FRANK l\IACPHERSON Sl\IITH
Grand Master 1941 - 1942

Frank Macpherson Smith, se.venty-fifth Grand Master of Masons in
California, was born in Rock Island, Illinois, April 1, 1894, of American
parentage. The family removed to California in 1902, and Frank received
his education in the public schools of the City of Los Angeles, and the
University of Southern California. He received the degree of LL.B. from
the· Law School of the University of Southern California in 1917, and was
thereupon admitted to the practice of law.
In 1917 he entered the service of the United States Army and served
with the American Expeditionary Forces. When serving as first sergeant
in Company " B," 364th Infantry, in France, he was seriously wounded in
action, for which meritorious service he was cited and decorated with the
Order of the Purple Heart. He was honorably discharged from the American Army in 1919.
On ' his return to civil life he at once became active in the practice of
law in San Francisco, California, until 1922, when he returl).ed to Los
Angeles and engaged in his profession until his appointment to the Municipal Bench in 1931. In 1933 he was unanimously chosen presiding judge
of that court and in the same year was appointed judge of the Superior
Court, He was elected to that office in 1934 and re-elected in 1940, at the
primaries in each instance. He has served on the Judicial Council from
1931 to date, representing the Municipal Courts of the State of California
from 19'31 to 1933 and the Superior Courts from 1933 to date.
Judge Smith is a member of the American Legion, 91st Division Post;
of Delta Chi, Delta Theta Phi, and Skull and Dagger (U. S. C.) fraternities;
and is a member of the Alumni Association of the University of Southern
California; and for many years a director of the Midnight Mission of
Los Angeles.
Judge Smith was married in 1919 to Miss Eunice Richards, of Seattle,
Washington. They have a daughter, Barbara Jane, who graauated this
year from the University of Southern California, with the degree of A.B.,
and is now continuing her study for her A.M. degree, and a son, Richards
Macpherson Smith , now age 13.

FRANK MACPHERSON SMITH
Grand Master
1941

Freemasonry has had a large claim upon the time and thought of our
retiring Grand Master. He was made a Mason in 1922 in Argonne Lodge
No. 514, at San Francisco, California, demitted to East Gate Lodge No. 290
at Los Angeles in April, 1926, and was its Master in 1933. He served as a
member of the Los Angeles Board of Relief from 1931 to 1938 and was its
chairman in 1937 and 1938. He was president of the Southern California
Past Masters Association in 1938 ; was Secretary of the Masonic Homes
Endowment Board in 1934 and 1935, and chairman from 1936 until he was
installed as Grand Master. He received the Scottish Rite degrees in the
class of July 8, 1932, and was honored with the decoration of Knight Com-

mander of the Court of Honor in 1939. He is a member of Al Malaikah
Temple of the Shrine.
The foregoing · record briefly indicates the successful and honorable
career of our brother, so full of outstanding accomplishments. His wonderful exemplification of the true Masonic creed has been an inspiration to
all who have been privileged to work with him. His advice has always been
sound and sage.
May the coming years bring him additional good fortune and may he
long continue to serve in the great cause of Masonry.

~ranb JLobge of <traltfornia
I, LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of the M.' .W.' .Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby certify that
the following pages contain a true and faithful trans~ript of the proceedings of
that body at its ninety-second Annual Communication, commenced at the city of
San Francisco, on Tuesday, the 13th day of October, A. L. 5942, and terminated
on Friday the 16th day of October, A. L. 5942.

Jln ~esttmonp ~bereof
I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed the
seal of the Grand Lodge of the
jurisdiction of

California, at the

office of the Grand Secretary, this
thirtieth day of

October, in the

)"ear of Light, five thousand nine
hundred and forty-two.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M: . .w:. GRAND LODGE
0 1'

jfree anb ~ccepteb .ifflasons·
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Ninety-third Annual ·communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF .SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 13, A. D. 1942, A. L. 5942
AND TERMINATI NG ON

Friday, October 16, A. D. 1942, A. L. 5942

SAN FRANCISCO
A. F . Heuer, Printer, 330 Jackson Street
1942

GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree anb ~ccepteb ma~on~
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

NINETY-THIRD ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free' and Accepted
Masons of the J urisdiction of California commenced its ninetythird Annual Communication in the Masone Temple, Van Ness
Avenue and Oak Street, San Francisco, on Tuesday, October·
13, A. L. 5942, at 10 :00 o'clock a. m .
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
Officers of Grand Lodge
M. ·. W. ·.FRANK M. SMITH ....... , .................... ........................................ Grand Master
R.' , w.·. LESLIE E. WooD ..........................................................Deputy Grand Master
R:. W:. CLAUDE H. MoRRJSON ...._... :........................................Senior Grand Warden
R.'. W:. GILBERT C. DEFOREST...................... ~ .. ...................... Junior Grand Warden
v.·. w.·. LLOYD E. WILSON ..........~ ..................................................... Grand Secretary
v.·. w:. CHESTER H. WARLOW ............................................................ Grand Lecturer
V. ·.REV. W. BERTRAND STEVENS .......................................................... Grand Chaplain
w.·. LAWRENCE c. KELLEY................................................................. Grand Orator
W:. HENRy D. 0LIPHANT ........................................ Assistant Grand Secretary
w.·. }AMES K. FISK ........................................................................ Grand Marshal
w.·. ALEX D. POTTs .......................................................... Grand Standard·Bearer
W. ·.FREDERICK W. MoRRIS ................................................ Grand Sword Bearer
W:. EDWARD LEE STEPHENS .................... :............................. Grand Bible Bearer
W. ·.HARRY E. LINDERSMITH ............................................ Senior Grand Deacon
w.·. }AMES HURST.......... ..................................................... .Junior Grand Deacon
w.·. GLEN HoLMES ........................................................... .Junior Grand Steward
w.·. LESLIE VICTOR HUGHES .................................................... Grand P1trsuivant
w.·. CHARLES E. ANDERSON ............ .............................................. Grand Organist
w.·. RALPH K. MARSHALL .................................................................. Grand Tiler

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Masters

corned at the Altar by the Most Worshipful Grand Master, were
escorted by him to seats in the East:

M:. w:. DANA R. WELLER

M:. w:. FRANCIS v. KEESLING

M:. w:. WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
M:. w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M:. w:. SAMUELE. BURKE
M:. w:. ARTHUR s. CRITES
M:. w:. GEORGE L. Jo~Es
M:. w:. WILL H. FISCHER
M:. w:. CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
M:. W:. ]oHN STEWART Ross

M:. w:. ROBERT B. GAYLORD
M:. w:. FRANK w. MIXTER
M:. w:. ]AMES B. GIST
M:. w:. RANDOLPH v. WHITING
M:. w:. EARL WARREN
M:. w:. ROLLIE w. MILLER
M:. W:. J. T. FRASER
M:. w:. LEON 0. WHITSELL
M:. w:. WM. B. OGDEN
M:. W:. LLOYD E. WILSON ·

And 1368 officers and representatives from · 553 chartered
Lodges.
The Most Worshipful Grand Master announced the following appointments pro tempore: \Vorshipful Wm. T. Osterholt,
as Grand Treasurer; Worshipful Glenn Holmes, Junior Grand
Steward, as Senior Grand Steward; and Worshipful Thomas A.
Dille, as Junior Grand Steward.
And the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in
Ample ·Form.
Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams, at the .request
of the Very Worshipful William P. Filmer, Grand Treasurer,
conveyed the regrets of the latter at his inability to attend and
also delivered the earnest fraternal greetings and good wishes
which Brother Filmer had asked to have extended to the members present.
By order of the Grand Master the Grand Marshal presented
the Flag of our Country and it was placed in the East.
The Grand Master called the attention of the brethren to
the presence of Worshipful Alexander Douglas Potts who had
arrived on Monday, October 12th, by qipper from Honolulu
~.mder special priority granted by the United States :t\ avy.
The Grand Secretary read the fraternal greetings as received
by telegraph from Most Worshipful W. J. Stedman, Grand Ma~­
ter of Washington, in which Brother Stedman expressed his
regret at not being able to attend.
The Grand Secretary also read the letter of fraternal greetings received from the Grand Lodge of Canada in Ontario.
Distinguished Guests
The following distinguished guests were then separately
received with Grand Honors and after being appropriately we!-

9

M.". w:. Asa W. Hankerson, Past Grand Master of Washington.
M:. W:. Joseph A. E. Ivey, Grand Master of Arizona.
M:. w:. Wm. C. Watson, Grand Master of Nevada.
M:. W:. Clarence E. Phillips, Gra~d Master of Oregon.
Brother John W. Shenk, Past Master South Pasadena Lodge N.o. 367,
and Jesse W. t:urtis, Past Master of Phoenix Lodge N.o. 178, Justices of
the Sµpreme Court of the State of California.

Devotional Services
An inspiring devotional service was conducted by the Very
Reverend Grand Chaplain, the Right Rev. W. Bertrand Stevens,
who chose as his subject, "The Uses of Adversity."
"The Lord's Prayer" . . . . . . . . . . . .
Edwin Imhaus, Tenor Soloist

.

The Choir

The Uses of Adversity
Address by RT. REv. W. BERTRAND STEVENS, Grand Chaplain

My Brethren of Grand Lodge:
To symbolize and to fix our minds upon the thought which I shall discuss this morning 0 I shall picture an incident in the life of the fouµder of
Christianity where He is about to enter the city of Jerusalem in great triumph
and glory, the one time in His life when He was proclaimed .as king. Th~re
was tragedy about it, because as He surveyed the city from ~1s vantage pomt
of the wheat fields and the olive groves, He wept over 1t because there
seemed something definitely lacking in the faith of a city that would reject
the truths of God. When ultimately there was in Jerusalem starvation and
imprisonment, it was a spectaC!e that was a kin~ of foreshadowing ~nd
illustration of what can happen to the world when 1t goes mad, of the kmd
of viciousness that we see today in the world. And as I suppose as He
looked over that city the thought passed through His mind that perhaps
after all it was not worth dying for. Why sacrifice himself for a community
. that did ·not care; why die on the cross for a world that was about to go
mad ? Why not go to some quiet little place and live out His life in comparative security, according to the length of the days of a man's life. W?y pot
give it all up? But He knew that that could not be and He set His face
toward Jerusalem. My subject might be called "Tht! Uses of Adversity,''
or, if I were to give it a somewhat negative title, I might call it "The
Futility of Escapism." We desire to escape the difficulties and sufferings
that come up again and again, anew and anew, and particularly so when
we see about us the kind of bestiality, the kind of brutality that is rife in
the world today.
It is the isolationist spirit. "Well, the difficulties are not mine. ' Why
should we worry? Why not attend to our own affairs? We shall weep
over Jerusalem but it is. not .up to us to do anything about it." The difficulty there is that the isolationist is always caught up with by history,
and whether he likes it or not, he finds himself in the midst of practical
difficulties from which there is no escape.

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
The;e. is a~other group whose convictions will not allow them to share
in the d1ff1cult1es that the world is facing. "We are men of business· we
are ~e~ of go.od will, ~nd so we wish to go on about our business." A~ain,
the. d1ff1?ulty 1s that h1s~ory :i-lways catches up with the pacifist, unless the
pacifist .1s of. th~t pecuh~r kind such as the Quaker, who is a pacifist but
not an 1sol~tiom.st. He 1~ not an escapist, because the peculiar quality of
the Qua~er s. ph1l?sophy 1s that although he does not fight, he goes where
the fighting 1s thickest, where the difficulties are greatest.
Most of us as individuals have the escapist philosophy. It seems to
some
us, pe~haps those of us who have passed 50, that we have outlived
the period of history for which we were educated and would like to escape.
If only somehow ~e c~mld ret~re from business and avoid all of the unpleas~ntness and co~phcat10n of hfe. We haven't the courage, we feel, to face
increased taxation and increased questionnaires and increased cost of living
·~nd. all the rest. We would rather give up. And yet there is no escaping
in life. You may remember the old saint in Christian history, Jerome, who
thought he could escape and took himself off to the desert to avoid the
tem~tatio~s o.f the flesh but there he found the temptations of the flesh
assailed him Just the same. There is no escape from life. Its difficulties
have to ~e f~ced. History moves on, and. we may not like its developments
but our Job IS to adapt ourselves to its changes and t.o do the tasks that
~re assi!S~ed to us. Those tasks sometimes are hard. They become increasingly ~1ff1cul.t, an~ I s.uppose th~t ev~n now with all that we are facing,
we can t begin to imagine or to visualize the sorrow and pain and bereavement, the sense of loss which will dominate the hearts and minds of men
and women within the next year. We have an inkling of what it will be
~nd it does seem important to me, not only as a minister of religion, but
important to me as a Mason, that in our hearts in our approach to life
there may be that kind of courage, that kind of ~teadfastness that kind of
uprightness that will help not only us, but the people about ds to face life
as it comes, to accept its bitterest cups, to bend our backs to' its heaviest
loads. It is only thus that we can really attain to self-realization.
I have often wondered what kind of a person would be created by a
process of ?urture that :vould protect a child from its very earliest years,
fro~ all pain, from all disappointment, from all suffering, the kind of protect10n that would give ·that child everything that it wants and allow it to
grow up thus to maturity. My guess would be that child would be an
insufferable litle prig, that that child, grown to manhood would not be
fit to live with, because he would have had none of that self-discipline that
com~s thro~gh pai.n, the kin.d of pain. that is symbolized, perhaps, by the
physical pain of birth, that 1s symbolized by efforts of a man to write a
great book or paint a great picture, the kind of a pain that exists in the ·
lives of all of us as we grow up, having the bitter and the sweet, the
pleasant and the unpleasant. Through pain we realize our best lives.
Through pain we grow.

o!

. ~ ha~ a frie.nd .who :was totally. blind and he had a very responsible
position in the city )n which I then hved. He was very much admired and
very much respected. I was up in a neighboring city after I had known
him f<;>r a year or two, and I met his sister quite accidentally. She said,
"Do Y?U know my brother Otto?" I said, "Yes, I know him very well
and think very highly of him but," I said, "what a pity that he lost his
eyesight." She said, "You may think it strange when I tell you that we
in the family ·never considered it so unfortunate when he became blind
because up to the time he lost his eyesight he was of no use to himself
or anybody else; and the pain of los.ing his sight made a man of him."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11

Now, in some such fashion all of us, by facing the disa;pointments of
Jerusalem, achieve a very mu'ch greater gift of sympathy and understanding. If we have never known the hard things; if we have never known
disappointment, it is very difficult to enter into the sorrows of other
people. ·
I remember how I felt as a very young minister, when I had to visit
people in sorrow. I was aware all of the time that the pain that they were
suffering was not really shared by me, because I never had experienced it
myself. A woman of my acquaintance grew up as the child of a widowed
mother with a very beautiful sister .. This friend of mine was probably just
about as plain as a woman can be. Her mother said to her, "There are two
things that you can do as you grow up. You.can be hard and bitter because
you haven't the beauty of your sister, or you can face the fact that you
aren't beautiful, as one of the things in life that are yours to carry, and you
can develop your gifts of sympathy and understanding. You can develop
your gift of music." And being a very wise girl, she did· just that kind of
thing. Now she is a woman I suppose of 70 who has gone through life
beloved as few people are beloved, because she has faced the bitter things
of life, and through the bitter things of life, she has become a woman
beloved by all.
Then, last of all, I think it is through facing the sadness of life and
all of its pains and disappointments that we arrive at an understanding of
the meaning of religion. I mean first of all, religion in its larger sense, or,
if you choose, religion in its specific aspects, the religion of service, the
religion of sacrifice. "Greater love hath no man ·than this: That a man
lay down his life for his friends." It is the kind of religion which is not
merely doing things in the way of ceremonial or by the use of programs,
but that kind of religion which goes to the heart; it is the willingness of a
man, if necessary, to die for another. Through the hard things we learn
something of the meaning of God. God puts us into this world with a gift
of free will to choose for ourselves. Because we have the gift of choice,
some of us may choose unwisely. There is pain, there is sadness of heart,
there is suffering, but God in His Heaven remains as a God of love; an,d
perhaps it is that, far beyond anything else, that we Masons have to proclaim. Not only that it is necessary to sacrifice a little more, not only that
it is necessary to enlist and to fight the war, but that there is a God above
who knows and who loves and who cares, and when we go down into the
pit of deep suffering, we will know that God is there.
One last illustration, Most Worshipful, and I am done. One of the
great inspirations of this war, to me, has been a little obscure Chinese
clergyman, the Rev. Newton Tsiang, driven out of his home by cruel
Japanese invaders who forced him to walk 300 miles with his wife and
seven small sons up and down hills-hills so high that th.e y were really
mountains-across streams sometimes so wide that they were really rivers,
night and day, sleeping out at night except on those few occasions when
former pupils of Mr. Tsiang would invite them in to spend the night.
Going on and on and on, never complaining, never worrying, never turning
back, facing the hardships as if they were entering the heavenly Jerusalem
itself. As they came to the Yellow Mountain they looked up, and Mr.
Tsiang gathered his wife and his seven small sons around him, and homeless and footsore, together they sang a great hymn to the goodness of
God, that God in His love and goodness had brought them to so beautiful
a place to sing His everlasting praise.
"Our Refuge and Strength" .

Choir and Organ

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

0

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
Breth1·en of the Grand Lodge:
Again the sands of time have run their course, marking the passing
of another Masonic year. Again we are assembled in annual communication, to review our accomplishments as men and Masons during the past
twelve months. Today I return to you the powers, authority and responsibilities with which you entrusted me a year ago. In doing so may I say
to you, with humble heart, that perhaps no individual Grand Master has
had greater opportunity to serve his brethren and mankind generally than
the disturbed conditions of the world have brought to me during my term
of office.
During the early months of this Masonic year, our country was thrown
into a devastating war, which already has brought grief and suffering into
many of our homes. Since that fateful day of Sunday, December 7, 1941,
I have striven sedulously to utilize the influences of our great fraternity
for the common good of our nation and of our brethren who are fightin~
for it and for all it represents. I have sought to bring relief where ·needed,
and courage to those whose hearts have been torn; to impress upon our
membership the obligation to stand firm, to the end that we may be able
to continue as a free and independent people.
·
How successfully I have utilized the golden opportunity that was given
to me, or how ineffectually I have administered your affairs, is for you to
judge. In keeping with our Constitution, I am presenting, for your thoug htful consideration, my written message, in which are set forth my official
acts within the jurisdiction during the past year, together with such recommendations on legislation as appear expedient and necessary for the craft
at this time.
This 93rd Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California
finds our nation in the midst of the most destructive war in history. It is
fitting that, in this message, I discuss some of the implications of this
war, with its threat of violence to our institutions and to Freemasonry.
Fortunate are we that we inherit from the founders of our Republic a
land free from the depravity of dictatorships, the brutalities of feudalism,
the horrors of inquisitorial government, the serfdom of absolutism, the
shame of casteism. Wise, indeed, were the founding fathers in that they
were able properly to appraise the workings of all past and then existing
·governments of the world, and thus could avoid, in their pattern for the
new, the inequalities and prejudices of the old. In calm and deliberate
retrospect they scanned the pages of history, and cast aside as unworthy
those forms of government under which mankind had suffered injustice
and oppression.
Clearly, they saw, a new pattern was necessary, a new relationship
among men, a new design for a new world, a charter that would embody
what was good within the old, with the purpose and vision of the new.
Fortunate it was that the founders were endowed with the fortitude and
courage to fight their way through uncharted seas and to emerge in the
. new land with new hopes and realizations for all peoples. Devoutly
thankful should we be for the divine insight of our fathers who, in carving
out a new rration, also carved out a new pattern of government, a strange,
new pattern that contained the. theory that all men were created equal,
that they were endowed with ci::rtain inalienable rights, that government
should be maintained ·oniy ·with · the consent of the governed. A theory,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA •

13

yes, but a workable one. Workable, because it embodied the principles
and doctrines of, first, the Declaration of Independence and, second, the
Constitution of the United States. Workable, because the immortal document establishing justice, insuring domestic tranquility, promoting the
general welfare, and providing the blessings of liberty was a stepping
stone from the un~ertainties of the past to the broad a nd g lorious vision
of a perfect union of free and independent states inhabite·d by a free and
independent people.
But now again, the ruthless hands of ignorance, treachery and
duplicity, of hordes controlled by murderous gangsters, with their announced aim the utter destruction of the "decayed corpse of democracy,"
are rampant upon the face of the earth. And, again, for the liberation of
mankind, it has become our consecrated duty, as citizens and as Masons,
to give all that is in us to give toward defeat of the sinister forces that
seek to enslave the world. As of this date, 3602 members of the Masonic
fraternity of this Grand Jurisdiction (a list of their names and respective
Lodges you will find attach.e d hereto a nd made a part of this message)
have gone into the armed forces of our beloved country and from those
of us who are denied that opportunity gqes heartfelt. acknowledgment of
their patriotism, with faith in the future and with assurance that the
synonymous principles of democracy and Masonry will surely triumph.
This Grand Jurisdiction is in a peaceful and prosperous condition
but members of the craft realize fully that neither a nation at war, nor
any of its citizens, may wander aimlessly along the highways and byways
of thought and action. War, unfortunately, seems to have become a definite
part of man's life. During the last 3400 years there have been only 227
years of world peace. Yet, after each of 8000 wars, "peace" treaties were
signed. Since 500 B. C. 902 of those 8000 wars were major wars-and
World War I was eight times more devastating than the other 901 combined. Since 1918, which marked the close of World War I, seventeen ·
wars have been waged, with an estimated cost in lives of 2,500,000 and
a money cost of $10,000,000,000.
When, on December 7, 1941. the attack was made which involved the
beautiful outposts of the Pacific, eight of the 582 Lodges of this Grand.
Jurisdiction were and now are located in two Masonic districts of the.
Hawaiian Islands. One of these, the 102nd Masonic district, of which.
Brother Charles A. Sheperd is Inspector, contains the following Lodges:
Kilauea No. 330 at Hilo ; Maui No. 472 at Kahului; Kauai No. 589 at
Lihue, Kauai. The other, the 103rd Masonic district, with Brother Alexander Douglas Potts as Inspector, has these Lodges : Hawaiian No. 21,
le Progres de l' Oceanie N.o. 371, Honolulu No. 409, and Pearl Harbor
No. 598, all located in Honolulu, and Schofield No. 443 at Schofield Barracks, Leilihua.
·
The affair of December 7th occurred while an itinerary for official
visitations and receptions was in course of preparation by me. Realizing
the gravity of the situation, and that it was necessary to continue as usual
so far as the rights of free men were concerned, I issued a proclamation
as of December 16, 1941, addressed to the brethren of the jurisdiction
•
which reads as follows:

14

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PROCLAMATION
To Be Read in Full at the Stated Meeting Next Following Its Receipt
To the Brethren of the J uFisdiction:
The Axis powers have again acted with the treachery and
duplicity which have characterized their every move-before and
since their unholy alliance.
Beginning with the invasion of China by the war lords of
Japan, and culminating in the infamous attack on Hawaii, honorable practices and customs between nations have been abandoned
for the actions of barbarians.
In between China and Hawaii lie the heel-marks of savage
beasts, implanting on fair and peaceable lands the temporary
imprint of their goose-stepping hordes. The rape of Ethiopia and
the stab-in-the-back of France by Mussolini-enslaved Italy, the
assassination of Czechoslovakia, Poland, The Netherlands, Norway, Greece, J ugoslavia and many others, by the lust and rapacity
of a nation controlled by murderous gangsters.
·
In between China and Hawaii are incalculable deceits and
duplicities-incredible brutalities and cruelties, deliberate obliteration of civilization's cherished outposts, cunning and fraud practiced upon a world-wide scale-all perpetrated and put into force
by the "Master Race" of the Nazis. Their announced aim, the
utter destruction of the "decayed corpse of democracy."

And now that the challenge has been flung-and immediately
accepted-all the energies, all the power of our democracy, so hated
and contemptuously flouted by the "Master Class" and the Samurai
of the world, will be marshaled toward the final victory-certain
and assured.
But between this day and that certain day of the future when
the forces of democracy throw open the gate of liberation for all
mankind, much must be done. It shall be our proud and eager
duty, both as Americans and as Masons, to don the garments of
work, of sacrifice and of iron determination.
Behind our Commander-in-Chief, in the solid ranks of a
united and virile nation, it has become our consecrated duty to
carry out his orders and to allow nothing tu interfere with our
sacred obligations as citizens and as Masons.
In furtherance of these obligations, I urge every craftsman
residing within the jurisdiction to render that service for God and
country, and to rededicate themselves to the high principles and
purposes of our government. In all things, in every action, I
strongly urge that staunchness of spirit, that eagerness to serve,
that has characterized every generation of Americans from the
birth of the Revolution to the present day.

Obey, implicitly, the orders of those in command; pursue
religiously the allotted daily tasks; cheerfully and gratefully accept
the extra hours imposed by, and dedicated to, the war effort;
volunteer; whenever and wherever possible, extra service to the
national cause, and, finally, contribute to the limit of ability and
fortune, to the programs reflecting the national will to complete
victory.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

15

This is my earnest prayer and prediction; that Masons of the
jurisdiction will not be found wanting during the national crisis,
and that they will further prove, as in the years past, their complete realization and appreciation of the sacred privileges of
citizenship.
Our freedom, together with that of the entire civilized world,
depends upon our united efforts. I have every confidence in the
outcome and the patriotic allegiance of my fellow craftsmen of
California.
Fraternally and sincerely,
FRANK M. SMITH, Grand Master.
Dated at San Francisco, California, December 16, 1941.
Attest: Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary.
This proclamation of December 16, 1941, thoroughly covered the
situation in which we found ourselves at that time and I can say in all
sincerity that the recommendations made in it have been carried out in
their entirety. All of our Lodges have adjusted themselves to the circumstances of the war, even to the extent that their own affairs are being
interrupted. Nevertheless, the Lodges have been able to show an increase
in work accomplished and a gain in membership, as well as attainment
of an even better financial status. All of our 582 Lodges meet as usual
and carry nn the affairs of 'Masonry, as well as perform their part in the
war effort. We must keep in mi'nd that, with the tree of liberty so deeoly
rooted in Freemasonry, and in. the American as an individual, we cannot
fail in all-out support of the war program, so that liberty may be preserved.
Necrology
In the forefront of the struggle for the survival of human freedom,
members of the Masonic fraternity have offered their lives unstintedly.
Deaths among our brethren have been heavy. It is impossible at this time
to state definitely how .many have given the last full measure of devotion
to our country and to preservation o.f its institutions. We shall have to
await further revelations of tlie casualties that have been incurred and
which will continue until the final and inevitable defeat of the forces of
tyranny and aggression.
One of the outstanding losses of our brotherhood was the recent death
in line of duty of the Duke of Kent, Grand Master of the United Grand
Lodge of England. The Grand Lodge of California always has felt particularly close to the United Grand Lodge of England, which has . bestowed
many honors upon officers of our Grand Lodge. In this connection, I was
privileged to send to the Grand Secretary of the United Grand Lodge of
England, on August 24, this cable message:
·
''The brethren, member Lodges and officers of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California,
extend their sincere sympathy to the United Grand Lodge of
England on the death of His Royal Highness the Duke of Kent,
Grand Master.
"Frank M. Smith, Grand Master."

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

Apart from the victims of war's havoc, the ranks of our fraternity
have suffered deaths from natural causes, inherent in life's uncertainties.
Many of these brethren were capable and efficient officers and members
of our Grand Lodge, whose passing has been not only a personal grief
but a distinct loss to the jurisdiction. To the families of these we tender
all that we have of sincere sympathy. At an appropriate time our Committee on Necrology will make a report giving names and details.

at our Lodges, when they are desirous of and at liberty to avail themselves of it. As for direct relief to brethren in the armed forces, that is
not, in general, an immediate problem, but whenever a nd whatever it is
-as in hospital cases- it must be met.
The· matter of assistance-relief to wives and children-and to those
who may become widows and orphans-may in time become acute. Meanwhile, wherever in these cases there arises a need that is directly attributable
to the war, we must be prepared to give a helping hand until the home
Lodge can be reached and takes over the privilege of serving.

16

· Masonic War Relief Fund
• Realizing, as we all do, that the war that has been forced upon our
nation is an all-out war, that women and children are not escaping its
sufferings, I caused to be issued on February 14, 1942, a proclamation
establishing the Masonic War Relief Fund and appointed a committee to
raise the fund throughout the jurisdiction. Text of this proclamation is
given at the end of this summary of the reasons which prompted it.
Necessity of establishing the fund arose out of the needs of Masons
in the armed forces and the prospective needs of their families-wives and.
children, widows and orphans. During World War I, out of a membership
·of 63,986, there were 5349 California Masons in the uniform of this country:
and 111 of them made the supreme sacrifice. A service fund of $67,610.29
was raised in California at that time . by voluntary contributions to meet
the needs of Masons and their families, from all parts of the world,
attributable directly to the war.
In the present "War for Survival" in which we are engaged, California
Lodges have a Masonic member ship of 126,306-nearly double the membership of 24 years ago. It is reasonable to expect, therefore, that there
will be 10,000 or more California Masons in service before final victory
is achieved. Just what emergendes and causes for service may arise in
the meantime, it is, of course, impossible to forecast, but already many
needs have come into existence, and that these will continue increasingly
is inevitable. To meet them we must be prepared financially, and it is
for this purpose that the fund is being gathered against the day of possible
distress.
·

How Fund Is Being Used
While it is not practicable to specify in advance all the purposes for
which the fund ultimately will be en;iployed its main objectives may be
outlined. In considering these objectives, we must keep in mind various
conditions which affect them and which govern application of the fund
to the various needs. California, being in a "combat zone," is the site of
~cores of Army camps, air fields, Naval stations and general military
establishments, to which thousands of Masons from every state of the
Union are being and will continue to be assigned. These brethren of ours
want fellowship with us in our Lodges and we, on our part, want to know
them and to show them hospitality.. Lodge programs must be expanded
to welcotne them and everything done to make the visiting brethren feel
at home and to have the utmost of enjoyment in their short leaves of
~bsence from the rigors of war-time service.
The expense of such expanded programs is more than many of the
Lodges near to military and naval establishments can reasonably bear.
The fund which we are now engaged ·in raising provides a source of
assistance. Let me emphasize in this connection that there is no duplication whatever of any other service hospitality program, either by U. S. 0.
units or other service centers. Ours is an extra service to our brethren,

Applications for assistance from the War Relief Fund are made to
the Grand Master, with the understanding that the fund is not intended
to be used for regular relief services of our Lodges, but only for what are
designated as "war cases" or "war-connected cases." A com?lete reco:d
of every California Mason in service is in course of preparation and will
be on file in the Grand Lodge office. The cost of printing the record forms,
and keeping the recor d up to date, is a proper charge on the Relief Fund.
Also from this fund there are being provided special "Certificates of
Ser~ice," handsomely printed, signed by the Grand Master and the Gr.and

Secretary, impressed with the seal of the Grand Lodge an d enclose.d m .a
celluloid folder. One of these certificat es is presented to every California
Mason in the nation's service. The certificate serves not only to identify
him but also to commend him to the kind care, love and protection of all
Masons everywhere.
How Fund Is Being Raised
It was and is my earnest desire that the Relief Fund represent the
free-will offering of the brethren. It is believed that voluntary contributions
by individuals give to the contributor a gratifying sense of personal participation in the relief effort. For years we have heard men ask, "What is
Masonry doing in these times? What can I do?" A part of the answer is
made through this fund, for it does provide opportunity for every Mason
in the jurisdiction to do something helpful in a united Masonic effort for
his brother Mason. I ruled that Lodge donations, taken from Lodge funds,
may not be made to the War Relief F und, which must be kept on the
individual, voluntary-contribution basis th at has been outlined.
Lodge secretaries have been urged to report in detail all factual information they may have concerning brethren in the armed forces. Eighteen
Boards of Relief in California have been furnished a bank account in the
form of a revolving fund of $500 each; the two Superintendents of Masonic
Homes in California a like amount, and the brethren in the Hawaiian
Islands and their dependencies a similar revolving fund of $1000. As some
of our brethren are in far distant lands and other jurisdictions, we have
asked Grand Jurisdictions throughout the United States and in many
foreign countries to assist us in this work of brother~y love, r elief and
truth. To date, as a result of this appeal, a like revolving fund has been
placed at the disposal of every Grand J urisdiction in our o"'.n. land, and
also in Western Australia, Eastern Australia, New Zealand, Bnt1sh Columbia, Nova Scotia, North ern Ireland, England and Scotland.

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CA,LIFORNIA

Text of the proclamation of February 14 1942 establishing this fund,
to which reference was made earlier, follows:'
'
PROCLAMATION
Masonic War Relief Fund
To the Masters of the Several Lodges of This Jurisdiction:
Worshipful Brethren:
In order to create an emergency fund designed to alleviate distress
and to assist service members and their families during the national crisis
I have appointed a committee to raise such a fund through the jurisdictio~
as a portion of our patriotic contribution.
This fund will be known as the "Masonic War Relief Fund'; and the
committee will be known as the "Masonic Wa~ Relief Fund Committee."
The general chairman of this committee will be the Honorable Earl Warren, Past Grand Master and Attorney General of California. The executive
vice-chairm'\n will be Henry C. Clausen, Past Grand Orator. William P.
Filmer, Past Grand Master and Grand Treasurer, will serve as treasurer
of this fund and Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary, will serve as secretary.
To serve under the leadership of these men I have appointed the
following brethren :
Chas. Albert Adams
Alden Anderson
Ernest G. Bashor
Harry J. Bauer
Rainsford W. Belding
Harry W. Bessac
Eugene W. Biscailuz
Reynold E. Blight
Edgar A. Bowman
Harry Chandler
C. S. Chapman
Luke Conrad
Walter Cougle
Wesley C. Crandall
Arthur P . Crim
A rthur S. Crites
James S. Dean
Merrick E . Dearborn
Gilbert C. DeForest
Louis C. Drapeau
Thomas W. Eckford
Will H . Fischer
James K. Fiske

Ralph M. Foote
James T. Fraser
Robert B. Gaylord
John W. Geeslin
John Gunsallus
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
C. B. Heryford
George L. Jones
Francis V. Keesling
Veirling K.e rsey
·
Otho B. Kissell
Oscar Lawler
Thomas F . Lewis
Harold C. Lloyd
Edmund A. Lockett
William H. Lorenz
G. E llsworth Meyer
Rollie W. Miller
Frank W. Mixter
Hugh D. Monc·ur
Claude H. Morrison
Oakley K. Morton
Earl R. Newton

Wm. B: Ogden
Martin Ortlieb
William D . Rodgers
John Stewart Ross
David W. Schick
John W. Shenk
Wesley K. Sibole
Clarendon T . Smith
L. E. C. Smith
Charles E. Sones
Bishop W . B. Stevens
Judge Gordon T hompson
Judge L. N. Turrentine
R. B. Von Kleinsmid
Harry S. Wanzer
Chester H . W arlow
Rev. Geo. A. Warmer
Dana R. Weller
Randolph V. Whiting
Leon 0 . Whitsell
Charles M . Wollenberg
Leslie E. Wood
Millard Young

An appeal is thus made to all craftsmen to assist to the limit of their
abilities in this· worthy cause. Contributions made to this fund will be on
a purely voluntary basis in keeping with the tenets and principles of
Freemasonry.

19

Our fighting forces must be backed and s uppor ted by the sacrifice and
loyalty of all, and I am convinced that this fund, creat ed and maintained
by the good-will and heart of the fraternity, will reflect the determination
of a free peopTe to remain free through the power and might of an aroused
democracy.
I am also convinced that every craftsman will want to add his name
and his offering, whether large or small, to this fund as he r ealizes the
priceless privilege of free and unrestrained giving in a land free of tyrannical control.
All members of the fraternity are urged to make their contributions
through Lodge secretaries for transmission to Grand Lodge, where the
fund may best be administered according to the needs and desires of those
serving us all in the armed forces of our beloved nation.
From time to time I shall address ·the craft further on this subject
and shall enlarge the committee as the expanding work requires.
F raternally and sincerely,
FRANK M. SMITH, Grand Master.
Attest : Lloyd E . W ilson, Grand Secretary.
To the chairman . of this committee, Honorable Earl Warren, Past
Grand Master, and to all the members of the committee on Masonic War
Relief Fund, I give the highest praise for t heir accomplishments in carrying out the purposes for which the committee was formed. As of October 6 the sum of $80,460.92 has been contributed to the War Relief Fl!nd.
This amount has been contributed by approximately 30,500 members of
531 Lodges. There have been 173 Lodges of this number which have sent
in their full quota of $1.00 per member and many of them have gone far
beyond that. There have been but 51 Lodges in the entire jurisdiction
which have made no r esponse whatever and it is hoped and believed that
these will participate in this program before the year is over.
War Service Committee
Allied with and similar in nature to the Masonic War Relief program
is that of the Masonic War Service Committee, which has been functioning
most helpfully under the chairmanship of Brother Mark A. Pierce, P ast
Master of Sunset Lodge No. 352. Objectives of this committee are to
keep our brethren on the battle fronts in touch with their brethren on
the home front; to let them know what we here are doing for the welfare
of their families, so that on their return they may be fully apprised of all
that has happened. while they have been away. Two worth-while and
necessary pieces of service have recently been undertaken by this committee. The first of these is a service to Masons and persons with Masonic
affiliation who arrive in San Francisco from other parts of t he world and
who 'need the service and assistance of their Masonic brethren. The War
Service Committee has arranged to have representatives of this Grand
Lodge meet these ships and to render whatever assistance may be required.
The second program recently inaugurated is to extend our M asonic service
to any Masons who may be in the Army or Naval hospitals in the state,
and this program will soon be expanded.

20

PROCLAMATION
Masonic War Service Committee

To ALL REGULAR, ANCIENT, FREE

To the Masters of the Several Lodges of This Jurisdiction:
Worshipful Brethren:

AND ACCEPTED MASONS

!T~lh"#:,.tf

Our brethren, in increasing numbers, are Jommg the armed forces of
the nation. They are thus demonstrating readiness to give "the last full
measure of devotion" to the end that "government of the people, by the
people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth," and to preserve
for each of us and for posterity the sacred and inalienable right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
On freedom's far-flung battle lines our brothers soon will be__:_in fact
already are-serving in every corner of the globe.
Between them and the "folks at home" it is our duty to maintain
communication, so far as possible and consistent with military requirements; to keep them in touch with Masonry, their families and friends,
and to assure them that we are looking forward to the great day when
their victorious return will be acclaimed.
To this end I hereby appoint a Special Grand Lodge Committee for
this jurisdiction, said committee to be known as "Masonic War Service
Committee." Brother Mark A. Pierce, Past Master of Sunset Lodge No.
352 of Los Angeles, is hereby appointed chairman; Matthew Morton, Jr.,
Past Master of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410 in Berkeley, is hereby
appointed executive vice-chairman; Past Grand Master, and now Grand
Secretary, Lloyd E. Wilson, will serve as secretary of said committee;
said committee will be for this entire jurisdiction, in order completely to
cover the jurisdiction in every respect. Each constituent Lodge is hereby
requested likewise to appoint a Masonic War Service Committee to
cooperate with the general state-wide committee, and for the Grand Lodge
Committee, the Lodge Committees, and their chairmen, I bespeak your
active and energetic cooperation.
Write to our brothers in the service; tell them that the hearts and
prayers of Masons whithersoever dispersed are with them; tell them of
the activities of the Lodge and give them the news about the families and
friends; tell them we are here to serve at their command, and to "keep
the home ·tires burning." All communications concerning this committee
and its activities are to be addressed to the' Grand Secretary, War Service
Committee, and every effort will be made to see that all messages come
through.
From time to time I shall address the craft on this subject and shall
enlarge the committee as the expandin'g work requires.
Fraternally and sincerely,
·FRANK M. SMITH, Grand Master.
Attest: Lloyd E . . Wilson, Grand Secretary.

21

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GREETINGS
"flf~-¥Jliat f!kth,.
.k.~~m..lk-Jide~

~--~~.,/t-.,M~~~+"'-~
~
~.,4.____.ut
-U..~~.~ilr~~Mk~
-AN1¥,aid~_,.4-..k-,fo;tii..M<~
---~~Ait,,~Ma~,o/./k.--Jfoc-.tf

,Ii- ~~,,,,~-.Ml~ ,,,,.d. . l k ./Jat,a/l~~J.'-~A#"''t~~rl<

rg,_-u,._,.Ja,,,t;,,aw1,lk~,o/.lk ~~at

.lk.eilf;;!llu. ~. ~·""

./

'*'

.9/.~f.9._ .9/.!£SL_

GRAND MAIT&ll

01\AND HCJllT•llY

THE SERIAL NUMBER OF
THIS CERTIFICATE IS

NE VARIETUR

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Certificates to Brethren in Service
One of the items in the distribution of our War Relief Fund, as noted
elsewhere, is the issuance of a certificate (pictured here) to each of our
brethren in the armed forces of the nation of whom the Grand Secretary
has a record. The certificate testifies to the fact that the holder is a member of the craft and commends him to the kind care and consideration
of all Master Masons, wheresoever dispersed. Issuance of these diplomas
was b·e gun in June, 1942, and accompanying each diploma was a letter,
signed by the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary, · which read as
follows:
Dear Sir and Honored Brother:
To you is given the privilege of service in the armed forces
of our beloved country, and from us, denied that opportunity, go
the heartfelt appreciation and acknowledgment of your patriotism.
Masonry is proud of you, and in thaf pride is a deep sense
of its responsibility to you and your comrades. Our duty to our
country is no less imperative than yours and, as we know your
service as citizen and Mason will be honorably rendered, our
efforts will be bent toward the achievement of a service no less
in sacrifice and idealism.
As our official recognition of your service, we are enclosing
herewith a diploma, which we trust you will use often and find
of much value. With it goes our pledge of full support and
cooperation and of our desire to be always of service to those
who serve us all.
With faith in the future and with the assurance that the
synonymous principles of democracy and Masonry will triumph fo~
the benefit of all mankind, and with warmest personal greetings,
Fraternally and sincerely yours,
FRANK M. SMITH, Grand Master.
Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary.
Of the many letters of appreciation that have been received from
the brethren in the service, to whom the diplomas with accotppanying
letters have been sent, the following is typical:
U. S. Naval Station
My Dear Brothers:
Your warm letter of greetings and pledges of support and
cooperation have brought to me great inspiration for the work on
which I am engaged.
In these times, which involve personal sacrifice and unrelaxed
effort, one realizes great strength {rom expressions such as yours.
Let me extend to you my congratulations for your continued
service to our country and my deepest appreciation of your words
of encouragement.
Fraternally yours,
Lieutenant Commander, U . S. N. R.
To date, there have been recorded in the Grand Secretary's office the
names of 3,602 members of the craft who are now in the armed forces.
A compl_ete record of each such member is kept in duplicate, one list being
alphabetical, the other numerical, and in addition there is a listing by

GRAND LODGE OF CA.LIFORNI'A

23

Lodges. War S~rvice Certifit:ates, handsomely printed in blue and gold,
bearing th.: serial number assigned by the _Grand Secretary to the member
m service, have been issued to the followmg brethren:
2674
CALIFORNIA No. 1
Clarence Emil Nagler Jr
Cert. No..
Army, Private
2817
1742
Edwin Alfred Pospisil
Ramon Francis Conlisk
Army, Private
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
3315
Robert Raymond Reichert
1723
Frederick Jam es Cooke
Army
Army, Major
2671
Edward William Rohlfing
1745
Cyrus King Dam
Army, Private
Army, Major
2669
K enneth Eugene Templeman
1747
Leonard Formosa
Army, Private
Army, Captain
2670
Jack Clerk West
2744
Emile Uazalis Generaux
Army
Navy, Lieut. Commander
2672
Horace Marcus Witbeck
1744
Harry Nichols Krenke!
Army,
Major
'
Army, Major
1748
Howard Morgan McKinley
BENICIA No. 5
Navy, Lieut. Commander
1695
Ralph
Le
Roy Bowerman
1741
Philip Patterson
Army, Major
Army First Lieutenant
1694
Vernon Harold Estey
1746
Theodo;e Frank. Schmidt
Army, Corporal
Army, Captain
1692
Floyd Jack Morse
1743
Lloyd Allan Scott
Army, Corporal
Navy, Lieutenant
1693
Charles Alexander Simpson
1724
Charles Edward Street Jr.
Army, Corporal
Army, Major Air Corps
WESTERN STAR No. 2
2657
Volney Clay Baker
·Army
2660
Frank S. Curren
Army, · Captain
2659
Ezra E. Erick
Army, Captain
2658
Ladd Graham
Army
2986
Morton J. Murphy
Army, Captain
TEHAMA No. 3
Vernon Roswell Askine Jr.
Army, Aviation Cadet
Carl Holbrook Aulick
Army, Major
Wayne C. Braden
Army
Russell William Buck
Army, Private
Robert Wjjjiam Klaiber
Army, Private
Algie Eugene Kunkle
Navy
Clifford Francis Mason
Navy, Lieut. J. G.
Eugene Victor McPoil Jr.
Army, Corporal
Herman Berrin Meyer
Army, Lieut. Colonel
Stanton Herbert Meyer
Army, Captain

2089
2675
3314
2090
2673
331'6
3313
2087
2088
2091

TUOLUMNE No. 8
Robert Augustus Ball
Army, Private
William Charles Coffill
Navy, Ensign
Andrew William Lepape
Army, Private F irst Class
Leo Linde
Coast Guard
Leland A. Miller
Army, Colonel
Roy J. Stookey
Navy
Donald Leroy Vars
Marine Corps
Lester Baker Woodhams
Army

102
268
103
2737
105
104
2738
1271

CORINTIDAN No. 9
2442
Raymond Emerson Burton
Army, Corporal
Robert Lucian Hamilton M. D. 2441
Army, Captain
2440
Norval Duane Hayes
Army, First Lieut.
2439
George Carroll Kylling
Army, Sergeant
2438
Austin Clifford Matheny
Army, Major
.
Benjamin Franklin Miller M. D. 2445
Army, Captain
2687
Stanley Ross Parkinson
Army, Captain

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

24
Clarence Harris Pease
Army, Captain
George Samuel Zelk
Navy

2444
2443

SAN JOSE No. 10
2333
Allen Sylvester Chaffee
Army, Private
William Andrew Davenport Jr. 1086
Army, Private
1088
Arthur Jessie
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
2711
Fleet James Montgomery
Army, Private
1085
Robert Henry Smith
Navy, Cadet
1084
Max Xaver Sparrer
. .Army, Private
1087
Roger Francis Turner
Army
YOUNT No. 12
Edwin Ralston Bishop
1680
Navy, Storekeeper
Raymond Myron Putnam
1953
Navy, Hospital App.
Robert Albert Thorpe
1678
Army, Private
Marshall Weimer
1681
Army, Private
David Bruce Williams
1954
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Joseph Lee Wright .
1 679
Navy, Machinist Mate First Class
NEVADA No. 13
John Sbaffi
481
Army, Staff Sergeant
TE MPLE N o. 14 .
Frank Edson Hahn
699
Marine Corps, Private
698
Harold Palmer Hansen
Navy, M. M. Mate Second Class
2931
Clarence Iven Randolph
Army, Private First Class
WASffiNGTON N o. 20
974
Robert Emmett Beauchamp
Army, Major
Robert Alvin Breuner
3186
Marine Corps, First Lieutenant
1784
Albert Sessum Brooks
Navy, Lieutenant
James Frederick Clausen
2793
Marine Air Foree, Captain
1246
Jack Erwin
Army, First Lieutenant
Lester Alexander · Fourness
975
Army, Technician, First Class
Wilbur Benjamin Gardner
1247
Army, Second Lieutenant

Charles Francis Going
2603
Army, Lieut. Colonel
Frank Keiper
977
Army, Captain
Nick Angelos Malos
978
Army, Private
Norman Powell
2795
Coast Guard, Yeoman Second Class
Robert Stephen Roduner
2988
Marine Corps
Howard Atkins Sowell
1412
Army, Private
John Porter Sumner
2792
Navy, B. M. Second Class
.
2794
George Wayne Taylor
Navy, Machinist's Mate
Russell Francis Thompson
976
Army, Major
HAWAI IAN No. Z1
Thomas Armon Burke
1785
Army, Private
Edward Crapo
2724
Army, Lieut. Colonel ·
James Louzada
1787
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Forest Edward Frost
1786
Navy
Gordon Bruce Hayes
2725
Army, First Lieutenant
Arthur Charles Hilliger
1789
Army, Captain
Harold Charles Hill
1788
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Charles Frederick House
1790
Navy
Frank Leicester James
2726
Army, Asst. Appraiser
Harvey Clayton Kelser
1791
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Joseph Palma
1792
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Gordon Cummins Ross
1793
Army, Colonel
1794
Clarence William Trexler
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Arnold Morgan Wheelock
1795
Navy, Photographer, First Class
Sanford Ballard Dole Wood
1796
Navy, Lieut. Commander
MADISON N o. 23
George Raymond Curtis
Army, Air Corps
Richard Adolph Holub
Army, Student Pilot
Robert William Kohler
Army, Private
Tom Legg
Navy
William NanKevius
Army, Corporal

892
897
893
894
895

Richard Edward Steele
Army, Sergeant
GEORGETOWN No. 25
Harry Thomas Carter
Army, Second Lieutenant

896

2318

EL DORADO N o. 26
1725
James Franklin Coutant
Army, Corporal
2733
Albert Winchell Frey
Navy, Hosp. Corps, First Class
142
Sam Brown Haskew
. Navy, Chief Machinist Mate
3036
Omer Martin McGee
Army, Private ·
2448
Charles William O'Melveny
Army, Captain Air Corps
2278
Clarence Oliver Williard
Army, Sergeant
TRINI T Y No. 'l:l
John Douglas Briggs
728
Army, Lieutenant
Don P. Creath
2570
Navy, Electrician's Mate
George Farrell Feldmiller
348
Army, Staff Sergeant
Walter Ernest. Glass
349
Army, Private
George Henry Goody
347
Army, Major, Air Corps
Hal Eugene Goodyear
2924
Navy, S. F. Const. Second Class
James Daniel Salmon
2571
Army, Chaplain First Lieutenant
Marvin Paulsen Goodyear
3430
Navy, C.C.M
Ivan Sack
3431
Navy, Lieut. J .G.
GOLDEN GATE N o. 30
Gerald Byron Ball
898
Army, Staff Sergeant
Vernon Earl Brant
1688
Army; Private
Charles Oliver Dowell .
899
Army, Master Sergeant
Claude Howard Jeans
3321
Coast Guard, Private
Clarence Arthur Lehman
1351
Army, Master Sergeant, Air Corps
Oliver Kuna Van Lupton
3419
Navy, Lieutenant
900
California Charles McMillan
Coast Guard, Captain
Raymond Francis Miller
3322
Army, Private
Charles James Rose
901
Marine Corps, First Sergeant
Andrew Roosevelt Shepard
2605
Army, Private

Winfield Adrian Witmer
Navy, Seaman First Class
GOLD H ILL No. 32
Lawrence Jarvis Berry
Army, Private
Carlin Clarence Coppin
Army, Cadet
Edward Alexander Grey Jr.
Army, Lieutenant

25
2629

2159
2157
2158

SAN DIEGO No. 35
1547
James Willard Ables
Navy, B. M., Second Class
1345
Julius Norbert B altrimas
Navy, Machinist's M., First Class
1751
Elijah Elliott Bartlett
Navy, C.Q.M .
2055
Parker Bernard B eek
Marine Corps, First Sergeant
Henry .Don Benefield
1752
Navy, Chief Gunner's Mate
Adolph Harry Beran
1753
Na'vy, Warrant Officer
3164
Samuel K. Bird
Army, Lieut. Colonel
2224
Harry Dale Bland
Army, First Lieu tenant
2646
Stanley Norman Cole
Navy, A.C.M.M.
3166
John Lynch Davis II
Army, Major
1754 .
Otis Marion Davis
Marine Corps, ·Sergeant Major
2026
Delmas Howard Dent on
Navy, C.C.M.
1350
Grover Max Diekman
Navy, Chief Radioman
1347
George Logan Edman
Navy, Lieutenant
2228
Orben Ellis
Navy, Chief Shipfitter
1548
Walter Joseph F ox
Navy, Water Tender First Class
3163
Archie Anatole Girard
Marine Corps, Gy. Sergeant
1755
Irving William Hale
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
2225
Curtis Hamilton
Navy, Ensign
2028
K eller Alvin Higbee
Navy, Ensign
1549
Russell Edwin Jackson
Navy, Machinist
1550
Peter Floyd Jones
Navy, Aviation Ch. Metalsmith
2223
John Henry Kriete
Navy, C. Ph. M.
1756
Claude Chester Lynch
Navy, Warrant Officer
2027
Homer Roy MaeNutt
Navy, C. M. First Class

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Victor Eugene Marriott
3162
Navy, Lieut. J. G.
Daniel Henry McGinley
1757
Navy, Chief Metalsmith
1349
Frank Miller
· Navy, Chief Quartermaster
Henry Commercial Miller
1551
Army, Captain
William Joseph Morgan
2226
Navy, Aviation Chief Mach. Mate
Archibald Luther Parmelee
1758
Army, Lieut. Colonel
George Dewey Peterson
3165
Navy, Chief Specialist
Malcolm E. Ramsey
2645
Navy, Pharmacist
John Nelson Randall
1346
Army, Warrant Officer (Major)
Edward Francis Ray
1759
Navy, C. E. M.
Christian Floyd Ross
1348
Navy, Chief Yeoman
Vernon A. Sample
3167
Navy, C. M. M.
Garre! Darlington Snyder
2024
Army, Captain
2229
Kenhelm Welburn Stott
Army, Major
Harry Martin Stone
2221
Navy, C. M. M.
Dewey Teague
1552
Navy, Metalsmith, First Class
Oscar Jasper Turner
2227
Navy, M. M., First Class
Ralph A. Vernacchia
2647
Army, Corporal
Vincent Oscar Waldeck
2644
Army, Captain
Bert Edward Ward
1760
Navy, Chief Storekeeper
George John Weber
1761
Navy, Chief Shipfitter
2222
Calvert Ellwood Williams
Navy, Chief Electrician's Mate
HOWARD No. 37
Joseph Roy Jones
Army, Major
Byron Milton Lewi"
Army, Sergeant
Robert Edwin Orr
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Lester Hiram Simon.son
Army, Sergeant
Ferdinand Charles Simmons
Army, Private
Charles Gwinn Tryor
Army, Captain
SANTA CRUZ No. 38
Carl Ansel Anson
Army, Private

2892
662
2285
664
66-3
661

2749

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNM

Aubrey Briggs
718
Army, Private
Lawrence Albert Cullom
714
Navy, Seaman
Earl Meredith Foster Jr.
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Roy Wilbur Fowler
717
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Thomas Jefferson Reynolds
719
Navy, Yeoman, Second Class
William Clarence Tooze
1665
Navy, Commander
James Gordon Walker
715
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Willett Ware Jr.
720
Army, First Lieutenant Air Corps
Alvin Leo Weymouth
716
Navy, Lieut. Commander
SACRAMENTO No. 40
John Randolph Davidson
1024
Army, First Lieutenant, Eng.
Edwin Alexander Fairbairn
1095
Army, First Lieutenant, A. C.
Herbert Gerald Hah:u
40
Army, Asst. Adj. General
Robert Lawrence Harkness
2122
Navy, Lieutenant, S. G.
Emil Carl Hasert
650
Army, Captain (Dent. Corps)
. 1783
George Washington Hunt
Army, First Lieutenant
John Alfred Ireland
781
Navy, Aviation Metalsmith
Harry Mitchell Kanner
573
Army, First Lieutenant
Robert Thadeus McClellan
2054
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Herbert James Oehler
2864
Army, Private
Robert Leon Peters
2863
Army, Private
Benjamin Franklin Quigley Jr. 570
Army, Captain
David Willis Roberts
2966
Navy, Seaman
William Valentine Schmelzel
3043
Army, Sergeant
Francis Waldo Spearman
569
Army, First Lieutenant
Robert Ian Vernon
2789
Army, Private
Allan John Wagner
571
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Meredith Lawrence Wilson
572
Army, Captain, Air Corps
Frank Blair Woodmansee
1083
Army, Sergeant, Air Corps
MARTINEZ No. 41
George Taylor Barkley
Army

146

27

HIRAM No. 43
Raymond Levi Dixon
235
Army, Corporal
Elton Lee Fisher
2760
Navy, C. M. First Class Seabees
Erling Lund
237
Army
Kenneth William McCoy
236
Navy ·

Burton Cameron Cochrane
1290
Army, Captain
John Lewis Giles
1289
Army
William Walton Hastings
1292
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Jack Henninger
1287
Navy
Leon Sidney Irving Kurlander 3219
Army, Private
Roy Adelbert LeBaron
2620
Army, Private
Carl Reese Lehman
1285
Army, Air Corps
Henry John Lucas
3220
Army, Private
George McClure Luttrell
2619
Army, Captain
George Work Marvin
1291
Army, Major
William Thomas Money
3217
Marine ·Corps, Cadet
Lester Rayner
2622
Army, Private, First Class
Walter Robert Relyea
2618
Army, Private
Richard Wesley Robinson
1286
Army, Captain
Fred Swift
1288
Army, Corporal
Robert John Woodrich
2621
Marine Corps, Captain
]'rank Joseph Zeller
1284
Army, Major

MOUNT MORIAH No. 44
Clarence ·William North
2913
Merchant Marine, Chief Engineer
Richard Vincent Ossler
·2911
Army, Major
Lawrence Perkins
2912
Navy, Chief Petty Officer

PLUMAS No. 60
Wilbert Arthur Hadley
2331
Coast Guard, First Class M. M. M.
Kenneth Stubbs Jacks
220
Army, Private, First Class
William Arms Jacks
219
Navy, Storekeeper, Third Class

SUISUN No. 55
John Alfred Beltz
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Ralph Allen Darville
Navy
Elmer Clement Perry
Navy, Seaman First Class
Milton Jerome Sheldon
Army, First Lieutenant
Milton Mallow Wright
Army, Private First Class

LIVE OAK No. 61
Eugene Theodore Severin
Army, Lieut. Colonel

Thomas Haughton Griffin
Navy, Deck P. 0. School
Ernest Lewis
Navy
Hugh Clifford Roberts
Army
Ralph E. West
Army

143
144
145
147

LOS ANGELES No. 42
William Jarvis Earl
1519
Army, Lieutenant
Charles Frank Gilb
343
Marine Corps, Private
Thomas Louis Nair
2319
Army, Private
Sidney Jay Roberts
1518
Army, Private
Joseph T. Schwartz
1520
Navy, Seaman
Frederick William Sievert
1058
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Jesse Lee Walden
2351
Army, Private

705
1598
168
704
2695

VOLCANO No. 56
Roy Rodeck Mattley
Navy, Lieutenant

2843

SANTA ROSA No. 57
Robert Donald Bean
Army

3218

1970

NATOMA No. 64
352
Leland Harrison Barton
Army, First Lieutenant
3258
William James Burnett
Army, Private
688
Elmer Linard Dixon
Army, Captain
1824
Dennis Edwin Flint
Navy, Elect. Mate, Second Class
2384
Edwin Hartzel McArthur
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
354
Malcolm McMillan
Army, Master Sergeant
William Lee Poplim
775
Army, Master Sergeant, A. C.

28

PROCEEDINGS OF T HE

Clifford William Rice
1037
Navy, Chief· Machinist Mate
Bernard Darwin Treaster
805
Army, First Lieut. Chaplain
FOREST No. 66
Herold Cordtz
2928
Army, Technical Sergeant
Raymond Geary Feagans
2927
Army, Junior Radio Engineer
MORNING STAR No. 68
1683
Nathan Powell Barbour
Army, Lieut. Colonel
1687
Anthony DeHeus
Navy, Machinist, First Class
1682
Percy Beales Gallegos
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Frank Thomas Jury
1686
Navy, A. M. M., Third Class
1684
George Henri Rohrbacher
Army, Lieut. Colonel
1685
Harry Wallace Rohrbacher
Army, Major
BEAR MOUNTAIN No. 76
696
Allan Rossi Banchero
Army, Private
HUMBOLDT No. 79
1336
Nicholai Antipoff
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
1129
Garner James Churchill
Coast Guard, Captain
1125
Charles Henry Eldon Crosby
Army, Sergeant
2145
Herman Robert Halvorsen
Navy, Yeoman, Second Class
Frank Fletcher Nellist
1127
Army, Private
1126
Oscar William Swanlund
Army, Major
1128
Leonard Lewis Wilcox
Army, Second Lieutenant
NAVAL No. 87
3108
Theodore Nathaniel Ovlen
Army
Simeon LaFayette
3109
Navy, Lieut. Commander
3110
George Ernest Patterson
Navy
3111
Glenn Partlow Patterson
Marine Corps
3112
John Robert Peard
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Sylvester R. Peden
3113
Navy, Chief Radioman
3114
Bert Raymond Peoples
Navy, Commander
Edward Winslow
3115
Navy

Walter James Gatrell Pickering 3116
Army, Captain
Radee Wallace Pierce
3117
Navy
3118
William Pleshko
Army, First Lieutenant
3119
James Reilly
Navy, Lieutenant
3120
Barney John Ross
Navy, Machinist's Mate
3121
Elmer Case Saums
Navy, Chief Radioman
3122
William Curtis Sawyer
Navy
Henry John Schafer
3123
Navy
3124
Max Putnam Schaffer
Navy, Lieutenant
Frederick Carl Sherman
3125
Navy, Rear Admiral
3126
Harry Siegel
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
3127
Oliver Prince Smith
Army, Lieut. Colonel
3128
Allan Dean Spaulding
Navy, Chief Pharmacist
3129
Lester Stansell
Navy
3130
Charles Swanberg Jr.
Army, First Lieut.enant
3131
Eldon Carl Swanson
Navy, Lieut. Commander
3132
Joseph David Van Zant
Army, First Lieutenant
3133
David Barclay Vassie
Navy
Robert Mearle Alderson
3054
Marine Corps, Gunner
3055
Mervin William Arps
Navy, Commander
William Joseph Austerman
3056
Navy, Commander
Garrett Burrell Aykroyd
3057
Navy, Pharmacist
3058
Gilbert Harry Badger
Navy, Chief Storekeeper
Willard Adolph Bergwall
3059
Navy, Ensign
Charles Lawrence Bridges
3060
Navy, Lieutenant
Arthur Brown
3061
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Charles Wesley Brown
3062
Navy, Commander
Markus Paul Bryant
3063
Navy
David Lewis Cohen
3064
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Thomas William Cooper
3065
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
Walter Thomas Denyer
3066
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate

GRAND LODGE OF ' CAJLIFORNIA

29

3098
3067 John Ross McKean
Joseph Patrick Emms
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Navy, Lieutenant
3099
3068 Carlton Arthur McKelvey
Robert Barbour England
Navy, Lieutenant
Navy, Lieut. Commander
3100
3069 James Gunn McPherson
Jessie Marion Robert Enloe
Navy, Commander
Navy, Pharmacist
Goree Meegan
3101
3070
Neal Bradford Farwell
Navy
Navy, Captain
3102
3071 John Peter Millon
Herman Lee Freudenberg
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Navy, Ensign
Hoke Smith Moody
3103
3072
Allen Jay Gehagan
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
•
Navy, Lieutenant
3104
3073 Austin Allan Moore
Anthony Leo Goulart
Army, Tech. Sergeant
Navy, Chief Ye oman
3105
3074 Theodore Edward Newcomb
Elmer Herbert Gould Jr.
Navy
Navy, Lieutenant
3106
3075 William Arthur Nigh tingale
Han:y Samuel Hager
Navy, Lieutenant
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
3107
3076 William Angus Nugent
Xanthius Wilson Hanna
Navy, Lieutenant
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
Reid Russell West
3134
3077
Frank Wallace Harlamert
Navy1 Master-At-Arms
Navy, Chief Yeoman
George Edward White
3135
3078
Paul Henry Harrison
Navy, Chief Machi nist's Mate
Marine Corps
3136
3079 Floyd Gerald Yoder
Thomas Christopher Hart
Navy, Lieut . Commander
Navy, Chief Pharmacist
Henry Marvin Holland
3080
ROSE'S BAR No. 89
Navy, Chief Mast er-At-Arms
Lesley '.l'ownsend Head
3142
David Francis Houk
3081
Army
Navy
3082
Harry Cowles Humphreys
HENRY CLAY No. 95
Navy, Chief Radi oman
109
Joseph
Pasquale Martin
3083
Daniel J. Hurt
Army,
Corporal
Navy,' Lieutenant
110
3084 W illiam Burnel Morrow
James Donavain Hutts
Navy, Pharmacist, First Class
Navy
3085
Isaac Johnson
H ORNITOS No. 98
Navy, Chief Commissary St.
Kenneth
Sherwood Eaton
2862
Charles Sheridan Joyce
'3086
Army, Private
Navy, Captain
2861
3087 Ira Burr Keeler
Lansford Franklin Kengle
Army, Private
Navy, Lieut. Commander
3088
Quipcy Garrison Kothman
YOSEMITE No. 99
Navy, B. M., First Class
1820
3089 Louis Frank Burr
Harry Hugo Linder
Army, Flight Inst ructor
Navy, Pharmacist
. 1061
William Frederick Litterst
3090 Guy Arnold Clements Jr.
Army, Private
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
Rudolph Ignatius Longabaugh 3091
CLAY No. ·101
Navy, Commander
806
Calvin
Francis
Locker
3092
MalcQlm Andrew M·a cLeod
Army,
Corporal
Class
Navy, Pharm. Mate, Second
3093
William Ralph McAllister
OROVILLE No. 103
Navy, Lieutenant
J
ohn
Louis
Hanks
2773
3094
Charles Graham McCord
Army, Captain
Navy
Clifford Jay Hill
1922
3095
William Edwin McCain
Army, Aviation Cadet
Navy, Commander
3096
Marvin McCray
ARCATA No. 106
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Eugene
Byard
Chamberlain
2715
3097
Jack Leslie McDonald
Navy, Aviation Radio Operator
Navy, Electrician
·

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Burris Everett Claypool
Army, Major
Frederick Lloyd Graham
Marine Corps, Private
William Bryan McKittrick
Army, Captain
·

607
1174
608

PAJARO No. 110
Charles Blaine Casto
231
Army, Private, First Class
Frederick Rodgers Hudson Jr.
227
•Robert Henry Hudson Jr.
234
Army, Instructor Air Corps
Robert Rowe Hutchings
228
Army, Private
Vernon Glenn Hyatt
229
Army, Private
Reimers Doran Koepke D. D. S. 235
Navy, Lieutenant
William Lars Mathson Jr.
232
Navy, Ensign
John Franklin Ritts
230
Army, Private, First Class
William Henry Wilson
226
Navy, Yeoman, Third Class
CHICO No. 111
William Kenneth Gorsuch
Private
Arthur Earl Graves
Army, Private
Herbert Dean Hintz
Army, Private
Kenneth Elling Johnson
Army
·
Oliver Merriam Johnson
Navy
Richard Prince Kollenborn
Army
Ray Brown Lobell
Army, Aviation Cadet
Thomas Dewey Martin
Army, Lieutenant
William Wilfred Morton
Navy
William James Perry
Army, Captain
Wilton Laurence Simmons
Army, Captain
Paul Mathias Smith
Army
Caroll Stephen Stoddard
Army, Major
Edgar Allen Stoddard
Army, Captain
EDEN No. 113
Andrew Dean Dalziel
Army, Private
Cecil Howard Grider
Army, Second Lieutenant

'

3530
3529
3528
3531
3536
3535
3532
3534
3527
3526
3525
3533
3523
3524

1004
1003

Glenn Washington OI:lmert
Marine Corps, Private
Hull Carroll Peppin
Army, Captain

GRAND LODGE OF CA.LIFORNIA

1005
1006

CONCORD No. 117
Lloyd George Buchler
2126
Army, Major
Thomas Martin George
2396
Army
Bill Purcell Mayhood
2127
Army, Second Lieut. Air Corps
Joseph Leonard Tupper
2128
Army, Lieut. Colonel
Edward Soren Vortriede .
2129
Navy, Chief B. M.
Llewellyn Could Warren
2130
Army, Medical Battalion
Harold Chesney Weis
2131
Army, Private
Joseph Melvin Wicks
2132
Army, Corporal
Leonard Jordan W ohlfert
2133
Army, Captain
FIDELITY No. 120
Hart Richard Aaron
908
Navy, Lieutenant
Irving Aaron B&linger
738
Army, Private
Irving Peiser Cohn
737
Army, Captain
Stanley Edwin Cohn
3320
Army, Private
Edgar Louis Colton
916
Army, Private
Clarence Joseph Davis
1276
Army, Private
Douglas Theodore Epstein
909
Army, Major
Jerome Finkelstein
1274
Navy, Radio Oper, Second Class
Irving Nathan Gabriel
3489
Army, Private
Milton Henry Gruhn
3035
Army, Private
Robert Henry Hamburger
1121
Army, Private, First Class
Paul Edward Isaacs
1122
Army, Private
Merton Alvin Jacobs
736
Army, Private
Adolph William Kutner
;L120
Army, Corporal
Newton Henry Kutner
1123
Army, Private
Leon Mayer Loewenthal
1500
Army, First Lieutenant
Sol Maisler
777
Navy, Lieut. Commander
David Neuman
992
Marine Corps, Sergeant

3325
:Max Louis Poise
Army, Captain
778
Jerome Sapiro
Army, Second Lieutenant
910
Aaron Schwartz
Army, Officers Training School
2656
Arnold Bertram Weber
Army, Captain
917
Lawrence Wolff
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Robert Riese Zeimer
1275
Army, Officers Training School
ALAMO No. 122
Milton Martin Nelson
Army, Private
Edward McGraw Rowland
Army, Private

729
730

SOTOYOME No. 123
Donald Raymond Brown
1915
Navy, Officers. Training School
John Almy Condit
1914
Army, Officers Training School
Earl Finley Davis
1912
Army, Private
Rene Gaston DeLagnes
1913
Navy, R. M. I. C.
L a FAYETTE No. 126
Edward Noble Hutton
765
Navy, Mach. Mate, First Class
Charles Robert King
1176
Navy, Naval Intelligence
Paul Allen O'Neil
766
Army, Lieuteuant
Gail Donley Rathbun
767
Army, Private
VISALIA No. 128
William Ross Bennett
2877
Marine Corps, Second Lieutenant
Jesse Otto Clark
2875
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
2873
John Elden Clark
Army, Lieutenant
2872
Orly Orval Davis
Army, First Lieutenant
3552
Donald William Grant
Marine Corps, Private
3551
Houston Randolph Herrin
Marine Corps, Private
2878
Frederick Harrison Hover
Army, Lieut. Colonel
2874
Homer Carl Lentz
Army, Officer School Air Corps
2880
Forest George Powell
Army, Lieutenant
2876
Wend ell Henry Preston
Army, Technical Train. Air Corps
Ray W. Townsend
2879
Navy, Lieut. Commander

N ICOLAUS No. 129
Harlan Christian Diedrichsen
Army, Lieutenant
Harold Eric Swanson
Army, Private

31
3411
3412

WOODBRIDGE No. 131
Christopher Norman Adams
1146
Army, First Lieutenant
Elliott L. Adams
1147
Army, Captain, Medical Corps
James Oliver Newman
1145
Army, Second . Lieutenant
Charles John Pierovich
1144
Marine Corps, Private
SINCERITY No. 132
Howard Lorenzo Schuyler
Navy, Chief Petty Officer

1395

PACIFIC No. 136
Melville Russell Baruh
2818
Army, Captain
Irving Cassell
2819
Navy
George Howard Dale
7
Army, Captain
Ralph Solomon Doscher
8
Army, Major
Meyer Arendt Edwards Jr.
9
Army, Major
Thomas Collins Emery
3560
Army
Mervin Jack Goldman
11
Army, Captain
Mervyn J. Goodman
3236
Marine Corps
Richard D. Goodman
2925
Army
Cyrus M. Hershman
12
Navy, Petty Officer
13
Caro Wolf Jacobs
Navy
Milton Jacobs
3168
Army
Irwin Leo Kaufmann
14
Army, Major
Theodore Cheung Lee
15
Army, Lieutenant
Elbert Edward Levy
16
Army, Private, First Class
Donald Parson Nash
17
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Joseph Newman
2717
Army, Private
Louis H. Peiser
2987
Army
Allison E. Schofield
643
Army, First Lieutenant
Allan Joseph Stampa
18
Army, Lieutenant Colonel

32

GRAND LODGE OF CA'LIFORNltA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Harry K. Wolff Jr.
Army

2572

CROCKETT No. 139
James Biocca
2959
Navy
Frank Dailey Jr.
871
Army, Lieutenant
George Edward Hart
873
Army, Major
Ri.c hard Kindsay Hart
1371
A1·my, Quarter Master Dpt.
Leonard H . Holt
1167
Army, Supply Sergeant
Richard Hopelain
1166
Army, Major
l!'ullerton Donald Joseph
872
Army
Frederick Gates Kramer
1168
Army, Lieutenant
Earl Lavern Lanning
1170
Ar~y, Aircraft Communicator
Kerll)eth Bernard Lee
2282
Navy, Cadet
Frank Gabriel Loskay
874
Armv
Jean Morony
1169
Army, Private
George Ponte
2604
Army, Machinist
Eric Reginald Quartermaine
875
Navy
Milo Earl Russell
876
Army
Russell Perrin Tyler
877
Army, Lieut. Colonel
Ballard White Jr.
878
Army
CURTIS No. 14-0
Dr. Frank ~rnest Sohler Jr.
Army, Captain
GRAFTON No. 141
Mark Philips
Army, Major
FRANKLIN No. 143
Milton Wayne Cloutman
Army, Private
Norman Winfield Cotton
Army, First Lieutenant
Loyal ' Davies Mealer
Navy, Lieutenant J . G.
ORIENTAL No. 144
Arthur Clarence Balling
Navy
· Chester Adrian Bowes
Navy, Lieutenant
Percy Lott Burr
Army, Captain

3234

1897

76
3440
76

2607
3327
785

Craig Emerson Corvill0
2889
Army
Elmer Alfred Duncanson Jr.
788
Navy, Yeoman, Second Class
Harry Stanton Elliot
1825
Army, Lieut. Colonel
Raymond Charles Granieri
1007
Army, Corporal
Chester Judah
787
Army, Captain
James Judson Levensaler
784
Navy, Seaman, First Class
Leslie Peter Marino
786
Army, Staff Sergeant
Arlow Clarence Moreland
783
Navy, Ensign
·
Norman Traung Power
2557
Army, Lieut., Eng.
Albert Preston Ringressy
1413
Army, Colonel
George Edward Ross
891
Navy, Lieut. CommandeF
Francis X. Schwarzenbek Jr.
3326
Army, Capt., Intelligence
VITRUVIUS No. 145
John Nicolas Buckley
246
Navy
Andrew Hugh. Clendenning
2788
Navy, M. 0. M. M., Second Class
Ferdinand Edward Dewey
248
Coast Guard
·
James I. Fay
253
Marine Corps, Private, First Class
Bory! Walker King
247
Coast Guard
Robert Porter Megaw
249
Army, Private
James Ryan Sibert
250
Army, Sergeant
Perry Elwood Smith
251
Army, Private
Harry Eugene Steinbeck
252
Army, Private
ABELL No. 146
Frank Alva Branson
119
Army, Private
Andrew Long Clendenen
1379
Navy
Donald Alexander Fullerton
473
'Army, Captain
George Hollie Smith
239
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
EEL RIVER No. 147
Milton Daniel Andrain
Army, Major
Cecil Charles Evers
Navy
Eugene Claire Grau
Army, Captain

44
1378
3478

l!'rank Edward Heuschkel
42
Navy, Seaman, Second Class
Dudley Newton Maxwell
1377
Navy
Melvin John Reese
1971
Navy, Carpenter's Mate First Class
Hoyt Alexander Stewart
43
Army
Chester Barnard Stromberg
1972
Army, Lieutenant
LASSEN No. 149
Dr. Paul Edward deRocher
Army, Private

3182

MOLINO No. 150
I-'ewis McDonald Jr.
1960
Coast Guard, Yeoman, Third Class
WOODLAND No. 156
3567
Rudolph Antone Blum
Army, Captain
3570
James Arthur Fruit
Army, Sergeant (Aviation Corps)
Arthur Craig Huston Jr.
3568
Army, Lieut. Colonel
3566
Harley Edward Juli
Army, Sergeant
3569
Otto Gustav Neimann
Army, · Major
Joseph Marion Richardson
3565
Army, Corporal
EXCELSIOR No. 166
Chester R. F. Cramer
3031
Army, First Lieutenant
Thomas Robert Edwards Jr.
1381
Navy, Lieutenant
Emil Edward Ericksen
2058
Navy, Boatswain D-V (G)
John Herbert Etridge
2630
Navy, M. M,, Second Class ,
Frank George Lutticken
1501
Army, Private
Roy Richard Sander
20:57
Navy, Storekeeper, Third Class
1597
George Eging Schneider Jr.
Army, Private
Milton Ludwig Strandell
2573
Marine Corps
ALAMEDA No. 167
Samuel Sanford Metzger
2101
Army, Lieut. Colonel
Thore John Nordvik
2100
Army, First Lieutenant
Alvah Finney Notley
35
Army, Inspector U. S. Air Lines
ANTIOCH No. 175
John Fulton Cox
Army, Private

740

Boyd Roscoe Lewis
Navy:, Lieut. Comander
Garth Henry Rose
Army, Private, First Class

33
741
2802

PHOENIX No. 178
Fred Wolford Hattan Jr.
3198
Navy, Ensign (Pilot)
Alfred Leonard Luce
3197
Navy, Gunner's Mate, First Class
Glenn Franci8 Nolan
3200
Army, Private
Roy Kenneth Stillwell
3202
Army, Sergeant
Ralph Lytle Stone
3199
Army, Private
3201
Robert Melton Young
Army, Officer's Training
PETALUMA No. 180
Jerry Jack Blum
Army, Fir~t Sergeant
Ivan Hagopian
Army, Private
George Carl Peterson
Navy, Seaman, First Class
Ernest Potter Runnells
Army, Captain

1727
2721
2719
2720

KEITH No. 187
Cecil Leslie Carlyle
469
Army, Captain
Ralph Louis Eustis
466
Army, A. C., Private
Donald Cowles Greig
468
Army, Lieutenant
Raymond Burnett Weppener
2651
Navy, Mo. M. M., First Class
Junior Gerald Wilson
467
Army, Private
OAKLAND No. 188
Talbert Louis Alborell
Army, Auditor, Air Corps
Jack Taylor Clayton
Army, Lieutenant
Leo David Hermie
Marine Corps, Colonel
Chester Robert Hunt
Army, Lieut. Colonel
William Holly Kilbourne
Coast Guard, Second Mate
Robert Spencer Manke
Navy, Electrician
Mauritz Martin Nelson
Na"{y, Lieut. Commander
Harold James Speetzen
Army, Private, Air Corps
Frank Stephen Eaton Jr.
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Tommie Emery Stowell
Army, Private

2860
32
33
2385
187
2558
34
2739
2112
36

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.<~uy Matthew T urner

.
1039
Navy, Asst. Chief Mach. Mate
Harold Byron West
·
37
Marine Corps, Captain
Eric Wulfer t
38
Army, Private
NORTHERN LIGHT . No. 190
Emory Edward Haslett
254
Army, Private
MARIN No. 191
Wesley Lawton Barker
2286
Army, Second Lieutenant
Arthur Frederick Clark Jr.
2308
Army, Master Sergeant
Dominic Dennis
2287
Army, Master Sergeant Air Corps
Fred August Dusel Jr.
2306
Army, Baggageman-Embalmer
Samuel Heiman
2291
Army, Captain, Air Corps
John Edgar Hodgin
2307 ·
Army, Master Ser geant
E rwin Valentine Holton
2303
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Harry Kramer
2304
Army, Master Sergeant, Air Corps
Fred Harry Levens
2305
Navy, Motor Mach., Second Class
William L . Morgan
2886
Army, Private
Jean Melcher Sellman
2290
Army, Second Lieu tenant
George Frederick Shecklen
2289
Navy, Commander
Guy Ellis Tan,nyhill
2292
Marine Corps, Captain
SANTA BARBARA No. 192
1658
Elmer Maclay Awl
Navy, Ship's Service ·officer
496
Arthur Curt Bae.t
Army, Sergeant
497
Arden Leonard Page
Navy, Boatswain's Q. Div.
1659
Hugh Aitken Shiels
Navy, Lieut., Air Corps
495
Stanley Trace Tomlinson
Navy, Lieut., J. G.
498
Maurice Valentine Walker
Navy, Yeoman, Second Class
FERNDALE No. 193
Carl Norman Jorgensen
Army, Private
Vovo Hall J or gens en
Army, Air Corps

555
556

MOUNTAIN VIEW N o. 194
449
Ernest Stephen Black
Army, First Sergeant

GRAND LODGE 01' CAILIFO.RNIA

Neil Vincent Darrah
452
Army, P r ivate
John Edwar d Fabbri
453
Army, Private, First Class
Walter Norman Gibson
647
Mar ine Corps, First L ieutenant
Joseph Dorr Griggs
44 7
Navy
Wayne Prather
451
N avy, Chief PaY, Clerk
Charles E. Stafford
450
Army, L ieut. Colonel
J oseph Wm. Wilson
446
Army, Non-Flying Air. Corps
SAN SIMEON No. 196
Charles L indsley Badley
Army, Captain, Co. F.
Richard Somers Vreeland
Army, Captain

2543
631

HARTLEY No. 199
1883
Guido Oscar deGhetaldi Jr.
Army, Private
Dudley Johnson Greene
2383
Army, Private
James Lyall Morrison
613
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
William l!'oster Morrison
614
Navy, Second Class Seaman
John Robert Murphy
1882
Army, Private
Gregg T urner
1175
Navy, Yeoman, Second Class
TRUCKEE No. 200
Colin Clyde Campbell
Army, Major, C. W. S.
Marion Ocker Follett
Navy, Storekeeper Third Class

79
80

, PENTALPHA No. 202
2857
James Ayres Jr.
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
2856
John Arthur Ford
Army, Captain
2855
William M cKinley Graham
Army, Private
2854
Earl Wesley Green
Army, Captain
2853
Roland Richey Leslie
Army, Major
2852
Rayman Nathani el Miller
Navy, Electrician Third Class ·
2851
George Vernon Orr Jr.
Navy, Ensign
2850
Neil Bramlett Ross
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
2849
William Wallace Stern
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
2848
Gordon Seton Templar
Navy, Yeoman Third Class

Robert Morford Van Dusen
Army, Corporal
Cliffor d Willard Waters
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Martin William Webber
Army, Lieutenant
Clifford Earl Willis
Army, Private
OLIVET No. 205
Francis Wm. Mosher
Army, Private
ANAHEIM No. 2'07
Ernest D. Clabaugh
Army, Major
Frederick Nelson Davis
Navy, C. W. P.
John U. Martens
Army, Sergeant

2847
2846
2844
2845

700

1546
121
2761 ·

RIO VI 'S TA No. 208
Lewis Byron Isham
2472
Navy, Storekeeper Third Class
Morris Alvin Ostsman
2710
Army, Corporal
Arlin Clifford Raycraft
262
Army, Technical Sergeant
Frederick C. Staehle
2708
Army, First Lieutenant
Robert Fletcher Turney
2709
Navy, Yeoman Third Class
KING DAVID'S No. 209
Merlyn Franklin Carpenter
1096
Navy, Petty Officer Third Class
Clarence Sherman Howe
1153
Army, Major
Hamilton Virgil Lowe
·3564
Navy, Seaman Second Class
George Earl Pugh
881
Navy, First Class Hospital App.
FRIENDSHIP No. 210
David Wells Dorsey
Army, First Lieutenant
Alden Campbell Grant
Army, Captain, Eng.
John Mitchell Hall
Army, Captain
Cecil Wright Hamilton
Arm;v, Major, Eng.
Richard Milton Herring
Army, Captain
Donald Leslie Hickey
Army, Aviation Cadet
Arthur Bradford Jones
Army, Sergeant
John Walter Jones
· Army, Private
Donald Robert L ee
Army, Priva te

1046
2797
1473

Thomas Oliver Moore
2574
Army, Private, Aviation Mechanic
Asa Leon Perdue
2123
Navy, Lieutenant Senior Grade
Thomas Ambrose Pitcher
1041
Army, Major
Hall Stott Schrader
2798
· Coast Guar d, C. C. M .
Isadore Herman Solomon
2796
Marine Corps; Private First Class
Ross G. Vant.:rundy
1042
M arine Corps, Captain
SAN BENITO No. 211
John Lader Adams
1619
Army, Sergeant
George Willam J ean Jr.
335
Navy, Yeoman
Edwin Douglas Murray
1364
Navy, Lieutenant Comman der
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO No. 212
Richard Eugene Barnes
862
Army, Private
Robert Newell Barnes
861
Army, Private
George Irving
863
Navy, Recruiting Officer
. W illard Raymond Kaufman
553
Navy, Ensign, Air Corp
Everett Milton McDonald
2930
Army
A lex Samuel Samson
554
Navy
SAN BUENAVENTURA No. 214
Peter Altpeter
1875
Army, Major
Jame Henry Boatner
1876
Navy
,
William Francis Hendr ickson 1877
Army
Noble Soloman Johnson
1878
Navy, Lieutenant Senior Grade
Lawrence Jessup Mitchell
1879
Army, Captain
Gerhard Willard Neilson
1880
Navy, Yeoman Third Class
Charles N ewnian
1881
Navy

1040
1472
1045
1044
3329
1043

OAK GROVE No. 215
Max Richard Boe
3421
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Charles W. Cox
1947
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
John Ohanneson
3420
Navy, Lieutenant Commander ·
DORIC N o. 216
Ira Winn Coburn Jr.
Army, Captain

2782'

36

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE

:Arthur B. Cole
183
Army Air Corps
Vernon V. Dobson
184
Navy, ·Chief Machinist Mate
William H. Donaldson
185
Army, Colonel
Chester Sigmund Harris
2678
Army, Colonel, Medical Corps
2676
Peter Manfos
Army, Major
186
Richard E. Mittelstaedt
Army, Brigadier General
Gus. Charles Ririgole
2679
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Walter C. Simpson
2680
Army, Captain
Theodore W'e iman
2677
Army, Lieutenant, Medical Corps
MONTEREY No. 217
1
Henry Clinton Barnes
Army, Sergeant
Clyde Charles Baum
Army, Lieutenant
Everett Ira Bibb
Army, Captain
William Davis
Army, Sergeant
Arthur Clifford Drummond
Army
L eRoy Maynard Gardner
Canadian Army
Roland Clyde Ingels
Army
Arthur Charles Jackson
Navy, Musician First Class
W esley Edgar Keeter
Navy
Albert Crowell Kolb
Navy
Carl L enn Pearson
Army Sergeant
Weldon Pelham Preble
Army Sergeant
Donald Valentine Scofield
Army, Major
Louis Clifford Walker
Army, Captain
Joseph Anthony West
Navy
Roger Samuel Williams
Army, Sergeant
Arthur Grosvenor Winston
Army, Major
MOSAIC No. 218
Ralph Ensign 'Merritt
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
David Marshall Napier
Army, H. Q . H. R. Squad.
Harlan Philip Porter
Army

256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
373
255
374
375
376
377
378
379
380

215
·218
216

Malvern Roland Sweet
Army

GRAND LODGE OF· CA!LIFORNIA

217

SPERANZA ITAL·I ANA No. 219
Samuel E. McCormick
264
Navy, Recruiting Service
DOWNEY No. 220
Frank Martin Armstrqng
Army, Private
Abraham M. B. Freidman
Navy, Petty Officer
Solon E. Henderson
Army
Leamon Tidwell Pulley
Army, Captain
Beverley Broaddus Scrivner
Army
Ernest E . Woodbury
Army, Private
INYO No. 221
Philip Earhart Baxter
Army, Private
Herman Henry Budke
Navy

19~5

1949
1946
1950
1944
1948

615
616

ROSEVILLE No. 222
Hanford August Crockard
2952
Army, Major
Lee Elam
2954
Navy, Seaman
Thomas William Falltrick Jr. 2951
Navy, Chief Specialist
Lowell Jack Goulard
2949
Army, Officer Candidate
Gerald H ale Ketcham
2950
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Melvin Bernard Schaffer
2665
Navy, Hospital App. Second Class
Lewis Harry Wood
2953
Navy, Mach. Mate Secon_d Class
BAKERSFIELD No. 224
Bruce Hamilton Acebedo
1310
Army, Sergeant
Leo Fenimore Baisinger
1307
Army, First Lieutenant
Edwin Kenneth Baum
1312
Army, Major
William Flickin1?er Colm
1313
Army, Flying Cadet
Angus Duncan Crites
2167
Army,· Second Lieutenant
Ernest Victor Culberson
2168
Navy, Second Class Seaman
Ralph Thomas Cunningham
1623
Army, Captain
Hugh Curran
1304
Navy, Lieutenant
P a ul John Grant
1645
Army, Private

Horace Vaughn Grayson
Navy, Lieutenant
Olceas Kramer
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Kenneth Clyde Masteller
Army, Colonel
Howard Nichols
Army, Major
Charles Albert Ross
Navy, Ensign
Raymond Earl Smythe
Army, Priva te
Christopher Burton Stockton
Army, First Lieutenant
Harlon Paul Stricklin
Army, Master Sergeant

1314
1311
1315
1305
1306
3203
1308
1309

BROOKLYN No. 22.5
Ross Clayton Anway
2625
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
James Morgan Buswell Jr.
3563
Navy, Seaman First Class
J ames Wm. Millar Cobb
2832
Army, Private
'
Gordon Manley Dickie
2626
Coast Guard, Warrant Officer
Godfrey August Duncan
2627
Army, Sergeant
Elmo Gordon Gulley
2762
Navy, Electrician Third Class
Fred Hill Houseknecht
2628
Navy; Chief Storekeeper
Charles Franklin Kennington
2763
Army, gergeant
Morrison Ruble Webb
2729
Navy, Warrant Officer
SAN MATEO No. 226
'furner Joseph Barton
Navy
·
Arthur Thaddeus Brill
Navy, Lieutenant
Cornelius Sterling Burwell
Army, Private
Irving McBeth Burwell
Army, Private
Fred Guitar Jr.
Navy, Gunner
Walter Sidney Hanni
A rmy, Private
Martin Karr
Navy, Captain, Phys.

2770
2771
2768
2769
2772
2767
2766

ATHENS No. 228
Mervyn Clement Dhon
39
Army, Sergeant
George Albert Duncan
1034
Army
Roscoe Collings Savage
3161
Army, Private First Class
John Shokos
,
3407
Navy, Mo. M. M. Second Class

37

SOLANO N o. 229
Irwin Berle Wyman
Navy, Chief Radioman
Warren Miller
Navy, Quartermaster

3160
3159

NORTH BUTTE No. 230
Jack Forry Watson
Army, Staff Sergeant

651

COVELO N o. 231
Claude Edward Storie
Army, Private

164

JANE'SVILLE No. 232
2537
Charles Christopher Smith
Navy, Machinist's Ma te First Class
CALISTOGA No. 233
Paul Laurin Manuel
Marine Corps
Theodore Mitchell Weil
N avy,_Seaman Second· Class

465
464

SURP_RISE VALLEY No. 235
Elmer Hornback Cook
3462
Army, Private
Robert Ranty Jordan
3463
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Earl Frederick Simson
3461
Army, Staff Sergeant
COLUSA No. 240
William Walworth Merrill
Army, Private First Class
John Everett Montgomery
Army
Wayne Houston Oliver
Army

361
2955
612

SANTA ANA No. 241
2118
Carl Rogers Bower
Navy
Dale Edison Brockett
1973
Army
William E . R. Crawford
1622
Navy; Phar macist First Class
Frank Francis Harbaugh
1862
Navy
.
Chad McKinley Harwood
1620
Navy, Lieutenant Senior Grade
Boyd Alan Herchey
1861
Army, Lieutenant
Harry Grant Matthews
1860
Army, Major
Kenneth R-oessle Nurse·
1621
Army, Second Lieutenant
William Hartzel Peterman
2095
Navy
MAGN.OLIA No. 242
Allen Hadley Baisley
1363
Navy, Ship. Fitter Third Class

38

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ralph Waldo Coane
. Army, Brigadier General
Monroe Frandler
Army, Second Lieutenant
Gene Marden Harris
Navy, Lieutenant, J. G.
James Burrell Hayes
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
John Nelson Heaton
Army, Private
Arthur Reginald Nichols
Army, Sergeant
Afan Dale Smith
Army, Private
.John Robert Watson
Army, Captain

2059
879
1152
1091
1474
1030
2165
1277

EUCALYPTUS No. 243
Oliver Dudley Burr
2826
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
Marvin Leroy Flierl
2982
Navy, Yeoman Third Class
ALCATRAZ No. 244
Arthur Franklin Jennings
Army, Technical Sergeant
James Theodore Wulf
Navy, Chief Radioman
LAUREL No. 245
Witmer Zearina Brenneman
Army, Private
Rodman Wade Danley
Army
Archie Olin Lefoes
Army, Captain
Exvalt McCune Osborn
Army, Captain
Charles Roy Schmidt
Army) Sergeant
Robert Dean Scholes.
Army, Major
Chester Irvina W'olcott
George Vernon Wolcott
Army, Air Corps

989
988

710
3374
709
708
711
360
3375
3373

POMONA No. 246
Fred Burnett Blaney
2634
Army
Carvy B. Boatright
796
Navy, Instructor, Air Station
Hyman Jacob Bradofsky
523
Army, Private
Randolph William Covert
525
Navy, CCSTD (PA) F4CUSFR
Louis Mason Dean
2969
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
Vestus Reed Farmer
1696
Navy, Pharmacist Third Class
J. Fred Nutter
3341
Marine Corps, First Lieutenant
;Edmllnd Parker Stone
524
Army, Major

ADIN No. 250
Edward John Carlson
Navy, Lieutenant
LANDMARK No. 253
Gene Stewart Davis
Army, Specialist Rating
Hayes Harvey Gable
Army, Private

535

776
1362

READING No. 254
Linn Sutton Chaplin
1344
Army, Lieutenant Colonel AAF
Mathew Alvin Cibula
665
Army, Major
Edward Mason Dean
667
Navy, Third Class Storekeeper
Stanley Vernon DeForest
666
Army, Private
Richard Behrens Eaton
668
Army, Captain
Henry Eric Hill
1032
Army, Captain
Pierce Leooson Hussey
1033
Army, Lieutenant
Charles Robert Love Jr.
669
Army, Private
WELCOME No. 255
Roy Wendell Green
Army, Private
· Philip Rice Kendall
Navy, Chief Pay Officer

779
906

PENRHYN No. 258
2569
George William Frank
Navy, Yeoman First Class
Harvey Brown Howell
3416
Army, Private
Howard Irving Smyth Jr.
2668
Army, Corporal
Wesley Howard Tudsbury
96
Army, Private
EVERGREEN No. 259
Harry Peter Amstutz
1414
Navy, Lieutenant Jr. Grade
George Dexter Covey
1475
Army, Second Lieutenant
William Carey Evans
1415
Army, Major ·A. C.
Eugene Homer Ford
1416
Army, Master Sergeant
Edwin Robert Freeman
1417
Army, Captain A. A. F.
Franklyn Davis Hankins
1418
Navy, Lieutenant M.C.
Norman J. Harris
1419
Army, Second Lieutenant
Austin Ray Hastings
2350
Army, First Lieutenant
Robert Percy Jones
1420
Army, Captain

2664
John Franklin Kaser
Marine Corps, Private
2536
Josiah Raymond King
Army, First Lieutenant
1421
Edward James Lewis
Army, Major
1422
Lewis Carl Malone
. Navy, Motor M. M., Second Class
Arthur Weston Miller
3376
Army, Captain
1423
Olin Oscar Newell
Army, Private, First Class
1819
Hartley Bayley Pierson
, Navy, Ph. Mate, First Class
George Eimore Richards
1424
Army, Second Lieutenant
William Perrine Robinson
1618
Army, Major
1779
William Edward Ruttan
Army, Master Sergeant
1476
Reeford Paul Shea
Army, Captain
Herman Gilbert Snodgrass
3l48
Navy, Lieutenant
1660
Daryll Cranston Spears
Army, Captain
1425
Harry James Steiman
Navy, Av. M. M., Second Class
1538
Jessie James White
Army, Master Sergeant
KING SOLOMON'S No. 260
Myron Lionel Birnbaum
123
Army, First Lieutenant
129
.Forest Leeper Campbell
Army, Captain
2859
Alvin Jesse Crane
Army, Corporal
. 128
Lyman Dunlap Heacock
Navy, Dental Surgeon
2576
Richard Ray Irvine
Army, Lieutenant
1008
Joseph Joshua Jacobs
Army
Archie Bawlin McKay
130
Navy, Lieut. Commander
127
William McBrayer Oa)ces
Navy, Retired
124
Milton George Patropulos
Army, Private, First Class
125
Joseph Schneiderman
Army, Private, First Class
122
Archibald Mann Simenstad
Navy, Lieut., J. G.
2577
Henry Lazar Sommer ·
Army, Lieut. Colonel
126
Frank Elwood Stiles
Army, Major
George William White
1009
Navy
TUSCAN No. 26:1.
2586
Fred August Rosel
Navy

ORLAND No. 265
Roscoe Rufus Mapes
Army, Private

39
918

NORTH EAST No. 266
Donald Buck
1977
Aviation Squadron
Lawrence Earnest Peterson
1976
Navy, Second Class Fireman
GALT LODGE No. 267
Samuel Gerder Christian
Army, Captain

749

DURANT . LODGE No. 268
Walter Alexander Bouve
2696
Army, Major
2564
Joseph Albert Bowen
Navy, Lieutenant
2887
Charles Josef Carey
Army, Captain
2697
Lloyd Erwin Clifford
Navy
Commander, U. S. N.
Rollin Fisk Harlow Jr.
2610
Army, Sergeant
2283
Frank Harvey Holden
Army, Colonel
2124
Howard Milne Johnston
Army, Major, Dental Corps
2301
William Campbell Judge
Marine Corps, Captain
2321
Lawrence Anton Krieg
Navy, Av. M. M., First Class
2699
Edward Lebrun Macaulay
Army, Lieut. Colonel
2302
John Kellogg Marten stein
Marine Corps, Lieut. Colonel
2125
Arthur Pollard Matthews
Navy, Lieutenant
· Frederick Waldo Reyland Jr.
2013
Navy, Lieut., J. G.
2014
Donald James Rose
Navy, Lieutenant
2015
Winsor Domin Wilkinson
Army, Captain
'
OLIVE BRANCH No. 269
1426
Burnett De Butler
Army, Corporal
1427
John 'Edwin Gilmore
Army, Captain
PASADENA No. 272,
Louis Gerald Beskin
3246
Army, First Lieutenant
Frank Young Bowland
1782
Navy, Chief Shipfitter
Dean Carl Brackenbury
531
Army, Corporal
Sheldon Benedict Frye
1283
Army, Private
Henry Donald Gordon
532
Army, Second Lieut., Air Corps

40

GRAND LODGE OF\ CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Harold Nair
Navy, Chief Shipfitter
Erle Bruce Williams
Army, Private
ANCHOR N o. 273
Joseph Jesse Arozena
Navy, E. M., First · Class
Owen Allen Hardage
Navy
Gaylord L. Hillebert
Army, Private
Raymond Whitfield Spencer
Army, Private

2219
2484

2039
2041
2040
2042

SELMA N o. 277
Vernon Andrew Nielsen
Army, Lieutenant
Wallace Roscoe Palmateer
Army, Private, First Class

HANFORD No. 279
Alfred Emanuel Harlem
Army, Major
Charles Tilden Rosson Jr.
Ar.my, Major

3018
3023
3024

2780
762

24.93

SOUTH WEST N o. 283
3502
James Edward Adams
Navy, Boatswain
2865
Carroll Darsie Anderson
Navy, Lieutenant
Ernest William Baxter
2689
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Harold Lloyd Berger
3503
Navy, M. M., First Class
2690
Freci Whinery Cole
Army, Private
3505
Delavan Joseph Dickson
Navy, Specialist, First Class
2692
Charles E . Hughes
Navy, Chief Signalman
2866
Floyd Allan Lott
Army, Sergeant
2688
Roland Palmer
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
2691
Keith Donald Sutherland
Army, First L.i eutenant
2867
Thomas Earl Ward
Army, First Lieutenant
3504
Bert Warner
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mat e

2494

SAN MIGUEL N o. 285

ARROYO No. 274
Benjamin Dixon Conrad Jr.
628
Army, Second Lieutenant
Lester Albertus Golden •
629
Navy, Seaman
Percy Gregory Hawkins
2976
Army, Private
Max H enry Morgan
2723
Navy, Shipfitter
Nelson Herbert Russell
630
Army, First Lieuten ant
Paul Raymond Sevier
952
Navy, Yeoman, Third Class
OAKDALE No. 275
Lawrence Banks Gilbert
Army, Private
Wend ell Homer Kerr
Army, Captain

John B. S. Schuyler
Army
Frederick Edwin Tyler
Navy, .l<\ reman .first Class
Rodney Eugene Van Name
Army

594
593

SO. CALIFORNIA No. 278
3025
James Wolford Arrington
Army, Private
3020
Charles Daeker Baylis
Ma rine Corps, Captain
3021
Frederick Thomas BeU
Navy, Lieut. Commander
3578
H arold Arthur Burgess
Navy, Fireman, First Class
Calvin Jesse Carey
3312·
Navy, Storekeeper, Third Class
Andrew James Coop Jr.
3019
Army, Colonel
3577
Harvey Chandler Durkee
Navy, Yeoman 2nd Class
3026
Lawrence Loomis Jeffries
Army, Civilian, L. 0. Corps
3027
E dward John O'Hagga rty
Navy, Pharm. Mate, First Class
3022
Roman Rydezski
Navy, Lieutenant

Arthur Burgess Batty
2868
Army, Captain
Charles Wm. Muehlberger
2870
Army, Sergeant
Robert LeRoy Shattuck
2869
Army, Captain
Leander M. Weir
2871
N avy, Lieutenant Commander
PASO ROBLES N o. 286
3140
Herman Leslie Anderson Jr.
Navy, Storekeeper, Second Class
3345
George Washingt-0n Cotton
Army, Sergeant
3138
John Richard Hicks
Navy, Ensign
3388
Ira Edward McKinley
Army, Ma jor
3387
Richard Barclay Robbins
Army, Captain, Air Corps
3344
Gifford Lyne Sobey Jr.
Navy

ELSINORE No. 289
Francis Logan Barnett
Army, Private
Joseph Chester Barnett
Army, Sergeant
Frank Roy Houding
Army, Private
Eugene · Lee Small
Army, Private
Benjamin Wylie Tarwater
Marine Corps, Cadet
Dr. Glenn Albert Westphal
Army, Captain
Jack Arnold Wixom
Army, Private

566
1979
3410

41

ORANGE GROVE No. 293
Philip Crittenden
1917
Army, Major
Howard Edwin Moore
2220
Navy, Ensign
Ernest Story Ross
1918
Navy, First Asst. Eng.

3480
567
1382
2663

TRAVER No. 294
Chester Ralph Anderson
Army, Corporal
Mansel Washington Gallaher
Navy, Private

2662
2661

SIL VER GATE No. 296
2233
James Raymond Aplin
EAST GATE No. 290
Navy, Watertender
Frank Robert Bradley
2172
(Killed aboard the U. S. S. AriNavy, Machinist's Mate
zona in P earl Harbor, 12/7/ 41) .
Eugene A. duBois
2174
Douglas Bogard
2234
Navy, Electrician's Mate
Navy, Chief Pharmacist
Robert William Farrow
2173
2235
George Francis Boldrick
Army, Sig. & Tel. Corps
Army, Warrant Officer
Frank Kenneth Johnson
2178
Forrest M. Braddock
2236
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Navy, Chief Engineer's Mate
Gomer Vaughn Jones
2175
Grover Lennie Bullington
2237
Army, Private
Navy, Chief Carpenter's Mate
Domineck Lukoshat
2177
Edward J. B. Coyne
2238
Navy, Sailor
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
George Lutton
2171
Olan Dean Dowdy
2239
Marine Corps, P. F. C. Med. Dept.
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
William Palmer
2179
Warren Winthrop Fitch
2240
Army, Private
Navy, Aviation Chief Mach. Mate
James Leroy Rivers
2180
Charles Edward Geiger
2241
Navy, Warrant Officer
Navy, Chief Quartermaster
Harold Cleveland Schultz
2176 · Henry James Golden
2242
Navy, Lieutenant
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
Carl Sherrard
2170
Paul Adrian Hay
2243
Army, Private
Navy, First Class St ore Keeper
Ernest John Hess
2244
SANTA PAULA No. 291
Navy, A. M. M., First Class
Wilfred Kendall Bercaw
269
Roland Henry Howell
'
2245
Navy
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
John Louis Driggs
270
Charles Ashley Johnson
2246
Navy
Navy, Lieut. J. G.
2247
Duncan George Hughes
272
Leon Nemell Leavitt
Navy
Navy, Chief Gunner's Mate
Fred Vern Maloney Jr.
3205
Harvey Carltqn Lichty
2248
Army
N avy, Ensign
Glen Ira Miller
273
James Montoe Liddell
2249
Army, Major
Army, Captain
Julius Raymond O'Leary
1151
2250
Dallas Dayton Lore
Army, Corporal
Navy, Chief Yeoman
2253
Ernest Haftor Oman
274
William Frank Marshall ·
Army, Captain
Navy, Chief Radioman
2251
Charles Shannon Sheldon
275
Dewey Crell McDaniel
Army
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
2252
Donald Gardner Stitt
277
Max John Mcintire
Army Air Corps, Lieutenant
Navy, Warrant Officer
Adelbert Clayton Van Buskirk 1150
Barney Leland Meeden
2254
Army, Captain
Army, Lieut. Colonel

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

42

Samuei Mogannam
2255
Army, Warrant Officer, J. G.
George Frank Nelson
2256
Navy, Chief Torpedoman
Bascome Kruger Osborne
2257
Navy, Warrant Officer
Joseph Petruso
.
2259
Navy, Chief Torpedoman
Raymond Carver Perry
2258
Navy, Lieut. J. G.
Carl Henry Rogatsky
2260
Navy, Chief Radioman
William Douglas Scrivener
2262
Navy, Chief Quartermaster
Jesse Alvin Scott
2261
Navy, Lieut. J. G.
James Garlan Sinclair
2263
Army, First Lieutenant
Everett Owens Smith
2264
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Jack William Starr
2265
Marine Corps, Quartermaster Clerk
Charles Homer Sterling
2266
Marine Corps, Captain
Rupert Elbert Stone
2267
Marine Corps, Captain
Elmer Augustus Taylor
2268
Navy, Chief Commissary
Ralph Arlington Thompson Jr. 2269
Army, Cadet Officer
Howard l'loyd Turrentine
2270
Navy, Ensign
George Theodore Urbani
2271
Army, Lieut. Colonel
Herbert Sydney Wilbur
2272
Navy, Chief Torpedoman
Joe Burleson Williams
2273
Navy, Chief Commissary Steward
DUNSMUIR No. 297

John Ludwig Glaese
Army, Captain, A. C.

3506

LIBERTY No. 299
2567
Jackson Kirby .Bennett
Army, Captain
2944
Raymond :Augustus Harris
· Army, Private
.2568
Allah P. Joyner
Navy, Storeke.eper, Third Class
2565
Clement Morrison Land
Army, Major, Q. M. Corps
Merton Charles Elwood Prior 2942
Navy, Fireman, First Class
2566
Frank Alfred Wilcox
Navy, Second Lieutenant
REDLANDS No. 300
Nicholas Nevin Maccubbin
Navy

3579

GRAND LODGE OF! CALIFORNIA

ONTARIO No. 301 '

Harry Clayton Billings
Army, Major
Roland Clarence Rutledge
Army, Private First Class

1574
2166

PORTERVILLE No. 303
Howard Walker Marsh Jr.
1110
Army, Private
Edwin Leslie Means
438
Army, Captain
Lee Susman Mitchell
437
Navy, Storekeeper, Third Class
Norman T1reol ~pangenberg
436
Army, First Lieutenant
ASHLAR No. 306
Harold Hardy Cochran
Army, Staff Sergeant
Donald Ahler DeArmond
Army, Flying Cadet
LeRoy Byron Morgan
Army, Aviation Cadet

1194
1196
1195

MONROVIA No. 308
James Parsons Bowers
954
Army, Captain
Benjamin Buckles Cassiday
953
Army, Colon·e1 (Air Corps)
Ralph Albert Densmore
2075
Army, Lieut. Colonel
Edward Arthur Evans
955
Army, Brigadier General
Charles Merrill Savage
2076
Army, Colonel
DELANO No. 309
Harry Cline
1365
Army, Private
Malcolm Pomfert Sharp
822
Army, Sergeant ·
Lonon Quinn Smith
2929
Navy, Lieut., J. G.
SISSON No. 310
Daniel Bartlett McKinzie
2108
Army, Captain, .Air Corps
LOS BANOS No. 312
Lisle Sears Gardiner
1888
Army, Private
TEHACHAPI No. 313
Emmett Forde· Kesling
635
Army, Captain
Edwin Horlow Oshier
49
Army, Lieutenant
Norton Alonzo Smith
48
Army, Lieutenant
NORWALK No. 315
Charles Nicholas Funk
2106
Navy, Hosp. App., First Class

SANGER No. 316
Herman Louis Archinal
20
Army, Lieutenant
Carlyle Eugene Brown
21
Navy
John B. Harrison Dice
22
Army, First Lieutenant
Forrest James L·effel
23
Army
Charles Robert Pollock
2356
Navy, Radio Comm. School
Melvin Floyd Powell
2098
Navy, Seabees Const.
.Vernon Charles Scandrett
24
Navy
Ka:d Edward Schneider
26
Army, Lieutenant
Alfred James Shepherd
1067
Navy
August Raymond Smith
2097
Na"y, Seabees Storekeeper
Clarence Albert Smith
25
Army, Lieutenant
Carl Burton Starnes
27
Army, Private
Robert Lee Vernon
28
Army, Private
FALLBROOK No. 317
Forrest Samuel Lindsay
Army, First Lieutenant
EMMANUEL No. 318
Daniel Bayles Jr.
Army, Private
Eugene Stanley Grein
Army, Private
Stanley Mitchell Persons
Army, Captain
Arthur F. Waugh
Army, Private
Frank Haskell Watson Jr.
Army, First Lieutenant

821

3206
2216
()27
1555
52.6

HOLLENBECK No. 319
Harry Craven Ball
3549
Army, Private (Air Corps Band)
Fred Jackie Buckel
3544
Navy, Baker, First Class
George Raymond Bulling
3546
Navy, Seaman, Second Class
William K. Douglas
3545
.Army, Major, Air Force
William Ralph Hart
3541
Navy, M. M., Second Class
David Bax'ter Huff Jr.
3547
Army, Private
Roy T. Kiele
3537
Navy, Chief Storekeeper
~'rancis Edward Murphy
3543
Navy, Chief Petty Officer

43

Thomas Frederick Piner
3538
Army, PriVate
Fred George Simon
354'2
Army, Private
Eugene Robert Trotter
3548
Navy, Fireman, Second Class
Eugene V. Vossler
3539
Navy, Electrician, First Class
Robert Roy Wilson
3540
Army, Lieut. Colo.nel
SOUTH GATE No. 320
Carl Josephus Buck
2958
Navy, Lieut. Commander
·\
Archibald Collins
327
Navy, Chief Water Tender
John Nelson Fulmis
328
Navy, Chief Phy. Ed. Instructor
Wilfred Gladstone
2065
Army, Captain, Air Corps
William Alexander Parsons
2437
Army, Captain
Anton Cornelius Peterson
3426
Coast Guard, Warr ant Machinist
William Russell. Rall
1523
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Jack Edward Reich
3425
Army, Private
ALISAL No. 321
1205
Arnold Lyle Abrott
Navy, Officer's Reserve Corps
Joseph Ralph Berns Jr.
1206
Navy, Private
1207
Walter William Maynes
Navy, Ensign
ALHAMBRA No. 322
Eric Beccansall
47
Army, Sergeant
John Clifford Campbell
115
Army, First Lieutenant
Ralph R. Landreth
46
Navy, Cook
John Paul Ritter
45
Army, First Lieutenant
Henry C. Spencer
3408
WlllTTIER No. 323
Earl Hoyting 8hapman
34;65
Army, Major
Austin Lawrence Davis
3466
Navy, Ship's Cook, Third Class
Ross Lester Pemberton
3467
Army, Signal ~rps
Elmer Joseph Wiles
3464
Army, Major
Leslie Evans Yarbrough
3468
Navy
COJ!,ONA No. 324
Brooks Gifford
Navy, Lieut. Commander

2029

44

GRAND LODGE OF· CA\LIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1951
Ralph Elmer Kiehl
Navy, Aviation Cadet
1191
Norman Frank LaBarre
Army, First Sergeant, M. C.
1192
Henry Norman
Army, Staff Sergeant
721
Clyde Kenyon Warren
Army, Major

SAN PEDRO No. 332

2809

John Pritchard Blencowe
Navy, M. M., .First Class
Otto Emil Borowski
2806
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Abraham Christian Bucher
3371
Navy, Chief· ·Electrician's Mate
Louis Charles Crowder
2808
Navy, Chief Gunner's Mate
CONSUELO No. 325
2814
Bernard Dimon
1015
Gustave. Albin Hanson
Navy, Chief Yeoman
2812
Army, Private
Harry Thomas Dodd
1019
George Elmer Kemper
Navy, Comm., Chief Gunner
Ferdinand Isaac Halamuda, Sr. 2804
Army, Private
1014
Navy, Chief Commissary Steward
Frederick L. Lego
Navy, Yeoman, Second Class
Vietor Russell Hansen
2810
1016
Clyde Brooks Lewis
Army, Major
2805
Navy, Metalsmith, Second Class
Charles Hartmann
1018
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Marvin Port
2811
Army, Corpora_!
Lewis Frank Haynie
1017
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Norman Port
3372
Army, Private
Niels Jorgensen
1013
Navy, Chief·Commissary St.
Leonard R. Ware
2816
Navy, Lieut. J. G.
Lawrence Augustus King
Navy
NEEDLES No. 326
3418
Joseph George Novotny
Herman Calvin Baughn
1056
Navy, Chief Metalsmith
2807
Army, Captain
Kenneth Sylvester Perry
William Christian Kaiser
2921
Navy, Chief Carp. Mate
Army, Private
Clinton Searles
2813
Jack 'l'heodore Kelly
1057
Navy, Chief Commissary Steward
Navy, M. M., Second Class
Lyman Joseph Templin
2803
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
REDONDO No. 328
Forest Emerson Wreede
2815
Army, Private
John Randolph Carson
1712
Navy, Coxwain
COVINA No. 334
v ALLEE de FRANCE N'o: 329
3485
Randall Thornton Chew
Andre Louis Caen
1064
Navy, Ensign
Navy
3484
.Theodore Jacob Hoogandyk
Louis Vietor LaGarde
74
Army
Navy
3051
William Clyde King
Eugene Louis Lieois
73
Navy, Commander
Army, Private
3196
Edward Maurice Lavine Jr.
Jean M. Vergez
3346
Army, Major
Army, Private
3050
Elmer William Nigg
Navy, Ensign
PACIFIC GROVE No. 331
3483
Marion Houston Smyth
1117
Egbert Frank Bullenee
Army
Army, Colonel
3049
William Glen Southwell
1119
Elgin Blaine Hurlbert
Navy, Chief Electrician's Mate
Navy, First Lieutenant
1115
Richard Orison Kessler
WEST GATE No. 335
Army, Lieutena'1t
Vernon
Paul Beek
2590
2926
Rutherford Lynn Mann
Army, Private
Army, Major
Lazare Fred Bernh ard
2962
1726
Thomas L. Montgomery
Army, Second Lieutenant
Army, Master Sergeant
Bonhomme Magnus Cahn
3395
1116
Summers Ray Scott
Army, Privat"
Army, Tech. Sergeant
1638
Russel Loren (Jack) Hayes
1118
Ralph Schaefer Smith
Army, Captain
Navy, Chief Medical C.

3229
Shurley Nilo Hirshberg
'Army, Private
2589
Abraham Jacobson
Army, Captain
1643
Marshall Stanley L evin
Army, Private
1641
Max Lichtenstein
Navy, Chief Yeoman
164ll.
Harry William Link
Army, Corporal
Harry Jeremiah Mayer
3510
Army, Captain, Medical Corps
Edward Nemer
3230
Army, Private, J<'irst Class
3393
Conrad Platt
Army Tech. Sergeant
1639
Dr. Leonard Rosoff
Army, Captain, Medical Corps
2961
Harold Herbert Singer
Army, Private
Lawrence S. Simon
1644
Navy, Yeoman, Second Class
Dr. Norman William Sirott
3394
Coast Guard, Asst. Dental Surgeon
Lester Spencer
2591
Navy, Musician, First Class
1640
Irving Tuch
Army, Private
FRUITVALE No. 336
1866
Paul Armond Brom
Army, Captain
William Stewart Clark
1865
Army, Private, First Class
1872
Erhart · Goehry
Navy, Bandmaster
2896
Ernest Benjamin Harter
Navy, Motor M. M., Second Class
1980
Murten George Hiett
Army, Captain (Eng.)
1870
Arthur Clyde Kertell
Army, Sergeant
1871
Edward Theodore Magnus
Army, Sergeant
1873
Arthur Sigefredo Passero
Navyj Chief Pharmacist's Mate
1868
Ralph ames Robison .
Army, Private
1874
Ross Walter Robison
Army, Second Lieutenant
Harry John Rogie
l8 69
Navy, Yeoman, Second Class
Charles Wagar Russell
1867
Navy, Motor M. M., Second Class
Kenneth L. Tattersall
2288
Navy, Lieut. Commander
·
CARQUINEZ No. 337
1079
George Edgar Browning
Army
174
John Alden Clapp
Army, Major
2751
Charles Raymond Gray
Army, Private

·

Thomas H enderson Gray
Army, Private

45
1078

SAN JACINTO No. 338
1113
William V. Darling
Army, Lieutenant
2894
Sherman Evans Lewis
Navy. Chief Quartermaster
1114
Llovd E. Nichols
Navy, Lieutenant
OXNARD No. 341
Clovis Wyatt Baum
2824
Coast Guard, Chief Carp. Mate
Harold Haisch
3309
N9:vy, Pharm. Mate, First Class
Edwm Masturzo
493
Navy, B. M., Second Class
3310
Odil B. Morgan
Navy, P. M., Second Class
Garnett Gilbert Sell
492
Navy, Hosp. App., First Class
Terry Lee Spillman
2i94
Navy, Yeoman, Third Class
SAN FERNANDO . No. 343
2693
Darrell Ellsworth Beaver
Army, First Lieutenant
1136
Otis Black Crawford
Navy, Captain
1137
Eldon L eonard Nye
Marine Corps, Corporal
Walter Penman Stewart
1135
Navy, M. M., Second Class
STARR KING No. 344
2156
Sandrup Bernsen
Navy, Ensign
580
Sanford Leon Caro
Navy, Hospital Apprentice
1272
Sydney Julian Fass
Navy; Lieut. Commander
581
Harold Alfred Furst
Army, Captain, Inf.
582
Gustave Benning H offman
Army, Captain
Frederick H. Johanson
14 77
Army, Army Transport Service
Peter Jules Clarence Johnson 3439
Merchant Marine, Captain
583
George Earnest Morgan
Navy, Chief Signalman
1010
Albert Adshead Pope
Army, Aviation Instructor
B enjamin Henry Rapoport
584
Army, Sergeant
585
Walter Allen Reinhertz
Army, Tech. 4e'/ s
1011
Aaron Benderman
Army, Sergeant
2155
Axel Theod_or Swanson
Navy, Lieut. Commander

46

··

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Arthur Meade Geisler
597
586
:]!'ranklin Wright Tanner
Army, Captain
Navy
Leonard Willis Gifford
538
587
Stanley Donald Tanner
Marine Corps, Sergeant
Navy
Phillip Ralph Goetz
539
3330
.Kenneth Wayne
Army, Second Lieutenant
Army, Second Officer
Lowell Lee Hambleton
3512
BRENTWOOD No. 345
Army, Private
George Royal Himmelman
540
Clarence Lloyd Bever
296
Army, First Lieutenant
· · Army, Captain
Christopher Robert Hoag
541
PALO ALTO No. 346
Marine Corps, Platoon Sergean.t
1479
Adron A. Beene
Harold Chester Johnson
542
• Army, Lieutenant . '
Navy, Yeoman, Third Class
1297
Carroll Lynn Blackmer
Roy Philip MacDonald
543
Navy, Lieutenant
Army Major, A. C., Killed 3-9-41
1936
Willard John Classen
Herbert' William McMorine
2284
Army, Captain
Army, Private
1299
Clark Henry Godel
Howard William Neely
544
Army, Captain, Inf.
Navy, Lieut. Commander ·
1298
Frank Fay Hornkohl
Bayard Sigfrid Parker ·
.
3233
Army, Captain
Navy Mail Clerk, First Class
1480
Donald E. Liebendorfer
Raymo~d Robert Ribal
546
. · Navy, Lieut. S. G. .
Army, Captain
Kenneth Raymond McDougall 1481
David Forrest Robinson
.
54p
Captain
Army, Private First Class
1478
Farrall Harman Moore
Glen David Sizer
547
Navy, Lieut., Medical Corps
Army, Corporal
·
Thomas B. Morrow
,
1295
Guy Edmund Manning Steacy 2404
Army, First Lieutenant
Army, First Lieutenant
1934
Dole Ford Thomson •
Fred Henry Warnecke
3232
. Navy, Lieuten;i.~t
Army, Private
1294
Henry Edward T1mby ·
Charles Clinton Young
2405
· . Army, First Lieutenant
.A rmy, Captain, Eng. Corps.
1482
Roy Steward Tod .
Army, Captain
PALESTINE No. 351
1935
Franklin Irving Walker
1263
William
Russell Borden
,,. Army, Private
Navy, Seaman
McKINLEY - No. 347
1258
Chester Machean Detrick
2471
Edward James Garrard .
Navy
1256
Benjamin Roland Jordan
, . Navy, Storekeeper,, Third Class
1002
Army, Second Lieutenant
·Led Upton Haley ·
2062
Donald Edwin Kelly
,. Army, ·second Lieutenant, A. C.
'2470
Army, Private
·Baldwin James Petersen
1261
Ralph A. Laird
.. Army, Corporal
. ·
1001
Navy, Lieut., S. G.
·:Robert James Roberts.on
1259
Joseph DeWitt Maher
Army, Lieut. Colonel ;,
Navy
SEQUOIA No. 349
1262
Donald Hugh Reves
Radford King Arner .
533
Army, Sergeant
1
Na vy1 Ensign
.
• •• •
· 1255
Daniel Horace Swann
-Oeorge Washington .Baldwin 246_7
Marine Corps
Navy Specialist, Fi-r st Class Mail
1257
Karl Robert Tuttle
'Howard Leon Burdick Jr. ·
. 534
. Army, Corporal
1260
Army, Private
Leonard Thomas Wilson
.John Leroy Duguid
·.
632
Army, Lieutenant
Marine Corps, Priv·a te, First Cla11s
1254
Donald Murray Winters
Carleton Howard Dunn Jr, '
. 536
Anny, Corporal
Marine Corps,: Private, First Class
Elmer Gordon Fletcher · ' ·
2402
SUNSET No. 352
Army, Captain/ Medical Corps
1103
Eddie
J.
Cohen
Robley Evans Flynn • ·
2403
Army,
Corporal
Army, First · Liehte-nant

GRAND LODGE OF CAiLIFORNIA

Bryant James Dodge
Navy, Storekeeper
Harold Brochen Longfellow
Army, Major
Jack Boden Rogers
Army, First Lieutenant

1101
2945
1102

PINOLE No. 353
574
Woodrow Wilson Atchison
Navy, Petty Officer, Second Class
575
Compton J. Gault
Army, First Lieutenant
576
Thomas Walter Piequet
Army, Second Lieutenant
577
Charles Weldon Thomas
Army, Captain
578
Martin Russell Thomas
Navy, Petty Officer, Second Class
PRESIDIO No. 354
2785
Claude Andrew Church
Merchant Marine, Eng.
2084
Max Akin Elser
Army, Colonel
2193
William McPherson Fitzhugh
Navy, Lieut. Commander
2083
Charles Robert Hake
Navy, Ensign
2079
Cecil Forest Hickman
Navy, Storekeeper, First Class
3438
Harry A. Humes
Army, Private
2081
Dan Obradovich
Army, Private
.
Alexander 'B, O'Rourke
2078
Army, ,Captain
2085
Clyde Melvin Parker
·Navy, Lieutenant, J. G.
2082
Hubert Luther . Redemeyer
Navy, tiE/utenant
2086
Walter David Reed ·
Navy, Warrant Carp.
3222
Carroll Philip Thweatt
Army, Captain
2080
William Henry Tootill
Army, Staff Sergeant
3221
Vladimir Vucinich
Army, Lieut., A. C.
2077
Emil .Gethard Wunner
Navy, Lieut. Commander
2192
Herbert Bartlett Wyman
Navy, Midshipman
HOLLYWOOD No. 355
Richard Thomas Black
1773
Army, Major
Horace Bloxom Buchan
1774
Army, Second Lieutenant
Francis . Homer Cassil
1775
Army, Capt. in Ferry Command
Clarence Vinton Clark
2114
Navy, Petty Officer, First Class·

47

1777
Frank Albert Clark
Army, Corporal
1777
Edwin David Cooke
Army, Capt. (Chemical Warfare)
1938
Robert Lee Dennis
Army, Captain, .M. P.
1778
Thomas Edmonds Doey
Navy, Lieut. (J. G:)
2111
Henry Alden Hayungs
Army, Captain
.
2115
William D. D. Jackson
Army, Captain
1939
Eduard Lee Krummel
Arniy, First Lieutenant
2963
Mortimer Treat Larter
Army, Private
.
1942
Frederic W. C. Ledeboer
Army, Captain
2279
John Herman Luebsen
Army, Lieut. Colonel
2116
Marlin Clack Martin
Army, Colonel
.
1940
Paul Francis Morrison
Army, Eng. Div.
2400
Maxwell Carleton Pellish
Army, Major
1941
Richard Barnes Stith
Army, Major
2117
James Thomas Strohn
''Army, Second Lieutenant
2320
Vernon William Thews
Army, Captain
2964
Orville Raymond Tibbitts
Army, Private
Lloyd Atwood Walker
2965
Army, Mapor, Air Corps
MILL VALLEY No. 356
Andrew William Bloomquist
362
Army, Tech. Sergeant
Donald Lee Bul'beck ·
2941
Navy, Warrant Ojlicer
Alton Eugene Case
363
Navy, Coast Guard
Clarence Edward Clapp
364
Arm~ First Sergeant
William Angus Hamilton
365
Marine Corps, Captain
Edwin H. Hildebrand
1626
Navy, Lieut., J. G.
Harold Sidney Johnson,
366
Army, Colonel
Dwight Livingston Merriman
3378
· Army, First Lieutenant
Charles John McQuillan.
367
Army, Major
Silas Newton Parks
368
Army, Sergeant
James Eustace Powell
2468
Army, First Lieutenant
Laurence Harold Rubke
369
Army, Private

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Frank J. Schaal
Army, Major
William George Seaver
Navy, Ensign
Elliot Wesley Seymour
Navy, Lieut., J. G.
Richard Vivian Sloan
Army, Captain
Rupert Edison Starr
Army, Major
George Monroe Stutzman
Army, Private

370
2942

2446
2447

3379
371
372
3380

BUENA PARK No. 357
1570
Ralph Garrett LaRue
Army, Major
GOLDEN STATE No. 358
854
Lawrence Kirk Beaver
Navy, Lieutenant
2274
Peter DePaolo
Army, Captain, Air Corps
Gustave Stanley Hinckel
1822
Army, Air Corps, 405th Sq.
Wllliam Paul Kretschmer
858
Navy, Machinist's Mate
1429
Alexander Kusebauch
Navy, Lieutenant
Frederick William Pretz
857.
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
2230
John Procter
Navy, Lieut. S. G.
1821
Henry Frederick Rees
Army, Captain
1430
Bertram Edward Sandham
Navy, Lh:iutenant
Fred Lincoln Spooner
1109
Navy, Seaman, First ct~ss
1713
Richard Leslie Stough
Army, Second Lieutenant
855
George Howard , Whellen ·
Army, Private
Eddie Wyllie Yates Jr.
856
Navy, First Class Storekeeper
George Moore Zugschwerdt
3241
Navy, Pharm. Mate, Secoil\l Class
SAN FRANCISCO No. 360
James Brackston McQuinn Jr. 3587
.. ~rmy, Private
'
Walter Oswald
3588
Army, First Lieutenant
Andrew Grant Smith
3589
Army, Private
FORT BRAGG No. 361
William Francis Sloane Cannarr 439
Navy, Lieutenant Jr. Gra.de
CHARITY No. 362
Merlin Joseph Bohnett
Army, Private First Class

Dean Ralph Chamberlin
Army, Corporal
Harry Damon Evans
Navy, Chief Petty Officer

GRAND LODGE OF: CALIFORNIA

3'235

BERKELEY No. 363
'W illiam Henry Adams
1582
Army, Captain
Le Roy Bartlett
1583
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Le Roy Bartlett Jr.
1584
Army, Captain
Lyall Olivet Bishop
1585
Navy, Lieutenant Jr. Grade
James Albright Brasfield
'1586
Army, Private
William Earle Davies
1587
Navy, Lieutenant
Stanley Spencer Davis, M. D. 1959
Navy, Lieutenant
Gordon Edgar deBruyn
3350
Army, Private
Harold Joseph Doebler
1588
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Gerald Francis Fitzgerald
1589
Army, Corporal
Frederick Gray Gibbons
2712
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Edward John Hardy
1780
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Frank Sutter Link
2532
Navy, Qaptain
James Branner Melton
1590
Army, First Lieutenant
Harold Louis Morian
1591
Army, Major, Eng. Corpps
Stanley Noble Partridge
1592
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
James Emmons Pemberton
1593
Army, Major, Infantry
Edwin Hartley Roberts
1594
Navy, Midshipman
William George Schaefer
· 1781
Coast Guard, Warrant Officer
Ephraim Salisbury Totten
1595
Navy, L)eutenant Jr. Grade
Arthur Lafayette Warren
1596
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Ernest Stark Wise
2469
Private, Army
LAS P ALMAS No. 366
Harold Eugene Agnew
1060
Army, Private·
Ralph Kurtz Chappell
95
Captain, State Militia
Fred Lars Christiansen
3602
Navy, Private (P. 0. Clerk)
Kenneth Tobin Craycroft
93
·A:rmy, Captain
Jule Michael Creagh
94
Army, Captain

William Boaz Dick
81
Army, Lieutenant Dent. Corps
Paul James Dowling
92
Army, Colonel
91
Cecil Eli Edgar
Army, Captain
William Everett Furze
90
Army, Lieutenant, Med. Corps
Donald Fulton Gates
3601
Coast Guard, Private
Howard Chester Green
89
Army, Private
Max Mendenhall Hayden
3598
Army, Private
Ray Wilson Hays
88
Army, Colonel ·
Samuel Lawrence Heisinger, Jr. 87
Army, Captain, J. A. G. Dept.
Jam es Guy Huggins
86
Army, Private
William Gilbert Johnson
3597
Coast Guard
Winther Jorgensen
'85
Army, Private
Claude James Lisle
84
Army, Air Corps ·
Baysel Moyers
3600
Army, Private
Winslow Harrison Murray
3595
Army, Private
Ernest Marvin Myers
2052
Army, Army Intel!.
Fergus Kenneth Smith
83
Army ·
Milton Willard Terrill
3596
Army, Captain, Air Corps
Daniel Arthur Winters
3599
Army, Private
Eugene Hamilton Wood
82
Army, Lieutenant
SO PASADENA No. 367
Frederick Hastings Bosbyshell 819
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
George Marion Bryant
1855
Army, Private
John Lawrence Cameron
1428
Navy, Lieutenant Jr. Grade
Glenville Arthur Collins
3204
Army, Major
Frank .Owen Conner
1709
Army, Private
Perry Clark Conner
1710
Navy, Ensign
William Franklin Grimes
818
Navy, Commander
Oliver Charles Hardy
722
Army, First Lieutenant M. P.
Robert Don Helms
723
Army, Private Second Class
John Low Hutchinson
2592
Army, Private

49

Everett Earll Kinzer
820
Navy, Lieutenant Sr. Grade
Elmer Colliston Page
724
Army, Private
Major Roswell Rix
2593
Army, Private
Wayne Hilton Webster
997
Army, Technician 4th Grade
Edwin Byron Wolford
725
Army, Major
William Ross Woodburn
726
Navy, Chief Elect. Mate
Thomas Alexander Wright
727
Army, Privat e
UNITY No. 368
Christian Andersen
Army, Private
Jay -Jonathan DeVoe
Army, Lieutenant
Robert Malcolm Gaddis
Private, Army
Clarence Rhodes Gill
Army, Sergeant
Charles Archie Hubbard
Army, Major, Air Corps
William Hawkins Hubbard
Army, Captain
Henry Mooney
Navy, Coxswain
Donald Hardy Packer
Army, Major
Arnold Raymond Seifert
Navy
Miller B. Towman
Army, I,ieutenant Colonel

1706
1703
1702
1711
1705
1704
1707
1708
2631
1919

OCEAN PARK No. 369
Warner Theodore Betts
2094
Navy, Qarpenter Mate 3d Cl.
Richard Vickers Fisher
1722
Navy, Chief Shipfitter 1st Cl.
Ray · L. Gabbard
2825
Army, Private
Jack A. Greig
1717
Army, Private First Class
Joseph Hall Hearne
1716
Nav-y, Chief Petty Officer
John L. Lee
1720
Army
Frank Chester Otto
1721
Army, First Lieutenant
Stanley Monroe Posner
1715
Carpenters Mate Third Class
Joseph Saylin
1718
Army, Colonel
Harrison Cleves Symmes
1719
Navy, Jr. Lieut. Jr. Grade
AMITY No. 370
Frank He1·schel Campbell
Army, First Lieutenant

3385

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Arthur Carlson
3386
Coast Gd., Chf. Btswn's. Mate
William .James Carpomill
3317
Army, Automotive Advisor
David Richie Girdwood
2882
Army, Major
Paul Francis Graham
2918
Army
Charles Raymond Haines
2881
Army
John Arthur Bruce Hay Jr.
3383
Coast Guard
. J;tobert James 'Kevie
3318
Army
Martin Larsson
3384
C. G., Chf. Boatswain's Mate
John Waugh Luby
2883
Navy
Otto James Mattas
3319
Army
John Donald Mitchell
2916
Arnl..)'', Corporal ·
Lyle Joseph O'Connell
3030
Army, Technical Sergeant
Wendell DesErmia Phillips
2919
Army, Lieutenant
G.o rdon Walter Ridley .
2917
Army, Officers Training School
William Christian Scheuver
2920
Army
LE PROGRES DE L 'OCEANIE
N o. 371
Royal William Abbott
1316
Army, Lieutenant Commander
Wilhelm Arthur Anderson
1317
Army, Colonel
August Frank Balawenci.er
1318
Navy, Mach~nist Mat"e
Henry Livingston
1319
Army, Major
David Alexander Blank
1320
Army, First Sergt. Infantry
Lavern Andrew Bordwell
132i
Navy, Seaman
William Albert Boyen
1322
Army, J.,ieutenant
Paul Leonardo Burgher
1323
Navy, Sailor
George Warren Clark
2979.
Navy, Lieµt. Commander
~enry Davison Clark
1984
Navy, Ensign
Nathan Ford Clark
1938
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Ponald Orrie Crozier
1324
· Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Joseph Bartholemae Danhoff
1326
Lieutena'n t, Navy
Michael Dale
i325
Navy, Naval Electrician

Orrin Joe Davisson
2981
Army, Sergeant
Alfred Job Evans
1327
Navy, Sailor
Robert Bert l''aus
1328
Army, Major, Medical Corps
Eugene Edward Finch
1329
Army, Air Corps, Mechanic
Earl Frederick Frandsen
1330
Army, Private
Clarence Elmer Fronk
1331
Army, Major, Medical Corps
Guy Harrison Gale
1332
Army, Major
Levi Orville Gates
1333
Army, Major
Selby Abbott Gilpin
1334
Navy, Electrician
James Leo Goulding
1335
Navy
Edwin Jay Greene
1985
Army, Sergeant
William Helmuth Gropp
1986
Army, Insp. of Construction
Harry Victor Hartsell Jr.
1987
Navy, Sailor·
Henry Emil Hertner
1988
Army, Lieutenant
Joseph Vernon 'Hodgson
1989
Army, Major
Benjamin Franklin Houck '
1990
. Navy, Yeoman
Leslie Dean Justus
1991
Marine Corps, Serg.e ant
Albert Edwin Kennedy
1992
Navy
Garnett Andrew King
1993
Navy, Machinist's Mate
John Henry Kneiling
1994
Navy
Ernest Pierson Lewis
1995
Navy, Chief Radioman
Dpnald Moulton MacArthur
1996
Navy'
Alfred Vincent Brady Marrin 1997
Navy, Sailor
John MariOI\ McCants
1999
Navy, Medical Officer
George Henry Miller
1998
Army, Technical Sergeant
Hedley Barry Morris
· 2980
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Nelson Wilmur Raymond
2000
Army" Captain Intel!. Dept.
William Ferdinand Scheumann 2001
Army, Major
.
Hugh Lee Shu-r den
2002
Navy, Radioman
Perry Meyers Smoot
2003
Army, . Col,onel
Alan Henry Strike
2004
Army, Captain

GRAll!D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Byron Mules Threlkeld
Navy
Martin Kenneth Thomas
Navy, Petty Officer
Thomas Gregory Tracy, Jr.
Army, First Lieutenant
David Earl Wilson
Navy
Stanley Alfred Wohler
Navy
George Woskow
Army, Sergeant Major
GARDENA No. 372
Donald William Barsch
Army, Private
Earl Wakefield Clark
Army, Captain, Air Corps
Charles Sylvanus Gorham
Army, First Lieutenant
Earl DeFries Munson
Coast Guard, F. 1. C. U. S.

2006
2005
2007
2008
2009
2010

2060
3228
2061
3227

WEST L. A. N o. 373
Morris Ruben Abrams
641
Ma.rine Corps, Tech. Sergeant
John Frederick Roberts
2460
Army, Private Eng. Corps
Robert Louis Stephens ·
797
Army, Private First Class
.JEWEL No. 374
John Charles 'Lawlor, Jr.
Army, Aviation Cadet

238

RICHMOND No. 375
Duncan Harold Cameron
· 2684
Navy, Lieutenant
Harold Benn Hocking
2922
Second Lieut., Air Corps
Wayne Shelton Julien
2686
Navy, Yeoman Second CI!ss
Edward Robert Lutley
2685
Army; Tech .. 5th .Gr. Corp,
FRANCIS DRAKE No. 376
Nathan Alde'r
1035
~avy, Unknown
William Joseph Jessep
266
. Navy
Raymond Spagnola ·
265
Navy
Max Steiner
267
Navy ·
Curtis Lee Swan, Jr.
1958
Army, First Lieutenant
Hollis Switzer
1142
Navy
Richard Maxmillian Zemke
1376
Army, First Lieutenant

ARTESI A No. 377
William Earle Jenkins
Army, Sergeant
Charles John Schork
Navy, Lieutenant

2700
2701

MIZPAH No. 378
William Hershey Shopp
1020
Navy, Water Tender 1st Class
Challmer Alfred ·Sitts
1022
Navy, Water Tender 1st Class
Edgar Langdon SJeeth
1021
Navy, Lieutenant, Med. Corps
William Alfred Weigel
1023
Army, Stenotype Operator
FILLMORE No. 379
John B. Burson
Army, Private
Robert Charles Fischer
Army, Aviation Cadet'
Ernest Irving Harper
Army, FiPst Sergeant
Edmond William Rainbolt
Navy, 3d Cl. Comm. Mate
OCEANSIDE . No. 381
George Leon Cory
Navy, Lieutenant (J. G.)

1581
1074
1077
1075

1366

HIGHLAND P ARK No. 382
Bruce Bertram Bender
682
Navy, Hospital Apprentice
Willson Charles Clark
683
Navy, Seaman
Francis Minton
2486
Navy, Elect. Mate 2d Class
Milton Fred Nuremberg
3584
Army, Captain, Air Corps
Wilfred Elsea Richards
· 681
Army, Private
Roland Frederick Schulze
3583
Marine Corps, Private ·
684
Clifford Montague Shaw
Marine Corps, Private
Herman Toedter
2023
C. G., Btswain's Mate 1st Cl.
EL CENTRO No. 384
Alfred Nicholas Bisgard
Marine Corps, Lieutenant
Norman Ernest Dupont
Army, Lieutenant
George Raymond Jenner
Army, Private First Class
Lyman William Tondro·
Army, Captain

1852
1853
1854
1937

PARNASSUS No. 388
James William Darling
. 1530
Navy, Ship Cook First Class

52

GRAND LODGE O F\ CAjLIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Reuben H eywood Hunt
1527
Navy, Lieutenant Com mander
George Henry Jacobsen
1524
Navy, Lieutenant Jr. Grade
Kempton Harvey McCarthy
1537
Army, Sergeant
Brock Wesley RobHn
1529
Coast Guard, Chf. Radio Man
Joseph Lamond Ross
1526
Army, Major
Ray Alva Truman
1528
C. G., Radio Man First Class
James F ranklin Walker
1525
Navy, Mach. Mate First Class
PALOS VERDES No. 389
Frank Clarence Blair, Jr.
3352
Navy
Herbert Edwin Bromley
·3357
Navy
George Wilson Coupe
2890
Navy
Earl Edward Evans
3366
Navy
John Edward Fox
3353
Army
Walter F . Good
3364
Navy
Alfred Heathcote
3354
Army
Frederic A us tin Millerd
3369
Army
John Eugene Mixer
3365
Navy
Merle Lyndell Morrison
2891
Army
Harry Willis Prout
3355
Army, Major
Oliver Powell Roemer
3363
N avy
Walter Gustave Schultz
3356
Navy
Percy Criehton Scott
3357
Army, Ma jor
Edwin Jack Siepe
3368
Navy
George Alexander Simpson
3362
Navy
Walter Charles Smallwood
3358
Navy
Charles Thomas Smith
3390.
Army, First Lieut., Air Corps
Floyd Clair Smith
3359
Army, Corporal
Lyman Boniface Sutter
3360
Army, First Lieutenant
Byron George Thomas
3361
Navy
EAST BELT No. 391
1957
P err Frank Baker
Army, Private

Ross Woodard Baker
Army, Privato
Ernest D ebbes Hodge
Navy, Lieutenant
Lloyd Noel Hodge
Army, Private

1543
120
1165

WEST LAKE No. 392
Graham Allen
1837
Navy, Lieutenant
Pierre Curran Bayne
3556
Army, Lieut. Col., Mech. Cav.
Beverly Fleming Bolling
3555
Army, Captain, T.r ansp. Corps
David Hart Booth
2791
Army, Private
David Boyd
183~
Army, Elect. Engineer
James Louis Evans
2148
Army, Engineer Corps
George D. Hamilton
1859
Marine Corps, Major
Robert Randall Jacobs
1848
Army
George Nash Khier ·
1851
Army
Otto Joseph Lingenfelser
1838
Navy, Navy Const. Dept.
David Stoddard· Lockie
3574
Army, Private
William Shuey Osterholt
1835
Army, Storekeeper 3d Class
P eter Christian P etersen
1849
Army, Technical Sergeant
Cha rles Hambelton Scott
1850
Army, Major
George L ouis Uman
2386
Army, Captain
John Nelson Wilson
1975
Army, Hospital Appr. 1st Cl.
UNIVERSITY No. 394
1432
Stanley' ~enneth Burgess
Army, Major
1431
Alexander Alan 'Clark
Navy, Yeoman, Second Class
2328
Edwin Zane Dixon
Navy, Lieuten ant
1434
William Clinton Hardin
Army, Signal Corps
1433
Carter Franklin Moore
Army, Second Lieutenant
1435
Harvey John Schroeder
Navy, Lieutenant
1436
Elza John Shafer
Navy, Chief Storek eeper
TURLOCK No. 395
Carl Robert Ahei;
Navy, Lieutenant
L eonard L . McGee
Army, Major

1383
1385

Robert William Munyon
Army, Lieutenant
Alfred C. Rageth
Army, Private
James Harold Smith
Army, Lieutenant
Eric Emanuel Swadell
Army, First Lieutenant
John Victor Wallen
Army, Major, Air Corps
APOLLO No. 396
Raymond Edward Barbour
Marine Corps
George Brown
Navy
Walter Champion
Army, Major
Edward Philip Davison
Army
Henry Campbell Harris
Navy
John Joseph Meegan
Navy, Lieutenant
James Macdonald Rattray
Army, Major
E. Vernon Sheafe
Army, Doctor
FRATERNITY No. 399
Robert Brower Cragin
Army, Major (M. D.)
Hiram Smith O'Kelley
Army, Privato
Neil Hobart Schellbach
Army, Private
Edward Robert Tran
Army» Technical Sergeant

1514
2915
1483
2820
1384

559
560
561
2330
562
563
2329
564

1600
1599
2635
3409

BURLINGAME No. 400
William A. Boekel
2722
Army, Lieutenant Colonel F. A.
Albert Adolph Boewe
3586
Navy, Lieutenant (J. G.)
George Robert Bower
1703
Army, Captain
Arthur Henry !)ittmann
116
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Anderson Edward Eltwood Jr.
334
Navy, Radioman Third Class
John Hamilton Ferns
118
Army, Captain
Walter James Gilliam Jr.
117
Army, Corporal
Walter James· Gilliam Sr.
804
Army, Lieutenant ,
Frederic Ormond Glover
280
Navy, Lieutenant
Charles Phillip Ivens
278
Navy, Ensign D. V. (S)
Harry Myron Lehrfeld
1437
Coast Guard, Yeoman
Third Class

Dodd Maxwell McRae
Army, Captain
Frank Goodrich Stoner
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Classman Delwin Warner
Navy, Lieutenant

53
279
333
281

BAY VIEW LODGE No. 401
Roy Brice Brown'
3169
Army
William H a uley Cady
755
Navy, Gunner
E lmer Eaton Curtis
756
Navy, Captain (M. C.)
Lawrence Cyril Freund
2884
Navy
Lloyd Alton Hasha
2885
Army
Frank Hindrelet
757
Navy
George Edward Kimble
2653
Army
Louis C. Levy
926
Army
Tony Martin
913
Navy
Norman Ellwood Milla r
1544
Navy
Clifford Miner Nash
2654
Army
John Alfred Olds
758
John Wilber Short
759
Fred Vernon Stambaugh
914
Marine Corps
William John Watson
760
Navy
John Robert White
761
Navy, Commander
BRAWLEY LODGE No. 402
Donald Perry Brownell
1081
Army, Private
Jean Hiland
2147
Army, Private
Carl Albin Jacobson
3323
Army, Private·
YERBA BUENA LODGE No. 403
Frank Gibson Adams
1198
Army, Major, Inspector
General's Dept.
Leslie Hall Boyd
2713
Army, Second Lieutenant
Douglas Stewart Chase
1502
Navy, Lieutenant (J. G.)
Clyde Frap.k Fake
2694
Navy, Ensign
Irvin Martin Hansen
2740
Navy, Lieutenant
Chester Norman Harden
1438
Army, Private
Matthew Edward Howells
2277
Coast Guard, Chief
Electrician's Mate

54

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lawrence Horton Keating
2393
Navy, Fire Contro1man
Third Class
Jerome Worthy Kintner
1439
Navy, Ensign
Ralph 'l'homas Kerchnm
3585
I';avy, Ensign
William Bernhard Kloss
1202
Army, Staff Sergeant
William David Lawrence
2633
Marine Corps, Private
William Calvin Mathews
1503
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Lester Stafford McElwain
1200
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
Harvey Mercer
1203
Navy, Radioman Second Class ·
Orlando Richard Pettebone
1201
Army, First Lieutenant
Edward Frederick Schneider
2718
Army, Private
Chester George Smith
2655
Marine Corps, First Lieut.
Robert Leroy Thorburn
1199
Army, Second Lieutenant
BURBANK LODGE No. 406
Harold Mount Chandler
1577
Navy, Lieut. Comdr., M . .c.
LA MESA LODGE No. 407
James F. Brower
200
Army, Major
Harry Alonzo Bryan
169
Navy, Senior Grade Lieut.
Charles Canfield Budd
199
Army, Captain
Loy Lorenz Flor
170
Army, Corporal
Edwin Godard Gimble
1112
Navy, Chief Radioman
Vahakn Lucas Hart
1111
Navy, Carpenter Mate 2d Cl.
Lndolf Frederick Jensen
2985
Marine Corps, Second Lieut.
Kenneth Lawyer McKinney
2984
Navy, Specialist First Class
Willie 0. Towler
198
Navy, Pharm. Mate First Cl.
William H. Woods
171
Navy, Pharm. Mate First Cl.

Harold Stingley Campbell
Navy, Lieutenant (J. G.)
Harry :t.:enas Colvin
Ni.vy, Lieutenant (J . . G.)
Lloyd Robert Gray
l';avy, Commander
Francis Hookamomi
Army, Major
Lawrence Archie Kurtz
Army, Lieutenant Colonel

1576
1559
2164
1578
2161

George J. Dolbier
Army, Private
Ernest Eugene .Rosecrans Jr.
Army, l'rivate
George M. Smith
Army, Private, Air Corps
James Edward Thomasson
Army, Corporal, Air Corps
Theodore Bernard Weiz
Navy

1668
494
1647
1646
3192

Milton Henry Thompson
Navy
KERMAN No. 420
Harry Schmal!
Army, Corporal

55
2544

1253

INGLEWOOD No. 421
James Edward Hynes
2064
Army, Sergeant
Ernest Glenn Underwood
2063
Navy, Lieutenant Commander

CHARTER ROCK No. 410
Albert Sylvester Bowler
140
Army, Private
Stanley Diamond
141
Army, Second Lieutenant
George Parke Pell
2012
Army, Major A. C.
Jack Lewis Pryor
139
Coast Guard, Storekpr. Sec. Cl.
Reuben William Smith Jr.
138
Army, Major

LINDSAY No. 416
Lee Henely Clearman
Army, Staff Sergeant
Bert H. Gimblin
Army, Captairr
Hiram Kenton Glenn
Navy
Roland Edward Strawford
Canadian Army, Corporal
Raymond Rolland Tourtillott
Army, Colonel

CALEXICO LODGE No. 412
Thayer Lawton Brown
100
Army, Private
Thomas Taylor Buffington
101
Army, Private
Carroll Cleveland Campbell
99
Navy, Yeoman Second Class
Mathias Acosta Contreras .
1404
Navy, Second Lieutenant
Chas. Page Delp
1062
Army, Major
Carl Frederick Eifler
1956
Army, Major

CLOVIS No. 417
William Cole Estill
3239
Army, Technical Sergeant
Charles Lillard Graybill
3238
Army, First Lieutenant
Donald James Miller
2398
Navy, Radioman Second Class
Clayton Ira Pendergrass
2397
Navy, Lieutenant
Lowell Joseph Stephenson
2399
Navy, Lieutenant
William Henry Washburn
2977
Coast Guard, Apprentice Seaman

WAUCOBA LODGE No. 413
Howard Russel King
3342
Navy, Chief Elec. Mate

ELYSIAN No. 418
Curtis Marshall Atwell
2107
Army, Private
Milton Roger Brewer
2549
Army, Private
Loa Albert Bullard
1534
Navy, Electrician's Mate
Edgar Allen Chitwood
1535
Army, Captain
Albert Edward Edwards
1531
Navy, Lieutenant
William Luther Hill
2550
Navy, Petty Officer Secon-d Class
James Gerred Ruckle
1533
Army, Captain
Winston Schaefer
1532
Navy, Chief Specialist
George Louis Schwach
3141
Army, Private
Stanley George Walker
1536
Navy, Elec. Mate Second Class

EXETER No. 424
Clarence John Clark
1406
Army, Private
'rom Bristol Coughran
1440
Army, First Lieutenant
Hubert Kenneth McNees
598
Army. Lieutenant, Air Corps
Robert Bruce Montgomery Jr. 2801
Army, 2nd Lieutenant Air Corps

UPLAND . No. 419'
Alonzo lifartin Davis ·
. Army, Private
Thomas Franklin Pollock
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.

HOLTVILLE No. 425
Wilfred Dressor Dressor
2044
Army, Major, Infantry
John Fulton Eckert
3571
Army, Captain, Medical Corps.

SIERRA MADRE LODGE No. 408
Paul Natha:riiel Carter
476
Navy, Lieut. Senior Grade
Benjamin Malcolm Lyon Jr,
~74
N;:ivy, Radioman Second- Class
Shirley Livingston Sadler
475
Marine Corps, Captain
Benjamin Sylvester Stinman
477
Navy, Chief Elec. Mate

ARLINGTON LODGE No. 414
Wellington Dallas Dillinger
979
Army, Captain
Joe William Erven
980
Ensign, Navy
Ormond Craig Fowler
981
Navy, Air Cadet
Ch€ster Elbert Mitchell
982
Army, Captain Infantry
Car 1. Raymond Neilsen
983
Coast Guard, Seaman Sec. Cl.
Clifford Vernon Oje
984
Army, Lieutenant Air Corps
Robert Montgomery Phillips
985
Army, Captain Infantry
Tom Sakajian
986
Army, Private
Dudley Simmons
987
Navy, Lieutenant

HONOLULU LODGE No. 409
Thomas· Merrett Arrowsmith
2160
Navy, Chief Machinist

Lysle H. Baas
Army, Major, Air Corps ·

SILVER TROWEL LODGE No. 415
1648

31
30
3500
29
907

71
72

EAGLE ROCK NO. 42:2
Carl George Arnold
653
Army, l!'irst Lieutenant
Raymond Travis Bean
654
Army, Private, Q. M. C.
Tad Carter
1210
Navy, C. C. Std. (C. P. 0.)
655
Ralph Otto Cragin
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
John David Dillon
656
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Sidney Conrad Hall
658
Army, Captain
2281
Bertram Matthew Potter
Navy, Warrant Elect.
John Morrow Rach
659
Army, Private
094
Robert Earl Tiffany
Navy, Printer Third Class
Theodore Roosevelt W'allace
1405
Navy, Radioman Second Class
Edward DeLoss Washburn
3245
Navy, Boatswain's Mate 2nd Class
Edward Gaylord Wheeler
993
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
YORK No. 423
William Alvord Mecham
1512
Army, Officers Training School
Forest Wilber Reifsnyder
850
Navy, Shipfitter Third Class
Arthur Johnson Sawyer
3147
Navy, Ca1·penter's Mate 2nd Class
Arnold Donald Thornton
1513
Army, Signal Corps

56

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Charles Edwin Gillett
Army, First Lieutenant
Earl Frederick Hunick
Army, Private

2043
2045

MIDWAY No. 426
Charles Elton Costello
3471
Navy
Scott Edward Ellett
3152
Navy, C. M. I. C.
John Franklin Gibbs
3151
Boatswain's Mate, Second Class
Warren Weber Newkirk
3470
Navy, Ensign
Thomas Quicksel Stewart Jr.
1858
Army, Private
Gordon Taylor
3469
Coast Guard, Lieutenant J. G.
Frank Harlow Wright
1857
Army, First Lieutenant
CHINO VALLEY No. 427
Malcom Macy Woodhead
2401
Navy
McCLOUD No. 430
Otis Sanders Olson
Army, Private
Robert Theodore Willock
Army, Technical Sergeant

2989
2990

ALPHA No. 431
1797
Olen D'ale Davis
Navy, Lieutenant
John William Lee
3403
Navy, Storekeeper First Class
Joseph Herbert Lee
2702
Army, Captain
Armen Nazareth Mardiros
996
Army, Captain
John Ernest Tullock
3402
Navy, Coxswain
HAMMONTON No. 433
2899
Wilbur Arthur Brown
Army, Private
MARICOPA No. 434
Raymond Harry Bethel
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
William Dienstien
Army, Technical Sergeant
Dwight Tolles Doolittle
Navy, Ensign, Air Corps
Mervin Sidney W'atkins
Marine Corps
CLAREMONT No. 436
John White Brooks
Army, First Lieutenant
Frank Ross Campbell
Navy, Ships Serv. 1st Class
Caspar Thomas Gee
Army, Asst. Storekeeper

2391
557
558
3328

3032
1571
1031

Charles Chute Gill
2146
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Wilbur Elwood Kellum
1572
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Robert Floyd Reynolds
2099
Navy, First Clase Seaman
Erle! Verner Simon
2822
Army, First Lieutenant
Walter Howard Tooker
2191
Navy, Quartermaster First Class
LANCASTER No. 437
Robert Lewis Bliss
803
Army, First Lieutenant
Eldridge Rhoades Faulkner
485
Army, Air Cadet
Robert Templin Hubbard
801
Army, Private
1625
Vernon Earl Maddox
Army, Private
2906
James Healy Shear
Navy, Ships Cook Second Class
2905 ·
John Cecil Storm
Navy, Master Mach. First Class
802
Gene August Wolz
Army, Pri.vate
TYRIAN No. 439•
David T. Brownell
Army
Thomas Edgar Ferneau
Navy, Lieutenant
Charles Homer Whelan
Army, Sergeant

342
340
341

CORONADO No. 441
Randle Woodford Alcorn Jr. 1441
Marine Corps
Kenneth William Bandel
1442
Army, Captain
Hugh Aubrey Blanks
1443
Marine Corps, M. T. Sergeant
James Bertrand Butcher
1444
Navy, C. P. 0.
Reid Edgerton. Coble
1445
Nav;i1, A. M. I. C.
Kenneth Bertin Copsey
1440
Marine Corps
Roy Freed Crews
1447
Navy
William Neal Darroch
1448
Navy
Edwin Arnold Eddiegarde
1449
Navy, Commander
William Henry Farrel
1450
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
BLACKMER No. 442
Donald Loree Barley
2110
Navy, Lieutenant, Naval Reserve
w·arren Lynn Barnes
1664
Navy, Chie:f Boatswain's Mate
Lawrence Bennett
1800
Navy, Commander, U. S. N.

Bailey Clarke Bothe
2538
Navy, 0. W. T. (ltet) Recalled
Matthew Niven Bruce
1208
Navy, Chief Storekeeper
Fred Henry Bushing
1209
Navy, A.O. MM.
Earle William Clarke
1211
Navy, Yeoman, Third Class
Errol Harvey Cookson
1451
Navy, Chief Commissary Steward
Lemon Henry Cook
2539
Navy, 0. W. T.
James Henry Davis
1663
Chief Boatswain's Mate
Abe Dubin
1808
Army, Private ·
Carl James Farner
1807
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
Frank Edward Field
1212
Navy, Chief Radioman
Peter William Glaser
1303
Navy
John Grier Gruebale
1213
Navy, Pay Clerk
Romaine Hathaway
1214
Navy, Chief Pay Clerk
Charles Roy Hayes
658
Navy, Chief Erectrician's Mate
Hiram Young Huffman
1215
Navy, A. C. M. M.
Albert Julius Jensen
1901
Navy, Chief Radioman
1218
.Joseph Harold Kershaw
Army, Civil Eng. Corps
William E. Kier
1216
Army, Defense Construction
Edward Richard Kopp
1217
Navy, Storekeeper Second Class
E'rank H. Lash
1220
Navy, Captain Chaplain
John Harry La Tourette
1452
Navy, Boatswain
Eli Harold Levenson
1219
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
William Henry Looney
122l
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
William Roy Markle
1224
Marine Corps, Master T. Sergeant
Douglas Franklin Marshall
1223
Navy, Chief ·Commissary Steward
Emil Medin
2109
Army, Private
Lewis Robert Mensinger
2742
Navy. Chief Signalman
Harry Munns
1225
Navy, A. 0. C. M.
1222
Charles Thomas Myers
Navy, Chief Comm. Steward
Milton Offner
1302
Navy, Machinist's Mate 1st Class
John Alvin Phelps
1226
Army
Frederick Scott Ravin
1227
Navy, Torpedoman First Class

57

Victor Lee Redding
1662
Navy, Electrician's Mate 1st Class
Robert Joseph Ridings
1228
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Joe lvlartin Higgs
1229
Navy, Chief Fire Controlman
Victor Gustave Roden
1231
Navy, Aviation, Chief Mach. Mate
Drummond Burch Rogers
1230
Navy, Chief Machmist's Mate
William i:lamuel Sivel
1233
Navy, Chief Electrician's Mate
Harley Franklin Smart
1238
Navy, Ensign
Clifford E. Smelser
1253
Consolidate A. C. Corps
Robert Arthur Smith
1236
Marine Corps, Gunner
Herbert Spencer Sorkness
1234
Navy, Machinist's Mate 2nd Class
Edward L. Spelmeyer
1237
· Army, First· Lieutenant
1239
Rodney Browne Starr
Navy, Chief Torpedoman
Philip Emanuel Sundstrom
1232
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Orly Tagland
1240
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Clarence Frank Terry
1243
Army, First Lieutenant, Air Corps
Leota Tims
1241
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Lloyd Daniel Turner
1242
Army, First Lieutenant
2382
Ely Locks Whitehear
' Navy, Captain
Archie Ulmer Wilson
3435
Navy, Specialist First Class
1244
Dillon Foster Zimmerman
Navy, Commander
SCHOFIELD No. 443
Henry Peter Benz
Army, Master Sergeant
Irvin Bisnoff
Army, First Lieutenant
Arthur Joseph Cramer
Army, Master Sergeant
Junius Crawford
Army, Technical Sergeant
William R. DesMarias
Army, Master Sergeant
William Joseph Fayne
Army, Captain
Dale Frazier
Army, Staff Sergeant
Willie Felma Fulford
Army, Master . Sergeant
Leroy Gaddy
Army, First Sergeant
Paul Gevvasi
Army, Technical Sergeant
Ernest Bernard Gillman
Army, Master Sergeant

2993
3003
3001
2997
1889
3008
3015
3002
1891
2991
3007

58

GRAND J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Arthur Saudray Harrington
Army, Major
Paul henry .tlall
Army, j\lrnster Sergeant
Alvin i::Hyde Hayden
Army, First Lieutenant
Hilbert Oliver Hildeton
Army, Warrant Officer
Edwin .l''rancis Hohn
Army, Sergeant
David (Jarrett Jackson
Army, Major
Fred Klein
Army, Stall Sergeant
Arthur Henry Miller
Army, Captain
Nefus, Lee N·ewman
Army, First Sergeant
Glenn Bdward Picking
Army, Technical Sergeant
Hadley Quaintance
Army, Captain
June B. Reavis
Army, Master Sergeant
Leo Bernard Radby
Army, Major
Samuel McClure Smith
Army, First Lieutenant
Lawrence Robert St. John
Army; Captain
Charles Svensson
Army, Sergeant
Howard Golden Teter
Army, Technical Sergeant
Clay Thomas
Army, Technical Sergeant
Arthur Earnest Tooze
Army, First Lieutenant
Chauncey Wade
Army, Captain
Paul Revere Wade
Army, First Sergeant
Leonard Ned Wallach
Army, Captain
Charles Alfred Wolf
Army, W. 0. Bandleader
Louis Zuckerman
Army, Captain

1894
3006
3013
2992
2995
3014
1895
2996
3005
3'012
3017
3016
1893
1892
2994
1890
3010
1896
2998
3009
3011
2999
3000
3004

WILSHIRE No. 445
Leslie George Bryant
599
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
William Benjamin Cleves
3208
Army, Captain
Hollen Harrison Drake
2047
Army, Colonel
Frank Hen~y Finnen
2048
Army, First Lieutenant
Erwin Conger Jones
2388
Coast Guard, Lieutenal!t
Hans Karl Koebi.g
. 600
Navy Lieutenant ·Commander
John Chester Monning Jr.
602
Army, Captain

William Harry Onions
60ll
Navy
Clarence Cook Pierce
604
Army, First Lieutenant
Harry Eugene Roach
2902
Army, Major
'
Clark David Ryan
605
Navy, Physician
Harold Arnold Snell
2049
Army, First ·L ieutenant
Maurice Clinton Sparling
606
Navy, Lieutenant Commander

Ruddell J. Moore
Army, Corporal
Edwin Davis Robinson
Navy
Floyd Alexander Rutherford
Army, Major
Dudley Swiy Bwyn Samuels
Army, Private
Francis Clark S tewart
Navy
Willis Sherrard Wells
Army, Major

LA PUENTE No. 446
Curtis Yarnell Kimball
Army, Captain
James P. Richards
Army, Private
David Henry Sprong
Navy, Lieutenant S. G.

MONTEBELLO No. 451
Russell Mead Cast ell
204
CROCKER No. 454
Army Air Corps
.
Carl Harwood Crowder
207
F letcher Tarkington Cook
3137
Navy
Army, Priva t e
George Sinclair Dodge
. 1190
Edwin Earl Davies
1265
Navy, Chief Quartermaster Mate
Army, Sergeant
William George Feldmann
205
E lio Anthony Fontana
1266
Navy
Army, Privat e
Victor B. Fox
2354
Leon Herscowitz
1267
Army, Officers Training School
Navy, Apprent ice Seaman
Clarence Ward Froome
2317
Charles William Kimball
1268
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Alva Jackson Hast y
1188
~'loyd Clifton Lawrence Sr.
3575
Army, Private
Navy, Warrant Officer
Forrest Emmett Leffingwell
208
William Howard Lawrence
1269
Army, Captain
Navy, Ensign
·
Ephraim Merritt
2316
George Walter Hamilton
1270
Army, Private
N·a vy, Boatswain's Mate
Harold Lloyd Ostrom
2314
Edward ~'red Meinhar dt
2682
Army, Private
Army, Private
Wallace Edward Sharp
1189
William John Prowse
2681
Navy, . Chief Mach. Mate
Navy, Machinist Third Class ·
Trent Hewitt St eele
1187 · George Andrew Wieland
2683
Army, Private
Army, Private, Air Corps
Fred S. Thom
206
GOLDEN WEST No. 455
Army, Private
Frank Valentine Davis
2707
SAN PASQUAL No. 452
Navy, Commander ( DC)
Thorpe James DeLasaux
1714
George Lewis Rathcke
2705
Navy, Lieutenant S. C.
Navy, Radio Man Third Class
Harold Walter Herlihy
1974
Jack son Madison Rightmyer
2706
Army, Captain
Navy, Radio Man First Class
William Decker Holdredge
1943
P erry John Schott
2704
Army, First Lieutenant
A rmy, Private
Dewey Everett Inman
1603
William Edward Swan
2703
Navy, S. C. 2-C
Navy, Yeoman Third Class
Evans Lee Konold
2149
RAMONA No. 457
Army. Master Sergeant
Joseph DeWitt Sanderson Jr.
3207
Duane Cory Briggs
3347
Navy, Ensign
Navy
George Carmen Wheeler
1579
Philip Ayers Browing
2453
Navy, Chief Water tender
Army, Privat e
2454
J a mes 'Clark Campbell
BETHLEHEM N.o. 453
,Navy, Yeoman Second Class
Leslie Hammond B entson
23~ 5
J ames William Clow
3348
Navy, B. M. Second Class
Army, Private
Oliver Eugene Chambers
679
L eon . Furra
2455
Na'Vy, Lieutenant J . G.
.Army, Private First Class A. C.
Clifton Driscoll
676
Milton Samuel Kimball
2456
Army, Master Sergeant
Army, Major

1453
3244
3243

MOUNT DIABLO No. 448
Charles Ernest Lou cks·
448
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
PARK No. 449
Ellis Frank Aver
2093
Army, Private
John Wesley Brison
1628
Navy, Petty Officer
Donald Lee Burgess
1629
Army, Private
Joseph Edgar Desrosiers
1630
Navy, Ensign
Henry George Gerdes
1631
Army, Major, Air Corps
Walter Emil Hettman
1632
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Carter Miller Houston
1633
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
Baxter Charles Madden Jr.
1634
Army, Captain A. C.
William George Menary Jr.
1635
Navy, Seaman First Class
William Andrew Nelson
2667
Navy, Ensign
Robert Leroy Schary
1636
Army, Sergeant
William Spirz
2092
Army, Captain, Engineers
Arthur Harold Worden
1637
Army, Sergeant
VAN NUYS No. 450
Forrest N. Anderson
Army, Major
Arthur William Burns
Navy
Ernest Newby Clark
Army, Major
George Mart Henry
Army
George McClelland Keffer
Navy, Senior Lieutenant

800
2971
355
356
2974

2973

59

2970
357
2972
358
359

Frank White Edwards
304:d
Navy, Pharmacist 's Mate 2nd Class
Donald Pirie Geddes
677
Navy, Lieutenant S. G.
Edgar Newton Kierulff
678
Navy, Lieutenant S. G.
Guy Robert Shelton
674
Army, First Lieutenant
George Alexander deTimofeev 3507
Army, Privat e
675
Clarence Gold Wakeman
Navy, I,ieutenant S. G.
Edgar Snyder Winham
3256
Navy, Lieutenant

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

John Richard Trumbower
3349
Coast Guard
2452
Edwin Foster Virgin
Army, Private
HENRY S. ORME N o. 458
424
James Basil Adams Jr.
Army, C. C. M ., N. C. T. C.
Leon Ashjian
425
Army, Captain
Myron Walter Cochran
426
Navy, Storekeeper Third Class
Nobert Wesley DePew
1100
Army, Private, Air Corps
Harry Fisher
427
Army, Lieutenant
Edward Carl Griffin
1098
Army, Private
Wilfred Percy Goode
3340
Army, Private
Otto Bismark Kayser
428
Army, Captain
Harry Nervin Leyburn
2559
Army, Private
Edward Ernest Mathews
2031
Army, Air Corps
George Allen Newport
429
Navy, C. E . M.
Robert Grant Peel
430
Army, Corporal
George Adolf Roos
431
Navy
Allen Gustav Siegler
2560
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Lawrence Ellsworth Starr
1099
Navy, Yeoman Second Class
Wallace .Hauk Strock
432
'Army,
Kenneth Craney Wilson
2030
Army, , Private
John Clyde Zucco
433
Army, ·F.irst Lieutenant
RIVERBANK No. 459
Howard Glenn Kingston
Army, Captain
MOUNT OSO No. 460
Ralph Carlton Fitzsimmons
Army, .Private, Air Force
Lee Wilson Sloan
Army, Private
Stanley Walkerdine
Army, Private
ARGONAUT No. 461
Claude Anselmo Angonet
Navy, Commander
William Clare Blake
Navy, Ensign
Leon H enry Carny
Army, Captain
Darrel Ova Cook
Army, Master Sergeant

565

3553
2732
2983

193
196
210
189

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Leon Scott Cook
192
Army, Sergeant (Military Police)
Paul Lehm Dott
3482
Navy, Av. Mach. Mate, 3rd Class
Robert Charles Eisfeller
190
Army, Master Sergeant
Berthe! Henry Henning
188
Army, Major (Medical Corps)
John Clifford Miller
197
Navy, C. S. F. of A. D. B. No. 1
Charles Francis O'Malley
3481
Army, Ordnance Department
David Lawrence Parker
195
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Edward Charles Saunders
1059
Army, Lieutenant
John Little Slater Jr:
1504
Navy; Lieutenant
Engelbrekt Svedstrup
194
Navy; Lieutenant Commander
Arthur Ray Tucker .
191
Army, Staff Sergeant

Alton Eugene Clifford
Navy, Chief Ship Fitter
Harry Fenstermacher
Navy, C. C. M. (AA) V-6
Eldon Monroe Gaede
Army, Private
John Edward Hanson
Army, Private
Harold Faye Harris
Army, Private
William Wallace Hills, Jr.
Navy, Coxswain
George Lewis Johnson
Navy, C. E. M.
Roy Nilmeier
Navy, First Class Yeoman
Russell Clarence Petersen
Army, Private Eng.
Ernest Clinton Smallin
Army, Private
Walter Hormer Todd
Navy, Chief Metal Smith •

PAUL REVERE N o. 462
Raymond Carver Ball
1185
Navy, Chief Yeoman
Albert Gene Cohn
1180
Army, Captain, D. C.
John Judson Dean
1181
Army, Captain
Leon Herman French
1182
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
Lambrey Jerome Greem ore
1186
Army
William Hays Hammond
1178
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Milton Heilfron
1179
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Robert Hill
1360
Army, Major
Richard Johnstone
1183
Nav~, Lieutenant
Elmer Thomas Stone
1184
Navy, Chief Radio Operator
Kmuty Christen Stubo
1361
Navy, Lieutenant
John Robert Wagner
1177
Army, Major
Stanley Zimmerman
2450
Navy, Seaman

ROCKBRIDGE No. 468
Baptist Barthe
Navy, Captain
Bertram Linwood Bergese!1
Army, Cadet
Gordon Melvin Callison
Navy, Lieutenant
Eli Milan Chuckovich
Army, Corporal
Albert Burnett Dubbs
Army, Private
Roy W&lter French
Navy
E dwin Victor Jacobsen
Army, Lieutenant
Paul Jean Lippert
. Army, Private
Richard F. Lyman, Jr.
Army, Captain
Vernon Charles Mingham
Army, Master Sergeant
Walter Scott Smith
Navy, Chief Qua rtermaster

MORGAN HILL No. 463
Louis Elrod Cole
634
Army, Lieutenant
Welburn Edison Robertson
633
Navy, Yeoman, Third Class
Leon Richards Thomas
2842
Army, Private
CENTER No. 465
George Anderson
Army, Private
Chester William Burmood
Army, Private

209
3562

2642
2556
211
212
2594
2978
3370
2046
213
214
2643

2480
2474
2477
247il
2482
2481
2478
24b3

2473
2479
24ill

LINCOLN No. 470
Adolph E. Baer
1842
Army, Major
Paul A. Eissinger
351
• Navy. Lieutenant
David H. Caro
1843
Army. Corporal
LeRoy K. G ay
353
N·avy, Lieutenant Commander
Edward L . Muhn
1036
Army, First Lieutenant
Henry Silberman
352
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Clair V. Snell
350
Army, Lieutenant Colonel

DELTA N o. 471
Roland Eugene Doan
Army, Major
Roland Harper H ook
Army, Warran t Officer
Albert Kelien Lnck
Army, Private
Harry Daniel Richards
Army, Captain
George Lewis Russell, Jr.
Army, Private
Gerald Chrisman Smart
Navy

61
330
329

332
1380
1063
331

M AUI N.o. 472
Anderson Henry Mel vin
2181
Navy, Agt. Naval Intelligence
John Alfred Burden
2182
Army, Doctor
Thomas William Cowman
2183
Army, Doctor, Lieutenant
Emil Davis
2184
Army, Captain
Merrill Hamilton
2185
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Clyde Chapman Rogers
2186
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
2187
J a mes Leslie Watson
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Leslie Askew Weight
2188
Army, Lieutenant
V ICTORY No. 474
Earl Roland Eustace
3213
Army
Russell Arthur Hanlon
3211
Navy, Lieutenant
Edward Edson Plant
3216
Navy, W'a rrant Officer
DanieJ Henry Rhodes
3210
N avy, E. M. Second Class
William Sall
3501
Army, Private .
Wesley Dixon Smith
3209
N avy, Lieutenant S. G.
Robert DeWa~ Stone
3212
Army, Private
William Joseph T erry
3214
Army, Captain
Clyde LaVern Worden
3215
·Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
AMERI CA No. 475
Russell Garfield Armst r ong
A rmy, Private
Charles Leiboldt Brown
Army. Private
Ernest Edward Case
Army, Private
Philip Louis Cusani
Army, Private

2714
1397
1396
3413

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Robert Donald Dale
1400
Navy, Fireman F. C.
James Alfred Grady
3522
Navy, Coxswain
William Guidero
3521
Army, Private .
Ralph Hugo Palatto
3414
:Navy, Fireman, First Class
Edwin Ellsw-0rth Peabody
1398
,Navy, Lieutenant Commander
1402
George Charles Ralph
Navy, Medical Corps Nurse
Dr. Edward Peter Spana
1403
Pharm. Mate, Second Class
Edwin George Swafford
1401
Army, Captain
LaVerne Monteith Watson
1399
Navy, Lieutenant Commander ·
COACHELLA No. 476
William Blair Haines
.Army
William Frank Starr
Army, First Lieutenant
George W'illiam Thomason
Army
Harold Abraham Welfly
Army, First Lieutenant
TEMBLOR No. 477
Stanley Frank Shane
Army, First Lieutenant

2753
2754
2752
2755

2648

THOUSAND OAKS No. 478
Osc.a r Edward Carlson, Jr.
225
Navy, Civilian Employee
2035
Ervin Henry Clausen
Army, Major
2051
Harry Joseph Doyle
Army, Civilian Employee
221
Leonard Nichols Dunkel
Army, Lieutenant Colonel (Inf.)
2037
Robert Sterling Evans
Navy, Sailor
Fred Louis Finley
2032
Coast Guard, Chief Quartermaster
Abner Waldo Lee
2033
c 'o ast Guard, Chief Mach. Mate
Robert Louis Mainzer
2036
Army, Q. M. Corps
222
Robert Gordon Slick
Army, Lieutenant
224
Hebard Payson Smith
Army, Lieutenant
223
.George Coil Whitley
Navy, Ensign
2034
Stap.ley R. Williamson ·
Navy, Ensign
GOLDEN RULE No. 479
Lewis Ca~s A shcraft .
Army
·
Gatin Leonard Curia
Army, First Lieutenant

620
624

Bruce Pardee Griswold
619
Navy
John W'illiam Jacka
1245
Army
Paul Robert Kimball
2774
Army, Corporal
626
Milo Kiperash
Army, Lieutenant
Charles Harlod Kruse
625
Army, Major, Air Corps
Samuel Willard Francis LeCroy 617
Na.vy
William Laytin Pierce
623
Army
Eugene Riese
622
Army, Air Corps
Harold Yager Thompson
618
Navy
Kenneth Cornelius Wiersema
621
Army, Captain
FELLOWSHIP No. 480
Richard Thompson Burgess
579
Navy, Fireman
William Eugene Daily
2575
Army, Corporal
Denver Thomas Dale, Jr.
672
Army, Private·
Charles Abraham Davidian
1163
Army, Private
Axel Wm. Prestegaard Jen.sen 2531
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Richard Charles Parker
1847
Army, First Lieutenant, A. C.
MT. DAVIDSON No. 481

Laurence Dominic Benamati
2340
Army, First Lieutenant
Ralph Harrison Campbell
2341
Navy, Yeoman First Class
Mark Dolan
2342
Navy, Av. Machinist's Mate, F. C.
Albert Theodore Eicher
2343
Navy
Aristide James Pappas
2910
Navy, Fie.
Elwood Francis Pierce
2345
Army, Corporal
Bert Wellington Seil
2344
Navy, Boatswain's Mate
C. F. SMITH No. 482
Robert Alexander Anderson
15~0
Navy, Boson Mat.e, First Class
1561
Ca,rol Victor Cadwell
Army, Major
Bm:on Rodgers Fitts
1701
Army; Major
Willard Rohrer Follmer
1562
Arm7, First Lieutenant
Rl!ssell Uhl Ingram
1563
Army,.Captain, Air Gorps
Lynn Hunter Jenkins
1564
Navy, Chief Carpenter's Mate

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Milton James Priger
1565
Army, First Lieutenant
Robert William Ramsay
1566
Navy, l!~irst Class Torpedo Man
Vivian Norman Scott
1567
Army, Major
Spencer L. Stevens
2624
Navy, Painter First Class
BELL No. 483
Stanley Asp·
2359
Army, Captain
Charles Summer Brown
2360
Navy
George Thomas Goodrich
3045
Marine Corps, Private
Mark Hanna Johnson
2361
Army, Lieutenant, Air Corps
Lawrence Emil Lange
2362
Navy, Chief Radioman
John Glynn Llewellyn
2363
Army, Major
Oliver Merritt Moore
2364
Army, Captain
Thomas Olley
2365
Army, Private
Marion Ross Redman
2366
Navy, Chief Electrician's Mate
Willard Albert Stine
2367
Navy, C. M. Third Class
Jonathan Frank Wilson
2368
Army, :i'rivate First Class
ALBERT PIKE No. 484
Roy Ford Askew
Navy
Elton Ellsworth Hankins, Jr.
Army, Major, Dental Corps
Donald Fran·k Simmons
Navy
CHOWCfilLLA No. 485
Ellis George Linn
Private First Class

671
484
673

19

CALEDONIA No. 486
Lee Jacob Crain
3515
Marine Corps
Howard Arthur Duck
131
Army, First Lieutenant
Jack Donald Glasscock
132
Marine Corps, Private
Harry Voris Gordon
3516
Coast Guard
Barney Harris Gray
3517
Army, Engineer Corps
William Harvey Holman
133
Army, Private ;ii'irst Class
Walter William Kessler
3518
Marine Corps, First Lieutenant
Samuel Marvin Mongold
134
Army, Corporal
Jasper Newton Munden, Jr.
3519
Army

63

Homer Zimmerman Myers
135
Navy, Radioman Second Class
Clinton Deal Peterson
1454
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
Clarence Edward Reynolds .
2914
Army
'
Franklin Kenneth Rhodes
136
Army, Sergeant, Air Corps
Anysl Neil Ross
137
Army, Sergeant
Ray Alfred Vercommen
3513
Army
Ralph Ellis Williams
3514
Navy

v ALLEJ'o No. 487
Samuel True Clayton
1823
Navy, Gunner's Mate
John William Dew
789
Navy, Chief Quartermaster
Clarence Farmer George, Jr.
2379
Army, Lieutenant
Ray Francis Hawkins
791
Navy, Chief Quartermaster
Jesse Samuel Ho-0per
792
Navy, Lieutenant
Howard Kinney
2787
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Gilbert John Mahaney
2609
Navy, Chief Yeciman
Cuthbert Menge
2154
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Matthew Joseph Millard
790
Navy, Warrant Officer
Frederick Theodore Pitket
1338
Navy, Chief Electrician's Mate
Alfred Rodger Porter1iel'1
2728
Navy, Shipfitter First Class
2113
George Edgar Swartz
Navy, Lieutenant, J. G.
1898
R-awlings Willey
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Jt'ranciR Ryan Wolff
1264
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
EAST BAY No. 489
Thomas Amess
549
Army, Private
Henry August Berndt
2458
Navy, Seaman First Class
Ernest Leroy Blackburn
287
M:nine Corps, Sergeant
Robert Courtland Muse
288
Army, State Guard
Britton White Sickler
289
Coast Guard, Chief Gunner
Steven Henry Welch
2545
Navy, Master Mach. First Class
WOODSTOCK No. 491
John Harmon Alford
1093
·Army, Private
Ewing Palestine Clark
1092
Navy, Electrician First Class

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mich ael Howard Hassan
3034
Navy, Sailor
William Julius Justin, Jr.
1094
Navy
'
1090
Gordon Alexandel' Kremer
• Army, Sergeant
Jack Covell Richardson
2540
Navy, Radio Communications
William Humpert Shervey
2652
Army, Private
Albert Henry Weyand
1089
Army
GARVANZA No. 492
Van Wagner Bishop
2553
Army, Captain, Q. M. Corps
William Everett Clement
3427
Army, Private
Daniel R-0ss Farnham
2554
Navy, Lieutenant, J. G.
Russell Elmer Johnson
2903
Army, Private
Frank Jacob Shuford
2551
Navy Elect. Mate First Class
Henry Sears Thomson
2552
Army, Captain-Chaplain
Edward Otto Zacher Tolley
2904
Army, Signal Corps
ACORN No. 494
Francis Willard Larson
Navy, Lieutenant, J. G.

739

LEBANON No. 495
Abraham Bernstein
2597
Army, Major, Medical Corps
Edward John Elbury
2599
Army, Major
Eugene Jennings Geiger
2601
Army, Private
Jack Krueger Harris
2602
Army, Private
Wilfred Munter
2595
Navy Lieutenant Commander
Sidney Nathaniel Tucker
2598
Army, Major
Jack Urban
2600
Sidney Z-0bel
2596
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
RIVERDALE No. 496
Clifford Henry Almy, Jr.
Navy, Yeoman Third Class
John Carson Hannah
Navy, Chief Petty Officer

1161
165

FREMONT No. 497
Robert Lloyd Almy
769
Navy Second Class Petty Officer
Vernon 'Elvin Bowers'
627
Army. Staff Sergeant
Robert Walter Feland
1455
Navy, Chief Petty O~ficer

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Julius Leopold Gruenebaum
1300
Army, Sergeant
Charles Edward Hall
3149
Army, Captain ·
Raymond Jensen Hill
770
Navy, First Class Seaman
Wallace Henry Lane
2349
Army, Captain
Stanley Lloyd Learn.er
1162
Army, Private
Lawrence Ernest MacWhinney
771
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
William Robert McKane
768
Navy, First Class Seaman
Alfred Clare Meadows
774
Navy, Lieutenant
Dale Ellsworth Patterson
773
Navy, Third Class Petty Officer
Stanley Rolland Place
772
Army, Captain
Sam Schwartz
1160
Army, Private
Ernest Henry Stange
649
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
STOCKTON No. 498
Russell Grant Crowe
Army, Air Corps, Private
John Henry Ott
Army, Private
CAPITAL CITY No. 499
Wilson James Davies
Army, Private
James Shepard Hughes
Army, Major
Carl Herbert Modell
Army, Sergeant
Edmond Bostick Morgan
Army, Captain
Everett Clarence Plummer
Army, Private
Robert Roy Rein
Army, Private
Leslie Delbridge Richards
Army, Private First Class
Vernon Merlin Remfry
Army. Private
Lester Norman Wells
Army, Private
WESTWOOD No. 501
Richard Alfred Brown
Army, Corporal
Ned N. Matarazzi
Army
Fredrick Robt. McKeown
Army, Private
August Utz
Army, Private First Class
POINT No. 503
John Gilbert Coward
Army, Private

162
163

3422
3423
1556
1458
1456
1457
1557

SEASIDE No. 504
Vernon Kenton Collins
517
Navy
Cecil Floyd Davenport
3260
Army, Searchlight Batt.
John Russell .Elwell
516
Navy
James Barnes Gibson
499
Navy
Lewis George Grote
500
Navy
Cecil Ellsworth Halstead
501
Army
Willard Candler Hartlliy
3259
Navy, q, B. M.
Hume Ernest Holcomb
502
Navv
Rupert James Keller, Jr.
504
Navy
·
John William Kirkpatrick, Jr.
505
Navy
Esty Decatur Mitchell
503 .
Bruce 'l'homas Nelson
515
Warren W. ·Rosier
506
Navy
Philip Earl Sanders
507
Navy
Charles Stanley Seidle
514
Navy
William Arthur Shonts
511
Army
Harry Wallace Stephens
513
Navy
Harold Hagen Stuart
512
Navy
Raymond Bean Townsend
1337
Army, Second L ieutenant Colonel
Theodore John Wildman
508
Navy
Joseph Milton Wilson
510
Navy
Lloyd Garrison Wilson
509

2150

SILVER CORD No. 505
Rosswell Isreal Berkheimer
2370
Army, Lieutenant
Rudolph C. Dumont
2371
Navy
Richard Kenn eth Hardy
2377
Francis B. Hill
2369
Army
Harry P. Jackson
.2376
Harvey Cecil Maxwell, M. D. 2372
Fred Wilburn May
2373
Frank Noble Sellars
2374
2378
T. Paul Sheffield
George McClelland Stewart
2375
Navy

1840

MT. OLIVE N o. 506
Harold Ed Aaron
Army, Private

2011
1558

2152
2153
2151

1933

65

Robert Allen Behrendt
825
Navy
George Arthur Chant
827
Army
Edwin Paul Chambers
826
Army, Lieutenant
Albert Howard Frederickson
828
N·a vy, Training
Saul Michael Gorss
3337
Army, Private
Sol Halprin
829
Navy
Russell 0. Hans on
830
Navy
Paul Richard Harmer
2746
· Navy, Lieutenant
Thomas George Hazenb ush
833
Army, Major
Ralph Edgar . Heckler
831
Army, Lieutenant
Thomas Hood
832
Navy
Joseph A. Huber
1540
Army, Private
Herbert Stroud Johnson
834
Navy, Q. M. Dept. .,
Ralph Sandlin Jones
835
Navy
Edwin Malcolm Kirton
2745
Army, Lieutenant
William Lester Kuehl
1139
Lieutenant
George Warren Larson
1138
Army, Privtite
Robert Lord
" 1541
Army, Major
Arnold Louis L osey
3339
Navy
Charles Norman MacLeod
836
Navy, 3d Class Pet ty Officer
Ralph Waldo Nelson
3335
Army, Captain
B ill Thomas Perkis
837
Army, Private
Kenneth Scouten
1539
Army, Private
Lawrence Stromberg
838
Navy, Ensign
Blaine Gifford Walk er
839
Army, First Lieutenant
Jack Lewis Warner
841
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Jack Milton Warner
840
Army
Frederick Ernest W est
3338
Army,
Pere Harry W!'lstmor~
3336
N avy
Darryl F. Zanuck
. ,1542
Army, Colonel

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1750
Roy Fox
Army, Sergeant
1657
Wade Jackson Hampton
Marine Corps, Private
3183
Chas. Emmett Hoage
Army
1655 .
Edwin Harold Holton
JOPPA No. 508
Carpenter's Mat~ First Class
Modest Clarin Franchint
3226
Edward William Little
1654
Navy, Storekeeper Third Class
Army, Private
.
202
Russel Bradford Hathaway
Edward Armond Roach
1652
Army, Officer's Training School
Navy, Yeoman Third Class
Melvin Davis Hughes
201
Sidney D. Witherow
1656
Navy, Lieutenant
Army, Private
.
203
Robert William Mamlan~
ARGONNE No. 514
69
. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN No. 509
Aifred T. Anderson
Navy Chief Engineer's Mate.
James Archa Bradley
3224
William' James Ashley ···
1~55
Army, Sergeant
Navy, Command., 8th Naval Dist.
William Armour Cunningham 1484
51
Charles A. Baker
Navy, F. C. Petty Officer
Army, Captain
Frank John . Frankford
3223
52
Eugene D. Bennett
Army, Special Flight .14 ,
2800
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Carl Randolph Haun ,
3444
Charles Earl Bradshaw
Army, T. Serge11-nt
3189
First Lieutenant, Army
Donald McKee Keith
53
Beverly G. Brown
Army, Major
1370
Army,
Captain
Joseph Kramer Lee
James Freyman Coleman .
1154
Army, Medical Tra_in . . Batt.
Army, Major, Army Fman.ce
Kay William Roland
3225
William J. Cook
' 54
Army, Corporal . .'
2276
Army, Captain
William Walter Ronclt " .
55
Horace G. Cotton
Army, Private
Army, Major
. ' 56
CUPERTINO No. 510
David K. Donelson
Frederick Tantay Durkee
' 1916
Army, Captain
67
Bernard C. Elders
Army, Private
·.
Navy, Chief Warrant. Officer
SUNNYVALE No.' 511
Harry Richard Eulenstem
3447
551
Anny, Private
Peter Almos
57
Dix C. Garland
.Navy, Boatswain .
1,213
Army, First Lieutenant
Russell Samuel Minaker
1156
Navy, 2d Class Petty Offi~er ·
Carl Lewis Haas
550
Navy,'
Lieutenant
Anton John Schmi.tz
68
Dr. Warren D. Horner
Army, Private
Navy, Commander
1157
PALMS No: 612
Ralph Frederick Kramer
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Wilbert Nelson Bailey
482
.3443
Constant LaForcade
Navy
. 70
Navy Chief Petty Officer
James Trevor Goodroan
Navy Machinist's' Mate 2d Class
Milford' McQuilkin
1158
Charles'Leland Knowlton
1159
Navy, Lieutenant
·
58
Navy Baker Third Class
Paul D. Michelson, Jr.
483
Army, Major, Medical Corps ·
Ben La~ont McMillan
Ernest B. Parks
59
Navy
2102
Army, First Sergeant
Harry Barton Young
60
Army, Signal Corps
C. Harris Potts
Army
Lieutenant
Colonel
c.AHUENGA No. 613
3446
·Herbert' .G eorge Rollins
Gerard Watson Buchard
1653
Army, Second Lieutenant
61
Navy, C. Sp.
.
Charles A,. Ross
Francis John Burgess
174 9
Army, Warrant Officer
Army

EL SEGUNDO No. 507
1221
Maney Albert Logan
Navy
79.4
Dexter Cogal Williams
Army, Second Li.e utenant

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

John A. Schearer
Army, Captain
Henry Norris Sch~ndler
Anny, Captain
Russell B. Tripp
Army, Captain
Thad H .. Tucker
Army
Kenneth Archibald Wilson
Arniy, First Lieutenant
Arthur Mackey
Navy

62
63
65
66
3441
3442

MT. VERNON No. 517
James Caliguiri
2898
Nav,r, Aircraft Mach. M. 3d blass
2488
Edward Charles McDonald
Navy, Seaman
2897
William Owen Pelkey
Army, Major
Harold Carl Phister
588
Navy, S!laman Second Class
Harold Benjamin Rohrback
2489
Army, First LieutenaiJ,t
Alexander Beavis Taylor
589
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
Henry Christian Vandahl
2490
Army, Major
George Frederick White
2491
Army, Private
Chester Washington Young
590
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
LA JOLLA No. 518
Will Lee Boyer
2434
Navy
Ulrich Joseph Braun
2433
Navy
Isaac Franklin Brown
2432
Navy, C. P. 0 .
Irving Henry Burk
2431
Navy
Barclay Ferguson Calhoun
2430
Navy
Edward Dessau Clarkson
24~9
Army
Kennet h Lee Curtis
2428
Navy
Francis Thomas DeMont
2426
Navy ·
·
2427
J . W . Dillon
. Navy
...
Charles Meriwether Gilmer Jr. 2425
Navy
Geor.g e Walter Glass
2424
Navy
Herman Franklin Raddle
2423
Navy, A. C. 0, M.
Frederick Monroe Hart
2422
Navy, Chief Pharm. Mate 1st Cl.
George March Heeren
2421
Navy, Missing in action"'

67

2420
Jack Jessie Jones
Navy, Water Tender 1st Class
Gardner 0. E. Kirk, Sr.
2418
Navy, Baker First Class
Roy Clayborne King
2419
Navy
William Erwin Knight
2417
Navy
Chester Ernest Lee
2416
Navy, Pharm. Mate First Class
Joseph Eugene Maxwell
2415
Navy
William Edward Patrick
685
Army, Chaplain
Willard Wright Penry
2414
Army, First Lieutenant
Ernest Schefer
2413
Navy
Sterling Monroe Scheller
2412
Navy
Harry Russell Schuppner
2411
Army, Colonel
Irvin Duley Story
2410
Navy
Jesse Edgar Walden
2409
Navy
John Frederick Williams
2408
Navy, S. K. L. C.
Luther Franklin Williams
2407
Navy, Chief Radioman
John Stanley Wolfe
2406
Navy, C. B. M.
EUCLID No. 519
Elmer ,Russell Arbogast
2614
Navy
·
Richard Vance Barksdale
2613
Navy, C. M. Q.
Eugene Brewer Connell
2612
Navy, Lieutenant
Hugh Faith Evans
2615
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Chester Ozmund Horton
2840
Army, Privat e
Paul Elmer Johnson
3433
Coast Guard
William Clarence Miles
2611
Army, Corporal
Paul Chritten Queen
2616
Army, Second Lieutenant
Edward Charles Sears
2777
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
William Eugene Smith
3432
Navy
William Richard Smith
2778
Army, Corporal
John L. Wagoner
2779
Army, Privat e
IONIC No. 520
P aul Christian Byrne
Army, Major

2606

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3351
Thomas Jenkins
Private, Army
3154
Simon Isadore Kronick
Army, Private
3153
Elmer York Kroweeh
Army, Private
2650
Dewey Kuykendall
Navy, Elect. Mate Second Class
2833
Eli. Hillson Leslie
Army, First Lieutenant A. C.
2790
Morris Linn
Army, Corporal, A. C.
2835
Peter Theodore Rice
Army, Private
2834
George Wilkins
Army, Private
PIEDMONT No. 521
Bedford Walker Boyes
1676
A.r my, Maj_or
1675
George Walter Ellis, Jr.
Marine Corps, Lieutenant
William Macdonald Hart
1674
Army, Air Corps
William Henry Mohr
1673
Army, Major Eng. Div.
James Hamilton Todd
1672
Navy, Lieutenant Commander

CATALINA ISLAND No. 524
Bruner Moore Burchfiel
1728
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
William Henry Drescher
2907
Army, Private
Paul S. Gilbert
925
Army, Private
Vietor Collett Lytle
2389
C. G., Chief Warr. Off. Mach.
Clint Eller McMillan
304
Navy
Malcolm Joseph Renton
167
Army, Private
Claude Walton
2395
Navy, Warrant Officer
John Casper Wegmann
2908
Navy, Chief Warrant Officer
GEORGE WASHINGTON No. 525
Lou Blakesley
1407
Navy, Yeoman
1408
Earl Chesterfield Em·erson
Navy, Boatswain's Mate 2d Cl.
1409
Albin Erving Jones
Army, Private
1410
Thomas Arthur Nolli
Army, Private
1411
Herbert Anderson Okell
· Army, Sergeant

SUNRISE No. 522
Maurie.e Emery Clark
3496
Marine Corps, Private
Clyde James Lanehart
3495
Army, Private
Billie J. MeClane
3497
Army, Private; Air Corps
Captain Brunson MeClane
3498
Coast Guard, Seaman Second Class
Leon Milton Tatilian
3499
Army, Private
Harold James Tilton
823
Army, Second Lieutenant

BA,Y CITY No. 526
338
Frederick M: Casper
Navy, . Pharm. Mate First Class
336
Charles Terenzio Garelli
Army, Private
2358
Arthur Goldstein
Navy, Surgical Technician
339
Charles Herold Israel
Army, Private First Class.
337
Abraham Blackburn Sirbu
Army, Major
2357
Jerome Van Den Bergh
Army, Private

BELLFLOWER No. 523
Cyril Henry Barber
2465
Army, Cadet, Air Foree
Francis Hart Burge
1282
Marine Corps, Corporal
Wilhelm B. N. Carlson
2275
Navy, Chief
Robert John Grentner
2169
Navy, Seaman Second Clas.a
Clarence Campbell
2466
Army, Cadet, Air Corps
William Burdette Myers
2781
Army, Private
Roy Logan Stover, Jr.
860
Army, Private
Camden Owens Wilmoth
859
Army, Corporal

COVENANT No. 5~
William Calvin Addis
2066
Marine Corps, 1st Sergeant
Shannon Burke
2067
Marine Corjis, First Sergeant
Myron Roy Hubbell
660
Army, Second Lieutenant
Howard Frederick Kranz .
1616
Navy, Photographer Third Clas·s
Donald Plympton Mayhew
2956
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Paul William Preston
2957
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Roy Gordon Sale
1293
Navy, Fireman First Class
Leo Joseph Wilson
2068
Marine Corps, Sergeant Major

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOYALTY No. 529
Jult>s Berman
Navy
George Ward Janu~
Army, Sergeant
Louis Lubert
Army, Second Lieutenant
William Wyler
Army, Major

3240
5
6
1624

ALEXANDRIA No. 531
Alfred Henry Aston
3382
Army, Private
Paul Elwood Barlow
:324
Navy, Metal Smith Second Class'
Henry Eugene Carey
325
Navy, StorekeepAr Third Class
Thomas Byron Jordan
· 531
Navy, Pharm. Mate Th ird Class
Edward O'Camp
3381
Navy
·
Frederick P. J. Schmidt
2858
Army, Second Lieutenant
SMYRNA No. 532
Leonard E. Anderson
Army, Engr. Bat. 4, ·co. C
Ben Ernest Cuddy
Army, First ;Lieutenant
Frank LaRoAa
Army, Private
Merrill Russell
Army, Private
AZURE NO. 533
Nflwell Ray Carothers
Army, Private ~'irst C1labs
Tidwell C. Homer
Army, Private First Class
Ritchie D. Strickland
Army, Private First Class

753
7!H
752
754

3559
2821
3558

FOREST ffiLL No. 534
Claude Gobert Humphrey
2747
Navy, Pharm. Mate Se<iond Class
James Roland Pace
652
Navy, Lieutenant
ALEXANDER HAMILTON No. 535
Lyman Fanford Hardy
1130
Navy, Storekeeper Third Class
Harcourt H ervey
1131
Army, Brigadier General
Solette Edgar Minikes
1132
Army, Major, Infantry
UTOPIA No. 537 :r
Max Milton Archer
!:!071
Army, Captain
William Louis Comyns, Jr.
1605
Army, Captain (Radio Div.) ,

69.

Kenneth Klo ck Cottom
175
Army, Captain
Oliver Cha.rles Dwyer
744
Army, Lieutenant
Sterling Leonard Falk
176
Army, Acting Sergeant
Hontus Burt Jones
745
Navy, Photo. Dept.
Melvin Salem Kennedy
. 2072
Army, Sr. Cartographic Eng.
Oscar Seymour Larabee
177
Army, Major
Albert Jensen Lund
178
N a vy, Inst ructor
Earl David Meldrim
179
Army, Private
William Hammond Shoup·
180
Army, Second Lieutenant
Everett Lee Stringer
:. 181
C. G., Boatswain's Mat e
Charles Earl Wheeler
1604
Navy, l iieuteuant.
George Rushton Woods
182
·Na;vy, Torpedo ·Boat Comm.
Dyron Earl Wyman
1606
Army. Captain
ASCOT No. 538

Emm~tt Earnest Jones

1461
Army, Captain
Robert John Keddie
1460
Navy, Quartermaster 3d ~lass
John Paul Mike
1459
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Chest1>r W allaee Murphy
2578
Nav;v, S. C. Third Class
BELVEDERE No. 539
Warren Matson Easton
2(\63
Army, Privatt'
Joseph Hoy Harper
548
Ariny, Private
.
William Seright .Tohnaton
1358
Navy, Ship's Cook Second Class
Kenneth Alfred Warren
2562
Marine Corps, Private
QUEEN BEACH No. 540
Harold Wind8or Bennett
1462
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Ven Ot is Fahrney
1465
Navy, Yeoman Second Class
John Frederic Ferguson
1466
Navy, Boatswain's Mate First Cl.
Charles Elmer List
3052
Coast Guard, Warrant Officer
Gilbert William Meisehke
1463
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Faraon Jay Moss'
3053
· ArD1y, Pirst Lieutenant
William Jackson Sibley
1467
Army, Second Lieutenant

70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Howard Henry Sweet
1464
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
HENRY MORSE STEPHENS
No. 541
2935
Courtney Gee Clegg
·
Navy, Com. Med. Corps
2937
Charles Randolph Currier
Army, Major
2938
Reginald Jessee Dowling
Army, Major
2936
Charles 0. Garrels
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Roberto Francisco Escamilla
1050
Army, Major, Medical Corps
Herbert Bismark Foster, Jr.
2933
Army, First Lieutenant
1055
Frederick R. Gray
Army, Major, Dental Corps
Clarence Leo Hamberlin
2934
Army, Second Lieutenant
1049
Stanley Samuel Hawley
Army, First Lieutenant
2939
Robert Elliot McCarthy
Navy, Ensign
1048
J. Thornton
Army, Captain
1053
Hiram Archie McPherson
Army, First Lieutenant, M. C.
1052
Kenneth Messinger
Navy, Lieutenant
1047
Shaver Q. L. Robinson
Army, Major
Ernest Henry Sagehorn '
1054
Navy, Lieutenant (Civil Eng.)
Alvin Madison Speegle
2940
Army, Private
1051
Byron Julian Wilson
Army, Private
LANKERSHIM; No. 542
Charles Ralph Edison
2462
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Charles Kimball Niblack
2463
Army, Major, Eng. Corps
Alfred Lee Walker
2461
Navy, Staff Sergeant
SIGNAL No. 543
Thomas Howard Anderson
286
Canadian Army, Sta:ff Sergeant
Richard John Arthur ·
1468
Navy, Gunners' Mate First Class
J. Roland Ballew
. 1902
Army, Private
Einar Norman Eriksen
1809
Navy, Lieutenant
Henry Harold Hare
172
A'rmy, Lieutenant
Dudley Henry Harkleroad
636
Navy, Lieutenant
Earl Russell Hoffman
731
Navy, Chief Radioman

Joseph Huge~shoff
1486
Navy, Pharm. Mate First Class
Larry Rowan J ohnston
995
Navy, Av. Metalsmith First Class
Tommie Uecil McFarland
1903
Navy, Chief Shipfitter
Warren Francios Postelle
285
Navy, Pharm.
Kenneth Lyle Price
74-6
Navy, Pharm.
Harry Louis Rapp
1066
Navy, Pay Clerk
Leroy Clifton Richey
1340
Navy, Patternmaker First Class
Edgar Allyn Russell
3511
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
John Edward Ryan
747
" Navy, Machinist Mate 1st Class
Cecil Thurman Shock
795
Navy, Machinist's Mate 2d Class
William Bedford Shotwell
73
Army, Lieutenant
·
Richard Clifford Tilt
1887
Navy, Lieut. J. G.
William Foriest Wilson
748
Navy, Patternmaker First Class

John Pryce Williams
886
Navy, Lieutenant Secret Ser vice
SAN GABRIEL No. 546
William Earle Goodere
1143
Army, Captain, Air Corps
Walter 0. Lathrop
3392
Navy, Machinist Mat e First Class
Joe F. Willis
3391
Army, Private

GLENDALE No. 544

ARCADIA N o. 547
James Macy Dutton
3398
Navy, Midshipman
J Ohn' Charles Gaffney
3399
Army, Corporal
Otto Theodore Gilbank
3396
Army, First Lieutenant
Stanley Earl Hedge ·
3434
Army, Private
George Augustus Segal
3415
Navy,_ Seaman Second Class
Cyril W. Shier
340
Army, Major
Kenneth S. Stutzman
3397
Army, Chief Specialist
Charles Alfred Wilson
3400
Navy, Seaman ·F irst Class

1469
Albert Gordon Bower
Navy, Lieut. Commander (Med.)
1573
Robert John Boyd
Navy, Yeoman
1487
Richard Frederick Dewey
Navy, Elec. Third Class
1569
Russell Eugene Hobbs
Army, Private
1568
James Herbert ;Miles
Army, First Sergeant
1978
D' Alton Br.i stol Myers
Army, Private
1470
Odie Limuel Sparks
Army, Private
Arthur Keith Wickham
1488
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate

TRIANGLE No. 548
Nolan Judd Barnett
1485
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Herbert Wilson Dawson
2311
Army, Major, C. A. C.
2841
David Menahem Griver
Navy, Yeoman
Hilton Hubble Harris
2312
Army, Captain of Eng.
Ove Hoyer
2310
Navy
Earl Edward Karner
2309
Army, Captain, Dental Corps
Robert Vincent Wallis
2313
Army, 1'.rivate

JONAT HAN No. 545
Frederic Ludwig Firebaugh
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Richard Eugene Hannah
. Army, Private Firs·t Class
Angus Sandy MacLaeon
Army, Sergeant
Jesse Floyd Milford
Army, First Lieutenant
Stephen Podesta
Army, Corporal
Jacob Remsing
Army, Sergeant
Robert Verner Stone
Navy, Machinist's Mate
Francis Clinton West
Army, Sergeant

884
885
887
882
890
888
889
883

JUSTICE No. 549
Lamonie Orthell Baxter
2649
Navy, Lieutenant, J. G.
Ralph Oscar Biedenbach
4
Army, First Lieutenant ' .
1 ·
Emil Eugene Erickson
Army, Private
Leland Peoples
3
Army, Second Lieutenant
Harold Eugene Russell
2
Navy
Charles Lester Terry 1
1489
Navy, Chief Carpenter's Mate
Philip Raymond Trombly
568
Navy

71

SEAPORT No. 550
Rolan d John Anderson
2457
Army, E. M. 2 c (Platoon Co. 3)
Chester Henry Knowles
107
Marine Corps, Captain
Edward Vincent Lemos
2960
Army, Air Corps
Milt on George Perry
1278
Army, Private
Clarence A. ~orter
108 .
Navy, Radio Operator
William John Wegner
106
Army
LAKESHORE No.'· 551
Charles Cecil Buckley
591
Army, Captain
Albert Byron Camp
592
Army, Major ·
1910
Herbert Stanley Jacobs
Army, Captain
1909
Atherton Allen Newland
Navy, Chief Av. Mach. Mate
Jack Norton Solomon
1911
Army, Lieutenant
1908
Alfred Alexander ·Strain
Coast Guard, Paymaster
WHITE PINE No. 555
520
William Schomann Fine
Navy, Pharmacist's Mate 2d Cl.
1141
William Linwood Merrion
Army, Private
519
Dragutin Dushan Todorovic
Army, Major
FAIRFAX No. 556
George Sylvester Girolo
·Army, Sergeant
Floyd Clark ·Longley
Army, Officer 9andidate
Roy Allrert Nisja
' Navy, Lieutenant
Carl Bradfield .Reineger
Army, First Lieutenant
George Reginald Sunter .
Navy, Seaman First Class

1374
3253
1375
1372
1373

HERMOSA No. 557
Benjamin 'Franklin Allen
1251
Navy, Hospital Apprentice
1249
Thomas Henry Drew
Army, Private
1248
J. LeRoy Johnson
Navy
1250
Lawrence Albert Scott
Army, Second Liuetenant
Frank Lloyd Smith
1730
Navy, Motor Mach. Mate 3rd Cl.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PT. FIRMIN No. 558
Felix William Adamski
1386
Navy, Chief Boatswafo Mate
Nicholas William Anton
2105
Navy, Chief Comqisy. Steward
Frank Leslie Banta
1394
Army, Warrant Officer
1522 '
Ernest Beckham
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
1392
Leon Joseph Boudreaux
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
2104
Louis Joseph Brady
Navy, Ship Fitter
2764
William Earl Bruner
Navy, Chief Electrician's Mate
1388
Murray M. Cooper
Army, First Sergeant
Calvin Porter Dernbergei:
2547
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
James Economides
· 13037
Navy, Coxswain
•
James Edward Wier Fogwell
2280
Navy, Carpenter's Mate '1st_ Cl.
Karl August Gollatz
1511
Navy, Electrician's Mate 1st Cl.
Edward B. Gray .
3038
Navy, Yeoman First Class
Glenn Morelle Green
2231
Army, Major
3311
Clinton DeWitt High .
Navy, Chief Quart~r·master
David Robert Johnson
2546
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Earl Hulett Lamb
139'.
Navy, Yeoman Second Class
139;!
Wendelin Roy Malsam
Army, Second Lieutenant
Leo George Dwyer McDermott 138~•
Navy, Boatswain
Kelse Meade
Navy, A. M. Second Class
139(•
Kenneth Albert Mundy
Navy, Warrant Officer
Arthur Henry Norris
1920
Navy, Chief Yeoman (P. A.)
Jacob Olsen
15Zl
Navy, Chief Boatswain Mate
Sidney Merrill
1387
Navy, Chief Storekeeper
CRAFTSMEN No. 559

William Trelease Deckeraw
1767
Army, Second Lieutenant
Charles Howard Fraser
3474
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Edward Robert Greene
3476
N-a vy
Herman Gruenberg
3472
Navy, Ship's Cook, Third Class
William Edward Hart
1764
Navy, Pharmacist's Mate 3d Cl.

Sam J. Hoenig
3477
Navy
Allison Norman Horton
1763
Army, Second L ieutenant
Claude Woodrow Looper
1769
Army, Private
Albert Tansley Luck
1762
Army, Sergeant Major
Rodney :Verle Olson
3473
Navy
Albert John Sutcliffe
1770
Army, Lieutenant
Herm a n Eric Walters
3475
Army, Private
Joseph Alvin W elch
1766
Navy, Yeoman Third Class
Ivan Gay Westlalve
1768
Marine Corps, Sergeant
William Leonard Wilson
1765
Army, Private
PLYMOUTH No. 560
Jack Houston Clark
Army, Private F irst Class
George Vrooman Cochran
Army, Majo:r. .
Robert Eugene rMerrin
Navy, Yeoman Third Class
Alexander McC. Ramsay
·
Navy, Lieutenant
Alan Eugene Wilhite
Army, Staff Sergeant

905
902
.904
3044
903

EAST SAN DIEGO No. 561

Thomas Henry Aird
3266
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Harold Eugene Brooks
3267
Navy, Chief Quartermaster
Robert Edward Carlson
3268
Navy, Painter First Class
Jacob Brooks Cone
3269
Navy, Chief Water Tender
. Andrew Anthony Denburger
3270
Marine Corps, Master Tech. Sgt.
Charles Sunmer Edmundson
3271
Navy, Chief Water Tender
Freddie Lee Edwards
3272
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Leo Charles Fer11:uson
3273
Navy, Chief Signalman
Louis Reider Gabrielsen
3274
Navy, Storekeeper ..Third Class
Walter Ernest Gerisch
3488
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
Lewis Grady Gibson
3486
Navy, Chief Elec. Mate. Killed
in action 8-17-42.
Jordan Monroe Goad
3277
Navy, Av. Chief Carp. Mate
Ingalf Mathews Halverson
3278
. Navy, Av. Mach. Mate 1st Cl.

Frederic Montgom ery Harms
3279
Navy, Av. Chief Mach. Mate
John Arthur Hatfield
3280
Navy, C. C. Std.
Fred Holding, Sr.
3281
Navy, Chief Mach. Mate
Leslie Grant Hubert
3282
Navy. Chief Boatswain's Mate
Kenneth Chester Johnson
3276
Navy, Carpenter's Mate First Cl.
Francis Patrick LaHaie
3283
Navy, Av. Chief Metalsmith '
Roy Elbert Larimore
3284
Navy, Chief Storekeeper
Gawrence Dickinson Laughlin 3285
Army, Private
3286
William S. LePage
Navy, A. C. 0. M.
William Bryan Marlow
3287
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Frank FrederLck Miller
3288
Navy, Av. Chief Mach. Mate
Monte Cristo McLaren
3289
Na.vy, Gunner
3290
James Gilispie O'Dell
Navy, Chief Pharm, Mate
Elmer Lee Owens, Jr.·
3487
Navy, Av. Mach. Mate First Class
Charles Walton Parker
3291
M urine Corps, Chief Torpedoman
Frederick Loui~ Pate ·
3292
Navy, Chief Torpedoman
3293
James Meredith Pauley
Navy, Fireman, First Class
3294
Clifford Wesley !'eel
Navy, Elec. Mate, Second Class
W:illiam Francis Pennywitt · 3295
Navy, Fireman Second Class
Paul Eugene Pointer
3296
Navy, Chief Boatswain
3297
Henry Kind Pomroy
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
3298
Glenn Otho Poplin
Navy, Carpenter's Mate 1st Class
3299
Charles Razzeto
Navy, Chief Torpedoman
Charles David Small
3300
Navy, Av. Chief Mach. Mate
Alexander Phillip Smolen ,
3301
Marine Corps, Platoon Sergeant
Charlie Bcvley Solomon
.3302
Navy, S. C. First Class
3303
Edward Vincent Steinbach
Navy, Av. Metalsmith First Class
3304
Milford Benjamin . Stewart
Navy, Chief Signalman
3305
Carl Sargent Tappe
Navy, Chief Yeoman
3306
George Melvin Tweedy
Army, Technical Sergeant
Deward Charley Waid
3307
Navy, .Av. Machinist First Class

73

Roland Henr.•· Williams
3308
Navy, Eler.trician's Mate 1st Class
PYRAMID No. 562
Archie Elmer Barnes
2217
Army, Pr\vate
Robert V. Craver
2608
Army, Second Lieutenant
Leland Scott Crichton
2831
Navy, Machinist's l\:late 2d Clas~
Adelb•irt Olin ton FriL .. :J.er
2348
Navy, .Petty Officer First Class
Melvin Hall
2346
Navy, Hosp. Appren. Second Clas&
Harry Mayer
2347
Navy, Lieutenant
Edward Alvin Myers
2542
Army, Signal Co'rps
William Howard Owens
254l
Army, Private
William Alfred Portello
2218
Army, Technician Fifth Grade
Brewster Wayne Sabin
3573
Navy, Electrician's Mate 2d ·Class
SOUTH PARK No. 563
Heuben Lee Cole
1805
Walter William Fagent
1804
Navy, Con tr., Pac. N. A. B., Samoa
Nathan Hale
1803
Army, Corporal
180~
Olarence Willie Hannon
Navy
1801
Hiram Bruce Ikelcr
Army
2070
Arthur Leed Leisure
Navy, Motor Mach. Mate 2d Cl.
3184
Louis Liff
Army, Private
1800
Loyal Orvel Siebenthal
Army, Air Corps
1799
Chester Richland Smith
Army
1798
Clnrence Speneer Tryon
Army, Captain
3265
Willie Munroe WPems
Marine Corps, Private
FOOTHILL No. 564
Donald Leslie Bliss
Marine Corps, Sergeant . •
Frederick Robert Browne, Jr.
Army, Private
LeRoy George Gile
Army, Major
William Th.omas Humphreys
Army, Private
.
James M artin Kueper
Army, Private First Class
William Richard Mathiu.s ,
Army
J<Jdward Hawkins Morrits
Army, Fir~t Lieutenant

707
2932
798
1012
706
2799
799

74

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Arthur Henry Wilkinson.
Can. Army Captain, Med.

3170

WEST ADAMS No. 565
2579
Robert Benjamin Fletcher
Coast Guard, S. C. First Class
2584
Robert Craig Hovey
Army, Second Lieutenant
2585
Earl Sidney Mutzabaugh
Army, Private
2583
Jack Stern
.
.Army, Captain
'Minoi: Alfred Tholl!PSOJl. . . 2582
. .' Army, Private, First Class
~
James Emil Unfrid . .
' 2581
Coast Guard, 3rd Cl. Petty Officer
Wesley Forest Whitaker
_2580
Navy, Boatswain's Mate 1st Class
PARK BOULEVARD No. 568
2839
Lorin Elliott Abrott
Navy, Boatswain's Mate 2d Class
689
Harry Abbott Donlevy
Navy, Petty Officer
750
Edgar Morrison Elder
Army, Captain Air _Force
694
Guilford Russell .Jenkins
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
693
James Ellworth Johnston
Army, ]lrst Lieutenant
824
David Donald Mulford
Army, First Lieutenant
1689
James Allyn Myers
Army, Private
691
William Russell N ddder
Army, Captain ·
692
Vernon Peterson
Army, Lieutenant ·colonel
690
Carl Edward Schuetz
Army, Captain
1691
Henry Otto Schnetz
Army, Private
695
David Allen Silverman
Navy, Yeoman Second Class
1690
Robert Marvin Southgate
Navy, Lieutenant
2734
Otto Richard Wiese
Private, Army
CHATEAU THIERRY No. 569
2134
Wayne Russell Allen
Army, Colonel
2.135
Manuel Fred Castro
Navy, Ensign
.
2137
Glen Watson'Chamberla1n
Marine Corps, Fi~st Lieutenant .
Thomas Joseph Chambers
2136
. Army
2138
Dewey Gibson Clementson
Navy
2293
Robert Cox
Army, Master Sergeant

Chester. Edward Dowling
Army, Major
George Garret Dunn Jr.
Army, Major
Louis Benjamin Hufsc'hmidt
Army
Vernon Henry Hufschmidt
Army, Private
Dale Ray McCulloch
C. G., Chief Radioman
Eugene Jackson Ralston
A:rmy, First Lieutenant
Charles Victor Sip,ith. · ·
· ·· Coast Guard,- Chief Yeoman
William Mac .West
Navy
Ernest Elias Williams
Navy, Lieut. Commander
Owen Williment
Army
·
Fred Wheeler Woodward
Army, Major

2294
2295
2297
2296
2139
2298
2i40
2141
2142
2299
2143

JAMES MADISON No. 572
Paul J. Anderson
2436
Army; Private
Nelson Coin
1669
Navy, Marine Engineer
Walter Donald Nielsen
2435
Navy, Private, Air Corps
Ray Smith
1670
Army, Captain
HILLCREST No. 573
Edward Arthur Byrne
41
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mate
Thompson Yerr Cromwell
1651
Army
Milton Maxwell Newmark
40
Army, First I.ieutenant
S. W. HACKETT No. 574
Charles Henry Bense!
290
· Navy, Chief Mechanic Mat e
Harold A. Benthusen
291
Navy, l<"ire Department
William Henry Berry
292
Navy, Navy Recruiting Station
Claude Casto Bowman
293
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Vernon Samuel Boyd
294
Navy
Severino Callo
2038
Navy, Chief Yeoman
James Wilson Carl
295
Navy
William Bickford Chappell
296
Navy, Chief Electrician
Johnny W. Commons
2053
Navy, Seaman
Frank Tucker Davenport
297
Navy, Navy Recruiting

John Ransom Graham
298
Navy, Welder
J ohn A. H agan
299
Navy, Warrant Officer
Pearce M. Leyland
300
Navy
Edward Berry Ligon
301
Navy, U. S. Naval Hospital
Ernest May
302
Navy
Raymond C. McGinley
303
Navy
Eldon Ver! Peninger
305
Navy
Milton Clay Peters
306
Navy
Sam Edward Prettymon
307
Navy, Chief Carpenter's Mate
Homek Leo Ragsdale
308
Navy
Ralph Baker Randolph
309
Navy, Lieutenant Commander ·.
John Howard Renninger
310
Navy
William Walter Savaitis
311
Navy, Storekeeper
Martin Peter Scher!
312
Navy_
Ralph Kilgrove Schultz
313
Navy
Louis James Shapard
314
Navy
Joe Bailey Sheridan
315
Navy
Thomas Jackson Sikes . ·
316
Navy, Pay Clerk
Lucian LaFayette Stockton
317
Navy, Pay Clerk
Raymond Van Cor
318
Navy
John Field Winburn
319
Army, Major
Vincent Arthur Wolford
320
Navy
William Frank Yonachek
322
Navy
Frank Zwahlen
321
Navy
FORT CROOK No. 575
Albert Dale Albaugh
Bert Anthony aeinero
Army, Private

3550
2632

EL CAJON No. 576
Thomas Bryce
2056
Army, Private
Phillip George Hall
2055
Navy, Carpenter's Mate 2d Class
William Theo. Koppel
528
Army, Corporal

Julius George Ponchak
Navy, Bandmast er .
Myron Henry Waterman
. Navy, C. •r. M.

75
1649
529

SUNNYSIDE No. 577
Fred Alfred Frieble
1907
Navy, Machinist's Mate First Cl.
Harry Edward Hjorth
2901
Navy, M. M. 2d Cl.
1471
Herbert G. Honig
' Army, Captain
Charles B . Orr
1517
Navy, Painter Second Class
Deeqel't Delos Perkins
487
- ~avy, Pharm. Mate Third Class
Milton Schiff
1342
Navy, Shipfitter F irst Class
Waldo H. Stone .
488
Navy, Lieutenant
Leonard James Symington
2069
Navy, S. C. 3rd Class
Clifford Elmore Titus
1341
Av. Mech. Mate Second Class
John Edwin Whitham
1343
Navy, Warrant Officer
James Dwight Woolsey
486
Army, Private
PROGRESSIVE No. 678
Harold King Allen
3389
Navy, L ieutenant
Roy Samuel Armstrong
3150
Army, First Lieutenant
Kenneth Edgar Casperson
1904
Army, Captain (Medical Corps)
Donald Rollin Haguewood
1905
Navy, Chief Pharmacist's Mat e
Henry Herman Hodges
2529
Army, Warrant Officer J. G.
Warron D. Quenstedt
2103
Navy, Yeoman Second Class
Laverne F. Sitts
1906
Navy, Boatswain's Mate 2d Class
WARREN G. HARDING No. 579
Donald J. Hansen
3520
Army, First Lieut., Air Corps
David Wilson
3033
Army, Private First Class
SANTA MARIA No. 580
Richard Louis Baldwin
2784
Army, Lieutenant
William Elias Decker
2783
Mar. Corps, Sq. 2, G. 2 W.2, OCS
SECURITY No. 681
·Henry Eckerman Courtney
Army, Sergeant
Kenneth Leroy Dodenhof'f
Army

686
687

76

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

WASCO No. 583
Frank Legate
A.rmy, Private
Jack Albert Lighthill
Army, First I,ieutenaI1t
Herbert Philip Pritschke
Army, First L ieutenant
Roscoe Carl Steele
Army, Private

2736
1580
3194

Henry Alexander Krapf
Army Second Lieutenant
Garland' Edward Lincoln
Army, Captain
Homer Lloyd Martin
Navy, Lieutenant

2016
2020
2022

ALL' STATES No. 593
680
161
Frank Loader Barfield
Navy
148
· William Carl Beckman
HARDING No. 584
Navy
2162
Harry J ohn Berger
149
Edwar d B ourquin
Navy, Chief Yeoman
Marine Corps, Sergean t
Arthur Chester Davis
3429
152
William Glenway Dermody
Navy, Petty Offi_cer First Class
~
Navy, C. P . 0 .
Robert Gordon Elhott
319:>
1899
Grover Cleveland Dobson
Army Private First Class
Army, Intelligence S_ervice
Harold Edgar Hopping
2163
160
Sydney Willsted Dubbrns
Army Lieutenant Colonel
Navy, Lieutenant _Commander
William' Stanley Keir
'
3428
151
T r oy Knowlton Eptrng
Coast Guard, Seaman Second Class
Navy, Chief Petty ?flicer
Malcolm James Little
3479
150
William Emitroy Garrison
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Navy
Herbert T. Nickel
3193
154
Earl Webber Glines
Army, Private
Navy
Roger Hull White
2353
1900
Edwin Henry Locke
Marine Corps, Technical Sergeant
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Robert Gordon Wilde
3185
153
John Edward· Lyon
Navy, Seaman First Class
Army, First Lieutenant
156
William Meyers McColl
MANCHESTER No. 585
Army,
Private
644
155
Edward Star Baker
Phillip P. B . McElhinney
Navy, Radio
·
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
645
159
J ohn Hurbert Burnett
Stanley Zeigler Rutter
Army
Army, Private
646
158
Victor Tucker Wade
David Whitten Sykes
Army, Captain
Navy
157
Archie Lester Tower
VALLEY :FORGE No. 587
Army, Major
2334
Walter A. Wally Berger
SERVICE No. 594
Navy
2335
381
Frank Bonura
Robert Wright Allen
Army, Pharmacist
Army, C. P. 0.
2336
382
Jesse Walter Crail
Robert Emmett Anglim
Army, Private First Class
Army, C. Ph. Mate
2339
383
Robert J. P hilpott
Harold Robert Apgar
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Army, Electrician First Class
2338
Kenneth Myles Barager
385
John M. Schurr
Navy, Turret Captain
Army, Major
2337° Joseph Faulders Barr
389
Oris Ison Walker
Army, Private
Army, C. P. 0.
1359
Perry Hilson Barrett
TUJUNGA No. 592
Army, Machinist ~irst Class
Hillard Thomas Basmger
· 384
2018
Edward Andrew Bischoff
Army, Electrician First Class
Navy, Private
John Basinski
·
388
2019
A. Berchard Coppens
Army, Chief Machinist's Mate
Army, Private
Fl'e'deric Lewis Blanchard
386
2021
Robert Ralls Hendrix
Navy
Army, Private
Ed Pierson BraRhears
387
Jack Johnson
2017
Navy, Water Tender First Class
Navy, Pharmacist's Mate 2d Cl.,

Everett Wilbur Christensen
391
Army, Lieutenant J. G.
Fred Clifton Clark
390
Army, C. P. O.
Melvin Clark
392
Army, C. W .. T.
George Washington Davis
393
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Gaylord Ogden D'eHarte
395
Navy
Victor Harrison Dower
394
Navy
Lisle M . Eddy
396
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Otho Madison Fogwell
1839
Navy, Water 'Tender First Class
Robert Vance Fowler
416
Marine Corps, Corporal
Louis L ee
397
Army, Major
Ben Hamilton Griffin
398
Army, Master Sergeant
John Lee Highfill
399
Navy, Chief Photographer
Granvil Henry Jones
401
Army, Warran t Machinist
Gerald DeLos Kint
3040
Navy, Boatswain's Mate First Class
Roy Dillard Jones
400
Navy, Pharm. Mate First Class
Malcolm Kirkpatrick
403
Army, Captain
William James Kirt r ell
402
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
L ester Lee Lishman
404
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Glen Martin
407
Navy, Chief Electrician's Mate
Albin Gustav Matson
408
N.avy, Ensign
Roy Allan McMillan
405
Army, Major
Alfred Orion Miller
,
410
Navy, Machinist First Class
Stanley Bernard Moran
406
Navy
Edward Ross Morris
409
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Frederick Cannon Petet
413
Marin e Corps, Sergeant
Henry Jack son Price
411
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
John Wesley Pugh ·
412
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
George Arthur Richards
3041
Army. Ensign
James Burl Rollins
1252
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Raymond Ford Silver
414
Navy. C. M. M.
Ar thur DenemarkSmalley
421
Navy. Chief Petty Officer
Robert Rudolf Smits
418
Navy, Chie~ Petty Officer

Clarence Martin Smith
N avy, Chief Petty Officer
Clive Paul Snyder
Army, Second Lieut enant
Milton Ernest Stau
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
John Joseph Sysol
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
J ack Brennen Vinson
N avy
Ira A lvin Weaver
Navy, Chief Radioman

77
419
417
415
420··
4~ ·

423

ALEX. GRAHAM BELL No. 595
Eugene Joseph Bryan .
282
Army, Second Lieutenant
Rob ert Henry Coe
283
Army, First Lieutenant
R oy Reginald Divel, Jr.
911
Navy
Henry Augustus Ferguson
3191
Army, Major
Fred Otis Stephenson
912
N avy, Electrician's Mate 3rd Class
Charles Murwyn Thompson
2748
Army, First Lieutenant, Air Corps
Sol Hiram Wronker
284
Army, Private
GUARDIAN No. 596
Willard Delve Bretz
1810
Navy, Lieutenant
Ollie Oscar Byam
3580
Navy, Machinist's Mate 2nd Class
Henry Sherman Douglass
1811
A rmy, Major
Robert Alain Embleton
3581
Coast Guard, Water Ten. 2nd Class
Herbert George Jarrett
3247
Army, Private
Parker Lochiel Johnstone
1812
Army, First Lieutenant
David Reeves Knape
1813
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Wilbur Dale Leifhelm
N avy, Motor Mach. Mate 2nd Class
Wilbur Alton Lunday
3248
Army, Second Lieutenant
John Bernard Nye
1815
Army, Officers' Training School
Kenneth Henry. Robinson
3251
N avy, Hospital Appren. 1st Class
Clyde Francis 'Smith
1816
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Alfred James Trembly
· · 1817
Army. First. Lieutenant
Robert Newton Wedii;t
1818
N avy, Pharmacist Third Class
Allen .Joseph Winfield
3252
Army, Seri;teant
Ernest Leo H erri n
3582
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
John W. Maddox
3249
Marine Corps, Sergeant

GRAND LODGE O.F <;:ALIFORNIA

78

79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LYNWOOD No. 600
3250
Otis Miles
1863
Clyde
Birchfield
Navy
' Navy, Seaman
1885
PEARL HARBOR No. 598
Percy Oscar Parker
Army, Captain
William Harvey Anderson
2636
1864
Richard Hamell Pence
Navy, Av. Chief Ordnance Mai;i
Navy, Lieu!. O~mmande.r
William Henry Beers, J .r.
31 79
Navy, Lieutenant
GRIZZLY No."601
3491
Hardy Burt
.
1554
Loren Seward Jacobs
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
3180
Army,
Private
Albert Lee Clark
601
Walter Russell Lindersmith
Navy
3181
Army
Major,
Air
Corps
William Collins
1553
Francis'Leonard O'Rourke
Navy, Chief Yeoman
3490
NB;vy, Ensign
Charles Alma CoQmbs
Navy, Chief Gunner
3171
MELROSE No. 602
James Earl Cruce
Navy, Petty Officer First Class
Donald Montgomery Campbell 3557
317 2
Navy, Apprentic~ Seaman
Staten Lee Douglas
1697
Navy, Boatswain
Jack Frank Cotharm
Thomas Edgar Farrow
3175
Army, Private.
1698
Noble Earl Cates
Navy, Chief ~adioman
3178
Army, Private
Sylvester Ferreira
701
Navy, Lieutenant Commander ·.
Alva Rey Ebrite
Hulbert Ellis Flowers
3173
Army, Civ. Flying Instructor
703
Navy Chief Yeoman
Orville J·ames Emery
Sanford Othanite Householder 2638
Army Lieutenan!, J. G.
Judson Messen.ger ·.l!.ivans
2750
Navy, Bandmaster
3176
Navy, ChiefElectricia,n's Mate
Harry Edwards Jones
702
Navy, Seaman
Edward Gates
3174
Army Second Lieutenant ·
Leonard Hunter Long
William' Roy Donald Gu~c~er,
1097
Navy, M. M. First Class
2641
Army, Av. Chief Machinists Mate
Leonard J_,udtke
Navy, Marine Gunner
3177
DIMOND No. 603
Allen Gordon MacKay
2786
Navy Chief Radioman
Albertinus
Andersen
2640
Bailor Daniel McCormack
Navy, Lieutenant
Army Technical Sergeant
Frank Rhodes Carpenter
1339
3492
Oscar T~mple McLaurin .
Army Guard (War Dept.)
·
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Alfred j ohannes Martin Pr.ien 7.42
2639
Mark Emanuel Turner
Coast Guard, Master of Light Ship
Navy Chief Machinist's Mate
Robert Edward Sharp
3254
2637
Aredus Buck Wade, Jr.
Navy Boatswain's Mate, 2nd Class
Navy, Quartermastet
Richard Meurig Thomas
743
Navy, First Mate
CARMELITA No. 599
2326
Arthur William Anderson
JUBILEE No. 604
1173
Army, Captain
Walter Griswold Bacon
3404
Stanley Keller Brown
Navy Lieutenant J. G.
1172
.Army, Major
Vernon 'Voris Sherman
2322
George Collins Fortner
Army,
Private
Navy, Mach. Mate Second Class ·
1171
Everett Raymond Skaggs
2323
Harold Dezell Green
Navy Machinif!t's Mate, 2nd Class
Army First Lieutenant
Francis' Craig Sloan
.
. 2332
·2324
Charles 'Nelvin Herd
Navy, Chief Warrant Officer
Navy, Lieutenant
3405
GLASSELL PARK No. 605
Lawrence Carl Jepsen
Army, Private
William Russell Everitt
3436
3406
John Haviland Maxson
Navy, Warrant Mach. Mate
853
Army, Major Air Corps
Walter Montee Holcomb
2325
Charles William Paddo.ck
Navy, Chief Quartermaster
Marine Corps, Captam

William George Merkel
1661
Army, Private
Henry Gilbert Scudder
484
Navy, Seaman Fi;rst Class
Stewart Ellis· Trumbull
3437
Army, First Lieutenant
John Lee Truex
1082
Navy, Ship Fitter First Class
SOJOURNER No. 607
George Clark McFarlin
Army, Major

648

GRANADA No. 608
John Hughes Adams
1516
Navy, Lieutenant S. G.
Cornelius Julius Bach
842
Navy, Yeoman Second Class
Edward Paul Boller
843
Army, Lieutenant
John Macintosh Cassidy
844
Army
John Wentworth Kreidler
3255
Marine Corps, Private
Theodore Roosevelt Leen
845
Army, First Lieutenant
Norman Harry Leonard
1515
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Chester Joseph Roman
2776
Navy, Sea.man Second Class
846
Dr. Ralph L. Schroeder
Army, First Lieutenant
Harold Allan Taylor
847
Army
Francis E. Welch
1617
Navy, Carpenter's Mate First Class
John Dahlgren. Wilson
848
Navy, Chief Boatswain
Joe Paymond Yockers
849
Nav,y, Lieutenant J. G.
PROVIDENT No. 609
Lawrence Bowa .
814
Army, Private
George Treasure
813
Army, Major, Medical
Paul Simpson Garwood
812
Army, Captain, Signal Corps
John James Gibney
3143
Army, Private
Norman Michael Goldberg
811
Army, Major (Chaplain)
.
Ma,jor Lee Harrison
3146
Navy, Mach. Mate First Clas!!'
Leo ~'rancisco Hill
809
Marine Corps, Privatt1
Curtis Albert Hof'l'man, Jr.
810
Coast Guard
Dana Ogden Hooke
807
Army, Private
James Haines Howell
3145
Army, Second Lieutenant
Conrad Julius Lutgen
808
Army, Major

Jerald Bruce Wilson
Army, Air Corps Cadet

3144

ELMHURST No. 610
Jac}c Audette Hayes
734
Army, Captain, Air Corps
Erb.ardt Carl Ko.erper
732
Army, ~ieutenant, Air Corps
Victor Eugene Koerper
733
Army, Li'eutenant
l;eonard Lockyer
2492
Army, Private
. Harry Albert Waldorf
7;15
. Marine Corps, Capt11-iJJ.
CANOGA No. 611
Charles William Clifford
Army, Major

915

TEMPLE CITY 612
John Boyd Doyle
1025
Army, Lieutenant
William Taylor Gammons, Jr. 1026
Navy, Operator
Thomas Reed Hardman
1027
Navy, Chief Quartermaster
Chester Whitaker Mills
1729
Army, First Lieutenant
Robert Kenneth Miller
1028
Army, Corporal
Robert Hiram Saunders
1029
Coast Guard, Seaman Second Class
THREE PILLARS No. 613
Paul Webster Carrington
3028
Army, Private, Air Corpe
Robert Arada Gilmore
240
Army, Corporal
George David Haskett
1846
Army, Private
Alexander Richaru Heron
3029
Army, Colonel
William Raymond Jayes
1038
Army 1 First Lieutenant
Clinton Samuel King ..
1!41
Navy, Lieutenant Commandor
242
J.am'es Lawrence Levenanler
Army, Captain
Samuel Basil Mascorella
24J
Army, Private
Raymond A lien McConnt1ll
!l44
Army, Private
Bryant Wilson
245
Army, Chaplain
Willinm W·e sley Wilson, .Tr.
1844
Navy, Radio Operator 2nd Clrtss
LARCHMONT 614
Elmer Ruel Ames
2852
Marine Corps, Captain
Johannas Cornelius Heldoorn
2190
Navy, Av. Mechanic First Class
John LaFayette Herrick
2189
Army, Private

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Willis Edward Llewellyn
Navy, Av. Chief Ord.
Theodore George Nilsson
Army, Private
Richard Keith Smith
Navy, Lieutenant J . G.
Wilbur Kenneth Whiteman
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
HEMET No. 615
Mitchel Leon Cory
Army, Captain
John Nedvidek
Army, Captain

1545
991
990
1955

2617

R. E. DOLLEY No. 616
Edisen Ashwerth
609
Army, Private
Clement Clyde Doyle
1932
Navy
Douglas Allen Lawhead
1929
Army, Second Lieutenant
Joe Francis Lockner, Jr.
1924
Navy, Warrant Elec.
Peter MacPherson
1925
Navy, Av. Mach. Mate 2nd Class
1928
Malcolm Palmer Maples
Navy
John Louis Newland
1931 .
Marine Corps
.
Thomas Edward Schuster
1930
Navy, Carpenter's Mate, 2nd Class
Bryan Simmons
1926
Navy, Machinist's Mate, 2nd Class
Charles Edward Sweany
1927
Navy, killed Dec. 7, P.H.
BI G BEAR N.o. 617
Frank Nicker!
Army, Private First Class
Leslie Raybold
Army, Major, Air Corps

479
478

SOUTHLAND No. 618
Kenneth Everett Brundage
3594
Merr.hant Marine, Engineer
Olaf Konrad Clausen
864
Merchant Marine, First Officer
John Arthur Dail
870
Navy, Yeoman
Carlito Stewart Griswold
3593
Navy, Radio Technician
Henry Kirksey Kellogg
869
Army, Major
William L. Maule
3590
Merchant Marine, Engineer
Ernest George Moe .
1065
Army, First Lieutenant
WiTiiam Henry Noonan
865
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Charles Gilbert Ryder
866
Army. Cadet, Air Corps
Henry Gustave Seyler
867
Army, Chief Engineer's Aide

Ralph Emmett Smith
Merchant Marine, Engineer
William J. Walker
Merchant Marine, Engineer
Ralph Edward Wallace
Army, Major
Donald Hawthorne Wilkins
Army, Captain

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3591
3592
868
2050

POINT LOMA No. 620
2528
George Edwards Allison
Marine · Corps, Master Sergeant
Melvin Dixon Anglin
2527
Navy, Chief Torpedo Man
James William Barton
2526
Navy
Harold Rae Belc"her
2525
Marine Corps
Harold Leroy Boyd
2524
Navy, Av. Chief Machinist
John Marion Bradley
2523
Navy
Clyde Evans Brown
2522
Navy
Roy Frederick Brown
2521
Navy
William Ola Bull
2520
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Dougal Harvey. Cameron
2495
Marine Corps, Platoon Sergeant
Neal R. Chandler
1967
Navy, Baker First Class
James Irwin Clas.Pill
1963
Navy, S. K. Thud Class
Richard Frederick Collins
2519
Navy, Chief Commissary Steward
Verle Melbourne Counts
2518
Navy
Robert Arthur Crook
2517
Navy
James Elliott Dudley
1962
Coast Guard, B'tswain's Mate F. C.
Richard Weller Emrich
2516
Navy, C. S. M.
Albert Fleckacs
2515
Marine Corps
William Goodsell Gates
1964
Coast Guard, Chief Radioman
John Elmer Haskins
·
2514
Marine Corps
Laurel Paul Holden
2513
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
James Elmer Hollycross
2512
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Lund Foster Hood
2511
Marine Corps
Walter R. Hooper
1968
Marine Corps, Marine Gunner
Geo.rge Johennes Jorgenson
2510
Marine Corps. Mt. Sergeant
Charles Ernest Kauffman
2716
Navy, Warrant Boatswain
Frederick Victor Lanphere
2509
Navy, Chief Petty Officer

81

Ralph David Lathrop
2508
James Watson Van Osten
2838
~a vy, Chief Petty Officer
Navy, Yeoman First Class
Arthur Charles Love
2507
Donald Peck Wilkinson
595
Navy
Navy, Chief Electrician's Mate
Joseph Russell Lownes
2506
Marine Corps
FORTITUDE No. 624
2505
George Webster MacBride
Asa Saunders Anthony, Jr.
1301
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Navy, Electrician's Mate 2nd Class
Fred Grant Markle
. 1961
2300
George Clayton McGann
Coast Guard, War. Boatswain
Navy, Storekeeper First Class
Charles Binger Martinson, Jr, 2504
Francis Edward Oliver
1650
Coast Guard
Navy
Charles Glenwood May
2503
Navy, Pharmacist ~'irst Class
AN GELES ME SA N o. 625
2502
Adolph Wessel Meyers
Edward Davis Arndt
1124
Navy, Chief Pharm. Mate
Army, First Lieutenant
Wilmer Pfiel Miller
1982
Lester Albert Klatt
·
1671
Navy, Av. Mach. Mate 2nd Class
Army, Private
Fred Russell Philpot
2501
Walter Matt Luoma
1133
Marine Corps, Quartermaster Clerk
Navy, Metalsmith Third ClasS'
:
Edward Albert Shulins
1969
Wellington Harlan Maddox
1134
Navy, Chief Metalsmith
Navy, Yeoman First Class
Everettee Alvin Skarda
2500
Hilbert Parker Stiv·ers
2121
Coast Guard
Navy, Chief Quartermaster
William l;'arker Smith
1966
Charles Herbert Wilson, Jr.
2120
Marine Corps, Quartermaster Sgt.
Army, Private
James Taylor
1965
L AMANDA P ARK No. 627
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate
Earl Wayne Thompson
2499
Fritz Charles Purrucker
2893
Marine Corps, Sergeant
Navy, Gunner
Harry Herbert Ussery
2498
Leland Stanford Whitney
2561
Navy
Army, Private
Roy Ernest Vogel
2497
TRU TH No. 628
Marine Corps, First Sergeant
Wiley William Webb
2730
Harvey Ellsworth Billig
78
Navy, Chief Yeoman
Army, Lieutenant
Earl Byron Wilcox, Jr.
2496
C. Zeno Holt
77
Navy
Army, Colonel
Thomas Edgar Lindsey
2698
THE GAR.DEN S No. 621
Navy, Lieutenant
Gerald Ulm Howell
712
Wesley Percival Terry
518
Navy, C. P. 0. Optical Division
Navy, Aviator
Harper Georeg Imler
1886
Spalding Trafton, Jr.
111
Army, Captain, Medical Corps
Navy, Lieutenant
Nicola Johnny Kissich
2836
F AI RVIEW No. 629
Navy, Petty Officer Second Class
Herbert Henry Sellenrick
2837
Lee Monroe Duke
3263
Navy, Mach. Mate Second Class
Navy, Lieutenant J. R.
Sylvester Jesse Turner
713
James Thomas Fish
950
Army, Private
Army, Chaplain, First Lieutenant
Andrew Adolf Lutt·e rbein
1149
ATWATER No. 622
Army, Private
Floyd l:arl Carman
2197
Challes Anderson Markwith
3494
Army
Army, Cadet, Air Corps
Ralph Fremean Coops
2198
William Glen Markwith
3493
Navy
Army, Cadet, Air Corps
Walter Farmer
3039
Gustave Nerling·
3264
Navy, Seaman First Class
Navy, Chief Water Tender
George Willie Linkletter
2731
Monte Barrow Overman
1772
Navy, Chief Carpenter's Mate
Navy, Storekeeper Third Class
Thomas Carlton Seeley
596
William Corlett Riter
, 880
Army, Captain
Army, Lieut enant
·
Harvey Alva Towner
597
Taylor Hamilton Snow
951
Army, Captain
Ai:my, First Lieutenant

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

John David Stephens
3261
Navy, Electrician's Mate 3rd Class
3262
W.illiam Kesner Swinhart
Navy, C. P .. O. Const. Batt.
INGLESIDE No. 630
1140
Clifford Lewis Barnes
· Navy, Pharmacist'·s Mate 2nd Class
Charles Clarence Bradley
1000
Marine Corps, Major
Henry Christian Clausen
10
Army, Captain
Paul James Knibb
Army, First Lieutenant
Dr. Lloyd Lyttleton Penn
999
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
BENEVOLENT No. 631
Richard Alvin Bicknell
1575
Navy, Boatswain's Mate 2nd Class
Tullie Wadsworth Cato
1071
Army, First Lieutenant
John Bancroft Clark
444
Navy, Lieute.nant
Leonard George Clark
2355
Navy, Electrician FiTst Class
Charles Thomas Fryett
1070
Navy, Elect. Seaman Third Class
Orville Pahl Hilton
112
Army, Private
Carl Samuel Kleinau
1068
Army, Captain
Charles Murray Truax
1069
.,Navy, T. M;· St. Gr.
NORMAL HEIGHTS No. 632
Aime Pete Athenour
3448
Marine Corps, Marine Gunner
Neil G. Boothby
3449
Army, Second Lieutenant
Gilbert Mark Colbeck
3450
Army, Second Lieutenant
Ralph Ward Ellis
3451
Navy, Chief Radioman
Thomas H. Exton
3452
N·avy, Chief Radioman
Edward Joseph GTenfell
3453
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
John Edward Kinne!
3454
Navy, Chief Carpenter's Mate
Louie L. Lindenmayer
3455
Navy, Lieutenant Commander '
3456
Cecil R. Richardson
Navy
John H. Sessler
3457
Navy. Chief Storekeeper
Philip H. Smith
3458
Navy. Chief Water Tender
Harry Vance·
3459
Navy, Chief Machinist's Mate
William H. Wood
~· '"- 3460
Navy, Chief Boatswain's Mate

POINSETTIA No. 633
Edwin Lee Anderson
3334
Navy, Pharmacist Third Class
Charles J. Brown
3332
Army, Private
Ted Shadrack Bunnell
3333
Navy, Chief Carpenter's Mate
Lynn Lawrence Cate
3331
Army, Private
David Dean Crow
970
Army, Sergeant
James Horace Giddings, Jr.
968
Army, Military Police
Raymond Aubrey Haas
972
Army, Ordnance Reg. School
Donald Groat MacGillivray
967
Army, Private
Jack Rogers McKee
969
Navy, Boatswain's Mate 2nd Class
Robert Arthur Zapf
973
· Army, Corporal
RIVERSIDE No. 635
Emory Cecil Arledge
2895
Navy, Yeoman Second Class
Floyd Smithson Atherton
1368
Army, Private
Harry Dougal Black
1830
Army, Private
Neal Bray
1509
Army, First Lieutenant
Roland Franklin Bradley
1732
Army, Sergeant
William Benjamin Brockway
1834
Army, Sergeant
Thomas Dennis
1831
Army, Private First Class
Calvin Lynne Goldston
1367
Army, Master Sergeant
George Wesley Greene
1833
Army, Corporal
Alvin A. Haueter
2555
Army, Private First Class
Rolla Burchard Hess
1739
Army, Captain, Medical Corps
Keith Franklin James
1832
Navy, Lieutenant S. G.
Daniel Humphreys Jones
1735
Army, Master Sergeant
Elmer MacMillian Katzenstein 1508
Army, Private
Lynn Grant Knudsen
1505
Army, A. C.. Master Sergeant
John D'aniel Martin
1731
Army. Warrant Officer
John William May
1737
ATmy, First Sergeant
Millard Clinton McClurg
1952
Army, Master Sergeant
Hugh McCulloch
2232
Navy. Chief Machinist's Mate
Gordon Warren Mitchell
1510
Navy, Sailor

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'Herbert Lindsay Southworth
Navy, Ensign
Charles Nicholas Torok
Army, Private First Class
Charles Jerome Zupp
Army1 Private

3237
166
2735

LA CUMBRE No. 642
Rodney Fremont Atsatt
. 2381
Navy, Commander, Medical Corps
Joseph Gary Campbell
2967
Army, Captain
William Raby Johnston
2548
Navy, Lieutenant J . G.
Edward Leopold Markthaler
23~0
Navy, Lieut. Com., Medical Corps.
Thomas Sexton Ralph
2968
Navy, Photographer
A. E. F . IRWIN No. 1145
William L . Bowers
461
Army
Joseph R. DeWitt
460
Navy, Watchmaker
Frank Richards Gunn
459
Army
Harrel Abner Kirk ,
456
Navy
Arthur Ernest Lally
457
Navy
Daniel Webster Mercer
458
Navy
Patsy P. Pane
455
Navy
Eli Burton Parsons
462
Navy
Joseph Turnauer
454
Navy
Ralph Alvia Wiley
463
Navy
John L. Wyckoff
2666
Navy
METROPOLITAN No. 64S
Chester Marston Glass, Jr.
2888
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
Hans Arthur Leonhardt
435
Army, Captain
Rex Ragan
1148
Army, Captain
Louis Nichols Schacherer
1771
Navy, Seaman
Thomas Jefferson White
434
Army, Major

83

Lindsey Eugene Muse
1507
Army, Sergeant, Ail' Corps
Charles Painter
1738
Army, Second Lieutenant
Lloyd James Potter . .
1829
Army, Civil Service Pilot
Samuel Robinovitz
1734
Army, Master Sergeant
Harold John Schomberg
2485
Navy, Lieutenant
David Semple
1506
Army, Master Sergeant, A. C.
William Kenneth Sheffield
1828
Army
Ballard Burton Small
1827
Navy
Frank William Smith
1826
Army
Leslie Stephenson
1369
Army, Master Sergeant
Harold Arthur Strong
1736
Army, Major
Carroll Theodore Tower
1733
Army, Master Sergeant
Stanley Howard Walker
1740
Army, Captain
Charles Proctor White
3324
Army, Staff Sergeant
JOHN MARSHALL No. 636
Dean McLaughlin Walker
2387
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
PALISADES No. 637
John Stuart Frazer
2975
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Cyril John Gail
2823
Navy, Lieutenant
Robert Lee Moore
1072
Navy, Electrician's Mate 2nd Class
INDIAN ROCK No. 638
Knut Bjarne Gundersen
1846
Army
Erie Rexford Hall
1197
Army; Second Lieutenant
Milton George Mauer
522
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Earl Lyle Mullinix
521
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Edward Albert Stahl
2464
Navy, Chief Petty Officer

DAMASCUS No. 648
Ralph Otis Chaney
852
Marine Corps, Private First Class
Clarence Trevitt Johnson
851
Army, Major

COMPOSITE No. 639
Milton Hoffman
2587
Army, Second Lieutenant, A. C.
Morris Holzband
2588
Army, Sergeant Q. M. Dept.
Jack Schindler ·
2390
Army, Private

FLORENCE No. 649
Robert Irvin Allen
1667
Navy, Gunner's Mate First Class

VERITAS No. 640
Robert Harbin Rushing
Army, First Lieutenant

445

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

491
Dr. Benjamin F. Corbin
Army, Veterinarian
Merlin Darrell
1666
Navy, Boilermaker First Class
Howard W. Klahr
489
Marine Corps, Corporal
64
Jay J. Palmer
Army, Major
Robert Mitchell Perkinson
3343
Navy Petty Officer Second Class
Albert Parson Radich
2451
Air Corps
3190
Edward Thedore Schoenefelt
Navy, Seaman Third Class
490
Carl C. Spring
Army
LA BREA No. 650
Clarence Jacob Brown
1293
Navy, Electrician's Mate
Duncan Keith Caldwell
2900
Tech. Corp., Great Britain
Leland James Ervin
2119
Navy, Shipfitter Third Class
James Dayton Garrigues
2487
Marine Corps, Private
Edward George Huefe
1352
Marine Corps, Captain
Eugene Mason
1490
Navy, Electrician's Mate 2nd Class
Laurence Raymond
1491
Army, Private
Chester Joseph Nowak
1353
Navy, Ensign
William Horatio Parcels
1354
Navy, Lieutenant
Nelson Elmer Roberts
1355
Navy 1 Chief Electrician's Mate
Gordon Nevoy Smith
.
1356
Marine Corps, Tr. Sch., Au Corps
Martin Luther Thomas
1357
Army, Major
John Henry Winch
2756
Army, Private
MENLO PARK No. 651
Allan Fraser Aldwell
3561
Navy, Machinist's Mate 2nd Class
JORDAN'S GROVE No. 654
Ronald Herbert Baker
1281
Army, Private
.
Ea:d DeArmond
1280
Navy Chief Carpenter'!! Mate
Jay Clahde Powers
;l.279
Army, Private
John Ernest Porter
2096
Navy Water Ten<}er First Class
John L~ndyl Richerson
3424
Army, Major
MONTE VISTA No. 655
Walter James Swere Burdick
3157
Navy, Storekeeper Third Class

Earl Erwin Comingore
3158
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
William Hugh Dyer, Jr.
1106
Navy, Ensign
Joe Hardin
3155
Navy, Motor Mach. Mate 2nd Class
Warren Montgomery Johnston 1108
Army, Lieutenant
Grover Britton Jones
1107
Navy, Electrician's Mate 1st Class
Clifford Charles Miller
1105
Army, Second Lieutenant
Albert Henry Morris
2758
Navy, Shipfitter Third Class
William Lewis Sloan
2757
Navy
Urban Xavier Tretter
1104
·Navy, Water Tender Second Class
William Merritt Walker
2759
Army, Captain
William Morton Watkins, Jr.
3156
Navy, Ensign
JOHN D. SPRECKELS No. 657
Earl 1''. Allendorph
443
Navy, C. P. 0. (Chief Par. Rigger)
James Perry Barth
441
Navy
.
John Martin Bemis
440
Navy, C. P. 0 .
Floyd Raymond Bertschi
936
Navy, C. P.O.
Gregor William Boyer
442
Navy, C. P. 0.
Jack Ross Brumbaugh
1613
Navy
William Lee Burnside
1492
Army, Lieutenant
Dennie Chavis
1498
Navy, Csp. Mechanic
Ardell Leroy Cody
1614
Navy
Elliott G. Colby
946
Army, Lieut. Col., Medical Corps
Thomas Frank Cullen
937
Navy, C. P. 0.
John Horace Everson
938
Navy, Commander
Raymond Alwood Gosnell
939
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Orion Buford Graves
940
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Milo Horten Gridley
·
934
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Ori! Stone Harbaugh
941
Army, Major
,James Lea Harlan
942
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
John Harris
.
943
Navy, C. P. 0 . (Water Tender)
George Alvin Heusner
944
Navy
Otto August Housevicka
945
Army, Captain

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Coleman Daniel Hulette
947
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Alton Bookman Jackson
1496
Navy, Lieutenant J. G.
Ralph Wayne Jerabek
1608
Army, Captain
Folkey Lauretz Johnson
948
Army, Lieutenant
Joseph Frank Kotva
949
Navy, C. S. K.
William Frances Kramer
933
Marine Corps, Lieutenant
Ludwig N. Ladd
1615
Army, First Lieutenant
John Patrick Lydon
932
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Roy Everett McDaniel
931
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Joseph Francis Medeiros
1080
Navy
Meade Eugene Murphy
1612
· Navy, W. T. First Class
Arthur James Nichols
1495
Nav.y, Chief Petty Officer
John Herbert Ross
930
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
Angurish Runnels
1610
Navy
George Howard Sandstrom
1609
Navy
Henri Charles Sofield
929
Navy, Chief Petty Officer
John Wesley Spainhower
928
Army, Ca11tain
1611
George Oren Stechman
Navy
William Shiffler Sutliff
927
Army
Wayne Burton Updegraff
1497
Navy, Pharm. Mate Second Class
Earl Francis Weir
1494
Navy, C. E. M.
Everett Emmitt Weire
1493
Navy, Chief Quartermaster
LIVINGSTON. No. 658
Oral Purdy Adams
Navy F. C. Third Class
Robert Clinton Arnold
Army, Cadet Air Corps
Clifford Howard Church
Navv. Electrician
Ralph ·warren Gant
Navy, Yeoman First Class
Robert Von Smith
Army, Sergeant

2828
2827
1607
2829
2830

MALTA No. 66~
Albert John Laporte
763
Navy, Chief Torpedoman
Arthur Archibal<l M~. Clurkin , 3257
Army, Ma.i or. Medical Corps
Rov Cruger Whitelaw
764
Army, Corporal

' 85

HENRY KNOX No. 662
Donald Tisdale Babcock
2196
Warner Melnott Barrus
2195
Navy, Lieutenant
Samuel Henry Butler
3188
Army
Edgar George Davis
2199
Army, Captain
Robert Soule Dicey
2202
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Homer Oliver Eaton, Jr.
2200
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
James Reed Gattman
2201
Navy
Thomas Randolph Gibbon
2203
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
William Glen Harris
2204
· Army, Lieutenant Colonel
George William Henderson
2205
Navy, Lieutenant
Daniel Harrison Hudelson
2206
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
George DeWitt LaMoree
2207
Army, First Lieutenant
Arthur Francis LaRouche
2208
Army, Major
Arthur J. Pancook
2209
Army, Captain
Percy Wallace Rairden
2210
Lieutenant Commander
Percy Wallace Rairden, Jr.
2211
Navy
Richard Maxwell Rockoff
2212
Army, First Lieutenant
Kenwood Black Rohrer
2213
Army, Captain
Milton C. Sohn
2214 .
Army, Major
Maurice Domonic Stratta
2215
Army, Captain
OJAI No. 663
Harry Lewis Blasdell
Navy, Machinist's Mate
Carl Marvin Burgess
Army, Act. Corp.
George N. Ragan
Army, Captain

971
3509
530

RESEDA No. 666
Chalmer Felter Sperry
2743
Navy. Chief Mechanic's Mate
Frank Harvey Wood
1981
Navy, Chief Commissary Steward
MERIDAN No. 667
John Claiborne Cash
Navy, Rm. Third Class
Theodore Martin Charlston
Army, Captain
Wayne Cronk
Army, Private
Stepper Louis Higgins
Navy

935
817
816
2073

86

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Harry Rowe Jenkins
Army, Private
John Leslie Losinger
Army
Caroll Martin Sovde
Navy
Cecil Curtis Wade
Army, Captain
Edgar Linne] Mariette
Army, Air Corps, Ca,ptain

2394
3047
3046
815
3048

SAN GORGONIO No. 668 .
Robert Greenleaf Brankamp
2947
. Navy, Lieutenant
Cleo Marion Huse
2946
Navy, Seaman Apprentice
Carl Thomas Loveless
2948
Navy, Pharmacist Second Class
Carl Phillips
2535
Army, Ground Service, Air Corps
Wilbur Albert Switzer
2533
Army
Allen Pierce Thomason
3417
Army, Private
Frederic Sevier Wing
2534
· Navy, Seaman Second Class
JOHN P. JARMAN No. 669
Arlen Vernon Basile
472
Army, Private, M. P.
Bret Harte Brallier
471
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Frank Henry Hartman
1602
Navy, Chief Elect. P. 0.
Fred Paul Hauck, Jr.
470
Navy, Ensign
. Lewis Brooks Steward, Jr.
1601
Army, Private
Selmer Rudolph Thompson
1884
Marine Corps, Private
GREANLEAF No. 670
Edward Merle Crum
782
Army, Military Police
Irving Freed Dingman
1627
Navy, Aviation Mach. Third Class
Donald Stevenson Hall
1921
Navy, Cook Second Cl11ss
Joseph William Hodge
1856
Navy, Elec. Mate Second Class
Loy d Lavern L akin
3231
Army, Specialist A, Signal Corps
Thomas Ralph M cGaff
34·4
Army, Military Police
Elmer Walter Meyerett
1499
Marine ·Corps, Private
George Randolph Miller
3554
Navy, Lieutenant S. G.
Don Sandy Waltmire
2074
Navy
FAR WEST No. 673
964
Jaek Chambers Hopkins
Marine Corps, Marine

Ian Thomas Kay
Navy, Student Air Pilot
Joseph Peter Mandl
Army, Major
Harris McVey
Army, British
James McVey
Army, British
David-William Minto
Army, Royal Air Force
Charles Raymond Nelson
Army, Transport Officer
Clarence N orvall
Army, Private
Winthrop Burrel Polk
Navy, Radio Operator
Stanley Siska
Navy
Max John Weber
Navy, Yeoman
MODESTO No. 675 .
Everett Hunnell Brandenbur~
Marine Corps, Private
Harold Benjamin Goldberg
Navy, Seaman First Class
Lawrence McClure
Army, Private
Thomas Campbell Richter
N avy, Seaman Second Class

960
966
957
958
965
959
961
956
962
963

1677
2459

ALTADENA No. 678
Ira Grover Erichsen ·
Army, Private
Ed ward Goldstein
Army
Max Martin Goldstein
Army, Private
Robert James Hatfield
Marine Corps
Carl Elldridge Ledbetter
Army, Major
,
Chester Julian Salazar
Marine Corps, Captain
Victor Myron Trask
Army, First Lieutenant

2909
346
2327
2775
113
114
345

CANBY CROSS No. 679
Fred Fisher
98
Mar. C., S. K. 3rd Class, N.R.A.B .
Elza Paul Fitzpatrick
3508
Peder Vincent Larsen
97
Navy ·
CARMEL No. 680, F. & A. M.
Herbert Chester Fairley
323
Army, Captain

87

Horace Albert Hawkeswood
3139
Navy, Electrician's Mate 2nd Class
Charles Gest Lawrence
480
Army, Colonel
Robert Paul Spencer
1164
Army, Second Lieutenant
DOS PALOS No. 681
Charles John Howard
50
Army, First Lieutenant
William Henry Jernigan Slaton 3242
Navy, Motor Ma~h. ~fate 2nd Class
BARSTOW No. 682
Arthur LeRoy Imel ·
Navy, Apprentice Seaman
Louie Jack Rice
Army, Cadet Air Corps

2392
2449

TRON'A No. 684
Robert Armstrong, Jr.
610
Navy, Air Mechanic Second Class
Marlin Ward Ditchey
611
Army, Second Lieutenant, A. C.

1841
2727

WILLOW GLEN No. 676
919
Alfred Bernard Anden1,o n
Navy
·
920
Robert A. Basile
Navy
1700
William James Doy le
· Army, Lieutenant Colonel
921
Lawrence L. Gott
Army, First S ergeant
922
Holger Gelting Hansen
Army, Sergeant Major
791
Eugene Ferdinand Hanser
Army, Private First Class
924
John Delos Webster
Army, Private First Class
LIBERAL ARTS No. 6·7 7
Edward Montague Blight
64;0
Army , Major
LeQn T. David
637
Army, Lieutenant Colonel
Randolph Karr
1699
Army, Captain
Ernest Joseph P a nosian
639
Army, Lieutena nt
Austin Patterson
3187
Coast Guard, M. M . I. C.
Byron Chase W anglin
670
Navy, Lieutenant Commander
Harry Dudley Williams
638
Army, Captain

Hawaiian Islands' Lodges
Most of our members are familiar with the history and traditions of
le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371, at Honolulu, which received its
original charter from France in 1842, and which had planned to celebrate
its lOOth anniversary last April. This celebration, rudely cancelled by war
conditions, would have attracted to it the Grand Masters of most of the
Grand Lodges of the world. One of the outstanding facts about this
Hawaiian Lodge is that its Masters have come from the ranks o.£ rich
and poor alike, from the lowly as well as those in high places, thus
typifying the equality of man, one of the foundation tenets of Freemasonry.
One of the deepest regrets of my past year of stewardship has been
that I was unable to go to the Hawaiian Islands for the annual visit customarily made by the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of California.
However, because of the fact that a year or so ago I was privileged to
visit the Islands in the company of your then Grand Master Rollie W.
Miller, I have a personal knowledge of the activities of the Lodges there
and of conditions generally in that area.
Let me mention particularly one of the Lodges-Pearl Harbor Lodge
N o. 598. We of the American mainland, who pride ourselves justly that
we are doing much in carrying out '()ur Masonic principles as a direct
aid to the war effort, might nevertheless we'll take a leaf from the book
of this Lodge at Pearl Harbor. · Here is a Lodge whose Masonic enthusiasm and accomplishment have set a,record which could well be emulated
by every other Lodge in the world. This Lodge, virtually in the front-line
of the global war, has, notwithstanding, collected and remitted several
hundred dollars from its members and remitted the sum of $226-their
share- for our Masonic Relief Fund and would have sent still more w ere
it not that many of its members are in the nation' s armed forces at far
distant places. Here is a Lodge, too, which during the past year has
elected 46 applicants and has conferred 108 degrees on its own members,
as well as several courtesy degrees for Lodges on the mainland. Pearl

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Harbor meets at least once a week, sometimes twice, and its membership
is abiding loyally by all regulations and restrictions imposed by the military
authorities. These require that no meetings be held at night, but no request
for day-time meetings has been denied. The spirit of the members of Pearl
Harbor Lodge is expressed by its Secretary, Brother A. Townsend, in a letter dated August 1, 1942, in which he says: "They hold their hopes high,
secure in their faith in themselves and in the knowledge that 'truth is
eternal and unchanging,' and that they are fighting for that which they
believe to be right."
Because of the difficulties under which the Hawaiian Lodges are
operating, I have notified all the Lodges of other Grand Jurisdictions in
the United States that they should not request Hawaiian Lodges to confer
courtesy degrees, and the response to this request has been most
gratifying.
More is said about the work in Hawaii under the caption "Masonic
War Relief Fund" but I cannot close this discussiqn without a passing
tribute to the outstanding accomplishment of Alexander D. Potts, Grand
Standard Bearer of the Grand Lodge of California and Inspector for
Distr-ict 103, in maintaining the high morale of the Hawaiian . Lodges.
No one could have done more than Brother Potts in rendering assistance
where assistance was needed. Brother Charles Shepherd, Inspector for
District 102, which embraces other Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands, also
has established a most creditable record in every way and has worked in
complete harmony with all of the Hawaiian brethren and with Brother
Potts, who has been, in fact, my. personal representative in Hawaii. It is
my hope to make another visit soon to these Islands and to renew acquaintance with the brethren there.
Philippine Jurisdiction
Originally, and until 1910, the Masonic Lodges in the Philippine Islands
were under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California. In 1910,
because of the remoteness of the Islands from the American mainland,
it was c9nsidered desirable that the Philippines have their own jurisdiction,
and this was the condition when the Japanese took over the Islands and
all of the Lodges fell victims to the invader. Many of the brethren escaped •
to other countries, some to the United States, but all found themselves
without a Lodge where they might continue their Masonic activities and
pay their dues.
In this unforeseen development, I assumed emergency authority to
permit individual members of former Philippines Lodges to return to their
parent organization, the Grand Lodge of California, without affiliation, and
devised a plan whereby they could maintain themselves in good standing ·
in their own Grand Jurisdiction by paying dues through the office of our
Grand Secretary. In pursuance of this plan, the Grand Secretary was
authorized to issue necessary credentials to Philippines Lodge members
so that they might enjoy all the benefits afforded to regular paid-up
brethren under normal conditions. The money paid in, $2254.35, has been
set up as a special trust fund and will be turned over intact to the
Philippines Lodges when the invader has been ousted and the Stars and
Stripes again fly over the far-Pacific Islands.
At this time, and pending the inevitable victory, we of the Grand
Lodge of California well may pause momentarily to give thought to what
may be the present fate of many of our brethren so much closer to the
battle fronts. How many may already have made the supreme sacrifice
for the preservation of democracy! How many may be bearing the cruel

89

yoke of the oppressor! How many may be battling with all that they have
to the end that human freedom and decency again be established in the
world! We, _on the less menaced sector, cannot be indifferent to what
they .have given and are giving, to what they have suffered and are
suffering.
Members of Lodges Under the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands
for Whom Dues Have Been Accepted in Trust
MANILA No. 1
Joseph Arnold Roberts
Lawrence Benton
Michael D. Roberts
William Renick Black
Richard S. Roberts
David Leonard Branch
Arthur Robinson
John Leon Drew
James D. Rorabaugh
Jesse Harper Mae!
Ernest E . Senseney
T. Phaon Moyer
.
Thomas E. Shaw
Harry Ives Shoemaker
Russel Eshleman Shoff
John W. Smith
Emerson R. Stearns
A. K. Spielberger
Robert L. St. John
Warren Wallace Weston.
L. L. Tyndall
Thomas F. Wirth
George L. Van Slyke
J. Herbert Walls
CAVITE No. 2
Philip Ray Zimmerman
Malcolm Aljian
Irvin H . Bordihn
CORREGIDOR-SOUTJ-!ERN
Donald B. Briggs
CROSS No. 3
Virgil 0. Briggs
WaLer H. Bratten
Ralph Brown
Clarence Arthur Day
Jam es M. Campbell
Edwin E. Elser
Stamford G. Chapman
William D. Evans
Charles L. Crawford
Henry L. Fisher
William E. Defoor
Douglas C. Ford
Theron Monroe Duncan
Thomas L. Gage
Nile Kenneth Fitch
Herbert Heinrich
Paul B. Fitch
Verne E. Miller
Wilhelm L. Friedell
Robert F,. Olds
George H. Fuhrman
Walter Salomon
Cecil F. Gill
Lloyd L. Smith
James J. Gill
Karl H. Soune
Lee M. Gorman
Joseph Spataford
Martin L. Gundersen
Harry Rees Taylor
Wilbern Car:er Guthrie
William H. Taylor
Leonard W. Hogge
Thomas W. Wright
William E.' Hummel
Carl Franklin Johnson
BAGUMBAYAN No. 4
Claude E. Johnston
Oliver J. Cowles
Jacob F. Lawson
Leo Fischer
Simon Lipschitz
William Wetherill Love
!~LAND No. 5
William J. Lowell
Floyd W. Cox
Harvey Lloyd McKee
· Raymond Howard Cranmer
Frank L. Mci.emore
John A. Downey
William G. Peacock
James Jacob Firestone
Robert Lee Pearson Jr. "·
Seldon D. Fox
Ivan Ramon Pocklington
John J. Maykovich
Clyde M. Pugh
Raphael Meyerson
Robert Rodney Reynolds
Lawrence Michael Miller

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

90
Alfred W. Olsen
Frank E. Smith
Jasper E. Solt
Daniel P. Surber
Harvey P. Thomas
Ernest S. Williams
COSMOS No. 8
Charles P. Neuffer
John C. Ropp
Herman E. Ruething
Herald F. Stout

ST. JOHN'S No. 9·
Robert Lee Ely
Louis E . Gagnon
George Dudley Gibbs Jr.
B. J. Jinks
Robert P . McGlothlin
Edward J. .Oliver
!ram P. Short
R. E. Trapeur
ILOILO No. 11
Catalino Sian Melliza
PILAR No. 15
Bienvenido 0 . Villasis
Edward John Zajac
BAGONG-BUHAY No. 17
Faustino Gregorio
Rupert Edward Hand
SILANGANAN No. 19
Walter H. Wells
DAPIT AN No. 21
Agustin J. Gustilo
BATONG-BUHAY No. 27
Pastor G. Malabanan
Lorenzo Ohero
Hermogenes C. Oreta
ZAP OTE No. 29
Jose Calonsod
Saturnino Farrales
Estanislao Gabarda
Lorenzo Martinez
Pedro Regala
Pablo Vidal
IBARRA No. 31
Pedro Adona
H oward W. Davis Jr.
Placido Gadingan
Charles W. Kolb Jr.
David J. Nevens

Bonifacio Sanchez
Joe T. Valdez

Narciso P. Valencia
Norberto C. Villanueva

LINCOLN No. 34
Albert Bredehoft
Arthur Davidson
Sam Freeman
Andrew Mulina
Farrell N. C. Overall ·
Albert L. Steinmiller

ANGALO No. 63
Eligio Alig<i

MINERVA No. 41
Albert E, Tatton

PRIMERA LUZ FILIPINA No. 69
R.aymundo Paredes

CHARLESTON ~o. 44
Robert P. Carls
Bruce K. Defiebre
George Carl Hennicker
Paul C. Hohl
James R. Lane
Marlow C. Madson
Patrick McKenna
Carl F. Merz
A. R. Myers
J. H. Riddle

LAOAG No. 71
· Demetria Gamponia
Cayetano Ligot
Canuto T. Tacderan
Juan A. Valentin

MALOLOS No. 46
Albino C. Martin

MUOG No. 89
H erbert 0. Clary
Sam Edward Franks
Carl H . Goodrick
Lamar L. Mitchell
Herbert G. Roth
Louis Siedband

MAKABUGWAS No. 47 .
Julian ' p. Oriel
MOUNT MAINAM No. 49
Santiago Bumanglag
Francisco M. Ramirez
PINTONG BATO No. 51
Eulalia Evangelista
James Elbert Halstead
Joseph E. Stewart

BAGUIO No. 67
R. G. Brown
Clyde L. Hoover
James E . Moore

MOUNT LEBANON No. 80
Chester W. Silliman
HIGH TWELVE No. 82
Thomas H. Gaither

SERVICE No. 95
Clay Bird
Hugh Boatright
Henry W. Brooke
Clair N. Burke
William Wright Constable

MAKAWIWILI No. 55
Robert Clauson
COMMO NWEALTH No. 57
Daniel Baduria
Bruno P. Baguio
Jose A. Barcas
Manuel P. Bernardo
Jose Maria Cachuela
Juan G. Cortes
Primitive Dalman
Dalmacio Matondo
Bernardino Medina
Anastacio Molina
Roman Rosales .
Pablo M. Tan
Pedro Valderrama

91

John W . Douglas
Richard W. Evans
Frank W. Grabowski
Harold J. Halterman
Emerson L. Haynes
Roy C. Hopkins
Sl).erman W . Hunter
L. H. Jones
Samuel Lee Jones
Walter E. Kelly
John Rea Lambert
John F. Lapinsky
Albert L. Lehman
Oscar W. Levy
A. M. ' Lott
Frank H. ·}.!abe
Robert Calvin McCutcheon
Donald Keith McGinnis
James E. McLendon
Frank A. Mitzner
Frank Olender
George W. Ortmyer
C. L: Pollard
Edwin Poppleston
Lowell 0. Precourt
John O .. Roberts
Lewis Robinson
John E. S tewart
Michael Swata
Leland D. Tipton
A. M. Tripp
Francis F. Waldon
LEON ARD WOOD No. 105
Duncan T. Boisseau
Andrew J. DeVaughn
Henry John Dick Meyer
AMITY No. 106 (CHINA)
William Bacon Pettus

Service to Fighting Men
The question of what service should be rendered by the Grand L odge,
by constituent Lodges and by representatives thereof, to Masons in the
armed forces, is without question the most difficult one which confronts us.
I

.

At the last Communication of Grand Lodge, the recommendations of
the then Grand Master were approved and we have been proceeding along
the lines of that program during the current year. When those recommendations were made we were not at war, but the approach to the
problem was so sound that there has been no need to change from the
program during the year.
The Masonic Service Association has been organized and many Grand
Jurisdictions are contributing to its support and pursuing its program
and policy. This association has mapped out an elaborate and extensive
program of War Service. An invitation to the Grand Lodge of California
to join the association was declined because it · was our conviction that

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the Grand Lodge of California could give an adequate service through its
own efforts and by the use of its facilities, which wo~ld m?re fully acc~rd
with our policy, intentions and purposes in co?n~cbon. with. War .Reh~f.
We welcome all that the Masonic Service Assoc1at10n will do m Cahforma,
and throughout the world, for the benefit of our service conne.cted brethren,
but the Grand Lodge of California, through its War Rehef Fu.nd and
otherwise will continue its own generous and fraternal War Service program, which has been fully outlined elsewhere in this report.
Conference of Grand Masters
In company with Brother Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand . Secretary.' I
attended the annual conference of Grand Masters of Masons m the Umted
States at Washington, D. C., in February and was present at all ~f the
sessions. As was natural in existing world conditions, much of the discussion centered on the menace of the aggressor nations to human fr~edom
and to Freemasonry. The titles of some of the topies discussed gt~~ an
idea of the range of these deliberations. They include~: "Do Naz1-1sm,
Fascism and Communism Present a Danger That American Freemasonry
Should Meet?" "Freemasonry and the New World Order," and "Welfare
Work of the Masonic Service Association with the Armed Forces of the
United States."
Presentation of the subject matter of these discussions was made in a
most thorough and informative manner by t~e se".eral Gr~nd 1'.fasters
assigned to present them, and the informal d1scuss1ons. which foll~wed
were of great interest. The time consumed in the long tnp. to the nat10nal
capital to attend this annual conference was .well spent m the .valuable
returns derived from it through exchange of views and personal contacts.
your Grand Master was honored by being assigned the first discussion
on the agenda, namely, "What Can Be Don~ Legitimat~ly to !~ter.est
Non-Masons in the Fraternity? Has the Masomc Rule Agamst Sohc1tat10n
Been Construed Too Strictly?" Dividing the question into its two parts,
the answer I gave to the first is "Nothing"; to the second, "No." "Free
will," I contended, "has always been a recognized p~erogati,ve of fre~ men;
freedom to choose to select and to act in accord with ones o~n .will .an~
desire has even been the imprimatur in the human book of mens liberties.
I will not burden you here with further quotations from my address
at the conference, except to give one paragraph in which I spo~~ ?f the
"development of cliques and factions in the Lodge through sohc1ti.ng of
friends, of special groups, and in some case~ _of suppo;ters of on: side or
the other." The rejection of a strongly sohc1ted apphca?t, I po1?-ted o.ut
"would cause reverberations in a Lodge, in a commumty and m social
circles all of which would soon disrupt the Lodge and ruin its usefulness."
This ;ide of the matter is so full of likely evil that, I believe, it condemns
the whole suggestion of relaxing our Masonic rule against solicitation.
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
The 32nd Annual Convention of the George . Washington Masonic
National Memorial Association, held in the auditorium of the Memorial
at Alexandria, Virginia, on February 23, 1942, also was attended by your
Grand Master and by your Grand Secretary. Continuous good progr~ss
was noted not only with respect to the building itself but also in t?e .affairs
of the association. However, the work still is not complete, with much
yet to be done on the great library, the art gallery and the museum. Work

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

93

has been started on the replica room which is to house the George Washington relics and also on the blue Lodge room, which is to be used for
Lodge purposes, .and the 'money is on hand . to complete them. .
As at the Conference of Grand Masters at Washington, California
was honored by having an invited speaker on the program of the convention at the Memorial Association. Your Grand Secretary, Brother
Lloyd E. Wilson, who is a director of the association, was called upon by
the president of the association, Grand Master Elmer R. Arn, of Ohio, to
respond to the address of welcome by the Grand Master of Virginia,
Robert ·S. Barrett. Noting the good work already done on the Memorial,
Brother Wilson pictured the magnificent undertaking as "conceived before
a great war, planned during one, started on its way following one and
which may, I hope, be completed during one."
A statement of the Treasurer showed that California Masons, up to
1942, have contributed to the Memorial a total of $171,467.30, an amount
exceeded in only seven other states.
Inspectors
During the Masonic year just past, I have appointed the following
new Inspectors:
Miles J. McClelland-District No. 21.
Leighton D. Armstrong-District No. 22.
Bert T. Baker-District No. 48-B.
Nels H. Johnson-District No. 53.
Henry C. Mack-District No. 66.
Theodore H. Rowcliffe-District No. 67.
Carl Kirkeby-District No. 68 (subsequently resigned).
William Sharp-District No. 68.
G. Ellsworth Meyer-District No. 85.
Robert K. McGuire-District No. 88.
Frank M. Wright-District No. 93.
The Grand Master appreciates more than anyone else that the efficient
functioning of Masonry in this Grand Jurisdiction depends upon our
Inspectors. Through their Officers Association they· make it possible for
each officer to qualify to govern the Lodge over which he may be called
to preside. In addition to that they are required not only to perform the
services required by the Grand Lecturer but also to execute important
commissions as a direct representative of the Grand Master.
This year has been an extremely active one. Co~ditions have required
me to make numerous and heavy demands upon them. They have responded promptly, with the most capable cooperation. The office of
Inspector must continue to grow in' importance as Grand Lodge continues
its expanding program. We cannot overestimate .the services performed
by an efficient Inspector. To each of them I express my sincere appreciation for his unselfish services.
Committee on Masonic Information
As I have traveled over the state I have been gratified to find that
the Lodges were receiving the material furnished by the Committee on
Masonic Information and using it with interest and profit in Lodge meetings and in giving information on Masonic subjects to the applicants for
the degrees during the time they were advancing. I congratulate this
committee on the success of its work and recommend its continuance.

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic Club Houses
The usefulness of the Masonic Club House at the University of California in Berkeley and Los Angeles continues to increase. Each is governed by a Board of Directors resident in the respective cities. Each Board
will report separately to Grand Lodge on the accomplishments of the year.
I think yoti will agree that these club houses are performing a service
well justifying their existence.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

95

0

?ringing sure returns to our organization, h ave given us a 'direct interest
m our government, not only with respect to tangible returns but also in
the matter of what may be' termed "intangibles" but which nevertheless
haye a very l"eal value.

It was my intention when I assumed the post of Grand Master to
give to the Masonic Homes and the work · of the Endowment Committee
considerable personal attention. Unfortunately, other matters of serious
importance intervened but, through reports to me by the very efficient
Superintendents and such personal contact as I have been able to maintain, I can state with assurance that the good progress of former years
has been continued during the past twelve months.

It has been the consistent policy of the Trustees to use in its expenditures only the revenues from its investments. These investments it is
~ratifying to not~, have brought to our fraternity returns which in' these
times are excepttonally good figures. Brother Filmer cannot be commen?ed to? highly for the unremitting effort, watchfulness and great
ca.ut.1on which h~ve marked . his handling of these and other matters pertammg to the offtce of Grand Tr.easurer. A complete report of the Endowment. Board for the past year wil! be submitted to you, which Board h as
functioned under the able leadership of Past Grand Master William Rhodes
H~rvey as chairman this year. I . commend to you the annual report of
said E?dowment Board
its entirety as the record of said Board this year
under its competent chairman could not be excelled. It is worthy of your
support and approval.

It is interesting to note in this regard that, during the present national
emergency, our Masonic Home at Covina is returning handsome ·d ividends
in patriotism. Many of the lads who entered the Home at a tender age
are now serving the Flag on land, sea and in the air in far-distant places.
At my request, Brother John M. Downen, Superintendent of the Covina
Home, has sent to me a few notes about some of the boys whose early
years were spent there and who now are in the .foreign military service
of their country.
·The Masonic Homes

An unprecedented ~umber of requests for the conferring of degrees
by courtesy to other Grand Jurisdictions have been transmitted through
the Grand Master or Grand Secretary. We have examined each case separately and many of . our Lodges in California have accepted the performance of such Mason.1c ~o~rtesy. I have, however, refused all such requests
from all. Grand J un~d1cttons fRr degrees to be conferred by other Gr.and
Lod~e.s m the Terr~tory of Hawaii since July 10, 1942, l:!ecause of the
cond1ttons under which those Lodges are working.

Masonic Home at Covina Builds Men

A splendid work also is being done at our Decoto Home and I desire
to commend highly the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California,
whose annual report covering operations at Decoto, where elderly guests
are received, and at Covina, where hoys and girls are given care and
training, will be made available to you. At Decoto, under the strain of
war conditions, the population of the Home is increasing steadily and this
increase. is likely to be continuous for some time. More money wil! be
needed to maintain the Home's efficiency. It must. never be said that
either the old or the young suffer through indifference on the part of our
fraternity.
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
Under the caption "Masonic Home at Covina Builds Men," I mentioned the 'fact and called attention to the many · former boys-youthful
beneficiaries of our charitable program-who have joined the nation's
armed forces and are now serving with credit and distinction. The work
of the Home at Decoto also has been noted under a separate head.
I now wish to discuss briefly the matter of the Endowment Fund
for the two Homes, a subject in which I am deeply interested because,
as you know, I have been a ~ember of the Endowment Board for many
years and during 1941 was privileged to serve as its chairman. In that
capacity, as well as others, I have had opportunity to observe the work
of our Grand Treasurer and beloved Past Grand Master, Brother William
P. Filmer, who has shown great sagacity in the · investment of these arid
all other Grand Lodge funds. "It is to be noted in this connection that
during ·the many years of his tenure of office as Grand Treasurer, not
a cent has been lost to the fraternity through any investment. Many of
these investments have been in government securities which, besides

!n

Courtesy Degrees

Jurisdiction and Inter-Jurisdictional Visitations
During the past year it has been my privilege to visit the Grand
Lodges in the States oLAr.i;i:ona, Oregon and Washington,. and in each of
them I found the. Grand Masters and other officers deeply interested in
what the Grand Lodge of California is doing for its m embers in the armed
services. These visits gave to me opportunity, also, to learn what other
Grand Lodges are doing along. similar lines. I believe that these interjurisdictional visitations should be encouraged and that they should be
held at more frequent intery~ls than they have been in the past.
A brief survey of my visitations. within our ow n jurisdiction shows
the following during. 1942 :
Friday, January 16-Santa Ana, Districts 100, 101.
Saturday, January 17-Southern California Past Masters Association, Los
Angeles.
T~esday, January 20---Sunset Lodge, Los Angeles.
Friday, January 23-:San Diego, Districts 109, 110, 111, 112.
Saturday, January 24-El Centro, District 108.
T~esday, January 27-Jordan Lodge, Los Angeles.
Fnday, January 30---Riv_erside., Districts 104, 105, 106, 107.
Sunday, February l·-Los Angeles Board of Relief and Employment
Breakfast.
Friday, February .6--Pomona, 92nd District.
Sa~urday, February 7-Ventura, 70th and 71st Districts.
Friday, Febrqary 13-Needles, District 104A.
Sunday, March IS-Sacramento Masonic Board of Relief and Employment Breakfast.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

96

h 17-Past Masters Night, Sunset Lodge.
Tu.esday, Marc
T 1
64th District Olive Branch Host Lodge.
Friday, March 20- u are,
66 h r)· t . t
Saturday, March 21~Bakekr~fieldCl bt Ho~s:1cMasonic Club, University of
Saturday, March 28:-Ber. e ey
u
. ,
California, meeting with boys and xirl;· 9 Tucson Grand Lodge of
Wednesday, April 8, and Thursday, pn ,
.
Arizona, Masonic Temple, Tucson'. B
d f Relief and Employment
Sunday, April 12-Long Beach, Masonic oar o
Breakfast.
· · 1 v· 't
A ·1 14-Glendale District 86, Off1c1a
is1 .
Tuesdayd, P~ ·1 15-Whittier District 96, Gardens Lod~e.
Wednes ay, pri
. '.
62 63 Official Visit.
Friday, April 17-Fresno, Districts 61 ' '. ' U c L A. Masonic Club
Saturday, April lS-U. C. L. A., Reception, . . .
House.
1 Ct Em loyees' Masonic Club.
Friday, April ~4-Los "1,ng~ es, Al ~ii 2~Catalina Island Lodge No. 524.
Saturday, April 25, anf un /Ynisfrict 88, Official Visit.
.
Tuesday, May 5-Ing ew~o ' D' t · t 94 Official Visit.
W d
d
May 6--Covma, 1s ric
,
.
~ nes ay,
S
Francisco, Districts 40-48C inclusive. . .
Fnday, May S- anC
95th and 96th Masonic Districts, Anchor
Monday, May 11- ompton,
Lodge.
Off' · 1 v· 't
M
12 Gardena District 99,
1c1a
1s1 .
Tuesdayd a~ l3-Pasadena, District 90, Official Visit.
Hollenbeck
Wedneds ay,M ay14-Los Angeles Districts 83, 84 and 76,
Thurs ay,
ay
'
.

L~dgeMay 16--San Rafael, Marin County Lodges' Districts.
~~~~aa;',' May lS-Los A?geles, Districts 78, 81, 82, 85 and 77 '. Westlake .

S

Lodge.
. .
73 75 79 80 116 and 117,
Los Angeles Districts
,
•
• •
Tues d ay, M ay 19. .
. . '
Sunset Lodge, Off1c1al V!Slt.
. .
Ma 20-Santa Monica, 87th D1stnct.
. .
Wednes d ay,
Y
11 Santa Clara County Districts.
Friday, May 22-Sa~.J~se, ad 11 Contra Costa County Districts.
Saturday, May 23-0 k1cl mdonM aters and Wardens Spring Breakfast.
Sunday, May 24- a an • as
. .
Monday May 25-Monrovia, 93rd D1stnct.. .
, M
26--South Pasadena 9lst District.
.Tuesday, a~
27-Long Beach.' District 97, Official Visit.
Wedn~sdayjunea~Los Angeles, Golden State Lodge No. 358.
~:J~e:X~y June 10-Portland, Gr~nd LodgfeWof oh~egotn.
'
T
Grand Lodge o
as mg on.
·Tuesday, June 16- acorn~, Celebration Breakfast, Anchor Lodge.
Sunday, June 21-St. J~hn s T
1 N , 415 Westgate Masonic Temple.
Wednesday, June 24-Silverd ;.,_owe 1 ~~efst~ak Feed, 88th Masonic DisFriday, June 26--lnglewoo , nnua
trict.
.
Monday, July 6--Dunsmuir, _Di~trict 5.
Tuesday, July 7-Alturas, District?· .
Wednesday, July 8-West~ood, .D1s.trict, 9.
Thursday, July 9-Placervil~e, D1~tri~t 24.
F 'd
J ly 10-Grass Valley, l)1stnct 13. :
s~~u~~~y.uJ ulJ 11-Sacramento, Districts 21 and 22.
.
J 1 l2 Auburn Annual Breakfast.
f Al
d
S un d ady, uJy
1 -25 Qakl~nd Madison Street Temple, all o
ame a
Satur ay, u Y - ·
. •
County Lodges' Dist~1cts. . .
Monday, August 3-Wilhts, D1~tri~t 3.
1·••
Tuesday, August 4-Eureka, District 1: .
.Wednesday, August 5-Fort Bragg, District 2.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

97

Thursday, August 6-Lakeport, District 18.
Friday, August 7-Santa Rosa, District 50.
Saturday, August 8-Vallejo, District 19.
Wednesday, September 9-Los Angeles, Valle d' France 329, District 116.
Friday, September 11-Monrovia, Annual Beefsteak Dinner.
Monday, September 14-Los Angeles, Wilshire Lodge No. 445.
Sunday, September 20-Fresno, Board of Relief and Employment Breakfast.
Constitution Month Observance Committee
Under the chairmanship of Past Grand Master Robert B. Gaylord,
the Constitution Month Observance Committee of the Grand Lodge began
to function in January, 1940, and has continued through September of this
year 1942. Because of war conditions that have arisen since formation of
this. committee, it became desirable that its activities be not limited to
Constitution Month Observance, but that its scope be broadened to include
as well the direction of our Masonic Defense Movement. In line with this
need, I issued to the craft, on February 10, 1942, the following proclamation:

PROCLAMATION
National Defense Activities of Lodges
To Masters and Brethren of the Several Lodges of This Jurisdiction:
For the past two years the Lodges of this jurisdiction have observed
Constitution Month in September. However, the critical condition in
national and world affairs is such that if our Lodges are to play a proper
part in efforts to maintain democratic institutions and national and personal liberty in the United States and throughout the world, we cannot
delay action.
I am sure that all Masons in this jurisdiction are not only vitally
interested but are personally concerned in promoting such current activities
as the purchase of defense bonds and war savings stamps, the contribution
of funds to the Red Cross, intelligent understanding of Civilian Defense,
Army and Navy enlistments, and similar war work.· Even mor e important
is the maintenance of public morale, both present and future. The time
will come when the war is over, and it is vitally important that we shall
be prepared to meet . that situation and to preserve for all time personal
liberty and American institutions.
It is therefore ordered:
1. That a perm.a nent committee for. the duration of the war be immediately appointed in each Lodge to present from time to time the part
which should be played by its membership in promoting these war efforts
and such other issues as may arise in the future.
2.. That, as promptly as possible, a meeting be held in each Lpdge
for the presentation of the problems which are before us. T his should be
a closed meeting, and if possible, the presentations should be made not
later than the stated meeting for March. The importance of the subject
justifies the issuance. of a special bulletin to obtain a maxirl).um attendance.
Under our constitution, no Lodge may donate any part of its funds,
however, worthy the cause may be. O n the other hand, I emphasize the.
fact that Lodge fun.ds, whether life members.hip or . otherwise, m,ay be
inve.s~ed in defense bonds and war savings stamps.
.
.
The direct soli.c itation. of funds at a· Lodge meeting is not permissible

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

for any of these objects. However, the Lodge should advocate, and the
committee should promote, individual interest and activity on the part of
the mc:mbership in all war defense measures.
·
The conduct of this Masonic defense movement has been referred by
me to the Constitution Month Observance Committee of the Grand Lodge.
A letter from that committee .furnishing detailed information and instructions will accompany this proclamation.
It is ordered that this proclamation be read at the earliest opportunity,
and not later than the next stated meeting in each Lodge of this jurisdiction . .
Dated: February 10, 1942.
Fraternally and sincerely,
FRANK

M. SMITH, Grand Master.

Attest: Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary. .
Many important functions have been directed by this committee,
among them being the encouraging of Lodges and individual brethren to
buy and buy more and more bonds of this our country. Our records and
the work of this committee now disclose that 438 Lodges have purchased
· and now hold $1,173,436.45 in Defense Bonds. A splendid record worthy
of note and much credit to the committee and its chairman.
Merely to attempt to summarize the committee's work and its splendid
accomplishments would require many pages. After Pearl Harbor I informed your Grand Lecturer that, in order to make it possible for Lodges
to meet as their by-laws designate, and to afford uninterrupted facilities
for the conferring of degrees on applicants, they should not only abide by,
but assist in carrying out, the terms of all proclamations of the Commanding General of the Western Defense Area, and that their temples should
make provision thoroughly to black out their properties whenever a blackout order is given. This, reports show, the temples have done, and it has
been one of the functions of the expanded Constitution Month Observance
Committee to see that compliance was complete.
I likewise recommended that the Masters of the several constituent
Lodges in California at all times comply with civilian defense dim-outs
and with all proclamations concerning lights for illumination, and that this
compliance be made certain by each Master reporting to the Inspector of
his district that each temple building or meeting place of each and every
Lodge has so arranged its lighting facilities as to conform to all requirements prescribed by the authorities, whether civilian or military. General
supervision of these matters has been another function of the Constitution
Month Observance Committee.
Public Schools
Our Masonic organization should continue its close interest in the
public schools of California· along the same general lines as in the past.
Every boy and every girl in every community is entitled to the advantages
of a free education, not merely for their individual benefit but for the
welfare of the state as well. More emphasis, perhaps, especially in these
times, should be placed on the fundamentals of learning, so that the
knowledge gained can be susceptible of practical application. Masonry
needs the schools, and the schools need Masonry. Not only should our
interest in the public school system be kept alive, but our interest as well
in other forms of public life and .action. 9ur elective officials, municipal,

99

sta~e, judicial, and other are all a
which we live and we .;h Id . pa~t of the governmental forms under
the right kind of ~en o~ see to .1t, so far as lies in our power that
should keep ourselves in~~ w;men are elected to public office an'd we
and administer their office/me as to the manner in which they conduct

The Grand Secretary
.
·
.
I cannot refrain from devotin
deserved tribute to the conscientioug a spe~1al paragraph to paying a
done by our Grand Secretary B th s, effective and often arduous work
added burdens of the office ' .. ro /r Lloyd E. Wilson. Because of the
the Grand Lodge to aid our b~~ts~~g ~om the war and the steps taken by
tary ?as been obliged to put in ~:nm ~he armed forc~s, the Grand Secred~y~ m the discharge of the duties i~ ours of the ?1ght, as well as the
w1lhngly has assumed. In add'f
posed ~p.o~ him and which he so
Brother Wilson has made
J ion to .these activ1t1es for the Grand Lodge
national war effort has man~ public appearances in the interest of th~
Committee,· and ha~ been s~~;:m as ~ ~ember . of the Civilian Defense
County of San Francisco during athn o t e Grand Jury of the City and
e past year.
Grand Secretary's Staff
.
.
,
I desire to call attention to the
the Grand Secretary's office in order necess~t~ of increasing the staff in
the necessary work for such a lar
~o .eff~c1~ntly and promptly handle
take this opportunity to commend th ge Junsd1~t10n as ours, and desire to
effort to assist in 'this emergenc
.em for. their loyalty and their unceasing
Grand Secretary . H enry D 01~-hm parhcul~r t~e work of the Assistant
·11·
'
'
1p · ant
WI mg and cooperative and ha
. ! who ·1s. s 0 th oroughiY comp etent
mere duty involved he has th ~ ~n mterest m his position beyond th~
and thoroughly knows his wo:k'.nh er~sts ~f the fraternity really at heart
in his office in order that our War es as. een spending many long hours
handled.
ervice programs may be successfully
I recommend the matter of th .
t?erefo.r during this' war emergenc bee m.creased staff and the necessity
s1deratJon, in order that there ma Yb
g1:ven you~ earnest and early ~onand Masons.
Y e no mterrupt1on of our work as men
.
San Francisco Office
During the past year, and without f
.
~e respon.sibility for ordering needed add'~~ma~ aut~onzation, I assumed
~dge office at San Francisco This
J ~~na eqmpment for our Grand
fi~1ng cabinets, a desk, typewriters a ~dd1tiona! equipment consisted of
slightly l~ss than $1000. Incidentall ~h other J~ems at a total cost of
a short t~me before the governmeni~1 e. t:>:pewnt.ers were obtained only
rad~ t?e1r later acquisition impossible p~o~1tyll ruling, which would have
urnish.mgs and equipment were bou
c ua Y, not as much addition~!
fr~ternity now has an offic~ in San Frg t .as were ~eeded, but at least the
might also add that your attentio
danc1sco that is befitting its dignity I
to the present.appearance of the l~b::r yo~r P.erso~al inspection is directed
ture, none of which matches and h with its miscellaneous lot of furnifor committee meetings of this Gr:n~cLa; a matter of fact is inadequate
I k
o ge.
as that my action, as outlined be .
'
given formal approval.

h

.Yh

The Grand Lecturer
A word of special ack
I d
now e gment should be said for the

notable

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

100

101

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

H Warlow whose accomplishment
work of the Grand Lecturer. C~ester
. 1 duri~ war-time, and in conin keeping the Lodges funcbo~ing smooth y has b!en outstanding. Referducting the ritualistic work uninterruptedl!, ade in my discussion of the
ence to this work of tJ;e ~ran~ L~~tu~~s~:v1:nce Committee. I commend
activities of the Constitution
on
d f 11 the brethren, and I thank
Brother Warlow to the grateful regar o a
.
him personally for his faithful discharge of duty.
Interim Appointments
embers have been called into the
Because so many of ou~ younger m
have found it desirable, even
military services ~f the U mted o~;a~~~e:"~rethren in positions of act}ve
necessary, to retain man! ~f
t that these brethren are carrying
responsibility. I am gr~t1.fie to repor th t was to be expected of them,
on . in the loyal and eff1c1ent manner d"~ for their continued work in this
and they are entitled to the greatest ere t
emergency.
There have been no interim appointments during the year.
Special Communications
.
d .
the year for many special comThere has not been occasion ~rn~g Uy because of the fact that only
munications of the Grand L~dg~z p~i~c~:munication. Following is a comone charter was granted at t e n
.
· d.
pilation of such communications as have been issue .
h
1941 Grand Lodge was convened for t e
On Saturday> N_ovember 8,
~ No 684 at Trona. Being . unable to
purpose of consbtutmg TronWa ·L1rodg B Ogden Past Grand Master, to act
·attend, I requested Brother
1 tam ·
'
as Grand Master.
.
42 G
d Lodge was convened at San Diego
On Saturday, April. 25,_ 19 , ra:sonic Temple at that place. At my
for the purpose of ded1catingMthe ~
Senior Grand Warden, acted as
request, Brother Claude H.
orr1son,
Grand Master.
Pettus Bible Award
.
. . . B Pettus Past Master of International
When Worshipful Wilham . h G, nd Lodge of California a copy
Lodge,_ Peipi~g, China! p~es.en~~d t~h\n~se rfanguage, with the request t~at
of a Bible printed entire y in h ~ d
that has rendered the best service
it be awar~ed ehacJ; Y,~a~ tod.~ enoto d~~ne his interpretation of "c.h~rity."
to "Masomc c ar1ty,
e . 1
d · reaching my dec1s1on as
."Charity" is a wor_d that ~ncludes e~t~~l~d ~~ t~~ honor, I am reading into
to which Lodge this ~ear ~s i_n~st f Freemasonry-brotherly love, charity
'the word a z~al for ~ e princ1p ~~i~ns of adversity can quench: Under the
and mutual a1d-:-:-whic~ n~ ~o~~ d s" I have told of the Masonic enthuheading "Hawa11an. Is an s
o pge 1 Harbor Lodge No. 598, which, virsiasm and accomphsh.ment~· o~ e~r bal war has collected and remitted
0
tually in the front hne 0 · t e ~
·
R~lief Fund while at the same
several hu~dred d?llars for ou~ ·~~on~c a let-up. I ;elect this Lodge to
lime carrying on its own wor w.1 ou
have the Pettus Bible for the coming year.
Decisions
law have been numerous.
.
f
"tt
•
Requests for interpretattodn ? . our ~~~he~ am reporting I have been
With the exception of tho~e ec1S1ons w
'

able to answer those requests by a citation to sections of Ross' Digest.
Moreover, the Digest as compiled by Past Grand Master John Stewart
Ross, which is a codification of our laws, is a standard work on the subject,
and if referred 'to will answer any question likely to arise in the mind of
any Masonic official. I suggest to all of our officers that they familiarize
themselves with this work, as doing so will assist in saving the time of
the Grand Master. Five decisions, however, I found necessary to render.
I specifically report the following decisions :
1. I have held that Grand Lodge does not give countenance to and
has no sympathy with a Lodge or its Hall Association raising money to
pay indebtedness on its hall, or for any Masonic purpose by public card
parties or entertainments.
2. In case of a permanent remonl from the jurisdiction of his Lodge,
precluding the performance of the duties of his office by a Master or a.
Warden, the office becomes vacant and the Grand Master may grant a
dispensation for holding an election to fill such vacancy or vacancies
(Ordinances, Sections 35, 34 (2d) ' 181). In case the offices of Master and
both. Wardens become vacant, I have directed th.e Inspector of the district
in my place and stead, to convene the Lodge and preside therein so that
the Lodge might apply for dispensation for an election to fill such vacancy
and after obtaining such dispensation to again convene the Lodge for .
said election. (Sections 34-6th, 117.)
3. I have held that for a member to have been a member in good
standing in this jurisdiction for forty years under Ordinances, Sections 99
and 255, he must have had an unbroken record for forty years in good
standing, or periods in which he was in good standing must add up to
forty years. In computing the forty years, time that he was not in good
standing cannot be counted.
4. I was asked if the English ritualistic degree team may exemplify
the English first degr.ee in a Chapter of Royal Arch Masons. L ruled that
it should not.
This Grand Lodge recognizes no man as a Mason unless he has been
regularly made one in some just Lodge of Masons, acting under charter
or dispensation from some Grand Lodge having proper authority to grant
such charter or dispensation. If the members of this English team prove
themselves eligible to visit our Lodges, they may be admitted and invited
to there exemplify their English first degree.
This Grand Lodge does not recognize any degree except those . of
Entered Apprentice, Fellow Craft and Master Mason, nor does it recognize anyone of Masonry not authorized to confer these degrees.
The divulging, use, exemplification or repetition of the ritual, or any
part of it, of the three degrees of Masonry .in a Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons by a Mason rec::ognized by this Grand Lodge is reprehensible and
should subject such Mason responsible therefor or participating therein to
. Masonic discipline.
5. During the year questions arose as to whether an applicant for the
degrees was plii.ysically sufficient to receive the degrees of Masonry. In
each case I ha~e asked the Master inquiring whether or not the applicant
with the defect mentioned could conform substantially or at all to what the
several degrees respectively require of him. In other words, can the applicant in any way or at all meet the requirements as now taught by the
Ritual Committee. In every instance the answer was that he could not.'
I hope I have found the formula to determine these petty questions, the
answer to which every Master knows if he is qualified to be a Master.

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Recommendations

ture of freedom every:vhere. Though the shadows of war hang dark over
the world and our nation, and we as citizens and Masons face many sacrifices, w~ can renew our faith and our courage by a clear perception of the
everlastmg truth of Byron's lines:

Jt is my reco.m mendation that ito Lodge in the jurisdiction be given
permission to erect, remodel or repair any temple or other building unless
the project be satisfactorily financed. Ill this connection I favor legislation
by the Grand Lodge that will enlarge the membership of our Building
Committee and give it more power and authority over all such operations.
-During the year l found it advisable to reject all requests for new construction work, as the financial plans submitted for each seemed unsound,
e"s pecially in war-time when we should devote all our efforts to essential
undertakings. I urge strongly that our Lodges make full use of present
facilities, rather than develop new ones, for the duration of the war.
I cannot refrain from urging, also, that we display more warmth,
courtesy and brotherly cordiality toward visiting brethren from other jurisdictions. Let us be unreserved in extending to them the hearty handclasp
of our fraternity and making them feel at all times that they a_re completely at home among us. With this observation I urge that each member
of each examining committee make an effort to satisfy himself that a man
is a Mason rather than to find out how much ritual he actually knows,
and also that at least one of the committee make himself the host for the
visitor for the evening, to be sure that he is not left to wander aimlessly
and alone. Be men, be Masons. Meet and act as such.
Conclusion
With the closing of this communication, as my official duties as your
Grand Master terminate, may I say that I am profoundly grateful for the
high honor that was conferred upon me and that I appreciate deeply the
uniform courtesy and hospitality r eceived by me at the hands of the brethr.en. I would like to bespeak for my worthy successor an equal measure
of consideration and fraternal regard. Whatever of credit, if any, is due
fo my administration is to be shared by all the Grand Lodge officers and
all the brethren of this jurisdiction.
·
I commenced my year's work with the very best intentions-better,
perhaps, than I was able to at all times carry out-for it had been my.
iittention to visit virtually all of the districts of the state. This I found
impossible to do, having regard for my judicial duties and the many pressing matters before the Grand Lodge arising out of the war effort. Nevertheless, I was able to visit a great majority of the districts .and I have
endeavored to meet as many groups of our brethren as was possible.
Several of the Lodges during the year have requested permission to
reduce the fees for degrees. I question the wisdom of this practice, as I
believe the trend for reduction of fees is in the wrong direction. Already
many of the brethren feel that not sufficient care is exercised at times in
the admission of applicants, and a r eduction of fees would accentuate that
situation. There is that in Masonry which attracts men and we should
see to it that our ranks remain always recognizable as composed of men
~f .highest character and honor.
· ln and during these times' I am sure that all of us are deeply impressed
with the responsibilities resting upon us. May the legislatioi:i to be enacted
at ·this session be inspired by wisdom, and our deliberations be conducted
in harmony and brotherly understanding, so that our jurisdiction will con~inue its course of justice and good fortune. Bearing ever in mind that our
tree of Liberty is as deep-roo ted as are the giant Redwoods of our state,
~nd that the principles of our Republic and of .Freemasonry are no less
firml;y grounded, may we direct our energies toward buttressing the struc-

103

"Freedom's battle once begun,
Bequeath'd from bleeding sire to son,
Though baffled oft, is ever won."
May it be won for all mankind and for all the ages.
FRANK M. S MITH, Grand Master.

The Deputy Grand Master referred the Grand Master's message to the following Committee on Segregation:· John R. Moore,
George Delavan, Jr., and Mark Edson.
At 12 :10 p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00 p. m.

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

105

'GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

matically follows that the records in the office of the Grand S
are anywhere from twelve to fifteen months behind.
ecretary

3Jn ~ranb JLobge
AFTERNOON SESSIO.N ·
Tuesday, October 13, 1942.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :00 o'clock p. m ., the Grand
Master presiding.
The Grand C~aplain having been called out of the city, the
Most Worshipful Grand Master called upon Worshipful Reynold
E. Blight to invoke the blessing of God.
REPORT OF GRAND SECRET ARY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A . M. of California:
The report of the Grand Secretary for the Masonic year just closed

is presented herewith.
The activity and the work of the office has been multiplied many
times over preceding years by the programs which the Grand Master has
inaugurated to meet war conditions. The office staff ·has done an excellent
job and the cooperation of the Grand Master in securing vital equipment
has made possible the accomplishment of a vast amount of work.
In the interest of greater understanding between the office of the
Grand Secretary and the Lodge secretaries on matters of mutual concern,
a series of meetings have been held with Lodge secretaries in various
sections of the state during the past year.
At these meetings either the Grand Secretary or the Assistant Grand
Secretary, and in some cases both, have spent an evening with a group
of secretaries discussing records, forms, procedures and other matters.
More than one-third of the secretaries of the jurisdiction have been present
at these meetings and the discussions have been of great value to all.
It is our judgment that these meetings should be held occasionally
in the future as opportunity affords.
During the year, with the assistance of the printer, we prepared,
bound for ready reference, a complete set of all the forms used by the
Lodges in connection .with their work and in connection with reports and
orders to the Grand Secretary's office. This provided the Lodge secretaries with a ready reference to any form which they might have occasion
to. use and has proved to be most valuable.
One of the questions most frequently asked by any Grand Master
and by others who are interested, is, "How are things going with the
Lodges in relation to applications, etc.?"
Unfortunately, under the system of reporting only once a year, which
is in vogue in this jurisdiction, it is impossible for anyone to answer such
a question until the annual returns are in. There i~ no way of knowing
how many applicants are elected, how many degrees conferred, how many
affiliates are elected,. how many members withdraw, nor how many members have died, and since these reports are made but once a year, it auto-

this and
situation
.
bothTo
in correct
the Lodges
in theand a t th e same tt.me
to make all records,
by catching mistakes at their . Gra~? Lodge office, much mo~e accurate
m.embership return be required ~fc~he10~~d~=~ re~~r;imentdt that a d~onthly
with secretaries fr
.
·
is ma er was 1scussed
Lodges and by faro~ee~~:~:~~{10!1 of t~e ~tate, representing all sizes of
accordingly prepared a form anr:tm:s ~a~or~ty f~vored s~ch a report. We

~~v:~i~;n t~: made. t~eir return; for thee:no~~: ost~u~u!~ ti~eLr~~~~:~

is desirable, no~ !~r~ ?r'~: ~ned G~:n~~ p~rsua?ed .t~at the monthly return
as well. Approval of the 1 .
ho ge v1ewpom:t, but for the Lodges
the Lodge secretaries a P an is not, owever, unanimous on the part of
time but we do ask fond we. d<? not, therefore, ask for legislation at this
of the fiscal year.
r perm1ss1on to try the plan out for the remainder
1

We have been able to serve oth G d J . . .
602 courtesy degrees and they h
er dran . unsd1c~1o_ns by conferring
·· ·
ave serve us m 160 s1m1lar cases
In presenting the membership fi ur
f
·
figures for 1916 1917 1941 and 1942 .fh· es or the year, I have supplied
in years and a 'comp~rable time . . 1 t1.s represents a quarter of a century
are years prior to the beginnin~no~e a ton to ~hel9w7ar, for 1916 and 1941
the first year of a war A
f
a w~r an
1. and 1942 represent
thoughtful officer of G~and ct:~~! an~lys;s of the~e figures will give any
for grave concern. ·
an
a constituent Lodge real cause

°

Membership
Number of Lodges formed
1916
Initiations re orted
····························
6
Passings
P
·····················'·················· 3,760
Raisings ····························•······························· 3,618
Aff'l
···························································· 3,513
Gatni:~e~ ··~·;~~····················'"·················.············ 1,063
Reinstate~
r ················'··-···'·······················
Withdrawn·························································· 126
753
Suspended n~~~I;;;~·~·~t··~f""<l\;~~··············:··· 638
Ex elled
··················

~~~ ~.:.. ~.~~~~:::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : :· 8::

Number n;emdbers July 31........................•.....57 856
'
D ues rem1tte

t~~~ :~ ~~= ;::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2,515

1917
3
4,042
3,835
3,869
933
191
764
717
14
864
60,384
397
2,528

1941

1942

3,179
3,031
3,105
885
74
539
1,003
1,660
18

4,072
3,697
3,570
806

75

10
2,235
126,313
3,566

2,188
125,843
3,983
342

10

544
862
1,341
11

471

Fifty Year Buttons
a list of the ve t eran b rethren who received fifty-year butthis fiscal isyear:
tons Following
N ame and Lodge
.
Adams, Charles Hitchcock California No 1
Raised
Ahrens, John Chris, Larch:nont N
· .......................•........ May 26, 1892
~ 614·············:··················December 4, 1888
Allen, Walter Scott, Delano N
Arnold, Clarence Edmond, Ba~~rsfiei;i""':N~······-'·················--···January 3, 1891
4
Auradou, Antoine Leon, La Parfaite Unio~ ~0 •-···················January
17..............]anuary 13,
15, 1892
1892

39

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name and. Lodge
Raised
Baer, Reubin Edward, Sotoyome No. 123__ ;____ ,............... :...............July . 16, 1892
Bargmann, Herman Conrad, San Joaguin No. 19.............. November 9, 1891
Bean, George Albert, San Jose No. 10..................,.----········November 30, 1891
Bennett, Emory Enoch, Fraternity No. 399 .... _........•..............0ctober 7, 1892
Bentley, George Jefferson, Oakdale No. 275 ........... :..... ---~-·-····-.····May 24, 1892
Berton, George Abel, LaParfaite Union. No. 17.---·························-··-···lll 1891
Brandstatt,.John Nelson, Chico No. 111................................ December 5, 1891
Briggs, James Ezra, Canoga No. 611.. ......... ~ ...................... Septeinber 20, 1892
Brown, . Martin W., Monte Vista No. 655 .....•.......................... 0ctober 1, 1891
Carleton, Herbert Henry, Mariposa No. 24......... :.................... March 10, 1892
Castle, Durrett Oliver, Morning Star No. 68 .... :.......................:... April 7, 1892
Catts, George Elbert, Morning Star No. 68 .................................... May 7, 1892
Channon, T. B., North Butte No. 230 ............................................. :June 4, 1892
Christensen, James C., Rising Light No. 397 ....................-.September 16, 1891
Clay, Albert E., Pacific Grove No. 331... ....................................... ,.:May 2, 1892
Cohn, Herman, Doric No . .216...... -'-····-·········-~·-···-~----- .. ··········'"·····Apdl 28, 1892
Crooks, William Lowell, Benicia No. 5............. •-·····•········-···.··-January 20, 1891
Culbert, Charles Lenard, Henry Clay No. 95 ____ .......................... April 19, 1892
Culver, William Lee, Live Oa~ No. 61...---··-··················'··: ........... March 3, 1884
Davis, Claude Bernard, South Pasadena No. 367., .... :.•................. April 1, 1886
Davis, James Randal, Thousand Oaks No. 478 .................... ,....... April 1, 1891
Davisson, William Sherrrian, Suisun No. 55 .• _............ .,.......... 0ctober 31, 1891
Deming, Harvey, Redlands No. 300 .. ·-'···················-·····i-··············: ........... !.ln 1891
Dobbings, John Henry, West Los Angeles No. 373 .........•.... January 8, 1892
Edwards, Sylvanus David, Live Oak No. 61........................................ :: .. In 1891
Edwardi;;, William H., Anc~or Lodge No. 273 .................... September 3, 1892
Field, William Austin, Excelsior No. 166.............................. December 9, 1891
Fischer, August Ernest, Naval No. 87 ................................•..... August 23, 1888
Foster, Lincoln Grant, Morning Star No. 68 .......................• February 20, 1892
French, James Thompson, San Diego No. 35 ...................... February 13, 1892
Fry, Angus Eugene, Olive Branch No: 269 ........ ,............... December 29, 1891
Gardner, William J., Lindsay No. 416...:...................... :: ..... c•••••••••• May 23, 1892
Greenwood, James Alfred, Naval No. 87 ..................•........... February 25, 1892
Haman, Carl Wesley, Liberty No. 299 ..............•...................Septembei: 2, 1892
Hampton, James M., North Butte No. 230 •............................•........ May 7, 1892
Hansen, Rasmus, Pittsburg No. 429 ..•.....•........•........................January 16, 1892
Hazen, Solon G., Lexington No. 104•................................... December 15, 1891
Heyer, William Christopher, California No. l.. ...... _..................... July 28, 1892
Holt, Bertram Griggs, Hawaiian No. 21...................................... August 4, 1892
Hopkins, Oliver G., El Centro ·No. 384 ......•...............................March 12, 1892
Hubbard, William Henry, Colusa· No. 240 .................................... Ma:y 21, 1892
Huffman, Ira B., Phoenix No. 178....................... ~ ................ November 27, 1891
Hunt, Samuel, Hollenbeck No. 319 ............................................0ctober 28, 1891
Hunter, Thomas C, Pacific No. 136_ ................•......... .'.................... April 6, 1892
Jenkins, John Harvey, San Joaquin No. 19........................September 19, 1892
Johnson, Otto, Naval Lodge No. 87 ...:.: ...................... ---·············:···April 10, 1889
Knesel, Abram Lincoln, Granada No. 608.....•.....: ................ December 27, 1890
Laughlin, John McGill, Santa Rosa No. 57 ..·-········-··············:····0ctober, 1891
Law, James William, Santa Ana No. 241............................ :... 0dober 10, 1891

107.

L~hm:in, A. H., Santa MonicaE No · 3~ 7 -··················'················0ctoberRaised
L1ttleJohn James Abrah
31 1887
Name and Lodge

.

Lorenz William Frede .akm,D nterpnse No. 70 ................ September 10' 1892
. .
nc No.
, urant
Redlands
. No · 268 ·:·········'.················ A ugust 18,' 1892
ove, ' 1lham,
L
W .
300. ..........................:..........................:........ :In 1886
Daniel, Visalia No. 128
.
M~Kay, ~11liam,
Humboldt No.
····································-········April 16, 1892
79
McFadzean~

Micheletti, ltalo, Speranza Italiana N~·.-·z.19·······--····························May 2, 1892
Moore, E. A., Redlands No. 300
.....•...•.................................... In 1891
Murgatroyd, Benjamin, Californi~--N~·-·i················-,--·-~·····························In 1891
.
· ........................................ June 16, 1892
Nelson, Jam
es Wesley,
'
Newton,
Charles
Lewis Live
W Oak
db "dNo ·N61 .........................._.September 11 1891
'
00
n ge o. 131....................•...........June s' 1889
Owen,. William Henry Searles, Live Oak No · 61 ..•................... April
. 24,' 1891
Pana baker' Edward EllsV(orth Roseville No 2
.
,
.
Pendergrast Austin Albert F'
• 22....... ;...... February 16 " 1892
·
M
'
·
'
' u 11 erton No 339:
enn, H arwood M:i.jor, Santa Ana No
arch 8, 1888
P
Peterson,
John C., Pacific No.
· 2 l.. ............................ March 11, 1892
136
Peyton, J_ohn Sher.man, Burbank N~:··4Q6····························-December 15, 1891
Potter, Sidney, San Dimas No.
_
................................ February 7, 1891
428
Power, Erastus Barnum Park :N'o 449··························.-···············Apdl 4, 1888
'
.
···················.················'······May 11, 1892

4 ··························

Qu~lman, John, California No. l
.
.
Qu1rmbach, Frederick William, N~~a·i~~--N~·-··························--·March 1, 1892
·
· 3Z6-······················-May 24 1892
H., Coachella
No.· 476
.
Reid'. GeorgeLewis
Remington
D M
N ·······················'··········-············-July
17' 1891 .
:' ·
.,
onrov1a o. 308
.
'
evadlk,
RA
.
1chmond
Emil,
Live
Oak
No
9, 1892
i····:················.
·
············-MJarch
R
6
Rh okes, lexander Gordon, Live Oak ·N 0 ···6i"··-·········'·····-·····M··: une 10, 1.890
· ::························ arch 26, 1890
oo e, Arthur A., Rising Light No
R
39 7
Rorabeck, Frank Clayton, Live Oak N ···································-January 11 1892
6
Rosenblat, Arthur s., Pacific No
1...................... November 12, 1891
Rowland, Ira, Nicolaus No.
· 136...................................... October 31, 1891
129···········:································--······August 2, . 1892

°·

.
Scarlet, Samuel Van, Pacific Grove No 331 .
Seaton, Horace Scott, Charter Rock N~ 41 ·································-May 7, 1892
Seely, Howard, Lankershim Lodg N S42 o.'. ·:·'-·······················June 17, 1892
Shannon James Madiso L"
Oek 0 ·
.....•..•..••....•.... November 10 · 1891
Sh
' . .
n, ive a No 61
. .
.
,,
~ets, Wilham
Henry, Valley No.
· ·:·································'·······-In 188.~
135
Shives, Edward James, Triangle No 4g····:······················:············June 7, 1892
Shumate, Albert E Friendsh" N · 5 .................................. March 15 1892
.,
IP
o. 210
. 7······:·······················
.
0 ctober 22,' 1891
..
1."ll"1corn, George Edward,
Keith
No
Sk
Smith,
Arthur David San J
. N. 18 ....._. .....,........,; ........January 25 1892
oaqum o 19
. .
' .
·
•
· ···:·····:··························May
pies, Henry Alvin ' Ontari o N o.
. .
.
A ·1 16, 1'892
301
S
St ep henJson, Edward George, Elk Gr~~~--N~---i73···:····'······N·····'··· pbn 5, 189e
~uer, ohn Henry, Foothill No.
· · ·············· ovem er 2, 1891
St
Sttteley, Charles Howard S th G564····N······:·············-·········--·January 25 1892
t oc k ton, Guy C., Redlands
• ou
No. 300ate o . 320.··········-'··········:······ M ay 5,' 1892
S
Stone,
Fred George, Granada No.
g·············:·:············,·····················:... In 1891
60
Stuart, William Baker, Redwood Cit ··N ······--'.···················-~ebruary 17, 1892
Y
· 168--··················0ctober 10, 1891

0

Taylor, Albert B., Whittier No. 323
. .
.
Taylor, Julius Calisto, Oakland No. "i"ss······:············'.··'·:············March lli 1892
T?omas, Herbert Ivor, Pentalpha No · 2o2····························:-August 20,: 1892
i························--- -August 16, 189;2
Tiffany, Edwin Wells, San Benito N~
· 21 ........ ,... ,....................... July 9, 1892

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

108

109

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Raised
No 254 __ ...... ~ ....................... April 20, 1886
Name and Lodge .
Tllotson Willard Denton, Reading
·
.
_ ...... November 9, 1887
T~cker, ira Ward, San Jose No. l(L...............~····-········· .
A ril 28, 1891
H
Hollywood No. 355 ............•............... :..: P
·
9 1891
Updike, Peter o1mes,
. Ed ·n East Gate No. 290 .............................. February '
h 26 1892
Vassar, Ca Ivm - w1 '

~7°· ~-~ ·.-.·.·.·:.·: .·.·: .·_-.".".".".". ...D~e~~er

Walton, Leonard Arthur, Enterprise
5: 1891
........... February 22, 1892
W ard ·Kenneth Lester, Howard ~oN. ..2..6.0
Wren~ John W., King Solomons
o.
·············
7
'
H
David Delano No. 309 ............................January ' 1891
Zimmerman, enry
'

·11
Duplic.a te Charter, September 11, 1942 .
d licate charter was issued to Hi s
By order of the Grand Master, a . up 1 harter which had disappeared,
Ferry Lodge No. 236, to replace the odn~~nea Lcodge was admonished to take
"th r lost or stolen, an
. .
.
b
having een e1 e d 1· t than they had of the ongina1.
.
better care of the up ica e
Life Memberships
.
The Grand Master approved resolutions provid_ing for life memberships
in the following Lodges:
.
od e No. 244, $300.00; Corona
Yount Lodge No. 12, $300.00, Alc~~~z; N:. 335, $300.00; Mill Valley
Lodge No. 324, $500.00; West Gre d
497 $250.00; Roosevelt Lodge
Lodge No. 356, $220.00; FremontN o 5~~ $5000.00; Plymouth Lodge No. 560,
No. 500, $350.00; Seaport Lodg~ o.621 '$150.00; James A. Foshay 1;-odge
$200 00. The Gardens Lodge o. . ' H II ood Lodge No. 355, d1sconN .64i eliminating life memberships; Lo /w No 400 discontinuing life
. o..
'11·fe memberships; Burlingame o ge
.
'
tinuing
'memberships.
Dispensations Issued
.
.
.
requests
for
special
d1spenThe Grand Master approved the fol Iowing

J

sations for various purposes:
.
h th n that fixed IY'y law:
To elect officers at a time ot er . a
d
N 32 (2). Howard Lodge
0
·
G
ld
'
Temple Lodge N o. 14 ' 0 Hill Lo
L dge No· 64· Amador
Lo d ge N o.
No. 37; Hiram Lodge No. 43; _Nato~a ett~ i~dge. N;. 126; Lassen Lodge
65; North Star _Lodge No. 91 i7~-a~i:rra Valley Lodge No. 184; Southern
No. 149; Phoenix Lodge No.
' bles Lodge No. 286; Traver Lodge No.
California Lodge No. 278; Paso Ro .
Lodge No 337; le Progress de
294; Corona Lodge No. 324;. ';~;f;:~zLodge No ..395; Honolulu Lodge
l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371 (2)'
. Marico a Lodge No. 434; Bethlehem
No. 409; McCloud Lod~e No.d 430No 506; PJoppa Lodge No. 508; CuperLodge No. 453; Mt. Olive Lo ge d. N 560· Alexander Graham Bell
tino Lodge No. 510; Plymo!ltt ~o g~ ~98
Hemet Lodge No. 615;
Lodge No. 595; Pearl Harbor . o. ge o.L dge No 658· Ojai Lodge No.
.
'
Menlo Park Lodge No. 651; Livingston o
663· Barstow Lodge No. 682.
.
.
'
.
n a lication without reference to a committee.
To receive and act upon a PP
. L d N l78· Carquinez Lodge
.
L d No 110 (3). Phoenix o ge o.
'
Paiaro o ge
·
'
No. 337.

cz°).

To hold a meeting for the purpose of conferring a Third degree:
Arlington Lodge No. 414; Clovis Lodge No. 417.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the armed forces
who lacks the qualifications of residence:

San Diego Lodge No. 35 .(2); King David's Lodge No. 209; Magnolia
Lodge No. 242; Welcome Lodge No. 255; Hesperian Lodge No. 264;
Kilauea Lodge No. 330 ( 11); Carquinez Lodge No. 337 (2); Coachella:
Lodge No. 476 (3); Taft Lodge No. 516; Seal Rock Lodge No. 536; Hermosa Lodge No. 557; Plymouth Lodge No. 560 (2); Pyramid Lodge No.
562 (2); Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568; Chateau Thierr:t Lodge No. 569;
S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574; Kauai Lodge No. 589; Victorville Lodge
No. 634; Riverside Lo~ge No. 635; Willow Glen Lodge No. 676.
Miscellaneous dispensations iss11ed:
Balder Lodge No. 393, to hold special meeting in the' Masonic Temple;
Lakeshore Lodge No. 551, to meet during loss of charter; Kauai Lodge
No. 589, to hold meetings in the afternoon; Menlo Park Lodge No. 651,
for a temporary change of meeting place,

Amendments to By-Laws
Increasing fees: Burbank Lodge No. 406, to $75.00; Guardian Lodge No.
596, to $75.00; East San Diego No. 561, to $75.00.
Increasing dues: Y aunt Lodge No. 12, to $18.00 ; Carpinteria Lodge No.
444, to $12.00; Garvanza Lodge No .. 492, to $12.00; Indian Rock Lodge No. 638,
to $15.00.
Decreasing fees: Keith Lodge No. 187, to $30.00; Santa Barbara Lodge
No. 192, to $50.00; Magnolia Lodge No. 242, to $5.0.00; Techachapi Lodge No.
313, to $50.00; Highland Park Lodge No. 382, to $50.00; Glendora Lodge No.
404, to $30.00; Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448, to $50.00; Lincoln Lodge No. 470,
to $50.00; Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, to $75.00; La Cumbre Lodge No. 642,
to $50.00.
Decreasing dues: Olive Branch Lodge No. 269, to $12.00.
Fixing an affiliation fee: Burbank Lodge No. 406, at $5.00; Beverly Hills
Lodge No. 528, at $5.00.
Eliminating affiliation fee: Maricopa Lodge No. 434.
Providing for a change of met ting place: San Diego Lodge No. 35 ; Paso
Robles Lodge No. 286; Brawley Lodge No. 402; Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403;·
Torrance Lodge No. 447; Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509; Signal Lodge
No. 543; Lakeshore Lodge No. 551; S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574; All States
Lodge No. 593; John Marshall Lcxige No. 636.
Changing _time of stated meetings: Hawaiian Lodge No. 21; Alameda
Lodge No. 167; Kilauea· Lodge .No. 330; Fruitvale Lodge No. 336; Honolulu
Lodge No. 409; Schofield Lodge No. 443; Maui Lodge No. 472; Benjamin
Franklin Lodge No. 509; Signal Lodge No. 543; Lakeshore Lodge No. 551;
Kauai Lodge No. 589; Granada Lodge No. 608; Menlo Park Lodge No.
651; La Habra Lodge No. 659.
Excepting holidays as Stated Meeting dates: Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57;
Humboldt Lodge No. 79; Dinuba Lodge No. 385; Burbank Lodge No. 406 ~
La Mesa Lodge No. 407; Cupertino Lodge No. 510; Arcadia Lodge No. 547.

GRAND LODG.E OF CALIFORNIA

111

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

110

N 20 Mountain View Lodge
Revision ·of ·vy-li:lws: Sacramento Lodge o.
;
No. 194.
Trial Records
N 122.. Expelled July 4, 1931.
No. 703-A member of Alamo Lo d ge o.

Exhibit B-1: Statement of per capita dues collected during 1941-42
for Grand Lodge from 1941 annual returns.
Exhibit B-2: Statement of per capita dues and $25.00 Homes contributions collected during 1941-42 for Masonic Homes of California.
Exhibit C: War relief and Philippines dues fund-statement of cash
receipts and disbursements from January 1, 1942, to July 31, 1942.

Petition for restoration.
d L d
No 608., Expelled June 8,
J , .
No. 862-A member ~f Grana a o ge
.
J
4 1936
i935 Petition for restoration.
'
f E I'd Lodge No. 519. Expelled une ,
.
uc I
.
No. 893-A member o
P.etition for restoration.
.. d L d
N 637. Expelled April 6,
·( . No. 910-A member of Paltsa es o ge 0 .

Grand Treasurer's Accounts
Exhibit D: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1942.
Exhibit E: Statement of assets and capital account as at July 31, 1942.
Exhibit F : List of investments as at July 31, 1942.

.
d e No. 525. Expelled
i937. Petition for restoration.
N 996-A member of George Washmgton Lo g
o. 41 N t
orted on in 1941.
May 6, l~oos-: ~:~her of Pinole Lodge No. 353. Ex.pelled October 31,
. ,: No.
1941.
La Habra Lodge No. 659. Expelled . October
· No. 1006-A member of
7, 1941.
N 349. Susprn;led December
No. 1007-A member of Sequoia Lodge o.
2, 1941.
1008-A member of Corona Lod~e No. 324. Expelled JaI\uary 8,

Comments
As shown in the capital account of Exhibit E, the total of the expenses
and appropriations exceeded the revenue by $3,781.27. Included .in this
excess are the following items : loan to Carpinteria Lodge No. 444, $2500;
Federal Unemployment taxes for prior years, $522.17; and amortization of
ponds for current year, $331.56; total $3353.73.
All dues payable during the year 1941-42, as reported on the 1941
annual returns, have been paid in full. Our Exhibits B-1 and B-2 show proof
of the revenue due from the Lodges in accordance with their 1941 annual
returns and the $25.00 Homes contributions reports for the first three
quarters of the fiscal year 1941-42. The total revenue due, as shown, agrees
with the total cash received from the Lodges by the Grand Secretary.
Cash receipts were accounted for and traced to the proper depositaries.
Disbursements were made by checks and supported by properly approved
vouchers.
All bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries. Certified lists of stocks and bonds belonging to all funds were
received from the Anglo California National Bank which holds the
securities in trust .
In accordance with a resolution adopted by Grand Lodge last year,
the unpaid balance of the loan to Drytown Lodge No. 174, in amount
$440.00, was written off the records of Grand Lodge. A loan was made to
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444, in amount ~2,500.00, as approved by Grand
Lodge last year.
During the year under review, two special funds were set up under
instructions from the Grand Master-the War Relief . Fund and a trust
fund for the . account of the Grand Lodge, F . & A. M., of the Philippine
Islands. A detailed statement of the cash received and disbursed ·for the
account of these funds is shown on our Exhibit C. These funds are not
available for the usual Grand Lodge activities, but are to be used only
for the unusual purposes for which created. · We have not included these
special funds in the total of general assets of Grand Lodge. They are
shown under the caption "Gash in Banks" for the purpose of record.
(Refer. Exhibit E-statement of assets and capital accounts.)
We certify that, in our opinion, subject to the foregoing comments,
the attached statements set forth the financial condition of the Grand
Lodge, F. & A. M. of California, as at July 31, 1942, and the result of its
operations for the fiscal year.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB,
Certified Public Accountants,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

. . :No.

1942.
Suspended March
1009-A member of Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38.
No.
3, '1942.
C
L d e No 679 Expelled· March
' , No. 1010-A member of Canby ross o g
.
.
17, 1942.
G
L d
No. 30. Tried by
' N 1011-A Fellow Craft of Golden ~te o ge
..
o.
N 462
d expelled Apnl 3, 1942.
Paul Revere Lodge o.
an . L d N 136 Expelled April 7, 1942.
.
. d M
1
.• :_. No. 1012-A member of Pacific o ge o.
L d e No 259 Acqmtte
ay •
,1.
No. 1013-A member of ,Evergreen o g
. . .
1942. . An appeal by the accuser.
506 Expelled May 6,
No. 1014-A member of Mount Olive Lodge No.
.
of Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571. Sus1942.
• No. 1015-A member
11 d J I 7
P<: ~nded July 7, 1942.
lisades Lodge .No. 637. Expe e
uy '
No. 1016-A member Of Pa
1942.
·
k .L d
No 392 Expelled Septem. No. 1017-A member of West La e o ge
.
.

~er 14, 1942.

d
N 210 Expelled Septem. ; . No. 1018-A member .of Friendship Lo ge o.
.
b~r 3, 1942.
Report of Auditors
.
. ·.
.
d
p & A M. of c·alifot>nia:
To .the Finance Committee, Grand Lo ge, .
. f h G d Lodge F. &
·
t
d records o t e ran
'
d d J ly 31 1942, and submit
. We. have audited the· accoun s an
}., ." M. of California; for the fiscal year en e
u
'
h~;.ewith the following statements:
Grand Secretary's Accounts
,.., , ·
·
.
d d" bur semen ts for the fiscal
:. ·w
".'· . E
. X h'b't
·A·
Statement
is
I I
•
· of cash receipts an
~~~r :e nded July 31, 1942. · ·.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

112

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit A
Grand Secretary's Accounts
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1941................- ............................ ~ ...................$ 56,850.88
Cash received by Grand SecretaryDues from Lodges, 1941 (Exhibit B-1) ........................ $ 88,519.35 ·
Dues from Lodges, prior years........................................
43.60
Dispensations .........................................................•............
30.00
Charter ..................................................................................
50.00
Salvage .................•..........................................•.....................
12.52
Sales of supplies.................................................................. 8,136.39
Collections for Lodge officers' surety bonds..............
1,687.88
Total cash received direct by Grand Secretary.......•.. :...........

.15,415.49

Apudit ........................ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
resent for Grand Master
~odge officers' surety bo~·d·-~~~~i~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
xpense, Grand Treasurer......................................... .
Stenographic service for Grand Master
...... ··········
Travel~ng expense, Grand Lodge offi~er~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Travelmg expense of Grand Secretary to the Convention
S . ~ran? Secretaries in Washington, D. c..,..................
oc1a ecunty taxes............................................. ..
.
Federar unemployment excise tax for previO~s··;·~~;~········
Miscellaneous expenses ........................................................ ::::::::

500.00
286.37
522.17
522.57

Pay of representatives to Grand Lodge ................ $ 16,826.89
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief......................
398.00
Employment Bureaus ........................................... . 18,800.00
Traveling expense, Grand Master ....................... :: 4,500.00
Masonic club houses ............................................... :.. 15,000.00
Endowment Board
6,000.00
Grand Lodge Week --~~tl~-ti~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2,602.68
Correspondence Committee ....................................
500.00
History Committee
103.38
Masonic Informatio~··c;~;;;-~ltt~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
415.70
Refund to Lodges for overpaid dues ................. .
15.05
65,161.70
2,500.00

Loan to Carpinteria Lodge No. 444................................................

Ca;h disbursed through Gra11d Secretary's office-

----

Grand Secretary's office expense:
Salaries paid ............................ ~ ...........$ 12,836.51
Less reimbursed by Masonic
Homes ......................................
1,800.00 $ 11,036.51

Total cash disbursed by Grand Secretary ...............,., .... ,. $117,344.94
Cash disbursed by Grand TreasurerPurchase of stocks and bonds ........................................................... .

4,500.00
1,079.95
726.26
489.58

Office equipment ....................................................................................
Grand Secretary's office furniture and equipment ........................ ·
Printing .....:...... :... :.......................................,...............................•..........: ·
Salary, Grand Lecturer..·................ :...:., ............................ :, .............'..... ~
Traveling expense, Grand Lecturer and assislants ........ ~.:............ .
Supplies for resale (includes postage and shipping expense) ... .
Salaries, Grand Tiler and Grand Organist.'.~:;•...........................;; .. .
Relief, order of the Grand Master ..........................•.........................
Reimbursing Masonic Homes for outside relief for those not eligible for admittance ............................................·............................
Expe1w~:

556.84
306.69
849.66
729.64
490.40
150.00
309.93
1,125.25
. 655.41
250.00
345.96

Appropriations :
· 98,479.74

Total cash to account for ............................................. :.......: $170,746.11

Rent ..........................................................................
Postage and express...................................... c•••••••
Telephone and telegraph ................................. :... .
Supplies and sundry expense..................-............. .

Public Schools Vleek
Constitution month ob~;'.···-···················---································
rvance ...............................................•...
Traveling expense, insp-ector.s................................................... .
F~;fy~~t~:rs' bs~~:~~~e.ry and aprons ........................................... ::.

o{

Cash received by Grand TreasurerBank interest .............................. :........ :....................•.........$
684.49
Bond interest ..................................................................... . 5,666.71
Dividends ·...... :..................................................................... . 8,732.73
Amortization of bond premiums.'................................... :
331.56
Total cash received direct by Grand . Treasurer ...... :.............

113

Total all disbursements................................................................ $137,094.94
Cash balance, July 31, 1942:
17,832.30
339.33
984.19
5,455.70
600.00
1,065.18
6,912.47
300.00
1,821.80
5,219.71

; r

,;!~~~u~i~~o~':~~~~~~l-~~~,:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

19,750.00

285.38
1,266.29

Funds with Grand Treasurer ..................................$ 33,101.17
Funds with Grand Secretary................................. .'
550.00
$ 33,651.17
Exhibit .B-1
Statement of Per 'capita Dues Collected During 1941-42
for Grand Lodge from 1941 Annual Returns
Degrees conferred:
Number
Initiated ....................................................... 3,176
Passed ........................................................... 3 030
Raised ,, •....,...•....•.......•.. ,.............................. 3:105
Total .................................................... 9,311

Per Capita
Dues
Amount

@$1.00

$ 9,311.00

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Master Masons:
Membership, 1941 , ........•, ...........•............. 125,842
Deduct. dues remitted................................. 3,983
Total ....................................................121,859

115

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit C
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, January 1,
1942, to Jqly 31, 1942
@$ .65

79,208.35

Total Grand Lodge dues as per annual returns of 1941..................$88,519.35
Cash received during the fiscal year 1941-42..............................:.........$88,519.35

SPECIAL FUNDS
War Relief Fund ·
ReceiptsCash received from various sources.................................................. $ 66,742.45

DisbursementsExhibit B-2 .
Statement of Per Capita Dues and $25.00 Homes Contributions Collected
During 1941-42 for Masonic Homes of California
Per capita dues per 1941 annual returns (125,842 Master Masons,
less 3,983 dues remittedj :
Constitutional requirement ...... 121,859 @ 50c $ 60,929.50
48,743.60
Maintenance special levy .......... 121,859 @ 40c
Total dues collected.......................................,.............,...........::...::

109,673.10

$25.00 Homes contributions,
1940-41:
Initiations .......................... 3,176
Affiliations ........................ 264
E . A. and F . C.....·-·········
3
Dual members ................
4

Registration expense:
Office salaries ..........~ .........................$
Printing and stationery ....................
Postage ........:.......................................
Office equipment ..............._. ...............

925.15
1,236.43
123.96
83.16
19.25
100.00
201.87 $

2,689.82

142.00
1,151.41
65.58
161.95

1,520.94

Service Committee expense:
Printing and stationery ....................

$ '86,175.00
Total .................................. 3,447
Less first ·three quarters collected and
.
reported in 1941 proceedings............ . 54,225.00

Activities Committee expense:
Printing and stationery....................$
Postage .................................................
Traveling expense ..........,.....:...........

Balance fourth quarter 1940-41, collected during
1941-42 ...................................................................... $ 31;950.00
Add first three quarters 1941-42, collected during
1941-42 ......................................................................
64,925.00
Total cash received from fourth quarter 1940-41 .
and first three quarters 1941-42.......................... $ 96,875.00
Add cash received for prior years .. ~.........................
120.00
Total $25.00 ·Homes contributions collected....................................

Aministration expense :
Office salaries .........................- ..:......$
Printing and stationery....................
Postage ................................................
Telephone and telegraph..................
Clipping Bureau service....................
Hawaiian Islands inspector's expenses ................................................
Office equipment ................................

96,99.5.00

111.52
293.40
72.42
105.69

471.51

Philippine Islands dues collection expense:
Printing of forms ..........................................:······...

22.67

Relief:
San Francisco Board of Relief............................

25.00

Total disbursements ..............................................................

4,841.46

Total cash collected for Masonic ·Homes and turned over to
the Grand Treasurer...............,:..........,....................:....:.. :....~ ........ ."...$206,668.10

Cash balance, July 31, 1942, Bank of California............................ $ 61,900.99

Cash Received from August 1 to Sept. 30, 1942:
·General Fund ..........."....:.. :.~ ...:.............................................................$ 91,124.55
Homes .Maintenance ........................................................................ 49,098.80
Homes Building ................................................................................ 61,373.50
Twenty-five Dollars Home Contributions.................................... 43,775.00

Cash received for dues, ..........................:....:......................................... $

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS TRUST FUND

$245,371.85

1,486.70

American Trust Co., savings account held in trust for the
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of the Philippine Islands............ $ 1,486.70
LLOYD

E. WILSON, Grand Secretary.

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

117

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

116

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
Exhibit D
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements for the Fiscal Year
Ended July 31, 1942

Investments (Exhibit F):
Bonds ........................................, .............................. . $159,115.57
Stocks ....................................................................... . 413,540.63
Total ..................................................................
Less reserve for amortization of bond
premiums ........................................................ .

GENERAL FUND
Cash balance, August 1, 1941.............................................................. $ 56,300.88

Receipts·
,
From Grand Secretary., ....;...................•..... _....................$ 98,479.74
Bank ~nterest ......................................................................
5 ~~!:~~
Bc;>f1:d mterest ·································•········-······················
8'.732.73
D1v1de?ds . --·····························:··················-·························
331.56
Amortization of bond premiums ............................ ·-·····

----

11 3189 23
Total receipts ·--······-······························'················································- $ .
5·

Total to account - for.............................................................................. $170,196.11

DisbursementsAs per Grand Secretary's accounts, expenses and appropriations ............... .

Deduct excess of expense over revenue
1941-42:
Revenue received :
By Grand Secretary....................$ 98,479.74
By Grand Treasurer.................. 15,415.49 $113,895.23
Less expenses and appropriations ..$117 ,344.94
Less annual amortization of bond
premiums ......................................
331.56

117,676.50

Excess expense over revenue ..............................................

3,781.27

19,750.00

Exhibit E

Exhibit F
List of Investments, July 31, 1942
$ 5,000
10,000
5,000
10,000
5,000
5,000
10,000

Statement of Assets and Capital Accounts, July 31, 1942

Assets
Cash in banks:
.
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts ..................: .. . $ 33,101.17
550.00 $ 33,651.17
Grand Secretary's revolving funds ................... .

Grand Lodge:
War Relief Fund........................$ 61,900.99
Trust Fund for Grand Lodge,
F. & .A. M. of · the Philippine Islands ,................. ,.........
1,486.70

$605,730.54

Balance, July 31, 1942.........................................:.................................. $605,730.54

Cash balance, July 31, 1942:
Crocker First National Bank. .....................:....... $ 3,809.29
7,074.30
The San Francisco Bank.....................·-·······:·--:···
9,655.53
Wells Fargo Bank and Union Trust Co........ .
9,895.23
Bank of America ................................................... .
2,666.82 $ 33,101.17
Anglo California National Bank....................... .

under control of .

572,079.37

Capital Account
Balance, August 1, 1941.......................... ,............................................. $609,511.81

Total disbursements .............................................................. $137,094.94

Spe\:ial funds

576.83

Total assets

. $117,344.94

Purchase of stocks and bonds:
Defense bonds ..............:............... :.....$ 10,000.00 ·
Preferred stocks ................................
9,750.00

$572,656.20

5,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
3,000
20,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
3,000
6,000
10,000

BondsCost
Central Maine Power Co. 3Ya%, 1970.................................. $ 5,475.00
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. 4%, 1949............. . 9,350.00
El Paso (Texas) Electric Co. 3~%, 1970....................... . 5,412.50
Fontana Union Water Co. 4%, 1946................................... . 10,489.00
Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District 4~%,
5,120.57
1962-3-7 ................................................................................. .
Imperial County Highway 5%, 1943.................................. 5,125.00
Metropolitan Water District of Southern California
A%, 1980 ................................................................................ 11,312.25
Nevada California Electric Co. 5%, 1956.......................... 4,637.50
New York Water Service Corp. 5%, 1951....................... . 5,075.00
Northern Penn. Gas Co. 5Ya%, 1957.................................. 5,212.50
O'Farrell and Stockton Realty Co. 5Ya%, 1952............... . 4,775.00
Pacific' Gas & Electric Co. 4%, 1964.................................... 3,000.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. 4~%, 1961..;.......................... . 21,500.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. 3%, 1970.................................. 5,087.50
Pacific Power & Light Co. 5%, 1955................................ 4,812.50
Portland General Electric Co. 47~ %, 1960........................ 4,037.50
Railway Equipment & Realty Co. 4Ya%, 1949................ 2,955.00
Southern Pacific R. R. Co. 4%, 1955........................... :...... 5,580.00
Southern Pacific Co. 4Ya%, 1981......................................... . 9,565.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

10,000 U. S. A. Savings Defense Series G 2~%, 19S3..,..~--········ 10,000.00
20,000 U. S. A. Treasury Bqnds 2~%; l9S4.,.......,.....................,.. 20,S93.7S

fighting and dyin~ in World War II in order that freedom and freemasonry
may survive. His ardent concern for these brothers, undoubtedly, springs
from the fact that he fought and shed a ' part of his own blood for the same
purpose on the battlefields of France in World War I.

l18

Total bonds ·--~---~~~---~--------·-·····················~---·-----·-···········$1S9, 11S.S7

Shares
Stocks100 Cincinnati Gas & Electric Co. pfd. $% ................................$ 9,7S0.00
S,400.00
200 Coast Counties Gas & Electric Co. pfd. S% ......................
4S Gulf Power Co. pfd. 6% .....................~ ...................................... 4,7S3.13
so Kansas Power·& Light Co. pfd. 4~ %:..........:...................... S,237.SO
33,98S Masonic Temple Association of California........................., 339,850.00
5,525.00
50 Ohio Edi$on Co. pfd. 6% ....:.:....~~; ............................................
200 Pacific Gas & Electric Co. 1st pfd. S72% ..•.•....................... S,000.00
S,000.00
200 Rheem Manufacturing Co. pfd. S% ................................._. ....
200 Southern California Gas Co. pfd. 6%:.....................,...., ....,... 6,800.00
so Southern Indiana Gas & Electric Co. pfd. 4.8% ................ S,237.SO
so Southwestern Gas & Electric Co. pfd. S% ............................ S,462.SO
so Texas Electric Service Co. pfd. 6% ...............;.......,.............. S,32S.OO
so Tidewater Associated Oil Co. pfd. 4~ %.........................•.... 4,912.SO
so Toledo Edison Co. pfd. S% ...................................................... S,287.SO
T otai stocks .~ ...............'............................;......:..:..........$4 i 3,S40.63
WILLIAM

P. FILMER, G1·and Treasurer.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
To the Most Worshipf1tl Grand L odge of C~lifornia:
The message of the Most Worshipful Grarid Master has been referred
to this committee for the purposes of segregation and your committee
respectfully reports as follow's : .
We recommend that said message be segregated and referred to the
following committees:
·
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
1. All decisions of the Grand Master, numbered 1 to S inclusive.
2. Recommendation concerning courtesy to visiting brethren.
3. The action of the Grand Master anent riew equipment for Grand
Lodge offices.
4.' The recommendation fovolving the increase in the staff in the
Grand Secretary' s office.
To the Committee on Necrology :
1. Deaths of members which have occurred during the current
Masonic year.
In closing this report, we nominate our Most Worshipful" Grand
Master for a prominent place among the actual bearers of burdens. His
administration was but Sl days old when· Pearl Harbor, formerly a jewel
of the Pacific, became a Masonic as well as a national battle cry. Thereafter, his duties doubled and redoubled. His message this morning indi·cates that his chief interest centers on his Masonic brethren who are

119

We believe that we bespeak the sentiments ~f this Grand Lodge when
we say that the good he has done will still live when the words "rising sun"
shall again ~ave but one meaning-the dawn of a new day.
The report of the Grand Secretary was also referred to this committee
and it reports thereon as follows:
We recommend that said report be segre~ted and referred to the
following committees :
·
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
1. All resolutions providing for Life Membership.
2. All dispensations issued during the current Masonic year.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. The su.bject concerning monthly membership returns by the
Lodges.
To the Committee on Grievances:
1. All trial records.
To the Committee on By-laws:
1. All amendments to by-laws.
This morning you all heard our Grand Master compliment our Grand
Secretary on the splendid manner in which he has administered the affairs
of his office during his first year_. His proficiency is a surprise to no one.
We expected it.
Fraternally submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE,
GEORGE

E. DELAVAN ,

MARK S. EosoN,
Committee.

The report was adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

120

121

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

in ancestry, different in home environment, different in religious convictions, different in political beliefs, different in occupations and each maintains a different.. station and standing in the community. We meet here
with but one purpose, here we definitely cherish the same hopes and the
same desires for Masonry. Here every man is as good as his fellowman.
Here in this pure democracy every man may, vote his convictions without
hindrance. There is none here so high as would try to unduly influence
your action, there is none here so mighty as would seek to dictate your
vote on any subject. Here every man is imbued with the same high ideals;
all are here to be of service to Masonry and each realizes fully that he is
but a servant of Masonry.

ANNUAL ORATION
(By LAWRENCE C. KELLEY, Grand Orator)
OCTOBER

13, 1942

Most Worshitiful Grand Master, Distinguished Past Grand Ma$ters,
My Fellow Grand Lodge Officers and Brethren:
At the beginning of the time allotted to me on this full pr?gr~~ of ~
very busy week, it is my desire to express to our M.ost Wors?1pfu
ran
Master my appreciation for the very generous appointment given to ; e a
year ago· generous it was beyond my deserts, generous far beyon 1;1Y
ability. This has been a very busy year, and one, I trust, .of s~me serV1ce
to Masonry. I thank our Grand Master for this opportunity given .to m~
if I have rendered any service. During the past year. I ,ha~e. expe~1ence
the unusual privilege of visiting different parts of th: Junsdtctton :v1th our
Grand Master which has afforded me the op?ortumty to know .him more
intimately and the opportunity to appraise htm and to value ?t~• Val~~
him not only for a keen intellect; value ?im not on~y for his i~part~e
approach to every problem presented to him; value him not on 1Y or t.
kindly and courteous treatment given by him to all with w~m he cat ~{t
contact, but to value him as a man; a man among men.
e tru 1Y u
s
the wish and cry of the poet,
"God give us men a time like this demands;
Strong minds, great hearts, true faith and ready hands
Men whom the lust of office does not kill,
Men whom the spoils. of office can not buy,
Men who possess opinions and a will;
Men who have honor-men who will not lie;
Men who can stand before a demagogue
And damn his treacherous flattering without winking.
Tall men, sun crowned men, men who live above the fog
In public duty and in private thinking."

In this .<lay the indestructible, fundamental principles for which Masonry stands and has stood for countless ages are at grips with ev.il and
noxious and unholy influences. Masonry needs today as never before
all good men and true whose heads are clear and whose hearts are
strong, and who possess that sterling worth and moral fibre of Godfearing, American citizens. To depart from those fundamental principles
is to abandon the mission of Masonry and to desert the Masonic way
of life.
·
It might precipitate some argument if I were to make the statement
that the present generation has made no progress in the realm of music.
We admit that there have been many pretty and catching melodies
written but few to be compared with the old classics, the oratorios and
the operas. You have but to turn on your radio to be convinced that
this generation has not produced a Bach, a Beethoven, a Handel, a Mozart,
or a Verdi.

1

·During the past year he has preached a very strong and a very vital
Masonic doctrine. His theme and his message to us h3:s ?ee.n ~o .be men
and to be Masons. He has proven to the brethren of th.ts JUrtsd1ctton that
his were not idle words. Brethren, he is a man and he ts a Mason.
Many eminent men have occupied this station and have addressed t.his
Grand Lodge on various phases of Masonry whic? hav~ been both pleasmg
· t
ti e As I look over the list of those 1llustnous brethren, many
an d ms rue v ·
. .
I
hat appalled
of whom are in attendance at this .commumcatton, am somew
at the difficult task which lies before me if.~ am even to appr~ach the
standards set by them. It is not within my ab1ltty to speak to.yo~ . on. ~~t· · g to the craft" and give to you only that which ts ongma
ters apper t amm
b.
th
fi d to
with me Most of us who seek to develop a su Ject or a
eme n.
our sur~rise that others have thought that way before ai:id have wn~tn
or spoken on the same or kindred topics and we perforce light our ~an ~s
at their fires to illuminate our pathway in our search for further ltght m

1

Masonry.
We are gathered here in this 93rd Annual Communication ?f this
Grand Lodge. Every man here is different from every other man. Different

Some there are who might question the assertion that this present
generation has made no progress in the realm of art. We admit that
there have been some beautiful paintings produced but is there anything
comparable with ·Sistine Madonna, or with Blue Boy or with Pinkie or
The Angelus or dozens of other old masters now in the de Young Museum
the Huntington Library and other famous galleries of the world which
display . the sheen of the silks and the' satins and the careful technique
em.ployed in painting the laces and the embroideries which you will there
find?
Certain I am that I might be headed for trouble if I were to assert
that this generation has made no progress in the field of government.
But can you produce today a statesman to be compared with Washington,
Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, Hamilton, Webster and other men of their
day? Men who were willing to sacrifice their own opinions and personal
advantage for the good of all. Do you believe that the gigantic task of
framing and adopting our Contsitution could have been accomplished ·
under our pr-esent day political conditions? We have many politicians
today but few statesmen.
Why is it that this generation has made no progress in the realms of
music, arts, and political government? Is it because of the tempo of the
times in which we live or is it because that we have ·given no thought to
those fundamentals upon which progress in these arts and sciences must
of necessity rest? Have we attempted to streamline our ·daily lives and
those things around us which might otherwise be both pleasing, beautiful,
and harmonious and have given no thought as to whither we are traveling?
Every man here has been assured and knows that there is nothing
in Masonry "which will interfere with the duty you owe to God your
country; your neighbor or yourself." Masonry assumed that you' knew

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN.b LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

what that duty was arid that you had the strength of character to fulfill
it. You have now taken upon yourselves certain obligations which have
increased and added to the solemnity and the gravity, yes, and to the
sacredness of that duty.

education resolutely to the end that . the world may judge Masonry by
the individual Mason and that Masonry will not lose any of its prestige
as a high moral and spiritual institution.

122

"No debt, no obligation, is fully paid and discharged except we do so
in kind;" ·So, too, no fundamental principle of Masonry can be inculcated
into the individual life save that we ·know and understand it fully. It would,
therefore, seem that the first ·great Masonic duty which we owe to ourselves is that we learn the true meaning of Masonry and the second is
like unto it, that our brethren, too, learn to apply those principles to their
lives, to the end that the life of the community in which we live and of
the nation and of the world will be at peace and happy under· the influence
of Masonic teachings.
. There are many of o~~ brethren who are demanding a militant
Masonry and who would streamline this fraternity; those who advocate
that we condemn this or that religious organization, or this or that political
movem.erit. They insist that we use the influence of our numbers upon
legislative bodies for the passage or defeat of some legislation and that
we espouse the election or defeat of certain candidates for public 'office.
They desire that we commit our fraternity to follow some course and
enter upon some sphere of action wholly foreign to the original purposes
of Masonry. Are not these demands contrary to the fundamentals of
Masonry and the enunciations of this Grand Lodge? Is there any way that
we can exemplify before the world the worth and beauty of Masonry
except by our daily lives, and our conduct in practicing, "out of the Lodge
those great moral duties which are inculcated in it." From no other
examples can those who knock at our portals say that they come, "by a
.
favorable opinion conceived of our institution."
You need not be reminded that our fraternity is subjected to criticism
from without; that non-members . choose to act as judges of us. We may
say that we care not, that they know nothing of Masonry and, therefore,
are not qualified to judge. Deep in our hearts we do care for we desire
that all men conceive a favorable opinion of our institution; we crave for
our fraternity that high esteem and respect of our communities which
rightfully belong to it.
·
Masonry is judged by the individual Mason, by his daily life an·d ·
conduct, be it good or bad. The measure employed by those judges is the
highest standard of the community. Unfortunately, we can not select our
finest, the most upright, the best which we can produce and say to . the
world, "Judge Masonry by him." Masonry is usually judged by its worst,
by those who know .the least of our fundamentals and by those who fail
to practice and maintain our high ideals in their private, as well as their
public lives. Masonry can not lift itself by its own bootstraps. Masonry
rises no higher in its moral and intellectual sphere than the character of
the men who compose its membership.
The whole philosophy and the basic religion of human life is to be
found in the fundamental principles of Masonry, and unlass Masonry
can take these fundamentals, these pure and inspiring moral truths around
which its ritual and its symbolisms .are entwined, and translate them into
the very life and conduct of its membership we can not hope to live as a
fraternity, and I might ask, do we deserve to live?
While we know that perfection will never be attained in this veil of
tears, yet we can and I think must approach the problem of Masonic

123

When Brother ·Robert Gaylord was Grand Master he said, "Proper
Masonic education is a critical question and a crying need." It is still a
critical question and a crying need. I suppose that every Grand Master
since, as well as before Brother Gaylord has found it so.
·
Our first, most excellent Grand Master said to us in his Proverbs
"\Visdom is the principal thing; therefore, get wisdom and with all th;
getting, get understanding." There is a marked difference between wisdom
and understanding. Wisdom is knowledge. Understanding is the ability
to practically apply that knowledge. Do we really help our brethren to
get wisdon;, Masonic wisdom, and with their getting, get also Masonic
understanding?
Thousands have paid their fees, have memorized the required ritualistic
passages, have been enrolled as members and have never and do not now
have any tangible idea as to the meaning and the significance of that
which ·they learned. Those portions of our ritual alone are not intended
to convey any particular wisdom or understanding. As essential as is our
ritual, it is but a means to an end; it is the key of pearl which unlo.c ks
the golden portals of our ancient and beautiful mysteries . . But we must
go beyond the portals, we must enter the sanctuary to know and understand those mysteries. The Masonry that attempts to live within its four
walls can find its only expression in its ritual and in its symbols. As
dramatic as is its ritual and as beautiful and as inspiring as are its symbols
such Masonry has missed the very essence of its life and can not justify
its future existence.

***

Our candidates are admonished to, "manifest your fidelity
by a
by adhering to the
ancient landmarks thereof." They are not given instruction in the meaning of .the constitution, ordinances and edicts of this Grand Lodge and
their rights and duties thereunder. I venture that the vast majority of
our membership and probably many in this room have never even read
our ancient landmarks. They have never been taught their meaning their
significance, and their preeminence in Masonry· yet we expect th~m to
observe them "and never suffer them on any pretense to be infringed."
stri~t observance of the constitution of the fraternity;

. If ~asonry is to endure and to progress upon the same high plane
as 1t has m the past, must not these fundamentals be systematically instilled
into the Masonic life and education of our members; and failing to do so,
we may be assured that Masonry will live, only upon the glories of its
past and without vision of its future life. The observance of these fundamentals constitutes the Masonic way of life and they must be transmitted
to the future Masonic generations.

.
The comm!ttee of thi.s ~rand Lo~ge has tried many methods of bringing the necessity of Masomc education to the attention of the brethren
and all with little success. They have centered their work of Masonic
infori:iatio~ upon Master Masons. We are told that, "Masonry is a pro~ress~ve. science taught by de~rees only." Does this mean progressive i'n
ntuahshc work only or does 1t mean that the science of Masonry too is
progressive and should be taught by degrees also? We frequently lament
th e lack of interest in Masonry and the non-attendance of our members
May ~ot this be because our brethren have been disappointed in thei~
Manomc youth at the lack of M.asonic information given to them "by de-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

grees only"? l believe that if a man is interested sufficiently to spend his
time and money to take the degrees of Masonry, he really desires to know
what it is all about and will willingly and eagerly grasp at Masonic wisdom
and absorb Masonic understanding if given to him "by degrees only."

has taught us its lesson. We, therefore, are the champions of that great
bulwark of civilization, the American public school system.

124

In our Lodges we vote upon an applicant for the degrees and then
about seventy-five days later we tell him that nothing remains to constitute
him a member of the Lodge but to sign its by-laws. In about seventy-five·
days · he becomes one by whom the world may judge our fraternity. Is
this hasty conferring of the three degrees all there is to Masonry? Masonry
is not such a shallow thing as to be mastered in seventy-five days. It possesses the depth which the finest and strongest minds have hardly' sounded
with years of study.
There never was a time in the history of mankind when the teachings
of Masonry should be more emphasized; there never was a time when the
spirit of Masonry was as necessary. Every fundamental of Masonry, every
· virtue sacred to the heart of our fraternity is being singled out for assault
and destruction. These are testing days for Masonry. Evils both social
and political are parading themselves under the banner of good government
and democracy. The very moral fiber of our communities is in peril.
We can and should point out to the novitiate the place which Masonry
must maintain in the social, economical, political and spiritual world of
today. We should impress upon him that brotherly love, relief and truth;
that temperance, fortitude, prudence, and justice mean something more in
Masonry than is recited in th.e ritual. This can ncit be done by reading
stereotyped articles in the Lodge and particularly after a man has reached
the zenith of his desire and has become a Master Mason, nor can it be
done in seventy-five days. We will do well to give more time ·teaching
our candidates more Masonic fundamentals that they may have more
Masonic wisdom and more Masonic understanding.
Masons can not understand Masonry without knowing something of
its history; not only its glorious history in this beautiful state but its
history as a fraternity both ancient and modern. Masons should learn of
the lore of Masonry, of its legends and of its ancient mysteries; learn
how it all started, of its antiquity and of its change from operative to
speculative. We should know of those outstanding men of all generations
who have contributed to Masonic understanding and also of those stalwart
pioneers who gave so much of their time, their talents and their worldly
wealth to make this Grand Jurisdiction what it is today. Is not the
knowledge and understanding of these things as necessary to the individual
Mason as is the knowledge and understanding of American history to
American citizenship?
The work of our Public Schools Week Committee is demonstrating
fundamentals of Masonry. It is essential that our membership be impressed
that Masonry believes in the equality of opportunity for the children of
all, of the high and the low, of the rich and the poor of all creeds anil
religions; and that Masonry believes that certain private schools tend to
create classes and stratify society and as such are un-American. There
must be no stratification of society in America like the rocks in our hills
and mountains where each strata is held in its · place by the one above
and the one below but our stratification should be more like the ocean
where every little drop is free to move as it will and though it come from
the very depths yet it may one day glisten in God's sunlight from the
highest wave. We are lovers of the liberal arts and sciences and . the level

125

Our novitiates should be taught to know and understand the work of
our Masonic Boards of Relief and of our Masonic Employment Service.
This work is most essential to Masonry and must receive the heartiest
support and cooperation of all Masons. The candidate has little opportunity to learn of our Masonic Homes, of our method of supporting them
and particularly of the Endowment Program, which is one of the outstanding labors of this Grand Lodge. The caring for those elderly men
and women, to whom the world has not been generous or even kind and
whc:i now face the sunset of life with a feeling of peace and security which
is accorded them by our protection; and our responsibility of training the
children committed to our care, · those who will take our places in the
world of tomorrow, burdened with our blunders and our mistakes: These
welcome tasks should be made well known to the members of our fraternity and this knowledge should create in the heart and mind of every true
Mason the desire to carry his share of the burdens. I can look over the
roster of my own Lodge and I see there the names of men now dead.
Men who were well-to-do, men who were really wealthy. I know that by
their wills those men left thousands of dollars to charity. Many of you
might criticize them if you knew what charities were thus remembered,
sufficient to say they left nothing to our Masonic Homes. The fault was
not theirs. They were charitably minded but they did not come to Lodge
very often and the knowledge of our endowment program was not forcefully brought home to them. Part of the fault was with our system of
dispensing this valuable Masonic information. I, too, can not escape my
share of the fault. I knew of our Masonic homes, I knew of our endowment program both as a Master and as a Past Master and I did ·not
enlighten those brethren, with the result that Masonry is poorer and they
were not made richer because of it.
·
The strength of a nation is measured, not by its millions of people,
nor yet by the billions of its wealth. The strength of a nation can only
be measured by the intelligence, the morality and the patriotism of the
whole people. Wealth can and does corrupt the ignorant and this corruption unless opposed by a sturdy morality and by a self-sacrificing and
devoted patriotism will soon sap the foundations of government. Masonry
in this country has always been .foremost among those vital forces contributing to the freedom and the welfare of mankind and has by its
influence and activities created a practical citizenship among its members.
We are justly proud of our righteous claim that Masonry has builded a
great nation, a government "of the pepple, by the people and for the
people" by translating· the teachings and the free principles for which we
stand into the organic laws and high ideals of this government.
The call of Masonry to serve is ·greater today than ever before in its
history. The responsibility resting uppn us is heavier than in years gone
by. Masonry' believes in America and ail that America stands for. Within
our fraternity you will find the gospel 'of democracy more clearly taught
than in any other organi'zation that the world has ever seen. We do not
discuss withi11 our Lodges any of the controversial political issues, nor
the merit; of any candidate for public office, as we owe allegiance to no
political party, nor to any candidate for office, be he a Mason or be he a
profane. Masonry teaches an unfaltering patriotism and a fidelity to the
great principles of American liberty. We, as a fraternity stand here today
pledging ourselves to uphold the principle of education of the masses,
to uphold the citizen's right of free speech, to uphold · man's right to

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

worship God according to the dictates of the individua~ conscience, ~o
uphold the doctrine that church and state must forever be separated In
America. We pledge ourselves, our lives, our property and our sa~red
honor fo uphold and to defend these and all irrevocable truths as contamed
in the Constitution of the United States of America.

sacrifice if we are not willing to sacrifice? Can we expect them to be confident of the ultimate result unless we, too, are confident? What is this
thing we call loyalty? Is it loyalty for me, when able to do so, to refuse
to buy war bonds and stamps when my government needs the money
so badly to carry this war through to a successful conclusion? May I, as
a Master Mason by word or act seek to influence my Lodge, for any
reason, to decline to invest its funds in war bonds? Is that the loyalty
which Masonry teaches? May I as a manufacturer of articles vitally
necessary for the prosecution of this war, take excess profits for that
which I sell, by grinding wages down without regard for .the rights and
needs of humanity and by boosting the ultimate price without regard for
governmental resources? May I say complacently, "God is not looking.
I'll give as little and grab as much as I can?" Is that Masonic loyalty?

126

Our country is now at war. A war not of our choosing; a war not. of
our making; a war which has been thrust upon us; a war to determme
whether we will continue to .live as free men and free Masons under these
principles of government to which we pledge ourselve.s or whether we
must live under a form of government dictated by foreign powers.
I quot~ from a great American and a great Mason, "The time is
now near at hand which probably must determine whether Americans are
to be. free men or slaves. The fate of unborn millions will now depend,
under God, on the courage and conduct of this army. Let us, therefore,
animate and encourage each other and show the whole world that a free
man contending for liberty · is superior." That, my brethren, is not something from this morning's newspaper-that is a part of the general orders
issued by Brother George Washington as Commander-in-Chief of the
American Armies on July 2, 1776, two days before the Declaration of
Independen.ce. How applicable it is to our present day conditions.
This is truly a world war. When the world is at its worst, then
Masonry must be at its best. · Masonry as an organization has not declared
war upon any foreign power yet any malignant influences and any sini.ster
restraints directed. against our government are . also brought ag;unst
Masonry as the two are so closely allied in motives and in purposes.
Masonry stands for peace, has always stood for peace. If our prayers
are heard and answered there never will be another war. But there are
some things which we as .Masons love more than peace. Our forefathers
handed down to us a heritage bought with hardships and suffering, purchased by blood and tears-the heritage of freedom and liberty. We are
willing to sacrifice our peace that freedom and liberty may be guaranteed
to us and to our posterity. · It is only by transmitting thi's heritage to our
children that we can fulfill that obligation, and discharge that duty in
kind received by us from our forefathers. Freedom is the heritage only
of self-disciplined nations; others may deserve it but can not have it.
It is for this generation to determine whether we will be a self-disciplined
nation and whether as such freedom will continue to be a heritage for
future generations to enjoy or become merely "a consummation devoutly
to be wished," a . vague · and an obscure dream of life.
Each of us has a sacred duty which we owe to our country. It was
in your first degree that you were admonished, "As a citizen you are
enjoined to be exemplary in the discharge of your civil duties by never
proposing or countenancing any act which may have a tendency to subvert
the peace and good order of society; by paying due obedience to the laws
under whose protection you live and by never losing sight of the allegiance
due t.o your country.".
·
What is this duty which we owe to our country and with 'which
nothing in Masonry interferes? . What is this allegiance which we are never
to lo:se sight of? What is this thing called loyalty which Masonry teaches?
Is it just .words. which we babble like children or is it something practica1
which we as men must observe?
Can we exp·ect our brethren who now wear the. uniform and are now
in service to be loyal unless we, too, are loyal? Can we expect them to

127.

May I as a leader of a great labor union at this time and in this hour
of need call strikes in vital industrial plants, regardless of the causes which
might in normal times justify such action? May I either slow down or stop
production and refuse to allow others more patriotic to take my place
without regard for the safety of my brethren in service whose lives depend
upon the "stepped up" production. Is that the loyalty of Masonry?
Our Grand Master has seen war as have many of you. He knows the
life of a soldier in the trenches of France, he knows of the mud, the slime,
the filth, the stench, the cooties and other vermin. He knows of the distressing hours by day and night considering the welfare and safety of loved
ones at home. · He has seen buddies to the right and to the left of him
killed in action. He himself knows of the sting of enemy bullets, he knows
of the pain and suffering of wounds filled with blood-poisoning and he is
even now suffering from its after effects. Knowing these things, he has
asked us to give to a fund to relieve our brethren of their distresses
in so far as is humanly possible. He knows that there are many who can
not give and from those he asks only their prayers; but from those .w ho
can give he asks and expects not only your prayers but your money as
well. Is it Masonic lGyalty to refuse?
The Masons of California have made a solemn promise before God
and to our brethren, that, they shall not fight alone. Wherever the battles
of today are being fought in zones of combat there you will find our
brethren. Some passed through the tragedy of Pearl Harbor, some are
with the American Expeditionary forces in foreign lands and some are
with our combat naval units on the high seas. They shall not fight alone.
Some of our brethren were on Wake Island, some were in Bataan
and some were with General Wainwright at Corregidor, hundreds wounded
and killed, thousands captured and are prisoners of war, their fate unknown.
Their sacrifice shall not be in vain. They shall not suffer and die alone.
This is a war against women and children. A war to destroy the
American way of life. A war to take from those whom we love the
necessities of life, the very food which nourishes them. Our enemies desire
to degrade this fair land as they have other lands. According to Red Cross
records, thousands of babies died in the flight from Paris, hundreds of
persons have starved each day in Greece. Children there are who have
never tasted milk, women and old men to whom a loaf of sour, black
bread would be · a luxury. To save us from this and worse our brethren
are now fighting; they are now standing between us and the enemy; they
are baring their breasts to protect us. They shall not fight alone.

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Sacrifice does not mean something offered to appease the gods, but
is the giving, as a proof of love and devotion, of something. t~at is held
more dear and precious to the giver." Our brethren are sacrificing. They
are giving their all for those whom they hold dear. More men will be
called to the colors. More men will be called to sacrifice, to suffer and to
pay the supreme penalty-they and their loved ones must be cared for.
Eighty thousand dollars will not be enough. You will undoubtedly be
asked to give more to this fund and for war bonds and Red Cross and for
other war purposes. Will you give, will you sacrifice, or, must they sacrifice
alone?
This fraternity will meet this challenge, for challenge it is. We will
give because it is patriotic; we will give because it is Masonic; we will
give because it is charitable; we will give because it is sacrificial; we will
give because it is righteous; we will give that our brethren may be assured,
that they may know that we are fighting with them and that we do not
ask, that we do not expect them to fight alone. We will ·give to fulfill our
promise and to redeem our pledge before God, that they shall not tight
alone.
We are in this war and we must of necessity stay in this war until
it is brought to a successful conclusion. This is a war of hate. With the
Axis hate 'is the cardinal virtue. They hate everything and everybody who
opposes their will and wish. We as Masons are in this war because we,
too, hate; ah, but we do not hate as do the Axis powers. We do not hate
peoples or nations or creeds, nor even individuals as such. We hate t~at
for which they stand, we . hate that which they practice. We hate the
tyranny which reduces nations to slavery just because · they want to be
free. We hate the arrogance and intolerance which denies freedom of
worship. We hate the dishonesty and the treachery which attacks peaceloving peoples without warning and even while peace negotiations are
in progress. · We hate the cruelty which leaves men, women and children
to die of want, starvation, and disease to the sound of fiendish laughter.
We hate the cowardice and · injustice which torture and kill . innocent
hostages for fancied wrongs. We hate the murder which destroys men
just because they were Free and Accepted Masons. If we do not hate
these things we, too, will be destroyed.
Hate ordinarily has no part in Masonry. Hate is contrary to our
teachings. The religion of Masonry is based upon kindliness, truth, honesty,
tolerance, justice, love for all men and love for our God.
Masonry is a great brotherhood which springs from a common father.hood. "The supreme motive of Masonry is two-fold, the adoration of God
and the exaltation of man." Masonry has always maintained a most worshipful attitude toward God and a loving ministry toward man. It announces to a doubting, yes, and to an unbelieving world that God is the
God, the giver and judge of all life, the end of all knowledge and one
who is worthy of our adoration 'a nd our praise and one in whom we as
Masons and as a fraternity put our trust. It teaches us to lift the burden
from another's heart, to wipe the tear from an eye of sorrow and that
instead of tryfog to get into some imaginary place beyond the stars to try
to get more of heaven into us while here on earth. Masonry does not
follow the practice pursued by many religious and other organizations
which spend much time in trying to teach a man how to die. Masonry
is life, Masonry is a way of life. Masonry teaches us how to live and
having lived by that standard set · up, we welcome death, "Not as a grim
tyrant but as a kind messenger sent to translate us from this imperfect

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

129

to that all perfect, glorious, and celestial Lodge above where the Supre.me
Grand Master of the universe forever presides."
Many in~eresting .stories have been told of what a man will try to
save when his house 1~ on fire: Some of these stories are amusing, but
most of them a:e tragic. Stones ~f men trying to save things of little
or no :-ralue, t.hings t~at can readily be replaced, but leaving · priceless
possessions, things which can never be replaced to burn. I need not tell
yo.u that even now the world is on fire, that our house is · in . danger of
be.mg consumed
flames~ We have but little time for reflection to deter~mne ':"'hat ?we will save .from the conflagration. Will we save tangibles or
intang1ble.s. Are we going to try to save those conveniences, those comforts. of hfe at the expense of freedom and liberty? Will we cry out in
anguish when our sugar, our tires, our gasoline and other commodities
are t~ken from us. and view with indifference the taking away from us
o~r nght to worship God according to the dictates of the individual conscience, the right to think and the right to speak and the right to vote
~s seems best for the natio~ as a whole?.. Can we insist upon saving our
Jobs, t~e profits of our business, the political power and influence which
we claim ~s. our own and allow the brotherhood of man, the spirit of
sq~are-deah~g, the welfare of humanity to be destroyed? We can find
ne1the; happiness n.or peace. nor satisfaction in life if we save those replace~ble, ~nconsequenttal tangibles and allow those priceless, irreplaceable
intangibles, thos('! things for which Masonry stands to perish in the flames.

?Y

Masonry stands for those things whith are eternal, those things which
are ev~r new, thoug~ as old as the ages. It answers the needs of the human
heart JUS.t a~ eff_ecttvely today as it · did centuries ago and if given an
opportur.u.ty it will ever· grow as a progressive science in the hearts of
our nov1t1ates.
To adhere to Masonry's rigidity of purpose is not stagnation. To
uphold its ancient landmarks is not reactionary. To promote its fundamentals is not failing to keep pace with modern times.
"Finally, brethre~, whatso_ever things are true, whatsoever things are
h~nest, whatsoever things are JUs.t, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever
t~ings are l.ovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if lhere be any

v1r~ue and 1f there be any praise: think on these things. Those things
which ye have both learned and received and heard • • • do and the
God of peace shall be with you."• For on these things, my' brethren
Masonry th:o.ug~1out c~untless ages "has united men of every country:
sect and. opinion and 1n these things will you surely find the Masonic
way of hfe •

• Philippians 4, 8-9.

On motion of Past Grand Master Samuel E. Burke, the
Grand Orator was directed to deliver a copy of his address to
the Grand Secretary for printing and distribution to the Lodges.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF~RNIA

131

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

130

and to me during the past year b
h .
.
K. ~ehman, Arthur M. Warren YO~ e Assistant Grand Lecturers: Sidney
The~r proficiency, industry and ' 1 ed W. ~arr .and Chas. A. Schwartz.
termty.
zea are of mesbmable value to the fra-

GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California:
I respectfully submit the following report:
The Grand Lodge of California is in business session, and this Nation
of ours is at war. If, in this report, I omit the encomiums to which so
many of our brethren are entitled under the extraordinary conditions of
all-out war, please understand that it is in the interests of brevity and
business dispatch and not because there has been no meritorious Masonic

service performed during the year.
Some of you may have noted many changes in the officers of the
constituent Lodges occurring since the publication of the Official Roster
in January, 1942. These are substantial evidences of the impact of war
conditions upon our fraternity, but in the reading, few realize the additional
burdens this ftux has thrown upon the Inspectors of the several Masonic
Districts, not only in .the qualifying of the new officers, but also in the
matter of supervision of, and advices to, the newly installed incumbents.
That these changes have been effected without deterioration of ritualistic
proficiency or interruption of Lodge operations, is indeed a glowing tribute
to the zeal, ability and love of fraternity of our District Inspectors an.d
to ·the industry and enthusiasms of the brethren of · our craft.
·
At the commencement of the just past Masonic year, your Ritual
Committee, envisioning a term of ensuing peace, and not foreseeing our
immediate embroilment in this international conflict, entered upon a constructive program looking toward the further improvement of Lodge ;1.dministration in general and to the further increase .i n the number of that
already large · group of California Masons who ,have attained precision
in the ritual of our Order.
Under the presently established system of ritualistic instruction and
supervision, it is not contemplated that, nor is it possible ·for, your Grand
Lecturer to visit the .several Masonic Districts and learn at first hand the
local standards of Masonic activities and endeavors. To supply this
deficiency, a system of uniform reports, to be made pursuant to Section
53 of our Constitution, was devised. These forms served as a guide to
the specific information which your Ritual Committee desired to be covered
in the reports required to be made to the Grand Lecturer. Under ordinary
conditions . the preparation of these reports was, perhaps, burdensome,
but under war conditions it became onerous because of the press of. other
work, both personal and Masonic, which required immediate attention.
Nevertheless, Inspectors of the . Masonic Districts responded to our request and the information thus made available to your Ritual Committee
was found extremely valuable. Some soft spots were discovered, but at
the same time, these reports brought out some very interesting meritorious activities and methods of instruction. This information is being
communicated to all the Inspectors; attention is being given to the deficient
territories and in addition, in all districts, special instruction is being given
in rhetorical delivery and tone quality of speech, as well as placing emphasis on precision of wording. By this means we are raising, and will
further perfect, the general average of ritualistic rendition in this jurisdiction. In this respect, may I here be permitted to express my appreciation for the very fine and meticulous services rendered to the fraternity

The 1941 Communication of Gr
Officers' Manual which contained cer an.d Lodge. adopted a Monitor and
has been some inquiry during th
tam corrections and changes. There
word "and" to the word " " . e hpast yea: concerning the change of the
the Masonic apron. I wan~r tomc;nx:e portions '.?£ the work descriptive of
~ended and not typographical error T17i the. part1c~lar change as being in1ty f?r the use of the word "and;, b ere is considerable Masonic authorMomtors used the word "or" h" h ~t fsome of the very old American
never was an Order of the "S~ ic ~s G actually correct. In truth there
called "The Most Noble Order
arter." There is a British' Order
s!mbol of intellectuality· is an ancie ~~art.er.". The "Star" was an antique
tton used in a number ~f d"ff
n earing m heraldry, and is a decoraor grade within the particul~re~~~e~r~er.s to de?ote a distinction of class
because the order of the Garte h. t is defimtely a separate distinction
may verify these facts b e r as ?o grades. The inquiring student
"Orders" and "KnighthooX;, ~~~c~~:~1~o~~search tinder the heading of
Masonry might not be teach·
was properly substituted that
mg an error of fact.

~~ t~

The following matter reqmres
·
Lodge:
the special attention of the Grand
Due. to conditions in the Territ
..
commumcation with the M ·
d ory ?f Hawan and the difficulties of
1an occasioned b
to appomt
·
am
· seems desirable
a Deputy Grand Leet
Y war, it
!slands to his charge. Also that urer and assign all the Lodges in i:he
is.he~ and that an inspector be a th~i~resent Inspectoral districts be abold1stnct consisting only of the L ~p
ted for eac~ of the Islands with a
Th
o ges on the particular Island
.
. e Grand Master presently h'as au h .
. .
b.rother so appointed as Deputy Grand t ority to and ~ay delegate to the
ttonal matters including the ri ht t . Lecturer full authority over opera
all necessary
g. bole t9'Sd.ue
in t?e Grand Master's name,.
. orders and all d es1ra
ispensabons.
This will place the Masonic aff i
brother having full and recognized ::i~· of the Is.lands in the charge of a
Grand Master and the Grand L t
ial authority to represent both the
operations in that Territory will bee
and by this means all Masonic
e fure.rl'
act 1tated
Legislation is requirc;d ' to create the
. .
and on matters of travel allo~a'.nces.
office of Deputy Grand Lecturer
The _Deputy Grand Lecturer should not b
.
of the Ritual Committee other than those h l~ exp~cted to attend meetings
of Grand Lodge and limitation of h'
e dunng the communications
accordingly. The inspectors of th
is travel allowances can be fixed
required to attend Grand L d
ese ne~ly created districts should not be'
ge or receive travel ll
b
pose, ut a 1lowances should be p
'd d b
a owances for that pur
turer and the inspectors for all n:ov1 e .oth for
Deputy Grand Lee='
.
cessary mter- and mtra-Island trav
It ts my understanding that this ro
.
el.
the Grand Master and with th
P yosal meets with the approval of
Master, but special
legislation i: ~=~~~;e~ opproval
of the
Grand
.
carry out
the Deputy
plan.

°

th~ .

f

· h to recommend the folio . .
1ForThthe .immediate future ' we w1s
". .at m each Lodge, a Past Master s 1
wmg.

the District, be especially trained in. th"e rit'ua le an
ecdtedb eby
thebyInspector
of
used
the Lodge

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

as an Officers' Coach and a source of ritualistic aut.hority in the absence
of the Inspector: In the larger Lodges it is suggested ·that three such
brethren be chosen, severally assigned a separate degr.e e and especially
trained in their particular portion of the ritual. This semi-official officer
should be more or less permanent, hold office at the pleasure of the
Inspector of the District, and be regularly invited to attend all Inspectors'
Schools of Instruction. The Master of the Lodge should make use of
this brother's proficiency by holding frequent Schools of Instruction for
the officers of his own Lodge, as well as using this Past Master as the
Coach in preparing the individual officers to qualify for advancement. By
this means persistent and frequently reoccurring errors will be eliminated
in the degree work.
2. We recommend that, where possible, each Inspector hold a separate
School of Instruction for all Lodge candidates' coaches of his District.
meeting jointly, and that the head coach of each Lodge be encouraged
to assemble his own coaches for frequent instruction and discussion of
of the candidates' lectures. By this means, persistent errors in the candidates' work will be eliminated and the instruction made uniform. We
recommend that, so far as possible, coaching by a ''friend of the candidate,"
unless he be a regular coach of the Lodge, should be eliminated.
3. Frequent vacancies in line offices are certain to occur under war
conditions. We suggest that these vacancies be filled by calling Past M'asters
back into the work rather than by advancing the ] unior Officers before
they are prepared for the additional responsibility. Advancement un'<:ler
pressure is apt to result in loss ·of precision in the work. Further, the
individual officer loses, because he fails to perceive the fuller meanings
and beauties of the work and there is also apt to be a lack of his understandings of other Lodge operations due to the difficulties under which he
is laboring. The Past Masters so installed should hold the positions only
until such time as the Junior Officers can qualify in an orderly way and
upon the usual proficiency standards. Pursuing this plan, there will be no
recision of ritualistic proficiency due to war conditions.
4. Many Lodges are, and will continue to be over-burdened with work
during the emergency. All Masters should be cognizant of the fact that
too many degrees and too many long Lodge meetings can be irksome not
only to the officers themselves, but also to the members on the sidelines.
Let us be careful not to have our Lodges degenerate into mere degree mills
during these times. Members her.e tofore listless or dilatory about Lodge
attendance, must be encouraged to come out to replace the attendance of
those who have, entered the armed forces of the United States. Retain the
continuing attendance of these returning brethr.en by a reasonable amount
of ritualistic work handled with precision and dispatch, then plan the
remainder of the meetings so that the Lodge will continue to be a haven of
rest and refreshment, a place of friendships, a source of general enlighten•
ment and, particularly in these times, an inspiration to extra-Masomc
patriotic . endeavor.
·
Finally, and most important of all, hold your Masonic meetings
regularly and without interruption, regardless of what impeding circum.s tances may arise, even though by remote chance it be, though God forbid,
in the very catacombs of destruction. Remember that Free Masonry and
true Democracy are inseparably linked together. One is certain to perish
wher.e the other is cr,ushed. Recall the Lodge attendance of our early
California brethren, riding to meetings through miles of snow and dark-.
n·e ss that the roots of Freedom and ] ustice be firmly implanted in this
new lan'il. Envision the present vigorous activities of our Hawaiian brethren

13.J:
under the privations of act 1
b.
. . .
.
Torch of Freedom and the ~f h~o~ ~a cond1tlons. !hen march with the
country, sect and opinion ma g 1
sonry held high that men of every
to the true goal of all conscieyntc. earlyh see the way and follow triumphantly
1ous uman endeavor.
Carry on, my brethren·
California Masonry!
' carry on with the fine, aggressive virility of ·

Carry on!
Respectfully submitted,
CHESTER

H. WARLOW,
Grand Lecturer.

The report w as adopted b · G
d L d
· .
~f th
.
y -ran
o ge with the exception
..,
e recommendation
·
h
.
the Ha ..
I 1
co.ncermng t e teaching of t he ritual in
,. " wad11aGn sands, which was referred to. 'the Committee on
P oucy an
eneral
Purpo
· on ] urisprudence
.
. ses, th e c omn11ttee
an d th e C omm1ttee on Finance.

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

It is not too early to _prepare for possible disaster. We should not
delay, because even tomorrow may be too late. I will not play upon your
sentiments. The wisdom of completing this job is left solely to your reason.
I trust, then, that the following will be considered but a progress
report and that at the next session of Grand Lodge the vision of the
Grand Master will have been fulfilled and the security of our brethren
better provided for. Until that time, I desire to thank you for your generous response to the solicitation of the committee.
.
The Masonic War Relief Fund Committee presents herewith the report
of its activities and accomplishments.
·
The War Relief Fund was authorized by a proclamation of the Grand
Master on February 14, 1942, and the general committee was appointed at
that time. The proclamation also designated Henry C. Clausen, Past
Grand Orator, as Executive Vice Chairman, William P. Filmer, Past Grand
Master and Grand Treasurer, to be Treasurer of the fund, and Lloyd E.
Wilson, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary, as Secretary. An Executive Committee was subsequently appointed consisting of the officers
named in this report plus:
Raymond W. Blosser
George V. Rulofson
Alfred F. Breslauer
John W. Shenk
Russell C. Horstmann ·
Edward H. Siems
Francis V. Keesling, P. G. M.
Leon 0. Whitsell, P. G. M.

A number of preliminary discussions -preceded the formal organization
and first meeting of the Executive Committee on March 10, 1942, at which
a plan of campaign was developed, a series of recommendations concerning
the fund were adopted, forwarded to the Grand Ma"Ster and subsequently
approved by him.
.
. Appropriate explanatory letters and one circular were printed and distributed to the Lodges. Official receipts were also prepared and furnished
to the Lodges for use in acknowledging the patriotic contributions of their
members.
·
·
The committee has had the whole-hearted cooperation of all Grand
Lodge officers and of the constituent Lodges and it has been a genuine
pleasure for the committee to serve. The response to the appeal has been
most gratifying. As of this date, approximately 30,500 members qf 531
Lodges have contributed a total sum of $80,460.92. The number of Lodges
in which members have contributed $1.00 or more per capita is 189 and
there is every indication that a great many more will be added to this list.
An appropriately inscribed Certificate of Merit will be presented today to
each of these Lodges which has fully participated in the 1942 fund.
A full accounting of the expenditures properly chargeable to the War
Relief Fund is incorporated in the official audit of Grand Lodge funds.
Attached to this report and made a part of it is the detailed statement
of the participation of every Lodge in the jurisdiction in this fund as well
a.s a list of the Lodges whose members have given their full share for
1942 in the order in which they achieved that goal.
Respe~tfully submitted for the committee,

EARL WARREN, Past Grand Master,
General Chairman.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

135

1942 War Relief Fund
th . The Lodges shown in this list are those which have forwarded from
etr members total contributions equal to or exceeding one doll
member and they are listed in the order in ~hich they achi~ved that ;~af.er
b . The amounts shown are the total contributions for~arded from
memers as of the morning of Friday, October 9, 1942
Contributio,,;s
Lodge
Membership Forwarded
1 Dos Palos No. 681
............................................................ 42
$ 70.00
2 ~:;:aelN~~-2 680.................................................................. 59
59.00
3
77 .
VII
F
······················•··········· ..................................142
142.00
4 Fa bey orge No.
587..........................................•..............203
226.80
5
or estown No. 50.........................
5.6
56.00
............ ~·····················
6 Texas No. 46
41.00
7 El Sereno N;.--,·····················:········•······.····························· 41
181.00
8 Hope No. 234. 588.................... :·············'············ ............. l!H
62.00
62
9 Santa Maria N·~:··sa":··································
53.00
IO
693.00
11
287.50
12
.......................................... 170
170.00
13 San Pedro No. 332
·························· ..................................425
425.00
14 Cano a N 611
111.00
15 Altad~na ~~. 67s::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::..································l l l
.
...............•.................. 184
276.19
16 Argonaut No. 461
453.50
17
0
1
701.50
18
............................................ 240
360.00
19 Lexington No. 104
186.00
20 Coalinga No. 387 ......................._..................................... 186
306.00
21 Antioch No. 175 ...................................._._......................... 251
159.00
22
137.00
23
147.00
24
25 Olive Branch ·N~:-·269··· ····· ·································,......... :.:508
693.50
...............................•...... :............... 19.1
26 Blythe No. 473
208.50
27
49.00
28
125.00
29 Stockton No. 498 .............................•.,............................. 180
180.00
30 California No. 1. ······:·········:···································-......... 1_22
140.50
31 Alexander Grah~~···B·~·jj''N-·~···········································572
734.00
595
·
···························:······171
32 Reseda No. 666· .
204.50
33 Inyo No.
89.00
84
... _.....................,............... 7~
34 Marin No. 191.....
89.00
35 North Butte No. ·23 ·······················································.431
488.50
.......,..........................•..................... 120
36 Trinity No. 27......
120.00
37 Orange Grove N;:··293····························'.···-................... lOl •
132.50
38 Needles No. 326 ··········· ._...................._. .......... '.'! •••••••••• ~••••••• 2191
192.00
39 Whittier No. 323
···············································•····· lti
300.00
40 Mt. Moriah No. 44:::::···································'···················448
487.50
41 R. E. Dolley No. 616.:····:······························-..................383
427.50
........................... :.......................... 77
78.50

No.

..····'··············

~:~1~ ~:. ~t:=~~·=.:;;;;~:::::=.:::::=.:::::~::::::E

~a;::i~ ~~- ~~2::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;

.,;:

&7~~·~~ ~z ::=.: : .: :::::::: ::::::: :=.:::::::::::

~~:~:~a ~~- ~1~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1~

221:...::::::::::::::::::::::::::··················..····················
0

136

· PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Contributions
Lodge
Membership Forwarded
No.
547.22
42 Tehama No. ;;_:.~:.~ ............:........:.............'........................469
105
113.50
43 Elsinore No.
107.70
44 San Gorgonio No. 668........:..."........·-······························· 90
473.00.
45 Bakersfield No. 224..............................·-·-·····················.437
65.50
46 Guadalupe No. 237 ..............................·....:......................... 51
65.50
47 Trona No. 684.................................................................... 35
104.00.
48 Fairview No. 629...........,.................................................:..104
188.50
49 Tehachapi No. 313...................:.......,...................•............ 148
Wilshire No. ·445...:...................:.......:........:...:...................508
545.50
169.00
51 Madera No. 280.:.........•:..::..:::..::.........:....:.::...:..................164
192.00
52 Carmelita No. 599..:.....:......::..::..:.:::::.:..:.......,.:.....:.:.....:... 18.5246.00
53 San Fernando No. 343 ......................."·"··"·'·"'·'·····'··'-·····246
255.00
54 Truth No. 628............................_...............................c. ••••••164
220.00
55 Damascus No. 648 ·····-·············-'···································-·.217
60.93
56 Barstow NQ. 682..........,......•....·.,,.....•.........•...•..·.··.·.············:····· 56
202
23LOO
57 Chateau Thierry No.. 569
. ................................................
.. .
-. .
.
132
14650
1
58
437:50
59 I::;}~~~ ~~-1~!.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::·::::::.t25
123.00
60 Silveyville No. 201 .........:..:.:..............::........:.:...:..:.......-·- l23
60.00
61 Mt. Shasta No. 281....................:........:.......:................ :.:... '56
76.00
62 San Jacinto No. 338.....................:..........:.........:............... 76
Golden
Rule
No.
479.::
...
:
........
::.:
.......
:
......
:
.....
:
..............
:.367
467.00
63
193.00
64 Seaport No. 550..............:......"·······•·····'····'······•···················1.59
294.00
65 East San Diego No. 561................•..c ••• .'•••••••••• • • • • ••••••• • • • •••294
143.50
66 Western Star No. 2...·-······---··-·······-·-·-·············...106
112.00
67 Sunnyvale No. 51 l...........,....,..................._._................. 112
63.00
68 Hillcrest No. 573................................................................ 56
Star No. 68.........'...............................................422
443.00
69 Morning
134.00
70 Lompoc No. 262.......:........:...:.................::...............,.....-.110
157.00
71 Vesper No. 84 .........·.:...........................:...........:....:............157
403.00
72 Oriental No. 144...........~ ....................:......................:.:......401
292.50"
73 Santa Paula No. 291 ...................................•....................256
104.00
74 Morgan Hill No. 463.....................:.....................::........... 97·
258.50
75 Santa Monica No. 307..........:...........................................241
121.00
76 La Jolla No. 518 ,........:......:...:,..:.......:...:......:.................... 118
196.00
77 Dunsmuir No. 297 .. ~·········'•·············'····'·······'·······--····: .... 193
42.00
78 Waucoba ·No. 413.....................•.....·- ·····························'·· 42
118.48
79 Los Cerritos No, 674......:.......:.....................................:...114
1001.00
80 Live Oak No. 61.........................,......................................901
171.50
81 Laurel No. 245 ....:.'...............:..............................:...............J?l
236.76
82 Pajaro No. 110................ :..............................................,.....228
274.61
83 All States No. 593 ................................:...........................273
125.25
84 Table Mountain No. 124.....- .,................................:........ 97
309.00
85 Ocean Park No. 369.............................:.....:.......:..............309
172.00
86 Modesto No. 675.......................................::......:'....:........... 170
134.00
87 Compass No. 590 ...........................:.....:....:.:....:........... :..... 131
315.78
88 Craftsmen No. 559.........................................;...................217
51.00
'89 Kerman No. 420 ................................................................ 51
189.00
90 El Dorado No. 26....................................:.......................... 180
552.00
91 Southern California No. 278..........................................481
388.00
92 Honolulu No. 409 ...,... ,.~ ..,.:......,...,...,..,.............................222
279.00
93 Schofield No. 443 .......................................,.....,..........,.... :19~
249.50
94 Loyalty No. 529:...::......::..:.: ......:........................................ 239

m .......................:..............._........................

so

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

137

Contributions
No.
Lodge
Membership Forwarded
95 Three Pilll!,rS No. 613,.....,.,........,,,...........,,...,,.:·:.:,...,..... .l~l
191.00
96 Vallee De France No. 329 ..............................~ ............... 117
136.75
97 Oxnard No. 341......................................................:...........221
263.50
98 West Los Angeles No. 373......:........................:............ 196
196.00
99 San Pasqual No. 452............:...........................................336
336.00
100 Guardian No. 596.............:.........,..........:...........................260
294.50
101° La Parfaite Union No. 17................................................ 130
183.50
102 Sunnyside No. 577 ...................•......................................:.244
244.00
103 San Benito No. 211......................:................................... 129
134.00
104 Tujung;i No. 592.•.•..................................................•......... 135
135.00
105 Nevada No. 13....................................................................126
127.00
106 Si'?cerity No. 132.........:.............................................; ........ 82
82.50
107 Ohvet No. 205 .................................................................... 87
87.00
108 Monrovia No. 308.........................................................:.•..205
205.00
109 James A. Foshay No. 641................................................ 103
12100
110 ' S~linas No. 204 ...................................................:..............318
336:00
111 L1bertas .No. 466..:.......:.....:.........:..................... .,..............253
271.50
112 Laguna Beach No. 672.................................................... 71
78.00
113 West Adams No. 565........................................................202
223.00
114 Forest No. 66 .........................:...:...................::................... 43
52.50
115 Coronado No. 441...............................:........................... :... 175
192.50
116 Garvanza No. 492.................,............................................ 159
177.00
117 Lynwood No. 600.............................................................. 129
129 00
118 Fortitude No. 624..........- ...................•.............................. 129
136:00
119 Northern Light No. 190..,............................................... 79
79.00
120 C~huenga No. 513.-.............................:.............................299
405.50
121 Lindsay No. 416 .......................................:........................ 145
163.75
122 Menlo Parl,c No. 651........................................................,.. 80
83 00
123 Baldwin Park No. 660...................................................... 61
61:00
124 Greenleaf No. 670.............:..·..............................................202
202.00
125 Bethlehem No. 453........................................................._.292
292.00
126 Florence No. 649................................................................204
208.14
127 Woodstock No. 491 .......................................:.......:.......... 172
178.00
128 Lakeshore No. 55L.................................................... :..... 176
178 00
129 Cupertino No. 510............·-····•························-················ 80
83:00
130 Claremont No. 436...........:................................................ 93
102 00
131 Fillmore No. 379................................................................152
152:25
132 Manchester No. 585 ..........................................................211
219.50
133 White Pine No. 555... ....................................................... 78
79.75
134 Pomona No. 246........................................................ ,.......279
279.00
135 Mount Oso No. 460........- ....................................... ~ ........ 199
200 10
136 South Park No. 563.....................................................:.... 300
301:00
137 La Cumbra No. 1)42............................................................ 91
108.00
138 Paso .Robles No. 286....................... .,............................... 118
120.50
139 Artesia No. 377.....,............................................................. 77
77.00:
140 North East No. 266.......................................................... 51
51.00
141 Joppa No. 508 ··························································- ········ 54
54.00
142 Mount Vernon No. 517...............................................:....202
203.25
143 Volcano No. 56.................................................................. 35
44.50
144 Educator No. 554 ..............................................................249
249 00
145 Sunrise No. 522.............................................................:.... 191
195:25
146 M_ilitar.y Service No. 570..................................................249
250.37
147 V1truvms No. 145.............................................................. 97
98.39

138

No.
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Contri-'
butions
Member ship Forwarded

L d
~~
Wilmington No. 198 ··················-······'··················-········-288
A. F. E. Irwin No. 645.......... ~·-~·-····························:·····':-~~~
Norwalk No. 315..............._.......................,.......................
Downey No. 220.................·-···:·····'············:·········.·········:···!92
Bellflower No. 523 -----~······················································ 69
Jubilee No. 604 ·····················:······················-:··:······-- ······-) ~:
Piedmont No. 521........:··············:······::·:·..························2
Palos Verdes No. 389.................···························-··········522
Anchor No. 273...~---·······································:···················259
Lebanon No. 495.............................•..................................309
Provident No. 609.......................................................:....... 165
King David's No. 209...................................................... 301
Fram:is K. Shattuck No. 571...................................:...... 170
Visalia No. 128 .....................................:..............:.............319
Balder No. 393....................................,....................,..........456
Sequo~a No. 349........,.............................:...........................857

164
165
166 Roseville No. 222 ......................................................,.•.....264
167 Pearl Harbor No. 598......................................................226 '
168 Point Loma No. 620.................................................:.. ,..... 113
169. Burlingame No. 400................- ......................... ~ ..............388
170 Indian Rock No. 638........................................................ 120
171 San Francisco No. 360.....................................................-334
172 Justice No. 549:........................................................:......;... 154
173 Sunset No. 352...........................:........................................369
174 Paul Revere No. 462 .........................................................441
175 Jewel No. 374............... :....................................................... 128
176 Redlands No. 300 ..:...........................................................332
177 Los Banos No. 312.......................... :.................:............... 108
178 Eagle Rock No. 422........................,.................................253
179 St. Helena No. 93.........:........,....,........•............................. 77
180 Ft. Crook No. 575...........................................;.,................ 81
181 Missi~n No. 169......-.........................:.................................673
182 Inglewood No. 421... .........................................................297
183 Point Firmin No. 558.............................................:..........252
184 Henry Clay No. 95 ............................................................ 52
185 Silver Cord No. 505...................................:...................... .291
186 Sierra Valley No. 184..............:......................................... 32
187 University No. 394.................. :....................•....................476
188 Mariposa No. 24 .................................................................159
189 Sacramento No. 40............................................................ 528

t1!~~Sl~:.~~.~~~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::3~~

~n
~~~:~~
3 25

:
g
4 00
17
l64

218. 20
530.50
·

~~~·~~

· ·
165.00
307.00
170.00
~~:·~~

·
8~~:~~

357.00
27 4.25
226.00
113.00
414.25
122.00
334.00
~~~-~~

·
449.76
128.50
340.00
110.24
256.05
91.00
81.00
742.00
300.00
256.75
60.50
292.00
44.50
481.50 ·
159.00
528.00

139

Detailed Statement of all Lodges Participating in Fund to
October 6, 1942
Mem- Amount
· Mem- Amo1mt
Lodge
bership Receiv ed
Lodge
bership Received
California No. 1.......... 572 $ 734.00
Humboldt No. 79........ 309
40.50
Western Star No. 2.... 106
143.50 Ione No. 80 .................. 70
20.00
Tehama No. 3.............. 469
547.22 Yolo No. 81.................. 52
29.50
Benicia No. 5 ............ 134
35.00
Vesper No. 84.........:.... 157
157.00
Tuolumne No. 8.......... 202
162.50
Naval No. 87................ 644
505.44
Corinthian No. 9 ........ 261
88.00
Rose's Bar No. 89...... 35
19.00
San Jose No. 10.......... 425
437.50
North Star No. 91...... 41 ·
Yount ............................ 268
96.00
St. Helena No. 93...... 77
70.50
Nevada No. 13 ............ 126
127.00 Henry Clay No. 95.... 52
60.50
Temple No. 14...,........ 103
70.00
Hornitos No. 98.......... 78
3.50
Eureka No. 16.............. 185
130.50 Yosemite No. 99.......... 250
176.50
La Parfaite U. No. 17 130
183.50
Clay No. 101................ 64
42.50
Mt. Shade No. 18........ 40
25.50
Oroville No. 103.......... 243
172.50
San Joaquin No. 19.... 549
214.50
Lexington No. 104...... 186
186.00
Washington No. 20.... 510
320.00 Arcata No. 106............ 188
Hawaiian No. 21 ........ 337
234.00
Pajaro No. 110,........... 228
236.75
Occidental No. 22 ...... 726
542.00
Chico No. 111.............. 309
195.50
Madison No. 23 .......... 211
40.00
Summit No. 112.......... 41
12.00
Mariposa No. 24.......... 159
159.00 Eden No. 113 .............. 209
169.00
Georgetown No. 25.... 62
54.25
Concord No. 117.......... 238
25.50
El Dorado No. 26...... 180
189.00 Fidelity No. 120.......... 529
475.50
Trinity No. 27.............. 101
132.50 Alamo No. 122............ 142
120.00
Golden Gate No. 30.... 616
240.50 Sotoyome No. 123...... 146
114.00
Gold Hill No. 32.......... 91
5.50 Table Mt. No. 124...... 97
125.25
Ophir No. 33................ 44
15.00 Lafayette No. 126........ 175
43.75
San Diego No. 35 ...... 512
306.00
Hermal).n No. 127........ 201
150.50
Howard'No. 37............ 186
103.00 Visalia No. 128............ 319
354.50
Santa Cruz No. 38...... 325 ·
181.00
Nicolaus No. 129........ 81
Sacramento No. 40.... 528
528.00 Woodbridge No. 131.. 110
70.50
Martinez No. 41.......... 222
Sincerity No. 132........ 82
82.50
Los Angeles No. 42.... 662
198.00 Vacaville No. 134........ 141
6.10
Hiram No. 43.............. 51
15.00
Valley No. 135............ 61
Mount Moriah No. 44 383
427.50
Pacific No. 136.........,.. 582
693.00
Crescent No. 45 .......... 133
109.75
Crockett No. 139........ 573
701.50
Texas No. 46................ 41
41.00
Curtis Nd. 140.............. 60
39.50
Forbestown No. 50.... 56
56.00
Grafton No. 141.......... 67
IllinoistoW,n No. 51.... 65
Franklin No. 1°43........ 88
82.00
Suisun No. 55.............. 121
90.00
Oriental No. 144.......... 401
403.00
Volcano No. 56............ 35
44.50
Vitruvius No. 145........ 97
98.39
Santa Rosa No. 57...... 390
86.00
Abell No. 146.............. 156
118.00
Union No. 58................ 508
693.50
Eel River No. 147...... 166
7.50
Gravel Range No. 59.. 46.
Lassen No. 149............ 155
51.00
Plumas No. 60 ............ 100
· Molino No. 150............ 108
81.50
Live Oak No. 61.......... 901
1001.00
Woodland No.. 156...... 241
14.00
Natoma No. 64............ 125
62.50
Keystone No. 161........ 25
24.00
Amador No. 65............ 70
Harmony No. 164........ 15
Forest No. 66.............. .43
52.50 Excelsior No. 166........ 498
301.00
Morning Star No. 68.. 422
443.00
Alameda No. 167........ 124
125.00
Enterprise No. 70........ 208
Redw'd City No. 168.. 278
73.00
Bear Mountain No. 76 67
Mission No. 169.......... 673
Calaveras No. 78 ........ 73
51.50
Elk Grove No. 173.... 113
12.00

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Drytown No. 174........ 27
Antioch No. 17S.......... 136
Phoenix No. 178.......... 461
Mendocino No. 179.... 117
Petaluma No. 180...... 263
Russian River No. 181 88
Arbuckle No. 182........ 73
Clear Lake No. 183.... 41
Sierra Valley No. 184 32
Claiborne No. 185........ 51
Evening Star No. 186" 44
Keith No. 187.............. 137
Oakland No. 188........ 75S
North. Light No. 190 79
Marin No. 191.............. 431
Santa Barbara No. 192 212
Ferndale No. 193........ 122
Mt. View No. 194...... 178
Buckeye No. 19S........ 113
San Simeon No. 196.... 100
Wilmington No. 198.. 288
Hartley No. 199.....:.... 166
Truckee No. 200.......... 100
Silveyville No. 201... ... 123
Pentalpha No. 202...... S33
Confidence No. 203.... 25
Salinas No. 204............ 318
Olivet No. 20S ............ 87
Stanislaus No. 206...... 3SO
Anaheim No. 207........ 23S
Rio Vista No. 208...... 96
King David's No. 209 301
Friendship No. 210.... 513
San Benito No. 211.... 129
S. San F;cisco No. 212 224
· San B'ventura No. 214 287
Oak Grove No. 21S .... S26
Doric No. 216.............. 4S3
Monterey No. 217...... 145
Mosaic No. 218............ 13S
S. Italiana No. 219...... 356
Downey No. 220...... :... 192
Inyo No. 221................ 74
Roseville No. 222........ 264
Bakersfield No. 224.... 437
Brooklyn No. 225 ........ S22 ·
San Mateo No. 226.... 226
Athens No. 228............ 119
Solano No. 229............ 426
North Butte No. 230.. 120
Covelo No: 231............ 49
Janesville No. 232........ S9
Calistoga No. 233........ 71
Hope No. 234.............. 62
Surprise Val. No. 235 55
Hills Ferry No. 236.... 100

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

4.00
1S9.00
297.00
31.00
1S9.00
44.00
14.00
3S.OO
44.50
14.00
137.00
268.43
79.00
488.50
120.SO
53.50
86.00
29.00
292.32
123.00
490.00
336.00
87.00
137.25
91.2S
307.00
374.00
134.00
32.SO
139.oo
S19.50
274.SO
S9.50
126.00
224.91
193.25
89.00
274.2S
473.00
189.86
39.SO
300.00
120.00
10.00
. S7.00
68.SO
62.00
16.00
S8.7S

Guadalupe No. 237...... Sl
Colusa No. 240...:......... 147
Santa Ana No. 241.... 418
Magnolia' No. 242 ........ 240
Eucalyptus No. 243 .... 248
Alcatraz No. 244 ........ 463
Laurel No. 245 ............ 171
Pomona No. 246.. ~ ......• 279
Fresno No. 247............ 568
Alturas No. 248 .......... 139
Adin No. 2so:............... 59
Landmark No. 2S3...... · 86
Reading No. 2S4.......... 180
Welcome No. 2SS........ 111
Lodi No. 2S6:.. ........:.... 282
Penrhyn No. 2S8........ 96
Evergreen No. 2S9...... 463
K. Solomon's No. 260 5S3
Tuscan No. 261 .......... 79
.Lompoc No. 262........ 110
Hesperian No. 264·...... 219
Orland No. 26S ............ 106
North East No. 266.... Sl
Galt No. 267 ................ 63
Durant No. 268............ 54S
Olive Br'ch No. 269.. 191
Snow Mt. No. 271...... 40
Pasadena No. 272........ 433 .
Anchor No. 27 3............ 2S9
Arroyo No. 274............ 79
Oakdale No. 21S ........;. 116
Selma No. 277.............. 142
So. Calif. No. 278........ 481
Hanford No. 279.......... 144
Madera No. 280 .......... 164
Mt. Shasta No. 281.... S6
Calayomi No. 282........ S2
South West No. 283.. 172
San Miguel No. 28S.... 4S
Paso Robles No. 286.. 118
Winnedumah No. 287 108
Maxwell No. 288 ........ 49
Elsinore No. 289.......... lOS
East Gate No. 290...... 723
Santa Paula No. 291.. 2S6
Los Gatos No. 292...... 207
Orange Gr. No. 293 .... 191
Traver No. 294............ 100
Mt. Jackson No. 29S .. 112
Silver Gate No. 296.... S61
Dunsmuir No. 297 ...... 193
Liberty No. 299.......... 220
Redlands No. 300........ 332
Ontario No. 301 .......... 206
Santa Lucia No. 302.. 91
Porterville No. 303...... SOS

63.SO
76.00
360.00
S3.00
17S.OO
171.50
279.00
3SO.SO
2S.OO
40.00
180.00
8S.OO
149.50
44.SO
S4.SO
382.SO
3S.OO
134.00
72.00
44.00
Sl.00
18.00
122.00
208.SO
9.00
381.00
93.SO
142.00
SS2.00
S0.35
169.00
60.00
S0.00
120.SO
SS.00
113.SO
. 328.SO
292.SO
126.SO
192.00
S0.00
SS.00
212.00
196.00
128.7S
282.0U
92.00
38.00
19S.92

141
Reedley No. 304.......... 129
111.50 Willits No. 365 ............ 126
89.00
Azusa No. 305.............. lSO
58.00
Las Palmas No. 366.. 626
456.50
Ashlar No. 306 ............ 163
53.00
So. Pasadena No. 367 459
131.00
S. Monica No. 307...... 241
258.50
U nity No. 368.............. 354
357.00
Monrovia No. 308........ 20S
205.00
Ocean Park No. 369.. 309
309.00
Delano No. 309............ 161
128.50 Amity No. 370.............. 451
211.00
Sisson No. 310 ............ 67
L 'Oceanie No. 371...... 364
74.50
Los Banos No. 213.... 108
95.24
Gardena No. 372........ 150
35.00
Tehachapi No. 313.... 148
188.50
W. Los Ang. No. 373 196
196.00
Temescal No. 314........ 132
146.50 Jewel No. 374.............. 128
114.50
Norwalk No. 31S ........ 117
118.00
Richmond No. 375... ... 543
394.00
Sanger No. 316............ 179
117.00
Fr. Drake No. 376...... 189
117.00
Fallbrook No. 317...... S3
Artesia No. 377............ 77
77.00
Emanuel No. 318........ 71
Mizpah No. 378 .......... 338
14.50
Hollenbeck No. 319.. 1054
816.40 Fillmore No. 379 ........ 152
152.25
South Gate No. 320.. S99
72.00
Hunt'ton B. No. 380.. 243
152.50
Alisa! No. 321.............. 102
S3.00
Oceanside No. 381... ... 116
33.00
Alhambra No. 322...... 384
177.00
Highland Pk. No. 382 415
372.50
Whittier No. 323........ 448. 487.SO
Orosi No. 383.............. 81
23.50
Corona No. 324............ 446 . 292.00
El Centro No. 384...... 285
99.00
Consuelo No. 32S........ 1S3
92.00
Dinuba No. 385.......... 170
170.00
Needles No. 326.......... 216
300.00
Coalinga No. 387......:. 251
306.00
Long Beach No. 327.. 48S
• 49.00
Parnassus No. 388...... 621
368.18
Redondo No. 328.......• 201
99.SO
Palos Verdes No. 389 522
530.50
Valle de F. No. 349.... 117
136.7S
Imperial No. 390........ 68
56.75
Kilauea No. 330..:....... 182
123.00
East Belt No. 391...... 63
Pacific Gr. No. 331.... 1S6
89.SO West Lake No. 392.... 939
739.50
San Pedro No. 332.... 42S
42S.OO
Balder No. 393............ 456
456.00
Alta No. 333 .....•.......... 62
9.00
University No. 394.... 476
481.SO
Covina No. 334............ 192
S6.00
Turlock No. 395.......... 182
81.75
West Gate No. 33S .... 763
2S4.2S
Apollo No. 396............ 352
223.00
Fruitvale No. 336........ 749
59S.SO
Rising Light No. 397 540
301.00
Carquinez No. 337...... 147
33.00
Fraternity No. 399...... 368
160.75
San Jacinto No. 338.... 76
76.00
Burlingame No. 400.. 388
414.25
Fullerton No. 339........ 328
134.00
Bay View No. 401...... 307
92.00
Oxnard No. 341... ....... 221
263.SO
Brawley No. 402.......... 119
112.5(}
S. Fernando No. 343 .. 246
246.00
Y erba Buena No. 403 439
265.00
Starr King No. 344.... Sll
Glendora No. 404........ 91
13.00
Brentwood No. . 34S.... 76
Moneta No. 405'..:....... 617
311.0()
Palo Alto No. 346.,.... 4Sl
242.00
Burbank No. 406........ 281
195.50
McKinley No. 347 ...... 299
112.50
La Mesa No. 407........ 139
20.00
San Bernardino .......... 504
Sierra Madre No. 408 80
58.75
Sequoia No. 349.......... 857
860.2S
Honolulu No. 409........ 222
388.00
P alestine No. 35L ...... 484
302.00
Charter Rock No. 410 362
226.00
Sunset No. _3S2.,.......... 369
29S.OO
Perris No. 411.............. 75
52.00
Pinole No. 3S3.............. 12S
87.SO Calexico No. 412........ 129
79.00
Presidio No. 3S4.......... 49S
186.3S Waucoba No. 413........ 42
42.00
Hollywood No. 35S.... 717
292.SO Arlington No. 414...... 298
196.50
Mill Valley No. .3S6.... 299
199.00
Silver Trowel No. 415 298
193.50
Buena Park No. 357 .• 121
Lindsay No. 416.... :..... 145
163.75
Golden State No. 3S8 782
4Sl.OO
Clovis No. 41 7 ............ 242
113.50
Loyalton No. 3S9......... 71
62.50
Elysian No. 418 .......... 411
181.55
S. Francisco No. 360... 334 . 334.00
U pland No. 419........., 134
3.50 .
Fort Bragg No. 361.... . 93
50.00
Kerman No. 420.........; 51
51.00
Charity No. 362.......... 109
55.00
Inglewood No. 421.... 297
300.0(}
Berkeley No. 363........ 484
154.00
Eagle Rock No.. 422.. 2S3
221.0S.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

234.00
Mt. Davidson No. 481 280
York No. 423................ 178
98.SO
Cl.
F.
Smith
No.
482
..
2SO
287.SO
Exeter No. 424............ lSO
161.03
Bell
No.
483
..................
218
4-5.00
Holtville No. 425 ........ 87
21.0S
Albert Pike No. 484.. 197
252.00
Midway No. 426.......... 337
12.00
Chowchilla No. 48S.... 74
26.00
Chino Val. No. 427.... SS
24.00
Caledonia
No.
486.,..
...
204
6S.OO
'
San Dimas No. 428.... 104
135.00
Vallejo No. 487............ 230
31.SO
Pittsburg No. 429........ 149
Patterson
No.
488......
6~
69.00
McCloud No. 430........ 102
76.50
East Bay No. 489...... 254
305.50
Alpha No. 431.............. 383
Corcoran
No.
490........
72
28.00
Hammonton No. 433.. 6S
178.00
108.SO Woodstock No. 491.... 172
Maricopa No. 434........ 150
177.00
Garvanza
No.
492
........
1S9
lSS.00
Fairmount No. 43S .... 477
1.00
Atascadero No. 493.... 61
102.00
Claremont No. 436...... 93
46.00
147.00 Acorn No. 494 -··--···-··· 3S4
Lancaster No. 437...... 115
312.50
Lebanon No. 49S ........ 309
S2.00
Acacia No. 438............ 61
34.50
Riverdale
No.
496
......
S9
Sl.50
Tyrian No. 439............ 91
6S.22
Fremont
No.
497
........
306
1S0.2S
Standard No. 440........ 29S
140.SO
Stockton
No.
498
........
122
192.SO
Coronado No. 441 ----·- 175
Capital City No. 499 .. 203 . lSl.50
45.00
Blackmer No. 442 ---·-· 503
114.00
Roosevelt No. 500 ----·- 137
279.00
Schofield No. 443........ 198
136.25
Westwood
No.
SOL
...
199
27.00
Carpinteria No. 444.... 76
31.50
S4S.SO Harbor No. 502 .......... 164
Wilshire No. 44S........ 508
25.SO
Point
No.
S03
-------····--·
92
16.00
La Puente No. 446.~-- 67
210.00
Seaside
No.
504
............
290
127.SO
Torrance No. 447........ 198
292.00
37.00 Silver Cord No. SOS .. 291
M'o unt Diablo No. 448 153
33S.50
Mount
Olive
No.
S06
610
100.00
Park No. 449................ 408
50.00
El
Segundo
No.
507
..
168
120.00
Van Nuys No. 4SO...... 264
S4.00
1S2.00 Joppa No. S08.............. S4
Moritebello No. 451.... 234
80.00
Benj.
Fr.
No.
S09
........
208
'
336.00
Sari Pasqual No. 452.. 336
83.00'
292.00 Cupertino No. SlO...... 80
Bethlehem No. 453 .... 292
112.00
Sunnyvale
No.
511...
...
112
Crocker No. 454.......... 288
109.00
Palms No. 512 ............ 180
Golden W. No. 4SS .... 445
76.00
40S.SO
Cahue11ga
No.
S13
......
299
Ramona No. 457.......... 205
100.00
66.00
·Argonne
No.
Sl4
........
329
Hy. S. Orme No. 458 Sll
121.50
63.00
Vt. Square No. SlS.... 347
2.SO
Riverbank No. 459.~---- 80
107.SO
Taft
No.
516
.....
------~---·
173
Mount Oso No. 460.. 199
·200.00
203.25
Mt. Vernon No. S17.. 202
Argonaut No. 461........ 34S ' 4S3.50
121.00
La Jolla No. Sl8.......... 118
Paul Revere No. 462.. 441
402.76
47.SO
Morgan Hill No. 463'.. 97
104.00 Euclid "No. S19 ............ 247
241.63
Ionic
No.
S20
..............
303
· 248.00
Alta· Vista No. 464.... 270
218.20
Piedmont No. 521... ... 216
Center No. 46S .........:.. 338
2S0.25
195.25
Sunrise No. S22 -··------- 191
Libertas No. 466.......... 2S3
271.50
174.17
Bellflower
No.
523
......
169
Culver City No. 467.. 185 ' ' ·60.65
Catalina
Is.
No.
S24
..
101
Rockridge No. 468...-- 3S3 ,;, 157.00
149.20
Geo. Wash. No. S2S.. 269
Yorba Linda No. 469 84 '· 2S.OO
43.00
Bay
City
No.
S26
........
208
Lincoln No. 470..........' 256 ·
84.65
Covenant
No.
527
......
2S3
Delta No. 471 ...........:.. 298 '
Beverly Hills No. S28 233
Maui No. 472...........:.... 130
249.50
Loyalty No. S29.......... 239
49.00
Blythe No. 473............ 49
268.SO
Sun
Garden
No.
S30
..
363
1S6.00
Victory No. 474.......... 193 ·
18.50
Alexandria No. S31.... 117
71.00
America No. 47S ........ 3S4
34.00
Smyrna No. 532.......... S4
-46.00
Coachella No. 476...... 8;i
2.00
. 81.00 Azure No. S33 .............. 17S
Temblor No. 477........ 116
13.00
Forest Hill No. S34.... 96
Thous. Oaks No. 478 310 '" 128.7S
86.00
Golden Rule No. 479.. .367 I 467.00 Alex. Ham. No. S3S .. 134
78.SO
Seal
Rock
No.
536
....
,.
129
63.SO
'
Fellowship No. 480.... 196

Utopia No. S37 ............ 468
Ascot No. S38.............. 214
Belvedere No. S39 ...... 194
Queen Beach No. S40 113
Hy. M. Steph. No. S41 279
Lanker shim No. S42.. 267
Signal No. 543 ............J. 260
Glendale No. S44........ 317
Jonathan No. S45........ 152
San Gabriel No. 546.. 138
Arcadia No. S47 .......... 122
Triangle No. S48 ......... 109
Justice No. 549 ............ 1S4
Seaport No. S50.......... 1S9
Lakeshore No. S5L.... 176
Semper V. No. SS2.... 138
Educator No. SS4........ 249
White Pine No. SSS.. 78
Fairfax No. SS6.......... 112
Hermosa No. 5S7........ 116
Pt. Firmin N 6. SSS.... 2S2
Craftsman No. S59...... 217
Plymouth No. S60...... 191
E. San Diego No. S61 294
Pyramid No. 562.....:.. 189
So. Park No. S63 ........ 300
Foothill No. 564.......... 245
West Adams No. S6S 202
Jas. A. Gar. No. S66.. 142
Searchlight No. S67.... 304
Park Blvd. No. S68.... 222
Ch. Thierry No. 569.. 202
Military Serv. No. S70 249
F. K. Shat. No. S71.. 170
]as. Madison No. S72 157
Hillcrest No. S73........ S6
S. W. Hackett No. S74 188
Fort Crook No. S7S.. 81
El Cajon Val. No. S7G S9
Sunnyside No. S77...... 244
Progressive No. S78.. 282
W. G. Hard. No. S79.. 172
Santa Maria No. S80.. 48
Security No. S81... ..... 207
Rialto No. 582.............. 8S
Wasco No. S83............ 143
Harding No. S84....
149
Manchester No. S85 .... 211
Garden Grove No. S86 89
Valley Forge No. 587 203
El Sereno No. S88...... 181
Kauai No. 589............ 96
Compass No. 590........ 131
Escalon No. 591............ 76
Tujunga No. 592........ 13S
All States No. S93...... 273

3S.SO
44.SO
80.00
39.90
89.00
210.SO
297.00
70.00
79.00
94.SO
27.00
1S7.SO
193.00
178.00
lS.00
249.00
79.75
S7.00
83.00
2S6.7S
31S.78
178.25
294.00
39.SO
301.00
88.00
223.00
28.7S
111.00
131.50
231.00
2S0.37
170.00
16.00
63.00
136.SO
68.00
38.00
·244.00
163.2S
48.00
53.00
67.67
S6.00
219.SO
S2.00
226.80
181.00
134.00
24.00
13S.OO
274.61

143

Service No. S94.......... 30S
70.SO
Alex. G. Bell No. 59S 171
204.SO
Guardian No. S96........ 260
294.50
Pearl Harbor No. 598 226
226.00
Carmelita No. 599....... 185
192.00
Lynwood No. 600...... 129
129.00
Grizzly No. 601............ 95 •
Melrose No. 602.......... 123
3S.SO
Dimond No. 603........ 182
168.00
Jubilee No. 604............ 164
Glassell Park No. 60S 229 . 201.00
Sojourner No. 607...... 78
S7.00
Granada No. 608........ 297
n.oo
Provident No. 609 ...... 16S
16S.OO
Elmhurst No. 610........ 129
29.00
Canoga No. 611 .......... 111
111.00
Temple City No. 612 116
16.00
Three Pillars No. 613 191
191.00
Larchmont · No. 614.... 202
140.SO
Hemet No. 61S............ 90
26.50
R. E. Dolley No. 616 77
78.50
Big Bear No. 617........ Sl
20.00
Southland No. 618...... 17S
100.00
Neptune No. 619........ 117
80.00
Point Loma No. 620.. 113
113.00
The Gardens No. 621 199
10.00
Atwater No. 622........ 170
122.50
Menorah No. 623........ 342
203.00
Fortitude No. 624...... 129
136.00
Angeles Mesa No. 62S 318
100.00
Chula Vista No. 626 .. lOS
Lamanda Pk. No. 627 106
48.50
Truth No. 628....:....... 164
255.00
Fairview No. 629........ 104
104.00
Ingleside No. 630........ 96
. 96.00
97.50
Benevolence No. 631.. 194
91.00
Normal H. No. 632.... 182
75.00
Poinsettia No. 633 ...... 310
61.00
Victorville No. 634.... 82
85.00
Riverside No. 63S ...... 167
]. Marshall No. 636.... 96
53.00
Palisades No. 637........ 197
21.00
Indian Rock No. 638.. 120
122.00
Composite No. 639 .... 148
29.00
Veritas No. 640.......~.. 8S
S3.00
] . A. Foshay No. 641.. 103
121.00
La Cumbre No. 642.. 91
108.00
Alta Loma No. 643.... 230
63.25
Lomita No. 644.......... 94
A. F. E. Irwin No. 645 163
172.00
Metropolitan No. 646 77
10.00
Hawthorne No. 647.... 66
Damascus No. 648...... 217
220.00
208.14
Florence No. 649........ 204
La Brea No. 6SO........ 190
148.00
Menlo Park No. 6Sl.. 80
83.00
·~-...-

•

144

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Crescenta V. No. 652.. 121
Fontana No. 653........ 81
] ordan No. 654.......... 138
Monte Vista No. 655 .. 257
Citro! No. 656............ 118
J.D.Spreckels No. 657 306
Livingston No. 658.... 62
La Habra No. 659...... 76
Baldwin Pk. No. 660.. 61
Malta No. 661............ 109
Henry Knox No. 662 246
Ojai No. 663 ..............., 53
Kaw'eah No. 665........ 63
Reseda No. 666.......... 84
Meridian No. 667........ 173
San Gorgonio No. 668 90

51.00
69.00
119.98
57.50
83.25
31.50
56.75
63.00
61.00
58.25
2.00
51.50
22.00
89.00
75.00
107.70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

]. P. Jarman No. 669.. 116
Greenleaf No. 670...... 202
San Clemente No. 671 30
Laguna B. No. 672...... 71
Far West No. 673 ...... 151
Los Cerritos No. 674.. 114
Modesto No. 675........ 170
Willow Glen No. 676 105·
Liberal Arts No. 677.. 90
Altadena No. 678...... 184
Canby's Cross No. 679 60
Carmel No. 680.......... 59
Dos Palos No. 681... ... 42
Barstow No. 682........ 56
Redwood E. No. 683.. 21
Trona No. 684............ 35

66.25
202.00
12.00
78.00
62.00
118.48
172.00
72.50
41.50
276.19
41.75
59.00
70.00
60.93
65.50

The report was adopted as presented.
The committee having previously adopted as a part of its
program the issuing of an appropriate certificate of merit to
those Lodges which achieved their goal in the 1942 fund, Past
.Grand Master Warren presented to the representatives of 188
Lodges the certificate, properly inscribed, signed by the Grand
Master and the Grand Secretary, and the Grand Master personally thanked each representative for the excellent accomplishment of the members of his Lodge.

145

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns presents herewith an analysis of the consolidated returns of the Lodges in this jurisdiction as filed with the Grand
Secretary.

After eleven long years of depression we have ceased to lose members
and we now are on the upgrade.
During the past year we had:
Gains
Raised ..........................................3570
Affiliated ...................................... 806
Restored ...................................... 544

Losses
Withdrawn ............,............ - ......... 862
Dropped for non-payment dues 1341
Died .............................:. .................2235
Dues remitted ..........- ..................3566
Total net mem!>ership .......................................................................................126,313
A net gain of............................. _................- ....:.........:.,..........:.............'-..
471
During the past eleven years we dropped 29,174 members for nonpayment of dues and restored only 5475, leaving a loss of 23,699 members .
We again remi.nd you of this large group of former. members lost
during the hard years of depression and the slow years of recovery.

Many of those so dropped can be recovered with patient solicitation.
We commend it to your attention. It will be a spirit of brotherly love.
HENRY G. MATHEWSON,
ALBERT F. Ross,
WILLIAM W. McKEE,

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS

ALBERT C. W OLLENBERG1

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Accounts herewith submits the following report:
In accordance with the requirements of the constitution of our Grand
Lodge, on the last Saturday of each month, the committee met at the office
of the Grand Secretary tb audit such bills, claims and demands against this
Grand Lodge which had been received, and approved those which were in
order.
Respectfully submitted,

KENNETH S. THOMSON,

]AMES]. YATES,
DWIGHT N. DEANE,

E. ]. KLEINHANS,
E. H. WILKENS,

Committee.

The report was adopted.

MAX ESTILL,
SANBORN H. SMITH,

Committee.

l
ANNUAL RETURNS-1942
Name or Loda·e

Generol
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
·Building

147

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF .THE

146

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

$ 75.00 ' $891.10
$261.00
$208.80
1 California................-. $346.30
332.40
150.00
54.00
43.20
85.20
2 Western Star............•
1,027.85
275.00
233.50
186.80
332.55
3 Tehama.........·-···········
313.40
100.00
64.00
51.20
98.20
5 Benicia.................·-····
350.50
50.00
95.00
76.00
129.50
8 Tuolumne..........-·.······
445.50
50.00
125.00
100.00
170.50
9 Corinthian...·-········-895.10
250.00
201.00
160.80
283.30
10 San Jose....---·-······...;
969.50
500.00
135.00
108.00
226.50
12 Yount....·-··········-·····328.10
125.00
61.00
48.80
93.30
13 ·Nevada. ..·-····-··········318.65
150.00
51.50
41.20
75.95
14 Temple..........·-·····-·550.45
250.00
89.50
71.60
139.35
16 Eureka...............·-····253.85
50.00
63.50
50.80
89.55
17 La Parfaite Union....
91.55
25.00
20.50
16.40
29.65
18 Mountain Shade........
1,130.95
275.00
264.50
211.60
379.85
19 San Joaquin.:..............
990.45
200.00
249.50
199.60
341.35
20 Washington.........• .....
' 932.10
400.00
161.00
128.80
242.30
Hawaiian
..........
........
21
1,373.40
275.00
344.00
275.20
479.20
22 Occidental.................•
649.45
275.00
109.50
87.60
177.35
23 Madison ................--··
.384.90
125.00
79.00
63.20
117.70
24 Mariposa.....·-····-·······
91.45
29.50
23.60
38.35
25 Georgetown................
514.15
225.00
86.50
69.20
133.45
26 El Dorado..................
238.55
75.00
50.50
40.40
72.65
27 Trinity.................·-·····
1,426.70
450.00
297.00
'237.60
442.10
30 Golden Gate...·-····-····
163.40
25.00
44.00
35.20
59.20
32 Gold Hill..............-···66.65
21.50
17.20
27.95
33 Ophir.....................·-···
1,445.05
625.00
245.50
196.40
378.15
35 San Diego..........·--·514.95
200.00
94.50
75.60
144.85
37 Howard...........·-······630.10
150.00
151.00
120.80
208.30
38 Santa Cruz.....·-··--'-·
1,124.50
300.00
255.00
204.00
365.50
Sacramento
................
40
458.10
100.00
111.00
88.80
158.30
41 Martinez.................- ..
1,329.75
325.00
312.50
250.00
442.25
42 Los Angeles ................
135.05
50.00
25.50
20.40
39.15
43 Hiram........................•
640.55
75.00
180.50
144.40
240.65
44 Mount Moriah...·-·····
249.75
50.00
62.50
50.00
87.25
45 C rescent City...........•
60.4S
.
19.50
15.60
25.35
Texas
...........................
46
144.35
50.00
28.50
22.80
43.05
50 Forbestown.........·-····
245.95.
125.00
34.50
27.60
58.85
51 Illinoistown......----···
230.70
50.00
57.00
45.60
78.10
Suisun
.......................
55
53.15
16.50
13.20
23.45
Volcano
.......................
56
973.80
325.00
198.00
158.40
292.40
57 Santa Rosa .................
1,019.15
225.00
246.50
197.20
350.45
58 Union ......................--124.75
50.00
22.50
18.00
34.25
59 Gravel Range ...........196.05
50.00
45.50
36.40
64.15
60 Plumas............-··-······
2,031.40
625.00
434.00
347.20
625.20
61 Live Oak...·-···············
328.75
125.00
62.50
50.00
91.25
64 Natoma..•......·-····-·····
126.75
25.00
32.50
26.00
43.25
65 Amador ......................•
116.55
50.00
20.50
16.40
29.65
66 Forest...·-····-····-····-··
851.20
200.00
202.00
161.60
287.60
Morning
Star
..........
-.
68
351.60
50.00
96.00
76.80
128.80
70 Enterprise..................•
120.45
25.00
29.50
23.60
42.35
76 Bear Mountain...........
189.95
75.00
34.50
27.60
52.85
78 Calaveras.........·-········
690.10
200.00
151.00
120.80
218.30
79 . Humboldt................- ..
192.05
75.00
35.50
28.40
53.15
80 lone-····-······················

81
84
87
89
91
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110

111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181

Name or LQdge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Yolo............--····-····-·
Vesper.........................
Naval.. ....................- ..-'
Rose's Bar................-.
North Star.... ~···········St. Helena.:..·-·····-·····
Henry Clay.................
Hornitos......................
Yosemite.....................
Clay..............................
Oroville.............- ........
Lexington...................
Arcata..... _.................;.
Pajaro......................-.
Chico.......................- ..
Summit....................- ..
Eden...........................•
Concord.......................
Fidelity........................
Alamo..........................
Sotoyorne....·-··········-·
Table Mountain.........
Lafayette.................. _.
Hermann.....................
Visalia.......·.··············-·
N ic61aus......c•••••••••••••••
Woodbridge............__
Sincerity....- ...,..........•
Vacaville.....................
Valley.....................:....
Pacific.........................
Crockett...............·-····
Curtis.,..······-··········-·Grafton......................•
Franklin......................
Oriental.......................
Vitruvius .....................
Abell.. ...............- ..··-···
Eel River ...................•
Lassen......................- ..
Molino.........·-·············
Woodland...................
Keystone..••.·-·············
Harmony.....................
Excelsior.....................
Alameda......................
Redwood City...........•
Mission ......................Elk Grove...·- ··········-··
Drytown·......................
Antioch............' ·······-Phoenix.......................
Mendocino.......: ..........
Petaluma.................•..
Russian River.............

33.15
117.35
568.90
26.40
27.30
63.70
36.20
53.40
196.55
39.35
163.15
164.05
121.55
164.65
216.40
22.75
141.30
188.05
334.25
117.55
106.95
68.45
126.85
122.90
241.30
53.65
95.15
55.00
106.95
45.30
381.25
372.90
39.05
40.30
56.70
261.00
69, 50
109.40
131.55
lOl.85
82.35
150.35
14.30
9.10
302.75
80.65
194.25
432.10
83.75
18.60
117.70
347.85
74.50
187.00
55.60

20.40
63.60
258.40
14.40
16.80
31.20
19.20
30.40
98.80
23.60
92.40
78.80
74.80
88.40
118.40
14.00
80.80
94.80
194.00
58.80
57.20
37.20
67.20
74.40
128.80
32.40
44.40
32.00
57.20
24.80
218.00
218.40
22.80
24.80
31.20
152.00
36.00
62.40
66.80
59.60
39.60
87.60
8.80
5.60
174.00
48.40
106.00
253.60
46.00
9.60
55.20
179.60
44.00
104.00
33.60

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

25.50
79.50
175.00
323.00 1,375.00
18.00
25.00
21.00
39.00
125.00
25.00
24.00
38.00.
50.00
350.00
123.50
25.00
29.50
115.50
100.00
375.00
98.50.
93.50
225.00
110.50
148.00
225.00
17.50
100.00
101.00
275.00
118.50
125.00
242.50
225.00
73.50
100.00
71.50
75.00
46.50
200.00
84.50
93.00
250.00
161.00
25.00
40.50
225.00
55.50
50.00
40.00
100.00
71.50
50.00
31.00
200.00
272.50
150.00
273.00
28.50
31.00
75.00
39.00
125.00
190.00
75.00
45.00
100.00
78.00
225.00
83.50
75.00
74.50
175.00
49.50
75.00
109.50
11.00
7.00
150.00
217.50
60.50
225.00
132.50
150.00
317.00
25.00
57.50
25.00
12.00
300.00
69.00
224.50
475.00
25.00
55.QO
100.00
130.00
42.00

Total

79.05
435.45
2,525.30
83.80
65.10
258.90
104.40
171.80
768.85
117.45
471.05
716.35
289.85
588.55
707.80
54.25
423.10
676.35
895.75
474.85
335.65
227.15
478.95
290.30
781.10
151.55
420:05
177.00
335.65
151.10
1,071.75
1,014.30
90.35
96.10
201.90
728.00
225.50
349.80
506.85
310.95
346.45
422.45
34.10
21.70
844.25
189.55
657.75
1,152.70
212.25
65.20
541.90
1,226.95
198.50
521.00
131.20

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

149

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

148

Name or Lodge
Nam~ or Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00

Home Tai

Total

136.0S
2S.OO
3S.SO
28.40
47.lS
1.82 Arbuckle............•.......•.
116.6S
50.00
21.SO
17.20
27.9S
183 Clear Lake:...............79.lS
2S.OO
16.SO
13.20
24.4S
184 Sierra Valley..........-..
79.0S
2S.SO
20.40
33.IS
Claiborne
.....................
18S
S7.35
18.SO
14.80
24.05
186 Evening Star..............
206.80
2S.OO
S8.00
46.40
77.40
187 Keith....·-·····················
1,810.SO
6SO.OO
3SS.OO
284.00
521.50
188 Oakland....................- 17S.80
S0.00
38.00
30.40
S7.40
190 Northern Light......_..
902.20
22S.OO
212.00
169.60
29S.60
191 Marin...............·-······-·
309.SS
2S.OO
90.SO
72.40
121.6S
192 Santa Barbara......~.....
209.80
2S.OO
S8.00
46.40
80.40
193 Ferndale......................
Sl l.8S
200.00
93.SO
74.80
143.SS
194 Mt. View................--349.3S
lS0.00
S8.SO
46.80
94.0S
19S Buckeye.......,.............184.00
2S.OO
S0.00
40.00
69.00
196 San Simeon.................
833.80
37S.OO
138.00
110.40
210.40
198 Wilmington..............416.45
lS0.00
79.SO
63.60
123.3S
199 Hartley......•...............223.0S
7S.OO
45.SO
36.40
66.lS
200 Truckee....·-··········-····
184.4S
59.SO
47.60
77.35
201 Silveyville...................
l,079.4S
2S0.00
2S9.SO
207.60
362.3S
202 Pentalpha•.~...:..........- ..
12S.8S
7S.OO
13.SO
10.80
26.SS
203 Confidence...·-··········600.10
12S.OO
lSl.00
120.80
203.30
204 Salinas...................•··-·
1S3.SS
2S.OO
40.SO
32.40
SS.6S
20S Olivet.........................8S4.20
300.00
172.00
137.60
244.60
206 Stanislaus....·-·········--674.90
27S.OO
119.00
9S.20
185.70
207 Anaheim...•..............-..
292.45
12S.OO
49.SO
39.60
78.3S
208 Rio Vista.........·-···-····
823.ZS
32S.OO
147.SO
118.00
232.7S
King
Davids
..........•....
209
l,160.5S
3SO.OO
2SO.SO
200.40
3S9.6S
2Hl Friendship...................
272.20
7S.OO
62.00
49.60
85.60
211 San Benito..................
479.00
12S.OO
110.00
88.00
1S6.00
So.
San
Francisco
......
212
697.0S
13S.so·
2SO.OO
108.40
203.lS
214 San Buenaventura....
1,lSl.90
3S0.00
249.00
199.20
3S3.70
21S Oak Grove..................
762.10
100.00
211.00
168.80
282.30
Doric
.....................
,
....
216
418.20
17S.OO
72.00
S7.60
113.60
217 Monterey.....................
324.2S
100.00
67.SO
S4.00
102.7S
218 Mosaic·-······················
S83.2S
S0.00
167.SO
134.00
231.75
219 Speranza Italiana......
SS3.SS
2S0.00
90.SO
72.40
140.6S
Downey
..................•...•
220
320.00
17S.OO
40.00
32.00
73.00
221 Inyo......---··-····-········
627.10
200.00
131.00
104.80
191.30
222 Roseville.....................
42S.OO 1,136.60
216.00
172.80
322.80
Bakersfield
...........•...
:
..
224
9S8.9S
lS0.00
2S4.SO
203.60
3S0.85
22S Brooklyn...............•.....
S73.60
22S.OO
106.00
84.80
157.80
226 San Mateo...................
194.40
2S.OO
S4.00
43.20
72.20
228 Athens.........................
l,S38.1S
77S.OO
216.SO
173.20
373.4S
229 Solano..........................
326.4S
12S.OO
S9.SO
47.60
94.3S
230 North Butte...........- ..
123.7S
S0.00
22.SO
18.00
33.2S
Covelo
........................
231
173.4S
7S.OO
29.SO
23.60
4S.3S
232 Janesville..............•.....
132.9S
2S.OO
34.SO
27.60
4S.8S
233 Calistoga............•....- .•
239.7S
12S.OO
32.SO
26.00
56.25
Hope
....••.........
,
.....
·-····
234
198.80
100.00
28.00
22.40
48.40
23S Surprise Valley........•··
240.00
7S.OO
S0.00
40.00
7S.OO
236 Hills Ferry.................
138.lS
S0.00
26.SO
21.20
40.4S
Guadalupe
..................
~.
237
271.90
S0.00
69.00
SS.20
97.70
Colusa
..........................
240
797.60
17S.OO
196.00
1S6.80
269.80
241 Santa Ana...................
4S6.20
100.00
112.00
89.60
1S4.60
242 Magnolia..............-····
627.65
22S.OO
121.SO
97.20
183.9S
243 Eucalyptus...'...............

244 A!catraz....:1•••••••••••••••:
24S Laurel ..........................
246 Pomona.....................•.
247 Fresno.................·-····248 Alturas..................•.._ .
2SO Adin....-......................:.
2S3 Landmark..........- .......
2S4 Reading..............•••......
2SS Welcome...............·-···
2S6 Lodi........;.....................
2S8 Penrhyn......................
2S9 Evergreen...................
260 King Solomons..........
261 Tuscan.........................
262 Lompoc.........................
. ..........•........
264 H espertan
26S Orland..........................
266 North East.................
267 Galt..........................-..
268 Durant.........................
269 Olive Branch..............
271 Snow Mountain.........
272 Pasadena..........·-·········
273 Anchor......................_
274 Arroyo.........................
27S Oakdale.....................,.
277 Selma.......'.....- .......•.....
278 So. California.........._.
279 Hanford ......................
280 Madera....•....·-····-····281 Mount Shasta..~.·-······
282 Callayomi....................
283 South West.....-..........
28S San Miguel.................
286 Paso Robles ................
287 Winnedumah............••
288 Maxwell....- .........•......
289 Elsinore...._...........••....
29o East Gate..........- ......._
291 Santa Paula......•.........
292 Los Gatos................__
293 Orange Grove............
294 Traver.........................
29S Mt. Jackson ................
296 Silver Gate................297 Dunsmuir....................
299 Liberty•...·-················
300 Redlands ......................
301 Ontario........................
302 Sant\l Lucia....·-·········
303 Pprterville................304 Reedley........................
30S Azusa.......•...........••:.y..
306 Ashlar ..........................
307 Santa Monica......•......

Total

Fund
General

Malntenan•e
Home

Building
Home

Home Tu

313.9S
112.8S
183.SO
390.SS
93.3S
42.3S
5S.2S
108.70
8S.7S
201.0S
S7.8S
304.90
3S3.5S
46.lS
83.4S
140.7S
71.2S
38.8S
39.3S
362.20
136.7S
23.10
264.9S
202.0S
70.6S
7.3.15
109.0S
303.35
94.85
130.9S
33.20
32.SO
1Sl.3S
so.so
92.lS
78.20
3S.8S
86.9S
486.0S
183.90
1S2.60
127.70
68.0S
72.8S
439.9S
143.10
178.3S
238.3S
142.35
6S.SS
24S.50
90.00
127.7S
126.3S
146.70

177.20
67.60
108.00
218.80
SS.60
23.60
34.00
63.20
46.00
110.80
3S.60
170.40
210.80
28.40
4S.20
78.00
42.00
19.60
23.60
211.20
78.00
13.60
1S3.20
102.80
32.40
44.40
S4.80
175.60
Sl.60
6S.20 .
19.20
20.00
71.60
20.00
44.40
43.20
19.60
41.20
278.80
98.40
81.60
71.20
38.80
43.60
217.20
77.60
87.60
127.60
79.60
34.80
124.00
48.00
62.00
63.60
87.20

221.50
84.SO
13S.OO
273.SO
69.SO
29.SO
42.50
79.00
S7.SO
138.SO
44.SO
213.00
263.SO
3S.SO.
S6.SO
97.SO
S2.SO
f4.SO
29.SO
264.00
97.SO
17.00
191.50
128.SO
40.SO
SS.SO
68.SO
219.SO
64.SO
81.50
24.00
2S.OO
89.SO
2S.OO
SS.SO
S4.00
24.SO
Sl.50
348.SO
123.00
102.00
89.00
48.SO
S4.SO
271.SO
97.00
109.SO
1S9.SO
99.50
43.SO
lSS.00
60.00
77.SO
79.SO
109.00

937.6S
289.9S
476.SO
l,282.8S
243.4S
14S.4S
131.7S
27S.90
2S.OO
339.2S
lS0.00
67S.3S
22S.OO
137.9S
938.30
2SO.OO
902.8S
7S.OO
110.0S
28S.1S
100.00 '
466.2S
lS0.00
190.7S
2S.OO
157.9S
7S.OO
92.4S
1,012.40
17S.OO
462.2S
lS0.00
S3.70
684.6S
7S.OO
783.3S
3SO.OO
193.SS
S0.00
223.0S
S0.00
432.3S
200.00
848.4S
lS0.00
28S.9S
7S.OO
S02.6S
22S.OO
101.40
2S.OO
77.SO
637.4S
32S.OO
295.SO
200.00
442.0S
2S0.00
27S.40
100.00
104.9S
2S.OO
3S4.6S
17S.OO
27S.OO • l ,388.3S
630.30
22S.OO
Sl 1.20
17S.OO
437.90
lS0.00
180.3S
2S.OO
170.9S
1,978.6S
1,0S0.00
S42.70
22S.OO
. 300.00
67S.4S
7S0.4S
22S.OO
471.45
lS0.00
243.8S
100.00
899.SO
37S.OO
298.00
100.00
S17.2S
2S0.00
494.4S
22S.OO
392.90
S0.00

$25.00

22S.OO
25.00
S0.00
400.00
2S.OO
S0.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

150
Name of Ludge

308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
33+
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
.l45
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367

Monrovia.....................
Delano.·-·-··················
Sisson...·-···········-·······
Los Banos.'···········-····
Tehachapi..................•
Temescal.. ........ ·-···-···
Norwalk...................... ·
Sanger...·--··········--·····:
Fallbrook ....................
Emmanuel. ..................
HoHenbeck.......... -····South Gate...............-.
Alisa!. ......................-..
Alhambra....:......,........
Whittier......................
Corona.........·-···-····.,-·
Consuelo ......................
Needles ........................
Long Beach... ·-···········
Redondo Beach ..........
Vallee de France ........
.IGlauea........................
Pacific Grove.......·-····
San Pedro .................Alta..............................
Covina................ ·-····West Gate ..•................
Fruitvale.....................
Carquinez ................ _.
San Jacinto...~ .............
Fullerton ..~ ..................
Oxnard........................
San Fernando.............
Starr King ............•.....
Brentwood................- ·
Palo Alto................- .•
McKinley....................
S<\n Bernardino..........
Sequoia......................Palestine......................
Sunset..........................
Pinole..........................
Presidio....................Hollywood..................
Mill Valley................•
Buena Park. ................
Golden State....·-········
Loyal ton ... :..................
San Francisco ...........•
Fort Bragg................•
Charity......................Berkeley......................
Willits.................-····Las Palmas .................
South Pasadena.........

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General
~'und

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.60
Home Tax

137.85
107.35
55.90
82.85
95.40
97.15
96.35
145.00
33.85
50.80
706.30
386.75
71.70
271.90
317.00
264.40
103.85
155.45
335.05
219.80
78.15
128.35
108.50
307.60
45.95
141.60 .
528.55
s12.60
101.35
44.85
207.25
145.25
176.70
316.90
47.45
307.55
219.75
316.95
584.60
334.75
274.10
82.05
324.95
451.85
190.90
93.30
521.80
47.20
216.70
71.15
75.55
330.35
83.95
446.65
294.15

75.60
63.60
26.40
43.60
54.40
52.40
47.60
72.00
19.60
28.80
400.80
222.00
39.20
146.40
176.00
158.40
59.60
85.20
190.80
84.80
44.40
71.60
60.00
169.60
25.20
73.60
282.80
281.60
55.60
27.60
122.00
82.00
95.20
194.40
29.20
170.80
118.00
177.20
329.60
190.00
141.60·
46.80
193.20
267.60
114.40
48.80
292.80
27.20
127.20
36.40
42.80
183.60
49.20
248.40
172.40

94.50
79.50
33.00
54.50
68.00
65.50
59.50
90.00
24.50
36.00
501.00
277.50
49.00
183.00
220.00
198.00
74.50
106.50
238.50
106.00
55.50
89.50
75.00
212.00
31.50 .
92.00
353.50
352.00
69.50
34.50
152.50
102.50
119.00
243.00
36.50
213.50
147.50
2zi.50
412.00
237.50
p7.00
58.50
241.50
334.50
143.00
61.00
366.00
34.00
159.00
45.50
53.50
229.50
61.50
310.50
215.50

175.00
75.00
150.00
125.00
50.00
100.00
225.00
250.00
50.00
50.00
500.00
250.00
75.00
325.00
400.00
75.00
50.00
250.00
350.00
775.00
50.00 ,
200.00
125.00 .
375.00
25.00
275.00
725.00
525.00
125.00
100.00
175.00
200.00
25.00
250.00
275.00
250.00
475.00
275.00
450.00
25.00
100.00
175.00
75.00
150.00
400.00
25.00
75.00
100.00
50.00
300.00
50.00
300.00
150.00

Total

482.95
325.45
265.30
305.95
267.80
315.05
428.45
557.00
127.95
165.60
2,108.10
1,136.25
234.90
926.30
1,113.00
695.80
287.95
. 597.15
1,114.35
1,185.60
228.05
489.45
368.50
1,064.20
127.65
582.20
1;889.85
1,671.20
351.45
106.95
581.75
504.75
590.90
779.30
113.15
941.85
760.25
965.65
1,801.20
1,037.25
1,042.70
212.35
859.65
1,228.95
523.30
353.10
1,580.60
133.40
577.90
253.05
221.85
1,043.45
244.65
1,305.55
832.05

Name ot Lodge
368 UnitY-·····-········-··········
369 Ocean Park ................
370 Amity.......... - .............
371 le Progres de

l'Oceanie ..................
372 Gardena ...........·-·········
373 West Los Angeles.
374 ] ewe!................·--········
375 Richmond ....................
376 Francis Drake .......... 377 Artesia...... :..................
378 Mizpah:......................379 Fillmore.......... - ..........
380 Huntington Beach.....
381 Oceanside...........- .......
382 Highland Park. ..........
383 Orosi.................- ..........
384 El Centro.....................
385 Dinuba.........................
387 Coalinga....•.................
388 Parnassus ....................
389 Palos Verdes ..............
390 Imperial.. ............•........
391 East Belt.....................
392 West Lake ..................
393 Balder .......................
394 University.................•
395 Turlock .......................
396 Apolio ..........................
397 Rising Light...............
399 Fraternity...................
400 Burlingame...........- ....
401 Bay View .... '···········-··
402 Brawley•............. :........
403 Yerba Buena..............
404 Glendora ..................,. ...
405 Moneta........................
406 Burbank. ............. :.......
407 La Mosa......................
408 Sierra Madre ............ _
409 Honolulu .................- •.
410 ~harter Rock. ........... _
411 Perris...........................
412 Calexico .... - .................
413 Waucoba..........._........
414 Arlington .........·-····-··
415 Silver Trowel... .........
416 Lindsay.......................
417 Clovis..........................•
418 Elysian......................._
419 Upland ......................,..
420 Kerman ....................-.
421 Inglewood ...................
422 Eagle Rock. ................
423 York...........................•

151

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Bulldln1

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

257.95
233.05
3.06.05

137.20
118.80
174.80

171.50
148.50
218.50

350.00
350.00
200.00

916.65
850.35
• 899.35

324.00
118.45
155.30
91.90
364.40
137.30
53.75
248.80
104.25
165.95
87.40
278.40
59.75
187.45
139.75
184.55
401.80
363.75
58.15
47.30
633.30
306.95
324.00
134.30
244.25
437.30
253.30
305.90
257.45
87.75
350.85
57.20
420.30
289.65
137.30
43.55
157.75
240.30
54.80
89.20
26.00
214.20
183.20
101.70
166.20
279.45
96.10
40.80
239.35
193.50
138.00

144.00
61.20
80.80
50.40
214.40
72.80
30.00
132.80
58.00
97.20
46.40
158.40
30.00
109.20
70.00
98.80
236.80
198.00
28.40
24.80
360.80
177.20
184.00
72.80
138.00
216.80
144.80
154.40
125.20
46.00
179.60
35.20
232.80
120.40
56.80
26.80
86.00
136.80
28.80
51.20
16.00
115.20
107.20
55.20
91.20
157.20
53.60
20.80
119.60
100.00
72.00

180.00
900.00
76.50
200.00
101.00
200.00
63.00
125.00
268.00 . 175.00
91.00
175.00
37.50
50.00
166.00
250.00
72.50
150.00
121.50
50.00
58.00
75.00
198.00
175.00
37.50
125.00
136.50
100.00
87.50
275.00
123.50
125.00
296.00
125.00
247.50
425.00
35.50
75.00
31.00
25.00
451.00
400.00
221.50
175.00
230.00
225.00
91.00
150.00
172.50
175.00
271.00
825.00
181.00
250.00
193.00
575.00
156.50
475.00
57.50
100.00
224.50
550.00
44.00
291.00
350.00
150.50
850.00
71.00
450.00
33.50
107.50
125.00
171.00
175.00
36.00
100.00
64.00
75.00
20.00
144.00
200.00
134.00
125.00
69.00
75.00
114.00
150.00
196.50
200.00
67.00
100.00
26.00
50.00
149.50
400.00
125.00
325.00
150.00 90.00

1,548.00
456.15
537.10
330.30
1,021.80
476.10
171.25
797.60
384.75
434.65
266.80
809.80
252.25
533.15
572.25
531.85
1,059.60
1,234.25
197.05
128.10
1,845.10
880.65
963.00
448.10
729.75
1,750.10
829.10
1,228.30
1,014.15 .
291.25
1,304.95
136.40
1,294.10
1,410.55
715.10
103.85
476.25
723.10
219.60
279.40
62.00
673.40
549.40
300.90
521.40
833.15
316.70
137.60
908.45
743.50
450.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

152
Name of Lodge

424 Exeter.....- ..................
425 Holtville......................
426 Midway.......................
427 Chino Valley...............
428 San Dimas..................
429 ·Pittsburg...·-··········-···
430 McCloud...............·-···431 Alpha...........................
433 Hammonton,...............
434 Maricopa................••...
435 'Fairmount................_.
436 Claremont...................
437 Lancaster................-.•
438 Acacia.......................439 Tyrian..........·-···-······440 Standard......................
441 •Coronado................_...
442 Blackmer.....................
443 Schofield....- ...............
444 Carpinteria.................
445 Wilshire.....................•
446 LaPi.te~e....•...............
447 Torran ·····-··············
448 Mt. Diablo ...................
449 Park.....................·-···4SO Van Nuys....................
4Sl Montebello..................
4S2 San Pasqual...•......-....
4S3 Bethlehem..............•....
4S4 Crocker...·-··················
4SS Golden West...............
4S7 Ramona .......................
4S8 Henry S. Orme...·-····
4S9 Riverbank. ..................
460 Mount Oso................461 Argonaut.....................
462 Paul Revere...............
463 Morgan Hill...............
464 Alta Vista.............._...
465 Center..................•...•••.
466 Libertas.....- ................
467 Culver City............•...•
468 Rock ridge.........·-····-469 Yorba Linda........·-···
470 Lincoln....................•.-.
471 Delta.............·-····-··-··
472 Maui.............................
473 Blythe...............·-········
474 Victory..........•.......•_
47S America.................-....
476 Coachella....- ..........- ...
477 Temblor....................._
478 Thousand Oaks....·-···
479 Golden Ruic................
480 Fellowship..................

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Bulldlng

106.25
58.90
244.05
36.SO
89.2S
143.3S
73.00
. 2S2.SO
39.6S
99.90
329.40
S8.20
93.3S
39.00
67.4S
220.SO
137.3S
429.7S
145.70
SO.IS
320.SO
41.30
147.10
112.10
27S.7S
215.lS
172.3S'
228.S5
191.6S
199.7S
306.3S
1S8.35
337.6S
S6.40
141.00
2S0.60
282.0S
6S.40
172.3S
2Sl.40
198.45
13S.10
2S7.S5
SO.OS
164.8S .
216.70
94.SO
62.40
129.lS
249.80
S4.7S
67.60
230.7S
283.8S
137.90

58.00
34.40
134.80
20.00
42.00
63.60
40.00
148.00
24.40
S8.40
182.40
3S.20
47.60
24.00
37.20
116.00
71.60
206.00
79.20 .
28.40
188.00
24.80
77.60
61.60
1S8.00
108.40
87.60
130.80
112.40
110.00
17S.60
79.60
192.40
30.40
80.00
137.60
166.80
38.40
103.60
134.40
101.20
69.60
138.80
30.80
99.60
119.20
S2.00
22.40
76.40
132.80
30.00
41.60
118.00
147.60
74.40

72.50
43.00
168.SO
2S.OO
S2.SO
79.SO
S0.00
18S.OO
30.SO
73.00
228.00
44.00
S9.SO
30.00
46.SO
14S.OO
89.SO
2S7.50
99.00
3S.SO
235.00
31.00
97.00
77.00
197.SO
135.SO
109.SO
163.50
140.50
137.50
219.SO
99.50
240.SO
38.00
100.00
172.00
208.SO
48.00
129.SO
168.00
126.SO
87.00
173.SO
38.SO
124.50
149.00
65.00
28.00
9S.50
166.00
37.SO
S2.00
147.SO
184.50
93.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00

Home Tax

100.00
25.00
300.00
S0.00 .
2SO.OO
275.00
100.00
7S.OO
S0.00
300.00
2S.OO
lS0.00
2S.OO
7S.OO
300.00
12S.OO
97S.OO
lS0.00
2S.OO
2SO.OO
25.00
lS0.00
200.00
200.00
375.00
300.00
12S.OO
7S.OO
17S.OO
200.00
2SO.OO
27S.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
22S.OO
J2S.OO
2S.OO
S0.00
27S.OO
200.00
2SO.OO
300.00
2S.OO
200.00
100.00
27S.OO
S0.00
32S.OO
100.00
400.00
425.00
lS0.00

Total

336.75
161.30
847.35
131.50
433.75
S61.4S
263.00
660.SO
94.SS
281.30
1,039.80
162.40
350.4S
118.00
226.lS
781.50
423.4S
. l,868.2S
473.90
139.0S
993.50
122.10
471.70
4S0.70
831.25
834.0S
669.4S
647.8S
Sl9.5S
622.2S
901.4S
S87.4S
1,045.SS
174.80
396.00
78S.20
782.3S
176.80
455.4S
828.80
626.lS
S41.70
869.8S
119.3S
413.9S
684.90 .
311.SO
387.80
3Sl.OS
873.60
222.2S
161.20
896.ZS
1,040.9S
4SS.30 ·.

Name or Lod:e

Gcnerul
Fund

Home
Malntennnce

481 Mt. Davidson........•.~."
194.95
105.20
482 Clarence F. S~ith......
172.SO
100.00
483 Bell........:.....·-············171.70
87.20
484 Albert Pike-········-···· . 12S.6S
72.40
48S Chowchilla..................
49.80
28.80
486 Caledonia..................•..
172.7S
86.00
487 ·v allej o...·-················-·
188.7S
94.00
488 Patterson..................•..
S0.60
2S.60
489 East Bay......................
178.20
99.20
490 Corcoran.....................
62.0S
30.80
491 Woodstock.......•........_
14S.40
70.40
492 Garvanza....·-··············
127.6S
64.40
493 Atascadero.................
42.3S
23.60
494 Acorn ......................- ...
278.3S
143.60
49S Lebanon.......................
204.0S
118.80
496 . Riverdale.................._
38.10
21.60
497 Fremont................•....246.40
126.40
498 Stockton................•••.••
93.25
S0.00
499 Capital City............•..•
166.8S
83.60
soo Roosevelt................- .• 94.80
S2.80
SOl W estwocid...•......._:.....
126.80
68.80
S02 Harbor......................._
134.20
67.20
S03 Point......... n··········•······
67.S5
34.80
S04 Seaside......................._
208.SS
114.80
sos Silver Cord................. 190.00 112.00
S06 Mount Olive.............:.
SOS.20
2Sl.20
S07 El Segundo................
124.20
67.20
S08 Joppa..........................•
43.0S
22.80
S09 Benjamin Franklin....
170.20
83.20
SlO Cupertino....................
62.00
32.00
511 Sunnyvale•........•........•
109.3S
47.60•
Sl2 Palms....................•...•_
134.SO
68.00
513 Cahuenga...................•
204.i s
108.40
Sl4 Argonne...·-·····-·········
218.8S
131.60
SlS Vermont Square........
2S8.10
141.60
Sl6 Taft..............•.........•.-112.20
67.20
517 Mount Vernon..........•
138.3S
79.60
Sl8 La Jolla.....•...............•.
114.60
49.60
Sl9 Euclid..................•.._.
160.4S
93.20
S20 Ionic.........................._
272.6S
128.40
143.40
S21 Piedmont.....................
86.40
S22 Sunrise......•............•..••
1S6.4S
77.20
S23 Bellflower...................
1S3.00
72.00
S24 Catalina Island...........
73.60
41.60
S2S George Washington..
188.SS
106.80
S26 Bay City................._...
14S.SS
82.80
S27 Covenant.....................
180.30
96.80
S28 Beverly Hills..............
163.2S
90.00
S29 Loyalty..........- ............
169.7S
94.00
S30 Sun Garden,................
148.40•
274.lS
S31 Alexandria...............
76.lS
44.40
S32 Smyrna...............·-····22.00
39.7S
S33 Azure..........•....••.•...•••.•
106.70
63.20
S34 Forest Hill~...............38.80
72.0S

Home
Building

131.50
12S.OO
109.00
90.SO
36.00
107.SO
117.SO
32.00
124.00
38.SO
88.00
80.50
29.SO
179.SO
148.SO
27.00
1S8.00
62.SO
104.50
66.00
86.00
84.00
43.SO
143.SO
140.00
314.00
84.00
28.SO
104.00
40.00
S9.SO
8S.OO
13S.SO
164.SO
177.00
84.00
99.SO
62.00
116.SO
160.SO
108.00
96.SO
90.00
52.00
133.SO
103.SO
121.00
112.SO
117.SO
18S.SO
SS.SO
27.SO
79.00
48.SO

153
$25.00

Home Tax

Total

225.00
100.00
200.00
S0.00
S0.00

656.65
497.SO
S67.90
338.5S
164.60
S91.25
72S.2S
208.20
601.40
306.3S
6S3.80
497.°SS
14S.4S
l,026.4S
S21.3S
111.70
90S.80
330.7S
629.9S
313.60
431.60
S60.40
29S.85
691.8S
Sl7.00
1,970.40
4S0.40
144.3S
607.40
234.00
S66.4S
487.SO
723.0S
S89.9S
826.70
288.40
392.4S
626.20
420.lS
1,086.SS
387.80
60S.15
S40.00
217.20
SS3.8S
431.85
S98.10
S6S.7S
S81.2S
833.0S
201.0S
114.2S
323.90
234.3S

225.oo

32S.OO
100.00
200.00
175.00
3SO.Op
225.00

so.ob

42S.Ob
S0.00
2S.OO
37S.OO
12S.OO
27S.OO
100.00
lS0.00
27S.OO
150.00
22S.OO
75.00
900.00
175.00
S0.00
2SO.OO
100.00
3SO.OO
200.00
27S.OO
7S.OO
2SO.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
400.00
S0.00
S2S.OO
S0.00
27S.OO
22S.OO
S0.00
12S.OO
100.00
200.00
200.00
200.00
22S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
7S.1l0
7S.OO

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

154
Name or Lodge

535 Alexander Hamilton.
536 Seal Rock ....................
537 'Utopia .......................•.. ·
538 Ascot............................
539 Belvedere,....................
540 Queen Beach...............
541 H. M. Stephens ....._...
S42 Lankershim .................
543 Signal ..........................
S44 Glendale .................:.....
54S Jona than.'··············-···· ·
546 San Gabriel... ..............
S47 Arcadia........................
S48 Triangle.'.................c•••
549 Justice...... ,...................
550 Seaport.... ·-···········-··551 Lakeshore...................
552 Semper Virens...........
S54 Educator.....................
S55 White Pine........... _.....
S56 Fairfax~ .......................
557 Hermosa......................
558 Pt. Firmin........:..........
559 Craftsman...................
560 Plymouth ....................
561 E. San Diego ..............
. 562 Pyramid ......................
563 South Park. ................
564 Foothill......................• ·
565 West Adams ...............
S66 James A. Garfield......
S67 Searchlight.................
S68 Park Blvd ....................
569 Chateau Thierry ........
570 Military Service.........
571 Francis K. Shattuck ..
572 James Madison...........
573 Hillcrest.......................
574 S. W. Hackett... .........
575 Fort Crook .................
576 El Cajon Valley.........
577 Sunnyside ................ _.
578 Progressive................
579 Warren G. Harding..
S80 Santa Maria ...............
S81 Security.......................
S82 Rialto .................•.........
583 Wasco..........................
584 Ha.rding.......................
585 Manchester .................
586 Garden Grove .......... _
587 Valley Forge..............
588 El Sereno ....... ! ............
589 Kauai ...........................
590 Compass........... _.........

General
~'und

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

86.35
105.45
340.50
199.90
139.90
84.25
196.35
224.20
196.95
230.55
102.60
124.15
90.70
89.lS
123.10
106.70
132.70
93.70
172.60
61.00
83.50
88.10
183.85
202.55
184.20
327.00
146.50
230.00
171.70
147.45
96.70
232.60
17S.60
1S6.95
19S.70
130.85
116.05
34.45
161.15
59.35
41.10
195.30
207.00
184.60
S2.15
169.80
63.60
106.25
96.95
174.15
67.55
172.95
156.45
63.15
105.75

47.60
5.3.20
180.00
90.40
74.40
42.00
Hl.60
107.20
lOS.20
122.80
S7.60
60.40
47.20
44.40
61.60
63.20
71.20
55.20
97.60
32.00
44.00
45.60
99.60.
90.80
83.20
128.00
76.00
120.00
95.20
77.20
55.20
121.60
89.60
81.20
95.20
67.20
62.80
21.20
76.40
31.60
21.60
96.80
112.00
73.60
20.40
84.80
33.60
58.00
57.20
84.40
34.80
81.20
77.20
36.40
54.00

59.50
66.50
225,00
113.00
93.00
52.50
139.50
134.00
131.50
1S3.SO
72.00
7S.SO
S9.00
SS.SO
77.00
79.00
89.00
69.00
122.00
40.00
SS.00
S7.00
124.SO
113.SO
104.00
160.00
9S.OO
150.00
119.00
96.50
69.00
152.00
112.00
101.50
119.00
84.SO
.78.SO
26.SO
9S.SO
39.50
27.00
121.00
140.00
92.00
25.50
106.00
42.00
72.50
71.50
lOS.50
43.SO
101.50
96.SO
45.50
67.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00

Home Tax

Total

125.00
175.00
400.00
400.00
125.00
· 150.00
150.00
S2S.OO
275.00
300.00
75.00
200.00
150.00
200.00
225.00
50.00
175.00
25.00
100.00
7S.OO
12S.OO
7S.OO
225.00
425.00
325.00
1,100.00
225.00
325.00
200.00
200.00
100.00
32S.OO
300.00
300.00
3SO.OO
250.00
125.00

318.45
400.15
1,145.50
803.30
432.30
328.75
597.45
990.40
708.6S
806.8S
307.20
460.0S
346.90
389.0S
486.70
298.90
46°7.90
242.90
492.20
208.00
307.50
265.70
632.9S
831.8S
696.40
1,71S.OO
. S42.SO
825.00
585.90
521.15
320.90
831.20
677.20
639.65
759.90
532.9S
382.3S
82.lS
933.0S
230.4S
164.70
738.10
634.00
950.20
223.05
635.60
239.20
361.75
275.65
739.05
245.8S
75S.6S
655.1S
19S.OS
377.25

600.00
100.00
75.00
325.00
175.00
600.00
125.00
27S.OO
100.00
12S.OO
S0.00
375.00
100.00
400.00
325.00
50.00
150.00

Name or Lodge

t

591 Escalon..'···················592 Tujunga...: ...................
593 All States ................- ..
594 Service................. _......
595 Alexander G. Bell......
596 Guardian... ·-···············
598 Pearl Harbor.............
S99 Carmelita.................•..
600 Lynwood.....................
601 Grizzly........•................
602 Melrose......................603 Dimond..........·-···-······
604 Jubilee..........................
60S Glassell Park............ 607 Sojourner....................
608 Granada.......................
609 Provident. ...................
610 Elmhurst .....................
611 Canoga ........................
612 Temple City...............
613 Three Pilla1·s ..............
614 Larchmont. ...:.............
615 Hemet. .................•.......
616 R. E. Dolley...............
617 Big Bear ......................
618 Southland.........·-·-··619 Neptune.......................
620 Point Loma .... _ ..........
621 The Gardens ...............
622 Atwater .......................
623 Menorah......................
624 Fortitude.....................
625 Angeles Mesa....·-·····
626 Chula Vista.................
627 Lamanda Park...........
628 Truth .........................
629 Fairview......................
630 Ingleside......................
631 Benevolence..... _.........
632 N o.rmal eights ........
633 Pomsett1a....................
634 Victorville.................•
635 Riverside .....................
636 John Marshall .... ·-·····
637 Palisades.....................
638 Indian Rock ................
639 Composite...................
640 Veritas ..........:........6..641 James A. Foshay.......
642 La Cumbre ..................
643 Alta Loma..................
644 Lomita.......................,..
64S A. F. E. Irwin ............
646 Metropolitan..............
647 Hawthorne................•

!f

155

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Home Tax

Total

46.80
117.70
201.90
211.60
120.15
325.30
262.70
140.80
108.SO
79.7S
87.40
129.70
117.30.
180.8S
49.50
234.60
160.70
94.85
75.20
85.45
140.15
143.25
65.20
63.75
36.50
140.4S
80.lS
117.95
137.10
132.80
273.55
111.80
246.00
84.60
71.00
107.05
99.20
75.4S
158.7S
181.7S
228.05
57.60
130.90
64.55
153.65
104.85
119.80
68.50
89.95
64.85
163.20
100.3S
122.30
56.45
95.00

28.80
55.20
106.40
121.60
68.40
120.80
95.20
76.80
S2.00
38.00
46.40
71.20
64.80
91.60
28.00
121.60
71.20
51.60
43.20
4S.20
76.40
74.00
3S.20
30.00
20.00
69.20
44.40
49.20
77.60
68.80
138.80
52.80
128.00
41.60
40.00
62.80
43.20
37.20
78.00
78.00
126.80
33.60
66.40
34.80
80.40
51.60
60.80
36.00
41.20
3S.60
91.20
39.60
64.80
29.20
32.00

36.00
69.00
133.00
152.00
85.50
151.00
119.00
96.00
6S.OO
47.50
58.00
89.00
81.00
114.50
35.00
152.00
89.00
64.SO
S4.00
S6.SO
9S.SO
92.50
44.00
37.50
25.00
86.50
55.50
61.50
97.00
86.00
173.50
66.00
160.00
S2.00
S0.00
78.50
54.00
46.50
97.50
97.50
158.50
42.00
83.00
43.50
100.SO
64.SO
76.00
4S.OO
51.50
44.50
114.00
49.50
81.00
36.50
40.00

25.00
275.00
350.00
300.00
. 75.00
1,375.00
1,150.00
27S.OO
27S.OO
200.00
12S.OO
12S.OO
12S.OO
2SO.OO
50.00
350.00
400.00
125.00
75.00
100.00
125.00
225.00
125.00
150.00
25.00
250.00
100.00
350.00
150.00
250.00
475.00
225.00
300.00
175.00
25.00
50.00
350.00
125.00
275.00
500.00
350.00
25.00
150.00
75.00
200.00
175.00
225.00
75.00
250.00
25.00
100.00
325.00
12S.OO
100.00
425.00

136.60
516.90
791.30
785.20
349.05
1,972.10
1,626.90
S88.60

$25.00

smso

36S.2S
316.80
414.90
388.10
636.9S
162.50
858.20
720.90
335.95
247.40
287.15·
437.0S
S34.7S
269.40
281.2S
106.SO
S46.1S
280.05
578.65
461.70
537.60
1,060.85
455.60
834.00
3S3.20
186.00
298.3S
S46.40
284.lS
609.2S
8S7.25
863.35
158.20
430.30
217.85
534.55
395.9S
481.60
224.SO
432.6S
169.9S
468.40
S14.4S
393.10
222.15
592.00

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

156
Name of Lodge

648 Damascus_..................
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659

660
661
662
663
665

666
667

668
669
670
671

672
673
674
675
676

677
678
679
680
681
682
683
684

Florence........:.............
La Brea.,.............·-···Menlo Park.................
Crescenta Valley ........
F dntana...._. __ :...........
Jotdart.- .......................
Monte Vista...........:...
Citro!...........................
John D. Spreckels....•
Livingston................ _.
La Habra....................
Baldwin Park........._.
Malta..'·············-····-···
Henry Knox ........-:....
Ojai.........................l.:..
Kaweah.......................
Reseda.: ....·-··-·······-····
Meridian.....................
San Gorgonio.............
John P. Jarman..........
Greenleaf................_:...
San Clemente..........-'
Laguna Beach............
Far West...._...............
Los Cerritos....·-···-····
.Modesto.......................
Willow Glen...·-·········
Liberal Arts..............•
Altadena...·-················
Canby Cross........- .....
Carmel....- ...................
Dos Palos:;...............
Barstow.....·-············
Redwood Empire.. .
Trona........................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Home Tax

163.75
169.50
130.60
60.35
81.35
53.65
116.00
236.50
115.85
256.80
42.65
64.45
56.60
80.15
194.00
32.85
42.30
80.80
125.45
73.15
109.70
165.50
25.45
64.75
114.10
93.10
151.70
82.20
58.95
148.90
53.30
51.30
38.90
43.05
14.00
50.90

86.00
84.00
73.60
31.60
47.60
32.40
56.00
108.00
51.60
124.80
24.40
37.20
25.60
44.40
96.00
19.60
24.80
36.80
69.20
36.40
47.20
84.00
13.20
30.00
61.60
45.60
71.20
43.20
33.20
74.40
24.80
24.80
18.40
22.80
8.00
18.40

107.50
105.00
92.00
39.50
59.50
40.50
70.00
135.00
64.50
156.00
30.50
46.50
32.00
55.50
120.00
24.50
31.00
46.00
86.50
45.50
59.00
105.00
16.50
37.50
77.00 '
57.00
89.00
54.00
41.50
93.00
31.00
31.00
23.00
28.50
10.00
23.00

582.25
225.00
683.50
325.00
39620
100.00
206:45'
75.00
238.45
50.00
176.55
50.00
442,00
200.00
1,079.50
600.00
506.95
275.00
525.00
1,062.60
122.55
25.00
223.15
75.00
239.20
125.00
i55.o5
75.00
735.00
325.00
101.95
25.00
148.10
50.00 .
225.00 . ' 388.60
381.15
100.00
305.05
150.00
615.90
400.00
654.50
300.00
130.15
75.00
382.25
250,00
402.70
150.00
395.70
200.00
"736.90
425.00
304.40
125.00
233.65
100.po
616.30
300.00
284.10
175.00
182.10
75.00
180.30
100.00
169.35
75.00
32.00
267.30
175.00

$900.40

$446.40

$558.00 $1,900.00

157

$25.00

Total

$3,804.80

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws reports fifty-five Lodges amended their
by-laws during the year.
Three Lodges increased their fees: Burbank Lodge No. 406 to $75.00,
Guardian Lodge No. 596 to $75.00, and East San Diego Lodge No. 561 to
$75.00.
Four Lodges increased their dues: Yount Lodge No. 12 to $18.00,
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444 to $12.00, Garvanza Lodge No. 492 to $12.00,
and Indian Rock Lodge No. 638 to $15.00.
Ten Lodges decreased their fees: Keith Lodge No. 187 to $30.00,
Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192 to $50.00, Magnolia Lodge No. 242 to $50.00,
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 to $50.00, Highland Park Lodge No. 382 to
$50.00, Glendora Lodge No. 404 to $30.00, Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448 to
$50.00, Lincoln Lodge No. 470 to $50.00, Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528 to
$75.00, and La Cumbre Lodge No. 642 to $50.00.
One Lodge decreased its dues : Olive Branch Lodge No. 269 to $12.00.
Two Lodges adopted an affiliation fee of $5.00: Burbank Lodge No.
406 and Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. Maricopa Lodge No. 434 eliminated
its affiliation fee.
Eleven Lodges changed their meeting place: San Diego Lodge No. 35,
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286, Brawley Lodge No. 402, Yerba Buena Lodge
No. 403, Torrance Lodge No. 447, Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509,
Signal Lodge No. 543, Lakeshore Lodge No. 551, S. W. Hackett Lodge
No. 574, All States Lodge No. 593 and John Marshall Lodge No. 636.
Fourteen Lodges changed their time of meeting : Hawaiian Lodge No.
21, Alameda Lodge No. 167, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Fruitvale Lodge
No. 336, Honolulu Lo~ge No. 409, Schofield Lodge No. 443, Maui Lodge
No. 472, Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509, Lakeshore Lodge No. ·551,
Kauai Lodge No. 589, Granada Lodge No. 608, La Habra Lodge No. 659,
Signal Lodge No. 543, and Menlo Park Lodge No. 651.
. (The five Lodges in Hawaii are now meeting during daylight hours.)

To!al due....... ........ $91,124.55 49,098.80 61,373.50 108,700.00 310,296.85

The report was adopted.

Seven Lodges amended their by-laws to except holidays as stated
meeting dates: Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57, Humboldt Lodge No. 79,
Dinuba Lodge No. 385, Burbank Lodge No. 406, La Mesa Lodge No. 407,
Cupertino Lodge No. 510, and Arcadia Lodge No. 547.
Two Lodges-Sacramento No. 20 and Mountain View Lodge No. 194
-revised their entire set of by-laws and covered by standing resolutions
provisions for Certificates of Life Membership and the appointment and
jurisdiction of Boards of Trustees. We commend the completeness of their
work and urge that other Lodges review their by-laws and modernize them
where necessary.
All amendments to by-laws submitted by the fifty-five Lodges were
in proper form, certified and in accord with Masonic Law and received
the approval of the Grand Master.

158

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We move the adoption of this report approving the amendments
covered herein.
Respectfully submitted,
OAKLEY K. MORTO~,
Juuus GABRIEL,
c. E. LISTENWALTER,
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY,
WILLIAM A. SHERWIN,
HERSCHEL B. GREEN,
WILLIAM E. PROVENCE,
Committee.

The report was adopted.

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
· Following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements . of the
Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc., for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1942:
Receipts
October 1, 1941, balance on hand (cash and securities) ............ ;...$ 94,100.51
From rentals .......................... :.........................,...................$45,131.50
From interest and dividends .............................................. ·4,545.91
From sale of junk......................., .......................,................
100.37
49,777.78
$143,878.29

Disbursements
Taxes, real. estate ..................................................................$ 8,249.10
Taxes, old age security........................................................
222.39
Taxes, unemployment ........................................................
356.87
Expense .................................................................................. 6,486.97
Improvements ...................................................................... 3,098.71
Insurance, war .damage........................................................ 1,072.64
Insurance, fire and casualty..............................................
235.86
Dividends .................................................................... ~......... 9,875.92
Salaries .................................................................................. 10,946.24
Bills payable .......................................................:..................
250.00
Electric light and power submetering a/c.................... 1,055.72

41,850.42

September 30, 1942, balance on hand (cash and securities) .... $102,027.87
MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNIA, ~NC.,
F. C. RUPPEL, Secretary.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

159

REPORT OF SPECIAL TAXATION COMMITTEE
To the Most W o~ shiPfitl Grand Lodge of California:
This committee has functioned since its appointment pursuant to resolution of the 89th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge in 1938. The
members of the committee for the year 1942 have been:
R. P. Wisecarver, chairman, Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478.
James E. Hammond, Park Boulevard Lodge No. 508.
Walter Perry Johnson, California Lodge No. 1.
Essentially there has been no change in the tax situation during the
current year and we confirm our recommendations contained in last year's
report of the committee to be found in the 1941 proceedings of Grand
Lodge, page 669.
During the year the committee has held several meetings and we have
been in immediate and constant touch with the office of the Grand Secretary. Many queries from subordinate Lodges have been answered. Generally speaking, the tax status of subordinate Lodges has been stabilized.
Grand Lodge has been making returns and paying the Old Age
Security Tax. The status of Grand Lodge with reference to unemployment reserves has not been so clear. We bave cooperated with the federal
government with respect to federal unemployment taxes during the year
and have paid taxes and penalties in the amount of $522.17, in arrears to
June 30, 1940. This became necessary due to a change in interpretation
of the law by the federal government. The Federal Act was amended
June 30, 1940, and since that date no return or payment has been made
for federal unemployment .taxes. The committee has been investigating
whether a return since June 30, 1940, should not have been made under
the State Employment Act, and the final decision on that question has
not yet been rendered. The questions at issue are whether the Grand Lecturer is an administrative or ritualistic officer, and whether the Grand Tyler
is an employee subject to tax.
Recent additions to the clerical staff make it probable that Grand
Lodge is at the present time under the State Act.
An appropriation should be set aside in the amount of approximately
$1200.00 to cover any possible liability of Grand Lodge for past State
Unemployment Reserves.
Recent revenue enactments by Congress have not yet become available to us. As soon as we have had opportunity to study these enactments
a special report will be made to the Grand Master if any changes affecting
Masonic Lodges are indicated. There are also before Congress many contemplated changes in the revenue laws, but comment should not be made
on those until final action has been taken.
From our contact with the tax situation we are of the opinion that
many technical questions will arise requiring the attention of a special
committee during the coming year, and we therefore recommend the continuance of the committee for the ensuing Masonic year.
Respectfully submitted,
R. P. WISECARV.ER, Chairman,

J.E. HAMMOND,
WALTER PERRY JOHNSON,
Committee.

160

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

161

The report was adopted with the exception of that part of
the report dealing with an appropriation, which was referred
to the Committee on Finance.
The following resolutions were received:

3Jn ®ranb JLobge

From Ionic Lodge No. 520, to classify members of the United
States Merchant Marine as members of the armed forces for
purposes of registering them in the Grand Lodge office and for
the purpose of issuing war service certificates. The resolution
was referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
From George Washington Lodge No. 525, amending Sections
298 and 308 of the Constitution and Regulations. The resolution
was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Because of the unavoidable absence of the Grand Chaplain,
the Grand Master requested Very \V orshipful Lloyd E. Wilson
to invoke the blessin~ of the Supreme Grand Master.

Unfinished Business

The Grand Secretary read the Minutes of Tuesday's sessions, which were approved as read.

The Grand Secretary reported the following two. items of
unfinished business :

REPORT OF WAR SERVICE COMMITTEE

The recommendation of .the Grand Master at the 92d annual
communication, relative to the Committee on Finandng Building Projects and the resolution presented at that same communication, by the Grand Master, relative to the date of the
Annual Communication.
Past Grand Master, Robert B. Gaylord, Chairman of the
War Activities Committee, presented his report, including a
recommendation that the "committee be continued, and the report
was adopted. The report is incorporated in the report on Constitution Month Observance which appears on page 330.
At 4 :45 p. m. Grand Lodge was called off. until 10 :00 a. m .
\V ednesday morning.

MORNING SESSION
Wednesday, October 'i4, 1942.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 a. m., the Grand Master
presiding.

The report was presented by Matthew Morton, Jr., executive
vice chairman of the committee, in the unavoidable absence of
Mark A. Pierce, chairman.
Brother ·Morton prefaced his report with the following
remarks:
·
"Before giving the formal part of this report, I 'would like to say to
the brethren that the report might rightfully be termed 'The Old Army
Sergeants' Report.' Our Most Worshipful Grand Master was a sergeant
in the Army in the First World War, our Very Worshipful Grand Secretary was. also a sergeant in the First World War and I , myself, was a
sergeant m that war. I suppose that this is the only time when two old
Army sergeants have run Grand Lodge and I know that most of you hope
it will be the last time. (Laughter and applause.) I now present the
formal report of the committee."
T o the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic War Service Committee herewith presents its report
for your consideration.
This committee was formed by the Grand Master as set forth in his
proclamation of May 21, 1942, wherein he appointed Mark A. P ierce, Pas t
Master of Sunset Lodge No. 352, chairman; Matthew Morton, Jr., Past
Master of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410, as executive vice chairman and
Lloyd E . Wilson, Past Grand Master, and Grand Secretary as secr~tary
of the committee.
'
The purpose of the committee, as defined by the Grand Master was
to develop a program of service to Masons in the armed forces ;nd a
program of assistance and relief to the members of their families when
and if such assistance became needed.
There are at the present time 3,602 member~ of California Lodges in
the armed forces and there are tens of thousands of Masons in all the
armed ~orces and they range in rank from private to general, from seaman
to admiral. How best to serve these men and at the same time to conserve

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the resources of Grand Lodge while carrying out the program adopted at
the last communication is the problem of this committee and the one to
which we have addressed ourselves.
Careful consideration has been given to the Masonic Service Center
program and the Masonic Service Association 'and it is the opinion of this
committee that the same represents a duplication of existing facilities now
offered by other organization s and that the activities of this committee and
of this Grand Lodge should be directed along other lines. What those
activities are, will be set forth in this report.
This committee is of the opinion that Lodges ought to make information available to men in the armed forces wherever possible, relative to
Lodge meetings and Lodge functions of every kind and character. Excellent progress has been made in this direction in Long Beach, San Diego,
Fresno and Oakland and it is recommended that other sections of the
state formulate similar plans where posters and announcements carrying
information concerning Lodge affairs can be displayed in prominent places
for the benefit of those men.
There is also a need in some sections of the state for Masonic Information Bureaus such as are operating in San Diego and in Fresno and we
recommend that this program be expanded where a sound survey of the
situation reveals such need.
It is becoming apparent that Lodges near army camps are alert to the
necessity of expanding their Lodge meetings and Lodge functions to
include service men and it is also apparent that in the case of small Lodges,
they cannot be expected to bear the total expense from their own funds.
We therefore recommend that the Service Committee be given authority
to authorize such expenditures or to reimburse Lodges for such 'expenditures after the same has been approved by the Grand Master. We have
already approved the expenditure of $107.61 for subsidizing entertainment
for service men to Paso Robles Lodge No. 288.
We have been of the opinion that there may arise cases of need in the
families of our California Masons who are in the service and we therefore .
prepared forms and sent them to the Lodges with the request that the
Service Committees of Lodges make· investigations of conditions prevailing
in the families of service men and to report them to this committee. Up to
date there have b een few such cases, but with the extension of the war
program and the calling of now deferred classes in the very near future,
it is entirely possible that as time goes on this will develop into a real
need and if such is the case, it is our opinion that the expenditure of funds
for relief in cases directly attributable to the war is a justified expenditure.
We are at the present time extending relief in one case in the amount
of $25.00 per month to the wife of an out-of-state Mason, internee of a
Japanese prison, and $60.00 per month to the wife and four children of
a member of Manila Lodge No. !',who is interned in the Philippine Islands.
These cases have had thorough investigation and have been approved by
the committee and by the Grand Master.
There have been arriving at San Francisco, San Diego and San Pedro
ships ,b earing sick, wounded and refugee men, women and children. Among
these are Masons and their dependents and as time goes on this is likely
to increase and we should be prepared to render any Masonic service to
them. Your committee has therefore arranged .with the Naval and military
authorities to pass a carefully selected committee of eight men at each
port to act as representatives of this committee on the docks to render this

163
service and we feel
"t
.
·
valuable service Theq~e~ ·~ertafmh~hat it will prove to be an extremely
public.
.
a1 s o t i.s operation naturally cannot be made
There have been established . C 1"f
.
.
'
pitals and both sick and wou d in a' orma many Army and Navy hosable that there will be man n ~d men are rapidly filling them. It is inevit:.
pared to serve them on a p;rel/~ns a~ong .these and we should be . preWe have conferred with the pro e~s~n1c. bas1~ wherever such need arises.
and have received their unqualifi~d ffic1al\ In charge of these hospitals
key man in each of these hospital t approva for a plan of appointing
It will be the function of th '
st o serve as the Masonic contact man
. th .
.
Is con act man to kno
h
h
.·
"f
. w w o t e Masons artr
m
ese hospitals and to dete ·
Masonic brethren could perfor~mm~hI the~e is any service which their
these hospitals carrying flowers .
ere will be no committees to visit
authorities definitely frown u ' ~~?dy or .tobacco, because the hospitai
feel it is a proper service for ~~?s is p:actice and we, ourselves, do not
that these men are not ind"
t c~mm1ttee. It should be borne in mind
respecting men and as far a~g~nei~ ~:t t~e3i., are s~lf-supporting and selfonly that fraternal assistance in
son~c odge is concerned, they want
would normally extend to the ca~es .o .emergency which their Lodge
through the courtesy of Capt .m. F ~ I~d1cate. progress, we report that
the Naval Hospital, Treasure t:~nd. a .
cDamel, commanding officer of
we have selected as our re resen : member of a South Carolina Lodge,
chief pharmacist's mate whp . tahves at that base, Brother H. G Stipp·
h"
•
01s amemberi Ill" ·
·
'
is degrees in Naval Lodge at V ll . A hn
mo1s, althougl). he received
land, Ensign R. V . Thompson ~ e10. b t t e Oak Knoll Hospital, in OakOakland, has been designated' ou;nem er of s.tandard Lodge No. 440, of
ceeding favorably at Mate Isl d ~epresentabve. Negotiations are .proPresidio and will soon be und an ' oroSna, B.yron Hot Spr ings and the
th' 1
er way at an Diego
d L
B
an . o~g each, when
is atter hospital is completed, scheduled f
I h
.
or some time m December
t as been the policy of this commi
.
upon well-developed plans. It has not b ttee to p;ocee~ slowly and only
launch a complete program all t
~en our mtent10n to attempt to
develop as conditions justif
d a one time, but rather to permit it to
~hat what h~s been done i/;,,:~ fo:~J=~pectfull.y subm~t this. r eport feeling
mg the service as conditions require.
and with the mtent1on of expand-

a

y our committee is of the
· ·
··
is finally written, the names of :~~ion that wh:n th~ hist?ry of this., war
as those who have given the last
~::~:rs will shmc; bright with glory,
. . e of ~evotion, to preserve fo~
us and for posterity the sacred
the pursuit of happin'ess. Let us naontdf l?lalh1enable right to life, liberty apd
a1 t ese men now.
.
R espectfully submitted

£uh

.

'

MATTHEW MORTON, ]R.,

Executive Vice Chairman
U7ar Service Committee.'

!he report was adopted and referred ' to the
P o licy and G
enera 1 p urposes and the Deput G Committee on
asked to meet with them in joint ' session. y rand Master was

164

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

165

cargo were promptly burned, and for many years all ships arriving at
the port were examined for Masonic literature.

REPORT ON PHILIPPINE ISLANDS L ODGES
Most .W orshipful Grand Master
and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
The audacious and treacherous attack on Pearl Harbor by the Japanese in the early morning hours of December 7, 1941, changed the
course of history. As an integral part of this movement, and five thousand miles to the southwest, the land forces of the Imperial _Japanese
Government, under the protection of powerful Naval and Air forces,
landed on the north, south and southeast coasts of the Island of Luz~:m,
the largest island of the Philippine Archip~lago. The overwhelmmg
numerical superiority of the enemy enabled him to force the stub?ornly
resisting American-Philippine forces to retire to the Bataan 'Penm~ula.
These troops, with their brothers-in-arms ~n the fortres.s of Cor~egidor,
fought with such courage and valor that 111 defeat their acts w1l~ .ever
remain one of the most glorious chapters in the annals of m1htary
history.
Desiring to protect the city of Manila from unnecessary d.estruction
and aid the civilian population in escaping the . horrors of aerial attack,
General Douglas MacArthur, Commander of the American-Philipp!n.e
forces declared Manila an open city. All military forces and the c1v1l
gover~ment having been removed, the Japanese occupied the city on
January 2, 1942.
The fall of the city of Manila, so Ear as we have been able to learn,
caused the cessation of activities on the part of the Masonic Grand Lodge
of the Philippine Islands, thus adding another chapter to the long and
eventful history of Masonry in the Archipelago.
Prior to the American occupation of the Islands in 1898, the history
of Masonry in that section was one of suspicion, intolerance and persecution. The earliest reference to Masonry is an incident that occurred
in the year 1756. In that year James O'Kenn~dy, a merchant, and . E~­
ward Wigat, a physician, were tried by the Tribunal of the J:loly Inquisition for being members of the Fraternity. They were acquitted.
On September 22, 1762, a British expedition reached M~ni!a Bay,
and on October 5 captured the city. By the Treaty of Pans 111 1763,
Manila was restor~d to Spain. It is believed that the occupational force
established an English Military L odge. This belief is based upon evidence
that the Archbishop of the Diocese of Manila complained of the local
Cathedral being desecrated by the English holding Masonic meetings
there and proposed that "the edifice be burned in order to purify it."
There is no evidence to show, that the Archbishop's proposal was
followed.
A half century passed before another reference to Mason~y is found.
On January 12, 1812, the Council of the Regency of Spam a~d t~~
Indies issued a royal decree placing a bar on the order and ordermg its
members expelled from their positions and .their property con?scated.
On August 1, 1824, King Ferdinand VII, ~ssued . ~ decr~e. agamst the
fraternity, making the penalty of membership, P?httca.l, c1v1l and ~ccle­
siastical excommunication. In the year 1829, a slup arrived at the city of
Manila and in its cargo the port authorities found, among other books,
several' copies of "Preston's Illustrations of Masonry." The books and

The first American Mason in the Islands was George W. Hubbell,
o~ Bridgeport, Connecticut. He was t he American Consul. Following
his death on May 21, 1831, his friends ordered a monument erected to
his memory. The monument was made, but the objection of the Friars
prevented its erection, and it remained in a warehouse from 1831 to 1898
where it was found by the American forces and erected in the Plaz~
~ervantes, in the city of Manila. This monument was standing at the
time of the Japanese occupation.
In 1856 the first chartered Lodge in the Islands was organized. T he
charter was issued by the Grand Lodge of Portugal, and the name
adopted was Logia Primera Luz Filipina. Thirty-five years passed before
~nother Lodge was chartered. January 6, 1891, Nilad Lodge was organized under the jur isdiction of the Grand Orient of Spain. The word
"N'ilad" is from the Tagalog language (the language of the natives of
the Island of Luzon) and means "place where the Nilad p lant is found."
It was from this word that the name " Manila" was derived.
Political conditions becoming increasingly intolerable during the
unrest developed among the people,
and m 1896 a revolutionary plot was discovered. The friars and military
accused Masonry of being entirely responsible for the movement, and
ordered the arrest · of twelve of its leaders. Dr. Jose Rizal, Masonic
leader and writer, was executed December 30, 1896. Twelve days later,
January 11.' 1897, the eleven others were executed, including one who had
to be earned to the place of execution because of broken limbs as the
result of torture.
latte~ part of the nin~teenth centur'y,

The following year, 1898, the United States government was established on the Islan.ds and under its protecting hand religious and political
freedo~ were guaranteed. Suspicion and intolerance rapidly disappeared,
and friendly understanding among the various groups became the established order. Under these happy conditions sixteen brethren of Manila
petitioned the Grand Lodge of California for a charter. July 4, 1901,
Grand Master Foshay issued a di spensation. A chart er was granted
October 10, 1901, and thus came into existence Manila Lodge No. 342 of
the Grand Jurisdiction of California. October 18, 1902, Grand Master
Wells, at the request of the brethren of Cavite, issued a dispensation for
for a Lodge in that city. A chart er was granted October 15 1903 and
Cavite Lodge No. 350 became a part of this Grand Jurisdictlon. Membership increased so rapidly in Manila t hat by 1907 it was apparent that
another Lodge was necessary. Grand Master Hart issued a dispensation
February 19, 1907, and a charter on October 10 the same year for
Corregidor Lodge No. 386.
'
The influx of. Americans into the Islands and the increase of the
popularity of the fr aternity among th e Filipinos caused the Lodges to
g'.o~ and prosper. December 19, 1912, the three Lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California withdrew from our obedience
and established t he Grand Lodge of the Philippine Isla nds . .
Under the leadership and direction of a distinguished line of Grand
Ma_sters, Maso~ry spread to all parts of the Archipelago, and onto the
mamland of Asia. The twenty-ninth a nnual communication of the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands was he ld in the city of Manila January
28, 29 and 30,.1941, at which time th e Grand Jurisdiction had 102 Lodges,

166

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
I

29 in or near Manila, and six in China; one of these in Canton, one in
Nanking, one in Hangchow and two in Shanghai. The jurisdiction had
a membership of 5,656 Master Masons, 2,856 of whom were Filipinos,
_1,988 Americans, 654 Chinese and 158 of other nationalities.

· · Today there are many brethren who hold memberships in the Philippine · jurisdiction who are in the armed forces of the United States,
stationed in California and in the Hawaiian Islands, or domiciled within
the jurisdiction of the. Grand Lodge of California. When their Lodges
and Grand Lodges ceased to function they appealed to the Grand Master
of California on all matters Masonic. .On January 27, 1942, the Most
Worshipful Frank M: Smith, Grand Master of California, directed a
communication to me as representative of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Grand Jurisdiction near the Grand Lodge of California, setting forth
fhe problems confronting these brethren and stating that he was desirous
of extending every Masonic aid, and requesting my views on the subject.
Pnder date of January 28, 1'142, I submitted to the Grand Master a request that the Grand Lodge of California accept dues from these brethren,
issuing its receipt therefor. That these dues, with any other monies that
might be paid to the Grand Lodge of California for the account of the
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, be held in trust by the Grand
Lodge of California until such time as the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
~stands might direct its disposal.
Further, that such receipts as issued by the Grand Lodge of California to members of Lodges of the . Philippine Islands over the signature
of the Grand Secretary and/or the Grand Master, be recognized by the
Lodges of California as bona fide receipts of the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands and entitling the holder thereof to all the rights and
privileges of Masonry.·
· Further, that the Grand Lodge of California keep a record of the
riames and addresses of all members of Philippine Lodges who may pay
dues or receive aid from the Grand Lodge of California.
.··
My views met with the approval of the Grand Master except in the
matter of receipts, in lieu of which he caused certificates to be issued
~o each man paying dues. Certificates have been i&sued to 234 members of
34 Lodges and there are 55 cases pending. There is now $2,254.35 in the
~rust fund. The entire cost of this service is being borne by this Grand
Lodge.
As an evidence of the charity of the Grand Lodge of California
toward members of Island Lodges, I call one case to your attention and
give only a bare outline of that one. This case was handled under the
direction of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, through the Masonic
Board of Relief of Los Angeles. In October 1941 the widow of a Past
Master of a Philippine Lodge was found bedfast and alone . . She was
J?Uffering from cancer of the- spfoe. She had exhausted her savings and
was trying to exist on a small pension from the Federal Government.
.Brother Earl Thaxter, Secretary of the Los Angeles Board of Relief
}:!ad ·the lady moved to a sanitarium and ordered medical attention, advising the Philippine Lodge of his actions. The Lodge instructed him
to make certain expenditures in her behalf, but with the outbreak of war
all aid ceased. The patient died May 8, 1942. Expenditures made in her
d.se by California Masonry totaled $416.40:
Since the fall of Manila all contact with the outside world has been
denied to' the residents of that city. : 'rom sources considered reliable, we

167

have learned that Dr. Harry Eugene Stafford and Mrs. Stafford are now
confined in a Japanese concentration camp near Bagino. Dr. Stafford was
the first Grand Master in the Philippine Islands, serving from 1912 to
1914. From the same source we are now advised that Mr. and Mrs.
Stanton Youngberg are now prisoners of the . Japanese and confined to
the grounds of Santa Tomas University in Manila. Brother Youngberg
was Grand Master in 1933-34. Of our other brethren we have no word.
We pray that the Great Architect of the Universe in His infinit.e
wisdom and mercy will protect and guard our brethren from the cruelties
and inhuman treatment with which an ambitious or rapacious conqueror
has imposed upon others who have been so unfortunate as to fall under
his pow~r. As men and Masons, we pledge to them our devotion, our
unswerving loyalty and every ounce of power we possess to the end that
they may again be free; that Masonry may again go forward with its
great work of charity and tolerance; of its teachings of the Fatherhood
of God and the. brotherhood of man.
· Individually and collectively, we pledge to our government, all we
hold most dear; all we possess and all we are, that the dictators and
tyrants who plunged the world into the greatest catastrophe in all history,
will be destroyed. That through their destruction may come a world in
which good men, gentle women and little children may live, love, work
and play, free from the fear of attack by those without feeling and without conscience.
Respectfully submitted,
RoY C. BRYAN,
Representative of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine ·
Islands near the Grand Lodge of California.

The report was adopted and referred . to the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes and the Committee on Jurisprudence jointly .and the Deputy Grand Master was asked to meet
with them.
0

The b ret~ren of Grand Lodge were at this time accorded
the pleasure and privilege of listening to three distinguished
guests, Most Worshipful Asa H. Hankerson, · Past Grand Master
of the Grand Lodge of Washington ; Most Worshipful Joseph
A. K Ivey, Grand Master of Masons of Arizona, and Most W orshipful William C. Watson, Grand Master of Masons of Nevada.
These distinguished brethren not only inspired and uplifted
those fortunate enough to hear them, but brought to the assembled brethren factual information relative to Masonry in their
Grand Jurisdictions which was highly inforlllative and helpful.
The hour of 11 :00 o'clock having been reached, the Grand
Master requested Worshipful Brother Arthur P. Crim to conduct an appropriate memorial service for those of our number
who had passed away during the year.

168

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

REPORT OF NECROLOGY COMMITTEE
Organ Solo, "Traumerei"
Invocation . . . . .

MacDowell
Past Grand Master Samuel E. Burke

To the M osf .W orshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Once more with a mingling of sadness and sorrow, we take up the
record of the grim messenger, death, and pay a loving tribute to our
departed. Many of our bPethren whom a year ago were apparently in
good health, have gone to their eternal reward. Our records show the
passing of 222 members of this Grand Lodge since our last communication. It is fitting that a eulogy should be delivered for these brethren who
are now in that· Celestial Grand Lodge above. Brother Ellsworth Meyer
will render such eulogy.
The loss of our ' brethren in the ranks of Masonry has been especially
heavy this year. In the interim of our communications 2236 have been
called. A very heavy toll.
A year ago, no one with the most far-sighted or prophetic vision could
have foretold the momentous things that would come to be our lot, individually and nationally. We are now at war with some of the most cruel
and fanatical nations of the world. It is well to take a backward look and
rediscover that our flag, "your flag and my flag," has never been lowered
by any nation or peoples on earth and to resolve, as thousands of our young
men have resolved, that we will never surrender to any nation or people.s
while time shall last. Many of our young Masons, our brethren, have
already made the supreme sacrifice. They have gone out from our homes
to preserve freedom. They have gone in the spirit of that ancient writer
when he said, "'Tis sweet and glorious to die for one's country."
In all the years that record the history of Masonry, we can look with
a justifiable pride at the achievements of Masons in the many wars in
which we have fought for our home's, and for our loved ones. Masons in
this war are no exception, and will continue to acquit themselves with
great valor. The only note of sadness is found in that oft quoted stanza:
"The boast of heraldry, ·the pomp of power,
And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave,
A wait alike the inevitable hour,
The paths of glory lead but to the grave."
-Thomas A . Gray.
In the days, weeks, months, and years that we may be spared for
future usefulness, let us highly resolve, "that these dead shall not have
died in vain.'! A fitting tribute to the memory of our heroic dead will be
given by Brother G. Ellsworth Meyer when he delivers the general eulogy.
On August 25, ·1942, the great world-wide fraternity of Masonry was
shocked and saddened by the accidental death of His Royal Highness, the
Duke of Kent, Grand Master of Masons of the United Grand Lodge of
England. When His Royal Highness, the Duke of Kent, was installed
Grand Master, July 19, 1939, it was our happy privilege to be represented
on that occasion by Past Grand Master William Rhodes Hervey, who will
later give us a eulogy honoring the Duke of Kent, Great Master of English
Masonry.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

169

We are very grateful that only a few of our active Grand Lodge
brethren have been taken from among us in the last year. Brief biographies
are as follows:
WILLIAM AUGUSTUS SCHREIDER, Former Inspector
On Ma.rch_ 19, 1941, our brother Schreider was transferred from this
ear.t hly habitation to that celestial home, eternal in the heavens. His was
a life full of Masonic activities. He was raised to the Degree of Master
Mason, _September 27, 1917, in Golden State Lodge No. 358, F. & A. M.
!fe demitted Decemb~r 4, 1919, to aid in the formation of America Lodge
·m. Los Angeles of which he later became a Past Master. He again affiliated
with Golden State Lodge by demitting from America Lodge December 5
1935.
'
'
He served this. Grand Lo?ge as Inspector of the Eighty-first District
fo; many years. H~s greatest mterest and pride was the work of the Committee on Clandestme Masonry. He was chairman of this committee from
1931 to 1940 incl~sive. Anyone having listened to his report on Clandestine
Maso~ry', or having read the same, must express a high regard for Brother
Schre1der s t~oroughness. I am sure no finer testimonial can be paid our
brother than to say that he "studied to show himself approved unto God;
a workman that needeth not to be ashamed."
REV. HERBERT PARKER SHAW, Past Grand Chaplain
Brother Shaw was born in Remington, Indiana, March 2, 1876. He
was the son of John Kent and Mary Esther (Parker) Shaw. He received
the. degree ~f A._B . .in Eureka College, 1902. Completed his education in
Chicago University m 1915. Married Lillian E. Chalman, June 26, 1902.
_He was ordained a minister of the Christian Church (Disciples of
Chnst) 19~2 . . Student Pastor, Antioch and Franklin Churches, Morgan
County, Ilhno1s, .1897-1902. Missionary to China 1903-1915. Pastor Turlock, California (while on furlough from China)' nine months Tre~surer
of "Men of Millions Movement," 1916-1919 (rais,ed seven milli~n dollars)
~ astor of ~est Side Church, San Francisco, California, 1920-1941. At thi~
time he retired.
. He w.a s president of Sin Francisco Church Federation, ·two ·terms.
V ice president, International Convention of Disciples of Christ 1931.
Sec;etary, "Temple of Religi.on and Tower of Peace," Treasure 'rsland,
durmg Golden Gate International Exposition; California Church Council
o.f Northern ~rea, 1938, 1939, 1940, 1941. Member, Southwestern Miss10nary Educat10nal Board, fifteen years. Trustee, Yosemite National Park
Ch~rch .. I;Ie w~s active in religious and civic organizations during his
entire mm1stry m San Francisco.
. i::e :was raised a Master Mason in Harmony Lodge at Jacksonville,
Illmo1s, m 19?2. Transferred to Shanghai, China, then to Ingleside Lodge
m San Francisco.
He served this Grand Lodge as Grand Chaplain for the years of 1925,
192_6•. !933, 1934, 1935 and 1936. In viewing his life filled with so many
actlv1t1es, one naturally exlaims, "What a life of service!" I am sure it
w~s his .joy to receive the welcome plaudit, "Well done, thou good and
faithful servant; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."
I have here a letter from Past Grand Master George L . Jones in which
he pays a personal tribute to Brother Shaw and ~t is so fitting a tribute
that I shall read it at this time.

170

PRO CEEDI N GS OF THE

"Brnther Shaw was first appointed Chaplain of Grand Lodg e
by Grand Master Albert E. Boynton in 1925, and in 1926 he was
reappointed by me. He was one who possessed the finest qualities
of manhood. A gentleman in every sense of the word and a faithful Mason, he won the love and ·confidence of his brethren, and we
will cherish most lovingly, a happy memory of this splendid man
with whom we were privileged to associate in our fraternal work."
FRANK TADE, Member, Board of Control
On September 3, 1941, Brother Tade was called to the Supreme Grand
Lodge to receive his reward. He had been a member of the Board of
Control for five years.
He was born April 16, ·1876, in Sacramento, California. He was initiated an Entered Apprentice in Sacramento Lodge No. 40, F . & A . M.,
February 4, 1902; passed April 11, 1902; and raised to the Sublime Degree
of. Master Mason, May 30, 1902. He was a member of the Scottish Rite
Bodies of Sacramento, receiving his degrees in Isaac Davis Lodge of
Perfection, February 17, 1903; in the Chapter of Rose Croix; May 26,
1903; Council of Kadosh, February 2, 1905; and the Consistory, February 4,
1905.
'
Very soon after uniting with the Scottish Ride Bodies, he was honored
by his brethren. He was elected to the office of Wise Master in the
Chapter of Rose Croix for four years in succession, 1906, 1907, 1908 and
1909. He was also elected Master of Kadosh for four years, 1910, 1911,
1912 and 1913. His ability, loyalty, and true worth was recognized by the
Supreme Council 33, A. & A. S. R., a nd in October, 1909, he was given the
Knight Commander of the Court of Honor, and December 11, 1915, he ·
received the highest honor in the Supreme Council, the Thirty-third Degree.
He served his own Lodge, Sacramento No. 40, for twenty-two years as
Treasurer. Also was President of the Sacramento Maso nic Temple Association, and President of the Masonic Lawn Cemetery Association. At the
time of his death, he was Venerable Master of Isaac Davis Lodge of
Perfection.
Many centuries ago it was said of the "Man of Galilee," that "He went
about doing good." I can find no higher tribute to pay our Brother Tade
than this, "He went about doing good."

In closing briefly our necrology report, I am sure that those of our
brethren who have gone to their eternal home, would not have us linger·
longer, but would have us bid them a loving farewell and turn again to .
the problems of time. May we look into the difficulties of the future with
the unshakable faith, hop e, and vision, that inspired James Russell Lowell
to pen those matchless words:
"Truth forever on the scaffold
Wrong forever on the Throne,
Yet that scaffold sways the future,
And, behind the dim unknown,
Standeth God, within the shadow,
Keeping watch above His own."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Tehama Lodge No. 3:
Egbert Alfred Brown, died January 15, 1942.
Corinthian Lodge N'o. 9:
Lewis Boyd Wilcoxon, died July 24, 1942.
Yount Lodge No. 12:
Elmer L eonard Bickford, died September 2, 1941.
Nevada Lodge No. 13:
Alfred J. Heether, died November 13, 1941.
Eureka Lodge No. 16:
John Francis Pullen, died November 10, 1941.
Washington Lodge No. 20:
Clyde Horace Brown, died June 29, 1942.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21:
Albert Jones Derby , died June 2, 1942.
Mariposa Lodge No. 24:
Frederick Anthony Mack, died September 6, 1941.
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38:
Harry James Bias, died D ecember 20, 1941.
Sacramento Lodge No. 40:
Frank Tade, died September 3, 19.41.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
Carl Frederick August Last, died November 15, 1941.
Suisun Lodge No. 55:
Charles Edward Torp, died September 23, 1941.
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57:
Mark Body, died March 20, 1942.
John McGill Laughlin, died November 15, 1941.
Kenneth Gordon Lester, died November 17, 1941.
Union Lodge No. 58:
George Albert Meister, died March 1, 1942.
Charles Franklin Nehrbass, 'd ied July 5, 1942.
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59:
John H. Kennady, died September 18, 1941.
Plumas Lodge No. 60:
Melville Mcintosh, died November 4, 1941.
Live Oak Lodge N?. 61:
William Baekma)l Joseph, died F ebruary 2, 1942.
Amador Lodge No. 65:
Harry J ay Learn, died November 27, 1941.
Enterprise Lodge No. 70:
.
Clyde Banta Harter, died F ebruary 21, 1942.
William Beckwith Clark, died. March 4, 1942.

171

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76:
John Fairbain Telfer, died December 1, 1941.
Joseph Fulgenzio Perini, died March 12, 1942.

Phoenix Lodge No. 178:
Lyman Clinton Linfesty, died April 2, 1942.
William Daggett Thoms, died June 13, 1942.

Yolo Lodge No. 81:
William Charles Hadley, died December 25, 1941.

Russian River Lodge No. 181:
William Lamb Cunningham, died June 2, 1942.
Atlas Hembree, died December 18, 1941.

· Naval Lodge No. ffl:
George Montgomery Shoopman, died February 24, 1942. ·
Henry Clay Lodge No. 95:
Charles Lenard ·Culbert, died May 14, 1942.
Malachi D. Nixon, died July 31, 1942.
Hornitos Lodge No. 98:
George Ludwig Klug, died October 24, 1941.
Oroville Lodge No. 103:
Fred Jacob Wolfe, died February 9, 1942.
Homer Smith Toms, died May 20, 1942.

Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Frederick Luther Arbogast, died March 22, 1942.
Chas. Edwin Keyes, died October 26, 1941.
George Cooper Pardee, died September 1, 1941.
Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192.:
Eugene Wesley Squier, died December 22, 1941.
Wilmington Lodge No. 198:
Silas E. Kennedy, died January 22, 1942.

Lexington Lodge No. 11>4:
Harry Johnston Woods, died April 6, 1942.

Hartley Lodge No. 199:
Euvelle Howard, died April 15, 1942.
Shafter Mathews, died September 18, 1941.
Jonathan Daniel Monroe, died December 21, 1941.

Concord Lodge No. 117: ·
Frederick Chesbrow Hunt, died May 2, 1942.

King David's Lodge No. 209:
John Clifton James, died April 8, 1942.

Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
Charles Schlessinger, died January 22, 1942.
Isaac Strassburger, died November 21, 1941.

San Benito Lodge No. 211:
William Anderson Dunlap, died November 18, 1941.
Frederick William Seither, died March 5, 1942.

Alamo Lodge No. 122:
Mathias C. Andersen, died May 22, 1942.

Oak Grove Lodge No. 215:
Henry Miller Hammond, died August 10, 1942.
George Rudolph Hansen, died February 6, 1942.
William Higby, died April 23, 1942.

Herm~nn Lodge No. 127:

Hans Henry Schmalfeld, died November 28, 1941.
Visalia Lodge No. 128:
Earl Windsor Westcott, died March 3, 1942.
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131:
Ira N. Crose, died December 6, 1941.

Doric Lodge No. 216:
Frank Thomas Faircloth, died July 11, 1941.
Monterey Lodge No. 217:
Charles Newton Bennett, died August 15, 1941.
Downey Lodge No. 2;20:
Richard Clyde Austin, died September 28, 1941.
John Wesley Rudd, died November 29, 1941.

Franklin Loclge No. 143:
Theodore C. Poole, died August 25, 1941.
James F. Elliott, died August 28, 1941.
Charles H. Rippon, died June 14, 1942.
Edward G. Niestrath, died June 14, 1942.

Inyo Lodge No. 221:
.Tames Garfield Wilder, died August 12, 1941.

Molino Lodge No. 150:
John Thomas Youles, died November 5, 1941.

Brooklyn Lodge No. 225:
Charles Lorin Hemphill, died January 25, 1942.

Alameda Lodge No. 167:
Frank Gallatin Evans, died September 2, 1941.

North Butte Lodge No. 230:
James Peter Fagan, died March 15, 1942.

Elk Grove Lodge No. 173:
Edward Laidley Gerrish, died January 23, 1942.

Janesville Lodge No. 232:
N. V. Wemple, died January 19, 1942.

173

174

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235:
Raymond Jacob ' Tumer, died July 6, 1942.
Colusa Lodge No. 240:
Harry Freeman ·Osgood, died January 7, 1942.
Melvin Alfret Sparks, died April 14, 1942.
Magnolia Lodge No. 242:
Charles Norman Allen, died October 28, 1941.
James Wilson Smith, died May 6, 1942.
Reading Lodge No. 254:
Lawrence Leslie D'utton, died June 19, 1942.
George Albert Kervin, died January 1, 1942.
Charles Alden Moore, died September 22, 1941.
Lodi Lodge No. 256:
Frederic Spoerke, died November 27, 1941.
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258:
Antone Fereva, died August 28, 1941.
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260:
Ira. Sedley Hobbs, died May 8, 1942.
Tuscan Lodge No. 261
Hiram Curl Stovall, died November 15, 1941.

Elsinore Lodge No. 289:
Charles Hudson, died June 20, 1942.
East Gate Lodge No. 290:
William Andrew Spalding, died September 7, 1941.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296:
Virgil Bruschi, Jr., died February 25, 1942.
Benjamin._Wellington Bryant, died March 14, 1942.
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297:
Alva Rosnell Wilkins, died January 5, 1942.
Redlands Lodge No. 300:
Albert Edwin Taylor, died July 30, 1942.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307:
Willia m N. Barrow, died September 23, 1941.
William E. Oliver, died October 21, 1941.
·Sanger Lodge No .. 316:
Edward Ellsworth Baird, died November 24, 1941.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319:
Melvin Arthur Bresee, died May 5, 1942.
Edward Alonzo Talbot, died June 20, 1942.

Lompoc Lodge No. 262:
Robert Ready Mercer, died January 14, 1942.

Sout~

Hesperian Lodge No. 264: ·
Francis Atwood Hebard, died January 3, 1942.
James Williamson Herron, died March 18, 1942 .
.Chas. Wallace Gerard Murdock, died March 12, 1942.

Long Beach Lodge No. 327:
Earl Bradford Howes, died September 2, 1941.

Orland Lodge No. 265:
George Ephraim Wright, died January 25, 1942.
Galt Lodge No. 267:
.
James Tilden Christian, died November 30, 1941.

Gate -Lodge No. 320:
John Reginald Neelands, died April 23, 1942.

. Redondo Lodge No. 328:
David .Mowatt Taylor, died July 28, 1942.
Kilauea Lodge No. 330:
Horace William Jennings Joyce, died December 30, 1941.
Carquinez Lodge No. 337:
John Milo Curd, died December 18, 194-1.

Madera Lodge No. 280:
James Eugene Barrett, died December 8, 1941.
Rusworth Lincoln Bennett, died January 21, 1942.
Carl Herbert Edman, die(l December 29, 1941.

San Jacinto Lodge No. 338:
Gustave Matthews, died July 31, 1942.

Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281:
Henry C. Dusendschon, died December 6, 1941.

San Fernando Lodge No. 343:
George Ira Cartee, died March 27, 1942.
Robert Love Fraisher, died October 13, 1941.

South West Lodge No. 281:
Walter J. Henderson, died October 5, 1941.

Starr King Lodge No. 344:
Solomon Deutsch, died July 23, 1942.

Paso Robles Lodge No. 286:
. Cliff Ormond Bickell, died August 31, 1941.
William Samuel Eddy, died March 25, 1942.
George Washington Hamilton, died August 24, 1941.

Brentwood Lodge No. 345:
Austin Collis, died April 8, 1942.
Cornelius L. Kreim, died November 3, 1941.

Winnedumah Lodge No. 287:
Archie Biggs, died Novemb er 30, 1941.

·sequoia Lodge No. 349:
Gilnian William Bacon, died October 6, 1941.

175

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pinole Lodge No. 353:
Sank Vance Sharp, died June 17, 1942.

Arlington Lodge No. 414:
William Fred Miller, died June 5 1 1942.

Hollywood Lodge No. 355:
Daniel Melvin Trott, died January 17, 1942.
Stephen Edward Wilson, died June 4, 1942.

Clovis Lodge No. 417:
James Wilson Bittle, died September 2, 1941.

San Francisco Lodge No. 360:
Ernest Robertson Byers, died November 16, l!l41.
Harold Louderback, died December ·11, 1941.
Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361 :
Edward Evans Brown, died December 21, 1941.
Unity Lodge No. 368:
John Hobbs, died June 23, 1942.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369:
. Clyde Verner Hover, died May 2, 1942.
Amity Lodge No. 370:
John Arnold Spears, died July 26, 1942.
Edward Stephenson, died September 11," 1941.
le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge NO. 371:
Merle McNaughton Johnson, died December 28, 1941.
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376:
Peter Bolliger, died August 26, 1941.
Martin Luper Spangler, died December 16, 1941.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382:
Louis Pettit Russill, died May 2, 1942.

Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422:
Arthur David Edward Howard, died March 15, 1942.
York Lodge No. 423:
James Edwin Rose, died December 6, 1941.
Holtville Lodge No. 425:
Mathew Micha.e l Sweeney, died November 29, 1941.
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427:
Ralph Clifton Homan, died November 28, 1941.
Clark Baker Hampton, died December 18, 1941.
Gus Becton Caldwell, died July 17, 1942.
Maricopa. Lodge No. 434:
John William Jones, died April 15, 1942.
Standard Lodge No. 440:
Henry William Pleitner, died December 25, 1941.
Coronado Lodge No. 441:
Bertin Copsey, died July 8, 1942.
Blackmer Lodge No. 442:
Leon Harold David, died April 6, 1942.
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444:
Phillip Irvine Dane, died May 41 1942.

El Centro Lodge No. 384:
Oscar Franklin Haun, died August 26, 1941.

Wilshire Lodge No. 445:
Clay Finson Leonard, died February 17, 1942.

Parnassus Lodge No. 388:
Kenneth Bromley Hoppe, died January 27, 1942.

Van Nuys Lodge No. 450:
Armin Schelling, died August 16, 1941.

Balder Lodge No. 393:
Frank Henry Nelson, died July 24, 1942.

Bethlehem Lodge No. 453:
Charles Kean Harper, died May 19, 1942.
Martin Mahlen Miller, died April 20, 1942.
Leighton Turner Stewart, died March 4, 1942.

•

Turlock Lodge No. 395:
Elie L. Matheron, died March 7, 1942.

Bay View Lodge No. 4'()1:
Robert Beugo Girdwood, died October 28, 1941.

Golden ·west Lodge No. 455:
Harry Henry Hoopes, died March 14, 1942.
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458:
Allen Ironside Knickrehm, died August 11, 1941.
Walter Earnest Trask, died April 1, ~942.

La Mesa Lodge No. 407:
Homer W. Hurlbert, died May 25, 1942.

Riverbank Lodge No. 459:
William Isaac Karnes, died April 7, 1942.

Honolulu Lodge No. 409:
Roscoe Wiley Perkins, died January 13, 1942.

Culver City Lodge No. 467:
Allan Whitaker Courtney, died January 28, 1942.

Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
Frank Russell Warnick, died September 11, 1941.

Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469:
Alvin Russel Lupton, died December 30, 1941.

Apollo Lodge No. 396:
Henry Andrew Weichhart, died February 23, 1942.

177

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Maui Lodge No. 472:
Frank William Peacock, died January 18, 1942.

Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571:
Allen Lincoln 'Fowle, died May 1, 1942.

Victory Lodge No. 474:
Harry Sherman Griffith, died October 3, 1941.
Humphrey Scroggins Reneau, died December 25, 1941.

Hillcrest Lodge No. 573:
Leland Stanford J<mes, died May 21, 1942.

Coachella Lodge No. 476:
Charles Bedford Jones, died September 22, 1941.
Temblor Lodge No. 477:
. Floyd Stinebaugh Cooley, died July 30, 1942.
Stockton Lodge No. 498:
Arnold Wilson Graham, died June 7, 1942.
Seaside Lodge No. 504:
John Arthur De Forest, died June 3, 1942.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507:
Frank Elmer Anderson, di ed April 4, 1942.
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509:
George Herman Naegele, died January 21, 1942.
Mancil Samuel Skinner, died May 30, 1942.
Walter Eugene Edmunds, died May 18, 1942.
Cupertino Lodge No. 510:
John Rollin Kamp, died June 27, 1942.
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535 :
Wilfred Elizur D eming, died March 1, 1942.
Charles Heller, died March 19, 1942.
Utopia Lodge No. 537:
Ellis Marion Crawford, died May 8, 1942.
Jonathan Lodge No. 545:
David Nakapaahu Neal, died November 6, 1941.
Lakeshore Lodge No. 551:
William Elbert Pitcher, died January 29, 1942.
Fairfax Lodge No. 556:
Fred Evans Dickey, died October 24, 1941.
Plymouth Lodge No. 560:
Walter Irvin Kuykendall, died September 28, 1941.
.
East ·San Diego Lodge No. 561:
Walter LeRoy Kirby, died September 19, 1941.
South Park Lodge No. 563:
David W. Bosserman, died August 28, 1941.
Foothill Lodge No. 564:
Arthur Melvin Lyons, died December 12, 1941.
Searchlight Lodge No. 567:
Clarence Earl Mayo, died December 20, 1941.

Fort Crook Lodge No. 575:
Willis Eldredge King, died July 9, 1942.
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576:
Walter Alden Rawley, died November 26, 1941.
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577:
Thomas Carlyle Ebersole, died August 13, 1941.
Santa Maria Lodge No. 580:
Naseeb M. Malouf, died July 10, 1941.
Rialto Lodge No. 582:
Paul Garrison Weller, died September 29, 1941.
Harding Lodge No. 584:
Wallace Frjjeman Burnham, died August 9, 1941.
Melrose Lodge No. 602:
Roy Reuben, died October 3, 1941.
Dimond Lodge No. 603:
Percy Barden Snashall, died M arch 16, 1942.
Granada Lodge No. 608:
John Henry Wernex, died February 9, 1942.
Canoga Lodge No. 611:
Frederick Llewellyn Cary, died November 20, 1941.
R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616:
Charles Edward Sweany, died December 7, 1941.
Big Bear Lodge No. 617:
William James Nicker!, died August,17, 1942.
Point Loma 'Lodge No. 620:
Alfred Eugene Zuern, died. October 5, 1941.
The Gardens Lodge No. 621:
·Joe Leslie Monroe, died Jilly 30, 1941.
Ingleside Lodge No. 63'0:
Rev. Herbert Parker Shaw, died January 1, 1942.
Donald Hudson Frew, died July 8, 1942.
Palisades Lodge No. 637:
Edward Eldridge Liptrap, died October ~7, 1941.
Alta Loma. Lodge No. 643:
Arthur William Pease, died December 10, 1941.
James Franklin West, died April 5, 1942.
Damascus Lodge No. 648:
Homer William Emmerton, died January 1, 1942.

179

180

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

181

Menlo Park Lodge No. 651:
Clarence Earl Sebring, died October 31, 1941.

in the Especial Grand Lodge, where the ruling King, George VI, P. G. M.
of the Grand Lodge of England, was the installing officer.

John D. ·Spreckels Lodge No. 657:
Ernest Wells Dort, died August 14, 1941.
Lloyd W. Carter, died April 2, 1942.

When death laid his inexorable hand on the Grand Master of the
United Grand Lodge of England we had a striking and painful illustration
of the truth that "death loves a shining mark, a signal blqw." Honored
and loved by his brethren and fellow countrymen, eminent for his social
virtues, occupying a high rank in the armed forces of his country, engaged
in an important and dangerous mission in line of military duty, blessed
by a beautiful wife and three young children and holding the highest
station of honor in British Masonry, he did indeed offer a shining mark
to the insatiate archer. The solemn lesson has been brought home to our
hearts that "the paths of glory lead but to the grave," and, as the great
Roman satirist tells us, "pale death with impartial footsteps knocks alike
at the poor man's hut and the palace of kings."

Baldwin Park Lodge No. 660:
Shelby Doniphan W~llis, died April 17, 1942.
Meridian Lodge· No. 667:
Mattison Boyd Jones, died October 12, 1941.
San Clemente Lodge No. 671:
Floyd Walter Reed, died March 21, 1942.
ARTHUR P. CRIM,
ALBERT GORDON,
Ross ROPER,
ALFRED

J. BAKER,

ALEXANDER McBrRNEY,

Committee.
Tenor Solo, "Good Night"

Smith-Anderson

EULOGY ON THE DUKE OF KENT
Grand Master of the Unit~d Grand Lodge of England
By P. G. M. WM. RHODES HERVEY

The United Grand Lodge of England has suffered a great misfortune
by the death of its Grand Master. On his way to Iceland on August 25,
1942, in the course of R. A. F. duties, the airship by which he was traveling
crashed in the north of Scotland and all its occupants, including the Duke
of Kent, the Most Worshipful Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge
of England, were killed.
The Duke of Kent was born at the Cottage, Sandringham, December
20, 1902, and was the youngest surviving brother of King George VI. He
was educated at Dartmouth College for the Royal Navy and served eight
years in it. He joined the Royal Air Force in 1940 and had attained the
rank of Air Commodore.
Prince George, later the Duke of Kent, was made a Mason in April,
1928. He was elected Senior Grand Warden of the United· Grand Lodge
of England in April, 1933, was elected Provincial Grand Master of Wiltshire in 1934 and was elected Grand Master of the Grand Lodge and
installed on July 19, 1939. He had the varied Masonic distinctions of being,
at the time of his death, President of the Royal Masonic Institution for
Girls, the Royal Masonic Institution for Boys, the Royal Masonic Benevolent Institution and the Royal Masonic Hospital. He was a 33° Mason
and a member of the Supreme Council of England.
The Duke of Kent succeeded his great-uncle, the Duke of Connaught,
who had served as Grand Master for thirty-eight years and who, himself,
was the successor of Edward VII, the grandfather of the Duke of Kent
who, in turn, served as Grand Master for about thirty years. At the time
of his installation as Grand Master there were about 17,000 Masons. present

Where today is sorrow in the craft at the untimely death of a
respected, esteemed and beloved brother and Grand Master, it is but a
little time ago that unbounded enthusiasm and overflowing devotion filled
the hearts of thousands of his brethren as he entered the great arena of
Olympia and stood in the West for installation, facing his King in the
East. As the two brothers, the King as Past Grand Master and the Duke
of Kent as Grand Master elect, both in full regalia, stood that hour in their
handsome young manhood, surrounded by thousands of cheering Masons,
it seemed that a spirit of exaltation had seized the multitude and that
fervent loyalty t,o his majesty was matched by high hopes for the prosperity of our brotherhood during all the years of the long life of its young
Grand Master.
After a short time of cruel and devastating war all these hopes were
tragically shattered by the untimely death of him who, "while the dew
was still upon his days and the singing birds in his heart," had given every
promise of a long life and valuable service to Freemasonry.
The Duke of Kent was a lovable, companionable, broad-minded and
benevolent gentleman and had long manifested a deep interest in all the
activities of his Grand Jurisdiction. In these important and critical times
he acted well his part, both in peace and in war, both in society and in
Masonry. On the threshold of grand honors and high authority, in the
service of King and Country, he died at the post of duty.
We weep for Adonais; he is dead.
Tenor Solo, "Recessional"

Kipling-DeKoven

A TRIBUTE TO JOHN WHICHER
By DANA R. WELLER, Past Grand Master

One year ago we paid tribute to the memory of our dear, beloved
friend, John Whicher. In that eulogy there was incorporated a poem of
which John had been very, very fond.
Our brother, Anthony L. Auradou, Past Master, Inspector of the
"Free French" Lodge of San Francisco, has prepared a most beautiful
copy of that poem, changed just a little bit by poetic license to apply to
John Whicher.

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A Tribute to Our Late Brother John Whicher, Grand Secretary,
August 25, 1908, to March 31, 1941

life and see time as a stream swiftly flowing from the deep pools of the
past over the turbulent waterfall of the present into the mysterious ocean
of .the future. Here we speak of man's duty, his duty to God, to country,
his neighbor and himself.

"Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase!)
Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace,
And saw, within the moonlight in his room,
Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom,
An Angel writing in a book of gold:
Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold,
And to the presence in the room he said,
'What writest thou?' The Vision raised its head,
And with a look made of all sweet accord
Answered, 'The names of those who love the Lord.'
'And is mine one?' said Abou. 'Nay, not so,'
Replied the Angel. Abou spoke more low,
But cheerily still; and said, 'I pray thee, then,
Write me as one that loves his fellow-men.'
The Angel wrote, and vanished. The next night ·
It came again with a great wakening light,
And showed the names whom love of God has blessed,
And lo! john Whicher's name led all the rest."
"Presented to the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of California, by Anthony L. :Auradou, Past Master, Inspector of
the 113th Masonic District, San Francisco, Calif., October 14, 1942."
Brethren, I wish you could see the beauty of this: Note that the "A"
in Abou Ben Adhem is composed of a square and compass. The script is
beautifully done and it is beautifully colored. It has been at the request
of Brother Auradou that I present this to the Grand Lodge, and having
done so, I would like to move that we accept with gratitude this work
of art and that it be properly framed and hung in the Grand Secretary's
office.
IN MEMORIAM

By G. ELLSWORTH MEYER
"Soft and safe to thee, my brother, be thy earthly bed! Bright
and glorious be thy rising from it! Fragrant be the cassia sprig
that there shall flourish! May the earliest buds of spring unfold
their beauties o'er thy resting place, and there may the sweetness
of summer's last rose linger longest!'"
Time after time during the past year these words have been spoken,
spoken to the accompaniment of sighing redwoods, of pounding surf, the
rustling quiet of the open countryside or the busy hum of a great city as
Freemasons laid to rest a brother.
Now, as is our custom, we dedicate and consecrate . an hour in affec. tionate memory of those members of this Grand Lodge who have slipped
behind the veil which, from mortal eyes, hides eternity. There is no hour
more solemn, .more revealing. Its cadence, soft melody and memories lift
our thoughts until it seems we catch the very music of the stars and our
groping hands gently brush the Infinite as we declare that men who truly
live can never die.
Here we cast aside the mundane. Here we are concerned with ultimate
destiny and eternal values. Here we mark the transitory nature of human

183

Fremasonry takes no note of the worldly possessions .of its applicants
and members. It evidences no interest in the store of goods left behind.
Just as it is the internal and not the external qualifications which recommend a man when he knocks at our door, so it is the warp and woof of
character with which we are concerned as he silently slips into the twilight
shadows.· We remember his many virtues that we may the better be
enabled to· emulate exemplary conduct and weave our everlasting raiment
of purest gold.
These were our brethren. Short days ago we felt their warm handclasp, were cheered by their friendly words, comforted by their deeds of
kindness and encouraged by their faith in our ability to discharge duty on
every occasion. Now they have filed past the grand tiler into the Celestial
Lodge to view the trestle board upon which the Supreme Architect, who
does all things well, has drawn that life eternal in which they had abounding faith.
These were our brethren and in essential features the pattern of their
lives was very like our own. They found in life the same little joys, the
same sorrows, the same stumbling blocks, as well as the same opportunities
for service. They, too, found duty with them always; it rose with them
in the morning, walked with them by day and stood by their pillows at
night.
There on our final roll is the name of one who toiled in the fields,
occasionally mimicking the birds overhead as he viewed his tender shoots
pushing aside the clods. He found duty in his prospect of feeding men
and peace in its discharge. The discharge of duty another found in making
available those same crops. There, too, is the name of the school teacher
who heard the call of duty emanating from the class room where he
inspired youth to become evangels in the cause of good government,
champions of the oppressed and stewards of our fathers' faith in free
institutions. Is there not also the name of a man of the cloth? His duty
was to quicken conscience, raise the fallen and bring to men that peace
which passeth understanding. There, also, is the name of one who sought
to hold the scales of justice in equipose, unafraid to champion the poor
against the rich, the lowly against those in high places or to sit as the
arbiter between contending men. There we read the name of one who with
medical skill ushered in new life, made its final hours easy and between
that alpha and omega of mortality responded to the call of duty through
driving rains and across the weary miles of night.
Varied indeed were the roads down which our brethren traveled.
Varied were the tasks to which they brought their services, not as austere
performances but with lofty purposes and deep sympathies. Masonry has
been strengthened by their interaction and cooperation and while their
humility may have caused them to think of themselves as pupils, we
recognize them as builders each of whom carried a few bricks and some
mortar to be builded into· the temple of man. We affirm that they could
"walk with the crowd and keep virtue, talk with kings nor lose the common
touch." Nor is it mere fraternal pride, when we declare that they found
in Masonry inspiration and a design by which they could work out their
own goodness amid the difficulties of life.

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We note these many vacant chairs with mixed emotions. Our fraternity has lost a host of dependable workmen and each of us many a
generous friend of pleasing personality and engaging charm whom we
were proud to call brother. We know not what power caused their spirits
to take up the tools of human life lest it was a call to duty whispered
by Divine Providence, and they have laid those tools aside in response to
a call to higher duty. Perhaps some sorrowful heart, knowing that there
was yet so much work to do, may have cried out, "Why, Father? Why
this one?" We can only answer by asking, why does the red rose drop
its petals? Is it to toll perfume on some purer air? Does not the tree
discard its autumn-tinted leaves that it may lift new leafy arms to God
in prayer? Does not the sun abandon its setting glories to the shades of
night that it may shine upon some other shore? Even so, these our brethren who came from out the boundless deep have turned again home to
hear their Pilot's benediction, "Well done, thou good and faithful Servant."
As we speak of duty and those we know have crossed the bar, we
are not unmindful of the possibility that there may be others, at present
unknown to us, from among our brethren in uniform. If so, there will be
yet others before we again assemble in annual communication. This. is not
a pleasant thought but grim reality, for violent death walks the highways
and the byways of the world; it is no respecter of fraternal allegiance. .
May it not be said of ,these that they have held in proper order the
call of duty, to God, to country, to neighbor, before themselves? Can it
not be said of these that they were truly zealous in behalf of human rights,
national integrity and justice ? To these the Masonic concepts of fortitude,
liberty and equality are no mere abstractions of the Lodge room, nor matters for fraternal mummery but heritages beyond the value of life itself.
We may never know humanity's true loss, for this war's shells like
those of the last may forever silence the lips of another Kilmer singing,
"Poems are made by fools like me; but only God can make a tree." There
may be winging steel at some new Gallipoli to claim a youth of twenty'
whose discoveries revolutionized scientific thinking. Perhaps, but even if
such minds be spared, still the cup of agony will be pressed to the lips
of countless widows and orphans. There will still be placed upon our
shoulders a responsibility which we cannot discharge at present by life
as usual or by turning the other way when the guns at last cease firing.
It is not enough to speak in glowing patriotic terms. It is not enough
to build monuments of words. Posterity "will little note, nor long remember what we say," but it will never forget our duty ·to furl the battle flags
of the nations in the parliament of man, to make manifest our avowed
doctrines of the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, to make
certain that these dead shall not have died in vain. This henceforth is our
imperative duty.
Permit me to express that solemn charge by putting my words on
silent lips:

185

'Neath many a foreign field we lie,
Men who were not afraid to die.
O'er us no crosses rise in ordered row
Nor yet do crimsoned poppies grow. '
We. lie beneath embattled country sod,
Beside the dark jungle trails we trod,
Along the tropic island coral strands
And in the north ice bound lands. '
Scattered mounds mark where ~e fell
These our last resting places tell;
'
We who carried freedom's torch on high,
To these strange lands in which we lie.
We ask no spiring monuments of stone
Here leave us sleep eternally alone,
'
Only teach youth not hate but to laugh
And make a new, free world our cenotaph.
-Original.

"Taps" .

. ,.

Custance
Tenor Solo, with Organ

Benediction .

Past Grand Master Samuel E. Burke

At 12:33 p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 p. m.

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1fn ~ranb JLobge
AFTERNOON SESSION
\Vednesday, October 14, 1942.
Grand Lodge was called on · at 2 :OD p. m., the Grand Master
presiding.

REPORT OF GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Frank B. Belcher, chairman, presented the Omnibus Report
of the Grievance Commjttee, coverin·g the following twelve
cases:
No. 996--From George Washington Lodge No. 525.
No. 1005-From Pinole Lodge No. 353.
No. 1006--From La Habra Lodge No. 659.
No. 10'08-From Corona Lodge No. 324.
No. 1010-From Canby Cross Lodge No. 679.
No. 1011-From Golden Gate Lodge No. 30.
No. 1012-From Pacific Lodge No. 136.
No. 1014-From Mount Olive Lodge No. 506.
No. 1015-From Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571.
No. 1016--From Palisades Lodge No. 637.
No. 1017-From West Lake Lodge No. 392.
No. 1018-From Friendship Lodge No. 210.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
To your Committee on Grievances there has been referred a total
number of twenty trial records. Four of these are petitions for restoration
and will be presented to you under separate reports. In three others, we
have found ourselv:es unable to agree with the findings or the recommendations of the Trial Commissions, and these likewise will be presented to
you under separate reports. Th.e remaining thirteen records, in which .
your committee has agreed with the disposition of the case in the Trial
Lodge, and as to which we therefore recommend to Grand Lodge that
they be affirmed, will be covered by this report.
Before taking up these particular records, there are three matters
which we feel should be called to the attention of those in attendance
upon Grand L odge.
Each year we have a number of matters arising under Section 332
of the Ordinances, which section deals with the matter of automatic
expulsion following conviction of a crime clasified as a felony, and which
has been followed by imprisonment. As you know, the accused in these
matters is advised by a form notice that he will stand expelled unless
within a period of sixty days he demands a trial in the Lodge. There
seems to be some misapprehension as to the nature of the trial where such
a demand has been made. It has come to the attention of the committee
that some Lodge officers have expressed the view that the only question
to be tried is whether the accused was in fact convicted of a crime classified
as a felony and imprisoned pursuant thereto. This is a false impression.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

187

In the event the accused demands a trial in his Lodge he is tried as to
his guilt or innocence on the charge which is brought a~ainst him. While
a conviction m~y be accepted as prima facie evidence of his guilt, circums~an.ces may anse, and frequently do, in which the accused may establish
his mnocence of the charge of which he was convicted in the courts. The
matter of inquiry is his guilt or innocence of the crime, and not merely
whether he has been convicted thereon.
The second matter to which we desire to refer arises as a result of
one of the rcords covered by this report. We found in one case that the
Mas~er. ~~esiding over the. trial relinquished his right to pass upon the
adm1ss1b1hty of offered ev1det;1ce to the counsel for the accuser. In this
particular case we. found that the counsel for the accuser ruled much more
liberally in his own favor than for the accused. Masters whose duty it
may be to preside over trials should exercise the full .functions of their
position, and should not relinquish them to either of the parti~s or the
representatives of either party. Likewise, we feel that those who act as
counsel for the accuser should be cautioned that their role is not that of
a persecutor. It is rather the role of a prosecutor, whose . duty it should
be to see that every right of the accused is protected and that he should
be given every opportunity to· present facts redoundi~g to his benefit.
The third matter relates to permitting nominations to be made at the
time of the selection of Trial Commissioners. This committee has several
· t~mes._ expressed to Grand Lodge its feeling that the making of nominations 1s out of harmony with the spirit of our laws governing the selection
of Trial Commissioners. However, Grand Lodge has heretofore ruled that
this alone will not constitute ground for a reversal where there has been
no miscarriage of justice. In one case covered by this report when the
Lodge was selecting its Trial Commissioners, the number of which had
been fixed at seven, one of the members of the Lodge arose and placed
seven names in nomination. The seven so nominated were selected as
Trial Commissioners. You may well imagine our surprise when on reading
the transcript of the trial itself we found that the brother who had made
the· seven nominations of Trial Commissioners was counsel for the accuser.
We would have been inclined to take cog nizance of this situation were it
not for the fact that this particular case involved a long series of e~bezzle­
ments from ~ Lodge ext~nding over a number of years, the proof of which
was conclusive, and which was also supported by a detailed confession
by the accused.
Your committee has carefully reviewed and considered the trial records
hereafter enumerated. We find in them no errors which have affected the
substantial rights of the accused, and in each of them we . feel that substantial justice has been accomplished. We may further add that a number
of these are matters involving automatic expulsion under Section 332 of
the Ordinances.
No. 996--From George Washington Lodge No. 525.
No. 1005-From Pinole Lodge No. 353.
No. 1006-From La Habra Lodge No. 659.
No. 1008-From Corona Lodge No. 324.
No. 1010-From Canby Cross Lodge No. 679.
No. 1011-From Golden Gate Lodge No. 30.
No. 1012-From Pacific Lodge No. 136.
No. 1014-From Mount Olive Lodge No. 506.
No. 1015-From Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571.
No. 1016-From Palisades Lodge No. 637.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

188

No. 1017-From Westlake Lodge No. 392.
No. 1018--From Friendship Lodge No. 210.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Trial Record No. 862, application of E. G. D. for restoration.

We therefore offer the following resolution, and move its adoption:
Be it resolved that the determinations in each of the trial records
hereinabove enumerated, and the penalties fixed therein, be, and the same
are, hereby ratified, affirmed, and approved.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK B. BELCHER,

Lours c. DRAPEAU,

L. BERRY,
L. SHELL, .

OLIN
]OE

Committee.

The committee recommended the ratification of Lodge action
m each of these cases and the report was adopted.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred the application
for reinstatement of petitioner, Trial Records No. 616 and 703, begs leave
to report as follows:
In 1929 petitioner was expelled from Alamo Lodge No. 122; when.
the matter was reviewed by Grand Lodge under Trial Record No. 616,
the finding of guilty by the Trial Commission was reversed and the matter
remanded for a new trial with directions that the specifications upon which
the trial was had be amended.
After the direction of Grand Lodge had been complied with and a
second trial was had, petitioner was again expelled on July 14, 1931, This
action of the Trial Commissioners was approved by Grand Lodge under
Trial Record No. 703.
In 1941 ari application for restoration to the rights and privileges of
Masonry was filed accompanied by recommendatory letters. Grand Lodge
denied the petition without prejudice.
This second application for restoration is also supported by additional
letters from persons who reside in Dunsmuir, California, in which place
petjtioner has lived for many years.
A representative of Dunsmuir Lodge appeared before this committee
and stated that while he did not know applicant personally, he was
acquainted with most of those who had written letters on his behalf and
that he was satisfied that they were reputable persons and would not
endorse such an application unless they were fully satisfied that petitioner
was deserving of restoration.
This committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves its
adoption:
Be it resolved that the petition of ]. M. ]. for restoration to all the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is granted and said
petitioner is hereby restored to all such rights as a Mason at large.
OLIN L. BERRY,
]OE

L. SHELL,

Lours c. DRAPEAU,
FRANK B. BELCHER,

Committee.

Adopted.

189

Expelled ] une 7, 1935, under the provisions of Section 332, Constitution and Ordinances, he having been on December 12, 1934, convicted of
the offense of forgery in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, and
thereafter having been committed to the State Prison at San Quentin;
and has subsequently been paroled therefrom.
The application is supported by a letter from the Master of Granada
Lodge stating that at its stated meeting of August 5, 1942, the Lodge
voted unanimously to petition Grand Lodge for restoration of the applicant.
It is also · supported by unreserved recommendations of the present
Master of the Lodge, the former Secretary of the Lodge, the present
Secretary, two Past Masters of the Lodge, and a Past Master of San
Gabriel Lodge, from which letters it appears that the applicant was the
first Junior Warden of Granada Lodge and later became its Master; that
those who were occasioned loss by the offense of the applicant have been
compensated for their losses; that the applicant has been re-employed by
his former employers, has purchased his own home, is supporting his
family, and is well and favorably known among his business associates,
friends, neighbors and by the community.
Your committee, while fully cognizant of the gravity of the offense
committed by the applicant, and the necessity that a convincing showing
of rehabilitation be made before restoration, believes that such showing
has been made in the instant case by those who have observed the conduct
of applicant over a period of many years.
We, therefore, recommend that the petition herein be granted and
offer the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition for restoration of the said E. G. D.,
referred to in Trial Record No. 862, be granted and that said petitioner
be restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
]OE

L. SHELL,

Lours c. DRAPEAU,
OLIN L. BERRY,
FRANK B. BELCHER,

Committee.

Adopted.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Trial Record No. 893, application of S. R. A. for restoration.
As indicated by Trial Record No. 893, the applicant was expelled
June 4, 1936, after trial on May 7, 1936, in Euclid Lodge No. 519, having
been found guilty of urtmasonic conduct, based upon specifications alleging
that the accused had defrauded a newly initiated brother of that Lodge
of the sum of $10.00, conviction being had by reason of a letter written
by the accused admitting that he was guilty of unmasonic conduct. The
trial record contains no evidence of the circumstances surrounding the
fraud alleged and admitted by the accused in his letter, and your committee
is not informed of such circumstances.
Euclid Lodge, as shown by the Minutes of May 7, 1942, and perhaps
not having in mind the provisions of Section 346, Constitution and Ordi-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

nances, voted by a more· than two-thirds vote to restore the applicant to
membership. Under Section 346, such action of the Lodge was ineffective,
it being necessary that a petition to restore, after expulsion, be presented
to Grand Lodge.

T o the Most Worshipfi1l Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial Record
No. 1007, begs leave to report as follows:

190

However, the action of the Lodge, evidenced here by a certified copy
of the Minutes, is very persuasive as to the present status of.the applicant;
his rehabilitation and the propriety of granting his application.
His application is also supported by the written recommendations of
a ·Past Master of Euclid Lodge, who was one of the Trial Commissioners
at the time of trial of the applicant.
Your committee recommends that the application be granted and
offers the following resolution:
Resolved: Th;i.t the petition of S. R. A. for restoration, referred to
in Trial Record No. 893, be granted and that said petitioner be restored
to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
} OE

L. SHELL,

Louis C. DRAPEAU,
OLIN L. BERRY,
FRANK B. BELCHER,

Committee.

Adopted.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Trial Record No. 910 involves a petition for restoration by one D. L . S.
In 1936 the petitioner was convicted of a felony and imprisoned pursuant to such conviction. He was thereafter expelled under the automatic
expulsion provi.sions of our Section 332 of Ordinances.
Following the incarceration, a great mass of material, including affidavits from various people who testified at the time of his trial, and others
who should have been witnesses but were not available at the time, was
collected and laid before the governor of this state. This material is rather
convincing to the effect that the conviction of this brother was a miscarriage of justice. As a result of these activities, the governor issued a full
and complete pardon to the petitioner, who now seeks to be reinstated.
Your committee has carefully examined this record, and in addition has
received evidence relating to the activities of the petitioner since the time
of his incarceration. Even though we might assume that his original conviction was justified, and of this we have grave doubt, the evidence is now
overwhelming to the effect that there has been a complete rehabilitation
from any· moral lapses from 'which he m;iy have been guilty.
We are therefore of the opinion that he now merits restoration, and
consequently offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Be it re5olved that D. L. S., referred to in Record No. 910, be, and he
hereby is, restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
F RANK B. BELCHER,

Lours c. D RAPEAU,
Or.IN L. BERRY,
] OE L. SHELL,

Committee.

Adopted:

191

In this matter the accused was charged with unmasonic conduct predicated on a single specification which alleges, in substance, that for m~re
than a month last past the accused has been engaged in the saloon business
;i.nd employed as a barkeeper in a public drinking house which serves
intoxicating liquors and which is not an eating place serving meals or
food to the puqlic.
·
An officer of the Lodge testified that he had visited the cocktail lounge
and observed the accused serving hard liquor to patrons; that he did not
go into the back part of the place to see if there were stoves there or any. thing like that; that only drinks were being served; that he saw no sandwiches-Just corn and pretzels; that he talked with the accused who said
they didn't want to serve food; that he explained to the accused the danger
of expulsion; that accused said he had been rejected by the shipyards and
that this was the oniy job he could get-that he had to stick to it to make
a living.
The accused was not present but the Trial Commissioners had before
them a letter from him reading as follows:
"November 12, 1941.
"To Richard B. Mortimer, Worshipful Master
"Sequoia Lodge No. 349, F. & A. M.
"Worshipfu'I Sir and Brother:
" Your summons received; however the date and time of the
trial makes it an impossibility for me to be present as Friday
evening is one of the largest evenings of the week in the• bar
business and my services are depended upon by my employer.
"This letter I desire to enter as my plea with the assistance of
someone whom I ask to be appointed as counsel for the defense.
"Guilty-yes, I'm guilty-guilty of being in a profession that
has given me an honest livelihood for more than a month past
and promises to give me a profitable income for months to come.
"Were there not men like myself who respect their job and
consider themselves to be professional hosts, catering to ladies and
gentlemen that, perhaps like yourself, enjoy an occasional drink or
. two, the bar business would be left to drop again into the hands of
thieves, liars, and cut-throats as it did during the period of time in
which the eighteenth amendment was in effect.
"Why is the bartender and bar owner to be selected as those
alone responsible for the present liquor conditions-why not the
man who owns a fleet of trucks engaged in transporting liquor,
or the man who advertises the product in his newspaper or magazine, or the man who works for the government in supervising
every phase of the liquor industry from its distillation to its ultimate consumption, are they not guilty too in support of the bar
business.
"The Til-Two does not serve food, other · than that which is
demanded by law. We do not operate on. a scale large enough to
serve meals" in the accepted sense, but our business is operated on
a far higher plane than many places that serve both food and
drink. We operate a place where you may bring your wife, <laugh-

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ter or sweetheart and know that she will not be insulted or
annoyed. Many places serving meals cannot make this . same
statement.
"The question that I ask you to consider is this: Are we to
judge a man by what he is or what his job is, by his morals or
his money, by his work life or by his home life. Are we to condemn a sober and industrious man, a man who has never been
arrested or convicted of a crime, who maintains a .home for himself
and mother, a man who is respected by those he serves, works
with and lives near as an unfit associate· of Masons and other
gentlemen simply because his work is serving liquor when serving
liquor is legal in California.
"Section 210, to which I am guilty, is in my opinion more
guilty than I because 210 discriminates between two men performing the same task in two different places of business; it is also
guilty of prejudice and narrow-min4edness.
"I ask in closing that you investigate my character, my home,
which I am providing for myself and mother. Investigate also
my personal habits, my credit standing, and the amount of respect
I receive from those whom I serve, those whom I work with and
those whom I live near. Co~pare your findings with like findings
of those who serve drink as an incidental to the serving of food
and decide are they less guilty of unmasonic conduct than I.
"Sincerely and fraternally,
" W . G.H."
No other evidence was presented. The Trial Commission found the
accused -guilty and fixed his penalty at suspension.
Section 210 of our Ordinances, so far as the pertinent provisions are
concerned, provides, in part as follows: "* * * and any Mason who may
hereafter enter upon and engage in the saloon business, either as owner,
agent or employe, except in connection with and as a part of the operation
of a bona fide hotel or restaurant, or who shall become a barkeeper, shall
be deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall, upon due trial and
conviction of said offense, forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges, including membership in any Lodge/'
The Constitution of the State of California authorizes licenses for the
sale of liquor where it is to be consumed on the premises only to a bona fide
hotel, restaurant or other public eating place. There is a presumption
that official duty has been properly performed and that an unqualified
place will not be licensed. This, however, is a rebuttable presumption and
while the Trial Commission might have found in accordance with such
presumption we feel that they were justified by the evidence in finding to
the contrary and in determining ~hat the accused was guilty of the charge.
You will recall, however, that our Section 210 provides that one guilty
of a violation thereof shall "* * * forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges,
including membership in any Lodge."
Your committee feels that this language does not permit of suspension.
The word "forfeit" is so comprehensive as, in our minds, to preclurle any
penalty other than expulsion.

193

We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved that the finding of guilty as made by the Trial Commission
be affirmed but that the penalty lie and the same hereby is fixed at
expulsion.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK B. BELCHER,
Lours
DRAPEAU,
OLIN
BERRY,
]OE L. SHELL,

c.

L.

Committee.

Adopted.
Your committee to which was referred Trial Record No. 1009 respectfully reports as follows:
Accused was charged with unmasonic conduct contained in one specification to the effect that he had fraudulently embezzled the sum of
$1,000.00 or more belonging to the Citizen's Commercial & Savings Bank
of Soquel, California. At the trial before the commissioners there was
introduced a copy of an indictment signed by the United States Attorney
to the effect that accused had been a cashier of said bank and had embezzled more than $3,500.00. He was placed on probation for three years
and, so far as the record shows, had never been imprisoned. At the conclusion of the trial the commissioners voted as follows: Guilty, 7; Not
Guilty, 0. The vote on unmasonic conduct was Guilty, 7, Not Guilty, 0.
By a vote of 3 to 4 accused was not expelled but by unanimous vote
he was suspended.
This committee is of the opinion that the penalty for such an offense
should be increased from suspension to expulsion and, accordingly, offers
the following resolution: That the action of Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38
in finding accused guilty of unmasonic conduct be and the same is hereby
affirmed but that the penalty imposed is hereby raised from suspension to
expulsion.
OLIN L. BERRY,
Louis C. DRAPEAU,
]OE

L. SHELL,

FRANK B. BELCHER,

Committee.

Adopted.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In this case your committee has had under consideration a trial which
resulted in the acquittal of the accused brother by a four-to-three vote of
the commisisoners. The record is not satisfactory because the accuser was
not represented by counsel and the accused was, and because the weight
of the evidence would sustain a finding of guilty unless certain inferences
may be made as to the mental condition of the principal witness against
the accused.
However, since the convening of Grand Lodge we have had brought
to our attention an affidavit which sets forth the fact that the trial above
referred to was upon charges filed subsequently by the same accuser
against the same accused and evidently for the same alleged offenses to
charges which had theretofore been filed with the Lodge and then withdrawn. ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

194

.
t b done Section 302 of our constitution provide~ t~at
This may no
e
·
.thd
n if they are not of a criminal

~a~::.te~:ea~~!~~ ~;~~1~h:; f ~ ~~e ;~P~~~;des asorJ~~f;r~~ ~:re~;!~d

inal in nature. In 192
ra~
. g~ al nature are filed the Master is
Master that when charge~ 0 . a ;nmm
same The reason for the
without authority to permit wh1tharav.:alt of tthfn the .truth of the charges.
rule is that the Lodge then as an m eres
(Ordinances 962.)
.
Your committee, th~refore, proposes the following resolution=.
0

Resolved, that in Trial Record No. 101L3 tdhgeeacNtioon 2~~ t~= ~r::!t~~~~
· . .
b
t
· d and that Evergreen o
·
.
m1ss1ond e set .a~1 ~ the charge and specifications first filed in this case,
procee to a na o
rmit such amendments thereto
with power on the part ~f thte ~r~~~\~~o~: the Trial Commission all the
as n~ay ~e propebr, di~ do~ e~ 0 t~ the first and second charges herein filed.
specifications em o te m

.

Lours c. DRAPEAU ,

FRANK B .• BELCHER,

JOE L. SHELL,
OLIN L. BERRY'

Committee.

Adopted.
REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC CLUB
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,
AT BERKELE:V
Most Worshipful Sir and Brethren:
At the direction of Ju?ge Murphey, bPr~sid~nt fo;l th~n!o~~d :\:;~st~
t s of the ·above Masonic Club, I su m1t t e o ow
..
f h
i~~icating briefly the activities of the Trustees· and t~~ co~d1t~~::ib~r t30e
Club House and its affairs, durirtg the fiscal year en mg ep
•
1942.
·
f 1 1
t
(a) Activities. The club has continued to f~nction as a use u ~ emen
of the student life at the university, serving social needs to ~pproxtmat~l~
600 students regularly through the past college year, a ~um. er som ~w \
reduced from the previous year by . reason of reduction m e.nro. men
because of the war conditions. Nevertheless, becau.se o~ the ~~he~ o.;.:.h e
various branches of the armed services to use the university ~n its ~c1 t te ~
1
as a training medium, for special services, our ranks cont;nu: to . e w.~
filled and our usefulness to the young men and women o ,t e un~ver.s1 y
continues. Instancing the present status of the two studen~s d o~~an~~:.~of~
which use the club house, I annex hereunto a lett~r, mar e.
x 1t •
McKinley President of the Mens Masonic Club of the
from M r. Earl C·
'
•
·
f
h . h h e been
University of California, several tliousa.nd copies o w 1c
av
·
·1 d to the men entering the university on October 1, 1942 .. Also a
~~ ~etter, marked "Exhibit 2," from Miss Natalie Be~son'. President of
the Women's Masonic Club of the University of Cah~ornta, a c.opy .of
which was mailed to each of the women students entering the university
for the first time in the October, 1942, term.
You will note that while membership. in these. two club~ is limite~ to
t d t in regular attendance who have Masomcally affiliated relatives
:nud ~~:t dues are charged for such memberships amounting; to $2.50 each

1

195

semester, plus $1.00 for initiation fee, in one case, and in the other of
$3.00 for each semester, plus $1.00 for initiation fee, that there are no further assessments and all of these ·sums are received by the students and
are spent by them for their own activitie~. No part of this money accrues
to the Trustees, nor is the expenditure thereof supervised by the Trustees,
other than through the guidance of the hostess of the club house. The
building itself is furnished and serviced entirely free for the students. You
will note also that regardless of membership in these two clubs, all persons
whether eligible for membership or not are invited to the building and
that all Masons and ·all those having Matcinic affiliations are at liberty to
visit and use the club house from time to time.
. The trustees continue to look to these organized bodies of students to
maintain the activities of the club house and to assume responsibility for
the protection of the property and the good name· of the institution. This
policy has existed from the start. It is an exemplification of the university
doctrine of student control and is a manifestation of that honor spirit
which was first instilled at the university by its late and great president,
Benjamin I. Wheeler.
I am happy to say that ·during the twenty years that I have had some
responsibility in this regard, I have found that by trusting students and
empowering them to conduct their own affairs, the club house has best
been able to engender a fine social and spiritual atmosphere. Only such
a policy is consistent with the ideals which govern a free democracy.
(b) Conditions of the Property. The past year, as heretofore, efforts
of the Trustees have been directed to the proper maintenance and preservation of the properties. The building and its furnishings are in good
shape. Repairs to the roof have been made and some foundation work
renewed. In compliance with fire and block wardens' suggestions considerable sums have been expended for black-out facilities, sand, shovels, fire
extinguishers, etc. All of this expense has been charged against our
reserves.
The certified public accountant, in his report dated October 5, 1942,
which has been submitted to your Finance Committee, shows total income
of $7,572.00; total maintenance expense of $6,828.36, plus a transfer to
reserve funds of $971.34. Leaving a net loss carried to capital and surplus
of $121.81. On the capital sheet, our assets amount to $167,549.85. These
consist in part of cash on hand, $913.46 and of reserves of $4,136.35. Bills
payable · amounted to $76.00. There are no other liabilities. All reasonable
insurance is carried on our properties.
'
(c) Old Age Insurance. Upon application 'by the Trustees, the treasury has determined that" the club house is subject to old age insurance
taxes and compliance therewith is now being made. The advantage to the
club therefrom is that some pension assurance will be given to our employees. Of these, our hostess, has served the club faithfully and with
much distinction tl)ese many years. It is my hope that she will not be
obliged to retire during this war period but the vicissitudes of life prompt
us to make provision for that hazard. The officers of the club have th.e
matter under consideration with the Finance Committee of the Grand
Lodge. I trust that no final conclusion will be necessary at this session.
Fraternally yours,
MILTON T. FARMER,

Secretary and Chairman of the
Executive Committee.

196

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

197

EXHIBIT 2
Women's Masonic Club of the University of California

EXHIBIT 1
Men's Masonic Club of the University of California
Dear Undergraduate:
The recorder's office of the University of California has informed us
that you are planning to enter the university in October. Undoubtedly ?'ou
will be planning some sort of social activity while on the campus. Smee
we believe social contact is as important as academic endeavor, we are
taking this opportunity to introeuce you to "The Club."
The Masonic Club a gift of the Masons of California to this campus,
is a large modern building, very well furnished and incorporating a spaci~us
lounge, ballroom, library, game rooms and study rooms all for the exclus.1ve
use of the members. Activities include informal afternoon and evening
dances, luncheons, firesides, and other social functions during the semester.
Two entirely separate clubs are maintained for men and women students each with its separate set of officers and additional activities. The
Men' ~ Club holds regular business meetings provided with entertainment
and refreshments and also sponsors participation in U. C. activities. In
addition, during the semester the Men's Club holds semi-formal dances and
social parties.
The following are some of the events which are to take place during
the first few weeks:
·October 14--W ednesday Dance (each Wednesday), 4 :00-6 :00 p. m.
October 16-0pen House Dance, 8:00-12 :00 p. tn.
October 18-Parents and Friends Night, 6:30-9:00 p. m.
October 19-Monday Lunch (each Monday), 12:10 p. m.
October 23-0pen House Dance, 8:00-12:00 p. m.
October 30-Initiation and Dance.
We sincerely believe that no other organization can compare with
ours in helping new students to get acquainted with the sort of people
who will eventually become valuable ;md life-long friends.
Membership in the Men's Club is limited to men in regular attendan.ce
or about to enroll in the university who have Masonically affiliated relatives. Sons, grandsons, nephews, and brothers of Masons are eligible.
Dues amount to $3.00 each semester, plus one dollar for the initiation fee;
there are no further assessments. All dues received are spent by the members for their own activities; the building is maintained by the Masonic
Order free of charge to us:
Now then, whether or not you are eligible for membership, we would
be very glad to have you visit the club either registration week or the
first two weeks of regular session, to meet some of the members and to
see our beautiful building. Enclosed is a guest card which we would like
to have you use the first two weeks, especially as an admittance card for
the first two Wednesday afternoon dances, October 4 and 21. At that time
any mmeber would be glad to show you through the building, and give
you any further information about t~e organization which you would like
to have.
Sincerely yours,
EARL C. McKINLEY, President.

•

Dear Undergraduate:
The recorder's office of the University of California has informed us
that Y?U are pla?ning to enter the university in October. Undoubtedly
you. will be plann:mg some sort of social activity on the campus. Believing
soc~al con~act as important as academic endeavor, we are taking this opportunity to introduce to you "The Club."
.
The Masonic Cl.uh! a gift of the Masons of California to this campus,
is a large modern building, very well furnished and incorporating a spacious
lounge, ballroom, library, game rooms and study rooms all for the exclusive use of the members. Lockers are also available to women members
for a small fee, and these have been found to be very convenient. The
organization is controlled entirely by the members themselves, and not
by the Masons, as many believe. Activities include informal afternoon and
eve?ing dances, lunch.eons, teas, firesides, picnics, and other social functions
durmg the semester. .
Two clubs are maintained in the club house, for men and women
students, each with its separate set of officers and additional activities.
T?e Women's Club holds regular business meetings provided with entertainment and refreshments. In addition, during the semester the Women's
Club holds a semi-formal dance, a formal tea, and other affairs.
The following are some of the events which are to take place during
the first few weeks :
October 14--Wednesday Dance (each Wednesday), 4:00-6 :00 p. m .
October 16-0pen House Dance, 8:00-12:00 p. m.
October 18-Parents and Friends Night, 6:30-9:00 p. m.
October 19-Monday Lunch (each Mon.day), 12:10 p. m.
October 23-0pen House Dance, 8:00-12:00 p. m.
October 30-Initiation and Dance.
With regard to campus prominence, our membership includes the
bod". president :ind other figures holding important · campus positions .. We s~ncerely believe that no other organization can compare with
ours m. helping new students to get acquainted with the sort of people
who will eventually become valuable and life-long friends.
s~udent

Membership in the Women's Club is limited to women students in
regular at~endance, ?r about to enroll in the university, who have Mason1cally affiliated relatives. Daughters, granddaughters nieces and sisters of
Masons are eligible. Dues amount to two and one-h~lf doll~rs each semester, plus one ?ollar for the initiation fee; there are no further assessments.
Al! ~ues .rece1:'ed .are spent by the members for their own activities; the
bu1ldmg 1s mamtamed by the Masonic Order.
Now, then, whether or n.o~ you are eligible for membership, we would
be very glad to have you vlSlt the club, either registration week or the
first two weeks of regular session, to meet some of the members and to
see our beautiful building. Enclosed are guest cards which we would like
to have yo~ use for the .first two ~ ednesday and Friday dances. Also, be
sure ~o bring your parents and friends to our Sunday evening program
and hght supper, October 18.

198

?.lWCEEDINGS OF TiIE

At any time there will be members at the club to show Y?U ~hrough
the building and give you further information about the organization.
Sincer.e ly yours,
NATALIE BEESON, President.

The report was adopted except that p~rti,on request.ing an
appropriation, which was referred to the Finance Committee.
Br'other Milton D. Farmer, who presented the report, also
read a letter of greetings from James S. Caswell, president of
the Masonic Club Council of the Clubhouse.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

·199

ANNUAL REPORT OF TRUSTEES · OF THE
MASONIC HOMES

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes ·of California herewith present the
fiftieth annual report for the year ending' July 31, 1942, together with the
reports of the Superintendents of our Homes, and the financial reports of
the Secretary and Treasurer.
The Board of Trustees met on ·October 17, 1941, after the adjournment
of Grand Lodge with the· following members present.:
Charles M. Wollenberg (term expires 1942).
James B. Gist (term expires 1943) .
Samuel E. Burke (term expires 1944).
Chari~ Albert Adams (term expires 1945).
Leslie E. Wood, Deputy Grand Master.
Claude H. Morrison, Senior ,Grand Warden.
Gilbert C. DeForest, Junior Grand Warden.
The reappointment of Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams to
the Board of Trustees for a four-year term commencing October 17, 1941,
and the election of Leslie E. Wood, Deputy Grand Master; Claude H. Morrison, Senior Grand Warden; Gilbert C. DeForest, Junior Grand Warden,
were formally reported to the board.
The board then organized for the ensuing year by electing the following
officers:
Charles M. Wollenberg, President.
James B. Gist, Vice President.
By virtue of his re-election as Treasurer of the Grand Lodge, F . & A. M.
of 'California, William P. Filmer remains Treasurer of the Masonic Homes
of California.
By virtue of his election as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge, F. &
A. M. of California, Lloyd E . Wilson became Secretary of the Ma~onic
Homes of California Board of Trustees.
Population
The various governmental assistance programs continues to have a
marked effect on the population of our Homes. As of our last annual report,
the population of the Home at Decato was 300, today we have 305 aged
residents at the Home. We can expect an increased demand for admission
as members of the Craft are drawn into the armed services and ask assistance in caring for an aged mother, and again due to the high cost of living,
those on Old Age Assistance find that $40.00 will not meet their requirements and ask for the security of the Home.
At Covina our population has decreased .from 114 reported in 1941 to
95 reported herewith. Here also it might be that, as the war services take
the younger men, we will be requested to provide the security of the Home
for their children.

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

War Activities
Since Pearl Harber we have, like all America, had to meet war conditions. · The Civil Defense Councils of both Los Angeles and Alameda
Counties designated our hospital units .as Casualty Stations and we at once
prepared to serve our communities in case of disaster. We have provided
all equipment necessary to safeguard our properties and under our efficient
Superintendents have trained and instructed our personnel and residents.
We have set up a plan whereby if dariger threatens we will cover our
holdings with war risk insuranc.
In the Service
The Alumni of the Home is well represented in the armed service of
our country. We give you herewith some sixty odd fro·m whom we have
heard; undoubtedly others are in the service:
Alumni of Masonic Home for Children Now in the Armed Forces
of the United States
(Years indicated after each name refer to those spent in Masonic · Home)
Aby, Robert, 1921-1930, San Jose Lodge No. 10 ; Sergeant U. S. Army;
appointed for officers'. training, che111ical warfare, September, 1942.
Anderson, Alvin, 1925-1931, Apollo Lodge No. 396; First Lieutenant U. S.
Army; Alaska.
·
Anderson, Walter; 1925-1931, Apollo Lodge No. 396; U.S. Navy.
Arrington, James W., 1927-1931, Needles Lodge No. 326; U. S. Army ; in
officers' training.
Athan, Byron D ., 1927-1936, Petaluma Lodge No. 180; Second Lieutenant
U. S. Army; Alaska.
Birnbaum, Arthur, 1936-1941, Menorah Lodge No. 623; U. S. Marines.
Boast, Alvinj 1924-1931, Roseville Lodge No. 222; U . S. Navy.
Bowen, Alvin, 1936-1941, Arlington Lodge No. 414; U. S. Navy.
Boyer, Clarence, 1930-1938, Alhambra Lodge No. 322; Second Lieutenant
U. S. Army; graduated Flying School, Lake Charles, La., August, 1942.
Bundy, Harold, 1911-1914, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241; U. S. Army, Lieut.
• Colonel.
Burgen, Fred, 1932-1940, Alhambra Lodge No. 322; U. S. Army; Australia.
Chapin, Robert, 1922-1933, Redwood City Lodge No. 168; U . S. Army; Field
Artillery.
Chapin, William, 1922-1931, Redwood City Lodge No. 168; U. S. Navy; is a
machinist stationed at Naval Reserve, Little Creek, Va.
Cooksey, John E:, 1932-1939, No_rth Star Lodge No. 91; Sergeant U. S.
Army; in Philippines until Bataan; escaped to Java, later to Australia.
Countryman, Robert, 1930-1937, Occidental Lodge No. 22; U. S. Army;
A via ti on Cadet Detachment.
Cox, Clark, 1925-1927, Center Lodge No. 465; U. S. Navy; has been in Navy
nine years; rating: Chief Radioman.
Crawford, Robert, 1932-1941, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202; u·. S. Navy.
Cuniberti, Remo, 1928-1939, Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219; U . S. Navy;
saw active service in the Battle of Pearl Harbor, the Battle of Gilbert

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

201

202

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and Marshal Islands, ~nd the Battle of the Coral Sea; is now in Florida,
training for subchaser duty.
Day, John A., 1924-1932, Lompoc Lodge No. 262; Corporal U. S. Army.
Dobson, Glenn Booth, 1940, Torrance Lodge No. 447; U. S. Navy.
Edwardes, Arthur F., 1925-1928, Richmond Lodge No. 375; First Lieutenant
U. S. Army; is a senior at U. S. C. School of Medicine; will graduate
February, 1943.
Elliott, Willard, 1934-1937, Euclid Lodge No. 519 ; U.S. Navy.
Falkenrath, John A., 1932-1937, Larchmont Lodge No. 614; Second Lieutenant U. S. Army.
·
Firgens, Herb, 1932-1938, Monrovia Lodge No. 308; U. S. Coast Guard.
Fuller, Harry, 1935-1941, Mount Olive Lodge No. 506; U. S. Army; in training for flight engineer.
Gittings, George H., 1929-1933, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296; Sergeant U. S.
Army.
Gorbett, William, 1928-1938, Ontario Lodge No. 301; Merchant Marine;
is third-class engineer on a tanker.
Hayward, Kirk, 1926-1930, Burlingame Lodge No. 400; U._S. Army; is in
training to be a flier.
Hocks, Russell, 1927-1936, Occidental Lodge No. 22; U.S. Navy; had served
a four-year enlistment in Navy, discharged October, 1941; has re-enlisted.
Hopkins, Hugh A., 1925-1935, Santa Paula Lodge No. 291; U.S. Navy.
Jones, Richard R., 1934-1941, Orange Grove Lodge No. 293; U. S. Navy.
Kathan, Fred, 1932-1933, Security Lodge No. 581; U. S. Marines.
Lidell, Samuel, 1931-1940, Pasadena Lodge No. 272; Sergeant U. S. Army.
Lord, Edmund J., 1929-1939, Golden West Lodge No. 455; Sergeant U. S.
Marines.
Lounsbury, Harold, 1935-1940, Yosemite Lodge No. 99; U. S. Navy.
Lounsbury, William, 1935-1938, Yosemite Lodge No. 99; U. S. Navy.
Mark, John, 1929- 1938, Whittier Lodge No. 323; U. S. Army; Australia.
McKinnon, John P., 1924-1938, Sequoia Lodge No. 349; Second Lieutenant
U. S. Army; graduated September, 1942, Air Corps Pilots Training.
McLean, Norman, 1932-1942, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44; U. S. Navy.
McNamara, Edward, 1930-1934, Humboldt Lodge No. 79; U. S. Marines.
Merrill, Grayson, 1921-1929, Highland Park No. 382; Lieutenant U.S. Navy;
has completed a naval radio communiCation course at Annapolis and
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Myers, Harvey, 1932-1940, University Lodge No. 394; U. S. Army; has been
on police duty at San Luis Obispo.
_
Myers, Lawrence, 1932-1934, University Lodge No. 394; Second Lieutenant ~
U.S. Army.
Myers, Wilbur, 1932-1935, University Lodge No. 394; Corporal U. S. Army;
is in charge of transportation for the company.
Nelson, Alva. Lee, 1930-1939, Montebello Lodge No. 451; U. S. Navy.
Norrell, Claude, 1931-1934, East San Diego Lodge No. 561; U. S. Army;
Finance Department candidate for officers' training.
Peterson, Ralph F., 1935-1939, Victorville Lodge No. 634; U. S. Army.
Prewett, Norman, 1928-1937, Sisson Lodge No. 310; U. S. Army.
Reynolds, Earl, 1928-1930, Live Oak Lodge No. 61; U. S. Army.
'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

203

Rich.ar?son, Joseph, 1928-1937, Golden State Lodge No. 358; U. S. Army;
is m. a W eapo~s Troop; is attending radio school; plans to be transfer. red into the Air Corps, to become r adio operator on pursuit plane.
Riddell, Edwin, 1930·1937, Amity Lodge No. 370; U. S. Coast Guard· second class petty officer.
·
'
Rouch, Melvin, 1926-1935, Traver Lodge No. 394; Second Lieutenant U. S.
Army; graduated August, 1942, from Roswell Army Flying School Roswell, N. M.
'
Runkle, Rober_t L., 1925-1935, Lompoc Lodge No. 262; U.S. Army; training
to be an aircraft mechanic.
·
Schulte, Carl 0., 1925-1932, Hermann Lodge No. 127; U . S. Army.
Schulte, Helen, 1925-1936, Hermann L odge No. 127; Lieutenant U. S.
Army; nurse.
Shoupe, Billee, 1927-1934, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241; Sergeant U. S. Army.
Simon, Ted, 1926-1935, Ocean Park Lodge No. 369; U. S. Army.
Smith, Robert, 1933-1938, Fullerton Lodge No. 339; U. S. Navy.
Smith, Walter'. 1933-1.934'. Ocean Park Lodge No. 369; U.S. Navy; lost at
s~a following action m the performance of his duty in the service of
his country.
Taylor, Ffoy~, 1922-1937, Woodstock L odge No. 491; U . S. Army; taking
a c~u:se m Army administration work; waiting to go to Signal Corps
Trammg School at Ft. Monmouth, N. J.
Taylor, Charles Vaughn, 1921-1933, Woodstock Lodge No. 491 · U. S.
Army; Alaska.
'
Watts, Jack, 1932-1938, America Lodge No. 475; U.S. Navy.
Weston.' Robe.rt, 1?40-~9~1, John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657; U. s. Navy;
takmg officers trammg U. S. "Navy Service School, Dearborn, Mich.
In additio~ _we would mention a few whose services to the war effort
deserve recognition :
Newell Brown, 1910-1915, Wilmington Lodge No. 198, has been in
England for many mont~s, a mei:iber '?f the Civilian Technical Corps with
the rank of sergeant. His work 1s rad10 and interceptor maintenance. On
May 23 he was speaker on a broadcast for the American Eagle Club in
London to the United States.
Wallace ~ounds, 1931-1938, Fullerton Lodge No. 339, left college,
where he v:as m Navy Reserve, to man an assembly and repair plant for the
Douglas Aircraft Corp. at Asmara, Eritrea, Africa. He writes, "We will not
evacuate unless Cairo falls."
A Civilian Hero
Ben Helwig, 1934-1936, Orange Grove Lodge No. 293.
. In this time when heroic deeds are so much in our minds, I should
like to ~peak of one o~ ~mr former children, not in uniform, whose heroism
under disastrous cond1t1ons should be an inspiration to us all.
Ben Helwig entered the Home in 1927 from Orange Grove Lodge
No. 293. He was then eight years old. W hen he was sixteen years old
he suffer~d an acciden~al eye injury on the playground. In spite of the
b~st .~ed1cal and surgical care, the injury resulted in complete loss of
his VIS!On.

We !>laced him in the California School for the Blind at Berkeley,
where he remained until he graduated at the age of twenty. Following

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

this he attended the Oakland Technical High School, where, despite his
handicap, he was able to complete with credit a course in mechanical
work in June, 1941. He then returned to his moth~r's h01_ne in Lo.s Angel.es.
By means of our Scholarship Fund he was provided with a trained gmde
dog, which enabled him to find his way about Los Angeles.
With the development of the national defense program h.e desi;ed to
obtain some mechanical equipment, particularly a lathe and its adjuncts.
Through the generosity of interested donors he was provide? ~ith_ what
he asked for. With these he went to work in a small out-bmlding in the
rear of his mother.' s home. At the same time he applied for a job in a
machine shop located in the neighborhood. Th~ ma~hine sho~ yropriet~r
visited him in his work shop and discovered his skill and ab1hty. He is
now working in this machine shop as an inspector. of alu~inum alloy
cable drums for aileron controls in Douglas warplanes. His pluck and
determination have attracted considerable public attention and have been
made the subject of illustrated stories in the Los Angeles Times and in
the Flying Aces Magazine.
Many more of our girls and boys are in war work. It is a privilege to
read the many 'interesting letters received fro~ them. a~ the ~ome. We
include one at this point and we are sure you will find 1t interesting.

a car back in · the States, because if I get killed here it would be
the same if -1 was back there; probably been in a car wreck back
there though. . . .

204

Jack Cooksey, who graduated from the home in . 1939. So~n. after
graduation he enlisted in the Army and went to March Field, for training as
a bombardier.
His mother, in a recent letter to us, says:
"He is a bombardier on one of the 93rd Bombing Squadron
flying fortresses. When last heard from he was stationed at Melbourne, Australia. He has the rank of master sergeant. He was in
Manila when war broke out; and his pal, who went through bombing school with him, was killed not ten feet from Jack.
"He has been all over and has seen so much. . . . He and
six other boys were awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for
their flight from the Philippines to Australia (via Java).
"We are very proud of him and all the boys from the Home.
I think you did a wonderful job with them all, and especially our
boy. I know he would be very much pleased to hear from you."
Jack's mother includes also a letter which he wrote her under date of
January 6, 1942. This letter was written from Java:
"Well folks, here's your darling son still alive and kicking.
Have been through a lot of experiences. Have been bombed, shot
at, and have been on eight bombing missions. I have seen some
of my best friends killed before my eyes, but it has taught me a
lot that I will never forget. I have been through about four different countries in about two· weeks:
"We pulled a raid a couple of days ago and caught the Jap
fleet sleeping, sunk about three ships and disabled two; one of them ·
was a battleship and we made three direct hits on it, two on deck
and one at the waterline. We are using six hundred pounders.
Sure was fun.
"Don't know how long I'll last in this war but have made out
an allowance to you of fifty dollars a month; save it until you hear
that I am gone, then do what you want with it. Don't worry about
me as I am really not taking any more risk than if I was driving

205

"Don't believe all you hear over the radio about the great Jap
arrr:y, as they really aren't doing so good considering the small
resistance they are meeting. If we had more planes we would whip
them right quick, no fooling."
Employees
Both Ho~es have experienced a shortage of labor occasioned by
employees leaving for other employment and the impossibility of replacements due to war demands. With the children at Covina the situation is
not as acute as at the Home for our Aged, as it is possible to assign the
youngsters to meet the emergency and theirs is a willing response. At
Decato the situation is more serious; three hundred and five residents, all
aged, some bedfast and others suffering from various crippling ailments
must be cared for in hospital, dining room and quarters. N evei:theless,
there are many of our residents who are physically able to assist in this
emergency and many do. All on admission have signed an agreement to
perform such work as he or she might be physically able to undertake.
Your Trustees are going to hold our Home group to this agreement and
insist that all able to render such service to their home as conditions demand.
It is not only their obligation but a war service.
Finances
The report of our financial condition indicates a surplus for the year
of $37, 100.00. This in spite of increased cost of labor and commodities;
largely due to an increase of fees from initiates and increased income from
securities, and enforced savings by sugar rationing and shortage of other
commodities.
Number of Residents as of August 31, 1942

Decato Home:
Men
Residents, September 1, 1941.......................................... 157
Admitted .............................................................................. 25
Died or withdrawn.............................................................. 27
Residents, August 31, }942...-........................................... 155

Women
143
20
13
150

Total
300
45
40
305

Covina Home:
Boys
Residents, September 1, 1941............:............................. 74
A~mitted ........................................,.....................................
6
Departed .............................................................................. 22
Residents, August 31, 1942............................................... 58

Girls
40
4

Total
114
10
29
95

•

7
37

Per Capita Cost

Sta_tement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal Year
Ending July 31, 1942
D~coto Home, 1942:
Cost of maintenance.. :................................................................. :.............$127,823.05
Average number of. residents.........- ..............................:.................._......
300
Average operating cost per month .............................................:."......... 10,651.92

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Average cost per day...................................................................,...,.........
Average cost per resident per year ........................................................
Average cost per resident per month ....................................................
Average cost per resident per day........................................................
Average number of employees......................•.........""..............................

355.06
426.08
35.51
1.18
56

The maintenance cost includes general maintenance, hospital, farm,
laundry, payroll and general expense, less direct revenue, farm produce
consumed and sundry revenues.

i:

Covina Home, 1942:
93 88
Cost of maintenance....:··'-.·····,······························································:.....$ ,0
Average number of residents ............................................,.....................
_
7,757 34
Average operating cost per month........................................................
258.58
_Average cost per d a!................................................................................
845.76
Average cost per ch_1ld per year ................·······:····································
70.48
Average cost per child per month........................................................
.
Average cost per child per day ................ ,.............................................
2.~~
Average number of employees ...............................,..............................
The maintenance cost includes care of children, admi~istrati?n expense,
farm expense, less farm produce co~sumed and sold outside, miscellaneous
credits appertaining to the direct mamtenance of the Home.
Recommendation
The cost of commodities and labor for the coming .year is.too uncertain
to permit the recommendation of a reduction in our per capita allowance,
and we, therefore, request a continuance of an assessment of 40 cents for
the coming year.
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG,

207

Schedule B-5: Statement of the C. N. Flint Annuity Fund.
Schedule B-6: Statement of the C. N. Flint Annuity "Morgan" Fund.
Schedule B-7: Statement of the George and Harriet Wadleigh Annuity
Fund.
Schedule B-8 : Statement of the Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund.
Schedule B-9: Statement of the Charles L. Patton Reserve Fund.
Schedule B-10 : Statement of Sundry Funds.
Statements of Revenue and Expense
Exhibit C:
Statement of Revenue and Expense.
Exhibit D:
Statement "of Direct Operating Expense-Decato.
Exhibit E:
Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina.
Schedule D-1: . Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail, Deco to.
Schedule E-1: Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail, Covina.
Comments
Cash:
All recorded receipts were properly accounted for and deposited in the
banks. Disbursements were made by checks and supported by proper
vouchers. Bank balances were verified by correspondence with the deposit aries.
The net surplus cash as at July 31, 1942, per our Exhibit B, was
$24,360.24, as computed below.
Total cash ............:..................;.........._. ............._,...., .......,.....,.•.....,.....r,.-··.-···¥·$ 35,517.67
Less, amount due to other funds
Due to other funds ..............................;............,.........$ 11,184.80
Less, due from other funds .................................... ~
27.37
11,157.43
Net surplus cash.:...................:··································-························$ 24,360.24

JAMES B. GIST,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS;

E. BURKE,
E. Woon,

SAMUEL
LESLIE

CLAUDE H. MORRISON,
GILBERT

c. DEFOREST,

Trustees.

Report o~ Auditors

To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California:
Gentlemen:
.
We have audited the books and records of the Masonic Homes. of
California for the fiscal year .ended .J uly 31, 1942, and present the following
statements:
Statements of Funds and Properties
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit A:
Balance Sheet, General Fund, July 31, 1942.
Exhibit B:
Schedule B-1: Statement of Securities, Insurance Policies and Notes
Receivable, General Fund.
.
Schedule B-2: Statement of the Entertainment Fund.
Schedule B-3: Statement of the Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund.
Schedule · B-4: Statement of the C. N. Flint Trust Fund.

Securities, Real Estate, Etc.:
All of the securities, etc., listed under Schedule B-1 have been received
by donation. The book value represents the market value at the time of
donation. A nominal value of $1.00 is used for purpose of record when the
actual value is unknown.
Notes and contracts receivable are listed at the unpaid balance as at
July 31, 1942.
Life insurance policies, received mainly from residents of the Homes,
have been recorded at the amount recoverable at the death of the insured,
if determinable; otherwise at a nominal value of $1.00.
Real estate has been recorded at the assessed value as taken from the
tax bills up until the past year. Due to the constant fluctuation in real
estate values, and to avoid reporting book losses resulting from such fluct uation when as a fact no actual loss had occurred, all real estate donated
during the past year has been recorded on the books for record purposes
at a nominal value of $1.00.
The stocks and bonds and some of the notes are held by the Anglo
California National Bank for safekeeping. These we~e verified by certificat ion from the bank. The,.remainder of the notes and the iilsurance policies
are held at the office of the Homes Secretary and were inspected by us.

.

. .. .,

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Trust and Annuity Funds:
Under Schedules B-4, B-5, B-6, B-7 and B-8 are shown the details of
the various trust and annuity funds. Payments due from these · funds in
accordance with the contracts and agreements were made from the Homes
General Fund. Reimbursements were later made to the General Fund from
the various trust and annuity funds.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

209

Endowment Fund income:
Regular fund ......................................$ 37,448.69
Luckenbach fund ................................ 2,363.75

39,812.44

All bank balances and securities of these funds were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.

General maintenance (income from,
and proceeds from sales of, securities, real estate, insurance policies,
etc., turned over to the Homes) ......

25,052.51

Total Funds of the Homes:

Contributions paid through Lodges:

A summary of all funds as at ] uly 31, 1942, is shown below:
Homes General Fund (Exhibit B) ..,...................................................$2,512.600.64
Entertainment Fund (Schedule B-2)..................................................
2,155:89
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund (Schedule B-3)................
49,143.94
C. N. Flint Trust Fund (Schedule B-4)............................................ 156,238.83
Charles L. Patton Reserve Fund (Schedule B-9)..........................
45,331.60
Special Entertainment Fund for Decoto Residents (Schedule
B-10) .,.......... - ...............................:...................................................
?,350.58
Annuity Funds ..............................,.,........................:.............................. 153,751.15
Endowment Fund .......................,.......................................................... 1,366,232.17
TotaL.:.........~...........:...........................:......................................$4,287,804.80
General:
Sufficient examination and tests were made of the revenue and expense
accounts to satisfy ourselves as to the general correctness of the accounting. Detailed distribution of the operating expenses of the Homes were
made by the Decoto and Covina offices and were accepted as correct after
we had verified amounts by totals.
.
Certificate:
W ·e . certify that, in our opinion, subject to the foregoing comments,
th'e attached statements set forth the financial condition of the Masonic
Homes of California as at ] uly 31, 1942, and the result of operations for
the year.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB,
Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.
Exhibit A
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
General FundCash balance, August 1, 1941...............~........;....:....................................$ 27,221.45

Receipts
From Revenue Accounts :
1941 annual returns:
Maintenance special levy.... ~.............$ 48,743.60
Constitutional requirement .............. 60,929.50
$25.00 Homes contributions.............. 96,995.00 $206,668.l O

5,729.75
~~; g~~f~~ :::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ 6,743.67

12,473.42

State aid for Covina................................
Care of employees' children..................
Outside relief, not eiigible for Homes
relief, reimbursed by .Grand Lodge
Funeral expense refunds.................... ..

5,330.00
4,531.10

Miscellaneous income:
Farm sales, Decoto............................$
116.00
Farm rent, Decoto..............................
609.87
Salvage sold, Decoto..........................
389.88
Farm sales, Covina.............................
3,636.89
Sundry income, Covina....................
401.83
Interest received ................................
134.54

5,289.01

7,132.39
334.00

Total cash from revenue accounts ..................$306,622.97
Reimbursements from trust funds:
The three C. N. Flint funds ............$ 5,332.37
The two Wadleigh funds..................
3,125.00

8,457.37

For account of other funds:
Entertainment fund ..........................$ 8,236.06
Students' Loan fund ...................:.....;
1,271.77
Endowment fund ..............................
805.00
Patton fund ........................................
462.00
Decoto residents' special entertainment fund ........................................
425.46
Beverly Management Association..
1,485.00

12,685.29

Total receipts ..........................................................................

327,765.63

Total cash to account for .........~ ................................................$354,987.08

Disbursements
Expense accounts:
Operating expense, Decoto....................... ,..............$)32,227.09
Operating expense, Covina.0. ...................: ..... .-......... 97,752.60
Outside relief .............................................................. 19,913.00
Outside care of children............................................ 3,249.60
General maintenance (insurance, \axes a9d
other expense on property turned over to the
Homes) ....................................................................
1,780.38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

210

Funeral expenses ........................................................
Administrative and general expense:
Taxes .. .
$
Insurance ..........................................
Field investigation expense:
Northern district ........................
Southern district ........................
Reimbursed Grand Lodge, secretary's and assistant's salaries....
Trustees' expense ..........................
Auditing ..........................................
Safekeeping of securities..............
Office supplies and printing........
Northern field worker's office
furniture ........................................
Miscellaneous ·---------·······················

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3,599.45

Securities, real estate, etc. (donated):
General Fund securities (Schedule B-1) .....:..._.:,:.;......:..:..:. .•.:.;_::,.$ 57,232.71
Real estate (see comments) ....... .
6,094.00

3,598.78
2,261.64
2,288.54

Due from other funds:
C. N. Flint trust fund ....................

2,797.60
1,800.00
800.57
550.00
250.00
321.11
245.70
50.98

Total expense accounts ......:............. :....... _. .......$273,487.04
Trust funds, to be reimbursed:
The three C. N . Flint funds ............ $
The two Wadleigh funds..................

3,495.56
3,125.00

For account of other funds:
Patton fund .............. :....•..............,.....$
262.00
Entertainment fund ............................ 6,087.17
Students' Loan fund ......................... . 26,851.53
424.54
Residents' deposits, Decoto............. .
Endowment fund :...............................
790.31
Beverly Management Association ..
1,485.00
Expenses to be reimbursed ......................

6,620.56

Suspense items:
Expenses to be refunded ..............

6,871.73

13.00

LiabilitiesDue to other funds:
Students' loan fund .•............................•.............•.....$ 4,018.08
Residents' deposits fund ........................................
1,855.25
Decoto residents' special entertainme_nt fund .. 2,350.58
Entertainment fund ............................................... . 2,155.89
Endowment fund .............:......................................
805.00

35,900.55

..

1,150.00

11,184.80

Excess of assets over liabilities..................................._. ................ $2,512,600.64
1,298.76

.

2,448.76

Cap-ital AccountsBalance, August 1, 1941 .................-....... ,, ..............................................$2,489,658.37

999.50

Total disbursements ..............................................................

319,469.41

Cash balance, July 31, 1942.........•............................................................ $ 35,517.67
Exhibit B
Balance Sheet, General Fund, July 31, 1942

AssetsCash :
In banks (see comments) ............$
Revolving funds, Decoto and
Covina ..........................................

5,770.75
1,100.98

2,418,028.96

Total assets ....,.........................................................................$2,523,785.44

13.00

Securities:
Paid loan on donated life insurance
policy ·······················'························$
Paid mortgage on .donated real
estate ............................................... .
Freight elevator for Decoto ................... .

Stores and supplies:
Decoto ..................... :........................$
Covina ..............................................

63,326.71

27.37

Properties (at cost, no depreciation taken) :
Land, buildings and equipment,
Decoto ........................................$1,788,838.98
Land, buildings and equipment,
Covina .......................................... 606,093.98
Land and improvements, Camp
Tucker ........................................
23,096.00

• 14,964.92

211

34,517.67

Add:
Excess of revenue over expense 1941-42
(Exhibit C) ...•.... ,......,...········:·········.···············•····•~$ 37,100.06
Securities and real estate donated 1941-42.......... 1,686.00

38,786.06

Total ···················································'···············."...................... $2,528,444.43
Deduct:
Book value of securities and real estate sold 1941-42. Entire proceeds recorded as revenue.:...........................................

15,843.79

Balance, July 31, 1942 .................................................................... $2,512,600.64

1,000.00 $ · 35,517.67

•.

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Insurance policies donated:

Schedule B-1
Statement of Securities, Insurance Policies and Notes and Contracts
Receivable, General Fund, July 31, 1942
Stock Donated:
Book Val!te
Shares
Ambassador Hotel Co. of L. A., part certificate ........$
1.00
5
Anglo California National Bank, common....................
320.00
30
Anglo California Corporation, Class A, common........
il0.00
10
10
Bank of America, N. T. and S. A .....:.......................:_.....
502.50
Bancamerica-Blair Corporation........................................
1.00
3
Cities Service Company......................................................
16.00
4
12
Coen Companies, Incorporated, Class A ...................:....
1.00
Daily News Corporation, Class C, common..................
3.00
3
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., common........................
1
25.00
4
Graton & Knight Co., preferred......................................
400.00
Graton & Knight Co., common........................................
10.00
10
103
Home Insurance Co. of New Yark ......................... .'.....
3,350.00
Kern County Mutual Building & Loan Assn.............
1,500.00
15
Lloyd Oil Corporation........................................................
70.00
70
2
McKean Canning Co., Inc.................................................
200.00
1.00
Marysville Hotel Co.............................................................
2
Masonic Hall Association of Alameda............................
60.00
6
Masonic Temple Association of Stockton......................
1.00
2
Midway Oil Co.:.......................................... :........................
1.00
50
1
National Leather Co., preferred........................................
100.00
National Leather Co., common ........................................
50.00
5
100
North American Investment Corporation, common..
150.00
North American Oil Consolidated..................................
437.50
50
Orinda Petroleum Company, Ltd., Class A, common
44.00
2
Pacific Public Service Company, common....................
200.00
50
37.08
1853 1/100 Pacific Empire Holdings....................................................
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% preferred......................
350.00
14
Southern California Edison Co., Ltd., common..........
100.00
4
6.00
Stoney, Rouleau & Stoney, Inc., common....................
6
Texon Oil & Land Co.......................................................
7.00
7
Transamerica Corporation ................................................
1,626.50
140
1.00
8/ 100 United Cigar-Whelan Stores Corp., common................
United Stores Corp., Class A ....................................... :....
1.00
1
Walworth Company, common ............................ ,.............
475.00
100
Tot<i;l stocks .... :...............................................................$ 10,157.58
Bonds donated:
$ 500 Ambassador Hotel Co., income mtge., 1950........................ $
214.00
1,500.00
1500 Market St. Railway Co., first _mtge., S. F., 5%, 1945 ......... .
160.00
1000 Tilden Lumber & Mill Co., S. F., 6~%, 1946.................... ..
Total bonds .................................... -" ................................ $

213

1,874.00

Building and Loan Certificates donated:
Pacific States Savings & Loan Co ..................:..............................$
San Jose Building & Loan Assn. and Pioneer Investors, Inc.,
note ......................................................................~: ...................... ..
Southern California Building & Loan Assn ............................... ..

1,211.28
800.00

Total building and loan certificates ...................................... :.$

2,630.03

618.75

Acacia Life Insurance Co.i..~···· ..····:··-...................,.........:.. "' .....-$
Al Malaikah Auditorium ~-~- .......... .: ...•., ......:..............................
Balder Relief Association.... :.............................................................
Conservative Life Insurance Co.......................:.. ~ ......................... .
Equitable Fraternal Union ............................................................ ..
Low Twelve Club of Pasw.n a ........................................................
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co...:.................................................
Metropolitan Insurance Co., S. P. Group ......................'............. .
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York ($5,073 less $1675
loan) ..............................................................................................
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Co................................................ .
Parnassus Mutual Benefit ·F und ............................. :........................
Presbyterian Ministers' Fund (principal sum uncertain,
$3,107 loan) ................................................................................. .
Prudential Insurance Co. of America (10 policies) ................. .

3,500.00
2,761 .68

Widows and Orphans Fund:
Aahmes Temple (2 policies, $1500 each) ............................ ..
Burlingame Lodge No. 400..................................................... .
California Bodies, Scottish Rite ............................................. .
Islam Temple ..............................................................................

3,000.00
400.00
1,000.00
3,000.00

Additions 1941-42:
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., face $500 ...............:....... .
New York Life Insurance Co................................... 1........... . .

1.00
2,000.00

1,000.00
100.00
225.00
77.00
1,073.25
1.00
196.00
1,250.00
3,398.00
1,000.00
300.00

Total insurance policies .................................................... $ 24,282.93
Notes and contracts receivable (arising from donated notes and
sales of donated property):
Andrus, John R. and Jean :K;...... __•• ,.................. ,...........................$
Baxley, Webster and Ann ........................................................ :... ,.. .
Bergstrom, Alfred T. and Minnie..................................................
Byer, Otto L. and Erna.................................................. :.................
Calvary Baptist Church, Wayburn, Saskatchewan, Canada,
guaranteed by second mortgage............................................. .
Dias, John M. and Irene D .............................................................'
Gordon, Archie and Josephine ....................................................... .
Groo, David E. and M. Frances .................................................. ..
Hague, Ole and Lillian ..................................................................... .
Herrick, Kennan C. and Virginia B ......... ,.....................................
Hoag, George H. and Esther A .................................................... .
Leask, Samuel ........................................................................... .': ...... .
Lerza, Manfred and Lucy............................................................... .
Oliver, Archie A .................................................................................. .
Taylor, Theodore B. and Launena............................................... .

1,050.00
159.50
899.00
1,000.00
548.17
782.76
2,895.11
75.00
950.00
137.50
2,407.84

Acq\lired 1941-42:
Pi~e, George S. and Lovilla K. (Patchell property) ...... ..
Spiegelman, L. L. (Ford property) .................................... ..

1,447.23
1,500.00

935.24
589.47
960.00
1,951.35

Total notes and contracts.................................................. $ 18,288.17
Total securities, insurance policies, notes and contracts ........ $ 57,232.71

GRAND LODGE O~ CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

214

Schedule B-2
Summarized Statement of Entertainment Fund for the Fiscal
Year Ended July 31, 1942
Balance, August 1, 1941 (overdrawn) ... ,.................................•.............. $ 4,233.29
Receipts:
From Decoto special entertainment fund ............$ 4,233.29
Donations .......................................................... ,......... 7,089.59
Balance of Beverly Management Association
1,153.47
donation .............................. ;...........,. .....................

Stocks:
527 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co. 6% preferred ...................................................~............
250 shares Southern California Edison Co. 6%
preferred ..........................................................

215

14,000.00
5,000.00

Total ................. :..... ~ .........................•............•.......$ 39,750.00
Less reserve for amortization of bond premium
17.89
12,476.35

Net book value ..............................................•............................. $ 39,732.11
Due from Homes General Fund............................................................
4,018.08

Total .............•...................................................-....;...•. , .......... ,.........$ 8,243.06

Balance, July 31, 1942 (as above) .........................................c••••••••••••• .-•• $ 49,143.94

Disbursements:
Decoto Christmas ..........................:......... :.,... :...........$ 2,107.00
562.03
Decoto entertainment ...................•............................
Covina entertainment ................................................ 3,418.14

6,087.17

Schedule B-4
Summarized Statement of C. N. Flint Trust Fund for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942

Balance, July 31, 1942 (due from General FtJrid) ..............................$

2;155.89

Balance, August 1, 1941 ........................................... :..................•............$151,956.31

Schedule B-3
Summarized Statement of Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund
for the Fiscal Year Ended July ,31, 1942
Balance, August 1, 1941.............. :................................. ~ ..........c••••••••••••...•$ 48,597.84
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments ...........: .. :............ >.•••••••$
Less, reserved for amortization of
bond premiums ..........................

Add:
Dividends and interest from investments . ~........•.......................$ 5,627.08
Less reserve for amortization of
bond premiums ........................
912.68 $

4,714.40

Rental of house ................................................... .
Profit from sale of securities ........................... .

250.00
333.68

5,298.08

1,473.02
Total ..............................................................................................$157,254.39
17.89 $ 1,455.13

Donations ....................................................................
Loans returned .................................................. ,., ....... ,

40.00
66.25

1,561.38

Total .-......................................:.....•..................... ,.. ;....... ,......... :.:...$ 50,159.22
Deduct:
Distributed for educational purposes............................................

1,015.28

Balance, July 31, 1942:
George P . Allen Scholarship Fund........................$ 2,000.00
George and Laura E. Brigh.a m Scholarship Fund 36,456.97
Students' Loan Fund.......................····;······ ·······~---····· 10,686.97

$ 49,143.94

Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ..............................................$
Securities:
Bonds:
$ 5,000 Illinois Power & Light Co. 5%, 1956.... $ 5,162.50
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co. 3%, 1970...... 5,100.00
10,000 Southern California Gas Co. 3l4%,
1970-71 ...................................................... 10,487.50

5,393.75

Deduct:
Taxes on pruperty.......... ,... ~ ................... ~···············-$
Reconditioning and upkeep of property........... .

326.38
689.18

1,015.56

Balance, July 31, 1942.............,.................................................................. $156,238.83
Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank. ............................. $ 5,024.46
Security First National Bank.::•.........,.................... 3,108.51 $ 8,132.97
Notes receivable (deed of trust) ....................................................... .
Improved real estate (assessed value) .............................................
Securities:
Bonds
$ 2,000 Baxter Creek Irrigation District....................$
130.00
10,000 Cleveland Union Terminal, 1st mtg., 40%,
1977 ·································································· 10,287.50
8,000 Consolidated Federal Farm Loan 40,.1946 8,980.00
2,000 Consolidated Federal Farm Loan 3l4%,
1955 .................................................................. 2,153.96
1,000 Covina, City of, Sewer, 2~%, 1950................
973.44

9,288.82
5,480.00

216

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1,000 Lincoln J ~int Stock Land Bank Farm
Loan 5%, 195L....., .......................~ •...........,..;
3,000 Los Angeles County Drainage 6%, 19447-8 -~···--···········.-························,··················---·-4,000 Los Angeles County Flood Control 5%,
1947-8 ..............................................................
1,000 Los Angeles County Sanitation District
50%, 1943 ..,.................................................
1,000 Los Angeles County Sanitation District
5~o/o, 1950 ....................................................
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Power Plant 4%, 1956
1,000 Los· Angeles, City of, Improvement 6%,
1944 ..................................................................
10,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water Works 40%,
1962 ··································································
10,000 Los Angeles Mountain Park Co. 60%,
1939 (defaulted) ............................................
20,000 Louisville & Nashville Park Co., 1st mtge.,
3~o/o, 2003 ......................................................
1,000 Modesto. Irrigation District 6%, 1950..........
1,000 Pierce Joint Union High School District
4~%. 1946 ······················································
1,000 San Diego County Special District Refunding 2~%, 1946................................................
2,000 Tule Irrigation District....................................
4,000 U. S. A. Savings Defense Bonds, Series G,
20%, 1954 ....................................................
12,500 U. S. A. Treasury Bonds, 3~%, 1956..........
22,500 U. S. A. Treasury Bonds, 4%, 1954..............
Stocks
100 shares Security National Bank of Los Angeles ......................................................................
500 shares Transamerica Corporation .................... )
100 shares Bank of America, N. T. & S. A......... )
20 shares Bancamerica-Blair Corp ......................... )

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

854.58

Less reserve for amortization of
bond premiums ..........................

3,478.00

Profit from sale of securities............

4,629.44

1,214.54 $

217
1,491.72
89.87

1,581.59

Total ..:....,:.............................................,..............................:........$ 79,505.05
Deduct :
Payments on contract··········-······-···························-----------················ 1,000.00

1,091.04
1,145.31
1,093.33

Balance, July 31, 1942............ '..................".:...................:............................$ 78,505.05

1,017.33
Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ........................................, .....$ 5,995.61

12,338.95

Securities (bonds):

1,650.00

$ 5,000 Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District
4~%. 1961 ........................................:.............$ 6,837.75

18,700.00
1,207.50

2,000

Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District
3~%. 1967 ....................................................
2,459.06
20,000 Great Northern Railway Co. General Mortgage 40 %, 1977........................................... . 21,154.40
20,000 Great Northern Railway Co. General Mortgage 4%, 1946................................................ 24,554.80
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Electric Plant 4~%,
1964 .....................................-............................ 1,290.48
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water Works 4~%
1960 .................................................................'.
1,169.18
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water Works 4~%
1?61 .................................................................'. 6,129.38
6,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California 4%, 1963-65-81-83...................... 7,766.21
1,000 Santa Monica School District 5%, 1961..... . 1,362.72
1,000 ·U . S. A. Savings Defense, Series G 20 %
1954 ....................................................'.............'.
1,000.00

1,065.31
1,030.31
130.00
4,000.00
14,156.25
25,164.84

6,000.00
13,000.00

Total ..............................................................$134,277.09
Less reserve for amortization of bond premiums......
912.68
Net book value of securities...............c...... ........................... ....:..

Total ........... :.......................,...................,........::....$ 73,723.98
Less reserve for amortization of bond premiums....
1,214.54
133,364.41

Net book value of securities........................................................

72,509.44

Total assets ............................-.............................~ .....................$156,266.20
Less, due to Masonic Homes General Fund......................................
27.37

Balance, July 31, 1942 (as above) ..........................................................$ 78,505.05

Balance, July 31, 1942.............................:······----····----··········--·······--·····--:...$156,238.8l

Schedule B-6
Summarized Statement of C. N, Flint Annuity "Morgan" )i'und
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942

Schedule B-5
Summarized Statement of C. N. Flint Annuity Fund for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
Balance, August 1, 1941 ........................................................................., ....$ 77,923.46
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments ............................................$ 2,706.26

Balance, August 1, 1941 ............................................................................$ 27,332.60
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments .............................................;..$ 1,692.11
Less reserve for amortization . of
bond premiums ..............................
136.91 $ 1,555.20

218

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Profit from sale of securities ................................

340.13

1,895.33

Total~~'................:.•.•...•.···•···•··········-·······-'··-···:................. :......$ 29,227.93
Deduct payments on -contract.........................·-····•·····'·······················'···
480.00

Less reserve for amortization of bond premiums

219
158.15

Net book value of sec1,1r~ties ...... .'....:................................... .

17,038.29

Balance, July 31, 1942 (as above) ...............•..............•....• :....• ~., ..:._..•.•$ 19,613.36

Balance, July 31, 194.'l.:.....,..................,......... ., ............:.•.... ,..............•........$ 28,747.93
Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ........ - ..•.•. :.........:.......:...........$
Securities (bonds):
$ 3,000 Beverly Hills, City of, Water 4;4%, 1960....$ . 3,689.70
5,000 Glendale Union High School District 5%,
1965-6 ······························································ 6,697.41
2,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water 5%,
1960 ............................ .-.................................... 2,603.31
4,000 U. S. A. Savings Defense, Series G, 2Y,%,
1954 .................................................................. 4,000.00
Stocks:
253 units Security Company............................................ 7,590.00
60 shares Security First National Bank of Los Angeles .......................................................................... 2,850.00

1,454.42

Balance, August 1, 1941........ :.......... :.......... :....:: •......... :...................:.. :.~.,.. $ 27,768.60
Add:
Interest from investments.:...................................... $
Less reserve for amortization of bond premiums

27,293.51

Schedule B-7
Summarized Statement of George and Harriet Wadleigh Annuity
Fund for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
• Balance, August 1, 1941,................................................ :..........................$ 20,713.27
683.24
158.15

525.09

Total. .....:......................................................................................... $ 21,238.36
Deduct payments on contract ................................................................
1,625.00
Balance, July 31, 1942 ............................~ ................. ~ ...............~ ........... :.....$ 19,613.36
Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) .•... .-.......•.............. ,...........,.....$ 2,575.07
Sec ~rities (bonds)
$ 6,000 East Bay Municipal Utility District 5%,
1974-6 .... L ................. :......•........... :...... :....... :... $ 8,984.19
5,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water
4Y,%, 1973 ................................................. :..
1,384.18
1,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water
4%%, 1970 ·····························-···-····---···-··---·· 6,828.07
Total ............ .,. ...·......,...:..._., .....,,. ............ ~ ................. $ 17,196.44

616.21

Balance, July 31, 1942..:........................................ :....................................$ 26,884.81

Balan~e, July 31, 1942 (as above) ................ ,'......................................... $ 28;747.93

Add:
Interest from investments ........................................$ .
Less reserve for amortization of bond premiums

787.11
170.90

Total c••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• , •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••,.., ••••••••••••••••$ 28,384.81
Deduct payments on contract...•................................•........ ;....................
1,500.00

Total .... '.;.. ...•..... :..c.........................'••••••••• c••••••••••• : •••$ 27,430.42
Less reserve for amortization of bond premiums....
136.91
Net book value of securities .......................... c............·•••••••••••••••••

Schedule B-8
Summarized Statement of Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity
Fund for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942

Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank) ..................,..,. .....1...., .., •••••• , ...:$
Securities (bonds):
$ 1,000 Compton Union High School District 5%,
1957 ;-'···-···'···"·'·····················'··'······:•...•....•...:$ 1,301.46
1,000 Compton City School District 5%, 1962....
l,~67.95 .
2,000 East Bay Municipal Utility District 5%,
1971 ................................................................. . 2,902.85
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Electric Plant 4l-i%,
1967 ........ :.........................................................
1,328.10
1,000 Los Angeles, Harbor Improvements 4%%,
1965 ........................,........................................ .
1,401.83
1,000 Los Angeles, Park Construction 4%, 1967
1,275.86
1,363.03
1,000 Los Angeles, Water Works 4Y,%, 1966... .
2,000 Los Angeles, Water Works 5%, 1966-74... . 2,967.38
1,000 Los Angeles, Water Works 4%%, 1967..... .
1,328.82
10,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California 3%, 1971.................................... .. 10,945.40

873.03

Total ...........•.....•...... ,.......... ,............................ ,..... ,$ 26,182.68
Less reserve for amortization of bond premiums
170.90
Net book value of securities ................................................

26,011.78

Balance, July 31, 1942 (as above) ................................... :.................... $ 26,884.81
Schedule B-9
Summarized Statement of Charles L. Patton Reserve Fund for
the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
Balance, August 1, 1941......................................................... :..................$ 40,186.72
Add:
Interest from investments ................ $ 1,293.88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

220

Less reserve for amortization of
bond premiums ....•...........................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Deduct amount transferred to Entertainment J:<'und..................

192.71 $ 1,101.17

Additional cash received from the estate of
Charles L. Patton.............................:..................

4,305.71

5,406.88

Total ······························-'·····.·······•····h·····························-----········-$ 45,593.60
Deduct:
Final payment on "seeing-eye" dog for Ben
250.00
Helwig ················-···················································-$
Two months upkeep of dog....................................
12.00
262.00
Balance, July 31, 1942~...........:..............................._.:......•.........:................$ 45,331.60
Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank......................................$
840.60
Bank of America................................................................ 5,142.99
The San Francisco Bank.................................................. 8,566.13

14,549.72

Securities (bonds):

2,000
3,000
2,000
8,000
2,000

Balance, July 31, 1942 (due from Homes General Fund) .............:$ 2,350.58
Gloria Benjamin Trust Fund:
Balance, August 1, 1941....................................................................$ 1,077.79
Add interest received.•......•............................. ,...................................
21.65
Balance, July 31, 1942 (The San Francisco Bank) ............................$ 1,099.44
Residents Deposits :
Cash on deposit by residents at Decoto:
In Homes General Fund..........................................$ 1,855.25
Central Bank, Niles....,...............................................
904.20
Farmers and Merchants Bank, Oakland..............
1,848.60

Exhibit C
Statement of Revenue and Expense for the Fiscal Year
Ended July 31, 1942
Revenue1941 Annual Returns:
Maintenance special levy..................$ 48,743.60
Constitutional requirement .............. 60,929.50
$25.00 Homes contributions ............ 96,875.00
Prior years $25.00 Homes contributions ..............................................
120.00 $206,668.10

4%, 1961 ............;...........................................$· 5,142.31
Los Angeles, City of, Water Works 4Y,%,
1967 .................................................................. 4,083.53
Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California 3Y, %, 1980.................,................ 2,409.69
Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California 4%, 1982..............,......................... 3,961.45
New York, City of, Water Supply 4~%,
1972 ················-··········-----------·---------·-··············-- 2,545.00
New York, City of, Dock Improvements
4~%, 1972 ---------------------------------··················· 10,180.00
San Francisco, City and County of, Hetch
Hetchy 4Y, %, 1973........................................ 2,652.61

Total ................ :..........................,....:............•........$ 30,974.59
192.71
Less reserve for amortization of bond premiums
Net book value of securities................................................

4,233.29

Total ···-·················-,,•Y...··················································-·············$ 4,608.05

$ 5,000 . California Water Service Co. First Mtg.
3,000

221'

30,781.88

Balance, July 31, 1942 (as above) ...........................•..............................$ 45,331.60
0

Schedule B-10
Summarized Statement of Sundry Funds Held for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
Special Entertainment Fund for Decoto Residents:
Balance, August 1, 1941.........,.....:....................................................$ 4,553.11
Add from deceased residents' deposits during the year............
2,030.76
Total ...............:.,...............................................................,............$ 6,583.87

Endowment Fund Income:
Regular fund .~...................................$ 37,448.69
Luckenbach Fund .............................. 2,363.75

39,812.44

General maintenance (income from, and
proceeds from sales of, securities,
real estate, insurance policies, etc.,
less expenses of $1,780.38) ................

23,322.13

Contributions Paid Through Lodges:
For Decoto .....................................•....$ 5,729.75
For Covina .......................................... 6,743.67

12,473.42

State aid for Covina.........................................................
Care of employees' children..........................................
Funeral expense refunds received in excess of current expenses ......................_. ...................................
Interest .....,.......:...............................................................

7,132.39
331.00
931.65
134.54

Total revenue ........,...,...........,......................,...............................$290,808.67
ExpenseOperation of Homes:
Decoto (Exhibit D) ............................$127,823.05
Covina (Exhibit E) ............................ 93,088.04

220,911.09

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

222

Outside Relief and Care:
Outside relief
t 14,583.00
Outside care of children.................... 3,249.60

(c) Plus non-cash item: farm produce consumed....................

Exhibit E
Statement of Direct Operating Expense (Covina) Less Sundry Direct
Revenue Received for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942

Taxes ..:....-·-···-···-············-~·-·············-$ 3,598.78
Insurance ............................................ 2,261 .64

Operating expense:
Main.te.nanc~ (care of children) ........................:.....$ 85,189.18
Admm1strahon expense ............................................ 9,874.98
Farm expense ·............................................................ 2,989.08

2,288.54
2,797.60
1,800.00
800.57
550.00
250.00
321.11
245.70
50.98

Total (refer to Schedule E-1 for details) ............................$ 98,053.24
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
825.27
Farm produce consumed.....................- .......~.............$
3,636.89
Farm produce sold outside......................................
Discount on purchases.................:.~ ..........................
101.21
Miscellaneous revenue ..............................................
401.83

14,964.92

Total expense ..........................................................................

253,708.61

Excess of revenue over expens~---····~·············································:·······$ 37,100.06
Exhibit D
Statement of Direct Operating Expense (Decoto) Less Sundry Direct
Revenue Received for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
•Operating expense :
Maintenance ~ .........,.........'......,,.......::...............:..........$ 68,217.73
Hospital .....................................................•.................. 14,536.79·
Farm .............................................................................. 6,639.06
Laundry ........................................................................ 4,019.65
General and administrative:
Salaries and wages......................$ 19,587.95
Expense ........................................ · 19,021.31

3,083.69

Total, as above ...................- ....:..........:..........................:.........:..........$132;022.49

17,832.60

Administrative and General Expense:

Field investigation expense:
Northern' district ............................
Southern district ............................
Secretary's and assistant secretary's salaries .............:................
Trustees' expense ..............................
Auditing ................................................
Safekeeping of securities....................
Office supplies and printing ............
Replacing northern field worker's
office furniture ............................
Miscellaneous ..... ,................................

223

Total (refer to Schedule D-1 for details) ............................$132,022.49
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm produce consumed..........................................$ 3,083.69
Farm produce sold outside............................,.........
116.00
Farm rent ....................•....................•...........................
609.87
Salvage sales ....................•.........................................
389.88

Net operating expense................................................·...... :.......................$ 93,088.04
*Note: Total operating expense includes(a) Cash expenditures, per Exhibit A ................$ 97,752.60
(b) Less expenditures for increase in inventory
of stores ..•.....,..··:····:··c···.-···.--··············.-···:·'.-.-.-·.-·
625.84
Net cash for expenses..................................$ 97,126.76
(c) Plus. non-cash items:
825.27
Farm produce consumed ............................
Discount on purchases................................
101.21
Total, as above .........;..........................................$ 98,053.24

38,609.26

4,199.44

Net operating expense...............................................................................$127,823.05
•Note: Total operating expense includes(a) Cash expenditures, per Exhibit A..........................................$132,227.09
(b) Less expenditures for increase in inventory of stores.... 3,288.29
Net cash for expenses..........................................................$128,938.80

4,965.20

Schedule D-1
Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail at Decoto
for the Fiscal Year En~d July 31, 1942
Maintenance ExpenseFood:
Groceries .....-.........................................$ 6,170.68
Meat ...................................................... 8,803.55
Fish ........................................................
411.55
Provisions, including cured meats .. 3,087.06
Fruit and vegetables.......................... 6,493.99
Butter, milk and eggs........................ 16,820.46
Bakers' supplies .................................. 1,9.70.53 $ 43,757.82
Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries and wages...............................$ 14,380.36
Repairs and maintenance.................. 2,341.54
Operating expense ............................ 2,359.18

19,081.08

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

224

Clothing and sundry:
Medical supplies --··:·······················$ 3,270.66
617.38
Dental ....................................................
103.46
Eye specialist ......................................_
482.65
Clothing ................................................
269.12
Shoes ....................................................
Bedding ................................................
635.56

GRAND L OD GE OF CALIFORNIA ·

Canned goods ......................................
Butter, milk and eggs:...................., ..
Bakery supplies ..................................
Cereals ·····································-···········
Other groceries ..................................
Outside meals ...-...................................
5,378.83

Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries and wages ..............................$ 5,604.69
Supplies ................................................
624.99
Repairs and replacements................
851.25

7,080.93

Clothing:
Ready to wear......................................$ 2,092.09
Cleaning and repairs..........................
964.59
Dry goods and notions ...............:......
123.89

3,180.57

6,639.06

Laundi-y:
Salaries and wages ..............................$ 1,664.12
Supplies ........................,.....................•.
959.82
Repairs and replacements ..................
111.52

2,735.46

4,019.65

Dormitories:
Salaries and wages..............................$ 11,999.33
Supplies ...............:................................
J,511.26
Rep.a irs and replacements................
669.94

14,180.53

Hospitals :
Doctors' and dentists' fees.........:......$
Salaries and wages..............................
M edical supplies and drugs ..........:...
Other supplies and expense ..............
Outside hospital, x-rays, glasses, etc.

2,087.05
2,383.58
1,286.18
438.24
1,026.34

7,221.39

General expense:
School supplies ..................................$
Tonsorial service ................................
Miscellaneous ......................................
Domestic science cottage..................'
Automobile expense ..........................

47.45
172.23
894.77
414.02
323.43

1,851.90

Power house:
Salaries and wages ..........................$ 2,736.46
Fuel oil, waste and lubrications .. 1,461.82
Supplies ............................................ 2,221.22

6,419.50

Repairs to buildings :
Salaries and wages..........................$ 1,581.19
Plumbing repairs .......:....................
1,033.50
Supplies ............................................ 3,482.79

6,097.48

Total maintenance expense.......................:..............................$ 68,217.73
Hospital expense:
Salaries and wages......................................................$ 14,376.93
159.86
Miscellaneous expense ..............................................

14,536.79

Farm expense :
Salaries and wages ......................................................$ 2,427.31
3.12
Tools and equipment..................................................
123.75
Seeds ........................•..........:..........................................
Feed .............................................................................. 2,623.57
Miscellaneous expense .............................................. 1,461.31
Total ......................,..........................................: ........................
Latindry expense:
Salaries and wages ...................................._..................$ 2,954.89
Miscellaneous expense .............................................. 1,064.76
Total .................:.....................................................•...:............
General expenseSalaries and wages ..............................................................$ 19,587.95
Other expense :
Light, hi::at, power and water..........$ 9,231.19
Plant repairs and maintenance........ 4,201.30
314.54
Freight and express............................
367.36
Traveling expense ..............................
327.08
·office supplies and printing............
Furniture and equipment replace1,501.94
ments ............................................
580.46
Telephone and telegraph ..................
Miscellaneous expense ...................... 2,497.44

19,021.31

Total general expense............................................................

38,609.26

Total. operating expenses (Decoto) ........- ...............:............................$132,022.49
Schedule E-1
Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail at Covina for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
Care of childrenF ood:
Meats ·······················-··'···'·····--··:······'····$ 6,044.27
Fresh fruits and vegetab'le-s..... :........ 2,941.59

2,723.18
5,911.38
1,358.08
331.21
2,953.37
4,049.28 $ 26,312.36

General house and property expense:

225

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

226

Care of grounds:
Salaries and wages..........................$ 1,570.19
401.35
Supplies and expense.............·.........

1,971.54

-----

General expense:
Gas, water and light......................$ 5,507.40
165.03
Automobile expense ......................
2,465.09
Miscellaneous expense ..................

8,137.52

-----

Total care of children.......- .......................................................$ 8 5,l89 · 18
Administrative expense·
Salaries-Superintendent and office.......................:........$ 7,~~:~~
Stationery and printing....·············:····································
250.47
Postage ················································································
· 586.65
Telephone and telegraph··················································
70.25
Traveling expense ······························································
260.56
Automobile expense ··························································
335.01
Misce11aneous expense ······················································
113.32
Freight and express............................................................
99.98
Office equipment······················-····································:··· · - - - - Total administrative expense....................................................$ 9,874.98
Farm expenseOrchard :
Salaries and wages ............. ~---··········$
Supplies and expense ........................
Tractor fuel ........................................

530.09
270.42
228.09

1,028.60

Poultry·:
Salaries and wages........···········:··········$
Feed ......................................................
Supplies and expense ........................

25.46
1,110.47
10.25

1,146.18

Pigs:
.
Feed ··-·················································-$
Supplies and expense..........................

55.74
128.96

184.70"

General far·m expense:
Miscellaneous expense ..........................................

629.60

-----

-----

Every effort is being made by me and our Matron, Mr s. Virginia Loni,
to promote harmony and contentment among our members, and to develop
a home-like atmosphere in the Home, and in a large measure we feel 01.1r
efforts are not entirely in vain.
It shall always be our aim to operate the Home as economically and
efficiently as possible, remembering that economy should never be effected
at th e expense of our residents. To have the buildings and grounds present
a neat and attractive appearance; and to provide every comfort possible for
the residents of the Home.
At the beginning of the year, there were 305 residents; 46 were
admitted during the year, at an average age of 73.90; 37 passed away, the
average age being 80.62 ; there were 3 departures. O f the 305 in the Home,
150 are women and 155 are men, including 19 married couples. There are:
2 residents between the ages of 50 to 60.
30 residents between the ages of 60 to 70.
49 residents between the ages of 70 to 80.
3 residents between the ages of 90 to 100.
The average age at this time is 76.00 years for men and 74.70 for women.
The health condition has been excellent, with the exception of those who
are infirm and feeble o"."ing to advancing years.
There are 49 of our members being cared for in our hospital at the
present time. T his department is equipped with sanitary and electrical
devices, which enable us to give to those who are ill, every care and attention for their comfort and .well-being.
Miss Esther G. Payne, who has served the hospital department faith,
fully and well for the past twenty years, and who is well and favorab ly
known by the members of the Fraternity for her kind and sincere efforts
in behalf of our members who find it ·necessary to be hospitalized, is in
charge of the hospital. Dr. W. L . McWhirter; who is the medical director.,
is also our X-Ray technician and is rendering a very valuable service in
both departments.
The members are encouraged to inter est themselves in the daily
routine work; and a large number of residents have contributed t o the
welfare of the ·Home, by their services.
Following are few of the departments where you will fi nd some of
our guests going about their duties with a smile on their faces and song
in their hearts: Engine room, laundry, carpenter, paint, and barber shops,
garage, mail, passenger, freight and express automobile service, kitchen,
pantry, dining room, vegetable and store rooms, office work, library, telephone, information desk, flower gardens, vegetable gar den, poultry yards,
and many other light duties. The assistance by our members in these various departments is more necessary now than ever before, due to the
shortage of help, and greatly assists in maintaining the high standard
which has always been maintained in the Home. Mrs. Lord and I wartt
to assure our members that we fu lly appreciate their f:OOperation and
assistance.
During the year, we have continued our paint campaign. Since our last
report, we have painted the kitchen, dining room, and all the halls, club
rooms, card room, and member s' room on the first floor North and East.
A new fr eight elevator has been installed to lift articles from the
commissary department to the kitchen. All the main departments: Kitchen,
dining room, laundry and heating plant have been operating during· t he
year economically and efficiently.

a

-----

Total farm expense..........,.....................................................

2,989.08

. Total operating expenses (Covina) ...............:..:........."..................~ ....... :.$ 98,053.24
Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home
To the Board of Trustees,
Masonic Homes of California:
.
.
It is my p~ivilege and pleasure, as well as my dut:l'.', to submit this m_y
second annual report of the management an_d operation of the Masonic
Home at Decoto California, for the year ending August 31, 1942.
During the ;ear there have been a few changes go~erning the policies
of the Home, which we hope will be helpful and beneficial to all concerned.

227

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Most of the farm land is leased; the portion we have retained has
furnished an abundance of fruit, berries, eggs and vegetables.
In another part of the report, you will find listed the entertainments
which have been provided by various Lodges, Eastern Star Chapters, and
friends for the entertainment of the Home folk. The East Bay Past
Matrons' Association, I believe, is entitled to special mention. Their program was excellent, and enjoyed immensely by our guests. We also had
an opportunity of meeting the Grand Officers of the 0. E. S., and in their
usual graceful way presented the Horne with quilts, table-covers, pajamas,
and an abundance of jams, jellies and preserves for which we want to
extend to these good ladies our grateful thanks and appreciation. I also
feel that special mention should be made of the ' Masters and Wardens
program, which was excellent and enjoyed very much by the Home family.
Many magazines, books, periodicals and papers have been presented to
the Home during the year, by friends and members of the Fraternity.
These contributions are very much appreciated by the family.
.\ Ve are unable to express adequately our deep appreciation to the San
Francisco Film Distributing Company for their splendid contribution of
fine movie films; however, we want to assure this fine organization that
their generosity in providing the films is fully appreciated and we want
to extend to them our grateful thanks.
·
Dr. W. A. Pankey, who for many years arranged the devotional services for the Horne was called into the United States Service. Since his
departure, Dr. Winkley -of Hayward, has taken charge, and through his
efforts a minister is assigned and services are held in the Auditorium every
Sunday. We want to assure Dr. Winkley, and the kind gentlemen who
assist him, that their efforts are very much appreciated by the residents of
the Home.
Due to the "present labor shortage, we are having some difficulty in
keeping a full staff, which necessarily means that we must curtail our
service in many respects; however, we are hopeful that no one will suffer
as a result.
In conclusion, Mrs. Lord and I wish to extend our appreciation of the
service rendered by our employes throughout the year, in their respective
departments, and to express to the members of the Board of Truste.e s our
sincere gratitude for the counsel and advice given when meeting problems
in connection with the management of the Home.
J. R. EUBANKS, Superintendent.
Names of Residents-Decoto ·Home
Following is a complete list of residents of the Decoto Home, the date
of their admission, their respective ages, the name and number of the
Lodges, nominating them and the location of such Lodges, complete to
August 31, 1942.
Men 155-Average Age, 76.00

Name
Admitted
Adkins, Jason A ...........July 13, '40
Allan, James G ............. Apr. 1, '39
Alseth, Lars.................. Mar. 7, '34
Anderson, Charles A ... Nov. 19, '36
Anderson, Peter C..... ,.July 27, '41
Anderson, William A ...June 22, '42

Lodge
No.
San Simeon ...... 196
Crocker ..............454
Moneta ..............405
Tehachapi ..........313
Doric ..................216
Chowchilla ........485

Town
Age
Cambria ........62
Daly City........68
Los Angeles..68
Tehachapi ......79
San Francisco 81
Chowchilla ....58

229

Name
Admitted
Andrews, Frank H ..... April 25, '42
Anthony, Thomas M ...July 17, '39
Archer, Ernest E ...........J an. 30 '36
A twood, Ira A. ............. Sept. 7,' '31

Lodge
No.
Durant ................268
Sequoia ..............349
Palos Verdes......389
El Cajon Valley..576

Town
Age
Berkeley ........ 72
Oakland ..........78
Long Beach .... 75
El Cajon ..........80

Bader, Henry .............. Nov. 28 '28
'42
Baer, Reubin E ...........June
Barnes, Elmer W .........J uly 7, '34
Battle, Jos,eph D ........... Dec. 9, '30
Beall, Alexander D ..... Mar. 29, '36
Beal, Charles L. ............ Feb. 15, '34
Bennett, Frederick C... Dec. 4, '41
Benninger, Wm. G..... Mar. 27, '34
Bentley, Isam H ...........Jan. 31, '31
Bewley, John C. .......... Aug. 11, '40
Bird, Robert B ............. Dec. 6 '36
'34
Bly, Carl D .....................July
Boehm, Hiram J ...........July 19, '31
Bonde, Hans P .............July 6 '32
Bonfigli, Emilio.......... Sept. 11; '41
Bordeaux, William O ... Dec. 7, '41
Brittain, \Villiam H .....J une 14, '40

King Solomon's..260
Sotoyome ..........123
Liberty ..............299
Stanislaus .... :.....206
Mount Moriah.. 44
Hawaiian ............ 21
Charter Rock ... .410
Hanford ..............279
Oakdale .............275
Lodi ....................256
Mission .............. 169
Hollenbeck ........ 319
Big Bear..............617
Alisa! ............-.....321
Speran. Italiana 219
Torrance ............447
Coronado ..........441

San Francisco 78
Healdsburg ....75
Santa Clara.... 73
Modesto ........ 82
San Francisco 78
Honolulu ........ 76
Berkeley ........76
Hanford .......... 76
Oakdale ..........82
Lodi ................75
San Francisco 79
Los Angeles.... 82
BigBearLake 79
Pleasanton .... 79
San Francisco 71
Torrance ........83
Coronado ......83

Car, Mell A ...............~.Aug. 4, '36
Carfagni, Peter.............. Oct. 31, '36
Carpenter, John J ......... May 2 '37
Cassady, Earl J ........:.... Feb.
'36
Casterline, Myron N ... Nov. 16, '32
Childs, Clarence E ....... Oct. 8, '41
Closson, Harry ]. ........ May 4, '31
Collins, Nelson W ....... Sept. 12, '19
Condon, Wilbert S.......Jan. 11,"42
Corson, Joseph M ....... Dec. 30, '33
Cullen, Alexander........ Feb. 4, '36

Ione .................... 80
Speran. Italiana 219
Mendocino ........ 179
Geo. Wash'ton 525
Oceanside ..........381
Palo Alto ..........346
Tuolumne .......... !S
Calistoga ............233
Apollo ................396
Valley .~................ 135
Hollywood ........355

Camptonville..75
San Francisco 81
Mendocino ....83
San Francisco 71
Oceanside ......77
Palo Alto........82
Sonora ............ 73
Calistoga ........80
Alameda ........66
Linden ............66
Hollywood ....80

Dmesen, Jacob N ......... Nov. 1 '32
Dolan, John .C. ............ Aug. 4: '31

Torrance ............ 447
Norwalk ............ 315
Live Oak ............ 61
Redlands ............300

Torrance ........62
Norwalk ........93
Oakland ..........8(}
Redlands ........77

Engle, Wm. H ............... Dec. 12, '31
Ernst, Cuno A........:....Aug-. 26 '32
E rwin, Lewis, Jr., ........... July 28'. '41

Pentalpha ..........202
Tehama .............. 3
Olivet ................205

Los Angeles.. 72
Sacramento ..79
Corning ..........86

Fender, Andrew J ....... Dec. 5, '30
Ford, William ]. .......... Sept. 4, '37
Fox, James.................... Apr. 26, '38
Franck, Isadore ............Jan. 10, '16
Furlong, Barre A ....... Mar. 4, '39

Northern Light..190
McKinley ..........347
Forbestown ...... SO
La Parfaite Un ... 17
Pomona ..............246

Millville .......... 79
Richmond ......73
Forbestown ..92
San Francisco 94
Pomona .......... 78

Garnie, Fred H ........... Nov. 7 '40
Geibel, George F ......... May 12' '39
Gilbert, Thomas .......... May 20' '36
Goodrich, Edward ...... Aug. 8: '31
Gray, William D ......... May 9, '42
Greaves, Walter............ Oct. 18, '32

King Solomon's 260
Fairmount ..........435
Sequoia ..............349
~r~sn~ ......,..........247
e River ............ 147
Apollo .....:........ :.396

San Francisco 70
San Francisco 68
Oakland .......... 83
Fresno ............87
Fortuna ..........66
Alameda ........ 73

2s:

7:

3:

D~Witt, Frank W .......June 30, '42
D~llman, Thomas 1\1... May 16. '37

230

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Admitted
· Name
Greene, Lawrence L.._J une 9, '42
Gregory, George W ... April 25, '36

Lodge
No.
Town
Age
San Miguel ........285 San MigueL.63
Sunset ·-'-------····--352 · Los Angeles ..76

Admitted
Name
Pouyet, Eugene............ Oct. 26, '37
Preslar, Henry A. ........ Dec. 10, '39

Halpin, Robert L, ________ Oct. 23, '33
Hamblin, Abraham L. ..Jan. 8, '34
Hamilton, Robert M... Apr. 25, '36
Hamilton, William T ... Sept. 13 '41.
Harris, Elijah ________________ July 6, '35
Harris, Louis-----------·------J an. 13, '23
Harth, Arthur P ......... Sept. 4, '40
Hartin, Robert______________Jan. 8, '37
Haupt, Oscar................June 28, '30
Hayes, Corwin ]...,.....Mar. 5, '36
Heath, James H, __________ Feb. 8, '35
Heidt, Wesley.............. Aug. 5, '39
Henry, Wm. P. -----·--·---July 10, '37
Hiltner, Harry B......... Aug. 17, '40
Horn, AdelberL.........July 9. '41
Hughes, Eugene F .......Mar. 11, '33
Hughes, Henry J ......... Dec. 26, '35
Hullinger, Frank.......... Aug. 26, '40
Hyde, George................ Dec. 22, '30

Silver Trowel ....415
South W esL.....283
Temblor ............477
Tujunga ____________592
Pasadena -------··--.272
Los Angeles -----· 42
Lindsay ..............416
Arcata ··----·-----·---106
Naval ------------------ 87
Covina ................334
Santa Maria........ 580
Occidental ---------· 22
Yount -----------·-·---- 12
Fairmount ..........435
West Lake..........392
Phoenix .............. 178
Fairmount ..........435
Sequoia -----·--·-·-··349
Mill Valley..........356

Los Angeles ..69
National City.. 76
Fellow~ ..........76
Tujunga ........7S
Pasadena ________ 77
Los Angeles..66
Lindsay ..........69
Arcata ............64
Vallejo ............79
Covina ·-----'-----71
Ramona .......... 79
San Francisco 77
Napa ..............SS
San Francisco 75
Los Angeles..75
San Bern'r'do 89
San Francisco 72
Oakland .....:....65
Mill Valley......83

Isaac, Adolph ................Jan. 31, '37

Dork ..................216

San Francisco 81

Jack, Charles P ............ _Jan. 9, '38
Jensen, James L ........... Mar. 2, '33
Jewell, Frank H ......... Aug. 7, '42
Johanson, Charles A ...Jan. 29, '39
Jones, George Wm ..... Sept. 8, '38

Presidio __ ,...........354
Texas .................. 46
Bay View ..........401
Balder ·----·--------··393
Delano ................309

San Francisco 63
SanJuanBaut. 80
Oakland __________73
San Francisco 82
Delano ............66

Kemp, Edward H ....... Nov. 24, '37
Kimball; John C, __________ Mar. 27, '33
Kinchin, Peter...:.......... Nov. 4, '35

Oak Grove ........215
Mount Moriah .. 44
Mariposa ------------ 24

Alameda ........74
San Francisco 85
Mariposa ........81

La Barre, Wm. H ....... Dec. 17, '40 Berkeley ............363
Lacy, Hervey R. ..........Aug. 16, '34 Solano ................229
Laton, Edward L ......... Apr. 23, '32 La Fayette.......... 126
Lehman, August H ..... Dec. 14, '28 Santa Monica ....307
Lenox, Andrew ]. ........June 16, '39 South Gate..........320
Loher, George T ...........July 1, '39. Live Oak. ___________ 61
Lynch, Walter C.........Feb. 8, '36 Pasadena ............272

Berkeley ........78
Vallejo ............65
Sebastopol ...:77
Santa Monica ..83
Los Angeles..74
Oakland __________ 75
Pasadena _____ ...67

Matthews, Elbert C.... _July 10, '35 La Mesa........ .,....407
Maynes, William A ... Mar. 25, '42 · Escalon .............. 591
McClain, Charles A .....Jan. 26, '33 Mosaic _______________.218
Meyers, Ernest C. ...... Feb. 24, '42 Stockton ............498
Milisich, Chris............... Oct. 5, '31 Speran. Italiana 219
Morris, Harry B......... Nov. 28, '30 La Fayette ..........126
Morrison, Wm. F. ~ .....June 27, '32 Solano ................229
Murden, Robert ]. ........ Mar. 26, '28 Alcatraz --------···---244
Myers, Wm. P ............. Feb. 1, '32 Las Palmas ........366

La Mesa ________74
Escalon ..........70
Livermore ......88
Stockton _______ .81
San Francisco 78
Sebastopol .... 78
Vallejo ............80
Berkeley ........ 76
Fresno ............73

Nevitt, Charles E ......... Oct. 31, '36
Nielsen, Ingvel O ....... Oct. 3, '40
Northern, Pleasant M... Nov. '8, '37

Hollywood ----··--355
Fruitvale ............336
Lindsay ..............416

Hollywood ....81
Oakland ..........69
Lindsay ..........70

Owen, Wm. L. ____________ Aug. 12, '22

Mission -----·-·······169

San Francisco 83

231

Lodge
No.
Catalina Island.. 524
Alcatraz ______________ 244

Town
Age
Avalon __________ 59
Oakland ..........81

Quilty, Frank E. .......... Feb. 1, '33

Friendship _________ .210

San J ose..........89

Reaper, Robert W ....... May 14, '39
Reinhold, Peter W ......_July 16, '37
Reissberg, Jacob .......... Aug. 1, '42
Richardson, J. D ......... Nov. 14, '40
Riley, Perry M.............Feb. 22, '37
Roach, Francis T ....... Sept. 18, '40
Robie, Ira A. ................Apr. 1, '42
Russell, George McC. .. Feb. 2, '34
Ryan, Charles A. ..........Aug. 28, '40

Starr King__________ 344
Marin .................. 191
Doric --------·------···216
King Solomon's 260
Lakeshore __________ 551
Antioch ..............175
Clay ................ :... 101
Beverly Hills...... 528
Baldwin Park....660

San Francisco 64
San RafaeL ...83
San Francisco 67
San Francisco 66
Oakland ..........71
Antioch ..........77
Dutch Flat.:....80
Beverly Hills..79
Baldwin Park..65

Sangster, Donald.......... Oct. 4, '32
Sarwine, Christian H ...J une 10, '36
Schandell. Mathais \.. ..Jan. 15, '38
Schlichting, Martin...... May 16, '35
Scott, Walter L ............. Apr. 1, '34
Sebree, Charles H ....... Mar. 21, '36
Shuttleworth, Fred'k....July 17, '39
Slagel, Rober-t B........... Oct. 28, '38
Smith, John S............... Feb. 5, '39
Smith, Roland A ...........Jan. 29, '27
Sniffen, Samuel T ........_Jan. 31, '33
Spaulding, Horace R. .. Nov. 17, '41
Standeford, Wm. B ..... Nov. 12, '29
Stolz, Leon E ............... May 21, '41

Mendocino ........ 179 Mendocino ,...86
Monrovia ..........308 Monrovia ........82
Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ......78
Seaport ..............550 San Francisco 69
Burlingame ______ ..400 Burlingame ....69
Pacific Grove..81
Pacific Grove......331
So. Pasadena......367 So. Pasadena..74
Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco 65
Paul Revere ........462 San Francisco 73
Callayomi .......... 282 Middletown ..82
West Lake ..........392 · Los Angeles ..87
Parnassus ............388 San Francisco 77
Live Oak............ 61 Oakland __________75·
Paul Revere ........462 San Francisco 69

Templeman, Henry...... Dec. 29, '38
Thaxter, Frank W ..... Aug. 17, '42
Thompson, Geo. S .......Aug. 11, '39
Thompson, Loretto P .....Dec. 10, '39
Todd, Albert E. W ..... Dec. 19, '38
Todhunter,CharlesD ... Feb. 12, '42
Tosy, Antonio.............. Sept. 23, '37
Travelli, Joseph .......... Sept. 24, '32
Travers, John ................ May 7, '36
Trost, John H ............... Mar. 15, '32
Tucker, Ira W ............. May 12, '33

Oriental _____________J 44
Charter Rock. .. .410
Oak Grove .. _______ .215
Excelsior ............ 166
Honolulu ............409
Abell .................. 146
Speran. Italiana 219
Oakdale ..............275
Evening Star......186
Ferndale ............ 193
San Jose .............. 10

San Francisco 82
Berkeley ________79
Alameda ______ ..71
San Francisco 62
Honolulu ........72
Ukiah .............. 77
San Francisco 7 5
Oakdale ..........80
Etna Mills ....78
Ferndale ........88
San J ose..........88

Viles, Charleton H .......Oct. 24, '29
Vorsanger, Edw. -i\..:..June 10, '37

Abell ..................146
Martinez ·-··-------- 41

Ukiah ..............85
Martinez ........74

Waite, Fred....................July 16, '35
Warr en, William ..........Aug. 4, '39
Watkins, David K ....... Nov. 29, '31
Wigginton, James W .._July 15, '29
Wilder, James C. ........Aug. 18, '42
Wilson, George............ Mar. 31, '36
Witcosky, John A ....... Sept. 16, '30
Woodworth;JamesL... Aug. 12, '42
Wright, Ralph ................Jan. 26, '39
Yarrington, James T ... Feb. 26, '29

Delano ...............:309
Point Firmin...... 558
Paul Revere ....... .462
S. W. Hackett....574
Lincoln ............ ..470
Fraternity :......... 399
Amity ........:.........370
Brooklyn __________ 225
Seaside ................ 504
_University ......,...394

Delano ............7-0
San Pedro........60
San Francisco 70
San Diego......85
San Francisco 85
San J ose..........77
San Francisco 63
Oakland ..........83
Long Beach .... 60
Los Angeles..80

232

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Departures during the year-3

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Cavender, Mary 0............... Mar. 18, '37 Coalinga ............ 387
Grant, Lincoln U ................. Sept. 18, '40 Table Mountain 124
Ward, Kenneth L, ...........:.. Nov. 16, '35 Howard .............. 37

Date
Feb. 21, '41
Nov. 10, '40
Aug. 24,'37

Women 150--Average age, 74.70

Name
Admiited
Allen, Ida.................'. .... Feb. 17, '40
Am'es Clementina H ...Mar. 8, '41
A~de;son Hilda C....... Oct. 28, '34
Appleton,' Minnie P ..... Aug. 1, '36
Atwood, Ida I............. Sept: 7, '31

Lodge
No.
Balder ................ 393
Mission ..............169
Crockett .............. 139
Live Oak. ........... 61
El Cajon Valley.. 576

Town
Age
San Francisco 74
San Francisco 80
San Francisco 64
Oakland ..........65
El Cajon ........ 77

Baker A~nie J . ............ May 19, '39
Bane 'Annabell E. ........ July 20, '32
Bane' Florence A. ..·...... Nov. 13, '29
Barn~s Elaine G ...........July 7, '34
Bartlett Helen E ......... Jan. 26, '38
. N . ........ A ug. 27 , '33
Barton, 'A nme
Bausch, Ella A ............. Oct. 2, '41.
Berge, Lilly B: ............ Sept. 30, '26
Bern.stein, Cornelia...... June 26, '24
Bolting, Isadore L. .... Dec. 29, '33
Brink Ollie .................... June 25, '38
Brou~hton, Anne E. .. Sept. 6, '34
Brown Lima C............. May 25, '34
Burnett, Ethlan R ....... Feb. 9, '36
· Bush, Lotta A. ............ Aug. 28, '37

Sequoia .............. 349
Orland ............... .265
Rockridge ..........468
Liberty ............. .299
Doric .................. 216
Truckee ..............200
Sequoia ..............349
West Gate .......... 335
Berkeley ............ 363
Silver Gate ........296
Pacific Grove ....331
Magnolia ....... :....242
Bethlehem ....... .453
Las Palmas ........ 366
King Solomon's ..260

Oakland ..........66
Orland ............15
Oakland ......... ,77
Santa <;:lara .... 72
San Francisco 71
Truckee ·..........90
Oakland ..........79
Los Angeles .. 88
Berkeley ........83
San D iego ......8'3
Pacific Grove .. 73
Santa Barbara 86
San Francisco 86
Fresno ............({!
San Francisco 69

Cass, Mary E .................July 7, '28
Cassidy, Lottie .............. May 30, '33
Casterline, Mary A ..... Apr. 10, '34
Chapman, Magnolia W. Mar. 20, '37
Chase, Aimee C. .......... Dec. 3, '41
Clare, Jennie G............. Dec. 14, '39
Coar, Lydia E ............... Feb. 11 , '34
Copeland, Wilhelmina .. July 11, '32
Cornell, Mabel... ........... Dec. 14, '35
Costain, Mattie L. ........ J une 10, '40

Sisson ..........'. ..... 310
Silver Gate .......... 296
Oceanside .......... 381
Union .................. 58
Bethlehem ....... .453
Laurel ................245
Alex Gra. Bell 595
Golden Gate ........ 30
Charity ..............362
San Jose .............. 10

Mt. Shasta ...... 86
San Diego ......81
Oceanside ...... 69
Sacramento ..80
San Francisco 73
Willows ....:.....7i
Los Angeles .. 90
San Francisco 69
Campbell ........ 59
San Jose .......... 66

D amner , Jennie............Aug. 27, '42 Pacific ................136
Daniels, Harriet J .... ~ .. Sept. 12, '38 . Riverbank ......... .459
.Davis, Fannie ....... ~ ........ June 24, '34 Mount Moriah .. 44
Drew, Minnie ................ Oct. 20, '33 Unity .................. 368
Dupuy, Ruth .................. May 10, '40 Valle de France .. 329

San Francisco 67
Riverbank ......68
San Francisco 86
Glendale ........ Sl
Los Angeles .. 70

Edwards, Nellie B ......... Jan. 24, '39
Egan, Maud L ............. Mar. 2, '41
Erwin, Lillian B .........July 23, '41

Brooklyn ............225
San Diego .......... 35
Olivet ................ 205

Oakland ..........6'
San Diego ...... 65
Corning ..........69

Felton, Mary M ........... Oct. 3, '34
Ferguson, Ruth R. ......May 26, '34
Fetrow, Dora L. .......... May 11, '35
Finley, Ada L ...... ,........ Apr. 9, '40
. Ford, Sena E ................. July, 27 '41

Mt. Davidson ....481
Sotoyome .......... 123
Corinthian .......... 9
Los Angeles ...... 42
Harbor .............. 502

San Francisco 67
Healdsburg ....85
Marysville ......71
Los Angeles .. 71
Richmond ......71.

233 ·

Name
Admitted
Fortriede, Auguste E ... Apr. 24, '25
Foster, Elizabeth M ..... July 8, '36
Foster, Nellie G ...........June 21, '30

Lodge
No.
Crockett ............ 139
Hawaiian ............ 21
Berkeley ............ 363

Town
Age
San Francisco 65
Honolulu .:......73
Berkeley .,...... 79

Garnett,. Katherine ...... Apr. 13, '36
Given, Alice .................. Dec. 7, '40
Gordon, Errima ............ June 27, '36
Grant, Lillian . A . ........ ,.Oct. 6, '32
Greaves, Margaret !..... Oct. 18, '32
Griffin, Mate E. W ..... Feb. 24, '42
Griffith, ~ose L ...........Mar. 26, '36

Silveyville .......... 201
Hawaiian .......... 21
Occidental ........ 22
Georgetown ...... 25
Apollo ................ 396
Solano .............. :.229
Enterprise ........ 70

Dixon ... ;.......... 78
Honolulu ........ 72
San Francisco 63
Georgetown .. 68
Alameda ........ 62
Vallejo ............ 75
Yuba City ......76

Haley, Annie B........... Dec. 28, '40
Harris, Louise C........... Feb. 19, '33
Hazard, Marie ..............Aug. 10, '25
Henderson, Florence B. May 25, '40
Hiltner, Mary ............. Aug. 17, '40
Hoyt, Annie C............. Nov. 29, '41
Hughes, Annie A. ......Sept. 17, '41
Hughes, Laura H .......Mar. 11, '33
Hulsey, Tempie E ....... Sept. 18, '37
Hutchinson, Sara J ..... June 11, '34

Alameda .......·..... 167
Pacific ................ 136
San Jose .............. 10
Morning Star .... 68
Fairmount ......... .435
Rio Vista ............ 208
Lodi .................... 256
Phoenix ..............178
Fillmore ............ 379
Liberty .............. 299

Centerville ...... 89
San Francisco 67
San J ose .......... 72 . ,
Stockton ........ 62
San Francisco 71
Rio Vista ........ 71
Lodi ................ 78
San Bern'r' do 87
Fillmore .......... 86
Santa Clara .... 80

Jack, Mary .................... June 1, '31
Jackson, May R ......... Aug. 27, '25
James, Jennie L ........... Nov. 19, '33
Jenkins, Mary E;: ........... May 21, '31
Johns, Sarah ................ Sept. 6, '36
Johnson, Jane H ...........Jan. 6, '34
Johnson, Mary.............. Feb. 8, '42
Jones, Camilla T ........... Apr. 8, '34
Jones, Mary .................. Dec. 23, '38

McKinley .......... 347
Lompoc .............. 262
Live Oak ............ 61
Durant ................ 268
East Belt ............ 391
Presidio ..............354
Richmond .......... 375
Occidental ........ 22
Oakland ............ 188

San Francisco 66
Lompoc .......... 83
Oakland .......... 80
Berkeley ........ 72
Tuolumne ...... 86
San Francisco 76
Richmond ......66
San Francisco 72
Oakland .......... 69

Kaufmann, Eda B .......Oct. 2; ' 41
Keenan, Effie .................July 17, '33
Kellogg, Lillie F ........... Dec. 2, '30
Kelso, Katherine .......... Apr. 26, '35
Kidd, Millie A. ............ Aug. 21 , '32
Kimball, Annette C.....Aug. 3, '32
Kimball, Camelia L ..... Sept. 19, '26
Kimball, Lila M ........... Mar. 27, '33
Klevesahl, Catherine .. Aug. 27, '35

Los Angeles .. 60
Alex. Gra. Bell 595
Jewel .................. 374 San Francisco 65
Chula Vista ........ 626 Chula Vista .... 86
Redwood City.... 168 Redwood City 77
Amity ................ 370 ' San Francisco 75
Enterprise .......... 70 Yuba City........ 80
San Francisco .. 360 San Francisco 77
.Mount Moriah .. 44 · San Francisco 71
Hermann ............ 127 San Francisco 86

Lamb, Julia E ............... Oct. 23, '36
Laufman, Anna............ Aug. 27, '24
Lindsley, Luella P ....... Aug. 16, '34

King David's ....209
Sincerity ............ 132
Morning Star.. .... 68

SanLuisObis ... 70
Greenville ...... 91
Stockton ........ 76

MacKenzie, May W ... June 30, '41
Maltby, Sarah E ........... Dec. 16, '39
Mann, Bertha M ........... June 10, '33
Martin, Mary J ............. Dec. 4, '41
Masse, Eleanor R. ........ May 22, '36
Mayfield, Mary J ......... Sept. 22, '35

Bay View ............401
Chico .................. 111
Naval .................. 87
Franklin ............ 143
Yount .................. 12
Alpha .................. 431

Oakland .......... 64
Chico .............. 72
Vallejo ............ 74
Courtland ...... 69
Napa ..............69
Richmond ...... 70

McDowell, Alice M .... cMar. 24, '32
McFarlane, Susie ........ Sept. 15, '41
McLean. Lucy A ......... Nov. 28, '34

Alcatraz .............. 244
California .......... 1
Excelsior ............ 166

Oakland .......... 66
San Francisco 75
San Francisco 66

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Mears,Margaretta T ... Sept. 17, '41
Merrill, Ivy L ............Jan.25,'41
Miller, Esther J ........... Mar. 5, '34
Mills, Isabel F .............Mar. 22, '42
Moore, Mary S............. May 9, '33

Lodge
No.
Palestine ............351
Illinoistown ...... 51
Oriental .............. 144
Union ................ 58
Redwood City.... 168

Town
Age
Los Angeles ..61
Colfax ............64
San Francisco 75
Sacramento ....85
Redwood City 79

Nelander, Ida C. ........ Oct. 19, '40
Newman, Susanna ......] une 4, '29
Nielsen, Este M ........... Oct. 3, '40
Nielse~, Mary V ......... Nov. 21, '27
Noble, Grace F .............July 4, '32
Nutter, Martha L.......Mar. 25, '23

Balder ................393
Antioch .............. 175
Fruitvale ............336
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Trinity ................ 27
East Gate ..........290

San Francisco 79
Antioch ..........80
Oakland ..........64.
Santa Cruz......81
Weaverville ..82
Los Angeles.. 87

Ohlsen, Julia ................ Sept. 7, '37

Balder .................393

San Francisco 64

Pankow, Catherine...... Apr. 29, '29
Parish, Maude C. ........June 7, '41
Peairs, Lillian W ......... Feb. 11, '35
Preslar, Ida......:.............Jan. 19, '41

Crockett ............ 139
Visalia ................ 128
Normal Hghts...632
Alcatraz •........... 244

San Francisco 77
Visalia :...........69
San Diego......7.J
Oakland .... ,.....80

Ramsey, Hattie L .......June 23, '40
Raymond, Lillian F ... Sept. 21, '39
Rieser, Mary G............. Aug. 4, '39
Rogers, Leonora .......... Oct. 6, '25
Rogers, Louise............ Aug. 29, '42
Roe, Addie E'...............]uly 28, '42
Root, Emma F ............. Dec. 2, '32
Roscoe, Nettie P .........,.Jan. 13, '32
Ross, Agnes M ............. Apr. 11, '42
Ross, Catherine L ....... May 3, '39
· Rouscup, Annie M ..... Sept. 18, '38
Rownan, Matilda ........ Aug. B, '36

Monterey ..........217
Liberty ..............299
Brooklyn ............225
King David's ....209
Friendship ......c.210
Live Oak. ........... 61
Occidental ··'······· 22
Oroville .............. 103
Oak Grove ........ 2~5
Morgan Hill ......463
Burbank ............406
Sunnyside ..........577

Monterey ...... 81
Santa Clara....73
Oakland ..........79
SanLuisObis. 83
San Jose .......... 86
Oakland ..........76
San Francisco' 77
Oroville ..........71
Alameda ........72
Morgan Hill..69
Burbank ........85
Los Angeles..77

Schmidt, Ella M ........... Mar. 18, '34
Schwartz, Grace H .....July 12, '42
Settle, Mary.................. Apr. 10, '41
Seymour, Laura...:........ Feb. 1, '36
Shanks, Ella................... Sept. 1, '37
Smay, Madge M .........June 11, '36
Smith, Minnie A. ..........July 12, '37
Snyder, Amanda G ..... Apr. 13, '37
Soale, Carl B ................. May 15, '32
Sparrowe, Constance.. Sept. 27, '40
Spaulding, Lillian L.Nov. 17, '41
Stewart, Mary.:............Mar. 12, '32
Stroud, Laura L.~........June 2, '37
Sulsberg, Emma P ..... May 25, '42

Charter Rock ....410
Arlington ..........414
Buckeye ............ 195
Honolulu ............409
Hawaiian ............ 21
Alcatraz ..............244
Smyrna .............. 532
Bakersfield ........224
Corona ................324
Excelsior ..........166
Parnassus ..........388
Concord ..........,... 117
Vacaville ............ 134
Tehama .............. 3

Berkeley ........ 78
Los Angeles ..70
Wintets ..........86
Honolulu ........64
Honolulu ........ 71
Oakland .......... 75
Ceres ...........:.. 78
Bakersfield ....70
Pasadena ........85
San Francisco 74
San Francisco 71
Sacramento ..72
Vacaville ........69
Sacramento ....72

Thomas, Ellen S ........... Oct. 5, '38
Thomas, Elizabeth S... Dec. 7, '41
Thompson, Celia.......... Dec. 16, '33
Timm, Mattie A ........... Sept. 5, '37
Torr, Georgina R. ........Jan. 14, '33

Euclid ..................519
Santa Cruz ........ 38
Eden ....................113
Silveyville ......•...201
Elmhurst ............610

Los Angeles.. 61
Santa Cruz ......64
San Leandro.. 71
Dixon ............7$
Oakland .......... 76

Vale, Olive B ...............June 18, '36

Bethlehem :.........453

San Francisco 85

Wade, Georgia M ......... Feb. 24, '39
Walton, Ida M .............June 22, '25

Oak Grove..........215
Oakland ............188

Alameda ...... ,.7()
Oakland ..........83

235 .

Name
Admitted
Weigel, May L ........:.... Apr. 10, '32
West, Henrietta B....... May lO, '30
Wetzel, Laura C. .......... Dec. 18, '35
Wilcox, Edith ......,......... May 3, '36
Williams, Sarah E. ....Feb. 16, '41
Wilson, Maryan .......... Mar. 31, '36

Lodge
No.
Marin .................. 191
Santa Rosa.......... 57
Presidio ..............354
Durant ................268
Mizpah ..............378
Fraternity ..........399

Town
Age
San Rafael ......77
Santa Rosa......90
San Francisco 80
Berkeley ..:..... 75
Los Angeles.. 78
San Jose.......... 76

Yarrington, Grace ·M ... Feb. 26, '29

University ..........394

Los Angeles..72

Admitted during the year, Men 25-Average Age 74.70

Name
Admitted
Anderson, William A. ..J une 22, '42
Andrews, Frank H ..... April 25, '42
Baer, Reubin E ...........June 25, '42
Bennett, Frederick C... Dec. 4, '41
B
onfigli, Emilio.......... Sept. 11, '41
Bordeaux, William O ... Dec. 7, '41
Childs, Clarence E ....... Oct. 8, '41
Condon, Wilbert S .......Jan. 11, '42
DeWitt, Frank W .......June 30, '42
Gray, William D .........May 9, '42
Greene,
. Lawrence L ...June 9, '42
H am1 1ton, William T.~.Sept. 13 '41
J ewe II, Frank H ......... Aug. 7, '42
Maynes, William A. .. Mar. 25, '42
Meyers, Ernest C. ......Feb. 24, '42
Patchell, Robert K. .... Sept. 5, '41
Reissberg, J acob .......... Aug. 1, '42
:obie, Bira AG............... Apr. 1, '42
S oss,ld' enj. ............... Oct. 8, '41
pau mg, Horace R. ..Nov. 17, '41
~h~~ter, Fra~k W .....Aug. 17, '42
W~ld unt er,C arlesD ...Feb. 12, '42
1 er, 1ames C. ........ Aug. 18, '42
Windsor, John Wm ... Oct. 30, '41
W d
J
oo worth, ames L . Aug. 12, '42

Lodge
No..
Town
Age
Chowchilla ........485
Chowchilla ....58
Durant ................268 Berkeley ........72
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg .... 75
Charter R oc k ....410 B er ke Iey ........76
Speran. Italiana 219
San Francisco 71
Torrance ............447 Torrance ........83
Palo Alto .......... 346 Palo Alto........82
Apollo ................396 Alameda ........66
Torrance ............447 Torrance ........62
Eel River..:......... 147 Fortuna ..........66
Sa11 M'1gueI........285 S an M'igueL ...63
T UJunga
·
·
............592 T uiunga
........78
Bay View ......... .401 Oakland ..........73
Escalon .............. 591 Escalon .......... 70
Stockton ............498 Stockton ........81
M organ H 1' ll...... 463 M organ Hill..79
Doric .................. 216 San Francisco 67
Clay .................... 101 Dutch Flat......80
Ione ···················· 80 Ione ............ :...83
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco 77
Charter Rock. .. .410 Berkeley ........79
Abell .................. 146 Ukiah ..............77
Lincoln ..............470 San Francisco 85
W 00 di d
156 w di
an ··········
oo and ......82
Brooklyn ..........225 Oakland ..........83

Admitted during the year, Women 21-Average Age 73.11

Name
Admitted
Bausch, Ella A ............. Oct. 2, '41
Chase, Aimee C. .......... Dec. 3, '41
Chenoweth, Hannah E .Nov. 2, '42
Damner, Jennie............ Aug. 27, '42
Griffin, Mate E. W ..... Feb. 24, '42
Hoyt, Annie C. ............ Nov. 29 '41
Hughes, Annie A ....... Sept. 17: '41
Johnson, Mary.............. Feb. 8, '42
Kaufmann, Eda B ....... Oct. 2, '41
Mears,Margaretta T ... Sept. 17, '41
Martin, Mary ]. ............ Dec. 4, '41
McFar!ane, Susie........ Sept. 15, '41
Mills, Isa1;>el F ............. Mar. 22, '42
Ro·e, Addie E ...............July 28, '42

Lodge
No.
Sequoia .............. 349
Bethlehem ........453
Yosemite ............ 99
Pacific ................ 136
Solano ........:.......229
Rio Vista............208
Lodi ....................256
Richmond .......... 375
Alex. Gra. Bell 595
Palestine ............351
Franklin ....:....... 143
California .......... 1
Union ................ 58
Live Oak. ........... 61

Town
Age
Oakland .......... 79
San Francisco 73
Merced ............91
San Francisco 67
Vallejo ............75
Rio Vista........ 71
Lodi ...:............78
Richmond ......66
Los Angeles..60
Los Angeles .. 61
Courtland ......69
San Francisco 75
Sacramento ....85
Oakland ..........76

236

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
·
A ug. 29 ' '42
Rogers Loutse............
'
Ross Agnes
M .. _......... A pr. 11 ' '42
Schv.'.artz Grace H .....July 12, '42
!
F e b · 14 ' '42
Siple · Olive....................
Spauiding, Lillian . 1...Nov. 17, '.!~
Sulsberg, Emma P ..... May 2S,,
Thomas, Elizabeth S... Dec. 7, 41

Lodge
No.
Friendship ....... .210
Oak Grove ....... .215
Arlington ..........414
Ferndale ............ 193
Parnassus .......... 388
Tehama .............. 3
Santa Cruz ........ 38

Town
Ag1?
San Jose .......... 86
Alameda ........ 7'/.
Los An-geles .. 70
Ferndale ...... :.76,
San Francisco 71
Sacramento .... 72
Santa Cruz ...... 64

Died during the year, Women 13-Average Age 82.61

No.
.Date
Name
Age Lodge
Biggart, Alice M .............8S Gardena ........ 372 Dec. 28, '41
Chenoweth, Hannah E ... 91 Yosemite ...... 99 Mar. 23, '42
Collister, Mary L .............: Vitruvius ...... 14S Oct. 27, '41
Gordon, Isabel C. ............
Carquinez ....337 May 20,
Honey, Alice......................83 Keystone ...... 161 Nov. 1, ,
Lightner, Sarah J ............. 82 Starr King .... 344 Dec. 24, 41
Myers, Sallie P .................8i Arlington ..... .414 May 9, '42
Nevitt, Laura V ...............8 Hollywood .. 3SS Dec. 16, '.41
Perry Mary C. ................ 75 Mendocino .. 179 Dec. lS, 41
R_ack~rby: Elizabeth ........ 84S Crockett ...... 139 Sept. 7, '41
Siple, Ohve ....._. ................... 7 Ferndale ...... 193 Apr. 9, '42
.
99 Oct.
1 '41
Terrell, Cynthia E ........... 87
Yos.emite ······ 6
14' '42
Williams, Margaret K. .... 92 Frmtvale ...... 33 June
•

Buried
MGaerr~:~a

Sebastopol

::i ~~~;~~opolis

C
San Mateo o.
Los Angeles
Decoto.
Decoto
San Mateo Co.
Point Arena
Merced
Oakland

Died during the year, Men 2~Average Age 78.64 . .

No ·
Date
Buried
A ge L odge
ame
W
67 Gravel Range S9 Mar. 18, '42 Decato
Bosanko, Thomas
·······
.
M D
20, '41 Glendale
Chandler Alphonso L. ....8S Umty ············3 7
ec. 7 '42 Decato
32
'
88
Long
Beach..
Mar,
.
s M ar. 1•' '42 Berkeley
Crandall, Almeron............
.
G
s
79 Riverbank .... 4 9
Damels,
eorge ···········
.
SS May 14 '42 Decoto
· Th as E
70 Suisun ..........
'
Gilmartin,
om
······· .
71 Feb. 2 '42 Decato
1
4
4
Hinderliter, Andrew D ... 8 De.ta ............ 04
1' '42 Decato
.......... 2lOl Aug.
Hunn, G eorge.................... 79 Salinas
Cl
Feb. S,' '42 Decato
Ketcham, Frank................ 77
ay ·············· 19 Sept. lS '41 Decato
3
Kittredge Charles H .. :....78 Hollenbeck .. 319
Sept. 17' '41 Decoto
L awr_encBe,' Guerdon
C
67
Hollenbeck
··
. . R ..... 77 Santa Cruz .... 38 Feb. 19,' ,42 Watsonville
Martin,. en1amm
D 'd J ·········89 South Gate .... 320 Sept. 22, '41 Decato
McA Ipm,
av1
...........
24S 0
26, '41 Decato
Al
der
79 Laurel ..........
ct.
R
Mc ae ' Rexan
············
H"ll
463
N
b
K
79 Morgan
1
ov. 7 ' '41 Decato
Patchell,
o ert
·········
·
80 Aug. 1 '42 Decato
R oss, B enJ.· G··················· 83 Ione .............. 217 June 2' '4 D ecoto
Senestrari, hcob T ......... 78 Monterey ···· 5 Sept. 29' '412 Decoto
·
Ch ar 1es.................. 82 Georgetown 2 May 26 • '42 Ottumwa, I a .
Smith,
188 Sept. 19 ' '41 S an M a t eo Co··
.
h
w·11·
········ s
Smit ,
1 1am C............. 82 Oakland
.
37 July 14' '42 Decato
Stevens, Harry G............. 70 Utopia :·········486
Thompson, Jo h n W .........77 Caledoma
. .... 99 0
29 ' '41 San Jose
Wideman, Conrad J ......... 84 Fr~ternity ····31
ct. 13' '41 Decoto
Dec. 8 ' '42 Woodland
\V 1·11·iams, A r· th u r V ········· 68 Oriental ········ 44
56 M
. d sor, J o h n W ............. 8?.. Woodland .... 160 N ar. 17' '41 Oa kl an d
Wm
Wood, Uriah S ............ - ... 84 Mount Oso.. 4
c;iv.
'

N

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

237

· Donations to Decoto Home
East Bay Past Matrons' Association-It is estimated that more than
three thousand glasses of jam and jelly were brought on August IS; 32
cakes, 1 can olives, 49 gowns, 57 scarfs, 29 comforters, 15 pillows.
Mr. Andrew Bu~ke, San Francisco-Shoes, clothing, hats.

California Date Grow~rs Association, Indio, CaliforI?ia-30 lbs. dates.
Street, San Francisco-3 yards of
Gane
Fabricord. Bros. & Lane, 514 Howard
·
Mr. W. V. Marquart, Foothill Lodge No. 564; Oakland-Five packages
of miscellaneous magazines-.
Mrs. Adeline Foster, Newark-Three boxes of books.
Mrs. C. C. Hyner, Hayward, California-One large package of miscellaneous magazines.
Mr. E . E. Keough, Master, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44, San Francisco--4 suits, overcoat, lounging robe, shirts, hats, underwear.
Mr. Lee H. Newbert of Pacific Gas & Electric Company-Large
packages of Rotarian, Liberty, Life, Sunset, New Age, Elk, Reader's Digest
Magazines.
Five Points, Order of Eastern Star, Loma Cartmell, 4323 Montgomery
Street, Oakland-Face powder, cold cream and lipstick for the ladies of
the Home.
Lindsay Lodge No. 416, Lindsay, California-10 boxes of oranges.
Oroville Lodge No. 103, Oroville-2 pails olives, 2 boxes oranges.
J. J. Bazzel, 3708 Harbor View, Oakland, California-3 large packages
of magazines.
East Bay Past Matrons' Association-Christmas baskets of fruit for
the ladies of the Home.
Miss Helen Anthony, 1630 Central Avenue, Alameda, California-2
pairs of gloves, 7 undershirts, 2 suits, 3 pairs of shoes, 2 linen coats, S pairs
of underdrawers, 1 pair slippers.
Grand Lodge, Masonic Homes of California-Films and magazines.
Ethel de La Montanya Newell, Oakland-3 lai:ge oil paintings.
Mr. Crabbee, Master, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260-Geographic
Magazines from 1917 to 1942.
Mrs. Draineu, Berkeley-I large bundle miscellaneous magazines.
Messrs. J. Von Sladen and W. E. Banton of Occidental Lodge No. 224 bundles miscellaneous magazines.
Excelsior Lodge No. 166-Large bundle of miscellaneous magazines.
Mr. A. E. Nelson, Fruitvale, California-Box of magazines.
Mr. C. C. Hyner, Castro Valley, California-Large lot of miscellaneous
magazines.
Occidental Lodge No. 22, San Francisco-Clothing for womeri, large package of miscellaneous magazines.
Miss Mae Helene Bacon Boggs-Large book "My Playhouse Was a.
Concord Coach."
Gene Bros. and Lane, 514 Howard Street, San Francisco, CaliforniaS and one-half yards Fabricord.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

238

239

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Miss Alice A. Brown, Tahoe Pines, California-12 copies National
Geographic Magazine, 6 copies Popular Mechanics, 2 copies Reader's
Digest.
J. E. Selix, 123 Kearny Street, San Francisco, California-Complimentary altering of suit.
Miss Maud Timbrel, 1109 Oak Street, Oakland, California-2 large
packages of maga.zines.
Mr. H. G. Muller, 242 Kearny Street, San Francisco, California4 ties, 1 pair pants, 1 vest, 5 suits of underwear, 3 nightgowns, 2 shirts,
7 straw hats, 1 stack magazines. A member of Oriental Lodge No. 144.
Mesdames Agnes Braswell, Carrie M. and Mon Moore, Unity and
Lake Merritt Chapters-2 books of views, "See Your West."
Mrs. Alice Hazenfus, 5628 Laverne Avern,1e, Oakland, CaliforniaLarge package of magazines.
.
Mr.]. Walter Proctor, 3015 Hyde Street, Oakland, California, Sequoia
Lodge No. 349-Large package various magazines.
Morris E. Bruner, 3765 Webster Street, Oakland, California, Rockridge Lodge No. 468-Large package of National Geographic magazines.
Mrs. Rae E. Driscoll-2 Jig-saw Puzzles.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations for 1941, Decoto Home
"Amt.
Lodge
Lodge
No. Amt.
7.50
Cahuenga ........................ 513
Acorn ...............................494 $10.00
5.00
Calaveras
........................
78
5.00
A. F. E. Irwin .. :............. 645
5.00
Caledonia
.......
:
...............
.486
5.00
Alameda .....................~ .... 167
5.00
Calexico
.........................
.412
5.00
Alamo ............................. .122
California ........................ 1 20.00
5.00
Alex. Graham Bell... ..... 595
5.00
Callayomi ....................... .282
2.50
Alexandria ...................... 531
5.00
Carmel .; ..........................680
5.00
Alisa! ............................. ,.. 321
10.00
Carquinez ........................ 337
10.00
All States ........................ 593
5.45
Charity ............................ 362
5.00
Amador ........ ,................. 65
10.00
Charter
Rock
................
410
10.00
Amity .............................. 370
10.00
Chico ., .............................. 111
5.00
Antioch ............................ 175
10.00
Clay .................................. 101
10.00
Apollo .............................. 396
5.00
Clear
Lake
......................
183
5.00
Arcata ........................... :.. 106
10.00
Coalinga
.....
:
....................
387
10.00
Argonaut ........................ 461
5.00
Colusa ........... ~ ..................240
10.00
Argonne .......................... 514
5.00
..........................
590
Compass
5.00
Artesia ......................... ,.. 377
5.00
Concord
........
:
.................
117
5.00
Ashlar .............................. 30Q
10.00
Corinthian ...................... 9
5.00.
Athens ........................... .228
10.00
Corona ............................. 324
5.00
Azusa .............................. 305
5.00
Coronado
.....
:
.................
.441
12.50
Bakersfield ...................... 224
5.00
Covenant ... :.................... 527
12.50
Balder ............. ,................ 393
5.00
Crescent
..........................
45
10.00
Bay City ........................ 526
10.00
Crockett
.........................
;139
10.00
Bay View ....................... .401
5.00
Culver City ................... .467
5.00
Bear Mountain .... :......... 76
2.50
Cupertino ........................ 510
2.50
Bell ..................................483
5.00
Curtis
..............................
140
10.00
Berkeley .......................... 363
5.00
Damascus
........................
648
10.00
Blackmer ....................... .442
5.00
Delta ............................. ~ ..471
5.10
Blythe ..... .'....................... .473
5.00'
Dimond
............................
603
10.00
Brooklyn ....................... .225 .
10.00
Dinuba
............................
385
5.00
Buckeye ......................... .195
Doric .......................... :.,.. .216 12.50
10.00
Burlingame ................... .400

No.

Lodge
No. Amt.
2.50
Dos Palos ......................681
5.00
Downey .......................... 220
10.00
Dunsmuir ........................ 297
5.00
Durant ............................268
5.00
East Bay ....................... .489
East Gate ........................ 290
25.00
5.00
East . San Diego .............. 561
Eden ._.•........ :.................. 113
5.00
5.00
El Cajon Valley.............. 576
El Centro ........................384
10.00
5.00
El Dorado ...................... 26
Elmhurst ........................610
i5o
10.00
El Segundo .................... 507
5.00
Elsinore ......................... .289
Elysian .•......................... .418 ·15.00
5.00
Enterprise ...................... 70
1.25
Eureka -........................... 16
12.50
Evergreen ...................... 259
12.50
Excelsior ........................ 166
10.00
Fairmount ..................... .435
5.00
Fallbrook ........................ 317
5.00
Far West ........................ 673
5.00
Ferndale ........................ :.193
Fidelity ........................... .120 25.00
10.00
Fillmore .......................... 379
5.00
Fort Crook .................... 575
5.00
Francis Drake ................ 376
5.00
Franklin .......................... 143
5.00
Fremont ......................... .497
12.50
Fresno ............................. 247
Friendship ......................21 O 10.00
5.00
Fruitvale ........................ 336
5.00
Galt ................................. .267
George Washington .... 525
5.00
5.00
Gold Hill ........................ 32
12.50
Golden Gate ......,........... 30
5.00
Golden Rule ................. .479
2.50
Guardian ........................ 596
Hammonton ................. .433 25.00
10.00
Hanford .......................... 279
25.00
Hawaiian ........................ 21
2.50
Henry Clay .................... 95
5.00
Henr'y Knox .................. 662
Henry S. Orme ............. .458
5.00
25.00
Hermann ........................ 127
10.00
Hesperian ..................... .264
5.00
Highland Park ............... 382
5.00
Hill's Ferry ................... .236
5.00
Hiram .............................. 43
10.00
Hollenbeck .................... 319
5.00
Hollywood ...................... 355
5.00
Holtville ......................... .425
Honolulu .................'. ..... .409 25.00
10.00 .
Howard .......................... 37
2.50
Humboldt ...................... 79

Lodge
No. Amt.
5.00
Illinoistown .................... 51
5.00
Indian Rock ................. :638
2.50
I one .................................. 80
2.50
Jewel ................................ 374
2.50
Jonathan .......................... 545
5.00
Jubilee ............................. ,604
25.00
Kauai ................................ 589
Kaweah ............................ 665
5.00
Keith ................................ 187
5.00
King David's .................. 209
5.00
10.00
La Brea ....................... ~ ..650
5.00
La Fayette ...................... 126
5.00
La Jolla .......................... 518
Lakeshore ...................... 551 · 5.00
5.00
Landmark ...................... 253
2.50
La Parfaite Union ........ ~. 17
5.00
Las Palmas .................... 366
5.00
Laurel .,............................ 245
15.00
Le Progres .................... 371
5.00
Libertas ......................... .466
10.00
Liberty ., .......................... 299
25.00
Live Oak ........................ 61
10.00
Lodi .................................. 256
15.00
Long Beach .................... 327
10.00
Los Angeles .................. 42
10.00
Los Gatos ... :.................. 292
5.00
Madera ........................... .280
5.00
Madison .......................... 23
5.00
Malta .......................... ., ...661
5.00
Maricopa ........................434
12.50
Marin .............................. 191
10.00
Martinez .......................... 41
5.00
McKinley ......: ................. 347
5.00
Meridian ........................667
5.00
Midway ........................... .426
Mill Valley ...................... 356 25.00
12.50
Mission ............................ 169
5.00
Molino ............................ 150
Monterey ........................ 217
5.00
5.00
Morgan Hill ................. .463
5.00
Mosaic ............................ 218
2.50
Mt. Diablo ......................448
5.00
Mt. Moriah .................... 44
10.00
Mt. Oso ......................... .460
5.00
Mountain View ........... .194
5.00
Natoma ............................ 64
15.oo
Naval .............................. 87
5.00
Needles ............................ 326
2.50
Nevada ............................ 13
Nicolaus .......................... 129
5.00
Norwalk ........... :.............. 315
5.00
5.00
Oak Grove ......................215
Oakland .......................... 188 10.00
Occidental ...................... 22 20.00
5.00
Ocean Park .................... 369

240

Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Amt.

5.00
Olive Branch ..............;.269
25.00
Oriental ......:........:: .........144
7.50
Orland ..,..........::.:...........265
5.00
Oxnard ••.......:..................341
20.00
Pacific .::........................... 136
10.00
Pacific Grove .;:.............331
Pajaro .
ll ff 10.00
5.00
Palestine .•..........::..........351
5.00
Palisades ........................637
10.00
Palo Alto .....................:..346
25.00
Palos Verdes ..................389
5.00
Park ................................ 449
10.00
Parnassus ........................388
25.00
Pasadena .....................:..272
5.00
Paso Robles .................. 286
5.00
Patterson ....................... .488
5.00
Paul Revere .................. 462
5.00
Penrhyn .•........................258
5.00
Perris ....••,.................•.....411
2.50
Petaluma ........................ 180
10.00
Phoenix ····-····················178
15.00
Piedmont ........................Sil
5.00
Pinole •............................. 353
Pittsburg ........................429
i .50
2.50
Plumas ............................ 60
10.00
Poinsettia ......................633
2.50
Point ................................ 503
10.00
Point Firmin ................558
10.00
Pomona ......: ........:.......... 246
5.00
Provident ........................609
Reading .......................... 254
10.00
Redondo ................:.....•......328 $10.00
Redwood City ................. .168
10.00
12.50
Richmond ..........................375
5.00
Rio Vista .............................208
5.00
Rising Light .:...................:397
5.00
Riverside ......................:.....635
5.00
Rockridge .................:....... .468
2.50
Roosevelt ..................- ........500
Roseville ............................ 222
5.00
2.50
Russian River ....:.............181
10.00
Sacramento ........................ 40
5.00
San Benito ..................:.....211
10.00
San Bernardino ................348
San Diego .......................... 35 25.00
10.00
San Fernando ....................343
12.50
San Francisco · ..................360
San Gabriel ........................546
5.00
San Gorgonio ..................668
10.00
San Jacinto ..•..:.·................. 338
5.00
5.00
San Jose ............................ 10
10.00
San Mateo ..........................226
5.00
San Pedro ..:.......................332
10.00
San Simeon ...................... 196
Santa Ana .........................:241 10.00

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Amt.

10.00
Santa Barbara ·-·'············.192
10.00
Santa Cruz ........................ 38
2.50
San:a Maria ......................580
5.00
Santa Monica ....................307
7.50
Santa Rosa ........................ 57
5.00
Seaport ......................... c•••• 550
5.00
Seas:de ................................504
Security ......................:.....:.581
5.GO
Selma ...................:.::....::...:.277
5.00
5.00
Semper Virens ..................552
lQ;OIJ
Sequoia ................... ~ ..........349
10.00
Service ................................594
5.00
Sierra Madre ...................•408
10.00
Silver Gate ........................296
5.00
Silver Trowel ....................415
10.00
Silveyville ..........................201
5.00
Sincerity ·····-·····················132
5.00
South Pasadena ..............367
10.00
South San Francisco........212
South West ...................... 283 · 10.00
10.00
Southern California ........ 278
2.50
South Gate ........................320
5.00
Speranza Italiana ............219
5.ob
Standard ·······- ··················.440
S:anislaus .......:..................206
10.00
12.50
Starr King ........................344
5.00
St. Helena ·········-··············· 93
Suisun ................................ 55
5.'JO
Sun Garden ........................530
10.00
Sunnyvale .. :.......................511
5.00
S. W. Hackett....................574
5.00
5.00
Table Mountain ................ 124
Taft ....... ,............................516
5.00
Tehachapi ..........................313
7.50
10.00
Tehama .............................. 3
5.00
Temblor ·····'·······- ··············.477
Texas .................................. 46
2.50
Thousand Oaks ................478
5.00
Torrance ............................447
5.00
Trinity ................................ 27
5.00
Truckee ..............................200
5.00
Tuolumne .......................... 8
7.50
Tuscan ................................:51 • 10.00
Union ................................ 58
12.50
Unity .............:....................368
5.00
Vacaville ............................ 134
5.00
Vallejo ................................487
10.00
Veritas ................................640
2.50
Vesper ................................ 84
5.00
Victorville ..........................634
5.00
Visalia ................................ 128
10.00
w ashington ...................... 20 10 00
Western Star ·.................... 2
5.00
10.0Q
Whi '. e Pine .........................555
Willow Glen ......................676
2.50

No.

Amt.

Wilmington ........................ 198
Winnedumah ....................287
Woodbridge ...................... 131
Woodland .......................... 156
Woodstock ...:...................A91
Yerba Buena ·-'·········-·······403
Yolo .................................... 81
Yosemite ............................ 99

Lodge

5.UO
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50

Amt.
70th and 71st District Officers'
Association ..............................$12.50
Santa Clara Valley Officers'
Association .............................. 2.50

Lodges of Perfection
Lodge
No.

Amt.

California .......................... 10
Oakland .............................. 2
Peninsula ............................ 14
Sacramento ........................ 4
San Francisco .................... 1

$12.50
25.00
10.UO
12.::0
12.50

Councils, R. & S. M.
Council
No. Amt.
California .......................... 2
Gateway .............................. 13
King Solomon's .............. 29
Pasadena ............................ 16
Pomona .............................. 21
Siskiyou ............................ 24
Valley ................................. 27

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.

$ 2.50
2.50
2.jO
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50

Amt.

Coalinga ...........:................ 114 $ 5.00
Crown ................................ 72
5.00
Delta .................................. 27
2.50
Dixon ................................ 48
5.00
Donner ................................ 39
2.50
Doric ................................... 66
5.00
El Centro ..........................109
5.00
Ferndale ............................ 78
5.00
Grass Valley ...................... 18
2.50
Hanford .............................. 74
25.00
Howard .............................. 14
5.00
Keystone ............................ 56
10.GO
Marin .................................. 102
5.00
Martinez ............................ 31
5.00
Mill Valley ........................ 108
2.50
Nevada ............................... 6
2.50
Ontario .............................. 105
2.'iO
Petaluma ............................ 22
1.25

241

No.

Amt.

Pomona ...................- ......... 76
Redondo ............................ 101
San Francisco .................. 1
San Luis ............................ 62
Santa Cruz ......................... 38
Sa.nta Monica Bay............ 97
Siloam ................................ 37
South Pasadena ................112
St. Helena .......................... 63
Sutter ...............................:.. 11
Temple ................................ 41
Washington ........................13
Wilmington ...............:......141
Woodland .......................... 46

Chapter

5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Commanderies
Comm.andery
No.
Auburn ................................ 52
.Bakersfield ........................ 39
California .......................... 1
Calvary .............................. 62
Chico .................................. 12
Colusa ................................ 24
Eureka ................................. 35
Ftesno ................................ 29
Golden West .................... 43
Hollywood ........................ 56
Marysville .......................... 7
Mount Shasta .................... 32
Mt. Olivet .......................... 20
Naval ......... ......................... 19
Nevada................................ 6
Oroville .............................. 5
Pasadena ............................ 31
Rt'd Bluff ... ....................... 17
Sacramento ........................ 2
San Diego .......................... 25
San Jose ............................ 10
San Luis Obispo................ 27
San Pedro ........................ 60
Santa Cruz ....................:... 44
Santa. Monica BaY:.........•. 61
Southern California ........ 37
St. Bernard ...................... 23
Ukiah ....•............................. 33
Vacaville ...........................• 38
Ventura .............................. 18
Watsonville ........................ 22
Woodland .......................... 21

Amt.

$ 2.50
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.!JO
5.00
5.00
1.25
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
2.50
2.50

S.00
5.00

5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

5.00

Chapters, O. E . s.

ChaPfer

No.

Amt.

Mercedes ............................126 $10.00
Mill Valley ........................219
10.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

242

Chapter
No.
Mira Monte ......................141
San Rafael ........................215

Amt.
5.00
10.00

Miscellaneous

Amt.
Anderson, Anton ........................$ 5.00
Bodourian, Mike ................._....... 1.50
Bradshaw, Charles .................... 2.50
Brewster, L. B........................... 5.00
Columbia Acacia Club................ 5.00
Feher, Alex ................................ 2.50
Fisher, Herbert J ......................... 10.00
Guleserian, Puzant .................. 2.50
Hilzinger, Henry ...................... 1.00

Amt.
Holcomb, R. G......................:...... 2.50
Johnson, Amory K..................... 5.00
Kertell, Wm. .............................. 2.50
La bes, Jack .................................. 2.80
Metcalf, Margaret Stout .......... 5.00
Moore, 'J. L ....... •··············'·········· 2.00
Nutter, H. M ............................... 12.50
Pederson, Mr. and Mrs.
Karl E ..................................... 12.50
Sherrill, Marcus H ..... :........... :... 5.00
Smallwood, Claude .................. 5.00
Stevenson, E. H ......................... 15.00
Stocker, Leslie W....................... 5.00
Verkuyl, Eleanor 'T..................... 5.00
Wescott, C. J............................... 5.00

Visitations to Decoto Home
September 1, 1941-San Mateo Lodge No. 221. Masonic play: "Rose
on the Altar."
September 7, 1941-Church Services. Miss L~mb, Christian Endeavor
Society. Rev. Hoyt Hamilton, Ashland Presbyterian Church.
•
September 9, 1941-Lee Grabel. Master Magician. Picnic and Barbecue
for the Home folks.
September 14, 1941-Chure'h Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church. Carquinez Lodge No. 337. Chas. A. Gray, Master.
September 21, 1941-Church Services. Rev. W. A. Pankey, Hayward
Presbyterian Church.
September 28, 1941-McKinley Lodge No. 347, Richmond. _P rogram.
Luncheon at noon. Officers and ladies.
September 28, 1941-Church Services. Rev. R. C. Day of Niles Congregational Church.
October 4, 1941-Pacific Gas and Electric Company. Players Club.
Program.
October 5, 1941-Miss Lamb of Decato Christian Endeavor Society. ·
October 10, 1941-Foothill Lodge No. 564, Oakland. Orchestra, Entertainment and Magician.
October 12, 1941-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley of Hayward
Methodist Church.
October 19, 1941-Scottish Rite Bodies of Oakland. Concert.
October 26, 1941-Church Services. Rev. R. C. Day of Niles Congregational Church.
October 29, 1941-Rostain Students League. Entertainment.
October 31, 1941-Masquerade Ball. Refreshments and Pri:;;es.
November 2 1941-Miss Lamb of Decato Christian Endeavor Society.
Speaker: Rev. Hoyt Hamilton, Ashland Presbyterian Church.
November 9, 1941-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church.
_,.November 15, 1941-Alameda Assembly No. 52, Order of Rainbow for
Girls. Entertainment.
November 16, 1941-Church Services. Rev. J. L. Webster, Newark.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

243

November 16, 1941-Masters and Wardens of Stockton area. Entertainment.
November 23, 1941-Thanksgiving Services. Rev. Arnold Nash, Centerville, California.
November 30, 1941-Church Services. Rev. H. R. Jeschke, San Bruno,
California.
December 7, 1941-Church Services. Miss Lamb of Decato Christian
Endeavor Society.
December 14, 1941-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley. Hayward
Methodist Church.
December 21, 1941-Christmas Services. Charlotte Walworth and Rev.
W. Morrison, Twenty-third Avenue Baptist Church, Oakland, California.
December 24, 1941-Rev. A. W. Pankey and Choral Society of Young
People.
December 25, 1941-Christmas Carols in main diningroom. Disposition of presents.
December 28, 1941-Church Services. Rev. W. A. Pankey, Hayward
Presbyterian Church.
December 31, 1941-New Year's Eve Program by members of the
Home. Dancing, refreshments.
January 4, 1942-Miss Lamb, Decato Christian Endeavor Society.
January 11, 1942-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church. Concord Lodge No. 117, Sacramento, California.
January 18, 1942-Rev. W. A. Pankey, Hayward Presbyterian Church,
Hayward, California.
January 25, 1942-Church Services. Rev. H. R. Jeschke, San Bruno,
California.
February 1, 1942-Miss Lamb, Decato Christian Endeavor: Speaker,
Dr. Henry McCall.
February 8, 1942-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church.
February 15, 1942-Church Services. Rev. W. A. Pankey, Haywa~d
Presbyterian Church.
February 21, 1942-Washington's and Lincoln's Birthday party. 17th
Century Minuet danced by members of the Home. Entertainment and
refreshments. Dancing.
February 22, 1942-Church Services. Rev. W. A. Pankey, Hayward
Presbyterian Church.
March 1, 1942-Miss Lamb of Decato Christian Endeavor Society.
March 8, 1942-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church.
March 22, 1942-San Carlos Masonic Club. Entertainment. Church
Services.
April 5, 1942-Easter Services. Rev. W. A. Pankey and Chorus of
Hayward Presbyterian Church.
April 12, 1942-Fairmount Lodge No. 435, San Francisco, California.
April 19, 1942-Church Services. Rev. vV. A. Pankey, Hayward Presbyterian Church.
·
April 21, 1942-Tehama Lodge No. 3, Sacramento, California.
April 26, 1942-Church .Services. Rev. Jackson L. Webster, Centerville.

244

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

May 3, 1942-Church Services. Rev. Henry McCall, Mt. Eden Presbyterian Church. Miss Lamb, Decoto Christian Endeavor Society.
May 10, 1942-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
May 16, 1942-Foothill Lodge No. 564, Oakland. Entertainment and
Dance. Apollo Lodge No. 396, Alameda. Barbecue and 2nd Degree conferred.
'
May 17, 1942-Church Services conducted by Order of Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 9, Sacramento, California.
May 21, 1942-Play by Centerville Union Senior High School.
May 23, 1942-Alameda County Masonic District No. 39. Conferred
3rd Degree.
May 24, 1942-Church Services. Rev. R. C. Day, Niles Congregational
Church.
May 30, 1942-Memorial Ser>~ices. Annual visit to the Home cemete~y.
May 31, 1942-Church Services. Rev. H. R. Jeschke, San Bruno Congregational Church.
June 6, 1942-0rder of Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 21 of Hayward.
June 7, 1942-Church Services. Dr. Henry McCall, Mt. Eden Presbyterian Church. Miss Lamb, Decoto Christian Endeavor Society.
June 14, 1942-Church Services. ' Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward MethQdist Church.
June 21, 1942-Church Services. Rev. 'vV. V'. Immel, Hayward Christian Church.
June 28, 1942-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
July 4, 1942-Patriotic Exercises in Assembly Hall, by members of
the Home. Dancing, refreshments, games, prizes.
July 5, 1942-Church Services. Rev. Hoyt Hamilton, Mt. Eden Presbyterian Church.
·
July 7, 1942-Prof. Musick, Principal of Decoto Grammar School.
Bomb Films.'
·
July 12, 1942-Church Services. Rev. J. V./. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
July 19, 1942-Church Services. Rev: J . W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
July 21, 1942-John P . Jarman Lodge No. 669, San Jose. 2nd Degree.
July 26, 1942-Church Services. Rev. W. V. Immel, Christian Church,
Hayward.
August 9, 1942-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward,
Methodist Church. Master.s ' and Wardens' of East Bay. Barbecue and
Entertainment.
August 15, 1942-Annual Visit of the Officers and Members of ~he
East Bay Past Matrons' Association of the East Bay Cities, accompanied
by the Worthy Grand Matron and Worthy Grand Patron, of the 0 . E. S:
August 16, 1942-Church Services. Rev. W. V. Immel, Hayward
Christian Church.
August 30, 1942- Mrs. Dawn Rostain, 17312 Ehle, Hayward, Califor11ia. Musical entertainment by pupils.

Number of Employees from
August 1, 1941, to July 31, 1942
August ........................................
September ...........:.................:....
October ........................................
November ....................................
December ....................................
January ........................................
February ......................................
March ..........................................
April ..............................................
1-fay ..............................................
June ..............................................
July ................................................

60

Number of Residents at Masonic
Home at Decoto from
August 1, 1941, to July 31, 1942

57
55
56
53
55

57
57
58
58
58
56

680
Monthly average for the year:
56.08.

245

August ......................
September ................
October ....................
November ................
December ................
January ....................
February ..................
March ......................
April ..........................
May ..........................
June ..........................
July............................

Men
157
155
155
155
152
153
152
149
151
150
153
153

Women
143
145
145
147
146
146
148
148
148
147
146
148

1,835
1,757
Monthly aver~ge for the year:
men, 152.11; women, 146.05.

Report of the Superintendent-Covina Home
To the Truste es of the Masonic Homes of California:

The last year in the Covina Home has been marked by decreasing
enrollment, many changes in the personnel of our employed staff necessity to increase salaries, rise ii} prices of all commodities inevit;ble increase in our per capita cost of operation.
'
Of the list of employees as of December 7 1941 half were no longer
wi~h us at the end of July. Some of these h'ad g~ne into more highly
paid war work. We are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain satisfactory persons for various types of service required to be done in the
Home.
e are having serious trouble in getting dental service, since
our dentist for the past fifteen years, Dr. Donald H. Wilkins entered
the . ~rmy. Under these . circumstances, it is difficult to pre;erve the
stability and settled condition of operation to be desired for the best
rearing of children.

"!"

Admissions and Discharges-During the past year there were nine
admissions of children and twenty-nine discharges. Of the twenty-nine
discharges, causes of discharge were:
Graduated from high school............................:...............................15
Returnecl to parents at their request, account remarriage ...... 9
Returned to father at his request .................... ~ ............................. 1
Joined CCC at age of 18..........:.............•.......................:..........:...... 1
Unsatisfactory conduct.:............................... ,...................................~ 3
"Unsatisfactory conduct" means conduct and attitude which would
damage other children of the Home more than continued residence would
benefit the child concerned. In such cases, occasionally the greatest good
t~ the gre~test number dictates the removal of the out-of-step boy or
girl from the Home group. Of those thus discharged during the past
year all three are now doing. well. Two of them were placed in other

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

environment under our supervision and were assisted financially by the
Hoine until they graduated from high school; in the third case it was
possible to put the burden of responsibility upon the boy's parent, whose
circumstances had improved since the boy's placement in the Home. We
are in cordial relationship with all three of these young people, and they
all say that the shock of their dismissal was the one thing necessary to
wake them up.

keep their contact with the Home and with each other through our
Alumni Newsletter will be a useful and stabilizing inf! uence in their lives.

Our class of .high school graduates of 1942 are occupied as follows:
In colleges or vocational training schools ....................................6
In defense indus tries ....~·-·----····················--·---·····--·'·····-········--···········-·4
In clerical or business employment....,...............·----·····················.4
In Armed Services of the United States...................................... !
Safety P recautions-\Var conditions so far have touched the children
in the Home but little. Our inland location gives us a feeling of relative
security. Those who were responsible for the construction of our buildings fortunately provided that all of them in which children live should
be of Class A construction; walls, floors and roofs are of reinforced concrete, fire-proof and shock-resistant.
Although it seems unlikely that any enemy action will come to our
neighborhood, we have taken precautions to meet it should it occur. A
number of our staff members have had instruction in air raid warden's
work, including first aid ; several of them hold air raid warden's certificates; the Home is an air raid warden's post. We have increased our
fire protection, and have our older boys trained for their duties as auxiliary firemen.
The civil authorities of Los Angeles have designated our hospital
as an emergency evacuee hospital, which in case of necessity would care
for convalescent cases. We are prepared also to receive, in case of emergency need, as many as fifty evacuee children.
No Summer Cam~We felt that it was wise this year to forego the
summer camp at Balboa Island, which, during many years past, has
been a feature of our annual program. A special recreation program was
set up at Covina, with a te.mporarily employed recreational leader; and we
were thus enabled to carry on a vacation program which was much enjoyed by the children.
Reduced Transportation-A limitation on our freedom of movement
has been imposed by the change in transportation facilities between the
Home and Los Angeles. Electric cars servicing this area were taken off
in November, replaced by buses whose nearest approach to the Home is
a mile and a half away. This has been .a great inconvenience not only to
children, but to employees of the Home, and to relatives of the children
who must depend tipon this transportation when visiting the Home. It
has put an extra demand upon the Home's bus and station wagon at the
very time when the rubber shortage makes it imperative to conserve
the use of these vehicles.
Alumni in the Service-We have information concerning forty-nine
alumni of the Home who are in the armed services of the United States.
At this time we are particularly g lad that it has been our custom through
past years to keep in touch with our graduates; now when so .many of
them are having to sever home ties, we believe that every opportunity to

247

ln the main hallway of our Administration Building has been placed
a panel bearing the name and rank of each former Masonic Home boy
or girl serving in the armed forces. As the military effort of the nation
develops, other names and. data will be added.
A . Civilian Hero-In thi"s time when heroic deeds ate so much in our
minds 0 I should like to speak of one of our former · children, not in uniform, whose heroism under disastrous conditions should be an inspiration
to us all.
Ben Helwig entered the Home in 1927 from Orange Grove Lodge
No. 293. He was then eight years old. When he was sixteen years old
he suffered an accidental eye injury on the playground. In spite of the
best medical and surgical care, the injury resulted in complete loss of
his vision.
We placed him in the California School for the Blind at Berkeley,
where he "remained until he graduated at the age of twenty. Following
this he attended the Oakland Technical High School, where, despite his
handicap, he was able to complete with credit a course in mechanical
work in June, 1941. He then returned to his mather's home in Los Angeles. By means of our Scholarship Fund he was provided with a
trained guide dog, which enabled him to find his way about Los Angeles.
With the developme.nt of the national defense program he desired to
obtain some mechanical equipment, particularly a lathe and its adjuncts.
Through the generosity of interested donors he was provided with what
he asked for. With these he went to work in a small out-building in the
rear of his mother's home. At the same time he applied for a job in a
machine shop located in the neighborhood. The machine shop proprietor
visited him in his work shop and discovered his skill and ability. He is
now "working in this machine shop as an inspector of aluminum alloy
cable drums for aileron controls in Douglas warplanes. His pluck and
determination have attracted considerable public attention and have been
made the subject of illustrated stories in the Los Angeles Times and in
the Flying Aces Magazine.
Training Boys for War-Th.e present feverish prosperity of the defense industries and the strong demand for every type of human service
in connection with the war have had an unfavorable effect upon the
thinking and behavior of our older children, especially the boys. As they
reach the age of seventeen or eighteen, they find that they are in great
demand for various employments, at wages which are out of proportion
to their real value as employees; and this tends to give them a distorted
idea of their own maturity and competence. These ideas percolate downward to those who are only fourteen to sixteen years old.
It seems probable that these boys will be called to some form of
military service as soon as they arrive at the age of eighteen. Having
in mind the requirements which will then be made of them, we believe
it to be tC> their interest that we require from them a more serious
application to their tasks and studies than was thought necessaty in
times of peace. They will have to meet enemies who have been subjected
to drill and discipline" from the beginning of their adolescence; something
akin to this must go into the training of young Americans who are to
meet and overcome such foes. In these times it is not sufficient to excuse

248

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

them by saying "boys will be boys"; we must keep in mind that these
boys will soon be men, and must bear men's burdens in a war-torn
world. The best we can do is to train them, and make them sufficiently
hard and tough to meet the severe tests which are ahead.
JOHN M. DOWNEN,

Superintendent.

Children at Covina Home, July 31, 1942
GIRLS-38
Lodge
No.
Palos Ver des ....389
All States ........,... 593
Utopia ................ 537
Starr King..........344

Location Age
Long Beach ...JO
Long Beach .. 16
Los Angeles .. 17
San Francisco 16

Bibby, Cecilia .............. Dec. 20, '41
Bottger, Eleanor.......... Mar. 3, '36
Bottger, Jewel..............Mar. 3, '36
Burnham, Faye .... ~ .....June 22, '42

Ocean Park ......369
Hermann ............127
Hermann ............127
Harding ............ 584

Ocean Park .... 14
San Francisco 13
San Francisco 15
Los Angeles .. 5

Campbell, Claire ..........July 10, '37
Campbell, Louise..........July 10, '37
Casabian, Lucy ............ Dec. 18, '38
Clark, Catherirte.......... Nov. 29, '39
Clark, Irene.................. Nov. 29, '39
Clinton, Betty .............. Nov. 7, '36
Connery, Rose .............. Aug. 29, '35
Dalmeyer, Sally Ann .. Mar. 15, '36
Dudley, Vereen............ Mar. 4, '40

Henry Knox ......662 Los Angeles .. 16
Henry Knox ......662 Los Angeles .. 14
Sunset ................352 Los Angeles .. 14
Seaside ................504 Long Beach .. 16
Seaside ................504 Long Beach .. 13
Altadena ........ :...678 · Altadena ........ 15
Ramona ..............457 Monterey Pk. 17
Sunrise ................ 522 Los Angeles .. 17
Richmond ..........375 San Francisco 10

Johnston, Marybelle.. Sept. 4, '37

Lynwood ............600

Lynwood ........ 16

Klahr, Marjorie ............ Apr. 27, '41
Kotsenburg, Gertrude ..June 11, '40
La Voie, Audrey.......... Feb. 22, '38
McCallum, Margaret.. Mar. 31, '35
Mills, Elizabeth ............Nov. 17, '40
Munck, Adele................Dec. 2, '39
Munro, Jean.................. Aug. 21, '36
Muse, Donna................ Sept. 17, '36

Florence : .............649
La Mesa..............407
Phoenix .............. 178

Los Angeles .. 12
La Mesa ........ 16
San Bern'do....15

Monte Vista........655
Live Oak.... :......... 61
Hollywood ........ 355
Alta Loma..........643
Dunsmuir ..........297

Long Beach ..16
Oakland .......... 12
Hollywood ....15
Long Beach .. 16
Dunsmuir ...... 13

Parbery, Catherine ......Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, Phyllis .......... Mar. 26, '31
Parke, Pauline............Mar. 23, '41
Peterson, Jacqueline......July 22, '36
Plaster, Elizabeth ........ Sept. 23, '32
Roach, Marion............ Aug. 24, '40

....

Excelsior ............166 San Francisco 15
Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco 16
Tujunga ..............592 Tujunga .......... 9
Argonne ............ 514 . San Francisco 12
South Park.......... 563 Los Angeles .. 15
Antioch. .............. 175 Antioch .......... 16

Satterberg, Lorraine.... Sept. 6, '40
Schoenfeld, May ............May 19, '40
Smith, Winifred............Jan. 27, '39
Speziali, Pearl ..............June 26, '36

Stockton ........... .498
Olive Branch ......269
Presidio ..............354
Hemet ................615

Stockton ........ 16
Tulare .... ........ 8
San Francisco 15
Hemet ............ 12

Taylor, Marilyn .......... Sept. 17, '39

Victory ..............474

San Francisco 11

Whitaker, Patricia........ Apr. 29, '36

Henry S. Orme ..458

Los Angeles .. 12

Admitted
Name
Abrams, Hildred ........June 12, '42
Aldrich, Marian............ Aug. 4, '39
Alex, Virginia ..............June 25, '37
Alexander, Arnell........ Mar. 24, '38

249

BOYS-61
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Abrams; Samuel J .......Aug. 9, '41
Palos Verdes .... 389
Anderson, Ray...............J uly 6, '38 Garden Grove.... 586
Anderson, Robert ...... Feb. 25, '37 Garden Grove .. 586
Anderson, Roy ..............July 6, '38 Garden Grove.... 586

Location Age
Long Beach .. 13
Garden Grove 10
Garden Grove 12
Garden Grove 10

Bayer, Oscar................Aug. 27, •33 · Westlake ............ 351
Bayer, Roy .................... Aug. 27, '33 Westlake ............351
Bibby, Frank .............. Dee. 20, '41
Ocean Park ......369
Breinin, Lawrence.:.... Aug. 11, '29 San Bernardino ..348
Brown, Robert.............. Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles ........ 42

Los Angeles ..16
Los Angeles .. 14
Ocean Park .... 11
San Bern'tio .... 17
Los Angeles .. 16

Casabian, Daniel .......... Dec. 18, '38
Chew, Donald................Jan. 22, '39
Chew, William ..............Jan ..22, '39

Sunset ................ 352
Rio Vista............208
Rio Vista.............208

Los Angeles .. 12
Rio Vista ........ 16
Rio Vista ........ 11

Dyer, John Joel............July 8, '40

Yorba Linda ......469

Yorba Linda .. 8

Fretheim, Rich~rd........Apr. 17, '39
Geddes, Stanley ............}une 16, '39

Alta Loma..........643
Sequoia ..............349

Long Beach .. 11
Oakland .......... 17

Haines, Ross .......: ........ Aug. 25, '38
Hardenbrook, Donald.... Nov. 8, '38
Heyman, Harold.......... Nov. 9, '39
Hill, Donald...............:.. Dec. 17, '39
Hopkins, Paul.............. Aug. 31, '35
Houtz, Lawrence.......... Feb. 9, '35
Hughes, Gene......:.........July 4, '41

Granada ..............608
Morning Star ...... 68
Point Loma........620
Sequoia ..............349
Santa Paula........291
Alhambra ..........322
Salinas ................204

Alhambra ........ 10
Stockton ........ 13
Ocean Beach .. 12
Oakland .......... 9
Santa Paula ....14
Alhambra ........ 16
.Salinas ........ .... 11

Tohnston, Calvin ..........J uly 1, '38
Johnston, Walter........ Sept. 4, '37

Lynwood ............600
Lynwood ............600

Lynwood ........ 10
Lynwood ........ 13

Klahr, Gerald................Apr. 27, '41
Kotsenburg, William.June 11, '40

Florence ..............649
La Mesa..............407

Los Angeles .. 13
La Mesa ..........11

Linfesty, Ralph .......... Nov. 27, '40
Lord, Richard ..............July 27, '29
Lundquist, Frederic ......June 29, '38

Ph~enix .............. 178
Golden W est..... .455
Mt. Diablo..........448

San Bern'do.... 8
San Francisco 17
Concord .......... 12

Mascaro, Ralph ............Feb. 19, '37
Mau, Charles ................June 17, '35
Miller, George.............. Nov. 3, '40
Mills, Kenneth .............:Nov. 17, '40
Monroe, Preston............Jan. 21, '31
Munro, Donald ............Aug. 21, '36

Granada ..............608
Mission ............... 169
Military Service.. 570
Live Oak.............. 61
Orland ...............~265
Alta Loma..........643

Alhambra .... .. 13
San Francisco 13
San Francisco 12
Oakland .......... 8
Orland ............17
Long Beach .. 14

Palmer, Kenneth ........ Aug. 10, '38
Palmer, Walter............ Aug. 10, '38
Parker, Clarence .......... Sept. 7, '36
Parker, Lowell ............ Sept. 5, '41
Parker, Ronald ............ Nov. 19, '39
Peterson, Kenneth ........July 22, '36
Pilz, Theodore.............. May 9, '41
Radford, Armand
Robert ......................Aug. 16, '41
Rogers, Gordon ............July 9, '35

Alex. G. Bell......595
Alex. G. Bell...... 595
Natoma .............. 64
Lamanda Park..627
Lamanda Park ..627
Argonne ............ 514
Alcatraz ..............244

Los Angeles .. 10
Los Angeles .. 12
Folsom City .. 16
Pasadena ........ 7
Pasadena ........ 10
San Francisco 16
Oakland .......... 8

America ..:... ......475
Valley Forge...... 587

Schelling, Eugene ........July 26, '39
Schoenfeld, Stanley...... May 19, '40

South Gate.......... 320
Olive Branch ......269

Los Angeles .. 13
Los Angeles .. 17
Los Angeles .. 9
Tulare ;.............12

250

PROCEEDI NG S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Smith, Arthur.._.........•..] an. 27, '39
Speziali, John ................June 26, '36
Sweeney, Eugene ..........July 17, '40

Lodge
No.
Presidio .......•......354
Hemet ................ 615
Sunnyside .......... 577

, Location Age
San Francisco"'i'7
Hemet ............ 15
Los Angeles .. 14

Van Kirk, Richard ...... Dec. 30, '34

Golden City........ 553

San Francisco 14

Wagnon, Frank. ........... Jan. 12, '35
Wagnon, Joseph ............] an. 12, '35
Wagnon, William ........Jan. 12, '35
Webb, William ..........Sept. 24, '41
Weston, Donald ............] an. 7, '40
Weston, Fred ................Jan. 7, '40
Weston, James .............. Jan. 7, '40
Whitman, Philip ..........July 1, '36
Wilson, William .......... Aug. 17, '38
Wimberly, Raymond .. Nov. 21, '37
Witherell, Frank. ......... Oct. 8, '39

Western Star...... 2
Wes tern Star...... 2
Western Star...... 2
Southern CaliL.278
Jno. D. Spreckels 657
Jno. D. Spreckels 657
]no. D. Spreckels 657
Hollywood ..........355
Alta Loma ..........643
Wilmington ...... 198
South Park ........ 563

Shasta ............ 13
Shasta ............ 16
Shasta ............ !$
Los Angeles .. 15
San Diego ...... 9
San Diego ......15
San Diego ...... 11
Hollywood .... 15
Long Beach .. 15
Wilmington .... 18
Los Angeles .. 16

Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home, July 31, 1942 .
Date Began
Sept. 1937
Sept.
1937
Aug.
1940
Feb.
1934
July,
1940
Sept. 1940
Sept.
1940
Aug.
1936
Aug.
1936
May,
1935
Sept.
1939
Feb.
1941
Feb.
1941

Name
l.odge
No.
Berger, Anna Mae .................... ..Ascot .............................. :....... 538
Berger, ] ack. ...............................Ascot ...................................... 538
Connery, Dean................................ Ramona .............. - :... - ............457
Doblough, Ruth ..........................Sunset .............................. :..... 352
Dyer, Vernon ............................ _Yorba Linda .....................,..469
Gross, David ................................ West Gate ............................ 335
Gross, Harry..............................•West Gate ······-····"··············335
Jones, Charles ..............................Blythe ................................... .473
Jones, Harry................................Blythe ................................... .473
Lasher, Edna................................San Pedro ..............................332
Stafford, Bernice ..........:...........-Rising Light ........................ 397
Tillmans, Benjamin ....................Palisa"des .................•.............. 637
Tillmans, Daniel... .......................Palisades ................................ 637

Admitted to Covina Home August 1, 1941-July 31, 1942
BOYS-5
Lodge
No.
Palos Verdes .... 389
Ocean Park ......369
Lamanda Park ..627

Location Age
Long Beach · .. 13
Ocean Park .. 11
Pasadena ........ 7

America ........... .475
Southern Calif... 278

Los Angeles .. 13
Los Angeles .. 15

Name
Admitted
Abrams, Samuel ]. ......Aug. 9, '41
Bibby, Frank .............. Dec. 20, '41
Parker, Lowell ............ Sept. 5, '41
Radford, Armand
Robert ...................... Aug. 16, '41
Webb, Wi_lliam .......... Sept. 24, '41

GIRLS-4
Name
Admitted
Abrams, Hildred ........June 12, '42
Anderson, Mary .......... Feb. 1, '42
Bibby, Cecilia .............. Dec. 20, '41
Burnham, Faye .......... June 22, '42

Lodge
No.
Palos Ver des ....389
Beverly Hills .... 528
Ocean Park ......369
Harding ............ 584

Location Age
Long Beach .... 10
Beverly Hills .. 14
Ocean Park .... 13
Los Angeles .. 5

251

Departed During the Year August 1, 1941-July 31, 1942
BOYS-22

Name ·
Lodge
No.
Baker, Kenneth ........Westlake ............392
Bowen, Robert ........ Arlington ......... .4i4
Brown, William .......Los Angeles ........ 42
Collins, AlberL .......Solano ................ 229
Collins, Laverne ...... Solano ................ 229
Davis, Robert ........... East San Diego .. 561
Hoey, William ......... Fruitvale ............ 336
Hopkins, Hugh ........Santa Paula ........ 291
Hopkins, Robert ...... Santa Paula........ 291
Houtz, Walter .........Alhambra .......... 322
Jones, Paul .............. .Orange Grove... .293
La Voie, William .....Phoenix .............. 178
Lord, Robert.. .......... Golden W est ..... .455
McLean, Norman ... Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Maxwell, Allan ....... Albert Pike ....... .484
Monroe, James ....~ ... Orland ................ 265
Munck, Theodore ...Hol!ywood ........355
Pearl, George ..........Alpha ................. .431
Robbins, Harlan .......Silver Gate .......... 296
Sachau, William ......Victory ............. .474
Walline, Cleon ........Winnedumah ... .287
Zahn, J erome .......... San Francisco ....360

Admitted
Aug. 3, '28
Oct. 2, '36
Dec. 8, '29
Mar. 22, '38
Mar. 22, '38
June 30, '37
Sept. 9, '40
Aug. 31, '35
Aug. 31, '35
Feb. 9, '35
July '29, '34
Feb. 22, '38
July 27, '29
Jan. 20, '32
Mar. 4, '32
Jan. 21, '31
Dec. 2, '39
Sept. 11, '38
July 1, '38
June 18, '35
Jan. 31, '30
Oct. 26, '33

. Age
When
DisDeparted charged
June 14, '42 17
Aug. 21, '41
11
June 12, '42 18
Jan. 24, '42 17
Jan. 24, '42 14
June 13, '42 17
June 11,'42 15
Aug. 7, '41 13
Aug. 7, '41 12
June 13, '42 17
] a:n. 23, '42 17
Jan. 23, '42 18
Oct. 14, '41 18
May 31, '42 17
May 31, '42 19
June 12, '42 18
Aug. 25, '41
15
May 31, '42 16
Nov. 30, '41
9
Aug. 18, '41 18
June 20, '42 18
June 15, '42 18

GIRLS-7

•. Name
Lodge
N o.
Anderson, Mary .... Beverly Hills .... 528
Atamian, Maxine ... Arlington ..........414
Bayer, Carol... .......... Palestine ............ 351
Bowen, Olive .......... Arlington ......... .414
Parbery, Alice......... Excelsior ............ 166
Speziali. Thelma.....Hemet ................615
Wall, Eleanor ...........Monrovia ............ 308

Admitted
Feb. 1, '42
Sept. 10, '34
Dec. 17, '23
Oct. 2, '36
Mar. 26,' 31
June 26, '36
5, '32
Apr.

Age
When
DlsDeparted charged
Mar. 1, '42 14
June 12, '42 18
June 12, '42 18
Aug. 21, '41 14
June 12, '42 18
Jan. 17, '42 17
Jan. 15, '42 17

Donations to Masonic Home at Covina
.
Alexander !familton Lodge No. 535-$11.00 for Treat Fund, 1 lot
ice cream, cookies, candy, assorted groceries, 58 cans fruit and vegetables.
Apffel Company, Edward A.-30 pounds coffee, 10 pounds Nestle's
food.
•
Ascot Chapter, Auxiliary No. 437-1 lot dish towels.
Azusa Chapter, 0 . E. S.-1 lot home-made candy.
Beauceant Social Order No. 44--5 cans food.
Bell Lodge No. 483-$11.00 toward fund for refurnishing living room
in Senior Girls' Building.
.

253

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509-1 lot jams and jellies.
Bennett, Herman E .-1 lot household goods.
Bettina Chapter No. 339, 0 . E . S.-$6.00 for jams and jellies.
Borzage, Frank--$500.00.
Bounds, Wallace-46 cents for Treat Fund.
Bullock's Department Store-2 scooter wagons; 2 table games.
Cairns, J. I.-125 airplane pictures.
Camp Fire Girls, Los Angeles Council-1 lot doughnuts.
Composite Lodge No. 639--1 lot jams and jellies; 1 lot ice cream
bars.
1
Coachella Lodge No. 476-2 boxes dates.
Corona Lodge No. 324-2 chairs for Room 6,. Senior Girls' Building.
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559-1 lot books, jams and jellies.
Custer and Chrisiansen--Ambulance service without charge whenever
needed throughout the year.
DeMolay Chapter, Huntington Park-15 dance records.
DeMolay Chapter, Whittier-SO pounds barbecued beef.
Dolly Madison Cakes-52 pounds Christmas cakes.
Drew Carriage Company-! lot Christmas toys.
Eagler, F. G.-1 lot handmade doll furniture.
Eighty-seventh District Officers' Association-$100.00 for furnishing
Frank Wise Memorial Room, Intermediate·· Boys' Building.
Ellis, Mrs. Andrew-1 lot radios, miCTophones, engineering books,
magazines; 2 lots radio parts.
Erviera Club-1 handmade quilt.
Esther Chapter No. 74, 0 . E. S.-1 lot Christmas toys ..
Fairview Lodge No. 629-1 lot jams and jellies.
Florence Lodge No. 649_:_$1.25 for Treat Fund; assorted jams
and jellies.
Ganther, Charles-1 lot persimmons . .
Gardens Lodge No. 621-$10.00 toward living room furniture for
Senior Girls' Building.
General Foods Sales Co.-156 cases breakfast cereals.
Glassell Park Lodge No. 605-1 lot jams and jellies.
Goodrich, Ben-1 lot pictures of aeroplanes.
Greenleaf Lodge No. 670-$11.70 toward fund for refurnishing
living room in Senior Girls' Build_ing.
Gross, Leonard-$1.00 for Treat Fund. ·
Guardian Lodge No. 596-$1.00 for Treat Fund; 1 lot assorted
jams and jellies.
Gunther, H. W.-2 b.o oks bound funny papers.
Harris, S. Fred-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662-1 lot jam and honey.
Heyman, A. V. (Bellflower Lodge No. 523)-$6.00 for Treat Fund.
Hokanson, W. 0 .-1 year's subscription to Life Magazine.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319- 204 half-gallon jars canned peaches; 1
lot assorted jams, jellies and honey.

Hunter, Ian-$50.00.
Hurst, Mrs. H . M.-21h sacks cucumbers.
Huycke, Charles S.-2 boxes canned goods.
Ivich, Ruby F.-50 individual mirrors for ladies' purses.
James, Mrs. W. H.-1 handmade quilt.
James Madison Lodge No. 572-1 lot ice cream, assorted jams and
jellies, and canned goods.
Job's Daughtes, Bethel No. 57, Wilmington-$10.00 fpr the purchase
of victrola records of· classical music.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 58-1 lot assorted jams and jellies,
crayons and paints.
Job's Daughters, Beth~!. No. 77-1 lot books, magazines,· jams and
jellies.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 99-1 lot jams and jellies.
Job's Daughters, Huntington Park Bethel-1 lot ice cream and cake.
Job's Daughters, Huntington Park Mothers' Club-1 gas stove, 1 combination electric waffle iron and toaster.
·
Johnson, George L.-1 lot magazines.
Jones, Elliott M.-1 lot books.
Jordan Lodge No. 654-$1.00 for Treat Fund; 1 lot assorted jams
and jellies.
Jordt, Mr. and Mrs. Fred-6 year file National Geographic Magazines.
La Vezzi, Mr.-2 boxes sweet potatoes.
Lankershim Chapter No. 403, 0. E. S.-1 lot home-made cookies
and jellies.
Leavitt, Dr.-1 lot books, 1 large dictionary.
Le Lansky, Dr. and Mrs. Ross-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
Lexington Chapter No. 172, 0. E. s.-1 lot dresser scarfs and table
cloths.
Los Angeles Soap Company-2 cases soap.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600-90 pounds candy; 1 lot assorted jams
and jellies.
·
Matrons of 1938, 0 . E . S., South Gate-2 handmade quilts.
McConnell, John R.-1 lot books and toys.
MacM urray, Frederick-$500.00.
Manchester Lodge No. 585-2 lots jams and jellies; $2.00 for Treat
Fund.
Martinez Lodge No. 41-1 lot Christmas toys.
Mary-Gold Association of the 0. E. ~.-10 vanity sets; 27 dresser
scarfs.
Masonic Library of Southern California-! lot books; 1 lot juvenile
books.
Matrons' and Patrons' Association of 1942-$160.00 for lathe and
equipment for a blind graduate of the Home.
Midway Square and Compass Club-$116.00.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-1 lot assorted candy, chewing gum, assorted jams and jellies, tomato juice, 1 football.

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Montebello Lodge No. 45I-$Il.70 toward fund for refurnishing
living room in Senior Girl's Building.
Moore, Carrie, Mae, and Mon-2 books of pictures "See Your West."
Neagle, George-I gold watch, prize for "Good Citizenship."
Nevada California Electric Corp., with 0. B. Ormiston-I box
sample greeting cards.
Oroville Lodge No. 10-5 gallons olives.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-I lot books, toys and games; I lot magazines, tennis balls, jellies; 2 lots popcorn.
Past Matrons' and Patrons' Assn., Coachella Valley Chapter No. 360,
0. E. S.-1 lot jam.
Patton, Mrs. C. G.-I box girls' clothing.
Fentalpha Chapter No. 339, 0. E. S.-I lot jam.
Peters, Carl F.-24 cases candy bars.
Peterson's Bakery-I lot coffee cake, 6 dozen sweet rolls.
Pomona Chapter No. 110, 0. E. S.-I lot jams and jellies.
Poteet, Lee-$I5.00 work of work on kayaks.
Pye, Mrs. A. W.-2 boxes blankets, pillows, curtains, clothing, and
notions.
Radford, C. R. (Pasadena Lodge No. 272)-I lot magazines; I lot
jig-saw puzzles.
Rainbow Girls, Newman Assembly-8 dresser scarfs.
Rainbow Girls, Rio Vista-I lot scrap books; I lot Victrola records.
Rainbow Girls, Willows-I lot jam.
Redondo Lodge No. 323-I lot jams and jellies.
Rice, Mrs. A. V.-I lot handmade pot-holders.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397-I case canned peaches.
Rex Transfer Company-.Free delivery I lot donated articles.
Rondebush, Mr. and Mrs. Myron E.-I lot children's games.
Rose, Louis-I lot assorted jams and jellies.
Roos, Bo C-$25.00.
Royal Arch Masons, Chapter No. 20-5 gallons olives.
San Pasqual Lodge No .. 452-I lot furniture and I set Venetian
blinds for furnishing Room No. I, Senior Girls' Building; $75.00 for
purchase of graduation rings for current year graduates.
Schissler, Mrs.-I box avocados.
Shoemaker, Mr. and Mrs. 0. H.-I lot groceries.
Simmons, Mr.-I lot bathing suits.
Skelton, Edna-$200.0'0.
South Park Lodge No. 563-I lot popcorn.
Southland Chapter, 0. E. S.-I lot assorted jams and jellies.
Stevens, E. 0.-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Stoddard, Bert (Corona Lodge No. 324)-300 pounds peanuts.
Stoltz, Robert C.-$I6.67.
Sun Garden Lodge No. 530-200 pounds seeqless raisins.
Sunset Lodge No. 352--I lot jams, jellies, and canned fruit.

Temple City Chapter No. 448, 0. E. S.-$10.00 worth of sanitary
work.

254

255

Temple City Lodge No. 6I2-$10.00 worth of sanitary work.
Terminal Refrigerating Company-I case eggs.
Tice, Mrs.-2 crates squash, I crate onions.
Tritman, Mr.-125 packages fruits, dates and nuts.
Twinklers Club, Siloam Chapter No. 406, 0. E. S.-I lot assorted
jams and jellies.
U. S. Rubber Worker's Union No. 44--I lot Christmas stockings
filled with candy, nuts, etc.
·
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329-I lot French pastry and books.
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587-I lot jams and jellies.
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515-I lot jams and jellies.
Walker, Mrs. F. R.-1 lot baked beans.
Weber's Bakery-360 loaves bread.
Weismuller, Johnny-$50.00.
Wells, L. E .-I venison.
West, Robert-I gold watch, prize for "Good Citizenship."
\Vesterners' Club-$1.50 Christmas gift to each child in the Home.
.. Whittier . Lodge No. 323-$22.40 toward fund for refurnishing
bymg room m Senior Girls' Building.
,
Wiggs, Mrs. Florence and Mrs. Minnie Enge-I lot Christmas
dolls.
Wood Publishing Company-I lot books.
Woodland, Henry L.-I lot marshmallows.
Yacht, B. B.-I lot candy and popcorn.
York Lodge No. 423-$I5.00 toward Treat Fund· I lot jellies, jams,
cookies, I sack rolled oats; 1 lot athletic goods.
'
Contributions to Entertainment Fund, Christmas 1941, Covina Home
Lodge
No. Amt.
Acacia ................................438 $ 5.00
Aco\n ..................................494 10.0D
A. F. E. Irwin ....................645
5.00
Alameda ........................... .167
5.00
Alamo ............ ,.................... .122
5.00
Albert Pike ........................ 484
5.00
Alexander Graham Bell..595 10.00
Alexandria ........................ 531
2.SO
Alisa! .................................. 32I
5.00
All States .......................... 593
10.00
Alta Loma ..........................643
10.()0
Amador .............................. 65
5.00
Amity ..................................370 10.00
Antioch ..............................175
5.00
Arcata .:............................. .106
5.00
Argonne ........ ,................... 5I4 10.00
Argonaut ............................46I
10.00
Artesia ................................377
5.00
Ashlar ................................ 306
5.00

Lodge
No.
Athens .•.,. ........................... .228
Azusa ..........: .......................305
Bakersfield ........................224
Balder ................................393
Bay City............................526
Bay View............................401
Bear Mountain ................ 76
Bell .................................... 483
Bellflower ....... ..: ................. 523
Berkeley ............................363
Blackmer ..........................442
Blythe ............................... .473
Brawley .............................. 402
Brooklyn ............................225
Buckeye ........................... .195
Burlingame ......... :.............. 400
Cahuenga ..........................513
Calaveras ............................ 78
Caledonia ............................ 486

Amt.
5.00
5.00
12.50
12.50
10.0U
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.15
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
5.00

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No. Amt. .
5.00
·calexico .............................-412
California .......................... 1 20.00
5.00
Callayomi ..........................282
14.50
Canoga ................, ...............611
Capital City ..................... .499 10.00
5.00
Carmel _, ..........................._.680
Carquinez ..........................337 10.00
5.45
Charity .............................. 362
Charter Rock ...................A10 10.00
10.00
Chico ......... _........:..............111
10.00
Clay ..................................... 101
5.00
Clear Lake ........................ 183
Coalinga ............................ 387 50.00
5.00
Compass ..............................590
5.00
Concord ..............................117
Corinthian .......................... 9 10.00
Corona ............:...................324 10.00
5.00
Coronado ..........................441
5.00
Covenant ............................527
5.00
Crescent .............................. 45
.Crockett .....;........................ 139 10.00
5.00
Culver City ......................467
2.50
Cupertino ..........................510
5.00
Curtis ...................:..............140
5.00
Damascus ..........................648
5.00
Delta ....................................471
5.00
Dimond ..............................603
Dinuba ................................385 10.00
Doric ..................................216 12.50
2.50
Dos Palos ..........................681
5.00
10.00
5.00
Durant ................................268
5.00
· East Bay ........................... .489
East Gate ..........................290 25.00
5.00
East San Diego ..................561
5.00
Eden .....................................113
5.00
El Cajon ..........:..................576
El Centro ...........................384 10.00
5.00
El Dorado .......................... 26
2.50
Elmhurst ............................610
El Segundo .............:..........507 10.00
5.00
Elsinor ............................... .289
Elysian .....................:.......... 418 15.00
5.00
Enterprise .......................... 70
1.25
Eureka ................................ 16
EverR"reen ..........................259· 12.50
Excelsior ............................ lli6 12.50
Fairmount .....'...................:.435 10.00
5.00
Fallbrook ..........................317
5.00
Ferndale ............................ 193
Fillmore ..............................379 10.00
5.00
Fort Crook ........................575
5.00
Francis Drake ..................376
5.00
Franklin ............................143
13.00
Fremont ......................:...... .497

g~::~~i;···:::::::::::::::~::::::::::~~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No. Amt.
Fresno ................................247
12.50
Friendship .........................210 10.00
Fruitvale ........................,...336
5.00
Galt ........................,..........267 , 5.0ll
George Washington ...... 525
5.CO
Golden Gate ...................... 30 12.50
Golden Rule ......................479
5.00
5.00
Gold rlill ............................ 32
Granada ..............................608 15.00
Guardian ............................596
2.50
hammonton ......................433 25.0U
Hanford ..............................279 10.00
Hawaiian ......:..................... 21
25.00
10.(JO
Hemet ................................615
Henry Clay ........................ 95
2.50
Henry Knox ...~ ........:.......662
5.00
Henry S. Orme · .:.......... ..458
5.00
Hermann ............................127 25.00
Hesperian .......................... 264 · 10.00
Highland Park ................382
5.00
Hills Ferry ......................236
5.00
Hiram ................................ 43
5.00
Hollenbeck ........................319
10.00
Hollywood ........................355
7.00
Holtville ............................425
5.00
Honolulu ............................409 25.00
Howard .............................. 37 10.00
2.50
Humboldt .......................... 79
Illinoistown ........................ 51
5.00
Indian Rock ....................638
5.00
Ione ....................................... 80
2.50
Jewel ..................................374
2.50
Jonathan ............................545
2.50

.

~:~~~e .".:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~ 2~:~~
Kaweah ..............................665
Keith ...............:................. .187
King David's ....................209
I:;a Brea ..............................650
Lafayette ............................. 126
La Jolla ............................518
Lakeshore .......................... 551
Landmark ..........................253
La Parfaite Union ............ 17
Las Palmas ......................366
Laurel ................................245
Le Progres de l'Oceanie ..371
Lexington ..........................104
Libertas ......................;.......466
Liberty ................................299
Lindsav ..............................416
Live Oak ................,......... 61
Lodi ....................................256
Lompoc ..............................26?,
Loni!' Beach ......................327
Los Angeles ...................... 42

5.00
5.00
5.CO
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5 00
2.50
5.00
5.00
15.00
32.W
.~ .00

10.00
27.50
35.10
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Los Gatos ..........................292
Madera ..............................2d0
Madison .............................. 23
Malta ..................................661
Maricopa ............................434
Marin ..........;..................... 191
Mariposa ............................ 24
Martinez ............................ 41
McKinley ..........................347
Mendocino ..........................179
Meridian ..;.........................667
Midway ..............................426
Mill Valley .........................356
Mission .............................. 169
Mizpah ................................378
Modesto .............:................675
Molino ................................ 150
Mon:erey ...........................217
Morgan Hill ......................463
Mosaic ................................218
Mount Diablo ..................448
Mount Moriah .................. 44
Mount Oso ........................ 460
Mountain View ............... .194
Natoma .............................. 64
\ 'a val ................................ 87
Needles .............................326
Neptune ..............................619
Nevada City ....... _............. 13
Nicolaus :........,.................. 129
Norwalk ............................315
Oak Grove ........................ 215
Oakland ..............................188
Ocean Park ......................369
Occidental .......................... 22
Olive Branch ....................269
Orange Grove ..................293
Oriental .............,................ 144
Orland ............,...................265
Oxnard ..............................341
Pacific Grove ....................331
Pajaro ................................ 110
Palestine ............................351
Palisades ..........................637
Palos Verdes ....................389
Park .................................... 449
Parnassus ..........................388
Pasadena ............................272
Paso Robles ......................286
Patterson ............................ 488
Paul Revere ..................... .46~
Penrhyn ..............................258
Perris ..................................411
Petaluma ............................180
Phoenix .............................. 178
Piedmont ............................521

Amt.
10.00

s.ou

5.00
5.00
5.00
1~.50

10.0U
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25,00
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
7.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5 00
5.00
2..'iO
10.CO
15.00

Lodge
No.
Pinole ................................353
.r1t.sut.1rg ...........................'.4~
.t'lumas .............................. 60
.t'oinsettia ..........................633
.t'oint ....................................503
Point Firmin ....................558
.1:-'omona ..............................246
Provident ..........................609
Redondo ..............................328
Redwood City .................. 168
kichmond ..........................375
Rio Vista .......................:...208
H.ising l.,ight ......................397
Riverside ............................635
kockridge ..........................468
Roosevelt ............................ 500
Roseville ............................222
Russian River .................... 181
Sacramento ........................ 40
San Benito ........................211
San Bernardino ................348
San Diego .......................... 35
San Fernando ....................,343
San Francisco ..................360
San Gabriel ........................ 546
San Gorgonio .....'...............668
San Jacinto ........................338
San Jose ............................ 10
San Mateo ........................226
San Pedro ..........................332
San Simeon ........................196
Santa Ana ..........................241
' San'.a Barbara ..................192
Santa Cruz ........................ 38
Santa Maria ......................580
Santa Monica ....................307
Santa Rosa ........................ 57
Seaport ..............................550
Seaside .............:..................504
Security .............................. 581
Selma ..................................277
Semper Virens ..................552
Sequoia ...............................349
Service .........................,...... 594
Sierra Madre ....................408
Silver Gate ........................296
S.ilver Trowel ....................415
Sincerity ........................... .132
Southern California ........ 278
South Gate ........................320
South Pasadena ................367
So. San Francisco............212
Southwest ..........................283
Speranza Italiana ............219
S'andard ............................440
Stanislaus .........................206

257.

Amt.
5.00
2.50
~.!>U

10.0U
2.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.UO
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
.5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.(,0
10.00
12.50
5.00
10.CO
5.00
5.00
10.00
·5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
5.GO
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10:00

2S8

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No. Amt.
5.00
St. Helena .......................... 93
Starr King :.......................344 12.50
5.00
Suisun ................................ SS
5.00
Sunnyvale :................:........ Sl 1
5.00
S. W. Hackett....................S74
5.00
Table Mountain ................124
5.00
Taft ...................,................. S16
7.50
Tehachapi ..........................313
Tehama .............................. 3 10.00
10.00
Temblor ..............................477
7.00
Temescal ............................ 314
Temple ................................ 14 10.00
2.SO
Texas .................................. 46
25.00
The Gardens ......................621
5.00
Thousand Oaks ................478
5.00
T orrance ..;.........................447
3.45
Triangle ..............................S48
S.00
Trinity ................................ 27
5.00
Truckee ..............................200
7.SO
Tuolumne .......................... 8
Tuscan ..............................:.261 10.00
Union .................................. S8 12.50
S.00
Unity ..................................368
U niversity ..........................394 47.00
5.00
Vacaville ............................ 134
10.00
Vallejo ................................487
2.SO
Veritas ...... :.........................640
5.00
Vesper ................................ 84
5.00
Victorville ..........................634
Visalia ................................128 10.00
10.00
Washington ...................... 20
S.00
Western Star ..................... 2
10.00
Wes t Gate ..........................335
10.00
White Pine ........................555
2.50
Willow Glen ......................676
5.00
Wilmington ........................198
10.00
Winnedumah ....................287
2.SO
Woodbridge ......................131
5.00
Woodland ..........................1S6
5.00
Woodstock ........................491
5.00
Y erba Buena ....c.•••.....••••••.•403
2.50
Yolo .................................... 81
5.00 .
Yosemite ............................ 99

Amt.
70th and 71st District Officers'
Association ..............................$12.50
87th District Officers'
Association .............................. 42.SO
88t)1 District Officers'
Association ............................:. 15.00
93rd District Officers'
Association .............................. 10.60
lOlst District Officers'
Association ...................: .......... 39.42

Amt.
Santa Clara Valley Officers'
Association .............................. 2.50

Lodges of Perfection
Lodge
No. Amt.
$12.SO
California A . & A. S. R. ..
Oakland Bodies
2S.OO
A. & A. S. R. ....................
Peninsula Bodies
10.00
A. & A. S. R...................
Sacramento Bodies
12.SO
A. & A. S. R...................
San Francisco ...................... 1 12.50
Councils, R. & S. M.
Counc1l
No. Amt.
California ............................ 2 $ 2.so
2.SO
King S olomon's ..................29
5.00
Pasadena ............................. .16
s..00
Pomona ..............................21
S.00
2.SO
__

~~ft~ou ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~i
Chapters, R. A. :M.

Chapter
No. Am:.
Chico .................................. 42 10.00
5.00
Coalinga ............................114
5.00
Crown ................................ 72
S.00
Dixon .................................. 48
2.SO
Donner .............................. 39
5.00
Doric .................................. 66
5.00
El Centro ..........................109
S.00
Ferndale ............................ 78
2.SO
Grass Valley ...................... 18
Hanford :............................ 74 25.00
5.00
Howard .............................. 14
10.00
Inglewood ..........................131
5.00
Keystone ...........:................ S6
5.00
Marin .........:........................ 102
S.00
Martinez ............................ 31
2.50
Mill Valley ........................ 108
2.SO
Nevada .............................. 6
2.SO
Ontario ..............................105
1.2S
Petaluma ............................ 22
5.00
Pomona .............................. 76
13.SO
Redondo ..............................101
5.00
San Francisco.................... 1
2.50
San Luis .........................._. 62
2.SO
Santa Cruz ..................:..... 38
2.SO
Santa Monica Bay............ 97
S.00
Searchlight ........................133
5.00
Siloam ................................ 37
5.00
South Pasadena ................112
S.00
St. Helena:.......................... 63

Chapter
No.
Sutter' .................................. 11
Temple ................................ 41
Washington ...................... 13
Wilmington ........................141
Woodland .......................... 46

Amt.

Amt.

2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
S.00

Bethel No. 13, Job's Daughters 5.00
.t'acillc Assembly Order of
Rainbow .................................. 2.85
Santa Monica Bay Pyramid
No. 47 ...................................... 14.00
Superior Sacramento Valley Division Order of DeMolay.... 46.00
Columbia Acacia Club.............. 5.00
Baker, J . E................................... 5.00
Bodourian, Mike ........................ 1.50
Bradshaw, Charles .................. 2.50
Bredell, Elwood ........................ 2S.OO
Brewster, L. B .........................., 5.00
Denser, Mr. and Mrs. Al.......... 1.00
Dutra, Joseph C ........................... 20.00
Edick, C. ri................................. 2.00
Feher, Alex ..................:............. 2.50
Fleming, Howard F................... 8.00
Fleming, 0. G............................. 8.00
Fosbery, Mrs. W . F................... S.00
Guleserian, Puzant .................... 2.50
Gunn, Wm. J............................... 5.00
Hil7.inger, Henry ........................ 1.00
Holcomb, R. G............................. 2.50
Hummel, W. £........................... 1.00
Kertell, Wm. .............................. 2.50
Kurlander, Mrs. Pauline.......... 3.00
Labes, Jack .................................. 2.80
Marlin, Lloyd F......................... 5.00
Merwin, John W ......................... 2.00
Metcalf, Margaret S................. 5.00
Morneau, Wm. W ....................... 8.00
National Federated Craft No. 2 10.00
Northrop, M . E. ......................... 10.00
Nutter, H. M ............................... 12.50
O'Reilly, John ............................ 4.00
P edersen , Karl E. and Mabel 12.50
Peters, E . M................................. 2.00
Piggly Wiggly of San Diego,
Inc............................................. 10.00
Pontious, H. R. ............................ 20.00
Smallwood, Claude .................... 5.00
Stevenson, E. H ......................... lS.00
Stocker, Leslie W....................... 5.00
Stoll, G. A ................................... 10.00
Stoltz, Robert C.;........:.............. 2.06
Thaxter, Earl .............................. 5.00
The Westerners ..·......................207.00
Twohig, Jam es .......................... 2.00
Vuillot, Jacob E .......:.c............... 2.00
Whipple, Carl .............................. 10.00
Wilshire Oil Co., Inc................. 1.00
Wilshire Social Club., ................ 10.00

Commanderies

Commandcry
No. Amt.
5.00
Bakersfield ........................ 39
California .......................... 1 12.50
S.00
Calvary .............................. 62
S.00
Eureka ................................. 35
2.50
Fresno ................................ 29
5.00
Golden West ...................... 43
Hollywood .......................... 56 10.00
S.00
Marysville .......................... 7
l.2S
Mount Olivet .................... 20
S.00
Mount Shasta .................... 32
S.00
Naval .................................. 19
2.50
Nevada .: ..........·.................. 6
Oroville .............................. S 10.00
S.00
Pasadena ............................ 31
5.00
Red Bluff .......................... 17
5.00
Sacramento ........................ 2
S.00
San Jose ............................ 10
2.SO
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
2.50
San Pedro .......................... 60
2.50
Santa Cruz ........................ 44
2.50
Santa Monica Bay............ 61
S.00
Southern California ........ 37
5.00
St. Bernard ...................... 23
S.00
Ukiah .................................. 33
5.00
Vacaville ............................ 38
S.00
Ventura ............'.................. 18
S.00
Watsonville ........................ 22
S.00
Woodland .......................... 21
Chapters, O. E. S.

Chapters
N o.
Atascadero ........................344
I one .................'................... 283
Mercedes ............................ 126
Mill Valley .........:............219
Miquelito ............................ 176
Mira Monte ...................... 141
San Rafael ......;.................21S
Santa Clara ........................105
Siloam ................................406

259

Amt.
S.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

:Miscellaneous

Amt.
Past Matron's Ass'n. of
Bakersfield ..............................$ 5.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

260

Entertainments
August, 1941:
23-Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380-Annual picnic at Huntington
Beach, with games and sports for children.
October, 1941:
12-American Legion Post No. 563. Twentieth Century Fox Studio-Entertained fifty boys and girls at baseball game at Gilmore Field,
in Los Angeles.

23-Pasadena Lodge No. 272.
Gardena Lodge No. 372.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202.
30-Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 77.
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329.
December, 1941 :
7-Job's Daughters Bethel No. 44, Mothers' Club.
January, 1942:
26-1938 Matrons, 0. E . S., La Crescenta.

December, 1941:
22-Monrovia Lodge No. 308--Annual Christmas party.
26--Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 furnished orchestra for a dance at
the Home.

February, 1942:

January, 1942:
17-Dr. Amandeus Zoellner, violinist, and Mrs. Opal Rose, pianist, gave
concert numbers for music students.
.

March, 1942:

.

April, 1942:
15-Fire Chief Freeman, of Covina Fire Department, demonstrated
fighting incendiary bombs, showed fire company films, 'a lso films of
western scenery.
.
19-Hollywood American Legion Post Band furnished a concert.
26--Henry Knox Lodge No. 662 furnished an hour of fine entertainment.
24--Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 furnished two accordionists to play
during dinner at the Home.
Visitations to Covina Home
August, 1941:
8--Job's Daughters, Huntington Park Bethel.
September, 1941:
14--Composite Lodge No. 639.
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528.
Redondo Lodge No. 328.
28-Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509.
October, 1941:
5-Eighty-sixth Masonic District, six Lodges.
12-Vultee Masonic Club.
19-Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 99.
26--Fa'irview Lodge No. 629.
November, 1941 :
9-Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587.
Manchester Lodge No. 585.
16--Craftsmen Lodge No. 559.
Clarence F . Smith Lodge No. 482.
Santa Monica Bay District Officers Assn. Breakfast.

6--Job's Daughters, Huntington Park Bethel Mothers' Club.
15- Mount Olive Lodge No. 506.
'
24--1938 Matrons, 0 . E. S., La Crescenta.
.10-1938 Matrons, 0. E . S., La Crescenta.
April, 1942:
14--Lankershim Chapter No. 403, O. E . S.
19-Si!ver Trowel Lodge No. 415.
23-Temple City Chapter, 0. E. S.
26--Henry Knox Lodge No. 662.
May, 1942:
3-Guardian Lodge No. 596.
Jordan Lodge No. 654.
Florence Lodge No. 649.
York Lodge No. 423.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397.
Job's Daughters, South Gate Bethel.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355.
Cahuenga Lodge No. 513.
17-Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600.
Job's Daug.hters, Bethel No. 58.
Southland Chapter, 0. E. S.
24--Ashlar Lodge No. 306.
Moneta Lodge No. 405.
South Park Lodge No. 563.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296.
31-South Gate Lodge No. 320.
June, 1942:
21-Altadena Lodge No. 678.
James Madison Lodge No. 572.
July, 1942:
9-Glen Chapter, 0. E. S.
12-Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535.
.19-Manchester Lodge No. 585.
26--Twinklers, Siloam Ch.a pter No. 406, u. F. . s.

261"

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The report was adopted except that portion dealing with
finance, which was referred to the Finance Committee.
The Grand Master called upon Most Worshipful Clarence
E. Phillips, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon, who
in addition to expr~~sing his appreciation of the courtesies extended to him, conveyed the greetings of the officers and members of his Grand Lodge and presented to the Grand Master a
gavel made of myrtle wood, as a gift from the brethren of
Oregon.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCING
BUILDING PROJECTS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Financing Building Projects reports the following
as a short outline of its activities for the year ending September 30, 1942.
Due to the exigencies of life and the demands of the nation for officers to
carry to a successful conclusion the war in which we now find ourselves
involved, this report is being presented by the only member of. the committee that is present at this session; the chairman of the com_m1ttee, ~ast
Grand Master Filmer, having not sufficiently recovered from his long siege
of illness to 'warrant his presence at this communication, and the other
member of the committee, Worshipful Brother Herbert C. Goldman, being
now in training at Miami Beach, FJorida, having been commissioned as a
captain in the Army.
•
It is thought that a review of the circumstances under which the
committee was originally organized would be of interest and would conduce to a better understanding of the activities of the committee, and
therefore, the indulgence of Grand Lodge and of the Grand Master is
asked, that .the following brief outline may be given:
The committee was originally authorized by Grand Lodge in 1928.
For a number of years prior to this date it had been recognized by a
number in Grand Lodge, and .particularly by members of the Committee
on Finance due to the number of Temple problems being presented each
year to th~t committee, that there was a genuine need for a co~mittee
to properly supervise the building of new Temples, but no action had
previously been taken by Grand Lodge, owing to a fear that it might
seem Grand Lodge was usurping some of the prerogatives of the constituent Lodges. However, the pressure on the . Committee on Finance to
advise on Temples that were in trouble throughout the st~te became so
great, that in 1928 the chairman of the Committee on Finance at that time,
\Vorshipful Brother Wm. P. Jeffries, concluded that he would have presented to Grand Lodge legislation authorizing such a committee and after
consultation with the chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, Past
Grand Master Weller; and the chairman of the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes, Past Grand Master Hervey, legislation was prepared,
prese.nted and adopted, setting up a committee of t?ree, composed of, ~s
ex-officio members, the Grand Treasurer and the chairman of the Comrn1ttee on Finance and one other member to be selected by the Grand Master.
This made Past Grand Master Filmer (as Grand Treasurer) and Brother
Jeffries (as chairman of the Committee on Finance), members of the committee, and Brother Robert Greig of Berkeley was appointed by the Gr.and
Master as the third member.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.·263

Brother Jeffries was selected as chairman and in such capacity acted
up to the time of his death in 1935. Due to Brother Jeffries' devotion to
Masonry and outstanding ability as a financier and also as one who was
thoroughly acquainted with building problems, the work of the committee
was given a high standing from its very beginning and was at the time
and has been since of inestimable benefit .to Masonry.
In 1933 Brother Herbert C. Goldman of Long Beach, due to the outstanding work which he had done on behalf of Grand Lodge 'in surveying
and reporting on the damage done to Masonic Temples in and near Long
Beach in an earthquake earlier in the year, was recommended by Brother
Jeffries to the Grand Master for appointment on the committee and has
served in such capacity up to the present time.
Upon the death of Brother Jeffries in 1935, the compiler of this report
was selected as chairman of the Committee on Finance and thereby became,
ex-officio, a member of the Committee on Financing Building Projects. Past
Grand Master Filmer was selected to succeed Brother Jeffries as chairman,
has been continued as such and holds the chairmanship at the present
time. However, due to Most Worshipful Brother Filmer contracting pneumonia in the early part of March, 1941, and his need to be relieved of all
work, the brother who now stands before you was requested by Brother
Filmer to carry on the activities of the committee until he was again able
to assume the responsibility. It was hoped at the time that the need for
any other hand at the helm of the committee, other than that of the ablt:
hand of Brother Filmer, would be of very brief duration. Unfortunately,
to many the heart has been made sick with anguish because· of the hope
so long deferred.
While Brother Filmer has been, a number of times, well on the road
to recovery and yet, true to the oft repeated saying that "disasters come
not singly," he has time and again suffered relapses. His courage and
fortitude through it all have been remarkable indeed, but his recovery has
not yet been sufficienly complete to warrant attempting to be present at
this session. I am very sure, however, that he is with us in spirit and that
his interest in and devotion to the Grand Lodge of California have not
been dimmed. I am sure I express the sentiment of not only this Grand
Lodge, but of all Masons throughout California, when I say the he.art of
Masonry goes out to our beloved brother in his trial and our earnest
prayers are tllat his full recovery will not be much longer deferred.
The other member of the committee, Brother H. C. Goldman, has
shown a great devotion to his duty and is indeed entitled to the thanks
of this Grand Lodge for the work he has done on this committee. At all
times he has been ready to travel to any part of the state, at his own
expense, to do whatever might be required of him to properly attend to
the problems presented to the committee and at each session of Grand
Lodge heretofore has been present and without receiving travel pay, as
the Committee on Financing Building Projects being a special committee
the members thereof are not entitled thereto. Herb wa.s always proud that
he had the opportunity to do this service for Masonry, without receiving
any reimbursement of expenses. From the year 1935 up to this year he
always compiled and presented the report of this committee. On August
31st he was notified he had been commissioned as a captain in our Armed
Forces. Never have I seen anyone so overjoyed as Herb was when he
received this news. As previously expressed, he is at the present time at
Miami Beach attending a school of instruction.
Other members of the Committee on Financing Building Projects
have traveled on business of the committee. It is to be noted that no

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

request for return of any expense has ever been asked by any member
and that the· entire activity of the committee has been carried on without
any expense to Grand Lodge.
While the work of the committee this past year has not been as extensive as it has been in other preceding years and yet it has been considerable, as probably can be understood by the file of correspondence which I
have in my hand. The work has been tremendously interesting. The closer
touch one has with the various problems of the Temples throughout the
state the more it is borne in upon one what a splendid opportunity is presented for real service to the ·craft by suitable and able handling of these
problems. Nor need there be any fear that the subordinate Lodges bear
any resentment or harbor any feeling that Grand Lodge is usurping prerogatives in attempting to review and supervise Masonic building activities.
In every instance the help of the committee has been eagerly sought and
gladly followed.
It has always been the purpose of the committee to review the problem from the Lodge standpoint and attempt to be helpful in an every day
practical "feet on the ground" attitude. Personally, I am very thankful
the opportunity has come my way to be of some service to Masc:mry in
this particular.

rials are becoming scarcer with indications that some items will soon be
impossible to obtain. There is a general demand throughout the nation to
postpone any development that can be deferred without material loss, and
that there will come a time when there will be a genuine demand for
employment by those who are now engaged in defense activities, and that
by waiting until that time Welcome Lodge will not only be serving a
national need but will actually save considerable money for the Lodge.
In the meantime the Lodge can take advantage of the present situation
and strengthen its financial condition; thus it will be better prepared to
realize its present ambition."

264

Riverbank Lodge No. 459
This Lodge made a request of the committee for consent to borrow
$2,000.00 for the purpose' of refinancing an existing debt.
The terms of the new loan as to interest and repayment of principal
being satisfactory and being more favorable than the existing indebtedness
and the holder of the old obligation being desirous of having the loan
repaid, the consent of this committee was given to the Lodge for the
contracting of an indebtedness of $2,000.00.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655, Situated at Long Beach
This Lodge, in June 1941, purchased a lot to be used as a building

The following is a brief outline of the activities of the committee:
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528 and Beverly Hills Masonic
Building Association
Report by this committee last year was made upon the wish of· the
brethren at Beverly Hills to provide for themselves a new Temple. The
wish was revived again ·this year and plans and specifications for a new
building prepared and also a plan of financing tentatively agreed upon.
The financing plan contemplated the raising of funds without having
recourse to any funds of the Lodge. It also proposed the · complete
financing without the. necessity of a loan. However, due to the fact that
the Lodge could get by without the Temple and that in the construction
of the Temple there would be used some, although a limited amount, of
vital war material, and that the committee had, the previous year, adopted
a policy of discouraging the building of Temples for the duration, the
application was not approved.
·
Two members of this committee met with the officers of . the Lodge
and of the Building Association and the request of the Lodge, together
with the attitude of the committee, was thoroughly gone over.
The brethren of Beverly Hills Lodge very graciously acceded ·to the
decision of the committee and ceased active effort toward the building of
a new Temple and are now waiting (and probably with a good deal of
impatience) for the time to come when they can again consider providing
themselves with an adequate home.
For the information of all present, the committee is desirous of stating
the position previously assumed by this committee on the building of new
Temples and reported in the 1941 proceedings, in its rejection of the application of Welcome Lodge No. 255 at Lemoore, in which its position was
stated as follows:
"Your committee has given this matter thorough study and has concluded that the project should be deferred until a more appropriate time.
We do not attempt to thwart the ambition and desire of any Lodge to
own its own home, but considering the present high cost of building, the
probability that costs will further materially increase, that building mate-

265

site.
The consent of this committee, for the using of Lodge funds for this
purpose, was not obtained at the time of the purchase. Upon being
apprized, by the Inspector of the district, Brother Clark H. Shaw, of the
need of securing the consent of the Committee on Finan'cing Building
Projects for the use of Lodge funds for such an investment, application
was made to this committee this year, for the approval of the action taken
previously. Such approval was given. No building activities at the present
time are contemplated nor authorized.
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444
In this committee's report at last year's session of Grand Lodge, it
reported on the need of the above Lodge for $2500.00, for the purpose of
restoring damage done to its Temple by an earthquake and that it had
certified all the facts surrounding the Temple problem to Grand Master
Wilson.
The earthquake damage was severe and in order to prevent further
damage the need for action was immediate. The holder of the mortgages
also gave notice of intent to foreclose unless this damage was repaired.
The loan on the Temple at that time was $12,000.00. The then mortgage
holder made the proposition to the Lodge, that if immediate payment
could be arranged it would accept $5,000.00 in full settlement of the debt,
or in other words, it would grant the Lodge a discount of $7,000.
Before the Lodge could negotiate a new loan it, of course, was necessary to have the earthquake damage repaired. Tentative arrangements had
been made for a lo;in sufficient not only to pay the $5,000.00 required to
settle the old loan, but also an additional $2,500.00 to pay the amount
which was needed for restoration. Upon the recommendation of this committee, together with that of the Committee on Finance, the Grand Master
made the $2,500.00 advance. The Lodge was able to completely, restore
the Temple and was enabled to secure the $5,000.00 necessary to pay off
the old mortgage, but it was not able to secure sufficient to reimburse
the Grand Lodge for the $2,500.00 advanced.

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Considerable correspondence passed between this committee and the
Lodge and the Inspector of that district, Brother Ralph C. Hine, who ren-·
dered very valuable service in the first instance and throughout the entire
negotiations.
It was suggested to our present Grand Master by this committee,
that the note of th_e Lodge be taken for $2,500.00, for the money advanced
and that all future considerations of the loan be assigned to the Committee
on Finance.
East Bay Lodge No. 489 and East Bay Masonic Building Association
There was presented to the Most Worshipful Grand Master by two
brethren of this Lodge, who were the holders of a somewhat large investment in the stock of the East Bay Masonic Building Association, a dissatisfaction at this excess holding of investment by themselves and others
and over the inability to secure, what they considered, adequate consideration by the Lodge and its present members, of this holding and possible
method of relief.
The Grand Master, believing there was a sufficient possibility of
misunderstanding and discord in the Lodge over this problem to warrant
an investigation, requested this committee to make same and assemble all
facts and report the same, together with the conclusions of the committee,
to him.
A thorough investigation was made and an ample report of the committee's findings and recommendations was submitted to the Grand Master.
Copies of this report were furnished the Master of the Lodge, the President
of the Hall Association and a representative of the two brethren presenting
the problem.
In the opinion of the committee no criticism is due any of the parties
concerned. All displayed a desire to .work out the problem on an amicable
and harmonious basis. It is hoped that the work of the committee may
have been of some help to the Grand Master and to the Lodge.
Brentwood Lodge No. 345
The Grand Master referred to this committee a letter from Brother
Louis Mittleman, Inspector ~f the 29th Masonic District, having to do
with Brentwood Lodge and its Masonic Temple Association. A letter was
addressed to the Secretary of the Lodge, requesting a statement of the
Lodge and of the Temple Association, but no reply has ever been received.
Considerable correspondence passed between the committee and
Brother Mittleman and subsequently
visit was paid to the community,
Brother Mittleman accompanying. None of the officers of the Lodge were
in town. However, discussion was bad with the Tiler of th e Lodge, who
is ·a Past Master and who is, also, President of the Temple Association.
Discussion was also held with the bank that holds the loan on the Temple.
A report of the situation, together with the conclusions of the committee,
were submitted to the Grand Master. It was the conclusion of the com-·
mittee that, while there is not at the present time an unsatisfactory Temple
problem, there will be unless the Lodge is stirred to a proper Masonic
spirit and renewed interest in Masonry.

a

El Dorado Lodge No. 26, Situated at Placerville
Applicatiori was received from the above Lodge to purchase stock in
the Placerville Masonic Hall Association from the following:
St. James Chapter, R. A. M., 1970 shares.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

267

El Dorado Commandery, K. T., 3850 shares.
At a price not to exceed $1.00 per share. By the purchase of this stock
the Lodge would become the sole holder of the Temple stock.
. As .the Lodge's finances warranted and as the Temple was not only
paymg its own way but acc4mulating a surplus, and as the physical value
of the property, as well as the income therefrom, made the stock worth
more than was being paid therefor, it appeared to the committee that it
was ~ntirely in order to grant the consent and therefore approval for this
purchase was given.
Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18, Situated at Downieville
The Grand Master referred to the committee a letter received from
Norman L. Costa, Past Master of the above Lodge, in which inquiry was
made as to what, if any, part of a recovery made from the state for damages done by flood to the hall of this Lodge should be returned to Grand
Lodge.
·
That Grand Lodge may now understand the up-to-date situation, it
probably is in order for this committee to review, that during the term
of Grand Master Fraser in 1938 the Temple of this Lodge was badly damaged by flood. As the Lodge was small and without sufficient funds in
the treasury to repair this damage the Grand Master had paid to the
Lodge, out of the funds of 0rand Lodge, the sum of $900.00 for the purpose of rehabilitating this damage. Subsequently, an association was organized in the community and a claim presented to the state for the damage
done. From this claim a net return to the Lodge of $533.34 was received.
The question submitted was what, if any, part of this sum should be
returned to Grand Lodge.
Letters were written to the Master and to the Secretary of the Lodge
and to Brother Costa, requesting information as to the general condition
of the Lodge and of the Temple and what, if any, additional repairs .to
the building might be required. No response has been received from any
of those addressed. Communication was had, however, with Brother
Joubert, Inspector of the 12th Masonic District, who is located at Camptonville. Brother Joubert paid a visit to the Lodge and reported the Lodge
had in its treasury about $900.00; that there still remains some work to be
done on the Temple; that it was the wish of the Lodge' to reimburse
Grand Lodge for the full amount advanced, but that the treasury o'f the
Lodge, as 'well as future prospects, did not warrant them attempting to
pay anything at the present time.
It appeared to this committee that this was a problem for the Committee on Finance, rather than the Committee on Financing Building
Projects; that it should be determined what, if any, additional r epairs
were · needed on the Temple; what amount would be left remaining in
the Lodge treasury if these repairs were made; that it was not very probable the Lodge would ever be in condition to repay the loan, provided the
advance were to be considered as such, and therefore, it probably would
be advisable at this time to determine what, if any, amount the Lodge
should return to Grand Lodge and in this manner entirely dispose of the
transaction.

Such a report was made to the Grand Master and he has directed
the Committee on F inance to look into the matter. and make a repoct
to Grand Lodge of its conclusions.

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

269

N ew Masonic Temple Association, Situated at Long Beach
This committee at the last annual communication of Grand Lodge
rendered a report on the financial problem of the above ~ssociation and
the plans being worked upon by the brethren there, of making satisfactory
adjustment of this very unsatisfactory situation: The fund raising campaign
inaugurated resulted in the raising of $28,970.59. This amount was not
sufficient to effect a satisfactory compromise with the holder of the mortgage, being a Building and Loan Association in liquidation by the Building
and Loan Commissioner.
As the purpose for which the money was raised could not be accomplished, all monies collected were returned to the original donors and the
effort abandoned. So far as the information of this committee goes, no
further action has been taken.
W arren G. H arding Lodge No. 579, Situated at North Sacramento
An application has been received from the above Lodge for consent
to purchase the building in which it is now meeting.
The information furnished in the original application was not su.fficient
on which to base a determination. Additional information has been requested. Due to this, no decision has been rendered upon the application .
Other Activities'
Correspondence has been had by this committee with the following
Lodges and Temple Associations :
King David Lodge and Masonic Hall Association at San Luis Obispo.
Perris Lodge No. 411.
San Gabriel Masonic Temple Association.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379.
Tyrian Lodge No. 439 at Manteca.
Colusa Lodge No. 240.
Garden Grove Lodge No. 586.
Yount Lodge No. 12 at Napa.
In none of the above cases was any perm1ss10n given for the investment or expenditure of Lodge funds and no action of moment taken, and
therefore no detailed report is now submitted on these activities.
This report has been submitted to the other two members of the
committee and has their approval.
Fraternally submitted,
WM. P . FILMER, Chairman, .
H . c. GOLDMAN,
ARTHUR S. CRITES,

Committee.

Adopted.
Past Grand Master Arthur S. Crites, who presented this
'report, read a telegram of greetings from Captain Herbert C.
Goldman, a member of the committee, stationed at Miami
Beach, Florida, with the United States Army.
·

REPORT O F COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE
MASONRY
T o the Most Worshipf"l Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report as
follows :
In last year's report the committee outlined its policy concerning
Clandestine Masonry and stated that it should not be given existence even
to the extent of naming its Lodges in our reports. In conformity with this
policy we believe that our work should be largely educational, but always
contacting these spurious bodies and their activity to the end of preventing
. fraud and imposition.
As an example of the wisdom of this say-nothing policy as opposed
to that of publishing all the statistics, we desire to cite the following :
There has come to the attention of this committee a copy of the July
number of "Square & Compass," a magazine published in Denver by regular Masons, containing an article entitled "Filipino Masons in California."
The article dealt entirely with Clandestine Filipino Masons and their
Lodges in California and treated the entire subject as an activity of regular
Masonry. The material in this article was taken entirely frorn previous
Grand Lodge reports of this committee. The article was unwittingly reproduced in a Masonic magazine published in San Diego by one of our own
good brothers. Such unfortunate occurrences are the result of putting all
the information in our printed reports and the elimination and correction
of them is one of the objects of this committee.
During the past this committee has reported upon 21 so-called Grand
Lodges of Clandestine Masonry having an existence at some time or other
in California. Some of the constituent Lodges noted in these reports have
existed under as many as three different Grand Lodges. However, of the
21 Grand Lodges reported on, five have been heretofore reported as having
a mere paper existence, and inactive. Six of those reported, having a total
of thirty-seven constituent so-called Lodges, have either passed out of
existence entirely or nothing has been heard of them since 1936.
Of those remaining in existence, one is purely patriotic in character
and concerns itself with labor issues and cannot be considered essentially
Masonic in character. Of the others, three are Filipino Grand Lodges
with a total of 51 constituent Lodges; four are Mexican or Spanish speaking Grand Lodges with 52 constituent Lodges; and two are Negro Grand
Lodges having a total of 46 constituent Lodges. Two Lodges seem to be
working under no Grand Lodge authorization, but independently as individual Lodges.
Concerning these Clandestine Lodges, those operating among the
colored race are of no particular concern to regular Masonry. They do
not operate outside of their own race and seem to be doing a good work
within their own numbers. One of these Grand bodies is very sick in its
structure and Lodges and may eventually eliminate itself, while the other
is going on with its work, proudly imitating the Grand Lodge of California
as far as it can.
Of the three Filipino Grand Lodges, there is considerable activity at
the present time and you have had a particular report up.on them from
Brother Potts in so far as they concern the Hawaiian Islands. Our Grand_

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Master did Masonry a real service in this connection by hi"s action reported
in his annual report. This action of the Grand Master in requiring the
payment of dues by members of regular Philippine Lodges and the issuing
of certificates by the Grand Secretary, effectually separated the regular
Masons of the recognized Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands from
the members of the three Clandestine Grand Lodges operating in our
jurisdiction. We appreciate and praise the work of our Grand Master in
this connection.
The real concern of this committee is with the four active Grand
Lodges operating in the Spanish language and having 52 constituent
Lodges in this jurisdiction. At first we were concerned only with Grand
Lodges of this variety, having their headquarters at some place in Mexico.
Later, however, a Grand Lodge having its headquarters in Laredo, Texas,
came to the front and became the most active. The activity of this so-called
Grand body seems to have been considerably if not effectually curtailed
by the action of the Grand Lodge of Texas in curbing its activities there
and its Lodges in this state have largely transferred their allegiance t6 a
Grand Lodge organized later with headquarters in New York · state. This
New York Grand Lodge seems now to be the most active and is at present
organizing another new Lodge.
Heretofore the material with which Mexican and Filipino Clandestine
Lodges dealt was not of a class or type that would ordinarily disturb
the individual Lodges of this jurisdiction in their wo~k in the field .o f
Masonry. It was only when the activities of these Clandestine .Lodges
involved fraud or imposition that regular Masonry concerned · itself, and
then only for the sake of helping the individual imposed upon. With the
changing economic conditions and with the war conditions as they affect
the Filipino race, this status may change and we may find ourselves confronted with a problem of major importance. It is therefore essential that
the work of this committee be continued with greater intensity so far a~
a close surveillance of the activities of these Clandestine Lodges is concerned. It may well be that with a changing economic world the attainments of those who have heretofore been content with this spurious brand
of Masonry might be improved to the extent that they may become proper
material for regular Masonic Lodges. Before that time actually arrives,
this (';.rand Lodge should be in possession of the information and the data
which would enable it to act intelligently and wisely in the interests of
Masonry.
In the case of the Spanish speaking race, if it becomes a question of
a lack of acquaintance with the English language that is inducing these
men to affiliate themselves with Clandestine Lodges, then it may be the
work of this Grand Lodge to authorize in certain communities the chartering of Spanish speaking Lodges ·under rules covering the operation of
the present French Lodges and German Lodge now operating in San
Francisco and Los Angeles under charters from this Grand Lodge. . Or if
these men desire rather to become members of regular Mexican Lodges
in various communities with which they may be identified, it may be a
question of California ·Lodges granting . waivers of jurisdiction to enable
them to acquire such membership. This, then, may be further followed
with the organization of Mexican Masonic Clubs through which these men
could attain their social objectives, and at the same time allowing them
to visit the California Lodges to obtain their Masonic inspiration and
teaching. The approach to the· solution of this problem must be studied
and the action determined upon only when the facts are thoroughly known
to the committee and the full information can be given to Grand Lodge.

. The outcome of war on the other hand, may itself formulate our
a.ction with respect to Filipino Clandestine Masons and their organizations. In this connection it is to be noted that at least at present the
member~hip of these organizations is not of the calibre of regular Filipino
Lodges m the Islands. The Lodges in the Philippine Islands are composed
of Anglo-_Saxons and Filipinos, the latter constituting the majority of
membership. However, these Filipinos are the business men, officials and
others responsibly identified with their respective communities and the
activities in the Islands, whereas the membership of the Clandestine
Lodges in California is upon the average of a much lower grade. For the
P.resent, at least, th·e· great number of these are not even acceptable Masonic
t~mber. War conditions may, however, change this and anyway, the solut10n of this problem must be left to the future.

271

The committee has at this time been content with suggesting to this
Grand body for its consideration some of the factors involved in the
probl~m. an.cl ~o~e of the possible solutions. It remains for regular Masons
of this Jun~d1ct10n to e.ducate themselves to their duties with regard to
~ontacts with Clandestine Masonry and to keep this committee fully
informed as to what is going on with regard to it in the various communities where it has become active. The committee reiterates that no
regular Masonic Lodge should admit to its meetings a Clandestine Mason
nor .should an individual Mason visit or fraternize in any way with a Clandestine Lodge. The committee has this year investigated several activities
reported to it and has assisted in the suppression of the issuance of Masonic
certificates by one of our former brothers.
During the coming year this committee will gather more specific data
as. to the extent and character of Clandestine Masonry in California and
will endeavc;ir. to f~rmulate and suggest methods which will eventually
stop the activity at its sources. It must be ·borne in mind that this cannot
effectually be done by prosecution without developing a persecution sym?at~".· Hence the necessity. of solving the problem through the study of
~nd~v~dual cases and suggesting the remedy which will apply and heal the
md1v1dual case.
·
Respectfully submitted,

w ARREN E. LIBBY,
}OHN ALPERS,
0RLA A. PRATT,
FRANK P. ROULLARD,
FRED SPRING,
WARN ER W. A U STIN,
]. WALTER PROCTER,

Committee.

Adopted.

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We recommeud that such provision be made for support and maintenance during the year 1942-1943 as will be adequate for the purpose.
Fraternally subn;iitted by order of the Board of Directors.
By BEN G. WRIGHT, Chairman.

REPORT OF THE MASONIC CLUBHOUSE
AT U . C. L. A.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Board of Directors of the Club House at the University of California at Los Angeles has again directed me to present our annual report.
A year ago, our nation was engaged in a "Preparedness Program";
today we are at war, and just as our nation is geared into a great war
program, so is our fraternity. We are truly seeing Masonry in action,
and following the lead of our Most Worshipful Grand Master and in keeping with the times, the Club House at Los Angeles is in step.
Occupying as we do a strategic place in the university life, we are
furnishing leadership as well as the use of our facilities to every movement
which has as its objective the welfare of our men in the service and the
promotion of the war effort.
It is with extreme regret that we note the passing of our beloved
Brother Elmer E. Beckman, who served as Secretary of this Board from
its inception. He was kind and considerate as well as faithful and efficient,
a·nd our Club House might well be considered a monument to him. The
office of Secretary has been filled by the election of Brother Walter L.
Berger.
The financial condition is reflected by Brother Reynold E . Blight's
report which is attached and made a part hereof.
With respect to the budget for the ensuing year, our estimate is as
follows:
Hostess ............................................................................................$1,620.00
Hostess relief .................................................................................. · 180.00
Building superintendent .............................................................. 720.00
Heat, light, power and water...................................................... 600.00
Additional janitor assistance........................................................
50.00
Gardening ........................................................................................ 240.00
Stationery and printing................................................................ 150.00
Telephone ........................................................................................ 180.00
General building maintenance...................................................... 500.00
Office expense .......................................................:........................ • 500.00
Subscriptions .................................................................................. 75.00
Taxes and assessments .........,........................................................ 1,300.00
Insurance ........................................................................................ 150.00
Auditing .............................................................................................
50.00
Bookkeeping .................................................................................... 300.00
Miscellaneous .................................................................................. 150.00
Social security ................................................................................ 50.00
Janitor supplks ..............................................................................
50.00
Postag~ ......................................................................................:..... 175.00
. $6,615.00
Building depreciation reserve...................................................... 1,000.00
Total ................................................................~ .........................$7,615.00

273

~dopted except that portion requesting an ·appropriation,
which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
HIST ORY
To the Most .Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report of its activities during the past year, together with its recommendations.
· In compliance with the written request of the Grand Master, that the
length cf oral reports be reduced to a reasonable minimum, we will content
ourselves in this report with a very brief recital of some of the many
interesting, new items which have come to our attention during the past
year.
.

Members of the committee have responded to requests from Lodges

~n all parts of the state to deliver addresses on Masonic history. The travel-

ing and other expenses incident to their visitations have been borne by
the individual members and, as in past years, no part of the committee's
appropriation has been used fo~ personal expenses.
You~ committee ~ms recently come into possession of interesting and
.
informative data relative to the following California Masons:
·
William Watt, a member of Madison Lodge No. 23, who owned the
rich quartz claim into which the famous Brennen ledge at Gra.s s Valley
dipped.

William T . Coleman, chairman of the San Francisco Vigilante Committee of 1856.
Leland Stanford, War Governor of California and member of Michigan
City Lodge No. 47.
John W. Geary, the last Alcalde and first mayor of San Francisco
and member of California Lodge No. 1.
Jacob Leese, whose daughter was the first white child born in' Y erba
Buena.
John Bigler, Governor ~f California and member of Washington Lodge
No. 20 of Sacramento.
Ruel Colt_ Gridley, a ~ember ~f several Nevada and California Lodges,
who won !~sting fame dun.ng the Civil War by personally raising $150,000
for ~he .Sanitary ~und. This sum was raised by Gridley through the public
auctioning of a smgle sack of flour in the western states.
John Chilton Burch, · California congressman and Past Master of Trinity Lodge No. 27 at Weaverville.
J ~hn' Goller, a member of the ill-starred J ayhawker Party of emigrants
who, in 1849, all but perished in their trip through Death Valley. Goller
was a member of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42.
David D. Colton, friend of Charles Crocker and business associate of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the so-called Big Four in the Central Pacific Railroad Company. He was
a member of St. John Lodge No. 37, at Yreka.
We have also found some additional and interesting stories of the
activities of 'Paschal Taylor, popularly known as "Jock" Taylor. A member and at one time Tyler of Lassen Lodge No. 149 at Susanville. Taylor
appears to have been the champion practical joker of the Honey Lake
Valley.
We have completed the history of that pioneer Mason, John Paty, a
s hip captain who lived in Honolulu. He was mentioned by Carter M.
Carew in a letter written in 1843 to his brother in Philadelphia. Carew
states that Paty was the leader of the Masons at Yerba Buena who were
considering the advisability of applying for a dispensation to form a Lodge
in California.
After over eight months of research, your committee has completed
its study into the life of Lansford Warren Hastings. He was a mem_ber of
Tehama No. 3. He was beyond question one of the most energetic and
spectacular characters of the pre~gold rush period. He was self-centered
and ambitious and had a rather exaggerated ego. However, he possessed
a dynamic personality; was a plausible and convincing Speake;; ve;satile
and not easily discouraged and had the happy faculty of adap~mg hupself
to all and any circumstances. He was a born adventurer ~nd filibusterer.
In the spring of 1842, he had passed the bar in the state of Ohio and
joined the Elizah White party bound for Oregon. He was soon elected
captain of the party which arrived safely in Oregon several months later.
He laid out Oregon City, the first officially plotted . townsite on the
Pacific Coast.
In 1844 with John Bidwell, he laid out the town site of Sutterville for.
Captain Sutter.
In 1845, he returned to Ohio via Mexico and Texas and while east
wrote and published a book entitled "Emigrant Guide to Oregon and
California." He lectured throughout the east on the future of the Pacific
Coast. He painted the future in glowing terms and urged those seeking
health, wealth and adventure to investigate the potentialities of the land
of sunshine and flowers.
On' August 15, 1845, a party of ten men left Independence, Missouri~
headed for California. Experienced plainsmen advised that it was too late
in the season to start on so long and perilous a trip across the desert
and mountains. To these warnings, the adventurous ten paid no attention.
They were mounted on horses and mules and led by . the one man .who .
had no.t as yet learned the meaning of failure, Lansford Warren Hastings.
They rode full speed ahead to the very limit of the endurance _of both men
and beasts and arrived at Sutter's Fort on December 24th, Just one day
ahead of th e snow storm which closed the Donner Pass to travel that year.
Hastings was a member of the Constitutional Convention of 1849 and
took an active part in all debates on major questions before the convention. As chairman of the committee on boundaries, he was responsible
for outlining the present boundaries of the state.
In 1846, he returned east over the trail and was instrumental in
inducing emigrants to take the so-called Hastings' cut-off, a much sh?rter
route in point of miles to California than the Fort Hall route. H~ enlisted
under Fremont during the California war in 1846 and was placed m charge
of enlistments.
Upon the outbreak of the Civil War, he espoused the southern cause
and became a major in the Confederate Army. He worked out an elaborate

and somewhat fantastic plan for the capture of Southern California, Arizona and New Mexico and incorporating this vast expanse of territory
into the Confederacy. Lack of funds on the part of the Confederacy was
in the main responsible for the failure of this plan.
Following the war, he visited Brazil in search of land to colonize with
southerners who desired to be free from Yankee rule. He received a grant
of 600,000 acres 500 miles up the Amazon. Through his effort several ship
loads of southern home-seekers reached Brazil. Hastings died in 1870
enroute to Brazil. Today a mere handful of the descendants of the settlers
remain in Brazil.
We have also collected all available information on the life and activities of that distinguished and heroic flyer, General James H . Doolittle,
whose bombing of Tokio thrilled the entire allied world. He is a member
of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.
The life story of Homer Lea, the crippled dwarf, reads more like a
scenario born in the fertile brain of a Hollywood script writer who gives
full rein to his overwrought imagination, than it does to the modern
realistic history of a person in flesh and blood.
In 1896, Lea graduated from a Los Angeles high school and later
attended Occidental College and Stanford University. He was a born
soldier and a military genius. He devoted most of his time to the study
of military history, tactics
and strategy..
.
At the age of 23, with no military record, he offered his services to
the Revolutionary army in China and was appointed lieutenant general
and chief of staff. He successfully carried on the fight for the overthrow
of the Manchu Dynasty. He was present at the establishment of the
Chinese Republic and the inauguration of Sun Yet Sen, China's first
president.
Lea was the author of two books which startled the military world
by their bold and daring revelations. His factual and philosophic discussion of the causes of war and the downfall of nations has been characterized as the most lucid, searching and convincing analysis of those subjects
contained in English literature.
Lea died shortly after the establishment of the Chinese Republic. He
was a member of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, Past Grand Master James B.
Gist having conferred the second and third Degrees on him in 1905.
Your committee has in its files magazine and newspaper articles
depicting his unique career and also several special papers prepared by
those who were his life-long friends.
We wish to acknowledge our indebtedness to Past Grand Masters
Gist and Weller and to Brothers Marshal Stimson and Marko Newmark,
all of Los Angeles, for articles and facts .pertaining to Homer Lea's colorful
history.
At our annual communication in 1940, a member of our committee
related the history of Walter Wilcox, the Masonic orphan sent by the
Masons of New Orleans from that city to California in 1877. In Walter
Wilcox, we have the Masonic orphan sent from . the east to the west.
Recently we learned of a Masonic orphan sent from the west to the east
a few years later. Our attention was calltd to this by the following item
which appeared in a newspaper published in Truckee, California, at the
time.

274

275

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"A MASON'S CHILD: On Wednesday, April 26, 1882, a boy
about seven years old passed through Truckee going east with the
following placard about his neck: 'The bearer of this is Eddie
Sympson, an orphan boy of a brother Mason, who is enroute to
Genese6, Illinois, to join his relatives. Charles Riles, W. M. of
Stewart Lodge No. 92, will be at the depot to meet him and
deliver him to his relatives. Money has been placed in the hands
of the conductor to defray his incidental expenses; also he is in
possession of a first-class ticket.'-Theodore H. Wilhelm, W. M.;
George W. Hill, Secretary.
"The youngster was as happy as a child could be, and his
little pockets were full of quarters and halves, bestowed by passengers and others, and the conductors were as proud ·of their
protege as if he had been their own."

Many of these will in all probability distinguish themselves and write their
names high in the military annals of th eir country. These brethren have
been, are now, and will be living history. The full record of 'their valiant
and heroic deeds should be preserved for posterity. Your committee feels
that the most convenient agency to properly follow and record the war
career of the members of each California Lodge would be some willing
and competent member of that Lodge. Therefore, your committee respectfully recommends that each Lodge appoint some brother to keep a fu ll
and complete record of each member of his Lodge who has been is now
or will be in the armed forces of the United States during th~ presen~
world war a~d we suggest ,that a scrap book be kept in which may be
pasted all articles published relative to said inducted members.

This boy's father, Charles Sympson, had been a member of Madison
Lodge No. 23 at Grass Valley and died in 1879. Through correspondence
with the Illinois Lodge we learned that Eddie arrived safely in that state
and was raised by his relatives, but shortly after reaching his majority
he died. There is no evidence of his having become a Mason.
Olivet Lodge No. 205 at Corning had a member who demitt~d to
Western Star No. 2. His was a rather significant name. It was B. A.
Mason.
In the early mining days there was a bar on the Klamath River
called Masonic Bar and there was on file in Siskiyou County Recorder's
Office the record of a mine named "The Masonic Bar Mine.'' We have not
been able as yet to identify the owners thereof as Masons.

Your committee recently learned that The Masonic Monthly, a publication in the City of San Francisco, contained articles purporting to portray
the real history of Western Star No. 2. The articles in question were published in 1879 and are alleged to contain much source material relating to
the transactions of that Lodge from its first meeting up to and includi,ng
the year 1877. We have located a copy in an eastern library and will soon
have the information for our files. We hope these articles may throw some
light on the history of that historic Lodge from its inception and including
the year 1852. The minutes of the first two years are not now in existence.
This magazine also published a letter written by Past Grand Master Hyam
"giving some additional light" on the history of Western Star.
Brother Miles McK. Anderson, Past Master of San Mateo Lodge No.
226 and a member of this committee, has written, directed and presented
a 1fasonic play depicting the formation of the Grand Lodge of California
in 1850. One scene re-enacts the election of Benjamin D. Hyam as Grand
Master in 1852 and the special session of Grand L odge called that year
by the Deputy Grand Master to consider charges against the Grand Master. In another scene Brother Anderson gives his interpretation of the
events which transpired on the evening of June 3, 1852, when Grand Master Hyam was a visitor to California Lodge. Also the visit of the Grand
Master to Downieville on the occasion of his making Dr. C. D. Aiken a
Mason after he was rejected by Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18 is
graphically portrayed. The play ends with the defense of Hyam as contained . in his "Narrative,'' a reprint of which is included in the pamphlet
entitled "Years Past and Minutes Gone" by Brother Mark A. Sawrie.
Before this war is concluded, there will have been many thousands
of California Masons inducted into the armed forces of the United States.

277

At the last annual communication of Grand Lodge the sum of $250.00
was appropriated for the use of this committee. Our actual expenditures
only amounted to $103.38. Therefore·, in keeping with our experience this
past year and th e economy program necessitated by the present emergncy,
your committee feels that it will be ab le to adequately function with an
appropriation of $150.00.
We hereby submit the following recommendations and move their
adoption.
·
(1) That the Committee on Masonic History be continued for the
ensuing Masonic year.
(2) That the sum of $150.00 be appropriated and set aside for the use
of said committee.
.
Respectfu lly submitted,

LEON 0. WHITSELL, .Chairman,
W. C. ARBUCKLE,
W. A. CHALFANT,
ROSCOE L. CLARK,
CHAS. E. HASS,
CHARLES R. INGRAM,
WILSON E. NEWLON,
THOMAS NORRIS,
DAVID TULLOCH,
Guy J. GIFFEN,
MILLARD W. YOUNG,
MARTIN C. ARTH UR,
MILES McK. ,ANDERSON,
Committee.

The . report w~s adopted save that portion requesting an
appropriation, which was referred to the Committee on Finance
and the portion requesting a continuation of the committee'
which was referred to the Committee on Policy and Generai
Purposes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

278

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT
BOARD
To .the Most Worshipfi'l Grand Lodge of California:
Your Endowment Board herewith presents its tenth annual report for
the period commencing September 23, 1941, and ending September 23, 1942:
The board is now constituted as follows:
1942
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Edmund A. Lockett
Robert B. Gaylord
Henry G. Hill
Donald F. Tyler

1943
Reynold E. Blight
Harry F. White
Carl E. Miller
Rollie W. Miller
Orno E. Tyler

1944 .
Ernest G. Bashor
Arthur S. Crites
Louis C. Drapeau
James T . Fraser
Ira D. Wheeler

The officers of the board are:
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Chairman
Rol)ie W . Miller, Vice Chairmano
Robert B. Gaylord, Vice Chairman
Wm. P . Filmer, Treasurer
Reynold E. Blight, Secretary
An earnest effort has been made this year by your board fully to perform its duty to Grand Lodge and it reports a record of successes and
failures. We have striven to stimulate interest in, and a deeper consideration for, our two splendid homes on the part of Lodges and the membership,
and to secure voluntary contributions to the Endowment Fund.
·•
As heretofore, we have pursued the program of disseminating information to the craft through the Lodges relative to the great benevolent work
of Masonry in this jurisdiction by establishing and maintaining two adequate and useful homes, the loving parental care given our orphans at
Covina and the solicitous interest in the welfare of our elderly Masons and
women at D ecoto, the need of an Endowment Fund to protect and safeguard the homes and our guests therein, the continuing policy of Grand
Lodge to augment the principal of the Endowment Fund by voluntary
gifts until it attains adequate proportions, the opportunity offered to members of the craft to give out of their store a donation to a noble cause--a
donation that will not be ephemeral, but will continue its beneficence for
many generations of men, and to impress the membership with the present
duty of observing the great tenet of relief.
. The impact of the war with its dislocations, disturbances, uncertainties
and griefs seriously affects th e disposition and ability of many Masons to
cooperate financially in our efforts. The important task of providing an
ample War Relief Fund was commenced in the Endow:ment Fun.d . m~nth
of May and solicitations for that fund ran concurrently with our sohc1tahons
for the Endowment Fund. Many demands from many quarters have had
to be met by all patriotic and charitable men. Your board is grateful for
the success it has attained under adverse circumstances, but feels that it
has failed to carry its message to the members and to impress the officers
of more than one hundred Lodges which could not, or would not, assist in
the work assigned to us by Grand Lodge. The fault is doubtless ours, and
we confess it in all humility.

LJ9

Total Receipts for Year
The total amount received for the year as additions to the Endowment
Fund amounted to $58,577.51, made up as follows:
Received from members of constit uent Lodges...... :...........$31,278.-03
Miscellaneous receipts ································-·····--·····················--·
369.25
From bequests and testamentary gifts.................................... 26,930.23
$58,577.51
The number of Lodges contributing is 443.
Num.ber of Lodges failing to contribute, 139.
Percentage of participating Lodges, 76.12%.
Percentage of non-participating Lodges, 23.88% .
Number of individual contributors, 8066.
Percentage of donors in comparison with jurisdictional membership,
6.4%. Last year's percentage, 5.25% .
War Savings Stamps and Bon ds were contributed by members of
Lodges in the amount of $1606.30 an d by non-members in the sum of
$47.50, and this is included in the above totals.
In the item of Miscellaneous Receipts is included a gift of $250.00
from Mrs. Virgil Bruschi, Jr., widow of Past Master of Silver Gate Lodge
No. 296, given in memory of her husband; $18.75 in War Savings Stamps
won by Ed Kaufman through th e Vega Bond-a-Month Club and donated
to the fund; $18.75 contributed by the 1939 Warders' Association, 0 . E. S.,
of San Francisco; $25.00 from the Southern California Masonic Club, and
$7.00 from the Peniel Mission. :
Please observe that the Auditor's Report shows the amount of money
transmitted by this board to the Masonic Homes of California prior to
August 1, 1942, while this report is based upon the amounts remitted by
this board to September 20, 1942. All items remitted by us to the Masonic
Homes of California since July 31, 1942, will appear in the Auditor's Report
as of July 31, 1943. The fiscal year of Grand Lodge ends July 31st, while the
service of this board and its activities continues until the annual communication of Grand Lodge in October. A substantial part of the donations
through this board are received subsequent to July 31st.
For the purposes of this report the membership of t he Lodges as of
July 31, 1941, is· used as the basis of calculations herein. Such membership
was 125,843 and the number of Lodges was, and is now, 582. Some Lodges
sent in reports without names or amounts, and in most cases the names of
donors of War Savings Stamps were not given to the board.
The amounts contributed through the Lodges, and th e number of
donors, are as follows:
$500.00....................
2
$50.00 ··-····················· 13 $5.00 to $10.00...... 36
400.00....................
2
25.00 to $50.00........
6
5.00 ····-···-·-------·····1756
1.00 to $5.00........2883
150.00....................
1
25.00 ····-----···········---· 45
100.00.................... 4
20.00 --··------·------······· 47
1.00 ················-----.2639
10.00 to $20.00........ 56 Less than $1.00.... 187
75.00.--------···---·····
2
55.00....................
1
10.00 ····-----············--· 386
Appreciation
Your board acknowledges its debt of gratitude to the M asters, Secretaries, Home Endowment Chairmen, Inspectors and others who actively
and with generosity and success assisted in carrying out the vital work
of our program throughout the year.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the Grand Master we are particularly indebted for his yeoman
He was long chairman
of the Endowment Board and his heart and mind are devoted to the welfare
of the Homes. Without such assistance as we have received from a great
host of the brethren we could accomplish very little indeed, and to them
must be accorded the credit for the achievements of the year.

The Detwiler Estate adjustment represents an attorney's fee provided
Weller,
who donated the same to the Endowment Fund.

280

servic~ and constant support throughout the year.

During the year your board has handled correspondence amounting to
many thousands of incoming and outgoing communications. Scores of
thousands of pieces of literature have been sent to the Lodges and to
individuals. Receipts and letters of thanks have been sent to every known
donor of $1 or more. The amount of printing and postage involved is of
magnitude.
Total Assets Endowment Fund
The total assets of the Endowme.nt Fund, which includes the regular
fund and the Luckenbach Fund, shown by the Auditor's Report, is as
follows:
Amount of the fund, July 31, 1942....................................$1,366,232.17
Amount of the fund, July 31, 1941.................................... l,317,71S.99
Increase during fiscal year ....................................................$

48,S16.18

Amount remitted by Endowment Board to Masonic
Homes subsequent to July 31, 1941 :
Cash ......................................................................$16,720.53
War Savings Stamps and Bonds ... ~............ .. 1,616.30

18,336.83

Total increase _to date of this report ....................................$

66,8S3.0l

The · Endowment Fund income earned during the fiscal year and
transferred to the Masonic Homes General Fund amounted to $39,812.44.
Appended to this report will be found the report of the auditors
authorized by the Finance Committee to audit the accounts of the Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes, which covers the financial details
omitted from this report.
Testamentary Gifts
Bequests in cash were received during the year as follows in addition
to bequests of securities included in the Auditor's Report :
Frances Ellen Ryder Estate.............':........................................$ 2SO.OO
Richards Estate ............................................................................
206.04
Tonningsen Estate ...................................................................... S,464.8S
Harper Estate ..............................................................................
193.00
Detwiler Estate ............................................................................ 2,S00.00
S00.00
Detwiler Estate Adjustment................................................,.....
Conrad Justin Parr Estate.......................................................... 1,097.71
Bertha Sherwood Estate............................................................
SS0.00
Frank E. Griffith Estate...................................:..........................
88.88
H . C. Macaulay Estate................................................................ 1,000.00
David Ramelli Estate ..................................................................
S00.00
Alice Catherine Tucker Estate..................................................
100.00
Joseph W. L. Griffin Estate...................................................... 1,98S.80
Martha R. Grasse! Estate .......................................................... 10,000.00
Jere Pattison Estate...:.....................................................:.......... 1,993.9S
Mary A. Stack E state..................................................................
S00.00 .

28i

.

111 the settlement of the estate which was paid to Brother Dana R.

Honorable Mention
T?e following Lodges have secured contributions to the Endowment
Fund m excess of. $1.00 per ~ember and this board is deeply grateful to the
Masters; S~creta;1~s and Chairmen of the respective Endowment Committees for their act1v1ty and for the splendid record made by their Lodges:
MemNo.
Name of Lodge
Contributed bership
662 Henry Knox .......................................,..$667.SO
246
684 Tron a ...................................................... 76.SO
3S
S63 South Park ............................................ 640.20
300
330 . Kilauea .................................................. 346.00
178
21
337
208
96
371 Le Progres de L'Oceanie.................... S97.00
364
S06 Mt. Olive ................................................ 943.30
610
SSS White Pine ............................................ 113.SO
78
682 Barstow .................................................. 81.20
S6
62S Angeles Mesa ........................................ 443.SO
. 318
320 South Gate ...........................,................ 818.SO
S99
409 Honolulu ........................:....................... 30S.OO
224
S80 Santa Maria .......................................... 61.00
48
378 Mispah .................................................... 421.00
338
470 Lincoln .......................•.......................... 31S.OO
2S6
272 Pasadena ................................................ Sll.00
433
64S A. E. F. Irwin...........,............................ lSS.SO
13S
424 Exeter ..........................................:......... 17S.OO
1S3
629 Fairview .................................................. 117.6S
104
472 Maui ........................................................ 144.00
130
273 Anchor .................................................... 280.4S
2S9
237 Guadalupe ..........................................•... S3.SO
SI
438 Acacia ...................................................... 63.SO
61

~i~w~~ist~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~:~~

Per
Capita
$2.71
2.19
·2.13
1.94
1.84
1.66
1.64
I.SS
1.46
1.4S
1.39
1.37
1.36
1.27
1.24
1.23
1.16
1.lS
1.lS
1.13
1.11
1.08
I.OS
1.04

Bequests
The ~ccru~ng _increm~nt to the Endowment Fund through wills and
bequests is qmte 1mpress1ve. Year by year we are receiving substantial
fu?ds fro?J Masons, and others, who thereby leave a token of their generosity, t~e1r. sy~pathy for the unfortunate and their devotion to the tenets
of our mshtut10n. We. have continued to contact he attorneys of this state
who ~re Masons and, hke our predecessors, we have sown seeds which will
germmate and produce results through the years.
War Savings Stamps and Bonds
Early in the year Brother C. R. Peterson of Angeles Mesa Lodge No.
62S, Los Angeles, .suggested to the chairman of your board that many
brethren would desire to ~erform a patriotic duty by buying War Stamps
and then make the expenditure d? a double d.uty by presenting the stamps
to the _Endowment Board. Actmg upon his suggestion, we asked the
secretan~s of all ~odges to provide stamps and afford their members an
?PPOrtunity of buymg them at the Lodge. Many secretaries sold War Savmgs Stamps and $1606.30 in stamps and bonds was contributed to the
Endowment Fund by members of Lodges. The secretaries in this, as well

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

as in other ingenious methods of securing donations, were given an added
burden which they bore cheerfully and commendably.

Report of Contributions to Endowment Fund

282

Expenses of Endowment Board
'An app~opriation of $6,000 was made at the last annual communication
for the expenses of the Endowment Board and the account thereof is as
follows:
1942 Receipts
Balance shown by 1941 report............................................•..................;............$ 110.71
Appropriation of Grand Lodge in 1941................................................._....... 6,000.00
Total .................................... .............~-·-··················-············-··················-$6, 110. 71
1942 Disbursements
Expenses of board meetings ........................................................$ 501.48
Printing, postage and supplies.................................................... 3,499.62
Clerical help .................................................................................... 1,155.00
Miscellaneous ··-·-················-·······································----················6.21

Total ··--··----·-------·-····'··--··----···--·------··--····----······--·--·····-·········--·-·

5,162.31

Cash in bank September 23, 1942 .................:................- ..................$ 948.40
Your board is strong in its conviction that its aims and purposes are
of lasting benefit to the fraternity and that a continuance of its program
and efforts through the years is cumulative and that there shoud be no
cessation to break the chain of its usefulness and activity. It certainly is
recognized by all that an Endowment Fund of large proportions should be
accumulated through the coming years and that each year substantial
additions should be made to it. The board therefore recommends the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) be appropriated for the use of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board for its
expenses for the ensuing year.
Fraternally submitted,
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD,
WM. RHODES HERVEY,

CARL E. MILLER,

EDMUND A. LocKETT,

ROLLIE W. MILLER,

ROBERT B. GAYLORD,

0RNO E. TYLER,

HENRY G . HILL,

ERNEST G. BASHOR,

DONALD F. TYLER,

ARTHUR

REYNOLD E. BLIGHT,

Louis C. DRAPEAU,

HARRY F . WHITE,

]AMES T. FRASER,

!RA D. WHEELER,

WILLIAM P. FILMER.

s. CRITES,

The report was adopted save that portion requesting an
appropriation which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

283

Memher1942
1941
ship
1939
1940
1938
No.
Name
15.00
$
20.50
$118.50 $
l. California...•..................... 572 $
$
40.00
25.50
19.50
21.00
29.50
2 Western Star.'................. 106
69.50
264.58 135.50
3 Tehama..........:..........·-···· 469
.. ...........,.................. 134
20.00
5 Bemcta
58.00
335.00
14.50
8 Tuolumne......................... 202
19.50
33.00
36.00
74.50
30.00
9 Corinthian................·-····· 261
63.50
37.00
57.00
53.00
26.00
10 San Jose........................... 425
12 Yount ..............~.................. 267
13 Nevada............................_ 126
13.00
24.50
5.00
6.00
12.50
14 Temple.............................. 103
2.00
16 Eureka............................... 185
3.00
3.00
8.50
4.50
5.50
17 La Parfaite Union.......... 130
18 Mountain Shade............. 40
66.00 247.50
138.58 101.04
32.50
19 San ] oaquih..................... 549
54.00
94.50
143.00 104.50
47.00
20 Washington...................... 510
.. .......................... 337 453.50 434.00 418.54 490.70 622.50
21 H awa11an
110.50
124.50
22 Occidental.....-·········-····- 726
11.00
30.00
25.00
27.85
24.00
23 Madison............................ 211
20.00
62.50
21.50
15.50
24 Mariposa........................... 159.
11.00
15.00
7.50
25 Georgetown................·-··· 62
13.05
22.20
5.00
28.00
26 El Dorado........................ 180
15.00
20.00
15.00
15.00
27 Trinity............................- . 101
78.00
63.50
33.50
46.50
14.00
30 Golden Gate..................... 627
32 Gold Hill._...................... 92
25.50
24.00
31.00
33 Ophir................................. 44
119.60 276.75
171.50 152.52
35 San Diego................,....... 512 124.50
6.00
3.00
17.00
37 Howard................•........•... 188
18.00
78.50
1_3.50 333.50
17.50
38 Santa Cruz...................... 325
66.00
34.50
64.50
71.50
40 Sacramento...................... 521
57.79
38.50
39.05
21.00
41 Martinez......................- .. 222
70.00
130.75
152.00 188.50
42 Los Angeles .................:.... 662 252.17
43 Hiram................................ 52
10.50
28.00
15.00
44 Mount Moriah ............... 383
10.25
2.00
45 Crescent............................ 133
5.00
46 Texas...............................- 40
50.00
51.00
50.00
50.00
Forbestown...................... 56
51 Illinoistown...................... 65
55 Suisun............................... 121
56 Volcano................- ........... 35
32.03
62.67
25.00
57 Santa Rosa..............:....... 390
113.00 106.00
26.17
53.50
47.45
58 Union ................................ 508
59 Gravel Range .....•........... 46
76.00
94.00
61.25
43.50
71.00
60 Plumas.............................. 100
477.50 502.00
518.25 985.00
447.00
61 Live Oak.......................... 901
71.00
57.15
36.00
52.50
65.00
64 Natoma............................. 125
45.00
119.00
65 Amador............................. 70
25.00
25.00
66 Forest................................ 42
87.14 288.30
65.05
92.68
68 Morning Star..........·-····· 422
70 Enterprise......................... 208
2.00
1.00
76 Bear Mountain............... 67
7R Calaveras........................... 73

so

284

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Member1942
1941
1940
1939
1938
ship
Name
No.
6.50
3.50
6.60
25.30
4.75
79 Humboldt.....______ ........_. 309
5.00
5.00
80 lone.................................... 71
81 Yolo............................- ..... 52
15.00
46.50
16.00
25.00
84 Vesper..........................._ 160
225.75
199.50
2.50
171.35
77.50
Naval..
...............................
644
87
5.00
5.00
89 Rose's Bar....................... 35
6.00
91 North Star...................... 41
3.20
3.00
3.00
2. 10
93 St. Helena....................... 77
7.10
5.00
95 Henry Clay................- ... 52
2.50
93 Hornitos............................ 78
225.00
62.00
72.25
167.00
50.00
250
Yosemite
...........................
99
33.50
16.50
33.00
37.00
49.50
101 Cfay................................... 63
3.00
8.00
3.00
10.00
103 Oroville............................. 243
75.00
140.00
70.00
70.00
65.00
186
Lexington
.........................
104
10.00
20.00
25.00
13.00
106 Arcata...........................:... 188
28.00
21.00
110 Pajaro......................- ....._ 233
40.73
111 Chico................................. 309
1.00
9.50
24.00
112 Summit.............................. 41
18.00
16.37
26.53
113 Eden...................... _........... 207
14.50 120.00 109.50
117 Concord............................. 238
10.00
22.50
30.00
10.00
120 Fidelity.............................. 527
64.50
10.00
15.50
15.00
12.50
142
122 Alamo......................- ..
123 Sotoyome.......................... 146
1.78
124 Table Mountain.............. 97
18.00
126 Lafayette.......................... 175
87.00 139.71
71.00
78.40
86.00
127 Hermann......................... 201
69.50 . 17.75
23.00
74.25
28.00
128 Visalia............................... 319
15.00
11.00
129 Nicolaus............................ 81
106
131 Woodbridge.....................
27.50
132 Sincerity........................... 82
12.10
5.00
134 Vacaville........................... 141
61
135 Valley..........._...................
10.00
136 Pacific............................... 582
35.50
6.00
45.50
54.00
43.50
139 Crockett............................ 573
28.50
20.00
6.00
9.00
60
140 Curtis..............................27.00
9.50
15.50
15.00
141 Grafton............................. 66
38.00
27.00
30.00
30.00
13.00
143 Franklin............................ 88
210.00
75.00
122.00
180.00
40.00
400
144 Oriental............................
8.00
22.00
5.00
145 Vitruvius......c... ...... .......... 97
146 Abell .................................. 156
8.00 '
14.00
3.00
147 Eel River......................_.. 168
11.00
-7.50
155
149 Lassen...............................
14.00
8.00
2.00
43.00
31.00
150 Molino............................... 107
12.04
16.80
26.48
83.57
241
156 Woodland................- .......
161 Keystone..:.- ................- ... 24
164 Harmony.......................... 15
7.50
15.00
25.00 197.50
7.50
166 Excelsior.......................... 498
76.50
3.00
77.00
88.00
84.00
167 Alameda............................ 124
50.00
56.00
20.00
25.00
168 Redwood City ..........:...... 279
47.00
134.50
137.00
169 Mission......................- .... 673
71.00
211.00
173 Elk Grove....................... 113
6.00
4.00
5.00
5.00
28
Drytown
............................
174

' GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

MemberNo.
Name
ship
175 Antioch................._.......... 136
178 Phoenix............................. 461
179 Mendocino........................ 118
180 Petaluma.......................... 263
181 Russian River................. 98
182 Arbuckle........................... 73
183 Clear Lake................._.__ 42
184 Sierra Valley.................. 32
185 Oaiborne.......................... so
186 Evening Star.................. 42
187 Keith .....- ........................... 137
188 Oakland.................- .......... 755
190 Northern Light........-..... 79
191 Marin....................,............ 431
192 Santa Barqara................ 212
193 Ferndale......................_.._ 122
194 Mountain View............... 178
195 Buckeye............................ 101
196 San Simeon..........- .......... 100
198 Wilmington...................... 288
199 Hartley............................. 166
200 Truckee......................- ..... 103
201 Silveyville......................... 123
202 Pentalpha......................_ . 532
203 Confidence........................ 26
204 Salinas............................... 308
205 Olivet................................ 87
206 Stanislaus......................... 350
207 Anaheim............................ 235
208 Rio Vista................._...... 96
209 King David's................... 301
210 Friendship........................ 512
211 San Benito....................... 129
212 s. San Francisco............ 224
214 San Buenaventura......... 287
215 Oak Grove....................... 526
216 Doric................................. 453
217 Monterey..........._............. 145
218 Mosaic............................... 135
219 Speranza ltaliana........... 356
220 Downey............................. 192
221 Inyo..........._...................... 74
222 Roseville........................... 263
224 Bakersfield........................ 437
225 Brooklyn........................... 522
226 San Mateo....................... 226
228 Athens......................_....... 119
229 Solano..:.......- .................. 426
230 North Butte..............-..... 120
231 Covelo......................- ---- 49
232 Janesville.......................... 59
233 Calistoga........................... 71

1938
34.00
10.00

285

1942
17.50
75.50

1939
24.13
76.50

1940
20.50
66.95

30.00
5.50

42.00
7.50

1941
14.00
49.50
6.60
20.00
3.50

20.00

8.00
20.00

696.50

192.67

64.00
25.50

56.02
25.50

197.00
10.00
67.30
35.00

7.08

5.00

52.00
75.50

24.50
155.50

22.50
18.75
13.00

143.65
7.00
21.64
4.00
35.50
67.50
55.00

1.00
185.50
33.55
3.50
4.00

137.50

33.00
159.50

20.00

8.25
161.50
5.00

211.00

194.00

48.00
1.00

363.50

8.50
8.50
165.65
107.00
64.00
5.00
26.00

1.00
20.00
41.50
107.25
124.50
50.00
89.00
31.25
102.50

50.00
26.50
147.00

38.50
140.50

44.00
11.00
72.00
69.00
54.00
4.50
47.50

34.50
131.00
39.00
108.50

12.50
36.70
128.50
117.50
42.50
7.00
121.30
155.00
51.00
2.00
20.50
142.50
114.50
49.00

21.00

10.00
9.50
200.00
58.00

66.00
134.22
91.80

90.64
44.65
81.85

88.00
20.00

128.50

2.0~ .

23.50

40.09
132.50
155.50
94.50
10.00
63.50
43.00
153.00

25.50

4.00
15.00

3.75
5.00
37.50
159.50
42.50
74.50
35.00
42.00
162.00
8.50
132.00
15.00
57.00
147.00
84.00
194.50
13.32
70.60
5.00
2.00
53.00

286

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MemberNo.
Name
ship
234 Hope.·-············-····....·.--.. 66
235 Surprise Valley............... 53
236 Hills Ferry.........._...._.... 100
237 Guadalupe....- .................. 51
240 Colusa................................ 151
241 Santa Ana......................- 418
242 Magnolia........................... 240
243 Eucalyptus........................ 248
244 Alcatraz............................ 463
245 Laurel................................ 171
246 Pomona............................. 279
247 Fresno............................... 568
248 Alturas.;..... ~ ...................... 139
250 Adin................................... 59
253 Landmark......................... 86
254 Reading............................. 180
255 Welcome........................... 110
256 Lodi....._............................ 282
258 Penrhyn............................ 96
259 Evergreen........................ 463
260 King Solomon's .............. 553
261 Tuscan............................... 79
262 Lompoc............................. 110
264 Hesperian......................... 219
265 Orland............................... 106
266 North East...................... 51
267 Galt.................................... 63
268 Durant............................... 545
269 Olive Branch................... 191
271 Snow Mountain.............. 40
272 Pasadena........................... 433
273 Anchor .............................. 259
274 Arroyo.............................. 79
275 Oakdale............................. 116
277 Selma............................_ .. 142
278 So. California.................. 481
279 Hanford...............,............ 144
280 Madera............................... 164
281 Mount Shasta.................. 58
282 Calayomi........................... 54
283 South West..................... 172
285 San Miguel...................... 49
286 Paso Robles ..................... 118
287 Winnedumah................... 108
288 Maxwell ........................... 48
28\1 Elsinore............................. 105
290 East Gate......................... 723
291 Santa Paula.................... 256
292 Los Gatos ......................... 207
293 Orange Grove................. 191
294 Traver.........._................... 101
295 Mt. Jackson ..................... 113

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1938

1939
16.50

1940
' 16.00

1941
15.00

16.50
118.50

13.00
31.50

' 45.00
41.50

50.00
13.00

.so

132.65

25.00
5.00
31.25 .

21.00
25.00
10.00
8.00

62.50
25.00
18.36
69.50

94.35
25.00
30.00
34.00

12.00
45.00
27.00
9.05

210.00
12.00
6.00
7.00

200.00

400.00
7.00
93.50

1942 '
8.00

12.75
1.00
1.00
200.00
7.00
52.50
27.00
5.00

6.00
2.00
2.00
15.00

34.00
56.50
86.50
11.00
26.00
126.00
18.50
133.00

10.00
73.75
10.00
8.00
7.00
52.61
130.00

66.00
29.00
189.47
5.50
38.50
141.00
46.00
22.50
14.00
25.00
57.75

3.00
70.43
45.00
52.50
16.00
8.00
47.50
8.00

13.00
2.00
31.75
27.00
15.60

14.00
102.00
15.00
16.20
81.00
30.00
10.00

31.00
243.50
21.00
41.50
17.50
10.00

18.00
21.50

62.00
25.00
14.00
38.00
250.72

42.50

101.50
10.00

154.00
248.90

17.25
27.00
828.00
56.00
5.00

52.00
29.50
176.00
72.00
31.76

25.00
65.70

25.00
67.00

511.00
280.45
12.00
33.00
45.00
432.00
62.00
9.30
7.50
25.00
58.00

10.00
23.00

26.00
20.00
62.44
201.39
9.00
52.73
26.17

53.50

64.80
57.00
6.00
16.12
10.70
25.00

45.00
89.00
107.15
12.25

10.00
26.50
2.00
90.50
108.71
51.22
27.10
14.50
25.00
1.00

'

287

MemberNo.
Name
ship
1938
1939
1940
1941
'1942
296 Silver Gate..........- .......... 561
143.50
75.00
83.00 100.00
D
.
297
unsmu1r...........- .......... _ 193
44.50
45.00
23.50
70.50
75.00
299 Liberty...~......._...- ............ 220
33.00
44.00
25.00
79.00 109.00
300 Redlands ........................... 332
5.75
JOI Ontario.................. ~.......... 206
46.00
16.00 1035.50
53.50
37.50
302 Santa Lucia..................... 91
303 Porterville........................ 305
35.50 222.78 138.00
118.00
56.50
304 Reedley............................. 130
1.00
305 Azusa............................__ 150
17.25
23.45
6.50
306 Ashlar............................... 163
8.50
10.00
11.00
16.00
22.00
307 . Santa Monica.................. 241
40.00
15.00
7.00
308 Monrovia.........................: 205
17.00
24.00
28.00
31.50
309 Delano............................... 161
35.00
11.00
12.00
64.64
16.00
310 Sisson................................ 67
47.00
68.00
312 Los Banos................._..... 107
71.00
38.00
38.00
19.00
26.50
313 Tehachapi...... ~.................. 148 100.00
85.00 112.00
88.14
97.00
314 Teme~cal.. ......................... 132
8.00
5.00
5.00
1.00
315 Norwalk............................ 116
6.00
20.98
12.88
13.91
316 Sanger............................... 180
10.75
14.00
2.00
17.00
18.75
317 Fall brook.......................... 53
318 Emanuel........................... 71
5.00
5.00
319 Hollenbeck....................... l 054
18.00
22.00 250.00 303.00
320 South Gate...................... 599
65.50
136.45 313.26
109.56 818.50
321 Alisa! ...............~................. 102
15.43
16.00
37.00
29.00
24.00
322 Alhambra......................... 384
40.50
38.50
78.00
92.00
84.50
323 Whittier............................ 448
517.79 ' 217.71
191.81
125.02
324 Corona.............................. 446
8.00
80.00
51.00
72.50
325 Consuelo........................... 153
20.00
326 Needles.............................. 216 331.00
184.50 187.00
327 Long Beach..................... 485
61.50
103.00
43.75
88.00
328 Redondo ................:........... 201
15.00
19.50
61.00
62.00 100.75
329 Vallee de France............ 117
54.00
72.00
81.00
63.00
90.00
330 Kilauea .............................. 178 625.00
588.25 645.00 587.00 346.00
331 Pacific Grove.................. 156
12.75
14.50
10.75
332 San Pedro..........- .......... 425 222.00
180.50 198.00 213.00 252.00
333 Alta................................... 62
41.00
30.00
24.25
17.50
25.00
334 Covina............................... 192
10.00
47.50
335 West Gate........................ 763
142.00 233.50 152.49 286.00
70.50
336 Fruitvale........................... 749
23.50
18.50 .
28.00
64.50
337 Carquinez......................... 147
7.50
48.50
55.50
31.00
27.00
338 San Jacinto...................... 77
3.00
5.25
14.50
339 Fullerton........................... 328
73.50 244.00
341 Oxnard............................. 221
4.0D
43.00
39.00
91.02
61.50
343 San Fernando................. 246
69.50
185.00
81.00
124.00
84.00
344 Starr King...................... 511
23.00
19.00
26.00
16.50
85.00
345 Brentwood........................ 71
10.00
11.55
5.00
346 Palo Alto......................... 451
48.25
13.00
8.75
347 McKinley......................... 299
348 San Bernardino.............. 495 102.00
63.50
62.54 120.00
65.50
349 Sequoia................ _ .......... 857 114.00 109.00
82.50 208.00
45.75
351 Palestine........................... 484
15.00
352 Sunset................................ 367
19.00
57.00
17.00
24.50 184.25

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MemberNo.
Name
ship
353 Pinole...,_..........._............. 125
354 Presidio............................ 495
355 Hollywood......................- 717
356 Mill Valley...................... 299
357 Buena Park..................... 121
358 Golden State.................... 782
359 Loyalton............................ 71
360 San Francisco................. 334
361 Fort Bragg..........,........... 93
362 Charity.............................. 109
363 Berkeley............................ 488
365 Willits............................... 126
366 Las Palmas...................... 625
367 South Pasadena............. 459
368 Unity................................. 354
369 Ocean Park ..................... 309
370 Amity................................ 451
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie 364
372 Gardena ............................ 150
. 373 West Los Angeles...... 194
374 Jewel.. ............................... 128
375 Richmond ......................... 542
376 Francis Drake................ 189
377 Artesia................_ ........... 77
378 Mizpah.............................. 338
379 Fillmore............................ 150
380 Huntington Beach.......... · 243
381 Oceanside......................... 116
382 Highland Park............... 415
383 Orosi................................. 81
384 El Centro........................ 285
385 Dinuba............................... 170
387 Coalinga............ ~............... 251
388 Parnassus......................... 621
389 Palos Verdes ................... 522
390 Imperial............................ 68
391 East Belt......................... 63
392 West Lake....................... 939
393 Balder............................... 456
394 University........................ 476
395 Turlock............................. 182
. 396 Apollo................................ 352
397 Rising Light.................... 540
399 Fraternity......................... 368
400 Burlingame....................... 388
401 Bay View......................... 307
402 Brawley....- ...................... 119
403 Yerba Buena................... 439
404 Glendora........................... 91
405 Moneta.............................. 617
406 Burbank...............:............ 281
407 La Mesa........................... 147

1938
15.00
64.50
30.00
31.50
11.00
186.00

1939
15.00
71:00
26.00
33.00
23.00
130.00
4.75
65.00

8.50
6.00

45.00

5.00
73.00
44.00
9.00

122.35
72.50
57.00
198.00

433.00
14.00
165.13

364.50
28.00
105.00
6.00
157.00
129.50
8.25
36.00
47,00
44.60

275.50
2.00
25.00
42.00
3.00
8.50
46.00
20.00

81.00
15.50
411.65
80.50
44.50
15.00
25.50
7.50
17.00
132.00
23.00
10.00
170.81
42.00
13.95
80.00

77.00
19.00
38.50
30.00
101.00
30.85
128.00
15.50
254.60
62.50
62.00
19.50
24.00
42.50
5.00
68.00
2.00
127.56
22.00
111.00
20.07
15.81

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1940
15.00
58.00
12.00
49.75
6.00
109.00
2.00
28.00

1941
15.00
10.00
13.00
65.20
14.00
111.25
12.00
60.50

1942
15.00
54.50
47.00
100.50
9.00
278.50
4.00
64.65

54.00

22.00
146.50

268.00
219.00
66.00
79.16
41.50
405.50
90.00
62.00
7.00
43.50
31.00
6.35
138.75
57.00
45.75

9·2.50
394.00
26.50
. 62.00
41.50
597.00
46.00
61.00
. 10.00
122.00
41.50
44.20
421.00
67.50

67.00 1047.00
10.00
7.00
26.50
53.50

43.00
16.00
5.00
10.00
66.00
44.50
86.83
13.25
8.50
365.20
33.00

38.00
190.00
50.00
82.50
11.00
272.00
80.50
50.00
10.00
138.50
107.77
57.50
80.50

26.00
85.14
7.50
12.00
330.55
56.00
17.00
54.50
125.10
110.00
157.61
4.00
70.00
144.00
25.00

43.05
51.75
8.00
5.50
167.50
44.00
82.50
20.00
61.00
153.87
33.50
80.50
12.00
1'57.42

214.00

74.37
20.00
62.00
5.00
10.00
261.50
4.00
16.00
20.80
20.50
91.00
10.00

289.

MemberNo.
Name
ship
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
408 Sierra Madre.................. 80
72.00
2.00
20.00
409 Honolulu........................... 224 247.00 238.00
244.00 208.50 305.00
410 Charter Roc.k .................. 362
13.00
73.00
60.00
49.00
64.00
411 Perris................................ 75
25.00
31.00
10.00
412 Calexico............................ 129
5.00
413 Waucoba ........................... 42
16.00
15.00
8.00
414 Arlington.......................... 298 112.00 122.00
115.50 104.00 174.00
415 Silver Trowel................. 298
97.00
30.00
73.00
93.25
416 Lindsay............................. 145
19.00
42.00
9.00
8.00
19.50
417 Clovis................................ 242
15.00
18.50
6.00
418 Elysian .............................. 411
147.50 225.00 126.00
60.50 157.50
419 Upland.......:....................... 134
2.00
3.50
420 Kerman ............................. 50
7.00
4.50
1.05
17.00
421 Inglewood......................... 297
65.00
40.25
56.00
76.00
422 Eagle Rock. ..................... 253
84.50
40.00
30.50
51.50
46.50
423 York. ................................. 176
22.18
28.42
33.51
47.94
56.31
424 Exeter..,......... .'.................. 153
82.50 142.00 138.50 166.00 175.00
425 Holtville........................... 79
45.60
41.50
27.50
426 Midway............................. 337
12.50
90.50
28.45
58.11
29.97
427 Chino Valley ................... 57
2.50
2.00
428 San Dimas............"........... 103
25.00
5.00
-40.00
429 Pittsburg................-····- 149
6.67
430 Mc Cloud........................... 102 133.25
120.73 139.00
97.17
69.00
431 Alpha .................:................. 383
26.00
29.00
10.00
12.00
433 Hammonton..................... 66
25.00
32.00
39.00
38.30
434 Maricopa.........................• 150
41.85
33.50
56.65
37.64
3.00
435 Fairmount....- ................. 477
44.00
40.65
19.10
12.10
18.90
436 Claremont......................... 93
5.00
4.00
9.35
437 Lancaster.....................__ 115
46.00
27.00
66.50
438 Acacia............................... 61
69.00
34.00
31.00
70.00
63.50
439 Tyria!l............................... 93
17.00
17.00
29.00
19.00
32.75
440 Standard........................... 285
8.50
4.50
25.50
15.50
42.75
441 Coronado.......................... 175
21.00
6.00
10.00
14.50
442 Blackmer.......................... 503
54.00 175.25 105.50
90.00
96.00
443 Schofield........................... 198
24.00
66.10
75.00
55.75
61.75
444 Carpinteria....................... 76
33.50
91.56
38.15
25.00
445 Wilshire................- ......... 508
38.00
46.00 147.00
27.00
13.50
446 La Puente......................... 67
16.00
447 Torrance........................... 198
33.50
57.00
50.00
28.35
35.00
448 Mount Diablo................. 153
8.50
7.00
15.50
13.00
20.00
449 Park.................................. 408
21.50
7.50
17.00
9.00
24.00
450 Van Nuys........................ 264
66.50
25.00
29.50
451 Montebello....................... 235
29.00
16.00
68.38
48.00
44.00
452 San Pasqual..................... 336
4.00
118.00
453 Bethlehem:........................ 292
60.00
93.50
85.50
71.50 105.00
454 Crocker............................. 288
17.50
10.00
3.00
5.00
6.25
455 .Golden West ...,................ 445
46.50
47.00
457 Ramona............................. 205
29.50
30.00
7.00
458 Henry S. Orme.............. 511
72.50
43.00
23.00
107.75
166.75
459 Riverbank...................... ~.. 80
9.00
7.00
15.00
460 Mount Oso.....'................. 199
14.00
5.00 . 10.00
11.00
461 Argonaut.......................... 344
38.00
37.00
27.00
52.00

101.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

290

291

fROCEEDINGS OF THE

Membership
Name
No.
462 Paul Revere....._............. 441
463 Morgan Hill.......:........... 97
464 Alta Vista........,............... 270
465 Center............~····-············· 338
466 Libertas...............~............ 253
467 Culver City............•........ 185
468 Rockridge..........·······-······ 353
84
469 Yorba Linda....................
Lincoln..............................
256
470

1938
17.50
25.05
138.50
18.00
76.00
18.00
13.00
20.00

1942
1941
1940
83.50
58.95
43.11
56.25
11.88
24.71
16.09
2.30
13.00
26.33
44.00
47.25
29.00
40.45
31.00
78.00
102.21
56.50
68.90
43.00
27.00
136.50
22.50
2.00
4.50
16.00
29.00
15.00
23.50
315.00
284.50
253.00
324.50
38.46
20.66
83.46
800.00 268.00 220.00 144.00

1939

471 Delta.....................·-····-··· 298
275.00
472 Maui........---···············-····· 130
43
·Blythe
............................
..
473
19.40
12.50
193
474 Victory....·-·····-················
63.00 256.50
94.00
130.40
354
America_
..........................
475
19.50
17.00
21.50
25.00
85
19.00
476 Coachella....- ·-··················
25.56
48.11
116
41.00
477 Temblor............................
47.64
15.00
4.00
12.00
478 Thousand Oaks.............. 310
11.50
479 Golden Rule.................... 367
13.31
4.00
7.00
480 Fellowship.......:................ 196
19.50
17.00
145.00
481 Mt. Davidson.................. 280
40.00
40.00
45.00
21.00
482 Clarence F. Smith........ 250
156.35 202.83 203.72
118.61
115.11
18.00
483 Bell..................................- 218
29.00
27.50
24.00
484 Albert Pike..................... 197
62
485 Chowchilla......................•
117.6,4 100.35
50.00
35.75
6.00
36.00
486 Caledonia..........·-·········-·· 204
32.25
26.50
31.00
17.00
487 Vallejo.............................. 230
35.50
488 Patterson...........,:............. 63
31 . 50
9.00
20.00
7.00
254
489 East Bay......................._.
490 ' Corcoran..........,................. 72
9.50 .
51.50
10.00
172 .
9.75
491 Woodstock. .......................
8.50
29.50
492 Ga·rvanza........................... 159
30.50
25.00
26.00
13.00
61
12.70
493 Atascadero.......................
47.50
17.00
30.50
10.00
354
12.00
5.00
494 Acorn....................•·-········ 309
3.00
2.00
24.. 00
495 Lebanon.:..........................
59
496 Riverdale ..........................
3.50
s.oo
306
54.50
497 Fremont................c•••••••••••
59.00
36.50
122
50.Q~.
498 Stockton............................
12.00
76.00
499 Capital City..................... 203
2.00
5.00
7.00
137
10.50
500 Roosevelt..........................
24.20
501 Westwood .....--•'-'······-······ 196
502 Harbor.:..........:.....•........... 164
26.80
92
30.00
58.50
503 Point.....~················-··········
56.68
28.00
52.00
504 Seaside.'-··························· 290
17.50
16.-00
943.30
505 Silver Cord...................... 291
854.00 884.80 555.30 995.90
38.00
506 Mount Olive.................... 610
18.00
35.00
61.00
40.00
168
25.00
4.00
507 El Segundo...·-····-····~····
5.00
5.00
so
38.00
508 Joppa .................................
10.25
23.00
208
509 Benjamin Franklin ........
80
10.00
510 Cupert.ino..........................
8.75
113
50.00
511 SunnyY~le.........................
20.00
40.96
180
17.00
512 Palms~·l:r;·...........................
9.00
7.50
23.20
513 · Cahuenga.......................... 299

No.
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566

MemberName
ship
Anronne............................ 323
Vermont Square...·-······ 347
Taft................- ................. 173
Mount Vernon................ 202
La Jolla.........................:.. 118
Euclid.........·-··················· 248
I omc
. ................................... 303
Piedmont.......................... 216
sunnse.,
. .........................._ 191
Bellflower....................-... 169
Catalina Island............... 101
George Washington...... 269
Bay City.......................... 209
Covenant........................... 253
Beverly Hills................... 233
Loyalty.............................. 240
Sun Garden..................... 363
Alexandria....................... 117
Smyrna...·-······················ 54
Azure................................. l7l
Forest Hill....................... 96
Alexander Hamilton..... 134
Seal Rock. ...............·-····- 129
Utopia...............:..............'-·· 468
Ascot..............................•.. 214
Belvedere.......................... 194
Queen Beach................... 11 3
Henry Morse Stephens 279
Lankershim...................... 267
Signal......................·-···-·· 260
Glendale............................ 317
Jonathan ........................... 152
San Gabriel..................... 138
Ar~adia............................. 122
Tri~ngle....................:....... 109

Justice....._........................ 154
Seaport............................• 159
Lakeshore......:.................. 176
Semper Virens....~........... 138
Educator........................... 2 49
White Pine..................... 78
Fairfax................·-·········· 112
Hermosa........................... 116
Point Firmin................... 2 52
Craftsman......................- 217
Plymouth.......................... 191
East San Diego.............. 294
Pyramid................'......·- ··· 189
South •Park..................... 300
Foothill............................. 245
West Adams.................... 201
James A. Garfield......... 142

1938
10.00
48.42
50.00
107.60
5.00
5.00
95.30
10.00
8.00
5.00
31.50
2.00
71.50
100.00
50.50
24.50
16.00

1939
.74,11
32.00
65.50
21.00
99.00
49.00
7.50
75.00
30.00
109.50
6.25
31.00
44.00
90.50
55.00

1941
10.00
71.16
90.36
49.44
10.00
59.83
66.55
15.00
10.00
101.80.
49.40
32.00
20.00
5.00
49.00
40.00
16.00
60.00
2.00
19.50
5.00
98.00
31.00

21.00
18.00
8.00
28.00
5.00
10.00
21.50
' 15. 52
5.00
8.00
36.05
17.50
17.00
98.50
5.00
23.00

123.50
26.00
143.24
73.00
10.00
40.00
' 62.00
29.00
76.00

27.00

18.50

' 7.00
132.50

18.30
2.00
316.50

8.00
205.35

7.50

104.13
36.00
21.00

76.64
24.00
68.00

105.00
34.75
14.50

18.75
40.00
21.00

37.50
10.05
7.00
68.50
17.00

1942 :
242.50
306.75

18.25
54.68
76.50
51.00
118.50
27.00

. 6:00
58.00
14.00
59.20
36.50
15.50
2.00

1940

77.50
50.00
30.20
27.50
6.29
11.00

30.45
'.•

'27.00
85.00
' 8:00
3.00
'26~00

49.50
28.00
" 7.00
27.50
92.00
21.50
59'.53
298.85
37.25
2.00
' 10.00
32.00
143.50
11.50
' 40.50
'·

33.50
71.00
15.00
18.00
9.00
10.00
24.50
18.00

15.00
39.00
19.27
6.50
63.00
45.10
10.00
18.00
12.00
74.50
20.50
2.00
46.00

10.10
87.00
19.00
10.00
7.00
9.70
80.10
17.00
18.50
25.00
27.00
27.02
33.50
25.38
8.75
19.50
137.50
12.50
20.00

42.65
138.00
14.50
3.50
18.75
16.57
47.10
43.50

25.00
113.50
43.00
20.50
42.00
63.58
33.00
39.42
640.20
36.25
56.23
10.00

292

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MemberName
ship
No.
567 Searchlight..........- ........... .304
568 Park Boulevard.:............ 222
569 Chateau Thierry............ 201
570 Military Service............. 249
571 Francis K. Shattuck...... 170
572 James Madison............... 157
573 Hillcrest...·-····················· 56
574 S. W. Hackett................. 181
575 Fort Crook...................... 81
576 El Cajon Valley...·-····- 59
577 Sunnyside......................... 244
578 Progressive...................... 282
579 Warren G. Harding...... 172
580 Santa Maria.................... 48
581 Security................ _.......... 205
582 Rialto............................-... ~5
583 Wasco..................·.............. 143
584 Harding..:.............- ....- .... 149
585 Manchester....................... 225
586 Garden Grove.................. 89
587 Valley Forge................_ 202
588 El Sereno................- ····-· 179
589 Kauai. ................................ 96
. ............................
.
131
590 Compass
591 Escalon.............................. 76
592 Tujunga...............:............ ~~j
593 All States.........................
594 Service....- ...···················- 306
595 Alexander Graham Bell. 171
'596 Guardian............................ 260
598 Pearl Harbor.................. 226
599 Carmelita.......................... 185
600 Lynwood........................... 129
601 Grizzly.............·--·--- 95
602 Melrose............................. 123
603 Dimond................-........... 182 .
604 Jubilee............................... 164
605 Glassell Park................- 229
607 Sojourner....- ................... 78
608 Granada................- .......... 297
609 'Provident......................_ 165
610 Elmhurst......................- ... 129
611 Canoga............•.........- ...... 111
612 Temple City..................... 116
613 Three Pillars....- - ·········- 191
614 Larchmont........................ 202
615 Hemet............................... 90
616 R. E . Dolley.................. 77
617 Big Bear........................... 52
618 Southland.....:.................... 175
619 Neptune................:·····-·'" 117
620 Point Loma..................... 107
621 The Gardens.................... 199

1938
12.00
33.50

1939
13.00
15.50

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFOR NIA

1!140
77.00

1941
15.00

44.25

9.50

85.00

10.00
54.00

4.30
35.00
21.75
64.00
15.00
12.00
40.75
44.50

6.55

5.00
51.00

42.00
21.50

73.75
8.25
2.00
. 54.00
45.00
10.67
28.00
53.00
12.50

2.00
41.06
48.00
10.00 .
53.50
13.00
5.00

47.00
63.56

13.00
41.50
5.60
15.00

28.50
134.50
5.30
12.00

66.50
6.64
16.00

376.00
8.00
27.00
29.00
95.00
11.00
90.00
10.00
152.00

294.00

259.50

243.50

21.00
37.45
43.75
140.00
108.00
23.00
170.00
70.00
4.00
24.00

19.00
38.66
46.00
109.00
116.00
22.00
179.15
31.00

21.00
33.00
77.82
118.00
121.60
26.00
270.40
79.61
17.00

52.00
31.50
23.00
10.00

8.00
6.00
25.50
4.50
11.00
24.00
25.00
39.50
37.00
12.5Q
105.50
17.00
10.50

5.00
20.81
70.50
16.00
61.82
8.00
32.00
7.00
52.55

45.50

68.50
22.00
46.00
23.65
42.05
43.56
43.50
64.50
29.20
61.50
21.50
21.33

67.00
23.14
25.51
7.40
36.50
59.58
25.00
105.14
31~ 50

28.80
30.00
20.50
61.50
10.00
102.88
36.00
35.00
20.00
13.00

2.00
15.00
55.50
40.50
·40.00

15.00
50.00
45.00
42.00

5.00
18.50
55.00
69.00
37.00
· 27.20

5.00
9.00
156.00
43.45
57.50
15.00

1942

61.00
43.50
30.00
54.00
34.40
153.50
5.05
7.00

25.00
65.00
97.50
128.00
136.25
44.00
147.00
41.00
41.95
62.00
31.33
66.00
48.56
123.25
23.00
49.75
11.00
63.00
15.75
9.00
27.05
26.50
11.75
105.00
60.50
57.5()
30.00

293 .

MemberNo.
Name
ship
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942 .
622 Atwater............................ 170
21.00
14.50
19.37
28.10
47.25
623 Menorah........................... 342 186.00
l 12.50 124.50 309.50
50.00
624 For ti tude.................:....:.... 132
59.50
70.75
63.00
94.00
39.50
625 Angeles Mesa................. 318
42.00
5.00 300.00 391.75 443.50
626 Chula Vista..................... 105
17.00
18.00
627 Lamanda Park..........-.... 106
50.00 102.25 104.00
42.00
628 Truth .............................. 164
15.00
5.00
11.00
83.58
629 Fairview........................... 104
23.00
75.00
36.00
69.47 117.65
630 Ingleside........................... 96
3.00
8.00
5.00
53.00
631 Benevolence...................... 196 101.72
54.16
79.87 104.98
632 Normal Heights.............. 182
34.00
50.00 100.00 129.00
633 Poinsettia......................... 310
47.00 111.75 174.00 173.68 120.35
634 Victorville........................ 82
11.00
26.00
8.00
20.00
635 Riverside.......................... 167
25.00
9.00
19.00
32.00
36.50
636 John Marshall................ 96
44.50
29.00
11.00
25.75
637 Palisades........................... 197
91.40 179.11 188.85 125.45 143.77
638 Indian Rock.................... 120
11.05
21.09
3.00
14.00
16.40
639 C!>mposite......................... 148
88.50
21.00
35.00
47.50
640 Veritas......................- ...._ 85
15.00
641 James A. Foshay............ 103
48.06
20.00
20.00
25.00
25.00 '
642 La Cumbre...................... 91
65.62
25.00
643 Alta Loma ....................... 230
41.00
45.00
29.00
27.00
644 Lomita............................... 91
12.50
7.50
23.00
19.25
645 A. F. E. Irwin................ 135
73.50
39.00 104.00 155.50
646 Metropolitan .................... 77
20.00
26.00
22.75
36.00
25.00
647 Hawthorne....................... 65
65.90
648 Damascus......................-. 217
18.00
24.72
21.00
29.05
39.50
649 Florence.........:.................. 204
22.50
25.65 106.00 182.64
650 La Brea..........- ..........-.... 190
24.00
43.00
50.00 .
9.00
11.00
651 Menlo Park. .................... 80
13.00
12.50
16.00
12.00
8.50
652 Crescenta Valley.......... _ 121
34.58
52.50
54.50
69.50
59.00
653 Fontana............................. 81
654 Jordan ............................_. 137
4.00
4.00
9.60
8.00
28.10
655 Monte Vista.................... 257
35.00
27.00
54.26
25.00
36.00
656 Citro!................................. 118
26.00
3.00
35.50
9.41
21.34
657 John D. Spreckels......... 306
69.00
48.50
41.00
41.50
41.50
658 Livingston........................ 64
13.02
45.07
20.50
17.00
24.10
659 La Habra......................... 81
660 Baldwin Park................. 61
50.00
50.00
50.00
661 ·Malta ................................. 109
14.00
14.50
28.30
77.00
64.50
662 Henry Knox ..:................ 246
279.00 261.40 250.00 465.25
667.50
663 Ojai.................................... 53
665 Kaweah ............................. 64
15.50
41.00
16.50
18.00
666 Reseda............................... 84
19.00
43.60
21'1.75
19.00
28.50 .
667 Meridian........................... 173
46.25
42.85
26.00
45.00
668 San Gorgonio.................. 90
69.00
6.00
7.00
669 John P. Jarman.............. I15
17.85
7.30
9.25
14.58
670 Greenleaf...,...................... 204
12.75
16.00
27.00
72.50
70.00
671 San Clemente.................
80.20
30
672 Laguna Beach................. 71
10.00
9.00
19.00
23.00
24.00
673 Far West......................... 151
14.00
674 Los Cerritos.................... 113
5.00
20.00
20.00
45.03
58.00

294

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MemberName
No.
1942
1941
1940
1939
1938
ship
78.82
40.50
48.73
32.50
22.75
675 Modesto............................ 170
2.00
6.00
2.50
676 Willow Glen ....·-············ 107
60.75
42.50
25.00
62.00
677 Liberal Arts.................... 91
26.00
47.07
37.50
61.00
29.50
678 Altadena ........................... 184
6.00
679 Canby's Cross................. 58
16.50
18.75
5.00
5.00
680 Carmel............................... 58
30.00 .
45.00
681 Dos Palos...................... 42
81.20
21.11
682 Barstow ........................ 56
683 Redwood Empire........ 21
684 Trona.............................. 35
.
53.25
·76.50
Total me~ership .............. 125,84J
Total number of Lodges .... 582
Total contributors .. 1938, 4,600; 1939, 6,500; 1940, 6,357; 1941, 6,623;
1942, 8,066.
1941 5.25%
Per cent 1938 3.61 %
1942 6.41%
1939 5.20%
1940 5.02%
Report of Auditors

To the Endowment Fund Committee, Masonic Homes of California:
We have audited the accounts and records of the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes of California for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1942, and present herewith the following statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements (other than
Luckenbach Fund, Exhibit C), for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1942.
Exhibit B: Summary statement of Endowment Fund ·assets, as at July
31, 1942.
Schedule B-1: List of regular Endowment Fund securities on hand,
acquired prior to July 31, 1941.
Schedule B-2: List of regular Endowment Fund securities on hand,
additions to fund fiscal year 1941-42.
Schedule B-3: Statement of securities redeemed and sold.
Exhibit C: Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund as at July
31, 1942.
Exhibit D: Statements of Endowment Fund income and capital ac. counts.
Securities (Schedules B-1 and · B-2) : ·
All of the corporation stocks and the irrigation district bonds were
received by donation or bequest; other bonds so received are designated by
the letter "D." All donated securities are listed at market value at the time
of donation, with the exception that where the value is uncertain because
of its being an unlisted or a closely held security, then in that case a nominal
value of $1.00 is listed for the purpose of record. Insurance policies are
listed at a nominal value of $1.00 for conservative purposes.
Bonds purchased are recorded at cost. As most bonds carry a heavy
premium, an amortization schedule is provided in order to reduce to a minimum any loss to the Endowment Fund when the bonds are redeemed.

295

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Increase of fund:
The total assets of the Permanent Endowment Fund, which includes
the regular fund and the Luckenbach Fund, show the following increase for
the fiscal year:
Amount of fund, July 31, 1942..............................................$1,366,232.17
Amount of fund, July 31, 1941..........•................................... 1,317,715.99
Increase during the current year ........ :.........................$

48,516.18

Accounted for as follows:
Cash donations and bequests ................................................ $
Securities by donations and bequests ............................... ,
Net profits on securities .sold and redeemed ................... .

48,256.63
2.00
257.55

Net increase, as abo'Ve ....................................................$

48,516.18

The Endowment Fund income earned during the fiscal year and transferred to the Masonic Homes General Fund amounted to $39,812.44.
Other Endowment Funds:
The following funds, which will eventually become part of the Endowment Fund, are recorded in the Masonic Homes General Fund records in
order to simplify the payments on the annuity contracts which each fu'nd
carries. A full report on these funds is included in our report on the Masonic
Homes General Fund.
Charles N. Flint Annuity
Charles N. Flint Annuity-Morgan
George H. and Harriet C. Wadleigh Annuity
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity
Certain real estate and notes ·receivable arising' from sales thereof are
being carried in the General Fund books pending sale of real estate and
collection of notes. Thereupon cash proceeds will be transferred t~ the
Endowment Fund. Such amounts are reported in the General Fund Masonic
Homes report as on hand as at July 31, 1942.
.
·
Certificate:
We certify that, in our opm1on, the attached statements set forth the
condition of the Permanent Endowment Fund as at July 31 1942 with the
exception as to the stated or book value of the securities on' hand' and that
a proper accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursem~nts.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB,
By FLOYD T. WEBB •
Secretary's Report
Exhibit A
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements (Not Including "Luckenbach Fund" Endowment Account, Exhibit C) for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
Cash in ~anks, August 1, 1941.......................................................... .'..... $ 48,625.02
Receipts:
Donations from Lodges .................................. $19,801.22
Donations from individuals............................
505.00
Bequests .............................................................. 26,840.54
Donated real estate sold................. :................ 1,109.87 $48,256.63

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

296

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Securities redeemed and sold:
(Schedule B-3)
Bonds ...•......................................................$18,279.45
5.73
Stocks ..........................................................
Building and loan associations..............
660.44
Real ·estate .............................:..................... 2,842.32

21,787.94

From Masonic Homes for annual amortization of
bond premiums ..............................................................

5,172.69

Schedule B-1

Total receipts ...................•........................................................•.......

75,217.26

Total to account for ...........................................,,,................... $123,842.28
Disbursements:
Bonds purchased ·......................................................................................

92,821 .47

Cash in banks, July 31, 1942:
·
Anglo California National Bank, savings account..$29,805.30
The San Francisco Bank, savings account.............. 1,215.51 $ 31,020.81
Exhibit B
Summary Statement of Endowment Fund Assets as at July 31, 1942
Regular fund:
Cash in savings accounts:
Anglo California National Bank..................c•••$
The San Francisco Bank....................................

297

29,805.30
1,215.51 $

31,020.81

Securities (at book value) :
(For details refer to Schedules B-1 and B-2)
Bonds ...........................................................,..........$1,269,879.70
19,182.75
Stocks ......................................................................
Miscellaneous .....,..................................................
2,184.42
Total book value............................................$1,291,246.87
Deduct reserve for amortization of bond
16,924.19
premiums ............................................................
Net book value of sec;urities..............................................

1,274,322.68

Total regular Endowment Fund cash and securities................ $1,305,343.49
Add special fund, John and Lena Luckenbach (reference
Schedule C) ··················································································
60,888.68
Grand total Endowment Fund, July 31, 1942_.............;.............. $1 ,366,232.17
Notes: (a) Funds received and held in suspense pending final fulfillment
of annuity contracts are not included in the above totals. Refer to
comments for further information.
(b) Refer to Schedules B-2 and B-3 for acquisition and disposition
of securities during the year.

List of Regular Endowment Fund Securities July 31, 1942
Bonds (acquired prior to July 31, 1941):
Book
("D" indicates bonds received by donations)
Valile
$ 25,000 Alabama, State of, refunding 3~%, 1964........................$ 27,957.50
2,000 Alexandria Hotel Realty Corp. 6Y,%, 1947.............. *D
l.00
5,622.74
5,000 . Arcata, City of, Waterworks 4%, 1960-1........................
1,000 Beverly Hills, City Hall 4Y, %, 1968................................
1,269.37
2,000 Beverly Hills, City Hall 5%, 1968......•.............................
2,731.12
7,000 Beverly Hills, School District 5%, 1958-67....................
9,244.46
5,000 Bishop Union High School District'5%, 1949..............
5,159.35
5,000 Burbank High School District 5%, 1950........................
5,749.05
3,000 Central Public Utilities Corp., 20-year income SY,%,
232.50
1952 ................................................................................*D
5,000 Chicago Board of Education 4~%, 1954........................
6,143.20
7,142.00
5,000 East Bay Municipal Utility District 5%, 1965-70-1-4..
15,000 El Segundo High School District 5%, 1952-53............ 16,015.08
18,000 Eureka, City .of, Water 4%, 1961-2-4-7.......................... 22,012.75
5,000 Fort Bragg Union High School District 4Y,%, 1951.:..
5,668.85
·s,ooo Glendale, City of, Sewer 5%, 1962.......................;............ 6,449.95
40,000 Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District 4~%, 195961-65-67-71 ........................•............,.................................... 47,686.67
46,000 Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District 3 ~%, 195967-69-70-71 .............................~ ............................................ 53,462.60
2,000 Huntington Park High School District 5%, 1935 ........
2,540.04
1,000 Huntington Park School District 5%, 1956....................
1,288.43
1,500 Jonathan Club Liquidating Debenture, 1952.............. *D
1,500.00
15,000 Knoxville, City of, Water 4Y,%, 1961.............................. 16,142.19
3,000 Long Beach, City of, Park 4%, 1961-65.......................... . 3,303.93
10,000 Los Angeles, City of, Electric Plant 5%, 1961.............. 11,112.50
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Fire Protection 4Y, %, 1962......
1,245.88
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, Harbor 4~%, 1960....................
5,471.55
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Incinerator 4Y,%, 1963..............
1,255.90
27,000 Los Angeles, City High School District 5%, 1951-5960-63 .................................:.................................................. 29,976.56
24,000 Los Angeles, City School District 5%, 1961-3-4........ 28,275.73
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, Sewer 4~%, 1965........................
5,512.05
10,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water 4}~%, 1965...................... 10,254.00
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water 4)4 %, 1968................ ~ .....
1,246.85
1,000 Madison Inc., Cumulative Income Bond, 1957.......... D
l.00
62,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern California
4%, 1957-58-65-83 .............................................................. 68,257.89
20,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern California
4)4%, 1975 ·········································································· 22,601.66
1,000 New York Athletic Club, Second Mortgage Bond,
1938 ............................. :....................................................*D
1.00
25,000 New York City Rapid Transit 3)4%, 1954...................., 25,343.75
16,000 New York City Rapid Transit 4%, 1977........................ 19,040.00
9,000 Ne!\' York City, various 4%, 1977................................... . 10,710.00
30,000 New York Park, Westchester County 4%, 1975............ 38,153.10
10,000 Oakland, 'City of, Harbor 4Y,%, 1966.............................. 13,456.20
15,000 Oakland, City of, Sewer 40 %, 1961~2-3-4-5 ................... 19,765.96
15,000 Oxnard Harbor District 3Y,o/o, 1963-5.....~........................ 16,338.73
5,000 Pasadena, City of, Water 4~ %, 1965.....•...•....................
6,687.85
5,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water 4Y,%, 1963......
6,193.ll

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l,294.2S
1,000 Paso Robles, Union High School S%, 1963....................
13,000 Pawtucket, R. I. High School 3%, 19S7...,.................... 13,S46.78
2,084.12
2,000 Pawtucket, R. I. Highway 3%, 19S7..............................
10,000 Pawtucket, R. I. Water Plant 3%, 19S7........................ 10,420.60
S,9S0.66
S,000 Reando Beach, City of, 4%, 1966....................•.. _...........
2,000.00
2,000 Richmond, City of, Improvements 5%, 1949-S2............
2,613.40
2,000 Sacramento, City of, Filtration Plant 40 %, 1966........
6,38S.S3
S,000 San Buenaventura, City of, Water So/o, 19S6-7-8-9-60..
6,832.40
S,000 . San Diego, El Capitan Dam S%, 1964....................;.......
San Francisco, City and County of:
City Hall S%, 19S6-S7-60.................................................. lS,000.00
lS,000
40,000
Retch Hetchy, .S~%, 19S4-SS.....................................:...• 42,847.49
6,898.7S
S,000
Retch Hetchy So/o, 1966....................................................
Retch Hetchy 40 %, 1967-71-72-73-76.......................... S3,303.6,S
40,000
2S,OOO
Spring Valley 4Y,%, 1966-67-69-70...:............................ 33,301.Sb
1,612.SO
1,612.SO Santa Barbara, City of, Street 40 %, 1942-3-4............
1,000 Santa Barbara, City of, Water Works Tunnel 4Y,%,
1,000.00
1948 ......................................................................................
6,987.68
S,000 Santa Cruz, City of, Water So/o, 1962-3............................
10,000 Santa Monica, City of, Breakwater S%, 1970................ 14,890.69
6,122.96
S,000 Santa Monica, City of, Cloverfield 4~%, 1963..............
6,621.39
S,000 Santa Monica High School District S%, 19S9................
6,494.63
S,000 Santa Monica School District So/o, 1960-61......................
2S,OOO Seattle, City of, Light and Power 3Y,%, 19S2-S3.......... 24,937.SO
S,000 'Stockton, City of, Harbor 4Y,o/o, 1959-..............................
S,307.80
30,000 U. S. Treasury Defense Bonds, Series G, 2Y,o/o, 19S3.. 30,000.00
238,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds 20 %, 1954-S8............................... 242,S46.25
100 University Masonic Temple Association, second mortgage (registered) 3%, 1949.............................................
100.00
62S Upland, City of, Improvements 6%, 1942.................... D
62S.OO
30,000 Vernon, City of, Light and Power 4~%, 1961~3 .......... 37,608.6S
Irrigation district bonds (donated):
1,000 Imperial Irrigation District 40 %, 1983............................
1,000.00·
SOO Terra Bella Irrigation District 4%, 1979............... :..........
S00.00

Shares
Book.Value
10
Healdsburg General Hospital, Inc.,· preferred..............*
10.00
Home Service Corporation, Class B, common..............*
1.00
120
10
Masonic Temple Association of California....-..................
1.00
S9
McCormack Lumber Co., Chas. R., common ................*
10.00
4/ 10 M. Nirenberg Sons, Inc., Class A. ................................... *
LOO
6/10 M. Nirenberg Sons, Inc., Class B ....................................*
LOO
lS
Oklahoma Natural Gas Co., 3% preferred.:......................
43L2S
Oklahoma Natural Gas Co., common................................
160
LOO
482
Pacific Gas and Electric Co., 6% preferred.................... 13,17S.OO
96
2,430.00
Pacific Gas and Electric Co., SY, preferred....................
17
3S7.00
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., common........................................
10
Peoples Light and Power Corporation, preferred........ *
LOO
10
Schulte United Sc to $1.00 Stores, Inc., preferre~L. .....*
.2.00
2S
l.00
Skaggs Springs Oil and Gas Company.......................... *
S62
Sotoyome Vineyards ........................:...................................*
LOO
4
Southern California Edison Co., SY,% preferred..........
100.00
4
Southern California Edison Co., common ......................
80.00
10
Splitdorf Electrical Company ............................................*
1.00
14
Standard Public Service Co., preferred............................*
LOO
1
Sun Drug Company, preferred...............................~.......... *
1.00
100.00
1
Taft Masonic Temple Association ....................................*
2
United Stores Corporation, common................................*
1.00
Universal Chain Theaters, common ..................................*
10
1.00

298

Total bonds (acquired prior to July 31, 1941) ............$1,177,0S8.23
·(•)Note: Not paying interest.
Stocks (donated) :
Book
Shares
Value
s Altadena Masonic Temple Building Association..........$
S0.00
10
American Telephone and Telegraph Co...........................
1,066.00
8
Bakersfield Masonic Temp.le Association...~ .................... *
8.00
2
Bancamerica Blair Corporation ..........................................*
1.00
43
California Ice & Cold Storage Co., Class A ....................
193.SO
21
California Ice & Cold Storage Co., Class B..................*
10.SO
lS
Central Public Service Co., preferred..............................*
82S.OO
60
Central Public Utilities Corporation, common ..............*
12.SO
20
Central Public Utilities Corporation, preferred............*
40.00
100
Consolidated Rock Products, preferred.......................,..*
1.00
5
Eastern Public Service Corporation, Class A, common ............................................................................:.......*
1.00
20
First National Trust & Savings Bank of San Diego,
preferred ..............................................................................
2SO.OO
76/100 Gardena Liquidating Corporation, common....................*
1.00
3
Geyser Development Co., preferred..................................*
lS.00

Total stocks (acquired prior to July 31, 1941) ............$

299

19,182.7S

(*)Note: No dividends received.
Miscellaneous Securities, Etc.
Fraternal Death Certificates :*
Certificates
3 Aahmes Temple Shrine Association at $100 par..$ 3.00
·1 Aahmes Temple Shrine Association at $ SO par.. 1.00
10 Al Malaikah Auditorium Co. at $100 par.............. 10.00
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund.................................................... 1.00
1 Masonic Temple Association of Sacramento at
$100 par ...................................................................... 1.00
Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2 .at $20 par.... 1.00 $
Insurance Policies:*
$ SOO New York Life Insurance Co.................:.................$ 1.00
2SO Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York........:..... 1.00
1000 State Life Insurance Co...................".:....~................. 1.00
1000 Independent Order of Foresters.............................. 1.00

Book
Value

17.00

4.00

Miscellaneous Items:
Certificate of deposit, $8400, Summer Lake Irrigation District....
Assignment of claim, Columbian Building and Loan Assn ...........
Assignment of claim, Pacific Coast Building and Loan Assn.*..

2SO.OO
1,76S.42
1.00

Real property (assessed value):
Arlington lot, San Diego County...........~ ........................$90.00
Lot No. 262, Los Angeles County.......:......:..................... SS.00

14S.OO

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total miscellaneous securities, etc...............................................$
(Acquired prior to July 31, 1941)

2,182.42

Total securities acquired prior to July 31; 1941..............................$1,198,423.40
(*) Note: Nominal values only for purpose of recording.
Schedule B-2
Additions to Fund 1941-42
Bonds pur-chased :
100 American Telephone and Telegraph Co., Debenture
3%, 1956 .......................................: ......................................$
25,000 Los Angeles, City of, Electric Plant 3%, 1976..............
20,000 Montecito Water District 5%, 1962-66............................
25,000 New York City Port Authority 3%, 1975........................
14,000 U. S. Treasury W.ar Bonds, Series G, 2~%, 1952........

$

Total bonds purchased..................·......................... ~ ........................$

Real Estate:
Improved lot No. 4B at Healdsburg..........:...............................
Total ,............... :... -·...,.............................,...........:.;·····-···:···'···-·$
Luckenbach Fund:
$1,000 Grant Union High School District bond.......................$

2,842.32
21,787.94
970.00

Exhibit C
Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund July 31, 1942

Book
Value

Balance in fund, July 31, 1942..............................................................$
100.00
2°6,000.00
26,815.22
25,906.25
14,000.00
92,821.47

Donations and bequests:
From Arthur Crites:
1 share Bakersfield Masonic Temple Association....................

1.00

From the estate of Mrs. Annie Gibson:
7 shares Needles Masonic Temple Association......:.................

1.00

From the estate of Joseph W. L. Griffin :
500 shares American Commonwealth Power Corporation ....
200 shares Southern Natural Gas Corporation, common ......

No value
No value

Total donations and bequests ...................,..........................;.........$

2.00

-----

----Total acquisitions for the year 1941-42................................., ............$ 92,82,3.47
----Total securities on hand, July 31, 1942..............................................$1,291,246.87
Schedule B-3
Statement of Securities Redeemed and Sold During the Fiscal
Year Ended July 31, 1942
Net
Regular Endowment Fund
Proceeds
Bonds
$14,000 Grant Union High School District....................................$ 13,580.00
3,000.00
3,000 Pacific Gas and Electric Co., matured..............................
City of street, matured............................
1,074.67
1,075 Santa Barbara
.
•
•
624·78
625 Upland, City of, matured........................................,.............
Liquidating Dividends Received:
Columbia Building and Loan Association....................._. ............
Gardena Liquidating Corporatfon .................................,..............
Pacific Coast Building and Loan Association...........:..............
Sioto Building and Loan Association (final) ............................
United States Na'tional Bank (final) ..........................................

301

311.55
3.65
120.24
225.00
5.73

60,888.68

Composition of Fund
Cash in savings account:
Anglo California National Bank..................................$

1,358.50

Securities at cost:
$ 3,000 Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District Bonds, 3~ %, .
1971 ····················'·························$ 3,423.78
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, water, 4%,
1971 .............................................. 1,167.58
8,000 Metropolitan Water District of
Southern California bonds,
4%, 1965-86 ................................ 9,060.95
15,000 New York City, various bonds,
4;4 %, 1960 ............................... ~-- 17,175.00
9,000 Northern Pacific Railway Co.
General Lien bonds 3%, 2047 7,290.00
10,000 Southern Pacific R. R. Co. First
and Refunding Mortgage
bonds 4%, 1955.......................... 10,650.00
1,000 U. S. A. Savings Defense bonds,
Series G, 2~ %, 1954................ 1,000.00
100 shares West Penn. Electric Co.
Class A stock.............................. 10,480.85
Total cost ..............................$60,248.16
Deduct reserve for amortization of bond
premiums ........................·..........................
717.98
Net book value of securities ..........................

59,530.18

Total Luckenbach Fund cash and securities, as above ................$

60,888.68

Exhibit D
Statement of .Endowment Income and Capital Accounts for the
F iscal Year Ended July 31, 1942
Income account:
Income received from Endowment Fund investments:
From regular fund ........................•...............:._........$ 42,621.38
From Luckenbach Fund..........................................
2,519.39 $ 45,140.77

303

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

302
Deduct:

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
INFORMATION

Annual amortization · of bond premiums
restored to endowment capital:
Regular fund securities ..................L••••••••••••••••••••••••• $
Luckenbach Fund secuPities ................................. .

5,172.69
155.64

5,328.33

Net income transferred to the Homes General Fund....................

$ 39,812.44

Luckenbach
Total
Capital account :
Regular
Balance August 1, 1941........................ $1,256,895.34 $60,820.65 $1,317,715.99
Additions to · funds:
From donations and bequests:
Cash (Exhibit A) ................................ $
Securities (Schedule B-2) ............... .

48,256.63
2.00

$

48,256.63
2.00

Total ............. _....................................... $

48,258.63

$

48,258.63

Profit on sales of securities:
Proceeds ................................. :............ $
Less book value ..................................

21,787.94 $
21,598.42

970.00
901.97

$

22,757.94
22,500.39

. Net profit ....................:.....................$

189.52

$

68.03

$

257.55

Total additions to funds ................ $

48,448.15

$

68.03

$

48,516.18

Balance July 31, 1942............... :.... :....... $1,305,343.49

$60,888.68

$1,366,232.17

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
During the year 1.941-42 this committee issued four quiz programs on
the subjects, (1) Masonry in California; (2) Famous Masons; (3) Masonic
Law and Custom; (4) Famous Masons Who Have Fought for the United
States. These programs were largely an experiment, to see whether the
brethren approve by use the proposed method of imparting information on
the question and answer basis. We are happy to say that, from all accounts,
the experiment proved a great success. Lodges in all parts of the grand
jurisdiction used the programs and scores of letters have been received
from Worshipful Masters expressing appreciation and commending the
venture. It would seem well to go on upon these lines and the committee
asks authorization to issue this coming year seven programs.
The committee reports progress in the preparation of a series of pamphlets designed to be used by coaches while instructing candidates in the
lectures of the three degrees. It did not seem wise to hurry the preparation
of these pamphlets, so as not to repeat the mistakes of other years. We are
gathering most valuable data from other Grand Lodges and we hope to
complete this commission during the coming year, subject to advice and
approval of the Grand Master and other Grand Lodge officers. A reprint
of the little booklet entitled Masonic Law and .Custom was had this past
year and many thousands have been sold through the Lodges. We believe
the wide dissemination of the information in this brochure is most salutary.
In these days of gas rationing and the necessary conservation of tires,
it did not seem worthwhile to issue the roster of available speakers,
authorized at the last communication of Grand Lodge. When traveling
conditions become more normal the roster will be prepared.
Of the appropriation of $500 made by Grand Lodge for the use of
this committee $415.70 has been disbursed, leaving $84.30 balance on hand.
In order to carry out the proposed program for the coming year, the committee asks Grand Lodge to appropriate $650 to cover expenses of printing,
postage and stenographer's services.
Respectfully submitted,
N. PERRY MoERDYKE,
DELEERT BERRY,
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN,
GEORGE

c. JENSEN,

RUDOLPH JENNY,·
REYNOLD

E. BLIGHT,
Committee.

The report was presented by Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, in the absence of Brother Reynold
E. Blight; chairman, and was adopted save that portion requesting an appropriation, which was referred to the Committee on
Finance .
. At 4 :45 p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until 10 :00 o'clock
Thursday morning.

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jln ~ranb JLobgt
MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 15, 1942.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 a. m., the Grand Master
presiding ..
The invocation was made by the Very Worshipful Grand
Secretary at the request of the Grand Master.
The Minutes of Wednesday's sessions were read . and
approved.
The Grand Master then presented to the brethren assembled Brother Alexander Douglas Potts, Grand Standard Bearer
of the Grand Lodge and Inspector of the 103rd Mas_onic District, with the request that Brother Potts take such time. as he
wished to report on the situation r_ela.tive to. M_aso.nry m the
Hawaiian Islands. Brother Potts, w1thm the hm1tat10ns placed
upon him by military regulations, gave. a full and complete picture of the situation in ·all our Lodges m the Islands. A resume
of the remarks of Brother Potts is presented herewith.

REPORT ON MASONRY IN THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS
Presented at the 93rd Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge of California by Alexander Douglas Potts, Grand Standard Bearer.
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren:
Yesterday afternoon when one of our Grand Masters said you had
heard from the last foreigner, he made a mistake, brethren! because I
bring the alohas from the brethren in the Hawaiian Islands. It 1s a pleasure
and a privilege for me to address you this morning. I am here only throu~h
the efforts of your Most Worshipful Grand Master ~nd our Very Worshipful Grand Secretary· and the courtesy of the Umted States that I was
privileged to visit this Grand Jurisdiction this year.
.
.
In doing so I had to make certain promises. I had to promise that if
the United Stat~s Navy brought me here,_ I would not di~~uss wi.th a?yon_e,
or with this Grand Body, anything concerning the m1.htary s1tuat10n m
the Islands that I would keep my conversation concermng Masonry only.
I made th;t promise, brethren, an~ I intend. ~o stan_d wi~h i!, so I am not
going to tell you anything concermng the m1htary s1tuat10n m the Islands.
"i hope you will not be disappointed when I say I can't tell you.
All I bring you, brethren, is a very brief messa~e concerni~g the conditions of your Lodges in the Hawaiian Area. Had 1t been yoss1ble for me
to assure your Grand Lodge that I would b~ presen~ at this Annual Co?1munication and providing censorship permitted, this report would have
been prepared previously to my leaving Honolulu.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

305

In the Hawaiian Islands we have been getting a lot of reports concerning the attitude of the people here on the Mainland, and particularly in the
West Coast Area. While I have not been with you long enough to ascertain the correctness of these reports, it would seem to me that this is true
to a great extent. No one really realizes the horrors of war until they,
themselves have witnessed the devastating effects such as we in Honolulu
did on the morning of December 7, 1941, and so I s"a y to you, brethren,
make no mistake about it. This country is at war and our institutions are
being endangered from its effects.
On the morning of December 7, 1941, at 7:55, we were viciously
attacked by a ruthless enemy and at 11 :00 a. m. the Honorable Joseph B.
Poindexter declared martial law. We then became under the control of the
military authorities and virtually all institutions, including the eight
Masonic Lodges in the Islands, were ordered closed. Our first official act
in conformity with the request of the military governor was to publish a
notice to the effect that all Masonic Lodges in the Islands would be closed
until further notice. This situation, however, could not continue and shortly
after we contacted the military governor and explained the situation to
him. He received us very courteously and explained that under martial
law and for the protection of the people of the Territory, he had asked
that no meetings of any description be held due to the threatened situation,
and while he was very much in favor of having Masonic Lodges function
in their usual manner, he felt that it was his duty to restrict the number
in attendance at such meetings and then only should such meetings be held
after permission had been obtained from him, which he would grant provided the military situation permitted.
We were confronted with the situation of electing new officers and
holding installations for the ensuing Masonic year: Due to the fact that
we could not hold meetings in the evenings, it made it necessary for us
to secure Special Dispensation from our Grand Master for a change in the
hour. All Lodges in the Islands changed their by-laws so that they now
meet at 4 :30 p. m. instead of 7 :30. This change was necessary due to the
fact that we were not only subjected to total black-out, but also civilians
had to be off the streets by 7 :00 p. m. Hence the mere fact of blacking
out the temple would not solve the problem which confronted us. As time
went on, we found it very difficult to hold these meetings as scheduled,
due to the fact that many of the officers of the Lodges were either called
into the Service or employed on defense projects which necessitated their
securing permission to be absent from their jobs on days that meetings
were called. This same condition affected the candidates and on many
occasions we found it necessary to postpone meetings that had already
been scheduled, due to the fact that we were unable to obtain a full quorum
of officers, and on many occasions when we did secure the officers necessary
to exemplify the degrees, we found the candidates could not be located.
This situation became very discouraging and some of the Lodges felt that
we should discontinue accepting applications. This, of course, could not be
done and it had . to be made quite clear to those officers who were either
in the Service or on defense projects that it would be necessary for us to
elect new officers and fill the vacancies. This was done in a number of
cases, as we were determined to carry on, regardless of the effects that
disaster had brought upon us.
Strange as it may seem, new applications became very numerous, and
as a striking example of this, we are now confronted with one of our
Lodges, namely Pearl Harbor No. 1598, having on hand at the present time
sufficient applications to keep that Lodge working continually .one day

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

each week for the next two years before it can handle all of the applicants
that have been elected. This situation is also true concerning Lodge
le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371, which has at the present time 38 new
applications on hand, in additfon to 20 firsts and seconds they are working on.
As a striking example of the effects of the war on this particular
Lodge, I might say that at the outbreak of hostilities, the Junior Warden
was an officer in the United States Navy. Immediately after the disaster,
the Senior Warden left the Territory and joined the British Navy; the
Worshipful Master, being a Reserve Officer in the United States Army,
was immediately called into service and the Senior Deacon, who is a
captain in the Army, was likewise called into service. For a time the
situation looked very discouraging. However, through the kind cooperation
which was and is being granted us by the military authorities, the Worshipful Master was permitted to continue with his Masonic activities in
addition to his military duties there. This, of course, made it necessary
for us to secure Special Dispensation to hold an election and installation
of officers. This was accomplished during the middle of the year and it
was felt at that time that the Lodge would then be able to function
properly during the remainder of the Masonic year. Since my arrival in
San Francisco, however, I have just learned that both the Worshipful
Master and the newly elected and installed Junior Warden have been
called to active duty elsewhere and we are now confronted with another
problem .which will necessitate the coaching and installing of new officers.
While the officer situation may seem to be a problem, it is not quite
as bad as the condition which confronts us relati~e to the coaching of
candidates. We find it. very difficult to be able to contact many of these
candidates who are in the armed forces and only able to secure liberty on
occasional days during the month. Hence it has made it very difficult for
us to carry on in a normal manner.
Immediately following the disaster, we were confronted with an
unu~ual number of requests for courtesy degrees. These have proved very
burdensome to the Lodges, not only due to the manner in which the
address of the candidate is furnished us, but due to the fact that practically
all of them are defense workers who have been sent to the Islands on a
one year's contract and are now endeavoring to get the degrees of Masonry
while in the Hawaiian Islands. While it has always been a great pleasure
to the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands to conform to these requests, we
found it necessary to present the situation to your Grand Master and
asked him to explain the conditions under which we were operating here
in the Islands and that it was practically impossible for these Lodges to
even take care of their own candidates without being burdened by courtesy
degrees. This situation, of course, is not true in the ~utlying Islands, but
the fact is that the most of the courtesy degrees are all centered in and
around Honolulu.
Since the disaster of December 7, we have had other problems,
especially coming to us from the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, these
requests being furnished to us in a manner which makes it practically
impossible for us to give the service we should, due to the addresses of
these visiting . brethren and due to the military restrictions prohibi.ting
civilians from entering military posts, we have been unable to cooperate
with them to the fullest extent. The mere fact that these requests continue
to be sent -to us, immediately leads us to believe that many of these Grand
Jurisdictions have not the slightest idea of the conditions under which we
are op.erating. To date we have received 187 such requests, _most of them

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

307

stating that Brother Jones, a member of a certain Lodge in this. Grand
Jurisdiction, has a son or a cousin, either in the Army or the Navy,
stationed somewhere in the Hawaiian Islands and they would deeply
appreciate it if we would make immediate contact with him and so advise
his Lodge. The mere fact that such requests come to us daily is very
evident that these jurisdictions have never lived under or witnessed the
effects of martial law. We merely give these examples so that you will
have some idea as to the uselessness of making such requests.
From time to time many apparently foolish requests are being made
of us by a number of these Lodge officers, which are being made in all
sincerity and with a full knowledge of our Masonic law in California and
we are inclined to believe that they are making these requests at the' sug. gestion of a number · of sojourning Masons from other jurisdictions. For
example, requests will be made for permission to initiate and pass more
than five candidates in one day, give part of the degree one day and the
lecture the next, waive coaching of candidates, make Masons on sight,
hold meetings on Sunday and conduct meetings without the presence of
either a Master or Warden', only a Past Master being present. We have
ruled that this cannot be done, and war or no war, Masonry must carry
on without any deviation from our ancient rules and custom.
While we are having our difficulties there in the Islands, we feel that
we cannot praise the military and the naval authorities too highly for the
splendid cooperation and assistance that they have given our fraternity.
They have expressed their desire to cooperate with us in every way
possible in order that we may continue our Lodge meetings and other
Masonic activity in as normal a manner as possible. We also feel that a
great deal of credit should be given to the National Sojourners, whose
officers of the three chapters now in the Hawaiian Islands have stepped
forward and volunteered to assist us in any way they possibly can. ·It is
our intention to maintain close cooperation and friendship with these
organizations and work with them in every way possible in order that
this conflict may be brought to an end as quickly as possible and we feel
that this will be accomplished in the not too far distant future.
War Relief
I might say we haven't done just as well as we would like to in the
Hawaiian Islands. Some of our Lodges have made a success; others have
not. But I think these Lodges who have not done much in the War
Relief have gone over the top in the Masonic Homes. But it is going
over. Last year, when I visited Canada I was surprised to find that they
already had a war relief fund such as we have here. In the Province of
Alberta they have a little over ten thousand Masons and in the year 1941
these ten thousand Masons in the Province of Alberta raised $50,000.00
and sent it to the Grand Lodge of England. It makes me a little ashamed,
brethren, in this wonderful jurisdiction, with 126,000 Masons and we
have not raised over $80,000.00." We have lost sight of the priviiege given
us to serve these brethren who are now serving us in the front line of
defense and this war isn't going to last very long either, and it is our duty
to support them when that time comes. Sometimes you ask why we are
carrying on as we are in the Hawaiian Islands. I will tell you: The thing
we love dearest is Masonry. Why, take some of these men in some of our
Lodges, and I mention Pearl Harbor Lodge in particular, where the
officers and especially the Master, sacrifices one day of his time each week
that he can devote it to Masonry. He loses $15.00 every week, one day's
pay, in order that he may continue the activities of P earl Harbor Lodge.

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Yet some of us feel it a burden if we are asked to pay one dollar to the
War Relief Fund. Just think that over and see what that one Master has
done for Masonry. They are taking their Masonry seriously, because the
thing they loved most was just about taken away from them. Sometimes
I think we can appreciate things only when they are taken away from us.
These brothers in Pearl Harbor on December 7 saw their brethren killed.
Yes brothers fighting waist deep in the waters of Pearl Harbor, stained by
the blood of their brothers, fighting for their brothers, for something they
held dear-liberty and freedom. And they, brethren, are fighting today as
they did on December 7, not only on the ocean and in the Army. They are
fighting in the Lodges, fighting for truth and justice, that ·you and every
Mason in California may go on enjoying the liberties which you hold· so
dear.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, I want to take this opportunity to
bring to you, and through you, to every Mason in California, felicitations
and best wishes and the love of your brethren in the Hawaiian Islands.
They are very much disappointed that you were not able to be with them
this year. They hope and pray that the day will come when you can pay
them that visit. Brethren, I hope that it will come soon. They want. to
see the war-time Grand Master.

.The Grand Master then presented Brother Colonel Walter
R. Dunham, Past Master and "Past Secretary of Honolulu Lodge
No. 409, who has served as executive secretary to four governors in the Hawaiian Islands and who accompanied Brother
Potts by Clipper from Honolulu. Colonel Dunham related many
interesting personal experiences under war conditions in Honolulu and his remarks were greatly appreciated.

GRAND LODGE o ·F CALIFORNIA

309

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TWENTY -THIRD
ANNUAL OBSERVANCE OF PUBLIC
SCHOOLS WEEK
To the M ost W orshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
During the week commencing Monday, April 27, 1942, California had
sugar rationing, air-raid warnings, "black-outs," first aid classes, and
courses in the training of air-raid wardens, auxiliary police and auxiliary
firemen; together with rain, measles and chickenpox and (in at least one
community) a campaign of vaccination and immunization. It was also
Public Schools Week; and its twenty-third annual observance was an
extraordinarily good one-not merely relatively speaking, having in mind
the condition which seemed to militate against its success-but considered
by itself. There were several reports with such comment as "best ever,"
"auditorium entirely too small for the crowd," "program best in years"
and "our schools never had so many visitors." As indicative of the situation throughout the state generally, we quote· from two newspaper clippings
-one attached to the report from a Lodge in one of the smaller communities, and the other accompanying the report of an observance in a
very large city.
"Aside from the general excellence of the program material, it appears
that the Twenty-third Observance of California's Public Schools Week
must be judged to have had a more general participation than any such
observance in the county in recent years."
"Despite the growing pressure of war-time duties upon all of us,
despite the swing"over of American energy from peacetime functions and
enterprises to the urgent business of war, Public Schools Week was
observed with even greater than normal attention and appreciation this
year."

It seems incredible that there were those who believed that because
of the difficulties that would be encountered we should not attempt to
hold an observance this year. Fortunately our Grand Master was not of
their number; and it was largely due to his wise counsel that there was
no interruption in any of the activities which reflect credit upon Masonry
in California. He realized that if a more just and orderly world is · to
emerge from the terrible conflict now being waged, it will be because our
schools will have instilled in t.h e minds and consciences of our youth the
passion for justice and knowledge that will bring that world into existence ;
and he pointed out to the timid souls that in continuing to give their public
schools that support which is now especially needed, the Craft would
rededicate themselves to the high principles and purposes of our government.
As indicative of the response which must have been exceedingly
gratifying to the Grand Master, we quote from a communication received
by our committee from five of our Island Lodges giving an entirely
unnecessary explanation of why they felt it would be inadvisable to attempt
to promote an observance in Honolulu this year:
"Our schools are now operating under very tryi~g circumstances ;
some having been taken over for purposes for which they can well be used
in connection with our defense program. Some are working on a part time

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

schedule and in others two different school organizations are using the
same b~ilding. Furthermore, under martial law which prevails in the
Territory large gatherings are prohibited, motor traffic is forbidden after
7 :30 and ~ll pedestriarts must be off the streets before 9 p. m."
This communication was personally s.i gned by each of the five Masters;
and it was a fine and very greatly appreciated, gesture from our brethren
in the only place 'in the jurisdiction where the observance of Public Schools
vVeek this year could not be reasonably expected.
Viewed in its entirety, our latest observance was not greatly different
from those of preceding years, and no less successfol. Such differences as
there were consisted of changes in the form of the observance. in certain
communities made necessary by war-time regulations and restrictions. For
the most part, however, the change made was the adoption of a type of
program which had long prevailed elsewhere. And curi~usly enough, there
were many instances reported where the change met with such favor that
the program provided as only a temporary substitute made ·necessary by
the conditions will probably be continued as a permanent feature of the
observance.
As illustrative of what occurred in more than one instance, mention
may be made of a community which until this year had observed Pub.lie
Schools Week by evening programs in the auditoriums of the schools with
exhibits of school work displayed in the halls, and where practically no
attention had been given to encouraging visits to !he schools during school
hours. This year the school buildings in that community were closed at
.night; and unable to observe the week in the customary manner, the committee according to the report from the Lodge, "worked out a program
by wh,ich certain schools held 'open house' from 8:30 in the morning until
3 :30 in the afternoon with gratifying results. Visitors crowded the school
rooms and were glad to avail themselves of this opportunity to see teaching
in its practical aspect ... Everyone was so pleased with the 'open house'
idea that we will probably continue to make use of it."

In passing it should be noted that what is termed the "open house"
program is suscep'tible of many variations. In some instances it consists
of little, if anything, more than an entertainment in the school auditorium
with perfunctory visits to some of the classrooms either before or after
the presentation of t.h e program in the auditorium; and in this connection
we believe it will be well worth while to quote, in its entirety, an extremely
interesting description of a program arranged by a school principal, and
which was attached to a report from one of our Lodges:
"For s'o me time we have felt that our Open House was not
. functioning in the manner we had hoped it would. True, it did
provide us with an opportunity to 'dress up' and 'show off' and it
did succeed in bringing large numbers of mothers and fathers to
the building. But merely dressing ~P and bringing. parents to the
building we feel is insufficient for the consummation of our purpose
in holding open house at all.
"To be functional open house should allow the parents to visit
the school at a normal time--to see the school operation in a normal, natural manner, observing the children at work in a situation
where they themselves feel ··at home.' Observing the printing of a
newspaper is much more effective than visiting when the presses
are not 'in action.'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

311

"We have, therefore, adopted a different plan for our open house
this year. We are replacing one large formal open house night with
a series of room teas sponsored jointly by the children and the
teacher on the one hand, and the room mother, chairman of room
mothers and chairman of education of the Parent Teacher Association on the other. This joint sponsorship assists .us in reaching all
of the parents in a given room and 'insures a wider interest than
would be the case were we to plan the tea alone.
"The teacher plans a brief but normal unrehearsed demonstration of regular work for a period of about one-half hour. The last
one-half hour of the day is chosen. The children are then dismissed and a group conference on the evaluation of the work is
held. General discussion may follow and finally tea is served by
the room mothers. These ladies also arrange to care for the
children whose mothers are at the demonstration. These demonstrations will, of course, vary in kind and technique, but each will
be a part of the normal, natural day. They will occur throughout
the entire building one or more times in each room, the parents
being specifically and particularly invited each time. Dates will be
selected that will bring in as many fathers as possible. We shall
plan to schedule dates in order to avoid conflicts in the use of the
tea facilities.
'

"In this way we shall hope to have every parent visit the
school at .least once during the year at a time of the day when it
is possible to observe the child at work. We shall also eliminate
the tremendous effort involved in open house. We will give parents a much better opportunity to meet and know the teacher.''
What we have quoted, it is explained in a footnote, was written in
October, 1941; and then follows this statement:
"Each one has been a unique visitation and each has been
prepared and presented in a manner inherent with the room itself.
We' feel that all have been eminently successful. The principal and
teacher have joined in each discussion period. Some rooms invited
the parents sufficiently early to allow them to join their children
at lunc.h eon in the cafeteria."
The ideal "open- house" is, perhaps, one where the visitors may not
only see the children at their regular work in the classroom, but also have
an opportunity of viewing exhibits and displays of school work. There
were several of that sort reported this year. Attached to one of the reports
was an elaborate printed program of the open house of a high school in
a large city which included· a directory of the teachers, with the location
of their rooms. There was also a list of fourteen questions introduced by
"Do You Know?"; with directions as to where the answers could be found.
We have space for only the following:
" Do You Know?
What training ................ High School is giving for the defense
of our nation in its ultimate victory? OBSERVE AND
LEARN."
"Do You Know?
How to plan a well balanced economical meal and sugarless ·
desserts that build strong bodies for our young people? Be

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

sure to ·investigate the cooking and nutrition classes, Room
252."
"Do You Know?
How the high schools are preparing young men and women
to be trained for the engineers, doctors, nurses, chemists and
other technical positions so needed by our nation? Don't miss
. any of the science displays."
"Do You Know?
Where to find the teacher of your ................ High School student? Consult the list of teachers and rooms on pages 6
and 7."
This year there were, of course, the usual exhibits of school work;
but everywhere, and especially in the larger school systems, emphasis was
on the war effort being made in the schools. This was particularly noticeable in the . displays in the show windows made available by the large stores.
In one city there was an exhibit of work being done in the courses which have
been introduced into the schools to prepare students for military service;
and in another there were several window displays depicting various phases
of the national defense or war effort. There was also one entitled "All
Fronts Ready," showing a Red Cross nurse, R. 0. T. C. cadet, and a welder
at work And in a third city, in an invitation issued by the superintendent
of schools to the public, particular attention was called to the courses in
air mechanics, acetylene welding, arc welding and burning, and air craft
fabrication; and to the air craft motor school and radio school. Apparently
everywhere, even where no special courses had been intro.duced, particular
stress was laid on regular classroom work in mathematics, science,
English, history and foreign languages; as well as on physical education
and the work of the 'vocational shops.
The custom of holding what may be termed "pre-week" gatherings
to stimulate interest in the observance is growing. For many years the
officers of three Masonic Lodges in one of our cities have entertained the
superintendent of schools and the principals together with the mayor and
the members of the Board of Education· at a dinner held the week before
the opening of Public Schools Week At this meeting there are "pep"
talks and each of the principals outlines the school's program. This year,
among other gatherings of a similar nature, there was an entertainment
given in its Lodge room by a Lodge which has thirty-six of its members
engaged in the educational work of the community.
· Fine publicity was obtained for the observance in one of the smaller
communities by a poster contest in which a prize was given for the poster
which best depicted in spirit and handwork "The Real Purpose of Public
Schools Week" There were also three groups of prizes (for the senior
high school, junior high school and elementary school pupils') for the best
essays on these three subjects: "I Own a Part of America," "What the
School Can Do to Help National Defense" and "How an American Girl
or Boy Can Help Win the War."
It will be perhaps remembered that in these reports to Grand Lodge,
and in bulletins sent to the Lodges, it has been repeatedly, and as forcefully
as possible, pointed out to Masters and committees arranging programs
that the aims and purposes of Public Schools Week could be best effectuated through visits to the schools; but apparently it took the war with

313

"black-outs,"· and other war-time regulations and restrictions, to bring
about general acceptance of the idea. Never before were visits to the
schools the dominant feat_µre of so many local observances. And never
before were there so many visitors who availed themselves of this opportunity to obtain first hand information of just what their schools are doing.
To refer to only two communities of the many of which mention might
well be made, one reports that 22,000 visitors were received in its schools
during the week; and in
report from the other appears the statement
that there were eleven schools which together had 8720 visitors. An amazing showing in view of the conditions which were certainly not conducive
to activities of this sort.
·

a

_It is a far cry from a school recording 2070 visitors, to one which
received only 15. But the showing of the latter is no less praiseworthy
than is that of the other. It is a little rural school in a county in which
Public Schools Week is customarily observed by a centralized county
school function in which all the school.s of the county participate. This
year, on account of the conditions, and especially because of the rationing
of tires and the curtailment of unwarranted mileage for the school buses,
each of the schools held an observance of its own with a pupil program
and an exhibit of school work; and according to the report "the plan
adopted seemed to work out very satisfactorily."
There were many communities in which the public meetings were
held as usual; in others, either because the school buildings were closed at
night or on account ·o f a possible black-out they were held at a sufficiently
early hour to be concluded before darkness fell. In a few instances where
the school building was not available for a public meeting at night it was
held in the Lodge room; but as should have been expected, it was not well
attended.
In connection with the reference to the danger of black-outs, mention
may here be made of numerous instances where the invitations sent to
parents, and also the public notices of scheduled events at the schools
included assurances that ample preparations had been made to meet th~
contingency of an air-raid alarm. Showing especial foresight was the following notice in an "open house" program:
"Arrangements have been made with the Police Department so that
we will be notified on the yellow signal. This will give you plenty of time
to_ get home_. Your signal, in case you are scattered through the building,
will be contmuous short bells over a long period of time. If you hear this
signal go quickly, go safely, go home.''
.
A very inte_resting description of an air-raid demonstration appears
m a report to his Lodge by one of its members who · acted as one of the
"official observers" sent to each school. It was attached to the report
received from that Lodge:
'
"What I thought was about the most interesting performance
of the afternoon was when the principal sounded an 'air-raid
alarm.' We were greatly surprised when we saw 470 children get
to their assigned places without running down steps or in the halls.
They were in their places and the messengers who went to the
different rooms to pull up the blinds and drop the black-out curtains had the doors locked in 'one minute and twenty seconds.
In case of the failure of the electricity when an alarm is sounded,
all the principal need do is to step into the first room to the right
of his office and say 'air-raid alarm'; then certain pupils in that

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

room have specific jobs to do. Each pupil who ac!s as. m~ssenger
has a substitute who acts in his absence. Warmng is instantly
transmitted to every room without confusion or disorder. A pupil
in each room immediately arranges the shades and drops the blackout curtains. Roll call is checked every' morning and reported to
the principal's office to keet;i check on the messengers."

asked to spell the word; and if it were not correctly spelled, there would •
be an immediate show of upraised hands. And, by the way, spelling contests of various sorts were featured in a great many programs this year.

Incidentally, according to the report, there is not one white child in
that school.
As has been indicated, the observance this year was as wid~spread as
usual-cities, towns and hamlets vieing with each other, all amm~t~d ~y
a common purpose. There were, however, a. few small comm~?1~1es m
which no observance was held because, accordmg to one report, . discouraged by the school authorities." In one inst~nc~ t~ e re~s?n given was
1
that "the teachers .were too busy with sugar rat10nmg. This was the more
remarkable because it would seem that the school people generally wer.e
especially active and cooperative this year. They .knew! of course, that it
was a critical year through which the schools were p~ssmg, and th~t never
before was there greater need for that sympathetic und~rstandmg and
support upon which their usefulness depends. They realized, too; that
because of the war conditions a special effort woul? be necessary to
awaken the interest of the people and secure commu?1ty supp.art for t?e
observance. And they rose magnificently to the occasion. Typical ~f s~ir­
ring appeals made by administrators, principals and teachers ".l'as an mv1!ation from which we quote that was issued to the people ·of his community
by the head of a small school system (and who, incidentally was given the
credit by the Master of his Lodge for the very successful observance
which was held):
"You ask, 'What can I do to serve our country? How can I
aid in the war work?' We answer, 'Visit our schools wh~re we
are today training the leaders of tomorrow, and endeavoring to
instill into them a deep love of our country, a true respect and
understanding of democracy .as the only true way of life. Understand the problems of our children. Help them through these days
which are even more perplexing to them than to those of us who
remember other wars. Watch the children at work and at play.
Talk with their teachers. Discover how we are trying to produce
our citizens of tomorrow.' "
The "sugar rationing" invoked by the teachers in one communit?'
as an excuse for not holding an observance, was in another made the motif
of an exceedingly interesting program given as a part of the regular class-·
room work in a one-room rural school.
The ·visitors witnessed what appeared to be a cross between a panel
discussion and a quiz contest carried on by ten or twelve children ~ith
one acting as leader. With "sugar rationing" as the introductory subiect
there developed, under the skillful guidance of a very capable teache~,
a discussion of why it was necessary to ration sugar; and where sugar is
produced; and how many different kinds there are; and what other products
we use come from parts of the world now closed to our trade; and why
civilians must now deny themselves some things they enjoyed before we
were at war; and why they should purchase · war stamps. It was a less~:m
in not only reading, but also in current history, geography and economics
-yes, even in spelling; because if a child hesitated in the use. of a word,
or if it was an unusual one in a child's vocabulary, the pupil would be

315

There were spelling matches between representatives of different
schools; and of different classes in the same school; and between children
and adults. There were a Rotary team and a Kiwanis team contesting with
high school pupils; and there were contests also between "fathers and
sons" and "mothers and daughters.''
This reference to spelling warrants mention here of a school-wide
informal testing program at a Union High School conducted in advisory
groups. It showed that spelling, while not mastered by all students, is not,
as some people insist, the forgotten child of the school curriculum. The
five tests of 20 words each were selected from Buckingham Extension of
Ayre's Spelling Scale. The group average on the test varied from 85%
to 95% with a school average of 91 %. Of 2086 papers submitted 963 were
perfect. Two-thirds of the papers showed not more than one error. Three
papers were submitted in which none of the words was correctly spelledbut this doesn't prove that "the fundamentals are being neglected" and
that "the children can't spell the simplest words.''
·
There were many pupil programs in the way of entertainment which
either through tableaux or playlets stressed patriotism and loyalty. The
theme of a very ambitious one centered on the relation between our
country and Latin America. I\ stemmed from the work of the Spanish
classes in the high school and was developed in cooperation with other
interested persons in the community to emphasize the importance of PanAmerican relations. Approximately 100 students participated in a pageant
which depicted an imaginary tour through Mexico, Panama, Peru, Chile,
Argentina, Brazil and Cuba. With characteristic music, a narrator introduced the representatives of these countries, all garbed in authentic costumes, and who presented the flags of their respective nations; and then
representatives of the United States presented a musical review of America.
An especially noteworthy event was what was termed a "Victory
Program" presented in the auditorium of a high school and which was
dedicated to three former students of the school who had lost their lives
in the war, and to other students. who are now in the service of their
country.
A bit of unconscious humor (or perhaps it may hav~ been satire)
appears in a footnote to a program for "visitors' day" sent by a teacher to
the parents of her pupils. The program opened with a salute to the · flag
and the singing of the Star Spangled Banner; and in the footnote there
was a request to the children to teach their parents the words of the first and
last stanzas of the national anthem, and how to salute the flag.
No less extraordinary than the number of visitors to the schools, was
the amount of newspaper and radio publicity received. Just as in spite of
the war-time duties and responsibilities devolving upon them, the parents
found time to learn by a personal visit just what the schools are doing,
so apparently did the broadcasting stations and the newspapers, in spite
of the war-time demands upon them, find-or make-time and space to
very generously and lavishly publicize the observance. Among the clippings attached to a report was a column under the head "Citizenship in
Schools" which, while especially applicable to the schools of the community

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in which the paper is published, is also fairly descriptive of what is generally being done in the public schools in California. We wish we might
here reproduce it in its entirety. That, of course, we cannot do; but we
cannot forbear presenting the following excerpts:

peoples of the world must draw together in some common covenant-some
genuine and practical cooperation that will in effect combine their force
to secure peace and justice in the dealings of nations with one another."
That will be the task of the citizens of tomorrow-the youth of today.

316

No one paper can ever begin to tell what the public schools
are doing for America. Here are just a very few of the activities
which are making better citizens and a better country. . . .

All of which is respectfully submitted,

Are the students of our public schools loyal to America? Do
they know and love America? Are they living the democratic way?
Do they appreciate the great Americans from the time of the
founding of the country to the present, the great stirring events of
American history, the Constitution of the United States and our
other priceless documents? "The answer is an emphatic yes." ...

JOHN B. BEMAN,

w ALTER L. BACHRODT,

MELVIN E. BOWMAN,

ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,

ROBERT A. ODELL,

WILL

The development of such knowledges, skills and loyalty has
always been a constant first concern in our schools. The current
emergency has only served to quicken an interest which has always
motivated the work of our teachers and administrators . . . .

The schools offer students on all levels many opportunities
to practice being a good citizen. A goo~ citizen respects our laws,
public property, the rights and personalities of other people,
cooperates for the general welfare, abides by majority decisions,
respects the minority, keeps informed, is a good leader when
selected, is a good follower . . . .
Older students practice these virtues in class work, home
room duties, student government, and club activities. Our schools
are a true picture of democracy in action. . . .
Finally, it is not enough that education in the present emergency should revolve around our country alone. After victory we
and our children face the necessity of creating a lasting world
peace. Our schools are contributing toward this job. Students
study world history and world problems. They study the ways in
which the people of the various countries live, the way in which
they can help u·s , and we can help them. . . .
The courageous study .by students of today of the world
problems that will have to be solved should aid the solutions of
tomorrow.
This has b een a critical year- but no less so will be those in the
immediate future. Special effort is now being made in our public schools
to train our youth to meet the demands war has laid upon them. But with
peace will come other demands and duties and responsibilities; for these,
too, our young people must be trained.
Our first and ever present thought must be concerned with the winning of the war. But no matter how decisive may be the victory, the war
will not have been won unless it results in the kind of peace for which we
fought that other war-"a peace that will keep the future safe against
war." That peace was lost because we were not willing to join in a concert of power to enforce it. In the words of Woodrow Wilson "the free

RoY W. CLOUD,

JOHN L. COMPTON,·

VIRGIL E. DICKSON,

PERCY R. DAVIS,

ELIAS E. ELLISON,

NORMAN 'H. FARNHAM,

WILLIAM F. EWING,

DR. WALTER V. GOODFELLOW,

WALTER T. HELMS,

F.

Done in ways suitable to the age of the student our schools
are constantly teaching patriotism and loyalty through an understanding of the ideals upon which our country has developed . ...

c. CRAWFORD,

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

A. HENDERSON,

C. BURNHAM HERYFORD,

THOMAS J. HENRY,

CHARLES

VIERLING KERSEY,

WESLEY

c. HUGHES,
w. KERGAN,

JoHN A. SEXSON,

FREDERICK F. MARTIN,

STEADMAN G. SMITH,

JOSEPH P. NOURSE,

CHARLES E. TEACH,

WILLIAM G. PADEN,
JESSE W. WARNER,
VAUGHAN MAcCAUGHEY.

Adopted.

317

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Control is pleased to submit the following report of
the activities coming under its supervision during the past Masonic year.
In doing so it desires first to express to the Grand Master, also the Gran'd
Secretary and his assistants its appreciation for the information and assistance given to the board.
It is the belief of the board that all justified relief has been freely
extended.
.
The Board of Control further feels that notwithstanding the scarcity
of labor at the present time, that in this period of great stress and uncertainty as to future conditions, great pillars of Masonic strength are vested
in our Boards of Relief and Employment Services; that they represent
organized power, which when needed and called upon will be ready in
key positions to immediately serve to the utmost in every capacity required,
to benefit the Masonic fraternity; that their need will be greater in the
future than in the past.
The complete harmony and cooperation between the Board of Control
and the Boards of Relief and individual Lodges continues to be conducive
of gratifying resu Its.
'
The personnel of our Boards of Relief and Employment Servic~s
are entitled to our sincere commendation.
The continued progress and success of our Bo;i.rds of Relief and
Employment Service will be indicated by the following report.
Meetings
·The board held one meeting on January 31, 1942, in Los Angeles. It
had several conferences by mail during the year and a special meeting
with secretaries of Boards of Relief and managers of Employment Bureaus,
October 13, 1942 (during Grand Lodge).
Members of the Board of Control also attended annual Board of Relie.f
and Employment Bureau breakfasts at Long Beach, San Diego, Los
Angeles, Fresno, Sacramento, and Oakland.
Reimbursements
We have recommended to the Finance Committee that the following
requests for reimbursements be granted:
San Francisco ........................................................................ ;.............$19.00
Los Angeles .................................................................................... ,... 35.00
Total ..............................................................................................$54.00
This amount of $54.00 represents the entire reimbursement asked of
the Grand Lodge after all Boards of Relief have finished an entire year
of service in helping our sojourning brethren and their dependents in the
usual manner.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

319

Special ·Reimbursements
Case No. 1:
The Grand Lodge is requested to make reimbursement to the San
Francisco Board of Relief of $850.00, which is purely an advancement
made to the wife of a member of the Grand Lodge of Scotland. A very
large part of this amount has already been deposited by her husband with
the Grand Lodge of Scotland. The Grand Lodge of Scotland has authorized
us to continue the advancement of funds, which is being done at the rate
of $50.00 per month.
The Board of Control has approved of this reimbursement and the
Finance Committee will favorably report same to Grand Lodge.
The Board of Control now asks for approval by the Grand Lodge of
the continuation of further advancement of $50.00 per month, subject to
the discretion of the San Francisco Board of Relief.
The Finance Committee and also the chairman of the Policy and
General Purposes Committee concur with the Board of Control in referring
this matter to th~ Grand Lodge for action.
Case No. 2:
Reimbursement is asked by the Los Angeles Board of Relief for a
net amount of $416.40, which has been recommended by the Board of
Control and approved by. the Finance Committee. This money was advanced after careful .consideration and consultation with Brother Lawrence
Benton, Past Master, Manila Lodge No. 1, and advancement was approved
by correspondence with Manila Lodge No. 1, of the Philippine Islands,
and by Roy C. Bryan, representative of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of the Philippine Islands. This case is closed.
The Board of Control and the Finance Committee believe that the
above two amounts, namely $850.00 and $416.40, should be set up on the
Grand Lodge books as amounts due the Grand Lodge.
Employment Service
A year ago, we reported that "the upswing in many lines of business
and industry occasioned by the preparedness program has had great influence in reducing unemployment." That was written before December 7,
1941. What occurred on that day, with the resultant declaration of war,
has rea,lly had great influence in further redudng unemployment.
Notwithstanding this fact, our seven employment services received
24,681 applications from our unemployed brethren and dependents, which
was a slight increase over the previous year. There were 17,541 jobs
secured, and we could have filled many more jobs if we had qualified applicants available. Reports show there was an increase of 4.4 per cent in the
number of permanent jobs secured over the previous year.
One bureau found jobs for 2714 applicants between the ages of 40-50;
and also found jobs for 1366 of 50 years and over.
Employers' requests for help reached an all-time high, 30,303 as compared to 24,194 in 1941 and 14,836 in 1940.
The expense for the year was $33,376.77, of which Grand Lodge
appropriated $18,800.00, or 56.3 per cent. The a;verage cost per job was
$1.90, and had our brethren secured these jobs through private fee-charging
agencies, they would have paid out more than $300,000.00.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

320

321

' •

Appropriations
After due and careful consideration the board has recommended to
the Finance Committee that the following appropriations. be made for
Employment Bureau Service of the different Boards of Rehef.
They are as follows for 1942-43 :

r~e:;oB;~~h··.::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$2:000:00
Special ................................................................

$

500.00

200.00
2,200.00

Los

~:~~;fs ..:::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$j:~~:~
7,800.00
2,400.00

SUMMARY OF BOARDS OF RELIEF
Alameda
Harry Turner, President
Ralph W. Merrick, Secretary
Board of Relief is composed of three Lodges and meets monthly.
There are no paid employees.
Balance on hand as per last report ..........................................................$
Receipts (funerals) ....................................................................................

35.43
3.50

Total receipts and balance on hand ............................."...................$
Disbursements (funerals) ······················································"'··::..;.,..,...:.

38.93
3.50

Balance. on hand July 31, 1942......................................•...........•.......$

35.43

Bakersfield

1,100.00
San

~i=~~l ··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::$1,::~
2,200.00

San Francisco ..........................................................$2,800.00
Special ································································ 200.00

3,000.00
$19,200.00

Total ............................................................................

This is an increase of $400.00 over last year.
Detailed reports of each Board of Relief will be furnished the Grand
Secretary to form a part of this report.
Respectfolly submitted,
EUGENE

s. ELKUS,

JAMES R. ERSKINE,
BEN G. WRIGHT,
WM. T. W 'HEELING,

] ACK C. BUTLER,

Committee

The report was adopted save t~at portion. relating to finance,
which was referred to the Committee on Fmance.

Asa Y. Meudell, Secretary
Charles Schuler, President
Board of Relief is composed of the Master and Wardens ,of four
Lodges, also a president and a secretary-tr.~asurer, and meet quarterly.
There is no salary paid employee. The secretary-treasurer is bonded in
the sum of $500.00.
Balance on hand as per last report ..........................................~. : ...........$
Receipts (per capita assessmerits) ..........................................................

98.96
329.25

Total receipts and balance on hand ................................................$

428.21

Disbursements
Printing and stationery...........................................:.;.:.. ,.......$
Expense ·······································- ············································
Salaries ...............,....................................................................

10.30
20.00
300.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1942......... ·-········································

330.30

$

97.91

East Bay
Samuel F . Woi:.swick, Secretary
J. Walter Proctor, President
Board of Relief is composed of the Masters and Wardens of thirty-one
Lodges, and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, a secretary
at a salary of $1500.00 per annum; and an assistant secretary at a salary
of $750.00. The treasurer is bonded in the sum of $2000.00. Compensation
and automobile insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report...................................................... $14,503.55

Receipts
P er capita assessments, local Lodges ................................$ 5,161.54
California Lodges .................................................................. 1,797.11
O ther Lodge's in U. 5.:.........................................................
497.05
Foreign Lodges ............................................ ,.........................
5.QO
Grand L odge of California .......................... :.......................
100.00
F unerals ..................................................................................
760.81
Sale of automobiles ...................................................... _........
784.04
Interest ········'"························--··············--····--························273.64

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

42.57
_ _1_5._2_6

9,481.02

Total receipts and balance on hand ......................................... '. ..

$23,984.57

i;i:~:~~~ee~~~u:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Disbursements
. L 0 dges ·•··•••·•••••••••••••••· •• ....................• $ 1,949.43
For relief, Ca l.f
1 orma
571.12
Other Lodges in U. S .......•................... '···························- ·
12.00

. ~i~J~:I~:~~~~:~:=-~l~:[:~=- :-=:_-l:l=f~f:~ t!i!ll
Telephone and telegraph......................................................
Postage ·········'·············:.......:.....................................................
Printing and stationery.....................................................,..
Office supplies and furniture ..:·············································
Payment on DeSoto..............,...............................................

63.35
1.44
116.83
585.54
199.40

Auto expense ·············································'·········:::::::::::::::::::
Traveling expense ·············································
Audit ........,.................................................................. '.............
Donations and petty cash....................................................

36.65
37.50
35.50
78.10

~~;~~~a;;~~~pit~:::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::'. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::

2.01

. 3?3
Glendale
Robert Lawson, President
L. E. Olson, Secretary
Board of Relief is composed of one member from Meridian Lodge
No. 667 and two from Glendale Lodge No. 554. Annually the board meets
with officers of participating Lodge. The board itself meets on call.
Balance on hand as per last report...................................................... $ 170.48.
Receipts
Other Lodges in the United 'States .. :............................... $
Funeral reimbursements ..................................................... .
Individual donation ..............................................................

Total receipts and balance on hand ...,. ....................... ,................
Disbursements
Other Lodges in the United States ..................................$
Funerals ··················································································
Individuals ...............................................................:...............
Telephone and tele1rraph~ .................................................... .

12,771.14

Fresno
S eed B. Leas, President . E. M. Fornes, Secretary
P
W. R. Tanzer, Manager

Disbursements
For relief, California Lodges ........ :·····································$

i~~:~~

1,108.99
994.25

4 ~:~~
3

Balance on hand July 31, 1942 ....... :............................................. . $

$

226.80

520.68

$ 1,476.57

Receipts

320.00

i~~;~f~~~~~:':~-:: ::~~~- ~-: :~:~~ __:_;!_·_~0_

747.48

Board of Relief is composed of four Lodges and meets monthly.
There are no paid employees. The secretary-treasurer is bonded in the
sum of $500.00.

California Lodges ·-···························································•···$
Other Lodges in the United States ..................................
Interest .....................................................................................
Grand Lodge advances refunded by Lodges ................. .
Interest on savings accounts ..............................................

11.80
75.65
140.00

5.oo

20.37

252.82

Total receipts and balance on hand............................................

$ 1,729.39

Receipts

Total receipts and balance on hand ........................................... . $

$

Honolulu
T. U. Angell, Secretary

Balance on hand as per last report... ........ '.........................................

four Lodges
secretary,
who
Board of Relief is composed of thr~e mem b ers e~~h of
e
and meets mon thly · There is one paid employee,
receives $750.00 ·per year.
.
$ 114.74
Balance on hand as per last report ..................................................... .

~~~:~~l~;~~~~-~~-:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~,: __2_0_~:_6_~

577.00

360.00
98.16
42.50
20.02

Balance on hand July 31, 1942.......................,............... ,..............

Balance on hand July 31, 1942...................................................... $11,213.43

Per capita assessment, lo;al Lodges .................... :···········$
Grand Lodge of California..................................................

360.00
117.00
100.00

Disbursements
California Lodges .........................................................•.......• $.
Other Lodges in the United States .........................••. _,_
Rent safe deposit bo.x:...........................................................•
Telegraph .....................................................•...... ,...................
Printing and stationery........................................................ .
Christmas donations ............................................:...............
MisceUaneous ..........................................................................
Loans (individual) ................................................................

11.80
81.05
4.80
13.36
36.50
25.00
8.30
5.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1942................•........•... :.................... ~.
950.80
43.45

185.81

$ 1,543.58

Long Beach
B. H. Linville, President
W. T. Corbusier, Secretary ·
Board of Relief is composed of the Master and Wardens of twelve
Lodges and meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the secretary,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

324

GRAND LODGE OF· CALIFORNIA

The secretary and treasurer are bonded
who receives $900.00 per yeaCr.
t'
and automobile insurance are
in the sum of $500.00 each. ompensa ton
carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report ...................•................................ $ 2,034.09

Receipts
Per capita assessments, local Lodges................................$ 1 • 8~~:~~
California Lodges .........................-.......................................
925.00
Other Lodges in U. S...........................................................
100.00

. : : : : ::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 1,0~~:~~

~~~~:a~s L:~~~-~

Interest .·..................<.......................................................... ...... _ _ __

3,959.81

Total receipts and balance on hand............................................

$ 5,993.90

Disbursements
For relief California Lodges......................:.......................$
53.85
, .
. d Sta t es.......................................... 1,033.00
Other Lodges
in Umte
130.00
Foreign Lodges ......................................................................
60.00
Individuals .....................................................:......................... 1,152.85
Funerals ..................................:.:..............................................
900.00
Salaries ....................................................................................
180.00
Rent .....~;....................................................:..,...........................
66.22
Insurance and bond ...................:..,...,._..................................
67.69
Telephone and telegraph......................................................
38.00
Postage ··-·················-··········..····························-'····..·············
50.47
Printing and stationery....................._.........: ....,....................
33.21
Office supplies ...............:........................................................
180.00
Auto expense ..........................................................................
67.50
Travel expense ......................................................................
25.00
Audit ............::...........................................................................
51.69
Miscellaneous ..:......................................................................,... _ _ __

4,089.47

Balance on hand ] uly 31, 1942....... ~ ....:.~ ....c:, ...................:............

$ _l,904.43

¥

Pasadena
Merle F. Simmons, President
Walter F. Kress, Secretary

M~ster a~d e~ar~es~~r~iar~a~~

;~~fa:::~ $z~~~~O~~~t~~~t~h~~~s~re~;~:~e~:~d~::~~~~es~~~o~\~~~g:~~

per month
.. Theearner,
se~retary
an b'I
each.
Fidelity,
automo
t e an d compensation insurance are carried.

~~l:n::t::o:!~ed i:su;:~· last report.................................................... $ 4,144.14
Receipts
Per capita assessments, local Lodges.......................,........$l~,~~~:~~
California Lodges ····:·;............,.............................................. 13,842.94
Other Lodges in U mted States..........................................
,532.64
Foreign Lodges ....................................................................
68.00
Non members Lodges..........................................................
1.81

i~::;eas~c~...~~~-~-~~-.::::::::~::::'.::::::~:::::'.:::_::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::

198.42

. . • ·· · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · ·· · ·· · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · ·· · · · · · ·

Balance on hand ] uly 31, 1942...................................................... $ 5,006.95

Los Angeles
Robert E . Esterbrook, President
Earl Thaxter, Secretary
Board ~f Relief is compqsed of the

325

Disbursements
For relief, California Lodges._:.........:...........~ ......:...........:$ 4,972.55
Other Lodges in United State11.,......................................... 13,379.09
Foreig·n Lodges .......................................................................
855.12
41 .52
Unclassified relief ................................ ,.................................
Contributed to Employment Service................................ 4,110.00
Funeral Lodge ........................................................................ 2,830.24
Clearing house reports ...~ ....,.................................................
211.45
Salaries .................................................................................... 5,406.25
Rent ..........................................................................................
638.75
Insurance and bond................................................................
24.34
Telephone and telegraph .........:............................................
481.22
Postage .....................................................................................
198.52
Printing and stationery........................................................
276.81
56.48
Office supplies ........................................................................
Field work ..............................................................................
619.15
Auto expense ..........................................................................
133.42
Audit ........................................................................................
100.00
Miscellaneous ..........................
244.18
Taxes-office equipment ......................................................
13.57
34,692.66

Board of Relief is composed of the Master and Wardens from six
Lodges and meetings are held as called. There is one paid employee, the
secretary, who receives a salary of $75.00 per month. The secretary is
bonded in the sum of $500.00. Automobile insurance is carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report....................................................

Receipts
Per capita assessments, local Lodges................................$
Other Lodges in United States..........................................

$

541.95

423.50
600.00

1,023.50

Total receipts and balance on hand ............................................

$ 1,565.45

Disbursements
Other Lodges in United States...........................................$
Salaries ....................................................................................
Pension fund ..........................................................................
Audit ................: .......................................................................
Miscellaneous ..........................................................................

600.00
900.00
9.00
10.00
.66

1,519.66

Balance on hand July 31, 1942...................................................... $

45.79

Richmond
Homer W . Patterson, President
A. W. Judkins, Secretary
35,555.47

Total receipts and balance on hand............................................ $39,699.61

Board of Relief is composed of one member from each of four Lodges
and meets semi-annually. There are no paid employees. The secretary
and treasurer are bonded for $500.00 each.

326

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

327

Disbursemen ts

Sacramento
Mark S. Edson, President
Earle A. Trimmer, Secretary
Board of Relief is composed of the Master and Wardens of nine
Lodges and meets monthly. There is one paid employee, a secretary, his
salary being $1,137.50 per annum. The secretary and treasurer are bonded
in·the sum of $500.00 each.
Balance on hand as per last report ........ :........................................... $ 2,256.69
Receip(s
Per capita assessments, local Lodges ................................$ 1,777.50
100.00
Grand Lodge of California.·......................................:..........
790.06
California Lodges ..................................................................
42.05
Other Lodges in United States ..........................................
50.00
Foreign Lodges ......................................................................
520.53
Funerals ....................................................................................
79.00
Individuals ..............................................................................
78.00
Masonic Breakfast Club ........................................................
27.38
Interest ....................................................................................

ther Lodges in United States........................................

~~~~~'.~-~~;:~:~:::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ;: : : ~

.!~~~~~~~-~~:::~~~~~;~~~;::::::~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : '.: : : :

20.55
80.37
2.00
50.80
1.50
.89
6.00
10.81

172.92

Balance on hand July 31, 1942.................................................... $

539.68

San Diego
Jasper J. Barrett, President

3,464.52

Total receipts and balance on hand ........ ,................................... $ 5,721.21
Disbursements
For relief, California Lodges................................................$ 827.06
1.55
Other Lodges in United States..........................................
77.00
Foreign Lodges ················~···················································
524.31
Funerals ······-~·-·························································· ··············
375.00
Contributed to Employment Service..............-.............•....
32.00
Individuals ······························'·-············································
Salaries ....,........................,-············-······································ 1,137.50
15.00
Insurance .and bond................................................................,
49.88
Telephone and telegraph ......................................................
15.50
21.70
7.15
Office supplies ........................................................................
180.00
Auto expense ....................................................................._. ....
30.00
Travel expense ......................................................................
20.00
Audit ····-··················································································
43.50
Misce11aneous ....................................................................._. ....

3,357.25

Balance on hand July 31, 1942........ ~·······················'···················

$ 2,363.96

Fred M. Thompson, Secretary

Board of Relief is composed of two members from thirteen Lodges
a.nd mee~s monthly. ·There are two paid employees, a secretary and partt1me ass.1stant. The total salary is $586.25 per annum. The secretary is
bonded m the sum of $1000.00. Fidelity and carrier insurance are carried
One automobile is used.
·
Balance on hand as per last report.................................................... $ 1,392.09
Receipts
Per capita assessments, local Lodges......:.........................$ 409.88
51.65
galifornia Lodges ..................................................................
ther Lodges in United States .......................................:.. 1,200.00
Foreign Lodges ......................................................................
35.00
44.79
Individuals ····················································------···-················
260.36
..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
16.74
7.50
Masonic Temple Association..........:...................................

2,025.92

Total receipts and balance on hand ...:........................................

$ 3,418.01

Disbursements
None
For relief, California Lodges....................:.........................
Other Lodges in United States...........:..............................$ 1,321.73
Foreign Lodges .....................:................................................
35.00
252.12
Funerals ·················································-································
586.25
Salaries ......................................................................................
67.50
· Rent ..........................................................................................
5.50
~~~r~~~: a::d b:'e~:'·;~···························································
27.88
3.00
17.73
~~nting an~ stationery.....................................................:::::
1.52
47.50
15.00
6.25
A udit ··············································:·········································
Taxes
.92
........................................................................................

2,387.90

Balance on hand July 31, 1942. ................................................... ~

$ 1,030.11

inut~~~:!s

~~i~~~~ ~~d·-~-t~ti~~~;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::~: '

San Bernardino
Arthur L. Spence, President
J: Her:bert Smith, Secretary-Treasurer
Board of Relief is composed of five members from each Lodge and
meets ten times yearly and on call when necessary. There are no paid
employees. The secretary-treasurer is bonded in the sum of $500.00.
Balance on hand as per last report .................................................:......$ 334.42
Receipts
Per capita assessments, local Lodges ........................•.......$
Grand Lodge of California..................................................
California Lodges ..................................................................
Other Lodges in United States ..........................................
Individuals ·········'····································································

~or relief, California L~dges..,,...........•............:...................$

171.75
52.50
34.55
75.80
43.58

Total receipts and balance on hand............................................ $

378.18
712.60

Post~ge ··················-~----~-~:::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·····

~~:~:f~:;:::~:::::::::::::::: : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : :

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Francisco
Leo Bruck, Secretary
E. E. Keough, President
Board of Relief is composed of the Master or representative of each
Lodge and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, a secretary,
who receives a salary of $200.00 per month; and a typist or clerk who
receives $45.00 per month. The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the
sum of $2000.00 each. Fidelity and carrier insuranc·e and compensation
insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report .........................:................_............ $14,412.26

Receipts
Per capita assessments, local Lodges.________ ,__ ....................$ 4,464.25
California Lodges ----·-··--·-·······-··········-···-·····---······-················ 2,058.21
Other Lodges in United States.......................................... 2,052.03
Foreign Lodges --··--··-·--·····-..···-··-'·-·..·--..-·..............................
110.00
Sale of stock.............-----·--·--·-··------··-·-··--··----··--·······---·····--·-···
992.50
Interest -···--·-·····--------···-----··-·····-·---·--·-:····--······-····-····--··-~-··· ·-451 .63
Total receipts and balance on hand ............................................

245.00
34.77
262.50
69.62
2.72
8.72
3.03

· Balance on hand July 31, 1942......................................................

626.36
$

887.91

Santa Barbara
Ralph C. Hine, President
Ira E. Kramer, Secretary

10,128.62
$24,540.88

Disbursements
For relief, California Lodges......................................... :....$ 1,891.75
Other Lodges in United States .......................................... 1,945.78
694.00
9,548.75
600.00
Contributed to employment service.................................~
52.88
Commission paid -'-····-·······--···········-·············-··-······················
Salaries ····--····················-······--····............................................. 3,540.00
360.00
Rent ····-··-·······················--····-········· ........, ..................................
28.79
Insurance and bond.·--········-···················--···························--·
200.92
Telephone and telegraph......................................................
51.71
Postage and stationery·-·····--······················-··-·········---····--·--·4.73
Office supplies -··------····---·---···--···---···-·--···-··----····--·····-·····--····600.00
-Auto expense ---·---·-····--···-·····-····-···---·-·-········-··-··--····-·--·--··-·--·
35.00
Audit ------·-·-·----···-·····----·-·--·-·::-··--,··---··-·····:·-:··----·················--··
24.80
Misce11aneous ·----··-···-··-··---·--·--·--··-·······-······-·-··--·-··················-

i:~=~~;d ~~d~:~~-iti·~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Board of Relief is composed of Master and Wardens of three Lodges
and meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the secretary who receives
$120.00 per year. The secretary and treasurer are bonded for $500.00 each.
Balance on hand as per last report....................................:............... $
47.38

Receipts
Per capita assessment in local Loges....•...........................$
Other Lodges in the United States..................................
Funeral reimbursements ......................................................
Individual reimbursements .......:........................................

107.40
240.00
320.80
5.00

Total receipts and balance on hand ............ :...............................

Disbursemcnts
Other Lodges in United States...........................................$
Funerals ·················································-···········-·········-········-·
Individuals-donations ........................................................
Sala'ries ·····-··-··-····-·-·····-·········-·---·······-·····································
Telegraph .....................,. ..., ..........................., ..........................

673.20
$

240.00
320.80
9.49
120.00
2.73

Balance on hand July 31, 1942......................................... ,............

720.58

693.02
$

27.56

19,579.12 .

Balance on hand July 31, 1942...--------·--···-.................................... $ 4,961.76
San Jose
E.- Wesley Johnson, President
Ray Lattin, Secretary
Board of Relief is composed of the Master and Wardens of six Lodges
and meets · quarterly. There is one paid employee, the secretary who
receives a salary of $25.00 per month. .The secretary and treasurer are
bontted in the amount of $1000.00 each. Automobile insurance is carried.
One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report·-·---·····-:·-·-·-···-··-·--···-··················· $ 666.79

R eceipts
P er capita assessment, local Lodges..................................$
Other Lodges in United States·-·-·-··-···-···---····-··················
Miscellaneous ····-·-······-····-····-·,·············-··············---····--·'..........

Disbursements
Other Lodges in United States·-·····-~-·---·-····-·-·--···--·····-···-$
Printing and stationery..·-·-················-·-····-·····-············--······
Salaries -···-··--···-·············-··-···-···-··········-··--··-·-·----······--·--··-·-·-··Miscellaneous --···-·······-··-·························-··--·-·········-·······-·······
Traveling expense ·············-···--··-··-.-·--···-·------··············--········
Telephone and telegraph ...................................................:..
Postage ····-················-··-····-·····-·-···-·······---······-······-··-···-···········

329

504.98
250.00
92.50

847.48

Total receipts and balance on hand_. .....·-··-·-·---··-·--····--·············-

$ 1,514.27

Santa Monica
D. C. Freeman, President
W. A. Blackburn, Secretary
Board of Relief is composed of two members from seven Lodges and
holds meetings monthly. There is one paid employee, a secretary who
receives $180.00 per annum. The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the
amount of $500.00 each.
Balance on hand as per last report...................................................... $ 114.85

R eceipts
P er capita assessment, local Lodges ................................$
Other Lodges in United States ..........................................
Individuals ·······················-····-·····--------···--·---··-··-······-··-··-········
Refunds ··-··-···········································--·-·······························
M iscellaneous -··-····-·---·············-··················-··-···-·····················

541.50
197.43
31.00
63.12
7.60

Total receipts and balance on hand ...·-·--························---·--------

840.65
$

955.50

330

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disb1'rsemen.ts
Other Lodges in United States........•, ................................$
Funerals·····-··-'-······-·······························································
Printing and stationery..........................................................
Supplies .....-... ~................................................................•........
Expense ······~---······································································
Salaries -----············································································
Audit .......................................................,................................

223.43
73.42
9.02
24.00
247.50
145.00
10.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1942......................................................

Merv Hanshaw, President

732.37

---$

223.13

Stockton
Walter C. Champreaux, Sr., Secretary

Board of Relief is composed of the Master and Wardens from four
Lodge·s and meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the secretary
who receives a salary of $20.00 per month.
Balance on hand as per last report.................................................... $
52.12
R eceipts
Per capita assessment, local Lodges................................$
California Lodges ····································--················-··········
Other Lodges in United States....................,..................c••
Funerals !..................... _. ............................................................
Individuals ............................•...........•.....................................

240.19
3.87
17.24
30.00
5.50

296.80

- - --

Total receipts and balance on hand............................................ $
_
,
. . Disbursements
30 00
Funerals ··-~··.····························································:·····-·········$
19_4g
Printing and stationery........................................................
_00
240
Salaries ···········································-·······································
Individuals ..............................................................................
2~:~~
Telephone and telegraph....•................:.............:..........:.......
1.19
Postage .............................·.........................................,............. _ _ _
_
Balance on hand July 31, 1942..............................................................

348.92

321.14
$

27.78

REPORT OF CONSTITUTION MONTH
OBSERVANCE COMMITTEE
T 0 the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Calif ornia:
Your Committee on Constitution Month Observance _rep?rts in confirmation of oral reports presented at the current communicat10n: . .
This committee has two functions: ( 1) the observan_c~ ?f Constitution
Month in September, and (2) the promotion of war acttv1t1es on the part
of California Masonry.
These functions will be segregated in this report.
A t the outset we wish to express appreciation. to the members of the
speakers panel to Lodge committees and to others who have so ge~erously
and effective!; contributed to the prosecution of the wo~k. ?f this committee. A single speakers panel has been used for _all acttv1ttes; response
has been prompt and satisfactory whenever assistance was requested
from the panel.

' 33,l

This committee originally was appointed in 1940 by Grand Master
Whitsell for the purpose of fostering the observance by Lodges of
"Constitution Day." The period of observance was extended to the entire
month of September due to the impracticability of use of a specific concurrent day by all Lodges. The work of the committee to date of the 1941
Communication is embodied in the report presented at that communication.
On December 7, 1941, there occurred the attack on Pearl Harbor
with the subsequen~ declaration of war. ·
Following the tragedy of Pearl Harbor and the declaration of war,
Grand Master Smith advised this committee that in his judgment proper
action should be taken to foster war activities on the part of the membership of the Lodges in this jurisdiction and delegated to this committee
the responsibility for that effort.
On January 11, 1942, a meeting was held at San Francisco for the
consideration of this extended activity of the committee. There were in
attendance at this meeting the Grand Master and the Deputy Grand
Master; also the General Chairman, Vice Chairmen and other members of
the committee, together with Brother James B. Blum, Secretary of the
Oakland Scottish Rite bodies. Brother Blum originated a suggestion for
Masonic war activities contemplating primarily activity on the part of the
Scottish Rite bodies in this vicinity. As a result of that suggestion, active
work on the part of this Grand Lodge was initiated.
The <:;rand Master, on February 10, 1942, issued a proclamation to
the Masons of this jurisdiction calling upon them to play their part in
war activities and authorizing this committee to promote that movement.
This order is embodied in his own report.
Blacl~-outs, dim-outs and Army regulations have restricted the attendance at meetings. Necessarily these regulations have also interfered with
joint meetings, both public and closed. However, we feel that the brethren
of this jurisdiction have creditably acquitted themselves in this emergency.
The report of the committee is segregated as to its concurrent duties.
War Activities
Pursuant to the proclamation of the Grand Master, this committee,
on February 10, 1942, issued a letter to the brethren of the jurisdiction
embodying suggestions for the effectuation of the purposes of the order
of the Grand Master. A copy of that letter is attached to this report as
Exhibit A.
It was the desire of the Grand Master tha.t the initial meetings in all
Lodges be tiled: Subsequent meetings were open to the public in a desire
to promote war activities on the part of the general citizenship of Caliornia. Although a speakers panel was maintained, the Lodges were
requested· to use local speakers so far as practical.
On March 17, 1942, the committee issued a further letter to the
brethren. This letter speaks for itself and is attached to this report as
Exhibit B.
On May 25, 1942, a third letter was issued by the committee and
which also speaks ·for itself and is attached to this report as Exhibit C.
Accompanying this letter was a copy of the regulations issued under
authority of the War Department r egulating public meetings. It is unnecessary to embody these regulations in the report; their cohtents are well
known and for the present their purpose has been served.

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Statistics
By reason of the nature of the activities, the presentation of detailed
statistics is impractical. The only definite statistical details available cover
purchase of bonds by the Lodges themselves. They do not even include
individual purchases which may have been inspired by Lodge activities,
· nor do they cover other war activities which were inspired or accelerated
by the work which has been done un der the proclamation of the Grand
Master as conducted by this committee. Merely by way of illustration,
we suggest the following:
a. One Lodge reported that prior to the May letter issued by this
committee 30 per cent of its members had contributed to the Blood Bank.
b. Another Lodge reported that members of the Lodge familiar with
the various war activities, including those suggested by this committee,
directed the attention of Lodge membership to the respective activities
and addressed the Lodge at regular intervals upon the various lines of
work to be accomplished.
c. Another Lodge arranged for presentation of the work by duly
qualified speakers at each stated meeting.
d. In an.o ther Lodge a check at a meeting held as early as June
showed that 100 per cent of those present were engaged in some form of
war work and that practically all of the items listed in the committee's
letter were represented in the work of the membership.
e. In another Lodge one of the members was a postoffice employee
who brought stamps and defense bonds to the Lodge. He made sales in
the ante room resulting in defense stamp sales of approximately $175 and
· defense bonds aggregating some $5000. This Lodge has a membership
of 220.
f. In another Lodge dinners were held at which the brethren in
attendance paid 25c each toward the expense but received in return a 25c
defense stamp.
g. As early as May 1st the children at the Covina Home from their
· own small savings purchased $4375 in bonds and stamps.
· h. A report from the superintendent of the Covina Home shows in
detail a very substantial number of Covina boys who are in active service,
all of whom have acquitted themselves creditably, and most of whom are
. commissioned officers.
i. A recent report from Honolulu shows that the island Lodges have
purchased $55,300 of defense bonds and are "still going strong."
It is interesting to note that the most encouraging reports have come
from relatively small Lodges. Whether this is due to closer contact among
the brethren or because of greater . activity where a smaller membership
· is involved is a question as to which differences of opinion doubtless wo1,1ld
exist.
·
Reports have been requested as to the purchase of war bonds. 'As
above stated, these reports necessarily are limited to purchases by Lodges
themselves and do not include purchases by individual members which
have been inspired by Lodge meetings or Lodge committees. From these
reports we furnish the following compilation :
One hundred forty-five lodges report holdings of war bonds on January 1, 1942, amounting to $513,095.50.
Fifty Lodges have made no report whatever. This indicates either a
lack of interest on .the part of the Lodges or such ineffectiveness on the
part of the officers .that no attempt has been made to render a report of
any kind.

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

333

Ninety-fo1;1r Lodges report that they hold no war bonds. Presumptively
the same applies to th'e Lodges who have failed to report.
Fo_ur hundred thirty-eight Lodges have reported total holdings of war
bonds 1n the sum of $1,173,436.45.
. . Seventy-one Lodges have reported investments aggregating $285 443.70
·
'
m government bonds other than war issues.
!hree hundred seventy-seven Lodges have reported that they have no
holdmgs of government bonds other than. war issues.
·
f'.ven if w_e assume that the instrumentality of Grand Lodge has been
effective only in the purchase of war bonds, and if we confine the effectiveness _of Gran~ 1;-odge acti~ties to purchases subsequent to January 1, 1942, ·
and if we eliminate possible purchases by Lodges which have failed to
report, and als? eliminate individual purchases which have been inspired
by Lod~e meetings and Lodge committees, we find that the work of Grand
Lod~e. ~n th~ promotion of this single war activity has resulted in the
acqu1s1tt~n since J~n uary 1, 1942, by California Lodges of war bonds
aggregating approximately $660,340.95.
Constitution Month
· The original purpo~e ~f this committee was, and still is, to promote
peace--:-n~t war. Constitution Month is dedicated to the preservation of
the principles of individual liberty, freedom of conscience, speech and
press, and othe~ res1;1l_ts of the doctrine that government is maintained for
the b~nefit of its . citizens, as distinguished from ·citizenship which is a
mere mstrumentahty for the benefit of government. These principles have
come down to us through the struggles, sacrifice and blood of untold
thousands of our forebea~s during the centuries of history. Limited
autocrac~ and bureaucrac~ 1s. necessary for the prosecution of war. When
the wa'. is. ~ver th_e C~nst1tut1on of the U nited States and the maintena·n ce
of the md1v1dual liberties which it represents will still be the If t
I
of
A
·
· ·
C
u 1ma e goa
~very men~an citizen.
onstitution Month is dedicated to the preservation of that liberty.
.
In the co~mittee letter of May 25, 1942 (Exhibit C), attention was
calle~ t? the importance of Constitution Month as such and to the fact
that 1! is a peace and no~ a war activity. This was supplemented by a

com?1~ttee letter of A ugust 24, 1942, which is attached to this report as
Exh1b1t D.

'

Because of ~he . short interval between Constitution Month and the
pres~nt Commumca_tton of Grand Lodge, complete statistid of September
meetings are unavailable. However, the following will indicate in general
the trend of the meetings which were held.
Seventy open meetings. Attendance 5997.
One hundred seventy-two closed meetings. Attendance 7614.
Twenty-six joint meetings of which 16 were open and 10 were closed.
Ten Lodges held separate meetings as well as participating· in one or·
more joint meetings.
.
Six Lodges report inability to hold a meeting. .
Two hundred fifty-six Lodges have fai led to report' to date.
Total attendance at open meetings, 8021.
Total attendance at closed meetings, 8341.
Aggregate attendance at open and closed meetings held by 320 Lodg s
16,362. ·
e ~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In war or in peace, the first privilege and function of citizenship is
to vote. In the letter of May 25, 1942, we mentioned the fact that in 1896
80 per cent of the qualified electorate voted for a President of the United
States, and that this shrank progressively during a period of less than
thirty years to 49 per cent. Later statistics were not then available. At
primary and special elections the percentage is far below these figures.
We are fortunate if 25 per cent of the electors vote at the primary; The
voters at the primary determine the candidates for office and the selection
of candidates too frequently is decided by a minority vote with the result
that less than 25 per cent of the qualified electors determine the officers
who shall exercise governmental powers. Masonry is not a political institution, but Masonry is an institution designed to perpetuate individual liberty
and the exercise by the man on the street of the functions of government.
It was hoped by the committee that it would be possible to promote
among the Masons of California a plan whereby they and those whom they
might be able to influence would participate in the electoral franchise to
the extent of voting at the last primary election in this state. It is the
belief of this committee that if this plan had been promulgated, some of
the candidates for office in California in whom a large number of Masons
believe, would have been elected at the primary instead of being compelled
to go through a second campaign at the general election. This does not
involve the endorsement of any candidate or political activity on the part
of any Lodge other than to urge that every American citizen exercise his
electoral franchise for whomsoever or whatsoever he may choose to vote.
Your committee was requested to refrain from a specific attempt to
increase the vote at the primary and therefore refrained from that effort.
However, we rcommend to our successor members on this committee that
well in advance of every primary election the electorate represented by or
who can be influenced by the Masons of California be urged to participate
in every primary election and that similar efforts be made in connection
with general elections.
In several instances it has been suggested that a constitutional talk
wholly divorced from Masonry may be presented in our public schools in
the same manner as that in which Public Schools meetings are conducted.
These suggestions deserve consideration by subsequent committees.
Present-day conditions necessarily result in limited attendance and
fewer meetings. This situation emphasizes the importance of an active
committee in each Lodge composed of men who will take their responsibilities seriously and who will .reach the members of the Lodge. ·
We do not list any ' Lodge in the jurisdiction for either praise or
blame, nor do we list any Lodge which has failed to definitely participate
in war activities or which has lacked even the interest to present the
requested reports. We give full credit to those Lodges and their officers
whose patriotism has inspired results for our country in the greatest war
in its history and which represents a crisis in world civilization. Those
Lodges and those officers who have failed to participate are aware of the
fact without the listing of names in this report; it is not for this committee
to pass judgment upon them.
This report is largely historical and statistical, but your committee
feels that the subject is of sufficient importance to make the matters above
recited a part of the permanent record of Grand Lodge.
Notwithstanding the other war activities of Grand Lodge, including
War Relief and Masonic Service, and particularly in view of the duty of

this committee to endeavor through Grand Lodge membership to perpetuate the principles, duties and privileges which are exemplified in the
Constitution of the United States, we believe that this committee is a
useful instrumentality of Grand Lodge. The expense of its work is small.
We therefore recommend:
·
1. That this committee be continued for the coming year and thereafter subject to discontinuance by order of Grand Lodge, and
2. That a reasonable appropriation, either in the discretion of the
Grand Master or as determined by Grand Lodge, be made for the work
of the committee during the coming .Grand Lodge year.

334

335

Respectfully submitted,

LEO E. ANDERSON, Chairman,
LEE T. MULLEN,
JOHN T. MARTIN,
FRED P. RouLLARD,
So11thern Committee.

ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
General Chairman.
WESLEY W. KERGAN, Chairman,
A. c. WOLLENBERG,
s. F. WORSWICK,
A. F. SOUZA, JR.,
Northern Committee.

EXHIBIT A
February 10, 1942.

To the Masters of the Several Lodges of This J11risdiction:
Worshipful Brethren:
We are at war!
The Grand Master has issued a proclamation calling upon our Lodges
to actively promote the various movements which are necessary to the
prosecution of the present war. From his proclamation, it will be seen that
he is interested not only in the demands which are made upon us at this
time, but also in the preservation of normal American morale, both during
the war, as well as during the critical period, which will follow the termination of the war. He has delegated to the Constitution Month Committee
of Grand Lodge the responsibility for informing the Lodges of his desires
and aspirations in this connection. The following categorically details the
general purpose of the Grand Master. This letter is issued with his
approval, and for all purposes is to be deemed authoritative concurrently
with the proclamation which he has issued to the Lodges.
1. The only spec'ific general patriotic observance by the Masons of
California heretofore has been Constitution Month in September. The
Grand Master's proclamation voices the sentiment of the jurisdiction that
we cannot delay for months in bringing to our brethren the importance of
the crisis which confronts us, and the traditional part which Masons may
play in meeting that crisis.
2. Each Master receives two copies of the proclamation and two
copies of this communication. One copy is intended for the use of the
Lodge. The other copy should be delivered for information and instruction
to the speaker at your Lodge meeting.
3. It is the order of the Grand Master that a closed meeting of the
Lodge for the presentation of this subject matter be held at once-preferably at the March stated meeting.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF. CALIFORNIA

4. The proclamation calls attention to the fact that this meeting is
· of sufficient importance to justify, and in fact to require, the issuance of a
special notice to each member of the Lodge for the purpose of obtaining
adequate attendance.
5. Each Master is required to appoint a committee to promote patriotic
activities on the part of each Lodge collectively and its members as individuals, to act throughout the duration of the war. Appoint a committee
which means business and which will discharge its responsibility. There
will be future meetings and expanding efforts on the part of California
Masonry.
6. Each Lodge is expected to obtain its own speaker. There is no
Lodge in this jurisdiction which does not have upon its rolls a member
who is competent and willing to present so yital a suggestion. Each Lodge
is expected to consider the matter as a separate unit in the same manner
that any other important business of the particular Lodge is given personal
attention at a stated meeting. Because Constitution Month is designed to
ultimately com_m and the attention of communities in general, this committee advocated the holding of joint meetings open to the public. The
present situation is one in which we must as individual Lodges and individual Masons put our shoulders to the wheel to protect our institutions
and our freedom. This committee has a panel of speakers mainly confined
to the larger centers of population. If necessary, recourse may be had to
that panel. If such necessity arises, apply to the Grand Secretary, Masonic
Temple, San Francisco, or to the various members of the committee in
their respective localities, at the addresses appearing upon this letterhead.
In connection with the observance of Constitution Month, several
typical addresses were prepared for reference by local speakers, or, if
necessary, for presentation verbatim at a Lodge meeting. The scope of
the present subject is so broad and the approach so varied that it is
impractical to prepare typical addresses. Therefore, this letter will merely
suggest the points to be covered and indicate sources of reference if the
· speaker is not already informed. The speaker, however, should bear in
mind that at the conclusion of his remarks an opportunity will be afforded
for questions by the membership, and he should be fully informed as to
details of the various war activities so that he may intelligently answer
these questions even though he does not cover details in his own remarks.
Do not fail to furnish each speaker with a copy of the Grand Master's
proclamation and this letter.
Information may be obtained as follows:
(a) Defense bonds and war savings stamps; at any postoffice or bank.
(b) Civilian defense; consult the local. Defense Committee. The defense
plans vary so much throughout the state that any general detailed presentation is impractical; conform to loca'l usage. The Attorney-General has a
suggested form for a local ordinance covering this subject, but it has not
been universally followed. Pamphlet No. 1 has been issued by the State
Council of Defense upon the general subject matter of Civilian Defense.
For copies of the ordinance form, write the Attorney-General of California,
addressed to his office at State Building, Civic Center, San Francisco,
California. Pamphlet No. I is instructive; for copies write State Council
·of Defense, Sacramento, California.
(c) Army and Navy recruiting; consult the nearest Recruiting Office.
(d) Red Cross; consult the Red Cross Committee.
( e) First Aid; consult local agencies or the Red Cross.
7. Lodges are not permitted to subscribe funds handled by other
organizations such as the Red Cross, however worthy they may be. How-

ever, ~odges may invest their funds., whether life membership, or other
funds, tn defense bonds and war savings stamps.
8. :t-lo solicitations for bond purchases, contributions, or other purposes, shall be made in the Lodges. It is the function of the Lodge to
promote interest and urge participation in all war activities, but the Grand
Master's proclamation prohibits direct .solicitation as such. lt is a function
of the Lodge committee, however, to a.dopt such means as suggest themselves, either through communications to the members, or otherwise, for
the purpose of inspiring the members to discharge the duty which rests
upon them at this time as American citizens.
9. All of the foregoing matters should be emphasized by each speaker,
but in addition to the emphasis upon these movements and a general appeal
for preservation of our institutions and liberties, it is urged by the Grand
Master and this committee as his representative that special emphasis be
placed upon:
(a) The maintenance of public morale. The events at Pearl Harbor
and the inadequate supply of war equipment, with the prospects of war
taxes and restrictions upon civilian use of various commodities, tend to
create an atmosphere of depression. We must learn the lesson which
England learned in the early days of the war-that we must face the
future with courage and determination.
.
(b) Anticipate the maintenance of morale following the close of the
war. When the battle is over and victory is won, the fruits of victory
must be carried through the years so that we may reap the full harvest
of institutions and freedom which have been adequately defended and
which must . be passed unimpaired as a heritage to the generations which
succeed our own.
Masons have ever upheld the banners of truth and Justice and liberty.
In what is perhaps the most critical period of human history, we must not
fail. If we cannot worthily maintain the traditions of those who have gone
before and play an outstanding part and take an advance position in maintaining national freedom and individual liberty, we may as well close the
Lodge in fear and trembling at the distant prospect of a conquering tyrant.
If we do not rise to the full stature of manhood and Masonry, our high
sounding phrases within the Lodge are no more than sounding brass and .
tinkling cymbal.
Important
Rep?rt at once the government holdings of your Lodge as of January
1, 1942, tf you have not already done so in response to the request of the
Grand Secretary.
Immediately after the meeting, forward a report per form enciosed
furnishing statistics as to the meeting in your respective Lodge.
Forward these reports to the Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, 25
Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco. Do not send them to the members of
the committee.
Fraternally yours, for the committee,

336

337

ROTIERT B. GAYLORD,

General Chainnan.

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA ·

339.

EXHIBIT B
To the Masters of This Jurisdiction :
Worshipful Brethren:

March 17, 1942.

Reports indicate that all Lodges in the jurisdiction desire to use every
effort to promote the defense work which the Grand Master has delegated
to Constitution Month Committee, and many of them seek suggestions as
to the most efficient procedure.
The following quotations are taken from a letter forwarded by the
Master of Indian Rock Lodge of Berkeley. They afford food for thought,
and the Grand Master feels that they are of sufficient value to justify
authority to our committee to distribute this letter among the Lodges.
We commend the extracts to the Master and the committee of each
Lodge, and suggest that this letter be read to the Lodge at" a convenient
time when a substantial membership is in attendance. It will also be of
valu.e to speakers who present defense activities to the Lodge from time
to time.
.
"As you will notice from the enclosed report, we had an official
attendance of fifty-two of our members and also a handful of visit~
ing brethren whom we were glad to have present. Our Lodge's
membership at the present time is one hundred and twenty-five.
. "Our defense program has barely been launched, but it is the
wish of the members that we hold such a meeting at least once a
month, and it is my hope that I will be able to do so. I analyzed
the letter from the Constitutional Observance Committee and tried
to buil~ mine around the plan therein stated. Brother John McKee,
P . M., 1s my chairman, and chose "Morale" as his particular field.
It is putting it mildly when I say that he jarred everyone present
out of his complacency and sent him home thinking.
"I am fortunate enough to have one of the city's leading doctors for a member. He was more than glad to accept a place and
handle .all Red Cross and First Aid work. His talk was probably
the high-light of the evening. In addition to these two brethren
I have appointed a man who is well-known among us in civi~
affairs, to handle civilian defense. A newspaper man who is the
local head of a national organization, and one brother who has
campaigned throughout the East Bay on Defense Bonds and
Stamps, make up the rest of the committee.
"On the day following the meeting my chairman telephoned
me and informed me that the committee had been working all
afternoon on one activity which was mentioned by the doctor. He
laid particular stress at the time on the desperate need for blood
donors to our blood bank. His taik left a tremendous impression.
A number of the brethren already have taken this matter to heart
personally in a short few days. Brother McKee is so enthusiastic
ov.er this ~ne particular angle that he has asked me to write you
this letter in the hope that you will accept it in · the spirit in which
it is offered. We have no desire to tell our Grand Master or Grand
Lodge how ~at~ers should be done, yet we feel that you will acceptour suggestion m the same way that our Lodge accepted it from ·
our doctor. We did not know how desperately our help is needed
or how important it is. Realizing this now, and also how relative!;
small our group is, we see the vast possibilities of presenting this
matter to every Mason in California. If they could only see the

need and benefit that would derive from their donations of blood
to the blood bank, we feel sure they would make deposits as soon
and as often as physically possible. If our fraternity were to do
only this one thing, we feel that our war effort would be very, very
worth while."
The Grand Master confirms the understanding of the committee that
it is not mandatory that meetings for defense purposes be closed, although
he hopes that the initial meeting will be closed. In the discretion of the
Lodges, subsequent meetings may be open to the families of mem~ers
or to the general public. If open meetings are held, care should be exercised
that their scope falls within the lines defined in the proclamation and the
original committee letter; that there be no violation of the laws of our
institution, either as to the taking of subscriptions at the meeting, concurrent entertainment, or other interference with the dignity of the occasion ;
and (to quote the language of the Grand Master) "no compulsion shall be
allowed on anyone." The Grand Master also feels that no discussion shall
be permitted at any meeting, whether public or private, except as it is
constructive and not critical.
Fraternally yours,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
General Chairman.

EXHIBIT C
May 25, 1942.
To the Masters, Officers and Brethren of This Jurisdiction:
The results among the Lodges under the proclamation of the .Grand
Master covering war activities has been gratifying,. but our effort must
not relax until peace has been declared. It is impossible to present an
adequate statistical report other than the number of Lodge meetings which
have been held and the results in purchase of war securities.
More than two-thirds of the Lodges have reported at least one meeting. We urge that the remaining Lodges forward a report of meetings
which have been held or are held in the immediate future. The attendance
has been excellent.
At the last tabulation of reports of war bonds and war stamps purchases, returns ·were made by 402 Lodges, showing purchases since January
1, 1942, aggregating $499,110.70. This represents purchases by Lodges
themselves, and does not include purchases by members or purchases
which were inspired by Lodge activities. Prior to January 1, 1942, 324
Lodges held no government bonds other than war bonds. Two hundred
twenty-four Lodges held no government securities .Prior to January 1,
1942. One hundred fifty-seven Lodges have failed to make a report regarding bond purchases. One hundred eighty Lodges have failed to make a
report regarding the amount of bonds purchased since January 1, 1942.
The reported holdings of war securities prior to January 1, 1942, is
$489,120. Therefore, since the prosecution of this work through the Lodges
in the jurisdiction, the holdings of war securities have more than doubled.
General MacArthur is quoted as stating that during the siege of
Bataan the defense troops each assigned one month's pay for the purchase
of war securities.
From their pennies the children at the Covina Home purchased, prior
to May 1, 1942, $4,375.00 in defense bonds.
Instances such as these should inspire us to renewed efforts to sustain
our country during the war.

341

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The committee is informed that some of the Lodges hesitate to invest
in war bonds because of possible insecurity of the investment. This fear
is sufficiently answered by stating that 50 per cent of the entire issue of
government securities is held by the commercial and savings banks of the
country and that these investments represent probably 40 per cent of the
entire assets of the banks. If government bonds are insecure, it is difficult
to conceive of any investment which under these circumstances possesses
a value.

m . Join in the house-to-house canvass for purchase of war securities.
Information as to how the members can serve may be obtained from any
war savings committee.
n. Remember that Lodges may invest their own funds in securities.
Members of the Lodge as individuals may invest and may urge others to
invest. Lodges are not authorized to accept bond subscriptions, nor
should they solicit payment to the Lodge by individuals of funds for other
worthy sources, such as the Red Cross. However, there is every rea~on
why the members as individuals should promote all worthy accumulat10n
of funds.
6. Lodge committees should serve as a continuing reminder of the
necessity for action as requirements continue or hereafter ·a rise. The committee should report at each stated meeting.
7. Regulations for the conduct of meetings have been promulgated
under the authority of the Army. A copy of these regulations accompanies
this letter.
8. While it was desired that the initial meeting in Lodges be private,
no occasion exists for the continuance of that policy. Conforming to the
precedent of Public Schools Week? we should foster ~e:ti~g~ at which
our families are present and to which the general public 1s mv1ted. Such
meetings cannot fail to promote patriotism. On the other h.and, there may
be suggestions the presentation of which are more appropriate at a closed
meeting. The opportunity for service is illustrated by a P?pula~ spea~er
in the Bay region who has addressed a number of meetings, mcludmg
(by special invitation) the Holy Names Society of a well-known Catholic
church.
9. Some Lodges have made a small charge for serving refreshments,
the charge to be payable in war savings stamps; others have collected the
cash and issued a war savings stamp to the respective brothers.
10. An excellent opportunity for s~rvice to both our Homes and the
cause of the war is to suggest contributions to the endowment fund of
the Homes payable in war bonds or war savings stamps.

340

The committee is also advised that some of the Lodges feel that
previous communications have not been ·sufficiently specific. We shall
endeavor to make this report specific, and we humbly suggest that if the
Lodges of this jurisdiction will observe all the recommendation,s of this
report, they will find themselves sufficiently occupied for the duration.
If the Masonic Lodges of the country will follow a tithe of the points
which we shall cover, our present contribution will compare well with the
contribution which was made by our fraternity during Revolutionary days
and in the development of American institutions.
1. If you have not appointed a committee on war activities, appoint
one.
2. At least once a month arrange for competent presentation of some
subject matter by one or two speakers.
3. Use speakers who are familiar with their subjects. Oratory is
unnecessary, but plain facts are essential. In every community there are
men who are familiar with some phase of war activity.
4. If additional information is necessary, it should be obtained from
local agencies; throughout the state the procedure varies with the locality
and the size of the community.
5. There are any number of subjects which may be discussed. The
Grand Lodge of 1ndiana has suggested 36 subjects. We summarize them
with other subjects in the following tabulation: it is obvious that each
article in the tabulation is susceptible of segregation into subjects:
a. Blood bank. This is one of the most important services which can
be rendered; but in the main it has received too little emph asis. A s an
illustration of what can be done, one Lodge reports that 30 per cent of
its members have contributed to the bank.
b. Purchase of government' bonds and war savings stamps.
c. Civilian defense, including auxiliary police, air raid warden service1
and auxiliary fire protection.
d. Red Cross m aintenance and first aid education.
e. Repair service in event of attack, including salvage, demolition, and
emergency repairs.
f. Ambulance and hospital service, including advance preparation of
dressings and other medical requisites."
g. Army and Navy recruiting. ·
h. Plans for shelter and service of food with care of children in the
event of emergency.
i. Collection of scrap metals for war use.
j. Provision of libraries and reading materials for members of the
armed forces and others.
k. Clerical assistance where regular government agencies are
inadequate.
I. Enforcement of government requirements for rationing and maximum sales prices.

Reports
1. Please report periodically to the Grand Secretary th~ numb.er and
character of meetings held and the attendance. Also keep him advised of
additional subscriptions by the Lodge to war bonds.
2. Please send these reports to the Grand Secretary, Masonic Te~ple,
San Francisco. That office is ' .the clearing house for the committee.
Although this same request was emphas,ized at the close of the original
letter and although the same request was boxed at the bottom of the
printed form of report, many Lodges sent their reports to members of
t he committee.
3. While we emphasize a report of bond purchases, we equally emphasize suggestions on items of interest which develop in the Lo~ges ~r at
the meetings. For that reason a printed form for second report 1s omitted
from this communication.

Constitution Month-September
The efforts which Grand Lodge is promoting under the head of war
activities interfere in no way with the observance of Constitution Month.
All current efforts are designed to promote th e prosecution of the war.
The observance of Constitution Month is designed to foster .the perpetuation of hum~n liberty and individual action which are a heritage through

342

PROCEEDI.NGS OF THE

_the centuries from the sacrifice, the str~ggles and the blood of those who
have gone before and which are defined, at least in part, in the Constitution
of the United States and in its Bill of Rights. Some hundred years ago
Lord Tennyson said:
"For I dipt into the future, far as human eye could see,
Saw the Vision of the world, and all the wonder that would be;
Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic sails,
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales;
Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rain'd a ghastly dew
From the nations' airy navies grappling in the central blue;
Far along the world-wide whisper of the south-wind rushing warm,
With the standards of the peoples plunging thro' the thunder-storm;
Till the war-drum throbb'd. no longer, and the battle-flags were furl 'd
In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world."
Since the days of Lord Tennyson the heavens have been filled with
corpmerce, there have fallen from them the ghastly dew created by grappling navies, and we have seen the plunge of standards through the thunder
storm ; sooner or later the war drums will throb no longer and the battle
flags will be furled. When that time arrives, inevitably we must face a
new alignment of nations and a probable reconstruction of A~erican
society. We hope and believe that in that realignment of nations our
country will play a dominant part. \Vhether, however, there be victory or
defeat, the restoration of the constitutional relationships in our own land
as we have known them through the years rests with us. The necessities
of war disturb the normal conduct of our society and it is for free men
to firmly determine that when the war is over individual American freedom .s hall be restored to its pristine character. To that principle Masonry
is consecrated and for its accomplishment we must strive. Constitution
Month is dedicated not to war, but to peace ; it is dedicated to the constitutional freedom of the individual.
It is not too early to prepare plans for the proper observance of
Con~titution Month. It is hoped that so far as practical arrangements will
be made for a public meeting at which an appropriate address will be made
by a competent speaker. The details of his remarks are in his discretion
provided he emphasizes the value and the perpetuation of the principle~
of the Constitution of the United States.
Nor is it too early to emphasize to our citizens the value of the
electoral franchise. Recent statistics are not immediately available, but
we find that in 1896 80 per cent of the qualified electorate voted for a
President of the United States.· In 1900 this percentage shrank to 73 per
cent; in 1908 to 66 per cent, and in 1924 it fell to 49 per cent. At primary
elections and special proceedings for bonds or similar issues, the percentage
is far below these figures. We are fortunate if 25 per cent of the electors
vote at a primary election. The voters at the primary election determine
the candidates for office, · and the selection among the candidates for office
is too frequently decided by a minority vote. The net result of such a
situation is that less than 25 per cent of the electors of the country determine the officers who shall exercise governmental powers. · It is a far cry
from this situation to the pioneers of the Declaration of Independence and
the War of 1776. If our citizens line themselves as consistently for the
exercise of the election franchise as they take their place for a sugar ration,
there need be no fear for the future of our land or for the perpetuation
of American institutions.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

343

General
Two copies of this report go to each Lodge, one for the Master and
the other for the Lodge committee. Copies also will be forwarded to all
speakers whose names appear upon our panel. Additional copies for other
speakers may be obtained by application at the office of the Grand
Secretary.
·
The Grand Master authorizes an order that this report be promptly
read at an early available meeting at which there is a representative attendance of Lodge members.
NOTE: Note. Reports continually come from Lodges stating that much
of the war work can be done better by individuals than by a Lodge. We
do not expect a Lodg_e, as an organization, to contribute to a blood bank.
It has no veins. The only activity in which a Lodge can engage as an
organization is the investmenf of its own funds. However, there is no
reason why Lodges cannot hold meetings at which the war activities. are
presented and in connection with which the members are urged to participate as individuals, whether by way of contribution or by way of service.
For the committee,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
General Chairman.
EXHIBIT D
August 24, 1942.
To the Masters; Inspectors, Speakers Panel, and Brethren
of This Jurisdiction :
Constitution Month Observance
September is Constitution Month in this jurisdiction. Advance notice
was issued in May. In the interests of economy this letter is addressed
to and will be received by Masters, Inspectors and Speakers Panel instead
of separate communications, and it is hoped that each addressee will regard
this as a personal communication.
Lodges already have received several commu·nications upon the subject
of war activities. As previously suggested, Constitution Month is definitely
distinct from meetings to promote war activities. When the war is over
we face a period of reconstruction more vital than the problems of the
Sixties and more difficult of solution. War necessarily involves autocratic
powers, but even if a successful war be waged that success is valueless
if it fails to preserve and perpetuate for ourselves as well as for the world
at large the institutions which are declared in the Constitution of the
United States. Constitution Month is devoted not to war activities but to
that human liberty and right of individual initiative which is our heritage
from centuries of sacrifice and blood-the priceless heritage of freedomthat we shall have government by law and not of men.
Without repetition, we request that each brother to whom this letter
is addressed re-read that portion of the May letter..which refers to Constitution Month.
·
Meetings-We repeat prior suggestions that so far as possible meetings be public, conforming to similar custom for Public Schools Week.
It is the purpose of September meetings to promote' general conception
of and regard for the privileges of Americ;an citizenship. In May, copies
of existing regulations for public meetings were f6rwarded to all Lodges.

344

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In general those regulations still control, but local authorities · should be
consulted for present regulations. Dim-out regulations may reduce attendance, but the subject is of sufficient importance for our Lodges to seek
such general attendance as may be obtainable.
Speakers-The committee assumes that so far as possible those who
have been listed in the previous Speakers Panel will willingly under existing
conditions render such assistance as may be possible. To date there has
been only limited occasion to call upon this panel, but the committee takes
this opportunity to express its appreciation to every speaker who has permitted his name to be listed. Necessarily, speakers cannot travel any
extended distance for the purpose of attending meetings. Several prepared
speeches ;i.re available to speakers for suggested discussion. If a speaker
is unavailable for a meeting, one of these prepared addresss may be read
by a competent member of the Lodge. For copies of addresses appropriate
to the particular circumstances, apply to the regional chairman or to the
Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Committees-Two copies of this letter are forwarded to each Master.
On~ copy is for the Constitution Month Committee. If no committee has
been appointed, appoint a committee at once; if there is an existing committee, see that it acts and that it is not merely a decorative list of names
in the Lodge minutes.
State .Election-There will be an election in this state in November.
The normal apathy in voting occurs on the part of the better class of
citizens, while the party boss and those who take his orders go to the
polls. See that every member of every Lodge ca~ts his ballot. There can
be no activity for any Constitution Month Committee more important
than promoting an attendance for five minutes at the polls on the part of
every member whose name appears upon the roster.
Reports-Enclosed is a report form. Please:
(a) Forward it promptly.
(b) Send it to the Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, 25 Van Ness
Avenue, San Francisco. Do not send it to the committee.
Get Busy: Reconstruction of American institutions following the
hazards and necessities of a world war may prove even more important
than success in that war.
Fraternally yours, for the committee,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,

General Chairman.

The report was adopted save that portion recommending
the continuance of the activities of the committee, which was
referred to the 'Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The recommendation · that the future expenditures of the committee be left to the discretion of the Grand Master was referred
to the Committee on Finance.

345

SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE
ON BUILDING PROJECTS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This committee now reports on that portion of the Grand Master's
Report, under the heading of Recommendations, in which he recommends
legislation giving the committee more power and authority over Masonic
Temple problems.
This subject has been discussed by all members of this committee
and all are strongly of the opinion that adequate authority should be given
the committee, not only over building problems, but over refinancing of
present temples, or in other words, all those activities of the Lodge which
have to do with temple financing and which, if not on a sound basis may
cause discredit to the fraternity, sho~ld be reviewed by this committee.
Full discussion has been had with the Committee on Policy and General Purposes by the member who is presenting this report, and who is
the only member present at this session. He is entirely willing to leave
it to the judgment of the Committee on Policy as to the character and
scope of the legislation.
Fraternally submitted,
WILLIAM P. FILMER,
ARTHUR
HERBERT

s. CRITES,
c. GOLDMAN,
Committee.

Adopted.
The reports of the Finance Committee concerning Masonic
Clubhouses, the Masonic Homes, the office of the Grand Secretary, and the Masonic Homes Endowment Board were presented
by Brother Walter Berger and Brother Raymond W. Blosser
at this time and were adopted. These reports in full detail will
be included in the general report of the Finance Committee.
Grand Lodge called off at 12 :00 o'clock noon until 2 :00 p. m.

346

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3Jn ~ranb JLobgt
AFTERNOON SESSION
Thursday, October 15, 1942.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :00 p. m., the Grand Master
presiding.
At the request of the Grand Master the Grand Secretary
delivered the invocation.
A telegram of greeting was read from Past Grand Master
C. A. Carlson of Nevada.

REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipfitl Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to submit the following
report :
Audit of Accounts
Your committee has again employed Brother Floyd F. Webb of the
firm of Ruckstell, Burrows and Webb, certified public accountants, to
examine the books and records of the Grand Treasurer, the Gran i Secretary, the Masonic Homes of California and the Endowment Fund. The
reports of Brother Webb's examination of these records have been filed
with your . committee and have had its consideration. These reports are
now on file with the records of Grand Lodge and will be published in the
annual proceedings in the report of the Grand Secretary. They indicate
that all records are correct and in proper shape and all receipts properly
accounted. for and all expenditures properly made.
Your committee is again mindful of the debt it owes Brother Webb
for the personal interest he has shown in making the various audits because
of his membership in the fraternity and his interest is more than usual in
this work. He has given the fraternity an unusual service for the fee
allowed.
The total amount paid for the audit this year is $700.00, of which sum
the Homes has paid $550.00 and the balance of $150.00 has been paid out
of Grand Lodge funds.
.
This committee wishes to refer to the comment of the auditors on
the first page of the report, in which mention is made that "The total of
the expenses and appropriations exceedeq the revenue by $3,781.27," and
particularly to the second part of this comment which fully accounts for
this excess; that the item, "Loaned to Carpinteria Lodge No. 444-$2500.00," is not an expense but actually a capital investment and that this
particular item, while paid out of the current year, yet was an actual allowance made the previous year and therefore not properly chargeable to the
present year; and further, the item of Federal Unemployment Taxes for
other years, $522.17, is an item that has been in controversy between
Grand Lodge and the Federal Government for some time and adjusted
during the current·year and, therefore, is another item not properl;v <:harge-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

347

able to the year. The third item, $331.56 is the current year's proper proportion of the amortization of the premiums paid for bonds and, while a
just charge, is not an actual expense and is also an item that is not properly
chargeable to this particular year.
It should also be noted that in setting up the budget for the year the
income for the year was over-estimated by $942.49 and that the budget
only allowed for a leeway of $650.00. It should also be borne in mind
that both the Grand Master and Grand Secretary were operating under
an extreme emergency and that, because of this, additional expenses were,
of necessity, incurred. Credit should be given to both for the manner in
which they arose to the occasion and kept the affairs of Masonry . a~d
Grand Lodge on an even keel and yet with all, were able to stay w1thm
the budget.
The Committee on Finance is particularly glad to call Grand Lodge's
attention to these accomplishments.
Grand Lodge Week Activities
This committee has been in touch with the Committee on Grand
Lodge Week Activities and also witnessed the entertainment provided on
Tuesday evening at the "get together" dinner. You who were there are
fully able to judge of the excellence of the evening's a~rangemen~s and
the entertainment provided. The members of the Committee on Fmance
are of the opinion that the evening was ably planned and the entertainment of a most pleasin'g character, and the evening can be counted an
eminent success.
For a number of years your Commjttee on Finance has gone on record
as favorable to the expenditure of a reasonable amount of Grand Lodge
funds for the purpose of providing some entertainment for those at.tending
Grand Lodge. We are still of the same opinion.
·
The Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities advises the total
expense of activities will approximate $2,000.00. There was _appropriated
for that purpose at last Grand Lodge the sum of $2,500.00._ It 1s the recoi:imendation of the committee that all expenses actually incurred be paid
and the customary policy of having the balance of the appropriation revert
to the treasury of. Grand Lodge be again adhered to.
It must be recognized that there are many ~ncertainties as to what,
if anything can be done in the way of entertainment a year hence. We
are sure h~wever that the Masons of California will understand and if
it appea~s undesir'able to do anything in the .way ?f entertaini;i~nt they
will be in entire accord. However, the committee 1s of the opm1on that
funds should be provided, so that if some entertainment seems de.sirable
there will be funds on hand to pay for same. It, therefore, submits the
following resolution and recommends its adoption:

Resolved that the sum o·f $2,000.00, or as much thereof as may be
necessary to' pay the expenses incurred by the Grand Lodge Week Activities Committee, be allowed, and the same is hereby appropriated out of
the funds of Grand Lodge, and that the same be allocated to the payment
of the expenses incurred in the entertai.nment of officers and members
attending the next annual communication of Grand Lodge.

Adopted.

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic History
You, who were present in Grand Lodge yesterday afternoon and
heard. the report of the Committee on Masonic History, are already
acquamted with the amount of work which that committee 'has done in
~his past year in collecting the historical data of the fraternity and that
~t has P.erforn_ied this work for the modest cost of $103.38. This is again
m keepm~ with the record which this committee has made in the past
an~ . that is, that much. work has been accomplished in seeking out and
wntmg up the early history of Masonry in California and that the cost
to Grand Lodge of this work has been modest indeed.
. The work done by this committee is, of necessity, painstaking and
~ed~ous. The work of the committee, not only this year but in the past
md1cate.s the great d~:'otion this committee has to Masonry and to th~
preservmg and comp1lmg of our history of the past.

revert to Grand Lodge be adhered to. We, therefore, submit the following
resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $750.00 be appropriated for the use of this
committee, with the understanding that the bill now outstanding shall be
paid, and all unexpended appropriation at the end of the year shall revert
to Grand Lodge funds.

Th~ History Co1?1m.ittee is again to be commended for its painstaking
efforts m carefully d1ggmg up the real facts on Masonic History in Cali~or.nia. Your Committ~e on Finance, as has been previously expressed,
is m favor of. encour.agmg the work done by this committee. The request
of the committee this year for the continuance of its work is even more
~odest than it has been in the past, in that it is only asking an appropriation of $150.00 for this work for the coming year. Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:

Resolved, that the sum of $150.00 be appropriated from the funds of
. ~rand ~~dge to defray expenses which may be · incurred by the committee
m compiling and preparing additional information gathered on the history
of Masonry in California.

Adopted.
Masonic Information
Last year this committee appropriated the sum of $500.00 for the
?urpose of enabli~g the ~om~ittee on Masonic Information to follow up
its plan of preparmg a~d 1ssmng t? the Lodges quiz programs on subjects
which w~re thought. might be of mterest to the craft. It was recognized
at that time that this program, to a large extent, was experimental. You
have already heard the report of the committee telling you of this work
and their conclusions of its results.
The members of the Committee on Finance are of the opinion that
these quizzes were of real merit and fully justified the expenditure which
was made this past year of $415.70, for the preparation and publication
of these four quizzes. The committee is also of the opinion that the plan
which the Committee on Masonic Information has, to prepare and have
published a series of pamphlets for the coaches to use in instructing candidates, is well worth the cost of experiment.
The committee in its report asked Grand Lodge for $650.00, but the
verbal request of this committee was for $750.00. It is to be noted that,
of the appropriation last year, $84.30 is still on hand. We are advised,
however, that there is a small bill outstanding for some of the costs
incurred this past year. It has always been the practice of Grand Lodge
that all unexpended appropriations at the end of the year should revert
to the funds of Grand Lodge. It is the thought of this committee that
this practice should not be upset. It, therefore, has concluded to recommend an appropriation of $750.00 for the use of. this committee, with the
understanding that the outstanding bill shall be paid from this appropriation and that the former custom of having all unexpended appropriatio11s

349

Adopted.
University of California Clubhouses
Your Committee on Finance has analyzed the relJorts of the Trustees
of the Masonic Clubhouses, together with the audit of accounts and financial statements prepared by public accountants.
The funds furnished by Grand Lodge for the maintenance of the
clubhou~es are, in the opinion of your committee, being handled by the
trustees with the utmost care. We are further convinced that these clubhouses furnish much of intangible value to the Masonically affiliated
students attending these universities that cannot be measured by dollar
value, and that they furnish an atmosphere which inculcates into the
students using them the ideals and principles of Masonry. We are informed
by the trustees that the authorities at the university have expressed themselves to the effect that these clubhouses and the work they are doing is
outstanding among the campus activities.
We again commend the attention of the officers of Lodges to these
clubhouses and ask that they keep their membership informed, so that
the sons and daughters of our brethren may take full advantage of their
use when attending the university at Berkeley and Los Angeles.
The budgets submitted by the trustees for the coming year have had
the favorable consideration of your Committee on Finance and we, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $15,000.00 be appropriated from the funds
of Grand Lodge for the maintenance of the Masonic Clubhouses, $7,500.00
to ~e paid to the trustees of the Masonic Clubhouse at Los Angeles and
$7,500.00 to be paid to the trustee of the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley.

Adopted.
Masonic Homes
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed that portion of the report
of the Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes respecting the finances of
our homes and wish to report as follows:
The Audit of Accounts, prepared by certified public accountants
which we have studied, accurately reflects the financial affairs of th~
homes as reported by the trustees.
We have surveyed the report submitted to this Grand Lodge by your
Board of Trustees and while it is not necessary to comment here in
detail on the facts and figures, we ask that the members of Grand Lodge
avail themselves of the opportunity of reading this report. The report
indicates that the affairs of our homes, both as to finances a·n d the welfare
of the residents at Decoto and Covina, are being handled with efficiency
and fine care. We wish to express our commendation to the trustees for
the splendid manner in which they are managing the affairs of our two
homes.
. It is to be noted in looking over the report, that a surplus of $37,100.06
existed at the close of the year. We are advised by the president of the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Board of Trustees of the Homes that $30 000.00 of this amount has been
invested in war bonds and that it is the ;urpose of the trustees to retain
this sum· in reserve, . together with any ·additional surpluses which may
?c~ur durin_g the duration, for the purpose of providing an emergency fund
m expectat10n that, when the war is over much replenishing and rehabilitating will have to be done because of the impossibility of doing it at this
time, due to priorities and restrictions on repairs.
Your Committee on Finance is in entire accord with this policy and
commends the trustees for their foresightedness in preparing for a situation
that is ,certain to occur.
The requirements and needs of our homes for the coming year have
been discussed with the president of the Board of Trustees. We concur
in the recommendation of the Board of Trustees that the per capita tax
of 40 cents be continued for the coming year. We, therefore, offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the special per capita tax for the maintenan~e of the
Masonic Homes be set at 40 cents.

Because this jurisdiction is so near the theatre of war, it is likely this will
continue to be accentuated.
We commend the Grand Secretary and staff for the efficient and
capable manner in which they are serving this Grand Jurisdiction in these
days of enlarging responsibilities and opportunities.
It is gratifying that there has been an increase of 463 in the membership.
Reduction by 411 of dues re~itted reflects a change for the better.
Audit of Accounts reports all items of receipts and disbursements have
been properly accounted for and all records are in proper form.

350

Adopted.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
. Again the . Endowment Fund has earned a large net sum of $39,812.44
which was transferred to the Masonic Homes General Fund. The craft
should realize that if the Endowment Fund were not in existence and this
substantial income derived therefrom for maintenance of the homes the
per capita tax for such maintenance would be approximately 33 per' cent
greater. In addition to this the Endowment Board shows that $66,853.01
was add«;d to the fund itself.
Member contributors to the fund, as reported by the Endowment
Board, show a commendable increase of 1443 and the percentage of par~icip~tion is larger by 1.15 per cent. However, the total of 6.4 per cent
is still low, a~d we sh_ould continue to make every effort to enlarge this ·
percentage. Gifts to this splendid fund constitute a satisfying investment.
The Endowment Fund Board should be encouraged and assisted in
every possible. way. We appreciate the fine work being done by this group.
Under the gmdance of a new chairman, William Rhodes Hervey, P. G. M.,
who succeeded our M. W. G. M., Frank M. Smith, this important activity
has been carri~d ?n in the same efficient manner. In spite of the heavy
demands on his time, he has, nevertheless, devoted large blocks of time
to the capable and successful advancement of this excellent undertaking.
The Board has on hand a balance of $948.40 from 1941-42 which it
w~ll retain for the current fiscal year: Therefore, the current ap;ropriation
will be less than last year.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $5,000 be appropriated from the general
funds of Grand Lodge for the use of the Masonic Homes Endowment
Board during this fiscal Masonic year.

Adopted.

351 .

Adopted.
Committe~ on Correspondence
It has been the practice of this Grand Lodge for most of its existence
to have a Committee on Correspondence, the duties of the committee being
the reviewing of the proceedings of other Grand Lodges throughout the
world and making a resume of the important activities and happenings in
such jurisdictions and reporting the same to Grand Lodge, which report
has. always been printed in the annual proceedings .
For this purpose this committee for a number of years has appropriated $500.00, covering the expenses of compiling this report.
This past year, under the chairmanship of Worshipful Brother Henry
Clauson, this reviewing was partialed out among the membership of the
committee and all the reviewing and compiling was done without expense
to Grand Lodge. For this work and compiling, and it is very considerable
and without expense to this Grand Lodge, the Committee on Finance
wishes to express its gratitude.
This committee is of the opinion that the reviewing of annual proceedings is a valuable work and should be encouraged. After all. whatever
Masonry is doing, wherever it may exist, is something in which we are
all interested. Such information is made available through the good work
of the Committee on Correspondence. The report of this committee should
have much more consideration than is ordinarily given it. We commend to
all, and particularly to the Masters of Lodges, the reading of the report
compiled by this Committee on Correspondence.
Your Committee on Finance believes that an appropriation not to
exceed $500.00 should be made available for the use of this committee,
providing it is needed, and therefore offer the following resolution · and
recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $500,00, or as muclf thereof as may be
required, be appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the
purpose of defraying the expenses of a Committee on Correspondence,
said bills to be paid in the usual manner on approval of the Committee
on Accounts.

Adopted.
. I

Report of Grand Secretary
This report, in detail, presents much valuable information which
should be carefully studied by each member of this Grand Jurisdiction.
It is noted that the work of the Grand Secretary's office has multiplied
over preceding years, due to war conditions and the War Relief Fund.

Committee on Constitution Month Observance
It is noted in the Auditor's Report that this committee expended in
its activities for this past year the sum of $306.69. The amount to be
expended by this committee was not budgeted for the year jus~ past, but
was included in the item of miscellaneous expenditures.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

As the work of this committee is meeting with favor and now appears
to be a permanent part of the activities of . Grand Lodge and as the
Committee on Finance is very much in accord with the work which the
committee is doing, it is of the opinion that the expenses of this committee should now be budgeted. Efforts have been made to ascertain the
probable expenditure ·of the committee for this coming year, but so far
no information has been given to the Committee on Finance. The committee is therefore budgeting the sum of $500.00 for these expenditures,
with the understanding that whatever amount the committee expends,
with the approval and under the direction of the Grand Master, is to be
audited in the usual manner and paid out of the funds of Grand Lodge.

It is to be noted that there has been expended by the San Francisco .
Board ot Relief $850.00, by authority of the Grand Lodge of Scotland,
and also by the Los Angeles Board of Relief $416.40, for the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands, and that both of these advances seem
to be of a temporary character and that Grand Lodge will be fully reimbursed in these amounts.
·

352

Adopted.
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
Your committee has examined the report of the Board of Control on
reimbursement of B,oards of Relief and Masonic Employment Service
and commends that board for its thoroughness and excellent supervision
of the several Boards of Relief, and adds a word of commendation for
the ceaseless efforts of the Boards of Relief and Masonic Employment
Service.
The report of the Board of Control recommends reimbursements to
Boards of Relief and Lodges as follows:
San Francisco ---•. ~; ....... ----------·-----·--··-·-·: ............ :.... - ........................$19 .00
Los Angeles --·--------·-·-··---···-·-----··---·-···--····-------···------·--------------··--·-·-·--- 35.00
Total .......... ·--···-··--··---·---~-----··----·-··-··------·······--··-···-_.····-··-···---··----$54.00·
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $54.00 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of Grand Lodge to reimburse all Boards of Relief and Lodges,
· as above set out.

Adopted.
Masonic Employment Service
The Board of Control has recommended to this committee that moneys
should be appropriated for the Employment Bureaus, as follows:

~~~t F~~~ci-~~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ ~:~~~
Los Angeles ·················---···------·-·--·-·········-··---···············--····--··--·---···- 7,800
San Diego -···-···-·······-·-····--------................... ,....................................... 2,200
Long Beach ........................................................................................ 2,200
Sacramento ........................................................................................ 1,100
Fresno ..................................................................................................
500
Total ··-··--·--··---'----·-.-·-·-----............................................................ ;.$'19,200
Your committee concurs in the recommendation of the Board of
Control and offers the. following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, that the sum of $19,200 be, and is hereby, appropriated from
the funds of Grand Lodge to be divided into donations to assist in maintaining employment bureaus as above listed.

Adopted.

353.

This committee is in entire accord with the recommendation of the
Board of Control that these two amounts be set up on the books of Grand
Lodge as "Amounts due to Grand Lodge."
·
It is necessary, however, that these two Boards of Relief should be
reimbursed and therefore this committee offers the followin'g resolution
and recommends its adoption:
Resoh·ed, that the sum o f $1,266.40 be appropria~ed from the funds
of Grand Lodge and be paid, to San Francisco Board of Relief $850.00,
and to Los Angeles Board of Relief $416.40, for the purpose of reimbursing
these two boards for amounts expended as above set out.

Adopted.
Report of Grand Treasurer
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed with care the repor.t of the
Most Worshipful William P . Filmer, Grand Treasurer. The report fully
sets forth the financial condition of Grand 'Lodge, of the Endowment Fund
and of the various Trust Funds, including a list of securities held and of
securities bought and sold during the year, as well as all financial transactions. The report again indicates the great care given and the efficiency
displayed by our Grand Treasurer in handling. the financial affairs of
Grand Lodge. The responsibility which the Grand Treasurer has is very
great. The praise and appreciation of this committee is unbounded for
the work which this worthy officer is performing for Grand Lodge.
As has· already been reported on the Audit of Accounts, all items
of receipts and disbursements have been properly accounted for and all
records are in perfect shape.
Last year this committee called attention to the difficulties under
which our Grand Treasurer had performed his duties for a large share
of that year. His duties this year have been performed under even more
trying circumstances, in that the illness which struck him down in March
of that. year has pursued him for this entire year.
Time .after time it seemed that Brother Filmer was well on the road
to recovery, but somehow unkind fate seemed to follow him and again
and again he suffered a setback. His courage and fortitude have been
remarkable indeed. Again we express the fervent hopes, not only of this
committee, but of the entire fraternity of the State of California, that this
time there will be no setback and that time will not be long delayed when
he will again be with us.
His duties this year have necessarily been p'e rformed at home and
altogether too frequently when Brother Filmer was in bed, yet at no time
and in no way have the duties of his office been neglected.
We know the entire fraternity joins with this committee in expressing
thanks to the Omnipotent that we still have the firm hand of our Most
Worshipful Brother Filmer, Grand Treasurer, at the helm of the finances
of Grand Lodge.
Traveling Expenses of Grand Master
Your committee has discussed with the incoming Grand Master his
plans for the year and particularly as to the extent of his visitations. This

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

354

committee has been greatly impressed with the understanding which the
new Grand Master has of the responsibilities before him and of his hopo
to travel extensively and meet the craft in every part of the jurisdic·
tion, and thus be better able to judge the needs throughout the entire
jurisdiction.
It is obvious that our incoming Grand Master is assuming his respon·
sibilities with great earnestness and with a sincere devotion to duty and
with a determination that, not only will gains which have been made this
past year be fully maintained, but additional advancements made.
Due to many conditions which cannot now be determined, such as
the amount of travel that may be permitted by the Federal Government,
the means of travel, the continued increased cost thereof and emergencies
that are almost sure to arise, but cannot now be foreseen, it is equally
impossible for the incoming Grand Master, or this committ~e, to deter·
mine, even approximately, the amount the Grand Master may require
for his traveling expenses.
This committee has previously gone on record, and remains of the
same opinion., that extensive visitations by the Grand Master are both
desirable and helpful and that the craft as a whole derives more benefit
from the money expended in this way than from nearly any other source.
We are also of the opinion that the Grand Master should have
returned to him all expenses he is out in attending to his duties as Grand
Master. The committee therefore wishes to go on record that if the
amount appropriated for the purpose of paying these expenses is not
found sufficient, the Grand Master should not circumscribe his activities,
and that whatever amount he finds necessary should be paid to him out
of the treasury of Grand Lodge. The committee, however, is setting up
the same amount as last year, that is, the sum of $4,500.00, and therefore
offers the following resolution and recotnmends its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $4,500.00 be appropriated from the funds
of Grand Lodge for the purpose of defraying the traveling expenses of
the Grand Master.

Adopted.
Portrait of Grand Master
One of the pleasures this committee has had each year has been to
request the retiring Grand Master to have his portrait painted so that it
may be included in the gallery of portraits of Past Grand Ma,,sters. The
pleasure of the committee is ·e qually great this year for your committee
is sure that this communication of Grand Lodge will wish to continue this
pleasing custom and have a portrait of our present retiring Grand Master
also included in this gallery. Your_ committee therefore recommends that
our retiring Grand Master, the Most Worshipful Frank M. Smith, have
his portrait painted and present the bill therefor, in an amount not to
exceed $250.00, to the Grand Secretary, who is authorized to pay the same,
and when the portrait is painted such portrait to be hung in the gallery
of Past Grand Masters.

Adopted.
Portraits of Preceding Past Grand Masters
It has been the thought of this committee for a number of years
that our gallery of portraits of those who have presided over the destinies
of Masonry, in this jurisdiction, should be complete. We are sure th.at all
who were familiar with our gallery of some years ago will admit that its

355

appearance has b~en materially improved in the last few years. It is again
the thought of this committee that this improvement should be continued
and that the portraits 'of those Past Grand Masters which are not yet in
the gallery should be included; two of those not yet having been painted
are Past Gr~nd Master Earl Warren and our Grand Master of last year
Lloyd E. Wilson. Your committee would like to see these portraits added
and th~refore repeats the request heretofore made, that these two Most
yYorsh1pful Brothers have their portraits painted, the bill for each to be
m an amount not to exceed $250.00, and when presented to the Grand
Secretary to_ be paid by him out of Grand Lodge funds and the portraits
to be hung m the gallery of our Past Grand Masters.

Adopted.
Traveling Expenses of Grand Lecturer and Assistants
. The Grand Lecturer, Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, has presented to
th1~ committee a comparison of expenses of. the Grand Lecturer and his
ass1st~nts for _the past five years, showing that, with the exception of the
year JUst cl_osmg, the budget allowance has never been used up. He also
call~ . attention t~ _the need of some of the outlying districts requiring
additional superv1s10n and coaching in the ritualistic work and therefore
the need of some addition_al allowance for expenses for this purpose and
recommends to the committee the allowance this year of $1600.0~, being
$600.00 more than was allowed for the same purpose for the past two years.
. This committ~e recogni~es the increased cost of traveling and also
b~l~eves that de~m.te _go.od will result from additional coaching and superv1s10n of those J~risd1ctJons which need it. It, therefore, is in accord with
~he recomn;iendattons made by the Grand Lecturer, and submits the following resolut10n and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $1600.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Gr~nd Lodge, to defray the expenses of the Grand Lecturer and his
assistants.

Adopted.
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
It was one of the pleasant duties of this committee last year to roport
th_e payme?t of the dues of every Lodge in the jurisdiction. This committee ag~m has the same satisfaction; the returns from all L odges have
been received and all dues have been paid.
·

W_e co~pli~ent the Lodges for finding themselves fully able to meet
all the1~ ~bhgatJons and congratulate our Most Worshipful Grand Master
that this 1s the condition of his jurisdiction.
·
Reimbursement of Expenses of Inspectors
Up to two years ago it had been the policy of this Grand Lodge that
~he expe?ses of_ the Inspectors, in performing their various duties in visiting and mspectmg Lodges within their district, should be returned by the
Lodges. For t~e _past two years, however, this policy has been changed
and an appropriation has been made by this committee of $3 000 each year
for . the purp~se. of r eimbursing the Inspectors for the expe~ses incurred.
This appropriation was made to cover the amount that would be required
should a_ll the Inspectors ask for the return of the reasonable expenses
actually incurred.

It is to be noted, and with great satisfaction, that · while this money
has been made available for these expenses, only a small portion of it has
been asked for. This important body of Masonic workers are performing
a real service for Masonry and could, in complete propriety, ask for the
retu,rn cif expenses and yet, a large share of the work is being done for
the pure joy of the services rendered and without the willingness to accept
any return for any money out. This is the spirit that makes Masonry
what it is. This 'Grand Jurisdiction is indeed fortunate to have such a
body of faithful workers.
While it is the wish of this committee that all expenses incurred by
Inspectors should be reimbursed, and it is recognized that should all ask
for the amount to which they are justly entitled, it would require at least
$3 ,000 and yet, as less than one-third of this amount has ever been asked
for and as it is the ·belief of the committee that the actual expenses that
will be asked for should be set up as nearly as possible, it is making an
appropriation of $2,000 and setting this amount up in the budget. However,
the committee wishes it understood that should an additional amount be
required it will approve the payment thereof. It, therefore, offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $2,000.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge for the purpose of defraying expenses of Inspectors in performing their official duties, such repayment to be made upon bills duly
presemed to the Grand Secretary, which said bills shall first be approved
by the Grand Lecturer.

Adopted.
Carpinteria Lodge
Last year this committee recommended the approval of a loan to' the
above Lodge in the sum of $2,500.00, for the· purpose of rehabilitating
damage done by an earthquake and also to enable the Lodge to refinance
a previous loan in a much reduced amount. At the time it was hoped by
the Lodge and by this committee that a sufficient sum could be borrowed
so that the old loan could be not only entirely refinanced, but the amount
advanced by Grand Lodge could be returned. The understanding was that
the Lodge was to borrow $5,000.00 for the purpose of refinancing an old
loan of $12,000.00, $7,000.00 being allowed as a discount for immediate
pajrnent, and an additional sum of $2,500.00 or, in all, a total of $7,500.00
for the repayment to Grand Lodge.
Negotiations finally resulted in \he Lodge being able to borrow only
$4,000.00, which was accepted by the previous lender in full for the
$12,000.00 obligation. This $4,000.00 loan is returnable at $75.00 monthly,
which included both principle and interest, at the rate of five per cent
per annum. These payments are being made regularly and approximately
$500.00 has been repaid.
The hope of the brethren in Carpinteria to secure additional rent
from the building has not been realized and because of this the Lodge has
not found it possible to repay any part of the $2,500.00 loan to Grand
Lodge.
To show its good faith the Lodge has increased its dues from $9.00
· to $12.00 and is carrying along in a full Masonic way and taking care
of all its running expenses and necessary charity.
It expresses a wish to repay the advance by Grand Lodge in full as
soon as possible and will secure a further loan for this purpose whenever
it can be done. The attitude of the brethren is commendable.

357 .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

356

It would seem
· would be entirely appropriate
for. Carpinteria
Lodtoeyour
to co ~m1'tt ee t h at it.
gd
be given further time for the repayment of the
2 500 00 d
a vance an
therefore w 0 ff
h f0 ll .
$ • ·
recommend
its adoptio~:
'
e
er t e
owmg resolution and

. Resolved, th~t th
an additional term of one year be granted
Lodge No 444
to Carpinteria
·
m e repayment of its $2, 500 .00 o bl"1gat"ion.

Adopted.
Th

Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18, Situated at D
. ·11
C
.
owmev1 e

situatio~ s~r1;1:U~~~~go~h~ir~~~ga~dui~~~n~ ~;~iec~ repo~t~d fully on the
rehabilitation of the temple of th L d
f · d a vance m 1938 for the
which the recommendati
f
e o ~e, or amage done by flood, in
belonged among the duti~~ :f t~ee ~~:::::~e wavhat this matter properly
its reference to that committee a d .
h. he on mance a?d recommended
concurred.
' n m w IC recommendation Grand Lodge

9

This committee has endeavored t
t ·
h ·
of that district and the Representatfv~efr~nm:to~c ~1th both the ~nspector
called on this c'ommittee-ther f
. .
t e . odge, but neither has
to submit any conclusions ~ orefh1t I~ not possible for this committee
referred to the incomi"ng c·
~· ere or_e, recommend this matter be
omm1ttee on Fmance.

Adopted.
Expe~ses of Grand Lecturer, Grand Tiler and Grand Organist

!t has heretofore been the policy of this committee to

the item of salaries, the amounts allowed the abo

th

set

u~, under

~~:~~ ~~dc;;s s:~:io~~~~~s~~r~~c;~~~~ ti~e ~e::~rmi~; t:e~~ ~~:7:s ::r~:;

~:~~ ~~sde:i:~;s P~=:~n~h~ot~~~;~~~Jt~h ~ tt~t;~u;lot~~seen:1;;:a~ac~~. ~~~
As some question has arisen a · t

h

were made, not as a salary b t t
. isb committee t 1at these allowances
e
.
.
u o re1m urse these officers for necessar

i(f~~~~~o~~~~::d~h~uf~~e a!~~~r~0~0t~~er~t~1;1:1i~tee that it would be be~
~~~;:;~~~~:It, therefore, offers the following r~s6~~~~e=n~n~e~~~~~:~~

be m~~;:ved, that allowances for expenses for the following named officers .

g~:~~ 1i!';°a~i-~t ..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$~~~:~

Grand Lecturer

and that the sum of $9oo"Ci(i""b···················:··········································· 100.00
.
·
e appropriated for that purpose.

Adopted.
NoTE : On Frida t th
mittee offered a mc?ti:n r:v:~;f:;t ~:i the ~rand ~cturer the Finance ComLecturer and the motion was carrie/ ~ch ion as it rela~ed to . the Grand
trans~er the item of $600.00 for the Gr~nd Le effect of this motion was to
T he !terns for the Grand Organist and the ~;~r~r tfm expense to s~lary.
and it was understood and a reed ti
n
I er are expense items
present any itemized request ~or the iat they wefre not to be required to
payment tJ same.

358

359

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNfA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Salaries
Your committee has given its usual careful consideration to the salaries
of your Grand Lodge officers. Each angle of this problem has been given
full consideration. It is the opinion of the committee that the salaries for
the coming year should be fixed as follows:
Grand Secretary ·-··-···········-·-··-·-············-················':...................
Assistant Grand Secretary..........................................................
*Grand Lecturer ............................................................................

$6,000.00
3,600.00
600.00

*Not included in report as originally submitted but incorporated in
this report in the proceedings to make the salary items conform to the
action taken on Friday morning relative to the item of
for the
Grand Lecturer.
·
For a number of years it has been the arrangement between this
committee and the Trustees of the Masonic Homes that the salaries of
the Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary be paid from Grand
Lodge funds and that the Homes reimburse Grand Lodge in the amount
of
per annum for the work done by these two Grand Officers
for the Homes. Your committee has suggested to the chairman of the
Trustees of the Homes that
is probably inadequate to properly
reimburse Grand Lodge for the work being perform.ed by these two Grand
Officers on behalf of the Homes and has suggested the sum of
per annum. The chairman of the Trustees will submit the sugge_stion to
the Board at their next session.
Heretofore, no special resolution has been offered appropriating monies
for the Grand Lecturer and his four assistants, in performing t!i.eir duties,
but it was provided that these items be paid out by the Grand Secretary
upon the presentation of proper statements. This year definite appropriation is made for this purpose; therefore, this part of the report, usually
included under the item· of salaries, is now omitted.
However, it is recommended that the traveling expenses incurred by
Grand Lodge officers, or members of Grand Lodge who may be traveling
by authority of the Grand Master, be paid, as heretofore, from the funds
of Grand Lodge.

$600.00

$1,800.00

$1,800.00

$3,000.00

Adopted.
Pay of Members
Your Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report indicating that the amount required to pay the traveling expenses of officers and
members attending this session of Grand Lodge amounts to the sum of
and we therefore offer the following resolution and recommend
that it be adopted:
Resolved, that the sum of
be appropriated to pay the traveling
expenses of officers and members attending this session.

$15,730.90,

$15,730.90

There is also some other_ revenue derived from the sale of supplies
and from surety bonds covering Lodge officers. This revenue however
cannot be _take_n into co~sideration in the budget because it i; offset b;
corresponding_ items of ~1sbursement, which are also eliminated from the
budge~. The mcome derived from all sources is not sufficient to pay the
ope.rating expe~se~ of G_rand Lodge during this coming year and the
various a~prop_nations being recommended in this report. It also sh 0 uld
be _borne m ~1~d that. there are always some expenses which can not be
eshmat_e?-th1s 1s particularly true this year due to war conditions and the
probab1hty that further emergencies may arise.
Thi_s committee h~s always taken the position that while there was
no. p~rhcular need of 1i:icreasing the surplus which Grand Lodge has at
this time, and yet sufficient funds should be raised every year to care for
all reasonable expenses.
~t- is pleasing t~ note that, despite the emergenci~·s and uncertain
cond1t10ns. under which this Grand Lodge operated this past year, the
b_udget which was. set up a year ago has been as closely followed as conditions w_ould permit and that the year ended with a very limited decrease
of prev10us reserves, the actual amount being
It should be borne in mind that the budget which is being set up is
for the _cu~rent fiscal :>'.ear and that the money is on hand to care for the
appro~nat1ons m_iw bemg made and the expenses to be incurred for the
ope:ation o~ affairs of Masonry in this jurisdiction, and also, that the per
c_ap1ta levy is for the purpose <;>f raising funds for next fiscal year's operah~ns and further, that many imponderable conditions and expenses may
arise and therefore the per capita levy which is now recommended may not
adequately cover all expenses found necessary.
The constitutional requirements do not provide sufficient funds to care
for the operations of Grand Lodge next fiscal year.
In order to raise the additional moneys needed it will be necessary to
levy a further per capita of
cents. In the report on the Masonic Homes
an additional per .capita of
cents was recommended and has already been
approved by you. The levy for th~ coming year will be made up as
follows:
Grand _Lodge constitutional requirement'........................................$ .SO
Masonic Homes constitutional requirement.................................. .SO
Masonic Homes maintenance special levy.................................... .40
Grand Lodge activities special levy........................... .,......................

$1,281.27.

15
40

.15

Total .........................................................:..............................--~----$1.55

15

It is necessary to present a resolution to provide for the levy of
cents for Grand Lodge activities. This committee therefore offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption:
R esolved, that a per capita levy of
cents be levied for the payment of
Grand Lodge expenses and for its various Masonic activities.

15

Adopted.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Per Capita
The constitution provides for the levying of a per capita of
cents
to pay for the expenses of Grand Lodge and its various activities. In addition to the sum provided for by this per capita levy, there is additional
revenue accruing to Grand Lodge from degrees conferred and income on
investments and from some other sources of approximately

50

..

$15,000.00.

Budget

~~:~~:~~ ..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$1~:~~~:~ .
1,600.00
4,500.00
* Includes $600.00 for Grand Lecturer.

Traveling expense, Grand Lecturer and assistants............................
Office rent ......................................................................................................

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Postage ·················-······················································································· 1,000.00
150.00
Audit ............................................................................................................. .
500.00
Telegraph and l~one ........................ :...........,...................................... .
Grand Masters' 'te!ief.....:.................~ ................. c••••• ;•.•••••.••...•.••••••••••••••• .•.• 2,500.00
300.00
Board of t:Mrtt'oL ..............................·........................ .'................................ .
600.00
Public Schools week .........,....................:...............:....................................
500.00
Fifty-year buttons .................. :..................................... :........ ,..... ~ ............. .
Portraits Grand Maste.r s ........................................................................... .
750.00
Outside relief ............................................................................................... . 4,500.00
650.00
Social security taxes, old age benefit and employment.. ................. .
600.00
Expense, Grand Treasurer ....................................................................... .
Traveling expense, inspectors ................................................. ,.................. 2,000.00
Pay of members .......................................................................c••••..•.•••••••••••• 15,350.00
Reimbursement Boards of Relief ......................:.......................................
54.00
Employment Bureaus ................................................................................ 19,200.00
Traveling expense, Grand Master ........................................................... . 4,500.00
1viasonic clubhouses ................................................................................... . 15,000.00
Endowment Board ..............,....................................................................... 5,000.00
Grand Lodge week activities .................................................................... 2,000.00
500.00
Correspondence Committee ..................................................................... .
150.00
History Committee ......·............................................................................. .
Masonic Information Committee............................................................. .
750.00
· Annual communication ....... ,...................................................................... 1,300.00
Inspectors' aprons and stationery......................................................... .
750.00
Traveling expense, Grand Lodge officers ............................................. .
350.00
Employment taxes prior years.·-······-····-·················-·······'·····'··················· 1,200.00
500.00
Constitution month observance............................................................... .
Reimbursement Boards of Relief for account Grand Lodge of
Scotland and Philippine Islands ......~ ............................................... 1,266.40
1viiscellaneous ............................................................................................... . 2,000.00

The chairman of the Finance Committee then moved the
adoption of the entire report, and the motion, duly seconded,
was carried.

360

Of the amounts above allocated -~he item of $1,266.40 for reimbursement
of Boards of Relief for account of Grand Lodge of Scotland and the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands will be carried as accounts receivable as
repayment is expected.
The item of $1,200.00 for employment taxes is contingent upon decision
to be made by the State Unemployment Department as to whether all
or part of this amount is to be paid.
Income
Dues from Lodges, etc ..........:... :......................~ ............. ,.......................,.$ 92,100.00
Interest and dividends.............................................................................. 15,300.00
Total .....:...... :................................... _.................................................... $107,400.00
Estimated expenditure ............................................................................ 108,720.40
Estimated deficit ................................................................ ;.......................
1,320.40
Respectfully submitted,
A RT HUR

s. CRITES,

F . c. RUPPEL,

w ALTER L. BERGER,
w. MILLER,

ROLLIE
RAY

w. BLOSSER,
Committee.

Adopted.

361

A letter was read from Inspecto~ Alfred Breslauer, in which
he presented to Grand Lodge all his rights and interests in the
Master's Handbook, for such use as the Grand Lodge might
wish to make of it. The Grand Master accepted the offer and
referred it to the - Grand Master for the year 1942-1943.
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
CORRESPONDENCE
The report, presented by Captain Henry C. Clausen, U nited
States Army, chairman, and Past Grand Orator, was adopted
as presented and Captain Clausen, who had attended for the
purpose of presenting the report, returned immediately to duty
at Fort Douglas, Utah. Complete report on page 438.
REPORTS OF THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
I

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes herewith submits
its reports and recommendations with respect to the various matters contained in the annual message of the Grand Master and the resolutions
introduced into the Grand Lodge which have been referred to it by Grand
Lodge for consideration.
Grand Secretary's Staff
The Grand Master directed the attention of Grand Lodge to the necessity of increasing the staff in the Grand Secretary's office in order to
efficiently and promptly handle the necessary work for this Grand Jurisdiction and recommended that the matter of the increased staff be given
consideration. Your committee is of the opinion that the office of the
Grand Secretary should be efficiently administered and to that end that he
should have such clerical and accounting assistance as may be required to
promptly, efficiently and accurately perform the important duties of his
office and approves the recommendation of the Grand Master.

Adopted.
San Francisco Office
The Grand Master during the past year assumed the responsibility
for ordering needed additional equipment for the office of the Grand Secretary in San Francisco and asks that Grand Lodge approve his action.
Your committee is of the opinion that the office of the Grand Secretary
should be furnished and equipped in a manner creditable to this Grand
Lodge. It not only is a place for the transaction of a vast volume of business and administrative detail but it is the resort during the year of many
Masons of this and other jurisdictions. Its physical equipment and general
atmosphere should comport with the dignity of this Grand Lodge. Additions to the improvements already made could and should be made to make

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the office conform to these requirements. Your ·committee therefore recommends that the action of the Grand Master in this matter be approved.

by the secretaries of the subordinate Lodges to the Grand Secretary be
required and that the matter be referred to the Committee on ] urisprudence,
to report at the next annual communication.

362

Adopted.
Building Committee
The Grand Master recommended that no Lodge in the jurisdiction be
given permission to erect, remodel or repair any temple unless the project
be satisfactorily financed and he expressed his opinion that the committee
be enlarged and given specific power and authority. Your committee has
given . consideration to the recommendations of the Grand Master and
finds that Grand Lodge, by Ordinance 78, provided for a special committee
consisting of three members on financing building projects, but did not
prescribe the duties or authority of the committee. The committee was
brought into existence by reason of unfortunate and inadvisable financial
ventures entered upon by some of the subordinate Lodges which, in the
course of time, brought disgrace upon the Lodge and more or kss odium
on Masonry. In order to guard against the recurrence of such misfortunes,
the committee was set up so that plans for the expenditure of money for
a building by a Lodge might have a disinterested and fraternal examination of an outside, protecting influence. The work of the committee has
been salutary and it has approved many projects which were sound and
disapproved those few that were palpably unsound. Because of the vast
extent of the territorial jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, it appears wise
to increase the committee so that different sections of the state may be
represented in its membership, and the attention to building projects be
closer and less burdensome. Your committee is further of the opinion
that the duties and powers of the committee should be expressly defined in
such manner as to yield the greatest assistance to the Lodge undertaking
a project and to give a full protection . to this Grand Lodge and Masonry
against future criticism which may arise from the defaults or omissions
of a Lodge which has assumed unfortunate obligations. That said committee should not approve of building projects and their financing, but
shou Id consent to or disapprove the same. Your committee recommends
that Section 78 of the Ordinances be amended by providing a Building
Committee of five members of which the Grand Treasurer would be
ex-officio a member and chairman, the chairman of the Finance Committee
a member ex-officio and three members appointed by the Grand Master
and that this report be adopted and the subject matter referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence for the formulation and presentation of an
appropriate amendment to the · Ordinances of Grand Lodge.

Adopted.
Reports to · Grand Lodge
The Grand Secretary has directed the attention of Grand Lodge to
delays which occur in the office of the Grand Secretary respectin~ degrees
conferred, dimits granted, affiliates elected, Master Masons raised, and
deaths. The returns are received once a year and must be collated so
that the records are from twelve to fifteen months in arrears. To correct
the situation and to secure accuracy, the Grand Secretary recommended
that a Monthly Membership Return be required of the Lodges and asked
for permission to try out the plan during the present fiscal year. Your
committee is in full accord with the recommendation of the Grand Secretary but is of the opinion that' the law should be amended to require
monthly returns. If the need exists, there is no reason for a trial period.
Your committee therefore recommends that Monthly Membership Returns

363

Territory of Hawaii
The Grand Lecturer made certain recommendations with regard to
the Inspectoral District of Hawaii and the prompt dispatch of the business
of this Grand Lodge in that Territory during these adverse war conditions.
Your committee is of the opinion that the subject matter should not be
disposed of at this communication but the same should be carried over as
unfinished business to the next Annual Communication of this Grand
Lodge and so recommends.
Masonic War Service Committee
The excellent and inspiring report of the War Service Committee has
been referred to this committee. We find much to applaud and nothing to
alter in the report and therefore have no recommendations with respect
thereto.
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands
The report of Brother Roy C. Ryan, representative of the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands near the Grand Lodge of California has
been referred to your committee and it appears therefrom and also from
the message of the Grand Master that the Grand Lodge of California,
under proper conditions and restrictions, is receiving dues from members
of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands and issuing certificates
showing such receipt and . is impounding and holding for the credit and
subject to the order of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, all
monies paid in by members of the subordinate Lodges of that Grand
] urisdiction. · Your committee is of the opinion that the service of this
Grand Lodge to a sister Grand Lodge, which has ceased to exist by reason
of political and military oppression, is timely and meritorious and, therefore, we recommend· that the courtesy and trusteeship instituted by the
Grand Master and the Grand Secretary on behalf of this Grand Lodge be
approved and continued.

Adopted.
History Committee
Your committee is informed of the valuable and extensive work which
has been done and is being done by the History Committee and recommends that such committee be continued.

Adopted.
U. S. Merchant Marine
RESOLUTION
1W hereas, it is the present policy and custom of the Grand Lodge of Masons
in the jurisdiction of California to acquire certain data relative to members
of constituent Lodges within this jurisdiction when such members enter
the Armed Forces of the United States of America and to reward such
entrants with a certain certificate acknowledging said entrant's membership
in such constituent Lodge, and
Whereas, such "Armed Forces of the United States of America" are designated by the Government of the United States as members· of the "Army,"
"Navy" and " Marine Corps," and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

364

Whereas, there is in existence and employed by the Government of the
United States a branch of maritime service known as the United States
Merchant Marine, which service includes the transport of war supplies
and materials, and
Whereas, such ships and their crews are subject to all the exigencies and
dangers of war if, and when, intercepted by enemy vessels or submarines,
and
Whereas, the Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction of California has not included Masons employed as members of the United States Merchant
Marine as the recipients of the same courtesy and favor as is bestowed
upon Masons in the aforesaid "Armed ·Forces of the United States of
America/'
Be it resolved, that, at the communication of the Grand Lodge of the
jurisdiction of California held October 13-17, A. L . 5942, in the city of
San Francisco, California, it is and shall be declared the purpose of said
Grand Lodge of California to include in its category of Masons employed
in the Armed F orces of the United States any and all such Masons in
good standing as are now, or hereafter may be, employed in the service of
the United States Merchant Marine, provided such Mason has joined the
United States Merchant Marine since December 7, 1941, and
Be it further resolved, that the Grand Secretary shall be so informed and
instructed to issue to such mei:nbers of the United States Merchant Marine
all and every emolument as is now, or is to be, issued to members of the
Armed Forces of the United States.
The r esolution has been introduced by Brother Benjamin J. Moss,
Past Master of Ionic Lodge No. 520, proposing that the members of the
U . S. Merchant Marine shall be included in the category of Masons employed in the Armed Forces of the United States and be recipients of the
same courtesies· and favors as are bestowed by this Grand Lo.dge upon
Masons in the Armed Forces of the United States. Your committee is of
the opinion that the members of the U. S. Merchant Marine are rendering
a patriotic service of a hazardous nature and are fully entitled to the
suggested consideration and therefore recommends th at in connection with
our War R elief activities that they be classed with the Armed Forces.

Adopted.
Grand Secretary
Because of the experience gained and the beneficial fraternal contacts
made at the Annual Grand Secretaries Conference, your committee is of
the opinion that the best Interests of this Grand L odge would be served by
having the Grand Secretary, Lloyd E. Wilson, join with the Grand Mast er
in attending the forthcoming conference and recommends that he be invited
so to do and that the matter be referred to the Finance Committee for a
proper appropriation for the. expenses he may incur by reason of such
attendance.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

365 '

person, firm or corporatibn dispensing liquors in cocktail bars, restaurants
and other places licensed by faw.
It appears to your committee that no reason exists for the infliction
of a drastic penalty on one class of employees engaged in the liquor business and exempts from any penalty the owners, managers and other employees of such business; and, therefore, recommends that Section 210 of
the Ordinances be amended by striking therefrom the words "or who is a
barkeeper" and the words "who shall become. a barkeeper."
We recommend that the policy outlined be adopted and subject matter
referred to the Jurisprudence Committee.

Failed of adoption.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worship/iii Grand L odge of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 93rd annual communication of Grand Lodge:
Those entitled to compensation are the duly accredited Representatives
of each Lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand Masters, Officers of Grand Lodge
and the chairmen and members of committees· enumerated in Section 70 of
the Ordinances, who are actually in attendance at Grand Lodge.
~ompensation of members is fixed in Section 68 of the Ross' Digest
as being twice the single first-class one-way railroad fare, plus Pullman
sleeper where necessary. As has been the custom for many years, no
compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate
vicinity, nor where the prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00.
We have computed the transportation rates from all points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the payroll with
the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentials. The amount required to meet fransportation cost s as provided by the
constitution, for the 1942 Convocation, is as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers ..................................................................$ 655.40
388.50
Past Grand Masters.....................................................................
Committees ....................................................................................
821.30
Inspectors ...................................................................................... 1,976.60
Representatives ............................................................................ 11,889.10
Total .........................................,..............................................$15,730.90
Thanks is again due to Past Master Louis Sutter, chairman of your
Credentials Committee, and the Anglo California National Bank of San
F r ancisco, for making the necessary arrangements so that members may
cash their checks in this building at the close of the Grand Lodge session.
Checks will be ready for dis tribution following the election of the ] unior
Grand Warden.
Respectfully submitted,
] ORN

Barkeepers
Your committee has been approached by numerous brethren who feel
aggrieved because a Mason was expelled yesterday on the ground that
· he was a barkeeper and because they deemed it wise to amend our Ordinances to place a barkeeper in the same category as other employees of a

w. DAVEY,

F. WESLEY D AVIES,
LLOYD
HENRY

c. C AMPBELL,
w .. POTTS,
Committee.

Adopted.

366

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE

We feel that such a committee should be large enough so that its
membership could be dispersed throughout the state in order that . a
familiarity with conditions would rest in some member of the committee
wit.hout imposing undue traveling upon the part of its members. We also
believe that it should be appointed annually in order that the .work should
not become too burdensome.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In accord;mce with directions of this Grand Lodge at its last Annual
Commun.ication that the ] urisprudence Committee prepare legislation to
amend Section 12 of the Constitution and Section 31 of the Ordinances,
your committee now submits the following:
Resolved, that Section 12 be amended as follows: Strike the word
"fourth" in line 3 and substitute in lieu thereof the word "fifth" and that
Section 31 be amended as follows:
Strike the word "Tuesday" in line 2 and substitute the word "Monday."

We, therefore, approve the Grand Master's second recommenda~ion
and propose the enactment of the following legislation:
"Section 78. (a) There shall be a committee consisting of the
Grand Treasurer who shall be chairman, and the chairman of the
Co1:1mittee on Financ: and three members on Lodge financing,
which, except the chairman, shall be appointed annually by the
Grand Master; the chairman and any two of the committeemen
shall have power to act.
"(b) N~ 1:-odge financing, or refinancing, for the purchase of
lands or buildings, or the leasing for a longer term than three
years, or the erection, construction or alteration of any building
requiring the expenditure of more than two thousand five hundred
dollars, shall be entered into by any Lodge, or by any building
company, trusteeship, partnership or corporation representing itself
or themselves as Masonic in character or operating for the benefit
of Masons, Masonry, or a Masonic Lodge or Lodge without first
obtaining the writte? consent. of said committee; ~or shall any
such purchase, leasing, erect10n, construction or alteration be
entered into or commenced, whether or not the same involves the
immedi.ate expenditure of Lodge funds, without first obtaining the
aforesaid consent.

The sections would then read as follows:
"Section 12. The Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand
Wardens, Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary, and Grand Lecturer
shall be elected by ballot, at each Annual Communication, upon the
fifth day thereof. A majority of the votes cast shall be necessary
for an election. The Grand Lodge, by unanimous consent, may
permit any designated officer to cast the ballot for the Grand
Lodge. The elective officers shall be installed before the close of
·Grand Lodge, and shall hold their respective offices until their
successors shall have been elected and installed. (1942.)"
"Section 31. Each Annual Communication shall be held in the
City of San Francisco, commencing on the second Monday of
October, at ten o'clock a. m.; provided, however, that any Annual
Communication may be held at any other place in the State of
California upon adoption by this Grand Lodge at any previous
Annual Communication by a five-sixth vote of a resolution so
providing. (1942.)"

The report was adopted and the sections were amended as
set out above by unanimous vote.
The Grand Master at the 92nd Annual Communication recommended
the enactment of legislation which would give a committee of Grand Lodge
"general supervision over the financing of new temples, the refinancing of
old temples, and the financing of remodeling and construction wherever
such operations assume major proportions" and the same having been
referred to this committee it has had our consideration. A similar recommendation has been made by the Grand Master at this communication
and referred to this committee.
Such a committee has functioned for a number of years with wholly
beneficial results; the work of the committee has not only had a restraining
influence where such was needed, but the aid of the committee in working
out plans in financing has been of no little assistance to some of out
Lodges.
By Section 78 of the Ordinances such a committee consisting of two
ex-officio members and a third member appointed by the Grand Master
annually was created but its powers and duties have never · been specified;
the reference to the committee in Section 152 is a limitation on the use of
Lodge funds and not a grant of general powers. This condition should
be remedied.

357

"(c) The tern:is 'financing' and 'refinancing' shall embrace any
plan, schem.e, project or method whereby property is acquired or
money obtained for the purposes hereinbefore set forth, or any of
them."
·
Sec~ion 1.52. should .also,,be amended by striking therefrom the phrase
~faso~1c ~mlding Pro1ects and substituting therefor the phrase "Lodge
Fmancmg. The section would then read as follows:
.
'.'Sec.tion 152. All investments by a Lodge of its funds, including its hfe membership fund, shall be in securities prescribed as
legal ?.Y the. laws of the State of California or the Territory of
!fa"'.an for mvest.ments by savings banks or trustees; or, except
its life member~h1p fund, after the plan for financing a Masonic
Temple, ¥asomc Hall or o~her structure for the occupancy, in
~hole or m part, of a Masonic Lodge and the plans and specifications of su~h structure, together with estimates of costs, shall have
be.en submitted to and approved by a majority of the special comm1tt:e on Lodge Financing, and with the approval of said committee, m ~he. shares o'. a corporation owning or proposing to erect
such b~1l~mg; or, with the approval of said committee, in the land
and bmldmg of a Masonic Temple or Hall owned or proposed
to be.. erected by a !-odge. Under no circumstances shall life membership funds be invested other than in securities as above set
forth. ( 1942.)"

"

The report was adopted and the sections were amended as
set out above by unanimous vote.

369

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

There has been referred to your Committee on Jurisprudence,
I.
There may be no provision of our written law that prohibits a Lodge
from raising money by public entertainment, but we agree with the
Grand Master that such practice violates the true spirit and unwritten
law of Masonry. V-.'e, therefore, recommend that this decision be sustained.

[by registered mail and receiving in return a receipt signed by the
accused]." The words in brackets be added after the word "business."

368
deci~ion

Adopted.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred that part
of the Grand Master's message referring to decisions rendered by the
Grand Master, has had the same under consideration and reports as
follows:
Decisions numbered 2, 3, and 5:
We find each of them to be in accord with our Masonic · law, and
recommend their approval.

Adopted.
There has been referred to your Committee on Jurisprudence,
decision 4.
Your committee agrees with this decision of the Grand Master with
the understanding that the word "exemplify" means that it be confined
to an exhibition or portrayal of the manner in which so-called English
first degree is interpreted or presented by such degree team but not upon
an actual candidate. Section · 192 of the Ordinance requires that all degrees
must be conferred in strict accordance with the ritual which has been
or may hereafter be, ordained by this Grand Lodge.
'

Adopted.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has examined the records of the
issuance of dispensations for various purposes and approval of resolutions
of life memberships by the Grand Master, and find the same to be in
accordance with law.
We, therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand Master in
that respect be approved.

Adopted.
DANA R. WELLER,
GEORGE

L. ]ONES,

ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
JoHN STEWART Ross,

Committee.

The Jurisprudence .Committee to which was referred the resolution introduced by John Johnston, Past Master and Secretary of
George Washington Lodge No. 525, to amend Sections 298 and 308
as here set forth
Section 298. At the end of this section the following words be added,
"by mail." The last line of this section reads as follows: "It shall be leit
. at the residence or usual place of business of such brother (by mail) ."
Section 308. In the fourth sentence of this section starting with the
words: "or it shall be left at his ordinary residence or place of business

recommended that in as much as there were other sections which
would be affected, the matter be postponed until the next annual
communication, at which time it would be taken up as a matter
of unfinished business and the recommendation wa~ adopted.
· The Grand Master as an ex-officio member of the Committee
on Grand Lodge W e~k Activities, reported for that committee
that a well-devloped program of activities had been participated
in by all members of Grand Lodge and the necessary appropriation having been previously reported by the Finance Committee
and approved by Grand Lodge, the report of the Grand Master
was adopted.
At 5 :00 o'clock p. m. the Grand Lodge was called off until
10 :00 o'clock Friday morning.

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

lfn ~ranb 1Lobge
MORNING SESSION
Friday, October 16, 1942.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 a. m., the Grand Master
presiding.
At the invitation of the Grand Master, Past Grand Master
Samuel E. Burke invoked the blessing of God.
The Minutes of the sessions of Thursday were read and
approved.
By unanimous consent of Grand Lodge the Grand Lecturer,
Very Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, was permitted to present
a matter relative to an action on Thursday. The Grand Lecturer requested that Grand Lodge reconsider its action in classifying $6(X).00 appropriated to the Grand Lecturer as expense
and reclassify it as salary. Past Grand Master Crites, chairman
of the Finance Committee, made the motion transferring that
item from expense to salary and leaving the item of $200.00
for the Grand Tiler and $100.00 for the Grand Organist as
expenses, for which they would not be required to submit itemized statements, and the motion, duly seconded, was unanimously
carried.
To conform with the action on Thursday on the recommendation of the Committee 011 Policy and General Purposes recommending that the Grand Secretary attend the Conference of
Grand Secretaries, the Finance Committee recommended an
appropriation of .$500.00 to cover the expenses, the same to be
paid from the miscellaneous item of the budget, and the motion,
duly ·seconded, was carried.

371

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
· Your Committee on Credentials reports that the follo:-ving memb:~s
of Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled to parhc1pate in its deliberations:
Mileage Allowed
Name of Lodge
No. of Lodge
Representatives
California........................... No. !.... Raymond Haizlip, Master
Edward C. Lohmeyer, Sr. Warden
Bruce Q. Engle, Jr. Warden
T. Carmany, Past Master
Lee Crawford, Past Master
Daniel E. F. Easton, Past Master
James Hurst, Jr. Grand Deacon
Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand
Master
.
Western Star•..................:.No. 2 .... Andrew E . Brown, Sr. Warden........ 29.30
Tehama...............................No. 3.... George H. Haddy, Master.................. 5.90
Vyvan B. Lansberry, Sr. Warden
George A. Ambrose, Jr. Warden
Chas. A. Schwartz,. Deputy Grand
Lecturer ............................................... 5.90
Benicia................................No. 5.... Lester Fred Andrew, Master............ 2.30
Tuolumne........................... N o.· 8.... Harold Smith, Master........, ................. 7.30
Corinthian .......................... N o. 9.... William B. Oatt, Master.................... 8.30
Jesse D. McClung, Sr. Warden
J, W. Robinson, Inspector.................. 8.30
San Jose .....................;........No. 10.... Frank Elmer Short, Master.............. 3.20
•
J. S. Greenley, Inspector.................... 3.20
Lionel J. Worden, Past Master
Yount.................................. No. 12.... Chester Stanley Bush, Master.......... 3.20
Clarence Nye Riggins, Sr. Warden
J. J. Arnitz, Past Master
Nevada................................ No. 13.... Raymond V. Worthley, Master........ 10.30
Joseph F. Stenger, Past Master
John W. Darke, Past Master
Temple............................... No. 14.... Stanley Ketchel Coates, Master........ 3.00
Eureka................................ No. 16.... Marshall Z. Lowell, Master.............. 8.40
La Parfaite Union ............No. 17.... Prosper A. Sainges, Master
A. L. Auradou, Inspector
H . Mottet, Past Master
M. E. Diebold, Past Master
A. P. Girerd, Past Master ·
Mountain Shade............... No. 18.... S. N. McCormick, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 22.80
San Joaquin ....................... No. 19....Arthur Joseph Collins, Sr. Warden 5.60
Washington....................... N o. 20.... Hubert E . Geisreiter , Master............ 5.90
C. Clark Smith, Jr. Warden
C. J. Porterfield, Past Master
Walter L. Dosch, Past Master

372

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hawaiian ....................- ......No. 21.....~lexander D. Potts, Representative
Occidental........- ................No. 22.... William E . Bouton, Master
Robert S. Peters, Sr. Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Inspector
Ralph K. Marshall, Grand Tiler
0 . C. Baldwin, Past Master
William Penn Humphreys, Past
Master
Karl Jacob, Past Master
Alden Ames, Past Master
Madison ................ - ..........• N o. 23 .... Fred Lee Carroll, Master.................... 11.00
John Thomas, Sr. Warden
George L. Jones, Past Grand Master 11.30
Mariposa............................ No. 24.... Herman E. Freyschlag, Sr. Warden 19.20
James P . McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown....................... No. 25.... George Henry Schlein, Master.......... 8.40
Et Dorado..................- ...... No. 26.... Ellsworth A. Williard, Master.......... 9.80
John H . Palmer, Sr. Warden
Bert E . Pierroz, Jr. Warden
Harry L. Jasper, Inspector................• 9.80
Trinity..........,..................... No. 27.... Samuel A. Moran, Master.................. 20.20
C. A. Paulsen, Past Master
Golden- Gate........_............. No. 30.... Carl Moeller, Master
Fred A. Bradley, Sr. Warden
Harry K. Widup, Jr. Warden
A. F. Heuer, Past Master
Edward A. C. Wellesley, Past Master
Gold Hilt............................ No. 32.... Walter N. Young, Master.................. 7.80
Ophir..:...:...:.........:............. No. 33 ....J. T. Morley, Representative..............

6.00

San Diego...........................No. 35.... Chas. W. Webb, Master...................... 46.60
Alden J. Fulkerson, Sr. Warden
George Vv. Elder, Jr. Warden
Joseph L. Shell, Past Master............ 46.60
James B. McLees, Inspector .............. 46.60
Claude Morrison, Sr. Grand Warden 46.60
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master
Fred M. Thompson, Past Master
Howard............................ _No. 37 .... Chas. V. Shaffer, Sr. Warden............ 27.80
Santa Cruz......................... No. 38.... Alvin L. Weymouth, Sr. Warderi.... 5.20
Hugh S. Youngman, Jr. Warden
Fred H . Schlichting, Past Ma's ter
Willett Ware, Past Master
Henry Kaiser, Inspector...................... 5.20
Sacramento........................No. 40.... Mark S. Edson, Master........................ 5.90
Ronald M. Cate, Sr. Warden
Charles M. Smith, Past Master
Wm. Boyle, Past Master
Martinez.......................:._.. No. 41.... Stephen Ford Ball, Master................ 2.30
Lewis A. Penn, Sr. Warden
Louis Mittleman, Inspector................. 2.30

373

Los Angeles...........:_........ No. 42....Joseph D . Weisberg, Sr. Warden.... 38.20
Sidney K. Lehman', Assistant Grand
Lecturer .............................................. 38.20
· A. P. F. Hartnack, Past Master
Hiram..........,...................... No. 43.... Robert Bennett Penney, Rep............. 9.40
Mount Moriah ................... No. 44.... Leonard F. Taylor, Master
Alphonse F. Mailloux, Jr. Warden
E. E. Keough, Past Master
Crescent............................. No. 45.... Arthur F . Van Deventer, Master.... 24.70
Texas .................................. No. 46.... David F. Wright, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 5.60
Forbestown....................... No. 50....Jack Popper, Sr. Warden.................... 9.90
Illinoistown....................... No. 51.... Everett J . Hampton, Master............ 9.50
Suisun.................................No. 55....Joseph R. Chadbourne, Master........ 3.30
Volcano .............................. No. 56.... Swan S. Tremelling, Master.............. 6.00
Santa Rosa .......................:. No. 57.... Ernest F. Pegg, Jr., Sr. Warden...... 5.10
John Frank Aisen, Jr. Warden
K. F. Stolting, Inspector.................... 5.10
Raford W. Leggett, Past Master
J. T. Mailer, Past Master
Edward Thomas Koford, Past Master
Union.................................. No. 58.... Ernest L. Dryden, Master.................. 5.90
Vincent G. Bryson, Jr. Warden
L. D. Armstrong, Inspector................ 5.90
J. C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range .................... No. 59.... Eric W. Nelson, Master.................... 11.30
Plumas ................................ No. 60.... (No attendance)
Live Oak............................ No. 61.. .. Edwin G. Henderson, Master
Ernest A. Hoffman, Sr. Warden
Clarence G. Warren, Jr. Warden
C. A. ,Severin, Inspector
C. J. Macintyre, Past Master
Natoma............................... No. 64....Joseph H. Miller, Master.................... 7.30
Amador.............................. No. 65 .... George R. Shadle, Master.................. 5.60
Forest................................. No. 66.... (Not represented)
Morning Star.....................No. 68.... William J. Miller, Master.................. 5.60
Richard A. Rea, Sr. Warden
Stanley H. Wentz, Jr. Warden
Enterprise....................:..... N o. 70.... Alvin H. Pelton, Master.................... 8.30
Warren E. Bain, Jr. Warden
Hugh Dickson Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain.................. No. 76....James Girardi, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 5.90
Calaveras............................ N o. 78.... Chas. F , Schwoerer, Master.............. 6.00
Humboldt.......................... No. 79 .... Howard B. Melendy, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 24.70
James T. Fraser, Past Grand Master 24.70
Ione..................................... No. 80.... Charles E. Gustavson, Sr. Warden.. 4.00
J. W. Sibole, Inspector........................ 5.60
Yolo.................................... N.o. 81.. .. Charles E. Patton, Sr. Warden........ 6.10
Vesper................................. No. 84 .... David F. Nock, Sr. Warden .............. 17.90

374

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

NavaL............·-·········- ·····-No. 87 .... Ralph T. Edington, Master................ 2.20
Arnold L. Olsen, Sr. Warden
Paul C. Hansen, Jr. Warden
Paul E . Meyers, Past Master
Mark T. Andrews, Past Master
E . C. Fulger, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Phillip S. Creedon, Past Master
Joseph A. Johns, Past Master
James Bitcon, Past Master
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
Rose's Bar........................-No. 89 .... Richard Ray Beatty, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 8.30
North Star......................... No. 91.. .. (No attendance)
St. Helena .......................... No. 93 .... Archie ]. Johnson, Jr. Warden........ 4.40
John Wichels, Past Master
Henry Clay ...........·--··-···No. 95 .... Christopher Obradovich, Past Master and Representati,ve.................... 6.00
·
Charles M. Geller, Past Master
Hornitos ............................. N o. 98 .... (No attendance)
Yosemite ............................ No. 99 .... 0wen L. Craghead, Inspector and
Representative .................................. 13.90
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Master .... 18.20
Clay ....: ......·- ···- ················-No. 101....William H . Herbeck, Master ............ 15.00
H . W. Haberkorn, Past Master
Oroville .............................. No. 103 .... Hubert I. Townsend, Sr. Warden.... 9.90
Harold L. Mason, In spector.............. 9.90
Lexington .......................... No. 104....Walter C. Dachsteiner, Master .......... 39.20
Frank M. Wright, Inspector ............ 39.50
Arcata .................................No. 106.... Leslie M. Stromberg, Sr. Warden .... 24.70
Pajaro................................. No. 110.... William M. Strohn, Master................ 6.60
William Haufe, Sr. Warden
Chico.....:............................. No. 111.... Vernon P. Van Nuys, Sr. Warden .. 11.20
Summit ........ ,...................... No. 112.... ( No attendance)
Eden .................................... No. 113.... Lars T . Thompson, Sr. Warden
Howard L. Leard, Past Master
Sidney Briggs Force, Past Master
Concord .............................:No. 117.... B. L. Sieferman, Master.................... 5.90
Ralph H . Langner, Jr. Warden
A. L. Johnson, Past Master
F :Jelity ...............................No. 120.... Lloyd M. Bloom, Master
Robert S. Peiser, Sr. Warden
Morris Goldstein, Jr. Warden
Philipp Jacobovics, Past Master
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Abraham Jacobs, Past Master
M. D. Sapiro, Past Master
Alamo ................................. No. 122.... Charles G. Faisst, Past Master
.
John T . Schroder, Jr., Sr. Warden.. 2.50
Sotoyome ........................... No. 123 .... Leland H . Dibble, Sr. Warden.......... 4.50
Table Mountain ................ No. 124.... (No attendance)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

La Fayette ......._. ........•....... No. 126.... Percy G. Orpin, Master......................
Ernest A. Feaks, Past Master
Hermann .~.....................;.... No. 127 ....Ernest Gentner, Master
Moritz Dietrich, Sr. Warden
Karl Albuschkat, Jr. Warden
Hans E. Warncke, Past Master
Richard H. Dachner, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
Louis Muller, Past Master
Emil A. Neumarkel, Past Master

375
3.30

Visalia ................................ No. 128 ....J. B. McClure, Past Master and Rep. 20.40
Nicolaus ............................. No. 129 ... .]ames F. Taresh, Sr. Warden............ 8.30
Woodbridge ...................... No. 131.. .. Clyde H. Gregg, Sr. Warden............ 6.00
John R. MacArthur, Jr. Warden
.
Sincerity ..........................;.. No. 132.... C. C. Siebe, Jr. Warden ...................... 31.30
Vacaville .............................No. 134.... ( No attendance)
Valley................................. No. 135 ....R. M. Foote, Inspector .. ·-·········:·········· 5.60
Walter Freeman, Representative...... 5.60
Pacific .................................No. 136. __ Henry A. Emmrich, Master
William J. McAllister, Jr. Warden
Paul Na than, Past Master
A. J. Rosenberg, Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Joseph Ehling, Past Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
Crockett ............................. No. 139 .... Ralph L. Mallett, Master
Hanns H. Stratmann, Sr. Warden
W . A. H . Fleischer, Ins pector
B. S. Pedersen, Past Master
W . K~hn, Past Master
Wilbert H. Mason, Past Master
Zina Callaham, Past Master
Curtis ..................................No. 140.... S. E. Sanford, Past Master and Rep. 5.20
Grafton ...............................No. 141.. .. Walter M. Cougle, Master:................. 5.70
Franklin ............................. No. 143 .... (No attendance)
Oriental... ........................... No. 144.... Ralph E. Shupe, Master
Milton]. Burghart, Sr. Warden
George D. Gavin, Jr. Warden
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
L. P . Hansen, Past Master
Alfred J . Snow, Past Master
Edwin Hansen, Past Master
W. S. Davis, Past Master
Roy N. Buell, Past Master
R. H. Hartje, Past Master
D. L. Berry, Past Master
H. M. Jeffreys, Past Master
Chas. ·R. Brown, Past Master
George B. Lake, Sr., Past Master
Chas. T. Clark, Past Master
Frank C. Martin, Past Master
Vitruvius ............................No. 145 .... Helberg P . Kristensen, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 2.60

377

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Abell ..................- ............... No. 146.... Mervin D. Perkins, Sr. Warden........ 5.40
Eel River ....- .....••... :.....•..... No. 147.... Curtis Dean Reese, Master ................ 21.30
Adolph Alexander Kaski, Jr. Warden
W. G. Orman, Inspector .................... 18.50
Lassen ...........•..................... No. 149.... (No attendance)
Molino...•............................ No. 150.... Lewis R. Will, Sr. Warden ................ 12.40
Woodland .......................... No. 156 .... Fred V. Prewett, Sr. Warden............ 5.70
Keystone ............................ No.161.. .. (No attendance)
Harmony,....................., ..... No. 164.... Ernest M. Innes, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 22.80
Excelsior............................ N o. 166.... William B. Rixon, Master
Cecil C. Schulze, Sr. Warden
Paul S. Sand, Jr. Warden
B. T. Baker, Inspector
Chas. Albert Adams, Past Grand
Master
Alameda ............................. No. 167 .... Ralph A. Richmond, Sr. Warden.... 2.50
Redwood City ...•..............• No. 168.... Raymond G. Kelly, Master................ 1.80
Henry W. Potts, Sr. Warden............ 1.80
L. A. Heiner, Past Master
Mission .............................. No. 169.... Jack E. Hursh, Master
William E . Nutz, Sr. Warden
Arthur Frediani, Jr. Warden
Robert E . Allan, Past Master
Lew E. Wallace, Past Master
Elk Grove..............•........... No. 173 .... Melville P. Idzinga, Master................ 5.90
Thomas Lukens Conrad, Past Master
Drytown ............................. No. 174....John Ferrera, Master............................ 6.00
Antioch .............................• No. 175 .... (No attendance)
Phoenix.............................. No. 178.... Emil T. Stahl, Master.......................... 42.10
Arthur L. Spence, Sr. Warden
J. W. Curtis, Past Master
Wm. E. Young, Past Master
Mendocino ......................... No. 179 .... Clarence Freathy, Jr. Warden .......... 18.50
Petaluma ............................ No. 180.... James M. Hoyrup, Master.................. 2.60
Russian River ................... No. 181.. .. Julius Giorgi, Master ............................ 11.60
Arbuckle .......................... :.No. 182.... (No attendance)
Clear Lake ......................... No. 183 .... W. J. Robbert, Jr. Warden................ 5.00
Sierra Valley..................... No. 184.... A. E. Strang, Sr. Warden .................. 23.00
Clalborne ............................ No. 185 .... James D. Moungovan, Master.. ........ 18.50
Evening Star................•- .. No. 186.... (No attendance)
Keith .........................•.......• No. 187....J. Wentworth, Sr. Warden................ 5.20
Geo. E, Skillicorn, Past Master
Oakland .............................. No. 188.... John Alden Stohr, Master
Wm. J. Kitto, Sr. Warden
John G. Evans, Jr. Warden
Sophus Nelson, Inspector
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Grand
Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Jr., Past Master

Will R. Hill, Past Master
Frank A. West, Past Master
Northern Light................. No. 190.... William G. Wagoner, Sr. Waqien .. 20.20
l\farin .................................. N o. 191.... J. E. Tourtellotte, Master
Clinton T. Duffy, Sr. Warden
Horace Rice, Past Master
Harry F. Meilink, Past Master
H. S. Vandel, Past Master
Santa Barbara.~ .... :............ No. 192.... Coleman E. Stewart, Master .............. 30.20
John MacKellar, Jr. Warden
Ira E. Kramer, Past Master
Ferndale:............................ No. 193 ....John R. Blackburn, Sr. Warden ........ 23.70
Mountain View ................No. 194.... James B. Bartle, Master .......... :........... 2.00
Buckeye.............•................ No. 195 .... (No atten<;lance)
San Simeon ........................ No. 196 .... 0tto Reali, Master................................ 21.10
Wilmington ....................... No. 198.... Garfield Tyler, Master ................. ,...... 38.20
Charles E . Moore, Sr. Warden
Hartley .......... :............;......... No. 199.... D. B. Morrison, Sr. \Varden.............. 6.40
Roy I. Vann, Jr. Warden
Guido de Ghetaldi, Inspector............ 6.40
Truckee .............................. No. 200 .... Robert Elden Tonini, Sr. Warden .... 18.60
Silveyville .......................... N o. 201.. .. (No attendance)
Pentalpha .........................:.No. 202 .... Wm. R. Hervey, Jr., Master .............. 38.20
J. B. Chapman, Jr. Warden
L . C. Kelley, Grand Orator .............. 38.20
James B. Gist, Past Grand Master .. 38.20
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Past Grand
Master ................................................ 38.20
Theodore T. Spurgeon, Past Master
Confidence ......................... No. 203 .... Walter C. Buttle, Sr. Warden............ 7.20
Salinas ............................,.... No. 204 .... Richard D. Merrill, Master................ 7.60
Olivet.................................. No. 205 ....Joseph M. Glick, Sr. Warden ............ 11.90
Stanislaus ........................... No. 206 .... John C. Ripley, Sr. Warden.............. 6.80
George R. Stoddard, Past Master
Anaheim ............................. No. 207 ....John M. Casey, Master ........................ 40.10
Rio Vista ............................ No. 208 .... William Coover, Jr. Warden.............. 6.00
King David's: .................... No. 209 .... Clyde H. Snyder, Master .................... 21.10
John Gregg Jones, Jr. Warden
William Sharp, Inspector.................... 21.10
Friendship ........................• No. 210 .... Eugene W. Moore, Master·-············· 3.20
Arthur E. Caton, Sr. Warden
William B. Hiner, Jr. Warden
D. J. Sedwick, Past Master
A. J. Miner, Past Master
Edwin H. Kocher, Past Master
San Benito......................... No. 211.. .. John David Krone, Master................ 6.10
So. San Francisco ............ No. 212 .... Frederick Junker, Sr. Warden
C. F. Hensel, Past Master
W. G. Green, Past Master
Simon M. McDonald, Past Master

376

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sau Bueuaventura ............ No. 214.... Howard V. Keir, Master .................... 33.20
William D. Brewer, Sr. Warden
Carl A. Miller, Jr. Warden ·
Oak Grove ......................... No. 215 .... Arthur F. Strehlow, Master
Wm. Nankervis, Jr., Sr. Warden
Sidney F. Gleb, Jr. Warden
Doric ................................... No. 216 .... Edward S. Aaron, Master
Samuel I. Jacobs, Sr. Warden
George L. Jacobs, Jr. Warden
Manuel Lafee, Past Master
Mouterey ........................... No. 217 .... Leonard Le Rose, Master.................. 8.10
Wm. J. Crabbe, Sr. Warden
Clyde H. Warren, Past Master
Mosaic ......... ~ ...................... No. 218 .... George Harold Hansen, Master........ 3.20
George Harvey Saunders, Sr. Warden
' Manley J. Clark, Inspector................ 3.20
Speranza Italiana............ N o. 219 .... Louis Calderoni, Master
J . M. Icardo, Inspector
Frank Caroli, Past Master
G. B. Cordano, Past Master
Anthony Cogliandro, Past Master
John Icardi, Past Master
John Isola, Past Master
Downey......................... ;.... No. 220 .... Marvyn D.' Broyles, Sr. Warden ...... 40.10
lnyo.....................................No. 221.. .. Fred A. Schaefer, Sr. Warden .......... 41.10
Roseville ............................. No. 222 .... Joseph E. Neuerburg, Master............ 7.20
Lucas Schaffer, Inspector.................. 7.20
Bakersfield ......................... No. 224 .... Elbert S. Tolle, Master ...................... 25.90
Lloyd E. Howell, Sr. Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand M"aster 25.90
Henry Eissler, Past Master.. .............. 25.90
H. C. Mack, Inspector ........................ 25.90
Brooklyn ...................... :..... No. 225 .... Theodore Jos. Ronpage, Jr. Warden
Roy H. Lenthall, Inspector
Louis Sutter, Past Master
Sau Mateo .......................... No. 226 .... Ray Forest Eggers, Master
G. W. Deraimer, Sr. Warden
Belton Rhodes, Jr. Warden
Miles M. Anderson, Past Master
J. R. Eubanks, Past Master
Atheus .........•...................... No. 228 .... Edgar H. Markham, Sr. Warden.... 5.10
Solano ................................. No. 229 .... Merritt L. Winchell, Master.............. 2.20
Alton Forest Jackson, Sr. Warden ·
L. P. Dunne, Past Master
North Butte ....................... No. 230 .... Marvi11 ]. Cassady, Sr. Warden........ 9.50
Covelo................................. No. 231 .... (No attendance)
Janesville ............................ No. 232 .... (No attendance)
Calistoga ............................ No. 233 .... Herbert W. Washburn, Master........ 5.00
Hope................................... No. 234 .... (No attendance)
SurpriseValley................. No. 235 .... (No attendance)
Hills Fefry......................... No. 236 .... W. S. Thompson, Representative
and Inspector .................................... 7.30

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

379

Guadalupe .......................... No. 237 ....John D. McGregor, Sr. Warden ...... 22.70
No. 240 .... E. L. Hicok, Inspector........................ 9.10
C0 I
usa.................................
William Brooks, Representative ...... · 9.10
. 241.. .. Dale
. A. Griggs, Master...................... 4010
· .
S anta A na.......................... No.
Roswell
F. Reid, Sr. Warden
.
A. H. Allen, Inspector ........................ 40.10
Magnolia ............................ No. 242 .... Chas. L. Te.nney, Jr. Warden ............ 30.20
.J:lalph C. Hme, Inspector .................... 30. 20
A. Braford,
Master.................. 1.44
E ucaI yptus......................... No. 243 .... Harry
w. F. Flierl,
Past Master
Harrington,
Master
Alcatraz.............................. No . 244 .... Harold
John F. R.
Randolph,
Jr. Warden
Carl C. Eien, Past Master
E. A. Clothier, Past Master
A. A. Campbell, Past Master
Lewis Thornton Corwin, Past Master
Laurel..:.,............................ No. 245 .... Howard R. Allard, Sr. Warden ........ 10.~0
No. 246 .... Roy E. McCann, Master .................... 39. 0
P
omona..............................
Chas. T. Richardson, Sr. Warden
Vernon Allen Boyes, Jr. Warden
Fresno ................................ No. 247 .... Philip D. Elli thorpGe, Srd. LWatrde? .. ·· 17.60
Chester War 1ow, ran
ec urer .... 17.60
]. W. Warner, Past Master
D. H. Fisher, Past Master
H. F. White, Past Master
Altur~s ............................... No. 248 .... Chas. S. Baldwin, Inspector .............. 31.20
Adin .................................... No. 250 .... (No attendance)
Landmark.......................... No. 253 .... (No attendance)
Reading .............................. No. 254 .... William S. Stephens, WSr. Wd arden .... 20.20
Emil M. Wickert, Jr.
ar en
G. C. DeForest, Jr. Grand Warden .. 20.20
McCoy Fitl!:gerald, Past Master
Welcome ............................ No. 255 .... Edwin E. Hurlburt, SMr. Warden ...... 20.40
A. D. Warnock, Past aster
Lodi... .................................. No. 256 ....Earl H. Botts, Sr. Warden................ 5.90
T. G. Wright, Inspector...................... 5.90
Penrhyn ............................. No. 258 .... George Sanderson, Sr. Warden........ 7.80
E
No. 259 .... William M. Kirkpatrick, Master ...... 42.10
vergreen..........................
Richard A. Steves, Jr. Warden
Willard G. Babcock, Inspector ........ 42.10
J. MacDougall, Past Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master...... 42.10
King Solomon's ................ No. 260 .... Robert L. Dreyfus, Master
Albert 0. Rier, Sr. Warden
Gilbert A. Benoit, Jr. Warden
W. K. Cullen, Past Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Henry L. Green, Past Master
Tuscan ................................ No. 261.. .. H. A. Atwoo~, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 8 .40
Lompoc............................... No. 262 .... Herbert 'c. Rios, Sr. Warden ............ 26.40
Hesperian ........................... No. 264.... Jerry H. Madsen, Sr. Warden .......... 22.70

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Orland............... _______________ No. 265 .... Paul Blacet, Sr. Warden......:.......,..... 11.00
Herman Thode, Inspector.................. 11.00
North East.........................No. 266.... (No attendance)
Gall.......;........_ ................. No. 267.... 0ra Oyer, Master................................ 5.90
Durant................ - ............. No. 268....John C. Lewis, Master
Niles 0. Millar, Inspector
Walter \V. Bradley, Past Master
B. J . Roo;e, Past Master
Olive Branch..................... No. 269.... Chas. E. Harper, Master.................... 20.50
Arthur B. Ledbetter, Sr. Warden
.
E. A. Sweet, Past Master
;now Mountain ................ No. 271.. .. Eldon A. Garland, Jr. Warden.......... 8.90
asadena............................ No. 272.... Harvey H . Deeter, Master................ 39.10
Loren E. Otis, Sr. Warden
Anchor.........•.................- ...No. 273.... Benjamin J . Little, Master................ 38.20
Reese V. Kerr, Sr. Warden
Ralph K. Pierson, Inspector.............. 38.20
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
.
Arroyo.......·--···:················No. 274.... (No attendance)
Oakdale.............................. No. 275 .... Glen Coy Chatfield, Sr. Warden...... 7.70
Bernard F. Hoisholt, Inspector........ 7.70
Se 1ma ....................,.............. No. 277.... Sidney L. Cruff, Sr. Warden ............ 18.70
Southern California ......... No. 278.... E. C. Gadden,. Sr. \Varden ................ 38.20
J . M. A~~in, Jr, Warden
C. A. Y~rnell, Past Master
Dana R ..Weller, Past Grand Master 38.20
E . B. Spencer, Past Master
C. T . Medler, Past Master
Hanford..............................No. 279.... Chas. C. Vasey, Sr. Warden .............. 19.90
M
,
Wm. H. Baxter, Inspector.............._ 20.40
adera ................................ No. 28Q.... Howard L. Riggs, Sr. Warden ........ 11.60
Mason A. Bailey, Jr. Warden
Mt. Shasta..:....................... No. 28L .. Ralph E . LaBarre, Sr. Warden ........ 19.40
Callayomi........................... No. 282.... Lorin B. Hunt, Master........................ 5.00
D. A. Read, Past Master
South West........................No. 283.... R. Stratton, Master ............................... 46.60
R. F. Milligan, Sr. Warden
;an MigueL.......................No. 285.... 0rin I. Compton, Master.................. 18.10
,;~o Robles .......................No. 286....J. Patrick Green, Sr. Warden............ 14.10
M mnedumah ........•............No. 287.... Leon L. Hawkins, Sr. Warden ........ 31.50
axwe!L. .......................... N,0. 288.... Louis George Sutton Master
8 90
Elsinor
·
'
· ............ ·
e..............................No. 289.... Sidney J ohn Winter, Sr. W arden .... 43.60
E
ast Gate........ "····--·-·······-~o. 290.... R. C. McCall, Master.......................... 38.20
W. V. Ahrens, Sr. Warden
Eric S. Flett, Past Master
Robert Edgar Esterbrook, Past Master
Edward Lee Stephens, Grand Bible
Bearer ................................................ 38.20
.Frank M. Smith, Grand Master........ 38.20
Leo D. Hershell, :Past Master
Ralph Smith, Past Master.................. 38.20

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORN I A

381

Santa Paµla .....~~---·····-~ ---···· No. 291.. .. E verett H . Williams, Master............ 33.20
G. A. Quick, Inspector............. ·- ········ 33.20
Los Gatos ...........................No. 292.... Courtney Tr.emaine, Sr. W arden...... 3.40
William J ones, Past Master
Orang e Grove................... N o. 293.... Clyde F. Feldner, Master ........:......... 40.10
J ohn T . Mclni:iis, Sr. Warden . ·
Leon 0 . W hitsell, P ast Grand Master
Traver...............•.................N o. 294 ....W arren Albertson, P ast Master and
Representative .................................. 14.30
Mt. Jackson....................... N o. 295 .... 0re Ed Rundquist, Representative.. 5.00
Silver Ga.te .........:,.............. N o. 296.... F rederick Stephen Weed, Inspector 46.60
Raymond Pratt W akeman, Past
Master and Representative ............ 46.60
Dunsmuir ..,........................ N o. 297 .... F. M . Stone, J r. W arden.................... 25.60
Liberty.................,..............No. 299.... Robert M. Moore, Sr. Warden........ 3.00
Ralph D. McElroy, Jr. W arden
C. 0 . Burrell, Inspector...................... 3.00
J . T. Allen, Past Master
R edlands ............................ No. 300.... E dward L. Jury, Sr. W arden ............ 42.60
Arthur P . Crim, Sr., Past Master .... 42.60
Ray Church, Past Ma ster
Ontario ...............................N o. 301.... George H . Swindells, Master..............40.90
Herbert W m. Bragg, Sr. W arden
Santa Lucia....................... No. 302.... Achilles F . F ranscioni, Master .......... 10.60
Porterville ..........................No. 303.... A lbert V. Button, Master ...............,.. 22.10
John H. Guthrie, Sr. Warden
Obed Carr, Asst. Grand L ecturer .... 21.00
Reed ley......................._......No. 304 .... Harry E . K imes, Sr. Warden............ 19.10
J ohn G. H ein, Past Master
Azusa .................................. No. 305.... Raymond J. Lamm, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 39.90
George Rodecker, P ast Master
Ashlar.............................!... N o. 306.... R. W. Nicol, Master............................ 42.10
J . J. H . Smith, Sr. W arden
A. J . Erichsen, Inspector.................. 42. 10
Wm. L. Steph ens, P ast Master
Santa Monica.................... N o. 307.... B. C. Jackson, Master ........................ 38.20
D . E. Shackman, Sr. Warden
Monrovia ............................No. 308.... C. E. Emberson, Master .................... 39.50
C. B. Caldwell, Sr. Warden
Delano................................ No. 309....Jesse J . Paden, Master............:........... 23.80
Sisson..................................N o. 310.... Vance S. Brown, Sr. Warden............ 29.20
Los B anos .......................... No. 312 .... A lexander R. Cocke, Sr. Warden...... 8.60
T ehachapi..........,..............• N o. 313 ....J ames H . Strada!, Master .................. 29.10
Harry J. Beaufor d, Past Master
H. R. Bandhauer, P ast Master
Robert G. Nelson; P ast Master
Temescal............................N o. 314.... Homer H . Holton, Sr. Warden........ 43.10
N orwa.i"k............................. No. 315 ....Sam Lane Jolley, Sr. Warden .......... 38.90
Sanger ................................ No. 31 6.... ( No attendance)
F allbrook ........................... No. 317.... George E. K ingston, Master .............. 46.60
0

383

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

EmmanueL...·-·············-·No. 318.... Golden W. Sitton, Sr. Warden........ 9.70
Hollenbeck.....,.................. No. 319.... Elmer M. Spicher, Master .................. 38.20
Edward Piner, Sr. Warden
Leon C. Glendenning, Past Master
Leo V. Youngworth, Past Master
South Gate......................... No. 320.... Cyril H . Hense, Master...................... 38.20
David H. Terry, Sr. Warden
·
Fred E . U ssh er, Past Master
Martin L. Griffith, Past Master
AlisaL.....................;..........N o. 321....Edwin E. Orloff, Master.................... 2.80
Melvin Howard Nielsen, Sr. Warden
James W. Sheffield, Jr. Warden
Alhambra........................... No. 322.... H. C. Davis, Sr. Warden .................... 38.80
Sloan Pitzer, Past Master
Francis Freeborn, Past Master
Whittier............................. No. 323 ....William Emery, Sr. Warden.............. 39.20
John Endicott Chapin, Jr. Warden
Corona................................ No. 324....J. Arnold Davis, Master...................... 39.10
Sankey A. Knudsen, Sr. Warden ·
Consuelo............................ No. 325 .... Herbert B. Livers, Master .................. 46.60
Lomax Smith, Sr. Warden
Needles...............................No. 326.... Carl C. Mikesell, Inspector................ 50.40
Long Beach .......................No. 327.... Claude Robert Freeman, Master...... 38.20
Marion Alexander Duncan, Sr. Warden
Charles A. Weise, Past Master
Redonao.............................No. 328....John A. Middleton, Sr. Warden ........ 38.20
Vallee De France............. No. 329....M. Vanbroeck, Master ........................ 38.20
Auguste Blanchard, Inspector .......... 38.20
Kilauea ...............................No. 330....Alexander D. ·Potts, Representative
Pacific Grove................- .. No. 331.. .. Clarence A. Higgins, Jr. Warden.... 8.30
Claude Higgins, Past Master
Russell W . Giles, Inspector................ 7.60
Arch Balchin, Past Master
George Schuyler, Past Master
Clyde F . Dyke, Past Master
.
San Pedro.......................... No. 332.... Charles De Vries, Mas.t er .................... 38.20
Victor L. Stagnaro, Sr. Warden
Alta............................._...... No. 333 .... Earl Heavrin, Master.......................... 25.20
Covina....................._.......... No. 334....James G. Hodges, Jr. Warden .......... 39.90
West Gate-........................ No. 335 ....Harry W. Link1 Mast er...................... 38.20
·
Milton L. Lappin, Sr. Warden
Fruitvale............................ No. 336.... Russell Horstmann, Past Master
Harold 0. Sjoberg, Past Master
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Carquinez........:................. No. 337 .... Ray W. Solberg, Master'.................... 2.00
B. F. Scribner, Past Master
Richard P. Jones, Past Master'
San Jacinto........................ No. 338.... Maure Hurt, Master.. .......................... 44.60
Hardus Sorkness, Inspector.............. 44.70
Fullerton............................ No. 339.... Lucien Canda, Master .......................... 39.80
C. S. Chapman, Past Master.............. 39:80

Henry C. McMaster, Inspector........ 39.80
William T. Rodger, Past Master
Oxnard........~...................... No. 341....William J. Williams, Master.............. 33.80
San Fernando................... No. 343.... Wm. H. Gale, Sr. Warden.................; 36.90
Starr King........................: No. 344.... Homer C. Ransom, Sr. Warden
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
Charles Wollenberg, Past Grand
Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Clyde C. Hinshaw, Past Master
Walter M. Goldberg, Past Master
Arthur Soloman, Past Master
Carl Cohn, Past Master
Fred W. Beitler, Past Master
Lester T. Goldmeyer, Past Master
Alfred Breslauer, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master
Brentwood......................... No. 345 .... (No attendance)
Palo Alto............................No. 346.... Ralph Clifton Coppock, Jr., Master 2.10
A. N . Humphreys, Past Master
Newton W. Glaeser, Past Master
McKinley........................... No. 347 ....John DeLos Williams, Master
Harry Ibbotson, Sr. Warden
Clare Otis Bryant, Jr. Warden
Rolla L. Eubanks, Inspector.............. 1.10
San Bernardino................ No. 348 .... Edgar T. Ham, Master........................ 42.10
Ray O 'Bier, Jr. Warden
Ralph Logsdon, Inspector.................. 42.10
Sequoia............................... No. 349.... Henry S. Savage, Jr., Master
J . Walter Proctor, Sr. Warden
Robert Roy York, Jr. Warden
John R. MacGregor, Past Master
Jesse F . Mote, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
Earl Warren, Past Grand Master
Wesley W. Kergan, Past Master
Palestine.............................No. 351.... H. E . Lestmann, Sr. Warden............ 38.20
Thomas J . McDonald, Past Master
Sunset.................................No. 352....R. H. Head, Master.............................. 38.20
Wm. M. Ketteringham, Sr. Warden
George Delavan, Jr., Inspector.......... 38.20
Rollie W. Miller, Past Grand Master 38.20
Lloyd C. Campbell, Past Master...... 38.20
Samuel E . Burke, Past Grand Master ...........................................-........... 38.20
Pihole................................. No. 353.... Harry Z. Howell, Master.................... 2.00
George W . Pfeiffer, Past Master
Presidio ......:....................... No. 354.... Bernard B. Neider, Master
Louis E. Boivin, Past Master
Edward H . Wilkins, Past Master
Hollywood......................... No. 355 .... Ira Wm. Merrill, Master.................... 38.20
·
James Wm. Crosby, Sr. Warden
Dean B. Myers, Jr. Warden

382

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

William B. Ogden, Past Grand
Master ................................................ 38.20
Robert T. Minton, Past Master
Robert R. Rankin, Past Master
Dudley F. Black, Past Master
Walter F. Burbank, Past Master
Leo Anderson, Past Master.............. 38.20
Mill Valley......................... No. 356.... H. F. Cagwin, Sr. Warden
Frederick A. Penn, Inspector
A. F. Thomas, Past Master
Samuel M. Burt, Past Master
Stanley Aitchison, Past Master
Buena Park........................ No. 357....Theodore R. Siems, Master................ 40.10
Golden State......................No. 358.... E. G. Hook, Master.............................. 38.20
W. R. Cram, Jr. Warden
Ben G. Wright, Past Master
Loyalton ............................. N o. 359.... Raymond G. Hartwell, Master.......... 24.70
Joel S. Conklin, Inspector.................. 24.70
San Francisco.................... No. 360 .... L. G. Stevenson, Master
H. W . Smith, Sr. Warden
C. D. Johnson, Jr. Warden
Alfred J. Thibodeau, Past Master
Earle Freeman, Past Master
John E. Rebard, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand
Secretary
Ross K. Roper, Past Master
Harry L. Alves, Past Master
Fort Bragg.:................~ .... No. 361.... Byron D. Bohn, Sr. Warden.............. 18.50
Charity............................... No. 362....T. A. Robinson, Past Master and
Representative ······:·······················:··· 3.40
Berkeley .............................No. 363 ....C. H. Edwards, Sr. Warden
Lyall 0. Bishop, Jr. Warden
0. J. Jahnsen, Past Master
Charles McKelvey, Past Master
Willits ................................. No. 365 .... Sidney Black, Sr. Warden.................. 6.50
Las Palmas........................ No. 366.... Arthur Lee Hilderbrand, Master...... 17.60
W. R. Tanzer, Past Master
James Ralph Erskine, Past Master
South Pasadena................ No. 367....John R. Reid, Sr. Warden .................. 39.10
Horace Vedder, Inspector.................. 39.10
John B. Edmondson, Past Master
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity...................................No. 368.... Charles C. Stillman, Master.............. 37.80
Bernard C. Brennan, Sr. Warden
Harmon A. Strong, Past Master
Ocean Park........................No. 369 .... Raymond R. White, Master.............. 38.20
Edwin F. Collins, Sr. Warden
Amity................................. No. 370.... Frank William Bieg, Master
John Henry Lalor, Sr. Warden
Edwin Starr Milot, Jr. Warden
Henry Otto Hammerich, Past Master

Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Nelson D. Christenson, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanie... No. 371.. .. Alexander D. Potts, Grand Standard Bearer ....., ....................................250.00
Gardena.............................. No. 372.... Archie Smith, Sr. Warden .................. 38.20
West Los . Angeles.......... No. 373 ....John F. Travis, Master........................ 38.20
George W. Riggs, Sr. Warden
JeweL. ................................ No. 374.... Elmer James, Master
Charles Ernest Anderson, Grand
Organist
Louis P. Mayer, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Curtis Benton, Past Master
Arnold Engel, Past Master
Otto Freyermuth, Past Master
Richmond .......................... No. 375 ....John B. Bieg, Master
Charles C. Diebold, Sr. Warden
Emil K. Bender, Inspector
A. J. Boge, Past Master
J . H. Conner, Past Master
F. C. Ruppel, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
E. L. Fischer, Past Master
Wm. C. Johnson, Past Master
Francis Drake................... No. 376.... David Broom, Sr. Warden
Artesia................................ No. 377 .... Roy B. Pierce, Sr. Warden................ 38.90
Mizpah................................ No. 378.... Virgil C. Fisher, Sr. Warden ............ 38.20
Van Bureri Heady, Jr. Warden
Fillmore.............................. No. 379 .... Herman J. Haase, Master.......,.......... 33.80
W. Howard Price, Sr. Warden
Graham B. Palmer, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach........... No. 380.... Perry L. Huddle, Master.................... 41.00
Harry E. Sallade, Sr. Warden
Oceanside..........•................ No. 381.. .. Dale 0. Peet, Paster............................ 42.90
'
George A. Otis, Inspector.................. 42.90
Highland Park.................. No. 382.... F. W. Pond, Master............................ 38.20
H. S. Snow, Sr. Warden
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Warren Tait, Past Master
Albert Bennison, Past Master
Orosi.............:..................... No. 383 .... Edwin R. Hoff, Past Master.............. 20.50
El Centro............................No. 384.... Frederick Wm. Peterson, Master.... 55.80
Raynor C. Clemons, Sr. Warden
Charles Henry Knights, Inspector.. 55.80
John Stewart Ross, Past Grand
Master ................................................ 38.20
Dinuba................................ No. 385 .... George A. Graham, Master................ 19.50
Rufus V. McCray, Sr. Warden
Clarence L. Fraser, Inspector............ 19.50
Coalinga............................. No. 387.... F. W. Spear, Jr. Warden ....!... ............ 22.70
Parnassus........................... N o. 388.... George Kenneth Crandall, Master
Frank Vignola, Sr. Warden

334

385

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Joseph C. Durhan, Past Master
James E. White, Past Master
Geo. E. Kimball, Past Master
Palos Verdes ..................... No. 389 .... William E. Albers, Master .................. 38.20
Thomas R. Lewis, Sr. Warden
Ernest E. Archer, Past Master
lmperial... ........................... No. 390.... Milton B. Griffin, Sr. Warden .......... 52.50
East Belt............................ No. 391.. .. Inslee P. Rude, Master........................ 7.30
West Lake......................... No. 392.... B. F. Bolling, Master .......................... 38.20
C. E . Hopkins, Sr. Warden .
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master .............. 38.20
Walter Louis Berger, Past Master .. 38.20
Wm. Theodore Osterholt, Past
Master ................................................ 38.20
Chas. E. Listenwalter, Past Master 38.20

Burbank ............................. No. 406 .... Wesley P. Short, Sr. Warden .......... 37.70
Thomas J. Henry, Past Master
La Mesa............................. No. 407 .... W. A. Todd, Master.. .......................... 46.60
Sierra Madre .................:... No. 408 .... R. D. Andrews, Master.. .................... 39.10
Honolulu ............................ No. 409 .... W. R. Dunham, Representative,....... 250.00
Charter Rock ..................... No. 410 .... Sanborn H. Smith, Sr. Warden
W. R. Matthews, Jr. Warden
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
R. Robert Braden, Past Master
Matthew Morton, Jr., Past Master
F. H. Elliott, Past Master
James K. Fisk, Grand Marshal
Perris .................................. No. 411.. .. Norman Hager, Sr. Warden .............. 43.30
Harry Hagen, Past Master
Calexico.............................. N o. 412 .... Morris Alexander Fitzpatrick,
Sr. Warden ........................................ 56.30
John Herbert McCoy, Jr. Warden
Waucdba ............................ No. 413 .... Bruce L. Coulter, Sr. Warden .......... 42.90
Wm. L. Davis, Inspector .................... 31.50
Arlin~ton ........................... No. 414 .... Holger Gulbransen, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 38.20
Carl F. Peters, Inspector .................... 38.20
Silver Trowel... ................. No. 415 .... Clyde W. Shuey, Sr. Warden ............ 38.20
Fred J. Martin, Past Master
F. Sydney Brennan, Past Master
Lindsay...................- ......... No. 416 .... George E. Trull, Sr. Warden ............ 21.40
.
Edward F. Gould, Inspector.. ............ 21.40
Clovis ............., .........:.......... No. 417 .... Terrill 0. Glenn, Sr. Warden ............ 17.60
Elysian .................- ............ No. 418 ....Jos. A. Forest, Master ........................ 38.20
H. A. Miller, Sr. Warden
Elbert D. Owen, Jr. Warden
·Robert F. Callender, Past Master
Upland ................................ No. 419 .... Allan S. Barr, Sr. Warden .................. 41.00
Abe Kisner, Jr. Warden
W. R. Farmer, Inspector.................... 41.00
Kerman .............................. No. 420 .... Thomas Keyes, Representative .......... 12.10
Inglewood .......................... No. 421.. ..'f. Chauncey Oestrich, Master .......... 38.20
Robert 0. Youmans, Sr. Warden
Frank R. Walter, Past Master
Robert K. McGuire, Inspector .......... 38.20
Eagle Rock ........................ No. 422 .... Wm. Edw. Keogh, Jr. Warden ........ 38.20
·
Winston E. Squire, Past Master ...... 39.10
York .................................... No. 4Z3 .... R. W. Slaught, Master ........................ 38.20
W. J. Schramm, Sr. Warden
Exeter................................. No. 424.... James W. Cary, Master.. .................... 21.00
Norbert W. Mixter, Sr. Warden
Frank W. Mixter, Past Grand Master ........................................................ 21.00
Holtville ............................ No. 425 .... Milton G. Meek, Sr. Warden ............ 52.90
Midway.............................. No. 426 .... Guy English Basham, Master ............ 25.90
Theodore Rowtliffe, Inspector .......... 29.10

386

Balder............ - ................... No. 393 .... LeRoy W. Johnson, MasterW d
Harry G. R. Peterson, Sr.
ar en
Fred A. Schuler, Jr. Warden
Victor Peterson, Past Master
Clarence D. Lindstrom, Past Master·
Ellls Ellesin, Past Master
B. R. Petersen, Past Master
N. S. Stohl, Past Master
University...................:...... No. 394 .... William T. Lisenby, Jr., Master ........ 38.20
Ralph H. Alexander, Sr. Warden
Frederick W. Morris, Grand Sword
Bearer ................................................ 38.20
Turlock .............................. No. 395 .... Webb H. Tribble, Sr. Warden ... ,......
Harry 0. Carlson, Inspector..............

7.70
7.70

Apollo ................................. No. 396 .... Harry Turner, Master
Carl Emil Thau, Sr. Warden
Rising Light ...................... No. 397 .... G. C. Strandberg, Master..~ ................. 38.20
G. E. Mullinix, Sr. Warden
Leslie V. Hugh es, Grand Pursuivant 38.20
Fraternity.......................... No. 399 .... Russell Lewis \Vest, Master •
James Harold Babb, Sr. Warden
William P. Johnson, Jr. Warden
Burlingame ........................N o. 400 .... Robert H. Schmidt, Master
·
W. E. Provence, Sr. Warden
William Peet, Jr. Warden
Samuel Leslie Hawken, Inspector
Bay View ........................... No. 401.. .. Lloyd A. Hasha, Master
Norman H. Street, Sr. Warden
Arthur H. Triggs, Jr. Warden
H. M. Bankhead, Past Master
Brawley......................... ~ .... No. 402 .... Chas. H. Youngstrom, Sr. Warden .. 54.90
Yerba Buena.................... No. 403 ....J. Reginald McCloskey, Master
George T. Walker, Sr. Warden
Russell T. Palmer, Jr. Warden
Glendora .................. - ....._... No. 404 .... S. D. McCauslin, Sr. Warden ............ 37.10
Edwin Chambers, Past Master
Moneta................................No. 405 ... .Lee D. Mathews, Sr. Warden ............ 38.20
Louis L. Cunningham, Jr. Warden

387

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chino Valley..............•...... No. 427.... Harold D. Race, Master ...................... 40.60
San Dimas ......................... No. 428 .... William John Gillette, Sr. Warden .. 40.20
Arthur Edward Tangeman, Inspector ........................:............................... 36.30
John G. Soder, Past Master
Pittsburg.....- .....................No. 429 .... George W . Burris, Master.................. 3.30
Emil C. Gundershaug, Jr. Warden
McCloud .............................No. 430 .... Reginald DeWitt Wetzel, Sr. Warden ...................................................... 22.10
Charles Sidney Hogan, Inspector .... 22.10
Alpha...................... ~ ........... No. 431.. .. Anshelm S. Remell, Master
Douglas John Bacon, Sr. Warden
Lee Gerald McCoy, Jr. Warden
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master
Martin Wiltz, Past Master
Wm. P. Self, Past Master
H. E. Hammond, Past Master
Carl F. La Vo, Past ·Master
Hammonton ......................No. 433 ... .]ames Robert McFarlane, Master.:., 8.30
Maricopa ............................No. 434 ....Hobart Starbuck, Sr. Warden .......... 25.90
Fairmount ......................... No. 435 .... Leonard W . Harless, Sr. Warden
Francis N. Winiger, Past Master
E. Elmore Hutchison, Past Master
Claremont .......................... No. 436 ....John Asa Essex, ..Sr. Warden ............ 40.70
Lancaster.•.........................No. 437 ....James C, Brandenburg, Sr. Warden 30.70
Acacia ................................. No. 438 ....Hugo J. Evers, Master ........................ 38.20
William Osterloh, Sr. Warden
Tyrian ................................ No. 439 .... John Thomas Smith, Jr. Warden.... 5.70
Standard .............................N o. 440.... Edmond B. Hebert, Master
Daniel Gray Reid, Sr. Warden
De Mille M. Campbell, Past Master
Clifford J. Sorel, Past Master
Frederick J. Degen , Past Master
William F. Wood, Past Master
Coronado ........................... No. 441.. .. Glen C. Holbert, Sr. Warden ............ 46.60
Harry S. Clark, Inspector .................. 46.60
Blackmer............................No. 422 .... Clarence F. Terry, Master ................ 46.60
Edward W. Welk, Jr. Warden
Warren Libby, Past Master.............. 38.20
Orno E. Tyler, Past Master
Schofield ............................ No. 443 .... Alexander D. Potts, Representative
Carpinteria.:...................... No. 444 .... Charles Curtis, Representative .......... 32.10
Wilshire............................. No. 445 .... Gerald W. Page, Master ...................... 38.20
Herbert A. Huebner, Jr. Warden
Thomas A. Dille, Inspector ................ 38.20
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master ........ 38.20
Frederic E. Clark, Past Master
Harry E. Lindersmith, Sr. Grand
Deacon ................................................ 38.20
Walter W. Chegwidden, Sr. Grand
Deacon
Will H . Fischer, Past Grand Master ........................................................ 38.20

La Puente .......................... No. 446 .... Edward B. Main, Jr. Warden ...:········ 39.60
Torrance ............................ No. 447 .... William H. Bremner, Sr. Warden .... 38.20
Mt. Diablo ......................... No. 448 .... (No attendance)
Park. ................................... No. 449 .... J ohn Ferguson, Inspector
Robert K. Huppert, Past Master
George w: Gisin, Past Master
Van Nuys ...........................No. 450 .... William B. Allington, Master............ 38.20
Glenn Monroe Hershner, Sr. Warden
Harold S. Morrison, Inspector .......... 38.20
Montebello........................ No. 451....C. W. Higgins, Master ........................ 38.20
V. E . Row, Jr. Warden
San PasquaL .................... No. 452 .... Hal E. Rowley, Master ........................ 39.10
·
Ralph B. Thomas, Sr. Warden
Bethlehem ........................_No. 453.... Frederick H. Murdock, Master
Carl M. Taylor, Sr. Warden
John Clayton Painter, Past Master
George Vernonce Rulofson, Past
Master
Vincent Paul McMurdo, Past Master
Crocker.....,......................... No. 454 .... Arthur F. Wickersham, Master
Edward Ernest Smith, Sr. Warden
Mattrup Jay Jensen, Jr. Warden
George C. Chamberlain, Past Master
Walter Clarence Schenk, Past Master
Golden West ..................... No. 455 .... Earle B. Brehaut, Master
John Wm. Mitchell, Sr. Warden
Reginald Alexander Farquhar,
Jr. Warden
Peter L. Jackson, Past Master
Ramona .............................. No. 457.... C. W . Byerla, Master .......................... 38.20
Henry S. Orme ................. No. 458 .... William B. Mott, Master .................... 38.20
Robert F . Shippee, Sr. Warden
Frederick C. Warner, Inspector ........ 38.20
Riverbank .......................... No. 459 ....John Roscoe, Past Master and Rep. 7.30
Mount Oso........................ No. 460 .... Robert _Longwill, Sr. Warden.......... 4.70
Argonaut ............................No. 461.. .. Sidney A. Romer, Master
Arthur H. Schroeder, Sr. Warden
Joseph Steinmetz, Past Master
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
J, Denison McCue, Past Master
Ferdinand Mosebach, Past Master .
Walter Flowers, Past Master
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
Harry P. Rothermel, Past Master
Charles A. Rice, Past Master
Paul Revere ....................... N o. 462 .... R~lph W. Dunshee, Master
Chas. Thorpe, Sr. Warden
Howard Douglas King, Jr. Warden
William Arthur Gerder, Past Master
Jacob Wm. Warshaw, Past Master
John Campbell Oslin, Past Master
Charles Thorpe, Past Master

388

389

391

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Joel Harold Springer, Past Master
Oscar W. Sandstrom, Past Master
Harry A. Fouch, Past Master
John Cox, Past Master
Morgan Hill...................... No. 463 .... Harold Philbrick, Past · Master and
Representative .................................. 4.50
Alta Vista.......................... No. 464.... William J . Angenent, Master
Pearce Glasson, Sr. Warden
Paul F. Scammon, Jr. Warden
Frands J. Herz, Past Master
Harry L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Center................................. No. 465 .... Edward L. Chapin, Sr. Warden........ 17.60
George F. Metcalf, Jr. Warden
'
Samuel E. Dollar, Inspedor.............. 17.60
Libertas .............................. No. 466 .... Fred L. Hayes, Master........................ 25.90
Clyde B. Zuver, Sr. Warden
Walter J. Armstrong, Jr. Warden
Raymond Taylor, Past Master........ 25:90
Culver City........................ No. 467 .... Francis T. Reeves, Master,..............~ 38.20
Claude Thomason, Sr. Warden
Truman Van Dyke, Inspector.......... 38.20
Daniel Coombs, Past Master
Rockridge .......................... No. 468.... Morris E. Bruner, Sr. Warden
Milton T. Farmer, Past Master
Yorba Linda ......................No. 469.... Ralph M. Thurman, Master.............. 38.20
Walter J. Breen, Past Master
Lincoln............................... No. 470.... Alexander McBirney, Sr. Warden
Arthur M. Joel, Inspector
Leslie Garren, Past Master
Delta................................... No. 471....Raymortd I. Miller, Sr. Warden...... 5.60
Maui................................. No. 472....William Wallace Carter, Rep.
Blythe................................. No. 473.... (No attendance)
Victory ...:...........,............... No. 474.... F. Jack Marsicano, Master
Ernest Schumacher, Sr. Warden
Lionel R. Millzner, Jr. Warden
Otto Von Raven, Past Master
America............................. No. 475 .... David L . Church, Master.................... 38.20
Aubrey Patterson, Sr. Warden
Henry A. Save, Jr. Warden
Coachella........................... No. 476.... Gordon L. Christiansen, Jr. Warden 47.20
Temblor............................. No. 477 ....WiHiam Berry, Jr., Sr. Warden........ 25.90
Thousand Oaks................ No. 478.... Ferd A. Schlafke, Master
Clifford L. Ziegler, Jr. Warden
Kenneth Evans, Past Master
R. P. Wisecarver, Past Master
Golden Rule ...................... No. 479.... Fritz Hans Olsen, Sr. Warden.......... 3.20
John W. Poisa_l, Jr. Warden
Fellowship ......................... No. 480.... Lionel H. L. Watkins, Master
Mt. Davidson .................... No. 481.. .. Alfred R. Tuckey, Master
Angus Stewart Holden, Sr. Warden
Arthur Melvin Warren, Assistant
Grand Lecturer

Clarence F. Smith ............ No. 482.... Herman P. Clay, Master.................... 38.20
Raymond G. Vogel, Sr. Warden
Bell...................................... No. 483 .... Chris 0. Sorensen, Master................ 38.20
Wilber 0. Fawley, Sr. Warden
William L. Kyle, Jr. Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Past ¥aster
Albert Pike....................... No. 484....W. F. Dedrick, Sr. Warden.............. 38.20
Chowchilla........................ No. 485 .... Wallace M. Carver, Master..'.............. 10.50
Anatoli John Maioroff, Sr. Warden
Caledonia ........................... No. 486....John Jos. Oliphant, Master................ 25.90
Thomas Wm. Magee, Sr. Warden
Vallejo................................ No. 487.... William H. McDonough, Master...... 2.20
Alvin N. Hulse, Sr. Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, Inspector.......... 2.20
John Spires, Past Master
Patterson ........................... No. 488....James C. Ramsaur, Jr. Warden........ 6.50
East Bay............................ No. 489.... Charles L. Fread, Master
Roy H. Parkinson, Past Master
Corcoran ................. :.......... No. 490 ....James C. Condon, Sr. Warden........ 20.70
L. S. Randolph, Past Master
Woodstock........................ No. 491.. ..Claude Andrew Davis, Master
Alvin Arthur Horwege, Sr. Warden
R. E. O'Brien, Jr. Warden
Frederick B. McAtee, Past. Master
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master
Clarence E. Maddox, Past Master
Garvanza........................... No. 492.... Melville Herbert Howard, Master.. 38.20
Fred L. Norton, Sr. Warden
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
Julius G. Hansen, Past Master
Atascadero........................ No. 493 .... Azor Frederick Kunkee, Sr. Warden 19.60
Fred Charles Hess, Past Master
Edwin D. Jarvis, Past Master
Charles W. Starkey, Past Master
Robert E. Austin, Past Master
Acorn ........:........................ No. 494....Lloyd N. Temby, Sr. Warden
C. M. Joseph, Jr. Warden
Samuel F . Worswick, Past Master
Clarence M. Lake, Past Master
Lebanon...............•............. No. 495 .... Leo Homer Stein, Master
Sol Schonwetter, Jr. Warden
.
Morris Rosenberg, Past Master
Riverdale ........................... No. 496.... (No attendance)
Fremont............................. N o. 497 ....Ernest H. Stange, Master
Cecil E. Duvall, Sr. Warden
R. J. Richardson, Jr. Warden
Chester C. Morris, Inspector
Homer Buck, Past Master
Cyrus L. Rossi, Past Master
Fred F. Morse, Past Master
Stockton............................. No. 498 .... Willia~ Edward Clark, Sr. Warden 5.60
Robert F. Kingston, Jr. Warden

390

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Capital City...........:.::........No. 499 .... Moritz Ludlow Abbott, Sr. Warden
Aubrey Leon Ward, Jr. Warden·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5.90

Roosevelt.. ......................... No. 500....Joseph Scannell, Past Master
\Vestwood ......................... No. 501.... Louis C. Dettmar, Master.................. 24.60
Harbor............................... No. 502....John Moore, Master
Point................................... No. 503.... Wilbert H. Woolslayer, Master
Gust James Allyn, Sr. Warden
Cyrus M. Nelson, Past Master
Seaside................................ No. 504.... Frederick George Berbowet, Master 38.20
Wm. R. Brown, Sr. Warden
W. J. Courtiour, Inspector................ 38.20
Wm. T. Corbusier, Past Master
Silver Cord ........................ No. 505 .... Coker F. Rathbone, Master................ 40.10
John J. Vernon, Sr. Warden
Mount Olive...................... No. 506 .... H. A. Harkness, Master...................... 38.20
James H. Bailey, Sr. Warden
Alvin W. Wendt, Past Master....... :.. 38.20
El Segundo........................ No. 507 .... Patrick N. McCulloch, Sr. Warden .. 38.20
Joppa.................................. No. 508.... Eugene W. Nelson, Master ................ 17.60
Benjamin Franklin .......... No. 509.... P. B. Henry, Sr. Warden .................... 38.20
Edmond F. Johnson, Jr. Warden
Cupertino........................... No. 510....J. Fred Danielson, Master.................. 3.20
R. I. Meyerholz, Jr. Warden
Sunnyvale.......................... No. 511....James M. Moon, Sr. Warden............ 2.60
Palms ................................. No. 512.... Arthur E. Williams, Master.............. 38.20
~
Eugene C. Prehoda, Sr. Warden
Cahuenga........................... No. 513 .... Earl Wm. Neal, Master...................... 38.20
Frederick W. Chappell, Sr. Warden
Roy C. Bryan, Inspector. ................... 38.20
Argonne............................. No. 514.... Frederick E. Wilhelm, Sr. Warden
Edwin A. Gumbinger, Past Master
.
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
Vermont Square ............... No. 515 .... Wade H. Davis, Master...................... 38.20
Jasper J. Leake, Sr. Warden
Taft..................................... N o. 516.... Earl Philip Baker, Master.................. 25.90
Carl Lee Boon, Sr. Warden
Harvey G. Thomas, Past Master
Harry W. Beatty, Past Master
Mt. Vernon........................ No. 517.... Lawrence S. Cronander, Master
Wm. C. Johnson, Jr. Warden
Harold. W. Chaunce, Past Master
Richard F . Fletcher, Past Master
Alva V. Sligar, Past Master
Chester J . Capps, Past Master
La Jolla .............................. No. 518.:.. Francis John Garty, Master.............. 46.60
Austin A. Looke, Sr. Warden
Euclid ................................. No. 519....John X. Turk, Sr. Warden ................ 38.20
Ionic .................................... No. 520 .... David Berniker, Master...................... 38.20
'Bernard Lebe, Sr. Warden

·393

Piedmont............................No. 521.... Eugene T . Marsh, Master
R. A. Macdonald, Sr. Warden
Lawrence Bolenbaugh, Inspector
Sunrise...........................~ ... No. 522....John G. Brooks, Sr. Warden............ 38.20
Walter E. TIO>ole, Past Master
Bellflower.......................... No. 523 .... Charles B. Paul, Sr. Warden............ 39.50
Catalina Island................. No. 524.... Edwin W. Smith, Master.................... 45.20
Herbert A. Wegman, Past Master
George Wa~hington ........ No.-525 .... Leslie Logan, Sr. Warden
John Johnston, Past Master
Bay City............................. No. 526.... Harry Thor, Master
Covenant............................ N~. 527.... Floyd John Lender, Master................ 38.20
W. L. Mayes, Sr. Warden
Beverly Hills ...... ~---···········No. 528.... Walter E. Egerman, Master.............. 38.20
Frederick A. Fox, Sr. Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr., Inspector.......... 38.20
Loyalty............................... No. 529.... Louis E. Wass, Master...................•.... 38.20
Harry Segal, Sr. Warden
.
Sun Garden ........................ No. 530.... Glenn E. Ryan, Sr. Warden .............. 1.7.60
Herbert R. Hargrave, Inspector...... 17.60
A!exandria......................... No. 531.. ..Wil!iam C. Andersen, Master
Frank F. Goodman, Past Master
Edmund S. Davidson, Past Master
Smyrna...............................N o. 532.... Sverr.e Marini us Christensen,
Sr. Warden ······························-~---····· 7.20
Azure .................................. No. 533 .... Chas. ·F. Cornelius, Sr. Warden........ 39.80
Forest Hill......................... No. 534.... Anthony C. Tomen, Sr. Warden
Oliver A. Haberdier, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton....... No. 535 .... Sam Beaumont, Sr. Warden .............. 38.20
Seal Rock. .......................... No. 536.... Edward R. Nienstadt, Sr. Warden
John K. Wright, Past Master
Utopia................................ No. 537 .... 0scar Emil Clauder, Sr. Warden .... 38.20
Ascot.................................. No. 538 .... Chester W. Murphy, ·Master.............. 38.20
Belvedere........................... No. 539.... Dee Needham, Master.......................... 38.20
Fred Hogben, Sr. Warden
Queea Beach..................... No. 540.... Char!es Elmer List, Master.............. 38.20
Henry Morse Stephens...No. 541.. .. Haro!d Schulze, Master
Harvard S. Hicks, Sr. Warden
Boyd Rakestraw, Jr. ·warden
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
Wilson E . Newlon, Past Master
Merle Randall, Past Master
A. Lewis Koue, Past Master
Lankershim....................... No. 542.... Clarence A. Ross, Sr. Warden .......... 38.20
Signal... ............................... No. 543 .... Frederick V. Wright, Masterc.. ......... 38.20
Myron E. Roudebush, Sr. Warden
Glendale............................. No. 544.... Clarence F. Lipe, Sr. Warden .......... 37.80
Jonathan .................:........... No. 545 .... D. C. Whisler, Master
John A. Carlson, Sr. Warden
San GabrieL...................... No. 546.... H. B. Summerford, Sr. Warden ........ 38.90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Arcadia ...........................•... No. 547.... Raymond H. Rishworth, Master...... 39.30
Wayne F. Upson, Sr. Warden
Victor H. Gunderson, Past Master
Wood Glover, Past Master
Triangle..............,.............. No. 5"18.... William L. Wallis, Master.................. 38.20
Robert W. Davis, Sr. Warden
Justice................................ No. 549.... Percy Vane Maury, Master
Walter Clyde Sundberg, Sr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
W. W. Barry, Past Master
George D. Horn, Past Master
Seaport............................... No. 550.... Wallace L. Coleman, Master
Walter H. C. Von Konsky, Inspector
Otto A. Holtzen, Past Master
John Alpers, Past Master
Lakeshore.......................... No. 551.... Lloyd W. Hanson, Master
Lee Burnett Ferguson, Jr. Warden
Howard S. Gerrish, Past Master
Semper Virens .................. No. 552....Alexander Duncan, Jr. Warden...:.... 24.70
Educator............................ No. 554.... Theodore M. Noble, Master
Donald B. Ryan, Sr. Warden
William M. Luther, Jr. Warden
Ralph M. Small, Inspector
White Pine........................ No. 555 .... (No attendance)
Fairfax................................No. 556 ....William M. Hoenes, Master
Hermosa............................ No. 557.... D. U. Wheaton, Sr. Warden.............. 38.20
Point Firmin .....:............... No. 558....John R. Wyckoff, Master.................... 38.20
Walter W. Foster, Sr. Warden
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master
Craftsman.......................... No. 559.... George Edgecombe, Sr. Warden.... ~. 38.20
Plymouth ......................:.... No. 560.... Edward H. Siems, Past Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
East San Diego........: ........ No. 561.. .. Earl W. Hawkins, Sr. Warden.......... 46.60
Pyramid............................. No. 562.... Murray W. Dore, Master
James M. Reed, Sr. Warden
Germain W. Miller, Jr. Warden
South Park. ........................No.563 .... Sidney Frederick Hill, Master............ 38.20
Lawrence B. Black, Sr. Warden
Hugh E. Moor, Past Master
Jacob M. Geopfert, Past Master
Foothill...............................No. 564 .... Carl B. Munck, Mast~r
Wilbur Clarence Taylor, Sr. Warden
Benjamin L. Mi!Jer, Past Master
West Adams ......................No. 565 .... R. D. Jacobs; Jr. Warden .................. 38.20
James A. Garfield ............. No. 566.... H. B. Green, Master............................ 38.20
W. Bertrand Stevens, Grand Chaplain ...................................................... 38.20
Searchlight.........................N o. 567.... Robert F. Dawes, Master.................... 38.20
Arthur Jos. Barton, Sr. Warden
Park Boulevard................ No. 568.... Lloyd M. Bradford, Master
Don E. Berry, Jr. Warden

Kenneth A. Prettyman, Past Master
]. E. Hammond, Past Master
Chateau Thierry.............. No. 569.... Walter J . Breen, Past Master
Robert M. Miller, Past Master
Military Service ................ No. 570.... Robert James Martin, Master
Geo. V. Curtis, Past Master
Fred L. Somers, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck........ No. 571.. ..Joseph A. Pivernetz, Master
E. W . Davis, Inspector
James Madison................. No. 572.... Edgar James Cu~bey, Master.......... 38.20
Hillcrest............................. No. 573 .... Arthur E. Herndon, Master
Everett R. Ludden, Jr. Warden
S. W. Hackett................... No. 574.... Nathan Barkdul Vickers, Past Master and Representative .................... _46.60
Fort Crook.........................No. 575.... Stuart Dodds Samson, Sr. Warden.. 20.20
Otto Stewart, Past Master
El Cajon Valley.....,........ No. 576.... William C. Koppel, Master................ 46.60
Sunnyside...........................No. 577.... Robert C. Wilson, Master.................: 38.20
Louis Henry Mahler, Sr. Warden
F. Wesley Davies, Past Master........ 39.30
Percy L. Bruner, Sr., Past Master
Progressive........................ No. 578.... Roy 0. Miller, Sr. Warden................ 38.20
Perry R. Borden, Past Master
Warren G. Harding......... No. 579 .... Peter J. Kramer, Master.................... 5.90
Santa Maria....................... No. 580.... Louis Henry Baldwin, Past Master
and Sr. Warden ................................ 50.70
Security.............................. No. 581.. ..Harry Greenstreet, Representative.. 25.90
Newton E. Holland, Past Master
Rialto .................................. No. 582.... (No attendance)
Wasco................................. No. 583 .... Lester R. Smith, Sr. Warden ............ 24.40
Harding..............................No. 584.. ~.Louis E. Sage, Past Master and Rep. 38.20
Manchester........................ No. 585 ....John D. Shahan, Master...................... 38.20
Henry Brans, Sr. Warden
Linden L. Cummins, Past Master
Garden Grove ....................No. 586.... Lawrence L. Trickey, Rep ................. 40.10
Valley Forge..................... No. 587.... Frank B. Magee, Master.................... 38.20
0. G. Carlson, Sr. Warden
El Sereno........................... No. 588....J. K. Northroup, Sr. Warden............ 38.20
Wm. 0 . Phegley, Jr. Warden
Kauai... ............................... No. 589.... Earl Warren, Past Grand Master
and Representative
Compass............................. No. 590.... Charles .S. Imhoff, Master.................. 39.60
Lyman C. Guise, Sr. Warden
·
Escalon ............................... No. 591.... Leslie Anderson Johnson, Master.... 6.90
Eldrid Strand, Jr. Warden
Tujunga ..............................No. 592.... Irving E. Heckman, Sr. Warden...... 38.20
All States............................No. 593 .... Raymond A. Bean, Master.................. 38.20
Ashley]. V.ollmar, Sr. Warden
Service................................ No. 594.... Benjamin E. Williams, Master.......... 38.20
Clarence John Creasey, Sr. Warden

394

395

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Alexander Graham BelLNo. 595 .... Melvin E. Tompkins, Sr. Warden .... 38.20
Guardian ............................. No. 596.... Lee Schexschnider, Master ................ 38.20
Pearl Harbor....·-·-···········No. 598 .... Alexander D. Potts, Representative
Carmelita ........................... No. 599 .... Merle F. Simmons, Master ................ 39.10
John S. Davidson, Sr. Warden
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master
J. Tyler Parker, Inspector .................. 39.10
Lynwood ............................ No. 600 .... Wayne M. Hague, Master .................. 38.20
Grizzly.................. - ............ No. 60L .. Louis J. DeArmond, Master .............. 23.50
Emil Q. Miland, Sr. Warden
· Walter H. Young, Jr. Warden
Harry S. Date, Past Master
Metrose ............................... No. 602 .... George H. Leonard, Master .............. 38.20
Jack Dortignac, Sr. Warden
J. L. Goode, Inspector........................ 38.20
Dimond......... :.................... No. 603 .... William H. Little, Master
Oliver E. Nelson, Sr. Warden
James J. Torrison, Past Master
Jubilee ......................:.......... No. 604 ....Joseph Hamblet, Sr. Warden ............ 40.20
Glassell Park..................... No. 605.,.. Francis B. Saffell, Master .................. 38.20
John P. McLean, Past Master
Sojourner .....•..................... No. 607 .... Donald C. Slater, Sr. Warden ............ 39.50
Granada .............................. No. 608 .... E. A. Tompkins, Master .............~ ........ 38.80
Earl G. Read, Sr. Warden
Provident........................... N o. 609 .... Isaiah L. Driver, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 5.90
Leslie Earl Wood, Deputy Grand
Master ................................................ 5.90
Elmhurst.. .......................... No. 610 .... Conrad Knippenberg, Master
Canoga ........- ..................... No. 611-. .. H. J. Jackman, Sr. Warden .............. 36.30
Temple City....................:.No. 612 .... Chas. R. Platt, Sr. Warden ................ 39.20
Three Pillars ................... :.No. 613 .... Samuel Van Lovell, Master................ 5.90
Lynwood F. Pratt, Sr. Warden
Miles J. McClelland, Inspector........ 5.90
Larchmont........... _ ........;.. No. 614.... Hardie LeRoy Potter, Master....:..... 38.20
Newcomb Condee, Sr. Warden
Hemet................................. No. 615 .... J. Zeff Harris, Sr. Warden ................ 44.70
S. Bruce Avon, Past Master
R. E. Dolley...................... No. 616 .... Fr<J.nk Wm. Upham, Master .............. 38~20
Big Bear .....•....................... No. 617 .... Frank A. Day, Master........................ 42.10
·
S. Jay Sarkis, Past Master
Southland ........................... No. 618 ....John W. Street, Master ...................... 38.20
Willia·m Lawrence Hovis, Inspector 38.20
Neptune ..............................No. 619 .... William K. Brown, '.Master................ 38.20
PointLoma ....................... No. 620 .... Henry M. Reynolds, Master.............. 46.60
H. K. Rankin, Sr. Warden
The Gardens ...................... No. 621.. .. W. M. Washburn, Sr. Warden ........ 38.20
Atwater ..............•....•.....•.... No. 622 .... Seth J. Johnson, Master.............. - ...... 38.20
Lawrence L. Rosenthal, Jr. Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

397

Menorah ............................. No. 623 .... A. R. Giffard, Master .......................... 38.20
Allyn S. Abramson, Jr. Warden
Fortitude............................ No. 624 .... George Edw. Haruff, Master
Claude Ellis Salmon, Sr. Warden
Walter Jos. Dahm, Jr. Warden
Alfred L. Costa, Past Master
Angeles Mesa .................... No. 625 .... Harry Lyle Elliott, Master ................ 38.20
William L. Yoakam, Sr. Warden
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
John J. Humble, Past Master
Willard L. Sears, Past Master
Chula Vista ........................ No. 626 .... Walter L. Henderson, Past Master
and Representative ... :...................... 46.60
Lamanda Park .................. No. 627 ..'..John B. Andrus, Sr. Warden ............ 39.10
Wm. Pompey, Jr. Warden
Truth .................................. No. 628 .... R. Wayne Brosius, Sr. Warden ........ 38.20
Fairview ......L ........ ;., ...~...Jlfo. 629 .... Benj. L. Irwin, Master........................ 38.20
Walter C. Roberts, Sr. Warden
W. Claude Hudnall, Past Master
Ingleside ............................ No. 630 .... Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary
Adam H. Krage!, Past Master
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Henry C. Clausen, Past Master
Benevolcnce ...................... No. 631 .... William M. Page, Master~ ................... 38.20
Arthur R. Shields, Sr. Warden
Normal Heights .... .'.......... No. 632 .... George H. Overleese, Sr. Warden .. 46.60
Poinsettia ........................... No. 633 .... Edwin Lee Gardner, Master .............. 33.20
Wayne A. Simpson, Sr. Warden
Edgar L. Jaspar, Jr. Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Master........ 33.20
Victor~ille .......................... No. 634 .... Maxwell J. Harkness, Master... ,........ 42.lQ.
Riverside ............................ No. 635 .... Fred Lee McEuen, Master ................ 42.10
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
John Marshall ................... No. 636 .... Raymond J. King, Master .................. 38.20
Palisades ............................ No. 637 .... Jay Seymour Walton, Master .......... 38.20
·
Kenneth H. Andrews, Jr. Warden
Charles H. Foye, Jr., Inspector........ 38.20
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
Indian Rock ...................... No. 638 .... Melville Herbert Radke, Master
Howard Caswell Miller, Sr. Warden
Raymond Harsch, Past Master
Composite .......................... No. 639 .... Arthur V. Joel, Sr. Warden... ~ .......... 38.20
Veritas ................................ No. 640 .... Albert Arthur Hewitt, Sr. ·warden .
W. I. Kohnke, Inspector
Charles R. O'Donnell, Past Master
Winfield Attenborough, Past Master
James A. Foshay .............. No. 641....Alfred L. 'Chaudet, Sr. Warden ........ 38.20
La Cumbre ........................ No. 642 .... Merrell Joel Ferree, Sr. Warden ...... 30.20
Edward Allison McMillan, Jr. Warden

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

398

Alta Loma ......................... No. 643 .... Homer Chas. Mills, Master ................ 38.20
Lomita...............·-······•·······No. 644.... John .L. Sanders, Jr. Warden ............ 38.20
A. F. E. Irwin ................... No. 645 .... Alfred C. Clark, Master...................... 38.20
Barney F. Lindsay, Sr. Warden
Metropolitan ..................... N o. 646 .... Daniel Tudor, Master __________________________ 38.20
Hawthorne ........................ No. 647 .... Monty Moore, Jr. Warden ................ 38.20
Frank W. Hawkins, Past Master
Damascus .......................... No. 648 .... L. H. Seaback, Master ........................ 42.10
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master
Florence ............................. No. 649 .... Adam H. Mand, Representative ........ 38.20
Ernest P. Koeckritz, Past Master
Frank Hoyt Beeson, .Past Master
La Brea .................. _. ..... No. 650.... Walter E. Robertson, Master.. .......... 38.20
Frank F. Merrill, Sr. Warden
John W. Swank, Past Master
Menlo Park ....................... No. 651.. .. Chester B. Buckhout, Master............ 2.00
Harold R. Dell, Sr. Warden
0. A. Leydecker, Jr. Warden
Crescenta Valley.............. No. 652 .... Alfred D. Newsom, Sr. Warden ____ ,_ 38.20
Fontana.............................. No. 653 .... Walter M. Chase, Sr. Warden .......... 41.80
George F. Calkins, Jr. Warden
.
Richard E. Jacques, Past Master
Jordan ........................... ~ ..... No. 654 .... R. H. Ovendale, Master ...................... 38.20
Earl E. Dotson, Sr. Warden
Leonard Gross, Inspector.. ................ 38.20
Monte Vista...................... No. 655 .... Thomas I. Lingo, Master .................... 38.20
CitroL................................ No. 656.... Emil Charles Carlson, Master............ 39.60
John D. Spreckels ............ No. 657 .... Lowry J. Benbrook, Sr. Warden ...... 46.60
John T. Martin, Past Master ............ 46.60
Livingston ......................... N o. 658 .... Clarence Jos. Carpenter, Master........ 8.40
La Habra .......,................... No. 659 .... Ewell Columbus Counts, Master ...... 36.80 ·
Jack A. Templeton, Sr. Warden
Baldwin Park. ................... No. 660 .... H. E. Williams, Representative ........ 39.70
Malta .........:....................•.... No. 661.. .. Wilson D. Widney, Master ................ 38.20
Earl V. Mater, Sr. Warden
Henry Knox ...................... No. 662 .... Tracey S. Cox, Master ........................ 38.20
John H. Hargreaves, Sr. Warden
Ojai... ............................•..... No. 663.: ..Jay Otis Burnett, Master .................... 33.20
Kaweah .....................;........ No. 665 .... Francis J. White, Sr. Warden ....... ~-- 20.50
Roscoe E. Wood, Past Master
Reseda ................................ No. 666 .... Paul Weil, Sr. Warden ........................ 38.20
Meridian ............................. No. 667 .... John W. Catt, Sr. Warden ................ 37.80
John R. Moore, Inspector .................. 38.20
S. A. McDonald, Past Master
San Gorgonio .................... No. 668 .... John Phillips, Master .......................... 44.10
John P. Jarman.:............... No. 669 .... Guy M. Bemiss, Master...................... 3.20
E. Wesley Johnson, Sr. Warden
Nels H. Johnson, Inspector................ 3.20
M. H. Kent, Past Master
GreenleaL.......................... No. 670.~ .. Warren R. Fitch, Master .................... 39.20
Raymond A. Kridler, Sr. Warden
San Clemente ................... No. 671.. .. H. J. Harkleroad, Jr.; Sr. Warden .. 42.40
Laguna Beach ................... No. 672 .... Harlan A. Burand, Sr. Warden ........ 38.20
4 •••

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

399

Far West.: .......................... No. 673 .... Theodore G. Ewing, Master
Charles Wm. Qualman, Sr. Warden
Chris J. Christensen, Inspector
Raymond J. Rock, Past Master
Los Cerritos ...................... No. 674 .... Francis H. Gentry, Master ................ 38.20
Modesto............................. No. 675 .... Merrill H. Beidelman, Sr. Warden.. 6.80
Willow Glen...................... No. 676 .... Arthur J. Eldridge, Sr. Warden........ 3.20
Liberal Arts ...................... No. 677 .... H. E. Breitenbach, Sr. Warden ........ 38.20
G. E. Meyer, Inspector ........................ 38.20
William A. Sherwin, Past Master .... 38.20
Reynold E. Blight, Past Master ........ 38.20
Altadena ............................. No. 678 .... Byron Willis Weekes, Master ............ 39.10
Alfred P. Davies, Sr. Warden
Canby Cross ...................... No. 679 .... Ralph Granger, Representative:......... 37.80
CarmeL ............................. No. 680.... Lloyd G. Weer, Master...................... 8.10
Gordon C. Browne, Sr. Warden
Chas. A. Watson, Past Master
Dos Palos ......................... No. 681.. .. Elmer L. Mason, Sr. Warden............ 9.50
Glenn Holmes, Jr. Grand Steward.. 9.50
Barstow ............................. No. 682 .... Vincent B. Claypool, Master ............ 36.30
Leonard A. Zagortz, Sr. Warden
Udall A. Tenney, Jr. Warden
Redwood Empire ............ No. 683 .... Arthur Lee Medcalf, Sr. ·Warden .... 21.60
Trona .............................•. _ No. 684 .... Gayle Haughton, Jr., Representative and Past Master........................ 37.76
NoTE: In accordance with the law, payments were made to Past Masters
where shown, in official and authorized capacities, and not to Past Master~
as such.
Lours SUTTER,
RALPH

E. SMITH,

JOHN T. MARTIN,

G. ELLSWORTH MEYER,
STANLEY CHAPMAN,
ALVIN

w. WENDT,

IRVIN D. BULKLEY,
DONALD B. RYAN,

Committee.

The hour having arrived for the annual ele~tion of officers
at t~e direction of the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary read
sections 14 to 19 inclusive of the constitution governing annual
election.
The Grand Master appointed the following brethren to serve
as tellers : .
Samuel E. Dollar
Alfred F. Breslauer
Dudley F. Black
Charles H. Foye, Jr.
William Lisenby
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr.
John Brooks
James Robinson
Joe E. Shell
John Shahan
John C. Oslin
Horace W. Rice

400

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The annual election of officers was held, with the. following result:
The R.". W.". Leslie E. Wood, Provide~t Lodge No. 609,
wa:s elected Grand Master.
The R.~. W.". Claude H. Morrison, San Diego Lodge No.
35, was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.". W.". Gilbert C. DeForest, Reading Lodge No. 254,
was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W.". Lawrence C. Kelley, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202,
was elected Junior Grand \Varden.
The M.". W.". William P. Filmer, Past Grand Master, King
Solomon's Lodge No. 260, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M.". W.". Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge No. 630, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.". W.". Chester H. Warlow, Fresno Lodge No. 247,
was re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the names of
the a·ppointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Byrl F. Babcock, Provident Lodge No. 609.
Grand Orator, Arthur Paulsen, Trinity Lodge No. 27.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal, Jesse F. Mote, Sequoia Lodge No. 349.
Grand Standard Bea~er, Alex D. Potts, le Progres de l'Oceanie
Lodge No. 371.
·
Grand Sword Bearer, Ira E. Kramer, Santa Barbara Lodge
No. 192.
Grand Bible Bearer, George R. Stoddard, Stanislaus Lodge
No. 206.
Senior Grand Deacon, Andre\v J. Cates, Morning Star Lodge
No. 68.
Junior Grand Deacon, George W. Williams, Corinthian
Lodge No. 9.
Senior Grand Steward, Curtis D. Reese, Eel River Lodge
No. 147.
Junior Grand Steward, Ralph A. Ganger, Canby Cross
Lodge No. 679.
Grand Pursuivant, Christian A. S. Kemper, Consuelo Lodge
No. 325.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

401

Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson, Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Til.er, Ralph K. Marshall, Occidental Lodge No. 22.
He also announced the appointment of Chas. M. Wollenberg
to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes
of California, vice self, term expired.
The M.". W.". Dana R. vVeller, Past Grand Master, was
appointed Master of Ceremonies and the officers elected and
appointed were installed by the retiring Grand Master in due
and ancient form.
The newly-installed Grand Master then invested his predecessor with a Past Grand Master's lapel button, in which was
set a beautiful diamond.
The Chas. Albert Adams insignia was transferred from the
retiring to the incumbent Grand Master and the other chair
officers exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The V. ·. W. ·. Grand Secretary invested the retiring Grand
Master with the apron of a Past Grand Master.
Past Grand Master John Stewart Ross, on behalf of Grand
Lodge, presented to the retiring Grand Master a beautiful silver
tray and silver coffee urn, which he was instructed to present
to Mrs. Smith.
George H. Raddy, the Master of Tehama Lodge No. 3, on
behalf of the members of that Lodge, presented the newly installed Grand Master with a handsome and useful leather travelmg case.
Inspector Alexander Douglas Potts in a beautiful ceremony
presented, on behalf of the Lodges of the Hawaiian Islands,
a gorgeous silk lei to each of the following: M.". W.". Leslie E.
Wood, Grand Master; M.". W.". Frank M. Smith, Past Grand
Master, and M.". W.". Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master
and Grand Secretary.
At 2 :10 p. m., all business being completed, Grand Lodge
was closed fn Ample Form.
LESLIE E. WOOD,
LLOYD .E. WILSON,
Grand Master.
Grand Secretary.

Most Worshipful William Parker Filmer, Past Grand Master,
and Grand Treasurer since October 17, 1913, died at his home in
San Francisco Sunday afternoon, November 22_, 1942. Funeral
services were conducted by M. W. Leslie E. Wood, Grand Master,
on Tuesday afternoon, November 24, 1942, Grand Lodge being
opened in special communication. M. W. Francis W. Keesling,
P. G. M., was appointed by the Grand Master to fill the vacancy
in office thus created.

402

PROCEEDI N GS OF THE

STANDING COMMITTEES
(Masters and Wardens to be Appointed after December Elections)
Jurisprudence: ·
Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles.
John D. Murphey, Court House, Oakland.
Francis V. Keesling, 315 Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
George L. Jones, Nevada City.
Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco.
John Stewart Ross, 1017 El Paso Drive, Los Angeles.
Earl Warren, State Building, San Francisco.
Policy and General Purposes:
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
John W. Shenk, State Building, San Francisco.
Albert E. Boynton, 114 Sansome Street, San Francisco.
Will H. Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles.
Frank W. Mixter, Exeter.
Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock Building, San Francisco.
William B. Ogden, 650 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Grievances:
Frank B. Belcher, 510 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Olin L. Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco.
Louis C. Drapeau, Court House, Ventura.
Arthur W. Brouillet, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco.
Joe L. Shell, County Court House, San Diego.
Finance:
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
Frank C. Ruppel, 411 Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Raymond W. Blosser, 220 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco.
Rollie W. Miller, Associated Realty Building, Los Angeles.
F . Wesley Davies, 849 San Vicente Road, Rancho Santa Anita, Arcadia.
Credentials:
Louis Sutter, Anglo-California National Bank, San Franciscu.
Ralph E . Smith, 3227 North Figueroa Street, Los Angeles.
John T. Martin, 1170 Seventh A venue, San Diego.
Alvin W. Wendt, 2325 North Catalina Street, Los Angeles.
William E. Young, 815 18th Street, San Bernardino.
Henry H . Brown, 2303 Rio Linda Boulevard, North Sacramento.
Charters:
Lee T. Mullen, 306 West Third Street, Los Angeles.
Lewis D. Collings, Washington Building, Los Angeles.
Winston E. Squire, Eagle Rock.
Gerald W. Page, 431 Chamber of Commerce Building, Los Angeles.
George N. Peltier, Westwood.
Ed De Patie, 1425 Imperial Drive, Glendale.
By-Laws:
Oakley K. Morton, Courthouse, .Riverside.
Andrew R. Schottky, Mariposa.
Wm. A. Sherwin, 605 North Roxford, Beverly Hills.
Cecil Pryor, 808 South Bradfield, Compton.
Percy W . Lindt, McCloud.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

403

Pay of Members:
John W. Davey, 2164 Hyde Street,. San Francisco.
Arnold Rumwe!l, 185 Edgewood Drive, Palo Alto.
Lloyd C. Campbell, 4000 Whiteside Avenue, Los Angeles.
Charles C. Reeves, 1425 Robertson Way, Sacramento.
Glen Holmes, Dos Palos.
Accounts: (All San Francisco)
Dwight N. Deane, 109 Noriega Street, San Francisco ..
George V. Rulofson, 1415 Franklin Street, San Francisco.
James Hurst 344 Kearny Street, San Francisco.
George D. Horn, 150 Van Ness Avenue, San Fran~isco.
William E. Bouton, 340 Kearny Street, San Francisco.
Returns:
Henry G. Mathewson, State Building, San Francisco.
William W. McKee, 326 Chapala Street, Santa Barbara.
Albert C. Wollenberg, 2748 Steiner Street, San Franciiscq.
Kenneth S. Thomson, 218 Central Bank Bldg., Oakland.
T. M. Widby, 1328 Emory Street, San Jose.
Necrology:
Arthur P. Crim, Redlands.
Ross Roper, 1000 Oakes Blvd., San Leandro.
William P . McNair,· Lakeport.
Correspondence:
Henry C. Clausen, Mills Tower, San Francisco.
Oscar Olson, 3419 Montecito, Fresno.
Frederick 0. Eaton, 781 Laurel Street, San Jose.
Frank Hoberg, Hoberg's, Lake County.
Charles L . Pioda, Salinas.
Grand Lodge Week Activities:
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., 22 Ocean Avenue, San Francisco.
Andrew Burke Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
President Ea;t Bay Masters and Wardens Association.
President San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association.
San Francisco Inspectors.
East Bay Inspectors.
Library:
(Committee to be appointed later.)
Clandestine Masonry:
Warren· E. Libbey, 541 South Spring, Arcade Building, Los Angeles.
John Alpers, 547 Alvarado Street, San Francisco.
Orta A. Pratt, Calexico.
Frank P. Roullard, Court House, Fresno.
<jayle Haughton, Jr., Trona.

404

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
Lodge Financing:
William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
Harry E. White, Fresno.
Walter L. Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Ritual:
Chester H. Warlow, Security First National Bank of Los Angeles,
Fresno.
Charles A. Schwartz, 1622 Ninth Street, Sacramento.
Arthur M. Warren, Bank of California, Mission Branch, San Francisco.
~bed W. Carr, 207 Dolores Avenue, Exeter.
Sidney K. Lehman, 649 S. Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Masonic History:
Leon. 0. Whitsell, 1565 Newlands Avenue, Burling11.me.
W. C. Arbuckle, 988 Franquette Avenue, San Jose.
W. A. Chalfant, Bishoo.
Charles E. Haas, Sup~rior Court, Los Angeles.
Charles R. Ingram, 322 East Main Street Grass Valley.
Wilson W. Newlon, 981 Miller Avenue, Be~keley.
Thomas Norris, Livermore.
David Tulloch, Oakdalf'
Guy Giffen, 2406 Tesla Terrace, Los Angeles.
Millard W. Young, 1940 Ninth Avenue, Sacramento.
Martin C. Arthur. 730 San Benito Street, Hollister.
Miles McK. Anderson, 325 B Street, San Mateo.
Masonic Information:
Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles.
.N. Perry Noerdyke, 311 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Delbert Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco.
Richard H. Chamberlain, 114 Manor Drive, Piedmont.
George C. Jensen, Assistant Superintendent of Schools, Sacramento.
Rudolph Jenny, 5823 Patton Street, Oakland.
Constitution Month Observance:
Robert B. Gaylord, General Chairman, 1220 Russ Bldg., San Francisco.
Northern Committee-Wesley W. Kergan, Chairman, 1429 Russ Building,
San Francisco.
A. C. Wollenberg, Flood Building, San Francisco.
S. F. Worswick, care Masonic Employment Service 1433 Madison
Street, Oakland.
'
}!Imes T. Fraser, Eureka.

Southern Committee-Leo E. Anderson, Chairman, 615 Richfield Building,
555 South Flower Street, Los Angeles.
Lee T. Mulle~, 306 West Third Street, Los Angeles.
John T. Martm, 1170 7th Avenue, San Diego.
Fred P . Roullard, Courthouse, Fresno.
Public Schools Week:
Charles Albert Adams, Chairman, Monadnock Building, San Francisco.
Vaughan MacCaughey, Secretary, 155 Sansome Street, San Francisco.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

405

Robert A. Odell, Chairman, So. Div., 524 Van Nuys Bldg., Los Angeles.
John B. Beman, Pacific Southwest Bank Building, Los Angeles.
Melvin E. Bowman, care Franklin School, Santa Barbara.
John L. Compton, 2525 21st Street, Bakersfield.
Will C. ·Crawford, Superintendent of Schools, San Diego.
Percy R. Davis, Superintendent of Schools, Santa Monica.
Norman H . Farnham, care Standard School, Oildale.
Walter V. Goodfellow, 6381 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood.
F . A. Henderson, Superintendent of Sch9ols, Santa Ana.
Vierling Kersey, Superintendent of Schools, Los Angeles.
John D. Shahan, 1054 West 57th Str.eet, Los Angeles.
John A. Sexson, Superintendent of Schools, Pasadena.
Steadman G. Smith, Attorney-at-Law, 610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles.
Maurice R. Stokesbary, 601 North Garfield Avenue, Alhambra.
Charles E. Teach, Superintendent of Schools, San Luis Obispo.
Jesse W. 'Warner, 1605 Poplar, Fresno.
Walter L. Bachrodt, Superintendent of Schools, San Jose.
Thomas J. Henry, 10730 Roscoe Blvd., Roscoe.
Walter T . Helms, Superintendent of Schools, Richmond.
Roy W. Cloud, 155 Sansome Street, San Francisco.
Virgil E. Dickson, Superintendent of Schools, Berkeley.
Elias E. Ellison, 1863 Eighteenth Avenue, San Francisco.
C. Burnham Heryford, 1101 W. Perkins Street, Ukiah.
William F. Ewing, Superintendent of Schools, Oakland.
Wesley W. Kergan, Attorney-at-Law, Russ Building, San Francisco.
Frederick F . Martin, Superintendent of Schools, Chico.
Joseph P. Nourse, Superintendent of Schools, San Francisco.
William G. Paden, Superintendent of Schools, Alameda.
Jesse R. Overturf, Superintendent of Schools, Administration Building,
Sacramento.
Social Security and Unemployment Tax:
R. P. Wisecarver, 316 Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
James E. Hammond, Hunter-Dulin Building, San Francisco.
Walter Perry Johnson, 111 Sutter ·Street, San Francisco.
Lodge o·f Research:
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Leon 0. Whitsell, 1565 Newlands Avenue, Burlingame.
G. Ellsworth Meyer, 207 South Broadway, Los Angeles.

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
Endowment Board:
Frank M. Smith, Dept. 19, 15th Floor, City Hall Tower, Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Edmund A. Lockett, 522 South Raymond Street, Pasadena.
Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco.
Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles.
Harry F. White, Fresno.
Louis C. Drapeau, Court House, Ventura.
Ernest G. Bashor, 600 Edwards-Wildey Building, Los Angeles.
Rollie W . Miller, Associated Realty Bldg., Los Angeles.
James T. Fraser, Eureka.
Ira D. Wheeler, Box 891, Santa Monica.

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Carl E. Miller, Capital National Bank, Sacramento.
Henry G. Hill, San Jose.
Orno E , Tyler, 3921 Kansas Street, San Diego..
Raymond Taylor, Bakersfield.

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES
With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic
Year Ending July 31, A. L . 5942

Board of Control:
Eugene S. Elkus, 301 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco.
James R. Erskine, 3248 Huntington Blvd., Fresno.
Ben Wright, 740 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Wm. T. Wheeling, 2228 India Street, Los Angeles.
Jack Butler, 519 Capital National Bank Building, Sacramento.
Trustees of Masonic Home:
Chas. M. Wollenberg, President, Laguna Honda Home, San Francisco.
James B . Gist, V ice President, Security First National Bank, Sixth and
Spring Office, Los Angeles.
Samuel E . Burke, 208 Western Building, Los Angeles . .
Chas. Albert Adams, Monadnock Building, San Francisco.
Claude H . Morrison, First National Trust & Savings Bank, San Diego.
Gilbert C: De Forest, Redding.
Lawrence C. Kelley, 203 Union Oil Building, Los Angeles.

DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUBHOUSES
Berkeley:
J o hn D . Murphey, Chairman, Court House, Oakland.
Milton T . Farmer, Balboa Building, San Francisco.
Chas. Albert Adams, Monadnock Building, San Fran'c isco.
Albert E . Boynton, 114 Sansome Street, San Francisco.
William P . Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
William B . Herms, 2032 Del Norte, Berkeley.
Waldo F. Postel, Kohl Building, San Francisco.
Carlisle D. Nielsen, 170 Ardmor e Road, Berkeley.
R. P. Wisecarver, 315 Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
Los Angeles:
Ben G. Wright, Chairman, 740 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Elmer E . Beckman, 609 South Grand Avenue, Los Angeles.
Walter L. Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los A ngeles.
Thomas B. Buchanan, 515 West Seventh Street, Los Angeles.
Will H . Fischer, Edison Buildin g , Los Angeles.
G. Ellsworth M eyer, 207 South Broadway, Los Angeles.
Marco R. Newmark, 977 Arapahoe Street, Los Angeles.
John Stewart Ross, 1017 El Paso Drive, Los Angeles.
Clyde C. Shoemaker, 1012 W . M. Garland Building, Los Angeles.
Dana R. Weller, 704 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Oscar Lawler, 800 Standard Oil Building, Los Angeles.
John A. Klarquist, 618 South Western Avenue, Los Angeles.
William B. Ogden, 540 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
D . K. Bjork, 405 Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles.

407

Lodge

No.

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32

California - ------ --- -- 1
Western Star --------- 2
Tehama ---------------- 3
Benicia --------------- 5
Tuolumne------------ - 8
Corinthian ---------- - 9
San Jose ------------------ IO
Yount ---------------- 12
Nevada ------------ 13
Temple - - - - - - - - 14
Eureka
16
La Parfaite Union _ _ _ 17
Mountain Shade ____ 18
San Joaquin - - - - - - - 19
Washington --------- 20
Hawaiian ---------- --- 21
Occidental ----------- 22
Madison --------------- 23
Mariposa --------------- 24
Georgetown ------------- 25
El Dorado ____.:_________ 26
Trinity -------------- 27
Golden Gate -------- - 30
Gold Hill ----------- 32
Ophir ----·------ 33
San Diego --------- 3 5
Howard - - - - - - - 37
Santa Cruz - " ' - - - - 38
Sacramento ---------- 40
Martinez -------------- 41
Los Angeles ----------- 42
Hiram _____,_________ 43

33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44

Mount Moriah-------- 44
Crescent ---------- 45
Texas ----------------- 46
Forbestown ----------- 50
Illinoistown ----------- 51
Suisun----------------- 55
Volcano ----56
Santa Rosa ----57
Union --------58
Gravel Range --------- 59
Plumas
Live Oak-----------------_________________ 60
61

45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56

Natoma ------------------ 64
Amador --------------- 65
Forest --------------------- 66
Morning Star ------------- 68
Enterprise ------------- 70
Bear Mountain ------ 76
Calaveras
78
Humboldt - - - - - - - 79
lone ------80
Yolo - - ,
81
Vesper ___
84
Naval
87
Rose's Bar __ _: _____ 89

~7

Location

Charter
Issued

San Francisco------ 1850
Shasta ------------------ 1850
Sacramento ---------- 1850
Benicia ---------------- 1850
Sonora ------------------ 1850
Marysville --------------- 1850
San Jose ----· ------ 1850
Napa _______________• 1851
Nevada City ------ 1851
Sonoma -------- 1851
Auburn -------- 1851
San Francisco _ _ 1852
Downieville ----- 1852
Stockton ------- 1852
Sacramento --------- 1852
Honolulu, H. T, ____ 1852
San Francisco _____ :__ 1852
Grass Valley -------- 1853
Mariposa ------------- 1853
Georgetown ---------- 1853
Placerville ------------- 1853
Weaverville ------------ 1853
San Francisco --------- 18 53
Lincoln ------------ 1853
Murphy's ------- 1853
San Diego ____ 1853
Yreka -------- 1854
Santa Cruz ____ 1854
Sacramento __ _: _______: 1854
Martinez -------------- 1854
Los Angeles ______________ 1854
El Dorado -------------- 1854
San Francisco ---------- 1854
Crescent City ---------- 1854
San Juan ---------------- 1854
Forbestown ------------ 1854
Colfax ------------------ 1854
Suisun ------------------ 1855
Volcano -------- 1855
Santa Rosa - - - - 1855
Sacramento ____ 1855
Camptonville ------- 185 5
Quincy -------------- 1855
Oakland ---------------- 1855
Folsom ---------·------- 1855
Jackson ------------------ 1855
Alleghany ------------ 1855
Stockton ---------------- 1855
Yuba City---------------- 1855
Angel's Camp ------- 1855
San Andreas ------- 1855
Eureka --------------- 1855
lone --------------- 1856
Yolo -------------~- 1856
Red Bluff _ _ __ 1856
Vallejo ·---------- 1856
Smartville ------------ 18 56

Fees

Ami.

Fees

100 20.00
50 6.00
75 10.00
50
2.00
75
50
50
60
50
2.00
40
50
100 15.00
30
80
75 10.00
80 10.00
100 25.00
53
50
30
5.00
50
5.00
50
50 10.00
50
1.00
50 4.00
80
50 1.00
80
1.00
75 10.00
75
50 10.00
75 20.00
100 10.00
50 6.00
1.00
30
30
50
50
5.00
30
5.00
75
75 10.00
30
50
2.50
50 10.00
50 . 5.00
50
5.00
50
80
5.00
50
50
3.00
50 10.00
50
50
30
50
50 10.00
50 5.00

Dues

Membel'll

12 544
9 110
9 468
12 130
12 205
9 259
9 413
12 277
9 124
12 105
9 192
12 134
41
9
12 551
9 506
12 337
12 715
10 220
9 162
60
9
9 177
9 102
12 611
88
9
43
9
12 520
9 195
12 320 .
9 525
12 226
9 643
52
9
12 378
9 128
40
9
9
57
71
9
12 119
34
9
9 406
9 506
46
9
9
95
12 901
9 125
9
69
44
9
12 416
12 203
65
9
71
9
18 311
73
9
51
9
9 162
9 674
37
9

408

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
C.h~rter

Lodge

58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70

71
72
73

74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
1G6
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118

No.

J..ocation

Issued

North Star - -- - - - - 91 Fort Jones -------- 1856
St. Helena _
93 St. Helena _____ 1856
Henry Clay --------- 95 Sutter Creek -------- 1856
Hornitos ----------- 98 Hornitos --------------- 1856
Yosemite ------------- 99 Merced ------------------- 1856
Clay ------------101 Dutch Flat ----------- 1856
Oroville -----------103 Oroville ---------------- 1856
Lexington --------104 El Monte --------------- 1856
Arcata ---------------106 Arcata ------------------- 1857
110 Watsonville ----------- 1857
Pajaro ------Chico -------111 Chico ---------------- 1857
Summit __
112 Knight's Ferry ------- 1857
Eden -----------113 San Leandro ------- 1857
Concord - - - - - - - 1 1 7 Sacramento --------- 1857
Fidelity____
20 San Francisco --------- 1858
Alamo _________ 122 Walnut Creek __ 1858
Sotoyome ___________ l23 Healdsburg
------- 1858
Table Mountain_ _________ l24 Cherokee
1858
La Fayette ________l26 Sebastopol
1858
Hermann_______________l27 San Francisco --------- 1858
Visalia _____________l28 Visalia
-------------------- 1859
Nicolaus ________l29 Wheatland ------------- 1859
Woodbridge ..__________ 131 Woodbridge ------------ 1859
Sincerity__ ~---------132 Greenville --------------- 1859
Vacaville____. :______ 134 Vacaville ----------------- 1859
Valley.. __________
135 Linden ----------------- 1860
Pacific __________________ 136 San
Francisco-------- 1860
Crockett _____________ 139 San Francisco-------- 1860
Curtis ___
1860
140 Cloverdale
Grafton _________
141 , Knights Landing __ 1860
Franklin ______
143 Courtland ------- 1861
OrientaL._________144 San · Francisco------- 1861
Vitruvius ___________ . 145 Bloomfield
1861
Abell ____________________-146
Ukiah -------------------- 1861
Eel River ..._____________l 47 Fortuna ------------------ 1861
Lassen .._..:. ____________149 Susanville ---------------- 1862
Molino .._____________________ 150 Tehama ----------------- 1862
W oodland..____________________ l 56 Woodland ------------- 1863
Keystone .._______________161 Milton ------------------- 1863
Harmony______________ l64 Sierra City -------------- 1864
Excelsior.________________ 166 San Francisco --------- 1864
Alameda .. ______________167 Centerville
1864
Redwood City___
168 Redwood City --------- 1864
_169 San Francisco ___ 1864
Mission
Elk Grove __________ 173 Elk Grove ------- 1865
Drytown ________ l 74 Plymouth ------ 1865
Antioch ___________ l75 Antioch ---------------- 1865
Phoenix .._______________178 San Bernardino ------- 1866
Mendocino _____________ l 79 Mendocino
1866
Petaluma ··-------------------180 Petaluma ---------------- 1866
Russian River _______________.181 Windsor ---------------- 1866
Arbuckle ·-----------------------182 Arbuckle -------------- 1867
Clear Lake _____________.183 Lower Lake _____'.______ 1867
Sierra Valley____________ l84 Sierraville ~------------- 1867
Claiborne ·------------------185 Point Arena ---·-------- 1867
Evening Star _________ l86 Etna Mills -------- 1867
Keith .._______________ 187 Gilroy ----~'---- 1868
OaklancL ____________ l88 Oakland ___:________ 1868
Northern Llghc______ l90 Millville ------ 1868
Marin ·---------------191 San Rafael ---------- 1868
Santa Barbara ___________l 92 Santa Barbara ________ llSblS

.

----·------

Fees

35
50
60
65
50
50
50
55
50
50
50
50
50
75
100
50
75
80
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
100
75
35
30
75
100
30
50
50
60
50
50
30
30
50
50
50
100
50
30
50
55
50
80
50
50
50
50
50
50
30
50
35
80
50

Ann.

MemDues hers

5.00
1.00

42
9
78
12
51
9
10
76
12 249
61
9
12 238
9 205
9 188
15 228
12 308
38
9
12 204
9 243
15 514
12 148
12 147
98
9
9. 174
12 191
12 326
81
9
9 114
9
80
12 144
9
64
12 571
12 ...J69
59 .
9
9
62
18
84
12 392
96
9
12 158
9 167
12 152
12 108
9 229
22
12
14
9
12 487
12 122
18 278
12 653
9 116
27
9
12 141
9 469
9 117
9. 271
85
9
12
71
43
9
33
9
12
51
40
9
15 129
12 735
80
9
12 432
15 206

~'ees

10.00
5.00
1.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
1.00
10.00
8.00
5.00
5.00
12.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
1.00

1.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
1.00
1.00
10.00
5.00
1.00
1.00
5.00

409

Charter
Issued

Fees

Ferndale___
193· Ferndale ------- 1869
Mountain View______ l94 Mountain View___ 1869
Buckeye ____
195 Winters ------------ 1869
San Simeon _______ l96 Cambria ----------- 1869
Wilmington ______ l98 Wilmington --------- 1869
Hartley_____
199 Lakeport --------------- 1869
Truckee ______
200 Truckee
1869
Silveyville _______________ 201 Dixon
------------------- 1869
Pentalpha ________ ___.202 Los Angeles ___________ 1869
Confidence._________ _203 Castroville ------------- 1869
Salinas ________________zo4 Salinas
----------------- 1869
Olivet ________
1870
205 Corning
Stanislaus __________ 206 Modesto
------------- 1870
Anaheim_
207 Anaheim - - - - - - 1870
208 ' Rio Viata - - - - - 1870
Rio Viata-...
David's
_
_
_
_
_
209
San Luis Obispo __ 1870
King
Friendship __
210 San Jose - - - - 1871
San Benito _________ _2l l Hollister ----------- 1871
So. San Franciaco __________ 212 San Francisco ___ 1871
San Buenaventura._______ 214 Ventura ---------- 1871
Oak Grove ________ 215 Alameda -------------- 1871
Dc;iric.. ______________ 216 San Francisco------- 1871
Monterey_____ ____,217 Monterey
1871
Mosaic.._________________218 Livermore ------------ 1872
Speranza ltaliana__________219 San Francisco -------- 1872
Downey___________ _220 Downey
1872
lnyo. ______________221 Independence ------- 1872
Roseville _________ 222 Roseville --------- 1912
Bakersfield _______224 Bakersfield
1873
Brooklyn
.225 East Oakland ________ 1873
San Mateo ___________226 San Mateo _____ 1873
Athena _____. _ ___228 Davis ----------- 1873
Solano ____________ __229 Vallejo
1873
North Butte._______________ _230 Gridley ---------------- 1873
Covelo .. ________________ _:_231 Covelo -------------- 1874
Janesville.________________ .232 Lassen ---------------- 1874
Calistoga ..._______________ 233 Calistoga -------------- 1874
Hope ____________________ 234 Beckwourth
------------· 1874
Surprise Valley ________________..23 5 Cedarville -------------- 1874
Hill's F!!rry______________236 Newman---------------- 1874
Guadalupe ______________._237 Guadalupe ------------ 1874
Colusa -----------------240 Colusa ----------- 1875
Santa Ana---~--241 Santa Ana --------·- 1876
Magnolia ___
42 Santa Barbara --- 1876
Eucalyptus ___________243 Haywards ---··-- 1876
Alcarraz _________-'-·-_:____z44 West Oakland ------- 1877
LaureJ.______________ _..245 Willows
1877
Pomona ______________ 246 Pomona
1877
-------------Fresno ..___________________ __..247
Fresno ------------------ 1878
Alturas ..__________________ 248 Alturas -------------------- 1878
Adin ·-----------------------_..250 Adin --------------·------ 1878
Landmark _________________-25 3 Esparto ---------------- 1879
Reading .. ______: ________ ___254 Redding ---------H•••a•• 1879
Welcome ______________--255 Lemoore
1879
1879
Lodi ·--------..:__ _ _ 256 Lodi
Penrhyn _______ __-258 Penrhyn ------------- 1880
Evergreen ____________ __259 Riverside ------------- 1880
King Solomon's ______260 San Francisco ··--- 1880
Tuscan _______ __261 Williams --------- 18110
Lompoc. ______ __.-262 Lompoc
1881
Hesperian---- ·-· _ _ _ _ 264 Santa Maria --------- 1882

50
50
30
30
80
50
60
60
50
40
75
50
50
50
75
80
50
30
75
50
75
100
75
50
105
55
50
50
100
50
50
30
50
50
40
50
35
50
30
50
50
50
75
50
50
50
50
50
80
40
70
35
50
50
50
30
50
50
50
50
50

Lod~e

119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
159
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177.
178
179

No.

Location

------------

-----------

------------

--------------

--------

------------

·-----------------------------------------

Ami.

Fees

5.00
3.00
5.00
5.00

1.00
1.00
1.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50

4.50
10.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
25.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.00
3.00
1.00
1.00
5.00
3.00
15.00
1.00
1.00

Dues

Mambe rs

9
9
12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
12
12
9
12
12
16
12
12
9
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
18
9
•9
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
12
12
15
12
9
12
12
9
12
15
9
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
9
12

121
190
119
102
286
169
98
124
530
28
313
87
351
247
100
306
512
124
227
281
513
438
149
137
353
192
80
267
445
518
231
116
448
122
45
59
70
65
59
102
53
144
408
233
247
459
170
277
555
139
59
85
169
119
279
93
460
537
73
113
212

-

410

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
. 238
239
240

Charter
Lodge
No.
Location
Issued
Orland _ _
65 Orland ------- 1882
North EasL_ _ _----266 Fort Bidwell ------ 1882
Gal
267 Galt ------------ 1883
Durant_____
268 Berkeley ------- 1883
Olive Branch_____--269 Tulare - -------- 1883
Snow Mountain__ _--271 Stony Ford -------- 1884
Pasadena.._________ 272 Pasadena ---------- 1884
Anchor_________273 Compton --------- 1884
Arroyo __
74 Arroyo Grande_ .. __ 1884
Oakdale___
75 Oakdale -------------- 1884
Selma _____
Selma -------------- 1885
Southern California_ _ 278 Los Angeles __ ______ 1885
Hanford ___
79 · Hanford - - - - - - 1885
Madera __
80 Madera ----- - - 1885
Mount Shasta_ _ _ _281 Anderson ------- 1886
CallayomL_ _ _ _ _ _282 Middletown ---- - 1887
283 National City _ __ 1887
South West
San Miguel
85 San Mluel______ 1887
Paso Robles_
86 Paso R Jes_________ 1887
Winnedurnah_____ _ _ 287 Bishop - - - - - ----- 1887
MaxwelL________---288 Maxwell - -------- 1888
Elsinore_________289 Elsinore - - - - - - 1888
East Gate__,__,______290 Los Angeles ----1888
Santa Paula____---291 Santa Paula._________ 1888
Los Gatos ___________292 Los Gatos ----------- 1888
Orange Grove_ _ _ _. _293 Orange ---------- 1889
Traver_______
94 Kingsburg ------ 1889
Mt. Jackson.___
95 Guerneville - ----- 1889
96 San Diego _ _ _ 1889
Silver Gate
Dunsmuir_ _ _ ___i97 Dunsmuir--------- 1889
Liberty___
99 Santa Clara ______ 1890
Redlands ________300 Redlands -------- 1890
Ontario_ ___
01 Ontario ·---- -- 1890
Santa Lucia.__ __ _ _302 Kings' City ____ 1890
Porterville___________-----303 Porterville - ---- 1890
Reedley_ ___ _____,304 Reedley ------ - - - 1891
05 Azusa ----- -------- 1891
AzuH- - - Ashlar ________
06 Colton ·------- --------- 1891
Santa Monica_______....307 Santa Monica ____ 1891
Monrovia__________ _ _....308 Monrovia ------ 1891
309 Delano ------ ------- 1892
Delano------- ----Sisson.__________
IO Mount Shasta ____ 1892
12 Los Banos _ _ _ 1892
Los Banos
Tehachapi_ _ ______.,313 Tehachapi _ _ _ 1892
-314 Corona ---- - -- 1893
Temescal
15 Norwalk ------- 1893
Norwalk- Sanger ___
16 Sanger ~------- 1893
Fallbrook.______
317 Fallbrook - - - 1893
EmmanueL__________ _ 318 Biggs -------------- 1893
Hollenbeck_______________-319 Los Angeles._ _ _ 1894
South Gate ___________ 320 Los Angeles .------ 1894
Alisal_______:________321 Pleasanton - - - 1894
Alhambra.____________ 322 Alhambra -------------- 1894
Whittier______________323 Whittier --------- --- 1895
Corona._________ ____324 Pasadena. - - ---- 1895
Consuelo _______
25 Escondido - - - -- 1895
Needles _ __
326 Needles ---- - - - 1896
Long Beach__ _ _ _ _327 Long Beach ----- - 1896
Redondo.__________ __.328 Redondo -------- 1897
Vallee de France__ _ 329 Los Angeles- --- 1897
Kilauea ..____
330 Hilo, H . T , _________ 1897

"

Ami.

411

Mem-

Fees Fees Dues· be1'9
2.00
9 105
50
9
50
30
5.00
9
62
30
9 543
80
5.00
12 203
50
9
35
30
1.00
12 412
70
12 266
80
82
6.00 12
35
. 50
9 114
1.00
9 140
50 12.00
50 15.00 12 480
12 141
50
3.00 12 165
50
12
55
30
9
50
5.00
30
9 184
1.00
50
30 . 10.00 12
50
9 117
3.00
50
20 108
50
49
12
30
12 109
40
9 713
50 10.00
15 256
50
.12 209
50
1.00 12 184
50
10 102
50
12 111
30
12 556
80
12 194
50
9 226
50
9 339
75
9 206
50
24
89
40
9 317
50
9 124
50
12 159
50
9 168
55
12 233
80
12 200
50
9 164
50
69
2.00
9
50
12 111
75
1.00 9 140
50
2.00 12 137
50
9 120
50
12 180
50
49
5.00 9
30
72
5.00
9
50
9 1037
50 10.00
9 587
50
99
9
50
9 374
50
9 449
50
8.00 12 438
70
9 154
50
1.00 12 223
75
9 488
80
12 226
60
50 12.00 12 115
12 183
50

MemAmi.
Charter
Issued Fees Fees Duea bera ·
Location
No.
Lo die
9 155
35
241 Pacific Grove_ _ _ __J3 l Pacific Grove _____ 1897
80 25.00 12 429
---332 San Pedro ---- - - -- 1897
242 San Pedro
Alta_____
63
9
5.00
53
33 Bridgeport ------ 1897
243
9 193
50
34 Covina - -------- 1898
244 Covina____
15 744
50
245 West Gate______335 Los Angeles _____ 1899
50 10.00 12 756
246 Fruitvale_ _____ ____,336 Oakland ___:__ _ 1899
9 145
50
247 Carquinez_________..J37 Crockett -------- - 1899
72
9
50
248 San Jacinto_____________.,338 San Jacinto.----------- 1899
12 321
50
249 Fullerton---------------....339 Fullerton ------------- 1900
1.00 12 216
30
41 Oxnard --------- 1901
250 Omard_____
9 249
50
343 San Fernando._ __ 1902
251 San Fernando
252 Starr King ______-344 San Francisco - - 1902 100 10.00 12 498
12 73
30
253 Brentwood______-345 Brentwood - - 1902
9 444
4.50
54
_346 Palo Alto - - - - - 1902
254 Palo Alto
__347 Richmond _ _ _ 1902
9 304
75
255 McKinley_
9 498
5.00
1902
55
256 San Bernardino____...348 San Bernardino _
1.00 12 841
50
49 Oakland ~-- 1902
257 Sequoia___
50 10.00 12 475
258 Palestine_____________,3 51 Los Angeles- - - - 1903
Sunaet_________
15 369
50
352 Los Angeles ____ 1903
259
50 25.00 12 124
353 Pinole ------ - - - 1903
260 Pinole
100 20.00 12 486
261 Presidio_________J 54 San Francisco ___ 1903
1.00 12 692
50
262 Hollywood _______355 Hollywood - ------- 1903
15 296
_ _.356 Mill Valley ------------ 1903
80
263 Mill Valley
9 125
30
264 Buena ParJr:: _________357 Buena Park ---------- 1903
9 765
50
265 Golden State_ ___;___--358 Los Angele•- - - - 1904
70
9
50
266 Loyalton- - - - -._ _ 359 Loyalton - - - - - - 1904
12 323
267 San Francisco___________--360 San Francisco ___ 1904 100
93
9
5.00
50
268 Fort Bragg _ _ ___ _-361 Fort Bragg .._______ 1904
9 110
75
269 Charicy_ __ _ _ _362 Campbell ---- ------ 1904
5.00 12 478
50
_ 363 Berkeley - - - - - - 1904
270 Berkeley
9 123
1.00
50
Willits - -- - 1905
271 Willics _________.365 Fresno
____·_ _ 1905
9 637
5.00
80
272 Las Palmas _ ______-366
12 448
70
273 South Pasadena _ _ _ _367 South Pasadena____ 1905
12 355
50
274 Unity----------- - . , - -368 Glendale -·----- 1905
12 312
80
275 Ocean ParJr::_ __________-369 Ocean Park - - - - 1905
Amicy____________...370 San Francisco ----5.00 12 449
50
1905
276
80 10.00 12 372
277 Le Progres de l'Oceanie....371 Honolulu, H . T,.____ 1905
9 153
Gardena______________372 Gardena ----·-------·-- 1906
5.00
55
278
3.00 12 205
80
279 West Los Angeles _ _ _373 West Los Angeles .... 1906
50 25.00 12 127
280 JeweL___________....374 San Francisco ------ 1906
50 10.00 12 539
San
Francisco
___
1906
Richmond
___________
..;_-375
281
5.00 12 187
75
So.
San
Francisco
___
1906
Drake
______
-376
Francis
282
________3 77 Artesia
75
9
30
----------1906
283 Artesia
15.00 12 338
50
___
378
Los
Angeles_
__________
1906
284 Mizpah
1.00 15 152
50
285 Fillmore ___________-379 Fillmore - - - - - 1906
9 243
50
286 Huntington Beach____ --380 Huntington Beach .... 1906
9 122
50
287 Oceanside ,______________ _381 Oceanside -- - --- 1906
12 406
Los Angeles _ ___ 1907
50
288 Highland ParJr::_ _ _382
81
15
50
Orosi - - - - - - - 1907
289 Orosi_______ ___...383 El
Centro ____________ 1907
12 276
75
- _-384
290 El Centro
9 177
50
291 Dinuba_______________385 Dinuba --------------- 1907
12 253
100
292 Coalinga ·-----------------387 Coalinga ----------------- 1907 100 10.00 12 602
293 Parnassus _______________:_.388 San Francisco --------- 1907
9 522
75
294 Palos Verdes ___________389 Long Beach -------· 1907
71
50 10.00 12
295 ImperiaL_ _________ _.390 Imperial - - - - - · 1908
63
9
5.00
50
296 East Belt-____________391 Tuolumne - ---- 1908
9 917
50 50.00
297 West LaJr::e_ _ __..392 Los Angeles.--------- 1908
50 20.00 12 449
San Francisco ------ 1908
298 Balder______ _ __ -393 Los
12 477
Angeles _ ______ 1908
50
94
299 University- 15 182
80
300 Turlock..______ ___395 Turlock - - - - ---· 1908
l.00 12 353
75
Apollo_________
396 Alameda - - ----- 1908
301

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Co~tinued
Lodge

No.

Location

~~~~r

347 Carpinteria_______ _ _444
348 Wilshire __________ _ _.,445
349 La Puente_____________ ,446
350 Torrance ..__________ 447
351 Mt. Diablo___________448
352 Parlc..________________449
353 Van Nuys________________4 50
354 Montebello ----------------- 4 51
355 San PasquaL__________ 452
356 Bethlehem______________45 3
357 Croclcer.________ _ _454
358 Golden WesL _____455
359 Ramona ..______________ ____ 457
360 Henry S. Orme_____ 458
361 Riverbanlc .. ___________459

H. T. - - - - - 1914
Carpinteria -------- 1914
Los Angeles --- ------- 1914
Puente----------- ---- 1914
Torrance ----------- 1914
Concord --------- 1914
San Francisco ____ 1914
Van Nuys - -------- 1914
Montebello - ----- 1914
Pasadena ----------- 1914
San Francisco ____ 1915
Daly City . _ ____ 1915
San Francisco ------- 191 5
Monterey Park._______ 1915
Los Angeles_ ___________ 1915
Riverbank ------~---- 1915

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

MemFees Dues bers

Ami.

Fees
302 Rising Light
397 Huntington Parle___ 1908
50
12 555
303 Fraternity_
· ----~399 San Jose ..------------ 1908
50
9 367
304 Burlingame________400 Burlingame ______:.__ 1908
50
18
401
305 Bay \tiew_________________,401
-----------1909
Oakland
50
5.00
12
319
306 Brawley
402 Brawley - -- - - 1909
75
15 121
307 Y erba Buena_
403 Oakland - - - - - - 1909
80 25.00 12 455
308 Glendor
404 Glendora ____ 1909
30
12
88
309 Moneta ______________405 Los Angeles ________ 1909
50
12 612
310 Burbanlc___________ 406
----------1909
Burbanlc
75
5.00 12 308
311 La Mesa __ _ _ _ _ _407
La Mesa ---------- 1910
50 3.00 12 152
312 Sierra Madre________408 Sierra
Madre.___ 1910
50
12
74
313 Honolulu__
___,409
80 10.00 12 221
314 Charter Rode_______ 410 Honolulu ----------- 1910
Berkeley
-----------1910
50
5.00 12 352
315 Perris_ _ _ _ _ _ _ 411
30
3.00
9
75
316 Calexico______ _ 412 Perris -------- - - 1910
---1910
Calexico
50
5.00 12 133
317 Waucoba
413 Big Pine _____: _ _ 1910
30
9
41
318 Arlington _______ _ .414 Los Angeles _ __
1910
50
9 300
319 Silver Trowel______ 415 Los Angeles __ ______ 1910
75
5.00 12 290
320 Lindsay__________416
50
J2 149
321 Clovis_____
__417 Lindsay - -- - - - 1910
-----------1910
Clovis
50
9 244
322- Elysian ________418 Los Angeles _______ 1910
50
10 412
323 Upland _____________-419
Upland
--------~
1911
50
3.00
9 134
324 Kerman ______________ 420
80
9
52
325 Inglewood ___________ 421 Kennan --------------- 1911
------1911
Inglewood
80
3.00 12 306
326 Eagle Rodc __________.422
---1911
Eagle
Rock
50
12 261
327 Y orlc____________423 Los Angeles _____ 1912
50 25.00
9 180
328 meter___ ____
424 Exeter - - ---- 1912
50
10 146
329 Holtville________________425
75
9 89
330 Midway_______________________426 Holtville -------- 1912
50
12 351
331 Chino Valley______,427 Taft ------------ 1912
Chino -------------- 1912
50
9
53
332 San Dimas ____________,428 San
Dimas.._ ______ 1912
35
12 108
333 Pittsburg ____________ -429
75
1.00 12 164
334 McCloud_________________430 Pittsburg ----------- 1912
9 101
50
335 Alpha_______________431 McCloud ----------- 1912
--- ---- 1912
75
9 383
336 Hammonton _________________433 Richmond
Hammonton _ _ 1913
9 63
50
337 Maricopa______________434
Maricopa - - - - - 1913
50
9 153
338 Fairmount____ ·
435 San
Francisco _:____ 1913
50
12 474
339 Claremont________________436
50
9
89
340 Lancuter______________________437 Claremont ---------- 1913
Lancaster ------------- 1913
60
6.00 12 120
341 Acacia ________,__ ___438 Los
Angeles ___________ 1913
50 10.00, 12
61
342 Tyrian ____ _ _ _ _ __ 439
50
12
93
343 Standard _________________440 Manteca --------- 1913
50
12 300
344 Coronado__________________,441 Oakland ------ ----- 1914
Coronado ------------ 1914
9 180
50
345 Blackmer_____________________ .442 San
Diego -------- 1914
80
9 522
346 Schofield_________________ 443 Schofield Barracks,

80
5.00
9 198
50
12
75
75
12 506
50
1.00 10
66 .
50
15 198
50
12 154
75 10.00 12 407
50
9 276
50
3.00 12 229
70
12 336
50
12 284
50
5.00 12 288
50 10.00 12 441
50
12 207
75
12 510
30
12 79

413

Lodge

362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
~77

378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
398
399
400
401
402
403
404

405
406
407
408
409

410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422

No.

Mount Oao_ _ _ _ _450
Argonauc_________ 461
Paul Revere________ _462
Morgan Hi11_ _ _ _ _463
Alta Vista-464
Center
465
Libertas ____ _ _ _ _466
Culver City_______467
Rockridge _________468
Yorba Linda_ _____469
Lincoln________470
Delta_ _ _ _ _ _ _471
MauL___
472
Blythe________
473
Victory______
·474
American.._
475
Coachella___ _ _ _476
Temblor____________477
Thousand Oalca_ _ _478
Golden Rule
479
Fellowship ________ 480
Mt. Davidson ____________481
Clarence F. Smith___482
Bell.__ _________
483
Albert Pike _ _ _ _ _-484
Chowchilla_ _ _ _ _ _ 485
Caledonia_
·
-486
Vallejo___________.487
Patterson_________________488
East Bay_ _ _ _ _ _489
Corcoran---------'-490
Woodstock_:______ _491
Garvanza_____
492
Atascadero__________ 493
Acorn__
494
495
Lebanon____
Riverdale _________496
Fremont_________ ,___497
Stoclc:ton _________________498
Capital City_ _ _ _ _499
Roosevelt_ _ _ _ _ _500
Westwood_______501
Harbor_____
02
503
Point_________
Seaside_____________ _504
505
Silver Cord
Mount Olive_ _ __ _506
El Segundo_ ____-507
Joppa __________ ______508
Benjamin Franklin _ _ ___.509
Cupertino__
510
11
Sunnyvale
Palms_____
12
Cahuenga______ _ _513
Argonne----- - - - - ---514
Vermont Square __ ___·515
Taft .._____________516
Mount Vemon ____________ 517
La Joll«- - - - - - - -518
Euclid ___ _ _ _ _ _519
Ionic_
'i20

Loeatlon

Charter
Issued

Tracy - ------ 1916
San Francisco ___ 1916
San Francisco ____ 1916
Morgan Hill _ __ 1916
San Francisco ___ 1916
Fresno --- - - - - - 1916
Bakersfield --------- 1917
Culver City --------- 1917
Oakland ---------·--- 1917
Yorba Linda ____ 1918
San Francisco _____ 1918
Stockton ------- - 1918
Kahului, H. T,___ 1918
Blythe ------------- 1919
San Francisco - - - 1919
Los Angeles ____ 1920
Coachella ~---------- 1920
Fellows ------------·-- 1920
Berkeley --------------- 1920
San Jose - - - - - 1920
Oalcland - - - - - - 1920
San Francisco - - 1920
Los Angeles _ _ _ 1920
Bell ----------- 1920
Los Angeles_________ 1920
Chowchilla _ _ _ 1920
Bakersfield -------- 1920
Vallejo ----------- 1920
Patterson ----- ------- 1920
South Berkeley ~ 1920
Corcoran - - - - - 1920
Alameda - - - - - - 1920
Los Angeles ______ 1920
Atascadero -------- 1920
Oakland - - - -- ---- 1920
San Francisco - - - 1921
Riverdale - - ----- 1921
Oakland ----------- 1921
Stockton ----------- 1921
Sacramento ----- 1921
San Francisco _ _ 1921
Westwood - - - - 1921
Richmond - - - - - 1921
Richmond ----------- 1921
Long Beach _________ 1921
Santa Ana ____ 1921
Los Angeles---- -------- 1921
El Segundo ____________ 1921
San Joaquin._________ 1921
Los Angeles _ _ _ 1921
Cupertino - - - - 1921
Sunnyvale _ _ _ 1921
Palms ---------- 1921
Los Angeles __________ 1921
San Francisco--------- 1922
Los Angeles ____ 1922
Taft ----- - - - 1922
San Francisco ------- 1922
La Jolla -------- ------- 1922
Los Angelea ________ 1922
Los Angeles______ 1922

Ami.
MemFees . Fees Dues bers

80
80
50
50
75
80
100
75
50
50
50
80
50
50
65
75
75
50
75
50
50
75
50
50
50
50
75
50
50
50
75
50
50
50
80
100
55
50
80
75
75
35
75
75
80
50
75
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
100
50
50
80
60
50
50

6.00
10:00
1.00
1.00

5.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
25.00
5.00
1.00

1.00
2.50
2.00
10.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
1.00
10.00
5.00
----

12
12
12
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
9
15
13
9
12
18
9
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
9

12
9
9

1.00
10.00
5.00

5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
1.00

9
10
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
12
12
12
9
12

201
347
431
98
263
343
259
189
355
78
251
300
131
56
191
343
78
108
312
373
190
275
252
224
184
72
218
238
64
251
77
176
164
60
359
311
59
318
125
210
133
177
169
89
289
284
636
171
57
216
81
122
170
296
329
354
175
201
129
246
323

414

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
432
43 3
434
435
436
437
438
439

Location

Charter
lasued

Fees

__,64

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

AllU.
MemFees Dues bers

Piedmont.-_________:;21
80 5.00 12 216
Sunriae_ _ _ _ _ _ _522 Piedmont - ---------- 1922
Los Angeles....____ 1922
50
10 197
Bellflower________523
Bellflower - - - - - 1922
55
9 182
Catalina Island
524
Avalon ····--·--·- 1922 100
12 104
George Washington.---525 San Francisco -·····- 1922
50 10.00 12 271
Bay Cicy________526
Francisco---- 1922 100 10.00 12 209
Covenant______
527 San
Los Angeies _________ 1922
50
9 248
Beverly Hills______528 Beverly Hills________ 1922
75
5.00 12 231
Loyalcy_____________j29 Los
Angeles ___________ 1922
75
9 235
Sun Gardll!l-------· _530 Fresno --------- - 1922
80
9 371
Alexandria__________j3 l San
Francisco
____
1922
50 5.00 12 1!2
Smyma________.:;32
70
Azure___________ _j33 Ceres ··----------- 1922
9
55
Fullerton ----------·· 1922
50
12 173
Forest HilL.
534 San
Francisco---- 1922
55 10.00 12 97
Alexander Hamilton.__535
50
1.00 12 130
Seal Rod:: __________536 Los Angeles ..._ ____ 1922
50 10.00 12 133
Utopia________537 San Francisco---···- 1922
Los Angeles_________ 1922
50
9 463
440 Ascot...
538 Los Angeles..______ 1922
50
9 229
441 Belvedere._________539
50
9 193
442 Queen Beach___________ 540 Belvedere ---- ----···· 19 22
Long Beach ····-···- 1923
80
9 107
443 Henry Morse Stephens_.541 Berkeley --------- 1923
55
5.00
9 281
444 Lankershim______542
North
Hollywood
....
1923
75
5.00
9 281
445 SignaL.__ _ _ _ _ _543
50
12 267
446 Glendale____________544 Long Beach --- ------ 1923
Glendale --------- 1923
50
12 318
447 Jonathan.._________ _ _ _545 San
Francisco _ _ 1923
50
5.00 12 154
448 San GabrieL___________ .546
50
12 151
449 Arcadia ...._________:;47 San GabrieL........... 1923
50
12 122
450 Triangle._ ____ ___548 Arcadia ····----·····- 1923
Venice -------·------ 1923
50
15 1!8
451 Justice--······--- - -..--549 San Francisco ---·· 1923
75 10.00 12 155
452 Seaport.·-----------~50
75 25.00 12 159
4 53 Lakeshore __________________ 551 San Francisco -······- 1923
50
5.00 12 179
454 Semper Vireus ..._ __ ___552 Oakland ---·-····- 1923
50
12 139
455 Educator.._________554 Eureka ----------- 1923
80
5.00 12 251
456 White Pine_ ___________555 San Francisco -···-··· 1923
Weed ····-·····--··- 1923
55
2.00 9
81
457 Fairfax·-·- -··------556 Fairfax ······-----······- 1923
80
12 112
458 Hermosa._____
57 Hermosa Beach.______ 1923
60
12 121
459 Point Firmin _ ___________j58
Pedro ······------ 1923
80
12 255
460 Craftsman..____ _______559 San
____
1923
Los
Angeles
........
50
461 Plymouth ______________.560
9 233
-------·-'···
1923
Oakland
50
.
1.00
12
210
462 East San Diego.____________561 East San Diego ....... 1923
75
9 326
463 Pyramid ·----------------.562 San Francisco -······-· 1923
50
I.DO
12
190
464 South Park.______________563 Los Angeles _ _________ 1923
so· 25.00 9 301
465 Foothill.________
---------1923
Oakland
80
5.00
12
244
466 West Adams ..____________565 Los Angeles ....________ 1923
50
12 203
467 James A. Gadi.eld.. _______566 Los Angeles ___________ 1923
100 30.00 12 138
468 Searchlight...........--~-------567 Long Beach ···-·--·-·· 1923
60
9 309
469 Park Boulevard...._______568
Oakland ··-···- ······ 1923
50
12 226
470 · Chateau Thierry......_____569
Oakland
-·········-······
1923
50
I.OD
203
471 Military Service.____________570 San Francisco -·-····- 1923
100 10.00 12 246
472 Francis K . Shattuck.________571
Berkeley
···--·--·1923
75
5.00
9 172
473 James Madison ____________572 Los Angeles .._______ 1923
50
12 159
4 74 Hillcrest...__ ____________________573
Berkeley ---····--- 1923
75
12
55
475 S. W. Hackett.....______574
San Diego - ---------- 1923
80
9 197
476 Fort Crook ------·-········--.575 Fall River Mills ....... 1923
50
I.OD 12 81
477 El Cajon Valley............___.576 El Cajon ---·-······· 1923
50
12
57
478 Sunnyside ··········-···-------..577 Los Angeles ___________ 1923
50
12 247
479 Progressive..........._____.578 Los Angeles.____________ 1923
75 15.00
9 282
480 Warren G. Harding ......___579 North Sacramento.... 1924
75
9 186
481 Santa Maria ..........__________ 580
30
52
12
482 Securicy_______________________.581 Ramona --------·- · 1924
Bakersfield ·--·· __ 1924 100
12 212
483 Rialto ··-- --- ----------------582 Rialto ····-···---- 1924
55
9
84

415

Lodge

484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
496
497
498
499

500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544

No.

Wasco _______________j83
Harding___________.584
Manchester________________.585
Garden Grove...........___,.586
Valley Forge.__________ 587
EI Sereno ________--588
Kauai........--------------.589
Compass.___________590
Escalon ________ __-591
Tujunga.. _____________592
All States.·-- ·-········-- -593
Service_________________.594
Alexander Graham Bell._ ..595
Guardian.·- ·····-···----··.596
Pearl Harbor_____________...598

Location

Charter
Issued

Wasco----------- 1924
Los Angeles _____ 1924
Los Angeles_________ 1924
Garden Grove.......__ 1924
Los Angeles______ 1924
Los Angeles ··----···-· 1924
Lihue, T. H·-··-····· 1924
Pomona ------- - - 1924
Escalon --·-·---- 1924
Tujunga -----------. 1924
Long Beach ________ 1924
Long Beach ····-·- --- 1924
Los Angeles ____________ 1924
South Gate---·········· 1924
Honolulu, T. H. _____ 1924

f;~:~~~t:===::=~~~ r~~~~~d

Fees

=::=== ~~~~ ~~

Grizzly....·-··········- - -601 Portola ----------··· 1925
Melrose __________________ 602 Los Angeles ________ 1925
Dimond....___________
. .603 Oakland -·----- · -·· 1925
Jubilee._______________________604 · Sa11-.t a Ana ---····- 1925
GlassellPark________,________605 Los Angeles.________ 1925
Sojoumer.______________607 Monrovi~ - - - - · 1925
Granada ....- ..:.·····-····· - -·-608 Alhambra ·------ 1925
Provident_ __________609 Sacramento ----··-- 1925
Elmhurst ·
· 610 Oakland _ __...:___::....-'- 1925
Canoga. .
611 Canoga Park _ ____ 1925
. 612 Temple --------·-··· 1925
Temple City·
Three Piilars ______________________ 613 Sacramento --------- 1925
Larchmont.___ ________614 Los Angeles ______ 1925
Hemet .......--------------615 Hemet ----- -- ----- 1925
R. E. Dolley. _____________ __616 Seal Beach ---------·· 1925
Big Bear ..____________617 Big Bear Lake....1925
Southland._______________618 Los Angeles ..____ __ 1925
Neptune ..·--·----···-···--···619 Long ~each --------- 1925
Point Loma ___________________620 San Diego --····-··- 1925
The Gardens._____________621 Los Angeles .._____ 1925
Atwater ......___________622 Los Angeles._ _______ 1925
Menorah.__________________ _623 Los Angeles...---······· 1925
Fortitude...........______ 624 Oakland ------------- 1925
Angeles Mesa ____________625 Los Ang!les.______ 1925
Chula Vista·-·-·······------ 626 Chula Vista ______...... 1925
Lamanda Park........_____627 Pasadena - - --···-·· 1925
Truth .....---------------628 Los Angeles ·----- 1924
Fairview.___________629 Inglewood---·----··· 1926
Ingleside ..._________________630 San Francisco --····- 1926
Benevolence........-----------631 Los Angeles__________ 1926
Normal Heights ..........__632 San Diego ------- 1926
Poinsettia.___________________ 633 San Buenaventura .... 1926
Victorville .______________________634 Victorville --······-- 1926
Riverside ··········--- - ·····-·635 Riverside ________:. 1926
John Marshall ............_____ _636 Los Angele~-------···· 1926
Palisades._____________________637 Santa Monica - ······- 1926
Indian Rock. _________________638 Berkeley ----········- 1926
Composite.__________ 639 Los Angeles ________ 1926
Veritas ......-------·-·-···-·640 San Francisco --······· 1926
James A. Foshay______________641 Los Angeles_............ 1926
La Cumbre___________642 Santa Barbara ····-- 1926
Alta Loma.________________.643 Signal Hill ......----···· 1926
Lomita.·-·····--········-------644 Lomita -···--·-····- 1926
A. F. E. Irwin ...... ___________645 San Pedro ~--······- 1926

Ami.
MemFees Dues bers

80
75
5.00
55 20.00
50 25.00
50 12.50
50
75 10.00
70
2.00
50
50
50
50
50
5.00
75
80 15.00

50
50
50
50
50
50
5o
75
80
50
50
75
50
30
45
50
75
75
75
50
50
75
50
50
50
50
75
50
75
75
60
50
55
50
50
80
50
75
75
105
50
75
60
80

10.00
10.00
LOO
LOO

12 145
12 · 145
12 211
9
90
9 208
12 193
12 94
12 137
12 74
9 143
9 277
9 311
12 172
12 316
12 242

gm
95
9

12
12
12
9

118
182
163
230
73

12
10 ~o ~
10.00 9
1.00 12 132
1.00 9 108
12 117
10.00 9 192
15.00 18 196
9
88
12 78
12
51
5.00 12 U6
9 115
9 123
9 194
12.00 9 174
12 352
5.00 12 133
10 326
1.00 10 108
12 102
1.00 12 157
3.00 12 113
12 94
12 196
12 196
12 321
12
84
10 173
5.00 9
89
12 203
5.00 15 129
10.00 12 152
15.00 12
90
12 105
12
91
15 230
~ ~~i
5.00

7

1

416

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES--Continued
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
553
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577
578
579
580
581
582

Lodge
No.
Metropolitan __________________ f,46
Hawthorne ___________________--647
Damascus ______ _______ 648
Florence _________________.649
La Brea ·-----·--·-····-----------650
Menlo Parlc: .....- ------·--------Jj5 l
Crescenta Vailey_________________652
Fontana·--····-·"-··- - - - -·653
Jordan ·------------------------654
Monte Vista.·--------655
Citrol .____________---656
John D . Spreckels _______ 657
Livingston·------------------..658
La Habra·-------------------------659
Baldwin Park ..----------------660
Malta ·--------------------------.....661
Henry Knox.--------------- 662
0 jai·-------------------- ---- ---663
Kaweah _____
6(;5
Reseda ...------------------666
Meridian-------------------------..667
San Gorgonio___________________.668
John P. Jarman ____________,____669
Greenleaf___________________________f,70
San Clemente ___________________f,71
Laguna Beach ______________672
Far West·-·------------673
Los Cerritos._________________f,74
Modesto __________________________675
Willow Glen._____________________676
Liberal Aru ___________________677
Altadena ·-----------------------..678
Canbys Cross ______________ 679
CarmeL___________ 680
Dos Palos _________________681
Barstow -··----------------------- 682
Redwood Empire ________________ 683
Trana _____________________________ 684

Charter
Location
Issued Fees
Los Angeles ___________ 1926
50
80
Hawthorne - ---------- 1926
San Bernardino ·---~-- 1926
55
Los Angeles ____ 1927 . 50
Los Angeles _________ 1927
50
Menlo Park .............. 1927
50
Montrose ------------ 1927
55
Fontana ----------------- 1927
55
50
Los Angeles ··------·------ 1927
Beach
_____________
Long
1927
50
Brea ---------- 1927
50
80
San Diego ---------- 1927
Livingston
1927
50
La Habra._______________ 1927
50
Baldwin Park.__________ 1927
50
Los Angeles._____________ 1928
50
Los Angeles ____________ 1928
75
45
Ojai -------------------- 1928
Woodlake --------- 1928
75
75
Reseda --------------- 1928
50
Glendale -------------·-- 1928
Banning ---------------- 1928
50
San Jose ----------------- 1928
50
Whittier ---------------- 1928
55
San Clemente ---------- 1928
75
Laguna Beach ____ 1929
50
San Francisco -------- 1929
75
Long Beach ----------- 1929 105
Modesto ---------------- 1929
50
Willow Glen---------- 1930
50
Los Angeles ______________ 1930
50
70
Pasadena ---------------- 1930
Tulelake --------- 1935
50
Carmel ------ 1935
75
Dos Palos ------------ 1939
50
80
Barstow ----------------- 1940
G arberville -------------- 1940
50
Trana
1941
75

------------------

Ami.

Fees Dues
12
9
3.00
5.00
9
4.50
9
10.00
9
12
9
10.00
9
9
12
1.00 12
12
15
12
12
9
12.00
9
15
10
9
12
1.00 12
5.00
9
9
9
1.00 12
10.00 12
10.00 12
9
9
12
12
1.00
9
3.00
9
12
10.00
9
1.00
9
9

Mem~ers

77
80
219
210
185
81
121
81
142
271
134
314
61
93
66
112
246
52
62
94
176
95
118
210
33
75
154
117
178
108
87
189
62
62
46
57
20
46

Total Membership August 1, 1942__________________________________,___________ 126,313

417

EXTINCT LODGES
4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
4 Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
7 Dav>' Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
9 Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No. 9,
Dec. 1874.
11 Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov.,
1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never issued.
26 Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt. Jefferson
No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13,
1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897. ·
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov., 1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8,
Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royal Atch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69, May 2,
1855.
69 Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corihthian
No. 9, Dec., 1874.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charti·1· surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Di 1pensation granted 1857. Charter never issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka Ne !th, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. I ~onsolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma
No. 180, Dec., 1898.
82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 115,
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated witli Gibsonville No. 158, Nov.,
1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 18'.i6. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra Na. 26,
March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena, Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8, 1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19, 1926.

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT .LODGES-Continued
98
99
100
102
105
107

Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct., 1898.
Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, i876.
Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Colum·
bia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted !<eb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now known
as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 · Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.
Doric, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never issued.
151 Palmyra, Placttville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 10, 1862.
152 Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
154 Carson, Carson pry, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
155 Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec., 1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ttt., 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
·
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never issued.
·
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25,
1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No.
180, Dec., 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Ro~:klin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never issued.

419

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
205
213
218
222
223
227
238
239
240
249
251
252
257

263
270
276
284
298

3li
340

Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No. 205,
October l, 1917.
Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
Pleas~nton, Li~ermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
.
Maui, Wailulcu, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendtted Oct. 16, 1884.
Pesca~ero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No 142 as Colusa No. 240,
April I, 1882.
.
'
Greenville, Greenville: 187.8. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
Bro~herhoo~, Duncans Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
Bo~1e, Bodie, 1~78. C~nsolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona March
25, 1882.
,
Solo~o~, ~o?lbstone, ~riz. Ter, 'oispensation granted June 4, 1881. Transferred
to 1ur1sdict1on of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona March
25, 1882.
.
,
Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
We~tport, W~stport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
Tynan, Dunn1g.an, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911.
Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No 78
Dec. 25, 1919.
·
'
Hueneme, !'Jueneme, 18~2. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
Sa~~; ~aria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13,

0

342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands
Dec. 19, 1912.
'
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands Dec 19
1912.
•
'
. ,
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No 205 as O livet No 205
Oct. 1, 1917.
.
'
.
'
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
373 Veter~, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Correg1dor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands
Dec. 19, 1912.
'
398 Fowle;, Fowler'. 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville No. 222
May 29, 1919.
'
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
456 Kennett, ~ennett, 1915. C::onsolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 18, 1925.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No 554 F b
16, 1940.
·
• e ·
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No 628 as
Truth No. 62~, February 14, 1939.
·
611 Owensmouth. c~noga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15, 1931.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No 597 as
Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
·
·
664 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.

420

P R OCEEDiNGS OF THE

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850.
1850

1856

1862

Jonathan D. Stevenson, G. M. William H. Howard .... G. M. William C. Belcher.... G. M.
California No. I
Corinthian No. &9
Born Jan. I, 1800
John A. Reymond .. D. G. M.
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Feb. 14, 1894
Died Sept. I, 1895
Lemuel Lyon .......... S. G. W.
John A. Tutt............ D. G. M. Peter W. Rendle __J, G. W. Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner ......•.S. G. W.
John W. Herville....S. G. W.
Sashel Woods ........J. G. W. Addison Martin ............G. T. John B. Hewson......J. G. W.
Levi Stowell --···~..... G. T. Alex G. Abell...- ..- .... G. S. James Laidley -··--·····G· T.
John H. Gihon..............G. S.
Alex G . Abell.............. G. S.

1857

1851

John A. Tutt................ G. M. Nathaniel G . Curtis.. G. M.
Tehama No. 3
'fc,~~h~~i~oe ~~S 20
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died July J:i, 1897
Died May 19, 1900
Benj. D. Hyam ...... 0. G. M. Charles Mersh ........ D. G. M.
E. F.
Ellis _ _.... G.
Aaron D. Perk....:...S. G. W.
Benj. S. Olds ....._ ..J. G. W.
John
B. _Pope..........J. G . W.
Towns'd A. Thomas...... G. T.
Levi Stowell ...·-···'······- G. S. Addison Martin....,........ G. T.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
1852

w.

s. w.

1863
William C. Belcher.... G. M.
Gil. B. Claibome....D. G. M.
Louis Cohn ............$. G. W.
Wm. A. Davies •.....J. G. W.
James Leidley .............:G. T.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.

1864

William C. Belcher .... G. M.
Benjamin D. Hyem ......G. M.
1858
Benicia No. 5
Gil. B. Claiborne....D. G . M.
Born March I, 1813
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M. Wm.' A. Davies........S. G. W.
Died July 12, 1893
P. W. Shepheard.... D. G. M. Isaac S. Titus.. ........J. G. W.
Chas. M. RadclifLD. G. M. Wm. McCormicL..S. G. W. James Laidley .............. G. T.
Adolphus Hollub.... S. G. W. Jes. W. Bicknell......J. G. W. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
J. R. McConnell ....J . G. W. Addison Mertin ............G. T.
Addison Mertin ............ G. T. Alex G. Abell......-.:,;:oG. S.
1865
Levi Stowell ........•..... - .. G. S.
Gilbert C. Claiborne.. G. M.
1859
1853
San Joaquin No. 19
Charles M. Redcliff.. G . M. Nathaniel G . Curtis..G. M.
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908
Tuolumne No. 8
P. W. Shepheard.,.. D. G. M.
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Wm.
A. Davies...... D. G. M.
Ebenezer Lene........S. G. W.
Died Dec. 31, 1889
Isaac S. Titus..........S. G. W.
Thos.
P.
Hawley
......
J.
G.
W.
T. A. Thomas.......... D. G . M.
Henry H. Hartley..J. G. W.
Jno. R. Crandall....S. G. W. Addison Martin ............ G. T. James Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex_G,_A-be!J=;o..
~
S.
Richard F. Knott....J. G. W.
Alex G . Abell ........ - .... G. S.
Addison Martin ............G. T.
Levi Stowell ..........- ...•.. G. S.
1860

1854

42'1 .•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1866

Nathaniel G. Curtis..G. M. Gilbert C. Cleiborne..G. M.
William H. Howard ..G. M. P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M. Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher......S. G. W. Wm. H. Peterson....S. G. W.
San Jose No. 10
Born Aug. 29, 1810
Alvinza Heyward ....J. G. W.
Died Sept. 18, 1866
Ad'Clison Martin ............ G. T. Thomas Beck ····-····J • G . W .
Nath. G. Curtis.... D. G. M. Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S. James . Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
Rector E. Cole......S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ......J . G. W.
1861
1867
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
levi Stowell .................. G. S. James L. English ...... G. M. William A. Davies ...... G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Columbia No. 28
1855
Sorn June 5, 1813
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died May 29, 1889
William H. Howard .. G. M.
Died June 20, 191&
T. A. Thomas... ....... D. G . M. Wm. C. Belcher....D. G. M. H enry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ..S. G . W. John W. Harville....S. G. W. Thomas Beck ..........S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt......J. G. W. Caleb E. Wilcoxon ..J. G. W. Leonidas E. Pratt....J. G. W.
Addison Mertin ............G. T. J~mes Leidley -·····- ···- G • T. James Laidley .............. G. T.
Levi Stowell .................. G~ S. Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.

1868

1882

187.5

C harles Marsh ............ G. M. John M. Browne..........G. M. C lay W . Taylor.......•..G. M.
Mavai No. 87
Jonath. D. Hines.. .. D. G . M.
Nevada No. 13
Born May 10, 1831
Ed
C Atk"
S G W
Born Dec. & IB25
Died Dec. 7, i894
m. •
inson ·· • • •
Died April 28, IB7&
·
.
D G M George Hinds ........J. G. W.
Leonidas E. Prett.... D. G. M. C has. L· W iggm
.... • · • Moses Heller ···-···--....G. T.
Theo. G. Cockrill....S. G. W. Wiley J . Tinnin......S. G. W. Alex G. A bell.............. G. S.
Fredk. f. Barss........J. G. W. Jacob H. Neff........J. G. W.
1883
James Laidley ··--········G• T. James Laidley ..........- .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell...... - ...•.. G. S. Alex G . Abell ........... . . G . S. Jonathan D. Hines...... G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
1876
1869
Born Jan. I, IB25
Died Dec. 30, 188&
Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M. John M. Browne..........G . M.
• W iley J . Tinnin...... D. G. M.
Mountain Shade No. IB
Ch as. L W .igg ·m.... D. G . •m.
Ed
C A k"
S G W
Born Aug. 29, IB33
Wm. S. Wells..........S. G;W.
m. • t 1nson -- · · •
Died Oct. 25, IBB&
N.
Rucker
....
J. G. W.
·
J
G
W
Hiram
C
W
S I
• "dira1gue .. • GT
· · Moses HeII er ................G • T•
Isaac S. Titus..........D. G. M. J o on L81
ames
•
Y
•··••••••••••·
•
•
Al
G
Ab
II
G S
John S. Ward ...•....S. G. W. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
AX
•
e ··········-·· • •
Richard Dale _, ..•....J . G. W.
1877
1884
James Laidley .......- .....G. T.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. John M. Browne.......... G. M. Jonathan D. Hines ...... G. M.
•
D G M Wil11y J . Tinnin...... D. G. M.
Ch es. L W •1gg1n
1870
.... • . . Ed m. C . At k"1nson ..S. G . W •
N R k
J G W
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M. W m. W . TrayIor......S• G • W . H
Wm. H. Crene........J. G. W.
irem ' uc er.... · · •
Isaac S. Titus.......... D. G. M. Moses Heller ..........:.....G. T. Moses Heller ................G. ~·
Chas. L. Wiggin ....S. G. W. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. Alex G. Abell.............. G. •
Benj. H. Freemen....J . G. W.
1878
1885
James Leidley ....••.....•.. G. T.
• B ne
G M Wiley J . Tinnin....- ....-G. M.
Alex G. Abell ..............G. S. J o hn •M.
row .......... · ·
Trlnity No. 27
Wm. W. Traylor .... D. G. M.
Born Oct. 7, IB29
1871
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M. Wm H. Crene........S. G. W.
Robt. C. Broder......J. G. W. Edm. C . Atkinson .. D. G. M.
Chas. L. W iggin.... D. G. M. Moses Heller ··- ············G; T. Hiram N. Rucker....S. G. W.
Ben. H. Freemen....S. G. W. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. Henry H. Knepp....J. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins......J . G. W.
Nathan W . Speuld ing .. G. T.
Ja mes Laidley .............. G. T.
· 1879
Alex G . A be ll.............. G. S.
1886
Alex G. Abell..............G. S. William W . Tr.e ylor....G. M.
California
1872
Born MorchNo.
17, 1I 822
Edmun d C . At kinson.. G • ••
m.

Died Jan. 18, 1883
~~;~aN~~~o 17~0iB~ ·
Leonidas E. Prett........ G . M.
Died March ·20, 1911
Benj. H. Freemen .. D. G. M. Samuel C. Denson.. D. G . M.
Geo. C. Perkins......S. G. W. Clay W . Teylor......S. G. W. Hiram N. Rucker.... D. G. M.
J ohn M. Browne....J. G. W. 1John Q. Adams ......J . G. W. Morris M. Est ee......S. G. W.
James Laidley ..............G. T. I ' oses Heller ................ G. T. Alvah R. Conklin....J. G. W .
Alex G. Abell ..............G. S. Alex G. Abell............,.G. S. Nathan W . Spaulding .. G. T.
1873
1880
Alex G . Abell.............. G. S.
1887
Isaac S. Titus.............. G. M. Samuel C. Denson......G . M.
Union No. 58
Hira m N. Rucker ...,.. G. M.
Son Joaq uin No. 19
Born Sept. 23, 1839
La Grange No. 99
Born Oct. 14. IB27
Died J uly 2&, 1917 ·
Born Sept. &, 1844
Died April 22, IB92
C
lay
W
.
Taylor
..
..
D.
G
.
M.
.
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Geo. C . Perkins...... D. G . M.
J no. M. Browne......S. G. W. John Q. Adams......S. G. W. Morris M. Est ee...... D. G. M.
Chas. E. Mitchell ....J. G. W. O. W. HollenbecL J. G. W. Alvah R. Conklin....S. G. W.
James Laidley .......... - ..G. T. Moses Helle r ................ G. T. Wm. Johnst on........J. G. W .
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. Natha n W . Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.

1874

1881

.

1888

George C. Perkins .... G. M. Clay W. Taylor.......... G. M. Morris M. Estee .......~G. M. ·
Western Star No. 2
California No. I
Oroville No. 103
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Born Nov. 23, IB34
Born Aug. 23, IB39
D
ied
Moy
I,
1
897
Died Oct. 7, 1903
Died Feb. 2&, 1923
John
Q.
Adams
......
D.
G.
M.
Alvah
R. Conklin.... D. G. M.
John M. Browne.... D. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker........ S. G. W. Jonath. D. Hines....S. G . W. William Johnston ....S. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ......J. G. W. Thos. J . Bowen......J. G . W. Marc. D. BorucL....J . G. W.
James Laid ley .....•........ G. T. Moses Heller ................G. T. Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Alex G . Abell.. ............ G. S. Alex G . Abell..............G. S.

422

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE

1889

1895

1901

Morris M. Estee........G. M. Edward M. Preston ....G. M. William S. Wells. ____G. M.
Martinez No. 41
Nevada No. 13
William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Born June 24, 1861
Born May 4 1841
Chas. R. Gritman ..S. G. W.
Died Jan 23, 1919
Died
April
24,
1903
Henry S. Orme ______J, G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas...-.... D. G. U 0. S. Henderson .... D. G. M.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. Thomas
Flint ..____ G. W. Chas. W. Nutting ..S. G. W.
Alex G. AbelL__________ G. S.
F. M. Angellotti...._J. G. W. Geo. W. Hunter ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T. ·
1890
George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L.
Alvah R. Conklin...... G. M.
1902
Inyo No. 221
1896
Born 1835
William T. Lucas........G. M. Orrin S. Henderson ....G. M.
Died Oct. 5, 1897
Morning
Star No. 68
Guadalupe No. 237
Born June 2, 1863
William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Born March 18, 1850
Died
June
25, 1940
Died March 21, 1931
Chas. R. Gritman ..S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme...... J. G. W. Thomas Flint ..... __ D. G. M. Chas. W. Nutting .. D. G. M.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. F. M. Angellotti ....S. G. W. Geo. W. Hunter ....S. G. W.
George Johnson _______G. S. Chas. L. Patton......J. G. W. Motley H. Flint......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ......- ..G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
George Johnson ....- ....G. S. George Johnson .......... G. S.
1891
Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L.
William Johnston ••.... G. M.
1903
1897
Franklin No. 143
W. Nutting .... G. M.
Thomas Flint.. ····-·-··G. M. Charles
Bom June 2, 1825
Evening Star No. 186
Texas No. 46
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Born Oct. 3 1852
Born May 19, 1858
Died Sept. 2o, 1917
Chas. R. Gritman .. D. G. M.
Died Nov. 18, 1936
Henry S. Orme ...._S, G . W. F. M. Angellotti ..•. D. G. M. Geo. W. Hunter.... D. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens......_J, G. W. Chas. L Patton......S. G. W. Motley H. Flint ......S. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. Jas. A. Foshay........J. G. W. Edw. H. Hart..........J. G. W.
George Johnson ..•.......G. S. Edward Colemisn.......... G. T. Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson.......... G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L.

s.

1892

1898

Charles R. Gritman ....G. M. Frank M. Angellotti....G. M.
Yount No. 12
Marin N<'. 191
Born Dec. 10, 1838
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 14, 1894
Died May 23, 1932
Chas.
L. Patton...... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme.. _.. D. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens........S. G. W. Jas. A. Foshay........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston......J. G. W. Wm. S. Wells..........J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. Edward Coleman..........G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson.......... G. S.

1893

1899

Henry S. Orme..........G. M. Charles L Patton ......G. M.
So. California No. 278
California No. I
Born Morch 25, 1837
Born 1865
Died Nov. 29, 1912
Died April I I, 1923
Jes. B. Stevens...... D. G. M. Jes. A. Foshay........ D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston .... S. G. W. Wm. S. Wells..........S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..........J. G. W. 0. S. Henderson ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..........G.·T. Edward Coleman ..........G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S.

1894

1900

1904
George W. Hunter....G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born-

Died Oct. 14, 1925
Motley H. FlinL...D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart..........S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L.

1905
Motley H. Flint.......... G. M.
East Gale No. 290
Born Feb. 19; 1865
Died July 14, 1930
Edward H. Hart .... D. G. M.
Geo. M. Perine ......S. G. W.
Reuben H. Lloyd ....J . G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L.

1906

James A. Foshay........ G. M. Edward H. Hart..........G. M.
James B. Stevens........ G. M.
live Oak No. 61
So. Callfornla No. 278
Born 1858
Yount No. 12
Born Nov, 23, 1856
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Born March 27, 1841
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Died Dec. 6, 1919
Wm. S. Wells.......... D. G. M. Geo. M. Perine ...... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston.... D. G. M. 0. S. Henderson ....S. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd ....S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..........S. G. W. Chas. W. Nutting ..J. G. W. Oscar Lawler .......... J. G. W.
Thomas FlinL.........J. G. W. Edward Coleman..........G. T. Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T. George Johnson .......... G. S. George Johnson .......... G. S.
George Johnson .......... G. S. Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L. Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L

1907

1913

423

1919

George M. Perine...... G. M. John D. Murphey ......G. M. Chas. Albert Ada,,.;s..G. M.
Alta No. 333
Excelsior No. 166
Pacific No. 136
Born July 7, 1863
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Born 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Reuben H. Lloyd .... D. G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe...... D. G. M. Geo. F. Rodden .... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler..........S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett......S. G. W. Sam. E. Burke..........S. G. W.
W. Frank Pierce ....J . G. W. F. V. Keesling ........J. G. W. Wm. A. She rman ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Bak~r.......... G. L.

1908

1914

1920

Oscar Lawler ............ G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe.......... G. M. George F. Rodden ....G. M.
East Gata No. 290
San Bernardino N.o. 348
Marin No. 191
Born Dec. 24, 1867
Born April 2, 1875
Born Feb. 8, 1874
Died Mar. 8, 1934
Died Oct. 30, 1938
W. Frank Pierce .... D. G. M.
Sam. E. Burke ........ D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller......S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett.... D. G. M. Wm. A. Sherman....S. G. W .
A. J. Monroe..........J . G. W. F. V. Keesling ........S. G . W. Arthur S. C rit es......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T. W. Rh. Hervey........J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer......G . T.
Wm. Parker Filme r...... G. T.
John Whicher ....._.......G. S. John
Whicher ..,.._ ____ (!;. S. John W hicher -··-·-··:..G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

1909

1915

1921

W. Frank Pierce........ G. M.
E. Burke........G. M.
Albert G. Burnett ...... G. M. Samuel
Oakland No. 188
Sunset No. 362
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Born April 9, 1856
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Died Aug. 15, 1923
Wm. A. Sherman .... D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller...... D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe..........S. G. W. F. V. Keesling ........ D. G. M. Arthur S. Crites ......S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer........J. G. W. Wm. Rh. Hervey....S. G. W. David J . Reese........J. G. W.
Edward Colema n..........G. T. Bradford Webster..J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ____,:._....G. S. Wm. Parker Filmer_,. __G. T. John W hicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L. John Whicher ............_G. S. Thomas J . Baker..........G . L
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

1922

1910

1916
William A. Sherman..G. M.
Dana R. Weller.......... G. M.
PrHldlo No. 354
Francis V. Keesling ....G. M.
So, California No. 278
Born Sept. 17, IBBO
Callfornla
No.
I
Born March 24, 1874
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Born Feb. 17, 1877
A. J. Monrt>e .......... D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crites ...... D. G . M.
Wm. P. Filmer ........S. G. W. Wm. Rh. Hervey.... D. G. M.
David J . Reese ......S. G . W.
J. D. Murphey........J. G. W. Bradford Webster..S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Chas. A. Adams....J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. Wm. Patker Filme r...... G. T.
Whiche r ········-···G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. John Whicher ..............G. S. John
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.
19ll

1917

1923

1918

1924

Alonzo J. Monroe...... G. M.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey..G. M. Arthu r S. C rites.......... G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Bakersfleld No. 224
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Born Feb. 4, 1879
Born March 26, 1870
. Died June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer~=o:G"."M": Bradford Webster.. D. G. M. David J. Reese...... D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey........ S. G. W. Chas. A. Adams ......S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton......S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe......J. G . W. Geo. F. Rodden ......J. G . W. Geo. L. Jones..........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G . T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Pa rker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher _............ G. S. John W hicher ····-··-···G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

1912

Wm. P. Filmer............ G. M. Bradford Webster ...... G. M. David J . Reese ............G. M.
King _Solomon No. 260
San Buenaventura No. 214
Live Oak No. 61
Bnrn March 2, 1866
Born Aug. 22, 1871
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died Nov. 9, 19H
Died November 22, 1942
Died June 4, 1941
Jno. D. Murphey.... D. G. M. Chas. A. Adams.... D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton...... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe......S. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ......S. G. W. George L. Jones ____S, G. W .
Alb. G. Burnett......J. G . W. Sam. E. Burke..........J. G. W. Will H. Fischer......J. G . W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G . T.
John Whicher ..,...........G. S. John Whicher ........_ ... G. S. John Whicher _............ G . S.
Thomas J. BJOker..........G. L Thomas J. Baker..........G. L Thomas J. Baker..........G. L

424

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1925

1931

Albert E. Boynton...... G. M. Robt. B. Gaylord ........ G. M.
Oroville No. 103
Oakland No. 188
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Born Nov. 24, 1876
Geo. L Jones...... - .. D. G. M. Frank W. Mixter.... D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer ...... S. G. W. James 8. Gist.......... S. G. W.
Gus. A. HutafL ..... J. G. W. Wm. A. Sitton ........ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ·····-·-····G· S. John Whicher ............-G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1926

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1937
James T. Fraser.......... G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Aug. 28, 1868
Leon 0. WhitselL..D. G: M.
William H. Waste .. S. G. W.
William B. Ogden .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher................ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L.

1932

1938

1933

1939

Pentalpha No. 202
Born Aug. 8, 1868
R. V. Whiting ........ D. G. M.
Earl Warren ...... - .. S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller .... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Hollywood No. 355
Born Aug. 26, 1876
Lloyd E. Wilson ...... D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith ...... S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood .. :... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ........ G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Walter Leonard ............ G. L.

1934
Gustav A. Hutaff...... G. M.
Randolph V. Whiting .. G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. 5, 1879
King Solomon No. 260
Died Oct. 17, 1933
Born Nov. 30, 1870
C. M. Wollenberg .. D. G. M. Earl Warren .......... 0. G. M.
J. S. Ross ................ S. G. W. Rollie W. Miller...... S. G. W.
Robt. B. Gaylord .... J. G. W. James T. Fraser......J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher .............•G. S.
Thomas J. Baker....•..... G. L. Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L.

1940
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G. M.
Ingleside No. 630
Born Aug. 16, 1895
Frank M. Smith.~...... D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood ........S. G. W.
Claude H. Morrison .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ........ G. T.
John Whicher................ G. S.
Walter Leonard ....,..... .'.G. L.

George L. Jones .... _.. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter........ G. M. Leon 0. Whitsell.. ...... G. M.
Madison No. 23
Exeter No. 424
Orange Grove No. 293
Born May 11, 1873
Born Dae. 30. 1873
Born July 10, 187~
Will H. Fischer...... D. G. M.
James
B.
Gist
........
D.
G.
M.
William H. Waste .. D. G. M.
Gus. A. HutafL ..... S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg .. J. G. W. Wm. A. Sitton ........ S. G. W. William B. Ogden .S. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. R. V. Whiting ........ J. G. W. Lloyd E. Wilson ......J G. W.
John Whicher .............•G. S. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer........ G. T.
Thomas J. Baker..........'G. L John Whicher ---~····-···G· S. John Whicher •............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L.

1927

Wil~~hi:t~h0~r445····-G. M. James B. Gist............ G. M. William B. Ogden ...... G. M.

Born Sept. 11, 1875
Gus. A. Hutaff........ D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg .. S. G. W.
J. S. Ross ................ J. G. w.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ......•....... G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1928

1929

1935

1941

C~ M. Wollenberg ...... G. M. Earl Warren ................ G. M. Frank M. S~ith ............ G. M.
Starr King No. 344
Born March 13; 1873
John S. Ross .......... D. G. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord .... S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1930

Seq uoi• No. 349
Ea.t Gate No. 290
Born March 19, 1891
Born April I, 1894
Rollie W. Miller ...... D. G. M. Leslie E. Wood ...... D. G. M.
James T. Fraser ...... S. G. W. Claude H. Morrison .. S.G. W.
Leon 0. Whitsell. ...J. G. W. G. C. DeForesL ..... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer........ G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ............ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L. Chester H. Warlow ...... G. L.

1936

1942

John Stewart Ross .....:G. M. Rollie W. Miller.......... G. M. Leslie E. Wood ............ G. M.
El Centro No. 384
Sunset No. 352
Provident No. 609
Born May 21, 1879
Born Oct. 17, 1883
Born April 2, 1897
Robt. B. Gaylord .... D. G. M. James T. Fraser...... D. G. M. Claude H. Morrison .. D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter ....S. G. W. Leon 0. Whitsell ....S. G. W. Gilbert C. DeForest.. S. G. W.
James B. Gist ........ J. G. W. William H. Waste .. J. G. W. Lawrence C. Kelley .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer........ G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher................ G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ............ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. I Leslie E. Wood.: ............ G. L. Chester H. Warlow ...... G.-L.

425

LIST OF INSPECTORS
Inspectors

Date of Coi:nmission

District

Clark H. Shaw:... :.......................•...................July, 1911.. .........- .................... 97
C. S. Baldwin ............................................ ] anuary, 1915.................................. , 7
Harry W. Bessac ..............._. .................. February, 1918.................................. 49
Karl L. Ratzer .......................•..............January 1, 1921.......... -.:.................. 117
John M. Icardo .................- .....:............:.January, 1921.................... .'............. 115
Ralph M. Foote ................................ September 5, 1922 ................................. 26
Chester C. Morris .................................. February, 1923.................................. 37
James B. McLees .......................... December 27, 1923..................................109
Frederick C. · Warner .............................. October, 1924 ................................. 83
F. ]. Joubert .................................•........ November, 1924.................................. 12
Eric R. J ohnson ...... ~....................... N ovember 13, 1924.................................. 48
S. Leslie Hawken ..... .'........................January 27, 1925.................................. 52
Arthur E. Tangeman.'.......................February 1, 1925.................................. 94
Frank G. Falloon .................................... October, 1925.................................. 75
Henry C. MacMaster............................ February, 1926.............................~ ....101
] oel S. Conklin .... ~ ..................................... ] anuary, 1927.................................. 11
C. A. Shepnerd.,:............................. November 1, 1927 ... ~~ ............................. 102
Thomas A. Dille ............................ November 12, 1927.................................. 78
Clarence L. Fraser .............................. December, 1927.................................. 63
Roy I. LeFever .......... : . ~ .......,., ..:.: .• :.....January 1, 1928.................................. 96
Manley J. Clark... ~ ....... ::., ..........................:................1928...:.............................. 39
Wm. S. Thompson ...................................... March 1928.................................. 59
Bernard F. Hoisholt ...................... November 1, 1928 ................................. 27
Wm. L. Hovis ...................................... December, 1928.................................. 79
Rudolph Mohr, Jr: ...................................January, 1929............................ .-..... 46
]. Lynn Goode:.......................•............. January 1, 1929.................................. 81
A. E. Blanchard ...................................................... 1930.................................. 116
Sophus Nelson ............................. ~ ............ January, 1930.................................. 38
Geo. P. Salm .............................................. June· 14, 1930...,............................... 82
Harry 0. Carlson .......................... ,...........July 1, 1930.................................. 57
Alfred F . Breslaucr ................................January, 19.~l. ................................. 43
Horace E. Vedder .......................... December 16, 1931.................................. 91
Norman G. Johnson ............... ~ ............... January, 1932................................ :: 2
A. B. Guslander .......:.... .'............ :...... :.:..-..January, 1932~ ... .-................... ;_........ J
Walter G. Orman ....................................January, 1932......... :........................ l
Truman Van Dyke .............................. February, 1932.........:... :....... ::........ :.. 76
George A. Otis ...:............................................ May, 1932 ................................. 112
Niles 0. Millar ........................... ~ ....................July, 1932 ................................. 32
Harry Nelson ........................................January 1, · 1933 ........ .'........................ 31 .
Jos. ~- Greenley ............. :................ :.....]anuary l, 1933..........•....................... 54-A
Thomas B. Pollard ...............:............... :.. January, 1933_............................... 19
Louis Mittelman ............................................ April, 1933 .........................- ...... 29
T. Glenn Wright ........: .:...................... August 8, 1933 ..: ................. :.. :......... 20
Harry S. Clark ...................................... October 1, 19.~~ .....:.:.....,: ................... 111'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

426
Inspectors

Date of Commission

District

W . R. Farmer.........'........................:........January, 1934.....- .....•.................... 92
Herman Thode............................:............... March, 1934.......................-....... 8
W. ]. Courtiour................................... August 13, 1934--.......................... 98
H. R. Hargrave.............................. September 15, 1934.................................. 62
Chas. H. Knights ............................ December 28, 1934.................................. 108
. Alexander D. Potts............................January 1, 1935.................................. 103
Walter Von Konsky............................January 1, 1935.................................. 41
Arthur Joel (served 1919 to 1931) ..January 1, 1935_................................ 48-A
A. L. Auradou......................................January 1, 1935......................'.;.........J.13
W . I. Kohnke ........................................January 1, 1935.................................. 47
John Behrens........................................January 2, 1935................................. 114
Chas. S. Hogan.............................................. April, 1935.............................,.... 5
Carl C. Mikesell....~ ................................. October, 1935..................................104-A
Samuel Dollar ........................................ December, 1935 ................................. 61
Willard G. Babcock...........:..............January 10, 1936...................................106
A. H . Allen...............................:..............January, 1936..................................100
James W. Robinson ................................January, 1936................................., 16
Chas. 0 . Burrell................................January 10, 1936.............~-·-· ..-·............ 54
Wm. L. Davis.......................................... October, 1936 ................................. 60
Frank Harwell, Jr ............................. October 10, 1936 ............................,..... 84
'vViiliam C. Gover.~.................................. O ctober, 1936 .......-.:........................ 6
John R. Moore.................................. October 31, 1936................................. 86
Carl F. Peters...................~ .............. N ovember 1, 1936.................................. 80
George S. Ward.........'.........................January 1, 1937.................................. 4
Lucas · Schaffer......................................January 1, 1937........................:......... 14
Keith W . Schlaegel...................:...... February 10, 1937.................................. 99
Gustav A. Quick...................................:....June 5, 1937...........:...................... 71
Harry A. T rµesdale ............................ November, 1937.................................. 68
Russell W. Giles.....,.................... November 16, 1937................................. 56
Ralph H. Logsdon .............................. December, 1937.................................. 104
C. A. Severin........................................January 1, 1938 .................................. 34
Orval A. Myers ....................................... February, 1938..:............,................. 10
Karl F. Stolting........................................ April 1, 1938.................................. 50
Fred Weed............................................ September, 1938................................. 110
Roy C. Bryan..._. ..............,................... October 12, 1938.................................. 77
George L. Stivers.............................:N ovember, 1938.................................. 23.
Guido de Ghetaldi.................................. October, 1938.................................. 18
Wm. H. A. Fleischer........................ November, 1938......................7.......... 42
Leonard Gross ................................ December 17, 1938.................................. 96-A
Harold L. Mason................:...,...............January, 1939 .................................. 15
Roy S. Lenthall......................................January, 193\.1.................................. 36
Chas. H. Foye ......................................January 1, 1939 ................................. '87
Ralph C. Hine............................................ August, 1939............................:..... 70
E. L. Smith...................'.\........................January 1, 1939.................................. 9
Geo. E. Delavan, Jr ...........;..................... August, 1939.................................. 73

Inspectors

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

427

Date of Commission

District

Hardus Sorkness........ :.........................November, 1939..................................107 ~
Wm. H. Baxter.................................... December, 1939.................................. 65
] . Wesley Sibole.................................. December, 1939.................................. 25
Ralph M. Small.......~.................................................. 1940..............'......'.............. 40
Frederick A. P~nn.: ....................................:..............1940_..................;......... 51
Lawrenc~ Bolenbaugh ........................January 1, 1940.................................. 35
Harry L. Jasper................................ February 1, 1940............................:..... 24
Ralph L. Pierson........................................May 6, 1940...................... ,........... 95
] . Tyler Parker, Jr ............................. September, 1940....................'.............. 90
E. L. Hicok (Served 1923 to 1936) .... 0ctober, 1940.............:.................... 17
Albert J . Erichsen .............................. November, 1940 .................:................105
Harold S. Morrison.......................... December 1, 1940............-...................... 89
Emil Bender.................:........................January 1, 1941.................................. 44
Chris J . Christensen.... ,.......................} anuary 1, 1941.................................. 48C
Owen L. Craghead................................ March 20, 1941.................................. 58
Henry Kaiser .............................................. April l, 1941.:......................·.......... 55
Elbert W. Davis ............................................Apri~ 1941 .................................. 33
Rolla L. Eubanks..:....:.................................. April, 1941.................................. 30
Edward B. Gould ........................................May 1, 1941.........................:........ 64
Joe T . Moran....................., ............................ May, 1941,................................. 13
J ohn Ferguson, Jr ............................... October 7, 1941.................................. 45
Henry C. Mack........................................January, 1942.................................. 66
Theodore H. Rowcliffe..........................} anuary, 1942.................................. 67
Nels H . Johnson ..................................January 6, 1942.................................. 53
Leighton D. Armstrong .................. February 1, 1942.................................. 22
Robert K. McGuire........................ February 26, 1942.................................. 88
Miles J. McClelland ............................March 10, 1942......:.....................·...... 21
G. Ellsworth Meyer ................................ April 9, 1942.................................. 85
William A. Sharp................................ October 6, 1942.................................. 68
Bert T. Baker ...................................... O'ctober 7, 1942.................................. 48-B
Frank M. Wright......................... :.......... October, 1942.................................. 93

·428

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cuba, Isle of:
Dr. Luis Martinez Reys, Grand Secty.,
Aparto 72, La Habana, Cuba.
*Czecho-Slovakia:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueN ational Grand Lodge of Czecho~Slovakia at Prague.

*Brazil:
The Grand Lodge 'o f Amazon and Acre
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
The Grand Lodge of Para
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo,

*Denmark:

Canada:
Alberta-

Egypt:
Abd El Maguid Younis, Grand Secty.,
The National Grand Lode of Egypt, ·cairo, Egypt.

Masonic Temple, Calgary.
B.ritish ColumbiaFrank S. McKee, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
OntarioEwart G. Dixon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton, Ontario.
Manitoba}. H. G. Russell, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
New BrunswickR. D. Magee, Grand Secty., .
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotiaJ am es C. Jones, Grand Secty., ·
F. M. Hall, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandL. A McDougall, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
QuebecW. W. Williamson, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1559, Montreal, Quebec.
Saskatchewan- ·
Robt. A. Tate, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chile:
Rod Castro 0., Grand Seery.,
Av. 656, Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
*Colombia:
National Grand Lodge at ·BarranquillaGualberto Barba, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 333.
The Grand Lodge of the Republic at llogota.
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena.
Costa Rica:
Rafael ·Obregon Loria, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, San Jose, Costa Rica.

429·

Equador:
Jose A Vallejo, Grand Secty.,
Guayaquil, S. A.

England:
Sidney A White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.
*France:
Independent National Grand Lodge.
*Germany:
The Grand Lodge of Saxony.
Grand Lodge " Concord" at Darmstadt.
Grand Lodge "Gernfarl Fraternal Chain" at Leipzig.
Grand National Mother Lodge of the Prussian States,
"The Three Globes," at Berlin.
Grand Lodge of Hamburg.
The Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union at Frankfort.
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship at Berlin.
The National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons at Berlin.
The Grand Lodge "Zur Sonne" at Bayreuth,
Guatemala:
.
Pedro Donia 0., Grand Secty;..
..
Apartado 312, Guatemala City, C. A.
*Holland:
Honduras:
M. F. Rodriguez, Grand Secty.,
Teguciagalpa, Honduras.
Ireland:
H. C. Shellard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons· Hall, Dublin, Ireland.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico, F. T. Berger, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific, Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
New South Wale~:
United Grand Lodge of New South WaJ·es,
James S. Miller, Grand Secretary, Masonic Hall, Sidney, N. S. \.\.
New Zealand:
H . A Lamb, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 562, Dunedin, New Zealand.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

430
*Norway:

Panama:
Andres Mojica, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, C. A.
Peru:
Gonzalo Colmenares, Grand Secty.,
Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Antonio Gonzalez Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 990, Manila, P. I.
Puerto Rico :
Rudolfo Ramirez-Pabon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 747, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
Leslie P. Marks, Grand Secty.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Salvador (Cuscatlan):
Jose Lacayo Tellez, Grand Secty.,
San Salvador, C. A.
Scotland:
W. King Gillies, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
South Australia:
R. Owen Fox, Grand Secty.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
Sweden:
Vngve G. Wisen, Grand Secty.,
Frimurarelogen, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerland:
The Chancery of the Grand Lodge Alpina,
Bogenschutzenstrasse, 8, Berne, Switzerland.
Tasmania:
W. H. Strutt, Grand Secty.,
Hobart, Tasmania. Australia.
Victoria:
Wm. Stewart, Grand Secty.,
Melbourne, Australia.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A. E. F. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia ( 438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland;
Adin (250) Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda ( 167), Centerville.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Vista ( 464), San Francisco.
Alta Loma (643), Signal Hill.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

*Yugoslavia:
Grand Lodge of the Serbs-Croats & Slovenes.
*The ruthless hand of ignorance, the devastation of war and the
tyranny of despots renders impracticable or impossible the practice of fraternal intercourse with the Grand Jurisdictions designated thus (*), but the Grand Lodge of California has taken no
action severing the fraternal bonds which bind us together.

Amity (370), San Francisco.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut ( 461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414); Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero ( 493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell ( 483), Bell.
Bellflower ( 523), Bellflower.
Belvedere (539), Los Angeles.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.

Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blythe ( 473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank. ·
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c

*Vienna:
West Australia:
A. E. Jensen. Grand Sectv..
Perth. West Australia.

431

Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Caledonia ( 486), Bakersfield.
Calexico ( 412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.

Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Catalina Island. (524), Avalon.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock ( 410), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley ( 427), Chino.
Chowchilla ( 485), Chowchilla.

432

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citro! (656), Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482),
Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.

Colusa (240), Colusa.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City. '
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

433

Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.

G
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba .(385). Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Eagle Rock ( 422), Los Angeles.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561),
East San Diego.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
Evening Star (186), Etna Mills.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Exeter ( 424), Exeter.

F
Fairfax (556), Fairfax.
Fairview '(629), Inglewood.
Fairmount ( 435), San Francisco.
Fallbrook (317), Fall brook.
Far West (673), San Francisco.
Fellowship ( 480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.

Foothill' (564), Oakland.
Forbestown (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.
Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg ..
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Francis Drake (376), South
San Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.

H
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, H. T.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Henry Morse Stephens (541),
Berkeley.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.

Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Holtville ( 425), Holtville.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, H. T.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Huntington Beach (380),
Huntington Beach.

I
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.

Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.

J
James A. Foshay (641),
Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield (566),
Los Angeles.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.

John Marshall (636),
West Hollywood.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego.
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
Joppa ( 508), San Joaquin.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.

434

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.

Justice (549), San Francisco.

K
Kauai (589), Lihue, H. T.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman ( 420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, H. T,
King David's (209),
San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260),
San Francisco.

435

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Mount Davidson (481),
San Francisco.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.

Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mountain View (194),
Mountain View.

N

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Lagun~ Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Lanker shim ( 542),
North Hollywood.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
La Puente (446), Puente.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Honolulu, H. T.

Lexington (104), El Monte.
Liberal Arts (677),
West Los Angeles.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Lincoln ( 470), San Francisco.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lomita (644); Lomita.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Los Angeles ( 42), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lynwootl (600), Lynwood.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, H. T.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.

Meridian (667), Glendale.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles. ·
Midway (426), Taft.
Military Service (570),
San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Mizpah ~378), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675) , Modesto.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Moneta ( 405), Los Angeles.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Morgan Hill ( 463), Morgan Hill.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.

Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
Nor th Butte (230), Gridley.
North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (31!1), Oceanside.
Ojai (663), Ujai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.

Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Fran::isco.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
·Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Porterville ( 303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid ( 562), San Francisco.

Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.
Park ( 449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere ( 462), San Francisco.
p,.,.rJ Harbor (598), Honolulu, H. T.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI.A

436

437

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto.
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Sacramento ( 40), Sacramento.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
San Bernardino (348),
San Bernardino.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
San Pasqual ( 452), Pasadena.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia (302), Kings City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Schofield ( 443), Schofield Barracks,
H.T.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.

s

Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397),
Huntington Park.
Riverbank ( 459), Riverbank.
Riverdale ( 496), Riverdale.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
::iignal (543), Long Beach.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego. ·
Silver Trowel (415), Los Angeles.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco.
South West (283), National City.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco.
Standard (44G), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

T
Torrance ( 447), Torrance.
Traver (294), Kings.burg.
. Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows;
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.

u
Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Vallee de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo ( 487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.

Vermor.t Square (515), Los Angeles.
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano ( 56), Volcano.

w
Westwood (501), Westwood.
White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop;
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156),'Woodland:
Woodstock (491) , Alameda.

Warren G. Harding (579),
North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Waucoba (413), Big Pine.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373),
West Los Angeles.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
·Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

York (423), Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

438

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNlA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

439

INDEX OF SUBJECTS
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most W~rshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In this, our first report, your committee first pays tribute to Brother
Jesse M. Whited. During his long, faithful and successful career as
chairman of · t.he Committee on Correspondence, he ·has earned the warm
affection and unusual admiration of th-e Masonic-speaking world. Would
that we were as gifted as he in reporting the top stories and singling out
reviews for special comment.
As we approached our task it seemed as though . we heard the sound
of a startling note. Contemporary reviewers spoke with alarm of the
growing tendency toward minimizing the importance of correspondence
reports. The cause may have been uninteresting selections or dull methods
of presentation. In any event, we were faced with the question : Why
correspondence reports?
·
The answer is bound up, literally, in the some hundred volumes received
annually in the office of our Grand Secretary. Each represents the activities of a sister jurisdiction comparable to that of California. Every Blue
Lodge and Grand Lodge officer and committee member should direct a
most searching interest into these reflections of things Masonic-what
Masonry is doing throughout the nation and the world. It would be impossible for each brother to study all these volumes.
Convinced, therefore, that a correspondence report. can be of great
value and interest, your committee inaugurated several innovations. Each
member was an active participant. From our. several compilations we
have stripped that which was considered superfluous and concentrated on
culling the best from each Grand Master's Message, each Grand Oration,
each Grand Lodge activity. We present, therefore, what is intended as a
time saving guide or index to the current Masonic thought.
You may be interested in what we found to be the synthesis of that
thought in this time of war. It could be summarized in a question. How
can we sit in our Lodge rooms and talk of universal brotherly love when
the men of this world are killing each other in the greatest human slaughter
of history?
·
The answer though is quickly found in the realization that this is also
Masonry's war. The enemy would destroy our existence would force a
rejection of that which we may call our divine insight: 'that man is of
equal cosmic importance. There is nothing soft about our idea of the
universal brotherhood of man. It is worth working for , worth fighting
for, worth dying for. On that central war theme do our Masonic Grand
Jurisdictions unite in saying: "The die is cast; there shall be no .regrets."
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY

c. CLAUSEN,

OSCAR OLSON,
FREDERICK 0. EATON,
FRANK HOBERG,
LEON

c. GLENDENNING,

CHARLES
CF.Cl!.

E. NEAL,

c. SCHULZE,
Committee,

Attendance ..... :.....................:................28
· Co-Ordinate ~asonry ·············:··········35
Cornerstones ········'····························-···28
Cyphers ..................................................26
De Molay ·-····························:.... ~ ........ AO
Fees ··········'························;......... ~ ..........39
Fifty-Year Buttons .......... :.................. 25
Foreign Masonry ·························-····.24
Funerals ................................................27
Grand Lecturers .................................. 34
Grand Masters .................................... 3
Grand Orators ............,.. ;.............,......21

Historical ·...............•.......................... :...18 ·
Honorary Members ............................31
Investigating Committees ..................39
Masonic Education ........................... .'16
Masonic Hornes ..............•.................... .29
Membership ·········'································ 8
Miscellaneous ............................ :...........32
Patriotism ..............................................35
Washington Memorial ...................... 12
War Activities ·········-·····················--.13
War Relief ..........................................29

PERTINENT PASSAGES FROM THE MOUTHS
OF GRAND MASTERS
Washington, 1941
A year ago I said to you, and I say to you again today, that I have no
program of legislative reform, and no changes to suggest in the standard
· work. That is neither because I regard either the code or the standard work
as perfect, but because it has seemed to me that we have too often spent the
all too short· period of our annual communication hotly debating the
minutiae and detail of Masonry to the neglect of matters of greater concern.
For example, we could spend a day debating whether some change should
be made in the code which would make available as material forty or fifty
men not now eligible to petition for the degrees, when our time might much
better be employed in trying to solve the problem of why more than 10,000
brothers, who have petitioned for the degrees and received 'them, haven't
found enough of interest in what Masonry has to give them to attend Lodge
at .any time during the past year. That is to me a much more emergent
problem, ·and it isn't going to be solved by legislation, but rather by giving
to our Masonry the vitality and the power that influences the lives and
character of men.
New Mexico, 1941
He worships God in the fashion of his choice. He belongs to such
fraternal orders of his choice with the privilege of thinking, speaking as his
conscience dictates.
He has his troubles, but his principal struggle should be to preserve
this Nation, with its priceless privile'ges. He is a most fortunate man-he
is an American.
We as Masons should weigh these statements and determine the full
value of all of them.
Each Masonic Lodge is a cross section of the best there is in its
respective jurisdiction. In each Lodge I have visited in the several jurisdictions, as well as our own, similar keen visaged brethren look down upon
us with apparent satisfaction. In each Lodge, workmen, my brethren, do
their share and· the similarity is again striking. Our landmarks make them
thus. · Our laws, rules and regulations, coupled with that resulting 'harmony
and good fellowship garnered from nature's own garden reveals that
priceless untrammeled reward of "this friendship of his fellowmen." Let
us preserve that great heritage that cost our forebears so many hardships
that we may enjoy a better life. Our Masonic temples are naught if
Masonry is not at work within.
Nevada, 1941
The fate of the Fraternity in Spain, Italy and Gennany, where the Craft

440

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

has been ruthlessly proscribed and its members impri~oned, and in some
cases murdered, gives rise to the thought that Freemasonry may not survive
the storm of unrest that is agitating the world today.
Masonry will survive as long as democracy survives. If ever democracy
is banished from the world then the death knell of Masonrv will sound also.
Our Craf~ is the child of democracy; it teaches brothe~hood, fraternity,
freedom; 1t advocates the gentler virtues. That being so, it is abhorred of
dictators; whose suprem·acy is based upon the virtual enslavement of the
peoples whom they rule with iron hands. Masonry was banished in
· Germany and Italy because the dictator regime will not allow, dare not
allow, those who writhe under its regulations any allegiance with or interest
in any organization that is not directly headed by the dictator, and whose
activities are inspired by the species of tin God that presides over the
national destiny. ·Dictators realize only too well the insecurity of their
position. Loud though they may beat their drums, rattle their sabres, voice
their threats, they invariably sit upon powder magazines of suppressed
public opinion. They maintain their positions only through intimidation and
fear; they survive only as long as they succeed in cowing 'the sullen millions
beneath their sway.
So the grim dictum of his own infallibility; his own supremacy,· must
be enforced by the dictator if he is to continue to exist. There must be one
will-his, one objective--his, one master--him. There the pre'ss, the pulpit,
the thoughts of the masses must be chained. Fraternity, Fraternalism, freedom of thought, are as noxious to him, and as dangerous to his continued
existence, as anarchy is to a king.
. Though the Frat~rnity has then, of necessity, been banished from
dictator-ridden countries, it is strong, and growing stronger, in the two great
strohgholds of democracy, America and England. In these coO.ntries, where
freedom of thought and action have been preserved, Masonry thrives and
will continue to thrive.
Texas, 1941
Hist~ry is replete with the story of the world's long, bitter and slow
p_rogress m the constant battle against ignorance, superstition and oppression. Hundreds of years lie behind the destruction of a complete despotism
and of the establishing of democracy and a republican form of government.
Behind this story lies an untold number of inspiring acts of courage faith
and s~cri?ce. in connt;ction with the lives of those men who fou~ht to
establish Justice, equality and freedom for all, more particularly in our own
great Nation. And in this Nation this glorious accomplishment was realized
to a great extent through the sacrifices, courage and influence of our own
early Masonic ancestors. For these things that Freemasons have always
placed even abo-v~ life its~lf, and are now seriously and boldly challenged,
I feel that Horatius has given us the answer, as well as the inspiration for
the future: "How can a man die better than when facing fearful odds for
the ashes of his fathers and the temples of his gods?"

Utah, 1941
My. ~x?erience and observations throughout the year have deepened
~y conviction that. Freemasonry is too precious and its mission to vitally
~mportant to mankmd to be neglected. In the chaotic world of today there
is more. need .t~an ever for greater devotion to its principles and the earnest
promot10n of its welfare. Freemasonry is urriversal in its character and
acceptable to all good men regardless of race or creed. Its philosophy is
s~mndly based ?Po.n the natural rights of man: the right to be free, the
right to know Justice: and the _right to experience the love and respect of
our fellowmen; the right to thmk for ourselves and to worship according

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

441

to the dictates of our own conscience. These Masonic principles and ideals
are also the cornerstones in the foundation of our blessed republic, and I
am sure that we as Americans and as Masons fully appreciate, in these
trying times wheh tyranny and despotism are seriously t11.reatening our
every ideal in practically every quarter of the world, the importance and
necessity of carrying on our work with more patience and perseverance
than ever before, to the end that our ideals and our principles shall be
preserved, and that civil liberty and religious freedom may endure among
men and among nations. We owe it to ourselves, to our fellowmen, to God,
and to our country to cherish and protect the name of Freemasonry.
Missouri, 1941
We are living in a period of the world's history which makes those of
us who believe in morality and free government thankful that we live in
the United States of America. The Masonic Fraternity on the European
Continent has been suppressed. It has been suppressed because it stands
for freedom of thought, and freedom of expression; for government of the
people, for the people, by the people, and for freedom of worship. These
great principles were established in the United States at Philadelphia in
1787, when the Constitution of the United States was written. The Constitution, and its Bill of Rights, has been a model for free governments the
world over since that time. A large number of the framers of the Constitution of the United States were members of this great Fraternity of ours.
We are facing a solemn and serious period in our history; in fact, the
most serious emergency we have ever faced. As Freemasons we must
continually endeavor to instill appreciation of free government, and free
expression; freedom of thought and freedom of worship.
I thank God every day that I am a citizen of the greatest and freeest
country on earth, ·and that I have the privilege of worshiping as I please,
of acting with complete liberty, so long as I do not infringe upon the
rights of others, and of having the right to belong to any organization or
Fraternity I choose, so long as it does not foster treason against the
Government. We cannot really appreciate these privileges because we have
always had them. But, our Brethren in Denmark, Holland, Norway, and
all those other countries which have come under the heel of totalitarian
dictators, are either in concentration camps, or have foresworn their liberties
and their fraternal obligations.
Arizona, 1941
With the world so torn with strife let us ever remember that Craftsmen
down through the ages have endeavored to improve the lot and mode of
life of mankind, and let us re-consecrate ourselves on the Altar of Freemasonry, and ·re-dedicate our lives to the re-establishment throughout the
world of that peace and harmony which is no small part of the great purpose
and design of Masonry.
"Do not live to make a living,·
Rather live to make a life,
For the measure of succeeding
Is your service in the strife;
All that you may leave behind you,
When your soul has crossed the bay,
Is the good you've done to others
As you tarried by this way."
Kentucky, 1941
Masonry's mighty task is to keep itself strong and virile· and to join

443

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE QF CALIFORNIA

inseparable hands with that other twin giant of the modern era-the Church
of God-in helping men to keep steady before the lashings of all the tides
of time. Some day we shall need to extend helping hands across the seas,
with strong gcips, to help pull our brethren back into possession of their
institutions and their liberties.

brethren we do not need to ask ourselves, "What is wrong with Free' or "Is there
.
masonry?"
anything wrong with Freemasonry ?" I am no t a
pessimist, but I believe darker days are ahead of us. Let us meet. them
bravely and cheerfully. Let us take our places in the present conflict as
citizens and Masons should do. Let us practice friendship in and out of
our Lodges. To enjoy life one must have friends .and in ord~r to have
friends 1 one must be friendly. So then, let us be kmdly and friendly one
toward s ?J.nother and by our lives and actions make the lives of. those about
us happier and more useful. We must draw closer toge~her m brothe.rly
love than perhaps we have done. Perhaps the future happiness of mankmd
rests upon Masonry. If this is so, then upon Y';>u and I rests a gr_eat
responsibility. Let us practice kindness and generosity at every .oppo.rtumty,
·then when we present our ashlar for His judgment, He may m Hts great
mercy find in it some semblance of perfection.

442

West Virginia, 1941
Masonic Lodges, as' such, can do few things in public. Masons as
individuals are usually in the front ranks of all patriotic, civic and moral
movements, whether it be the sale of defense bonds or the entertainment of
soldiers and sailors, the raising of the levies of the American Red Cross
or those of the United Service Organization-two organizations which,
we under-stand are recognized by the War and Navy departments, while
other welfare organizations are not. Young Masons who are in the military
and naval services are, we know, good men and true. They do not need
especial coddling· to protect them from immorality and home-sickness.
Indeed, they ought to be exemplars of good conduct and steadfastness to
their comrades who have not had the advantages of the teachings they have
received in their Lodges.
As individuals, and as men who have learned in the assembly of Freemasons something of the dignity and duty of manhood, we spurn the
approach of the invading dictator as we would strike the head of the
venomous viper. Strange indeed is the soul that does not quiver in rage at
the depravities of the war across the seas. But our Lodges are places of
refuge from this fury, places for the nourishing of the sinews of moral
strength. No controversial subject can enter here, however much as individuals we may feel there can be no controversy about it. But, without
doing violence to that tradition, and in the fullest possible confidence I
declare in your presence in the most solemn manner that the Freemas~ns
of this jurisdiction will not fail God or country in this or any other crisis.
Mississippi, 1941
The vital essence of Freemasonry is that it is a brotherhood a fellowship, of free and enlightened men having its roots in the rich soil ~f intimate
acquaintanceship and association. Long before constitutions were written
or regulations were framed for the government of the craft, our ancient
brethren with uncanny wisdom rested the welfare and perpetuity of their
society upon the firm foundation of their mutual understanding and love
for one another, and across the succeeding centuries this has continued to
be the enduring basis of our fraternity. These brethren of former years
were wont to describe this relationship as the "mystic tie"-a very happy
and fascinating expression and we should continue to give it currency in our
modern Masonic language.
Alberta, 1941
One often hears the question asked, "What is wrong with Freemasonry?" In reply, I have asked the question, "Is anything wrong with
F:eemasonry?" If the Masons who ask the question, "What is wrong
with Freemasonry?" wi!l first give serious consideration to the reason why
they do . n.ot get the pleasure and satisfaction from Masonry which they
had anticipated, or had perhaps at one time enjoyed, they might be
able to find the answer. Our greatest need is not more Masons, but better
Masons-Masons who will take their vows seriously, who are willing to
work for Masonry and ask no reward save the satisfaction which comes
from the consciousn.ess in having done their part toward making this
world of ours a better and a happier place in which to live. If we do th,is,

·
Manitoba, 1941 (Deputy Grand Master):
When His Majesty the King spoke to the Empire on t~e tv:enty-fou~th
of May this year among all the splendid things that he said this one thmg
rang out: "We are fighting for our lives." Never were truer ':"ords spoken
than those which the King uttered on that momentous occ~s1on, and they
come to you and to me this afternoon, my brethren, as a direct c~allenge,
because we are the King's men. We are proud to know th~t the Kmg who
rules the Empire has, on occasions, set aside the sceptre m order to .ta~e
up the gavel and reign in a Masonic Lodge. So then we are the Kmg s
men and when he said "We are fighting for our lives,'' he was not only
thinking of the people of his great Empire; he was thinking of those free
men in every nation on the earth-those free men. whose ~reed~m had been
taken from them because of their desire to worship. God m t.hetr own way,
because of their desire as free men and Freemasons to meet m the freedom
of their Lodges. So he said "We are fighting for our lives."
When' I think of that, I know that we could not .survive a .N":zi victory.
Today I know better than that; we would not su~v1ve a Nazi v1cto~y; :ve
should die as our fathers died, for freedom, for righteousness and Justice
and truth, gladly die.
We are gathered here in this great auditorium in our hundreds, because
men are facing death that we may enjoy our fre~do~ toda;v. Those men
are the King's men, too; they are proud to serve m his service~. They are
willing to die in order that we may live to carry on the contmuance and
the expansion of the life which we val~e. They .and you. and I too, wc;>uld
rather die than lose that liberty, that priceless heritage which has been given
to us to keep, to guard, and to develop.
S.askatchewan, 1941
Brethren, it gives me great pleasure to welco~e you to this 35th Annu~l
Communication of Grand Lodge in the friendly city of Moose Jaw. In this
city four years ago you elected me to the office of Gr":nd Junior Warden,
and now, having had the distinguished honor of servmg as you~ Grand
Master for the past year, I place before you the record of my discharge
of that responsibility.
We meet again under the shadow of war-ruthless, devast~tin.g :var.
Two great principles of life and government, democracy and tota!ttariam~m,
oppose one another in an "all-out" struggle. There. can b.e no co~~rom1se.
The magnificent heroism, unflinching cdurage and mdom1table spmt of the
people of Britain and her Allies in this hour of crisis afford us an outstanding example of a faith that wi!l not "falter" and a resolution that will
not "fail" until final and complete victory is achieved.

444

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Let every Freemason at this time dedicate himself and devote his fullest
energies to the great task of "deserving victory" so that freedom and justice
may rule, with security instead of fear, and brotherhood instead of hate
filling the hearts of all men. The beautiful service in which we hav_e participated not only teaches the reverence due from the creature to the Creator
but also the privilege and duty of showing forth His glory and contributing
to the happiness of mankind.

MEMBERSHIP-REQUIREMENTS, ACTIVITIES,
INTERESTS, AND DUTIES
Indiana, 1941 (Grand Master):
Prior to our last Federal Election, I observed a notice in a newspaper
that a ladies' organization of one of our political parties was to hold a
meeting in one of our Masonic Temples at which a speaker was to be heard
on political subjects. I immediately called the Worshipful Master of the
Lodge and ordered this meeting cancelled. I was given every assurance
that my order would be obeyed and was afterwards advised by him , that
the meeting had not been held.
West Virginia, 1941 (Grand Master) :
Since Freemasonry is an unfettered organization, dedicated to freedom
of thought, word and deed, and opposed to any infraction of these liberties,
we need to grow in strength, both in numbers and in spirit, that we may
better serve our brotherhood, and, serving it; so serve humanity. There is
no ideal, no dream of true democracy, that does not embody the ideals and
purposes of our Fraternity. In the future, as in the past, "!"e will be persecuted and survive. An institution founded, as ours is, upon universal truths,
can never cease to exist, because its fundamental principles are carried and
cultivated in the heart of every true thinking man who would say, "All
men are brothers."
West Virginia, 1941 (Grand Orator) :
The great need of the day is in the field of human conduct, and
especially in the relationships between man and man and group and group.
We believe that in the long run conduct springs from internal desire rather
than external compulsion. Our task, then, is to create right desires as the
motive power for right conduct. Freemasonry has always builded in the
realm of human relationships and in the field of right desires. Freemasonry
and other groups of people of similar objectives are therefore at the very
heart of the most crucial problem in the greatest of human crises. We seek
to build upright men of sound character, industrious, self-reliant, and motivated by a self-interest that believes in trying to practice the Golden Rule.
As one of the most potent factors let us keep alive our Freemasonry.
Let us keep it strong and true and its light shining clear for, like the candle
and the lighthouse, its beam goes farther than we know.
Utah, 1941 (Grand Master):
I am happy to report that generally the condition of Freemasonry in
Utah is good. Wherever I have been on my official visitations whether in
the smaller lodges in the country or the larger lodges in the cities, I have
been greatly impressed with the fine character of the men who compose
the membership of our lodges. I can say to you with all sincerity that we
have a right to be proud of our fraternity in this state. At every visitation
we have made but one there has been a good attendance of the membership

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

445

of each lodge. I am sorry to have to report, however, that there again
appears to have been a loss in membership-a net loss of 61. At t~e same
time, the interest and enthusiasm of those carrying on the work 1s most
heartening and must inevitably result in progress. Although some of the
lodges have not done much work on candidates, still they have the real
Masonic spirit, and are hopeful of getting new members.
Virginia, 1941 (Grand Master):
.
The Grand Master, Most Worshipful Brother T. J. Traylor, after his
installation made a very thoughtful address, in which he stressed the program of education. He said:
"We have seen too many men com"e into our Lodges and, I personally
believe 1 for lack of information as to what Masonry is and what we are
t~ying to do, attend regularly for a few months and then join the ranks
of dues-paying members only."
New Mexico, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
In the Grand Master's address he reports that an outdoor Masonic
meeting was held in the open hills of Gage, New Mexico. The lodge was
opened under a special dispensation and the third degree conferred. After
the degree work was completed, several short talks were given by the
brethren. There were 130 members registered and many lodges were represented from coast to coast, especially numerous were the brethren from
jurisdictions in Texas and Arizona. A similar open air meeting was staged
in California by Canby Cross Lodge No. 679, where the third degree in
Masonry was conferred atop Prisoners Rock near Tulelake at sundown on
the evening of July 13, 1940. Thus Masonry uses some of these unusual
stunts to endeavor to create more interest in the Fraternity.
Utah, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
Although we are not as strait-laced as are some brethren on the matter
of physicai qualification, we would commend Grand Master Ogden on his
handling of the one case of discipline reported, and we very much like his
position as indicated in the words:
"As long as our law on physical qualifications remains as it is, wilful
disregard of its provisions cannot b.e ignored."
That is sound doctrine and is susceptible of application far beyond
Masonic boundaries and if executed, would be productive of highly beneficial results.
Texas, 1941 (Correspondence Committee) :
On recommendation of Grand Master (California) Grand Lodge now
declares:
" ... that the Secretary of a Lodge should be permitted to make a
statement to a proper officer of any organization, the prerequisite for
membership therein being that a man be a Master Mason, concerning the
standing of any Mason who is a member both of his Lodge and of such
organization."
Some departure from the one time secrecy of Lodge records! Time
was, when engaged in character building, the supporting arm of Lodge discipline was thrown around a "falling brother," not infrequent_ly with reclaiming effect. What now, since all such procedure is to be heralded to
the vast number of such organizations composed most largely of women,
boys and girls, together with "chums" with no sort of Masonic relationship?
Washington, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
So often the average Mason looks upon his Lodge ;tS a club or as a

446

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

place primarily intended for brotherly companionship. Masonry is, of
course, that, but over and above and beyond that is the philosophy of life
which it teaches. We have always felt that Freemasonry with its tenets,
its philosophy and its program, · is a place to go to school and learn how
to live. Brother Battye's analysis (\Vest Australia) makes a complete
picture. He has our personal thanks.

· A few months ago, as individual citizens and Freemasons, we could
differ on questions of international policy. Now the debate is over. The
government under whose protection we live is engaged in a titanic struggle
that cannot cease until it ends in victory for the principles of democracy
and liberty. Now, as individual Freemasons, in demonstrating our allegiance
to t!'iat government, we must have the fortitude to make every necessary
sacrifice.
We cannot all bear arms, and we cannot all share the hardships and
horrors of actual . conflict; but we can all help to fight the battles for the
survival of brotherhood and freedom by doing our utmost to uphold and
strengthen our National Government in the present crisis.

Washington, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
Under the head, "Conference of Grand Masters," the Grand Master
(Indiana) sets forth his carefully prepared paper on the question of who
should be the final judge of a candidate's physical qualifications-the local
Lodge, the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master. He took the position that
lndiana's rule where the final decision is up to the Grand Master was the
best. Our jurisdiction's rule reads as follows:
"The Lodge shall itself determine the petitioner's physical qualifications, by the sole test of whether any maim or defect in his body renders
him incapable of conforming literally to what the several degrees require
of him."
Wyoming, 1941 (Grand Master):
Question: We have an application for membership from a good man
who is physically disabled, permanently. He has no use whatever of his
right arm other than with the help of the other arm. Of course, it is possible for him to place himself in position to take the work, but would not
be possible to give the signs properly. Is there anything in our laws to
prohibit him of becoming a Mason? He has all the other qualifications and
I feel he wculd be a good member and will get a lot of good out of Masonry.
Answer: I refer you to Section 435, Paragraph ( d), of the code, but by
the decision of the Jurisprudence Committee in 1935, I think they give the
Master of the Lodge a great deal of room to admit those who are not in
absolute physical condition, therefore, I would raise no objection if you
were to receive this petition and act favorabl~ thereon. But you know that
the Worshipful Master of the Lodge is the final person to decide these
matters. (Approved.)
Calgary, 1941 (Grand Master):
A Masonic Lodge can and shquld be a factor in the ·life of its community, not through any concerted action on the part of the Lod~e itself,
but rather through the exemplary conduct of its members. The Institution
as a whole is often judged by the actions of an individual, and when we
assume the obligations of a Mason, we are responsible not to ourselves
alone, but to those Brethren with whom we are associated.
Our greatest need is not more Masons, but better Masons-Masons
who will take their vows seriously, who are willing to work for Masonry and
ask no reward save the satisfaction which comes from the consciousness in
having done their part towards making this world of ours a better and
a happier place in which to live.
Kansas, 1941 (Grand Master):
During the dark days of the Civil War, M. W. Jacob Saqui, in his
address as Grand Master, said : "Obedience to the government is, and ever ·
has been , the duty of Masons, and it should be our pleasure1 as it
undoubtedly is to our interest, to comply with the injunctions of this
cardinal principle." These words are as true today as they were when they
were spoken eighty years ago.

447

Louisiana, 1941 (Proceedings):
. To Confer Two or More Degrees on Same · Candidate at One and the
Same Communication: Since a precedent has been set by the Grand
Masters who served during the first World War of 1917-18, and since we
have been at war, I have granted dispensations to confer E. A., F. C., and
M. M. Degrees at one and the same communication .in cases where the
petitioner had left, or was about to leave, to enter the service of his country;
all three degrees to be conferred only after the candidate's petition had taken
its regular course, that is-investigating committee appointed and petition
lay over its regular four weeks.
Louisiana, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
The United Grand Lodge of England is now the largest in the world
with 5,184 Lodges and more than 400,000 members. There has been an
increase in the number of Lodges every year since 1930. In that year, there
were 4,622 and in 1940 5,184 Lodges.
The great growth in recent years of Masonry in England has been due
to the policy of encouraging a large number of Lodges with a limited
membership of from 70 to 100.
This policy has been found very effective in building up the Lodges by
placing many in the larger cities within a comparatively small territory.
As a result, the members know each other and a spirit of acquaintance
and ·friendship has been easily built up.
In Lodges of this siZe there is good scope for promotion and ambitious
members have a chance of getting through the chairs.
Another reason for the large increase in numbers is the fact that the
United Grand Lodge of England discourages the formation of other socalled Masonic bodies-that is, above the Mark and Royal Arch-and, in
consequence members do not have their interest divided or face an accumulated financial obligation, but give their full attention and zeal to the
Craft.
South Carolina, 1941 (Grand Master):
I have given a number of dispensations mainly to permit more than
five candidates to receive Degrees on one evening. These are on record in
the office of the Gr.and Secretary. A number were also given to shorten the
time, statutory, between degrees. Most of these two types were given
to allow the candidates to enter the armed forces of the U. S. as Master
Masons. I considere<l it was far better for them to enter as such rather
than to enter only having one or two degrees.
Utah, 1941 (Grand Orator):
What is required to make good Masonic workers and strong leaders
who, in turn, create strong Lodges? Is it genius or work? Do we need

448

PROCEEDJ,NGS OF THE

Masons with exceptional abilities and personalities, or brethren with normal
ability who will lay aside their apathetical inclination, roll up their sleeves
and use the ability they possess for the benefit of the craft? The answer is
obvious.
Three of the many elements that will make any Lodge, small or large,
a solid and substantial unit, when coupled with workers, are lodge training
for leadership, educational programs of merit, and proper Masonic training
.for initiates and younger members.
Washington, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
The Grand Secretary of North Dakota, writing a report, said:
"If the English-speaking nations ·go down, Freemasonry goes out
forever."
Freemasonry as .an organization probably would. Freemasonry as a
program and a belief and a philosophy of living would still remain in the
hearts of its votaries.
Idaho, 1941 (Grand Orator):
What can Masonry do about making democracy function? I have tried
to point it out to you. Allegiance to the Constitution and institutions and
to guard against subversive activities and never lose sight of allegiance
to our country. We must think-we don't do enough in these United States
of ours.

WASHINGTON MEMORIAL
Utah, 1941 (Grand Master):
Saturday morning, February 22, we attended the George Washington
Masonic National Memorial meeting held in the George Washington Memorial building at Alexandria. It was most impressive and "touching," for that
is the place where they take the checks on per capita tax for the erection and
completion of that wonderful building· which will ere long be finished. We
were told that the next room to be finished is what they call the Blue Room,
where many of the relics now in the lodge room at Alexandria wm be
placed. We had lunch in one of the picturesque old hotels in Alexandria,
where the waitresses were all dressed in Colonial dresses.
After lunch, we went to Mt. Vernon where a wreath of flowers was
placed on Washington's tomb. A very befitting address for the occasion
was delivered by the Grand Master of California.
Idaho, 1941 (Grand Master):
On February 22, 1941, I attended the meeting of the Association which
was held in the Memorial in Alexandria, Virginia. At the request of the
President, Brother Arn of Ohio, Rev. Brother C. Cooper Bell offered an
invocation.
Construction on the building had been stopped for some time, but with
contributions this year and money on hand it was expeeted that they would
be able to finish at least two more rooms this year, one to house the relics
from the Alexandria Lodge Temple, also the Blue Room to be used for
Lodge meetings.
·
Fellow Masons, we have a job. Let's complete it.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

449

WAR ACTIVITIES
Massachusetts, 1941 (Grand Master):
Since December 27th last I have attended some sixty odd Masonic
gatherings. To me these opportunities to meet and mingle with the
Brethren have been particularly pleasing. Especially have they enabled me
to learn first hand the thoughts and desires Masonically of the officers and
Brethren in all parts of our Jurisdiction. Foremost in the minds of all are
the problems arising out of the present world conditions. Wherever I
have gone I, have found a genuine effort to determine what assistance may
be needed and a laudable desire to render such assistance within the capabilities of the Craft generally. There has been not so much a necessity to
arouse enthusiasm as to direct contemplated efforts in the right direction.
In the first World War fifty per cent or more of the officers and ten
per cent or more of the enlisted men or draftees were Masons. In addition,
their blood relatives constituted another ten to fifteen per cent of the armed
forces. Approximately twenty-four per cent of all the men engaged in one
way or another in the World War were members of the Craft. Whether
that percentage will hold today it is impossible to say, but we do know
that numerically there are about thirty per cent more Masons in Massachusetts at the present time than in 1916, and our national population has
not grown as fast.
Much adverse criticism was heaped upon the Craft generally in the
last war because of the failure to render Masonic service to the enlisted
and drafted men. I am not sure that such . criticism was always deserved or
that the failure, i{ such it was, was in fact as harmful to the Fraternity as
is currently assumed. Surely the tremendous growth during the war years
and directly thereafter would not indicate that the Fraternity had lost
prestige. Nevertheless it is everywhere agreed, first, that there is a real
need for services which shall sustain morale within and without the borders
of the camps, forts and other training areas, and second, that Freemasonry
can satisfy that need to an appreciab.Je extent. There is not, however, the
same unanimity of opinion as to the exact type of service which may be
needed.
Mississippi, 1941 (Grand Master):
I have given a great deal of thought to the question of how the Masons
may best serve their brethren in our military establishments. Events of
the past two years have pressed this problem upon the attention of the
leaders of the Craft. It was brought home to me and to the Masons of
Hattiesburg in a very forceful manner with the location of Camp Shelby
near Hattiesburg about 18 months ago. This was one of the first camps
to be put in condition for the reception of soldiers and they began to come
in large numbers, particularly from the state of Ohio in the fall of 1940.
We organized a. committee and went out to the camp soon after the 37th
(Ohio) Division came in and began to inquire as to who were Masons and
to our very pleasant surprise we found that the Commanding General and
practically every member of his staff and a large number of officers and
a goodly company of men belonged to our fraternity. These initial meetings
resulted in these brethren accepting our invitation to come to our Masonic
Temple in Hattiesburg, first to a supper, and then to other meetings and
to the conferring of Degrees. We soon formed a warm attachment for
these brethren from Ohio and our fellowship with them has been very
delightful. We have arranged during the subsequent months several affairs
for these brethren and also for others who came in from other ~tates,

450

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

particularly from Indiana, Kentucky, West Virginia, Pennsylvania apd
New York.
Utah, 1941 (Grand Master):
We all recall our feeling of dissatisfaction during and after the last
World War with Masonry's part in the organ.i zed activities carried on for
the benefit of our soldiers and sailors both at home and abroad; and the
only way to avoid a repetition of this experience during the present
emergency is to act now whil!! the opportunity is here. As already stated,
the Masonic Service Association, of which this Grand Lodge is a member,
has set up organizations for and is now actively engaged in maintaining
Masonic centers near a number of the larger camps in the 'eastern and
southern States, and we have been invited to support this work by a contribution of at least ten cents per capita, which would amount to about
$450.00.
I cannot feel, however, that this alone is all we should attempt, nor
do I feel that we can or should meet the requirements of a reasonable
program in this direction by appropriations from either o ur individual lodge
treasuries or the treasury of the Grand Lodge which can ill afford further
depletion than our annual operating deficits have made necessary. This is
a program that appeals both to our patriotism and to our feeling of
Masonic brotherhood, and I feel that every Mason in Utah will want and
should have an opportunity to contribute to this cause as freely and as much
as he may desire or as his circumstances will permit. Furthermore, in view
of our limited numbers, if we are to do anything here at home, which I
most definitely feel should come before anything is sent out to support
activities elsewhere, we· must ·ask all who can give, not to limit themselves
to a fixed per capita amount but to give as much more as the worth of
the cause may move them to do. I; therefore suggest that we take action
at this time to raise a fund by .voluntary subscription open to all Masons
of Utah and to be called to their attention by means of uniform notices
sent out by the lodge Secretaries, which fund will be held in the treasury
of the Grand Lodge and expended under direction of the Grand Master both
in direct activities in this State along the lines indicated and in contributing
to the activities in this direction of the Masonic Service Assocation to such
extent as may be decided upon at this session of Grand Lodge.
Kentucky, 1941 (Grand Master):
Much discussion has come on welfare work by Masons in the camps
of our country. The Grand Lodge of Kentucky was, I think, just as much
interested as is any other Grand Jurisdiction, in this ·work. But, when,
in March, 1941, Brother Orton and I were guests of the National
Sojourners' Club, Fort Knox, Kentucky, we talked extensively with Captain
Halstead and several other officers. They stated that the men did not need
welfare work and recreation-that the Federal Government furnished that.
They indicated that what the Masons in the armed forces wanted most
was the privilege of attending our lodges occasionally, and I assured them
that they had that now.
South Carolina, 1941 (Grand Master) :
I recommend that in order to do our full share in the work of the
Masonic Service Association in its many services rendered to the Masons
in the many camps situated all over this country every Mason in South
Carolina contribute forty cents each to a fund to be raised to build more
centers and to adequately take care of those already in existence. We must
remember that the first of. these centers was opened in Columbia in our

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

451

own state and that this has accomplished much in behalf of those men
at Fort Jackson. Our Grand Lodge stands high in service and reputation
in this country, and
can not afford to allow it to fail in its duty..Th!s
is a most important matter, and I urge your prompt and enthusiastic
attention to this opportunity to render real Masonic service to our brethren
in uniform.

we

Tennessee, 1941 (Grand Master):
We have given careful consideration to the so-called Masonic welfare
work among the armed forces, and have concluded that since there is no
unified program, we should endeavor to procure a list o~ all of our members
who are serving in the armed forces, have them contacted by the Lodge
nearest their camp or base, and have such fraternal courtesies as are possible
extended to them. Each Lodge has been requested to furnish the Grand
Secretary the names and complete addresses of such members as are in
the service, and we have been surprised at the small number of names
reported. A total of 170 names have been reported, of whom 72 are commissioned officers. These men are stationed in at least twenty other Grand
Jurisdictions. The names of those outside Tennessee have been furnished
the Grand Secretaries of the respective states in which they are stationed,
and we have been assured that all of our members will be contacted and
given a cordial invitation to attend the meetings and other Masonic activities
of the Lodges nearest them.
Tennessee, 1941 (Jurisprudence Committee) :
Although, as a peace loving brotherhood, we deplore the fact ~f wa~,
and the grim necessity that has been thrust upon us, we feel that, m t.h1s
time of national crisis when thousands of our young men are freely offenng
their lives upon the altar of our Country, it behooves us as 'individual
Masons and as a Grand Lodge, to make a positive and aggressive contribution to the morale, the happiness, and the material welfare of our armed
forces.
·
We therefore recommend that the Grand Lodge, during t,he present
hostilities waive the payment of annual Grand Lodge per capita tax on
those bre~hren serving in the armed forces of the United States whose
annual dues are remitted in full by their respective Lodges.
We appeal to all Masons and to all Subordinate Lodges throughout our .
great State to render every possible service for the defense of our Country,
the fostering of our cherished lll6titutions, and the preservation of the
ideals and principles of Freemasonry.
Florida, 1941 (Grand Master):
I r ecommend that members of particular Lodges in Florida who are
in the armed forces of the U.S.A., and receiving less than $50.00 per month
in salary, and while the United States of America is engaged in war, shall
be exempt from Grand Lodge per capita assessment, provided, that the
particular Lodges, of which they may be members, take similar action,
notifying the Grand Secretary of such action.
Maryland, 1941:
The Grand Master in his message called attention to the activities of
the Masonic Service Association in its efforts to act as the representative of
all of the American Jurisdictions in so-called "Welfare Work" in connection
with the various army cantonments throughout the country. He favored
the idea of locating Masonic Service Clubs outside the military reservation
wherever one was needed and felt that the estimated cost of 10 cents per

452

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

capita would be s11fficient. He felt that $250,000, could easily be raised, and,
from his tone it would appear that he felt that this would suffice. The
Oregon Correspondence Chairman questions this and hopes that Masonry
in an excess of zeal does not enter into an activity that in the end will
prove an excessive financial burden, be a duplication of service already
supplied and result in the Fraternity being discredited in the eyes of the
profane owing to its inability to carry the matter to a full conclusion. The
amount suggested as sufficient would in our opinion be a mere fraction of
what will be necessary to adequately put the scheme in operation unless
the plan is to only place it in operation in a few of the largest cantonments.

MASONIC EDUCATION
New Mexico, 1941 (Proceedings):
Perhaps .the world today faces a cns1s such as has never confronted
it before. Mankind has ever suffered from the mental, moral, and physical
devastations of wars caused by the greed of rapacious rulers, but during
those years, despite adversity, tire' peoples of the earth were slo~ly progressing in their building of a better and happier world where man might
live. Now, however, we see all 1nations welding together the skill and labor
of their peoples into an awful· effort directed solely toward the destruction
of each other.
Such chaotic conditions naturally produce unrest, impatience, and
intolerance. Institutions that once were sacred, are no longer respected, and
soon may not be tolerated. Only such organizations that definitely contribute some valuable service will survive. Churches as well as fraternal
organizations have sensed this trend and are redoubling their efforts to be
of active service.
Freemasonry· cannot be offered as a substitute for religion, but it is a
solid rock of fundamental truth where all men may meet and work with
common understanding and sympathy. It has been the hope of this committee tha,t it might help Lodges bring Freemasonry into the every-day
lives of their members. Too often it seems that our Masonic teachings are
folded away with the aprons when the Master's gavel sounds the closing of
Lodge, not to be used, nor thought of, until the next regular meeting.
Massachusetts, 1941 (Grand Master):
The primary purpose of our Lodge~ of Instruction has been and still is
to give candidates instruction beyond the ritual, so that in 'the years to
come, the Brethren charged to carry on will have had more Masonic knowledge than their forebears. However, the active interest taken by the
older membe:s has been so pr.onounced that programs. of generJJ.l interest
are now P,rov1ded as well as specific instruction for the candidates. We have
a. speakers list comprising about two hundred Masons well qualified to
speak on a wide range of Masonic subjects who · give their time and effort
without fees of any kind to this worthy cause.
Utah, 1941 · (Grand Master):
The average attendance at Lodge meetings declined 4% and the educational average declined 3.6% below that of the previous year.
.
Du.ring t?~ Grand Lodge year just passed (1940-41), our country's
1~dus~nal ac.t1v1ty has av~raged approximately that of 1937-the previous
high mdustnal year. Durmg 1937 our Lodge educational activity declined
13% below that of 1936.
In September last, this condition was anticipated. Now, we wish to say

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

453

that the Masters and Chairmen of our Lodges generally have done a
splendid job this year in maintaining such a high average educational record
in spite of the handicap imposed by increased business activity. (But 8
additional papers on Masonic subjects prepared by members of the local
Lodge would have brought this year's average up· to last year's. It is a
sensitive account.)
·
Washington, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
The Masonic Research and Education Committee (Manitoba) states
two basic facts: first, it says the stability of our society depends upon the
ind!vid~al loyalty of its members; and, second, it believes that loyalty may
be msp1red by example and held through knowledge, but it must come from
the individual himself. It concludes in two sentences this writer's theory
of Masonic education. We quote:
"We urge our candidates to consider themselves called upon to make
daily advancement in Masonic knowledge. It is our duty therefore to make
easily available the means by which they can acquir~ that kn~wledge."
We have long felt that Masonic education should proceed upon the
theory of individual effort. The individual acquires Masonic knowledge
through his own efforts, and if a program is before him which enables him
to search for himself, results will be amazing if the individual is sufficiently
interested to search.
Georgia, 1941 (Grand Master):
. In our jouri:ieyings in and through our District we have been impressed
with the necessity for some sort of program affording Masonic education
?f the most basic type. We heartily recommend to the Grand Lodge this
important matter of teaching the candidates not only the ritual but to teach
the new Mason something of the everyday things of Masonic custom and
law. We feel that we lose many new members as well as old through their
lack of understanding and ·knowledge of the every-day rules and features of
M~s?i:iry. Members~ip in the M~sonic Service Association will provide the
fac1ht1es to accomplish a splendid education program most economically.
Saskatchewan, 1941 (Committee):
We believe in Masonic Education. The W.M. is enjoined to "employ
and instruct his Brethren in Masonry." In the General Charge of the
c;erem~ny of Installation, we are told that "Masonry inculcates the principles of purest mor.ality, . tho~gh veiled in allegory and illustrated by
symbols. To draw aside this veil, therefore, or more properly speaking to
penet~ate throu~hout it, is the object of rulers of Freemasonry." We belleve
there ts a need m our Lodges for the understanding and appreciation of the
fundamentals of Masonry. To meet that need is the object of this Committee on Masonic Education.
The only question in our minds on this matter is "What is the best
way. to further Masonic Education in our Lodges?" Perhaps some of our
outlines. are too comprehensive and not elementary enough. Practical
suggestlo?s fr~ri:i .the M.W. the Grand Lodge regarding future policy and
constructive cnttc1sm of our work would be appreciated we are sure by this
or by any other Committee appointed by the M.W. th~ Grand Ma;ter:
On reviewing the subject matter prepared by your Committees from
192? to the present,, we cannot refrain from observing that there is a
veritable referen~e hbl'.ary on the symbolism, philosophy and history of
Masonry ~t the disposal. of our Lodges. May we emphasize the importance
of ~reservmg ~hese outlmes? They should be filed in book form in chronological or subject order for future use.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

454

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

British Columbia 1941 (Grand Master):
.
d
t
'
. .
the benefits of its en eavor o
Grand Lodge is now begmnmg \o. r~~fc form of education. More and
enlighten its members throu~h a s~s e~o discover for themselves what
more are the me~be!s ~n eavo.nnf ends its jurisprudence, its symbols.
Freemasonry really is, its hist<_>ry, its eg
' and it is a real source of
Practically every lodge has ~ts st~~y l gr~~Pin this worthy endeavor.
satisfaction to see the enthusiasm 1sp ay
f J ..
elected R W Brother Dr. Brown to the office o. umor
When you
. .
r d of the chairmanship of this board,
Grand Warden, he .a~k~~ t? ~~ re :~v~imself and credit to our fraternity,
which he served wit
istl.nc !On
' inted Wor. Brother G. Roy
I reluctantly acceded to his ~equ~s~hi! ~~~~d for a number of years, to
Long, who has been. a mem er o nt of Freemasonry and a gifted orator
fill the vacancy. He IS a hkeen ~tud~· le dership the w~rk will not diminish.
and "'.e can rest assuret!r:to~n hf; c~m~ittee I tender my thanks for the
are continuing this important and necessary work.

~~e~~~ :~n~~~ ~:;

Utah 1941 (Correspondence Committee):

f_av~rably.

.

Califort~i='~hi~f~~fueS~~~~::

We have been
impressed by
Week activities s_ince itsdmceptlon. Wd et~a;: ~~:na~:ention of communities,
1
b
. h .
"d t
ce that t serve to turn an
.
for building character operating m t eir m1 s .
o serv~n
for a time, on this agency ,
'f .
. well taken . that there should be
We think the Grand Master~ cn.~c!sr;1 !s of what is taught and by whom.

~~:~::f d:a~da~~. ~~fseri~t~~~ ~~st vital par.t,. the par: ~at ~o~~. definitely
1

touches ~pon the character of the future citizenry o

menca .

HISTORICAL
Washington, 1941 (Proceedings):

·

.

Research

~~1.:£0%%~~~~rr~~1~:f~:~~::~~r~~:i~;l:~.::::q~~~~.~;'~;
Index to the Papers and Essays of the Quatuor

orona t

o

.

Utah 1941 (Grand Master):
· h I
There is one other item of historic interest a_nd value a~ou~ ~b1c .
. h to say a few words This is a cloth-bound, illustrated oo o some

f~~~e~~e~~ao1i::.s~~~~~~:~tt~cef~:5~~'.~hse~~~~e~:!~.; ~~r0~I ·7r?t~:~h!~~~~

·
• E
Masonic Fraud; A Study m
an es me a 0
and recites
of Utah's brilliant lawyers-our late Brother Isaac Bl~ir vans-;the story of a counterfeit Masonry, born in a neighb~[1fg s~ate, mcor~o~:t~~
there and developed to a point which see~ed to c~ or t e re1:1o~ake and
headquart7rs to a larger ~en~er of po~ul.~~1.on.J~s~t t~a~eatobt~~ from the
presently 1t was housed m its own m mg
·
S
h
"t
Masonic Temple corner of 1st South and Second East treet-w. ere .1 .
blished a monthly magazine and carried on its fraudulent operation~ ~n
State and by means of paid solicitors, in several other commonwea t s
and on both coasts.
.
. .
The success of this venture led its originator b~yond the hm1ts
prescribed by caution and to carry on as thou~h he were t~mune fr~m · a~y
successful opposition, while he boldly proclaimed that h!~· wfs,,t e ~? Y
true Masonry ·and that regular Masons were merely
oca s, 1ac mg
authority to do Masonic work.

f~is

455

These activities finally attracted the attention of Uncle Sam and to one
of his high-ranking Post Office Inspectors was assigned the task of investigating Thomson's use of the mails in disseminating his .false claims. This
work began in 1915 but was suspended later because the Inspector was
needed for more pressing duties, but it was resumed soon after the close of
the World War and relentlessly pursued to a successful conclusion.
Washington, 1941 (Proceedings):
A very interesting and informative paper on "The Genealogy of the
Grand Lodge of Washington," by Brother Howard A. Hanson, Worshipful
Master of Research Lodge No. 281, and Grand Historian of Grand Lodge
of Washington, was presented for inclusion in the record. This paper is
well prepared and will well repay any student . of Masonry for the time
expended in studying same. The following are excerpts:
The California Line of Ancestry. We have traced the genealogy of
the Grand Lodge of Washington through the Missouri line of ancestry back
to the Grand Lodge of England. We shall now consider the California
line. The Lodges participating in the formation of the Grand Lodge of
California held charters or dispensations from the Grand Lodges of the
District of Columbia, Missouri, Connecticut, New Jersey and Louisiana.
Thus, the California line, since it traces through Missouri, in reality
includes the Missouri line as well. But, in addition to the Grand Lodges
in the Missouri line, the California line traces through the Grand Lodges
of California, the District of Columbia, Connecticut, New Jersey, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Kentucky, Maryland, Virginia, Massachusetts, New York, South
Carolina, Pennsylvania and to all five of the Mother Grand Lodges: The
Grand Lodge of Washington, therefore, enjoys the distinction of being
directly related to seventeen American . Grand Jurisdictions and five
European Mother Grand Lodges.
Peter Lassen and the Second Pacific Coast Charter. The second
Pacific Coast charter was granted, May 10, 1848, by the Grand Lodge of
Missouri, for Western Star Lodge, No. 98, at Benton City, California. Its
first Junior Warden was Peter Lassen, whose name is perpetuated in Mount
Lassen, Mount Lassen National Park and Lassen County, California. The
Lodge is now known as Western Star Lodge, No. 2, and is located at Shasta.
The Grand Lodge of California apparently considered seniority of
Lodges on the basis of their first meetings, rather than the dates of their
charters, as appears from the following letter from the late Brother John
Whicher, Grand Secretary:
"The first recorded meeting of a Lodge of Masons in California was
that of California Lodge, No. 13, of the District of Columbia (now No. I)
which met in San Francisco, Thursday evening, October 7, 1849. The
charter was dated November 9, 1848."
Maryland, 1941 (Proceedings):
Exact history, of necessity, must be based upon facts supported by
reasonably accurate evidence; nevertheless, without violating any of the
rules of exact history, we are now justified in expressing the belief that
there were Masonic Lodges in Maryland as early as 1729, so long as we
express it as a belief and not as a proven fact.
On September 18 of this year, while we were examining the records and
returns of .the old Baltimore Union Lodge No. 21, now on file in the Grand
Lodge archives at Richmond, we discovered a doc.ument.
At the top of this document appears the following heading: "A true
Copy of the Warrant of the Lodge No. 15 held upon Fells Point."

456

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Then follows an exact hand-written copy of the original Charter,
issued June 28, 1770, by the Provincial Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, for
old Lodge No. 15-now Washington Lodge No. 3.
On the reverse side of this document is an endorsement of a most
unusual and revealing nature. It is no less than a Dispensation issued by
the officers and Past Masters of Lodge No. 15, to Robert Stewart, Thomas
Constable, and Hugh Stewart, "with any other Officers and Brethren ~hat
they may approve of, to Hold a Lodge of Free and Accepted Ancient
York Masons" in Baltimore, "under the Title of a Branch of No. 15,"
until they could "obtain a Warrant properly Authenticated and duly
Authorized."
Manitoba, 1941 (Proceedings):
The Origin and Growth of Freemasonry. Many have been the questions that have been asked regarding the origin of Freemasonry, particularly by the younger members of our Masonic Lodges. . . . It seems
to me that all possible questions with reference to our Masonry have been
asked and "it is about time" the leaders of the order provided answers to
some of them, if Freemasonry is to survive the test which now confr<;mts it
with other institutions.
With reference to the questions that have been asked regarding the
origin of Freem.asonry-many fantastic answers have been offered, not
only by well tried and tested Freemasons, but actually in Masonic literature.
For instance, it has been suggested that Noah and his two sons were three
of the major officer·s of a Lodge. Such a claim ranks with that of a friendly
Society, that Adam was an Oddfellow. That may be true, for he was
"odd" but to lay claim that Noah and his two sons were senior officers
of a Masonic Lodge is going a little too far.
In order to emphasize its antiquity, attempts have been made to prove
that the first Masonic Lodge was formed by the first Christian British
martyr, St. Alban, in 287 A. D. Those are claims no historian would
support, knowing Masonry as you and I know it.
I repeat. that Freemasonry can stand on its own merits and needs no
false bolstering. Its origin may probably be found in the procedure and
ceremonies of the Operative Guilds of "free masons" which were organized
bodies of skilled men who worked in the various countries during the great
cathedraf~building period of the Middle Ages.
Those· old guilds were closely associated with the Christian Church,
and their a\legiance to the Church was one of their articles of faith. A great
deal of what we have become acquainted with in our Masonry is derived
from such a source. In the 17th century we find that besides operatives,
persons of aristocratic birth and social standing were admitted into those
guilds.
With the incoming of the 18th century, the movement for the centralization of the order began. Lodges were springing up here and there without
authority as there existed no Grand Lodge to grant a Charter or warrant.
So in 1717 the Grand Lodge of England came into being and that marked
the beginning of Freemasonry as you and I know it. Our rituals and
ceremonies were compiled round about the year 1700 and the genesis of
modern Masonry may be traced to the medieval building guilds.
After the creation of the Grand Lodge, Freemasonry began to expand
very rapidly. The Grand Lodge of Scotland and also the Grand Lodge of
Ireland shared in the activities which led to expansion. The first overseas
Lodge was formed.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

457

In 1730, New E_ngland with Boston as its center, was given a Provincial
Grand L?dge, and m 1733 Henry Price, the Provincial Grand Master was
very anxious to extend his Masonic dominion beyond New England. So
he reac~ed. out to th~ provinces of Canada, and founded the Lodge of
Annapolis m 1738. With Nova Scotia as the originating center Canadian
;tvf asonry steadily spread in the 18th century, though someti~es in an
irregular way. ~n New E_ngland, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Georgia
and South Carolina Masonic Lodges were well established.
W~ have in. Canada nine independent sovereign Grand Lodges, and the
Masonic order 1s now the most powerful in the Dominion. In the United
Sta~es the membersh_ip numbers are colossal. Such progress does indeed
tes~1fy to !he potential power and influence of Freemasonry, and to the
claim !h.at 1t ~akes upon English freedom-loving people, who have inherited
the s?mt of hbe.rty and the right to live in freedom. So we have in Canada
and m the United States of America today a powerful Masonic order
firmly es.tablished, that will be expected to make a great contribution to
the creation of the "new order" that we look forward to after this war.

GRAND ORATORS' TREND OF THOUGHT
Washington, 1941 (Grand Orator):
And so once more we view the wreckage and we say-"There can be
no God of love for he would not have let it happen."
My ~ro~h.ers, it is a problem in Freemasonry. It is the personal problem
of every md1v1dua! Mason. We have sworn allegiance to ancient landmarks
that affirm the existence of God. We proclaim sonship with that God and
the brotherhood of those sons. We preach equality and justice. Do we lie
to the world? Shall we abandon the landmarks?
.The an.swer is as. old as the landmarks themselves and frequently as
e.lus~ve. It 1s that behmd the stage upon which the sordid drama of human
hfe ts portrayed there is a supreme mind and power which initiates motivat~s and controls all with an ultimate eternal purpose, but a purpo~e into
which we _have thus far failed to fit ourselves. We have been in tune with
the material but out of tune with the eternal. We have not seen beyond
the stars and so we conclude that the stars constitute the ultimate In our
~ontentme.nt we fail to inquire who put them there. We see our 0 ,;n image
m the. mirror an_d. we. are content. We have abandoned morality for
humanism and spmtuahty for materiality. We have drawn the shades of
allegory and shut out the light of the symbol.
We have ~ailed to fi.t ourselves into the et~rnal and spiritual purpose.
That pu.rpose 1s not to improve the standard of living or to m ultiply the
accomphsl:iments o~ h~man ingenuity. The clergyman would express the
purpose as the ded1cat10~ of .men's lives to God and permitting God's will
to _rule on ea~th . Spea_kmg . m terms of Masonry, it is to teach mankind
universal charity conceived m the belief that all men are brothers sons of
a common Father.
'
. We have much ground to retrace before we return within sight of the
ancient landmarks. Do we still believe they are there?
It ?as been said that our nation shall become an "arsenal of democracy"
S o be it. But Masonry must become an arsenal of Faith.
·
Our faith encompasses a divine purpose. Time is not of the essence
':' e cannot hurry o~ speed up the fulfillment of the plans. T he Almight;
o.es not measure time by our standards. We cannot grasp the age of
this earth by reference to mere numbers. Let us bear in mind that this

458

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

terrestrial globe turned on its axis during a night that was millions of years
long before the dawn of conscience appeared. Sir James Jeans, the great
physicist, likens the period of that night to a pillar one hundred and fifty
feet high. The years since the dawn of conscience increase the height of
that pillar by the thickness of a twenty-five cent piece. The years from the
birth of the Teacher of Galilee until today add but the thickness of a postage
stamp. We would not test the whole by a specimen of that size and immaturity. That pillar may be thousands of feet high before the plans ·of the
Great Architect are completely fulfilled. We must be patient in our faith.
The Great Artificer has allotted millions of years for the construction of
that temple "not made with hands, eternal in the heavens." You and I will
not witness its completion.
Nevada, 1941 (Grand Orator):
It is fitting that we here today, Masons and friends, pledge anew our
fealty to our government, for we are beset by foes who would tear down
our form of government and make us serfs to a strange and dire ruler,
that once free men, can never agree with or obey. It is time we should
step forward and assert ourselves.
As our Masonic ancestors threw off the yoke of bondage; when they
went from Masonic halls to the Boston Tea Party; when they met upon
the famed Bunker Hill and traveled along the way to Lexington and Concord they did their part in life and even death for liberty, equality and the
pursuit of happiness, so it is our duty today to give our all to the preservation of our nation.
Man does not make Masonry any more than a people make a democracy, nor any more than we made America great. We did not make our
democracy nor did we make America, but America and our democracy
have made us great, and I trust, grateful as individuals and that we will
always be unselfish as a Nation. The strength of this Nation is due to the
continent of North America, it has molded us, nourished us and fed its
liberal unselfish principles into our hearts and veins, and we would not be
happy without those liberal aims protecting us. And so in the same wayif Masonry did not have unselfish, liberal aims and principles to instill into
us, then it would not have withstood the test of time.
If Masonry can hold its own in this enlightened nation of ours, all will
be well; if Masonry should fall then the nation falls too.
As Masonry was foremost in the building of this nation, so also
through its long life it has been the nation's supporter and bulwark.
Let the spirit of Washington, Lafayette, Warren, Jefferson, and all
those Masonic heroes of the past, stand beside us today and guide our
hearts and hands in the sustaining and upbuilding of a more wonderful and '
democratic America, than in turn its spirit shall succor the suffering of
the world and bring peace in a Christian manner to the down-trodden of
· the Universe.
Texas, 1941 (Grand Orator):
The foremost privilege of the citizen of the United States is that of
being able to worship his Maker in accordance with his desires in that
respect. There is no persecution for being Catholic, Protestant or Jew. We
may worship formally or informally so long as we do not interfere with the
rights of others in so doing. A strong sense of religious duty and a sincere
practicing of religious observance has always been a guarantee. that the
integrity of this nation could not be questioned by honest men. Our only
failure in this respect has been that individual citizens have taken adherence

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

459

to religious principles as a matter of fact, without heartfelt devotion to the
will of our Creator.
Illinois, 1941 (Grand Orator): .
Let us remain calm in the face of all difficulties, whether actual
or potential. Let us strive to work toward the attainment of peace and
good will on earth. Let us not turn a deaf ear to the call of ol'.r country
and let us do everything that is lasting and honorable to preserve, protect
and _defend our American institutions and the great democracy that is now
the envy of all the world. May we continue to ask for more light by
expanding the facilities that create intellectual development, and let us take
this step regardless of race or creed. May we take renewed inspiration by
the words spoken by the immortal Lincoln, Illinois' martyred and beloved
son, when he said:
"Let us then be what we are
And speak what we think,
And above all things
Keep ourselves loyal to truth."
Arkansas, 1941 (Grand Orator):
"We live in a most extraordinary age. Events so varied and so
important that they might crowd and distinguish centuries, are, in our times,
compressed within the compass of a single life." This was the utterance
of the most eloquent statesman of his day, Daniel Webster, when more
than a hundred years ago he officiated at the dedication of the Bunker Hill
monument, to review the career of the then infant republic. With how much
more justification could we emphasize at this particular instant that there
transpire so many occurrences of such cataclysmic import and of such
unpredictable consequences that we reel and stagger under the impact with
the swirling currents that rage about us. In the sphere of government, in the
realm of ·sociology, in the province of economics and industry, old land-marks
have been uprooted, traditions have been defied and defiled, viewpoints
become distorted, and the entire perspective of human beings is blurred
and obscured in the consciousness of our limitations, our frailty and our
weakness. We are in the stage where we blindly grasp for anchorage,
trusting to secure a hold on something rigid and stable, at the same time
the extended hand clutches at phantoms and wills-of-the-wisp.
It is, perhaps, accurate, if a bit discouraging, to say that those who
think profoundly to conclusions, and act on convictions, constitute but an
infinitesimal segment of the human race. A vast majority, credulous and
easily satisfied, are content to accept whatever doctrine may be hurled at
them. With the easy surrender of their responsibilities they have promptly
delivered up their inherent rights and privileges, have relinquished liberties
wrested from tyrants after generations have suffered in anguish to obtain
them. They have become ready prey for the false leaders, the opportunists
always prowling about to victimize the unthinking mobs. These same
leaders know only too well that the law of inertia applies as much to humans
as to inanimate bodies; that people float with the current with the greatest
facility.
Minnesota, 1941 (Grand Orator):
These things are the vital concern of.. every citizen, and of every Mason.
In the light of Masonic history and tradition let us return now to the
ancient landmarks. They still stand unchanged and unchange<rhle as guides
to Masonic conduct. No organization in the world has more exemplified
or prac,ticed the principles and ideals of democracy. There are nearly 31h

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

million Masons in the United States-more than % of all the Masons in the
world. It is more than significant that the greatest growth of Masonry has
been in this· great nation of democratic ideals. It was not by mere chance
that most of those men who framed our government and who pledged their
lives and sacred honor to the defense of freedom were Masons.
Masonry now faces its greatest challenge and its greatest test. It is
face to face with its greatest opportunity. Among the ancient landmarks
of Masonry are two of transcendent importance. First is its belief iii a
Supreme Being, upon whose guidance and assistance every Mason relies.
The next in importance is that obligation upon Masons to support the
moral law. There is no higher law. It is that law which enjoins equality
and fraternity; respect for the rights of free people; the right of selfgovernment; the form of government in which Masons believe-the democratic form of government. More important than any other individual right
which the moral law enjoins, is the inalienable right of the individual
citizen to work, to be the architect of his own future, and to be assured
of the blessings of liberty for himself and his posterity.

shipful ,Sydney A. White, the Grand Secretary of the United Grand Lodge
of England, a letter written from Freemason's Hall in Great Queen Street,
London, under date of January 27, 1941. This letter is more personal
perhaps than Masonic, but Most Worshipful Brother Perry has graciously
consented to my suggestion that I read to you certain portions thereof.
Very Worshipful Brother White writes:
"There is little, I expect, that I can tell you of life over here-it reaches
you almost before we ourselves know it. Some of the information you get
may be confusing, but you are able to know upon what you can rely. Of
course, times are not easy, for my part I have plenty to do and have my
work cut out tq keep current and urgent matters dealt with. War brings
its problems, some of which are not easy of solution. Our office is very
seriously depleted and that places an additional burden on those that remain
and it is not easy to get about at nights, so, much has to be condensed into
the few hours of daylight.
·
"Our Lodges, a little disorganized in some areas four months ago, are
getting into their stride again, but of course the attendances are smaller.
They put up with all sorts of difficulties in the determination to keep things
going. You cannot realize what those occasional meetings mean to the
members-they are experiences which are worth while."
"I wish I had time to tell you of many incidents which arise, they give
a better conception of our lives, but there is little time, as I have said, to do
anything but what we have to do . . ."
It is not without significance that the general sentiment was very
much in favor of a concentrated effort by Masons for Masons, and along
Masonic lines. It was felt that the other civic organizations, especially the
U. S. 0., were providing or presently would provide ample other recreational activities such as dances, motion pictures, dramatic and similar
types of entertainment. Hence, it would free the Masonic organization for
more strictly Masonic service. To quote the words of one of the officers
present: "if the Masons can take care of their own they will be doing a
good job."

460

FOREIGN MASONRY
Washington, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
The Grand Lodge of Nicaragua requests that fraternal relations be
established with our Grand Lodge.
Upon investigation we find that this Lodge is recognized by eleven
American Grand Lodges, namely: California, Iowa, Louisiana, Nevada,
North Carolina, Ohio, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Missouri, Arizona
and Massachusetts, and that it conforms in all respects to our Code requirements. It is an independent, self-governing organization incorporated under
the laws of Nicaragua.
I, therefore, recommend that recognition be granted and that repre-.
sentatives be exchanged.
Colorado, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
·Your Committee feels now, as it has in the past, that Masonry is one
of the most powerful agencies for the development of good will between
nations. We therefore see no good reason for nonrecognition of those
foreign Grand Lodges which merit recognition, and believe the general
lack of recognition between North American Grand Bodies and South and
Central American Grand Bodies to be largely due to carelessness and lack
of attention to a matter which seems at this time to be of mounting
importance. Language differences and customs are hard to overcome, it is
true, but what is still more difficult to overcome is inertia. Since our own
North American Grand Lodges are not in need of outside support, they
are quite prone to be unmindful of the great service they may be able to
render less fortunate and less powerful Grand Bodies in less favored
localities. Yet it is these latter that are the very ones we should endeavor
to aid and support. The older and more powerful Grand Bodies .do not need
our recognition-but all of them have it. A small, struggling South or
Central American Grand Lodge, however, battling against local political
and religious antagonisms. and present day European (Nazi) propaganda,
may be much strengthened by recognition from one of the big brothers
up to the North.
Massachusetts, 1941 (Grand Master):
Recently Most Worshipful Brother Perry received from Very Wor-

461

Washington, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
The r eport of the Nova Scotia Board of ] urisprudence on Fraternal
Relations is an enlightening document. It tersely sets forth the conditions
in Europe, discusses Russia, Hungary, Turkey, Italy, Spain, Germany,
Australia, Denmark, Norway and Sweden. It concludes that in all of these
countries Masonic lights are going out. We agree that those lights arc
going out if the right to convene and hold stated meetings is meant. We
also believe that the lights of Masonry measured in the faith and belLef of
individual Masons are not going out. It is a sad picture and one in which
all of us should be concerned.
·

FIFTY-YEAR BUTTONS
Mississippi, 1941 (Grand Master):
It was under my administration that we began to make an d distribute
and present the SO year gold buttons or badges authorized by the Grand
Lodge at its last meeting to be given to our brethren with SO years Masonic
service to their credit. Up to date 42 have qualified for this distinction,
and of these I have personally had the pleasure and honor of presenting 22.
A certificate from the Grand Secretary's office and under the seal of the
Grand Lodge accompanies these buttons.

463

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Texas, 1941 (Grand Master)~
"The glory of young men is their strength; and the beauty of old men
in the grey head."-Proverbs 21-29.
·one of the most pleasant and certainly most proper recognitions of the
Grand Lodge of Texas is that which recognizes the loyalty and service of
a brother who has been a Master Mason continuously in good standing for
fifty years or more. During tl;ie year it has been my sincere pleasure to
certify to our Grand Secretary, Brother George H. Belew, who prepares the
record in the.se cases for each applicant, the brethren who were entitled to
receive one of these valuable tokens.

the ancient Fellow Craft's jewels-the attentive ear, instructive tongue and
faithful breast-as the means of transmitting unimpaired the ritual to those
who may follow us.

462

Indiana, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
Grand Lodge adopted a ceremony for presentation of the Grand Lodge
fifty-year buttons. It is worked out in detail and is splendidly written, but
we doubt the necessity for a forni.al p1·esentation. In other words, we feel
that a set program for this ceremony will take from it much of its directness
and personality.
Indiana, 1941 (Grand Master):
At the last session of Grand Lodge a resolution was presented, approved
and concurred in by the Grand Lodge that Fifty-Year Buttons should be
presented to all brethren who had attained membership of fifty years.
Each Lodge is therefor directed to forward at once to William H.
Swintz, Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, Indianapolis; Indiana, a statement of the number of brethren in good standing in their respective lodges
who have attained fifty year membership, at least ten years of which has
been acquired in an Indiana Lodge. Forms will be forward by the Grand
Secretary requiring certain information which it will be necessary to .supply.

CYPHERS .
West Virginia, 1941 (Grand Master):
The trust of preserving Ancient Craft .ritual, as it has been handed
down in America ever since the days of Thomas Smith Webb, is a continuing and exacting labor. Constant vigilance must be observed from year
to year among the lodges as the officers change, and from generation to
generation as .the faithful die.
We recognize the right of independent sovereignty of a Grand Lodge
in selecting whatever system it may choose to propagate Freemasonry
within its own territorial jurisdiction, and are aware that in some jurisdictions keys and cyphers are authorized or winked at. However, when a
Grand Lodge, after many generations, discards the indispensable landmark
of "Secrecy" in the preservation of its ritual, that action must, of necessity,
become the cause of grave concern and anxiety to those of us engaged in
the important work of teaching Masonic ritual. Dr. Albert Mackey, the
great American Masonic scholar, said: "Freemasonry, as a secret association, has lived unchanged for centuries-as an open society it would not
last for as many years." With that statement, I think, we can all agree.
There are no short cuts or primrose pathw;cys leading to the mastery
of the Masonic ritual; but I have yet to hear anyone complain of the time
consumed or effort expended in the pursuit of this worthy and commendable
enterprise.
If Freemasonry is to endure, I insist that we must guard well its ritual
-that is basic and fundamental. To do less is to invite ultimate disaster.
As for us in West Virginia, we shall continue the practice of.adhering to

Louisiana, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
A topic which is receiving attention in many jurisdictions is the question of the ritual or what we call the esoteric work. The dissemination of
the esoteric work has become such a financial burden on the craft that
many jurisdictions are resorting to many ways to relieve the fraternity of
this burden. P. G. M. Ray V . Denslow, correspondent of the Grand Lodge
of Missouri, reports some ·interesting facts in this connection which we
quote for the information of the brethren of our jurisdiction:
"Since the Masonic ritual is the framework or skeleton on which the
Masonic fraternity has been builded, a study of trends is appropriate. There
is a decided movement through the country to establish a cipher ritual.
In fact, many Grand Lodges have had these cyphers for many years. In
several jurisdictions a study of ritual is being encouraged by the granting
of proficiency certificates which, to our mind, constitutes the best of all
proposed plans. In one jurisdiction the bars have been let down by not
requiring an examination on the third degree.
"The Grand Master of Arizona believed that much of the time now
consumed in learning the ritual could be spent more constructively in
making stated meetings more enjoyable, and that 'the adoption and distribution of an initial-letter key would not only materially shorten the time
now devoted to memorization, but would result in much more uniform and
correct ritualistic work.' "
Texas, 1941 (Grand Master):
Three of our R. W. District Deputy Grand Masters have taken into
their possession three books on "Cypher" work and forwarded the same
promptly to me and I, in turn; have destroyed them. This in accordance
with Article 706. Each of these books was published twenty years ago or
longer and did not conform to the work in Texas.
I expressed my appreciation to these three R. W. brothers for their
vigilance in discovering the use of these books and the taking of the same
into their possession.
Ohio, 1941 (Grand Master):
The written ritual, received from Past Grand Master, M. W. Brother
Dillon Crist, has been used on various occasions.
The wisdo!T\ of the Grand Lodge in preparing the written ritual becomes
more evident as time goes on. It insures absolute uniformity in the work
throughout the state as well as the generations, and by consulting it, one
effectively guards against inaccuracies through the lapse of memory or time.
The ritual should have a more general use.
There is a growing tendency to form clubs by Masons employed by
firms or corporations. They organize for fellowship but specialize in conferring the Master Mason degree on fellow employees receiving the degrees.
While they show marked proficiency in the ritual; the occasion is frequently
marred by additions which are not permissible.
Section 92, Note 6, page 142 of the Code states, "Any addition to, as
well as any omissions from .the work as prescribed in the ritual by this
Grand Lodge is in violation of the resolution which enjoins conformity to
said ritual." Masters of Lodges should understand that the Grand Lodge
holds them responsible for the observance of · a strict conformity to the
ritual.. It is with that understanding that they may confer the degrees.

464

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Master):;f~~'EV7~s

Texas, 1941 (Grand
I feel that it is my duty t~ ~ise·· yo~ tpat from several sources, such
sources b.eing of ~uch a natu:e. th:lt' t~y~ <lM'ript be ign?red, th.ere is e'.'idence
of organized resistance agauisi our Lodge!#· conducting burial services. I
have found some evidence tha{ this has been communicated to widows of
deceased brethren. I ·know not the cause thereof and therefor but in this
connection I must repeat what has been said before that the poor and improper manner in which some of our brethren have conducted these last sad
rites and the small attendance on these occasions have merited for us just
criticism. These are matters that only the Lodges themselves can control
and overcome. I voice the fear that unless immediate steps are taken by
our Lodges in the two respects mentioned and probably others, a Masonic
funeral in Texas will become an exception rather than a frequent occurrence.

CORNERSTONES
Texas, 1941 (Grand Master):
Among the ancients, the cornerstones of important edifices were laid
with impressive ceremonies. These are well described by Tacitus in the
history of the rebuilding of the Roman capitol. After detailing the preliminary ceremonies, which consisted in a procession of vestals, who with
chaplets of flowers encompassed the ground and consecrated it by libations
of living water, he adds that, after solemn prayer, Helvidius, to whom the
care of rebuilding the Capitol had been committed, laid his hand upon the
fillets that adorned the foundation stone, and also the cords by which it
\Vas to be drawn to its place. In that instant the magistrates, the priests,
the senators, the Roman knights, and a number of citizens, all acting with
one effort and general demonstrations of joy, laid hold of the ropes and
dragged the ponder·ous load to its destined spot. They then threw in ingots
of gold and silver, and other metals which had never been melted in the
furnace but still retained, untouched by human art, their first formation in
the bowels of the earth!

ATTENDANCE
Utah, 1941 (Grand Master):
Greater average attendance at lodge meetings has been effected in some
lodges through an active Attendance Committee. The committee members
in one lodge has quite religiously called by phone, before each meeting, a·
list of "stay-aways." Just a pleasant invitation to come out and renew
friendships and associations has paid dividends in increased attendance and
in a few cases has forestalled a suspension.
Texas, 1941 (Grand Master):
We would suggest to the District Deputies and the Masters of our
Lodges that when a meeting is held for the purpose of receiving the Grand
Master that the program, unless otherwise suggested or requested by the
Grand Master himself, be limited to a short program and that there be but
one speaker, and that be the Grand Master. Af.ter the Grand Master has
concluded his address, there be no additional speeches. We further suggest
for the consideration of the Masters of the Lodges that some study be made
of our laws before the visit of the Grand Master with reference to article
34, page 40, Grand Lodge Laws of Texas, which sets out in detail the
.method and procedure for the receiving of the Grand Master at the time he

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

465

visits a subordinate Lodge. Further, that the same law be reviewed with
reference to the proper procedure and courtesy to be followed and shown
when other Grand Lodge Officers are present at a Lodge meeting, which
provides that the corresponding officers of the Lodge shall surrender their
seats to such other Grand Lodge Officers.

WAR RELIEF
Washington, 1941 (Proceedings):
M. W. Brother Walter F. Meier's last Masonic contribution was his
research paper on Masonic Relief-a Right or a Gratuity. His investi'gations
embraced the Grand Lodges of the United States, Canada and England.
In his summary he observed that:
"The whole problem of relief falls into two categories, current help and
old age security. Masonry, which has dealt with the problem for more
than two centuries, has adhered to the philosophy that in each category the
recipient has no legally. enforcible right, while the institution cheerfully
assumes as heavy a burden as it can. There is and must be, a relation to
the need on the one hand and the ability to afford relief on the other. The
Masonic philosophy has been developed in recognition. of. both .factors." .
Pennsylvania, 1941 (Proceedings):
The trustees of the War Relief fund of Pennsylvania, in their report
for. the fiscal year ending November 15, 1941, show investments as follows:
Mortgage bonds, $139,071.20; first mortgages, $61,837.50; bonds, $9,750.00;
real estate, $12,178.73; cash, $6,067.49, making a grand total of $228,904.93.
Net earnings for the year were apparently $7,626.42.
The War Relief Committee shows $3,920.00 relief granted to members
of sundry Lodges and their dependents. Balance in hand November 15, 1941,.
was $11,959.3L

MASONIC HOMES
Illinois, 1941 (Grand Master):
.
The Board has given considerable study to the advisability of accepting
mto the Home deserving, needy children not eligible under our present
rules. We feel we might at least accept a child on the basis of its mother's
membership in the Order of the Eastetn Star if the case is investigated and
recommend~d by a Masonic Lodge. In fact, with our splendidly equipped
plant operating at much less than half capacity, Masonry might well extend
its altruistic service to some worthy, destitute orphans now considered
entirely beyond the reach of our cable tow. Who could deny that such
charity might prove to be bread cast upon the water to be returend to us
later, many fold.

Loca~ing our grad~ates in positions and places to live, or 'obtaining
scholarships and part time employment for those who have a real desire
for further. e~ucation, i~ always a problem requiring much time and study.
In the maJonty of cases the Lodges responsible for the children being in
the Home are most cooperative in this matter, but unfortunately there are
~!ways son:e who feel that their full duty has been discharged when a child
is enrolled m the Home. When the officers of a Lodge leave this important
matter to be handled en!irely. by the Mana.gement of the Home they deny
themselves the great satisfaction of rendering personal Masonic service to
these young people.

466

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Indiana, 1941 (Grand Master):
In conformity to ancient custom in all Regular and well governed
Masonic jurisdictions, June 24th is celebrated in observance of the Festival
of St. John the Baptist. ·
St. John the Baptist, a Patron Saint of Masonry, gave his life in the
service· of humanity, endeavoring by Divine direction to call attention to
the great philosophy of the "Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of
Man." This is the basic philosophy of Masonry.
By action of the Grand Lodge in 19!6, June 24th was set apart .and
designated as Masonic Home Day.
It is fitting that my first official communication to the Craft in our
jurisdiction call attention to the opportunity afforded each Master Mason
of putting into practical effect one of the immutable laws of Freemasonry
"the greatest of these is charity."
Our Masonic Home deserves our earnest consideration and we as true
Masons cannot disregard its needs. It is the monument in our Commonwealth which is visible evidence to all beholders of what Masonry stands
for. Let our contributions be in proportion to our blessings received in
Masonry.
Indiana, 1941 (Jurisprudence Committee):
The recommendation of the Grand Master that the incoming Grand
Master be authorized by this Grand Lodge to appoint a committee whose
duty it shall be to have a motion picture made of oµr Masonic Home, such
picture to contain scenes of our grounds, buildings, school, farm and
equipment as well as the activities engaged in by our members, has been
referred to the Jurisprudence Committee.
After careful consideration and conference with the Ways and Means
Committee, the Jurisprudence Committee are of the opinion, that, in the
first place, this proposition would entail a considerable amotmt of money
in excess of $600.00 as has been suggested by the Grand Master.
Furthermore, the members of the Jurisprudence Committee are unanimo'us in the opinion that nothing should be done to disturb the sanctity
of the Masonic Home which has prevailed from the very beginning, that
the Home and its members should continue to be kept as sacred as possible
and that the old folks and the children should continue to remain dear to us.
It is our belief that a proposition of this kind, showing the members in
moving pictures throughout the State, would hurt the pride and the feelings
of our old folks considerably and would perhaps cause some unrest among
them. We believe that this proposition would not be a good thing for the
children in the Home and that later on in life this might cause some element
of embarrassment to them. This, of course, we do not desire to do. The
Masonic Home has always been sold to the members of the fraternity
throughout the State by personal visitation. We believe that this method
should continue and we do not believe that our members should be used
in moving pictures to accomplish this result.
Your Jurisprudence Committee, therefore, .recommend that this recommendation of the Grand Master be not adopted. (Concurred in by Ways
and Means Committee.)
Kentucky, 1941 (Grand Master):
The very heart and vitals; the nucleus and center; the "keystone of the
arch" of Ma·sonry in Kentucky is our homes. The well-being of the old
Masons, their widows and their children in the homes, is not only a primary
interest of all Masons..:.._it is the one thing that brings a pride to the heart
of a united fraternity.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

467

Kentucky, 1941 (Grand Master):
I reco~n:end that the Grand Lodge continue and expand its p~licy of
further ass~stlng those "wards leaving the Masonic Widows and · Orphans'
Home at sixteen but not graduated." Indications are that the number of
~hildren ~oming to the home is, at least temporarily, decreasing. Nothing
1s .more important to us than making plans for the preparation of these
children, who, beca1;1se of age limitatfons, fail to graduate. Perhaps we can
take care of these in more adequate fashion, without any addition to the
aggregate cost of maintenance of the Home.
The committee appointed pursuant to a resolution, which was approved,
that the Grand Master appoint a committee to study the costs of stereopticons to show slid~s of Masonic interest, such as scenes from the Homes,
etc., reported that inasmuch as there a,re no funds available for this purpose
at ~his time that the incoming Grand Master write an appeal to the subordinate lodges for funds to purchase said moving picture equipment.
British Columbia, 1941 (Grand Master):
It h~s be~n my happy privilege to attend most of the meetings of the
Board; in doing so my knowledge of their activities has been greatly
extended. I have seen at first hand the many problems confronting the
board: problems ~hich would be greatly reduced if the secretaries of lodges
applying for assistance would take greater care in filling out the forms
supplied for this purpose. It must be remembered the board is not interviewing applicants, its only guide is the application form, and if these are
not complete in every detail, delay and possibly disappointment result.
This board is charged with a great responsibility, possibly the greatest of
any committee in Grand Lodge. I urge on its behalf, your close co-operation
and support.
On my visitations throughout the jurisdiction, I was surprised at the
apparent lack of knowledge as to what the aims, objects and requirements
of our Benevolent Board really were, this, more particularly among the
younger members. In consequence I recommend to the board the advisability of considering the use of suitable literature, to be placed in the hands
of every new member, stressing the work Freemasonry is prepared to do
along benevolent lines, and the member's responsibility in connection
therewith.
I was pleased to issue a special warrant for $1000.00 to the trustees of
the board for the purpose of caring for evacuee children and others who
are unable to receive funds from abroad, owing to exchange regul;tions.

HONORARY MEMBERS
Missouri, 1941 (Grand Master):
The resolution to make General John J. Pershing an Honorary Member
o! this Grand Lodge was adopted by a rising vote, and I assure you it will
give your Grand Master very much pleasure to present this Honorary
Membership to General Pershing at the earliest opportunity.
In recognition of the distinguished services rendered to the government
of the United States of America, in full appreciation of his high character
and splendid ideals, and having a special pride in the fact that Missouri was
his birthplace,
Be It Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted
Masons of. the State of Missouri hereby confer the distinction of honorary
membership upon our brother, General John J. Pershing, and that our
present Grand Master visit General Pershing at the first favorable oppor-

468

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tunity, informing him in person as to 01,1r decision and extending to him
the greetings of his eighty-nine thousand brethren of the Grand Lodge of
Missouri.
Florida, 1941 (Grand Master):
One of the rare occasions in Masonry was held in Washington, D . C.,
on May 16, 1941, under the auspices of the Grand Lodge of the District of
Columbia, in which Gen. George Catlett Marshall Chief of Staff of the
United S!a!es Army, and Hon. Jesse H. Jones, S~cretary of Commerce,
and Adm1mstrator, Fetleral Loan Agency, were made Masons at sight by
~· W. Ara M. Daniels, Grand Master, District of Columbia, in an Occas10nal Lodge convened for that purpose in the Scottish Rite Cathedral.
Your Grand Master regrets that it was impossible to accept the invitation to participate in this meeting as the representative of the Grand Lodge
of Florida.

MISCELLANEOUS
Louisiana, 1941, (Grand Master):
Although prlvately owned and edited by Brother James A. Baker, as
Grand Master I was glad to contribute several articles to this new addition
to the Masonic Magazine World.
. ~ was aske.d t.o ?"ive official sanction . to the publishing of such a magazme 111 our Junsd1ctlon, which I was glad to do and I feel that it has filled
a long needed service in our Jurisdiction . .
It was. my hope that our Service Committee could eventually conduct
such a project, however, at this time with the many other problems that
.c.onfront us I thought it inadvisable to launch into this field at the present
time. However, I am glad to commend this splendid Journal to our brethren
through<!ut the entire State.
South Carolina, 1941 (Grand Master):
Probab!y the most important object which was undertaken during the
past Masomc year was the Rededication Meeting. This was a simultaneous
meeting with each Lodge in the state meeting at the same time in their own
Lodge rooms on the evening of November twelfth.
. The Service Committee had made up a most complete program with
which all of you are familiar. It consisted of· a religious and patriotic
ceremony which was most impressive. I had the unusual privilege of making
an address over a state-wide radio hookup with the idea that the talk
would go into every Lodge through radio facilities. To those Lodges who
could not get any of the stations, a copy of the talk was sent previous to the
meeting, and this was read by some brother present. We feel that according
to the. number of brethren present at the various meetings and from the
great mterest shown all over the state, that this meeting was a success
and warranted our again having these meetings in 1942; however we will
arrange, we hope, to include in the group station WBT of Chariotte and
thus give a wider circulation of the meeting and enable many more Lodges
to actively participate.
. The idea. which was originally used by the Grand Lodge of Iowa in

wh1c~ state. 1t has been a great success for several years, seems to be

~rowmg rapidly and adds much to the serious life of Masonry during these
times.
Missouri, 1941 (Past Grand Master):
This little article which I read before the dinner meeting of the denuties

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

469

appeared, I believe, i~ a recent issue of Collier's Magazine. It is he'1:ded
"Dictators vs. Masons." "Every time some new dictator blossoms mto
power, one of his first moves customarily is to declare war on the Masonic
fraternity. Why? Is there some mystic magic about the Masons that makes
them dangerous to a totalitarian society? We are afraid there is. To a
tyrant the Masons are a very subversive bunch. So is any other fraternal
order Catholic or Protestant or non-sectarian. The Masons, being the
bigge'st of such orders, are the most dangerous. Their trouble is that they
practice human brotherhood in democracy. To so high an eminence (says
an Ancient Masonic charge) has its (Freemasonry's) credit been advanced,
that in every age monarchs themselves have been promoters of the art, and ·
have not thought it derogatory to their dignity to exchange the scep~or for
the trowel; have patronized our mysteries and joined in our assembh~s. A
present-day all-highest could never do that; he must p~etend to a w1sdo~
and infallibility such as even few medieval popes ever claimed. The Masomc
idea of mutual help among the brothers, too, flies in the face of the totalitarian state's assumption that it can take care of every phase of every
citizen's life. Plenty of Masons have their faults, but by and large the big
totalitarian complaint against · them and other fraternal orders is simply
that they are decent, democratic, cooperative people. We have a notion
that the Masonic fraternity having outlasted all the storms since, by some
accounts, ancient Egyptiad time, will outride this one. Meanwhile, here
is wishing the order well." Incidentally, the writer is neither a Mason
nor trying to become one.
Wyoming, 1941 (Proceedings):
Whereas, it is with sincere regret that this Grand Lodge has learned
from our beloved Grand Secretary, Brother Joseph M. Lowndes, that he
has been compelled to decline a continuance in that office longer on account
of the condition of his health; and
Whereas he has been a most efficient and esteemed servant of the
Grand Lodg~ for the past 27 years and prior to that an assistant to 'his
predecessor; and
Whereas this Grand Lodge keenly appreciates the faithful and useful
service of B~other Lo~ndes, covering so many years and his constant
efforts for the good of the Craft;
Therefore1 Be it Resolved, that this Grand Lodge do now and hereby
express our re gret at the retirement of Brother Lowndes and our appreciation of his long and faithful service; and be it further
Resolved that this Grand Lodge do now and hereby elect Brother
Lowndes to the position of Grand Secretary Emeritus and bestow upon J;,iim
an honorarium in the form of a pension of $900.00 per year to be paid to
him in equal monthly installments from the Grand Lodge treasury so long
as he shall live.
Kentucky, 1941 (Grand Master):
I. My opinion is that the brother on the committee, who reported
unfavorably was acting thoroughly within his rights. The Book of Constitutions of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky reads: "Manufacture and Sale
of Liquors. No lodge shall receive the petition of any one who is engaged
in the manufacture or sale of spirituous, vinous or malt liquors as a
beverage. Any lodge guilty of violating this provision shall be dealt with."
(Book of Constitutions, 1940, p. 36, section 108.) One who sells whiskev
for medical purposes is not rendered ineligible by this section.

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

II. . Preston Lodge itself was culpable, if it knew that this petitioner
sold whiskey, when the petition was received. But I take it for granted
that this fact was not known, until the committee investigated.
III. No matter what the business of the petitioner is, if he sells
whiskey for other than medicinal purposes, he is ineligible even as a
petitioner.
This opinion is constitutional; and I believe it is clear.

SUGGESTIONS FROM THE GRAND LECTURERS
West Virginia, 1941 (Proceedings):
Then, occasionally we hear the statement that the Grand Lodge has
"changed" the work. That statement is made in error. It is true that
sometimes the Grand Lodge through the Grand Lecturer and Committee
on Work is obliged to correct errors that have crept into the practices of
the Lodges, b~t these corrections are always made to preserve the work,
not to change 1t.
The Grand Lecturer and Deputy Grand Lecturers are the custodians of
our ritual. Their .instructions should be followed strictly by every Lodge.
Washington, 1941 (Grand Lecturer):
From personal observation and from reports reaching me, it appears
that placing four copies of the standard work in the hands of officers of
Lodges has not proved to be the expected panacea for ritualistic ills. There
is no question that possession of the work has been a boon for many. But
that it has materially raised the general standard of rendition and knowledge
of the work is subject to grave doubt. In the light of experience I now
believe no Lodge should have been supplied with the work except on direct
request and then with not more than two copies. Complaint is heard that
the many little details not specifically described or directed in the work are
being omitted or altered until, in some r espects, there is developing a lack of
uniformity.
Arizona, 1941 (Grand Lecturer):
I would most sincerely recommend that the officers of all the Lodges
put forth the utmost effort to keep up attendance in their Lodges. I am
firmly convinced that one of the best ways in which to do this is to excel
in ritualistic work, to make your Lodge a friendly Lodge, to afford to the
members and visitors frequent opportunities to get real basic Masonic
education, and in every way strive to keep before the members the ideals
a~d principles. inculcated in Masonry which are the same ideals and princ1ptes for which free men fight and upon which the American way of
life is based.
Arizona, 1941 (Grand Lecturer) :
With our g:eat ~ation in t?e midst of a terrible and bloody war, with
plow shares again being beaten into swords, with men of all nations tearing
at each other's throats, with brother fighting against brother, let us here
resolve to do our full. patriotic duty and, as Masons let us put forth an
"all out" effort, side by side with our government,' to see to it that a
government of free men, by free men, shall not perish from the earth.
Indiana, 1941 (Grand Lecturer):
Many of our Lodges in the last few years have been lenient with their
members in the collection of dues. No criticism is made in those cases
where members were temporarily unable to pay. However, in being lenient

471

with this class of members, many Lodges have neglected to enforce payment · from those who were able to pay. In some Lodges enforcement of
the law in this respect practically has been nullified. It is a fact that
hundreds of members in our Grand Jurisdiction, who for the last several
years have not paid any dues to their Lodges, are still in good standing,
-enjoying all the privileges and rights of Masons. Should any of these
members or t heir dependents make application to their Lodges for relief
it would be the duty of those Lodges to take care of them. A lso, we should
not lose sight of the fact that members and their dependent s, whether or
not they pay dues, are eligible to our Masonic Home, thereby adding to
our already great burden of rendering relief to those who deserve it. To fill
up our Masonic Home, which always has a waiting list, with this class of
members and their dependents would be unjust to those who are more
worthy and more deserving of our Masonic Charity.
The safe and Masonic way is to square every account each year. If a
member is unable to pay, the Lodge should remit his dues. If he is able
to pay, make him do so or suspend him.
A Lodge managed on sound business principles always .will be in a
healthy condition, both financially and numerically.

CO-ORDINATE MASONRY
Connecticut, 1941 (Grand Master):
The original structure of American Masonry has during the years
undergone a large expansion, not only through the development of additional degrees and ceremonies, but also by means of the establishment of
numerous correlative orders, membership in which is dependent either on
membership in a Masonic Lodge or relationship to a member. While this
expansion of the Masonic ideals is valuable, it must never be forgotten
that any organization which bases its membership on Masonic relationship
thereby accepts a definite responsibility to avoid any act ion or conduct
which might derogate against th e honor and integrity of Ancient Craft
Masonry. The world at large does not recognize the distinction that we
maintain, but criticizes thoughtless action on the part of any correlative
body as though it were a Masonic misdemeanor.
Oklahoma, 1941 (Grand Secretary):
"Can or should Lodge Secretaries co-operate with Secretaries of other
Masonic Bodies by furnishing them with information regarding suspensions,
dimits, etc.?" The object of this discussion was an endeavor to arrive at
some conclusion as to what would be the remedy for the evil of brethren
maintaining their membership in the higher Bodies and allowing themselves
to be suspended in their Blue Lodge. .It was agreed by all that close
co-operation between the various Bodies should be had and it was a problem
that each Grand Jurisdiction should look out for themselves.
New Mexico, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
England's membership has shown a substantial gain. The. small lodges
which are encouraged there and the disapproval of the so-called "higher"
bodies of the Grand- Lodge are said by Englishmen to be strong con.tributing factors in this growth. It also finds that Masonry stands before
the world confident that right will again prevail no matter how many lodges
and lodge rooms be destroyed nor how many Masons may b e persecuted.
Masonry will "march on"-when dictators are no more. This sentiment
is universal.

472

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE

PATRIOTISM-WHAT WE ARE FIGHTING FOR
Louisiana, 1941 (Grand Master):
Freemasonry has always done its full part in every great crisis of our
American history. It was by no acc.ident that into the cause of the American
Colonies Freemasonry lent its influence, and when they gained their inde-•
pendence it was no accident that this government was built upon those
principles for which Freemasonry has always stood; and we, as. Masons of
today, are going to justify that great heritage. We a r e united in every
respect and dedicated to the defense of the ideals and principles of America.
The world today is sharply divided into two camps: one, the totalitarian ruled by Dictators; the other, the government of the people, ·by the
people, for the people, under representatives elected by the free and untrammeled citizens at regular intervals and for a definite term of office.
Mississippi, 1941 (Grand Master) :
Freemasonry is a representative Democracy which stands for the
absolute equality before the law of every human being regardless of race,
creed, or preferment.
Masons, individually and collectively, believe in freedom of assembly,
which is not permitted by dictators, free speech, except libel and treason,
and liberty to do anything that does not injure himself or some other person
or property. Masons, not only in this Grand Jurisdiction, but throughout
the world have always been willing and are now ready and willing to give
their time, their property, yea, their lives to defend this Masonic representative Dem0 cracy.
Masons hate the aggressive wars of the totalitarian Dictator, but are
willing and ready to wage an aggressive war in defense of the fundamental
principles of our ancient and honorable fraternity and "the flag of the
United States of America and the Republic for which it stands."
Masonry is vitally interested in the outcome of this struggle. Masonry
cannot function in a country governed by a Dictator. Let us wholeheartedly cooperate with our Government i'n its struggle for the things that
are vital to the existence of Freemasonry and our form of Government. L et
us take Cooperation for our motto.
Mississippi, 1941 (Grand Master):
I am pleased to report that a large number of lodges and many individual Masons have reported to me that they have responded to the appeal
and have purchased a number of bonds and will purchase more. With
the advice and consent of th e Finance Committee, the Grand Treasurer
and the Grand Secretary, I have authorized the investment of all surplus
funds of the Grand Lodge in Defense Bonds. By the time this Grand
Lodge convenes I hope that the total of our Grand Lodge investment in
these funds will aggregate the sum of $85,000.00 face value.
The above "Mes"sage" having come to th e notice of the officials of the
Treasury Department. in Washington having in charge the sale of these
bonds, I received lt';tters from them expressing the appreciation of the
Treasury Department for th e work we are doing in Mississippi toward the
sale o~ these bonds ..1 understand that a copy of my message was sent. by
some interested parties t<;> all of the Grand Lodges in th e United States.
Florida, 1941 (Grand Orator):
We should with John Adams, "sink or swim, live or die, survive or
perish, give our hands and our hearts to this vote. Whatever be our fate, ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

473

be assured-be assured that this country will stand. It will cost treasure,
it will cost blood; but it will stand and it will richly compensate for both.
Through the ·thick of the gloom we see t he brightness of the future, as the
sun in heaven. We shall make this a glorious, an immortal day. \Vhen we
are in our graves, o ur children will honor it. They will celebrate it with
thanksgiving, with festivity, with bonfires and illuminations. o~ its. annual
return they will shed tears, copious, gushing tears; not of subJection and
slavery, not of agony and distress, but of exultation, of gratitude and of joy.
"Sir, before God, I believe the hour is come. My judgment approves
the measure and my wh.o le heart Is in it. All that I have, and all that I am,
and all that I hope to· be in this life, I am r eady now to stake upon it, and
I leave off as I began, that live or die, survive or pe;ish, I am ~or the
Declaration. It is my living sentiment, and by the blessing of God, 1t shall
be my dying sentiment; independence now and independence forever."
This, then, Most Worshipfu l Master and Brethren, is what we are
fighting for.
Wisconsin, 1941 (Proceedings):
To be an American is to desire, deserve and enjoy a privilege; one of the
priceless gifts bestowed upon the human race when appeared the Star of
Bethlehem.
Americanism partakes of the Glory of the Son .of Man ; of the mother's
love for her offspring; of the father's pride in a dearly beloved son, coupled
with a deathless affection for the land of one's birth or adoption, together
with boundless gratitude to .the source of one's sustenance, prosperity and
happiness.
In an American's heart there is no room for jealousy of a brother's
well-being-no envy of the deserved prosperity of another.
The American mind moves not in circles. It pierces through and beyond "issues"! I t is undismayed by obstacles! It darts straight at the mark !
It is an American's delight to always unselfish ly serve his Country,
uphold its laws, and keep unsullied its Flag. His loyalty is ex~mplified by
his daily life; his devotion by his g lad offer to sacrifice on its Altar of
Liberty and Justice I
He knows, though dynasties may rise and fall, other forms of government come and go, that our "Government of the People, by the People,
for the People, shall not perish from the Earth," and so, each. ~ay, my
brethren, he gives t hanks to Almighty God for the blessed privilege of
being an American.
Kansas, 1941 (Grand Master):
"The lapse of time, the ruthless hand of ignorance, and the devastations
of war have laid waste and destroyed many valuable monuments of antiquity
on which th e utmost exertions of human genius have been employed. . . . .
Freemasonry, notwithstanding, ha6 still survived."
As we assemble in this Eighty-sixth Annual Communication of our
Grand Lodge, we may find just cause for pride and rejoicing in the fac t
that after centuries of travail, Freemasonry still s urvives, and maintains its
potency and prestige among the free peoples of th e world. Nay, more, my
brethren, even in those lands where dictators have decreed that lodges
should disband, we are confident that th e spirit of Freemasonry still lives.
Although the g lorious history of our institution may entitle tis to a
comfortable feeling of pride, it would be fatal for us to rest upon the record
of past achievements. Masonry today is being tested as never before. A
world in torment has issued a challenge that we cannot ignore. Where

475

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

people who have been taught the principles of self-government are being
herded and driven like beasts of the field, there is the irrepressible cry for
the brotherhood of free men. Where greed and avarice are encroaching
upon human lives and human rights, there must be re-awakened a spii;it
of altruism. Where cynical brutality is dominant, there is an unquenchable
longing for lofty idealism. Where solemn covenants and promises have
been contemptuously broken, there must be fostered the principles of
fidelity and integrity. Where hatred and violence prevail, there is need for
the mystic trowel. Where pride and arrogance reign, there must be nurtured the spirit of humility that recognizes a Divine Source of strength
and wisdom. Where atheism has produced spirittial lethargy, there must
be re-kindled a-consciousness of the abiding presence of God. Where people
have sunk to the depths of despair, they must be given that solace which
can revive in their hearts the spirit of hope.
'
Masonry is founded upon the principles that are needed. Never were
they more sorely needed than today. A mere cessation of warfare will
not cure the ills of the world. We must highly resolve that out of this
holocaust will come a peace founded upon the ideals that are contained
within the teachings of our institution.
Can Masonry meet the challenge? It cannot do so by pretendin·g to
be a substitute for the Church. It cannot by trying to follow the pattern
of a chamber of commerce. It cannot by becoming a political faction. The
universality of Masonry must be maintained.
Can we meet the challenge. We can hope to do so if we have sufficient
patience and wisdom; if we live the principles of Masonry in our relations
with ourselves, our neighbors, our country and our God; if we steadfastly
uphold and promulgate those principles in our private and public affairs,
to the end that the world at large may be convinced of their good effects.
Time, patience and perseverance can accomplish a world-wide recognition
of the Brotherhood of Man and the Fatherhood of God.

in ultimate victory, putting our faith and trust, as we know our Sovereign
and Brother does, in the Most High.

474

Connecticut, 1941 (Jurisprudence Committee):
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to whom was referred that portion
of the Grand Master's Address regarding communication sent to the
Governor, as follows:
"As Grand Master of Masons in Connecticut I assure you that the
Masonic organization is ready and willing to cooperate in every way with
the State Government and with all fraternal or other organizations in any
work to preserve and defend our country."-would report that they have
had the matter under consideration, and recommend the following resolution:
·
.
"Resolved, That we most heartily endorse the letter and spirit of the
communication of the Most Worshipful Grand Master to the Governor
of the State of Connecticut under date of March 26, 1941, and we hereby
renew the offer and pledge of our Grand Master, Walter M. Pickett, made
to the Governor of the State of Connecticut."
·
British Columbia, 1941 (Resolution):
The Grand Lodge of British Columbia, A.F. & A.M., at its 69th Annual
Communication now assembled in the historic City of New Westminster
British Columbia's first capital city, on the 20th day of June, 1940, desire~
to place on record its undying loyalty to the Crown and unswerving devotion and warm affection to the person of its well beloved Sovereign and
Brother King George VI, 'assuring him of the grim resolve of every member
in th!s Grand ] urisdiction to give his life if necessary in the present struggle
for liberty and freedom, and also expressing to him its strong confidence

Washington, 1941 (Correspondence Committee):
In the announcement for a communication on September 4th (England), the Board of General Purposes announced the sending of a circular
letter to the Secretaries of the LodgQs in England and Wales, asking that
Freemasons contribute toward the country's urgent needs by surrendering
their Masonic ] ewels to Grand Lodge for the purpose of being melted
down and the proceeds presented to the Treasury as a Masonic gift. We
note from a report of the Finance Committee that Grand Lodge had, up
to December 31st, 1940, received from the proceeds of Masonic ] ewels
£19767 8s. 2d. We also note in a later report of the Board of General
Purposes that £10,000 more will be sent shortly. This act al~ne shows the
deep loyalty of the Masonic Fraternity in England and Wales in the terrific
struggle now pending.

INVESTIGATING COMMITTEES
New Mexico, 1941 (Grand Master):
The importance of the investigating committee, its functions and the
need of secrecy brought out a great deal of discussion. The consens-us of
opinion seems to be that investigating committees are prone to b\! lax in
their vital and extremely important duties. Brother F. Homer Newton, of
Michigan, who delivered the paper on this subject, stated:
"As far back as the year 1560 the Landsdowne Manuscript set forth
certain commandments as to the conduct of Masons. They provided, among
other things, th,;tt a Mason must be true to God, his country, and to his
brother Masons; that he must do unto others as he would be done by; that
he keep the counsel of his Lodge; be no thief and slander not another, that
he respect and protect the chastity of a brother Mason's wife, his widow,
his 'daughter, mother or servant; that he do no unlawful thing w~ereby
the craft might be dishonored; that he undertake no work for which he
knew himself incompetent or unfitted; and that. he give honest work for
his pay."
Careless investigation of a candidate who is to live up to its qualifications can be the source of a great deal of trouble for a Lodge. This point
was stressed strongly and a number of reports from Grand Secretaries
were read on this very important subject.
Indiana, 1941 (Grand Master):
There is no doubt that the duty performed by a Committee appointed
to investigate the qualifications of a petitioner is the most important of any
committee now functioning within our several Lodges. Various means
have been provided and distributed to serve as a guide for members of these
committees, but in my opinion it should be the recognized responsibility
of the committee to inform the petitioner that, should he become a member
through initiation, that he will be required not only to conform to the
various forms and ceremonies of the several Degrees, but also to pay
annually to his Lodge a certain amount of money for dues. I am convinced
after many inquiries that some members of our Fraternity, who have become
delinquent, were never informed that it was required that annual dues be
collected by the Lodge, and, consequently, having had no previous advice
of this requirement, these members became delinquent due to their not
being advised of this requirement.

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I believe it would be proper for candidates to be fully advised on this
matter.

FEES
Washington, 1941 (Grand Master ) :
Of twenty-eight amendments to •by-laws presented for approval, ten
were reducing the fees for the degrees; eight of these reduced the fees ·to the
minimum prescribed by the Code, i. e., $30.00, which make 65 out of our 268
Lodges with their fees reduced to that amount. Exclusive of Research
Lodge No. 281, which has a prohibitive fee to discourage petitioners, our
maximum is $120.00. The average is about $50.00, and 90 of our Lodges
charge that fee.
The reason givert for these reductions, in every instance, is the desire to
attract more petitioners. Some local situations may make this the wise and
proper thing to do. Personally, I am convinced that in most cases, if more
consideration were given by the officers, and the Master particularly, to the
development of a program that would increase the value of the Lodge to its
members, it would not be necessary to reduce fees to secure petitioners.
Sometimes even at $30.00, I question whether the candidate gets his money's
worth; and yet I know that we can, if we will, give our candidates a conception of Masonry and its purposes, that will make the amount of the
fee, n'ot matter how large, seem insignificant.
I am not saying that conditions may not sometimes warrant a reduction
of our fees to the minimum. I am saying that before a Lodge reduces fees
it should make a survey of just what it is giving the candidate for his money,
and see whether the answer is not in increasing what they give, rather than
in lowering what they take.

DE MOLAY
W ashington, 1941 (Jurisprudence Committee):
Investigation of the records disclosed that for the last ten years at least,
this Grand Lodge has upheld the Grand Master in refusing permission for
any of our Lodges to sponsor DeMolay. We can find no place where this
Grand Lodge has in any way recognized this organization. Apparently,
disagreeable features and situations have arisen but we do not deem it
advisable to recognize an order that has no connection with us-even to
the extent of investigating it.
· However, we feel that it would be advisable, if it meets the pleasure
of our Grand Master, that he investigate what lodges are sponsoring such
bodies and facts concerning such supervision, making such recommendations and taking such action as he deeins advisable.

INDEX FOR 1942
14.
Page
Accounts-Report of Committee on:..........................:...................................... 144
Adams, Chas. Albert, P. G. M.-Reference to P. G. M. Filmer................
8
Alamo Lodge No. 122-Trial Record report .........................................:........ 188
Alphabetical L ist of Lodges................................<. . ............................................. 431
Amendments to By-Laws.................................................................................... 109
Amendments-Sections 12, 31, 78, 152:......................................................366, 367
Annual Election Day-Amendment to conform to changed meeting
date .................................................................................................................... 366
Annual Election of Officers ................................................................................ 399
Annual Meeting of Grand Lodge-Change in day ...................................... 366
Annual Oration ...................................................................................................... 120
Annual Returns ...................................................................................................... 146
Appointive Officers ..........................................................................:..................... 400
Appointments by Grand Master ........................................................................ 400
Audit of Accounts-Finance Committee on .................................................... 346
Auditor's Report .................................................................................................... 110
Finance Committee on.................................................................................. 346
On Grand Secretary...................................................................................... 110
Auradou, Anthony L., Inspector-Tribute to John W hicher .................... 181

B
Baker, Bert T .-Appointed Inspector.............................................................. 93
Berkeley·Clubhouse-Report of Trustees ........................................................ 194
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528-Building project............................................ 264
Blight, Reynold-Invocation by.......................................................................... 104
Board of Control-Report of...............:...........,..........:....................................... 318
Boards of Relief-Reimbursement................................................. ,.................. 318
Boards of Relief, Reimbursement-Finance Committee on...................... 352
Summary .......................................................................................................... 321
Brentwood Lodge N<>. 345-Financing............................................................ 266
Bryan , Roy C., Inspector, Philippine Island Lodges-Report by.......... 164
Budget-Finance Committee on....................................................... ,.... :........... 359
Burke, Samuel E., P . G. M.-Motion re Annual Oration .......................... 129
By-Laws-Report of Committee on.........................................,........................ 157

c
Canada, Grand Lodge of Ontario-Greetings from....................................
8
Canby Cross Lodge No. 679-Trial Record report .................................... 186
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444-Finance Committee on.................................... 356
Loan to ............................................................................................................ 265
Certificates of Merit-Presented........................................................................ 144
Clandestine Masonry-Report of Committee on...................................,...... 269
Clausen, Henry C.-War Relief Fund.............................:................................ 18
Clubhouse, U. C. Berkeley-Report of Committee ...................................... 194
Clubhouse, U. C. Los Angeles, Report of Committee:............................... 272
Clubhouses-Grand Master on ..........................c;................................................ 94
Committee on Accounts-Report of ..............................:................................. 144

INDEX

INDEX

478

~~

.

Committee on By-Laws-Report of···········································--·-----···------·-·· 157
Committee on Constitution Observance-Grand Master on.................... 97
Report of cornmittee ... ~---·-··----···-·········································-···················.:. •.'a. 330
Committee on Credentials-Report of Committee-············--··-············-······· 371
Committee on Masonic Information -··---···------·-·······: ....................................... 303
Grand Master on ......................................... :.. ·-···-·-·--··-·-·····-···--·····----------·--4 93
Committee on Returns-Report of-·-·----'··--------··-····--··--·---------------·----·-----··· ..... 145
Committee on Segregation-Appointed .......................................................... 103
Report of -·················-···········--·······················-·----··--··---··-··-·-···--··---··-·-·--·-·-·-·--· 118
Constitution Month Observance-Finance Committee on ................... ___ 351
Grand Master on ...... ·-··-··-----------------·-----··-··-·--·····-··············-··-----··--····-·····-- 97
Report of Committee on ................. :.........................................................._ 330
Constitutional Boards -------·-----··--·-··--······--·-····-·- ----·-·-··--··-···-·--··--···---····------·-··-·· 405
Contributions to Endowment Fund................. :........................................... :-.• 283
Corona Lodge No. 324-:--Trial Record repo.rt ................................................,. 186
Correspondence Committee-Finance Committee on.................................. 351
Report of·-········------·-··-··········-·-···········-··-·····---·····----···-··-··---·····-······················ 361
Courtesy Degrees-Grand Master on -·····--·········----····-··-··-··-·---··----····--··········· 95
Curtis, Jesse W .-Received .....................: ... :................................................. ~---···
9

D
Decisions by Grand Master·········--·--··--·-·························--···-·····-·-·-·-················· 101
Report of Committee on ] urisprudence on ............................................ 368
Delavan, George, Jr.-Segregation Committee ..................................•........... 103
Dille, Thomas A.-Junior Grand Steward pro tern.....................................
8
Directors, Masonic Clubhouses ...................................................................:...... 406
Dispensations Issued ·········-·····--···································---··-·············--··········-····--·- 108
Dues in Trust for Members Philippine Islands-List................................ 89
Duke of Kent.. .....................................................................................................~- 15
Eulogy for·····························--·········-·---·----·--------····-·-······-·-·---·--------------------·--- 180

E
East Bay Lodge No. 489-Financing.............................................................. 266
Edson, Mark-Segregation Committee ............................................................ 103
El Dorado Lodge No. 26--Financing .............................................................. 266
Election-Annual of Grand Lodge officers .................•................................... 400
Elective Officers of Grand Lodge Since Organization ................•............... 420
Employment Service-Finance Committee on···----···-··------·-··············-·-··----·· 352
Endowment Board Report ··········-················--------····-···-·---·--·-··-······-·--·····--···--···· 279
Appreciation ·······--------·-······---············-------------·-·······-----:---------··--------·····---------- 279

~:~:t:st~---:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ;~~

Contributions to ------------------··--·--------------------------------------------------------------------- 283
Expenses --------··-----------------------------·······-·--------------·-···-·----·--·--···········-·-········----· 282

~:f~~~~l0Z~r~~~:::: : : : : : :: :: : ~:: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :;: : : : : : : : : : :: : : : ~H
1

Testamentary gifts ····-···-··--···-·-·--·---·----····-···---····················-·····-··---·····-··--·--- 280
War stamps and bonds ...... ·-···-······--·---·-··--·------···--·-··--·--·-···-·-·-·--··---···-···-·~--- 281
Endowment Fund-Grand Master on ................... ---····--··-·-··--···---------··-···----·-- 94
Euclid Lodge No. 519-Trial Record report .................................................. 189
Eulogy-Duke of Kent, by P. G. M. Wm. Rhodes Hervey ...................... 180
In memoriam, by Inspector G. Ellsworth Meyer ................................ 182

479

Page
Expenses of Grand Lecturer, Grand Tiler, Grand Organist-Finance
Committee on ··········-··---------·····-·-·--·······--·-·---·---··-··-··---·---···-····--·····-----····-·-·--- 357
Expenses of Inspectors, Reimbursement-Finance Committee on ........ 355
Extinct Lodges-List of·-----····----····-·--·--··-····-····---···········----·--··--····:·-·····----·-·--- 417

F
Fifty-year Buttons-Individuals to whom issued ....... :...... :........................... 105
Filmer, William P., P . G. M .-Greetings from------·-···-----·--····------···--·----------·
8
Finance Committee-Report of....................................................................... ~ .. 346
Financing Building Projects-Report of Committee on ............................ 262
Supplementary report ·······································-------········--···-······················· 345
Foreign Grand Lodges .........~ .......:......................................... :.............................. 428
Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571-Trial Record report ...................... 186
Friendship Lodge No. 210-Trial Record report ........................................ 186

G
Gaylord, Robert B., P .. G. M., War Activities-Report by ........................ 160
George Washington Lodge No. 525-Resolution by.................................. 160

G~o~::;~:~~f~~i~~E~~~:ifl:::: : : : : : : : : : : : : :'.: : : : : : : : : : : : : :~:: : : : : : : : 1~~

Golden Gate Lodge No. 30-Trial Record report ........................................ 186
Goldman, Herbert C.-Greetings from .............................................•.............. 268
Granada Lodge No. 608-Trial Record report ....... ~------~---·--········ ············-···· 189
Grand Chaplain-Devotional service by..........................................................
9
Grand Lecturer-Grand Master refers to.: ..................................,................... 99
Report of···········-···························--·-·················----·--·-·············--·············------·-· 130
On salary expense item in budget ............................................................ 370
Grand Lodge-Elective officers since organization ...................................... 420
Officers present ·---·-·--·---·-------------··········-------····-·--·····---------·-·······················--·
7
Per capita tax .................................................................................................. 358
Per capita tax, Finance Committee on .................................................... 358
Grand Lodge of Philippine Islands-Advance for relief............................ 353
Grand Lodge of Scotland-Authority for relief, from ................................ 353
Grand Lodge Week Activities~Finance Committee on ............................ 347
Report of Committee on .................................. ._............ :.......•...................... 369
Grand Masters' Conference ····················-········-···········----···························--·---·· 92
Grand Master's Message...................................................................................... 12
Armstrong, Leighton D., appointed inspector ............................ :........... 93
Baker, Bert T................................................................................................... 93
Clausen, Henry C........................................................................................... 18
Constitution observance ······-···-···-······----······-····-···-------------: .....................:.. 97
Courtesy degrees ···-------·-·········--------·········-······-····----·--------·-·······---··-·---··-···---· 95
Decisions .......................................................................................................... 101
Defense activities, proclamation.................................................................. 97
Dues in trust for members, Philippine Islands, list............................ 89
Duke of Kent.................................................................................................. 15
Endowment Fund ···············-···················--·---···--·········-···········--··--·---·-··-------·· 94
George .Was_hington. me.moriaL. ........................_. .........•..........: ...... :............ 92
Cahforma contnbutions to···········-································--·---·-··-··········· 93
Grand Lecturer ··········----··-··---·-····--····················------·····-················-··············· 99
Grand Masters' Conference ·····-·-···-···-··········································-·---------·-- 92

480

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Grand Secretary .......................................................................................~... 99
Grand Secretary's staff...... _....................-. ........... :............................... :-.~ ..•.J 99
Hawaiian Islands Lodges .......................................................................... ~ 87
Inspectors appointed .................................................................................... 93
Interim appointments ................ ............................~..................................... 100
Johnson, Nels H., appointed inspector ..............................................,..... 93
Kirkeby, Carl, appointed· inspector............................................................ 93
le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge, reference to........................................ 87
List of Masons in armed forces ........................................:......................... 23
Mack, Henry C ................................................. -'·······················-·'·--··········•-'·• 93
Masonic clubhouses ···············································································--·""·· 94
Masonic Home at Covina............................................................................ 94
¥asonic Homes· ................................................. :............................................ 94
Masonic Information, Committee on........................................................ 93
Masonic Service Association ...................................................................... 91
Masons in armed forces, list 0£...................... :........................................... 23

~~g:i~:.n~ 0~i;;sif.·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~;

Members of Philippine Islands Lodges, dues received from, list.:.. 89
Meyer, G. Ellsworth, appointed inspector.............................................. 93
Miller, Rollie W., P. G. M., reference to ............................................... : 87
Morton, Matthew, Jr., War Service Com1;I1ittee.................................... 20
Pearl Harbor Lodge, reference to ...........,,.................:............................... 87
Pettus Bible, award of.• ,....·... ,;.•,, ...•. ~ ....• A.,_..,..••••.,....... ~ ...••..•. :............. :..•:.•• 100
P?ilippine Islands Lodges ........................s-~ ....................................!............ 88
Pierce, Mark A., War Service CommitWe.:.-: ................. :........................ 19
Potts, Alexander Douglas ....................... """ ...................... :..... _.................. 13
Reference to ............................................................................................ 88
Proclamation of December 16, 1941.......................................................... 14

481

Page
Grand Secretary-Report of .............................................................................. 104
Accounts of Grand Secretary...................................................................... 112
Amendments to by-laws ............................................................................... 109
Annual report of······························-················'"·········································· 104
. Auditor's report···································-························································· 110
Dispensations .................................................................................................. 108
Duplicate charter to Hills Ferry Lodge .................................................. 108
Ffty-year buttons ............................................................................, .............. 105
Life membership resolutions ........................................................................ 108
Membership report .........................................................,, ............................. 105
Monthly membership returns ...................................................................... 105
Report of auditors ....•............ ;,...................................................,................... 110
Trial records ·······················'·························································:················ 110
Grand Secretary-Finance Committee on ...................................................... 350
Grand Treasurer-Report of.: ............................................................................ 116
Gr·ievance Committee-Report 0£ ..................... :... :.:........................................... 186

H
Hankerson, Asa W .-Received ............................ :............. :...............................
9
Remarks by .................................................................................................... 167
Hawaiian Islands Lodges.................................................................................... 87
Hawaiian Islands-Report on, by Alexander Douglas Potts .................... 304
Hervey, Wm. Rhodes, P. G. M.-Eulogy for Duke of Kent .................... 180
Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236.....,Duplicate charter to ........................................ 108
Holmes, Glen-Senior Grand Steward pro tern...........................................
8

Income of Grand Lodge-Finance Committee 00. . ............ ......... ............. . ... 360
Inspectors-Appointed ........................................................... ,............................. 93
List of .............................................................................................................. 425
Ionic Lodge No. 520-Resolution by.................................•.............................. 160
Ivey, Joseph A. E.-Received ....................... ,....................................................
9
Remarks by .................................................................................................... 167

J
Jones, George L., P. G. M.-Tribute to Herbert P. Shaw........................ 169
Jurisprudence-Report of Committee .............................................................. 366

K
Kelley, Lawrence C.-Elected Junior Grand Warden ................................ 400
Oration by ...................................................................................................... 120
Kent, Duke of-Eulogy for ................................................................................ 180
War Service Committee .............................................................................. · 19
Proclamation .......................................................................................... 20

~~;;~~· ira:~k··:i;.L:::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

grand Master-Presentation of silver service to .......................................... 401
rand Master's Visitations ...... ,.......................................................................... 95

g~=~~ ~e~~ee:asryin~~~~~ ·M~~t·~;··~-~-£~;~--t~···········--·········'··························~···· 401

Grand Secretary's Staff-Grand Master r~-f~~~--t~::::::::::::::::::=::=::::::::::::::::

~~

.L
La Habra Lodge No. 659-Trial Record report ............................................ 186
le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge ............,................. Q,0..................................... 87
Letter-Service certificate .................................................................................. 22
Life Membership Resolutions Approved ........................................................ 108
List of In~pectors........,:: ......................................... ~················:··························· 425
List of Subordinate Lodges ...........................·..................................................... 407
Alphabetical .: .............................. ,.......................................... ,......................... 431
List of Masons iri Armed Forces...................................................................... 23

482

INDEX

INDEX

.
.
Page
Lo;m to Carpmtena Lodge No. 444--Finance Committee on .................. 356
Lodges-Alphabetical list of...: ........................ .... ~: .. ,...................................... ;.~.z 431

t::: ~: :~~i~~~'.~-~-~~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ :~;

Long Beach Temple Association ...................................................................... 268
Los Angeles Clubhouse-Report of trustees ......................................... '......,... 272

M
Mack, Henry C.-Appointed inspector............................................................ 93
Masonic Clubhouses-Finance Committee on .
.
349
Grand Master on, ........................................... :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::: 94
Mason!c Clubhouse Council-Greetings from ........ ~---···-···-·-:··················-'··· 198
Masomc Employment Service-Finance Committee on .............................. 352
Masonic History-Finance Committee 00 ...................................................... 348
R~port of Committee 00 ............................................................ _ ................ 273
Masomc Homes-Annual Report ................................................................... ~ -- 199

~luc::!~iai~ ~;~~d···F·;~~~~:::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Covina, report of superintendent......................................................:..... :... 245
Children in Home .................................................................................. 248

~d~:!~~nnsh~~-~-::'.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Admissions and discharges .................................................................. 245
Alumni in service .................................................................................. 246
Departures ---····-····--·---································-···-····-----·····················--······· 251
Donations ................................................................................................ 251
Entertainment Fund contributions .................................................... 255
Outside relief ·················-------··················································--··-----······· 250
Safety precautions ··--·········-···························-----··········-·-··--··--····--······· 246

!~~~if~~:~~:'. _;:: ;; :-:_: _.~ill

Decato, report of superintendent .......................................,........................ 226
Christmas, entertainment, cash donations ........................................ 238
Died during the year .............................................................................. 236
Donations ··········-········-·--···-·-··········································-·-·--····-·-············ 237

-----------.-------···-··
--------------·-·······-····-----·······················--

Masonic Homes-Finance Committee on ........................................................ 349
Grand Master 00 .................................,.......................................................... 94
Mason!c Home at Covina-Grand Master 00................................................ 94
Masomc Homes Endowment Board-Finance Committee on .................. 350
· Report of ............................•............................................................................. 278
Masomc Homes Endowment Fund-Grand Master on.............................. 94

483

Page
Masonic Information, Committee on-Grand Master on............................ 93
Report of Committee 00 .•..................•..................•........................... ,.......... 303
Finance Committee on................................................................................... 348
Masonic Service Association .............................................................................. 91
Masonic Temple Association-Report of........................................................ 158
Masons in Armed Forces-List 0£.................................................................... 23
Master of Ceremonies-Dana R. Weller, P. G. M., appointed ... :.............. 401
McClelland, Miles ].-Appointed inspector.................................................... 93
McGuire, Robert K.-Appointed inspector ...................................................7 93
Members of Grand Lodge, Died During Year-List .................................. 171
Members of Philippine Island Lodges, Dues Received from-List........ 89
Membership Returns-Monthly ........................................................................ 105
Membership Statistics- .......................................................................................... 105
Merchant Marine-Resolution on ...................................................................... 160
1'.1eyer, G. Ellsworth .......................................................................... ,................... 93
Inspector, general eulogy............................. ,..................•...... :...................... 182
Miller, Rollie W., P. G. M ........ :............................. :............................................ 87
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655-Building project ......................... :................. : 265
Moore, John R.-Segregation Committee ........................................................ 103
Morrison, Claude H.-Dedicates San Diego Temple .................................. 100
Morton, Matthew, Jr.-War Service Committee ...................:...................... 20
War service report by ......................,........................................................... 161
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506--Trial Record report ...................................... 186
Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18-Finance Committee on ............. :.............. 357
Financing ........................................................................................................ 267

N
Necrology-Report of Committee on ..........:.................................................... 168

0
Officers-Elective of Grand Lodge since organization ................................ 420
Ogden, Wm. B., P. G. M.-Constitutes Trona Lodge No. 684................ 100
Oration, Annual-By Lawrence C. Kelley .................................................... 120
Osterholt, William T., Grand Treasurer, pro tern.......................................
8

p
Pacific Lodge No. 136--Trial Record report .................................................. 186
Palisades Lodge No. 637-Trial Record report ...................................... 186, 190
Past Grand Masters-Present............................................................................
8
Portraits of preceding.................................................................................... 354
Pay of Members-Finance Committee on ...................................................... 358
Report of Committee on ........................................ -1.................................... 365
Pearl Harbor Lodge ....................................... ;...................................................... 87
Awarded Pettus Bible .................................................................................. 100
Pettus Bible Award .............................. ,.......................'::............................. ,........... 100
Philippine Islands Lodges ........................................ ,........................................... 88
Report on ···················································································---················· 164
Phillips, Clarence E.-Received ................................................ ,.........................
9
Pierce, Mark A.-War Service Committee.................................................... 19
Pinole Lodge No. 353-Trial Record report .................... :.............................. 18()
Policy and General Purposes-Report of Committee on ............................ 361

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Portraits of Preceding Grand Masters-Finance Committee on .......... - 354
Portrait of Grand Master-Finance Committee on .................................... 354
Potts, Alexander Douglas .................................................................................. 13, 88
Presence acknowledged .............................................................................. 8
Report on Hawaiian Islands ........................................................................ 304
Presentations ····-·········································································'······························
Arthur S. Crites lapel pins........... ,............................................... :.............. 401
Chas. Albert Adams insignia .........................................c•••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 401
Leis by Alexander Douglas Potts................. :............................................ 401
Past Grand Masters' apron .......................................................................... 401
Silver service by John Stewart Ross, P. G. M ....................................... 401
Traveling case by George Haddy, W. M., Tehama Lodge No. 3.... 401
Proclamation by Grand Master.......................................................................... 14
Defense activities of Lodges........................................................................ 97
War Relief Fund ......................•........•............ :........................·:....... :................ 18
War Service Committee............................................:..............,..................... 20
Public Schools-Grand Master on.................................................................... 98
Public Schools Week-Report of Committee on ............................................309:

Page
Portrait of Grand Master .................................................................... 354
Portraits of preceding Past Grand Masters .................................. 354
Reimbursements of Boards of Relief ............................................:... 352
Reimbursement of expense of inspectors ......................................... 3-55
Salaries ···········-·····-············--··-··············-·--···-··········-···------···········----·-·-······· 358
Traveling expenses of Grand Lecturer and assistants ................ 355
Traveling expenses of Grand Master ................................................ 353
Unpaid Grand Lodge dues .......................... ,....................................... 355
On financing building projects ......................................................•............. 262
Grand Lodge Week activities ...................................................................... 369
Grievance ··················································-······················-················-·············· 186
Jurisprudence ···························································--··················-·················· 366
Annual meeting ....................................................................................... 366
Building projects .................................................................................... 366
Grand Master's decisions •.......................................... :.......................... 368
Resolution by George Washington Lodge No. 525 ...... :............. 368
Masonic history .............................................................................................. 273
Masonic information .................................................................................... 303
Masonic Temple Association ...................................................................... 158
Necrology ......................................................................................................... 168
Pay of members ................................................................................... :.......... 365
Policy and general purposes .................................................,................ :..... 361
Barkeepers .............................................................................................. 364
Building Committee ·······························--······································-······ 362
Grand Secretaries' Conference...........................................................·. 364
Grand Secretary's staff............... :.......................................................... 361
History Committee .............................................................................. 363
Merchant Marine .................................................................................. 363
Monthly membership returns .............................................................. 362
Reports to Grand Lodge ........... .'........................................................... 361
San Francisco office .............................................................................. 361
Territory of Hawaii ........................•..................................................... 363
War Service Committee.......................:................................................. 363
Public Schools Week. .........•.........:..................•................. :.................•.......• 309
Returns ·························································-················································· 145
Segregation .............................................................................................:........ 118
Special taxation ································································-····················--······· 159
U . C. L.A. Clubhouse .................................................................................... 272
War activities .................................................................................................. 160
War Relief Fund .......................................... ."......... :....................................... 133
War service .................................................................................................... 161
Report of Grand Lecturer ............... ,.......................................... ., ...................... 130
Report on Philippine Islands Lodges .............................................................. 164
Report of Grand Secretary-Report of Finance Committee on ...~ .... 104, 350
Report of Grand Treasurer-Report of Finance Committee on ...... 116, 353
Resolutions ············································-·············-···-·············'································· 160
Returns-Annual .................................................................................................... 146
Report of Committee on .............................. ~., ............................................ 145
Riverbank Lodge No. 459-Financing ............................................................ 265
Rowcliffe, Theo. H.-Appointed inspector...................................................... 93

484

R
Recommendations by Grand Master.. ..:·········································,··········:······· 102
Report of Auditors ··························-·····-················--··················-·························· 110
Reports of Committees:
Accounts .......................................................................................................... 144
Board of Control.. .................................................. ."....................................... 318
Appropriations ··················································································--·-·· 320
Employment service .............................................................................. 319
Meetings .................................................................................................. 318
Reimbursements ···································-············-··································· 318
Summary of Boards of Relief ............................................................ 321
By-laws ............................................................................................................ 157
Clandestine Masonry .................................................................................... 269
Constitution Month observance ....................... .".......................................... 351
Correspondence ...................................................................................... 361, 438
Credentials .................................................... :................................................. 371
Finance --··--·--······-········-·····-······-······---····-····-···················································- 346
Budget ...................................................................................................... 359
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444, loan to.................................................. 356
Correspondence Committee ................................................................ 351
Endowment Board ................................................................................ 350
Eitpenses of Grand Lecturer, Grand Tiler, Grand Organist .... 357
Grand Lodge Week activities .............................................................. 347
Grand Secretaries' Conference ............................................ ,............... 370
Grand Secretary's report .... ·-····················-·····································--··· 350
Grand Treasurer's report ...................................................................... 353
Masonic clubhouses ····--································'······································· 349
Masonic history ........................................ ·····································--····· 348
Masonic Homes ·--···············--··-·············-----···············-···-·············-·-········· 349
Masonic information ·······-·-·····-················--········-·····--·-··············-----····· 348
Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18.......................................................... 357
Pay of members ...................................................................................... 358
Per capita levy, Masonic Homes ................................... ~ .................. 359
Per capita tax ........................................................................................ 358

485

s
Salaries-Finance Committee on ............................................................. ~ .......... 358
San Francisco Office-Grand Master refers to.............................................. 99

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38-Trial Record report .......................................... 193
Schreider, William A.-Eulogy for .................................................................• 169
Sequoia Lodge No. 349-Trial Record report.: .............................................. 191
Service Certificate Letter...................................................................................... 22
Service to Fighting Men, ............ ,........."................ ., .......................... -................. 91
Sharp, William-Appointed inspector.............................................................. 93
Shaw, Herbert Parker-Eulogy for.. ................................................................ 169
Shenk, John W.-Received, ................................................... ,.............................
9
Shepherd, Chas. A ............................................................................................... 11, 88
Silver Service-Presented to Frank M. Smith .............................................. 401
Smith, Frank M.-Biography of.................................................:......................
1

Page
Warlow, Chester H.-Grand Lecturer's report ............................................ 130
Warren, Earl-War Relief Fund...................................................................... 18
Report on War Relief Fund by................................................................ 133
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579-Financing .. ,....................................... 268

486

~~:~::: ~~::i~~~~~ti~~-~·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1~6
Special Taxation Committee-Report of..................: .. '·······················-········· 159
Standing Committees .......................................................................................... 402
Stedman, W. ].-Greetings from...................................................................... 8
Stevens, W. Bertrand-Devotional service by.............................................. 9

T
Tade, Frank-Eulogy for ................................................................... ,................ 170
Time of Annual Meeting of Grand Lodge ...................................................... 366
Townsend, A........................................................................................................... 88
Traveling Expense of Grand Lecturer and AssistantsFinance Committee on .................................................................................. 355
Traveling Expense of Grand Master-Finance Committee on ................ 353
Trial Records Reported .........................:.......... :................................................... 110
Tribute to John Which er.................................................................................... 181
Trustees of Masonic Homes-Report 0£... ..................................................... 199

u
U. C. Berkeley Clubhouse-Report of Trustees ............................................ 194
Unfinished Business .............................................................................................. 160
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues-Finance Committee on .................................. 355

v
Veteran Buttons-Individuals to whom issued ...... :....................................... 105
Visitations by Grand Master.............................................................................. 95

w
War Activities Committee-Report of ........................................................... . 160
War Bond Holdings ........................................................................................... . 98
War Relief Fund .................................................................................................. 16
War Relief Fund-Certificates of Merit presented .......•........:.................... . 144
War Relief Fund-Report of Committee ....................................................... . 133
War Relief Fund-Detailed statement of Lodge participation ............... . 139
135
... . 135
War Service Certificate ..................................................................................... . 21
War Service Committee ..................................................................................... . 19
Report of Committee ................................................................................... . 161

t~<!!~!r:.c:~:!~iiu~~~~···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::'.:

487

at~e~a~~lli~; ~ =-~~~-~-~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 16~

.. ..
W
Weller'. Dana R., P. G. M.-Appointed master of ceremonies .................. 401
Tribute to John Which er..................................................................'. ......... 181
W~~\Lake Lodge No. 392-Trial Record report ........................................ 186
W 1c er, John-Tribute to ...........,. ...,................................................................... 181
Wo_llenberg, Chas. M., P. G. M.-Appointed trustee of Masonic Homes 401
Wnght, Frank M.-Appointed inspector........................................................ 93

LESLIE EARL WOOD
Grand Master 1942 - 1943

Our seventy-sixth Grand Master is a native son of California,
having first seen the light of day in the city of San Diego on April 2nd,
1896. He is the youngest of four children born to Rosslyn A. Wood and
Clara Keyes Wood. In 1925 he was united in marriage to Miss Edith
Marie Anderson, and a daughter, Barbara Lou, was born to them in
1927.
Masonry has played an important part in his life and his efforts
have added to the welfare of the Craft in the jurisdiction. He is recognized
as an eloquent, forceful speaker 'and is admired for the straightforward
manner in which he deals with any given subject. It has often been said
of him "that he is not afraid to say what he thinks."
He was raised to the Sublime Degree of Master Mason in Sequoia
Lodge No. 349 of Oakland, California, in September, 1919. Three years
later he moved to Sacramento, where he became identified with the Sojourners Club of that city. He first served as its secretary and was then
elected president. In 1925 he became the leader in a movement to organize Provident Lodge No. 609 and served as the charter Master. In
1930 his outstanding ability was recognized by the Grand Lodg-e and he
was appointed Inspector of the 22nd District.
After the death of Grand Lecturer Thomas Baker in 1934 he was
appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer for the Northern District and at the
conununication in October of that year was elected Grand Lecturer.
His first real contribution to Grand Lodge was the perfection of the
present system of teaching the Ritual.
He was furth~r honored in October, 1939, by his election to the
office of Ju,nior Grand Warden. He was elected Senior Grand Warden
in 1940; Deputy Grand Master in 1941, and served with distinction as
Grand Master from October 15th, 1942, to October 16th, 1943.
He is a member of the Sacramento Bodies of the Scottish Rite;
Ben Ali Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S.; Pyramid No. 3, A. E. 0. S.; Past
Patron of Temple Chapter No. 513, 0. E. S. He has the distinction of
being an honorary member of Bethel No. 74, Order of Job's Daughters.
Since 1923 he has been successfu1ly engaged in the printing business
in Sacramento. He has always taken a active interest in the affairs of
his city and state.
He will long be remembered by his coi,mtless number of friends as
one who is never too busy to help another in time of trouble. His
friendly counsel and advice have smoothed the pathway for many of his
brethren and his 'kind and sympathetic understanding of the other man's
problems have endeared him in the hearts of his friends.

LESLIE EARL WOOD
Grand Master

1942

It can be truly said that he has earned all the honors that Masonry
has conferred upon him and has never failed to justify the many confidences reposed in him.

~ranb JLobge of qtaUfornia
I, Lr..oYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby certify that
the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of
. that body at its ninety-fourth Annual Communication, commenced at the city of
San Francisco, on Monday, the 11th day of October, A. L. 5943, and terminated
on Friday the 15th day of October, A. L. 5943.

3Jn ~rsttmonp 1mbtttof ,
I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed
the seal of the Grand Lodge of
the jurisdiction of California, at
the office of the Grand Secretai:y,
this thirtieth day of October, in
the year of Light, five thousand
nine hundred and forty-three.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M.·. W.·. GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree anb ~ccepteb ~asons
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Ninety-fourth Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Monday, October 11, A. D. 1943, A. L. 5943
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 15, A. D: 1943, A. L . 5943

SAN FRANCISCO
A. F. Heuer, Printer, 330 Jackson Street
1943

GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree anb ~ccepteb masons
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

NINETY-FOURTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced its NinetyFourth Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, Van Ness
Avenue and Oak Stre.et,:San Francisco, on Monday, October 11th,
A. L. 5943, at 10 :00 o'.clock a. m.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
't•

Officers of Grand Lodge
E. WooD .. :.:,,.'. ..::.::..... - ...................... -; .......................... Grand Master
R'. ·.w. ·.CLAUDE H. MoRRISON ........ .,...................................... Deputy Grand Master
R.".W. ·.GILBERT C. TuFoREST- ..... ... ...................................... Senior Grand Warden
R." . W.·. LAWRENCE C. KELLEY ........................ ;~ .......................lutli"orGrand Warden
V. · .W. ·.FRANCIS V. KEESLING............ ..............................................Grand Treasurer
v.· .w.· •. LLOYD E. WILSON ........................ .......... - ............ ................. Gr~d Secrr1tary
V. ·.w. ·.CHESTER H. WARLow ................ : ..
Gron4 Lecturer
V. ·.REV. B .YRL F. BAllCOCK.................................................. .................. Grond Chaplain
W. ·.ARTHUR PAULSEN ............ ... ... ... ........... ....................................... Grand Orator
w.·. HENRY D. OueHANT .......................................... Assistant Grand Secreta._ry
w.·. JESSE F. MoTJi:........................ :.............................. ... ................. G~on,d Marshal
w.·. ALEXANDER DOUGLAS PoTTs ......... ....... .......... ........ -.Grand Standard Bear.er
W . ·. IRA E. KRA.MER .............................................................. Grand Sword Bearer
w.·. DANIEL McFADZEAN .............. ................................ , .... , .... Gr,<JM Bible Bearer
W. ·.ANDREW J. CATES ...........: ......... , ............ ; ............ ,, ......,, .. Senior Grand Deacpn
W. ·.GEORGE W. WrLLIAMS ....... ........: ...................... , •. , ....... ./unior Grand Deacon
w.·. CURTIS D. REESE............................... .................. ...... ~-. .. Senior Grand Steward
W. ·. GLEN HoI.MES ..••:..................................................:.:·:; ... Junior Grand Steward
W. •• CHRISTIAN A.. S. KEMPER .................................................. Grond Pursuivant
w.·. CHARLES E. ANDERSON", ........ !........................................... ~.Grand Orgawist
W. ·. RALPH K. MARSHALL .......................... ,...................................,..... Grond Tiler

M.·.w.·. LESLIE

¥ ................................. , . ......

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

496

Past Grand Masters
M:. w:. DANA R. WELLER
M:. w:. ROBERT B. GAYLORD
M:. w:. FR;ANCIS V. KEESLING
M:. w:. FRANK w. MIXTER
M:. w:. Wn.LIAM RHODES HERVEY
M.'. W:. ]AMES B. GIST
M:. w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M:. w:. RANDOLPH v. WHITING
M:. w:. SAMUELE. BURKE
M:. w:. EARL WARREN
M ••• w ... ARTHUR s. CRITES
M:. w:. ROLLIE w. MILLER

M:. w:. GEORGE L. ]ONES
M:.w:. JAMEs T. FRASER
M:. w:. WILL H. FISCHER
M:. w:. LEON 0 . WHITSELL
M:. w:. CHARLEs M. WoLLENBERG
M:.w:. WILLIAM B. OGDEN
M:. W:. ]OHN STEWART Ross
M.'. W:. LLOYD E. WILSON
M:.w:.. FRANK M. SMITH
And 1278 Officers and Representatives from 545 Lodges and
the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form,
following which the flag of our country was received.
The Grand Master announced the recent death of Raiph A.
Ganger, Junior Grand Steward, and the appointment, October 10,
1943, of Glen Holmes, Past Master of.Dos Palos Lodge No. 681,
to the office of Junior Grand Steward.
Fraternal greetings were received by cable from James Dustin
Smith, Master of le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371, on behalf
of that Lodge and from Col. Morris DePass, Jr., Inspector of the
I 18th Masonic District, Chungking, China, where our F ortitude
Lodge is under dispensation.
Greetings were also read from R. W . Claude L. Austin,
Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Texas.
The Grand Master, with the unanimous and hearty approval
of Grand Lodge, directed the Grand Secretary to send telegrams
of greetings to Past Grand Master Albert E. Boynton and A. J.
Hendricksen of Redlands. Brother Hendricksen was celebrating
his 96th birthday and will have been a Mason seventy-four years
on November 14th, 1943.
·
Distinguished Guests
Grand Lodge was honored by the pres ence of the .following
distinguished guests, who were received with appropriate honors
and who were greet ed personally at the Altar by the M: W .
Grand Master:
M:.w:. Kenneth M. Robb, Grand Master of Masons in Oregon.
M:.W: . Lem S. Allen, Grand Master of Ma~ on s in N evada.
M:.W: . Albert R. Buehman, Grand M aster of Masons in Arizona.
M:.w:. Asa H . Hankerson, Past Grand Master of Masons in
Washington.

M: .w:. W m . C. Watson, Past Grand M aster of Masons in N evada.
M:.w:. C. A. Carlson, Jr., Past Grand Master of Masons in Nevada.

R:.w:. Leslie M. Sanford, Dep'uty Grand Master, N evada.

w:. Chas. H. W eeks, Junior Grand Steward; Oregon.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

497

Devotional Services
The V. Reverend Grand Chaplain, Byrl F. Babcock, then conducted a most inspiring and uplifting devotional service, using as
his theme "Faith for These Times."
My Brethren. of Grand Lodge:
In this wonderful opportunity to claim your attention as this great
94th Annual Communication opens, I have but one wish. It is that
something which I may say will help Masonry and you as individual
Masons. As Handel said that afternoon in April 1742, when his
"Messiah" was first sung and Lord Kimond came to congratulate him:
"My Lord, I should be sorry if I only entertained them. I strove to
make them better."
We have come together today at a time when men's souls are being
tested; hearts and homes torn asunder; sacrifice and chaos crowded into
each hour of every day, yes, a time in which our thinking and our actions
are being distorted and our philosophy of life being driven into new
avenues of experience so different from the past.
1
We are living in an age of sterling adventure. Man is conquering
time and space, and producing things in quantities never before known.
A new application of science and invention has taken place in which
wonderful machines are being built the like of which have never been
dreamed of by prior generations, and these new processes now dominate
the stage of action. Tremendous research laboratories, the last word in
equipment, manned by thousands of technically trained men, backed by
millions of money, working out each day more effective methods and
creating new deviees. Our world is being transformed and the end
is not yet.
Tremendous wealth has been created in our United States as indicated by 'the approximate 50 million savings bank depositors having
billions of dollars to their credit.
Our manufactured products have increased to staggering amounts.
We talk and plan bigger and better machines; more and more goods.
War, of necessity, gears our thinking toward the material and the
secular. We become top-heavy with the load and our normal, well
rounded-out equilibrium is endangered. O'ur wealth and material resources
should give to us a feeling of pride but we must see to it that these
things alone shall not be the only considered factor as we seek a triumphant victory in this great struggle for a continuance of a freedom
and a way of life which we have so ricl;ily enjoyed.
There are other things in life besides kilowatts and horsepowers.
Our moral idealism must be kept alive. We must not allow our technique
to outstrip our morals. We must not permit our machines to devefop
faster than our manhood. The humanizing aspect of life must be developed along with the machine itself. We need and must have modern
inventions and products of the research laboratories. W e need and must
have the most highly improved processes of manufacture yet it is vital
indeed that we build th e manhood of our country in equal proportions
so as to direct this machinery and properly use these instruments.
Progress in science makes progress in morals necessary; and when we
increase the power of man we must at the same time increase the strength
of the check r ein. The materialistic emphasis alone spells disaster.
Do y ou think, A merica, that you are going . to live .because you can
build your buildings so high tha t. they seem to part the stars ?

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Do you think, America, that you are going to live because of the
sense of security. which you have in the money that is in your vaults?
Do you think, America, tllp.t you are going to survive because of
the length of your railroads and because of the great physical sense
of security which you possess? If you do, then you don't know history.
Call the roll of the nations :-Assyria, Phoenecia, Chaldea, Babylonia,
Egypt, Greece and Rome. Let civilization pass by in its unimpeachable
verdict. And what is that verdict? No nation has ever lived, and no
nation can live in the future of civilization that does not use its physical
and material power as the opportunity for conserving and maintaining
spiritual and moral ideality.
Just what does live in civilization? Tell me, if you will, the name
of a single banking house of Ancient Rome. Give me the name of a
single ship that carried the commerce of Greece. Their ribs are bleaching
white today, buried under the sands of the sea these many centuries, and
no one knows their names and no one cares. But Plato lives; Aristotle lives;
Socrates lives; Livy live&; Tacitus lives; Hippocrates lives ;-arnd why?
Because they touched humanity with a spiritual and an intellectual inspiration that permanently maintains itself in the ceaseless struggle of the
human heart to lift upward and to love life. As tested thro.u gh the
experiences of the nations of old, the supreme product of civilization is
man himself and I know that Martin was right when he said:
"Men lack vision unless they see
That in the human plan
Nothing is worth the making
That does not make the man.
Why build these cities glorious
If man unbuilded goes?
In vain we build the world
Unless the builder also grows."
We must have mass production in these days of global war. It is
necessary to have a quantity of life and things. But we want also life
in its quality, and things for their real value. We not only want to
make life longer, but also more useful and productive.
It is a great thing to ' have· an hour when the best stirs you. I am
sorry for the man who never had such an hour; who never climbs a
peak; who never feels an ecstasy; who never has a thrill; who never
scents the fragrance blowing in from flowers which blossom in fields.
A man who is always mediocre, and who trudges on with his head down;
his pulses dull, and his senses stale. This hour is for tall men; suncrowned, who dwell above the clouds in public du~y and in private
thinking. This hour is for men and Masons who will take hold of a
Great Faith-a courageous, believing and buoyant faith in God-in Country-and in Victory. Emerson has well said, "Do not leave the sky out
of your landscape." And just as the sky brings the bounty of the
harvest, the exquisite beauty of the flowers, and the glory of the landscape, so faith in God brings the fulfillment of man's high destiny.
Masonry was builded on high idealism, and it has thriven upon it
for centuries. We have made idealisms of various sorts real. Now we
are called upon to evaluate an idealism that will create a mighty faith
in our cause, in our future, and in the victory that we are determined,
.with American tenacity, to win. Victory is the word that epitomizes
the thoughts of men everywhere on this earth this day. And as one

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

499

seeks for the way that men have most successfully gained the goal of
victory, he will jlnd nowhere a more satisfying guide than in a letter
that a man wrote whose name was John. He wrote: "There is a victory
that overcomes the world-our Faith." Robert Louis Stevenson said:
"In the harsh face of life, Faith can read a bracing gospel." I firmly
believe that the p·eople whom you and I represent here today need a
bracing gospel in their hearts.
The days have not always been fair, the news has not always been
good, and there are dark days, perhaps, ahead; but it has always quit
raining and it will again. My faith tells me so. Right may be crucified
today upon a cross, it may lie in a new tomb tomorrow; but on the
third day it rises again-rises in Poland, in Norway, in Belgium, yes,
in France, rises to lead its captors captive, and to fling again its free
banner to the breeze.
·
We are ndt the first people in this New World, this Western Hemisphere, to face danger and desperate times. From Greenland to Cape
Horn, these continents were won with blood and battle, defended by
the sword and preserved by the greatness of heroes. We, too, must
live greatly, it has been well said, or fail and perish miserably. We must
rise to this great destiny with a mighty faith in our ultimate victory,
or we must sink into a slough of everlasting despond.
We are not a people who will ever willingly accept totalitarianism
for our democratic way of life. We are not a people who will ever
willingly exchange s,lav.e ry for the freedom we have known. We are
not a people who will , ever worship a sun-god instead of Jehovah, or
place in our hearts and our shrines the picture of a mad paperhanger
instead of the Man of Galilee.
I believe that with all my heart. Do you? I say it so convincingly,
perhaps, because of a story I was told the other day. A man was talking
with a little girl who had come from England to spend a time in America
where she might be safe from the death that rained from the skies. This
man asked her how she thought it would all come out and she said,
"Oh, sir, everything will be all right. Qur King has told us sol" It is
written that unless our faith be as that of a little child, we shall not
enter into the promises. We need that faith to ride out this storm,
my brethren.
An old French letter says of Louis the Sixteenth, "He was a goodly
man, and if there had been rto confusion he would ha~e likely made a
wise king; but destiny bequeathed to him a revolution, and he was
not equal to it." You and I and this generation have inherited a world
revolution, and I covet for us the faith and the courage to be true to
our traditional greatness and meet this destiny unafraid.
All Cal varies look like defeats, all Crosses appear to be catastrophes;
but they do . not prove so in the end. Cannons belch thunder and death
today, and tomorrow the birds build nests in the mouths of them ~nd
the cannoneers are forgotten. Firm in the faith of a just cause, fearmg
no ~dds oblivious of temporary disaster, we are one with men like Sir
Colin C~mpbell, who said to his Highlanders at Balaclava, "We die,
lads, where we stand." They stood and died, but England lived. Grenville, sailing the tiny "Revenge" out of Flores Harbor that the Spaniard
might not butcher his men, and dying in battle against the fleet of the
enemy; Cambronne at Waterloo, leading the Old Guard against an army;
Pickett with his line of grey warriors at Gettysburg-they all knew a
brief moment of defeat and glory, but men have gained courage and
greatness by drinking at the fountain of their faith.

500

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Keep that faith, my brethren, and we shall triumph; for Right may·
lose a battlc--a score of battles-but Right does not lose a war. As
Anne of Austria said to Richelieu, "My Lord Cardinal, God does not
pay at the end of each week; but in the end, God pays!"
There was once a beautiful maiden, and she found favor with the
king, and he made her his favorite queen. But a time came when her
people were oppressed and there came an old patriarch of her family
and besought her to speak to the king and intercede with him. She
hesitated, lest she lose favor, but the old patriarch reminded her of her
duty. "Who knoweth, Esther," he said, "but that it was for such a time
as .this thou ·hast come to the kingdom?"
Fly high your flag upon the hill,
Keep well this faith and fight until
Our cause sh(l.ll win, as win it will, .
Who waits with faith, waits with Victory.

(The Grand Chaplain concluded his add,ress with the following prayer:)
Our loving Father, we come to thee this day as the giver of every
good and perfect gift. We recognize Thee as the one who anxiously
cares for His children; today, oh, our Father, when our nation faces a
crisis-a crisis of such large magnitude as never before was known, we
consecratedly pray this day for a living and courageous faith-a faith
that shall carry us to victory-a faith that shall lead us somehow into
a time when homes shall again be united and when firesides shall again
be lighted. We pray for that faith this morning, in the name of Christ.
Amen.

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
One year ago you honored me by placing in my hands the insignia
and the title of Grand Master, the greatest gift in the power ·of Masonry
to bestow. Today I am reminded that soon that honor and the authority
that goes with _it, will pass to other hands, probably more capable than
mine. But before a Grand Master relinquishes the oriental chair to his
successor it becomes his duty to make a report of all his official acts
during his tenure of office and to make such recommendations as may
seem to him expedient and for the best interests of the craft. In keeping
with that requirement of the law I present this written message for
your consideration.
·
Whether or not I have u sed the authority with which ·you invested
me, wisely and in accordance with Masonic principles and customs is
for you to decide. I am aware that the goal of accomplishment which
I set for myself at the beginning of the year was not attained and many
things w hich I desired and fully expected to do, have been left undone.
Because of the many restrictions imposed by reas~n of the war, the
lack of help in my business and a desire to preserve my health, it was not
possible for me to visit all the districts of the jurisdiction, much to my
regret. I have, however, attended all the annual breakfast meetings held
by the several Boards of Relief and Employment Services throughout the
jurisdiction and have visited as many· of the districts as time, health and

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

501

general conditions would permit. In all I made more than 120 visitations
and traveled between twenty-five and thirty thousand miles.
State of the Craft
_I ~m. ple~se~ to report that, in my judgment the craft throughout the
1s m a healthy condition. During my travels I have been
pnv1leged to meet and observe the officers of many of our Lodges and
~ene~ally speakin~, h~ve found them to be .men of more than average
mtelhgence, conscientious, and sincere in their desires to serve the best
interests of Masonry.
.

JU~1~d1chon

However, in some of the Lodges this is not the ' case and too often

! ~a~~ f?und men ser_v_ing as Masters who appear to be utterly lacking

m 1mhahve or the ab1hty to properly guide the destinies of a Lodge.

I unh~sitatingly make the statement that, in my opinion the custom
followed m many of the Lodges of appointing a brother to the office of
Junio_r Steward and allowing him to believe that, in seven or eight years
he will be elected Master, is to blame for this condition.
I fully realize and appreciate that, in Masonry we meet upon the
level and that distinctions among brethren should not exist. I know
that every member of a Lodge, whose dues are paid and against whom
no charges. are pending, is eligible to hold any office in the Lodge; but
I also realize that the conferring of this honor should depend upon the
ability as well as the eligibility of the individual.
Too often we find men who have been appointed to one of the lower
offices, because of friendship on the part of the Master or as a reward
for some service to the Lodge. Neither the Master nor the brethren have
had any previous opportunity to observe the brother in office and do not
know whether or not he will be successful as an officer, but because of the
custom now in vogue, he is allowed to continue and each succeeding
Master appoints him to a higher station, whether ·he is qualified or not.
No Master should presume to speak for his successors and allow an
appointee to believe that he is being started through the chairs. He
should be informed that the appointment is for ihe current year only and
that the next Master may exercise his right to appoint whomsoever he
pleases to serve with him in the chairs. I feel that it should be made perfectly clear that the appointive officers serve at the will and pleasure of
the Master and that the offices up to and including that of Senior Deacon
are proving grounds upon which to try out future Masters. Under this
system it would not mean that because a brother served in one of the
appointive offices, he would be denied the honor of becoming Master,
but on the contrary it would be an added incentive for him to give his
best efforts to the Lodge, with the realization that the Mastership is
something to strive for and an honor given only to those who have
earned it and have proven their ability to discharge the important duties
of that office.
We find altogether too many Masters ~ho believe that the ritual is
the alpha and omega of Masonry. In their opinion the only qualification
necessary is near perfection in the ritualistic ceremonies of the degrees
and that the larger the class of candidates, the greater the success of the
year.
One who has spent as many years as I in teaching the ritual of our
order, could not help . but have a true appreciation of its beauty and im-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

portance to Masonry. It cannot be denied that, when properly and impressively rendered, it is inspiring and enlightening to all who witness it
and that by it we are enabled to im~art many valuable truths concerning
the fraternity and inform the novitiate of those underlying principles upon
which Masonry is erected. To the candidate, during the time of his initiation, passing and raising, it is the most important function of the Lodge
-for him it is a vehicle by means of which he attains an ambition-that
of becoming a member of the fraternity. Rightly does he consider it the
means to an end-the mearts to enter the fraternity that he might be
taught more about those divine principles, the practice of which has
made Masonry lead the way through the ages and become a powerful
force for good in practically every civilized community of the world. But,
to his disappointment he often finds thM the ritual is not only the beginning but the end so far as instruction is concerned. He is invested with
the secrets of a Master Mason and then forgotten while the Lodge turns
its attention to the next candidate. He comes to Lodge a few times to
enjoy the beauties of the degrees and, tiring of .t he same performance,
soon becomes one of the absent members--only a name upon the books
of the Lodge.

Grand Master in 1912. He presided over this Grand Lodge at the sixtyfourth annual communication in 1913.

502

The average man petitions for the degrees in earnest search for light
and knowledge, of which he thinks we are possessed and he has a perfect
right to expect that this information will be imparted to him. He expects
to find fellowship and the opportunity to ·mingle with his brethren. Where
a Lodge does nothing but confer degrees to the exclusion of all else, ~he
regularity alone becomes monotonous and there you find the reason for
the oft repeated complaint "we can't get the members to attend Lodge."
I do not think that a Lodge should be a one-man affair. No man is
big enough to put over a show in which he is the only actor. I have
suggested to many Masters that they appoint an advisory committee to
assist in planning the meetings and activities of the Lodge. This committee should consist of the officers, in order that they may have first
hand knowledge of what is going on and it might well include several
members from the side lines who, if given the opportunity, will usually
be found willing and anxious to serve the Lodge. It has been proven
over and over again that members will attend if they are given something
worthwhile in addition to degrees.
Necrology
It is with sincere sorrow that I report to you that again the hand of
death has removed from our midst many old friends and brothers. The
Committee on Necrology will conduct an appropriate service in memory
of those who will meet with us no more and it is not my intention to
eulogize any of those brethren here except to call your attention to .the
loss of three officers of Grand Lodge who have laid aside the working
tools of the craft.
Hardly had the new Masonic year gotten under way, when the news
reached me of the .death of Most Worshipful William Parker Filmer,
Grand Treasurer. Although "Billy" as he was affectionately called by his
many friends, had been in . poor health for some time, nevertheless . the
news of his passing came as a great shock. He was a tower of strength
in this Grand Lodge and in the Southern Jurisdiction of the Ancient &
Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, where he held the high office of
Lieutenant Grand Commander and Inspector General for California. He
was third in seniority among the .P ast Grand. Masters, having been elected

503

During his year as Grand Master, the jurisdiction suffered the loss
· of the Very Worshipful Edward Coleman, Grand Treasurer. At the annual election of officers, Brother Filmer retired as Grand Master and was
unanimously elected Grand Treasurer, in which position he served with
distinction for thirty years, until · death drew the curtain on a long and
faithful Masonic career.
I convened the Grand Lodge in the Temple in San Francisco for the
purpose of conducting the funeral services of this much beloved man and
Mason. The esteem in which lre was held ·and the affection with which
he was regarded, not alone by his brethren of the craft, but by all who
knew him, was shown by the attendance of more than five hundred
persons from all walks and stations of life.

• • •
In the appointment of officers to serve Grand Lodge, I canvassed the
entire jurisdiction to find men who have rendered long and outstanding
service to Masonry and who, as Grand Lodge officers would be truly
representative of the districts from which they came.
For the office of Grand Bible Bearer I chose Worshipful George R.
Stoddard, member of Stanislaus Lodge, Modesto. Brother Stoddard was
one of those brothers who served his Lodge from the very time of his
rai!ling. He had filled practically every office in the Lodge, had served
the district as Inspector and was complimented and honored by the
various Masonic orders to which he belonged. After retiring, as Master
he chose to continue his work for the Lodge and. at various ·times, served
as Chapiain, Tiler and above all, guide and ' me~tor to the younger 11J.embers. He belonged not alone to Stanislaus Lodge but was claimed by the
entire district. The hand of death has deprived us of the pleasure of his
pres~nce at this communication.

• • •

On September 24th I was informed of the sudden death of Worshipful
Ralph A. Ganger, Junior Grand Steward, member of Can·b.y Cross Lodge
at Tulelake.
Brother Ganger will be remembered for the important contribution
made to Masonry by him in the formation of his Lodge'.· It was to a
great extent by his efforts that the ·fine foundation of that Lodge was laid
upon which the future membership might build a splendid nrganization
to the credit of the fraternity. Because of his youth his death was the
more sad and untimely and Masonry has been deprived of the services
of a good man and an ardent craftsman.
Appointments
Realizing that so· important an office as Grand Treasurer ·should not
be left vacant at any time and particularly during the present uncertain
conditions, I immediately appointed Most Worshipful Francis V. Keesling,
Past Grand Master, to that station, to serve until this communication
of Grand Lodge. Many letters from all sections of the jurisdiction attest
the hearty approval of the brethren of this appointment.

• • •

In keeping with my original plan to appoint men who would, through
service and standing, reflect credit upon the fraternity, I again instituted
a search for one to fill the vacancy created by the death of the Grand
Bible Bearer.

505

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

One measuring up to all the requirements that could be expected
cif an officer of this Grand Lodge was found in the person of VJ orshipful
Daniel McFadzaen, member of Visalia Lodge No. 128: Like his immediate
predecessor, "Uncle Dan" as he is termed affectionately by his friends,
has never allowed his interest in Masonry to wane. His counsel and
advice are sought by his Lodge in all matters of importance. For many .
years he has practiced the profession of law, being one of the olpest
attorneys in Visalia and one of the most highly respected. I commend
him to you as worthy of the honor which has been bestowed upon him.

tions between China and the Philippine Grand Lodge were cut off. The
request was then made of California.

504

Appointment of New Inspectors
take pleasure in announcing the appointment of nine new Inspectors
to take the place of former Inspectors who have resigned, in most cases
to enter the armed forces of the nation and in one instance' caused by the
formation of a new district in China.
The following is a list of the appointees and the districts they are now
serving:
Earl D. Fonda, District No. 10; Edmond B. Skinner, District No. 96;
Orville Coburn, District No. 66; Edward A. Siems, District No. '34 ; Edwin G. Nelson, District No. 38-A; Elmer M. Hopper, District No. 3;
Henry S. Savage, District No. 35; Bert C. Bullock, District No. 28, and
M. B. DePass, Special District No. 118, Chungking, China.
Consolidation of Lodges
During the latter part of the year I approved the consolidation of two
of our Lodges; Welcome Lodge No. 255 at L emoore, and Riverdale
Lodge No. 496 at Riverdale. The Lodge is now known as Welco~e
Lodge No. 255, having chosen the name and number of the older I,,.odge.
I heartily favor consolidation where Lodges are situated close to each
other and where the membership in either one or both is not large enough
to make for a strong, effective organization. I feel that it is preferable
to have a smaller number of strong Lodges than a larger number of
weak ones. There are several Lodges in the jurisdiction that should
seriously consider consolidation.
Transfer of Trial
Charges were preferred against a Past Master of La Parfaite Union
Lodge No. 17 by the Junior Warden of the Lodge. Because of the
nature of the charges and the possibility that prejudice against the accused
might prevent a fair trial, the Master requested a transfer to some other
Lodge. I granted the request and transferred the trial to Starr King
Lodge No. 344.
Institution of New Lodge in China

In the late summer of 1942 Grand Master Frank M. Smith received
a· request from a group of Masons in the south of China to grant a dispensation to form and open a Lodge of Masons, under the Jurisdiction of
the Grand Lodge of California. The request was made by cable and did
not contain sufficient information to justify the Grand Master in granting
the request.
In Janu~ry of this year the request was again made, stating the
matter had firs t been taken up with the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands and that they had been assured by that Grand Lodge that the
request was being considered favorably. Before action could be taken,
Pearl Harbor had been attacked and immediately thereafter, cpmmunica-

The Grand Secretary and I had the opportunity of talking with
Worshipful George A. Fitch, Past Master and the Master-elect of the
proposed Lodge. After going into the matter thoroughly with Brother
Fitch, we were both convinced that a real need for a Masonic Lodge
existed and under date of Ma.rch 27, 1943, I caused to be issued a dispensation to form and open a Lodge in the city of Chungking, China, to
be known as Fortitude Lodge, U. D.
Under the dispensation I named Worshipful Brother George A.
Fitch, Past Master, as the first Master; Brother David Kiang, to be the
first Senior Warden and Brother Peter Kiang to be the first Junior
Warden. Brother Colonel M. B. DePass, Jr., military attache of the
United States Embassy at Chungking. and a Past Master was commissioned Inspector of the new district, to be known as the I 18th Masonic
District.
'
At my request the Lodge was duly instituted and the officers installed
i>Y the Inspector.

Shortly after the outbreak of the war, this Grand Lodge instituted a
plan to accept the dues of members of the Philippine Island Lodges, thereby keeping them in good standing and assuring the Grand Lodge of that
jurisdiction a new start, both in members and money, upon which to rebuild what the war has destroyed. ·As the formation of this new Lodge
in China was considered favorably by that Grand Lodge, I granted the
dispensation from California as a further service to them.
It is ~y· recommendation that the Lodge be continued under dispensation for the duration of the war and that no charter be granted by this
Grand Lodge, but that, when the Philippine Grand Lodge again becomes
active, we surrender to them all claims upon the new Lodge and let
them determine its future.

Contributions from the War Relief Fund
A request was made by the brethren of Fortitude Lodge, U . D., in
. Chungking, China, for the sum of twenty-five hundred dollars to feed
and care for the starving and unfortunate Masons in the south of China.
I requested the Gran'd Secretary to forward that amount to them, through
the San Francisco Branch of the Bank of Canton.
I also requested that a contribution of twenty-five hundred dollars be
made to the American R,ed Cross and that five thousand dollars be contributed to the United Service Organization on behalf of the Lodges
and brethren of the jurisdiction of California.
I feel that these contributions are in perfect keeping with the war
relief effort of this Grand Lodge, and the purposes for which this money
is being used is certainly for needs or emergencies brought about by the
war.
There can be no question about the starving Masons in China. These
men and their families have been driven from pillar to post by the ruthless invaders of that country and have lost th eir homes, their businesses
and their fortunes. Surely, money from this fund or the general funds of
Grand Lodge could not serve a greater need.
At the time this message was written, there were on record in the
office of the Grand Secretary, the names of nearly nine thousand Cali-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA,LIFORNIA

fornia Masons who are serving in the armed forces of the United States.
·Everyone is familiar with the part being played by the American Red
Cross and I am sure it would be no exaggeration to say that nearly all
of our nine thousand members in uniform have enjoyed the privileges and
comforts afforded them by the United Service Organizations in every
city, town and hamlet in the United States.

splendid cooperation and feel that we, on the mainland owe them a debt
of gratitude for keeping the Island Lodges sailing on an even keel.

506

Many Lodges have requested permission to donate part of their funds
to these two organizations, but under the constitution, this is not permissible. To satisfy this worthy desire and to pay, in at least some degree
for the services being rendered to our members by these two great organizations, the contributions herein mentioned were made. I know that
every Mason will agree that this is a fine investment in morale building
and that our brethren in the service will be paid back a thousand fold.
At a cost of slightly more than 55 cents for each California Mason _in
the service we are helping this organization to perform a valuable and
needed service for the boys away from home.
Pettus Bible
At the ninety-first annual communication of this Grand Lodge Worshipful William B. Pettus, Past Master of International Lodge of Peiping,
China, and Past District Grand Warden of China, under the Massachusetts
jurisdiction, presented to Grand Lodge a biole, printed in the Chinese
language, requesting that each year it be awarded to the Lodge which
had rendered the best service to Masonic charity.
I have reported the institution of a Lodge in the south of China. I
have also told of the donation of certain funds for the relief of starving
and destitute Masons in that country. This money is being used by the
brethren of this new Lodge for the benefit of those less fortunate than
themselves. They have undertaken to alleviate the distress of their brethren
and families who have been driven from one place to another by the
invading hordes of Japanese, deprived of their homes and worldly possessions and now destitute. I can think of no finer exemplification of Masonic
Charity than this and I designate Fortitude Lodge, U. D. of Chungking,
China, as the recipient of the Pettus Bible for the year.

507

Sotoyome Lodge No. 123
Several years ago, a Brother Bush, Past Master of Sotoyome Lodge
offered to deed the Temple, which he owned, to the Lodge, provided the
Lodge would pay him $250 per month, for life and in the event of his
death, the payment to be made to his . widow, as long as she should live.
The Lodge agreed to this arrangement and a contract was duly
executed. Payments were made to Brother Bush, as agreed and since
his death have been made regularly to his widow.
At the time the agreement was made the building was in good condition and the lower floor was bringing in a substantial rental. Since that
time, however, the tenants have moved and the building is now in need
of repairs, which the Lodge is not financially able to make.
·
Mrs. Bush, being informed of the financial condition of the Lodge,
agreed to accept a reduced payment of $125.00 per month. This payment
was continued until the Lodge had practically exhausted its funds, when
it appealed to the Grand Master for assistance.
I enlisted the aid of the Grand Treasurer and after a thorough investigation on his part, he recommended that Grand Lodge come to the
assistance of this Lodge financially. He ascertained from Mrs. Bush, now
in her eighty-third year, that she was dependent upon the payments from
the Lodge .for her livelihood, ·but that she would be willing to accept
$150.00 per month, if she could be assured that the payments would
continue. She felt that this amount would cover her actual expenses.

Hawaiian Island Lodges

Although the agreement was not made by the present members of
the Lodge, it is nonetheless binding upon them and constitutes, not only
a financial responsibility, but a moral obligation . as well. If Sotoyome
Lodge should fail to satisfy this just claim, it would reflect not, upon
the Lodge alone, but would be held against the entire fraternity by the
residents of Healdsburg. I feel that the brethren of the Lodge are to
be commended for the fine spirit they have shown and to Mrs. Bush, we
are indebted for her generous cooperation.

California Masonry has reason to be proud of the eight Lodges in
the Hawaiian Islands. Though situated in the theatre of war, they have
continued to function without interruption and have carried high the
banner of Masonry. They have taken part in all the. war activities of
this Grand Lodge and were among the first to go "over the top."

I authorized the. Grand Secretary to forward the sum of $150.00 each
month to Sotoyome Lodge, with the understanding that the Lodge would
repay Grand Lodge at the rate of $50.00 per month as long as Mrs. Bush
shall live and thereafter until the entire amount has been repaid, I now
ask the Grand Lodge to approve this action.

Realizing that these Lodges are working under military rule 'a nd must
obey immediately any order issued to them, I felt the necessity of having
a representative to whom all 'matters, requiring immediate action, could
be referred. In many cases time would not permit the Lodges to communicate with the Grand Master or Grand Secretary.
I appointed Worshipful Alexander Douglas Potts, Inspector of the
103rd district and Grand Standard Bearer of the Grand Lodge as the
special representative of the Grand Master, with power to issue dispensations and keep a watchful eye over the affairs of the_ Lodges.
This authority in no way affected the authority of Worshipful Charles
A. Shepherd, Inspector of the 102nd District, except in matters that
would ordinarily require the attention or approval of the Grand Master.
To both these brethren I express my deep appreciation for their

War Relief Fund
At this ti.m e this message was written the War Relief Fund had
reached a total of $127,573.00, a truly magnificent accomplishment and
surpassing the goal which was set at the time the fund was started. You
will recall that the goal was one dollar per member and at that time
our membership was 125;843. Our membership July. 31, 1942, was 126,313
and that has been passed. Our membership today is 129,509 and we are
within striking distance of that goal.
This is an accomplishment of which the members and the Lodges may
well be proud and those few Lodges which have declined to participate
will regret in future years that their names were not included with the
·Lodges providing so helpful a service during this war.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

508

A part of this fund is on deposit with the eighteen Boards of Relief
of this jurisdiction and with practically every Grand Lodge of the world,
to be made available to any California Mason with the armed forces of
the country, any place in the world, who may be in need and to t)1e
families at home and. the Masons from other jurisdictions, who may find
themselves in need within our state.
It is impossible to say how much of the fund has been used to date in
United States and foreign jurisdictions as no accounting from them h_as
been possible, but we can be proud of the fact that Masonry in this jurisdiction has suffered no Mason in uniform or the members of his family to
want for anything in our power to give. The service we are rendering is
purely M asonic and is not a duplication of the efforts of any other organization. Its effect will be lasting in the minds of those whom we are
privileged to help and will redound to the credit of the fraternity through
the years. to come.
0

I feel that the time of greatest need has not yet come, but as the
war continues and wounded men are returned to our shores in ever increasing numbers, our service to them will nat~rally increase.
When the war is finally won and our boys return to peaceful pursuits,
Masonry must lend a helpful hand to reestablish our own and to assist in
the rehabilitation of thousands of our members who may find it extremely
difficult fo adjust themselves to the sudden transition from war to peace.
Apart from contributions to organizations from this fund, and the
money used for relief, the fund has been drawn upon for administrative
expenses. It has been necessary from the beginning to inform the Lodges
what the program was and to get that information to the individual members in order to raise the fund.
In this connection I caused four Grand Lodge Bulletins and other
promotional materials to be issued to · the entire membership during the
course of the year. The volume of records, clerical work and correspondence necessary to successfully conduct a fund raising ~ camP,aign of
this proportion, and the war program which it supports, obviously required
the employment of additional people in the Grand Lodge office.
The total cost of all promotion, all administrative expenses including
equipment, typewriters, filing cabinets, etc., for the period since the war
began has been but $15,423.19. The essential thing to remember in this
connection is that without taking one cent from the reserves of Grand
Lodge a satisfactory fund has been raised, a satisfactory program has
been carried forward, every call upon this Grand Lodge has been met
and there is of this date in excess of $100,000 new money on hand available to meet such demands as may be made upon us.
I am sure that no one can consider this cost disproportionate when
they realize that the program is now set-up so that the entire fund can
be used for the purposes for which it was . raised, with little additional
expense.
Appeal to Limit Delegates
Due to the congestion on the railroads and bus lines of the country
and the request, by the government and military authorities, that civilian
travel be limited, I issued the following letter to the Lodges of the
jurisdiction.

509
August 16, 1943.

To My Brethren, Greetings:
We all appreciate the fine job that the railroads of the country are
doing in the transporting of troops and needed supplies; we realize the
importance of getting these supplies and men to the places :where they
will do the most good in the shortest possible time; we know that thousands of men in uniform are using every means of travel to return home
for a brief visit before going " over there" and that other thousands cif
mothers and wives are traveling over the country to be with their sons
?r husbands, maybe for the last time . .
We know these things and we heartily approve. We realize that the
man in uniform must come first and civilian travel must be limited.
The successful conduct of the war is the first consideration of all of
us and must take precedence. The part which we have had in the war
effort has been a large one and we must meet to plan for a greater participation during the coming year. This and other business considerations
make the holding of our annual business meeting imperative.
I would like to see every Master, Warden and Past Master at Grand
Lodge this year, but I know that is neither possible nor advisable.
Transportation facilities are already strained to the limit. Because of
this condition I ask the Lodges of the jurisdiction to send only one
.representative to Grand Lodge this year. This will not only show that
we are cooperating with the government, but will make. it possible for
all Lodges to be represented at the annual communication.
The presence of Grand Lodge officers, Past Grand Masters, Inspectors
and Grand Lodge committeemen is necessary for the proper conduct of
Grand Lodge and their presence is requested in addition to the Lodge
representative.
I ruggest that all who expect to attend the coming communication,
within the limits as outlined above, secure their travel and hotel reservations as soon as possible.
Remember, if your Lodge sends more than one representative, it may
mean that some other Lodge will not be represented.

Attest:

Cordially and sincerely,
LESLIE E. Woon, Grand Master.
LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary.

I now express my appreciation to the Lodges for their splendid response to this appeal.
Vacanies in O ffice
With approximately nine thousand of our members in the armed forces
of the country, it is only natural that many Lodge officers should pe
among them. In the majority of cases, the vacancies thus created have
been filled by appointment or s pecial elections, held under dispensation.
In some instances, however, the · offices· have been Jeff vacant so that the
regular officers might step .back into the line when :they return. This is
being done as a compliment to those men who are ·serving their country
and to assure them of the opportunity to continue in their travels toward
the East.
I fully appreciate the sacrifices being made by these brethren and
would not suggest anything that would deprive them of the pleasure and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

honor of ultimately serving their Lodges as Masters, but the can of
country must come first and for a time, they have exchanged the tools
of Masonry for the implements of war. We do not know how long the
war will last or when they will return to us, but we may be reasonably
, assured that some of them never will come back. ·

"We do not make Masons. We can only confer the degrees. Granting
that the teachings of Masonry will make a good man better, it quite
naturally fonows that men must come to us with a desire for the knowledge we have to impart and a sincere desire to be helpful to their fellow
creatures or the mere rendition of the ritual will have no effect and they
will no more be Masons than they were before receiving the degrees.

510

Mason~y has undertaken a great responsibility in its wa; program and
success depends upon the cooperation of every Lodge as wen as each
individual member. Unity and strength are needed now more than ever
before and Lodges must be manned by a fun corps of officers, if they
are to carry their share of the load.
Cases have been reported to me where the Master and both Wardens
have been inducted into the service. It does not require much imagination
to foresee what would happen to these Lodges if the stations were not
properly fined.
Masonry and what it stands for are among those things for which
our brethren are fighting and dying. It is a part of our job to carry on at
home-to preserve those ideals and principles which we hold so dearto keep Masonry strong and our Lodges active and alive to the needs of
the hour. These things our brethren expect of us and have a right to
ask. We cannot fail.
I do not believe that service to one's country will deprive any brotl;ier
of the privilege of serving Masonry. I feel that the right time to show
our appreciation is when they return. They have a prior claim on the
offices they vacated to serve their country and humanity and I cannot
believe that any Lodge would fail to put them back in the line. In the
meantime I strongly urge the Lodges to keep an stations fined.
Dispensations
When I assumed the office of Grand Master; one year ago, I realized
that I had many things to do, but that two jobs of major importan.ce
could not be overlooked or neglected. Masonry must be kept in line with
the war effort and the hysteria, which always sweeps through a nation
in · time of war, must not be anowed to take hold of our fraternity.
We have approved requests for approximately fifteen hundred
courtesy degrees for other jurisdictions. This is a service we are glad to
perform for our sister jurisdictions and their members who find themselves within our borders. In a few instances other jurisdictions have
elected men to membership who have become residents of California and
these requests for courtesy degrees have been denied.
I have granted only three dispensations to waive the investigation on
candidates in the service or about to enter the service and these requests
were approved only because the candidates were personally known by
all the members of the Lodge.
A surprising number of requests have been made to waive investigation on service men who have been in California only a short time and
could not possibly be known by the members of the Lodges. In one
instance I was asked to waive the residential requirements and the investigatibn on· a soldier from the eastern part of the country who had
been in the jurisdiction of the Lodge less than two months. The Master
of the Lodge admitted that the request was made because the candidate
was a soldier.
I dealt with this matter in the March issue of the Grand Lodge bunetin
and it might be wen to repeat my statement at this time.

511

"While we all have. the greatest respect and admiration for the uniforms of the fighting forces of -the nation, we must realize that we are
not electing uniforms to membership. We must investigate the men who
wear them and make sure that they are worthy of the privileges they
seek. This is also true of the many men now working in defense industries. Let us not consider their p·resent occupations or the size of
their pay checks as qualifications for admission.
"Masonry has gone through many wars. It will survive this one. Let
us guard our portals so that, when sanity and justice again return to
the world we will have strengthened rather than weakened our beloved
order."
If we, the Masons of today do not keep our eyes on the doors of
our Lodges and our feet solidly on the ground, then may almighty God
pity the Masonry of tomorrow.

Decisions·
I was asked if it were possible for a man to present a petition to a
Lodge when he was not personally known to any of the members.
I answered that it is not the intention of our laws to make it impossible for one to petition for the degrees because he is not known
by the members. I felt that it would be no violation of the law for any
member· of the Lodge to sign his p.etition as a recommendor, after first
having made a careful investigation to ascertain if the petitioner was
worthy of the privilege he sought.

II
At the last communication of the Grand Lodge the following resolution was adopted.
"Be it resolved that, at the communication of the Grand Lodge of
California, held October 13-17, A. L. 5942 in the City of San Francisco,
California, it is and shall be declared the purpose of said Grand Lodge
of California to include in its category of Masons employed in the armed
forces of the United States, any and all such Masons in good standing
as are now, or hereafter may be, employed in the service of the United
States Merchant Marine, provided such Mason has joined the United
States Merchant Marine since December 7, 1941."
"Be it further resolved that the Grand Secretary shall be so informed
and instructed to issue to such members of the United States Merchant
Marine all and· every emolument as is now, or is to be, issued to members
of the armed forces of the United States."
I was asked, if under the provisions of this resolution, a Lodge could
receive a dispensation to act upon the petition of a member of the Merchant Marine, who does not possess the necessary qualifications of residence.
I gave as my ·interpretation of the resolution, that members of the
United States Merchant Marine were to be considered in the same category

512

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

as members of the armed forces of the United States so far as any
remuneration or relief is concerned. That they would be entitled to
receive from the Grand Secretary the same certificate of membership
issued to members of the armed forces and could properly receive the
benefits of the War Relief Fund of Grand Lodge, but that the resolution
did not, in any way, abrogate the provisions of the constitution and that,
under Sections 213 and 216 of the ordinances, the Grand Master has no
authority to issue such dispensation.

III
An application for membership was received from one who had lived
in California for seven years but had resided in the jurisdiction of the
Lodge less than six months. He being a member of the armed forces
of the United States, the Lodge, by appropriate action, requested a dispensation to waive the residence requirements, which request was granted
and the application was received by the Lodge.
Later the applicant wrote the Lodge that it would be impossible for
him to receive the degrees and asked that the application be withdrawn
and the fees returned.
·
An argument was advanced that, because of a technicality it might
be possible to withdraw the application. That the fact that a dispensation
was requested and granted would, on the face of it indicate that the applicant was disqualified because of the lack of residence before the dispensation was granted. The technical question was whether or not the
dispensation gave him the qualifications of residence or whether it merely
set the requirement aside. That if the latter was the case, it might be
construed to mean that he never had residence qualifications and on
such grounds the · application could be withdrawn.
I held that it was true that the applicant did not possess the necessary
qualifications of residence and that the dispensation did not give him
that qualification, but certain powers are vested in the Grand Master,
among them the authority to grant dispensations to receive the applications of members of the armed forces of the United States, who do not
possess the qualifications of residence and that such dispensation rendered
the qualification unnecessary. That, by virtue of the dispensation, the.
application had been regularly received by the Lodge and could not be
withdrawn, except in accordance with Section 227.
IV
A Lodge submitted for approval a resolution to change its meeting
night. The resolution provided that, when the meeting fell on a holiday
it would be held the following Tuesday or Wednesday, according to the
night they could get the Lodge Hall. It ·further provided that the amendment would be effective only during the year 1943.
·
I answered that the resolution could not be approved because it did
not provide a specific day for the stated meetings of the Lodge and secondly, a provision in the by-laws could not be made pperative for a limited
time only. That a Lodge could, at any time, by appropriate action,
amend its by-laws, but once an amendment had been made and approved by the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master, it was effective from
then on unless again amended by the Lodge.

v
A Lodge conferred the first and second degrees upon a candidate,
after which he was taken ill and the Doctors were unable to diagnose the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

513

case. He was finally removed to a hospital where it was discovered that
he was suffering from a incurable ailment and was slowly dying.
The Master asked if there was some way in which the Lodge could
confer the Master Mason degree before the candidate died, in order that
he might be accorded a Masonic funeral.
I held that the degrees could be conferred only in a regular Lodge of
Masons.

VI
A Lodge asked approval of a proposed change in their by-laws to
lower the fees from twelve dollars to nine dollars per year. The amendment also provided that dues should be paid annually in advance instead
of .q uarterly, as provided in the Uniform Code of By-Laws Section
133, Article IX.
'
I answered that the Uniform Code of By-Laws, as adopted by Grand
Lodge, is binding on all Lodges and. could not be changed by action of
a constituent Lodge.

VII
The Grand Secretary requested a ruling as to whether or not it is
proper for a Lodge to request a proficiency diploma and for the Grand
Secretary to issue it to a member of a California Lodge who has been
examined in a Lodge in another jurisdiction and has been declared proficient by that Lodge.
·
I held that if the member was examined by the Lodge of another jurisdiction at the request of the California Lodge to which he belongs, it
wnuld be perfectly proper to issue the certificate. When a Lodge of
another jurisdiction confers the degrees on a candidate as a courtesy to
one of our Lodges we do not question the fact that he has been regularly
made a Mason. Neither should we refuse to accept their statement that
he has shown the necessary proficiency in the lecture of the third degree.

VIII
It was reported to me that last year one of our Lodges . held a dinner
and entertainment, where there appeared various radio and vaudeville
stars. Tickets were sold for $1.25 each upon the representation that the
proceeds were to be turned over to the Masonic Home for Children at
Covina. Approximately $85.00 or $90.00 was taken in which was subsequently turned over to ·the Home.
This year they proposed to hold a similar event in the Shrine Auditorium and to ask the other Lodges of the city to join with them. They
planned to have not only radio and vaudeville stars but movie stars and
the Philharmonic Orchestra and to sell tickets in sufficient numbers to
fill the auditorium, which seats approximately 10,000 persons, advertising
to the public that the profits would go to the Masonic Homes of California.
I wrote that it is not proper for a Masonic Lodge to sell tickets to
the public for any function and certainly would nQt be in keeping with
the dignity of Masonry to advertise a show to raise funds for a Masonic
charity. .That Masonic charity begins and ends with its members and
I sincerely hoped the time would never come when the fraternity must
ask non-members to assist in our benevolent work.
·

514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

515

IX

XI

An appeal was made by the Master-elect of one of our small outlying Lodges to grant him authority to open the Lodge for the purpose
of installing the officers, the Master having been inducted into the army
and both the Senior and Junior Wardens having removed from the
jurisdiction.

Many of the Lodges have asked whether or not they can remit the
dues of members who are serving with the armed forces of the United
States.

Ordinarily the Inspector of the district would be authorized to open
the Lodge in the name of the Grand Master, but because of the distance
he would have to travel and other difficulties imposed because of the
war, I authorized the Master-elect, who is also a Past Master of the
Lodge, to convene the Lodge and install the officers. ·

x
During my absence from. the jurisdiction, the following letter was
referred to the Deputy Grand Master.
"Does the request for restoration after being suspended more than two
years have to be referred to a committee? . . . How are we to know
that during the time of his suspension he had not served time in ·prison
or had committeed some other Masonic offense?"
"We find nothing to obligate the Lodge to have an investigating
committee."
The Deputy Grand Master gave the following answer in which I
concur:
"I have gone over Section 260 of the Ordinances and must agree with
you that there is no provision for the appointment of a committee to
investigate the application of a brother who has been suspended for
more than two years.
"I do not feel, however, that the fact that there is no constitutional
provision for the appointment of a committee relieves the Master from
considering very carefully such an application. The very fact that you
are required to hold over an application until the next stated meeting,
indicates very clearly that time is ptovided for investigation or consideration.
"In most cases where the applicant is a resident of the community in
which the Lodge is located, he is undoubtedly well known and the members can very readily make up their minds as to whether or not they
wish to restore him. In other cases where the applicant has not been
a resident of the jurisdiction of the Lodge for some time, it might be
somewhat difficult to find out about the conduct of the member during
the time of his suspension.
"I feel that it is definitely the responsibility of the Master to protect
his Lodge · by instituting such an investigation as may be practical. He
may either appoint a committee to investigate and report or he may
request a Lodge where the suspended brother now resides to investigate,
or he may require the bro~her to make a statement as to what he has
been doing during the period of suspension, which statement may be
supported by references to persons who can support the statement.
"I feel that it is entirely proper for you to raise this question, but I
do believe that the mere absence of constitutional requirement does not
relieve either the Master or the Lodge from satisfying themselves fully
before voting on such application."

Section 255 of the Constitution states that dues may be remitted annually to members who render special service for the Lodge or who are
u.nable to pay th~m, or by special resolution applicable .only to the particular member mvolved, who in the sound judgment of the Lodge,
should, by reason of some misfortune, inability, or other good cause, be
exempt from the payment of dues, and who either shall have been a
member for forty years or more, or shall have attained the age of
seventy years.
There is no question but that the men in the armed forces are rendering a spe.cial service not only to their Lodges but to all humanity, but I
feel certam that the framers of our Constitution did not have that kind 'o f
service in mind. Therefore, under the law as it is now written there
is no author_ity f~r the remission of dues to members of our Lodges
:vho are ~~rvmg with the armed forces of the nation, if they are financially
.
m a position to . pay them.

XII
~any. cases have. come before me this year regarding the physical
quahficat10ns of candidates. This matter has been dealt with, I presume,
by e.very Grand Master and the laws seem perfectly clear on the subject,
but it seems that no language has yet been found, so simple that all can
understand. T?e P?int I have tried to bring to .the attention of Lodges is,
that the .question 1~ not :vhether or not the Lodge is willing to accept
the candidate, but 1f he is able to conform to the requirements of the
several degrees.

One Lodge wrote me that they. would like my advice about a man who
had lost a leg.
I quote from the letter.
."We are cognizant. of the regulation and decisions on physical qualifiHowever, due to the exceptional merit of the
apphcant. we .want to find out if there is any possible way we could
accept him without the . dang~r of losing our charter. It is hoped that
there has been a change of attitude on this type of case for the sentiment
in t~e ~odge is such that we have been strongly tem~ted to accept the
apphcatlon as we want to do the thing which will be best for Masonry."
catl~ns for membership.

To this letter was attached the following note:
"!his ".oung man and his family stands V.:ell in our community. The

sent~me?t m the Lodge seems to be unanimous in favor of accepting the

apphcahon and the matter has become quite critical. I am writing to
you as I want "to exhaust all sources of help. If there is any 'loop hole'
I want. to take it."
I replied as follows:
" In your letter of July 1st you state that you have an application for
the degrees which you would like very much to receive but that the
physical qualifications of · the applicant are questionable.' You explain
that he lost a leg in an accident several years ago.
"Section 208 of the Constitution and Sections 879, 880, 881 , 882, 883

516

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and 884 of the Ross Digest leave no room for question. The applicant is
not physically able to conform to the requirements of the several degrees
and the application should not be received.

at which the application for affiliation accompanied by the REQUEST
FOR DIMIT, is presented to the Lodge.

"You say that you are familiar with the laws governing such cases, but·
due to the exceptional merit of the applicant you want to find out if
there is any way possible in which you can receive the application, without danger of losing the charter of your Lodge. You furtper state that
the sentiment in your Lodge is .strongly in favor of accepting the application; that, if there is any 'loop hole' in the law, you wish to take advantage of it.
"May I again remind you that the laws are quite .clear on this subject
and as Master of your Lodge it is your duty to obey them in the spirit
as well as the letter, rather than try to find some 'loop hole' through
which you may evade them.
"This matter has come before the Grand Lodge many times and the
present law has been repeatedly sustained.
"If the law permitted a Lodge to receive the application of one who
has lost a leg, it could not logically refuse to accept the application of one
who has lost an arm or perhaps both arms. It would then be a question
of the extent of the physical insufficiency. Where would we draw the
li?e and who would be the judge?
·
"I am sure that, calm reflection will show you the wisdom of the law
as it now stands."
Another Lodge wrote me three times about a candidate who had been
afflicted with infantile paralysis and could walk only with the aid of braces
on both legs and a cane or crutch.
This Lodge argued that the candidate could conform to the requirements of the several degrees.
I held that he could not conform to the requirements of the first
degree, to say nothing of the other degrees and that I could not picture
this candidate receivio.g any of the degrees of Masonry. I informed the
Lodge that the application could not be accepted.

XIII
Among the powers granted to the Grand Master is that of granting
dispensation to receive and act upon the applications for the degrees of
persons belonging to the army and navy of the United States who do
not possess the necessary qualifications of residence.
I have beeri asked if this could not also apply to workers in vital war
industries.
I held that it could not . .

XIV
There have been presented to me so many questions relative to <limits
that it has seemed wise to group the various situations and the rulings
which I have made on them. The questions concerned the requirement
that dues be paid three months in advance and interpretations of this
part of the law have most frequently been requested.
Case 1. I was asked if the three months in advance dates from the
date the application for affiliation accompanied by the .REQUEST FOR
DIMIT is signed by the applicant, or from the date of the stated meetihg

517

I held that dues must be paid at least three months in advance from
the date of the stated meeting at which the application for affiliation,
accompanied by the REQUEST FOR DIMIT, is presented to the
Lodge.
Case 2. I was asked if three months in advance sfiould be construed literally to mean from the first day of the first month in the
quarter, or from the date of the stated meeting of that month.
I held that it must be construed literally to mean the first day of the
first month of the quarter.
Case 3. A member of Lodge "A" whose dues were paid to December 1, 1942, applied for affiliation in Lodge "B" at the October stated
meeting, and signed a REQUEST FOR DIMIT.
I held that his dues were not paid three months in advance.
In this connection I was asked if°it was necessary that the REQUEST
FOR DTMIT be read at a stated meeting before it could be issued, and
I held that it must be so read.
I was also asked what the situation would be if Lodge "B" was
dilatory in the matter and did not forward the REQUEST FOR DIMIT
to Lodge "A" in time for them to take action. I held that if at the time
Lodge "A" received the REQUEST FOR DIMIT in January the member was not in good standing, the DIMIT could not be issued. I further
held that he must pay dues for the next quarter in order to be in standing
at their stated meeting in January.
·
Case 4. A member of Lodge "A" whose dues were paid to December 1, 1942, applied for affiliation in Lodge "B" subsequent to the
stated meeting of October, and prior to the November stated meeting,
and signed a REQUEST FOR DIMIT.
I held that his dues were not paid three months in advance.
I was asked if he might pay for one additional month in order to
have his dues paid three months in advance, and I held that under our
law dues must be paid quarterly in advance, and that the applicant would
have to pay for the first quarter of 1943, or until March 31st.
Case 5. In case 4 it was pointed out that the applicant whose dues
were paid to March 31, 1943, might be elected at the December stated
meeting and become a member of Lodge "B" either in December or
January. I was asked when his dues would become payable in Lodge "B".
There are two situations to be considered in answering.
Member "X" elected at the December stated meeting filed his DIMIT
with his application for affiliation , and his dues commenced January 1st.
Member "Y" filed a REQUEST FOR DIMIT with his application
for affiliation and the DIMIT was received at the January stated meeting,
and his dues commenced February 1st.

In answer to the statement that he would then be paying in two
Lodges at the same time, one of which he was not a member, I held
that his obligation was to Lodge "B" and that that Lodge was not concerned with any settlement he might, or might not be able to make with
Lodge "A" for the return of dues paid in advance.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Case 6. A member of Lodge "A" whose dues were paid to December 31, 1942, desiring to voluntarily withdraw from his Lodge, made
a request at the December stated meeting for his DIMIT.

that no one noticed that the candidate did not possess the necessary
physical qualifications until after the degree had been conferred.
"It is inconceivable that the Junior Warden, who conferred the degree
woul.d not have noticed this fact at the altar, before the obligation. This
cand1dat~ could not have been properly investigated and I naturally
wonder 1f the rush of degree work in your Lodge is causing a laxity of
investigation with regards to other candidates as well.
"You state in your letter of November 11th ' ... I have personally interviewed the investigators since the conferring of this degree and also the
recommendors and none of them seem to realize or know enough about
the constitution to know that this man was not eligible to receive the
degrees of Masonry.'

518

I held that the member was in good standing and that if there were
no charges pending against him he was entitled to his DIMIT.
Case 7. A member of Lodge "A" whose dues were paid to December
31, 1942, desiring to voluntarily withdraw from his Lodge, made the
request subsequent to the December stated meeting and prior to the
January, 1943, stated meeting.
I held that the request must be made at a stated meeting and that
at the January stated meeting when the request could be received, the.
member was not in good standing and a DIMIT could not be properly
issued.

519

It is somewhat surpnsmg and certainly gratifying to look back over
a busy year of service to so large a jurisdiction as ours and find that the
harmony of the craft has been disturbed in only two cases, which I here
report, not as decisions but that this Grand Lodge may have full knowledge of my actions.

"I quote from the last paragraph of a decision by Grand Master Ross,
found on page 270 of the Ross Digest, dealing with the subject of Investigating Committees. 'In the exercise of this most important executive
function, the Master should not only direct his committees but should
see to it that the members that he appoints on his committees are instructed so that they will be qualified to discharge the important functions with which they are charged.' This, you evidently failed to do.
"In this instance, your failure to perform the full duties of your office
brings injury to an innocent man, the candidate. Either a candidate can
conform, physically, to the requirements of the several degrees or he
cannot. In this case there is no doubt but that he could not.
"I cannot take away the degree already conferred, neither could I
justify my actions if I were to tell you to proceed with the conferring of
the remaining degrees. One mistake can never be corrected by making
another.
"It is my order that the candidate be held as an Entered Apprentice
Mason and that i! be noted in the Lodge records that he is being so
held because of physical insufficiency. It is further ordered that the
entire fee paid by the candidate be returned to him.''

One of our Lodges conferred the Entered Apprentice degree upon
a candidate who was clearly ineligible because of the loss bf a portion
of his right hand. The case was reported to me and I wrote the Master,
asking for full details. I quote a portion of his letter.
"My investigation committee reported full and favorably upon the
candidate prior to his initiation . . . . Inasmuch as the work load of the
Lodge has been extra heavy, I have found it impossible to investigate or
contact all the candidates prior to their initiation as I had hoped to do
at the beginning of my year, therefore, on the night of this candidate's
initiation, and we were shy some of our regular officers, I did not get the
opportunity to meet this candidate until the end of the first section. . . .
The first degree was conferred on this candidate and he has not received
any coaching up to the present time . . . . Will state further that I have
personally interviewed the investigators since the conferring of this degree
and also the recommepdors and none of them seem to realize or know
enough about the constitution to know that this man was not eligible to
receive the degrees of Masonry."
After several letters had been written to the Master of the Lodge, I
was finally able to elicit sufficient information, upon which to render a
decision. I quote from my last letter.
"I believe your last letter completes the answers to the several questions I have asked. You state that four other candidates received the
first degree the same night and that you and your officers were so busy

One of our Inspectors reported to me that, in one of his Lodges an
objection had been made to the initiation of a candidate and that the
first and second degrees had been conferred, without the objection having
been withdrawn. The Inspector called upon the Master and learned from
him that, after the objection had been made he had asked two Past
Masters of the Lodge to make a further irtyestigation and that, after
having done so, they reported that they could find nothing wrong with
the candidate and recommended that he proceed with the conferring of
the degrees. I wrote the Master as follows:
"I have been informed by your Inspector that your Lodge acted upon
the petition of Mr. - - - at the stated meeting of September 4, 1942,
and after he was declared elected, an objection was made by one of
your Past Masters. That, · without the objection being withdrawn, you
proceeded to confer the first and second degrees upon the candidate.
"The Inspector further states that, on the evening of December 1st
he called you on the telephone and asked if you knew of the objection.
You informed him that you did; that you had asked one of your Past
Masters to make a further investigation but that he could find nothing
against the candidate. You then stated that you had talked with two
Past Masters of your Lodge and was advised by them that they knew of
nothing wrong with the candidate and suggested that you confer the
degrees, in spik of the laws of Grand Lodge.

I held that he must pay his dues quarterly in advance as required by
our law, in order to place himself in goo<;!. standing.
Case 8. In connection with most of the above cases I was asked
whether it was the business of Lodge "A" or the business of Lodge "B"
to make certain that the member's dues were paid three months in' advance at the time his application for affiliation accompanied by the
REQUEST FOR DIMIT was received.
I held that every Lodge in the · jurisdiction is held responsible for
the fulfilling of the law and that it is the business of both Lodges "A"
and "B" to make certain that the law is complied with in every case.

xv

XVI

520

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"If this is the atti.tude of your Past Masters towards the laws of the
fraternity, I suggest that they refrain from giving their advice in the
future, as to the proper coriduct of the Lodge.

"I do not, however, excuse you in the least. As Master of your Lodge
you are expected to be versed in the laws of the fraternity and your
attempt to shoulder the blame on these Past Masters is, to say . the least,
reprehensible.
"By your disregard of the laws, you have shown yourself to be entirely
unfitted to preside as Master of a Masonic Lodge and were it not for
the fact that your term is so near an end, I would exercise the powers
of my office to remove you from that station. I am inclined to believe
that either weakness or ignorance is the cause of your actions and for that
reason I am permitting you to retire from office with the honorable title
of Past Master, to which you have really forfeited all rights.
"The candidate received the first and second degrees and should be
recognized as a fellowcraft and after one year from his passing, should
be permitted to present .his application to the Lodge, to receive the
degree of Master Mason with the usual reference to committee and ballot
by the Lodge.
"It is further ordered that the fee for the third degree be returned to
the candidate and that ·he be advised that an objection has been made
to his raising.
·
"It is my direction that this letter be read at the next stated meeting
o~ the Lodge and that the contents be spread upon the minutes of that
meeting and that I be advised by the Secretary, under seal of the Lodge,
that this order has been carried out in full."

Recommendations
With practically the entire world at war to determine whether men
shall remain free or become the slaves of dictators, having the power of
life ·and death, it is gratifying_ to know that the principles and teachings
of Masonry are still commending themselves to men. But with the unprecedented number of petitions being presented to 01;1r Lodges it might
be well for us to pause and take stock.
Many men are applying for the privileges of Masonry who have no
conception of what it is or what it stands for. They only know that it
is the largest as well as the oldest and most honorable of fraternal organizations and that a certain prestige is attached to membership therein.
Their petitions are presented, not with the thought that they may be
useful to the craft and their fellow-men, but are prompted by selfish
desires to get what they can out of ·it without giving anything in return.
Many of these men are gaining admission because the investigation was
slip-shod or incomplete or some brother did not possess the fortitude to
refuse to sign their petitions or for the reason that the Lodge is overly
anxious to build up a large membership. The reasons are many and
varied but regardless of the cause, the effect is always the same; the
lowering of our standards of membership.
Masonry has been handed down to· us through the ages, not as our
exclusive property, to do with as we see fit, but ours only for the short
span of our lives; to practice and enjoy and then to pass on to succeeding
generations in all its beauty; in possession of all its strength and splendor.
It should be our determination to so live our lives, that Masonry shall
not suffer because of our membership but, on the contrary that our
efforts in its behalf may add something beneficial to it. This is the rule

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

521

.b.y which a sincere Mason measures himself. Surely, then,· he has the
. ;1ght to a~p.ly that same rule to any other man who seeks a participation
m our privileges and if he does not measure up to that standard, he
should not be elected to membership. If Masonry is to continue to play
~he part alloted t.o it. and is to maintain the high position it has occupied
m all ages past, 1t will be becau·se this and future generations of Masons
have kept a watchful eye on its portals and have allowed none to enter
except such as are duly qualified.
'
I requested the Grand Secretary to send a questionnaire to all Lodges
in the jurisdiction to ascertain how many Entered Apprentices and Fellowcrafts are being carried on the rolls of the Lodges, who have been stopped
by Lodge action. As of September first, with approximately three-fourths
of the reports returned, there were more than eight hundred.
I call your attention to the laws of this Grand Lodge. That before
initiation, a candidate can be rejected by any member of the Lodg; merely
by making an objection to the Master. After a candidate has been
initiated, this is not the case. The objection must be stated to the
Master and if the cause seems insufficient to him, he shall state the
matter to the Lodge at the next stated meeting and the Lodge shall then
decide, whether or not further investigation shall be made. After the
investigation, the matter is again presented to the Lodge and the Lodge
decides whether or not the candidate shall be permitted to advan.ce. ·
I can understand how one man might make an invalid objection, but
when the matter has been reviewed by a Lodge and after careful investigation it is decided that the candidate shall not proceed, it must be admitted that the objection is valid and the candidate is unworthy to become
a Mason. In the case of the more than eight hundred Entered Apprentices
and Fellowcrafts now being carried on the rolls of our Lodges, perhaps
some of them did not desire to proceed further, and stopped of their
own volition, but they form a very small percentage of the total. In the
great majority of cases they have been stopped becau'se some brother has
entered an objection and the qbjection has been sustained by the Lodge.
Then we must admit that, if they were found unworthy of advancement,.
they must have been unworthy at the time they were elected and initiated
or passed, but no objection was made because the membership generally
did not know that their applications had been received.
It has often been said that, if a member desires to know what is going
on in his Lodge, he should attend its meetings. It is even pointed out
that it is his duty to do so. It has been further argued that the membe.rs
should know who is applying for the degrees. During this year it has
been necessary for me to be away from my home a large part of the time.
I have not attended the meetings of my Lodge with any degree of
regularity, because I have not be~n at home on the nights they have been
held. Can it be said that I have no right to know what is going on in
my Lodge; that it is none of my business who have presented applications
to my Lodge, because I was not present to hear them read by the Secretary? I contend that any member, whether he attends his Lodge or not,
so long as he keeps himself in good standing, is entitled to know who is
asking for admission, and he certainly has the right to pass on the eligibility of applicants and to object to the admission of those, who in his
opinion have no place in our fraternity.
When an application is presented to a Lodge it is read by the Secretary
to perhaps . twenty per cent of the members, who happen to be present
at the time. It is then referred to a committee of three men for investigation. Let us assume that the committee conscientiously and carefully

522

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

investigated to the best of its ability, and finding · nothing detrimental to
the character of the applicant, renders a full and favorable report to the
Master. This fact is then reported to the Lodge and the brethren cast
their ballots and the appl~cant is elected solely on the report of the threeman committee. At least seventy-five or eighty per cent of the _members
know nothi~g of the application. Later, one of the absentee brothers discovers that the candidate has been elected, initiated and perhaps passed
to the degree of Fellowcraft. Knowing something against the candidate
• that the committee of investigation failed to discover, which would make
him unworthy to become a Mason, the brother objects to his further
advancement. The objection is upheld by the Lodge and the candidate
is stopped. If the objector had known of the reception of the application or
had heard about it before initiation, he would doubtless have made the
objection at that time and the candidate would have been rejected. But
because this fact is not made known to the entire membership we are
carrying the names of hundreds of men upon our rolls who are n"o t
worthy of the. honors we have conferred upon them. Masonry can mean
nothing to them and their membership in the fraternity can mean nothing
to us, except as an object lesson, that we are too lax in our investigation
of candidates. If the time ever comes when Masonry ceases to be 'attractive to good men, it will be because we have allowed too many men of
questionable character. and integrity to affiliate with us. We have made
it too ea'sy to become members and we have admitted too many members
who will never become Masons.
I recommend that our Lodges be required to notify their member.s of
all applications for the degrees or for affiliation, within ten days after their
reception by the Lodge. That the notice shall carry the full names, residence and business addresses and the age and occupations of the
applicants.
·
This may be new to California Masonry, but it is not an innovation,
as this practice has been followed by several of the largest jurisdictions
of the United States, inch:1ding New York,. Massachussetts and Pennsylvania, together with every Grand Lodge in the Dominion of Canada and
many of the G'r and Lodges of the world. If a candidate is passed upon
by every member of the Lodge and is elected, we may feel assured that
·he is worthy and well qualified. If he cannot pass this test, Masonry will
be better off without him.
Section 100 of the constitution provides for a contribution of $25.00 for
the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes of California. Said amount to
be paid by each applicant for the degrees and by each applicant for
affiliation, unless such contribution has ·previously been made upon a
former application either for the degrees or affiliation, to a Lodge in this
jurisdiction. This section further provides that contributions collected
by the Lodges shall be transmitted to the Grand Secretary on the first
day of November, February, May and August, subsequent to the initiation
of applicants for degrees or the election of applicants for affiliation.
Provision is made for the return of the unused portion of fees for the
degrees in cases where the applicant dies after reciving the first degree
or the first and second degrees and al~o for the ·unused portion of the
fees where an objection has been made and sustained by the Lodge to
the passing or raising of th.e candidate. In cases such as these no provision
is made for the return of the contribution to the Masonic Homes.
·
A d~cision fo'u nd on p·a ge -215 of the R~ss Digest, approved by Grand
Lodge, specifically states that the contribution to the Masonic Homes:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

523

cannot be returned after death of an initiate. The word "initiate" has
been defined as one who has received the first degree.

.Wh~re the fees for the degrees are $75.00, the Lodge collects $100 0 00
wh1c? incl~des ~he contribution to the Homes. It is presumed that th~
cand1dat: is. advised of the fact that he is making this contribution but
I have inqmred of many newly initiated Masons and find that the~ do
not know of the contribution but were told that the fees were $100.00 and
they naturally understood that the entire amount was for the degrees.
I do nc;>t claim that a Lodge enters into a co~tract with an applicant
when he 1.s el~cted to receive the degrees, but I do contend that an
understanding 1s had _by the. candidate that he will receive all three
de~~ees for the sum paid by him and will be entitled to all the rights and
privileges of a Master Mason.
_ Wh~re a candid~te refuses to present himself for the degrees, the Lodge
has a nght to retain the fees, but where a candidate dies before receiving
all the d~gre~s or has been stopped by action of the Lodge, I feel that
the contnbutton. to the Masonic Homes should be returned along with
the unused portion of th~ fees for t~e degrees. We have no right to
acc.e pt money fro!11 a candidate for which we give him nothing in return.
Neither he nor his dependents can be admitted to the Homes or receive
any of the benefits of Masonic charity in case of need.
It i~ c?mparable to one ordering a bill of merchandise, for which he
has paid ~n advance a~d then having the merchant inform him that he
does not intend to deliver the merchandise but that he is going to keep
the money. If. that shoul~ happen to anyone in this Grand Lodge, I am
sure a law suit would qmckly follow. Yet, in substance that is exactly
what we say to the candidate who does not receive all the degrees.
· I recornmend that the contribution to the Masonic Homes be paid
to. the Grand Secretary by the Lodges, after the applicant has been
raised to th~. degree of Master Mason and that, "in the event he dies before
he .has received that degree or has been prevented .' from receiving it by'
action of the Lodge, that it be returned.
Conclusion
. I realiz~ that it wou!d be. impossible for any Grand Master to accomplish anything wo~th:whtle without the splendid cooperation of the several
officers and committeemen of Grand Lodge. The assistance given me this
year by thes~ brethren has been of inestimable value to me and to the
great fraternity I have been privileged to sen·e.

A~ times it has. been necessary ~o make extraordinary demands ~po~
the time an.d energies of the Inspectors of many of the districts. I have
found them more tha~ willing to help in any way possible and I assure
them of my deep gratitude and appreciation.
·
To mention .the nai:nes of all who have supported me so splendidly tpis
year would b.e 1mposs1ble, but I make speci.al mention of Most Worshipf?l Lloyd Wilson, Grand ,Secretary, Worshipful Henry D. Oliphant, As- ·
s1stant Gran.d Secreta.ry and the members of that office. I know that the'
load of special work in. the Gran~ Secretar:(s office has caused these two
officers to work long into the mght on many occasions, but nci matter·
ho:V busy they may have been, they have always found time to do 'j ust
a li!tle more. It has been necessary ·for me to call upon them many times
d~ring the year an.d .to them I -express my ·sincere thanks for their immediate and helpful assistance. .
·

524

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I am appreciative of the many courtesies and acts of kindness shown
me by Lodge officers throughout the entire jurisdiction. The many manifestations of brotherly love have made very pleasant, what would otherwise have been a trying and difficult year.
-If the efforts of the year are deserving of any praise or commendation,
I would like it to be given to those who have earned it-my brethren of
California. A Grand Master can do nothing by himself and he cannot lead
unless the brethren are willing to follow. One of the finest things I hay_e
received this year is the friendship of so many of my brethren. I shall
keep and preserve that long after I have laid down the gavel of authority.
I have discharged the duties of this office to best of my ability, with
a full realization of my limitations. If I have made mistakes along the
way, they have been of the head and not the heart. The sweetness of the
year wilr live long in my memory and any discordant note that may
have been sounded will be forgotten. For the great honor you have
accorded me, I thank you from the depths of a grateful heart. As I pass
the gavel over to one so worthy of receiving it may I say that I do not
return to the ranks, because I never left them.
And now, my brethren, may God, in his infinite mercy watch over
you and keep you always.
Respectfully submitted,
U:sLIE E. Woon, Grand Master.

The Deputy Grand Master referred the Grand Master's Message to the following committee on Segregation: Ralph K. Pierson, Paul Townsley, and \Villiam Thompson.
REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
To the Most Worshipf1'l Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my second annual report as
your Grand Secretary.
Last year I reported that the war had caused a vast increase in the amount
of work required of ithe office and I now report that there has been an additional increase in the year just closed.
In spite of a number of staff changes due to war conditions, we have been
able to maintain an adequate staff most of the time. It has done an excellent
job in the various duties which have arisen, both with the regular work of the
office, and with the work occasioned by the war program.
We have continued our practice of meeting with groups of secretaries
throughout the jurisdiction whenever possible and these meetings have proved
to be of great value.
During ithe year a new secretaries' association was formed in San Diego
and a meeting was held with the San Gabriel Valley secretaries, looking toward
the organization of that group. In this connection I am pleased to report that,
with buit: a few exceptions, the co-operation of the secretaries throughout the
State in all matters relating to the Grand Lodge office has been excellent and
there is a general disposition on their part to perform their work efficiently
and promptly.
War Program
One phase of war work which creates a tremendous volume of correspondence and record work is in relation to the requests for courtesy degrees.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

525

Since the war started we have received from other grand jurisdictions requests
for courtesy degrees totaling 2,274. During the same period we ourselves have
requested 823 degrees by courtesy.
We have received approximately one thousand requests per month during
the past year from other grand jurisdictions to contact their members in California in the armed forces and we have been able to follow all of these requests promptly because of the co-operation of the lodges and the inspectors.
. A~ outstanding war program of this grand jurisdiction, and again one:.
which. involves much correspondence and detailed records, is the acceptance of
dues m trust .of members of lodges in the Philippine Islands. Thus far we
have carried on correspondence with 529 different individuals and of these we
have been able to complete 466 cas~s. The remainder are pending and will no
· doubt be satisfactorily completed in due time. As shown by the audit there
was, as of July 31, 1943, $7,065.99 in the trust fund for the Grand· Lodge of
the Phillippine Islands, and as of September 28, 1943, the total is $7,502.35.
.
The. War Registration Service is another part of the war program entailmg considerable correspondence, records, and the preparation of many forms.
As of September 28, 1943, 8,866 war service certificates have been issued to
members of our lodges in the armed forces.
The preparation and distribution of the Grand Lodge Bulletin, of necessary
promotional ma~erials, the transmitting of Certificates of Merit, the receiving
of and accounting for funds, and the correspondence entailed in these functions, all essential to the successful prosecution of the Masonic War
Reli~f Fund, have been performed in the Grand Lodge office.
Lodges
One dispensation to form a new lodge was issued during the year to
Fortitude Lodge U. D., Chungking, China. The membership and financial
status of this lodge under dispensation are not included in any of the reports
herein set ·forth. Under the circumstances it has 'seemed wise to keep their
reports entirely separate, whenever they are received, since the ultimate plan
qf, the Grand Master in granting the dispensation_ was to hold the lodge and
all of its funds for final disposition by the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands.
During the year there has been one consolidation, thus reducing the total
number of lodges to 581. The consolidation was between Welcome Lodge
No. 255 at Lemoore and Riverdale Lodge No. 496 at Riverdale and became
official on May 18, .1943, with the new lodge being known as Welcome Lodge
No. 255 at Lemoore.
Unfinished B usiness
The following items of unfinished business are brought forward from the
last communication:
1. Monthly membership return system, referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence for report at this communication. (Page 362-1942 Proc.)
2. The Grand Lecturer's recommendation relative to inspectoral districts in
Hawaii, referred for disposition to this communication. (Page 363-1942 Proc.)
3. Re:solution introduced by John Johnston, Past .Master and Secretary of
George Washington Lodge No. 525, to amend Sections 298 and 308 of the
Ordinances and postponed to this communication. (Page 368-1942 Proc.)
Legislation
Last year we repor~ed the inauguration of a new monthly membership
return system. At that time we did not ask for legislation because we wanted
to thoroughly test the plan out. The plan has been in operation for one full

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

year and iii our judgment has been highly successful. We, therefore, ask that
legisla1ion be presented officially establishing the monthly membership return
system, and in this connection we also recommend that appropriate action be
taken relative to Section 204, since special forms for restorations and suspensions will no longer be required, they being reported on the monthly membership re1urn.
·

Name and Lodge
Date of Raising
Adai"r, Charles James, California No. !....................................September 14, 1893
Allen, Joseph Coit, Parnassus No. 388................,............·.................January 3, 1893
Arwine, James Tevis, Lancaster No. 437....................................December 22, 1892

526

Audits
Immediately following the death of the Most Worshipful William P.
Filmer, Grand Treasurer, at the direction of the Grand Master, I caused an
audit to be made of all of our accounts covering the period of August 1, 1942,
to December 31, 1942. This audit will be found elsewhere in the reports.
Under the prevailing system of auditing, the annual returns due August
15th of each year are not audited until the following August. The fw1ds
received with the annual returns this year approximated $290,000 and it seemed
to me that a supplementary audit would be in order certifying rt:o the fact that
the moneys due the Grand Lodge had been collected by the Grand Secretary
and had been properly paid over by him to the Grand Treasurer. I accordingly
made such a recommendation to the Grand Master and with his approval
caused such supplementary audit to be made, which appears elsewhere in the
records.
Membership
In presenting the membership figures for the year I have supplied figures
for 1916, 1917, 1918, 1941, 1942 and 1943. This represents a quarter of a century in years and a comparable time in relation to the two world wars. The
effect of this war can very readily be seen from a study of these figures. It
would be profitable !°or all members of the fraternity to study the figures presented herewith in relation to figures available in our Proceedings for the
years following the last war.
.
1916
1917
1918
1941
1942
1943
6
Number of lodges formed ......
3
3
'
Initiated ........................................ 3,760 4,042 4,890
3,176
4,072
7,344
6,092
Passed .......................................... 3,618 3,835 4,677
3,030
3,698
3,105
3,571 . 5,525
Raised ........................................._ 3,513 3,869 4,551
1,063
885
1,051
Affiliated
933
930
806
Gained by err.:ir..........................
74
2
10
245
191
539
545
840
. Reinstated ···············-···-·············· 126
764
725
1,003
864
919
Withdrawn .................................. 753
Suspended for non-payment of
717
609
1,660
997
dues ........................................ 638
1,3~9
Suspended or expelled for
14
12
11
6
23
18
cause ........................................
76
10
4
Loss by error..............................
864
810
2,188
2,233
2,299
Died .............................................. 814
Number of members July 31....57,856 60,384 63,986 125,842 126,317 129,510
397 4,128
3,983
3,566
3,015
Dues remitted ..............................
343
Loss ---············-····························
475
3,1.93
Gain ...................~ ........................... 2,515 2,528 3,593
385
582
582
581
379
Number of lodges...................... 377

.

527

Bachman, A11thur, Fidelity No. 120........................................................May 12, 1892
Banks, William Roberts, East San Diego No. 561.................. September 28, 1892
Benner, Harry, Oakland No. 188......................................._......... November 12, 1892
Bigelow, Edwin Wells, Mission No. 169......................- ........................May 27, 1891
Boarman, Charles, Bear Mountain No. 76..................................:......... May 11, 1892
Boone, Thomas Lee, Olive Branch· No. 269...................... :.........February 26, 1892
Bornstein, Morris Sello, Fidelity No. 120...............,..................December 22, 1892
Boyer, John Franklin, Wilshire No. 445...................................... February 17, 1888
Brown, Charles Milton, Redlands No. 300.................................. September 5, 1892
Brown, James, Turlock No. 395 .............................................................March 2, 1893
Bruns, George W., Anaheim No. 207.......................................... November 19, 1892
Brooks, Joseph Terrill, Fraternity No. 399..........................._...-December 2, 1892
Burdick, Albert C., Alpha No. 431.......,..................:........... ,.................April 19, 1893 ,
Carew, Cornelius W., Fruitvale No. 336........................................January 21, 1899
Chalfant, Harold Philbrick, Oaiborne No. 185.......- ...............December 17, 1982
Clark, Charles B., Janesville No. 232.................................•................ April 20, 1893
Clark, George Cook, Fullerton No. 339.................................................. May 15, 1893
Coulter, John Newton, Santa Ana No. 241................•................ Septembeer 4, 1893
Crouch, Charles Wiley, Calistoga No. 233............................'.............:]une 17, 1893
Davis, Frederick Calvin, Gold Hill No. 32..............:.....................February 6 1892
DeWitt, John Wallace, Antioch No. 175.............................................July 28, 1893
Dixon, Samuel W., King Solomon No. 260..........................................July 17, 1893
Donahoo, Frank Leslie, San Jose No. 10'....................................December 19, 1892
Dunning, Willie Albion, Hills Ferry No. 236..................._..... :.......March 10, 1893
Finch, John Milton, Forbestown No. 50....................................September 25, 1893
Frederick, Morris H., Gold Hill No. 32..............:.................................June 24, 1893
Gage, Arthur belos, Elk Grove No. 173.......- ...................: ....... September 30, 1893
Glendenning, Walter E., North Star No. 91................................0ctober 29, 1892
Gorham, Frederick Herbert, Wilshire No. 445....................:............... May 22, 1893
Graham, George D., King Solomon's No. 260.......................... September 11, 1893

•••OOOOO OOOOo oo••oOOOOOHOO O OoOOO . .

Fifty-Year Buttons
Following is a list of the veteran brethren who received fifty-year buttons
during this fiscal year :

Hettinger, Joseph G., San Fernando No. 343..........._...........................May 6, 1892
Hildebrant, Charles H., Hermann No. 127..:.......................................July 17, 1893
Hiller, Philip A., Eel River No. 147.................:...........•............•.........,.June 24, 1893
Hilton, Albert John, Long Beach No. 327........................................ Ma.rch 18, 1889
Hubbard, Clinton DeWitt, Rising Light No. 397..............,.................March 4, 1893
Hughes, John William, Bell No. 483....,.........................................January 22, 1893
Irish, Spencer Kline, Oakland No. 188..........................._............... August 26, 1893
Jerome, James J., James A. Foshay No. 641.................................... March 11, 1891
Jones, Joseph Lewis, White Pine No. 555......................................December 1, 1888
Jones Ralph Taylor, Chico No. 111.............................................. September 10, 1892
Jord;n, Fred Murray, Yount No. 12.................................,.................... May 17, 1893
King, Edward Clarence, Pajaro No. 110...............:............:,..............January 4, 1893
Kingsbury, J. Grant, Fallbrook No. 317..................................,............. April 9, 1891
Kjellburg, Gunnar, Evergreen No. 259..............................................March 20, 1893
Kowanda, Thomas, Vacaville No. 134..........................- .;....................April 21, 1893
Kranz, Julius, Meridian No. 667.............................................,........ 0ctobet 10, 1892
Kutner, Alfred, Sanger No. 316............................_..•..........c••••••••••••••••••April 6, 1,893
Laiclaw, Charles R., Santa Cruz No. 38......................................November 28, 1892

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

528

Name and Lodge
Date of Raising
Lee, Elon Nelson, Jr., York No. 423.....:..............:.............,........... February 6, 1893
Lohrmann, Richard, Marin No. 191.........................:..'.................... November 7, 1892
Loring, William Jos., Bear Mountain No. 76...................................:April 22, 1891
Lowenberg, Albert J., King Solomon's No. ·260.................... September 21, 1885
Luce, Isaac Daniel, Olivet No. 205......................................._.......February 13, ·1892
Manuel, Matthew Henry, Qi>hir No. 33 ................................................ May 13, 1893
Marshall, Harry Bateham, Long Beach No. 327..................................April 4, 1893
Martie, Nicklaus; University No. 394................................................ March 29, 1892
· McCready, Edward John, Corinthian No. ·9.............................. December 17, 1892
Moore, John Thomas, Liberty No. 299....................:......................... Mareh 20, 1893
Morrison, Frank Pierce, Redlands No. 300................................ November 21, 1892
Mundt, Francis A., Pacific No. 136......................................................May 16, 1893
Newall, Daniel Boone, Tehachapi No. 313....................•....................... May 24, 189J
Noble, Byron Eldred, Honolulu No. 409...............................,..........January 6, 1891
Peterson, Amel Lance, Alcatraz No. 244..........................................January 7, 1893
Peterson, John H., Wasco No. 583.-.............................................January 7, 1893
Phipps, Leslie E., Hollenbeck No. 319..................................................June 19., 1893
Porter, Abel Williard, California No. L..,............................................ May 25, 1893
Price, David C., Janesville No. 232.................................... :.......... September 9, 1893
Pulcifer, Harry Willis, Oakland No. 188..............................................May 27, 1893
Rachford, John Charles, Alturas No. 248....................................... December 3, 1892
Reid; Alexander Barr, Yosemite No. 99..................,................... September 2, 1893
Reid, William Watsori, Morgan Hill No. 463 ................................August 21, 1889
Reiter, Prosper, Occidental No. 22.......................:.........................,......June 21, 1892
Rickett, Harry, Arcadia No. 547..................:............................................ Jµne 2, 1891
Rowlands, William Edward, Eucalyptus No. 243.....:........................ April 29, 1893
'

'

Smith, Lew, Arcadia No. 547...............,........................................December 14, 1892
Snidecor, George E ., Temescal No. 341...........:............ :.................... March 29, 1893
Strader, Fred E., San Fernando No. 343............................................ April 20, 1893
Simon, James, Yosemite No. 99,...............................................:.........:...April 4, 1893
Stickney, Edwin L., Compass No. 590............................................:.August 25, 1893
Stavnow, Charles Ashworth, Pentalpha No. 202.... :...............................July 7, 1893
Sabin, Jr., John Murray, Brooklyn No. 225...........,......, .....................May 23, 1893
Swanson, Carl, Redwood City No. 168........,..................................... 0ctober 8, 1892
Thomas, Jacob Leighton, Long Beach No. 327..............,................... March 5, 1883
Thornburgh, George Preston, Bakersfield No . .224.................... February 25, 1893
Whitney, Andrew Jackson, Solano No. 229.......,....................................June 5, 1893
Williams, John, King David's No. 209....................................:......1...... May 27, 1893
Wilson, Frederick Warner, A·thens No. 228...................................... April 28, 1888
Wiser, Frank Clayton, Clarence F. Smith No. 482..................November lo, 1~92
Life Memberships
The Grand Master approved resolutions providing for .life memberships
in the following lodges :
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123, eliminating life memberships; Visalia Lodge
No. 128, increasing fee to $250.00 ; Hope Lodge N o. 234, adopting life
membership, $150.00 ; Vallee de France No. 329, increasing fee to $350.00;
Bay View Lodge No. 401, increasing fee to $250.00; Moneta "Lodge No.
405, increasing fee to $400.00; Schofield Lodge No. 443; increasing fee to
$112.50; Delta Lodge No. 471, increasing fee to $400.00, Silver Cord Lodge
No. 505, increasing fee to $500.00; Lakeshore Lodge No. 55~, increasing fee

GRAND.-LODGE OF CALIFORNI~

529

to $300.oO; Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569, increasing fee to $250.00; Riverside Lodge No. 635, increasing fee to $300.00; John P. Jarman Lodge No. 669,
discontinuing life memberships.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master approved the following requests for • special dispen-·
sations for various purposes:
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
Volcano Lodge No. 56, Ione Lodge No. 80, North Star Lodge No. 91,
Nicolaus Lodge No. 129, Phoenix Lodge No. 178, Marin Lodge No. 191
Calistoga Lodge No. 233, Magnolia Lodge No. 242, Fresno Lodge No. 247'.
Lompoc Lodge No. 262, Hesperian Lodge No. 264, Snow Mountain Lodge
No. 271, Traver Lodge No. 294, Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295, Temescal Lodge
No. 314, Fallbrook Lodge No. 317, Brentwood Lodge No. 345, Buena Park
Lodge No. 357, Loyalton Lodge No. 359, Berkeley Lodge No. 363, Artesia
Lodge No. 377 (2), Dinuba Lodge No. 385, Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415,
McCloud Lodge No. 430, San Pasqual Lodge No. 452, Crocker Lodge
No. 454, Argonaut Lodge No. 461, Vallejo Lodge No. 487, Patterson
Lodge No. 488, Argonne Lodge No. 514, Catalina Island Lodge No. 524,
Alexandria Lodge No. 531, Fairfax Lodge No. 556, Manchester Lodge
No. 585, Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598, Three Pillars Lodge No. 613,
Victorville Lodge No. 634, Palisades Lodge No. 637, Lomita Lodge No.
644, Canby Cro'ss Lodge No. 679.
Granting an extension of time to officers to qualify:
.c!aiborne Lodge No. 185, Calistoga. Lodge No. 233, West Gate Lodge
No. 335, Triangle Lodge No. 548, Fairfax Lodge No. 556, Redwood Empire
Lodge No. 683.
To act upon the application of a rejected candidate within twelve months:
Salina·s Lodge No. 204, Vallejo Lodge No. 487, Military Service . Lodge
No. 570.
.
To receive and act upon an application without reference to a committee;
Antioch Lodge No. 175 (2), Santa Ana Lodge No. ?41 (2 ) , Pasadena
Lodge No. 272, Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297, Porterville Lodge No. 303,
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319, Carquinez Lodge No. 337, Berkeley Lodge
No. 363, Parnassus Lodge No. 388, Midway Lodge No: 426, Jonathan
Lodge No. 545, Jubilee Lodge No. 604, Trona Lodge No. 684.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the armed force.>
who lacks the qualification of residence :
Corinthian Lodge No. 9, Naval Lodge No. 87, Pajaro Lodge No. 110,
Phoenix Lodge No. 178 (2), Claiborne Lodge No. 185 (2), Marin Lodge
No. 191, Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192, King David's Lodge No. 209,
Downey Lodge No. 220 (10), North Butte Lodge No. 230, Surprise
Valley Lodge No. 235, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241, Alcatraz Lodge No.
244, Welcome Lodge No. 255, Lompoc Lodge No. 262 (3) , Hesperian
Lodge No. 264 (2), Ashlar Lodge No. 306 (2), Monrovia Lodge No. 308,
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313, Needles Lodge No. 326, Kilauea Lodge No.
330 (8), Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361, Berkeley Lodge No. 363, Las Palmas
Lodge No. 366, Clovis Lodge :No. 417 (2) , Midway Lodge No. 426, Alpha
Lodge No. 431, Lancaster Lodge No. 437, Schofield Lodge No. 443 (4), Maui
Lodge No. 472 (22), Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478, Bay City Lodge
No. 526, Sun Garden Lodge No. 530, Ascot Lodge No. 538, Security
Lodge No. 581, Compass Lodge No. 590, Victorville Lodge No. 634 (2),
Riverside Lodge No. 635, La Cumbre Lodge No. 642 (2), Damascus

.•
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge No. 648 (2), San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668 (3), Modesto Lodge No.
675, Carmel Lodge No. 680, Barstow Lodge No. 682 (5).

No. 502-A former member of Dinuba Lodge No. 385. Suspended December 13, 1927. Petition for restoration, August 11, 1943.
No. 726--A former member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Expelled January 5, 1932. Petition for restoration.
No. 930-A former member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397. Expelled
December 7, 1937. Petition for restoration, August 31, 1943.
No. 946--A former 111ember of Oakland Lodge No. 188. Expelled December 7, 1938. Petition for restoration, August 9, 1943.
No. 990-A former member of Menorah Lodge No. 623. Expelled No- ,
vember 5, 1940. Petition for restoration.

530

Miscellaneous dispensations issued:
Canby Cross Lodge No. 679, ito hold a special meeting to confer third
.degree; Friendship Lodge No. 210, to hold a special meeting; Golden West
No. 455, to hold a special meeting in the Masonic Temple.

Amendments to By-Laws
Increasing fees: Naval Lodge No. 87, to $75.00; Solano Lodge No. 229,
to $75.00; Anchor Lodge No. 273, to $75.00; Vallee de France Lodge No. 329,
to $100.00; Oxnard Lodge No. 341, to $50.00; Balder Lodge No. 393, to
$75.00; Rising Light Lodge No. 397, to $75.00; Bayview Lodge No. 401, to
$75.00; Moneta Lodge No. 405, to $75.00; Kerman Lodge No. 420, to $75.00;
Standard Lodge No. 440, to $75.00; Rockridge Lodge No. 468, to $75.00;
Vallejo Lodge No. 487, to $75.00; Sunrise Lodge No. 522, to $100.00; Utopia
Lodge No. 537, to $75.00, West Adams Lodge No. 565, to $75.00, Chateau ·
Thierry Lodge No. 569, to $75.00, Sunnyside Lodge No. 577, to $75.00; Manchester Lodge No. 585, to $80.00; Valley Forge Lodge No. 587, to $75.00;
Lynwood Lodge No. 600, to $75.00; Normal Heights Lodge No. 632, to
$80.00; Jordan Lodge No. 654, to $75.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Vallejo Lodge No. 487, to $10.00.
Decreasing fees for degrees: Harding Lodge No. 584, to·$50.00.
Decreasing dues: Inyo Lodge No. 221, to $9.00; Selma Lodge No. 277,
to $9.00; Normal Heights Lodge No. 632, to $9.00.
Providing for a change of meefing place: Alcatraz Lodge No. 244, Bay
View Lodge No. 401, Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535, James 'A..
Garfield Lodge No. 566, Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598.
Clianging time of stated meetings: Alcatraz Lodge No. 244, Kilauea
Lodge No. 330, Bay View Lodge No. 401, Maui Lodge No. 472, El Segundo
Lodge No. 507, Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535, Pearl Harbor Lodge
No. 598.
Excepting holidays as Stated Meeting . dates: Evergreen Lodge No. 259.
Adopting the Uniform Code of By-laws: King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.
Changing time of ann11al election to December: McCloud Lodge No. 430.

Trial Records
No. 1019-A member of San Bernardino Lodge No. 348. Expelled September 3, 1942.
No. 1020-A member of Oakland Lodge No. 188. Acquitted October 7,
1942.
No. 1021-A member of Occidental Lodge No. 22. Expelled November 2,
1942.
.No. 1022-A member of Union Lodge No. 58. Expelled January 6. 1943.
No. 1023-A member of Russian River Lodge No. 181. Acquitted November 3, 1942.
No. 1024-A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Acquitted January S, 1943.
No. 1025-A member of Fortitude Lodge No. 624. Suspended April 6,
1943.
No. 1026--A member of Palestine Lodge No. 351. Expelled August 2,
1943.

531

The reports of the auditors follow.
LLOYD

E. WILSON, Grand Secretar3•

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.
For financial reports, see Special Appendix.
REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & 4. M. of California:
Your Grand Treasurer succeeded the revered late Brother, Past Grand
Master and Grand Treasurer, William Parker Filmer, by appointment
of the Grand Master, November 22, 1942. Due consideration of the
interests of Grand Lodge and the responsibility of the appointed Grand
Treasurer prompted an immediate audit of the accounts and records of
the Grand Treasurer. In due course, the auditors, Ruckstell, Burrows &
Webb, submitted their reports for the five months' period from August 1
to December 31, 1942, and, as anticipated, the affairs of the office were
found to be in order.

The funds of the Grand Lodge, Masonic Homes, Endowment, War
Relief, Philippine Island dues and various trusts in custody of the Grand
Treasurer, as such, and as Treasurer of the Masonic Homes, had been
deposited in savings and commercial accounts in banks selected by my
predecessor. These depositaries have been continued. Securities in custody
of the Grand Treasurer, as such, and as Treasurer of Masonic Homes,
had been deposited under an agency account with the Anglo California
National Bank. This arrangement has been continued.
There are some clianges in the law essential to orderly and careful
transactions respecting securities and funds. Consideration of procedure
has resulted in some suggested amendment. The Grand Treasurer is a
constitutional officer of Grand Lodge and his duties are prescribed by
ordinance. Procedure related thereto was designed at a time when the
financial operations of Grand Lodge were much simpler. It would not
be possible for the Grand Treasurer to conform technically without substantial expense, particularly relating to deposit and withdrawal of funds
and payment of authorized accounts and statements. The essential mechanics of disbursement of funds may be performed in a large measure in
the office of the Grand Secretary without disturbing the practical requirements of security. There should be authority to unquestionably legalize
such practical and safe methods.
In March, 1943, a survey of the securities in the Endowment and
Luckenbach Funds was made by· the statistical department of Wells

532

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co. That survey developed an interesting
classification of the securities in those Funds and was accompanied by
recommendations which should have the careful consideration of an investment ·committee. A casual consideration of tlie mounting value of
securities belonging to Grand Lodge ·prompts emphasis on the necessity
of a continuing survey of the portfolio. Securities, whether stocks or bonds,
are in a constant state of flux. The unquestionable duty of making such
a survey should be imposed upon a qualified committee. That committee
should be authorized to make such adjustment and rearrangement of in.vested funds, including diversification, as may be required for protection,
and should have authority to dispose of securities for the benefit of the
portfolio but not for trading purposes.
There is now a Committee on Investment of Endowment Funds which
seems to be properly set up to discharge these enlarged functions.
Careful forethought and administration with respect to investment of
funds have been productive of well selected po_rtfolios, which is indicated
by the excess of market value over book value with respect to investments made ·for the account of Grand Lodge. Included in the securities
of Grand Lodge are stocks and bonds of questionable or unknown value,
some worthless. These have been acquired almost eQtirely by donation.
In this respect, however, attention is invited ·to the substantial donations
of prime securities.
\Vith respect to investments, Grand Lodge should give consideration
to the provisions of Section 655 under Edicts and · Resolutions, entitled
"Regulation as to handling Grand Lodge funds." In view of the fiduciary
character of funds of Grand Lodge, the entire investment . should be
limited to such securities as are authorized for the ~ndowment Fund,
namely, federal, state, county or municipal bonds legal for savings banks.
With respect to receipt and disbursement of funds, and securities in
custody of the Grand Treasurer, reference is made to the _auditors'
report.
An important item in the portfolio to which attention is invited is the
total of government bonds acquired. Treasury bonds, all acquired prior.
to July 31, 1942, total $293,000.00. United States War Bonds acquired
prior to July 31, 1942, total $64,000.00, and United States War Bonds
acquired since July 31, 1942, total $95,100.00. Otherwise the changes that
have occurred are unimportant and due to redemption and sale of securities of nominal value.
Between the closing of the fiscal year of Grand Lodge, July 31st, and
the date of the annual communii;:ation, a substantial amount of the income
of Grand Lodge by way of per capita becomes due and payable. With
regard to this, the Grand Secretary made an important recommendation
that there should be a supplementary audit. The Grand Treasurer unhesitatingly concurred in this recommendation and a supplementary report
of the auditors, of receipts from the closing of the fiscal year, July 31,
1943 to October 1, 1943, wjll be · presented to Grand Lodge for its
information.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING, Grand Treas1weY.

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.
For financial reports, see Special Appendix.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

533

· REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:

This day finds the peoples of our United Nations still at war, but the
crescendo of our battle song has risen to a theme of triumph and we can now
certainly see, in the discernible future, our flags floating gracefully in the
peaceful breeze of full and complete victory. The devastations of this greatest
of all conflicts have not reached the shores of our own United States mainland, though our outposts have been seared in the blue flame of destruction and
our hearts are heavy with the sacrifices made and being made by our sons and
brethren on the far-flung battle lines. On land, at sea and in the air, through
swamp and jungle, across desert sands, over oceans' waves, this maelstrom is
swiftly and surely encomp_assing our enemies, but its edged tides and winds are
'affecting the lives and searing the souls of every man, woman and child. Its
outer ripples and breezes are reaching even into the heart of Masonry and
presenting problems of policy and operations that must be solved. It is my
duty here to report to the brethren of the Grand Lodge of California how our
lodges are riding this storm, to recount what, in relation to the storm itself,
are insignificant triumphs over adversities and to narrate some of the problems that seem to be all but engulfing a few of these, our con.s titutent lodges.
Some of our lodges have prospered even beyond the vision of the most
imaginative, conferring more than 300 degrees in a single Masonic year, doing
this work creditably and efficiently, while other lodges, which in normal times
would be doing a normal year's work, have not had a single application within
the period. A few of our lodges have not lost a line officer during the past
year and are functioning smoothly and efficiently even in these times .of stress.
The majority of them, however, have suffered the loss of one or more such
officers, while several of our lodges now have not a line officer, either elective
or appointive, who was officially at work in his lodge when this great conflict
started. That haven of permanency, the secretary's office, has not been by"
. passed by this storm, and here we also find many new names among the list
of the brethren holding these· irrip6rtant bffices.
This situation has been caused by the flux of society during war times.
Most of the brethren who have been compelled to vacate their stations have
entered the armed forces of the United States, yet many have moved from
the jurisdiction of their lodge to enter civilian war work at other places. The
inspectoral districts have not been immune, an unusual .number of new inspectors having been appointed during this year. One di-strict has even had
two new inspectors since the previous meeting of this Grand Lodge.
These numerous changes of both officers and inspectors have naturally
affected lodge operations and the rendition of the ritualistic work of the several
degrees. There have been momentary saggings of proficiencies, but Masonic
industry and enthusiasm have triumphed, and I am able to report that as yet
there has not been any recession in our degree work, and lodge operations are
going forward "according to plan" and within the bounds of Masonic law and
custom. Although Masonic affairs within the several lodges are in a satisfactory condition, yet this continuing flux of officers is a matter of material
concern. The situation as it develops further under war conditions must be
watched carefully in order that we maintain throughout the State of California our high standards of Masonic work.
· Much credit must ·be and is most cheerfully and graciously given to the
inspectors of the several Masonic districts-that large group of brethren who
continue to labor in the vineyard so industriously for the welfare of Masonry--:for the work this past year has been unusUJ\lly burdensome in the qualifying

534

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and requalifying of brethren for Masonic offices, oftentimes under "forced
draft" conditions. Much credit is also due to the numerous Past Masters of
the several lodges who have accepted election; and even appointment, to fill
vacancies occuring in the lodge offices. These Past Masters have picked up the
burdens of this work with willingness and enthusiasm and their rededication
of service to Masonry has been timely and most effective.

available and the Master of the lodge was compelled to read the service without any apparent familiarity with its language. This has happened all too frequently and to the detriment of Masonry. By requiring the Master to memorize the service, he can always perform the duty admirably should occasion
require, and · the interests of Masonry will be best served by his being so
qualified.
Second, we wish to emphasize a piece of advice given last year in my
report to the Grand Lodge and also touched upon by the Grand Master -in his
remarks this morning. If an officer of a lodge be called to the service of the
United States, the lodge should fill the position by the election or appointment
of a Past Master who will adequately perform the duties of his office and who,
on the return of the brother, will readily and willingly step aside that the line
officer who departed and returned may take up his advancement from where
he left off his Masonic work. It is inadvisable for a brother in the service,
even though he may be temporarily stationed within ·the jurisdiction of his
lodge, to attempt to continue in office, particularly if he happens to be the
Master of his lodge, because he certainly cannot adequately and fully perform
his Masonic duties. Further, from the standpoint of the brother himself, he
will not want to look hack upon his year as Master as one of attempted service to Masonry under these conditions. Honor him on his return when he can
have the privilege and pleasure of efficient performance and may then, ever
after, glory in the accomplishments of his lodge while he was its ac.tive Master.
Third, we wish to further urge the inspectors and the lodge Masters to
arrange for the appointment of an officers' coach in each and every lodge in
California, and to attend to this matter immediately, if they hav.e not already
done so. Restrictions which have been placed upon travel emphasize the
wisdom of our having last year urged that this progressive step in the teaching
of our ritual be taken. In view of the further impending travel limitations, it
is 'doubly important that these specialists in the ritual be appointed in order to
maintain our California proficiency.
Fourth, we wish to urge the inspectors, and also these officers' coaches in
all their schools of instruction to emphasize matters of deliifery, expression and
enunciation, as well as perfection of wording. We know the problems they are
having and will have due to the changing personnel of lodge officers heretofore referred to, hut results can he accomplished in these matters, and this type
of instruction has materially added to the interest in the work, both for the
officers of the lodge and for the brethren on the sidelines, as well as for the
candidates receiving the degrees.

I also want to commend to you the most excellent Masonic services rendered to the Masons of California and to this, their Grand Lodge, by Assistant
Grand Lecturers Sidney K. Lehman, Obed W. Carr, Arthur M. Warren and
Charles A. Schwartz. They have borne well these additional burdens of
their offices.
During the past year the Ritual Committee has held its usual and regular
meetings, its members each time checking with one another the full work of
all three degrees and the candidates' lectures, studying matters of diction, delivery, enunciation and emphasis, as well as accuracy of wording. Problems oi
lodge administration also hav,e been discussed to the end that all might have
an· understanding of problems arising and also that a statewide viewpoint be
applied to the solution of the matters at hand.
Your Assistant Grand Lecturers, in addition to regular attendance at meetings of the Ritual Committee, have been assiduously conducting schools of instruction for the inspectors of their several divisions, holding group meetings
at various convenient points within their respective territories. At these
schools of instruction this year emphasis was put upon matters of enunciation,
style of delivery and inflection to the end that agreed "style of work" would
be passed on to the lodge officers. In addition to all this, serious and strenuous
effort has been made by your Grand Lecturer and by his assistants to see that
schools of instruction for lodge officers were available throughout the year on
several occasions for each lodge in this jurisdiction. Full and complete coverage in this respect has not been attained, but we are watching the records of
schools held and are endeavoring to get instruction to the individual lodges that
have been overlooked. Fortunately, their number is but few. However, if any
Master of a lodge in this jurisdiction feels .that his officers are not receiving
adequate instruction from brethren proficient in the ritual, either from the
district inspector or from one of his approved officers' coaches, your Grand
Lecturer will appreciate a direct communication upon the subject. Corrective
measures will be immediately undertaken and the instruction supplied.
Your Grand LectUTer, even under restricted travel, has attended many of
the important Masonic group gatherings held during the past year in the
several parts of the State. After such meetings he has held informal conferences with many of the inspectors in attendance to learn from them, at first
hand, their problems and how their work was progressing. In addition to this,
he has attended a few schools of instruction held by the inspectors to observe
the instr~ction given and the quality of the officers' work. I beg to report that
these observations indicated a high performance both by the instructors and
the instructed.
Looking to next year, permit me to make a few suggestions and issue a
warning: First, we wish to notify you and all the brethren of the fraternity
that the Ritual Committee has definitely decided that Masters-elect who are
to be installed after December 1, 1944, that is, Oll_e year and two months from
now, will be required,- as a part of their qualifying examinations, to deliver
from memory the Masonic funeral service. We do not imply that we intend
to suppress or supplant the present admirable system in use by many lodges,
that of having some particularly qualified Past Master act as Master of the
lodge in conducting funerals. This plan is working out quite satisfactorily in
many places, but many occasions have arisen when such a brother was not

535

Recommendations as to the Amendment of the Ritual:
Within the several degrees of Masonry and in the candidates' lectures,
there are many ·places where particular ideas are reiterated, but where the
language in one part differs slightly from the language used in the other portion of the work. Sometimes there are niceties of distinction brought out in
these slight variations of wording. However, the similarities of the wordings
are causing confusion, interpolations and recurring errors, making the memory
work and accuracy of delivery mm:h more difficult, with only a few of the
brethren appreciating the fine points attempted to be brought out by · the variations in the language. In my opinion, the effort of maintaining perfection and
the shades of meaning is not worth the results attempted to be attained. For
these reasons the Ritual Committee, through me as its chairman, is recommending a few amendments to our ritual. In one or two places, there are corrective
reasons for suggesting the particular amendment which will be noted in my
comments.
For the purpose of consideration, I am listing each group of related amendments as a single item. Inasmuch as all the items refer to the esoteric work, I

S36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNT:\

request the reporter to omit the following from. his notes, except to record the
number of the items discussed.
·
Item 1 to item 17, both included.
The adoption of these suggested amendments will result temporarily in
some confusion. The amendments will, however, lessen the labor of lodge
officers, eliminate errors of interpolation, improve our ritual and facilitate its
rendition. These amendments have the unanimous approval of the Ritual Committee and we recommend their adoption by formal action of Grand Lodge at
this communication.
Modification of Flag Ceremony:

In my report to the Grand Lodge oJ California at its ninety-second annual
communication, the Ritual Committee, speaking through me, recommend a
change in the form of flag ceremony then in use in our lodges (1941 Proceedings of Grand Lodge, Vol. XLVII, page 4SO). That recommendation was not
adopted, but an acceptable form was included in the revised Monitor and
Officers' Manual which was adopted in that communication of the Grand. Lodge
(1941 Proceedings, pages 6S9 and 674, and 1941 Monitor and Officers' Manual,
pages S3 to SS). On December 22, 1942, the Congress of the United States of
America by joint resolution (Public Law 829-77th Congress, Chapter 806,
House Joint Resolution 3S9) established a form of pledge to the flag which
is at variance with our adopted form. The Ritual Committee recommends that
our flag ceremony be· revised to comply with the form prescribed by the congressional resolution. The required amendments of wording .in the Monitor
and Officers' Manual will be submitted in detail to Grand Lodge when this
recommendation is called for i:onsideration.
,

In conclusion, I again want to thank those who have so materially as.sisted
in · the work of this department of Masonry, especially the Assistant Grand Lecturers and the inspectors of the several Masonic districts. Ritualistic perfec~
tion and smoothness of lodge operations are not the purpose and goal of
Masonry. There are greater and finer things being done and to be done by our
beloved order, yet these matters, falling within the particular province of the
Grand Lecturer's office, are a necessary and proper part of Masonry. To me
they are the very cement and support of our society, holding us together in
the bonds of brotherly love and uniting us in a common purpose, thus, through
unity of thought and action, enabling us to accompiish the greater and finer
things for which Masonry really exists.

Especially am I grateful to you for the privilege of serving as your
Grand Lecturer with Leslie E. Wood as Grand Master and Lloyd E. Wilson
as Grand Secretary. We three have labored long and closely together throughout the years. Therefore this year has been particularly interesting and pleasant, bringing the solution of many arising problems resolved in unanimity and
culminating ten years of service in understanding and companionship that ever
will .remain a beautiful remembrance.
Again I thank you for the privilege of serving.
Respectfully submitted,
CHESTER H. WARLOW, Grand Lecturer.

Referred to the.Committee on Segregation.

S37

Resolutions

The following resolutions were then · read by the Grand
Secretary:
To the Grand Lodge of Free and <'!ccepted Ma.sons of California:

The undersigned proposed that Section 1S9 of the Uniform Code of
By-Laws of Lodges be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 1S9: A Lodge may expend, in its ·discretion, not to exceed twel}ty
per cent of its total revenue for purposes of refreshments and the promotion
of fr~ternal i~terc~urse. This fund may be cumulative since January 1,
1930, m the d1scret10n of the Lodge. During the existence of the present
war, a Lodge may contribute the unexpended balance in its recreational
fund to th~ American Red Cross, the National War Fund, or any other
· purpose designed to promote the national defense and approved by the Grand
Master.
Respectfully submitted,
CLARENCE N. RIGGINS,
Master of Yount Lodge N o. 12.

October 6, 1943.

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
July 17, 1943.

Lloyd E . Wilson, Grand Secretary,
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.,
San Francisco, Calif.

Dear· Brother Wilson: At our stated meeting July 6, a motion was
made, seconded, and carried that the Secretary of Citro! Lodge be instructed
to write the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge desiring that some kind
of a proposal be presented if possible at the annual meeting to give some
kind of recognition to members of thirty-five years with the Fraternity:
Yours fraternally,

R. w. MONROE,
Secretary.

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
WHEREAS, It is well known that the members of the Masonic Fraternity1
are loyal and patriotic citizens of the United States of America, united for
altruistic and non-political purposes, and desiring to contribute their efforts
in the promotion of truth; honor, justice and toleration for the benefit of the
public generally, and with no thought of obtaining special privileges for the
Fraternity, the members thereof, or any other individual or group of individuals ; and
·WHEREAS, The constituent Lodges of the Grand Lodge of Masons of
California, and the members thereof are vitally interested in the numerous
plans now being presented and discussed by the Congress of the United
States, public leaders of this nation and private citizens, for the formulation
of policies affecting the post-war period; and
WHEREAS, It is an obligation of such an institution as the Masonic Fraternity, and all American citizens to study such post-war plans in order t,o

538

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

participate in the establishment and maintenance of a just and lasting peace
among the nations of the world and insure the continuance of democratic,
constitutional processes in the United States;
'
Now, THEREFORE, BE h RESOLVED, That the Grand Master set aside
sufficient time on the agenda of the Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Masons o.f California, commencing October 11, 1943, for discussion of this
subject, and if the representatives assembled determine that the Grand Lodge
and the constituent Lodges should contribute to post-war planning programs,
that the newly elected Grand Master be authorized to appoint a committee
properly instructed to study the subject and assist the constituent lodges in
the formulation of a program whereby the members of the Fraternity, as
American citizens as well as Masons, may join in taking an active part in
the accomplishment of sound post-war policies, consistent with the democratic
principles of the Government of the United States.
P ACJFJC LoDGE No. 136, F. & A. M.
JESSE A. MUELLER,
Master.
WrLLIAM J. McALLISTER,
Senior Warden.
GERALD s. LEVIN,
Juiiior .Warden.

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Proposed Amendment to Section 218 of the Constitution and Ordinance
of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of California.
An amendment to Section 218 is proposed by striking therefrom the
word "ten" as it appears in the fourth line of Section 218 and inserting
in lieu thereof the word "twenty-five."
The reason for the proposed amendment is that a perspn desiring
to file an application_ for degrees in a given Lodge should be permitted
a wider scope of choice than is offered by restricting the applicant to
choose a Lodge located within a radius of ten miles of his place of
'residence. Improved methods of transportation and communication existing at the present time make a distance of twenty-five miles a very short
distance as compared with ten mile.s twenty-five or thirty years ago. An
applicant may file a petition for membership in a Lodge located any place
within a large city such as the city of Los Angeles, where applicant may
live, in a place which is more than ten miles from the Lodgeroom of
the Lodge he desires to join. Many people who formerly resided in the
City and County of San Francisco have moved to suburban areas, retaining their former place of business · in the city and maintaining close
contacts with friends and relatives in the City of San Francisco. It is
clear that many of such persons now living in suburban areas would
prefer to join a Masonic Lodge in the City of San Francisco, for instance,
than in some of the suburban areas located within a radius of twenty-five

l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

539

miles from the Masonic Temple at Oak and Van Ness Avenue, San
Francisco.
EDWARD c. LoHMEYER,
Master, California No. I.

B. Q. ENGLE,
Senior Warden, California No. I.
THORNHILL CARMANY,
Secretary, California No. I.

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Mo.st Worshipful Grand Master aiid Brethren of Grand Lodge:
The undersigned offer for the consideration of Grand Lodge and move
the adoption of the following resolution :
BE h RESOLVED, That Sections 208 and 209 of the Constitution and
·
Ordinances of Grand Lodge be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 208. An applicant for the degrees of Masonry must b~ a man ; no
woman nor eunuch; free born, being neither a slave nor the son of a bond
woman; a believer in God and a future existence; of good moral conduct;
capable of reading and writing; having no maim or defect in h'is body that
may render him incapable of learning the art; and physically able to figuratively conform t@ what the several degrees respectively require of him.
Sec. 209. When the applicant is unable to comply literally with the
physical requirements, the Master shall state the nature and extent of
his disabilities to the Lodge before ballot is taken. If elected to receive
the degrees, no degree shall be conferred upon any such candidate without
first obtaining the ·approval of the Inspector of the Masonic District in
which such Lodge is located, and the consent of the Grand Master; such
consent and approval must be in writing and state the reasons therefor.
In the exercise of their discretion upon application for such consent and
approval, the Grand Master and the Inspector may consider, in addition
to the nature and extent of the disabilities, such matters as the character
and standing of the candidate in the community where he resides, the
cause or source of the maiming, his intellectual qualifications and similar
matters touching the question of his desirability as a member of the
Order.
} . W. CROSBY,
W. M . of Holl~•wood Lodge No. 355.
]. H. HARGREAVE~,

W. M. of Henry Knox Lodge No. 662.

I. L. FOSTER,
W. M. of Glassel/ Park Lodge No: 608..

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
At 1 :15 p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until 10 :00 o'clock
Tuesday morning.

540

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

541

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

lJn ~r~nb JLobge

The Committee on Segregation to which . has been referred the
messa?'e of the Most Worshipful Grand Master begs leave to render the
followmg report:

MORNING SESSION
Tuesday, October 12, 1943.

We recommend that the following portions of the message be referred
to the committees detailed below:

Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
1. All decisions of the Grand Master, numbered 1 to 15 inclusive.
2. The order of the Grand Master that a candidate be held as an
Entered Appre~tice .Mason and that it be noted in the Lodge
records that he 1s. bemg so held because of physical insufficiency
and that the entire fee be returned to him.
3. T~e order of. the Grand Master that a candidate who had received the First and Second Degrees illegally be held as a
Fello_w~raft for one ~ear at which time he might apply for the
remammg degree, with the usual reference to committee- and
ballot by the Lodge, and that the fee for the Third D~gree
be. ret.urned to the candidate and that he be advised that an
obJection had been made to his raising.

. Following the Invocation by the V. Rev. Grand Chaplain the
Minutes of the meeting of Monday, October 11, 1943, were read by
the Grand Secretary and were approved by Grand Lodg~.
The following resolution from Southland Lodge No. 618 was
received:
·
At our Stated Meeting held last Thursday evening, Past Master '.
Brother W. W. Kaye introduced the following resolution wltich was
adopted by the Lodge:
"Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to address a communication to the Grand Lodge or to the Grand Master suggesting that, if deemed
appropriate, the annual celebration of the adoption of om- Constitution, in
the month of September, be extended to the public schools, to the end
that our youth may be taught that all of the great blessings of liberty
they now enjoy were secured to them by the noble patriots who framed
and handed down to us that greatest of Charters ever composed by man."
.quote the resolution· in its entirety for you to present as you think
best.
Fraternally yours,
ROBERT W. DUTTON,

. Secretary.

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The Grand Master then called upon M. W. Kenneth M. Robb,
Grand Master of Masons in Oregon to address Grand Lodge.. A
beautiful gavel was presented to Grand Master Wood on behalf
of the Masons of Oregon by Grand Master Robb, who then delivered an impressive address on the subject "The Heritage of
Masonry."
The report of the Grand Lecturer, previously referred to the
Committee on Segregation, was recalled from that committee and
was referred by the Grand Master to a special committee on ritual,
consisting of Herbert R. Hargrave, Inspector of the 62nd District,
Alden J. Fulkerson, Master of San Diego Lodge No. 35 and George
A. Ambrose, Senior Warden of Tehama Lodge No. 3.

'

To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. The recommendation that Lodges be required to notify their
m:~bers of all applications for the degrees and for affiliation
w1t?m ten days after their reception by the Lodge; that the
notice shall carry the full names, residence and business addresses and the age and occupations of the applicants .
2. T?e r.ecommendation that the twenty-five dollars ($25.00) contribution to the Masonic Homes be forwarded to the Grand
Secretary only after the applicant has been raised to the degree
?f Master Mason, and that in the event he dies before receivmg. that degree or has been prevented from receiving it by
action of . the Lodge, that it be returned.
3. The request of the Grand Master that twenty-five hundred
dollars . ($2,500.00) from the War Relief Fund be forwarded
to Fortitude Lodge, U. D., Chungking, China.
4. The request of the Grand Master that a contribution of twentyfive hundred dollars ($2,500.00) be made from the War Relief
Fund to the American Red Cross.
5. The request of the Grand Master that the sum of five thousand
dollars ($~,000.00) be contributed from the War Relief Fund
to the United Service Organization.
To the Committee on Finance:
1. The action of the Grand Master in authorizing pavment by the
Grand Secretary of o ne hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per
month to Sotoyome Lodge No. 123.
To the Committee on Charters:
1. The matter 9f the dispensation issued to form and open a
Lodge in the City of Chungking,' China, to be known as
Fortitude Lodge, U. D.

542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

543

2. The consolidation of Welcome Lodge No. 255 and Riverdale
Lodge No. 496.

The report of the Grand Lecturer has also been referred to this
committee and it recommends as follows:

To the Committee' on Necrology:
1. Deaths of members which have occurred during the current .
Masonic year.

That a special committee, consisting of an Inspector, a Master and a
Senior \Varden be appointed to ma~e a report to the Grand Lodge on
the changes in ritual recommended in the Grand Lecturer's report.

This Grand ] urisdiction is deeply indebted to our Most Worshipful
Grand Master for his devotion to his office of trust and the achievements
accomplished. His duties have been many and arduous, yet through it
all he has regulated his actions, and let his conduct be governed by, t!Je
principles of morality and. virtue; he has been courteous to his brethren
and faithful to the Craft. He has indeed "acquitted himself with the
highest honors here" and laid up a "crown of rejoicing" that will live
forever in the hearts of his brethren.
His inspiring- message shc;;uld be read by every Mason of this jurisdiction, not only because of the interesting Masonic information contained
therein but for the practical suggestions offered for the improvement of
the craft. No man could write such a document unless he was himself
inspired.
'I'he report of the Grand Secretary was also r~ferred to this committee. We recommend that it be segreg<1-ted and referred as follows:
To the Committee of Jurisprudence:
1. Resolution introduced by ] ohn.· ] ohnston, Past Master and
Secretary of George Washington Lodge No. 525, to amend
Sections 298 and 308 of the Ordinances.
2. The matter of legislation officially establishing the monthly
membership return system.
3. All resolutions providing for life membership.
4. All dispensations issued during the c~rrent Masonic year.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. The Grand Lecturer's recommendation relative to inspectorial
districts in Hawaii.
To the Committee on Grievances: ,
1. All trial records.
To the Committee on Finance:
1. Recommendation on audits.
2. Report on Grand Lodge Funds.
To the Committee on By-Laws:
1. All amendments to By-Laws.
The report of the Grand Treasurer was also referred to this committee. We recommend that said report be segregated and referred as
follows:
To the Committee on Policy and General· Purposes:
1. The suggestion that Grand Lodge give consideration to the
provisions of Section 655 of the Edicts and Resolutions as the
same applies to the investment of funds.
2. The need for a survey of the investment portfolio of Grand
Lodge' Funds.
To the Committee of Finance:
1. All Grand Treasurer's accounts.

This committee wishes to commend the Grand Lecturer for his assiduous attention to the extensive duties of his important office, and the
many practical suggestions he has made for increasing the efficiency of
Lodge officers.
'
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH

K. PIERSON'

PAUL H. TOWNSLEY,
WILLIAM S. THOMPSON,

Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
Louis Sutter, chairman, reported that 1,278 delegates, representing 545 Lodges, were registered for this communication.

ANNUAL ORATION
(B~,i ARTHUR PAULSEN,

Grand Orator}

Most Worshipful Grand Mast.er, Distingi1ished Past Grand Masters, My
Fellow Grand Lodge Officers and B~ethren:
Since . men first raised their eyes to behold the vision of a nobler
life beyond the sordid things of earth the gifted tongues of able men
have sounded the praises of this great institution, praises which no feeble
words of mine can embellish or enrich. I come to you today with no
panegyric upon Masonry, but as a blunt and lowly member of the craft,
impelled by the tragic current of events to use plain words and deal with
simple truths. I am not here to seek the plaudits of the crowd but to
bring to you the message of a troubled heart, hoping that some word or
thought.. of.mine might help, in some small way, dispel the clouds that
now obscure the light.
For more than thirty years I have labored in the quarries of Masonry
as did my father before me and I yield to no man in devotion to this
cause. And if I l~ved it less, I might now proceed to paint a glowing
picture of a brilliant past and then sit down content. Because the fervor
of my love has not abated with the lapse of time, and because I still
believe that the divine attribute of Truth is the foundation of every
virtue and that sincerity and plain dealing should distinguish us, I cannot
hold my tongue while all about a troubled world is crying for relief.
For years I have watched our workmen ply their trade and for
years I have pondered the meaning of it all. I have seen the march of
those who passed and in the fullness of their hearts embraced the wisdom
of our art; of those who came to see, and having seen passed on. I have
seen the faithful of the craft work on unsung, without the urge for rank
or praise. I have seen others by a patient and unselfish toil climb to
the heights of fame and then, when its delusive light .no longer cast its
luster on their names, still work on, giving to Masonry the last full

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

measure of devotion. I see them now, at home and here, sincere and
noble men, performing their allotted tasks, pondering, even as I have
done, the aim and object of it all.
/
. But the picture is not yet complete. I haye also seen divergent
schools of thought arise concerning the purpose of our work; one that
sometimes made a fetish of ritualism, forgetting the message that it
brought; the other so impressed by the lessons we impart that it some•
times sought to belittle the means employed to impart it.

And into such a world Masonry was born. Starting from the Middle
East, where man first grasped the concept of a God of Love, these craftsmen spread across the earth. Their paths were marked by stately temples
whose beauty and design have set a pattern rarely equaled since. Free
men were they, who knew that character and self-control were all that
kept them free. But gradually the plan was changed. The beauty then
took on symbolic mold and men of rank and wisdom came to lend their
talent and to build in newer forms. The trowel passed to other hands
that hoped to build a mighty temple of the soul where men, at last,
might be secure and free.

544

I have seen times when our lodges were full to overflowing; but
more often, night after night, mere handfuls of our total strength h.ave
met to work while in the neighboring block service clubs were flourishing with " ev~ry member in his place.
·
I have seen earnest, able and dynamic men lost to the craft because
be lacked a plan to utilize their skills without delay. I have seen some
stand in line for years waiting for their chance to serve and then, disheartened, turn away to use their talents in other fields; while others
have worked their way to win distinction in the Master's Chair, only
to find when that was done, that they could spend their time in small
assignments or could sit quietly and listen while other men conferred
degrees.
·
Brethren, what is wrong? Is there some defect in the design upon
the trestle-board? Or have we, perhaps, misread the plan?
What can our mission be? What means may we employ to make
our power felt? Is ritual the end? Or do all men, and we, need something more?
Let us turn back the swiftly moving pages of the past and see if we
can find some answer to these questions that now cause us such concern.
From tropic isles to frozen seas, from east and west, from all the
corners of the earth, we see the slow and painful struggle of ancestral
man. With head bowed down, his great concern is food, and shelter,
protection from wild beasts and wilder men, and freedom from the fears
of a mysterious universe he can not understand. He knows one law,
and only one: the law that might makes right. He hoards. his food, only
to have it taken by some neighbor with a longer spear. In time, he sees
a ray of hope, and, out of his. longing for a better life there slowly comes
the knowledge that a code of higher laws exists which teaches Love
and Truth and Justice for mankind. With greater hope he struggles on
and builds and hoards again, and with a stronger zest for life he plans
his future course in the belief that lip-service to these higher laws has
brought security at last; only to find that some neighboring group still
rules by sword and fire, and in the end his plans for peace and happiness
are cast aside and all his goods and liberty are lost.
So on and on through centuries we see this battle ebb and flow
between the peaceful toiler and the· tyrant with a lust for power, between
the law of jungle and the law of God.
From time to time new groups are formed which seek to solve the
troubles of this tragic world. Philosophies and creeds are born, each
in its turn offering to man its cure. Some are good, and some are bad.
Some strive with open minds to search for Truth; while others, equally
sincere, are sure that they, and they alone, have found the magic formula
of liberty and peace. Some carry on with noble and unselfish zeal;
while others, in pursuit of power, themselves succumb to the base traits
their founders sought to crush.

545

It was no accident that Speculative Masonry blossomed forth in
the land of Magna Charta and the Bill of Rights. For let us not forget
that Masonry and Freedom must go hand in hand. Where Freedom
fails, no Masonry exists;. and those who love its truth must ever fight
and work in Freedom's cause. It was the recognition of these facts
that caused the members of our craft one hundred tifty-six years ago to
help bring forth a new charter of liberty and human rights, a new landmark for the guidance of all men, the Constitution of the United States .•

And what happened since those days The ancient feuds went madly
on. The charter we had helped to build had recognized a thing that
free men could not tolerate. We fought, and Freedom won. And then
for years the right of men to go their way was paramount. But is it
now?
Compare our times with those just thirty years ago. Then we were
free. But when the ugly head of tyranny again was raised across the
sea, we sallied forth to do our part-a righteous war, I still believeproclaiming to the defenders of our faith that we were fighting tb make
the world safe for democracy. We bad a foe who taxed our courage
and our skill. Rich and fertile lands were plundered and defiled. The
arts of peace were crippled or destroyed. Huge debts piled up: \Ve ·
struggled on. In time we won that war. And then we lost the peace
because men were not yet prepared to adopt the principles we teach.
And in the wake of that great war, depression came to test our claim
that we were free. The wheels of industr·y were stilled. Trade languished
while men stood in line to beg for food. The terror and the fear of
those tragic days made us cry out for help from any source, at any
price, and for a time the cherished right to think arid write and speak
was almost lost.
Because men had rejected the stones that should have become the
head of the corner, the improvised temple of peace that was to have
brought liberty artd happiness to the oppressed of the world crumbled
and decayed. Because we ·and other peoples of the earth were determined
to believe that by mere repetition of the higher laws we could somehow
circumvent the Supreme Grand Master's plan; escape the consequences
of our acts and thus avoid the work that men must do if they expect
to climb, we helped prepare the way for greater crimes than men before
had ever seen.
The ancient doctrine of divine right of kings and rule by warrior
clans gave way to vicious creeds that now proclaimed the divine right
of blood and race, and ruthlessly set forth to murder or enslave all
those who, by the standards of those perverted minds, were of some
lesser breed. Fire and sword were used to torture and destroy the
helpless victims of that mad campaign. Masonry was first to go, as
was everything that dared to stand for what was right. Our brethren

547

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

were thrown into concentration camps or slain, and such an orgy of
spite and hate and murder was indulged in that even beasts of prey
were put to shame.
And now in almost every corner of this troubled earth our brethren
and other fearless and unselfish men who will not yield their right to
live as free men should, are giving up their lives that those they love,
and we, and other members of our craft, may be secure. Yes, be secure.
Secure how long? Until some other war reduces men to slavery and
despair?
In less than thirty years we have witnessed the greatest and most
savage wars that men have ever known. The first world war .derived
its name because it had eclipsed in power the most titanic struggles of
the past. The suffering, the loss of life, the staggering debts, the disaster
in its wake left men aghast. The aftermath of troubles that it brought
had not been solved when this new war arrived to dwarf the first in
pain and grief and cost of every kind.
And when this war is won, what then? Are we again to lose the
·peace? Are we to jeopardize the things for which we sacrificed and
fought by a selfish and short-sighted course that in the end will ·bring
destruction to the very things it was intended to preserve? Can we
then pursue our usual course in a world that will lie prostrate at our
feet? Where men are crazed by hatred and a longing for revenge?
Where someone must restore the values it has lost? Will ordinary
means suffice? Whose business will it be to teach disillusioned men
that Justice must prevail : that Truth is mightier than the sword, aµd
that we still believe that brotherly love can prevail and rule the destinies
of men?
What, then, must Masons do? Our first duty is to win this war
and to that end we must devote our time, our wealth and every energy
that we can muster to support this cause. For the time being, we must
give to our high command the power to fulfill the trying tasks we have
imposed. Let us be patient and resigned. The small privations here
at home are trivial when compared to hardships that must be born by
those who represent us at the front. Yes, we must carry on. We started
as free men and as free men we must continue to the bitter end. We
can not and we will not fail.
When the perverted and trea<;herous leaders of the Axis gangs have
been punished for their crimes, we must play our part by helping to
devise some just plan to see that they, or men like them, shall not return
again to plague the world. But can we find a way to prevent some
other race or power from repeating the attempt to rule the earth? Will
Masons in high places, who were taught the lessons of Brotherly Love
and Justice that we learned, stand by and lend their aid in execution
of the plan?
Whatever way we look, . new problems will arise to tax our ingenuity
and faith. Those whom we have thwarted will try to rise again. Throughout the world self-conscious, backward races will be on the march with
claims that must be reconciled.
·
And what are we to do about affairs at home? Are we prepared
when peace has come to make an effort to regain the powers we have
lent to prosecute the war? Or will depression stalk across the earth
again? And if it does, will free men, living in a land which has the
means to meet omr needs, produce the things we want, and still stay
free? Or shall we, the sovereigns here, abdicate again so we may eat?

Is there some easy way? ' Some short cut to our goal? We have
seen science lift the burdens from men's backs and give them happiness
and time to play. And we have often found that men with too mu~h
leisure time cannot stand the stress of modern life; that the things that
science brings to our relief are seized themselves to thrust us back into
the abyss from which we climbed.

546

Can not the great religions of the world unite mankind i' Not while
their partisans follow a thousand separate and divergent paths. Too
many still pursue some sacred cow.
Does some one say, "Then let us have a law to curb the gangsters
of this earth; that is our favorite cure"? Yes, let us have a law to do
that very thing but let us always know that laws do not enforce themselves. Our Constitution has guaranteed. the rights of men and stood
the test of time, but it has worked because the freedom-loving people
of this land determined that they could not let it fail. When we have
law, good or bad, the sanction of that law is force: good when the men
who gave it life, are good; bad when the men who gave it life, are bad.
No plan that rests on . force can long succeed unless the character
of men is raised to that high plain where the need for such a law has
almost ceased. We justify the use of force by us because we know, or
think we know, that we are just, but it has a rightful place only when
used to bring control until the day when men themselves are qualified
to carry on without injury to their fellow men; when Truth and Justice
are the guiding lights by which . the:y work.
What can we do? For years the grand design has been spread
upon our trestle-board where all who wished to look might see. The
broad outlines laid down may be approved by any honest man and they
present. the only plan that ever can succeed. Yet it is a plan that men
have shunned for ages because they thought it tiresome and slow. It is
no easy scheme for men who are afraid to work or those who wish to
build and hide behind a front. Its materials are common men. If they
are rough, it seeks to fit them to The Builder's use, and if the work is
carried forward to the end the time
come when free men may take
their place in a spacious and resplendent temple of enduring peace.

will

How are we to carry out this plan? The same as we have always
done? Brethren, when I began I said that I would use plain words,
and deal with simple truths. I would be remiss if I took your time to
paint word pictures of our glorious past when the picture of the future
is so stark and grim. What we need now is not more words, but facts;
yes facts that we can face and analyze so we can chart our course. The
picture of the years ahead does not reveal a rosy path that we can follow
blindly without heed to the lessons we have learned, or should have
learned, from the history of the past. The things that are to come are
written in an open book. The theme is just the same and the i~sues
have not . changed.
Brethren, more than a quarter of a century ago we reached the
end of a great era and embarked upon a new, but we did not recognize
the fact. Since the time the Pilgrims first landed on our shores we have
regarded this great land as a haven where men oppressed abroad might
come and be secure. And we have gone on in that belief, holding ourselves aloof from the problems of the outside world, maintaining that
we had no part to play in the wicked schemes of men in other lands
-lands that had long since passed the simple problems of this new
world. We found great, virgin forests, unlimited supplies of every kind,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and broad, fertile plains where men could take . the things they need.
We had no life line to maintain, no shortages to force us out into the
violent currents and tempestuous seas where other men were struggling
for their very lives.

more blocs appear to claim some special privilege, often forgetting in
their zeal that other men have rights.

548

And then, to our dismay, the myth of isolation exploded in our
face. Through the advance of science, men whose hearts were filled
with envy for our riches and our power, became our neighbors overnight and the problems that for centuries had tortured other men became
our problems too.
War came, and more than two million of our men sailed across the
sea to battle for a cause. Under the stimulus of that great conflict we
talked of Justice and proclaimed to all the world that men were free.
We planned a better world, with peace for all. The German fleet and
army were destroyed-or so we thought-and by our mandate they
could never rise _again. And we w ent home, we and our allies, tired
and disillusioned, to forget. But we forgot too much ; forgot that force
alone has never in · the long history of th,e human race lifted men above
the savage beasts, or changed the basic pattern of their being; forgot
that he who makes a plan must also make it work.
·
. Some years elapsed, and because we had neglected to prepare the
soil in which the cause of freedom thrives, new tyrants of a more malignant growth rose up and told us in no uncertain terms that everything
we cherished was outworn. Their purposes were not concealed. Their
leaders carefully announced the plan. But we had troubles of our own
and so we let them go to _c arry out their plot. The army that was
not to be, began to grow and in the course of time, small though it was,
it crossed into the forbidden valley of the Rhine. Did our old allies,
or we, who talked so much, take action then? One good division could
have turned them back. We still believed in miracles and shibboleths
and lost our chance by easy means thus -to avert the war that rrow is
shaking the whole earth.
Have we learned anything from this? We talk of Justice and make
plans, but when our men are back, tired and disillusioned as before, who
will provide the aircraft, garrisons and fleets for years to come and
promise never to forget? When taxes weigh us down from debts so
big we cannot even comprehend their size, shall we then remember the
things that now seem clear?
And let us not forget that freedom is not always lost to forces from
without. Wars pave the way for . greater evils from within.
The logi~ of events has justified our help to Russia, for by doing
so w e help ourselves and millions who are now oppressed. But do we
know what she will do when she is free to exercise her will ?
For six long years China has waged a battle for its life and yet
today a great communist army of Chinese stands by in idleness. What
is it waiting for? What vision has it seen?
When the present restraints have been removed from Europe and
new forces are unleashed, can any man be sure that communism will
not take command? And let no man delude himself into the belief that
this tyrant can be r econciled with the democratic principles that· we
hold dear.
What of conditions then at home? The same forces that have contended for ten thousand years are still contending here. Blocs and

549

Whatever progress we have made in the long years since life commenced upon this earth, has come from the slow development of character in man. Each starts from scratch, and each in turn must learn his
lessons in the treadmill that is life. This generation cannot do the work
of those who are to come. No magic formula can lift this burden from
their backs or save them from the course they must pursue. But if
enough are taught and learn their lessons well, then, and then only, will
mankind be free.
And if America has reached the time when it must play a more
important role, is it not possible, at least, that Masonry has reached a
turning point? Eternal principles will never change. The things we
treasure most will still endure. R elief will always be a work of love
with us, if we have caught the spirit of it all. And as the teacher must
provide a means to make the pupil see the beauty of the lesson he
imparts, so must perfection in our ritual be our constant care and a
great and lasting source of pride for every member of the craft.
But will our missions be fulfilled if we stop there? It has been
said "Talent is built in solitude ; character in the stream of life." Men
must be taught; and men must learn to live. Mere repetition has never
been enough. The noble concepts of Truth and Love and Justice may
take form, but in the haze that comes with time, they fade away, unless
by practice they are woven into the very fabric of our souls.
Within the recent history of our times, wise and discerning leaders
here have seen the light, and we have thus arrayed the ranks of Masonry
behind our public schools; and we have rallied to support that master
plan, once fashioned partly by Masonic hands, that now proclaims the
right to freedom in this land.
But I arri not convinced that we have yet exhausted all the means
that Masonry or Masons could employ to give our straying brothers
work or make our power felt. I am not unmindful of the fact that
Masonry in other lands has sometimes gone astray and suffered loss.
But in view of all the things that I have seen in this chaotic world, I
cannot now believe· that we have sketched in all the minor details of
the plan, or have built the character in men that we must have to reach
the last and highest goal: the Fatherhood of God, and the Brotherhood
of Man.
And never will this goal be reache~ while men in every land must
live in terror of the god of war and sacrifice their right to love, and
think, and grow, and search for Truth.
I am not here to urge some innovation in our work. I only hope
that we may catch the spirit of it all. Whatever landmarks might appear
to bar our way, we never can be lacking in the power to save ourselves
or carry through until we reach the height toward which we climb.
I am not here to recommend procedures ot techniques; for well I know
if we but have the will, the mea ns will soon be found.
Whatever rule or regulations may appear to hold us down, I know
there is a higher law that cannot be ignored: growth is the law of life,
and every living thing must grow or waste away and die.
And if we hesitate, then let us see the truth. Let us first ask what
every man must ask: "What_ is our allegiance to this cause? Are we
free men prepared to do the things that must be done if we stay free?

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In Justice something real that makes us want to render unto every man
his just due, without distinction? Do we believe in brotherly love that
regards the whole human species as one family? Do we want Truth.
itself, when it suddenly confronts us with some fact we do not dare to
face? And if we answer "No," let us forget the things that we profess
and join the countless miJ!ions who believe that men may have their
way no matter where it leads. And if we answer "Yes,'' let us as men
who have the faith and courage to support the right, stand up and tell
the world we will defend the cause we represent.

In the report made to you at the last communication of Grand Lodge
I mentioned that Past Grand Master Stafford and Mrs. Stafford were
interned near Bagino, and that Past lJrand Master Youngberg and Mrs.
Youngberg were confined in the camp at Santo Tomas University. We
have had no further information concerning them.

550

Brethren, we have work to do. Let us build men who will be adequate
to the performance of these great and glorious undertakings.
Our fathers' God! from out whose hand
The centuries fall like grains of sand,
We meet today, united, free,
And loyal to our land and Thee,
To thank Thee for the era done,
And trust Thee for the opening one.

.o make Thou us, through centuries long,
In peace secure, in justice strong;
Around our fight of freedom draw
The safeguards of thy righteous law:
And, cast in some diviner mould
Let the new cycle shame the old.

On motion of Past Grand Master Samuel E. Burke, the Grand
Orator was requested to deliver a copy of his address to the
Grand Secretary for printing and distribution to the Lodges.

REPORT ON PHILIPPINE ISLANDS LODGES
Most W orshipf1tl Grand Master a11d Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
Suffering and tragedy continue to be the lot of mankind; destru~tion
of life and property continue with unabated fury; the Four Horsemen
of the Apocalypse ride with an abandon unequalled in recorded history;
and the sick, the wounded, and the helpless call upon a loving God for
succor.
In the presence of such conditions it is fitting and proper that we
of the Grand Lodge of California should pause in our deliberations to
consider our brethren in the Philippine Islands who have been so unfortunate as to fall under the heel Df a cruel and inhuman conqueror.

551

We now learn that John R. McFie, Jr., Grand Master 1941 and
Mrs. McFie are interned at Santo Tomas. Brother McFie was' bor"n
at Las Cruces, New Mexico, April 25, 1889. Married Dorothy Podmore
1928, in Kobe, Japan.
'
Educated in the public schools of Las Cruces, graduated Ann' Arbor
Michigan, High School, 1905 ; Santa Fe, New Mexico, High School 1908'.
University of New Mexico, 1909; received the degree LL.B. at th~ Uni~
versity of Michigan in 1914. Admitted to the Bar Association of the
State of Michigan, 1914 and State of New Mexico, 1915; admitted to
the bar of the Philippines, May 1, 1922; President of American Bar
Association of the Philippines 1934.
Brother McFie became a Lieutenant Commander, U. S. N. R., 1938;
was called to service in November, 1941. He served through the siege
of Cavite and after the fall of ' that naval base was, with other. naval
reservists, returned by the Government of the United States to civilian
status. As a civilian he was interned. Later the Japanese, contending
that these reservists were spies, removed several from the concentration
camp, submitted them to severe cruelties, trying to force a confession of
their guilt. Whether Brother McFie was one of those submitted to
torture we do not know.
Shortly before the outbreak of hostilities, Mrs. McFie sailed from
the United States for the Islands. The ship upon which she was traveling took a circuitous route and was 45 days in' reaching Manila. At one
port of call Mrs. McFie found it necessary to cable to the United States
for funds. Brother McFie's youngest son is now residing with his
paternal grandmother in Honolulu:
One of the most interesting incidents in the history of the Grand
of the Philippines concerns Manuel Louis Quezon, Grand Master,
m 1918-19. Quezon was born in 1878 at Baler, on the Island of Luzon.
He took his law training at Santo Tomas University in Manila. In his
early twenties he was a major on the staff of Emilio Aguinaldo, insurrectionist leader against ·the United States, but he made his peace with
the territorial authorities and became a provincial prosecutor in 1903.
From 1907 to 1909 he was a member of the Philippine Assembly, and
from 1909 to 1916 resident commissioner to the United States Congress.
He returned to Manila in 1916 and was elected president of the Senate,
a strategic political post which he held until his election as president
of the new commonwealth on September 17, 1935.
~odge

No direct commtinieation can be had with the Islands, but from
various sources we have obtained the information that many of our
brethren ate confined to the internment camp at Santo Tomas University
in the city of Manila. Reports received indicate that the internees of this
camp fare .better than those of any other administered by the Japanese.

In the campaign for the presidency of the Philippines; Quezon's
two· opponents for that office were General Emilio Aguinaldo, his former
commander, and Bishop .Aglipay, formerly a prelate in the Roman
Catholic Church, and now head of the Independent Catholic Church of
the Philippine Islands. Both General Aguinaldo and Bishop Aglipay are
members of the Masonic Fraternity.

.Since the establishment of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine ISlan!is
on December 19, 1912, twenty-eight men have served as Grand Masters.
Seven died prior to the invasion,; one. died this year; one is now residing
in the United States; three ar.e Interned at Santo Tomas University; and
one is .interned in a c~mp .near Bagino; ·leaving fifteen unaccounted. for.·

·In 1928 Quezon withdre:w from air his Masonic affiliations and
entered the Roman Catholic Church. · John Gunther in . his we'll-known
book "Inside Asia" in discu·s sing this incident ·:·writes . as . follo~s:
"Quezon's religious history is curious . . He was, .o.f course; born .a Rqm~n

0

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Catholic, but he was not confirmed until he was fourteen, although the
usual age is three or four. Then he joined the revolution and became
a Free Mason, when Masonry, forbidden by the Spanish r~gime, was
a symbol of the independence movement. He rose to be a thirty-second
degree Mason, but was reconverted to Catholicism in 1928 after two
decades of apostasy. His wife strongly wanted him to re-enter the.
church for the sake of the children. He was ill with tuberculosis; he
took Communion when he thought he might be on his death bed, b~t
only-a typical enough Quezon touch-after saying he would refuse to
believe in miracles. He wants to be a Catholic, like everything else, on
his own terms."
Manuel Quezon escaped from the Islands aboard a P-T boat commanded · by !1ieutenant Anthony B. Akers, of Beverly Hills, California,
and is now living in Washington, D. C., where he heads the Philippine
Government-in-Exile.
Frederick' H. Stevens was Grand Master in 1923-24. We know
little of his life except that he was in the United States in 1941, at
which time he visited his mother in Chicago, Illinois. He returned to
Manila in September of that y'ear.
Of his Masonic career we know that he was a 33rd degree Mason;
was Deputy in the Philippines of the Supreme Council, Southern Jurisdiction of the Scottish Rite· Bodies. In the · York Rite Bodies he was
Past High Priest, Luzon Chapter No. 1, Royal Arch Masons; Past
Illustrious Master, Oriental Council No. 1, Royal and Select Masters;
Past Commander, Far East Commandery No. 1, Knights Templar.
Information obtained from a sister of a former Secretary of the
Scottish Rite Bodies in Manila declares that Brother Stevens is a prisoner
at Santo Tomas Camp. This information has been confirmed by our
State Department.
Milton Earle Springer served as Grand Master for the years 1919-20.
Brother Springer was born August 27, 1875, at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania;
died April 5, 1943, at Mechanicsburg, Penrisylvania. Wh~n Brother
Springer went to the Islands we do not know. We are adVlsed by the
Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite Bodies i!1 \Yashingtqn, D .. C., ~hat
he received the Scottish Rite degrees at Manila 1h 1911, at which time
his occupatiol). was given as merchant. He was elected a Knight Co~­
mander of the Court of Honor on October 22, 1913, elected to receive
the 33rd degree . on October 20, 1915, and received the latter on May 26,
1917. The recommendations for these honors speak most complementary
as to his executive ability, his industry, and his devotion to Masonry.
In the York Rite Bodies he was Past High Priest, Luzon Chapter
No. 1, Royal Arch Masons; Past Illustrious Master, Oriental Council
No. 1, Royal and Select Masters; Past Commander, Far East Commandery No. 1, Knights Templar.
Such honors received in other bodies and the fact that he was elevated to the highest office in the gift of his brethren of the Grand Lodge
of the Philippine Islands clearly indicate that his zeal and industry were
applied with equal enthusil!-sm to Blue Lodge Masonry. From the dates
given above it is evident he was in the Islands at least 10 years.
The Japanese army entered the City of Manila January 2'. 1942, and
since that date every effort has been made to learn something of the
whereabouts of William F . Gallin, but without success. Brother Ga11in
was appointed Representative of the Grand Lodge of California near

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

553

the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands· by Grand Master Ogden
in 1940.
Born in Rochester, New York, July 17 1878 he received his education in that city. As a young man he ca~e tC: California and entered
th~ banking business. About 1901 he went to the Philippine Islands as
an employee of the Treasury Department. He received the degrees of
Masonry in St. John's Lodge No. 9, in Manila, and later served the
Lo.dge as Master. He was very active in the other bodies; was High
Priest of Luzon Chapter No. 1, Royal Arch Masons in 1915· Illustrious
Master, Oriental Council No. 1, Royal and Select Masters,' 1923; Past
Com.mander and R~corder,. Far East Commandery, Knights Templar;
Pres1~ent of the Nile Shriners Association of the Philippine Islands,
organized January 5, 1916; and it was through his efforts that Nile
Temple of the ~ystic Shrine,. of Seattle, Washington, made its pilgrimage
to the Islands in July, 1919. We have reasons to believe that he was
a member of and held offices in other Masonic organizations in the
Islands, but we are unable to substantiate these beliefs at the moment.
. Br?ther Gallin r~turned to California in 1923 and immediately became
active in the formation of Truth Lodge No. 628 of Los Angeles. He
presented a demit from St. John's Lodge No. 9, of Manila, bearing date
?f October 8,. 1924. . He. was elected Secretary of Truth Lodge and served
in th.at capacity until his withdrawal on July 9, 1925, for the purpose of
forming Southland Lodge No. 618, of Ho1lywood and served as its first
Master. Eight of the Charter Members of Southland Lodge were formerly members of Lodges in the Philippine Islands. He returned to
the Islands in 1931, and immediately renewed his Masonic activities·
establishing dual membership in Southland Lodge of Ho1lywood antl
St. John's Lodge of Manila. At the time of the capitulation of Manila
Brother Gallin was associated with his brother-in-law in the operation
of the Arenas de! Oro mine, producing gold on the Island of Mindanoa.
.
An interesting .and enjoyable meeting was held in Southland Lodge
in 1930, when David Fletcher, Master, a former resident of Manila and
a f~rmer member of a Manila Lodge, entertained Seldon W. O'Brien,
serVln~ .t~at year as Grand Master of the Philippine Grand Jurisdiction.
The v1~1ting Grand Master expressed his delight at meeting so many·
men with whom he had worked in Masonry in the Islands.
Great anxiety has been felt by many of our brethren for the safety
?f Ewald Edward Selph, Master of Southern California Lodge No. 278,
in 1919. Brother Selph has been in the Islands for many years, being
a member of one of the largest legal firms in the Far East. We have
been advised that Brother and Mrs. Selph are internees at Santo Tomas
University where Brother Selph is President of the Public Relation Committee of the camp. They are enjoying good health and are reported
to have been selected for exchange. If this report be true then they
may be expected to reach the United States sometime in December as
the Swedish liner Gripsholm sailed from New York on Septembe; 2
bound for Mormugao, chief port of the Portuguese colony of Goa 0 ~
the west co.a st of India, where she will meet the Japanese ship · Teia
Maru and ther~ effect an exchange of nationals.
For many years Brother William H. Engle, a member of Pentalpha
Lodge No. 202, of Los Angeles, has been a guest of the Home at Decato.
In 1933 Brother Engle, using glass and an emery wheel, made a set
of gavels from a log found on the grounds of the Home, which he
presented. to Brother James B. Gist, member · of the same Lodge, who
was serving as Grand Master that year. Brother John Whicher, then

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Secr~tary, appreciating the beauty of the gavels, asked Brother
Engle to make another set to be presented by him to the Grand Lodge
of the Philippine Isfands, as Brother Whicher was then planning _a trip
to the Far East. As a result of this request Brother Engle made several
additional sets, the best of which Brother Whicher took to Manila, and
the gavels were formally presented to the Philippine Grand Lodge June
11, 1934, by Past Grand Master George R. Harvey of M~nila. Brother
Engle has presented me a duplicate set of these gavels, with the request
that when the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands is reestablished,
should it be found that the original set has been lost or destroyed, that
this set replace the original. He further requests that should the original
set be found then the set now in my possession be presented to Pentalpha Lodge. I shall be most happy "to follow his directions.
Our Most Worshipful Grand Master, Leslie E. Wood, has issued_ a
dispensation to form and open a Lodge in Chungking, Chi~~· . to be
known as Fortitude Lodge U . D. At the outbreak of host1hbes the
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands had six lodges under its jurisdiction
in China and as the brethren who compose the new lodge had in the
fall of 1941 petitioned the Grand Lodge of the Islands for a dispensation
it is the plan of our Grand Master that the Lodge shall remain und~r a
California dispensation until such time as its future may be determmed
by the Philippine Grand Lodge. I shall not go into the matter more
fully as the. Grand Master fully covered the subject in his report.
The Wa; Relief Committee, together with the various Boards of
.Relief, continue to render their efficient service to our brethren apd
members of their families, who·· t1:1rough the vicissitudes of war need our
aid. Our thanks go to them for their splendid work.
In conformity with the policy adopted by this Grand Lodge at its
last comunication the Grand Secretary continues to receive dues from
members of Philippine Lodges, issuing certificates showing such receipt
and holding such funds in trust for the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands. At the present time t~ Gi:and Lodge of California has and
holds in trust the sum of $7,682.35 paid by 473 members of 41 seperate
Lodges. There are 63 cases pending; 219 members have paid dues for
more than one year. .
·
When we gathered in this Temple just a year ago our Oriental
enemy was still extending his conquests; still ex_ulting in his belief that
h~ was of a superior race; still confident that his deifi.ed e~peror, ben~ath
the benignant smile of the Sun Goddess, was leadmg him to glorious
victory. · But what a change! Today he finds his sea powe~ materiall.Y
reduced · his a.ir force opposed by better men and better eqmp_m ent; his
armies ~bandoning their suiCidal stands, retreating before the determined
movements of the soldiers of democracy. How Jong he will continue the
struggle no man can say. But with_ our undying faith in the Great
Architect of the Universe; our detednio.ation to use to the utmost the
power and force which a beneficent Cfod has placed at our disposal we
know that his ,destruction is, inevitable. Not for a moment are we unrrl.indful of the condition of_ our brethren in the Islands, nor in our praye~s
do we forget to petition Almighty Gqd to hurry the day of their
deliverance.
· Respectftillj submitted,
.
Rov C. BRYAN,
Rcpre.se11.tative of the Grand Lo_dg e._ of the Philippine. Islands near 'the Grand
Lodg e "pf Cplifprnia.
~· --

M. W. George Harvey, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands .(1915), was introduced by the
Grand Mast.er and gave a graphic account of events since De~ember 7~~' 1?41, in relation to individual persons and groups
m the Ph11tppme Islands. .

554

' Re.port' ad6p'ted~

555

REPORT OF MASONIC WAR RELIEF FUND
COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

I have t?e· pleasur~ to report the results of activities of your War
F.und Committee. It 1s a good report which reflects credit upon the
discernment of Grand Master Smith who appointed the committee and
upon Grand Master Wood, who continued it, as well as upon yo~ and
the brethren. of t~; Lo?s:es for your support of this great Masonic charity.
Y ~ur. committee ts. pnv1l~ged in the opportunity to be the medium for
bringmg these mamfestahons of Masonic responsibilities into focus upon
our problems of the war.
When the committee was appointed hy Grand Master Smith a few
~onths af~er Pearl Ha~bor, America was in the darkest hour 'of her
history. With a substantial number of our capital ships on the bottom of
~ear~ Harbor, a large yart of our Navy i'n the Atlantic guarding the
hfe-lme bet"."'een America . and Britain, and with the full fury of the
Japanese poised for the . kill, we were indeed in peril. Everything that
Masonry s.tands for was m danger of destruction at that time. Even this
state was m danger of actual invasion.
. In making the report of the committee at our last communication, I
pomted out that the Grand Architect of the Universe had been good to
us here. During the first ten months of war, He and He alone restrained
the hands of our enemi~s while
were salvaging and rebuilding our
su?ken. fleet and otherwise preparing for a war of survival. Thanks to
Hts gmdance and to the responses of a nation united in adversity we
have this past year been able to help ourselves. We have whittled ~way
at the outer defenses of our enemies in the Atlantic, Mediterranean and
Pacific areas until now it is we who are poised for swift powerful attack
on ~he very home lands of our enemies. No longer are we on the defens1':'e; everywh~re we are ~m the offensive; and God willing, we shall
remam there until our enemies are driven under the ground or into the
sea and with the~ their dream of world domination and oppression. Then,
and only then, will the world become a place safe for the free and unrestricted practices of the principles of free Masonry. Then and only
then, can the word "peace" come to mean more than the word ''armistice."
The progress that we have made in the war duri~g the !~st year
might, to the unthinking, indicate that necessity for the War Relief Fund
has ended. On the other hand, to · those who are realistic it indicates
that we m1;1st still look .forward to the maximum demands upon such a
fun.d. Un~1l recently we ~ave been merely holding the line, fighting de~
laymg act10ns, and octas1onally lopping off one of the tentacles of the
octopus. Such military and naval action, particularly when successful·
involves a great number of casualties. But when we meet the enemy he.ad
on-when we chase him into his lair and still pursue him-the casualties
~re often appalling in their number, even though the · military oper:atio~
1s successful..
··

v:e

556

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

And so, my brothers, while we may confidently expect . successive
victories from this day on, it will be at a price-a terrible price.
I believe it is being only realistic to say that from this time on, our
casualties each month will probably be greater than for the entire first
eighteen months of the war. This jurisdiction alone has 8,866 of our
brethren in the armed forces. God alone knows how many· of them will
be called on to make the supreme sacrifice, and what the needs of their
families will be.
Yes, we will need our War Relief Fund from this time on, in increasing proportions.
It was the aim of Grand Master Smith to establish a fund equal in
dollars to the number of our brethren as of July 31, 1941. That number
was 125,843. When the committee was continued in existence by Grand
Master Wood, he set a similar goal, based upon the maximum m~mber­
ship in his year. That number was 126,313. That number today ts 129,509. I have the honor to report that the goal has been exceeded and your
committee has collected the sum of $131,220. This represents contributions
from approximately half of our membership. It was our hope that every
Mason in the jurisdiction might contribute and earn a feeling of duty well
performed in this great charity.
However, we have 8,866 members in service, who should not be called
upon; we have others who are scattered throughout the world and who
may not have full knowledge of our program; and there are others who
because of adversity are unable to contribute.
The full quota has been reached by 354 of our Lodges. It would be
fine if the others would do the same thing. It would give them one more
source of satisfaction-one more of those joys which will forever strengthen
and comfort those who have done their best in this supreme war effort
of the American nation to make Peace not only the ambition but also
the destiny of the people of the world.

Chairman
For the Committee.

EARL WARREN,

WAR RELIEF FUND REPORT
1941
Membership

California No. 1 .................................. ......................
Western Star No. 2 ..................................................
Tehama No .. 3 ..........................................................
Benicia No. 5 ··············-············-································
Tuolumne No. 8 •.......................................................
Corinthan No. 9 ................ .-.......................................
San Jose No. 10 ........................................................
Yount No. 12 ..............................................................
Nevada No. 13 ..........................................................
Temple No. 14 ..........................................................
Eureka No. 16 ............................................................
La Parfaite Union No. 17 ···'····································
Mountain Shade No. 18 .........!... ...........................~San Joaquin No. 19 ······································.-···········

572
106
469
134
202
261
425
268
126
103
185
130
40
549

Total
Contributions

Cert.
No.

$ 1,040.00

30
66
42

221.00
547.22
40.30
310.50
179.00
590.50
96.00
162.00
108.50
188.00
294.50
25.50
381.00

221
59
105
342
227
101

1941
Membership

Washington No. 20 ..................................................
Hawaiian No. 21 ........................................................
Occidental No. 22 ......................................................
Madison No. 23 ..........................................................
Mariposa No. 24 ........................................................
Georgetown No. 25 ..................................................
El Dorado No. 26 ......................................................
Trinity No. 27 ..........................................................
Golden Gate No. 30 ..................................................
Gold Hill No. 32 ........................................................
Ophir No. 33 ..............................................................
San Diego No. 35 ....................................................
Howard No. 37 ..........................................................
Santa Cruz, No. 38 ..................................................
Sacramento No. 40 ............................................•.......
Martinez No. 41 ........................................................
Los Angeles No. 42 ..................................................
Hiram No. 43 ..............................................................
Mount Moriah No. 44 .... ,.........................................
Crescent No. 45 ..........................................................
Texas No. 46 ..............................................................
Forbestown No. 50 ....................................................
Illinois town No. 51 ..................................................
5

510
337
726
211
159
62
180
101
616
91
44
512
186
325
528
222
662
51
383
133
41
56
. 65
1

t~fc~~oN ~ o~ 56···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Santa Rosa No. 57 .................................................... 390
Union No. 58 .............................................................. 508
Gravel Range No. 59 ..............................................
46
Plumas No. 60 .......................................................... 100
Live Oak No. 61 ·············---~---································· 901
Natoma No. 64 .....................................................'... 125
Amador No. 65 ..........................................................
70
Forest No. 66 ............................................................
43
Morning Star No. 68 .............................................. 422
Enterprise No. 70 ...................................................... 208
Bear Mountain No. 76 ............................................
67
Calaveras No. 78 ........................................................
73
Humboldt No. 79 ...................................................... 309
Ione No. 80 ..................................................................
70
Yolo No. 81 ................................................................
52
V_esper No. 84 ............................................................ 157
Naval No. 87 .............................................................. 644
Rose's Bar No. 89 ....................................................
35
North Star No. 91 ....................................................
41
St. Helena No. 93 ....................................................
77
Henry Clay No. 95 ..............................._...................
52
Hornitos No. 98 ........................................................
78
Yosemite No. 99 ......................................·................ 250
Clay No. 101 ..............................................................
64
Oroville No. 103 ............................................... :........ 243
Lexington No. 104 .................................................... 186
Arcata No. 106 ............................................................ 188
Pajaro No. 110 .......................................................... 228
Chico No. lll ............................................................. 309
Summit No. 112 ........................................................
41

557
, Total
Contributions

658.50
553.50
820.11
122.50
199.00
54.25
257.00
137.50
493.00
5.50
15.00
584.64
214.50
325.00
681.50
150.80
209.00
15.00
474.50
109.75
41.00
56.00
16.00
121.00
44.50
239.50
1,090.50
34.50
105.54
1,251.00
208.00
43.00
52.50
1,008.00
80.00
50.00 .
58.50
174.50
60.00
52.50
157.00
1,072.19
30.00
10.00
117.00

77.50
29.50
230.00
42.50
245.50
186.00
43.00
304.25
330.50
12:00

Cert.
No.

239
44
303
188
90
36

267
343
3_08
189

40
6
5
192
143
24
329
80
247
114
69

212
71
223
179
184

288
19
82
355

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

558

1941
Membership

Eden No. 113 ··············-···-·-·-·--·--·······-----········-··------··
Concord No. 117 ·····-·---··-·····-··-·-···········--·--·-······'·--·-·
Fidelity No. 120 ·-----·-···-·'-·---·--····-··-··-··········-·-·-········
Alamo No. 122 ···-·········--'·---···········'········----··············
Sotoyome No. 123 ··-·------·······-----·-··-··-···--···-··------·---···
Table Mountain No. 124 ·----·-··-··--·-··--··-·-···-··-··-·--·
Lafayette No. 126..................................:.............-......
Hermann No. 127 ·--·----··-·····-·----·······'--··-··········-·--···
Visalia No. 128 ··---------·····--··--·-·······----······-··---····-······
Nicolaus No. 129 ·····-·--···---···-··----··-·-···----··-········-----··
1

~~~e~~;~d~eo.N1~2 :.~..:::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::'.::::::::::::
Vacaville No. 134 ·-···-·····---···-···-·-······-·······-·············-·
Valley No. 135 ··-······-------·~·-·-----·---···---·---·········----········
Pacific 'No. 136 ·----··-····--··-··-···-·----··········--············--·-·
Crockett No. 139 ·---·-·-···--··---'·-·····-·-·-'·········-··-·······-···
Curtis No. 140 ······-··········--···-··-··-·-··········-··············--··
Grafton No. 141 ·····---·--'······-'--·········-·········-···-··········
Franklin No. 143 ····-----:·····------·······--··-·········-···--······
Oriental ' No. 144 .........:..·-······-----···················----·--·-·
Vitruvius No. 145 ....;...........:--'········-··········---·-·······-··
Abell No. 146 ·--·--·······-----···········-·--·······--·--····-·-··-·---·Eel River · No. 147 ··------··-········-----····--·---·-·-····-·-------Lassen No. 149 ·------·-----···-·------·--·--··--·--·-···--·---·····-·--. Molino No. 150 --···------··-·---------·····-·--···-·-···----····-··--·
Woodland No. 156 ··--·--·':·-··-·--··--·-··-····-········'····'·----·
Keystone No. 161 ·········'·······-···--·········'-·····'·-···--·····

~:~::~~~ ~~: ~~:-·:::::::::':::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Alameda No. 167 ················--·----··-··-·-----··-·---·······--·
Redwood City No. 168 ·-----·············-·····----·······-·-----·
Mission Nci. 169 ······---·-·-·······--·-···--···-····················-··
Elk Grove No. 173 ········--······----·-·····-·-'·'--···--··'·'·----·
Drytown No. 174 ··---·---·····----·--·-·····--···-······--·········-··
Antioch No. 17 5 ···--·····-··-----······-~---······-··--··········-----·
Phoenix No. 178 ·---········---········-······-·······--··············
Mendocino No. · 179 ····--···········-········--········----··········
Petaluma No. 180 -·-·--·-··--·--···········-·········-······-··----····
Russian River No. 181 ········---······-··-····-······--·······-··
Arbuckle No. 182 ·---··········-·····------··-----·-··········--·······
Clear Lake No. 183 ·······-----·····-·-··-·····-·-----·····-------·-·
Sierra Valley No. 184 ····--·-·-·······-····················-·-----·
Claiborne No. 185 ·····--···-····-·-··--······--·········--·-·········
Evening Star No. 186 ·-····--······----·-·-··-·---··········----···
Keith No. 187 ···--·········--··-·····--······--·-··········-·-·········-Oakland No. 188 ··--·'·····-·-··-···---····-·····--·····---··-········
Northern Light No. 190 ······-----···-·---·····-····-··---···--··
Marin No. 191 ····------····-··--········--···--·-··········--··········
Santa Barbara No. 192 ··-·--····--·-----···--·····················
Ferndale No. 193 ···········.- ·-····--·-···········-·-·-······-··-···-··
Mountain View No. 194 ··---····-····-··-·-··---······------·-Buckeye No. 195 ·····--··-···----··--·-····-······--··----····-------San Simeon No. 196 ·---······--····--·--·-··-·-·---·····-···-······-··
Wilmington No. 198 ----·····-·-·--·--·-·--···-·--·--·····-··-·----Hartley No. 199 ···-···---·-·····-···-·------·-··-·-··-·-··--·-·········--

207
238
527
142
146
97
175
201
319
81
110
82
141
61
582
573
60
67
88
401
97
156
166
155
108
241
25
15
498
124
278
673
113
27
136
461
117
263
88
73
41
32
51
44
137
755
79
431
212
122
178
113
100
288
166

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Total
Contributions

No.

290.50
265
256
244.50 ·
242
673.50
157.00
198
136.00
149.25
84
43.75.
202.00
249
161
480.50
53.00
71.50
82.50 . . lQ6
68.60
20.00
990.50
10
.. 17
786.50
39.50
2.00
253.00
·251
494.50
72
147
106.39
197.57 ' 218
11.50
188.00
335
306
120.00
39.00
24.00
662.21
125.00
175.50
961.00
22.00
4.00
159.00
505.00
42.00
220.00
125.50
19.00
46.00
44.50
14.00
16.50
137.00
837.00
92.50
488.50
138.00
53.50
189.00
66.00
46.00
379.32
122.00

1941
Membership

Cert.

271
27
181
21
207
225
195
186
22
308
119
34
330
148

Truckee 'No. 200 ····-··-----···-·--·····-------------~---·······-·······
Silveyville No. 201 -----·--·---·----··---------·-·--·----------·---····
Pentalpha No. 202 --·----·---·-------·-···-····-··-··-----·-··----···Confidence No. 203 ·····-·······-·--·-------------·-··-·-········-·-·
Salinas. No: 204 ···-·-·-'······-·-----······-·····--··-----·--····-·····
Olivet No. 205 -------·-·--·-·-······-····--------------·····-······---·--Stanislaus No. 206 ·--·--······--·······-------------·-------··--·--···
Anaheim No. 207 ··----·-·-----·--·-····---···--·-------·---·--···-····
Rio Vista No. 208 ·············--'-··---············---------·---·---King David's No. 209 ·--··-·····-···---------·-----·-----········
Friendship No. 210 ··········--·--···------··--········--·-------·--San Benito No. 211 ··-·--··----···-·-·-·---···---·-----··----······
South San Francisco No. 212 --·--···-·······--------····---·
San Buenaventura No. 214 ···-·-··----·---··············-·-·-Oak Grove No. 215 ·····-·----··---··················-········--·····
Doric No. 216. ············'········-·········-·-··························
Monterey No. 217 ·····-·······-·····-··················-··--·········
Mosaic No. 218 ........,....•............_. ..._...........................
Speranza Italiana No. 219 -···-···········-···-·····-······-·--·-Downey No. 220 ............, .......,.....'..............................
Inyo N,o.- 221 ··-···········-"·············································
Roseville No. 222 ·········-·········-·-·····················-········
Bakersfield No.. 224 ···---··--·-·-······-··----·--····-···········-·
Brooklyn No. 225 ·····--···-··-··-····-··--·--·-··--············--·····
San Mateo No. 226 ....................................................
Athens . Np. 228 ·······-···-············································
Solano ·No. 229 -···-···············---··-·····························--·
North Butte No. 230 ·········--·····-·····-···--·····--------·-·····
Covelo No. 231 ·····-···-·'-··-·-··-··-···········-···-·······-··-·······
Janesville No. 232 -·-·--·····-·--···-··············-·········-·······-

100
123
533
25
318
87
350
235
96
301
513
129
224
287
526
453
145
135
356
192
74
264
437
522
226
119
426
120
49
59

Surprise Valley No. 235 ···-·········-····-··-·-····-·········---·
Hills Ferry No. 236 ·'······-·····················-·········-·······
Guadalupe No. 237 -·······················-····-···-················
Colusa No. 240 ...........:..............................................
Santa Ana No. 241 ·-·-·······-·········-······-·················:...
Magnolia No. 242 ····-··········--··---···--··-·-·····-····-··-····-···
Eucalyptus No. 243 ·'··-···--·······-·-·..··-·····.. ··-············
Alcatra,: No. 244 ··---··----·····-·-···--·-··-··-···-··-····-····-·····
Laurel No. 245 ·····-·······-···-·--···········-··---··-·-··········-····
Pomona No. 246 ···-·-······-···--········--···--·········.. ·--·······
Fresno No. 247 ····-·--··········--·-···-···--········-·-·········--·····
Alturas No. 248 ·----········--·············-····--·-··-···-···-··---···
Adin No. 250 ······-····--··········---·····-·····----·······---···--······
Landmark. No. 253 ······-··----··-············-·-···········-····-····
Reading No. 254 ···-······-·-·--··-·······-·-·---··---·····-·-···-·--Welcome No. 255 ··········--·-----·-······-··----············-··--·Lodi No. 256 ··-········--··············--···---···---········--·--·-······
Penrhyn No. 258 ·············-·--······'··-·-···--····-·-·····-·······
Evergreen No. 259 ··-·········------·········-······-········-·······King Solomon's No. 260 -·········-···············--············
Tuscan No. 261 ······---··--············-··-····-·-····-·····---·····-···
Lompoc No. 262 -···-·-···-··-····--·······--·,························Hesperian No. 264 ··--·····································-··---·····

55
100
51
147
418
240
248
463
171
279
568
139
59
86
180
111
282
96
463
553
79
110
219

~~~s:~~ o~ ~3;3:. ::::::::-:'.: :.::::::::::::::::::::~::·:·:::::::::::::::::: ~~

559
Total
Contributions

Cert.
No.

58.00
123.00
60
603.50
309
16.00
336.00
110
103.50
107
173.25
235.00
133
65.00
311.00
159
582.50
277
175.50 )03
i 11.25
287.75
338
522.00
396,00
59.50
. 173.50
228
400.00
289
151
193.25
89.00
33
381.25
166
613.50
45
306.36.
100.00
166.50
304
412.00
120.00
35
10.00
80.00
275
104.50
208
62.00
8
16.00
160.75
344
123.50
46
76.00
193
328.00
18
395.00
245.00
328.00
174.50
81
288.00
134
700.50
276
104.50
25.00
46.40
180.00
28
112.00 I 203
191.50
73.50
226.00
420.50
43.00
134.00
70
109.00

560

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1941
Membership

Oi-land No. 265 ........................................................ 106
North East No. 266 ................................................ 51
Galt No. 267 .............................................................. 63
Durant No. 268 ........................................................ 545
Olive Branch No. 269 ............................................ 191
Snow Mountain No. 271 ........................................ 40
Pasadena No. 272 ...................................................... 433
Anchor No. 273 .......................................................... 259
Arroyo No. 274 .......................................................... 79
Oakdale No. 275 ........................................................ 116
Selma No. 277 ............................................................ 142
Southern California No. 278 .................................. 481
Hanford No. 279 ........................................................ 144
Madera No. 280 .......................................................... 164
Mount Shasta No. 281 .............................................. 56
Calayomi No. 282 ...................................................... 52·
South West No. 283 ................................................ 172
S;m Miguel No. 285 ................................................ 45
Paso Robles No. 286 ................................................ 118
Winnedumah No. 287 .............................................. 108
Maxwell No. 288 ......................................................... 49
Elsinore No. 289 ...........,.............................,............... 105
East Gate No. 290 .................................................... 723
Santa Paula No. 291 .......................... ..................... 256
Los Gatos No. 292 .................................................... 207
Qrange Grove No. 293 .............................................. 191
Traver No. 294 ...................................,........................ 100
Mt. Jackson No. 295 .................................................. 112
Silver Gate No. 296 .................................................. 561
Dunsmuir No. 297 ...........................~................... .... 193
Liberty No. 299 .......................................................... 220
Redlands · No. 300 .................................................... 332
Ontario No. 301 ........................................................ 206
Santa Lucia No. 302 .................................................. 91
Porterville No. 303 .................................................. 305
Reedley No. 304 ........................................................ 127
Azusa No. 305 ............................................................ 150
Ashlar No. 306 .......................................................... 163
Santa Monica No. 307 .............................................. 241
Monrovia No. 308 .................................................... 205
Delano No. 309 .......................................................... 161
Sisson No. 310 ............................................................ 67
Los Banos No. 312 ................................................ 108
Tehachapi No. 313 .................................................... 148
Temescal No. 314 .................................................... 132
Norwalk No. 315 ........................................................ 117
Sanger No. 316 .......................................................... 179
Fallbrook No. 317 .................................................... 53
Emahuel No. 318 ..................................,................... 71
Hollenbeck .No. 319 ...................,.............................. 1054
South Gate No. 320 ................................................ 599
Alisa! No. 321 ............................................................ 102
Alhambra No. 322 .................................................... 384
Whittier No. 323 ...................................................... 448
Corona No. 324 .......................................................... 446
Consuelo No. 325 ...................................................... 153

Total
Contributions

98.00
53.00
18.00
252.00
313.50
12.50
226.00
381.00
101.00
142.00
142.00
552.00
50.35
239.50
74.00
50.00
7.00
43.00
323.00
127.00
10.00
147.00
874.50
323.50
210.00
236.57
100.00
55.00
449.50
198.00
249.75
340.00
211.00
43.00
246.92
136.50
86.00
103.00
258.50
206.00
218.00
4.50
110.24
188.50
146.50
118.00
164.00
74.00
16.50
947.90
273.54
106.00
406.00
487.50
383.50
174.00

Cert.
No.

140
25
156
248
280
3

91
51
61

138
278
43
319
73
336
37
340

77
234
176
281
353

75
108
290
177
49
58
150
354

214
235
39
257

1941
Membership

Needles No. 326 ........................................................ 216
Long Beach No. 327 ................................................ 485
Redondo No. 328 ...................................................... .201
Vallee de France No. 329 ...................................... 117
Kilauea No. 330 ........................................................ 182
Pacific Grove No. 331 .............................................. 156
San Pedro No. 332 ..................................:................. 425
Alta No. 333 .............................................................. 62
Covina No. 334 .......................................................... 192
West Gate No. 335 .................................................... 763
Fruitvale No. 336 ...................................................... 749
Carquinez No. 337 ...................................................... 147
San Jacinto No. 338 .................................................. 76
Fullerton No. 339 ...............................................:...... 32.8
Oxnard No. 341 .......................................................... 221
San Fernando No. 343 ............................................ 246
Starr King No. 344 .................................................. 511
Brentwood No. 345 .................................................. 76
Palo Alto No. 346 .................................................... 451
McKin!'ey No. 347 .................................................... 299
San Bernardino No. 348 .......................................... 504
Sequoia No. 349 .............................,.......................... 857
Palestine No. 35·1 ...................................................... 484
Sunset No. 352 ..... ,.................................................. 369
Pinole No. 353 .....;.................................................... 125
Presidio No. 354 ........................................................ 495
Hollywood No. 355 .................................................. 717
Mill Valley No. 356 .................................................. 299
Buena Park No. 357 .................................................. 121
Golden State No. 358 .............................................. 782
Loyalton No. 359 ...................................................... 71
San Francisco No. 360 .............................................. 334
Fort Bragg No. 361 .................................................. , 93
Charity No. 362 .................,...................................... 109
Berkeley No. 363 ........................................................ 484
Willits N; o. 365 ..................................................... .... 126
Las Palm as No. 366 ................................................ 626
South Pasadena No. 367 .......................................... 459
Unity No. 368 ...- ....................................................... 354
Ocean Park No. 369 .................................................. 309
Amity No. 370 ............................................................ 451
le Progres de L'Oceanie No. 371 ........................ 364
Gardena No. 372 ...................................................... 150
West Los Angeles No. 373 .................................. 196
Jewel No. 374 .... ,......................................................... 128
Richmond No. 375 .. ,.,............................................. 543
Francis Drake No. 376 ............................................ 189
Artesia No. 377 .......................................................... 77
Mizpah No. 378 .......................:.....;;; ..:..................... 338
Fillmore No. 379 ...................................................... 152
Huntington Beach No. 380 ...................................... 243
Oceanside No. 381 .......... _........................................ 116
Highland Park, No. 382 ........................................ 415
Orosi No. 383 .................................................., ....,.... 81
El Centro No. 384 .......,...............,............................... 285
Dinuba No. 385 .......................................................... 170

561
Total
Contributions

Cert.
No.

300.00
651.84
248.50
136.75
283.00
156.00
834.00
20.00
175.00
851.25
1,202.50
160.60
76.00
272.50
359.50
368.50
221.00

38
230
323
96
273
345
13
286
268
252
62
97
53

359.50
243.00
542.50
315
1,071.75
163
484.00
274
449.50
173
125.50
358
303.35
504.50
262.75
160.25
346
704.00
62.50
376.50
171
93.00
231
118.00
332
346.00
89.00
659.00
314
646.00
320
410.50 . . 165
309.00
85
287.00
1,216.53
298
86.00
98
207.00
165.50
175
490.50 .
178.50
77.00 . ·• 139
73.50
131
215.75
180.50
147.00
3j7
500.00
243
23.50
162.00
12
170.00

S62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1941
Membership

Coalinga No. 387 ......................................................
Parnassus No. 388 ..........._.........................................
Palos Verdes No. 389 ................................................
Imperial No. 390 ........,...............................................
East Belt No. 391 ....................................................
West Lake No. 392 ..................................................
Baider No. · 393 ..........................................................
University No. 394 ....................................................
Turlock No. 39S ........................................................
Apollo No. 396 ..........................................................
Rising Light No. 397 ..............................................
Fraternity No. 399 ....................................................
Burlingame No. 400 ..................................................
Bay View No. 401 ....................................................
Brawley No. 402 ........................................................
Yerba Buena No. 403 ..............................................
Glendora No. 404 ......................................................
Moneta No. 40S ..........................................................
Burbank No. 406 ......................................................
La Mesa No. 407 ........................................................
Sierra M4dre No. 408 ..............................................
Honolulu No. 409 ......................................................
Charter Rock No. 410 ............................................
Perris No. 411 ................................_._,,.,,...,....,.,.. ,.._.....
Calexcio No. 412 ......................................................
Waucoba No. 413 ................................ ,.....................
Arlington No. 414 ....................................................
Silver Trowel No. 41S ............................................
Lindsay No. 416 ........................................................
Clovis No. 417 ..........................................................
Elysian No. · 418 ........................................................
Upland No. 419 ........................................................
Kerman No. 420 ......................................................
Inglewood No. 421 ....................................................
Eagle Rock No. 422 ..................................................
York No. 423 ..............................................................
Exeter No. 424 ........................................................
Holtville No. 42S .................................................... ....
Midway No. 426 ......................................................
Chino Valley No. 427 ................................................
San Dimas No. 428 ....................................................
Pittsburg No. 429 ........._.\'...................................,....
McCloud No. 430 ...........................................~..........
Alpha No. 431 ............................................................
Hammonton No. 433 ................................................
Maricopa No. 434 ......................................................
Fairmount No. 43S ..................................................
Claremont No. 436 ..................................................
Lancaster No. 437 ....................................................

2Sl
621
S22
68
63
939
4S6
476
182
JS2
S40
368
388
307
119 ·
439
91
617
281
139
80
222
362
7S
129
42
298
298
14S
242
411
134
Sl
297
2SJ
178
lSO
87
337
SS
104
149
102
383
6S
lSO
477
93
1 lS

4
~~~f~~ ~~- J:9 ··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Standard No. 440 .................................................... 29S
Coronado No. 441 .................................................... 17S
Blackmer No. 442 .............................-......................... SOJ
Schofield No. 443 .................................................... 198

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Total
Contributions

Cert.
No.

427.00
699.68
SJO.SO
76.7S
20.00
1,314.00
614.SO
663.00
27S.7S
JS6.00
616.20
320.7S
49S.2S
138.SO
1S6.SO
4SS.01
49.00
418.00
299.SO
S7.00
93.00
472.00
469.SO
S2.00
79.oo
89.SO
329.SO
314.SO
21S.2S
261.00
S77.SS
4S.SO
S4.00
300.00
306.0S
92.87
302.SO
4S.00
294.SO
26.00
109.00
47.SO
121.50
439.00
28.00
227.00
169.00
146.00
279.00
78.00
61.SO
309.2S
463.2S
249.SO
347.7S

20
333
lSS
204
219
162
187
324
316
310
169
194
301
32S
200
92
2SO
78
29S
3_02
121
341
291
89
182
178
11

236

$47
260
266
130
23
339
299
llS
93

1941
Membership

Carpinteria No. 444 .................................................. 76
Wilshire No. 44S ...................................................... S08
La Puente No. 446 .................................................... 67
Torrance No. 447 ...................................................... 198
Mount Diablo No. 448 .............................................. lSJ
Park Nd. 449 .............................................................. 408
Van Nuys -No. 4SO .................................................... 264
Montebello No. 4Sl .................................................. 234
San Pasqual No. 4S2 ................................................ 336
Bethlehem No. 4SJ .................................................... 292
Crocker· No. 4S4 ...................................................... 288
Golden West No. 4SS ................................................ 44S
Ramona No. 4S7 .........- ........................................... 20S
Henry S. Orme No. 4S8 .......................................... Sll
Riverbank No. 4S9 ................................................ ....
80
Mount Oso No. 460 .............................................. 199
Argonaut No. 461 .................................................... 34S
Paul Revere No. 462 .............................................. 441
Morgan Hill No. 463 ..............................................· 97
Alta Vista No. 464 .......,............................................ 270
Center -N o. 46S ...........~ ............................-................ 338
Libertas ' No. 466 ...................................................... 2S2
Culver City No. 467 ................................................ 18S
Rockridge No. 468 ................~........................... ........ JSJ
Yorba Linda No. 469 .............................................. 84 ·
Lincoln No. 470 .......................................................... 2S6
Delta No. 471 ............................................................ 298
Maui No. 472 .............................................................. 130
Blythe No. 473 ............................................................
49
Victory No. 474 ........................................................ 193
America No. 47S ........................................................ JS4
Coachella No. 476 .................................................... 8S
Temblor No. 477 ...................................................... 116
Thousand Oaks No. 478 ........................................ 310
Golden Rule No. 479 ..............................-................ 367
Fellowship No. 480 .................................................... 196
Mt. Davidson No. 481 .............................................. 280
Clarence F. Smith No. 482 .................................... 2SO
Bell No. 483 ................................................................ 218
Albert Pike No. 484 ..................................._............. 197
Chowchilla No. 48S ... ~ ...........................................,..
74
Caledonia No. 486 ...................................................... 204
Vallejo No. 487 .......................................................... 230
Patterson No. 488 ....................................................
63
East Bay No. 489 ...................................................... 2S4
Corcoran No. 490 ......................................................
72
Woodstock No. 491 .................................................. 172
Garvanza No. 492 .................................................... 1S9
Atascadero No. 493 .................................................... 61
Acorn No. 494 .......................................................... JS4
Lebanon No. 49S ........................................................ 309
Riverdale No. 496 ........................................-............
S9
Fremont No. 497 ........................................................ 306
Stockton No. 498 ...................................................... 122
Capital City No. 499 .~........................................... 203

563
Total
Contributions

27.00
719.SO
72.00
208.00
84.00
409.00
308.SO
284.JS
341.00
324.SO
S8.00
333.00
100.00
S20.SO
27.SO
213.10
soo.so
61S.76
130.00
282.00
JSl.70
427.SO
268.6S
197.00
84.00
238,SO
331.46
66.00
49.00
208.SO
7S.OO
73.00
148.SO
334.00
588.2S
78.SO
313.SO
2S8.SO
239.03
SJ.OS
48.37
19S.OO
214.SO
9.00
19S.50
20.25
202.00
177.00
69.00
168.00
410.50
34.50
460.72
193.00
251.00

Cert.
No.

so
246
312
311
217
202
99
125

2S8
135
16
174
74
238
292
111
348
261
253
26
215
357
282
63
199

296
269

127
116
349
157
245
29
240

S64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1941
Membership

Roosevelt No. SOO -·············-····--··--·-·-··-·······------------·-Westwood No. 501 -·-·····-----·-·-·--········-----··----··---····-Harbor No. 502 --··-----------····-··-···------·--················--·-Point No. S03 ·-·-----··-················----------·-······-------·-····
Seaside No. 504 ..........................................................
Silver Cord No. SOS ---···········---·--------·-----··-------··--Mount Olive No. 506 --···········--···············-···----------·-··
El Segundo No. 507 ·----·--·····--···--···--·-·----·-···---·-·------Joppa No. 508 -------············---···--·-------··---······---·----·····Benjamin Franklin No. S09 -··--·········-·-·-······-·····---·Cupertino ·No. SlO --··---------·--·-···--·---·--------·---·----------Sunnyvale No. S11 ----------------·--·····---·----------------·------Palms No. S12 -····---·------·····---------··········--------·-······--Cahuenga No. S13 ----··-·······-··---····---·-·-------·--------·-·--·
Argonne No. 514 -----·---·······-·········----------· ··-----------·--Vermont Square No. SlS ·----·-----···-····----···--------·---Taft No. 516 ---------------·---········--·--·········-----·-··--·-···--Mount Vernon No. S17 --····-··-··---········-····-·····--·-····-La Jolla No: S18 -······--------··---·-··-···················-------·---Euclid No. S19 --------·----·····------··------------------------------Ionic No. S20 ----·----------····--·-------------------------------------Piedmont No. 521 -------···-----------------------------------------·
Sunrise No. S22 ····-----------··-·--·--·--······--·--·-···-····------Bellflower No. 523 ---·--··---·-····--·------·-----·---·--------··· ··-Catalina ·Island No. S24 ---·-·················-----·····-·····---·
George Washington No. 52S ................................
Bay City No. 526 ······------·---------·-·---·-···-···········-········
Covenant No. S27 ---········---···------·-·················---·-·····
Beverly Hills No. 528 ·•···--·--·········---------···-·-----·-····
Loyalty No. 529 ··-----·---·-··················----··----·--·-·-----·-····
Sun Garden No. 530 ....... :........................................
Alexandria No. 531 ..................................................
Smyrna No. S32 ---·---·-·-····--·----···········-········-----·-·--··
Azure No. S33 -·····-·--··--·----·-················--·················-·
Fore st Hill No. 534 •.................................. ...............
Alexander Hamilton No. 53S ..................................
Seal Rock No. 536 ....................................................
Utopia No. 537 .............. ............................................
Ascot No. 538 ............................................................
Belvedere No. 539 ·-··················-···-·················-----·······
Queen Beach No. S40 ............................................
Henry Morse Stephens No. S41 -···---········-·······-Lankershim No. 542 -·····--·-·--·---·---········-----··-·········-Signal No. 543 .................................•........................
Glendale No. S44 ····--·-·--········--·-·······-····················----Jonathan No. 545 -····---------·······················-·-···-··········
San Gabriel No. S46 ------·····--·········--·---------·····--·-·····
Arcadia No. 547 .. :.....................................................
Triangle No. S48 ······--····················-------------·-·---·-·····
Justice No. S49 ·············----·-·····-·-············----·--··········-Seaport No. 550 ..........................................................
Lakeshore No. S51 -····················· ··············---------···-·
Semper Virens No. SS2 ..........................................
Educator No. 5S4 ....................................................
White Pine No. SSS -···--··-····--·····-·························----

137
199
164
92
290
291
610
168
54
208
80
112
180
299
329
347
173
202
118
247
303
216
191
169
101
269
208
2S3
233
239
363
117
54
17S
96
134
129
468
214
194
113
279
267
260
317
152
138
122
109
154
159
176
138
249
78

Total
Contributions

122.00
279.25
108.50
114.00
360.75
294.00
518.10
65.00
54.00
133.50
92.00
112.00
180.00
637.SO
129.00
205.53
236.75
214.25
121.00
277.75
440.63
218.20
195.25
208.17
37.00
239.40

Cert.
No.

270
350
196
185

141
129
67
283
120

224
142
76
218
321
154
14S
1S2

111.50
103.6S
28.50
249.50
275.30
3S.OO
88.00
74.00
20.SO
240.00
89.50
93.75

94

293

287

71.00
97.00
117.40
97.50
353.00
297.25
437.0@
92.00
86.00
1S2.00
27.00
247.50
227.50
228.50
15.00
262.00 .
129.75

297
334
211
216

279
1_72
64
128
144
133

1941
Membership

Fairfax No. 556 ..........................................................
Hermosa No. 557 --------···-------------·-········-····------·········
Point Firmin No. 558
Craftsman No. 5S9 .... ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Plymouth No. 560 -·-·····--·······--------··-··-······-·--·-····-··-East San Diego No. 561 --·---------·-··········--······--········
Pyramid No. 562 ---··------·-····'. ................................... .
South Park No. 563 ..................................................
Foothill No. 564 ....................................................... .
West Adams No. 565 ···············-·······--···········--··--····
James A. .Garfield No. 566 ......................................
Searchlight No. 567 ................................................. .
Park Boulevard No. 568 ----····-···-·········-··--··--······-·····Chateau Thierry No. 569 ....................................... .
Military Service No. 570 ....................................... .
Francis K. Shattuck No. 571 ............... :............. .
James Madison No. 572 ·····-----·········--··--··········--·--··
Hillcrest No. 573 -·-·--·····-----------···--····-··········----·-······-S. W. Hackett, No. 57 4 ····--·····---·········-·-·····-·····-·-·--Fort Crook No. 575 ········--··-······---···········--··----·--·····El Cajon :Valley No. 576 ....................................... .
Sunnyside No. 577 ................................................... .
Progressive No. 578 -----······-----------·------·-········-····-Warren \'I- Harding No. 579 ··--·-··········---··----------Santa Maria No. 580 ·········--·····----····--·--·--------····--·Security No. 581 --------------···---······--·-·····-------------------·Rialto No. 582 ---··-·----·-···································-----··--Wasco No. 583 ................... :....................................
Harding No. 584 -----···········-······-···--·---··--·····--·-·-------Manchester No. S85 --····--·-··-···········-------·---------------Garden Grove No. 586 -·------------------·-······-·-····--··-·--Valley Forge No. 587 ·-··--·------··-·-·--···-····----------------El Sereno No. 588 °......................................................
Kauai No. 589 ---···----·········-·································--···-Compass No. 590 ......................................................
Escalon No. 591 --·-·--·-··········-····-··············--·-······-·····Tujunga No. 592 ......................................................
All States No. 593 ..................................................... .
Service No. 594 -·-···---·-····--····----·-··-·····-··················--··
Alexander Graham Bell No. 595 ........................... .
Guardian No. 596 ..................................................... .
Pearl Harbor No. 598 ··-····----·-----·-······--··--···············
Carmelita No. 599 -------··············---········-········-·-·------Lynwood No. 600 -----------·--··················--··: .................
Grizzly' No. 601 ----·-··-------·-········--·---····--······---··-----·--··
~~~o:J ~· ~~2 __ _._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._....-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-_-_-_._._._._._._._-_-.-.-.-.·_-_-_._._._-_._.

6

Jubilee No. 604 ....................................................... .
Glass.ell Park No. 605 ..............................................
Sojourner No. 607 ·-----·---·········--·-···········--·----·-·········
Granada No. 608 ---------------·--·······-··-···-·······················
Provident No. 609 ......................................................
Elmhurst No. 610 ·--························-·--·----··················
Canoga No. 611 ........................................................
Temple City No. 612 ............................................... .

112

116
252
217
191
294
189
300
245
202
142
304
222
202
249
170
157
56
188
81
59
244
282
172
48
207
85
143
149
211
89
203
181
96
131
76
135
273
305
171
260
226
185
129
95
123
182
164
229
78
297
165
129
111
116

56S
Total
Contributions

83.50
83.00
256.75
315.78
289.25
294.00
65.28
344.00
318.00
255.50
54.75
241.75
283.00
235.00
256.37
170.00
46.50
. 63.00
261.00
142.50
38.00
551.00
317.25
87.00
53.00
308.17
6.00
216.00
56.00
219.50
89.00
226.80
181.00
47.00
241.94
30.00
165.00
511.36
179.50
204.50
428.50
545.35
240.50
130.00

Cert.
No.

183
88
213
65
136
237
113

294
57
146
160
68
226
180
102
317

9
241
356
132
220

4

7
87
104
83
31
100
167
52
117

9.00
125.20
261.45
186.00
255.00
84.00
300.00
185.50
129.00
116.00
82.00

313
209
153
229
~01

326
158
327
14

GRAND L!)DGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

566

1941
Membership

Three Pillars No. 613 ---.. ·---------..--------..·-------------------- 191
Larchmont No. 614 ------------------·····-----··-------------------- 202
Hemet No. 615 -·-------·-----'-----·------------------------------------ 90
R. E. Dolley No. 616 ----------------------·------·--·-------------·77
Big Bear No. 617 -----------·-------..--.--:_________________________
51
Southland No. 618 -----·-·---------'-------------·-------------------- 175

~~f~:~o1~~-~~. 6ZO·-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~ g
9

The Gardens No. 621 -----------·--------------------------------·
Atwater No. 622 ----------------------------------------------··-------Menorah No. 623 ---------------------·----------·--------------------Fortitude No. 624 --------·------------·-----------------------·-------Angeles Mesa No. 625 ---------------------------------------------Chula Vista No. 626 ------------·-----------..·--------··--------Lamanda Park No. 627 ·----------------------------------------Truth No. 628 --------------------------------------:....--------··--------Fairview No. 629 ------------------------------··---------------------Ingleside No. 630 ------------------------------------------··-------Benevolence No. 631 ---------------------------·-----------·-------Normal Heights No. 632 ---------..------------------------------Poinsettia No. 633 ------------------··-------------.. ·-----·---------Victorville No. 634 --·--------------·-·--------------------·--------Riverside No. 635 ·------------------------------··----------··-------·John Marshall No. 636 ·-·------------------.. ·----------·--------Palisades No. 637 ------------------------------..------------;_________
Indian Rock, No. 638 --'--------------------·--------------------Composite No. 639 ---..-·-·---------------------·--------·-----'------Veritas No. 640 --·-------·--.------------------------·--------.-----------Jam es A. Foshay No. 641 -----·-----..----·------------.. -----La Cumbre No. 642 --------------------------------------·--------Alta
Loma
--------------------------------..
-----·--··-------Lomita
No. No.
644 643
__,. _____________
_________:_____________________
____:_____

199
170
342
129
318
105
106
164
104
96
194
182
310
82
167
96
197
120
148
85
103
91
230
94

A. F. E . Irwin No. 645 --------------------------·----------------Metropolitan No. 646 ------·------·---------··-----------··-------Hawthorne No. 647 --·--------------------------------------------Damascus No. 648 ------------------------·----·---·--------·------Florence No. 649 -----·------··--------·--..--------·----------..·------La Brea No. 650 ·----------------------------------·-------------------Menlo Park No. 651 _,·-·---------·----·-----·-------------.-~---Crescenta Valley No. 652 ---------------------------------------Fontana No. 653 --------------------------------··---··-----------------

163
77
66
217
204
190
80
121
81

Citro! No. 656 ------------------··-----------------------------------------John D. Spreckels No. 657 -----------------------------------Livingston No. 658 -------·---------..----------·-------·----·----·-·
La Habra No. 659 ---------------.----·---------·-·----·-----·--------·
Baldwin Park No. 660 ··-·--·-----------'----··-----------·------···
Malta, No. 661 ---·---------~------·------- ..·------·-----------·----·----Henry Knox No. 662 ---..-----------·-------..·--·-------·---------Ojai No. 663 -------------------·- ---------····-·-------·---------·-------··
Kaweah No. 665 --------------------------------------------··-------Reseda No. 666 -·-------------··--------------------------------·-------Meridian No. 667 ··--------··----------·-----------·----------·-------·
San Gorgonio No. 668 ·-----------..---·------------------·---------

118
306
62
76
61
109
246
53
63
84 173
90

iJ~~~~ v~~·a ~!. 655·-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Total
Contributions

Cert.
No.

191.00
188.50
32.50
78.50
20.00
178.00
114.00
238.00
100.25
151.50 '
203.00
137.00
166.00
16.00
112.00
290.00
169.00
101.00
179.00
380.50
424.00
102.00
97.00
96.00
258.25
140.75
189.00
63.50
121.00
108.00
81.50
63.25
244.00
10.00
20.00
268.35
312.00
148.00
83.00
133.50
72.00
280.50
160.50
157.65
357.50'
64.00
108.50
126.00
58.25
281.50
53.50
65.00
89.00
188.00
158.70

95
41
190
168

118
263
54
48
164
321
307
272
191
205
170
351
109
137
149
55
126.
122
254
206
352
222
197
300
123
264
23_2
284
32
255
44

1941
Meolbersblp

.

John P. Jarman No. 669 ---------·----------··---------------.----- 116
Greenleaf No. 670 -------'-·-----------·----------·--------------------- 202
San Clemente No. 671 --------------·-----·-----------:----·-------30
Laguna Beach No. 672 ·-----·------·--------·--------------------71
Far West No. 673 --------------------··-·---·--·--•---------········- 151
Los Cerritos No. 674 ·---·-----..·-·----------------..·-----..··----- 114
Modesto No. 675 ··-"----------------------..··---.................----- 170
Willow Glen No. 676 ...................................... __________ 105
Liberal Arts No. 677 -···-·--..------------.. -------...-..... ________
90
Altadena No. 678 -----------------··-------------·-----------..-----·-- 184
Canby's Cross No. 679 .-..--------·---------------..-------------- 60
Carmel No. 680 ---·-·---------------------..----------------------------59
Dos Palos No. 681 _____________ .................._____________________
42
Barstow No. 682 --.-----------------·---··-----------------------·------56
Redwood Empire No. 683 ·---·-·--------------------------------21
Trona No. 684 -·' -·---·-·-----------------......................... _______
35
Miscellaneous sources other than Lodges ---------Total Contributions October 15, 1943 ______ ,. __________
Total Membership July 31, 1941 ---------------------- 125,842'

567
Total
Contributions

Cert.
No.

120.75
285.00
37.00
78.00
178.50
118.48
372.00
75.50
69.00
276.19
84.00
92.00
95.00
401.95
22.50
240.50
312.25
$131,810.19

259
124
262
1't2
210
79
86
. 15
285
2
1

56
305
47

Adopted.
For financial reports, see Special Appendix.

RESOLUTION
Resolved, That all constituent Lodges of this Grand Jurisdiction be
required to keep their books and records in the uniform system at present
available in the office of the Grand Secretary and presently required to
be used by newly constituted Lodges, or as may be hereafter prescribed
by Grand Lodge.
RALPH K. PIERSON'
FREDERICK WIED,
MILES McCLELLAND,
NIJ-ES 0 . MILLER,
CLARENCE FRASER,
HERBERT R. HARGRAVE,

Past Masters.

Referred to Committee on Policy and·General Purposes.

· Resolution
Whereas, It is the opinion of many members of Grand Lodge that
the Office of Secretary of the constituent Lodges is an important administrative office; and that a correct and efficient discharge of its duties
is essential to the welfare, harmony, and progress of the Lodge ;
And Whereas, It is their further opinion that a thorough knowledge
by the Secretary of the sections of the Constitution and General Regulations of the Grand Lodge as relate to the duties of a Secretary of a

568

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge, as well as a general knowledge of those portions of the Constitution and General Regulations which relate to the government of a Lodge,
is necessary for the efficient discharge of his duties;
Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved, That the Grand Lecturer be directed
by Grand Lodge to require of Inspectors due certification of the proficiency
of brethren elected to the office of Secretary of the constituent Lodges,
such certification to be based upon the proficiency of the Secretary-elect
in those portions of the Constitution and General Regulations of the
Grand Lodge relating to the duties of Secretary of a Lodge, and also
upon his general knowledge of those portions of the Constitution and
General Regulations of the Grand Lodge relating to the government of
a Lodge.
FRANK HARWELL, JR.,
RALPH K. PIERSON'
OWEN R. CRAGHEAD,
HERBERT R. HARGRAVE,

Past Masters.

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes . .
At 12:15 p. m. Grand Lodge called off until 2 :00 o'clock in the
afternoon.

569

Jn ~ranb JLobgt
AFTERNOON SESSION
Tuesday, October 12, 1943.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :00 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The Invocation was given by the V. Rev. Grand Chaplain.

REPORT OF WAR SERVICE COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodyl' of California:
At the last communication of this Grand Lodge, the War Service
Committee, appointed in 1942 by M. W. Frank M. Smith, Grand Master,
for the purpose of formulating a War Service Program, submitted its
recommendations, which were adopted by this Grand Lodge.
The Committee recommended a program of service and relief for our
members who are in the Armed Forces and their families; a program
of service relief for all Masons who have returned from foreign service
and are confined in the Army and Navy hospitals in this state; a dock
information and assistance program for all Masons returning from sea
duty or foreign service; and the stimulation. of Lodge meetings for the
benefit of Masons in the service.
Today, Brethren, we are pleased to present a progress report of what
has been accomplished this past year.
Service to Our Members in the Armed Forces and Their Families
With great satisfaction, this Committee has observed the efforts of
the Lodge Committees on behalf of their members in the Service and
their families. Considering the Lodges of the State as a whole, we are
of the opinion that the work has been well done. Many lodges have
had very active Committees, who have made special efforts to regularly
keep in touch with their members by writin~ cheerful letters, giving •
interesting items about families and friends and the local news. Some
districts have joined together in the preparation of special news bulletins,
which have been sent to all their service members and those districts
have had the satisfaction of receiving many interesting and instructive
letters in reply.
I mention cheerful letters, Brethren, because that is ·important. In
our hospitals today are many men, classified as "Mental Cases." They
are from over-seas, yet they have not been in actual combat. They
cracked up before they had a chance to get in combat. On reliable
authority, I have been told one of the main causes has been worry over
conditions at home. Recently, I met a British Colonel, just retired from
an Indian Regiment. He was astounded at some of the letters American
boys 'in India had received from home. They told all the difficulties on
the Home Front-of the hardships of food and gas rationing and the
shortages of meat-the severity of taxes. It is easy to understand the
effect of letters like this have, so make yours CHEERFUL, Brethren, to
build a high morale among our boys.
Calling on families, some of the Lodge committees have done an
excellent job. They have made it an item of first importance to call on

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

every family and to those residing at distant places they have written.
The letters received in reply showed the effort has been worth while.
These calls and letters have brought cheer and comfort to the families
and men alike. We are appreciative of this effort and feel that the Lodges
who have done this work, will be well rewarded.
The number of cases where relief has been needed among those
families has been relatively few. We are aware that some Lodges have
felt it a personal responsibility and have taken care of that relief without
calling on the War Relief Fund and we commend this action by those
Lodges. Where ever relief has been needed, it has been taken care of,
as the individual cases required. The Committee wants to take this opportunity to thank the various Boards of Relief throughout the State for
their splendid efforts and cooperation in this direction. They have done
a good job, Brethren, ·and are to be congratulated.
For one reason or another a few Lodges have not been as active
keeping in touch with their service members and their families as they
might have been, and to the Masters and Wardens of those Lodges who
are present, we earnestly appeal that you give serious thought over ways
and means to get started. It is not near as difficult as you might think.
One very ~uccessful method ·I heard about was the placing of a bulletin
board in the Lodge Room, with the names and latest addresses of their
members in service. During the course of the evening, the Master
called attention to the board and asked the members to make
point to
write to one member each week. Paper and pencil were handy so that
names could be written down. In another .Lodge, with a large percentage
aw~y, lists were prepared and distributed to the members in open meeting. Each list contained four names and members were requested to
write to one a week and report at the next Stated Meeting that he had
done so. Don't forget, Brethren, that you and your Lodge will be remembered by those men, for what you have done. They will judge the whole
Masonic fraternity's war effort, by what they personally have received
and you are missing a golden opportunity to really put brotherly love
and affection into action.

To encourage those who need ideas, a display has be~n arranged in
the Black Room showing_ a few of the posters that are being used. This
is by no means all of them. Especially outstanding has been San Diego,
Long Beach, Fresno and the East Bay districts.

570

a

Announcing Lodge Meetings in Camps, Cantonments and Hospitals
We have had many requests this past year to furnish entertainment.
Frankly, Brethren, neither this committee nor this Grand Lodge is in
the entertainment business. If we were to provide all the entertainment
r~quested our funds would not last very long.
There is, however, a place where we can provide entertainment th~t
is uniquely Masonic and that is in our Lodges. Encouraging the men m
uniform to attend Lodge Meetings and making it easy for him to attend
is an important part of our program. Many districts have joined together
in the preparation of posters, showing location of Lodges and scheduled
meetings and extending an invitation to all Masons to attend. They have
seen to it that these posters have been placed where the men can see
them. This has attracted many service men to Lodge meetings. Individual Lodges have also been active in this direction. Particularly has
this been true of small Lodges adjacent to large camps. These Lodges
have conferred many courtesy degrees which have been well attended by
service men . One such meeting came to my attention . Thirty civilians
including the officers were present, and over one hundred service men
were in attendance seeing the degree conferred on one of their buddies.
Many successful parties and special meetings have been arranged and
we commend all the Lodges for their work in this direction.

571

Dock Information and Assistance
This Section was started as a ~mall group to work on the docks in
San Francisco and it was the intention, as the need arose, this work
would be expanded and additional groups formed. During the year, a
man was selected to head this work and plans were underway for expansion in line with our original ideas.
At the request of military authorities, who desired fewer people on
the docks when men were returning, expansion of this part of our work
has been temporarily laid aside. We are closely cooperating with those
in charge and as soon as it is feasible, t_his work will again be undertaken.
Army and Navy Base Hospitals
Expansion of Army and Navy hospitals . in this State is almost
beyond comprehension. Not very long ago, we had two Army and
two Navy Base hospitals. There are now seven · for the Navy and eight
for the Army with additional units under consideration. Many of these
units .have expanded froip an original fifteen or eighteen hundred beds
to three thousand beds and one unit is in excess of thirty-five hundred
beds.
Besides the Base Hospitals there are many Station Hospitals, Camp
Hospitals and Convalescent Hospitals, which are assuming more importance all the time. As an example, take the hospital at Camp Callen,
near San Diego. It has been expanded to a 1,500-bed unit-five hundred
of these beds are held in reserve for overseas veterans.
During this past year, the Chairman of this Committee has personally
contacted the commanding officers of the fifteen Army and Navy Hospitals already referred to, from the Army's Tomey General Hospital at
Palm Springs to their new DeWitt Hospital at Auburn, and for the Navy
from San Diego to Mare Island.
The set up between the Army and Navy is quite different. Headquarters for the Navy is in San Francisco, while the Army is at Salt
Lake. We are able to sit in with the Admiral in Command for the Navy
and discuss our work, which has been very helpful in our contacts with
the Navy commanding officers. With the Army it has been a situation
of contacting the different commanding officers without having ;my official
. recognition of our program.
As stated in our last report, there are no visiting committees going
through the hospitals, but rather .to have a member of the staff who is
a Mason, appointed by the Commanding Officer as our represent~tive.
Through this representative, we are able to keep in touch with the Masons.
This Committee stands ready to do for those Brethren, those things
that are pecularly Masonic and which only his Masonic Brethren can do
for him, be it relief, personal service or contacts with his family and
Lodge. If it is deemed necessary by those in charge, that a Mason's wife
o~ mother should come to him and funds are not available for her to
make the trip, on recommendation of the Masonic Representative, we
will immediately see she is brought here, taken care of while here and
returned to her home.
We are • at present encouraging the local Lodges to arrange special
meetings and to get posters into the hospitals so that men who are

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

allowed to leave, will know about them. Where a man requests it,
local Lodges are asked to have a brother call on him. Recent directives
has indicated a definite tightening up on visitors and it is possible that
special passes will have to be arranged through our representative.
. Captain Jensen, Commanding Officer at Corona, called my attentio~
to the fact that where a man has been injured, the Navy will do everything possible to replace lost arms or legs with some kind of a wooden
arn~ or ~ wooden leg. But if his eyesight or hearing has been damaged
or 1mpa1red, they do not supply glasses or hearing aids. He felt that if
we could provide needed glasses or hearing aids for Masons who could
not afford to pay for them, we would be· doing an invaluable service to
those men, as it was his experience that once they were out of the
service, many of these men failed to provide for themselves and their
servi<;:e to themselves and to the Community was not what it should
have been.
This matter was refer;ed to the Grand Master, and I am happy to
report Brethren, that with his wholehearted approval we will pay for
g~asses and hearing aids, from the War Relief Fund, for Masons being
discharged who are unable . to provide them for themselves. A simple
plan has been worked out to put this into operation.
The Grand Secretary's Office is receiving about 1,200 letters ·a month
requesting information about men in the service. Many of these men
are in the hospitals and through our representative we have been able
to keep in touch with these men and to advise their home Lodges of
their condition or progress.
To give you an idea of how efficiently this works, in some instances,
a few days ago, the Grand Secretary received a wire from the Grand
Secretary of South Dakota, advising that one of their members, in the
Navy, had been seriously injured in San Francisco. Could he find out
anything about him? The Grand Secretary knew he would be taken to
either Oak Knoll or Treasure Island, so he called our representative at
Treasure Island first. He knew all about the man, and within ten minutes
from the time of the receiJ?t of the telegram, a reply was on its way
giving full information on the injured man.
'
While our activities so far have been confined to the Base Hospitals
we are aware of the need of expanding this portion of our work to include
Station Hospitals and Camp Hospitals where overseas veterans are assigned to. This is being undertaken at the present time.
We want to take this opportunity to thank the Inspectors, Masters
and Secretaries whom we have called on this year to handle special cases
that have arisen. Their response has been generous and their efforts are
greatly appreciated.
As already stated, Brethren, the -number of relief cases has been
comparatively few, however, as we have traveled over the State seeing
military installations from one end to the other and have noted the increasing installations of hospitals, we are convinced that the road ahead
will bring many instances when the Relief Fund will be sorely needed
and at that time, this Grand Lodge will be thankful for the foresight ·of
those Grand Masters who conceived the fund and to the members who
have so generously contributed to it.
I was deeply impressed, Brethren, by the words of Winston Churchill, in a recent speech in Boston--his words "the price of greatness is
responsibility." The Masonic Fraternity, Brethren, is great-great for
its precepts and its teachings-great for its leaders-and great for what
its members have contributed to the welfare of Man.

Yet that greatness, Brethren, has its responsibilities-responsibilities
which are on the shoulders of your leaders-of the Masters and Wardens
of the Lodges. and on every individual member.
Some of the great problems facing us today are the Post-War Problems. Your leaders are aware of their responsibility and are planning to
meet those problems.
We are confident that when those boys return home, California
Masonry will not have failed them.
Respectfully submitted,

572

573

MATTHEW MORTON, JR.,

General Chairman War
Service C ommiittee.

Adopted.
\V. Alexander Douglas Potts, Inspector of the 103rd District, presented the following report of the activities of our
Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands.

REPORT ON MASONRY IN THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS
Presented at the 94th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
California by Alexander Douglas Potts, Grand Standard Bearer..

Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethrer..:
One year ago it was my good fortune and privilege to address this
Grand Lodge on matters appertaining to Masonry in the Hawaiian
Islands. I am sure that all of you here in California are deeply concerned
and naturally interested over · the future of these eight Lodges located in
what was once known as the Paradise of the Pacific, and now more
appropriately termed the front line of defense of our Western Coast
line.
·
While it is true that .the restrictions placed on both Military and
Civilian personnel alike through the Martial Law, has in a great measure
created a complete change in our mode of living and particularly in the
hours of refreshment, this drastic change has materially effected the
smooth operations of our Masonic Lodges, yet, we are still able to carry
on our Masonic duties in as normal a manner as is humanly pos.sible.
While the effects of war have in many instances robbed many of
our communities of potential Masonic timber, it has acted just the opposite in other localities, and more especially in the Hawaiian Islands
today. I believe that it is safe to say without divulging any Military
secrets, that we have more Masons and prospective candidates for the
Degrees of Masonry assembled in the Hawaiian Islands than . we have
in any other part of our fighting fronts of equal area. This situation,
of course, is only natural, that our Government should take such necessary precautions as they have in utilizing this outpost of the Pacific as
a great arsenal of defense against our Western hemisphere, for it is
from this great reservoir of supplies that both men and material are
drawn to replace our ever expanding lines of attack in the South Pacific.
Those of you who have known Hawaii in the past as the Paradise
of the Pacific and have been privileged to visit it under normal conditions, .
admire its beautiful green hills and valleys, its abundance of flowers,
would, I am sure, find an entirely different kind of Hawaii today. Every

574

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

available space on that tiny Island is being utilized by Military installations and some oL the .most beautiful spots on the Island are now occupie<l by instruments of defense against our common enemy who so
treacherously attacked .u s at a time when they were talking peace terms.
It was then, and· only then, that the people of Hawaii were really faced
with the grim realities of war.
•
Little did any of us fully realize at the time, what the happenings of
that Sunday morning would mean to the future of .these Islands and
more particularly to the easy way of living of the people of these
Islands. Tremendous . changes have been made not only in our mode of
living but in the daily operations of our businesses. No one at the time
folly realized, prior · to· the December 7th attack, the hardships which the
war would place upon us. I, for one, had no conception of what effect it
would have on our Lodges.
·
I am sure that many of you will recall my remarks last year, relative
to our Black-out restrictions and the operation of our businesses, which
governed by Martial law, placed on us certain· restricted hours for opening
our places of business and the hours that we close, this, of course, being
made mandatory in order to clear everyone off the streets by. a certain
hour. While there have been some changes made in Black-out restrictions and an attempt on the part of the Military authorities to return
to the civil government .many Junctions of government not directly
effecting the war effort, it has in no way improved our situation so far
as the Masonic Lodges are coricern~d; whereby we are- enabled to hold our
meetings in the evenings. Last year, and more particularly during the
latter part of the year, we were confronted wi~h a situation never heretofore witnessed in the Hawaiian Islands even under peace time conditions. Many of these Lodges were receiving 40 to 50 applications for
the degrees of Masonry at each stated meeting. This condition would
lead one to believe that it was brought about by the unusually large
number of men being poured into the Hawaiian Islands. This, of course,
is not entirely true. We found among this large number of applications
the names of men who had lived practically all their lives in the Hawaiian
Islands, yet under peace times they never thought of applying for the
degrees of Masonry and now that the very existence of the Islands hung
in balance, their thoughts turned to Masonry. One would be prompted
to believe that this was brought about by the fact that these men were
either just plain joiners or were curiosity seekers, however, in going
over these applications I think you will find that this is not the case. I
am convinced that the grim realities of war brought them face to fa.c e
with something they felt they needed and that the Masonic Fraternity
was the place they could find the genuine fellowship so essential during
these times.
The question of receiving applications and the conferring of degrees
has not been the only problems that we have been confronted with
during the past year. Let us view the records of some of these Lodges,
and in so doing I refer more particularly to the Lodges in the 103td
District, not because this happens to be my District, but because these
Lodges are all located in and around Honolulu which is the hub of
activities and can be considered the distribution center for the entire
Hawaiian Area. It this District we have five Lodges, four of which
are all within close proximity of each other and the other Lodge, namely,
Schofield, is some thirty miles from Honolulu.
Due to the conjested conditions in and around Honolulu, and the
lack of proper recreational facilities, which was and still is today one of
our major problems, we found a condition existing especially among the

service men, which was beyond the control of the Authorities to cope
with. This is evidenced by the fact that it is a common sight to s.ee
lines two blocks long, mostly service men, on furlough trying to get into
a ·picture show, saloon or places of amusement where they could pe
privileged to sit down and rest for awhile, write letters, play a game of
cards and be away from the general grind of the life of a soldier. Many
complaints came to us from various sources that there was a large
number of Masons in the Armed Forces who were unable to visit a
Masonic Lodge during the time the Lodges were able to hold meetings
and that some sort of Masonic contact was necessary, and a place supplied
where these Masons could go and enjoy the atmosphere of a Masonic
Lodge. Here was a condition that the Masters of the Lodges especially
around Honolulu felt should be taken care of in a manner comparable to
the conditions that we were faced with and with the limited time we had
on hand. Several meetings were held and it was agreed that the proposition of asking the 0. C. D. who had occupied the ground floor of our
Temple to seek other quarters and that the space occupied by them be
put to use as a Masonic Service Bureau for the benefit of Masons in the
Armed Forces and defense workers. At considerable effort and expense
on the part of the Officers of these Lodges, this ground floor was redecorated and given a homelike atmosphere. The Eastern Star Chapters,
of which there are four, offered their services and together a committee
was formed and worked out plans whereby writing desks, card tables,
game tables, such as table tennis, were secured. The Eastern Star
Chapter furnished two hostesses who are · on duty six days of the week
to serve the bbys who drop in with hot coffee, cold drinks and supply
them. with all the ~riting material they want so that a boy away from
home can sit down and write his letters in a homelike surrounding and
get his mind off the every day grind of his military duties. This is our
small contribution in helping to support the morale of our fighting forces
· in the outpost of the Pacific.

575

Elections and Installations
Whl'le those '" !n our Government · are charged with the responsibility of replllcements and supplies, we too have had our problems, which
again all ties in with ·the . black-out restrictions. We have attempted to hold
such meetings as installations, etc., as joint affairs. Last December after
all the officers of the four Lodges had been elected and plans put into
action for a joint installation, thereby conserving time for both the officers
and members, we were confronted with a situation in Pearl Harbor Lodge
where the W. M. elect had been transferred to another job which rendered
it impossible to hold the position of W. M. for the year. This necessitated a change in our plans and special dispensation had to be given for
a special election. Taking into consideration that the membership of
this Lodge is composed almost in its entirety of brethren who are engaged with the furthering of the war effort by being connected either
with the armed services or employed at naval establishments,. it was a
difficult problem to secure a Master, who could put his time to the
position of that office. The Lodge elected one of its old Past Masters
and we felt that our problem so far as officers were concerned was taken
care of.
Immediately following the installation of officers it was brought to
our attention that the present owners of the building that Pearl Harbor
Lodge was renting from "as tennants at will" decided to increase the
revenue of their building and the ground floor was rented to a group
who had applied for and secured a liquor license and the place was to be

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

turned into a saloon. This, of course, made it undesirable as a proper
place to hold Lodge meetings especially during the daytime when the
members had to enter the Lodge room through the saloon, and the
members were forced to seek another meeting place. Through the kindness of the Trustees of the Oddfellows Temple, Pearl Harbor Lodge
was given permission to rent their Lodge room. I examined the building
and with but few minor changes I approved of its use as a proper place
to hold Masonic meetings, hence special dispensation was granted Pearl
Harbor Lodge to change its place of meeting and is now housed in the
Odd Fellows Temple for the duration.

the past year it has not to any great extent benefited the Lodges so far
as meetings are concerned. We are allowed what is known as a dimout, between the hours of 7:1.5 p. m. and 10:00 p. m. with the proviso
however, that no lights can be shown from any window or opening that
is exposed to the ocean. At the hour of 10 :00 p. m. all persons military
and civilian alike must be off the streets. While this dimout has its
advantages so far as it enables some of the people who are fortunate
enough to have windows or doors not facing the ocean some relief
from the hot weather has been a comfort to them. Those of you having
been to Hawaii know that practically all windows in any desirable part
of the houses, face the ocean. On the other hand can you imagine anyone
in Honolulu who would be foolish enough to build a home that did not
command an ocean view of some sort?
While we have had our hardships to contend with in Hawaii due to
the black-out restrictions and so-called Martial Law "a blessing in disguise" we should not overlook the fact that high tribute should be paid
to our Military Governor and members of his staff, many of them members of our craft, for their cooperation and the assistance that they have
extended to us in an endeavor to make living conditions as pleasant as
possible ever keeping in mind that the safety and security of these Islands
depends to a great measure of their good judgment and discretion in all
matters and the welfare and protection of our, businesses. To General
Delos C. Emmons, whom all of you know, and his successor General
Richardson, Jr., a member of our craft, I say on behalf of the fraternity
in the Hawaiian Islands that they have done a splendid job and we are
behind them 100 per cent. They have established for themselves an
enviable record· which shall go down in history when the final chapter
of this great conflict is written.
While we have gained both financially and numerjcally during the
past year we also have had our losses . to contend with, and seldom do
we attend a stated meeting of some Lodge but we ·he.ar these words so
commonly used these days "Missing in Action" to the memory of these
brave men who gave their lives for what Masonry stands for today.

576

In addition to all these handicaps which this Lodge was confronted
with, it also had something like 200 applications for the Degrees of
Masonry on hand and many of them had been elected during the preceding year. While it is true that Pearl Harbor Lodge was the one
Lodge in the Territory that had such problems to contend with the
others had difficulties such as demands being made upori them for degree
work, courtesy degrees and the possibility of being able to secure a
sufficient number of officers to fill the chairs during a degree meeting,
which as I have already pointed out were all held during the daytime
when it was necessary for these officers to take time off from their work'
resulting in deductions in pay and criticism from some of their superiors.
Herewith is a brief summary of the accomplishments of these Lodges
during the past year.
Degrees
Applications
Conferred MemberContributions
1
2
ship
Homes
W.R.
R. E. R.
3
Hawaiian ................ 83
le Progres ............ 154
Honolulu ................ 25
Schofield ................ 38
Pearl Harbor ..... .172
472

42 31
32 27
60
113 18 69
18
19
6
16
30
8
11 I 8
137 28 140 114

25
58
12
8
111

366 $ 825.00
433
1,125.75
223
491.00
213
207.50
344
671.00

$ 495.50
1,126.03
141.00
54.50
314.00

341

214

1,569 $3,320.25

$2,131.03

91

268

227

From the foregoing statement it will be noted that the five Lodges,
"of which we are only able to secure up to minute data," have handled
472 applications, conferred a combined total of 709 degrees of Masonry,
increased their membership from 1,383 to 1,569 all of which had to be
accomplished by the officers of these Lodges during daytime meetings.
We should not overlook the fact that high tribute should be paid to
these 1,569 members who generously donated to these two great funds,
which all of us should be proud to participate in, the total sum of $5,451.28, an example, my brethren, worthy of emulation. While I have only
given you the figures of the 103rd District, I have not overlooked the
splendid work that is being done by the brethren in the 102nd District.
They are probably not so fortunate in securing candidates as we are in
the 103rd District, however, during the past year I have issued in the
name of our Most Worshipfui Grand Master special dispensations to the
Lodges in that District to receive and act upon the applications ·of
candidates for the ·Degrees of Masonry who lack the necessary residential
qualifications. A great deal of credit is due to Worshipful Brother
Charles A. Shepherd, Inspector of the 102nd District, under whose leadership the Lodges in that district have functioned and taken care of our
Masonic Brethren who are stationed there.
While there has been some relaxing of the black-out restriction during

577

Somewhere out beyond the distant blue horizon,
Cradled deep within the bosom of a sapphire sea,
They have found their final resting place
Over which we can but gently strew the fragrant
flowers of love and memory.
They shall not be alone or unguarded as they sleep
Through the golden sunlit days and the silen starlit nights
'
which build Eternity,
As the soft, warm waters which form their blanket
Will reflect the soft flow of the Southern Cross
As it hangs in the Southern sky like a bejeweled pendant,
The Eternal symbol of ONE, who like they, gave up his life
That all the peoples of the world might be free.
Post-War Masonry
I am sure that many of you are familiar with the oft repeated term
appearing in our local papers concerning post-war conditions in this
country after the successful conclusion of the present confiict. I sometimes wonder if any thought has been given to post-war Masonry. When
we look at the many applications which are constantly pouring into our
Lodges, one sometimes wonders if these members who are now applying
for the Degrees of Masonry will continue in good standing, say ten years

578

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

from now. Our Grand Master has often repeated that we cannot make
Masons, we can only confer the degrees. I have always felt that too
muoh. care could not be exercised' over the reception of petitions when they
are :pfaced in the hands of the investigating committee and am convinced
that it is on this basis, the future membership of our Lodges ·should be
detet-mined, not after the .· candidate has been elected and received for
degrees.
Masonic War Relief
While :it is · gratifying to note that during the past year most of our
Lodges have realized the necessity of maintaining the Masonic War
Relief Fund and while it is true that no great demand may be placed upon
us during the present time, I am sure that all of you will agree with me ·
that when this conflict is over, our country is going to be faced with
conditions never · recorded in history.
.
We know that statements have been made by certain heads of our
government that the returning soldier will be given jobs, an opportunity
to return to universities and finish their education. But I note that there
is no mention made of where the funds are coming from to take care
of these men. I should think that all of us as Masons fully realize that
this tremendous program, which certain individuals in our government,
have taken upon themselves in the form of promises to the returning veterans
have made no mention of who was going to pay· for it. While we have
no intentions of making any reflection on any particular individual, such
a promise as has been made would be comparable to a statement made
by our present Grand Master from the ·floor of this Grand Lodge that if
you would reelect him to the office he now holds, he would promise to
reduce the dues in our constituent Lodges to 50 per cent of what they
now are.
Much has been said and credit given to young men and women of
this country who have so cheerfully and voluntarily offered their services
in the' defense of our liberties. I feel, however, that I cannot close these
remarks without paying some tribute to the fathers, mothers, wives,
brothers and sisters of these young men and women, who, keeping the
home fires burning, are still shouldering their share of responsibilities on
the home fronts. To many of our brethren who have knelt at the altar
of Masonry with us in the past and who have answered . the .suNeme sacrifice,
let us hope that the buildings of their Masonry and the · thought that all
is well with them now will soften the grief of their beloved ones at home
and that the knowledge of their loved one's high ability and sterling worth
will inspire the future generation to carry the banner of loyalty and virtue
high up the ramparts their fathers fearlessly scaled.

Tears! Tears! Tears!
Like dews upon the leaf
That bursts at last-from out the years
The blossom of a trust appears
That blooms above the grief;
And mother, brother, wife and child
Will see it and be reconciled.

Dead! Dead! Dead!
We thought him ours alone;
And were so .proud to see him tread
The rounds of fame, and lift his head
Where sunlight ever shone;
But riow our aching eyes are dim
We look through tears in vain for him.
Name! Name! Name!
It was his diadem
Nor ever tarnish-taint of shame
Could dim its lustre-like a flame
Reflected in a gem
He wears it blazing on his brow
Within the courts of Heaven now.

579

Most Worshipful Grand Master, I want to take this opportunity to
bring to you and through you to every Mason in California, felicitations
and best wishes of their brethren in the Hawaiian Islands. and to you,
Most Worshipful sir, I have a special message. For many years your
brethren in the Hawaiian Islands have known you as Les Wood, -they
have admired your work, your kind · counsel and advice which has been
so freely given all, through these years and it has been their hope that
when you left the High Honor which you now hold in this Grand J urisdiction, it would be their privilege to personally congratulate you on your
splendid achievement as Grand Master of the. Grand Jurisdiction. The
results of war have made it impossible for you to make this visitation
and so from the brethren of the Hawaiian Islands, I want to take this
opportunity of bringing to you, on their behalf, this pure white silk lei
and they have ·asked me to extend to you and Mrs. Wood, an invitation to
visit them in the future when travel conditions will permit. They want to
see and hear from one of their war-time Past Grand Masters.
Respectfully submitted,
ALEXANDER DOUGLAS

Po#;.

Adopted.

CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE COMMITTEE
ANNUAL REPORT
To the Most Worshipf1ll Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand .Lodge of
the . •T11risdiction of California:

Y c:iur Committee on
follows:

Constitution

Month

Observance reports

as

The committee originally was appointed for the purpose of promoting the observance of Constitution Day in our Lodges during the month
of September. With the' advent of the war, its functions were extended
to include the promotion of war activities pursuant to the order of the
Grand Master, including, for example, such objects as the purchase of
government bonds, contributions to the bl,ood bank, Red Cross and other
activities conducive to the successful prosecution of the war and the
alleviation of suffering in connection with it. During the war the attention
of the committee necessarily has been given primarily to war efforts.
On the other hand, the committee has not overlooked the importance
of the ultimate restoration of the normal rights of American citizens as
defined in the . Constitution. In some respects, the restoration of these
rights: follo'\Ving abnormal war conditions is a subject matter which is
more important for the consideration of Masonry than the prosecution
of the war itself. Sooner or later the war will end. There are many
organizations contributing to its prosecution. The maintenance of personal
rights and liberties exemplified in the Constitution are the result of cen-

581

· PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

turies of effort and sacrifice; if those privileges are not maintained through
centuries to come, the war, even if successful, will have been fought fn
vain.

It is impossible for any Lodge to obtain complete information. T.he remammg statistics are relatively accurate, excep.t for the assumption of
corresponding ·activity on the part of non-reporting Lodges.
In . any event, it is obvious that substantial results have been obtained
at a relatively small investment by Grand Lodge.
The results are due to the activity of both the Northern and the
Southern membership of the committee. The chairman cannot pay too
high tribute to these men, and to the officers and members of the Lod!§~S
throughout the jurisdiction who have so loyally suppo:ted ~he ;wa~ activities of our country, and the desire to perpetuate American mshtuhons.

580

The results throughout the Lodges of this jurisdiction have been substantial; the expenses incurred have been nominal. The total expenses
of the committee, including printing, postage and other items, have been
less than $300.00 ~or the year.
Reports
Reports have been received from 212 Lodges of a total .of 581, being
approximately 40 per cent. The statistics are taken. from these reports
from less than half the Lodges. It is a reasonable assumption that the
accomplishments for an average of the Lodges in the State should be
increased by approximately 60 per cent.
In some instances the i.-Uggestion has been made that the request
for reports should have been issued at an earlier date. The difficulty
which the committee encountered in issuing an earlier request is that
the observance of Constitution month occurs throughout the month of
September, and it was desired to bring the reports of all activities as
nearly as possible to the date of this communication of Grand Lodge.
Statistics
One hundred and seventy-seven meetings were held for the observance
of Constitution month; fifty open meetings, with an attendance of 4,214;
127 closed meetings, with an attendance of 6,901. Applying the above
mentioned percentage to Lodges which have not yet reported, the assumption is that a total of approximately 440 meetings were held, with
an attendance at open meetings of over 10,000, and an attendance at
closed meetings of over 17,000.
The total number of war activities meetings reported is approximately
the same, being 174 meetings held, with an attendance of 5,000 at public
meetings, and an attendance of 6,700 at closed meetings. If these figures
are increased by 60 per cent, they will roughly correspond to the estimated totals above listed for meetings for the observance of Constitution
Month.
Government bonds held by reporting Lodges on September I, 1942,
aggregated $655,000, and on September 1, 1943, the bond holdings aggregated $934,000, or an increase of $279,000. Applying the above percentage, this indicates an increase of bond holdings throughout the jurisdiction of approximately $700,000.
During the year there has been an increase in Lodge attendance in
73 Lodges, and a decreased attendance in 54 Lodges.
Initiations have increased in 167 Lodges, and have decreased in seven
Lodges.
These computations of Lodge attendance and initiations must be respectively increased by 60 per cent, as above indicated.
Reports show 6,500 members engaged in civilian war activities, and
2,000 members who have contributed to the· blood bank. Using the same
percentage, this indicates that of the Lodge membership in this jurisdiction, over 16,000 are engaged in civilian war activities, and 5,000 h4ve
contributed to the blood bank.
Necessarily figures as to war activities and contributions to the blood
bank are inadequate even as applied to the Lodges which have reported.

The report of this committee refers only to Lodges and Lodge members as such, but cannot include the personal efforts of the ~reth~e? . of
the jurisdiction which do not come within the scope of Masonic act1v1t1es.
For example, according to our last repo~ts, ove: 8,900. members of our
Lodges are in military service. Another illustration which deserves note
is that the Inspector for the Hawaiian Islands reports that over 80 per cent
of the membership are engaged either in defense "'.or~, or are ~embers
of the military forces. He apologizes for the om1ss10n of detailed attempts by the Island Lodges to observe Constitution month; the apology
was unnecessary.
Respectfully submitted,
WESLEY

w. :KERGAN,

A. c. WoLLENBERG,
S. F. WoRswrcK,
JAMES

T. FRASER,
Northern Committee.

LEO E. ANDERSON,
LEE T. MULLEN,
JOHN T. MARTIN,
FRED P. RouLLARD,
ROBERT

Southern Committee.
B. GAYLORD.
General Chairman.

This concludes the report of the committee. I wish to add a few ~~rds
of personal comment which, contrary to my cust~m, I have reduced to wntm~,
to avoid possibility of mis-quotation. The chairman assumes full res~o?s1bility of the contents and language of the report. Unfortunately, con?1.tt?ns
are such that it was impractical to submit the report, ~hether for cn~1c1sm
or approval, to the individual members of the committee. !he chairman
personally appreciates the fact that the members o.f the comm1tt~e consented
that he draft a report to which their names are signed, ~nd which they. h~d
no opportunity to check. My own resignation as its cha1;man. alr~ady is. m
the hands of the incoming Grand Master, so far as a resignation 1s possible
for an appointment which survives only from year to year.
This committee has conducted Observance of C~n~~it~tion Month, supplemented by promotion of war activities, from the 1mtlat1on of these effo!ts
on the part of Grand Lodge. I have no apology to make for the results wh1.ch
have been accomplished, and I think I safely may say th.at the other mem~rs
of the committee join in that statement. Its record m the reports. which
itself, and the report wh1c~ has
h ave been made to Grand Lodge speaks. for
I f
.
t
just been presented is substantially typ1ca o prior repor s.
Nor have we any apology to offer for the c?mmittee expenses. We have
not expended for administration a sum approximately equal to the amounts

582

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

which indirectly have been expended through our efforts. The Finance Committee budgeted for us last year $500.00; you will note from the report
·which has been read that we expended less than $300.00. The statistics in
the various reports, except as they are specifically defined as estimates, have
been compiled· by the Grand Secretary's office, and we assume that they are
reliable.
·
We trust that the revised organization of the work of Grand Lodge
for Constitution Month and war activities and post war activities, may
be worthy of the personnel of the Masons of this jurisdiction.
·
I hand a copy· of this oral statement to the Grand Secretary, so that
it may be incorporated in the record of proceedings of this communication
if the Grand Master so permits.
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
General Chairman.

In Appreciation

Adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES
I

To the Most Worshipfi'l Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the fifty··first annual report, for the year ending July 31, 1943, together
with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes, and the financial
reports of. the Secretary and Treasurer.
The Board of Trustees met on October 16, 1942, after the adjournment
of Grand Lodge with the following members present:
Charles M. Woilenberg (term expires 1946).
James B. Gist ·(term expires 1943).
Samuel E. Burke (term expires 1944).
Chas:· Albert Adams (term expires 1945).
Claude H. Morrison, Deputy Grand Master.
Gilbert C. DeForest, Senior Grand Warden.
Lawrence C. Kelley, Junior Grand Warden.
The reappointment of Past Grand Master, Charles M. Wollenberg, to
the Board of Trustees for a four-year term commencing October 16, 1942,
and the election of Claude H. Morrison, Deputy Grand Master; Gilbert
C. ·DeForest, Senior Grand Warden; Lawrence C. Kelley, Junior Grand
Warden, were formally reported to the board.
The board then organized for the ensuing year by electing the following officers:
Charles M. Wollenberg,, president.
James B. Gist, vice president.
By virtue of his reelection as Treasurer of th~ Grand Lodge, F. & A.
M. of California, William P. Filmer remained Treasurer of the Masonic
·Homes of California; until his death November 22, 1942, ·and was succeeded by Francis V. Keesling as of that date.
By virtue of· his reelection as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge,
· F; & A. M. of California, Lloyd E. Wilson remains Secretary of the
. Masonic Homes of California.

583

On November 22, 1942, scarcely more than a month after the close
·Of Grand Lodge the Board of Trustees suffered a great loss in the passing
of Most 'Vorshipful William P. Filmer, Grand Treasurer, who. since his
election to that office on October 17, 1913, had served as the Treasurer
of the Masonic Homes.
The Homes have experienced their greatest growth duri:ng these years
both in properties and in funds, and the sound financial condition which
we enjoy today is largely attributable to the great interest which Brother
Filmer took in the conduct of our financial affairs. Th.e ability which
Brother Filmer brought to the consideration of our problems helped lift
the entire standard of the Board and we shall never be able. adequately
to express our appreciation of the splendid service which he rendered.
Commendation
Under the superv1s10n of our able Superintendents, Brother Eubanks
at Decoto, and Brother Downen at Covina, our Homes have met the
various problems that arise in institutions such as these. At all times in
homes for the aged there are some disgruntled members of the family
and small grievances are magnified. With little complaint our families
have adjusted themselves to the food restrictions entailed by War Time
shortages and regulations, and both the aged at Decoto and the children
at Covina have responded in meeting the labor shortage.
Population
At Decoto we find our population has decreased. This is largely due
to the fact that a number of our aged have secured war time work, and
applications for admission have decreased due to the fact that those who
might have applied are now engaged in war activities. With higher
costs of food, clothing and, in fact, everything that goes for comfort and
health, the increase of the State pension to $50.00 is not sufficient to enable an aged person to live in comfort unless there are immediate relatives who can afford shelter and care, and with the return to normal
conditions we anticipate a large increase in the population of the Decoto
Home.
·
At Covina our population shows a decline from 99 children as reported
one year ago to 81 today. This is reflecte!I by a reduction in operating
costs of 11.3 per cent.
The increased demands made upon us for child care following the
last World War will in all probability be repeated in the post war
period ahead and i~ such proves to be the case, our Home at Co'vina will
be well prepared to meet the situation.
Number of Residents as of August 31, 1?43

Decato Home:
Men
Residents, Sei:itember 1, 1942.............................. .':.:: .. :.... 155
Admitted ................................ ;.... :......................................... 12
Died or wjtl;idrawn ...,.·:......... ,.... :, .......... ~...........,; ...... ,...... 36
Residents; August 31, 1943.,............... ;.....:."·....! .............,. 131

Women
150
19
17
152

Total
305
31
53
283

Covina Home:
Boys
Residents, September 1, 1942..•:..•. :............:c...•. :·•. :•... ;..... 58
Departed ..................... ,.................................................. '·'··· 16
Residents, August 31, 1943 ............................................ 51

Girls
37
15
31

Total
95
31
82

584

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Per Capita Cost

Five have given their lives in their country's service: Walter Anderson
(Apollo Lodge No. 396) U. S. Navy; Walter Smith (Ocean Park Lodge
No. 369) U . S. Navy; Second Lieutenant Melvin R. Rouch (Travvei: Lodge
No. 294) U. S. Army, killed piloting a plane in Africa; Aviation Cadet
Ralph F. Peterson (Victorville Lodge No. 634) U. S. Army killed in
trai~ing ~t Williams Field, Arizona; First Lieutenant Lawrenc~ S. Myers
(Umvers1ty Lodge No. 394) U. S. Army, killed in action in the Southwest
Pacific.

Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal Year
Ending July 31, 1943

Decato Home, 1943:
Cost of maintenance .............................................·........................ ."........$124,02&41
Average number of residents .............................................................. 300
Average operating cost per month .................................................... 10,335.73
Average cost per day .................................................., ...,........................
339.80
Average cost per resident per ye·a r ....................................................
413.43
Average cost per resident per month ................................................
34.45
Average cost per resident per day ....:.................................................
1.13
Average number of employees ..............................................................
52
Covina Home, 1943;
Cost of maintenance ......................................................................,..........$ 84,719.08
Average number of residents ................................................................ ·
Average operating cost per month ·················'··································
Average cost per day ..............................................................................
Average cost per child per year ..........................................................
Average cost per child per month ....................................................
Average cost per child per day ..........................................................
Average number of employees ··············································;·············

92
7,059.92
232.12
920.86
76.74
2.52
29

The maintenance cost includes general maintenance, hospital, farm,
laundry, payroll and general expense, less direct revenue, farm produce
consumed and sundry revenues.
Summer Camp
The Masonic Homes has for years maintained a summer camp for our
children on Balboa Island in Newport Bay. For obvious reasons, the
camp has not been opened since Pearl Harbor.
This year we allowed the use of part of the buildings at Camp Tucker,
Balboa, to the Marine Division of the Girl Scouts of Ame~ica for the
summer. The leadership of this group consisted of responsible people;
their occupancy of the camp was beneficial rather than otherwise, and it
brought about the cleaning up and putting in order that part of the
premises which they are using.
We have leased four of the dormitory buildings at the camp to the
Newport Beach Grammar School for the duration of the war. They are
paying $50.00 a month· rental, plus any extra charges which the Homes
may sustain by reason of their occupancy.
Alumni in the Armed Forces
One hundred twenty-six alumni of the Covina Home are in the Armed
Forces of the United States.
Four of our young women graduates are in the Armed Forces:
Georgiana Davis, Tujunga Lodge No. 592, left the Home in 1935 and is
a private in the Women's Army Corps. Rosetta Lewin," Los Angeles
Lodge No. 42, left the Home in 1938, and Marian Hass, San Francisco
Lodge No. 360, who left in 1940, are both privates in the U. S. Marines.
Helen Schulte, Hermann Lodge No. 127, left the Home in 1936, is a
Second Lieutenant in the U. S. Army Nursing Corps and is at present
on . foreign service.

585

Twenty of the Masonic Home Alumni have received commissions as
of!icers:. one Colonel, one Lieutenant-Commander, one Captain, eight
First Lieutenants, seven Second Lieutenants, and two Ensigns. These
commissioned officers constitute 16 per cent of their whole number
whereas in the armed services generally the proportion of commissioned
officers is only 7 per cent; in other words our alumni have more than
twice as many commissioned officers as might be normally expected.
this st:iking fact we find evidence that the mode of life, training and
influence m the Home, while in no wise military, do tend to develop
qualities of initiative and leadership.

!n

Of the many· cases that have come to our attention of boys who brought
honor to the Home in the service of their country, we will recite several
for your information:
·
First Lieutenant Clarence Boyer (Alhambra Lodge No. 322) U. S.
Army Air Corps : We have received information that Lieutenant Boyer
has piloted one of the Spitfires that escorted large formations of Fortresses
in their devastating bombing of the German Naval Base at Kiel. These
Spitfires were praised for their aid by Colonel Herbert T . Thatcher,
Bomber Group Commander.
Boyer graduated from the flying school at Lake Charles Louisiana
in August, _1942, and was rai9Cd to the rank of First Lieutenant' in January'.
1943. He left for England in May of this year.
Harold Lounsbury (Yosemite Lodge No. 99) Machinist's Mate, 2/c,
U. S .. Navy: Saw combat service in the Pacific Ocean during 1942. At
one time was at sea 72 days without sighting land. Was in the Stewart
Island action, also battles of Midway and Coral Sea and was on the
Hornet when it was sunk.
·
Excerpts from Letters
James E . Rowland, Seaman, 2/c, U. S. Navy, training at University
of Chicago, writes: "I have never thanked you for what you did ·for
me while I was in the Home. I never realized then how lucky I was.
Tell the boys and girls that they are the luckiest kids on earth. They
may not think so now, but I never thought so either-until I left the
Home. I was taught one of the most important things I know, and that
was to respect my elders. . . . I want to thank you for the, shall I say,
'basic training' I received at the Home. I believe I owe most of my
success in the Navy to the faculty of the. Home."
Cadet J, D . Colvin (Bell Lodge- No. 483) U. S. Navy Pre-Flight
School, Del Monte, Calif., writes: "During my time here my body has
gone through some things I never thought possible before. But I know
now! I can say that I have thanked the Home a million times for all
you did to help me, even though we were probably just a little bit backward when it came to accepting your administration. Getting along with
other men is one of the main factors that help a fellow so much in
accepting. the discipline of the caliber we get here, (and like it)."

586

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.Alfred Chetham (Sequoia Lodge No. 349), who left the Home ten
years ago, writes from the Advanced Flying School, La Junta, Colorado.
After recounting the good times he. had while a boy at the Home, and
his subsequent life after leaving it, he says that he is getting Masonic
Degrees from San Francisco Lodge No. 360, and adds: "The main
reason I wanted to join the Masons is that they were directly responsible
for the happiest years of my life, excepting the time in which I have been
married. . . . I now know that it was those years at the Home which
formed my life. I want to pass on to someone else the chances for
character-building, education and happiness which were so generously
given to me, even though I did not realize it at the time."
Ben Helwig
One more alumnus of the Home should be mentioned, not in a uniform
of the Armed Forces but working for the war in jeans and jumper.
A number of years ago Ben Helwig, a ward of Orange Grove· Lodge
No. 293, was playing a game at the Home in which a crooked stick was
knocked in the air. Through mischance he was hit in the eye, infection
set in, and although the best physicians available were consulted lie lost
the sight of both eyes. He was sent to the Blind School at Berkeley,
spending his vacations at the Home each year. On graduation a "Seeing
Eye" dog was provided and, having been trained as a wood worker and
mechanic, he was provided with an electrically driven saw, planer and
lathe which were installed in the rear of his mother's home.
After Pearl Harbor; he endeavored to get employment in the Air
Plane Industry and did succeed in securing a job wherein he became an
inspector aluminum castings. Through sensitiveness of his hands and
hearing he was able to detect flaws. This reached the- newspapers, and
recently Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer produced a film in which he was the
hero, the name of it being "Seeing Hands." If any of you have seen it we
know. you would be interested in knowing that the hero of this picture
was one of our boys. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer set aside part of the income
from this film for the purpose of sending Ben to New York to consult
the best oculists in the country. A few weeks ago Superintendent Downen
received a letter from Ben in which he stated that after examinations it
had been determined that the restoration of his sight was hopeless. He
closed his letter by saying: "I am having a grand time seeing New
York." I am sure you all join me in saying we are proud of Ben. In
spite of his handicap, he has adjusted himself to life and is a useful
citizen doing his bit for his country.
Byron Athan
In 1936, Byron D . Athan, Petaluma Lodge No. 180, left the Covina
Home. On his arrival in San Francisco, he was employed for a short
time in the office of ·the Grand Secretary. He then, with the assistance
of his mother, entered college with the hope of becoming a lawyer. In
1941, he called on the reader of this report asking for advice. He was a
member of the National Guard with the rank of Second Lieutenant. The
Guard was being called into Federal Service. Inasmuch as he was attending law school, he had an opportunity to withdraw. After some discussion
he desired to follow his inclination in what he conceived to be a patriotic
duty and remained with the Guard.
In January, of this year, he was promoted to First Lieutenant. Celebrating that promotion his wife called on me, presenting a $100 War Bond,

58?

~gift ~ro~ Byron to b~ used for the benefit of the first boy or girl of the
asomc

bY

ome who wished to follow the legal profession.

Wth.e a~ef all proud of Byron and appreciate the thoughtfulness shown
IS g1 t.
Alumni in the Armed Forces

Left
Covina

Name

Lodge

Rank or Rating

Branch of Service

1930
1931
*1931
1931
1936

Aby, Robert, .San Jose No. 10, Sergeant, U. S. Army.
Aderson, Alvm, Apollo No. 396, First Lieutenant, U. s '. Army
An~erson, Walter, Apollo No. 396, Electrician Mate, 2/c, U. s. N.
Arrington, James, Needles No. 326, Second Lieutenant U S Ar
Athan, Byron D., Petaluma No. 180• First Lieutenant', u·.s'
my.
. A rmy.
1941 Bach, Vernon, Roses Bar No. 89 Pfc U S A
K
'
' . . rmy.
1942 Bk
a er, enneth, West Lake No. 392 A S U S N R
1939 B~ker, Philip, West Lake No. 392, Sec~nd1 Li~ut.,
Marines.
1941 B1r?baum, Arthur, Menorah No. 623, U. S. Marines.
1936 Bla~r, Arthur, Ma1:1i No. 472, Pilot, U. S. Army Air Corps.
1936 Bla~r, James, Mam N.o. 472, P ilot, U. S. Army Air Corps.
1936 Blair, Theodore, Mam No. 472 Pilot U S Army A' c
·
'
' · ·
ir orps
1931 B oast, A lvm,
Roseville No. 222 Storekeeper 1/c U S Na·
1940 Bounds, Edward, Fullerton No.' 339 PhM J / c {;
vy.
1941 Bowen, Alvin, Arlington No. 414 s;aman '11c
avy.
1941 Bowen, Charles, Arlington No. 414 Aviation 'cadet. uav§' A
1938 B?yer, Clarence C., Alhambra No. 1322 First L ieut'
;my.
Air Corps.
'
'
:• · · rmy
1918 Brown, Eugene, Pentalpha No. 202, U. S. Navy.
1916 Brown, N~v.:ell, Wilmington No. 198, Sergeant, U. S. Army.
1942 Brown, W ilham, Los Angeles No. 42, Pfc., U. S. Army.
1914 .Bundy, John Harold, Santa Ana 241, Colonel, U. S. Army.
1940 Burgen, Fred, Alhambra No. 322, Corporal, U. S. Army.
1940 Burns, Roland T., Hollenbeck No. 319, A. R. M., u. s. Navy.
1937 Carroll, Charles, Pentalpha No. 202 Aviation Cadet U S A
· R o bert,· Redwood City No.' 168 Corporal •U · S · A rmy·
1933 Ch apm,
1931 Chapin, William, Redwood City No. 1 168, Chief Pett~ ~~·er
U. S. Navy.
'
1933 Che~ham, Alfred H., Sequoia No. 349, Private, U. S. Army.
1942 Colh?s, Eugene, Solano No. 229, Seaman, 1/c, U. S. Navy.
1941 Colvm, J ames, Bell No. 483 Aviation Cadet U S N
, . . avy.
1939 C oo k sey, J o h n, North Star , No. 91 Staff Sergeant
U S Ar
1937 Countryman, Robert, Occidental No.' 22 Second Lieu't
A my.
1927 Cox, Clark, Center No. 465, c. R. M., 'u. s . Navy. " · · rmy.
1941 Crawford, Robert, Pentalpha No. 202 Fireman 3/ c u s N
. R
S
,
,
' . . avy.
1939 C um'b erb,
emo, peranza Italiana No. 219, Gunner's Mate 1f
U. S. Navy.
·
• c,

U. S.

SN
USN

us

uS

1935
1942

Dav~s, Georgiana, Tujunga No. 592, Private, WAC.
Dav1s, Lester R., East San Diego No. 561, R. T., U. S. Army Air
C orps.
1932 Day, John A., Lompoc No. 262, Corporal, U. S. Army.
1940 Dobson, Glenn, Torrance No. 447, PhM., 3/ c, U. S. Navy.
1928 Edwardes, Arthur, Richmond No. 375 First Lieut U S Army.
1937 Elliott, Willard, Euclid No. 519, R., 3,' U. S. Navy.. , · ·

588

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1938 Firgens, Herb, Monrovia No. 308, Seaman, 1/c, U. S. Coast Guard.
1930 Fischer, Eugene, Board of Relief, U. S. Army.
1941 Fuller, Harry, Mount Olive No. 506, Sergeant, U. S. Army.
1936 Gee, James, Covenant No. 527, Pfc., U. S. Army.
1933 Gittings, George, Silver Gate No. 296, Technical Sergeant, U. S.
Army.
1929 Gorbett, Jack, Ontario No. 301, Private, U. S. Army.
1934 Greene, William, Temple No. 14, S. P., 2/c, U. S. Navy.
t1936
1930
1941
1942
1940

Hocks, Russell, Occidental No. 22, U. S. Navy.
Hayward, Kirk, Burlingame No. 200, U. S. Army.
Hopkins, Hugh, Santa Paula No. 291, Seaman, 2/c, U. S. Navy.
Houtz, Walter, Alhambra No. 322, A. S., U. S. Navy.
Hass, Marian, San Francisco No. 360, U. S . .Marines.

1936 Jewell, Donald, Rio Vista No. 208, Electrician Mate, 3/c, U. S.
Navy.
1941 Jones, Richard, Orange Grove No. 293, Seaman, 2/c, U. S. Navy.
1942 Jones, Paul, Orange Grove No. 293, Pfc., U. S. Marines.
1937 Kalkenrath, John A., Larchmont No. 614, Second Lieut., U. S.
Army.
1933 Kathan, Fred, Security No. 581, PhM., lie, U . S. Navy.
1942 LaVoie, William, Phoenix No. 178, Private, U. S. Army.
t1939 Lord, Edmund J., Golden West No. 455, Staff Sergeant, U. S.
Marines.
1940 Lidell, Samuel, Pasadena No. 272, Sergeant, U. S. Army.
1940 Lidell, Earnest, Pasadena No. 272, Sergeant, U. S. Army.
1938 Lewin, Rosetta, Los Angeles No. 42, Private, U. S. Marines.
1943 Lord, Richard, Golden West No. 455, Seaman, 2/c, U. S. Navy.
1940 Lounsbury, Harold, Yosemite No. 99, Machinist's Mate, 2/c, U . S.
Navy.
1938 Lounsbury, William, Yosemite No. 99, A. R. fvf., 2/c, U. S. Navy.
1919
1932
1938
1942
1938
1942
1940
1929
1942
1942
1939
1940
1934
1935

McDowell, John C., Mt. Jackson No. 295, U . S. Navy.
McKinley, Philip, Vacaville No. 134, Private, U. S. Army.
McKinnon, John P., Sequoia No. 349, Second Lieut., U. S. Arfl}y.
McLean, Norman, Mt. Moriah No. 44, R. M., 3/c, U. S. Navy.
Mark, John, Whittier No. 323, Private, U. S. Army.
Maxwell, Allan, Albert Pike No. 484, U. S. Coast Guard.
Maxwell, Martin, Albert Pike No. 484, Corporal, U. S. Army.
Merrill, Grayson, Highland Park No. 382, Lieut.-Comndr., U. S.
Navy.
Monroe, James, Orland No. 265, Fireman, 2/c, U . S. Navy.
Monroe, Preston, Orland No. 265, Private, U . S. Army.
Morgan, John W., Amity No. 370, Ensign, U. S. Navy.
Myers, Harvey, University No. 394, Private, U. S. Army.
Myers, Lawrence, University No. 394, First Lieut., U. S. Army.
Myers, Wilbur, University No. 394, Staff Sergeant, U. S. Army.

1939 Nelson, Alva, Montebello No. 451, M. S., 2/c, U. S. Navy.
1940 Nelson, Calvin, Montebello No. 451, T . M., 3/c, U. S. Navy.
1935 Nelson, Nels, Las Palmas No. 366, Aviation Cadet, U. S. Army
Air Corps.
tl938 Nix, Clifford, Hollenbeck No. 319, Corporal, U. S. Army.
1934 Norrell, Claude, Eas.t San Diego No. 561, Second Lieut., U . S.
Arm~
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

589
1927 Parrent, Arvin, Golden State No. 358, U. S. Army.
1943 Peterson, Kenneth, Argonne No. 514 Seaman 2/c U s N
*1939 Peter
• ·U. · S. avy.
. son, R a IP h , v·1ctorvi·1 le No. 634, ' Aviation ' Cadet
Army
Air Corps.
'
1936 Plaster, George, South Park No. 563, A. S., U. S. Navy.
1939 Prewett, Norman, Sisson No. 310, Sergeant, U. S. Army.
1935 Richards, Langton, Mt. Davidson No. 481, Aviation Cadet u s
Navy.
' · ·
1930 R~ynolds, Earl, Live Oak No. 61, U. S. Army.
1937 R~chardson, ~oseph,. Golden State No. 358, Corporal, U. S. Army.
1937 Riddell, Edwin, Amity No. 370, Sig., lie, U. S. Coast Guard.
1943 Rogers, Gordon, Valley Forge No. 587, U . S. Army Air Corps.
1935 Rouch, Herb~rt, Traver No. 294, R. T., 2/c, U . S. Navy.
*1935 Rouch, Melvm, Traver No. 294, Second Lieut., U. S. Army.
1940 Rowland, George, Mariposa No. 24, Corporal, U. S. Army.
1939 Rowland, James, Mariposa No. 24, Seaman, 2/c, U. S. Navy.
1935 Runkle, Robert L., Lompoc No. 262, Private, U. S. Army.
1941 S~chau, William, Victory No. 474, Aviation Cadet, U. S. Arm
Air Corps.
Y
1930 Schierellt>eck, Albert, Oak Grove No. 215 Lieut U S Ar
A'1
r
Corps. .
' ·
" · ·
my
1932 Schulte, Carl, Hermann No. 127, Sergeant, U. S. Army.
1936 ~chulte, "Helen, Hermann No. 127, Second Lieut., U. s. Army
urse.
1938 Schulze, Frank, Military Service No. 570, Pfc., U . S. Marines ·
1934 Schwarz, Adolph, Los Angeles No. 42, Pfc., U. S. Army. ·
1939 Schwartz, Joseph, Los Angeles No. ~2, U. S. Coast Guard.
1940 Short, Ralph, LaFayette No. 126, U. S. Marines
1934 S~oupe,, Billee, Santa Ana No. 241, Sergeant,
S. Ariily.
1935 Sm~on, fed, Ocean Park No. 369, U. S. Army.
1942 Sm~th, Arthur, Presidio No. 354, Seaman, 2/c, U. S. Navy.
*1934 Smith, \\'alter, Fullerton No. 339, U. S. Navy,
1923 Terstegge, John, Chico No. 111, Captain, U. S. Army.
1933 Taylor, Charles Vaughn, Woodstock No. 491, Technical Sergeant,
U.S. Army.
1937 Taylor, Floyd, .Woodstock. No. 491, Corporal, U. S. Army.
1936 Thacker,. MarV1n, San Jacmto No. 328, Technical Sergeant U. S.
Army Air Corps.
'
1934 Traxler, Arnold C., Oakland No. 188, Ensign, U. S. Navy Air
Corps.
·
1942 Wag~on, Joseph, Western Star No. 2, Corporal, U. S. Marines.
1942 Wall~ne, Cleon, Winnedumah No. 287, A. S., U. S. Navy.
1939 Wallme, Harold, Winnedumah No. 287, U. S. Navy.
1933 Watts, Jack, America No. 475, C. M., lie, U. S. Navy.
1941 VtfesStonN, Robert, John D . Spreckels No. 657, Machinist's Mate, 2/c,
U . . avy.
1933 W!lliams, Robert, Artesia No. 377, U. S. Army Ai~ Corps.
1941 W~lson, John, Craftsmen No. 559, U. S. Navy.
1942 V\'.'imberly, Raymond, Wilmington No. 198, Private, U. S. Arm.Y
Air Corps.
1943 Witherell, Frank, South Park No. 563, A. S., U. S. Navy.
1942 Zahn, Jerome, San Francisco No. 360, Pfc., U. S. Army.

N

u:

-----

* Died in line .of duty.
t Honorably discharged.

590

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNtA

Health at the Decoto Home

Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home
Brethren: As Superintendent, I herewith submit for your consideration, my third annual report of the Masonic Home at Decoto, for the
year ending August 31, 1943. This being the forty-fourth annual report
filed by its superintendents during the existence of the Home. ·
At the beginning of the fiscal year there were 305 residents enjoying
the comfort and protection of the Home. During the year there were
admitted eleven men, at an average age of 65.91 years, and twenty
women, at an average age of 77.9 years. During the same period we
lost by death 27 men, at an average age of 77.41 years and 17 women,
at an average age of 77 years. By withdrawal 8 men and 1 woman.
The end of the year leaves us with 131 men and 152 women, a total
of 283 residents. This includes fourteen married couples.
The age groups of the residents are as follows:

From the report of Dr. W. L. Whirter, Home Physician and Surgeon,
we give the following excerpts:
The Home Hospital, under the direct supervision of Miss Esther G.
Payne, R. N., who has served the Home Residents long and faithfully,
consists of accommodations for fifty patients. In an emergency, sixty
beds can be provided for patients. The average number of patients cared
for in the hospital is forty-five per day.
Regular Clinic hours are ·maintained five days per week. The average
number visiting the Clinic daily are six. Daily visits to hospital patients
and evening calls upon those who are seriously ill are made throughout
the year. Emergency visits, day or night, are made when necessary.
The physio-therapy department is equipped with a short wave Diathermy machine, Infra-red lamps, ultra violet cold quartz lamp and other
modalities for heat and cold therapy. Average daily treatments are four,
with Miss Payne acting technician.
X-rays are made by the Home Physician for the diagnosis of fractures.
Minor surgery is done at the Home Hospital. Those requiring major or
special surgery are promptly transported to hospitals in San Frandsco,
Oakland or San Jose, in the Home Station wagon ambulance.
Special diets · for the Home Residents are prescribed when deemed
necessary, and are faithfully carried out by the dietitian. Inspections of
the kitchens and food are made at least once weekly by the medical department and uniformly sanitary conditions and well balanced meals are
always found.
Finances
This year we come to Grand Lodge reporting a surplus of $141,658.39.
Several factors are responsible for this. One factor is the $25.00.contribution from initiates who, as you have been informed, have this year increased in large numbers and second that war time restrictions and
rationing have curtailed our expenditures.
For three years we have been unable to secure material for repairs,
replacement and modernization of our properties. At such time as peace
permits, we face large expenditures for painting, carpentry, plumbing,
rebuilding and · modernization of elevators; laundry equipment, carpets
and furnishings, a new roof on the ramp from dining room to hospital,
and a multitude of minor items.
With' the realization that from five to seven years may pass during
which time replacements and rehabilitation or proper modernization of our
Homes will be prevented by war activities, we deemed it advisable to set
up a reserve of $100,000 out of the surplus, to be used for Post War
building, equipment, and modernization, leaving available for general maintenance purposes the sum of $41,658.39. This will enable us to make a
material reduction in our per capita, and, we therefore, recommend that
the per capita assessment for the support of the Hom~s be reduced 50
per cent and thus fixed at 20 cents for the ensuing year.
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG,
JAMES B. GIST,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
SAMUEL E. BURKE,
CLAUDE H. MORRISON,
GILBERT
DEFOREST,
LAWRENCE C. KELLEY, Trustees.

c.

591

4 between the ages of 50 and 60 years,
51 between the ages of 60 and 70 years,
131 between the ages of iO and 80 years,
89 between the ages of 80 and 90 years,
8 between the ages of 90 . and 100 years.
The average age at this time is 75.86 years for the women and 76.11
for men.
In addition to the wonderful climatic conditions which exist in this
locality, the regular habits, proper diet, contentment and careful medical
supervision which the residents enjoy, I am sure helps much in permitting the elder folk to attain the additional years which the above table
indicates have been added to the proverbial three score and ten.
Generally speaking, the health condition at the Home during the
year has been very good. However, advancing years bring with them
the inevitable infirmities. Therefore we shall always find it necessary
to care for the infirm, blind and crippled in the hospital. At present
43 residents are being cared for in that department.
We are fortunate indeed in having Miss Esther Gill Payne to supervise the work in the hospital, where kind, faithful and considerate
servic~ is her constant watchword. Then, too, we are fortunate in having
Dr. W. L. McWhirter as our physician. He is one of the busiest men
in the community, due to the absence of so many of the doctors, who
have been called into service. However, Dr. McWhirter finds time to
visit the Home every day, and ne'v er hesitates to come when .called in
emergencies.
The policy of creating a home-like atmosphere in the Home, and
harmony and contentment among the residents, which Mrs. Virginia
Meek Lord, our Matron, and myself adopted when we took over the
management, is being diligently pursued.
The labor problem, with which everyone is confronted today, has
had its effect on our Home. For the past six months ·we have been
unable to maintain a full staff in all departments, and at times it has
been very critical. The residents are helping in every way possible.
However, there is a limit to their ability. For several months we have
been without, and unable to secure, a painter or a fireman, and during
the month of August our food has been prepared by our chef, who has
as his assistant, one of the residents. As a result certain services have
been curtailed, but I am confident our standard has not been lowered.
With all this shortage of help we feel that the Home and the grounds
still present a very clean and attractive appearance.

592

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Along with the labor situation we also have our food problems. With
the help of the Almighty and the Washington Township Ration Board
our Home is still functioning, and I want to say here that we are fortunate in having a Ration. Board who are capable and very understanding
of our situation. The food allowed us by the local Ration Board has
been ample for our needs so far without in any manner lessening the
quality or quantity of food served. We, of course, do not have the
variety to select from. However, in most cases we are able to find
satisfactory substitutes.
'
In the past twelve months we have served 310,119 meals at an average
cost of $0.1605 per meal.
Most of the farm land is leased on a cash basis, the small portion
retained for Home use furnishes a goodly amount of the fruit, vegetables
and berries. The poultry department has not done so well this year.
We have plans for the future which we hope will improve this department.
We acquired 14 head of hogs the early part of the year. Apparently
this acquisition is going to prove profitable. To date this department
has supplied the Home with about 1000 lbs. of meat and we still have
on hand 21 feeders for future use, in addition to two brood sows and
a boar.
A list of the programs presented by the Lodges will be found in
another part of the report. To those Lodges go our grateful thanks
and appreciation. We only wish we could have more.
On August 21st the East Bay Past Matrons' Association visited the
Home. In their usual generous manner they presented the Home with a
very generous supply of cakes, jellies and jams. Also a supply of pajamas,
night gowns and table covers and comforters. We want to assure this
fine organization that the family fully appreciate the interest shown in
their behalf.
After lunch, provided by the Association, which was served in the
basement banquet room, they adjourned to the auditorium and introduced the Grand Matron and the Grand Patron of the 0 . E. S. with their
official family and all the past a~d present officers of the Association. A
very fine program, consisting of recitations, instrumental and vocal numbers was presented.
A report of the devotional services will be found elsewhere in the
report. We feel very much indebted to these Reverend gentlemen for
the fine message they bring to us each Sunday.
Our Thursday evening program which is s~pplied by the R K 0,
Columbia Pictures Corporation, United Artists Corporation, Warner
Bros. Pictures, Twentieth Century-Fox, Film Distributing Companies of
Sa n Francisco, is greatly appreciated by the family and to these fine
organizations go our grateful thanks. We were almost robbed of these
programs due to the fact that the Union is unable to furnish an operator.
We have soh,ed this difficulty by operating the picture machines ourselves; therefore, the show goes on just the same.
Our many friends and members of the fraternity keep the Home
well supplied with magazines, books and periodicals, which the members
enjoy reading and appreciate very much.
During the year, Grand Master Leslie Wood and his family honored
us with a visit, and made a careful inspection of the Home.
The Trustees, Grand Secretary, and other Grand Lodge officers have
made periodical visits to the Home, during the year.

593

We appreciate these visits and urge their continuance, knowing that
we are going to be greatly benefited by your kindly advice.
The past year has been a very unusual one. We have met our problems continuously and have attempted to dispose of them with sensible
judgment, and trust our judgment has met with your approval.
In conclusion, Mrs. Lord and myself wish to extend our appreciation
of the loyal service rendered by our employees. To the members of the
Home who are so ably assisting go our grateful thanks, and··to express
to the members of the Board of Trustees our sincere gratitude for their
counsel and advice.
:•
Respectfully submitted,
J. R. EuaANKS, Superintendent.
Statement of the average number of reside·nts at the Masonic Home
at Decoto, California, from August 1, 1942, to July 31, 1943.
August ....................
September ..............
October ..................
November ..............
December ..............
January ....................

Men
155
157
157
157
152
150

Women
150
152
153
152
152
153

Men
February ................ 146
March ......'........·...:.... 143
April ........................ 141
May .............. ,........... 139
June .......................... 137
July .......................... 134

1768
Monthly average for the year: Men, 147.33; women, 152.17.

Women
153
154
153
149
153
152
1826

'Statement of the average number of employees employed at the
Masonic Home at Decoto, California, from August 1, 1942, to July 31,
1943:
August ............................................ 56 February ....... ~............................
57
September ...................................... 55 March .............................................. 54
October .......................................... 50 April ................................................ 44
November ...................................... 48 May .................................................. 47
December ...................................... 55 June ................................................ 45
January .......................................... 55 July .................................................. 47
Monthly average for the year: 51.08. .

613

List of Residents-Decoto Home
Following is a complete list of resid~nts of the Decoto Home the
date of their admission, their respective ages, names and numbe;s of
Lodges nominating them and location of such Lodges. Complete to
August 31, 1943.
Men 131-Average Age 76.11

Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Adkins, Jason A. ..........July 1,3, '40 San Simeon..........196 Cambria .......: ..........63
Allan, James G...........April 1, '39 Crocker ................454 Daly City .....~ ........69
Alseth, Lars .................. Mar. 7, '34 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ..........69
Anderson, Charles A ...Nov. 19,·'36 Tehachapi ............313 Tehachapi ..•...........80
Anderson, Peter C.....July 27, '41 D oric ....................216 San Francisco ......82
Anderson.I William A. ..June 22, '42 Chowchilla ..........485 Chowchilla ............ 59
Andrews, Frank H ..... April 25, '42 Durant .................268 Berkeley ...............,73
Anthony, Thomas M ...July 17, '39 Sequoia ................349 Oakland ................79
Archer, Ernest E ...:.....Jan. 30, '36 Palos Verdes.........389 Long Beach ..........76

594

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Age
Town
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Bader, Henry.............. Nov. 28, '28 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco ......79
Baer, Reubin E ...........J une 25, '42 Sotoyome ............123 Healdsburg ..........76
Barnes, Elmer W ....... July 7, '34 Liberty ............... .299 Santa Clara .......... 74
Battle, Joseph D ........... Dec. 9, '30 Stanislaus ............206 Modesto ................8,1
Beall Alexander D ... Mar. 29, '36 Mounti Moriah. ... 44 San Francisco ......79
Beat,' Charles L ........... Feb. 15, '34 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............7'!
Bennett, Frederick C... Dec. 4, '41 Charter R<ick ......410 Berkeley ................Tl
Benninger, Wm. G..... Mar. 27, '34 Hanford ..............279 Hanford ................Tl.
Bentley, Isam H ........... Jan. 31, '31 Oakdale ................275 Oakdale ................83
Bird, Robert B ........... Dec. 6, '36 Mission ..... _.........169 San Francisco ......80
Bly, Carl D ...................July 7, '34 Hollenbeck ..........319 Los Angeles ..........83
Boehm, Hiram } .........July 19, '31 Big Bear.. ............617 Big Bear Lake ......80
Bonde, Hans P ...........J uly 6, '32 Alisa! ....................321 Pleasanton ........... :80
Bonfigli, Emilio .......... Sept. 11, '41 Speran. Italiana 219 San Francisco ...... 72
Bordeaux, William O ... Dec. 7, '41 Torrance ............ :.447 Torrance ................84
Brittain, William H ... June 14, '40 Coronado ............ 441 Coronado ..............&4
Car , Mell A ....... :......... Aug. 4, '36 Ione ...................... 80 Camptonville ........76
Carpenter, John } ....... May 2, '37 Mendocino ..... :.... 179 Mendocino ..............U
Cassady, Earl }........... Feb. 3, '36 Geo. Wash'ton .... 525 San Francisco ......72
Casterline, Myron N ... Nov. 16, '32 Oceanside ....... _...381 Oceanside ..............78
Childs, Clarence E ....... Oct. 8, '41 Palo Alto..............346 Palo Alto ..............83
Closson, Harry }. ........ May 4, '31 Tuolumne ............ 8 Sonora .......... :....... 71
Condon, Wilbert S.....Jan. 11, '42 Apollo .................. 396 Alameda ................61
Cullen, Alexander ........ Feb.. 4. '36 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ...., ........81
Davis, John O ............. Oct. 15, '42 San Benito ..........211 Hollister ............,...71
DeWitt, Frank W .....June 30, '42 Torrance .............. 447 Torrance ........ :.......63
Dillman, Thomas M ... May 16, '37 Norwalk ..............315 Norwalk ................ 94
Dinesen, Jacob N ......:.Nov. 1, '32 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ......:......... 81.
Dolan, John C............. Aug. 4, '31 Redlands ....'. .........300 Redlands .....~ ..........78
Dowdall,FrederickW.Aug. 3, '43 Solano ..... _.........229 Vallejo ..................63
Engle, Wm. H ....:............. Dec. 12, '31 Pentalpha · ........... .202 Los Angeles ..........73
Ernst, Cuno A ............. Aug. 26, '32 Tehama ................ 3 Sacramento ..........80
Erwin, Lewis, Jr .........July 28, '41 Olivet .................,205 Corning ..................8'1
Fender, Andrew } ....... Dec. 5, '30 Northern Light ... .190 MiJlville ................80
Franck, Isadore ............} an. 10, '16 La Parfaite Un ... 17 San Francisco ...... 95
Furlong, Barre A ....... Mar. 4, '39 Pomona .... ~ ......... .246 Pomona ..................79
Garnie, Fred H ........... Nov. 7, '40 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco ...... 71
Geibel, George F .........May 12, '.39 Fairmount ........... .435 San Francisco ...... 69
Goodrich, Edward .......... Aug. 8, '31 Fresno .................. 247 Fresno ....................
Gray, William D ......... May 9, '42 Eel River ............ 147 Fortuna ........:.........fl!
Greaves, Walter.......... Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda ................74
Gregory, George W ... April 25, '36 Sunset ..................352 Los Angeles ..........77
Halpin, Robert L ......... Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel... ... 415 Los Angeles ._ .......70
Hamblin, Abraham L ...Jan. 8, '34 South West ..........283 National City ........ 77
Hamilton, Robert M ... April 25, 36 Temblor ............... .477 Fellows ............,.....77
Hamilton, William T ... Sept. 13, '41 Tujunga .............. 592 Tujunga ................79
Harris, Louis ................ } an. 13, '23 Los Angeles .......... 42 Los Angeles ..........67
Harth, Arthur P ......... Sept. 4, '40 Lindsay .. :............ .416 Lindsay .................. 70
Haupt, Oscar................June 28, '30 Naval .................... 87 Vallejo ..................80
Hayes, Corwin J .........Mar. 5, '36 Covina .................. 334 Covina ....................78
Heath, James H ........... Feb. 8, '35 Santa Maria ........ 580 Ramona .~.: ..............80
Heidt, Wesley....: ......... Aug. 5, '39 Occidental ............ 22 San Francisco ......78
Henry, Wm. P ............. July 10, '37 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................86

sa

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

595

_No.
Name
Admitted
Lodge
Hiltner, Harry B ......... Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ..........435
Horn, Adelbert... ...........July 9, 41 West Lake............392
Hughes, Henry } ......... Dec. 26, '35 Fairmount ......... .435
Hullinger, Frank........ Aug. 26, '40 Sequoia ................349
Hyde, George.............. Dec. 22, '30 Mill Valley..........356

San Francisco ...... 76
Los Angeles .......... 76
San Francisco ...... 73
Oakland ................ 66
Mill Valley ............84

Town

Age

Jack, Charles P .., ..........Jan. 9, '38
Jewell, Frank H, ........ Aug. 7, '42
Johanson, Charles A ...Jan. 29, '39
Jones, George Wm ..... Sept. 8, '38

Presidio ................ 354 San Francisco ...... 64
Bay View............401 Oakland .................. 74
Balder .................. 393 San Francisco ...... 83
Delano .................. 309 Delano ....................67

Kemp, Edward H ....... Nov. 24, '37
.Kimball, John C......... Mar. 27, '37
Kinchin, Peter.. ............ Nov. 4, '35
Lacy, Hervey R ........... Aug. 16, 34
Laton, Edward L ....... April 23, '32
· Lehman, August H ..... Dec. 14, '28
Loher, George T .........J uly 1, '39
Lynch, Walter C......... Feb. 8, '36

Oak Grove............215 Alameda ................75
Mount Moriah .... 44 San Francisco ......86
Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa ................82
Solano ..................229 Vallejo ....................66
La Fayette ........... .126 Sebastopol ...... _.,, .. 78
Santa Monica ...... 307 Santa Monica ........84
Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland :.....:..~ ... :....76
Pasadena ..............272 Pasadena ................68

Marsh, Willis C. ........ ~ept. 28, '42 Fruitvale .............. 336 Oakland ..............,·...81
Matthews, Elbert C.....July 10, '35 La Mesa ............... .407 La Mesa ~ ............... 75
McClain, Charles A.:.:.Jan. 26, '35 Mosaic ..................2I8 Livermore ..............89
Meyers, Ernest C....... Feb. 24, '42 Stockton ..............498 Stockton ....:...........82
Milisich, Chris .............. Oct. 5, '31 Speran. Italiana 219 San Francisco ...... 79
Miner, Elton C............ May 9, '43 All States .............. 593 Long Beach ... ~ ...... 54
Morris, Harry. B ......... Nov. 28, '30 La Fayette ........... .126 Sebastopol .............. 79
Morrison, Wm. F .......June 27, '32 Solano .................,.229 Vallejo ....................79
Murden, Robert } ....... Mar. 26, '28 Alcatraz ..............244 Berkeley ................77
Nevitt, Charles E ......... Oct. 31, '36 Hollywood ..... _...355 Hollywood ............82
· Nielsen, lngvel 0 ....... 0ct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland .................. 70
Owen, William L ....... Aug. 12, '22 Mission ......._....... 169 San Francisco ._ ... 84
Pouyet, Eugene ............ Oct. 26, '37 Catalina Island .... 524 Avalon ....................60
Preslar, Henry A ......... Dec. 10, '39 Alcatraz ................ 244 Oakland ..................82
Quilty, Frank E ........... Feb. 1, '33 Friendship ............210 San Jose ................90
Reaper, Robert W ....... May 14, '39
Reinhold, Peter W .........July 16, '37
Reynolds, Samuel S..... Mar. 14, 43
Riley, Perry M ............. Feb. 22, '37
Robie, Ira A.: ............. Aprif · 1, '42
Ryan, Charles A ......... Aug: 28, '40

Starr King ............ 344 San Francisco ......65
Marin ................. .191 San Rafael ............ 84
Calexico .............. 412 Calexico ................79
Lakeshore ............ 551 Oakland ................:.72
Clay ..................... .101 Dutch Flat ............81
Baldwin Park ......660 Baldwin Park ........66

Sarwine, Christian H .....June 10, '36 Monrovia ............ 308 Monrovia ..............83
Schan dell, Mathais C.. Jan. 15, '38 Dunsmuir ............297 Dunsmuir .............. 79
Schlicting, Martin ........ May 16, '35 Seaport '................ 550 San Francisco ......70
Sebree, Charles H ....... Mar. 21, '36 Pacific Grove ...... 331 Pacific Grove ........82
Slagel, Robert B ........... Oct. 28, '38 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco ......66
Smith, John S............... Feb. 5, '39 Paul Revere ........462 San Francisco ...... 74
Smith, Roland A ...........Jan. 29, '27 Callayomi ............282 Middletown ............83
Sniffen, Samuel T .......Jan. 31, '33 West Lake............ 392 Los Angeles ..........88
Somervell, Lou..................Jan. 27, '43 Utopia .................. 537 Los Angeles .......... 52
Spaulding, Horace R ... Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ............ 388 San Francisco ...... 78
Standeford, Wm. B .... ,Nov. 12, '29 Live Oak.............. 61 Oakland ..................76
Stolz, Leon E ............... May 21, '41 Paul Revere .......... 462 San Francisco ...... 70

596

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Admitted

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

No.

Town

Age

Name
Templeman, Henry.:.. Dec. 29, '38 Oriental ................144 San Francisco ......83
Thaxter, Frank W ..... Aug. 17, '42 Charter Rock ......410 Berkeley ................80
Thompson, Loretto P ...Dec. 10, '39 Excelsior :..:........166 San Francisco ......63
Todd, Albert E. W .........Dec. 19, '38 Honolulu ..............409 Honolulu ·······-·······73
Todhunter, Charles D ..... Feb. 12, '.42 Abell ..............:..... 146 Ukiah ....................78
Tosy Antonio................ Sept. 23, '37 Speran. ltaliana..219 San Francisco .•....76
Trav~rs, John..................May 7, '36 Evening Star......186 Etna Mills ............79
Tucker, Ira W .............:...May 12, •33 · San .Jose.....: .......... 10 San Jose ................89
Vorsanger, Edw. A....."..June 10, '37 Martinez .............. 41 Martinez ................75
Waite, Fred.................:.....July 16; '35 Delano ..................309 Delano ....................71
Watkins, David K. ........Nov. 29; '31 Paul Revere..........462 San Francisco ......71
Wear, Norman H .........Nov. 11, '42 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......57
Wigginton, James . W,....July 15, '29 S. W . Hackett....574 San Diego ·-··········;86
Wilder, James C.......,,.. Aug. 18, '42 Lincoln ,..............A70 San Francisco ......86
Wilson, Clinton C.:.......Sept. 22, '42 Santa Cruz............ 38 Santa Cruz ............tlO
Wilson, George..............Mar. 31, '36 Fraternity ............399 San Jose ................78
Witcosky, John A .....;... Sept. 16, '30 Amity ...."..............370 San Francisco ......64
Woodworth, James L ...Aug. 12, 42 Brooklyn ...........225 Oakland ...........:.....'.84
Wright, Ralph..............,...Jan. 26, '39 Seaside .............;..504 Long Beach ..........61 ·
Women 152-Average Age 75.86
Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Allen, .l da..........................Feb. 17, '40 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......75
Ames, Oementina H ..... Mar. 8, '41 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......81
Anderson, Hilda C...........Oct. 28,·'34 Crockett ·······-·······139 San Francisco ......65
Appleton, Minnie P ....... Aug. 1, '36 Live Oak .............. 61 Oakland ·············-···66
Atwood, Ida !.................Sept. 7, '31 El Cajon Valley.. 576 El Cajon ..,.............78
Baehr, Linea L.................Dec. 8, '42 King Solomon's....260 San Francisco ...,..78
Bane, Annabell E...........July 20, '32 Orland ..................265 Orland ....................76
Bane, Florence A ...........Nov. 13, '29 Rockridge ......~ .....468 Oakland ..:.:............. 78
Barnes, Elaine G.............July 7, '34 Liberty ,.................2.99 Santa Gara ..........73
Bartlett, Helen E .._.........Jan. 26, '38 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ......72
Barton, Annie M............. Aug. 27, '.33 Truckee ...............200 Truckee ..................n
Bausch, Ella A ................. Oct. 2, '41 Sequoia ................349 Oakland ·············-···80
Berge, Lilly B................. Sept. 30, '26 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ..........89
Bernstein, Cornelia..........J une 26, '24 Berkeley ..............363 Berkeley ................84
Bertram, Annie l,.........Sept. 20, '42 Durant ................268 Berkeley ................81
Black, Nettie E ............. Sept. 24, '42 Fruitvale ·-·········336 Oakland ... ~..............70
Bolting, Isadore L ...........Dec. 29, '33 Silver Gate ..........296 San Diego .............:84
Brockman, Katherine S. Feb. 23, '43 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............70
Broughton, Anne E .......Sept. 6, '34 Magnolia ...........,..242 Santa Barbara ....87
Brown, Lima C. ..............May 25, '34 Bethlehem ............453 San Francisco ......87
Brown, Mary Ann._.....Sept. 2, '42 Oakland ................ 188 Oakland _ ...............90
Brown, May M...............Nov. 29, '42 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ............71
Burnett, Ethlan R. ........•.Feb. 9, '36 Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ....................68
Bush, Lotta A .................Aug. 28, '37 King Solomon's....260 San Francisco ......70
Cass, Mary E ...................July 7, '28 Sisson ·-·················310 Mt. Shasta ............87
Casterline, Mary A. ........ Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ............381 Oceanside ..............70
Chapman, Magnolia W., Mar. 20, '37 Union .................... 58 Sacramento ..........81
Chase, Aimee C. ..............Dec. 3, '41 Bethlehem ............453 San Francisco ......74
Copeland, Wilhelmina....July 11, '32 Golden Gate ........ 30 San Francisco ......70
Cornell, Mabel..................Dec.14, '35 Charity ................362 Campbell .................60
Costain, Mattie L...........June 10, '40 San Jose ............... 10 San Jose ·-·············67

597

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Damner Jennie._.............. Aug. 27, '42 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ......68
Davis, Fannie..................June 24, '34 Mount Moriah .... 44 San Francisco ......87
Duncan, Emily..................Jan.15, '43 Arroyo ..................274 Arroyo Grande ....83
Dupuy, Ruth .................. May 10, '.40 Valle De France..329 Los Angeles ..........71
Edwards, Nellie B...........Jan. 24, '39 Brooklyn ..............225 Oakland ..................68
Egan, Maud L~ .....:.. ~ ......Mar. 2, '41 San Diego ·-······· 35 San Diego ..............66
Erwin, Lillian B..,(..........July 23, '41 Olivet ..................205 Corning ..................70
Felton, Mary M ....·.........Oct. 3, '34 Mt. Davidson ......481 San Francisco ......68
Ferguson, Ruth R. ..........May 26, '34 Sotoyome -··········123 Healdsburg ·······-···86
Fetrow, Dora L........_.....May 11, '35 Corinthian ............ 9 Marysville ............74
Finley, Ada L............... April 9, '40 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ..........72
Ford, Sena A ................c•• July 27, '41 Harbor ..................502 Richmond ..............73
Fortriede, Auguste E ..... Apr. 24, '25 Crockett .........•....139 San Francisco ......66
Fosler, Elizabeth M.......July 8, '36 Hawaiian .............. 21 Honolulu ................74
Foster, Nellie G... :...........June 21, '30 Berkeley ·········-···363 Berkeley ·······-·······80
Fowler, Mary B............. Mar. 25, '43 Solano ..................229 Vallejo ...:......:...:.:... 76
Garnett, Katherine .......... Apr. 13, '36 Silveyville ............201 Dixon ....................79
Given, Alice...........- .....:..:Dec. 7,'40 Hawaiian .............. 21 Honolulu ................73
Gordon, Emma.....~·-···-···June 27, '36, Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......64
Grant, Lillian A ............. Oct. 6,'32 Georgetown ........ 25 Georgetown .•........69
Greaves, Margaret !.......Oct 18, '32 Apollo .......-.........396 Alameda ................63
Greene, Anna E .............Mar. 11, '43 So. Pasadena ......367 South Pasadena ....77
Griffith, Rose L .............Mar. 26, '36 Enterprise ............ 70 Yuba City ...........,..77
Haley, Annie B...............Dec. 28, '40 Alameda ..............167 Centerville ............90
Harris, Louise C.............Feb. 19, '33 Pacific .................. 136 San Francisco ......68
Hazard, Marie..............Aug. 10,"'25 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ................73
Henderson, Florence B. May 25, '40 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ................63
Hiltner, Mary................ Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ·- ....7Z
Hoyt, Annie C................. Nov. 28, '41 Rio Vista .....•......208 Rio Vista ..............72
Hughes, Laura H ...........Mar. 11, '33 Phoenix ..............178 San Bernardino ....88
Hulsey, Tempie E ........... Sept. 18, '37 Fillmore ..............379 Fillmore ................87
Jack, Mary........................June 1, '31 McKinley ............347 Richmond ..............76
Jackson, May R. ............ Aug. 27, '25 Lompoc ................262 Lompoc ..................84
Johns, Sarah.................... Sept. 6, '36 East Belt ............391 Tuolumne ..............87
Johnson, Jane H ..............Jan. 6, '34 Presidio ................354 San Francisco ......77
Johnson, Mary................Feb. 8, '42 Richmond ............375 Richmond ..............67
Jones, Mary......................Dec. 23, '38 Oakland ................ 188 Oakland ..........:.......70
Kaufmann, Eda B...........Oct. 2, '41 Alex. Gra. Bell ..595 Los Angeles ..........61
Keenan, Effie....................July 17, '33 Jewel ....................374 San Francisco ......66
Kellogg, Lillie F...............Dec. 2, '30 Chula Vista ........626 Chula Vista ..........87
Kelso, Katherine............ Apr. 26, '35 Redwood City .... 168 Redwood City ......78
Kidd, Millie A............... Aug. 21, '32 Amity ..................370 San Francisco ......76
Kimball, Camelia L....... Sept. 19, '26 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......78
Kimball, Lila M:............Mar. 27, '33 Mount Moriah .... 44 San Franc~sco ._... 72
Klevesahl, Catherine...... Aug. 27, '35 Hermann ............127 San Francisco ......87
Lamb, Julia E .................Oct. 23, '36 King David's ......209 San Luis Obispo ..71
Laufman, Anna.............. Aug. 27, '24 Sincerity .............. 132 Greenville ............92
Mackenzie, May W .......June 30, '41 Bay View ._.........401 Oakland ..................65
Maltby, Sarah E .............Dec. 16, '39 Chico .......:............111 Chico ......................73
Mann. Bertha M.............June 10, '33 Naval .................... 87 Vallejo ....................75
Martin, Mary J ............... Dec. 4, '41 Franklin ..............143 Courtland ..............70:
Masse, Eleanor R. ...'....... May 22, '36 Yount .................... 12 Napa .................. ~...70

598
Name

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Mayfield, Mary J ...........Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ....................431 Richmond ..............il
McDowell, Alice M.......Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz .............244 Oakland ..................&
McFarlane, Susie...- .......Sept. 15, '41 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......76
McLean, Lucy A ............. Nov. 28, '34 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......67
Mears, Margaretta T ..... Sept. 17, '41 Palestine .............. 351 Los Angeles ..........62
Merrill, Ivy L .................Jan. 25, '41 Illinoistown ........ 51 Colfax ........•...........6S
Miller, Esther J ............. Mar. 5, '34 Oriental .............. 144 San Francisco ......76
Mills, Isabel F ............... Mar. 22, '42 Union .................... 58 Sacramento ..........86
Monroe, Alma A.............June 24, '43 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ......61
Moore, Mary S ............... May 9, '33 Redwood City .... 168 Redwood City ......80
Moulton, Anne C. ..........Dec. 8, '42 Union ·······-········· 58 Sacramento ..........82
Nelander, Ida C...............Oct. 19, '40 Balder .............;....393 San Francisco ......80
Newman, Susanna..........J une 4, '29 Antioch ..:.............175 Antioch ..................81
Nielsen, Este M...............Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale .............. 336 Oakland ..................65
Nielsen, Mary V .._.........Nov. 21, '27 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ............82
Noble, Grace F._..............July 4, '32 Trinity ·······-········· 27 Weaverville ..........83
Nutter, Martha L ...........Mar. 25, '23 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ..........88
O'Donnell, Florence D ...June 1, '43 Durant ..................268 Berkeley ................81
Ohlsen, Julia.................. Sept. 7, '37 Balder ·-···············393 San Francisco ......65
Pankow, Catherine.......... Apr. 29, '29 Crockett .............. 139 San Francisco ......78
Peairs, Lillian W ...........Feb. 11, '35 Normal Heights..632 San Diego ............74
Preslar, Ida......................Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ..................81
Ramsey, Hattie L ...........June 23, '40 Monterey ............217 Monterey ................82
Raymond, Lillian F ....... Sept. 21, '39 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........74
Rieser, Mary G............. Aug. 4, '39 Brooklyn ..............225 Oakland ..................80
Roe, Addie E ...................July 28, '42 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland .................. 7~
Roeder, Elizabeth B.......June 6, '42 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ................ 72
Rogers, Leonora..............Oct. 6, '25 King David's ......209 San Luis Obispo ..84
Rogers, Louise................ Aug. 29, '42 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................87
Root, Emma F ...............Dec. 2, '32 Occidental ............ 22 San Francisco ......78
Roscoe, Nettie P .... :..........Jan. 13, '32 Oroville .............. 103 Oroville ..................72
Rosie, Elizabeth..............Jan. 12, '43 La Fayette ..........126 Sebastopol ..............80
Ross, Catherine L ...........May 3, '39 Morgan Hill ......463 · Morgan Hill ..........70
Rouscup, Annie M......... Sept. 18, '38 Burbank ..............406 Burbank ..................86
Rowman, Matilda............Aug. 11, '36 Sunnyside ............577 Los Angeles ..........78
Schmidt, Ella M............. Mar. 18, '34 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ................79
Schwartz, Grace M.........July 12, '42 Arlington ............414 Los Angeles ..........71
Settle, Mary......................Apr. 10, '41 Buckeye ·-·.......... 195 Winters ................87
Severin, Ida A ...............June 3, '43 Live Oak .............. 61 Oakland ..................78
Seymour, Laura..............Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu .................65
Shakespeare, Helen........ Nov. 26, '42 Live Oak .............. 61 Oakland ..................78
Shanks, Ella.................... Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ................72
Smay, Madge M.............June 11, '36 Alcatraz ···-········.244 Oakland ..................76
Smith, Minnie A .............July 12, '37 Smyrna ................ 532 Ceres ...;.................. 79
Snyder, Amanda G......... Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ..........224 Bakersfield :...........71
Soale, Carl B...................May 15, '32 Corona ......,.........324 Pasadena ................86
Sparrowe, Constance.... Sept. 27, '40 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ...... 75
Spaulding, Lillian I .......N av. 17, '41 Parnassus ...........:388 San Francisco ......72
Stewart, Mary................Mar. 12, '32 Concord ................ 117 Sacramento ............ 73
Stroud, Laura L. ............June 2, '37 Vacaville .....:........134 Vacaville ................ 70
Sully, Emma:.....................Oct.19, '42 Mount Jackson ..295 Guerneville ......:.....89
Sulsberg, Emma P ....... :.May 25, '42 Tehama ................ 3 Sacramento ............73

Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

599
Town

Age

Thomas, Elizabeth S ..... Dec. 7, '41 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ............65
Thomas, Ellen S.............Oct. 5, '38 Euclid ..................519 Los Angeles ..........62
Thompson, Celia.............. Dec. 16, '33 Eden ......................113 San Leandro ........72
Timm, Mattie A............,Sept. 5, '37 Silveyville ............201 Dixon ......................79
Torr, Georgina R. ............Jan. 14, '33 Elmhurst ..............610 Oakland ..................77
Vale, Olive B...................June 18, '36 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......86
Wade, Georgia M...........Feb. 24, '39 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ................ 71
Walton, Ida M.................June 22, '25 Oakland ................188 Oakland ..................84
Weigel, May L ............... Apr. 10, '32 Marin ....................191 San Rafael ............78
West, Henrietta B .........May 10, '30 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ............91
Wetzel, Laura C..............Dec. 18, '35 Presidio ................354 San Francisco ......81
Wilcox, Edith.................. May 3, '36 Durant ..................268 Berkeley ................76
Williams, Mary C...........Feb. 17, '43 H<Jltville ..............425 Holtville ................80
Williams. Sarah E. ........Feb. 16, '41 Mizpah .................378 Los Angeles ..........79
Wilson Maryan.............. Mar. 31, '36 Fraternity ............399 San Jose ..·..............77
Wonzod, Laura F ........... Apr. 14, '43 Fairmount ............435 San Francisco ......82
Yarrington, Grace M.....Feb. 26, '29 University ............394 Los Angeles ..........73
Admitted During the Year, Men 11-Average Age 65.91
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Davis, John O .................Oct. 15, '42 San Benito ..........211 Hollister ................71
Dowdall, Frederick.....:.. Aug. 3, '43 Solano ...................229 Vallejo ....................63
Grego, Hamilcar J ......... Dec. 3, '42 Sun Garden ........530 Fresno ....................66
Jacobson, Robert.............. May 25, '43 Doric ...................216 San Francisco ......67
Marsh, Willis C. ............Sept. 28, '42 Fruitvale ..............336 Oakland ..................81
Miner, Elton C............... May 9, '43 All States ............593 Long Beach .......... 54
Reynolds, Samuel S ....... Mar. 14, '43 Calexico ..............412 Calexico ....,.....~......79
Silsby, Edward H ......... Sept. 3, '42 Palos Verdes ......389 Long Beach ............75
Somervell, Lou ..................Jan. 27, '43 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ..........52
Wear, Norman H ........... Nov. 11, '42 Excelsior ...............166 San Francisco .....:57
Wilson, Clinton C.........Sept. 22, '42 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ............60

Admitted During the Year, Women 20-Average Age 77.90
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Baehr, Linea L ............... Dec. 8, '42 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco ......78
Bertram, Annie L ........... Sept. 20, '42 Durant ..................268 Berkeley .......:........81
Black, Nettie E ............. Sept. 24, '42 Fruitvale ..............336 Oakland ................70
Brockman, Katherine S ... Feb. 23, '43 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............70
Brown, Mary Ann........ Sept. 2, '42 Oakland ................1.88 Oakland ..................90
Brown, May M...............Nov. 29, '42 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ............71
Duncan, Emily..................Jan. 15, '43 Arroyo ..................274 Arroyo Grande ....83
Fowler, Mary B............. Mar. 25, '43 Solano ..................229 Vallejo ....................76
Greene, Anna E ............. Mar. 11, '43 South Pasadena .. 367 South Pasadena ....77
Monroe, Alma A ...........June 24, '43 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ......61
Moulton, Anne C........... Dec. 8, '42 Union .................... 58 Sacramento ............82
O'Donnell, Florence D...June 1, '43 Durant ..................268 Berkeley ........•.......81
Roeder, Elizabeth B.......Jun~ 6, '43 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ................72
Rosie, Elizabeth..............}an. 12, '43 La Fayette ..........126 Sebastopol ..............80
Severin, Ida A .................June 3, '43 Live Oak ............ 6!' Oakland ..................78
Shakespeare, Helen........ Nov. 26, '42 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ..................78
Strock, Anna G...............Apr. 2, '43 Corinthian ............ 9 Marysville ............79
Sully, Emma ..................Oct. 19, '42 Mount Jackson ..295 Guerneville ............89
Williams, Mary C........... Feb. 17, '43 Holtville ..............425 Holtville ................80
Wonzod, Laura F ........... Apr. 14, '43 Fairmount ............435 San Francisco ......82

600

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Deaths During the Year, Men 27-Average Age 77.41

Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Date
Hartin, Robert .......................... Jan. 8, '37 Arcata ....................... .106 Mar. 4, '43
Maynes, William A................. Mar. 25, '43 Escalon ·-·····················591 Aug. 7, '43
Reissberg, Jacob·-··················· Aug. 11, '42 Doric ···········-············.216 Sept. 20, 42
Roach, Francis T ..................... Sept. 3, '42 Antioch ..................... .174 May 14, '43
Silsby, Edward H ................... Sept. 18, '40 Palos Verdes ..............289 June 30, 43

Name
Age Lodge
No.
Died
Buried
Atwood, Ii-a A; ....... -...........81 El Cajon Val...576 Aug. 21, '43 Decoto
Carfagni, Peter..................:.81 Sper. Italiana..219 Apr. 19, '43 San Francisco
·3, '43 Decoto
Collins, Nelson W ...............80 Calistoga ....... 233 Dec.
5, '43 Lodi
Corson, Joseph M...............86 Valley ...:.:........ 135 July
Ford, William ]. .................. 73 McKinley ........ 347 Jan.
13, '43 Decoto
6, '43 Decoto
Fox, James ·······-·················93 Forbestown .... 50 May
Greene, Lawrence L...........63 San Miguel ....285 Dec. 29, '42 Oakland
4, '43 Decoto
Harris, Elijah......................78 Pasadena ........272 June
Hughes, Eugene F ...............89 Phoenix .......... 178 Feb. 16, '43 San Bernardino
Isaac, Adolph ........................81 Doric ................216 Nov. 29, '42 Decoto
Jacobson, Robert ..................67 Doric ................216 July 27, '43
Jensen, James L....................81 Texas .............. 46 July 20, '43 Deooto
LaBaree, William H ...........78 Berkeley ..........363 Dec.
7, '42 Berkeley
Lenox, Andrew J .................75 South •Gate ......320 Aug. 16, '43 Los Angeles
Myers, William P ....•..........73 Las Palmas .... 366 May 15, '43 Decoto
Northern, Pleasant M......... 70 Lindsay ............ 416 Dec.
8, '42 San Jose
Richardson, ]. D.................66 King Solomon 260 Dec. 28, '42 San Mateo · Co.
Russell, George McC ......... 79 Beverly Hills .. 528 Oct. 19, '42 Decoto
Sangster, Donald .......- .........86 Mendocino ...... 179 Jan.
18, '43 Decoto
Scott, Walter L...................69 BuT!ingame ... .400 Dec. 10, '42 Burlingame
Shuttleworth, Fred. Wm ... 75 S. Pasadena ..3_67 Apr. 24, '43 Alhambra
Thompson, George S........... 71 Oak Grove ......215 Aug. 11, '39 Decoto
Travelli, Joseph.......'. ............81 Oakdale ..........275 Feb.
2, '43 Decoto
Trost, John H......- .............88 Ferndale ......... .193 Mar.
1, '43 Decoto
Viles, Charlton H .................-85 Abell ................146 Mar. 29, '43 Ukiah
Warren, William ..................60 Point Firmin .. 558 Feb. 21, '43 Glendale
Yarrington, James T ...........81 University ......394 May 10, '43 Decoto

Deaths During the Year, Women 17-Average Age 1i.oo
Name
Age Lodge
No.
Died
Buried
Brink, Ollie..........................74 Pacific Grove .. 331 Apr. 19, '43 Decoto
Cassidy, Lottie......................81 Silver Gate ....296 Feb. 17, '43 Decoto
1, '43 San Mateo Co.
Clare, Jennie G................... 74 Laurel ............ 245 Mar.
Coar, Lydia E. ......................91 Alex. G. Bell .. 595 July 13, '43 Decoto
Daniels, Harriet J ............... 69 Riverbank .....-459 May 18, '43 Berkeley
Drew, Minnie........................82 Unity ................368 Dec. 26, '42 Glendale
Griffin, Mate E ................ _...75 Solano ............. .229 Sept. 21, '42 Decoto
Hughes, Annie A.................78 Lodi ................. .256 Nov. 30, '42 Lodi
Hutchinson, Sara ................81 Liberty ............299 Jan. 16, '43 Los Altos
James, Jennie L ...................80 Live Oak ........ 61 Apr. 16, '43 Decoto
Jenkins, Mary E. ................73 Durant ........... .268 May 28, '43 Oakland
Jones, Camilla T ........ _.......73 Occidental ...... 22 May 18, '43 Oakland
Kimball, Annette C...........80 Enterprise ._..... 70 Nov. 28, '42 Massachusetts
Lindsley, Luella P .............76 Morning Star .. 68 Dec. 27, '42 Stockton
Parish, Maude C................ ,70 Visalia ............128 Apr. 12, '43 Visalia
6, '42 Oakland
Ross, Agnes -¥ ..................... 73 Oak Grove ....215 Nov.
Strock, Anna G...................79 Corinthian ...... 9 May 31, '43 San Francisco

Departures During the Year
Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Dote
Bake.r, Annie ....... ,.................... May 19, '39 Sequoia ........................349 Feb. 1, '43
Bewley, John C....................... AJ.J!I". 11,'40 Lodi ···················-·········256 Feb. 23, '43
Gilbert, Thomas........................ May 20, '36 Sequoia ......................349 Mar. 30, '43
Grego, Hamilcar J •.................. Dec. 3, '42 Sun Garden ................ 530 Dec. 4, '42

601

Donations to Decoto Home
East Bay Past Matrons' Association-'-21 comforters, 25 nightgowns,
34 hospital gowns, 10 crepe gowns, 6 cushions, 5 table covers, 63 bureau
scarfs. 2,435 jars and glasses of jams and jellies, 22 cakes.
Robert S. Atkins, 150 Sutter Street, San Francisco, California-12
straw hats.
· 1~
Mrs. Erma L . Boyce, Past Matron Woodbridge Chapter No. 118, 905
W. Walnut Street, Lodi, California. District: Woodbridge, Lodi, Homo,
Elk Grove Chapters-"The 38ers."-Mary Warmer's Girls. A. number of
dish towels.
·
Jacob J. Bazzel, 2624 Foothill Boulevard, Oakland California-Three
packages literature magazines.
Acantha Chapter No. 249, 0. E. S.-Forty-six small scarfs, 9 large
scarfs, 11 squares, 19 hospital gowns, 5 jig-saw puzzles.
Order of Rainbow for Girls, San Jose Assembly No. 5-350 packages
of chocolate candy for Christmas.
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243, Hayward, California-Mr. Harry Bradford,
30 pounds of candy.
·
Mr. Otto W. Brooks, Fruitvale-Fifty miscellaneous magazines.
Acanthus Club, 840 Park Way, El Cerrito, California-Nine scarfs.
Mr. Luke P. Liuzza, San Francisco, California-One box of magazines.
Mrs. J. L. Driscoll, 215 Hampel Street, Oakland, California-Three
crepe nightgowns.
1234 Tenth Avenue, San Francisco, California-Five men's hats.
Argonaut, San Francisco, California, published weekly-One year's
subscription.
Mr. Bouton, Past Master Occidental Lodge No. 22-Two pairs of
men's sqoes.
Mr. Andrew Burke, San Francisco, California-Large package miscellaneous magazines.
Mr. Robert S. Peters and Mr. John H. von Staden of Occidental Lodge
No. 22, San Francisco, California-Several large packages of miscellaneous
magazines.
Mr. Charles Gunther, 917 Tracy Avenue, Kansas City, Missouri-One
year's subscription to Weekly Unity, Daily Word and Unity.
Mrs. F. B. Longley, 3623 Grand Avenue, Oakland, California-Five
shirts, 5 pairs of pajamas, 1 cotton union suit, collars and neckties.
Mr. K. E. King, Box 549, Niles, California-Large package maga~ines.
Mr. Fred R. Robinson, Past Master Mission Lodge No. 169, San
Francisco, California-Two !luit cases, 1 box of ladies' clothes.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mrs. W . W. Closson, 32 Crocker Avenue, Piedmont, CaliforniaLarge lot of Collier's, Life anrl Time magazines.
Mr. Al \Vhiting, 1219 106th A venue, Oakland, California.:.._Large package miscellaneous magazines.
Hubbard and Company, 1250 45th Street, Emeryville, California-A
large number of Life and Esquire magazines.
Mrs. John E. Dare, 490 Geary Street, San Francisco, California-One
large U. S. bunting flag, 5xl0 feet.
Mr. J. \Nalter Proctor, Master, Sequoia Lodge No. 349, Oakland,
California-One large package miscellaneous magazines.
Mrs. Sophie A. M. Wade, 1304 Esplanade, Redondo Beach, CaliforniaOne tuxedo dress suit, 1 smoking jacket, 7 shirts, 4 ties, 7 pairs of socks,
1 pair of shoes, comb and brush set, 2 scarfs, 1 leather wallet, 1 safety
tie pin and safety chain.

December 13, 1942-Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
Church Services.
December 20, 1942-Christmas Cantata "The }..f usic of Christmas" by
Ira B. Wilson. Rev. W. V. Immel, Hayward Christian Church.
December 25, 1942-Christmas Carols in main dining room. Disposition of presents.
December 27, 1942-Church Services. Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Hayward Presbyterian Church.
December 31, 1942-New Year's Eve. Entertainment, dancing and
refreshments.
January 3, 1943-Decoto Christian Endeavor, Miss Lamb. Speaker:
Rev. Hoyt Hamilton, Ashland Presbyterian Church.
January 10, 1943-Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
January 17, 1943--Church Services. Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Hayward
Presbyterian Church.
January 24, 1943-Rev. Greybiel of ~iles Congregational Church.
January 31, 1943---Rev. H. R. Jescke, Congregational Church of San
Bruno, California.
February 7, 1943-Decoto Christian Endeavor Society, Miss Lamb.
Speaker: Rev. Hoyt Hamilton of Ashland Presbyterian Church.
February 14, 1943-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church.
February 22, 1943-Washington's Birthday. Entertainment and refreshments.
February 28, 1943-Church Services. Rev. W. V. Immel, Christian
Church, Hayward, California.
· March 7, 1943-Decoto Christian Endeavor Society, Miss Lamb.
Speaker: Mr. Ray· Alcorn of Castro Valley, California.
March 14, 1943-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church.
March 17, 1943-Entertainment. Miss Peggy Engel, soloist.
March 21, 1943-Church Services. Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Hayward
Presbyterian Church.
March 28, 1943-Church Services. Rev. ·w. V. Immel, Christian
Church, Hayward, California.
April 4, 1943-Decoto Christian Endeavor Society, Miss Lamb.
Speaker: Rev. Hoyt Hamilton, Ashland Presbyterian Church.
April 11, 1943-Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
April 18, 1943-Rev. W. V. Immel, First Christian .Church, Hayward,
California. Palm Sunday Services and Easter Cantata. The Glorious
Galilean by Ira Wilson.
April 25, 1943-Easter Services. Rev. W. V. Immel, First Christian
Church, Hayward, California.
May 2, 1943-·Decoto Christian Endeavor, Miss Lamb. Speaker: Mr.
Ray Alcorn.
May 9, 1943-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
May 9, 1943-San Mateo Lodge No. 226. Stage play.
May 16, 1943_..:_Church Services. Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Hayward
Presbyterian Church.

602

Visitations to Decoto Home
September 6, 1942-Decoto Christian Endeavor Society, Miss Alice
Lamb. Dr. Henry McCall of Mt. Eden Presbyterian Church, Speaker.
September 18, 1942-Fremont Lodge No. 497. Entertainment and
dancing.
September 19, 1942-Alameda Officers' Club. Entertainment.
September 20, 1942-Church Services. Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Hayward Presbyterian Church.
September 20, 1942-Lodges of the 36th Masonic District: Brooklyn
Lodge No. 225, Plymouth Lodge No. 560, Standard Lodge No. 440,
Fellowship Lodge No. 480, Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568. Entertainment.
September 27, 1942-Golden Rod Chapter No. 180, 0. E. S. Entertainment.
September 28, 1942-The Great Austine. Sleight-of-hand entertainment.
October 1, 1942-Rotary Club, Hayward. Barbecue.
October 4, 1942-Church Services. Rev. Hoyt Hamilton, Ashland
Presbyterian Church.
October 11, 1942-Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
October 20, 1942-Entertainment. Anne Ashley, soloist.
October 24, 1942-36th Masonic District. Conferred 2nd Degree.
October 26, 1942-Church Services. Rev. T. C. Harris, Trinity•Episcopal Church, Hay:ward.
October 31, 1942-Entertainment, dancing and masquerade.
November 1, 1942-Decoto Christian Endeavor Society, Miss Lamb.
Mr. Ray Alcorn, speaker·. Castro Valley, California.
November 8, 1942-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church.
November 15, 1942-Church Services. Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Hayward Presbyterian Church.
November 29, 1942-Rev. H. R. Jeschke, San Bruno Congregational
Church. Church Services.
December 6, 1942-Decoto Christian Endeavor Society, Miss Lamb.
Speaker: Rev. Hoyt Hamilton, Ashland Presbyterian Church.

603

604

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE

May 16, 1943-Seapor"t Lodge. No. 550, San Francisco. Conferred 3rd
Degree in Temple.
May 23, 1943--Church Services. Rev. Greybiel of the Niles Congregational Church.
June 6, 1943-Decoto Christian Endeavor, Miss Lamb. Speaker: Mr.
Hoyt Hamilton, Ashland Presbyterian Church.
June 13, 1943-Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church.
June 20, 1943-Church Services. Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Hayward
Presbyterian Church.
June 27, 1943-Church Services. Rev. W. V. Immel, Hayward
Christian Church.
July 3, 1943-Entertainment. Patriotic living pictures by members of
the Home.
July 4, 1943--Church Services. Rev. J. W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
July 4, 1943-Barbecue for residents of the Home.
July 11, 1943-Church Services. Rev. T. C. Harris, Hayward Episcopal
Church.
July 18, 1943-Church Services. Rev.]. W. Winkley, Hayward Methodist Church.
July 25, 1943--Church Services. Rev. Greybiel of the Niles Congregational Church.
August 1, 1943-Church Services. Dr. Godfrey Matthews, Hayward
Congregational Church.
August 8, 1943-Church Services. Rev. ]. W. Winkley, Hayward
Methodist Church.
August 8, 1943-East Bay ~asters' and Wardens' Association. Barbecue and entertainment.
August 15, 1943--Church Services. Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Hayward
Presbyterian Church.
August 21, 1943-Annual visit of the officers and members of the
East Bay Past Matrons' Association, East Bay Cities, accompanied by
the Worthy Grand Matron and Worthy Grand Patron, 0. E. S.
August 22, 1943-Church Services. Rev. W. V. Immel, Hayward
Christian Church.
August 29, 194~-Rev. Hoyt Hamilton, Ashland Presbyterian Church.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations for 1942, Decoto Home
No.
Lodge
Amt.
No.
Lodge
Amt.
20 Washington ........................ 10.00
1 California ..........................$20.00
21 Hawaiian ............................ 25.00
3 Tehama ...............:.............. 10.00
22 Occidental .......................... 20.00
8 Tuolumne .....................-..... 2.50
23 Madison .............................. 5.00
9 Corinthian .......................... 10.00
26 El Dorado .......................... 5.00
10 San Jose .............................. 5.00
27 Trinity ................................ 5.00
12 Yount _............................... 2.50
32 Gold Hill ............................ 5.00
13 Nevada................................ 2.50
35 San Diego .......................... 25.00
16 Eureka ................................ 1.25
37 Howard .............................. 10.00
17 La Parfaite Union .......... 2.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.
Lodge
Amt.
38 Santa Cruz ........................ 10.00
40 Sacramento ........................ 10.00
41 Martinez ............................ 22.29
42 Los Angeles ...................... 10.00
43 Hiram .................................. 5.00
44 Mount Moriah .................. 5.00
45 Crescent ............._............... 5.00
46 Texas .................................. 2.50
51 Illinoistown .................... 5.00
57 Santa Rosa .....:.................. 7.50
58 Union .................................. 12.50
60 Plumas ................................ 2.50
61 Live Oak ............................ 25.00
64 Natoma ···············-············· 5.00
65 Amador .............................. 5.00
68 Morning Star .................... 10.00
70 Enterprise .......................... 5.00
78 Calaveras ............................ 10 .00
80 Ione ._................................... 2.50
81 Yolo .................................... 2.50
84 Vesper ................................ 5.00
87 Naval .................................. 15.00
93 St. Helena ..............._......... 5.00
99 Yosemite ............................ 5.00
101 Clay ..........................,......... 10.00
106 Arcata .................................. 5.00
110 Pai aro ................................ 10.00
111 Chico .................................. 10.00
113 Eden .................................... 4.00
117 Cpncord .............................. 5.00
120 Fidelity .............................. 25.00
122 Alamo .................................. 5.00
126 Lafayette ............................ 5.00
127 Hermann ............................ 25.00
128 Visalia ................................ 10.00
131 Woodbridge........................ 2.50
132 Sincerity ............................ 5.00
134 Vacaville ............................ 5.00
136 Pacific ................................ 20.00
139 Crockett ....,................_....... 10.00
140 Curtis .................................. 5.00
143 Franklin ............................ 5.00
144 Oriental .............................. 25.00
150 Molino ·······-······-··············· 5.00
156 Woodland .......................... 5.00
166 Excelsior ............................ 12.50
167 Alameda .............................. 10.00
168 Redwood City .................. 10.00
169 Mission ···········-··----·········-- 12.SO
175 Antioch .............................. 5.00
178 Phoenix .............................. 10.00
180 Petaluma ·············-············· 5.00
181 Russian River .................... 2.50
183 Oear Lake ........................ 5.00
188 Oakland .............................. 10.00
191 Marin ·····························-··· 12.50

605

No.
Lodge
Ami.
192 Santa Barbara .................. 10.00
193 Ferndale .............................. 5.00
195 Buckeye ·············-···--········- 5.00
196 San Simeon ...................... 10.00
199 Hartley .............................. 5.00
200 Truckee .............................. 5.00
201 Silveyville .......................... 10.00
203 Confidence .......................... 2.50
204 Salinas ................................ 5.00
209 King David's .................... 5.00
210 Friendship .......................... 10.00
211 San Benito ........................ 5.00
212 So. San Francisco.............. 10.00
216 Doric .................................. 12.50
217 Monterey ............................ 5.00
218 Mosaic ................................ 5.00
219 Speranza Italiana .............. 5.00
220 Downey .............................. 10.00
222 Roseville ..................._....... 5.00
224 Bakersfield ........................ 12.50
225 Brooklyn ............................ 10.00
226 San Mateo .......................... 10.00
240 Colusa ·······--··············-······· 5.00
241 Santa Ana .......................... 10.00
245 Laurel ................................ 5.00
246 Pomona .............................. 10.00
247 Fresno ................................ 12.50
253 Landmark ·-······--··············· 5.00
256 Lodi .................................... 10.00
258 Penrhyn ............................ 2.50
259 Evergreen ........................... 12.50
261 Tuscan ................................ 10.00
264 Hesperian .......................... 10.00
265 Orland ................................ 7.50
268 Durant ··--····--······-··--··--····· 5.00
269 Olive Branch .................... 5.00
272 Pasadena ............................ 25 .00
277 Selma .................................. 5.00
278 So. California .................... 10.00
279 Hanford .............................. 10.00
280 Madera ................................ 5.00
282 Calayomi ·······-··················· 5.00
283 South West ........................ 10.00
285 San Miguel ........................ 10.00
286 Paso Robles ........................ 5.00
289 Elsinore .............................. 5.00
290 East Gate ............................ 37.00
292 Los Gatos .......................... 10.00
296 Silver Gate ........................ 10.00
297 Dunsmuir ............................ 10.00
299 Liberty ...............•................ 10.00
301 Ontario .............................. 5:oo
305 Azusa .................................. 5.00
306 Ashlar ................................ 5.00
307 Santa Monica .................... 5.00
313 Tehachapi ·-······················· 15.00

606

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Lodge
Amt.
315 Norwalk ............................ 5.00
317 Fallbrook ............................ 5.00
319 Hollenbeck ........................ 5.00
321 Alisa! .................................. 5.00
324 Corona ·······-··· ................ :... 10.00
327 Long Beach ...................... 20.00
328 Redondo ............................ 10.00
331 Pacific Grove .................... 10.00
332 San Pedro .......................... 5.00
336 Fruitvale ............................ 5.00
337 Carquinez .......................... 15.00
338 San Jacinto ........................ 5.00
341 Oxnard ................................ 10.00
343 San Fernando .................... 10.00
344 Starr King ........................ 25.00
346 Palo Alto ............................ 5.00
347 McKinl~y .......................... 5.00
348 San Bernardino ................ 10.00
349 Sequoia .............................. 10.00
351 Palestine ···············-··········· 5.00
353 Pinole .................................. 5.00
355 Hollywood ........................ 5.00
356 Mill Valley ........................ 25.00
360 San Francisco .................. 12.50
363 Berkeley ............................ 10.00
366 Las Palmas ........................ 5.00
367 South Pasadena ................ 10.00
369 Ocean Park ...................... 5.00
370 Amity ................................... 10.00
371 le .Progres de L'Oceanie 15.00
374 Jewel .................................. 2.50
375 Richmond .......................... 12.50
376 Francis Drake ........•......... 5.00
377 Artesia ................................ 5.00
379 Fillmore ........ ,..................... 10.00
382 Highland Park ................ 5.00
384 El Centro ........................ 10.00
385 Dinuba .............................. 10.00
387 Coalinga .............................. 10.00
388 Parnassus .......................... 10.00
389 Palos Verdes ·-··················· 25.00
393 Balder ................................ 12.50
396 Apollo .................................. 10.00
400 Burlingame .............. -········ 10.00
401 Bay View .......................... 20.00
403 Yerba Buena ..................... 7.00
498 Sierra Madre .................... 10.00
409 Honolulu ............................ 25.00
410 Charter Rock .................... 10.00
411 Perris .................................. 5.00
415 Silver Trowel ................... 5.00
418 Elysian ................................ 12.50
426 Midway .............................. 5.00
431 Alpha .................................. 5.00
433 Hammonton ···············-······· 25.00
434 . Maricopa ............................ 5:oo

No.
435
440
441
442
449
458
460
461
463
466
467

468
477
479

483
486
487

488
489
491
493
494
497
500
503
507
510

511
513
514
516
518
521
524
525
526
530
531
541
543
545
546
550
551
552
555
558
561
• 575
576
580
581
590
593
594
595

Lodge
Amt.
Fairmount .......................... 10.00
Standard ............................ 5.00
Coronado ·······-·--················ 5.00
Blackmer ............................ 10.00
Park ·"'···············"-·············'·· 5.00
Henry S. 01"me ................ 5.00
Mount Oso ........................ 10.00
Argonaut ............................ 10.00
Morgan Hill ...................... 5.00
Libertas .............: ..........\..... 5..00
Culver City ........................ 10.00
Rockridge .......................... 5.00
Temblor ._........................... 5.00
Golden Rule ...................... 5.00
Bell ...................................... 2.50
Caledonia ...........................: 5.00
Vallejo ................................ 10.00
Patterson ·······-··················· 5.00
East Bay ............................ .5.00
Woodstock.......................... 5.00
Atascadero ........................ 5.00
Acorn .............................. :.... 10.00
Fremont .............................. 5.00
Roosevelt ............................ z.'50
Point .................................... 2.50
El Segundo ·············-········· 15.00
Cupertino .............................. 2.50
Sunnyvale .......................... 10.00
Cahuenga ............................ 7.50
Argonne ..................... _....... 10.00
Taft ...................................... 5.00
La Jolla ............................ 25.00
Piedmont ............................ 20.00
Catalina Island .................. 3.50
George Washington ........ 5.00
Bay City ............................ 10.00
Sun Garden ........................ 10.00
Alexandria ........................ 2.50
Henry Morse Stephens .. 5.00
Signal .....................~ ............ 10..00
Jonathan ............................ 5.00
San Gabriel ........................ 5.00
Seaport .............................. 5.00
Lakeshore .......................... 5.00
Semper Virens .................. 5.00
White Pine ...................... 10.00
Point Firmin ...................... 10.00
East San Diego ................ 5.00
Fort Crook ........................ 5.00 ·
El Cajon Valley ................ 5.00
Santa Maria ...................... 2.50
Security .............................. 5.00
Compass .............................. 5.00
All States .......................... 10.00
Service .......................:........ 10.00
Alexander Graham Bell 5.00

No.
596
603
604
620
625
626
632
633
634
635
637
638
640
645
648
661
665
667
668
669
673
675
676
680
·681
682

Lodge
Amt.
Guardian ............................ 2.50
Dimond .............................. 5.00
Jubilee ................................ 5.00
Point Loma ...................... 5.00
Angeles Mesa ·······-···· .. ····· 5.00
Chula Vista ........................ 7.00
Normal Heights .............. 5.00
Poinsettia .......................... 10.00 ·
Victorville .......................... 5.00
Riverside ............................. 5.00
Palisades ............................ 5.00
Indian Rock·...................... 5.00
Veritas ................................ 2.50
A. F. E. Irwin ................ 5.00
Damascus .........'............... 5.00
Malta ···········'····················-- 5.00
Kaweah .............................. 5.00
Meridian ............................ 5.00
San Gorgonio .................... 10.00
John P. Jarman ................ 5.00
Far West............................ 5.00
Modesto .............................. 5.00
Willow Glen ..................... 2.50
Carmel ................................ 5.00
Dos Palos .......................... 2.50
Barstow ............................... 5.00

Amt.
39th District Officers' Association ........................................$ 5.00
70th and 71st District Officers'
Association ...............,.............. 12.50
88th District Officers'
Association .............................. 10.00
Lodges of Perfection
Lodge
No. Amt.
California .......................... 10 $12.50
Oakland .............................. 2 25.00
Peninsula ............................ 14 10.00
Sacramento ........................ 4 12.50
San Francisco .................. 1 12.50
Commanderies
Commandery
. No. Amt.
Auburn .....,..................... ,.... 52 $ 1.25
Bakersfield ........................ 39
5.00
California .......................... 1 12.50
Calvary .............................. 62 10.00
Chico .................................. 12
5.00
Colusa .................................. 24
5.00
Eureka ................................ 35
5.00
Fresno ................................. 29
2.50
Golden West ...................... 43
5.00
Mt. Olivet .......................... 20
2.50
Naval .................................. 19
5.00

Commandery
No.
Nevada ................................ 6
Oakland .............................. 11
Oroville .............................. 5
f'acific ................................ 3
Pasadena ·············-············· 31
Sacramento ........................ 2
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
San Pedro ..............•.......... 60
Santa Cruz ........................ 44
Santa Rosa ......................... 14
Southern California .········ 37
Ukiah .................................. 33
Woodland .......................... 21

607

Amt.
2.50
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
2.50
7.50
5.00
5.00
5.00

Councils, R. & S. M.
C01mcil
No. Amt.
California .......................... 2 $ 2.50
Gateway .............................. 13
1.25
Pomona .............................. 21
5.00
Valley .................................. 27
5.00
Chapters, R. A. M.

Chapter
No. Amt.
Coalinga ............................ 114 $ 5.00
Colusa .................................. 60
5.00
Crown ................................ 72
5.00
Delta .................................... 27
1.25
Ferndale .............................. 78
5.00
Franklin .............................. 20
7.50
Hanford .............................. 74 25.00
Humboldt .......................... 52
2.50
Keystone ............................ 56
5.00
Los Angeles ...................... 33
5.00
Marin ...................... :........... 2
5.00
Martinez .............................. 31
5.00
Naval .................................. 35
10.00
Ontario .............................. 105
2.50
Petaluma ..................... :....... 22 · 2.50
Pomona .............................. 76
5.00
Redondo ..................:........... 101
5.00
San Luis ............................ 62
2.50
Santa Cruz ._ ..................... 38
3.00
Santa Monica Bay ............ 97
1.25
Siloam ................................ 37
5.00
Sonora ................................ 2
2.50
5.00
St. Helena ·······-················· 63
Chapters, 0. E. S.
Chapter
No. Amt.
Mercedes ............................ 126 $10.00
Mill Valley ........................219 10.00
Mira Monte ....................... .141
5.00
San Rafael ........................ 215
10.00

608

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Miscellaneous

Amt.
Alameda Golf Committee ........$ 6.00
Artmann, Fritz A. ...................... 2.00
Briley, Arno ................................ 10.00
Crisman, Mrs. Ernaline ............ 13.32
Del Castillo, T. M..................... 5.00
Bevore, C. M. .............................. 3.00
Fisher, H.J.·············- ················· ·10.00
Hilzinger, Henry·-····················· 1.00
Hufman, Frank M. .................... 5.00
Lee, Russell .................................. 5.00
McCann, L. M. .......................... · 5.00

Amt.
Mosher, Austin .......................... . .50
Norton, Melville ........................ 5.00
Pederson, Mr. and Mrs. Karl 12.50
Silver, Raymond Ford .............• 5.00
Spears, James H ....................... 10.00
Stevenson; E. H. ........................ 12.50
Stocker, Leslie W. .................... 5.00
Thomure, Arthur J. .................. 5.00
Verkuyl, Eleanor L................... 5.00
Wallace, Dr. ·-··························· 10..00
Wright, Jr., R. M .........,.............. 12.50

Report of the Superintendent-Covina Home
To the Trustees of the Masonic Hom es of California:
In my report of a year ago, I said: "The last year in the Covina Home
has been marked by decreasing enrollment, many changes in the personnel of our employed staff, necessity to increase salaries, rise in p'r ices
of all commodities, inevitable increase in our per capita cost of operation."
All the conditions indicated in the paragraph above have continued
during the year 1942-43.
Enrollment and Expense for Past Year-Our enrollment as of Ju1y
31st; 1943, was 82 children; one year earlier the enrollment was 99. In
other words, our number of children has decreased 17 per cent during the
past year.
Comparison of our expense for "Care of Children" for the two years
in shown in the following table:
1943
1942
$23,543
Food ................................................................................$26,312
Other Subsistence Expense...................................... 7,081
6,606
2,947
Clothing .......................................................,.................. 3,181
2,488
Laundry .......................................................................... 2,735
11,232
Dormitories .................................................................... 14,181
6,348
Hospital and Health.................................................... 7,221
1,488
General Expense, Children........................................ 1,852
6,011
Engineer's Department................................................ 6,419
3,505
Buildings, Repairs and Maintenance...................... 6,097
1,946
Care of Grounds.......................................................... 1,972
9,418
General Expense, Plant...................................,.......... 8,138
Total Care of Children........................................$85,189

$75,532

Operating expense for the year was 11.3 per cent less than for the year
before.
Adjustment to Decreasing Enrollment-We have adjusted our operation to decreasing enrollment by vacating one and one-half to our four
residence buildings for children; or three-eighths of our dormitory building space. We have vacated one of our two dining rooms. We have

609

reduced our staff of employees by one secretary, three houseparents, one
dining room woman, and one seamstress.
Certain services and maintenance cannot be reduced in proportion to
the reduction of the number of children in our· care. T h e same acreage
of grounds, and as many square feet of buildings, must continue to be
cared for and kept in order; the engineer's department and the laundry
must be kept going with the same number of employees; the farm work
must go. on; the hospital must be kept staffed and ready to serve. U n der
these conditions per capita figures have little significance.
Employees--The past year has been one of unprecedented difficulty
in obtaining and holding satisfactory epiployees, especially men. At the
present time we have only three men under sixty years old. During th e
summer vacation our children have had behavior difficulties which would
not have occurred if we had been able to secure the recreational leadership
which they needed, and which we tried without success to employ.
Mechanical Work and Repairs--Owing to limitations of help and supplies, this type of work has been kept at a minimum. W e have, however,
painted the exterior wood work on most of the buildings in order to
prevent weather, damage.
Inspection by the Los Angeles County Fire Prevention department
called for quite a program of improvement in electrical wiring, which had
to be done before our operating license could be renewed; and, was done.
Our mechanical plant is on the whole in good condition now.
Rationing-The amount of difficulty in connection with the rationing
of food, shoes and gasoline, has been on the whole less than might have
been exp~cted. Mrs. Flynn, head of our subsistence department, has
bought for this department and done it well. Food cost was 31 per cent
of our operating cost for each of the last two years. In 1943 food cost
per meal was 30 per cent higher than in 1941 ; for last two months has
averaged 16.7c per meal.
To meet present conditions we planted nearly two acres in garden
vegetables, which have yielded well and have kept us sufficiently supplied.
A considerable quantity of vegetables have been canned. Our canning
operations have been limited by inability to get the desired amount of jars.
Physical Care of Children-Health of the children during the year
has been excellent, with no case of serious illness .. In view of the reduced
availability of medical service, the competent preventive work of our
nurse has taken on new importance. T h e daily average number of patients
in the hospLtal during the year has been only 2.25.
Donations, Visitations and Entertainments--Appended herewith is a
list of donations, visitations and entertainments. During th e past year the
number of visitors to the Home has been curtailed by reason of prevailing
conditions in transportation. Considering current limitations of travel, the
numb~r of visitors has been surprising and gratifying.
We wish to acknowledge again the continued special interest of Mount
Olive Lodge No. 506, as indicated by their maintenance of the Mount
Olive Lodge Recreation Fund, from which we draw from time to time
as needed for special recreational purposes. Amollg the nice things which

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

this Lodge has done for us was to bring to us on one memorable occasion
Gloria Jean of the motion pictures, a thrilling event for our children.

A strong and real basis of religious inculcation is found in the religious
foundation of Masonry. Being children of Masons, our boys and girls
inherit a respect for Masonry and its ideals. They learn that the Home
itself 'is a concrete expression of those ideals, that the Masons founded
and support this Home voluntarily, as an expression of their ethical and
religious principles. They learn that the letter "G" symbolizes · the Diety
as the central thing in Masonry. They have considerable personal contact
with Masons and get to know the kind of people they are. The existence
of Masonry as the children witness its expression here is an impressive
religious influence in their lives.

610

It has been the custom of Monrovia Lodge No. 308 for many years
to take our children to Monrovia for a Christmas party. This year it
was impossible to make the trip, but the Lodge put the party on at the
Home, with all its unusual features, including a gift for every child.
Our Christmas observance was also greatly aided by the continuance,
as in many years past, of the custom of a contribution for a present for
every child by the Westerners Club, of the Twentieth Century-Fox
Studios.
A good friend of the Home, Brother Carl Peters, has contrbuted from
time to time throughout the year generous lots of cartons of candy bars,
which were very welcome in view of the present curtailment of the candy
supply.
We had several children who were in need of orthodontia treatment,
which is expensive. We are indebted to the Supreme Pyramid, Ancient
Egyptian Order of Sciots, James A. Lynch, Pharaoh, for a special donation for this purpose. Another special donation for this purpose came
from Wilshire Lodge No. 445.
Wilshire Lodge also made inquiry as to what they could do in a
material way to add to the comfort of the children; and, after consideration, the refurnishing of the living room in the Girls' Building was decided upon. A committee of the Lodge was appointed under the chairmanship of Brother W. G. Lane. Brother Lane and his good wife took
a keen interest and spent much time in personal supervision of this improvement. When they had finished, the room was indeed a beautiful
addition to our facilities, and will do much through the ye~rs to add to
the happiness and elevate the tastes of the girls of the Home.
Moral and Religious Training-An inquiry recently made concerning
moral and religious training in the Home suggests the inclusion here of
some information on that subject. We do not place much reliance upon
moral instruction in the abstract. It is the concrete situations of daily
living that furnish the best opportunities for the inculcation of ethical
principles. Within the institutional group more situations arise involving
questions of right and equity than are found in a pi:ivate home. If a boy
invades the property rights of another, we have an opportunity to teach
him about honesty, with the help of the boy whose rights have been disregarded-and both are learning. Childre~ living in groups teach each
other a great deal in the processes of social contacts. Because of the
variety of their social experiences in the Home, our children go forth
better prepared than the average to deal rightly with those among whom
they are to live and worlc.
In the Home grace is said before each meal. Our smallest children
receive Sunday school instruction from their housemothers; the others
are required to attend regularly some church or Sunday school in Covina.
There they make beneficial acquaintances, by which they are broadened
and improved. We do not urge them to take on church memberships,
though in some cases they do so of their own accord.

611

Alumni in Military Service-A year ago the panel in the hallway of
the Administration Building at the Covina Home contained the names of
63 of its alumni who were in their country's service. Now this number
has been exactly doubled to 126.
Letters-Letters from alumni are coming in much greater volume than
before the war. They reflect the yearning of the young soldier for home;
we are always glad when that longing expresses itself in a letter to us.
These letters are often read to the children now in the Home, for whom
they have great interest as well as character-training value.
Due to the war, our activity in issuing newsletters to the alumni has
increased. Formerly we issued one Newsletter per year; .but because of
the great demand from those in military service we have already issued
five newsletters during 1943. We have received many expressions indicating how great a need these are filling; the one thing that soldiers overseas
seem to want above all is letters from home
·
A letter just received from Edward Bounds (Pharmacist's Mate 3/c),
in the Navy, now in the Southwest Pacific, says: "All of us kids keep in
touch with at least a few of the others, and I notice that we all seem to
say something like this 'Remember the good old carefree days in the M.
H.?' 'What do you hear from any of the Home kids?' It seems for sure
that wherever we go we always think back on the Home and kids; we
really realize how lucky we were, not only for our bringing-up but for the
friends we made."
Alumni Evaluations-We often say to the boy or girl who may express
dissatisfaction with some of our procedures or decisions, "We are not so
much concerned with what you think about this now as we are about
what you will think of it five years from now. When you are one of our
alumni, come back and advise us how to run the Home and we will listen
to you."
And we are in fact influenced by the opinions and comments of the
boys and girls and men and women who have lived here, when they come
back to see us or write to us after they have had experience in the outside
world. This is one reason why we are . so much interested in keeping in
contact with them.
We have abundant evidence that .our alumni do not feel that the regime
of the Home was too severe or too strict. They often say, "When we

612

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

were there we didn't realize what it was all about; we had to try living
in the outside world to find what the Masonic Home was. No, you
weren't too strict 'fith us; if anything, you were too easy."
We think their success after they leave .us is evidence that w~atever
indulgence we showed them did not unfit them to meet the tests of adult
life.
JOHN M. DOWNEN,
Superintendent.
Children at Covina Home, July 31, 1943
BOYS-51

Lodge
No.
Palos Verdes ......389
Garden Grove .... 586
Garden Grove .... 586
Garden Grove ....586

Town
Age
Long Beach ... .14
Garden Grove .. 11
Garden Grove .. 13
Garden Grove ..ll

Admitted
Name
Abrams, SamueL ........... Aug. 9, '41
Anderson, Ray ..................July 6, '38
Anderson, Robert............ Feb. 25, '37
Anderson, Roy.: ............... .July 6, '38
Bayer, Roy: ..................... Aug. 27, '33
Bibby, Frank .................... Dec. 20, '41
Bowen, Robert .................. .July 21, '43

Palestine .............. 351
Ocean Park ........369
Arlington ............414

Los Angeles .... 15
Ocean Park .... 12
Los Angeles .... 13

Casabian, Daniel... ........... Dec. 18, '38
Chew, William..................Jan. 22, '39

Sunset ..................352
Rio Vista ........... .208

Los Angeles .... 13
Rio Vista ........12

613

Admitted
Name
Schelling, Eugene ............ July 26, '39
Schoenfeld, Stanley........ May 19, '40
Smith, Neil Fraser ..........OcJ. 2, '42
Somervell, Monte............ Dec. 26, '42
Speziali, J ohn ..................J une 26, '36
Stewart, 'Thomas ............ Juiy 2, '43
Sweeney, Eugene............July 17, '40

Lodge
No.
South Gate ·--------·320
Olive Branch ...... 269
Lankershim .......... 542
Utopia ..................537
Hemet .................. 615
America --······-·····.475
Sunnyside ............ 577

Town
Age
Los Angeles .... 10
Tulare .............. 13
N. Hollywood 14
Los Angeles .... 13
Hemet .............. 16
Los Angeles .... 11
Los Angeles .... 15

Tait, Robert ...................... Feb. 24, '43

The Gardens ........621

Los Angeles ... .12

Walters, Richard .............. Feb. 16, '43
Webb, William ..,. ............ Sept. 24, '41
Weston, Donald ..........:.....Jan. 7, '40
Weston, Fred.................... Jan. 7, '40
Weston, James ..................Jan. 7, '40
Whitman, Philip.............. July 1, '36
Wilson, William .............. Aug. 17, '38

Kilauea ................ 330
Southern Calif ...278
J. D. · Spreckels .. 657
J. D. Spreckels .. 657
J. D. Spreckels .. 657
Hollywood ..........355
Alta Loma ..........643

Hilo, T. H ..... 12
Los Angeles .... 16
San Diego ........ 10
San Diego ........ 16
San Diego ........ 12
Hollywood ..... .16
Long Beach ... .16

GIRLS-31

Name
Admitted
Abrams, Hildred ............ June 12, '42
Bibby, Cecilia.................. Dec. 20, '41
Bottger, Eleanor ............ Mar. 3, '36
Bottger, Jewel... ............. Mar. 3, '36
Bowen, Olive Mae......... .July 21, '43
Burnham, Faye ................ June 22, '42

Lodge
No.
Palos Verdes ...... 389

Town
Age
Long Beach .... 11

Ocean Park ........ 369
Hermann .............. 127
Hermann .............. 127
Arlington ............ 414
Harding ..............584

Ocean Park .... 15
San Francisco 14
San Francisco 16
Los Angeles .... 15
Los Angeles .... 6

Casabian, Lucy................ Dec. 18, '38
Clark, Irene ...................... Nov. 29, '39
Connery,· Rose ................ Aug. 29, '35
Curd, Virginia ................ Sept. 8, '42

Sunset ..................352
Seaside ............. _... 504
Ramona ................457
Carquinez ............337

Los Angeles .... 15
Long Beach .... 14
Monterey Pk. .. 18
Crockett .......... 16

Dalmeyer, Sally Ann .... Mar. 15, '36
Dudley, Vereen.............. Mar. 4, '40

Sunrise ................ 522
Richmond ............375

Los Angeles .. 18
San Francisco 11

Hawgood, Jo Ann._ ....... Nov. 21, '42
Hawgood, Jocelyn .......... Nov. 21, '42

Crescenta Valley 652
Crescenta Valley 652

Montrose .......... 13
Montrose ......... JS

Dyer, John ...............'......... July 8, '40

Yorba Linda ...... 469

Yorba Linda .... 9

Eller, Harry-.................. May 24, '43

Meridian ..............66/

Glendale ·............ 8

Fretheim, Richard .......... Apr. 17, '39

Alta Loma ..........643

Long Beach ... .12

Hardenbrook, Donald .... Nov. 8, '38
Heyman, Harold............ Nov. 9, '39
Hill, Donald...................... Dec. 17, '39
Hopkins, PauL. ............... Aug. 31, '35
Houtz, Lawrence.............. Feb. 9, '35
Hughes, Gene....................July 4, '41

Morning Star .... 68
Point Loma ......620
Sequoia ................349
Santa Paula ....... .291
Alhambra ............ 322
Salinas ..................204

Stockton .......... 14
San Diego ........ 13
Oakland ............ 10
Santa Paula .... 15
Alhambra ........ 17
Salinas ....... :...... 12

Johnston, Calvin ..............July 1, '38
Johnston, Walter............ Sept. 4, '37
Jones, William ................ Nov. 2, '42

Lynwood ..............600
Ly~wood .............. 600
Hollenbeck ..........319

Lynwood .......... 11
Lynwood .......... 13
Los Angeles .. 11

Klahr, Marjorie.............. Apr. 27, '41

Florence .. ~ ........... 649

Los Angeles .... 13

La Voie, Audrey.............. Feb, 22, '38

Phoenix ............... .178

S. Bernardino .. 16

Klahr, Gerald .................. Apr. 27, '41
Kotsenburg, William ......June 11, '4-0

Florence ..............649
La Mesa ..............407

Los Angeles ... .14
La Mesa ........... 12

Lundquist, Frederick. ..... June 29, '38

Mt. Diablo .......... 448

Concord ........... .13

Mills, Elizabeth ...........:.. Nov. 17, '40
Munck, Adele .................. Dec-. 2, '39
Muse, Donna ....... :.......... Sept. 17, '36

Oakland ...........J3
Hollywood •..... 16
Dunsmuir •...... .14

Mascaro, Ralph ................ Feb. 19, '37
Mau, Charles .................... June 17, '35
Miller, George................ Nov. 3, '40
Mills, Kenneth ................ Nov. 17, '40

Granada ................608
Mission ............... .i69
Military Service.. 570
Live Oak .............. 61

Alhambra :...... .14
San Francisco 14
San Francisco 13
Oakland ............ 9

Offinga, Barbara............ Aug. 13, '42

Live Oak .............. 61
Hollywood ..........355
Dunsmuir ·-·········29/
Mizpah ................378

Parberry, Catherine...... Mar. 26, '31
Peterson, Jacqueline........July 22, '36
Plaster, Elizabeth .......... Aug. 23, '32

Excelsior .............. 166
Argonne .............. 514
South .Park ........ 563

San Francisco 16
San Francisco 13
Los Angeles .... 16'

Palmer, Kenneth~ ........... Aug. 10, '38
Palmer, Walter.............. Aug. 10, '38
Parker, Clarence............ Sept. 7, '36
Parker, LowelL. ............. Sept. 5, '41 .
Parker, Ronald ................ Nov. 19, '39
Pilz, 'fheodore................ May 9, '41

Alex. G. Bell ...... 595
Alex. G. Bell ....... 595
Natoma ................ 64
Lamanda Park .. 627
Lamanda Park .. 627
Alcatraz ..............244

Schoenfeld, May .......... May 19, '40
Smith, Winifred.............. Jan. 27, '39
Speziali, Pearl............... .June 26, '36
Stewart, Meredith............July 2, '43

Olive Branch ..... .269
Presidio ................ 354
Hemet ..................615
America ........•.......475

Radford, Armand R. ...... Aug. 16. '41
Rogers, Gordon ................July 9, '35

America ................475
Valley Forge ...... 587

Los Angeles .... 11
Los Angeles .... 13
Folsom City .... 17
Pasadena .......... 8
Pasadena .......... 11
Oakland ·-·······-- 9
Los Angeles .... 14
Los Angeles .... 18

Walters, Shirley.............. Feb. 16, '43
Whitaker, Patricia .......... Apr. 29, '36
Williams, Jeanette .......... June 2, '43
Williams, Suzanne.......... June 2, '43

Kilauea ······-·--·-·-·330
Henry S. Orme ..458
Ione ...................... 80
Ione ...................... 80

Tulare ··--····-·--·- 9
San Francisco 16
Hemet .............. 13
Los Angeles ---· 8
Hilo, T. H ....... 14
Los Angeles .... 13
Ione ··-·--··-········- 6
Ione .................. 8

.

(

Los Angeles .... 9

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home, July 31, 1943
Name
Lodge
No. Date Began
Aug.
1940
Connery, Dean·-------.. -----------------------Ramona -----------------------------------.457
Doblough, Ruth------------------------------Sunset ·------··-~-------------------·----···-·352
Feb.
1934
Hopkins, RoberL-------------------------Santa Paula -----·------------------···-291
Oct.
1941
Jones, Charles----·-·-··-·-----------·--------Blythe --------------····-·········-·-·······--473
Aug.
1933
Jones, Harry ..................................•Blythe ···-·····-··-······--······-········--·.473 Aug.
1933
Parke, Pauline ..... -·----·----················Tujunga ··----·---··························592
Sept.
1942
Stafford, Juliette ............................ Rising Light ............................397 March 1939
Tillmans, Benjamin .. ·----·····-···--··-·Palisades ··--·--··-····-····-··············637 Feb.
1941
Tillmans, Daniel............................ Palisades ··-··-·----·-··--·--·····-········637 Feb.
1941
Wagnon, Frank.............................. Western Star ·-------·---···----------· 2 Sept.
1942

Admitted to Covina Home August 1, 1942-July 31, 1943
BOYS-9
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Bowen, Robert ··-·-··-······-.July 21, '43 Arlington __________ __414 Los Angeles .... 13
Eller, Harry -··················May 24, '43 Meridian ··--·-··-·····667 .Glendale .......... 8
Hollenbeck ,. ________ 319 Los Angeles .... 10
Jones, William •........-..... Nov. 2, '42
Smith, Neil Fraser ........ Oct. 2, '42
Lankershim ........ 542 N. Hollywood 14
Somervell, Monte .......... Dec. 26, '42 Utopia .................. 537 Los Angeles .... 12
Stewart, Thomas ............July 2, '43
America ···-······---475 Los Angeles .... 11
Tait, Robert ............... ____ Feb. 24, '43 The Gardens ......621
Los Angeles ... .12
Walters, Richard ······------Feb. 16, '43 Kilauea ·-······---·····330 Hilo, T. H ....... li
Wilson, Robert .............. Sept. 6, '42 Craftsmen .......... 559 Los Angeles ... .16

Departed During the Year August 1, 1942-July 31, 1943
BOYS-19
Age When
Name
Admitted
Depa'l'led
Discharged

GIRLS-10
Name
Admitted
Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Bowen, Olive May ..........July 21, '43 Arlington ........... .414 Los Angeles .... 15
Curd, Virginia .............. Sept. 8, '42
Carquinez ............ 337 Crockett ···--·-·----15
Eller, Margaret .............. May 24, '43 Meridian ..............667 Glendale .......... 14
Hawgood, Jocelyn ........ Nov. 21, '42
Crescenta Valley 652 Montrose .......... 14
Hawgood, JoAnn .......... Nov. 21, '42 Crescenta Valley 652 Montrose -········13
Offinga, Barbara ...•........ Aug. 13, '42 Mizpah .................. 378 Los Angeles ____ 8
Stewart, Meredith ......... _July 2, '43 America .............. --474 Los Angeles .... 8
Walters, Shirley ............ Feb. 16, '43
Kilauea ................330 Hilo, T. H ..... 14
Williams, Jeanette ........June 2, '43 Ione ...................... 80 Ione , ............... 6
Williams, Suzanne ··------June 2, '43 lone --···················· 80 Ione .................. 8

614

~~~i~~n~r:~;~~~~-::::::::::::::~~!: ~~'. '.~~ ~u:;. ~~. ·~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~~

Brown, Robert ······-·-··--·····-·Dec. 8, '29
Chew, Donald ........................Jan. 22, '39
Geddes, Stanley ....................June 16, '39
Haines, Jonathon Ross ...... Aug. 25, '38
Linfesty, Ralph .................... Nov. 27, '40
Lord, Richard -·-····------·····-----.July 27, '29
Monroe, Preston ..................Jan. 21, '31
Munro, Donald ·-····-···-·--······Aug. 21, '36
Peterson, Kenneth ............... _July 22, '36
Smith, Arthur ........................Jan. 27, '39
Van Kirk, Richard --·-··-·--····Dec. 30, '34
Wagnon, Joseph ·-·-··············-Jan. 12, '35
Wagnon, Frank ....................Jan. 12, '35
Wagnon, William ................Jan. 12, '35
Wilson, Robert ········--·-·······-Sept. 6, '42
Wimberly, Raymond .......... Nov. 21, '37
Witherell, Frank ·-············----Ott. 8, '39

June 18, '43 ·······--·-·-············-·····-············17
June21, '43 ·-·····-····························; ......1?
Jan. 29, '43 ............................................-11
June 16, '43 ...........................................• 11
Feb. 26, '43 ····················-······-····-···········-· 8 .
June 23, '43 --~---························•·············17
Dec. 4, '42 ..........................................:.17
Aug. 12, '42 ·-·······--··-··-········--··-···-········-14
Mar. 4, '43 ·······-··-··-···-········-···············.17
Feb. 15, '43 ........................................... :~
Sept. 15, '42 ··-····---··············-··········-···--.lS
Oct. 16, '42 .................................. ,.,....... 17
Sept. 11, '42 ·······--·-·-······-··--···-····-······'·'··15
June 21, '43 ·············-··-········-····-·-······'··.16
June 19, '43 .................... ,.......................17
Aug. 4, '42 ·-··'·---··-··---·-···--··············-····•18
June 19, '43 ··················-···-·······-·--········.17

GIRLS-17
Age Whrn
Name
Admitted
Departed
Discharged
Aug. 16, '42 ........................... ;............... 16
Aldrich, Marian ··---·····--······Aug. 4, '39
Alex, Virginia ··--··---············-June 25, '37 June 20, '43............................................ 18
Alexander, Arnell .............. Mar. 24, '38 June 18, '43............................. c•••••••••••••.17
Campbell, Claire ..................July 10, '37 Jan. 29, '43............................................ 16
Campbell, Louise ..................July 10, '37 Jan. 29, '43............................................ 15
Clark, Catherine .................. Nov. 29, '39
April 26, '43....................................... _,_.17
Clinton, Betty Jane .......•.... Nov. 7, '36 June 25, '43............................................ 16
Eller, Margaret .................... May 24, '43
June 19, '43.................- ......................... 14
Johnston, Marybelle .......... Sept. 4, '37
June 18, '43........................................c••• 17
Kotsenburg, Gertrude ...... :.June 11, '40 June 27, '43.................,......................... .17
McCallum, Margaret .......... Mar. 31, '35
June 28, '43............................................17
Munro, Jean .......................... Aug. 21, '36 Aug. 12, '42 ........................................... 16
Parbery, Phyllis .................. Mar. 26, '31
June 18, '43. ...........................................17
Parke, Pauline .................... Mar. 23, '41
Sept. 17, '42............................................ 9
Roach, Marian ............ :....... Aug. 24, '40
3, '42 ......,.................................... 17
Oct.
Satterburg, Lorraine ·--·-····Sept. 6, '40 June 28, '43............................................ 17
Taylor, Marilyn .................. Sept. 17, '39 July
2, '43. ........ _.................................12

615

Donations to Masonic Home at Covina
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535-Painting of flag pole.
Apffe! Co., Edward A.-Ten pounds cocoa.
Aronson, Stanley-One set of equipment for chemical gardening.
Baker, Mr. (General Foods)-214 cases foodstuffs.
Barker Brothers--One lot remnants of linen.
Baruth, Caroline-$7.50 for Treat Fund.
Baum, Serf-One lot books.
Bean, Mrs. George--One lot clothing.
Beck, C. W.-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Belvedere Chapter 0. E. S. No. 402-0ne lot cookies and preserves.
Beverly Management Corporation, various clients-$2,100.00.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-0ne lot dates.
Colusa County Assembly, Order of Rainbow Girls-One lot Christmas
gifts.
Dudley, Daisy-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
Elliott, Mr. and Mrs. S. H.-One lot tennis balls.
El Segundo Lodge No. 507-0ne lot jams and jellies.
Fallbrook 0. E. S. No. 390, Emera Club-One quilt.
Fisher, Edward P. and other members of Alexander Hamilton Lodge
No. 535-0ne American flag.
Forbes, Mr. and Mrs. Wm.-One lot books.
Game Warden, San Dimas-Carcass one deer.
Garvanza Lodge No. 492-0ne lot jams and jellies.
Gar.vanza Chapter 0. E. S.-One lot jams and jellies.

616

~lWCEEDINGS

OF THE

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

Golden State Chapter 0. E. S., Social Club-One lot jams and jellies.
Goodwin, Robert-Barber service.
Gordon, Albert-One picture viewer.
Griffin, R. C.-One lot books.
Gunther, H. W.-Two books of comic pictures.
Ham, Mrs. Fred ].-One volume "Boy Scout Year Book."
Hawgood, Harold C.-Two lots canned goods; one-half gallo~ peanut
oil.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662-0ne lot jelly.
Hine, Mrs. L. D.-$10.00 for Treat Fund.
· .
Hokanson, W. 0 . (of Huntington Lodge)-One subscription to Life.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-Four bedspreads, 4 pair curtains, 1 lot
·canned fruit.
Jasmine Chapter 0 . E . S.-One lot candy.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 4-0ne lot jams and jellies, 1 lot canned
goods.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 58-$15.00 for refurnishings.
Jordan, C. R., and Mills, H . G., State Game Dept.-Carcasses two deer.
Junior Boy Scout Troop No. 26, Den No. 4-Six scrap books.
Keim, C. L.-U. S. Forest Service- Carcass one deer.
Laughjahr, C. H .-One lot cancelled stamps.
La Vezzi, Charles H .-100 pounds potatoes.
·
Long Beach Lodge No. 327, (member of) $10.00 in war savings stamps
for prize.
Loyalty Lodge No. 529-0ne lot nuts and preserved fruit.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600-0ne lot jams and jellies, 1 lot cookies and
candy.
McN all, 0 . R.--500 stereoscopic pictures, 1 stereoscope.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-0ne lot marmalade and jelly.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308- 0ne lot Christmas presents.
Morgan, Mn\. George A.--One lot toy animals and scrap books.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506-Qne lot Christmas toys and games.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506, Recreation Fund-$69.43.
Mowder, Mrs. Karolyne-One lot ·dresser and chair scarfs.
Norton, Fred Lorenzo-$2.00 for Treat Fund.
Nuckolls, L. W .-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Officers Association, 88th Masonic District- One lot jams and jellies.
Officers Association, 90th .Masonic District--$11.80 for Treat Fund.
. Officers Association, 93rd Masonic District-$6.00 for Treat Fund.
Officers Association; 96th Masonic District-$66.85 for refurnishings.
Offinga, Tjitze W., Estate-One lot bakers' supplies, 1 lot books, 1 doll
carriage.
Ogier, W. W . -One lot greeting cards.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272- 0ne lot magazines and games.
Peters, Carl M. -950 pounds candy.
Post, Fred C.-One lot calendar pictures.
Purrucker, R. B.-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Pye, Mrs. A. W.-One box clothing.

.

617

Randolph, G. T .-$5.00 for Treat F und.
Redlands Lodge No. 300-Two reading lamps.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397·- 100 25c War Saving Stam ps.
Santa Monica Chapter 0. E. S.-One lot jams and jellies.
Sciots Supreme Pyramid-$100.00 for orthodontia treatments.
Shoemaker, M. and Mrs. 0 . H .-One lot groceries.
Smale, Captain R.udolph-One book: "There Go the Ships."
Smale, Mrs. Rudolph-One lot music.
Smith, Col. Dan Morgan-O ne box limes.
Smith, ]. Dustin-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
South Park Lodge No. 563-0ne lot magazines.
Stoddard, Bert-200 pounds peanuts.
Strohm, Mr. and Mrs. W . T .- Six gallons jelly.
Sun Garden Lodge No. 530-200 pounds raisins . .
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577-0ne lot fruit and jelly.
Temple City 0. E. S.-One lot jams and jellies.
Terminal Refrigerating Co.-One case eggs.
Ward, Dean A.-Carcass one deer.
\Veber, Dale-Sixty pounds fruit cake.
Weiss, Mrs. Herbert-One lot clothing .
.Westerners Club-$1.50 per child for Christmas present s.
Wilshire Lodge No. 445:._c omplete r efurnishing and redecoration of
living ..room, Senior Girls' Building ..
Wilshire Lodge No. 445, member, anonymous-$300.00 for ~rthodontia
treatments.
Visitations to Covina Home
September, 1942 :
20-Arcadia Lodge No. 547.
27-V ermont Square Lodge No. 515.
October, 1942:
4-Belvedere Chapter 0. E . S. No. 402.
25-0fficers Association, Masonic 88th District.
November, 1942:
15-Santa Monica Bay District Officers Assn. Breakfast.
15-:-Santa Monica Chapter 0. E. S. Breakfast.
December, 1942:
30-Garvanza Lodge No. 492.
30-Garvanza Chapter 0 . E. S .
January, 1943:
31-Wilshire L odge No. 445.
April, 1943 :
29-Temple City Chapter 0. E. S.
May, 1943 :
4-Golden State Chapter 0. E. S.
9-South P ark L odge No. 563.
9-Sunnyside Lodge No. 577.
16-,.Highland Park Lodge No. 382.
23-Moneta L odg e No. 405.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

618

No.

June, 1943:
20-James Madison Lodge No. 572.
27-Lynwood Lodge No. 600.
Entertainment
August, 1942:
19-Taylor, Ronald-Moving pictures of western scenery.
September, 1942:
20-Arcadia Lodge No. 547--Musical program.
October, 1942:
25-0fficers

Association,

88th

Masonic .Distri.ct _:... Entertainment

program.
November, 1942:
22-America Lodge No. 475-Pictures and lecture on Java.
December, 1942:
23-Monrovia Lodge No. 308-Annual Christmas party.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations for 1942, Covina Home
Lodge
Amt.
No. California
..........................$20.00
1

3 Tehama .............................. 10.00
8 Tuolomne .......................... 2.50
9 Corinthian .......................... 10.00
10 San Jose ·················-········· 5.00
12 Yount .................................. 2.50
13 ·Nevada .............................. 2.50
14

16

~~r:e~: :::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::: 1~:~

17 La Parfaite Union .......... 2.50
20 Washing ton ........................ 10.00
21 Hawaiian ............................ 25.00
22 Occidental ........................... 20.00
23 Madison .............................. 5.00
24 Mariposa ............................ 10.00
26 El Dorado ·················-········ 5.00
27 Trinity ................................ 5.00
32 Gold Hill ............................ 5.00
35 San Diego .......................... 25.00
37 Howard .............................. 10.00
38 Santa Cruz ........................ 10.00
40 Sacramento ·········-··········· 10.00
41 Martinez ............................ 18.86
42 Los Angeles ...................... 10.00
43 Hiram .................................. 5.00
44 Mount Moriah .......:.......... 5.00
45 Crescent ·············-··············· 5.00
46 Texas .................................. 2.50
51 Illinoistown ........................ 5.00
57 Santa Rosa .....,.................. 7.50
58 Union ........................._....... 12.50

Amt.
Lodge
Plumas ................................ 2._50
Live Oak ........................,.... 25.00
Natoma .............................. 5.00
Amador ·········-··················· 5.00
68 Morning Star .................... 10.00
70 Enterprise .......................... 5.00
78 Calveras .............................. 10.00
80 Ione .................................... 2.50
81 Yolo ---································ 2.50
84 Vesper ................................ · 5.00
87 Naval .................................. 15.00
93 St. Helena .......................... 5.00
99 Yosemite ............................ 5.00
101 Clay .................................... 10.00
104 Lexington .......................... 29 .88
106 Arcata ···························-··· 5.00
110 Pajaro .......... :...................... 10.00
111 Chico ···················'-'············ 10.00
113 Eden ........................,........... 5.00
· 117 Concord .............................. 5.00
122 Alamo ................................ 5._00
126 Lafayette ·········-················· 5.00
127 Hermann ............................ 25.00
128 Visalia ................................ 10.00
131 Woodbridge ........................ 2.50
132 Sincerity ............................ 5.00
134 Vacaville ............................ 5.00
139 · Crockett .............................. 10.00
140 Curtis .....:............................ 5.00
143 Franklin .............................. 5.00
144 · Oriental ·····················;········ 25.00
No.
60
61
64
65

Lodge

Amt.

Molino ................................ 5.00
Woodland .........................: 5.00
Excelsior ............................ 12.50
Redwood City .................... 10.00
Mission ................................ 12.50
Antioch .............................. 5.00
Phoenix ·······-····················· 10.00
Mendocino .......................... 5.00
Petaluma ............................ 5.00
Russian River .................... 2.50
Clear Lake ........................ 5.00
188 Oakland ............................... 10.00
191 Marin .................................. 12.50
192 Santa Barbara .................. 10.00
193 Ferndale .............................. 5.00
195 Buckeye ···················-········· 5.00
196 San Simeon ........................ 10.00
199 Hartley ..............:................. 15.00
200 Truckee .............................. 5.00
203 Confidence .......................... 2.50
204 Salinas ................................ 5.00
207 Anaheim ............................ 5.00
209 King David's .................... 5.00
210 Friendship .......................... 10.00
211 San Benito .....................•... 5.00
212 S. San Fr.ancisco ............ 10,00
216 Doric .................................. 12.50
217 Monterey ............................ 5.00
218 Mosaic ···············- ··············· 5:oo
219 Speranza ltaliana ............ 5.00
220 Downey .............................. 10.00
222 Roseville ............................ 5.00
224 Bakersfield ········----·-········· 12.50
225 Brooklyn ............................ 10.00
226 San Mateo .......................... 10.00
241 Santa Ana ........................ 10.00
242 Magnolia ..................•......... 10.00
245 Laurel ......•.•,..,.,.................... 5,00
246 Pomona .............................. 10.00
247 Fresno ................................ 12.50
253 Landmark .......................... 5.00
256 Lodi ···································· 10.00
258 Penrhyn .............................. 2.50
259 Evergreen .......................... 12.50
261 Tuscan ...........................•.... 10.00
262 Lompoc ..........................:..... 10.00
264 Hesperian .......................... 10.00
265 Orland ................................ 7.50
268 Durant ·.············- ················· 5.00
269 Olive Branch .,.................. 5.00
272 Pasadena .,.;c:••.....•..••.......... 25.00
277 Selma .....,............................ 5.00
278 . So. Californi11- .................. 10.00
279 Hanford .............................. 10.00
280 Madera ............·,;..._............,_ 5.00
r~ Callayomi .......................... 5.00
150
156
166
168
169
175
178
179
180
181
183

No.

Lodge

619
Amt.

283 South West ................... ~:.. 10.00
285 San Miguel ···················-··· 10.00
286 Paso Robles ·············-······· 5.00
289 :Elsinore .............................. 5.00
290 East Gate .......................... 25.00
292 Los Gatos .......................... 10.00
293 Orange Grove .................... 10.00
296 Silver Gat e ·-····················· 10.00
297 Dunsmuir .......................... 10.00
299 Liberty ................................ 10.00
301 Ontario ................................ 5.00
305 Azusa ·················-··············· 5.00
306 Ashlar ..............................:. 5.00
307 Santa Monica .................... 5.00
314 Temescal ............................ 5.00
315 Norwalk~ ............................ 5.00
317 Fallbrook ·-························· 5.00
319 H ollenbeck ........................ 5.00
320 South Gate ........................ 5.00
321 Alisa! .................................. 5.00
324 Corona ···············- ---············ 10.00
327 Long Beach ........................ 20.00
328 Redondo .............................. 10.00
331 Pacific Grove .................... 10.00
332 San Pedro .......................... 5.00
336 Fruitvale ............................ 5.00
337 Carquinez ............................ 15.00
338 San Jacinto ........................ 5.00
341 Oxnard ................................ 10.00
343 San Fernando .................... 10.00
346 Palo Alto ···············-·····--·· 5.00
347 McKinley ............................ 5.00
348 San Bernardino ·····-········· 10.00
349 Sequoia .....................•........ 10.00
351 Palestine ............................ 5.00
353 P inole ···························-~·-·· 5.00
355 Hollywood .......................... 5.00
356 Mill Valley ........................ 25.00
360 San Francisco .................... 12.50
363 Berkeley .............................. 10.00
366 Las Palmas ·············-········· 5.00
367 South Pasadena ................ 10.00
368 Unity ......................:........... 10..00
369 Ocean Park ........................ 5.00
370 Amity ·················-·····..:....... 10.00
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie 15.00
374 Jewel .................................... 2._50
375 Richmond ............................ 12.50
376 Francis Drake .................. 5.00
377 Artesia ................................ 5.00
378 . Mizpah ·-····························· 10.00
379 Fillmore .............................. 10.00
· 382 Highland Park .................. 5.00
384 El Centro .......................... 10.00
385 Dinuba ................................ 10.00
387 Coalinga .............................. 10.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

620

No.

Lodge

Amt.

388 Parnassus ................~........ 10.00
389
. 393
394
400
402
403
408
409
410

411
412
415
416
418
· 426
431
433
434
435
438
440
441
442
449
458

460
461
463
466
467

468
475
477
479
483
484

486
487
488
489
491
. 492
493
494
497
499
500
503
507
510
511
513
514
516
518

Palos Verdes .................... 25.00
Balder .................................. 12.50
University .......................... 37.05
Burlingame ........................ 10.00
Brawley .............................. 10.00
Yerba Buena ...................... 7.00
Sierra Madre .................... 10.00
Honolulu ............................ 25.00
Charter Rock ......._........... 10.00
Perris .................................. 5.00
Calexico .............................. 6.00
Silver Trowel .................... 5.00
Lindsay ................................ 22.00
Elysian ................................ 12.50
Midway .............................. 5.00
Alpha ........................._....... S.00
Hammonton ...................... 2S.OO
Maricopa ............................ S.00
Fairmount ..._..................... 10.00
Acacia ................................ S.00
Standard ............................ S.00
Coronado ............................ S.00
Blackmer ............................ 10.00
Park ............._..................... S.00
Henry S. Orme ................ S.00
Mount Oso ........................ 10.00
Argonaut ............................ 10.00
Morgan Hill ...................... S.00
Libertas .............................. 5.00
Culver City ........................ 10.00
Rockridge .......................... S.00
America .............................. 34.05
Temblor .............................. 10.00
Colden Rule ...................... S.00
Bell ...................................... 2.50
Albert Pike ........................ S.00
Caledonia ............................ 5.00
Vallejo ................................ 10.00
Patterson ............................ 5.00
East Bay ............................ S.00
Woodstock ..................._..... 5.00
Garvanza ............................ 6.00
Atascadero .......................... 5.00
Acorn .................................. 10.00
Fremont ..............._............. S.00
Capital City ...................... 10.00
Roosevelt ............................ 2.50
Point .................................... 2.50
El Segundo ......._............... 15.00
Cupertino ............................ 2.50
Sunnyvale .......................... 10.00
Cahuenga ............................ 7.50
Argonne ............................... 10.00
Taft .................................... 5.00
La Jolla .............................. 2S.OO

Lodge
Amt.
No.
S21 Piedmont ............................ 20.00
S23 'Bellflower .......................... 5.00
S24 Catalina Island ................ 3.SO
525 George Washington ........ S.00
S26 Bay City ..........................,... 10.00
528 Beverly Hills .................... 12.35
S31 Alexandria ........................ 2.SO
53S Alexander Hamilton ........ lS.00
541 Henry Morse Stephens .... 5.00
S43 Signal .................................. 10.00
546 San Gabriel ........................ 5.00
sso Seaport ......:......................... 5.00
SSl Lakeshore .......................... S.00
552 Semper Virens .................. 5.00
SSS White Pine ........................ 10.00
558 Point Firmin ...................... 10.00
S61 East San Diego ................ 5.00
S75 Fort Crook ........................ 5.00
S76 El Cajon Valley ......:......... 5.00
S78 Progressive ........................ S.SO
580 Santa Maria ...................... 2.SO
S81 Security .............................. S.00
S90 Compass ............................ S.00
S93 All States .......................... 10.00
594 Service ................................ 10.00
59S Alexander Graham Bell.. 10.00
S96 Guardian ............................ 2.50
603 Dimond .............................. S.00
. 604 Jubilee ................................ S.00
608 Granada .............................. lS.00
611 Canoga ................................ 21.00
61S Hemet .................................. 10.00
620 Point Loma ........................ S.00
621 The Gardens ...................... 2S.OO
625 Angeles Mesa .................... · 5.00
626 Chula Vista ........................ 5.00
632 Normal Heights ................ S.00
633 Poinsettia ............................ 10.00
634 Victorville .......................... S.00
635 Riverside ............................ S.00
637 Palisades ............................ S.00
638 Indian Rock ...................... 5.00
639 Composite .......................... 2.SO
643 Alta Loma .......................... 10.00
645 A-. F . E. Irwin .................. S.00
648 Damascus ............................ S.00
661 Malta .................................. S.00
66S Kaweah .............................. S.00
667 Meridian ............................ S.00
668 San Gorgonio .................... 10.00
669 John P. J a rman ................ S.00
674 Los Cerritos ...................... 11.00
676 Willow Glen ...................... 2.50
680 Carmel ................................ S.00
681 Dos Palos .......................... 2.50
682 Barstow ·.............................. S.'00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amt.
39th District Officers' Association ........................ :..~~......;$ S.00
70th and 71st District Officers'
Association .............................. 12.50
88th District Officers'
.• Association .,............................ 10.00
93rd District Officers'
Association .............................. 6.83
10 I st District Officers'
Association .............................. 34.'50
Santa Monica Bay District
Officers' Associa tion .............. 178.42
Lodges of Perfection

Lodge

No.

Amt.

California .......................... 10 $12.50
Oakland :............................. 2 25.00
Peninsula ............................ 14 10.00
Sacramento ........................ 4
12.SO
San Francisco .................. 1 12.50
Councils, R. & S. M.

Council

No. Amt.

California .......................... 2 $ 2.50
Gateway .............................. 13
us
Pomona .............................. 21
5.00
Valley .................................. 27
S.00
Chapters, R. A. M .

Chapter

N o. Amt.

Coalinga .............................. 114 $ 5.00
Crown .................................. 72
5.00
Delta .................................... 27
1.25
Dixon .................................. 48 10.00
Ferndale .............................. 78
S.00
Franklin .............................. 20
7.50
Hanford ............................ 74 25.00
Humboldt .......................... 52
2.50
Inglewood .......................... 131
10.00
Keystone ............................ 56
5.00
Los Angeles ...................... 33
5.00
Ontario ................................ 105
2.50
Marin ................................ 2
S.00
Martinez ............................ 31
5.00
Naval .................................. 3S
10.00
Pomona .............................. 76
5.00
Redondo ..............................101
5.00
San Luis ............................ 62
2.50
Santa Cruz ........................ 38
3.00
Santa Monica Bay ............ 97
1.25
Siloam ................................ 37
5.00
Sonora ................................ 2
2.SO
St. Helena .......................... 63
5.00

621

Commanderies

C ommandery

No. Amt.

Alhambra ............................ 48 $10.00
Auburn ................................ S2
1.2S
Bakersfield .......................... 39
5.00
California .......................... 1 12.50
Calvary ......._..................... 62
10.00
Chico ...... ~........................... 12
S.00
Eureka ................................ 3S
S.00
Fresno ................................ 29
2.SO
Golden West .................... 43
5.00
Naval .................................. 19
5.00
Nevada ................................ 6
2.50
Oroville .........:..................... S 10.00
Pacific ................................ 3
2.SO
Pasadena ............................ 31
S.00
Sacramento ........................ 2
S.00
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
2.50
San Pedro .......................... 60
2.SO
Santa Cruz ........................ 44
2.50
Santa Rosa ........................ 14
7.SO
Southern California ........ 37
5.00
Ukiah .................................. 33
S.00
Woodland .......................... 21
5.00
Chapters, 0 . E. S.

Chapter

·

No. Amt.

Atascadero ........................344 $ 5.00
Garvanza ............................266
6.00
Ione ........:.............................283 • S.00
Jewel ...................................238 10.00
Mercedes ............................ 126 10.00
M ill Valley ...,....................219 10.00
Mira Monte ......................141
5.00
San Rafael ........................215
10.00
Santa Clara .............- ....... 195
10.00
Siloam ................................ 406
S.00
Miscellaneous

Amt.
Bethel No. 4 Job's Daughters..$ 6.SO
Briley, Arno .............................. 10.00
Chabre, J ohn .............................. 5.00
C risman, Mrs. Ernaline ............ 13:32
Dehn, August C. ........................ 1.00
Del Castillo, T. M. .................. S.00
Denison, L. M. ............................ 5.00
Denser, Al.................................... 2.00
Edick, C. H. .. ......................._... 2.00
Forsell, Adam E. ........................ 20.00
Fisher, Mr. and Mrs.
Stanley J . ................................ 10.00
Fosbery, Frances M. &
William F . .............................. 5.00

~~~~~~r,Fh:~r;·:::::::::::::::::::::::: t~~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA -

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

622

Amt.

Amt.

Hufman, Frank M. ········:······;···· 5.00
Lee, Russell ·········-····················· 5.00
McCann, L. M. .......................... 5.00
Miguelito Circle .......................... . 5.00
Mosher, A. ..................................
.SO
Neiman, A. E. ............................ 5.00
Nor ton, Melville ..............._....... 5.00
Northrop, M. E ......................... 20.00
Northrop Aircraft, · .
Hawthorne, Employees of.... 6.50
O'Leary, Thos. ............................ 5.00
Paul, Val ...................................... 10.00
Pedersen, Mr. and Mrs. Karl .. 12.50
Pontious, H. R. ·- ·········--·········· 15.00
Redding Assembly No. 43, Order of Rainbow for Girls .... 5.00

Seidel, Mrs. Chas. J. ................ 5.00
Silver, Raymond F. .................... 5.00
Stocker, Leslie W. .................... 5.00
Stoltz, R. C., % Beverly
.
Hills, No. 528 ........................ 12.32
Stevenson, E. H . ......................... 12.50
Superior Sacramento Valley
Division, Order of DeMolay 37.00
The Westerners .......................... 168.0I).
Thomure, Arthur J. .................. 6.00
Underhill, Sid ............................ 5.00
Vuillot, ]. E: ·············-··············· 3.00
Whipple, Carl .............................. 10.00
Whittaker, J. E. ........................ 6.00
Wilshire Social Club ····---~---····· 10.00
Wright, Jr., R. M . ..................... 12.50

The report was 'adopted except that portion . dealing with
fi'nances, which was referred to the Finance Committee.
At this point Grand Lodge was called from labor to refreshment and President Wollenberg of the Board of Trustees presented and introduced Miss Helen Schulte, a graduate of our
Masonic Home at Covina, who had just returned from the Aleutian
Islands where she served at a 2nd lieutenant in the U. S. Army
N ursin'g Corps.
· For financial reports, see Spec'.i al Ap~endix.

.:~/

' Grand Lodge was then called from refreshme~t to labor.

623

Following in the footsteps of your previous boards, and in an effort to
measure up to the splendid records achieved in past years, we have carried forward the work of stimulating interest in our two Homes, among the lodges and
membership within the jurisdic'tion.
This has included a general educational campaign, having for its purposes
not only the securing of voluntary contributions to the Endowment Fund, but
also a better understanding on the part of the craft, of this magnificent program-which has now become one of California Masonry's most important
undertakings.
·
' . In bringing this phase of our activities to the attention of the brothers, we
have emphasized the permanency of the fund and have stressed the fact that
contributions become part of the fund itself and that income only is used foi:.operational and maintenance expenses.
. We have tried to implant in the minds o f our members the ·privilege that
is theirs of participating in this great benevolent activity and to bring home to
them the real and lasting good being accomplished by our Homes at Decoto
and Covina.
·
·
It is perhaps unnecessary to. point out that the impact of war has had a
,
somewhat demoralizing effect upon all of our activities, and particularly upon
our Endowment Fund program. :) Demands upon our members, resulting from
war-time conditions, have ·seriously affected many and placed a heavy strain
upon others. Our own War Relief Fund efforts, which may well be considered
as highly necessary if not paramount, have added to some extent, at least, to
the individual responsibilities of our membership.
In the face of all of these conflicting conditions, your board ·is happy to
report to the Grand Lodge that our members have responded to our appeal with
generous hearts. The following figures tell their own story-a story that proves
again that California Masonry is not only aware of its responsibilities and duty
to our unfortunates, but me.ets those responsibilities with genuine Masonic
solicitude and interest, an interest that wells from the heart and overflows with
brotherly love and a sincere desire to g ive help where help is needed.
Total Assets of Fund

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT
BOARD
To the Most Worshipf11l Grand Lodge of California:

Masonic Homes Endowment Board has the pleasure of herewith presenting
its eleventh annual . report covering the period from September 23, 1942, to
September 1, 1943 :
Membership of the board is as follows:

1943
Reynold E. Blight
Harry F . White
Carl E. Miller
Rollie W. Miller
Omo E. Tyler

1944
Ernest G. Bashor
Raymond Taylor
Louis C. Drapeau
James T. Fraser
Ira D. Wheeler

1945
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Robert B. Gaylord
Edmund A. Lockett
Henry G. Hill
Frank M. Smith

The officers .of the board are:
Frank M. Smith, Chairman
Robert B. Gaylord, Vice-Chairm_an

Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Vice-Chairman
Francis V. Keesling, Treasurer
~eynold E. Blight, Secretary

Amount of fund, July 31, 1943................................, .............,........:.............$1,489,137.02
Amount of fund, July 31, 1942.........................................................:.......... 1,366,232.17
Increase during current year ............................................................., .......$ 122,904.85
Accounted for as follows :
Cash donations and bequests.................,........::................$115,209.43
Securities by donation and bequest................................ 7,502.72
Net profit on securities......................................................
192.70
Net increase as above.................,.., .....................~..'.. :$~1Z2,904.85
Amount received from lodges to closing date............:.:·.................~..:....: ..$
Amount received from lodges since July 31, 1943..'i ••.. .-..•.••......... •.•........

58,723.27
9,357.97

Total cash receipts for year from lodges......................................$

68,081.24

Appended to this report will be found the report of the auditors authorized
by the Finance Committee .to audit the atcounts of the E ndowment Fund of
the Masbnic Homes, which covers the financial details omitted from this report.
From the above recapitula.tion it will be seen that, generally speaking, this
year's effort has been quite satisfactory. T he results obtained clearly demonstrate what can be accomplished through the whole-hearted co-operation of the
Mas-ters and officers of our lodges . and an intelli~ent follow-up program.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

624

No.

Appreciation

In this connection, your board desires to ·express its sincere thanks and appreciation to the Masters, secretaries, endowment chairmen, inspectors, and
all others who have given of their time and effort in the carrying out of this
vital program, and withotllt whose co-operation little could have been accomplished.
Our special thanks and appreciation go to the Grand Master for the
magnificent support he has given our efforts throughout the entire year. Particular reference is made to his official proclamation designating the month of
May as Homes Endowment Fund Month-a declaration of Masonic precepts
and principles that brought inspiration and thoughtful consideration to the
members of the Craft throughout the entire jurisdiction.
In no less a degree, we likewise express our appreciation of the splendid
support given your board by all of the officers of. the Grand Lodge, a support
which gave added pleasure to our efforts.
Indicative of the interest which has manifested itself during the past
twelve months, is the great amount of correspondence which your board has
handled, numbering many hundreds of incoming and outgoing communications.
To this activity should be added the distribution of many thousands of pieces of
literature dealing with the subject, as well as receipts and letters of acknowledgment sent to all donors. Printing, postage, and clerical assistance, necessary
to the proper carrying on of our activities, were of considerable magnitude.
Testamentary Gifts
Bequests in cash were received up to Augu.s t 31, 1943, as follows, in
addition to bequests of securities included in the Auditor's Report:
Estates of Joseph W. L. Griffen........._...........~.............•..............:..$
41.17
Harry . K. EmeN!On........................................ _...............
100.00
Mary W. Arnott...................:..........1.... ...... . ..- ...... . . ....... 5,000.00
John Tonningsen ········-······:........................................ 5,662.82
Emmet E. F.dmonds._................................................... 30,000.00
625.00
Bertha Sherwood .....................................,....................
Martha C. Watts......................................................... ~..
262.41
John Sinclair ........................................._.......................
168.77
Jennie R. Thomas..................................................... _...
416.73
Jean Marie Colon.......................................................... 28,450.47
Magnus Madsen ......................................................._... 6,706.08
Henry F. Graef..............................................................
200.00
Isabelle Charlotte Lantheaume....................................
600.00
Albert and Catherine Richards...........:..... _............... 1,275.02
Honorable Mention
(Lodges contributing more than $1.00 per capita)
No.

8
21
26
32
35
60
68
87
99
128
198

lodge

Mem-

MemAmount bers

No.

lodge

204
338
182
93
557
100
428
609
250
319
288

202
208
214
221
226
237
242
254
273
278
279

Pentalpha ··-----·········
Rio Vista ................
San Buenaventura..
Inyo ············--·------···
San Mateo ..............
Guadalupe ·····--·····-·
Magnolia ................
Reading ..................
Anchor ····················
Southern California
Hanford ··················

Tuolumne ................$ 236.00
Hawaiian ················ 820.00
El Dorado................ 184.00
Gold Hill.................. 183.00
San Diego................ 1251.25
Plumas .................... 136.00
Morning S tar.......... 635.40
Naval ....................... 1725.50
Yosemite .................. 318.00
Visalia ···················· 687.50
Wilmington ............ 332.00

Amount bers

863.00
193.50
543.00
16.00
242.50
75.50
608.57
200.00
616.48
519.00
257.00

568
94
262
71
227
57
240
178
240
481
144

287
302
312
314
320
321
323
330
343
349
369
371
378
384

387
390
397
400
405
406

409
412
419
424
425
430
434
438
466
470
472
475
476
483
493
506
507
519

lodge

MemAmount bers

Winnedumah
125.50
Santa Lucia ............ 152.50
Los Banos .............. 150.00
Temescal ................ 139.50
South Gate .............. 746.00
Alisa! ...................... 129.00
Whittier .................. 537.41
Kilauea .................... 537.50
San Fernando ........ 258.50
Sequoia .................... 928.00
Ocean Park ............ 358.50
le Progres de
L'Oceanie ................ 1227.50
Mizpah .................... 642.74
El Centro ................ 322.50
Coalinga .................. 313.00
Imperial .................. 81.00
Rising Light............ 832.50
Burlingame ............ 408.00
Moneta .................... 1053.50
Burbank .................. 817.00
Honolulu ................ 493.00
Calexico .................. 317.00
Upland .................... 178.00
E xeter .................. 381.00
H oltville ................ 178.00
McCloud .................. 153.50
Maricopa ................ 137.10
Acacia ...................... 88.00
Libertas .................. 301.50
Lincoln .................... 295.00
Maui ........................ 173.00
America .................. 379.00
Coachella ................ 109.00
Bell .......................... 222.40
Atascadero .............. 62..00
Mount Olive .......... 1255.00
El Segundo ............ 291.00
Euclid ........._........... 278.25

108
99
121
132
648
105
451
191
235
857
336

•

364
368
306
268
63
515
382
62fi
252
223
12.3
139
153
94
106
67
61
243
272
129
347
85
203
61
530
166
255

No.

522
523
528
535
538
543
555
577
580
583
585
589
590
595
598
599
600
609
620
623
624
627
629
632
637
645
647
649
657
662

666
674
675
681
682
683
684

lodge

625
MemAmount ben

Sunrise .................... 213.75
Bellflower .......- ..... 215.00
Beveriy Hills ........ 225.00
Alexander Hamilton 250.00
Ascot ........................ 237.00
Signal ...................... 623.50
White Pine ............ 94.25
Sunnys,ide .............. 350.00
Santa Maria .......... 116.00
Wasco ...................... 217.00
Manchester ............ 300.50
Kauai ....................... 480.00
Compass .................. 133.50
Alexander Graham
Bell .......................... 212.15
Pearl Harbor ........ 715.00
Carmelita ................ 211.00
Lynwood ................ 133.00
Provident ................ 146.00
Point Loma ·............ 113.50
Menorah .................. 373.00
Fortitude ....._......... 136.00
Lamanda Park........ 271.00
Fairview ................ 212.65
Normal Heights .... 250.00
Palisades ................ 323.00
A. F. E. Irwin........ 310.00
Hawthorne .............. · 200.50
Florence .................. 304.50
John D. Spreckels.. 514.00
Henry Knox .......... 876.25
Reseda .................... 138.50
Los Cerritos ........ .. 152.00
Modes,t o .................. 200.00
Dos Palos ............. . 48.00
Barstow .................. 178.32
Redwood Empire.... 47.50
Trona ...................... 187.00

174
148
223
132
226
259
84
255
49
107
209
98
131
166
196
185
113
135
101
307
127
109
99
179
17?.
142
52
181
278
246
75
113
146
45
58
20
50

Bequests
Although accrument to the Endowment Fund through the medium of wills
and bequests represents a substantial portion of its gradual increase, it is our
belief that the opportunity along this particular line of endeavor is in fact a
virgin field. In line with that belief we have continued to keep the subject
before the proper individuals and like our predecessors, have continued to sow
seeds which will bear fruit in the years to come.
War Savings Stamps and Bonds
Successfully initiated by last year's board, the plan of performing a double
duty through the purchase of War Savings Stamps and Bonds, and in turn
donating them t o the Endowment Fund, has been given our every encouragement and has produced most satisfactory results, as reflected in the foregoing
financial statements. Too much credit for the success of this particular phase
of our activities cannot be given to the secretaries and endowment chairmen
for their untiring efforts in this matter. War Stavings Stamps in the amount
of $1,622.85 was received from the individual lodges.

626

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Receipts 1943
Balance shown by 1942 report....~.....;...........~ .................:.......:....:..............:...::..$ 948.40
Appropriation of 1942 Grand Lodge.,....................-...•......:....................- ....1~.' 5,000.00
Total ........................:......................,.......................... ~ ..-................................$5,948.40
Disbursements 1943
Printing and supplies (including postage, stamped envelopes) ....$1 ,175.78
Expenses Boai;,d meetings.................................................................... 180.33
Miscellaneous (including exchange charge on checks) ................
24.92
Stenographic and clerical help...............................................;···'········· 1,685.00
Total ..........................,...'...............................'...................................

Chairman Smith reported to Grand Lodge the adoption of a
new policy by the Endowment Board, October 11, 1943, which provides for the issuance by Lodge Secretaries of numbered receipts
to contributors, and the forwarding by the Lodge Secretaries of
contributions to the Grand Lodge office.
The Grand Master then presented M. W. Albert R. Buehman,
Grand Master of Masons in Arizona, who brought the g reetings of
that Grand Jurisdiction and told of the various war activities beirig
carried on by that Grand Lodge.

3,016.03

Cash in bank October 1, 1943.......................:.... ~·-····························-···············$2,932.37
In order that your board may function during the ensuing y~r, we offer
the following resolution and recommend its adoption: "Resolved, that the sum
of six thousand dollars be and is hereby appropriated from the funds of this
Grand Lodge to be paid to the Masonic Homes Endowment Board for its
expenses for the year ending July 31, 1944."
The healthy condition of your Endowment Fund at this time, and its gradual growth from year to year, are concrete evidence of its value to the fraternity and the lasting benefits made possible by its operation. Because its
activities are cumulative and thus make possible a gradual enlargement of its
accomplishments, your board urges active continuance, in the hope that some
day its shall have reached such proportions as will make it unnecessary to call
upon our members, as individuals, for further assistance.
Conclusion
The individual members of your board are deeply grateful for having had
the honor and opportunity of serving so worthy a cause during the year now
ending; a cause that has received the generous approval of the members of the
Craft, as shown by their sympathetic interest in the welfare of our guests at
the homes at Decoto and Covina.
Although the war has brought its dislocations, its sorrows and its grief to
many of us, the history of the past year, as particularly applied to the activities
of this board, has proved' that the spirit of democracy g.till lives. We still have
our freedoms and our ability to carry out the traditional programs of charity,
brotherly love and . inutual assistance-the foundation and cardinal principles
of our great fraternity.
Fraternally submitted,
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD:
FRANK M. SMITH, Chairman
FRANCIS V. KEESLING, Treas~rer
ROBERT B. GAYLORD, Vice-Chairman
REYNOLD E. BLIGHT, Secretary
WM. RHODES HERVEY, Vice-Chairman
HARRY F. WHITE
CARL E. MILLER
ROLLIE W. MILLER
Lours C. DRAPEAU
IRA D. WHEELER

627

HENRY G. HILL
0RNO E . TYLER
ERNEST G. BASHOR
RAYMON D TAYLOR
JAMES T. FRASER
EDMUND A. LocKETT

The report was adopted except that portion dealing with
finances, which was referred to the Finance Committee.
For financial reports, see Special Appendix.
For contributions by Lodges see Statistical Appendix.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TWENTY-FOURTH
ANNUAL OBSERVANCE OF PUBLIC
SCHOOLS WEEK
To the Most Worshipful Grand iodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Master of one of the lodges in a city which ·had held an especially
successful observance this year stated in his report that the success was
"spotty.'' It developed that what he meant was that while the observ:~n<:e
was otherwise very successful, there were ' two night meetings at which
the· attendance had not been as large as it should have been. Well, a
somewhat similar situation prevailed throughout the state generally.
The twenty-fourth annual observance of Public Schools Week was
one of the most successful ever held. Indeed there were many communities, it appears from the reports, in which in spite of war conditions,
or perhaps because of them, the observance aroused more public interest
and received more support than ever before.
The success reported was especially gr_a.tifying in that it appears it
was not generally expected. Attached to the report from one of our
lodges was a letter from the District Superintendent of Schools to the
lodge from which we quote because it expresses what we have in mind :
"I am 'happy to submit this annual report on Public Schools Week in.
the - - - School District. It has been made up by the Principals of the
various schools in the District and is a complete summary of the week's
program. . . .
"I had considerable misgiving that Public Schools Week this year
would receive less attention from the patrons of the school district because of the many requirements of the war effort. However, now that
the week is over I am happy to report that regardless of the emergency,
Public Schools Week was an outstanding success .. ..
"We believe that there were fully as many people that visited their
public schools during the observance, as in any year in the past. . . .
"The members of the governing board, the administrative council
and the teachers of the district share with me the enthusiasm that we
have because of the support given us by - - - Masonic Lodge.. . . Thank
you for your splendid cooperation.''
Although, as we have said, our latest observance was as a whole, one
of the most successful ever held, there were some black spot's. There
were some lodges (fortunately not many) which made no effort whatever to overcome the obstacles presented by war time conditioni<. They
did not measure up to the opportunity presented. There were others

628

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

where the difficulties were virtually unsurmountable; and in one community an outbreak of measles, and in another of whooping cough, made
it necessary to cancel the arrangements which had been made for an
observance. Blame should not therefore attach to every lodge which
failed to comply with the proclamation of the Grand Master to join in
the observance of Public Schools Week.
In justice to some of the lodges which made no effort to join in the
observance it should be stated that in some places this was due to the
fact that the school authorities discouraged the holding of an observance
this year. The reason given was that because of war conditions, the
schools, and the teachers, were already burdened with an extremely
heavy load and that with their other duties, the teachers could not
devote the necessary time to an observance. Of course, it is a fact that
there are communities in which the school population has more than
doubled; and the schools like other war industries, are being operated
in "shifts"-and with the same teacher taking two shifts.
It was obvious at the outset that the prevailing conditions made a
successful observance more difficult than it otherwise would have been;
and, therefore, in the first notice from our committee to the Masters
they were reminded that to overcome the handicap it would be necessary
to make extraordinary efforts this year.
The dim-out regulations, gas rationing and other transportation difficulties would naturally affect the attendance. But in addition to this,
many of the Masters and other officers and members of the lodge were
engaged in war work of some sort, or were having additional demands
made upon their time by the manpower shortage; and the deer.e ased
number of teachers made it difficult for some of the school people to
give as full cooperation as would be ordinarily expected.
It must be remembered, too, that among those who would ordinarily
join in the observance there will be found · some who, for one reason or
another have failed to realize the relationship between public education
and th~ momentous world affairs which now engage our attention. To
them the observance of PubHc Schools Week is dwarfed by what are
obviously war time duties and obligations.
The situation presented was a challenge not only to the loyalty of
the craft, but to the intelligence as well as the zeal of those charged
with the responsibility of making the arrangements. And marvelously
did they respond to it.
There were some communities where in spite of war conditions no
change whatever was made in the form of the observance ; and the success was the result of the extraordinary effort which was made. In
others the form was changed to meet the local conditions. For th_e
most part the change simply meant holding no night meetings a!ld
featuring visits to the schools with classroom exhibits and demonstrations.
It will be remembered that because of the interference of the Easter
vacation the time of our observance was changed from the regular date
-the fo~rth Monday in April to the second Monday. This made possible
a form of observance of which mention will be made later.
Whatever the form of the observance, the program was in one way
or another predicated on the theme "Education for Victory"; and was
designed to call attention to the part the schools are playing in the
national emergency.
Probably the most amazing thing in connection with the observance
was the response of the public. It would seem as though there were
more than one community like that bf which the Master said in his

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

629

report "Public Schools Week in - - - is always looked forward to and
attended with much pleasure and enthusiasm. This year seemed better
than ever before."
But, hardly less amazing is the fact that there are still people in
California who apparently "don't know what it's all about." In a report
from one of our lodges the Master wrote: "Most people, particularly
those without children, wonder why they are asked to attend. They
believe that like all the other great American institutions and privileges,
public schools are to be expected ; and as long as no one is trying to
close them or take them away why should they bother ?"
Why bother ? Because as was pointed out this year in an admirable
address by a County Superintendent of Schools "Probably the thing to
guard against most is the too common practice of taking things for
granted. Well conducted institutions do not function properly in an
automatic way. Good schools come as a direct result of live interest
in them on the part of our people and from careful efficient planning
by those whose duty it is to direct our schools."
Why bother? Why do we observe Public Schools Week? Well
perhaps as good an answer as could be given appears in the following
excerpts from a splendid newspaper editorial published in a metropolitan
daily at the beginning of this year's observance:
"We take the free public school too much for grant ed. We forget
it is -something men have fought and died for. We shut our eyes to the
evidence all about us that it can be taken away from us over night if
we do not exert ourselves to protect and preserve it. •. ."
"How can we then as American citizens take our schools so casually?
Why are we not moved to such high appreciation of them as to give
them our constant, unremitting encouragement and support? Not just
financial support through our payment of taxes, but moral and spiritual
support as well. . . ."
and then followed this ringiRg appeal to mo~hers and fathers:
"Will you mothers and fathers of children now in school or of
children who were once in school and are now offering their lives in
t heir country's service-will you honor them by taking the trouble this
week to visit your neighborhood school, take an interest in what is being
done there and speak a word of encouragement to the teachers to whose
trust you have committed your children."
Of course, there are always a lot of people who would visit the
schools if they were not so busy. That was the sort the students of a
junior high school must have have had in mind when they commenced
t he invitation they sent out with these words:
"Good afternoon I Busy ? We h ope so. For only busy people find
time to do worthwhile things, and we think this is t ruly worthwhile.
"For we are busy too, buying jeeps, picking and packing citrus fruit,
replacing service men and women in downtown stores and on the ranches
and trying to keep up our school work at the same time."
With this invitation was one sent out by the Senior High School
which commenced as follows:
"We realize, of course, that in this battle-torn world of today you .
have little time to study the effect the war is having on our system of
education; but we think you ought to know" ;
and then followed the story of their "Victory Corps" and the description
of the "first-class corpsmen" who in six weeks had either worked 150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN:D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

hours on an outside job or given 30 hours of their time to such activities
as OP duty, real "service" without pay.

In t~e "long ago" there was one community, a comparatively large
one, which never seemed able to hold a successful observance, although
there was no apparent reason for the failures. But for ·many years now
the arran~ements h~ve been made, with outstanding success, by a school
man appomted by the Masters and Wardens and who is described as the
"liaison officer" between the schools and the lodges. He evidently "has
what it takes," because in referring to the success this year one of the
Masters in his report says. ~ "Public Schools Week in - - - is probably
one of the best in the state."
Mention has been repeatedly made in these r eports of the cooperation
of the school aut}iorities in arranging for our annual ol:>servance, and of
the participation of the pupils in the program. But this year in one community, not only · was the evening program at the high school which
P?rtrayed the activity of the schools in the war effort entirely written,
directed and enacted by the students, but the full responsibility for the
organization of the whole week's observance was taken by the Victory
C:orps. And they apparently did a first class job. A particularly impressive feature of the program was the presentation of gifts, consisting of
lap boards, robes and books to the -hospital of a nearby Army camp.
The editorial from which we have quoted was only one of a great
many which constituted a part of the fine publicity so generously given
us by the newspapers and over the radio. Typical of many was one on
"Public Education, Constant and Vital Source of True Americanism"
which was concluded with these paragraphs:
"The observance of Public Schools Week has contributed a great
deal to the maintenance of American standards of education. It serves
as a vehicle of resistance to disparagement and diminishment of those
standards.
"Let us indeed observe it with renewed interest and vigilance now
when our American principles and our American concept give u~
strength for the great struggle in which we are engaged."
There were many communities where the local newspapers carried
if not in full, ample digests of, addresses which had been delivered ·at
meetings held for the observance of Public Schools Week; and in one
place where there was no public meeting, an entire program was broadcast from a local station.
One of the reasons for a change in the form of the observance in
some communities was the fact that the teachers and pupils were engaged
in work made necessary by the shortage in farm labor. The letter from
one of our Masters explaining the situation in his community is so very
interesting that we fee l impelled to quote at some length from it (but, ·o f
course, omitting names and identifying features):
"As you will notice by the enclosed report no special program w_as
arranged. When the Grand Master's proclamation was received we discussed the advisability of presenting our usual program and on the
advice of our Senior Deacon who is also principal of th~ high school
decided it would not be quite proper.
"As you probably have read the farmers are having difficulty in
harvesting their crops. This is a farming community, and each night
after school and on Saturdays and Sundays bus loads of students, teachers
and other townspeople would go out into the fie lds and harvest the
cotton, almonds and grapes. In fact, · the greater part of the cotton in
· this dis_trict was harvested by students. We felt that since. the pupils
of the local schools have been actually showing the people what they
could do, a special program was unnecessary. Each evening the bus

630

The invitations must have been effective because the Master of the
lodge reported "best attendance in several years"-and this in spite of
bad weather and "transportation difficulties." Incidentally this was only
one of many reports of "unusually heavy attendance at all events this
year."
In connection with the question of attendance at events featured
during the week it is amusing to note that one Master reported that the
reason the attendance at the public meeting was so small was that the
people were entirely satisfied with the way the schools in that community were being conducted; while another Master gave practically
the same reason to account for the overflow attendance they always had
at their observance.
One of the most interesting reports with respect to attendance came
from a city where a meti'culous tally is kept of the visitors to each school
with a "break down" of elementary, junior high, and senior high schools
and the junior college; and a comparison in each case with the preceding
year. From this report it appears that despite the pressure of many war
time duties, the public responded very generously to the invitations sent
out by the schools. As was anticipated, the elementary schools had the
most visitors. T.he total number visiting the elementary and junior high
.schools for 1943 exceeded the number visiting during the 1942 observance.However, the number of visitors at the senior high schools and junior
college was very much smaller than last year.
This year for the first time there appeared in one of the reports an
account of a visit made to an Extended Day Care School for childreh
of employed mothers. As its contribution to the observance of Public
Schools Week it held "open house" on one day during the week. Visitors
were conducted through the play room, sleeping quarters, play yard and
kitchen; and had an opportunity of becoming acquainted with the methods
of entertaining and educating these pre-school age children.' Entertainment was provided by group singing and rhythm play with musicial
accompaniment. And it apparently proved to be an extremely interesting
feature of a fine observance.
In a newspaper clipping accompanying a report, the account of a local
observance noted as extremely significant the fact that visitors had appeared at the very first classes of the day and had arrived with the
pupils at the opening of the school. It was indeed indicative of an admirable public interest in that community and which no doubt .a ccounted
for a very successful observance.
In addition to a display of th e ordinary products of class room
activities there were this year exhibits of war time work. From the
domestic science classes there came displays of fresh, dehydrated and
home canned fruits and vegetables, and of appliances including home
dehydrators and pressure cookers; and the shop work in some schools
included completed parts that would be incorporated in industrially
produced machines and implements of war.
Generally speaking, this year, as every year, the success of the local
observance was proportionate to the zeal, industry and intelligence of
those charged with the responsibility of preparing for it. And as usual
the prime factor was the cooperation received from the schoolpeople
and from the newspapers and broadca&ting systems.

~31

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

loads of cotton pickers went to a different farm and so covered the entire
community. The great majority of the students' parents live on farms.
If we had arranged a special program for them in town, •they would
have felt obligated to attend yet they must watch their tires and
gasoline.
"So it was decided that open house be declared at the schools. Patrons
invited to attend whenever they came to town on business. There were
exhibits in the class rooms and visitors were shown the various projects
now in progress-most of them in some way connected with the war
effort. It was a great success·. There were many visitors-mostly people
who had come to town for groceries or to have their machinery repaired.

and of which it was said: "It was not merely another 'big town meeting'
all fl.ash and no substance. It was a real Public Schools Celebration."

632

"We felt we have done our part in helping to preserve rubber and
gas, and yet not fail to observe Public Schools Week."
That lodge did indeed do its part. And incidentally the letter (aft of
which was not quoted) was handwritten by the Master-which of itself
must have been some "bother."
This was only one of numerous instances in which school children
were reported as rendering a conspicuous and valuable service in connection with the manpower shortage; and, of course, school children
everywhere have engaged in the various campaigns and "drives" for ·
salvage, Junior Red Cross, War Saving Stamps and Victory Gardens.
It is now well known, of course, that drastic changes have been
made in the school curriculum to adjust it to war time needs~ Not so
well known, however, is the fact that not only have curricula been
changed, but in some school systems a form of cooperative education
has been introduced which is similar in some respects to that which
has long distinguished Antioch College.
At a joint meeting of service clubs held in observance of Public
Schools Week, the Superintendent of Schools in a city in the southern
part of the state, in detailing just what the schools are doing, and in
mentioning changes made in the curriculum, called attention to the fact
that 200 high school boys were working four hours every day in a
neighboring airplane factory and spending four hours in school.
While the public meetings held at night are no longer the feat~re
they once were, important addresses continue to be given-frequently
at the noonday meetings of service clubs and of other organizations. In
one city this year every service club held a special meeting for the
observance of Public Schools Week. There we're addresses by school
men, and in some instances by students, with vocal and instrumel\tal
music furnished by the members of the school glee clubs and orchestras.
In one form or another "The Place of the High School in War Time"
was the theme of many addresses. It seemed to be the consensus ~h_at
while additional courses in mechanics, mathematics, mechanical drawing
and kindred subjects have been properly added to the curriculum, this
did not mean that this solved the problem of what constituted sound
educational procedure in ordinary times.
One speaker pointed out that if school administrators had insisted
ten years ago on all the mathematics for which the Navy is now asking
there would have been an immediate and vociferous protest by the, parents
against a curriculum of that sort.
Many of the meetings this year might be described as was one
where an address on "The Future of Our Public Schools" was an outstanding feature of an interesting, instructive and inspirational program;

633

Pageants were again this year featured in many of the programs. The
motif in almost every case was a patriotic one, and in most instances
was either directly or indirectly related to the war. We cannot, of course,
even briefly mention every one deserving of notice; but typical of many
more or less elaborate was one in which each character represented one
of the allied nations. He was garbed in the costume of the land he
represented and carried that nation's flag. The characters made their
entry in the sequence in which that country joined the allies in the war
for freedom. With the appearance of each character the narrator gave a
short history of the country he represented and either the glee club or
the school orchestra rendered a selection typical of the nation. With the
conclusion of the pageant the participants and the audience join:ed in
singing the first verse of our national anthem.

In recognition of the fact that a particularly important phase of
public education today is the development of a friendly understanding
between this country and our neighbors to the south of us, and because
with the changed time of our observance the dates coincided, Public
Schools Week was observed in some communities in conjunction with PanAmerican Week. At one school there was an elaborate program on each
of four days during the week. One of the features was a "Pageant of
the Americas" with the representation of a street in Mexico and the
introduction of music and dances typical of Latin-America. One of the
addresses was delivered by the Vice Consul of Honduras; and there
was what was reported as an extremely interesting address on "What
Our Pan-American Neighbors Mean to U. S." The subject of the
only other formal address was "The Meaning and Purpose of Public
Schools Week." The remainder of the program consisted of appropriate
vocal and instrumental music furnished by the pupils.
.
Another "tie in" of our observance reported this year was with the
celebration of Thomas Jefferson's birthday. Nothing could be more appropriate in view of his attitude toward public education. It was Jefferson
who said: "I think by far the most important bill in our whole code is
that for diffusion of knowledge among the people. No other sure foundation can be devised for the preservation of freedom and happiness."
"Preach a crusade against ignorance, establish and improve the law
for educating the common people. Let our countrymen know that the
people alone can protect us against these evils ; and the tax which will be
paid for the purpose is not more than the thousandth part of what will
be paid to kings, priests and nobles who will rise among us if we
leave the people in ignorance."
As is known, and for reasons which have been repeatedly explained,
we never mention by name, or otherwise identify, any lodge in either
praise or censure. The only exception we ever make is with respect to
our Island Lodges. And this year it is again Maui which held its observance on the usual date to "tie in" to Lei Day-or May Day. This
year it was also "Stamp and Bond Day" with a carnival which was· a
great success in spite of a rainstorm. Every school on the island held
some sort of observance. At a m eeting of the Rotary Club held for the
observance of Public Schools Week the Principal of the West Maui
School is reported to have said in the course of his address that the
problem of dealing with school children became pressing with the start
of hostilities "in the Hawaiian area, and that the military authorities

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

decided that the best policy would be to keep the schools open so that the
children would be occupied and under control. He also said that the
teachers were able during those first few months of war to put over
a certain amount of propaganda that was desired by the military authorities which helped to keep the community calm and allow the military
units to fully perform their duties.
In Honolulu the conditions this year were no more favorable for
holding an observance than they were last year. But again this year
the Masters joined in a letter to our Committee reminding us of the
situation and expressing regret at their inability to join in our annual
observance.
Here, as elsewhere, the school children are contributing to the war
effort. From the letter it appears that the schools in turn send out
several hundred children each day of the week to work on the pineapple
plantations to relieve labor for other war work. In this way they are
fulfilling a very important role in this all-out war effort, and it is proving
very satisfactory to the industry involved.

and the name of the school. This is retained for one year by the winning
school; and when one school wins it three times, it will retain permanent
possession. Although the prizes were awarded in the name of the .lodge,
they were donated by individual members. We think it worth noting
that this lodge sponsored similar observances in three di.fferent school
districts.
·

634

We are all more or less familiar with the three R's, the three C's
·and the four H's. This year the four S's-studies, skills, safety and
service---made their appearance. They keynoted an observance in a
community which also observed "Safety Week." And because these
four S's so clearly indicate just what is being done today in the high
schools of California we give this brief description of them.
The first " S"--studies-refers to the study methods that are now being
stressed with the change in the school turriculum. History, mathematics,
civics and political science are being taught to equip pupils to aid the
war effort and so that they may better understand what is taking place
in the world around them.
The second "S"-skills-covers the work being done to qualify men
and women to operate the machinery which turns out guns, planes, ships
and ammunition. The old manual training class of a decade ago has
been supplanted by modern and fully equipped shops in which qualified
instructors teach students how to work with the lathe, the acetylene
torch and all the precision instruments of an industrial war worker's
tool kit.
The third "S"-safety-refers to the methods that are being stressed
to inculcate in the pupils those habits which are not only conducive to
their own well being, but affect the health and safety of thos.e with whom
they live and play and work. Emphasis is laid on the menace of careless
driving on the highway and the careless handling of tools in the factory
and on the farm.
·
The last "S"--service-features the activities of the high school "Victory Corps" work to prepare students for wartime, civilian and military
activity after they have been graduated.
Although the three C's, the four H's and the four S's very properly
c.onstitute a part of the work of the modern school, visitors during
Public Schools Week were made aware of the fact that the three R's are
by no means being neglected.
"Spelling Bees" were featured in many programs. And a recognition
of the importance of spelling appeared in the awards given by a lodge
for the best speller in each of two groups of elementary grades. Incidentally a splendid report from. that lodge shows that there were also
awards for the winners of debates and essays on current topics. One .of
the prizes was a silver trophy bearing the name of the . ·winning pupil

635

It is more than likely that there will be few, if any, among the thousands who availed themselves of the opportunity presented by the observance of Public Schools Week who will ever again give heed to that
uninformed criticism to which our public schools always have been, and
probably always will be, subjected.
If there were more people who knew what our schools are really
doing, and understood why it is being done, there would be fewer to
grow hysterical over what they think should be done--<>r left undone.
They would know that notwithstanding what they might have read, or
heard, the "fundamentals" are not being neglected. They would al.so
know that teachers and school administrators everywhere, especially in
the high schools and colleges, have unhesitatingly, and willingly and
cheerfully, 'subordinated everything to such activities as will best enable
us to win the war. And they should have . learned by this time that · no
one has any right to question the loyalty and patriotism of the product
of our public schools:

And finally: It should never be forgotten that the purpose of public
education in a democracy is to teach children, and particularly adolescents,
to think-and not merely to think what some one else wants them to
think.
It is the direct opposite of what it is in the totalitarian countries
where children are developed into "little robots-automatons who think,
and act ·and ·live (or die) as slaves of the state."
Our schools are not perfect, of course. What human institution is?
But in spite of all its defects and shortcomings, real or only fancied, now,
no less than it always has been, our system of public education is the
backbone of our democracy. It is not merely conducive to, it is our
American way of life.
All of which is respectfully submitted,
ROBERT A. ODELL,
JOHN B. BEMAN,
MELVIN E . BOWMAN,
WILL
CRAWFORD,
JOHN L. COMPTON,
PERCY R. DAVIS,
NORMAN H. FARNHAM,
DR. WALTER
GOODFELLOW,
F. A. HENDERSON,
THOMAS J. HENRY,
VIERLING KERSEY,
JOHN A. SEXSON,
JOHN P. SHAHAN ,
STEADMAN G. SMITH,
MAURICE A. SroKESBARY,
CHARLES E. TEACH,

c.

v.

Adopted.

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
ALTER L. BACHRODT,
RoY
CLOUD,
VIRGIL E . DICKSON,
ELIAS E. ELLISON,
WALTER T. HELMS,
C. BURNH AM HERYFORD,
WESLEY
KERGAN,
FREDERICK F . MARTIN,
JOSEPH P. NOURSE,
JESSE R. OVERTURF,
WILLIAM G. p ADEN,

w

w.

w.

w.

JESSE
WARNER,
VAUGHN MACCAUGHEY.

637

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

636

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Pursuant to the requirements of our Grand Lodge Constitution .the
committee has' audited all bills, claims and demands against this Grand ,
Lodge which were presented to the Grand Secretary, and have approved
those which in our opinion were proper to be paid.
The committee, in a regular meeting held at the Grand Secretary's
office February 27, 1943, devised and put into operation a change in the
method of approving these bills, claims and demands whereby the Grand
Secretary must personally affix his approval to each and every invoice
parable rather than to the vouchers and or recaps representing groups
of such invoices . ·An exception to this rule is allowed during the absence
of the Grand Secretary when it will be the duty of the Assistant Grand
Secretary to so affix his approval. The committee feels that this method
will assure a closer scrutiny of all bills paid through the Grand Secretary's
office and presents a more complete and acceptable audit of these accounts.

Second: Owing to war time conditions the usual required records,
namely, the dispensation, the minutes, attested copy of By-Laws, together with a comprehensive report, financial and otherwise, pertaining
to the activities of this Lodge, have not been returned, and therefore
have not been made available for examination by your committee.
However, we feel that the personnel of charter members, some of
whose names have been above noted, is sufficient assurance that our Masonic Laws will be fully observed in the _spirit, if not in the letter.
Third : The correspondence file in the matter of this dispensation
contains many items of personal interest, and your particular attention
is directed to the following:
(1) Telegram.
(2) Translation of telegram.
(3) See Wood letter, 4-3-43, first and last paragraph.
(4) See DePass letter of 4-7-43, as marked.
The formal report now follows.
LEE T. MULLEN,
LEWIS D. COLUNGS,
GERALD
PAGE,

w.

Respectfully submitted,
DWIGHT N. DEANE,
JAMES HURST,
How ARD D. KrNG,
GEORGE D. HORN,
DONALD B. RYAN,
GEO RGE J. RULOFSON, ·
WILLIAM
BOUTON,

E.

Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
Preliminary and I nformal Report

To the Most W(!rshipful Gmnd Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters, to which was referred the recommendation of the Most Worshipful Grand Master with reference to the
dispensation of Fortitude Lodge, U . D., Chungking, China, is taking the
liberty of first presenting a preliminary and informal report which is intended· to be off the record and for information only, and which will require no action on the part of this Grand Lodge.
First : The personnel of charter members includes Brother George
A. Fitch, as the first · Master, whose personal friendship with our Grand
Secretary, Brother Lloyd Wilson, covers a period of fifteen years; Brother
C. T. Wong, also a personal friend of Brother Wilson, who, for several
years prior to 1940, was the Chinese Ambassador to Washington; Wong
Chung-Hui, who was for many years a distinguished Judge of the World
Court; Lott Wei, who is one of the high finance officials of China; John
Stewart Service, who is secretary of the American Embassy at Chungking; J. M. Hansen, representative of the Texaco Oil Company in
Chungking for many years, as well as the former District Deputy Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines for China; and last but
not least, Morris B. DePass, Jr., a Colonel in the United States Ar~y,
and Military Attache of the American Embassy in Chungking, and the
newly commissioned Inspector of the 118th Masonic District.

Committee.
To the Most Worshipful Grana Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters, to which was referred the recommendation of the Most Worshipful Grand Master that Fortitude Lodge,
U. D., of Chungking, China, be continued under further dispensation, is
entirely in accord with the Grand Master's recommendation.
We have examined carefully such records as are available in connection with the formation and operation of Fortitude Lodge, U. D ., and
find the same to be in order.
Your committee, therefore, recommends:
That a new dispensation be granted to Fortitude Lodge, U. D., of
Chungking, China, and in so doing we commend the members of this
Lodge for their efforts in the past and we wish for them that full measure
of future success which their manifest courage and enterprise so richly
deserve.
LEE T. MULLEN,
LEwis D. COLLINGS,
GERALD
PAGE.

w.

Adopted.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters, to which was referred the matter of
the consolidation of Welcome Lodge No. 255, at Lemoore, and Riverdale
Lodge No. 496, at Riverdale, beg leave to report as follows:
We have examined the records of the consolidation procedure of both
of these Lodges and we find that they have fully complied with Section
141 of Constitution and Ordinances" and Section 475 of the Regulations.
We, herefore, recommend the action of the Grand Master in approving the consolidation of these Lodges and in designating Welco!Jle
Lodge No. 255 as the now existing Lodge be approved.
LEE T. MULLEN,
LEWIS· D. COLLINGS,
GERALD W. p AGE.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

638

639

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the Most Worshipfi1l Grand Lodge of California:
Your Commitee on By-Laws is pleased to report that twenty-three
Lodges of this jurisdiction have deemed it advisable to increase their
fees for the degrees: Vallee de France Lodge No. 329 to $100.00; Sunrise
Lodge No. 522 to $100.00; Manchester Lodge No. 585 to $80.00; Normal
Heights Lodge No. 632 to $80.00; Naval Lodge No. 87 to $75.00; Solano
Lodge No. 229 to $75.00; Anchor Lodge No. 273 to $75.00; Balder Lodge
No. 393 to $75.00; Rising Light Lodge No. 397 to $75.00; Bay View Lodge
No. 401 to $75.00; Moneta Lodge No. 405 to $75.00; Kerman Lodge No.
420 to $75.00; Standard Lodge No. 440 to $75.00; Rockridge Lodge N:o.
468 to $75.00; Vallejo Lodge No. 487 to $75.00; Utopia Lodge No. 537
to $75.00; Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569 to $75.00; West Adams Lodge
No. 565 to· $75.00; Sunnyside Lodge No. 577 to-$75.00; Valley Forge
Lodge No. 587 to $75.00; Lynwood Lodge No. 600 to $75.00; Jordan
Lodge No. 654 to $75.00; Oxnard Lodge No. 341 to $50.00. Having .in
mind increased living and operating costs and also the high wages being
paid, it appears this is wise procedure. It should better balance the
income to the general Lodge expenses.
The following Lodges changed their By-Laws as to time of stated
meetings or place of meetings: Alcatraz Lodge No. 244, Kilauea Lodge
No. 330; Bay View Lodge No. 401; Maui Lodge No, 472; El Segundo
Lodge No. 507; Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535; James A. Garfield
Lodge No. 566; Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598.
. Evergreen Lodge No. 259 amended its By-Laws to provide for stated
meetings falling on holidays, and King Solomon's Lodge No. 260 adopted
the Uniform Code of By-Laws.
Three Lodges decreased their dues from $12.00 to $9.00: Inyo Lodge
No. 221; Normal Heights Lodge No. 632, and Selma Lodge No. 277.
Harding Lodge No. 584 reduced its fee for the Degrees from $75.00
to $50.00.
All amendments and By-Laws subm.itted by the thirty-seven Lodges
were in proper form, certified and in accord with Masonic law and re"
ceived the approval of the Grand Master.
We recommend the adoption of this report approving the amendments
referred to herein.
Respectfully submitted,
OAKLEY K . MORTON,
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY,
CECIL M. PRIOR,

M. JAY JENSEN,
Committee.

Adopted.
The Grand Master presented M. W . Lem S. Allen, Grand
Master of Masons in Nevada, a personal friend of many years.
standing, and at Brother Wood's invitation the distinguished guest
delivered a brief but inspiring talk on " Masonry and Democracy."
At 4 :40 p. m. Grand Lodge called off until 10 :00 o'clock
Wednesday morning.

3Jn ~ranb JLobge
MORNING SESSION
Wednesday, October 13, 1943.
Grand Lodge was ~ailed on at 10 :00 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The Invocation was delivered by the V. Rev. Grand Chaplain,
following which the Minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Tuesday, October 12, 1943, were read by the Grand Secretary and were approved .by Grand Lodge.

REPORT OF GRAND LODGE WEEK ACT IVITIES
COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipfi1l Grand Master, Officers and Members of the Grand
Lodge :
Brethren:
Due to circumstances beyond control, your Activities Committee
was unable to arrange for the traditional "Get Together Dinner," which
in past years, h"ii.s become an institution in Grand Lodge. ·
·
However, we feel that the substitution of the musical and smoker
held at ·the Scottish Rite Auditorium was a marked success. There were
about 1,200 present, and the fine lively program seemed to appeal to all.
Your committee felt that in these times every effort should be made
to conserve expenses. At its last annual communication, the Grand
Lodge allocated $2,000.00 to the Activities Committee. The cost of entertainment, like ·e verything else, has increased but we are happy to report
that the entire cost of the activities for the week, will run a little under
$1,500.00. The itemized statement of all expenses will be in the hands
of the Grand Secretary by Thursday.
Your committee again wishes to thank the San Francisco and East
Bay Inspectors, the Masters and Wardens Associations, and all others
who assisted during the week. We especially wish to commend the
Grand Secretary and his assistant Brother Oliphant, for their help and
council, and the invaluable assistance rendered by them to the committee
at all times.
We wish also to thank our Grand Master for his courtesy and cooperation, and his very gracious attitude in the matter of arrangements
of the several activities which came within the scope of your committc,e.
Sincerely and Fraternally,
R UDOLPH MOHR, JR.,

Chairman.

The report was ad~pted and referred to the Finance Committee.

640

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CLANDE.STINE
MASONRY

Whereas, The Masons of California have contributed to the War
Relief Fund with the assurance that the purpose of such fund was to
assist Lodges financially unable to meet needs occasioned by war conditions; to aid worthy service members and their families; and help visiting
brethren in our midst; and
Whereas, There has been expended from that fund the sum of $10,000.00 which was foreign to the purposes for which the fund was created,
as follows:
$5,000.00 to United Service Organizations.
$2,500.00 to the American Red Cross.
$2,500.00 for distressed Masons -in China.
Be It Resolved, That the War Relief Fund be reimbursed in the
sum of $10,000.00 for these expenditures and that the said sum be drawn
from the funds of Grand Lodge which are available for charity and outside agencies upon the order of the Grand Master.
MARK A. SAWRIE.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of the
Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc., for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1943.
RECEIPTS
Oct. 1, 1942, balance on hand (cash and securities)
$102,027.87
From rentals ......................................................................$ 44,467.00
interest and dividends ..........................................
5,261.64
sale of junk ..............................................................
7.76
premium on sale of securities ...............:..........
2,124.49
sale of power ........................................................
827.51
52,688.40
i;

$154,716.27
DISBURSEMENTS
Taxes, Real Estate ........................................ ,...................$ 8,406.72
295.49
Social Security, Old Age Benefit ................
351.30
Social Security, Unemployment Reserve ......
430.20
Victory and withholding ..................................
5,475.71
Expense ................................................................................
1,029.00
Insurance, war damage ....................................................
410.47
"
fire and casualty ..........................................
Salaries ................................................................................ 11,797.04
Dividends ............................................................................ 9,875.92
September 30, 1943, balance (cash and securities)
MASONIC TEMPLE

Adopted.

38,071.85
$116,644.42

AssocIATION OF CALIFORNIA,

Inc.

641

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge. of California:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report 8S .
follows:
Since the last report its activities have been varied and its correspondence heavier than ever before. This activity has been in the line
of giving out correct information as to the character of these spurious
.a ctivities and awakening true Masonry to the existence of the false and
to some of the methods to be employed in its suppression.
As to the status of the Clandestine Lodges, the movement is no different than has been previously reported excepting that there is a little
more prosperity in the Lodges than was th(! case last year. This may lead
to a growth in membership, but if it continues to be among the classes
heretofore appealed to, Masonry has nothing to be disturbed over. So far
as reported to the co~mittee, to date, no new Lodges have been started.
The example cited in last year's report of a Masonic publication
carrying an article on Clandestine Filipino Masonry extended itself in
two more directions during the ·year. Substantially the same article appeared in the official organ of the Grand Lodge of Washington. No
information could be obtained as to where the article originated or who
furnished it to the editor. Our Grand Secretary promptly informed the
Grand Lodge of Washington that this kind of Masonry was not recognized
and we were assured that it would not be repeated. The committee asked
the editor of the 'publication for a correction but to date has received no
information concerning such a correction.
The article was later reproduced in a Masonic paper published in
Los Angeles. The editor was contacted, admitted his mistake and has
agreed to publish an article to be prepared by the committee.
The editor of the paper which first published the article .w as then
contacted and in the issue of that publication for June, 1943, there
appeared in its editorial comment the statement that the material in this
article did "not square with the facts concerning matters which the
craft in California is endeavoring to stamp out concerning spu.rious
activity."
Not being able to trace the ongm or source of this activity in the
Masonic press, and because the headquarters of this seemingly current
activity was stated to be in the Masonic Temple at West Los Angeles,
your chairman visited our Lodge meeting in that Temple. The Master
informed him that there were no such Filipino Lodges meeting in that
Temple and never had been. When told of the reason for the inquiry,
the Master said that the only incident connected with the Temple which
'could possibly give credence to the statement made in the article of a
large gathering of so-called Masons there was that about two years ago
some Filipinos had rented the dance hall on the ground floor and had
held a dance there. This was apparently the Masonic activity claimed
by the Filipinos and is a typical example of many of the will-o-the-wisps
this committee had . to chase to earth. We trust this will furnish the
period to this incident and its much publicised much-ado-about-nothing.
Another subject mentioned in last year's report was the possibility
of chartering some Lodges to work in the Spanish language in order to
combat any substantial growth in the Mexican clandestine activity. This

643

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

suggestion was based upon the action of the Grand Lodge of Texas in
authorizing its Lodges to confer degrees in the Spanish language when
certain requirements of the constitution were complied with. During
the year correspondence with the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of
Texas has developed that this legislation in Texas has been repealed
because of the fact that apparently it was not taken advantage of by the
Lodges. In this connection no information could be gleaned as to
whether the power to confer degrees in the Spanish had in any way
curbed this clandestine activity in Texas.
The Grand Lodge of Texas some years ago appointed a committee
headed by one of their Past Grand Masters to stamp out this activity in
Texas. Attempts to obtain details of the work of such committee for
the guidance of this committee has to date not been successful. So far
as can be ascertained, the one thing apparently accomplished by that
committee- was to cause the removal of the headquarters of one of the
spurious grand lodges from Texas to New York. As to the effect of
that committee's work on subordinate bodies and individuals nothing has
been obtained for the guidance of this committee.
Another line of investigation carried out during the past year has
been to ascertain if these spurious organizations have been in any way
connected with subversive activities. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has from time to time contacted the committee in this regard but
so far no connection has been uncovered. The Bureau has cooperated
willingly in this work and the committee has furnished information concerning the location and personnel of some of these so-called lodges.
The balance of the activities of the committee during the past year
has been educational in uncovering these activities to individuals. No
fraud upon our members or others has developed during the year.
The membership of Grand Lodge is again reminded that no regular
Mason shall have Masonic intercourse with a clandestine body or a member thereof either by recognizing such Lodge or admitting any of its
members to his own Lodge. The most effective suppression of this
activity is by not acknowledging its existence.
A card file of the information gathered by this committee is being
prepared for the Grand Secretary. Additional information secured at a
late date has prevented the completion of this file at the time of this
report. However, it will be completed and furnished to the Grand Secretary at an early date.
Respectfully submitted,

and the chairmen and members of committees enumerated in Section 70
of the Ordinances, who are actually in attendance at Grand Lodge.
Compensation of members is fixed in Section 68 of the Ross Digest
as being twice the single first-class one-way railway fare, plus Pullman
sleeper where necessary. As has been the custom for many years, no
compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate
vicinity, nor where the prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00.
We have computed the transportation rates from all points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the pay roll with
the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentials. The amount required to meet transportation costs as provided
by the Constitution, for the 1943 Communication is as follows:

642

E.

WARREN
LIBBY,
JOHN ALPERS,
GAYLE HAUGHTON,
ALFRED P. DAVIES,
FRED P. ROULLARD.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
Td the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 94th annual communication of Grand Lodge:
Those entitled to compensation are the duly accredited representatives
of each Lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand Master, Officers of Grand Lodge

Grand Lodge Officers ........................... ,....$ 523.40
Past Grand Masters ....................................
432.60
Committees .................................................. · 763.96
Inspectors ...................................................... 2,525.80
Representatives ............................................ 12,399.76
Total .................................. .'.........................., ..$16,645.52
Thanks is again due to Past Master Louis Sutter, Chairman of your
Credentials Committee, and the Anglo California National Bank of San
Francisco for making the necessary arrangements so that members may
cash thei; checks in this building at the close of the Grand Lodge session.
Checks will be ready for distribution following the election of the Junior
Grand Warden Friday ·morning. Checks not called for will be mailed
to those entitled to them by the Grand Secretary.
Respectfufty submitted,

.w.

JOHN
DAVEY,
LoYD CAMPBELL.

Report adopted and referred to the Finance Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand_ Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report of its activities during the past year, together with its recommendations.
Last year your committee came into possesion of the Roster, ByLaws, and Minutes of the Midway Island Square and Compass Club, and
have also recently received a copy of the By-Laws and roster of members
of the Wake Island Square and Compass Club. During the year we
have endeavored to contact each member of these clubs who is affiliated
in this jurisdiction, and hope eventually to have a f~ll and .comple~e
story of their personal and fraternal experiences while serving their
country on these two outposts of the United States. The Midway Island
Club had a total recorded membership of 132, and of that number 47
were from California Lodges. Wake Island Club had a membership of
53, with 16 of them from California Lodges.
Our correspondence with the members and their Lodges has disclosed
the fact that a relatively high percentage of the members enrolled on
both rosters had been suspended by their Lodges in years past for non-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

payment of dues. The very nature of their work, in places far removed
from the mainland, has resulted in their more or less losing touch with
their home community, and as a natural consequence, they have failed
or neglected to keep in good standing with their Lodges.

town of Keddie was named, was a member of Plumas Lodge No. 60, at
'Quincy.
L. A. Woolley, who became a life member of Mt. Moriah Lodge No.
44 of San Francisco. was one of California's most energetic and useful
citizens. He was a member of the Society of California Pioneers, and an
active member of the San Francisco Vigilante Committee of 1856. In
1913, at the age of 84 years, he wrote and published his experiences in
California. From this publication we learn many interesting facts connected with the formation of the Vigilantes of 1856, and his work throws
some highly informative side lights upon the activities of that organization
during its stormy career. His entire life history is too long to be included
in this report.
The only member of the famous "Jay Hawker Party" who. was a
Mason, was John Gollar, who afterwards became a citizen of Los Angeles, and engag·ed in the blacksmith business. He was a member of
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42.
For many years your committee has endeavored to obtain a good
photograph of Chief Winnemucca, without success. But just before completing this report, we learn that we will soon receive an authentic picture
of the old Chief, dressed in his usual spectacular regalia, part Indian .:i:i:id
part white man clothes, with a high hat, feathers, and a miscellaneous <;ollection of "tinsel show and a' that."
You will remember that the old Chief frequented Susanville in the
very early days, and had learned from someone a number of our signs,
including our· signal of distress. And it is related that he greatly embarrassed the Masons of that vicinity on many occasions when he would
give these signs in the presence of non-Masons.
·
Some of the descendants of our first Grand Master, Jonathan D.
Stevenson, are preparing a rather extensive family hist~ry of .our distinguished brother, and we feel sure we shall learn many mterestmg facts
having to do with his long, and at times, stormy career; facts which have
never before been published. We are looking forward with much interest
to the completion of this history of our colorful first Grand Master.
During the year we have received much valuable information relative to
his early Masonic career in the state of New York
Nat Vise was a member of at least four California Lodges. He was
well-known in the latter part of 1849 and the beginning of 1850 to the
residents of San Francisco. He ran a fashionable eating house on
Kearny street, and in his advertisements he always signed his name "Nat
Vise, alias Bear Hunter." He did not make a success of his San
Francisco business.
Giving up his business, he left on a hunting expedition in the region
of Four Creeks, in 1852, and was caught in the flood waters and forced
to remain until the waters receded. He built a log cabin in the vicinity
of what is now Visalia, and remained there during the winter. It is said
that Visalia was named for him. Later he kept a restaurant in San
Diego, in partnership with one, Jerry Pond ; and, there got "religion"
and became an exhorter of the most rabid variety. He was an excellent
marksman, well liked by all who knew' him, being warm hearted and
open-handed. He left his mark on many locations in this State.
We are indebted to Brother James B. Murray, a member of Westwood Lodge No. 501, for a most exhaustive and detailed history of
Brother Saschel Woods, the first Master of Western Star Lodge No. 2.
Among other things, he relates the circumstances attending the surrender
of the Mormon commander in a town .called Far West, in the State of

644

One member on Wake Island had been suspended for non-payment
of dues, and just before the fall of the Island had written his Lodge inquiring as to the amount of money necessary to.put him in good standing,
expressing his desire to be reinstated, and that upon receipt of word from
the Secretary as to the. proper amount demanded by the Lodge, he would
immediately remit. Before the Secretary could communicate with him
he was a prisoner of war in the hands of the Japs. His Lodge, recognizing his earnest desire for reinstatement, and his inability to communicate
with the Lodge immediately reinstated him-a fraternal ad which will
'ultimately be fully appreciated by the brother in question.
In the letters thus far received from the members of both clubs, are
found many expressions of appreciation to those responsible for the
establishment and maintenance of the clubs. There being practically no
means of entertainment on the Islands, the clubs afforded a convenient
and congenial place to meet, engage-in games, and to mak;e friends with
members of the craft from so many sections of the Union. It enabled
them to keep the Masonic touch. Thus did the clubs fill a very definite
need on the part of these men so far from home and acquaintances.
·
During the past year we have earnestly endeavored· to complete the
life history of many of our veteran members. We have divided that
work among the seve_ral members of the committee, and some are still
engaged in an effort to bring this part of our work to a close. We have
also carried on a rather extensiye series of correspondence with Lodges
and committees of foreign jurisdictions throughout the United States and
Canada. Many Grand Lodge history committees have greatly assisted us
in obtaining much valuable information in regard to our early day Masons.
We have also received numerous inquiries from other Grand Lodge committees, soliciting our assistance in tracing the Masonic and personal experiences of some of their early day members who were for a time residents of California. In some instances the research involved persons and
events as early as 1849. We have been pleased to render this assistance to
other jurisdictions.
Briefly, we have included in this report some additional information
with respect to early day Masons and others. Dr. Obed Macy, a Mason
from Indiana, had a rather hectic experience in crossing the plains en
route to California, with his wife and eight children. They left Indiana
in April 1850. After being on the trail some time, a daughter was stricken
with cholera one morning, and passed away that night. They stopped in
Salt Lake City two months, to rest and recuperate their stock as well
as themselves. On resuming their trip to the west, disaster strucJ.c again.
For some reason, not ascertained, they lost all their animals, which necessitated them walking the last 400 miles to El Monte, California, where
they settled. Macy's first venture in El Monte was a crop of onions,
raised and shipped to the San Francisco market, from which he received
a handsome profit. He afterwards moved to Los Angeles and became the
owner of the Bella Union Hotel, which, for years was the gathering place
for members of the craft in that southern Pueblo. He was an ardent
Mason, and his acts of Masonic charity were many and varied. He died
in Los Angeles, July 9th, 1857.
Arthur W. Keddie, a civil engineer, who surveyed a portion of the
route for the Western Pacific Railway Company, and after whom the

645

646

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Missouri, following an embryonic civil war. Colonel Hinkle, in command
of the beleaguered Mormon company, presented his sword and side arms '
to Brother Woods, thus ending a situation which for some time bid fair to
result in bloodshed.

Today, as motorists speed along the new highway, between Los
Gatos and Santa Cruz, they may see near the half way point, a trail
leading to Glenwood and McKiernan's Resort on the old highway. The
latter place was once some of Mountain Charley's property.
In 1859, five years after his bear fight, he joined Santa Cruz Lodge
No. 38, later becoming a member of San Jose Lodge No. 10, which
affiliation he maintained for the rest of his life. In 1878 Mountain
Charley built his famous mansion on San Augustine street, San Jose. He
died in 1892. It is interesting to note• that all of Mountain Charley's
relatives, with the exception of his two sons, were Roman Catholics. His
two sons followed their father's way of thinking, and were members of
the fraternity.
When he was on his death bed, strong persuasion and pressure were
exerted to induce Charley to foreswear Masonry, and return to the
church. He steadfastly maintained that he had lived as a Mason, and
intended to die as one. He was buried in San Jose Oak Hill Cemetery,
under the auspices of San Jose Lodge No. 10.
John Judson Ames, who in maturity stood six feet, six and ohe half
inches tall, and weighed 240 pounds, was born in the State of Maine. Bis
father sent him as second mate, on a trip to Europe in the early '40's.
On the return trip, a rather tough set of characters gained possession
of the boat, and started trouble. Ames struck one of the ringleaders on
the chest, the blow felling him dead at his feet. Ames was tried for
manslaughter, and because of his size and strength, was found guilty.
President Tyler later became interested in the case and pardoned Ames.

When Wakenda Lodge No. 52 was organized at Carrollton, Missouri, Brother VI/ oods presented the Hinkle sword to the Lodge, and it
has since been used by the tylers guarding the outer door.
The first two rules adopted by that Lodge give some inkling of the
community and the times, at least in that part of the country. They were:
Rule 1. "That no brother shall be present in the Lodge and remain
in a state of intoxication, under penalty of expulsion."
Rule 2. "No profane swearing shall be allowed in the Lodge room
at any time, under penalty of expulsion."
The Santa Cruz Mountain country has produced more than its share
of pioneer "characters," a few of whom even became involved in international difficulties. Among them were Captain Isaac Graham, uncle of
Billy Ware; Joe Majors and Henry Naile; all of whom are today relegated
to the a\most forgotten pages of history, and the public remembers only
one of the venturesome souls who, in the early days, engaged in logging
and sawmill activities in 'the redwood section of the county: Charles McKiernan, popularly known as "Mountain Charley."
He was born in Ireland in the year 1825, and like so many of his
countrymen, was brought up in the Roman Cathlolic faith. As he grew
up and began to shift for himself, he abandoned the faith of his fathers,
intent upon doing his own thinking on all matters spiritual, social and
political. As a very young man he joined the British army and went to
Australia as a Quartermaster. Upon hearing of the discovery of gold in
California, he abandoned his army career and headed for America, arriving in San Francisco on the El Dorado in the year 1849.
He did some mining, but soon came to the conclusion that California, with its tremendou·s wealth of natural resources, offered a much
better and quicker way to acquire a financial competency. He therefore
went into the lumbering business in Santa Cruz and Santa Clara counties.
His fair dealings in business, his sympathetic helpfulness and high integrity,
won for him many friends, and insured for him a lasting place in the affections of all who came in contact with him.
The event that brought Mountain Charley to the attention of the
entire State took place in the year 1854. Charley and a friend named Taylor,
were walking through the forest, presumably on a hunting trip. Suddenly,
and without warning, they found themselves confronted with a huge
grizzly bear, in no mood to be trifled with. According to one story, a
shot was fired, and the bear, wounded, made for Charley, who was compelled to use his empty gun as a club. The bear flicked it out of his
·hands as · though it were a toothpick, at the same time making another
pass that opened a great hole in his skull. He hit the ground, presumably
dead, while Taylor made for safer ground, and the bear disappeared.
Later on help arrived, and Charley was taken to a hospital in. San
Jose. The physician in charge patched the hole in his skull with a plate
fashioned from two silver dollars. From that time on, to people who did
not know his proper name, he was known as "the man with the silver
skull." Charley was further immortalized when a giant redwood tree
and a winding, tortuous road through the mountains were named after
him-Mountain Charley Tree, an? Mountain Charley Road.

Following the gold rush to California, he arrived in San Francisco
penniless. Being a man of energy, he · borrowed a push cart and em- .
barked in the transporation business, moving baggage from the boats.
His first fee was 25 cents, a coin which he kept until his death. He was
sent to San Diego to advocate the division of the State, and Senator
Gwinn backed him financially in the operating of a newspaper in that
town. During this time he made a trip to San Francisc;o, leaving the
paper in the hands of Lieut. George Derby, the latter changed the entire
political policy of the paper, and Derby facetiously described an imaginary
encounter with Ames, when he returned to San Diego. •
Soon after the death of his wife, a storm destroyed his home. Following this calamity, the marker on his wife's grave was mutilated by
some vandal. These events seemed to make him lose his grip on life,
and he turned to the inordinate use of intoxicating liquor. He afterwards
established the San Bernardino Herald, which venture was not a success.
The press, one of the first to come to California, is now owned and
operated by the Inyo Independent. His was a rather tempestuous and
stormy career. He was truly a product of times. He was a member of
San Diego Lodge No. 35.
Here is the story, wherein a blackball in a California Masonic
Lodge played a very important part in a murder case. John H. Boyle,
a lawyer in the town of Quincy, in 1913, petitioned Plumas Lodge No.
60 for the degrees ' of Masonry. His petition was rejected by black ball.
This action by the Lodge provoked intense hostility and resentment on
the part of Boyle against all members of the Lodge, and particularly
against F. G. Hail, whom he suspected of blackballing him.
Shortly after his rejection he asked Hail, in the presence of others
if he was present at the Lodge when his petition 'was rejected. Hail
replied that he was, whereupon Boyle denounced him as the one who
had blackballed him, angrily applying approbrious epithets, and threat-

648

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ening to "get him." Upon other occasions Boyle violently abused Hail
in severe and .scurrilous terms, and for many · months Boyle continued
his intense investigation to find the identity of the individual who had
. frustrated his attempt to join the Masonic fraternity.

. He took a course in assaying and mining engineering in San Francisco. In 1887 he was appointed Assistant Adjutant General for Nevada.
His powder-smoke days were over. He died April 20th, 1920, while in
charge of mining property in this State. He had become a member of
Mission Lodge No. 169, of San Francisco. During his residence here he
became deeply and sincerely religious, and married. His step-daughter
was the wi~e of our Masonic brother, Richard Jose, the noted singer,
and thus briefly narrated are a few of the facts in the life of this courageous and spectacular character, who, on so many occasions carried his
very life in his six-shooter.

However, he still suspected Hail as being the person responsible,
and continued to denounce him with more and more violence. At last
they met and the tempers were at a high pitch, and the result was the
death of Boyle. Hail was tried for murder, but eventually acqquitted.
This is the only case of record in California, wherein a Masonic blackball
was the cause leading to so unfortunate an encounter.
This is a sketch of a man; who, if his lot had been cast in more
conspicuotts surroundings, would· probably have ra·n ked with Bat Masterson, the Earp Brothers, and a few others of equal note· for fearless courage.
This man was Oliver Roberts, and remained throughout his career
a consistent supporter of law and order. Before he was 21 he had lived
a whole life of adventure and violence, but to his dying day his record
was not marred by crime for crime's sake. His most hectic experiences
took olace in Darwin, in Inyo County, California, and also at Looko1;1t,
located fourteen miles from Darwin. The principle period involved was
during the seventies, following the decline of that rather short lived
rollicking camp called Panamint.
Before he reached Darwin, he had worked as a fireman on the rai~­
road between Winnemucca and Wadsworth , Nevada. Later he had his
wages stolen from him by a friend whom he trusted. He finally b~at
his way south and started on the long trek across the desert to Darwm,
which place he reached more dead than alive. Being of slight stature
·the trip was too much for his endurance, and he wa_s forced _to .go to
bed where he was in a delirious condition for several days, and 1t was
a n'ionth before · he could hobble around. He then decided to see the
town and to rest his weary body he entered a saloon to sit down. A
would-be bad man while under the influence of liquor saw him, and
fancied h.e had a grievance against the boy, whom he had never seen in
his life nevertheless he knocked him down with his sixshooter and
kicked him viciously while he was down. Covered with blood young
Roberts crawled· back to his room. A number of men who had witnessed
the brutal assault visited him, to ascertain his condition after the brutal
assault. Finding him in no immediate danger, they departed, and shor~ly
afterwards a shot was heard, and his assailant, Mott, became the chief
figure at a funeral.
Roberts met an old friend, Ned Reddy, whom he had known in
Rhode Island. In order to protect himself he soon learned to handle a
pistol, in which he became adept. He was shot at and wou~de~ many
times during his career in Darwin, and was com~elled to kill m . s~lf­
defense. · Roberts engaged in several gun fights m defense of mmmg
property during the union troubles in Darwin, and at times seemed to ~e
leading a charmed life. No task appeared to be too dangerous for this
boy, who had running gun fights _with claim jumpers, w_a s ambushed by
hostile Indians, one of whom he killed. He was shot at m the _dark by a
Mexican the bullet burning his neck. He squared accounts with a man
who ref~sed him food on the remembered walk from Mojave. At one
time he chased a Mexican h e tried to arrest, jumped on the man in a
hole while a knife menaced him, and brought him in a prisoner. He
worked for the Wells Fargo Company as shot gun messenger, but his
reputation as a crack shot and a fearless defender of his employers property saved that company many hold-ups.

649

The facts contained in this sketch were taken from "Tales of the
Pioneers," by W. A . Chalfant, a member of this Committee. The historical writings of our good Brother Chalfant are uniformly accurate and
trustworthy.
Here is a detailed account of the experiences of one of our California
Masons, taken from "Behind the Rising Sun," by James R. Young 1941
p. 203-"This is the spy story to stop all spy stories."
'
'
M~rk A. Pierce, a prominent Los Angeles, California, business man
was seized at Kobe, Japan, and held for investigation eleven days. His
original detention was based on taking photographs as the Japanese
boat on which he was a passenger was sailing down the river from
Shanghai. He was a movie camera fan, and even his shots of the ship's
captain playing deck tennis with passengers were interpreted by the
police as violating Military Secrets Law.
His Rotary pin placed him .under suspicicion, since Japanese police
believe · that Rotary- which is known to them as Rotary Internationale·
is a part of the Third Internationale, operating out of Russia.
. His Shrine pin made matters worse. Japanese police claim the Masonic
and Shrine movements originate in Paris, and are Jewish revolutionary
movements . or organizations designed to overthrow established governments.
. Further search of Pierce' s baggage, of which he had a great deal,
since he was on a world tour, revealed a small black notebook with
cryptic designations such as, G. M., U. S. S., A. T . & · T., G. E ., etc.
Police charged it was a secret code book he was carrying. An explanation
that they were designations of his stock broker in Los Angeles was not
sufficient to remove their deep suspicion that they had caught the mastermind of a world-wide espionage ring. They also found among his effects
a gold police badge, an honorary shield presented him by the Governor
of California after he had served a term as one of the City of Los
Angeles police commissioners. This only gave them the idea that they
had caught a state-police spy, officially accredited to the California government. They questioned him at length as to his Kentucky Colonelship,
evidence of which they found in his papers.
That he was a naval spy was a charge leveled against him when
it was discovered that he was a Commodore of the San Pedro Yacht
Club. His position was not helped when it was discovered 'that he was
an ex-member of the California Legislature.
After eleven days and nights of quizzing by eight officials, they released him with a fine e>f 30 Yen-about $7.00. He had violated 30 yen's
worth of military secrets by filming the banks of the Yangtze - River,
already long familiar to any r eade_r of the National Geographic or any
other illustrated magazine.
The Pierce case finally became an issue with the Imperial household
and Foreign .Minister. High officials were somewhat abashed and cha-

650

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

grined when they learned that Pierce's uncle had once been decorated by
the Jap.anese Emperor for his religious work, and for his helpfulness to
Japanese people in California.
We again respectfully urge all Lodge secretaries to become more
history conscious, and to more fully record current Masonic events,
whether at the time considered of any real significance or not. Our
acts of today become the history of tomorrow. Remember there isn't
such a thing as an isolated historic event. Events of only apparent local
significance may be either directly or indirectly presently, or remotely
related to or connected with events of far greater moment. It is highly
desirable that the Lodge minutes contain in some detail Masonic events
and the part played by individual members of the Lodges in those events.
The future student of our history must, of necessity in the main,
depend upon the official records as contained in our minute books.
Therefore reasonable detailed recording will greatly aid in the proper
interpretation of local Masonic activities.

At the last annual communication of Grand Lodge

the sum of

$~50._00 was appropriated for the use of the committee. Our actual exi~nd1tur~s have o_nly amounted to $64.56, leaving a balance of $85 44 of
·~1 ~ta b~ppropnated.

Therefo_re, it i~ felt by your committee that it
.e .a e to adequately function durmg the coming year with an ;p
propnat10n of $100.00.
.
WI

·\Ye hereby submit the following recommendations and move their
a d opt10n:
(1)

Tha~ the Com~ittee on Masonic History be continued for the
ensmng Masomc year..

(2) That the sum of $100.00 be appropriated and set aside for the
use of the said committee.
'
Respectfully submitted,

Again permit us to urge the Lodges, particularly those in the mountain districts, where the fire hazards are great, to immediately take steps
to provide vaults or other adequate fire-proof repositories for their precious records. It only takes one fire to forever destroy your records. Some
of the Mother Lode Lodges have provided vaults, where their books and
documents are safely kept, thus insuring to posterity their records, which
cannot othewise be duplicated.
A very constructive suggestion has been advanced by our Junior
Grand Warden, Laurence C. Kelley, with respect to the older charters
and Lodge records, including the original by-laws containing the signatures of members .. He cites the fact that Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 of
Los Angeles, has recently photostated the original charter and by-laws.
He · proposed that Grand Lodge, enact legislation permitting a Lodge ·to
operate under a photostated copy of the charter or some other certified or
authenticated copy, and allow the Lodges to carefully preserve in a safe or
fireproof place the original charter, with the further provision that such
charter must be produced at the time of the annual meeting, and afso
at the installation of officers.
From my own experiences in visiting practically every Lodge in the
State during the past fifteen years, and realizing the great fire hazards
existing in the vast majority of the Lodges, your committee heartily
endorses this recommendation of the Junior Grand Warden.
Move that this be referred to the Committee on Charters with instructions to consider the same report their finding at the next annual
communication of Grand Lodge.
In order that your committee may secure a comprehensive historical
record of every member of this Grand Jurisdiction serving in the armed
forces during the present conflict, or any civilian member serving his
country in a worthwhile or outstanding manner, either at home or
abroad, we are again asking the constituent Lodges, or their Masters, to
appoint a competent and enthusiastic member to keep up-to-date until
they arc all discharged, a full and complete report on each individual so
serving. The information desired to consist of his Masonic, private and
army or naval activities, together with his photograph, clippings from
local or national papers and periodicals, bulletins of Lodges visited during
his travels, etc.
·
To allow for uniform reports from all Lodges, the record should be
compiled on 3-hole loose leaf white binder paper, size l lx80 inches.

651

· History Exhibit
.(A sample. exhibit of this is 011 d1"splay a t th e M asomc
m the registration room.)

LEON 0. WHITSELL, P.

G. M.,

Chairman.
W. C. ARBUCKLE,

w. A. CHALFANT,

CHARLES E. HAAS
CHARLES R. INGRA~
WILSON
NEWLON:
THOMAS NORRIS,
DAVID TULLOCH,
Guy
GIFFEN,
MILLARD W. YOUNG
MARTIN C. ARTHUR'

E.

J.

.

M1LEs McK. ANDER~oN.

Report adopted and referred to Committee on Polic and
General Purposes; Committee on Charters; Finance Commi?t'ee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC INFORMATION
To the Hon. Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Information has continued its work during
t?e past twe~ve mo?ths, despite the handicaps and disabilities of war condi~i~ns. t 1:he mdcreasmg number of young Masons has greatly increased the
m eres m an demand for Masonic information.

J?urin~ the . year yo?r com~ittee has continued the quiz program method
of d1spensmg mformatton. Five quiz programs have been prepared and
. ~ent out to all Masters of Lodges, covering the following subjects. The
Landmarks of Freemasonry," "Washington the Mason" "Qua· t s' t ·
from M asomc
· H. 1s
· t ory, ,, "The S pint
. . of Freemasonry and • Ma
· mQ
t'ones
Often . Asked."
•
some ues ions
Each progr~m consisted of ten questions and · answers and was composed of material that could be used when non Masons
The extent to which these programs was used wa-s left to ~ered. prestnt.
and ?leasure of _the individual Master. They might be used
ais~;;~~~
meebng, at a dmner that preceded the business meeting or t th
freshment table after the conferring of a degree The 'e t' a
e remight b
d
.
·
n ire program
e use , or questions culled from the program, depending upon

:t

652

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the time available. Some Masters of Lodges where the available work
left open evenings, distributed the questions and answers to s~veral
brethren in advance of the meeting and they were encouraged to make
further research and elaborate upon the answers given. The result w~s
a profitable and entertaining evening's program.
The aim has been made to keep the questions and answers simple
and concise, and above all, entertaining and provocative of further study.
That the committee has succeeded in its efforts is evidenced b~ t~e ?1~ny
letters received from Masters in various parts of the grand Junsd1ct1on
telling of the interest in the programs and the success that has attended
their use. Early in the year a questionnaire was sent out t? all the
Masters inquiring as to the use of the programs and the com?'11ttee was
gratified at the response, showing that the. programs were widely used,
were found informing and thought-provoking, and were generally approved and appreciated.
We have had ~any inquiries from other Grand Lodges regarding
our educational · program and extensive correspondence has resulted.
There seems to be considerable interest in our experiment and c;>ther gra~d
jurisdictions undoubtedly will follow our lead in the preparation of quiz
programs.
Owing to war conditions, it was thought advisable to postpone the
revision of the Manual for another year, but we hope to have a complete
Manual to submit to the next communication of Grand Lodge.
At the last communication of Grand Lodge an appropriation of
$750.00 was made for the work of this committee, of which $533.95 was
disbursed prior to July 31, 1943. An amount of $100.54 was expended
in August, covering the cost of printing and ·mailing Quiz Program No.
9, and incidental expenses for August.
Your committee feels that the results obtained during the past
·year fully justify the continuance of the q\liz programs and recomme1_1ds
that an appropriation ·of $750.00 be made fo~ the work of th~. ensuing
twelve months, to cover expenses of printing, postage, ma1hng and
stenographic services.
Respectfully submitted,
N. PERRY MOE.RDYKE,
DELBERT BERRY,
RICHARD H . CHAMBERLAIN,

c.

GEORGE
JENSEN,
RUDOLPH JENNY,
REYNOLD E. BLIGHT,

Committee.

Report ·was adopted and referred to the Committee on
Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITT EE ON R ETURNS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee on Returns presents herewith an analysis .of the
consolidated returns of the Lodges in this jurisdiction as filed with the
Grand Secretary.

653

During the past year we record:
GAINS
Raised .;....., ..............................................5525
Affiliated .... ~.............................................. 1051
Restored .................................................. 840
LOSSES
vVithdrawn .............................................. 921
Dropped Non-Pay. Dues .................... 997
Died -···--•-······--·----···········-············ ..·---····2298
Dues Remitted ......................................3015
Total Net Membership ......................
129,509
A Ne.t Gain of ......................................
3,203
During the past twelve years we dropped 30,171 members for nonpayment of dues and restored only 6,015, leaving a loss from this source
of 23,846 members.
We also note with regret the loss by withdrawal or resignation of
an average of 1,000 members for the past seven years.
From this large list of former members we believe that many might
be res!o:ed to acti;'e membership if they were apprised of their rights
and pt1v1leges of reinstatement, both as to cost and as to the time limits,
if any, set in each case.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY G. MATHEWSON,
WILLIAM W . McKEE,
ALBERT C. WOLLENBERG,
KENNETH S. THOMSON,
T. M. WIDBY,

E.

\l\TILLIAM
LATHROP,
EDWIN L. EGGER,

Adopted.
Commitee.
For Annual Returns, See Special Statistical Appendix.

REPORT OF TH E TRUSTEE S O F THE MASONIC
CLUBHOUSE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIF ORNIA AT BERKELEY
To the Most W orshipf11l Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Directors of the Masonic Clubhouse of the University
of California presents this annual report covering the past Masonic year.
P roperty Main tenance
The building qnd its furnishings are in excellent condition. More
permanent repairs to the roof were made during this past year together
with miscellaneous maintenance work. The total cost was $1,002:53.
The certified public accountant's statement has been submitted to
your Finance Committee.
T he U niversity Gear ed to the W ar E ffor t
As a direct result of the war your Board of Trustees has been and
is confronted with an entirely new and different set of circumstances
than has existed in any other year. The university student life has been
completely changed with the switch from the semester system to the
quarter system.
The summer quarter ends October 28th. This quarter, from the
standpoint of the clubhouse activity, has been a trying one. The . aggre-

654

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

gate number of students on the campus has been substantially reducedthe greatest decline being in the number of men students in regular
attendance. It was found necessary for the men's and women's Masonic
clubs to consolidate into one club for the summer quarter with an active
membership of forty-five st~dents. They contemplate operating as a
single ·club for the duration. It is expected their membership for the
fall quarter will reach between 75 to 150 students.
A check with university authorities indicates an expected increase
from approximately 6,300 students to 8,500 for the fall quarter. It i~
further expected that of the 8,500 students approximately 2,000 will be
service men. Many GJf these service men are college graduates and some
are members of the fraternity. They are on the campus for a period of
approximately sixteen weeks.
Your Board of Directors has held several meetings and has gone
into the matter of clubhouse activities very thoroughly. At the last
meeting of the board it was the unanimous opinion that:
1. There is a definite need on the campus for clubhouse activity
since many of the other organizations have actually been taken over
by the armed services.
2. Social life on the campus of necessity is presently limited to
Saturday nights and a few free hours during the daytime.
3. The .Purpose for which the clubhouse was built can best be
carried out by gearing the club activities to the present circumstances.
From its inception the clubhouse activities have been supported by
the student membership. The 1941 report to Grand Lodge shows that
students have raised and spent between $2,500 to $3,000 each of the last
few years in support of their activities. These funds were raised through
tnembership fees. Since the membership has been substantially reduced,
your Board fee.ls that in view of the fact that many of the service men
on the canwus are Masons or sons of Masons tl:iat the student budget
should be supplemented by Grand Lodge and has appealed to the Committee on Finance accordingly for $1 ,500 toward supporting this program.
The remaining students who" are members of the clubhouse are willing
and able to sponsor appropriate programs. The record shows there ar e
many club alumni living in the vicinity of the clubhouse who could and
would lend a hand in helping the club members in planning and arranging
worth while activities. Financially they must receive outside s upport.
Your board feels that by making the clubhouse available to affiliated
Masonic service men and Masons on th e campus we will be carrying
out the ultimate objective of the Masonic Clubhouse to its fullest extent. It will tend to make better Masons by keeping those from numerous distant Lodges in touch with Masonic activities during their
stay on the campus; it will maintain the high position of Masonry among
college students and service men from whom Masonic Lodges are glad
to receive petitions; it will provide a Masonic home where the numerous
members of our "Masonic family" can come together and get acquainted,
thus developing worthwhile friendships. The University Clubhouse occupies a strategic place in university life. Making continued use of these
facilities· available to our men in the service is a real contribution to the
war effort. To this end at a special meeting of the Board of Directors
held October 1, 1943, the followin g resolution was unanimously adopted:
" It was" moved seconded and unanimously carried, that the trustees
request the usual 'budget of $7,500 at the Annual Communication of
Grand Lodge, and that an additional amount of $1 ,500 be requested to
enable the trustees to enlarge the program at the clubhouse to take care

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

655

of entertainment of Masonic affiliates now in the service and enrolled at
the university."
Fraternally submitted by order of the Board of Directors.
EDWARD H. SIEMS.

The report was adopted and referred to the Finance Committee.

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC
CLUBHOUSE OF U. C. L.A.
To the Most Worshipfi1l Grand Lodge of California :
As the representative of the Board of Directors of the clubhouse at
the University of California at Los Angeles, I bring you our annual
report.
The expected has happened; on April 1st of this year th e university
took over the major part of our building to u se as a mess hall for Army
cadets. It did not take long to learn that, with an increasing number of
serVice men arriving at the university, the entire building would be required. On May 1st, all of our furnishings went into storage and we
moved our club activities to space rented in the Y. W. C. A. building at
574 Hilgard avenue.
Our very efficient hostess, Mrs. Faith C. Sheldon, having resigned
to go into U. S. 0 . work in Honolulu, we secured the part-time services
of a graduate student, Miss Frances Shanks. She maintains office hours
from 1 to 5 p. m., keeps all records and generally stimulates and coordinates
all club activities. Our members have the same privileges in the building
as do the Y. W. C. A. members themselves.
It is interesting to note that of th e nine persons comprising the
Masonic Affiliate Council which is directly charged with the operation
of club affairs, four are men and three of these, including the president,
are in Navy uniforms.
A letter received from Earl J. Miller, dean of undergraduates, commending the work of the club, is evidence of its effectiveness, and ours
is the strongest and best organized group on the campus today.
For a number of months, nine hundred uniformed men have been
served three hot meals · each day in our building. This requires every
foot of space including the stage, which accommodates one hundred men.
It was necessary for the caterer to spend $18,000.00 and the Army
$10,700.00 for additional ranges, refrigerators, dish washing machines,
etc., to do the job.
A check of these service men indicat es that at least 35 per cent of
them are members of our fraternity or come from Masonic families, and
we are advised that many have expressed their appredation of the fine
facilities afforded them.
Under our agreement with the university, they paid for moving and
storing our person;i.1 property and are to return it to place when the
building is vacated. They pay us a monthly r ental of $800.00. At the
time this rental began, we had on hand $3,096.99 of the $7,500.00 appropriated by Grand Lodge last October for our operations this year. This
amount we immediately impounded and have been paying and will continue
to pay our expenses out of rentals.
Our Board of Directors has adopted a budget for the year 1943-44
a copy of which is attached and made a part hereof. It will be noted that
the budget divides itself into two parts, the expense of carrying on the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

656

657

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

activities of the club itself, an amount of $1,825.00 for the year, and the
expense of the clubhouse property itself, an amount of $4,020.00, depreciation, taxes, gardening, building maintenance, etc.
No one 'knows how long the university will continue to use the property because no one knows when the war will end. If the occupancy
should run through to October 1, 1944, our income from rentals will be
$9,600.00. The difference between our expected expenses and this amount,
i. e., $3,755.00, we propose to place in a contingent reserve to be used
toward restoring the building and furnishings when the property is returned to us. A complete statement of our financial condition is reflected by Brother Reynold E. Blight's report which is attached ;uid made
a part hereof.
Our normal operating budget is $7,500.00. Since we do not know
when the occupancy of the property by the university will terminate and
knowing that we will immediately resume full activities there whenever
it is vacated, we respectfully ~equest that this Grand Lodge appropriate
for our use for the year 1943-44 the sum of $7,500.00 less the amount of
$3,096.99 which we have now impounded. The money appropriated to
be held in a contingent fund by Grand Lodge and only drawn on by us
if necessity requires, which would only be occasioned by the sudden
ending of the war.
Fraternally submitted by order of the Board of Directors,
BEN

G. WRIGHT.

The report was adopted and referred to the Committee on
Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Major Henry C. Clausen, United States Army, chairman of
the Committee on Correspondence presented the report of that
Committee and it was adopted. (See Appendix.)
REPORT OF SPECIAL RITUAL COMMITTEE
To the JIIost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee has carefully examined the report of the Grand
Lecturer and highly commends the thought and efforts of the Ritual
Committee in suggesting amendments which will result in a better presentation of the Ritual. We, therefore, recommend the following:
We concur in the re.c ommendation of the Ritual Committee that the
1941 Monitor, pages 53, 54 and 55, relating to the reception and retirement of the Flag of our Country be revised, as attached herewith, to
comply with the form prescribed. by the resolution adopted by the Congress of the United States.
Your committee heartily approves and concurs in the recommendation,
that the esoteric work of Grand Lodge be amended at set forth . by the
eighteen items of the. Grand Lecturer's report.
We also recommend that the Grand Lecturer's report be amended
to include Item 19, which has the approval of the Grand Lecturer and
Ritual Committee, and which is as follows:
(Esoteric amendment omitted)
Respectfully submitted,
HERJlERT R HARGRAVE,
ALDEN FULKERSON,
GEORGE A. AMBROSE,

Committee.

Proposed Modification of the 1941 Monitor, Pages 53, 54 and 55 Relating
to the Reception and Retirement of the Flag of Our Country
Page 53, paragraph 2, line 9: Strike out last two sentences. In lieu
thereof insert: "As flag is brought into a Lodge, Master arises, calls up
the Lodge and removes his hat with his right hand, holding hat at the
left shoulder, the hand being over the heart. Brethren stand erect and
place right hand over heart as Master places hat· at his shoulder. Master
and brethren, (except Marshal and Deacons), remain with right hand over
heart until flag is placed in its stand."
Page 54, line 11: Strike out commencing with line 11: "Deacons take
rod" to line 1, word "hat" inclusive. In lieu thereof insert: "Deacons
take down rod at the word 'East' and step back two steps, drop rod
diagonally across body to left hand without removing butt of rod from
the floor and place right~ hand over heart. Marshal takes flag up to
East on north side of altar and places it in stand provided. Master puts
on hat and brethren lower right hand quietly to side. Deacons return
rod to right hand, normal position." (Marshal then returns, etc., to end
of paragraph as printed).
Page 55, line 1: Strike out first sentence at top of page. In lieu thereof
insert: "Master takes off his hat with right hand holding it at the left
shoulder, the hand being over the heart. Brethren, (except Marshal and
Deacons), stand erect and place hand over heart as Master places hat at
his shoulder. Deacons at the same time drop rod diagonally across body
.to left hand without removing butt of rod from the floor and place right
hand over heart. All except Marshal and Deacons retain this position
until flag is passed through the door to the tiler." (Marshal goes to
altar, etc., as printed.)
Page 55, first paragraph: Strike out all instructions included in both
sets of parenthesis in this paragraph. In front of and as a part of the
first sentence, insert: "Deacons return rod to right hand, normal position."
(Marshal and Deacons, etc.)
Page 55, three lines from the bottom: Strike out last two sentences,
inserting: "Master puts on hat and brethren lower the hand quietly to
the side as flag· is retired through doorway. Marshal and Deacons after
delivery of flag· return directly to places."

Adopted.

REPORT OF SPECIALTAXATION COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipf11l G·ran.d Lodge of California:

The special Taxation Committee has functioned continuously since
its appointment pursuant to resolution of the 89th Annual Communication
in 1938, and during 1943, the. membership of the committee has not been
changed.
Our recornrnendatiOns are that the subordinate Lodges continue to
pay Social Security and Unemployment taxes in accordance with our
report of 1941, to be found in the proceedings of that year, page 669.
The Committee has held many meetings during the year and have
conferred with your officers of Grand Lodge on many questions. In
addition many queries from subordinate Lodges have been answered by
letter.
On January 15th, 1943, the Committee made a special report to
the Grand Master holding that the Service Men's Moratorium Act had

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

no application to the payment of dues to Masonic Lodges, and also
holding that all Masonic Lodges should pay the Victory Tax. This
report was sent to all Lodges under date of January 20th, 1943, by order
of the Grand Master, and a copy is attached hereto as an exhibit.
Similarly our opiniion is that Grand Lodge and all subordinate
Lodges are subject to the withholding income tax insofar as the wages
of employees are concerned. The Grand Lodge and subordinate Lodges
are themselves exempt from income tax but their employees are subject
to the tax.
In our r'eport for 1942 we called attention to the fact that recent
employment of additional clerical help by Grand Lodge might make it
subject to the State Unemployment Reserves Tax. A ruling has bee~
obtained that the Grand Lecturer is not subject to either the Federal or
State Social Security taxes. The California Department of Employment
has tentatively ruled that the Grand Tiler and Grand Organist will also
not be taxed.
It has been further tentatively ruled by that department that the
Grand Treasurer and his assistant, th.e Chairman of the Correspondence
Committee, the parties who do the clerical work for the Masonic Homes
Endowment Boar'CI, and all persons who receive in excess of $45.00 a
calendar quarter for services in the· boards of relief and employment
bureaus, are to be counted as employees of Grand Lodge and subject
to a tax since January 1st, 1940. The department holds that payment
of an unallocated expense account shall be treated as payment of a wage.
The committee prepared and filed an extended brief with the Department
of Employment, but so far wi.thout beneficial results. These tentative
rulings are of great importance to Grand Lodge in many aspects other
than taxation. On the same line of reasoning the State Employment
Department may next hold that all subordinate Lodges must report
through Grand Lodge and pay taxes accordingly. A complete examination of the relationship of Grand Lodge to various committees and organizations in which it has a deep interest should be made. From a
standpoint of taxation, however, the rulings already made will result in
an assessment of delinquent taxes amounting to approximately $2,500.00.
The Committee recommends to Grand Lodge that it be empowered,
by and with the consent of the Grand Master, to engage as an attorney,
a tax specialist, to present the legal aspects of this matter to the California Department of Employment, and to take such other action legally
as may be necessary to protect the interests of Grand Lodge.
·
Last year the committee recommended, and there was allocated, the
sum of $1,200.00 against a possible assessment for past unemployment
reserves. This fund has not been used. The committee now recommends,
in view of the recent tentative holding of the California Department of
Unemployment, that a new appropriation be made so that a total fund
of $3,500.00 will be available to· meet the threatened assessment for back
. taxes, and any legal expenses that may become necessary.
Because of these pressing matters it is recommended that the committee be continued for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted,

REPORT OF RITUAL COMMITTEE

658

E.

JAMES
HAMMOND,
WALTER PERRY JOHNSON,

R. P. WISECARVER,
Committee.

Report adopted and referred to Committee on Policy and
General Purposes and the Finance Committee.

659

The Grand Lecturer, as Chairman of the Ritual Committee
r_eported on. the resolution relative to the Uniform Accounting
System, which had been referred to the Committee and recommended the adoption of the report.
It was moved, seconded and carried, that the resolution be
referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes to be
r~ported on by that Committee at the next Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.

. REPORT OF NECROLOGY COMMITTEE
MEMORIAL SERVICE
Wednesday, October 13, 1943
Organ Solo-C onsola.tion (Mendelssohn) ............................................................... ..
Inv:ocatibn.,................. _........................................................................... Grand Cha plain

Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of Grana Lodge:
. A ~ear ago at the. close of Grand Lodge we looked forward into a
".ery dim an~ uncer~am future. Since that time there has. been very
little change m the picture. From our Very Worshipful Grand Secretary
I have .learned that nearly nine thousand of our brethren are now in
the service of our beloved country and the end is not yet.
Let us refresh our faith in the future of our nation by recalling those
matchless words of the then citizen James A. Garfield at the' time of
the assassination of President Lincoln when he walked out on the
b~lc?ny of the Ex~hange Building in New York City and, facing that
mt!lmg mob on Fifth A venue, held up his hand and, when they had
quieted so he could be heard, said, "God reigns and the Government at
Washington still lives."
·
Thank God this morning that no truer words can be spoken today
than tho~e. Let us e~ch o~e in truth and sincerity lay hold upon that
beacon light of Scottish Rite Masonry, "Spes mea in Deo est"-My
hope is in God.
In the last year our losses from our Grand Lodge roster are two
h':'ndred and three. On November 22, 1942, Past Grand Master William
Filmer was called to his eternal reward. He had served this Grand
Lodge as Grand Treasurer for many years. Past Grand Master Francis
V. Keesli?g will deliver a eulogy on the life and work of Past Grand
Master Filmer before the close of this report. Worshipful Brother Ellsworth Meyer will give a brief memorial address to close our program.
Brief biographies are as follows:
·

CHARLES ORVILLE BURRELL, Inspector
On July 5, 1943, one of our best beloved Inspectors, Brother Charles
His life
history, all too brief, portrays him as a man of unusual qualities.
He was bo_rn April 19, 1890, in Coo, Johnson County, Nebraska,
the son of Nellie and Charles N. Burrell. When Charles was two and
one-half years old, his parents came to California where he attended the

0. Burrell, was suddenly tra1,1slated from time into eternity.

660

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

public schools, the Alameda High School, and finished his education at
the Santa Clara High School.
Losing his father when he was a boy of fifteen, he did his best to
help his mother raise her family of four sons.
When he was twenty-one years of age, . he b:gan worki~g for _the
A. Block Packing Company and remained with thf1sMfirmBunllt1l tdheJa~:
of his death. He married the youngest daughter o
ary. e an .
Black Preston afld raised two daughters, Mrs. Katherine Perrin and
Betty Louise. He lost one son at the age of five.
On October 21, 1924, he applied for membership in Li~erty Lodge
No. 299 F. & A. M., was initiated December 12th, _1924, and ra1~ed Januar_r
23 1925 He was appointed Senior Steward m 1.926 and served h~s
L~dge ~s Master in 1931. He was· appointed Inspector of Masonic
District No. 54, January 10, 1936.
May I quote from a letter I received August 2, from our Grand
Secretary? "He was appointed Inspector January 10, 1936, on my recommendation when I was assistant Grand Lecturer and he was an exceptionallv efficient and conscientious worker. I was greatly shocked on my
return- to the city to learn that he had died, because I had so~ken at an
officers' meeting in the Santa Clara Valley only a week prevtously and
he had ridden down and back with me. We can very poorly afford to
lose men of the character and ability of Charles Burrell."
From the Secretary of his Lodge. I received the following: "In a
conversation I had with his mother, she informed me that he never
failed to visit her every Sunday evening, no matter what the seaso? ~r
the weather or how rushed he was with his manifold duties." This _is
a most laud~ble commentary on the life of our Brother. As th~ ~aster .
of old, "He went about doing good." God help us to emulate his hfe of
service.

661

GEORGE STODDARD, Grand Bible Bearer
On January 30th, 1943, this Grand Lodge suffered a severe loss in
the death of our beloved Grand Bible Bearer, Worshipful George Sto·d dard. In the words of our most Worshipful Grand Master, "Masonry
lost one of its grand old men with the passing of Worshipful George
Stoddard, Grand Bible Bearer, member and Past Master of Stanislaus
Lodge No. 260 of Modesto."
He was born March 20th 1861; initiated April 27th, 1889; passed
May 23rd, 1889, and raised June 29, 1889. The Secretary of his Lodge
informs me that he had served his Lodge as Master seven times, a marvelous record.
He was born in San Francisco, and attended the public schools there
until he was seventeen years of age. Leaving school at this early age,
he entered the employ of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company. He
came to Modesto as Station Agent in 1888. Leaving the employ of the
railroad company in November of that year, he entered upon a life-long
career as a banker. He retired from active service in 1938, at which
time he was as·s istant vice president, and a member of the advisory board
of the Bank of America.
His funeral services were held in the Shannon Chapel in Modesto,
with Rev. Homer K. Pitman, of San Francisco, and Stanislaus Lodge
No. 206 F. & A. M., officiating.
He was a member of Stanislaus Lodge No. 206 for fifty-four years.
He was a life member and Past High Priest of Modesto Chapter of
R. A. M. and Prelate Emeritus of Modesto Commandery of K. T. No.
57, for fifty-four years he was an active member of Electa Chapter No.

72, 0. E. S.

REV. EDGAR FREDERICK GEE, Past Grand Chaplain

The highest tribute that can be given our deceased Brother is that
here was a man of very fine character. He passed into the realms
beyond the grave, having lived fifty-five years in Modesto, loved and
respected by all who knew him.

Our Reverend Brother passed from time into eternity December
27th, 1942. He was a member of Live Oak Lodge No. 61 F. & A. M.,
Oakland, California.
He was born January 21, 1864. He was Pastor . of ~t. Pe.ter's Epis1 Church in Oakland for nearly a lifetime, termmatmg this relatton~~fpa about s~ven years b~fore his death. He received ~he Thirty-_seco~d
Degree of Scottish Rite Masonory June 10, 1907, ~as mvested _w1thh~ de
ran k o f K . C. C. H . O ctober 18 ' ·1921, and received the Th1rty-t ir
Degree, Inspector General Honorary, December 19th, 1925.
I made special effort to secure his complete Masonic history an_d
something of his life's history, and activities, but in the words of ~is
Secretary, Brother Garibaldi, "It is to be deeplr: regretted that th~ l~f~
history of such a lovable character must be permitted to go unrecor e ·
He demitted from Vesper Lodge No. 584 A . .F . & A. M ., Galesburg,
Illinois and affiliated with Live Oak Lodge, ·April 7th, 1905. He se~ved
our G;and Lodge as Grand Chaplain, 1919, 1920 and 1929. Such IS a
verv brief history of our Brother Reverend Gee.
. I can assure you Brethren, that he was a real Mason and . a
Christian gentleman and I am sure he has received that "".elcome p~aud1t,
"Well done, thou good and faithful servant; enter thou mto the JOY of
thy Lord."

Percival Simpson King was called to his eternal reward October
5th, 1942. May I give you briefly his Masonic history? He was initiated
April 3rd, 1890; passed May 1st, 1890, and raised June 5, 1890, in what
is now Carson Lodge No. 1 of Nevada, and was then in the jurisdiction
of California as Carson Lodge No. 154. He demitted to Yount Lodge
No. 12 of Napa, California, June 19, 1894. He was elected Worshipful
Master of Yount Lodge December 19th, 1896; December 4th, 1897; December 24, 1898, and January 3, 1900. He was appointed Grand Standard
Bearer by. Past Grand Master Frank W . Mixter.
.
From his Lodge and from the city of Napa I have been unable to
get anything of a personal nature that I might incorporate in this eulogy.
From his Brother, ex-Senator Lyman M·. King, I have received some
highlights of his life and work. From him I' quote
"Percival Simpson King, Judge of the Superior Court of Napa
County, California, died at his home in .Napa, October 5th, 1942. The
end came with a heart attack, suddenly, but apparently .without pain to
the victim. His wife, sleeping in an adjoining room, found him lying on
the floor beside his bed in the morning. She had i:iot heard any noise in
the night to indicate anything was wrong.
"Judge King was born in the state of Iowa, in 1866. He was the
son of E. H . King, a Methodist Episcopal preachet, and was himself a

PERCIVAL SIMPSON KING, Past Grand Standard Bearer

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Methodist of high standing, having be.e n a delegate to General Conference,
as the national body of that denomination is known. He was a graduate
of Napa College, predecessor of College of the Pacific, now located at
Stockton and had served in late years as trustee of the institution which
he once 'attended as a student.
·
"After his graduation from college, he studied law while teaching
schools in California ·and Nevada and was well known for his learning·
as a Judge and for his strict integrity, especially in legal circles in the
northern half of the state. His home people appreciated him highly and
elected him four times by large majorities, although a number of local
lawyers of high standing aspired to the place at the several elections.
. "He cherished highly his Masonic affiliation and had sat in the Grand
Lodge and at one time held the place of Grand Standard Bearer, although
he had no aspiration for high office in the Grand Lodge. In welfare
work he was prominent, and in late years gave much time to the Boy
Scouts, holding the highest office in his region at the time of his death.
He believed fully in the idea of bringing up boys in the fear of God and
the law and sought in and out of the courtroom to do what he could
for the' citizenry of the coming generation. During the funeral, held in
the Methodist Church in Napa, all the business houses of the city closed
their doors and the people thronged to the church to pay him honor.
Masons attended in great numbers, as did Boy Scouts of the region. The
address of the day was a remarkable eulogy pronounced by Dr. Tully
Knoles, President of the College of the Pacific.
"His wife survives, as do five children and numerous grandchildren."
Such briefly is a summary of the activities in the life of our Broth~r
K_ing. We must exclaim, "Wha't a well rounded out life of Service!"
Here was a Brother who, in the words of Abou Ben Adherri, "One that
loved his fellow men." May God so sanctify to each one of us the life
of this good man that we may find our greatest joy in serving 'others'."

the Church Divinity School of the Pacific, then at San Mateo. By his
thirty-first year he was a deacon and a year later an ordained minister. From
1906 to 1911 he was the rector of Christ Church, San Jose."
He was rector of St. Stephens Church, in San Francisco, for twenty
years ·and Canon Precentor of Grace Cathedral Church from then until
his death. From his wife I quote the following: "He hated gloomy funerals and always spoke of death as a great adventure. His own choir
boys sang for him, as they preceded him down the aisle 'Hark Hark
My Soul.' His ashes now rest in the grave of his fath~r, Dr. 'Georg~
Wright, in Redlands, California." As I read the many beautiful things
said about him at the time of his death, one thought kept ringing through
my very soul, "He is not dead! He lives! He lives!"
May his life be a benediction and an inspiration to each one of us.

662

REV. GEORGE HENRY BURWELL WRIGHT,
Past Grand Chaplain
On December 12, 1942, many of our brethren were saddened by the
death of our Rev. Brother George Henry Burwell Wright, who passed
away suddenly at his home in Berkeley. He was a member of Ingleside
Lodge No. 630, F. & A. M. He was a charter member of Ingleside
having demitted from Forest Hill Lodge No. 534; initiated January 31st,
1923, passed May 9th 1923, and raised November 28, 1923. He was appointed Grand Chaplain by Past Grand Master Charles M. Wallenberg
in 1929. Canon Wright, as he was known in the Episcopal Church, was
an outstanding man in social work, having been active in Boy Scout Tro()P
No. 16, the Travelers' Aid, the Indian Association, and St. Dorothis
Rest.
He was also a very active member' of the California Historical Society
and in their "Quarterly," following his death, they gave him a very fine
obituary. · From his bereaved wife, Aimee De Turbeville Wright, I .have
received many beautiful tributes and personal touches, a few of which I
shall incorporate in this eulogy.
He was born in Toronto, Canada, April 14, 1875, and with his
parents he moved to Redlands, California, in his early teens. Quoting
from the California Historical Society, "The Canon received his early
scholastic training at the Modell School, Toronto. From Stanford U11iversity, wh~re he graduated in 1898 with an A. B. degree, he entered

663

JUDGE WILLIAM J. MOSSHOLDER, 1852-1943,
Past Master San Diego Lodge
Brother vVilliam J. Mossholder, Past Master of San Diego Lodge
No. 35 F. & A. M., during the years of 1892 and 1893, passed to the Great
Beyond on April 10th, 1943. Masonic funeral services were held April
13th, 1943. Right Worshipful Claude H. Morrison, Deputy Grand Master
of Masons in California, and Rev. John B. Osborn, officiating.
Judge, as he was affectionately known to his many friends and brothers,
received his title by serving as judge of Polk county, Nebraska, as a
young man. He was made a Master Mason, June 29th, 1883, at Osceola,
Nebraska, affiliated with San Diego Lodge No. 35, November 26th, 1887.
Judge Mossholder ,was a Mason for 60 years. He was born August 27th.
1852, the year before the granting of our Charter, in Martinsburg, Ohio.
He attained his law degree at the University of Iowa and a bachelor of
philosophy degree at Nebraska Wesleyan University.
Judge came to San Diego for his health, in December, 1885, and
practiced law here up until two weeks of his passing.
A leader in public, civic and fraternal activities in this community,
Brother Mossholder will be greatly missed for his wise counsel to all
who loved him and respected his truth and sincerity.
He was an upright citizen and a zealous Mason, but our loss is
heaven's gain.
There comes a time in the lives of men, and of Masons, that we
feel the need of a sure and safe anchorage, a haven of rest, a mountain
top of faith. Such a time confronts us now. In the year that has just
ended, we have laid away the mortal bodies of two hundred and three
members of this Grand Lodge. The roster of these brethren will not
be read at this time, but will become a part of the minutes of Grand
~~

.

In addition to this, the roll of our honored dead in this war of
survival is becoming larger every day. It is then very natural for us
to inquire, "Where are they now?" This is the burning question uppermost in the minds and hearts of all our sorrowing loved ones.
For answer to this question let us delve deep into the eternal truths
in the great Light of Masonry. Let us not place our hope in the pihosophy of the ancients and in the man-made doctrines of the sages. Let us
ask the question with the Psalmist of old, "What is man that Thou art
mindful of him? And the son of man, that Thou visitest him?" The
answer comes back to us strong with comfort, "Thou hast made him a

•

664

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and
honour."

Western Star Lodge No. 2:
Albert Victor Fondahn, died March 21, 1943.

Let us read again those matchless words, "He that believeth in me,
though he were dead, yet shall he live and whosoever, livetl:i and believeth
in me, shall never die." "And I heard a voice from Heavert saying unto
me, 'Write, blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth:
Yea saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their
works do follow them'_."

Benicia Lodge No. 5·:
Harry Bodine Carr, died April, 1943. ·

This is an expression of that age old conflict waged between life
and death. Life always wins in this struggle, for through death we attain
life. Listen to the victorious proclamation from God's holy Word. "That
which Thou sowest is not quickened, except it die." This is the victory
of life over death. This is the answer to the aching hearts of our loved
ones.
As we drop again the curtain separating time and eternity, we bid a
loving farewell to our brethren whom death has stricken in the last year.
Death! No, but rather eternal life has called them into that "house not
made with hands eternal in the heavens."
IN MY FATHER'S HOUSE
By Dr. Rohert Freeman
"In my Father's House are many rooms."

John 14:2.

No, not cold beneath the grasses,
Not close-walled within th e tomb;
Ratner, in my Father's mansion,
Living in another room.
Living, like the one who loves me,
Like my child with cheeks abloom,
Out of sight, at desk or school book,
Busy in another room.
Nearer than my son whom fortune
Beckons where the strange lands loom;
Just behind the hanging curtain,
Serving in another room.
Shall I doubt my Father's mercy?
Shall I think of death as doom?
Or the stepping o'er the threshold
To a bigger, brighter room?
Shall I blame my Father's wisdom?
Shall I sit enswathed in gloom
When I know my loves are happy,
Waiting in the other room?

P . CRIM,
Ross ROPER,
WILLIAM P . McN.>,IR,
FRED A. SCHAEFER,
A.
RUSSELL,
Nei:rology Committee .
ARTHUR

w.

•

Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 :
William Lyman Hood, died June 1, 1943.
San Jose Lodge No. 10:
George Wadey, died December 8, 1942.
Christopher Harry Smith, died May 17, 1943.
YOWlt Lodge No. 12:
Percival Simpson King, died October 2, 1942.
(Past Grand Steward and Bible Bearer )
Nevada Lodge No. 13:
Atherton S. Lord, died J anuary 7, 1943.
Eugene B. Meservey, died October 22, 1942.
Eureka Lodge No. 16:
Preston Washington Smith, died October 3, 1942.
Lincoln Buchanan, died October 29, 1942.
Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18 :
Alvin Granstrom, died July 21, 1943.
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19:
Herman Conrad Bargmann, died .January 10, 1943.
Gilbert Garri e Davis, died April 17, 1943.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21:
Frank Edward Thompson, died March 24, 1943.
Occidental Lodge No. 22:
George Warren Drew, died November 3, 1942.
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30:
J oseph Fogerty, died December 24, 1942.
Paul Robert Bjick, died January 25, 1943.
San Diego Lodge No. 35:
Judge William J. Mossholder, died April 10, 1943.
Sacramento Lodge No. 40:
Charles Maxwell Colton, died November 18, 1942.
(P. M. Manila Lodge No. 1, P. I.)
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
Carl Parniiens Smith, died July 12, 1943.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61:
John Zacharias Gernant , died September 24, 1942.
Robert P lummer Gillman, died December 18, 1942.
Edgar Fxederick Gee, died December 27, 1942.
·(Past Grand Chaplain)
Amador Lodge No. 65:
Jay Fremont Wilson, died January 1, 1943.
Arthur Clifford Barrett, died · April 2, 1943.

665

666

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Morning Star Lodge No. 68:
George Washington Grupe, died December 17, 1942.

Excelsior Lodge No. 166:
Samuel Henry Perkins, died September 20, 1942.

Calaveras Lodge No. 78:
John J . Halley, died September 11, 1942.
Chas. Preston, died February 12, 1943.

Redwood City Lodge No. 168:
James Ellis Ensor, died February 27 1943.

Ione Lodge No. 80:
Enos Williams, died March 8, 1943.
Naval Lodge .No. 87:
Lawrence Christian Hagen Kaarsberg, died January 25, 1943.
St. Helena Lodge No. 93:
Leslie Arlmon Stern, died May 5, 1943.
Yosemite Lodge No. 99:
William Edward Landram, died May 1, 1943.
Clay Lodge No. 101:
George Rudolph Faller, died March 18, 1943.
Oroville Lodge No. 103:
Cyril R. MacDonald, died March 3, 1943.
Arcata Lodge No. 106: .
Horace Nix, died December 28, 1942.
Eden Lodge No. 113:
Wilton Woods Shuhaw, died December 3, 1942.
Charles Willard Wright, died May 13, 1943.
Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
Samuel Edgar Goldsmith, died April 8, 1943.
George Morris Lipman, died May 18, 1943.
Lafayette Lodge No. 126:
Harry Boyd Fuller, died December 19, 1942.
Harold Morrison, died May 17, 1943.
Percy G. Orpin, died July 26, 1943.
Visalia Lodge No. 128:
Franklin Frederick Barton, died June 21, 1943.
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131:
Wm. Woods Henderson, died Septembe.r 257 1942.

Mission Lodge No. 169:
Charles Austin Day, died January 16, 1943.
l!'rank Herman Mattern, died November 14, 1942.
Elk Grove Lodge No. 173:
.James Seward Rushy, died January 31, 1943.
Claud Duval Tribble, died February 10, 1943.
Edward George Stephenson, died June 2, 1943.
Antioch Lodge No. 175:
James Newton Christian, died October 11, 1942.
Phoenix Lodge No. 178:
Maurice Burton Clark, died May 28, 1943.
Petaluma Lodge No. 180:
Edward Mervyn M. Evans, died November 17, 1942.
Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Howard Nelson Mosher, died March 16, 1943.
Northern Light Lodge No. 190:
J<'red. Saenger, died March 8, · 1943.
Ferndale Lodge No. 193:
Albert Maurice Dinsmore, died February 20, 1943.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
George Harper Hand, died April 10, 1943.
San Benito Lodge No. 211 :
Edwin Wells Tiffany, died ·December 23, 1942.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212:
August Frederick Mayer, died November 19, 1942.
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214:
John James MacGregor, died Sepember 12, 1942.
Monterey Lodge No. 217:
Joseph Hiram Graves, died Sepember 18, 1942.

Paci.de Lodge No. 136:
Francis J. Wimperly, died January 27, 1943.

Brooklyn Lodge No. 225:
William Robert Evans, died June 26, 1943.

Franklin Lodge No. 143:
Miles Robert Dean, died March 23, 1943.

San Mateo Lodge No. 226:
Lewis Anson Smith, died August 27, 1942.

Oriental Lodge No. 144:
William Edward Conner, died December 2, 1942.

Athens Lodge No. 2Z8:
Russell William Oglum, died April 22, 1943.

Abell Lodge No. 146:
James Carlyle Hurley, died February 22, 1943.
Jacob William Kingren, died May 27, 1943.

North Butte Lodge No. 230:
Richard Campbell, died April 15, 1943.

Woodland Lodge No. 156:
William Roy Laugenour, died April 9, 1943.

Janesville Lodge No. 232:
Ira E. Bailey, died February 2, 1943.
John Burton Christie, die~ .:Tuly 19, 1943.

667

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

668

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Calistoga Lodge No. 233:
Joseph F. Carney, died October 29, 1942.
Colusa Lodge No. 240:
Joseph Baum, died Sepember 7, 1942.
Fresno Lodge No. 247:
Harry Sheville Foster, died ,Tune 8, 1943.
Reading Lodge No. 254:
Stanley Marion Strayer, died December 14, 1942.
Welcome Lodge No. 255:
John Henry Brothers, died December 24, 1942.
John Henry Seigfried, died Augus·t 24, 1942.
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260:
William Parker Filmer, died November 22, 1942.
(Past Grand Master and Grand Treasurer)
Hesperian Lodge No. 264:
Albert Re~noylds Jones, died November 30, 1942.
Orland Lodge No. 265:
John Harrison Maxon, died February 25, 1943.
Thomas Hartwell Brown, died May 17, 1943.
Galt Lodge No. 267:
Charles Samuel Smith, died December 20, 1942.
Olive Branch Lodge No. 269:
Henry Whaley, died July 6, 1943.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272:
Albert Mercer, died June 1, 1943.
William· Raymond Meeker, died June 27, 1943.
Anchor Lodge No. 273:
William Silas Jones, died February 28, 1943.
John B. Norton, died May 13, 1943.
Southern California Lodge No. 278:
Caleb Amos Yarnell, died March 2o, 1943.
Cyrus William G:rant, died November 21, 1942.
South West Lodge No. 283:
Carl S. Owen, died October 18, 1942.
Santa Paula Lodge No. 291:
Albert Lewis Burson, died January 27, 1943.
Eugene Herbert Decker, died April 17, 1943.
Alton Lucius Drown, died September 7, 1942.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292:
Richard Felix Robertson, died January 23, 1943.
Robert Pearis Gobe·r , died March 23, 1943.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293:
Asher Frank Lankford, died April _6, 1943.
Traver Lodge No. 294:
Charles Henry Dtll, died June 21, 1943.

Mt . .Jackson Lodge No. 295:
Malcolm McDonald, died January 29, 1943.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296:
Winford Ezra Metz, died December 13, 1942.
William G. Barth, died December 27, 1942.
Liberty Lodge No. 299:
Charles Orville Burrell, died July 5, 1943.
(Inspector Mas. Dist. 54)
Ashlar Lodge No. 306:
Eugene William Cosgrove, died July 25, 1943.
Sisson Lodge No. 310:
Joseph L. Paynter, died August 8, 1942.
Los Banos Lodge No. 312:
John Edwin McClelland, died June 26, 1943.
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313:
Walter Edwin Davis, died June 27, 1943.
Emanuel Lodge No. 318:
Theodore Reynolds Cooper, died March 28, 1943.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319:
Sylvester Carder, died Jan. 22, 1943.
Alfred Whitehead, died April 11, 1943.
South Gate Lodge No. 320:
Frederic Charles Bell, died September 12, 1942.
Needles Lodge No. 326:
Leroy V. Root, died November 10, 1942.
Long Beach Lodge No. 327:
John Coombs Farnham, died July 7, 1943.
Redondo Lodge No. 328:
Steve John Franklin, died July 12, 1943.
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329·:
Leon Curtet, died November 5, 1942.
Covina Lodge No. 334:
Malcolm John McCarthy, died January 29, 1943.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339:
Amos Everett Griffin, died March 41 1943.
McKinley Lodge No. 347:
Harry Leander Ells, died March 7, 1943.
San Bernardino' Lodge No. 348:
Henry: A. Wierwille, died August 8, 1942.
Charles M. Grow, died July 28, 1943.
Charles Edward Poulter, died October 21, 1942.
Mill Valley Lodge No. 356:
William John Aitchison, died September 13, 1942.
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367:
John Masterton Coutts, jl.ied April 23, 1943.

669

670

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amity Lodge No. 370:
James Earl Cowden, died July 4, 1943.
Russell Irvin Wisler, died January 15, 1943.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379:
Thomas Felty Wileman, died September 18, 1942.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382:
Harry Clifton Knox, died August 9, 1942.
Warren Russell Tait, died April 1, 1943.
Dinuba Lodge No. 385:
.
Joseph Davis Pillsbury, died August 2, 1942.
Coalinga Lodge No. 387:
Joseph Bertram Wright, died May 21, 194'.I·
West Lake Lodge No. 392:
Lisle Loonard Smith, died October 20, 1942.
Burlingame Lodge No. 400:
Walter Lagrange Scott, died December 11, 1942.
William Watson, Jr., died August 6, 1942.
Brawley Lodge No. 402:
John Andrew Irelan, Jr., died February 8, 1943.
William Liston Crowell, died August 13, 1942.
Gifford T. Randolph, died October 9, 1942.
Glendora Lodge No. 404:
James Alma Adair, died June 12, 1943.
Burbank Lodge No. 400:
Edward A. Fischer, died May 2, 1943.
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408:
Martin Herbert Bridle, died August 24, 1942.

WiL~hire

Lodge No. 445:
Bertin Alfred Weyl, died February 14, 1943.

Torrance Lodge No. 447:
Willis Moore Brooks, died May 15, 1943.
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450:
Walter Crewford. Hall, died December 1, 1942.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452:
Elliott Lee Ellingwood, died September 5, 1942.
Bethlehem Lodge No. 453:
James Forrest Strachan, died October 2, 1942.
Lloyd Hnmmell, dted Novemher 6, 1942.
Crocker Lodge No. 454:
Royden Keith Friedrichs, died Sepetmber 6, 1942.
Argonaut Lodge No. 461:
Purcell Rowe, died July 1, 1943. ·
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462:
Louis D. Smith, died December 30, 1942.
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464:
Roy Maxwell Leeds, died November 25, 1942.
America Lodge No. 475:
George Addison Stewart, died January 12, 1943.
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478:
John Charles Allen, died March 30, 1943.
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479:
Louis Melvin Kimberlin, died August 24, 1942.
Morris Jensen, died January 14, 1943.

Honolulu Lodge No. 409:
George Fullerton Renton, died August 10, 1942.

Albert Pike Lodge No. 484:
Grover Cleveland Zimmerman, died July 15, 1943.

Arlington Lodge No. 414:
Richard Harrison Tuttle, died August 11, 1,942.

Caledonia Lodge No. 486:
George Lynn Scott, died November 18, 1942.

01ovis Lodge No. 417:
Charles Edwin Matthews, died November 21, 1942.

Corcoran Lodge No. 490:
Lewis Steele Randolph, died January 6, 1943.

Exeter Lodge No. 424:
William Arthur Waterman, died June ·21, 1943.
Holtville Lodge No. 4,25;
Ernest Ventura Edwards, died N~vember 19, 1942.
William Jackson Gregg, died February 1, 1943.
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427:
Charles Milan Craw, died April 29, 1943.

Acorn Lodge No. 494:
James Edward Gate, died December 9, 1942.
Fremont Lodge No. 497:
Robert Benjamin Billington, died December 1, 1942.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506:
Claud Harvey Constable, died May 12, 1943.

Acacia Lodge No. 438:
Otto B. Hofer, died February 22, 1943.

Covenant Lodge No. 527:
Francis Edward Davis, died September 22, 1942.
Bernard Bettendorf, died January 13, 1943.
Harry Norman Pennebaker, died December 19, 1942.

Schofield Lodge No. 443:
Charles Drummond Rea, died April 30, 1943.

Ascot Lodge No. 538:
Joel Pomerene Mcintire, died December 29, 1942.

671

672

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541:
Joseph Lawrence Banville, died July 2, 1943.
Lankershim Lodge No. 542:
John Herman Fritz, died July 10, 1943.
Glendale Lodge No. 544:
Wallace Irving Hodge, died June 30, 1943.
Alexander Haskell Lapham, died February 13, 1943.
Leroy Riggs McMillan, died November 301 1942.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546:
Frank Ambrose Palmer, died May 15, 1943.
Arthur E. Manzer, died July 22, 1943.
Justice Lodge No. 549:
Leland Peoples, died May 11, 1943.
Semper Virens Lodge No. 552:
Henry Armstrong Stern, died December 19, 1941.
South Park Lodge No. 563:
Newton David High, died November 11, 1942.
Foothill Lodge No. 564:
Frederick Henry Camber, died November 28, 1942.
Security Lodge No. 581:
Walter · James Moore, died August 15, 1942.
Rialto Lodge No. 582:
William Thomas Dunn, died October 21, rn42.
Wasco Lodge No. 583:
William Daniel McNairn, died July 26, 1943.
Kauai Lodge No. 589:
Theador Ingvald Blackstad, died January 4, 1943.
Escalon Lodge No. 591:
Otto Adolph Cushe, died December 15, 1942.
Three Pillars Lodge No. 613:
Elmer Orlando Hoffmeister, died March 26, 1943.
Big Bear Lodge No. 617:
William James Nickerl, died August 16, 1942.
The Gardens Lodge No. 621:
Robert Tait, died October 2, 1942.
Fairview Lodge No. 629 :
Wm. Claude Hudnall, died May 4, 1943.
Ingleside Lodge No. 630: .
Rev. George Henry Burwell Wright, died December 12, 1942.
(Past Grand Chaplain)
Riverside Lodge No. 635:
Robert Metcalf Dodsworth, died November 2, 1942.
Metropolitan Lodge No. 646:
William Martin Leffert, died April 18, 1943.

673

Menlo Park Lodge No. 651:
Charles Martin, died February 23, 1943.
Orescenta Valley Lodge No. 652:
Wallace Andrew Fitzgerald, died September 25, 1942.
'fhomas "Hughes Elson, died November 25, 1942.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662:
Roy H. McCray, died July 17, 1943.
Reseda Lodge No. 666:
Thomas Benton Turner, died July 20, 1943.
San Clemente Lodge No. 671:
George E. Gill, died January 21, 1943.

EULOGY
By FRANCIS v. KEESLING,
Past Grand Master a11d Grand Treas1irer
Song-Within This Sacred Dwelling (Mozart) ............................................
............._..................................... Oliver Jones, Basso (East Bay Lodge No. 489)

WILLIAM PARKER FILMER
Past Grand Master and Grand Treasurer
To the Most Worshipf11l Grand Lodge, F. &. A. M. of California:

William Parker Filmer, Past Grand Master and Grand Treasurer of
this Grand Lodge, passed beyond the veil on the 22nd day of November,
1942, after a lingering illness. He endured the sufferings which attended
his fatal illness with fortitude ·that manifested his courage. The person
of our brother and friend has been removed from us. The Scottish Rite
and the York Rite suffer very much in the passing of this real man.
As I review my personal association, I may say that one of ~he best
friends I ever had has been removed. From the beginnings of a frie ndship in the misty past of more than forty years, there is only fondest
recollection of continuous and ever-increasing frie ndly relations between
my friend and me. Not a cross word had broken a serene understanding.
we mourn and yet we should be comforted in the fact that our
friend and brother has lived a full and a very useful life. It may not be
said of him" ! look behind me, and I see no mark
Beside my road of time, no fruit, no flowers,
No indicated lasting good thing done
To build Thee praise, or help my fellow men
Along the way I will not tread again."
Mourning is essentially self-sympathy. We sorrow for ourselves in
that we are deprived of the benign presence of the one we love.
Fortunately I recall with considerable sati.sfaction that the bouquet
which my feeble effort may gather and offer in appreciation of our friend
and brother today is just another of the many tributes I have paid him
on every opportunity during the time he lived.
Brother Filmer was born March 22nd, 1866, in New York City. He
came to San Francisco as a young child where he attended grammar

674

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

school from 1872 to 1875, when he moved to New Haven, Connecticµt,
where he continued his grammar school education. Upon returning to
San Francisco, he resumed attendance at Valencia Grammar Schoo~,
. graduating in 1880. Following that he became associated with his father
in the Filmer, Stiller Electrotype Company. In 1884, he went to New
York City, complet'ing his training as an electrotyper with the then
well-known electrotype firm of Ringler & Co. He returned to San Francisco in 1885 and continued his association with his father in the electrotype business.

but that's the way it was-he was 'Billy' Filmer to us. He was president .
of the Golden Gate Bridge Board and I was a director and I could riot
begin to count the number of times he ruled against me in controversies
which at times prevailed, but, even as he ruled me wrong, I knew
'Billy' F~lmer would not do so unless he felt he was right-and to myself I confessed he was."

In 1886, he married Matilda Sproul and from this marriage there
was an only child, Marian, now Mrs. Friedman. From 1886 to 1890, he·
lived on a ranch in Lake County primarily for his health. Incidentally,
he planted the first olive grove in that county. He then returned to
San Francisco and continued in business with his father, which business
eventuated in Filmer Bros. Electrotype Co., of which he was president
from 1900 until his death. The company is well-known in the field of
law book and court record printing and binding.
An early manifestation of his civic interest was enlistment in Company "B," First Regiment, National Guard of California in 1888. This
company was originally known as the "City Guard," organized in 1854,
the first company of National Guard Infantry to exist in this state.
His interest in Masonry no doubt had its inception in the Masonic
activities of his father, William Filmer, who became a 33rd Degree
Mason of the Northern Jurisdiction on the 28th day of August in 1861.
He was a Past Master of King Solomon's Lodge No. 260 and, in April,
1898, conferred the First Degree on his two sons, William and George.
William Parker Filmer was the eldest of three brothers, the two
others being Colonel George Filmer, well known in Masonic, Shri~e,
Kiwanis and civic activities, and John, who devoted his entire time and
attention to operation of the electrotyping department of the business.
As we consider our brother's life, we are aware of a home of
abundance, of love and appreciation, and then a g·reat void when he was
deprived of his beloved life companion. We are aware of affection for
his brothers, demonstrated by marked loyalty; an honorable and a successful business career; a willingness to serve and a frequent response
to call for public service. His greatest attainment in public service no
doubt was the successful administration of the affairs of the Golden
Gate Bridge and Highway District in its formulative period, through the
construction of the Bridge, and into the early period of operation, until
he voluntarily laid aside further responsibility. That he was an officer
of that Bridge and Highway District lent great confidence in the integrity
of construction and operation, which might have suffered from political
manipulation.
ln all these relationships, there is a preeminent manifestation of
human understanding in the friendships which existed. He was ever
modest, kindly, just and thoroughly courageous. Of him one of his
fellow directors on the Golden Gate Bridge commented :
"To my way of rating men I had never met a finer personality than
William Parker Filmer. He was intensely human. We called him
'Billy,' because he was so lovable a character and we knew when we
did so, the designation, although it was an endearing one, was grotesque
because William Parker Filmer was one who reflected all the graces,
the polish, tact and respect-commanding attributes deference should be
paid and it always appeared out of place to refer to Mr. Filmer as 'Bi11'y,'

675

This wi:iter referred to one of Billy Filmer's outstanding characteristics, namely, his love of flowers. He continued:
"I, a Roman Catholic, sta·n ding by his ~Jeeping place, am going to
pray to 'Billy' Filmer's God-his God and my God-he be dealt with
kindly for here on earth 'Billy' Filmer saw no difference between a Mason
and a Catholic-his broad tolerance would not permit him to--and, in
Heaven, he will find there is none."
·
The man who wrote this is a fighting, yet gentle, Irish editor, A. R.
O'Brien.
Another editor, Edward F. O'Day, also a Catholic, said of him:
"Masonry was 'Billy' Filmer's religion, and civic helpful~ess was his
self-imposed, life-long obligation." ·
Notwithstanding other accomplishments, William Filmer's greatest
achievement lies in his Masonic service. He was a member of all Masonic bodies. It is unnecessary to dwell on detail-it will suffice to relate
that 4e progressively served as Master of King Solomon's Lodge, (1903),
and treasurer thereof for many years, High Priest of King Solomon's
Chapter, Royal Arch Masons, (1906), and Grand High Priest of the
Royal Arch Masons of California, (1918), Grand Master of Masons in
the Jurisdiction of California, (1912), and Grand Treasurer of the Grand
Lodge since 1913, Master of the Lodge of Perfection and Commanderin-Chief of the Consistory in the Scottish Rite, being successively elevat.ed
to become Knight Commander of the Court of Honor, 33rd . Degree
Honorary, ultimately 33rd Degree active member of the Supreme Council
of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite for the Southern Jurisdiction
of the United States; serving as Lieutenant Grand Commander and
Sovereign Grand Inspector General in California at the time of his
death. These honors are sufficient unto themselves but in his life they
are indicative of only a part of the very great service he rendered as
a member of the fraternity. Perhaps more than any other individual m
recent years, he is responsible for the great dignity and attainment of
the Grand Lodge of California, which we of this Jurisdiction believe to
be the greatest Grand Lodge in America.
What does this mean? It means that he devoted his life to a great
agency for the develop~ent of character, such as is being done in
similar institutions. All who think fundamentally of the causes of war
realize that peace in the world will be impossible until ultim<1tely there
shall be in the nations of the world individual character and dignity
sufficient to outlaw human conflicts.
"Peace has its victories
No less renowned than war-"
But our brother was no pacifist-he was e~er a realist.
Of him it may be said his monument is builded " in the hearts and
memories" of his brethren and friends and his name will be remembered
because "he has lived" and "The fruits of his labor live after him."

Song-Departing (Roos-Anderson) ................................................._...Oliver Jones

676

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FROM A GARDEN WALL

tories and ' the dirges of transitory defeats, may be read these ancient
character, "It is later than :1101t think."

G. Er.LSWORTH MEYER
Swiftly, silently the annual tides bear brethren "from out our bourne
of time and place," tides "too full for sound or foam." As they sail beyond the far horizon, we who remain endeavor by these services and our
humble words to bid a fond adieu. Scarce one of us but has lost a
particular frien·d, whom we had grappled to our hearts with enduring
bonds. His name upon the roll makes these services very personal as
we jointly mourn the loss of all, but it is not fitting and proper, nor our
desire, to vex Providence with lamentations or ostentatious grief; rather,
·we pay tribute to virtue and kindly deed, console ourselves with the firm
conviction of the immortality of the soul and the realization that human
influences live beyond the grave.
We honor the memory of our departed brethren not to gratify them,
for they are lifted above earthly hqnors, but as a fit reward for their
endeavor to. exemplify in their daily lives those exalted concepts which
Freemasonry inculcates in the hearts and minds of men. Our brethren
were human and therefore prone to err, but any particular in which they
may have exhibited human frailty, we have forgotten. The good, the
true, the just in their lives far outweighed the ill and the memory of
these we preserve as evidence of our appreciation and our desire to emulate, so that when we too shall have turned again home, it may be said
that our lives were fruitful of all good works.
The going of our brethren is enshrouded by the great mystery of
life and death, the enigma of every age, but death is the portion of every
man who ever drew the J?reath of life. We cannot question it, for death
is as much a part of the Divine Plan as life, but we need never face it
stricken dumb ; rather, we may inquire:
Shall we question our Father's wisdom?
Shall we sit enswathed in gloom,
When we know our friends are happyLiving in some other room?
(Robt. ·Freeman)
Did we not believe in the existence of that other room, somewhere
beyond our sight, truly would we mourn our brethren ''.beneath the
grasses, close-walled within the tomb." But when we lift our eyes upward, not to a God of Wrath, but to an omnipotent, wise, loving Father,
then are we persuaded that though man measureth time by things which
fall away and die, these are but tiny flutterings in the hand of the
Eternal.
·
The abode for which our brethren have departed is not to be beheld
by mortal eyes, nor are its sounds caught by mortal ear. It must be
seen through the eyes of faith with which the soul is endowed, its echoes
must be heard in the throb of human breasts and in the words of the
great teachers of every faith, one of whom said, "In my Father's mansion,
there are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you."
As we perform these final offices of brotherly affec.t ion, as we voice
our earnest desire to personify exemplary conduct and exalted virtue,
there comes to mind an inscription upon an ancient bronze plaque set
in a certain Chinese garden wall. All record of the hand which placed
it is lost, the name of the sage who spoke its lines is not preserved even
by family tradition, but there in the fragrance of a spacious garden, evidencing worldly wealth, there cloistered from the accolades of petty vie-

677

Yes, it is later than we sometimes think and the departure of brother
after br·o ther so reminds us.
It is later than you think.
Yes, it is too late in the life of the youngest within this room to
live basely, act unworthily or decide unjustly. It is too late to continue
withholding any reserved hand of friendship. It is too late to further
procrastinate doing that which needs .to be done. It is too late to leave
to tomorrow · the undoing of any wrong committed against friend or
brother.
.
·
These reflect.ions, italicized i~ the bit of Chinese philosophy are not
too somber, they are not too funereal for the man who can bear success
with humility, the affection of his friends without pride and his final
earthly day with befitting courage.
Their negatives whisper that time is fleeting, but their positives
shout that, "Today is the day. Today is the day to live radiantly. Today
is the day to firmly grasp the hand of friend and brother. T oday is the
day to slide a shoulder beneath his burden, to go on foot and out of the
way. Tomorrow never comes.
Verily, it was later in the lives of our brethren than we thought.
They have crossed the sea to take up their abode in those other rooms,
though they will not pass again this way, though we are seemingly
separated by a barrier yet impassable, we bid them farewell with the
consolation and promise of a borrowed aphorism-"Those whom virtue
hath joined, death cannot separate." '
A Mem?rial Song-Taps (Custance) .............................. Oliver Jones and Organ
Benedictio;......._..........................:..........................................................Grand Chaplain

At 1 :20 p. tn. Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 a. m.
Thursday morning.

678

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

679

REPORT OF GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE

1Jn ~ranb lLobgc
MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 14, 1943.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
Brother Col. Edward L. Branham, United States Army Chaplain Corps, delivered the invocation, after which the Grand
Secretary read the Minutes of the meeting _of Wednesday,
October 13, 1943, and they were approve<l; by the Grand Lodge.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing reports consideration and action on applications as follows :
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579 for the purchase of a building.
for Lodge purposes.-Approved.
· Altadena Lodge No. 678 for refinancing the purchase of the Temple
occupied by the Lodge, to borrow money therefor and to acquire at par
value 5 shares Altadena Masonic Temple Association, Ltd., held in
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund.-Approved.
These applications involved considerable detail and in each instance
there was satisfactory cooperation on the part of the representatives of
the Lodge and the Grand Lodge Committee.
Your Grand Treasurer, as Chairman of the Committee, also cooperated with the Grand Master with respect to financial complications
of Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 F. & A. M. In this instance no action was
required of the Committee because it related to readjustment of obligations under an agreemeht of long standing.
The Grand Treasurer was also consulted by Brother Edward H.
Siems, Inspector, District No. 34, with respect to the voluntary activities
of a committee of the Masters and Wardens Association of the East
Bay area with respect to financial difficulties of Aahmes Shrine Temple
Association, now known as The Madison Co. The problems are not
within the jurisdiction of this committee of Grand Lodge but the good
name and reputation of the Masonic institution is involved and the committee of th e Master s and Wardens Association is to be commended in
its activities, which have resulted in appropriate proceeding to obtain
approval of debtor's proposed plan of arrangement. It is to be hoped
that an equitable plan may be evolved.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING, Chairman,

w ALTER L. BERGER,

ARTHUR S. CRITES,
HOLMES,
HARRY F. WHlTE, Committee.

w. E.

Adopted.

C~airman Frank B. Belcher presented the Omnibus report of
the Grievance Committee covering the following cases:
No. 1019.
No. 1020.
No. 1021.
No. 1022.
No. 1023.
No. 1026.
To the ·Most Worshipf1,1 Gra.nd Lodge of California:
To your Committee on Appeals and Grievances there have been referred the eight trial records and the five petitions for restoration which
have arisen during the current Masonic year. One of the petitions for
restoration has been withdrawn by the petitioner and therefore requires
no further consideration. The remaining four will be separately reported
for your consideration.
•
We look with favor on the practice now followed by most Lodges
of appointing investigating committees when notice of a petition for
restoration is received; particularly is this true in those cases where the
committee makes a real investigation and files a written report of its
findings. The action taken by the interested Lodges may be most helpful
to your committee and fo Grand Lodge. But this is only true when we
are advised as to the facts before the Lodge at the time it votes on the
m,atter. Of course, action by the Lodge is not required but we feel it is
quite desirable. If the facts relative to the rehabilitation of the petitioner
are not sent on to Grand Lodge then we are left in the dark as to 'whether
the Lodge action was an advised action or not.
Letters relative to the rehabilitation of a petitioner are also helpful
but particularly so when they set out facts in addition to the opinion of
the writer. In these matters, your committee is interested in knowing
where petitioner has resided, his occupation, position held, family reiations, his various activities, and any other facts which may throw light
on whetlier reh'abilitation has in fact occurred. In cases of embezzlement
or theft of funds, we like to know if restitution has been made and, if
not, why. Letters which fail to disclose the extent of the acquaintance of
the wdter and which express only his opinion, as to whether the petitioner
should or should not be restored are not very helpful. Let us have the
facts-good or bad.
The trial records before your committee this year show, for the most
part, the various cases to have been intelligently and fairly handled. We
are not unmindful of the difficulty of a non-lawyer Master in ruling on the
admissibility of evidence. They do surprisingly well and it is only in the
exceptional instance where an error is made which affects the substantial
rights of the accused. Masonic trials should be kept on a basis of giving
the accused a fair, impartial and thorough hearing. The fairness and impartiality of such hearings rest primarily with 'the Master and the Trial
Commission. The thoroughness depends largely in the diligence of the
accuser. Masonic charges should not be preferred unless they are to
be diligently handled and it is the duty of the accuser to see that available evidence is gathered and presented.
In one case covered by this
report, no evidence at all was presented to the Trial Commission and,
of course, an acquittal r esulted. Your committee was inclined to recommend reversal and send the matter back for trial. However, correspo.n-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

dence developed the fact that no witnesses were available and no evidence
could be produced on a rehearing. In such a situation, charges should not
be preferred in the first instance. But where there is a failure to produce
evidence that would appear to be available, a showing should be made
in the record as to the reason for such failure.
Your committee has carefully reviewed the records in the following
cases:
Case No. 1019-A member of San Bernardino Lodge No. 348. Expelled September 3, 1942.
Case No. 1020--A member of Oakland Lodge No. 188. Acquitted
October 7, 1942.
Case No. 1021-A member of Occidental Lodge No. 22. Expelled
November 2, 1942.
· Case No. 1022-A member of Union Lodge No. 58. · Expelled January
6, 1943.
Case No. 1023-A member of Russian River Lodge No. 181. Acquitted
November 3, 1942.
Case No. .1026-A member of Palestine Lodge No. 351. Expelled
August 2, 1943.
We find in these records no errors affecting the substantial rights of
the accused, that substantial justice has been accomplished. We recommend affirmance ·in all of these cases, and, therefore, offer the following
resolution.
.
Be it Resolved, That the action of the Trial Commission and Lodges
in each of the above cases, together with the penalties imposed, be and
they hereby are ratified, affirmed and approved.
·

The Grand Lodge at the present time limits and prescribes the
character of investments than can be made of the endowment funds of
the Masonic Homes and of Life Membership funds but does not make
apy limitation on the investment of the general funds except to the extent of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) which are required to
be held in sound banking institutions or invested in seasoned interest
bearing bonds as provided in Section 655 of the Edicts and Resolutions.
The matter of the investment of endowment funds which are of considerable magnitude has been given careful attention and the rule therefor would be properly applied to the investment of the general funds.
Your committee therefor recommends that Section 655 of the Edicts and
Resolutions be repealed and further recommends the adoption of the
following resolution:

680

681

655 Recognition as to the handling and investment of Grand Lodge
funds: Resolved that no appropriations of the funds of the Grand Lodge
shall be made, except in times of great loss or great calamity when the
moneys in the general fund do not exceed the sum of twent;-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00); and, be it further resolved, that the funds of
this Grand Lodge in the general fund shall at all times be held in sound
banking institutions or the same invested in Federal, State, County or
municipal bonds legal for investment of savings banks.
The Jurisprudence Committee has approved the foregoing resolution
in principle and as to form.

Adopted.

FRANK B . BELCHER,
ARTHUR W . BROUILLET,

c.

Lours
DRAPEAU,
OLIN L. BERRY,
JoE
SHELL,

L.

Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
Past Grand Master William Rhodes Hervey, Chairman, reported the recommendation of the Committee, approving the request of the Special Taxation Committee that a tax specialist be
employed in the matter of unemployment taxes, and the report of
the Committee was adopted.

INVESTMENT OF GRAND LODGE FUNDS
To the Most Worshipful Grand L odge of California:
. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which has
been referred the recommendation made by the Grand Treasurer that
the investment of the gen~al funds of Grand Lodge be limited _to
Federal, State, County, or municipal bonds legal for savings banks.

LODGE CONTRIBUTIONS TO ORGANIZATIONS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
proposed amendment to Section 159 of the Constitution and Ordinances
of Grand Lodge providing that a . Lodge may expend in its discretion
not to exceed twenty per cent (20%) of its total revenues for the purpose of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal intercourse and that
during the continuance of the present war a Lodge may contribute t)le
unexpended balance in its refreshment fund to the American Red Cross,
the National War Fund or any other purpose designed to promote the
National Defense and approved by the Grand Master. Our law wisely
provides that the funds of the Lodges, from whatever source derived,
are trust funds for the payment of the necessary expenses of the Lodge
and for the special calls of charity and prohibits the use of its funds
for any other thing whatsoever except the payment of its officers or
representatives attending the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge
and for the purpose of a testimonial for a retiring Master and for floral
pieces for an ill or deceased brother or his family and not to exceed
twenty per cent (20%) of its total revenues for purpose of refreshment and
the promotion of fraternal intercourse. Your committee is of the opinion
that the restrictions on the expenditures of Lodge funds should not be
reduced and therefor recommends that the proposed amendment be not
adopted.

Adopted.

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THIRTY-FIVE YEARS' MEMBERSHIP

tions. of the Cons~itution and General Regulations of the Grand Lodge
relating to the duties of. Secretary of a Lodge, and also upon his general
knowledge of those port10ns of the Constitution and General Regulations
of the Grand Lodge relating to the government of a Lodge. .
··we, further, recommend that this resolution be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

682

To the · Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
proposals made by R. W. Monroe, Secretary. of Citro! Lodge No. 656
to give recognition to members who have belonged to the fraternity for
thirty-five (35) years and is of the opinion that the proposal should not
be adopted for the reason that the fifty- (50) year button provided to be
presented by Grand Lodge is a highly regarded and much appreciated
testimonial and that the adoption of a system of presen'ting tokens for
· lesser years of membership or service would diminish the value and regard
for the fifty- (50) year button. And for the further reason that there
would be equal justification for presenting tokens for ten (10) years,
twenty-five (25) years, or for,ty (40) years as for the.period of thirty-five
years' membership. Your committee recommends that the proposal be
not adopted.

Adopted.

FOREIGN JURISDICT IONS' REQUESTS FOR
RECOGNITION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
matter of the recognition of the Grand Lodge of Nicaragua, Argentine,
and of several of the state Grand Lodges in the Republic of Mexico.
Because of a failure to receive sufficient information on which to base
a correct determination of . the question, which information your committee has diligently sought, it is recommen9ed that the subject of r~c­
ognition be postponed until the next Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge.

Adopted.

CERTIFICATION OF SECRETARIES
To the Most ·w orshipful Grand Master and Members of Grand Lodge.:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes herewith presents
its report on the resolution relating to the examination and certification
for proficiency . of the Se~retary-elect of the Constituent Lodges. The
said resolution was presented to the Grand Lodge by the following Past
Masters and members of Grand Lodge: Frank Harwell, Jr., Ralph K.
Pierson, Owen L. Craghead, and Herbert 'R. Hargrave.
Your Committee is of the opinion that the office of Secretary of the
Constituent Lodges· is an important administrative office; that a thorough
knowledge of the Constitution and General Regulations of the Grand
Lodge which relate to the duties of a Secretary and which relate to the
government of a Lodge is necessary for the efficient discharge of his
duties.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Be it Resolved, That the Grand Lecturer be directed by Grand Lodge
to require of Inspectors due certification of the proficiency of brethren
elected to the office of Secretary of the Constituent Lodges, such certification to be based upon the proficiency of the Secretary-elect it;i those por-

683

Adopted and referred to Comittee on Jurisprudence.

WAR FUNDS
To the Most WorshiPful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand ~aster referred in his message to three payments heretofore made by him from the. War Relief Fund, first in the sum of twentyfive hundred dollars to Fortitude Lodge, U. D., in Chungking, China, to
feed and care for the starving and unfortunate Masons in the South of
China.; and, then in the sums of twenty-five hundred dollars to the
American Red Cross, and five t)10usand dollars to the United Service
Organization on behalf of the Lodges and brethren:· of the jurisdiction of
California.
Your committee agrees with his statement that there is no question
about the urgent need of the Masons in China and agrees that it was
proper. to _make some contribution from Masonic funds for that purpose.
Also, m view of· the fact that about ten thousand California Masons are
serving in_ the armed forces of the United. States, the contributions ·to
the American Red Cross and the United Service Organizations were de~
sirable and appropriate.
However, your committee questions the propriety of making these
payments .from the War Relief Fund. In this connection there has been
referred . to Y<:>~r committee the resolution introduced by Brother Mark
A. Sawri,e reciting that the Masons of California have contributed to the
War Relief F1.1nd with the assurance that the purpose of this fund was
tc:i _assist Lod.ges financially unable to meet needs occasioned by war cond~t~o.ns; to aid wc:irthy ser~ice members and their families, and to help
vis1ttng brethren m our midst; further reciting . the contribution of the
sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) as detailed in the message of the
Grand Master, and then resolving "that the War Relief Fund be reimbursed in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for these expen_ditures and. that said sum. be drawn from the funds of Grand Lodge
which arc ava1lable for charity and outside agencies upon the order of
the Grand Master."
The re~itals in the resolution of Brother Sawrie, in the opinion of
your committee, correctly reflect the purposes of the War Relief Fund
as represented to the Masons of California who have contributed and
will hereafter contribute to the fund; and that the integrity of the fund
for the purposes so intended should be safeguarded.
·
Although the contributions made by the Grand Master were for a
proper Masonic purpose, it appears that they were made from a fund not
properly expendable therefor.
Your committee recommends that the . resolution of Brother Sawrie
be approved and that the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) be
transferred from the general funsJs of Grand Lodge to the War Relief
Funds as reimbursement.

Adopted.

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
i:'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

684

.PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS
A resolution is presented jointly by Brothers James W. ·c rosby,
Master of Hollywood Lodge No. 355, John H . Hargreaves, Master of
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662 and Alford L. Foster, Master of Glassell
Park Lodge No. 605, proposing to amend sections 208 and. 209 of the
Constitution and Ordinances of the Grand Lodge relating to physical
qualifications of applicants for the degrees· of Masonry.
·
By the amendment of section 208 it is propose<;! to substitute the
word "figuratively" for the vvord "substantially" in the present sentence
of the section which provides that the applicant must have "no maim or
defect in his body that may render him incapable. o.f learning the Art"
and must be "physically able to conform substantially to what the several
degrees respectively require of him." The proponents of the resolution
stated frankly to your committee that the purpose of the substitution of
the word "figuratively" for the word "substantially" was to so relax the
present rule as to qualify applicants with substituted m"embers in the
place of natural members of the body, such as artificial hands, arms and
legs.
·
·
It goes without saying that men who are so unfortunate as to be
without the natural members of the body may otherwise be well qualified
for membership in our order, but your committee questions the wisdqm
or desirability of departing from the time honored and universal requir:ement of physical · fitness to receive the degrees in due and ancient form.
The question of physical qualifications has been the subject of discussion
in years past and the problem of formulating a rule in such . ;i. way as to
preserve the traditional forms and ceremonies and still be fair to an
applicant with some physical defects has vexed the draftsmen of Masonic
law in most jurisdictions. A thorough consideration of the question by
this Grand Lodge in times past resulted in liberalizing the old rule of a
literal conformance to a substantial conformance with the requirements.
of the degrees. It is true that even with this liberalization the problem
of determining in a particular case whether an applicant can substantially
conform is often a difficult and delicate one. Under our present law that
question is left for decision to the sound discretion of the constituent
Lodge. There it should continue to reside, in the opinion of your
committee.
The proposal to amend section 209 is to strike out the provision
leaving the question of the physical fitness of the applicant to the sound
discretion of the Lodge and inserting a provision that if elected to receive the degrees, no degree shall be conferred on the candidate without
first obtaining the approval of the Inspector of the Masonic District _in
which the Lodge is located and the consent of the Grand Master.
Your committee is of the view that this proposed innovation would
result in an unnecessary and undesirable encroachment upon the powers
and functions of the constituent Lodge and would, in addition, impose a
further and undue burden on the Grand Master.
Your committee therefore recommtnds that the resolution be not
adopted.

Adopted.

685

$25.00 MASONIC HOMES CONTRIBUTION
To tht! Most Worshipf11l Grand Master and Me;n.;ers of Grand Lodge :
Your Committe_e on _Policy and General ~urposes, to which was referred
of. the Grand Master
the con t n'b u t'ion
to th the
M Recommendation
· H
··
· ''that·
·.
e
ason~c
omes be; paid to the' Grand Se,cretary by the Lod ·es
, after .the applicant has been raised to the degree of Master Mason g
that, m the event he. ~ies ?efore he has receiv:ed that degree, or has' b~~n
hreve~t~d f~om rece1vmg it by action of the Lodge that' it be returned ,,
as a t e. same: under consideration and are in accord with th.•e
recommendat10n.
The return of the . H _omes i:ee under the circumstances mentioned
by the Grand Master 1s m keeping with the rules of c
h · ·
and Mas · t
h' ·
ommon onesty
omc eac mgs...0 n 1Y Master. Masons, their wives, widows, children and orphans are ehg1ble for admission to these Homes If b d th
~~ actiodn of the Lodge, the applicant can never attain a status :ntit~fng
. 1m an . those dependent upon him to admission into the Homes then
m all fa1mes~, the money he has contributed to the Homes sho~ld b
~eturned to him or to his family, and your committee therefore concur:
IGn the purpose sought to be achieved by the recommendation of the
rand Master.
·
S However, we find upon consultation with the office of the Grand
ec\~ary th~t to comply strictly with the recommendation as made
wodu 'f necessitate many changes in the bookkeeping system of the office
an 1 sue? changes were made would result in much uncertainty as to
the financial arrangements existing between the Lodges and G
d
Lodge.
ran

J

We, therefo~e, recommend that the ~omes Fee be payable unto the
Secretary s office upon the conferrmg of the first degree as now
provided but that such fee be repayable to the initiate or the ' d
the repre s e n t a t'1ve o f t h e d eceased brother upon receipt •of a certificate
w1 ow bor
the Secretary of the Lodge that such initiate has died b f
· · Y
the third de
h · . .
e ore rece1vmg
d
gr~e, or sue 1mbate has been prevented from receiving such
egree by. action of the Lodge, provided, that in the latter case if such
stoppage 1s later removed, that provision be made for th
of the . Hom es F ee b Y th e m1bate
· · .
e repayment
be.fore the conferring of the
remaining
d egree or degrees.
Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master I move the adoptio of the
report.
·
'
n
Gra~d

Adopted and referred to the Committee on.Jurisprudence.

JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS
To the Mdst Worshipful Grand Master and Members of Grand Lodge:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which

re_fer~ed a proposal }o amend Section 218 of the Ordinances by ~~~

stttutmg the words twenty-five" for the word "ten" in th
t'
·
now read h
h d h
e sec ton as 1t
s, as a t e same under consideration and now begs leave
to report as follows:
. . 1:'he section referred to is the one which provides for enlarged ·ur1s?1c~1on of !--odges granting to each Lodge jurisdiction of all terrdory
w1thm
room · Thi' s' J. UISICIOn1s
r' d' t'
· . ad
d' '
1a radms of ten .miles of its Lodge
.
1bona to any other nght that may be granted by the Constitution ana

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI !\

Ordinances of Grand Lodge and in, many instances is a concurrent jurisdiction with other Lodges applying the same rule for enlarged jurisdiction.
.

Resolved, That the recommendation of the Grand Master that
· notices be sent to members relating to applicants for the degrees and for
affiliation be not adopted.

686

Your committee is of the opinion that the jurisdiction so granted
is the limit to which we should go.

Report not adopted and referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

There are many old Lodges in California In towns and villages which
for one reason or another have not grown as rapidly as other localitfes
and. still remain more or less of the size and character as existed when
the Lodge was chartered. Necessarily, in such small communities applicants are few and such Lodges, in the opinion of your committ'ee, ought
not be deprived of their exclusive jurisdiction over the members of their
own community.

HISTORY COMMITTEE
Past Grand Master Fischer presented a verbal report for the
committee, recommending that the History Committee be continued for another year and the recommendation was adopted.

Such Lodges are necessary and essential elements in the American
way of life and should be, and usually are, the center and rallying point
of community life in the smaller places. It is true that they may not
. have the. beautiful Lodge rooms and large memberships of the larger
communities, but like the Lodge over Simpson's store they often harbor
the truly Masonic spirit of brotherly love and devotion.
Your committee are of the opinion that to make any ·changes that
would tend to the extinction of these Lodges, many of which are among
the older Lodges of the jurisdiction, would be a distinct detriment to the
order and to the communities · where those Lodges exist.
We, therefore, recommend that the : proposal be not adopted.

Adopted.

687

AUTHORIZATION TO REPRINT ROSS DI GEST
.

Past Grand Master Fisch·e r also presented a verbal report that
the Committee, on the request of the Grand Secretary to reprint
the Ross Digest, the present supply being practically exhausted,
recommended that the Grand Secretary be authorized to print
the Fourth Edition of the Ross Digest brought up to date, not
to exceed 1,500 copies, and the recommendation was adopted.

At 12 :15 p. m. Grand Lodge called off until 2 :00 o'clock
Thursday afternoon.

NOTIFICATION TO MEMBERS TO ALL APPLICATIONS
To the Most Worshipful Grattd Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was referred the recommendation of the Grand Master that our Lodges be
required to notify their members of all applications for the degrees or
for affiliation within ten· days after their reception by the Lodge and
that the notice shall carry the full names, residence, and business addresses
and the age and occupation of the applicant, has had the same under
consideration.
Your committee, after a careful study of this subject and appreciating
the reasons for the recommendation, is unable to find itself in accord
with the same. The present law makes ample provision for handling
this matter . amon'g those {..odges having concurrent jurisdiction. The
adoption of . this recommendation could be the basis for re:vealing to the
profane Masonic information to which they are not entitled.
In a report to this Grand Lodge by the Jurisprudence Committee
·thereof in 1897 the restriction was added that the names of applicants
for the degrees must not be printed and dispersed in folders, and a
similar report by the same c.ommittee in 1913 applies a like restriction
.to the use of postal card~ for the same purpose. Both these reports were
. adopted by the Grand Lodge. The committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

688

689

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS INSPECTORAL DISTRICTS

Jn @ranb Jlobgt
AFTERNOON SESSION
Thursday, October 14, 1943.
Grand Lodge called on at 2 :00 o'clock p. m., the Grand
Master presiding.

To the Most .Worship/it! Grand Lodge of California:
Brethren: At the 1942 Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge,
the Grand Lecturer made certain recoinmendatiqils with regard to the
Inspectoral District of Hawaii and the prompt dispatch of the business
of this .Grand Lodge in that territory under the adverse conditions caused·
by war. Your committee· on Policy and General Purposes recommended
that the subject matter be not disposed of at that communication, but
that the same should be carried over as unfinished business to this annual
communication of Grand Lodge. The recomn:iendation of the committee
was adopted. Your committ.e e now· recommends that action in this matter
again b'e postponed to the agenda of the 1944 annual .communication.

Adopted. ·

RESOLUTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California :
The undersigned propose the repeal of Section 218 of the Constitution
and Ordinances, and request that the proper committee or committees act
thereon at this Communication of Grand Lodge. ·
MARK T. ANDREWS,

Past Master, Naval Lodge No. 87
CHARLES H. BYERRUM,

Master;· Benicia Lodge No. S
Ar.TON

F. JACKSON,

Master, Solano Lodge No. 2i!9

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
. GENERAL PURPOSES
CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge:
Brethren:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration the proposal of Southland Lodge No. 618 that "the annual
ce-Jebration of the adoption of our Constitution in the month of September
be extended to the public schools to the end that our youth may be taught
that all of the great blessings of liberty they now enjoy were secured
to them by the noble patriots who framed and handed down to us that
greatest of charters ever composed by man."
·
Your committee points out that we now have Masonic observance of
public schools week and also observance of the constitution annually in
the month of September. This would appear to correspond fully to .our
obligation in these particular matters. We believe that our public schools
are teaching our youth with respect to the constitution. This is a matter
wholely with the province of the school authorities.
Your committee therefor recommends that no action be taken with
reference to the proposal of Southland Lodge.

Adopted.

POST-WAR PROGRAM
To the Most Worshipful ~rnnd Lodge of California:
Brethren:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
following resolution submitted · by Pacific Lodge No. 136:
"Now, therefore, be it resolved, That the Grand Master set aside
sufficient time on the agenda of the Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Masons of California, commencing October 11, 1943, fot: discussion
of this subject, and if the representatives assembled determine that the
Grand Lodge and the constituent Lodges should contribute to post-war
planning programs, that the newly-elected Grand . Master be authorized
to appoint a committee properly instructed to study the subject and assist the constituent Lodges in the formulation of a program whereby the
members of the fraternity, as Ame.dean citizens as well as Masons, may
join in taking an active part in the accomplishment of sound post-war
policies, consistent with the democratic principles of the Government of
the United States."
With reference to the foregoing, your committee begs le.ay~ to report
as follows:
We believe that every citizen should inform himself to the best of
his ability with respect to post-war plans, both international and domestic,
aiid .give to those charged with resp~nsibi!ity for decisions the benefit of
his views. We do not, however, believe that it is practical fqr the Grand
Lodg.e to formulate or for constituent Lodges to adopt a post-war program.
Any post-war plan or program that can be devised is certain to propose
the adoption of economic and political P:Olicies and measures with respect
to which many and often bitter differences of opinion will arise.
The President of the United St11tes and his Cabinet, the Congress
of the United States and the several State Legislatures and hundreds of
economic, commercial, industrial, scientific, agricultural, educational, religious, social, and labor organizations are working on the subject of postwar plans. It is doubtful if there is any citizen of California who cannot
find a convenient forum in which to develop his views.
In the opinion of your committee, however, Masonry does not constitute such a forum and, we, therefore, recommend that the resolution
be not adopted.

Adopted.

690

PROCEEDINGS · OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TO REPEAL SECTION 218

will confront our fraternity in the near and post-war future. In accordance
therewith a special meeting was called for October 12th for the purpose
of conferring with representatives of the Boards of Relief and Employment Services, to consider the immediate and post-war problems. There
was a very laTge and deeply interested attendance. There was a general
exchange of information regarding the problems that have already confronted the different boards, and how they have been handled.

Past Grand Master Ogden of Policy Committee, reporting on proposal to repeal Section 218 of the Constitution and Ordinances, reported
as follows:
I ask leave to file written report of the proposal to repeal Section 218
at a later time. This is the section which we had in discussion this
morning, whereby the jurisdiction would be changed to twenty-five 11'.iles
instead of ten miles.
It is all very well to consider the merits of this one section, but unfortunately the repeal of this . section, my bi:ethren, would' necessitate a
number of other sections being repealed or changed. For instance, there
is a special provision for San Fernando Lodge. San Fernando Lodge,
operating under .Section 699 of the Ross Digest, · is granted jurisdiction
over all the ·territory which it had prior to its annexation to the City of
•Los Angeles.

My own personal opinion would be if we repeal section 218, Lankershim Lodge and others would be without any territory at all, and any
petition received from those Lodges would have to be upon waiver from
San Fernando Lodge. I, therefore, ask that this go over until next
communication of Grand Lodge as unfinished business, because our
committee is not prepared to give full consideration to the matter and the
time is too short for the Jurisprudence Committee to consider it. ·
I move the adoption of this report.

Adopted.

691

It developed that there are already evidences of new conditions appearing, such as very unusual inquiries that are being ~ade of the various
Boards of Relief; also applications by many released service men for
jobs, which were secured.
As to the future-a number of protective and beneficial measures were
suggested and discussed, to efficiently cope with probable· contingencies.
The. result was that a number of very definite lines of action were
devefoped, which it was believed would fit into a constructive and protective general program for the future.
Special Reimbursements
The Grand Lodge is requested to reimburse the San Francisco Board
of Relief in the following cases:
Case No. !-(Continued from last year).
Advancement made to wife of member of St. John No. 32, Selkirk,
Scotland, upon authority of The Grand Lodge of Scotland.
Last year $850.00 was advanced. A · very large part of which was
deposited by husband with said Grand Lodge.
·

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California :

Your Board of Control presents the following report of the activities
that came under its supervision during the past Masonic year. · I ti; work
has been benefited by the information and kind assistance given by the
Grand Master, the Grand Secretary ·a nd his assistants.
The board feels that all justified , relief has been freely extended as
usual in accordance with the policy of 01,1r Grand Lodge.
The Board of Control is convinced that the efficiency of the Boards
of Relief and Employment Services is now at its very highest level; that
they stand ready to meet the uncertain future with a large degree of
confidence in' their ability, to handle successfully the multitude of problems
with which they may be confronted.
The greatest degree of harmony and ~ooperatio.n continues between
the Boards of Relief and Employment Services and the Board of Control.
Commendation is due the Boards of Relief and Employment Services
for the excellence of their personnel.
Meetings
The board continues the practice of conferences through the mail.
It aiso held a meeting May 23rd at Berkeley.
The Board of Control is giving considerable consideration to the
uncertain conditions in connection with relief and employment, which

While authority was given by Grand Lodge of Scotland to contique
advancing $50.00 per month, only three advances were made this year,
inasmuch as the Employment Service of the· San Francisco Board of
Relief found a j~b for the lady, so ad".ancements ceased.
Amount to be paid San Francisco Board of Relief $150.00.
Case No. 2
Money advanced · to member of Batong-Btihay No. 27, Manila, P . I.
Roy C. Bryan, representative of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of the Philippine Islands appeared before this board and approved of this
assistance as an advancement for the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands, arid stated that he would recommend its immediate repayment
upon the re-convening of that Grand Lodge. This case is closed.
Amount to be paid San Francisco Board of Relief $86.06.
The Bo:ard of Control believes that the above two amounts should
be handled in the same manner as was recommended to the Grand Lodge
in the board's report under "Special Reimbursements" last year.
General Reimbursements
It is with deep gratification that the Board of Control reports that
for the first time in its history, there are no reimbursements to be made
by the Grand Lodge to any Board of Relief for monies that may have
been advanced by any of them during the entire fiscal year, which they
have been unable to recover, and which would be considered a loss to the
Grand Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN!ft

This is a clear indication of how thorough and careful is the present
procedure of ·our Boards of Relief in .h andlin'g monies, where after a
whole ·y'ear. has gone by, nothing is asked from the Grand Lodge.

1943 SUMMARY OF BOARDS OF RELIEF

692

· Employment Service
Notwithstanding the continually increasing . demand for .person.a l
services, 15,048 applications were received by ,9ur seven employment
bureaus from our brethren and their dependents during the fisc;al year
just closed. These applications plus 5,973 whieh were o'n hand at the
beginning of the year were converted into 13,016 ·jobs of which 10,519
pr 80 per cent were permanent. Last year we thought our employers'
requests for help totaling 30,303 would perhaps· stand for some time to
come, but this year the figure was 37,260, an increase of 22.9 .per cent.
It is quite obvious that we could. have filled many more jobs if we had
had qualified applicants available. The expense for the year was $31,286.70 of which Grand Lodge :appropriated $19,200.00 or 58.5 per cent.
The average cost per job secured was $2.52, and once more, a large sum
of money, over one-quarter of a million dollars, was saved to our brethren.
The war is not over, but we are already serving our brethren of the
armed forces. In one· month, one bureau found jobs for twenty returned
service men, not men over thirty-eight years of age but younger men
honorably discharged because of some disability.
This is Masopry in action.
Appropriations
After full consideration the board has recommended to the Finance
Committee that the .following appropriations be made for Employment
Bureau Service of the different Boards of Relief.
They are as follows .for 1943-44 :
Fresno ······- ··"···•················--·,······--···- ·······'···-$ 500.00
Long Beach .................................................... 2,000.00
Los Angeles .................................................... 4,000.00
East Bay .......................................................... 2,000.00
Sacramento ...............................,...................... 900.00
San Diego ........................................................ 2,200.00
San Francisco ................................................ 2,500.00
Total .......•...·......................................................$14,100.00
The Board of Control calls the Grand Lodge's particular attention to
the following-that due to prevailing conditions (and without impairing
their efficiency), voluntary reductions were made by various Boards of
Relief in their requests for appropriations for their E mployment Services,
which show in the aggregate a reduction of $5,100 from the amount appropriated last year, which was $19,200. The total appropriation recommended to the Finance Committee in this report is the lowest over · the
years, to back of 1939-40.
Detailed reports of each Board ~f Relief will be furnished the Grand
Secretary to form a part of this report.
Respectfully submitted,
E u r.ENE S. ELKU s,
J AMES R. ERSKINE,
BEN G. WRIGHT,
Vo/M. T. WHEELING,
]ACK
BUTLER,

c.

Committee.

693

Alameda
Balance on hand as per last r.eport....~------~·-·'···· ...................................:...$
Receipts-N one
.
Disbursements-None
Balance on hand July 31, 1943................................................................$

35.43

35.43

Bakersfield
Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Senior Wardens of four
Lodges and meets quarterly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary,
who receives $10.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded
in the sum of $500.00 each.
Balance on hand as per last report......·-··:·······--················
$
97.91
R eceipts
.
Per capita assessments local lodges..................................$ 338.55
Individual reimbursements ................'....................................
10.00
Total receipts and balance on hand..................................
D·isb11rsirments
Secretary's expense for year.....,..........................................$

$

446.46

$

146.46

300.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1943..................................:...........
East Bay

Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge and meets
monthly. There are two paid employees, a Secretary at a salary of
$2,012.50 per annum, and Assistant Secretary at $600.00. Treasurer is
bonded in the sum of $2,000.00 Compensation and automobile insurance
are carried. One automobile is used.
·
Balance on hand as per last report..................................
$11,213.43
R eceipts
Per capita assessment-local lodges..................................$ 5,19L73
California lodges......................................................................
754.59
Other lodges in U . S . ..........................................................
649.13
Funeral reimbursements ........................................................ 1,145.65
Interest .........................................:..........................................
152.31
125.00
Miscellaneous
115.46
8,133.87
Total receipts and balance on hand ..................................
Disbursements
For relief-California lodges.._................................:...........$ 797.70
Other lodges in U . S . ...................,................
643.14
Foreign lodges.....................................: ..............
27.01
Funerals ....................................................................•............... 1,371.20
Funeral service cost................................................................
599.00
Salaries ...................................................................................... 2,390.00
Rent .........................•.......................................•........................
360.00
Insurance and bonds ..............................................................
11.42
Telephone and telegraph......•...•.............................................
230.99
44.54
Postage ························-··························································
Office· supplies and furniture ................................................ ·
31.46
Auto expense.......:....................................................................
240.00

$19,347.30

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

694

Traveling expense..............................................................,...
Audit ..........................:......................................".......................
Donations ................................................................................
Vi.c tory tax .....................:.....................:..................:...............
Mountain View lot................. _............;::,..............................
Miscellaneous ...........................................:........................:.....

Long B.e ach

41.34
30.00
25.00
25.30
30.00
91.34

6,989.44
$12,357.86

Balance on hand July 31, 194!........................:...................

Fresno
Board of Relief is composed of three members each from four Lodges
and meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who
receive·s · $75.00 per month. The Secretary is bonded in the sum of
$1,000.00. Fidelity insurance and compensation also are carried.
·
$ . 43.45
Balance on hand as per last report ...........:.... :·:.....:...........

Receipts
Per capita assessment-local lodges..........~~ .............. ~ ..;..$
0

~~~~~a~ ~!~bi:fr;;~;rr~~t~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Individual reimbursements ..................................:..........,.:..

476.25
25.00
157.58
88.00

Total receipts and balance on hand ..:..............:................ ·

Disbursements·
For relief-Other lodges in. U . S...........................:.........$
Funeral committee service..................................................
Individual donations ........., ....................,...............................
Salaries ..............................................,.......................................
Printing and · statio'n ery .........................................................
Traveling expens_e...................................................................

$
29.94
157.58
84.31
726.60
.70
12.50

790.28

1,011.63
211.35

Glendale
Balance on hand as per last report ................................. .

$

226.80

.
Disbursements
· For relief-Other lodges in U. S .....................................$
Funerals ...............................................,........................:...........
Funeral Committee services.......... :...............................:.....
Telephone and telegraph ......................................................
Auto expense;.............:.............. ~ ..............................................
Donations ·.......:.......,........................................................... ......
Balance on hand July 31, 1943................................., ...............

Receipts
Per capita assessment--local lodges.... :.............................$ 2 194.36
California lodges ..................................................................
' 60.00
Other lodges in U. S. .......................................................... 1 698.00
Foreign lodge!I.................,...................................................:... ~· ' 60.00
Funeral reimbursements...............................................,.......:
308.52
Interest ......................................................................................
37.08
Miscellaneotis............................................................................
50.00

4,407.96
$ 6,312.39

Disb1,rsements
For relief-California lodges....................,...........................$
60.00
Other lodges in U. S ..................................... 1,600.15
Foreign lodges.........................-.........:~ ..............
70.00
Funerals ..............................................'....................................
495.25
Salaries ....................................................................................
900.00
180.00
71.89
Telephone and telegraph ....................,...............................:.
56.70
Postage ....................................................................................
16.32
Printing ~nd stationery........................................................
174.18
Auto expense.:,........................................................................ .
300.00
Traveling expense,.,.................................................................
65.00
Audit
25.00
Contrib-~t~d···t~---~~;i~;~~~·t··~~~~i~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
200.00
82.86
Miscellaneous ..........................................................................

fnes:tr;~~~--~-~d--b~-~d~:::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

$

360.00
92.15
80.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1943......,.....................................
532.15
·$

Total receipts and balance on hand........................ :::.:::: ..

Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens of each Lodge
and .. meets monthly. There are two paid employees, the Secretary, who
receives $150.00 per month, and· Assistant $15.00. The Secretary and
Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500.00 each. . Compensation and
auto insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last tepor.t....................................
$ 1,904.43

Total receipts attd balance on hand...................................

Balance on hand July 31, 1943................:...........................

.
Receipts
Other lodges in U . S. ......................:......:............... :...........:$
Funeral reimbursements ................................................:.......
Individual reimbursements .....,.........................................:....

695

410.00
40.45
65.00
31.97
10.00
93.00
$

4,297.35
$ 2,015.04

L.os Angeles

758.95

Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge and meets
monthly. There are three paid employees, a Secretary at a salary of
$250.00 per month, a typist or clerk at a salary of $100.00 per month, and
a field man at a salary of $175.00 per month. The Secretary and the
Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2,000.00 each. Fidelity, compensation
and automobile insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report..................................
$ 5,006.95

652.42

R eceipts

106.53

Honolulu
Board of Relief is composed of four Lodges and meets monthly. No
paid employees. Treasurer's bond is in the sum of $500.00.
Balance on hand as per last report....................................
$ 1,543.58
No report.

Per capita assessment-local lodges ..................................$15,787.30
California lodges., ...............................:....:............,.................. 4,544.50
Other lodges in U . S ........................................................... 10,879.30

in~:~~~~ --~~-~~~~:::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Total receipts and balance on hand ...................................

~i:~i

11
'

32,427.14
$37,434.09

696

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disbursements
For relief-California lodges ......:....~ ....................................$ 4,223.97
Other lodges in U S . .. :........·-···'····--·········:.. 10,664.27·
Foreign lodges.•................................................
822.61
Funerals ············-············--············---··------···---··----··----·---·--··---·--- 2,783.58
38.50
Drugs ·····------·---------·····--------·-······---·······································-·-·
Salaries ···-·--····-················------·-·:··-··-····-·······-·--·--·--···--···-·-·-·-·---· 5,787.78
544.00
Rent ·-·--·······-····-···-······--··--·····------··---·---------------··-----···-·······-----54.11
Insurance and taxes -------------·-·---·-·-----·--·-···----·----------·-···-···-·- •
383.54
Telephone and telegraph ... ·--··-·---····-·····-·-·····--···-··············-·-·
156.41
Postage ·-·-·-···--·············--·-···-·················-·--·---·---···----··----····-··-····
188.58
Printing and stationery ...... :·--·--·-----·-··-·····-····-··--····-······-·-···
43.78
Office supplies and furniture ................................................
Miscellaneous office expense .......•---·······-··-····-···-···········---··· . 254.13
138.58
100.00
78.09
Donations ------··-·--·--·--·-----·---·--··-·····-·····--·······--··-···---···--·······-··
Contributed to employment service ................................. . 4,000.00
395.35
Outside investigation...• -----'------·'····--···---·-··-:·-····-------·····-·-----Expense Grand Lodge representatives ............................
271.93
256.75
Clearing house reports---···'--·-·---··-·--··-··--·-·-·-·-·········-·····-··---·

Disbursements
For relief-Other lodges in U. S. ;......•......••..•..•.. ;...........$
Funeral Committee service ....... :.....................:•........~;...':... :..
Postage ·--···--····-·-····-----·-·--------· .. ······-··-·-·····--··-··-···-··-·····-··········
Printing and stationery ......................................................... .
Office supplies and furniture ....................................:.......... .

31.185.96

Balance on hand July 31, 1943........................................... .

$ 6,248.13

$

- 45.79

1,992.52
$ 2,038.31

26.00
600.00
728.25
60.00
10.00
21.75

.70

1,439.95

$

Balance on hand July 31, 1943..-....................................... .

598.36

Board of Relief is composed of officers of each . Lodge and meets at
the call of the President. There are no paid employees.
74.42
Balance on hand as per last report ................................... .
$

Total receipts and balance on hand ..................................

Receipts
Per capita assessment-local lodges._ ............ :................$ 1,798.20
California lodges......................................................................
662.71
Other lodges in U. S. ......................................................
42.93
War relief fund........................................................................
50.00
Funeral reimburserJ#ents........................................................
633.73
Interest ······-·-'·-----········----·-··-···········-···--·--·-----··--··--·······-··-········
27.79
Individual reimbursements .......·-·····---··-···-···---·····-···-·····-----·
190.00
Donations .................................................................,..............
337.08

163.70

104.50
34.75
.93

$

3,742.44

$ 6,106.40
Total receipts and balance on hand ..........·-·········-··-·····-··
Disbursements
For relief-California lodges......................................•.........$ 644.56
35.67
Other lodges in U . S. ·····-------··---···--··---·-····-·530.33
Funerals ---·---·--------·-···-···-·----··········-···········--·--·-:··--···--··---·----·-·-·
Funeral Committee services ........................: ................. ____ _
85.00
Salaries ···························-············--····-··--··-·-··-·-··--·-···-·····-·-····.- 1,231.40
10.06
Insurance and bonds ............................................................. .
Telephone and telegraph ............... :......................................
62.43
15.70
Postage ·············--··········--·············-·-··-········---··············-···········-28.61
Office supplies and furniture ..............................................
180.00
Auto expense ........................................................................... .
Traveling expense ......................................~ ...................... ~... ,..
50.00
25.00
Audit ··········-····--··--···--·························--··-··-··--···························
Donations ................................................................................
206.00
45.00
Christmas donations ......................................;.........................
3,524.76
375.00
Contributed to employment service................................. .
$ 2,581.64

Balance on hand July 31, 1943......................................... .

Richmond

Receipts
Per capita assessment-local lodges .................................. $
Individual reimbursements .. --········-·-·····--·-·--·-··········--··---·---··
Refund supplies .............................. ··:······· ................................

$

Sacramento

Receipts
Per capita assessment-local iodges ................................ $ 1,240.25
Other lodges in U . S. ·-·········--·---·----·-····-·········--···--·······-----·
600.00
Funeral reimbursements·-········----····--··-·-··--·--·---·--·--·····---·-··
152.27

Disbursements
For relief--California lodges....•..............~···············------·------$
Other lodges in U. S ...................................... .
Salaries ............................................................... ~-------------··-----··
Auto expense.............. :..................................................... :....,..
Audit ·--·---·-·-··-········-·---------·------··-·--······-·--··---···---·--·----------------··
Taxes ·-··----·---··-·---·--·--------------······--·--------------·--···-··---·-----------·--Miscellaneous ·-··--··--··---·--··--·---·--------····-----·---·--------·----------------

50.90

Board of Relief is composed of three members from each Lodge.
There are two paid employees, a Secretary and -a part-time assistant.
The total salary is $870.00 per annum. The Secretary is bonded in the
sum of $500.00.
Balance on hand as per last report..................................
$ 2,363.96

Pasadena

Total receipts and balance on hand ................ ·-········-·---··

41.75
2.50
3.76
1.15
1.74

Balance on hand July 31, 1943................................. ,..........

!~~~: -~~~~~-~-~--~-~:.~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Balance on hand as per last report ................................. .

697

San Bernardino
Balance on hand as of last report ................................... .

140.18

Receipts
Per capita assessment local lodges ....................................$
California lodges .........................~--·······-···-························-·---Other lodges in U . S. ····---··---····--···-··-·····-····················--·····
Foreign lodges .........,................... :..............................•...........

214.60

Total receipts and balance on hand ................................ :.

$
112.50
81.66
106.50
' 18.00

539.68

318.66
$

858 ..34

698

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disbursements
For relief--California lodges....................•......•... ~................$
Other lodges in U. S .....................................
Foreign lodges ....................... :......................... .
Postage ......................................................................................
Printing and stationery............................ ~ ............................ .

Grand Lodge of California......,........................................... .
Interest ..................................................................................... .

69.50
101.37

;w.oo

699
869.00
1,102.59

9,596.73

Called: Bonds 3 Puget Sd. & Lt. Co ........ :....................

3,028.88

195.42

Total receipts and balance on hand. _____,.............. .

$17,587.37

662.92

Disbursements
For relief-California lodges .............. ;.................................$ 1,528.22
Other lodges in U. S.................................. . 1,775.57
Foreign lodges ..............................................,_.
443.73
Repayment to Grand Lodge of California......................
10.00
Salaries ....................................................................................... 3,540.00
360.00
Rent ······.··-····--····--··--········--······--·--······--·······························~·
28.79
Insurance and bonds .....................................................'. ......
142.97
Telephone and telegraph ........................................:.............
Postage ..................................................................................... .
123.00
Printing and stationery..........................................................
16.38
Office supplies and furniture ....................... ~ ........................
19.15
Auto expeni;e......................................:.............., ......................
600.00
35.00
Audit .......................................................................................... .
Invested in securities ....•.. :.................................................... 3,034.60
22.20
Miscellaneous ···--·········································-··························
37.20
Less withholding tax from July salaries ........................

11,643.94

Balance on hand July 31, 1943 ...... :.....................................

$ 5,943.94

3.00

1.55

Balance on hand July 31, 1943:...c...................................... .

$

San Diego
Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and meets
monthly. There is one paid employee, the· Secretary, who receives a
salary of $810.00 per year. Fidelity insurance is carried. One automobile
is used.
$ 1,030.11
Balance on hand as per last report.. ................................. .

Receipts
' Per capita assessment-local lodges ..................................$. 1,721.64
Other lodges in U. S ........................ :................................ 1,120.00
Funeral reimbursements........................................................
265.32
Interest .......................................................................................
14.30
Individual reimbursements ................ .'................................... , 73.26

3,194.52

$ 4,224.63
Total receipts and balance on hand:························ .. ·········
· Disbursements
For relief-California lodges........................ ,.......................$......... :...... .
Other lodges in U. S. .................................... 1,010.00
Funerals ....................................................................................
308.46
Salaries ......................................................................................
653.92
Rent ....... '"'···:....................................................... ,....................
90.00
Insurance and bonds..............................................................
5.50
Telephone and telegraph ..................................................... :
32.72
Printing and stationery.......................................................
7.21
Auto expense ................................................................. :..........
86.25
Traveling expense....................................................................
15.00
Audit ................,...... :.................................................................
3.75
Contributed to employment service.................................. 1,291.24
Miscellaneous .... '. ......................................................·........ .-......
.95
3,505.00
Balance on hand July 31, 1943..........................................

$

719.63

San Jose
Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens of five Lodges
and meets quarterly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives a ·salary of $50.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer are
bonded in the amount of $500.00 each. Auto insurance is carried. One
automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report ................................ ..
$ 887.91

Receipts
Per capita assessment-local lodges .................................. $
Other lodges in U. S...........................................................
Interest ....................................................................................:.
Individual reimbursements.'.................................................. .
Account of Hall Committee .................... .'........................ .

San Francisco

Total receipts and balance on hand ................................. .

Board of Relief is composed of the Master or a representative of
each Lodge and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, a Secretary, who receives a salary of $250.00 per month, and a typist or clerk,
who receives $50.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded
in th,e sum of $2,000.00 each. Fidelity and compensation insurance are
carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report..................................
$ 4,961.76

Disbursements
For relief-California lodges.:................:............................. $
Other lodges in the U. S ............................ .
Funeral Committee servia:es ......... ,........ ~ .........:.................
Salaries ................................................................................... .
Telephone and telegraph .......................................... ~ ...........
Postage .....................................................................................
Printing and stationery ....................................................... .
Office supplies and furniture ................................................
Auto expense ...................... ,.............: ...................................... .
Account of Hall Committee ............................................. ;..

Receipts
Per capita assessment-local lodges ........................•......... $ 4,414.00
California lodges.'................................................................... ,. 1,387.13
Other lodges in U. S.................. :..................................:....... 1,672.33
Foreign lodges ............. ,................................... ,., .. ,........... ;.... :-··
201.69

Balance on hand July 31, 1943......................................... .

280.69
293.50

1.56
50.00
60.95

686.70
$ 1,574.61

10.00
302.00
7.00
300.00
2.20
4.47
12.47
20.00
2.75
725.89

65:00

$

848.72

700

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Santa Barbara
Balance on hand as per last report.. ........ :........~.:........ :.~.

Receipts
Per· capita assessment-local lodges .....,..........................$

$

373 ..16

345.60

Total receipts and balance on hand ............ ;..................... .

Disbursements
For relief-California lodges....................,............ :... ,, .........$
Other lodges in U. S ..............,.......,.............. .
Salaries ..................................................................................... .
Telephone and :telegraph .........................................,........... .
Traveling expense................................................................. .
Donations ........................................................ ,...................... .

$

27.56

40.00
.48
75.00
10.00

365.48

$

7.68

Santa Monica
Board . of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and holds
three meetings per month. There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who
receives $180.00 per annum. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in
the amount of $500.00 each.
Balance on hand as per last report ..................... :..............
$ 223.13

Receipts
Per capita assessment-local lodges ............ ...................... $ . 433.00
20.00
California lodges ...........................................................,.... :...... .
10.30
Other lodges in U. S .......................................................... .
Total receipts and balance on hand .................................. .

Disbursements
For relief-California lodges ................................................$
Other lodges in U. S. ,................................ .
Funerals ............................................. ......................................
Aprons ......................................................................................
Salaries .....................................................................................
Postage ............................ ~ ..................................................... .
Printing and stationery........................................................
Audit .........................: ............................................................. .
Donations ............................ ,.................................................. .

463.30

$
20.00
10.30
292.50
30.30
130.00
4.50
9.24
5.00
5.15

Balance on hand July 31, 1943............~ ...............................

686.43

544.19

$

142.24

Stockton
Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and meets
monthly. There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who receives a salary,
including expenses, of $80.00 per annum. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report .................... :.............
$
27.78

Receipts
Per capita assessment-local lodges ................................ :.$
California lodges ........ ;...........................................................
Individual reimbursements ................................ ;.................. .
Total receipts and balance on hand ..'............................... .

Disbursements
, For relief-California locjges ............•...•..:.i..'............:...........$
Funerals .....•.................................•.............•.•.~ ................... ~ ...... .
Salaries ..........................................................: ...........................
Teleph.o ne and telegraph ...... ,............. ,.......,...._•.,.-;,•.,........:..
Postage· ................ ., ................................. :.............. ~················

78.55
80.00
180.00
18.36 ..
.57

334.48

Balance on hand July 31, 1943;............. :.....•. -~ ........,.......

$

14.11

Adopted and referred to Committee on Finance.

240.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1943......................................... .

701

240.05
.76
80.00

320.81

$

348.59

REPORT OF GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
Trial Record No, 502
To the Most Worshipful Grand 'Lodge of California :
Your committee on grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 502 (also No. 581), reports as· follows:
A charge of un-Masonic · conduct set forth in one specification of
embezzlement, was filed against petitioner in February, 1926. .
A trial was regularly had which resulted in the suspension of accused.
At the meeting of Grand Lodge the action was reversed and the
matter was remanded for a new trial. On the second trial, which was
Numbered 581, the result was a finding of guilt and a like sentence of
suspension. This action was -affirmed by Grand Lodge at its session
of 1927.
·
The conviction arose out of a grand jury audit of petitioner's books
who, at the time, was under-sheriff of the County of Tulare. The District
Attorney who prosecuted accused, is, according to ··a, letter appearing in
the files, a member of a near by Masonic Lodge. · ,:•
Dinuba Lodge No. 385, of which petitioner was a member before
his suspension, gave notice of the application for reinstatement to
the entire membership, as far as practical, stating. the meeting at which
the petition for reinstatement was received and giving notice that action
would be taken at the next stated meeting. There was but one dissenting
vote of the members present.
·
Petitioner has been employed from 1926 to 1929 as a linotype operator
on the Dinuba Sentinel; from 1929 to 1934 he was employed by a printing
cr,mcern in Los Angeles; frotn 1934 · to 1940 he was district manager for
a company operating out of San Jose, California, 'and from 1940 to the
present time has been owner of a printing shop in Dinuba. These facts
appear in a letter from the Secretary of the Lodge which further states
that the money involved was offered to be restored . but the offer was
rejected.
The file in this case contains several letters from responsible busin.e ss
and professional men all of which are favorable to applicant and endorsing
his petition but one from the former district attorney, to which reference
has been already made, is particularly convincing to your committee.
Among other things it contains the following language:
"I was a witness before the Lodge at Dinuba, and also being a member of an adjoining Lodge, I was very familiar with the trial, and concurred with the Lodge in the action it took at that time .
I now understand that the Dinuba Lodge has reelected him to membership, and I again concur with the Lodge, for I feel that Mr. H. is
now just as worthy of Masonic friendships as any other good and loyal

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

citizen, and I believe that he has earned the restoration to membership
in the Lodge, and were I a member of the Dinuba Lodge and present at
the time of the election for restoration to membership, I would certainly
have voted for it.
Under the circumstances, I hope that ·your Grievance Committee,
when called upon to review the action of the Dinuba Lodge,, will approve
it, and that I may again have the privilege of sitting in Lodge with Mr. H."
Your committee recommends that the petition of C. R. H. for restoration to all of the rights and privileges of Masonry be granted and offers
the following resolution:
Resolved, That the petition of said former member of Dinuba Lodge,
No. 385, F. & A. M., be and the same is hereby granted and he be
restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

Trial Record No. · 726

702

FRANK B. BELCHER,
ARTHUR W. BROUILLET,
Lours
DRAPEAU,
OLIN L. BERRY,
JoE L. SHELL,

c.

Committee.

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 930
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, to which was referred the application of J. S. T.
for restoration to all the rights and privileges of Masonry, be.gs leave
to report as follows:
The applicant was expelled by Rising Light Lodge No. · 397, on
December 7, 1937, pursuant to the provisions of Section 332 of Constitution and Ordinances, he having theretofore entered a plea of. guilty in
the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles to a charge of Grand
Theft, and having been committed to State Prison.
The applicant was confined in San Quentin Prison for a period of approximately two years and five months and then returned to Los Angeles.
He has had practically continuous employment since his release, and is
now operating his own apparently successful office as a public accountant.
He was granted a pardon by the Governor of this State on September 9,
1942, restoring him to all his rights as a citizen.
The favorable recommendations presented in support of his application included a very impressive and persuasive letter from the Superior
Court Judge who had committed him to State Prison; and all strongly
indicate a complete rehabilitation of the applicant.
The Lodge which expelled the applicant has voted by a vote of
fifty to one to petition Grand Lodge to restore him to all the rights and
privileges of Masonry. Your committee believes that this application
should be granted, and offers the following resolution.
Resolved, That the petition of J. S. T. for restoration to all the
rights and privileges of Masonry, be, and the same is hereby granted.
Dated: October 11, 1943.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee to which has been referred the .application for resto all. the rights and privileges of Masonry of L. J. F., begs
leave to report as follows:
~oration

The applicant was expelled by Sequoia Lodge No. 349, on January 5,
1932, and that action was affirmed at the 1932 communication of Grand
Lodge.
The misconduct of which the applicant was convicted by the Lodge
consisted of the alienation by bim of the affections of the wife of a
. Master .Ma.son, resulting in the divorce of said Master Mason and his
wife; that the applicant thereafter married this woman, and abandoned
her about a year after their marriage; that the applicant exhibited to his
wife an unfavorable report he was making relative to a petitioner for the
degrees of Masonry. He was found guilty of the specifications and of unMasonic conduct by a vote of six to one.
After being divorced in 1933 by the woman involved in the charges
upon which he was tried before the Lodge, he remarried at Reno, Nevada,
on August 3, 1940, artd now lives with his wife and child in San Leandro.
Your committee is informed inforll]ally that Sequoia Lodge has
voted to oppose the restoration of this applicant. Your committee has
endeavored to determine whether or not this action by the Lodge is based
upon the conduct of the appl:.:ant since his expulsion, and after interviewing representatives of the Lodge have concluded that the Lodge was
not at the time of its action in possession of the information as to the
rehabilitation of the applicant which has been presented to your committee.

In support of his application the applicant has presented ;i number
of letters of recommendation from very responsible and prominent citizens
of Alameda County. All of these letters are highly commendatory of the
character and conduct of the applicant, during the past eleven years. They
indicate to your committee that the applicant has, during ' those 'eleven
years which have elapsed since his expulsion, pursued a course of honorable conduct, and · has become a respected citizen of the community in
which he lives.
Your committee believes that this application may well be granted,
restoring the applicant to Masonry as a member at large, in order that
he may apply for membership in a Lodge in the community where he
has rehabilitated himself, and your committee offers the following
resolution.
Resolved, That the application of L. J. F. for restoration to all the
rights and privileges of Masonry, be and the same hereby is granted.
Dated: · October 11, 1943.

FRANK B. BELCHER,
ARTHUR W. BROUILLET,
Lours
DRAPEAU,
OLIN L. BERRY,
]OE L. SHELL,

c.

c.

Committee.

'

.

FRANK B. BELCHER,
ARTHUR W. BROUILLET,
Lours
DRAPEAU,
OLIN L. BERRY,
JoE L. SHELL,

Adopted.

703

Committee.

Report not adopted.

. 704

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Trial Record No. 1025

But lurking in the background in. this case is apparently a much
more sinister situation.
We are fearful the episodes above described may have been the manifestation of a blight in this Masonic Lodge whereby individuals, in greater
or lesser number, have so far forgotten their duties and their obligations
as to blackball petitioners for the degrees for no other reason than to
satisfy some fancied slight or insult, or to further some perverted idea
of the person· or persons casting such ballots. And we are concerned that
perhaps there is · developing here some sort of racial antagonism which
has no place ever in Masonry. Perhaps such conditions, if they be true,
may be developed by a new trial in this case.
Moreover, in an interview with representatives of this Lodge, it
was the feeling of some of them that on the trial .under review all evidence
available was not secured or presented because the accuser did not have
the aid of a lawyer while the accused had the benefit of representation
by able counsel. Under the circumstances before us in this case your
committee is of the opinion that there is considerable merit to this
suggestion.
We express no opinion as to the truth or falsity of any charge or
specification here under review, or that may be hereafter added.
·
Your committee recommends the adoption of the following resolution:
Be it Resolved, in Trial Record No. 1025 that action of the trial commission in acquitting the accused of the first specification in the charges
against him be affirmed and that the action of the trial commission as to
the second specification in said charges in suspending the accused be
reversed and set aside, and the matter be remanded for a new trial in
some Lodge in the jurisdiction, to be designated by tr. e M. W. Grand
Master, other than the Lodge of the accuser and the accused; that the
Grand Master designate counsel to aid the accuser and that the accuser
be permitted, if he so desires, to add, change, or amend the specifications
and charges, so that any and all issues as against the accused may be
heard and determined.
Respectfully submitted,

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
On October 6, 1942, a stated meeting was held of the Lodge of which
the accuser and the accused· were members. The accuser was.. then Master
of the Lodge. While the Lodge was in session, the M·astei;, announced
that the Investigating Committee had reported adversely upon the petition
of an individual to receive the degrees of Masonry in that ·L odge.
After the Lodge was closed the accused went to the Ma~ter's station
and asked to be permitted to see the petition which ha<,! been rejected. It
is a fair inference from this request that he desii;:ed to know who the
members of the committee were. Thereupon the ·Master said to him,
"Who in · the hell are you that you want to see., tbis?'~ To this remark,
the accused rejoined: "Wait a minute, pleai;e, I· am , a little older man
than you are, and you have no business talking to me in that tone of
voice."
In the following year, after the term of this ·Master had expired; he
filed charges against the accused, with two specifications : The first
specification was that the .accused demanded of him the names ~f the
Investigating Committee in a "loud and arrogant manner." . The second
specification was that the accused called the Secretary of the Lodge a
son-of-a-bitch. ·
·
The trial commission acquitted the · accused on the first 'Specification;
convicted him upon the second, and fixed the penalty at suspension.

.

.

.

.

The Secretary testified that' he called the accused on the . telephone,
and asked him to make a Past Master's jewel, as the accused had done
for many years gone by,. and that the accused then said to him. over the
telephone that he would not make up the jewel "for you or any other
son-of-a-bitch."
·
The use of this language was categorically denied by ·the accused.
He said he received a telephone call from the Secretary, who asked him_
to make the jewel, ·and that he declined to do so. That the telephone
over· which the conversation was ha,d. was out in an open jewelry store
in plain hearing of one of his women clerks and _of customers who w~re
there present. The woman clerk testified that she heard the conv:ersat10n
of her employer, and that he did not use the language complained of.
A careful reading of the record disclosed that there was evidently
very bitter personal feeling between the accuser and the accused, and
some of the witnesses against the accused. The Master who presided
at the trial would not permit counsel for the accused on cross-examinatibn
to inquire into this feeling. It is settled law that when a witness testifies
to a fact upon cross-examination, inquiry ·may be made to develop his
state of mind. Not to permit this is an undue limitation of the right which
every accused has of cress-examination of witnesses who testify_against
him, and a denial of due process of law, guaranteed to every Master
Mason before he may. be deprived of his Masonic rights and privileges.
For this reason alone, the findings and judgment of the trial commission
may not stand.
While it is highly regrettable if either the accuser or accused used
the language charged to him by the other, assuming they did, there have
been Masonic offenses brought to the attention of Grand Lodge more
serious in nature. Therefore, your committee has discussed the advis·ability of terminating the case now by presenting to this Grand Lodge a
resolution acquitting the accused.

705

FRANK B. BELCHER,
ARTHUR W. BROUILLET,
Lours
DRAPEAU,
OLIN L. BERRY,
JOE L.
H.E LL,

c.
s

Committee.

Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1024
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1024, begs leave to report as follows :
On December 1, 1942, written charges of un-Masonic conduct were
filed against Brother M. D. J. of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674 by the
Junior Warden thereof, upon the following. specifications, to-wit:
First: That for some time prior to the 11th day of July, 1940, and
at all times since, he has so openly and notoriously associated himself
with a certain woman, not his wife, known as J. S. P., as to bring himself
into contempt and the craft to shame and disrepute.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Second: That on or about the 10th day of November, 1941, at the
City of Long Beach, he . did conduct himself in a lewd and lascivious
manner with a woman known as J. S. P.

At the outset your committee is willing to concede that the commissioners were justified in exonerating the accused on Specifications "First"
and "Third" because no substantial proof was offered on either of these
specificatioris. Your committee has reviewed the entire transcript of testimony, covering llS typewritten pages, and the facts as we see them are as
follows :
On December 23rd, 1922, accused married his present wife, Mrs.
S. J. They have three children, aged 18, 17, and 15 years.
On July 10th, 1940, she instituted a suit for separate maintenance
against the accused, who is a physician and surgeon practicing his profession in the City of Long Beach. The accused subsequently countered
with a suit for divorce, which was later denied, but at the time of his
Masonic trial, in January, 1943, he had apparently instituted another suit
for divorce. Mrs. J . obtained a decree of separate maintenance and sup.port for ·,herself and the three children, as well as their custody.
· The accused had evidently become infatuated with the woman named
in specifications 1, 2, and 3, of the charges whom we shall hereafter refer
to as the "Affinity" and who was undoubtedly the direct cause of the
institution of divorce proceedings by the wife of accused. The affinity
was
divorcee and had been a supposed friend of Mrs. J . for about
fifteen years. It was not, however, until about a week before Decoration
Day; 1940, that she definitely had cause to suspect that all was not well.
Shortly. thereafter ~ ¥rs. J. employed a detective agency to shadow her
husband; the a.c cused, as a result of which on November ll, 1941, accused
was observ.ed from.' the street, with the affinity in 11- nude condition in
her apartment, , being No . .36, and upon the detectives knocking on the
door and being admitted after a few minutes, they found accused in the
bathroom without underwear,.:. and only with his trousers on, but attempting to put on his socks: ·The affinity was clad in a nightrobe and
she and he attempted to explain his presence in that condition on the
ground that he was· taking a bath. It should here be noted that accused
had apartment No. 33 in the. same apartment house and no valid reason
was given as, to why he was not taking a bath in his own apartment. The
bathroom was not wet, nor was there any evidence that his ·statement was
true. It should further be noted that the testimony of the wife, the head
of the detective agency, and the latt.er's two operatives indicated that
the roll-away bed in the apartment where accused was found on this
occasion had been· pulled dowri and the bed in the back bedroom "was
all mussed up." .
.
The accused called no witnesses whatsoever to refute the claims of
his wife and the detectives, but he and his counsel attempted to impeach
the veracity of the wife and detectives by showing that their statements
as to having seen accused and his affinity in a nude condition was improbable because "the curtains were drawn on all windows" and that
they were "roller blinds" a nd riot ordinary curtains as testified to by his
wife and the detectives.
Your committee is at a loss to understand why these precautions
were so necessary if his conduct was above reproach.
The accused in his own testimony admitted that "some of the witnesses testified truthfully." He admitted that he was in his affinity's
apartment, but stated that he was washing (at 11 :15 p. m.) ?pd had Ii.is
shirt on. The above fairly represents the testimony supporting specification
No. 2.
Coming now to specification No. 4, the accused admitted that in
January, 1942, he was sentenced to jail by one of' the Judges of the

706

Third: That on or about the 10th day of November, 1941, at the
City of Long Beach, he did live in a state of cohabitation and adultery
with a woman known as ]. S. P. ·
Fourth: That on divers occasions between the 11th day of July, 1940,
and the 27th day of July, 1942, he then and there having the present
ability so to do nevertheless wilfully disobeyed the process or order lawfully issued by the Superior Court of the State of California, in and for
the County of Los Angeles.
A special meeting of the Lodge was held on December 10th, 1942,
for the election of trial commissioners, at which meeting nine commissioners, one of whom was the Senior Warden, were elected to hear and
determine the charges. The Master set Monday, the 4th day of January,
1943, at 8 :00 p. m .' in the .New Masonic Temple (Long Beach), as the time
and place for the first meeting of the commissioners. Proper notice of
proceeding~ was given to all interested parties. The trial was held at the
above time and place, with Brother Francis H. Gentry, Master of the
Lodge, presiding.
· ·
The accuser and accused ·were represented by c.iunsel and it was
stipulated that all proceedings were thus far J_"egular.
The accused entered a plea of "Not Guilty" as · to each separate
specification in the accusation. -.
At the c'o nclusion of the triaJ the comm1ss10ners balloted on each
separate specification, with the following results:
First specification: "Guilty, 2".; "Not guilty, 7."
Second specification: "Guilty; O"; " Not guilty, 9."
Third specification: "Guilty, 1'' ; "Not guilty, 8."
Fourth specificati.on: "Guilty, 1"; "Not guilty, 8."
The findings of "Not Guilty" by the Commissioners were submitted
to the Lodge on the next evening, being the stated meeting, of January
5th, 1943, as a result of which the accused stood acquitted and exonerated
of all charges.
No appeal from the decision of the commissioners was taken by the
accuser, and under circumstances where the testimony is so conflicting
that reasonable men might disagree concerning the same, your Committee
on Grievances would be precluded from disturbing their findings on question of fact. In the present case, however, there is no such conflict, and
a serious miscarriage of justice in the opinion of the committee has resulted. (See Section 341 of Constitution and Ordinances.)
The admissions of defendant, himself, as to specification No. 2 were
sufficient to convict him and certified court records definitely established
the truth of Count No. 4.
The line of questioning indulged in by some of the commissioners
also indicates to your committee that a majority of said commissioners
were prejudiced against the wife of the accused to such an extent as to
have rendered them unfit and unfair in the discharge of their sworn
duties as commissioners. Some of the questions put to a witness for the
accuser were furthermore insulting. The commissioners were apparently
more interested in acquitting the accused than they were to get at the
truth or falsity of the charge.

a

707

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANP LODGE. OF CAI..lFORNIA

Superior Court of Los Angeles County at Long Beach for contempt of
court in failing to obey the court's order for .support, of his wife .and
chlldren. Accused could not successftilly deny th1i; charge because c~rttfie.d
. c~pies of the various orders of the. court which were introduced m evidence at the Masonic trial of accused. indicated that he had been before
the ·C ourt on various orders to show cause or continuances thereof on
August 19th and September 30th, 1940; April 7th; April 14th; J.uly ~9th;
· November 10th (the day before the date of the second specification);
November 24th, 1941; and January 19th; July 27th; September 25th; 0.ctober 5th, and November 16th, 1942! and had on several of those occas10ns
been adjudged guilty of contempt by the Court, or allowed to pur~e
himself of contempt upon paying the amount of arrears. The commissioners were evidently impressed by the leniency of the Court in not
sending. accused to jail on each :occasfo.n ~hat h~ was in .contemp~, but we
are not so impressed beca,use we reahz.e that m · order. to pe~m1t a man
to support his wife and family, courts' prefei.. to . be len~e':1t with a reca~­
citrant father and husband, rather than send him to Jail and have his
family become public charg~s or the object of charity.

Trial Record No. 990

708

As to this ' specification, we believe that counsel for the accuser c.orrectly stated the position of the fraternity at page 105 of the transcript,
. where he said:
"He is charged with having wilfully · refused to obey the ord~r of
the Court. Only certain of those orders are charged, . only . certain of
those omissions are charged.. Now apart from th.at entirely
th~ fact
that he was in some instances given an opportumty of purging ~1mself
of that contempt and that doesn't alter the fact that the Court did find
that he was ab!~ to obey the order of the Court and, being able so to
do, he nevertheless failed to comply with the Court's Or.der. That we
urge is a Masonic offense; that we urge holds the fraternity up to con' tempt by a course of conduct that contin~ally avoids .and eva~es and
refuses to comply with the lawfully constituted authority of this : land.
The proceedings are all here. We don't care wh.ethe; he. purged himself
or whether he didn't purge himself. The question 1~, did he . ref~se to
obey the Court's order. If he did or not, this record 1s .the best ev~dei:ice
of it and for that reason I say that any evidence or any !me of questioning
as t~ his h'!ving purged himself of the contef!lpt is not proper."
.. ·

:s

Fro~ the foregoing history of facts, your comri:iittee. feels t~at ~he
acquittal of the accused in this case was a serious miscarriage of iusttce.
your committee therefor.e offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption.
Resolved, That in the .Matter of Trial Re~ord No. 1024, iqvolving
the accused, M. D . ]., a member of Los Cerritos .Lodge No. 674, the
verdict of acquittal of the commissioners be set aside and that the accused be adjudged guilty of specifications 2 and 4 of' the charges, and
that the same constitute un-Masonic conduct in each instance, and that
. the said accused be ex pelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
FRANK B. BELCH ER,
ARTHUR W. B ROUILLET,
Loms
DRAPE AU,
OLIN L. BERRY,
}OE L. SHELL,

c.

Committee.

Adopted.

709

To the Most Worshipf11l Grand I.,odge of California:
Menorah Lodge No. 623, F. & A. M. has again. petitioned Grand
Lodge for the restoration of G. D. G. (Trial Record No. 990) an expelled Mason, to the rights and privileges of Masonry, un:der the provisions of Section 347 of the Constitution. This is the second application
by said Lodge on behalf of said expelled member.
The previous history of this case which we have taken very largely
from the latest petition filed by Menorah Lodge for the reinstatement of
this former brother, and which we found to be correct, is as follows:
G. D. G. was formerly a Mason in good standing of Menorah Lodge
No. 623. He was expelled by default, after he had been convicted of a
felony, to-wit, second degree murder. Notice of the conviction was formally served upon him as required by the Constitution, on July 7, 1940,
and on .his failure to demand a trial he was declared expelled by the Lodg e
on November 5, 1940.
Executive clemency was granted 'to him by the then Governor of
California on April 4, 1941, by commuting his sentence to time served
and on July 1, 1941, he requested Menorah Lodge to petition Grand
Lodge in his behalf as above stated. The Master of his Lodge in that year
thereupon appointed a committee to investigate and examine into the
matter and report to . the Lodge, ·This committee returned a favorable
report, and at the stated meeting of the Lodge held on August 5th, 1941,
a vote by secret ballot was taken on the question as to whether or no~
the Lodge should petition Grand Lodge for the restoration of this former
member to the rights and privileges of · Masonry. The ballot was 58 members favoring petitioning .Grand Lodge, and four against, being considerably mo:e than the requisite two-thirds vote of the members present.
Menorah Lodge thereupon petitioned Grand Lodge for the restoration of this former brother, whereupon the said petition was, at the 1941
Communication of Grand Lodge, referred to this committee, which recommended that said petition should be denied at that time, without prejudice,
for the reason that it felt that G. D . G. had not been released from in~ ·
carceration a sufficient period of time to clearly demonstrate that he
had been properly rehabilitated to justify his being restored to membership in the fraternity.
Since the filing of the first petition further executive clemency has
been granted to this former brother by the Governor of California, who,
on or about December 31st, 1942, granted him a full and unconditional
pardon and restoration to all civil rights under the law.
The petition now before Grand Lodge was filed with Menorah Lodge
No. 623 on August 2nd, 1943, under the provisions of Section 347 of the
Constitution. The Master of the Lodge thereupon appointed a committee,
consisting of two Past Masters who are lawyers and who had served on
the previous committee and three laymen who are prominent business
executives, two of whom did not know petitioner personally. A copy
of the committee's report and the exhibits attached to the report was
submitted to your committee.
At the stated meeting last m entioned, to-wit, Afig ust 2nd, 1943, t.h e
r equest of said G. D. G. was read to the Lodge and the motion was made
that a vote be taken at the next stated meeting, to-wit, September 7, 1943, ·
on the question as to whether or not the Lodge should petition Grand
Lodge for the restoration of this brother to all the rights and privileges of

710

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonry. A written notice that such vote would be taken was sent to
every member of the Lodge, on August 25th, 1943.
At the stated meeting of Septemb~r 7th, 1943, fifty members of the
Lodge being present (which we are advised is representative and an
average attendance at stated meetings) the committee theretofore appointed by the Master made its report to the Lodge and a secret ballot
was thereupon ordered, and as a result of said ballot 47 members were
in favor of the Lodge petitioning Grand Lodge for the restoration of
G. D.' G. and three members against--agaii:t being considerably mc:ire than
the requisite two-thirds vote of the members present.
In view of the fact that this case has been before your committee
of Grand Lodge on a previo.u s occasion, we do not deem it necessary to
go into the facts of the case at length; excepting to say that applicant
was convicted of second degree murder arising out of ·a conspiracy trial
involving several of the leaders of the deaning and dyeing business .in
Los Angeles at a time when there was considerable sabotage being
practiced in the cl~aning and dyeing business. The basis of the conspiracy
trial however was that seven and one-half (7~) years before the return
of the indict~ent and trial, a negro' porter had been ·found dead in one
of these establishments, under circumstances indicating murder. There
was no proof direct or otherwise that accused had anything to do with
the murder or had any part therein.
Applicant has lived in Los Angeles since 1912. He married his
present wife in 1914 and his family consists of his wife and two children,
a. son who is now serving in the United States Air Corps, and a daughter
who graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles, and
who is married to an officer in the United States Army.
He has continued in the same business practically during the past
thirty years. He owns his own home; is connected fraternally with
numerous · social and fraternal organizations, and was never involved in
any difficulties, least of all charges of moral turpitude prior to the time
he was indicted on the charge above referred to. He seems to have been
a man of good civil qualities, interested in public welfare, and 'was
honored by his Lodge in having been elected Master thereof about fifteen
years ago.
Your committee is therefore satisfied that G. D . G., being the subject of Trial Record No. 990, is fully rehabilitated and entitled to be
restored to the Lodge which has petitioned to that effect in his behalf.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption.
That in the matter of Trial° Record No. 990, involving one G. D. G.,
a member of Menorah Lodge No. 623, . that the petition of said Lodge
on behalf of said member should be granted, and that said member should
be restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry, and your committee so recommends.
Dated: October 13, 1943.
ARTHUR W. BROUILLET,
FRANK B. BELCHER,
]OE L. SHELL,
OLIN L. BERRY,
Committee.
Adopted.

Chairman Belcher of th·e Grievance Committee, stated that
the petition for restoration on Trial Record No. 946 had been
withdrawn.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

711

REPORTS . OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Calif~rnia :
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has examined the records of the

issu~nce of dispe1~sations for various purposes and approval of resolutions
of hfe memb~rsh1ps by the Grand Master, and find the same to be in

accordance with law.

We, therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand Master in that
respect be approved.
.
DANA R. WELLER,
GEORGE L. }ONES,
JoHN SrEWART Ross,
Committee.

Adopted.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred tha:t part
of the Grand Master's message referring to decisions rendered by the
Grand Master, has had the same under consideration and. reports as
follows:
Decisions numbered 1 to 16, inclusive.
We find each of them to be in accord with our Masonic law, and
recommend their approval.
DANA R. WELLER,
GEORGE L. }ONES,
}OHN STEWART Ross,
Committee.

Adopted.

To the Most Wo~shipful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved, That Section 202, sub. 6 be amended as follows · to read as
follows:
6th. To transmit to the Grand Secretary month1y and annual reports
in such form as shall be provided.
DANA R. WELLER,
GEORGE L. }ONES,
JoaN STEWART Ross,
Committee.

The report was adopted and the Sections were amended by
more than five-sixths vote.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
. Yo.ur Committee on Jurisprudence submits herewith . the proposed
legislation to execute the policy,of requiring certificates of proficiency of
Secretaries of Lodges as follows:
Resolved, That a new sectiop be and is hereby added to the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge, to be numbered 187a, to read as follows:
~efore a Secretary-elect can be installed, he shall produce to the installing ?ffi~er .the c~rtific.ate of th~ G;and Lecturer, or of the inspector
of the d1stnc~ m which his Lodge 1s situated, certifying that he has personally exammed such Secretary-elect, and that he is proficient in those

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

712

portioi:s of the Constitution' and Ordinances relating to the duties. of the
Secretary of a Lodge and to the government of a Lodge.
DANA R. WELLER,
GEORGE L. }ONES,
JoHN STEWART Ross,
Committee.

· Report adopted by more than five-sixths vote.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on .Jurisprudence to which. was referred the matter
of refunding contributio~s to the Masonic Homes by applicants, reports
as follows:
·
An amendment to Section 100 of the Ordinances will in our opinion
accomplish the object to be attained.
We, therefore, propose the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
R~solved, that Section 100 of the Ordinances be a~d the same is
hereby amended, by adding at the end thereof the. followmg pragraph:
If an applicant shall die before being raise·d, or shall be denied advancement by action of the Lodge, the fact shall be certified to the Grand
Secretary by the Secretary of the Lodge, and the Grand Secretary shall
thereupon cause the contribution of the applicant to b~ returned to the
Lodge, which shall thereupon refund the sam~ to the :v1dow or representative of a deceased applicant, or to the applicant demed advancement.
.
DANA R. WELLER,
GEORGE L. JONES,
JoHN STEWART Ross,
Committee.

Report adopted by more than five-sixths vote.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
accordance with the' direction of this Grand Lodge at .its last
Annual Communication that the Jurisprudence Committee prepare l~gis­
lation to amend Section 298 and 308 of the Ordinances, your Committee
now submits the following:,
Resolved, That Section 298 be amended as follows; Add at end o.~
section the words "or mailed to him by the Secretary at his usual address.
Resolved, That Section 308 be amended as follows:
Add at end of section "or substituted service may be made
the
Secretary forwarding such summons and copy of the charges by reg1stere.d
mail addressed to the accused at his actual or last ~now~ place of residence, provided the return receipt shows the genume signature of the
accused."
DANA R. WELLER,
GEORGE L. JONES,
J oHN STEW ART Ross,
Committee.

In

?Y

Report adopted by more than. five-sixths vote.
To the Most Worshipful Grand·Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which has be.en
referred the recommendation made by the Grand Treasurer that the m-

713

vestment of the general funds of Grand Lodge be limited to Federal,
State, County, or municipal bonds legal for savings banks.
The Grand Lodge at the present time limits and prescribes the character of investments that can be made of the endowment funds of the
Masonic Homes and of Life Membership funds but does not make any
limitation on the investment of the general funds except to the extent of
twenty~fi.ve thousand dollars ($25,000.00) which are required to be held
in sound banking institutions or invested in safe interest carrying bonds
as provided in Section 655 of the Edicts and Resolutions. The matter
of the investment of endowment funds which are• of considerable magnitude has been given careful attention and the rule therefore would be
properly applied to the investment of the general funds. Your committee
therefore recommends that Section 655 of the Edicts and Resolutions be
repealed and further recommends the adoption of the following resolution:
655. Regulation as to the handling and investm~nt of Grand Lodge
funds: Resolved that no appropriations of the funds of the Grand -Lodge
shall be made, except in times of great loss or great calamity, when the
moneys in the general fund do not exceed the sum of twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00); and, be it further resolved, that the funds of this
Grand Lodge in the general fund shall at all times be held in sound
banking institutions or the same invested in Federal, State, County or
Municipal bonds legal for investment of savings banks.
The Jurisprudence Committee has approved the foregoing resolution
in principle and as to sum.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to submit the following
report :
Audit of Accounts
Your committee has again employed Brother Floyd F. Webb of the
firm of Ruckstell, Burrows and Webb, certified public accountants, to
examine the books and records of the Grand Treasurer, the Grand Secretary, the Masonic Homes of California and the Endowment Fund. The
reports of Brother Webb's examination of these records have been filed
with your committee and have h·ad its consideration. These reports are
now on file with the records of Grand Lodge and will be published in the.
annual proceedings in the report of the Grand Secretary. They indicate
that all records are correct and in proper shape and all receipts properly
accounted for and all expenditures properly made.
The accountants now make a supplemental report on the cash r:e-·
ceived since the close of the fiscal year on July 31st. This supplement.al
report is most helpful to the committee in making calculations on the
income for the coming year.
The total amount paid for the audit this year was $1,725.00, of which
sum the Homes paid $1,475.00 and the balance of $250.00. has been paid
out of Grand Lodge funds. This is an increase of .$1,025.00 over the
previous year. A large share of this increase in cost has been due to
the need for a special audit at the time of the death of our Most Worshipful William P. Filmer, Grand Treasurer. This was essential as it was
important to know that all accounts were accurate and all securities on'
hand.
Iri addition to· this cost, there has been additional auditing to do, as
for inst_ance, the auditing of the War Fund. The costs of auditing also.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

have increased. In the opinion of the committee the amount paid for the
audit is not excessive.
Grand Lodge Week Activities
This committee has been in touch with the Committee on Grand
Lodge \Veek Activities and also witnessed the entertainment provided
on Tuesday evening at the "get together" evening. You that wre there
are fully able to judge of the excellencee of the evening's arran.gements
and the entertainment provided. The members of the Committee on
Finance are of the opinion that the evening was ably planned and the
entertainment of a pleasing character.
For a number of years your Committee on Finance has gone on record as favorable to the expenditure of a reasonable amount of Grand
Lodge funds for the purpose of providing some entertainment for those
·attending Grand Lodge. We are still of the same opinion.
The Committee ort Grand Lodge Week Activities advises the total
expense of activities will be less than $1,500.00. There was appropriated
for that purpose at last Grand Lodge approximately $2,000.0~. It is the
recommendation of the committee that all expenses actually mcurred be
paid and the customary policy of having the balance of the appropriation
revert to the treasury of Grand Lodge be again adhered to.
It must be recognized that there are many uncertainties as to what,
if ·anything can be done in the way of entertainment a year hence. We
are sure, however, that the Masons of California will und~rstand ~nd
if it appears undesirable to · do anything in the . way .of enterta1m_n~nt t ey
will be in entire accord. However, the committee 1s of the op1mon that
funds should be provided, so that if some entertainment seems de~irable
there will be funds on hand to pay for same . . It, therefore, submits the
following resolution and recommends its adop_tion:
Resolved, That the 'sum of $2,000.00, or as much thereof · as may. b.e
necessary to pay the expenses incurred by tl~e Grand Lodge vyeek Activities Committee, be allowed, and the same 1s hereby appropriated out of
the funds . of Grand Lodge, and that the same be allocated to the payment
of the expenses incurred. in the entertainment of officers and members
attending the next annual communication of Grand Lodge.

priation of $100.00 for this work for the coming year. Your ·committee
therefore offers the f6llowing resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $100.00 be approprfafed from the funds
of Grand Lodge to defray expenses which may be incurred by the <:omfuittee in compiling and preparing additional information gathered on the
history .o f Masonry in California.

714

I

'

Masonic History
You who were present in Grand Lodge yesterday afternoon and
heard the report of the Committee on Masonic His.tory, are alrea?y a~­
quainted with the amount of work which that committee h.as done m th~s
past year, in collecting the historical data of the fraternity ~nd. that ..1t
has performed this work for t?e mo_dest cos! of $85.00. Th.ts ts agam
in keepipg with t\1e record which this comm1tt~e has. made. m the past
and th.at is that much work has been accomplished m seekmg out · and
writing up 'the early history of Masonry in C~lifornia and that the cost
to Grand Lodge of this work has been modest mdeed.
The work done by this committee is, of necessity, pain~taking and
tedious. The w'orl!: of the committee, not . only this year but m the past,
indicates the great devotion this committee has to Masonry and to the
preserving and. compiling of our history of the past.
_
· .The History Committee is again to be commended ~or ~ts painstaking
efforts in . c~ref~lly .digging up the real facts on Masom~ history in Cali~
fornia. Your Committee on Finance, as has been prey10usly expressed,
is in favor of encouraging the work done by this committee .. The request
of the committee this year for the continuance of its work 1s even _more
modest than it has been in the past, in that it is only asking an appro-

715

Committee . on Correspondence
It has been the practice of this Grand Lodge for most of its existence
to have a Committee on Correspondence, the duties of the committee
being the reviewing of the proceedings of other Grand Lodges throughout the world and making a resume of the important activities and happenings in such jurisdictions and reporting the same to Grand Lodge,
which report has always been printed in the annual proceedings.
For this purpose the committee for a number of years appropriated
$500.00, coyering the · expenses o_f ,.compiling this report.
This past year, under the chairmanship of Worshipful Brother Henry
C. Clausen, this reviewing was partialed out among the membership of
the committee and the reviewing and compiling has largely been done
without expense to Grand Lodge. It was found necessary by the committee, however, to expend $100.00 in performing its work, which was the
total amount expended out of the $500.00 appropriated. For this work
and compiling, and it is very co"nsiderable and has been done with verly
little expense to Grand Lodge, the Committee on Finance wishes to express its gratitude.
·
This committee is of the opinion that the reviewing ·of annual pr:oceedings is a valuable work arid should be encouraged. After all, whatever Masonry is doing, wherever it may exist, is something in which we
are all interested. Such information is made available through the good
work of the Committee on Correspondence. The report of this committee
should have much more consideration than is ordinarily given it. We
commend to all, and particularly to the Masters of Lodges, the reading
of the report compiled by this Committee on Correspondence.
In discussing the work for the coming year with the present chairman
of the committee, he expresses the belief that $250.00 will fully · cover
all needs of the committee. This committee therefore offers the following
resolution and recommends its adoption: ,
Resolved, That the sum of $250.00· or as much thereof as may be
required, be appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, for the
purpose of defraying the expenses of the Committee on Correspondence,
said bills to be paid in the usual manner on approval .of the Committee
on Accounts.
Committee on Constitution Month Observance
There was appropriated for the use of this committee at the last
Grand Lodge the sum of $500.00. · It is to be noted that the committee
only expended $213.14 of this amount.
The committee has issued a number of bulletins and is doing most
effective work, with which this committee is thoroughly in accord and
believes it should be continued and expanded. We commend the committee
for the ·work done this past year and for the modest amount expended in
carrying on the duties of the committee.
It is not possible at this time to determine the amount that may be
required to carry on the work for the coming year. The best information
obtained, however, is that $500.00 will suffice. The C()mmittee therefore
is budgeting $500.00 for these expenditures, with the understanding that

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

whatever amount the committee expends, with the approval and under
the direction of the Grand Master, is to be audited in the usual manner
and paid out of Grand Lodge funds.

ft is to be observed and commended that the amount asked for this
year is $5,100 less than it was a year ago.
Your committee concurs · in the recommendation of the Board of
Control and offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $14, 100.00 be, and is hereby, appropriated
from the funds of Grand Lodge to be divided into donations to assist in
maintaining employment bureaus as above listed.

716

Report of _Committee on Social Security and Unemployment Tax .
There has been· called to the attention of this committee the action
taken by Grand Lodge on the report of the Committee on Social Security
and Unemployment Tax and the · approval of $1,000 for their needs. The
committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
'Resolved, That the sum of $1,000 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge for the use of the Committee on Social Security and Unemployment Tax.
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
Your committee has examined the report of the Board of Control on
reimbursement of Boards of Relief and Masonic Employment Service
and again commends the members of this Board for their thoroughness
and excellent supervision of the several Boards of Relief, and also adds
a word of commendation for the ceaseless efforts of the Boards of Relief
and Masonic Employment Service. It is most apparent that all are doing
excellent Masonic work.
The report of the Board of Control recommends ~eimbursement to
Boards of Relief as follows :
San Francisco ........................- ..........$236.06
It is more than worthy of remark that among all the Boards of
Relief in the State of California and the extensive relief which these boards
are doing, that only two items for reimbursement are being requested and
both these items are for outside jurisdictions, that cannot now refund
due to war conditions, the first being the Grand Lodge of Scotland for
$150.00 and the other the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands for $86.06.
It is the opinion of the Board of Control that both of these items
are collectible and instead of being carried as an expense to · Grand Lodge,
should be entered as "Accounts Due" and carried as an asset. This c0m~
mittee is in accord with the conclusions of the Board of Control and so
recommends.
It II1Ust be borne in mind, however, that the . San Francisco Board
of Relief is entitled to reimbursement and in order to be reimbursed the
amount must be appropriated from Grand Lodge funds. This committee
therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $236.06 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds pf Grand Lodge to r eimburse the San Francisco Board of R elief
as above set out.
Masonic Employment Service
The' Board of Control has recommended to this committee that
moneys should be appropriated for the Employment Bureaus, as follows :
San Francisco .....,...,....................$ 2,500.00
East Bay ........................................ 2,000.00
Los Angeles ................................... 4,000.00
San Diego .................,.................... 2,200.00
Long Beach .............~.................... 2,000.00
Sacramento ....................................
900.00
Fresno ........................................:...
500.00
Total ...,.......,................:.·····-·············$14,100.00
'

~

w

•

717

Board of Control
While this committee in its i:eport on Board of Relief and Masonic
Employment Service has made complimentary remarks on the work that
this board is doing and yet, in reporting a resolution for appropriating
the necessary expenses of the. board,· it wishes again to remark on the
:very. effici~nt work of the B'oard of Control and that it has for years and
ts still savmg Grand Lodge money. It also takes off the shoulders of the
Finance Committee a large responsibility and is doing the work even
more proficiently than this committee could ever hope to do.
Eaeh year the board has been to some expense. It appears to your
Committee on Finance that an appropriation of $300.00 will cover this
expense and therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
Resolved, That the. sum of $300.00 be appropriated from the funds
of Grand Lodge for the purpose of defraying the, expenses of carrying on
the work of the Board of Control.
Report of Grand Treasurer
For the first time in more than thirty years this report is being made
by other than the Most Worshipful vVi!liam P. Filmer, due to the death
of this Grand Mason last November.
·
It is a loss deeply felt by this committee, as of necessity this ~om­
mittee was often in consultation with Most Worshipful Brother Filmer
and greatly valued his advice, but most of all his friendship, as there had
always been an intimate friendship between him and members of the
committee. His loss to this Grand Lodge and to Masonry in general is
genuinely great. His life was truly a benediction to all who came in contact with him.
In the opinion of the committee, no worthier Mason could have been
selected to succeed Brother Filmer than our present Grand Treasurer
Most \ .Vorshipful Francis V. Keesling. He, too, is a man or sound judg~
ment, of absolutely irreproachable integrity and of very high purpose.
It is certain that Grand Lodge will be well served by him.
·
His report has been reviewed with more than usual interest by this
committee. It displays a complete grasp of the finances of Grand Lodge.
There has also come to the attention of this committee the survey
which our Grand Treasurer has made of the securities of Grand Lodge
and of the Endowment Fund. It displays much research and is sure
to be of inestimable benefit in the years to come and we commend the
Grand Treasurer for his thoughtfulness in pteparing this report and upon
its thoroughness.
This committee again wants to call to the attention of Grand Lodge
the great responsibility which r ests upon the Gra nd Treasurer. While
the careful handling of Grand Lodge fund s is imperative and yet, the
greatest responsibility is the investment of and . continued analysis of the
securities held, not only by Grand Lodge but also the . Endowment Fund
and various other agencies of Grand Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The report ·o f the auditors shows the accounts and securities ol the
Grand Treasurer are all in perfect order.

Your committee therefore is fully in accord with an allowance for
the purpose of paying for the necessary stenographic help. In discussing
with the incoming Grand Master his probable expenses for this purpose,
he indicated that $600.00 would not doubt cover his requirements. Your
committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its
-adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $600.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge, for the purpose of paying for the necessary stenographic
help.
Portraits of Preceding Past Grand Masters
It has been the thought of this committee for a number of years
that our gallery of portraits of those who have presided over the destinies
of Masonry, in this jurisdiction, should be complete. We are sure that all
who were familiar with our gallery of some years ago will admit that its
appea1:ance has been materially improved in the last few years. It is
again the thought of this committee that this improvement should be
continued and that the portraits of those Past Grand Masters which are
not yet in the gallery should be included.
It is to be noted, with regret, that there have been no additions to
our gallery of Past Grand Masters during the past year, which now makes
three, who have served this Grand Lodge in the Oriental East in recent
years, missing, among them being that of our present Governor Earl
Warren, who, as the craft will recall was Grand Master in 1935. It is
also noted, with regret, that the portraits of neither Past Grand Master
Wilson or Smith are in the gallery. This committee is sure this Grand
Lodge will want the portraits of these three illustrious Masons, who
have served this fraternity and society as a whole so well, included in
the gallery.
Your committee therefore repeats the request heretofore made, that
these three Most Worshipful Brothers have their portraits painted, the
bill for each to be in an amount not to exceed $250.00 and when presented
to the Grand Secretary, to be paid by him out of Grand Lodge funds and
the portraits to be hung in the gallery of our Past Grand Masters.

Traveling Expenses of Grand Master
Your committee has discussed with the incoming Grand Master his
plans for the year and particularly as to the extent of his visitations.
We have been greatly impressed with the apparent study he has
already made of his responsibilities and the very serious manner in which
he is approaching the duties of Grand Master. It is obvious that the
craft will be well served this coming year.
The incoming Grand Master expresses the intent of traveling throughout the jurisdiction as extensively as conditions will permit. · Your committee is in hearty accord with this intent. It has been the~ oft-repeated
statement of the committee that the visitations of the Grand Master are
of great benefit to the craft and should be encouraged. We are sure this
is doubly true this year.
It is, of course, difficult to determine just what the expenses of t}l.e
Grand .Master may be. Your committee is thoroughly of the opinion that
the Grand Master should not be circumscribed in any activities which he
considers of benefit' to the craft. Due to the increased cost of traveling
your committee is recommending an increase of the appropriation from
$4,500 to $5,'000, whh the understanding, however, that it is to be left to
his good judgment as to how much, if any, additional he considers it
necessary to expend and that should he be out more than the appropriation recommended such additional amount should be recommended for
allowance at the next session of Gra,nd Lodge. Your committee therefore
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
. " Resolved, That the sum of $5,000.00 be appropriated fro~ the . funds
of Grand Lodge for the purpose of defraying the traveling expenses of
the Grand Master.
Portrait of Grand Master
One of the pleasures this · committee has had each year has been
to request the retiring Grand Master to have his portrait painted so that
it may be included in the gallery of portraits of Past Grand Masters.
The pleasure of the commi'ttee is equally great fois year 'for they are
sure that this communication df Grand Lodge will wish to continue this
pleasing custom and have a portrait of our present retiring Grand Master
also included in this gallery. Your committee therefore recommends that
our retiring Grand Master, the Most Worshipful Leslie E. Wood, have
his portrait painted and present' the bill therefor, in an amount not to
exceed $250.00, to the Grand $ecretary; who is authorized to pay the same
and when the portrait is painted such portrait is to be hung in the gallery
of Past Grand Masters.
Allowance for Stenographic Service for Grand Master
During the past two Grand Lodge years the Grand Masters have
found it necessary to pay for the services of stenographic help. It has
always been the thought of this committee that the Grand Master, in
properly caring for the duties of his office, is called upon· for much sacrifice in the way of time and personal effort and neglect of his· own personal
business, and that to . this sacrifice should not be added the cost to him
personally for any of the needs of efficiently carrying on his activities as
Grand Master. Stenographic service is definitely one of these needs, as
the amount of correspondence required of the Grand Master is extensive.

719

Traveling Expenses of Grand Lecturer and Assistants
The Grand Lecturer, Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, has appeared
before this committee and has presented his plans on the work of himself and his four assistants, in carrying on the instructions in the esoteric
work. It is again apparent that the Grand Lecturer and his assistants
are fully alive to their duties.
It is the opinion of the Finance Committee that they should be encouraged in maintaining the degree work on a very high plane and that
whatever expenses may be incurred in traveling about the State, or in
holding schoo.ls of instruction, should be reimbursed to them. The Grand
Lecturer estimated that for that purpose this year he will need $1,600.00,
in which this committee concurs and therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption.
Resolved, That the sum of $1 ,600.00 be appropriated from the funds
of Grand Lodge to defray the expenses of the Grand . Lecturer and his
assistants.
Reimbursement of Expenses of Inspectors
Some years ago Grand Lodge changed the policy of reimbursement
of inspectors for expenses in attending to their .duties, by appropriating
the payment therefor from Grand Lodge funds. An estimate at that time
was made of the amount that would be required to care for the necessary

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

expenses of all inspectors in carrying out their duties of inspection.· The
estimate was in excess of $3,500.00.
Each year this committee has appropriated and .had budgeted an
amount approximating the total amount that would be paid out should
all inspectors ask for the reimbursement of the amounts to which they
would be entitled. It is noted and with high commendation to the spiti(
of the inspectors that, while this money has been available for these expenses only a small portion of it has ever been asked for. This important
body of Masonic workers is performing a real service for Masonry and
could, in complete propriety, ask for the return of expenses and yet most
of the Work is being done for the pure joy of the services rendered and
without the willingness to accept any return for any money out. This is
the spirit that makes Masonry what it is. This Grand Jurisdiction is indeed fortunate to have such a body of faithful workers . .
While it is the wish of this committee that all expenses incurted by
inspectors. should be reimbursed, and it is recognized 'that should all
ask for the amount to which they are justly entitled, it would require at
least $3,500 and yet, Jess than one-third of this amount has been asked
for. It is the belief of the committee, however, that the actual expenses
that will be asked for should be set up as nearly as possible and it is
therefore making an appropriation of $1,000 and setting this amount up in
the budget. However, the committee wishes it understood that should an
additional amount be required it recommends the payment thereof.
In the discussion with the Grand Lecturer it has appeared to all that·
$1,000 will be ample to cover all the reimbursements requested and this
committee is therefore budgeting that amount. It therefore offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption.
Resolved, That the sum of $1,000 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge for the purpose of defraying expenses of inspectors, .in
performing their official duties, such repayment .to be made upon bills
duly presented to the Grand Secretary which said bills shall first be approved by the Grand Lecturer.

Two years interest has accumulated on the loan, amounting to
$200. While the Lodge has not made a request for the waiving of this
interest, the inspector of the district, Brother Ralph Hine, has suggested
that it would be of material help to the . Lodge and to the interest .of
Masonry in that community were this interest to be forgiven. Past Grand
Master Wilson also makes such a recommendation.
The Lodge is small, having a membership of only 71. It has always
carried the banner of Masonry high and has never once indicated it would
not completely meet all its obligations, both in a fraternal and in a
monetary way.
It is the belief of this committee that the forgiving of the accumulated
interest of $200 would be lifting from the Lodge a burden that may be
substantially heavy. The committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the $2,500 paid by Carpinteria Lodge No. 444, on its
note be accepted as full settlement of the obligation of this Lodge to
Grand Lodge.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
You · are urged to read the printed report of Masonic Homes Endowment Board. Yott will derive much satisfaction ·from a careful and
thoughtful study of it. You will discover many reasons for greater pride
and belief in our great Order which makes such splendid provisions for
its dependents.
.
You will be interested in knowing:
1943
1942
479
Number of Lodges contributing....................................
443
82.44
Percentage of Lodges contributing................................
76.12
15,416
Individual contributors........................................................ 8,066
12.26
Percentage of danor!:........................:..................................
6.41
14
Testamentary gifts....................................................- ....:.....
16
Testamentary gifts ...........................:....................................$26,930.23 $ 79,508.47
91
Honorable mention Lodges............................................:...
24
Increase of fund assets .....................................:................$48,516.18 $122,904.85

z20

Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
For the third successive year your committee is able to report the
dues of every Lodge in the jurisdiction paid and that all returns are in
and in proper shape. This is a gratifying situation in which . to find the
condition of the Lodges and we compliment the Masters and Secretaries on
the work which they are doing in maintaining their Lodges in a healthy
financial condition as shown in the report and on keeping the administrative work up-to-date.
Carpinteria Lodge
At the annual session of Grand Lodge in 1941, Grand Lodge approvecl the action taken by the then Grand Master, Lloyd E. Wilson, in
granting to Carpinteria Lodge a loan of $2,500, for the purpose of enabling
the Lodge to repair damages done by earthquake to its temple. ';I'he
granting of this loan also permitted the Lodge to refinance the then
existing obligation against its temple and secure a generous discount of
the debt. For the loan a note of the Lodge was given, bearing four
per cent interest.
Since that time the Lodge has been able to meet the payments on
the loan and care for the expenses . of all its ordinary functions. Due
to this record the loaning institution has recently made the Temple Association an. advance sufficient to enable the Lodge to pay off its obligation
to Grand Lodge.

721

Obviously past and present members of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board have built wisely and well through the years. We are deeply
indebted to all of them, but particularly to Chairman (P. G. M.) Frank
Smith, who has worked so faithfully and intelligently in the_ presentation
and promotion of this worthy enterprise. Time, patience and perseverance
have been expended freely by him. Gratifying results have been attained.
This board has on hand an unexpended sum of $2,932.37 from 19421943 budget.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $3,100.00 be appropriated from the General Funds of Grand Lodge for the use of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board during this fiscal Masonic year, and that the $2,932.37 balance
be retained for the same purpose.
Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18, Situated at Downieville
In its report last year this committee called attention to the $900
which had been advanced to the above Lodge by Grand Master Fraser
in 1938, the occasion of the contribution being for the rehabilitation of
the temple owned by the Lodge, necessitated by fiobd damage.
The Lodge at that time was not in financial condition to attempt
this necessary repair. Subsequently, the Lodge presented a claim against

722

1

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the State for damage and received from the State $533. Inquiry was
made as to whether it was necessary to return the amount to Gt:a nd Lodge,
or was it J?OSsible to retain it, for the purpose of completing the necessa.ry
repairs to' its ' temple. This inquiry was referred last year by Grand
Master Smith ·· to" the Lodge Financing Committee and by it to this
committee.
. · There has been some correspondence between 'this· conirriittee and
the Lodge and also the inspector of the district, Brother Joubert, and
during this session the representative of the Lodge called and had a discussion with the committee. It appears to the committee that the
Lodge needs the sum in question for the purpose of completing the repair of its temple. This committee also believes that the Lodge is too
small and the prospects of the future are not sufficiently bright to charge
this sum against the Lodge as a loan.. The committee . therefore ·recommends that the Lodge not be required to return any part ·of this sum,
either in cash or as a loan, and offers the following resolution and recommends its adopfion.
Resolved, That Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18 be permitted to retain
all funds recovered from the State, due to damage to its temple, as a
donation from this .Grand Lodge.
·
Sotoyoirie Lodge No." 123, Situated at Healdsburg
There has been referred to this committee that portion of the Grand
Master's address referring to the above Lodge. Your Committee on
Finance cominen<;l!j the Grand Master for the prompt and careful way in
. which the needs , i?f this Lodge for relief were handled and fully_ apprg,ves
the .action take~
·
· ·' ·'
··,, ·.,,· ·. ,.
·'.
·.
It is appare~t that th.is ·Lodge has, U:rit!i' th~· death of. Mrs. Bush~ a .. continuing obligation and that the Lodge is not ii.ow and' probably. will . not
be in such financial condition that it can meet this obligation, and that
if the temple is to be preserved for the use of the Lodge and . the. good
faith of the Masons in Healdsburg sustained, it ,_.will be necessary, for
Grand Lodge to continue assistance to Sotoyome'.Lodge. The· committee
therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That there be paid from the funds of Grand L~dg'~ ·monthly
to Sotoyome Lodge, a sum not to exceed $150 during the life~time of
Mrs. Bush, with the understanding that such sum shall be used to 'satisfy
its obligation to Mrs. Bush and that all sums advanced, including .· that
already advanced by direction of the Grand Master, shall be consjdered
as a loan to Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 and to be repaid by such Lodge
a t a sum not less than $50 per -month, until the full ·a mount advanced
shall have been repaid, together with interest at three per cent per annum.
Salaries
Your commit.tee .has given its usual careful consideration to the
salaries of your Grand Lodge officers. Each angle of this problem has
been given full consideration. It is the opinion of the committee that the
salaries for the coming year should be fixed as follows :
Grand Secretary ..........................$7,200.00
Assistant Grand Secretary .......... 4,200.00
Grand Lecturer ............................ 600.00
For a number of years it ha~ _be.e n the arrangement between this
committee and the Trustees of . the Masonic Homes that the salaries of
the Grand Secretary and Assistant Grarid Secreta,6' be paid from Grand
Lodge funds and that the Homes 'reimburse Grand Lodge in the amount

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA

723

of $1,800.00 per annum for the work done :by these two Grand Officers
for· the H®les. The work being done for the Homes by the Grand
Secretary's -,office ··is conside.able and this committee again recommends
· that the same amount, that is, $1,800.00 be paid by the Homes as a
reimbursement for this work done for them.
This." comn;iittee 'further recommends that the traveling expenses incurred by · Grand Lodge Officers or members of Grand Lodge, who may
be travding by authority of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore
from · ·the funds of Grand Lodge.
The above recoi:imendat!on on salaries increases the annual salary of:
Grand Secretary .........•..................$1,200.00
Assistant Grand Secretary .......... 600.00
These recommendations of incr.e ase .are made subject to approval
being obta,iIJfid from' the. proper governmental authority, if necessary.
Reimbursement of War Service Funds
The Most Worship£;) Francis V. Keesling, Grand Treasurer, has
called to the attention of this committee ,the an101.\nt of expenditures from
the funds contributed by, the membership of . this jurisdiction for care
and relief occasioned by. th~- present terrible catastrophe of war.
It would seem that any expenditure of these funds outside of a strict ·
interpretation of the purposes for which contributed, no matter how ~ell
meaning and commendable the expenditures may have been, is not in
accordance with the representations under which the contributions were
made and therefore, in justice to all and particularly to those contributing,
any such expenditu'res should be restored to the War Relief Fund. The
total sum reported to this committee so expended is $10,393.93.
It should be borne in mind that this is the total expenditure from
this fund for the two years of its operation." This c.o mmittee therefore
offers the · following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $10,393.93 be appropriated from the funds
of this Grand Lodge and be credited to the War Relief Fund.
Reimbursement of War Service Funds
There has come to the attention of this committee the action taken
by Grand Lodge yesterday on the recomine~dation of the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes, that the amount expended from the above
fund in the way of donations to the Red Cross, U . S. 0. and Chinese
Relief in the sum of $10,000 should be reimbursed to the fund from the
funds of this Grand Lodge. Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:.
Resolved, That the sum of $10,000 be appropriated from the funds of
this Grand Lodge and be credited to the War R elief Fund.
Grand Master's Emergency War Fund
An extensive discussion has been held by the incoming Grand Master
with this committee over his needs for funds to carry on various war
needs.
.·
As this Grand Lodge has already been advised, this emergency has
for the past two years · been paid out of the War Relief Fund. Due, however, to the decision of Grand Lodge that such e.xpenditures are not proper
from this fund, an · appropriation will have to be made otherwise for
caring for these emergencies. It, of course, is imp9ssible for either the
Grand Master or this committee to determine what such requirements
may be.
r
•·

724

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The incoming Grand Master has suggested· and this committee has
concurred in the suggestion that, a fund of $10;000 be budgeted. This
committee, however, feels that whatever amount, in the judgment of the
Grand Master, should be expended for this purpose should be made available. Therefore, while it is recommending an appropriation of $10,000
for this purpose, it is of the opinion that it is to be understood that if
the Grand Master finds it necessary to employ additional funds for properly carrying on the emergency in which we find ourselves, that such
expenditures should be approved. your committee. therefore offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption:
.
Resolved, That the sum of $10,000 be appropria.t ed from this fund,
to be utilized by the Grand Master in properly caring ,for emergency war
needs.
'·
Committee on Public Schools Week
This committee wishes to offer an apology to the above committee,
and particularly to its chairman, Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams,
in that no menti.on has been made in its report of the unusually able work
done by the committee and that no appropriation has been made to care
for the expenses of the committee.
This has been a function of Grand Lodge for many yea'rs. The work
of this committee has, in the opinion of the Finance Committee, been
one of the' outstanding accomplishments of Grand Lodge. The c_e aseless
efforts of its chairman and of the membership of the committee are entitled to the sincere appreciation of every Mason in this jurisdiction. We
are sure that it is the· wish of Grand Lodge to have these activities · continued and for that purpose this committee is appropriating the same
amount as they did ·1ast year. It therefore offers the following resolution
and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $600.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge to defray the expenses of the Committee on Public Schools
Week.
Expenses of Grand Tiler and Grand Organist
Each year there .has been allowed a sum to cover the expenses of
the Grand Tiler and Grand Organist, in the performance of their dutir's ·
during Grand Lodge session and for this purpose each year there has
been granted $300.00, to be paid to:
Grand Tiler ......~ ...............................$200.00
Gra.nd Organist ...:..,.:·······.................. 100.00
This committee is again recommending such an a.ppropriation and
offers the following resolution, recommending its adoption:
Resolved, That the . sum. of $300.00 be appropriated for the expenses
of the above named.
Pay -of Members
Your Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report indicating ~hat the amount required to pay the traveling .expens.e s of officers
and members attending the session of Grand Lodge .ainouti.ts to the sum
of $16,645.52, and we therefore offer the following resolutiOn and recommend that it b~ adopted:
Resolved, That the sum . of $16,645.52 be appropriated to pay the
traveling expenses of officers and .members attending this session.

As you have already been informed by the report of the trustees, the
Masonic Clubhouse at Los Angeles has been rented to the University
and is being used as a mess hall for cadets and inasmuch as the rentals
received will probably exceed the expenses of' the Club for the ensuing.
year, the trustees feel they .can operate very nicely without an appropriation
of funds from Grand Lodge · this year. They are, however, asking Grand
Lodge to set aside the sum of $4,403.01 for their use should the necessity
arise. This sum represents the difference between, the appropriation of
$7,500.00 made last year and the unexpended balance of this amount at
the time the Clubhouse was taken over by the University, and will only be
used by the trustees if absolutely necessary.
The Clubhouse at Berkeley will need its customary appropriation of
$7,500.00 for ordinary operating expenses and to continue to build up Its
reserve fund for depreciation, but in addition thereto the Board of Trustees
has convinced your. Committee on Finance that it should have an additional fund up to $1,500.00 to permit a continuance of its club activities
and courtesies to our affiliates now in the servi<;es and enrolled at the
University.
In view of the foregoing, your Committee on Finance offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That Grand Lodge sets aside in an appropriate reserve
account the sum of $4,403.01 as a Contingent Fund for the use of the
Masonic Clubhouse at Los Angeles to be used by the trustees only as
the necessity may arise and at the end of the ensuing Masonic year any
balance remaining therein be then transferred back to the General Fund
of Grand Lodge, and further that the sum of $7,500.00 be paid to the
trustees of the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley for its regular operating
expenses and Depreciation Reserve Fund and in addition to allow the·
trustees· of the Berkeley Clubhouse the sum of $1,500.00 to enable them
to enlarge the program at the Clubhouse to take care of the entertainment
of Masonic affiliates now in the services and enrolled at the University.

University of California Clubhouses
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the reports 'of the Trustees
of the Masoriic Clubhouses, and also the reports of the accountants engaged to audit the books and records maintained at these institutions.

725

Masonic Homes
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed that portion of the report
of the Board of Trustees of Ma~onic Homes which relates to finances.
It has also scrutinized the report of the accountants engaged to examine the books and ·records of the Masonic Homes for the fiscal year
ended July 31, 1943.
·
Your Committee on Finances are in accord with the trustees in their
action of setting up a reserve of $100,000.00 to be used for post-war . rehabilitation of the buildings.
It is gratifying to note also that the Homes have none but minor
liabilities and undoubtedly because of this fact and the surplus cash remaining after provision of rehabilitation of the buildings, the Board of
Trustees have voluntarily recommended that the per capita assessment
for the support of the Homes be reduced for the ensuing year from forty
cents ( 40c) to twenty cents (20c)~ .
Your Committee on Finance therefore offers the following resolution
and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That the special per capita tax for the maintenance of the
Masonic Homes be set at twenty cents (20c).
Grand Secretary's Report
You have read the Grand Secretary's annual repo'rt. It contains information of importance,' indicatit.;g a substantial gain" in members. and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO:RNIA

increasing activities in the Lodges of this jurisdiction. Study the comparisons on page 526. · ·
Naturally so many gains, which, added to the extra work occasioned
by the war, mean increased duties and responsibilities for the Grand
Secretary and his efficient corps of assistants. Office rec9rds and reports
are up to date, and this year an audit has been made of the 1943 annual
returns (see Supplemental Audit of 1943 Annual Returns), as well as
the regular audit report by the public accountants.
Our compliments are extended to our able Grand Secretary and his
staff for the thoroughly capable manner in which the affairs of his imJ?Ortant office are conducted.

It should be borne in mind that the budget which is being set up is
for the current fiscal year and that the money is on hand to care for
the appropriations now being made and the expenses to be incurred for
the operation of affairs in Masonry in this jurisdiction. It should also
be borne in mind that the per capita levy is for the purpose of raising
funds for next fiscal year's operations and further, that many imponderable conditio~s and expenses may arise and therefore the estimated
deficit which the budget shows may be less than the am~unt given.
Your are already acquainted with the recommendation of the Trustees
of _the Homes, that instead of the per capita levy of forty (40c) cents,
which has been asked for several preceding years it is now reduced to
twenty (20c) cents as has been stated in the report 'which this committee
already made on the Homes. This committee accepts the recommendation
of the Board of Trustee~.
•
The need which has arisen to appropriate funds for the restoration
of expenditures from the War Relief Fund of $20,393.93 has, as will be
noted from the budget which will follow, required the committee to show
a deficit for this coming year. This deficit will of necessity have to be taken
from the previous surpluses built up in Grand 1Lodge. It might be called
to the attention of the members of Grand Lodge that this is one of the
purposes for a surplus.
·
The decision also that the expense of war service being performed
by Grand Lodge is not properly chargeable to the War Relief Fund,
has necessitated an aditional contribution of $10,000.00 to be used by the
Grand Master for that purpose and is also an additional drain upon the
reserve funds of Grand Lodge.
It is the opinion ot' the Finance Committee that an additional per
capita levy should be made to reimburse the reserve fund of Grand Lodge,
for the amount now being· appropriated from this reserve. In order to
provide for this return of expended surplus and for the per ·capita levy of
twenty (20c) cents, for the maintenance of the Homes, your committee
finds it necessary to ask for a per capita levy in addition to the constitutional requirements of seventy-five (75c) cents. While this committee is
reluctant to ··recommend any additional per capita levy, it is consoled 'by
the fact that the Lodges are now prospering and therefore the increase in
levy will probably not prove burdensome. It also means that by restoring
the reserves in times like the present, it will probably prevent the necesc
sity of increasing the per capita levy at a time when the Lodges may be
much less able to stand the increase.
It is worthy of comment that during the tough times of ten y~a.rs
ago the total per capita levy was $1.8~.
The levy for the corning year will be made up as follows:

726

Masonic Information
Your Committee on Finance has analyzed the report .of the Committee
on Masonic Information and has concluded that this committee is engaged
in important Masonic work and that the appropriation of last year to
carry on this work has been spent to good advantage and that this work
should be continued.
·
Your Committee on Finance is of the opinion that the quiz programs
prepared by this committee have proven very beneficial to the Lodges
of this jurisdiction by bringing before the brethren a program that is
not only entertaining, but also edur.ationat
Your committee is also of the opinion that the series of pamphlets
prepared by this comrriittee for the coaches' use, in instructing candidates,
have also proven their worth. For how well it is known the barrage of
questions new candidates have in mind and how well we know that upon
our coaches are these questions asked.'
We therefore submit the followirig resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $750.00 be appropriated for the use of this
committee, that they may be able to continue this splendid work.
Grand Lodge Per Capita
The constitution provides for the. levying of a per capitil of fifty
(50c) cents, to pay for the expenses of Grand Lodge and its various
activities. In additiori ·to the St;1m provided for by this J?er capita levy,
there is additional revenue accruing to Grand Lodge from degrees conferred and income on investments and from some other sources of approximately $20,000.00. '
There is also some other revenue derived from the sale of supplies and
from surety bonds covering Lodge officers. This revenue, however, cannot be taken into consideration in the budget because it is offset by
corresponding items of disbursements, which are also eliminated from
the budget. It also should be borne in mind that there are always expenses which cannot be estimated-this ·is particularly true this year due
to war conditions and the probability that further emergencies will arise.
It is pleasing to note that, despite the emergencies and uncertain
conditions under which Grand Lodge operated this ·past year, the · budget
which was set up a year ago has been as closely followed as -conditions
would permit and that the year ended with a surplus of ineome over
expenses-this surplus is · being added to the general -reserve-. ·of Grand
Lodge.
·
As usual the committee has prepared a· budget which will be submitted illlµiesliately fo116wing this portion of . the committee's report.
The budget s°ets up the estimated income and expenses for the coming year;

.

727

Grand Lodge constitutional requirement... ....... :.. ;..:.....$ .50
Masonic Homes constitutional requirement ..:c•••••••••••:.; .50
Masonic Homes maintenance..~ .................c.~ ........:.:••..•...:,· .20
Grand Lodge activities and contingencies...................... .55
· .T otal ..·.................:.....••.....· ·········'····'·-····································--$1.75
The necessary resolution providing for the levy of twenty (20c) cents
per capita .fo_r the Homes has already been presented and passed by
Grand Lodge:· Your committee therefore offers the following resolution
and recommends· its adoption :
Resolved/ That a per capita of fifty-five (55c) cents be levied in order
to <;i!-.r e for Grand .Lodge expenses and contingencies.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Budget
Income
Appropriations
Activities Committee ..........$ 2,000.00 . Dues from Lodges, Etc. ....$101,182.00 ,
Annual Communication ...... 1,500.00 Interest and Dividends ...... 15,000.00
200.00 Loan's Repaid ........................ 2,500.00
Audit ····························'-·······
300.00
Board of Control ................
125.00 Total ··········-···········,················$118,682.00
Bonds and Insurance ..........
500.00
Constitution Month ·········-···
250.00
Correspondence Committee
Employment Bureaus ......... . 14,100.00
Endowment Board .............. 3,100.00
600.00
Grand Lecturer Salary ......
500.00
Lodge Officers Exp.
600.00
Master, Misc. Exp.
300.00
Master, Present ......
Master Travel Exp. 5,000.00
300.00
Organist, Gr'd Tiler
600.00
Treasurer Expense
100.00
History Committee ........... .
750.00
Information Committee ......
Inspectors Aprons and
750.00
Stationery ······-·········:........
Inspectors Expense .............. 1,000.00
250.00
Office Equipment ···········"....
650.00
Supplies, Sundries ..
P . G. M . Portraits ............ 1,000.00
Pay of Members ................ 16,645.00
Postage and Express .......... 1,250.00
Printing ····'········- ··················· 7,500.00
600.00
Public Schools Week ..........
Relief by Grand Lodge ...... 4,500.00
"
Master ...... 2,000.00
Relief Boards,
236.00
. Reimbursements ................
Rent .......................................... 4,500.00
Ritual Committee Expense 1,600.00
Salaries ·························-········· 13,980.00
500.00
Taxes, Social Security ......
"
Unemployment ........ . 1,200.00
Telephone and Telegraph .. . 750.00
University Club Houses .... 13,403.00
500.00
Veteran Buttons ..................
Contingenf Expenses .......... 6,500.00
Legal Expense ...................... 1,000.00
Emergency War Fund ........ 10,000.00 Estimated Expenditure ........$141,532.93
Refund to War ReJjef Fund 20,393.93 Estimated Income ................ 118,682..00

· Past Grand Master Crites, Chairman of the Finance Committee, moved the adoption of the entire repo.r t and the motion,
duly seconded was carried.

728

Total ·-········....."...:....................$141;532.93 E~cess Exp. over Income....$ 22,850.93
Respectfully and fraternally submitted,

s.

ARTHl./R
CRITES,
FRANK
R U PPEL,
RAYMOND W. BLOSSER,
ROLLIE
MILLER,
F. WESLEY DAVIES,
FRANK
BuEHN,

c.
w.
E.

Committee on Finance.

729

JURISPRUDENCE COMMITTEE REPORT
Past Grand Master Well er, chairman, reported for the J urisprudence Committee on the legislation necessary to notify
all members of each Lodge of the applications for degrees and
affiliations and stated that so many provisions of the law would
be effected that it was impracticable to attempt to present legislation at this communication and asked that the matter be referred to the Jurisprudence Committee to present legislation at
the next Annual Communication. The request was appr~ved.
At 4 :45 p. m. Grand Lodge called off until 10 :00 o'clock
Friday morning.

730

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jn ~ranb 1Lobgt
MORNING SESSION
Friday, October 15, 1943.
Grand Lodge called on at 10 :00 a. m., the Grand Master
presiding.
.
The V. Rev. Grand Chaplain delivered the Invocation and
the Minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursda)'.',
October 14, 1943, were read by the Grand Se.cretary and approved by Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master called upon M. W. Asa H. Hankerson,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington, who
e~pressed his appreciation for the many cou~tesies extended to
him during the week and brought the greetmgs of the Grand
Lodge of Vil ashington.
The Grand Secretary called the attention of Grand Lodge
to the fact that Liberty Lodge No. 299 at Santa Clara had sold
among their members $31,600.00 of War Bonds and Stamps during the recent campaign.
The hour ·havina arrived for the annual election of officers
the Grand Secret"ary~at the direction of th.e G.rand Mast~r, read
Sections 14 to 19, inclusive, of the Constitution govermng the
annual election.
The Grand Master appointed the following brethren to
serve as tellers :
Roy C. Bryan
Wm. L. Hovis
Sa~uel E. Dollar
Herbert R. Hargrave
Carl
F. Peters
Edward H. Siems
Mark T. Andrews
Owen L. Craghead
Alden J. Fulkerson
Bert T. Baker
Robert F. Shippee
ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS

The annual election of officers was held, with the following
results:
The R. ·. \V. ·. Claude H. Morrison, San Diego Lodge No.
35 was elected Grand Master.
' The R.". \V:. Gilbert C. DeForest, Reading Lodge No. 254,
was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.". Vil:. Lawrence C. Kelley, Pentalpha Lodge No.
202 was elected Senior Grand Warden.
'The W.". Arthur W. Brouillet, Park Lodge No. 449, was
elected Junior Grand Warden.

731

The M.". W.". Francis V. Keesling, P"ast Grand Master,
California Lodge No. 1, was elected Grand Treasurer.
The M:. '0/:. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge No. 630, was reelected Grand Secretary.
The V.". VV.". Chester H. Warlow, Fresno Lodge No. 247,
was reelected Grand Lecturer.
·
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the names of the
appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Dr. George A. Warmer, Bakersfield Lodge
No. 224.
Grand Orator, \Vm. J. Courtiour, Seaside Lodge No. 504.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco Lodge No. 360.
·
Grand Marshal, Arch Balchin, Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331.
Grand Standard Bearer, Alex D. Potts, le Progres de
l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371.
Grand Sword Bearer, Vlilliam Bromley, Abell Lodge No.
146.

Grand Bible Bearer, George Frampton, Artesia Lodge No.
377.
Senior Grand Deacon, Emil L. Schellenberg, Silver Gate
Lodge No. 296.
Junior Grand Deacon, ·Theodore M. Cole, Redwood City
Lodge No. 168.
Senior Grand Steward, Robert E. Harris, Ontario Lodge
No. 301.
Junior Grand Steward, Leon Dunning, Corcoran Lodge
No. 490.
Grand Pursuivant, Christian A. S. Kemper, Consuelo Lodge
No. 325.
Grand Organist, Charles. E. Anderson, Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Ralph K. Marshall, Occidental Lodge No. 22.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of James
B. Gist to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes of California, for a term of four years, vice self, term
expired.
The M.". \V.". Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Master, was appointed Master of Ceremonies and the officers elected and appointed were installed by the retiring Grand Master in due and
ancient form.
The newly-installed Grand Master then invested his predecessor with a Past Grand Master's lapel button, in which was
set a beautiful diamond.
The Chas. Albert Adams insignia was transferred from the
retiring to the incumbent Grand Master and the other chair
officers exchanged the Arthur S. Crites fapel pins.

732

M.:.. W. ·. Frank M. Smith, Past Grand Master, invested the
retiring Grand Master with the apron of a Past Grand Master.
M. ·. W. ·. Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master, on behalf
of the members of Grand Lodge, presented a gift to Mrs. Leslie
E. Wood and it was accepted by the retiring Grand Master in
her behalf.
·
Alden J. Fulkerson, Master of San Diego Lodge No. 35,
of which the neVo{ly-installed Grand Master is a member, presented to the Grand Master on behalf of the members of that
Lodge, a very beautiful gavel.
. At 1 :45 p. m., all business being completed, Grand Lodge
was closed in Ample Form.
CLAUDE H. MORRISON,
·
Grand Master.
LLOYD E. WILSON,
Grand Secretary~

SPECIAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS

Consolidated General Statement

Grand Lodge Funds:
Auditor's· Report
Grand Secretary's Accounts
Supplemental Audit
Grand Treasurer's Accounts

Masonic Homes:
Auditor's Report
Statements of Funds and Properties
~tatements of Revenues and Expense
Trust and Annuity Funds
Total Funds

Masonic Homes Endowment Fund:
Auditor's Report
Grand Treasurer's Report
Summary Statement or Assets
Securities
Income and Capital Accounts

Grand Lodge 1943-1944
Per Capita Tax
. Budget

734

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CONSOLIDATED CASH STATEMENT

AUGUST 1, 1942 -

735

JULY 31, 1943

GRAND LODGE
MASONIC HOMES

MASONIC HOMES TRUST FUNDS
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUNDS

The Grand Treasurer, by virtue of office and Constitutional provision, is custodian of the funds here reported under that title.

The operating funds here reported are under the control of the Grand Master
and the Grand Secretary; and, of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes.

Grand
Exhibits referred to are in Auditors Grand Lodge Report Cash Balance
August 1, 1942

General Fund .............:.......,..:...............................
(Exhibit A)

War Relief Fund .......................;.................. ,.......
(Exhibit D)

Receipts

Total

Disbursements

Cash Balance
July 31, 1943

$ 33,651.17

$118,91S.14

$152,566.31

$109,842.57

$ 42,723.74

61,900.99

40,112.65

102,013.64·

22,075.34

.79,~.38.30

1,486.70

5,579.29

7,065.99

.........................

7,065.99

$ 97,038.86

$164,607.08

$261,645.94

$131,917.91

$129,728.03

$124,147.22

Philippine Islands Dues Trust Fund..............
(Exhibit D)

Grand Lodge Totals ...............................

Masonic
Cash Balance
Exhibits referred to are in Auditor• Masonic Homes Bleport
August 1, 1942

General Fund ......:.....:...........................................
(Exhibit A)

Trust Furids .. ,.....................................................:.

Custody of
Grand Treasurer

Operating

$ 37,142.93 · $ 5,580.81
79,938.30
..................
7,065.99
.. ...................
$

5,580.81

Homes

Receipts

Total

· Disbursements

Cash Balance
July 31, 1943

$ 35,517.67

$395,390.12

$430,907.79

Custody of
Grand Treasurer

$275,295.12

Operating

$155,612.67

$131,936.26

$ 23,676.41

40,978.21

20,837.48

61,815.69

23,240.01

38,575.68

~7,621.40

954.28

$ 76,495.88

$416,227.60

$492,723.48

$298,535.13

$194,188.35

$169,577.66

$ 24,630.69

(Exhibit B-Schedules B·2-B·l0, Inc\ualve)

Masonic Homes Total... .........................

Lodge

Masonic Homes

Endowment Fund

Exhibits referred to are in Auditors Masonic Homes
Endowment Fund Report

Cash Balance
August 1, 1942

Receipts

Total

Disbursements

Cash Balance
July 31, 1943

Endowment Fund ................................................

$ 31,020.81

$123,798.21'

$154,819.06

Custody of
Grand Treasurer

$ 75,000.00

$ 79,819.06

$ 79,819.06

........................

. 31,020.81

123,798.2~

154,819.06

75,<XX>.OO

79,819.06

79,819.06

........................

Consolidated Cash Totals ....................... $204,555.55

$704,632.~

$909,188.48

$505,453.04

$403,735.44

$373,523.94

$ 30,211.50

(Exhibit A)

Endowment Total... ... ~ ..................... ,:... ;..

Consolidated Investment
In Custody of Grand Treasu•
Building and
Loan ,
Bonds
Stocks
CertificatA
Grand Lodge .......................................... $ 159,115.57 $413,540.63 ........................._
(Exhibit ~)

Masonic Homes .....................................

2,067.50

10,119.50 $

Statement-July 31, 1943
Notes and
Contracts
Receivable

308,629.69

(Exhibit B-Schedules B·2-B·9, Inclusive)

Masonic Homes Endowment Fund.. 1,345,879.95

48,440.00
19,023.75

Stocks

........................

In Custody of Grand Secretary
Notes and
Insurance
Contracts
Policies
Receivable

.....................

............. . . ..

Real Estate
........ ...............

$ 21,634.93

$5,207.07

$

........ ..............

.........................

5,480.00

2,762.9(1

$ 11,868.20

··············-

9,145.97

2,016.4~

3,799.47

15.00

20.00

.........................

145.00

4,779.3'

$ 24,813.64

$113.08

$ 21,654.93

$5,207.07

$ 10,685.00

(Exhibit B-Schedule B·l)

Masonic Homes Trust Funds............

Operating

$ 98.08

. (Exhibit A-Schedule B-1)

Totals ........................................... $1,815,692.71 $491,123.88 $

5,060.00

736

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AUDITOR'S REPORT
Grand Lodge Report
August 31, 1943.
Gentlemen:
We have audited the accounts 'and records of the Grand Lodge F. &
A. M. of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1943, and submit
herewith the following statements:

Exhibit A:

Grand Lodge Funds
Statement of all Grand Lodge cash received and disbursed
by the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1943.

Grand Secretary's Accounts
Resume of cash received and disbursed August l, 1942, to
July 31,' 1943.
Exhibit C-1: Statement of Grand Lodge per capita dues collected from
1942 annual returns.
Exhibit C-2: Statement of Masonic Homes per capita dues and $25 contributions collected during the year 1942-43.
Exhibit B:

· Grand Treasurer's Accounts
War relief and Philippine dues funds. Statement of cash
receipts and disbursements August 1, 1942, to July 31, 1943.
Exhibit E: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements August 1, 1942,
to July 31, 1943.
Exhibit F: Statement of assets and capital account as at July 31, 1943.
Exhibit G: List of investments, as at July 31, 1943.
Exhibit D:

Comments
As shown in the capital account of Exhibit F, the revenue from per
capita dues and other sources exceeded the total of expenses and appropriations by $9,259.31.
All per capita dues, as .reported on the 1942 annual returns from constituent Lodges, have been paid in full. Our Exhibits C-1 and C-2 show
proof of the revenue due from the Lodges in accordance with their 1942
annual returns and the $25.00 Homes Contribution reports for the first
three quarters of the fiscal year 1942-43. The total revenue due, as shown,
agrees with the total cash received from the Lodges by the Grand
Secretary.
Cash receipts were accounted for and traced to the proper depositaries.
Disbursements were made by checks and supported by properly approved
vouchers. · All bank balances were verified by correspondence with the
depositaries. Certified lists of the stocks and bonds were received from the
Anglo California National Bank which holds the securities for' safe
keeping. Securities as recorded in the books of account were verified to
these lists.
No payment of principal or interest has been received from Carpinteria
Lod~~ No. 444 on their loan of $2,500.00.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

737

A detailed statement of the cash received and disbursed during the past
year for the account of the War Relief Fund is shown on our Exhibit D.
The total donations received are as follows:
"
January 1, 1942, to July 31, 1942..................$66,742.45
August 1, 1942, to July 31, 1943...................... 40,112.65
Total received to July 31, 1943...................... $106,855.10
Under -the authorization of the Grand Master, we made an interim
audit as of December 31, 1942, of the accounts and records of the Grand
Lodge, the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund and the Masonic Homes of
Calif?rnia. The ma.i n purpose of this audit .wa_s to give to the newly
appomted Grand Treasurer a certified report of the bank accounts securities and .other assets for which he was to assume responsibility/ and, to
ass~re him of the correctness . of the records . of his office. During.· this
audit we test checked the individual 1942 annual returns from constituent
Lodges and personally inspected the securities held either' by the bank
or at the office of the Grand Secretary.
We certify that, in our opinion, the attached statements set forth the
financial condition of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California as at
July 31, 1943, and the result of its operations for the fiscal year.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB
Certified Public Accounts,
'
By FLOYD T. WEBB,

GRAND SECRETARY'S ACCOUNTS
Exhibit A
GRAND LODGE FUNDS
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
GENERAL FUND
Cash balance, August 1, l942..........,......... ,..... ;...............
Cash ,.eceived by c,.and Sec,.etO,.jl-

$ 33,651.17

Dues from Lodges, 1942 (Exhibit C-1) ................- ....$ 91,129.15
Dispensations ··---··········--··--···----····--···--········-····--"··.··--··'w··
Sales of supplies........................................................ ~,, .._ •.;.
Collections for Lodge officers' surety bonds..............
Collection for constituent Lodge..................................

180.00
9,609.93
1,717.43
141.04

Total revenue receipts ............................. ,..............$102,777.55
Dispensation to Fortitude U. D., .Chungking, China..
75.00
Withholding tax deducted from July salaries............
173.10
From Grand Lodge of Iowa for War Relief of
Iowa members .......................................;..- ....................
500.00
Total cash received by Grand Secretary..........

$103,525.65

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

738

739

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Cash recei•ved by Grand Treasurer511.74
B ank interest......•..•~·-······························--: .••.........:•..,.-...:.$
5,813.44
Bond interest.......................................... :........ :.. ,....,........... .
Dividends ............................................................................ 8,732.75

-----

·Total revenue receipts ........................................... 15,057.93
331.56
Amortization of bond premiums ...............,...··' ············-·

----- $ 15,389.49

Total cash received direct by Gra~d Treasurer

Total cash to account for..................................

$152,566.31

Cash disbursed through Grand Secretary's officeGrand Secretary's office expense:
Salaries ·······-·····-·----··----·-··············-··········$13,741.50
Less reimbursed by Masonic
Homes ···-····-·······--·-···-·······--·-······· 1,800.00
Rent (11 months) .................... :.............
Postage and express ..............................
Telephone and telegraph ....................... .
Supplies and sundry expe~se ...............

$ 11,941.50
4,125.00
1,160.28
693.61
521.95

$ 18,442.34
6,032.70
600.00

Printing .........................................................,,
Salary-Grand Lecturer ...............................
Traveling expenseGrand Lecturer and Assistants ..........
Supplies for resale ........................................
Relief-Order of the Grand Master ....... .
Reimbursing Masonic Homes for outside relief for those not eligible
for admittance .....,...........,............... .
Expenses:
Board of Control... .................................
Annual communications ........................
Public Schools Week. ........•............ ,.....
Constitution month observance ......... .
Traveling expense, inspectors ........... .
Inspectors' stationery ........................... .
Fifty-year buttons ..................................
Auditing ....................................................
Present for Grand Master ................... .
Expense, Granc:I Treasurer ..................
Stenographic service for
Grand· Master ..................................
Traveling expense,
Grand Lodge officers ...................... ·
Expense of Grand Secretary attending the Con'ference of Grand
Secretaries ·············:········-·········"~·-·

944.32
6,202.47
1,265.00

Dues to Conference of Grand
Masters and Grand Secretaries ....
Lodge officers' surety bond premiums
Transferring collection to constituent Lodge .............................:............. .
Reimbursing Lodges for over-payments of prior years' dues ............. .
Old age and unemployment taxes ..... .
Miscellaneous expenses ........................
Appropriations:
Pay of representatives to Grand
Lodge ................................................... .
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
Employment Bureaus .. ~ ........................ .
Traveling expense, Grand Master..... .
Masonic Club Houses ........................... .
Endowment Board..................................
Grand Lodge Week Activities ........... .
His't ory Committee............................... .
Masonic Information Committee........
Total disbursed for expenses ....... .
Disbursements to be refunded:
San Francisco Board of Relief ........... .
Los Angeles Board of Relief ..............
Total cash disbursements by
Grand ·Secretary......................... .
Cash Balance, July 31, 1943:
Funds with the Grand Treasurer ......
Funds with the Grand Secretary....... .

70.00
1,148.45
141.04
83.06
924.73
219.20

$ 15,723.20
44.00
19,200.00
4,500.00
15,000.00
5,000.00
1,916.06
85.44
533.96

$ 62,002.60
$108,5?6.17

850.00
416.40

$

1,266.40

$109,842.57
$ 37,142.93
5,580.81

$ 42,723.74

4,400.00
168.72
1,433.31
550.37
213.14
639.04
480.63
320.62
250.00
300.00
464.40
348.50
431.47

Exhibit B
Resume of Cash Received and Disbursed, August 1, 1942, to
July 31, 1943

Received and transferred to the Grand TreasurerFor Grand Lodge:
Per capita dues, etc. (Exhibit A) ..................... :....................... :....$103,5'25.65
For the Masonic Homes:
Per capita dues and $25.00 contributions (Exhibit C-2) ............ 274,275.90
For the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund:
Donations and bequests...................................................................... 115,209.43
For the War Relief Fund:
·Donations .............................................................................................. 40,11'2.65
For the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands. Trust Fund :
Dues ..................................................................................... ,..................
5,544.90
Total received and transferred to Grand Treasurer .............. $538,668.53

l

:~ ·~ .. )

•.b

500.00

740

GRAND LODGE Of CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Operating Fund.
. ·. .
,·
·· ·
·
._....
.......,
1487338
· d f rom (",rand T reasurer.......•........
ece1ve
·-····················-··············•·
-.":
, ·
R
Deduct, disbursements for Grand Lodg~ expenses and appropriations for the year 1942-43 as detailed in Exhibit A ............$109,842.57
Balance, Crocker First National Bank, July 31, 1943....................$ 5,030.81
Exhibit C-1
Statement of Grand Lodge Per Capita Dues Collected
From 1942 Annual Returns
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
Per Capita
Amo111il
D11es
.Vumber
Degrees Conferred :
Initiated .........,.............................................. 4,072
Passed ····- ···--·--·--···--·----··--------·----------·-------- 3,698
Raised ..................,...................,....................... 3,571
Total ................................,........................ 11,341

@ $1.00

$11,341.00

Master Masons:
Memberships : 1942'....................................126.,317
Deduct, dues remitted................................ 3,566
Net .:........................................................i'Z.2,7$1

@ $ .65

$79,788.15

$91,129.15

Cash received,. and turned over to
the Grand Treasurer......................

$91,129.15

Exhibit C-2
Statement of Masonic Homes Per Capita Dues and $25.00 Contributions
·
Collected from 1942 Annual Returns
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
Per capita dues:
(126,317 Master Masons, less
3,566 dues remitted)
Constitutional requirement .............. 122,751 @ .SO $61,375.50
Maintenance special levy................ 122,751 @ .40
49,l00.40

Total ....................................4,348 $108,700.00

64,925.00

Balance fourth quarter 1941-42
. collected during 1942-43............
Add first> three quarters 1942-43,
collecte<I. .d uring 1942-43............
Total cash received from fourth
quarter 1941-42 and first three
quarters 1942-43 ..............................

$110,475.90

$ 43,775.00
120,025.00

163,800.00

0

Total cash received for Masonic
Homes and turned over to
the Treasurer................................

$274,275.90

Exhibit D
SPECIAL FUNDS
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1, 1942,
To July 31, 1943
WAR RELIEF FUND
Cash balance, August 1, 1.942....................,...

Total Grand Lodge dues as per annual returns of 1942........................

Total dues collected................
$25.00 Homes Contributions 1941-42 :
Initiations ..............,.................4,072
Affiliations ................................ 265
E. A. and F. C:........................ . 7
Dual members..........................
4

Less first three quarters collected
and reported in 1942 proceedings ........................................

741

$ 61 ,900.99

ReceiptsDonations ••h••·············-······································

' 40,112.65

$102,013.64
'Total to account for ............................
DisbursementsAdministration expense:
Office salaries..............................................$2;170.00
Stationery and printing............................ 4,201.41
Postage ........................................................ 490.86
Telephone and telegraph.......................... 209.03
Clipping Bureau Service..........................
63.30
Hawaiian Islands inspector's traveling
expenses .................................................. 231.25
25.00
Sundry office expense................................
Office eq\lipment.......................................... 311.05 $ 7,701.90
Registration expense:
- ,.- Office salaries............:.....................:..:........$1,376.71
Stationery and printing............................ 504.92
Postage ........................................................ 227.53
Sundry office expense.........................;......
19.94
2,129.10
Service Committee expense:
Stationery and printing.............,..............$ 280.33
35.50
Postage ........................................................
Telephone and telegraph.......................... 209.73
. Traveling expense...........................,.......... 117.66
37.46
680.68
Sundry office expense................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

743

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

742

Activities Committee expense:
Stationery and printin~-···························$
Postage ··································'·····················

28.07
42.50

70.57

Phiffppine Islands dues collection expense:
Stationery and printing......................•.....
Relief:
Boards of .Relief... .......................................$ 805.00
China Relief... ......................... ,..................... 2,500.00
United Service Organizations ................ 5,000.00
American Red Cross .................................. 2,500.00
China Relief, special donation................
50.00
56.00
Individuals ....................................................
Lodge activities .....................:.................... 557.61

Of this grand total of $289,226.70 the Grand Secretary has
collected up to Sept. 30, 1943, substantially the entire sum,
consisting of funds collected from annual returns and transmitted to Grand Treasurer (as evidenced by deposit slips) :
For Grand ,Lo<Lge........ ,....... ~ .............................•........:..........$101,171.85
For Masonic HQmes of California .................. :............... 187,915.10

24.48

$289,086.95
Funds collected from annual returns on depos.it in Grand Secretary's
account (currently received and awaiting transfer to the Grand
Treasurer) ···········································-····························-·····························

84.20

Total funds collected from 1943 annual -r.eturns and accounted for ....$289,171.15

11,468.61
22,075.34

Total disbursements ............................
Cash balance, Bank · of · Californta, July
31, 1943 ............~ .........•...................................

$ 79,938.30

GRAND LODGE OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
·
TRUST FUND

.

Cash balance, August l, 1942,............................................:····················$
Dues ••••••••••••••••-•;• • •••••••••••••••~•-•••••••••• •••••• •••••••••••••W""""o ••••••••••••••·• ••••••••••
Interest .............................................................................................................................

1•486 ·70
5,544.90
34.39

____

Cash balance, American Trust Company, July 31, 194a ................$

This leaves the very small amoun.t of $55.55 as uncollected from 1943
annual returns up to and including September 30, 1943: These small amounts
arise solely as suspense items pending the correction and revision of returns,
and not due to their uncollectibility.
The requiring of an audit 0f the 1943 annual returns, at this time, when
the major po~tion of the collections from such returns are received after the
close of the regular audit period, July 31, and by September 30th of each year,
is commendable indeed. Thus the responsibility for the interim receipt and
accountability of quite substantial sums of money is established and cleared
before the annual communication of the Grand Lodge, and before the customary audit of such funds a year later. This is the first time in many years of
experience that such an early audit has been made _possible. Much credit is
due the Grand Secretary for the organization of material, its availability in
summary form, the prompt review and correction of returns from lodges, all
of which made possible adequate proofs of revenue received. '
Respectfully ~-submitted,
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS .& WEBB,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.
Certified Public Accountants.

7,065.99

GRAND TREASURER'S ACCOUNTS
SUPPLEMENT AL AUDIT
.t of 1943 Returns Requested by Grand Secretary
Supplemental Audl
and Authorized by Grand Master

Gentlemen:
.
. A supplemental audit of the current 1943 annual re~urns fr~~ c~~s:it~~~~
4
lodges, up to ~nd includdi?g st e.ptemb:lr r;~~r~; ~~ ~t! h::nbe~: d~termined to
amounts collectible accor mg o annu
be as follows :
. .
.
75
For Grand Lodge ........... ;;;..::.... ;.......•........... ,........•....•........."'.. ,,...........•....$101,lS2.
For Masonic Homes of California:
:
_,
Home maintenance ._.,...., ........:.... ,..... :.:......:..•. :...........$ 50,598.00
Bulding fund ·..........•.•,. ...,............................................... ~t~6~:~~
$25.MHome contribu~i9t1~ ········································:· _ _ __
Total •.......:..........;..:.................,.............................. ~·················,··

•·
188,045.50

----

' . '
.
........:.....:..;............. :.........•.................$289,228.il
Grand total ..,........... ········-·---·-··.

Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements August 1, 1942
To July 31, 1943
Cash balance, August 1, 1942:
Grand Lodge funds ...... :::;... :.... :...........
War Relief funds .. ~ ...............................
Grand Lodge 0f the Philippine
Islands ..............................................

$ 33,101.17
61,900.99
1,486.70

ReceiptsGrand Lodge funds:
From the Grand Secretary ................$103,525.65
Bank interest..........................................
511.74
Bond interest............. :.........:...............~..
5,813.44
Dividends .. :... :... :::.....~ ..............~..............
8,732.75
Amortization of bond premium........
331.56 $118,915.14

$ 96,488.86

744

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROC!j:EDINGS OF THE

Grand Secretary's revolving funds
War Relief funds:
From the Grand Secret~ry......, .........
Philippine dues fund:
From the Grand Secretary................$ 5,544.90
Bank interest.................................:........
34.39

Total Grand Lodge, cash ..............
5,579.29
164,607.08

Accounts receivable, Board of Relief....

DisbursementsGrand Lodge funds-to the Grand
Secretary:
For use as an operating fund ............$ 5,000.00
For expenses and appropriations...... 109,873.38 $114,873.38

(Exhibit G):
Bonds ......................................................
Stocks ......................................................

$136,948.72

Cash balance, July 31, 1943:
Grand Lodge funds:
· Bank of Amer., Humboldt branch ..$ 7,404.01
Bank of Amer., Clay & Montgom'y 7,356.77
9,800.89
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust
The San Francisco Bank.................. 7,198.62
1,109.99
Anglo California National Bank......
4,272.65 $ 37,142.93
Crocker First National Bank.: ..........

$124,147.22

NoTE : This report covers the period from August 1, 1942, to November
22, 1942, with William .P. Filmer as Grand Treasurer, and from November
23, 1942, to July 31, 1943, with Francis V. Keesling as Grand Treasurer.
Exhibit F
Statement of Assets and Capital Accounts, July 31, 1943
GRAND LODGE FUNDS
Assets
Cash in banks :
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts
(Exhibit E) ....................................
Grand Secretary's operating fund
(Exhibit B) ................•.......:.............

$159,115.57
413,540.63

Total
Less res~;~~---f~~----~~~-;-~;~~~l-~~---~-f

$572,656.20

bond premiums..............:........,....:...

908.39

Net book value.........................:......

571,747.81

• Total assets ......:...............................

$615,737.95

Liabilities
Cash advanced by Grand Lodge of
Iowa for war relief of Iowa
members
Due Collecto;··~f-·I~-;~;~~j..R~~~~-~~--f~~
Withholding Tax on July salaries....
Held for disposition.:.__ dispensation to
Fortitude U. D., Chungking, China

79,938.30

7,065.99

1,266.40

Inv~stments

22,075.34

Total disbursements ........................

Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands
funds:
American Trust Company..................

$ 42,723.74

Sl'ecial funds under control of
Grand Lodge (Exhibit D):
War R elief Fua<i............................$ 79,938.30
Trust Fund for Grand Lodge of
the Philippine Islands..............$ 7,065.99

$261,095.94

Total to account for ......................

War R.elief funds:
Bank of California.................................

550.00

40,112.65

Total receipts ..................................

War Relief funds:
Relief and expense (Exhibit D) ........

745

$

"
500.00

173.10
75.00

Total liabilities................................

748.10

Net assets ..........................................

$614,989.85

Capital Account
Balance, August 1, 1942.~ ..........................
Add excess of revenue over expenses
(Exhibit A) :
Revenue received:
By Grand Secretary........'..............$102,777.55
By Grand Treasurer...................... 15,057.93 $117,835.48
Less exp~nses and appropriations..........

$605,730.54

108,576.17

$ 37,142.93

Excess of revenue over e;)_C:penses ....

9,259.31

5,030.81

Balance, July 3l, 1943..........•...:.................

$614,989.85

746

·PROCil.l:ELiINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit G

MASONIC HOMES:_ AUDITOR'S REPORT

List of Investments, July 31, 1943
Bonds_:_

The Board of Directors,
Masonic Homes of Californi~,
San Frant:isc6; Califorrtia. .

Cost

$ 5,000 Central Maine Power Co., 30 %, 1970...._...,.................,....$ 5,475.00

R;

10,000 Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R'.
4%, 1949........:.:. 9,350.00
5,000 El Paso (Texa~)·. Eiectric qi., 3y,1%, 1970.........._,,~---·····_- 5,412.50
10,000 Fontana Union Wa.ti:r. Co:, 4%, 1946..........:..................... 10,489.00
5,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Hwy. District, 4~%, 1962-3-7 5,120.57
5,000 Imperial County Highway, 5%, due 8-4-43.................•.. 5,125.00
10,000 Metropolitan Water District of So. Calif., 4%, 1980.... 11,312.25
5,000 Nevada California Electric C<>., 5%, 1956~·-········'·······'· 4,637.50
5,000 New . York Water Service Co., 5%, 1951...........:.............. 5,075.00
5,000 Northern Penn. Gas Co., 5%%, 1957..........................•... s;212.5o
5,000 O'Farrell & Stockton Realty Co., 5~%. 1952.........:...... 4,775.00
3,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 4%, 1964.............•................. 3,000.00
20,000 Padfic Gas & Electric Co., · 3~"%. 196L......,~.: .....,.......• 21,500.00
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970..::::........................ 5,087.50
5,000 Pacific Power & Light Co., 5%, 1955..................:.......:. 4,812.50
5,000 Por.tland. ·Gen.era! Electric Co., 40%, 1960........, _............. 4,037.5o'
3,000 Railway Equipment & Realty Co., 40%, 1949.............. 2,955.00
. 6,000 _- Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 4%, 1955............................ 5,580.00
10,000 Southern Pacific Company, · 40%, 1981..::.., .................... 9,565.00
10,000 U. S. Savings Defense, Series G, 20%, 1953................ 10,000.00
20,000 U. S. Treasury, 20%, 1954.•.....................•....•.•..,,............. 20,593.75
----..
.
. . ..
Total bonds...,..
:.~
~
~·-·····--·~:--$159, 1.~ S.51

Gentlemen;

~.

••

"

•.•

· ··-

... '

'

... . - ·

·-.

• .1.

. .

Cincinnati (;as & Electric Co., preferred, $%-'-········:····$
Coast Counties Gas & Electric Cq., prefei:i:i:!f, .5%.•.........,
Gulf Power Co., preferred, 6%•.........c•••••••••••••:·········:--··'.··
Kansas Power & Light Co:, preferred, 4%%.... :~..........

;:~~9.8~~- ¥asonic Temple Assn. of Californ!a··:··························,···· ~~,9,850.00
=-·=-' ~

.-Ohio Edison Co., preferred, 6%........................................
200 Pacific Gas & Electric Co.; ·p referred, 50%....................
·:2oo ? kheem Mfg. Co., cumulative preferred, :5% .....,:.......:...~...

5,525.00
5,000.00
5,000.00

Southern California Gas Co., preferred, 6%.:·············:····
Southern Indiana Gas & Electric Co., preferred, 4.8%....
Southwestern Gas ..& Electric Co., preferred, 5%............
Tep~· ~¥lect~ic ;~rvj,ce Co., preferred, 6%......................
Tidewater Assaciated. .Oil Co., preferred, 40%..............
Toledo' :Edison Co., preferred, 5%.. ~;.~.;..•..:•...........,_...•.~....

6,800.00
5,237.50
5,462.50
5,325.00
4,912.50
5,287.50

200
· 50
50
50
50
50

r:

Total stocks.... u................:.:..·~·-·u·.'.:::.:........~."...:.:.:.......;...;.:...:......$413t540.63

~ ; }. ~-

Total investments ........u • .::. ...: ....... .·u ....... .........., .....:~.:~•.-...: ....: •.• u ·i... ~••$572,656.20
'

·'

. Statements. of..Funds and ,Properties

Statements of Revenue and Expense.
. .
Exh~b~t .C: Statement of Revenue and Expense.
Exh~b~t D: Statement of . Direct Operating Expense-D t
Exh1b1t E: State~en~ of. Direct Operating Expense-Co~~a.~·
~chedule D-1: Distribution of Operating Expense in detail-D f0
chedule E-1: Statement of Operating Expense in detail-Co:~~ '

.

9,750.00
5,400.00
4,753.13
5,237.50

:· ,.
September 28, 1943.

Exh1b1t B : Balance Sheet-General Fund, July 31 1943. · ·
Schedule B-1: State~ent of Securities, Insurance' Policies, and Notes
Receivable, etc., General Fund.
Schedule B-2: · Statement of the Entertainment Fund.
· .
Schedule B-3: Statement of the Students' Loan a!).ci Scholarship Fund.
Schedule B-4: Statement of the C. N. Flint Trust Fund.
Sched~le, $-5:
Statement of the C. N. Flint Annuity Fu~d.
Schedule 'B.-6: Statement of the C. N. Flint Annuity "Mo~giih"
Fund.
Schedule B-7: Statement of the G eorge an d H arriet. Wadleigh Annuity Fund.
t
Schedule B-8: State1?1ent of the Harriet c. Wadleigh Endo
Annmty Fund.
wmen
Schedule B-9: Statement of the Charles L. Patton R~serve Fund
Schedule B-10 : State of Sundry Funds.
·

Shares
100
200
45
··:\.' 50

.·

Exh~b~t A: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements

•••••• • ••••••••••••••

..

·

yY e ~ave audited the books and records of the Masonic Hom ·.
Cahforma for the fiscal year ended July 31 1943
d
es . .of
statements:
'
.' an present the following

~

n ....... : ••••••••••••••••••

7!J7

Comments

Cash:

111

~ecoi;.ei receipts were properly accounted for and deposhed in
e an s.
1s ursements were made by checks and su orted b
ppd
Y. proper
vouchers. Bank balances were verified by
-depositaries.
correspon ence with the
th

The net surplus cash as at July 31, 1943, per our Exhibit
$141,658.39, as computed below:
B; was
Total Cash ....................... :......v'.;................$155,{>12.67
Less, amount due to other funds:....... 13,954.28
Net surplus cash.........,...........:........,........$141,658.39
Securities, Real Estate, Etc.:
.
. .
All of the securities, etc., listed under Schedule ~ 1 ~a . b
. .'
by donat'
Th b k ·i
ve een received
e. oo va ue represents the market value jl.t the ti
·. f
. ion.
donation. A nommal value of $1.00 is used for purpose of r
d meh 0
the actual value is unknown.
·
ecor w en
Notes and contract. r ece1va
· bl e are l'1sted at the unpaid balance as at
July 31, 1943.
0,

748

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND ·LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

J,_ife insurance . policies, received mainly from residents of the Hom~s,
have been recorded at the amount recoverable at the death of the insured,
if determinable, otherwise at a nominal value of $1.00.
Originally, real estate was recorded at the assessed value as taken
from the tax bills. Due to the constant fluctuation in real estate values,
and to avoid reporting book losses resulting from such fluctuation when
as a . fact no actual loss had occurred, all real estate donated during the
.past several years has been recorded on the books for record purposes
at a nominal value of $1.00.
- ·
·
The stocks and bonds and some of the notes are held by the Anglo
California National Bank for safekeeping. These were verified by certification from the bank. The remainder of the notes and the insurance
policies are held at the office of the Homes Secretary and were inspected
by us.
Trust and Annuity Funds:
Under Schedules B-4, B-5, B-6, B-7 and B-8, are shown the details
of the vario'u·s.· trust and annuity funds. Payments due from the annuity
funds in :accordance with the contracts and agreements were made from
th~ Homes 'general fund. Reinbursements were later made to the general
fund from the various trust and annuity funds.
All Bank balances and securities of these funds were verified by cor.respondence with the depositaries.
Total Funds of the Homes:
A summary of all funds as at July .31, 1943, is shown below:
Homes General Fund (Exhibit B) ..........................,.......................$2,627,149.58
Entertainment Fund (Schedule B-2)................................................
3,645.85
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund (Schedule B-3) .•....,.......
52,662.01
C. N. Flint Trust Fund (Schedule B-4) ..........,.........,,.................. 161,127.10
Charles.L. Patton Reserve Fund (Schedule B-9) .....................;:.
46,464.28
Special Entertainment Fund for Decoto Residents
(Scffedule B-10) ..............._..........;......-..................._.,..............,,,._,_.., ·
3,413.18
Annuity Funds (Schedules B-5, B-6, B-7, B-8)............................ 152,808.13
Endowment Fund...........................,.•.. ~, ...·............................................ 1,489,137.02
Total ~.,........,,.,.,..-... ,,..............,.,..,,...................:.....,.....,...;'.....,,...:.......~,536,407.15
General:
Sufficient examination and tests were made of the revenue and ex.pense accounts to satisfy ourselves as to the general correctness of' the
accounting. Detailed distribution of the operating expenses of the Homes
were made by the Decoto and Covina offices and were accepted as correct
after we had verified amounts by totals.
Certificate:
We certify that, in our op1mon, subject to the foregoing comments,
the attached statements set forth the financial condition of · the Masonic
Homes of California as at July 31, 1943, and the result of the operations·
·for the year.
Respectfully submitted, ·
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB,
Certified Public Accountants,

By FLOYD T. WEBB.

749

Exhibit A
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August 1, 1942, to July 31, 1943
General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1942..................

$ 35,517.67

Receipts
From Revenue Accounts:
1942 annual returns:
Maintenance special levy..............$ 49,100.40
Constitutional requirement.......... 61 ,375.50
$25.00 Homes contributions ........ . 163,800.00 $274,275.90
Endowment Fund income:
.
Regular fund .................. ,.................$ 40.,817.92
Luckenbach ·fund.....:···-...............~..
2,342.94
General maintenance (income from,
and proceeds from sales of securities, real estate, insur~nce
~olicies, etc., received by donation) ..................-...............................
Contributions paid through Lodges:

26,484.34

5,803.92
~~~ g~~f:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ 7,063.14
State aid for Covina..........................
Care of employees' children..............
Outside relief, not eligible' for
Homes relief, reimbursed by
Grand Lodge..............:...................
Funeral expense refunds ....................
Sundry refund ·of expenses ................
Miscellaneous income:
Farm rent-Decoto ........................$
900.00
Sundry income-Decbto................
652.08
Farm sales;,_Covina......................
2,969.23
Sundry income-Covina..............
446.60
Interest on savings accounts ......
129.88
Total cash from revenue accounts ........
Reimbursements from trust funds:
The three ·C. N. Flint funds ............$
The two Wadleigh funds ..................

43,160.86

12,867.06
6,040.98
650.00
4,400.00
3,526.43
13.00

5,097.79
$376,516.36

2,040.00
3,125.00

5,165.00

For account of other funds:
Entertainment fund ..............................$ 7,135.68
Students' loan fund ..............................
1,907.51
Endowment fund ........................:.........
1,595.00
Decoto residents' deposits ..................
1,928.45
Decoto. residents' special entertainment fund ........................................
273.67

. 12,840.31

750

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Tax withheld from July salaries of
employees ..............................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALlFORNIA

Exhibit B
Balance Sheet, General Fund"July 31, 1943

868.45

Total re;ceipys.,.•...,....._.,............•.~ ......•

395,390.12

Total cash to account for ........................

$430,907.79

Disbursements
Expense accounts:
Operating expense-Decoto..............
Operating expense--Covina..............
Outs.ide relief....................:...•.;·.........'......
Outside care of children........•......,.:..
General maintenance (insurance,
taxes, and other ·expenses on
property donated to the Homes)
Funeral expenses ............_. .......:...:.........

$128, 148.79
88,207.72
15,923.00
2,773.87
1,703.24 .
3,886.44

Administrative and general expense:
Taxes ............,.:.............·-···-··M~···········..$ 3;305.00
Insurance ..............................................
4,808.86
Field investigation expense:
~- •
Northern District............................ 1: 2·;331.07
Southern District..........................- .. .2,886.66
Reimbursed Grand Lodge Secrec·"')l:
tary's and assistant's_. §31..,aries...,.. ' 1,800.00
Pensions-"-retire<J. employe~s..............
750.00
Trustees' expens~..................................
521.83
Auditing ....•...•.......................................
1,475.00
Safekeeping of securities..................
791.67
Telephone and telegraph .....·-···-·······
210.39
208.97
Office supplies and printing............
Miscellaneous expense:.......................
54.66

Trust funds-to be reimbursed:
The three C. N-. Flint funds ............$
The two Wadleigh funds..................

For account of 0th.er funds:
Entertainm·e nt ·.fUnd: .......•.....................$ 5,645.72
2,078.13
Students' loan fund ................:.............
Endowment fund ..........................,....... . 2,400.00
Securities:
Paid mortgage on donated real
estate ................................................

Secui;ities,: real estate, etc., (Donated) :
General fund secµrities (Schedule B-1) ···················-············-$ 53,758.18
Real estate.-............:........................
5,060.00

58,818.18

Properties: (At cost..:....:.no depreciation taken)
Land, buildings and equipment
-Decoto .............:....................$1,788,838.98
Land, buildings and equipment
-Covina .................................. 606,093.98
Land and improvetnents ..:.....
Camp Tucker ........................
fJ,096.00

2,418,028.96

; ~ ,.

Stores and Supplies :
D ecoto ,:..~ ...~.....:..•..~...........'.....~...$
Covina ............................................

8,338.71
1,173.79

9,512.50
0

Total assets ..............................

19,144.11

:r. .

1,959.61
3,125.00

Assets
Cash:
Treasurer's bank accounts ........$ 131,936.26
Operating bank accountsDecoto and Covina.'.............
22,676.41
Revolving funds-Decoto and
Covina ......................................
1,000.00 $ 155,612.67

..

$259,787.17

Total expense accounts ................

751'

5,084.61
··' .
·•·

•

Liabilities
Due to other funds:
C. N . Flint trust fund ................$
Students' loan fund ............•.:.......
Residents' deposits fund ............
Decoto residents' special entertainment fund ..........................
Entertainment fund ....................

53.02
3,847.46
2,994.77
3,413.18
3,645.85· $

Due collector of Internal Revenue:
. Tax withheld, July salaries....

..

Total liabilities ........................
10,123.85

Excess of assets over liabilities ....

299.49

Total disbursements ......................

275,295.12

Cash balance, _July 31, 1943..................'..

$155,612.67

$2,641,912.31

1

.•r

13,954.28

"

868.45
:~r .."~'

14,822.73

• .$2,627,149.58

Capital Accounts
Balance, August 1, 1942................................................
$2,512,600.64
Add:
Excess of revenue over expense 1942-43 (Ex- '. <··. ;"
hi bit C) ··-·····-JJ.:.<.:......,........~~~·.;·...,...;.;-,~·...,...,:$i i 9,3.$6.96, ~Cf
Securities and real estate donated 1942-43........ 3,133.88
122,490.84
Total ......:.......................... ,.~ ..:....~····•············..'··

v

$2,635,091.48

752

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Building and, Loan Certificates donated:

Deduct:
Book value of notes and insurance collected,
and securities and real estate sold. Entire
proceeds recorded as revenue ......................... .

7,941.90

Balance, July 31, 1943......................... ,..............,) .. ,........

$2,627,149."S8

Schedule B-1
Statement of Securities, Insurance Policies and Notes and Contracts
Receivable, General Fund, July 31, 1943
Stocks Donated:
Book Value
Shares:
Anglo California National Bank, common ............ • $ 320.'00
30
100.00
Anglo Natioflal Corporation, Class A, common ....... .
10
S02.SO
Bank of America, N. T . and S. A.:................:............ ..
10
1.00
Bancamerica-Blair Corporation .................. J................. •
3
1.00
Buttes Oilfields, Inc., Class A, common .................. •
100
16.00
Cities Service Company, common ............................ •
4
1.00
Coen Companies, Inc., Class A .................................. ,.
12
3.00
Daily News Corporation, Class C, common ............•
3
2S.OO
Goodyear Tire & Rubber ·Co., common ..................... .
1
400.00
Graton & Knight Co., preferred ..:..........:.................... •
4
10.00
Graton & Knight Co., cotnmon .................................... •
10
3,3SO.OO
Home Insurance Co., of New York........................ ..
103
l,S00.00
Kern County Mutual Building & Loan Assn ......... •
15
70.00
Lloyd Oil Corporation ............................. :.............:........ •
70
200.00
McKeon Canning Co., Inc ........................................... ..
2
1.00
Marysville· Hotel Co....... ,, ............................ :..............~ ....
2
60.00
.Masonic Hall Assn. of Alameda:.......,......................... •
6
1.00
Masonic Temple Assn. of Stockton .............................•
2
1.00
Midway Oil Co............................................................... •
so
100.00
National Leather Co., preferred .................................. •
1
S0.00
National Leather Co., common .................................. •
5
70.0()
National-Pacific Tank & Mill Co............................. •
10
lS0.00
North American Investment Corp., common .......... •
100
437.SO
North American Oil Consolidated, common ............. .
so
44.00
Orinda Petroleum Co., Ltd., Class A .......:.: .............. •
2
37.08
Pacific Empire Holdings .............................................. •
18S3
3SO.OO
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% preferred................. ..
14
200.00
Pacific Public Service Co., common .................... :....... ..
so
100.00
Southern California Edison Co., Ltd., common ...... ..
4
6.00
Stoney, Rouleau & Stoney, Inc., common ................ •
6
7.00
Texon Oil & Land Co ................................................. ..
7.
1,626.SO
Transamerica Corporation ......................:....................... ..
140
1.00
8/100 United Cigar-Whelan Stores Corp., common .......... •
1.00
United Stores Corp., Class A .................,.................... •
1
47S.OO
Walworth
Company,
common
......................................
..
100
Total stocks...........................................c........................

$10,217.S8

Bonds Donated:
.
$1,SOO.OO Market St. Railway Co., first mortgage, 5%, 194S ........$1,SOO.OO
2,000.00 Portland Electric Power ·Co., 6%, 19SO............................ • S67.SO
Total bonds .......:..................................................................$2,067.SO

*NOte': No dividends or interest received.

7S3

Pacific States .Savings & Loan Co. .. ................... ... _
San Jose Building-Loan Assn ...................................................... .
Southern California Building & Loan Assn ....... ~~·- .................... ..

618.7S
1,344.lS
800.00

Total building and loan certificates ......,.....................................$ 2,762.90
Insurance policies donated:
Acacia Life Insurance Co. ................................ ,~.,....;;. .......,~.-····-.$ 1,000.00
Acacia Mutual Life Insurance Co., $2,000 less l~a~ $1,009.98 .. ..
1.00
Al Malaikah Auditorium Co. ...................................................... ..
100.po
Balder Relief Association .................................................................. ..
22S.OO
Conservative Life Insurance Co. ................................................ ..
77.00
Equitable Fraternal Union ................................................ :................. l,073.2S
. 1.00
Low Twe1ve Club of Pasadena: .........................................................
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co....................... :.............................
196.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., $500 ............................................
1.00
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of N. Y., $S,073 less loan $1,67S .. .. 3,398.00
New York Life Insurance Co. .. .................................................. .. 2,000.00
· Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Co ................................................. 1,000.00
300.00
Parnassus Mutual Benefit Fund.. :............. :.....................................
Presbyterian Ministers' Fund, sum µncertain, loan $3,107 ... ,.. .. 3,S00.00
Prudential Insurance Co. of America, 10 policies............... ~ ...... 2,761.68
Widows and Orphans Funds:
·
Aahmes Temple, 2 policies of $1,500........................... :..... :.... .. 3,000.00
California Bodies Scottish Rite ................................................ .. 1,000.00
1.00
Califorhia Bodies Scottish Rite ........................................ ! ........ .
Islam Temple, 2 policies of $1,000.......................................... .. 2,000.00
Tofal ·insurance policies:...... :.: .......................................................$21,634.93

Notes and Contracts Receivable:
(Arising from donated notes and sales of donated prope(ty.)
Andrus, John R. and Jean K. ................................................... :., .. ;:$ 919.92
397.14
Baxley, Webster and Ann ...............................................................;
Bergstrom, Alfred J. and Minnie .......................... ~ ..........,.............. l,S07.03
Byer, Otto I:: a·n d Erna...............................................,.................... l,S48.0S
Calvary Baptist Church, Canada...................................................... l,OS0.00
Dias, John M. and Irene D ... ,..........................................~---···.,,_::·
116.60
Frisk~n, James ...................... ~ ...............................,..................................
S00.00
Gordon, Archie and Josephine......................................,.:.-•.,--'..:~..··71S.71
Groo, David E . and M. Frances .................................. :_ .........: ... :... 1,000.00
Herrick, Kennan C. and Virginia B. ..............................................
331.66
Hoag, George H: and Esther A. .................................................... 2,89S.11
Lerza, · Manfred and Lucy................................................................
770.00 ·
Miller, Homer E. and Mattie R. .................................................... 2,000.00
Pine, George S. and Lovilia K .... ._............. ,....................,.............. 1,228.09
Taylor, Theo. B. and Launena.......................... :.,........................... 2,09S.96
Total notes and contracts ............................. :........... ,.................... 17,07S.27
Total securities, insurance .policies, notes and contracts ..................$S3,7S8.18

GRAND 1.0DGE OF:··CAi..iFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

754

Schedule B-2
Summarized Statement of Entertainment Fund for the Fiscal
Year Ended July 31, 1943
Balance, August 1, 1942....................................;................:.....:......:..:..:...::..$2,155.89
Receipts:
Donations .................................,................................................................ ·7,111.18
Total •............................~ ...............:....:.....•:.. ~ ........,,..'.....'.:......'.L..'..$9;267.07
Distributions:
.
Decoto Chris.tmas.........................,....<:.•'....c;_,_.•..•............••$2, 128.00
Decoto entertainment................,.........................................· 608.08
Covina enter.tainment.. ......·--·-··-······-··:·················:···'···· 2,885.14 · 5,621.22
Balance, July 31, 1943......,,.....................................................;..

'

Sch~duie
· B:3
.• +
'

$3,645.85

Less, reserve for amortization of bond ·premitun-s ·

48.56

Net book value...........................:"·"''"""·"··-~-~,,, .. \;C':
Due from Homes general fun·d.............,:o:.;.'.;.•
...,,:.
• •..::,....-.:~
• . -iP.

44,775.44
3,847.46

Balance, July Ji; 1943 (as above) ..._.•····'·'···'····•"'"'""'·"""i:O''" ..-:

$52,662.01

Schedule B-4
Summarized Statement of C. N. Flint Trust Fund for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
Balance, August 1, 1942...............,:...... ~:......~..
$156,238.83
Add:
Dividends, interest from investments ..$5,612.49
0
Less, reserved for amortiza~_on. of .bond
premiums :··•·········:····················:···:·:······· 924.48 $4,688.01
..--.- .Ren ta! o~:house.i ......:..::::......:...•.:.........::,:...::
600.00
Profit from securities cailecL..........:.. ~.: ...
5,407.88
1)9.87
~

A: "!'t.' ·- .. !J

~

·summari:ted Statement of St~dents' Loan and Scholarship Fund
For. the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
·$49,143.94
BaJ~nce, August 1, ·1942.::::....;:;;__ .....:...:....:...
Add:
Dividends, interest f;om investments ....$1,940.52
Less, reserved for amortization of bond
30.67 $ 1,909.85
premiums .................................,. ............ .
Donated, l. U. S. War Saving Bond....
Loans returned...........................:.:...._.,..: ........

755

74.00 .
2,094.27

4,078.12
$53,222.06 .

36,456.97

· · Student&'. Loan Fun-0................................:.

14,20?.04 $52,662.01

560.05
2,000.00

Comp~siti_on of Fund
Cash in Anglo California National Bank......................
$ 4,039.11
Securities (bonds):
.
$5,000 Illinois Power & Light Co'.; S%, 1956....$ S,162.50
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970...... 5,100.00
5,000 Southern 'California Gas Co., 3y,!%, 1970 5,337.50
5 000 Southern Counties Gas Co., 3%, 1971.... 5,150.00
'100 U. S. War Savings, Series F, 1955......:...
· 74.00
5,000 U~ S. War Savings, Series G, 20%, 1955 5,000.00

-··· -·· ·Total ...........:.................................................•........$44,824.00

$161,646.71
302.27
217.34

Bala11ce, July 31, 1943....................................:~

Total ................:.......................................
Deduct, distributed for educational purposes' ..............................................................
Balance, July 31, 1943:
George P. Allen Scholarship Fund........
George and Laura E. Brigham Scholar: ship Fund..................................................

Stocks:
527 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6%, pfd: 14,000.00
250 shares Southern Calif. Edison Co., 6%, pfd. 5,000.00

Total ;~ ....:...; ......................................
Deduct:
'. :
· ...
·
··
Taxes on.._property........................................
.Upkeep of property'.............. _...........:...7 :-: ·r·•

519.61
$161,127.10

Compositio?.. of Fund
Cash:
Anglo . California National Bank.................,..........$ 12,094.38
Security-First National Bank.................................. 3,793.02 $ 15,887.40
Notes receivable (deed of trust) ..:.....................:.........
Improved real estate (assessed value) ........................
Securities. (bonds):
$ 2,000 Baxter Creek Irrigation District, defaulted ..$
130.00
10,000 Cleveland Union Terminal, 1st mtg., 4Y,%,
1977 ........................................................................ 10,287.50
8,000 Consolidated Federal Farm Loan, 4%,
1946 ···-···..··························"························"········ 8,980.00
2,000 Consolidated Federal Farm Loan, 3Y<I%,
1955 ........................................................................ 2,153.96
1,000 Cov:ina, City, Sewer, 2~%, 1950...... ~... ..........
973.44
3,000 Los Angeles County, Drainage, 6%, 1944
47-48 ...................................................................... 3,478.00
· 4,000 Los Angeles County, Flood Control, 5%,
1947~48 .................................:................................
4,629.44
1,000 Los Angeles County Sanitation. ·District,
5~~%. 1~'50.::. .... :-··-············-·-··-·-···-·-····-----~- 1;145.31
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Power Plant, 4%,
1956 .......................................................................... 1,093.33•
1,000 Los Angeles, City of,. Improvement, 6%,
1944 . ...: ............................................_...................... 1,017.33
10,000 Los Angeles, City' of, Water Works, 4Y,%,
1962 ·-·-=-···-···········:-..~-----·-···············-···-······ 12,338.9.5

9,145.97
5,480.00

P!<.vCEEDINGS OF THE

756

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

10,000 Los Angeles Mountain Park .Co., defaulted 1,650.00
20,000 Louisville & Nashville R.R. Co., 1st mtg.,
. 3~~ %, 20003..............·-········-~·-················-·····l....... 18,700.00
1,000 Modesto Irrigation District, 6%, 1950........ 1,207.50
1,000 Pierce Joint Union High School District,
4J4%. 1946..................................................-·······-· 1,065.31
. .. 1,000 San Diego County, Special .District Refunding, 2f4%, 1946............................_.............. 1,030.31
2,000 Tule Irrigation District, defaulted................
130.00
4,000 U. S. Savings Defense,· Series G., 20%,
1954 ················--·.-··········--········-···············-·--········· 4,000.00
12,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 3f4%, 1956.............. 14,156.25
22,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 4%, 1954.................... 25,164.84

1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water Works, 4J4%,
1960 ........................................................................
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water Works, 40%,
1961 ········································································
6,000 Metropolitan .Water District of Southern
California, 4%, 1963-65-81-83............................
1,000 Santa Monica School District, 5%, 1961....
1,000 U. S. Savings Defense, Series G., 20%,
1954 ......................,............,.........•............,.............

Total ...............~...................................................$132;331.47
Less, reserve for amortization of bond premiums.... 1,770:76
Net book value of securities ........................
Due. from Masonic Homes General Fund....................

$130,560.71
53.02

Balance, July 31, 1943.,..,........,.........:..................,............

$161,127.10

Schedule B-5
Summarized Statement of C. N. Flint Annuity Fund for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
$. 78,5o5.o5
Balance, August 1, 1242..................................
Add:
Interest from investments........................
$2,720.25
Less, reserved for amortization of•bond
1,505.71
· t,214.54
premiums .•..............................................
Total .......................,................................
Deduct:
Payments on contract................................

$ 80,010.76

Balance, July , 31, 1943......................................

$ 79,010.76

Composition of Fund
Cash in Anglo California National Bank....................
Securities (bonds):
·
·
$ 5,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highw~y District,

$ 7,715.86

434%, 1961......,...................................,:v··:-····;··••$ 6,837.75
2,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District,
3f4%, 1967.•···········-················-···············--·-········ 2,459.06
20 000 Great Northern Railway Co., Gen. Mtg.,
41~% 1977.............................................................. 21,154.40
'
20,000 Great Northern Railway Co., Gen. Mtg.,
4% 1946.;....................t.......................................... 24,554.80
1 000 Lo~ Angeles, City of, Electric Plant, 4J4%,
'
1964 .............~---································-··-··-···,..···: .... 1,290.48

1,169.18
6,129.38
7,766.21
1,362.72
1,000.00

Total .;.,.._.T:.-...·............~.................................,.·..$ 73,723.98 ..
. .
· Less, reserve for amortization of. bond premiums.... 2,429.08-

Stocks:
100 shares Secl.!rity-First National Bank of Los
Angel.e s·:·....:..'~ .........................._.............................. 6,000.00
500 shares Transamerica CQrporation................ 1
100 shares Bank of America N.T. & S.A. ........ ~ 13,000.00
20 shares Bancamerica-Blair Corp................... J

. '\.'

if57

1,000.00

N ef book value of securities ....•.........................

71,294.90

· Balance, July 31, 1943 (as above) .......•...:•..........•.•.......

$ 79,010.76

Schedule B-6
Summarized Statement of C. N. Flint Annuity "Morgan" Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
·
Balance, August I, 1942..................................
·
·$ 28,747.93
Add:
Dividends and interest· · from investments •......................:.......•-······················
$1,176.55 ·l:i•
Less, reserved for amortization of bond
premiums ..........,.................................... ~
136.91
1,039.64
Total ....................................................

$ 29,787.'57

Payme~ts on contract.............................._

440.00

Balance, July 31, 1943..............~~---··················-

$ 29,347.57

Deduct:

Composition of Fund
Cash in Anglo California National Bank....................
Securities (bonds) :
$ 3,000 Beverly Hills, City <;>f, Water, 4J4%, 1960....$
5,000 Glendale Union High School District, 5%,
1965-6 ...............................................................,.....
2,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water, 5%,
1960 ........................................,...............................
4,000 U. S. Savings Defense, Series G, 20%,
1954 ........................................................................
S~c~:
,
253 Units Security Company...:.:..................................
60 shares Security-First National Bank of Los
Angeles .........................................................................

. ~ 2,190.97
3,689.70
6,697.4~

2,603.31
4,000.00
7,590.00
2,850.00

Total ......•..•.;.....~ ....•..............'..................:..........$ 27,430.42
Less, reserve for amortization of bond premium....
273.82
Net book value of securities.....;..................

27,156.60

Balance, July 31, 1943 (as above)................................

$ 29,347.57

758

GRAND LODGE O.F CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

759,

Schedule B-7
Summarized Statement of "George and Harriet Wadleigh Annuity
Fund" for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
$ 19,613.36
Balance, August 1, 1942...•...:..........::...::.......,........-. .......,
Add:
601.52
Interest from in~estments ........:....................•............$
Less, reserved for amortization of bond prem443.37
158.15
iums ... -~--,...... ,---------·-----·········-···-...................".."."""""""""·······~----

Los Angeles, City of:
1,000 Electric Plant, 4~%, 1967...- ............~.•........ 1,328.10
1,000 Harbor Improvements, 4U%. 1965,...:..... 1,401.83
1,000 Park Construction, 4o/o, 1967....................•. 1,275.86
1,000 Water Works, 4Y.%, 1966..~ ...........:............. l,363:03
2,000 Water Works, 5%, 1966-74.......................... 2,967.38
1,000 Water Works, 4;4%, 1967.••......'··'···'"········· . 1,328.82
10,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern
· California, 3%, 1971..,.............,........ "~"··"'····'···"· 10,945.40

Total ·······•-~ ·-······.·····································.············
Deduct payments on contract........................................

$ 20,Q56.J3

Total ~.....•................... ~ ................'...:.•.;;..-.L ..-$ 26,182.68
Less, reserve for amortization of bond premiums....
369.94

Balance, July 31, 1943.........,.......,..........~- --·'···"·,.•···-····-

$ 18,431.73

Net book value of securities..........,.,............

25,812.74

· Composition of Fund
'Cash in Anglo · California National Bank................
$ 1,551.59
Securities (bonds):
$ 6,000 East Bay. lf tinicipal :Utility . District, 5~,
197 4-6 ....:.':;:·....__................ ;,_.~: ................:.......:~...... 8,984.19
5,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water,
4Y,%, 1973.:.................... _................•...;................. 6,828.07
1,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Wa~er,
4}4%, 1970-.'··············-~·-········r:..·'.:···:··:···:···-·········· 1,384.18

Balance, July 31, 1943 (as above) ..................:.............

$ 26,018.07

1,625.00

Total ;_....•...........:.........:...."..'...~·-'····-········:........$ 17,196.44
Less, reserve for amortization of bond premiums...:
316.30

Add:

Interest from investments.............•................................$ 1,325.40
Less, reserved for amortization of bond
premiums ................................................................
192.72
Balance, July 31, 1943.................::..... ;.~:., ..,:.L................

Net book value of securities.::.....................

16,880.14

Balance, July 31, 1943 (as above) .....................•....:·.....

$ 18,431.73

Schedule B-8
Summarized Statement of Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity
Fund for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
$ 26,884,81
Balance, August 1, 1942:...........:..........:..........................
Add:
832.30
Interest from investtnents:.................•.............
$
Less, re.served for amortization of bond
633.26
199.04
premiums ······'·····--'·······················--··········-...·········
.. - $ 27,518-07
Total ················•···'···-·,··'····'··············..··············
· 1,500.00
Deduct payments on contract.........................................
ft.......

Balance, July 31, _1943._., ...........::··,·:·········:······.:·:·-·:·········

Schedule B-9
Summariz.e d Statement of Charles L. Patton Reserve Fund for
·
The Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943 .
Balance, August 1, 1942..................................................
$ 45,331.60

$ 26,018.07

Composition of Fund
~
Cash in Anglo California National Bank..:.................
Securities (bonds):
$ 1,000 Compt9q 1Jnio.n High School District, 5%,
1957 .......;.. - ....:...,/..:...,.............••,..,_•..,...---···,,-.$ 1,301.46 _
1,000 Compton City School DistriCt,' 5%, 1~62.::: · 1,367.9?
2,000 East Bay Municipal Utility District, 5%, ·
1971 .....,.................................................................. 2,902.85

205.33

1,132.68

$ 46,464.28

Composition of Fund
$ 5,875.12
Cash in Anglo California National Bank..................
Securities (bonds):
$ 5,000 California Water Service., 1st mtg., 4%,
1961 I ; ••;.c;,,,;,;i'·:..···•••••••••••••••••···:::::...::.....: •.,.: ....•....$ 5,142.31
3,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water Works, 4Y.%,·
1967 ........:...........................•........,.................:...:.!;; 4,083.53.
2,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California, 3Y,%, 1980................................... .... 2,409.69
3,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California, 4%, 1982...........................•.... ·-·-···· 3,961.45
2,000 New York City, Water Supply, 4~%,
1972 ......,....................................,..,.,.,...................... 2,545.00
8,000 New York City, Dock Improvements,
4%%. 1972................- .......~.........., ................,................... 10,180.00
2,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Hetch
Hetchy, 4Y.%, 197L...............~......................~ .. · 2,65-:;!.61
10,000 U . . S. Savings Defense, Series G, 2Y.%,
1955 '.. : ••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••o••••••••••••••••A••••••••••• •••••••• 10,000.00
.
. Total :.:........:......................·-···········-·······'···"•"*' 40,974.59
Less, reserve for amortization of bond premiums....
385.43
Net book value of securities.......................• ·

40,5.89.io

Balance, Jul:/3t 1943 (as above) ................,.............,.

$ 46,464.28

760

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule B-10
Summarized Statement of Sundry Funds Held for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
Special Entertainment Fund ·for Decoto Residents:
Balance, August 1, . i94i.......~ ....~---·················:..............,.... - ............$ 2,350.58
Add from deceased residents' depo&its...........................................
1,062.60
Balance, July 31, 1943............................-.,·····-····.··················•······•······-·$ 3,413.18
Funds Held in Trust
Residents' Deposits:
Cash on deposit by residents of Decoto :
954.28
Central Bank, Niles........ - ..........................................:...- ..........•...$
Due from Homes General Fund............................................... 2,994.77
Total depoi1its .............................................•..............................$ 3,949.05
Covina Residents' Trust Funds :
Neil Fraser Smith:
Anglo California National Bank. ........ :... -................. :...............$
Faye Ruth Burnham:
.
Anglo California National Bank................................................

67.02

Total ........•... :......................,.........................................................$

156.02

89.00

Exhibit C
Statement of Revenue and Expense for the Fiscal Year
Ended July 31, 1943
Revenue--:
1942 Annual Returns :
Maintenance special levy ....................$ 49,100.40
Constitutional requirement................ 61,375.50
$25.00 Homes contrib,IJtions ................ 163,800.00 $274,275.90
Endowment Fund Income:
Regular fund .......................,.................. 40,817.92
Luckenbach fund ................................. : 2,342.94
General maintenance (income from,
and proceeds from sales of, securities, real estate, insurance policies,
etc., less expenses of $1,703.24) ....... .
Contributions paid through Lodges:
For Decoto........................................... .
For Covina........... ·-································
State aid for Covina ........·-·······················
Care of employees' children ................... .
Interest on savings accounts .......:..........

43,160.86

19,144.11
242,548.82
$119,356.96

Exhibit D
Statement of Direct Operating Expense (Decoto) Less Sundry Direct
Revenue Received for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
*Operating Expense:
Maintenance ......................................... .
$ 77,259.78
Hospital .: ............................................... .
14,396.39
Farm and ga.r den ..................................
5,832.89
Laundry ................................................
3,978.92
Heating plant ........................................
4,658.38
Paint shop ............................................
978.46
978.66
Transportation .................................... ..
General and administrative :
Superintendent & office sal~ries .. $ 7,231.00
20,887.45
Expense ········-;--··················· .. ··········· 13,656.45

Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm produce consumed ..............
Farm rent ..............•...........................
Sundry revenue ........................ ,.......

12,867.06
6,040.98
650.00
129.88

Total revenue ................................. .
Expense-Operation of Homes:
Decoto (Exhibit D) .......................... $124,028.75
.
Covina (Exhibit E) .............................. 84,719.08 . $208,747.83

14,296.87
360.01

Total (refer to Schedule D-1
for details) ........................... .

24,781.10
5,803.92
7,063.14

Outside Relief and Care:
· Outside telief.......................................... 11,523.00
Outside care of children ..............,..... 2,773.87
F.uneral expense......................................... .
Administrative and general expense:
Taxes ......................................................
3,305.00
Insurance ............................................. .
4,808.86
Field investigation expense:
Northern district........................... . 2,331.07
Southern district............................
2,886.66
Secretary's and assistant's salaries ..
1,800.00
Pensions-'-retired employees ........... .
750.00
Trustees expense................................. .
521.83
Auditing _............................................. .
1,475.00
Safekeeping of sei;urities ................. .'..
791.67
Telephone and telegraph ....................
210.39
208.97
Office supplies and printing..............
Miscellaneous expense........................
54.66
Total e:x.pense ............................- - - Extess ·o f revenue over expense........... .

761

Net operating expense ............................. .

$361,905.78

$128,970.93
$ 3,390.10
900.00
652.08

4,942.18
$124,028.75

•Note: Total operating expense includes:
~::::1 ·
(a) Cash , expend~tures, pe; Exhibi~ ~ .............:....~ .......... ~ .....~: •• :.$1Z$,J,48.79
(b) Less, expenditure for increase in inventory of stores ... ~. ...
2,567.96

Net cash for expenses .............:........:.......................... ,.... .:......$12$1580.83
(c) Plus non-cash items: Farm produce consumed..................
3,390.10
Total .(as above) .....................................................:.......•........$128,970.93 ,

,;.

762

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit E
Statement of Direct Operating Expense (Covina) Less Sundry Direct
Revenue Received for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
*Operating Expense:
Maintenance (care of children) ......:::.J.:..;._,...:.........$ 75,533.92 · · ,.
Administrative e~pensC-....... ~:.a. .........:. ...~... !-;..::. •. ::. ••·••••::...
9,754.95
~~:;;:
Farm expense........'...........•.c•••• .'•••:................................... 3,863.01
u

..

Farm and garden expense:
Salaries and w.ages.........:.:...•................
Tools and equipment....•.......................
Seeds .....................................~ ......:...........
Feed ..........................................•.............
Miscellaneous expense........................

763

$ 3,983.19
15.80
88.73
1,366.72
378.45

Laundry expense: .
Salaries and wages..............................
Supplies and expense....,......................

$ 3,409.42

Farm produce consumed.........:c••••••••• L!'.~ ....;....:..$ l,016.97·Hl<
Farm produce sold outside................•..•.........·...·.·... 2,969.23 '<O
446.60
. 4,432.80
Sundry revenue .........•. _...:............................................

Heating plant:
Salaries and wages..............................
Repairs and maintenance......:;............

$ 2,533.75

Net operating expense.......... ~....................·..·...·.·...........•·,;;:.:..•..,..:,...-..:·...:::..:$ 84,719.08
*Note: Total operating expense includes:
' ",
(a) Cash expenditures, per Exhibit A ..~........:..,..:.:.....::....:L::..•.•.$ 88,207.72
·(b) Less, expenditures for increase in inventory of stores.....
72.81

Paint shop:
Salaries and wages .......:.......:......:.........
Supplies and expense......................... .'..

$

Transportation expense:
Salaries and wages..............•...............
Gasoline and oil:......:............................
Tires and repairs ...................,.;...;........

$

$ 89,151.88

Total (refer to Schedule E-1 for details)
Deduct:

Sund~y direct revenue:

Net cash for expenses......:.....:...,.....:................ ~ ..:.. ~~ ....:..•.~.:".$ 88,134.91
1,016.97
(c) Plus non-cash item: Farm produce consumed..................
Total (as above) .................: ..:......................:...:......................$ 89,151.88

General and administrative:
Superintendent and office saiaries....
Light, he.at, power and water.........:
Furniture and equipment replace·
men ts .............,...............,...,...............
Freight and express ............................
Residents supplies................................
Office supplies and printing..............
Telephone and telegraph....................
Operations survey................................
Miscellaneous expense................,.......

Schedule D-1
Distribution of Operating Expense in Detail ·at Decoto
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
MaintenanceFood:
, .. .
Groceries :.'.;•.•............................•...;..,,...,$ 8,197.68
Meats ...................................................... 11,313.21
Fish .................,........................................ 1,039.21
Fruit and vegetables...,........•..:......,..... 10,069.71 •
Butter, milk and eggs.................,......... 16,920.65
Bakers' supplies~ .............................:.... 1,801.16 $ 49,341.62
Kitchen and dining room:
. .
Repairs and maintenance....................$
Expense ..................................................

328.27
483.67

Salaries and wages..........,....................,.,,.
Medical and sundry:
. . ..
Medical supp-lies:...:•...•.~ ........................$ 1,922.os
300.38
Dental· expense................................,, ..,,
663.88
Ear, eye, nose and throat ....................
132.82
Clothing and shoes.....................,..........
Bedding .................................................. 1,144.04
Total maintenance expense....
Hospital ·expense:
Salaries and "wages................................
¥iscellaneous expense........................

4,658.38

745.56
232.90

978.46

270.00
462.66
246.00

978.66

$ 7,231.00
8,572.89
1,171.92
24.82
1,116.68
334.69
516.80
650.00
1,268.65

20,887.45
$128,970.93

Schedule E-1
Statement of Direct Operating Expense in Detail at Covina
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943

22,943.02

4,163.20

$ 77,259.78
1,92.:41

3,978.92

2,124.63

Total operating expenses (Decoto) ......

811.94

$ 14,203.98

569.50

5,832.89

(

14,396.39

Care of children,- .
Food:
Meat ................ ~:-~•.........•:~ ........:>......•.~ ..•$
Fruit and vegetables...........:................
Canned goods.....~ .......:...::.:........:.........
Butter, milk and eggs ......•...................

~:;:~rs ~~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Other groceries................•..•.:...............,
Outside meals..,.................::....:.............

5,670.00
4,005.92
1,312.35
6,200.67
961.17
190.22
1,729.02
3,473.51 $ 23,542.86

764

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDIN.GS OF THE

Care of grounds:

Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries -'····-·····"····'·····'···················"''"
Supplies ......................~ ...........................
Repairs ·and replacements..................

5,613.64
844.19
148.54

· Clothing:
Ready-to-wear .........•............................$ 1,978.62
858.80
Cleaning and repairs ............................
Dry g·oods and notions ........................
110.01

6,606.37

Salaries -k.:. ...-.~..~:._~...... ~; ..........~ .....;.....f
Supplies ...................................... :.....

1,695.05
250.97

1,946.02

General expense :

2,947.43

Gas, water and light....................$ 6,918.25
Automobile expense......................
300.65
Sundry supplies and expense ......
1,732.61
Equipment expense..•.....................
468.24
..•

Laundry:
Salaries -····-······•·························-····'·'···$
Supplies ................................•.................
Repairs and replacements..............'....

1,962.46
388.33
136.99

2,487.78 .

Salaries ··········-····'.····-··························$ 10,445.11
783.93
Supplies ..................................................
3.39
Repairs and replacements..................
Hospital:
Salaries _ ........:......................~.....••........••$ 2,338.11
1,573.00
Doctors and dentists' fees ..................
1,332.50
Medicine and drugs.·-··························
328.63
Other supplies....................................~...
746.50
Outside hospital, x-rays, glasses, etc~
28.92
Repairs and replacements..................

124.77
75.48
214.34
533.76
215.38
323.98

11,232.43

Administrative expense.

•"HE

i: .•

,:.; .~ 7.5,?_~3.92

Total care of children............ ',., 1;

Dormitories:

General expense:
/
School supplies .............~ ........................$
Tonsorial service...........:......................
Toilet accessories..................................
Miscellaneous ........................................
Domestic Scienc~ Cottage .......•........
Automobile expense ..................,..: ........

765

.'
~ i.1 •)
$ 7,541.70 •ninp~:•.

r

Superintendent and office salaries........
Stat_io.~ery, printing and supplies..........
Postage ......................................................... Telephone and telegraph ...............~...::.....

572.8~ ..

285.01·
646.68
149.48
135.39
284.22
81.67
57.95

Traveling expense..:··················:················
Automobile expep~e ..................................
Miscellaneous expense..............................
Freight and exp.resr~···········--·················--··
. Office equipment..........................................
Total administrative expense

9,754.95

Far~ ·e~pense-

6,347.66

1,487.71

Orchard:
Salaries _,.......•..;..:.......;,.......,..,_...:.......:$
Supplies ........................'...........................
Tractor fuel.. ..........................................

608.53
703.00
227.61 $

1,539.14

Poultry:
Sa1aries ~......;........................................;.$
Feed ....................................................... .
Supplies and expense......................•.....
Flock replacements..............................

165.75
580.02
211.35
366.80

1,323.92

General house and property expense:
Power plant:
Salaries .................:....;..,......•............$ 3,130.94
2,476.83
Fuel oil, waste and lubrications..
402.93
Supp lie~ ..............................:.......•.....

Pigs:
Supplies and expense............. _...........

140.71

6,010.70

General farm expense:
Repairs to buildings: (
Salaries ....,............. ~.......:..•..............$ 2,221.44
240.51
Plumbing repairs•.. ~~......:................
1,043.26
Supplies .~ .......... :...............................

Miscellaneous expense ..........:.............

.3,505.21

859.24

Total farm expense..................

3,863.01

Total operating expense (Covina) ........

$ 89,151.88

767

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

766

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND
AUDITOR'S REPORT

Amount of fund, July 31, 1943.............. .:-..... ,..... ~:. ....$1;489,13i:02·-·
Amount of fund, July 31, 1942.............•...- ••....•........ : l,366,23Z.l7 '

September ~l, 1943.
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California,
San Francisco, California.
Gentlemen:
We have audited the accounts and records of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1943, and submit the
'
following statements:

Accounted for as follows:·

.

,.
Cash donations and bequests ...... :················~---··c•, ........,
Securities by donation and bequetit...................... _..
Net profit on securities sold and redeemed ..............

115,209.43
7,502.72
192.70

Exhibit A: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements, (other than •
Lucke~bach Fund-Exhibit C) August 1, 1942, to July 31, 1943.

Net : increase as above ..........................m ......... M::.-:.~.J.<$ 122,904.85

Exhibit B: Statement of Endowment Fund Assets,. as at July 31, 1943.
Schedule B-1: List of regular Endowment Fund Securities on handAcquired prior to July 31, 1942.

Other Endowment Funds
The following funds, which will eventµally become part of the endow~
ment fund, are recorded in the Masonic Homes records.in order to simplify
the' payments on the 'annuity contracts . which both funds carry. A full
report on. these funds is included in our report on the Masonic Homes.

Schedule B-2: List of regular Endowment Fund Securities on hand received and purchased during the fiscal year ended July 31, 1943.
Schedule B-3: Statement of securities sold and redeemed.
Exhibit C: Statement of John an<l Lena Luckenbach Fund as at July 31,
1943.
Exhibit D: Statement of Endowment Fund Income and Capital Accounts.
Comments
Secnrities: (Schedules B-1 and B-2).
All the corporation stocks were received by donation, bond.s. so received are designated . by the letter "D." All donated securities are listed
at market value at the time of donation; securities with no listed market
value are given a nominal value of' $1.00 for purpose of record. Insurance
policies and fraternal death certificates are listed at a nominal value of
$1.00 for co~se~~ative purposes.
Bonds purchased are recorded at cost. As inost bonds carry a h--eavy
premium, an amortization schedule has been provided to . reduce to a
minimum any loss to the endowment fund· when the bonds are redeemed.
Certified lists of the stocks and. bonds were received from the: Ai:i.glo
California National Bank which holds the securities in trust. Securities
as recorded in the books of account were verified to these lists.
Cash
All bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
All interest coupons and checks due were received and accounted for.
The endowment fund income earned during the fiscal year and transferred
to the Masonic Homes General Fund amounted to $43,160.86.
Increase of Fund
The total assets of the Permanent Endowment Fund, which includes
: the regular fund and the Luckenbach Fund, show the following increase
for the. ~~~al year:

George H. and Harriet

c: Wadleigh Annuity.

Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowm~RL~~nuity.
The1 ¥a~onic Hom~s recorcts also sh!?.W it holds several pi,e~es. of.Jeal
estate 'for the account of the 'Endowment Fund. Whenever ··a.· sal~ is
made, the proceeds will be transferred to the Endowment "Fund. •
~erti~c~t,~, . 1
. .We , 1certify that, in our opinion, subject to the foregoing comments,
th~ attached statements set f~rth the conditi~n of the Permanent Endowment Fund a~ at July 31, 1943.

Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL, BURROWS & WEBB,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.
Grand Treasurer's Report-Endowment Fund
Exhibit A
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements (Not Including "Luckenbach Fund" Endowment Account, Exhibit C)
August 1, 1942 to July 31, 1943
Cash in banks, August 1, 1942........... :~.......:........•... ,;...,..:.:A..:..h~: ..;..•.$ 31,020.81
Receipts:
From the Grand Secretary:
Donations from Lodges .. .'..................... $58;574.44
Donations from individuals .......... ,.:.... ,
364.75
Payments ·on property sold 1942. 1943 (front:•bequests)...................... 1,142.26
.Bequests. ·'·"""'"'._ ...................................... 55,127.98 $115,209.43

768

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule B-1
Regular Endowment Fund Securities Acquired Prior to July 31, 1942
On Hand July ·31, 1943

Securities sold and redeemed:
(Exhibit B-3) .
Bonds ........................................................ 2,699.01
100.00
Sto11\l!s ••.....:............................................... .
243.69
Building and loan associations ... .'........

3,042.70

From Masonic Homes for annual amortiza!tion of bond premiums ..................

5,546.12

Bonds: "D" ind!cates bonds received by donation.

Total receipts ............................... ~ ..

$123,798.25

Total to account for .............•................

$154,819.06

Disbursements:
U. S. War Savings Bonds purchased....
Cash in banks, July 31, 1943:
(Savings Account)
Anglo California. National Bank. .....
The San Francisco Bank. ...................

75;000.00

$ 78,582.08
1,236.98.'. $ 79,819.06

Exhibit B
Summary Statement of Endow~ent Fund Assets at at July 31, 1943
Regular Fund:
Cash in savings accounts:
Anglo California N atio~al Bank.,......................$.
The San Francisco Bank...................................•

78,5.82.08
1,236.98 $

79,819.06

Securities (at book value):
(For details refer to Schedules B-1 and B-2)
Boni:is ................................. ~ ...,..............•....•.....•....-$1,345,879.95
Stocks ··-··································································
19,037.75
Miscellaneous ..........................................................
5,981.89
Total book value ..............................................$1,370,899.59
Deduct reserve for amortization of bond
22,470.31
premiums •.............................•...........................
Net book value of securities ......................... .

1,348,429.28

Total regular Endowment Fund and
securities ........................................................... .

$1,428,248.34

Add:
Special Fund-"] ohn and Lena Luckenbach":
(For details refer to Exhibit C)
Cash in bank..•......................................:........~ •....... :$
Securities ......•...". .................................................... .
Grand total Endowment Fund, July 31, 1943 ..... .

769

1,536.54
59,352.14

60,888.78
$1,489,137.12

Alabama, State of, refunding, 3~% •.1964..................$
Alexander Hotel Realty Co~, 6~o/o,'. 1947 .................. *D
Arcata, City of, Water Works, 4%, 1960-61....:.............
American Telephone & Telegraph Co., debent~res,
3%, 1956................·--········································...- -....,..::....
1,000 Beverly Hills, City of,. 40%, 1968.............................•.•
2,000 Beverly Hills, City Hall, 5%, 1968.......................••.•.....••
7,000 Beverly Hills School District, 5%, 1958-67..................
5,000 Bishop Union · High School District, 5%, 1949............
5,000 Burbank High School District, 5%, 1950.............. ·-·-···
3,000 Central Public Utilities Corp., ·20-year income, 5%
1952 .............................................................................. *D
5,000 Chicago Board of Education, 4~%, 1954................. :
5,000 East Bay Municipal Utility District, 5%, 1965-70-1-4
15,000 El Segundo High School District, 5%, 1952-53........... .
18,000 Eureka;· City of, Water, 4%, 1961-2-4-7....................... .
5,000 Fort Bragg Union High School District, 40%, 1951
5,000 Glendale, City of, Sewer, 5%, 1962.............................•
40,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District, 4~%.
1959-61-65-67-71 .............................................................,.
46,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District, 3~%.
. 1959-67-69-70-71 ···················································•··········
2,000 · Huntington Park High School District, 5%, 1955..•...
1,000 Huntington Park School District, 5%, 1956................. .
1,500 Jonothan Club Bldg. Co., liquidating debenture,
1952 .............. ,................................................................. *D
15,000 Knoxville, City of, Water, 4~%. 1961...................... ....
3,000 Long Be'ach, City of, Park, 4%, 1961-65.......................•
Los Angeles, City of:
Dept. of Water & Power, Electric Plant, 3%, 1976
25,000
Electric Plant, 5%, 1961......•.......•......•......•.,..•....••_,...,,.
10,000
Fire Protection, 4~%. 1962.."................•........ ;.......:•.;.,;
1,000
5,000
Harbor Improvements, 4~%, 196~·······-·············-····
High School District, 5%, 1951-59-60-63...............•..
27,000
1,000
lncincerator, 4~%, 1963........................•..•.,.;.•. ;~ ..~....¥.
24,000
School District, 5%, 1961-3-4......•...•..,,.,...•,~--·•·'-·"'··
5,000
Sewage Disposal, 4~%, 1965 ......." ..·'···········..~•--·-···~· ,
Water Works, 4%%, 1968......................_...••..•.:•• _.. _
1,000
10,000
Water Works, 40%, 1965.................'-•··•·•-4·.,,..,••.,....
1,000 Madison, Inc., cumulative income, 1957...............,..•. D
62,000 Metropolitan Water District of Southern California,
4%, 1957-58-65-83........................................................:.. .

$ 25,000
2;000
2,000
100

Book
Value
27,957.50
1.00
5,622.74

100.00
1,269:37
2,731.12
9,244.46
5,159.35
5,749.05
232.50
-6,143.20
7,142.00
16,015.08
22,012.75
5,668.85
6,449.95
47,686.67
53,462.60
2,540.04
1,288.43
1,500.00
16;142.19
3,303.93
26,000.00
11,112.50
1,245.88
5,471.55
29,976.56
1,255.90
28,275.73
5,512.05
1,246.85
10,254.00
1.00
68,257.89

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

770
20,000
"' .

Metropolitan Water District of Southern California,
4)4%, 1975'···············--·'········-····,·:~············.~---~--~.....~ ' •22,601.66
26,815.22
Montecito County Water District, 5%, 1962-66............
1,000 New York Athletic Club, 2nd mortgage, 1938........*D
1.00
25,906.25
25,00P New York City Port Authority, 3%, 1975..- ...... ~......~
ZS,343.75
25,ooe· New York City, Rapid Transit, 3)4%, 1954................
19,040.00
16,000 New York City, Rapid Transit, 4%, . 1977..........•.•..-.
10,710.00
9,000 New York City; various, 4%, 1977.............•...•..._.,.,,...
38,153.10
30,000 New. ):"9.r\c Park, Westchester County, 4%, 1975........
13,4S6.20
10,000 Oaklan.d,: City of, Harbor, 4Y,%, 1966......•.....;...........
19,76S.96
15,000 Oakland, .city of, Sewer, 4Y,%, 1961-2-3-4-5.......::.:.
16,338.7S
15,000 Oxnard Harb.or.. District, 3Y,%, 1962-65.....~:.................
6,687.8S
5,000 Pasadena,. City .of; ..Water; 4~%. 1965......-:····:.;••..,.;.
6,193.11
5,000 Pasadena, City of, San Gabriel Water, 4Y,%, 1963
1,294.ZS
1,000 Paso Robllti Union High School; 5%, 1963................
13,S46.78
13,000 Pawtucket,. R. I,; High School, 3%, 1957..................
2,084.12
2,000 Pawtucket, R. I., Highway, 3%, 1957..:..............:.... _..
10,420.60
10,000 Pawtucket, R. I., Water Plant, 3%, 1957..........·-·-····
5,9S0.66
5,000 Redondo, Bea.ch, City of, Improvements, 5%, 1966....
2,000.00
2,000 Richmond, .City of1 I,mprovements, 5%, 1949-52......
2,613.40
2,000 Sacramertto;, ~iJ:y 9f, fj)tration, Plant, 4Y,%, 1966..:...
6,385,53
5,000 San Bqen~xentttra, ~City of, ·Water, 5%, 1956-7-8-9.•60
6,832.40
5,000 San Diegel; El Capitan Dam, 5%, 1964.. ~ .................. _., ,
San Francisco, City,;artd County of:
15,000.00
15,000
City Han,,,~s%. 1956-57-60..............................................
42,847.49
40,000
Hetch Hetchy, 5~%. 1,954-55....................................•.
6,898.7S
5,000
H.;etch Hetchy, S'fo,:. 1966..............- .......................,.........
S3,303.6S
40,000
Hetch Hetcby, . 4Y.%. 1967-71-2-3-6........•..........,....:.
33,301.SO
25,000
Spring · y~,lleYl .. 40%, 1966-7-9-70........•...................:...
537.SO
537Y,Santa Barbar:a {'.Ciry of, Street, 4Y,%, 1944.•................
1,000 Santa Barbara, r:.City of, Waterworks Tun., 4Y,%,
1,000.00
1948 ....._........'•..~,.,...•...,•.,;................r ......., •••.•-. ••••••.• ••, ••••••••• , .....,
6,987.68
5,000 Santa Cruz, <:;ity _;pf, Water, .5%, 1962-3......................
14,890.69
10,000 Santa Monica, City of, Breakwater, 5%, 1970............
6,122.96
5,000 Santa Monica, City of, Cloverfield, 4Y<(%, 1963.... ~ .....
6,621.39
5,000 Santa Monica ·High School District, 5%, 1959.....:.;....
6,494.63
5~000 Santa Monica School District, 5%; 1960-61.;'···········

Z0,000

24,937.50
Seattle, City of, Light and Power, 3Y,%, 1952-53......
S,307.80
Stockton; City of, Harbor, 4Y,%, 1959................:.......
500.00
Terra Bella Irrigation District, 4%, 1979.......:........ D
44,000.00
U. S. A. Defense Bonds, Series G, 2Y.%, 19S3-S4......
U.S. A. Treasury Bonds, 2~.1%, 1954-58...................... 242,S46.25
University Masonic Temple Ass'n, 2nd Mtg., 3%,
100.00
1949 ····-'··--···········-···::·_,.,.....;...,.::.,.....•...~.••.:•..:....:~:..:·D
37,608.65
30,000 Vernon, City of, Light and Power, 4~%. 1961-63....

25,000
5,000
500
44,000
238,000
100

.Total bonds acquired prior to July 31, 1942.............•..$~,26.7,179.70
(*) Note: Not paying interest.

GR'AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Stocks (donated) :

Shares

771
Book

Valt4e

10

American Teltphorte and Telegraph Co...:...........-.::......-.:....$ 1,066.00
Bakersfield Masonic Temple Ass'n .....,...............: _____. ....J
9.00
Baricamerica-Blair (",)tp... ...... . . ................................. .. •
1.00
43
193.50
California '.Ice & Cold Storage Co.; Class A -··········'·······
21
California Ice & Cold Storage Co.; Class B ··-···-·--··-*
10.SO
lS
·Central Public Service Co., preferred..........'.........;...,,.,_::..* · 82S.OO
60
Central Public Utilities Corp.; common_:......:.......:.;....._:..•
12.50
20
Central Public Utilities Corp., preferred....................•....••.*
40.00
100
Consolidated Rock Products, preferred.............::..:....:......:;:•
1,00
s Eastern. Public Serviee Corp., Class A, common............,.*
1.00'
20
First National Trust & Savings Bank of San Diego; pfd.
250.00
76/100 Gardenia Liquidating '. Corp., common.................'........:.....,•
1.00
3
Geyser Development Co.; pref¢rred...........-..,::......,:·.~:.~~;:.....*
lS.00
10
Healdsburg General Hospital, Inc., preferred:............;......c:•
10.00
12Y,
Home Service Corp., Class· B, common.........:........:,.......:•
1.00
S9
McCormack Lumber Co., Charles R.:, commori.................c*
10.00
10
1.00
Masonic Temple Ass'n of California -''·'·--·········'··'····''"·····'_.·
7
1.00
Needles Masonic Temple Ass.'rt.':,............•..~·:.............:.~.'-~-~::.*
4/10 M. Nirenberg Sons, Inc.; Class · A .........................................*
1.00
6/10 M. Nirenberg' Sons, Inc.; ,Class B...-.....>....•.:..........:;.i:.•,..:·, .•.;•
1.00
lS
Oklahoma National Gas· Co., 3%, preferred............:.....;..~;,
431.ZS
16
Oklahoma National Gas Co., common....................................
1.00
482
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6%, preferi-eci......:........:.::.. :~:~ ... 13,i7S.OO
96
Pacific Gas & f:lectric Co.; SY,%, preferred.........:....::........ · 2,430.00
17
Pennsylvania R. R. Co., common...:........................................
3S7.00
10
·Peoples Light & Power Corp., preferred.•...........•,.....~, ..,,.,* .
1.00
10
Schulte United Sc to $1.00 Stores, Inc., preferred............*
2.00
ZS
Skaggs Springs Oil & Gas Company..................................*
1.00
S62
Sotoyomi Vineyards.............:....................•...........;:.......•..;...,...,,•
1.00
4
Southern California Edison Co.• SY,%, preferred........;.:.:...
100.00
4
Southern California Edison Co., commoit....•............... ..,.~....
· 80.00
10
Splitdorf Electrical Company................................................•
1.00
14
Standard Public Service Co., preferred:......................:...•"·~·
1.00
1
Sun Drug Company, preferred...............- .•:.........:........:•..;,:!,'*
·LOO
2
United Stores Corporation, common...........................~ ........*
LOO
10
Universal Chain Theatres, Corp., common..........................*
1.00
9
2

Total stocks (acquired prior to July 31, 1942) .......... ~ .....'..$1'9,034.7·5
(*) Note: No dividends received. ·
Miscellaneous Securities, Etc.
Fraternal Death Certificates:*

Cert'ificates
3 Aahmes Temple Shrine Association @ $100 par $ 3.00.
1 Aahmes Temple Shrine Association @ SO par
1.00
10 Al Malaikah Auditorium Co.
@ 100 par 10.00
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund.................................·-·-•'"•""· 1.00

Book

Value

772

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic Temple Association of
Sacramento
@ 100 par
1.00
1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. .2 @
20 par 1.00 $
. ..
Insurance Policies:*
$ 500 New York Life Insurance Co.-..................•...$ 1.00
250 Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York...... 1.00
1,000 State Life Insurance Co. .•.............................. 1.00
1,000 Independent Order of Foresters.................... 1.00 $
Miscellaneous I terns:
Certificate of Deposit, $8,400, Summer Lake Irri·gation District Bonds:.~......:..,.....................,,•......:..•... ·
,. Assignment of claim, Columbian Building and
Loan Association............:...........:.........:.......................
Assignment of claim, Pacific Coast Building and
Loan Association*...........•.........•..................................
Real property (at assessed value):
Arlington lot, San Diego County............................$90.00
Lot 262, Tract 7741, Los Angeles County............ 55.00
Total miscellaneous securities acquired prior •to
July 31, 1942........ '·····-·····'··············.··················•····•
Total securities acquired prior to July 31, 1942................
(*) N o.te: Valued at nominal v~lue for purpose ,of record.

17.00

4.00

250.00
1,765.42
1.00

145.00

$

2,182.42

$1,288,396.87

Securities Received and Purchased During the Fiscal
Year Ended July 31, 1943
Book
Value

. Bonds purchased:
$75,000 United States War Savings, Series G,
2Y,%, 1955..............-.................................................
Donations and bequests:
From lodges and individuals:
United States War Savings Bonds, and
,. · · ·Stamps "exclra11ged for bonds; $5,000 maturity value, Series F, due 195'4-55............
From Arthur Crites:
3 shares Bakersfield Masonic Temple Association sto.ck.....................·-··•·············-··············
From Masonic Homes of California:
10 shares Masonic Temple Association of
California stock..............:...................................
From Estate of Mrs. Annie Gibson:
Proceeds of sale of real property received in
1941 ············-······-····;·~·-·····-·-····················~--:.;...$
Less, down payments, · subsequent payments

773

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$

75,000.00

$

3,700.25

2.00

1.00

4,941.73
1,142.26

Balance due on notes, July 31, 1943................

3,799.47

Total donations and bequesfs............................

7,502.72

Total acquisitions for the year 1942-43............
Total acquired prior to July 31, 1942
(Schedule B-1) ................,................................

82,502.72

.

Total securities on hand, July 31, . 1943............

1,288,396.87
$1,370,899.59

SUMMARY
Bonds:
Ac9uired prior yea~s-...:...............~..........:...........-$1,267,179.70
Purchased during 1942-43......................................
75,000.00
Donated during 1942-43..................:.....................
3,700.25 $1,345,879.95
Stocks:
19,0~4.75
Acquired prior years .............. ~················-·············
19,037.75
3.00
Donated during 1942-43_..•:··············.-···········•···········
Miscellaneous:
2,182.42
Acquired prior years,,............................................
5,981.89
Bequests during 1942~43.~ ......................................
3,799.47
Total, as a~ove .........~.........~ .....:...............................

$1,370,899.59

Schedule B-3
Statement of Securities Redeemed and Sold During the Fiscal
Year Ended July 31, 1943
Net
Bonds
Proceeds
$1,000 Imperial Irrigation District, called......................, .....................$ 999.67
' 1,075 Santa Barbara, City of, Street, matured.................................... 1,074.67
625 Upland, ·City of, matured..,...-.................................................... 624.67
Stocks:
50.00
5 shares Altadena Masonic Temple.................................,...............•
50.00
1 share Taft Masonic Temple....................................................,7........
Liquidating dividends received:
3.29
Gardena Liquidating Corp ................................. _......_..................••..•...,.
Pacific Coast Building and Loan Association................................ 240.40
Tot~! .

. . .. . .. ... $.1,1}42.70

Exhibit C
Statement of "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund" July 31, 1943
$60,888.68
Balance in fund, july 31, 1943..........................
Composition of Fund
Cash jri savings account:
Anglo California National Bank............

$ 1,536.54 .

774

Capital account:

Cost
Securities:
$ 3,000 Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District Bonds, 3~%.
1971 ---···-·-··'"········-·-······:····-··-':.....$ 3,423.78
1,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water
Bonds, 4%, 1941...........:,............. l,167.S8
S,000 Metropolitan Water District of
Southern California Bonds,
\ ' 4%, 196S-86..............~ ..........:......'....' 9,060.9S
lS,000 New York City, various bonds,
474%. 1960.........•.......:::.....:.,.......... 17,17S.OO
9,000 Northern Pacific Railway Co.,
General Lien Bonds, 3%, 2047 7,290.00
10,000 Southern Paeific R. R. Co., First
: ·a nd Refunding Mortgage
bonds, 4%; 19SS............................ 10,6S0.00
1,000 ·u ..S. A. Savings Defense Bonds,
Series G, 20%, 19S4.................. 1,000.00
100 Shares W.est Penn Electric Co.
Class A stock.................,...~......~~-- 10,480.8S

Regular

Luckenbach

Total

Bafance August 11 194L... ,...............$1130S,343.49 $60,888.68 $1,366,232.17

Additions to funds:
From donations and bequests:
Cash (Exhibit A)........................
Securities (Schedule B-2)........

llS,209.43
7,S02.72

llS,209.43
7,S02.72

Total ........... _.-..:......._.....•....................$ 122,712.lS

$ 122,712.lS

Profit from sales of securities :
Proceeds ......................................$
Less book value..........................

4,184.96
3,992.26

$.

4,184.96
3,992.26

192.70

$

192.70

x
Net profit.._..............•.........................$

. Total cost .... ~...:...:..............................$60,248.16
Deduct reserve for amortization
of bond premiums........................
896.02

..

77S

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Total addition to funds ..................$ 122,904.8S

$ 122,904.8S

.,

N e.t book val.u e of s~~.~ritie§!f.-~ ..
Total Luckenbach Fund, cash
and securities, as above ............

S9,3S2.l4

Balance ] uly 31, · 1943..........................$1,428,248.34 $60,888.68 $1,489,137.02
$60,888.68

• .• 1

Exhibit D
State of Endowment Income and Capital Accounts for the
·
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1943
Income account:
Income received from Endowment Fund investments:
From regular fuhd...........•................................................$46,364.04
,From Luckenbach Fund....................... ~........................ 2,S20.98 $48,88S.02

PER CAP IT A TAX
The per capita tax for the year August 1, 19~3-J uly Ji; J944, was
recommended as follows and approved by Grand Lodge: ·
'·
Grand Lodge constitutional requirement......................$ .SO
Masonic ~omes constitutional requirement..................

.so·

Masonic Homes maintenance special levy.................... .20
~

Grand Lodge activities special levy.................................. .SS
Deduct, annual amortization . of bond premium rest'ored -to end.owment capital:
itcgular fund securities........-..,:...,....:............. ;.~~~'.............$ S,S46:12
Luckenbach fund seciµ-ities-',-:···,":'.·····':-········-,··············
178.04 $ S,724.16
Net income transferred to the Hom~s -~en,eral fund ..:.

$43,160.86

Total

. .. ... ....... .. .. ....... $1.75

This levy will be paid with the annual returns due August 1, 1944,
and will then be available for use during the fiscal year, August 1, 1944
-July 31, 194S.

776

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BUDGET
Income
Appropriations
Dues
from
Lodges,
Etc.....$101,182.00
Activities· Committee .•........$ 2,000.00
Annual Communication ."..... 1,500.00 Interest and Dividends ...... ·15,000.00
200.00 Loans Repaid ........................ 2,500.00
Audit ························'-·····-·······
300:00
Board of Control ..................
125,00 Total ........................................$l18;~
Bonds and Insurance ......... .
500.00
Constitution Month ........... .
250.00
Correspondence Committee
Employment Bureaus .......... 14,100.00
Endowment Board ............. . 3,100.00
600.00
Grand Lecturer Salary ....... .
500.00
Lodge Officers Exp.
600.00
Master, Misc. Exp.
300.00
"
Master, Pre.sent ..... .
Master Travel E;i!:p. 5,000.00
300.00
Organist, Gr'd Tiler
660.00
J:reasurer Expense..
100.00
History Cpmmittee ......:...... .
750.00
Information Committee ..... .
Inspectors Aprons and
750.00
Stationery ......................... .
Inspectors Expense ............. . 1,000.00
Office &J.uipment ................ . 250.00 .
650.00 '
Supplies, Sundries ..
P. G. M. Portraits ........... . 1,000.00
Pay of Members ................. . 16,645.00
Postage · and Express .......... 1,250.00
Printing .•........................ ,...... . 7,500.00
600.00
Public Schools Week ......... .
Relief by Grand Lodge ...... 4,$00.00
"
"
"
Master ... . 2,000.00
Relief Boards,
236.00
Reimbursements ............... .
Rent ........................................ 4,500.00
1,600.00
Ritual Committee Expense
Salaries ..,.................•............. 13,980.00
500.00
Ta;x:es, Social Security ......
"
Unemployment ...... . 1,200.00
750.00
Telephone and Telegraph ..
University Club Houses .... 13,403.00
500.00
Veteran Buttons ..........•.......
· Contingent Expenses ......... . 6,500.00
Legal Expense ..................... . 1,000,.00
Emergency War Fund ....... . 10,000.00 Estimated Expenditure ......$141,532.93
Refund to War Relief Fund 20,393.93 Estimated Income ................ 118,682.00
Total ........ :: ...... ,.......................$141,532.93

Excess Exp. over Income....$ 22,850.93

STATISTICAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS

Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment · Fund
Annual Returns 1943

Report of Contributions to Endowment Fund

No.

Name

Membership

1939

1940

1941

1942

1943

1 California ....................... 572 $118.50 $
$ 15.00 $ 20.50 $ 45.50
19.50
21.00
2 Western Star .................. 106
25.50
40.00
56.00
69.50
83.90
3 Tehama................,......-:... 469 264.58 135.50
20.00
5 Benicia..·-····-·····-··-········ 134
58.00
314.50
335.00
8 Tuolumne......................... 202 ' 14.50
36.00
74.50
33.00
19.50
126.00
9 Corinthian ................·-····· 261
57.00
37.00
26.00
10 San lose........................... 425
63.50 ' 103.50
12 Yount................................. 267
13 Nevada................·-·········- 126
5.00 . 24.50
6.00
13.00
46.50
14 Temple; ............................. 103
2.00
16 Eureka ............................... 185
4.50
8.50
3.00
3.00
17.50
17 La Parfaite Union.......... 130
18 Mountain Shade............. 40
281.6i
66.00 247.50
19 San Joaquin..................... 549 138.58 101.04

778

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mem1943
1942
1941
1940
bership 1939
Name
27.00
S4.00
94.SO
104.SO
143.00
SlO
Washington......................
820.00
622.SO
Hawaiian...·-··········-···-·· 337 434.00 - 418.S4 490.70
188.SO
124.SO 110.SO
Occidental...............·-····- 726
31.SO
30.00
2S.OO
27.SS
24.00
211
Madison............................
30.50
62.SO
21.SO
lS.SO
Mariposa........................... 1S9
11.00
lS.00
62
Georgetown.........·-····-···
184.00
13.0S
S.00
22.20
El Dorado...........:..........• 180
2S.OO
lS.00
20.00
lS.00
Trinity····-·····-·····-··········--- 101
3.00
78.00
63.SO
33.SO
46.SO
Golden Gate...·-····-··----·· 627
183.00
92
Gold Hill-..·-·····-····-·····
31.00
2S.SO
24.00
31.00
Ophir................................. 44
276.7S l,2S2.2S
119.60.
1S2.S2
171.SO
Sl2
San Diego...·-·······•··-···18.00
6.00
3.00
17.00
Howard.........·-·- ·······-····· 188
41.00
18.00
78.SO
13.SO 333.SO
Santa Cruz.·-·················· 32S
48.04
66.00
34.SO
64.SO
71.SO
Sacramento...................... S21
7.SO
S7.79
38.SO
39.0S
21.00
222
Martinez..........--········--·
6S.OO
70.00
Los Angeles.................-.. 662 1S2.00 188.SO 130.7S
Hi.ram................ _.............. S2
3S.00
10.SO
28.00
lS.00
Mount Moriah............... 383
·102s
2.00
Crescent......·-··················· 133
S.00
S.00
Texas................................. 40
S0.00
S0.00
Sl.00
S0.00
S6
so Forbestown....·-···············
Sl Illinoistown...................... 6S
S5 Suisun............................... 121
S6 Volcano...............·-··········· 3S
26.00
32.03
2S.OO
62.67
S7 Santa Rosa"······-·-·········· 390
S01.2S
106.00
113.00
26.17
53.SO
S08
Union
............................
_
..
58
S9 Gravel Range ....·-·········· 46
136.00
76.00
94.00
61.2S
71.00
60 Plumas.........·-···············-· 100
851.00
502.00
477.SO
98S.OO
S18.2S
901
61 Live Oak...·-··········-····-··
91.SO
71.00
S7.1S
36.00
S2.SO
64 "Natoma...........................- 12S
48.00
4S.OO
119.00
6S Amador............................. 70
2S.OO
66 Forest................................ 42
663.40
87.14 288.30
6S.OS
92.68
68 Morning Star..........·-····· 422
70 Enterprise........................ 208
4.50
2.00
76 Bear Mountain.........·-··· 67
48.00
73
7R Calaveras......................- ..
8.90
6.SO
3.SO
6.60
25.30
79 Humboldt.....-·········--·-· 309
S.00
5.00
71
Io11e
..........•...
_
......
~--~'-····80
81 Yolo.........·-··········-··--····· 52
15.00
46.50
16.00
25.00
. 84 Vesper............:........·-····- 160
199.50 22S.i'S '1,725.50
2.50
•
171.3S
NavaL
.................
,
.............
644
87
S.00
5.00
89 Rose's Bar....................... 35
91 North Star...............·-···· 41
3.00
"3.20
3.00
3.00
2.10
93 St. Helena....................... 77
lS.00
7.10
5.00
52
Clay
...........
:
.........
9S Henry
57.00
2.SO
98 'Hornitos...·-··········-·····-·- 78
318.00
62.00 22S.OO
72.2S
167.00
Yosemite
...........................
250
99
64.SO
33.SO
33.00 . 16.50
37.00
101 Clay......................- ..........• 63
1.00
3.00
8.00
3.00
10.00
103 Oroville....- ............:.......... 243
75.00
7S.OO
140.00
70.00
70.00
186
Lexington
.........................
104
8.00
10.00
20.00
25.00
106 Arcata.:.............:............-. 188
60.87
28.00
21.00
110 Pajaro.....•........:............._ 233
6.20
40.73
111 Qi.ico.:...:........................._ 309

No.
20
21
22
23
24
2S
26
27
30
32
33
3S
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
4S
46

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MemNo.
Name
bership
112 Summit...........•············-···· 41
113 · Eden....·-···-·········-····-····· 207
117 Concord..........•.........·-····· 238
120 Fidelity..............:......._....• S27
122 Alamo..:.·-···-····--·-·· 142
123 Sotoyome·.···-········--····-·· 146
124 Table Mountain.............. 97
126 Lafayette...............·-········ 17S
127 Hermann.........·-·········-·· 201
128 Visalia............................... 319
129 Nicolaus..................:.;..•..... 81
131 Woodbridge.........·-····-··· 106
132 Sinceritj........................... 82
134 Vacaville........................... 141
13S Valley..........- ..·-····-····---- 61
136 Pacific...............·---··-····-· S82.
139 Crockett.........·-····-·········· S73
140 Curtis..................:;··-····- 60
141 Grafton....- ......:..~-··········· 66
143 Franklin...........·-·············· 88
144 Oriental....·-·············-······ 400
14S Vitruvius......................- .. 97
146 Abell.............................:.... 1S6
147 Eel River..........- ..:·-········ 168
149 Lassen....•·····-··········--····· lSS
lSO Molino................-··········-· 107
1S6 Woodland....-·········-······· 241
161 Keyston.e........................... 24
164 Harmony:........·-····-····-·· lS
166 Excelsior.......................... .498
167 Alameda......................- .... 124
168 Redwood City...·-····--.. 279
..
169 M"1ss1on.,
.......-····-··--·· 673
173 Elk Grove...·-··········-····· 113
174 Drytown......................- ..• 28
17S Antioch....- ..........._'.··--··- 136
178 Phoenix............................. 461
179 Mendocino................- ...... ·118
180 Petaluma................- .......: 263
181 Russian River................. 98
182 Arbuckle........................... 73
183 Clear Lake...·-···-:···--· 42
184 Sierra Valley..........-····- 32
18S Oaiborne.......................... so
186 Evening ' Star........·-······· 42
187 Keith....·-·····················-··:· 137
188 Oakland............................ 7S5
190 Northern Light.......·-····' 79
191 Marin-·············-····:-···-··· 431
192 Santa Barbara.•.·-····-···· 212
193 ·F erndale............:............... 122
194 Mountain View....______ 178
19S Buckeye.~ .......................... 101
196 San Simeon....:....._,.........··100

1939
24.00

IS.00

1940

779

26.S3
14.SO
30.00
lS.SO

1941
9.SO
16.37
120.00
22.SO
10.00

71.00
23.00
11.00

1.78
18.00
87.00
69.SO
lS.00

1942
1.00
18.00
109.SO .
10.00
64.SO

1943
28.S6
138.50
10,00

so.so
1.00

78.40
74.2S r

...

139.71
17.7S

139.00
687.SO
S.00

..

12.10
11.00

S4.00
6.00
lS.SO
30.00
180.00
S.00

4S.SO
9.SO
30.00
122.00

3.00

6.00
20.00
27.00.
27.00
7S.QO
22.00
14.00

3S.SO
28.SO

1S7.00
36.00

38.00
210.00
8.00

Sl.00
13S.OO
28.SO
6iOO
19.7S

8.00
11.00
,14.00
12.04

43.00

2.00
26.48

8.00
16.80

2S.OO
88.00
25.00
134.SO
211.00
5.00
24.13
76.SO

197.SO
77.00
20.00

30.00
S.50

42.00
7.SO

lS.00
3.00
S6.00
47.00
71.00
6.00
14.00
49.SO
6.60
20.00
3.SO

20.00

8.00
20.00

696.SO

192.67

64.00
25.50

56.02
25.50

·197.00
10.00
67.30
3S.00

7.08

S.00

SZ.00

24.50

1.00
185.50
33.S5 .
3.SO
4.00

4.00
20.SO
66.95

..
33.00

7.5o.
76.SO
S0.00

23.SO
. 12.91
62.00

17.50
7S.50

6S.OO
194.00
107.00
6.00
73.00
274.00

22.SO
18.7S

24.SO
18.7S

13.00

8.00

20.00
299.00
43.50
126.02
174.00
68.50
70.00

782
Nci.
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
. 330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Membership 1939
Natne '
16.00
AlisaL.:..............- ..- ..-.:.._ 102
38.50,
Alhambra..........-····--··-·· 384
Whittier·-·······-····-·········· 448 517.79
Corona...·-···-·..······--··- 446
Consuelo.:......-··········-··-· 153
Needies.......................,...... 216
Long Beach....-.,...:...._... 485
19.50
Redondo.................- ........: 201
72.00
Vallee de France............ 117
Kilauea..·-················-·····- 178 588.25
Pacific Grove...·-··········· 156
San Pedro..........·-·········· 425 180.50
30.00
Alta.......:...............·--····· 62
Covina..·-············-··········-· 192
West Gate......:_............... 763 233.50
28.00
Fruitvale.............:............. 749
48.50
Carquinez......................-. 147
3.00
San Jacinto....-····-·····-·· 77
F ullertort..........-··········-··· 328
43.00
Oxnard..................:.........• 221
San Fernando................. 246 185.00
19.00
Starr King.:.................... 511
10.00
Brentwood........................ 71
13.00
Palo Alto......................... 451
McKinley..........:.............. 299
63.50
San Bernardino.............. 495
Sequoia...............~·-···-····• :-857 109.00
Palestine........................... 484
57.00
SunscL;..........:.......:.......... 367
15.00
Pinole................·-·········-·· 125
71.00
Presidio.........·--··--··-···· 4P5
26.00
Hollywood........~..:....____ 717
33.00
Mill Valley...·-················ 299
23.00
Buena Park...._ .............. 121
Golden State.................... 782 130.00
4.75
Loyalton............................ 71
65.00
San Francisco................. 334
Fort Bragg.........·-···-···· 93
Charit~···············-············ 109
45.00
Berkeley......................- ... 488
Willits ....-...·-··········-···-- 126
Las Palmas...................... 625 122.35
72.50
South Pasadena............. 459
57.00
Unity.......................-·......... 354
Ocean Park.....:............-.. 309 198.00
Amity..............,.......- ..:..... 451
le Progres de L'Oceanie 364 364.50
28.00
Gardena............................ 150
We.st Los Angeles ...... 194 105.00
6.00
J ewe! ................_........:....- 128
Richmond ..........--········-· 542 157.00
Francis Drake................ 189 129.50
8.25
Artesia..:.............·-·········- 77
36.00
.Mizpah.............................. 338

1940
. 37.00
78.00
217.71
80.00
103.00
61.00
81.00
645.00
12.75
198.00
24.25

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1941
29.00
92.00
191.81
51.00
20.00
184.50
4,3.75
62.00
63.00
587.00
14.50
213.00
17.50·

152.49 286.00
18.50
55.50 . 31.00
5.25
73.50
91.02
39.00
81.00 124.00
16.50
26.00
11.55
8.75

1942
24.00
84.50
125.02
72.50
187.00
.. 88.00
100.75
90;00
346.00
10.75
252.00
25.00.
47.50
70.50
64.50
27.00
14.50
244.00
61.SQ
84.00.
85.00
5.00

1943
129.00
311.00
537.41
205.00
15.00
53.00
313.00
71.75
163.50
537.50
33.50
379.50
43.00
110.00
602.00
97.00
83.00
18.00
125.00
122.50
258;50
148.00
28.00
29.00

62.54
82.50

120.00
208.00

65.50
45.75

17.00
15.00
58.00
12.00
49.75
6.00
109.00
2.00
28.00

24.50
15.00
10.00
13.00
65.20
14.00
111.25
12.00
60.50

184.25
15.00
54.50
47.00
100.50
9.00
278.50
4.00
64.65

54.00

22.00
146.50

30.00
20.00

92.50
268.00
219.00 394.00
26.50
66.00
79.16
62.00
41.50
41.50
405.50 597.00
90.00
46.00
61.00
62.00
7.00
10.00
43.50 122.00
31.00 . 41.50
44.20
6.35
421.00
1~.75

20.00
110.50
103.50
358.50

38.00
190.00
50.00
82.50
1.1.00
272.00
80.50
50.00
10.00
138.50
107.77

137.50
928.00
85.00
303.50
15.00
58.00
202.75
26.50
565.50
4.5.0
235.0G

1,227.50
107.00
80.50
16.00
99.50
82.00
642.7~

Mem1941 .
Name
bership 1939
1940
379 Fillmore..........- ................ 150
47.00
57.50
57.00
380 Huntington Beach.......... 243
44.60
80.50
45.74
. 381 Oceanside..:...................... 116
382 Highland Park............... 415
77.00
67.00 1,047.00
383 Orosi.........·-··········-········· 81
19.00
10.00
7.00
384 El Centro.........---····· 285
38.50
26.50
53.50
385 Dinuba............................... 170
30.00
387 Coalirtga.....-·········-·········· 251 101.00
'26.00
388 Parnassus.....'.................... 621
30.85
43.05
389 Palos Verdes................... 522 128.00
85.14
51.75
390 Imperial...,........- ........- .... 68
7.50
8.00
391 East Belt....._.,..... _......_. 63
15.50
12.00
5.50
392 West Lake...·-·······-·-···.. 939 254.60 330.55 167.55,
393 Balder................- ............. 456
62.50
44.00
394 University"········-············ 476
62.00
56.00
82.50
395 Turlock................- ........... 182
19.50
17.00
20.00
396 Apollo.:..............- •...........•. 352
24.00
54.50
61.00
397 Rising Light...-····-··-·· 540
42.50 125.10 153.87
399 Fraternity...............·-····-· .368
5.00
33.50
4-00 Burlingame..........-····-···· 388
68.00 110.00
80.50
4-01 Bay View......................... 307
2.00
402 Brawley....- ...····-···········.. 119
12.00
403 Yerba Buena................... 439 127.56 157.61 157.42
404 Glepdora........................... 91
22.00
4.00
405 Moneta....:......................... 617 111.00
70.00
406 Burbank.....~······ ..············· 281
20.07 144.00 214.00
407 La Mesa.....................·-··· 147
15.81
25.00
408 Sierra Madre.................. 80
2.00
409 Honolulu..........- ............... 224 238.00 244.00 208.50
410 Charter Rock................... 362
73.00
60.00
49.00
411 Perris......'......................- .. 75
31.00
10.00
412 Calexico.....- ..................... 129
5.00
413 Waucoba........................... 42
16,00
15.00
8.00
414 Arlington.......................... 298 122.00 115.50 104.00 .
415 Silver Trowel....-........... 298
97.00
30.00
73:00
416 Lindsay·········'-····:···-······ 145
42.00
9.00
8.00
417 Clovis................................ 242
18.50
418 Elysian.............................. 411 225.00 126.00
60.50
419 Upland................-··-····-· 134
420 Kerman ............................. 50
4.50
7.00
1.05
421 Inglewood......................... 297
65.00
40.25
56.00
422 Eagle Rock ................·-··· 253
40.00
30.50
51.50
423 York........................•.......•• 176
33.51
47.94
28.42
424 Exeter....,.......................... 163 142.00 138.50 166.00
45.60
41.50
425 Holtv.ille....._...................... 79
90.50
28.45
58.11
426 Midway .....................,........ 337
2.00
427 Chino Valley................... 57
428 San Dimas....................... 103
25.00
5.00
429 Pittsburg..........-···-··-·-· 149 .
6.67
430 Mc Cloud............................ 102 120.73 139.00
97.17
431 ·Alpha,.........·-··········----... 383
26.00
29.00
10.00
39.00
433 Hammonton..................... 66
32.00
434 Maricopa....................- ...• 150
56.65
37.64
33.50
435 Fairmount...·-····-···-······· 477
12.10
40.65
19.10
No.

783
1942
67.50

1943
147.00

43.00
16.00
5.00
10.00
66.00
44.50
86.83
13.25
8.50
365.20
33.00
74.37
20.00
62.00
5.00
10.00
261.50
4.00
16.00
20.80

192.68

322.50
85.50
313.00
51.00
246.00
81.00
12.00
516.50
85.00
206.60
43.75
117.50
832.50
29.50
408.00
24.00
73.00
237.75

20.50
91.00
10.00
20.00
305.00
64.00

1,053.50
817.00
105.00
17.00
493.00
102.50
317.00
30~00

174.00
265.50
93.25
50.00
19.50
52.50
6.00 .
22.50
157.50
225.00
178.00
3.50
17.00
23.00
76.00 , 193.00
165.00
46.50
56.31
113.00
38LOO
175.00
178.00
27.50
25.27
29.97
40.00
69.00
12.00
38.30 '
3.00
18.90

60.00
15.51
153.50.
70.00
70.00
138.10
38.00

.

784
No.

436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490

•GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mem1940
bership 1939
Name
93
Claremont......................-.
46.00 . . 27.00
Lancaster··············--····-- 115
61
34.00
31.00
Acacia...·-·························
17.00
29.00
Tyrian ....·-···-···--··········-· 93
4.50
25.50
Standard........................... 285
6.00
10.00
Coronado.......................... 175
Blackmer..................- ...... 503 175.25 105.50
66.10
75.00
Schofield.....................·-··· 198
91.56
38.15
Carpinteria.........·-··········· 76
46.00 147.00
Wilshire...............·-········ 508
16.00
La Puente......................_. 67
50.00
57.00
Torrance......................- ... 198
7.00
15.50
Mount Diablo.........·-····· 153
17.00
7.50
Park..................•..·-·········· 408
66.50
Van N uys...·-····-····-······ 264
16.00
68.38
Montebello......................: 235
4.00
San Pasqual..........- ......... 336
93.50
85.50
Bethlehem......................... 292
-10.00
3.00
Crocker.........·-··········-····· 288
47.50
Golden West.............- ..... 445
29.50
Ramona............................. 205
43.00
23.00
Henry S. Orme.....~....... 511
Riverbank......................_. 80
14.00
5.00
Mount Oso...................... 199
37.00
27.00
Argonaut.........·-····-··--·· 344
43.11
Paul Revere...._............. 441
24.71
16.09
Morgan Hill................... 97
44.00
26.33
Alta Vista..............·-······· 270
40.45
31.00
Center................._............. 338
68.90
56.50
Libertas...·-······················· 253
22.50 136.50
Culver City...................... 185
4.50
Rockridge................·-······ 353
23.50
15.00
Yorba Linda.................... 84
Lincoln............".....•............ 256 324.50 253.00
83.46
Delta............•···-··········-·- 298
Maui...............·-·········-·- 130 800.00 268.00
Blythe........·-·····-······--.. 43
19.40
Victory....·-···-····--········- 193
94.00
America.....................·-···· 354 130.40
25.00
21.50
Coachella.......................... 85
48.11
Temblor...:........................ 116
4.00
15.00
Thousand Oaks........:..... 310
Golden Rule.................... 367
Fellowship...........t •••••••••• - 196
17.00
Mt. Davidson.................. 280
45.00
40.00
Oarence F. Smith........ 250
156.35
:Bell................................-- 218 118.61
24.00
27.50
Albert Pike...............·-··· 197
Chowchilla...·-····-····-····- 62
35.75
50.00
Caledonia..........-···-····-·· 204
26.50
31.00
Vallejo......................---··- 230
Patterson................·-········ 63
9.00
20.00
East Bay;·······--····M-----· 254
Corcoran...·-················-··· 72

1941
4.00
70.00
19.00
15.50
90.00
55.75
25.00
27.00

1942

1943

9.35
66.50
63.50
32.75
42.75
14.50
96.00
61.75

94.50
84.00
88.00
76.50
75.00
29.00
233.50
197.00
24.00
340.35
20.10
176.61

13.50

28.35. 35.00
13.00
20.00
9.00 ' 24.00
25.00
29.50
48.00
44.00
118.00
71.50 105.00
5.00
6.25
30.00
107.75
7.00
10.00
52.00
58.95
11.88
13.00
29.00
102.21
27.00
2.00
29.00
284.50
20.66
220.00
63.00
17.00
25.56
47.64

7.00
166.75
15.00
11.00
101.00
. 83.50
56.25
2.30
47.25
78.00
43.00
16.00
315.00
38.46
144.00
256.50
19.50
19.00
41.00

31.00
156.58
152.25
300.00
173.50
35.00
16.00
482.00
20.00
153.00
231.00
51.50
35.00
111.00
301.50
101.00
22.00
303.00
173.00
379.00
109.00
10.00
129.50
207.48

13.31
19.50
40.00
202.83
29.00

7.00
145.00
203.72
18.00

30.20
58.60
222.4(1
84.00

117.64
32.25

100.35
36.00

119.00
168.25

31.50

35.50

61.25
54.25

No.

Name

Membership

1939
1940
491 Woodstock................-····- 172
10.00
51.50
492 Garvanza.,....................... _ 159
493 Atascadero....................... 61
26.00
25.00
494 Acorn ..........;.:...:.·-·-··-···· 354
17.00
30.50
495 Lebanon........·-················ 309
2.00
3.00
496 Riverdale............ ~............. 59
497 Fremont.........- ................. 306
5.00
3.50
498 Stockton.......•................... 122
36.50
499 Capital City..................... 203
76.00
12.00
. 5.00
500 Roosevelt.......................... 137
2.00
501 Westwood................-....... 196
502 Harbor.............................. 164
503 Point.....................·-·········· 92
28.00
56.68
504 Seaside.........:.................._ 290
505 Silver Cord...................... 291
16.00
506 Mount Olive.................... 610 884.80 555.30
507 El Segundo...................... 168
61.00
35.00
5.00
508 Joppa................................. 50
23.00
509 Benjamin Franklin........ 208
510 Cupertino.....·-·················· 80
511 Sunnyvale......................... 113
512 Palms................................ 180
40.96
513 Cahuenga.............~---········ 299
7.50
514 Ar.e:onne......................~..... 323
71.1{)
74.11
515 Vermont Square.·--······ 347
32.00
10.00
516 Taft...·-···-········'··-····-····· 173
65.50
59.83
517 Mount Vernon................ 202
21.00
15.00
518 La Jolla....- ..··-····-·········· 118
99.00 101.80
519 Euclid...·-····-···-·······....... 248
. ................................._ 303
49.00
32.00
520 I omc
7.50
20.00
521 Piedmont...............·-····-·· 216
75.00
49.00
522 Sunrise..........-.................. 191
30.00
16.00
523 Bellflower......................... 169
524 Catalina Island............... 101 109.50
2.o<i
6.25
525 George Washington...... 269
19.50
31.00
526 Bay City...·-··················· 209
44.00
5.00
527 Covenant........................... 253
90.50
98.00
528 Beverly Hills................... 233
55.00
31.00
529 Loyalty............................... 240
530 Sun Garden.•.......·-········ 363
27.00
18.50
531 Alexandria....................... 117
532 Smyrna...·-······················ 54
18.30
7.00
533 Azure................................. 171
2.00
6.00
534 Forest Hill.·-·····'··········· .. 96
535 Alexander Hamilton..... 134 132.50 316.50
536 Seal Rock. ........·-····-····· 129
76.64
537 Utopia..............................; 468 104.13
24.00
36.00
538 Ascot................................. 214
21.00
68.00
539 Belvedere.......................... 194
540 Queen Beach................... 113
37.50·
541 Henry Morse Stephens 279
542 Lankershim.........·-·········· 267
543 Signal................--··-···-·· 260
27.00
33.50
544 Glendale................:........... 317
71.00
85.00

785

1941

1942

1943

9.50
8.50
30.50
47.50
5.00

9.75
29.50
12.70
12.00

59.00
59.00
62.00
11.50
16.00 .
10.00

59.00

58.50
17.50
995.90
18.00
4.00
10.25
8.75
20.00
9.00
10.00
90.36
49.44
66.55
10.00
49.90
5.00
40.00
60.00
18.25
54.68
76.50
51.00
118.50
27.00

54.50
50.02
10.50

122.00
68.60
50.00
48.50

30'.00

27.00
132.30

943.30
38.00
25.00
38.00
10.QO
50.00
17.00
242.50
306.75
123.50
26.00
143.24
73.00
10.00
40.00
62.00
29.00
76.00

77.50
50.00
30.20
27.50
6.29
11.00

8.po
205~35

7.50

105.00
34.75
14.50

18.75
40.00
21.00
30.45

10.10
87.00

42.65
138.00

1,255.00
''. 291.00
77:00
100.00
75.00
116.50
191.00
26.10
133.50
278.25
97.00
93.5()
213.75
215.00
31.00
109.00
27.50
57.50
225.00
136.00
232.00
47.00
16.00
11.50
. 250.00
42.00
178.13
237.00
72.00
27.00
84.50
127.00
623-.50
117.00

786

Membership 1939
Name
545 Jonathan........................... 152
8.00
546 San Gabriel..................... 138
3.00
547 Arcadia...............·-·······•··· 122
26.00
548 Triangle.....................·-···· 109
49.50
549 J usti<;e...._ .......~...........,.... 154
28.00
550 Seaport............................. 159
7.00
551 Lakeshore......................... 176
27.50
552 Semper Virens................ 138
554 Educator........................... 249
92.00
555 White Pine..................... 78
21.50
556 Fairfax.........·-····-········· 112
59.53
557 Hermosa........................... 116
558 Point Firmin................... 252 298.85
3725
559 Craftsman...................... _ 217
2.00
560 Plymouth...·-···············-·· 191
10.00
561 East San Diego.............. 294
32.00
562 Pyramid................•.....- ... 189
.563 South Park...·-····-·····-- 300 143.50
11.50
564 Foothill......................- ..... 245
40.50
565 West Adams................- .. 201
566 James A. Garfield......... 142
567 Searchlight....................... 304
13.00
568 Park Bouleva,rd..........- .. 222
15.50
569 Chateau Thierry...·- ····· 201
570 Military Service...........- 249
5.00
571 Francis K. Shattuck...... 170
51.00
572 James Madison.............,. 157
573 Hillcrest.....................·-··· 56
73.75
574 S. W. Hackett................. 181
8.25
575 Fort Crook..... ~··············· 81
2.00
576 El Cajon Valley...·-······· 59
54.00
577 Sunnyside......................... 244
45.00
578 Progres~ive...................... 282
10.67
579 Warren G. Harding...... 172
28.00
580 Santa Maria.................... 48
53.00
581 Security............•..•.....:...... 205
12.50
582 Rialto....-........................... 85
583 Wasco..............·-··············· 143
13.00
584 Harding............................ 149
41.50
585 Manchester....................... 225
5.60
586 Garden Grove.................. 89
15.00
587 Valley Forge.................. 202
588. El Sereno......................... 179
589 Kauai ....._.......................... 96 294.00
590 Compass............................ 131
21.00
591 Escalon...........:.................. 76
37.45
592 Tujunga............................ 134
43.75
593 All States......................... 273
306 140.00
594
595 ~i~~~;<l~;·c;;~};~~-ii~ii 171 108.00
596 Guardia.ti........................... 260 . 23.00
598 Pearl Harbor.................. 226 170.00
70.00
599 Carmelita.......................- . 185
4.00
600 Lynwood........................... 129
No.

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1940
15.00
18.00
9.00
10.00
24.50
18.00
15.00
39.00
19.27
6.50
63.00
45.10
10.00
18.00
12.00
74.50
20.50
2.00
46.00

1941
19.00
10.00
7.00
9.70
80.10
17.00
18.50
25.00
27,00
27.02
33.50
25.38
8.75
19.50
137.50
12.50

1942
14.50·
3.50
18.75
16.57
47.10
43.50
25.00
113.50
43.00
20.50
42.00
63.58
33.00
39.42
640.20
36.25
56.23
10.00

77.00

20.00
15.00

44.25

9.50

85.00

10.00
54.00

4.30
35.00
21.75
64.00
15.00
12.00
40.75
44.50

45.50
2.00
41.06
48.00
10.00
53.50
13.00
5.00

67.00
23.14
25.51

28.50
134.50
5.30
12.00

7.40
36.50
59.58
25.00
105.14
31.50
66.50·
6.64
16.00

259.50

243.50

19.00
38.66
46.00
109.00
116.00
22.00
179.15
31.00

21.00
33.00
77.82
118.00
121.60
26.00
270.40
79.61
17.00

61.00
43.50
30.00
54.00
34.40
153.50
5.05
7.00

25.00
65.00
97.50
128.00
136.25
44.00
147.00
41.00
41.95

Membership

1943

No.

11.00
52.00
25.00
42.00
137.00
54.0C
10.00
39.50 .
5.00
94.25
28.50
30.00
105.00
177.05
29.00
56.00
11.50
299.50
116.75
49.00
34.00
69.00
32.60
138.00
20.00
35.00
90.00
10.50
59.00
41.50
59.00
350.00
73.50

601 Grizzly................-·--····- 95
602 Melrose................·-···-···- 123
603 · Dimond....................;........ 182
b04 Jubilee ............................... 164
605 Glassell Park.................. 229
607 Sojourner......................... 78
608 Granada ................_.......... 297
609 ProvYdent............'..........._ 165
610 Elmhurst...............·-·······- 129
-611. Canoga.........·-··········-·-·- 111
612 Temple City.·--··········-·- 116
613 Three Pillars...·-···········- 191
614 Larchmont........................ 202
615 Hemet.....................•......... 90
616 R. E. Dolley.........:....... 77
617 Big Bear........................... 52
618 Southland....._..c••••••••••••••• 175
619 Neptune...............:.....·-···· 117
620 Point Loma...·-··-;·····-··· 107
621 The G?rdens........;........... 199
622 Atwater............................ 170
623 Menorah...............·-····-··· 342
624 Fortitude..............·-·····-··· 132
625 Angeles Mesa......•.......... 318
626 Chula Vista..........:......:... 105
627 Lamanda Park................ 106
628 Truth.:............................ 164
629 Fairview...........,....·-····'··· 104
630. ..Ingleside.... -,;····~···.-·········· 96
631 Benevolence....................• 196
. 632 Normal Heights.............. 182
633 Poinsettia......................... 310
634 Victorville........................ 82
635 Riverside........................... 167
636 John Marshall,.........- .... 96
637 Palisades........................... 197
638 Indian Rock.................... 120
639 Composite......................... 148
640 Veritas.............................. 85
641 James A. Foshay............ 103
642 La Cumbre...................... 91
643 Alta Loma....................... 230
644 Lomita ............................._ 91
645 A. F. E. Irwin................ 135
646 Metropolitan.................... 77
647 Hawthorne....................... 65
648 Damascus....._.................. 217
649 Florence............................. 204
650 La Brea............................ 190
651 Menlo Park.........·-········· 80
652 . Crescenta Valley............ 121
653 Fontana............................. 81
654 Jordan............................_ 137
655 Monte Vista .................... 257

116.00
64.50
61.75
217.00
62.50
300.50
53.92
73.00
15.00
480.00
133.50
5D.00
125.50
104.50
247.50
212.15
183.00
715.00
211.00
133.00

Naine

1939

1940

24.00

68.50
22.00
28.80
46.00
30.00
23.65
20.50
61.50
42.05
43.56
10.00
43.50 • 102.88
64.50
36.00
29.20
61.50
35.00
21.50
20.00
21.33
13.00

5.00
20.81
70.50
16.00.
. 61.82
8.00
32.00
7.00
52.55

5.00
18.50
15.00
55.00
50.00
45.00
69.00
42.00
37.00
27.20
14.50 . 19.37
112.50 124.50
70.75
63.00
5.00 300.00
17.00
50.00 102.25
15.00
5.00
36.00
75.00
8.bo
5.00
79.87
54.16
50.00
111.75 174.00
26.00
8.00
19.00
9.00
29.00
44.50
179.11 188.85
21.09
3.00
21.00
15.00
20.00
20.00
65.62
45.00
29.00
23.00
7.50
39.00
73.50
22.75
26.00

1941

5.00
9.00
156.0Q
43.45

57.50
.15.00
28.10
309.50
94.00
391.75
18.00
104.00
11.00
69.47
53.00
104.98
100.00
173.68
32.00
11.00
125.45
14.00
35.00
25.00

787
1942
62.00
31.33
66.00
48.56
12325

1943

23.00
49.75
11.00
63.00
15,75 .
9.0Q .

46.25
146.00
17.00
72.50
33.00
112.00
33.60
6.00
' 20.20
5.00
118.00
93.50
·11,'.h50
88.50
150.50
373.00
136;00
54.80'

~7.05

26.50
11.75
105.QO
60.50
57.50
30.QO
47.25
50.00
39.50
443.50
42.00
83.58
117.65
129.00
120.35
20.00
36.50
25.75
143.77
16.40
47.50
25.00
25.00

27.00
19.25
104.00
36.00

155.50
25.00

37.01
72.22
69.00
23.74
174.00

271.l(l
212.65
59.50
74.00
250.00
273.50
20.00
18.00
44.00
322.50
35.50
41.00
17.00
25.00
26.00
99.50

24.72
22.50
43.00
12.50
52.50

21.00
26.65
50.00
16.00
54.50

29.05
106.00
9.00
12.00
69.50

39.50
182.64
11.00
8.50
59.00

301.00
68.75
200.50
75.35
304.50
13.50
30.00
95.75

4.00
27.00

9.60
54.26

8.00
25.00

28.10
36.00

35.25
95.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mem1942
1943
1941
194-0
bership 1939
Name
No.
37.0\l
21.34
9.41
3S.SO
3.00
Citro!...
............
:.................
118
6S6
S04.00
41.50
41.00
41.50
48.SO
6S7 John D. Spreckels~........ 306
37.7S
17.00
24.10
20.SO
4S.07
6S8 Livingston..........:............. 64
S.00
659 La Habra...............·-···-· 81
S0.00
S0.00
660 Baldwin Park................. 61
32.70
77.00
64.SO
28.30
14.SO
.... 109
661 Malta....- 876.25
662 Henry Knox................... 246 261.40 2SO.OO 46S.25 667.SO
663 Ojai..........,......:...._.....•.:.._ S3
3S.OO
18.00
16.SO
41.00
66S Kaweah...·-······················· 64
138.SO
19.00
28.SO
20.7S
43.60
666 Reseda.....................·-······· 84
112.50
69.00
26.00
4S.OO
42.8S
667 Meridian...................·-····· 173
17.00
17.8S
7.00
6.00
668 San Gorgonio...·-····-····- 90
2S.2S
14.S8
12.7S
9.2S
7.30
f<59 John P. Jarman.............. llS
118.00
80.20
70.00
72.SO
27.00
670 Greenleaf................._....... 204
10.00
10.00
671 San Clemente..........- ..... 30
14.00
24.00
19.00
23.00
672 Laguna Beach................. 71
, 673 Far West......................-. ISl
IS2.00
4S.03
S8.00
20.00
20.00
674 Los Cerritos....- .............. 113
78.82
200.00
40.SO
32.SO
48.73
675 Modesto............................ 170
. 2.00
lS.00
6.00
676 Willow Glen...•_ .........•.. 107
18.00
42.SO
60.7S
62.00
2S.OO
677 Liberal Arts...:_...•.......... 91
144.25
47.07
26.00
37.SO
61.00
678 Altadena...........•............... 184
6.00
. 2S.00
679 Canby's Cross................. S8
42.80
16.SO
18.7S
S.00
5.00
680 Carmel..........·-·················· S8
48.00
45.00
30.00
681 Dos Palos...............•...... 42
178.32
21.11
81.20
682 Barstow ........................ S6
47.SO
683 Redwood Empire......:: 21
187.00
76.50
S3.2S
684 Trona....:...........••.-.......... 35
Total membership--12S,843. Total number of lodges-S82.
Total contributors-1939, 6,SOO; 1940, 6,3S7; 1941, 6,623; 1942, 8,066;
1943! lS,416.
1942- 6.41 %
Per cent : 1939-S.20%
1943-12.2M'.'o
194-0-5.02%
1941-S.2S%

ANNUAL RETURNS-1943

788

Name of Lodge

-

1 California..........- .......
2 Western Stat...........••
3 Tehama..•......·-····--···
s Benicia.'·······-·-····- ··8 Tuolumne......•............
9 Corinthian-·-········-IO San Jose.........·-···········
12 Yount....·-··········-··-····
13 Nevada...·-····-··········14 Temple....·-····-·····-····
16 Eureka............•..·- ····17 La Parfaite Union....
18 Mountain Shade........
19 San 1oaquin........•.......
20 Washington......•.....···•
21 Hawaiian................•...
22 OccidentaL........- ..··-·
23 Madison...................._
24 Mariposa:.................•..
ZS Georgetown................
26 El Dorado...........•....•.
27 Trinity...........·-····-···30 Golden Gate...·-····-····
32 Gold Hill...·-····---···33 Ophir...........................
3S San Diego............••••..•
37 Howard~..:...........••.•...
38 Santa Cruz:....·-····-···
4-0 Sacramento..........- ....
41 Martinez.·-·-·········-··
42 Los Angeles................ ·
43 Hiram...:-··-···············
44 Mount Moriah....•......
4S Crescent......................
46 Texas.........................so Forbestown................
SI ltlinoistown......_..._._
SS Suisun.....·-··········-·····
S6 Volcano......-...............
S7 Santa Rosa.................
S8 Union.............•..•.•.••- ..•
S9 Gravel Range_·········- ·
60 Plumas..........•......._. __
61 Live Oak........•......·-···
64 Natoma...·-············-···
6S Amador..................••..•
66 Forest....- .....:.......••.•:..
68 Morning Star.............
70 Enterprise..............•..•.
76 Bear Mountain...........
78 Calaveras...................•
79 Humboldt....................
80 Ione.....·-······················
:g1 Yolo........~.·--·~··-·········

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

789

uuo

Home
Contrlbutlon1

$370.9S $209.20 $261.50 $3SO.OO
90.4S
4S.20
S6.SO
12S.OO
367.00
192.00
240.00
47S.00
lOS.80
S2.80
66.00
200.00
12S.2S
74.00
92.SO
100.00
199.80
100.80
126.00
42S.OO
308.10
16S.60
207.00
3SO.OO
27S.10
117.60
147.00
67S.OO
79.9S
49.20
61.50
2S.OO
93.lS
44.40
SS.SO
200.00
137.SS
74.80
93.SO
12S.OO
S2.40
88.lS
6S.SO
2S.OO
2S.7S
14.00
17.SO
2S.OO
379.9S
201.20
2Sl.SO
62S.OO
399.05
206.80
2S8.SO
SS0.00
297.70
13S.20
169.00
77S.OO
47S.OS
270.80
338.SO
400.00
179.2S
90.00
112.SO
37S.OO
117.30
64.80
81.00
100.00
3S.10
21.60
27.00
69.20
136.4S
86.SO
17S.OO
69.6S
4-0.40
so.so
50.00
430.45
237.20
296.50
.375.00
S4.30
32.80
41.00
30.9S
17.20
21.50
25.00
S03.45
213.20
266.50 1,450.00
1S7.4S
77.20
96.SO
2SO.OO
224.20
123.20
154.00
300.00
4-04.30
208.80
261.00.
625.00
188.50
92.00
115.00
400.00
439.9S
241.20
301.50
SS0.00
41.lS
20.4-0
2S.SO
75.00
25S.2S
146.00
182.50
175.00
97.SS
50.80 .
63.50
17S.OO
28.35
lS.60
19.SO
25.00
39.8S
19.60
24.50
12S.OO
48.50
28.00
35.00
S0.00
84.10
4S.60
57.00
100.00
22.4S
13.20
16.SO
286.80
156.80
196.00
3SO.OO
374.30
200.80
251.00
42S.OO
33.90
18.40
23.00
2S.OO
71.10
37.60
47.00
12S.OO
632.2S
346.00
432.50
550.00
52.00
6S.OO
JJS.SO
300.00
42.30
24.80
31.00
29.60
17.60
22.00
301.9S
161.20
201.SO
475.00
131.4S
77.20
96.SO
7S.OO
4-0.30 .
24.80
31.00
60.45
29.20
36.50
100.00
232.8S
123.60 , IS4.SO
.3SO.OO
60.10
29.60
37.00
100.00
37.15
20.40
25.50
50.00

Total

$1,191.65
317.15
1,274..00
424.60
391.7S
8Sl.60
1,030.70
1,214.70
21S.6S
393.0S
430.8S
231.0S
82.2S
l,4S7.6S
l,414.3S
1,376.90
l ,484.3S
7S6.7S
363.10
83.70
467.IS
210.SS .
1,339.IS
128.H>
94.6S
.2,433.15
S81.1S
801.40
1,499.10
79S.SO
l ,S32.65
162.05
7S8.7S
386.8S
88.4S
208.9S
161.50
286.70
S2.IS
989.60
l ,2Sl.10
100.30
280.70
1,960.75
S32.SO
98.10
69.20
l,139.6S
380.lS
96.10
226.15
860.9S
226.70
133.05

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

790
Name o! Lodge .

84
87
89
91
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182

Vesper.........................
Naval.........·-····-····-···
Rose's Bar...·-····-·······
North Star...·-··········St. Helena....·-·····-···Henry Oay.................
Hornitos......................
Yosemite...............,-...
Clay..............................
Oroville.......................
Lexington.............·-···
Arcata....·-····-··········-·
Pai aro.........·-····-····-·
Chico......................:-..
Summit....................- ..
Eden........................... _
Concord.........·-···········
Fidelity..·-···········-······
Alamo..........................
Sotoyome....·-··········-·
Table Mountain...·-···
Lafayette..................Hermann..................~ ...
Visalia.........................
Nicolaus ..........---·-····
Woodbridge............- ..
Sincerity......................
Vacaville.....................
Valley........................Pacific........................ _
Crockett................·-·-·
Curtis...·-····-··········-···
Graf tort...............·-····Franklin......................
Oriental.......................
Vitruvius..................-.
Abell....~---·········-····-···
Eel River ..........- .........
Lassen......;..................
Molino.........................
Woodland...................
Keystone.................- ..
Harmony...·-··········-··
Excelsior.....................
Ala:meda...............·-····
Redwood City...........•
Mission........................
Elk Grove....................
Drytown.......... _..........
Antioch.......................
Phoenix.......................
Mendocino................Petaluma...........- ........
Russian River.............
Arbuckle.....................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

111.35
769.75
23.40
42.90
54.70
37.15
59.05
195.15
44.65
160.95
189.15
129.05
173.30
253.60
23.40
177.50
176.35
323.15
129.35
109.60
69.80
125.50
134.25
301.85
. 64.60
89.10
51.05
113.35.
59.20
357.45
371.35
41.70
40.65
59.00
255.10
78.05
121.45
138.75
99.50
78.65
. 144.15
15.30
9.10
316.40

63.60
286.00
14.40
18.40
31.20
20.40
30.80
100.40
24.40
89.20
84.40
70.80
88.80
121.60
14.40
84.00
95.60
188.40
63.60
57.60
36.80
68.00
74.00
139.60
33.60
45.60
30.80
55.60
27.20
213.20
215.60
23.20
24.40
32.00
149.60
38.80
61.20
70.00
60.00
-40.40
84.40
8.80
5.60
174.40
46.00
109.60
250.00
45.20
10.40
59.20
183.20
43.60
104.80
32.00
28.40

79.50
357.50
18.00
23.00
39.00
25.50
38.50
125.50
30.50
111.50
105.50
88.50
111.00
152.00
18.00
105.00
119.50
235.50
79.50
72.00
46.00
85.00
92.50
174.50
42.00
57.00
38.50
69.50
34.00
266.50
269.50
29.00
30.50
40.00
187.00
48.50
76.50
87.50
75.00
so.so
105.50
11.00

77.75
231.10
457.25
84.45
16.90
129.20
350.70
73.85
• io4.30
54.00
58.15

$25.00
Home
Contributions

100.00
3,375.00
125.00
25.00
75.00
75.00
300.00
75.00
175.00
475.00
200.00
325.00
500.00
525.00
200.00
150.00
250.00
175.00
100.00
150.00
200.00
700.00
100.00
150.00
25.00
200.00
125.00
75.00
200.00
25.00
25.00
100.00
100.00
150.00
250.00
250.00
75.00
200.00
75.00
25.00

7.00
218.00
57.50
137.00
312.50
56.50
13.00
74.00
229.00
54.50
131.00
40.00
35.50

350.00
50.00
550.00
450.00
175.00
225.00
475.00
25.00
350.00
50.00
125.00
'

Total

354.45
4,788.25
55.80
209.30
149.90
158.05
203.35
721.05
174.55
536.65
854.05
488.35
698.10
1,027.20
55.80
891.50
591.45
897.05
522.45
414.20
25~.60

428.50
500.75
1,315.95
240.20
341.70
145.35
438.45
245.40
912.15
1,056.45
118.90
120.55
231.00
691.70
315.35
509.15
546.25
309.50
369.55
409.05
60.10
21.70
1,058.80
231.25
1,027.70
1,469.75
361.15
40.30
487.40
1,237.90
196.95
790.10
176.00
247.05

Name o! Lodge

183 Clear Lake...............•..
184 Sierra Valley...........-.
185 Clll.iborne...................•
186 Evening Star..............
187 Keith....·-···············•-·188 Oakland.'··-··············-·
190 Northern Light..........
191 Marin...............·-·········
192 Santa Barbara............
193 Ferndale............- ........
194 Mountain View..........
195 Buckeye.......................
196 San Simeon.........·--·198 Wilmington................
199 Hartley...·-················200 Truckee..... _................
201 Silveyville...................
202 Pentalpha.................. _
203 Confidence................204 Salinas.........·-······-·····
205 Olivet.............:.•.,...-..•
206 Stantslaus..................•.
207 Anaheim......................
208 Rio Vista...·-····-···-····
209 King David's..............
2Hl Friendship.:.................
211 San Benito................_
212 So. San Francisco....•
214 San Buenaventura....
215 Oak "Grove................_
216 Doric...................·-·····
217 Monterey.................-..
218 Mosaic.........................
219 Speranza ltaliana.....•
220 Downey......................•
221 Inyo........ _.,................ ~
222 Roseville....................•
224 Bakersfield................_
225 Brooklyn.........·-····-···
226 San Mateo....•-··········
228 Athens.........................
229 Solano..........................
231) North Butte................
. 231 Covelo.....................•__
232 Janesville....................
233 Calistoga.....................
234 Hope............:..·-····-····
. 235 Surprise Valley..........
236 Hills Ferry.................
237 Guadalupe...................
240 Colusa..,......................,
241 Santa Ana...................
242 Magnolia.................:....
243 Eucalyptus.........·-······
244 Alcatraz......................

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

30.30
20.80
35.50
22.75
81.40
606.70
54.75
311.25
148.05
79.05
174.35
83.80
76.00
242.50
120.25
62.20
87.95
362.10
24.20
250.45
70.20
297.10
199.80
81.60
225.35
375.90
90.60
151.05
204.10
380.90
297.05
111.25
103.70
219.90
225.50
69.25
210.25
360.05
353.95
178.60
"72.60
386.80
101.35
44.20
42.40
58.15
58.85
48.30

16.80
12.80
20.00
14.00
46.40
295.20
30.00
170.00
78.80
46.80

71.70
40.10
93.40
307.25
191.10
196.65
335.55

Home
Building

21.00
16.00
25.00
17.50
58.00
369.00
37.50
212.50
98.50
58.50
79.60
99.50
44.80
56.00
40.00
50.00
116.00
145.00
66.00 .
82.50
35.20
44.00
49.20
61.50
205.60
257.00
11.20
14.00
125.20
156.50
35.20
44.00
141.60
177.00
100.80
126.00
. 52.00
41.60
119.60
149.50
202.40
253.00
49.60
62.00
86.80
108.50
109.60
137.00
202.40
253.00
166.80
208.50
58.00
72.50
55.20.
69.00
1-30.40
163.00
84.00
105.00
34.00
42.50
106.00
132.50
174.80
218.50
201.20
251.50
89.60
112.00
41.60
52.00
180.80
226.00
47.60
59.50
19.20
24.00
22.40
28.00
28.40
35.50
27.60
34.50
24.80
31.00
39.20
49.00
21.60
27.00
68.00 .
54.40
162.00
202.50
93.60
117.00
120.50
96.40
178.80
223.50

791
$25.00
Home
Contributions

25.00
25.00
50.00
1,175.00
50.00
375.00
225.00
425.00
125.00
100.00
650.00
125.00
25.00
100.00
250.00
75.00
475.00
150.00
625.00
325.00
100.00
275.00
525.00
75.00
100.00
325.00
600.00
250.00
125.00
150.00
100.00
825.00
125.00
375.00
800.00
250.00
375.00
100.00
950.00
300:00
125.00
75.00
100.00
175.00
75.00
75.00
50.00
50.00
475.00
475.00
375.00
450.00

Total

93.10
49.60
105.50
54.25
235.80
2,445.90
172.25
1,068.75
550.35
184.35
778.45
309.60
266.00
1,153.50
393.75
166.40
298.65
1,074.70
124.40
1,007.15
299.40
1,240.70
751.60
275.20
769.45
1,356.30

277.20
446.35

775.70
1,436.30
922.35
366.75

377.90
613.30
1,239.50
270.75
823.75
1,553.35
1,056.65
755.20
266.20
1,743.60
508.45
212.40
167.80
222.05
;295.95
179.10
234.90
138.70
265.80
1,146.75
876.70
788.55
1,187.85

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

792

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00

245
246
247
248
250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
261
262
264
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308

Name or Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Laurel ..........................
Pomona.......................
Fresno.........................
Alturasv··········--········Adin.............................
Landmark...................
Reading.......................
Welcome.....................
Lodi....................:.........
Penrhyn......................
Evergreen...................
King Solomon's........
Tuscan.........................
Lompoc........................
Hesperian...................
Orland..........................
North East.................
Galt..............................
Durant.........................
Ollve Branch~.............
Snow Mountain.........
Pasadena.....................
Anchor.......................•
A.rr-0yo......................;..
Oakdale.......................
Selma...........................
So. California.............
Hanforq..................c•••
Madera........................
Mount Shasta............:
Callayomi...................
South West.................
San Miguel.................
Paso Robles ................
Winnedumah..............
Maxwell ......................
Elsinore.......................
East Gate.....................
Santa Paula................
Los Gatos.............·.......
Orange Grove............
Traver.........................
Mt. Jackson................
Silver Gate..................
Dunsmuir....................
Liberty...:._............;....
Redlands ......................
Ontario....................,...
Santa Lucia.,.............,
Porterville~ .................
Reedley........................
A.zusa...........:...............
Ashlar............,.............
Santa Monica.............
Monrovia....................

130.15
208.75.
389.80
99.40
46.35
55.25
109.95
131.85
189.15
64.15
332.00
358.85
47.20
100.45
153.00
75.95
37.85
45.65
367.60
157.55
20.80
271.65
267.25
78.80
78.80
107.25
306.55'
112.00
113.65
33.20
32.50
173.50
43.80
137.50
72.30
35.85
76.90
505.95
183.60
150.30
132.10
69.75
77.50
587.50
159.30
193.20
264.80
155.85
77.15
229.50
97.95
121.00
155.15
179.10
141.90

68.40
110.00
220.80
54.40
23.60
34.00
65.20
67.60
108.40
36.40
176.00
203.60
27.20
45.20
80.00
41.20
19.60
24.40
209.60
82.80
12.80
152.40
114.00
36.80
44.80
58.00
162.80
56.00
64.40
19.20
20.00
76.00
20.80
52.00
40.80
19.60
42.40
273.20
97.60
80.80
69.60
38.00
44.00
244.00
80.80
91.20
132.80
83.60
36.40
124.00
49.20
64.00
68.40
93.60
74.40

Home
Bul!dlng

Home
Contrlbutloll9

200.00
85.50
300.00
137.50
275.00
276.00
100.00
68.00
50.00
29.50
42.50
125.00
81.50
225.00
84.50
175.00
135.50
100.00
45.50
600.00
220.00
275.00
254.50
. 25.00
34.00
350.00
56.50
225.00
100.00
100.00
51.50
50.00
24.50
75.00
30.50
225.00
262.00
325.00
103.50
16.00
190.50
250.00
142.50
925.00
250.00
46.00
56.00
50.00
150.00
72.50
425.00
203.50
200.00
70.00
80.50 " 75.00
24.00
25.00
25.00
95.00 . 525.00
50.00
26.00
65.00
500.00
25.00
51.00
50.00
24.50
150.00
53.00
625.00
341.50
225.00
122.00
250.00
101.00
175.00
87.00
47.50
100.00
75.00
55.00
305.00 1,825.00
225.00
101.00
350.00
114.00
550.00
166.00
250.00
104.50
150.00
45.50
275.00
155.00
175.00
61.50
250.00
80.00
450.00
85.50
425.00
117.00
225.00
93.00

Total

484.05
756.25
1,161.60
321.80
149.45
131.75
381.65
508.95
608.05
246.05
1,328.00
1,091.~

133.40
552.15
558.00
268.65
131.95
175.55
1,064.'.?0
668.85
49.60
864.55
1,448.75
411.60
229.60
387.75
1,097.85
438.00
333.55
101.40
77.50
869.50
140.60
754.50
189.10
129.95
322.30
1,745.65
628.20
582.10
463.70
255.25
251.SO
2,961.50
566.10
748.40
1,113.60
593.95
309.05
783.50
383.65
515.00
759.05
. 814.70
534.30

Name or Lodge

309 Delano.........................
310 Sisson........~···--·-····
312 Los Banos...................
313 Tehachapi...................
314 Temescal..........-···-···
315 Norwalk......................
316 Sange;.........................
317 Fallbrook....................
318 Emmanuel...................
319 Hollenbeck................•
320 South Gate.............-321 Alisa!...........................
322 Alhambra....................
323 Whittier......................
324 Corona.........•-.,..........
325 Consuelo......................
326 Needles........................
327 Long Beach.................
328 Redondo......................
329 Vallee de France........
330 Kilauea........................
331 Pacific Grove..............
332 San Pedro...................
333 Alta..............................
334 Covina......................._
335 West Gate...................
336 Fruitvale.....................
337 Carquinez....................
338 San.Jacinto.................
339 ·Fullerton.....................
341 Oxnard........................
343 San Fernando.............
344 Starr King.........·-···345 Brentwood..................
346 Palo Alto......c••••••••: .....
347 McKinley....................
348 San Bernardino..........
349 Sequoia........................
351 Palestine......................
352 Sunset..........................
353 Pinole..........................
354 Presidio...................._
355 Hollywood..................
356 . Mill Valley.................
357 Buena Park.................
358 Golden State...............
359 Loyalton......................
360 San Francisco............
361.. Fort Bragg...............362 Charity....................363 Berkeley......................
365 Willits..........................
366 Las Palmas .................
367 South Pasadena.........
368 Unity....'...'....................

793
$25.00

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Home
Contributions

124.95
51.45
87.45
111.00
89.55
91.35
151.95
64.45
62.40
713.10
383.45
78.00
307.80
329.45
271.50
105.90
176.05
354.60
223.40
76.85
190.80
109.15
328.60
35.10
147.85
553.25
582.40
115.60
49.85
225.90
177.80
192.90
329.05
47.15
310.40
237.30
377.85
615.85
340.90
294.55
90.75
321.80
511.95
223.55
106.55
553.70
49.85
226.10
79.75
87.10
353.95
84.65
466.80
314.90
281.95

65.20
29.20
45.20
56.00
50.80
47.60
73.20
21.20
30.40
397.60
221.20
40.00
156.80
181.20
156.00
58.40
86.80
193.60
94.40
43.60
76.80
60.40
169.60
21.60
75.60
290.00
294.40
57.60
27.60
122.40
84.80
98.40
190.80
28.40
174.40
120.80
187.60
331.60
186.40
146.80
46.00
188.80
281.20
114.80
50.80
295.20
27.60
125.60
38.00
45.60
185.20
48.40
252.80
178.40
145.20

81.50
36.50
56.50
70.00
63.50
59.50
91.50
26.50
38.00
497.00
276.50
50.00
196.00
226.50
195.00
73.00
108.50
242.00
118.00
54.50
96.00
75.50
212.00
27.00
94.50
362.50
368.00
72.00
34.50
153.00
10.6.00
123.00
238.50
35.50
218.00
151.00
234.50
414.50
233.00
183.50
57.50
236.00
351.50
143.50
63.50
369.00
34.50
157.00
47.50
57.00
231.50
60.50
316.00
223.00
181.50

150.00
100.00
175.00
100.00
125.00
300.00
400.00
125.00
625.00
250.00
125.00
725.00
450.00
175.00
100.00
425.00
400.00
750.00
50.00
600.00
125.00
575.00
250.00
925.00
1,075.00
225.00
75.00
325.00
400.00
350.00
225.00
25.00
375.00
425.00
875.00
775.00
350.00
450.00
200.00
150.00
600.00
450.00
275.00
700.00
50.00
250.00
175.00
125.00
575.00
50.00
700.00
325.00
450.00

Total

421.65
117.15
289.15
412.00
303.85
323.45
616.65
512.15
255.80
2,232.70
1,131.15
293.00
1,385.60
1,187.15
797.50
337.30
796.35
1,190.20
1,185.80
224.95
963.60
370.05
1,285.20
83.70
567.95
2,130.75
2,319.80
470.20
186.95
826.30
768.60
764.30
983.35
136.05
1,077.80
934.10
1,674.95
2,136.95
1,110~30

1,074.85
394.25
896.60
1,744.65
931.85
495.85
1,917.90
161.95
758.70
340.25
314.70
1,345.65
243.55
1,735.60
1,041.30
1,058.65

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

794
Name or Lodge

369 Ocean Park................
370 Amity.......... _ ...,.........
371 le Progres de
l'Oceanie..................
. 372 Gardena.......................
373 West Los Angeles.
. 374 Jewel...............·- ···-375 Richmond ....................
376 Francis Drake............
377 Artesia.........................
378 Mizpah....................._..
379 Fillmore......................
380 Huntington Beach.....
381 Oceanside..........._.......
382 Hig~and Park.;······383 Oros1........................_.
384 El Centro....................
385 Dinuba.:.......................
387 Coalinga.........;............
388 Parnassus....................
389 Palos Verdes..............
390 lmperiai..........:............
391 East Belt.....................
392 West Lake..................
393 Balder.......................
394 University................_
395 Turlock.......................
396 Apollo..........................
397 Rising Light...............
399 Fraternity...................
400 Burlingame.................
401 Bay View....................
402 Brawley....................:..
403 Yerba Buena..........:...
404 Glendora.....................
405 Moneta....................__
406 Burbank......................
407 La Mesa......................
408 Sierra Madre..............
409 Honolulu................_ .
410 Charter Rock.............
411 Perris...........................
412 Calexico......................
413 Waucoba..:..................
414 Arlington......:........:....
415 Silver Trowel............
416 Lindsay.......................
417 Clovis.......................c...
418 Elysian......................_
419 Upland.........................
420 Kennan.......................
421 Inglewood...................
422 Eagle Rock.................
423 York..........................;.
424 Exeter .........................

795

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home
Contributions

Total

244.90
324.40

122.40
174.40

153.00
218.00

550.00
400.00

1,070.30
1,116.80

442.70
141.70
164.90
88.55
366.55
164.15
54.05
262.05
127.15
178.55
130.20
315.40
70.00
188.10
150.55
191.40
429.60
427.60
59.45
55.90
647.20
311.15
353.20
171.75
261.25
504.75
286.85
28.3.50
293.80
95.95
416.00
72.15
470.00
314.75
189.55
52.85
186.35
252.70
67.70
80.95
29.65
236.00
209.05
111.30
178.70
284.65
17.40
41.15
325.ZO
227.65
148.75
103.20

167.20
63.20
82.40
50.80
210.80
76.40
30.80
134.80
60.40
98.80
51.20
158.40
32.00
109.60
74.80
102.40
233.60
209.60
29.20
26.40
355.20
172.40
187.20
78.00
. 138.00
222.00
147.60
156.00
132.80
49.20
192.00
36.40
240.00
134.00
66.80
27.60
87.60
135.20
31.20
49.20
16.40
120.00
110.80
56.80
95.20
160.40
54.40
20.40
135.20
104.40
70.00
5,9.20

209.00
79.00
103.00
63.50
263.50
95.50
38.50
168.50
75.50
123.50
64.00
198.00
40.00
137.00
93.50
128.00
292.00
262.00
36.50
33.00
444.00
215.50
234.00
97.50
172.50
277.50
184.50
195.00
166.00
61.50
240.00
45.50
300.00
167.50
83.50
34.50
109.50
169.00
39.00
61.50
20.50
150.00
138.50
71.00
119.00
200.50
68.00
25.50
169.00
130.50
87.50
74.00

1,675.00
300.00
275.00
25.00
225.00
400.00
25.00
450.00
250.00
200.00
600.00
775.00
150.00
75.00
300.00
250.00
525.00
850.00
125.00
100.00
850.00
350.00
500.00
400.00
375.00
1,525.00
375.00
300.00
750.00
150.00
1,000.00
125.00
800.00
1,000.00
875.00
100.00
525.00
275.00
200.00
25.00
25.00
575.00
275.00
225.00
300.00
300.00
200.00
75.00
1,025.00
650.00
375.00
100.00

2,493.90
583.90
625JO
227.85
1,065.85
736.05
148.35
1,015.35
513.05
600.85
845.40
1,446.So
292.00'
509.70
618:85
671.80
1,480.20
1,749.20
250.15
215.30
2,296.40
1,049.05
1,274.40
747.25
946.75
2,529.25
993.95
934."50
1,342.60
356.65
1,848.00
279,05
1,810.00
1,616.25
1,214.85
214.95
908.45
831.90
337.90
216.65
91.55
1,081."00
733.35
464.10
692.90
945.55 .
429.80
162.05
1,654.90
1,112.55
681.25
336.40

Name. or Lodge

.

425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479

Holtville...............:......
Midway.........·-····-·····
Chino Valley...............
S.an Dimas...,.....·-······
Pittsburg...·-········McCloud......................
Alpha............................
Hammonton................
Maricopa.....................
Fairmount...................
Claremont...................
Lancaster................-..
Acacia.....:..................tyrian..........- ...........•
Standard......................
Coronado.....................
Blackmer.....................
Schofield.....................
Carpinteria.................
Wilshire......................
La Puente....................
Torrance.....................
Mount Diablo ·····--···
Park,.................,..........
Van Nuys....................
Montebello ..................
San Pasqual..............•
Bethlehem...............- ..
Crocker.......................
Golden West..~............
Ramona .......................
Henry S. Orme..........
Riverbank..................•
Mount Oso....•...........Argonaut.....................
Paul Revere...............
Morgan Hill...............
Alta Vista...................
Center..........................
Libertas ....·-················
Culver City.................
Rockridge...............- ..
Yorba Linda...............

Lincoln..---·

Delta..........:.........- ..-Maui...........................,..
Blythe..........................
Victory................... _
America.......................
Coachella.....................
Temblor......................
Thousand Oaks ...---··
Golden Rule................
480 Fellowship..................
481 Mt. Davidson.............

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

72.55
271.85
41.45
83.85
137.25
72.60
304.95
43.30
108.55
329.45
58.55
86.65
35.75
76.05
249.65
164.20
610.65
189.50
56.15
328.10
54.60
165.25
140.25
301.25
275.60
223.55
244.20
190.05
218.25
347.15
169.90
370.60
63.05
155.65
247.65
312.35
77.35
173.70
245.30
175.20
148.45
282.35
66.30
184.35
261.80
147.65
59.30
150.45
256.70
80.55
73.25
234.60
315.20
182.10
182.60

34.80
139.60
21.20
43.60
66.00
41.60
153.20
24.80
58.80
181.20
34.80
48.40
22.00
38.80
120.40
75.20
232.40
84.00
28.40
189.60
25.60
82.00
66.00
162.00
121.60
98.80
131.20
110.80
114.00
180.40
82.40
201.60
30.80
80.40
13MO
167.60
39.60
103.20
136.80
99.20
77.20
143.60
32.80
103.60
124.80
56.40
24.80
77.20
135.20
34.80
42.00
121.60
155.20
77.60
105.60

43.50
174.50
26.50
54.50
82.50
52.00
191.50
31.00
73.50
226.50
43.50
60.50
27.50
48.50
150.50
94.00
290.50
105.00
35.50
237.00
32.00
102.50
82.50
202.50
152.00
123.50
164.00
138.50
142.50
225.50
103.00
252.00
38.50
100.50
170.50
209.50
49.50
129.00
171.00
124.00
96.50
179.50
41.00
129.50
156.00
70.50
31.00
96.50
169.00
43.50
52.50
152.00
194.00
97.00
132.00

$25.00
Home
Contrlbutlona

200.00
400.00
50.00
125.00
325.00
675.00
25.00
200.00
350.00
25.00
100.00
125.00
575.00
400.00
2,325.00
575.00
100.00
250.00
150.00
325.00
300.00
375.00
850.00
625.00
375.00
100.00
300.00
475.00
475.00
. 350.00
125.00
275.00
250.00
375.00.
150.00
50.00
275.00
150.00
300.00
475.00
150.00
200.00
650.00
550.00
200.00
225.00
400.00
250.00
75.00
350.00
675.00
625.00
125.00

Total

350.85
985.95
139.15
306.95
610.75
166.20
1,324.65
124.10
440.85
1,087.15
161.85
295."55
85.25
288.35
1,095.55
733.40
3,458.55
953.50
220.05
1,004.70
262.20
674.75
588.75
1,040.75
1,399.20
1,070.85
914.40
539.35
774.75
1,228.05
830.30
1,174.20
257.35
611."55
804."55
1,064.45
316.45
455.90
828.10
548.40
622.15
1,080.45
290.10
617.45
1,192:60
824.55
315.10
549.15
960.90
408.85
242.75
858.20
1,339.40
981.70
545.20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

796
Name of Lodge

482
483
484
48S
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
49S
497
498
499

Clarence F. Smith......
Bell............:,.................
Albert Pike..........·-····
Chowchilla...........:....•.
Caledonia.....................
Vallejo.........................
Patterson.....................
East Bay......................
Corcoran...•.................
Woodstock..................
Garvanza.....................
Atascadero.................
Acorn...........................
Lebanon.......................
Fremont.......................
Stockton......................
Capital City•...~............
soo Roosevelt................•....
SOl Westwood....:....·- ······
S02 Harbor.......................•
503 Point............................'
5·04 · Seaside.........................
sos Silver Cord...............;.
S06 Mount Olive~ .........•....
507 El Segundo................
508 Joppa ............................
S09 Benjamin Franklin..•
SlO Cupertino....................
Sll Sunnyvale..............•...•
Sl2 Palms ......................•....
Sl3 Cahuenga....................
514 Argonne..........·-·········
515 Vermont Square........
Sl6 Taft...........................:..
Sl7 Mount Vernon...........
Sl8 La Jolla:......................
Sl9 Euclid..........................
520 Ionic.........................._
521 Piedmont..................,•.
S22 Sunrise........................
523 Bellflower...................
524 Catalina Island...c•••••••
52S · ·George Washington..
526 Bay City•........·-····-··· •
527 Covenant.....................
528 Beverly Hills..............
S29 Loyalty..........,...........•.
S30 Sun Garden.................
S31 Alexandria.~ ......\ ......
S32 Smyrna........................
S33 Azure...........................
534 Forest Hill..~:..............
535 Alexander Hamilton
S36 Seal Rock.................... ·
537 Utopia.....................,....

General
Fund

179.lS
244.6S
1S7.9S
56.8S
186.lS
309.lS
41.6S
223.30
6S.30
171.60
133.9S
S9.90
304.7S
204.7S
274.2S
120.10
198.SS
101.50
169.SS
222.60
103.70
241.65
216.95
SS0.80
138.40
40.05
180.0S
71.90
161.30
148.SO
239.SS
226.50
269.65
137.80
152.30
136.30
233.70
2S7.9S
152.0S
166.90
177.7S
67.75
218.40
179.00
175.25
171.90
216.9S
268.10
78.80
46.40
12S.60
81.3S
118.45
116.00
397.45

Home
Maintenance

100.40
96.40
73.20
27.60
92.40
108.40
24.40
104.80
32.80
73.60
6S.20
26.40
lS0.00
118.00
130.00
S3.60
90.80
S2.00
74.80
73.60
39.20
120.40
113.20
260.80
70.40
22.80
86.80
34.40
56.80
68.00
114.80
132.00
144.40
68.80
80.80
56.80
103.20
129.20
86.80
82.40
78.00
38.00
110.40
88.00
98.00
90.40
97.20
149.60
44.80
22.40
6S.60
39.60
S3.20
56.00
189.20

Home
Building

12S.SO
120.SO
91.50
34.SO
llS.SO
13S.SO
30.SO
131.00
41.00
92.00
81.SO
33.00
187.SO
147.SO
162.SO
67.00
113.50
6S.OO
93.SO
92.00
49.00
lSO.SO
141.50
326.00
88.00
28.50
108.SO
43.00
7.1.00
85.00
143.SO
165.00
180.SO
86.00
101.00
71.00
129.00
161.50
108.50
103.00
97.50
47.SO
138.00
110.00
122.50
113.00
121.50
187.00
S6.00
28.00
82.00
49.50
66.50
70.00
236.50

797

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00
Home
ContribU11ons

175.00
9SO.OO
4SO.OO
lS0.00
4SO.OO
l,42S.OO
47S.OO
7S.OO
47S.OO
2SO.OO
17S.OO
600.00
22S.OO
600.00
27S.OO
42S.OO
17S.OO
47S.OO
l,2SO.OO
500.00
S00.00
375.00
l,4S0.00
175.00
2S.OO
400.00
100.00
600.00
550.00
42S.OO
lS0.00
37S.OO
3S0.00
200.00
400.00
62S.OO
S2S.OO
7S.OO
300.00
S00.00
S0.00
400.00
300.00
125.00
22S.OO
67S.OO
225.00
7S.OO
12S.OO
200.00
150.00
300.00
2SO.OO
1,050.00

Total

S80.0S
1,411.SS
772.6S
268.9S
844.0S
1,978.05
96.SS
934.10
214.10
812.20
S30.6S
294.30
1,242.ZS
69S.2S
1,166.75
515.70
827.85
393.50
812.85
1,638,;20
691.90
1,012.55
846.6S
2,587.60
471.80
116.35
• 77S.35
249.30
889.10
8Sl.SO
922.85
673.50
969.55
642.60
534.10
664.10

1,090.90
1,073.65
422.35
652.30
8S3.25
203.25
866.80

677.00
520.75
600.30
l,110.6S
829.70
2S4.60
221.80
473.20
320.45
S38.1S
492.00
1,873.15

General
Fund

N~me of Lodge

538
S39
S40
S41
542
S43
S44
S4S
546
S47
548
549

sso

SSl
SS2
554
555
556
557
558
SS9
560
561
562
563
564
56S
566
567
568
S69
570
571
572
573
S74
575
576
577
578
579
580
S81
582
583
S84
58S
586
587
588
589
590
S91
592
593

Ascot....................~.......
Bel~dere.................•..
Queen Beach....•..........
H. M. Stephens......•...
Lankershim.................
Signal.........•...........•..;.
Glendale.......................
Jonathan......................
San Gabriel.................
Arcadia........................
Triangle.....................•
Justice..........................
Seaport..•.·-·················
Lakeshore...................
Semper Virens...........
Educator..................... ·
White Pine..........._...•
Fairfa:ic:........................
Hermosa......................
Point Firmin........... :..
Craftsman...................
Plymouth................•..•
E. San Diego..............
Pyramid......................
South Park.................
Foothill.........•..............
West Adams...............
James A. Garfield......
Searchligh~.................
Park Blvd....................
Chateau Thierry.~......
Military Service........
Francis K. Shattuck..
James Madison..........
Hillcrest......................
S. W. Hackett............
Fort Crook..................
El Cajon Valley.........
Sunnyside.....•............•.
Progressive....c•••••••••••
Warren G. Harding..
Santa Maria...............
Security.......................
Rialto................._...:....
Wasco.....:....................
Harding.................•.....
Manchester.................
Garden Grove.............
Valley Forge..............
El Sereno.......c•••••••, ....
Kauai...........................
Compass.......... _ .........
Escalon........................
Tujunga.......................·
All States....•......•..•......

.

184.SO
130.20
104.40
219.2S
271.40
24S.1S
27S.90
97.60
116.lS
106.80
121.90
1S8.2S
124.0S
133.3S
119.70
183.55
64.30
96.70
100.70
202.3S
220.95
196.25
397.50
143.45
268.7S
239.05
142.4S
99.75
279.15
197.10
198.40
212.90
141.3S
144.20 .
40.4S
287.45
74.60
64.95
211.10
216.30
234.50
60.70
165.10
66.8S
lll.55
9S.80
180.00
74.40
219.9S
219.85
100.6S
115.9S
60.40
137.4S
268.15

Home
Maintenance

92.00
7S.20
46.40
114.00
118.40
108.40
130.40
S7.60
60.40
S2.80
S0.40
66.00
62.80
71.60
55.20
98.80 .
32.80
47.20
47.20
103.60
97.20
90.00
148.00
77.20
126.00
102.80
77.20
54.00
132.40
93.60
86.40
98.40
71.60
67.20
21.20
93.20
33.60
25.20
101.60
112.80
84.00
23.20
8S.60
3S.60
58.80
S2.80
88.00
38.40
89.20
83.60
40.40
57.20
30.40
61.20
116.40

Home
Building

$25.00
Home
Contributions

llS.00
3SO.OO
94.00
100.00
22S.OO
S8.00
142.SO
32S.OO
148.00
8SO.OO
6SO.OO
13S.SO
163.00
72S.OO
72.00
2S.OO
7S.SO
12S.OO
66.00
200.00
63.00
42S.OO '
82.SO
S00.00
78.SO
17S.OO
89.SO
lS0.00
69.00
250.00
123.SO
22S.OO
41.00'
125.00
59.00 . 250.00
S9.00
225.00
129.50
37S.00
121.50
600.00
112.50
675.00
185.00 1,350.00
96.50
150.00
157.50
600.00
128.SO
650.00
22S.OO
96.SO
100.00
67.SO
700.00
16S.SO
450.00
117.00
108.00
S00.00
123.00
475.oo
89.SO
lS0.00
84.00
350.00
26.50
7S.OO
116.50 1,37S.OO
42.00
lS0.00
31.SO
200.00
127.00
475.00
141.00
375.00
105.00
875.00
29.00
225.00
107.00
22S.OO
. 44.50
7S.OO
225.00
73.50
66.00
100.00
110.00
42S.OO
125.00
48.00
111.50
8SO.OO
104.SO
87S.OO
so.so 3SO.OO
71.50
2SO.OO
38.00
125.00
76.50
350.00
14S.SO
72S.OO

Total

741.SO
399.40
433.80
800.7S
1,387.80
1,139.0S
1,294.30
2S2.20
377.0S
42S.60
660.30
806.75
440.3S
444.4S
493.90
630.85
263.10
452.90
431.90
810.45
1,039.65 1,073.75
2,080.50
467.15
1,152.25
1,120.35
541.15
321.25
l,277:05
857.70
892.80
909.30
4S2.45
64S.40
163.15
1,872.15
300.20
321.6S
914.70
84S.10
1,298.50
337.90
582.70
221.95
468.85
314.60
803.00
28S.80
1,270.6S
1,282.95
541.S5
494.6S
253.80
625.lS
1,2SS.OS

Name or LOdge

S94
S95
S96
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
60S
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
61S
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
62S
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
63S
636
637
638
639
640
641
642
643
644
645
646
647

Service.....•··········-······
Alexander G. Bell......
Guardian....:................
Pearl 'Harbor....:..:.....
Carmelita....................
-Lynwood.....................
Grizzly..........-..•...-····-·
Melrose..••.............•....•
Dimond.........:_........••
Jubilee.........................
Glassell Park....- ........
Sojourner.................... .
Granada.;.....................
Provident....................
Elmhurst.....................
Canoga~................•.••..
Temple City...............
Three Pillars...:..........
Larchmont··········-····Hemet......................-..
R. E. Dolley____;_••~..
Big Bear.................~....
Southland.....,..·-··· ....
Neptune.........·-···········
Point Loma.....- ........:.
The Gardens...............
Atwater.......................
Menorah......................
Fortitude.....................
Angeles Mesa....·-·····
Chula Vista.........·-·····
Lamanda Park...........
Truth...................•....-.
Fairview...·-····-··········
Ingleside................- ....
Benevolence....._.........
Normal Heights........
Poinsettia....................
Victorville...................
Riverside..................... .
John Marshall....·-·····
Palisades.....................
Indian Rock...............
Composite................... ·
Veritas...............·-····James A. Foshay....•..
La Cumbre.................
Alta Loma..................
Lomita................._......
A. F. E. Irwin ............
Metropolitan....-........
Hawthorne..................
648 Damascus...:................
649 Florence..............•.......
650 La Brea......................•

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

298.7S
134.4S
356.SO
541.80
160.65
149.90
86.30
128.25
139.65
1S3.10
168.90
50.lS
349.00
1S3.50
116.05
80.80
113.2S
167.30
137.15
74.45
68.3S
36.8S
144.60
117.40
159.9S
203.SO
176.8S
322.15
102.10
256.9S
121.10
96.lS
] 18.3S
92.lS
82.0S
152.40
266.S5
279.85
90.2S
147.70
90.3S
183.8S
111.0S
134.0S
63.SO
102.80
70.SO
171.45
116.4S
136.9S
61.70
130.35
224.75
2SS.OO
129.70

134.00
69.20
140.00
132.80
80.40
58.40
40.80
50.00
72.40
69.60
90.40
28.40
136.00
76.00
54.80
44.80
,S0.00
80.80
76.40
37.20
31.60
19.60
73.60
46.40
57.20
84.00
7S.60
148.40
S3.60
129.20
45.60
44.40
63.60
44.40
38.80
78.40
90.80
131.60
34.00
71.20
39.60
83.60
54.80
62.80
36.00
44.80
36~00

93.20
4S.20
65.20
31.20
39.60
94.00
96.00
71.20

Home
Bulld!ng

799

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

'798

$25.00
Home
Contributions

Total

i,425::?5
82S.OO
200.00.
490.lS
1,846.50
1,175.00
3,990.60
3,lS0.00
716.55
37S.OO
881.,30
noo 600.00
175.00
353.1.0
Sl.00
690.75
450.00
62.50
527.SS ,
225.00
90.50
7S9.70
450.00
87.00
597.30
113.00 .. 225.00
114.0S
35.SO
2,030.00
170.00 1,375.00
524.50
200.00
95.00
489.3S
250.00
68.50
23L60
50.00
S6.00
S15.7S
350.00
62.50
724.Hl
101.00 . 37S.OO:
200.00
509.0S
95.SO
2S8JS
100.00
46.SO
314AS
175.00
39.SO
100.00 .
180.9S
24.SO
.225.oo
535.20
92.00
671.Bb
4SO~OO
S8.00
625:00
913.65
71.SO
1,017-:SO
lOS.00 . 625.00
.. 896.9S
SS0'.00
94.SO
1,SS6.0S
185.50
900.00
~- 322. 70
67.00 .. 1-00.00
S50.0(). . 1,097.6S
161.50
S75.00 ... 798.70
S7.00
446.05
2S0.00
SS.SO
411.4S
lS0.00
79.SO
442'.0S
2SO.OO
SS.SO
344.35
17S.OO
48.SO
' 603.80
275.00
98.00
1,64S.85
113.SO 1,17S.OO
1,22S.95
650.00
164.50
541.75
37S.OO
42.50
707.90
400.00
89.00
479.45
300.00
49.50
946.95
104.SO
S7S.OO
409.3S
17S.OO
68.SO
650.35
78.SO
375.00
169.SO
2S.OO
45.00
478.60
27S.OO
56.00
lS0.00
301.50
4S.OO
200.00
S81.15
116.50
400.00
618.15
56.50
S83.65
81.SO
300.00
181.90
39.00
S0.00
944.4S
49.SO
725.00
1,211.25
117.50
775.00
120.00
900.00
1,371.00
225.00
514.90
89.00
167.SO
g(),SO
175.00
166.00
100.SO

(

0

Name or Lodge

6Sl Menlo Park.................
6S2 Crescenta Valley........
653 Fontana.....--··············
654 Jordan........., ............- ..
6S5 Monte Vista...............
6S6 Citro!..........................•
657 John D. Spreckels....•
658 Livingston.........·-····6S9 La Habra....................
660 Baldwin Park...·-····-·
661 Malta................- .........
662 Henry Knox.'.......~......
663 Ojai...·-··············-····665 Kaweah. ......................
666 Reseda...........·-·····-····
667 Meridian....................•
668 San Gorgonio.............
669 John P. Jarman..........
670 Greenleaf................-••
671 San Clemente..........-.
672 Laguna Beach......•..•••
673 Far Wesl.········-·········
674 Los Cerritos...·-···-···
67S Modesto.........·-···········
676 Willow Glen........•..••.•
677 Liberal Arts.........·-···
678 Altadena......................
679 Canby's Cross............
680 Carmel......................-.
681 Dos Palos .................
682 Barstow....................
683 Redwood Empire...
684 Trana........................

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

70.90
108.9S
63.65
12S.8S
286.70
96.80
282.2S
64.15
91.40
45.60
86.SO
236.25
39.SO
63.ZS
78.70
192.10
91.2S
116.SO
187.00
2S.7S
67.00
llS.10
97.30
178.70
119.40
7S.80
16S.60
67.20
S6.2S
3-5.SS
85.SS
13.6S
91.95

34.40
49.20
32.40
S9.60
119.20
S2.80
130.00
28.40
38.40
2S.60
44.00
106.00
20.00
26.00
39.20
77.60
42.00
52.00
88.00
14.00
32.00
61.60
48.80
79.20
46.40
36.80
81.60
27.20
26.00
18.80
26.80
8.40
25.20

Home
Bu!ldlng

$25.00
Home
Contributions

43,00
22S.OO
37S.OO
61.50
100.00
40.50
2S0.00'
74.SO
149.00 l,02S.OO
100.00
66.00
67S.OO
162.SO
175.00
3S.SO
27S.OO
48.00
50.00
32.00
125.00
SS.00
132.SO
7SO.OO
75.00
2S.OO
2SO.OO
32.SO
200.00
49.00
6SO.OO
97.00
250.00
S2.SO
275.00
6S.OO
450.00
110.00
25.00
17.SO
12S.OO
40.00
125.00
77.00
17S.OO
61.00
600.00
99.00
475.00
58.00
lS0.00
46.00
32S.OO
102.00
175.00
34.00
150.00
32.50
100.00
23.50
475.00
33.SO
10.50
4SO.OO
31.SO

Total

373.30
S94.65
236.55
509.9S
1,579.90
31S.60
1,249.75
303.05
452.80
153.20
310.SO
1,224.7S
1S9.50
371.7S
366.90
1,016.70
43S.7S
S08.50
835.00
82.2S
264.00
378.70
382.10
9S6.90
698.80
308.60
67420
303.40
264.7S
177.8S
620.8S
32.5S
S98.6S

Final ·Total....:................... $101,182.75 50,S98.00 63,247.SO 194,225.00 409.2S3.2S

GENERAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS

Standing Committees
Special Committees
Constitutional Boards
Directors Masonic Clubhouses
Report of Credentials Committee
.l

List of Subordinate Lodges
Extinct Lodges
Elected Officers Since Organization
List of Inspectors
Foreign Grand Lodges
Alphabetical List. of Lodges
Report of Correspondence Committee

802

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

STANDING COMMITTEES
Jurisprudence:
Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles 14.
George L. Jones, Nevada City.
Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco 4.
John Stewart Ross, 1017 El Paso Drive, Los Angeles 42.
Earl Warren, State Capitol, Sacramento.
John W. Shenk, State Building, San Francisco 2.
Arthur Paulsen, Wea·v erville, California.
Policy and General Purposes:
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 13. ·
Albert E. Boynton, 775 Post Street, San ~rancisco 9.
Will H . Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles 53. ·
Frank W. Mixter, Exeter.
Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock Building, San Francisco 5.
William B. Ogden, 650 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 14.
Rollie W. Miller, Associated Realty Building, Los Angeles 14.
Grievances:
Frank B. Belcher, 510 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 13.
Olin L. Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco 3.
Louis C. Drapeau, Court House, Ventura.
Joe L. Shell, County Court House, San Diego.
Lowell L. Sparks (32), 1134 High Street, Auburn.
Finance:
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield. ,
Frank C. Ruppel, 411 Masonic Temple, San Francisco 2.
Raymond W. Blosser, 220 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco 2.
F. Wesley Davies, 849 San Vicente Rd., Rancho Santa Anita, Aq:adia.
Ellsworth Barnett (~7), Santa Rosa.
Credentials:
Louis Sutter, Anglo-California National Bank, San Francisco 20.
Ralph E . Smith, 3227 No. Figueroa Street, Los Angeles.
Alvin W. Wendt, 2325 N. Catalina Street, Los Angeles.
Thomas I. Lingo (655), 3905 C-alifornia Avenue, Long Beach.
Paul E. Stretch ( 450), 3920 Carpenter Court, Studio City.
Charters:
Glen Holmes, Dos Palos.
Harry J . Tolliver (256), 27 So. Sacramento Street, Lodi.
Ellsworth Williard (26), Placerville.
·
William R. Hervey, Jr. (lW2), 458 So. Spring Street, Los Angeles 13.
Dwight C. Freeman (369), Ocean Park.
By-Laws:
Oakley K. Morton, Courthouse, Riverside.
Andrew R. Schottky, Mariposa.
Cecil Prior, 808 South Bradfield, Compton.
George T. Morrison (275), Oakdale.
Edgar G. Lone (55), Vacaville.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

803

Pay of Members:
John W. Davey, 2164 Hyde treet, San Fra'ncisco 9.
Lloyd C. Campbell, 1504 S. Marguerita. Avenue, Alhambra.
William F. Haskell (294), Kingsburg.
Louis G. Sutton (288), Maxwell.
Roger D. MacPherson, 501 Second Street, Oceanside.
Accounts: (All San Francisco)
Dwight N. Deane, 109 Noriega Street 22.
William E. Bouton, 340 Kearny Street 4.
James Hurst, 344 Kearny Street 4.
George D. Horn, 150 Van Ness Avenue 2.
Donald B. Ryan, 1285 Alemany Blvd. 12.
Returns:
Henry G. Mathewson, State Building, San Francisco 2.
William W. McKee, 326 Chapala Street, Santa Barbara.
Albert C. Wollenberg, 963 Flood Bldg., San Francisco 2.
Fred Schlichting (38), 265 Seabright Avenue, Santa Cruz.
Alfred P. Davies (678), 631 Sacramento St., Altadena.
Necrology:
Arthur P . Crim, Redlands.
Ross Roper, 1009 Oakes Blvd., San Leandro.
George Jean (211), Hollister.
Correspondence:
Henry C. Clausen, Mills Tower, San Francisco 4.
Oscar Olson, 3419 Montecito, Fresno.
Frederick 0. Eaton, 781 .Laurel Street, San 'Jose.
Chas. S. Pioda, Salinas.
Herbert G. Polhill (327), Long Beach.
Clandestine Masonry:
,
Warren E. Libbey, 541 South Spring, Arcade Bldg., Los Angeles, 13.
John Alpers, 547 Alvarado Street, San Francisco 14.
Orla A . Pratt, Calexico.
Frank J;> .. Roullard, Court House, Fresno.
Gayle Haughton, Jr., Trona.
Alfred P. Davies, 631 Sacramento Street, Altadena.

.,
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
Lodge Financing:
Francis V. Keesling, 315 Montgomery Street, San Francisco 4.
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield.
Harry E .. White, Fresno.
Walter E . Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 13.
Walton E. Holmes, Capital National Bank, Sacramento 14.
Ritual:
Chester H. Warlow, Security-First National Bank of Los Angeles,
Fresno.
Charles A. Schwartz, 1622 Ninth Street, Sacramento, 14.
Arthur M. Warren, Bank of California, Mission .Branch, San Francisco 3. ·
.
" ·
Obed W . Carr, 207 Dolores A venue, Exeter.
Sidney K. Lehman, 8206 West Fourth Street, Los Angeles ·36.

804

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic History:
,
Leon 0. Whitsell, 1565 Newlands Avenue, Burlingame.
W. C. Arbuckle, 988 Franq.uette Avenue, San Jose.
W. A. Chalfant, Bishop.
Chas. E. Haas, Superior Court, Los Angeles.
Charles R. Ingram, 322 East Main Street, Grass Valley.
Wilson E. Newlon, 981 Miller Avenue, Berkeley.
Thomas Norris, Livermore.
David Tulloch, Oakdale.
Guy J. Giffen, 790 Bay Street, San Francisco 9.
Milliard W. Young, 1940 Ninth Avenue, Sacramento.
Martin C. Arthur, 7.30 San Benito Street, Hollister."
Miles McK. Anderson, 325 B Street, San Mateo.·
James M. Barkley, Benicia. ·
Roy L. Haglund, Citizens Nat'! Bank, Riverside.
Masonic Information
Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles 14.
N. Perry Moerdyke, 311 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Delbert Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco 3.
Richard H. Chamoerlain, 114 Manor Drive, Piedmont.
George C. Jensen, Asst. Superintendent of Schools, Sacramento.
Rudolph Jenny, 5823 Patton Street, Oakland.
Public Schools .Week:
Chas. Albert Adams, Chairman, Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco.
Vaughn MacCaughey, 155 Sansome Street, San Francisco.
Robert A. Odell, 524 Van Nuys Bldg., Los Angeles.
Jesse W. Warner, 1605 Poplar Street, Fresno.
Hiram H. Hendren, c/o Valley Insurance Agency, 1601 J Street, Sacramento.
Hiram G. Dillin, 1034 Cypress Way, San Diego.
Social Security and Unemployment Tax:
R. P. Wisecarver, 315 Montgomery Street; San Francisco 4.
James E. Hamond, Hunter-Dulin Building, San Francisco 4.
' Walter Perry Johnson, 111 Sutter Street, San Francisco 4.
Lodge of Research:
William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 13.
Leon 0 . Whitsell, 1565 Newlands Avenue, Burlingame.
Ellsworth Meyer, 207 South Broadway, Los Angeles 54.

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
Endowment Board:
Frank M. Smith, Department 19, 15th Floor, City Hall Tower, Los
Angeles 12.
William Rhodes· Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 13.
Edmund A. Lockett, 522 South Raymond Street, Pasadena.
Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco 4.
Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles 14.
Harry F. White, Fresno.
Louis C. Drapeau, Court House, Ventura.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

805

Ernest G. Bashor, 600 Edwards-Wildey Building, Los Angeles.
Rollie W. Miller, Associat.ed Realty Building, Los Angeles 14.
James T. Fraser, Eureka.
Ira D. Wheeler, Box 891, Santa Monica.
Carl E. Miller, Capital National Bank, Sacramento 14.
Henry G. Hill, San Jose.
Omo E. Tyler, 3921 Kansas Street, San Diego.
Raymond Taylor, Bakersfield.
Hubert C. Grigsby, 141 North 20th Street, Montebello.
Board of Control:
Eugene S. Elkus, 301 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco 2.
James R. Erskine, 3248 Huntington Boulevard, Fresno 2.
Ben G. Wright, 2192 Cambridge Street, Los Angeles 6.
Jack C. Butler, 218 Capital National Bank Building, Sacramento 14.
John T. Martin, ~170 7th Avenue, San Diego.1.
Trustees of Masonic Home:
Chas. M. Wollenberg, President, 2070 Pacific Avenue, San Francisco 9.
James B. Gist, Vice-President, 561 So. Spring Street, Los Angeles 13.
Samuel E. Burke, 208 Western Building, Los Angeles 5.
Chas Albert Adams, Monadnock Building, San Francisco 5.
Gilbert C. DeForest, Redding.
Lawrence C. Kelley, 203 Union Oil Building, Los Angeles 14.
Arthur W. Brouillet, Humboldt Bank Bldg., San Francisco 3.

DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUBHOUSES
Berkeley:
John D. Murphey, Chairman, 1911 Parker Street, Berkeley 4.
Milton T. Farmer, Balboa Building, San .Francisco 5.
Chas. Albert Adams, Monadnock Building, San Francisco 5.
William B. Herms, 2032 Del Norte, Berkeley.
Waldo F. Postel, Kohl Building, San Francisco 4.
Carlisle D. Nielsen, 170 Ardmore Road, Berkeley.
Boyd B. Rakestraw, 123 Tamalpais Road, Berkeley.
R. P. Wisecarver, 315 Montgomery Street, San Francisco 4.
Edw. H. Siems, 1106 Broadway, Oakland 4.
Los Angeles:
Ben G. Wright, Chairman, 2192 Cambridge Street, Los Angeles 6.
Walter L . Berger, Secretary, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles 13.
Thomas B. Buchan, 515 West Seventh Street, Los Angeles.
Will H . Fischer,.601 West Fifth Street, Los Angeles 53.
Ellsworth Meyer, 207 South Broadway, Los Angeles 54.
Marco R. Newmark; 977 Arapahoe Street, Los Angeles.
John Stewart Ross, 1017 El Paso Drive, Los Angeles 42.
Clyde C. Shoemaker, Hall of Justice, Los Angeles.
Dana R. Weller, 704 South" Spring Street, Los Angeles 14.
Oscar Lawler, 800 Standard Oil Building, Los Angeles.
John A. Kkirquist, 618 South Western Avenue, Los Angeles.
William B. Ogden, 650 South Spring Street,- Los Angeles 14.
D. K. Bjork, 405 Hilgard Avenue, Los Angeles.

806

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Credentials reports that the following members
of Grand Lodge have presen.t ed their credentials and are entitled to participate in its deliberations:
Name or Lodi;e

No. or Lodge

California............- ..·-········No.

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

L .. Edward C. Lohmeyer, Master
Bruce Q. Engle, Sr. Warden

Harvey .Teller, Past Master
Thornhill Carmany, Past Master
James Hurst, Past Master
Francis. V. Keesling, Grap.d
. Trea$urer and Past Grand Master
Western Star.............- .....No. 2 ..... Andrew Eugene Brown, Master...... 22.20
Jesse W. Carter, Past Master
Tehama...............................No. 3.... Vyvan Burket Lansberry, Master.... 5.90
George Ashley Ambrose, Sr.
Warden
Alfred C. Story, Junior Warden
Charles A . Schwartz,. Assistant
Grand Lecturer ... .:........................... 5.90
B enicia..........:.,........:.....:..:.No. 5.~-~Charles H. Byerrum, Master........-.. 2.30
Tuolumne.......:'.:.....:.....::..~.N o. 8.... Bert G. Bullock; Re~resentative........ 7.30
Corinthian.......................... N o. 9....Jesse Davis McClung, Master............ 8.30
Archie Ingvoldsen, Sr. Warden
James W . Robinson, Inspector........ 8.30
Geor·g e W. Williams, Junior Grand
Deacon ................................................ 8."30
San Jose ........................- ....No. 10.... Leroy Paul Kantlehner, Master........ 3.20
Victor Henry Thureson, Sr.
Warden
Joseph Greenley, Inspector................ 3.20
John A. Fair, Past Master
Yount........;......................... No. 12.... Clarence N. Riggins, ' :Master............ 3.20
W. C. Jensen, Sr. Warden
Nevada................................No. 13.... (No attendance)
Temple...............................No. 14.... Louis Bosch, Master............................ 3.00
Oscar Frederick Vehn, Sr. Warden
Eureka................................ No. 16....Henry T . Broocks, Master................ 8.40
Bernard L . Haines, Past Master
La Parfaite Union....- ....No. 17.... Anthony Auradow, Inspector
Henri Mottet, Past Master
Prosper Sainges, P;i.st Master
Rene Canonica, Past Master
M. E. Diebold, Past Master
·Mountain Shade.............:.No. 18.... Stanley N. McCormick, Past Master 22.80
SanJoaquin................,.......No. 19.... (No attendance)
Washington......,.....,..........No. 20..:.Champ Clark :Smith, Master.............. 5.90
Herbert A. Danielson, Sc. Warden
Ross ]. Lowry, Jr. Warden
Hawaiian............................ No. 21.... Alexander Potts, Representative .

Name or Lodi;e

No. or Lodge

Representatives

807
Mileage Allowed

Occidental..........................No. 22.... Robert S. Peters, Master
.
Wilfred J. Kumli, Jr. Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Inspector
Ralph K. Marshall, Grand. Tiler
Karl J. Jacobs; Past .Master
William E. Bonlon, Past Master
Madison.............................. No. 23 ....John Thomas, Master .......................... 11.00
William Meyers, Sr. Warden
Charles R. Ingram, Past Master
George L. Jones,
Past Grand Master.......................... 11.30
Mariposa........................ _.No. 24....James R. McElligott, Past Master
and Representative.......................... 19.20
Joseph Jenkins, Past Master
Georgetown.-.................-No. 25 .... George A. French, Past Master
El DoradQ..........................No. 26....John Herbert Palmer, Master.......... 9.80
Harry Jasper, Inspector...................... 9.80
Trlnity................................ No. 27.... George Wallace Waller, Master...... 20.20
Arthur<Paulsen, Grand Orator.......... 20.20
Golden Gate...................... No. 30.... Fred Alexander Bradley, Master
Harry K. Widup, Sr. Warden
John Daniel Jones, Jr. Warden
A. F. Heuer, Pas~ Master
Edward A. Didier, Past Master
Gold HiiL.......................... No. 32.... Austin Deal Grey, Master-................ 7.80
Ophir-· -·······-········-····..··No. 33....John T . Morley, Past Master and
Representative ....- - ......................... 6.00
San Dicgo.........._...............No. 35 .... Alden J. Fulkerson, Master................ 46.60
Andrew A. Peterson, Jr. Warden
·
James B. McLees, Inspector.............. 46.60
Claude H. Morrison,
Deputy Grand Master.................... 46._60
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master
Geo. W. Elder, Past Master
Joseph L . Shell, Past Master............. 46.60
Fred M. Thompson, Past Master
Howard..............................No. 37.... Walter B. Hibbard, Sr. Warden.... 27.80
Santa Cruz.........................No. 38....Alvin Leo Vveymouth, Sr. Warden 5.20
Henry Kaiser, Inspector.................... 5.20
S. M. Barber, Past Master
Sacramento........................No. 40.... Charles M. Smith, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 5.90
Martinez............................. No. 41.... Lewis A. Penn, Master...................... 2.30
Louis Mittelman, Inspector................ 2.30
Los Angeles........- ........._No. 42....Joseph David Weisberg, Master...... 38.20
Sidney K. Lehman,
Assistant Grand Lecturer.........."... 38.20
Hiram.................................No. 43.... Robert Bennett Penney,
Jr. Warden........................................:;, 9:4o
Mount Moriah.................. No. 44.... Keith Cutten Murray, Master
Alphonse Fred Mailloux,
Sr. Warden
E. E. Keough, Past Master
J . ]. Stahl, Past Master
Roy A. Pratt, Past Master
D. B. Richards, Past Master

808
Name of Lod~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Crescent.............................No. 45 .... Andrew Lee Flynn, Master................ 24.70
'l'exas.................................. No. 46.... David F. Wright, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 5.60
Forbestown....................... N o. 50....J ack Popper, Master...........................•· 9.90
Illinoistown....................... No. 51.... Cyrus Wm. Manuel, Master............ 9.50
Suisun................- .............No. 55 .... Harry Nelson, Inspector...... _.............. · 4.30
Vokano:•............................No. 56.... Swan S. Tremelling, Master............ 6.00
Santa Rosa.........................No. 57.... Ernest F. Pegg, Jr., Master................ 5.10
John F. Aisen, Sr. Warden
Ivan G. Williams, Jr. Warden
Karl F. Stolting, Inspector.............. 5.10
Raford W. Leggett, Past Master
James T. Mailer, Past Master
Frank F. Marvin, Past Master
Union...............:...._............ No. 58.... Harry A. Nauman, Jr.; Master.......... 5,90
Leighton D. Armstrong, Inspector · 5.90
Jessie P. Bascom, Past Master
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range.................... No. 59 .... Acton M. Cleveland, Representative 11.30
Plumas..............................• No. 60.... (No attendance)
Live Oak............................ No. 61.. .. Ernest A. Hoffman, Master
Clarence G. Warren, Sr. Warden
Regi~ald M. Mills, Past Master
Carl ]. Macintire, Past Master
Natoma...................•...... ~..• No. 64.... Harvey David Bicker, Sr., Master.... 7.30
Amador...•.......•..- .............. No. 65 .... Guy Vernon Towsley, , Master....:..... 5.60
Forcst.........................'........ No. 66.... Lester Llewllyn My"ers, Master........ 17.90
Morning Star..................... No. 68.... Stanley H. Wentz, Sr. Warden...... 5.60
Andrew Cates, Sr. Grand Deacon.... 5.60
Enterprise.•........................No. 70.... Herbcrt E. Crowhurst, Sr. Warden 8.30
Hugh D. Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain..................No.. 76.... Barnie M. Baratone, Jr. Warden...... 5.90
Calaveras ............................No. 78.... (No attendance)
Humboldt... ....................... No. 79....Harold P. Johnson, Jr. Warden........ 24.70'
.
Howard B. Melendy, Past Master
James T. Frazier,
Past Grand Master.......................... 24.70
Ione............ :........................No. 80....A. C. Allread, Sr. Warden............c... 4.00
Joseph W. Sibole, Inspector.. v··--···· 5.60
Yolo.................................... No. 81..:.Hosmer B. Haydrm, Representative 6.10
Vesper...........................:.... No. ·84.... Leonard G. Zielke, Jr. Warden........ 17.90
Naval...................................No. 87.... Arnold Lucius Olsen, Master.......... 2.20
Mark T. Andrews, Past Master
· Frederick Graff, Past Master
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
·R ose's Bar.......................:..No. 89....Lewis D. Hopfield, Past Master
North Star...... :...•.............•No. 91.... (No attendance)
St. Helena.................:........ No. 93 .... Cecil Aguirre, Master.......................... 4.40
Archie Johnson, Sr. Warden
Henry Cla-y........................ No. 95.... Christopher Obradovich, Master...... 6.00
Hornitos.................:........... No. 98.... Wilson Ernest Lathrop, Master........ 17.00
· Clyde Elwyn Sweet, Sr. Warden
George Andrew Bates, Jr. Warde~
Yo!!emite............•.........,.'.... No. 99.... 0wen L. Craghead,
Inspector and Representative........ 13.90
Andrew Robert Schottky,
Past Master........................................ 18.20

Name of Lo<fb'e

·No. of Lodge

Representatives

809
M!leage Allowed

Clay.............. :_.... .......:.;.....No. 101.... Earl T. Vincent, Master.................... 15.00
Or~ville .............................. No. 103 .... George S. Dyer, Jr. Warden............ 9.90
Harold L. Mason, Inspector............ 9.90
Lexington .......................... No. 104:... William H. Baker, Master.................. 39.20
William Lyle Gray, Sr. Warden
Frank M. Wright, Inspector.............. 39.50
Arcata.....,..............:.....:......No. 106....James H. McCord, Sr. Warden ........ 24.70
Pajaro.........,..........'............. No. 110.... William Haufe, Master...................... 6.60
Chico.................................. No. 111....Morell Mace Reynolds, Sr. Warden .. 11:10
Surnmit.. .............................N o. 112.... (No attendance)
Eden.................................... N o. 113 .... Lars T. Thompson, Master
Sidney B. Force, Past Master
Howard L. Leard, Past Master
Concord...:.:.......................:No. 117.... Ralph Elmer Crenshaw, Master........ 5.90
Ralph Hall Langner, Sr. Warden
Fidelity......................'.........No. 120.... Rabbi Morris Goldstein, Master
Samuel L. Fendel, ·sr. Warden
Abraham Jacobs, Past Master
Milton D. Sapiro, Past Master
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Phillipp Jacobovics, Past Master
Alamo................................. No. 122.... Ralph Max Hinds, Jr. Warden.......... 2.50
Charles G. Faisst, Past Master
Sotoyome ........,..................No. 123.... Leland Herbert Dibble, Master.......... 4.50
Table Mountain.. .'............. No. 124....(No attendance)
La Fayette...................c••••• No. 126.... Curtis G. Stange, Master.................. 3.30
Hertnann ........:...................No. 127.... Moritz Dietrich, Mastel'.
Karl George Albuschkat, Sr. Warden
Henry Harde, Jr. Warden
George Mammen, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
John Behrens, Inspector
Louis Muller, Past Master
Hans E. Warncke, Past Master
Visalia................................ No. 128.... Rudolph Francis Loewe,
Sr. Warden .......................................... 20.40
Daniel McFadzean, Past Master
and Grand Bible Bearer.................. 6.80
Nicolaus............................~ No. 129... .]ames Fraser Taresh, Master............ 8.30
Woodbridge ...................... No. 131....John MacArthur, Sr. Warden.........::.: . 6.00
Sincerity............................. No. 132.... C. C. Siebe, Sr. Warden .................... 31.30
Vacaville.......c•••••••••••••••••••••No. 134.... George S. Bassford, Master.,....... ,,.,:.~· 4.30
Calvin Wells Mace, Sr. Warden
Valley.,....................:.'......... No. 135.... Walter Freemans, Representati~e.... 5.60
Ralph M. Foote, Inspector................ 5.60
Pacific.................................No. 136....Jesse A. Mueller, Master
William J. McAllister, Sr. Warden
Gerald S. Levin, Jr. Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Allen J. Rosenberg, Past Master
Joseph Ehling, Past Mastei: ..
Charles E. Jackson, Past Master
Wm. ] : Dawson, Past Master
Ge.o. H. Raymond, Past Master

810
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. o! Lodge

Representatives

Mlleage Allowed

Crockett............................. No. 139.... Hanns H. Stratmann, Master
Charles Silas McGlothlin,
Sr. Warden
Richard Eugene .Schreiber,
Jr. Warden
William A. H. Fleischer, Inspector
W. H. Mason, Past Master
Bernard Pedersen, Past Master
Neal A. Cleveland, Past Master
Francis Daly, Past Master
Curtis...........,...................•_No. 140.... Arthur Wm. Foster, Master.............. 5.20
Grafton.................. ~............ N o. 14L. (No attend;mce)
Franklin............................. No. 143.... Ellwood P. Bunnell, Jr. Warden.... 4.00
Oriental......................'........No. 144.... Milton Joseph Burgkart, Master
George D. Gavin, Sr. Warden
Albin J. Thompson, Jr. Warden
A. ]. Snow, Past Master
Graham Pearson, Past Master
Ralph E. Shupe, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Delbert L. Berry, Past Master
Lawrence P. Hansen, Past Master
Edwin Hansen, Past Master'
George B. Lake, Past Master
Vitruvius,...........................No. 145....Eugene Brown, Sr. Warden...........,.. 2.60
Frank Geisel, Jr. Warden
Holberg P. Kristensen, Past Master
Abell................_.................No. 146.... F.r ed A. Nassie, Representative........ 5.40
E. M. Hopper, Inspector:..........,........ 12.60
Eel River...........................No. 147....Adolph A. Kaski, Sr. Warden............ 21.30
·
Curtis D. Reese, Past Master and
Sr. Grand Steward............................ 21.30
Walter G. Orman, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 18.50
Lassen ......... ~ .......................No. 149.... Carl N. Lewis, Master.......................... 24.60
Molino........................:~...... No. 150.... Glen Vord Belnap, Sr. Warden........ 12.40
W~odland.......~ .•..~.............No. 156.... Stewart Crans.ton, Jr. Warden........ 5.70
Keystone ...~ ......._:.........:.... No. 161....J. F . Helms, Past Master and
,·
·
· .. · ·
Representative ······················'········•·· 6.00
Harmony_.............;...:.·:....... No. 164.... Erriest M. Innes, Past Master .and
Representative .................................. 22.80
Excelsior.,.............•.....:..•...N o. 166.... Cecile Clifford Schulze, Master
·
Paul S. Sand, Sr. Warden
Bert T. Baker, Inspector
James W. Crosby, Past Master
Charles A. Adams, Past Grand Master
W. Blair Rixon, Past Master
Fred W. Knight, Past Master
Alameda............................. No. 167.... Ralph Addison Richmond, Master.... 2.50
Ramon Barnum, Sr. Warden
Redwood City.................. ~No. 168.... H. W. Potts, Master............................ 1.80
··
A. W. Russell, Sr. Warden
Theodore M. Cole, Past Master
L. A. Heiner, Past Master

Name or Lodi;e ,

No. or Lodge

Representatives

811
Mileage Allowed

Mis!lion.........:..-.:'r"··'-•·:......No. 169.... William E. Nutz, Master
"
Arthur Frediani, Sr. Warden
Elmer 0 . Murray, Jr. Warden
Robert E. Allan, Past Master
Geo. L. Edmonson, Past Master
Elk Grove.................- ....... No. 173.... Daniel Louis Botto, Jr. Warden........ 5.90
Drytown............................. No. 174....James Ross, Sr. Warden...................... 6.00
Antioch.........................:.....No. 175 ....John Robert Boyd, Master................ 3.60
William Frazier, Sr. Warden
Phoenix.............................. No. 178.... Arthur LeRoy Spence, Master........ 42.10
William E. Young, Past Master..:..... 42.10
Jesse W . Curtis, Past Master
.
Mendocino............:............No. 179.... Volney Gabbert, Jr. Warden.....,...... 18.50
Petaluma:........................... No. 180.... Christian Nissen Lind, Master.......... 2.60
'
Stephen Clay Olmstead, Past Master
Russian River...•............... No. 181....John V. Cleek, Master........................ 11.60
Arbuckle..............- ..,......... No. 182.... (No attendance)
. Clear Lake......................... No. 183.... Bruce VI'. Macomber, Master............ 5.00
Sierra Valley...........,..•.....• No. 184.... (No attendance)
Claiborne............................No. 185 .... George Myland, Sr. Warden ............ 18.50
Evening Star..................... No. 186.... (No attendance)
Keith .................~ .............. _No. 187.... Kirby Lee McAtee, Sr. Warden...... 5.20 .
Geo. E. Skillicorn, Sr., Past Master
Oakland....................':.........No. 188.... William J . Kitto, .Master
John Gethin Evans, Sr. Warden
John .A. Stohr, Past Master
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Will R. Hill, Past Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Jr., Past Master
Frank A. West, Past Master
·
Robert B. Gaylord, Sr.,
Past Grand Master
Northern Light.................No. 190....John Kite, Jr. Warderi........................ 20.20
Marin.................................. No. 191.... Clinton T. Duffy, Mast er
Amasa Geo. Oakley, Sr. Warden
Ernest F. Zubler, Jr. Warden
Henning S. Vandel, Past Master
H orace W. Rice, Past Master
Santa Barbara................... No. 192.... La Vern Dorman, Master.................. 30.20
John MacKellar, Sr. Warden
Ira E. Kramer, Past Master and
Grand Sword Bearer.. ...................... 30.20
John McRoe, Past Master
Horace L. Miller, Past Master
.
Ferndale............................. No. 193....Jos. Scott Shaw, Sr. Warden .........::. 2f1o
Mountain View................No. 194.... Willis E . Hester, Master...................... 2.00
Buckeye.•....•.......................No. 195.... Buell Jsh, Past Master..............-...... 5.20
San Simeon........................No . .196....Marcus L . Waltz, Master.. ................ 21.10
Wilmington....................... No. 198....Chas. E . Moore, Master...................... 38.2q
Hartley...............................No. 199....Burt W. Busch, Jr. Warden.............. 6.40
Guido de Ghetaldi, Inspector............ 6.40
Clarence Cope, Past Master
0

'
812
Name or Lodi;;e

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allnwtd

Truckee........---··················No. 200.... William Harold Laity, Jr. Warden.. 18.60
Silveyville..................,....... No. 201.. ..Homer Hampton Sisson, Master.... 4.SO
Pentalpha...........................No. 202 .... Nevin Alfred Bustrum, Master.......... 38.20
Ralph Edwin Hull, Sr. Warden
James B. Gist, Past Grand Master 38.20'
Lawrence C. Kelley,
Jr. Grand Warden......................... _. 38.20
William Rhodes Hervey,
Past Grand Master........................•. 38.20
Confidence......................... No. 203 ....Walter C. Buttle, Master.................... 7.20
SaJiiias"·""·······················:.No. 204.... Wm. Henry Bingaman, Master........ 7.60
William E . Kline, Jr. Warden
·
Olivet.................................. No. 205.... 0tto B. Liersch, Pas~ Master and
Representative .................................• 11.90
Stanislaus ........:..................No. 206....Howard H . Thurber, Sr. Warden.... 6.80
Anaheim....'......;..................No. 207.... Ralph W. Seward, Master.. ~............. 40.10
Charles E. Organ, Sr. Warden
Rio Vista..............•............. No. 208.... C. E. Stewart, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 6.00
King David's..................... No. 209.... Earl S. Wise, Jr. Warden..............:... 21.10
William A. Sharp, Inspector............ 21.10
Friendship........................•No. 210....Arthur Everett Caton, Master......-..... 3.20
Wm. Benedict Hiner, Sr. Warden
.
San Benito......................... No". 211.... Fred W. Rohnert, Sr. Warden.......... 6.10
So. San Francisco.............N o. 212.... Frederick Junker, Master
James Chalmers, Jr. Warden
Harry M. Andrews, Sr. Warden
Charles F. Hensel, Past Master
.
William G. Green, Past Master '
San Buenaventura ............No. 214.... Carl Alfred Miller, Sr. Warden........ 33.20
·
Victor Albert Parker, Jr. Warden
Oak Grove......................... No. 215 ....William Nankervis, Jr., Master
Sidney Glab, Sr. Warden
Doric........................'.:.'........ No. 216.... Manuel Lafee, Past Master
Monterey........................... No. 217.... Clarence J . Martin, Sr. Warden........ 8.10
Mosaic.............- ................No. 218.... George Harvey Saunders, Master....
3.20
Speranza Italiana ............ No. 219 ....Pete Leo, Master
·
Robert Morando, Jr. Warden
Peter Capua, Past Master
G. B. Cordano, Past Master
A. Cogliandro, Past Master
John I sola, Past Master
John Icardi, Past Master
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
Ulisse Cortopassi, Past Master
John Alioto, Past Master
Downey..................,..:........ No. 220....Marvyn Dewitt Broyles, Master...... 40.10
·
Henry James McClusky, Sr. Warden
Neil T. Rogers, Past Master
Inyo..·-··- ·····--··-·-··-___No ..22.L..Benjamin H. Lawrence, Sr. Warden 41.10
Roseville......,.....................No. 222.... Milo Kn ezevich, Jr. Warden............ 7.20
·
Lucas Schaffer, Inspector.................. 7.20
Bakersfield::....................... No.224.... Lloyd E. Howell, Master .................... 25.90
·
John L. Van Zant, Jr. Warden
Orville L . Coburn, Inspector............ 25.90
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master 25.90

Name of Lodi;;e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

'813
Mileage Allowed

Brooklyn.............._............No. 225.... Roy H. Lenthall, Inspector
Louis Sutter, Past Master
William Keay, Past Master and
Representative .
San Mateo........,.................No. 226.... George \ Vm. Deraimer, Master
Belton Rhodes, Sr. Warden
James R. Eubanks, Past Master
·Miles McK. Anderson, Past Master
Athens .........................- ..... No. 228.... Edgar H. Markham, Master.............. 5.10
Solano.................................No. 229.... Alton F. Jackson, Master.................... 2.20
Bennie E. Altic, Sr. Warden
Osgood Hilton, Past Master
North Butte....................... No. 230.... Charles L. King, Sr. Warden.......... 9.50
Covelo................................. No. 231.... (No attendance)
Janesville.........................._No. 232.... ( No attendance) ·
Calistoga............................ No. 233 .... ( No attendance)
Hope................................... No. 234.... (No attendance)
Surprise Valley....•.......... No. 235 .... (No attendance)
Hills Ferry.........................No. 236.... Adolph T . Kiersch, Master................ 7.30
William S. Thomson, Inspector........ 7.30
Guadalupe..........................No. 237 .•..John Jenkins, Sr. Ward"en.................. 22.70
Colusa.................................No. 240....Warren G. Davison, Master.............. 9.10
Santa Ana.......................... No. 241.. .. Roswell Ferris Reid, Master............ 40.10
Albert F . Hill, Past Master
Augustus H . Allen, Inspector.....~ .... 40.10
Magnolia............................No. 242....H erman L . Harms, Sr. Warden...... 30.20
·
R. C. Hine, Inspector........................ 30.20
Eucalyptus......................... No. 243 .... Harry Alonzo Bradford, Master
Richard Wm. Paige, Sr. Warden
Walter F . Flierl, Past Master
Alcatraz.•...... ~..................... No. 244.... Abner F. Thompson, Master
John F airfax Randolph,
Sr. Warden
Louis Oliver Fitts, Jr. Warden
Arthur H . Gawne, Past Master
Edwin A. Clothier, Past Master
Lewis T. Corwin, Past Master
Laurel................................. No. 245.... Howard Rose Allard, Master............ 10.00
Pomona.................- ...........No. 246.... Herbert W. Barnum, Representative 39.60
Fresno.................... ~ ..........No. 247 .... P. D. Ellithorpe, Master.................... 17.60
D. H . Fisher, Past Master
Chester H . Warlow, Grand L ecturer 17.60
J. W. Warner, Past Master
Fred P. RouUard, Past ·Master ........ 17.60
Harry T. White, Past Master
Alturas...........................'.... No. 248....John C. Rachford, Master................ 31.20
Chas. S. Baldwin, Inspector.............. 31.20
Adin.................,.................. No. 250.... (No attendance)
Landmark.....................- ...No. 253.... Richard Bloom, Master...................... 4.00
Readin'g ..............................No. 254.... Emil Michael Wickert, Sr. Warden 20.20
Gilbert C. DeForest,
·
S r. Grand Warden.......................... 20.20
Welcome........................,...No. 255 ....Thomas Morgan Nesbitt,
..
·
Sr. Warden.......................................... 20.40
Lo,di.....................................No. 256.... Melber Forrest Ayers, Sr. Warden 5.90
T . Glenn Wright, Inspector.............. 5.90

814
Name. of Lod.-e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

'

Representatives ,

815

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
, Mileage Allowed

Penrhyn.................. _........• No. 258 .... George Sanderson, Master .................. ,. 7.,80
Evergreen.......:.................. N o. 259.... Richard A. Steves, Sr:· Warden ..... :~:"42:10
Ralph Edward Johnson,
Jr. Warden
0. K. Morton, Past Master.............. 42.10
Willard G. Babcock, Past Master
and Io'spector...................................... 42.10
King Solomon's ............... No. 260 .... Alb_ert 0. Rier, Master
Lloyd C. Lonkey, Past Master .,,
Henry ,L. Green, Past M·aster .... · '.
William K. Cullen:, Past Master ··
John W. Davey, Past Master
John E. Werry, Past Master
Randolph V. Whiting,
Past Grand Master
Robert L. Dreyfus, Past Master
Tuscan ................................ No. 261.. .. Henry A. Atwo<?d, Representative.... 8.40
Lompoc.-............................No. 262 .... Frank R. Jenks, Sr. Warden:..• ,.. ,...• 26.40
Hesperian ...................•.......No. 264 .... Raymond Haskell Strong,
· .
Jr .. warden........................... ·-··········-~ 22.70
Orland ................................. No. 265 .... Charles Kirby Price, Sr. Warden ...... 11.10
Herman Thode, Inspector.................. 11.00
. , Stanley E. Coffey, Past Master
North East ..........• :.~ ...:.: .....N o. 266~~,oEJn:ier P. Harris, Representative...... 31.20
Galt.......•....•.............., ......... No. 267 .. .,-(No. attendance)
Durant..........................:...:.No. 268 .... Kruger W. Wilkie, Master
Niles 0. Millar, Inspector
Gus A. Griesche, Past Master
. Walter W. Bradley, Past Master
Frank B. Graves, Past Master
George E. Oxley, Past Master
B. J. Rose, Past Master
Olive Branch ............. :... :... No. 269 .... George Vv. McCallister,
Sr. Warden .......................................... 20.50
Snow Mountain................ No. 271.. .. Elvin Rufus Fellows, Jr. Warden...... 8.90
Pasadena ............................ No_,272 .... Loren E. Otis, Master.......................... 39.10
. Franklin Janes Ives, Sr. Warden
Tallnian H. Trask, Past Master
Anchor ....................,.•...._...,No. 273 .... Reese V. Kerr, Master ....................... , 38.20
Cecil M. Prior, Sr. Warden ........... ,.. 38.20
B. J. Little, Jr, Warden
Ralph K. Pierson, Inspector............ 38.20
Arroyo ..............................,.No. 274 .... Ben D. Conrad, Master ...................... 2l.10
Oakdale ..............:............... No. 275 .... Edward Wayne LeBaron,
Sr. Warden .... ,..................................... 7.70
Bernard F. Hoisholt, Inspector....... . 7.70
Selma .................................. No. 277 .... Herold Bohl, Sr. Warden .................. 18.70
Southern California ......... N o. 278 .... Edward Chandler Gadden, Master.. 38.20
John Morgan Askin, Sr. Warden
Harold E. McComas, Jr. Warden
Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Master 38.20
Edward B. Spencer, Past Master
John H. Rogers, Past Master
Charles T. Medler, Past Master
Hanford ..............................No. 279 .... Raymond W. Noland, Sr. Warden .. 19.90
William H. Baxter, Inspector.......... 20.40

. Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allow~fl

Madera_.............................. No. 280 .... Mason A. Bailey, Sr. Warden ........ 11.60
Mt. Shasta .......................... No. 281....Ralph E. LeBarre, Sr. Warden_ .....• 19.40
Callayomi.......................... No. 282 .... Lorin Benjamin Hunt, Master.......... 5.00
South West........................ No. 283 .... Robert F. Milligan, Master ................ 46.60
Wilbur F. Bradley, Sr. Watden
F. T. Hutcheson, Past Master
San Miguel...............•.........No. 285 .... Charles Forbes, Master...................... 18.10
Paso Robles ....................... No. 286 .... Lloyd Brant Thomas, Sr. Warden .... 14.10
Winnedumah ..................... No. 287 .... Roy Boothe, Sr. Warden ...................,. 46.60
Maxwell ............................. No. 288 ... JNo attendance)
Elsinore .............................. N o. 289 .... Herbert Albert Swonger,
Sr. Warden ... - ............................••.:J'il 43.60
East Gate ........................... No. 290 .... Wilmer Verne Ahrens, Master.........;. 38.20
Frank M. Smith,
Past Grand Master .......................... 38.20
Ralph E. Smith, Past Master ............. 38.20
Robert Esterbrook, Past Master
Sa·nta Paula ...~ ................... No. 291.. .. John Dwight Singleton, Jr. Warden 33.20
G. A. Quick, Inspector. .. . .. ., .. .... 33.20
Los Gatos .......................... No. 292 .... Clarence P. Miller, Sr. Warden........ 3.40
Orange Grove ................... No. 293 .... John T. Mcinnis, Master ......._. ............ 40.10
Leon 0. Whitsell,
· Past Grand Master
Traver........ :........................ No. 294 .... Clare R. Nelson, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 19.00
Mt. Jackson ....................... No. 295 .... George W. Hasek, Master.................. 5.00
Silver Gate......................... No. 296 .... Charles Leslie Findley, Sr. Warden 46.60
Hubert Ellmore Randolph,
Jr. Warden
E. F. Kenner, Past Master
Frederick S. Weed, Inspector.......... 46.60
Raymond P. Wakeman,
Past Master
E. L. Schellenberg, Past Master
Dunsmuir ...........................No. 297 .... Floyd Melvin Stone, Master .............. 25.60
Liberty..•........... ;;.; .............. No. 299 .... Robert Marion Moore, Master.......... 3.00
Redlands ............................ No. 300 .... Charles W. Largent, Sr. Warden .... 42.6()
Arthur P. Crim, Past Master .......... 42.60
Ontario ............................... No. 301....Archie· D. Mitchell, Sr. Warden...... 40.90
Robert E. Harris, Past Master
Santa Lucia ....................... No. 302.... Ralph Waldo Dunham, Master........ 10.60
Porterville .......................... No. 303 .... John Hiram Guthrie, Master ............ 22.10
Obed W. Carr,
Assistant Grand Lecturer .............. 21.00
A. V. Britfon, Past Master
Reedley ............................... No. 304 .... Emmett L. Remy, Past Master and
. ·Representative .................................. 19.10
Azusa ........................... :...... N o. 305 .... Arleigh Lee, Past Master and
Representative ...................·.····--··•.. 39.90
Ashlar ..........................•...... No. 306 .... Joseph Jennings H. Smith, Master 42.10
A. J. Erichsen, Inspector ... - .......•..... 42.10
Santa Moniea .................... No. 307 .... Daniel E. Shackman, Master............ 38.20
Monrovia •............................No. 308 .... Chester Burton Caldwell, Master .... 39.50
·
Anson T. Williams, Sr. Warden
Delano.. -< •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• No. 309 .... Edgar Roy Douglas, Master............ 23.80
Harold R. Olson, Sr. Warden
M

816
Name of Lodi;e

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. or Lodge

Representatives

Mllea1e Allow•cl

Sisson..................................No. 310.... Kenneth P. Glines, Jr. Warden ........ 29.20
Los Banos.~........................ No. 312.... Andrew Kenneth Anderson,
Sr. Warden......................- ...... _,m, 8.60
Tehachapi.........................• No. 313 .... William Lewis Woods, Master........ 29.10
·
H. J. Beauford, Past Master
H. R. Bandhauer, Past Master
L. T. Jenkins, Past Master
'Temescal............................ No. 314.... Homer Hopkins Holton, Master...... 43.10
Lawrence Glendening Thome,
Sr. Warden
Norwalk............................. No. 315 .... 0. C. Cole, Past Master.................... 38.90
Sanger.......................c•••••••• No. 316.... R. H. Frane, Sr. Warden .................. 18.60
Fallbrook.... _..................... No. 317 .... George E. Kingston, Master............ 46.60
EmmanueL....................... No. 318....L. E . Reynolds, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 9.70
Hollenbeck........................ No. 319.... Edward Piner, Master.......................... 38.20
Charles F. Ganther, Sr. Warden
Leo V. Y oungworth, Past Master
South Gate......................... No. 320.... David Hartt Terry, Master................ 38.20
Jay Wm. Wheeler, Sr. Warden
Martin L. Griffith, Past Master
Fred E. Ussher, Past Master
AlisaL................................No. 321.. .. Melvin Howard Nielsen, Master........ 2.80
Alhambra........................... No. 322.... Herbert C. Davis, Master.................. 38.80
Philip J. Toner, Sr. Warden
Sloan Pitzer, Past Master
Whittier•......................,..... No. 323 .... William Emery, Master...................... 39.20
John E . Chapin, Sr. Warden
C. W . Peek, Past Master
Corona..............c............... .. No. 324.... Sankey A. Knudsen, Master.............. 39.10
Ben F. Smith, Sr. Warden
Consuelo............,............... No. 325 .... Cleland H. Rice, Sr. Warden............ 46.60
C. A. S. Kemper, Grand Pursuivant 46.60
Needles...............................No. 326.... William R. Carty, Master .................. 50.40
Carl C. Mikesell, Inspector................ 50.40
Long Beach....................... No. 327 .... Marion Alexander Duncan, Master 38.20
Clark H. Shaw, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................. 38.20
Redondo............................. No. 328.... 0liver Jackson Lewis, Jr. Warden 38.20
Vallee de France...............No. 329.... Paul Marcel Machu, Master.............. 38.20
A. E. Blanchard, Inspector................ 38.20
Herman Brederman, Past Master
Kilauea............................... No. 330.... Paul H. Townsley, Past Master and
Representative ..................................283.00
Pacific Grove.................... No. 331.... Ernest K. Bramblett, Master............ 8.30
Clarence A. Higgins, Sr. Warden
Arch Balchin, Past Master
C. L. Cope, Past Master
Russell W. Giles, Inspector................ 7.60
· C. C. Higgins, Past Master
G. H. Schuyler, Past Master
San Pedro.......·-·······----.... No. 332.... V. L. Stagnaro, Master...................... 38.20
Wallace F. Fitzgerald, Sr. Warden
Alta,..................~................. No. 333 .... George C. Delury, Representative.... 38.20
John D. Murphey,
Past Grand Master

Name of Lodi;e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

817
Mileage Allowed

Covina......., .........................No. 334.... James G. Hodges, .Sr. Warden........ 39.90
West Gate............,.........,...No. 335.... Irving Jay Knutson, Sr. Warden.....• 38.20
Fred R. Mason, Past Master
Fruitvale............................ N o. 336.... Emoi:a Jackson Wooley,
·
Sr. Warden
Edward Leroy LaSh.ls, Jr. Warden
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Carquinez...........·.......:.:..... No. 337.... Harvey F. Browning, Master............ 2.00
B. F . $cribner, Past Master
San Jacinto........................ No. 338.... Dixie G. Miller, Master...................... 44.60
Hardus P. Sorkness, Inspector........ 44.70
Fullerton...:.'-·-····-'····-········No. 339 .... Archie Dean Hawkins, Master........ 39.80
H. C. McMaster, Inspector.............. 39.80
Oxnard............................... No. 341....Arthur Carl Dwire, Sr. Warden...... 33.80
Bernard Chester Mickle, Jr. Warden
San Fernando................... No. 343 .... Louis H. Boone, Sr. Warden .......... 36.90
Starr King.............~........... No. 344.... Homer Clingman Ransom, Master
'
Arthur Salomon, Sr. Warden
Philip Selig, Jr., Jr. Warden
Charles M. Wollenberg,
Past Grand Master
Clyde C. Hinshaw, Past Master
Rudolpq Rosenberg, Past Master
H. L. Wayne, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
M . C. Zimmerman, Past Master
A. F. Breslauer, Past Master
and Inspector
Carl Cohn, Past Master
L. T. Goldmeyer, Past Master
A. C. Wollenberg, Past Master
C. 0. Munson, Past Master
fue~twood.........................No. 345....Julian M. Waganet, Ma~ter................ 4.10
Palo Alto.....,......................No. 346.... Ralph Frank Dethlefson, Master...... 2.10
Kendall Myer Bower, Sr. Warden
William T . Davis, Jr. Warden
N. W- Glaesser, Past Master
McKinley...........................No. 347 .... Clare Otis Bryant, Sr. Warden
Rolla L. Eubanks, Inspector
John D. Williams, Past Master
San Bernardino................ No. 348.... Clarence Oliver Brown, Master........ 42.10
Ralph H . Logsdon, Inspector.......... 42.10
Sequoia:..............................No. 349.... J . Walter Proctor, Master
Robert R. York, Sr. Warden
Russell Hiram Bray, Jr. Warden
H. S. Savage, Inspector
Cyril W . McClean, Past Master
Earl Warren, Past Grand Master
Jesse F . Mote, Grand Marshal
Palestine....~........................No. 351. ...Henry E . Lestmann, Master............ 38.20
Milton J. Krebs, Sr. Warden

818
Name or Lodg-e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Np. or Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mileage Allowed

Sunset ...................c•••••••••••• No. 352 .... William M. Ketteringham, Master .... 38.20
George Matson Goodell,
Sr. Warden
Samuel E. Burke,
Past Grand Master .......................... 38.20
Rollie W. Miller,
. Pii.st Grand Master .......................... 38.20
Lloyd C. Campbell, Past Master ...... 38.20
George Delavan, Inspector................ 38.20
E. G. Bashor, Past Master
Pinole.................................. No. 353 .... George W. Pfeiffer, Past Master
·
and Representative............................. 2.00
Presidio .............................. No. 354 .... Bernard B. Neider, Master
William T. Schaafsma, Jr. Warden
Eric R. Johnson, Inspector
E. H. Wilkens, Past Master
Hollywood ••....................... No. 355 ....James William Crosby, Master........ 38.20
Dean Belmont Myers, Sr. W.l!-fdenJ ohn Thomas Bond, Jr. Warden'
William B. Ogden,
Past Grand Master .......................... 38.20
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
Leo E. Anderson, Past Master
Mill Valley.... ,............... :... No. 356 .... Erwin Lawrence Egger, Sr. Warden
F. A. Penn, Inspector
T. S. Watters, Past Master
S. M. Burt, Past Master
Irvine T. Low, Past Master
Buena Park. ..........•............ No. 357 .... Theodore R. Siems, Master.............. 40.10
Golden State ...................... No. 358 .... Charles Henry Botsch, Jr., Master 38.20
Winfield R. Cram, Sr. Warden
Arthur B. Ditman, Past Master
Ben G. Wright, Past Master
Loyalton .............................No. 359 .... Gus E. Dimmen, Past Master and
·· ;.
Representative ................................... 24.70
San Francisco.................... No. 360 .... Harold W. Smith, Master
Charles D. Johnson, Sr. Warden
A. J. Thibodeau, Past Master
Ea.rl Freeman, Past Master
R. K. Roper, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
H. D. Oliphant, Past Master and
Assistant Grand Secretary
Henry L. Alves, Past Master
Fort Bragg.................-...... No. 361.. .. Robert Peterson, Sr. Warden .......... 18.50
Norman G. Johnson, Inspector ...... :. 18:50
Charity............................... No. 362 .... George A. Schuyler, Sr. Warden...... 3.40
Berkeley............................. No. 363 .... Charles J. Benton, Jr. Warden
Charles A. McKelvey, Past Master
R. P. Arnold, Past Master
F. A. Fielitz, Past Master
Willits ................................. No. 365 .... A. B. Guslander, Past Master and
· Representative .................................. 12.60

Name of Lodi;e

No. or Lodge

Representatives

819
Mllea11e Allowed

Las Palmas ........................ No. 366 .... Edwin Munn Fornes, Sr. Warden·.... 17.60
Thurman Devine Moyers,
Jr. Warden
W. R. Tanzer, Past Master
J. R. 'Erskine, Past Master
South Pasadena ................ No. 367 .... Kenneth Herbert Hawkins,
Sr. Warden .........'..............•............•.Ji,. 39.10
Horace E. Vedder, Inspector............ 39.10
R. A. Chase, Past Master
J. W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity................................... No. 368 .... Bernard Clarke Brennan, Master ...... 37.80
Ray Chase Cathcart, Sr. Warden
.
Guy B. Mize, Past Master
Ocean Park...,.,...:.............. No. 369 .... Edwin F. Collins, Master .................. 38.20
Roy Alvcrnon Fahlstedt,
Sr. Warden
W. D. Tucker, Past Master
Amity............ ,......:.............. No. 370.... John Henry Lalor, Master
Edwin Starr Milot, Sr. Warden
Charles J. Schaefer, Jr. Warden
H. G. Hammerich, Past Master
Frank W. Bieg, Past Master
R. M. Henry, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanie ... No. 371.. .. Alexander Potts, Representative
and Grand StandardlrBearer..........250.00
Gardena.............................. No. 372 .... Herbert Wood, Master ...................... 38.20
Richard W. Ahlberg, Sr. Warden
West Los Angeles .......... No. 373 .... George Wessling Riggs, Master.....• 38.20
Ernest Albert Wells, Sr. Warden
Jewel................................... No. 374.... Arnold Ray Engel, Sr. Warden
William Karlman Nossen,
Jr. Warden
.
Leo .. Bruck, Past Master
Curtis Benton, Past Master
Charles E. Anderson, Past Master
and Grand Organist
0. G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Richmond .......................... No. 375 .... Charles Clovis Diebold, Master
Ross Dickerman Pelton;
Jr. Warden
Emil K. Bender, Inspector
E. L. Fischer, Past Master
Frank Ruppel, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
A. J. Boge, Past Master
J. H. Conner, Past Master
Francis Drake ................... No. 376.... David Broom, Master
Earl Lowell Almquist, Jr. Warden
Artesia ................................ No. 377 .... Albert T. Frampton,
Representative .................................. 38.90
George R. Frampton, Past Master
Mizpah ....................•........... No. 378 .... Van Buren Heady, Sr. Warden ...... 38.20
George Dewey Robinson,
Jr. Warden

820
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Fillmore..............................No. 379.... W . Howard Price, Master............,....t 33.80
Graham B. Palmer, Sr. Warden
·
Thomas H. Walsh, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach........... No. 380.... Vernon Emphrey Langenbeck, •
Master ...........•.................................... 41.00
Archie Francklin Lockett,
Sr. Warden
Oceanside .............·............_No. 381 ....Roger D. MacPherson, Master........ 42.90
George A. Otis, Inspector.................. 42.90
·
Highland Park..................No. 382.... Harold Sydney Snow, Master.......... 38.20
Claude E. Prescott, Sr. Warden
H. F. Weller, Past Master
Orosi................:...;...;.;..~ ......No. 383 .... Albert Day Wrought, Master............ 20.50
El Centro............................No. 384.. ,.Elmer Wilson Heald, ·Sr. Warden... 55.80
·
John Stewart Ross,
· .. ·
Past Grand Master.......................... 38.20
Dinuba.............,........;.........No. 385 .... Rufus Vaughan McCray, Master.... 19.50
·
·
C. L. Fraser, Inspector........................ 19.5Q
Coalinga.......:.."·················No. 387.... Edwin Arthur Crowell, Sr. Warden .22.70
Parnassus........................•..N o. 388.... Fr;mk Vignola, Master ·
Frank Edward Meadowci::oft,
Jr. Warden
George E. Kimball, Past Master
W. H . King, Past Master ·
J. C. Durhan, Past Master
.
George K. Crandall, Past Master
Palos Verdes....•................ No. 389....Thomas R. Lewis, Master.................. 38.20
John J. Glenn, Sr. Warden
ImperiaL....:..:.,..................No. 390.... D. V. Stewart, Past Master and
Representative ·------·---·······----.. ·--·-····· 52.50
East.Belt............................. No. 391.... W. E. Ronten, Past Master
E. H. Hodge, Past Master
West Lake......................... No. 392.... Clyde Emory Hopkins, Master........ 38.20
Chas. Kirves Slack, Sr. Warden
William T. Osterholt, Past Master
Charles E. Listenwalter,
Past Master
Lee T . Mullen, Past Master.............. 38.20
Walter L. Berger, Past Master
Balder...........·-····---········..No. 393.... Harry G. R. Peterson, Master
Fred .A. Schuler, Sr. Warden
Henry N. Olsen, Jr. Warden
F. C. Shedwill, Past Master
Elias Ellison, Past Master
C. H. Peterson, Past Master
V. C. Peterson, Past Master
N. S. Stohl, Past Master
University................•.;....... No. 394.... Philip Irving Hoke, Sr. Warden.... 38.20
Turlock........................~.......No. 395 .... Webb H. Tribble, Master................ 7.70
Harry 0 . Carlson, Inspector............ 7)0
E. G. Drake, Past Master
Apolh...........................~.... No. 396... :Carl Emil Thau, Master
·
Waldemar Francis Andersen,
Jr. Warden
E. G. Nelson, Inspector

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representa.tbes

821
!lflleage Allowed

Rising Light...................... No. 397....John W. Peek, Jr. Warden ....:...~ 38.20
L. V. Hughes, Past Master
Fraternity.......................... No. 399.... William Porter Johnson,
•
Sr. Warden...................................::..... 3.20
Burlingame........................ No. 400.... William ·Ellsworth Provence,
Master
William Peet, Sr. Warden
Elmo Elmsmere Philips,
Jr. Warden
Samuel L. Hawken, Inspector
Bay View........................... No. 401.. .. Norman Henry Street, Master
Elmer F. Downey, Jr. Warden
E . D. Sellers, Past Master
F. W: Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley.....,.............:.......... No. 402.... Neil L. Fifield, Sr. Warden................ 54.90
Yerba Buena.....................No. 403.... George T. Walker, Master
Russell Turner Palmer,
Sr. Warden
Glendora.............•.............. No. 404.... Carl Fl. Appy, Sr. Warden................ 37.10
Morieta................- ............ No. 405.... Lee D. Mathews, Master.................... 38..20
·
Louis L. Cunningham, Sr. Warden
Burbank................:............ No. 406.... Arthur Haneberg, Sr. Warden.......... 37.70
La Mesa............................. No. 407 .... Frederick E. Mounte, Sr. Warden.... 46.60
Sierra Madre..................... No. 408.... Hertry Rintelman, Jr. Warden.......... 39.10
Honolulu........................ _ ,No. 409.... Alexander Potts, Representative
Charter Rock.....................No. 410.... Sanborn H . Smith, Master
Ralph W. Myers, Past Master
Matthew Morton, Jr., Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master ·
J. K. Fisk, Past Master
S. S. Juch, Past Master
William D. Wisdom, Past Master
Perris..............••...............•..No. 411.... Henry Hagen, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 43.30
Calexico.............................. No. 412....John H . McCoy, Sr. Warden.......... 56.30
Waucoba.............................No. 413.... Bruce Lee Coulter, Master...........:.... 42.90
William L. Davis, Inspector............ 42.90
Herbert D. Gwinn, Past Master
Arlington.........'.................. No. 414.... Charles W. Bragg, Jr. Warden.......... 38.20
Carl F. Peters, Insp.ector.................. 38.20
Silver TroweL.................. No. 415 ....John S. Taylor, Master...................... 38.20
Charles W. Bradshaw, Sr. Warden
F. S. Brennan, Past Master
Lindsay.............................. No. 416.... Bert Wesley Ware, Sr. Warden...... 21.40
Clovis......................;.....- ..No. 417 .... George Wayne Rall, Sr. Warden.... 17.60
Elysian.......:.;........•............ No. 418.... Elbert D. Owen, Sr. Warden.....~ ...... 38.20
H. D.. Coley, Past Master
R. F : Callender, Past Master
Upland................................ No. 419.... Allan S. Barr, Master.......................... 41.00
William R. Farmer, Inspector........ 41.00
·
.
Clare C. Blakeslee, Past Mastel'
Kerman ...:•...•..................... No. 420.... Rene Steiner, Past Master................ 12.10
lnglewood...~:..:.....:......:..• No. 421..... Robert 0. Youmans, Master............ 38.20
Robert K. McQuire, Inspector........ 38.20
Eagle Rock........:•..........:...No. 422....William Edw. Keogh, Sr. Warden.... 38.20
W. E . Squii:e, Past Master
~
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

822
• Name or Lod.,e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

York."·····························'···No. 423.... William Jos. Schramm, Master.......... 38.20
Justus C. Drake, Sr. Warden
Exeter..................,.....•......::No. 424.... Charles L. Burnett, Past Master
and Representative........~ ................. 21.00
Frank W. Mixter,
Past Grand Master.......................... 21.00
Holtvil!e............................ No. 425 .... Viggo Hansen, Jr. Warden ................ 52.90
Midway....•......................... No. 426.... Eugene M. Johnston, Master............ 25.90
T. H. Rowcliffe, Inspector.............,.. 29.10
Chino Valley.....:............_.No. 427.... Harold D . Race, Master...................... 40.60
San Dimas......................... No. 428.... Arthur E. Tangeman, Inspector...... 40.20
Harty ]. Smeap, Past Master and
Representative .......:.......................... 40.20
Pittsburg....•.......................No. 429 .... Howard W. Ramsay, Master............ 3.30
Emil C. Gundershaug, Sr. Warden
William R. Anderson, Jr. Warden
McCloud..................:..........No. 430.... Sidney Hogan, Inspector and
.
Representative .................................. ,30.10
Alpha................................... No. 431.... Douglas John Bacon, Master
Lee Gerald McCoy, Sr. Warden
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master
Hutt Brown, Past Master
Anshelm S. Remell, Past Master
W. P. Self, Past Master ·
Raymond B. Davis, Past Master
Hammonton:................~~...No. 433 ..... James Clarence Gray, Master............ 8.30
Maricopa............................No. 434,... <;:larence A. Doolittle, Sr. Warden 25.90
Fairmount....c••••••••••••••,••••• No. 435,... Leonard Wm: Harless, Master
George Pollitt, Past Master
Claremont..........................No. 436.... Erle Knight Bunker, Sr. Warden.... 40.70
Lancaster...........;.•....:...•....No. 437 .... Morgan Eugene Trammell,
.
Sr. Warden........................:............... 30.70
Acacia.......•........,.:.............. No. 438.... William Osterloh, .Master.................: 38.20
Karl L. Ratzer; · Inspector.................. 38.20
Tyrian........................~--······No. 439... .]ohn Thomas Smith, Sr. Warden.... 5.70
Theron Ormal Hodson,
Jr. Warden
Standard............................. N o. 440.... Daniel Gray · Reid, Master
Fred John Higuera, Sr. Warden
Arithony Peter Van Ooyen,
Jr. Warden
Frederick Degen, Past Master
C. J. Sorel, Past Master
Charles B. Olds, Past Master
W. F. Wood, Past Master
Coronado........................... N o. ·441.... Kenneth Frederick Clarke,
Sr. Warden..........,...........................:. 46.60
Harry "S. Clark, Inspector.................. 46.60
Blackmer..................::....... No. 442....Edward Wm. Welk, Master.............. 46.60
William Roy Markle, Sr. ·Warden
,
John McQuilken, Jr. Warden
Warren Libby, Past Master.............. 38.20
.
.
.O. E. Tyler, Past Master
Schofield............................ No. 4~3 .... Alexander Potts, Representative

.

• Name of. Lodpi

No. of Lodge

Representatives

823
Mileage Allowed

Carpinteria.,•..:.................. No. 444.... E. D. Solari, Past Master and
Representative .................................• 32.10
Charles Curtis, Past Master
Wilshire............................. No. 445...•J. Douglas Enefer, Master................ 38.20
Herbert A. Huebner, Sr. Warden
T. A. Dille, Inspector.......................... 38.20
Fred E. Clark, Past Master
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master........ 38.20
G.
Page, Past Master....•............... 38.20
W. W. Chegwidden, Past Master ·
Will H . Fischer,
Past Grand Master.......................... 38."20
La Puente,......................... No. 446.... Vernon T. Keyes, Jr. Warden.......... 39.60
Torrance............................No. 447.... Homer B. Morgan, Sr. Warden........ 38.20
Mt. Diablo......................... No. 448....Leland Pacheco, Master...................... 2.50
G. A. Engman, Sr. Warden
Donald Campbell, Jr. Warden..
Park......•............................. No. 449.... Hugo Arthur Maas, Jr. Warden
John Ferguson, Past Master
R. K. Huppert, Past Master
George H. Ginsin, Past Mastl)r
H. W. I.!uft, Past Master
Arthur vV. Brouillet, Past Master·
Van Nuys ...........c••••••••••••••. No. 450....Kalman Held, Sr. Warden..........:..... 38.20
H. S. Morrison, Inspector.................. 38.20
Montebello........................ No. 451 .... Vancil E. Row, Master..................,,..... 38.20
Robert L. Karnes, Sr. Warden
San Pasqual.......................No. 452.... Francis M. Secrest, Sr. Warden........ 39.10
Bethlehem..........................No. 453.... Carl M. Taylor, Master
John C. Painter, Past Master
Crocker........~ ......................No. 454.... Mattrup Jay Jensen, Master
Roy Wieland, Sr. Warden
A. McN. Campbell, Jr. Warden
W . C. Schenk, Past Master
G. C. Chamberlain, Past Master
Golden West..................... No. 455 ....John Wm. Mitchell, Master
· Reginald A. Farquhar, Sr. Warden
Earl B. Brehaut, Past Master
,
Ramona......,.......................No. 457.... Ivan M. Cammack, Sr. Warden....:.... 38,20
Henry S. Orme................. No. 458.... Robert F. Shippee, Master..............,. 38.20
Henry C. Kivett1 Sr. Warden
.
L. D. Collings, Past Master.............. 38.20
Valla Glenn Chessman, .
Past Master
Riverbank..:....................... No. 459....John G. Veneman, Representative;..,.,7.30
Mount Oso.:..............:....... No. 460 .... Lynn 0. Stark, Representative.....,./ 4.70
Argonaut...,......................:.N o. 461.. .. Ar.thur H. Schroeder, Master
·· ·
Hoadley Johnson, Sr. Warden
Charles F. O'Malley, Jr. Warden
J. A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Sigfried Fels, Past Master
J. D . McCue, Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach,
Past Master
··
W . L: Bowden, Past Master
Charles A. Rice, Past Master

w:

824
Name or Lodi;;e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. or Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mllea11e Allowed

Paul Revere ....................... No. 462 .... Howard D. King, Sr. Warden
·
W-illiam A. Gerder, Past Master
J. C. Ostin, Past Master
]. W. Warshaw, Past Master
H. A. Fouch, Past Master
J. H. Springer, Past Master
Morgan Hi!L................... No. 463 .....E. P. Johnson, Representative.......... 4.50
W. L. Whidden, Past Master
Alta Vista...." '···'··.············· No. 464 .... Paul F. Scamman, Sr. Warden
William Butcher, Jr., Jr. Warden
F. J. Herz, Past Master.
Dwight N. Deane, Past Master
Harry L. Wintersgil, .Past' Master
Center.,.,.....:......................:'No. 465 .... George F. Metcalf, Sr. Warden ........ 17.60
Samuel E. Dollar, Inspector.............. 17.60
Roy W. Peterson, Past Master
Libertas .............................. No. 466.... Clyde Brownlee Zuver, Master........ 25.90
Walter Jennings Armstrong,
'
Sr. Warden
. Robert J. Myers, Jr. Warden
Culver City........................ No.,467 ..,.R~ynold 0. Luck, Sr. Warden ........ 38.20
Truman Van Dyke, Inspector.. ........ 38.20
· ·
·
Rockridge .......................... No. 468 .... Morris Elwood Bruner, Master
· . ··
M. T. Farmer, Past Master
Yorba Linda ...................... No. 469 .... Homer J. May, Sr., Master .............. 38.20
Lincoln.,.."····'·'··------------····N o. 470 .... Alexander McBirney, Master
Samuel Speier, Jr. Warden
Arthur M. Joel, Past Master
D. L. Wolf, Past Master
Delta ............:....'....... :..:....... No. 471.. .. Raymond Ira Miller, Master............ 5.60
Maui..............:................... No. 472 .... Frariklin T. Murphy,. Past Master
.
·
and Representative ............................250.00
Blythe.....;:: ...........,...·., ....,....No. 473 .... Robert L. Sinnock, Jr. Warden ........ 48.90
Victory...........................::.. No. 474 .... Ernest Schumacher, Master
·
· Otto Van . R,aven, Past Master
H . .T. Dave, Past Master
Amet'ica.:.....•..................c•• No. 475 .... Aubrey Patterson, Master ................ 38.20
.co_achella ...:.,..:.................. No. 476 ....vValter Chas. Wheeler, Jr. Warden .. 47.20
Temblor,..:.:~ ......................No. 477 .... Melvin L . Smith, Sr. Warden .......... 25.90
Thousand Oaks ................ No. 478 .., .Harr~" Clarence Peterson, · •
Sr. Warden
'
R. P. Wisecarver, Past Master
Golden .Rule ............:.:....... No. 479 .... Fritz Hans Olsen, Master.................. 3.20
.
.
John Willford Poisal, Sr. Warden·
•Fellowship .........................No. 480 .... Chas. Harold Griffith Master
'Mt. Davidson:,.................. No. 481.. .. Angus S. Holden, M~ster
·
Laurence D. Benamati, Sr. Warden
Arthur M. Warren,
Assistant Grand Lecturer
James M. Kemp', Past Master
Clarence F. Smith ............No. 482 .... Raymond G. Vogel, Master ................ 38.20
·
· .
Frank G. Falloon, Inspector .............. 38.20
Bell..........................:.... : .~ ...... No. 483 .... Wilbur · 0 . Fawley, Master ................ 38.20
1
Wm. L. Kyle, Sr. Warden
Francis Wm. Pearce, Jr. Warden
H. C. Comaford, Past Master

Name or Lodi;;e

No. or Lodge

Representatives

825
Mllea1e Allowed

Albert Pike... ,..,....:............ No. 484.... Clifford Earl Hicks, Sr. Warden .... 38.20
Chowchilla ....................,... No. 485 .... John Walter Lautsch, Master .......... 10.50
Caledonia ...........................No. 486 ....Thomas Wm. Magee, Master ............ 25.90
Cleveland A. Simmons, Sr. Warden
Vallejo.............................-..No. 487 .... A_lvin Norton Hulse, Master............ 2.20
John Wm. Dew, Sr. Warden
Sumner E. Patton, Jr. Warden
T. B. Pollard, Past Master and
Inspector .........,.................................. 2.20
Patterson ...........................No. 488 .... George L. Bettencourt, Past Master
and Representative............ :..... ~---······ 6.50
East Bay........ :••........•........ No. 489 .... Robert V. Abarta, Master
P. A. Andresen, Jr. Warden
Corcoran ............................ No. 490 .... Leon Dunning, Past Master and
.. .
Representative .................................. 20.70
Woodstock........................ No. 491.. .. Alvin Arthur Horwege, Master
Robert Emmett O'Brien,
Sr. Warden
John Milton Bridge, Jr. Warden
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master
.
C. _E. Maddox, Past Master
Garvanza............................No. 492 ....Fred L. Norton, Master...................... 38.20
Clarence A. Burpee, Sr. Warden
... .
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
·
Atascadero..................... :~ .. No. 493 ....Azor Frederick Kunkee, Master ........ 19.60
F. C. Hess, Past Master
C. William Starkey, Past Master
Acorn ••.. c•••,,,._••• ,•• ,..,, •••_.••••••.No. 494 .... Lloyd Ninnis Temby, Master
.. ..... . . ..
S. F. Worswick, Past .Master
Leban6n.. ~...,.................,....No. 495 ....John·,A. Cummins, Jr. Warden
Fremont............................. No. 497 .... Ceacil E . Duvall, Master
Robert J . Richardson, Sr. Warden
George C.. Turner, Jr. Warden
H. A. Buck, Past Master
Chester C. Morris, Inspector
F. F. Morse, Past Master
Stockton................ :........... No. 498 .... George Edw. Briggs, Jr. Warden.... 5.60
Capital City...........~ ........ ,.. No. 499 .... Moritz Ludlow Abbott, Master........ 5.90
Aubrey Leon Ward, Sr. Warden
·
·
M. F. Scott, Past Master ·
Harvey P . Gay, Past Master
,( }
Roosevelt .......................... No. 500.... Walter C. Zecher, Master
Ed R. Fairbanks, Sr. Warden
M. K Cloyd, Past Master
Joseph Scannell, Past Master
-W estwood ......................... No. 50L .. Hans Edwin Olson, Jr. Warden ...... 24.60
H~rb~~-:: ............................ No. 502 .... Charles H . Schra~m, Master
R. Clifford Metz, Sr. Warden
.
George C. Rutan, Jr. Warden
Point ..:.....::................:........ No. 503 .... Gust J. Allyn, Master
·
John L. Caron, ·sr. Warden
·· Cyfus M. Nielson, Past Master
David G. Collins, Past Master
0

826
Name or Lodi;e

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Seaside................................ No. 504 .... William R. Brown, Master ______________ 38.20
Harold Lee :Bowdish, Sr. Warden
William J. Courtiour, Past Master ·
and Inspector.................................... 38.20
W. T. Corbusier, Past Master
Edwin W. Wade, Junior Deacon
Silver Cord ........................ ~o. 505 ....John f.' Vernon, Master ...................... 40.10
Carlyle Dennis, Past Master
Mount Olive ...................... No. 506.... George Callarman, Sr. · Warden ........ 38.20
Karl V. Johnson, Jr. Warden ·
Alvin W. Wendt, Past Master .......... 38.20
El Segundo........................ No. 507 .... George Osborne Rea, Sr. Warden .... 38.20
Joppa .................................. No. 508.... F. E. Miller, Representative .............. 17.60
Benjamin Franklin .......... No. 509 .... Edmond F. Johnson, Sr~ Warden ____ 38.20
Cupertino........................... No. 510 .... Dwight Durkee, Master...................... 3.20
.
.
R. I. Meyerholz, Sr. Warden
Sunnyvale .....,......c............. No. 511.. .. James M. Moon, Master .................... 2.60
Herman L. Horn, Jr. Warden
Palms .................. ,..........:..,No. 512 .... Eugene Chas. Prehoda, Master ........ 38.20
Everett Greer Marks, Sr. Warden
Cahuenga ........................... No. 513 .... Frederick Wm. Chappell, Master ______ 38.20
'
Mandell Waldo Safholm,
Sr. Warden
R. Caswell, Past M.aster
Earl W. Neal, Past Master
Roy · C. Bryan, Inspector .................... 38.20
Argortne ............................. No. 514.... Frederick E. Wilhelm, Master
Donald 0. Townsend, Jr. Warden
Fred P. Inge!, Sr. Warden
Henry C. Mathewson, Past Master
Vermont Square ............... No. 515 .... Jasper J. Leake, Master .................... 38.20
Roy E. Maginnis, Sr. Warden
Taft. .................................... No. 516.... George L. Houck, Sr. Warden .......... 25.90
Mt. Vernon ........................ No. 517 .... Wendell T. Matlock, Master
R. F. Fletcher, Past Master
L. S. Cronander, Past Master
H. W. Chaunce, Past Master
A. V. Sligar, Past Master
LaJolla .... :......................... No. 518.... Lee Jos. Cooper, Sr. Warden ....... ,.... ,46.60
Frands J. Garty, Past Master
.
Euclid ................................. No. 519.... Arthur L Leffler, Sr. Warden ............ 38.20
Ionic .................................... No. 520 .... Bernard Lebe, Master.·------··--·-·····----- 38.20
Isador Smuckler, Sr. Warden
Piedmont... ......................... No. 521.. .. Robert A. Macdonald, Master
Theo. A. Westphal, Jr. Warden
V. R. Pentecost, Past Master
Sunrise ............................... No. 522 .... Victor L. Cook, Sr. Warden .............. 38.20
Walter E. Toole, Past Master
Bellflower.......................... No. 523 .... Charles B. Paul, Master .................... 39.50
Clive Ferebee, Sr. Warden
Catalina Island ................. No. 524: ... John C. Davis, Past Master
David S. Park, Representative ........ 45.20
Herbert A. Wegmann, Past Master
George Washington ........ No. 525 .... Leslie S. Logan, Master
Frank E. Buehn, Sr. Warden
J. Johnston, Past Master

Name or Lodi;-e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

827
Mileage Allowed

Bay City.....'...•..,.................. N o. 526 .... Abraham Schapiro, Master
Aaron A. 'Lewis, Jr. Warden
E. M. Jackson, Past Master
Harry Thor, Past Master
Covenant... ......................... No. 527 .... H~rbert James Shaffer, Sr. Warden 38.20
F. J. Lender, Past Master
H. M. Greminger, Past Master
Beverly Hills ..................... No. 528.... Frederick A. Fox, Master ................ 38.20
Ernest N. Judson, Sr. Warden
,
Frank Harwell, Jr., Inspector ............ 38.20
Loyalty... ,.........................,.No. 529 .... Irving Bekey, Sr. Warden ..... :.......... 38.20
Sun Garden........................ No. 530 .... Columbus C. Smale, Jr. Warden .... 17.60
H. R. Hargrave, Past Master and
. Inspector .................,........................ 17.60
Alexandria......................... No. 531.. .. Roy Baker McArthur, Master
Smyrna ...............................N o. 532 .... Aarian Sidney Cakebread,
Sr. Warpen........................................ 7.20
Azure .... ,............................. No. 533 .... Chas. F. Cornelius, Master ................ 39.80
Forest Hill......................... No. 534.... Anthony C. Tomen, Master
Raymond C. Locey, Sr. Warden
John H. Thompson, Jr. Warden
0. A. Haberdier, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ....... N o. 535 .... Sam Beaumont, Master ...................... 38.20
Charles E. Miltimore, Sr. Warden
Seal Rock ........................... No. 536 .... Edward R. Nienstadt, Jr., Master
Russell H. Sievers, Sr. Warden
Edward P. Fagan, Jr. Warden
Gus W. Kramer, Past Master
Edwin W. Bode, Past Master
Utopia................................. No. 537 .... Harry B. Farlow, Sr. Warden ......,... 38.20
Ascot.................................. No. 538 .... Henry Dewey Ennis, Master............ 38.ZO
James H. Nelson, Sr. Warden
Belvedere ........................... No. 539 .... Fred Hogben, Master .......................... 38.20
Peter G. Beutleschies,
Sr. Warden
Queen Beacl} ..................... No. 540 .... Frederick S. J. Hancock, Master ...... 38.20
Henry Morse Stephens ... No. 541.. .. Boyd B. Rakestraw, Sr. Warden
William Sturm, Jr. Warden
M. A. Sawrie, Past Master
W. Newlon, Past Master
A. Lewis Koue, Past Master
Lankershim....................... No. 542.... Clarence A. Ross, Master .................. 38.20
Jack Sharp McGregor, Sr. Warden
Signal............... - ....... ,......... No. 543 .... Myron Edw. Roudebush, Master .....: 38.20
Stephen D. Carroll, Jr. Warden
Walter Lentz, Past Master
Glendale ............................. No. 544.... Clarence F. Lipe, Master .................... 37.80
Charles H. Moss, Sr. Warden
Jonathan .............................No. 545 .... John Arthur Carlson, Master
Chas. Mandel Heidegger,
Jr. Warden
.
Herbert Stone, Past Master
San Gabriel... ....,................ No. 546.... Henry Lorenz, Sr. Warden................ 38.90
Arcadia ............................... No. 547 .... Wayne Fletcher Upson, Master ________ 39.30
John Herman Gruben, Sr. Warden
V. H. Gunderson, Past Master

828

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name or Lodi;e

Name or Lodi;e

No. or Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Triangle........... :........•........ No. 548.... Robert ';Nm. Davies, Master.. .......... 38.20
· Bruce T. Dayton, Sr. Warden
Justice................................ No. 549 .... Walter C. Sundberg, Master
Paul Arthur Hackler, Sr. Warden
Pel'.CY Vane Maury, Jr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
W. W. Barry, Past Master
George D. Horn, Past Master
Seaport...... :., ........:.... ;........No. 550....Harold Gregg Wyman, Master
Calvin Oscar Olsen, Jr. Warden
Walter H. E. Von. Konsky, Past
Master and Inspector
0. A. Holtzen, Past Master
Chas. F. Knipe, Past Master
J. Alpers, Past Master
J. J. Yates, Past Master
··························aJoqs~>jt!'}No. 551.. ..Lewis Bradley Miller, Master
·
Lee Burnett Ferguson, Sr. Warden
J. R. McKalip, Past Master
Arthur W. Baker, Past .Master
Howard S. Gerrish, Past Master
Lloyd W . Hanson, Past Master
Semper Virens .................. No. 552 .... Alexander Duncan, Master .............. 24.70
Educator............ :............... No. 554 .... Donald B. Ryan, Master
William M. Luther, Sr. Warden
William D. Ekman, Jr. Warden
R. M. Small, Past Master
T. M.. Noble, Past Master
J. Lloyd Smith, Past Master
White Pine ........................ No. 555 .... (No attendance)
Fairfax................................ No. 556 .... Bert E. Hartmann, Sr. Warden
•
Lester M. Jones, Jr. Warden
Herinosa ............................ No. 557 ....Albert L. Bailey, Sr. Warden ............ 38.20
Point Firmin.,................... No. 558 .... Charles E. Knibb, Sr. Warden .......... 38.20
·craftsman ..........................No. 559 .... George Edgecombe, Master ............. 38.20
Bert C. Judd, Sr. Warden
Plymouth........................... No. 560.... Herbert M. McCracken, Master
Walter B. Hurley, Sr. Warden
James G. Disher, Jr. Warden
Edward H. Siems, Past Master .
·V. E. Pace, Past Master
C. K. Baxley, Past Master
East San Diego..;.............. No. 561.. .. Chas. D. Conover, Sr. Warden ........ 46.60
Pyramid ............................. No. 562 ....James M. Reed, Master
Germain Wiley Miller, Sr. Warden
. Alvin Salmon; Jr. Warden ·
South Park......................... No. 563 .... Lawrence B. Black, Master .............. 38.20
Sidney Hill, Past Master
Hugh E. Moor, Past Master
Foothill ............................... No. 564 .... Wilber Clarence Taylor, Master
Robert Wm. Miller, Sr. Warden
I
r
Alfred E. Peterson, Jr. Warden
B. L. Miller, Past Master
.
William H . Follrath, Past Master
West Adams ......................No. 565 .... James Emil Umfrid, Sr. Warden.... 38.20

No. of Lodge

Representatives

829
Mlleage Allowed

James A. Garfield ............. No. 566.... Joseph H. Fraizer, Master .................. 38.20
Harold J. Molyneaux, Sr. Warden
Searchlight.................,......No. 567 .... Arthur Joseph Barton, Master .......... 38.20
Harry Hardy, Sr. Warden
Park Boulevard .................No. 568:... Don E. Berry, Sr. Warden
George E. May, Jr. Warden
C. H. Adams, Past Master
Chateau Thierry ........... :.. No. 569.... Herbert Arthur Smith, Master
Harlow Raymond Finch,
Sr. Warden
Howard ~- Kaulbach, Jr. Warden
Paul M. Hasey, Past Master
Military Service ................ No. 570....James Bruce Millikin, Master
Francis K. Shattuck........ No.571.. .. Arthur Volke Spence, Sr. Warden
E. W. Davis, Past Master
James Madison ................. No. 572 .... Harold Ernest Bishop, Master .......... 38.20
Arleigh John Lamie, Sr. Warden
Hilkrest ............................. No. 573 .... Eve'rett Richard Ludden, Master
Royal T. Jumper, Jr. Warden
A. H. Herndon, Past Master
S. W. Hackett... ................ No. 574.... Frank Howard G. Adams,
Sr. Warden.: ........,.... ,.,........c•• ::...:••• :.:. 46.60
.
N. B. Vickers, Past Master
Fort Crook. ........................ N0; 575 .... Ben Jenne, Sr. Warden ..... ,., .. ,.,..•, ..... 33.40
.
, · · · · 0. Stewart, Past Master
El Cajon Valley.•............ N'o. 576 ....J. S. Carmichael, Representative .... 46.60
Sunnyside........................... No. 577 .... Louis Henry Mahler, Master ............ 38.20
Samuel Edw. Brown, Sr. Warden
F. W. Davies, Past Master ................ 38.20
R. C. Wilson, Past Master ·
·
P. L . Bruner, Sr., Past Master
Progressive ..............,......... No. 578 .... Roy 0. Miller, Master.......:···--·······'.·:i 38.20
P. R. Borden, Past Master
Warren G. Harding......... No. 579.... Harmon Johnson, Master .................. · 5.90
Henry R. Brown, Past Master
·
.
·
Santa Maria ..... ;........... ~ .... No. 580 .... (No attendance)
Security...... :........................ No. 581.. .. 0ran W . Palmer, Representative.... 25.90
Rialto ......... :........................ No. 582.... Roscoe Elliott Watts, Sr.,
Sr. Warden........................................ 42.10
Edward P. Patterson, Past Master
Wasco................................. No. 583 ...;Levy Marvin Parker, Sr. Warden .... 24.40
Harding.............................. No. 584 .... Herbert Harold Hill, Sr. Warden .... 38.20
Manchester........................ No. 585 .... Henry A. Brans, Master ........... ,.......... 38.20
Floyd Burgner, Sr. Warden
Joseph Lynn, Jr. Warden
John Shahan, Past Master
Garden Grove ....................No. 586.... James H . Cockerham,
Representative ................................ 40.10
Valley Forge ..................... No. 587....James M. Maddock, Sr. Warden .... 38.20
F. B. Magee, Past Master
El Sereno........................... No. 588 .... Wm. 0. Phegley, Sr. Warden ............ 38.20
R. E. Mater, Jr. Warden
Kauai... ............................... No. 589 .... Paul H. Townsley, Master
Compass ........:.::..................No. 590 .... Roy Monroe Fisher, Sr. Warden .... 39.60
Chas. S. Imhoff, Past Master
Escalon............................... No. 591.. .. Paul A. Ekholm, Master.................... 6.90

830
Name or Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Tujunga ........................,.....No. 592 .... Claud A. Doyle, Sr. Warden ............ 38.20
All States .... ,..,.......... __ ......N.o. 593 .... Frank A. Lawry, Sr. Warden ........ 38.20
Service.... _.:., ...................... No. 594.... Clarence John Creasey, Master........ 38.20
Claude L. Ryerson, Sr. Warden
Alexsnder Graham Bell..No. 595 ....W. Frank Warren, Sr. Warden .. _.... 38.20
Guardian .................. ,.......... No. 596 .... Augustus Harold Shiney, Master ..•. 38.20
James A. Lake, Sr. Warden
Pearl Harbor.....................No. 598 .... T. E. Farrow, Sr. Warden .................. 250,()(1
Carmelita ........................... No. 599 .... Joseph J. Engholm, Sr. Warden ...... 39.10
Dr. J. T. Parker, Past Master and
Inspector ....................... ., ................... 39.10
E. A. Lockett, Past Master
Lynwood............................ No. 600 .... Hugh H. Baird, Master ..................;,.. 38.20
Grizzly................................No. 601.. .. Louis C. .Pearmond, Master .............. 23.'SO
Walter H . Young, Sr. Warden
Harry S. Date, Past Master
A. W. Waite, Past Master
Melrose............................... No. 602.... Crit Sanford Brown, Sr. W2.rden.... 38.20
Dimond.............................. No. 603 .... 0liver E . Nelson, Master
Harry L . Eagles, Jr. Warden
Wm, H. Little, Past Master
. ·
Jubilee ................................. No. 604 . ,.. Milton Erving Johnson, Sr. Warden 40.20
Glassell Park..................... No. 605 .... Alford L. Foster, Master .................... 38.20
Sojourner.....•..................'..;No. 607 .... Marlin Clark Walsh, Sr. Warden ...... 39.50
Granada .............................. No. '608 .... Earl George Read; Master .........•....,.... 38.80
.
Donald Gillette Campbell,
··
Sr. Warden
.
.. ,
Kenneth H. Knesel, Past Master
Providcnt.:.............::::...,.. :;:N'o. 609 .... C. E . Stephenson, Representative.... 5.90
· '·
Leslie E. Wood, Grand Master ........ 5.90
Byrl F. Babcock, Grand Chaplain
5.90
Elmhurst............................ No. 610.... William Gilbert Lockyer, Master ··:-. ·
Canoga ...............................No. 611....Cecil Royal Gehr, Sr. Warden ........ 36.30
Temple City...................... No. 612.... John L. Exton, Sr. Warden .............. 39.20
Three Pillars ..................... No. 613 .... Miles J. McClelland, Past Master
L
and Inspector..................................., 5.90
archmont......................... No. 614 .... Newcomb Coni:lee, Master ................ 38."2b
Philip M. Bixenstein, Sr. Warden
George P. Salm, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 38.20
H,emet............... ,............. :...:No. 615 .... Ray R. Bell, Master ......................... :.. 44.70
R. E. Dolley...................... No. 616 .... Percy Samuel Northey, Sr. Warden 38.20
Big Bear............................• No. 617 .... Laurence Paul Boyle, Master .......... 42.10
Southland .......................... ~o. 618.... Harry Vern Van Osdol, Master ........ 38.20
Alfred Holman Campion,
Jr. Warden
W. L. Hovis, Past Master and
Inspector ......................~ ..................... 38.20
N cptune ..•........................... No. 619.... Jesse Josiah Taylor, Master .............. 38.20
Point Loma ....................... No. 620.~ .. Harold Keith Rankin, Master ............ 46.10
F. A. Plank, Past Master
The Gardens ......................No. 621.. .. George T. Slater, Sr. Warden.....
38.20
Atwater .............................. No. 622 .... Ravmond Ernest Putney
Sr. Warden........, .... ,......•.'..,,...........,,.,.- 38.20

Name of Lodi.;e

No. or Lodge

Representatives

831
Mileage Allowed

Menorah ............................. No. 623 .... Carl Titelman, Master ...... ,................. 38.20
Allyn Selwyn Abramson,
Sr. Warden
Fortitude............................No. 624 .... Claude Ellis Salmon, Master
Walter Joseph Dahm, ·sr. Warden
Virgil S. Oliver, Jr. Warden
A. L. Costa, Past Master
A. H. Van Eck, Past Master
0. E.. ~nderson, Past Master
Angeles Mesa.................... No. 625 .... William L. Yoakam, Maste1; .............. 38.20
William H. Kobabe, Sr. Warden
Albert H. Klatt, Past Master
. ,, . Walter H. Gentry, Past Master
Chula Vista........................ No. 626 .... Aubrey Rowland Watson,
Sr. Warften .......................................... 46.60
Lamanda Park..................No. 627....John B. Andrus, Master.. .................. 39.10
William
Pompey, Sr. Warden
Trtith .................................. No. 628 .... George · X. Hickerson, Jr.;
Sr. Warden ...................................... 38.20
F. Harwell, Jr., Past Master
Fairvicw............................. No. 629 .... Edward Graf, Jr. Warden .................. 38.20
B. L. Irwin, Past Master
Pierce H. Faze!,• Past Master
lnglesidc .......................•.... No. 630 .... Andrew G. Lindahl, Master
Robert M. Gane, Sr. Warden
Herman E. Van Valkenburg,
Jr. Warden
R. W. Blosser, Past Master
Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary
and Past Grand Master
A. H. Krage!, Past Master
Wm. W. Bovyer, Past Master
H. C. Clausen, Past Master
Benevolence ...................... No. 631.. .. Arthur R. Shields, Master; ......... ,....'. 38.20
Harry Platt, Past Master
Normal Heights ............... No. 632.... Roger Wesley Gerwig, Sr. Warden 46.60
Poinsettia ........................... No. 633 .... Edgar L. Jaspar, Sr. Warden ............ 33.20
Orey L. Riley, Jr. Warden
L. C. Drapeau, Past Master... ,... '""-- 33.20
Victorville ..........................No. 634 .... Keith Gunn, Master .............................. 42.10
Lewis Sidney Powell, Sr. Warden
Riv.e rside..........- ............. No. 635 .... F.ra;ik George McConnell, Master.. .. 42.10
Francis Harold Butterfield,
Sr. Warden
Hugh McCulloch, Past Master
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
John Marshall... ................ No. 636 .... Richard Arthur Peterson, Master .... 38.20
Oscar Leonard Lundberg,
Jr. Warden
Palisades ............................ No. 637 .... Kenneth Hallard Andrews, Master.. 38.20
Lorain Elwell Tarbox, Sr. Warden
Harold Chas. Brownberger,
Jr. Warden
C. H. Foye, Jr., Past" Master and
Inspector ............................................ 38.20
I. D. Wheeler, Past Master

A:

832
Name of Lodi;:e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No. of Lodge

Representatives

833

Mileage Allowed

Indian Rock...................... No. 638.... Howard C. Miller, Master
David R. Lane, Sr. Warden
William E. Hunting, Jr. Warden
Composite..............::........• No. 639.... Ben Myers, Sr. Warden...................,.. 38.20
Veritas........•..............~........ No. 640.... Irving J . Kohnke, Sr. Warden
Wesley Byron Baker, Sr. Warden
Chas. Russell O'Donnell,
Past Master
Washington J. Kohnke,
Past Master and Inspector
Winfield Attenborough,
Past Master
James A. Foshay......_...... No. 641.. .. Alfred· Chaudet, Master...................... 38.20
La Cumbre........................ No. 642.... Edward Alison McMillan,
Sr. Warden........................................ 30.20
Alta Loma......................... No. 643.... Chas. Floyd Slaback, Master............ . 38.20
Lom~ta_.............................. No. 644....J. R. Winters, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 38.20
A. F. E. Irwin................... No. 645....Albert L. Provence, Sr. Warden...... 38."20
Eric E. Matson, Past Master
Metropolitan................_... No. 646....James M. McDonald, .
.
Representative .................................. 38.20
Hawthorne........................ No. 647.... Harold L. Root, Master...................... 38.20
John W . Owens, Sr. Warden
Sam lngleson, Jr. Warden
· Frank W. ·Hawkins, Past Master
Damascus.......................... No. 648.... Carroll Lee Judson, Master.............. 42.li)
Herbert W . Robbins, Past Master
Florence......•...................... No. 649.... Malcolm Isaac, Master........................ 38.20
La Brea.............................. No. 650.... Frank Fannon Merrill, Master............ 38.20
Wm. Wheeling, Past Master
.
John W. Swank, Past Master
Menlo Park....................... No. 651.. .. 0tto A. Leydecker, Sr. Warden........ 2.00
Crescenta Valley..............No. 652.... Frederick H . Cooper, Jr. Warden.... 38.20
Fontana............................,.No. 653....Walter Mason Chase, Master ............ 38.20
George Franklin Calkins,
Sr. Warden
R. E . Jacques, Past Master
Jordan ................................. No. 654.... Earl E. Dotson, Master...... - .............. 38.20
Robert H . Vleerick, Sr. Warden
L. Gross, Past Master and
·
Inspector ..........................................:. 38.20
Monte Vista...................... No. 655.... Glenn A. Bucknell, Master................ 38.20
Citrol.................................. No. 656....Har ry F. V eDel, Master .................... ·39.60
John D. Spreckels............ No. 657.... Richard Clark Hughes, Jr. Warden 46."60
John T. Martin, Past Master
Livingston..................:...... No. 658.... Charles H. Kanen, Jr. Warden...... 8.40
La Habra........................... No. 659.... Zeph W . Manseau, Sr. Warden........ 36.80
Baldwin Park....................No. 660....Frank Davies, Sr. Warden ................ 39.70
Malta.................................• No. 661....New ton S. Million, Sr. Warden ........ 38.20
H enry Knox......................No. 662....John Harry Hargreaves, Master»···· 38.20
D ewey T . Dahl, Sr. Warden
Ojai.....................................No. 663....J. 0 . Burnett, Master .......................... 33.20
Kaweah ....................:......... No. 665.... Wm. Starns, Past Master and
R
Representative .................................. 20.50
es~da ................................ No. 666....Gerard G. McCormick, Sr. Warden .. 38.20

Name of Lodi;:e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Meridian............................. No. 667.... William Albert Rice, Sr. Warden .... 37.80
J . R. Moore, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 38.20
Aubrey Artiss, Past Master
Sam Mcdonald, Past Master
San Gorgonio.................... No. 668.... 0rville C. Purpus, Master................ 44.10
John .P . Jarman................. No. 669 .... Edward W. Johnson, Master............ 3.20
James B. Wilkinson, Sr. Warden
N. H. Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 3.20
Hebert Pritchard, Past Master
Greenleaf..........................• No. 670.... Raymond Albert Kridler, Master...... 39.20
Kenneth L~ster Ball, Sr. Warden
Laurence L. Vestal, Jr. Warden
Ed. Burdwell Skinner, Past Master
and Inspectort.............,.:..............•.:~, 39.20
George R. Miller, Past Master
San Clemente.................. .No. 671.... Earl H. Moore, Past Master,
Representative .................................. 42.40
Laguna Beach................... No. 672.... Harold S. Myers, Sr. Warden.......... 40."10
Far West..............•.•........... No. 673.... Chas. W. Qualman, Master
Herman E. Bickel, Jr. Warden
C. J . Christensen, ,Past Master
and Inspector
R. E. Mason, Past Master
Dean W ilson, Past Master
Los Cerritos...................... No. 674.... Phil Moss, Master................................ 38.20
Modesto............................. No.. 675....Joseph M. McCarty, Sr. Warden.... 6.80
Willow Glen...................... No. 676.... Arthur J . Eldridge, Master................ 3.20
Liberal Arts ...................... No. 677.... Melvin E. T. Hughes, Sr. Warden 38.20
G. E . Meyer, Past Master and
Inspector ································-·-··-· 38.20
Reyno ld E . Blight, Past Master
Frederick T. Dickie, Past Master
Altadena.............................No. 678.... A lfred P . Davies, Master .................... 39.10
Jesse R. Swan, Sr. Warden
Canby Cross"...................... No. 679.... (No attendance)
Carmel................................ No. 680.... Gordan C. Browne, Master................ 8.10
Dos Palos......................... No. 681.. .. Glen C. Holmes,
Junior Grand Steward ...... ,............. 9.50
Barstow............................. No. 682.... L eonard A. Zagortz, Master .............. 36.30
.
Udall A. Tenney, Sr. W arden
Redwood Empire- ........• N o. 683 .... ( No attendance)
Trona........................••.•_._No. 684.... William L. Denton, Master ................ 37.76
Samuel Benj. Levin, Sr. Warden
G. Haughton Jr., :E';ist Master.......... 37.76
T otal

' ................. $ 1l>,197.92

NOTE: In accordance with the law, payments wen: made. to P ast Masters,
where shown, in official and authorized capacities, and not to Past Masters
as such.
LEWIS SUTTER,
RALPH E. SMITH,
ALVI N
WENDT,
WILLIAM E. Y OUNG,

w.

HENRY H . B ROWN,
CHARLES
PATTON,
H. M. ANDREWS, '

E.

Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

834

835

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES

Charter

58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76

With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic
Year Ending July 31, A. L. 5942
Lodge

No.

1 California -------- - - - -· 1
2 Western Star --------- - 2
3 Tehama -------- - - - - - · 3
4 Benicia ----------- ------ 5
5 Tuolumne ------ - - - - 8
6 Corinthian - -- - - - - -- 9
7 San Jose ------ - - - - 10
8 Yount -------. _ 12
9 Nevada ..-. ·- - - - -- 13
14
10 Temple _ _
11 Eureh ___.::_______~___:___ 16
12 La Parfaite Union____ ._ 17
13 Mountain Shade_____ .:__ 18
14 San Joaquin ____.:_ _ 19
15 Washington - - - - - 20
_ 21
16 Hawaiian ___
22
17 Occidental
18 Madison - - -- -- - - 23
19 Mariposa· - . - - - - - 24
20 GeorgetoiYn ----- - - 25
21 El Dorado ------ - - - 26
22 Trinity ------------ 27
23 Golden Gate -- - - -- 30
24 Gold Hill - ----- - -- 32
33
25 Ophir
. 35
26 San Diego _____
27 Howard ---- -------- · 37
28 Santa Cruz-----'--- 38
29 Sacramento ___, ______ 40
30 Martinez ------- - - -41
31 Los Angeles _____ __ _,_._ 42
32 Hiram -------43
33 Mount Moriah - - - - 44
34 Crescent ----45
46
35 Texas
36 Forbestown - - - - -- - 50
37 Illinoistown ------ - - 51
38 Suisun-----55
39 Volcano --- ------- - 56
40 Santa Rosa ----- -- - - -- 57
41 Union ------------- -- 58
42 Gravel Range - - - - - - 59
60
43 Plumas
44 Live Oak ----- - - -- - 61
45 Natoma ----------- - -- 64
46 Amador :...________ . _ 65
47 Forest ---- ---- - - - - - 66
48 Morning Star ----- -------- 68
49 Enterprise --------- ------ 70
50 Bear Mountain ---~-- 76
51 Calaveras ------- - -- 78
52 Humboldt - - - -- - 79
53 Ione --- ----- 80
54 Yolo --------- -- - - 81
55 Vesper -----84
56 Naval ......__________ 87
57 Rose's Bar --- --- - - 89

Charter

Issued
San Francisco _ _ 1850
Shasta - - - - --- 1850 ·
Sacramento - ..-- 1850
Benicia - - - - - - 1850
Sonora _ __..__ 1850
Marysville - ---- -- 1850
San Jose - · -- .... 1850
Napa ------- - - - 1851
Nevada City ..:..._ 1851
Sono~a _____ 1851
Auburn ------- 1851
San Francisco - ---- 1852
Downieville _____.. 1852
Stockton -~___.: 1852
Sacramento ----- .... 1852
Honolulu, H, T .___ 1852
San Francisco.:..~.... 1852
Grass Valley ___ 1853
Mariposa __ _ _ 1853
Georgetown - - - - 1853
Placerville _ _.._ __ 1853
Weaverville ------ 1853
San Francisco - ..----- 1853
Lincoln -------..- 1853
Murphy's ---------- 1853
San Diego -------- 1853
Yreka ------------ 1854
Santa Cruz ____ 1854
Sacramento ___ 1854
Martinez _____..____ 1854
Los Angeles _ ___,___ 1854
El Dorado ............._ 1854
San Francisco - -------- 1854
Crescent City ________ 1854
San Juan ---------------- 1854
Forbestown _____ 1854
Colfax --------- 1854
Suisun ------------ 1855
Volcano - --- - - 1855
Santa Rosa --------- 1855
Sacramento --------- 1855
Camptonville ------- 1855
Quincy -------------- 1855
Oakland ----------- 1855
Folsom - - - - - - 1855
Jackson --------- 1855
Alleghany ------ 1855
Stockton ------- 1855
Yuba City-- - - - 1855
Angel's Camp ----- 1855
San Andreas ---------- 1855
Eureka - --- ------ 1855
Ione - - - ----- 1856
Yolo _ _ -------~ 1856
Red Bluff ------- 1856
Vallejo ----------- 1856
Smartville __ _:______ 1856
Location

Mem·
Fees Dues bel'I

Ami.

Fees

100 20.00 12 536
6.00
9 113
50
75 10.00 9 481
12 134
50
2.00 12 196
75
9 262
50
9 422
50
12 302
60
. 50
9 123
2.00 12 113
40
9 194
50
100 15.00 12 132
30
9
35
80
12 523
75 10.00 9 522
80 10.00 12 351
100 25.00 12 697
53
10 227
50
9 165
30
9 55
5.00
50
9 183
5.00
50
9 101
50 10.00 12 605
50
1.00 9 . 82
50
4.00
9
43
80
12 558
50
l.00 9 200
1.00 12 325
80
75 10.00
9 532
12 234
75
50 10.00 9 632
75 20.00
9 52
100 10.00 12 382
50 6.00 9 130
30
1.00 9 39
30
9 55
9 . 70
50
50
12 117
5.00
30
9
34
5.00
75
9 401
75 10.00
9 510
30
9
47
50
2.50
9
97
50 10.00 12 893
50
5.00
9 130
50 5.00 9 64
50
9
44
80
12 . 413
50 5.00 12 203
50
3.00
9
64
50 10.00 9 74
50
18 317
50
9
75
30
9
51
50
9 164
75 10.00 9 743
50 5.00 9 36

77
78
79
80
81
82

83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99

100
101
102
103
104

•

105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118

Ami.

Mem-

Lodge
No.
Location
Issued Fees Fees Dues bel'I
North Star .......
91 Fort Jones ____________:__ 1856
47
5.00
9
35
80
1.00 12
50
St. Helena - - - -- - - 93 St. Helena -------- 1856
52
9
60
Henry Clay -·----------- 95 Sutter Creek _____ 1856
77
65 10.00 10
Hornitos - ------ -- ---- 98 Hornitos - ----------- 1856
12 255
Yosemite - ------ -- --- 99 Merced ----------- 1856 . 50
63
9
50
Clay - - -- - -- -101 Dutch Flat ---·- · _ 1856
5.00 12 232
50
Oroville - --------103 Oroville --------- 1856
1.00
9 216
55
Lexington ----- - - 1 0 4 El Monte - - - - 1856
9 1.82
50
Arcata
106 Arcata - - - - - ---- 1857
50 10.00 15 229
Pajaro ----- ----110 Watsonville -·----- 1857
50 10.00 12 318
Chico
111 Chico --·--------- 1857
37
5.00
9
50
Summit - 112 Knight's Ferry ----- 1857
12 214
50
113 San Leandro - - - 1857
Eden -·9 245
75 10.00
Concord - -- - - - 1 1 7 Sacramento ---------- 1857
Fidelity___________ 120 San Francisco ---- 1858 100
5.00 15 506
Alamo___________- - 122 Walnut Creek ......_
1858
5.00 12 159
50
Sotoyome.._________ _ 123 Hea:ldsburg ~ ____ 1858
5.00 12 148
75
1.00 9
80
Table Mountain..___ _ 124 Cherokee ----- --- -- 1858
96
50
9 174
La Fa)'fltte
126 Sebastopol ------------ 1858
Hermann___ __ _._127 San .F rancisco------- 1858
10.00
12
50
191
50
8.00 12 349
Visalia
12~ Visalia .......;..\~-----'-- 1859
Nicolaus..________
· -129 e:w'neatl.and..:, ___~--'·- 1859 ... 50
85
5.00 9
50
9 115
Woodbridg•---- --------131 Woodbridge:----+~. 1859
Sincerity_ _ ______ _ lJ.2 Greenville -~ 1859.
50 5.00 9 79
134 ,·Vacaville . ' """ 1859 :1j)'.O I,_,____ 12 148
Vacaville______
135 _· Linden _ ·_, -~ -1860
Valley_____
50 12.00 9 .68
136 .Sa~. Francisco _____ 1860 100 20.00 12 '-56
Pacific_____
Crod:ett..-...
139 San Francisco--------- 1860 .75 25.00 12 ·5.64
5.00
9 .,;i;i
35
14(1 . Cloverdale ------------.. Hl60
Curtis-Grafton_ _ _ _ _ ____141_ ·]<nights Landing __..__ 1860
5.00 .. 9 0 :61
30
Franklin________;,;...'--_143 Courtland _.._________ 1861
5.00 - ,1~ ~ .:8,3
75
OrientaL_ ·------~-144 San Francisco--------- 1861
100 25.00 . 12 !384
Vitruvius________- _ _ l4J Bloemfield ______ 1861
30
1.00 9 :100
AbeJL _______..__:...,:__146 l)kiah ----------- - 1861
50
12 154
50
Eel River_______ __ l47 Fortuna-----~---------- 1861
9 175
Lassen__________ __._ 149 SwanviJle _____.,_ 1862
12 152
60
Molino_____________ _ l50 Teham~ : ...._________ 1862
50 1.00 12 111
50
W oodland ____-,--_ _l 56 W oodl;i,nd ------------- 1863
9 223
Keystone__ ___--c-__ 161 Milt0f1,., ..:._.,.,__, _________... 1863
30 10.00 12
22
Harmony__ __ .._ _____164 Sierra 'Ci~ ·-------------- 1864
5.00
9
30
14
Excelsior_______,_.._____ 166 San Frandsi:o ______.._ 1864
50 20.00 12 483
Alameda ..______.._______ 167 Centerville · ---------- 1864
50 5.00 12 116
LOO 18 286 ·
50
Redwood City...~-----168 Redwood City -------- 1864
Mission____________l69 San Francisco ~-- 1864 100
5.00 12 646
Elk Grove.__________ 173 Elk Grove '______..__ 1865
50 10.00 9 114
Drytown____________ ._ 174 Plymouth ,..,--·-- 1865
30
9
5.00
27
75 Antioch -~_..,___ 1865
Antioch_____
50 5.00 12 152
PhoeniX---- - - ----'---178 San Bernardino___..... 1866
55
5.00 9 482
Mendocino_____..____ _ 179 Mendoci.Q.p _____.,_____ 1866
50 5.00 9 U.4
Petaluma._________________180 Petaluma , ......_..______ 1866
9 272
80
Russian River........_ .._______.181 Windsor_;:,.;Ir------- 1866
83
1.00 9
50
Arbuckle.._________..____.,_ __ 182 Arbuckle,,"------..-- - 1867
50 1.00 12 71
Clear Lake...............c_ _ _ l83 Lower L81ce________ 1867
50 10.00 9
42
Sierra Valley_________ _ l84 Sierraville .~----'----- 1867
50
9
32
Claiborne........______ _ _185 Point Arena _______ 1867
5.00 12
50
50
Ev~ning Star_ .._ _. __ 186 E~a l'yf~lls -- ------- - 1867
50
9
40
Ke1th ______________ _l87 G1lroy __,r:-- ---..'---- 1868
30
1.00 15 128
Oakland_____________
_ _ 188 Oakland ;_:.______;..______ 1868
50 1.00 12 759
Northern Light._______190 Millvilfe ---- ------- - 1868
35
5.00
9
79
Marin______ .._ _-'_:.__191 San Rafael .........._
1868
80
12 440
Santa Barbara.....________ 192 Santa Barbara ...~- 18b8
50
15 212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

836

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

119 PenidaJe____ _ _ _.193
120 Mountain View...________194
121 Buckeye
195
122 San Simeon_______l96
123 Wilm.ington______ l98
124 Hartley
199
125 Truckee__
200
201
126 Silveyville___
127 Pentalpha____
202
128 Confidence
-203
129 Salinas____
04
130 OliveL-__
05
131 Stanislaus_
206
132 Anaheim_______207
133 Rio Vista...._
208
134 King David'•--------209
13 5 Friendship
210
136 San Benito________-211
137 So. San Francisco____ 212
138 San Buenaventura.._ _ 214
139 Oak Grove
15
140 Doric_
216
141 Monterey_____
17
142 . Moaaic______--218
143 Speranza Italiana.____..219
144 Downey___
---220
145 lnyo..____________221
146 Roseville_
22
147 Bakersfield_______ ~24
148 .Broaltlyn_ _ _ _ _ ___zz5
149 San Mateo....________226
150 Adlena______ ________ 228
151 Solano.________ ___229
152 North Butte___________230
153 CoveJo__
31
154 Janetville.________ 232
155 Cali1toga_______ 233
234
156 Hope_____
157 Surprise ValleY--------...235
159 Hill's Ferry_____--236
159 Guadalupe________...:z.37
160 Colu1a _________240
161 Santa Ana·--·--·------241
162 Magnolia_______.:__z42
163 Eucaly.ptua________243
164 Alcatraz____ _ __ __244
165 . LaureL_________245
166 Pomona.----- -------246
167 Fresno---------247
168 Altura&------------248
169 Adin _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 250
170 Landmark________253
171 Reading.________254
172 Welcome.______________255
173 Lodi ..__________256
174 Penrhyn____________._258
175 Evergreen ____________259
176 King Solomon's _______----260
261
177 Tuscan_______
178 Lompoc_____----262
179 Hesperian.._ _ _ _ _ _264

Location

Charter
Issued

Ferndale - - - - - - 1869
Mountain View_____ 1869
Winters -------- 1869
Cambria · ------ 1869
Wilmington _____ 1869
Lakeport - ------- 1869
Truckee ------- 1869
Dixon ---------·-- 1869
Los Angeles.____ 1869
Castroville ----·· 1869
Salinas - - - - - - 1869
Corning - - ---- 1870
Modesto - - - - - 1870
Anaheim - - - - 1870
Rio Vista --- ---- 1870
San Luis Obispo___ 1870
San Jose - - - - --- 1871
Hollister ---------- 1871
San Francisco-~-- 1871
Ventura ------1871
Alameda - - - - -·· 1871
San Francisco ----·- 1871
Monterey - --- - 1871
Livermore ------- 1872
San Francisco _____ 1872
Downey - - - - - - 1872
Independence ------- · 1872
Roseville - - - - - 1912
Bakersfield ---··---- 1873
East Oakland ________ 1873
San Mateo -----·- 1873
Davis ----------- 1873
Vallejo ·------··- 1873
Gridley ------·--· 1873
Covelo ___:_____ 1874
Lassen ·-·-··----- 1874
Calistoga·-·----- 1874
Beckwourth ·----------· 1874
Cedarville - - - -- 1874
Newman --------- 1874
Guadalupe - - - 1874
Colusa ·--- - ---- 1875
Santa Ana ------- 1876
Santa Barbara ---- 1876
Haywards ------ 1876
West Oakland __ 1877
Willows ·------ 1877
Pomona ------- 1877
Fresno -----------·- 1878
Alturas -------- 1878
Adin - - - ---- 1878
Esparto ---------- 1879
Redding - - · -·- 1879
Lemoore ------··---- 1879
Lodi - - - - ' - - - 1879
Penrhyn ·-------- 1880
Riverside --------------- 1880
San Francisco ----- - 1880
Williams -------- 1880
Lompoc - - - - - 1881
Santa Maria ___.:._ 1882

Fees

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Mem·

Ami.

Fees Dues ber1

50
50
30
5.00
30
80
50
3.00
60
5.00
60
5.00
50
40
75
50
50
1.00
50
75
1.00
80
50
1.00
30
75 10.00
50
1.00
75
100 10.00
75
50 10.00
105
55
5.00
50
2.50
50
100
50
50
4.50
30
75 10.00
50
40
50
1.00
35
5.00
50 . 10.00
30
1.00
50
50 10.00
50 25.00
75
1.00
50
50
5.00
50 10.00
50
5.00
50
2.00
80
3.00
40
1.00
70
35
1.00
50
5.00
50
50
30
3.00
50
50 15.00
50
50
1.00
50
1.00

837

9 117
9 201
12 116
9 103
12 296
9 in
9
97
9 126
12 521
9 "31
9 321
12 93
9 361
9 258
12 104
12 309
9 512
12 125
12 224
12 2.84
12 518
12 431
9 150
12 140
12 343
9 220
9
85
12 269
12 446
12 512
18 232
9 116
9 · 469
12 121
9
49
9
56 .

9
9

71

69
9
64
9
99
9
54
12 141
12 418
15 Z42
12 246
9 461
12 172
12 280
9 559
12 136
15
61
9
85
12 165
9 173
9 275
9
94
12· 462
12 521
12
72
9 113
12 211

180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
19~

194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240

Lodge
No.
Orland-------~65

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

MemFees Dues bel'I

AmL

Orland - - - - - 1882
2.00 9 104
50
North EaaL--- - - ---266 Fort Bidwell ____ 1882
30
51
5.00
9
GalL_
· -----~267 Galt --·---- - - 1883 • 30
9 62
Durant- '
268 Berkeley - ---- - - 1883
5.00 9 537
80
Olive Branch_ _ ____.269 Tulare - - -- - - 1883
12 215
50
Snow Mountain._____--271 Stony Ford ~--- 1884
1.00 9
35
30
12 402
70
Puadena
272 Pasadena - - - - - . 1884
Anchor_________273 Compton -----· 1884
12 293
75
Arroyo.._________274 Arroyo Grande_______ 1884
6.00 12
92
35
Oakdale_ _ _ _ _ _ _275 Oakdale -------- 1884
1.00 9 113
50
Selrna__________z77 Selma ------ -- · 1885
80 12.00 9 147
Southern Califomia..______278 Los Angeles________ 1885
50 15.00 12 444
Hanford_______. ____z79 "'Hanford .- - - - - - 1885
12 154
50
Madera __ _:__________.280 Madera---- - - 1885
3.00 12 163
50
Mount Shasta_____281 Anderson ·------·- 1886
12
55
30
Callayomi__________282 Middletown _____ 1887
5.00 9
50
30
South West______.283 National City----- - 1887
50
1.00 9 193
San MigueL_____---285 San Miguel..______ 1887
30 10.00 12
52
Paso Robles _____--286 Paso Robles________ 1887
50
3.00
9 133
Winnedumah.._______287 Bishop -------·· 1887
50
20 102
MaxwelL________----288 . Maxwell ·-·-- --·--- 1888
30
12
49
Elainore._ _ _ _ ____289 Elsinore · - - - - - 1888
40
12 110
East Gate_ _ _ _ _ _ 290 Los Angeles.-------· 1888
50 10.00 9 706
Santa Paula.___--'-----_..291 Santa Paula_______ 1888
50
15 248
Los Gatos_______---292 Los Gatos -------- 1888
50
12 209
Orange Grove.:_____293 Orange - ------- 1889
50
1.00 12 179
Traver.______ ____294 Kingsburg ------ 1889
50
10 100
Mt. Jacbon._____z95 Guerneville - - - - 1889
30
12 111
80
12 619
Silver Gate-- - ------296 San Diego ---- -· 1889
Dunsmuir___________297 Dunsmuir ,_______ 1889
50
12 203
Liberty________299 Santa Clara.____ _ 1890
50
9 236
Redlands _______________ 300 Redlands ~--·- 1890
75
9 348
Ontario_________JOl Oqtario --~---- 1890
50
9 209
Santa Lucia_________.3()1 Kings' City ------- 1890
40
24
92
Porterville_________J03 Porterville ------- 1890
50
9 316
Reedley~.-----304 Reedley --·------··· 1891
50 9 126
50
12 162
Az\laa__
305 . Azusa --------··-··-- 1891
AshJar___________-_306 Colton - - - - - - - 1891
55
9 179
Santa Monica________---307 Santa Monica ------ 1891
80
12 246
50
12 199
Monrovia---------~--308 Monrovia - - - - - 1891
Delano___::_______
. -309 Delano -··--··-·----- 1892
50
9 168
SiHon.:.,....______.._310 · Mount Shasta -·-·- 1892
50
2.00
9
75
75
12 115
Los BanOl-----------'~~312 Los Banos ------- 1892
50
Tehachat>L-----: _ __J13 Tehachapi - -·--- 1892
1.00 9 143
Teme,caL._..:_;_ _ _---314 Corona --------- 1893
50
2.00 12 134
Norwalk_________-315 Norwalk ----··--- 1893
50
9 121
Sanger...._____________Jl6 Sanger -- - - - - - 1893
50
12 186
317 Fallbrook - ----· 1893
FallbroolL____
5.00 9
30
53
Emman11eL __________------Jl8 Biggs - - - - - - - - 1893
50
5.00 9
76
Hollenbeck _____________--319 Los Angeles ..:c..______ 1894
50 10.00 9 1024
South Gate..._____ 320 Los Angeles______ 1894
50
9 578
AlisaL.____ _______321 Pleasanton --------- 1894
50
9 102
Alhambra ____________J22 Alhambra -------- 1894
50
9 397
Whittier.__________ __323 Whittier _____:___ 1895
50
9 464
Corona..________ 324 Pasadena -----------· 1895
70 8.00 12 421
ConsueJo.________ 325 Escandido....-·_ _. 1895
50
9 152
75
1.00 12 224
Needles ---·····---~26 Needles --------- - 1896
Long Beacli _ _ _ _327 Long Beach -·-+- 1896
80
9 492
60 ---- 12 244
Redondo _____________-328 Redondo -"--------·- 1897
. .329 Los Angeles ________ 1897 100 12.00 ,' 12 114
Vallee de France...._ _
330 Hilo, H .. T.:,___,___,. 1897
Kilauea_
50 ·--- 12 196

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

83.8

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
2:H

2n

253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
i.97

298
299
300
301

No.

Pacific Grove_________J31
San PedrQ-----~32
Alta______
•
33
Covina________---..J34
West Gate__
35
.....336
Fruitvale__
Carquinez_______..,.337
San Jacinto_________J38
Fullerton_______________339
Omard__________Hl
San Femando_______ _343
Starr King ________ -J44
Brentwood...____
45
-346
Palo Alto
McKinleY-------347
San Bernardino____:._____348
Sequoia,_______________ _)49
Palestine_____________J51
Sunset-.____________ __3 52
Pinole_______________353
Presidio_________---354
Hollywood____---355
Mill Valley
-356
Buena Park_______---357
Golden State ___._ --358
Loyalton_ __ ·
---359
San Francisco______:____-360
Fort Bragg___..,________J61
C~aricy_____________362
Berkeley
363
- _ _ _ _-365
Willits_____
Las Palmas _ _ ________ -366
South Pasadena__________---367
Unicy____;:._________368
Ocean Park___________ __J69
Amicy__:.____::c:_________---370,
Le Progres de l'Oceanie_J71
Gardena_______;____·_·__. _372
West Los Angeles_
' __373
JeweL-----~-:...::__-374
Richmond _ _____.;...c.;.-375
Francis Drake______;___376
Arteeia ________, ________ .J77

Mizpah___________,;;,_,~-378
Fillmore_______________ ...:~79
Huntington Beach~_380
Oceanside_______________::'.__J81
Highland ParL_____;_ 382
Oroei_____
____:__J83
El Centto________-384
Dinuba __ __________:_ _;_.385
Coalinga__________________;,_~87
Parnassus____________..:.__:_388
Palos Verdes__________.__ 389
Imperial ____________--,-;...J90
East Belt._________ _ ____391
West Lake
- 392
BaldeL----~---....393
Universicy,___________394
Turlock___________..,.-395
Apollo____________-- :__;_396

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

Ami.

839

Mem·

Lodge

Fees ·Duet ben

Pacific Grove____ 1897
9 155
35
San Pedro ___ _ 1897
80 25.00 12 439
55
5.00
9
53
Bridgeport ------ 1897
9 197
50
Covina ------- 1898
Los Angeles____ 1899
15 751
50
50 10.00 12 759
Oalcland ---------- 1899
9 149
50
Crockett ----- - - 1899
San Jacinto _____ _ 1899
9 72
50
12 316
50
Fullerton---- - - 1900
1.00 12 222
50
Oxnard -------- 1901
9 254
San Fernando___ 1902
50
San Francisco _ _ 1902 IOO 10.00 12 488
Brentwood ____ 1902
12 71
30
4.50
9 453
Palo Alto ------- 1902 - 54
9 309
75
Richmond ----- - - - 1902
San Bernardino __ 1902
5.00 9 512
55
1902
Oakland _______ -_
1.00 12 848
50
Los Angeles ____ 1903
50 10.00 12 477
Los Angeles_ _ _ 1903
15 375
50
50 25.00 12 122
Pinole ·-------- 1903
San Francisco '---- 1903 100 20.00 12 477
1.00 12 718
50
Hollywood ---------- 1903
80
15 291
Mill Valley ~---- 1903
30
9 129
Buena Park ----- ---- 1903
Los Angeles _______ 1904
50
9 766
50 .
9
71
Loyalton -- ------ 1904
San Francisco ___ 1904 100
12 319
Fort Bragg______ 1904
50
5.00 9
97
75
9 116
Campbell ·----------- 1904
5.00 12 481
50
Berkeley --------· 1904
50
1.00 9 121
Willits -··"--'------- 1905
80
5.00 9 648
Fresno ------------------ 1905
South Pasadena______ 1905
70
12 453
50
12 370
Glendale ----- - - - - 1905
80
Ocean Park --- - - - 1905
12 320
San Francisco ______ 1905
50
5.00 12 448
Honolulu, H. T,____ 1905
80 10.00 12 427
55
5.00 9 165
Gardena - - - -- 1906
West Los Angeles._ 1906
80
3.00 12 210
50 25.00 12 129
San Francisco ____ 1906
50 10.00 12 532
San Francisco ___ 1906
75
5.00 12 196
So. San Francisco ____ 1906
30
9
77
Artesia ----- ------ 1906
Los ' Angeles ______ 1906
50 15.00 12 341
1.00 15 157
50
Fillmore ------ ---'- 1906
50 '-"-'-- 9 249
Huntington Beach__ 1906
50
9 133
Oceanside - - - ---- 1906
50
Los Angeles_ ___ 1907
12 403
50
15
85
Ot:osi -·----·---, 1907
El Centj'o________ ___:__ 1907
75
12 277
50
9 187
Dinuba ----------- 1907
12 261
Coalinga '.----~ 1907 100
100
10.00 12 590
San Francisco ~- 1907
75
9 545
Long Beach ____:__ 190-7
50 10.00 12 73
Imperial __.,:______ 1908
50
5.00 9
67
Tuolumne --- - - - - 1908
50 50.o<i - 9 903
Los AngeleS ...'..-..___;_ 1908
75 20.00 12 439
San Francisco __ __:__ 1908
50
12 476
Los Angeles:...i____~c. - 1908
Turi#; .,:;.:;______ 1908 •, 80
15 195
75
Alameda ·:.:.:...J__:.__._:_ -1908
1.0@ 12 353

I

No.

Rising Lighc________J97

302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346

Burlingame_____-_ _400
Bay View
401
Brawley___
402
- _.403
Yerba Buena____
404
Glendor
Moneta
405
Burbank_ _ _ _ _ _ _ 406
La Mesa________407
Sierra. Madre____ _ _408
Honolulu___________409
Charter Rock__ _ _ _ .410
Perris__
.411
Calexico.
412
W aucoba
.413
Arlington
_ .414
Silver TroweL_ _ _ .415
Lindsay________416
Clovis____________417
Elysian_____
418
Upland.__________ __ 419
Kerman __________- _420
Inglewood ___________421
Eagle Rock__________________422
York
__423
Exeter__ _ _______424
Holtville_________ _425
Midway________ ______426
Chino Valley____ __ 427
San Dimas__ _ ________.428
Pittsburg_____________.429
McCloud._____________.430
Alpha____________ _431
Hammonton.._ _______.433
Maricopa_
434
Fairmount______ __ _435
Claremont.__________436
Lancaster________.437
Acacia_________ _ 438
Tyrian.__________439
Standard__________440
Coronado___________44 l
Blackmer________.442
Scholield._____________ 443

347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361

Carpinteria _______ ____ 444
Wilshire______________ ,445
La Puente_____ ______ ,446
Torrance ____________,447
Mt. Diablo__________448
Park_ _ __________;..___ 449
Van Nuys--------~----·450
Montebello _____ __ _ _451
San PasquaL __________4,2
Bethlehem___________453
Crocker._____ _____454
Golden West.___ ______455
Ramona _______ _ _457
Henry S. Orme_____458
Riverbank
459

Fraternitf----~99

Location

Charter
Issued

Huntington Park_ 1908
San J0se _'.~
- _ . 1908
Burlingame ~- 1908
Oakland ------- 1909
Brawley ----------· 1909
Oakland - ----- 1909
Glendora ------------- 1909
Los Angeles________ 1909
Burbank ------------ 1909
La Mesa ---·- - 1910
Sierra Madre _ _ 1910
Honolulu --------- 1910
Berkeley - -------- 1910
Perris - - ---------- 1910
Calexico ----------- 1910
Big Pine -------------- 191 O
Los Angeles_______ 1910
Los Angeles_____ 1910
Lindsay--· - - - - 1910
Clovis - - - - - - 1910
Loe Angeles_______ 1910
Upland--- ------ 1911
Kerman ----·-------- 1911
Inglewood - -----·-- 1911
Eagle Rock --------- 1911
Los Angeles________ 1912
Exeter - - - . - -· 1912
Holtville ·------ 1912
Ta~t
, .
-...,- 1912
Chmo _:__:_..:_:______ 1912
San Dima.-._____________ 1912
Pittsbµrg ~~-.~---·----- 1912
~cC,l~~d -~..-~--------- 191€
R1chiii1>nd --------·---- 1912
Hammonton _.,.,..,... 11)13
Maricopa ----~~'.. 1913
San Francisco ----~:- 1913
Claremont ~----------- 1913
Lancaster _______:_ 1913
Los Angele&:.....________ 1913
Manteca ·..____::_________ 1913
Oakland ,..--- .-------·- 1914
Coronado --------·- 1914
San Diego _:_ _ _ 1914
Schofiel4 Barradcs,
H. T. __'.'.:::.:____·-~- 1914
Carpinteria ------------ 1914
Los Angeles-----~- 1914
Puente -----·-----~ 1914 ·
' 1914
Torrance -------Concord -··----~ 1914
San Francisco _~ 1914
Van Nuys ~ 1914
Montebello _::_ _____ 1914
Pasadena ------------- 1914
San Francisco __....:.:__ 1,915
Daly City · -------·----- 1915
San Francisco -------- 1915
Monterey Park ____:_ 1915
Los Angeles_____________ 1915
Riverbank ------- 1915

Fees

Ami.

Mem·

Fees Dues hers

75
12 569
50
9 372
50
18 . 399
75
5.00 12 335
75
15 127
80 25.00 12 488
30
12 91
75
12 624
75
5.00 12 340
50
3.00 12 180
50
12 76
80 10.00 12 221
50
5.00 12 351
30
3.00 9
80
50
5.oo · 12 129
30
9 41
9 310
50
75
5.00 12 296
50
12 148
50
9 244
50
10 412
50
3.00
9 137
51
75
9
80
3.00 12 344
50
12 273
50 25.00 9 189
50
10 149
75
9
90
50
12 358
50
9
54
35
12 111
75
1.00 12 169
50
9 104
75
9 388
50
9
62
50
9 150
50
12 467
50
9
88
60
6.00 12 122
50 10.00 12
57
50
12 97
75
12 309
50
9 189
80
9 586
80
50
75
50
50
50
75
50
50
70
50
50
50
50
75
30

5.00
1.00
10.00
3.00
5.00
10.0,0

9
12
12
10
15
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

210
73
499

66
209
165
414
306
251
333
280
291
452
210
5.22
80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

840

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

Ami.

Mount' O.o
460
ArgonauL461
Paul Revere_
462
Morgan HilL_____463
Alta Vi.tta__ _ _ _ _464

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

Mtm·

Fees Dues btl'I

Tracy
_ 1916
6.00 12 202
80
San Francisco ___ 1916
80 10.00 12 343
San Franci.tco _ _ 1916
1.00 12 435
50
Morgan HilL_ _ 1916
1.00 9 100
50
San Francisco _ _ 1916
12 262
75
9 347
80
Center
465 Fresno ------------ 1916
Libertas_____ _ _· _466 Bakersfield - - - - 1917 100
12 253
12 1.98
75
Culver Oty
467 Culver City ---- -- 1917
Rodcridge _________468 Oakland ---------- 1917
5.00 12 362
75
Yorba Linda___________469 Yorba Linda ------- 1918
12
83
50
470 San Francisco ____ 1918
50 10.00 12 262
Lincoln____
12 314
Delta
·471 Stoclcton ---- - -- 1918
80
12 145
50
Maui
472 Kahului, H. T,__ 1918
Blythe__ __ _ _ _ _473 Blythe - - - - - - - 1919
62
50
5.00 9
Victory
474 San Francisco ___ 1919
65 15.00 12 193
American_______475 Los Angeles ____ 1920
75 25.00 12 345
9 87
75
476 Coachella - -- - 1920
Coachella
Temblor___
477 Fellows - - - - - - - 1920
50
15 109
Thousand Oab_ _ _ _475 Berkeley --------- 1920
5.00 13 315
75
Golden Rule
479 San Jose - - - - - - 1920
9 388
50
480 Oakland -------- 1920
Fellowahip__
50
1.00 12 199
18 274
75
383 Mt. Davidson_ ____4s1 San Francisco ____ 1920
9 253
50
384 Clarence F. Smith____.482 Los Angeles_____ 1920
BeJl
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
453
12 247
50
385
Bell ----'----------·--- 1920
12 183
484 Los Angeles_________ 1920
386 Albert PiJce_
50
485 Chowchilla --------- 1920
387 Chowchilla___
50 1.00 12 74
12 233
486 Bakersfield ------ 1920
388 Caledonia
75
9 274
389 Vallejo_ _ _ _ _ _ _457 Vallejo --- ------ 1920
75 10.00
488 Patterson - - - - - - 1920
390 Patterson___
50 2.00 12 61
391 East Bay
489 South Berkeley ____ 1920
50 10.00 12 266
392 Corcoran
490 Corcoran - - - - 1920
12
83
75
491 Alameda - - - - - 1920
393 WoOdstoclc_
50 1.00 12 191
492 Los Angeles ____ 1920
394 Garvanza
12 164
50
395 Atascadero_ _ __ _493 Atascadero - - - 1920
50 5.00 9 67
Acom______
'
494
396
Oakland - ------ 1920
80 10.00 12 375
495 San Francisco - - - 1921
397 Lebanon________
100 10.00 12 306
Fremont.
____
______
_
:
__
497
50 1.00 12 327
398
Oakland - ------ 1921
80
12 134
399 Stoclcton ___________~--498 Stockton ---------- 1921
Capital
City
______
__
499
9 228
75 10.00
400
Sacramento -------- 1921
1'.oosevelt
____
.
_
_
________
500
San
Francisco
_____
1921
75
401
5.00 12 131
W
estwood
________
c..
_
_
.501
402
9 188
35
Westwood -------- 1921
. 403 Harbor___________502 Richmond - - - - 1921
9 186
75
75
404 PoinL - - - - - - - '03 Richmond --------- 1921
9 100
_______
__,04
Seaside
Long . Beach_______ 1921
405
80
10 303
406 Silver Cord. - - - - -.505 Santa Ana _ _ _ 1921
50 1.00 12 283
75 10.00 9 663
407 Mount Olive_____- - - ' °6 Los Angeles ________ 1921
50
408 El Segundo__:._ _ _ _ _507 El Segundo._______ 1921
9 177
50 5.00 9 57
409 Joppa ____________508 San Joaquin ____ 1921
50
410 Benjamin Franlclin_______.509 Los Angeles _____ 1921
12 220
10 Cupertino - - - - 1921
411 Cupertino__
50
9
87
· __ 1921
50
9 145
412 Sunnyvale_ _ _ _ ___ j l l Sunnyvale ___
.512 Palms ,;_____....__ 1921
50
9 174
413 Palms _________ ·
50 5.00 9 303
414 Cahuenga_________513 Los Angeles ______ 1921
5.00 12 330
415 Argonne:_________514 San Francisco ----- 1922 100
50
416 Vermont Square____________515 Los Angeles ..________ 1922
9 361
50
417 Taft__ _ _ _ __._____:;16 Taft ------------ 1922
12 178
80 10.00 12 293
418 Mount Vernon_____ _.:____ 517 San Francisco ___ 1922
60 25.00 12 145
419 La Jolla.____. ______--518 La .Jolla ____,;_.__ 1922
50
420 Euclid_____________519 Los Angeles__ _______ 1922
9 265
';20 Los Angeles ______ 1922
50 1.00 12 327
421 Ionic__
21 Piedmont - -- .-_:_ 1922
80
422 PiedmonL
~.00 12 217
362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382

841

Lodge

No.

.
Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

MemFees Dues bers

Ami.

Sunrise.___
22 · Los Angeles _ _ _ 1922 100
10 207
Bellilower____
__ 523 Bellflower - - - - - 1922
9 1_9 7
55
Catalina Island_____524 Avalon - - - - 1922 100
12
98
George Washington_____..525 San Francisco ____ 1922
50 10.00 12 480
Bay City________n6 San Francisco ___ 1922 100 10.00 12 422
Covenah.t..____· ________.527 Los Angeles______ 1922
9 248
5
Beverly Hills___________528 Beverly Hiffa ________ 1922
5.00 12 231
75
Loyalty____________________529 Los Angeles------- 1922
75
9 249
Sun Garden ..____________530 Fresno·- - - - 1922
9 376
80
Alexandria___________531 San Francisco ---·- - 1922
5.00 12 114
50
__532 Ceres ______ _:_ __ 1922
Smyrna
56
70
9
12 169
50
434 Azure___________.533 ·Fullerton - - - --· 1922
Forest
Hi11
_____
~34
55 10.00 12 99
San Francisco - -1922
435
50 1.00 12 140
436 Alexander Hamilton___535 Los Angeles _______ 1922
50 10.00 12 140
437 Seal Roclc ________536 San Francisco ____ 1922
9 490
75
438 Utopia _ _ _ ____ 537 Los Angeles _____ 1922
50
9 230
439 Ascot_ _ _ _ _ _ _.538 Los Angeles_____ 1922
. ____ __539 Belvedere ------ 1922
50
9 193
440 Belvedere_ _
80
9 117
441 Queen Beach _________540 Long Beach ------- 1923
55 5.00 9 287
442 Henry Morse Stephens_____.541 Berkeley -·------- 1923
75
5.00 ' 9 307
443 Lanlcershim__________542 North Hollywood.__ 1923
12 280
50
444 Signal.___________________ ___543 Long Beach ----- 1923
50
12 333
445 Glendale__________________544 Glendale - - - - - - 1923
5.00 12 153
50
446 Jonathan.____________________545 San Francisco ---·--- 1923
50
12 151
447 San OabrieJ._ _____,_________ 546 San Gabriel._______ 1923
. __547 Arcadia ----·----- 1923
12 134
50
448 /ttcadia.____________
50
15 130
449 Triang[e__,_"__________ 548 Venice--------- 1923
75 10.00 12 165
450 Justice __________.,549 San Francisco ____ 1923
75 25.00 12 162
451 Seaport___________ __ 550 San Francisco ___ 1923
50 5.00 12 180
452 Lalceshore ________551 Oakland - - - - - - 1923
50
12 143
453 Setnper Virens_________552 Eureka - - - - - 1923
80
5.00 12 252
454 Educator_____·_· _________554 San Francisco _ _ 1923
White
Pine
___
·
____
555
55 2.00 9 84
Weed - - - - - - 1923
455
80
12 118
456 Fairfaz~--------------556 Fairfax - - - - - - 1923
Hermosa
_______________
___
557
60
12 129
Hermosa Beach.~--- 1923
457
80
12 261
458 Point Firmin ____________..558 San Pedro--- --- - 1923
50
9 250
459 Craftsman_______________559 Los Angele•------- 1923
50
1.00 12 228
460 PIYll'IOUth _______________ _ ..560 Oakland ------ ----- 1923
75
9 378
461 East San Oiego. ______________ 561 East San Diego ______ 1923
50 1.00 12 193
462 Pyramid _______________,_.562 San Francisco-----~ 1923
Los
Angeles
_______
1923
50 25.00 9 317
463 South ParL_____________ .563
80
5.00 12 262
464 Foothill _____________:__.564 Oalcland --------- 1923
75
12 201
465 West Adams --·-----~65 Los Anjleles ____ 1923
466 James A. Garfield _ ______566 Los Angeles- - - - 1923 · 100 30.00 12 138
60
9 331
467 Searchlight _______ _ _ _.567 Long Beach ---'_ 1923
50
12 235
468 Park Boulevard._ _ _ _568 Oakland - - - - - 1923
75
1.00
216
469 Chateau Thierry_ _ _ _569 Oakland - - - - - - 1923
100 10.00 12 255
470 Military Service ___~ __-570 San Francisco _ _ 1923
5.00
75
9 182
471 Francis K. Shattuck_______571 Berkeley - · - - - - 1923
50
12 168
472 James Madison_________~_572 Los Angeles _______ 1923
75
12
54
473 Hillcrest "-- - - -- - - -573 Berkeley ------- 1923
80
9 237
474 S. W. Hackett_____,.:_______574 San Diego ______ _:_ ___ 1923
1.00 12 86
50
475 Fort Crook _______ _ _575 Fall River Mills..____ 1923
50
12
65
476 El Cajon Valley_____________5J6 El Cajon ---------- - 1923
12 258
75
477 Sunnysi4e-------~------577 Los Angeles.____._ 1923
_________
__
1923
Los
Angele$.
_
9 282
75 15.00
478 Progresa1ve -------------------578
9 217
75
479 Warren G. Harding_____579 North Sacramento __ 1924
30
12
59
480 Santa Maria--~-----------580 Ramona -- ------· 1924
12 214
481 Security____ ______ _581 Bakersfield - - - - 1924 100
9
89
55
482 Rialto.:. _ __ ~-------582 Rialto - - - - - - - 1924
12 149
80
483 Wasco
583 Wasco ·---·-·~ 1924
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
432
433

842

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
~dge

484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
496
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521.
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544

No.

Charter
Issued

Location

Harding ____________________________554 Los Angeles ___________ 1924
Manchester ___________________....585 Los Angeles.__________ 1924
Garden Grove _______ 586 Garden Grove ____ 1924
Valley Forge_________________.,,87 Los Angeles------~
El Sereno.._____________________588 Los Angeles.________ 1924
Kauai _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .589 Lihue, T. H. _____ 1924
Compass---------------------------.590 Pomona ---------- 1924
Escalon ______________________________ 591 Escalon
-------------- 1924
Tujunga ___________ 592 Tujunga - - - - - 1924
All States _______________________ 593 Long Beach ____:_____ 1924
Service __________________________594 Long Beach·------------ 1924
Alexander Graham Be!L_ 595 Los Angeles _____ 1924
Guardian ________________________.596 South Gate -------------- 1924
Pearl Harbor ________________ 598 Honolulu, T. H·---·- 1924
Carmelica ________ 599 Pasadena ------- 1924
Lynwood ----------------- 1925
Portola --------------- 1925
Melrose.______________602 Los Angeles ...... ______ 1925
Dimond ____________•___________603 Oakland
-------------- 1925
Jubilee.________________________604 Santa Ana _________ _, 1925
Glassell Park___________605 Los Angeles ____ 1925
Sojourner______________________607 Monrovia ------------- 1925
Granada .. ___________________________608 Alhambra ------------- 1925
Provident_ ________•____609 Sacramento ----- 1925
Elmhurst..__________________610 Oakland --------------- 1925
Canoga __________________________61 l Canoga Park ____________ 1925
Temple Cirr----·--'----.612 Temple - - - - - - 1925
Three Pillars ___________________ .613 Sacramento -------- 1925
Larchmont______________________6l 4 Los Angeles ..... ________ 1925
Hemee___________ -615 Hemet
---------- 1925
R. E. Doltey. __________________616 Seal Beach
1925
Big Bear _______________________617 Big Bear Lake _________ 1925
Southland.____________-618 Los Angeles _________ 1925
Neptune·--------------------619 Long Beach ----------- 1925
Point Loma ______________________620 San Diego ---------------- 1925
The Gardens __________ .621 Los Angeles ______ 1925
Atwater -----------------------------622 Los Angeles .. ___________ 1925
Menorah __________________________..623 Los Angeles. _____________ 1925
_.__
Fortirude.______________624 Oakland
1925
Angeles Mesa ___________________ .625 Los Angeles ___________ 1925
Chula Vista _______________________626 Chula Vista ..... _______ 1925
Lamanda Park._ _______627 Pasadena -~--- 1925
Truth. ___________________________ 628 Los Angeles ___'______ 1924
Fairview_________________:________..629
Inglewood ·------------- 1926
Ingleside _______________630 San Francisco ------- 1926
Benevolence ----------------~-------63 I Los Angeles _____________ 1926
Normal Heights.______________632 San Diego ------------·-· 1926
Poinsettia_ ___________ _(j3 3 San Buenaventura._ 1926
Victorville ·-------------------------6 J 4 Victorville _____:_ ____ 1926
Riverside·-------------------------63 5 Riverside ·------------ 1926
John Marsha!L________ ,,636 Los Angeles.._____ 1926
Palisades __________________________..637 Santa Monica--------- 1926
Indian Rock.·--------------------638 Berkeley -------·---------. 19 26
Composite-- - - - - - -639 Los Angeles ______ 1926
V eritas·-----------------------------640 San Francisco ------- 1926
James A. Foshay ________________641 Los Angeles ..__________ 1926
La Cumbre _________642 Santa Barbara ---- 1926
Alta Loma _____________________643 Signal Hill ________________ 1926
Lomita·-----·----------------------644 Lomita ---------------- 1926
A. F. E. Irwi~ _______645 San Pedro - - - - - 1926
Metropolitan _____________ ~-----646 Los Angeles ___________ 1926

~:~:::::::=:::=::::=:::==~~~

__ ___

Fees

50
80
50
75
50
75
70
50
50
50
50
50
75
80
70
75
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
75
80
50
50
75
50
'30
45
50
75
75
75
50
50
75
50
50
50
50
75
50
75
75
80
50
55
50
50
80
50
75
75
105
50
75
60
80
50

Allll.

DUH btl'I

5.00
20.00
25.00
12.50

148
221
98
223
211
104
145
78
157
300
336
175
358
335
202
149
102
126
185
174
230
73
342
190
138
112
126
202
194
95
82
50
186
120
143
211
192
377
135
325
114
112
159
115
98
198
228
335
85
180
101
212
137
157
90
115
91
234
114
163
81

12
12
9
9
12
10.00 12
2.00 12
12
9
9
9
5.00 12
12
15.00 12
12
-------- 12
10.00
9
10.00 12
1.00 12
1.00 12
9
12
10
10.00
9
1.00 12
1.00
9
12
10.00
9
15.00 18
9
12
12
5.00 12
9
9
.9
12.00
9
12
5.00 12
10
l.00 10
12
1.00 12
3.00 12
12
12
9
12
12

10
5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00

5.00

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

MIDI

Fees

9
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
9
12
12

843

Lodge

•

No.

Charter
Issued

Location

545 Hawthome .. _____________________ fJ47 Hawthorne ------------- 1926
546 Damascus__________________________648 San Bernardino._______ 1926
547 Florence_________649 Los Angeles ________ i927
548 La Brea________________________,650 Los Angeles ___________ 1927
549 Menlo Park.___________________651 Menlo Park____________ 1927
550 Crescenta Valley_ __ _ 652 Montrose
1927
551 Fonrana___________________________653 Fontana --------------- 1927
_____________________________
654
Jordan
Los Angeles ____________ 1927
552
553 Monte Vista __________ .655 Long Beach _____ 1927
__________________________
656
CitroL.
554
Brea -------------------- 1927
555 John D. Spreckels._____________657 San Diego ------------- 1927
556 Livingston _______________658 Livingston
1927
557 La Habra_________________________ 659 La Habra _________________ 1927
558 Baldwin Park _____________________660 Baldwin Park............ 1927
559 Malta __ ~----------661 Los Angeles _______ 1928
560 Henry Knox ____________________662 Los Angeles____________ 1928
561 Ojai.__________________________663 Ojai---------------------- 1928
562 Kaw~----------665 Woodlake ------- 1928
563 Reseda·--------------------------666 Reseda ------------------ 1928
564 Meridian ________________________.667
Glendale --------------- 1928
565 San Gorgonio _________ .668 Banning
------ 1928
566 . John P. Jarman___________________669
San Jose --------------- 1928
567 Greenleaf________________________ 670 Whittier
----------------- 1928
568 San Clemente ________..,671 San Clemente
___ 1928
Laguna
Beach
____________________
672
569
Laguna Beach --------- 1929
_________________________
673
·
Far
West..
570
San Francisco -------- 1929
571 Los Cerritos _________ ,674 Long Beach ------ 1929
_____________________
675
Modesto
.......
572
Modesto ---------------- 1929
573 Willow Glen·---------------------676 Willow Glen
----------- 1930
Arts
________
677
Liberal
574
Los Angeles ________ 1930
Ali:adena.
___________________________
678
575
Altadena
1930
576 Canbys Cross____________________.679 Tulelake -..-.;-.-.,....------ 1935
577 Carmel---------------680 Carmel -------------- 1935
578 Dos Palos...______________________ 681 Dos
Palos ------------ 1939
579 Barstow ___________________________682 Barstow
--------------- 1940
580 Redwood Empire_______ 683 Garberville
----- 1940
581 Trona _____________________________684 Trona
1941

---

-----

---------

------------------

Fees

Ami.

Fees

80
3.00
55
5.00
50
4.50
50 10.00
50
55
55 10.00
75
50
50
1.00
80
50
50
50
50
75 12.00
45
75
75
50
50
1.00
50
5.00
55
75
50
1.00
75 10.00
105 10.00
50
50
50
70
50
1.00
75
3.00
50
80 10.00
50
1.00
75

MemDues be rs

9
9
9
9
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
15
12
12
9
9
15
10
9
12
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
9
9
12
12
9
9
12
9
9
9

99
2_40
243
180
86
123
81
1.49
300
139
328
71
97
65
110
267
53
65
98
196
105
130
220
35
80
154
122
199
116
93
205
68
65
47
67
21
63

Total Membership August l, l9'f3_ _______________ ~·~ 129,510

'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

844

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

845

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
EXTINCT LODGES
• 4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
4 Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859. . .
9 Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No. 9,
· Dec. 1874.
51
11 Willamette Portland Ore. 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov., 18 .
15 La Fayette: La Faye~te, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov.,
1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter nev~r issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never 1SSued.
26 Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt. Jefferson
No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
29 Diamond Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelum'ne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13,
1883.
.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15; 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov., 1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp; 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8,
Sept. 15, 1919. .
63 Iowa.Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69, Mar 2,
1855.
69 Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian
No. 9, Dec., 1874.
.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Di1pensation granted 1857. Charter never issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka Ne tth, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma
No. 180, Dec., 1898.
.
82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
85 Indian Di~gings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 115,
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Chartpr revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Loui;, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, Nov.,
1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
March 29, 1916.
·
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena, Oct. 10, 1867.
.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8, 1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19, 1926.

98
99
100
102
105
107
108
109
114
115
116
118
119
121
125
130
133
137
138
142
148
151
152
153
154
155
157
158
159
160
162
. 163
165
170
171
172
175
176
177
180
182
185
189
197

Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite.. No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct., 1898.
Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
Mqunt Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Colum·
bia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
.
Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispen~ation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now known
as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913. :
Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No, 240, as Colusa No. 2.40,
April 1, 1882.
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.
Doric, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 1O, 1862.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
.
·
Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec., 1898.
Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
.
,
Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.
Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Lander, Austiq, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction qf Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never issued.
Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to• Antioch.
Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter ., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25,
1882.
Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No.
180, Dec., 1898.
Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered Jult 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never issued.

846
205

847

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.

Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No. 205,
October 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
•
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
227 Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadero, Pescad.ero, 1875". Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878.. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March
25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881. Transferred
to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March
25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911.
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13,
1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands, Dec. 19,
1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct. 1, .1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
373 Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
456 Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 18, 1925.
496 Riverdale, Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome 255, May 18, 1943.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554, Feb.
16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628 as
Truth No. 628, February 14, 1939.
611 Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15, 1931.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No. 597 as
Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
664 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.

Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850.
1850

1856

1862

Jonathan D. Stevenson, G. M. William H. Howard .... G. M. William C. Belcher.... G. M.
California No. I
Born Jan. I 1800
Died Feb. 14, 1894

John A. Tutt.......•.... D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner ........S. G. W.
Sashel Woods ····-··J. G. W.
Levi Stowell •... ______ G. T.
John H. Gihon ..............G. S.

1851

Corinthian No. 69

John A. Raymond .. D. G. M.
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. I, 1895
Lemuel Lyon ..........S. G. W.
Peter W. Randle ....J. G. W. Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
John W. Harville....S. G. W.
Addison Martin ............G. T. John B. Hewson .... _J. G. W.
Alex G. Abell .•·-·-··-··G• S. James Leidley _______ G, T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

1857

John A. Tutt.....:..:....... G. M. Nathaniel G. Curtis .. G. M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900

1863

Washinc;iton No. 20
Born Feb. 8, 1825
Died July 12, 1897

William C. Belcher.... G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Benj. D. Hyam ____ D. G. M. Charles Marsh ...- ... D. G. M. Louis Cohn ··--·-·S. G. W.
E. F. w. Ellis ·--····s. G. w. Aaron D. ParL...... S. G. W. Wm. A. Davies ...•_J, G. W.
James Laidley ······--····G. T.
Benj. S. Olds ....:..... J. G. W.
Towns'd A. Thomas...... G. T. John B. Pope...•...... J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
Levi Stowell ...•.•..., ...•.... G. S. Addison Martin ............G. T.
1864
Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
1852
William
C.
Belcher .... G. M.
Benjamin D. Hyam . .... G. M.
1858
Gil. B. Claiborne .... D. G. M.
Benicia No. 5
Born March I, 1813
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M. Wm. A. Davies........S. G. W.
Died July 12, 1893
P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M. ls1111c S. TituL ........J. G. W.
Chas. M.. Radcliff.. D. G. M. Wm. McC9rmicL..S. G. W. James Laidley .............. G. T.
Adolphus Hollub....S. G. W. Jas. W. Bicknell...... J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
J. R. McConnell .... J. G. W. Addison Martin ............G. T.
Addison Martin ............ G. T. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
1865
Levi Stowell ..............- .. G. S.
Gilbert
C.
Claibome .. G. M.
1859

1853

San Joaquin No. 19

Charles M. Radcliff.. G. M. Nathaniel G. Curtis .. G. M.
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908
Tuolumne No. 8
P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M.
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Wm. A. Davies...... D. G. M.
Ebenezer
Lane
........
S.
G.
W.
Died Dec. 31, 1889
Isaac S. Titus..........S. G. W.
T. A. Thomas.......... D. G. M. Thos. P. Hewley...... J. G. W. Henry H. Hartley.. J. G. W.
Jno. R. Crandell ....S. G. W. Addison Marti1J ............G. T. James Laidley ·--~-...-G. T.
Richard F. Knott.... J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S. Alex G. Abell ........ '.. __ G, S.
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
1S60
Levi Stowell ····-······-····G• S.
1866
Nathaniel
G. Curtis..G. M. Gilbert C. Claiborne.. G. M.
1854
William H. Howard ..G. M. P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M. Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher......S. G. W. Wm. H. Peterson ....S. G. W.
San Jose No. JO
Born Aug. 29, 1810
Alvinza Hayward .... J. G. W. Thomas Beck ..........J. G. W.
Died Sept. 18, 1866
Addison Martm ............ G. T.
Nath. G. Curtis.... D. G. M. Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S. James Leidley .....;:.... ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ..:........ G. S.
Rector E. Cole...... S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ...... J. G. W.
~1861
1867
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Levi Stowell ....!-~ .......... G. S. James L. English ......G. M. William A. Davies ...... G. M.

1855
William H. Howard ..G. M.
T. A. Thomas.......... D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond .. S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt...... J. G. W.
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Levi Stowell ··············-··G• S.

Sacramento No. 40
Born June 5, 1813
Died May 29, 1889

Wm. C. Belcher.... D. G. M.
John W. Harville....S. G. W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon .. J. G. W.
Ja~es Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...........G. S.

Columbia No. 28
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916

Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Thomas Beck ..........S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt....J. G. W.
James Laidley ········-····G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.

1868

1875

1882

Charles Marsh ............ G. M. John M. Browne..........G. M. Clay W. Taylor..........&. M,
Naval No. B7
Nevada No. 13
.Jonath. D. Hines.... D. G. M.
Born May 1-0, 1831
Born Dec. 6 1825
· Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Died April ~8, 1876
Leonidas E. Pratt.... D. G. M. Chas. L. Wiggin.... D. G. M. George Hinds _......J. G. W.
Theo. G. Cockrill....S. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnin......S. G. W. Moses Heller····-··········&• T.
Fredk. F. Barss........J. G. W. Jacob H. NefL..•..J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.........•....G. S.
James Laidley ········--·-';;· T. James Laidley -····-······G. T.
1883
Alex G. Abell.......•..- .. G. S. Alex G. Abell........... __ G. S. Jonathan D. Hines......G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
1876
1869
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M. John M. Browne..........G. M.
Mountain Shade No.18
Chas. L. Wiggin ....D. G. M. Wiley J. Tinnin ...... D. G. M.
Born Aug.
2'1, 1833
W m. S· W e II1..........S• G . W • Edm. C. Atkinson _S. G. W.
Died
Oct. 25,
1886
Hiram N. Rucker....J. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus....'...... D. G. M. Solon W. Craigue..J. G. W. Moses Heller .............. _G, T.
John S. Ward ··--···S. G . w. James Laidley .....•..•.....G. T. AIAx G. Abell..._ .....•.. G. S.
Richard Dale -········J. G. W. Alex G. Abell ............-G. S.
1884
James Laidley ······--·--G. T.
1877
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. John M. Browne.......... G. M. Jonathan D. Hines...... G. M.
1870
Chas. L. Wiggin.... D. G. M. Wiley J. Tinnin...... D. G. M.
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M. Wm. W. Traylor......S. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker....J. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus.......... D. G. M. ,Wm. H. Crane........J. G. W. Moses Heller ................ &. T.
Ch
L
S G W Moses Heller ····-······.... G. T.
~s.H F iggin __J. G.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. Alex G. Abell...........:..G. S.
Ben1. . reeman.... • . •
1885
James Laidley .....•......-G. T.
1878
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S. John M. Browne..........G. M. Wiley J. Tinnin ...........•G. M.
Trinity No. 27
1871
Wm. W. Traylor .... D. G. M.
Born· Oct. 7, 182'1
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Wm
H.
Crane
..•••...
S.
G.
W.
Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M.
Robt. C. Broder...•..J. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson .. D. G. M.
Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M. Moses Heller.-.!..... - ....G. T. Hiram N. Rucker....S. G. W.
Ben. H. Freeman....S. G. W. Alex G. Abell... ...........G. S. Henry H. Knapp....J. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins......J. G . W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T.
1879
James Laidley ······-······G. T.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. William · W. Traylor.... G. M.
1886
California No. I
1872
Edmund C. Atkinson .. G. M.
Born March 17, 1822
Sacramento No. 40
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M.
Died Jan. 18, 18B3
Born Nov. 17, IB37
Benj. H. Freeman.. D. G. M. Samuel C. Denson .. D. G. M.
D\ed March 20, 1911
Geo. C. Perkins......S. G. W. Clay W. Taylor...... S. G. W. Hiram N. Rucker.... D. G. M.
John M. Browne....J. G. W. John Q. Adams......J. G. W. Morris M. Estee......S. G. W.
James Laidley ..............G. T. t '.oses Hell<1r ····-·-·······G. T. Alvah R. Conklin....J. G. W.
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...........G. S.
1873
1880
Isaac S. Titus_...•...._ ..G. M. Samuel C. Denson ......G. M.
1887
San Joaquin No. 19
Union No. 58
Hiram N. Rucker ......G. M.
Born Oct. 14, 1827
Born Sept. 23, 1839
I.a Grange No. 99
Died April 22, 1892
Died July 26, 1917
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Geo. C. Perkins...... D. G. M. Clay W. Taylor ...... D. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne......S. G. W. John Q. Adams......S. G. W. Morris M. Estee...... D. G. M.
Chas. E. Mitchell ....J. G. W. 0. W. Hollenbeck..J. G. W. Alvah R. Conklin....S. G. W.
James Laidley ······-······G• T. Moses Heller ................G. T. Wm. Johnston ........J. G. W.
Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S. Alex G . Abell.............. G, S. Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

w· .

1.874

w·

1881

849

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

848

1888

George C. Perkins ....G. M. Clay W. Taylor...._.... G. M. Morris M. ~stee........G. M.
California No. I
Oroville No. 103
Western Star No. 2
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Born Aug. 23, 1839
Died Oct. 7, 1903
Died May I, IB97
Died Feb. 26, 19~3
Alvah
R. Conklin.... D. G. M.
John M. Browne.... D. G. M. John Q. Adams...... D. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker........S. G. W. Jonath. D. Hines....S. G. W. William Johnston ....S. G. W.
Wiley J . Tinnin ...•..J. G. W. Thos. J. Bowers......J. G. \I{. Marc. D. Boruck......J. G. W.
James Laidley ······--···G• T. Moses Heller ................G. T. Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell ..............G. S. Alex G. Abell.......•_.... G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

1889

1895

1901

Morris M. Estee........G. M. Edward M. Preston •...G. M. William S. Wells...__G. M.
Martine% No. 41
Nevada No. 13
William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Born June 24, 1861
Born May 4 1841
Died Jan 23, 1919
,
Chas. R. Gritman..S. G. W.
Died April 24, 1903
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W. Wm. T. Lucas........ D. G. M. O. S. Henderson .... D. G. M.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T.
Chas. W. Nutting .. S. G. W.
Alex G. AbelL.......__G. S. Thomas Flint ..--S· G. W. Geo. W. Hunter .•..J. G. W.
F. M. Angellotti...•..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman...•......G. T. Edward Coleman...•......G. T.
1890
George Johnson .........•G. S. George Johnson..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L.
Alvah R. Conklin......G. M.
1902
Inyo No. 221
1896
S. Henderson ....G. M.
Born 1835
William T. Lucas........G; M. Orrin
Mornlnc;i Star No. 68
Died Oct. 5, 1897
Guadalupe No. 237
Born June 2, 1863
Born March 18, 1850
William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Died June 25, 1940
Died March 21, 1931
Chas. R. Gritman .. S. G. W.
Chas. W. Nutting .. D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W. Thomas Flint ..........0. G. M. Geo. W. Hunter ....S. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. F. M. Angellotti ....S. G. W. Motley H. Flint......J. G . W.
George Johnson ...•......G. S. Chas. L Patton...•..J. G. W . Edward Coleman....- .... G. T.
Edward Coleman ...•......G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L
1891
1903
William Johnston •.....G . M.
1897
.
Charles W. Nutting ....G. M.
Franklin No. 143
Thomas
Flint
..
-······-..
G·
M.
Evenlnc;i Star No. 186
Born June 2, 1825
Texas No. 46
Born Oct. 3, 1852
Died Nov. 14, .1905
Born May 19, 1858
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Died Nov. 18, 1936
Chas. R. Gritman .. D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ...•..S. G. W. F. M. Angellotti ___D. G. M. Geo. W. Hunter.... D. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevells........J. G. W. Chas. L. Patton......S. G. W. Motley H. Flint ......S. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. Jas. A. Foshay........J. G. W. Edw. H. Hart..........J. G. W.
George Johnson ..........G. S. Edward Coleman ..........G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
George Johnson.......... G. S.
George Johnson..........G. S. Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L

1892

1898

1904

' 1899

1905

Charles R. Gritman ....G. M. Frank M. Angellotti....G. M. George W. Hunter.... G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Marin N<>. 191
Yount No. 12
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Born-Born Dec. 10, 1838 ·
Died May 23, 1932
Died Oct. 14, 1925
Died May 14, 1894
Henry S. Orme...... D. G. M. Chas. L. Patton...... D. G. M. Motley H. Flint...... D. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens........S. G. W. Jas. A. Foshay........S. G. W. Edw. H. Hart..........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston......J. G. W. Wm. S. Wells..........J. G. W. Geo. M. Perine......J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding..G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
. George Johnson .......... G. S. George Johnson..:.......G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L.

1893

Henry S. Orme..........G. M. Charles L. Patton ......G. M. Motley H. Flirit.......... G. M.
East Gata No, 290
So. California No. 278
California No. I
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Born March 25, 1837
Born 1865
Died July 14, 1930
Died Nov. 2'1, 1912
Died April 11, 1923
Edward H. Hart .... D. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens...... D. G. M. Ju. A. Foshay........ D. G . M. Geo. M. Perine......S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston .... S. G. W. Wm. S. Wells.......... S. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd ....J. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..........J. G. W. 0 . S. Henderson ....J. G. W. Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T: Edward Coleman.......... G. T. George Johnson ..........G. S.
George Johnson..........G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S. Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L.

1894

1900

1906

James A. Foslyiy........G. M. Edward H. Hart..........G. M.
Liva Oak No. 61
Ja.mes B. Stevens........G. M.
·so. California No. 278
Born 1858
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Yount No. 12
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Born March 27, 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1919
Wm. S. Wells.......... D. G . M. Geo. M. Perine ......D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston.... D. G. M. 0. S. Henderson ....S. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd ....S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..•.......S. G. W. Chas. W. Nutting ..J. G. W. Oscar Lawler ..........J ..G. W.
Thomas Flint............J. G. W. Edward Coleman..........G . T. Edward Coleman ..........$. T.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T. George Johnson.......... G. S. George Johnson .......... G. S.
George Johnson ..........G . S. Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L. Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L.

PROCEEDINGS OF ' THE

850

1907

1913

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1919

George M. Perine......G. M. John D. Murphey .•.•..G. M. Chas. Albert Adams.. G. M.
Alta No. 333
Excelsior No. 166
Pacific No. 136
Born July 7, 1863
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Born 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Geo.
F. Rodden .... D: G. M.
Benj.
F.
Bledsoe
......
D.
G.
M.
Reuben H. Lloyd .... D. G. M.
Oscar Lewler..........S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett......S. G. W. Sem. E. Burke..........S. G. W.
W. Frank Pierce ....J. G. W. F. V. Keesling ........J. G. W. Wm. A. Shermen....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.........•G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
George Johnson.......... G. S. John Whicher --·--···G. S. John Whicher .....•........G . S.
Thomes J. Beker..........G. L. Thomes J. Beker...•......G. L. Thomes J. Beker..........G. L.

1908

1914

1915

1921

W. Frank Pierce........ G. M.
E. Burke........G. M.
Albert G . Burnett ...... G. M. Samuel
Oakland No. 188
Sunset No. 352
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Born
Feb.
I~, . 1870
Born April 9, 1856
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Died Aut;1. 15, 1923
Wm.
A.
Shermen
.... D. G. M.
Dene R. Weller...... D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe..........S. G. W. F. V. Keesling ~..•.... D. G. M. Arthur S. Crites......S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer........J. G . W. Wm. Rh. Hervey....S. G. W. David J. Reese........J . ~· W.
Edward Colemen..........G. T. Bradford Webster..J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomes J. B11ker..........G. L. John Whicher ..............G. S. Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L.
Thomes J. Baker.......... G. L.

1922

1910

1916
William A. Shermen:.G. M.
Dene R. Weller.·--····G. M.
Francis V. Keesling .... G. M.
Presidio No. 354
So. California No. 278
Born Sept. 17. 1880
California No. I
Born March 24, 1874
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Born Feb. 17, 1877
A. J . Monroe .......... D. G. M.
Wm.
Rh.
Hervey
....
D.
G.
M.
Arthur
S. Crites...... D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer ........S. G. W.
J . D. Murphey........J. G. W. Bradford Webster..S. G. W. David J. Reese ......S. G. W.
Edward Colemen.......... G. T. Ches. A. Adems....J. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton......J. G. W.
John Whicher ..............G . S. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
Thomes J. Beker..........G. L. John Whicher ·········-···G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Be keu ....... G. L. Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L.
1911

1917

1923

1918

1924

Alonzo J. Monroe...... G. M.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .. G . M. Arthur S. Crites..........G . M.
Humboldt No. 79
Pentalpha No. ·202
Bakersfield No. 22,4
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Born March 26, 1870
Born Feb. 4, 1879
Died June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer........ D. G. M. Bradford Webster.. D. G. M. David J. ReeH...... D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey........S. G. W. Ches. A. Adems.... ~.S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton ......S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe......J. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ......J . G. W. Geo. L. Jones..........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..........•....G. S. John Whicher .....~......•G. S. John Whicher ....•.........G. S.
Thomes J. Baker.......... G.L Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L. Thomas J . Baker..........G . L.

1912

1925

1930

1935

Albert E. Boynton...... G. M.
Oroville No. 103
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Geo. L Jones..•._.... D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer .._..S. G. W.
Gus. A. HutefL.....J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ····----G. S.
Thomes J. Beker...•......G. L

John Stewert Ross......G. M.
El Centro No. 384
Born May 21, 1879
Robt. B. Gaylord .... D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter ....S. G. W.
James B. Gist........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ........_ ...G . S.
Thomas J. Beker...- ..... G . L.

Earl Warren ··········-····G. M.
Sequoia No. 349
Born March 19, J891
Rollie W . Miller...... D. G. M.
James T. Fraser......S. G. W.
Leon 0 . Whitsell....J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ..........:.G. L

1920

Oscar Lawler ·............•G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe.......... G. M. George F. Ro.d den....G. M.
Marin No. ·191
East Gate No. 290
San Bernardino No. 348
Born Dec. 24, 1867
Born April 2, 1875
Born Feb. 8, 1874
Died Mar. 8, 1934
Died Oct. 30, 1938
W. Frank Pierce .... D. G. M.
Sem.
E. Burke ........ D. G. M.
Alb.
G.
Burnett
....
D.
G.
M.
Dane R. Weller......S. G. W.
Wm. A. Shermen....S. G. W.
F.
V.
K.resling
.......
:s.
G.
W.
A. J. Monroe ..........J. G. W.
Arthur S. Crites......J. G. W.
Edward Colemen.........•G. T. W. Rh. Hervey ........J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher .............•G. S. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. John Whicher ...........;.. G . S.
Thomas J. Beker..........G . L. John Whicher ..............G. S. Thomas J. Beker..........G. L.
Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L.

1909

851

Wm. P. Filmer............ G . M. Bradford Webster ......G. M. David J . Reese ............G . M.
Kini; Solomon No. 260
Live Oek No. 61
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born March 2, 1866
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Born Aut;1. 22, 1871
Died November 22, 1942
.Died Nov. 9, 1934
. Died June 4, 1941
Jno. D. Murphey.... D. G. M. Ches. A. Adems.... D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton...... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe......S. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ......S. G. W. George L. Jones ....S. G. W.
Alb. G. BurnetL...J. G. W. Sam. E. Burke..........J . G. W. Will H. Fischer......J. G. W.
Edward Colemen..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ·····'···-···G . S. Jolin Whicher -·······-···G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L Thomas J. Beker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Beker.......... G. L.

1926
George L. Jones...•.._G. M.
Madison No. 23
Born May II, 1873
Will H. Fischer...... D. G. M.
Gus. A. HutafL.....S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg ..J. G. W.
· Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ······---G. S.
Thomes J. Beker..........G. L

1931

1936

Robt. B. Geylord ...•....G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born Nov. 24, 1876
Frank W. Mixter.... D. G. M.
Jemes B. Gist...•--..S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher - ······-···G• S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G . L.

Rollie W. Miller..........G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, 1883
Jemes T. Fraser...... D. G. M.
Leon 0. Whitsell....S. G. W.
William H. Waste ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher...•............ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood .............. G. L.

1932

1937

1927
Will H. focher ··-······G• M.
Wilshire No. 445
Born Sept. II, 1875
Gus. A. HutefL..... D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg ..S. G. W.
J. S. Ro11................J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ······--·-G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Frank W. Mixter........G. M. James T. Fraser.......... G. M.
Exeter No. 424
Humboldt No. 79
Born Dec. 30, 1873
Born Aut;1. 28, 1868
James B. Gist........ D. G. M. Leon 0. Whitsell.... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton ........S. G. w. William H. Weste..S. G. W.
R. V. Whiting ........J. G. W. William B. Ogden..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. · Wm. Parker Filmer...•.. G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher.............._G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L. Leslie E. Wood ............G. L.

1928

1933

1938

Gustav A. 1-iutaff......G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Od. 5, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg .. D. G. M.
J. S. Ro11................S. G. W.
Robt. B. Gaylord ....J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher - ············G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.......... G. L.

James B. Gist............G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Aut;1. 8, 1868
R. V. Whiting ........ D. G. M.
Earl Warren ..........S. G . W.
Rollie W. Miller....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher _.......•..••G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Leon 0. Whitsell.. ......G. M.
Orant;1e Grove No. 293
Born July 10, 187~
William H. Waste .. D. G. M.
W illiam B. Ogden .S. G. W .
Lloyd E. Wilson ......J G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..:.....G . T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Leslie E. WoorL..........G. L.

1929

1934

1939

C. M. W.ollenberg ......G. M. Randolph V. Whiting ..G. M. William B. Ogden...... G. M.
Hollywood No. 355
Starr King No. 344
King Solomon No. 260
Born Aug. 26, 1876
Born March 13, 1873 ' .
Born Nov. 30, 1870
John S. Ross.......... D'. G. M. Earl Warren .......... D. G. M. Lloyd E. W ilson ...... D. G. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord ....S. G. W. Rollie W. Miller...... S. G. W . Frank M. Smith ......S. G. W .
Frank W. Mixter....J. G . W. James T. Fraser......J. G. W. Leslie E. Wood ......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer........G. T.
John ·Whicher ·······'·-···G• S. John Whicher - ···-·-····G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Beker..........G. L f Leslie E. Wood ............G. L. Walter Leonard ............G. L.

•

PRO'CEEDINGS OF THE

852
1940

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1941

1942
Lloyd E. Wilson_________ $. M. Frank M. Smith............G. M. Leslie E. Wood ....,.......G. M.
Ingleside No. 630
Born Aug. 16, 1895

East Gate No. :no
Born April I, 1894

Provident No. 609
Born April 2, 1897

Frank M. Smith........ D. G. M. Leslie E. Wood ...... D. G. M. Claude H. Morrison .. D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood ........S. G. W. Claude H. Morrison..S. G. W. Gilbert C. DeForesLS. G. W.
Claude H. Morrison ..J. G. W. G. C. DeForest........J. G. W. Lawrence C. Kelley..J.G.W. •
Wm. Parker Filmer........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer........G. T. · Wm. Parker Filmer........G. T.
John Whicher................G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ............G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson............G. S.
Walter Leonard ............G. L. Chester H. Warlow......G. L. Chester H. Warlow......G. L.

- 1943
Claude H. Morrisonc......--·····-···-···-·····------·-..·--·-··-...............:......................._.6rettd Master
San Diego No. 35
Born July 10, 1887

Gilbert C. DeForest.............................................................................. Deputy Grand Master
Lawrence C. Kelley.......................................................,......................Senior Grand Warden
Arthur W. Brouillet....................................:.........................................Junior Grand Warden
Francis V. Keesling..........................................................................:............. Grend Treasurer
Lloyd E. Wilson......................................_________________.......________________.,__________ Grend Secretary
Chester H. Werlow.........------------·--..---------------·------·-------------·-···-..----·------·-··----Grend Lecturer

853

LIST OF INSPECTORS
Inspectors

Date of Com.mission

Di.strict

Clark H. Shaw...............;.•:.............................July, 1911......-------······ 97
C. S. Baldwin...........•-···--·--·········-········...Janual'y, 1915..·--····-·····-········· 7
Harry W. Bessac ...........................:...... February, 1918......-------··-········ 49
Karl L. Ratzer--··-'····---··-·•""'·-·--•········-January · 1, 1921.......___________,,...:..:..117
John M. Icardo............. ~---····-·-----:....:......] anuary, 1921.................................:115
Ralph M. Foote................................ September 5, 1922.................................. 26
Chester C. Morris.................................. February, 1923.............................. _ 37
James B. McLees..........................Decembe~ 27, 1923..................:..........:....109
Frederick (;, Warner......................:.......October, 1924. ...~----...........:....... 83
F. J. ·J oubert........:.....................:............ N 0-vember, 1924.................................. ·12
S. Leslie Hawkcn..·............................;January 27, 1925.................................: 52
Arthur E. Tangeman....................:... Febr.uary 1, 1925................................... 94
Frank C. -Fa11oon.:..........................:....... October, 1925............:····-··---·-....:..:·. 75
Henry C. MacMaster.............~ .............. February, 1926.............." ..................lOl
Joel S. Conklin...........................................January, 1927.................................. 11
C. A. Shepherd..:-............................. N ovember 1, 1927..................................»2
Thomas A. Dille............................. November 12, 1927.................................. 78
Clarence· L. Fraser...............................Decemb.er, 1927.................................. 63
Manley J . .Clark................:................:.....,...:.............. i9Za.-............,........ __ 39
Wm. S . .Thompson...........:.......................... March 1928............................_ ... 59
Bernard F . Hois>holt___...............~November 1, 1928.................................. 27
Wm. L. Hovis......................................December, 1928.................................. 79
Rudolph Mohr, Jr .................................. ~January, 1929.................................. 46
J .· Lynn Goode................... _.,:..............Ja.nuary 1, 1929..................................' 81
A. E. Blanchard...........................................,........:.. 1930..................................116
Sophus Nelson..........................................J.anuary, 1930.................................. 38
Geo; P. Salm...........................................:..June 14, 1930.................................. 82
Harry 0. Carlson............::........................July ~ l, 1930..........._ .................... 57
Alfred F. Breslauer...............................;January, 1931...............................,.. 43
Horace E. Vedder..........................December 16, 193L,...........,....,..:..:.~····· 91
Norman G. Johnson..................;...•.......:.January, 1932.................................. 2
Walter G. Orman.............:.............,......,.January, 1932........................c.••:···... 1
Truman Van Dykc....................:......:... February, 1932................:...~.........,... · 76
George A. Otis ...........:.........:.-.......................May, 1932...............,.,._.............112
Niles O. Millar.....................::.......~ ................July; .1932...........,............:.,.....:·~ 32
_Harry Nelson........................................January 1, 1933..............._................;; 31
Jos. S. Greenley..................................:..January , l, 1933.........._ .................... 54-A
Thomas B. Pollard.................................. January, 1933-............................... 19
Louis Mittelrnan............................................April, 1933. •..........- ..........,....... 29
T. Glenn Wright.................................. August 8, 1'933...- ........................... 20
Harry S. Clark...........................;........... October 1, 1933..- ............................. lll
W . R. Farmer....................:..,...;...~......,...January, 1934___,......................... 92
Herman Thode............................................March,. 1934........:......................;. 8
W. J: Co.urtiour............,...........~........August 13, 1934-·-··························· 98

854

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Inspectors

Date of Commission

Inspectors

District

H. R. Hargrave·--··--·--····················September 15, 1934·--······--·······-·-············:. 62
Chas. H. Knights .......................:....December 28, 1934--····················:..._...•. 108
Alexander D. Potts......................:.....J anuary 1, 1935-.-·······················~---.103
Walter Von KonskY······-·······-·······•··•-January 1, 1935·-··········-······-······,·- ··· 41
Arthur Joel (served 1919 to 1931) ..January 1, 1935-·-··-·-··-···············-··;· 48-A
A. L. Auradou......................................January 1, 1935..................................113
W. I. Kohnke ..·-····--············'···············-.January ·1, 1935..................:......._....•,. 47
John Behrens·-··········-··················-···-····-January 2, 1935....·-··--···········...······-···114
Chas. S. Hogan..................................:........... April, 1935.................................. 5
Carl C. Mikesell.........·-··················--········October, 1935..........._....................'..104-A
Samuel Dollar .................................•...... December, 1935 ............•..........·-········ 61
Willard G. Babcock..........................January 10, 1936.....- ...........................106
A. H. Allen.·-······························-···-·····-January, 1936.....,:........................... 100.
James W. Robinson ................................January, 1936.·--·······-······················ 16
Wm. L. Davis ....'·--··--'····:····-·······-···········October, 1936....·-·········-·······"'"-····-·· 60
Frank Harwell, Jr ............................. October 10, 1936 ................................. 84
'vVilliam C. Gover.................................... October, 1936 ........................·-······· . 6
John R. Moore............-..................... October 31, 1936......................:.......... 86
Carl F. Peters .................................. November 1, 1936.·-·······-··············-········ 80
George S. Ward........._.......................January 1, 1937.................................. 4
Lucas Schaffer...~............:................•_...January 1, 1937.................................. 14
Keith W. Schlaegel.......................... February 10, 1937....- ............................ 99
Gustaf A. B. Quick. .........:.........................J une 5, 1937..•............................... 71
Russell W. Giles_........................-N ovember 16, 1937························-········ 56
Ralph H. Logsdon .............................. December, 1937.•.........................•.•.- .104
Karl F. Stolting.._............................ _........ April 1, 1938..............---··'·····-········ 50
Fred Weed ............................................ September, 1938.................................110
Roy C. Bryan ...................................... October 12, 193R···-····························· 77
George L. Stivers......_....................... November, 1938.................................. 23
Guido de Ghetaldi............ _.......:............ October, 1938 .·--······--····················· 18
Wm. H. A. Fleischer...•.................... November, 1938................................. 42
Leonard Gross ................................ December 17, 1938...........•..............·-······ 96-A
Harold L. Mason......-.............................January, 1939 .......·-··········-·············· 15
Roy S. Lenthall....................•.................January, 1939....- .....•...................... 36
Chas. H. Foye,..•...................;_;·"t"·······-January 1, 1939 ........-........................ 87
Ralph C. Hine:..................:............:..._...... August, 1939 ..·--·-····-·-···········- 70
E. L. Smith ...................................,-......January l, 1939.....·-·····-··············-····· 9
Geo. E . Delavan, Jr ................................. August, 1939 .................................. 73
Hardus Sorkness.................................. November, 1939................................._107
Wm. H. Baxter.........c.: .........•....•...•..•.. Decemher, 1939..•..............................• 65
J. Wesley Sibole.................................. December, 1939.................................. 25
Ralph M. Small...............::::._......:.............:.................1940..............................-.. 40
Frederick A. Penn .........·-··········-·········.-···-··············:.1940.........:...................-. 51
Harry L. J asper ................................February 1, 1940.......................·-········· 24
Ralph L. Pierson.:...................................... May 6, 1940.................................. 95

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

855

Date of Com11Wsion

District

J. Tyler Parker, Jr............................. September, 1940..........................._..... 90
E. L. Hicok (Served 1923 to 1936) .... 0ctober, 1940.................................. 17
Albert J. Erichsen ·--·-····················--·--November, 1940.:............................... 105
Harold S. Morrison .......................... December 1, 1940.............................·-··· 89
Emil Bender::..........,.....,.......................January 1, 1941..........................:....... 44
Chris J . Christensen......'.......,..............January 1, 1941...._............................. 48C
Elbert W . Davis.........................................Jan. 11, 1941................_................ 33
Owen L. Craghead..............,................. March 20, 1941.....................:............ 58
Henry Kaiser ... ~......................................_.:.April 1, 1941.................................. 55
Rolla L. Eubanks.......................................... April, 1941.................................. 30
Edward B. Gould........................................ May l, 1941............-...................... 64
Joe T. Moran .......·-···-·······-············----·····-·--····May, 1941................,................. 13
John Ferguson, Jr ............................... Odober 7, 1941..........:....................... 45
Henry C. Mack...........:..........: .................January, 1942.................................. 66
Theodore H. Rowcliffe..........................January, 1942 .._............................... 67
Nels H . Johnson ..................................January 6, 1942..................•............... 53
Leighton D. Armstrong._................ February i, 1942...........................:...... 22
Robert K. McGuire............-........... February 26, 1942........·-························ 88
Miles ]. McClelland .................!... _...... March 10, 1942.................................. 21
G. Ellsworth Meyer ..........,.....................April 9, 1942............c.•••••••: •••••••••••• 85
William A. Sharp ...... ~........................ October 6, 1942 ........:........................ 68
Bert T. Baker ...................................... October 7, 1942.........................·-······· 48-B
Frank M. Wright.............................. October 31, 1942...........:...................... 93
Earl D. Fonda................................December 13, 1942 ................................. 10
Edmund B. Skinner ..:................•........January 8, 1943. ,...........::........... ~---··· 96
Orville L. Coburn..................................... March 3, 1943. ................................ 66
Morris B. DePass, Jr ..............•.......... March 27, 19.43 .......................:..,.....:li8
Edward A. Siems ........ ~ ........................... April 18, 1943 .......................,........_ 34
Edwin G. N elson....,............................ :.,April 18, 1943........•........................ 38A
Elmer M. Hopper .................................. May 10; 1943................................. 3
Henry S. Savage, Jr ...........•:......................July 4, 1943 ................................. 35
Bert C. Bullock. ........................... September 23, 1943 ................................. 28

•

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

856

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

*Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
The Grand Lodge of Bahia·
The Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
The Grand Lodge of Para
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
Canada:
AlbertaMasonic Temple, Calgary.
British ColumbiaFrank S. McKee, Grand ·Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
OntarioEwart G. Dixon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton, Ontario.
Manitoba]. H. G. Russell, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
New BrunswickR. D. Magee, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova Scotia} am es C. Jones, Grand .Secty.,
F . M. Hall, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward Island. L. A. McDougall, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
Quebec,
W. W. Williamson, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1559, Montreal, Quebec.
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chile:
Rod Castro 0., Grand Secty.,
Av. 656, Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
*Colombia:
National Grand Lodge at BarranquillaEugenio Baena Manotas, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 333.
The Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogota.
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena.
Costa Rica:
Rafael Obregon Loria, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, San Jose, Costa Rica.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

857

Cuba, Isle of:
..
Dr. Luis Martinez Reys, Grand Secty.,
Aparto 72, La Habana, Cuba.
*Czecho-Slovakia:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia at Prague.
*Denmark:
Equador:
Jose A. Vallejo, Grand Secty.,
Guayaquil, S. A.
Egypt:
' Abd El Maguid Younis, Grand Secty.,
The National Grand Lode of Egypt, Cairo, Egypt.
England:
Sidney A. White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Lon<;l.on, England.
*France:
Independent National Grand Lodge.'
*Germany:
The Grand Lodge of Saxony.
Grand Lodge "Concord" at Darmstadt.•
Grand Lodge "German Fraternal Chain" at Leipzig.
Grand National Mother Lodge of the Prussian States,
"The Three .Globes,'' at Berlin.
·
Grand Lodge of Hamburg.
The Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union at Frankfort.
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship at Berlin.
The National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons at Berlin.
The Grand Lodge "Zur Sonne" at Bayreuth.
Guatemala:
Pedro Donia 0., Gran.d Secty...,
Apartado 312, Guatemala City,, C. A.
*Holland:
Honduras:
M. F . Rodriguez, Grand Secty.,
Teguciagalpa, Honduras.
Ireland:
H. C. Shelfard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico, F. T. Berger, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
· .
.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific, Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
.
Jam es S. Miller, Grand Secretary, .Masonic Hall, Sidney, N. S. W .
New Zealand:
H. A. Lamb, Grand Secty:,_
. P .. 0. Box 562, Dunedin, New Zealand.

·.

858

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

859

*Norway:
Panama:
Andres Mojica, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, C. A.
Peru:
Vicente E. Vega, Grand Secty.,
Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Antonio Gonzalez Grand Secty.,
P. 0 .. Box 990, Manila, P. I.
Puerto Rico:
Rudolfo Ramirez-Pabon. Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Box 747, San Juan, Puerto Riro.
Queensland:
Leslie P . Marks, Grand Secty.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Salvador (Cuscatlan):
Jose Lacayo Tellez, Grand Secty.,
San Salvador, C. A.
Scotland:
W. King Gillies, Grand Seety.,
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
South Australia:
· R. Owen Fox, Grand Secty.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
Sweden:
Vngye G. Wisen, Grand Secty.,
Frimurarelogen, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerland:
The Chancery of the Grand Lodge Alpina,
Bogenschutzenstrasse, 8, Berne, -Switzerland.
Tasmania:
W. H . Strutt, Grand Secty.;
Hobart, Tasmania. Australia.
Victoria:
Wm. Stewart, Grand Secty.,
Melbourne, Australia.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A. E . F . Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250) Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Al!'ha (431) , Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Signal Hill.
Alta Vista ( 464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

B

*Yugoslavia:
Grand Lodge of the Serbs-Croats & Slovenes.
*The ruthless .hand of ignorance, the devastation of war and the
tyranny of despots renders impracticable or impossible the practice of fraternal intercourse with the Grand Jurisdictions designated thus (*), but the Grand Lodge of California has taken no
actio~ severing the fraternal bonds which bind us together.

Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Bethlehem (453) , San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528),• Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195) , Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406) , Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
, Bell ( 483), B,eq.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belvedere (539), Los Angeles.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.

*Vienna:
West Australia:.
A. E . Jensen. Grand Sectv..
Perth. West Australia.

Amador (65); Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atw~ter (622) , Los Angeles.
·
' Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

c
Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Caledonia ( 486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412) , Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calaveras (78) , San Andreas.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233) , Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Carmel (680) , Carmel.
Capital City ( 499) , Sacramento.

Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (410) , Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley ( 427) , Chino.
Chowchilla ( 485), Chowchilla.

860

PROCEEDINGS OF Til;E

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citro! (656), Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482),
Los Angeles:
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake. ·
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Concord (117),. Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.

Colusa (240), Colusa.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Corbnado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Craftsmen (559);· Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
. Ci:ocker (454), Daly .City.
Crockett· (139), San· FrancisC:o.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stocktpn.
Dimond (603), Oakland. ·
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Dori<;: (216), San Fr_ancisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E .
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
East Gate (290); Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561),
East San Diego.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), ~an Francisco.
Eel Riv.er (147), Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
· Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
Evening Star (186), Etna Mills.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

F
Fairfax (556), Fairfax.
Fairview (629), Inglewood.
Fairmount ( 435), San Fr·ancisco.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco.
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale "(193), Ferndale.
Fidelity' (120), San Franc:isco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649),. Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.

Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.
Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland. ·
Fortitude (U.D.), Chungking, China·
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Francis Drake '.(376), South
San: ·Frandsco~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

861

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
FriendshiJ? (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Fraternity (39,), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.

G '
Golden Rule ( 479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West ( 455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel ~ange (59), Camptonvillc.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza ( 492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassel! Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora. ·
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.

H
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H .
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Huntington Beach (380),
· Huntington Beach.

Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hanford (279), Hanford. •
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H .
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Henry Morse Stephens (541),
Berkeley.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.

I
Indian Rock (638), B'erkeley.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.

Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.

J
James A. Foshay (641),
Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield (566),
Los Angeles.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Jan es ville (232), Janesville.
·
Jewel (374), San Francisco. .

John D. _Spreckels (657), San Diego.
John Marshall (636),
West Hollywood.
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.

862

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.

Justice (549), San Francisco.

•

K
Kauai (589, Lihue, T . H.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keyst~ne (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H .
King David's (209),
San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260),
San Francisco.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Lancaster ( 437), Lancaster.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Lankershim (542),
North Hollywood.
La Puente (446), Puente.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Las Palmas (366) , Fresno.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lebanon ( 495), San Francisco.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Honolulu, T. H.

Lexington (104), El Monte .
Liberal Arts (677),
West Los Angeles.
Libertas ( 466), Bakersfield.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Lincoln ( 470), San Francisco.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lodi (25"6), Lodi.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles,
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood~

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
. Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, T . H.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Mc Cloud ( 430), Mc Cloud.
McKinley (347), Richmond . .
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Menorah (623) , Los A_ngeles.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.

Meridian (667), Glendale.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Midway (426), Taft .
Military Service (570),
San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach,
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hi11.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.

Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Mountain View (194),
Mountain View.
Mount Davidson (481),
San Francisco.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.

863

Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.

Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
. North Butte (230), Gridley.
North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Ojai (663), Ujai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.

Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Fran'.:isco.
Orland (26.5), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Patms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (34p), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland,
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere ( 462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.

·Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma ( 180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353) , Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558) , San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Porterville (303) , Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

864

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto.
Richmond (375), San Francisco.

865

T
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397),
Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverb<ink.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Wfods,or.

Torrance (447) , Torrance.
Traver (294) , Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684) , Trona.
Truckee (200) , Truckee.
Truth (628) , Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian ( 439) , Manteca.

Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313) , Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple C::ity (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista;
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478) , Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.

s

Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Sierra. Madre ( 408), Sierra Madre.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
San Bernardino (348),
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
San Bernardino.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Silver Trowel (415), Los Angeles.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
. Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
San Gprgonio (668),. Banning.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Los Angeles.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
San Mateo (226) , San Mateo.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
South Pasadena (367),
San Pasqual ( 452), Pasadena.
South Pasadena.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
South San Francisco (212)
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
San Francisco.
· '
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
South West (;!83), National City.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Speranza Italiana (219),
. Santa Lucia (302), Kings City.
San Francisco_,
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Standard ( 44G), Oakland.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
·Starr King ( 344), San Francisco.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Stockton ( 498), Stockton.
San S imeon (196), Cambria.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Schofield ( 443), Schofield Barracks,
T.H.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaport (550) , San Francisco.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Security (581) , Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.

u
'Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia ( 537), Los Angeles.

Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394) , Los Angeles.

v
Vermont Square (515) , Los Angeles.
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville ( 634), Victorville.
V ictory (474), San Fra ncisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano ( 56), Volcano.

Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Vallee de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135) , Linden.
Valley Forge (587) , Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
V eritas ( 640), San Francisco.

w
W estwood (501) , Westwood.
White Pine (555), W eed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

Warren G. Harding (579),
North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Waucoba (413) , Big Pine.
Welcome (255) , Lemoore.
West Adams (565) , Los Angeles.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335) , Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373),
West Los Angeles.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

I

York (423), Los Angeles.
Y osemite (99) , Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

866

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
CORRESPONDENCE

May Chance and Deity make firm
The shutters of our house, and keep alive
Upon our hearth . the flame of brotherhood."
HENRY C. CLA"USEN, Chairman
ROBERT W. DAVIES,

To the Most W orshipf1{l Grand Lodge of. California:
The Report of the Correspondence Committee is being written this
year from Washington, D. C., where your chairman is presently stationed.
The assembling of important and readable items of interest culled from
the various Grand Lodge jurisdictions, has been made possibl~ by the help
of all members of the Committee. It is .hoped the brethren will pe charitable and patient in their opinion until the return of normalcy will assure
the type of review which is most desirable.

FREDERICK

In continental United States the Masonic Lodges and Masons, each in
their own and perhaps individual way, are contributing much to the welfare of our craft in the armed services. The problem as to how such help
should be given has been solved in a uniformly intelligent manner. The
over-all outlook from this vantage point bids fair to present a picture of
which we can be proud.
But against this background the leaders of our craft should now .pose
the critical question: And when the war is over, what then? The returning men will have been taught to fight or die. They will not be content
to lapse into mediocrity. They will ha~e learned the active, the realistic
life, the habit of doing things. They will have a new criterion with which
to measure "the same old routine." They will be in search of a new
code of life. Horace Mann wisely said, "One might as well ~ttempt to
steer his boat without a rudder as to live his life without a Code of
Living."
Here then, is a thought for those on the higher watchtowers of
Masonry to ponder: How to assure that the Masonic way of life will
prevail, a code which comes out of the experience of the centuries, rich in
moral and spiritual values.
One thing is certain: We who are 'away will be glad to return to
our homes, to greet our old co-laborers in the Masonic quarries, to pass
from · the field of war int~ our own temples of Masonic meditation. Perhaps, therefore, the Report for this year should be closed with this
significant prayer by Jam es A. Quincy :
"In this made hour,
When nations, petulant as children in the night,
Cry down appeal to reason, and resort
To arms; when men and ships
Come home to us from all the seven seas
As blood stained doves returning t~ the ark-

0. EATON,

FRANK HOBERG,
OSCAR' OLSON,
HARRY M. p ARKER,
CHARLES L. PIODA,

Committee.

SUBJECTS REVIEW~D ·

If we were to select from the combined consensus of Masonic reviews

the most significant sign. of interest, it would be one of optimism as to the
outcome of the war. The news is encouraging~ Emphasis is on post war
plans, although we expect a hard and crucial period of fighting.

867

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cornerstones ............'.................... 879
Coordinate Masonry ..................878
Correspondence Reports ............908
Cyphers ..........................................880
De Molay ....................................:.883
Fiftv-Year Buttons ....................881
For~ign Masonry ---------·-·············883
Good and Welfare .......... :.............904
Grand Lecturers -----~---····-------·--···886
Grand Masters ........................., ....867

Grand Orators ........................, ...877
Historical ..................... :.............~~-&$?
Masonic Education .................... 887
Masonic Homes .............. ,...........891
Membership .. :...... :...................... -894
Patriotism ......... :.............................896
Relief ............................... t •• --•···-····910
War Activities .......... :...................898
War Relief ..... :...............................902
Washington Memorial ..........·.... 897

GRAND MASTERS
After a man has served his brethren as Grand Master of Masons in:
his state and on the eve of the annual communication writes his message
to the craft, born in sincerity and humiliation, there is issued an inspired
document. Even though the subjects are seemingly specific to his par'ticular jurisdiction, invariably the recommendations are common to air
humanity, and all the brethren, whithersoever dispersed, can learn much
and profit by their perusal.
Georgia, 1942 (Proceedings):
Yes, my brethren, we must carry our Masonry into our homes to
strengthen this citadel of civilization and safeguard it against the laxities
and unwholesome influences that always follow in the wake of economic,
social and political upheavals.·
From these homes have 'come the boys who are fighting and dying
to preserve our way of life. Unless we can maintain our American concept
of the home, their victories will be robberi of much of their glory. The
terrible experiences through which they are passing are giving them a
better understanding of spiritual values and a greater reliance upon a
Supreme Being. Reports trickling back from the fighting front solemnly
said: "'there were no atheists in the foxholes ... of Bataan."
We must carry our Masonry into our religious activities to make our
churches a more virile force in the spiritual life of the community; to
bulwark our communities against the moral let-down and disregard for
law that followed our last great war.
We must carry our Masonry into our business to bring harmony
between employer and employee so that the production and flow of es-

869

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI.FORNIA

sential war materials may continue uninterruptedly. We must take it into
our business to end sharp practices which too often prevail in our commercial dealings.

qualifications assumed in that day has evaporated in the subsequent emphasis placed on internal qualiflcations by our philosophy. A slight defe~t
under present interpretation of our law, may close the door of fellowship
to a man of the highest possible character and integrity, perhaps one a
leader in civil life, · whose contribution to Freemasonry might be incalculable. Nothing : could be more repugnant to the fundamentals of our
institution.
"Nor can this travesty be justified by the provision that the Grand
Master has the power to issue a dispensation permitting the initiation of
one under a physical handicap. Common justice and ordinary fairness
dictate that this theory of quality be affirmed or rejected as part of our
law, and not foisted, at considerable private sacrifice 'and expense in int.erviewing hundreds of applicants, upon the individual you honor by e1evation
to the exalted office of Grand Master.

868

We must carry our Masonry into our civic affairs to insure a higher
type· -of leadership in public office and keep a firm foundation under our
governmental structures. We need only to act as our conscience dictates
and not be influenced by prejudice and selfish interests.
Illinois, 1942 (Proceedings):
Because the ideals which it has embraced throughout the ages, and the
democratic form of government with which it has been coincident and
under· which it has flourished during that time, have peen the object .of
attack by savage and treacherous, yet withal, determined and powerful,
foes, all other events in our present day lives pale into insignificance
when compared with the events following the wilful and wanton attack on
Pearl Harbor. This country, and its allies, are engaged in a titanic
struggle to determine whether peoples are created to serve governments,
or, as we would have it, governments are created to serve peoples. This
war is waged against the democratic form of living, and in such a struggle,
involving an attack on its fundamental philosophy, Freemasonry itselt is
attacked. Modern eve.nts prove that this is not a figure of speech. As
the · dictators have invaded smaller and less resistant nations, many of
whom embraced the . doctrines of Freemasonry, our fraternity has been
scourged, its altars razed, its properties confiscated, its · members persecuted, and its leaders doomed. Never in the history of the world, not excepting 1828-32 when it became the butt of political campaigns, has our
institution been more the object of the concentrated fury of its enemies.
Since the inception of the Government of the United States, Freemasons have been concomitant with the success of this Republic. Across
the horizon of the ages march a galaxy of distinguished Americans who
were true Masons. That picture has not changed in this struggle. Lead
by the indomitable MacArthur, our fraternity is again offering to the
Nation which nourished it, a full measure of devotion.
Maine, 1943 (Proceedings):
At meetings beyond the state which I have attended, and in Masonic
writings which have come to my notice, I sense a trend of thought which
will undoubtedly crystallize into action within the next few years. I refer
to the generally accepted standards of physical qualifications required for
membership in the fraternity now in effect ~n the several Grand Jurisdictions of the United States. These qualifications, generally stated, are that
"every candidate applying for the degr ees in Masonry must . . . possess
. . . no maim or defect in, his body that may render him incapable of
conforming to what the seve~al degrees respectively require of him."
While our Grand Lodge Constitution does not use identical language, it
conveys practically the same meaning. One Grand Master, speaking on
this subject, says :
"Nothing in our constitutions so thoroughly indicates the antiquity
of our fraternity a s this law, which h earkens back to the Middle Ages,
when physical fitness had some justification in the regulations and administration of the operative Guilds of England, considered by many
the cornerstone of present Freemasonry. Whatever importance external

"Finally, and, in my humble opinion, conclusively, the dreaded, hatef~l,
and dreary consequence of this gigantic military struggle, undou~ted.ly; ·will
be the return to this. State and Nation, of too many men, constitutmg the
very flower of our manhood and citizenry, and precisely within the ran.ge
of age from which Freemasonry should draw its future enrollments, with
physical defects incurred in the defense of this democracy.
"Are we going to cheer their return, and pay homage to their courage
and stamina which kept this country safe for us, and then slam the doors
of our lodges in their faces, because their heroic defense ~f us brought
them the sacrifice of some physical member? Are we gomg to say to
these heroes 'You were good enough to protect me and mine, but you
are not ·fit to be ·a Mason because in that defense you lost an arm, or a
leg, or your sight?' Are we going to say to them and to the world at
large that the bonds of fraternity and r ecognition between Master Masons
is physical and not mental? Or are we going to. practice our c.reed, and
search a man's soul, and nothing else, to ascertain whether he is worthy
to be our brother!
"I submit, that to automatically eliminate an applicant from membership because of physical disqualification unassociated· with his mental,
moral and spiritual worth, is unworthy of an institution 'more ancient than
the Golden Fleece or Roman Eagle, more honorable than the ~tar and
Garter or any other order that can be conferred upon you at this or
any future period by prince, potentate, or any other person except he be a
Mason.' And I give it to you strictly in charge that the eyes of an otherwise friendly world gaze upon us with growing distrust because of such
a peurile and illogical fixation. Let us turn our backs on t~e darkness of
the past, and face a glorious future unashamed and unafraid. Abov.e all,
let us not confuse precedent with justice. Let us, rather, have the simple
courage to do what is right. May moral qualifications, alone and forever,
be the open sesame to the treasure house of Freemasonry!"
The foregoing has been presented ·solely as food for thought and as
matter for reflection, because the trend in this direction is growing ~ver
stronger, and may in the future come before this Grand Lodge· for serious
consideration.

870

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Manitoba, 1942 (Proceedings):
There is today in some of our lodges a great force of enthusiastic en·
deavor, but there is in some of our lodges a lamentable amount of apathetic
i.nefficiency. I am reminded of the story in the 25th Chapter of St.
Matthew's gospel when I get around to the various places on my visits
-the story of the talents, and I think. we probably over-emphasize the
men who received the five talents and the two talents, and we forget altogether the man who just received the one talent because he is the
character we do not like very much. I ask you to consider the man of one
talent tonight because he is much akin to many of us; for there is a man
who had an opportunity to do a job, there is a man who was given something to do, there is a man who refused to do his task; there is · a man
who lapsed into inefficiency, into respectability, who s·a id "Everything will
get along all right whether I do this job or not." He didn't do it and
he became one of the crowd of inefficient people who clutter up the work
of such a great fraternity as ours. He refused the conditions of successful
effort which seems to be too hard for us today. This man declined the
constant and persevering ventures of faith. To refuse to do our job in
the lodge is to forfeit the right to call God our Father. To say that what
is required of us is too hard for us, is too much for. us ; to say that we
have been given so little and we have been asked for so much, is to
acquiesce in inefficiency. To do such a thing as that is to be content with
respectability. The one talent man, I suggest to you tonight, was cast
out into darkness not because he didn't have opportunity but because he
preferred to be respectable, to be at his ease, and to get away with as
little as he could possibly do.
We need not remind you that Masonry, in many countries of the
world, has come under the ban of the totalitarian powers. What is the
offense committed by this noble fraternity, that it should be summarily
abolished? It is largely because of its ideals of education, of · right and
honorable living, and of democracy. Freemasonry has built its program
u~on the foundation rock of truth, justice, tolerance, understanding, goodwill and brotherly love. True enough it is, that if these principles were
made the dynamic of the relationship between men and nations, there
would, indeed, be "peace on earth and goodwill towards all men." The
mission of Masonry is still, and has always been, the building of the ideal
human temple.
·
The design of Freemasonry is not a destructive force. It is always
constructive and progressive. We are builders, and to that program
Masons are committed by voluntary choice and solemn obligation. We
stand foi: peace and progress. War and progress are incompatible, and
so as Masons, we can never accept war as an effective instrument nor as
the ultimate in carrying out the Masonic design. War will fail to achieve
the ends we have in view. Dictators now, as heretofore, may do their
worst, but the end of all their nefarious activities will result only in leaving
all their countries smaller and poorer.
Maryland, 1942 (Proceedings):
Immediately upon the declaration of war your Grand Master wrote
to the Governor of the State of Maryland and to the Mayor of Baltimore
City, in charge of the war activities in their respective jurisdictions, and
assured them of the wholehearted support of the craft and its anxiety and
desire to be of service wherever possible.
An order was also issued at once, directing the Masters of all Lodges
to make appropriate changes in the ceremonies by presenting the colors
at the altar, giving the Pledge of Allegiance and singing one verse of the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

871

National Anthem, where music is available, in ope~ing, and the singing of
America in the closing ceremony. A form of ritual or guide for this
ceremony was prepared and sent to all of the 'Lodges and instruction in
the proper manner of presenting the colors.
Montana, 1942 (Proceedings):
Peace and harmony have prevailed ; suspensions for non-payment of
dues have decreased, reinstatements have increased; the local lod~es g~n­
erally, but with few. exceptions ":re prosp~ring; lodge indebtedness is being
reduced, or entirely discharged in some instances.
We should during the trying and · difficult years to come, close .our
Masonic ranks and stand shoulder to shoulder in our fraternal relations
to each other and to the craft. Suspension for non-payment of dues should
be the exception rather than the rule. A close attention to current col~ec­
tion of dues to avoid amassing of delinquencies and consequent suspension,
sho1ild be given by the secretaries, and other ~ffi~ers, if necessary. ~n any
event, no suspension should be voted unless 1t 1s absolute.ly unav?1dable,
after full investigation and notice brought home to the delinquent in each
instance.
The list of the membership · suspended in years past for n~n-payme?t
of dues should be carefully studied and checked. It is poss1.b!e that in
this class may be found good Masonic timber.' merely waiting for . a
kindly word of a Masonic brother to apply for reinstatement ·and .to ag~in
become a part of our Masonic edifice. ~ urge very careful consideration
of this situation, to the end that worthy Masons, who through unfortu~ate
circumstances in the past, are laboring under th~ p~nalty of suspension,
may be restored to our Masonic ranks, to Masonic hfe and usefulness.
Nebraska, 1943 (Proceedings):
Masonry is again on the march. Th~ attacks on Fre~masonry by the
Dictators, and the suppression of Masonic Lodge~ a~ their first act when
ruthlessly overrunning a country, have caused thinking people to form a
favorable opinion of this great Institution. Only so long as Freemasonry
continues to merit the hatred of t~ose who~e lu~t . ~or .power seeks to
destroy it, will it be a vital power in advancing c1v1hzatlon.
The implacable foes of Democracy are the fo~s of Freemasonr~, and
their goal is the extermination of both. But their efforts shall fail and
the Light of Freemasonry will burn brighter than ever before. Out of
this holocaust of war will emerge many heroes, and Masonry as ever in
the past will be well represented.
A glorious future lies ahead f?r Freemasonry if we will but meet
our problems with courage and faith. Fears shall not be in the way if
we will remember our Creator.
New Jersey, 1942 (Proceedings):
Brethren--If we are to' return here in 1952 it will be neces~ary to
justify our existence today and in the tomorrows. Freem~sonry in 1942
stands at a cross road. To the left is the road down which h~ve gone
all but two of the Grand Lodges of Continental Europe~Sw1tzerland
and Sweden. It can't ftappen here, do I hear you say? Fn:e y~ars ago
they were saying it couldn't happen there. But happen. 1t did. And
h pen here it may-unless you, we, reconsecrate and rededicate ourselves
t~pthe basic principles upon which this fraternity wa~ founde~. Today,
as always, it is impossible to expect a h~ppy imm?rtahty by being a real
Mason this Thursday and a Judas Iscariot on Friday.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

What are the principles to which we ought now to rededicate, to reconsecrate. ourselves? They are as old as Freemasonry itself. They arc
found m the charge to the Entered · Appr.e ntice candidate. "There arc
three great duties which, as a Mason, you a.re charged to inculcate-to
G?d, to ~our n.eighbor, and to yourself." They are repeated, for emphasis,
with a smgle important addition, in the obligation of each of the three
degrees wherein we are told there in nothing contained therein which will
conflict with the duties you owe to God, your country, your neighbor or
yourself. Along that path is the road to the right.
The duty you owe to God-The Mason who forgets. God in his daily
life faces extinction as a man. He. is bound for hell and is dragging the
fraternity then;: with him. Such a man is no better than our Axis enemies
who are the lowest form of men of which I can conceive. Faith in and
allegiance to God is the only Salvation for Masons as .it is for souls. Let
us here, now, return to a God-like life H we would save America; save
Freemasonry.
·
The duty you owe to country-It is second only to God. Ameri~a's
perils are almost as great from within as from without. Last night I
saw a revelation. This morning it seems almost like a dream, yet I know
'tis true.. I saw the. spirit of Freemas<;mry in action, alive, throbbing with
power, with love, with the humanness of which R. W. Brother Lathwood,
Pennsylvania's Grand Master, spoke yes.terd;i.y. I saw it in our Masonic
Temple, in t~e real job being done by The Ma?onic Service Association
for our boys in the Armed Forces. Masonry was justifying itself there
as it did its part to make happier the lot of Amedca's boys in uniform'.
There I saw 250 boys in The Masonic Servi<;e Association Center as our
guests. There I saw Masonry doing duty to eountry in that service. I
spoke to 62 of them in separate conversations and from 62 lips came the .
same expression. "This is great, this is tops. It is wonderful. Almost
I think I'm home again."

Intelligent interest in the fraternity must start with a familiar knowledge of our Ritual. We have all heard the man who objects to the
repetition of the Ritual as a deadly monotony. I suppose the Lord's
Prayer might be droned to monotony, but in moments of agony and need
what reality is revealed in the words "Our Father!" When men first read
the Declaration of Independence they thrilled at the words ·as revealing
a new concept of human rights and the function of government. For a
century and a half thereafter we accepted as our rights the enjoyment
of the great principles which those words disclose. The words cooled
in our ears because our lives were lived without contradiction of their
meaning. Then came Poland and Czechoslovakia and Holland and Belgium
and France and Denmark and Norway and Yugoslavia and Greece and
Dunkirk and Pearl Harbor, and again the words leap to life: "Men are
endowed by their. Creator with certain inalienable rights; * * * that to
secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving
their just powers from the consent of the governed." Words again became
vital because they revealed the only reality which really counted, hecause
they were a revelation of the soql of America and the aspiratipn of all
men who strive for human liberty.
The ideals of human integrity and of human brotherhood which our
Ritual exemplifies are today principles for which men and nations are
prepared to make the utmost sacrifice. The other day I received an elo. quent letter in which a brother said that he wished the four walls of our
Lodge rooms would fall down and reveal to the eyes and ears of the
world the Ritual and the teachings of our fraternity, that the influences
of the Lodge room might extend to all mankind for the perpetuation of
those principles which are basic in our civilization. For such is the fidelity
of our precepts and of our Ritual that they underlie the expression of
the democratic principles. These are realities for which men can live and ·
die; these are the realities by which Masonry must live: Let us repeat
and repeat the words so that they may become the familiar com.p anions
of our lives, and then indeed shall there be intelligent interest and understanding of the purpose and the meaning of our fraternity.

872

• New York, 1942 (Proceedings):
] ust fifteen years ago M. W. Harold ] . Richardson in this place delivered as Grand Master a memorable address in which he electrified the
Grand Lodge with the following words:
.
Freemasonry is a life to be lived, not a formality to be per:
functorily observed. It is a life to be lived, not a set of empty
creeds to which lip service is given. It is a life grounded in religion
organized in morality, mellowed by good fellowship, humanized i~
charity, and dedicated to servic~.
And as we assemble today to enter upon the deliberations · of this
161st Annual Communication, set against a background of a world at
war, as' never before needing in our own Country a complete unity of
all our people, we cannot do better than meditate upon the closing portions
of the address from which quotation has already been made:
The only problem to require our sagest experience, our ripest
statesmanship, is the problem, How is Masonry to do its proper
work in the world? There is, I am convinced, a large work for it in
our nation. The signs of the time show the possibility of dangerous
divisions being opened up across American life, resulting in class
being set against class, in religious conflict, an increase of racial
prejµdice, and an increasing cynicism as regards our Con's titution,
our form of national government, and the ideals bequeathed to us
by the fathers. It is Masonry's work to support and to inspire the
forces that make for 11nity, and that. bind men closer to men, and
that bridge over the differences that , lead to h'.ltred and strife.

873

North Carolina, 1942 (Proceedings):
I have declined to permit balloting on petitions except at regular communications and have declined to shorten the time specified in the code
necessary to elapse b'efore petitions shall be balloted upon, in each instance
referring to that part of the code involved or quoting directly therefrom.
I have declined to let down the bars requiring twelve months' residence .
in the State of North Carolina before one could petition our subordinate
Lodges-this referring to the i:nen in the Armed Forces stationed in our
camps-strictly adhering to the code and believing that the best interests
of Masonry would be served by so doing, referring the questioner to the
specific portion of the code involved therein.
I have declined to permit Lodges to meet in regular stated communications except at the hour specified in their by-laws.
We feel that our duty to our brothers in uniform was properly expressed by Past Grand Master Harkins in his address last year. We
feel that our duty to our brethren in our Armed Fdrces should be performed in accordance with Masonic custom. We believe that tae dignity
and prestige of the fraternity is best upheld by confining our work to the
Lodges, in the Lodges and under direct super vision of the local Masonic
officers. We feel, also, that it 'is the duty of our brethren in uniform and
in the camps to make themselves known to the members of the Lodges
near the camps whenever possible.

874

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Prince Edward Island, 1942 (Proceedings):
The Masonic craft, like every other institution among us, has felt the
impact of the war. In some cases, as has been mentioned, it has been
necessary to speed the conferring of degrees in order that candidates In
the services might be raised before being sent away with their units. Our
Lodges have been delighted to welcome sailors, soldiers and airmen from
other places as visiting brethren. Some· members of the forces from
abroad, having sojourned amongst us for the required time, have been
elected to receive our mysteries and become members of our Lodgee.
Many of our brethren have enlisted in the armed forces and ar.e on active
service in Canada or overseas.
The men of the Canadian navy, army and air force are writing as
brilliant a page in Canadian annals as did their predecessors in World
War I.
·
But this is total war. The civil population have their duty to do, their
sacrifices to make, even as the armed forces. It is the duty of all of us,
whether Masons. or non-Masons, v.hether in uniform or in mufti, to wage
this war. Let us civilians with fortitude and cheerfulness bear our burdens
of taxation, obey the regulations of our Government, cooperate in every
war effort, and dedicate our resources and our energies, as the· men in
uniform are dedicating their lives, to the winning of the ·war. Loyalty in
this crisis is the supreme virtue~loyalty to our men in arms, loyalty to
· this good country we call home, loyalty to our noble King. Struggle
and bitter · sorrow lie before us, but fortitude and faith will sustain us
to the end, and glorious peace will be our reward.
But though the war must for the present be our chief preoccupation,
it is not the only menace to our welfare.
My brethrtn, we are living in a terrible age. Gr~at nations have passed
under the rule of dictators whereby the rights and dignity of the individual
man are set at naught. In all countries there seem to be a weakening of
moral restraint, a loss of reverence for those things which from of old
were held sacred, confusion of thought, bewildered groping amongst conflicting ideals and contrary views of life's purposes; and now the war,
with its bitter enmities, its destruction, sorrow and privation, its agonies
of pain and its terrific harvest of death. But amid the confusion and
horror of our distracted and stricken world, our Order stands for stability,
brotherhood, faith, and life. Here, the ancient landmarks stand. The
plumb, level and square abide, not only as the tests of behavior but as the
sanctions of man's worth and dignity. Human kindness stretches forth
a hand to aid and save a brother. From the Book upon our altars speak
the oracles of the eternal, and through faith in God all the energies and
interests of life are focused to a common purpose and a· common glory.
So all life is enriched and flourishes like the acacia sprig which had no
root in earth but still grew green because it was rooted in the unending
life.
Masonry has a great mission to our age. We are united in a splendid
work. The· contribution which each one makes to the common effort may
be small but not insignificant. The great end is to be achieved by practic-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

875 .

ing in our individual lives the principles inculcated in our Lodges and
by ~rawing ever closer the ties that bind us together in fellowship and
service.
\
South Carolina, 1943 (Proceedings):
Strive for a correct rendering of the work. Have rehearsals with thl
officers. Keep on trying to do the thing right. Every candidate has a
right to expect and to receive the degrees given in an effective and
helpful manner. It is not honest to content ourselves to fOnfer the
degrees in haphazard or slipshod manner.
.
Throw yours.e lves into this national emergency. Masonry cannot
afford to go less than "all out" for the winning of this war. Some people
have said and are saying that "this is not Masonry's war." I want to say
to you that if there was ever a war which was Masonry's, it is this one,
in my opinion. For it seems to me that Masonry has ev:erything at stake
in this war. Wherever our enemies have gone they have trampled Masonry
under foot; they have confiscated our property, persecuted our brethren,
banned our meetings and, in many instances executed our brethren for
no other crime than that of being Masons. So, it appears to me that
Masonry as an organized ·functioning power in the world has its very
life at stake in this conflict. Cooperate with all worthy local agencies in
their efforts .to strengthen and keep strong the home front. Support our
Government in every way possible. Don't spread rumors. While we wish
to insist upon the right of free speech we feel that this is no time for
too much criticism unless it is clear that it has some very constructive
purpose. Therefore, avoid undue criticism. Invest all the money you can
afford in war bonds and stamps. If your Lodges have money lying idle
put that into war bonds. Thus you will be helping your Government,
Masonry and yourselves in so doing. This is not only patriotic, it is simple
common sense and good business as well.
Tennessee, 1943 (Proceedings):
The Chairman of the Correspondence Committee of the 153rd annual
communication of the Grand Lodge of New Hampshire at Concord on
May 20th, 1942, in his report observes, "It is about time to cease blaming
undesirable material for Ciur heavy losses-to place the blame where it
belongs, squarely on our own shoulders-we failed to mold it (the newly
made brother) into the finished product."
I inquire of you, my brethren, if we do not too often stop with the
conferring of a degree, and thus fail in educating the newly made Mason
in the very meaning of the degrees; in the lessons the degrees seek to
inculcate, and thereby cause him to fail to obtain anything of practical
value in his everyday life.
In some mystic manner, I am unable to understand, a parrot can be
taught to speak words and sentences-to ask questions and answer
same. But who believes this bird understands the meaning o.f what it
utters.
The mind . of man has been permitted to conceive and develop the
phonograph which can ii:nitate his voice, quote his words, and sing his
songs, but who believes that this cold instrument knows the meaning of
the wqrd~ it utters or the beauty of the songs it sings?
, Are we of Freemasonry going to permit it to be said of us that we
have merely been taught words to mimic as the parrot, .or that sentences

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALH'ORNIA

and songs have been indented on our minds as in the phonograph, and yet
have not been impressed with the meaning of it all?

GRAND ORATORS

876

I believe in a uniform ritual and in a full and complete knowledge by
those who confer the degrees, but I also believe in teaching the initiatc:11
the real meaning of this ritual. This cannot be done by devoting ourselvea
alone to perfecting our ritualistic work.
I suggest that there be a broadening of our work of Masonic education
so that it may include the _whole scope of Masonry.
Washington, 1942 (Proceedings):
This Eighty-fifth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Washington brings forcefully to mind the. serious situatiop now facing our
government. Many of our Masters· and Wardens are in the service of
our Country; many of our sons and near kin are serving in the ranks.
We all have been affected by war-time restrictions and regulations. Every
good citizen has rallied to the support and preservation of our Country,
its institutions and our American way of life.
Notwithstanding, Freemasonry in Washington and Alaska continues
to carry on with undiminished activity. It has not faltered, nor are we
dismayed. For eighty-eight and one-half years, since the chartering of
Olympia Lddge, No. 1, it has not faltered. It has continued to be a vital
moral force in the lives of our people. For nearly eighty-four years the
Grand Lodge of Washington has continued the ·preservation of the Ancient
Landmarks and the precious traditions of our craft.
The hour has arrived for this Grand Lodge to resume its labor. The
craftsmen are in their places; the working tools have been committed to
th'eir care. I trust that rough ashlars will become perfect ashlars, and
that each stone placed in this structure _w ill be plumb, square and level.
Finally, my brethren, may each thought, word and action, spoken and
exercised here, be tried by the working tools of our profession, thereby
perpetuating, now and forever, this great structure of Freemasonry.
Isn't it strange that princes and kings
And clowns that caper in sawdµst rings
And common folks like you and me
Are builders for eternity?
To each is given a bag of tools,
A shapeless mass and a book of rules
And each must make, ere life is flown,
A stumbling-block or a stepping-stone.
Wyoming, 1942 (Proceedings):
We Masons have no greater m1ss1on to perform than to keep awake
the realization that freedom is not only for our generation, but for future
generations.
Freedom is not to be achieved and then forgotten; it must be preserved
and carefully guarded, and when we as a nation are no longer worthy of
the privileges which we have enjoyed, we will lose them. Our task lies
before us and we can-and I believe we will-fulfill the confidence which
has been reposed in us by the past generations.

877

From the Grand Orators we obtain many of the ideals which are later
whipped into practical form and often form the basis upon which much
constructive Masonic legisla'tion is enacted.
Oregon, 1942 (Proceedings):
The war has spread to five continents and five oceans. In magnitude
it is the most colossal war of all ages: The brilliant victories of Midway
Island and the Coral Sea are just samples of the final and complete
victory in store for the enemy and of the unified strength of free peoples.
The way may be long and difficult to achieve this triumph, and the sacrifice
will make the triumph enduring.
Bataan . . . Bataan.
Like the tramp of feet on the road to doom,
Like the bomber's roar . . . like the cannon's boom
Like the drums of death the words command
Men and women of every land
To Stop! To li_stenl ·T o understand!
To pulse our hearts to the weary beat .
Advance . . . retreat . . . advance . . retreat.
There is glory in such defeat
For each man gave the best he had,
Bearded veteran ... beardless lad
Gave of his strength, his hope his life,
For mother, brother, friend and wife.
Unknown heroes whose fame is sung
When "Bataan" is uttered by any tongue.
Take those banners from wounded hands
And carry the battle to stricken lands.
Work and sacrifice, hope and give.
That glorious word must forever live,
Symbol of courage. That splendid name
Should be stamped with blood and seared with fl.ame
On the heart of every woman and man.
Dare to forget it .. . if you can!
BATAAN.
-Don Blanding.
It is difficult to speak of these appalling and shameful atrocities before men who can have no better ambition than to be missionaries of the
Golden Rule, but the curse of the Dark Ages is upon the world and free
people everywhere are directly confronted with the necessity of using
force to supplement and sustain their faith. The heritage of America is
the heritage of Masonry-freedom and justice, the education and elevation
of the masses and opportunity for work, independence, respect for constituted authority, the right to religious freedom and worship. The persecution, imprisonment, and murder of Masons in Spain, Italy, Germany,
Austria, and France will not sta.m p out the ideals for which they stand,
but constitute mute evidence that Masonry does not traffic with tyranny.
The situation today is simply history repeating itself. Egypt, Persia,
Greece, Rome, nations great, exercising world dominion, losing a sense
of moral values, becoming soft and the subjects of decay;
The price of liberty is an ability to preserve it from destruction. I
have complete faith in American leadership, patriotism, ingenuity, facilities,
and manpower to meet the test. Whatever the cost of victory, the Ameri-

878

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

can people and their allies are prepared to pay it. War is never cheap,
but it is a thousand times cheaper to win than to lose. No sacrifice can
be too great for us to achieve final victory, and that victory will call for
the same type of daring, endurance, careful planning, and heroism displayed by the Oregon soldiers who defended Bataan and the Oregon
soldiers who bombed Tokyo.
Tasmania, 1942 (Proceedings):
Now, it has long been the custom on such an occasion as is this, to
dwell on the nature and purpose of our institution. What, then, is Freemasonry? In simple terms, it is a divinely constituted society of just, upright, and free men, bound together by a common allegiance to the one
true God, and united to uphold the principles of brotherly love, relief, and
truth. Its history shows that in all ages and among a-ll peoples, this belief
in the Fatherhood of God, and the Brotherhood of Man, has had a
strengthening yet refining influence. We know, too, that Freemasonry is
founded on the purest principles of piety and virtue. It stands four-square
on the cardinal virtues of Temperance, Fortitude, Prt\dence, and Justice.
COORDINATE MASONRY
Verges so closely on being a controversial subject that comment is, at
this time, withheld.
Kansas, 1943 (Committee):
The barnacles in the form of ·a ppendant organizations are ·again very
much to the front in the discussions, including criticism of all bodies, both
men and women, who predicate their membership upon .Masonic affiliation,
except the Chapter of Royal Arch Masons, the Council of Royal and
Select Master Masons, the Scottish Rite Bodies and the Knights Templar
among the men and the Order of the Eastern Star and the Social Order
of the Beauceant among the ladies. A recent estimate mak~ the number
of other organizations Claiming Masonry as a parent,· legitimate or otherwise, at 247. .
·
·
Minnesota, 1943 (Proceedings):
At 12:40 p. m., the Grand Lodge was called from labor to refreshment
until 1 :45 p. m.
The Grand Master, before calling off, requested that all remain in
their seats after closing. He then directed the Grand Marshal to go
without and escort Helen Wayne, Worthy Grand Matron, and Theodore
S. Anderson, Worthy Grand Patron, of -the Grand Chapter of the Order
of the Eastern Star of Minnesota, into the room. They were received and
introduced by the Grand Master, and the Grand Matron, in behalf of the
Eastern Star Chapters of the State, presented the Grand Lodge with a
check of $1,000.00 for the _Masonic Service Association Centers and stated
that in addition to this amount they had contributed $559.74 direct to the
Grand Secretary's office. The Grand Master expressed the appreciation
of the Grand 'Lodge to the Grand Matron for the check and for the
interest that the Eastern Star members were taking to assist in this
splendid work in behalf of our boys in the Service. The Grand Matron
then stated that. this was the project they had undertaken for the year and
that more money would be ~orthcoming.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

879

South Australia, 1942 (Proceedings):
The amity and goodwill existing in this territory between the three
Orders, Craft, Royal Arch and Mark Masonry, has been exemplified by
the latter two Orders voluntarily voting an extra £25 each to the office
services of Craft Masonry.
' Such an action is · deserving of acknowledgment, not only as a gesture
of appreciatio~, but as a record of the happy relationship existing in the
admini~tration of the three great Orders carried on side by side· in the
same office and by the same staff.

CORNERSTONES
From the very birth of the United States of Am~ri~a ~e laying ?f
cornerstones of public buildings has become a distinctive Masonic
ceremony; most jurisdictions have provided a ritualistic form of ceremony.
Kansas, 1943 (Grand Master):
One of the most important parts of our work is the conducting of
public ceremonies. The laying of cornerstones has a spedal significance
in the Order. During the past year it was my privilege to conduct two of
these ceremonies.
On May 15, 1942, I laid th~ cornerstone of the Indian Agency .Building at Horton. Participating in thtt ceremony were M.'. W.'. Elmer -F.
Strain Grand Secretary, and
Clarence G. Nevins, Chairman of the
Com~ittee on Reports of C:rand Officers. The oration was given by
Brother Harold E . Bruce, Superintendent of the Agency. In the evening
a Special Communication of Horton Lodge No. 326 was held in which
a good number of visitors from neighboring lodges pa.r ticipated and at
which the Grand Master spoke.

w:.

On April 28, 1942, with the assistance of Russell Lodge No. 177, I
opened a Special Communication of the Grand Lodge and laid the corner·stone of the City Hospital Building at Russell.
Maryland, 1942 (Proceedings):
Capitol of the United States of America, Septembe~ 18, 1 ?9~. The
cornerstone was laid in the southeast corner of the Capitol Bmldmg, on
the 18th day of September in the year 1793. The Commissioners-Tho~as
Johnson, David Stuart and Daniel Carroll-were. in charge of _the building and by their order the cornerstone of the Capitol of the United States
was laid with Masonic ceremonies.
The cornerstone was laid in place according to the Masonic rites by
His Excellency, George Washington, the President of the United States·
(a Master Ma~on), accompanied by Joseph Clark, _R. W . Gr~nd ~a~ter,
pro tern; James Hoban. and Stephen Hallate, architects; Collm W1lhamson (Master Mason) in concert with the Grand Lodge of Maryla~d,
several other Lodges in the Jurisdiction, and Lodge No. 22 of Alexandria,
Virginia. The outstanding incident of th~ ~ccasion lies in the fact that
the President of the United States, Americas noblest son, and most be-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

loved Mason, then and now, was Chief Craftsman in laying the foundation
stone of the Capitol of our Nation.

FIFTY-YEAR BUTTONS

880

All who attended to participate in the ceremonies were Masons with
the exception of.. Thomas Johnson, ex-Governor of Maryland and Stephen
Hallate, architect.
'
Washington Monument, July 4, 1815. The cornerstone of Washington
Monument was laid July 4, 1815.
A large congregation of Baltimore citizens assembled in Howard Park
(now Mt. Vernon Place), to witness the laying of the cornerstone of the
first monument dedicated to the "Father of His Country." The 'cornerstone was laid by His Excellency, Levin Winder, Governor of Maryland,
and Grand Master of Masons in Maryland, and Grand, Lodge Officers.
T?e procession assembled in the new Court House and proceeded to
the site of the cornerstone laying. In the line of procession were a number
of the Clergy, the President and members of the Society of the Cincinnat~ of Maryland, His. Excellency, the Governor of Maryland, and subordmate lodges of Baltimore, the Mayor and City Council Officers of the
Army and Navy, Major General R. G. Harper and aides'. and the Third
Brigade of Maryland Militia under the command of Brigadier General
Sterr et.
The cornerstone was laid by His Excellency, Levin Winder, Governor
of Maryland and Grand Master of Masons, assisted by Grand Lodge
Office.rs and William Steuart and Thomas Towson, operative Masons.
In this cornerstone was placed a copper plate upon which was engraved
"On the 4th day of July, A. D. 1815, was laid this foundation stone of a
monument to be erected to the Memory of George Washington."

CYPHERS
To use or not to use-that , is the question. Several years of receiving
Proceedings of the different jurisdictions would indicate that most states
believe the ancient landmarks are best preserved without graphic rituals.
Ohio, 194Z (Grand Master):
I. am convinced that there is a much better solution of this problem
than is offered by the amendment proposed at the last Grand Communication which provides for additional copies of our cypher Rituals for each
Lodge. There will be submitted later a proposal which I feel sure you
will agree offers a very definite improvement . and will give it your hearty
approval.
I submit this amendment, after considerable investigation and study
and in the full conviction that it will give a much more flexible and
complete solution to the problem of supplying Rituals for the purpose
of committing the work; furthermore, it provides what I feel sure is the
best possible solution of the more serious matter of the. increasing appearance and use of spurious rituals. \Vith this provision in effect there ·
can be no excuse whatever for using or possessing one of these unauthorized and incorrect cyphers commonly referred to as "Blue Books"
and it is recommended that our legislation relating ~o spurious rituals be
rigidly enforced following the adoption of this resolution.

881

The custom of recognizing the veterans in Masonry has become
well-nigh universal and their number is indeed a happy commentary upon
Masonry as an institution.
Kansas, 1943 (Grand Master):
During the past year eighty-seven fifty-year buttons have been presented to members who had completed a half century of service to the
Craft. Wherever possible I have made the presentation myself. It was
a pleasure to present two of th~se in my own lodge, to Brother Harry
F. Davis on April 1, 1942, and to Brother · Alexander Showalter on
October 26, 1942.
On June 4, 1942, it was my privilege to present a fifty-year gold button
to M. W . Wm. Easton Hutchison at Sublette, where fifty years before, when the country was new and our venerable brqther was a young
man embarking on what proved to be a distinguished career, he received
the deg;ees of Ancient Craft Masonry. On September 10, 1942, at Olathe,
I presented the fifty-year button to our distinguished brother, former
Governor George H. Hodges.
Minnesota, 1943 (Grand Master):
At the last Communication of this Grand Lodge authority was given
to provide a suitable "Fifty-Year Emblem" to be presented by the Grand
Lodge to each of our members who had been fifty years a Mason. No
appropriation, however, was provided in the budget. Considering the
legislation as a mandate, payment was authorized from the Emergency
Fund.
The committee charged with adopting the form of the award has, in
my opinion, chosen a very attractive lapel button.
At the outset we were confronted with the war emergency and resulting
metal shortages. Fortunately our manufacturer was able to procure the
necessary metal and after considerable d~lay the buttons were delivered.
A great many have been delivered to lodges and presented to the veteran
members entitled to them.
The legislation provided that presentation be made by the Grand
M.aster or his representative and a form of presentation ceremony was
drafted by the Board of Custodians. With the accumulation of fifty-year
members for the duration of OU\" existence as a Grand Lodge you readily
appreciate that no Grand Master could possibly personally present several
hundred awards in our two hundred and ninety-eight lodges. The matter
has involved an immense am~unt of correspondence in arranging for representatives to act for the Grand Master. I realize there have been disappointments that the Grand Master could not personally make each presentation, but know you will understand why I could not do so. It has been
a most pleasant function and nothing would have pleased me more.
South Australia, 1942 (Grand Master):
I am glad that the Board of General Purposes has instituted a form
of recognition of those brethren who have been associated for an un-

882

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

interrupted period of fifty years with Freemasonry. In November, 1939,
the lodges were cil'Cularized to the effect that it was intended. to establish
a Roll of Honor to include the names of Veteran Freemasons; and asking
for the cooperation of the members in compiling the list. · In response
to this invitation, thirteen names have been received, and I again want
to remind Secretaries to supplement this number if there are other brethren
entitled to have their names included.
The Board has decided to issue a suitable jewel to be presented to
those brethren who shall have served in this Jurisdiction iii' good standing
continuously for fifty years, and to other Freemasons as may 'b e approved
by the Board, whose service of continuous fifty years in good standing
may have been partly served in other Jurisdictions. It is hoped that all
arrangements may be completed to make the presentations at the next
Communication.
I pay tribute to these elder brethren whose long lives of active membership of over half a century, faithful to the principles and high ideals of
Freemasonry, inspire in all of us ennobling thoughts and higher aspirations. Apart from the historical value, there is a meritorious interest to be
fostered in preserving a record of these worthy brethren.
South Dakota, 1942 (Proceedings):
The Fifty-Year ,Mas'ons were invited to the East escorted by our
Senior Grand Deacon, welcomed .and given a heart; applause by the
Brethren.
Grand M aste_r Reynolds asked Brothers Roger S. Brown, Worshipful
Master of Unity Lodge No. 130; Marsden F. Bancroft, Junior Warden
of Minnehaha Lodge No. 5 and S. E. George, Past Master of Trinity
Lodge No., 200, all of Sioux Falls, to present Past Grand Master Marshall
R. Brown at the altar. He was introduced by his son, Roger S. Brown,
welcomed and escorted to the East. After a pleasing and most remarkable
address, Grand Master Reynolds presented him with a fifty-year medal
as a gift from the Grand Lodge, emphasizing the fact that Thomas A.
Brown, his father, was the first Grand Master of Dakota Territory at
the Grand Lodge session held at Vermillion in 1875 and that he was
Grand Master in 1915, and at this time, h~ was presented by his son, being
the third generation of Browns to serve the craft well and good since its
first special dispensation from our Mother Lodge of Iowa. Brother Brown
responded in his -usual fine manner, saying he was most grateful for this
gift from. the Grand Lodge of South Dakota.
Quebec, 1942 (Proceedings):
. The hour of 4 :00 p. m. having arrived, the Grand Master in felicitous
terms presented V:. W:. Brother E. F. Kirkwood, Brother F. C. Denison, Brother B. A. York, and Brother J. W: Smelzer with their fifty-year
medals and co.ngratulated them on their many years bf usefulness to the
Craft. Other of these brethren unable to be present have received, or will
receive, their·· medals in their own lodges. .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

883

DE MOLAY
Iµ view of the steadily increasing record of juvenile delinquency, as'
recited by the daily papers, encouragement of this order by the craft
might be a splendid . manner of setting an example to the general public.

Delaware, 1942 (Grand Master):
Upon the revival of Evergreen Chapter of DeMolay, I had the pleasure
of witnessing the initiation o'f a number of young men into that Organization. I was especially impressed with the lessons taught by the Ritual,
in respect ai:id obedience to co_n stituted authority. How effective the
teaching has been in the past few years in this excellent training school
for youth is well illustrated by the number of officers in our Subordinate
Lodges who were formerly members of the DeMolay.
Speaking as a teacher, I would welcome the time when all high school
students would be members of some Boy Scout organizat_ion, wit!) the_
DeMolay taking over where the Boy . Scouts leave ·off... .I believe it would_
be a happy day for state and nation.
Oregon, 1942 (Grand Master):
Some progress -has been made this . year toward aw~kening the Craft
to its opportunity of accomplishing some benefit for our boys and young
men, through sponsorship and intelligent supervision of chapters of the
Order of DeMolay. Most WorshipfUl Past Grand Master, William J. Kerr,
who has De Molay very much at hear't, will undoubtedly have something
to present along this line during this Communication. I bespeak for him
your sympathetic -consideration.
Not to every man is it given to be a born teacher of young men or
boys. I think that those fortunate ones who are such born teachers have
not only wisdom, great patience, and profound sympathy with youth, but
moreover, and most particularly, they retain a clear memory of their own
youth, its problems, its unuttered longings and aspirations, its temptations,
its carefully guarded sensitiveness, its bashfulness, its fear of ridicule by
its fellows, its dumb hero-worship-in a word, its entirely lovable boyishness! A boy's mind is like a "wonderful hidden garden, and " the thoughts
of youth are long, long thoughts."
FOREIGN MASONRY
The ruthless hand of ignorance and the devastations of war have laid
waste and destroyed many valuable monuments of antiquity...• Masonry
:has not escaped the unsparing ravages of barbarous force . • . but notwithstanding has still survived. And will continue to survive.
Manitoba, 1941 (Correspondence Chairman):
During the past hundred and fifty years, Masonry has not been countenanced in Russia, and the former Russian provinces of Latvia, L ithuania
and · Estonia, now under Russian influence.
In Hungary, another dictator country, Freemasonry w as abolished
some fifteen years ago on the excuse that some of the Lodges had been
active politically. The fine Grand Lodge building in Budapest was converted into a Labor Temple.

884

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In Turkey, Freemasonry was suppressed five or six years ago by the
late Kernel Ataturk, and no Masonic organizations exi~t there of which
we have any knowledge.
In Italy, both the Grand Orient of Italy and the Grand Lodge of
Italy were dissolved by Mussolini, with ruthlessness. A number of distinguished brethren were murdered in cold blood for no reason except their
connection with the Order. The Grand Master of the Grand Lodge was
exiled, became blind, and later died in prison.
In the recently seized Kingdom of Albania, Masonry has never been
organized, and of course does not exist under Italian rule.
In Spain also Freemasonry has been suppressed by Dictator Franco.
During the civil war there was much testimony to the effect that when·
ever the insurgents occupied a town they shot or murdered in the most
diabolical way, all Masons whom they could identify; and even those
related to them. Masonry was classed along' with communism and all
its property confiscated. Members of the Order were required to file a
statement with · the government within two months, explaining why they
joined the Order and why they left it. If their excuse was not acceptable
to the government, they were made liable to six years imprisonment, or
twelve years if they had received higher degrees, or held a position of
special trust, or attended international meetings.
In Germany, where Masonry once flourished under seven Grand
Lodges, Hitler ordered the dissolution of all Masonic Lodges shortly
after he came into power in 1934. Some of these bodies tried to continue
their existence under other names, but they were compelled to dissolve
and all properties were confiscated.
·
Turning now to the rest of Europe, we find that in Austria, whose.
Grand Lodge of Vienna was fraternally recognized by us, the Germans
seized the Headquarters on the first day of their occupation, placed the
Grand Master in an ·internment camp, where he died as the result of an
operation, and confiscated all property and effects belonging to the Order.

other r~gular Grand Lodges. While isolated by reason of the German
occupation and because of religious reasons as well, this Grand __ Lodge
which faced a similar catastrophe, will undoubtedly some day regai!i its
freedom and be re-established.
In France, there are three· Grand Lodges, the Grand Orient of France,
the Grand Lodge of France and the National Grand Lodge of France and
its dependencies. The last was formed about 1918 and was sponsored by
,the Grand Lodge of England.
The· Grand Orient, because it has been active politically, has not been
considered regular and does not adhere to the fundamentals of Freemasonry, such as belief in God, the presence in the lodge of the V. s.. L.,
etc.· it has been involved in several unsavory scandals such as the Stav1sky
atialr. Against all three bodies there is considerable anti-Mason ic agitation, but the probability is that all three will survive and be stronger
when France has purged itself of the Hun influence.
Switzerland with its Grand Lodge Alpina, recognized by the Grand
Lodge, is a bright spot in European Masonry. Here strong anti-Masonic,
Fascist and Communistic action forced the government to take a referendum on the continuance of the institution. The scandalous charges
against the Order were completely answered by the Masonic authorities,
and the result of referendum was the emergence of the Order stronger
than ever Switzerland may go down in the maelstrom of the present
war, but Europe without Switzerland is not probable, and Masonry will
again flourish when the conflict is over.
In Greece, Bulgaria, Jugo-Slavia, and the Balkans the situation obscures
the light and we must await developments.

When Czecho-Slovakia was seized the two Grand Lodges voluntarily
agreed to dissolve; these were the Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia and
the Grand Lodge Lessing of the Three Rings.
In Denmark, with whose Grand Lodge-headed by the King as Grand
Master-we have enjoyed fraternal relations, we very much doubt whether
the. Grand Lodge of Denmark dare function as such during the present
German "protective occupation" so-called.
The same statement must be made respecting Norway and the Grand
Lodge of Norway, and respecting Holland and the Grand Lodge of
Nether lands. In spite of much insoleqt and annoying underground agitation before the occupation of these countries and outright opposition
since, we have no doubt that in Denmark, Norway and Holland, Masonry
will live again.
In Sweden, in spite of the fact that the King is Grand Master and
the Crown Prince and other members of the Royal family are officers of
the Grand Lodge, Masonry has had to face sharp and malicious antiMasonic influences.
In Finland, the small Grand Lodge of Finland has had a struggle for
an existence against communistic and Nazi attacks; · but here, too,· we
believe that when victory is achieved over the evil forces which seem
now to dominate the world, Masonry will be restored to favor.
In Belgium, the Grand Orient of Belgium, because c;>f its removal some
years ago of the Holy Bible from its altars, has cut itself off from all

885

Victoria, 1942. (Grand Master) :
In view of the prevailing conditions, many inqumes have been m~de
concerning the wearing of full evening dress by brethren attendmg
Lodges and in consultatio,p with the Members of the Board of General
Purpbsts an'd the "Grand ' Master Elect, I now make the following P ronouncement:
That the wearing of full evening dress at Lodge meetings be
optional, but when ordinary dress is worn it sh?uld, if possible, be
a dark suit and the Apron must be placed outside the coat.
I have 'to emphasize that it is only because of the exceptional
circumstances now existing that the dress is made optional. When
conditions become normal the customary evening dress will again be
required.
At Consecrations Dedications and Installations the Grand
Master or his repres~ntative, and the Grand Officers accompanying
him, will attend in full evening dress.
The wearing of gloves in subordinate Lodges is left to the discretion of the Master of each Lodge.
Four new Lodges have been constituted in various parts of the State.
The loss through deaths, resignations, and exclusions amounts to 2,418,
leaving a gain of 1,088 members, as compared with a gain of 462 members
in 1940.
You will notice the Pillars have been drap.ed, and you will observe
a mourning border has been placed around th~ Agend.a Paper, because
we desire to take this opportunity of remembermg officially the death of
His Royal Highness the Duke of Kent, by which our Empire in general,
and Freemasonry in particular, have suffered a very great loss. As you

886

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA.LIFORNIA

all know, His Royal Highness was Grand Master of the United Grand
Lodge of England, and I am now going to ask M. W. Brother W. J.
Byrne, Past Grand Master, who is the representative of the Grand Lodge
of England near this Grand Lodge to make mention of the death of His
Royal Highness the Duke of Kent.
·
He had for several years been an active and earnest Freemason, and
served many offices in the Order, including the following:
In 1933, Senior Grand Warden of the United Grand Lodge of England.
In 1934-39, Provincial Grand Master of Wiltshire.
In July, 1939, he was Installed as Grand Master of the United Grand
Lodge of England.
This historic Installation was performed by M. W. Brother His
Majesty the King.
At the commencement of the ceremony His Majesty . address~d the
Duke of Kent as follows:
"Most Worshipful Grand Master, it gives me great pleasure to come
here today to Instal you, my own Brother, as Grand Master of English
Freemasonry.
"As you know, except for one period of thirty years, a member of
our House has occupied the Throne of Grand Master for over a century
and· a half. For the past sixty-five years this Throne has been filled first
by our Grandfather, King Edward VII, and then by our Great Uncle, the
Duke of Connaught, who is beloved by men and Masons throughout the
world. During this period English Freemasonry has prospered in a remarkable manner. It will be no easy task for any Mason to follow in
their footsteps, but I have every c.onfidence that you will succeed in the
office to which you have been elected by your Brethren. ·
"This great and representative gathering of recognized Freemasons,
who have come from . all quarters of the globe to greet you on this occa- ·
sion, will indicate to you the support you may expect in the future. You
know that you have my good wishes, and as a Brother Mason, I shall
always follow with great interest your Rulership of the craft and the
progress of our Order."

HISTORICAL

GRAND LECTURERS
Reports. from the Grand Lecturers are finding their way in increasing
:numbers into the Proceedings. At present the following is typical, but<
· as they increase in number and scope we look for many instructive
suggestions.
District of 'Columbia, 1942 (Proceedings):
The ritualistic wor)c of our Lodges during the past year has been
affected by the wartime conditions, but on the whole there has been no
decline from the high standard of the past several years. Despite the
numerous vacancies resulting from the response of line officers to Our
Country's call to arms, the lodge work has been acceptably performed
with the assistance of the past masters and willing brethren from the
sidelines.
Attendance at the regular school of instruction continues large, although the average is somewhat lower than prior to the advent of war.
Some of the Lodges have suffered heavier loss of officers than others
and their attendance record has been affected correspondingly. Considei:a' tion of this factor and the unequal other handicaps resulted in suspension
of the report of proficiency rating and attendance record heretofore given
at the Grand Visitations.

887

So much store is set u:iion the facts of the antiquity of Masonry that
it is indeed gratifying to· learn from occasional mention in the Proceedings
that our brethren of today are preserving historical data which will be
of inestimable value to our brethren of future generations.
Delaware, 1942 (Proceedings):
At the request of Brother Earley W. Bridges, Librarian of Greensboro
Masonic Museum, Greensboro, North Carolina, the Grand Lodge was
opened by Most Worshipful Clarence A. Short, Grand Master, with a
Historic Gavel, made of poplar wood taken from the Guilford Court
House Battle Field near Greensboro; this was one of the decisive battles
of the Revolutionary War, and General Nathaniel Greene was in command.
This was the 38th Grand Lodge in which this gavel had been used in the
opening ceremonies.
On February 4, 1942, I received the following request from Lafayette
Lodge No. 14: In order that the Charter of the said Lodge, which is
115 years old and which has the signatures of Lafayette, his son and
secretary on it and desiring to prevent a great loss to Masonry and Lafayette Lodge if stolen or destroyed by fire or water that the said Lodge
be permitted to make a photostatic copy of the same for use in the Lodge
room. Also so that the Lodge Charter in order that it might be fully
preserved should be placed in a safe deposit box.
Decision: That the Lodge displaying the photostatic copy of the
original charter together with certificate of the person making the reproduction shall be considered as complying with the code requiring the
display of the Charter at meetings of the Lodge.

MASONIC EDUCATION
Committees, commissions, and boards have worked on this subject and
written voluminous reports. The agreement is unanimous that it is·
desired and needed, but-in what form?
Canada, 1942 (Grand Master):
Under the able chairmanship of R. W . Brother C. W. Robb, the
Committee on Masonic Education have continued to supervise and encourage this important part of our Masonic work. In many districts. and
lodges regular instruction is an accepted and acceptable part .of fre9uent
program and much of value is accomplished. There is, however, _in
some lodges a tendency to relax and to neglect this phase of Masonry.
Possibly in some lodges this is accentuated by the increasing number of ·
candidates, but yet it would seem that there is the very best opportunity
to inculcate Masonic lore and practise. In too many lodges it seems apparent from the monthly summonses that no attempt is being made to
continue this work by having the members prepare short interesting talks.
Frequently one hears the cry that the Mason, not an officer, is given
nothing to do. If there is merit in this contention then, surely, here is
a phase of . Masonic endeavor in which many should be asked and encouraged to take part.
If lodges find that for the moment their own members .are not ready or
are reluctant to prepare and deliver instructional addresses then at least

888

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

some effort should be expended to secure, preferably several times a year,
interesting speakers from nearby lodges and thus increase the interest
of their program. In so doing the willing Mason should not be overworked nor should lodges forget, as many frequently do, that travel
costs money and, while we fortunately have ·many enthusiastic talented
Masons who gladly give of their best and travel often many miles to
deliver Masonic addresses or conduct Masonic ceremonies, yet . it is
neither fair nor right that beyond the few occupying certain official positions those otherwise situated should not be reimbursed for their out-ofpocket traveling expenses.
Georgia, 1942 (Proceedings):
Every truly American institution must re-think its program in terms
of the national need. Our Lodges, our. schools, our· churches and our
homes have an unparalleled responsibility resting upon them. Our schools
are democracy's most distinctive institution; they must enlist "for the
duration and for the long future." Therefore, we should pronouncedly
dramatize the Bill of Rights a~d its significant meaning to the free and
untrammeled people of America.
We should also make our subordinate Lodge meetings tremendously
inviting, interesting and constructive. Our meetings should be objective
in their planning, program and procedure.
Suggestions-That the public school citizenship program be definitely
and decidedly emphasized.
That every Masonic Lodge hold a public &chool artd citizenship week
in its jurisdiction sometime during the spring. That this suggestion include not · only the high schools ..but also the elementary schools and
colleges.
That each Lodge prepare and keep a service flag on which to honor
the number of its members who are in the Armed Forces.
Maryland, 1942 · (Proceedings):
Masonry is said to be a speculative science; that is, one having to do
with ideas artd theories, rather than with facts. Its ideology forms the
basis for finer thinking and better living. But how many of us have progressed beyond the primary stage of our education in the basic concepts of
Masonry? How many of us have advanced· beyond the point which we
reached when we were raised? How much independent investigation have
we made by reading the works of Masonic masters? How much thinking
have we done as to the possibility of rounding out life's values by .the
application of Masonic ideals to our daily problems? Until we divert the
rich essence of the Masonic philosophy from library shelves into the
channels of everyday life, Masonry cannot hope to have the high place
among the contributing factors to human advancement which is its just
heritage.
With this object in mind it is my purpose to enlist the cooperation of
some of our outstanding Masonic students in this jurisdiction, in the establishment of a course of lectures or discussions upon the history of Masonry, its traditions, its landmarks, its basic philosophy and its application
to the problems of everyday life. It is my hope that such presentations
will commend themselves sufficiently to the thoughtful members of the
fraternity to warrant the establishment of such a feature as part of our
Masonic activities, standing side by side with the Schools of Instruction
and the Schools of Law, thus giving emphasis not only to the ritual and
the law, but also to the philosophy of Masonry as well.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

889

Minnesota, 1943 (Grand Master):
It is my conce9tion of the fundamental, underlying and everlasting
purpose of our institution to so firmly establish the light of Free Masonry
in the hearts and minds of those who subscribe to our Order that it will
illuminate the pathway of their lives to the highest possible peaks of
moral attainment. William Preston, to whom the craft is so much indebted, believed it to be the chief end of Masonry to instil wisdom and
convey knowledge. A wise man desires truth and seeks knowledge, not
in order to pose as a scholar or a learned man but in order that he may
live happily. Enlightenment is a thing every Mason stands pledged to
seek, and seek it he must if he is to be a Mason in fact as well as in
name. But truth must be sought for. It is not an entity lying outside
us, like a boulder on the path, but a living and changing thing, which
must evermore be possessed anew. For each one of us men the truth is a
word that is lost, and each of us must himself go in search of it.
Nebraska, 1943 (Grand Master):
The petitioner who knocks at the portals of Freemasonry possesses
li.t tle knowledge of what lies within. He may have observed the influence
of Masonry in the lives of other men. At some time he may have heard
that Freemasonry's mission in the world is the building of character in
men. If he has thought about it at all his conception of Freemasonry
probably is that it is a secret society, composed of men of character and
standing. But he really knows little or nothing about the basic ideals, the
essential principles or the significant teachings of our fraternity.
The new brother cannot become enthusiastic about Masonry until he
knows something· about it. The more a brother learns about Masonry the
more interested he will be, and it is only by showing our interest that
we can hope to interest a new brother. What is said of the needs of the
new brother may also be said of many who have been members for years.
Too frequently in the years gone by, and also in many lodges in this day,
the brother is conducted to a seat among the brethren immediately after
signing · the by-laws of the lodge, and that is the last he hears about
Masonry or Masonic instruction. Compliance with Section 66 of ' the law
is not sufficient to teach even the fundamentals of Masonry. True, the
lectures should inspire a brother to think for himself and to cultivate a
knowledge of the mystic art, but in the last analysis it is our interest
in him that must inspire the desire to know mort!' about the Brotherhood
of which he is now a part.
The true Mason labors to help his Order reach its noble ends. But
do we teach him what its noble ends are? If we fail to , do our duty by
providing proper Masonic instruction, we will have only ourselves to
blame if our new brother loses interest and drops out when the first
financial pinch comes.
Ev.e ry man carries his purse close to his heart. Only the things that
are first there freely untie the strings. As evidence of that go to any
football game, any baseball game, or to a sporting event of a~y k~nd
and observe the thousands who place such things first. Can you 1magme
any suspensions for non-payment of dues if Masonry occupied first place
in every brother's heart?
North Carolina, 1942 (Proceedings):
The Committee on Masonic Education reports the following recommendations:

890

PROCEEDINGS ·OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In these troubled times, the fraternal and the spiritual message of
Masonry has become more than ever of importance. This message is
implicit in the Masonic ritual and it is of the greatest importance, therefore, that all Masons should learn the ritual. We urge upon the lodges
that the officers be required to learn their work so that they can open and
close the Lodge efficiently, and can put on the degree work with credit
to themselves and their lodges. We further suggest occasional meetings
when the whole membership can review the catechisms. In this connection
we find it desirable that Master Masons should be taught the catechism
of the third degree. Competitions between teams in meeting will add
pleasure to this work.
Knowledge of the words of the ritual is not sufficient. They must be
understood. That the candidate may be properly instructed. the attention
of the Lodge officers is directed to the pamphlet entitled "The Lodge
System of Masonic Education" prepared by this committee some years
ago. Copies are available in the office of the Grand Secretary. The subordinate lodges are requested to consider its use.

MASONIC HOMES

Ohio, 1942 (Correspondence Reports):
First: The ceremonies of the several degrees are not alone for · the
benefit of the candidate of the particular occasion, but are intended to
contribute to the enlightenment of the members of the craft in attendance.
No portion of the work should be performed in complete darkness, or in
a light so dim that the brethren cannot see and appreciate the dramtic expression of movement as well as hear the inflection of the spoken word.
Second: Never, at any time, should the brethren lose sight of the
serious formality of the entire ceremony. A portion of our Third Degree
includes a form which alludes to one of the oldest-known initiatory rites
and also symbolizes a very important ·e vent in the history of the human
race. Any lightness of atmosphere within the Lodge room during that
portion of the degree is sure to defeat the purpose we have in mind, to
detract from the impression which we seek to make upon the candidate,
and to affect adversely his attitude toward the fraternity and the basic
teachings which we seek to inculcate into his very existence.
Utah, 1943 (Proceedings):
· This r eport deals principally with the calendar year 1942, although for
comparative purposes, some of the data are arranged to include the entire
Grand Lodge Year, from September, 1941, to December, 1942, inclusive.
A sharp decline is to be noted in most cases, in both educational and
attendance data. This is due to several causes, but the ones most noticeable are, a decline in the resident memberships of most Lodges, the rapid
rise of industrial activity, the loss of many regular Lodge attendants due
to their induction into military service and the extra burden which has
been placed upon many Lodge officers in respect to civilian defense activities. Most of the declining figures can therefore be traced directly to war
conditions.
Another interesting item on attendance is gasoline rationing. I will
quote briefly from one of several Lodges which have written on this
subject. Basin Lodge reports "every officer except the Treasurer living
out from Myton." Each must drive an average of 40 miles to attend
Lodge. The Junior Deacon drives 110 miles, the Junior Warden 50 miles.
They now confine all degree 'work to regular business meetings and education programs will suffer thereby.

891

This is a subject well worth serious study by the lay members of the
fraternity. It would be well if they took a keen interest and when they
learn of successful innovations in other jurisdictions, insist on their adoption locally.
·
Delaware, 1942 (Grand Master):
On Lancaster Pike stands a real monument to the Masonic Fraternity
Welfare Work-the Masonic Home. It was my pleasure to 'attend the
m<';eting of the Board of Managers of that Home on June 11, 1942. Personally, I wish to congratulate the managers upon the businesslike way in
which the affairs were handled. It was my privilege to inspect the Honie
and find it is indeed a Home in every sense of the word. The building
and grounds are well taken care of and the guests in the Home appreciate
the many comforts they are privileged to enjoy. The Superintendent,
Brother Grover C. MacNamee, and Mrs. MacNamee, are to be commended
for the fine service which they are rendering and their untiring efforts to
secure the best interests of the guests.
Masonry has no better memorial than the Masonic Home in Delaware
and it should receive the earnest support of every true Mason.
Kansas, 1943 (Grand Master):
The Kansas Masonic Home, located .in this city, is an outstanding
monument to the work of the craft. Through it we give expression to one
of the most important teachings of the fraternity. Four years of service
on its Board of Directors has given me a much greater insight into the
problems confronting its management.
M.W. Otto R. Souders, Secretary of the Board, has given much of
his time to the Home. We are deeply indebted to him for his valuable
service. The other directors have given freely of their time and rendered
valuable assistance. To Superintendent Ralph D. Cotton and the other
employees we are grateful for the fine work they are doing.
May I urge upon you and all Kansas Masons the necessity for two
things: Substantial additions to the Endowment Fund and a clear understanding of what constitutes eligibility for admission. I hope that each
of you will visit the Home and carry to your Lodge a first hand report
of what it is doing. In every visit to the Home I have been impressed by
the inquiry of members as to whether there was some one in attendance
at Grand Lodge from his or her Lodge and community. Brethren, do not
fail them.
Maryland, 1942 (Trustees Report):
A full report of the operations at "Bonnie Blink" will be submitted
in the course of the evening by Brother Harry L . Huether, on behalf
of the Board of Trustees. The thanks and appreciation of this Grand
Lodge are due the Homes Committee, consisting of Brothers Huether,
Robinson and Hessey, for their careful and constant attention to the
numerous details of operating the Homes and farm, without which service
a full-time superintendent would be required; to Mrs. Laura M . Schroeder,
the Matron of the Homes, for her efficient and understanding management
of the human or personal contact side of the work; and to the Board of
Trustees for its devoted attention to the task assigned to it.
I again call attention to the deficit in the current operating account
of the Homes. Despite the fact that we have used every possible source
of revenue in addition to the Maintenance Fund, the operations for the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

892

893

PROCEEDINGS OF '.fHE

six months' period show a deficit of $1,016.75. While it is true that the
accumulated ·Maintenance Fund, collected before the Home was actually
in operation, amounts to approximately $100,000.00, this fund has always
been regarded by the Trustees· as somewhat in the category of an endowment fund not to be touched except in case of extreme necessity.
Sound financing practiCe requires that current income should take care
of current expenses, without the necessity of drawing upon these accumulations. This matter will be given further thought and study by the
Board of Trustees, but is reported so that you may be prepared for any
recommendations which they may make.
The activities of the Board of Managers for the six months' period
will be covered by a report to be submitted on behalf of that Board by
Past Senior Grand Warden, Martin H . Kinsinger, who has discharged
this obligation for the Board for some time.
·
Minnesota, 1943 (Grand Master):
This Grand Lodge, in 1942, adopted a resolution which was aimed at
final liquidation of outstanding, delinquent Masonic Home assessments.
It looked like a drastic step. There were those who honestly and sincerely
counseled that in the stress of war it was inadvisable to proceed. All of
the pros and cons were given consideration. Were any of the prospective
future officers o.f this Grand Lodge better equipped to undertake the
task? What would you have thought of me if I had sidetracked the matter
and dodged the issue? In what light would I have stood before you today?
We determined to go through with it.
The approximate number of delinquent accounts, after making allowances for deceased members and discr<;pancies between Lodge records and
Masonic Home records, was 6,874 one year ago. The approximate aggregate
unpaid assessments at that time was $66,000.00. That was our starting
point. We are pleased to report accomplishments of the year. Many of
you may take just pride in your contributions to those accomplishmen~s.
You have been on the firing line and have done yeoman service. The
Committee on Masonic Home Assessments and the Committe'e on Lodges
will give you the breakdown on figures. It is sufficient for me to state at
this point that during the year the sum of $40,741.29 has been paid on
delinquent assessments; $2,278.92 has been cancelled by the committee
upon recommendation of Lodges on account of inability to p~y; approximately $7,660.00 is represented by promises to pay in regular installments;
$800.00 was unpaid by members who have passed away. The aggregate
amount of foregoing is approximately $51,480.21, which, deducted from
$66,000.00 leaves $14,519.79 for other consideration and action. This balance represents less than 3 per cent o:P the membership of this Grand
Jurisdiction. In other words more than 97 per cent of our members hav~
discharged their obligation to the Home.
New York, 1942 (Committee Report):
Our Home at Utica is parctica!ly full to capacity, as regards old
people. In fact, in certain classification, there is already a waiting list. To
be eligible the applicant must be worthy and indigent or in destitute
circumstances without any one under legal liability for their support. The
application must originate from a Lodge within the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of the State of New York and comply with the Rules, Conditions and Qualifications promulgated to cover the same.
There is no right or benefit entitling any person to entry into our
Masonic Home, or to aid and assistance from any of the Organized
Charities of Grand Lodge. What Grand Lodge does is solely be.ievolence

gratuitously and generously extended to the limit of its capacity, and
necessarily restricted to its financial resources. All applications for admission to our Masonic Home are addressed to the discretion of your
Trustees.
North Carolina, 1943 (Committee):
Your Committee on Masonic and Eastern Star Home respectfully
reports that it has, through the observations of its individual members,
kept in touch with the work of the Masonic and Eastern Star Home
throughout the year. Just as the Oxford Orphanage is governed by a
Board of Directors, a part of whom are appointed by t~e Governor of
North Carolina, so the Masonic and Eastern ·star Home 1s governed by
a Board, a part of whose members are elected by the Grand Chapter of
North Carolina, Order of the Eastern Star.
The management of the institution in consecrated to the ~ervice of our
elderly guests there. The Board is unselfish and devoted .to 1t~ trust. T~e
Superintendent sincen;ly loves these guests, knows their mmds, ~nd is
singularly able to sympathize with t~em _and ke.ep them .happy ev~n m the
midst of their many ailments and while time hangs heavtly on their hands.
We recommended to the Grand Lodge-that it give this institution the
maximum support, moral and financial, of which it is capable.
Nova Scotia, 1942:
The report of the Trustees of the Freemasons' Home was read by
M.W, Brother Goefirey Stevens, who moved. its adoption. Seconded by
M.W. Brother M. L. Fraser and carried.
One of the real rewards which comes to a Grand Master is to become
chairman of the Board of Trustees of Freemasons' Home, of Nova Scotia,
a Home for which we have every reason to be proud.
The big event of the year was the instal.l ation of the s~ri.nkler ~ystem
at a cost of $4,745.82, all of which was received by subscnptton, with the
exception' of $218.00, and of this $35.00 has since come to hap.d. We feel
that this small balance should have been taken care of by the brethren,
many of whom did not respond to our appeal.
We closed the year with a substantial surplus, which is grat!fy~ng. No
extraordinary expense is contemplated at the present. The butldmgs are
all in good order. .
The following is a synopsis for the year endin~ May 1st, 1942: Admitted, 7; died, 6; retired, 2.
Ohio, 1942 (Superintendent):
Althought war and its attendant problems have seriously affected our
personnel and increased the price of every article we purchase, yet there
has been in our Home a spirit of gratitude that we have so many.comforts,
and thus far the service of all kinds which our Home has furnished, has
not been curtailed.
In a fine spirit of patriotism, we are ready to make thos~ sacrifi~es
which may become necessary in every home, large and small, 1.n America
to help our boys who are fighting all over the world that our ideals may
prevail and be enjoyed by people in every land.
We are ever grateful to our country and the Masonic Brotherhood for
our wonderful Home and its privileges and blessings.
Washington, 1942 (Superintendent) :
Despite a more or less difficult economic year, we are pleased to report
that a substantial amount was rnverted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

894

We wish again to express our thanks to all who have made this, our
first year at the Home, a pleasant one. We ha've been most happy in
service and associations.
our

MEMBERSHIP

. 1!'- r~vie.w of ~e various clippings under this heading . shows a decided
s1m1lanty m their trend,_ almost a static condition. It is a safe prediction
that when the world agam becomes settled the intrinsic merits of Masonry
will once again inspire a steady growth.
District of Columbia, 1942. (Correspondence Chairman):
It would
a senseless waste of time for anyone to compile statistics
of mex_nbersh1p :when there is available the information contained in the
splen~1d tabulation by M: W. Brother J. Edward Allen, appearing each
year in the North Carolina proceedings. Always we commend to our
readers a study of all details of these tables, but for those who will only
read as they run we have condensed the following main facts.
·
. On the basis of figures av~ilable April 1, 1942, the percentage. of loss
in Lo?ge~ throughout .the United States was .58. Thirty-four states and
the D1stnct of Columbia reported losses ranging downward -from the 2.25
of Oklahoma to the .0033 of Montana. Nineteen states showed higher
percentage of loss than the .87 of the District of Columbia.
•
Gains- were reported in 14 states, ranging upward from .01 \n Oregon
to 2.65 for Texas.
Suspensions . ranged from 10.69 in · South Carolina to the surprising
figure of .273? in New York. The District of ~olumbia, with 1.962, stood
24th on the hst. The average for the United States was 6.115 so it will
be noted that in this respect the District of Columbia has done' well.
. South Carol~na, hi~hest in suspens,ic;ms, was also . highest in raisings,
with 4.689. Indiana, with _1.117, was lowest; the District of Columbia, with
2.264, stood 29th; only slightly below the average for the United States2.303.
.It is inter~sting to note that the percentage of loss throughout Canada,
which _for a t11:ne almost exactly paralleled our own, has decreased to .014
as against our .58.
·

?e

Georgia, 1942 (Proceedings):
. Du~ing the past year, more than 1,600 candidates were raised, and the
subord1~ate Lodges showed a net gain of more than 1,000 in membership.
You will recall that last year a consolidated report of the subordinate
Lodges showed a net gain of 63 members. For years prior to that time
losses in membership were reported. So, I feel that ~e have "turned th~
c?rn~r," ~nd that. this substantial increase in membership reflects a rev:1tahz_ed interest m Masonry, as well as improvement in economic conditions m the State.
Kansas, 1943 (Grand Master):
G.e?erally speaking, Lodges throughout the state seem to be in good
con~1tlon. A large number of young men about to be called into the
service of ..their country ha".e petitioned for the mysteries. To my mind,
no finer tribute could be paid to the Institution. Young men about to be
taken from their accustomed moorings, facing unfavorable conditions and
in great danger, turn to th~ teachings of Masonry for counsel and guidance. Some of our Lodges m smaller communities have suffered severely

GRAND LODGE OF tALIFORNIA

895

in this line ·for officers due to the war . conditions. In the .Lodge, as in
other form$ of activity, it will be necessary"for · the older men to assume
added duties.
Let us see to it that in our Lodges, as well as els~where, those who
fight for our Republic on foreign land will find· on their return home that
w~, for. \\;liose protection a~d . setl!,rity in par't . t.h~Y ..have fought, have not
failed the,m . . For the past. year we s.h6W a. net gain ih membership of 1,124.
This is the -la~ges.t net. ·gain in membership since 1928.
Maine, 1943 (Grand Master):
It is gratifylng· to le~ort, my brethren, that for the first time in many
years, Grand ·Lodge ' h·~~-- made a gain in membership. As of March 1,
1943, the number of members returned by the lodges was 34,707, being
211 more than the number returned a year ago.
While I have no accurate knowledge of the actual conditions responsible for that gain, such information as I have, indicates that close
scrutiny was given to all applicants, and that quality and not quantity
was the governing principle upon which the successful candidates were
admitted.
Montana, 1942 (Past Grand Master, Ohio):
I differ with my own Grand Jurisdiction on one other thing. Mr.
Claudy made a reference to the Bible. When David was being opposed
by Absolom, his son, J oab had just stabbed Absolom and killed him.
David said, "What of the young man?" I think if there is any question
that ought to be considered seriously by Masonry, it is, "What of the
young man?" I don't refer to any special youth organization, but t)le
Grand Lodge of Ohio recently refused to let the DeMolays meet in the
Lodge rooms. I have noticed in the State of Ohio they are getting the
young men of the thirties, instead of the twenties. The younger men are
not answering the appeal of Masonry.
Prince Edward Island, 1942 (Grand Master):
The examination of the records disclosed a variety of conditions, but
on. the whole one can say that the Order in this Jurisdiction is in a healthy
state. All the Lodges held meetings during the preceding year in numb.er
from seven to nineteen; about half of them conferred degrees, one as many
as 19, and although the tendency toward net loss of membership in the
Jurisdiction as a whole was not arrested, the falling off was very small
and I have hopes that by now the worst is past and that we may look
forward to a · gradual growth in numbers. In all the Lodges there were
dues in arrear; the amounts averaging from 37c per member in one Lodge
to $3.33 in another, A Lodge having arrears of 44c per member had recently achieved this low figure by a special effort whereby overdue sums
amounting to $132.00 were got in. Where arrears have accumulated, a
determined drive to recover past due amounts is greatly to be commended;
but even more to be commended would be the steady and efficient action
of Lodge Officers in getting in each year's dues as they become payab)e,
thus preventing .the accumulation of arrears. When a member fails to
make his payments r egularly he not only deprives his Lodge of the use
of money rightly due, but his default gives rise to a state of mind on his
own part towards the Lodge, and on the part of his Brethren towards
him, which chills the fraternal spirit and weakens the Lodge. Cases
sometimes occur in which a Brother finds it impossible to keep up his
payments. When investigation has shown that a wo.rthy Brother _is so
situated, he should be helped by the remission of his indebtedne.s s in

896

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

whole or in. part, done in such an ungrudging and tactful manner as to
Win the Brothers's heartfelt appreciation and increase his esteem for the
fraternity.
Quebec, 1942 (Grand Master):
An examination of the Grand Secretary's reports for the twenty-one
years from the year 1920 to 1940, inclusive indicates a net increase in the
membership in this Jurisdiction of slightly over 3,000. During the elevenyear period from the year 1920 to 1930, inc_lusive, the average number
of initiati-0ns in each year was relatively high; the figures for the ten-year
period from 1931 to 1940, inclusive, shows substantial reduction. It is,
however, startling to note that, during this entire period of twenty-one
years, the suspensions were in excess of 35 per cent of the initiations
while the demits were nearly 25 per cent; resulting in a Joss of approii~
mately (i)Q per cent of those initiated. I have no hesitation in saying that
from no point of view can this be considered to be a healthy condition.
South Australia, 1942 (Proceedings):
Although it may have been expectea that there would be a slight in<;rease in membership owing to the number of candidates who have been
received in anticipation of going abroad, there has been really a decrease
of 24 for the year ended June 30th, 1941. There is now a membership of
13,485.
An inordinate number has been recorded for removals on account of
death-namely, 163, being an increase of 53 on last year.
The number of Brethren who have taken advantage of the privilege of
having their subscriptions remitted under Constitution 95 is 493 which
accounts for a slight decrease in revenue; otherwise the figures cor~espond
very closely with those of last year, and, being now in the second year
of the war, it may be considered satisfactory that the membership is· as it
stands.
PATRIOTISM
The following might well be a hint to committees on Masonic education--5timulate an interest on the part of the membership.
Mirinesota, 1943 (Grand Orator):
I~ you will study the theories advanced by Washington, Hamilton,
Madison and others among our apostles of freedom who erected the
most faultless and enduring temple to the liberties of mankind, you will
find that the fountain, th<! source of all authority, was the citizen. The
individual was surrounded by the township, the county, the state, the
nation, like so many concentric circles, each serving a double purpose,
each invested with the greatest possible Jurisdiction. Citizens were thereby
prevented from encroaching upon one anothers rights. Barriers were
erected between all of the citizens and the ambitious tyrant, which must
be demolished before the liberties of the people could be swallowed up in
a federal despotism. Then and now between the tyranny of centralization
· and the freedom of the citizen stands the integrity of the state. Thus
were established inherent and inalienable rights, enjoyed not by the grace
of governments, but of God. Thus was drawn the sacred circle which
circumscribes the independence of the individual and the sanctity of his
person and his property. This constitutes our American legacy. Thus
was established an ism, a way of life, which has on the whole been more
successful and more revolutionary than all others: Americanism. As the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

897

purpose and -the strength of America begins to unfold increasingly in this
conflict our perception becomes clearer of what the contribution of America
to the trend of civilization has been in the past, and what it can and
must be tomorrow. That contribution must help to shape a better world
order.
In that great objective Masonry can and will lend a helping hand. It
had a silent but mighty part in the making of America, and in fashioning
its fundamental life and law. The . future of Masonry in America and in
the world depends upon the part they now take in establishing the wider
freedoms and how they continue to be held together by the peculiar tie
which Masons spin and weave between men.

WASHINGTON MEMORIAL
Nearly all the grand jurisdictions had representatives at the meeting
of the G. W. M. N. M. A. at Alexandria, and from the unanimity of their
reports only routine matters were considered.
Delaware, 1942 (Committee):
The Thirty-second Annual Convention of the George Washington
Masonic National Memorial Association was held in the auditorium of the
Memorial at Alexandria, Virginia, on Monday, February 23, 1942, at
10:00 o:clock a. m. Most Worshipful Brother Elmer R. Arn, Past Grand
Master of Ohio, President of the Association, presided.
Forty-eight Grand Jurisdictions were represented as well as the Royal
Grand Chapter, General Grand Council, Supreme C~uncil 33rd Degr-e e
N. M. Jurisdiction, Shrine, Mystic Order of Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm, National League of Masonic Clubs and the Order of
DeMolay.
Among the changes and improvements made during the year:
The purchase of several adjoining lots.
The change in the lighting on the tower to comply with govern1!1ent requirements.
New steps on the terraces.
An agreement with Washington Alexandria Lodge No. 22 to
complete the Lodge ~oom and the Replica Room.
It was with pleasure that I presented a check for ~202.00. We are still
in second place and I assured the meeting that Delaware would continue
to do her part.
Maine, 1943 (Grand Master):
This great memorial to \.Vashington, the Mason, is more than that.
It is a monument to the Masons of our generation who conceived it, who
constructed it, who have paid and are paying for it. Every Mason who
visits the city of Washington should visit the memorial. Only by so
doing can he begin to sense the magnitude of the undertaking, and only
by visiting it can he even in a small way appreciate the part which
Masonry has played in the founding and perpetuation of our form of
government.
Minnesota, 1943 (Proceedings):
On February 23rd, the officers named, who attended the Grand Masters'
Conference, together with the Grand Secretary, were present at the annual meeting of the George Washington National Masonic Memorial

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Association. I was particularly pleased that Past Grand Master Matson
could be with us as he has been chairman of the committee of this Jurisdiction which has been endeavoring to raise our quota toward the financing
of this the greatest and finest monument ever erected by any organizati()n
in the history of our nation to one of its members.
The priceless Washington relics owned by Alexandria-Washington
Lodge had been transferred from the old Lodge hall and stored in the
memorial building, where they are safe from fire, theft and sabotage. As
soon as the replica room is completed they will be housed therein for
future generations to see and admire.

and maintain these same Masonic contacts for them wherever they may
be and, to this end, not only to solicit ·the active cooperation of the
Lodges themselves but also of the various Grand Jurisdictions wherein
their service units. may be located; and 3-to develop, so far as it is
possible to do so, a similar service in connection with the sons of Masons
who may have been inducted into the service.
A detailed report of their activities would be of the utmost interest,
but the time limited for the present address precludes the possibility of
such recital.

North Carolina, 1943 (Grand Master):
On the morning of February 22, 1943, I attended the meeting of the
George Washington Masonic Memorial Association in· Alexandria, Virginia. We were honored by the appointment at this meeting of our own
able and highly esteemed Past Grand Master Charles. P. Eldridge as a
member of the Board of Directors of the Association. Donations· to the
fund for the completion and maintenance of the memorial of approximately
$71,000 were made, and I am happy to report that $2,000.00 of this amount
was a payment on our previou.sly assumed quota made pursuant to the
action of the Grand Lodge at our ' last annual communication upon the
recommendation of Grand Master Eldridge.

Oregon, 1942 (Correspondence Chairman):
If memory serves this scribe aright, this plan of having the Masonic
Service Association act as a central organization through which welfare
work would be carried on among the personnel of the Armed Forces,
resulted from our having been pushed around a bit during World War
No. 1. We had been denied the privilege that had been accorded the
Y. M. C. A., Knights of Columbus, Salvation Army and others, because
the officials of the army and navy were loath to deal with forty-nine
Grand Bodies, lacking a central organization.
Piqued? Yes, possibly, Chagrined? ·Most assuredly. Determined that
it should not occur again? Yes! And to insure this, plans were prepared
and the organization designated that would take the field in cas.e _of
eventualities, so that Masonry would be represented on an equal footing
with any other organization.
Such was the picture as viewed in 1918 and such was · the picture
Masonry continued to see all during the years intervening between the
close of World War No. 1 and the opening of the present hostilities.
Like the French who having built their Maginot Line, could not see any
other plan of battle other than that which they had seen in 1914 to 1918,
so Masonry having made its plan of action could not see the possibility
of any other.
Plans made in 1917 were as obsolete when applied to the welfare
problems · of 1941 as were the plans of war drawn in 1917, when confronted with the needs of the present rapid mechanized form of warfare.
We did not recognize the changing set-up and the result is that the
U. S. 0., born of the necessity for unity, the reduction of overhead and
the need for service to all men in uniform rather than our own particular
group, came into being, with new plans, a trained personnel, a broader
conception of welfare service and a financial backing based on a nationwide appeal.
This writer has no quarrel with the Masonic Service Association or its
supporting Masonic Jurisdictions over their desire to be of service, for
that is putting into practice the teachings of the craft, but he does take
issue with them over the manner and form in which the service is being
rendered.
In appearing on the present scene with Huts, Hospitality Houses, Recreation Centers, or whatever term you may prefer to designate them, the
Masonic Service Association places Maso.nry'in an unenviable position regardless of what plan of action they may pursue in conducting these
establishments.
Either they will serve all comers, both Masonic or profane, and in
so doing introduce competition and a bidding for the patronage of the
men, an intensely objectionable feature that marred the welfare work of
World \:Var No. 1, or they will confine their efforts to serving Masons

898

WAR ACTIVITIES.
From the followi~j?; reports it is obviqus that every jurisdiction isi
earnestly and patriotically doing its,· duty-even if they do not uniformly
follow similar methods.
Montana, 1942 (D. G. M., District of Columbia):
Only Masonry can carry Masonry · to the Armed Forces and our sons
and relatives. It is that which we are doing at your behest . . . The
Masonic Service Association has not asked for money from anybody but
Masons. There has never yet been erected a Masonic Service center
where anything is sold. Everything is given free. Your money is not
used to buy and then to sell again. The hungry lad who comes in is
fed. The worried lad uses the long distance phone, and we pay the' bills.
He has writing paper free'. We have trained field agents who are Master
Masons in good standing; old enough to get the boys' respect, and young
enough to understand their problems, to whom they can bring their
problems and talk as Mason to Mason.
New York, 1942 (Grand Master):
At the session of the Grand Lodge a year ago, I informed the fraternity
of the appointment of a Committee on Military and Naval Service. Our
Country had called upon members of the . craft, from this Jurisdiction
and throughout our land, to prepare themselves for such service as might
be required in a national emergency. The obligation was upon us, as
their Masonic Brethren, to preserve for them their Masonic contacts and
the experience of that instinctive sympathy which is Freemasonry.
The Committee then appointed has endeavored to fulfil the program
thus outlined. Its membership was chosen geographically to represent the
several sections of the State. Its duties have been· three-fold: 1-to
minister -to Masonic Brethren located in camps within the State and
afford them. every" service which Masonic contacts can afford;· · 2+with ·'
relation to those .Brethren who ·have gone forth from the State, . to provide

899

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

only, in which case class distinction, based according to the ideas of many,
on religious differences, is being introduced to the detriment of the
Masonic soldier and sailor in his relations with his mates.
We hold firmly to the belief that this activity conducted as is now the
practice by Masonry, is a mistake. That the expenditures will be excessive
if the benefits accruing to the men are compared with what would have
been possible had a like expenditure of funds and effort been made in con. junction with the other groups in the field.

warship who called and was a brother of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee,
that on his ship there were seventy-five Freemasons. As the vessel was
in port for a matter of only a few hours and was leaving the morriing
after having learned this intelligence, it was too late to make any arrangements.

900

South Australia, 1942 (Proceedings):
The exercise and management of Freemasonry in this time of National peril are subject to special directions called for by the circumstances,
and the M.W. Grand Master has accordingly approved the following recommendations of the Board:
Lo.dges should continue to hold meetings as usual, so long as Commonwealth and State War Regulations are observed in their entirety.
Any particular Lodge or Lodges may be permitted to meet at such
time, place, and at such intervals as may be approved by the Grand Master.
The practice of Grand Officers conducting Installation Ceremoni.es
will be continued, subject to transport facilities being available. The attention of Lodges is drawn to Constitution 64, which deals with the position where they are unable to hold their usual meetings for the election
and installation of officers. In such event, Lodges are asked to communicate immediately with the Grand Secretary, who will report the circumstances to the Grand Master for his decision. This procedure is also
to be followed in regard to other Lodge meetings.
Whilst recognizing that evening .dress is the accepted dress for Masonic functions under normal conditions, the wearing of street clothes,
with the apron outside the coat, is recommended for general adoption
by the brethren at ordinary Lodge meetings, installations, and Grand
Lodge Communications ·during the present emergency.
·
Lodges are urged to open not later than 7 :30 p. m., and to insure that
all brethren shall retire from Lodge premises not later than 10 :30 p. m.
Festive Boards should be continued, but expenditures thereon shall be
reduced to il minimum.
The brethren are exhorted to use public conveyances wherever possible to get to Lodge functions. This applies more especially to the
metropolitan area.
On the sounding of an air-raid warning, the presiding officer shall
declare the Lodge "called off" summarily. The Director of Ceremonies,
or Marshal to be appointed ·for the purpose, shall supervise the prompt
evacuation of the brethren from the Lodge Room to the nearest shelter.
These directions will operate during the present emergency and/or until
varied by authority of the Grand Master.

•

*

*

Grand Master: The arrival of American troops suggested the probability that there must be among them some brethren who are members
of one of the forty-nine Jurisdictions in the United States with whom we
are in fraternal relationship. Although there were no means of conveying
to those who were already here the welcome we should have desired to
give them, -a letter was sent to every Grand Lodge in the States, extending
a welcome to any who may not yet have left America, and assuring the
Grand Lodges of our wish to meet and entertain them. We learned, after
the despatch of these letters, from one of the personnel of an American

901

Washington, 1942 (Grand Master) :
I have been in close touch with the work of the Committee on Masons
in the Armed Forces. This Committee has submitted its report to me _in
advance of the convening of Grand Lodge, and I am in accord with its
recommendations.
When this Committee was appointed we were not at war; tlie problems
with which it has to deal have been multiplied and intensified by our
entry into the conflict. While I agree heartily with the viewpoint of the
Committee that we should not join the Masonic Service Association in its
program of establishing Welfare Centers, we must make sure that we
adequately carry out the program that we have outlined for ourselves,
to-wit :
l. Encouraging Lodges to keep in touch with their own members.
2. Informing Masons in the service of all Masonic meetings held in
proximity to the places where they may be stationed; and keeping them
in contact with things Masonic.
Washington, 1943 (Committee):
This committee was appointed by the Grand M aster on November 12,
1941. It was clearly the sentiment of .the last Grand Lodge, and we believe it reflected the feeling of the great majority · of the Masons of this
jurisdiction then and now, that we should not engage in any program iµvolving the establishment of huts or "welfare" centers for our brethren
in the Armed Forces. Our feeling was and is that the cost would be prohibitive and that it would be merely a duplication of the work of agencies
such as those in the U. S. 0., which are better equipped to do that type
of work.
The committee has therefore attempted J,:o develop a twofold program:
l. Encouraging Lodges to keep in contact with their own members in
the service.
2. Informing Masons in the service of all Masonic meetings held in
proximity to the places where they may be stationed; and keeping them
in contact with things Masonic.
No one plan or program can be univ(!rsally applicable, but we have
encouraged each community to work out something which meets its
particular problems.
Outstanding meetings honoring our brethren in the service have been
held by a number of our Lodges, and there has been a very real effort tO
make them feel that no matter in what part of the United States their
family home might be, their ·Masonic home was no farther away than
our nearest Lodge Dances and entertainments of various kinds have been
sponsored.
Of the two hundred fifty· dollars appropriated for our work only $50.22
has been expended. This does not mean that there should be any reduction
in the amount budgeted for the work of this committee; as a matter of
fact, that amount should be substantially increased if the work of the
committee is to be continued.
While it has been a source of satisfaction to the committee to receive
letters of commendation and expressions of approval of what is being

902

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

done in this jurisdiction from our brethren in the service, their home
Lodges, and their Grand Lodges, we ·realize that all of the credit must
.go to our Lodges which have assumed the responsibility of carrying out
our twofold program.

of the men in the service, particularly our· Brethren and our sons. This
is an obligation not only of the individual but it is an obligation of the
institution. Freemasonry n;iust not be foup.d wanting in the present emergency. This is not because of mere pride in the good name of the
fraternity; it is because such cooperation is important and necessary in the
common effort to preserve those principles of liberty and democracy which
are the outgrowth of and predicated upon our system of Masonic philosophy. The preservation of our way of life and the maintena~ce of our
ideals as potent factors . in the shaping of human relationships require that
Freemasonry be not lacking in its utmost endeavor.
·
To this end, I have called upqn every Mason in the State of New
York to contribute at least one dollar a year for the duration of the emergency to the Masonic War-Chest.
It ·may be that as Mas.o ns, as A.merlcans, we have taken our obligations lightly; tha_t confident of our privileges we have forgotten to secure
their protection ; that in· the comfort of our own estate we have ignored
our neighbor's needs, not heeding that if his house burns our own home
and possessions are in danger of the conflagration. Perhaps we too have ·
gathered into barns as in the parable of old and said, "Soul, thou hast
much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease"-forgetting that
"where the treasure ·is there will the heart be also."
If so, then it is also true that slowly and in travail we are learning that
the real treasures lie not in the tangibles but in the intangibles and that
the great values of life are revealed to us "not in moments of happiness
but are taught to us in moments of sorrow.'"
May I repeat to you what was said twenty-five years ago by our late
Senior Grand Chaplain, R.W. Samuel Parkes Cadman:
"We are here to redeem .ourselves and to maintain that we do not
gather simply to blow our trumpets in t he new moon and cry out what
profitable servants we are, but rather to try and serve a stricken and bleeding world, in which there are millions of broken hearts ·t~day, and many,
many more tomorrow. For there are men sitting in my presence who
have given up their flesh and blood, who will have to sacrifice .the com. petences with which they had hoped to cheer and relieve the infirmity of
age, who will see their backgrounds shattered and their projects laid in
the dust, and the homes which were built up by the love of family, by labor
and devotion, either robed in grief or slipping beyond their pecuniary care.
To help these is the real task of Masonry. These are the things to which
we stand pledg'e d by all that ther.e is in us, and this is why we are leaving
the comparative obscurity in which we rather love to linger that we may
do something for the great want and woe of mankind."

Wyoming, 1942 (Proceedings):
Since the convening of the Grand Lodge last August, we have become
engaged in another World War. Masonry is ably represented by thousands of brethren in the Armed Forces. They are demonstrating the same
determination and the same loyalty to patriotism that have characterized
Masons from the beginning of this nation. We owe them every consideration that we can give them. From my information, the Masonic Service
Association is doing a splendid work in behalf of these brethren.
At our last session, we set up a per capita q~ota -0f ten cents per
member. This proved inadequate in the light of the emergency. With
the assistance of the Grand Secretary, I issued a letter to the subordinate
Lodges, urging each member to contribute one dollar to this· service. The
response was excellent, and to date we have received $2,648.20. Masonic
centers have been established. This association is the only medium through
which we can adequately serve our brethren in the Armed Forces.
I have ,"given this problem serious consideration and urge this Grand
Lodge to take affirmative action in setting the per capita quota in such
an amount as may be deemed adequate in the light of all the circumstances. There seems to be only one of two alternatives we cah follow:
A. Voluntary contributions.
B. Raise the per capita assessment.
It occurs to me that the per capita assessment is the better of the two
methods.
WAR RELIEF
As under the heading of War Activities it is evident from the reports
that the craft is wholeheartedly and earnestly endeavoring to meet the
situation.
Canada, 1942 (Grand Master):
Following the action of Grand Lodge of a year ago the committee has
been continued in office and throughout the year they have done most excellent work. The committee continued to arrange for the comfort of
those relatives of British Masons who came to Canada but found unexpectedly that exchange regulations would not permit them to receive
money from the home land. The . major work of the committee lay in
the prosecution of the continuance of the appeal for the fund known as
the Grand Lodge British War Relief Fund. This original appeal was
made about Marsh 1st, 1941, and when Grand Lodge met a year ago the
report was made that the members of the craft had contributed in the
short space of a little ove.r four months, $115,000. This year our effo~ts
on behalf of this fund have spread over a period beginning last September
and I am happy to report that another $115,000 and more has been contributed . and that contributions are still coming in. This splendid result'
has .b~en achieved under the energetic efforts and leadership of this
committee.
New York, 1942 (Grand Master):
All of these indicated services and others not enumerated are within
our power as Masons and as Lodges to perform; but certainly we have
one duty clearly indicated-namely, to minister to the welfare. and morale

903

Quebec, 1942 (Proceedings):
Since the outbreak of the war a total sum of $15,000.00 has been placed
at the disposal of the Finance Committee to be expended at their discretion
on war services. The contributions made up to the present time comprise
three subscriptions to the Canadian Red Cross totalling $5,000.00, $1,000.00
to the Canadian War Services Fund, $250.00 to the Salvation Army War
Services Fund, and $100.00 to the Canadian Legion War Services Fund,
a total of $6,350.00, leaving a balance in hand of $8,650.00.
South Australia, 1942 (Proceedings):
The amount stariding t.o the credit of the War Relief Fund today is
£1,816/1712, inclu<ling £1,00p voted by Grand Lodge at its establishment.
The Board is fully aware of the innumerable calls to which Freemasons,
. as citizens, are bound to respond, but for the maintenance of the reputation

904

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that the craft has achieved in supporting its own members, there should
be a special appeal to the moral obligation.
Many Lodges have contributed generously and have assured the
Board of their intention of continuing to subscribe.

average an equivalent to 24.9 per cent of the membership attended the
meeting·s this past year for the ten smallest lodges, as compared with 6.5
per cent for the ten largest.

GOOD AND WELFARE
A new heading in these reports. Many interesting and instructive suggestions will be found in these notes.
District of Columbia, 1942 (Grand Master):
From innumerable sources there have come to me proofs that our
brethren desire strongly to have an individual part in contributing to the
comfort and well-being of those near and dear to us who are actively engaged in the war effort, to give them positive assurance of our determination that, so far as lies in our power, and at any sacrifice, we shall give
them that loving aid and comfort which Freemasonry knows so well how
to bestow. I feel ·strongly that our individual brethren should be afforded
the opportunity, which they so earnestly desire, to contribute of their
means to this noble purpose.
In conformity with this belief, and by virtue of the power and authority
vested in me as Grand Master of Masons of the District of Columbia, I do
hereby create and establish a District of Columbia Masonic Welfare Fund.
I further decree and direct: ·
·
1. That every Master Mason of our District of Columbia Lodges be requested to contribute not less than one dollar to the said Masonic Welfare
Fund for the present year.
Maine, 1943 (Committee on Jurisprudence):
We believe our Grand Lodge has gone as far as possible in a liberal
interpretation of the ancient landmarks and the last and crowning landmark of all, is that the landmarks can never be changed, but were received
from our predecessors under a soleinn obligation and duty to transmit
them to our successors.
·
·
The question therefore involves more than a denial of the privileges
of Masonry to those who under the ancient landmarks through no fault
of their own are unable to meet its 'requirements. There are many other
institutions where they can be of service to their fellow men, and no man,
however worthy, has an inherent right to become a Mason. It is a
privilege that he may secure only under the ancient landmarks and
customs of the fraternity. If he cannot meet these requirements, and the
ancient landmarks are changed for his accommodation, he may be a
member of an organization, but it will not be Masonry. As honorable men
and Masons intrusted with the care and management of our ancient and
honorable institution, we are under solemn oath to strictly comply with
all ancient Masonic. usages and transmit them unimpaired to our successors. It is not within our power to change them even were we convinced
that it is advisable so to do.
Maine, 1943 (Proceedings):
Frequently the attendance at the meetings of our smaller lodges is
cause for concern. Measured in terms of numbers, this concern is well
founded; however, in comparing· relationship of membership and attendance at the meetings of small lodges with that at the large lodges, it is
clear than our large lodges are woefully weak. The data show that on ~he

905

Minnesota, 1943 (Grand Master):
lt is customary to give briefly a recapitulation of the gains and losses
in membership during the year. When I sat on this platform one year
ago listening to the proposed legislation relating to liquidation of the
Masonic Home assessment, I had a sinking sensation from which I did not
recover for weeks. There were approximately six thousand eight hundred
delinquent Masonic Home accounts. I had visions of thousands of members being stricken because of failure to respond. I said to myself, as
Grand Master you are going to take the greatest licking in membership
losses of any Grand Master in the history of this Grand Lodge. It is,
therefore, with much pride of accomplishment for you and for me that
I tell you that in spite of the liquidation of more than seventy-five per
cent of the $66,000.00 of delinquent Masonic Home assessments existing
one year ago, this Grand Lodge has suffered the lowest net loss in membership during 1942 of any year since 1929. I know you will rejoice with
me as a result. May I express the hope that my successor will be able to
throw away the red ink and actually establish us on the increase again.
During 1942, 1,033 were raised, 382 joined, and 222 were restored.
Four hundred ninety-nine withdrew, 717 were stricken and 815 died,
suspended and expelled 5, making a net loss of 399, as compared with 583
in 1941, 653 in 1940, and 715 in 1939.
Nova Scotia, 1942 (Grand Secretary):
We are able to report a general improvement all along the line, for the
year ending December 31st, 1941.
The number of candidates raised tota.led 266 against 171 for the previous year, 137 were suspended against 212 in 1940; the riet loss in membership was 11, while in 1940 it was 137; gross amount of dues exceeded the
previous year by $657.30.
We have good reason to be proud of the response received from the
members, both towards the Sprinkler Fund, and the Queen's Canadian
Fund. These · amounts were collected at a minimum of cost, and most
cheerfully subscribed by . a very large majority of the craft.
A very large number of members, are actively engaged, not only in
the services, but in various other war activities. Let us remember there is
a place for all to do something, of one kind or another.
1942 has opened well, and we have every reason to believe, that we will
have turned the corner by the end of this year.
Oregon, 1942 (Grand Master):
Having been in close contact with the brethren all over the Grand
Jurisdiction throughout the year, both personally and through the District
Deputy Grand Masters, it is with sincere pleasure that I am able to report
to you that the state of the fraternity is excellent. The condition of most
of the Lodges, both financially and otherwise, is sound. A few Lodges
which had experienced trouble with the financial end of somewhat ambitious building programs, are, under conservative management, slowly
but steadily working their way toward firm ground. One or two small
rural Lodges have experienced some difficulty in maintaining a good attendanc.e at meetings. This is largely due to the fact that the communities,
which these Lodges serve, have declined in population. Some· consolidations may be necessary, but I think that these may well await the end of

906

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the war, as, with tire and gasoline restrictions, the matter of transportation
of brethren to somewhat more distant Lodges might be a ·serious problem
at present.
Quebec, 1942 (Proceedings):
The total assets of Grand Lodge now amount to $562,023.99, an increase during the year of $17,686.53.
Th(( progress of the various funds may be briefly stated as follows:
General Fund-The General Fund at the end of the last financial year
stood at $5,073.87, from which the sum of $2,500.00 was transferred to the
Benevolent Fund. The excess of receipts over disbursements during the
year amounted to $3,954.87, increasing the Fund to $6,328.74. It is recommended that $4,000.00 be transferred from the General Fund to the Benevolent Fund.
.
Be~evolent Fund-Th~ grants approved of during the year by the
C?mm1ttee on Benevolence and Charity were again relatively moderate,
with the result that receipts exceeded disbursements by $840.96. The Fund
now amounts to $59,112.99.
Permanent Benevolent Fund-The Permanent Benevolent Fund increased by $15,390.60 to a total of $494,382.26.
Utah, 1943 (Grand Secretary):
We have not yet rounded the "corner" in the matter of the movement
of members. The Lodges lost 267 and gained 216, which means a net loss
of 51, or six less than reported in the last returns. Distributed as to causes
of this loss we find that 108 members were taken by ·death or 21 more
than in the shorter period; suspension for non-payment of dues accounts
for 98, or 25 more than showed in. the last report; 60 dimitted which is
17 more than in 1941. Five Lodges report the same net membership as in
last report; twelve Lodges sustained a loss totaling 86 while nine had a
gain amounting to 35. Less than one-half of the Lodg~s show a net loss
over 1941. One Lodge reported a net loss of 36, while another Lodge
showed a gain of twelve.
Little more need be reported on this subject than to say that due to
war conditions a greatly increased number of requests for courtesy work
have come to us from other ] urisdictions and have been sent out by us
on behalf of our Lodges. Practically all of the men for whom these
favors were requested were in the Armed Forces of the United States.
Some of our Utah candidates at the time the request was made were in
England, in the Canal Zone and the Hawaiian Islands, and we were asked
to ascertain if certain of the Australian Gr·a nd Lodges accept courtesy
w?rk. In every instance but one our requests were cheerfully compli~d
with, and our Lodges ~ve .been ready at all times to care for this additional work.
Washington, 1942 (Grand Master):
The general condition of Masonry in Washington and Alaska appears
to be sound and progressive. Many of our Lodges are experiencing a ·
marked increase in degree work, and many are exercising a great effort
to render good and faithful service to their brethren who are in the
Armed Forces of our Country. The war, unquestionably, is showing its
effect in the government of ou.r Lodges, for many now have one or more
of their three principal officers in the service. I am, however, happy to
report that no serious emergencies have yet arisen demanding the attention
of the Grand Master. The work of the Lodges has been carried on uninterrupted, by the officers next in rank. I am a-lso pleased to report' that

GRAND LODGE OF CAJ.IFORNIA

907

we have not yet .experienced any great or unusual influx of war-time
applications such as we did some twenty-five years ago. We will remember what effect this condition wrought upon .our fraternity, a nd the many
warnings we have since received to guard against such a recurrence. Our
leaders in the past have sounded this warning, so let us heed th e words of
one of our illustrious Past Grand Masters, who once said : "Our design
is not to put more m~n into Masonry but to put more Masonry into men."
In a bulletin ac;ldressed to all our Lodges I pointed out the five common weaknesses of a Lodge and suggested, under five paragraphs, how
these weaknesses might be partially corrected or at least strengthened. In
determining the common ailments of a Lodge I used the analogy of a
doctor examining a patient; how he would first test the pulse, temperature,
heart and blood, and if it was then necessary he would use every other
test known to medical scienc·e. He would determine the cause, locate the
weak or affected parts, after which the treatment would be prescribed or
the remedy administered. In like manner we should x-ray our own case.
By a careful study we would find many of our Lodges with five weaknesses-five weak spots needing examination and attention. Space will not
permit me to go into any lengthy detail, so here they are in brief form:
1. Lack of leadership in our Lodges-Worshipful Masters and Officers
have not the ability, or have not the inspiration to plan and work.
2. Lack of proper Lodge management-Meetings are poorly conducted,
not interesting, too slow, and draggy- too late at night. M any Lodge
rooms are too big and barny for the average attendance. I m proper ventilation and poor acoustics.
3. Lack of well planned programs-No preliminary arrangements made
to organize good programs.
4. Lack of a genuine spirit of fellowship-Officers are cold and
unfriendly.
5. Lack of inter-Lodge visitations-No inspiration ·to emulate the
good work and fellowship of other Lodges.
1. Endeavor by every means at your command to inspire your Worshipful Masters to be leaders. Inspire them with the idea that the Masonic
Lodge room is offering them the opportunity, material, and equipment
. fOr their own self-training and self-improvement, enjoyed by only a few
men and profited only by those who study, work and plan.
2. Emphasize better Lodge management. Open an d close on time;
better and shorter meetings is the solution to this problem. Open
promptly, carry on uninterruptedly, and close early to insure interesting
and well-attended meetings. It is my opinion that we should have no such
practice as "calling at ease" or "free from restraint until the sound of the
G. in the E." This should be the time to have a word from visitors, the
report of the sick committee, or other matters. All Lodges should be
dark at 10 :30 o'clock, the brethren on their way home or at the refreshment table.
3. Encourage well planned programs. Our most successful Lodges
have regular monthly officers' meetings and issue a bulletin or trestle
board thirty days in advance. Lodge notices published in the local papers
have brought resu,lts and have had a good effect upon the general public.
Many of our Lodges are overlooking the opportunity to have at least three
outstanding meetings a year.
4. Every Lodge should make an effort to improve the spirit of friendship and fellowship. I like to meet with a group of good fellows who
really show it by the warmth of their welcome and the smile on their
faces, and who always maintain that proper regard for the dignity of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

908

909

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonry. Officers and members should be friendly, kind and considerate
to one another, especially the timid brother, young or old, who has trouble
getting to his feet and expressing his thoughts or convictions. A Lodge
cannot expect to have regular visitors if the officers and members are un·
friendly, quarrelsome, critical and ridicule the mistakes of others. The
Master who has a "run the Lodge" attitude, usually runs the Lodge alone.
5. In.ter-Lodge visitations widens our acquaintance, enlarges our conception of brotherhood, and inspires our officers and members to a greater
degree of proficiency in the work. Therefore, may I ask that every Lodge
in your district set aside a night and invite the officers and members of
some other Lodge outside of your district, or at least from another town,
to visit the Lodge. The visiting Lodge should confer a degree or furnish
a speaker or a program of music, or "what have you." This should create
greater interest and activity in your district these coming winter months.
Utah, 1943 (Grarid Master):
The most important committees a Master of a Lodge is called upon
to appoint are the committees to .which · he entrusts the work of investigating the qualifications of those who seek admission into the fraternity.
The committee personnel being different in each case, it follows that the
character of investigations will likewise differ.
For the purpose of improving upon present practice and for the government of Committees on Investigation of petitioners for the degrees, I
recommend that a new form of petition blank be drafted, along with a
questionnaire to be signed by the committees, cove\'ing those points upon
which information is necessary to the determination of the fitness of the
petitioner to become a Mason.

· CORRESPONDENCE REPORTS
From the following it will be seen that correspondence reports are
of universal interest to the craft. The chairman of the South Dakota
committee hits the nail on the head when he says: "There is no greater
opportunity for the individual Mason to broaden his knowledge than;
through the Proceedings of other jurisdictions."
Canada, 1942 (Proceedings):
M.W. Brother W. S. Herrington, chairman, presented this report by
reading the foreword and recommended to the brethren that they read
the reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand Lodges which would be
found as an appendix to our Proceedings. It was moved by the Deputy
Grand Master, seconded by M.W. Brother Herrington, and carried, that
the report be received and adopted.
. •
Every item of the Proceedings o~ the Grand Lodge of ' California is
so interesting that one can hardly do justice to this Grand Lodge in a
short review.
The Grand Master, Lloyd Earl Wilson, is now the Grand Secretary
and after reading his inspiring address to Grand Lodge, one can readily
realize why the members chose him as Grand Secretary.
The fo'lowing quotation from the Address of the Grand Master should
prove int~nsely interesting to Masons wheresoe{rer dispersed. In part he
said: "During the year I have met and talked with many thous;mds of
Masons. I find them to be sincere, earnest, serious-minded men who are
concerned both about the affairs of Masonry, and the affairs of the nation.

I would say that on the whole the membership situation is satisfactory,
but I would suggest that we give increased attention to the matter of restorations and to the prevention of suspensions for non-payment of dues."
Manitoba, 1942 (Proceedings):
•
Consequent on paper saving your Committee has abandoned the former
method of individual reviews.
A great deal of attention is being given to the solution of one of our
problems--that of the unattached and also suspended brethren-and it
would appear that a determined effort is being made to solve this problem.
Prior to the initiation of candidates, many Grand Lodges require the
subordinate Lodges to give the candidates a preliminary statement concerning Freemasonry which must be read before signing the petition.
We are also including an Agenda on Masonry in Europe which we
hope will be of interest to the brethren.
Maine, 1943 (Correspondence Chairman):
The report of the California Committee on Correspondence is written
and compiled by a committee of seven brethren, this was made necessary
by the severe illness of Brother Jesse M. Whited who for many years
wrote ,the report. A brief "Foreword" by the committee includes a cj.iscussion of the question-Why correspondence reports? To which the
answer is given-"It is a time-saving guide or index to the curr.ent
Masonic thought."
Maine has little place in the selections from Grand Master's address
or Maine's Correspondence report. Probably we got what we deserve.
However, we like the committee's closing paragraph of the "Foreword"
and take the liberty of quoting it:
"How can we sit in our Lodge rooms and talk of universal brotherly
love when the men of this world are killing each other in the greatest
human slaughter of history?
. "The .answer though is quickly found in the realization that this is
also Masonry's war. The enemy would destroy our existence, would force
a rejection of that which we may call our divine insight; that man is of
equal cosmic importance. There is nothing soft about our idea of the
universal brotherhood of man. It is worth working for, worth fighting
for, worth dying for. On that central war theme do our Masonic Grand
Jurisdictions unite in sayii;ig: 'The die is cast; there shall be no regrets'."
Ohio, 1942 (Correspondence Committee):
Thesa Foreign Correspondence Reports do more for Masonry universal, bring the Grand Lodges closer to?ether, are developing and fostering a real world-wide spirit of fraternity, and, much more than we realize,
are promoting a universal brotherhood, based upon lines laid down by the
Grand Architect of the Universe.
Believe me, Hitler knows what Masonry is doing, and there are sleepy
people-not of Hitler's kind-who ought to wake up and know it, and
join in the grand procession to u,:iiversal brotherhood, universal freedom,
and universal right.
South Australia, 1942 (Committee Chairman):
. The volume (California Proceedings) concludes with an interesting
report upon Correspondence, mostly on subjects that may be termed
"hardy annuals." There is nothing of special interest to South Australian
Freemasons and no mention of South Australia.

910

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

South Dakota, 1942 (Committee Report):
This report is taken from all the Grand Lodges of the United States
and the District of Columbia, with the exception of six : Alabama, Michigan, New York, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Uta~ and Washington,
none of which have come to.my desk. In addition, I have received fifteen
Foreign Grand Lodge proceedings: thirteen reviewed and two (being in
foreign language) I was unable to read.
In the minds of some, the Reviewer's services are very limited, and
that the cost of printing , exceeds the services rendered. This view is
caused by lack of Masonic Education with some, and lack of interest with
·others. Until such time as the local Lodges find time and have the interest
to seek a broader view of universal Masonry, there will undoubtedly be
that tendency. The Grand Lodge night, as adopted in our Educational
Program, is intended to fill this needed want. Without a good report
through the Foreign Correspondent, little opportunity is offered to local
Lodges to know what is happening even in a Sister Jurisdiction, to say
nothing of those more distant, and especially those outside our own
country.
There is no greater opportunity for the individual Mason to broaden
his knowledge than through the proceedings of other Jurisdictions. Those
engaged in Ritualistic work demonstrate a variety of reasons fqr their
activities; some to be conspicuous, some to acquire title and others for
various reasons. The largest group represents those eagerly searching for
more Masonic light. Even within this group too few give proper attention
to the Annual Report of the Grand Lodge.

RELIEF
Relief of the needy brethren, and the distressed, is the first duty o~
Masonry. The following reports indicate that some jurisdictions do not
rest at that.
•Canada, 1942 (Grand Master):
In the larger cities the practical operation of Freemasonry presents
problems that are not encountered in those centers where there is but
one Lodge or even two or three. Much valuable work is accomplished
by Masonic Boards of Relief but the work of the Toronto Board calls for
special mention and high praise. The valuable' work that this Board doe~
is of benefit not only to the Lodges and Masons of Toronto but also to
the craft throughout the jurisdiction and even beyond, in looking after
the needs of transient Masons and those in distress who seek its able and
sympathetic aid.
Colorado, 1942 (Co.mmittee):
The fund was established in 1901, the fund at that time being $1,501.45. It has grown so that in this report we are accounting for $362,430.21. During the year we have paid out $9,995.00 to 38 beneficiaries,
hailing from 29 different Lodges.
The board of trustees consists of five members, each serving five years,
appointed by the Grand Master, the term of one member expiring each
year. The work of the board is divided into five departments, the first
being general relief, the second Colorado Soldier Masons War Relief, the
third, finances, the fourth , real estate and the fifth the Jacobson Memorial
Scholarship fund.

911

The first important function of the Trustees is to take care of the
beneficiaries. In each instance when relief is required application forms
prepared by the Board have to be signed by the Master. and Secretary of
the Lodge requesting help in the taking care of its member or the dependents of a member. With the information disclosed on the written
application, together with such data as can be accumulated, the Trustees
give careful consideration to the actual requirements of the applicant for
whom relief is sought. Occasionally the Trustees do not agree with the
recommendations of the Lodge. In some instances they believe more
money will be required than the Lodge recommends. In other instances
they have reduced the amount asked for. It is the fixed opinion of t):i.e
Trustees that the applicant should feel that the relief comes directly from
the Lodge, or at least that the Lodge is the instrumentality through which
it comes, therefore, wherever it is practical, the benefit checks are sent
directly to the Secretary of the Lodge, it being hoped that the Secretary
will deposit the checks and draw the Lodge's check in favor of the beneficiary for like amount.
It is intended and expected, where a Lodge can afford to carry the
relief of a brother, it will do so. There are many instances, however,
where the Lodge is unable to do so and appeal to the Trustees of the
Benevolent Fund for assistance. However, in nearly every instance the
Trustees desire that the Lodge pay a portion of the benefit allotted, no
matter how small. This is done for two purposes : first, that the Lodge
may feel its responsibility to care for the distressed brother, widow or ,
orphans, and second, to keep the matter continually before the Lodge, so
that the Lodge will realize, as we all do, that financial help thus rendered
is only a .discharge of a part of our Masonic obligation, and we may say,
a small part, the larger part being that of personal s ervice and friendship.
In 1918, I. Ernest Newsom, the then Grand Master of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Colorado, and others sponsored the raising · of a fund known as Colorado
Soldier. Masons War Relief Fund for the purpose of affording relief and
rehabilitation of soldier Masons, who were maimed or wounded while in
any of the Armed Forces of the first World War. Considerable effort
was made in raising this money and much zeal and fervor put into it. The
sum of $40,000 was collected in small amounts from many members of the
craft. The fund was placed in the hands of a Board of Control consisting
of seven members, each one resident of different parts of the State.
While the fund was not intended to be invested, but utilized for the
purposes for which it was raised, very shortly the Board of Control
found that, because of activities of the Veterans Bureau, adequate relief,
far in excess of what this Fund had contemplated, was granted to the
veterans returning from the World War. After ten years the Board of
Control paid out slightly over $10,000, which was $5,396.38 less than the
interest derived from the investment of the Fund.
North Carolina, 1943 (Proceedings):
The . Masonic Educational Loan Fund Committee reviewed in detail
the reports submitted by the several Educational Institutions administering the Masonic Educational Loan Fund and from these reports have
condensed the following pertinent data:
To the question as to whether more money could be used to advantage
with safety, 14 report "No," 10 report "Yes," four give no reply.
To the question as to whether it is burden~ome to select really worthy
students for these loans, 24 answer "No," two answer "Yes," two make
no reply.

912

As to preference being accorded to students of Masonic kinship, 20
answer "No," six answer "Yes," two make no reply.
In view of the above, the committee deemed it advisable to make a
study of the amounts of unloaned funds at each institution for eight
preceding years-thereby securing a clear picture 6f the trend of available
unused funds at each college over that time period.
It was learned that the unloaned balances · in all the institutions in
1935 was $11,849.06, which increased to $41,040.02 in 1943. This gradually
increasing " Cash on Hand" seems to be caused largely by the fact that
funds are available from both government and other sources at interest
rates much lower than the 6 per cent rate charged on our loans, in fact
the Federal Director of Student War Loan Funds states that North
Carolina institutions have already · taken advantage of such federal funds
to the extent of $137,000.00 and the Congress has appropriated $5,000,000.00
for such loans over the United States at interest rates of 2Y, per cent and
obtainable under other far more favorable conditions than afforded under
our regulatio?s, all these facts greatly lessening the demand for our funds.

INDEX FOR

1943

JI..
Page
Accounts-Report of Committee on ................... :·.................................:........ 636
Activities-Report of Committee on.:.. :.......... ~ ................................................ 639
Adams; Chas. Albert, P . G. M.-On Public Schools Week .........~ ............ 627
Allen, Lem S., M. W.-Received ................. :·.::.......... :......................... ,............ 4~~
Addresses Grand Lodge ............................ ,................................................. 6
Alphabetical List of Lodges ~ ..·............ ,:•. ~.............................................. :.......~ .. 859

~;.'~~~~~:~~,;~'::~:~:--.-.-.=· := = = . .

=.

-~-. m

American Red Cross-Contribution to ............................................. :.............. 505
Annual Election of Officers .......................................................;........................ 730

~~~~:: ·°;:~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Appeal to limit delegates-By Grand Master. ................................................. 508

App~~~:·a~k:~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ;~~

~~:~~~·{:: : : : :: : :: : : ~:: : ::: :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : .: : : : : :: : : : : :: : :: : ~~~

Applications, Notice of-Grand Master on .................................................... 521
Appointive Officers .. _...............~ ............................................................................. 731
Appointments by Grand Master ........................................................................ 731
Audit of Accounts-Finance Committee on .................................................. 713
Audits-Grand Secretary Report...................................................................... 526
A d'
' R
t
. ·
·
. 1
736
u ~f~:nce ct~~;;;-ltt~-~- -~~::::::·:::~::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 725
On Grand Secretary .......................................................:......... - ................... 736
Austin, Claude L.-Greetings from ..................................................... ,.. :......... 496

..

B
Babcock, Byrl F .-Devotional Service by.................................................. ,..c" 497
Berkeley Clubhouse-Report of Trustees ...................................................... 653
Board of Control--Report of.......................................... ,................................. 690
Boards of Relief-Reimbursement .................................................................... 691
Finance Committee on ........................................................... _................... 716
Summary ........................................................................................................... 693
Boynton, Albert E ., P . G. M.-Greetii~gs to .................................................. 496
Branham, Col. Edward L.-Invocation by .................................................... 678
Bryan Roy C Inspector Phillipine Island Lodges-Report by .......... 550
•
.
" Committee
. '
Budget-Fmance
on ....................................................................... . 728
Buehman, Albert R., M. W .-,.Received ........................ ._.................................. 496
Addresses Grand Lodgt ......:...........................................,........................... 627
Bullock, Bert C.-Appointed Inspector .......................................................... 504
Burke, Samuel E ., P. G. M.-Motion re ' Annual Oration .......................... 550
Burrell, Chas. 0 . -Eulogy on...................................:...................................... 659
By-laws-Report of Committee on .................................................................. 638

914

INDEX

INDEX

C
Page
California Lodge No. I-Resolution by.·-··---··--·--······-·······----····----····-··········· S38
Carlson, C. A.; J r.,...--Received..........•:......................................:....................._. 496
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444--Finance Committee on Loan to.:.............. 720
Charters-Report of Committee on,....................................................... ·-···'~ 636
China-Chungking, Lodge U .D .................................................................5{)4, 636
Chungking, China-Lodge U . D.: ....................~ ...........................................-;..•. S04
Citro! Lodge-Resolution by................, .....................................................••...... S37
Clandestine Masonry-Report of Committee on ..............................:.......•..: 641
Clubhouse, U. C., . Berkeley-Report of Committee..............................:..... 6S3
Clubhouse, U . C., Los Angeles-Report of Committee.............................. 6SS
Coburn, Orville-Appointed Inspector............................................................ S04
Committee ·on Accounts-Report of...............................................................• 636
Committee on By-laws-Report 0£...................................... ~---······-·'············· 638
Committee on Constitution Observance-Report of Committee on...... S79
Committee on Credentials-Report of Committee.....,......................... S43, 806
Committee on Masonic Information........................ ~.................................... 651
Committee on Returns-Report of.._....•........:.........................................-.....•... 652
Committee on Segregation-Report of---·--·.····--···-·······························'·····'···· S24
Constitution Month Observance-Report of 'Committee on.................... S79
Finance Committee on...........................................................•................... 71S
Consolidation-Report on ......................................:......................................... ~ ... 637
Constitutional Boards....·--·--·-····---·----·---···--•·-·--·-·-·-.·-·············-····----··•·-··········-···- 804
·Contribution to American Red Cross, United Service Organization
Masons in China...............................................................:................ _....,....'. SOS
Contributions to Endowment Fund-See Statistical Appendix.
Corre~pondence Co_mmittee- Report ,of............................................ ,.........:,... 656

Page
Honorable mentio.n .... J• ••••.• ••••••••••• ••••••. •••••••••·---~····-········-······-·'----'-····-······· 624
_New Policy.......................................,........•......i . _••••.•.•... . . ... . ..•.•..•..••... - . ••...•. 6_27
Receipts for year.............................................. - .......................................... 6~6
Report of Auditors................................ J.·-·····-····-····'···········--······'-··········- 766
Testamentary gifts......................................................................................... 624
War stamps and bonds.........~---·················--·-··---······--·-·········--····::::...-........ 625
Eulogy:
By Francis V. Keesling.........................................................:.................... 673
By G. Ellsworth Meyer............. ~-·-········-·······················---·····-··············--····· 676
Expenses, Grand Tiler, Grand Organist-Finance Coinmittee on ........ 724,
Expenses of Inspectors, Reimbursement-Finance Committee on........ 719
E xtinct Lodges-List of.................................... ----------------··········-···---···-·-''--·'··--· 844

1

Cou?t~~;n~eeg~~:~: .~:-~-~---~~:::::::::::::::::::'.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::'.:::::::::: ~~~

Crim, Arthur P.-- Necrology Report....... ~ .....................,.......-.......................... 659

D
Decisions by Grand Master................................................................................ Sl 1
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence ·o n ............................................ 711
DePass, Morris B., Jr.-Appointed Inspector .............................................. S04
Greetings from·................................................................................................ 496
Devotional Service......................................:..........................................,..........:,.. 496
Dimits-Decisions by Grand Master. ............................................................... S16
Dinuba Lodge No. 385-Trial Recot:d.................. :............................... S31, 701
Directors-Masonic Clubhouses................................................... _................... 80S
Dispensations issued.........................- .............................................................SlO, 529
Dues in Trust for Members Philippine Islands-List......... __..........,....... 742

E
Election-Annual of Grand Lodge Officers .............................- ................... 730
Elective Officers of Grand Lodge since Organization .......... : ............:....... 847
Employment Service-Finance Committee on.............. :..........- ................... 716
Endowment Board Report .................................................................................. 622
Appreciation ................:...........................................- ...................................... 624
Assets
623
Beques~~-----·--·········---· ·····-- · ·--····· ···· · -········--···--······ --··· ·-- ······ ···---·- · ··--· ··--···---······· 62S
··--·-···-·········----·-·········-······--················-···-···················--····..·······-------Contributions to--See Statistical Appendix.
Disbursements ................................................................................................ 626

91S

F
Fifty-year Buttons-Individuals to whom issued......................:...............;. S26
Filmer, Wm. P arker, P. G. M.-Eulogy on.......................... ,....................... 673
Finance Committee-Report 0£....•........•...................:.................•...,................ 713
Financial Reports-Special Appendix ...•......................................•.................... 733
Fonda, Earl D.-'-Appointed Inspector.•.......................................................... 504

;~~~ii~~e G~~:geL~.g~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::: ~~g

A warded Pettus Bible..............•...............................,................................... S06
Greetings from ........................,....................................................................... 496
Grand Master on.......•............................. ~----······················-·····--·-·······--·---····· S04
For titude Lodge No. 624--Trial Record ............................................. .,.S30, 704
" F rom a Garden Wall"-G. Ellsworth Meyer ...................,...................._._ 676

G
Ganger, Ralph A.-Death ann~nced ............................................................ 496
Gaylord, Robert B., P. G. M.-.-Report by.................................................... S79
Gee, Rev. E dgar Frederick-Eulogy on ...................................................,.... 660
.General Appendix..:....................................................................... :....................... 801
Grand Chaplain--Devotional service by............'. ..............................:........ ,... 496
Grand Lecturer-Report 0£...............:..................................................•............... S33
Grand Lodge-Elective O fficers since organization ................,................... 847
Officers present...................................... :........................................................ 495
Per capita tax ................ ;.........................~..............................:._..................c 775
Per capita tax-Finance Committee on,. ......................c••••••••••••••••••••• 726
Grand Lodge of Philippine I slands-Advance for relief... ....................... 716
Grand Lodge of Scotland-Authority for relief, frorn ...........'................. 716
Grand Lodge Week Activities-,-Finance Committee on........................ 714
R eport of Committee on................................:................... ;..... ;............... ,. 639
Grand Master's Message.........................................:............................................ SOO
A1nerican Red Cross .....:.............................. :................................................. SOS
Ap peal to limit delegates ...............~-----····················-······--·':......................... S08
Appointments ··-·························--··"···-~···································--···············•······· 503
Bullock, Bert C,---·············-································································-·······~ S04
Chungking, China Lodge........................................... "'"············-·······-········· S04
Coburn, Orville........................................................_. ........................................ 504
Consolidation of L odges......•......................•............ ~---- ······· ··········· · ·-······-·· S04
Decisions ..............................•..:.................................................,...................... 511
De Pass, Morris B., Jr.....•......................................_...................................._...." S04

916

INDEX
Page

!~~~~~~~~~:~:: ::~:::~-;=-~ :; ;;=~g Ifi
K~::if~~. Ei~:rcisMv:····P··························································'·········-~·:.;,..__, 504

i~1~~~~t~~~f~~~~[~ ;~:-;):}; t;=; :.IJ~rnl

ettus Bible .................................................................................................... 506
Physical qualification .................. :............................................................... 5.18
~~~~~~~:~:~!e~s,Dbo;~~:-~-d-·M~~t~~-:...................................................... 5.06

INDEX

917

H

Pa~

Hani~:i~~ksA~; -~~:-=~~-~-~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::: ijg

Harvey, George P. G. M.-Introduced ..... :.............. :....................................... 555
Hawaiian, Ts lands Lodges .................................................................... .-.~: ............ 57 3
Grand Master on ........ :........, ...............:.......................................................... 506
Hawaiian Islands-Report by Alexander'Douglas Potts ...... :.... :................ 573
Hendricksen, A. }.-Greetings to•....... •····'·································'······················ 496
Holmes, Glen--Junior Grand Steward pro tern .............................................. 496
Hopper, Elmer M.-Appointed Inspector.. ...................................................... 504

Inspectors-Appointed ........................................................................................ 504
List of .............................................................................................................. 504

J
Jurisprudence--Report of Committee................................................................ 711

K
Keesling Francis V. P. G. M.-Appointed Grand Treasurer .................. 503
' by ·································································-·····································
'
Eulogy
673
King, Percival Simpson-Eulogy on ................................................................ 661

L
Umted Service Organization
·
505
V ~:an:ies in Office .................. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 509

~:r::;~:{:~~:f~~:::~~~::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~:::~~~: i~~

Grand Master-Presentation to .................,:... :..............................................•.... 732

g;::~ ~~sct:;~s i~~~:I~~~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::.-::::::: i~f
Grand Secretary-Grand Master refers to ................... :................. ;................ 523
Grand Secretary's Staff-Grand Master refers to .......................................... 523
Grand Secretary-Report oL .............................................................................. 524
Amendments to By-laws ......................................................~ ....................... 530
Audits .............................................................................................................. 526
Consolidation .................................................................................................. 525
Courtesy Degrees .......................................................................................... 525
Dispensations .................................................................................................. 529
Fifty-year Buttons ........................................................................................ SZ6
Life Membership Resolutions .................................................................... 528
Lodges .:............................................................................................................ 525
Membership .................................................................................................... 526
Philippine Island Lodges .............................................................................. 525
Secretaries Associations .............................................................................. 524

{;~~~i~:~~r~:~i~-~-~-~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'.::::::::::: ~~~

War Program .,.............................................................................................. 524
War Registration Service ............................................... ;............................ 525
Grand Secretary-Finance Committee on ........................................................ 725
Grand Treasurer-Report 0£................... :: ........................... ~---······················-···· 531
Grievance Committee-Report of.............................................................. 679, 701

le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371-Greetings from ............. :.......... :... 496
Life Membership Resolutions Approved .............. :... ,....................................... 528
List of lrtspectors .........'. .....,. ....................................... :........... :................. :--··········· 853

;,~;a~be~r~fa.~~---~-~~~:::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::'.:~:::~::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::: ~~~

List
Loan to Carpinteria Lodge No. 444-Finance Committee on ................... 720
Lodge Financing-Report on .............................................................................. 678
Lodges-Alphabetical list 0£........................................................... ,.:.................. 859
Consolidation of .................................................................:.....:.................... 525
List of subordinate............................................................. :....... _................... 834
List of extinct ............. _......................... ,..............................·: ..... ,....:: .............. 844
New in China ...................................... :·........................ :.•................ ,............... 525
Los Angeles Clubhouse-Report of Ttustees ................... ,......................... L 655
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674-Trial Record ....................................... :.... 530, 705

M
Masonic Clubhouse, Berkeley-Report of Trustees ...................................... 653
Masonic Clubhouse, Los Angeles-Report on ........•..................................... 655
Masonic Clubhouses-Finance Committee on ....................................... :........ 724
Masonic Employment Service-Finance Committee on .........•.................... 716
Masonic History--Finance Committee on ...................................................... 714
Report of Committee on ............................................-. ................................. 643 ·
Masonic Homes, contribution-Grand Master on ....................................... :.; 522
Masonic Homes-Annual Report .......................... :............................................ 582 ·
Alumni in Armed· Forces:··--····· ···:···:·· ··-~·-··'···· ············ ··· ··· ···· ··········· ······584~5~~
Covina-Report of Supermtendent ............................................................ 60
Admissions .......................................................................... ..................... 615
Admissions and discharges ......... :.................................................. 614; 615
Alumni· Evaluations .............·.:.·.....·........................' .. :... ,..........• .'....•........... 611
Alumni in service .....·'--···-·-·········'···,-'.: ... ~ ...• .-._:;_._ ...;... ~. :.:.58,4, 587, 611
ChildreIJ. in Home...... .,,.,.,................................... ~,. ...... ,...... ,....-....... ,.... 612 •

918

INDEX
Page
Christmas entertainment, cash donation ...,........................'.............. 6.18
pepartures ................................................:.....:....................................... 614
Donations ................................................................................................ 615

~:.~ll~~:e:t -~~·;r-~~~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

. Entertainment Fund contributions.................................................... 618

~:~~~ni~~j··~~;k..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Moral and religious traini.n g....•........................................................... 610
Outside relief .......................................... :............................................... 614
Rationing ....................................... v························:................................. 609
Visitations ................................................................................................ 617
Decoto-Report of Superintendent............................................................. 591
Admitted during year............................................................................ 599
Age groups .............................................................................................. 591
Christmas entertainment, cash donations ........................................ 604
Departed during year............... ~·························································· 600
Died during year .................................................................................. ~. 600
Donations ..............•................................................................................. 601
Employees ................................................................................................ 609
Labor problems ...................................................................................... 591
Names of Residents .............................................................................. 593
Number of Resiaents ............................................................................ 593
Visitations ................................................................................................ 602
Excerpts from letters.................................................................................... 585
Finances .......................................................................................................... 590
Film.er, Wm. P., P. G. M.-Appreciation................................................ 583
Health at Decoto:......, ..................................;................................................. 590
Per capita cost..............................:................................................................. 584
Population ........................................................................................................ 583
Recommendation ......................................................................................:... 590
Report of Auditors ........................................................................................ 747·
Residents ............................,.............................................................................. 583
Summer Camp ................................................................................................ 584
Superint~ndents-Appreciation of ............................................................ 583
Masonic Homes-Finance Committee on..............•......................................... 725
Grand Master on............................................................................................ 522
Masonic Homes Endowment Board-Finance Committee on................ 721
Report of ........................................................................................................ 622
Masonic Information-Report of Committee on............................................ 651
Finance Committee on.........................~·········· ..,:..........:.............•..: ............. 726
Masonic Temple Association.......:Report of.......................................: ...............: 640
Master of Ceremonies-Dana R. Weller, P. G. M. appointed .................... 731
McFadzean, Daniel-Appointed Grand Bible Bearer.................................. 504
Members. of Grand Lodge, Died during year-List of.............:.................,· 665
Membership Statistics-Grand Lodge..............................................,................. 526
Menorah Lodge No. 623-Trial Record................~.'........:.........................531, 799
Meyer, G. Ellsworth-Eulogy by...................................................................... 676·
Mohr, Rudolph, Jr.-Reports on activities...................................................... 639
Morton, Matthew, Jr.--'War Service Committee................................, ........... 569
War service report by............................................................... r··················· 569
Mossholder, William ].-Eulogy on.................................................................. 663
Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18-Finance Committee ·on.......~··················· 721

INDEX

919

N
Page
Necrology-Report of Committee on ...........................~ .................................... 659
Nelson, Edward G.-Appointed Inspector ...................................................... 504
0
Oakland Lodge No. 188-Trial Record ............................................530-531, 680
Objection to Advancement-Grand Master on ...- ......................................•.. 519
Occidental L odge No. 22-Trial Record ..................................................530, 680
Officers-Elective of Grand Lodge since organization.................:.............. 847
Oration-Annual .................................................................................................... 543.

p
Pacific Lodge No. 136-Resolution by~.........:..... ;................., ......................... 537
Palestine Lodge No. 351-Trial Record ........................,........................... 530, 680
Paulsen, Arthur-Grand Oration by ................................................................ 543
Past Grand Masters-Pre.sent.............................................................•.............. 496
Portraits of preceding..........................................................................!'. ••••.••• 719
Pay of Members-Report of Committee..................................................642, 653
Finance Committee on............................................................. ~ ................... 724
Pettus Bible Award................................................................................................ 506
Philippine Islands Lodges-Repor t on............................................................ 550
Dues in trust.'.................................,................................................................. 525
Report on ...................................:..................................................................... 550
Physical Qualifications-Grand Master on...................................................... 518
Pierson, Ralph K.-Segregation Committee.................................................. 524
Policy and General Purposes-Report of Committee on .......•.............680, 688
Portraits of Preceding Grand Masters-Finance Committee on.............. 719
Portrait of Grand Master-Finance Committee on'...................................... 718
Potts, Alexander Douglas-Repor t on Hawaiian Island Lodges.............. 573
Grand Master refers to........................................................................, .......... 506
Presentations:
Arthur S. Crites. lapel pins .......................................................................... 731
Chas. Albert Adams insignia........................................... ~···········-.··········· 731
Leis by Alexander Douglas Potts:........................................•...., ..............: 579
Past Grand Masters' apron .......................................................................... 732
Public Schools Week-Report of Committee on ......................................,... 627

R
Recommendatio,ns by Grand Master.................................................................. 520
Report of Auditors.....'::...............................................:.................. 736, 742, 747, 766
Reports of Committees:
Accounts .......................:......................:........•..........•....................................... 636
Activities ...................................... :....................................·:..........................;··· 639
Board of Control-Report 0£...................................................................... 690
Appropriations ......................................................................................... ~. 692
Employment service ............................................................................ 692

~~~i~:rsse-;;;~·~t~···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Summary of Boards of Relief........................ :...............,...................... 693
By-laws ····························'·· ·········································'···································· 638
Charters ..............................·.......................................................................... ~ ... 636
Clandestine 1fasonry ........................................ ! ................... . ....... . . .......... .... 6.41
Constitution Month Obsei;vance.................................... :........................... 579

~~;~:~fa~~e~~~. :::::::::::::=::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Endowment Board-Report of....................., ...:...........:.............. ,............... 622

920

INDEX
~m~:

Budget ...................................................................................................... 728
Carpinteria Lodge No. 44~Loan to.........................•.•......•......_..... 720
Correspondence Committee ·····························.··············•···················· 715
Endowment Board ·······················~······················································· 721
Expenses of Grand Tiler, Grand Organi§t.......................................... 724
Grand Lodge Week Activities..- ..........................,.........., ................... :...... 714
Grand Secretary's Report .............•.................................•..................:. 725
Grand Treasurer's Report ..............................................................:..... 717
Masonic Clubhouses .........................................................•.................... 724
Masonic. History ·······························································~·-···'············· 714
Masonic Homes .................. .._....................................... :.........:............. 725
Masonic Information ···························-···-········································ 726
Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18.................·-·················~··············~---· 721
Pay of members ........................................................... :.....................:.... 724
Per capita levy, Masonic Homes..............................:......................... 726
Per capita tax.....................•........................·...................... :..................... 726
Portrait of .Grand Master.................................................................... 718
Portraits of preceding Past Grand Masters.................................... 719
Reimbursements of Boards of Relief................................................ 716
Reimbursement of expense of Inspectors ...................................... 719
Salaries ·························································································-··········· 722
Traveling expenses of Grand Lecturer and Assistants·................ 719
Traveling expenses of Grand Master................................................ 718
Unpaid Grand Lodge dues .........:..........:..:;.............................•........... 720
Grand Lodge Week Activities........:......;..... :....:.............:•........................ 639
Grievance ..........:............:............................................................................679-701
Jurisprudence-Report of Committee on.......................................•.......... 711
Amending Sections ···············'···--······-···································298-308, 712
Certification of Secretaries .................................................................. 711
Dispensations ............................................-.............................................. 711
Grand Master's decisions ...:...................................... - ...........:.............. 711
Masonic Homes contributions............................................................ 712
Monthly membership returns ..:··························································· 711
Resolutions ...................·........,.......- .........................:................................ 711
Lodge financing ............................................................................................ 678
Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley.................................................................. 653
Masonic Clubhouse at Los Angeles................_. ..............................:.......... 655
Masonic history ..................................................................................... 1...., • .• 643
Masonic information ................................................ ~---····························•··· 651
Masonic Temple Association .......................................................~ .............. 640
Necrology ······································'································································· 659
Pay of members...................•.... :..........................·........................................... 64?
Policy and general purposes........................................................................ 680
Certification of Secretaries............................................................. :...... 682
Constitution month observance...................................... :................... 688
Foreign jurisdictions ..................................................•....................•.... 682
Hawaiian Islands districts ...................................,.................... - .......... 689
History Committee ................................................................................ 687
Investment of Grand Lodge Funds.................................................. 680
Jurisdictional limit ................................................................................ 685
Lodge contributions ...........................................................:.................. 681
Masonic Homes contribution .............................................................. 685
Notification on applications...........................................................:...... 686
Physical qualification ............................................................................ 684
Post-War program ................................................................................ 689

921

INDEX

p~

Page

1

~:~~t~t~e;t~~s? ~;s~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Thirty-five years membership:........................................................... 682

~~.~P5~~:;~'.': _: ~ ::

- -=-~: iE

~~~~~~at;i~;:~~~~-~ltt~~:::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Special taxation .............................................................................................. 657
U. C. Berkeley Clubhouse.......................,.............................................;······ 65~

~:~~:I:t~t~~~E:.::.: :. := : ::

:

:.~-~:. lil

Report of Finance Committee on..........................................................:... 725
Report of Grand Treasurer .................................................................................. 531
Report of Finance Committee on..............................:............................... 717
Report on Philippine Islands Lodges.......................................................:....... 550
Resolutions:
539

!~i~i~~i:~1~:-=:~~::;:~ ~'. '. :: : ~: : l~

Southl;nd Lodge No. 618.......................................................................,.. 540

Rotu~~::~~m~:~:'~o:~'.~°:':~'.: :, :::: '

-::: :~:: : :;5:~ 1: 7~ 0!

Rising Light Lodge No. 397-1nal Record .......................................... 3 ,
Ritual Committee-Report 0£..............:............................................._;··············· 659
Riverdale Lodgt No. 496-Consolidation:................................,...................·..... 63~
Grand Master on ................................................................................:........... 50
Robb, Kenneth M., M. W.-Received.........................................................:.. 4~~
Addresses Grand Lodge..................................•............................................. 5
Russian River Lodge No. 181-Trial Record ...................:.................... 530, 680

s

Salaries-Finance Committee on........................•............................................... -~~~
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348--Trial Record ...................................... 5~0,
Sanford, Leslie M.-Received..•....................:.................................................... 49~
Savage Henry S.-Appointed Inspector........................................................ 50
Schult~, Lieut. Helen:_Introduced.............................................................. :... 622

~:~:~:!f~~~~~%i~~~~~= ·-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Sequoia Lodge No. 349-Trial Record· report ........................................ 531, 70
Shepherd, Chas. A.-Gra~d Master refers to ................................................ 5g6
Siems, Edward A.-Appomt~d Inspector........................................................ 5 4
Skinner, Edmund B.-Appomted Inspector.................................................. 504
Smith James Dustin-Greetings from............................................................ 496
Southiand Lodge No. 618-Resolutions by.................................................... 54~
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123-Grand Master refers to ...·-······························ 50

922

INDEX

Page
Special Appendbt......................................................:.... .,..::..•............ _:....- .••..•...... 733
Statistical Appendix................................... ,~·-··················~···············•········•-•<·····-- 777
Special Committees.................................................. - ............................................ 803
Special Ritual Committee ............................................................................ .: ...... 540
Special Taxation Committee-Report of .......... ~ .........•....................... ~ ...,........ 6.57
Statistical Appendix ..........................................................................................•... 777
Standing Committees ............................................................................................ 802

T
Texas-Grand Lodge on Greetings from ................................ :................. ,..... 496
Thompso.n, William-Segregation Committee ...................................... '.......: 524
Townsley, Paul-Segregation Committee .............................. .'......................... 524
Traveling Expense of Grand Lecturer and AssistantsFinance Committee on ...................·-···························································· 719
Traveling Expense of Grand Master-Finance Committee on ................ 718
Trial records reported ................................................................................ ,......... 530
Trustees of Masonic Homes-Report of............:....... :......................,............ 582

u
U. C., Berkeley Clubhouse-Report of Trustees ............................................ 653
U. C., Los Angeles Clubhouse-Report of ...............................................:.•.. 655
Unfinished business .............................................................................................. 525
United Service Organization-Contribution to ................... :........................ 505
Union Lodge No. 58-Trial Record ........................................................ 530, 680
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues-Financl! Committe\! on ................................ 720

v
Vacancies in Office-Grand Master on ............................................................ 509
Veteran Buttons-Individuals to whom issued ............................................ 526
Visitations by Grand Master .............................................................................. 500

w
War ·Registration Service. .............. ."............................................... :'........:........... 5:25
War Relief Fund ....•............................: ........................................................... 505, 507
War Relief Fund-Report of Committee ....................... ,........................., ...... 555
War Relief Fund-Detailed statement of Lodge participation ................ 556
War Service Committee-Report of.................................................................. 569
Warlow, Chester H.-Grand Lecturer's Report ....... :.................................. 533
Warren, Earl, P. G. M., War Relief Fund-Report of............................ 555
Watson, W. C.-Received .............................................. ,..................................... 496
Weeks, Charles H.'-Received'. ........................... ,............................................... 496
Welcome Lodge No. 255-Consolidation of.................................................. 637
Grand Master on............................................................................................ 504
Weller, Dana R., P. G. M.-Appointed Master of Ceremonies ............ 731
Wright, George H. B.-Eulogy on .................................................................. 662

y
Yount Lodge No. 12-Resolution by .......................... :................................... 537

