FHA.Nil HAR WELL, JR.
GRAND MASTER
On October 16, 1953, following the unanimous election by his Breth~
ren, Frank Harwell, Jr., was installed as Grand Master of Masons in
California and served with distinction until he surrendered the office to
his successor on October 15, 1954. Brother Harwell was the 88th Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge of California and will rightfully take his
pface with his distinguished predecessors who have served the Grand

~~~.

FRANK HARWELL. JR.
Grand Master
1953-1954

.

Frank Harwell, Jr., was born October 4, 1898, at La Grange, Geor~
gia, son of The Honorable Frank Harwell, member of the judiciary of
the State of Georgia, and Ruth Lovejoy Harwell. True to the tradition
of his parents and his background he was educated in the public schools
of La Grange, later entering the University of Georgia in the Class of
1920. He was a member of Kappa Alpha Fraternity during his years at
the university, which he left to enlist in the United States Infantry, where
he served as a Second Lieutenant in World War I.
Married on March 25, 1925, to Virginia Boston of Marietta, Geor~
gia, the home life of the Harwells has been a happy one for them and a
delightful one for their friends. To them were born three daughtersNancy. Virginia and Patricia-all of whom are now married and two
granddaughter s are the delight of Frank and Virginia Harwell.
Brother Harwell's Masonic career spans only a quarter of a century,
but it has been filled with activity from the time he was raised on April
23, 1929, to the present. He served as Treasurer of Beverly Hills Lodge
No. 528 , in 1930, and became its Master in 1935. His first call to service
in the Grand Lodge was as Inspector in September, 1936, in which ca~
pacity he served until April. 1948, when he was appointed Assistant
Grand Lecturer.
During this same period he served as a Trustee of the Masonic
Homes of California.and as a member of the Special Committee on Masonic Homes Applications and Admissions. He was distinguished as a
ritualist and is perhaps best known in that capacity, but his service to
the Masonic Homes of California was no less outstanding.
His election as Junior Grand Warden in October, 1950, was hailed
by his friends throughout the jurisdiction, as were his successive elec~
tions to Senior Grand Warden in October, 1951. Deputy Grand Master
in October, 1952, and Grand Master in October, 1953, He is a 32°
Mason being a member of the Los Angeles Bodies of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite.
Upon completion of his service with . the United States forces in
World War I he entered the investment banking business, and his entire

professional life has been in that field. Following his training in the City
of New York he returned to Atlanta, Georgia, removing from there to
Los Angeles in 1927 where he still resides and where he is well known
and highly respected in investment banking circles.
For many years he has been a member of the Board of Vestrymen
of All Saints' Episcopal Church in Beverly Hills and has served with
distinction not only in the activities of his own church but in the diocese
of which it is a member.
After his family and his Lodge, Frank's great loves are golfing, fishing and the outdoors in general. There is no more delightful companion
on a golf course or fishing stream than Frank Harwell, as will be attested
by anyone who has had the good fortune to spend hours with him hitting
a ball or whipping a stream. His clear and true tenor voice has delighted
his locker room companions on more than one occasion and made a
lasting memory of a night around a mountain campfire.
Among his great contributions during his year as Grand Master was
approving and supporting the California Freemason which filled a real
need and was well-received. His courageous handling of the difficult
problem of publications trading on the name of Masonry made possible
the making of long strides in clearing up that perennially bad problem.
Few Grand Masters have travelled farther or given more personal attention to the demands of the office and the needs of the Craft than did
Frank Harwell. Jr., and he will long be remembered for the effective
and devoted service which he rendered.

I, LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of the M:.w:. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one-hundred fifth
Annual Communication, commenced ·at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday, the 11th day of October, A. L. 5954, and terminated on Friday,
the 15th day of October, A. L. 5954.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M.".W.".Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary, this first day of November, in the year of Light, five
thousand nine hundred and fiftyfour.

PROCE EDING S

of

THE M. ·. W. ·. GRA ND LODGE
of

1J1ret auh J\rrtptrh ita.anu.a
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFOR NIA
AT ITS

105th ANNUA L COMMU NICATIO N
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCI SCO
COMMENC ING ON

Monday, October 11, A. D. 1954, A. L. 5954
AND TERMINAT ING ON

Friday, October 15, A. D. 1954, A. L. 5954
Copyrioht 195~
Printed In the United States of America. All riohts in this book are reserved.
in •nl manner whatsoever without written
reproduced
be
may
thereof
No pert
permission from the Grand Lodge of California, except that quotations may
Grand Jurisdictions es have been
other
such
be embodied in reviews by
recognized officially by this Grand Lodge. For information address Grand
Se<:retary, 25 Van Ness Avenue, Son Francisco 2, Calif.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7

ONE HUNDRED FIFTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One*Hundred Fifth Annual
Communication in the Civic Auditorium, San Francisco, on Monday,
October 11, A. L. 5954, at lO:OOA. M.
Roll Call disclosed the presence of the following:
OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LoDGE
M. ·.w.·.FRANK HARWELL, JR•................. c•••••• ~---················Grand Master
R:.W:.HENRY C. CLAUSEN ................................Deputy Grand Master
R:.W:.EDGAR V. STEWART, JR •................•......•....Senior Grand Warden
R.'.W,'.L. HAROLD ANDERSON ..............................Junior Grand Warden
v:.W.'.LLOYD E. WILSON, P. G. M •.............................. Grand Secretary
v.·.w.·.ELBERT w. DAVIS................................................Grand Lecturer

V. ·.REVEREND KERMIT CASTELLANOS ...................... Grand Chaplain
W. ·.CLARE B. CAMPBELL.. ..........................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. '.RALPH M. FooTE ................................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.ARTHUR J. KAHN ................................Assistant Grand Lecturer

. M1zE..........·..............................Assistant Grand Lecturer

w.· .RAYMOND G. TAYLOR.............: ........... .Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. '.GUY B.

W.'.CLARK H. SHAW................................. .Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.HERBERT A. HuEBNER............................................Grand Orator

Treasurer
W. ·.HENRY D. 0LIPHANT....................... .Assistant Grand Secretary
W.'.KEITH W. ScHLAEGEL.. ......................................Grand Marshal
W ;·.CHARLES FRANK MAYNARD....................Grand Standard Bearer
W.'.MARTIN DE HAAN ................, .....................Grand Sword Bearer
W. '.OTHO STEWART: .............................................. Grand Bible Bearer
w.·.N. CARL PETERS ........................................Senior Grand Deacon
W.'.BEN L. IRWIN.............................................. Junior Grand Deacon
w:.RoBERT A. SMITH....................................Senior Grand Steward
w:.ALBERT Loms CLAYTOR.......... ........ , .......Junior Grand Steward
W.'.EDWARD H. P1TCHER... ................. .................... Grand Pursuivant
w.·.CHARLES E. ANDERSON ......................................Grand Organist
W.'.ALVIN A. HORWEGIL ................................................. Grand Tiler
W.'.PAUL A. PFLUEGER..........................Assistant Grand

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAl.IFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS

DEVOTIONAL SERVICES
THE LIFE OF THE SPIRIT

8

M:.w:.OscAR LAWLER
M ... w ...CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M.'.W.'.ARTHUR S. CRITES
M.'.W.'.GEORGE L. }ONES
M.·.w.·:CHARLEs M. WoLLENBERG
M.'.W.'.ROLLIE w. MILLER

9

Very Reverend KERMIT CASTELLANOS, Grand Chaplain
"Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be
always acceptable in thy sight, 0 Lord. my strength and my redeemer."
THE SPIRIT OF MAN IS THE CANDLE _O F THE LORD
PROVERB xx:27

M.'.W.'.LEON 0. WHITSELL
M.'.W.'.LLOYD E. WILSON
M.'.W.'.LESLIE E. WooD

M:.w:.JoHN R. MooRE
M:.w:.EDwARD H. SrnMs
M.·.w.·.ELLswoRTH MEYER
M.'.W.'.ARTHUR PAULSEN
M.·.w.·.Loms

c. DRAPEAU.

M.'.W.'.ARTHUR M. WARREN

1, 173 officers and representatives from 604 Chartered Lodges and
fifteen Lodges under dispensation, and 971 Past Masters, and fourteen
distinguished guests from other jurisdictions. were reported as present,
and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample form, following which the Flag of Our Country was received.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of Assistant Grand
Treasurer, Paul A. Pflueger, to fill the office of Grand Treasurer, and
the appointment of Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren to serve as
Assistant Grand Treasurer. The Grand Master announced the appointment of Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren and of Worshipful Leo
E. Anderson to serve on the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
He also announced the appointment of Worshipful Emil W. Trefts and
of Worshipful Robert J. Myers to serve on the Committee on Credentials, and the appointment of Worshipful William F. Jebe to serve on the
Committee on Pay of Members.
All of the above appointments were made by the Grand Master for
this Communication only.

Most Worshipful Sir,
Members of the Grand Lodge of California,
Delegates to the 105th Annual Communication ·
of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge Free
and Accepted M asorts of the State of California
Visiting brethren of distinction,
It is strange that one can have the mingled feelings that I do this
morning standing before this magnificent gathering of men. It is with
a feeling of human inadequacy-it is with a feeling of humility that the
Grand Master should have appointed me to such a distinguished office
in the Grand Lodge, and it is with a feeling of deep gratitude that I have
been privileged to see and experience so much of the fraternal fellowship
of the Masons of this state. I will long cherish these new friendships and
associations.
I have seen the true workings of true Masons-men dedicated to God
and to their fellowmen. These are the ancient landmarks of the craftthe Fatherhood of God, and the Brotherhood of Man.
When a temple is dedicated, the Grand Chaplain prays. "Enable
us to prove to mankind by our actions that our lives are sincerely dedicated to Thee and to the relief and well-being of our fellow creatures."
Again the ancient landmarks. Again the recognition that what is
important is a man's inner life-his spirit. A right relationship to Goda right relationship to one's fellowmen, pre-supposes a right spirit within.
The psalmist, many years ago prayed, "Create in me a clean heart,
0 God; and renew a right spirit within me." Solomon who ordered the
building of the temple at Jerusalem, in the collection of Proverbs, left
for us the words I've chosen for the text:
"The Spirit of Man is the candle of the Lord." ( 20: 27).
And it is about the Spirit of Man that I want to talk this morning.
There is a spirit that I have seen this past year as I've sat in Lodge ·
Rooms in many places-and as I've sat at innumerable dinners before-dinners of Swiss steak, or Roast Beef. or Turkey, or Ham, or Fried
Chicken, or Fish. What we ate was of little importance (except at the

11

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

moment-it was all good, some of it better )-what was important was
the spirit that one felt-a spirit of cordiality, a spirit of enthusiasm, a
spirit of pleasure in a work well done, a spirit of enterprise and of co~
operation and of achievement.
Such a spirit is pleasant to encounter. One senses it--one doesn't
see it. Sometimes in a church building one feels it-he knows there have
been people praying there-that God is real in that place-it is like
something that passes through a congregation-I've felt it in my work
with children as they've prayed for a sick friend--once on a visit to a
camp some of them showed me a field of tall, green wheat-and as I
looked the wind passed over it--one saw its impact on the wheat-and
the children had named it, "The Field Where God Walks."

-I am thinking about the Life of the Spirit in each of us-in any one
of us.

10

And the spirit of a Lodge-the Spirit of a Christian Church or a
Jewish Temple isn't achieved by the magical wave of someone's hand,
or the inspired leadership of a great person-no, it is the sum of the
spirits of many people--our country is great, not because of one, or a
100, or a 1,000 but because of millions who love America-who want
and live and fight and die to keep it free. Men and women and boys and
girls. It is education and freedom, it is opportunity and religion. "One
nation under God" we say. On our currency we stamp and print "In
God We Trust." These are not intended to be empty words-Well~
turned phrases-no they were written because they expressed what the
people of this nation believed. America under God. Liberty, but not
license. Simply put-when one learns to play tennis, or golf, or the
piano, or to swim, or sail a boat-he first learns the laws-he profits by
the experience and wisdom of others-he doesn't throw it all aside and
say "I will play tennis or golf or the piano my way." He applies himself
to master the techniques and the skills of others-he binds himself in
obedience to convention and practice and routine until such obedience
becomes habit. And within that he finds full · expression. And so, too,
with religion-in our Protestant Episcopal Prayer Book we have a
phrase "whose service is perfect freedom" (and in Spanish translation
that phrase has exclamation points before and behind to accentuate its
importance). "One Nation under God"-that means what it sounds like
or we shouldn't say it. If we say it and don't mean it we are indulging
in hypocrisy of the worst sort that almost borders on national treason.
Or so too with the words and forms of Masonic ritual-they are
after all only expressions and symbols of the inner spirit of Masonry--of
men who are Masons. The theological definition of a sacrament is "that
it is an outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace."
Many things are sacramental-the handshake of a brother, the American
flag, the Lodge dinner where Masons eat together.
But these expressions of the spirit are in the aggregate-they are the
sum total of the spirit of many. And my message is primarily personal

There are many parts to human life-and there are many ways to
describe it. A man is the total of many things each of them importantone has a body-it is important--one keeps it clean--one protects it and
takes care of it--one eats regularly that it may be strong and function
pt>perly-when it's ill or injured one's living is seriously affected. It is
seen-it can be touched and recognized. It is tangible and obvious.
One also has a mind-in one's youth it is trained in habits and
routines of thinking. It has fed into it in small doses over the years of
one's schooling a vast body of facts that the human race has come to
accept and call education. Most of the activity of this mind takes place
in the brain which is located in our heads. It can be examined in the
operating room. It is tangible and definite. Some of us have learned
to use it well-others not quite so well.
But there is another part to a human being, to a person, that I want
to talk about. We call it the spirit. But this is intangible-we can't see
it or touch it. A surgeon can't examine it on an operating table. But
it's there. And it affects very definitely our bodies and our minds. One
may have a splendid body. and a well trained mind-but if he hasn't also
a good spirit, he is only 2/3 of a person. One can get along with just
a body and a bare minimum of mind and spirit-and most of us know
such creatures on screen or in sports magazines. Or one may have an
extensive edlolcation with a string of degrees and scholastic achievements,
but be completely lacking in a spiritual relationship to God or his fellow~
men, and of such I say he is not truly a complete person. One can get
along, often quite successfully on a partial development-just as a 4
motored plane can limp along with only 3 (or even 2) motors turning.
But it isn't flying at full efficiency or comfort.
And there are many people who limp through life only partially
developed because they have never done anything about their spirits.
They often have happiness, they often have success, perhaps even fame
-but they are not full human beings-not complete persons.
"The Spirit of man is the candle of the Lord." It is in the spirit that
a man has his deepest relationship to Almighty God. The man who is
in touch with the Father is directed by an inner compulsion-by an inner
drive. Words, ceremonies, symbols-are outer expressions of an inner
Reality.
You can't examine the spirit of a man, but you can sense it. Some
people are gracious-some aren't. That's a fine word. It has to do with
mercy, with kindness, with virtue, with courteousness, with sincerity and
naturalness -you can't force yourself to be natural- that would be
unnatural-a contradiction in term.

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

One doesn't wake up in the morning and say "Today I will be
happy." and be happy just because he said it. No, happiness is a result
it isn't automatic. So, too, one doesn't say "I will have a good spirit
today." No, the spiritual life also is a result. It isn't automatic. It is
related to the simple things-truth, love, affection, unsel.8shness, honesty,
purity. The mind isn't developed in a day-nor does the body achieve
maturity over night-no, they are both fed-one with knowledge, one
with food. And so too, with the spirit-it must be fed to grow. You
won't get it in a flash, in a moment. It must be trained and nurtured.
1. On our altars is the Great Light of Masonry. It was carried today
in procession by the Grand Bible Bearer. That's fine, it is right to treat
ft with such acclaim, but it is the Great Light not only for the Lodge-and not because it is a venerated volume---:but it is the Great Light for
each of us. We describe it as the rule and guide of our faith. We can
wax eloquent about its sacred pages-but do we read it? (Perhaps such
a question isn't quite fair for the Grand Chaplain to ask.) But this is a
sermon. A sermon is different from an address or a lect:\lre. An address
or lecture presents a subject objectively and generally dispassionate lybut a sermon should disturb--someo ne said it is like a "knock at the
door." As a boy I remember the comic strip, the Katzenjammer Kidsremember them? One of their favorite tricks was to put a burr under the
saddle of the Colonel's horse. And when he jumped into the saddle the
horse ran away. Well, in some such way a sermon should disturb us,
too. Are we feeding our spiritual life by reading God's word.
2. A Mason prays. In the Lodge no important undertaking, no
public function is ever undertaken without invoking the aid of deity.
Is this a form of words devoid of spirit-is it rank hypocrisy? Or is the
Chaplain talking to God? Bringing the Lodge and God into a vital
relationship. Is every one aware of God's Presence there? Is it a two
way relationship from man to God, from God to man?
How many there are in our fraternity who reach out hands of faith
to a Heavenly Father, in sorrow, in trouble and distress and need, who
seek comfort and strength and help and purpose. We live in a world
of problems. In a world filled with pessimism and negative outlookbut such is not for the Mason, the religious man. God is still the God
of the whole earth-of everyone who turns to Him and keeps in touch
with Him. The second disturbing question-Do you pray? Daily?
Once when I was a boy my father let me fish from a row boat tied
to the end of a dock. After awhile I tired of it and pulled on the line
that moored the rowboat to the dock. As I pulled, the dock came over
to me (it seemed to my childish eyes). But of course as I pulled the boat
was drawn to the dock. So with our prayer, not that we pull God over
to us to do what we ask Him, but that we are pulled over to Him. We
don't change His Plan, He changes us!

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

13

3. And thirdly, our fellowship with other religious people. Our
Christian church, our Jewish Temple, the fellowship of believing people.
Are we a part of it? Those who seek to nurture the life of the spirit.
It helps us-we help it. I came into my church the other day alone and
knelt to pray. God was there and very close. And the other day the
church was filled and again I knelt to pray, and God was there and very
close. I need both experiences. I need to pray alone-I need to pray
with other people.
A new darkness threatens to cover the earth, and the candles of
many have burned out. Sure, these are serious day!--lbut God said,
"Let there be Light"-and there was light.
Rufus Jones in New Eyes For Invisibles tells a storyOne of the monks of the desert came to his Abbot one day and said,
"I don't know what is wrong with me, but something is wrong. I keep
all the rules. I fast at all appointed times. I pray according to the pre~
scribed regulations for perfect monks. And yet I am a complete failure.
What is the matter with me?"
The wise old Abbot held up his .8ngers to the sun and showed the
monk the rblood~red light between his .8ngers and said, "You must
become a flame of .Ore."
The spirit of a man can be dwarfed, and puny and crabbed. Or it
can be full and rich and free. "The spirit of a man is the candle of the
Lord." A candle burns-it gives light by burning. We are purified. We
sing a hymn with the words "Thy dross to consume, thy gold to re.One."
It is our spirit God sets on fire. Through us He can give light. Through
us He can show Himself to the world. A candle and light go together.
When we are brought from darkness to light, it is the Great Light of
Masonry we see on the altar. Light guides, it rbeckons, it warms, it gives
security, it attracts, it stabs awake, it shows us the shadows. Every day
a vast body of water is raised in the central ocean many feet above the
surrounding water and held suspended until it breaks on the shores and
makes our tides. It is lifted by the invisible attraction of the moon-all
the wild waters heaving from pole to pole rise obedient to that force.
In all lands. under all skies the invisible power of God lifts human lives
above the level of the surrounding life.
AU life finds its fulfillment in God. Only he truly lives who serves
God in Body, Mind and Spirit. Whatever path or vocation or work he
follows he can find freedom and purpose and peace. When John Oxen~
ham wrote of Jesus of Nazareth he said--and would that I or any of us
could earn the right to it for our EpitaphThis was the life that God had called Him to,
And all that He could give was yet too small;
He gave His rbest, His fullest. noblest best,
and left the rest with God.

14

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DISTINGUISHE D GUESTS
The following distinguished guests were separately introduced, received with Grand Honors, and after being greeted at the altar by the
Grand Master, were escorted to seats in the East.
M.·.w.·.Hugh Reid, Grand Master of Masons in Virginia
M.·.w.·.Roy McNeal, Grand Master of Masons in Oregon
M. ·. W. ·.Lester Hitt, Grand Master of Masons in Washington
M. ·. W. ·.Hugh Wilson, Grand Master of Masons in Nevada
M. ·. W. ·.Larry Brainard, Grand Master of Masons in Idaho
M. ',W.'.Lewis Neeb, Grand Master of Masons in Arizona
The distinguished guests listed below were received with the Public
Grand Honors and conducted to seats in the East:
M.'.W.'.FranklinC . Howell, P. G. M., Grand Treasurer, Oregon
M:.W:.Harry D. Proudfoot, P. G. M., Grand Secretary, Oregon
M:.W:.William F. Holman, P. G. M., Minnesota

M:.W:.Will H. Taylor, P. G. M., Philippine Islands

R. ·. W. ·.Felix A. Lenhart, Past Grand Treasurer of Czechoslovakia
and special representative of the Grand Lodge of France to this Communication.
The following members of the Supreme Court of the State of California were received as a group with the Public Grand Honors and were
seated in the East:
W.'.John W. Shenk, P. M., South Pasadena Lodge No. 367
W.'.Jesse W.Carter, P. M., Western Star Lodge No. 2
B. Rey Schauer, a member of West Lake Lodge No. 392
At the invitation of the Grand Master Brother Lenhart addressed
Grand Lodge and on behalf of the Grand Lodge of France presented
a beautiful memorial volume commemorating the Masons of France who
gave their lives or otherwise suffered in the cause of Freedom. The
Grand Master accepted the volume with an appropriate expression of
thanks.
Brother Lenhart then read a letter of special credentials from the
Grand Lodge of France requesting him to present on behalf of that
Grand Lodge a medal prepared for Brother Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand
Secretary, commemorating his election in December 1953 as the first
honorary member of the Grand Lodge of France. Brother Lenhart then
spoke as follows:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

15

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Frank Harwell, Jr.,
Most Worshipful. Right Worshipful, Worshipful Sirs,
And You All My Brethren:
May I first of all bring to You, Most Worshipful Grand Master and
to all your Brethren of the Grand Lodge of California, the greetings
of Most Worshipful Louis Doignon, Grand Maitre de la Grande Loge
de France and thank you for your courtesy to permit me to make the
presentation to Brother Lloyd E. Wilson, your Grand Secretary. While
in Paris last spring, Most Worshipful Grand Master Doignon asked
me to take back to California a medal to present to the Most Worshipful
Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of California.
Before my departure I took the medal and asked Grand Secretary
Charles Riandey to send me credentials and a letter from the Grand
Loge de France for Brother Wilson, who until now was informed only
.unofficially of his being named the first Honorary Member of the Grand
Loge de France, which action took place December 5, 1953.
With your kind permission Most Worshipful Sir, I shall read the
letter of the Grand Loge de France to our dear Brother Grand Secretary.
"Right Worshipful and very dear Brother Wilson:
"The constant attention and your great interest, shown always
towards the Grande Loge de France and to their members. has found
our most lively recognition. On the other hand your important work in
the affairs of .the Grand Lodge of California, with which we are honored to be in fraternal relations and your devotion to the Scottish Rite,
which we practice, have established between us a relationship more than
fraternal.
"The Grande Loge de France had the desire to emphasize those
relations by dedicating to you a medal, to show our appreciation in a
lasting form. Please accept this medal as a token of our true affection.
We would have liked that one of our Grand Officers could have come
to San Francisco to present the medal to you. But that will not be
possible before many months. For that reason we have delegated our
good Brother Felix Lenhart to represent us to you for this occasion. He
knows our sentiment for you and in translating this letter, he will add
the feelings. which are in our heart.
"We hope that one day you will come again to France, and give us
the opportunity of embracing you with our affection.
"Please accept. Right Worshipful and very dear Brother Wilson,
the assurance of our fraternal sentiments.
Pour le Conseil Federal Le Grand Chancelier Charles Riandy."
As you just heard, I am supposed to add some words to the outstanding honor bestowed upon you my dear Brother Lloyd. So let me

16

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

be the first to congratulate you today most cordially. All of you, who.
know Lloyd, know how he does quietly great things, which for other
people are very, very great ones. My first knowing of such things,
was when I learned that he had given an affidavit to a Viennese Brother,
while he was your Grand Master and so helping this Refugee Mason
to enter legally into this country, a very fine thing indeed to do for one
he hardly knew. I am sure that he never regretted his action. Other
things Lloyd does for all his friends are just unbelievable. Last year
again he showed his warm heart as a Mason, when he received with
M. W. Arthur Warren the personal Representative of the Grand Master
of France, Brother Rene Raymond here in Grand Lodge and helped
him with quite some details, besides inviting Brother and Madame
Raymond in his house for dinner
Lloyd, our Grand Secretary, also went through the trouble to find
out that the Grand Lodge of California never has severed the cordial
relationship between the Grande Loge de France and herself, while
many Brethren just did not find the time to dig into the files and find
the facts. The Grande Loge de France has known of his fine works
for many years and breaking an old rule not to have any Honorary
Members, bestowed upon M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, the Honorary Membership of the Grande Loge de France.
The Medal with 'o/hich I am to present you now, Very Respectable
and Very Dear Brother Wilson bears the following inscription:
"Grande Loge de France, Au Tres lllustre Frere LLOYD E. WILSON MEMBRE D'HONNEUR de la Grande Loge de France" A LA
GLOIRE DU GRAND ARCHITECTE DE L'UNIVERSE"
"LIBERTE EGALITE FRATERNITE"

pression of his personal appreciation and the thanks of the Grand Lodge
of California.
The Grand Master announced that in a special session of the Grand
Lodge of Israel in February 1952 Brother Wilson had been awarded
and presented the Medal of Distinction of that Grand Lodge. He
further announced that on September 8, 1954, in the Grand Lodge of
Massachusetts the Grand Secretary had been awarded and received
the Henry Price Medal for distinguished service to world..wide
Masonry.

And with the good wishes of the Most Worshipful Grand Master
of the Grande Loge de France Louis DOIGNON and all his Brethren
of the Grande Loge de France I decorate YOU LLOYD E. WILSON
with this medal as the first member of Honor of the Grande Loge de
France and may you wear it at many festival occasions in best health
for many years to come.
Thinking apparently that I had mislaid your medal, my French
friends sent me last week with the above read letter another medal by
air and I want you to keep them both as they bear the identical inscription.
En terminant, mon tres cher Frere Lloyd E. Wilson je vous salue
au nomdu Tres IUustre et Venerable Grand Maitre Louis Doignon et
de ses Freres de la Grande Loge de France comme member d'honneur
avec I' accolade maconique Trois fois Trois Liberte Egalite Fraternite.
The medal on a blue ribbon was then placed about the shoulders
of Brother Wilson and the ceremony concluded with the customary
French salutation. Brother Wilson responded with an appropriate ex-

17

. RESOLUTIONS
Resolutions received at different times during the Communication are
listed here for convenience of reference.
The Grand Secretary read the following resolutions, which were
referred by the Grand Master of the Committees as noted:

STEVENSON MONUMENT
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Californiia:
WHEREAS, Past Grand Master Jonathan Drake Stevenson, the
first Grand Master of Masons in California and a member of California
Lodge No. 1, F. & A. M ., is buried in an unmarked grave in the common
plot of Laurel Hill Mound Association at Cypress Lawn Cemetery.
Colma, California, and,
WHEREAS, Jonathan Drake Stevenson was a man distinguished
in California history for his contributions to the social and political life
and the economic growth of early California, and,
WHEREAS, he represented California Lodge at the formation of
the Grand Lodge in 1850 and there won the highest acclaim of his fellow
Masons by being elected its first Grand Master, and,
WHEREAS, California Lodge No. 1 has completed arrangements
to reinter the body of this distinguished Mason in its own Lodge Plot
in the same cemetery, and there to erect a fitting monument which will
mark the grave of the first Grand Master of Masons in California, and,
WHEREAS, Deputy Grand Master Henry C. Clausen has consented to dedicate the monument at a ceremony scheduled for November
6, 1954, under the auspices of this Lodge,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That the Grand Lodge
of California is respectfully petitioned to defray the cost of providing
a fitting monument over the grave of the late P. G. M. Jonathan D.
Stevenson in the plot of California Lodge at the said Cypress Lawn
Cemetery, in an amount not to exceed $350.00.
Attest:
D. EWING MARSH, Secretary
By Special Resolution of California Lodge No. 1. F. & A. M., at
their Stated Meeting of September 2, 1954-A. L. 5954.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DEGREE CHARTS

and therefore suffers envy, discord and confusion to interrupt the peace
and good fellowship which should prevail among the Workmen.
We therefore request that Section 775A be repealed.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN H. FERGUSON, P. M.
P. M., Long Beach Lodge No. 327 F. & A. M.
ARTHUR J. SISSONS, p. M.
P. M., Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674 F. & A. M.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, the Ritual Committee of the Grand Lodge of Masons
in the State of California recently abolished the use of Charts to illustrate
the lectures in the Three Degrees of Masonry: and,
WHEREAS, this Lodge has in the past made use of said Charts
and has found them to be most helpful to the candidate in gaining a
better understanding .of portions of the lectures being given him: and,
WHEREAS, this Lodge desires to continue such practice;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT Friendship·
Lodge No. 210 F. & A. M., does hereby respectfully request that said
action of the Ritual Committee be rescinded, and we do further urge
said Committee to restore the former custom of leaving the use of the
Charts to the discretion of the individual Lodge.
Friendship Lodge No. 210, F. & A. M.
MORRIS THUSH, Master
MALVIN MooRE, Senior Warden
RussELL BATTEN, Junior Warden
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

TI-llRD DEGREE CHART
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS. the Ritual Committee of the Grand Lodge of Masons
in the State of California, did abolish the use of the chart to illustrate
the lecture in the Third Degree; and,
WHEREAS. this Lodge desires that this custom be restored;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Menlo Park
Lodge No. 651, F. & A. M., does hereby respectfully request that said
action of the Ritual Committee be rescinded, and we do further urge
said Committee to restore the former custom of leaving the use of the .
Chart to the discretion.of the individual Lodge.
Menlo Park Lodge No. 651, F. & A. M.
WADE HAMPTON, Master
LEONARD WALLACH, Secretary
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

REPEAL SECTION 775A
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
When New Year's day and Independence day fall on Sunday the
holiday is generally observed on the following day.
Section 775A of Ross Digest denies this privilege to Masonic Lodges

19

FUNERAL REVISION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, the Funeral Service Addendum is not up to date with
the changes of procedure and interpretations of the Funeral Service made
by the·Grand Lodge Ritual Committee: and
WHEREAS, the Master's "committal" in the present Funeral Service ritual is not appropriate when the remains of a Brother are to be
cremated, and the Addendum does not provide any direction or authorization to omit the "committal" in such cases; and
·WHEREAS, parts of the wording of the "committal" (when appropriately given) may be harsh or cold to the widow and friends of the
deceased Brother, particularly the phrases "cold blasts of autumn" and
"chilling blast of death":
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Funeral Service ritual shall pe revised as follows:
That the word "blasts" be deleted from line 8 on page 9 of the Funeral Service and the word "winds" be inserted in its place and stead;
and that the words "the chilling blast of" appearing on lines 15 and 16,
page 9 be deleted; so that the portion of the committal appearing on lines
8 through 20, page 9 shall read as follows: "Though the cold winds of
Autumn may lay them in the dust, and for a time destroy the loveliness
of their existence, yet the destruction is not final. and in the springtime
they shall surely bloom again. So, in the bright morning of the world's
tesurrection, though thy mortal frame be now laid in the dust by Death,
thy spirit shall spring into newness of life and expand in immortal beauty,
in realms beyond the skies. Until then, dear Brother, until then, farewell!"
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the third paragraph of the
Addendum appearing on page 16 commencing with the words "If a
church" and ending with the words "is being offered" be entirely deleted and the following paragraph be inserted in its place and stead:
"The Master, Officers and members wear white aprons, without jewels, and the Master is without a hat or gavel. The family
of the deceased and the Master and minister may decide the order
of the services, if a church or other fraternal service is to be used

20

21

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in addition to the Masonic service, but the entire Masonic service
must be given. If the Masonic service follows the church or other
fraternal service, the Master as an act of courtesy may request a
participating ordained minister to deliver the final benediction."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the following paragraph be
added to the Addendum on page 18 and immediately preceding the last
paragraph thereof:
"If the remains are to be cremated, the 'committal' should be
omitted and the service concludes with the chaplain's benediction.''
Respectfully submitted,

Marshal then goes to the East, one step back from Flag. and places
right hand over heart. Master takes off his hat with right hand. holding
it at left shoulder, the hand being over the heart. Brethren (except Marshal and Deacons) stand erect and place hand over heart as Master
places hat at his shoulder. Deacons at the same time drop rod diagonally
across body to left hand without removing butt of rod from the Boor
and place right hand over heart. (All except Marshal and Deaco~s retain this position until Flag is passed through the door to the Tiler).
Marshal drops hand and takes Flag, goes to the Altar and stands between the Deacons. ( Etc .. as in present ceremony).

ALFRED F. BAUGHN

Past Master of Henry Knox Lodge, No. 662
Referred to Committee on Ritual

FLAG CEREMONY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The following amendment to the Monitor and Officers' Manual
would make two changes in the ceremony of Reception of the Flag.
The first change is to make the movements of the deacons correspond to those in the Retirement of the Flag. namely to have the Deacons go to the Altar with the Marshal when he retires. This change
would automatically make the same change in the Reception of Grand
Lodge Officers, since at page 58 of the Monitor it is provided that the
"movements of Marshal and Deacons are same as in Flag ceremony."
The second change is to add what is now actually done in practice,
that is, after placing the Flag in the East, or just before taking it to
retire it, the Marshal places his right hand over his heart.
RESOLVED. that the ceremony of Reception of the Flag ( p. 53 of
Monitor) be amended to read as follows:
After the lodge has been opened, Master says: Brother Marshal,
you will retire and present the Flag of our Country.
Marshal rises, makes sign and goes to the Altar. As Marshal turns
to go to Altar; Deacons rise, take rods, and go to Altar, arriving at the
same time as Marshal. All make sign, about face and walk abreast to
the Tiler's door. Marshal opens door and goes out. Senior Deacon takes
place on north side and Junior Deacon on south side of door, facing
east. Tiler opens door for Marshal on re-entering. (Etc. as in present
ceremony, to the point on page 54, where Marshal places Flag in stand
provided. Then the following: )
Marshal steps back one step. places right hand over heart for an
instant, then drops hand to side; Master puts on hat, and brethren lower
right hands to side. (Etc. to end of present ceremony.)
In the Retirement of Flag (at top of page 55), the ceremony would
read as follows:

ELBERT

w. DAVIS

Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

REGALIA AT FUNERALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS: Recent instructions have been issued prohibiting the
use of Officers Jewels and Aprons in the funeral ritual and,
WHEREAS: It is felt by those present at this meeting the dignity
of the Funeral service and the Fraternity have been belittled by this
ruling and.
WHEREAS: It is the popular opinion of a majority of the membership that the participating Officers should wear the aprons and jewels
of their office,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That Damascus Lodge No.
648 respectfufiy requests that we return to the practice of the participating Officers wearing the apron and jewel of their office and,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: That a Past Master participating
in a funeral service may wear his Past Master's apron if he so desires.
The above resolution was passed hy unanimous vote of the members
present at our stated meeting held Aug. 2, 1954.
Attest:
MYRON D. ABBOTT

Secretary
Damascus Lodge No. 648
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

ORDER OF BUSINESS AT STATED MEETINGS
The Grand Master has decided that the second order of business
at Stated Meetings. under Article XII of the Uniform Code of By-laws
(Ross Dig .• sec. 133), namely. "Reports of Committees," means an~
should be construed to mean "Reports of Investigating Committees,
and that reports of other committee~. are to be made and consi~ered und~r
the fifth order of business, namely, Miscellaneous and Unfinished Business."

23

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Monitor adopted by Grand Lodge has for many years followed
this interpretation of the By-laws. (See pages 46-49 of present edition
of _Monitor .and ~fficers' Manual.) For many years, however, there has
existed an mcons1stency in that under the second order of business at
page 47 of t_he Monitor, nothing whatever is set forth except a direction
to read sections 226 et seq. of Ross Digest, while under the third order
of bus_iness, "Ball~ting," the Master gives the report of the investigating
committee by statmg that the Committee has made a full and favorable
report. a report which should be made under the second order of business.
Investigating Committees may make three different reports, to be
acted upon by the Master or the Lodge, only one of which is followed
by a ballot. First, the committee may make an unfavorable report, if one
or more members report unfavorably. In such case "no ballot shall be
had,. hut the. Mast~~ shall upon the reception of such report, declare the
a_PPhcant reJected. (Ros~ Dig., sec. 228). The proper time for reception of such report and action thereon by the Master is under this second
order of business. Second, the Committee may request that further time
be g~an~ed, .otherwise it m_ust report at the next stated meeting after the
ap~lication is referred to it. (Ross Dig .. sec. 225) The proper time for
actmg upon the request or declaring that further time be granted would
be under this second order of business. Third, the Committee may make
a favorable report, in which event the balloting upon the application
would follow, under the third order of business.
A resolution has been prepared to amend the Monitor to amplify the
second order of business ( p. 4 7) by setting forth the declarations by the
Mas!er as to each. of these three situations, and to amend the paragraph
relatmg to the third order of business by eliminating the statement as
to the Committee report, that having been included in the procedure
added to the second order of business.
RESOLVED, that the Monitor, page 47 of the present edition, be
amended as follows:
After " ( 2) Reports of Investigating Committees. (Read section 226,
et seq., Ross Digest. Committee must report to Master and not to Secretary), add the following:
"Brethr~n: The 1~ommittee upon the application of Mr. Henry
George Smith .to ~ece1ve the degrees of Masonry in this Lodge (or)
(upon the application of Brother Henry Alfred Smith for affiliation with
this Lodge) has made an unfavorable report, and I declare the applicant
rejected. (Gavel)
(and/or) The Committee upon the application of Mr. Edward David
Brown has requested further time, and it is granted further time until
the next stated meeting of this Lodge. (Gavel)
(and/or). The Committee upon the application of Mr. John James
Jones to receive the degrees of Masonry in this Lodge (or) (upon the

application of Brother John Jam es Jones for affiliation with this Lodge)
has made a full and favorable report (or) (favorable report)."
After" ( 3) Balloting," add the following in lieu of present wording:
" ( Master rises) Brethren: We are about to ballot upon the application of Mr. John James Jones. His age is ............; occupation ............:
residence ___.......; recommended by ·····-·····; and refers to ............. Brother Senior Deacon, present the ballot," ( Etc., as presently set forth in
the Monitor).
Referred to Committee on Ritual.
ELBERT W. DAVIS
Grand Lecturer

22

SECRETARI ES ATTENDAN CE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS a full day, Sunday preceeding Grand Lodge Week, is
devoted entirely to Lodge Secretaries and
WHEREAS a large majority of Lodge Secretaries are Past Masters
and therefore Grand Lodge Officers and
WHEREAS Lodge Secretaries are generally considered the "right
arm" of the Masters it is hereby petitioned that ALL lodge Secretaries
be permitted to attend or be present at ALL Grand Lodge sessions in
order that they receive all necessary information FIRST HAND and
therefore be of still further value to their respective Lodges.
Respectfully submitted,
NORRIS c. VILES
Worshipful Master
Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

SPONSORIN G DE MOLA Y CHAPTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, the present ordinances of the Grand Lodge of California prevent constituent lodges from giving direct aid to De Malay
Chapters, and
WHEREAS. the De Malay Chapter in Banning is now without a
sponsor and has no prospect of acquiring one, and,
WHEREAS other Grand Lodges such as Massachusetts do permit
such aid,
NOW, THEREFORE . BE IT RESOLVED that .the Grand Lodge
of California adopt a resolution to permit constituent lodges to sponsor
such De Malay Chapters.
San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668
John Raatz, Senior Warden
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

24

25

PROCEEDINGS OF THI!

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 210 OF THE ORDINANCES

WHEREAS, Grand Lodge. Free and Accepted Masons of California and its subordinate lodges, practice the aforementioned doctrines and
teachings by administering relief to distressed Master Masons, their
widows and orphans, and maintain and support Masonic Homes for both
aged Masons and orphans of Masons: and,
WHEREAS, Grand Lodge. Free and Accepted Masons of California, and its subordinate lodges was ruled, on November 18, 1940 and on
July 17, 1944, by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to 1be exempt
from income tax under Section 101, Subsection ( 3) of the Internal Revenue Code: and,
WHEREAS, under the provisions of Section 23, Subsection ( o) ( 5)
of the Internal Revenue Code, contributions by an individual. during the
taxable year, to or for the use of a domestic fraternal society. order or
association operating under the lodge system, are deductible from income (subject to the present 30% limitation) but only if such contributions or gifts are to be used exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals: and
WHEREAS. it appears that contributions to Grand Lodge, Free and
Accepted Masons of California or to any of its subordinate lodges, or to
any wholly owned and controlled building association thereof, do come
within the purview of Section 23, Subsection ( o) ( 5) of the Internal
Revenue Code, namely, that such contributions are used exclusively in
the furtherance of Masonry in its efforts to promote religion, charity,
education and prevention of cruelty to children:
NOW. THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: That Grand Lodge,
Free and Accepted Masons of California, take steps at its 105th annual
communication, to be held October 11, 1954 to October 15, 1954, inclusive, to organize or cause to be organized certain charitable Foundation
or Foundations wherein the principal purpose of which, among others,
shall be the owning and operating of Masonic Temples for the use of
such Grand Lodge, and that all surplus funds from the operation thereof by such Foundation or Foundations shall be, from time to time, disbursed and/or donated to the Masonic Homes of California, a non-profit
California corporation.
I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT the foregoing resolution was, upon
motion duly made and seconded, unanimously adopted by Ionic Lodge
No. 520, Free and Accepted Masons of California at its Stated Meeting
on Monday, October 4. 1954.
CLAUDE LENZ, Secretary

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED. that Section 210 of the O~dinances
which now reads as follows:
"No Lodge shall receive an application for the degrees of
Masonry or for affiliation, from any one who is engaged either
as principal, agent or employe, in the saloon business (except in
connection with and as part of the operation of a bona fide hotel
or restaurant), or who is a barkeeper: and any Mason who may
hereafter enter upon and engage in the saloon business, either as
owner, agent or employe, except in connection with and as part
of the operation of a bona fide hotel or restaurant, or who shall
'become a barkeeper, shall be deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall, upon due trial and conviction of said offense,
forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges, including membership in
any Lodge,"
be and is hereby amended by striking out in its entirety, said section as
it now reads and substituting in place thereof the following:
"No person shall hold, or retain, or be eligible for membership in any Lodge who is. engaged either as principal, agent or
employe, in the saloon business, except in connection with and
as part of a bona fide hotel or restaurant."
Whereby said section as amended shall read as follows:
"Section 210
"No person shall hold, or retain, or be eligible for membership in any Lodge who is engaged either as principal. agent or
employe, in the saloon business except in connection with and
as part of a bona fide hotel or restaurant."
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH c. HINE, P.M.
Magnolia Lodge No. 242
CHARLES W. LUNSFORD, P .M.
Mizpah Lodge No. 378
ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.M.
Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and
General Purposes.

FORMATION OF CHARITABLE FOUNDATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS. Freemasonry is founded upon doctrines and teachings
of brotherhood, morality, temperance, tolerance, justice, education, good
citizenship, loyalty to civil government, and freedom of ideas and expression, and requires of the individual Mason a dependency on and belief
in God: and,

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes,

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CHARITY CONTRIBUTION

PROCEDURE FOR MEMORIAL TEMPLE ERECTION

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED: That the second paragraph of Section 158 of the
Ordinances be amended to read as follows:
In lieu of a floral piece for the deceased person, when requested by
the family, a contribution may be made to the Masonic Homes Endow~
ment Fund, OR SUCH OTHER CHARITY AS MAY BE RE~
QUESTED BY THE FAMILY, WHICH CONTRIBUTION
SHALL NOT EXCEED THE AMOUNT USUALLY EXPENDED
FOR A FLORAL PIECE. When such donation is made to the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund it shall be acknowledged by the Homes En~
dowment Committee and the family of the deceased brother notified of
its receipt.
At the Stated meeting of Apollo Lodge No. 396, F. & A. M. held
July 6, 1954, A.L. 5954, i~ was moved, seconded and unanimously
carried that the above resolution be proposed for considtration at the
1954 Annual Communication.
CLIFFORD H. NOYES, P. M.
Secretary,
Apollo Lodge No. 396, F. & A. M.

RESOLVED: That the razing of the structures existing on the land
which has been purchased as a site for the California Masonic Memorial
Temple shall not be commenced, or excavations preparatory to the build~
ing be made, or contracts looking to either of the foregoing or to the
erection of said Temple or any part thereof be entered into by the Grand
Lodge F. & A. M. of California or any of its agencies, until such time
as there is in the hands of this Grand Lodge or its designated agency
sufficient money wherewith to erect, complete, furnish and equip said
California Masonic Memorial Temple in its entirety, to the end that
said Temple may be dedicated unencumbered;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: That neither the credit of
this Grand Lodge nor any of its agencies shall be pledged, directly or
jndirectly, nor shall any of its securities or property owned by it or any
of its agencies be used as security or collateral in the borrowing of any
mo,ney for the purpose of erecting, furnishing or equipping said Califor~
Jlia Masonic Memorial Temple without the prior approval of this Grand
Lodge at an annual communication, or at a special communication called
for that purpose.

26

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Pur.poses.

WILLIAM F. MARTIN

S. W ., Redondo 328
WILLIAM A. BOYES

J.W., Redondo 328

PER CAPITA TAX LIMITATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
For the past several years the per capita tax assessed against the
constituent Lodges has gradually increased to an amount which creates
a burden on the Lodges, thereby making it difficult for them to function
free of financial worry, and whereas we do not feel that increasing the
dues at this time is the proper solution, but should be one of restricted
expenditures, we offer the following resolution.
"That the necessary legislation be enacted whereby the Per Capita
Tax assessed the constituent Lodges, by the Grand Lodge, shall not
exceed 20% (twenty per cent) of the minimum dues as established by
the Grand Lodge."
ALLBERT B. CHRISTIANSEN, P. M.
FITKIN, P. M.
A. J. McADAMS, P. M.
JOHN MACKELLAR, P. M.
A. LEONARD PAGE, P. M.
A.
KINCAID, P. M.

w. w.
w.

Past Masters Santa Barbara Lodge
No.192 F.&A. M.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

WILSON 0. WADE

P.M., Redondo 328
L. G. KELLY
P.M., Redondo 328
GEORGE

s. FAIRBROTHER

P.M., Redondo 328
Ref erred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

INVESTMENT OF LODGE FUNDS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Because, as time goes on, it may be desirable to include some other
method of financing the Grand Lodge Memorial Masonic Temple, and
Because the present plan of financing does not provide any alternate
type of financing, thereby preventing constituent Lodges from investing
any of their reserve funds or accumulated funds,
. BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that an added plan of fin~nc~
~g ~ adopted which will call for the repayment of funds invested in the
b ahfornia Memorial Masonic Temple, when such investments are made
Y ~onstituent Lodges, and which will bear an interest rate comparable
to like securities, and

29

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the several constituent
Lodges may invest the same portion of their funds in the California
Memorial Masonic Temple securities as they may presently invest
in common stocks admitted to exchange hy the Securities Exchange
Co~ission of the U. S. government.
0. J. WOHLGEMUTH , W. M.,
Alamo Lodge No. 122,
Walnut Creek.

Whereas: It has been stated or implied that once erected clear of
.
indebtedness the Temple would be selfsustaining, And,
Whereas: In Masonry as perhaps no where else, Democracy is or
should be exemplified in its purest form, which when spelled out means
that, as we are taught, membership in this great Brotherhood places
upon every member the duty of assuming his fair share of its responsibilities as well as enjoying its privileges;
Therefore Be It Resolved: That effective January 1, 1955, ending
December 31, 1958, previous ordinances, Statutes, Customs, and Policies to-the contrary not withstanding, an equal and-uniform assessment
to be known as the Grand Lodge Memorial Temple fund of sixteen
dollars ( $16.00) shall be levied against each present and/or future
member within the life of this resolution financially able to pay, to be
paid either in a lump sum or in four equal installments of Four Dollars.
( $4.00) each Year, subject to the remission of and under the same
conditions as are dues. all funds when and as collected by the Secretary
of subordinate.lodges to be remitted to the Grand Lodge together with
and as a part of the annual report, or more often if desired. An appropriate receipt or certificate, suitable for framing shall be furnished the
individual contributor. This assessment shall apply to and be collected
from each applicant for re-instatement and/or membership by affiliation
by transfer from a lodge in another jurisdiction who has not previously
paid it, Nothing in this resolution is to prevent a lodge from paying
this assessment for their members out of the General fund of the lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
W. G. CONNER, P. M. and Secretary
Hermosa Lodge No. 557
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

28

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

INVESTME NT OF LIFE MEMBERSH IP FUNDS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Because in the building of the California Memorial Masonic Temple
a large sum of money is needed to finance the project and because the
Masons of California must wholeheartedly push the project to completion, and,
Because the constituent Lodges of California have 'funds at their
disposal which, if invested in securities of the California Memorial
Masonic Temple, would be of inestimable help in raising the necessary
funds to complete the said Memorial Temple,
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that the constituent Lodges
may invest their Life Membership Funds in securities of the California
Memorial Masonic Temple when, as, and if a plan is adopted providing
for the repayment to constituent Lodges of such funds when invested;
said plan to provide for the payment of the same interest rates as do
securities of the United States government and/or the State of California.
0. J. WOHLGEMUTH , w. M ..
Alamo Lodge No. 122,
Walnut Creek.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

MEMORIAL TEMPLE ASSESSMENT
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Whereas: Even as did our patron saint, King Solomon build a house
dedicated to God, so do we Masons of the jurisdiction of California
undertake the worthy and ambitious task of erecting. atop Nob Hill,
. overlooking the City of San Francisco, an appropriate and permanent
home for our Most Worthy Grand Lodge Free and Accepted Masons
which when completed will likewise be dedicated to His service, And,
Whereas: In promoting this worthy undertaking. We Masons of
this day and generation are not unaware of the obstacles which must
be overcome including the indifference of the people, and,

MEMORIAL TEMPLE ASSESSMENT (#2)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVED:
1. That an assessment of $4 .00 per year. be, and the same is hereby
levied upon every member of this grand jurisdiction for the term of four
years.
2. That all money from said assessment shall be expended for the
construction of the Masonic Memorial Temple in San Francisco.
3. That each member of this jurisdiction shall pay said assessment
annually at the time he pays his dues, and shall be billed therefor by
the secretary of his Lodge.
4. That any member of this jurisdiction who has heretofore contributed to the fund for building the temple shall, at his option, be given
credit upon said assessment in the amount of his voluntary contribution.
5. That each Lodge in this jurisdiction shall have the power to pay

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

from its general fund, on behalf of any of its members unable so to do,
any part of said assessmt:nt.
6. That each Lodge shall be liable for the full amount of said assessment, proportionate to the membership of such Lodge, in the same manner it is liable for per capita taxes levied by this Grand Lodge.
Poinsettia Lodge No. 633 F. & A. M.
FRED

w. ZANDER

Secretary
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

ASSESSMENT OF $10.00 PER MEMBER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
. WHEREAS, in 1953, the Grand Lodge of California took steps
toward building a "California Masonic Memorial Temple" on Nob Hill
in San Francisco, and
WHEREAS, the proposed Temple, when completed, will be a fitting
Memorial to our Masonic War Dead, and will be a credit to every Lodge
in California and to each member thereof. and
WHEREAS. every Lodge in California, in consideration of the
benefits derived from said Temple, should perform its just share of the
labor required to erect that Temple, and
WHEREAS, said Grand Lodge recommended "That our goal be
set at a minimum average contribution from each Lodge, based on the
equivalent of a day's labor, to be not less than an average of $10.00
per member" and
WHEREAS, it has been conclusively proven that said goal is possible of attainment since 45 of the Constituent Lodge have already
reached and exceeded said goal, by voluntary subscriptions, now, therefore
BE IT RESOLVED that the Grand Lodge of California reaffirms
the goal recommended in the 1953 annual Communication, with the
understanding that if said goal is not attained through voluntary subscriptions from the Members, that then, the difference between said
voluntary subscriptions and said goal shall be paid to the California
Masonic Memorial Temple Fund out of the General Fund of said Lodge,
and one-half of said difference shall be so remitted not later than October 1. 1955; and the balance not later than October 1, 1956; and that
the total of said obligation shall be computed on the January 1, 1955
membership roll of each Lodge.
Presented by officers of Live Oak No. 61, Rockridge No. 468, Acorn
No. 494 and Plymouth No. 560.
Referred to Committte on Policy and General Purposes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31

PROPOSED DA TE FOR 1955 COMMUNICATION
The Grand Secretary reported that the Civic Auditorium could be
secured for Grand Lodge in 1955 commencing on the fourth Monday in
October.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

COMMITTEE ON RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN
GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The extension of recognition to foreign Grand Lodges is an important and essential function of our Grand Lodge. The subject should
be attended with great care to the end that complete regularity is
assured before amity is accorded. At the present no statutory authority
exists for the appointment of a Committee on Recognition of Foreign
Grand Lodges. Such appointment is at the discretion of the Grand
Master under Sec. 77 of Ross Digest.
It appears that the subject should be dignified by specific statutory
provision:
We therefore present the following:
RESOLVED: That a new section be added to Ross Digest as follows:
Sec. 78.2. A Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges,
consisting of three members, shall be appointed by the newly installed
Grand Master at each Annual Communication for a term ending at the
close of the next succeeding Annual Communication. It shall be the
duty of said Committee to investigate, consider and report with recommendations direct to Grand Lodge concerning all petitions for recognition by foreign Grand Lodges and matters relating to fraternal intercourse with such Grand Lodges.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE
CHESTER H. WARLOW
ARTHUR M. WARREN

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General Purposes.
With the permission of the Grand Master, three resolutions previously circulated to the Lodges were withdrawn by the respective sponsors:
RELATIVE TO PLACING A PRESENTATION BIBLE ON
THE ALTAR.
RELATIVE TO A PRAYER AT INSTALLATION.
RELATIVE TO THE TIME FOR OPENING STATED
MEETINGS.

32

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURE R
Again the Assistant Grand Treasurer renders the Annual Report .
for and on •b ehalf of the Grand Treasurer, M. W. Francis V. Keesling.
P. G. M .•. who most unfortunately is still incapacitated. We extend our
best wishes to him.
Detailed financial statements of Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California, the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund and the Masonic Homes
of California are included in the printed Auditor's Reports, to which
reference is hereby made, and which reports are available to all of our
Lodges. Also included therein are complete lists of all securities owned.
These securities are all held in safekeeping by the Trust Department of
the Anglo California National Bank, at its main office in San Francisco.
There is also appended at the end of this report a Consolidated
Statement of Total Assets and Liabilities under the Control of Grand
•
Lodge, as of July 31. 1954.
The Investment Committee of Grand Lodge is composed of the
Grand Treasurer, the Assistant Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of the
Finance Committee, the President of the Masonic Homes Board of
Trustees or a Trustee of that Board designated by him, and the Chairman of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board or a member of that
Board designated by him. The President of the Masonic Homes Board
of Trustees has designated Brother Past Master Ralph H. Head and
the Chairman of the Endowment Board has designated Brother Past
Master Ja'hn W. Davey, as members of the Comm~ttee. With deepest
regret do we give recognition to the sudden passing of P. G. M. Claude
H. Morrison, former Chairman of the Finance Committee, and a highly
valued member of our Investment Committee. P. G. M. Edward H.
Siems was thereupon appointed to the office and is now a member of the
Committee.
Since the adoption of the Prudent Man Rule by Grand Lodge at its
Communication in 1950 the Investment Committee has met regularly
each three months. and between meetings has performed its duties by
mail or telephone. We have now started our fifth year under the Prudent
Man Rule with respect to our investments. By Ordinance, under Section
152.1. the following provisions were established:
GROUP I. At least 40% of the funds available for investment must
be in:
A) Cash and/or bank accounts.
B) Obligations of the United States.
C) Obligations of the State of California and its political
subdivisions.

33

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

D) Such other securities as are legal investments for Cali~
fornia savings banks.
GROUP II. Up to 20% may be invested in:
A) Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be
fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities
and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
B ) Preferred stocks. which are or will · be fully listed and
registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
Group III. Up to 40% may be invested in:
A) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered
on an Exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance company stocks.
B) Shares of Investment Trusts.
With respect to the authority to invest in Group II and Group III.
the Ordinance reads as follows: "No such investments, however, shall
be made which at the time of purchase will result in the total market
value of the securities referred to in this section exceeding twenty per
cent (or forty per cent) of the total market value of all the cash. bank
accounts and securities held,"-the controlling point being that there
cannot be more than 20% or 40% invested in Groups II and III, respectively. at the time of purchase.
At the Investment Committee meeting on August 12, 1954, it was
decided that the percentages of 40--20-40 for Groups I, II and III be
applied to the total investment portfolio of the combined funds.
The following summary shows consolidated market values of the
securities owned plus investable cash, together with a record of income
on these investments, as of November 30, 1950, and each succeeding
fiscal year-end through July 31, 1954, including the percentage income
an the total market value for each year:
CONSOLIDATED MARKET VALUE OF SECURITIES AND INVESTABLE CASH
(BY GROUPS AND TOTAL) AND DOl.LA!l INCOME (In Parentheses)
Income
TOTALS Percentage
GROUP I
GROUP m
GROUP II
Datu
Return
Percent Amount
Amount
Percent Amount
Percent Amount

11/80/60
8/18/61
8/4/62
7/11/68

7/81/6'

16,668,329
(194,280)
4,668,243
(174.084)
4,218,637
($86,827)
4,698,120
($102,881)
4,861,294
(196,268)

92.4%
76.3
68.4
68.6
61.8

$102,140
($4,262)
389,000
($16,662)
574,096
($20,882)
479,627
($19,894)
771,147
($27,968)

1.7% $ 364,003
($22,066)
1,026,726
6.6
($63,203)
1,866,121
8.7
($98,614)
2,208,658
6.6
($114,815)
9.2
8,278,814
($162,076)

6.9% $6,124,471
($120,698)
6,972,968
17.2
($163,939)
6,648,864
27.9
($205,272
7,881,806
29.9
($286,690
8,401,256
89.0
($276,296)

1.97%
2.68
3.09
3.21
8.28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

34

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It .:hould be mentioned that while the income on our investments has
risen from $120,598 on November 30, 1950 to $275,296 for the year just
closed, a portion of this added income was made possible by annual con~
tributions to the Endowment Fund. In addition, some bequests have
been received each year. However, one true comparative figure can be
used-name ly, the percentage income as of November 30, 1950 was
1.97%. and as of July 31, 1954 it was 3.28% on the total market. value,
excluding the $339,850 invested in Masonic Temple stock ~nd the income
thereon. Nor is the income included on $339,675 of Series F bonds of
various maturities, on which interest is paid only at maturity, but these
bonds are included in the total value.
As of July 31, 1954, on the basis of book value, the percentag~ return
on our total investments, including investable cash but excluding the
Masonic Temple stock and the Series F bonds, was 3.76%.
The book value of our total investments, excluding Masonic Temple
stock, as of July 31 , 1954, was $7,024,270.1 ~· The market va~ue was
$7,764,255.24, excluding investable cash, which represe!1ts an increase
over book value of $739,985.11.
.
Following is an exhibit of the combined investment portfolio of
Grand Lodge, with the market values as of Jul~ 31, 195~, divided into
the various groups and showing the percentage invested m each group,
together with the income return from each group.
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNI A
COMBINED PORTFOLI O-JULY 31. 1954
(Market Value)
SUMMARY
Income
Per Cent
Amount
GROUP I
Cash ·······-·-···-,·······$ 637 ,000.00
U. S. Government .. 3,449.925.31
Railroad .................... 250,000.00
Public Utility ..........
14,368.75

Total Group L. ...$4,351,294.06

$ 95,257.50

Return

2.19%

GROUP II

Bonds:
Municipal ···-·····-.$ 7,000.00
Railroad ............... . 200,000.00
Industrial... ........ 125,950.00
4,800.00
Real Estate ..........

$

295.91
5,750.00
3,961.50
150.00

$ 10,157.41

Total Bonds ....$ 337,750.00
Preferred Stocks:

Public Utility ......$ 88,850.75
Industrials ............ 344,546.00

$

Total Preferreds $ 433,396.75

$ 17,805.40

Total Group U .....$ 771,146.75

9.2%

3,595.40
14,210.00

$ 27,962.81

GROUP III

Common Stock:

Public Utility ......$1,271,141.48
Industrial ............ 1,505,419.95
Finance ................ 428,048.50
Real Estate ..........
74,204.50

$ 60,564.67
70,848.65
17,404.50
3,258.00

Total Group III....$3,278,814.43

39.0%

$152,075.82

4.64%

GRAND TOTAL ........$8,401,255.24

100.0%

$275,296.13

3.28%

• In bank accounts, and
all earning interest.

Our investments have continuous supervision by Moody's Investors
Service, and the members of the Committee are well pleased with their
services, represented by Mr. Richard T . Langan, Pacific Coast Manager,
who has been faithful in attendance at meetings and most cooperative
at all times.
Most Worshipful Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master, favored us with
his presence at the August, 1954 meeting of the Investment Committee.
Brother Past Master Ernest G. Bashor, Chairman of the Masonic Homes
Endowment Board, also attended this meeting.
As to Constituent Lodges, we have received the following report
from Moody's Investors Service covering the period from December 1,
1951throug hJuly31 , 1954:
..Investment ervice to Constituent Lodges Starting December 1,
1951-as of July 31, 1954.

s

$ 12,740.00•
74,900.00
7,187.50
430.00
51.8%

35

3.63%

"1. Number of Lodges making inquiry........................
120
2. Number of Lodges presenting portfolios for
analysis and review ............................................
88
3. Number of original reports and analyses prepared
88
4. Total dollar value of portfolios reviewed ................ $3,328,979.03
5. Number of Lodges reporting to Moody's on
action taken ........................................................
67
6. Number of reviews su:bsequent to initial reports...... 284
7. Miscellaneous corresponde nce.
( a} Number of letters received from Lodges
after original report ················'················· 104
( b} Number of our letters to Lodges other
than original reports & periodic reviews.... 105
..The Lodges are now working well on their investment portfolios
a:d problems. They have had some experience with their investments in
t e ~t two years and generally appear to like their experience with
~unties. Most of the Lodges cooperate very well with us in going along
;1th ftc:ommendations as suggested but do serious thinking about their
vestment problems. It would seem that the Lodges do need the peri~

36

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

stir them up sometimes to a conodic reviews which we make in orde r to
problems. This seems to be of
tinuing cons ider ation of their investment
subs tanti al help to them.
ing tow ard building stro ng
"In the last year we have been work
not been sugg estin g any grea t
Gro up III portfolios but latel y we have
more actively recommending
incr ease in this Group. We have been
ges.
incr ease s in Gro up II securities for the Lod
h have been sugg este d for
whic
III
up
Gro
in
ks
stoc
the
"Alt houg h
type which can be retai ned
the
Lod ge investment have been gene rally of
in the periodic reviews
nded
mme
reco
more or less permanently, we have
ove the position of the portfolios.
in the last year a few exch ange s to impr
ot include all of the activity.
"A repo rt of the type given abov e cann
of conf eren ces in the office and
As you know. we have had a number
conclusion, we have found that
even more freq uent telep hone calls. In
been constructive and moreover
this year 's wor k with the Lodges has
a very plea sant relat ions hip. "
"Mo ody 's lnve stdr s Service"
of the members of Gra nd
Perm it us agai n to brin g to the atten tion
available free to all Con stitu ent
Lodge that investment counsel service is
glad ly furnish the nece ssar y
Lodges. The Gra nd Secr etar y's office will
info rmat ion to any inquiring Lodge.
. the Assi stan t Gra nd SecAga in we than k the Gra nd Secr etary
Committee for their wholent
reta ry, and the members of the Inve stme
on. Brot her Wal ter A. Park er,
hear ted, generous supp ort and cooperati
been char acte rized not only
who se ten year s of service as Aud itor have
has found it desirable to retir e
by efficiency, but by genu ine helpfulness,
henc e has volu ntar ily relinfrom the general acco unta ncy field and
quis hed the audi ting of all our accounts.
y for the selection of AuThe Ord inan ces plac ed the responsibilit
nd Trea sure r. Afte r thor ough ly
dito rs on the Gra nd Mas ter and the Gra
num erou s fine firms, we have
reviewing our situa tion and considering
Certified Public Acc ount ants ,
d,
mon
reta ined the firm of Skin ner & Ham
P.M . of Park Boulevard Lod ge
of which Brot her James E. Ham mon d,
active char ge and supervision
No. 568, is a part ner, and he will have
of audi ting all our funds and accounts.
Resp ectfu lly submitted,
PAUL A. PFLUEGER
Assi stan t Gra nd Treasurer
Refe rred to Com mitt ee on Segr egat ion.
repo rt of auditors.
Not e: See special appe ndix for complete
Com mitt ee on Segr egat ion
The Dep uty Gra nd Mas ter appo inted the
. of Gra nada Lodge No. 608,
to consist of Don ald G. Campbell, P.M
Lod ge No. 356 and Sau Yee
Kent 0. Seymour, P.M . of Mill Vall ey
589.
Cha ng, Mas ter of Kauai Lodge No.

37

REP OR T OF GR AN D SECRETAR Y

Lt

'

California:
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lodge of
with my Thir teen th Ann ual
I have the hono r to pres ent .to you here
etary
Secr
Report as your Gra nd
LODGES UNDER DISPENSATION
Lodge U.D .. Oas is of Mar a
Golden Empire Lod ge U.D .. Kit Cars on
Hill sbor ough Lodge U.D ., ArLodge U.D ., Lemon Gro ve Lod ge U.D .• and La Can ada Lodge U D
.,
vin Lodge U.D.• Opp ortu nity Lod ge U.D
· ·
of the fiscal y a
close
the
re
befo
tly
shor
tuted
insti
were
equa l or ea riess amo unt of
Each of these Lod~es collected only an
rd with prec eden t the Gra nd
dues than the per capi ta tax, and in acco
they be not requ ired to pay the
Mas ter •. at my sug~estion, dire cted that
d that this be appr oved .
per capi ta tax. It 1s resp ectfu lly requ este
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
were continued from the last Ann ual Com
ers
matt
wing
~e. follo
one:
ent
pres
the
munication to
1953 Proceedings.
1. Public Liability Insurance, page 279,
Proc eedi ngs
2. Fore st Lodge No. 66, page 201, 1953
·
ngs.
eedi
Proc
3. Tria l Proc edur e, page 296, 1953
ngs.
eedi
Proc
1953
265,
4. Met hod of Balloting. page
CHANGE OF MEETING PLACE
e of meeting to a place
following Lodges have removed their plac
Th~
th
0
se removals shou ld be aper an that named in the char ter. The nd Secr etar y for prop er
Gra
prodve • and the char ters retu rned to the
.
en orsement.
fax to Larkspur.
~firfax Lodge No. 556 -mo ved from FairSign
al Hill to Long Beach.
from
LomS Lodge No. 613 -mo ved
B
from Seal Beach to Long
Bea~. mont hore Lodge No. 716 -mo ved

J

r

MEMBERSHIP
ed
hip total s for the year I have repr oduc
bers
mem
the
g
entin
pres
th
te comparison and have also
sh~~~es fifor 1953 for sake of immedia
for comparison by decades.
1924
and
,
The e gures for 1944, 1934
grow, as is indi cate d by 12 new
Lod es fuumber of ~dges continues to
the membership is at an all-time
highgwith ~9ed66d4ur~ng t~e year , and
al
• , mcludmg 175 plur members.
I

ft

1924
21
passed ················ ················ 8,191
Raised .................................. 8,164
7
Aftlliated.·. ·· ··· ··· ········ ·· ·· ··········· 8,18
1,720
· · ··············
Gain ed by ·E~~~·~::: : ·······
·········
Reinstated
242
~-·- -·-·····---- ...............
Lodges Form ed ............
~7'1ated

1934
2,098
l,991
1.898
846
15
477

1944
1
13,216
11,469
10,601
1,576
2
1,057

1953
11
10,003
9,311
9,179
2,436
375

1954
12
9,437
9,396
9,370
2,568
l
375

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANp LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1,803
1,894
937
1,097
Withdrawn --·····---···----·····---- 1,323
Suspended for
910
745
871
629
4,560
Non-Payment of Dues......
Suspended or Expelled
38
31
9
24
33
for Cause ··········----···········6
1
1
24
Loss by Error·---------------------··
3,582
3,386
2,433
1,905
Died --·----·-·······-···------······-····· 1,124
Number of Members ........... J08,173 132,331 138,738 213,639219,664.
3,317
2,820
2,885
7,368
665
Dues Remitted -······-··-······-····
6,025
5,807
9,228
Gain ····-····-··--···-··---·······-······· 7,590
4,363
Loss --················-··············-····
506
624
636
580
582
Number of Lodges................
•Including 175 plural members.

Fred George Fremder, Charles Vivian Gay, George Philip Gebhardt,
Jesse Gregg. Harold Kenneth Hanson, E. George Kamilos, Edward
Kalsh, William Mendes, Patrick Aloysius Miller, Charles Edwin Nicolaus, Enoch Alonzo Noble, Marvin Oscar Olson, George E. Orphan,
Joseph Robinson, Theodore Edward Schauer, Calvin Morrison Smith,
James Dickson Smith, William Andrew Tice, John William Vickrey and
Wesley William Ward.
Kit Carson Lodge U.D. located at Sacramento. Dispensation granted March 29, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on April 10, 1954, at
Sacramento, Most Worshipful Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master,
officiating.
The charter mem'bership is as follows: Elza Emmett Ramey, Walter
Carroll Kelley, Truman Newell Fassett, William Albert Lewis Long, Sr..
Lyle Fernely Barber, James Cary Branch, Lloyd Frank Cole, Harry
Dean Counter, Orrie Draper Lisetor, Samuel Arthur Hudson, Delwin
Keith Barber, James William Pea, Ortell Jordan Anderson, Lauren
Francis Appling, Paul Prytz Bach, Francis Homer Bower, Samuel Banford Burton, Phillip Neal Crawford, Wayne Harlin Cunningham, William Lincoln Harjes, Jack Bruno Hauer, Willis Victor Hawkins, Gerald
Miner Johnson, Virgil Delbert Kerns, Robert Lee King, Benjamin Albert
Kirkey, Calvin William Kramer, Charles Christian Krueger, George
Lawrence Lakin, Willard Laurence Little. George Bradford McFarland,
Norris Andrew Mearns, Charles Louis Miller, Francis Charles Milne,
Carl Major Murphy, John Bernard O'Brien, Henry Wilkie Ogg, Roger
David Palmer, Joseph Parisi, Walter John Petrie, Ernest F. Smith,
Clarence Harold Tooley, Rex Leslie Warren, Henry Edward Wegele
and Donald Conklin Wiese.
_Oasis of Mara Lodge U.D. located at Twentynine Palms. Dispensation granted April 6. 1954. The Lodge was instituted on May 12,
1954, at Palm Springs, Right Worshipful Edgard V. Stewart, Jr., Senior
Grand Warden, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: John Collett Pritz, Ben Hudson Bailey, Kenneth Sylvester Carter, Alpha Channing Stoddard, RobFrankli? Scriven, John Christian Jacobsen, Randy Jacob Murphy,
W~rl~ Corliss Hopper, Noel Condiff Edwards, John Jacob Smith, Guy
J• d~am Moorhead, Homer Howard Hagler, Harvie Colman Brown,
im · Hudson, John Hill McCutchen, Harvey D. Mixon, Edgar NorfaCoDyer, Joseph Martin Tietz, Fred Adolph Meyers, Benjamin Frankleman, Robert Bayfield Kent, Kenneth Avery Van Tassell, Carl
in
t:~f'~ Couture, Edsel Ray Gilpin, Parker Edward Harrington, William
R d e Cazneau, GeorHe Samuel Lyall, Roy Lester Hendrickson, William
R? henBLane, Walter Clark Cory, Carleton George Reed, Herbert James
well Vernon Lafferty, Harris Gray Sherman, Frederick Smith,
N r~e Kenneth Vance, Samuel Alfred King, Jam es McGehee Hardin,
assim Gabrial Thomas, Raymond Earl Walker, Henry Herman

NEwLooGEs

The following new Lodges have been formed during the year:
San Juan Lodge U.D. located at Fair Oaks. Disp~sation granted
October 21, 1953. The Lodge was instituted on January 15, 1954, at
Sacramento, Most Worshipful Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master,
officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Norman Lauritz Langness,
Gerald William Davis, Fred John Boltres, George Orin Kellam, Simeon
Earl Green, Elmer Arthur Chindlund, Darrell Ellsworth Beaver, John
Charles Owens, Earl Henry Cummings, William Karl Mendoth, Gordon
Eugene Oram, John Dustin Mullendore, Charles Clifton Bailey, Richard
Lorenzo Beckes, Guy Firmand Coffing, Rudolph Clifton Coffing, Leslie
Arthur Downs, Robert Nathaniel Everhart, Luther Stanley George,
John Clifford Harper, Orville Goodwin Harrold, Robert Linus Gibbons,
Lester Hoyt Hough, Charles Baker Kendrick, Carl Severin Madsen,
Percy Kelly McMillan, Fred Lawrence Montgomery, Jr., Jesse Tatem
Moran, Robert William Morris, Elwood Charles Moyer, Eugene Albert
Tidmore, Charles Floyd Williams, Thomas Ralph Wills, Bayard Merton Graves, Thomas Curtis, Clifford J. Belknap, Wayne Buford Parker,
Orion Frank Kellam, Earl Richmond Gillespie, William Foss Hunter,
Clinton Montross Simpson, Garnet Barron Fleming and George Mercer.
Golden Empire Lodge U.D. located at Sacramento. Dispensation
granted March 29, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on April 10, 1954, at
Sacramento, Most Worshipful Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Kenneth Chase, Albert Anton
Anderson, Frank John Wiseman, Philip Edward Geiss, Warren Walter
Sanford, Henry Samuel Hansen, Robert Kilstrom Titus, Francis Leroy
Payne, Ira Henry Lewis, George C. Broehan, John Charles Kemp, Robert Gibson, Gwinn Riehard Anderson, Wilson Woodrow Brinton, Raymond Otto Burnett, Adrian Ellis Burritt, Charles Ira Chamberlain,
Ed9'ar Hawthorne Erwin, James Walter Florence, George Edison Folks,

M

G:o •

39

40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hodges, Charles Lawrence Heh, Elmer McMillian Katzenstein, Elbert
0. King, and William Dempster Grindrod.
Lemon Grove Lodge U.D. located at La Mesa. Dispensation granted
April 26, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on May 15, 1954, at San
Diego, Right Worshipful Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Senior Grand Warden,
-officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: William E. Rife. Thomas
Enos Parsons, John Benjamin Dail, Lewis Fay Reed. Lionel Avis Thorogood, James Francis Hopkins, William Ray Ross, Harry Oscar Bowman, Joe Charles Nemec, Ford Happa Bunch, Guy Alan Overstreet,
Guy Gamel Carmichael, William Blake, James Grover McMahon, Paul
Homer Tilton, Paul Emile Thibeault, Rodolphe Wilfrid Belanger, Lum
Felix Morrow, John Rufus Gregory, Paul Verdane Haskins, Stanley
Reeves Blake, Andrew Edward Donnelly. Willard Arthur Rigley,
Henry George Jensen, William Neil Vaughn, Kenneth Armstrong, Burton Charles Snyder, Henry J. Goldy, Francis Ledrue Patterson, Lewis
Edwin Steiner, John Landesco, Carl James Bestrom, Christopher Ferguson, Luther Nye Hussey, Daniel Livingstone Apra, Hershel Hugh
Hodges. Douglas Franklin Marshall, Richard Farron Quiggle, Chester
Taylor Hobbs, Glave Spencer Bunch, Jr .. and John Marshall MacConnell.
Hillsborough Lodge U.D. located ai: Burlingame. Dispensation
granted June l, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on June 3, 1954._ at
Burlingame, Most Worshipful Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Paul Theodore Hokhkiss,
Milford B. Armstrong, George Hans Christensen, Julius Lewis McDonald. Ruben Gustave Klump, Winslow Wetherbee, Clifford Bryant
Chalenor, Ernest Henry Baack, Woodrow Pershing Wilson, Kenneth
Dean Porter, Lorin Rhoads Todd, Philip Garnet Ferguson, Sylvan
William Mayer, Albert Edward Roth, Thomas Harry Holder, Everett
AJexis Tyler, Charles Frederick Recknagel, Jr., Stanley Gilmore Arsenault, Alfred Powell Cassidy, \V'illiam F. Reshatoff, Ernest Lester
Oaks, William John Hower, John Ward, Gee Lawton Turner, Harry
Louis Marshall, Charles Conrad Johnson, Thomas Alfred Page, Edward Knapp Hause, Ernest Edward Morelli, Harry DuVal Ballard,
Harold Sturtz \Vard, Harold Gates DeGolia, Jr., James Charles Connor, Eric August Ohlund, William Edward Patsel, Hobart Edward
Laughlin, Fred Farnsworth Livingston, William Alonzo <?apelle,
Charles Antoine Dostal. Miner Lewis Pruitt, George Alex Simpson,
Oscar Henry Snyder, Robert Elmer Gallup. Millard Fillmore Harris,
Kenneth McLean Hower and Philip George Lee.
Arvin Lodge U.D. located at Arvin. Dispensation granted June 4,
1954. The Lodge was instituted on June 8. 1954, at Bakersfield, Most
Worshipful Frank Harwell. Jr .. Grand Master, officiating.

•

I

.

I

il

The charter membership is as follows: Harold Reif DeTuncq, Durward Belmont Hope, Thomas Douglas Downs, Edwin Jacob Handel,
Verne Albert Burr, Richard Cal Wilson, Fred. Delil~e Est~s'. Lester LaVerne Frick, Clave Ivan Kittell, Orestes Righelhs, W1.lham Arthur
Moore, Louis Harold Showers, Amos Marrion Boatwri~ht, Charles
Alfred Pomeroy. Hiram Willis Stapp. Robert John Sabovich, Warren
Eugene Stewart, Lawrence Andrew Walker, David Jordan Boehm, John
William Boehm, Richard Mumma Miller, Mark Cuzner Sayer, Leland
Hugh Brown, John Fontaine Carter, Vernon Edward Van Zandt, R~b­
ut Boyett Tucker, Everett Gordon Nolan, Elijah Edmond C~lhns,
Charles William Jukes, Foy Marion Tison, Chauncey Brush Dickey,
Claude Earl Botkin, William Merritt Mitchell, Jack Lewis Stoltz, -John
William Carter, John Mark Sabovich, Emil E. Penner, Kenneth ~arl
Lolmaugh, Woody Lynn, Melvin John Sabovich, Dan John Sabovich,
John William Holt, Royal Newton Jones, Floyd Elsworth Peterson,
Millard Finis Permenter, Stephen Hopkins Straub, James Edward
Neale, David Jacob Luther Miller, Cordis John Barber and William
Josh Kirby.
La Canada Lodge U.D. located at La Canada. Dispensation granted
June 2, 1954. The LOdge was instituted on June 15, 195i, at La Canada,
Right Worshipful Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Senior Grand Warden, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Ralph William Collins, Leonard Edward Tingey, William Henry Rose, Henry Clarence Aker~erg,
George David Baird, Jr., William Glenn Balch, W~lter Hol.t Baymiller,
Francis Eric Bloy, Clifford William Bonde, Frederick Marion Burkett,
Willis Claredon Butcher, Vincent Conte, Howard Edwin Cooper, Robert Winthrop Cooper, Frank Jay Cornwell, J~·· Cassius E:uge~e Culbe~­
son, Jr., Joseph Allen Davis, William Fred Fick, Carl Otis Flmt, David
Armitage Foster, Willard Woodbury Gardner, Victor Russell Hansen,
Russell Gilbert Kauffmann, William Richard Latta, Henry M. Lee, Ross
Stickland leLansky, Edwin Perley Lewis, Richard Henry MacCracken,
Herbert Swift McCartney, Jam es Henry Mitchell, Walter Stewart
Moore, Earl Stanley Marner, Clyde Herbert Morrill, Francis Edward
Morton, Julius Alphonse Muller, Jr., Lawrence Edmond Oakander,
Rowland Kuhnle Overacker, Robert Chisholm Paxton, Charles Haydn
Penn, William Alberto Perkins, Glenn Sylvester Roberts, Edward Stuart Russell, Julius Frehsee Seeley, Leonard Percy Shelley, Jordan Puryear Sims, Thomas Ira Smith, Jr., Frank Laurence Theyken, Robert
Jenkins White, John Wiggers and Robert Rowe Wondries.
~rtunity Lodge U.D. located at Hawthorne. Dispensation grant13, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on July 20, 1954, at Hawed
thorne, Most Worshipful Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Horace Earl Grant, Moses
Chalmer Nixon, LeRoy Marvin Rondot, Floyd B. Slane, Harold Allen

SuiY

42

43

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Zil~m.an, Glenn .Da~iel Burnett, William Howard Harris, Jack Moore,

Jordan, Harry William Maxwell, Donald Robert Knox, Michael Cataldo
Alu, Alvin Joslyn Jones, James Edward Wolff, James Shearer, Wellington Claude Holbrook, James Corbett, Ralph Frederick Seyb, Edward
Mason Walter, Fletcher Smith, Ralph Easton Murdy, Albert Miller
Herbrand, Collins Rowe Buchner, Robert Emil Gravesen, Jr., Giles
Thomas Chism, Sidney John Goodfellow, Charles Malcolm Jameison
Godman, William Albert Getten, Joseph Ernest Young, Roy Norman
Clifford, Conrad Lawrence Hans, Reuben Najarian, Kenneth Ness, William Arthur Schmitz, Tracy A. Hicks, Harry James Shook, Allison
Brownell Polley, Ben Martin Thorness, Alex Skulsky, Lloyd Goss
Scott and Edward Eugene O'Haver.

Wilham Francis Liermann, Clifford Joseph Edwards, James Milford
Reed, John Lyle Dew, Eady Clifford Kinney, · Robert Alfred Lander
Wil~ia~ Osa Miller, Harry Blackstone, Frank Ona Farmer, He~
Christian Eckert, Jack Morrison Wiedner, Frederick Martin Griffin,
Horace Walton Dearing, Jr., John Armstrong Ruddock, Charles Francis
Adams, Herman Leroy Thorpe, David Franklin Hazen, Philip Carl
Benson, Clarence Eugene Hungerford, Edward Cass Sheffield, Earl
Lloyd Pitman, Leon Henry Sellers, Wilmer Edward Dike, Harry Kenneth Ca~pbe~l. Clayton Howard Forbes, Spence )\.lvin Borger, Clarence Eddie Bigelow, Frank Milton Weed, John Hedrick Reames, Earle
Lionel Horton, John Louis Holman, Frank Albitz, James Joseph Maybee,
Arthur Edgar Eames, Gust Johnson, William Cole Bertrand, Lloyd
Wallace Kotter and Joseph Anthony Wojtak.
Tyre Lodge U.D. located at Downey. Dispensation granted August
3, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on August 18, 1954, at Downey,
Most Worshipful Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Robert Roy Vaughn, Stanley
Harold Millers, Robert Howard Lamb, Glenn Delbert Kincaid, Jacob
William McKenzie Inzer, David Grandison Pennybaker, Reynold Lawrence Davis, Jesse Loring Grinne11, Christian Emil Steeholm, Adolph
Charles Koch, Richard Irving Reynolds, Harry Edwin Waldman, Jack
Edward Wiley, Robert Stevens Shean, Clarence Edward Gray Roxey
lrv~n~ Reynolds, James Bartley Edgell, Walter Howard Ward, Ralph
Wilham Leatherby, Norman Hjalmar Wimmerstedt, John Junior Singelton, Alfred Sol Eppstein, William Chester Turley, Jan Scheffer, John
Frederick Pohl, Ralph Minard Foster, Herman William Bleiler, Paul
Williams Lorentzen, Stanley Alan Powell, Carl Peter Johan Petersen,
Joseph James Dubsky, John Henry Dean, Jr., Peter Christie, Harold
Rowe Beckett, Walter John Roloff, Franklin Turner Wyer, Delmar Lee
Shuler. Ellis Clay Dobbins, Dean Edwin Snyder, Walter Hillman Ouster haut, Jr., William Oris Stubblefield, George Panchel Bryan, Bernard
Ray Millers, Arvid Everett Althens, Ralph Henry Van Middleworth,
Robert Arthur Millhouse, Jr., Thomas William Kelton, Harold Charles
Colgrove and E4ward Byron Finch.
Morningside Park Lodge U.D. located at Inglewood. Dispensation
granted August 3, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on August 26, 1954,
at Los Angeles, Most Worshipful Frank Harviell, Jr., Grand Master,
officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Albert Ernest Linde, Emmett
Alvah Rathbun, Galvarino Alvarez, Taft LaVere Allen, George Lawrence Raymond Pilj, Aubrey Philip Rabb, Franklin Monroe Linde, Terrance Ralph Aldrich, Fred Trautman, Claude Dudley Stone, Abe DeBoer, John Franklin Huizenga, Harold lngolf Glascoe, Harold George
Murdock, Clinton George Keller, Daniel Reuben Bantz, Scott Schlye

Oakwood Lodge U.D. located at Montrose. Dispensation granted
August 26, 1954. The Lodge was instituted on August 31, 1954, at
Glendale, Most Worshipful Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master, officiating.

The charter membership is as follows: William B. Neeley, Jerry
John Ritch, Lewis Phillip Arnold, Thomas Alderman, Diran Owen Alexander, Arthur George Andresen, Jerrell Carroll Babb, Edward French
Baird, Eugene Arthur Balcom, Sr., Lee Henry Behymer, Paul George
Breckenridge, Philip McCaw Brown, James Douglas Buchanan, Don
Arthur Burton, Howard Lincoln Byram, Ralph Howard Cooley, Arthur
Addison Coughlin, Earl Ellsworth Craven, Benjamin Franklin Crolley,
Jr.• Howard Walter Erickson, Elia Alessandro Faggioli, Elmer Ellsworth Fitz, William Turney Fox, Willis Marvin Fraser, Clarence Ewen
Glaze, Raymond Richard Hails, Fred Walter Hall, Sr.• Normal Clifton
Hayhurst, Harrison Butts Heim, Donald Hubert Hughes, George William Irving, Emil Otto Kiefer, Otto 'Kloppenburg, Alvin Glenn Low,
Lewis Irving McAllister, John Walter McElheney, Joseph Albert Mellen, Homer Edgar Razor, Aubert Marden Rice, William Albert Rice,
Harold Leffler St. Claire, Delos Herbert Smith, Truman Young Stelle,
John Jefferson Taylor, Jr .• Herbert Van Walker, Kenneth Leroy Whaley, Maxwell Stuart Widdowson, Clifford Ross Woods, Chester Cullington Wright and Donald Myron Young.
LIFE MEMBERSHIP

The Grand Master approved resolutions providing for life memberships in the following Lodges:
Increasing fee: Washington No. 20 to $312.50: Union No. 58 to
$325.00; Oakland No. 188 to $325.00; Santa Ana No. 241 to $350.00:
Mill Valley No. 356 to $375.00; le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371 to
~5.00: Fraternity No. 399 to $312.50; Honolulu No. 409 to $312.50:
mona No. 457 to $375.00: Seaside No. 504 to $500.00: Covenant No.
~7 to $312.50; Seal Rock No. 536 to $312.50; Signal No. 543 to $325.00;
lendale No. 544 to $312.50: Pyramid No. 562 to $350.00: Military

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Service No. 570 to $312.50: Jubilee No. 604 to $500.00: Hemet No.
615 to $312.50: Fairview No. 629 to $312.50.
Fixing Fee: A F. E. I~n No. 645, at $450.00.
DISPENSAT IONS ISSUED.

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Occidental
No. 22: Illinoistown No. 51: Pajaro No. 110: Woodlan d No. 156: Rio
Vista No. 208: Doric No. 216; Winnedum ah No. 287: Whittier No. 323:
San Jacinto No. 338; Charter Rock No. 410; Exeter No. 424: Argonne
No. 514; Catalina Island No. 524; White Pine No. 555: Provident No.
609; Normal Heights No. 632: Indian Rock No. 638; Castro Valley No.
713.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Rose's Bar No. 89: Mosaic No. 218; Janesville No. 232: Ontario No. 301: Presidio No. 354:
Parnassus No. 388; Honolulu No. 409; Schofield No. 443: Seaport No.
550.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces without reference to a committee of investigation: Alcatraz No.
244: Wilshire No. 445.
To receive and act upon the application of a rejected Candidate
within twelve months: Bay City No. 526.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: Lexington
No. 104: Willow Glen No. 676.
Special permission for the conferring of Degrees: Clovis No. 417:
Alta Vista No. 464: Culver City No. 467.
AMENDME NTS TO BY-LAWS

lncreasingfees: Yount No. 12, to $165.00; Temple No. 14, to $75.00:
Crescent No. 45, to $125.00; Natoma No. 64, to $75.00; Morning Star
No. 68, to $100.00; Anaheim No. 207, to $75.00; Rio Vista No. 208, to
$100.00; North Butte No. 230, to $75.00; Traver No. 294, to $80.00;
Alhambra No. 322, to $100.00; Carquinez No. 337, to $75.00; San Fernando No. 343, to $100.00; Sunset No. 352, to $100.00; Mill Valley No.
356, to $100.00; Willits No. 365, to $75.00; Unity No. 368, to $125.00;
Ocean Park No. 369. to $115.00; Highland Park No. 382. to $100.00;
Orosi No. 383, to $65.00; Dinuba No. 385, to $75.00; University No.
394. to $125.00; La Mesa No. 407, to $125.00; Morgan Hill No. 463, to
$75.00; Patterson No. 488, to $75.00; Roosevelt No. 500, to $100.00:
Searchlight No. 567, to $110.00: Compass No. 590. to $75.00; Three
Pillars No. 613, to $125.00: Neptune No. 619. to $100.00; Point Loma
No. 620. to $125.00; Fairview No. 629, to $100.00: Palisades No. 637,
to $100.00; Lomita No. 644, to $125.00: La Habra No. 659, to $125.00;
Reseda No. 666, to $90.00; Los Cerritos No. 674, to $175.00; Canby
Cross No. 679, to $65.00: Travelers No. 692, to $125.00; Meudell No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

45

695. to $115.00; Bixby Knolls NQ. 699. to $100.00; Lorenzo No. 709, to
$100.00; Castro Valley No. 713, to $100.00; Estero No. 719, to $75.00;
Home No. 721, to $125.00.
Decreasing fees: Rockridge No. 468. to $115.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: University No. 394, to $20.00; Patterson
No . .f88, to $5.00; Roosevelt No. 500. to $15.00; Point Loma No. 620,
to $10.00; Greenleaf No. 670, to $25.00: Home No. 721, to $10.00
Fixing affiliation fee: Yount No. 12, at $6.00: Union No. 58, at
$10.00: Traver No. 294, at $1.00: Mt. Jackson No. 295, at $5.00; West
Los Angeles No. 373. at $15.00; San Gabriel No. 546, at $25.00: Palisades No. 637, at 10.00; Castro Valley No. 713, at $20.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Azusa No. 305: Lebanon No. 495; Magnolia Park No. 715; Verdugo Hills No. 727.
Increasing dues: Washingt on No. 20, to $15.00: Hawaiian No. 21,
to $15.00; Ophir No. 33, to $15.00: Sacramento No. 40, to $15.00: Crescent No. 45, to $15.00; Union No. 58. to $15.00: Morning Star No. 68,
to 15.00; Bear Mountain No. 76, to $15.00: Concord No. 117, to $15.00:
LaFayette No. 126. to $15.00; Oakland No. 188, to $15.00; Ferndale
No.193, to $18.00; Salinas No. 204, to $15.00; Olivet No. 205, to $18.00;
North Butte No. 230, to $15.00:Santa Ana No. 241, to $15.00: Traver
No. 294, to $15.00; Tehachap i No. 313, to $18.00: Mill Valley No. 356,
to $18.00; Willits No. 365, to $18.00; Unity No. 368, to $15.00; Ocean
Park No. 369, to $15.00: le Progres de l'Oceanie, No. 371, to $15.00;
Highland Park No. 382, to $15.00; Fraternity No. 399, to $15.00; Honolulu No. 409. to $15.00; Silver Trowel No. 415. to $15.00; San Dimas
No. 428, to $15.00: Ramona No. 457, to $15.00; Delta No. 471. to
$15.00; East Bay No. 489. to $15.00: Silver Cord No. 505, to $15.00;
Covenant No. 527, to $15.00; Seal Rock No. 536. to $15.00: Signal No.
543, to $15.00: Glendale No. 544, to $15.00; Fairfax No. 556, to $18.00:
Pyramid No. 562, to $16.00; Searchlight No. 567, to $16.00; Military
Service No. 570, to $15.00; Compass No. 590. to $15.00; Jubilee No.
604, to $15.00; Sojourner No. 607, to $15.00: Provident No. 609, to
$15.00: Three Pillars No. 613. to $15.00: Hemet No. 615, to $15.00;
Big Bear No. 617, to $15.00: Southland No. 618, to $15.00; Atwater
No. 622, to $15.00; Fairview No. 629. to $15.00: Riverside No. 635, to
$15.00: A. F. E. Irwin No. 645, to $18.00; Reseda No. 666, to $15.00:
Travelers No. 692, to $15.00; Meudell No. 695. to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Forest No. 66: Alamo No. 122:
Palos Verdes No. 389; Kerman No. 420: Claremon t No. 436: Azure No.
533; Belvedere No. 539: Pearl Harbor No. 598; Menlo Park No. 651:
Orinda No. 704: Mineral King No. 720.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Hermosa No. 557.
Provision for {egal holidays: San· Francisco No. 360: Francis Drake
No. 376: Polaris U.D.

46

.4.dopting Uniform Code of By~Laws: Pajaro No. 110; Hartley No.
199; Truckee No. 200: Brawley No. 402: San Juan U.D.; Golden Em~
pire U.D.; Kit Carson U.D.: Oasis of Mara U.D.; Lemon Gr~ve U.D.:
Hillsborough U.D.: Arvin U.D.; La Canada U.D.: Opportunity U.D.;
Tyre U.D.: Morningside Park U.D.: Oakwood U.D.
Re Charity Committee: Normal Heights No. 632; Canby Cross No.
679: Vista No. 687.
RESOLUTIONS

Providing for change of meeting place: Lexington No. 104: Rio Vista
No. 208: Francis Drake No. 376: Huntington Beach No. 380; Palos
Verdes No. 389: Chowchilla No. 485: Garvanza No. 492: Seaside No.
504: Covenant No. 527: Fairfax No. 556: Monte Vista No. 655; Los
Cerritos No. 674; San Marino No. 685: Castro Valley No. 713; Bel~
mont Shore No. 716.
Changing Annual Meeting to November: Georgetown No. 25: Sierra
Valley No. 184.
TRIAL RECORDS

No.

GRAND LODGE OF C~IFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

766--( See also No. 949). Petition for restoration. A Fellow Craft
of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Expelled March 2, 1939.
No. 985-A petition for restoration. A member of La Mesa Lodge No.
407. Expelled January 8, 1940.
No. 1013-A member of Evergreen Lodge No. 259. Acquitted May 1,
1942. New trial ordered Octdber 1942.
No. 1194-Petition for restoration. A member of Bay City Lodge No.
526. Expelled November 2, 1949.
No. 1317-( See also No. 1358.) A member of Pearl Harbor Lodge No.
598. Expelled October 4, 1952.
No. 1319-( Retrial. ) A member of Madison Lodge No. 23. Expelled
October 7, 1952.
No. 1323--( Retrial). A member of Alcatraz Lodge No. 244. Expelled
April 7, 1954.
No. 1324-(Retrial). A member of Ponderosa Lodge No. 700. Ex~
pelled February 10, 1954.
No. 1327-( Retrial). A Fellow Craft of Florence Lodge No. 649. Ex~
pelled January 7, 1954.
No. 1333--(Retrial). A member of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Repri~
manded July 6, 1954.
No. 1335-A member of Illinoistown Lodge No. 51. Suspended Feb~
ruary 2, 1953.
No. 1354-Petition for restoration. A member of Burbank Lodge No.
406. Expelled July 2, 1953.
No. 1365-A member of Eden Lodge No. 113. Acquitted April 1, 1953.
No. 1366--A member of El Sereno Lodge No. 588. Expelled October
6. 1953.

N

47

1367-A member of Reedley Lodge No. 304. Expelled October 7,
o.
1953.
No. 1368-A member of George Washington Lodge No. 525. Expelled
December 1, 1953.
•
No. 1369-A member of McKinley Lodge No. 347. Suspended Decem~
her 3, 1953.
No. 1370--A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled Dece~;ber
3, 1953.
No. 1371-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Acquitted October
2, 1953.
No. 1372-A member of FaUbrook Lodge No. 317. Expelled Decem~
her 11, 1953.
No. 1373-A member of Signal Lodge No. 543. Expelled January 5,
1954.
No. 1374-A member of South Gate Lodge No. 320. Expelled Feb~
ruary 3, 1954.
.
No. 1375-A member of William D. Stephens Lodge No. 698. Acqmt~
ted January 5, 1954.
No. 1376--A member of Sacramento Lodge No. 40. Expelled Febru~
ary 5, 1954.
No. 1377-A member of Pacific Lodge No. 136. Acquitted February 2,
1954.
No. 1378-A member of Needles Lodge No. 326. Expelled March 8,
1954.
No. 1379-A member of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Expelled March
2. 1954.
.
No. 1380--A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Expelled March 4,
l~~
.
No. 1381-A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Acquitted De~
cember 3, 1953.
No. 1382-A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Expelled Decem~
her 7, 1953.
No. 1383--A member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30. Acquitted April
6, 1954.
No. 1384-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Suspended
April 1, 1954.
No. 1385-A member of Reedley Lodge No. 304. Expelled March 3,
1954.
No. 1386--A member of Alhambra Lodge No. 322. Suspended May 3,
1954.
No. 1387-A mem·ber of Castro Valley Lodge No. 713. Expelled April
1, 1954.
No. 1388-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Acquitted Decem~
her 3, 1953.
No. 1389-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Expelled May 7,
1954.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. 1390--A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled May 14,
1954.
No. 1391-An Entered Apprentice of El Sereno Lodge No. 588. Expelled July 6, 1954.
No. 1392-A member of El Dorado Lodge No. 26. Expelled June 7,
1954.
No. 1393-A member of Alamo Lodge No. 122. Reprimanded July 3,
1954.
No. 1394-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled July 9. 1954.
No. 1395-A member of Willow Glen Lodge No. 676. Expelled July
7. 1954.
No. 1396-A member ~f Oildale Lodge No. 688. Expelled June 4, 1954.
No. 1397-A member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437. Suspended July 7,
1954.
No. 1398-A member of El Segundo Lodge No. 507. Acquitted July 19,
1954.
No. 1399-A member of Golden State Lodge No. 358. Expelled Au~
gust 5, 1954.
No. 1400-A member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621. Expelled Au~
gust4.1954.
.
No. 1401-A member of Coalinga Lodge No. 387. Reprimanded August 13, 1954.
No. 1402-A member of Sacramento Lodge No. 40. Suspended August
6, 1954.
No. 1403-A member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437. Expelled August
4, 1954.
No. 1404-A member of Claremont Lodge No. 436. Suspended July 8,
1954.
No. 1405-A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Acquitted July 1, 1954.
No. 1406-A member of Signal Lodge No. 543. Expelled August 3,
1954.
.
No. 1407-A member. of Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699. Expelled August 4, 1954.
No. 1408-A member of Coalinga Lodge No. 387. Expelled July 8,
1954.
No. 1409-A member of Menorah Lodge No. 623. Expelled Septem~
·her l, 1954.
No. 1410-A member of Gold Hill Lodge No. 32. Expelled May 5.
1954.
No. 1411-A member of Oceanside Lodge No. 381. Expelled March
1. 1954.
No. 1412-A member of Alamo Lodge No. 122. Expelled August 7.
1954.
No. 1413-A member of America Lodge No. 475. Expelled September
2, 1954.

FIFTY YEAR BUTIONS

48

NAME AND LODGE

49

DATE OP RAISING

Abbott, Clark Lorenze, McKinley Lodge No. 347........................September 20, 1904
Abrahm. Samuel, Fidelity No. 120....................................................0ctober 22, 1903
Ahart. Henry Whitley, Gold Hill Lodge No. 32.............- ..........A_pril 23, 1904
Alexander. Walter Edwin, Fresno Lod_ge No. 247 .................- ...November 13, 1903
Anderson, Otto Evart, Mount Moriah Lodge No. +t.................... November 25. 1903
Arey, Louis Melbourne, San Diego Lodge No.35..........................August 28. 1903
,Atman. Otto Edward, Molino Lodge No. 150................................May 23, 1903
Atkinson, Johnson, Palestine Lodge No. 35L...............................April 23, 1903
Avery. Ralph W .. Hollywood Lodge No. 355.- ..........................November 27, 1903
Badger, Charles Robert, Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463..................February 16, 1897
Baetz, John Henry, East Gate Lodge No. 290................................April 29, 1904
Bailey, Charles Everett, San Jose Lodge No. 10............................August 31, 1903
Baker, Charles Arnold, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44..................November 21, 1903
Bangberg, Richard Franz, Compass Lodge No. 590......................December 14. 1903
Barker, George William, Roseville Lodge No. 222.....- ..............April 29, 1904
Barnes, Stephan William, Covina Lodge No• .33't--·-····-·-·······-Febr uary 27. 1903
Bartelme, Ferdinand John, Sequoia Lodge No. 349........................June 22, 1903
Bassett. George Combs, Sacramento Lodge No. 40____ _________0ctober 21, 1903
Baty. Samuel E .• Alturas Lodge No. 248...- ................................ _Pebruary 27, 1904
Beanston, George Alexander, California Lodge No. L ...............October l, 1903
Beatty, Walter L.. South West Lodge No. 283............................September 28, 1904
Becker, Philip Sheridan, Mill Valley Lodge No. 356.................... March 28, 1904
Beede. Charles Frank Tyler, Antioch Lodge No. 175.......- ........,.April 11, 1903
Beede. Ralph Merrill, Antioch Lodge No. 175................................April 25, 1903
Behrens, Christian, Golden State Lodge No. 358............................March 2, 1904
Belden, Ralph Austin, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57..........................March 10, 1904
Benerd, Ira Sankey, Apollo Lodge No. 396...- ...............- ..-June 4, 1903
Bennett, Victor Webb, East Gate Lodge No. 290........_ ......____April 28 1904
Benton, Julian Juriah, Berkeley Lodge No. 363...- ........................ Sept~r 21, 1904
Bergholz. Prank Louis, Golden State Lodge No. 358...--'·--------June 27, 1903
Bermingham, Samuel. Antioch Lodge No. 175...........------·-------June 13, 1903
Berry, Frederick Leslie, California Lodge No. L..........................May 21. 1902
Berry, Nathan Soloman, Golden State Lodge No. 358..................June H, 1904
Biehl, Nicholas, Southern California Lodge No. 278...............- ... anuary 27, 1904
Blackburn. William A .. Palisades Lodge No. 637.........- ............... March 22, 1904
Blakely, John Frederick, Lodi Lodge No. 256........._ ............- ....September 23, 1904
Beatty, Walter L., South West Lodge No. 283..............................September 28, 1904
Blackwell, Harry, Bell Lodge No. 483............................................ February 19. 1904
Klacow, John Robert, Alameda Lodge No. 167..............................April 30, 1904
land, Gus Stanley, West Gate Lodge No. 335.............................. November 10, 1903
Blunck, C.Srl Ernest, Hermann Lodge No. 127........_ ...................0ctober 19, 1903
Boomer, Preston Hamilton. Friendship Lodge No. 210.................. March 26, 1904
gharles Lewis, le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371......... --~une 4, 1903
en, hester Leroy, Corinthian Lodge No. 9............................ une 21, 1904
rsmith, John Ernest, Whittier Lodge No. 323..................._ .. ovember 27, 1903
ey, William, South Gate No. 320.................................- ......... 1901
ford, Samuel Grant, Suisun Lodge No. 55....- ..............- _...May t-t, 1904
Brown, C.Srl G., Oriental Lodge No. l+t.-...................................Auguat 18, 1903
Brown, ~hester B., Mount Jackson Lodge No. 295........................~une 22, 1904
Brown, enry Stephen, West Gate Lodge No. 335...................... anuary 15, 1903
Buescher, Arthur Gustave, King_ Solomon's Lodge No. 260........ ovember 7, 1903
Burke, Samuel Edgerton, P.G.M .. Sunset Lodge No. 352........-July 20, 1903
Burns, ~~rles Victor, Tehama Lodg_e No. 3..................................November' 24, 1903
urns,d Grt Heni?j Mount Olive Lodge No. 506...................... March 11, 1899
~
eorge,
en Lodge No. 113..........................................September 13, 1904
t1 • Fredton R., Mill Valley Lodge No. 356..............................June 4, 1904
But1er,
erick Campbell, Alhambra Lodge No. 322 .................April 12, 1902
u er,
rry Everett, Penrhyn Lodge No. 258.,............................January 15, 1903

t:an.

th

50

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

51

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Cabe, Robert Lee, East Gate Lodge No. 290..................................March 1904
Campbell, Archibald, Presidio Lodge No. 354.............................-.May 6, 1904
Capps, Herbert Norwood, Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627............July 20, 1904
Cardwell, John Henry, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244......................- ...June 25, 1904
Carman, Clyde Davenport, Apollo Lodge No. 396......................March 29, 1903
Carmichael, John Syme, El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576............January 1, 1904
Chaban, Joseph, Doric Lodge No. 216............................................June 13, 1901
Chaille, John Purnell, Phoenix Lodge No. 178.......................•....-September 10, 1903
Chambers, Joseph F., Pales~ne ~odge No. 351....................- ........April 26, 1904
Chapman, Albert Jules, Cahforma Lodge No. 1.................- .........0ctober 29, 1903
Chea!, Thomas Alfred, Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463......................0ctober 30, 1903
Clark, Alfred Roy, Molino Lodge No. 150......................................May 5, 1904
Claytor, Charles Hiram, Tuolumne Lodge No. 8..........................0ctober 31. 1903
Clearman, Rollin Ines, Lindsay Lodge No. 416.........................._..August 11, 1903
Cleek, Jeb Stewart, Orland Lodge No. 265....................................0ctober 2, 1903
Cloudman, Harold Caldwell, Durant Lodge No. 268 .................... November 20, 1903
Clouette, William lsiale, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38 ......................August 27, 1904
Coffman, Charles Henry, Covina Lodge No. 334............c.••••• _ ••••• September 23, 1904
Coggins, Clifford Edmund, Durant Lodge No. 268........................ 0ctober 30, 1903
Cohn, Carl, Starr King Lodge No. 3-H•.••..•..••..•·-····················-·····November 30, 1903
Collins, Willis Harold, Sequoia Lodge No. 349.................- ...........September 7, 1903
Conley, Duncan Monah, Malta Lodge No. 661.. ............................June 5, 1903
Cooper, John D., Russian River Lodge No. 181.............................. February 18, 1904
Cordrey, Henry Everett, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367............ November 30, 1903
Cornehl, Henry, Pacific Lodge No. 136:.....- ..................................May 13, 1904
Cornell, Daniel Jefferson, Live Oak Lodge No. 61........................ November 27, 1903
Corrigan, George Washington, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367.. June 29, 1899
Cowan, William Virgil, Sacramento Lodge No. 40........................ December 2, 1903
Crandall, Elbert Earl, Wilshire Lodge No. 445..............................January 5, 1904
Crawford, Wayne L., Abell Lodge No. 146_............................. _January 25, 1904
Cree, Denny Ray, Jordan Lodge No. 654........................................September 4, 1903
Crow, Benjamin H., San Jacinto Lodge No. 338............................September 7, 1901
Cullberq.Jr.. Issac, Arcata Lodge No. 106......................................May 16, 1904
Currie, Hugh, Apollo Lodge No. 396..............................................0ctober 8, 1904
Cushing, Stephen Russel, San Francisco Lodge No. 360..............January 7, 1899
Cuthbertson, Alexander Macbeth, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346........March 11, 1904
Davis, Charles Albert, Elysian Lodge No. 418.............................. September 27, 1900
Davis, Dalis Denver, Hesperian Lodge No. 264............................ November 25, 1903
Davisson, Benjamin Franklin, Suisun Lodge No. 55..................- .. April 23, 1904
Degen, Walter, California Lodge No. 1..........................................July 28, 1904
Del Carlo, Giuseppe, Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219................March 20, 1903
Delappe. Fred Russell, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206........................•.0ctober 20, 1902
Dempsey, Robert B., Solano Lodge No. 229...._............................_August 22, 1902
Denny, Thomas Cannen, Petaluma Lodge No. 180....................- .. December 26. 1903
Denzer, Philip, Welcome Lodge No. 255........- ..............................July 27, 1902
Dettmann, Fritz Ludwig, Oriental Lodge No. 144.......................... May 17, 1904
Dibble, Oliver, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260........................... _.April 4, 1904
Dickinson, Almer Edwin, San Jose Lodge No. 10..........................April 21. 1904
Dickison, Clarence Anson, Anchor Lodge No. 273........................April 21, 1902
Dinsmore, Trustom Ring, Humboldt Lodge No. 79........................April 16, 1901
Dixon, Edward W., Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361............................September 12, 1904
Dockstader, Ernest Clayton, East Gate Lodge No. 290................ February 26, 1904
Dohn, Geor~e Arthur, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57..........................0ctober 27, 1903
Dom, Carl Delos, Richmond Lodge No. 375..................................December 11, 1903
Downen, John M., Covina Lodge No. 334......................................April 22, 1904
Ducker, Peter Henry, Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422........................July 22, 1904
Dunker, John Adolph, California Lodge No. L---···-··-········-·····October 8, 1903
Dunn, Berry E., Pacific Lodge No. 136-..•....................................... May 27, 1904
Durham, Haley, Alameda Lodge No. 167....••............................,.._.April 9, 1904
Dye, Milo Ernest, Franklin Lodge No. 143_________March 23, 1904

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Early Clarence Erwin, Tyrian Lodge No. 439.............................. 0ctober 8, 1903
Edma~s. Frank Ten Eyck, Friendship Lodge No. 210..................April 28, 1904
Edmonston, Brook, Solano Lodge No. 229 ......................................February 27, 1904
Edwards, William McEwen, Marin Lodge No. 191.................._..January 25, 1904
Elliott, Charles A. Nelson, Tuolumne Lodge No. 8........................July 31. 1903
Ellis, Albert Ellsworth, Evergreen Lodge No. 259........................March 26, 1892
Erlin, George Edwin, ~lifomia Lodge No. L..............................June 25, 1903
Erlin, J. Theodore, Onental Lodge No. 144...- ............................_.!March 1904
Eva, James M., King Solomon's Lodge No. 260..............................November 7, 1903
Evans, Thomas Delacy, Galt Lodge No. 267..................................August 5, 1904
Fagan, Edward Peter, Seal Rock Lodge No. 536..........................May 17, 1902
Fairclough, Freeman, South San Francisco No. 212.......- .............March 24, 1904
Falk. Charles Hollander, King Solomon"s Lodge No. 260............November 28, 1902
Farmer, Emmet Eugene, Park Lodge No. 449................................July 22, 1903
Farnsworth, Walter Scott, Mariposa Lodge No. 24.................- ...March 3, 1904
Fernald, Joseph Harry, East Gate Lodge No. 290..........................0ctober 23, 1903
Fletcher, Edward, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296................................September 2, 1904
Follmer, Raymond Irving, Clarence F. Smith No. 482..................November 3, 1903
Forbes, Robert, Kilauea Lodge No. 330............................................ September 19, 1903
Frahm, Henry A., Solano Lodge No. 229.•..·--·-········-··········-·····0ctober 19, 1903
Frehe, Alfred Louis, Abell Lodge No. 146........................- ............March 19, 1904
Fricke, Charles W., Utopia Lodge No. 537....................................June 27, 1903
Frye, Frank Augustus, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296........................becember 18, 1903
Gamier, Ralph Lee, University Lodge No. 394..............................0ctober 27, 1903
Gibson, Robert Cary, San Fernando Lodge No. 343.......·-·-·········February 18. 1904
Gilbert, Alfred H., San Diego Lodge No. 35.................................. September 4, 1901
Gillis, Walter Henry, Arcata Lodge No. 106..................................July 18, 1904
Glass, Clement Studebaker, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202..................June 30, 1903
Godfrey, Harry S., Oak Grove Lodge No. 215..............................September 3, 1904
Goldberg, Garrett Milton, Doric Lodge No. 216............................0ctober 8, 1903
Gore, James, Amity Lodge No. 370..................................•...- ..........January 25, 1904
Gorr, Louis Lawrence, Friendship No. 210..........- ........................June 9, 1904
Gould, Harry Folsom, Excelsior Lodge No. 166........................•... September 23, 1903
Graham, Herbert James, Oroville Lodge No. 103...•......................June 16, 1903
Gray, Henry Charles, Petaluma Lodge No. 180............................December 2, 1903
Green, George G., Golden Rule Lodge No. 479.....- ....................... August 4, 1904
Green, Herbert C., Rising Light Lodge No. 397.....- .......................March 28, 1904
Green, Robert Frank, Curtis Lodge No. 140..................................December 7, 1901
Greer, William Allison, Huntington Beach No. 380....................-February 20, 1904
Gregg, Lloyd W., Sr.. North Hollywood Lodge No. 542............ September 22, 1903
Griffin, Dewitt Clinton, Wilshire Lodge No. 445............................ December 19. 1903
Griffith, Charles Arthur, Azusa Lodge No. 305..............................September 16, 1902
Guard, Thomas, Kilauea Lodge No. 330....•.....................- .............. April 2, 1904
Habenicht, Rudolph, Oriental Lodge No. 144................................ March 1904
Haff, Edward Lawrence, America Lodge No. 475..................•.......February 15, 1900
Hall, Arthur S., Santa Monica Lodge No. 307..............................December 1. 1903
Hall, John Arre!, Wilshire Lodge No. 445....- ...........................•.... March 25, 1904
Halloran, Arthur Hobart, Occidental Lodge No. 22......................March 21. 1904
Hansen, Albert Christian, Sr., Salinas Lodge No. 204.................. 0ctober 30, 1903
Hansen, Albert Marquard Otto, San Mateo Lodge No. 226........ December 10, 1903
fiardenbergh, Percy Brush, Live Oak Lodge No. 61..-..·····--········April 29, 1904
Harford, Albert Kellogg, Sequoia Lodge No. 349.......................... December 12, 1902
Harlan, George Hillary, Mill Valley Lodge No. 356.................... August 8, 1904
Harper, Robert Bills, Anchor Lodge No. 273·-·······-·················-····December 14, 1901
Harris, Robert Lee, Eel River Lodge No. 147.......•........................0ctober 31, 1903
Harvey, Edwin Bishoff, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19...............•... _.August 5, 1903
liatch, Frederick William, Sequoia Lodge No. 349......................March l, 1900

52

NAMB AND LODGB

53

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
DATB OP RAISING

Hawkins, Jared Waldo, Modesto Lodge No. 675............ _........•..•1903
Hawley, Marcus Leo, East Gate Lodge No. 290.............. _............June 24, 1904
Hearn. William Steal, Signal Lodge No. 543...............·-··············November 21, 1903
Heath, Robert Lee, Golden State Lodge No. 358..........·-···········-··0ctober 2, 1903
Heffner, Robert A., Southern California Lodge No. 278..........-.September 16, 1903
Heineman, Irving S., Fidelity Lodge No. 120_.•..................•....•. _... November 28, 1903
Heinicke, William Frederick, Doric Lodge No. 216....·-···-··-·-·April 19, 1903
Heitman, Frederick William, Yosemite Lodge No. 99........•--September 20, 1904
Henlt:z:elman, Andrew Carnegie, South Pasadena No. 367............January 20, 1903
Henderson, Herbert Beal, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225............ ·-·---January 26, 1904
Henderson, Robert Leon, Loyalton Lodge No. 359........................April 23, 1904
Herwig, John N., Pomona Lodge No. 246.-................................... November 10, 1903
Heuer, August Ferdinand, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30...·-·····-·--July 19, 1904
Hill, Charles Caleb, Wasco Lodge No. 583.....·-·-······-········-·····-May 26, 1898
Hill, Charles Edward, Union Lodge No. 58..·-·····-·-···········---June 29, 1904
Hinton, US. Grant, Rising Light Lodge No. 397....................-April 26, 1904
Hitchcock, William E .. San Bernardino Lodge No. 348..•.. _.........August 28, 1903
Hoar, William Pancoast, Howard Lodge No. 37...................._....April 14, 1904
Holcomb, Chester E .. Anaheim Lodge No. 201----····--··---February 13, 1904
Holt, Cyril Edward. California Lodge No. 1-···-··----Septem ber 10, 1903
Holmes, Harold Charles, Doric Lodge No. 216...........................-.November 26, 1903
Homan, Frank Andrew, Fresno Lodge No. 247..........- ..............-February 13, 1903
Hopperstead, Eric Warren. South Gate Lodge No. 320..............July 15, 1904
Horton, Alvin, Berkeley Lodge No. 363-·---·--··- ······-----···---September 30, 1903
Houston, Charles James, Park Lodge No. +f9........ ----··················.April 18, 1904
Houston, No11man C., Escalon Lodge No. 591.........................._....0ctober 10, 1903
Huff, William Frederic, Long Beach Lodge No. 327.....'"-····-····-May 26, 1904
Hughes, George A., Paul Revere Lodge No. 462...·-···--····-·······November 12, 1903
Hughes, Samuel, Berkeley Lodge No. 363....·--·······-············--January 10, 1903
Hull, Frank Melville, Elysian Lodge No. 418---··-····-······----No vember 26, 1900
Hume, Joseph Patrick, Atwater Lodge No. 622.·-·······-·····-·····---Jun e 19, 1901
Hunsicker, Jeremiah Emanuel, Golden Gate No. 30......................September 28, 1904
Huntoon, Joseph H., San Jacinto Lodge No. 338...·-···············-····-0ctober 20, 1902
Hurlbut, Robert Ward, Lassen Lodge No. 149.------···-----Jul y 7, 1904
Hurst, Albert E., Covina Lodge No. ™-····---··-·-·-- -July 28, 1903
Hurst, Oharles Josiah, Covina Lodge No. 334...........................- ...August 13, 1903
Hutt, James Hagar, Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422............................January 2, 1904
Hyer, John Jacob, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260...·-···-······---May 31, 1904
Isaacs, Frank, PacHk Lodge No. 136-·-·-·······--···-·········· --···-.l)ecember 5, 1903
lvarson. Mathias, Compass Lodge No. 590...._ .....:.......... ______ June 4, 1904
Iverson, Josias, Alpha Lodge No. 431----,..·--·--·-·· --December 2, 1902
Ives, Claude Dean, Arlington Lodge No. 414-··--··---Jun e 10, 1897
acobs, Abraham, Fidelity Lodge No. 120-....~·-·-····-··········-········June 23, 1904
effers, Milo Sidney, California Lodge No. 1.................... _..........September 25, 1902
effery, Charles Alexander, Sequoia Lodge No. 349......................0ctober 19, 1903
effreys, Herbert Morgan, Oriental Lodge No. 144........................May 10, 1904
ohnson, M. Durward, South West Lodge No. 283._. __.. _....April 25, 1903
ohnston, Sr., James Franklin, Triangle Lodge No. 548..........-April 7, 1904
Junger, William Fred, Highland Park Lodge No. 382................-May 9, 1901

J

J

Kalcheim, Eleias Assac, West Gate Lodge No. 335......................July 2, 1903
Keese, Roy Boardman, East Gate Lodge No. 290..·-·········-····-January 26, 1904
Kerth, George F., San Diego Lod11e No. 35.................................. _November 9, 1903
Kinney, Charles Lewis, Coalinga Lodge No. 387.·-·······-···---Pebru ary 20, 1904
Kitchen, John, Jr., Golden Gate Lodge No. 30........••...........•.....- ..February 23, 1904
Klein, Louis Julius, Occidental Lodge No. 22-...·-·····-····-····-·····September 24, 1904
Klienhaupt, Moses, Pacific Lodge No. 136.-..................................August 26, 1904
Kline, Sr.. Chester M.. San Jacipto Lodge No. 338--····--·April 5, 1904
Klinkner, Herman Park, Sequoia Lodge No. 349.................;...."'..4'pril 18, 1904

NAMB AND LODGE

DATB OP RAISING

Korn, Seymour, Concord Lodge No. 117.-.....·--··~·····-····---A1J9Uit 9, 1904
Kraemer, William H., West Lake Lodge No. 392........................ March 8, 1904
Krebs, Harry Garfield, Union Lodge No. 58..·-·-···-···············--JUDe 14, 1904
Kroeger, Charles Herman, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38...·-·····-..-··· une 20, 1904
Lachman. ·Gustave, Pacific Lodge No. 136.•~-·-·-··········-··············November 27, 1903
Lansburgh, Simon Lazarus, Fidelity Lod~e No. 120...................... 0ctober 8, 1903
Lantz, John Delbert, Jr., Oroville Lodge No. 103..........................May 24, 1904
[.armee, John, San Pedro Lodge No. 332.................................- ..... February 25, 1904
Laumelster, Gustav, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346...·- ·········-·········-····December 5, 1903
Lawson. James Barnett, Visalia Lodge No. 128...........................-.0ctober 22, 1903
Lefevre, Louis Anton. Live Oak Lodge No. 61..............................0ctober 30, 1903
Lehousse, Louis G.. Fidelity Lodge No. 120.·-············-················~ovember 28, 1903
Leider, Albert Christan Frederick, Mission No. 169...................... November 11, 1903
Leonard. Adam Ahl. South Pasadena Lodge No. 367 ....·-·-········--September 16, 1902
Lester, Albert Mona, Carmel Lodge No. 680.............................,....April 21. 1904
Levens, Harry S., Marin Lodge No. 191........................................ 0ctober 10, 1903
Levy, Fernand A., San Mateo Lodge No. 226...........·-···-·······-June 30, 1904
Lewis, Walter James, Travelers Lodge No, 692·-··-·····················September 19, 1904
IJebman, Lloyd Harry, Benicia Lodge No. 5....- ............................ August 25, 1904
IJght, Edward Ephriam, Calistoga Lodge No. 233·-··········-······December 12, 1903
Lindsay, Thomas, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44....•.....•________ November 21, 1903
Llewellyn, David Edgar, West Gate Lodge No. 335 ..•..---·-·--January 22. 1903
Loewy. Edmund, Fidelity Lodge No. 120--·-··-···-············--September 10, 1903
Low. Thomas Griffin, California Lodge No. L--··-··--·····-······November 12, 1903
Lowe, John Hall, Crockett Lodge No. 139..•·---··········-···----AJ>r il 9, 1902
Lubbock, Oswald J., Oak Grove Lodge No. 215..·-······-··············-May 23, 1903
Luttrell, Charles James, Howard Lodge No. 37_····-······················December 23, 1903
McCluskey, Alexander, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57.....·-···-·--··--Nowmher 4, 1901
McGowan. Warren Emerson, Live Oak Lodge No. 61....·--···--·January 29, 1904
McGuffick, George Nelson, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244................•... February 11, 1904
McKeown, Andrew McNeill, Crocker Lodge No. 454.................. September 12, 1903
McMillan, Alfrad Ernest, Presidio Lodge No.. 354............-·-·····.l)«ember 2, 1898
McMullen, Irving H., Richmond Lod~e No. 375...- -·------December 9, 1903
McMurray, Theodore Zelim, Tyrian Lodge No. 439_ _ _ _ April 2, 1904
Macdonald, Angus D., Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.....;..................May 15, 1901
Macomber, Fred, R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616...- ...........·-·-·----='pril 19, 1904
March 19, 1904
Malone, George Edward, Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297___
Manuel, Sr., John A., Ophir Lodge No. 33·-··-·-··-····- ··············-November 4, 1903
Manuel, Raymond Thomas, Delta Lodge No. 471 ..- .................... November 4, 1903
Mariotte, Paul Alonzo, Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403.................... November 2, 1903
Marlowe, Thomas Oarence, Pasadena Lodge No. 272..·--··-···November 5, 1903
Martin. John Franklin, El Segundo Lodge No. 507....•_______ JuJy 24, 1902
Maseman, Charles Louis, Corinthian Lodge No. 9.·-·-·····-··········November 17, 1903
Meckel, Frederick Christan, Trinity Lodge No. 27...................-.February 19, 1904
Meltzer, Edward Alvin, East San Diego No. 561..•.•..........___ _March 5, 1902
M"ensing, Harry Rudolph, Acalanes Lodge No. 723.....................July 25, 1903
Merrill, William Wallace, Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627..- ...... March 7, 1904
Meyer, Martin S., Pacific Lodge No. 136.......·-·····-···········--··0ctob er 23, 1903
Miller, Charles Henry, Sunset Lodge No. 352...--~·-······-··-···-····February 22, 1904
Miller, Harry C., Los Angeles Lodge No. 42...·-····-···-·-···········November 30, 1903
Miller, John B., San Benito Lod_ge No. 211... .................................April 23, 1904
Miller, Samuel Tilden, Lindsay Lodge No. 416.............................. March 18, 1904
Miller, ~sses Grant, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367............... June 18, 1903
illiam David, R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616.................... February 22, 1904
Miller,
Milne. George Anthony, North Star Lodge No. 91........................April 23, 1902
Mitchell, Ray, San Pedro Lodge No. 332-·-·········-··---··- ··February 19, 1904
Moocur, Hugh Dicbon, Enterprise ~ge No. 70..........·-··-·····April H. 1904
Moore, James Henry, Stockton Lodge No. 498.........·-···-···--·-April 27, 1904

54

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

55

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE OF RAISING

Moore, Royal T .. San Joaquin Lodge No. 19.·-···········-···········---January 4, 1904
Morelli, Lee Gaudenzio, Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295.................... September 30, 1903
Morris, Isidor Frederick, Tehama Lodge No. 3...........................-.December 14, 1903
Moss, Rowland. Silveyville Lodge No. 20L-···-····················-June 25, 1904
Mudd, Jay Leroy, Yosemite Lodge No. 99-·····-···--··············-····--March 5, 1904
Mummert, Austin J., Utopia Lodge No. 537--·······-·--·····-··----May 20, 1902
Murray, Percy Victor, Mission Lodge No. 169..............................January 12, 1902
Myers, Robert, Fidelity Lodge No. 120..·--···································0ctober 22, 1903
Nauert, August Bertram, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260............April 19, 1904
Neail, Isaac, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206............................................February 29, 1904
Nelson, Lloyd Orman, Live Oak Lodge No. 61... ......................... November 27, 1903
Newfield, Joseph K., Lodi Lodge No. 256--·····--········-···-···-·····1903
Newill, Albert H., Victory Lodge No. 474....---··········-·····-····September 5, 1902
Nickerson, Frank William, California Lodge No. 1.................- ..September 3, 1903
Northrup, William Moulton, Alhambra Lodge No. 322.....- ......... December II, 1903
Norton, Slocum Barker, Arlington Lodge No. 414.....................-March 17, 1900
Nowlin, Andrew B., Russian River Lodge No. 181...........- .........September 6, 1903
Oakes, Charles Eric, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57_······-···-···-··-June 20, 1904
Pagels, Edward, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215.................................. July 28, 1903
Palmer, Edward, Crockett Lodge No. 139.........- ........................... November 25, 1903
Palmer, Edwin Alexander, Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448 ............0ctober 11, 1902
Palmtag, Christie Henry, Humboldt Lodge No. 79.·-·················-·September I, 1903
Pardee, James August, Lassen Lodge No. 149...........................- ...February 15, 1904
Parker, Robert L .. Alpha Lodge No. 431...·-····························-····January 14. 1904
Payne, Joseph Leonard, Golden State Lodge No. 358....-·····-····February 25, 1904
Peck, Clarence Edwin, Roseville Lodge No. 222............................ December 12, 1903
PenBeld, Herbert Jefferson, North Hollywood No. 542..........- ....March 19, 1904
Perry, Henry Lee, Argonne Lodge No. 514.....·- ········---·············-July 16, 1904
Perry, Victor Elmo, San Francisco Lodge No. 360.......·-···---April 15, 1904
Philbrick, Walter Jacob, Occidental Lodge No. 22........................March 12, 1904
Phillips, Edwin Roscoe, Golden State Lodge No. 358..................March 9, 1903
Phillips, Joseph James, Doric Lodge No. 216.................................. 0ctober 29, 1903
Pickerill, Ernest Fred, Hanford Lodge No. 279.............................. July 18, 1903
Pilcher. William Henry Hamilton, Whittier No. 323....................May 5, 1903
Place, John Norton. Sierra Valley Lodge No. 184........................ April 8, 1903
Plagemann, Walter Otto Henry, Presidio Lodge No. 354............February 25, 1904
Poppett, Edward, San Bernardino Lodge No. 348...............______June 30, 1903
Priaulx, Percival J., Corona Lodge No. 324....·-··············-·-····--·March 24, 1904
Prior, Clark Churchill, Occidental Lodge No. 22...............- ......_November 30, 1903
Procter, David Clinton, LaFayette Lodge No. 126......·-·····-·-····April 20, 1904
Purlenky, George Philip, Arcata Lodge No. 106..._____________ November 11, 1901
Quillin, Asbury F., Corona Lodge No. 324---···-·-·······-···········August 11, 1903
Rasmussen, Peter, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215...- .........................November 5, 1903
Raynor, Clarence Rathborn. Moneta Lodge No. 405....................July 24, 1903
Rees, Cassius Alfred, Whittier Lodge No. 323..............................May 12, 1904
Reynolds, George Daniel, Yount Lodge No. 12............................ December 8, 1903
Riblet, Henry Nelson, Petaluma Lodge No. 180............................ November 27, 1903
Richter, Charles Herman, Western Star Lodge No. 2..................July 11, 1903
Rickett, Walter L., Union Lodge No. 58........................................June 30, 1904
Rier, August Frederick, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.............. February 22, 1904
Ripperdan, Oswell Thomas, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30..............January 26, 1904
Rodgers, Frank, Pajaro Lodge No. 110.·-·········--····················-···0ctober 28, 1903
Rolph, Ronald Taylor, Mission Lodge No. 169..............................June 18, 1904
Rossler, Charles Augustine, Oakland Lodge No. 188......·-·····----June 25, 1904
Ruppenthal, Henry Charles, San Bernardino No. 348............_ ...March 7, 1903
Salz, Ansley Kullman, Benicia Lodge No. 5.·--··············-·-·····-··-0ctober 24, 1903

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OF RAISING

Saunders, Benjamin Rankin, Redwood City No. 168.................._September 5, 1903
Sawyer, Fred Earl, Marin Lodge No. 191.................................- ...0ctober 12, 1903
Saxe, Robert Edward, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30_......................0ctober 31, 1903
Schroeder, Marion, Loyalton No. 359......·-··················-···-···········.August 22, 1904
Schroeter, Robert George, East Gate No. 290................................September 16, 1904
Schumacher, William Edward, Alpha Lodge No. 431..................December 8, 1903
Schurr, John Marshall, Oakland Lodge No. 188............................July 21, 1902
Schween, Walter James, Alisa) Lodge No. 321............. ,................June 25, 1904
Schweitzer, Charles George, Golden State No. 358..........._.......-August 24, 1904
Sels, Maurits Carel Constantyne Van Loben, Franklin No. 143..December 21, 1903
Shaw, Clark Hervey, Long Beach Lodge No. 327........................November 5, 1903
Sheffield, Leslie Ellsworth, Los Gatos Lodge No. 292..................August 12, 1904
Sherer, Robert, Palestine Lodge No. 351.....................--··········-···-September 25, 1903
Shupe. Charles Robert, Madera Lodge No. 280..............- ........-June 24, 1904
Sillers, Andrew Robertson, Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511... .............August 2, 1904
$immie, Albert Tait, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30..........................August 30, 1904
Simmons, Don Otho, Rosemead Lodge No. 702............................Decemher 5, 1902
Simon, Harry Lewis, Starr King Lodge No. 344..........................March 17, 1904
Simpson, Frank Berry, Friendship Lodge No. 310........................Decemher 9, 1903
Small. John Adams, Oxnard Lodge No. 341..................................January 16, 1904
Smilie, James Alexander, Oakland Lodge No. 188........................March 26, 1904
Smith, Beverly Bailes, Sun Garden Lodge No. 530.....................•0ctober 29, 1903
Smith. Robert Hunter, Ferndale Lodge No. 193............................November 7, 1903
Snead, Albert Charles, Oakland Lodge No. 188............................ November 17, 1903
Sorenson, Peter Karl Kristian, Solano Lodge No. 229..................May 18, 1903
Soule, Edward Lee, Durant Lodge No. 268................................. -.March 25 1904
Spowart, John Beverage, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260............0ctober J, 1903
Sprague, Benjamin Raymond, Hemet Lodge No. 615..................0ctober 3, 1902
Stackpole, Frank H., Pacific Lodge No. 136..................... ·-······--·Deeember 26, 1903
Stafford, John J., Speranza ltaliana Lodge No. 219................ ·---1902
Stalnaker, Russell Howard, Sacramento Lodge No. 40............ __ March 31, 1904
Stansifer, William H., San Jacinto Lodge No. 338................ ~ ....... September 9, 1901
Stearns, William Nathan, El Dorado Lodge No. 26....................May 26, 1904
Stedman, Franl9, Needles Lodge No. 326..- ....................................July 1, 1904
Stephens, Philip, Golden State Lodge No. 358..............................June 14, 1902
Steiert, Carl Christian, East Gate Lodge No. 290........................November 13, 1903
Stern, Gustav, West Gate Lodge No. 335_······-···························-luly 9, 1903
Stites, Joseph Augustus, Live Oak Lodg_e No. 61.......................... becember 7, 1902
Stites, Samuel Edwin, Snow Mountain Lodge No. 27L.............February 27, 1904
Stone, Harry Eli, East Gate Lodge No. 290...............................-.0ctober 5, 1904
Stowe, Charles Edward, Brooklt!dLodge No. 225........·-·····-······February 23, 1904
Stratford, Harry James, Marin
~e No. 19L·-·--····-··--·········--March 2, 1904
Strohmeier, Otto, Presidio Lodt,d o. 354......................·--···-····.April 29, 1904
Stuff, Rollin Harry, All States
ge No. 593......·-·-·-·······----January 26, 1904
Swanson, Gustaf Henry, Mendocino Lodge No. 179....................July 23, 1904
Swegles, William, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206................................February 15, 1904
Sylvester, William Ray, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241...................... 0ctober 21, 1903
Symmons, Samuel James, Live Oak Lodge No. 61........·-·-····---July 29, 1904
Tank, Julius, Signal Lodge No. 543...................·-·················-········MaY 16, 1904
TTaylor, Henry Kingman, Golden State Lodge No. 358................ March 2, 1903
aylor, Rodman "M," Park Lodge No. +49.....•.·-··-·-·········-·······May 7, 1904
~averner, George Moore, Elk Grove Lodge No. 173.................... November 28, 1903
~Ellwood Allen, Delta Lodge No. 471...................................... August 24, 1904
Th as, Joseph Addison, Caledonia Lodge No. 486...................... November 6, 1903
Thomas, W. Fred, Evergreen Lodge No. 259.............. _................ March 6, 1902
Thomas, Wade Hampton, Sequoia Lodge No. 349........................ August 14, 1903
ompson, George F .. Pacific Lodge No. 136·-··················-···----APril 29, 1904
Thurber, Edward Robinson, Jr., Vacaville Lodge No. 134..........Jantiary 22, 1904
'r.
T,'ooby, Ernest Norton, Ferndale Lodge No. 193......................-.-.June 21, 1902
ownsend, Arthur Chrisholm, San Jose Lodge No. 10......... ______ April 18, 1904

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Tracy, Clifton Howard, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21...•.•..............•.- .. May 11, 1904
Triest, Joseph, Lincoln Lodge No. 470..·--·····································August l, 1903
Trotter, George Thomas, Madison Lodge No. 23.......................... September 29, 1903
Tucker, Ira Lester, Oroville Lodge No. 103-········-····················-June 7, 1904
Upham, Harry G., Covina Lodge No. 334......................................January 24, 1899
Uren, Richard Samuel, Utopia Lodge No. 537.........- ...................0ctober 27, 1903
Vandegrift, Samuel A., Table Mountain Lod9e No. 124..............January 30, 1904
Vensano, Harry Chittenden, Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44..........June 29, 1904
Vest. Joseph Leroy, Monrovia Lodge No. 308..............................February 29, 1904
Vogelgesang, Gustave David, Calaveras Lodge No. 78................May 5, 1904
Von Der Leith, Harold Otto, Argonne Lodge No. 514..................June 13, 1900
von der Mehden, Jr., Jacob Louis, Hermann Lodge No. 127........ August 1. 1904
Voss, George Heinrich, Hartley Lodge No. 199............................April 9,-1904
Wagoner, William Gusham, Northern Light Lodge No. 190........March 12, 1904
Waldor.f, Creighton Orlin, West Gate Lodge No. 335..- ..............January 7, 1902
Wallace, Frederick James, Live Oak Lodge No. 61..._................. November 27, 1903
Ware, Thomas K., Security Lodge No. 581-...•..............................March l, 1904
Warren, Fred M., Palo Alto Lodge No. 346.............................•....April 30, 1904
Warren, Henry Elias, Buena Park Lodge No. 357....- ................ November 30, 1903
Watrous, Frank G., Neptune Lodge No. 619..................................June 1. 1904
Watson, Charles Morell, Palisades Lodgt! NQ. 637......................April 28, 1902
Watters. Thomas Sydney, Mill Valley Lodge No. 356................ February 8, 1904
Waugh, Herbert Nicholson, Elysian Lodge No. 418.................... November 3, 1903
Webb, Christopher C., Marin Lodge No. 191................................April 29. 1904
Weber, Adolph Hans, Charter Rock Lodge No. 410....................0ctober 22, 1903
Webster, John Henry, Occidental Lodge No. 22............................January 7, 1904
Weitzenberg, William Frederick Joseph, Presidio No. 354..........March 24, 1904
Weller, Guy V., Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361.......•..........................August 8, 1904
Westerling, David Elias, Mount Olive Lodge No. 506................November 30, 1900
Wetherbee, Charles, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260....................0ctober 19, 1903
Whaley, Thomas Joseph, Marin Lodge No. 191............................ December 2, 1903
White, Calvin Alfred, Valley Forge Lodge No. 587....................August 20, 1904
White, Howard Collins, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19......................July 5, 1901
Wicklow, James, Fairmount Lodge No. 435....,............................... 0ctober 29, 1900
Wilkie, John Blues, Benicia Lodge No. S..............·-····-·······-···-··August 26, 1902
Wilson, David, Mount Moriah Lod9e No. 44................................July W, 1904
Wilson, George Benton, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202........................March 5, 1903
Wilson, Lawrence H., Russian River Lodge No. 181....................Septembet 4, 1901
Wolfe, Burgoyne Ellsworth, York Lodge No. 423........................January 19, 1904
Wood, Hart, Oakland Lodge No. 188..............................................July 30, 1904
Woolner, Henry Sigmund, West Gate Lodge No. 335................November 19, 1903
Woolsey, Chester Howard, Oriental Lodge No. 144....................May 6, 1904
Woy, Charles Wilbur, Pomona Lodge No. 246....- ......................March 18, 1904
Wreden, Henry, Crockett Lodge No. 139.-.......................:...........0ctober 28, 1903
Wretman, Niles Emil, San Jose Lodge No. 10............................_September 14. 1903
Wright, William Quinby, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30..................August l, 1904
Young, Perley Andrew.El Dorado Lodge No. 26....................- ... February 25, 1904
Youngberg, Charles John, California Lodge No. L......................May 14, 1904
Zena, Antone, Ontario Lodge No. 301..........·-····-········-··············0ctober 30, 1903

~~

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

At 12:45 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :45 P. M.

57

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, October 11, 1954
At 2:00 P. M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master pre~
siding.
Telegrams and messages of congratulations were received at different
times during the Communication from Past Grand Master Samuel E.
Burke; C. A. Carlson, Jr., Past Grand Master of Nevada; Albert J. De
Lange, Past Grand Master of Texas and the International Order of
Job's Daughters.
The Grand Secretary reported that by direction of the Grand Master
he had forwarded telegrams to those Past Grand Masters of this juri~
diction who had been prevented from attending the Communication.
REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Another year has passed swiftly by, and it is again my duty to ren~
der an account of the activities of the Grand Lecturer and the Ritual
Committee since the last Communication of Grand Lodge.
At the end of last year Bro. Augustus H. Allen retired as Assistant
Grand Lecturer for Division Six, a great personal loss to all of the mem~
hers of the Ritual Committee. Grand Lodge is fortunate in being able
to retain his services in another capacity. His successor, Bro. Clark H.
Shaw, comes to the Committee after 43 years of service as an Inspector,
a length of shvice which wiU probably never by equalled.
It was my pleasant duty last Spring to attend all of the Conferences
of Inspectors, conducted by the Assistant Grand Lecturers, as follows:
Division 1 and 2, at Bijou, Lake Tahoe, June 18-20, 1954,
conducted by Worshipful Clare B. Campbell and Worshipful
Ralph M. Foote, jointly.
Division 3, at Guerneville, May 7~9. 1954, conducted by
Worshipful Arthur J. Kahn.
Division 4, at Yosemite Valley, June 11-13, 1954, conducted
by Worshipful Raymond G. Taylor.
Division 5, at Santa Barbara, April 23~25, 1954, conducted
by Worshipful Guy B. Mize.
Division 6, at Del Mar, March 26-28, 1954, conducted by
Worshipful Clark H. Shaw.
At each of these Conferences, the work was fully performed by the
hspectors of the Division in excellent manner. The Grand Master was
present at three of the Conferences, and at three of them the Grand
~cretary spoke to the Inspectors on matters of timely interest. We were
also favored at some of the meetings by the presence of the Deputy

58

59

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Grand Master and Senior Grand Warden. At their Conferences, the
Inspectors of Divisions One, Two, Four and Six had perfect attendance records.
At each of the Conferences, meetings of the Ritual Committee were
held, to consider various matters relating to the uniformity of the work.
A special meeting of the Committee was also held in San Francisco on
November 28th and 29th, 1953, with all members of the Committee present, at which meeting the work of the three degrees and candidates lectures were reviewed and performed.
I am deeply appreciative of the arduous and faithful services of the
brethren who serve you as Assistant Grand Lecturers. I have often expressed my appreciation of the services rendered by the members of
the Inspectoral Corps. I do not think enough praise can be given these
flne brethren.
Reports have been received from all Inspectors in the jurisdiction,
as required by section 53 of the Ordinances. These reports conflrm the
fact that our Lodges generally are in good working condition and that
their officers are maintaining a satisfactory standard of proficiency; and
in those cases where that condition does not prevail, steps are being
taken :by the Inspectors to correct any defects.
Last year, Grand Master Warren requested the Ritual Committe~
to make an interpretation of the funeral service as it pertains to the use
of officers' aprons and jewels. Different practices have prevailed in different localities and lodges. The Committee ruled that while in a lodgeroom service, jewels and officers' aprons were proper and required,
nevertheless for a funeral service outside of the lodgeroom only white
aprons should be worn ·by officers and members alike, without jewels,
and that the Master should use neither hat nor gavel. The written ceremony does not require jewels or officers' aprons. The ruling was made
to secure uniformity and also to eliminate certain incider>ts which have
occurred in the past and have brought criticism on the Craft.
Another matter which came to the Committee's attention during the
year was the use of lantern slides in giving the Master's Lectures in the
flrst and third degrees. The Committee ruled that lantern slides and
other pictorial representations were no part of the lectures as taught in
this jurisdiction, and could not be used in giving of the lectures.
It has been reported to me that there has been a reappearance of
codes or cipher rituals in certain parts of the jurisdiction. I need not
remind the Masters and Wardens-that the use. and even the possession,
of cipher rituals is a violation of our law, and will subject the possessor
to Masonic discipline. (Ross Dig., secs. 502-504.) The Masters should
see to it that these ciphers are eliminated. The Inspectors have been requested to see that the law is enforced.
The Grand Master recently requested the Ritual Committee to rec-

ommend changes in the Monitor and Officers' Manual to make the second order of business at stated meetings, that is, Reports of Investigating ·Committees, conform to the order of business as provided in the
Uniform Code of By-laws, so that the committee reports will be made
under this order of business rather than under the third heading of
"Balloting.'' which follows, or may follow, one type of committee report,
namely a favorable report. A resolution to amend the Monitor in this
respect has been prepared and will be presented.
Your Committee recommends two small changes in the ceremony of
Reception of the Flag. The flrst proposed change is to make the movements of the Deacons correspond to those in the retirement of the Flag,
namely, to have the Deacons go to the altar with the Marshal when he
retires to present the Flag. This will eliminate the straggling of the
Deacons to the door, and in our opinion will add to the dignity of the
ceremony. The second change is to add what is now actually done in
practice, that is, for the Marshal to place his right hand over his heart
after placing the Flag in the East, or just before taking it to retire it.
A resolution to amend the Monitor in this respect has been prepared
and will be presented. Another change which needs no authorization is
the change in the Pledge of Allegiance recently approved by the Congress of the United States, "one nation, under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all."
In closing, may I express my appreciation to the Grand Master for
his many courtesies. and to the Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand
Secretary for, the many helpful things the Grand Lodge office has done
for me and the Ritual Committee throughout the year, and to you, my
brethren. for the privilege of serving you.
Respectfully submitted,
ELBERT

w. DAVIS

Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

60

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MESSAGE OF THE GRAN D MASTE R
FRANK HARWEL L, JR., Grand Master

Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
One year ago you elected me to the office of Grand Master. My
term of office ends with the close of this annual communication. It
now becomes the duty of the Grand Master to present to you "a written
message. therein setting forth all his official acts during the year, exhibiting the general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction, and recommending such legislation as he may deem necessar y or expedient for the
welfare of the craft."
In complying with this duty, may I first express my appreciation for
the honor you conforre d and for the opportun ity it gave me for service
to our fraternity . They are both great. Unless and until he occupies
this office no man can envision the manifold responsibilities it entails. It
is equally true that he cannot foresee the loyalty, the thoughtf ulness and
the support which he receives from his brethren over the length and
breadth of this large jurisdiction. I am deeply grateful. In presentin g
the account of my stewards hip for your final judgmen t, I tell you in all
sincerity that most of it could not have been accomplished without that
loyal aid. I want each one of you to know, and I wish the record to
show, that I acknowl edge this with heartfelt thanks.
STATE OP THE FRATERN ITY

I am satisfied to report that in my judgmen t the state of the fraternity is of the highest. The Masons I have met and talked with during
the year impress me with their earnest regard for the welfare of the fraternity. They impress me with their concern for the best interests of
the State and Nation. In every community I visited Masons are amon~
the civic leaders, assuming and discharg ing their civic responsibilities .
You may be justly proud of your fraternal relationship.
The reports of the Grand Treasure r and the Grand Secretar y indicate the sound financial condition of your Grand Lodge. With very few
exceptions the same condition exists in the constitue nt Lodges. Several
years ago you amended our Regulations to provide for the investment of
funds of Grand Lodge, the Homes, the Endowm ent Fund, and the
Lodges under a qualified interpret ation of the so-called Prudent Man
Rule. The various financial reports on these funds indicate the wisdom
of that move. We acknowl edge our debt to the members of the Investment Committee of Grand Lodge who have so ably and successfully
directed this vital activity.
The Grand Secretar y's report shows th.a t our membership continues
to increase. There are reasons to believe that the desire of men today to

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

61

ftnd an Institution whose philosophy and aims challenge their interest is
resulting in steady growth and better attendan ce and lessening the dry
rot which has afflicted us at times.
The Sojourne rs Committee has initiated a program this year which
has aroused the interest of most of our Lodges. The reports of Masters
sent to me show that plans are under way which are causing the Masons
of other jurisdictions, who are permane ntly residing in our midst, to seek
local affiliation and renew the bond of fellowship.
No doubt this has played a part in the unusually large number of
petitions for Dispensa tions to form new Lodges which we have received.
As we begin this communication 17 Lodges are under dispensation. This
indicates a healthy condition, particula rly so because the prelimin ary reports on these groups have shown them to be uniformly composed of
men of standing in their respective communities: that they have secured
adequate Lodge rooms and provided sound financial structure s. With
the continued growth of population this favorable trend should persist.
However , it ·poses three problems. The first is the increasing burden
placed on the Charters Committee, which does such fine and indispensible work in the preliminary survey made for the Grand Master. Although this committee was enlarged last year, I recommend that Grand
·
Lodge give consider ation to its further enlargem ent.
rs
Inspecto
The second problem is the increasing burden placed on the
in
assist
who
ians
who have -been humorously described as the obstetric
is
rs
Inspecto
the
of
e
assistanc
The
bringing these babies into the world.
districts
new
of
n
formatio
the
by
met
being
is
invaluable. This problem
as capable men for the office of Inspector can be found.
The third problem is to find suitable meeting places. One of the most
notable developments of recent years is the growth of new lodge halls,
which are being built in most instances almost entirely with the volunteer labor of the members. They are, indeed. ornamen ts to their cities,
spacious and dignified, and either free of debt or rapidly discharg ing the
remainder. If this spirit of enterpris e continues to actuate our brethren ,
the problem of halls for our new lodges will be solved.
It has been my good fortune to serve as a Trustee of our Masonic
Homes, off and on, for the last eight years. I can report from firsthand experience that our two Homes are providing for the needs of the
residents in a manner which assures their welfare and comfort. Problems
of staff, admissions, finance, and scores of vexing details are constantfy
before your Board of Trustees who regularly meet in sectional and joint
sessions and devote many hours of unselfish service.
. You may well be proud of your Homes and the support you give
them. The best evidence of your support is the growing Endowm ent
Fund. I commend the Boards of this Fund and of the Homes for the
fine motion picture which they jointly produced . It has been most favor-

63

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ably received and has had much to do with increasing the interest in
our Homes and maintaining the steady expansion of the Fund.
A delightful dinner and reception was tendered the Grand Master by
the Directors, staff and students at each of our clubhouses at Berkeley
and Los Angeles. While the enthusiasm of those students participating
is high and the administration is efficient, the situation still leaves much
to be desired. At considerable outlay for initial construction and equip~
ment, and for current operating expense, you have provided these ex~
ceptional clubhouses which are being used to less than 50% of capacity.
I note that previous Grand Masters have expressed similar concern.
Some have suggested means by which a larger student participation
could be encouraged. We are still confronted with the same problem.
Although I confess that I have not found the answer, I have a file of suggestions sent to me, which I am turning over to my successor with the
recommendation that he and the directors try once more to bring about
·a larger use of these excellent facilities.

For the past several years this annual communication has been held
without the presence of Most Worshipful James B. Gist, because of
illness. We were all saddened to learn of his death on April 25. 1954.
Brother Gist was elected and installed Grand Master in October 1933.
He served faithfully and effectively for many years as Trustee of our
Masonic Homes until ill health forced his retirement in 1946. Jim, as he
was familiarly and affectionately known to his many friends, was more
than a brother to your Grand Master. I cannot too highly value his wise
counsel. which was always mine when I needed it, and I pay this personal tribute to a well-loved brother who was like another father.
One of the greatest personal blows to me, and one which I share
with Masons throughout this entire jurisdiction, was suffered in the
death of Most Worshipful William B. Ogden, which occurred in the
early morning hours of September 12, this year.
Brother Ogden had ·been in ill health for the last four years, but his
concern for the affairs of Masonry and his tremendous devotion to duty
never wavered. In my last conversation with him, he expressed the hope
that he would be well enough to attend this communication and discharge
the responsibilities of his position as chairman of the Policy and General
Purposes Committee, on which he had served with distinction since his
year as Grand Master in 1940.
I am sure I may be pardoned for this personal note in telling you
that Bill Ogden was my Inspector when I served in the chairs of my
Lodge. The schooling which I received from this Master of Ritual and
Masonic Law, and many other things not found in books, are lessons
which I shall •not forget. The imprint of his mind and character on
Masonry is deep and his memory is safely recorded in our hearts.
I opened Grand Lodge in Special Communication in Los Angeles on
Wednesday. September 15, 1954, and conducted the last rites for our
beloved brother.
Later in this communication suitable eulogies will be given for these
distinguished servants of Masonry.

62

GRAND LODGE COMMIITEES AND BOARDS

In reporting to you on the state of the fraternity, reference was made
to the fine work of several committees and boards. I have had occasion
to call on a number of committees for special service, and the response
has been prompt and conclusive. All of this work is going on quietly
behind the scenes. Many of these men are working for you the year
'round, and they are particularly commended.
The chairman of Public Schools Week Committee, George D. Gavin,
submitted to Freedom Foundation ali exhibit of the program for thi£
annual observance. It received the National Award. Our commendation is expressed to the committee. to its chairman, and to those former
members of the committee. all of whom have helped to bring the obser~
vance to this peak of recognition.
NECROLOGY

Your Grand Master had hardly entered upon the duties of his office
when he was shocked to receive word of the death of Most Worshipful
Claude H. Morrison on November 2, 1953. Brother Morrison was
elected and installed Grand Master in October 1943. · His service to
Masonry in that capacity and subsequently as a member and chairman of
the Finance Committee is unsurpassed. The fraternity and his friends
have suffered a great loss. I opened Grand Lodge in Special Communication in San Diego on November 6. 1953, and before a large gathering
of his friends. conducted Masonic services for our departed brother.

APPOINTMENTS

It has been necessary to make a number of appointments during the
year. Several of these are of such importance that I feel they should be
recorded here.
I appointed Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Mas~
ter, as Chairman of the Finance Committee to fill the vacancy created
by the death of Brother Morrison. We are fortunate that a man of
Brother Siems' ability and experience is available for this important
position.
To take Brother Siems' place on the Policy and General Purposes
CommiUee I appointed Ira W. Coburn, a Past Master of Doric Lodge

65

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALlPORNIA

No. 216 of San Francisco, who brings to this Committee much experience in business and fraternal affairs.
Because of the press of his private and civic responsibilities, I regretfully accepted the resignation of Augustus H. Allen as Assistant
Grand Lecturer of Division 6, where he has served since 1950 with much
credit and effectiveness. The fraternity has continuP.d to have his
service as a member of the Policy and General Purposes Committee.
To fill the vacancy thus created, I appointed the dean of the Inspectors, Clark H. Shaw. The appointment is well deserved and was received with the happy approval of his contemporaries.
A number of new Inspectors have been appointed due to resignations or the creation of new districts . . It is fortunate that in all instances
competent men were found to fill these important positions.
In accordance with the direction of Grand Lodge at its last communication, I appointed a special committee on Balloting composed of Thomas
B. Copeland, Chairman, Henry 0. Hammerich and Adam B. Morton.
The report will be given during this session.

November 20, 1953--at Redlands to constitute Yucaipa Lodge No.
.
726.
Hills Lodge
Verdugo
constitute
to
Glendale
1953-at
November 21,
No. 727.
November 23, 1953-at North Hollywood to constitute Home Lodge
No. 721.
November 24, 1953-at Long Beach to constitute Lakewood Lodge
No. 728.
December 4, 1953-at Cayucos to constitute Estero Lodge No. 719.
December 5, 1953-at Visalia to constitute Mineral :King Lodge No.
720.
December 12, 1953-at San Marino to lay the cornerstone for the
temple of San Marino Lodge No. 685.
January 12, 1954-at El Monte to lay the cornerstone for the temple
of Lexington Lodge No. 104. ·
January 16, I 954-at Larkspur to dedicate the temple of. Fairfax
.Jpdge No. 556.
February 5. I 954-at Ceres to dedicate the temple of Smyrna Lodge
No. 532.
March 6, I 954-at Brea to lay the cornerstone for the temple of Citro! Lodge No. 656.
March 20, 1954-at El Sereno to dedicate the temple of El Sereno
Lodge No. 588.
March 25, 1954-at Santa Barbara to lay the cornerstone of the new
Adams Elementpry Public School building.
April 7, 1954-at Chowchilla to dedicate the temple of Chowchilla
Lodge No. 485.
June 5. I 954-at South San Francisco to dedicate the temple of
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376.
June 26. 1954-at Compton to lay the cornerstone for the temple of
Anchor Lodge No. 273.
July 14, 1954-at Huntington Beach to dedicate the temple of Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380.
August 7, 1954-at Montrose to lay the cornerstone for the temple
of Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652.
August 14, 1954-at Rio Vista to dedicate the temple of Rio Vista
Lodge No. 208.
August 21, 1954-at Carpenteria to lay the cornersto~e of the new
Canalino Elementary Public School building.
September 11, 1954-at Taft to lay the cornerstone of the new
Roosevelt Public School building.
September 15, 1954-at Los Angeles to conduct the funeral of Most
Worshipful William Brayton Ogden, Past Grand Master.

RITUALISTIC WoRK

I am so recently from the ranks of the Inspectors and the Ritual Committee that my comments on this group could be suspected of prejudice.
If so, I must plead guilty for I do not know of any group of men who are
contributing more to the welfare and progress of the fraternity . In the
past year I was able to attend four of the six divisional conferences.
Based on these visits, my firsthand observance of ritual exemplification
in widely separted areas. and reports from others, I can state with confidence that the purity of the esoteric work is maintained, and that the
dignity and impressiveness with which it is presented is improving in
many areas.
SPECIAL COMMUNICATIO NS OP GRAND LODGE

I convened Grand Lodge in special communication at the times and
places and for the purposes indicated. as follows:
November 6, 1953--at San Diego to conduct the funeral of Most
Worshi-pful Claude H. Morrison, Past Grand Master.
November 12, 1953--at Santa Cruz to constitute San Lorenzo Valley
Lodge No. 718.
November 13, 1953-at San Jose to constitute Geo. E. Tutt Lodge No.
722.
November 14, 1953-at Lafayette to jointly constitute Acalan~s
Lodge No. 723, San Ramon Valley Lodge No. 724, and Saint Johns
Lodge No. 725.
November 18. 1953-at Lomita to dedicate the temple of Lomitll
Lodge No. 644.

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

September 25, 1954-at El Segundo to dedicate the temple of El
Segundo Lodge No. 507.
September 27, 1954-at El Monte to dedicate the temple of Lexington Lodge No. 104.
September 30, 1954-at San Marino to dedicate the temple of San
Marino Lodge No. 685.
A recapitulation of the foregoing official ceremonies shows that I
constituted eleven newly chartered Lodges, laid the cornerstones for
five new temples and three new public school buildings, and dedicated
eleven new Masonic Halls-a total of thirty official ceremonies in which
I participated personally.
It is of interest to note that, as Grand Master, I had the privilege of
laying the cornerstone and dedicating the completed temple for two of
our Lodges. I have not checked the record, but this may be a unique
experience for a Grand Master in California.
Because of a conflicting official engagement, at my request Right
Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Deputy Grand Master. <;onvened Grand
Lodge in special communication in Los Gatos on July 24, for the purpose
of laying the cornerstone of the temple of Los Gatos Lodge No. 292.
INSTITUTIONS, RECEPTIONS, VISITATIONS

In addition to the above ceremonies, I instituted nine Lodges, to
which I granted dispensations as follows:
January 15, 1954-San Juan Lodge U.D. at Sacramento.
April 10, 1954-Golden Empire Lodge U.D. and Kit Carson Lodge
U.D .. jointly at Sacramento.
June 3, 1954-Hillsborough Lodge U.D. at South San Francisco.
June 8, 1954-Arvin Lodge U.D. at Bakersfield.
July 20, 1954-0pportunity Lodge U.D. at Hawthorne.
August 18, 1954-Tyre Lodge U.D. at Downey.
August 26, 1954-Momingside Park Lodge U.D. at Inglewood.
August 31, 1954-0akwood Lodge U.D. at Glendale.
Duling my visits to the Lodges in the Islands and to the Grand
Lodge of Oregon, at my request, Right Worshipful Edgar V. Stewart,
Jr., Senior Grand Warden, performed the ceremony of Institution for
the followiing Lodges to which I granted dispensations:
May 12, 1954-0asis of Mara Lodge U.D. at Palm Springs.
May 15, 1954-Lemon Grove Lodge U.D. at San Diego.
June 15, 1954-La Canada Lodge U.D. at La Canada.
Dispensations for various purposes, which were issued by me, together with approval of amendments to By-laws are all included in the
report of the Grand Secretary.
·
The ceremony for dedicating school buildings was used for the first
time on February 6, 1954, at Vallejo when I had the pleasure of dedi-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

67

eating the newly completed Johnston H. C~per .Elementary Sch~l
building. This amounted to a community affair and is the type of public
activity which finds favorable response from the profane.
I was present and addressed all the traditional breakfasts, which
are fine and well attended events and have become fixtures throughout
the state.
· Fifteen of our Lodges celebrated their centennial in the past twelve
months. I was glad that my schedule made it possible for me to be
present and speak at ten of these, which proved to be occasions of much
joy. At my request Grand Lodge was represented at others by the
Deputy Grand Master and the Junior Grand Warden, with one or more
Past Grand Masters on hand at all of the occasions.
The official receptions tendered me ranged from Yreka in the north
to El Centro in the south and are too numerous to list individually. Together with official ceremonies and all other appearances, my visits covered 128 out of the total of 149 districts. Suffice it to say that the Grand
Master was received by large gatherings of the brethren with the dignity and courtesy which is accorded the office. I am grateful for the
arrangements made in every instance to assure the success of these meetings.
The above account of some of the events of the year indicates that it
was a fairly busy one. I regret that the limits of time and physical endurance prevented me from holding Masonic communication with all
my brethren.
CONFERENCE OF GRAND MASTERS IN NORTH AMERICA

I attended the Conference of Grand Masters in North America,
which is held annually in Washington, D. C., in the month of February.
Meeting at the same time are the Association of ~rand ~ecretaries a~d
the convention of the George Washington Masomc National Memorial
Association . . There were present with me from California the Deputy
Grand Master, the Grand Secretary, and Past Grand ·Masters John R.
Moore and Arthur M. Warren.
The Conference is a valuable one. It affords the only opportunity
for all the leaders of the fraternity in North America to become acquainted and discuss the common problems which confront us. The
papers presented, by and large, are comprehensive and authoritative. It
should be understood that the Conference is entirely informal, with no
binding or definitive action, thus preserving the sovereignty of all the
jurisdictions represented.
There will be presented later in the commun~cation a ~e~rt on ~he
George Washington Masonic National Memonal Association. which
will relate the current status of the memorial and its financial position.
The brethren may take pride in the fact that CaHfornia has discharged

68

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

its calculated obligation to the association. Although not entirely finished, the result is one of the most magnificent memorials ever erected
by man, and it is unthinkaible that the Masons of other jurisdictions who
are "dragging their feet" will longer delay in providing their share of
the cost of its completion and endowment.
California 1;1nd your Grand Master were honored when I was given
the privilege of laying a wreath on the tomb of Washington and addressing the gathering.
To complete the report on this trip, en route to Washington the
Grand Secretary and I spent several days in Mexico City, Guatemala
City and Havana. In each of these capitols we spent the entire time in
the company of Grand Masters and other Masonic leaders of these
jurisdictions which we recognize. Our purpose in making this trip was
to acquaint ourselves with the situation of the fraternity in each of
these countries. Every opportunity and facility were afforded us to do
so. This is not the place to give a detailed report on the conferences
we held and. the enlightening facts we obtained. There is nothing confidential in their nature. In fact, I have commented on them before
various meetings of the brethren in the past months. All of our findings
will be made available to the Grand Lodge Committee on Recognition
of Foreign Grand Lodges for its information and guidance.

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS

INTER-JURISDICTIONAL VISITATIONS

In accordance with the custom which has prevailed, I attended the
annual communication of the Grand Lodge of Oregon, which was held
in Portland in June. I have had the pleasure of knowing their Grand
Master, Grand Secretary and others when they have visited us. It was
delightful to renew these friendships and to be the recipient of their
gracious hospitality.
By my direction, we were represented at the communication of the
Grand Lodge of the State of Washington by Right Worshipful Henry
C. Clausen, Deputy Grand Master; at the communication of the Grand
Lodge of Arizona by Right Worshipful Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.• Senior ·
Grand Warden; at the communication of the Grand Lodge of Nevada
by Right Worshipful L. Harold Anderson, Junior Grand Warden; and
at the communication of the Grand Lodge of Utah by Most Worshipful
Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary. All these brethren report that their
visits were most pleasant and beneficial.
I strongly recommend the continuation of these visits. They serve to
maintain and strengthen the long standing ties of close fraternal relationship existing with our neighboring jurisdictions.

69

On April 30. I boarded the S.S. "Lurline" to make a visit to our
Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands. The succeeding thirty days were filled
with a variety of memorable scenes and events, but none more so than
the inspiring sight of our Masonic emblem flying from the forepeak of
the ship as she steamed out of the harbor.
The hospitality of the people of the Islands is more than a tradition. It is a part of their nature and could not be more sincerely demonstrated than by the manner in which the Grand Master is annually received. Every thought is given to his convenience, comfort and pleasure.
Let me record my deep appreciation.
It seems to be the habit of most of the Grand Masters to attempt
to describe the beauties of the Islands. I shall be satisfied with saying
that I am in sympathy with their feeble and inadequate attempts, because this wonderland of nature beggars description. I could hold no
more pleasant wish than this: That you may be able to go and see for
yottrselves.
I spent approximately half my time visiting the Lodges and our
brethren on the three Islands of Kauai, Maui and Hawaii. In addition
to the official reception by each of the Lodges. it afforded a good opportunity to sound out the individual brethren on many aspects of Masonry
on their particular island and in the islands as a whole.
I pursued the same course in the latter half of my visit, which was
spent on the Island of Oahu, where I was officially received by the five
•
Lodges.
The 'overall position of Masonry in the Islands is good. I found a
deep sense of loyalty and a widespread satisfaction that they are a part
of this jurisdiction.
I cannot close the account of this visit without relating one experience. I was taken aboard the U.S.S. "Arizona", whose battle-scarred
hull rests on the floor of Pearl Harbor. Standing on that section amidship which is above water, and acting in behalf of my brethren, I placed
a beautiful Hawaiian lei at the base of the mast from whose peak "Old
Glory" proudly flies. It was a deeply moving experience and was enhanced as I saw these words inscribed in bronze: "Dedicated to the
eternal memory of our gallant shipmates in the U.S.S. Arizona who
gave their lives in action 7 December, 1941. From today on the U.S.S.
Arizona will again fly our Country's flag just as proudly as she did on
the morning of 7 December, 1941. I am sure the Arizona's crew will
know and appreciate what we are doing. May God make his face to
shine upon them. and grant them peace."
At this point it seems appropriate to make a recommendation. Due
to the exigencies of a global war, flve Grand Masters were deprived of
the opportunity to .visit the Islands. The hand of providence has unfor-

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tunately removed four of these from our midst. It would be a fine recognition of his service to the fraternity if you now authorized a trip to the
Islands by Most Worshipful Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master, at
the expense of Grand Lodge. Further, Brother Wood is a senior member of the Policy and General Purposes Committee. It is possible that
future developments in the Islands may present questions involving
policy of this Grand Lodge, and his visit will supply him with the background and information needed for our guidance. It hardly seems necessary to remind you that, due to his inability to make the trip when Grand
Master, the funds appropriated for that purpose were returned 'by him
to our treasury. It is, therefore, recommended that you authorize Brother
Wood to make this visit at his earliest opportunity.
To complete this portion of my message relating to the Islands I wish
to report that by my direction the Grand Secretary. Most Worshipful
Lloyd E. Wilson, made what I describe as a working visit to these eight
Lodges during the last three weeks of June. Time does not permit a
detailed account of his trip. He has reported to me verbally, and in ·
writing, at great length; he has placed in our official files a copy of the
written report whiC'h covers every phase of the individual Lodge meetings he held with the officers and Past Masters of each Lodge and the
results of many personal interviews. I have read this report and examined the several tabulations of statistical data which are a part of it. It is
my considered opinion that this visit by the Grand Secretary has proved
to be one of the most valuable ever made to the Lodges in the Islands by
an official of this Grand Lodge.
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

"This is the Year of the Temple". This slogan has inspired probably
the most widespread and at the same time concentrated endeavor by
our brethren in the history of this jurisdiction. Under the leadership of
Most Woshipful Edward H. Siems, Chairman, together with the mem,b ers of the committee and the administrative staff. this campaign to raise
a building fund has engaged the volunteer efforts of literally thousands
of the brethren who saw within their grasp the realization of all we .
have hoped and planned for.
The report of the committee will tell the story of what you have accomplished. I shall not anticipate it by giving you figures. The total is
not sufficient, in the judgment of myself and the committee, to enable us
to make an outside loan and immediately begin construction. The failure
to reach that goal this year has just one explanation-not enough of the
membership have contributed. The latest report shows that approximately 22,Yi% have participated in the total amount raised.
Regardless of the reasons for this, I know you will join with me in

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

71

thanking your committee for their untiring efforts in behalf of this campaign.
And, although we have not yet reached our goal. the showing is by n·o
means discouraging. An analysis shows pretty clearly that good results
were obtained in Lodges which put into the field teams of hard workers
who made personal contacts and who would not quit until the job was
done.
More than once in recent months I have said that the Temple will
be built. I believe that you will concur in that statement. There is only
one major unsettled question: When? The answer to that is very simple. When the Masons of California and the Hawaiian Islands provide
the money. The process can be long or short. It is easily within your
power to make it short.
Tomorrow you will listen to the report of your committee. They will
make recommendations. This is your Temple. For seven years you have
said you wanted to build it. I trust that you, as the official representatives
of the 220.000 Masons of this jurisdiction, will have the determination
and enthusiasm to do it now.
PUBLICATIONS

This portion of my message deals with a subject of such vital importance to Masonry and its good name that I wish to very briefly review
past history before taking up the many actions which the disclosure of
facts, heretofore only guessed at, dictated.
In 1951, Grand Master Paulsen appointed a committee to investigate the abuse of so-called Masonic publications and the prevalence of
advertising solicitation by such publications and by Masons of our own
and other jurisdictions. Grand Master Paulsen stated that the report
of that Committee, together with its recommendations, should at least
be a first step toward the solution of this distressing and pressing problem. The special committee on publications reported at length on the
abuses surrounding the publication of so-called Masonic periodicals.
Their conclusion, after many hearings, was that advertising in these
publications appeared to be the major basis of evil to our fraternity and
that many complaints concerning advertising solicitations had come to
their attention. There followed a long list of specific instances of fraud,
high pressure and generally disreputable practice. In clear and unmistakable language, the committee reiterated the stand of Masonry that all
Masons have declared that they were uninfluenced by mercenary motives in seeking admission to our fraternity. that Masonry abhors the
use of its good name for commercial purposes and that advertising practices by so-called Masonic publications had, in numerous instances,
leached the level of a racket which would not be tolerated by this Grand
Lodge.

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The resultant legislation amended Section 127 of Ordinances by adding a second paragraph as follows:
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction of
Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising of
any kind in or for any medium or publication, which purports to be
Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for any body,
order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership."
Under this legislation, Grand Master Louis C. Drapeau, in 1952,
first set up rules to dean our own house by prohibiting advertising in
Lodge Trestle Boards, rosters, or in programs, circulars, placards, napkins, or similar media: and, secondly, he had forms of application prepared whereby existing commercial publications might obtain sanction
to carry advertising of Masons. These applications specified certain
standards of advertising and ethical business practice which were agreed
to by the publisher and they have governed to this day with no material
change.
The publishers agreed, among other conditions, to the following:
1. That no use would be made of any lodge roster or official membership list.
2. That no money would be accepted from any Lodge for subsciptions or any other purpose whatsoever.
3. That advertising would not be solicited by any person not a
member of a Lodge in this jurisdiction, and never on a commission basis
or by telephone.
4. That no representation would be made that the publication was
representative of Grand Lodge or any constituent Lodge or that any
benefit would accrue to Masonry, directly or indirectly, from its advertising revenues.
Based upon these applications and the promises therein contained,
the following were granted sanction to solicit advertising from Masons:
1. Channel Counties Mason & Eastern Star.
2; San Louis Obispo County Mason and Eastern Star.
Masonry and Eastern Star.
3. Kern County
I
4. Bay Area Mason and Eastern Star (name changed to The Southern California Shriner and Bay Area Mason).
5. Square and Compass.
6. Seaboard Mason and Eastern Star.
7. Southern California Masonic Journal.
8. Masonic News.
In 1953, there were added to this list:
9. The Masonic Herald, Santa Ana.
l O. The Shriner, Santa Barbara.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

73

Rejected applications included the following:
The Masonic Citizen, published by Frank Thomas, a member of
America Lodge No. 475.
The Masonic Star, published by Glen M. Whitfield, then a mem.
ber of Presidio Lodge No. 354.
appresent
not
did
which
1952
in
existed
have
to
known
Publications
plications included the following:
Masonic World, pu~lished by James Adam, Durant Lodge No. 268.
The Trestle Board, now published by Mrs. Glen M. Whitfield.
Masonic Directory and Eastern Star News, published by Frank
J. Goettling, a member of Highland Park Lodge No. 382.
These publications can, therefore, be divided into two major categories: ( 1 ) those in which by reason of sanction, Masons might place
advertising, and ( 2) those in which, by reason of either rejection of or
failure to submit applications, Masons might not place advertising.
Your Grand Master was determined that his actions respecting the
problem would be governed neither by passion nor predujice, but by
the facts.
An entirely new committee on publications was named, no member
of which had previously been involved, either in local situations or in
any discussion respecting the problem as a whole. All of the members
had long experience in Grand Lodge affairs, either as Inspectors, Committeemen, or both. The committee was charged to get the facts and to
be guided in its recommendatio ns solely by them.
The report of the committee is background for the actions which I
here report to'you.
As a result of information gathered by the committee, sanction was
withdrawn from the following publications:
1. The Masonic News, Huntington Park, California.
2. Square and Compass, Lomita, California.
3. Seaboard Mason and Eastern Star, Long Beach, California.
4. Southern California Masonic Journal, Ontario, California.
This action was dictated by numerous violations in each case concerning the solicitation of advertising and the violation of the conditions
under which sanction had been granted.
Sanction was also withdrawn from Kern County Masonry and Eastern Star in a separate action. The violation dictating this action involved
the receiving of funds by the publication from each of the Lodges in Kern
County in return for the printing of the Lodge Trestle Board and the
distribution of the magazine to the lodge membership. In further violation, it should be noted, lodge rosters or mailing lists were used by the
publisher in this distribution.
These practices violated, not only the conditions of sanction, but
the decision of Grand Master Drapeau ( Sec. 635a, Ross Digest) dealing

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

specifically with Kern County Masonry and Eastern Star, and the decision of Grand Master Ross ( 732) and the letter of Grand Master
Warren.
A letter was addressed to each Master of the lodges involved, reprimanding him for his part in the practice and directing that it be discontinued immediately.
Lest it be inferred that the publication of joint trestle boards by
lodges of a city or county is to be discouraged, let me say that I most
heartily approve of such joint efforts, provided:
1. The publication remains under the control of the lodges
2. That each lodge contribute its proportionate share of th'e cost
of compiling, printing and mailing.
3. That if concordant or appendant bodies are included, each
such body pay its share (it is unlawful for a lodge to divide its
funds or to subsidize another body).
4. That the lodge roster or mailing list be entrusted only to a bona
fide printer who prints the bulletin or to a bona fide mailing
service, and then for the purpose of mailing only.
I am happy to report to you that most of the Lodges of Kern County
have sought this solution and are now continuing to enjoy news of each
other's activities without the violation of Masonic law. I commend the
Masters for their desire to work out such a solution. Those Lodges not
included are publishing individual Trestleboards.
Numerous requests for sanction, ranging from advertising in cook
books and calendars to the publishing of new magazines purporting to
be Masonic in character were denied. In view of the evidence unearthed
by the Publications Committee, I did not feel that any action should be
taken which would subject this Grand Lodge to an enlargement of the
problem.
A hitherto unused sanction issued to Cecil Loomis, publisher of
Channel Counties Mason, in 1953, for a magazine to be known as "The
Shriner" was revoked when it became known that Brother Loomis was
about to publish this magazine for San Diego Shriners, whereas his
application had set forth, in 1953, the great need of the publication in
Santa Barbara.
The sanction heretofore granted the Masonic Herald, Santa Ana.
was voluntarily surrendered by its publisher and it was accordingly
cancelled.
The Committee, in its investigations of unsanctioned publications,
produced evidence that some members of Lodges of this and other jurisdictions had continued to aid and abet in the extraction of money from
unsuspecting advertisers as donations to Masonry, and to violate our law
in the publishing of periodicals which constitute a fraud upon the public

and a stain upon the good name of Masonry. I have, therefore, directed
that charges of un-Masonic conduct be brought against each of them.
In addition, I directed that charges be preferred against the advertising manager of a previously sanctioned publication for un-Masonic
conduct in the solicitation of advertising while employed by that paper.
I have consulted frequently throughout this year with the Chairman
and the Committee as a whole. The report of the Committee and its
recommendations bear my support. We have amassed the evidence
which will convince each of you that Masonry and the preservation of
its good name are more important than the private gain and profit of a
few individuals.
I trust that you will join with me in thanking the members of this
Committee for their labors. There were few days in the year on which
they were not wrestling with some phase of this problem. They have
done a constructive and comprehensive job. I ask your support in their
conclusions.

75

"CALIPORNIA FREEMASON"

I have long felt that an official publication of the Grand Lodge would
fill a great need and serve the best interests of Masonry in this jurisdiction.
Heretofore such questions as editing, publishing, format, content,
mailing, and the means of defraying costs erected a collective obstacle
which seemed insurmountable in view of the fact that we had no indica ·
tion of how ~uch a publication would be received by the brethren.
Last year Brother New~omb Candee, Chairman of the Correspondence Committee, came to me with the suggestion that the report of his
committee be issued quarterly instead of annually. After considerable
discussion we worked out a plan whereby this quarterly edition would
also contain newsworthy items of Masonic activity in this jurisdiction
and articles of general Masonic interest by writers of recognized ability,
all at a cost which would not too greatly exceed the appropriation
granted the committee.
Thus was born "California Freemason", the first serious attempt at
an official publication by your Grand Lodge.
Brother Candee and the members of his committee deserve our thanks
for their work in this undertaking. It is a modest beginning, because of
the limitations of money and the time which could be devoted by a volunteer staff.
The fundamental policy of "no advertising" was adopted at the outset. There are several reasons for this. First, experience demonstrates
that individuals and firms who place ads in fraternal publications with
limited circulation too often consider them in the light of donations. It
does not comport with the dignity of our Grand Lodge to be placed in

76

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

that ppsition in the eyes of the profane. Secondly. it would involve an
organization for soliciting ads, bookkeeping, billing,' etc .. which was outside our scope. And, thirdly. it was felt that our publication would find
greater favor with the brethren in its present compact form.
Whatever may be the future of "California Freemason," we are
firmly of the opinion that the policy of "no advertising" is sound and
should be continued.
It is likely that a majority of the brethren have not even seen the
magazine. Our limited funds permitted the printing of only 20.000
copies of each edition. These were mailed to the Lodges in bulk on a
pro rata membership basis for distribution by the Secretary.
On the other hand, we have been gratified with the widespread and
enthusiastic response. To test its reception and to form a base for planning its future, we encl.osed with the Summer edition a return card, on
which we asked if the reader desired to have it continued; if he preferred to pay a subscription charge and have it mailed direct; and we
provided a space for remarks and suggestions.
A survey of the replies is enlightening. Approximately 99% of the
replies requested that the magazine be continued, while 95% wishe? to
subscribe and have it mailed direct. Under remarks and suggestions
the comments were many and varied, mostly having to do with the content of the publication.
Although the number of replies could not be considered a true crosssection of the entire membership, nevertheless I consider it a sufficient
indication of the wishes of those who have seen and read the magazine.
The old adage "Make haste slowly" applies in this matter. Another
year of publication along the lines presently followed will place us on
firmer ground before we consider any substantial expansion. However,
it seems feasible to work out a system for subscripti?ns and direct mail.
ing.
All such details are better left in the hands of those who will have
them in charge.
I therefore, recommend ( 1 ) that the publication known as "Califomfa Freemason" be continued; and ( 2) that an appropriation of
$8,000.00 be made to defray its cost, with the understanding, of course,
that if receipts from subscriptions, plus this appropriation, should exceed
all costs, any unexpended remainder shall revert to the general funds
of Grand Lodge.

North Main Street. This is the second meeting place of Los Angeles
Lodge No. 42, which celebrated its centennial this year, and the first
Masonic Hall in that city.
A committee of the Lodge and I held a meeting with some of the
City Officials and a stay of execution of the order of demolition has
been granted until May 1, 1955.
The building is at present the property of the city. The state has
purchased old historical buildings and sites in the immediate neighborhood and made them a part of the Plaza de Los Angeles Historical
Monument. It has been suggested and there is a possibility that the
state may purchase the property so that it may be preserved and included in the monument. ·
Across the street is the original Plaza Church and nearby is the
Plaza. Leading off the Plaza is famous Olvera Street. These are all a
part of the Historical Monument. It is and will continue to be a mecc2
for thousands of tourists.
I feel that the Masons of California will want this building preserved,
not only for its historical significance, but as a reminder to all visitors
that Masons played an important role in building the great city which,
in its early days, centered around the old Plaza.
I, therefore, recommend that the incoming Grand Master be authorized and directed to appoint a special committee to keep in close touch
with all developments relating to this property, to follow up the possibility of its purchase by the state as a part of the monument, and to
present recommendations for its preservation, in some form, as a Masonic Memorial.

OLD MASONIC HALL IN Los ANGELES

In March of this year it was brought to my attention by the proper
authorities of the City of Los Angeles that unless steps were taken to
rehabilitate it, demolition threatened the old two-story building at 416

77

DECISIONS

Many questions involving the interpretation and application of our
Regulations have been submitted to me during the year. In some I felt
the law was so clear that reference to the proper section was sufficient
to answer the inquiry.
The remainder seemed to call for some new interpretation or initial
decision. These are submitted for your judgment as follows:
GRAND MAsTER's DECISION No. 1

The Grand Master was asked if a Masonic Club could hold a "turkey shoot" to raise money which would be used to remodel a proposed
Masonic Temple.
The Grand Master is of the opinion that the proposed "turkey shoot"
is so close to being a violation of the law, if in fact it is not an actual
violation, that his decision must be in the negative and permission
cannot be given as requested. He is further strongly of an opinion that

78

79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

to raise money for a building in such a fashion is not in keeping with
the dignity of the institution, and it further invites the participation of
non-Maso ns in financing a Masonic building project.

ows or designated beneficiaries benefits on death of a member of the
Lodge?
The answer is "no."
This would be an illegal use of Lodge funds. (R.D. 157. 610, 611.
625.)

GRAND MASTER'S DECISION No. 2

Lexington Lodge No. 104 was working on November 9, 1953, in
the first degree in its temple at 235 W. Valley Boulevard, El Monte,
and was free from restraint after initiating two candidate s up to but
not including the lecture when at around 8: 52 P .M. df said date its
temple caught fire and was consumed by flames.
Subsequen tly a dispensati on was issued to said Lodge authorizing it
to hold future meetings in the Odd Fellows Hall at 200 West Tyler
Avenue in the same city, beginning November 27, 1953.
Since the Lodge was still open on the first degree, I directed the
Master to appear at the new meeting place with a sufficient number of
officers and brethren at the regular meeting hour on November 27, 1953,
sound the gavel, direct the Secretary to record in the minutes the facts
and circumstances concerning the disaster, proceed with the work from
the point reached when the interruptio n occurred and in due course close
the Lodge.
Because of the emergency this decision is made notwithsta nding the
provisions of Sections l 92-3rd and 483 of Ross Digest.
GRAND MAsTER's DECISION No. 3

May a Lodge furnish to a bona fide printer and mailing service a
roster of its members for the purpose of having mailed to the members
the Lodge Bulletin or Trestle Board?
The answer is "yes."
In such a case there is a duty which devolves upon the Master of
the Lodge to make sure that the roster is used solely for Masonic purposes. ( R.D. 732.)
GRAND MASTER's DECISION No. 4

May a Mason, in the conduct of his business, comprising a restaurant
and a bar, ever himself act as a bartender?
The answer is "no." (Drapeau Edict, Rulings 14 and 35, pages 30,
37, 326, Grand Lodge Proceedin gs 1952.)
One who becomes a barkeeper shall be deemed guilty of un-Mason ic
conduct (R.D. 210, 887).
GRAND MAsTER's DECISION No. 5

May a Lodge ex.pend its funds under an insurance plan to pay wid-

GRAND MAsTER's DECISION No. 6

Is it proper for a Lodge to publish, or cause to be published in a
publication distributed among the profane, official communications from
the Grand Master or official communications from the Grand Lodge to
the Lodge?
In some cases it would be permissible, such as for our Public Schools
Week and Constituti on Month Observanc es, but, in other instances, it
would not be permissible, as for example in the case of work of the
Grievance Committe e or applications for Degrees.
It is understoo d that the Grand Master will designate as confidential
those matters which should not be circulated among the profane.
GRAND MAsTER's DEc1s10N No. 7

May an Officers Association compel its member Lodges to contribute toward Association expenses?
The answer is "no." (Drapeau Edict No. 41, 1952 Proceedin gs,
pages 39, 326.)
GRAND MASTER's DEc1sION No. 8

What procedure should be followed in respect of a candidate elected
to receive the Degrees of Masonry, and thereafter and before his initiation, it was discovered that he was il).eligible to receive the Degrees
because of his purchase and operation of a bar at which intoxicating
liquors were dispensed?
The proper method of procedure is to make objection to the Candidate's initiation, pursuant to Section 237 of our Ordinance s, and then at
the end of the sixty-day period. declare the Candidate rejected and
return his fees.
GRAND MAsTER's DEasION No. 9

Is a professional gambler eligible to receive the Degrees of Masonry?
The answer is "no."
Gambling is a Masonic offense ( R.D. 739). The proposed applicant, being a profession al gambler and employed as such in a gambling
establishment, does not come under the tongue of good report ( R.D.
739. 740, 875.)

~-----

80

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND MAsTER's DECISION No. 10

purpose!! not authorized. Important considerations of policy are involved, in any event, since the plan would involve the Craft in a political campaign.

May a Temple Association hold and sell tickets for a public breakfast so as to obtain funds in part for the erection of a Temple?
The answer is "no." ( 795, 795a Ross Digest.)
GRAND MASTER's DECISION No. 11

What corrective action should be taken in respect of an applicant
for the Degrees who, within one year of his rejection by one Lodge,
applied to another Lodge. stating. inadvertently in his application that
more than one year had elapsed from his rejection, and which other
Lodge thereupon proceeded to eiect, initiate and pass the applicant before the illegality was discovered?
The second Lodge most correctly denied advancement since the applicant had not legally been elected, initiated or passed. ( 219, 704 R.D.)
But, since it is impossible from a practical standpoint to take away
what the applicant had received, the following procedure should be followed in this case: the second Lodge should tender to the Lodge which
had rejected the applicant the fees for the first and second Degrees, and
should return to the applicant the fees for the Third Degree. If the
applicant desires advancement, he should apply for the Third Degree
with the usual reference and ballot (219, 704, 708 R.D.).
·

81

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND MAsTER's DECISION No. 12

May the Lodge, which owns and operates the Livermore Masonic
Cemetery, transfer this property to a cemetery district to be created
under California Law, under a plan calling for a political campaign and
approval by the voters of Murray Township, but at no expense to the
Lodge?
The answer is "no."
The intent of the new plan is to shift responsibility onto the public
of a Masonic Cemetery operation. As expressed by the Secretary of
Mosaic Lodge:
"The plan for the formation of a Cemetery District must be
approved by the voters and as it will place an added tax burden
on the already tax weary property owners, it is vital that there
be no strong unified opposition."
There are several objections to the proposed plan. It would involve
the Lodge in a collateral financial undertaking, contrary to Section 912,
R.D. It would be shifting onto the public the expense of a Masonic
activity, with charity i!:nplications, contrary to Section 795a, R.D.
The Grand Master adheres to the opinion expressed in the letter
of June 3, 1954. fo this it was pointed out that the proposed plan would
violate Masonic Law because Lodge property would be transferred for

GRAND MASTER'S DECISION No. 13

May a Lodge lease and hold meetings in premises wherein the
• American Legion at their meetings sell and dispense liquor to members
df their organization under a permit from the State Board of Equalization for that purpose?
The answer is "no." ( R.D. 596.)
While this may ·he said to be on the fringes of legality, so far as
Masonic law is concerned, and while almost all the liquor would be
removed from the premises after the meetings of the American Legion,
still the Edict of Grand Master Warren, 1936 page 21, and the Edict
of Grand Master Gist, 1934 pages 26-27, indicate the advisability of
not leasing the premises unless the business of selling liquor could be
eliminated from the premises.
GRAND MASTER'S DECISION No. 14

Does the prohibition of Question 13 in the Application for Degrees,
as amended 1953, apply to the so-called "Square Clubs," the prerequisite of membershi·p wherein is that a person be a Master Mason?
The answer is "yes."
This ruling of the Grand Master should not be construed as approval of any so-called Masonic Clubs.
Considerafion has been given to the ruling of Past Grand Master
Claude Morrison (R.D. 494b). He was not ruling, however, in respect
of the action of Grand Lodge in 1953, at which time it would appear
the intent of Grand Lodge was to extend the prohibition to "any Lodge.
order, oc organization" the prerequisite of membership wherein is that
a person be a Master Mason. While it is true the requirement is further
conditioned, to a somewhat formulistic extent, on a "Degree" or "initiation," still the basic intent seems to include a social club. This follows
from the plain reading of the Question 13 as adopted by Grand Lodge
in 1953, and wherein there are no exceptions noted. It would seem that
if a social club were to be excepted, then the language would have
clearly so set forth.
GRAND MASTER'S DECISION No. 15

Where a Master Mason misrepresented his answer to question 12
of his application, possibly with the knowledge of those who seconded
his application, what charges may be brought against them?
This member could be charged with misrepresentations 'in his application for the Degrees. ( R.D. 743.)
The seconders, if parties to the deception, would be offenders also

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and chargeabl e as aiders and abettors to the misrepresentation. ( R.D.
738, 287, 744.)

room. and hence he is outside that room. (391 Mackey's Jurisprudence:
R.D. 595, 780.)
The tiler's room or the anteroom, as well as the preparatio n room,
are for merely temporary use, as distinct from the Lodge room itself.
The Master should not permit any member, to enter or retire from the
Lodge room as such, as stated above, during a ballot. Moreover, the
Master would be within his discretion ary powers in directing and compelling Brethren in the tiler's room, or anteroom, or preparatio n room,
to return to the Lodge room and participat e in the ballot. ( R.D. 422.)

82

GRAND MASTER'S DECISION No. 16
Should a Lodge return fees to a Candidate who commenced but did
not complete initiation and was denied advancem ent on objection by
reason of physical unfitness?
The answer is "yes."
The Lodge should return the fees to the Candidate on expiration of
sixty days from the meeting at which the Master reported the fact of
objection. (Drapeau Edict 28, Grand Lodge Proceedin gs 1952, pages
34, 326.)
The Candidate did not attain the status of an initiate because he
did not receive the lecture. The situation presented , therefore, is similar
to objection made before initiation. Conseque ntly, the fee should be
returned as provided in R.D. 237. (Drapeau Edict 28, Proceedin gs 1952,
pages 35, 330.)
GRAND MAsTER's DECISION No. 17
Are Trustees of a Lodge "officers" within the meaning of such as
a Master may appoint in the event of a vacancy prior to expiration of
a term?
The answer is "no."
The Trustees of a Lodge are required as such to "always be under
its control." and to act "as the Lodge shall direct." ( R.D. 154, 600, 601.)
They are intended to be "provided for in a standing resolution."
The resolution of the Lodge involved assumes that the Trustees will
be elected by the Lodge. It is silent as to vacancies. In this connection.
reference is made to an approved form of standing resolution, supplied
by the Grand Secretary on request, which provides the procedure whereby vacancies shall be filled, and this by election.
It is suggested that the Lodge in question adopt and follow this
approved form of standing resolution.
GRAND MAsTER's DECISION No. 18
Is the tiler's room and preparatio n room a part of the Lodge room?
The purpose of presenting this question is undoubted ly to flnd out
whether it is permissible to retire to the tiler's room during balloting.
The answer to this question is "no." ( R.D. 422.) No member may
enter or retire from the Lodge room after the announcem ent of the
report of the Committee and the direction of the ballot, unless sickness
or some other imperative reason should be pleaded.
The "Lodge room," contemplated in R.D. 422, is the "box" outside ·
of which are located the tiler's room and the preparatio n room. Obviously, this must be so since it is the duty of the tiler to guard the Lodge

•

83

GRAND MAsTER's DEasION No. 19
May an organizati on, the prerequisite of membership wherein is that
they :be Masons, sponsor the sale of tickets for a public circus to be held
on January 177
The answer is "no."
Since January 17 is a Sunday, the sale of tickets for the circus ~ould
violate Section 790-792, Ross Digest.
It is apparent from the information submitted that in the eyes of the
public there would be a sale of tickets for a Sunday public circus by an
organization Masonic in character. The Masonic members of that organization may not thus bring discredit upon Masonry.
Note also the general prohibition against raising fonds for Masonic
charities by public entertainm ent. R.D. 795-795 (a).
GRAND MASTER'S DECISION No. 20
Is conviction of a felony, prior to application for Degrees, ground
for automatic expulsion?
The answer is "no." (Trial Record No. 1191, 1950: Trial Record
No. 1327, 1952.)
We are not concerned with the question whether the facts involved
in the conviction of a felony, suffered prior to application for Degrees,
constitute grounds for Masonic trial. A Mason can be tried for moral
offenses committed ;b efore initiation. ( R.D. 753.)
Apparentl y the Master of Florence Lodge has misunderstood what
some member of the Grievance Committe e may have stated was the law.
From the above, it is clear that a prior conviction does not, in and of
itself, give rise to automatic expulsion. But the basis for the prior conviction may be grounds for trials if such basis involved a moral offense.
(Your inquiry was written while you were still Master of the Lodge,
hence the reference to the Master of Florence Lodge.)
GRAND MASTER'S DECISION No. 21
Must a Charity Committee of a Lodge, composed of the Master and

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

the Wardens, report through the Master at each Stated Meeting all
payments of charity since the last Stated Meeting?
The answer is "yes" ( R.D. 891 ) .
It is required, moreover, that the Master file with the Secretary for
use at each Stated Meeting the names of the recipients and the amounts
paid since the last Stated Meeting. ( R.D. 782: 202.)
In making the oral report at the Stated Meeting, the Master, speaking for the Charity Committee, may report merely the sum total expended, and refer any interested and proper person to the detailed report
mentioned, on file with the Secretary, for further information.
In addition to the above decisions it has been necessary for me to
take action in certain cases. I suspended the Master of a Lodge from
office for his failure to report or give any detailed accounting to the
Lodge of the amounts and recipients of Lodge funds in excess of $4.000,
which he disbursed for relief. He was repeatedly warned during the
year by the Inspector that such a report and accounting was required.
It was reported to me that on one such occasion the Master demanded
that the Inspector show him wherein the law made such a requirement.
It was further reported to me that, on being questioned, the Master
stated that he paid out some of the funds in cash, while others were
handled through his personal bank account, but that he had destroyed
check stubs and canceled checks. He offered as an excuse for his actions
that it was all supposed to be confidential: that this was customary procedure in his Lodge: and that some of the Past Masters had advised
him that his procedure was proper.
When the situation was brought to my attention late last year, I
wrote the Master directing him to comply with the instructions of the
Inspector. This he failed to do and I suspended him from office and
ordered the Inspector to begin a thorough investigation, which was to
include a further effort to have the Master show evidence that the funds
were properly disbursed.
When the date for the annual installation of officers neared and no
conclusive report had reached me, I ordered the installation postponed
to give the Master further time to submit an accounting. This postponement was ordered, of course, to avoid the installation of his successor
while he was under suspension, thus depriving him of the rank and title
of Past Master. However, I was besieged with requests by the Master
and Wardens-elect to allow the installation to be held on the scheduled
date and was informed by the suspended Master that it was also his
wish. With the assurance that the suspended Master clearly understood
the penalty he would suffer, I rescinded the order of postponement and
the installation was held.
The subsequent report of the investigation failed to show any mate-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

85

rial evidence, other than the statement of the Master, as to how the
funds had .been disbursed.
I have not ordered that charges be preferred against this Master.
feeling that deprivation of the rank and title of Past Master was sufficient punishment for his derelictions.
I addressed a letter to the newly installed Master, outlining the
proper procedure in the use of Lodge funds for relief and ordered that
it be read to the Lodge and spread upon the minutes.
In another Lodge, objection was made to me against the installation
of the Master-elect. Because of previous reports which had reached me
of lack of harmony in this Lodge, I ordered postponement of the installation. I directed Guy B. Mize, Assistant Grand Lecturer, to make a thorough investigation, and upon receiving his enlightening report I ordered
the Master of the Lodge to summons the members to a special meeting,
at which Brother Mize was present as my representattive and read to
the Lodge a letter from me. I am happy to report that as a result the
installation was subsequently held without any objection and harmony
appears to have been restored. I record my appreciation of the able and
conclusive services of Brother Mize.
During the recent political campaign ·a candidate for public office,
who was a member of one of our Lodges, broadcast over the state a
letter seeking support. In a portion of the letter these words were used:
"To my Brothers of the Masonic Fraternity I say." Following that, the
letter went on at length to appeal for the votes of Masons because of
his membership.
This was •such a blatant disregard for the rules of propriety and
the laws of the Institution that I ordered Masonic charges preferred
against him.
Other instances were brought to my attention where a candidate's
membership in the fraternity was used, one way or another, in appeals
for votes, but in none of these by the candidate himself. The propriety
of the methods used · in some of these instances was questionable, although I did not feel warranted in directing that any charges be preferred.
I feel it my duty to call the attention of the brethren to this growing
tendency to misuse membership in the_fraternity in political campaigns.
It has been argued that, when a candidate for ptJ1blic office is a Mason,
his candidacy and membership in the fraternity should be brought to
the attention of his brethren, because his election would serve the best
interests of the community and state, and we should not be too technical
ff our Regulations are violated in the process.
The only .possible justification for such reasoning is that the end in ·
itself may be good: but it is pure sophistry to argue that, to attain that
end, we are justified in using means which do violence to the proprieties
and the laws.

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
RECOMMENDATIONS

In the foregoing I have made certain recommendations which seemed
more appropriately included with the subjects under discussion. To
recapitulate, I have recommended:
1. That consideration be given to the enlargement of the Charters
Committee.
2. That the incoming Grand Master endeavor to find means whereby
a larger student participation may be secured at the tWo university clubhouses.
3. That a visit to the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands be authorized
for Past Grand Master Leslie E. Wood at the expense of Grand Lodge.
4. That the Resolutions which will be submitted ·b y the Committee
on Publications be adopted.
5. That the publication "California Freemason" be continued and
that an appropriation of $8,000.00 be made to defray its cost.
6. That the incoming Grand Master be authorized and directed to
appoint a special committee in connection with the old Masonic Hall in
Los Angeles.
SPECIAL ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

At the :b eginning of my message I made a general acknowledgment
to all the brethren who have so unselfishly and ably assisted me in the
past twelve months. I now wish to make reference to several whose
services to me and to the fraternity deserve special recognition.
The Grand Secretary, Lloyd E .Wilson, the Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, and the office staff, have given prompt and
complete cooperation in handling the multitude of administrative details.
The advice and counsel of the Grand Secretary, given only when sought,
has been like a strong right arm.
The unofficial incumbent in the past year of the new Grand Lodge
office of Judge Advocate has been your Deputy Grand Master, Right
Worshipful Henry C. Clausen. His assistance in briefing the law has
eased a heavy burden and :b een of great value.
To all the Grand Lodge officers, elective and appointive, I express
my gratitude for their efficient and cheerful discharge of their respective
duties. It has been a great relief on the many occasions of opening
Grand Lodge in Special Communication to know that the officers would
be responsible for seeing that every chair was filled and each item necessary to the ceremony present and in place.
I think you will be interested in knowing that the Master of my
Lodge, Beverly Hills No. 528, sat in the East and called up the brethren
at the entrance of the Grand Lodge officers Monday morning. Past

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

87

Masters of my Lodge will act in a similar capacity during the session.
This recognition is my way of saying thanks to all the brethren of my
Lodge for their thoughtfulness throughout the year.
CONCLUSION

I wish that I were gifted with the foresight and wisdom to look
ahead on the road we shall follow in the years immediately before us
and tell you now how we can plan to avoid those pitfalls and by-paths
which would make our progress a difficult one.
However, I can say to you with the utmost confidence that with
these lamps to guide our feet and these landmarks to point the way we
shall not stray too far or fall too hard:
To believe that to make innovations in the body of Masonry is to
turn our backs on the wisdom of the past and pursue a dangerous course.
To believe in and submit to the patiently and carefully taken decision of the majority.
To believe that we are our brother's keeper-not only because moral
law and fraternal precept say so, but because it is the dictate of our
conscience.
To believe that there is a higher law which governs our lives and
that the way to understand it is to ask for and receive the guidance of
Almighty God.
·
Thus, my brethren, I believe that our great fraternity will move
calmly and SlJCCessfully on into an unending future.

~·
FRANK HARWELL, JR.

Grand Master
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

88

89

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON BALLOTING

designation filled in at each of the two points provided for that purpose.
It should be signed by you and the local seal should be affixed at the
place designated.
If ·the Master and both Wardens are attending, each will have his
own credentials. If the Master and only one Warden are attending, the
Warden should have his credentials and the Master should have one
extra set in addition to his own credentials. If the Master or one Warden is the only representative attending, he should have his own credentials and two additional sets. If only the two Wardens are attending.
each should have his own credentials, and the Senior Warden should
have one additional set.
In each case the extra set will be issued without completion of registration or identification portions.
Additional credentials for the use of Past Masters are available from
this office on request.
Credentials for Grand Lodge Officers, Past Grand Masters, Inspectors and Committeemen will be prepared in this office and will be forwarded to you under separate cover for you to complete and distribute.
Please impress on the representatives of your lodge that they must
bring with them the registration forms issued to them by you.
If your lodge is to be represented by a brother specifically elected for
that purpose, you should request from this office the special form of credential which will be sent for ·that purpose. Such representatives will
receive the required ballots when they register at Grand Lodge.
Fraternally yours,

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the last Communication of Grand Lodge, a Special Committee on
Balloting was appointed by you, and a report was to be given at the
One Hundred Fifth Communication, 1954.
.T he Committee was composed of the following:
ADAM B. MORTEN
H. 0 . HAMMERICH
T. B. COPELAND

A meeting was held by the Committee in the Grand Secretary's office
in San Francisco with the Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary. The method devised for expediting balloting has been incorporated in instructions from the Grand Secretary's office, and the special
registration forms which were prepared ·by the Grand Secretary's office.
A letter has been sent out to all lodges explaining the method of balloting, and the forms themselves are self-explanatory. A copy of the
letter to Secretaries is made a part of this report.
On behalf of the Committee, I recommend adoption of the plan.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS B. COPELAND
HENRY 0. HAMMERICH
ADAM B. MORTEN

Adopted.
September 3, 1954
Dear Brother Secretary:
You will recall that a Special Committee on Balloting was appointed
at the last Annual Communication. This Committee has recommended
a balloting procedure which will tie in with the registration of delegates.
The enclosed registration forms have been prepared on this basis.
Please note the following procedures which are to be followed by
you in order that the new program may be fully effective.
The appropriate form should ·be completed by you for each of the
following who will attend Grand Lodge:
Master
Senior Warden
Junior Warden
Past Masters
Each form which is completed should have the na~e of the holder
typed or printed at the two points indicated, and should have the lodge

LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

90

91

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
OF THE MASONIC HOMES

As we reported · to you last year, the care of the aged senile is a
matter of great concern to us and we are continuing to give careful
study to the matter of proper custodial care for those persons who are
not dangerous to themselves or others.
The Trustees have in previous years reported the increased number
of applications made for admission to the Home at Decoto and the present year is no exception. A study of the residents' figures and admissions
will indicate that there has been a steady increase.
It is also noticeable that applications are being made at a more advanced age and in all probability both factors are due to the economic
situation and the change in the State law regarding the care of the
senile aged.
Plans are being made to temporarily at least meet the increased
requirement by converting one of the floors at Decoto to give an added
27 beds. If the trend does not change we shall be forced to give serious
consideration to the erection of a new building at Decoto if we are to
meet our responsibility to our aged Brethren, their wives and widows.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Sixty-Second Annual Report for the year ending July 31, 1954, together with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes and the
financial reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The Board of Trustees met in Los Angeles on October 21, 1953, for
transaction of regular business and for the purpose of organization. The
election of Henry C. Clausen, Deputy Grand Master, Edgar V. Stewart, Senior Grand Warden, and L. Harold Anderson, Junior Grand
Warden, was formally reported to the Board and on motion duly made,
seconded and carried they were elected members of the Board.
The re-appointment by the Grand Master of Charles M. Wollenberg and Leo E. Anderson for a term of three years each was reported
and on motion duly made, seconded and carried, they were elected members of the Board.
To fill the vacancy created by the election of L. Harold Anderson
to the office of Junior Grand Warden, the Grand Master having announced the appointment of Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren for
the unexpired term, on motion duly made, seconded and carried he was
elected a member of the Board.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Board is composed of the following Trustees:
Arthur M. Warren-----------------·------1954------------------------------Ralph H. Head
Chas. Albert Adams ______________________1955 ____________________________ Myron E. Smith
Charles M. Wollenberg ________________ t 956. ___________________________ Leo E. Anderson
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Charles M. Wollenberg was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Myron E. Smith was
elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Francis V. Keesling is
Treasurer of the Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secretary of the Masonic Homes of California.
GENERAL

The Board urges all members of the Fraternity to read carefully the
reports of Superintendent James R. Eubanks of the Home for the Aged
at Decato, and Superintendent Robert M. Henry of the Home for Children at Covina which are a part of this report.

FINANCE

During the past year, the Homes have been able to operate within
the estimates made. Each year has seen a rise in operating costs due to
general conditions~ The expanded medical program, the inclusion of our
employees under Social Security and other factors ha_ve materially added
to costs.
During the coming year, we will have additional expenses because
of the inaugu~ation of our retirement program for employees at both
Homes. This program approved by Grand Lodge in 1947 is necessary
to keep both plants staffed with adequate and comjJetent personnel.
The generosity of the Brethren in their response to the Endowment
Fund and the splendid work done by the Investment Committee has
greatly increased the income from securities. This has made it possible
to reduce the per capita levy from $1.00 to 75c for 1952-53 and 1953-54
and to 50c for 1954-55.
It must be remembered, however, that the per capita levied this year
will not be payable until August, 1955 and will provide funds to meet
operations for the fiscal year 1955-56. It is very difficult to estimate our
income and expenses two years hence when we must rely on such a
variable as the number of applicants entering Masonry and who provide
us with over 40% of our income. Consequently, we must consider our
projected budget for the coming year as a guide. Our best estimate indicates that with only a 50c per capita this year, we may face a deficit
of $50,000.00 unless the number of candidates exceeds that of the year
just closed.
We, therefore, recommend the continuance of the per capita levy of
50c to ·be paid with the returns of August, 1955.

- -----

92

93

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPLACEMENT oP ELEVATORS, MASONIC HoME-DEcoT o

In summary it can be said, therefore, that the operation in the past
year and particularly throughout the first nine months of 1954 has shown
an increasing satisfaction to doctors and patients and is steadily decreasing costs to the Home itself due to the more efficient operation of the
service and the avoidance of expensive hospitalization.

Early in the year the Board was confronted with the problem of
either maintaining the North. East and South elevators at a high cost.
or replacing them with new, modern equipment: the latter course was
decided upon.
Some difficulty was encountered with the Building Department of
the County of Alameda with reference to a proposed extension of rise
to serve a new fifth floor level. It appears now that the problems will
be resolved and this work will be allowed to proceed soon.
Work is under way on the East and South elevators: all the new
equipment should be in operation in the near future.

CHAS. M. WoLLENBERG
MYRON E. SMITH
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
L. HAROLD ANDERSON
LEO E. ANDERSON
HENRY C. CLAUSEN
RALPH H. HEAD
EDGAR V. STEWART, JR.
ARTHUR M. WARREN

MEDICAL SERVICE AT DECOTO

The operation during the past year has had the benefit of the previous year's experience and is proceeding more smoothly.
During the year 1953 a total of 1739 patients were seen at the
Decoto Home Clinic, averaging between 126 and 163 patients per month.
In the Decoto Home Hospital. 2098 patients were seen, with a
spread of between 119 and 300 patients per month.
An average of about 50 patients per month were sent to the Palo
Alto Clinic for a total year's average of 658, and during the year 1953,
57 patients were admitted to the Palo Alto Hospital. Up to date in 1954,
the number of patients hospitalized has been -definitely less than the
previous year because of the improved liaison between the operation of
the Decoto Home Hospital and the doctors of the Palo Alto Clinic.
·A great many more co~ditions are taken care of in the Home's Infirmary and Hospital rather than patients being hospitalized in Palo
Alto. At the beginning of this service there was a considerable backlog
of surgical diseases requiring operations. This backlog has now been
largely caught up with and now is mostly what could :be called a "maintenance problem." This can be expected to level off during the present
year to a point where it may be anticipated to continue in the future.
The residents themselves are learning how to properly use the
medical facilities that are offered to them and the doctors are becoming
more and more familiar with the peculiar problems which are encountered in a home largely devoted to people of this age.
It must be said in any consideration of this operation, that it could
not be successful without the efficient work of the nursing director, Miss
Elizabeth Payne, who has extraordinary aptitudes for dealing with
older patients and her cordial and cooperative relationship with the
doctors has been a major factor in the rather outstanding success of this
operation as shown.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

94

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of Superinten dent-Deco to Home
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Brethren: I hereby present for your consideratio n this, my 13th
Annual Report as Superintend ent of the Masonic Home at Decoto for
the year ending July 31, 1954.
The population of the Home on August 1, 1953 was 111 men and
181 women, a total of 292. Thirty-nine women, average age 77 years
and twenty-nine men average age of 75 years were admitted, during
the year. During the same period 22 women, average age 82.68 and
17 men average age 82.35 passed away, 3 men and·2 women were withdrawn, population on August 1st 1954 is 121 men, 196 women, a total
of 317. Included in this number are 11 married couples.

Age groups

54
60-70
70-80
80-90
90-100
Average age

Men
1
16

Women

56
9

18
71
88
20

122

197

78.21

80.08

40

Total

319

Age groups such as are represented above, will of necessity require
much care and treatment. At present 95 members of the Home are being
cared for in the East Wing and the hospital, under the visiting physician's direction. Miss Bess Payne, Superintend ent of Nurses, assisted
by her very efficient staff of nurses, render to this group the care and
.
attention they require in a most efficient and kindly manner.
Recently a new department has been added to our hospital facilities.
Modern dental equipment has been installed which enables us to render
a more complete and satisfactory service to all the members of the Home.
Dr. William O'Connor, of Hayward, who has been our dentist for 20
years or more, will be in charge of this department.
Through the thoughtfuln ess and generosity of Mrs. Marble, of
Loomis, Calif.. mother of Marvin C. Peterson. a member of Eureka
Lodge No. 16, we have in use in our ·h ospital a Hoyer Lifter.
This fine contribution makes it possible for our nurses and attendants
to handle our infirm and paraletic patients more efficiently.
We had hoped to have t'he new elevators which were delivered to the
Home some time ago, installed long before now. The installation has
been delayed due to the fact that we have been unable to secure a building permit from the Alameda County Building Inspector's office. We

95

believe, however, that the building permit matter will be straightened
out in the near future, and that work on the elevators will then go forward.
It is interesting to note that 1879 Masonic brethren, their wives,
widows and mothers have availed themselves of the facilities of the
Home since it opened in 1899.
3947 signed our guest register during the year. Represented in this
number were 427 lodges in this jurisdiction, and 96 out of state lodges.
Caracoz, Venezuela; Lima, Peru; Canada, Germany, France, Stockholm, Sweden: and Egypt. were also represented .
Mrs. Esther Essieva, who has been serving as Matron of the Home
for the past two years, resigned on June 30 to assume the important
duties of housewife. Mrs. Maude Teass of San Francisco, was appointed Matron and assumed the responsibilities of that very important assignment on July 1, 1954. During Mrs. Teass short tenure, ~he has
proven herself not only qualified and capable, but also cooperative and
congenial, and through her fair consideration of all the members' requests
and her sympathetic understandi ng of their problems, she is rapidly
gaining the admiration, confidence and respect of all the members of
the Home.
Brother Paul Shipman, who so ably filled the office of Assistant
Superintend ent of our Home for two years, was appointed Superintendent of the Masonic and Eastern Star Home of Oregon and took
over the duties of that assignment June 1, 1954.
The vacancy caused by Brother Shipman's resignation was filled
by t'he appoint;nen t of Brother Gail David, a membe~ of Piedmont
Lodge No. 521. Although the duties of this office are vaned and numerous, Brother David has made very satisfactory progress. We believe
in a very short time he will have everything under control.
Under the able leadership of Brother Hildebrand, Paul Reichert,
William Emmal and Reverend Cecil Rhoades, our accounting, commissary, culinary and devotional departments are operating very satisfactorily. There is a report about the Home that Reverend Rhoades is
leaving us on September 15. He has been appointed Pastor of a church
in Pennsylvani a.
Due to the rains and heavy frost, our fruit crop this year was almost
a complete failure. This condition was general throughout this locality.
Our stock farm, as the following figures indicate, has made a satisfactory
showing:
FRUITS. PRODUCE . MEAT. ETC .. DELIVERE D TO
COMMISS ARY
55.00
FRUIT, Fresh ....................................................... .
211.00
156.00
Fresh frozen (apricots) ........................
1,530.00
HAY -·-············· ·········-·····································

96

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MEAT, beef, steer, 16 carcasses 6091#-·-··········· 2,326.61
694.64
Heifer, 3 carcasses 1828# ......................
197.20
Exchanged 1 bull for beef ................... .
Pork, 96 carcasses 16587#---················· 6,424.30
103.00
Exchanged 1 sow for beef.. ................... .
.
...
....................
Rabbit 86# ....................
NUTS, Walnuts ....................................................
Vegetables, fresh ....................................................

'

3,218.45
6,527.30
43.00
80.00
199.90
11,809.65

The many .fine programs which were brought to the Home during
the past year by the lodges, Eastern Star Chapters and friends, are too
numerous to record here. We would like, however, to make special
mention of three programs which were, in our opinion, very outstanding .
August 15, 1953, the East Bay Matron's Association, Mrs. Clarabell
Migs, ·Past Matron, chairman; held their annual reception in honor of
Worthy Grand Matron Gilma Vick Moyer. Following the reception
a very interesting and enjoyable program was presented. At the conclusion of the ceremonies, Mrs. Essie Hickman, Past Matron of the San
Ramon Valley Chapter, announced that the good ladies of the associa-·
tion had presented the Home with 10, 152 jars of jams and jellies and
3,814 jars of assorted relishes, fruit juices, fruit cocktail, etc.
August 15th, Grand Master Arthur M. Warren, in company with
his gracious wife, made his official visit to the Home. The afternoon was
spent inspecting the various departments of the Home. In the evening
a reception was held in the auditorium in honor of Grand Master and
Mrs. Warren. Th·ey were escorted to the stage and introduced to the
members of the Home. His address which followed, was interesting
and certainly appreciated very much by the Home. Following Grand
Master Warren's address, he and his party were escorted to seats
reserved for them. Mrs. Loretta Hyman then took over and presented
a delightful program she had so painstaking ly developed for the occasion. Refreshments were served during the fellowship that followed.
This gave the Grand Master an excellent opportunity to meet and greet
the members of the Home.
The East Bay Masters and Wardens Association, headed by their
President, Wake.field Taylor, made their annual visit to the Home on
August 2, enjoyed a barbecue which they had prepared for them. They
then presented an excellent program which the residents of the Home
enjoyed very much.
Devotional services are held each Sunday at the Home. I am sure
you will agree that a word of commendation here to those Reverend
gentlemen who journey out to the Home each Sunday and bring such

.

97

comforting messages to the residents of the Home, is not entirely out
of place.
The Thursday evening programs which are provided by RKO,
Columbia Pictures, United Artists, Warner Brothers and Twentieth
Century Fox Film Distributing Companies of San Francisco, are greatly
llJ>preciated and enjoyed by the residents of the Home. To these .fine
organization s go our sincere thanks and appreciation.
The Trustees, Grand Master, Grand Secretary and other Grand
Lodge Officers, have made periodical visits to the Home during the
year. We appreciate these visits and urge their continuance, knowing
that the Home is going to benefit as a result of their visits.
In conclusion, the Home staff and myself wish to extend to our loyal
employees our sincere thanks for their loyal services. We also want
to assure the loyal members of the Home that we appreciate the fine
servi~e they are rendering to the Home.
Respectfully submitted,
J. R. Eu BANKS, Superintendent

98

99

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGB OF CALIFORNIA

Report of the Superintendent-Covina Home
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is a privilege and a pleasure to present to you my sixth annual
report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina,
for the year ending July 31, 1954.

sports program of their respective schools. This year the Home enjoyed
~ving the Student Body President of Charter Oak Grammar School:
Vice-President of the Student Body, and Girls' League President of
Covina High School; and the Student Body President at Mount San
Antonio College. Through these mediums our boys and girls and children of the community join in social events at the Home, such as dances,
picnics, barbecues, and swim parties. These social activities are planned
by the children; the older groups taking the responsibility of their own
special affairs, with the help and guidance of the houseparent. Attendance at Sunday School and church is the major part of our religious
training program; every child is encouraged to participate in the activities of the church of his choice. Various sports activities such as hikes,
weekend camping and fishing expeditions are frequently planned and
are supervised under our recreations program. Instruction in singing,
piano, ,a nd ballet, is optional with the individual child, and is a part of
our cultural training and development program. At the May meeting
of the Los Angeles Board of Relief. children of the ballet class presented
a program of their dances, and at the Big Family Christmas Party entertained our guests with a delightful and colorful dance program. At
frequent intervals throughout the year, films of special educational value
are presented to the children. Awards are given to those attaining high
scholastic grades in their school work; in this direction it is fitting that
we offer our sincere appreciation to The Westerners' Masonic Club of
Twentieth Century-Fox, for their kindness in including our boys and
girls in The Westerners' Scholastic Contest held each year. From kindergarten to the twelfth grade, seven Covina Home children won awards
in the 1953 contest, and attended the Award Dinner at the Twentieth
Century-Fox Studios. Two of our senior boys received special honors:
Harold Eller, '55, was sponsored by Sunshine Post No. 251, American
legion, to attend Boys' State at Sacramento, and Charles Burkhalter,
because of his outstanding work in the Masonic Pioneers 4-H Club,
was chosen to attend the Conference of 4-H Junior Leaders at the University of California, Davis Campus.

HOME MEMBERSHIP

Our Covina Home Family, as of July 31, 1954, numbers sixty-six.
We have in our Home Family thirty girls and thirty-six girls: of this
number twenty are seniors; nineteen are intermediates; and twentyseven a~e juniors. ~ring the fiscal year of 1953-1954 seven boys and
seven girls were admitted. In the same period seven boys and five girls
left us. Two girls by graduation, three girls and five boys who returned
to reesta~lished ~omes of their pai:ents, and two boys who were placed
on Outside Rehef. Our two graduates will enter college this fallPatricia Allison will attend Brigham Young University in Utah and will
major in p~ychology, and Joanne Pease will major in music-at the College
of the Pacific. Three boys and three girls graduated from Charter Oak
Grammar School and will enter High School this year.

Family Status
Orphans
H/0 Fathers Living
H/O Mo~ers Living
Both Parents Living
One Parent, One Stepparent

Children
10
9
14
19
14

Families
6
6
10

10
10

A recent classification of the children under our care shows the
following family relationship: six families of three children each; twelve
families of two children each; twenty-four families of one child. Of the
sixty-six children, twenty-nine attend Covina High School; thirty-five
attend Charter Oak Grammar School; two attend Barranca Grammar
School. Eight children, representing five families, are in the Home under
the membership of the grandparent. Total number of Masonic Lodges
having wards in the Home total forty-one, from forty-two families.
HoME, SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES

.The Covina Home is well represented in Bethel No. 98, Order of
Jobs Daught~rs: ten seniors and three intermediate girls being active
members of the Bethel. Patricia Allison, class of 1954, held the office
of Honored Queen of the Bethel. being the third of the Covina Home
Family to achieve that honor within the past two years. Three of our
senior boys are active members of George Washington Chapter, Order
of DeMolay. At Covina High School and Charter Oak Grammar
School the Home has been well represented in social and service clubs,
and many of the children have participated in the extra-curricular and

SUMMER PROGRAM

Under the supervision of a trained and competent staff, all our boys
and girls enjoyed a three-week vacation at the Coronado Youth Camp .
The "give and take," necessarily a part of camping together away from
home, and the individual self-expression allowed each child, brought out
the ·b est spirit of comradeship in each child. To the Brethren of the San
Diego Masonic Bodies, through whose kindness the children enjoyed
many interesting side trips and other forms of entertainment, we extend
our sincere appreciation.
HEALTH AND WELFARE PROGRAM

With the help and guidance of Dr. W. P. Magan, Sr. and his Associates, we are able to report a good year for the children's health and

100

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

welfare. We continue to stress "prevention" in our health program and
have had no serious health problems. At six months' intervals each
child has received a complete physical examination. Booster shots were
given and all children received smallpox vaccinations. Dental examinations were made at periodic intervals in the Home Dental clinic by
Dr. Elmer King (an Alumnus of the Covina Home) followed by necessary correction and treatment. Eleven children received . orthodontia
treatments from Dr. Townsend Paul, Pasadena. Two of our senior boys
received treatments from Dr. Victor Hackney and Dr. J. R. Scholtz,
Dermatologists, Pasadena. Two hundred, seventy-two orthodontia
treatments are recorded for the year. Dr. Wayne D. Kuetell, Optome~
trist, Covina, has heen most helpful in maintaining good vision by correct
glasses and visual training treatments whenever necessary. One hundred, fifteen children were admitted to our Home Hospital, with a total
of four hundred and one hospital days. Prophylactic treatments number
eighty-seven. Four thousand, five hundred and four Home Hospital
Clinic treatments were administered. We are especially appreciative
of the doctors' and nurses' work and devotion in behalf of the children's
welfare and for the constant vigilance of our child~caring staff in maintaining the health of each ·boy and girl.

and swine, the children purchase individual animals which become at
once their property, to feed and to care for. In the fiscal year of 19531954 twenty-two children participated in 4-H Club work, sixteen of this
number carrying animal projects. Eighteen animals were shown at the
Los Angeles County 4-H Club Fair on May 8 and 9, 1954, and a total
of twenty-four prizes were won. Of these, fourteen were first premiums,
eight second premiums, and two third premiums. In addition, the Champion Showmanship prize for the entire fair was won by Charles Burkhalter, '57, who has through the years been a strong supporter of and
a hard worker in 4-H _Club work. This award earned for Charles the
opportunity of visiting Davis Agricultural College in company with
other award winners throughout Los Angeles County. For the Covina
Family in this past fiscal year we have produced, butchered, and consumed in live weight eleven thousand, nine hundred, sixty pounds of
beef; three thousand, and thirty-five pounds of pork, and three hundred,
forty pounds of lamb. There has also been considerable work done in
reclamation of waste land which will e~entually give us added space
for our general farm program.

IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

We have ·placed the water softener equipment in the boiler room and
installed an additional sprinkling system to increase the value and use
of our pasture land. Each room in the children's dormitories is being
repainted. To the main kitchen however, we turned most of our improvement endeavors, resulting in one of the most up-to-date kitchens in the
institution field. As replacement equipment we installed an electric
dumb waiter and a modern dish scraper-dish washer combination, with
stainless steel stacking counter; a Hobart thirty-pound capacity vegetable peeler, equipped with brushes for washing vegetables; two Hobart
electric mixers--one ten quart size and one thirty-quart size; and a
Toledo electric meat slicing machine. Three stationary and three roll
tables were covered with stainless steel and a stainless steel apron was
added to the serving counter. A complete set of professional cutlery
was purchased and all walk-in refrigerators and pantries were given a
fresh coat of paint.
FARM AND MASONIC PIONEERS 4-H CLUB

The activities of our Masonic Pioneers 4-H Club compose a definite
part of our farm program and most gratifying results, throughout the
rive years of the Club's existence, have been achieved by our bOys and
girls. Our purpose is to impress upon the children that progress is being
made and must be continued if they are to compete with others in the
livestock business. From our 4-H herds of registered stock, both cattle

101

ENTERTAINMEN T

Our 1953-54 program has maintained its high level of recreational
and educational entertainment and the following are but a few of the
happy experiences our children enjoyed the past year. Through the
courtesy of six major motion picture studios, the best feature and comedy
films have been shown. These films are delivered to the Home and
returned to the studios through the kindness of Bliss Pickup and Film
Delivery Service of Alhambra. Members of Lexington Lodge, No. 104,
arranged a deep sea fishing trip for our senior Pc>ys. We attended the
Shrine Hi Football Classic and Pageant; the Annual Barbecue Picnic
of _Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380; the Sheriff's World Championship
Rodeo; special performances at the Glendora Theatre, Glendora; a deep
sea fishing trip aboard the chartered ·boat "Tornado"; the Los Angeles
County Fair at Pomona; the Shrine Circus in October and March;
Scout-0-Rama ; fishing and boating at Puddingstone Dam; weekend
trips to the mountains for snow sports; and skating, swimming, and
picnic parties. Children and staff participated in a costumed Hallow~
'een Party at the Home. Among the Christmas season highlights were:
The Thirty~First Annual Christmas Party of Monrovia Lodge No. 308
and Sojourner Lodge No. 607; the Tenth Annual Christmas Party of
Carmelita Lodge No. 599; the Richard Stoll Players in a one-act play
given in the Little Theatre of our Home, entitled "Christmas at the
North Pole"; The Westerners' Masonic Club (of Twentieth Century~
Fox Studios) Annual Christmas Party at the Home; Christmas Party
for the Junior Girls by El Segundo Assembly, Order of the Rainbow for
Girls; and on December 21, 1953, the "Big Family" Christmas Party.

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

During the spring of 1954 the El Monte America n Legion Post No. 261
gave a "Clown Show" at the Home; a Saint Valentin e Party was held
at the Home for the entire Family; and Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415,
by generously donating their musical talent, made possible a Job's
Daughte rs-DeMo lay Dance which was held in the main dining room on
April 9, 1954.
VISITATI ONS

Over five thousand visitors were welcomed to our Home during the
past fiscal year, represen ting more than sixty Lodges and other affiliated
Masonic organizations. We are sincerely appreciative of this keen
interest in the welfare of our children and in the facilities the Home has
to offer in carrying out its responsibility of preparin g boys and girls
for useful citizenship. We are grateful for the many donation s received,
for each gift, in its own way, brought happines s to the children. Our
Masonic Home Family extends to all members of the Fraterni ty a cordial
invitation to visit our Home and become acquaint ed -with our boys and
girls and members of the Home staff.
ALUMNI OF THE COVINA HOME

It is most encourag ing when visiting with members of the Alumni
body and in reading their correspondence___:to learn of their success in
business, the educatio nal field, industry, and in the Armed Services, but
perhaps the happiest note of all is the number of successful marriage s
and the expresse d desire on the part of many Alumni "to give my children the same kind of training I received at the Home." Members of the
Fraterni ty who sponsore d these children of yesterye ar have reason to be
proud of the men and women who grew to adulthoo d under the supervision of the Covina Masonic Home. Numerou s graduate s of recent
years are in the Armed Services. The Annual Covina Home...Coming
Day was well attended , as was the Alumni Reunion Dinner in San
Francisco, when Mr. Charles A. Adams and Mr. and Mrs. Charles M.
Wollenb erg were among the special guests. An invitation to the Covina
Home Reunion was sent to every active alumnus, and alumni residing
in the San Francisco area received an invitation to the San Francisc o
Reunion. A copy of the 1954 Masonic Home Newslet ter was sent to all
alumni, including those in the Armed Services; to Masonic Lodges currently sponsori ng a child in the Home; and to Lodges or members of
the Fraterni ty requesting a Newslett er.
In conclusion, I should like to express my sincere appreciation to the
Board of Trustees and to the Masonic Fraterni ty for the opportun ity to
b~ of service t() those less fortunate .
Respectf ully submitted,

RP13ER'J' M, HE~RY, Superint~nde,,t

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

103

REPOR T OF
MASON IC HOME S ENDOW MENT BOARD
1954

To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board takes great pleasure in
presenting, herewith, its twenty-s econd annual report covering the period from August 1. 1953, to July 31, 1954, inclusive.
The heart should thrill with joy and pride from the activities demonstrated by the Craft, over the years, in behalf of this great overall
Charity. No finer example of progress and accumulative activities
could be shown in any phase of our work than in the Endowm ent
Board program .
While the Endowm ent Fund was created by Grand Lodge in 1910,
the Endowm ent Board was not born until 1933; then, by Constitu tional
Amendment, such a Board was created and was charged with the responsibility of disseminating information about our two great Homes;
for the children at Covina, and our older folk at Decato.
Building an adequate endowm ent for anything is no small task.
When we consider the few short years of our activity and the limited
number of people, compara tively, which ·by the very nature of our institution are a part of this program , we may well be proud of the wonderful progress. After all, it was just an IDEA, but one which was founded
basically and fundame ntally and which has grown by leaps and bounds
into a practical REALIT Y, from a few dollars to approxim ately $5.600,000.00. Fortunat ely, it has that perpetui ty which is necessar y for the
success of any such program . We are graduall y, yet surely, getting
toward that goal so that in the future, we may realize a sufficient income
to support our two splendid Homes.
THE DEVEL OPMEN T AND PROGR ESS
It might be well for us to take stock and see how it has been possible to accomplish the results in such a few short years. First, let us
give credit to those who not only originate d the idea, but also to those
who took it seriously, served on the Board, and were willing to give
further time and thought to its development.
Things don't usually happen, people make them happen, and so it
is with the Endowm ent Fund. The Board members took their work seriously, devotedly, and enthusiastically, and have been able to show
progress. The Jurisdiction is divided into thirteen general areas. To
each area is assigned the responsibility of the educatio nal program in
that particula r district. Pamphle ts telling the story of our Homes have

104

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

been distributed and are available to all Lodges. These have reached
the in~ividual member of the Craft. His interest and his opportunity
for participation have been created. The Masters, Officers of the Lodges,
and the Endowment Fund Chairmen have made it possible that further
information be obtained and intimate stories of the activities have been
available. Meetings of the Districts have aided materially. We are very
indebted, indeed, to the very loyal Inspectors, and in many instances
by special appointed representatives of their Inspectorial District. Grand
Lodge officers and other Committee men have cooperated to the fullest.
Last but not least. the very effective work of the Most Worshipful
Grand Master by proclaiming May as Endowment Month, further, by
permitting us to use his message for wider distribution to the individual
members of the Craft. and most of all his powerful personal support;
all of these have added to the success of our year's work.
In recognition of all of these activities, your Board extends to each
and every one a sincere-APPRECIATION.

HoNOR LoDGES

THE REWARD
We may well be proud of the final result of the year's activities.
The Craft has responded in a masterful manner. Your Board, at all
times, has endeavored to show deference to the important Memorial
Temple Fund Program for the year. We have realized it might be difficult for many members to participate in every activity, but in spite of
all factors, the number of participating Lodges has increased, the num~
her of Honor Lodges has grown, and the over~all picture is a very
gratifying one. This can be best understood by the following tabulation :
CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH THE loDGES
1951 ............................................$241 ,939.20
1952 ············································ 267,502.18
1953 ············································ 330,888.49
1954 ............................................ 288,995.94
RECEIPTS PROM ALL SOURCES
1951 ............................................ $388,201.64
1952 ............................................ 346,898.90
1953 ············································ 557,316.40
1954 ............................................ 451,675.04
INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION
1951 .................................................... 60,801
1952 ···················································· 6.4,040
1953 ..................................................... 72,734
1954 ············•······································· 62,387

105

1951 ························································ 137
1952 ······················•·····•··························· 178
1953 .....:.................................................. 260
1954 ························································ 186
Accept this thanks from your Board, which is ·represented by the
following:

1954
EDMUND A. LocKETI
CLOVIS J. ROBERT
BYRON COLEMAN
LEONARD R. AVILLA
RuE W. SIMS

1955
0RNO E. TYLER
HARRY A. NAUMAN, JR.
JOHN M. GORDON
JoHN KAHLER
MARION A. LoNG

1956
ERNEST G. BASHOR
IRA D. WHEELER
LESTER A. PRICE .
NORBERT MIXTER
JoHN W. DAVEY

The Officers of the Board Are:
ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chairman
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice-Chairman (North)
EDMUND A. LocKETT, Vice-Chairman (South)
FRANCIS V. KEESLING, Treasurer
LLOYD E. WILSON, Secretary
• MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
DR. ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chairman
TESTAMENTARY GIFTS
Bequests have been received as follows, up to July 31, 1954:
Estate of:
Elizabeth Florence Altman..-----~-···-·--·-------·····-··-··-·-··$
Elizabeth A. EfkamP-··--···-···-··---····-····-·····-·-·----·--··--····Harriet B. Langan.....·--·-·--··--··--· ··
D. c. MarkU---·-···--····-·-- ····-·······-·-··-·-···---Julius H. Martin.-·····-·-··-·- ···-·---·--·--·-----Clara Nelson ···-·········································-············-····-····-·············-········-·······
-·-··-··-----·--··-·--·-···-···
Quinn_-·--------·-··-·············~--________________ _
Raymond
_____________________________________
Rothschild...
D. J.
Ethel

J. B. Rochac:hild.._...•--······-·-·····-····-···-----····--·-· -··-···-·-··-···-:....•

Bertha Sherwood ·········-·············································-·····················--················
Jared B. Sperry-·-··---··-·-···-·-·-·--··
·Frank Weber · - - · - - · - - - - - · - - - - Eugene Weill ·········--··································..··············-··-························-··········
G. Edwin Willl.ama;_··-··-----··-·-·-··············--···--·-·-····---··--··Joseph C. Wilson...-··--···-·····-····-····· -···-··-·---·-·-···---··-·······
··-----Rachael M. WimbY------···

l,000.00
100.00
2,500.00
5,000.00
3,486.57
125.00
8,080.88
3,321.36
120.42
697.48
2,620.62
70,087.08
2,280.00
500.00
5,238.89
746.34

$105,904.64

106

HONORABLE MENTION

MEMORIALS
Edward S. Adams
Alton V. Fuller
Thomas Aticheson
Robert B. Gaylord
Albert Baker
Monte Gluck
Thomas H. Barton
Bessie Goldsmith
Dir Beijen
Byron F. Goodwin
J. Vernon Gourley
James Beveridge
Mrs. John Bonhann
Arthur C. Green
Robert W. Green
Edward L. Booth
Dorothy Boyd
Raymond J. Greve
Lulu Boyd
George Gross
Earl M. Haguewood
Arthur W. Brouillet
Ray M. Hathaway
Bert Browning
Wilbur D. Burnham
Carl W. HefBefinger
Blanche Burris
Wynema Hickman
Herbert H. Hicks
Mrs. John J. Carroll
Walter D. Hollenbeck
Ernest 0. Chabot
William E. Howard
James Cohen
James Colvin
John A. Johnson
Alice Cook
Bert Karpeles
Charles G. Cortright
Reggy Kenison
George E. Crocker
Elva Kraemer
Harry A. Crosby
Edwin T. Lewis
Adam Miller Dahler
Louis Lipstone
Mrs. Aones Dean
Aileen Lubchenko
Ralph DeLaney
Thomas W. Lynch
Eugene Q. Dennenbaum
Filbert Brooks MacKeever
Sheldon Desmond
Minna MacKinder
Roland Diggle
Mrs. C. B. McAulay
Arthur H. McBain
Leon E. Dill
Clyde Downey
J. F. McCustion
Earle J. McMullin
Glenn B. Drake
Harry A. Duffy
Roscoe J. McMillin
William Duncan
Adele Manheim
Edwin Lee Dunlap
Mae C. Mason
Nellie Enos
Mrs. Roland Mason ·
Rolland Essinger
Neal Mitchell
Charles D. Fairbanks
William H. Mohr
Chris G. Flompouriadis
Claude H. Morrison
W. F. Moyer
Mrs. Anne Forbes
William F. Fosbery
Leona M. Nelson
Vivian Francis
Luba Newman
Oswald Herman Charles Frisch E. V. Nixon
Mary Olmo

107

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Howard E. Olson
Brother Patterson
Jay C. Perrin
Edward Pitres
William Purdu
Giles Rathburn
James C. Reid
Brother Reneke
Jack G. Reynolds
Charles Richards
Phyllis M. Roscittl
Alice Ross
Mary Dryer Rubke
Lloyd S. Ryerson
George Sanders
Joseph S. Schreiber
Albert T. Simmie
Charles M. Smith
Eugene Smith
Frank T. Smith
Laura Francis Smith
Zella M. Smith
Arthur J. Speight
Mrs. Molly Stephenson
Virgil G. Stocker
Gussie Struss
Charlotte Sutherland
Mrs. Ray E. Swearingen
John V. Tadrich
Ralph H. Tedford
Alfred J. Thibodeau
Albert E. Thompson
Seigfried Varnhagen
Joanna Lynn Waitman
Victoria Ann Walker
F. W. Whitney
John Wilkie
Paul S. Williams
Anabelle Wilson
William Word
Robert M. Wright
Mernice F. Young

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per member.
(Such contributions were made by 197 Lodges.)
Lodge
Members Total
No.
$1,128.00
1 California ···········-·····-·············································-····················· 543
1.855.00
805
3
461
662
418

21
30
41
42
60
61
93
120
128

143
149
166
167
168
178
192
194
198
200
202
207

............................................................................................................................................................................
....................................................................... ______. ,.,. ...................................................................

....................................................................................................................................................._____,,_,,....

211
220
226
237
241
242
260
262

264
272
273
277
278
279
287
291
299
308
309
315
320
322
324
326
329
332
333
335
343

............................................................................................................

·-·····---·---------···---·--···--------·-----------------------------·-------·---

Alhambra ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 651
Corona .............................................................................................. 470

~~i~:sd~·F;~;;~~··:::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: I~~

San Pedro ........................................................................................ 517
¢J.ta t ·G··················-················-···························--···················-·· 98
Sa~sFer:!~d-;;··-······························-··········-·························-········ 1~~

346 Palo Alto ........::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::: 754

349 Sequoia ···········-······-······-·-······-·····--·-···················-···················· 1069

946.00
1,333.00
907.37
1,875.00
40150
2,110.00
300.00
1,251.88
1.210.75
555.00
530.00
998.50
393.50
1,330.10
1,390.44
730.50
872.00
1,302.00
258.25
1,293.00
939.00
381.50
1,382.65
1,623.50
424.80
l,327.00
1.359.00
l,004.00
382.00
3,090.50
1,135.00
1.210.00
49350
1,794.00
461.00
533.74
907.00
673.00
713.61
485.25
593.00
1.506.75
l,325.00
953.75
790.00
287.75
1,050.00
196.00
2.521.55
1.439.93
1,520.50
2,175.00

108
No.
351
352
357
367

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge
Members
Palestine ..................................................- ...........____ .........- ...·- 606
Sunset ...................._....................................................................... 377
Buena Park ...............................................................-.................... 257
South Pasadena .................................._ ............................_ ..._ .. 616

~~~ ~~7og;~~-ci;..i:o~~~ci-;··:::::::::::.-.-.·::::::::::::::::::::::'.'.'.'.'.'.:::-.:::::::::::::::::: ~I~

377
378
379
383
384

Artesia ..............................................................................................
Mizpah ................................................................................................
Fillmore ............................................................................................
Orosi ..................................................................................................
El Centro .......................................................................-..................

200
524
245
152
455

394 University ...............................................--....................___.........
395 Turlock ..................- .....................................................-............
400 Burlingame .........................................................-----------·----402 Brawley .............................................................................-------405 Moneta .......-......................................................................................
406 Burbank ............................................................................................
409 Honolulu .............................................................................-............
414 Arlington ..........................................................................................
415 Silver Trowel ....................................................................- ....-......
418 Elysian ..................................................................................._ ..___
420 Kerman ..............................................................................................
424 Exeter ...........................................................................- ..............-.
437 Lancaster .......- ............................................................... - ....--...
438 Acacia ..........................................................................._..................
443 Schofield .......- .................... _ ...... _ .... _ ......... --..---..--.....
444 Carpinteria ......................................................................................
450 . Van Nuys .........................- ...........................- ..............- ...~.......
452 San Pasqual ........................................................................................
457 Ramona ..............................................................................................
458 Henry S. Orme ..................................................................................
462 Paul Revere ...................................................................-...............
464 Alta Vista ..........................................................................................
469 Yorba Linda ......................................................................................
470 Lincoln ..............................................................................................
476 Coachella ..........................................................................................
481 Mt. Davidson ....................................................................................
482 Clarence F. Smith ............................................................................
493 Atascadero .................................................- ..................--·-·---·
501 Westwood ...-....................................................................................
505 Silver Cord .._ ....,............ _ .....- ............... ~........- ...- - - · - 506 Mount Olive ........................:..........................- ..................-...........
515 Vermont Square ...............- ................................- ..................- 520 Ionic .................................................................- ..........______.,,
524 Catalina Island ..................................................................................
525 George Washington ......................................:...................................
527 Covenant ........................................................_................................
529 Loyalty .............................................................................-..............
535 Alexander Hamilton ........................................................................
537 Utopia .....................................................................................-........
543 Signal ................................................................................................
546 San Gabriel ............................................. _ .........-............................
547 Arcadia .................................................................................-..........
548 Triangle ................................................................... _ ........-............
563 South Park ............................................................................... _,_..
566 James A. Garfield ...................................................-......................
578 Progressive _ .....:.............................................................................
579 · Warren G. Harding ........................................................................
584 Harding ..............................................................................................

621
396
711
235
679
752
412
340
393
451
124
230
354
54
279
127
948
452
516
668
622
267
165
353
205
403
367
130
281
486
994
543
962
146
485
324
522
297
709
.519
492
475
306
427
239
538
582
276

~i~ ~~w;--=:~_-.:-.-.-.·:.-.-.-~:::::=::=:::::::::~~-.:::=:-.:-.-.:-.::~.:-.~.:-.=-.-.-.-.-.-.-.· :J1

Total
1.218.00
953.50
541.00
1,594.50
1.381.75
1.440.00
428.50
1,451.50
516.00
348.00
925.00
l,100.00
1,832.00
1,306.13
796.65
1.643.50
503.50
"1,402.00
1.534.80
898.00
711.50
850.00
1,012.48
254.50
460.00
720.00
113.00
578.38
325.10
1.903.89
1,099.50
1,050.00
1,527.34
l,305.76
536.00
370.36
l,040.00
415.00
1.183.00
751.00
294.91
590.50
990.25
2,210.00
l,122.75
1,927.70
299.55
972.50
661.50
1,182.50
600.00
1.523.84
1.050.00
1.077.00
1,034.65
623.50
909.00
727.41
1.134.00
1.178.50 .
767.49

No.
585
589
590
595

596

Lodge
· Members
Manchester ..............................................................- ..-.................. 382
Kauai .................................................................................................. 129
Compass ............................................................................................ 294
Alexander Graham Bell .................................................................. 282
Guardian ............................................................................................ 927
Pearl Harbor .....................................................................:.............. 593
Carmelita ............................................................................................ 349
Lynwood ............................................................................................ 450
Dimond .......................................................................-.................... 300

598
599
600
603
604
614
615 Hemet ................................................................................................ 177
616 R. E. Dolley ...................................................................................... 222
622 Atwater .............................................................................................. 367
623 Menorah ....................................... -.................................................. 874
627 Lamanda Park .................................................................................. 276
628 Truth .................................................................................................. 255
629 Fairview ............................................................................................ 286
633 Poinsettia ........................................................................................ 685
635 Riverside ............................................................................................ 403
636 John Marshall .................................................................................... 291
637 Palisades ............................................................................................ 409
639 Composite .......................................................................................... 460
641 James A. Foshay .............................................................................. 240
642 La Cumbre ...................................................................................... 267
645 A. F. E. Irwin .................................................................-................ 283
647 Hawthorne ........................................................................................ 455
650 La Brea .........- ............................................._ .................:...........__ 275
658 Livingston .............................................................. ______ .. _____ 177
659 La Habra ......................................................................- ..........-...... 193
661 Malta ............................................................................:..................... 224
662 Henry Knox ...................................................................................... 457
663 OJai .................................................................................................. 137
668 San Gorgomo .................................................................................... 230
672
677
678 Altadena ...................................................................................._..... 487
679
681
684 Trona .................................................................................................. 142
685 San Marino ........................................................................................ 330
686 Albany ................................................................................................ 209
689 Pohona ................................................................................................ 69
690 San Carlos ..........................................................- ....- .....-.......... 299
691 Indian Wells Valley .............................. ________ ..._ ___ .............-- 314
693 Palm Springs .................................................................................... 159
694 San Antonio ...................................................................................... 183
695 Meudell ..................................................................................-......... 149
696 Crossroads .................................................................................-.... 254
697 Saint Elmo ........................................................................................ 107
698 Wm. D. Stephens ..................................:......................................... 102
699 Bixby Knolls ...................................................................................... 244
700 Ponderosa .......................................................................................... 240
701
702
1
703 Westchester ..........................................................................- ....-.... 289
706 Hunters Point Naval ...............................................- -......... _...... 180
708
709
710
711 Rim of the World ..................................................... _ ....____....... 97

l:~~h~~;;t··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

~e~~i f:c_~_.:::::::::::::::::::~·:::::::::=:::.':.'::::::::::::.':.'.'::::::::::::.::::::::::::::: ~gg

5:bPaY=s-~_.::::".:::::::::::::::::::::::-.::::::-.:::::::::::::".".::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::: ~jg

~~~~~~dez..~-~-~~::.~:::::::::::::::'.'.'.'.'.'.::::::::::::::::::::::~·:::-.·::'.:.::-.::::::::::: i~

~=~fa~g ·:_::._:~::::~:~:-~::~~·=:~.:.:::~.:-~_:_:::~:_:_~::~.:_:.::::~_:_:::::=~~~:.=~:~== 1~

109
Total
865.00
269.00
594.25
654.75
1,857.50
1,190.00
842.10
932.50
602.17
723.00
830.00
367.00
464.00
785.25
3,223.00
594.71
655.75
712.50
1,375.00
824.50
613.66
910.50
1.015.oo ·
500.00
864.50
809.50
935.01
554.75
381.00
450.00
557.00
1,029.00
300.00
460.07
409.15
693.25
1,012.00
321.00
264.00
288.00
745.10
434.00
142.00
627.00
1.109.00
360.35
389.00
312.00
524.00
220.00
1.104.50
565.00
501.00
162.00
251.57
602.15
447.50
424.00
387.00
379.50
275.00

110

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Members
Lodge
No.
712 Los Altos ····························--·····-····························-··················· 92
714 Blue Lakes ·······-·····-·····-·--·-··········-···-·-···· ···-·····-··-··-- 119
715 Magnolia Park ··-······-·······-··---·-···-····-----··-· -··-·--- 134
1

~ ~g ~~1~~~~~~~~~~~~~:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:::::::::::::::::: ~I

~~~ ft~:;a~--~!~-~---:::·.::::::::::".~.".".:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=== 1~~
~~~ ~~~r,:e;· ~-~-~~.:.=::::=::.·=.·::::::::.~::.·~·-·.-::~:-.-.-::-.:.-.~::::::::::.=::::: ~~

!~ ~~;~~~~~~~::~~ fl

U. D. Polaris ···-······················-······-······-········-········-····················-·-···
U. D. Centennial .......-···················-·-·-··-·-···-······---··-··················
U. D. Golden Empire·-····-····---············-·-····- -··-·······-·-·----U. D. .Kit Carson ·········--······-········---··------- ·-·--··--·U. D. Hillsborough ···········-·-··- ······---·····---··-----·····-··--····
U. D. La Canada ···········-··········-··········-··············-······-···-··················
So. California Research ................................................................

Referred to Committee on Finance.

50
53
41
50
46
50
44

Total
204.00
241.50
399.50
293.00
135.50
163.00
155.50
358.00
227.00
204.50
192.95
155.50
154.66
162.00
111.00
117.00
100.50
110.00
168.50
156.53
110.50

111

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
For the past several years it has been the aim of the Board of Control
to bring to the craft the full realization of the importance of the work
performed by our Boards of Relief and our Employment Bureaus. For
some reason we have failed to reach a large majority of those who should
be interested. The message has been given at our Masonic Breakfasts
throughout the state. Every year during the communication of Grand
Lodge we have given the message to you by means of this report in the
hope that you would carry it back to your lodges. The ordinances of
Grand Lodge require that certain facts and figures be presented at each
communication.
During the past Masonic Year our Boards of Relief and Employ~
ment Bureaus have rendered services to hundreds upon hundreds of our
brethren, their widows and orphans. The value of this service within
our jurisdiction must be emphasized to the members of the craft.
Our Boards of Relief were established to aid the distressed among
our sojourning brethren and it is our duty to see to it that our needy
brethren are not permitted to suffer or to be made a burden upon others.
In this report you will find that during the past Masonic year nearly
$60,000 has been advanced for .actual relief, that our Boards of Relief
have been responsible for and have conducted nearly a thousand
Masonic funerals, that they have called upon more than 26,000 sick and
distressed sojourning Masons, their widows and orphans. This gives
but a brief pjcture of the volume of work of the 18 secretaries of our
Boards of Relief. To these men goes little credit from the craft. Of
necessity their work must be quietly performed. Names of recipients
cannot be used although on many occasions the Board of Control has
cited case histories believing that they would be of interest to the craft.
Secretaries must be continually on the watch for imposters. They must
be careful in the management of the affairs of their office so that no one
who is entitled to relief be turned away with his needs unmet. The very
nature of these cases requires the utmost care to insure proper sympathy
and understanding and to prevent embarassment. The Board of Con:.
trol has always operated on the theory that it would rather have· secre~
taries err on the side of generosity than to permit one Mason, his widow
or orphan to go away without receiving the help to which he ii;; entitled.
The Board of Control is pleased to report that in the administration
and supervision of our 18 Boards of Relief the year was without incident.
The utmost cooperation prevailed between the secretaries of our Boards
of R,elief, the managers of our Employment Bureaus and the Board of
Control. We praise the work that has been accomplished during the
past Masonic year as we have done on many occasions in the past.
Many of the men in this work are now growing old in the service of

112

113

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonry. Serious consideration must be given in the not too distant
future to the problem of securing others who will be equal in calibre to
the type of men who have represented us over the past years. Ill health
and advancing age is a fact that we must all face, and this is a problem
which some of our Boards of Relief now have directly in front of them.
It will be difficult to find replacements for the experience that they have
gained through years of contact, through the personal interest which
they have developed and for their honest and sincere love of the work
in which they are engaged. I am sure that it will be of interest to you
that over the years during which our Boards of Relief have been in oper..
ation there have been very few changes in the personnel of the secre..
taries of these boards. For some reason once a Mason becomes inter..
ested in the work of relief he seems to find no other avenue which gives
him as much personal satisfaction as to continue day after day, year
after year in following and relieving the distress of his brother Masons.

Were we to charge the fee allowed commercial employment agencies
within the state, our Employment Bureaus would have earned $249,453.

REPORT OF OuR BOARDS OF RELIEF

Since the close of the past Masonic year all 18 Boards have placed
on file with the Board of Control a complete record of the activities of
their office. This is required by the ordinances. All of the reports which
have been submitted have been audited by qualified accountants and
have been carefully analyzed by fhe Board of Control. During the past
year the report of our Boards of Relief shows as follows:
Advanced for relief --------------------$59,385.00
Funerals conducted ·-------············
951
Total calls made ·····-···-··-·-···········
26,497
Sick calls ·······-···-···-··-·············-----9,636
Investigations conducted ··----···-··
476
Relief calls ···-·-----····-·-·-···-··------·-···
6,305
Miscellaneous calls -·-·······-···-------·
10,080
Many of our Boards of Relief maintain Blood Banks for the benefit
of our Masonic Brethren and their families. During the past year these
boards made the following report:
Units of Blood Donated........................ 2,617
Units of Blood Withdrawn ..................2,745
This has resulted in a direct saving to our brethren of $71.785.00.
REPORT OF OuR EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

We maintain seven Employment Bureaus within the State, extending
from San Diego on the south to the East Bay on fhe north. All of these
bureaus have filed their audited reports with the Board of Control as is
required. From these reports the following statistics have been compiled:
Registered for employment during the past Masonic year.... 8,275
Placed in employment _________...................................................2,672
Positions offered by employers................................................ 5,586

You will not from these figures that during the past year the employ..
ment services have passed through a rather difficult period. We feel
that some explanation might serve as a guide so that you may better
understand t'he problems which these bureaus are now facing.
After the signing of the Truce there was considerable slump in em..
ployment. Contracts were cancelled and men were laid off by fhe thou ..
sands. Placements dropped consistently every month until December
of 1953, and naturally applications for employment increased. Begin..
ning with January 1954 employment began to increase, slowly of course
but encouraging. Many of our male applicants were in the higher age
group and these during times of general unemployment are hard to place.
Unfortunately, when conditions improved and we were getting more calls
for men, we found a shortage of truly skilled job candidates in practi..
cally all fields. During wartime employers got along as best fhey could
with what help was available. There had been no training programs of
any magnitude to make up for the shortage in many desirable skills.
This condition is general and even the trade unions have the same diffi ..
culty. Young men, either out of service or out of college, are not satisfied
to take training in any particular field but are anxious to get started to
work. Corporations now seem to be interested in young people whom
they can train for the future. Men and women with a college back..
ground can still find work, if they are satisfied with the wages offered,
and too often they are not. Many employment inducements are offered,
permanent emtJloyment, health plans, retirement, etc., and in many cases
the selection is made directly from the college graduating class. Con ..
sequently, many openings never reach the open market to be filled.
Closed shop contracts of many labor unions are another bar to our secur..
ing employment for our people.
We are convinced after many years of experience in this work that
the fraternal angle of our service has been responsible for many of our
placements. Many competeot people do register with us for employment
and many employers prefer to deal with us when they need help. A
satisfied employer can be our best booster if we are able to give him the
kind of help that he is looking for. We prefer not to fill vacancies with
incompetent people merely for the sake of making a placement as this
may tend to antagonize an employer. We know of many instances where
our people, being advanced in age, have been placed through our employ..
ment bureaus and we are confident that they never would have found
employment otherwise.
We have a heavy listing of men who, through compulsory retire..
ment at 65, are not able to make ends meet on the small pension they
receive. These men are hard to place today on account of the economic

114

115

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

situation, whereas, a few years ago we were able to place a great many
of them, and employers were glad to get them for their reliability.
One of our bureaus reports that it receives very few calls for female
help except in the clerical field, and it reports that the majority of its
placements during the past year was stenographers mostly in the higher
salary bracket. This year it has had more high school graduates register
for this type of work than in the combined total of the past ten years.
This is 'partly due to the fact that in prior years these girls went right
to work for the government after graduation whereas today there are
no positions available due to the rigid curtailment.
This presents the general picture, as we see it, of the conditions
existing within employment bureaus as of today. We do not feel that
there is any immediate hope of any change. It is impossible to create
jobs when there are none available. It is also of interest to note that
while the work of our employment bureaus has dropped off materially
the duties of our Boards of Relief have increased considerably.
When the Board of Control met in Los Angeles in February and
again at its meeting in June in San Francisco, we discussed the problem
with our employment managers and informed them that the Board of
Control was watching the current situation very carefully and was
weighing the advisability of discontinuing our Masonic Employment
Bureaus.
This statement does not mean that we have reached any final conclusion on the matter but is simply mentioned to call attention to the fact
that the Board of Control recognizes the problems confronting us and
is conscious of the expense in maintaining our Employment Bureaus.

Case No. 1 was from the Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco
and was for $175.00 advanced to relieve the distress of a brother from
the Grand Lodge of Scotland. Since that time the Grand Secretary of
the Grand Lodge of Scotland has written wherein they state that this
amount is being forwarded to the San Francisco Board. This case is
therefore closed and no recommendation is necessary.
Case No. 2 is a request from the Masonic Board of Relief of the
East Bay for reimbursement in the sum of $150.00.
The sum above mentioned was to pay for the cost of a Masonic
burial of a brother belonging to Innocents Lodge No. 224 of the Grand
Jurisdiction of Scotland. A letter to his lodge brought a reply and
advised that the deceased brother was not in good standing with his
lodge at the time of his death and that the lodge had unanimously agreed
not to reimburse the sum requested.
The Board of Control feels that the secretary used his best judgment
based on the evidence available. It is the opinion of the Board of Control
that even though an error may have been made in providing a Masonic
burial for one who was not in good standing, nevertheless evidence
available at the time seemed to indicate otherwise and that therefore the
Masonic Board of Relief of the East Bay should not be penalized for its
actions.
The Board of Control therefore has recommended to the Finance
Committee that the Masonic Board of Relief of the East Bay be reimbursed in the amount of $150.00.
Case No. 3 is a request for reimbursement from the Masonic Board
of Relief of Santa Monica Bay. A member of Alamo Lodge No. 44 A.
F. & A. M. of the Grand Jurisdiction of Texas received assistance in the
amount of $52.00. Repeated attempts to secure this amount from the
brother's Lodge were without success. The Board of Control therefore
has recommended to the Finance Committee that the Masonic Board of
Relief of Santa Monica Bay be reimbursed in the amount of $52.00.

REQUESTS FOR APPROPRIATIONS

The Board of Control has recommended to the Finance Committee
that the following appropriations to our Employment Bureaus be granted. It has been customary for Grand Lodge to assist the bureaus financially so as to maintain them at their present high standard.
The Masonic Employment Bureau of East Bay.... $ 2,500.00
300.00
Fresno ··········--······---·-·-··-··------·-··---······-·····-··-···--··-·-300.00
Glendale ·--···-·-·······-·----····-··-------·--········-··-···············
Long Beach .............................................................. 1,950.00
Los Angeles ·······················--·················-······-····-····· 6,500.00
San Diego ················--·································-············ 2,400.00
San Francisco ·························-·············--···-·-···-·---·-· 1,500.00
$15,450.00
REQUESTS FOR REIMBURSEMENTS

The Board of Control has received three aplications for reimbursement from our Boards of Relief.

BOARD OP CONTROL

The Board of Control has met three times during the past Masonic
year, having met with the representatives of our Southern California
Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus in Los Angeles in February
and with the representativees of our Northern California Boards of
Relief and Employment Bureaus in San Francisco in June. The Board
of Control is now in session during this communication of Grand Lodge.
'epresentatives of the Board of Control have been in attendance at all
of the Masonic breakfasts.
We wish to take this opportunity to express our appreciation for
the cooperation and the many courtesies extended to us by the secretaries of our Boards of Relief and the managers of our Employment
Bureaus, together with all of their duly elected representatives. It has

117

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

been extremely gratifying to work with.these brothers. We recommend
that the members of Grand Lodge become better acquainted with these
men personally and that you become more familiar with the work which
is being done on relief and employment within your jurisdiction. Such
knowledge will bring pride and gratification to you and will undoubtedly
stimulate your interest in the work of the craft.
Respectfully submitted,

2. That the publication "California Freemason" be continued and
that an appropriation of $8.000.00 be made to defray its cost.
T 'he absence of recommendations for amendments to our law indicates the desire of the Grand Master to enforce rather than augment the
body of our constitution and ordinances. His message is a record of accomplishment and his recommendations point the way toward greater
goals. This Grand Lodge will be the stronger for his service.

116

JACK C. BUTLER
JoHN T. MARTIN
GuYA. ToLLE
HARRY F. WHITE
REGINALD M. MILLS

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Segregation to which has been referred the annual message of the Grand Master, reports of the Grand Treasurer,
Grand Secretary and the Grand Lecturer and various Committees, sub..
mits the following report:
We recommend that portions of the Grand Master's message be
referred to the committees indicated below.
To the Committee on Jurisprudence and the Committee on Policy and
'
General Purposes:
1. Recommendations of the Grand Master relative to the report of
the Committee on Publications, together with the report of that
Committee to be considered jointly.
2. Recommendation for the enlargement of the Charters Committee.
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
1. The action of the Grand Master in the revocation o.f sanctions
relative to certain publications.
2. The action of the Grand Master in the suspension of the Master
of a Lodge in conjunction with the handling of relief funds.
3. Decisions numbers ( 1 ) to ( 21 ) .
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. That the incoming Grand Master appoint a Special Committee
on the old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the Commit~
tee on Finances:
1. The recommendation that a visit to the Hawaiian Islands be authorized for Past Grand Master Leslie E. Wood at the expense
of Grand Lodge.

GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT

1. We recommend that the portion of the Grand Secretary's Report
relative to Lodges under Dispensation be ref erred to the Committee on Finance.
2. We recommend that the portion of the Grand Secretary's Report
relative to change of meeting place be ref erred to the Committee
on By~Laws.
Other portions of the report require no reference by this Committee.
The Grand Secretary and his office staff continue to provide the
many committees of Grand Lodge with invaluable assistance in their
work. This Committee has an opportunity to review this work and to
thank our Grand Secretary on behalf of all Grand Lodge.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

We recommend that this report, that of the Investment Committee,
the Masonic Temple Association of California and the Auditor's Report
be jointly referred to the Committee on Finance.
•

GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT

We recommend that this report be ref erred to the Committee on ·
Finance.
COMMITTEE REPORTS

We recommend reference of Committee reports as follows:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. Report of the Committee _on Masonic Information.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the Committee on Finance:
1. Report of History Committee.
To the Committee on Finance:
1. Report of Directors of Masonic Club House at Berkeley.
2. Report of Directors of Masonic Club House at U.C.L.A.
3. Report of Committee on De Malay.
4. Report of Committee on Columbia Temple.
5. Report of Special Committee on Taxation.
DoN G. CAMPBELL
KENT 0. SEYMOUR
SAU YEE CHANG

Adopted.

118

119

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON 35TH ANNUAL
OBSERVANCE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

tempt to do so, but again it must be remembered that there are many
problems such as the election of new masters and their appointment of
committee chairmen. Many of the lodges continue their committees from
year to year, which enables the group to start their programs at an early
date which, of course. is very desirable. This year there has been a
noticeable increase in the number of lodges which have banded together
to do an over-all outstanding job on their observance. We urge each of
you . to consider this possibility for a stronger committee where your
geographical boundaries permit such action.
Our committee has under consideration a design for car cards, quarter cards and similar advertising pieces so that uniformity throughout
the state may be a possibility. Whether or not we can successfully handle such a program will be determined within the next few weeks.
We will again use our postage meter cancellation slugs, which have
been very successful in previous observances. One committee reported
over one-half million impressions by the companies which they contacted.
This quantity can be multiplied many times through the efforts of our
other committees. We are planning to adopt a design which will not
have the dates so that it can be used each year reducing the amount of
solicitation of cooperation on the part of firms using this type of postage
meter machine.
We will also repeat the cancellation hubs used in the post office machines. During the 1954 observance six such cancellation hubs were
used. This means that the information on California Public Schools
Week observance has reached all parts of the world.
The date pf the observance of Public Schools Week has been traditionally held starting with the fourth Monday in April, which in 1955
would be April 25th-30th. The date, of course, is subject to proclamation of the Grand Master.
The observance of Public Schools Week, as each of you knows. has
been sponsored by the Grand Lodge since its inception. It is no secret
to the people of California that we sponsor this event and that we have
over the years kept it free of all matters pertaining to politics, religion
or that which is controversial. It is our plan to continue this policy. It
is therefore important that each committee endeavor to have their programs on a community-wide level. All of the citizens should be invited
to participate. Various service clubs have united with our committees
where the program is on a civic or community wide level. However,
where a few committees have called the program a Masonic Public
Schools Week, such participation on the part of service clubs is absent.
This method is not desirable for many reasons. We hope that you will
give this matter your careful consideration when you plan your 1955
observance.
The committee has again arranged for a display of your reports in
Polk Hall of this auditorium, and we are pleased with the results obtained. There is an evidence of ever increasing public support, both

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The fact that for thirty-five years an ever increasing number of
schools, individuals and organizations have participated in the Masonic
sponsored observance of Public Schools Week is in itself a testimonial
of the soundness of this program. The cumulating years only add to the
stature and enduring qualities of this event which has become recognized as an institution in the calendars of the public schools of California
and Hawaii.
Perhaps one of the most outstanding events in connection with the
1953 Public Schools Week was the telegram received on February 13,
1954, from Kenneth Wells, President of Freedoms Foundation. The
wire advised that we were selected number one in the General Category
and would be awarded the George Washington Gold Medal and a
check for $1.000. The medal was presented by Dr. Milton Eisenhower,
presiding at the ceremonies. Dr. Eisenhower is the president of the
· University of Pennsylvania and brother of the President of the United
States.
Freedoms Foundation was chartered in March 1949. Its national
awards go to Americans and American organizations recognized for
their contributions to better understanding of American freedoms
through the things they do. The awards are determined by juries of not
less than thirty American citizens of national distinction, one third of
whom must be State Superior Court Justices.
·
The program of the award ceremonies at Valley Forge was nationally broadcast and the news story carried by news and feature services.
This was national ·recognition of this Jurisdiction's own Public Schools
Week Program.
That portion of the cash award over and above the actual travel
expenses was, after consultation with the Grand Lodge Committee on
Finance, expended to further the Public Schools Program.
It is a source of added satisfaction to those who work with Public
Schools Week to see it being adopted by Masonic Grand Lodges in
other states. A kit of our California Public Schools Week material has
1been sent to each Grand Lodge in the United States so that they may
have a better knowledge of our program. We are extremely pleased
with the unexpected response. Many evidenced interest. The Grand
Lodges of Wyoming and North Carolina informed us last month that
they plan to inaugurate a program at once. Last year Colorado launched
their program and Texas has completed their fourth &uccessful observance. We understand that Arizona and several others have continued
their various public schools events.
We have continued to receive suggestions from some of our lodge
committees to get the material to them at an earlier date. We will at-

120

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

from newspapers. radio, TV and other supporting organizations' and
service dubs. The display should be studied by those of you who are
interested in developing new ideas for your committee. You should by
perusal secure enough material to freshen your local programs and to
add to their scope.
We have asked for suggestions through our questionnaire form and
many of you have offer~d some very constructive ideas. We hope that
several of them can be used this next year. We have sent out one
follow-up letter calling for late reports so that our committee might complete its report to the Grand Master. Thanks for your prompt response.
Last week we received a report .from one of the lodges in response to
our follow-up and in perusing its contents we secured the prize suggestion of the entire observance. Under the heading of suggestions for the
Grand Lodge Committee, our good :b rother wrote,
"Please send remind.
er sooner.
A report of our activities has been printed and we recommend that
each of you read your copy. I want to take this opportunity to thank
all who have participated in this program and to especially mention the
many Grand Lodge officers and inspectors who have added their support by encouraging the lodges to greater effort. This support is most
helpful. Also to the members of our Grand Lodge Committee, both present and absent, my sincere thanks for a job well done.
Benjamin Franklin is credited with saying, "A Bible and a newspaper in every home. A good school in every district well studied and
appreciated as they merit, are the principal support of virtue, morality
and civil liberty."
It is our recommendation that the Public Schools Week Co;~~
be continued and that the sum of $4.000 be appropriated to carry on the
observance.
Respectfully· submitted,

Report of Committee
on
Thirty-Fifth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week
San Francisco, October 11, 1954
'
To the M. W. Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

.

GEORGE D. GAVIN
LoWELL K. BAIN
FORREST H. KECK
HERSHAL
LAY
PERRY H. BARRETI
HARRY L. BUCKALEW
THOMAS E. P. Wooos
GEORGE K. PALMER
CLARENCE
SMITH
WILLIAM L. CURRIE
A TWILL MORGAN
WILLIAM P. COLEMAN
FRED
0RGAR
A. T. KLINE

J.

c.

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

121

INTRODUCTION

The .fac~ .that for thirty-five years an ever increasing number of
schools, md1v1duals and organizations have participated in the Masonicsponsored observance of Public Schools Week is in itself a testimonial
of the soundness of this program. The cumulating years only add to the
statur~ an~ e~du~ng qualities of this event which has become recognized
as an institution m the calendars of the public schools of California and
Hawaii .
.For the first time, just prior to the 35th. anniversary of this occasion,
national recognition was given to Public Schools Week when Freedoms
Foundation at historic Valley Forge conferred, on Washington's Birthday. the gold medal "For Outstanding Achievement in Bringing About
a Better Understanding of the American Way of Life." The presentation was made by Dr. Milton Eisenhower. The ceremony was nationally
broadcast.
It is a source of added satisfaction to those who work with Public
Schools Week to see it being adopted by Masonic Grand Lodges in
othe~ states. At the present time similar programs are now being carried
out m many Grand Jurisdictions. A kit of our Public Schools Week
material has been sent to each Grand Lodge in the United States so that
they may have a better knowledge of our program.
Each year, too, the volume of inquiries from outside the jurisdiction
increases and Public Schools Week has become a year round obligation
for the General Committee in keeping up with this correspondence.

SCOPE AND OBJECT.OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
Each year an ever increasing number of our Brethren who serve on
their local Public Schools Week programs know that this event does
. not "just happen." It is the result of long weeks of planning and preparation.
The planning, naturally; starts with the General Committee. It is
the function of this committee to coordinate the programs of the various
local committees, to give them a certain degree of uniformity in order
to gain added force and effect in the over-all campaign.
The General Committee supplies a series of mailings to local committees, a speaker's manual, publicity and radio-TV press books, together with an informative guide to the planning and execution of a
program and supplemental correspondence developed.
Behind all of this, however. is the correspondence that enlists the
participation of many state-wide groups. The General Committee has

122

123

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

~ts own special radi~ and television chairman, always selected from the
industry who, on his own letterhead and over his own signature, sends
out an appeal to all stations for their participation. Copies of the radio
and television booklet are enclosed with his letter.
. . It i~ the further function of the General Committee to solicit the partlc1patlon of large users of metered mail to advertise Public Schools
Week with a special slug. In addition, this past year, the General Committee solicited and obtained the cooperation of the Postmaster General
in the adoption of a cancellation hub in the post offices of: San Francisco, .Oakland, Los Angeles, San Diego, Sacramento and Fresno. The
California Teachers Association generously agreed to share the cost of
the production of the necessary hubs for the cancelling machines. Millions of pieces of mail went out all over the state, to the nation and the
world heralding California's 35th annual Public Schools Week.

Some years ago it was the custom of the Lodges to conflne their
program to events held within Lodge halls. Gradually the practice developed of taking the event to all the people, since the concern and
understanding of the schools was a matter for everyone.
Also the practice has developed of certain lodges in a given area
banding together in their plans for the event. This has proved especially
effective where two or more lodges are making appeals to the same
newspapers, radio and television stations, schoo~ authorities and other
organizations.
It is noteworthy that since this custom has spread throughout the
jurisdiction Public Schools Week has grown and developed in importance until now Governors, the Legislature, Mayors and countless groups
have added their commendation and support. The General Committee
believes that all members of the Fraternity can take a justifiable pride
in the following that has been recruited for this Masonic created and
sponsored event.
·

THE MATTER OF TIMING
Some local committees have expressed a desire to get material earlier
from the General Committee. It has been the custom for the first mailing
piece to go to local chairmen shortly after the first of the year. One
reason for this is that new Masters elected at the close of the year frequently do not get around to the task of naming chairmen for the ensuing year until that time. Another reason is that there is a limit to how
far in advance the General Committee can get its preparatory pieces in
the mail. This is not due to a lack of energy on the part of the General
Committee but the proportions of the task in bringing so many indi~
viduals actually and actively into the event. To accomplish this requires
sustained perseverance.
One answer to this problem is in the local committees themselves.
Each committee plans its program and activities on the foundation of a
rich heritage of the past. Each new committee can be stimulated and
guided by the accomplishments of the committees that have preceded it.
If local committees avail themselves of the background help that is
available to them in their own lodge group they can be well advanced
and prepared for the execution of a full program. Pour months should
be adequate to accomplish this if the job is undertaken with the understanding referred to above.
In reviewing the reports of various lodges one thing stands out clearly
and that is that the best programs are those where one chairman passes
on to next year's chairman a full and detailed account of those things
found most successful in the preceding years.
.

TAKING THE SCHOOLS TO THE PEOPLE
The object of Public Schools Week is to make the schools the common interest and concern of all citizens. Public Schools Week has no
ax to grind. It enters into neither local nor jurisdiction-wide issues. The
event is founded on the principle that if the people are interested in the
.schools all issues fall into their proper perspective.

FREEDOMS FOUNDATION AWARD

Perhaps one of the most outstanding events in connection with the
1953 Public Schools Week was the telegram received by the General
Chairman February 13, 1954 from Kenneth Wells, president of Pree.doms Foundation advising that the George Washington Gold Medal
had been awarded to this event.
·.:Q x ,.....

-~ ~=-- ~:'~,.;:./·;·. ~~·::::·~-· --~ .'.'.:.:.=:~::;11-·->· ~::·_:·>=:.~i-t::x~:::~~: :-~~§~l::1~1

124

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The medal was presented by Dr. Milton Eisenhower, presiding at
the ceremonies. Dr. Eisenhower is the president of the University of
Pennsylvania and brother of the President of the United States.

Local committees are activated only with the cooperation and participation of their school authorities. It has always been a primary instruction to committees after their organization to first visit their school
authorities and enlist the latter's support and participation. Without this
it is difficult to put on an effective program.
This always has been one of the delicate points in the program and
required tact and an understanding of the relationship of the committee
with the schools. There was always the possibility too of lack of knowledge on the part of some school officials as to the proper sanction behind
the event.
When the California Teachers Association duplicated some of the
program of the General Committee but directed its campaign at the
schools of the state; the chance of misunderstanding was eliminated. The
effect was seen almost instantly in greatly stimulated school participation.
One of the principal pieces of mailing sent out to the teachers was
a manual showing the schools how to take the schools to the people and
how to bring the people to the schools. This same guide also showed
the teachers how to cooperate with the citizens committees sponsoring
Public Schools Week.
All of the association's campaign reached its 72,000 teacher members
either directly or through their schools or teachers' clubs; the latter include more than 500 clubs in the state.
The California Teachers Association also directed a major campaign
to enlist the support of radio and television stations, supplying the latter
with a series of slides to be used in announcing Public Schools Week
and the date. •
The General Committee is deeply grateful to the California Teachers
Association and its members for their help and trust that Public Schools
Week will long enjoy their cooperation.

Freedoms Foundation was chartered in March 1949. Its national
awards go to Americans and American organizations recognized for
their contributions to better understanding of American freedom through
the things they do. The awards are determined by juries of not less than
thirty American citizens of national distinction one third of whom must
be State Superior Court Justices.
The program of the award ceremonies at Valley Forge was nationally broadcast and the news story carried by news and feature services.
In San Francisco one of the city's largest retail stores requested the use
of the medal for display purposes in a window entirely devoted to the
35th annual Public Schools Week.
This was national recognition of this Jurisdiction's own Public
Schools Week Program.
That portion of the cash award over and above actual travel expenses was, after consultation with the Grand Lodge Committee on
Finance, expended to further the Public Schools Program.

CALIFORNIA TEACHERS ASSOCIATION
JOINS IN PROGRAM
A new force was recruited to the 35th annual Public Schools Week
this year when the powerful and influential California Teachers Association joined hands with the General Committee in organizing the schools
and teachers behind this event.

125

RADIO AND TELEVISION
As in past years the General Committee solicited and obtained the
participation of an outstanding executive in the radio and television
industry to head up this phase of the event. In this instance the 1954
chairman was Mr. Philip G. Lasky, Jr., manager of KSFO and KPIX.
Mr. Lasky on his own letterhead addressed a personal letter to the
owner or manager of every radio and television station in the jurisdic_tion.
The following is a copy of the letter sent out by Mr. Lasky:
"I am writing you in behalf of the public schools of California
which at this time would appreciate the co-operation of the radio
and television industry.
"Like many other aspects of our democratic life, the public
school is too often taken for granted. And yet we can be proud of
the fact that when our pioneer forefathers held California's con-

126

:PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

stitutional convention in 18i9 the principles of a public school
system were defined and written into the document. They recognized in public education one of the greatest democratic ideals.
"More than a generation ago a group of civic minded men
decided to institute an annual event that would afford the people
an opportuni ty to see what the schools were doing in the preparation of youth for the responsibilities of citizenship. Through the
understan ding created in various communities throughou t thestate our school system has prospered . But the jo'b is never done.
Today, just as in 1920, when the first Public SchooJ.s Week was
held, there is a desperate need of classroom teachers and in many
instances a shortage of classrooms.
"I have heen asked to head up a radio and television committee for the 35th annual California Public Schools Week to be held
April 26th through May 1st. You may be contacted by a local
committee but whether you are or not I want to urge your support of this worthy undertakin g.
"Attached is some factual material that I hope will be helpful
in developing your plans for participati on."

Federation of Labor, George H. Wilson, president California Farm Bureau Federation , Eugene M. Prince, president of the State Bar of California, Mrs. Gertrude Williams, president of the League of Women
Vo~ers, Malco~m Champlin, chairman of the American Legion's Americanism Committee, Mrs. Amelia Marvin, president of the California
Division, American Association of University Women, Mrs. P. D. Bevil,
president of the California Congress of Parents and Teachers, and Mrs.
Joseph C. Wenger, president of the California Federation of Women's
Cluibs.
There is a growing number of newspape rs that m·a ke Public Schools
Week the occasion to get out special editions or sections. The cooperation of the local merchants in the matter of supporting advertisin g frequently makes these special editions possible.
T~e v~lume of news and editorials for l 95i broke all previous records, JUdgmg from the reports received from local chairmen.

NEWSP APER SUPPOR T
Public Schools Week always enjoys a wide acceptance by the press.
This is part of the heritage that is enjoyed by those working on an event
that has a rich tradition of many years.
There was a time when newspape r editors and others had to be told
what Public Schools Week was and what it endeavore d to accomplish.
Today the problem is largely a matter of bringiiig the anniversa ry to the
editors' attention and supplying such timely, factual data as to give the
news or editorial comment a fresh slant.
The General Committee endeavors to meet this need with a press
book, containing news stories and suggested editorial material. Each
year in preparatio n for this the General Committee does a research
project that endeavors to find those things most important to the schools.
This past year it was the matter of the tragic shortage of teachers and
classrooms. This was due to the influx of the great number of war and
postwar babies now reaching school age and the shifting of populations.
This year's press book included a memorandum of instruction to
chairmen and stories: ( 1 ) announcing the dates, ( 2) on the current
annual shortage of 13,000 accredited teachers, ( 3) on spread of Public
Schools Week to other states, ( 5) symposium of statements by President Eisenhower, Chief Justice Earl Warren and Governor Goodwin
Knight, and ( 5) series of shorts on statement s by Grand Master Frank
Harwell, Jr., Dr. Robert C. Gillingham, president of the California
Teachers Association, Mr. Neil Petree, president California State Chamber of Commerce, C. J. Haggerty, secretary- treasurer California State

127

SPECIAL ACKNO WLEDG EMENT !
Again the Lodge reports were most complimentary in pointing out
the splendid support, patience and untiring efforts of all education al authorities-- superinten dents, principals, faculty and individual teachers.
Without their help the traditiona l success and growing importanc e of
Public Schools Week Observan ce would be an impossibility.
The Grand Lodge of California owes a debt of gratitude for the unparalleled and Jmselfish support of this growing event by individual s
a.n~ mem~ers of National, State and local organizati ons who have partiapated m the 35th Annual Observan ce of Public Schools Week.
We submit this partial list of acknowledgement, fully realizing its
inc~mpleteness. The overwhelming number of organizati ons lending
their support, reported by the individual Lodges, forces us to submit this
PARTIAL LIST OF APPREC IATIVE ACKNO WLEDG EMENT.
Regretfully it cannot encompass all of those groups which gave of their
time so unselfishly.
Newspape rs of every size, from weeklies to great metropolitan
dailies devoted entire editions, editorials, cartoons, columns and
news space to Public Schools Week publicity. Radio and TV
networks gave generousl y of their time, in some locations broadcast and televised school programs, which produced outstandin g
results in local areas.
Ministerial associations, pastors, Lutheran Men's Club,
Methodist Men's Fellowship Club, and other church groups were
equally cooperative.
Government, business and industrial organizati ons were most
generous in their support of the Observanc e.

128

PROCEEDING S OP THE

Fraternal, educational, labor and many other bulletins, magazines and house organs were equally cooperative.
Many Grange organizations, 4-H Clubs and Future Farmers
participated.
Local. cultural. professional Women's Clubs, such as American Association of University Women, Business and Professional
Women's Clubs, Women's Improvement Clubs, Soroptomists,
Native Daughters, and American Legion Auxiliaries.
State, city and county officials, including local fire and police
departments and city councilmen.
P.T.A. and various Mothers, Dads and Parents Clubs
throughout the State.
Industrial, business and labor organization s, Businessmen's
and Merchants Associations, individual firms, and in addition
Chamber of Commerce groups. Junior Chamber of Commerce.
American Legion Chapters, Veterans of Foreign Wars, various
members and divisions of the military armed forces, Optimist,
Civitans groups.
DeMolay, Rainbow for Girls, Job's Daughters, Hebrew
Daughters, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts Bnd High 12 Clubs.
Rotary. Kiwanis, Lions, Lioness, Exchange, 20-30, Toastmasters, Toastmistre ss, Breakfast, Boosters and Quota Clubs
gave most generously of time and unselfish effort.
The California Teachers and District Teachers Associations
were most helpful.
Elks, Eagles, Moose, Odd Fellows, Scottish Rite, York Rite,
Shrine Clubs, B'nai Brith. Sciots, Order of the Eastern Star,
Knights of Pythias.
The incompleteness of this listed acknowledg ement of appreciation
is realized. The Grand Lodge Committee depends on local Lodge acknowledgement to correct this defect.

STATE DEPARTM ENT OF EDUCAT ION
ENDORSE S PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
Roy E . Simpson, state superintend ent of public instruction, in his
January issue of California Schools devoted his leading article to the
35th annual Public Schools Week.
"Public Schools Week will be observed in California during
the week beginning April 26, 1954," he said in part. "Throughou t .
this week the Public Schools of California will have the opportunity to make known the educational advantages that are avail-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

129

able to children, youth and adults. In this endeavor they can
indicate with pride the improvements that have been made in the
educational program during the past year, the pressing problems
with which the schools are faced and how these problems may
best be solved.
" ... California's outstanding program· of education should
be known and understood by all of the people living in the state.
When understood by all of the people as a program responsive to
their needs this program will be preserved and improved. To help
people gain this knowledge and understandi ng is the main .purpose of Public Schools Week.
"Many devices and activities for bringing the people to the
schools and the schools to the people have proved successful since
this week was first observed in 1920...• If every California community is to have enough physical facilities and enough welltrained teachers to maintain the public school .p rogram .•. there
must be understandi ng and cooperation of the entire community."

RECAPIT ULATION
Public Schools Week has now reached the enviable age of thirtyfive years of observance. It is widely accepted by public officials, the
press, radio and television and by many organization s recruited to the
banner of MasQnry in safeguardin g and furthering the interests of the
Public School.
The slogan-"Th e Public School-An American Heritage" has become a ,p art of the institution that now is dedicated in the calendars of
many groups and organization s as "Public Schools Week."
Public Schools Week has won national recognition in the award of
the Freedoms Foundation George Washington gold medal. It has been
adopted by other states as an important activity of Masonry.
Now that 72,000 classroom teachers in California have been definitely joined in the undertaking through the California Teachers Association
there can be no question as to how thoroughly and widespread has been
the adoption of this annual program.
All of the foregoing is a challenge to Masonry. It is only heing realistic to say that the wider the acclaim given this event the more of a
l'esponsibility it becomes to see that Public Schools Week grows in importance with each passing year. That is the price that is paid for success.
The General Committee hopes that this report in itself will help
reveal the scope and the extent of the obligation Pu~lic Schools Week

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

imposes. That all Masters will make the selection of their chairmen for
this event an early obligation. That they be chosen for their proven
capacity to furnish leadership for the diverse groups to be brought into
the program.
Public Schools Week traditionally falls on the week of the fourth
Monday in April, which in 1955 would be April 25th-30th. This information has been transmitted to the school people throughout the state.
A chairman named by the first of the year with the records of past programs available to him should be able to produce an outstanding observance.
Experience has proved that there is definite merit in a campaign
bound in definite time limits. Enthusiasm and interest can be maintained
at an effective pitch only for a certain period, the actual time required
to get the job done. Committeemen and others recognizing the urgency
in getting the job done in time can be stimulated to greater effort. Too
much time frequently develops procrastination in getting things accomplished and proves a definite slowing influence on the entire project.
In closing, the important factor in an effective Public Schools Week
program is the local chairman. An enthusiastic, resourceful chairman
will surround himself with a strong, capable committee. He will acquaint
himself with the procedures of the past that ·have brought worthwhile
results. He will make definite and specific assignments to those working
with him and he will see that these are carried out as planned.
All of this is reflected in the more than 600 reports throughout the
jurisdiction now at ·hand and which the General Committee has reviewed.
To thumb these pages and study the exhibits is to feel a deep sense
of respect for the mobilized strength of Masonry, directed at protecting
and helping the Public School, an institution as American as our flag.

131

PROCLAMATION OF THE GRAND MASTER
M.W. FRANK HARWELL, . }R.

To the Masters, Wardens and Brethren of California:
The struggle of man for freedom and the dignity that adorns freedom is an old story but one that has attained increasing importance in
these present years of uncertainties.
Perhaps never before has man lived in a world of such opposites
where he has to take his stand for freedom as against slavery; integrity
as against degradation; Christian brotherliness as opposed to primitive
brutality.
Sometimes we see as through a glass darkly but the image is becoming more and more clearly revealed. The struggle now is for the minds
of men. Certainly we need strong bodies, spiritual growth and stout
courage. But we also need clean-cut concepts of the way of life of free
men.
Our forefathers in their prophetic wisdom provided the instrumentality for all of this in the public school which today assumes increasing
importance as we look to our youth to take up the burden of the struggle
which we must soon pass on to them.
Masonry can well take pride in its devotion to the principle of free
schools-free from bigotry and falsehood as we prepare our own inspired thirty-fifth annual Public Schools Week.
I. therefore, proclaim and direct:
That all Lodges in California observe Public Schools Week ·April
26th through May 1st, 1954;
That no meetings be held during that week except stated meetings
that fall therein and meetings for Public Schools Week observance;
That this proclamation be read at each stated meeting prior to April
26th, 1954.
Dated at San Francisco January 4th, 1954.

PROCLAMATION BY
THE GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA,
HoN. GooDWIN

J. KNIGHT

"The greatest source of assurance for the future of the American
way of life is our public schools system, wherein our youth become
familiar with the magnificent history of men ancj events which has made
our Republic the most powerful, respected and favored country the world
has known.
·
"The public schools provide the tools of knowledge which will equip
our young men and women to become constructive and responsible citizens in this land of freedom.
·
1

132

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"We have a great responsibility to maintain and advance the ideals
and the standards which our people have come to expect of their public
schools. We must continue the building of new classrooms to accommodate our rapidly growing population. We must keep abreast of new
methods which will be helpful in continuing the vitality of our public
schools. And we must encourage increasing numbers of loyal, able,
qualified men and women to adopt teaching as a lifetime career.
"To assist in bringing these things more forcefully before my fellow
Californians, I, Goodwin J. Knight, Governor of California, hereby proclaim the period of April 26 to May 1, 1954, as PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK in California, and I urge all citizens to take advantage of the
opportunities offered to become more familiar with the programs, goals
and accomplishments of the public schools in their communities."

PROCLAMATION OF ANCIENT AND ACCEPTED
SCOTTISH RITE OF FREEMASONRY
HENRY C. CLAUSEN, 33°
Deputy of the Supreme Council,
In the State of California

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

133

PROCLAMATION OF YORK RITE BODIES
Dear Companions and Sir Knights:
WILLIAM R. MARKLE, Grand High Priest
JOSEPH A. GARRY, Grand Master
JOHN R. MOORE, Grand Commander
For more than a generation the Grand Lodge of Masons in California has sponsored an annual stock-taking of our school system
through the medium of Public Schools Week.
The 35th annual observance of this event by direction of Grand
Master Frank Harwell, Jr., will be held April 26th through May 1, 1954.
Our forefathers wisely foresaw the importance of education to the
successful functioning of a government by law. Nothing else is quite so
American as the Public School.
It has been said that the real battleground of freedom is in the minds
of men. The issue is: shall the minds of men remain free or shall they
become enslaved? So long as youth is adequately prepared through free
public schools for the responsibility of citizenship, there can 1be no question of the outcome.
The York Rite Bodies have always cooperated with the Grand
Lodge in its sponsorship of this worthy event. Therefore, we ask the
High Priests, the Illustrious Masters and the Commanders to urge visits
to one or more local schools during the Public Schools Week Period.

To All Officers, California Jurisdiction:
RE: 35TH ANNUAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
The 35th Annual Public Schools Week will be held April 26 through
May 1, 1954.
For the past thirty-five years, Public Schools Week has been a
means in California of calling attention annually to the functions and
needs of our public schools. The main goal is to get the public to visit
the schools and see what is going on. We are interested in making sure,
among other things, that the American public schools remain sanctuaries
of religious freedom-required by law to ·be free from sectarian control
-where no person or church may dictate what the children must believe
in matters of religion. The subject of church selection and dogma is left
to the ·home, the individual, the church, and the Sunday School. with
free choice from the diversity of religious creeds and practices guaranteed and given to us under our constitutional form of government.
Accordingly, is it my request that we support the observance this
year and plan to ·participate. It is a Masonic-sponsored event. It is hoped
that, among other things, our Scottish Rite members will endeavor to
visit one or more schools in their communities during the week.
Please publicize the above through such outlets as may be available
to you.
·

PROCLAMATION OF
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ORDER OF SCIOTS
VICTOR N. CHRISTOPHER, Pharaoh
PHARAOH'S EDICT
WHEREAS, the week commencing MONDAY, APRIL 26th,
1954 ending MAY 1, 1954, being the week set aside by the Grand
Lodge F. & A. M. of California, and designated as thirty-fifth Annual
Observance of "PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK,"
THEREFORE, by virtue of the power vested in me as Pharaoh of
the Supreme Pyramid, Ancient Egyptian Order of Sciots, I do hereby
decree that there be no meetings, Ceremonials, Entertainments or Functions of any nature held under the auspices of any Pyramid during the
week commencing APRIL 26th, 1954 to MAY 1, 1954, and that every
Sciot co-operate with his Masonic Lodge by personal attendance at any
meeting arranged ·by the Committee on Public Schools Week. This is
in accordance with the principles, aims and objects of the Ancient Egyptian Order of Sciots, to further the interests of every child, to assure
them of a sane, sound education, fitting the individual for a life of self
ttspecting, self supporting, law abiding citizenship. Officers elective and
appointive are asked to carry out the ·provisions of the above edict, and

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

co-operate with their local Masonic Public School Committee, or if none
exists in their community, arrange for the proper observance of Public
Schools Week by their Pyramid.
It is further requested that the above edict be read at every meeting
of your Pyramid held prior to APRIL 26th, 1954, and during the interim,
posted in your Pyramid meeting place.

CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE PASSES RESOLUTION

134

STATEMENT OF THE CHIEF JUSTICE
HoN. EARL WARREN
"I congratulate the committee in charge of Public Schools Week
this year. It is an important week, and every citizen of our State would
do well to participate, at least to the extent of visiting a puiblic school
during that period.
"There is no instrumentality of the community that so clearly represents our hopes and our opportunities."
STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR OF HAWAII
HON. SAMUEL WILDER KING
{Note: the dates for the observance of Public Schools Week were
earlier in 1954 than those in California.)
It is a pleasure for me to express my support of the observance of
Public Schools Week, starting February 22.
Our public schools occupy an important place in the history of our
country. They have undergone numerous trials and tribulations, and
have been under attack on occasions. Having withstood these difficulties,
the public schools stand today as one of the greatest bulwarks of our
free society.
I commend the Masonic Order for its continued sponsorship of
Public Schools Week. The program which the Masonic Order is arranging on the evening of February 25, 1954, at Lincoln Elementary School
will help to promote greater understanding of our public schools.
It is incumbent upon citizens of every community to maintain their
active interest in public education, in order that the public schools can
be of even greater value to our society. The annual observance of
Public Schools Week affords the opportunity each year for our citizens
to acquaint themselves with the principles upon which the public schools
system is founded.
As an expression of my own interest on behalf of free public education, I requested the Commissioners of Public Instruction to abolish the
kindergarten fees of $3.00 a month for each pre-school child, and to
eliminate the book rental charges.
As of December 1, 1953, the Commissioners of Public Instruction
have abolished the kindergarten fees and are now making plans to
eliminate book rentals at the start of the next school year.

135

The California Legislature continued its practice of recognizing
Public Schools Week. Through the efforts of Senator Thompson this
action was initiated in the Senate in the form of Resolution 13 on March
11. 1954.
WHEREAS, The public schools have ·b een an accepted part of our life
ever since the adoption of a constitutional form of government of California; and
WHEREAS, Our colonial forefathers conveived freedom and education to be interdependent, the one on the other, and established free
schools as a principle of our national life; and
WHEREAS, The great struggle between the free world and the slave
world of the totalitarians is a struggle for men's minds: and
WHEREAS, Our public schools have been time-tested as a great bul- _
wark of our defense against physical and mental enslavement; and
WHEREAS, It has been the custom in California for many years to
invite the public periodically to examine and inspect our schools and to
become familiar with the work being done in the classrooms to prepare
our youth for citizenship responsibilities; and
WHEREAS, The week of April 26, 1954, will mark the thirty-fifth
annual observance of Public Schools Week when countless committees
of citizens in local communities will join with their school authorities in
the presentation of special programs and demonstrations of classroom
work at this tii:p.e; now, therefore, 'b e it
Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assembly
thereof concurring, That this Legislature does hereby endorse the purposes of Public Schools Week and urges our citizens to visit one or
more schools during the week starting April 26th in order that they may
better understand the work of our schools and our function in preparing
our youth for useful citizenship.
Although a partial report of the Committee on Grievances was made
Monday afternoon, the entire report of that Committee is being recorded
in Wednesday's business, for convenience of reference.
At the invitation of the Grand Master, Most Worshipful Hugh Reid,
Grand Master of Virginia, delivered a very interesting address which
was deeply appreciated by the brethren. Grand Master Reid extended
an invitation to participate with that Grand Lodge in celebrating the
200th anniversary of the birth of John Marshall.
At 4:30 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A. M. Tuesday.

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

to light. These have been filed for future action but a great deal more
needs to be done which will involve considerable follow-up work over a
period of time-if indeed the work can ever be completely concluded.
Such mistakes as have occurred were the result of honest error and entirely unintenional. Most of the omissions concerned material undisclosed at the time of publication and which came to our attention after
the books were puiblished. Because of the great volume of historical
matter which was assembled by the committee, some of it had to be omitted in the interest of consolidation for economy's sake alone but which
rightfully belonged in the printed history. There remains a considerable
amount of this unused material in the files which could be worked up and
published in pamphlet form from time to time.
The publication of the books seems to have awakened what was a
latent and ·possibly an apathetic interest in the history of our craft in
California. So much so, that a number of incidents of historical value
have come to our attention which your committee has begun to pursue
and which, when fully investigated will be written up and filed for future
use. One of these was the ill-fated and tragic Henry Crabb expedition
into the State of Sonora, in Mexico, in 1857. The purpose of the expedition was to colonize Sonora and to exert pressure for an honest and
democratic government of the department. The leader, Henry· Crabb,
was a Mason, as were many of the 78 members of his party. An undetermined number of them were members of this jurisdiction including
the first Worshipful Master of Martinez Lodge No. 41-Brother Ro bert
N. Wood, and the Marshal of San Jose Lodge No. 10, Brother F. S.
McKinney. All 78, including these and the leader, Henry Crabb, were
forced -to surrender to the Mexican Army at Caborca, Sonora, Mexico,
and were tied up, marched out in batches facing an adobe wall outside
the local cemetery, and shot to death in the back. Their bodies lay unburied where they fell for days to be eaten by dogs, hogs, and such wild
animals as were attracted and the ·bones finally buried in a common grave
without benefit of ceremony. Your committee learned of this incident
only as the books were going to press and touched upon it lightly in the
chapter on Martinez Lodge. There was insufficient time to secure all of
the details and in fact those given here came to light only this past May.
There still remains much more to be done to assemble the complete story.
Past Grand Master James Black Gist passed away on April 25, 1954
and was buried on April 28, 1954 in Space #1. Lot 1037, Whispering
Pines Section, Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale, California.
Past Grand Master, William B. Ogden, passed away on Septem!ber
1954 and was buried on September 15, 1954 in grave "H" plot 164 Olive
section 10, Glen Haven Memorial Park, San Fernando, California.
At its spring meeting, referred to above, the committee came to the
tollowing conclusions as a program of work for the committee:
1. That the committee would pursue stories of persons, incidents, or
Lodges, determine the facts and write up such stories for future use.

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1954
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A. M., the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of
the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday, October 11th, were
read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC 1-llSTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report:
During the past year the committee has engaged in a number of
projects concerning the contemporary history of this jurisdiction. In
addition to considerable correspondence between the members of the
committee and your chairman, a number of intra-committee conferences
have been held, centennial celebrations attended, and a general meeting
of the entire committee during the spring which was attended by all
members with the exception of one who lives in the southern part of
the state. After careful and considered discussion, involving future plans
and activities of the committee, a course of action was unanimously
adopted, to be made a part of this report, for recommendation to and
consideration by this Grand Lodge.
An effective history committee, if it he more than a mere name, should
have the responsibility of collecting and assembling in its proper order
and form information regarding events and personalities which transpire from day to day. Such information-gathering requires the services
of a number of trained, sincere, diligent, ardent and dependable workers.
preferably spread over the jurisdiction in order to secure adequate ~ov­
erage. Information so gathered should be catalogued and filed against
the day when it can 1b e made available for editing and publishing as a
part of the history of this Grand Jurisdiction. This your committee has
been attempting to do and since the publication in 1950 of "100 Years
of Freemasonry in California," considerable material has already found
.
its way into the files.
Since 1950, when this jurisdiction celebrated its 1OOth anniversary,
a number of centennial celebrations have been held. As the years pass
from now on to the end of time there will continue to be yearly centennial celebrations among the constituent Lodges. Your history committee
has been of considerable assistance to most of these Lodges in preparing
the historical data for their celebrations and of some small measure of
service to the Grand Officers also along these same lines. Demands now
on file as well as planned future celebrations indicate the need for a
continuing program of service to these Lodges which your committee
.
plans to undertake.
· As in the publication of every history, a number of errors and important omissions in "100 Years of Freemasonry in California" have come

137

1

139

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

138

ld continue to offer its
2. Tha t the . committee, as in the past, wou
on of specific material
arati
prep
S(rvices .to the constituent Lodges in the
ns and also to assist,
ratio
celeb
al
enni
for specific pur~ses such as cent
material for the Lodges.
whe n requeste~. m the ~reparati~n of such
ested to do so, for the
.3. To prov ide specific material, whe n requ
ection with centennial cele..
various Gran d Officers for their use in conn
brations.
the correction of error s
i. To continue research and investigation in
on as and whe n such alleged
in the published histories of this jurisdicti
erro rs are 'b roug ht to our atten tion.
occur in connection
5. To record the impo rtant statistics, as they
·
'
es.
with the formation of new Lodg
mination to the inter..
6. To make available for publication and disse interesting program
for
e
mak
ld
wou
ested Lodges such material as
pres enta tions at Lodge meetings.
Cali forn ia historical
To furnish speakers at Lodge meetings on wh~ called upon
ittee
comm
subJects from among the memibers of the
to do so.
tain a perm anen t file
8. To catal og all materials collected and main
publ ish an up-t o-da te
o~ such materials so that this Gran d Lodge may
judg men t it decided to do
histo ry ever y 25 year s, if, in its wisdom and
ugh, comprehensive and
so, it ;~in~ our firm belief that more thoro a day to day basis as
ted on
auth entic histo ry wou ld resu lt if accumula
the men making it are dead
after
s
it happ ens rathe r than if collected year
.
otten
forg
ts
and gone and the even
and to make for more
In orde r to unde rtake the proposed program
ittee resp ectfu lly offers the
complete and bette r planning, your comm
following resolution:
know n as the 'Special
"R~SOLVED, t~at t~e sp~cial committee
is one of the regu lar
after
here
Comn:i1ttee on ~asonic Hi~tory, be and
end that Section 70
this
to
e,
Lodg
d
stan ding committees of this Gran
'on Hist ory' after the word s
?f the regulations be ame nded by addi ng
Gran d Lodg e Wee k Activities'."
committee on Mas onic
. In moving the adoption of.this report, your $250.00 to finance the
of
tion
Hist ory respectfully requests the appr opria
Mas onic year .
work of the committee durin g the ensuing
Respectfully submitted,

?·

LEON 0. WHI TSEL L
CHA RLES R. INGR AM
0. WOH LGE MUT H
ART HUR H. TRIG GS
BRAINARD
CAR L
FRAN K EVER ETI'

J.

w.

Refe rred to Committees on Finance, Juris prud
Gen eral Purposes.

ence and .on Polic y and

d Mas ter of Oreg on, at
Mos t Wor ship ful Roy W. M<:Neal, Gran
Gran d Lodge a scllolarly
to
the invitation of the Gran d Mas ter, delivered
d their appreciation for
ence
evid
ren
addr ess on Americanism. The breth
the subj ect matt er and the delivery of it.

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON CHA RTE

RS

fornia: .
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Grand Lodge of Cali
submits the following reYou r Committee on Cha rters respectfully
port and recommendations:
d Secr etary 's repo rt are
The Gran d Mas ter's message and the Gran
has been active . during the
evidence that your Committee on Cha rters
rion the problem of oversize
past twelve months. If this year is any crite
being so definitely awa y
trend
lodges should soon take care of itself. the
good .We feel stron gthe
to
all
is
from the large metropolitan lodge. This
definite part of a <:ommunity.
ly that a Masonic Lodge is or should be a
expr esse d policy of some of
You r Committee was impressed with the
and friendly," "an inhe rent
the lodg es now unde r dispensation, "small
future, the fireside lodg e."
inter est in community affairs," "bui ld for the
help but make for bette r
but
Thes e principles whe n carri ed on cann ot
urag eme nt given by the
enco
The
Mas onry and a bette r community.
of new lodges is showing
Gran d Mas ter and Inspectors to the formation
has been effective in obta inresults, and we find that plur al membership
groups. We would, also,
ing experienced leadership for man y of these
in temple associations.
certa
like to comment on the assistance rend ered by
facilities rent free,
their
of
use
In some cases they have even allowed the
tremendous assis t
a
been
has
This
tion.
while the lodge is unde r dispensa
to these new lodges.
compiled information
At the requ est of the Gran d Mas ter we have
Of these, three were conon seventeen lodges now unde r dispensation.
d Lodge, and two have not
tinued at the last Communication of Gran
iles information for the
yet been instituted. As your Committee comp
to get an idea of wha t
pt
Gran d Mas ter prio r to dispensation, we attem year , how man y cand ifirst
its
g
the group expects to ac<:omplish durin
they will accept, wha t their
date s they will raise, how man y affiliates
will incur. Whe n the lodge
income will be, and wha t expenses they
Committee in Octo ber, it is
submits its records .and appe ars before the
zations. Of the fifteen lodg es
interesting to compare anticipation and reali
rt that their realizations
repo
unde r consideration, we are happ y to
ipations. Some of the
antic
their
of
aver age bette r than fifty per cent
are anticipating more suitlodges have inad equa te meeting places, :but
of the groups had near the
able quar ters in the near future. Mos t
for dispensation: and may
maximum number of nam es on their petition
we say that fifty is none too many.
who are head ing thes e
Gran d Lodge can be prou d of the breth ren
new lodges.

Ml

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

They must be real Masons to put in the time and effort required in
starting a new lodge, and we feel that the interests of Masonry are
advanced in having such men active in its service.
The number being so large we feel that it would take too much of
Grand Lodge time and too many printed pages in the proceedings to
give you a briefing on each lode separately, though there is much of
interest that could be said. Therefore, we report to you that all lodges
applying for Charters have submitted their records in accordance with
our laws. They have been examined by your Committee, corrections
have or will be made wherever necessary: there are no flagrant errors
or omissions.

to prove itself capable of successfully carrying on a well rounded and
complete Masonic program. We therefore recommend that .Opportunity
Lodge, U. D. be continued under dispensation for the ensuing Masonic
year.

140

c.

GLENN
HOLMES
WM. R. HERVEY, JR.
WM. J. WILLIAMS
HAROLD MEYER
RALPH
COLLINS
CYRILL. WEEKS
KENNETH R. FORD
BROWN ZARLEY
LEWIS H. JOHNSON

w.

We therefore recommend that Charters be issued as follows:
Centennial Lodge No. 729 in the County of Los Angeles
Polaris Lodge No. 730 in the County of Sacramento
Two Rivers Lodge No. 731 in the County of Los Angeles
San Juan Lodge No. 732 in the County of Sacramento
Golden Empire Lodge No. 733 in the County of Sacramento
Kit Carson Lodge No. 734 in the County of Sacramento
Oasis of Mara Lodge No. 735 in the County of San Bernardino
Lemon Grove Lodge No. 736 in the County of San Diego
Hillsborough Lodge No. 737 in the County of San Mateo
Arvin Lodge No. 738 in the County of Kem
La Canada Lodge No. 739 in the County of Los Angeles
The following lodges do not feel that they have worked together a
sufficient length of time to justify their requesting a Charter, and your
Committee very heartily commends them for their requesting that they
be continued under dispensation.
'

We therefore recommend that the following lodges be continued
under dispensation:
Tyre Lodge, U. D.
Morningside Park Lodge, U. D.
Oakwood Lodge, U. D.
Opportunity Lodge, U. D. has requested a Charter. This lodge,
instituted July 20th, 1954 is a daylight lodge meeting in Hawthorne,
California. The membership consists of craftsmen employed in the aircraft industry in the community, who work the so-called "swing shift."
While the idea of a daylight lodge is not new, we feel that because of
this unusual situation the lodge should be given more than two months

Adopted.

REPORT ON FOREST LODGE NO. 66
At last year's Communication, your Committee on Charters had referred to it that portion of Grand Master Warren's message concerning
Forest Lodge No. 66 at Allegheny which is in the northern part of the
Mother Lode country. This dealt with the failure of Forest Lodge to
comply with certain provisions of our law. On the recommendation of
your Committe~. Grand Lodge granted a year's grace in order that the
promised efforts at revitalization or consolidation might be attempted.
While the Lodge has not complied with all legal requirements, we
are pleased to report that an earnest and sincere endeavor has been made
to perpetuate the existence of this 100 year old Lodge. The meeting day
has been changed to .Saturday and we are informed that five meetings
have been held with a quorum present, not an easy task where only
three members live in this isolated and remote mining camp.
Your Committee strongly urges the officers and members of Forest
Lodge to effect a consolidation with one of the other Lodges in the high
Sierras to the end that the century-old continuity of this Lodge will not
be ended, and that Masonry may be strengthened in this area of small
and historic Lodges. Their inspector, Worshipful Edward Farley, concurs in this recommendation.
We therefore recommend that Forest Lodge No. 66 be granted a
further period not to exceed one year in order that this Lodge may ensure its continuance through fulfilling all the requirements of the law, or
effecting a consolidation with another Lodge, or surrendering its Charter.
Adopted.

142

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON FINA NCE

rnia:
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e of Califo
you as Chai rman of
e
befor
ar
appe
I
It is with mixed feelings that
at the close of the
your Finan ce Committee. Mixed, because it was
. Arth ur S. Crite s remorning session on Octo ber 15, 1948 that P.G.M
chairmanship of the
vealed to Gran d Lodge that he was giving up the
P.G.M . Clau de H.
inted
Committee on Finance. At that time I appo
ed to that position.
succe
to
ied
Morrison, the man I thoug ht best qualif
Clau de's friend~
er
Broth
of
Many
right.
Time has proven that I was
Communication and
rejoiced with him at the close of the last Annu al
as he enter ed into
wished him a happ y trip East and a long retirement
to his rewa rd
called
be
to
his retirement with genuine anticipation only
record of
The
1953.
2,
mber
Nove
as he was on his retur n trip home on
will be
ng
passi
his
hy
left
void
the
and
his Masonic accomplishments
y
te eulog will be
felt by this Gran d Lodge for a long time. Appr opria
on Wed nesda y.
given Brother Morrison at our Memorial Service

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
tion the policy of
After the close of the 1953 Annu al Communica
out of the reaign
camp
paying expenses of the proposed fund raising
er, the Assis tMast
d
Gran
the
serves of Gran d Lodge was determined by
Committee.
ce
Finan
the
of
man
Chair
ant Gran d Treas urer and the then
31, 1954
July
d
ende
years
fiscal
the
of
Tota l expenditures to the close
s is
diture
aign expen
were $41,795.26. Estim ate covering additional camp
We
ith.
herew
itted
being provided for in the curre nt budg et being subm
its adoption:
mend
recom
and
tion
resolu
ing
follow
the
offer
therefore
er in au"RES OLV ED, that the action of the Gran d Mast
of fund raisthorizing an expenditure of $41,795.26 for purposes
Committee for
ing by the Calif ornia Masonic Memorial Temp le
the reserves
of
out
aid
p
.
be
to
1954,
the fiscal year ende d July 31,
appro ved."
and
d
ratifie
y
hereb
of Gran d Lodge be and the same is
TEHACHAPI AND MARICOPA BUILDINGS
Coun ty, CaliTeha chap i and Mari copa Masonic Temp les in Kern
1952. Since
22,
July
of
e
quak
earth
the
of
fornia both were casualties
the rehabilitation of
then much time, effort and money have gone into
has evidenced a willthese two Temples. From the outset Gran d Lodge
ns. Durin g the
ciatio
Asso
ingness to give financial aid to both Temp le
adop ted:
was
tion
resolu
last Annual Communication the following
the Chai r"RES OLV ED: That the incoming Gran d Mast er,
the Com of
rman
Chai
man of the Committee on Finan ce and the
assistsuch
d
exten
to
rized
mittee on Lodge Financing are autho
their
in
es
Lodg
copa
Mari
and
i
ance to the breth ren of Teha chap

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

143

decided upon ."
buil~ing proje cts as it may in their judgm ent be
therefore, offer
Dunn~ the year. such assistance was grant ed. We,
tion:
adop
the following resolution and move its
er, the
''.RE SOLV ED, that the action of the Gran d Mast
of the
man
Chami;ian of the Committee on Finan ce and the Chair s by this
ction
instru
to
Committee on Lodge Financing, pursu ant
in extending
Gran~ Lodge at the 1953 Annu al Communication,
to Mari copa
00
$10,0
of
t
exten
the
to
further financial assistance
le Assoc iaTemp
i
chap
Teha
to
0
$5,00
and
n
Building Associatio
tion, be, and the same is appro ved."
SoTOYOME LoDGE No. 123
ittee spent
Du~ing. the ye~r 1951 members of this Finance Comm
al commitspeci
and a
some time in the City of Heald sburg with Qfficers
be made ·
could
tions
tee for the Lodge in order that prope r reco~menda
finanthe
to
on
soluti
final
t~ the Gran d Lodge to work out the ultimate,
Alice
wife,
his
and
Bush
Ely
er
Broth
cial arrangements between the late
the
made
Bush
Mrs.
of
death
The
123.
No.
e
Bush, and Sotoyome Lodg
al
Annu
1951
e at the
problem more acute, and as a result the Gran d Lodg
:
Communication adop ted the following resolution
Gran d
"RES OLV ED: That the advances made by this
ber
Octo
of
as
due
ce
balan
Lodge to Sotoyome Lodge No. 123,
of)
um
minim
(a
of
rate
the
at
d
1st, $4,850.00, shall be repai
paym ents will
$75.00 per month, it being understood that large r
breth ren of
be accepted when , as and if in the judgment of the
."
made
be
Sotoyome'Lodge large r .payments can
Chai rman of
On July 14, 1954 the Gran d Secre tary advised your
paid in full
had
23
J
No.
e
Lodg
the Fi~a~ce Committ~e that Sotoyome
requested
ally
offici
and
e
Lodg
d
Gran
the princ.ipal sum which it owed
your Finance Com that the interest be forgiven. It is the judgment of
123 should be committee that the breth ren of Sotoyome Lodge No.
em. As a result
probl
ult
mended for this effort in solving a very diffic
ittee there Comm
Your
meet.
to
they have a fine Maso nic Home in which
payments
st
intere
any
e
waiv
e
Lodg
d
fore recommends that this Gran
:
ution
resol
ing
follow
the
of
and requests approval
e No. 123,
. "WH ERE AS, at the request of Sotoyome Lodg 123 on a
No.
e
this Gran d Lodge did advance to Sotoyome Lodg
l obligation
monthly basis $150.00 to aid in fulfilling a contractua
and the
Bush
Alice
wife
his
,
between the late Brother Ely Bush
and
Lodge;
this Gran d
"WH ERE AS, the Lodge has now repaid in full to
st;
intere
ut
witho
ced,
advan
so
Lodge all principal payments
this
that
ED,
"NO W, THE REF ORE . BE IT RES OLV
adofore
heret
nts
amou
said
Gran d Lodge waive any interest on

144

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

vanced and relieves Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 of any further
obligation under said financial arrangement."

to the various members of the committee making it possible for us to
observe the will and pleasure of the Grand Master this morning.
Even though your committee pleads guilty to the charge that the
totals under the Budget column is somewhat less than the totals under
the requested column, we feel the Budget we submit herewith is a fair
one. Having the advance information made it possible for your committee to do a better job for Grand Lodge. Each committee member was
assigned as a liaison member of this committee and the several committees of Grand Lodge. Where necessary the liaison member of the Finance Committee was able to consult with the entire committee or board
regarding detail items making up the total request. resulting in a better
and more sympathetic understanding of the financial problems confronting the several committees of Grand Lodge. We think the Grand Master's suggestion a good one and recommend its continuance.
The estimated budget follows:

STEVENSON MONUMENT
The resolution presented to this Grand Lodge by California Lodge
No. 1 requesting the sum not to exceed $350.00 for the purpose of paying the cost of a fitting monument over the grave of our first Grand
Master, Jonathan Drake Stevenson, was referred to this committee for
consideration.
The Committee on Finance is sympathetic with the request of California Lodge No. 1. and is including in its recommended appropriation.
the sum of $350.00 to be used as requested.
There has been referred to this Committee. that portion of the Grand
Master's message wherein he recommended that Past Grand Master
Leslie E. Wood be sent to the Hawaiian Islands. He further reported
that in view of some of the problems involving the Lodges in the Islands.
as Chairman of the Policy and General Purposes Committee, it was the
Grand Master's considered judgment that much good could be gained
by extending this courtesy to Past Grand Master Leslie E. Wood. he
having been one of the Grand Masters who was deprived of this pleasure as a result of the Second World War.
Your Committee on Finance feels that to a certain extent this is a
matter to be determined by the incoming Grand Master and that if in
his judgment such a trip is desirable or essential a sufficient amount
should be appropriated from the surplus to cover the cost thereof.
MASONIC HOMES
A review of the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes followed by consultation with them as to the needs for the coming year
indicate that a renewal of the per capita tax of 50c together with other
anticipated income will be sufficient to properly maintain our Homes
for the ensuing year. We. therefore. propose the following resolution
and move its adoption:
RESOLVED: That the sum of 50c per capita be levied for
the fiscal year. 1955-56. the proceeds to be paid to the Trustees
of the Masonic Homes.
BUDGET
In order to comply with the order of the Grand Master that this
report be given on Tuesday morning rather than later in the week as
had been the practice in the past several years, usually resulting in a
jammed calendar toward the close of Grand Lodge, an effort was made
to have all requests for appropriations in the hands of the committee
not later than August 1. 1954. While we were not successful in all instances sufficient information was made available far enough in advance

145

ADMINISTRATIVE & OFFICE
Salaries ..•............•..•.................~---····························-················$ 40,900.00
Rent ···················-······························································-·······
7,800.00
Audit ..........................................................................................
1,500.00
Grand Treasurer ........................................................................
1,000.00
Postage & Express........................................................:.:... _____
2,500.00
Telephone & Telegraph............................................................
1.500.00
Bonds, Supplies, Sundry......................·-····················-···-········
1,700.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes .............................. · 1,500.00
Investment Counsel ..................................................................
900.00
TOTAL ·----·····--··············································-····-··-·-··-·-$ 58,800.00
GENERAL EXPENSE
Annual Communication ............................................................$ 15,000.00
Conferences ............................................................................. .
4,500.00
Grand Lodge Officers Travel Expense....................................
5,000.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler............,...............................
400.00
Grand Master Travel ...............................................................
7,000.00
Grand Master Misc...................................................................
1,750.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges........................................._.....
4,000.00
Lodge Insurance ....................................................................... .
5,000.00
Portrait, Grand Master..............................................................
925.00
Pay of Members........................................................................ 30,000.00
Printing ........................................................................................ 20,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer ................................................................... .
600.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery..................................... .
1,500.00
Travel Expense .................................................................. 11.500.00
Relief Fund, Grand Master............................................... - ....•
750.00

147

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

900.00
Retirement Pay ··················································-·······-·············
2,500.00
·····-·······
·-········--·
Veteran Buttons ······················-··················
2,000.00
Miscellaneous .•.•....................•..•.......•......•...•.....•....•....••.•..........
00
13,325.
TOTAL ···---···· ·-······..·-··-··-~----·--··-···-···$1

the revenue received by $26,111.56. The main causes were aid to
Tehacha pi and Maricop a Lodges authorized by Grand Lodge on account
of the 1952 earthqua ke and the campaign expense for the California
Masonic Memorial Temple.
Even with the 1953-54 deficit, my brethren, your Committee is
pleased to submit this report without recommending an increase in the
Per Capita Tax. To the contrary, ·because of the current status of this
Grand Lodge's account with the George Washing ton National Memorial we recommend a reduction in your Per Capita in the amount of 15c
per member.
we, therefore, propose the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESOL VED, That a Per Capita Tax aggregating $2.75 be levied
for the ensuing year for the purpose o'f paying expenses of Grand Lodge
in the following amounts:
Constitution per capita for California Masonic Memorial Temple.... $1.00
·-······················· .50
Masonic Homes ···························-··············-···········Constitution per capita for Grand Lodge.......-................................... .50
Additional per capita for Grand I..odge..•••.••••. _................................. .75

146

APPROPRIATIONS
·---···· ·-·····$ . 4,500.00
Activities Committee ..-··--· -..
1,250.00
Board of Control·-····-·········-·······-··-·······--······--··-··-··-···
1,000.00
Charters Committee ···········-·······························-·····•··············
1,400.00
•Columbia Temple ......................................................................
500.00
'Constitution Month ..................................................................
8,000.00
.
...........
..............
..............
Correspondence Committee ..............
500.00
··········-·······•·
DeMola y Committee ·····························-········-··..............
0
.
15,450.0
.......
..............
..............
..............
Bureaus
Employment
0
10,000.0
···········-··-··-·····
Endowment Board ················-·················-·····
250.00
History Committee .................•..............•.........•.•...•.....••......•....•
100.00
···
Information Committee ·······--··-··················-········-····-······
1,600.00
..
.......
..............
..............
Lodge Financing Committee...............
32,500.00
Memorial Temple ···········-···············-·····-·································
4,000.00
··
Public School Week..~.................---······-· ·······-···· ···--·······...
3,500.00
Publications Committee .•......................•••..............................
100.00
·····
··············
··············
Sojourners ·Committee ·······················-····
0
38,000.0
·--··University Clubhouses ······························-·-·~········-··-·
350.00
....•.....
.............•
...............
Stevenson's 'Grave ...•.........•...............

·-····-+·• ....

1

TOTAL -----···- ····-··-·· ·-··-···-· --·-·-··· .:..·-·-·· ---$123 ,000.00
RECAPULATION
Administrative and Ofllce.....- ................................- ............$ 58,800.00
General Expense ·····-··········-··································-········--··· 113,325.00
Appropriations ··········-··························································-·· 123,000.00
GRAND TOTAL ····--..- -...... • :. ····- ·--··-··- ····$29 5.125. 00
ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
1954-1955
Dues from Lodges.......................................- ...$298,636.75
$326,839.07
Income from Investments................................ 28,202.32
A·ppropriations and Budgeted Items................•......•................ 295,125.00
ESTIMATED SURPLUS ...................................:....•- ......... ~......$ 31,714.07
Your Finance Committee is happy to present this report which shows
an estimated surplus of $31,714.07. Last year the record shows an estimated surplus of only $3,267.00. Actually the expenses and appropri ations of Grand Lodge for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1954 exceeded

$2.75
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SJBMS
F. WESLEY DAVIS
PHIL N. MYERS
BEN c. CoRLETT
PAUL F. BALCK
KLINE J. W1LLiAMS
KERMIT A. JACOBSON
By separate action on each, the several portions of the report were
adopted. The entire report was then adopted as a whole.

PER CAPIT A PAYM ENT U.D. LODGES

There has been referred to the Committee on Finance the request
of the Grand Secretary that certain U. D. Lodges, because of the short
interval of time occurring between their institution and the close of the
&seal year, be relieved of payment covering 1954 per capita tax. This
committee is sympathetic to the request as emphasized by the Grand
Secretary and, therefore, recommends that the 1954 per capita tax be
waived for the following Lodges:
Golden Empire Lodge .......... U. D.
Kit Carson Lodge ..........•.•... U. D.
Oasis of Mam Lodge............U. D.

148

149

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Lemon Grove Lodge ............U. D.
Hillsborough Lodge ............ U. D.
Arvin Lodge ..- ...................U. D.
Opportunity Lodge .............. U. D.
La Canada Lodge ................ U. D.

ads in papers without circulation except among a limited number of the
advertisers themselves. They could hardly have been expected to fold
up because we passed an ordinance.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON PUBLICATI ONS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
As an introduction to the presentation of the activities, recommenda..
tions and conclusions of this committee, we believe that it will be proper
for Grand Lodge to know certain facts concerning the committee.
Every member of the committee sat in two of the four meetings of
the committee held during the year. Four members were present at all
meetings. All of the members of the committee have been continually
informed of the work being done by the other members. Each action of
the committee, each recommendation of the committee and each conclusion reached and presented to you here has been discussed and debated
within the committee and has been unanimously adopted. This has been
a working committee in the real sense of the word and, as Chairman, I
wish to thank the members who have devoted their time, energies and
talents to a difficult task. I wish also to express to our Grand Master
the sincere appreciation of each member of the committee for the many
hours of consultation which he, busy as he is, gave to us and to this
problem. His devotion to duty marks him as a Master among our
Grand Masters.
This committee was entrusted by our Grand Master with a solemn
responsibility to this Grand Lodge. Your predecessor Masters and
Wardens, as the representatives of the Lodges of this jurisdiction, wrote
into the law ( let it be noted, by a five-sixths vote) a paragraph to section
127 of our Ordinances which, in substance, said to all Masons in California "you may not advertise your business or profession in any
publication or medium purporting to be Masonic in name or characternor may you solicit advertising in such a publication without the express
sanction of this Grand Lodge."
This legislation was enacted for two purposes: First, to remove the
stain of commercialism from Masonic activity, and second, to protect
the gullible and unwary from the depredation of various racketeering
publishers who were using the name, emblems and symbols of Masonry
as bait to fleece the public and members of the Craft as well.
Whether non-sanctioned publications still existed was not deAnitely
known at the start of this year. Strong suspicion remained that they
would not give up the rich repast which they had enjoyed. They had
fed upon the body of Masonry and also upon its friends among the
public at large. They had used the name of Masonry to obtain donated

PUBLICATIONS OPERATING UNDER SANCTION

Certain publications had, however, been among those which various
Grand Masters had granted sanction for Masons to solicit advertising
for or place advertising in and as of the appointment of this committee,
the following sanctions were outstanding:
1. Masonic News, Huntington Park, California, Marguerite Pray,
Publisher-Ro bert Mero, member Bell Lodge No. 483, advertising manager.
2. Seaboard Mason and Eastern Star, Long Beach, California,
Charles G. de Coudries, member Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389,
publisher.
3. Square and Compass, Lomita, California, Gordon Chambers,
member Lomita Lodge No. 644, publisher.
4. Southern California Masonic Journal, Ontario, California, Henry
C. Engler, member Ontario Lodge No. 301, publisher.
5. Masonic Herald, Anaheim, California, Leo J. Friis, member Anaheim Lodge No. 207, publisher.
6. Southern California Shriner and Bay Area Mason, Santa Monica,
California, Calvin Carey, publisher, member Southern California
Lodge No. 278.
7. Kern County Masonry and Eastern Star, Bakersfield, California,
Mike S. Oldershaw, member Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, publisher.
8. San Luis Obispo County Mason and Eastern Star, San Luis
Obispo, Marcus L. Waltz, member San Simeon Lodge No. 196,
· publisher.
9. Channel Counties Mason and Eastern Star, Santa Barbara, California, Cecil L. Loomis, member Magnolia Lodge No. 242, publisher.
10. The Shriner, Santa Barbara, California, Cecil L. Loomis, member
Magnolia Lodge No. 242, prospective publisher. (This sanction
had ·been granted but no issues had been printed.)
The publications operating under sanction had applied thru previous
· committees and sanction had been granted Masons to advertise therein,
based upon certain statements and promises made by the publishers as
to the ethical conduct of their business, both as to the solicitation of
advertising and as to their relationship with Lodges whose Trestle
Boards they might carry.
Among other promises entered into within the previous year, were
the following:

150

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1. That no use would be made of any Lodge roster or official mem#
bership list.
2. That no money would be solicited or received from any Lodge for
subscriptions or otherwise and that no representation would be made to
Masons that it was their duty to subscribe or advertise.
3. That advertising would not be solicited by anyone not a member
of a California lodge and never upon a commission basis or by telephone.
4. That no representation would be made that the publication was
representative of Grand Lodge or of any constituent Lodge or that any
benefit, financial or otherwise, would accrue to Masonry in general,
directly or indirectly, thru its advertising revenues.
PHASES OF PROBLEM

The publication problem may, therefore, be divided into two phases,
and questions arise as to each1. As to so#called sanctioned publications: Are the agreements
entered into by the .publishers being honored?
2. As to so--called non#sanctioned publications: Do they still exist?
How do they operate? Who operates them? Are they operated by
Masons? If operated by non-Masons, how best can we fulfill our
responsibility as a Grand Lodge in stamping out this evil?
These were the questions propounded to the committee by your
Grand Master. The committee was composed of members of Grand
Lodge who had not ·been involved in any previous disscussions of the
problem and who were not associated with any local situation which
might tend to color their viewpoint. The committee was, therefore, free
from any preconceived ideas as to either the duties of the committee or
the solution of the problem. Most of the members had not seen more
than one or two of the publications in question.
Your Grand Master established two fundamental ground rules:
( 1 ) GET THE FACTS, and
( 2) LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY MAY.
SURVEY OF ADVERTISERS IN SANCTION ED PUBLICATI ONS

To this end, at its initial meeting held in Los Angeles on January 10,
1954, the committee determined that a survey of advertisers in "sane#
tioned" publications should be made. The letter to advertisers and
questionnaire, (Exhibits A and B), were therefore, drawn by the com#
mittee acting as a whole and were sent to each of the advertisers ap#
pearing in the December 1953 or other latest issue of each sanctioned
·
publication.
The returns from advertisers in a particular publication were direct#
ed to one of the members of your committee and tabulated by that
member, so that each member received and tabulated an approximate
equal number of answers. Replies received from Masons and those
received from non#Masons were separately compiled, and we have these
on file.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
RESULTS OF SURVEY AND RECOMME NDATIONS

151

The result of the survey in each case was discussed at length by the
committee at its second meeting held in San Francisco April 10-12, 1954,
and, as a result, the committee voted unanimously to recommend that
sanction be withdraw n from the following publications:
1. The Masonic News, Huntingto n Park
2. The Square and Compass, Lomita
3. Seaboard Mason and Eastern Star, Long Beach
4. The Southern California Masonic Journal, Ontario
In each of these instances, the answers of advertisers to the ques#
tionnaire showed conclusively that:
1. The advertisers were lead to believe that the publication repre#
sented Masonry.
2. That the advertising solicitor presented himself as representing
Masonry.
3. That the advertiser felt that he gained no advantage from his
advertisement, but considered it to :be a donation to Masonry.
4. That solicitation was, in large measure, by telephone.
5. That in many instances, the solicitor used high pressure methods
and even intimated that if the advertisement were not forthcoming, the
advertiser would be considered unfriendly toward Masonry.
Needless to say, this information was given the Grand Master for
his guidance. The action of the Grand Master in the matter is known
to the Craft throughou t the jurisdiction hy reason of his letter to all
Lodges dated April 30, 1954.
We believe that special note should be made of the Masonic News
as illustrative of the besetting sin inherent in the commercializing of
Masonry. This publication was operated by a woman, who, in 1946,
entered into a 10-year contract placing the exclusive right to solicit
advertising in the hands of one Robert Mero, a member of Bell Lodge
No. 483. As compensation for his services Mero was to receive 60%
"of all advertising monies collected." His conduct and solicitation meth#
ods, as shown by our surVey, constituted an affront to decency. The
publisher, however, had no right under the contract to govern his methods. As a result of his actions, · sanction was withdrawn, however, he
still solicited ads and, in fact, demanded that she either continue to
publish or tum the publication over to him so that he could continue to
feather his nest.
An additional recommendation for the revocation of sanction should
here. The sanction for "The Shriner" was granted in 1953 to
noted
be
Cecil L. Loomis of Santa Barbara, who was also publisher of the
Channel counties Mason and Eastern Star, upon his statement that a

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

152

153

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

need existed in Santa Barbara for such a publication. Nothing further
was heard of this necessity until the committee was informed by San
Diego Masons that this publisher was soliciting ads in San Diego for a
publication to be issued for San Diego Shrinedom and was to be operated under this previously granted sanction. It should here be noted
that the Grand Master had, prior to this abortive attempt, received two
applications for sanction to publish in San Diego and had refused both,
and your committee is infqrmed this fact was known to Loomis. In view
of this misuse of the sanction privilege, after full vertifkation of the
facts, the committee recommended that the sanction previously granted
in this case ·be revoked. The Grand Master concurred in the recommendation and sanction was revoked.
On August 1954, Leo J. Friis advised your chairman that he was
voluntarily surrendering sanction to publish the Masonic Herald and
that publication would cease with the July issue. The Grand Master
accepted the surrender and sanction to publish the Masonic Herald has
been cancelled.
SURVEY OF LoDGE TRESTLE BOARDS

At the first meeting of the committee on January 10, 1954, there was
also prepared a Letter to Masters (Exhibit C ) and a Survey of Lodge
Trestle Boards (Exhibit D). T·h e purpose of this survey was manifold.
It would gather for the benefit of the Craft, data on costs of publication
and examples of the best in lodge trestle boards or bulletins. Replies
have come in gratifying number from all over the jurisdiction. The
trestle boards show a variance, from simple postal card notices to manypaged monthly news letters, ·bringing the members of lodges in close
contact, one with another. Some of these bulletins are on exhibit in
Polk Hall during this Communication. Masters and Wardens are urged
to study this exhibit for the challenge it will give and the ideas it will
inspire in each of them.
In at least two notable instances, the lodges of a city or county have
joined in the publication of a bulletin. The lodges of Orange County
have joined in a single publication which, at a printing and mailing cost
of 3Yic per member, gives the news of all of the lodges of that progressive and growing area to every member of every lodge. The splendid
work of the Vallejo lodges has been the subject of special mention by
preceding committees and bears our hearty commendation. Lodges of
geographical or inspectorial districts may well find in the issuance of
joint bulletins the happy solution of reduced cost and broader dissemination of information among members.
In conjunction with this phase of the publication problem, the Grand
Master has, in answer to questions directed by this committee, issued
his decision No. 3, which clarifies the right of lodges to permit a bona
fide printer who prints its Trestle Board or a bona fide mailing service

to mail Trestle Boards to its members, and only for that purpose, to
maintain a mailing list of members. This, of course, also applies to
several lodges which may, in concert, engage the services of a single
printer or mailing service.
The survey also showed that 35 Lodges, or approximately 5% of
all Lodges in the State, published their Trestle Boards exclusively in
sanctioned publications and did not print or distribute trestle boards
within their own membership.
While Grand Master Warren had relaxed certain previous regulations regarding the printing of Lodge Trestle Boards in these publications, he stated (Proc. 1953, p. 90) in his letter to the Lodges dated
February 15, 1953:
" ( 4 ) Your attention is invited to the fact that neither the
Grand Master's circular nor this letter has altered the existing
prohibitions on ... the use of Lodge funds for the assistance or
remuneration of Masonic publications (or) the release of Lodge
rosters, official notices of a confidential nature, or names and
addresses of old or new members for solicitation purposes."
This was in keeping with the Decision of Grand Master Drapeau
relative to Kern County Masonry and Eastern Star. (Proceedings 1952,
p. 28: Ross Digest Sec. 635a, p. 274.) That decision reads as follows:
"May a lodge use its funds available for fraternal intercourse
to print and publish in an advertising magazine known as 'Kern
County Masonry and Eastern Star' information concerning the
lodge? The answer is no."
This deci;ion was approved by the Jurisprudence Committee and
adopted by Grand Lodge.
The survey of lodges showed that the 14 lodges in Kern County paid
to Kern County Masonry and Eastern Star a uniform fee of Sc per
member for the magazine and furnished the publisher with a list of
members for the purpose of mailing.
This violation by the publisher of this ruling and the further violation by the publisher of statements in his application relating to the
same subject caused the committee, by unanimous vote, to recommend
the withdrawal of sanction by the Grand Master.
This action was taken by the Grand Master on Jun~ 14, 1954.
NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL OF SANCTION

In order to give the advertisers in those publications from which
sanction had been withdrawn a notice of this action, the committee, at
the direction of the Grand Master, and after consultation as to its legal
aspects with the Deputy Grand Master, prepared and sent to each
advertiser previously contacted a Notice of Withdrawal of Sanction
( Exhibit E).

154

155

PROCEE,DINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Because of the widesprea d impression existent among the advertiser s
In those pu:blications still bearing sanction that ( 1 ) the publication represente? .Masonry and ( 2) that by advertisin g in the publication they
were aiding Masonry, a letter clarifying this situation was prepared
and mailed to these advertiser s. This letter is appended (Exhibit F).

Have we the moral right to license a publisher to sell our fraternity
and its traditions to his advertisers? Have we the right to ask, through
him, for donations from the profane? Have we the right, as individual
Masons, to parade our Masonry in commercial publications? ."'four committee thinks not. Have we not a duty to the public to say we do not
put the dollar sign on The Square and Compass. " Your committee belives that we do have such a duty.

CONCLUSI ONS OP COMMITT EE

Regarding the question of sanction and the present law as enacted
under Sec. 127, the following questions arise in our minds and we ask
you to ponder them with us.
585 Lodges of this jurisdiction have paid their own way as far as
trestle board publication is concerned. Grand Lodge refused to relax
the law to permit this overwhelming majority of our lodges to carry
advertisin g in trestle boards. 14 lodges have this year met disciplinary
action because a commercially operated, privately owned publication
induced them to violate clear-cut and well-docu mented Masonic law.
Your committee, in another instance, received a 'letter from the
secretary of a lodge whose bulletin is published in the Channel Counties
Mason and Eastern Star, stating that the publisher had requested him
to send the names of the new members, as "So many new members are
not getting a copy of the Channel Counties Mason and Eastern Star."
The secretary then went on to say that he had been "requestin g our
newly raised members (that) they should send in their own subscriptions .~hen raised so they will receive our monthly Bulletin. Explainin g
why. He then goes on to say that it seems to him that the request of
~~e publisher does not appear to violate any edicts of Grand Lodge and
saves the embarrass ment of requesting a newly raised Mason to
immediately be asked to subscribe to a magazine. " Brethren, need we
say more?
Have we the Masonic right to demand that a Mason sign a subscription blank as well as the by-laws of his lodge before he can receive
the trestle board of his lodge 1
21 lodges remain in the category of those whose members must
subscribe to a privately owned magazine to receive their Master's
message. They, too, like the lodges of Orange County, of Vallejo, and
now Kern County, can band together for the common good. They too
can have, at reasonable cost, the news of other lodges' activities, as well
as of their own.
Grand Lodge has also pointed the way. Since the last communication
the "Californ ia Freemaso n," the official publication of Grand Lodge has
been launched. Our informatio n indicates that this publication has
received the approbatio n and approval of all who have seen and read it.
Reason and logic would bar competition to this official publication of
Grand Lodge by privately owned commercial publications.

LEGISLATION RECOMME NDED

We, therefore, unanimou sly submit the following resolution:
"RESOLV ED, that Sec. 127 of the Ordinance s be and is
hereby amended by striking from the flrst line of the second
paragraph thereof the words 'without the express sanction of
Grand Lodge'."
Upon the adoption of this resolution the second ·p aragraph of Sec.
127 of our Ordinance s would read as follows:
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert,
place or print advertisin g of any kind in or for any medium or
publication, which purports to be Masonic in name or character,
or which is published by or for any body, order or organizati on
requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership."
SURVEY OP NON-SANC TIONED PUBLICATI ONS

We tum now to those publications which either were denied sanction
or did not make any applicatio n for sanction.
These periodicals are what might be called scissors and paste pot
operations. Their columns are made up of articles, sometimes years old,
snipped from other papers and surrounde d by advertisements. At the
start, we had no copies of these publications and no concrete knowledge
of their present existence. However, we requested the advertiser s in
sanctioned publications to furnish information and names of any other
publications in which they had been advertisin g.
Upon the leads thus obtained, your committee, with great difficulty.
obtained current copies of the following publications:
Masonic Star (Easter issue, 1954) 855 advertisem ents
Masonic Directory (Easter issue, 1954) 1089 advertisements
Masonic World ( Spring, 1954 issue) 240 advertisem ents
Masonic Citizen ( Spring, 1954 issue) 41 7 advertisem ents
Masonic Trestle Board (May. 1954 issue) 123 advertisements
Total advertisem ents, 2,724
A letter and questionn aire ( Exhibits G and H ) were then sent to each
of these advertiser s, and returns will be referred to in the case of each
publication as we chart its mode of operation.

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESULTS OP SURVEY

The returns from advertisers showed:
Masons constituted 47% and non-Masons 53% of advertisers.
87% of Masons and 100% of non-Masons were led to believe
the publication represented Masonry.
63% of Masons and 58% of non-Masons thought they were
helping Masonry by advertising.
27% of Masons and 31 % of non-Masons complained of high
pressure methods.
Telephone calls represented 80% of Masons' and 80% of
non-Masons' contact with the solicitor.
75% of Masons and 76% of non-Masons thought they were
donating to Masonry.
20% of each category never saw a copy of the magazine.
The Masonic Directory and Eastern Star News, 1645 N. La Brea,
published by Frank J. Goettling, 14846 Dickens Ave., Sherman Oaks, a
member of Highland Park Lodge No. 382. While this magazine shov:ed
no publisher, investigation disclosed that since 1950, Frank J. Goettlmg
was the responsible party, both for the telephone and the office lease. He
was, therefore, contacted and admitted that he had a financial interest
in the publication. While he claimed that the management of the publication had passed to one J. R. Crowley, a non-Mason, he has, at the time
of this report, made no move to produce Mr. Crowley. He has stated
that the Masonic Directory was ceasing publication and would not reenter the field ••the last issue printed being the Easter, 1954 issue. However, a June issue containing 1036 ads has reached our hands. The
returns from advertisers showed:
34% of advertisers were Masons and 66% non-Masons.
80% of Masons and 90% of non-Masons were led to believe
the publication represented Masonry.
85% of Masons and 90% of non-Masons thought they were
helping Masonry by advertising.
30% of Masons and 27% of non-Masons complained of high
pressure methods.
78% of Masons and 60% of non-Masons were contacted by
telephone.
82% of Masons and 84% of non-Masons considered their
advertising a donation.
22 % of Masons and 31 % of non-Masons never saw a copy
of the publication.
The Masonic Citizen. Los Angeles. This publication, issued by Frank
Thomas a member of American Lodge No. 475, has been published in
direct d;fiance of Masonic law since 1951, sanction having been denied
at that time. The returns from advertisers showed:

The Masonic Star is published by Glenn M. Whitfield, formerly a
member of Presidio Lodge (expelled 1953). Its San Francisco address
is P .0. Box 3323. This pU'blication also carries a Los Angeles address
of 7070 Hollywood Blvd., telephone HO. 4-0255. Investigation of this
last address disclosed a telephone switchboard service. The owner informed the committee that mail received was forwarded, unopened, to
Whitfield. When phone calls were received, the operators were instructed to answer with the statement "the manager of the Masonic Star is
out and will return shortly." One of the publisher's agents would then
phone in at intervals and pick up these calls. All arrangements were by
mail and she had never seen Whitfield. Since our investigation, this
office connection no longer exists.
The returns from advertisers showed:
Masons constituted 40%, and non-Masons 60% of advertisers.
77% of Masons and 90% of non-Masons were led to believe
the publication represents Masonry.
60% of Masons and 85% of non-Masons thought they were
helping Masonry by advertising.
23% of Masons and 30% of non-Masons complained of high
pressure methods.
68% of Masons and 60% of non-Masons were contacted by
telephone (a favorite high pressure approach).
80% of Masons and 70% of non-Masons considered the advertisement a donation (it was-to the publisher).
11 % of Masons and 12% of non-Masons never saw a copy of
the publication.
The Masonic Trestle Board. This publication is published by Mrs.
Glenn M. Whitfield. The San Francisco address given in the publication
is Room 306, 83 McAllister St. A visit to this address and an inquiry
for a copy of the magazine brought the information that this address was
only a mail-receiving office. No direct contact with the publisher was
possible. A subscription placed by mail was the only means of obtaining
a copy of this publication.
·
In Southern California this publication used what might be termed
"a galloping address." For the "Holiday" issue, 1953. the address used
for the return of advertisers' checks was given as 9015 Wilshire Blvd .•
Beverly Hills. This turned out to be a switchboard and mail drop service
which merely forwarded mail to G. M. Whitfield. For the "Easter" issue,
1954, the address was changed to Suite 309, 360 North Bedford Drive,
Beverly Hills. which turned out to be a similar office. No direct contact
could be made with any representative of the publication through these
offices. The June solicitations hare the home address of P.O. Box 3216,
San Francisco.

157

158

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"47% of advertisers were Masons and 53% non-Masons.
81 % of Masons and 85% of non-Masons were led to believe
the publication represented Masonry.
82% of Masons and 87% of non-Masons thought they were
helping Masonry by advertising.
23% of Masons and 17% of non-Masons complained of high
pressure methods.
87% of Masons and 86% of non-Masons were contacted by
telephone.
75% of Masons and 71 % of non-Masons considered the ad
as a donation.
12% of Masons and 11 % of non-Masons received no copy
of the publication.
·
The Masonic World. This publication, published by James Adam.
a member of Durant Lodge No. 268, has been published, with advertising printed therein, in direct defiance of Masonic law since 1951. The
July issue shows Harry Adam, a brother of James Adam, also a member
of Durant Lodge No. 268. as the publisher. The returns from advertisers
showed:
"46% of advertisers were Masons and 5-4% non-Masons.
68% of Masons and 96% of non-Masons were led to believe
the publication represented Masonry.
80% of Masons and 87% of non-Masons thought they were
helping Masonry by advertising.
17% of Masons and 7% of non-Masons thought high pressure methods were used.
71 % of Masons and 70% of non-Masons were contacted by
telephone.
66% of Masons and 88% of non-Masons. considered their
advertisement as a donation. .
6% of Masons and 9% of non-Masons never received a copy
of the magazine.
Your committee reported the activity and lodge connections of those
Masons found to be responsible for these various magazines to the Grand
Master. Suitable disciplinary action was recommended and approved by
the Grand Ma~ter and Masonic charges have been preferred against
those Masons who have wilfully violated our law.
CONCLUSIONS OP COMMITTEE

No action within the framework of Masonic law can possibly touch
those non-Masons who flaunt the good name of Masonry and who, according to conservative estimates, annually extract a quarter million dollars from the public through the name of our fraternity.
Your attention is directed to the fact that many of the appendant
bodies to Masonry are the worst offenders in aiding and abetting the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

159

continuation and growth of these publications for they freely furnish
photographs and information of their activities and thus lay a cloak of
authenticity upon such publications. When this information was placed
before the Grand Master, he caused a letter to be prepared and sent to
the heads of such appendant bodies. A copy of such letter is hereto
attached (Exhibit I).
Even though information may be withheld, clipping services and the
supplying of cuts by photographers will still maintain grist for their
limited reading columns.
Your Deputy Grand Master has left his mark in the courtrooms of
this State. His fearless stand for the fundamental ideals of Masonry
has brought recognition to California as a seat of leadership. His incisive
mind goes to the heart of a problem and, clearing away the chaff of
doubt, brings forth the clear golden grain of truth.
That truth is this.
"Grand Lodge does not authorize or approve the use of the
names 'Mason,' 'Freemason,' 'Free and Accepted Mason,' 'Masonry,' or 'Masonic,' or the use of Masonic emblems or symbols
in any publication pretending to be Masonic in name or character.
To permit the use of these names, symbols and emblems in the
perpetration of fraud against the public and against members of
the fraternity is abhorrent to the members of the Craft and destructive of the good name of Masonry."
Brethren, we ask you to consider with us whether or not this Grand
Lodge has a moral obligation and a legal duty to take such steps as may
be necessary to ·p revent those who would, now and in the future, ply
their unscrupulous commercial practices in and under the name of Masonry upon the public in general whose respect for Masonry is so great
that it falls easy prey to their fraudulent actions and representations. It
is the unanimous opinion of this committee that this Grand Lodge does
have such an obligation and duty.
LEGAL ACTION RECOMMENDED

We believe that as your present Grand Master has fearlessly shone
the light of fact upon a problem too long covered with the cloak of
emotion, so will the incoming Grand Master, if it be the will of this
Grand Lodge, cause action to ·be taken in the courts of California to
enjoin those who would use our good name and symbols for private gain
from the continuance of this practice.
Such action would not set a precedent. In 1953, The Grand Lodge
of Washington flied an action against one Glenn C. Vaux and others
to enjoin them "from using the name 'Masonic' and the square and compasses symbol, and from using any similar name or symbol which would
be calculated to deceive." The allegations in the complaint furnished

160

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

we quote from
your committee are so pertin ent to this discussion that
them as follows:
have
"Tha t the defen dants repres ent to the public that they
ass
comp
and
e
squar
the
and
nic'
'Maso
name
the
use
the right to
tively
decep
so
is
emblem. That the name adopt ed by defen dants
is· consimilar to the name of plaintiff organ izatio n that the public
to
that
or
iff
plaint
sent
repre
fused into thinking that defen dants
r
neithe
fact,
and
truth
in
when
iff,
plaint
aid defen dants would aid
ddefen
and
n
izatio
organ
iff
plaint
of
er
memb
of defen dants is a
y they
ants are in no way accountable to plaintiff for the mone
is intising
adver
ing
receive. That defen dants ' method of obtain
re
ventu
entire
the
That
iff.
jurious to (the) reputa tion of plaint
good
the
on
g
tradin
by
tising
adver
sell
of defen dants is set up to
ued use
name and reputa tion of plaintiff. That defen dants ' contin
l are .
of the name 'Maso nic' and squar e and compasses symbo
causing plaintiff irrepa rable injury...• "
rende red and
We are informed that judgm ent in that case has been
n.
ingto
Wash
entere d in favor of the Gran d Lodg e of
ant to Chap We would also call your attent ion to the fact that pursu
regist ration
the
for
de
provi
to
act
"An
d
entitle
ter 409. Statu tes of 1933.
associations, and
and protection of the names and insignia of frater nal
same by any
the
of
use
to prohibit the wearing, exhibition, display or
and fixing
same,
the
use
or
y
perso n not entitle d to wear, exhibit, displa
mber
Nove
in
did,
Lodge
d
Gran
this
a penal ty for the violation thereo f,"
Free
of
Lodge
d
Gran
l
hipfu
Wors
Most
1936, regist er the name "The
ia,
insign
l
severa
and
rnia"
Califo
of
State
the
of
ns
and Accepted Maso
one of which is the Squar e and Comp ass.
·
We, therefore. offer the following resolution:
r be and he is
Maste
d
Gran
RESO LVED . that the incoming
in the courts
action
te
institu
to
wered
hereb y autho rized and empo
F&A M
Lodge
d
Gran
the
of
f
behal
on
rnia
of the State of Califo
word s
the
of the State of Califo rnia to establish that its name and
and
nry
Maso
n,
Maso n, Freemason. Free and Accep ted Maso
used
be
not
shall
ms
Masonic, and Maso nic symbols and emble
for that
for fraud ulent purpo ses nor for privat e gain or profit and
suits
such
ence
comm
may
el.
couns
legal
purpo se he may retain
may
he
as
action
other
such
take
and
ble.
advisa
as he shall deem
f
thereo
ses
deem prope r in the premises, and all costs and expen
d
Gran
this
of
funds
shall he a prope r charg e again st the gener al
ComLodge. Your committee recommends that the Publications
year.
mittee be continued for anoth er
RALP H K. PIERS ON
L. E. ALT
DONA LD G. CAMP BELL
HERB ERT R. HARG RAVE
VINC ENT McMuRDO

161

and Gene ral
Refer red to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy
Purposes.
on Policy and
The Committee on Jurisprudence and the Committee
of the propo sals
Gene ral Purpo ses separ ately repor ted their approval
.
submitted by the Comm ittee on Publications
5/6 vote. .
The ·proposal to amen d Section 127 was adopt ed by a
r to instiThe propo sal to autho rize and empower the Grand Maste
ed.
adopt
ly
mous
unani
was
courts
tute action in the
EXHIB IT A
( LETTE R TO ADVE RTISE RS)

Dear Sir:

nic natur e
The number of publications purpo rting to ·be of a Maso
has beties
locali
some
in
ution
distrib
and their growt h and wides pread
Lodg e
d
Gran
The
rnity.
Frate
nic
Maso
the
in
rn
come cause for conce
obtain
to
voring
of Free and Accep ted Maso ns of Califo rnia is endea
abuses exist.
what
ine
determ
to
order
in
ation
inform
sed
unbia
bona fide.
and readtisers
adver
to
e
if any. and if such publications rende r a servic
.
claims
ers commensurate with their
ns has direct To accomplish this purpo se the Grand Mast er of Maso
rehensive surve y
ed the Committee on Publications to make a comp
res. Information
among advertisers in the form of confidential questionnai
members of the
than
furnished will not ·be disclosed to anyon e other
r.
committee and the Gran d Maste
captioned
We urge yodr cooperation, as an adver tiser in the above
you
assure
and
ire
ionna
quest
sed
enclo
the
ring
publication, by answe
sed
ddres
self-a
A
that your confidence will be respected and appreciated.
ire.
ionna
quest
leted
envelope is enclosed for prom pt return of the comp
Sincerely yours,
COMM ITTEE ON PUBLI CATIO NS
EXHIB IT B
SURVE Y OP ADVERTISERS

tisement, a
1. Are you, or the person responsible for your adver
Yes .... No
....
nity?
member of the Masonic Frater
Maso nry?
2. Are you led to believe that this publication repres ents
.... Yes .... No
contain Ma3. Woul d you advertise in this publication if it did not
Yes .... No
....
sonic Lodge bulletins or directories?
you are
ation
4. Do you believe that by advertising in this public
.... No
Yes
....
helping Maso nry?
medium
5. Do you believe that this publication is a good advertising .... No
Yes
....
and has value to your business?

162

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

6. Advertising rate paid $..........•..•- per inch.
Do you believe this rate is commensurate with the value received?
....Yes ....No
Have you ever been billed for more than the price you agreed to
....Yes ....No
pay for your ad?
7. Does the person who solicits your advertising give you the im....Yes .... No
pression that he is representing Masonry?
advertiseyour
obtain
to
8. Are any high pressur e methods used
....No
Yes
....
ment?
ne
Telepho
....
Person
9. How does the solicitor contact you? ... Jn
would
10. Are you led to believe that if you did not advertise, you
....Yes .... No
be considered unfriendly to Masonry?
11. Has the ·publication, its employees or agents, ever solicited or
accepted any donation from you for any purport ed Masonic charity?
.... Yes .... No
12. Do you believe that your advertisement is a good investment or
.... Good Investment .... Donatio n
a donation?
13. Do you receive a copy of your advertisement before it is pub....Yes .... No
lished?
advertiseyour
which
in
tion
publica
the
14. Do you receive a copy of
.... No
Yes
....
ment appears?
....No
Yes
....
ions?
publicat
15. Do you advertise in any other similar
·
Please list.
Please
ated.
appreci
be
16. Additional comment. (Full comment will
use reverse side if necessary.)
Signed...--..................- ..........................--··
Firm Name
By ......................................................:...........
Position
EXHIBIT

c

March 1, 1954 '

To Masters of All Lodges:
Re: Lodge Trestle Boards and Bulletins
The Grand Master has directed this Committee to obtain information
from all Lodges relative to printing and distribution of Lodge trestle
boards and bulletins. Please read the enclosed questionnaire carefully
and answer promptly.
The questionnaire has been prepared for the purpose not only of
ascertaining the policy and practice of your Lodge but to make available
to your Lodge helpful information as to how you can present Lodge
news to your members at lowest cost.
We will appreciate your cooperation in promptly returning the ques-

163

tionnaire and copy of your Trestle Board as well as a copy of any peri..
odical containing your Trestle Board to the undersigned member of the
Committee in the return envelope enclosed.
Fratern ally yours,
COMMI ITEE ON PUBLICA TIONS

Lodge No.............

EXHIBIT D
Name ............................

Location ............................

SURVEY OF LoDGE TRESTL E BoARD PUBLICA TION

1. Does your Lodge publish and distribute its own trestle board
....Yes ....No
and/or calendar of events?
graphed
Mimeo
· .... Printed ....
2. Is it
3. How often is it issued?
4. What is the cost per issue, including printing, mailing and post.................................... Number of members............
age?
....Yes ....No
5. Does it contain news of Lodge social activities?
6. Is your Lodge trestle board published in any periodical or paper?
....Yes ....No
7. Name of periodicals or papers ........................................................
8. Does your Lodje pay the paper or periodical for carrying your
....Yes .... No
trestle board?
per issue.
-·-·_
...
$
issue,
per
fee
Flat
9. If so, is it based upon. ....
ship,
member
.... Fee based upon
$........................ per member.
distributed to members of the Lodge?
paper
10. Is the periodical or
.... By the Lodge Secretary.
.... By the publisher of the periodical.
.... By any other. Explain ............................
...................................... . .....................................____.______
11. Is any subscription price charged your members who receive the
.... Yes .... No
periodicals?
furnished to
been
s
member
Lodge
12. Has any roster or list of your
Yes ....No
....
any publisher?
or other
bulletin
oard,
b
·
Please attach the latest copy of your trestle
which
in
paper
or
al
periodic
any
of
Lodge publication and the latest copy
(See
.
appears
events
of
r
calenda
or
bulletin
your trestle board, lodge
letter.)
EXHIBIT E
AWING SANCTI ON)
WITHDR
E
(NOTIC

An advertisement bearing your name recently appeare d in the above
named publication.
Grand Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Califor nia

164

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ers that notice
has withd rawn sancti on from said publication and consid
you.
due
is
on
sancti
of such withd arwal of
es:
Section 127 of the Ordin ances of this Grand Lodge provid
sancti on of
ss
expre
the
ut
witho
,
Lodge
a
of
"No Lodge or member
adver tising of
Gran d Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print
rts to be
purpo
any kind in or for any medium or publication, which
body,
any
for
or
by
hed
Maso nic in name or chara cter, or which is publis
of
tion
condi
a
as
tion
affilia
nic
order or organ izatio n requiring Maso
membership."
the jurisdicIn view of the withd rawal of sanction no Maso n under
, place or
insert
or,
spons
it,
"solic
fter
herea
tion of this Grand Lodg e may
print adver tising of any kind" in said publication.
for their own
Perso ns who are not Maso ns are advised of this action
guidance.
now receive
Maso nry of this Gran d Lodg e has never and does not
publication
other
any benefit, financial or otherwise, from this or any
repres ent
sense
any
in
not
do
soliciting advertising, and such publications
or speak for our Califo rnia Maso nry.
of the name
Gran d Lodge does not authorize or appro ve the use
signs, emnic
Maso
of
use
the
or
onic,"
"Mas on," "Mas onry" or "Mas
ation pur..
public
other
anr,
or
this
with
ction
blems or symbols in conne
portin g to be Maso nic in name or chara cter.
e whats oever
No adver tising is solicited or accepted from any sourc
this Gran d
by
in any magazine, periodical or publication, published
Lodge or any subor dinate Lodge.
Chair man,
Grand Lodge Comm ittee on Publications
By order of the Grand Maste r.
June 10, 1954
EXHIB IT F
(COPY OF LETTE R TO ADVERTISERS IN SANCT

IONED PUBLI CATIO NS)

Accep ted
It has come to the attent ion of Grand Lodge Free and
above
the
in
tisers
Maso ns of the State of Califo rnia that numerous adver
ents
repres
ation
public
such
name d publication are led to believe that: (a)
the
c)
(
nry;
Maso
g
helpin
are
Maso nry; ( b) by so adver tising they
nry.
Maso
adver tising solicitor repres ents
the adver tisers
This Grand Lodge considers that it owes a duty to
to correc t that erron eous belief.
in this publiWhil e sanction has been grant ed Maso ns to adver tise
the slight est
in
,
imply
to
rued
cation, such sancti on shoul d not be const
ation has
public
The
nry.
Maso
degree, that the publication repres ents
repre sent
not
does
tor
solici
tising
adver
no official stand ing. The
te gain
priva
the
for
hed
publis
and
rinted
p
.
is
ation
Maso nry. The public
and profit of the publisher.

165

grant ed sanc..
The fact that the publisher of this publication has been
ly or indi..
direct
,
tion to "solicit" and "prin t" advertising does not imply
rizes or
autho
Lodge
rectly, by inference or otherwise, that this Grand
or
onic,"
"Mas
or
"
onry,
"Mas
appro ves the use of the name "Mas on,"
this
with
ction
conne
in
ols
symb
or
ms
the use of Maso nic signs, emble
or any other publication.
e whats oever
No advertising is solicited or accepted from any sourc
this Gran d
by
hed
in any magazine, periodical or publication, publis
body.
or
Lodge or any subor dinate Lodge
Very truly yours ,
RALP H K. PIERS ON
Chairman,
Grand Lodge Committee on Publications.
r.
Maste
Grand
the
of
By order
ExHIB ITG
ANCT IONED
(COPY OF LETTE R TO ADVERTISERS IN NON-S

PUBLI CATIO NS)

June 7, 1954
attent ion of
the
to
come
has
ation
The existence of the above public
Califo rnia.
of
State
the
of
ns
Maso
ted
Accep
the Grand Lodge Free and
is not sancThis letter is to inform you that the above publication
. It does
Lodge
Grand
the
by
tioned, sponsored, appro ved or autho rized
ituent
const
its
of
any
for
or
,
Lodge
not repres ent or speak for this Grand
with
cted
conne
n
izatio
organ
or
Lodge
No
Lodges or body of Maso ns.
its
from
ise,
otherw
or
ial
financ
t,
benefi
any
s
this Grand Lodge derive
publication.
that:
Section 127 of the Ordin ances of this Gran d Lodge states
ss sancti on of
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, witho ut the expre
adver tising of
print
Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or
in name or
nic
Maso
be
to
any medium or publication, which purpo rts
izatio n
organ
or
order
body,
any
for
chara cter, or which is published by or
."
ership
memb
to
tion
condi
a
as
tion
requiring Maso nic affilia
a Lodg e
In accordance with the above quote d ordinance no member nofrequir
ing
izatio
organ
or
of Maso ns, or any member of any body, order
..
adver
to
on
sancti
has
ership
memb
Maso nic affiliation as a condition to
Law.
nic
Maso
of
ion
violat
a
is
so
do
to
tise in this publication, and
of the name
Grand Lodge does not authorize or appro ve the use
signs, em ..
nic
Maso
of
use
"Mas on," "Mas onry" or "Mas onic," or the
ation pur..
public
other
any
or
hlems or symbols in connection with this
cter.
chara
or
name
in
porting to be Maso nic
e whats oever
No adver tising is solicited or accepted from any sourc
this Gran d
by
hed
in any magazine, periodical or publication, publis
Lodge or any subor dinate Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We will sincerely appreciate your answering the enclosed questionnaire and returning it to Grand Lodge in the enclosed self-addressed
envelope. It is our desire to eliminate any abuses that are presently being
perpetrated in the name of Masonry and your cooperation will aid us in
this effort.
RALPH K. PIERSON
Chairman.
Grand Lodge Committee on Publications
By order of the Grand Master.

EXHIBIT I

166

EXHIBIT H
(SURVEY OF ADVERTISERS IN NON-SANCTIONED PUBLICATIONS)
1. Are you, or the person responsible for your advertisement, a
member of the Masonic Fraternity?
....Yes ....No
2. Are you led to believe that this publication represents Masonry?
....Yes .... No
3. Are you led to believe that by advertising in this publication you
are helping Masonry?
....Yes ....No
4. Have you ever been billed for more than the price you agreed
to pay for your ad?
....Yes ....No
5. Does the person who solicits your advertising give you the im.
....Yes .... No
pression that he is representing Masonry?
6. Are any high pressure methods used to obtain your advertisement?
....Yes .... No
7. How does the solicitor contact you? ·
.... Mail ... .In Person ....Telephone
8. Are you led to believe that if you did not advertise you would
be considered unfriendly to Masonry?
....Yes ....No
9. Has the publication, its employees or agents, ever solicited or
accepted any donation from you for any purported Masonic charity?
....Yes ....No
10. Do you believe that your advertisement is a good investment or
a donation?
.... Good Investment .... Donation
11. Do you receive a copy of your advertisement before it is published?
·
....Yes .... No
12. Do you receive a copy of the publication in which your advertisement appears?
....Yes ....No
13. Additional comment. (Full comment will be appreciated. Please
·
use reverse side if necessary.)
Signecl...........................................................
Firm Name
By································-································
Position

166A

LETTER TO APPENDANT Booms
September 27, 1954

Re: Unauthorized Publications
Section 127 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge provides that:
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction of Grand Lodge. shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print
advertising of any kind in or for any medium or publication, which
purports to be Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for any body, order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership."
recent survey conducted by the Grand Lodge Committee on Publications has disclosed the existence of a number of publications purport- .
ing to be Masonic in "name or character" not conforming to the above
Masonic law, which solicit advertising from members of the public on
the strength of the purported Masonic relationship.
A review of copies of these pU'blications discloses that pictures, news
items, lists of officers and other data have seemingly been furnished these
publications by you or your subordinate bodies. These various things
lend a false atmosphere of authority to these publications. They permit
some of the publishers and their advertising crews to prey upon the
unwary and to obtain advertising revenues which are entirely unearned
and unwarranted.
The Grand' Lodge of California is determined to stamp out this abuse
of Masonry and the defrauding of the public in the name of Masonry.
To that end I am addressing you as head of an organization which
requires Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership requesting your
support.
No recognition can be granted publications, purporting to be Masonic
in "name or character" not conforming to our law, and the furnishing of
pictures, news items, lists of officers, and other data by you or your subordinate bodies may be so construed and also constitute a violation of
Masonic law.
The only publications which are currently sanctioned by the Grand
Lodge are:
Channel Counties Mason and Eastern Star
published at Santa Barbara
San Luis Obispo County Mason and Eastern Star
published at Cambria
Southern California Shriner and Bay Area Mason
published at Beverly Hills
I trust that you will immediately take the necessary steps to advise

A

166B

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'

your subordinate bodies of the above Masonic Law and to cease furnishing pictures, news items, lists of officers or other data to such publications, except as provided in the preceding paragraph.
Very truly yours,

AFTERNOON SESSION-Tuesday, October 12, 1954
Grand Lodge was called on at 2: 30 P. M .. the Grand Master presiding.

FAITH OF OUR FATHERS

FRANK HARWELL, JR • .

HERBERT A. HUEBNER, Grand Orator

Grand Master

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON MASONIC INFORMATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Information reports as follows:
We regret to report that Bro. Robert F. Shippee, Past Master of
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458, and one of the most active and enthusiastic members that your Committee has ever had. passed away in Los
Angeles June 20, 1954. Bro. Shippee will be remembered for his robust
good nature, his love for an argument, and his fidelity to friends and·
duty. Inasmuch as Bro. Shippee constituted one-half the Committee by
number and more than that in many other ways, no more need be said
about the rest.
The tender by your Committee of "707 Questions and Answers about
Freemasonry" having been finallJ rejected, and it being apparent that
no other publication pretending to state facts which some one might
deny would be acceptable, your Committee has not prepared any further material of that kind as a Committee, but has turned to the field of
general publication. One member of the Committee has just brought out
a volume of 250 pages which gives a comprehensive view of Freemasonry
from the earliest times to the present, but no more can be said here lest
we be suspected of advertising and modesty prevents · our comment on
the merits of the book which are undoubtedly very great!
No matter how much the Grand Lodge of California may grow, no
matter what fine memorial Temple it may build for itself, we must remember that it has not yet solved the problem of how to carry the story
of Freemasonry or virtually anything about Freemasonry outside the
ritual, to the members of the Craft.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY

w. COIL

Chairman
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

167

Most Worshipful Grand Master, and Past Grand Masters,
Officers and Brethren of the Grand Lodge of California,
and Distinguished Masonic Guests:
We are privileged to meet here today because a century and some
years ago the torch bearers of Masonk light trudged over the summits
of the Sierra Nevada or crossed the Isthmus of Panama or sailed around
the Horn, converging in Northern California, the cradle of our State
and of Masonry in California.
They were rough and rugged journeys, beset with the hazards of
desert, mountain and sea. We owe much to those hardy pioneers who
brought enlightened humanity to the shores of the Pacific, and with it
the principles of representative government, and the Masonic ideals of
Liberty, Equality and Fraternity.
Today, orange groves and vineyards spread ·their verdure and bear
their fruit where the wild barley once grew shoulder high to a man on
horseback, cotton bursts its white ·bolls where sage brush once thirsted.
Roses and lilies bestow fragrance and beauty in the myriad gardens of
our homes. Multi-lane freeways sweep through mountain passes where
battles were fought and outlaws held up stages. There are twelve million people in California, now the second most populous state in our
nation.
.
In 1852, when the Grand Lodge of California was two years old, it
embraced 22 duly constituted Lodges, and 3 U.D., with a total membership of 655 Master Masons. Recent figures disclose a total of 626 chartered Lodges and 15 U.D. with a membership of about 220,000. While
we rank but sixth among the states in Masonic membership, the rapid
influx of population has brought within our boundaries many thousands
of sojourning Masons who have not affiliated with California Lodges
and therefore cannot be counted.
Thus Masonry, as an institution, although lagging at times, has in
general paralleled in growth the life of California. Moreover, it has contributed men of stature to the pulpit, the capitol, the bench and bar,
the military. Great surgeons, and educators, and industrialists are on its
roster. Masons of manifold vocations are abroad in the world, each
practicing-to greater or lesser extent-the lessons learned in the Lodge

Room.

.

It is significant that two thousand, and more, men have laid aside
At 1 :05 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:30 P. M.

the scalpel, the law hook, the production schedule, the wrench and ham-

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mer, the plow and harrow, and the Wall Street Journal, to convene as
Masons here today-d evoting a week out of the year to the serious
attentio n of the affairs of Masonr y in California. There are some things
in a man's heart that the cardiograph does not reveal.
You, my brethren, are far advance d in Masonr y. First, you have
learned the ritual thoroughly: second, you have progressed toward a
mastery of the symbolism of Masonry: third, you have acquired an
underst anding of the philosophy inherent in it: and fourth, you are living according to Masonic light, some fitfully and spasmodically, others
regular ly and incessantly!
This reference to the four steps in a man's Masoni c life is a preface
to the comment that in your hands the Liberty of the people of this world
would not be in jeopardy: Equalit y would be more than a Utopian con•
cept: and Fratern ity would replace famine, and hardship, and suffering.
The destiny of mankind is the deep concern of Masons. We are descended from the same stock, partake of the same nature, and share the
same hope. That hope comprehends Liberty, Equalit y and Fratern ity.
We began as one family. Some day we hope again to become one family.
Meanwhile, you and I are traveling for the flick of an eyelash, as
measured against eternity, down the long corridor of time where the
footprints of past generations are scarcely discern able-fo otprints made
by weary men who knew only servitude, ·or at best subjection to the
will of the few.
Ancient Greece is said to have been inhabited by five million freemen and twelve million slaves. The vast water works of Rome, and the
commercial and military highways, were built by slave labor. The serfdom of feudal Englan d is a dark scene of history. The word "liberty "
found rare use in those days of human oppression, although it was present in the twenty-fifth chapter of Leviticus, tenth verse, which I will
subsequently quote. Mankin d lived in political and philosophical chaos.
Hammu rabi's code of laws had iheen lost in the dust of forgotten time.
The Ten Commandments were unknown to the many, impotent in the
hands of the learned. Imprisonment was haphaz ard and at the caprice
of the powerful.
Out of these intellectual and moral mud flats finally emerged in England a writ issued by a judge to bring before him a man to determine
whethe r there had been illegal confinement. That was the Writ of Habeas Corpus .
The .principle of that springboard to freedom was soon affirmed in
the Magna Carta issued by King John in the year 1215 under the compulsion of his barons.
Among the many clauses in that Great Charter , the following have
particul ar significance to us:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

169

"No free-man shall be taken, or imprisoned, ... except by the
legal judgme nt of his peers or by the law of the land.

*

*

*

"To no one will we sell, deny, or delay right or justice."
Anothe r clause provided that all persons are to ,be free to
come and go in time of peace, except outlaws and prisoners.
The Great Charter began to illuminate the life of mankind but at
times the lamp was nearly extinguished for lack of supporting fuel.
Four hundred years later we see a handful of pilgrims tossing in a
small vessel on the high seas sailing westwa rd, composing and adoptin g
a code of laws for the colony to ·be founded by them, to which laws
they promised "all due submission and obedience." That was the Mayflower Compact, the first of the great American documents defining the
principles of freedom by self-government.
The other four which I commend to you are the Declaration of Independence, The Constit ution with its Bill of Rights, Washin gton's Farewell Address, and Lincoln's Gettysb urg Addres s. The cornerstone of
them all is the principle that Liberty is an unalienable right.
Between the date of the Mayflower Compa ct and the publication of
the Declaration of Independence, four Lodges of Freemasons in London
formed themselves into a Grand Lodge.
It matters not whence they came. The early history of our Order is
not accurat ely known. It may be interesting to speculate as to what we
derived from the ancient mysteries, how the legend of King Solomon's
Temple found its way into our ritual, and whethe r the Essenes contained
the germs of Freemasonry. We can read with interest, but not much
profit except the benefit of perspective, about the Roman Collegia, the
Guilds of the Middle Ages, and the Cathed ral Builders.
Many of our brethre n with the speculative mind have poured from
one vial to another , ephemeral fluids distilled from the past. Occasionally
a drop will glow with prismatic radiance to renew or reveal some fact
or philosophy. But in the end we return to the ritual and the form of
organization of Freema sonry as established by the brethre n in Englan d
and which are the foundations upon which this Grand Lodge is erected.
Those four Lodges in London were numerically insignificant against
the population of even the City of London. One-fifth of the population
was composed of beggars and paupers. Labor had no rights worth mentioning. Corrup tion and brutalit y scourged the city. Executions for
crime were a favorite public spectacle.
Yet through those Lodges funnelled the moral philosophy accruing
as the high tide of five thousan d years of human struggle! Those Lodges
and their offspring conditioned men by inculcating in them the principles
of Liberty, Equalit y and Fratern ity, to become the founding fathers of
our nation.

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

They were Masons who declared to the world of 1776 "these truths
to be self-evident, that all men are created equal. that they are endowed
by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among them are
Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness."
They were Masons who framed our Constitution to "secure the
Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity."
It was a Past Master of a Lodge in Virginia, who said in his Farewell
Address:
"Interwoven as is the love of liberty with every ligament of
your hearts, no recommendation of mine is necessary to fortify or
confirm the attachment... . The independence and liberty you
possess are the work of joint councils and joint efforts, of common
dangers, sufferings and successes."
Washington's heart was filled with grief for those who had died in
freedom's cause, and lay buried at Lexington, at Valley Forge, at Yorktown.
Was he given the vision to foresee the graves on the field of Gettysburg, at SanJuan Hill. along the Western Front, in the Argonne Forest?
Did he realize that men would die for Liberty at Pearl Harbor, Bataan,
Anzio, on the Normandy Beach, on Iwo Jima, and Okinawa, in the far
flung Islands of the Pacific, and in Korea?
Even as the gates of the tomb closed upon the remains of our Masonic brother and first President, his last will and testament revealed a
startling inconsistency in the thinking of men. Slavery of the Negro had
been accepted practice on the theory that Negroes were chattels. Washington by his will, provided for freedom of some of the slaves he owned
and for humane treatment of the others. Thus, as he contemplated the
end of his earthly days, he drew a design on the Trestle Board which
Abraham Lincoln although not a Mason, but a student of Masonry,
understood and followed sixty-odd years later. Half the nation, which
had been conceived in liberty, refused to acknowledge that the phrase
"all men are created equal" included the Negro slaves.
"Now," said Lincoln at Gettysburg, "we are engaged in a great
civil war, testing whether that nation or any nation so conceived and
so dedicated can long endure." By force of arms and the will of God
the nation survived, and liberty transformed 3,000,000 chattels into
human beings.
What is Liberty?
At the time of the Revolution, liberty meant freedom from tyranny,
from serfdom, from taxation without representation, from compulsion in
religion. It meant the right to representative government, the right to
worship in the church of one's choice, to work together, pray together,
sing together.
It still means that, and more.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

171

It ~eans, in the words of Ex-President Herbert Hoover that "the
individual is free to choose his own calling, to develop his talents, to
win and keep a home sacred from intrusion, to rear children in ordered
security. It holds he must be free to earn, to spend, to save, to accumulate property that may give protection in old age and to loved ones."
This land of liberty can spread a montage on the wide screen of
your memory that is indeed fabulous: See worshippers in cutaways entering the fashionable churches on the avenues, while plain folks tread
the sawdust aisle in Billy Sunday's tent-laugh at the hilarious kidding
of the Supreme Court in the musical comedy "Of Thee I Sing," and
another day thrill to ·the martial strains of Sousa's "Stars and Stripes
Forever"-try to spot among the mothers of today the flappers of the
'20s. it's hard to tell them from those who were cloistered debutanteswatch two All Americans smack leather on the gridiron while thousands cheer, and try to pick the one who is the rich man's son-.
Under our Constitutional System, with liberated minds at work fueled
by incentive, the greatest era of invention known to the world has unfolded during the past half century. It has brought comforts and opportunities beyond compare, and ,beyond the per capita possession of any
other nation! Automobiles for the masses, power tools for the craftsman,
· power appliances for the housewife, more bathtubs, more radio and
television sets, than the oppressed peoples of the world know exist.
All this being factual. you ask, why dwell upon the subject? Because, my brethren, complacency endangers our way of life. Our American System is .still on trial.
Early in our political history, the spoils system threatened our "government of laws and not of men," and ever since, upon occasion, has
deprived us of the best in men and minds.
Because free men are not all honest men, we have paid for appalling
betrayals of public trust.
Because free men are not all altruistic men we have suffered the encroachment of political tyranny, especially under the excuse of emergencies.
Because all free men are not all fair men we have witnessed economic tyranny as the result of greed for wealth.
These internal encroachments on our American System do not provoke us to abandon it, but should activate us to renewed vigilance against
•
recurrence!
External alternates to our American System have been known by
various modern names since the days of Feudalism: Bolshevism, Naziism,
Fascism, Communism. They have in common the principle of National
Regimentation controlled by Autocracy. They have in common denial of
the existence of God.

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

They are thrust upon a people by defamation of the existing system,
followed by an overthrow through seizure or suppression, a surrender
of any power exercised by the legislative bodies, and intimidation or
suppression of the courts.
They are maintained against an unwilling or uninformed public by
manipulation of newspapers and radio and suppression of free speech
and free press-all accompanied by portrayals and promises of Utopia!
What a sad commentary it is on the intelligence of many Americans
-aside from the question of loyalty-that they are gullible enough to
accept and believe such empty promises emanating from the mouths of
men who speak in a foreign tongue, who have never uttered a prayer
to God, who have never knelt at a Masonic altar, who are hostile to us
and everything we have or are!
Let us be thankful that they are a minority in America, but let us
never forget that around the world the people in totalitarian states outnumber us.
Liberty as we know and live it, has been continually threatened from
within and without. The waves of opposition sometimes surge exceedingly high. We, as Americans and Masons, have a solemn duty to
maintain eternal vigilance against domestic encroachments and against
foreign ideologies repugnant to the liberty of the individual!
I commend to you the words and actions of modem statesmen whose
hands are guided by sincerity and justice. You and I may not subscribe
to all that is said and done, but we should be grateful that complacency
does not prevail.
On June 30, 1954, President Eisenhower declared that the hope of
the world lies in peaceful coexistence with the Communists, but added:
"I will not ·b e a party to any agreement that makes anybody a slave."
In July this year, Senator Knowland announced that if Red China
is admitted to the United Nations he would relinquish his post as majority leader and stump the country for the United States to withdraw.
Brother Knowland is a member of a Lodge in this jurisdiction. Whether
withdrawal would best serve the Nation is a question I do not pose.
The point is that Know land is vigilant.
Syngman Rhee, President of the Republic of Korea, in a speech in
Los Angeles, August 6, 1954, warned that Communists believe they have
won the world because they think "America is afraid of war and will
not 8ght."
He continued: ''Our eternal symbol must be justice at any cost, because that will lead to liberty, to the triumph of right, and to the peace
that we can win in no other way."
·The faith of our fathers is not easy 'of fuIBllment. Painstaking has
been the labor. Ohstacles have beset the path.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

173

We who employ symbols and allegory in our ritual, may appropriately compare the challenge to liberty with the life of the Liberty Bell.
symbol of freedom, and symbolic of freedom's struggle. It was ordered
from London to celebrate the 50th year of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania about the middle of the 18th century. Twice it had to be recast
in Philadelphia because of brittleness, before it was hung in a steeple
of the State House ( known later as Independence Hall). In the recasting, some American copper was added to the original bell metal. The
bell bears the inscription from Leviticus XXV, 10, to which I referred:
"Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof"-words spoken by the Lord to Moses on Mt. Sinai. Once, in the
fall of 1777, when the British army was about to occupy Philadelphia,
the bell was removed for sanctuary to a church in Allentown, Pennsylvania, and in June of the following year was returned to Philadelphia.
It remained sound through the years of the Revolution, the founding of
the United States, and the series of Supreme Court decisions authored
by Chief Justice John Marshall, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of Virginia, decisions which construed the Constitution in a manner to
reinforce the Temple of Liberty.
On July 8, 1835, the Liberty Bell with its deep throated solemn tone
joined the rest of the Nation in mourning the death of John Marshall.
In the midst of its funeral tolling it cracked and became silent, as though
the price of Liberty had imposed too great a tension on its brittle walls.
Thus, Marshall and the Liberty Bell ended their active service to the
cause of freedom. But as Marshall can never die in the hearts of his
countrymen, -so the Bell remains as mute evidence of a glorious achievement. Mute, except on June 6, 1944. That was D-Day---iwhen the allies
invaded Normandy. Do you remember the radio 'broadcast that day
when the mayor of Philadelphia tapped the Bell with a rubber mallet,
seven times, once for each letter of the word Liberty? Like a voice from
the past. sepulchral, it stirred the nation. It reminded us of the faith of
our fathers.
The spire of the Old North Church in Boston, another symbol, has
met twice with accidents. The last one, which occurred late this summer
in a hurricane, was serious and will require substantial rebuilding.
The rebuilding will be slow, and tedious. And when we turn to the
destiny of mankind, we likewise confront problems for whieh there is
nb quick solution.
Until the principles of Freemasonry pervade all people, liberty as a
universal privilege and condition will not be achieved. There are those
whose lust for power, thirst for riches, and diabolical egotism will continue to block the path E>f liberty, both at home and abroad. The force
of justice imposed by free nations may be required for survival, ever
~aring in mind the ultimate goal of brotherhood.

174

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Without minimizing our desire for a brighter and better world we
must also be realistic. Major General William F. Dean, Commanding
General of the United States Sixth Army, only last month appealed for
public awareness to the tick of the Kremlin clock. He urged prepared~
ness before war-to avoid war. He sardonically referred to his three
years of "peaceful coexistence" behind the Soviet line of departure in
the Orient. He said that he had all the faith in the world in his ability
to keep from biting a rattlesnake, but he wasn't so sure about the rattle~
snake's faith in his ability to keep from biting him. So the General picks
up a club whenever he sees one-just in case the snake's faith isn't as
strong as his!
Chief Justice Earl Warren, speaking at the dedication of the Ameri~
can Bar Center, in Chicago, on August 19th, said: " ... we give notice
to all, that in the world struggle between the forces of freedom and the
godless totalitarian state, we rededicate ourselves to the principle that
God's way is our way."
That pronouncement by our eminent Past Grand Master epitomizes,
in my opinion, the duty of Masons in the days and years before us.
It is heartening to realize that the torchlights of Masonry are burn~
ing in ever increasing numbers. May they never falter. Old Lodges are
building new temples. New Lodges are being constituted. There are
almost as many Lodges now in California as there were Master Masons
in 1852. It was at one of the ceremonies of constitution during the year
in a coastal town of California that t~e wisdom, strength and beauty of
Masonry impelled me to burn some midnight oil and express in verse
the events of that evening and some Masonic sentiments for use the
following night at another ceremony, in the San Joaquin Valley. I give
you those lines, my brethren, as my closing thought:
At eight last night near Morro Bay,
A group of Masons met,' to say
A new Lodge named Estero,
Which is Spanish for a bay,
Was duly constituted.
Where rolling surf its music played,
Fond memories their thoughts portrayed.
The brethren there were true, and good.
Sincere, and frank, and honest, stood
Their Master-a mechanic by profession,
Who cured the ills, of local engines of combustion.
A Brother schooled in farmer's chores
Of tractor, rake and harvesters;
Whose skillful touch in daily time
Transformed that night in face sublime.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

175

And now, to the Valley of the San Joaquin,
And the baby Lodge of Mineral King,
In a land once claimed by the rifle's ring,
We Masons turn our thoughts.
Grand Lodge opens and convenes
To Constitute a Lodge, it seems,
Of Master Masons true and right,
By dispensation 'til tonight.
At the gateway to Sequoia,
In the City of Visalia,
Where Masonic lore is very old,
Welcome to Masonic fold.
Brethren all, may I entreat you:
Noble thoughts and acts display
That our Order in its way,
May show the World, that in this day
Of strife and discord and contention,
There is a force with no dissension
In its ranks.
That temperance is an attribute
No good man should e'r refute,
And that fortitude is a strong man's way
Of advancing truth and men to sway
T award prudence, and the broader line
Of Justice and God's law divine.
And so, my brethren, in this hour of tension
Let us, in our Lodges, mention
The things that builders knew
Of square, and compass, and plumbline true
Which fashioned ashlars, and hearts anew,
For that task we now must face
To make this World the kind of place
The faith of our fathers held in view!
The oration was received with a standing ovation.
On motion of Past Grand Master Leon 0. Whitsell, the Grand
Secretary was authorized to have the oration printed and distributed to
the Lodges.

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CALIFORNIA
MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

IN REVIW

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is the seventh annual report submitted by this Special Committee on the Memorial Temple, and the fourth year it has been my privilege
to be its Chairman. It is the first report since the 1953 Communication
charged this Committee with the responsibility of doing all things necessary to finance and construct the "California Masonic Memorial Temple" on its property at California and Taylor Streets, San Francisco.
During this past year, your Committee has met at the call of the
Chairman. The formal meetings have averaged more than one a month
with the full Committee present in addition to many sub-committee
meetings called usually on short notice to endeavor to solve specific
problems.
In view of the increased tempo, the importance of every decision, and
the desire to have the combined thinking of the elected leaders of this
Grand Lodge as well as appointed members to the Committee, it has
been officially increased in size to include all elected Grand Lodge OfBcers and the five appointed members, namely, Brother 0. H. Fischer,
P. M. of Oak Grove Lodge No. 215: Brother John C. Bovey, P. M. of
Excelsior Lodge No. 166: Brother Arthur M. Warren, P. G. M. and
P. M. of Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481: Brother Paul Pflueger, Assistant
Grand Treasurer and P. M. of Amity Lodge No. 370 was appointed a
member of the Committee prior to the naming of all elected Grand Lodge
Officers to the Committee. Brother Harold Weber, P. M. of Chateau
Thierry Lodge No. 569, has been the Committee Coordinator and staff
representative since the start of the fund raising program. We on the
Special Committee consider all Campaign Directors, Campaign Workers, Supervisors, etc., official members of the Special Campaign Committee.
ARCHITECT'S MODEL

The architect's model of the Memorial Temple building, originally
on display for the first time at Grand Lodge in 1953, has been completely
refinished, to incorporate slight changes in building design approved by
the Committee. This will permit the brethren to see, in miniature, just
how this magnificent Memorial to our heroic Masonic war dead will
appear when it is constructed. The model will be on constant display
during the time of this Annual Communication, in the Memorial Temple
exhibit booth. Members of the Memorial Temple Campaign Committee
and staff will be present at the exhibit, prepared to answer questions and
to be helpful to Lodge Officers and Campaign Directors in any way
possible.

177

The report submitted at the last Annual Communication reviewed
the activities of the Committee to that date. It is requested that that
report be incorporated by reference as a part of this report for a complete
story on the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Your California Masonic Memorial Temple Committee made eight
specific recommendations which were all adopted by vote at the 1953
Annual Communication. Because of their importance and because it is
estimated that about 40% of those present are here for the first time, the
1953 recommendations are briefed here. They are as follows:
1. Adopted official name "California Masonic Memorial Temple."
2. Goal was set at "at least one day's pay" or average of not less
than $10.00 per member.
3. Provision was made to include new lodges.
4. The per capita tax of $1.00 per member per annum was made a
constitutional provision.
5. S~c. 100 ( b) was amended to provide $9.00 contribution by new
applicants for the construction of the "California Masonic Memorial Temple."
6. The architect was instructed to complete plans under direction of
the Committee.
7. The Committee was instructed to work out a plan for financing
the construction of the proposed "California Masonic Memorial
Temple" in line with the above recommendations.
8. To proceed with construction when such a plan received the approval of the Grand Master, the other elected Grand Lodge
officers, the Chairman of the Committeee on Finance and the
Chairman of the Committee on Lodge Financing.
Recommendations 1 to 5 inclusive have been effected. As of October
9, 1954, there were 49,431 members of California lodges who have paid
in cash $631,512.32, and pledged to pay $234.552.95 on or before May
1, 1956---a total of $866,065.27.
At this ,point, recognition and praise should be given to those brethren
who willingly dedicated themselves to a task that is actually taking much
longer than any of us ever dreamed, but who, at personal sacrifice in
some instances, are determined to see it through to a successful conclusion.
Your Committee is gratified at the success of the fund raising effort
to date. When it is considered that solicitation started slowly in late
February, and did not really get into full swing until the second half of
March, much has been accomplished.
In submitting this report, it is only fair to state that we on the -Special
Committee have experienced some disappointment in the progress or
lack of progress made by certain lodges. We are, however, most grate-

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ful for the sincere effort, enthusiastic support and effective leadership
evidenced by the majority of the lodges. There were some who, after
the close of the Annual Communication last year, had real doubts as to
the success of the program adopted. The record is conclusive evidence
that the policy adopted is not only Masonic, but is sound and practical.
Where committees have been formed and organization set up based on
the suggestions in "Your Campaign Handbook" supported by reasonable and enthusiastic follow-through, the results have been most gratify..
ing. Conclusive proof is that lodges of all sizes have produced phenom•
enal results, ranging from no report from 25 lodges aggregating approximately 4,000 members, to an average of over $10.00 per member from
47 lodges, the high to date is an average of $26.18 per member for the
top lodge. For further details, see the special Grand Lodge Week Campaign Bulletin.
PROGRESS REPORT

Soon after the purchase of the Temple site, a complete topographical
survey was made. Following the completion of this survey, test borings
were sunk at 17 locations on the property for the purpose of determining
as closely as possible the underlying rock contours. These borings dis·
closed that the solid rock follows the surface contours fairly close, so
that the original intention to build the Temple on solid rock can be
accomplished without added cost.
The architectural studies consisting of 22 large sheets of drawings .
hav.e been completed. At the numerous meetings of the Committee,
changes and improvements were suggested by the Committee as a whole
to the point where the design and the plans are essentially fixed. Studies
have been prepared by the structural engineers coincidental with the
preparation of the architectural studies. Likewise, preliminary studies
have been completed on the intricate mechanical systems which will
supply the ventilation and the cooling in the various areas.
A competent acoustical engineer has been engaged to work with the
architect for the purpose of achieving perfection in oratory acoustics.
These studies have also given consideration to proper acoustics for sym ...
phony and music to the end that the acoustics in the main auditorium of
the Temple will be equal to or excel in quality the noted auditoriums of
this country and of the continent of Europe.
,.
Sight lines and seating plans have been studied and changed from
time to time to insure a perfect vista of the work flow from every one of
the 3,200 opera chairs in both the balcony and the main floor of the auditorium. It has been further decided that the garage under the building
shall house approximately 450 automobiles arranged so that either
attendant or customer parking can be invoked. .
In the selection o'f materials, permanency has been the guiding factor.
Tentatively, it has been decided to use white Vermont marble on the
exterior facades, duplicating the material used on the Lincoln and Jeffer...

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

179

son Memorials in the Nation's Capital. The plans for the offices include
adequate facilities for the Grand Lodge, Masonic Homes, the Grand
Master, the staff and committee rooms for the convenience of Grand
Lodge members and Grand Lodge Committees.
In order to complete and dedicate this Memorial Building in October
of any year, the studies must be transformed into working plans so that
contracts may be let not later than May of the preceding year, and the
structural steel for the frame must be ready for fabrication and erection
by October 1st of the preceding year.
The design theory has been to produce a functional as well as a
beautiful building in no stylized tradition or cliche, as a fitting memorial
tribute to those Masons who made the supreme sacrifice in the last three
world catastrophes.
TAX STATUS

There has been created a non-profit corporation, as authorized by the
1953 Session of Grand Lodge and the present organizational plans call
for this corporation to function as set forth in its Articles of lncorpora...
tion and By-Laws. Applications for tax exemptions to the State and Federal officials have been made and it is intended that title to the site of the
Memorial Temple property be transferred to the California Masonic
Memorial Temple Corporation when, as and if the exemption status is
clarified, but in no event will the title be vested in the Masonic Homes
of California.
REACHING THE MEMBERS

The only•way the general membership may be reached is through
the lodges. The Grand Lodge office does not keep current addresses of
all members. The job of producing brochures and other material for
all the members in California takes from a few days up to three weeks.
Mention made here is not to make excuses, but to impress on you, the
1954 leaders in Masonry, the size of the undertaking, and to solicit your
continued support.
COST OF THE CAMPAIGN

At the conclusion of Grand Lodge in 1953, your Committee started
carrying out the policies adopted at that session. The task of educating
all Masons, members of California lodges, on the task before us was
and is tremendous. We had no pattern to follow. We had to rely on
the enthusiastic support of the leaders in the several lodges. In laying
out the program, we tried to keep uppermost in our mind that it is your
money the Committee is spending-hen ce our desire to do the job on
the most conservative budget possible.
Through july 31, 1954, your Committee has expended a total of
$41,795.06, as certified hy the audit report. From August 1 to the present
time, it is estimated that we have incurred additional expenses aggregat...
ing $13,264.18. This has been paid out of Grand Lodge reserves.

180

181

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OuR GoAL-WHAT Is IT?
ONE DA Y's WORK OR ITS EQUIVALENT

taken time for some of them to recognize the importance and relationship of Grand Lodge to the individual Mason, but this recognition is
gradually becoming more evident.
Pride in and love for his Fraternity, and his desire to see his Grand
Lodge adequately and appropriately housed in its own home, have helped
to bring about this increase in interest, reflected in the new gifts being
received. When the Temple is built, it will be more than a home. It will
be a symbol of all those ideals of freedom forecast by our country's
founding fathers when they wrote the Declaration of Independence, and
were then re~affirmed in the establishment of our nation's constitution.
The Temple will be a house built with hands, high upon a commanding
hilltop-a perpetual symbol of all that Masonry means to us.
The Memorial Temple, symbol of America's great heritage of freedom, will grace its magnificent site on Nob Hill as an outstanding beacon,
spreading the light of Masonry throughout the great Pacific area and
the world, where all may see. Slowly but steadily, dollar by dollar, stone
by stone, our program is making progress.
In the words of our Grand Master, "THE TEMPLE WILL BE
BUILT!"
Your continued interest, support, cooperation and gifts will hasten
the day when the actual construction can be started. For the Committee,
I wish again to express our appreciation for the loyal and devoted service
of our Grand Lodge Officers, our Lodge Officers, Campaign Directors,
Division Officers, District Supervisors, and all those who have worked
so long and so hard on the Memorial Temple fund-raising program
these past mon"ths. We know the problems you have faced and solved.
We have faced similar problems in making our campaign plans. We
have seen Masonry at work!
In view of the mounting interest in this campaign, the many requests
of the brethren to have the campaign extended, and the keen desire on
the part of California Masonry to co:qiplete the job at the earliest date
possible, your Special Committee on the California Masonic Memorial
Temple recommends for adoption:
1. That in pursuance of the plan of financing as heretofore
adopted by this Grand Lodge, that the campaign be extended to the
close of the fiscal year July 31. 1955, and that the Memorial Temple
Committee be continued for that purpose.
2. That a minimum goal of an average of $10.00 per member of
voluntary contribution be fixed as the lodge goal for each constituent
lodge, based on membership as of July 31, 1955.
3. That in pursuance of the plan for the building, maintenance and
operation of a Memorial Temple, that the Grand Lodge, by and through
the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary, sub'ject to the prior approval
of the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master, the Grand Treasurer,

Since it is obvious that we can't all actually do a day's work on the
proposed Temple, it is contemplated that all Masons in California would
do their "day's labor" at their usual vocation, and contribute "its equiva~
lent." If this were taken literally, we could do as was suggested, "Be
interested in building, but build without interest." Our goal is still "At
least one day's work or its equivalent.'' To repeat, this is the goal
adopted last year by this Grand Lodge, and until it is changed or amend~
ed by this Grand Lodge, it will remain the goal.
FINANCIAL RESULTS TO DATE

War Relief Fund -------------------------------·--------~-------------------------$ 158,507.H
5,957.93
Centennial Fund ---···-·--··---··--·-···-····---·---·---·-·----·------····--·--·---25,000.00
Morton Bequest ------···---·--·-·-···--··----··-···-----····-·················-······
1952 Annual Return
.50
$102,635.00
1953 Annual Return -·-··-············-··· 1.00
210,819.00
1954 Annual Return ...................... 1.00
216,347.00
1954 $9.00 Contribution .---·---·-·····
54,243.00

----·-------·-···--·$

Contributions to date .......................................:..

584,044.00
866,065.27
$1,639,574.64

Brethren of the Grand Lodge, · may I say for the purpose of record,
as respects what this Committee intends to do, as regards the assets of
the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, that this Committee does not
now intend, and the Committee is on record publicly that we do not in
the future intend, to request the use of assets of the Masonic Homes
Endowment Fund or of any other Fund of the Homes, for the purpose
of building the proposed California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Before submitting the recommendations of our Committee, may I
express publicly to my fellow committeemen, to you, and through you
to the brethren of California Masonry, my appreciation of the wonderful
support that has been given this effort. This has been truly a committee
effort, hard work, trying at times, but most satisfying.
To our Coordinator, and the two efficient ladies on his staff, our
sincere appreciation for their willingneess to work long hours to have
information available when needed, and to the Most Worshipful Grand
Master for his patience and wise counsel, the gratitude of all Masons in
California.
As has been said before, this is thee first time in Masonry's 104
years in the California Grand Lodge jurisdiction that the brethren have
been given the privilege to contribute to a Grand Lodge home. It has

182

183

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, may sell at the best
price obtainable, when in their judgment the time is opportune, the stock
w:hich the Grand Lodge presently owns in the corporation holding title
to the Grand Lodge's present location at No. 25 Van Ness Avenue, San
Francisco, California.
4. That through the cooperative effort of the Inspectors, Lodge
Officers, Past Masters and Lodge Committeemen, a careful review be
made of the status of the campaign in each Lodge, with the ideas of
renewed effort, and bring the campaign to a successful conclusion at the
earliest date in each lodge.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, I move adoption of this report.
EDWARD H. SIEMS
OTTO H. FISCHijR

These activities included:
1. Active Sojourners Committee within the lodge
2. Continuing contact with previous visitors
3. Bulletins mailed to Sojourners
4. Sojourners dinner
5. Special aprons and insignias
6. Talks by Grand Lodge Committeemen
Because any success of the Sojourners Committee is the result of the
individual lodge efforts, it is recommended that a word of appreciation
be given to those lodges actively supporting this program.
During the next Masonic year, each lodge should be encouraged to
continue and expand their efforts in this worthwhile cause.
The Chairman and Committee members desire to thank Grand Master Frank Harwell and the members of Grand Lodge for the exceptional
spirit of cooperation extended to us during the recent Masonic year.
Thank you for the opportunity given us to render Masonic service.
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, Chairman

}OHN C. BOVEY
ARTHUR M. WARREN
PAUL A. PFLUEGER

Ref erred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes.

SOJOURNERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is the third year for the Sojourners Committee of Grand Lodge
to be functioning in the State of California.
California's •population continues to expand. Estimates of new permanent residents to come into our State exceed 10,000 per week. Statistics indicate that one out of every H persons is a Mason. Thus, we
have an annual group of over I 0,000 new Masons to bring into California
Masonry. Eligible members of our fraternity should be encouraged to
become California Masons. During the recent Masonic year approximately 1000 Masons holding membership out of the State became California Masons.
During the recent Masonic year your Sojourners Committee held
meetings in San Francisco, Riverside, Long Beach and Los Angeles for
the pur.pose of combining ideas and plans for the future activities of your
Sojourners Committee. Also, during the past year, the Grand Master
issued a letter to all lodges on the subject of Sojourners. In addition,
each lodge was furnished a series of "Assists" for Masters and lodge
committee chairmen. These "Assists" were gratefully received by the
lodges and put to immediate use.
As a result of this activity every California lodge developed considerable interest in the Sojourner program. Questionnaires distributed by
your Sojourner Committee indicated many blue lodge activities under
way to encourage out of state Masons to become afflliated with a California Masonic Lodge.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing respectfully submits its report for the 1953-1954 Masonic year.
That Mas6nry is really on the march in this grand jurisdiction of
ours is indicated by the fact that fifteen Masonic Lodges in California
have applied for and received consent from your Committee on Lodge
Financing to begin construction of new Masonic temples during the past
Masonic year.
The Lodges participating in this building program are: Rio Vista
Lodge No. 208, Rio Vista: Lexington Lodge No. 104, El Monte; Wasco
Lodge No. 583, Wasco; North Butte Lodge No. 230, Gridley: York
Lodge No. 273, Walnut Park: Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652, Montrose; Anchor Lodge No. 273, Compton; Los Gatos Lodge No. 292, Los
Gatos; Fort Crook Lodge No. 575, Fall River Mills; San Fernando
Lodge No. 343, San Fernando; Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, Fruitvale;
Seafaring Lodge No. 708, Newport Beach; Gardena Lodge No. 372,
Gardena; Valley Forge Lodge No. 587 and West Adams Lodge No.
565, Los Angeles.
All of these new temples are of the single-purpose type, most of
them one story in height, represent an over-all value of land and buildings of two million dollars. and constitute in numbers the greatest
Masonic temple building program ever attempted in one year in the long
history of California Masonry.

185

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

While it is comparatively easy to estimate the value of these properties in dollars and cents, the spiritual values cannot be counted. The
sacrifice of time and effort, the heart and soul the members of the various
Lodges build into these beautiful edifices with their own hands, render
them precious beyond our ability to evaluate.
These new Masonic temples, which will be entirely free from outside indebtedness when completed: represent great contributions to the
individual Lodges, to Masonry generally, and particularly to the respective communities, to the State and to the Nation. Your Committee on
Lodge Financing is convinced that these new Masonic temples will all
become strong reinforcements in the structure which is America, convenient rallying places for men and women who are interested in keeping our Country strong and safe and free.
Many members of Grand Lodge have already visited the exhibit
prepared by your Committee on Lodge Financing with the help of all
the Lodges represented. The exhibit located in the lobby of this auditorium is a display of the new Masonic temples which have been built
in California since the end of World War II, and was designed to stimulate the construction of new Masonic temples throughout the length
and breadth of this jurisdiction, temples so vitally needed to keep
Masonry in step with the progress of California. Your Committee on
Lodge Financing commends to the representatives of the constituent
Lodges here assembled the thought that what so many Masons have
done others can do.
Your Committee on Lodge Financing has during the past Masonic
year approved the acquisition of future Masonic temple building sites by
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, San Pedro Lodge No. 332, Unity Lodge No.
368, Gardena Lodge No. 372, Porterville Lodge No. 303, Sojourner
Lodge No. 607, Seafaring Lodge No. 708, Norwalk Lodge No. 315,
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587, America Lodge No. 475, Suisun Lodge
No. 55 and Atwater Lodge No. 622. Masonic Temples are already being
built on several of these new temple sites, and others will undoubtedly
be started in the not too distant future.
Your Committee on Lodge Financing has this year consented to the
incorporation of twelve new Masonic temple associations under the nonprofit laws of the State of California by Lodges all over the state. These
corporations are formed for the purpose of holding title to and the operation of Lodge property and as a vehicle for raising funds for the purpose of building new Masonic temples.
Your Committee on Lodge Financing held a two day meeting in Los
Angeles on Saturday and Sunday, February 20 and 21, 1954. The
following Committee Members were present: E. J. Blickfeldt, E. H.
Phillips, G. C. Holbert, H. N. Richards, D. R. Purcell, W. J. Pybon
and M. A. Green. The meeting was a very busy and successful one.

Representatives of Norwalk Lodge No. 315, Gardena Lodge No. 372,
Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652, Seafaring Lodge No. 708, Belmont
Lodge No. 716, Golden State Lodge No. 358, San Antonio Lodge No.
694, Valley Forge Lodge No. 587, Moneta Lodge No. 405, America
Lodge No. 475, Craftsman Lodge No. 559, West Adams Lodge No. 565,
Anchor Lodge No. 273, Maricopa Lodge No. 434, San Bernardino
~dge
348 and Phoenix Lodge No. 178, appeared to discuss Lodge
Fmancmg problems and to present applications for the Committee's
consideration. Nearly one hundred representatives of the various
Lodges attended the meetings, fourteen of them coming from as far
away as Maricopa, attesting to the intense interest prevalent in this
phase of Masonic endeavors. The Committee is again indebted to
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625 for the use of its beautiful temple, wherein
these meetings were conducted.
·
Because some confusion has developed in the minds of representatives of various Lodges in connection with Section 78 of the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge, the Committee on Lodge Financing offers the following
amendments merely to clarify the section:
"Section 78. No Lodge, temple association, Lodge Trustees Committee, association, partnership or corporation, representing itself as
Masonic in character or operating for the benefit of a Masonic Lodge or
Lodges, Masonry or Masons, shall und.ertake any plan, scheme, project
or method whereby:
1. Real property is to be purchased, or
2. Leased for more than three years, or
3. A Masonic temple is to be erected or altered whereby the total
expenditure will exceed the sum of $2,500.00.
without first obtaining the written approval of the Committee on Lodge
Financing."
Your Committeee on Lodge Financing believes it has a responsibility
to the Masonic Lodges and Masonic Temple Associations in California
which own and operate real property to assist and cooperate in every
possible way to see to it that such properties are administered in an
efficient and business~like manner. Many temple properties have been
operated without much regard to operating income and expense, and as
a result are a constant and heavy financial burden on the Lodge or
Lodges controlling them. A perfect example of what happens when
temple properties are run in a haphazard manner concerns a Lodge in
California which owns a commercial type Masonic temple operated by
a temple association. This property has been owned free and clear of
debt for many years, is located on a principal corner and has enjoyed
one hundred per cent occupancy of the commercial portion of the temple
in a community which has grown and prospered greatly during the past
fifteen years. Recently the temple association was faced with the problem of spending approximately $50,000.00 to make the property earth-

184

!'lo·

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

quake safe. Financial statements indicated no surplus funds in the Lodge
and only $15,000.00 available in the temple association. To perform the
work necessary to render the temple safe, collateral financing in the
amount of $35,000.00 would be required. In reviewing the operating
statement which accompanied the application submitted to the Committee on Lodge financing, the totally unrealistic approach by the temple
board of directors to the income of the Lodge quarters was apparent.
One affiliated organization paid only $25.00 per year for use of the
Lodge quarters, and at the time the operating statement was prepared
this organization was two years in arrears, owing the temple association
the sum of $50.00. Other groups using the lodge facilities were charged
only nominal rentals, including the Lodge itself.
Your Committee on Lodge Financing is concerned over the possibility that the administration of some of the beautiful new temples which
are being built today in California may fall into a similar pattern. To
guard against such an eventuality a review of the annual profit and loss
statements of the lodges which own and operate Masonic temple properties and Masonic temple associations in which Lodge property is
vested, will enable your Committee on Lodge Financing to render a real
service in helping to keep the respective temple properties in a solvent
condition. To that end the Committee proposes the following Section
be added to the Ordinances of Grand Lodge:
"Section 78a. All Masonic Lodges owning and operating real property and all Masonic temple associations operating real property and
controlled by a Masonic Lodge or Lodges, shall submit an annual profit
and loss statement to the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing.
Such profit and loss statement to be submitted at the close of each fiscal
year of such Lodge or Temple Association."
More than two hundred Masonic Lodges in California have incorporated temple corporations during the past six or seven years, pursuant
to Section 151 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge, for the specific purposes set forth in that Section. It has come to the attention of your
Committee on Lodge Financing that several organizations have been
incorporated by Masonic Lodges or clubs or other organizations using
the name Masonry or Masonic in which the Articles of Incorporation
set forth different purposes than those contained in Section 151 of the
Ordinances of Grand Lodge. It is the contention of the Committee on
Lodge Financing that such corporations conflict with the Ordinances of
Grand Lodge and render them ineligible to receive investments of Lodge
funds pursuant to Section 152 of said Ordinances. Many requests have
been received asking approval by the Committee on Lodge Financing
to amend the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of these corporations, providing for control by the Lodge. Your Committee on Lodge
Financing believes much confusion and misunderstanding can be averted
by amending Section 151 to read as follows:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

187

"Section 151. A Lodge must retain the control of its own funds and
property. It may deposit its funds in a sound and reputable bank or
banks. It may. after receiving consent from the Grand Lodge Committee
on Lodge Financing, cause a corporation to be organized for the purpose
of purchasing, erecting or maintaining and holding title to real estate
for a temple or Lodge use and purposes and a Lodge or Lodges may hold
shares of stock in such corporation. Space in such temple may be rented
for mercantile and other uses consistent with the purposes of the corporation so organized."
Your Committee on Lodge Financing has given consideration to more
applications during the past Masonic year than in any previous period.
As in past years, after your Committee has acted upon an application,
a complete file on each case, including all the details of the request, necessary resolutions, financial statements, comments by Committee members,
together with a copy of written consent, is filed in the Grand Secretary's
office, as part of the records of the Grand Lodge.
A resume of the activities of your Committee on Lodge Financing
during the past year follows:
Downey Lodge No. 220 granted consent to expend not to exceed
$5,000.00 to repair and redecorate the Masonic temple building in Downey.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 granted consent to incorporate the Healdsburg Masonic Temple Association and permission was granted to Sotoyome Lodge to purchase a Regular Membership in the said association.
Rio Vista Lodge No. 208 granted consent to invest $25 ,000.00 from
Lodge generaf funds in a Regular Membership of the Rio Vista Masonic
Temple Association and consent was granted to Rio Vista Masonic
Temple Association to begin construction of a new Masonic Temple in
Rio Vista.
.
Turlock Lodge No. 395 was granted consent to purchase 200 shares
of stock of the Masonic Temple Association of Turlock for a sum not
to exceed $7,500.00 from general funds of the Lodge, and the Masonic
Temple Association of Turlock was granted consent to borrow $15,000.00 to be secured by a first deed of trust and to be repaid over a
reasonable period of time, the money to be used to purchase 400 shares
of temple stock still outstanding.
Delano Lodge No. 309 and the Delano Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to borrow not to exceed $35,000.00 bearing interest at
the rate of 5% per annum to be repaid within eight years or less and
secured by a first deed of trust on the temple property, the funds to be
used to repair, alter and make safe the Masonic Temple building in
Delano.
Crescent Lodge No. 45 granted consent to transfer to the Crescent
Temple Association title to all real property owned by the Lodge, granted consent to invest $35,000.00 from the general funds of the Lodge in

189

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a Regular Membership of the said Crescent Temple Association, and
consent granted to the temple association to begin construction of a new
Masonic Temple in Crescent City.
Eel River Lodge No. 147 granted consent to expend $10,000.00 to
renovate and modernize the temple property in Fortuna, the expenditure
to be financed from Lodge general funds in the amount of $5,000.00,
the .balance to be spent by the tenant of the first floor portion of the build ..
ing, to be amortized through reduced rental over a reasonable period of
time.
Lexington Lodge No. 104 and the El Monte Masonic Temple Asso.ciation granted ·consent to begin construction of a new Masonic Temple
in El Monte.
Wasco Lodge No. 583 granted consent to transfer title to all real
property owned by the Lodge to the Wasco Masonic Building Asso..
ciation and $30,000.00 from the general funds of the Lodge for a Regular
Membership in the Wasco Masonic Building Association, and consent
was granted to the said Masonic building association to commence construction of a new Masonic Temple in Wasco.
Indian Wells Lodge No. 691 granted consent to expend not more
than $6,000.00 from Lodge general funds to install a new roof and make
certain repairs to the Masonic temple building in China Lake.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 and the Masonic Temple Association of
Fruitvale granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site
in Fruitvale for a sum not to exceed $26,600.00.
Garden Grove Lodge No. 586 and Garden Grove Masonic Temple
Association granted consent to purchase an improved property adjoin.ing the Masonic temple in Garden Grove for a sum not to exceed
$9,000.00.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655 granted consent to invest $3,000.00
from the general funds of the Lodge in Regular Memberships of the
Monte Vista Masonic Temple Association, the money to be used to aid
in the completion of a new Masonic Temple in North Long Beach.
North Butte Lodge No. 230 and the North Butte Masonic Temple
Association granted consent to .borrow $6,000.00 from Brother Kristian
Jacobsen to be repaid at the rate of $100.00 per month plus interest at
4 %, the money to be used to complete the new Masonic temple building
in Gridley.
Truckee Lodge No. 200 and Truckee Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to borrow $7,500.00 from the Bank of America to be
repaid at the rate of $65.00 per month or more. The money is to be used
to purchase a certain property over which a portion of the Masonic Tem.1ple in Truckee was built many years ago.
North Hollywood Lodge No. 542 granted consent to invest $7,500.00
from general Lodge funds in the North Hollywood Masonic Temple

Association, the money to be used for the purpose of acquiring a lot
adjoining the temple property on the north, in the city of North Holly..
wood.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 granted consent to incorporate the Los
Angeles Masonic Building Association, and consent was granted to the
Lodge to transfer title to real estate and stock in a temple corporation
now owned by Los Angeles Lodge to the said temple association.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293 granted consent to incorporate under
the non-profit laws of California the Masonic Temple Association of
Orange. The plan to exchange corporate notes in the new non-profit
corporation for those in the old stock corporation was also approved.
San Pedro Lodge No. 332 granted consent to invest an additional
$8,000.00 in the New San Pedro Masonic Temple Association for the
purpose of acquiring a new Masonic temple building site in the City of
·
San Pedro.
granted consent to transfer title to real property
423
No.
York Lodge
on Seville Avenue in Huntington Park to the York Masonic Temple
Association for $13,000.00 in Regular Memberships of said association,
granted consent to invest from Lodge general funds $25,000.00 in regular memberships of _the Association, and consent granted to the York
Masonic Temple Association to begin construction of a new Masonic
temple in Huntington Park.
Lake Tahoe Lodge No. 707 granted consent to incorporate the Lake
Tahoe Masonic Temple Association, and consent granted to the Lodge
to invest $100.00 from the general funds in a regular membership of the
association.
Unity Lodge No. 368 granted· consent to invest $22,500 from Lodge
general funds in Regular Memberships of the Unity Masonic Temple
Association, and the Unity Masonic Temple Association was granted
consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site in Glendale for the
sum of $22,500.00.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322 granted consent to invest $10,000.00 from
Lodge general funds in a Regular Membership of the Alhambra Masonic
Temple Association. It is understood the funds are to be used by the
Temple corporation to carry on the normal operations of the Temple
property and for preliminaries in connection with a proposed new temple building.
Reading Lodge No. 254 granted consent to loan to the Shasta Masonic Temple Association the sum of $5,000.00 to be secured by a deed
of trust, bearing interest at the rate of 4%, to be repaid within one year.
The money to be used to modernize and improve the temple property.
Gardena Lodge No. 372 and Gardena Masonic Temple Association
granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site in the City
of Gardena for a sum not to exceed $8,500.00 plus escrow fees.
Castro Valley Lodge No. 713 granted consent to invest $1,500.00

188

190

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

from Lodge general funds in a regular membership of the Castro Valley
Masonic Temple Association, and consent was granted to Castro Valley
Masonic Temple Association to purchase an improved property in
Castro Valley to be used as Lodge quarters, for a sum not to exceed
$17,000.00.
Marin Lodge No. 191 granted consent to incorporate the Marin
Masonic Building Association under the non-profit laws of the State of
California.
Caledonia Lodge No. 486 granted consent to purchase 750 shares of
Caledonia Masonic Building Association stock for the sum of $7,500.00,
the money to be used to enlarge the dining room area of the Caledonia
Masonic temple building in Bakersfield.
Porterville Lodge No. 303 and Porterville Masonic Temple Association granted consent to purchase four lots in the City of Porterville to
be used as a new Masonic temple building site for the sum of $8,500.00.
Vesper Lodge No. 84 granted consent to expend not more than
$3,500.00 to install a refrigeration type cooling system in the Vesper
Masonic temple in Red Bluff.
Sojourner Lodge No. 607 granted consent to incorporate the Sojourner Masonic Temple Association; to invest $500.00 from the general
funds of Sojourner Lodge in a Regular Membership of the said Masonic
Temple association; and grants consent to the Sojourner Masonic Temple Association to accept title to a certain piece of real estate donated
by a brother, all expenses of the transfer of title to be paid by Sojourner
Masonic Temple Association.
Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652 and Crescenta Valley Temple
Association granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic
Temple in the City of Montrose.
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30 and Taraval Masonic Temple Association granted consent to expend not to exceed $7,000.00 to install a new
heating and ventilating system in the Taraval Masonic temple in San
Francisco.
Seafaring Lodge No. 708 and Seafaring Masonic Building Association granted consent to negotiate a lease for a Masonic temple building
site in Newport Beach between Earl W. Stanley and Mildred Stanley
and Seafaring Masonic Building Association for the term of fifty-five
years at one dollar per year rental. plus all taxes and assessments levied
against the property and any improvements which may be placed thereon
by the lessee.
Fairfax Lodge No. 556 granted consent to loan to the Fairfax
Masonic Temple Association the sum of $5,000.00 from Lodge general
funds, and evidenced by a note issued by the temple association to Fairfax Lodge, the money to be used to aid in the completion of the new
temple in Larkspur.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

191

West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373 granted consent to invest $1,000.00
from Lodge general funds in a Regular Membership of the 373 Builders
Club, Inc.
Burbank Lodge No. 406 granted consent to loan $8,000.00 to the
Burbank Masonic Building Association secured by a promissory note,
the money to be used for the purpose of retiring the outstanding indebtedness against the Temple property.
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579 granted consent to transfer
$2,500.00 from the general fund of the Lodge to the Masonic Hall
Association of North Sacramento, the money to be used to further reduce
the outstanding indebtedness against the temple property.
Norwalk Lodge No. 315 granted consent to purchase a Masonic
temple building site in Norwalk for a sum not to exceed $6,000.00 plus
escrow fees.
Anchor Lodge No. 273 granted consent to purchase from Lodge
general funds $35,000.00 worth of Contributing Memberships in Anchor,
Incorporated, and Anchor, Incorporated granted consent to commence
construction of a new Masonic Temple in Compton.
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587 and Valley Forge Masonic Temple
Association granted consent to purchase a Masonic temple building site
in the City of Los Angeles for the sum of $22,500.00.
-San Antonio Lodge No. 694 granted consent to incorporate the San
Antonio Masonic Temple Association; granted consent to invest $100.00
from Lodge general funds in a Reegular Membership of the said association.
Gardena Lodge No. 372 granted consent to incorporate the Gardena
Masonic Temple Association: granted consent to dissolve the Cinosam
Temple Association: granted consent to transfer assets of Cinosam Temple Association to Gardena Masonic Temple Association in exchange
for a Regular Membership in the said association.
Ascot Lodge No. 528 granted approval of the By-Laws of the Ascot
Masonic Building Association.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292 granted consent to transfer $2,400.00
from general funds of the Lodge and transfer of title to certain real
estate owned by the Lodge and valued at $6,600.00 to the Los Gatos
Masonic Hall Corporation in exchange for a Regular Membership in the
amount of $9,000.00. Los Gatos Masonic Hall Corporation granted
consent to commence construction of a new Masonic temple in Los Gatos.
Martinez Lodge No. 41 granted consent to expend $4,125.00 from
Lodge general funds to make extensive repairs to the Temple building in
Martinez.
Trana Lodge No. 684 granted consent to incorporate the Trona
Masonic Building Association; also granted consent to invest $2,000.00
from Lodge general funds in a Regular Membership of the building
association.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

194

195

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Seafaring Lodge No. 708 granted consent to invest from Lodge
general funds $3,500.00 in a Regular Membership of the Seaf~g
Masonic Building Association: and consent granted to the Seafanng
Building Association to commence construction of a new Masonic temple
·
in Newport Beach.
Suisun Lodge No. 55 granted consent to invest from Lodge general
funds $4,500.00 in a Regular Membership of the Fairfield Suisun Ma·
sonic Building Association: and consent granted to F~r~eld-S.uis~n
Masonic Building Association to purchase a temple building site m
Fairfield for a sum not to exceed $4,500.00 plus usual escrow fees.
. West Gate Lodge No. 335 granted consent to loan to the West Gate
Building Corporation a sum not to exceed $15.000.00 to be secured by
a first deed of trust. to be repaid at the rate of $110.96 or more per month
including interest at the rate of 4% per annum. The money to be used
to install an elevator in the temple property in Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652 granted consent to transfer from
Lodge general fund $10,000.00 to the Crescenta Valley Temple Asso•
ciation in exchange for a Regular Membership in said association, the
money to be used to help in the completion of the new Masonic temple
in Montrose.
Gardena Lodge No. 372 and the Gardena Masonic Temple Associa·
tion granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic temple
in Gardena.
Rosemead Lodge No. 702 granted consent to incorporate the Rose·
mead Masonic Building Association: grants consent to Rosemead Lodge
to invest $250.00 from Lodge general funds in a Regular Membership
of the said association.
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587, West Adams Lodge No. 565, and the
Valley Forge Masonic Building Association granted consent to com·
mence construction of a new Masonic temple in the new Crenshaw
shopping center in the City of Los Angeles.
Willow Glen Lodge No. 676 granted consent to incorporate the
Willow Glen Masonic Temple Association; and Willow Glen Lodge
granted consent to invest $200.00 from Lodge general funds in a Regular
Membership of the said association. ·
University Lodge No. 394 granted consent to purchase 458 shares
of University Masonic Temple Association stock at $35.00 per share
and $6,500.00 worth of notes owned by Vermont Square Lodge, for a
total sum of $22,500.00. University Lodge was granted consent to
expend $10,000.00 now available in the Lodge general funds, and Uni·
versity Masonic Temple Association was granted consent to borrow
$12,500.00 from members of the Lodge to be secured by open promissory
notes bearing interest at the rate of 5% and to be repaid within a reason·
able period of time out of income from the temple property.
Your Committee on Lodge Financing recommends that an appropri•

ation of $1,350.00 be made to cover necessary expenses of the Committee
for the ensuing Masonic year.
Your Committee on Lodge Financing would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of all the Lodges who so graciously cooperated with the Committee in making the exhibit on display in the
auditorium possible.
Your Committee would like at this time to acknowledge the wholehearted cooperation of the Grand Secretary and his efficient office staff.
Their advice and assistance in all matters pertaining to Lodge Financing
has meant so much in lifting some of the burden the work entails.
Deep appreciation is hereby expressed to the Grand Master, Frank
Harwell, Jr., who has taken such an interest in the work of the Committee during his tenure in Grand Lodge and particularly during the
past year, and for the public recognition he has given to the Committee
on many occasions. ·
Your Committee on Lodge Financing owes a particular debt to the
corps of Masonic inspectors, without whose co-operation and assistance
such success as has been attained could not have been accomplished.
The Committee wishes to express its profound thanks to those inspectors
for their help and their unselfish devotion to Masonry.
Your Com.mi~tee on Lodge Financing wishes to pay tribute to the
representative leaders of organized labor for their cooperation in the
building of many new Masonic temples in this state by donated volunteer
labor. These leaders not only approve this type of operative Masonry,
but have encoµraged many workers to go to the scene of the building
operations, and these workers have contributed their labor, their support
and their money.
Enough cannot be said for the laborers on the temples. Their unselfish sacrifices of time and substance and energy. their enthusiasm and
optimism, their faith and courage have builded the temples. Their works
will live as long as Masonry shall survive. They are blessed of God
and are surely entitled to a special niche in the Grand Design.
Respectfully submitted

E. J. BLICKPELD
E. H. PHILLIPS
D. R. PURCELL
W. J. PYBON
G. C. HOLBERT
C. T. DuPPY

M.A. GREEN
H. N. RICHARDS
R. E. FITES
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes.

196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON CORRESPO NDENCE

and ~ill neglect to s~nd ~n their subscription. It will require lots of work
to build up an organtzation of subscription solicitors so that each Lodge
may hav~ such a ~epresentative. The handling of the subscription remittances will also increase the clerical work in the office of the Grand
Secretary.
~me of the questionnaire postcards urged that a copy of the California Freemason be mailed to all California Masons, the cost to be borne
by Grand Lodge or be collected from the constituent lodges who could
pay it from the lodge's general fund or levy the charge on its members.
. The cost of such a program was explored and it was found that the
umt cost decreases tremendously for a large printing. Attached to this
rep?rt is a prop?sal from a large concern that prints Time, Life and other
national magazm.es. T~e annual unit cost of a quarterly mailed to each
of our members, including the cost of keeping the mailing list up to date
·
as as follows:
Cost of p rintin g -·-·---··-·-·-·--·-----------··----·------------- --·-- --· .1136
~ost of addressing and mailing per year.................... .0465
ost of postage 4 issues............................................ .06

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Correspondenc e Committee has as in years past reviewed the
proceedings of other grand jurisdictions both in the United States and
in foreign countries. These reviews have been published quarterly in
"The California Freemason" which the committee issues. This magazine
also carries messages from the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary, the
California Masonic Memorial Temple Association and prints various
articles about the activities of Grand Lodge.
This plan was instituted by the Grand Master, Most Worshipful
Frank Harwell, Jr., partly to permit a timely distribution of the report
of the Correspondenc e Committee and partly as an experiment to ascertain if there is an existing demand for a Grand Lodge publication. The
quarterly publication also served as a trial run to see if such a publication
can be successfully edited and be made interesting.
Each quarter 20,000 copies are printed. These are mailed to each
officer of Grand Lodge, each committeeman and inspector. The remainder of the copies are distributed pro rata to each Lodge, the copies
being mailed in bulk to the Master and the Secretary.
Return postcards were enclosed in the summer issue and over 1500
of these questionnaires were returned to the Grand Secretary. The cards
were sorted and classified and indicated that 99% desire to see the
"California Freemason" continue publication and only 1% think it
should be discontinued.
Nearly 90% of those who sent in replie~ ex·p ressed their willingness
to pay an annual sll'bscription if they could receive the quarterly by mail.
The remaining 9% who desired the continuation of the magazine wanted
to know what a subscription would cost or said that they thought the
present method of distributing through the secretaries is satisfactory.
The present annual unit cost for 20,000 copies if sent out on sub. scriptions is as follows:
Cost of printing ------··----------------- -------------····-----·-·---·-··· .2666
Cost of addressing and mailing per year.................... .141 7
Cost of postage 4 issues......;....................................... .06
.4683
Cost of each subscription serviced:
Estimated clerical and editorial ex.p ense.......... ,.......... 0317
Necessary subscription charge -·----·-·----··------·-··------··· .50
The subscription charge of .fifty cents a year is not large but it will
to obtain a sufficient number of subscriptions to put the plan
difficult
be
into operation. Many who are inclined to subscribe will procrastinate

197

Cost of each subscription serviced.............................2201
Estimated clerical and editorial ex.pense_ ...............___ .0299
Cost of sending the quarterly to each member.......... .25
The Committee recommends that the publication of "The California
Freemason" be continued during the next .fiscal year under the same plan
~s has been followe~ during the past year, but that if possible the incomlD~ Grand Ma~ter inaugurate a plan for individual subscriptions, which
will pay a portion of the cost of publication which has been determined
at $8,000.00 a year. This cost may ·be reduced by the net sum collected
for subscriptions •
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the publication by the Correspondenc e Committee of "California Freemason" a quarterly periodical be continued
to be distributed as the Grand Master may direct.
Respectfully submitted,
NEWCOMB CoNDEE
OSCAR C. OLSEN
HERBERT G. POLHILL
GEORGE W. BURCH, JR.
GRAHAM A. BACKUS
HOMER E. RATHBUN
DoN C. CRYSTAL

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

198

199

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE

The returns from the Lodges are not complete but it appears that
the program this year was heard by approximately. 53,000 members
of the Fraternity. their families and friends. This constitutes a considerable group who have taken the time to participate in this program but
is far short of the total membership of our Lodges. We realize that
there are many distractions such as civic affairs, entertainment, television and other activities which prevent all the members of our Lodges
from attending these observances, and suggest that the Committee next
year consider the possibility of a continuous program of some sort
through the Trestleboard in addition to the general observance in· September. We find that only part of the material was used in most Lodges
and we hope that our work this year will be beneficial in the future and
may be put to further use in connection with future programs.
The Constitution of the United States has been a powerful force
in the lives of all the people of the world and has brought to us and all
who live with us in these United States luxuries and pleasures beyond
the reach of the rest of the world. We have a great stake in this document and our system of government. Let us pause occasionally to look
at the benefits we have received from this immortal declaration of the
rights of free men and women and let us make sure that we spend some
of our time keeping in touch with our Government, national. state and
local. voting in every election, and doing our part to keep what has been
given to us, and protect that which we cannot afford to lose.
Respectfully submitted,

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Constitution Month Observance reports as
follows:
In considering the program for our annual September observance of
the adoption of our Federal Constitution, your Committe~ ~ame to the
conclusion that for most of the years in the past a few willing workers
had been somewhat imposed upon and had done more than thei~ s~are
to prepare and present to the Lodges a discussio~ of our Constitution.
There is an old saying that if you want something done ask a busy
man to do it, and your Committee felt that this old saying had been
literally applied to a few of our willing but nevertheless busy bretnren.
Your Committee accordingly undertook to do the necessary research
to prepare two forms of speeches or digests of material which could be
furnished to the Lodges and save our willing workers from a lot of
research work. One of these documents covered the background of
the Constitution by discussing the trials and tribulations and the failures
and successes of various attempts to try out practically all of the known
forms of government in the colonies. This historical background demonstrated that communism. socialism, utopias and other types of government did not work in the colonies and that our representative system
did work, and history has endorsed the work of our forefathers in preparing and adopting our Constitution.
The other document was of a more personal nature and gave short
biographies of all the men who took part in the Constitutio~a~ .Conve~­
tion, including a bit of their previous experience and activities •. their
work in the Convention and their activities following the adoption of
the Constitution. These biographical sketches were found to be most
interesting by your Committee and we hope that the Lodges who used
this material were equally interested.
Your Committee decided to suggest to the Lodges that one of their
own members use the material either for a general discussion of the
subject or that the Lodges select a panel of two or three mem:be~s ~ho
could digest the material, divide it up, and each use part of it m a
panel discussion of our system of government and its background. followed by questions and discussion from the sidelines. We recommended the latter method because we have found through the experience of
last year and the activities of Research Lodges th~t thes~ panel discussions with questions from the sidelines are more mterestm~ than the
usual discussion by one person. The reports we have received from
the Lodges indicate that this suggestion was well received and has
worked to the satisfaction of the Lodges and those who were fortunate
enough to attend the meetings.

LEO E. ANDERSON
WILLIAM B. McKESSON
LAURENCE E. DAYTON
CHESTER KIMREY
H.
HOPKINS
LESTER F. TOTTEN
VERNE R. WILCOX
RUSSELL MILSAP
TAUBNER G. HAMMA
HOWARD B. MELENDY
I. GREGG WILLIAMS
ABE BALUKIAN
CYRIL W. McLEAN
STANLEY A. FoRD
RAy
McINTYRE
EUGENE P. }IJINE
ALEXANDER DOUGLAS POTTS
ROBERT EDGAR
CLAUDE D. SANDS
GEORGE E. ZELHART
FREDC. HESS

c.

w.

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
KEN NET H E. REIN HAR T
EPPE RSO N
FRED
STAN LEY T. TOM LINS ON
ART HUR MEA D
A. TER RY HAV ENS
CLA RE B. WHI TNE Y
RAL PH SPAR LING
WIL LIAM KNIG HT
MAX WEL L J. HAR KNE SS
STEP HEN SKID MOR E
BYRON C. MOR TON
MosES E. LEW IS, JR.
BUR DET TE L. HEIN LEY
FRA NKL IN H. BAR NTH OUS E
JAM ES B. WHI TEH EAD

c.

BY-LAWS
REP OR T OF CO MM ITT EE ON ia:

Californ
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod ge of
active this year and endeavored
inde
California Masonic Lodges are
chan ges in their operating proing to cure defects and make necessary
160 Resolutions affecting Bycedures. This committee has examined
law s and all indicate thoughtful action.
ing for charters submitted
Twe lve Lodges unde r dispensation pray
four Lodges presented for
complete uniform codes of by-laws and
by-laws. All used stan dard
approval complete new unifo~m codes of
forms prescribed by Gra nd Lodge.
for the Degrees and only
Fort y-th ree Lodges increased their fee
division of the total fee as to
one Lodge decreased the amount. The
larg er amount on the Ente red
the
each of the Degrees varies. Some place
ter Mas on Degree. Our comApprentice Degree, others on the Mas
apportionment, but we do recmittee, of course, takes no issue with that
the reasons for it, where the
ommend that careful thou ght he given to
l.
apportionment is not approximately equa
al dues, and eighteen Lodges
annu
r
thei
d
ease
Fifty-B.ve Lodges incr
The se changes are undoubtedly
acte d on the amount of the affiliation fee.
due to .present day increasing costs.
the Gra nd Secr etar y's
Due to carefully wor ded information from
rega rdin g the present contriOffice, no confusion seems to be involved
three Degrees, a Lodge must
butions. In addition to the fee for the
the Homes. $1.00 for the
for
00
receive from the cand idat e the $25.
0 for the California Masonic
George Was hing ton Memorial and $9.0
arding affiliation, the Lodge
Memorial Tem ple- a total of $35.00. Reg
the Masonic Homes in addition
must receive the $25.00 contribution for
her affiliating is from outside
to their affiliation fee. if any, only if the brot
California.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

201

g Lodge changing its place
An ~teresting situation prevails regardin
e othe r than that named in the
of meeting. If the change is to be a plac
Digest the Cha rter must be
Cha rter, then unde r Section 140 of Ross
is properly adopted and Gra nd
amended. If the resolution of the Lodge
rsed by the Gra nd Secr etar y
Lodge approves it, the Cha rter is endo
ge affixed to his endorsement.
Lod
when submitted and the seal of Gra nd
street and city address. Our
Some .Lodges carr y in thei r By-Laws, the
ion is not objectionable. If
com1D1ttee feels that this additional informat ed in the Cha rter, involvnam
~he change of addr ess is in the same city as
t number, then the resolustree
or
tion,
loca
Hall
of
ge
mg only the chan
is sufficient.
ted
adop
tion of the Lodge prop erly noticed and
one the time of meeting and
Eleven Lodges chan ged date of meeting,
The wording used by one
ays.
holid
three Lodge~ made a ·provision f~r
was particularly well phrased.
Lodge for this purpose. our committee felt
It read s:
ting of this Lodge shall be
"Article III. Section 1: The state d mee
th at eight o'clock p.m. except
hold~n on the Firs t Mon day in each mon
ting date shall fall on New
that ~n any month whe n the regular mee
, legal holidays, or whe n
Day
r
Labo
Yea rs Day. Independence Day. or
on Sunday, is observed on the
one of the above legal holidays. falling
ting shall be holden on the
day (Mo nda y) following. the state d mee ck p.m., except that whe n
o'clo
Second Mon day of that month at eight
Monday, the state d meeting
nd
Seco
the
on
fall
l
shal
Admission Day
month at eight o'clock p.m."
that
shall ·he holden on the Thir d Mon day of
The amendments considered are as follows:
AME NDM ENT S TO BY-L AWS

Temple No. 14, to $75.00:
Increasing fees: You nt No. 12. to $165.00:
64, to $75.00: Morning Star
Crescent No. 45, to $125 .00; Nato ma No.
$75.00; Rio Vist a No. 208, to
No. 8, to $100.00: Anaheim No. 207, to
00: Trav er No. 294, to $80.00:
$100.00; Nor th Butte No. 230, to $75.
z No. 337, to $75.00: San FerAlhambra No. 322, to $100.00: Carq uine
to $100.00: Mill Vall ey No.
nand o No. 343, to $100.00: Sunset No. 352,
.00: Oce an Park No. 369, to
356, to $100.00: Uni ty No. 368, to $125
.00: Orosi No. 383, to $65.00:
$115.00; High land Park No. 382, to $100
No. 394, to $125.00; La Mes a
Dinuba No. 385, to $75.00; University
463, to $75.00: Patt erso n No.
No. 407, to $125.00; Mor gan Hill No.
.00; Searchlight No. 567, to
488, to $75.00; Roosevelt No. 500, to $100
e Pillars No. 613, to $125.00;
$110.00; Compass No. 590, to $75.00; Thre
a No. 620, to $125 .00: Fair Nep tune No. 619, to $100.00; Poin t Lom
637, to $100.00; Lomita No.
view No. 629, to $100.00; Palisades No.
$125.00; Reseda No. 666, to
644, to $125.00; La Hab ra No. 659, to
.00; Can by Cros s No. 679, to
$90.00; Los Cerritos No. 674, to $175
Meudell No. 695, to $115.00;
$65.00; Trav eler s No. 692, to $125.00;

202

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

0: Castro
Bixby Knolls No. 699, to $100.00: Lorenzo No. 709, to $100.0
No. 721,
Home
:
$75.00
to
719,
No.
Estero
0;
$100.0
to
Valley No. 713,
to $125.00.
Decreasing fees: Rockridge No. 468, to $115.00.
son
Increasing affiliation fee: University No. 394, to $20.00: Patter
620,
No.
Loma
Point
:
No. 488, to $5.00: Roosevelt No. 500, to $15.00
.
to $10.00: Greenleaf No. 670, to $25.00: Home No. 721, to $10.00
at
58,
Fixing affiliation fee: Yount No. 12, at $6.00: Union No.
West
$10.00: Trave r No. 294, at $1.00; Mt. Jackson No. 295, at $5.00: : PaliLos Angeles No. 373, at $15.00: San Gabriel No. 546. at $25.00
sades No. 637, at $10.00: Castro Valley No. 713, at $20.00.
MagRescinding affiliation fee: Azusa No. 305: Lebanon No. 495:
nolia Park No. 715: Verdu go Hills No. 727.
21
Increasing dues: Wash ington No. 20, to $15.00: Hawaiian No.
Cres:
$15.00
to
40,
No.
ento
Sacram
0:
$150.0
to
to $15.00: Ophir No. 33,
No. 68,
cent No. 45, to $15.00: Union No. 58, to $15.00: Morning Star
$15.00:
to
117,
No.
to $15.00: Bear Mountain No. 76. to $15.00: Conco rd
ale
Fernd
:
$15.00
to
188,
LaFayette No. 126. to $15.00: Oakla nd No.
:
$18.00
to
205,
No.
Olivet
:
$15.00
to
No. 193, to $18.00: Salinas No. 204,
r
Trave
;
$15.00
to
241,
No.
Ana
Santa
;
$15.00
North Butte No. 230, to
356,
No.
No. 294, to $15.00: Tehac hapi No. 313, to $18.00; Mill Valley
: Ocean
to $18.00; Willits No. 365, to $18.00; Unity No. 368, to $15.00 $15.00;
to
371,
No.
nie,
Park No. 369, to $15.00; le Progres de l'Ocea
: HonoHighland Park No. 382, to $15.00: Frater nity No. 399, to $15.00 Dimas
San
:
$15.00
to
415,
No.
l
Trowe
lulu No. 409, to $15.00: Silver
471, to
No. 428, to $15.00: Ramona No. 457, to $15.00: Delta No.
$15.00;
to
505,
$15.00: East Bay No. 489, to $15.00: Silver Cord No.
No.
Signal
;
$15.00
to
Covenant No. 527, to $15.00; Seal Rock No. 536,
:
$18.00
to
556,
No.
x
Fairfa
:
543, to $15.00: Glendale No. 544, to $15.00
ry
Milita
;
$16.00
to
567,
No.
light
Pyramid No. 562, to $16.00; Search
No.
Service No. 570, to $15.00: Compass No. 590, to $15.00; Jubilee to
609,
No.
604, to $15.00: Sojourner No. 607, to $15.00; Provident
to $15.00:
$15.00: Three Pillars No. 613, to $15.00: Hemet No. 615,
: Atwat er
$15.00
to
618,
Big Bear No. 617, to $15.00: Southland No.
635, to
No.
ide
Rivers
:
$15.00
to
629,
No. 622, to $15.00; Fairview No.
;
$15.00
to
666,
No.
a
Resed
:
$18.00
to
645,
$15.00; A. F. E. Irwin No.
Trave lers No. 692, to $15.00: Meudell No. 695, to $15.00.
122;
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Fores t No. 66: Alamo No.
No.
Azure
436:
No.
ont
Clarem
420:
No.
n
Palos Verde s No. 389; Kerma
651:
No.
Park
Menlo
598:
No.
r
Harbo
Pearl
533: Belvedere No. 539:
Orind a No. 704: Mineral King No. 720.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Hermosa No. 557.
Drake
Provision for legal holidays: San Francisco No. 360: Francis
No. 376: Polaris U.D.

203

y No.
Adopt ing Uniform Code of By-Laws: Pajaro No. 110: Hartle
Emn
Golde
199; Truckee No. 200: Brawley No. 402; San Juan U.D.;
U.D.:
Grove
Lemon
pire U.D.; Kit Carso n U.D.; Oasis of Mara U.D.;
U.D.:
Hillsborough U.D.; Arvin U.D.: La Canad a U.D.; Opportunity
U.D.
ood
Oakw
U.D.:
Park
Tyre U.D.: Morningside
No.
Re Charity Committee: Normal Heights No. 632; Can.b y Cross
679; Vista No. 687.
RESOL UTION S

Vista
Providing for change of meeting place: Lexington No. 104; Rio
Palos
380;
No.
No. 208; Francis Drake No. 376; Hunti ngton Beach
No.
e
Seasid
492:
No.
Verde s No. 389; Chowchilla No. 485; Garvanza
Los
655:
No.
Vista
Monte
504; Covenant No. 527: Fairfax No. 556;
Bel713:
No.
Valley
Castro
685;
No.
Cerritos No. 674: San Marino
mont Shore No. 716.
Sierra
Changing Annua l Meeting to November: Georgetown No. 25;
Valley No. 184.
to
We again urge the use of the prepar ed forms for amendmentsthe
urge
also
We
ary.
Secret
the
of
By-Laws and the certificate for use
certificate
Secretaries to not overlook placing the Lodge seal on the
again
ons
omissi
these
of
few
A
.
Lodge
their
of
action
certifying to the
ws
By-La
the
over
appeared. We recommend that incoming Maste rs look
ary
necess
that
and
term,
with the Secretary at the .beginning of the
adoption
amendments be checked by them together, as to notice therefor,
effect.
and date to ta~e
ed
All the amendments and resolutions as finally submitted have receivap..
We
ary.
the approval of the Grand Maste r and the Grand Secret
ing the
proved them and recommend the adoption of this report approv report
this
of
on
adopti
the
that
t
amendments and resolutions. We reques
to offically
also constitute official authorization to the Grand Secretary
changing
s
Lodge
those
of
rs
charte
the
n,
thereo
amend by endorsement
Chart er.
the
in
named
that
than
other
place
a
to
g
their place of meetin
.
ement
and the affixation of the seal of Grand Lodge to his endors
OAKLE Y K. MORT ON
ANDR EW R. SCHOT TKY
WM.W .McK EE
ROBER T C. PEYTO N
LEET . MULL EN
FOLMA R BLANGSTED
RALPH B. SUT'I'O N

Adopted.

204

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CE
REP ORT OF SPECIAL COM MIT TEE ON INSU RAN

To the Most Wors hipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
ing repor t:
Your Special Comm ittee on Insurance submits the follow
unication
The committee repor t submitted at the 1953 Annu al Comm
ittee.
comm
your
by
d
sidere
was, as requested, reviewed and recon
Committee on
- Reference to last year's proceedings reveals that the
rred. The
concu
and
t
repor
Policy and General Purpo ses considered our
t:
following is an excerpt from their repor
in"The Insura nce Committee has appar ently thoro ughly
cost
the
and
ion
situat
the
vestigated the various aspects of
and
of such insura nce as compared to the dange r of loss,
ittee
comm
that
of
gs
findin
the
in
rs
concu
your Committee
and recommends the adoption of the repor t and the action
there recommended.
n
"At the reque st of the Grand Secre tary, the consideratio
Comal
Annu
next
the
until
ued
contin
was
r
of the matte
munication."
n that the
After due consideration, your committee is still of the opinio
ened
broad
be
d
prese nt liability insurance progr am of Grand Lodg e shoul
conall
and
Lodge
d
to provide adequ ate liability coverage fo rGran
stitue nt lodges.
and limits
In our opinion, the prese nt liability insurance coverage
includties,
activi
own
its
are sufficient for Gran d Lodge with respect to
propand
Relief
of
Board
us,
ing Maso nic Homes, Employment Burea
d
Gran
which
for
ty
liabili
direct
any
erty owne d by Grand Lodge and
conall
of
ties
activi
the
of
out
g
arisin
nsible
Lodg e may be held respo
stitue nt lodges.
vulnerable to
However, your committee feels that Gran d Lodge is
those lodges
of
ties
activi
the
with
ction
conne
in
claims and damages
protection. Legal
which prese ntly do not have any liability insura nce
Grand Lodge
that
tes
opinion made available to your committee indica
therefore, a
and,
s
lodge
ituent
could be held liable for acts of the const
ted as soon
activa
and
ated
origin
be
d
liability insurance progr am shoul
as Gran d
well
as
s
lodge
ituent
const
all
t
as practical to adequ ately protec
Lodge.
ntly insure d
A surve y indicates that the liability of 265 lodge s is prese
. This
Lodge
on an individual basis under the same progr am as Grand
these
es
provid
and
e
progr am was made available in 1950 by Grand Lodg
ble
availa
rates
ed
reduc
the
at
lodges with the same coverage and limits
is
e
Lodg
Grand
ces
instan
these
in
to Grand Lodge. We believe that
nce.
prope rly protec ted by such insura
Lodg e's
Thom pkins & Co., the insura nce broke r handl ing Grand
the
zing
analy
in
ittee
comm
your
with
orated
liability insurance, collab
ates
estim
and
s
coverage of the remaining 373 lodges by provi ding figure

205

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

date. The result s
based on a previous surve y which was broug ht up to
are:
ted
1. Lodges not in Grand Lodge progr am which repor
(The
rs.
carrie
other
they carried liability insurance with
highest bodily injury limits carried by any was 100,000/
95
300,0 00). ··········································································
ely
2. Lodges which did not repor t but can be conservativ
s
estimated to carry other insurance ( 36% of 179 lodge
return
on
based
not reporting. The avera ge perce ntage
64
in surve y was 36 % . ) .......................................•...............•
159

3. ~p~roximate number of lodges not protected by liability insurance ·································································-·-

214

373
ximately 214
This analysis indicates the serious exposure of appro
t to the remainlodges not carryi ng any liability insurance. With respec
gh they carry
althou
ing 159 lodges, it would probably be found that,
to have the
likely
are
any,
some type of liability insurance, very few, if
Lodge
Grand
ing
cover
now
broad coverage and necessary limits
activities.
lodges, your
In the interest of Grand Lodge and all constituent
origin ated
be
am
committee recommends that a liability insura nce progr
age and
cover
cal
identi
as prom ptly as possible to provide adequ ate and
the
orate
incorp
to
am
progr
the
it be made mand atory for all concerned;
d
Gran
by
d
carrie
and
ved
appro
now
prese nt broad coverage and limits
Lodge.
a blank et
It is recommended that consideration be given to negotiating
ituent
const
all
and
liability insurance policy in the name of Gran d Lodge
et
blank
a
Such
cost.
um
lodges with Gran d Lodge assuming the premi
ed
adopt
y
alread
ams
progr
nt
prese
policy would be consistent with the
for workmen's compensation and fidelity bond.
and adequ ate
A blank et policy would assure Grand Lodg e of prope r
ituent lodges.
const
liability insura nce protection at a minimum cost for all
detail work
al
cleric
of
nt
Grand Lodge would also avoid the vast amou
s were
lodge
tuent
consti
all
er
required to continuously determine wheth
nce.
insura
prope rly protec ted by liability
your comTo better evalu ate the recommended blanket coverage,
as complan
a
mittee has summarized the annua l premium costs of such
various
the
to
costs
pared to the prese nt appro ximat e annua l premium
Grand
the
hed
furnis
t
repor
lodges. These figures were obtain ed from a
Secre tary •by Thom pkins & Co.

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1. Total present annual premium cost for:
(a) 265 Lodges now in Grand Lodge liability
insurance program
( b) 95 Lodges carrying other forms of
liability insurance
( c) 64 Lodges who. it is estimated, carry other
forms of liability insurance
424 Total of lodges insured
Approximate total annual premium .............. $22,269.04*
*Note: This figure does not include any premium for the 214 lodges probably not insured. At minimum coverages and rates
this amount would be increased by approximately $12,840 to $35,109.04.
2. Total annual premium cost for the recommended
mandatory blanket liability coverage for:
(a ) 638 Lodges and providing for the present
broad coverage and limits now approved and
carried by Grand Lodge.
( b) Protection of Grand Lodge for the potential
or contingent liability arising through the
activities of any "Temple Association" which
may be held directly or indirectly a responsibility of Grand Lodge.
Total annual premium ............................ $25,338.21
As shown in the above summary, the approximate net additional
annual premium cost for Grand Lodge and all 638 constituent lodges
would be only $3,069.17, or an annual per capita cost of $.014 per member. If the minimum annual premium cost of $12,840 for the 214 lodges
not included above is considered there would result an approximate
annual saving of at least $9,770.83.
To recapitulate, your committee again recommends that an over-all
liability insurance program be originated as promptly as possible to provide adequate and identical coverage for Grand Lodge and all constituent
lodges and the program be made mandatory for all concerned.
To accomplish this purpose, it is recommended that either of the
following methods be adopted:
1. Require that all constituent lodges carry at least the same broad
comprehensive coverage and limits of liability insurance as carried
by Grand Lodge and that evidence of such coverage be furnished
the Grand Secretary before December 1st of each year. If such
evidence of coverage is not received before December 1st. the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

207

Grand Secretary shall have the authority and power to purchase
proper liability insurance coverage for the account of the constituent lodge and collect the premium from such lodge.
2. Grand Lodge to negotiate a blanket liability insurance policy coveting Grand Lodge and all constituent lodges with Grand Lodge
assuming the entire cost, which would amount to an annual per
capita cost of approximately $ .116.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. NELSON
ARTHUR F. STREHLOW
HORACE F. CAGWIN

Referred to the Committees on Finance and on Policy and General
Purposes.
At 5:00 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A. M. Wednesday.

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRA ND LODGE

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON REPRESENTATIV
MILEAGE

MORNING SESSION-WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1954
d Mast er preGran d Lodge was called on at 9:30 A. M., the Gran
siding.
ted the minds
The Very Reverend Gran d Chap lain ln his praye r .direc
of the Brethren to chari ty.
ns of Tues day,
The minutes of the morning and aftern oon sessio
Octo ber 12th, were read and appro ved.
of Brother Edwa rd
The Gran d Mast er called attention to the presence
No. 192 in 1889, and
Gard ner Dodge, Mast er of Santa Barb ara Lodge
California .
in
er
hence believed to be the oldest living Past Mast
ing to Most Wor The breth ren had the very great pleasure of listen
, who addre ssed
shipful Larry W. Brainard, Gran d Mast er of Idaho
er.
Gran d Lodge at the invitation of the Gran d Mast

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON CREDENTIAL

S

:
To the Most Wors hipfu l Grand Lodge of California
624 Char tered
Your Committee on Cred entia ls repor t that of the
sented have
repre
not
Lodges, 604 are represented. 9 of the 20 Lodges
one or more Past Mast ers in attendance.
represented.
That all 15 of the Lodges unde r dispensation are
That the total registration is made up as follows:
27
Gran d Lodge Officers ··-············· ·-························ ·····
17
········
·········
Past Gran d Mast ers ·······- ··························
173
····.!,
-······
Officers and Representatives ··-·······-············
··· 971
Past Mast ers ·····--·-······-·-· -··- ···- ············- ···-····
6
..
.........
........
s.......
iction
jurisd
other
of
ers
Mast
Gran d
2
.
Gran d Lodge officers of other jurisdictions...............
6
.......
s.......
iction
jurisd
Representatives of other grand

TotaL........•....••..•- ..~······· ·······-···-·· ···-··---.2,202
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS F. MASON
WILBUR D. CROSBY
C. STANLEY CHAPMAN
REGINALD FUDGE
DONALD J. DICK
TREFTS
EMIL
ROBERT J. MYERS

w.

209

ES

To the Most Wors hipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
following repor t
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits theLodge:
d
covering the 105th Annu al Communication of Gran
accredited Repr eThos e entitled to compensation are: The duly
ers, Officers of
Mast
d
sentatives of each Lodge, Inspectors. Past Gran
ittees enumerComm
of
bers
Gran d Lodge, and the Chai rman and Mem
atten danc e at
in
lly
actua
are
who
,
ated in Section 68 of the Ordinances
Gran d Lodge.
the basis of twice
Compensation of members has ·been computed on
er wher e necesSleep
an
Pullm
plus
the one-w ay first class railw ay fare,
ensation is allowed
sary. As has been the custom for many years, no comp
vicinity, or wher e the
to members from San Francisco or the immediate
.
prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00
points in CaliTran sport ation rates have been computed from all
payroll with
the
ed
check
have
We
fornia and Hawaii to San Francisco.
on Cred enittee
Comm
the
by
us
to
itted
the registration records as subm
the 1954
for
costs
tials. The amount required to meet the trans porta tion
Convocation is as follows:
l,085.28
Gran d Lodge Officers ..... ·-- ---···· ....... ... .... .. ..
808.92
Past Gran d Mast ers ····································-······
.16
1,366
Committees ···············································-·····-··
.32
5,189
··-·················--·
Inspectors - ··································.........
................. 21,520.92
Representatives ................. .........
TOTAL. ......................... ...................$29,970.60
r, and the Angl oThan ks is again due to Past Mast er Louis Sutte
sary arran geme nts so
California Natio nal Bank. for making the neces
at the close of the
that members may cash their checks in this building
bution following
distri
for
Gran d Lodge session. Chec ks will be ready
at the Regising
morn
y
Frida
the election of the Junior Gran d Ward en,
d by the
maile
be
will
for
called
not
ks
tration desk, Polk Hall. Chec
Gran d Secretary.
~espectfully ~ubmitted,

LLOYD c. CAMPBELL
}OHN V. BACIGALUPI
MATTHEW M. CoooN
THOMAS J. McKIMsoN
WILLIAM F. }EBE

210

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON GRIEVA NCES
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to your Committee on Grievances a total
of 60 records.
This report to Grand Lodge by your Committee will deal with 36
of those records. The remaining 24 records will be the subject of separate reports due to the fact that they involve appeals, petitions for restoration, or some other situation which, in the opinion of your Committee, requires them to be separately considered.
During the current year, through the cooperation of the Grand Secretary's Office, the Committee, represente d by one of its members, has
had the opportunity, immediately upon the Grand Secretary 's receipt
thereof. to examine the charge filed in each case, and has undertake n
to call the attention of the Master of the Lodge to any defects in the
charge, and recommending amendment thereof when such charge has
failed to state a masonic offense. Such recommendations have almost
invariably resulted in proper amendment, before the trial in the Lodge.
This procedure has, we think, resulted in several cases in the avoidance
of possi'ble reversal by Grand Lodge and the necessity of retrial in the
Lodge, with, we hope, considerable saving of expense and trouble to
the Lodges involved.
Further, the Committee has requested Judge Ross of our Committee,
who is the first member of the Committee to receive the trial records in
the course of their circulation among the members of the Committee, to
carefully examine the cases with the purpose of determining whether
proper service of process has been made upon the accused in accordanc e
with Masonic law, and in the event the record did not show proper
service, to correspond with the Lodge with a view to correcting the
defect. This has seemed to have been effective in the proper completion
of several trial records which would otherwise have come before Grand
Lodge in such condition that Grand Lodge could not properly have
approved the action of the Lodge.
Members of Grand Lodge, in hearing the separate reports, will, no
doubt, note that as a result of these two innovations but few records
this year are recommended for disapproval for improper charges or for
want of proper service.
In conference with the Grand Secretary during the 1953 communication it was decided to try omitting from the printed proceedings of Grand
Lodge the separate reports which have in prior years been printed at
length in the proceedings, for reasons which seemed at the time to justify
such omission. Your Committee, however, is now of the belief that the
separate reports, unless otherwise recommended by the Committee,
should be printed in the proceedings ·of Grand Lodge. They serve as
precedents, and as the California Masonic disciplinary law is, in part,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

211

made up of decisions of Grand Lodge interpretin g the statutory provisions of the Constituti on and Ordinance s by action upon the several
reports of this Committee, we believe they should by this means be made
available to the Lodges and their officers, and to any member of the
craft who may desire to examine them in the printed proceedings. We
believe, however, that in cases of such character as might tend to scandalize Masonry, our Committee may well, in offering its resolution to
Grand Lodge in such cases, recommend that the report be NOT PRINTED in the proceedings of Grand Lodge.
Your Committee will recommend to Grand Lodge the affirmance of
the result reflected in the file of each of the following trial records:
No. 1323-(Re trial). A member of Alcatraz Lodge No. 244. Expelled
April 7, 1954.
No. 1324-( Retrial). A member of Ponderosa Lodge No. 700. Expelled
February 10, 1954.
No. 1327-(Re trial). A Fellow Craft of Florence Lodge No. 649. Expelled January 7, 1954.
No. 1365-A member of Eden Lodge No. 113. Acquitted April 1, 1953.
No. 1366-A member of El Sereno Lodge No. 588. Expelled October 6,
1953.
No. 1367-A member of Reedley Lodge No. 304. Expelled October 7,
1953.
No. 1368-A member of George Washingt on Lodge No. 525. Expelled
December 1, 1953.
No. 1370---A.member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled December
3, 1953.
No. 1371-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Acquitted October
2, 1953.
No. 1372-A member of Fallbrook Lodge No. 317. Expelled December
11, 1953.
No. 1373-A member of Signal Lodge No. 543. Expelled January 5,
1954.
member of South Gate Lodge No. 320. Expelled February
1374-A
No.
3, 1954.
No. 1376-A member of Sacramento Lodge No. 40. Expelled February
5, 1954.
No. 1377-A member of Pacific Lodge No. 136. Acquitted February 2,
.
1954.
No. 1378-A member of Needles Lodge No. 326. Expelled March 8,
1954.
.
No. 1379-A member of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Expelled March 2,
1954.
No. 1381-A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Acquitted December 3, 1953.

212

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

3,
No. 1385- A member of Reedley Lodge No. 304. Expelled March
1954.
No. 1387- A member of Castro Valley Lodge No. 713. Expelled April
1, 1954.
A
No. 1390- member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled May 14, 1954.
7,
No. 1392- A member of El Dorado Lodge No. 26. Expelled June
1954.
3,
A
No. 1393- member of Alamo Lodge No. 122. Reprimanded July
1954.
No. 1394- A member ~f Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled July 9, 1954.
7,
No. 1395- A member of Willow Glen Lodge No. 676. Expelled July
1954.
No. 1396- A member of Oildale Lodge No. 688. Expelled June 4, 1954.
7,
No. 1397- A member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437. Suspended July
1954.
19,
No. 1398- A member of El Segundo Lodge No. 507. Acquitted July
.
1954.
t
No. 1399- A member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 358. Expelled Augus
5, 1954.
t
No. 1401- A member of Coalin ga Lodge No. 387. Reprimanded Augus
13, 1954.
t
No. 1402- A member of Sacramento Lodge No. 40. Suspended Augus
6. 1954.
t 4,
A
No. 1403- member of Lancaster Lodge No. 437. Expelled Augus
1954.
member of Coalinga Lodge No. 3S7. Expelled July 8, 1954.
A
1408No.
ber
No. 1409- A member of Menorah Lodge No. 623. Expelled Septem
1, 1954.
member of Gold Hill Lodge No. 32, Expelled May 5, 1954.
A
1410No.
1,
No. 1411- A member of Oceanside Lodge No. 381. Expelled March
1954.
t 7,
No. 1412-- A member of Alamo Lodge No. 122. Expelled Augus
1954.
Your Committee has carefully reviewed the record in each of the
may
foregoing matters, and find therein no errors of a character which
justice.
of
riage
miscar
a
in
d
resulte
have
In each of them there has been a substantial compliance with the
all
procedural requirements of our Constitution and Ordinances. In
Secof
ments
require
the
,
therein
d
cases of automatic expulsion reporte
in
tion 332 have been substantially followed. In each of the matters
ce
eviden
nt
sufficie
by
ted
suppor
is
result
the
had,
which a tri!!l has been
in the record, and in those cases in which the penalty was fixed at reprimand, suspension or expulsion, we believe that the findings of Guilty

213

are adequately supported, and that the penalties imposed are in reason
tted.
commi
s
offense
able accord with the charac ter of the
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
RESO LVED that in each of the foregoing enumerated trial records the action of the Lodge in cases of automatic expulsion, and
the findings and determination of the Trial Commission, and the
penalty imposed, be and the same are ratified, affirmed and approved.
JoE L SHELL
ALBER T F. Ross

ALFRE D F. BRESLA UER
RALPH E. HOYT
RALPH K. PIERSO N
A. F. BAUGH N
DANIEL M. CAMER ON

Adopted.
(The several portions of this report, although received at sessions
ce.)
on different days, are recorded as a group for convenience of referen

Trial Records Nos. 766 and 949
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the petition of H. H. A. for
restoration to the rights and privileges of a Fellowcraft Mason, begs
leave to report as follows:
The accused, a Fellowcraft Mason of Euclid Lodge No. 519, was
ed
expelled by that Lodge on March 2, 1939, under the process provid
the
in
ted
convic
been
having
after
nces,
Ordina
our
of
for in Section 332,
Superior Court of Los Angeles County , of the offense of Grand Theft,
the
involving the theft of $334.98, and after having been committed to
California State Prison therefor.
Documentary evidence supporting his application for restoration
shows that in the fourteen years since his release on parole from prison
on December 11, 1939, he complied fully with the terms of his parole,
an
and was, after a hearing in the Los Angeles Superior Court, grante d
Decem
on
rmore,
Furthe
itated.
rehabil
been
have
order finding him to
by
pardon
ber 24, 1948, the applicant was grante d a full and complete
Los
the Governor of California. The Judge of the Superior Court of
the
as
well
as
nt,
applica
the
Angeles Count y who presided at the trial of
r
Maste
are
whom
of
both
itation,
Judge who made the order of rehabil
his
ending
recomm
Lodge
Grand
to
letter
a
Masons, each has written
n
restoration. There are a number of other letters of recommendatio

214

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

submitted on behalf of the applicant, some of which describe a highly
commendable course of conduct on the part of the applicant in continuous
efforts over a period of years to assist men released from prison to obtain
employment and to readjust themselves in society. One of the letters is
from the Warden of the State Prison, who states in part as follows:
"I want to again thank you for your sincere interest in helping us
place men who are due for release on parole. You have been doing this
type of work for approximately ten years, and have placed well over 150
men from institutions. I understand that most of these men have made
good, which I am sure is quite gratifying to you and is to me, as well."
There would be no point in reciting in detail the excellent showing
this applicant has made. Your Committee is convinced that he has made
complete atonement for his error and that his restoration is justified.
We point out, however, that his restoration by Grand Lodge will not
restore him to membership in the Lodge which expelled him, and that
if this Grand Lodge adopts the resolution for his restoration, he will
thereupon necessarily make application to the Lodge which expelled him
for restoration therein and if such application .be granted by the Lodge.
he then may have the third degree of Masonry conferred upon him.
Your Committee offers the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of H.H.A .• formerly a Fellowcraft of
Euclid Lodge No. 519, for restoration to the rights and privileges of a
Fellowcraft Mason, be, and the same is hereby granted.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 985
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grie,;ances, to which was referred the petition
of J. L. H. of La Mesa Lodge No. 407 for restoration to the rights and
privileges of Masonry, reports as follows:
Petitioner was automatically expelled in 1940. This was upon a conviction in the United States Federal Court for embezzlement from a
national bank.
The petition is accompanied by numerous letters, all of which state
facts indicating that since said time Petitioner has lived and conducted
himself in an exemplary manner. His Lodge has voted unanimously in
favor of the granting of this petition.
Your Committee is of the opinion that the record in this case indicates
that the Petitioner has fully rehabilitated himself and therefore offers
the following resolution.
RESOLVED: That the petition of J. L. H. for restoration to the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby granted.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

215

Trial Records Nos. 1317 and 13 58
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Records
Nos. 1317 and 1358, reports as follows:
The accused F. J. K. was charged with unmasonic conduct in that.
being a resident of the State of Ohio, he violated the masonic law of
that state by engaging in the actual sale of intoxicating liquors to be
drunk upon the premises where sold.
The accused had been charged in Ohio with that violation of the
Ohio masonic law. had been convicted in that state of unmasonic conduct, and this conviction and his expulsion therefor have been confirmed
by the Grand Lodge of Ohio.
Under these circumstances Section 331 of our Constitution required
a charge of unmasonic conduct to be filed against the accused in his
Lodge under the California jurisdiction.
Accordingly, he was so charged, the record of the trial in Ohio was
introduced in evidence. and on September 7. 1953, his Lodge found him
not guilty of unmasonic conduct.
Our Landmark Seventeenth (p. 567"Ross' Digest) reads as follows:
"Every Freemason is amenable to the laws and regulations of
the Masonic Jurisdiction within which he resides."
The trial record in this file shows that, without question. the accused
was tried by a competent tribunal under the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of Oltio and was found guilty of unmasonic conduct. The evidence introduced before that tribunal was introduced before a trial commission selected by our Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598, which trial commission acquitted the accused. The only defense offered by the accused
was that since he was a member of a Lodge under the Grand Jurisdiction of California. and since his conduct in the sale of liquor in his Ohio
business establishment, being a tavern where food was also served. was
not in violation of the California Masonic law. even though shown to be
in violation of the Ohio law, the trial commission of his own Lodge
would not be justified in convicting him of unmasonic conduct.
In order that Grand Lodge may have a fair understanding of the
facts shown at the trial before the Ohio tribunal. and which evidence was
also presented to the Pearl Harbor Lodge. we recite that the accused
testified that his records showed that in 1950, in his Ohio business establishment. he sold $3,630.19 worth of liquor and beer and $4.875.40 worth
of food and other merchandise, such as hunting and fishing equipment.
It also shows that the accused held liquor licenses from the State of Ohio,
and there is substantial evidence to sustain the findings of guilt made
by the Ohio trial commission that the accused had sold intoxicating liquors to be drunk on the premises of the accused.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

216

In Trial Record No. 1256, which was based upon a violation by a
California Mason, of the Nebras ka masonic law, our California Grand
Lodge in 1952 adopted a policy to the effect that a sojourning Mason
should conform to the Masonic regulations of the jurisdiction in which
he resides, and for a violation thereof should be disciplined in California
by his own Lodge; and if his Lodge failed therein, by this Grand Lodge.
In accordance with that policy your Committee offers the following
resolution:
RESOL VED: That the finding of not guilty of unmasonic
conduct made by the trial commission in Trial Records Nos. 1317
and 1358, be and the same hereby is vacated and set aside; that
by action of this Grand Lodge, findings that the accused F. J. K.
was guilty of the specification charged and of unmasonic conduct
be, and the same are hereby made herein, and that the penalty
therefor be by this Grand Lodge fixed at expulsion.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1319
Grand Lodge of California:
pful
To the Most Worshi
ication of this Grand Lodge the trial
commun
At the last annual
and set aside because of lack of jurisvacated
was
matter
record in this
diction of the Trial Lodge due to insufficient and defective service of
the accused, and the matter was remanded to the Lodge for further proceedings.
This record is now again before us on affidavit of the accused that
he was duly served with summons and copy of the charge. .
However. Section 308 of our Constit ution requiring service upon
accused 30 days before date of trial where accused is outside the juris..
diction of the Lodge at the time of such service is mandatory, and jurisdiction ·cannot be conferred by affidavit of the accused.
we therefore must again reluctantly recommend that the case be
remanded to the Lodge for further proceedings as directed by resolution
of this Grand Lodge in 1953 and offer this resolution:
RESOL VED: That the Trial Record No. 1319 opinion of 1953 and
Resolution therein adopted must stand.
Adopted.
1

.

....

· ·; w-.-a-.~ ------~
~: .:~~

•··~

--

~~~~ 1-h:i:~~

Trial Record No. 1374
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:

The accused R. W . R. was on the 3rd day of Februar y, 1954, after
notice duly given, expelled by South Gate Lodge No. 320 F. & A. M.
from all of the rights and privileges of Masonr y by reason of the con..
viction of a crime classified as a felony, to wit: the crime of Infliction
of Trauma tic Injury upon Wife of Accused, and was imprisoned therefor.
The expulsion of the accused has been approved by your Committee

217

in its Omnibus Report, which said report has been approved by Grand
Lodge at this communication.
On July 15, 1954, the accused R. W.R. filed with South Gate Lodge
No. 320 F. & A. M. a petition for restoration to the rights and privileges
of Masonry. The Lodge at its stated meeting 'held on September 1. 1954,
after notice duly given, voted unanimously to petition Grand Lodge to
restore R. W. R. under the provisions of Section 347 of Ross Digest.
Section 327 of ordinances provides for review of trial records by
Grand Lodge. In Section 916 of Ross Digest Section 327 was construed
and discussed. It is necessary in all cases that the Trial Record be reviewed by Grand Lodge and action taken thereon. Since in this case
the Trial Record was not confirmed by Grand Lodge until Octobe r 11.
1954, it is the opinion of your Committee that the petition of South Gate
Lodge No. 320 F. & A. M. is premature.
In addition, the petition of R. W. R. to the Lodge does not show
what he has done to rehabilitate himself after his conviction and that he
completely atoned for his acts.
For the foregoing reasons it is the opinion o'f your Committee that
the petition of South Gate Lodge No. 320 F. & A. M. be denied without
prejudice, and recommends the adoption of the following resolution:
RESOL VED: That the petition of South Gate Lodge No. 320 F.
& A. M. in Trial Record No. 1374 for restoration of R. W. R. to the
rights and privileges of Masonr y be and the same is hereby denied,
without prejudice.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECO RD NO. 137.5
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
BE IT RESOL VED that the finding of Not Guilty in Trial Record
No. 1375 be reversed and set aside, and that the case be remanded to
William D. Stephens Lodge No. 698 for retrial of R. E. R. on the same
or amended or additional charges, and that the Grand Master transfer
the matter to some other Lodge for the trial.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1382
To the Most ?Vorshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1382, reports as follows:
Accused V . W ., a member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442, was charged
with several specifications involving possession of and addiction to
narcotics.
He was tried and found guilty of all specifications and of unmasonic
conduct and penalty was fixed by expelling him from all rights and privileges of masonry. With this your committee is in full agreement.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

218

However, the committee feels compelled to comment upon the state
of the trial record which indicates the Trial Commission met on a certain
date for which a meeting was called, and adjourn ed to a later date, but
in the meantime at the express direction of the Grand Master the action
of trial procedure was deferre d until a trial master could be designa ted
to take the place of the Master who was disqualified. Pursuan t to this
direction the Trial Commissioners. accused, accuser and Master were
advised not to appear on the date specified and that a new date would
be set as soon as a Trial Master could be appoint ed. This was done in
due time and the trial took place.
Because of the express direction on the part of the Grand Master,
your committee feels this matter should be considered as an exception
to Section 983 of Ross Digest.
Therefo re, your committee recommends the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
RESOL VED: That the Trial Commissions did have jurisdiction and
that their finding in Trial Record No. 1382 that V. W. is guilty of the
specification and of unmasonic conduct be and it is hereby affirmed and
approved; and that by action of Grand Lodge the said V. W. be expelled
from all rights and privileges of Masonr y.
Adopte d.

Trial Record No. 1384
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
This trial record involves one J. C. C.. Jr.. a member of East San
Diego Lodge No. 561.
In court the accused plead guilty to two different counts of grand
theft, was fined $2,000 and put on 5 years probation. In the masonic
trial he was charged with two specifications: ( 1 ) that of stealing a compressor of the value of $3.500, and ( 2) theft of a table saw of the value
of $1,000.
He was present and testified at the masonic trial. The Trial Commission found him guilty of both specifications and unmasonic conduct
fixing the penalty at suspension.
Under the circumstances and in keeping with Grand Lodge precedents of expelling a member in similar cases, your Committee offers the
following resolution.
RESOL VED: That the Trial Commission's finding that J.C. C., Jr.,
is guilty of unmasonic conduct be affirmed. but that the penalty therefor e
be fixed by Grand Lodge at expulsion.
Adopte d.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

219

Trial Record No. 1388
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
The accused R. N. K., a member of Hollyw ood Lodge No. 355, was

convicted in the Superio r Court of Los Angele s County of violations
of several sections of the narcotics laws of Californ ia, in that he forged
and altered a prescription for a narcotic to wit: demerol, and also was
convicted of the crime of burglar y, a felony, by wilfully entering a store
and building with intent to commit theft. Accused was granted probation by the court for a period of five years, with one year of this time
to be served in the County Jail. He actually served seven months on the
County Road Camp. He was also ordered to make restitution to the
owner of the store for damage s in the sum of $6.000.
Upon specifications based on the foregoing facts he was charged
with unmasonic conduct, tried and found guilty of the specifications,
but not guilty of unmasonic conduct.
Your Committee feels that the crimes of which he was found guilty
by the Trial Commission involved moral turpitud e.
Under the circumstances we are of the opinion that the finding of
"not guilty of unmasonic conduc t" is unwarr anted and should be set
aside, and that Grand Lodge should supply a finding of "guilty of unmasonic conduct " and that the penalty should be fixed at expulsion.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOL VED: That the Trial Commission's finding in Trial Record
No. 1388 that R. N. K. is guilty of the specifications ·be approve d and
affirmed; that by action of this Grand Lodge the accused be adjudge d
guilty of unmasonic conduc t and that he be and is hereby expelled from
all rights and privileges of Masonr y.
Adopte d.

Trial Record No. 1389
Grand Lodge of California:
pful
To the Most Worshi
B. H. E. M .• a member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, was charged
in two specifications:
1. That he had conspired with certain members of Silver Gate Lodge
the fact of two felony convictions against him when he peticonceal
to
tioned for the Degree s of Masonr y. and 2, that he had falsely answere d
question 12 on said petition.
On trial by said Lodge he was. found not guilty of the first specification, guilty of the second and guilty of unmasonic conduct and expelled.
There is a letter in the file from the accused asking consideration of
the case by Grand Lodge. This is not a proper appeal but we have given
it consideration as such.
The evidence shows that accused did suffer the felony convictions.
He admits this. He says that certain members of the Lodge told him not

221

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to divulge these convictions to the Lodge as he would not be able to get
in if he did. He says he considered that he had paid his debt to society.
Answering question 12 in the petition for Degrees in the negative,
standing alone, might not be sufficient for a finding of guilt herein. But
it appears that accused actually knew that in Masonry he would be
barred from membership if he told of his felony convictions and his
answer to the question was therefore wilfully false.
The members who advised him to conceal these facts were also to
blame, but accused cannot excuse himself because of their wrong.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the expulsion of B. H. E. M. by Silver Gate
Lodge No. 296 be approved and affirmed.
Adopted.

sonic offense; it is the operation of a bar or being a bar-tender that is
the offense and this is not charged.
El Sereno Lodge was advised to amend these charges to make them
express some Masonic offense or offenses, but did not do so.
The record is very poor. We do not have the full record of the meeting at which commissioners were elected. Service on accused was probably sufficient, although the record on that point is not clear.
At the trial no legal evidence whatever was produced except possibly the copy of the application of accused for a liquor license in Colorado. The rest consisted of unsworn letters, newspaper articles, etc. All
of these are hearsay evidence only. A proper deposition, sworn to by
some proper witness in Colorado, could have proved the necessary facts
of this case in a few typewritten pages, but we have no such evidence in
the file.
The able trial master continued the trial once to enable the Lodge
to get some real evidence. HO'Wever, on the date set by the trial master
the latter was out of the state and apparently the matter was continued
another week, although the record does not show it. At the final meeting
the trial master was still absent and the commission proceeded without
him, took some further evidence and voted, finding accused guilty of the
fourth specification and of unmasonic conduct and ordered him expelled.
No record is made of the vote on the first three specifications.
Although there is every indication that this Entered Apprentice
Mason, who has been properly stopped from advancement, should be
expelled, we cannot recommend it on a poor record like we have here.
The charges are not properly drawn and the evidence was completely
illegal and inadmissible and the procedure was faulty "in many respects.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the expulsion of S. G. F. by El Sereno Lodge
No. 588 be reversed and set aside and the matter returned to the Lodge
for the filing of amended charges as to being in the saloon business or
acting as a bar-keeper and for a new trial on such charges.
Adopted.

220

Trial Record No. 1391
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
S. G. F., the accused, was elected to take the Degrees in El Sereno
Lodge No. 588 in 1952, and received the Entered Apprentice Degree.
He then moved to Colorado and later asked that he be permitted to take
the remaining Degrees there. Correspondence with Masonic officials in
Colorado led to the information that accused was operating a place
where liquor was sold in violation of Colorado Masonic law and that
the Lodges there would not agree to confer any Degrees on him. Objection was made to his advancement in El Sereno Lodge also, and he
was stopped from such advancement. However, he was still an Entered
Apprentice of the Lodge and the Grand Master advised the Lodge to
proceed to try him.
Charges were filed in several specifications:
( 1 ) That he had participated in a gun-shooting affair in which one
man was killed and in which accused was wounded.
( 2) That he "threw a punch. at a man which missed and struck the
man's wife."
( 3) That he had participated in a gambling disagreement in which
ill-feeling was generated. ·
( i ) That he had a liquor license for serving by the drink issued to
him in Colorado.
As drawn, none of these specifications state Masonic offenses. It is
not shown that accused was in any way to blame in the gun-shooting
affair, but it appears he was one of the victims.
It is not shown that the throwing of the punch which hit the intended
recipient's wife was wrongful. It may have been in self-defense, and
the correspondence in the file so indicates.
It is not shown that the gambling disagreement involves any wrongful action by accused.
The issuance of a liquor license to accused is not necessarily a Ma-

Trial Record No. 1400
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred trial record No. 1iOO, reports
as follows:
The accused, W. J. L. was charged with unmasonic conduct in that
he stole property of his employer of the value of $236.00. Although not
served with process in accordance with our Law he appeared at the time
of trail and testified on his own behalf.
The evidence is sufficient to support findings of guilty of the specification of unmasonic conduct. However, the record in this respect reads
as follows:

222

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"After sufficient consultation and deliberation, a vote for guilty or
not guilty was taken by ballot and the ballot was seven ( 7) guilty and
none ( 0) not guilty. The Commissioners then proceeded to vote by
ballot, upon the sentence. The Master submitted to the Commissioners
the question-Shal l the accused be expelled? The ballot on such question resulted in six ( 6) aye, and one ( 1 ) no." (End of quote.)
It will be noted that in fact no separate ballots were taken on the
specification and on the question of unmasonic conduct as our law provides.
However, in this matter, your committee is of the opinion that this
error was not prejudicial to the accused.
We therefore present the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That in Trial Record No. 1400, a finding of guilt
of the specification and of unmasonic conduct be supplied by action of
this Grand Lodge; that the penalty be fixed at expulsion, and that the
action of The Gardens Lodge No. 621, in expelling W. J. L. from all the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same hereby is ratified, confirmed and approved.
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1404
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances reports as follows:
G. M. W .• a member of Claremont Lodge No. 436, was a constable
of San Bernardino County. He was convicted of embezzling a larg.e sum
of public money,~ "felony, but was given probation without serving any
prison or jail sentence.
He was tried by the Lodge and suspended.
Proceedings were regular and the finding of guilt should be affirmed.
However, Grand Lodge has always held that commission of a crime
involving moral turpitude merits expulsion.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That, the finding of guilty in Trial Record No. 1404
be affirmed but that the penalty be changed to expulsion and that G. M.
W. be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1405
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1405 reports as follows:
Accused, A.G. H., a member of Euclid Lodge No. 519, was charged
with unmasonic conduct in three specifications: first, that accused hit a
person (while driving an automobiie) and did not stop to render aid or
give his name; second, that he was convicted in the Superior Court for

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

223

violation of Section 480 of the Vehicle Code of California; and third,
that he was imprisoned in the County Jail for the term of 60 days as a
condition of a three year probation period. The first specification alone
states the offense.
The accused appeared at the trial and testified that he ran over a
man and killed him; that he lost control of his faculties and drove away
from the scene of the accident, subsequently realized that he had done
wrong; that the evidence showed that the man he had killed was drunk
and walking in the middle of the road; that he realized that he had done
wrong in not stopping at the scene of the accident.
He was found guilty of specification one, "Hit-run," not guilty of
specifications two and three, and not guilty of unmasonic conduct.
The trial commissioners correctly found him guilty of the first specification. Your Committee feels that the trial commissioners erred in finding him not guilty of unmasonic conduct. The accused pleaded guilty
in the Criminal Court. He admitted he was wrong in leaving. the scene
of the accident. There must have been extenuating circumstances because
the Criminal Court gave him a light sentence when he served 60 days in
an honor camp for the offense involved. Nevertheless he should have
been found guilty of unmasonic conduct and a "light" Masonic penalty
assessed.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move for its adoption:
RESOLVED: That the Trial Commission's finding in Trial Record
No. 1405, that A. G. H. is guilty of specification one be approved and
affirmed; that the.finding that he is not guilty of unmasonic conduct be
disapproved and a finding of guilty be supplied: and that the penalty be
and it is hereby fixed at reprimand.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1406
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1406 reports as follows:
Accused F. C. L., a member of Signal Lodge No. 543, was charged
with unmasonic conduct in three specifications: first, that accused knowingly, wilfully and unlawfully sold or issued shares of stock of "X"
Company, a Nevada Corporation, without a permit from the Commissioner of Corporations of California; second, that he failed to pay du~
obedience to the laws under whose protection he lives by selling shares
in said corporation contrary to the Corporate Securities Act of Califor~
nia and which would constitute a felony: and third, that he did commercialize on Masonry by using a roster or list of Masons as a "sucker"
list of prospects for the sale of shares in said venture.
The accused appeared at the trial and was represented by an attor-

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

224

ney. A certified copy of the judgment of conviction in the Superior Court
on his plea of guilty was introduced for violation of the Corpor ate
Securities Act. He was fined $500.00, put on 5 years probation and
ordered to pay three-fo urths of the total amount of restitution resulting
from the illegal sale of stock.
The accused testified that he had personally invested a large amount
of funds in the venture, all of which was lost due to the untimely death
and drunkenness of other principals: that he had an opinion from an
attorney that the sale of stock in Nevada through a power of attorne y
would not violate California law and subsequently the attorne y reversed
his position and wrote a letter that sale of stock was not legal: that
accused had no intention of violating the Corpor ate Securities Act and
did not use his Masonic connections whatsoever for the sale of stock,
that all sales were made to investors who voluntarily wished to invest
and no pressure was used on them.
The trial commissioners found the accused guilty of the first and
second specifications and not guilty of the third: guilty of unmasonic
conduct and penalty fixed at expulsion. The matter is now before us on
a written appeal by the accused claiming that the evidence is insufficient
to sustain the judgment: that the specifications are incomplete and do
not state sufficient facts to constitute grounds for expulsion: that additional evidence has been procured by the accused: that a misunderstanding was prevalent among the Commissioners at the time that they made
their decision.
We can dispose of the contention that there was a misunderstanding
among the Commissioners because there is no evidence thereof whatso ever. The brief filed hy the accused in support of the appeal does not
mention this point or present any evidence. In support of the contention
that the specifications are incomplete it is claimed that the specifications
neglect to set forth that the accused was convicted of a felony and his
sentence for such offense. Such matter is improper in a specification and
the specifications upon which the accused was expelled are sufficient.
The additional evidence, consisting of powers of attorne y to purchase
stock in Nevada and a financial breakdown of the money collected and
spent by the corporation is m~rely c~mulative. The evi.dence a~d~ced at
the trial was sufficient to sustain the 1udgment of the trial comnuss1oners,
particularly in view of the accused's plea of guilty in the criminal court.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move for its adoption:
RESOL VED: That the Trial Commissioners' finding in Trial Record No. 1406, that F. C. L. be expelled be and the same is hereby approved and confirmed.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

225

Trial Record No. 1407
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1407 reports as follows:
Accused B. M. S., a member of Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699, was
charged with the same specifications as set forth in Trial Record No.
1406, he being a joint defendant with the accused in the criminal matter.
Before the start of the trial the third specification regarding the use of
a roster as a "sucker " list was withdrawn. The accused in this case was
an employe of "X" Company, subsequently elected secretar y without
his knowledge, but as secretar y he made several sales of stock.
The accused appeared at the trial with an attorney. A certified copy
of the judgment of conviction was introduced. This accused was fined
$250.00, placed on 5.years probation and ordered to pay one-fourth of
the total amount of restitution resulting from the illegal sale of stock.
The accused testified on his own behalf that he was in effect only an
employee of the corporation and had nothing to do with the financing
.
or the operation of the company.
The accused was found guilty of both specifications and unmasonic
conduct and penalty fixed at expulsion.
The matter is before us on an appeal filed by the accused . The appeal repeats briefly the evidence given by the accused at the trial and
pleads for leniency. There has been filed also a letter by a Past Master
on behalf of the accused. The accused in this case was not as active in
the operation oi the company or the sale of the stock as the accused in
Trial Record No. 1406. Nevertheless in the criminal trial this accused,
B. M. S., pleaded guilty. The facts set forth in the notice of appeal and
letter on behalf of the accused present matter which should be given·
consideration on a petition for restoration if and when such petition is
filed. On the question now before us, your committee is of the opinion
that the evidence was sufficient to sustain the judgment of the trial commissioners.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move for its adoption:
RESOL VED: That the Trial Commissioners' finding in Trial Record No. 1407, that B. M. S. be expelled be and the same is hereby ap..
proved and confirmed.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1413
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
F. T., a member of America Lodge No. 475, was tried by Hollywood
Lodge No. 355 and ordered expelled. The announcement of the result
was on September 2, 1954. An appeal has been flied by the accused and
a lengthy brief in support thereof has been presented.

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Under Section 339 of the Ordinances, both the accused and accuser
have sixty days after the announcement of the result to file additional
evidence or arguments. In this case, therefore, this appeal cannot be
considered at this Communication.
We, therefore. offer the following resolution:
.
RESOLVE D. that consideration of Trial Record No. 1413 be continued to the next Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

ADDITIO NAL TRIAL RECORDS
The Grievance Committee reports in connection with each of the
following Trial Records were approved by Grand Lodge in accordance
with the several actions noted:
No. 1013-A member of Evergreen Lodge No. 259. Lodge relieved of
mandate for member's retrial and charges dismissed.
No. 1194-An expelled member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Petition
for restoration denied without prejudice.
No. 1333-A member of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Finding of guilty
reaffirmed. Penalty changed to expulsion.
No. 1335-A suspended member of Illinoistown Lodge No. 51. Petition
for restoration denied.
No. 1354-An expelled member of Burbank Lodge No. 406. Petition
for restoration withdrawn at member's request.
No. 1369-A member of McKinley Lodge No. 347. Finding of guilty
affirmed. Penalty fixed at expulsion.
No. 1380--A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Lodge action reversed
with instructions to file proper Masonic charges if the facts
warrant.
No. 1383-A member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30. Findings of trial
commission reversed and matter remanded for proper trial.
No. 1386--A member of Alhambra Lodge No. 322. Finding of guilty
affirmed. Penalty fixed at expulsion.

227

MEMORI AL SERVICE

2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11

Wednesday , October 13, 1954
Song, ''Our Shepherd" .......................•.......................•....... Anderson
Carl Hooper, Alta Vista Lodge No. 464
Invocation ....................•........................................... Grand Chaplain
Report of Committee on Necrology............Roy C. Bryan, Chairman
Song ,"In the Garden of God" ............................................. Anderson
Eulogy, for Claude H. Morrison..............Arthur Paulsen, P. G. M.
Organ Solo, "Berceuse" ..................................................•.......Jarnfelt
Eulogy, for James B. Gist........................Uoyd E. Wilson, P. G. M.
Song, "Good Night" ................................................Smith..Anderson
Eulogy. for Wm. B. Ogden ................... .Ellsworth Meyer, P. G. M.
Memorial Song. "Taps" ........................................................Custance
Benediction ................................................................ Grand Chaplain

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON NECROLO GY
Life is a continuous succession of joys and sorrows. The convening
of the Grand Lodge is a joyous occasion for again we contact those from
whom we have been separated for a time. It also is a sad occasion for
we seek in vain for those whom we have been closely associated with
over the years, and the realization gradually creeps upon us that never
again will we see their smiling faces nor grasp their hands in the salutation of friendship. Therefore it is fitting and proper that we pause in
our deliberations to pay our respects to, and express our love for, those
members who have during the past year been called to the Grand Lodge
a.hove.
Since the 1953 Communication 249 members of the Grand Lodge
Body have crossed into the great unknown and, according to our belief
and our faith. now reside in our Father's house under the protection of
His everlasting arms.
The vast area of California, over which spreads the Masonic Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge. makes it impossible for any one of us to
have known each of our deceased brethren. But it is doubtful indeed
if there is a single one present who has not during the past year stood
beside the bier of one or more of our dead and there shed his tears at the
loss of a good man, a dear friend, and an ardent Mason.
The devoted interest of our deceased brethren to the wellbeing of
our Fraternity is manifested by the fact that 153 had been members
between 25 and 50 years and 40 had been members for over half a
century.
The death toll was heaviest in Pacific Lodge No. 136 of San Francisco and West Gate Lodge No. 335 of Los Angeles, each having lost
four Past Masters. Twelve lodges lost three each, 47 lodges lost two

228

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge No. 410 of
each, and 151 lodges lost one each. Char ter Rock
as Gran d Chap lain of
Berkeley lost John Absolom B. Fry, who serve d
6.
this Gran d Lodge for two successive years --191 5-191
one of its most
James Madi son Lodge No. 572 of Los Ange les lost
ber 18, 1870. Raised
beloved members, Davi d Hillia rd Inman, bom Octo
5, 1894, demitted to
in Anna Lodge No. 520, Anna , Illinois, December
and 1923. demitted
1922
er
Yum a Lodge No. 17, Yuma, Arizona, Mast
received 50 year
1941,
2,
ry
to Jam es Madi son Lodg e No. 572 Janua
butto n Octo ber 17, 1953.
been in existence,
Notw ithsta nding the short period of time it has
e H. Morr iClaud
er,
Mast
its
lost
e
South ern Calif ornia Rese arch Lodg
Robert F.
and
ow
Morr
rose
Amb
r
Custe
son. Past Gran d Mast er, and
Shippee, both Past Mast ers.
y sadde ned by the
Whe n we meditate upon our losses we are deepl
our Past Gran d
upon
hand
y
heav
a
laid
again
realization that death has
Most Wor the
that
Mast ers. It was just a year ago on this very spot
y to the
eulog
iful
shipful Clau de How ard Morr ison delivered a beaut
moment
that
at
and
er,
memory of Past Gran d Mast er Will H. Fisch
him ere
ke
o'erta
d
woul
death
that
we little thoug ht nor little dream ed
Mast er
d
Gran
Past
ce
Servi
orial
Mem
this
he reach ed his home. Later in
ry.
Arth ur Pauls en will delivery a eulogy in his memo
25, 1954. The
April
died
Gist
Black
The Most Wors hipfu l James
rs little how
matte
it
but
,
ected
unexp
not
passing of Brother Gist was
for when the heav y
well we may fortify ourselves again st the inevitable
lled prepa redne ss.
affliction comes our grief is not lessened by our so-ca
morning pay our
this
will
The Most Wors hipfu l Lloyd E. Wils on
Gist.
respects to the.memory of James Black
purpose than the
If the Frate rnity of Free Masoriry served no other
y its existence.
justif
d
woul
cementing of friendships, then that alone
nce of this
evide
ient
suffic
bears
d
Our experience within the Brotherhoo
truth .
d Mast er, SunThe passing of Willi am Bray ton Ogde n, Past Gran ship that we
friend
ly
earth
an
d
ende
M.
day, September 12, at 4:30 A.
interjecting a perso nal
held most dear. The speak er canno t refra in from
intimately: a man
note at this point. Bill Ogde n was a man that I knew
Had it not been
.
that I admired greatly, and a man that I loved much
crossed. My
have
never
d
for this Frate rnity his path and mine woul
true friends
cause
And
l-"
ritua
mind g0es back to that portion of the
ined at a
rema
have
wise
other
t
migh
ship to exist among those who
r
orth Meye will give
perpe tual distan ce." The Most Wors hipfu l Ellsw
eulogy.
adeq uate expression of our thoug hts in a special
ROBE RT FLET CHER SHIPP EE

its most
Henry S. Orme Lodg e No. 458 of Los Ange les lost one of

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

229

Bob Shippee andistinguished Past Mast ers Sund ay, June 20th when
swere d the final call.
when abilit y
Bo? Shippee. was the produ ct of a past era. An era e diploma.
a colleg
and e~per1ence carrie d as much or more weig ht than
ded the public
atten
he
1897,
29th,
ry
Janua
City
York
Born 111 New
passe d the
and
office
er's
schools of that city, later read law in a lawy
rs.
hono
bar examination with
records show that
Whe n he came to Calif ornia we do not know. The
13, 1934, passe d
mber
Septe
e
he was initiated in Henr y S. Orme Lodg
same year. He
the
27th
mber
Nove
September 27, 1~34, and raised
Trest le Board
the
d
edite
he
er
Mast
Past
a
serve d as Mast er 111 1943. As
was a 32nd degree
and served as Officer's Coac h for many years . He
and Associate
Rite
Maso n of the Los Ange les Bodies of the Scottish
ber of the
mem
a
also
was
Edito r of the Scottish Rite Bulletin. He
associanal
frater
other
His
.
Research Lodge of South ern California
Loyal
the
and
Elks
of
r
Orde
ctive
Prote
tions were The Benevolent and
ittee
Comm
d Lodge
Orde r of Moose. He was a member of the Gran
d
Gran
other
on
acted
on Masonic Information for many years and also
_
es.
Lodg
king
Spea
ish
Lodge Committees, including that of Span
death
in
him
ded
Bob left no close relatives. His wife, Agne s, prece
in Marc h of 1952.
Lodge and in the
Thro ugh his long years of service both in his
ibution to Calif ornia
Gran d Lodge Bob Shipp ee made a tremendous contr
Maso nry.
CHAR LES THOM AS KENN EDY

of us practices its
o.ur Frate rnity is an individualistic society. Each
ty in which we
socie
of
m
teachings among the group and in the stratu
ons in life
positi
lest
humb
the
move. Our breth ren are to be found in
ind.
mank
of
span
the
cover
we
and also in the most exalted. Thus
No. 112
e
Lodg
it
Summ
C~arles Thom as Kennedy, Past Mast er of
ren.
child
g
amon
ing
work
of
ege
of Knights Ferry , had the rare privil
bus
l
Schoo
High
n
Unio
ale
Oakd
the
For man.y, many years he drove
into
grow
ngers
passe
first
his
saw
He
ale.
from Knights Ferry to Oakd
children became his
adulthood, and their children and their children's
ed the Biblical
follow
charges. In all his deali ngs with the children he
come unto me:
to
not,
them
injunction, "Suffer little children, and forbid
retirement to
his
of
year
The
en."
for of such is the Kingdom of Heav
high school
the
of
nts
stude
the
him,
for
ion
show their love and affect
dedicated the High School Year Book to him.
mber 20, 1890,
Broth er Kenn edy was raised in Summit Lodge Dece
April 4, 1954.
death
his
until
ership
memb
s
and remained in continuou
in 1893-4. His record
A total of 64 years. He was Mast er of the Lodge
Before and after his
as an officer of the Lodge has few, it any, equals.

231

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

occupancy of the Oriental Chair he served two years as Junior Steward,
twelve years as Senior Steward, twelve years as Senior Deacon, and two
years as Senior Warden. An unusual record, a remarkable man.
Brother Kennedy held the banner of Masonry high and we are proud
to list his name as one of our honored dead.
We mourn the passing of our brethren but we do not question God's
wisdom nor his right to call them. We give the Great Light our deepest
thanks that they were with us and of us and they shall ever remain
beautiful thoughts in our garden of memory. The poet has beautifully
expressed it:
"To a Beautiful Garden these friends have gone
To the land of perfect rest.
Their work is done. and the setting sun
Has sealed their life's long quest.
They have left this earthly garden
For a home beyond the sea,
Though they have gone, they still live on
In our Gafden of Memory."

ated from Lake Forest College in 1910. Soon afterward he moved to
San Diego to establish his permanent home.
In 1913 he married Miss Daisy Bentley. a graduate of Northwestern
University. His charming and gracious wife, three lovely daughters,
two fine sons and nine splendid grandchildren survive him.
Shortly after his arrival in California, Brother Morrison was em ..
ployed by the First National Bank of San Diego. To talents of no
ordinary measure he added an infinite capacity for intensive work.
While others slumbered, he toiled; earnest and careful preparation for
his tasks was habitual. With characteristic skill and devotion to duty
he earned promotion after promotion and at the time of his death he was
Vice President of the bank and a member of its Board of Directors.
In the business world his judgment was highly respected. He was
fearless but fair in the discharge of his duties, gave everyone a courteous
and impartial hearing, was always open to conviction but firm in his
judgments when formed.
He gave unstintingly of his time in the furtherance of worthy public
enterprises and always sought to promote the welfare of his fellow men.
He was a virile citizen who ever stood courageously for decency and
right. His voice was always heard on the side of civic virtue. He was
active for many years in the affairs of the First Methodist Church.
Brother Morrison will long be remembered here because of his kindly
disposition, his sincere friendships and those sterling qualities that made
him a great Mason. For him, Masonry was a tool to be used for the
service of mankind and he performed that service with distinction in all
the Masonic Bodies.
Of his Masonic career. one of his San Diego brethren has appropriately said: "His activities ... covered a period of more than 40 years.
He was made a Master Mason in Pontiac Lodge No. 294 on February
23, 1911, demitted to San Diego Lodge No. 35 in 1921, and served as
Worshipful Master in 1924. He shortly afterward became active in
Grand Lodge affairs. After service as Grand Standard Bearer, as a
member of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and of
Finance, he was chosen, in 1940, to entered the Grand Lodge 'line,"
and in 1943 was elected and served with distinction as Grand Master
of Masons in California-the first and only Grand Master from San
Diego. He has since been chairman of the important Grand Lodge
Finance Committee.
He was coroneted as a Mason of the Thirty-third Degree in 1925
and has served, at various times, as presiding officer of all "the Scottish
Rite Bodies." In 1928 he was Illustrious Potentate of Al Bahr Temple
of the Shrine." He was the first Master of Southern California Research Lodge.
Though the recipient of many honors, he never came to regard

230

RovC.BRYAN
Ross K. RoPER
CHESTER H. GJERDE
HARRY P. HEIDENREICH
RovV. MARSH

EULOGY
CLAUDE HOWARD MORRISON

By ARTHUR PAULSEN, Past Grand Master
It was with heavy hearts that his many friends throughout the state,
and particularly those of us who worked with him at the last annual
communication of Grand Lodge. learned of the sudden and untimely
death of Most Worshipful Claude H. Morrison on November 2, 1953.
As was his custom, he had attended all the functions of Grand Lodge
and had labored long and diligently as chairman of the Finance Committee to prepare and submit its report. When that task was finished
he was greatly in need of rest and he looked forward to a period of
travel and relaxation. Immediately following the session, he and Mrs.
Morrison journeyed to Washington, D. C. where he attended the Su..
preme Council. On his way home he stopped at Detroit to take possession of a new car and then proceeded to New Orleans. Shortly after
his arrival there he was taken ill and rushed to a hospital. where he
passed away that same afternoon.
Brother Morrison was born in Pontiac, Illinois on July 10, 1887. He
received his education in the public schools of Pontiac and was gradu-

232

i33

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

GRAND LODGE. OP CALIFORNIA

him.self too seriously. The door of his office was always open to anyone.
No problem was too insignificant to merit his full attention, and none
too large but that he was able and willing to offer his very sound advice
regarding it. It probably is safe to say that there is scarcely any brother
who has served as Worshipful Master of his Lodge or as an Inspector
in this area during the past 30 years who has not, at one time or another,
gone to Claude Morrison for counsel and help with his problem.
"Scholarly but modest, capable but not self-seeking. basically serious but with a keen sense of humor-he was able to achieve, to a remarkable degree, that ~lance of personality" which Masonry teaches, "and
which he always exemplified as, over the years," he proceeding along
the paths of Masonry.
"He was a man among men and a Mason among Masons-a true
Grand Master among our ancient craft of builders. His richest possession was that which money can never buy-the love and respect of all
who knew him. Albert Pike once said: 'To live on in the hearts of those
we leave behind is not to die.' Of Claude Morrison, we can with all
sincerity say: 'He yet lives in all our hearts, and ever shall'."

National Bank of Los Angeles, following which he became a member
of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Trust Committee of
that bank.
Brother Gist was raised a Master Mason in Pentalpha Lodge No.
202. October 17, 1899, by Most Worshipful William Rhodes Hervey,
P. G. M. who presented to Brother Gist his 50-year Veteran's Button
in a ceremony which will long be remembered by those who were
fortunate enough to attend. Brother Gist served his Lodge as Worshipful Master in 1905, was an Inspector in 1906-1907, and then served
on various committees until his election as Junior Grand Warden in
1930, after which he became Grand Master in 1933. It was during
his term as Grand Master that Grand Lecturer Thomas J. Baker died
and under the leadership of Brother Gist our present ritualistic system
was established.
·
He was a member of Melrose Chapter 140, R. A. M.: Southern
Council 35, R. S. M.; Golden West Commandery 43, Knights Templar:
Saint Gabriel Conclave 14 of the Red Cross of Constantine: Al Malaikah Temple of the Shrine: and the Los Angeles Bodies of the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite. In the Scottish Rite he received his 32nd
degree in 1907, was honored with the decoration of Knight Commander
of the Court of Honor in 1915, and was Coroneted an Inspector General
Honorary of the 33rd degree in 1919.
Closest to the heart of Brother Gist in all his Masonic service, was
the Masonic Homes of California, and for nearly 30 years he gave
outstanding ss:rvice as a member of the Board of Trustees. It was in
this work that his wide experience as a capable business man became
most evident and yet, his own great concern for the old people and for
the children, always demanded that kindliness and Christian concern
for their welfare should be the basis upon which judgments should be
made. With all his seriousness and deep concern about the affairs of
Masonry, he had a delightful sense of humor and more than once a
difficult and trying situation was relieved and resolved by a humorous
remark from Jim. If ever it could be said about a man that "he was a
Christian gentleman," James Black Gist deserved that accolade.
We have sadly missed him during the years of his illness. We shall
long continue to miss his good counsel. his leadership, and the man
himself.

EULOGY
JAMES BLACK GIST

By LLOYD E. WILSON, Past Grand Master
Among the stalwarts of this Grand Lodge for whom no designs are
drawn upon the Trestle Board because they no longer labor in the
Temple, James Black Gist stands out as a Master Craftsman. His
contribution to the cause of Freemasonry in California is more than
that of the ordinary leader because he labored in so many and varied
capacities to which he brought vast experience, great devotion, and
steadfastness to the principles and ideals of the Fraternity.
Born in Tompkinsville, Kentucky, August 8, 1868, he counted among
his ancestors in the Gist family of Maryland many distinguished leaders
of the Revolutionary War as well as of Freemasonry. He was brought
to California in 1875 and his entire life thereafter was spent in this
State in the service of his fellow citizens, particularly in the Christian
Church, of which he was an active member, and in the Masonic Lodge
which he loved so well.
Luella Hatch, to whom he was married in 1890, and his devoted
companion for more than 64 years, survives him as does their daughter,
Velma, Mrs. Elbridge R. Thrapp. A son, Charles Wooster Gist, Past
Master of Pentalpha Lodge, pre-deceased his father.
After entering upon a career of Accountancy with the Southern
Pacific Railroad, Brother Gist turned to banking and at the time of his
retirement several years ago. was Vice President of the Security First

234

235

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EULOGY

degrees of Masonry, but actually received the three degrees in Hollywood Lodge in 1918. He served as Master of that lodge in 1925 and
was appointed Inspector for the seventy-seventh district in 1926, an
office which he held until 1936. Perhaps you will pardon the personal
element inherent in the observation that his district included Beverly
Hills Lodge, the lodge of our present Grand Master; Cahuenga Lodge,
that of the chairman of our Committee on Necrology and Liberal Arts
Lodge, my own and that each of us served as Master while Brother
Ogden was Inspector.
Our brother served this grand lodge in numerous other capacities:
the Committee on Correspondence, 1925-6; Grand Orator, 1936; Junior
Grand Warden, 1937; Senior Grand Warden, 1938; and at the communication in 1939, when for reasons of health Deputy Grand Master
Waste had to decline further office, he was elected Grand Master.
During Brother Ogden's year as Grand Master, he covered all portions of our extensive jurisdiction and faithfully discharged the duties
of his office. At the end of that year he was appointed to the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes, to the chairmanship of which committee he succeeded at our last annual communication.
Brother Ogden received the degrees of Royal Arch Masonry, Temparlism and the Scottish Rite in Los Angeles. He was decorated a
Knight Commander of the Court of Honor in 1939 and coroneted with
the Thirty-third Degree in 1945. He was also a member of the Order
of the Red Cross of Constantine and the Order of the Eastern Star.
So, in this hour, we look at the work of Brothers Morrison, Gist and
Ogden and pronounce our benediction: Well done, thou good and faithful servants. To which we add, as the haunting notes of Taps go forth:
Farewell, farewell until we meet again.

WILLIAM B. OGDEN

By ELLSWORTH MEYER, Past Grand Master
Sitting here on the platform listening to the strains from the organ,
the voice of the soloist, the report of the chairman of the committee and
the two eulogies just given of Past Grand Masters Morrison and Gist,
the truth of the statement by a late Past Grand Master that we Masons
are sentimental men has again been brought to mind. We are men of
sentiment and proud of that fact. Here in this annual memorial hour
we give proof. when we speak of the men of this grand lodge who have
demitted to the celestial lodge above during the past year.
Among those who have left our midst during the past year was
William Brayton Ogden, Grand Master during the calendar year of
1940. He was a thoroughgoing American in thought, speech and deed.
As with the two Past Grand Masters whose eulogiums we have just
heard, he came from a line of ancestors first identified with America in
very early days, although he himself was not born within the territorial
limits of the United States.
The first ancestor of our departed brother to come to the American
colonies did so in 1641. But another, of Quaker persuasion and a resident of New Jersey, removed the family domicile to Canada during the
turbulent days of the American Revolution.
It was there in Picton, in the Province of Ontario, that William
Brayton Ogden was born on August 26, 1876 in the same house in which
his father and grandfather had first seen the light of day. But his residence in Canada was of short duration, for when he was but six months
of age his family returned to the United States and took up residence in
the state of New York.
Billie, as he was known and called by all his friends, received his
education in the schools of New York; Chicago, Illinois; and Boulder,
Colorado. He was graduated from the University of Colorado with the
degree LL.B. in 1896 and began the practice of law in Boulder. Five
years later he removed to Chicago and in 1905 to Goldfield, Nevada.
It was in 1910 that he took up residence in Los Angeles and resided
there the remainder of his life.
Mrs. Ogden and he were united in marriage in 1911 and together
they have walked the pathway of life until his passing on September
twelfth.
As with our Brothers Morrison and Gist, he was singularly active
in the affairs of his church. He and his mother are credited with the
establishment of the mission which· became St. John's Parish of the
Episcopal Church in the Hollywood area and he served the parish as
vestryman and in other offices in subsequent years.
In 1903, while a resident of Chicago, he was elected to receive the

236

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

PAST MASTERS OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
California Lodge No. l: ·
Lee Crawford, died September 27, 1953
Tehama Lodge No. 3:
Edward Adams, died December 11, 1953.
Corinthian Lodge No. 9:
Charles Francis Aaron, died September 6, 1953.
Harry Garnett Hughes, died April 24, 1954.
San Jose Lodge No. 10:
Paul Sibley Williams, died October 21, 1953.
Leroy Paul Kantlehner, died March 24, 1954.
Nevada Lodge No. 13:
Horace A. Curnow, died August 17, 1953.
Temple Lodge No. 14:
Peter Frank McGill, died April 2, 1954.
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19:
Ernest Albert Simard, died July 31, 1954.
Mariposa Lodge No. 24:
Maynard Henry McElligott, died July 6, 1954.
Georgetown Lodge No. 25:
Herman Mervine Youngson, died May 15, 1954.
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32:
Roscoe Allen, died March 3, 1954.
San Diego Lodge No. 35:
Claude Howard Morrison, P.G.M., died November 2, 1953.
A. Harry Severson, died November 23, 1953.
Howard Lodge No. 37:
Jerome Percy Churchill, died July 11, 1954.
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38:
.William Caleb Izant, died December 4, 1953.
Harry Elwin Piper, died July 24, 1954.
Fred Merrill Garrison, died December 31, 1953.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
Max G. Samuels, died April 11, 1954.
Illinoistown Lodge No. 51:
Allen Granville Thurman, died January 29, 1954.
Suisun Lodge No. 55:
Thomas Oliver Dowell, died May 21, 1954.
Volcano Lodge No. 56:
Charles Fred Stewart, died March 8, 1954.
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57:
Clarence Grove, died August 3, 1953.
Milton Ladd Kingsbury, died April 16 1954.
Marvin Thomas Vaughan, died June lS, 1954.
Natoma Lodge No. 64:
Dean Earl Shannon, died December 1, 1953.
Morning Star Lodge No. 68:
John Henry Miller, died December 31, 1953.
Durrett Oliver Castle, died May 8, 1954.
Calaveras Lodge No. 78:
George Elmer Deitz, died May 18, 1954.
Naval Lodge No. 87:
Mark Theodore Andrews, died May 26, 1954.
Henry Clay Lodge No. 95:
Charles William Geller, died March 28, 1954.
Charles Edwin Richards, died June 21, 1954.
Yosemite Lodge No. 99:
Alfred William Petersen, died February 22, 1954.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Lexington Lodge No. 104:

Thomas Pollard, Jr., died June 24, 1954.
PaJaro Lodge No. 110:
Jacob Foster, died September 30, 1953.
Summit Lodge No. 112:
Charles Thomas Kennedy, died April 4, 1954.
Eden Lodge No. 113:
Allen Eli Pelton, died February 23, 1954.
Walter Shorb McKaig, died February 24, 1954.
Sydney Briggs Force, died April 17, 1954.
Alamo Lodge No. 112:
Bert James Blade, died June l, 1954.
Joseph E. Lawrence, died October 9, 1953.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123:
Reubin Edward Baer, died May 3, 1954.
Lafayette Lodge No. 126:
Charles Henry King, died November 2 1953.
William Millard Rickard, died November 5, 1953.
Concord Lodge No. 117:
Ralph Hall Langer, died July 16, 1954.
Robert Leopold Hery, died July 27, 1954.
Visalia Lodge No. 128:
Marshall Shiffert, died June 27, 1954.
Nicolaus Lodge No. 129:
Lore! E. Middleton, died March 23, 1954.
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131:
Paul Templar Nesbit, died February 4, 1954
Valley Lodge No. 135:
Warren Winning Hill, died December 14, 1953.
Pacific: Lodge No. 136:
Harold R. Jacobs, died September 30, 1953.
William J. McAllister, died December 7, 1953.
George H. Raymond, died June 3, 1954.
Allen J. Rosenberg, died June 1, 1954.
Abell Lodge Nb. 146:
Ernest Gunner Spjuth, died September 17, 1953.
Woodland Lodge No. 158
George L. Stivers, died December 28, 1953.
Keystone Lodge No. 161:
Francis Robert Hood, died August 6, 1953.
Alvin I. Prowse, died September 15, 1953.
Mission Lodge No. 169:
George Alexander Hansen, died July 7, 1954.
Petaluma Lodge No. 180:
John Alexander Olmst.ed, died October 22, 1953.
Clear Lake Lodge No. 183:
Louis Jago, died February 13, 1954.
Sierra Valley Lodge No. 184:
William Andrew Diltz, died January 12, 1954.
Claiborne Lodge No. 185:
Gustave I. Hoffman, died December 1, 1953.
Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Robert Brainerd Gaylord, died August 4, 1953.
Frank Alfred West, died March 23, 1954.
Northern Light Lodge No. 190:
James Walter Cochron, died November 28, 1953.
Marin Lodge No. 191:
Roy Hooper Bowman, died April 2, 1954.
Elmer Lawrence Nielsen, died May 13, 1954.

237

238

PROCEEDINGS OP THI!

Banta Barbara Lodge No. 192:
John Pilcher Smith, died October 15, 1953.
Ferndale Lodge No. 193:
Robert Hunter Smith, died April 17, 1954.
Mountain View Lodge No. 194:
Hans Virtus Lund, died March 12, 1954.
Buckeye Lodge No. 195:
Edgar Lawrence Bryan, died June 14, 1954.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
James Black Gist, P. G. M., died April 25, 1954.
Olivet Lodge No. 205:
Clarence B. Wharton, died May 2, 1954.
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206:
Sylvan Simon Latz, died February 14, 1954.
Clyde Ross Gill, died March 23, 1954.
Rio Vista Lodge No. 208:
Roger Stowe Turney, died December 20, 1953.
King David's Lodge No. 209:
Earl S. Wise, died April 5, 1954.
Francis Horatio Throop, died July 19, 1954.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212:
James Chalmers, died September 2, 1953.
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214:
Fred E. Mercer, died December 18, 1953.
Oak GJ'OVe Lodge No. 215:
Milton Collins Godfrey, died January 20, 1954.
Doric Lodge No. 216:
Cyrus Burr McCroskey, died December 6, 1953.
Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219:
James Carnesecca, died September 24, 1953.
Downey Lodge No. 220:
Samuel Featherstone Unsworth, died December 11, 1953.
Inyo Lodge No. 221:
John Clifford Baxter, died November 5, 1953.
Athens Lodge No. 228:
John Frederick Henle, died September 15, 1953.
Solano Lodge No. 229:
Lucien Paul Dunne, died September 9, 1952.
North Butte Lodge No. 230:
Sewell John Young, died April 17, 1954.
Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236:
Joseph Floyd Pearce, died May 5, 1954.
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243:
Henry August Schafer, died June 10, 1954.
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244:
Henry Adolph Meese, died September 2, 1953.
Fresno Lodge No. 247:
Ben Randall Walker, died April 29, 1954.
Lodi Lodge No. 258r
Alexander Valentine Friedberger, died November 9, 1953.
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258:
John Quincy Crabtree, died January 23, 1954.
George Sanderson, died January 23, 1954.
George C. Henny, died June 12, 1954.
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260:
Ralph Baldwin Sinclair, died December 13, 1953.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Lompoc Lodge No. 262:
William Alfred Meyers, died December 6, 1953
·
Lloyd Alonzo Shutts, died May 3, 1954.
Delbert Randall Daniels, died May 20, 1954.
Hesperian Lodge No. 264:
Albert Allen Dudley, died December 5, 1953.
Nozth East Lodge No. 266:
Fred Meyers, died December 24, 1953.
Harry Kenneth Hanks, died July 30, 1954.
Olive Branch No. 269:
Hobart Ellsworth Stalker, died December 26 1953
·
Eugene Allers Sweet, died March 16, 1954. '
Snow Mountain Lodge No. 271:
Samuel E. Stites, died July 14, 1954.
Arroyo Lodge No. 274:
James Budd Frazier, died March 19, 1954.
Evergreen Lodge No. 259:
Donald Galen Adams, died June 2, 1954.
:ftufus Garland Jones, died March 6, 1954.
James MacDougal, died May 23, 1954.
Tuscan Lodge No. 261:
Ralph Franklin Fouch, died October 5, 1953.
James Albert Robinson, died March 14, 1954.
Hanford Lodge No. 279:
John Ewell Hall, died August 22, 1953.
Elsinore Lodge No. 289:
John Egelund, died October 8, 1953.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292:
Douglas White Helm, died September 28, 1953.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293:
Emery Edgar Kirkwood, died May 14, 1954.
Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295:
Harry Wilbut Justis, die~ September 18, 1953.
Charles Bruce Watson, died September 27, 1953
Lee Gaudenzio Morelli, died October 30, 1953. ·
Liberty Lodge No. 299:
Donald Laurence MacChesney, died April 13, 1954
·
Wirt Spalsbury Bennett, died April 16, 1954.
Frederick Herman Mehlhorn, died May 25, 1954.
Ontario Lodge No. 301:
George H. Swindells, died November 7, 1953.
Azusa Lodge No. 305:
John William Calvert, died November 22, 1953.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308:
William Joyner Cornes, died March 28, 1954.
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313:
Constantine George Koutroulis, died June 7, 1954
Edward Benjamin Atkinson, died April 1, 1954. ·
Norwalk Lodge No. 315:
Walter E. Leonard, died September 30, 1953.
Alisa! Lodge No. 321:
Claude Insley Freeman, died January 4, 1954.
Robert Earl Cope, died January 31, 1954.
Redondo Lodge No. 328:
Ernest Clark Heath, died March 3, 1954.
John Arch Middleton, died February 12, 1954.
Kilauea Lodge No. 330:
Robert Forbes, died July 8, 1954.

240

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Paclfi c Gron Lodge No. 331:
Henry Garfie ld Jorgen sen, died April 17, 1954.
West Gate Lodge No. 335:
Henry Washi ngton Louis, died Octob er 20, 1953.
David Blumb erg, died Novem ber 1, 1953.
Jay Berth old Jacobs , died Novem ber 22, 1953.
Benja min Josep h Schein man, died Febru ary 18, 1954.
Fuller ton Lodge No. 339:
John H. Lang, died Augu st 1, 1953.
Leslie Holt Marsh all, died Octob er 13, 1953.
Norm an Austin Foster , died May 25, 1954.
Oxnar d Lodge No. 341:
Rober t Marcu s Wrigh t, died Febru ary 2, 1954.
San Ferna ndo Lodge No. 343:
Herbe rt Marti n Foster , died July 19, 1954.
McKi nley Lodge No. 347:
John James Cowar d, died Augus t 18, 1953.
Pinole Lodge No. 353:
Steph en Johns ton, died Octob er 23, 1953.
Presid io Lodge No. 354:
John Burke Glenn ie, died April 16, 1954.
Mill Valley Lodge No. 356:
Arthu r Frede rick Thom as, died Febru ary 1, 1954.
Samu el Murdo ck Burt, died April 1, 1954.
Frank Clinto n Herric k, died April 2, 1954.
Buena Park Lodge No. 357:
Herbe rt Frank Hunt, died Novem ber 16, 1953.
Walte r .D allas Ledfo rd, died Decem ber 6, 1953.
Lu Palma s Lodge No. 366:
Ernes t Dusen berry, died Janua ry 14, 1954.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369:
John Ward Wood ward, died Octob er 23, 1953.
Le Progr es de L 'Ocean ie Lodge No. 371:
Charle s Henry Pfeiffe r, died Augus t 15, 1953.
West Loa Angel es Lod'e No. 373:
John Henry Dobbm gs, died Septe mber 7, 1953.
Richm ond Lodge No. 375:
John Alfred Johns on, died April 28, 1954.
Miapa h Lodge No. 378:
Leo Claire mont, died Septe mber 24, 1953.
Willia m Cliffo rd Wells, died Febru ary 17, 1954.
Ocean side Lodge No. 381:
Alfred Steven s Glasg ow, died Janua ry 28, 1954.
Highl and Park Lodge No. 382:
Charle s Oscar Britta in, died Octob er 2, 1953. 1953.
Willia m Raym ond Drake , died Novem ber 4,
Orosi Lodge No. 383:
Georg e Thom as Jadwi n, died March 12, 1954.
Dinub a Lodge No. 385:
Abne r Fraser , died Decem ber 6, 1953.
Palos Verde s Lodge No. 389:
Hayle r Owen Shuste r, died March 1, 1954.
Unive rsity Lodge No. 394:
Elmer Edwa rd Ander son, died Octob er 21, 1953.
Charle s Crosb y Carter , died July 18, 1954.
•
Apollo Lodge No. 396:
John Edwin Hamil ton, died Septe mber 27, 1953.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397:
Frank Theod ore Thom pson, died May 21, 1954.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Frater nity Lodge No. 399:
Willia m Frede rick Anthe s, Jr., died May 8, 1954.
Burlin game Lodge No. 400:
Willia m Peet, died March 2, 1954.
Frede rick Dougl as Lorton , died March 14, 1954.
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403:
Earle Vince nt Steven son, died Jurie 9, 1954.
Paul Alonz o Mario tte, died July 24, 1954.
Mone ta Lodge No. 405:
Willia m Henry Bogar t, died Janua ry 7, 1954.
Georg e Foster Warto us, died July 13, 1954.
Burba nk Lodge No. 406:
Ray Gorin Ludlo w, died Septe mber 16, 1953.
Willia m Henry Hoist, died June 26, 1954.
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408:
Henry Rintel man, died June 26, 1954.
John Denni stoun Macke rras, died July 12, 1954.
Chart er Rock Lodge No. 410:
John Absol om "B" Fry, died March 30, 1954.
Perris Lodge No. 411:
Tom Lee Sharp e, died May 3, 1954.
Calex ico Lodge No. 412:
Paul Pierre Ander son, died March 3, 1954.
Arling ton Lodge No. 414:
Arthu r Tagga rt Jackso n, died Decem ber 19, 1953.
Charle s Edgar Spaul ding, died May 18, 1954.
Silver Trowe l Lodge No. 415:
Franc is Sidne y Brenn an, died Augus t 13, 1953.
Linds ay Lodge No. 416:
James Edwin Palme r, died March 10, 1954.
Georg e Ezra Trull, Sr., died March 15, 1954.
Leste r Lewis Lighth all, died May 17, 1954.
Kerm an Lodge No. 420:
Fred Anson Smith , died May 15, 1954.
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422:
John Hartle y Taylo r, died Decem ber 2, 1953.
Aaron Edwa rd Kilpat rick. died Augus t 16, 1953.
Winst on Evans Squire , died Augus t 27, 1953.
York Lodge No. 423:
Egber t Turne r Barre tt, died Septe mber 15, 1953.
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427:
Hiram G. Shafe r, died Septe mber 21, 1953.
John C. LeCla ir, died Octob er 5, 1953.
Otho T. Wrigh t, died May 7, 1954.
Pittsb urg Lodge No. 429:
Georg e Berna rd Arent z, died Augus t 16, 1953.
McClo ud Lodge No. 430:
Georg e Henry Runck el, died March , 1954.
Ray Willia m Hatha way, died June 9, 1954.
Hamm onton Lodge No. 433:
Hiram Harris on Richa rd, died Decem ber 1, 1953.
Lanca ster Lodge No. 437:
Jesse Milton Hoski ns, died May 10, 1954.
Georg e Milton Rush, died March 28, 1954.
Clovis Lodge No. 417:
Christ opher Kastn er, died April 5, 1954.
Coron ado Lodge No. 441:
Russe ll Lee Kenne tt, died June 6, 1954.
Schofield Lodge No. 443:
Leo Berna rd Rodby , died Decem ber 19, 1953.

241

242

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Wilshire Lodge No. 445:
William Howard Fischer, died October 4, 1953.
Ernest LeRoy Webster, died January 16, 1954.
Torrance Lodge No. 447:
Robert Borden Park, died July 19, 1954.
Park Lodge No. 449:
Arthur William Brouillet, died September 18, 1953.
Golden West Lodge No. 455:
Robert Lee Husted, died February 23, 1954.
Paul Ferdinand Doring, died June 3, 1954.
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458:
Carimon Judson Cresmer, died April 12, 1954.
Robert Fletcher Shippee, died June 20, 1954.
Riverbank Lodge No. 459:
Charles Henry Giller, died April 17, 1954.
Argonaut Lodge No. 461:
Homer Perry Thyle, died October 10, 1953.
Joel Harold Springer, Sr., died September 19, 1953.
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464:
Harry Guthrie Hansell, died March 26, 1954.
Libertas Lodge No. 466:
·
Gerald Trent Fowler, died June 9, 1954.
Roc:kridge Lodge No. 468:
Frank Lake Wilson, died January 31, 1954.
Morris Elwood Bruner, died January 8, 1954.
Delta Lodge No. 471:
Frederick William Moore, February 6, 1954.
Maui Lodge No. 472:
Oswald Bernard Steven, died July 1, 1954.
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479:
Albert Edan Sandbo, died February 2, 1954.
Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481:
Herbert Edson Hall, died July 9, 1954.
East Bay Lodge No. 489:
Arthur Cecil Green, died November 1, 1953.
Corcoran Lodge No. 490:
James Curtis Condon, died October 30, 1953.
Woodstock Lodge No. 491:
Frederick Bues McAtee, died May 24, 1954.
Atascadero Lodge No. 493:
Alvin Leon Woodin, died November 24, 1953.
Charles William Starkey, died May 24, 1953. ·
Acorn Lodge No. 494:
Robert Hervey Wright, died January 11, 1954.
Lebanon Lodge No. 495:
Alexander E. W. Rocfort, died March 11, 1954.
Stockton Lodge No. 498:
Samuel Morris Learner, died June 29, 1954.
Roosevelt Lodge No. 500:
Gerald Edward Monheim, died May 22, 1954.
Seaside Lodge No. 504:
Edward Byron Burgess, died June 4, 1954.
John Whetter, died July 28, 1954.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506:
George Dewey Callarman, died February 1, 1954.
Argonne Lodge No. 514:
Sam Houston Hardin, died May 2, 1954.
Joseph Jerome Quigley, died May 29, 1954.
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515:
Ford Earl Jackson, died April 30, 1954.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Euclid Lodge No. 519:
George Sexton Strait, died September 13, 1953.
Sunrise Lodge No. 522:
Douglas Almon Baker, died November 16, 1953.
Bellnower Lodge No. 523:
Albert Victor Heaman, died December 8, 1953.
Harry A. Lancing Canfield, died December 26, 1953.
George Washington Lodge No. 525:
John Frederick Mills, Sr., died March 17, 1954.
Covenant Lodge No. 527:
William Best Clark, died November 11, 1953.
David Thomas Evans, died May 13, 1954.
Sun Garden Lodge No. 530:
Embrey Lambert Burtner, died June 18, 1954.
Forest Hill Lodge No. 534:
Chester William Johnson, died December 12, 1953.
Ascot Lodge No. 538:
Byron Lester Sackett, died March 22, 1954.
Belvedere Lodge No. 539:
Evan Harold Davies, died June 24, 1954.
Glendale Lodge No. 544:
Alanson Swain, died January 31, 1954.
Justice Lodge No. 549:
William Reid Campbell, died April 14, 1954.
Hermosa Lodge No. 557:
Edmond Virgil Wahlberg, died April 2, 1954.
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559:
Charles Samuel Hall. died January 12, 1954.
Plymouth Lodge No. 560:
William Cyril Rawson, died June 3, 1954.
Foothill Lodge No. 564:
Clarence Oscar Artz, died January 17, 1954.
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569:
David Leroy Babcock, died February 5, 1954.
James Madison Lodge No. 572:
David Hilliard Inman, died October 17, 1953.
Harry Green, died October 6, 1953.
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576:
Harry Haskell Hill, died November 11, 1953.
Frederick Alzarci Springstead, died October 23, 1953.
Progressive Lodge No. 578:
William Hubert Durham, died July 19, 1954.
Wasco Lodge No. 583:
James Harl Tener, died July 16, 1954.
Harding Lodge No. 584:
George Conrad Wagner, died January 23, 1954.
William August Jepson, died June 24, 1954.
El Sereno Lodge No. 588:
Clarence Baltensperger Schwendeman, died August 6, 1953.
Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595:
Melvin Evans Tompkins, died February 7, 1954.
Carmelita Lodge No. 599:
Charles McElroy Fueller, died July 31, 1954.
Glassell Park Lodge No. 605:
George Wilson Hopp, died April 17, 1954.
Temple City Lodge No. 612:
Carl OscarFaugust Noid, died September 25, 1953.
Three Pillars Lodge No. 613:
Charles Edward Frazier, died August 11, 1953.
Hemet Lodge No. 615:
Alexander Watt, died July 27, 1954.

243

244

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

R. E. Dolley Loc:lge No. 616:

William David Barraclough, died October 10, 1953.
James Joseph Walders, died February 22, 1954.

The Gardens Loc:lge No. 621:

George Vaughn Jameson, died July 15, 1954.

Atwater Loc:lge No. 622:

Claude Merle Sherrard, died April 22, 1954.

Fortitude Loc:lge No. 624:

Andries Hermanus van Eck, died September 23, 1953.

Truth Loc:lge No. 628:

Reginald Wymess Chipman, died October 5, 1953.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

245

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-THURSDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1954
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A. M .• the Grand Master presiding.
The Very Reverend Grand Chaplain in his prayer directed the
attention of the Brethren to the need for more light.
The minutes of the morning session of Wednesday, October 13th,
were read and approved.

Fairview Loc:lge No. 629:

Joseph Evans Steenrod, died June 10, 1954.

Palisades Loc:lge No. 637:

Claude Charles Crawford, died December 8, 1953.

Indian Rock Loc:lge No. 638:

Hubert Francis Stanley, died December 4, 1953.
James Russell Esty, died April 29, 1954.

Citrol Loc:lge No. 656:

Henry Alexander Rudd, died May 29, 1954.

John D. Spreckels Loc:lge No. 657:

William Walter Massie, died May 14, 1954.

John P. Jarman Loc:lge No. 669:

Matthew Henry Kent, died February 14, 1954.

San Clemente Loc:lge No. 671:

Trafford Huteson, died May 29, 1954.

Far West Loc:lge No. 673:

George Earl Crocker, died February 5, 1954.

Liberal Arts Loc:lge No. 677:

William Penn Warmack, died January 2, 1954.
Kenneth Lyall Scott, died April 28, 1954.

Meudell Loc:lge No. 695:

Frank Moses Wilkson, died July 15, 1954.

Saint Elmo Loc:lge No. 697:

John Wright Haugh, died September 19, 1953.

Wm. D. Stephens Loc:lge No. 698:

Robert M. McCallum, died July 11, 1954.

Southern California Research Loc:lge:

Claude Howard Morrison, P.G.M., died November 2, 1953.
Custer Ambrose Morrow, died April 13, 1954.
Robert Fletcher Shippee, died June 20, 1954.

At 12:00 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A. M.,
Thursday.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RITUAL
-To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
FLAG CEREMONY
The Committee on Ritual reports on the resolution relative to the
Flag Ceremony which was ref erred to it for recommendation.
The resolution proposes two changes in the ceremony of Reception
of the Flag.
The flrst change is to make the movements of the deacons correspond to those in the Retirement of the Flag, namely to have the Deacons
go to the Altar with the Marshal when he retires. This change would
automatically make the same change in the Reception of Grand Lodge
Officers, since at page 58 of the Monitor it is provided that the "movements of Marshal and Deacons are same as in Flag ceremony."
The secortd change is to add what is now actually done in practice,
that is after placing the Flag in the East, or just before taking it to
retire it, the Marshal places his right hand over his heart.
The committee recommends one slight additional change in Retirement of the Flag. We recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the ceremony of Reception of the Flag (p.53 of
Monitor) .b e amended to read as follows:
After the lodge has opened, Master says: Brother Marshal, you will
retire and present the Flag of our Country.
Marshal rises, makes sign and goes to the Altar. As Marshal turns
to go to Altar, Deacons rise, take rods, and go to Altar, arriving at the
same time as Marshal. All make sign, about face and walk abreast to
the Tiler's door. Marshal opens door and goes out. Senior Deacon
takes place on north side and Junior Deacon on south side of door,
facing East. Tiler opens door for Marshal on re-entering. ( ~tc. as in
. present ceremony, to the point on page 54, where Marshal places Flag
in stand provided. Then the following: )
Marshal steps back one step, places right hand over heart for an
instant, then drops hand to side; Master puts on hat, and brethren lower
right hand to side. (Etc. to end of present ceremony).

247

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

In the retirement o( the Flag (at top of page 55) the ceremony
would read as follows:
Marshal then goes to the East, one step back from Flag, and places
~ight hand over heart. Master takes off his hat with right hand, holding
1t at left shoulder, the hand being over the heart. Brethren (except
Marshal and Deacons) stand erect and place hand over heart as Master
places hat at his shoulder. Deacons at the same time drop rod diagonally
across body to left hand without removing butt of rod from the floor and
place right hand over heart. (All except Marshal and Deacons retain
this position until Flag is passed through the door to the Tiler). Marshl
drops hand and takes Flag, goes to the Altar and stands between the
Deacons. (Etc., as in present ceremony to "Marshal closes the door")
and then the following at the end of page 55 of the Monitor. "Marshal
and Deacons return to the Altar; all break at once and return to their
places."
Adopted . .

be granted, otherwise it must report at the next stated meeting, after
the application is referred to it. (Ross Dig., sec. 225) The proper time
for acting upon the request or declaring that further time be granted
would be under this second order of business. Third, the Committee
may make a favorable report, in which event the balloting upon the
application would follow, under the third order of business.
This resolution proposes to amend the Monitor to amplify the second
order of business ( p. 47) by setting forth the declarations by the Master
as to each of these three situations, and to amend the paragraph relating
to the third order of business by eliminating the statement as to the Committee report, that having been included in the procedure added to the
second order of business.
We, therefore, recommend the adoption of the resolution as follows:
RESOLVED. that the Monitor, page 47 of the present edition, be
amended as follows:
After " ( 2) Reports of Investigating Committees. (Read section
226, et seq., Ross Digest. Committee must report to Master and not
to Secretary. ) ", add the following:
"Brethren: The Committee upon the application of Mr. Henry
George Smith to receive the degrees of Masonry in this Lodge (or)
(upon the application of Brother Henry Alfred Smith for affiliation
with this Lodge) has made an unfavorable report, and I declare the
applicant rejected. (Gavel )
(and/or) The Committee upon the application of Mr. Edward David
Brown has reque~ted further time, and it is granted further time until
the next stated meeting of this Lodge. ( Gavel)
(and/or) The Committee upon the application of Mr. John James
Jones to receive the degrees of Masonry in this Lodge (or) (upon the
application of Brother John James Jones for affiliation with this Lodge)
has made a full and favorable report (or) ( favorable report)."
After " ( 3) Balloting," add the following in lieu of present wording:
" (Master rises) Brethren: We are about to ballot upon the application of Mr. John James Jones. His age is ........ : occupation ........:
residence ........: recommended by ........: and refers to ........ Brother Senior
Deacon, present the ballot," (Etc., as presently set forth in the Monitor.

246

ORDER OF BUSINESS AT STATED MEETINGS
The Grand Master has decided that the second order of business
at Stated Meetings, under Article XII of the Uniform Code of By-Laws
(Ross Dig., sec. 133), namely, "Reports of Committees," means, and
should be construed to mean, "Reports of Investigating Committees,"
and that reports of other committees are to be made and considered
under the fifth order of business, namely, "Miscellaneous and Unfinished
Business."
The Monitor adopted by Grand Lodge has for many years followed
this interpretation of the By-laws. (See pages 46-49 of present edition
of Monitor and Officers' Manual). For many years, however, there has
existed an inconsistency in that, under the second order of business at
page 47 of the Monitor, nothing whatever is set forth except a direction
to read sections 226 et seq. of Ross Digest, while under the third order
of business, "Balloting," the Master gives the report of the investigating
committee by stating that the Committee has made a full and favorable
report, a report which should be made under the second order of business.
Investigating Committees may make three different reports, to be
acted upon by the Master or the Lodge, only one of which is followed by
a ballot. First, the committee may make an unfavorable report, if one
or more members report unfavorably. In such case "no ballot shall be
had, but the Master shall upon the reception of such report, declare the
applicant rejected." (Ross Dig., sec. 228) The proper time for reception of such report and action thereon by the Master is under this second
order of business. Second, the Committee may request that further time

Adopted.

USE OF CHARTS
Your Committee on Ritual to which was referred two resolutions,
one by the Master of Menlo Park Lodge No. 651, and one by the Master
and Wardens of Friendship Lodge No. 210, relating to use of the socalled "charts," report thereon as follows:

248

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Under Section 247 of the Ordinances, each Degree and all lectures
must be in conformity with the ritual now taught by the Grand Lecturer
and recognized by the Grand Lodge.
The present Ritual Committee has heretofore ruled that the use of
slides and other pictorial representations constitutes no part of the
Master's lectures as taught in this jurisdiction, and that no other aids
can be employed than the Monitor.
One other consideration is that if our work is to be uniform and
charts were permitted to be used, their use should be mandatory and
not optional.
The use of these so-called "charts" has however been prohibited
by the Grand Lecturer and Ritual Committee for several years, on the
further grounds that all of these charts exhibit esoteric portions of our
ritual and symbols in violation of our law. (Ross Digest, Sects. 502-504)
and constitute a violation of our obligations. We are firmly of the opinion these so-called "charts" can not be used in this jurisdiction without
changing the entire concept of secrecy of our esoteric work. .
We therefore recommend that the resolutions .be not adopted.
Adopted.

service for presentation at the next annual communication of
Grand Lodge."
Adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
ELBERT
DAVIS
CLARE B. CAMPBELL
RALPH M. FooTE
ARTHUR J, KAHN
RAYMOND G. TAYLOR
Guy B. MIZE
CLARK H. SHAW

FUNERAL CEREMONY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Ritual to which was referred two resolutions,
one by Alfred F. Baughn, a Past Master of Henry Knox Lodge No.
662, and one by Damascus Lodge No. 648, relating to the funeral service, including the use of regalia, has carefully considered these resolutions, as well as many other suggestions received from other members
of the Grand Lodge for specific changes in the funeral service, all of
which we believe should be given consideration.
While we are in favor of the amendments and changes proposed by
Brother Baughn's resolution, nevertheless any changes in the service
will involve a reprinting of the Manual, and your Committee is unanimously of the opinion that no piecemeal amendment of the funeral service should be made, hut that a very careful study and review of the
service should be made, for the purpose of embodying all changes
deemed necessary or desirable.
We therefore offer the following substitute resolution:
"RESOLVED, that the incoming Grand Master be authorized to appoint a Special Committee, or in his judgment to refer
the matter of revision of the funeral service back to the Committee
on Ritual, to make a thorough study and review of the existing
funeral service for the purpose of preparing a revision of the

249

w.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At our 103d Annual Communication Grand Lodge recognized The
Grand Lodge of Israel ( 1952 Proc. 301 ). Subsequent thereto on October 20, 1953, The Grand Lodge of Israel was lawfully united with the
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel under the name of the latter. So there
now exists only one regular Grand Lodge and that is the Grand Lodge
of the State of Israel. It satisfies the basic conditions of legitimacy of
origin, exclusive jurisdiction, and adherence to the ancient landmarks.
We therefore move as follows:
1. That the recognition heretofore accorded the Grand Lodge of
Israel be revoked; and
2. That the Grand Lodge of the State of Israel be recognized by the
Grand Lodge of California.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. Moo RE
CHESTER H. WARLOW
ARTHUR M. WARREN
Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GEORGE WASHINGTON
MASONIC NATIONAL MEMORIAL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The annual convention of the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association was held at Alexandria, Virginia, on
February 22, 1954, Clifford D. Jory, Past Grand Master of Masons in
Iowa, President presiding. Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master: Henry
C. Clausen, Deputy Grand Master: Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary,
member of the Executive Committee and Board of Directors of the assol;iation: Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master: ·and your reporter

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

250

251

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

comprised the California delegation. The Secretary.-Trea surer, Fred.trick F. Sc:hondau, reported contributions to the Memorial fund aggre.gating $163,314.03, of which our Grand Lodge contributed $41,678.85.
Our whole contribution was applied to the Endowment · Fund of the
Memorial.
The record of our contributions is as follows:
This Grand Lodge at its annual communication in 1947 estimated
and fixed its proportion of the full cost of the Memorial, including the
endowment thereof at --------------------------------------------------------------$463,653.35
Contributions made by this Grand Lodge to and including
the year 1953, as reflected by report rendered in that year
( Pages 214 et seq. 1953 Proc. l----------------------------$387. 730.95
Contributed in Feb. 1954...................................... 41,678.85 429,409.80
Remaining uncontributed balance October, 1954 .................... $ 34,243.55
Grand Lodge has on hand, which has been collected since the last
Annual Communication, the following sums:
From the 15c levy........................:............ -----------------------$32,452.0S
From the $1.00 per new member-------------------------------------- 9,430.00
Total......... -----------------------------------$41.882.15
It will be observed that when said sum of $41.882.15 is delivered to
the association our estimated obligation will be extinguished. It now
transpires that our estimate was too low. The report of the President
and Secretary of the association dated March 1, 1954, indicates that the
actual cost of the memorial and the endowment thereof is as follows:
Cost of Memorial (complete)------------------------------$ 5,995.599. 41
Estimated amount to endow ---------------------------···------ 5,000,000.00
Total cost and endowmenL--------------------------------------$10,995,599.41
In order to ~quate contributions on basis of Masonic: membership
obtaining in the several states and the District of Columbia as of the
year 1952.-53, said President and Secretary have determined that the
contribution per member in all jurisdictions should be $2.89. This was
done by dividing the total cost and endowment $10,995,599.41 by
3,810,184, the Masonic population in the United States as of the year
1952.-53. California's proportion based upon its membership in the year
1952.-53 of 207,832 times $2.89 per member is $600,634.48.

Less:
Contributions paid as of 1953 ________________ $387,730.95
Contributions in 1954 ----------------·--···-----· 41,678.85
Contributions now available for 1955__ 41,882.05

471,291.85

Remaining uncontributed balance based
upon actual cost and endowment of the
Memorial ----------------------------·----------·----------·-------------··-- $129 ,342.63
For more than a decade prior to 1948 California had made no con.tributions toward the Memorial Fund, resulting in a position of glaring
deficiency. which was not in keeping with the enterprising spirit of Cali.fornia. We have now redeemed this deficiency and stand at the pinacle
among other Grand Lodges. We stated in our 1953 report:
"American Freemasons have labored to create this Memorial
-this majestic temple--to the memory of the Father of our coun..
try. The great aim was not to add to the enduring luster of his
name but to hand down to coming generations a monument to
one who was an ornament to Freemasonry."
California must ever recognize and appreciate its heritage of free
men. which was hammered out by the architects of our freedom under
the leadership of the Mason, George Washington. Our Grand Lodge
should therefore accept this additional challenge. However, in light of
the undetermined direction which other Grand Lodges may take re-specting this additional challenge and in view of the financial exigencies
which now beset us, we shall not move for a continuation of the 15c
per capita levy during the current year. The $1.00 per new member will
continue as provided under our law.
I therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED:
That the funds now on hand from the 15c per capita levy and the
$1.00 per new member fund, aggregating $41.882.05, be remitted to the
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association at or
prior to its Forty.-fifth Annual Convention on February 22, 1955, and
committed to the Endowment Fund.
Respectfully submitted,
JoHN R. MooRE
State Chairman of California
Adopted.

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

At the invitation of the Grand Master , Most Worsh ipful Hugh
Wilson , Grand Master of Nevad a, delivered an interesting and instruc
n.
tive addres s to the brethre

REPO RT OF DIRE CTOR S OF MASO NIC CLUB HOUS E,
BERKELEY
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of the Univer sity of
954.
California respectfully submits its report for the club year 1953-1
One of the most import ant items that faced the Board this year was
,
the selection of a Hostes s to succeed Mrs. Edna Morton . Mrs. Morton
ly
serious
became
years.
ten
past
the
for
who served the club faithfully
ill and unable to carry on her work. It was necessary to employ a sub..
stitute for a period of several months. This involved additional finance
until
as it was our obligation to continue Mrs. Morto n on the payroll
year.
club
her resignation became effective at the close of the
Realizing the import ant part that the Hostes s plays in the successful
operation of the club program, the Board appointed a committee headed
by Bro. Carl Munck, to search for a successor to Mrs. Morton .
l
The committee undertook the task at once by making a genera
nts.
applica
for
rs
request throug h the many agencies open to the Directo
from
This resulted in numerous inquiries and in written applications
reation
inform
nal
additio
with
tions
fifteen applicants. These applica
who
Board
the
of
ttee
commi
a
by
ed
review
quested in some cases, were
then
selected four for interview and further consideration. The Board
and
ion
discuss
much
after
and,
gs,
meetin
two
at
four
these
interviewed
suited
best
person
the
consideration selected Mrs. Esther Mainw aring as
on of
for all the duties assigned to the person responsible for the operati
feels
Board
the
and
club,
the
of
charge
the club program. She is now in
n.
selectio
nt
confident it has made a very excelle
The sudden illness of Mrs. Morton presented quite a serious problem
to the Board as there seems to be no provision made by the Grand Lodge
of a
to care for retired employees. Mrs. Morto n who is the daught er
lly
faithfu
served
Star,
n
Easter
member of the fraternity and a member of
while
ill
ly
serious
became
she
when
and well for a period of ten years
Bro.
living at the club. The Board appointed a committee headed by
Mrs.
for
care
to
done
be
could
what
gate
investi
to
Angus Holden
and ·
Morton. We are greatly indebted to Bro. Holden for finally finding
ally.
financi
establishing Mrs. Morto n in a home and assisting her
For the past several years, the Board of Directors has been giving
its attenti on to a complete overhauling of the Club house and its furnish
that
items
many
were
there
,
service
of
in~s. After some thirty years

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

253

s
required attention. Except for the redecoration of the walls and ceiling
year.
this
ted
comple
fairly
be
will
task
the
rooms
of the main club
New and attract ive window drapes have replaced those that have
the
served for twenty years. To protect the interior construction of
been
have
roof
the
and
s
cornice
the
to
repairs
building. very import ant
this
completed. The women's lounge was sadly in need of attention, and
the
in
re
has been redecorated including the furnishings. All furnitu
.
main club room has been recovered and cleaned
The matter of replacing the worn out rugs in the main club room was
.
given special attenti on by a committee headed by Bro. Gene Otwell
samgetting
weeks
spent
He
credit.
special
of
ing
Bro. Otwell is deserv
fact
ples and studyin g the various brands and qualities of carpets. In
ation
specific
d
he became a carpet expert. and prepar ed a very detaile
the
upon which to call for bids for new rugs in specified locations and
ns.
locatio
d
use of and laying the old rugs in specifie
A study of the bids received by the Board resulted in awardi ng the
47.
contract to the firm of Breuner's of Oaklan d in the amount of $5207.
The repainting of the cornice, outside woodwork and windows has
added greatly to the appear ance of the building.
l.
The Board has been fortunate to be able to employ Marcie Michae
.
hostess
nt
assista
as
club
the
in
worker
and
a former studen t member
sity.
Univer
the
at
work
te
gradua
She is now doing
The preparation of the annual budget to be presen ted to the Grand
.
Lodge is an item to which the Board gives very serious consideration
ttee.
commi
budget
the
of
an
Bro. Carl Munck is again serving as chairm
of
His committee holds several meetings and also meets with the Board
nce
assista
the
iated
apprec
greatly
has
Board
Directors. This year the
which Bro. Edwar d Siems, Chairm an of Grand Lodge Finance Comto
mittee has given the Board by assigning a member of his committee
fully
was
and
us
with
sit with our committee. Bro. Ben Corlet t met
It is
informed by the Board of Directors at its meeting of Oct. 7, 1954.
cont
earnes
your
for
ted
submit
fully
attache d to this report and respect
sideration.
During Grand Lodge week last Octobe r we were pleased to receive
a visit by a great number of officers and members of Grand Lodge. These
rs
visits afford an excellent opport unity for the various officers and membe
the
with
nted
acquai
become
to
of the Blue Lodges throug hout the state
d to
club house and the fine work it is doing. We are looking forwar
year.
such a visit again this
The annual visit of the M. W. Grand Maste r to the club is an event
on to
eagerly looked forwar d to by the studen ts of the club. The recepti
be a
to
proved
M. W. Frank Harwell. Jr., our Grand Master , again
ting
interes
and
g
pleasin
a
most delightful social event. After dinner and

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

address by Bro. HarweJI, a reception and dance was thoroughly enjoyed
by all.
With the purpose in mind of better acquainting members of our
fraternity with the club house and its facilities, use of the club house
was granted to the Northern California Guardian Association of Job's
Daughters for its meeting on August 24, 1954. Use was also granted
the University Square Club and the Warden's Association. A meeting
of five Inspector District Officers is also scheduled for November.
The interest in the work of the Masonic Club by the M. W. Grand
Master, his corps of officers and other members is sincerely appreciated
by the Board of Directors.
In addition to the annual proposed budget, there are attached to and
made a part of this report copies of the annual audit and copies of the
reports of the Student Officers.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER T. HELMS
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN
R. PERCY WISECARVER
RUSSELL c. HORSTMAN
LEO E. SIEVERT
PAUL s. BOREN
CARL B. MuNcK
ANGUS S. HOLDEN
GENE c. OTWELL
Ref erred to Committee on Segregation.
BUDGET 1954-1955
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA CLUB HousE
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA
1954-55
Proposed
1953-54
1953-54
Budget
Budget
Actual
Item
3,300.00
$
3,000.00
$
Resident Hostess ........................$ 4,157.69
1,500.00
1.500.00
Attendant .................................... 1,250.00
360.00
,,
360.00
360.00
.........
.........................
Accountant
2,400.00
2,400.00
fanitor & Gardener ...................... 1,576.75
2,210.00*
450.00
646.89
Repairs ........................................
650.00
650.00
472.05
.,........
..............
Cleaning
Annual
150.00
150.00
150.00
Annual Audit ......................... .....
2,400.00
2,400.00
Taxes ............................................ 2,366.86
60.00
60.00
60.40
...
.........................
Social Security
500.00
500.00
6.31
Insurance ......................................

GRAND LODGB OF CALIFORNIA
Janitorial Supplies ......................
Heat, Light and Water................
Telephone ....................................
Garbage ........................................
Garden Supplies ......................... .
Office Supplies ........................... .
Miscellaneous ..............................

297.70
1,201.18
269.63
58.80
47.85
299.96

255

550.00
1,400.00
300.00
70.00
75.00
150.00
500.00

550.00
1,400.00
300.00
70.00
75.00
150.00
500.00

Operating expense -~···············-···$13,222.07
Unreimbursed depreciation ........ 3,000.00
Depreciation ................................ 4,010.00
Furniture & major replace........... 1,502.02

$14,815.00 $16,275.00
3,000.00
4,010.00
4,010.00
fr
7,300.00*
4,050.00

$21,734.09
Previous cash balance ................
Received from Grand Lodge......

$25,875.00 $27,585.00
3,854.26
20,025.00

Available for 1953-4 operations..
Cash on hand 8/31/5·4-..........,.....

23,879.26
2,145.15

$23,879.26
Amount necessary for proposed
1954-55 budget in addition to
cash reserve and unexpended
from 1953-4 ·················-··········
*Sand & paint exterior woodwork
Redecorate ladies lounge ..........
Repair cornice, paint stucco......
Roof repairs ..............................
Miscellaneous repairs ................

465.00
180.00
625.00
490.00
450.00

**Furniture for ladies lounge ......................
Furniture for janitors room ......................
Water heaters ( kitchen & apartment) ..........
Redecorate apartment ..............................
Rug for large reception room (item not
purchased last year account reduced
budget & increased cost. ) ......................

2,145.15
$23,879.26

$25,439.85

$ 2,210.00
500.00
250.00
800.00
250.00

5,500.00

$ 7,300.00

256

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF DIRECTORS OF MASONIC CLUB HOUSE,
LOS ANGELES

have desired, the Director and Assistant Director, Mrs. Sheldon and
Mrs. Johnson. through additional hard work have kept the Club activities
up to a relatively high level. As an example, the major dance of the year
was put on at no cost to membership dues and actually resulted in a
profit of $275.00 which was turned over to the Board of Regents for the
Muscular Dystrophy Fund at UCLA. This was a "charity" event.
Half the cost of the orchestra was contributed, as was most of the food
and other expenses. It was not only a worth while event but was a social
success and added much prestige to the Club on the campus. Similarly,
another philanthropic project was handled without cost to the membership dues. The Student Council budget this y"tar did not permit giving
the Annual Thanksgiving dinner for underprivileged children. Nevertheless the banquet was held, larger than ever, hy working up enthusiasm
among the students so that each student attending not only paid for his
own meal but sponsored one for a child. One hundred twenty five attended the banquet and it was a big success.
Low membership also caused increased problems for the Snack Bar.
It requires a minimum number of customers to pay the fixed costs. Above
that number it can operate at a profit or, as is their practice, prices are
reduced. All year it was operated on a marginal basis. However, by
operating it on a co-operative plan, it was able to provide well balanced
meals to those student members desiring such services. This is one
place where a larger membership would be a tremendous help.
The outstanding formal event of the year was, as always, the Grand
Masters Reception. This was a Dinner and Dance in honor of Grand
Master Frank Harwell, Jr. There was also a musical program furnished
by Club members.
Space of course does not permit describing all of the social adivities
but, large and small, they numbered approximately fifty during the year.
They consisted of banquets, dances, coffee hours (during orientation),
ice skating parties, bowling parties, informal parties and "open house"
events, progressive dinners, post-football dinners, Sunday suppers, etc.
Twice each year the students hold a mountain "retreat" to make plans
for the coming semester.
Since so much has been said in this report about increasing membership, we should outline what the students themselves and Mrs. Sheldon are doing to solve the problem. An attractive brochure describing
the Club and requirements for membership was sent to each incoming
student of the university. Articles about the Club appeared in the orien..
tation issue of the Daily Bruin, the school paper, received by all students.
On Orientation Day the Club maintained a booth on the campus and
distributed literature and information to inquiring students.
Traditional Open House was held on Sunday before classes started
to acquaint new stucients with the club facilities and activities. Three

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This year we are celebrating the Silver Anniversary of the Masonic
Club House on the Westwood Campus. A quarter century ago the
University of California at Los Angeles had just moved to its present
location. There were no stores or residences, but just miles of wide open
spaces. A site was selected just outside the present South Gate to the
campus and the building erected. It is still the most modern, spacious
and attractive club house in the area. Both it and the furnishings and
equipment have been kept in first class condition through money furnished by the Grand Lodge and administered by a non~profit corporation
of which we are the Board of Directors.
The Club, as distinguished from the Club House, is run by the stu..
dents themselves through their own organization and an elected Student
Council. They operate under a Constitution approved by the Board of
Directors, and are supervised by a Director and Assistant Director, Mrs.
Sheldon and. Mrs. Johnson, employed by the Board of Directors. In
addition, two members of the Board attend and take part in all Student
Council meetings. There is thus close contact with all Club activities
as well as with the physical properties under our jurisdiction.
While the Club House with all of its facilities are furnished without
charge to the students, it is essential· in order to have a well rounded
program of social activities to finance these in part through student membership dues. This is strictly a Club function and is handled through
the Student organization and Student Council. When membership is
high the dues are adequate to provide elaborate social functions which
are talked about on the campus and attract new members. When membership is low it becomes necessary to provide fewer or less elaborate
activities and thus still fewer members are attracted to the Club.
We have outlined the internal organization of our operations, which
is already too familiar to all of you who have followed our reports, in
order to add emphasis to what we reported last year with respect to the
need for encouraging greater membership. The Grand Lodge contributions cover the overhead which consists mainly of fixed charges. We
could accommodate two or three times as many students without substantially increasing the cost to Grand Lodge. The economics of the
problem are entirely different when viewed from the standpoint of the
student organization. When membership is low the dues decrease in
direct proportion, activities are cµrtailed, and there is thus the constant
danger of still lower membership. Conversely, a growing membership
tends to grow still further and makes the whole program a success.
While membership during the past year was not as high as we would

257

258

259

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

hundred and fifty attended. Movies were shown of Club activities and
they were taken on tours through the Club House. Again this year the
Student Council extended an invitation to the Panhellenic officers to use
the Club rooms for ten days before the opening of school. This does
not interfere with Club activities and does acquaint a large number of
the young women with the Club. This year approximately 575 young
women had a splendid opportunity to observe what the Club has to offer.
At the opening meeting they were addressed by a representative of the
Club who gave them an interesting talk about the Club and its facilities.
We are very happy to report that the new school year is getting off
to a good start with 88 new applications already on file as this report is
being written.
Next year we can report in full regarding our Silver Anniversary
year. For the present we shall simply report that plans are now under
way for a big formal banquet to honor the event, and that it is bei.ng
coordinated with the student orientation activities in an effort to give
the membership program some additional support. We trust that it will
be the start of an even better second quarter century.
We propose the following budget for the ensuing year, and recommend that it be referred to the Committee on Finance:
Director ·-········-···································$ 3,360.00
Assistant Director ................................ 2,220.00
Bldg. Assts. & Maint........................... 1,320.00
Gen. Bldg. Maintenance .................... 1,400.00
Gardener & Gardening ........................
600.00
Magazines & Newspapers ..................
100.00
Heat, Light, Water & Power.·:··········· 1,000.00
Telephone ............................................
350.00
Office Supplies ....................................
100.00
Postage ................................................
75.00
Taxes .................................................... 3,000.00
Insurance ..............................................
100.00
Auditing •.............................................
100.00
Stationery & Printing ..........................
200.00
Social Security ....................................
320.00
Depreciation ....................................... . 6,710.00
Miscellaneous
100.00
$21,055.00

Our depreciation is determined as follows:
Building and landscaping (less depreciation) ...... $66,949.03
Depreciation on basis of twenty-three ( 23) years
Furnishings and equipment (less depreciation) .... 30, 401.06
Depreciation on 'basis of eight ( 8) years..............

2,910.00
3,800.00

Total Depreciation: $6,710.00
Respectfully submitted,
ELLSWORTH MEYER
A. CURTIS SMITH
EARLE CRANE
CLYOE
SHOEMAKER
JOHN A. KLARQUIST
ELVIN
DRAKE
EDWIN
WADE
MARION A. DUNCAN
JOHN M. ASKIN
HOWARD M. WILSON
HERBERT H. COOPER
CHARLES E. LISTENWALTER
FRANK REINSCH
A.H. NICOLL
GEORGE E. HALL

c.

c.

c.

w.

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Special Committee on Taxation has continued to function with
the same membership during the years 1953-1954.
The work of the Committee has been in large part routine advice to
subordinate lodges and the committees and other organizations operating
under the supervision of Grand Lodge.
We have had special meetings with the Masonic Homes Board 'with
reference to problems arising in that corporation.
During the year, a new internal revenue law has been enacted by
Congress but, so far, we have been unable to find any change in it with
respect to the obligations of Grand Lodge or of the subordinate lodges,
either in respect to income tax or as to reports on Social Security and
unemployment.
No change was made in the 1954 Code with respect to the status of
the ritualistic officers of the lodges, concerning which we reported in our
last year's report. Prior to 1951, ritualistic officers were excluded and
no return was required on wages paid to them. This exclusion was
eliminated in the 1951 Internal Revenue Code and it was not reinstated

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

by the 1954 Code. Therefore, the same advice is given that was given
last year, that no exemption can be claimed for ritualistic officers-the
organist and other ritualistic officers should be included in all returns
made, if they are paid $50.00 or more per calendar quarter.
Respectfully submitted,

R. P. WISECARVER
JAMES E. HAMMOND
ROBERT R. YoRK
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON DeMOLAY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your special committee on DeMolay, in making its annual report
would like to call to your attention an important portion of the plan
which was approved by our Grand Lodge in 1946, concerning DeMolay:
"It is a plan of education and coordination rather than one of sponsorship. Our plan would create a group of men who would act as coordinators between DeMolay and Masonry in our state. From time to
time they would be authorized to bring to our lodges the messages and
needs of DeMolay, to enlist the aid of men who would be willing to
assist in the work and to keep a watchful eye on the activities of DeMolay. Finally, they would report annually to Grand Lodge the progress of that order in California."
Your committee has followed this plan closely, yet one great need
remains, namely, the aid of individuals who are willing and capable to
serve as Chapter Dads and committee men.
Another problem faced by a number of DeMolay chapters is the
matter of flnances, caused by several factors, but is primarily due to a
greater increase in younger boys who enter the order and that of generally a smaller number of members in the individual chapter. The income
from dues and initiation fees is hardly sufficient to cover the ordinary
operating expenses of a chapter, and often there are not enough funds
to carry out a program of social and recreational activities, which are
so vital for a successful young people's organization, in addition to the
.
regular degree and chapter work.
Each committee member reports a new high, since the end of World
War II, in Programming, Membership, new chapters and general interest. Yet it is a long way from records attained dudng the 1920's.
Great interest is being shown in Northern California's new DeMolay
Camp which is being developed on the American River near Placerville,
California. Under the impetus of the East Bay group, Northern California DeMolays and Chapter committee men are constructing a beautiful camp. The cook house and several dormitories, and a bridge have
been completed, and are being used on week-ends.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

261

Visitation between DeMolay Chapters is being evidenced, one of
the most recent and successful, was the September visit of the Ukiah,
California, Chapter to the Mission Chapter in San Francisco.
Central and Southern California have shown particular interest in
the re-birth of the State DeMolay Association. This year's Conference
was held in Monterey and a larger one is planned for next year in San
Diego. Eighty-ftve Chapters are reported to have joined this new state
organization.
The San Diego County Masonic Officers Association, working in
close cooperation with the DeMolay officials of that jurisdiction and
in coordination with the Grand Lodge, DeMolay Committee man of that
area has continued to be the great example of working together for the
betterment of DeMolay and Masonry of that county.
Each year by resolution, the third week in February is set aside and
known as "DeMolay Week." That all Blue Lodges in the area are
urged to remain dark during this week. That all Masters urge their
members to attend at least one DeMolay meeting that week.
Each succeeding year since the inception in 1951 has witnessed an
increase in interest and attendance. The largest Masonic Auditorium
available in San Diego is not large enough to accommodate all those
who desired admission in 1954.
Your committee invites each Masonic Officers' Association to study
the San Diego plan. Relative to this matter, your Committee welcomes
any suggestions which will be of assistance to us in carrying out the
purpose of this committee as adopted by our Grand Lodge.
Your Com~ittee was saddened by the sudden death of Brother
Alvin E. Clark of Sacramento who had served well on this Committee
since 1951. DeMolay and Masonry will greatly miss this efficient and
fine committee man.
Brother Lester G. Bruno has been named as his successor in the
Sacramento and Northern California area.
We recommend the continuance of the Committee and that the sum
of $750.00 be appropriated to cover its necessary expenses for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted,
RAYMOND S. KIMBELL
THURMAN D. MOYERS
KAYV.SMITH
HENRY HONAKER
FRANCIS W. PETERS
EDWIN R. BROOKS
CLARE NELSON
LESTER G. BRUNO

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

262

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATI ON OF
CALIFORNI A, INCORPOR ATED
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The following is a statement of the Masonic Temple Association of
California, Incorporated, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1954:
ASSETS

·Cash n..••:_..__ _1!;_......•...-·········-·•···························-~······.$ 10,512.55
255.00
Accounts Receivable - tenants................... _...........................
210,358.35
Investments in stocks and bonds, at cost..................................
Property - depreciated value, ................................................. 657,821.86
TOT AL ASSETS ..•.....................................................$878,947.76
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL

Liabilities ·-·-····-·····-·······-·····-····························-·············$ 4,077.89
Capital stock and surplus............................·-··························· 874,869.87
TOT AL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL. .................$878,947.76
INCOME

Rentals ·--············-···················-························-··············-.$ 73, 195.00
Dividends and interest .............................................................. 9,051.42
Profit on sales of securities........................................................ 31,563.67
139.91
Sundry income ..........................................................................
TOTAL INCOME ....•.. .,................................- .......•....$113,950.00
EXPENSES

Total Expenses·························-·····················"·························$ 63,486.45
Net income for the Y'Uf·-····-············-·······································$ 50,463.55
Less dividends paid .................................................................. 9,869.89

263

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON COLUMBIA TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee wishes to report the following financial condition for .
the year ending July 31, 1954:
Grand Lodge appropriation ..................................$2,000.00
Expended ................................................................ 1,555.00
The following amounts are requested for the year ending July 31,
1955:
Salaries and Utilities...•..............•..-············-·········$ 600.00
Depreciation, interior and exterior improvements,
general maintenance, and contingencies........ 1,900.00
$2,500.00
to the attenbring
to
effort
special
made
has
committee
the
This year
tion of the several lodges throughout the State the knowledge that we
have in our Columbia Temple an outstanding Shrine to Masons in California.
Through a message by our Grand Master, Most Worshipful Frank
Harwell, Jr., plus individual talks to lodges wherever possible, we have
endeavored to assist the lodges in making use of this Temple.
It may be noted that once a lodge visits this Shrine to confer a degree,
it generally results in future visitations by the same lodge, sometimes on
an annual basis. Every visitation is accompanied with the usual enthusiasm and determination to return again.
We believe that continued efforts along these lines will bring more
visitations to our wonderful Temple in the Mother Lode, thus bringing
more benefit to Masons in general, and with the ultimate self maintenance of the property there.
Sincere thanks is extended to all members of the committee, to our
Most Worshipful Grand Master, to Past Grand Master Leon Whitsell,
to the Office of our Grand Secretary, to P.M. Ray Irwin, our sincere
bard working representative at the Temple, to the Correspondence Com•
mittee for their kind help in their new publication, and to all the Masters
and members who helped to make this year a successful one.
In conclusion, your Committee moves that the request for appropriations be referred to the Finance Committee, and that the remainder of
the report be adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN A. DULL
CECIL B. MATHEWS
ARTHUR E. CLINK
CHESTER M. SMITH
G. C. McKINLEY

Net increase to surplus......................- ......................................$ 40,593.66
Surplus balance October 1, 1953......................................•....... 167,487.92
Surplus balance September 30, 1954........................................$208,081.58
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

264

265

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE

mendations direct to Grand Lodge concerning all petitions for recognition by foreign Grand Lodges, and other matters relating to fraternal
intercourse with such Grand Lodges. .
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported concurrence.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

GRAND MASTER'S DECISIONS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee has examined the decisions of the Most Worshipful
Grand Master and respectfully reports as follows:
Decisions Nos. 1 to 5 and 7 to 10, inclusive, and 13 to 19, inclusive
and 21, are correct.
We recommend the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the following numbered decisions set forth in
the Grand Master's Report, to wit, Nos. 1 to 5 and 7 to 10, inclusive, and
13 to 19, inclusive and 21 are, and each of them is, hereby approv.ed and
adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
OSCAR LAWLER
EARL WARREN
JOHN w. SHENK
JoHN R. MooRE
ARTHUR PAULSEN
Louis C. DRAPEAU
WAKEFIELD TAYLOR
J. L. MISSALL
VERNON PATTERSON
Adopted.

RESOLUTION RE COMMITTEE ON RECOGNITION
OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
The extension of recognition to foreign Grand Lodges is an important and essential function of our Grand Lodge. The subject should be
attended with great care to the end that complete regularity is assured
before amity is accorded. At the present no statutory authority exists
for the appointment of a Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand
Lodges. Such appointment is at the discretion of the Grand Master
under Sec. 77 of Ross Digest.
It appears that the subject should be dignified by specific statutory
provision as proposed by Past Grand Masters John R. Moore, Chester
H. Warlow and Arthur M. Warren.
We therefore present the following:
RESOLYEO, That a new section be added to Ross Digest as follows: Sec. 78.2 A Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges,
consisting of three members, shall be appointed by the newly installed
Grand Master at each Annual Communication for a term ending at the
close of the next succeeding Annual Communication. It shall be the
duty of said Committee to investigate, consider and report with recom-

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 78
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has considered and approved the
proposal of the Committee on Lodge Financing that Section 78 of Ordinances of Grand Lodge be amended for clarification purposes to read
as follows:
"No Lodge, temple association, Lodge Trustees Committee, association, partnership or corporation, representing itself as Masonic in
character or operating for the benefit of a Masonic Lodge or Lodges,
Masonry or Masons, shall undertake any plan, scheme, project or
method whereby:
1. Real property is to be purchased, or
2. Leased for more than three years, or
3. A, Masonic temple is to be erected or altered whereby the total
expenditure will exceed the sum of $2,500.00
without first obtaining the written approval of the Committee on Lodge
Financing."
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported concurrence.
Adopted, 5/6 vote.

ADDITION OF SECTION 78.1
Resolved: That a new section to be numbered 78.1 be added as
follows:
"All Masonic Lodges owning and operating real property and all
Masonic temple corporations operating real property and controlled by
a Masonic Lodge or Lodges, shall submit an annual profit and loss statement to the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing. Such profit
and loss statement to be submitted at the close of each fl.seal year of
such Lodge or Temple Association."
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported concurrence.
Adopted, 5/6 vote.

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 151
Resolved that Section 151 be amended to read as follows:
"A Lodge must retain the control of its own funds and property.
It may deposit its funds in a sound and reputable bank or banks. It may,
after receiving consent from the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge
Financing, cause a corporation to be organized for the purpose of purchasing, erecting or maintaining and holding title to real estate for a

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

266

267

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

s may hold
temple for Lodge use and purposes and a Lodge or Lodge
be rented
may
temple
such
in
Space
ation.
corpor
such
shares of stock in
corpothe
of
ses
for mercantile and other uses consistent with the purpo
ration so organized."
.
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported concurrence
Adopted, 5/6 vote.

COM MITT EE ON HIST ORY

n 77
Wher eas the Grand Maste r has heretofore, pursua nt to Sectio
Hisic
Mason
on
ittee
Comm
ial
"Spec
a
ted
appoin
of the Ordinances,
tory," and
one of
Wher eas this Committee has requested that it be named as
carry
to
it
enable
to
·better
the
,
the standi ng committees of Grand Lodge
out its work,
ances
There fore be it Resolved that Article III Section 70 of Ordin
"on
words
be amended by adding the words "On Histor y" after the
Grand Lodge Activities."
rrence.
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported concu
Adopted, 5/6 vote.

DISP ENSA TION S APPR OVE D

the
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration
inyear,
the
during
r
Maste
Grand
special dispensations issued by the
the
of
ers
memb
from
s
degree
for
ations
cluding his action on applic
approval
Armed Forces lacking the residence qualitkation, and also his
of Resolutions relative to Life Membership.
these
We find that all the acts of the Gran~ Maste r in regard to
We,
law.
the
of
s
matters have been in compliance with the requirement
be
therein
r
Maste
Grand
therefore, recommend that the acts of the
approved.
Adopted.

REV IEW OF SECT ION 210

ing
A resolution was offered which would have the effect of amend
s:
follow
as
read
to
Section 210 of the Ordin ances
"Section 210
in any
No person shall hold, or retain, or be eligible for membership
saloon
the
in
ye,
emplo
or
agent
al,
princip
as
either
ed
Lodge who is engag
hotel or
business except in connection with and as part of a bona Ode
·
restau rant."
so
doubt,
in
ed
shroud
Our legislation on this subject has been so
ing
includ
Craft,
the
of
ers
lacking in clarity and definition, that all memb
e and
Grand Maste rs and members of the Committees on Jurisprudenc the
to
ions
provis
its
ng
applyi
in
lty
difficu
e
Grievances have had extrem
new factual situations that constantly arise.
but in
This amendment is an earnes t attempt to clarify the situation,

gh factual
our opinion the complexity of the problem demands a thorou
t.
subjec
the
on
tion
legisla
d
study, followed by carefully drafte
Griev..
With the concurrence of the members of the Committee on
r
Maste
ances this Committee therefore recommends that the <Grand
sed
propo
t
submi
ap~oin~ a speci~l committee to make such a study and
ion.
legislation to this Grand Lodge at its next Annual Communicat
rrence.
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported concu
Adopted.
tion
With the permission of the Grand Maste r, the original resolu
the
by
rawn
with reference to Amendment of Section 210 was withd
sponsor.
At 12: 10 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 P. M.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

268

269

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AFTE RNOO N SESS ION-T hursd ay, October 14, 1954

Grand Lodge was called on at 2:00 P. M .• the Grand Master presiding.
In his prayer the Grand Chapla in directed the though ts of the brethren to Inner Serenity.
The brethre n were delighted to listen to Most Worsh ipful Lewis
the
Neeb, Grand Master of Arizona, who accepted the invitation of
Lodge.
Grand
s
addres
Grand Master to

DECI SION NO. 6
As to the Most Worsh ipful Grand Master 's decision No. 6, holding
ns
that it is in some cases permissible to publish official communicatio
is
same
the
,
Lodges
inate
from the Grand Lodge or its officers to subord
must
tions
publica
such
that
er,
approved with the qualification, howev
be confined to instances where there is specific authorization at the source
to so publish.
We, therefore, recommend adoption of the following resolution:
"RESO LVED : That the Most Worsh ipful Grand Master 's
decision No. 6 is approv ed and adopte d with the qualification that
official communications from the Grand Lodge and from Grand
Lodge officers to subordinate Lodges or to individual Mason s
must not be published without permission at the source."
Adopte d.

DECI SION NO. 11

The Most Worsh ipful Grand Master 's Decision No. 11 was respon
a
after
n,
sive to inquiry as to proper corrective action in a case wherei
candid ate had been made a Fellow Craft by one Lodge, it was discovs
ered that he had, within twelve months prior to applyin g for the degree
and
Lodge,
r
anothe
by
d
rejecte
been
in the Lodge which elected him,
queshad failed to mention the rejection in his second application. The
"
ertent.
"inadv
was
n
rejectio
the
n
mentio
to
failure
the
tion states that
The Grand Maste r approved denial of advancement to the candis
date, required the initiating Lodge to tender the fees for the two degree
addesired
nt
applica
the
if
that,
d
directe
and
Lodge,
g
to the rejectin
and
vancement, he must apply therefor, subject to the usual reference
baUot.
Your committee believes that it is impossible to correctly determine
what action should be taken withou t additional facts.
In the application the applicant was asked:
"No. 8. Have you ever presented a petition to any Masonic
Lodge? If so, when and what Lodge?
"No. 9. Have you ever been rejected by any Masonic Lodge?
If so, when and what Lodge?"

His answers were not submitted, and must be supplied.
How, if such answer s were frank, the facts would not have been
have
apparent: how the applica nt's failui:e to disclose the facts could
comgating
investi
the
and
ers
second
why
been inadvertent: and how or
e.
mittee failed to discover or disclose these facts, it is difficult to conceiv
to
d
directe
be
Your committee recommends that the proper inspector
investigate and report to the Grand Master the facts necessary to deterthe
JDine whethe r the applica nt's conduct was "inadv ertent, " and as to
e
ultimat
that
and
ttee,
commi
gating
investi
diligence of seconders and the
Fellow
the
t
agains
taken
be
should
action
any,
if
decision as to what,
the
Craft or any Maste r Mason s or Mason s involved be withheld until
completion of such investigation and report.
We recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
"RESO LVED : That the Grand Master 's decision No. 11 be
referred by the incoming Grand Maste r to the Inspector of the
District in which the initiating Lodge involved is located with
instruction to investigate all the facts and report to the incoming
Grand Master for such decision as may be warran ted by the results of such investigation."
Adopte d.

DECI SION NO. 12

Grand Master 's answer was "No" to the following question:
"May the Lodge, which owns and operates the Livermore
Masonic Cemet ery, transfe r this ·p roperty to a cemetery district
to be created under California Law, under a plan calling for a
political campaign and approval by the voters of Murra y Township, but at no expense to the Lodge?"
The plan calling for a political campaign made the ruling imperative.
However, your Committee has conferred with representatives of the
ign
Lodge, and has been assured that there will be no political campa
way
any
in
is
Lodge
the
under the auspices of the Lodge, or in which
connected.
Theref ore. in view of the desirability of relieving the Lodge of the
d by
burden of maintaining a cemetery forever, if that burden is assume
Comyour
the people of the district in which the cemetery is located,
mittee is of the opinion that the Lodge should not be forbidden to transfer title to the cemetery to such public district.
r.
Nothin g herein is intende d to approve the legality of such a transfe
That must be left to the Lodge.
For the foregoing reasons your Committee recommends the following resolution:
"RESO LVED : That the Lodge owning Livermore Mason ic
Cemet ery be and is hereby permitted to transfe r title thereto to
a cemetery district duly constituted under California law."
Adopte d.

271

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

DECISION NO. 20

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 97-Sth

The Grand Master answered "NO" to the following question:
"Is conviction of a felony prior to application for Degrees,
grounds for automatic expulsion?"
The answer is correct if we eliminate the word "automatic."
An Applicant for the Degrees of Masonry must be a man of moral
conduct, coming under the tongue of good report. In 1875 this Grand
Lodge resolved that a person who had served a term in a state prison
did not come under the tongue of good report; reaffirmed in 1951.
The section in Ross Digest denominated "automatic expulsion" does
not apply to the facts in this case. Indeed, the term "automatic expulsion" is a misnomer. The section requires a trial in every case. Presentation of a certified record of conviction of a felony is prima facie evidence
only.
In this case the convicted felon should be tried for unmasonic conduct in that he concealed his record, and falsely answered the question
in his application for the Degrees as to whether he knew of any moral
reason that would prevent him from becoming a Free Mason.
Inquiry should be made in this case whether there was any unmasonic
conduct on the part of the sponsors of this man, or of members of the
investigating committee in permitting the presentation of this application
to the Lodge.
Adopted.

We present the following resolution:
RESOLVED. That Section 97-8th, of Ross Digest be amended by
substituting the words "Grand Secretary" for the words "Committee
on Accounts."
Adopted 5/6 vote.

270

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 121
We present the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the contents of Section 121 of Ross Digest be
repealed and the following inserted in lieu thereof:
"All stated meetings shall be held in the approved building in the
place, i.e., city, town or community fixed by its charter or dispensation;
Special meetings may be held as above, or a. In the lodge room at the Masonic Home at Decoto
b. In the Masonic Temple at Columbia
c. In the first Masonic Temple erected in California at Benicia
d. In a building and at a place designated by the Grand Master in a
dispensation issued for that purpose, subject to such restrictions and
notice to the membership of the Lodge as the Grand Master may prescribe.''
Adopted 5/6 vote.

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 97-6th
We present the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That Section 97-6th, of Ross Digest be amended
by substituting the words "Grand Secretary" for the words "Committee
on Accounts."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 42
We present the following resolution:
RESOLVED:
That the contents of Section 42 of Ross Digest be repealed and the
following inserted in lieu thereof:
"The Grand Treasurer at the end of his term shall pay over and
transfer to his successor all funds and property of Grand Lodge then in
his possession."
Adopted. 5/6 vote.
AMENDMENT OF SECTION 47
We present the following resolution:
RESOLVED:
That the contents of Section 47 of Ross Digest be repealed and the
following inserted in lieu thereof:
"The Grand Secretary shall secure from a reputable casualty com~
pany and maintain in force a blanket fidelity bond covering all officers
of Grand Lodge, Lodges. Masonic Homes of California, Board of Relief.
Employment Bureaus, Masonic Clubhouses and California Masonic
Memorial Temple with a minimum coverage of $5.000.00 for each such
officer and maximum coverage in an amount as determined by the Grand
Master. The premiums for such bond shall be paid by Grand Lodge.
Coverage on the officers of any Lodge in excess of said minimum at the
request of the Lodge shall be secured by the Grand Secretary and the
premiums therefor shall be paid by Grand Lodge. provided, however,
such Lodge shall reimburse Grand Lodge for such premiums."
Adopted. 5/6 vote.

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 242
RESOLVED: That the contents of Section 242 of Ross Digest be
repealed and the following inserted in lieu thereof:
"An elected candidate of a Lodge in this jurisdiction may receive
the first degree in another Lodge in this jurisdiction, provided:
"1. Request of such candidate for such courtesy work is approved at
a stated meeting of the Lodge in which he was elected, by a majority of
the members present, and
"2. That a certified copy of the approval is forwarded to the Grand
Secretary and validated by the Grand Master.
"An Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft of a Lodge in this jurisdic-

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tion may receive the remaining degree or degrees in another Lodge in
this jurisdiction, provided:
"1. Request of such Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft for such
courtesy work is approved at a stated meeting of his Lodge by a majority
of the members present, or
"2. An Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft may, after receiving a
waiver of jurisdiction from his Lodge, apply to another Lodge within
this jurisdiction for the remaining degree or degrees, accompanying it
with the fees required therefor.
Adopted by 5/ 6 vote.

AMENDM ENT OF SECTION 243
RESOLVE D: That the contents of Section 243 of Ross Digest be
repealed and the following inserted in lieu thereof:
"An applicant elected to receive the three degrees in a Lodge in this
jurisdiction may receive the first, second or third degree or all three
degrees and also the required proficiency coaching in a Lodge in another
jurisdiction, provided:
"1. Request of such applicant for such courtesy work is approved at
a stated meeting of the Lodge in which he was elected, hy a majority
of the members present, and
"2. That a certified copy of the approval is forwarded to the Grand
Secretary and validated by the Grand Master. An applicant elected to
receive any or all of the degrees in a Lodge in another jurisdiction recognized by this Grand Lodge may receive any or all of the degrees and
the necessary proficiency coaching, provided:
"1. Request of such applicant be transmitted by the Grand Master
or Grand Secretary of the other jurisdiction to the Grand Secretary of
this jurisdiction and validated by the Grand Master of this jurisdiction.
"No application, reference, ballot or fee shall be required in the
Lodge conferring any degree upon request and the applicant will be a
member of the Lodge which requested the work.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

REPEAL OF SECTION S 201-6th, 202-llth, 666 and 667
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
We present the following resolution:
RESOLVE D:
That Section 201~th; 202-11 th; 666 and 667 of Ross Digest be
repealed.
Adopted, 5/6 vote.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

273

AMENDM ENT OF SECTION 311
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOLVE D: That the contents of Section 311 of Ross Digest be
repealed and the following inserted in lieu thereof:
"The Commissioners shall assemble under the direction of the Trial
Master at the time and place appointed. No person who acted as a witness or Commissioner at a prior trial of the accused is qualified to act as
a witness or Commissioner. One who cannot fairly try the matter is
unqualified to act as Commissioner. Objections may be ma~e to any
Commissioner but reasons for objection must be stated at the time there- of and the Trial Master shall decide and rule upon the validity of all
objections. Vacancies on the Commission, because of objections or otherwise, shall be filled by the remaining Commissioners, subject to the
approval of the Trial Master, from qualified members of the Lodge; pr.o- vided that if a majority of the Commissioners are unable to act the Tnal
Master shall refer the matter to the Lodge for the election of new Commissioners to fill the vacancies."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

1955 COMMUN ICATION
At the suggestion of the Grand Secretary, we present the following
resolution:
RESOLVE D: That Section 31 of Ross Digest be amended by
inserting at the end thereof the following:
"provided further that the 106th Annual Communication shall be
held in tqe City of San Francisco commencing on the fourth
Monday of October at 10 o'clock A.M."
Adopted by 5/ 6 vote.

AMENDM ENT OF SECTION 33
We present the following resolution:
RESOLVE D: That Section 33 of Ross Digest be amended by repealing the language therein reading as follows:
"provided, however, that Master Masons may be present at th~
opening of the lOlst Annual Communication in October, 1950.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

ENLARGE MENT OF CHARTER S COMMIT TEE
We present the following resolution:
RESOLVE D, that Section 70 of Ross Digest be amended as follows:
t. That the words "on Charters" appearing on line 3 thereof be
stricken.
2. By inserting after the word "each"; ~?line~ thereof the following: "on Charters, to consist of 11 members.
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported its concurrence.
Adopted, 5/6 vote.

274

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

REPEAL OF SECTION 974
RESOLVED: That the decision of Grand Master Johnston and the
approval of the Jurisprudence Committee in 1892 as set forth in Sec. 974,
Ross Digest, be disapproved, and that it is now the policy of Grand
Lodge that nominations shall not be made for trial commissioners to be
elected pursuant to Section 299 of the Ordinances.
Grievance Committee reported its concurrence.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

AMENDMENT OF RESOLUTION ON THE
SALE OF SECURITIES
RESOLVED: That the words "in case of his absence or disability
preventing him" be stricken from the Resolution on the Sale of Securities of Masonic Homes or Grand Lodge adopted by Grand Lodge at
the Annual Communication in 1950 and found on page 242 of the Proceedings of that year.
As amended said resolution would then read as follows:
RESOLVED: That pursuant to due authorization of the Trustees
of the Masonic Homes of California, a <:orporation, in case of sale of
securities or other property owned and/or possessed by the said Trustees
or a majority of the Investment Committee of said Grand Lodge in case
of sale of other securities or property owned by the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California or held in trust by it, that the
Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge or the Assistant Grand Treasurel
of the Grand Lodge, is hereby fully authorized and empowered to transfer, convert, endorse, sell, assign, set over and deliver any and all shares
of stock, bonds, debentures, notes, subscription warrants, stock purchase
warrants, evidence of indebtedness or other securities now or hereafter
standing in the name of or owned by this Grand Lodge, an unincorporated association, and to make, execute and deliver, under the seal of
this association, any conveyances and all written instruments of assignment and transfer necessary or proper to effectuate the authority conferred.
Adopted.

SUSPENSION OF MASTER
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported that they had reviewed the·
report presented by the Grand Master in connection with his Decision
No. 21. They pointed out that the suspension of the Master ordered by
the Grand Master remained in effect only until this Annual Communication. The Committee, therefore, introduced the following resolution:
"RESOLVED, That the suspension of a Master, as reported
by the Grand Master in connection with his Decision No. 21, be
maintained in effect until the next Annual Communication of this
Grand Lodge."
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

275

REPEAL OF SECTION 775A
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has given consideration to the
resolution introduced to authorize the repeal of Section 775A. Your
Committee points out that the repeal of this Section would serve only
to rescind the decision applying to a specific Lodge. The suggested
repeal would not affect the regulations. We believe the resolution should
not be adopted.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
MEMORIAL TEMPLE CoMMITIEE RECOMMENDATIONS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on the California Masonic Memorial Temple has
presented to Grand Lodge its report, and its recommendations numbered ( 1 ) , ( 2), and ( 3) have been ref erred to the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes.
Recommendation No. ( 1) proposes that, in pursuance to the plan of
financing as heretofore adopted by Grand Lodge, th•at the campaign be
extended to the close of the fiscal year, July 31, 1955, and that the Memorial Temple Committee be continued for that purpose.
Recommendation No. ( 2) asks that a minimum goal of an average
of $10.00 per member of voluntary contribution be fixed as the Lodge
goal for each constituent Lodge, based on the membership as of July 31,
1955.
Recommendation No. ( 3 )-that in pursuance of the plan for the
rbuilding, maintenance and operating of a Memorial Temple, that the
Grand Lodge by and through the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary, subject to the prior approval of the Grand Master, the Deputy
Grand Master, the Grand Treasurer and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, may sell at the best price obtainable, when in their
Judgment the time is opportune, the stock which the Grand Lodge owns
in the corporation holding title to the Grand Lodge's present location
at 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California.
Your Committee feels that these recommendations are realistic and
logical and we recommend them as the policy of Grand Lodge.
Since the start of the campaign to raise fonds for a Memorial T empie, approximately six to seven months ago, this Committee has done a
magnificent Job and has to date raised a total of $866,065.27, either in
•
cash or by signed pledges.
We feel that the recommendation of the Committee on the California

276

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic Memorial Temple as submitted in their report and Nos. ( 1 ),
( 2), and ( 3 ) should be approved.
LESLIE E. Woon
RoLLlE W. MILLER
ELLSWORT H MEYER
ARTHUR M. WARREN
LEO E. ANDERSON
AUGUSTU S H. ALLEN
COBURN
IRA
RALPH W. CUTLER
STELLING
HAROLD

w.

w.

Adopted.
On a number of items which had been referred to the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes and the Committee on Jurisprudence,
jointly, the recommendations of the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes were reported to Grand Lodge in conjunction with the recommendations of the Committee on Jurisprudence. Such concurrent recommendations are not separately listed in this report.

OLD LOS ANGELES MASON IC HALL

The Grand Master has recommended that the incoming Grand Master be authorized and directed to appoint a special committee to consider
matters relative to the proposed destruction of the first Masonic Hall
in Los Angeles, which is on North Main Street just south of the Plaza.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is of the opinion
that the members of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 and of this Grand Lodge
would be derelict if through lack of interest or action this edifice were
demolished.
The construction of the Hollywood, Ramona and Santa Ana freeways has removed all other buildings between the hall and the freeway
and given it considerable prominence, the projected plans making the
remainder of the block, principally covered by the historic hotel, the Pico
House, an historic monument, will result in an enhancement of interest
in this hall. The area should contain this monument to Masonry as well
as the park, Plaza Church, Olvera Street and other structures.
Your Committee therefore presents the following motion and moves
'
its adoption:
appoint
"That the incoming Grand Master be authorized to
a special committee to work jointly with a committee of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, relative to the preservation of the old Masonic Hall at 416 N. Main Street, Los Angeles; that said Grand
Master be authorized to make nominal expenditures, if necessary,
to prevent the demolition of said hall prior to our next annual
communication; that said special committee report to the Grand
Master not later than March 1, 1955, and to our next annual
communication.''
Adopted.

277

CALIFO RNIA FREEMA SON
That portion of the report of the Corres·pondence Committee recommending that the publication of the "Californi a Freemaso n" be continued
during the ensuing year has been referred to your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes.
The Committee on Correspon dence is to be commended for the issues
of "Californi a Freemaso n" which have been published thus far, and we
recommend said publication be continued on a quarterly basis during the
ensuing year and that the resolution presented by the Correspon dence
Committee be adopted.
Adopted.

ATTEND ANCE OF SECRET ARIES
The Master of one of our Lodges has presented what is termed a
petition "that all Lodge Secretaries be permitted to attend or be present
at all Grand Lodge Sessions in order that they receive all necessary
information first hand and therefore be of still further value to their
respective Lodges."
In fairness to the proponent of this proposal, we should perhaps call
attention to the fact that the result he desires could not .be accomplished
by the granting of a ·petition but would require an amendment to our
Ordinance s and he has not proposed legislation to that end.
Perhaps we should also call attention to the fact that a Lodge Secretary who is pot a Past Master can attend all the sessions of the Grand
Lodge in Annual Communication except the opening ceremony and during an election, and a Secretary who is also a Past Master may be
present during those periods also.
It is a fact and not levity which prompts pointing out that no first
hand information is to be gained during the opening ceremony.
Turning to the matter of policy involved in the petition, your Committee does not believe Secretaries should be singled out and admitted
during the opening ceremonies and treasurers, deacons, stewards, mar- ·
shals, chaplains, tilers and other Master Masons excluded. No secrets
are divulged during the opening ceremonies and no valid reason exists
for the exclusion of Master Masons during the opening ceremonies and
their admission the moment those ceremonies are concluded, if seats are
available. It is probable that the beautiful opening ceremony might be
of greater interest to such brethren than some of the routine business
and their admission might tend to eliminate some of the feeling that
there is a wide chasm between the Grand Lodge and the Master Masons
who are not Lodge Officers.
If there is to be a change in policy, it should not be merely as proposed by this petition.
Because no legislation was presented and in order to put the ques-

278

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tion before the house, your Committee presents the following motion
and moves its adoption:
"That the present policy of the Grand Lodge be not changed
to admit Lodge Secretaries who are not members of the Grand
Lodge during the opening ceremonies thereof or during an election therein."
Adopted.

CHARITY CONTRIBU TIONS
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was referred the resolution to amend Section 158 reports as follows:
Section 158 now provides that in lieu of a floral piece for a deceased
person, the Lodge may, when requested by the family, make a contribution to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund. The resolution proposes
that under the same circumstances the contribution may be made to any
other charity selected by the family.
This Grand Lodge, at previous communications, has decided that
Lodges should not be encouraged or allowed to use Lodge funds to make
contributions to community chests, heart funds, boys' towns or other
charities. These ·decisions were sound because if the Lodge makes a contribution to one charity it immediately gets on the solicitation lists of
other charities and, as you brethren know, it is difficult to say "no" to
one charity when they remind you that you have helped another or a
competing charity. The fact that the contribution was made in lieu of
flowers does not show on the solicitation list and the minute the Lodge
makes a contribution it is going to be besieged with requests for other
contributions. The door is open and will be pushed wider.
There is another reason for our recommendation on this resolution.
Masonry, and that means your Lodge and you brethren, are supporting
two fine charities, the two Masonic Homes, plus Boards of Relief for
sojourning Masons, plus Employment Services, plus helping your needy
brethren. We are in the nature of a charitable institution. Charities do
not contribute to each other.
Brethren, if Bowers are not desired by the family, a letter of sympathy is much more appreciated and more personal than any contribution
to another charity, and it doesn't bring down upon your heads dozens of
requests for donations. You have wisely kept this door closed and we
recommend that you continue to keep it closed. We recommend a "no"
vote on this resolution.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

LIABILITY INSURANC E
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred the recommendations of the Special Committee on Insurance,
reports as follows:
The report presents a serious problem which might become tragic

279

today, tomorrow or anytime. Approximately 214 Lodges do not have any
protection against damage suits based on persons being injured in the
premises they occupy or by reason of negligence of their representatives.
The members of these 214 Lodges are without any protection from such
suits and might be bankrupted at any time.
Let me illustrate what I mean. Suppose someone attending one of
these Lodges fell downstairs because of a faulty carpet, a worn step or
some similar reason and broke an arm or a leg. That person might sue
the Lodge and every member in it and collect any judgment from the
Lodge or any or all of the members of that Lodge.
Suppose the Master of the Lodge was driving his car on Lodge business and ran into someone. That person might sue the Lodge and every
member of that Lodge and collect damages from the Lodge or any or
all of the members of that Lodge.
That would be tragic and could very well bankrupt that Lodge and
every member of it and yet these 214 Lodges have no liability insurance
to protect themselves or their members. Why? I don't know. This
protection could be secured for only a few cents per member each year.
There is the problem and its possible tragic result of no insurance.
What is the answer?
The Special Committee on Insurance has suggested two alternatives.
One is to have Grand Lodge secure a blanket policy to cover Grand
Lodge and all constituent Lodges and pay the cost. Your Committee
does not approve this proposal because approximately 159 Lodges carry
their own insurance with local people, or through their members, and
want to conti:g,ue to do so. They are not part of the problem.
The other proposal is that all constituent Lodges be required to
carry the same broad coverage and amounts of insurance as Grand
Lodge carries, furnish evidence of such insurance to the Grand Secretary or be covered by insurance secured by Grand Lodge and cost thereof
charged to the Lodge.
Your Committee does not believe the Lodges should be required to
carry the same amount of insurance that Grand Lodge carries, because
the Lodges may not all need this extensive coverage, but we do believe
that all Lodges should carry liability insurance because, as I have stated,
if they do not they are inviting bankruptcy for themselves and their
members. No Lodge should place itself or its members in this position.
Your Committee accordingly makes the following recommendations:
1. That all constituent Lodges be required to carry adequate liability
insurance and furnish evidence of such insurance to the Grand Secretary
before December first of each year. If such evidence of insurance is not
received ·before December 1st, then the Grand Secretary shall have the
authority to purchase adequate liability insurance for the account of the
constituent Lodge and collect the premium from such Lodge.
2. That this subject ·he made a part of the discussions at District

280

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Officers Meetings and Inspectors Conferences each year to acquaint
the officers of Lodges and inspectors with the liabilities involved and
the necessity for adequate coverage.
Brethren, Grand Lodge has for many years tried to bring this problem to the attention of Lodges and Lodge Officers but we still have
approximately 214 Lodges who have done nothing about it. We cannot,
in good conscience, allow the members of these Lodges to be left .open
to this liability. It could be tragic yet it can be taken care of for a few
cents per member.
We move the adoption of this resolution.
Adopted.

DE MOLAY SPONSORSIBP

The following resolution, proposed by Brother John Raatz, Senior
Warden of San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668, has been submitted to your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes for recommendation:
"Whereas, the present ordinances of the Grand Lodge of California
prevent constituent Lodges from giving direct aid to De Molay Chapters, and
Whereas the De Molay Chapter in Banning is now without a sponsor and has no prospect of acquiring one, and
Whereas, other Grand Lodges such as Massachusetts do permit
such aid,
Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Grand Lodge of California
adopt a resolution to permit constituent Lodges to sponsor such De
Molay Chapters."
Your Committee finds itself in a position identical to that of an
earlier Committee on Policy and General Purposes which, in 1924 (See
Section 521 of Ordinances), reported that despite an entire accord and
sympathy with the ideals, aims, and purposes of the Order of De Molay,
the Committee did not "Feel that this Grand Body should take over the
responsibility for the movement, splendid and helpful as it is."
Grand Master Crites, in 1924, voiced the policy which has governed
our attitude in this respect since that time, when he reminded the Grand
Lodge that the "De Molay organization is not an adjunct of Masonry
nor a recruiting ground for Masonry."
Your Committee considers it not at all unlikely that authorized sponsorship of De Molay Chapters would soon lead to embarrassing demands
for similar sponsorship of Bethels of Job's Daughters and other organizations claiming alliance with Masonry, responsibility for which this Grand
Lodge cannot accept.
Your Committee, therefore, feels that it must concur in the findings
of the predecessor Committee: and recommends that, despite a temporary adverse effect upon the Banning Chapter, the sponsorship of any
De Molay Chapter by a Lodge of this Jurisdiction be not approved, and
that the proposed resolution be rejected.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

281

PER CAPITA TAX LIMITATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Past Masters Christianson, Fitkin, McAdams, MacKellar, Page, and
Kincaid of Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192 having submitted the following
resolution:
"That the necessary legislation be enacted whereby the Per
Capita Tax assessed the constituent Lodges by the Grand Lodge,
shall not exceed 203 (twenty percent) of the minimum dues established by the Grand Lodge,"
and such resolution having been referred by the Grand Master to your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
Your Committee reports as follows:
1. Reference to Sec. 251 of the Ordinances discloses that the present
assessment, established by this Grand Lodge during previous Communications as a minimum requirement for effective operation, is in excess
of the proposed 203 limitation.
2. Your Committee considers that legislation establishing a speciBed
limit upon the aforesaid Per Capita Tax will result in unnecessary and
undesirable inflexibility by virtue of the provisions of Sec. 350 of the
Ordinances, namely, that a 5/6th vote of the members present at any
future Communication would be required to effect any necessary adjustment of the tax.
3. Your Committee feels that the members of the Grand Lodge, at
the annual Communications, should remain free, as they are at present,
to adjust the per capita assessment upon constituent Lodges in accordance with the current requirement, unhampered by any inflexible limiting
Ordinance.
For these reasons, your Committee recommends that the proposed
resolution be not adopted.
Past Grand Master Lawlor's point of order that "the resolution is
out of order" was sustained by the Grand Master.

INVESTMENT OF LODGE FUNDS
A resolution drawn by O. J. Wohlgemuth, Master of Alamo Lodge
No.122, WalnutCreek:
"Because in the building of the California Memorial Masonic
Temple a large sum of money is needed to finance the project and
he<:ause the Masons of California must wholeheartedly push the
project to completion, and
"Because the constituent Lodges of California have funds at
their disposal which, if invested in securities of the California
Memorial Temple, would be of inestimable help in raising the
necessary funds to complete the said Memorial Temple,
"BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that the constituent
Lodges may invest their Life Membership Funds in securities of

282

283

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

!he California ~~morial Masonic Temple when, as, and if a plan
is adopted prov1dmg for the repayment to constituent Lodges of
such funds when invested: said plan to provide for the payment
of the same interest rates as do securities of the United States
government and/or the State of California."
and a similar resolution, likewise drawn by Brother Wohlgemuth:
"Because, as time goes on, it may be desirable to include some
other method of financing the Grand Lodge Memorial Masonic
Temple, and
"Because the present plan of financing does not provide any
alternate type of financing, thereby preventing constituent Lodges
from investing any of their reserve funds or accumulated funds
"B.E IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that an added plan ~f
financing be adopted which will call for the repayment of funds
~nvested in the California Memorial Masonic Temple, when such
investments are made by constituent Lodges, and which will bear
an interest rate comparable to like securities, and
"BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the several constituent Lodges may invest the same portion of their funds in the
California Memorial Masonic Temple securities as they may
prese~t~y invest in common stocks admitted to exchange by the
Secur!~es Exchange Commission of the United States government.
submitted .to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes for rec?mmendati~n, ar~ felt by your Committee to be premature and not subJect to consideration at this time.
No determina~~on ha.s •. as yet, been made regarding the requirement
for •• ~r nature of, securities of the California Memorial Masonic Temple, consequently, no basis exists for discussion of investment of constituent Lodge funds in such securities, at this time. However, if it
becomes appropriate to consider these subjects at a future date this can
be done.
Your Committee, . therefore, recommends that these resolutions be
not adopted at this Communication.
A motion to adopt the two original resolutions was defeated.

certain charitable Foundation or Foundations wherein the principal purpose of which, among others, shall be the owning and
operating of Masonic Temples for the use of such Grand Lodge,
and that all surplus funds from the operation thereof by such
Foundation or Foundations shall be, from time to time, disbursed
and/or donated to the Masonic Homes of California, a non-profit
California corporation."
In the opinion of your Committee, it would be extremely unwise to
allow the Grand Lodge to become a party to a so-called tax savings device for the benefit of unnamed Masonic Temples.
The subject of so...called Charitable Foundations is continually being
screened and scrutinized by the various tax authorities of the State and
of the Nation. Any participation on our part in such a move could very
likely endanger the present satisfactory tax structure which our Masonic
Homes Corporation enjoys.
The Masonic Homes and its Endowment Fund have long been considered in a favorable light by the various tax agencies and any move
which might limit or destroy such a benefit should be looked upon with
disfavor.
We, therefore, recommend a "NO" vote on the resolution.
A motion to adopt the original resolution was defeated.

HAWAIIAN VISITATION
Past Grand Master Leslie Wood reported for the Committee on
Policy relative 'to the recommendation of the Grand Master that Past
Grand Master Wood make a trip to the Hawaiian Islands. Brother
Wood moved that the Grand Master's recommendation be not adopted,
and the vote being taken the recommendation of the Committee was
not adopted.
The question being raised as to just what the situation was after the
Report of the Committee on Policy relative to the Hawaiian Islands had
been rejected, and to clarify the matter, the Deputy Grand Master asked
those who wished Past Grand Master Wood to go to the Islands to
vote "yes" and those opposed to vote "no."
The affirmative vote prevailed.

FORMATION OF CHARITABLE FOUNDATION

MASONIC INFORMATION

There has been referred to the Policy and General Purposes Committee a resolution adopted by Ionic Lodge No. 520.
Deleting the various preambles, it provides as follows:
"NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED: That Grand
Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California, take steps at its
105th Annual communication, to be held October 11, 1954 to
October 15, 1954, inclusive, to organize or cause to be organized

- --------

There has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes the report of the Committee on Masonic Information.
This report calls attention to the untimely death of one of its members. Brother Robert F. Shippee, and in well chosen words pays a deserved tribute to him, as a man and Mason-a sentiment to which I am
sure this Grand Lodge will subscribe. The report also states that since
the "707 Questions and Answers About Freemasonry" has been reject- '

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ed. no further material of this nature has been attempted by that com. mittee.
No recommendation is made in the report to this Grand Lodge and
no resolution is presented.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes therefore recommends that the report be accepted as read.
Adopted. ·

IN GRAND LODGE

284

PROCEDURE FOR MEMORIAL TEMPLE ERECTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The following resolution has been submitted to the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes:
·
1. "That no work be commenced on the California Memorial Temple
until sufficient.money 'to erect, complete, furnish and equip said Temple
in its entirety to the end such Temple may be dedicated unencumbered."
2. "That neither the credit of this Grand Lodge nor any of its agencies be pledged directly or indirectly, nor shall any of its securities or
property owned by it or any of its agencies be used as security or collateral in the borrowing of any money for the purpose of erecting, furnishing or equipping said Temple without prior approval of this Grand
Lodge at an Annual Communication called for by that purpose."
Your Committee r~ports as follows:
I. The Grand Lodge in 1953 approved longe term financing as part
of the building program.
2. The Grand Lodge has provided ample safeguards against any
unsound financing in required approval by the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior Grand Warden, the Junior Grand Warden,
the Grand Treasurer, the Grand Secretary, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, and the Chairman of the Committee on Lodge Financing of any financing plan.
3. That the above Committee should not be hampered by restriction
as set forth in this resolution.
4. Your Committee recommends that the resolution be not adopted
(rejected).
The resolution failed of adoption.
At 5:05 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A. M. Friday.

285

MORNING SESSION, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1954
Grand Lodge was called on at 9: 30 A. M., the Grand Master presiding.
The Very Reverend Grand Chaplain directed the thoughts of the
brethren toward a General Intercession for the Past, the Present and
the Future.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday,
Octdber 14, were read and approved.

PROPOSED MEMORIAL TEMPLE ASSESSMENTS
There has been ref erred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes three resolutions proposing assessments for the construction
of the Memorial Temple.
One resolution proposes an assessment of $4.00 per year for a period
of four years against each member of the jurisdiction; to be paid annually at the time the member pays his Lodge dues and for which he is
to be billed by the Lodge Secretary-that any member who has heretofore contributed to the fund, shall, at his option, be given credit upon
said assessment in the amount of his voluntary contribution-that each
Lodge shall have authority to pay from its general funds on behalf of
any member unable to do so, any part of the assessment-that each
Lodge shall be liable for the full amount of the assessment, proportionate
to the membership of such Lodge, in the same manner it is liable for per
capita taxes levied by Grand Lodge.
The second resolution proposes that:
"The Grand Lodge of California reaffirms the goal recommended in
the 1953 Annual Communication with the understanding that if said
goal is not attained through voluntary subscription from the members,
that the difference between the voluntary subscription and the goal of
$10.00 per member shall be paid out of the general funds of the Lodge.
One half of said difference to be remitted not later than October 1, 1955,
and the balance not later than October 1, 1956-that the total of such
obligation shall be computed on the January 1. 1955 membership of the
Lodge.''
The third resolution proposes that, effective January l, 1955 and
ending December 31, 1958, an assessment of $16.00 shall be levied
against all present and/or future members within the life of the resolution, financially able to pay, to be paid either in one lump sum or in four
equal installments of four dollars each year, subject to the remission of,
and under the same conditions, as are dues, all funds when and as collected by the Secretary of subordinate Lodges to be remitted to the

286

287

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge, together with and as a part of the annual report, or more
often if desired. The assessment to be collected from each applicant for
re-instatement and/or membership by affiliation from a Lodge in another
jurisdiction, when the member has not previously paid-that a Lodge
may pay the entire assessment against its membership from the general
funds of the Lodge, if it chooses so to do.
On the basis of the splendid record in so short a period of time, we
feel that the campaign should be continued on a voluntary basis as recommended by the Memorial Temple Committee, and that greater effort
be made by the Masters of the constituent Lodges to convince their
members that 'failure to achieve the goal on a voluntary basis will doubtless result in an assessment against the Lodges or the members individually at some later date.
We feel that at this time the resolutions to levy assessments should
not :be approved by this Grand Lodge.
Each .proposal for assessment was submitted to Grand Lodge separately.
Each proposal failed of adoption.

was empowered to proceed with the preparation of plans. The program
for a Temple was de8nitely under way!
At this Communication, we presented a report covering the results
of the directive given a year ago. The program of individual voluntary
contributions had produced a total slightly less than $900,000. These
contributions had been received from approximately 50,000 membersless than 25 % of our total membership. Only 40 odd Lodges were listed
on the Merit Roll (which named those Lodges having achieved the
quota of $10.00 per member).
The Memorial Temple Committee will determine the mechanical
plan which is to be followed during the coming year. They realize that
the setup of a year ago did not contemplate the lack of interest and the
lack of knowledge with reference to our Fraternity-which were true in
many instances. It is to be assumed that the program which they develop
for the coming year will include a method of overcoming this lack of
information and this lack of interest. It will be necessary to re-enthuse
the Past Masters of our Lodges. They must be brought to a realization
that their work was not finished when they accepted a title and secured
the right to wear the Past Master's Jewel. Every honor carries with it
responsibility. They have received the honor! They should now shoulder
the responsibility!
The average member must be brought to realize that he has a part
in the Grand Lodge. He takes pride in his Masonic membership. He is
aware that he could not be a member of the Fraternity without having
a Lodge in which to hold his membership. He must be reminded that the
Lodge would not pe possible were it not for the Grand Lodge. The Grand
Lodge issued the charter for his Lodge. The Grand Lodge is the central
organization in which his Lodge, together with the others, legislates for
the Fraternity in this Jurisdiction. Without the Grand Lodge, the individual member could not have the membership which he prizes. Both
groups must be brought to recall that portion of their obligation in
which they agreed to support the edicts and regulations of their Grand
Lodge. The financing and the building of a Temple are the decisions of
Grand Lodge. They have the force of an edict! The Past Masters and
the individual members are bound to respect and conform to that edict!
In concluding, Brother Siems reminded the representatives that the
decision as to procedure had been made by them, and that the responsibility for success rested with them.

REVIEW OF MEMORIAL TEMPLE PROGRAM
Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems, as Chairman of the Grand
Lodge Committee on Memorial Temple, pointed out to the brethren
that the Temple Committee accepted the decision of the representatives
to continue the program for raising funds on a voluntary basis. He emphasized that the Committee would formulate their plans in accordance
with the directive of the Annual Communication.
Brother Siems pointed out that a year of intensive activity had just
been completed following the planning of the project since 1947. Prior
to that date, there had been a realization that someday we must consider
a new home for Grand Lodge. Beginining in 1947 there had come an
acute realization that a decision must be reached now. Each year it has
become more evident that an adequate temple be provided-<>r an inescapable alternative be faced: without adequate meeting space each
Lodge in the jurisdiction would be limited to a single representative,
because the number attending on this basis would fill to capacity the
largest room available at 25 Van Ness Avenue. The Memorial Temple
Committee realizes that the adoption of this alternative would terminate
the democratic procedure of this Grand Lodge.
A year ago, the determination to build a Temple was reconsidered
and reiterated. The Memorial Temple Committee was given a directive
to proceed with the accumulation of funds. Their suggested program
(that each Lodge be requested to collect from its members an amount
equal to $10.00 per member) was approved. Emphasis was placed on the
propriety of individual contributions being equal to a day's pay. At this
time, the purchase of the site on ~ob Hill was ratified and the Committee

CALLING UP PROCEDURES
The Grand Master pointed out that the following members of his
own Lodge, Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, had been stationed in the
East for the purpose of calling up Grand Lodge at the several sessions
as follows:
Monday morning, October 11th-Dan Mackinnon, Master

288

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Monday afternoon, October 11th-Joe Bookman, Past Master
(1934)
Tuesday morning, October 12th-C. Earle Crane, Past Master
(1946)
Tuesday afternoon, October 12th-Frederick A. Fox, Past Master
(1943)
Wednesday morning, October 13th-Robert E. Reel, Senior
Warden
T'hursday morning, October 14th-Dr. George E. Hall, Past
Master ( 1941)
Thursday afternoon, October 14th-Frank M. Jenkins, Past Master
(1949)
Friday morning, October 15th-Wiley E. Williamson, Past Master
( 1936)
Friday afternoon, October 15th-Frank Freeman, Junior Warden

GRAND LODGE OFFICERS

ANNUAL ELECTION
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying to the same.
The Grand Master then appointed the following brethren to serve
as tellers:
Kenneth E. Carmichael, Senior Warden, Service No. 594.
Harold C. Mclendon, Master, Gardena No. 372.
Karl D. Haberern, Master, Apollo No. 396.
Austin D. Hinck, Master, La Mesa No. 407.
Lyle H. Williams, Senior Warden, La Mesa No. 407.
Chester D. Blanchard, Junior Warden, La Mesa No. 407.
Hugh H. Farnham, Senior Warden, Mizpah No. 378.
Joseph E. Stephens, Junior Warden, Mizpah No. 378.
William S. Brannan, Senior Warden, Alexandria No. 531.
James M. Taylor, Senior Warden, Hawthorne No. 647.
Cornelius W. Frields, Junior Warden, Hawthorne No. 647.
Samuel L. Brinkley, Junior Warden, Chula Vista No. 626.
John J. Garrison, Senior Warden, Victorville No. 634.
Richard H. Dachner, Past Master, Hermann No. 127.
Orval A. Myers, Past Master, Plumas No. 60.
David H. Terry, Past Master, South Gate No. 320.
Donald G. Campbell, Past Master, Granada No. 608.
Carl W. Gross, Past Master, South Gate No. 320.

289

The R. W. Henry C. Clausen, Ingleside Lodge No. 630, was elected
Grand Master.
The R. W. Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Loyalty Lodge No. 529, was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. L Harold Anderson, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, was
elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Leo E. Anderson, Hollywood Lodge No. 355, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The M. W. Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master, Plymouth Lodge
No. 560, was elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge
No. 630, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Elbert W. Davis, Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571,
was re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Wm. E. McCormack, Ingleside Lodge No. 630.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell, North Butte Lodge
No. 230: Ralph M. Foote, Valley Lodge No. 135: Arthur J. Kahn, Paul
Revere Lodge No. 462: Raymond G. Taylor, Libertas Lodge No. 466:
Guy B. Mize, Unity Lodge No. 368: Clark H. Shaw, Long Beach Lodge
•
No. 327.
Grand Orator, Milton D. Sapiro, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Paul A. P8ueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco Lodge
No. 360.
Grand Marshall, Ira W. Coburn. Doric Lodge No. 216.
Grand Standard Bearer, Sidney L. Cruff, Selma Lodge No. 277.
Grand Sword Bearer, MacDowell Gardner, Meudell Lodge No. 695.
Grand Bible Bearer, W. S. L. Loo, Kilauea Lodge No. 330.
Senior Grand Deacon, Ralph T. Merriam, Pasadena Lodge No. 272.
Junior Grand Deacon. Lester S. McElwain, Yerba Buena Lodge No.
403.
Senior Grand Steward, John M. Lee, Warren G. Harding Lodge No.
579.
Junior Grand Steward, Maurice B. Ross, San Diego Lodge No. 35.
Grand Pursuivant, J. Frank McClory, San Joaquin Lodge No.19.
Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson, Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Alvin A. Horwege, Woodstock Lodge No. 491.
The Grand Secretary announced the appointment by the Grand

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Master-elect of Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren and of Ralph
H. Head as Trustees of the Masonic Homes for terms of three years
each.
Under date of November 2. 1954, the Grand Master announced the
appointment of Guy B. Mize as Trustee of the Masonic Homes to fill
the unexpired term of Leo E. Anderson, and the appointment of Donald
G. Campbell, Past Master of Granada Lodge No. 608. to fill the offi.ce
of Assistant Grand Lecturer vacated by the above appointment of Guy
B. Mize.
At 1 :15 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 2:30 P. M.

AFl'ERNOO N SESSION-F riday, October 15, 1954

290

291

Grand Lodge was called on at 2:30 P. M .. the Grand Master presiding.

INSTALLAT ION OF OFFICERS
The Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master, acted
as Master of Ceremonies, and the offi.cers. elected and appointed. were
installed by the retiring Grand Master in ample form.
The newly installed Grand Master invested his predecessor with a
Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Chas. Albert Adams insignia was transferred from the retiring
to the incumbent Grand Master, and the other chair offi.cers exchanged
the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The J. Everett Houser lapel pin was transferred from the retiring to
the incumbent Orator.
The Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master, invested the retiring Grand Master with the apron of a Past Grand
Master. Worshipful D. A. MacKinnon, Master of Beverly Hills Lodge
No. 528, on behalf of the members of Grand Lodge, presented a gift to
Mrs. Frank Harwell. Jr .• and it was accepted by the Junior Past Grand
Master in her behalf.
At 3:50 P.M .• all business being completed, Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

4Q.~
Grand Master

~~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL

293

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page
Budget for 1954-55 ..........................................................................

294

Audit of Annual Retums-1954 ....................................................

295

Financial Report-Grand Lodge:
Auditor's Certification ............................................................

296

Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities..................298-299
Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and
Disbursements ...................................................................300-301
Grand Lodge Audit ..................................................................

302

Financial Report-Masonic Homes:
Auditor's Certification ·········.···················································
Balance Sheet ..........................................................................

312
315

Cash Receipts and Disbursements ..........................................

323

Statement of Revenue and Expenses ......................................

322

Securities Owned ....................................................................

316

Endowment Fund Audit ..........................................................

327

California Masonic Memorial Temple Audit......·-··················-···.;

336

Statistical:
Details of Masonic Homes ......................................................

339

Number of Residents, Decoto and Covina......................

356

Per Capita Cost Decoto and Covina.................·-··········
Contributions to Special Funds ......................................

356
357

294

295

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BUDGET FOR 1954-1955

AUDIT OF 1954 ANNUAL RETURNS

The Finance Committee proposed the following budget for the current fiscal year:
Administrative and Office

!~1:~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
$ u~u~
Grand Treasurer ........................................................................
4

Postage and Express..................................................................
Telephone and Telegraph......................................................:.
Bonds, Supplies, Sundry..........................................................
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes..........................
Investment Counsel ..................................................................

$ 58,800.00

General Expense

Annual Communication .......................................................... $15,000.00
Conference ···················-····························································· 4,500.00
Grand Lodge Officers-Travel Expense.............................. 5,000.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler............................................
400.00
Grand Master:
7,000.00
R"i~~:f1!~~se__ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1,750.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges......................·-····················· 4,000.00
Lodge Insurance ·····-········-······················-···-·········-··············· 5,000.00
925.00
Grand Master's Portrait..·-············-······-··········-········-····-·····

~fu~:i.~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 20,000.00

30,000.00

Ritualistic E~pense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer ..................................................................
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery................................ 1,500.00
Travel Expense .................................................................. 11,500.00
750.00
Relief Fund, Grand Master......................................·-··-·······

~~~~~z;:e~~ft~~s··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Miscellaneous ···········································-·······························
TOTAL ........................................................................

900.00
2,500.00
2,000.00

Net .............•............................216,347 @

2.40

519,232.80

Total due···········································"·································· 547,435.80
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer.................. 546,581.85
Balance due ·········································-····-···-··--·-·--:::::1::::==8=5=3=.9=5

Total due ··········-·································································· 182,048.50
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer.................. 182,048.50

$113,325.00

Activities Committee ···························································-··· $ 4,500.00
Board of Contr~l........................................................................ 1,250.00
Charter~ Committee ................................................................
1,000.00
Colun;ibia. Te~le ...................................................................... 1,400.00
Constitution onth ···············································-·················
500.00
Correspondence Committee .................................................... 8,000.00
De Molay Committee................................................................
500.00
~mployment Bureaus .............................................................. 15,450.00
Hf}dowment B<:>ard ·························-········································· 10,000.00
IStory qommittee :··-························································--···
250.00
~grm~~on Committee ···········-······-··-··-··········-··-··-····-···
100.00
ge . mance Committee...................................................... 1,600.00
Mem!mal Temple Committee............................................·-··· 32,500.00

4,ooo.oo

Su. cations Com~ittee ·····································-··················· 3,500.00
UoJ_ourn~rs Committee ............................................................
100.00
S niversity Club Houses·-······················---·--······-····-··--··-· 38,000.00
tevenson's Grave ···········-··-··········-·······································
350.00
TOTAL ·······-··-··-··-··-··-··--··-··-··-··--··-····-···-···

Per capita:
1954 membership ........................219 ,664
Less, dues remitted...................... 3,317

Masonic Homes:
Fourth qmu;ter 1954, $25.00 contributions........................$ 73,875.00
Per capita-216,347 members@ 50c.................................. 108,173.50

Appropriations

~u~llc ~chools We~k................................................................

September 29, 1954

We have audited the current 1954 annual returns from constituent
Lodges up to and including September 28, 1954. As determined from
the returns, the following amounts are collectible:
Grand Lodge:
Degrees conferred ............................ 28,203 @ $1.00 $ 28,203.00

1,000.00
2,500.00
1,500.00
1,700.00
1,000.00
900.00

TOTAL ........................................................................

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:

$123,000.00

George Washington Memorial Endowment:
Fourth quarter 1954, $1.00 contributions.......................... $
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer..................

2,648.00
2,648.00

California Masonic Memorial Temple:
Fourth quarter 1954, $9.00 contributions..........................$ 21,634.00
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer.................. 21,634.00
All returns have been received and paid in full with the amount
shown by returns as computed. The balance still due represents errors
made in various returns and are now in process of collection.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER A. PARKER
Certified Public Accountant

296

297

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

. GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Cash receipts were accounted for and deposited in the proper bank
accounts by the Grand Treasurer. Disbursements were made by checks and
supported by properly approved vouchi;rs. The disbursements mad~ by the
Grand Secretary were from his Operating Fund bank account. Rermb~­
ments to the Operating Fund by µie G~d Treasurer were not made. until I
had audited and approved the bills, which was done month1;y. Dur~ the
current year all bills paid by the Grand Secretary were provided for m the
Budget or had the approval of the Grand Master.
Bank balances were verified by corre~pondence with the depos~tarie.s.
A certified list of the securities ~ .received from ~e Angl<? California
National Bank which holds the secunties for safe-keeping. All interest and
dividends due were received.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 paid $2,650.00 during the year, which paid their
account in full.
In my opinion, the attached statements present fairly the financial position of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California at July 31, ~954 and the
results of its activities for the fiscal year 1953-54 on a cash bas1S.
·
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER A. PARKER
Certified Public Accountant

October 2, 1954
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San ~cisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and financial records of the
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA for the fiscal year ended July
31, 1954 and present herewith the following statements.
Consolidated Statements
Exhibit AA: Consolidated statement of assets and liabilities, owned or
under control of Grand Lodge, as of July 31, 1954.
Exhibit BB: Consolidated statement of cash receipts and disbursements,
for funds of, or controlled by Grand Lodge, August 1, 1953 to July 31, 1954.
Grand Lodge

Exhibit A: Statement of assets and liabilities, July 31, 1954.
Schedule 1: List of securities owned, July 31, 1954.
Exhibit B: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements, August 1, 1953
to July 31, 1954.
Schedule 2: Statement of Grand Lodge per capita dues collected from
1953 annual returns.
Schedule 3: Comparison of budget and expenditures, 1953-54.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's statement of cash receipts and disbursements, August 1, 1953 to July 31, 1954.
Exhibit D: Grand Secretary's resume of cash received, August 1, 1953 to
July 31, 1954.
Schedule 4: Statement of Masonic Homes per capita dues and $25.00
contributions collected during the year 1953-54.
Comments
As shown on Exhibit AA of this report, the combined assets of Grand
Lodge, the Masonic Homes and the Endowment Fund now exceed $11,500,000.00; an increase of $400,000.00 over last year. Exhibit BB shows that over
$3,000,000.00 was received and a like amount disbursed by these three entities.
Over one-half of the disbursements were for the purchase of securities and
other assets, for the transfer of cash among the funds, and to meet the obligations of the various funds. Grand Lodge maintains an adequate aystem of
safe-guards to insure the safety of this flow of money, and the safety of the
assets owned.
The above comments and figures do not include the cash and other
assets of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, a corporation organized
to own and operate the proposed Masonic Memorial Temple. We have prepared a separate report thereon.
The expenses and appropriations of Grand Lodge exceeded the revenue
received by $26,111.56. The main cause of this deficit was three unbudgeted
items which were approved by the Grand Master, earthquake damage allowance to Maricopa Building Association of $10,000.00 and Tehachapi Temple
Association of $5,000.00 and Memorial Temple Committee expenses of
$41,795.06.
Schedules 2 and 4 show proof of the revenue due from the Lodges in
accordance with their 1953 annual returns and the $25.00 Homes contributions reported received up to July 31, 1954. The total amount due, as shown,
agrees with the total cash received from the Lodges by the Grand Secretary.

298

299

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXHIBIT
CONSOUDATED STATEMENT OF
OWNED OR UNDER CONTROL OF GRAND

AA
ASSETS AND LIABIUTIES
LODGE-JULY 31, 1954

ASSETS

TOTAL

Cash

Custody of the Grand Treasurer..............................:......... ·····················-

Endowment Fund

(Exhibit A)

(Exhibit A)

(Exhibit A)

69,915.72
20,000.00
500.00

$ 428,124.32

$

428,124.32

$ 996,707.43 $

~~!~~!:i ~~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::~--~--~·-·.·:.·.·::.~.~=

Decato and Covino residents' accounts.......·-·-·························-······-.illlll
Deposits in transit ······················································································-

66,697 .69
3,000.00
10,210.45
1,853.50

Total cash ···································································-·························-

1,078,469.07

90,415.72

1,559.93

989.34

4,006,408.27
3,017,861.86
339,850.00
83,729.72

167,915.50
275,079.28
339,850.00

Accounts Receivable ···---··-······-··-········-········-··-··-··········-··-··-·······················Investments:

Masonic: Homes

Grand Lodge

559,929.03
570.59

Custody of Grand Treasurer:

~fo~: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::=

Stock of Masonic Temple Association, San Francisco ................__
Notes and contracts receivable.....................:.................................__.
Custody of the Grand Secretary:
Life insurance policies ..........................................:............................._
Real estate and sundry items......................·-·················-···············-~

8,832.08
2,857.00

Properties: (at cost)

3,232,030.50
1,928,464.45

606,462.27
814,318.13

11,971.88

71,757.84

13.00
2.00

8,819.08
2,855.00

5,172,481.83

1.504.212.32
2,986,918.12

2,986,918.12

Land, buildings and equipment-Decato and Covina. ...................... -

36,706.44

36,706.44

Inventories - Dec:oto and CoTlna..·-··-··············-························--····················-4

Total assets ···································································-·················-

782,844.78

7,459,538.93

Total investments ············································································-

498,667 .39
46,697.69
2,500.00
10,210.45
1,853.50

$11,563,192.49

$

874,249.84

10,832.89

$

6,782.00

$ 5,600,606.15

$ 5,088,336.50

LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities:

Accounts payable ················································································Reserves:

$

$

4,050.89
1,460,121.93

Funds held in trust and for special purposes.............................:...:.........

1,460,121.93

Capital ·····-····-··-··-·---··-··-----··-··-·------·--··-··-··-··-··-·-~-······-··-·...._

10,092,237.67

867,467.84

5,600,606.15

3,624,163.68

$11,563,192.49

$ 874,249.84

$ 5,600,606.15

$ 5,088,336.50

Total liabilities, reserves and capital......-·-------····--...-·

..

NOTE: The above figures were compiled from the three separate audit reports and can be found on Exhibit A. of each report.
. Details of the Reserve Funds are shown on separate schedules in the
Masonic Homes report.

301

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

300

EXH IBIT
CON SOL IDAT ED STA TEM ENT OF
ND
FRO M FUN DS OF, OR CON TRO LLED BY GRA

BB
CAS H REC EIPT S AND DISB URS EME NTS
LOD GE - AUG UST 1, 1953 TO JULY 31, 1954
Custo dy of

Total

Dilbu rseme nts

Balan ce
July 31. 1954

806,660.42

$ 973,794.23

$ 890,160.51

$

7,006.00

9,923.00

16,929.00

5,822.93

31 622 85
' ·

31,622.85
5,822.93

179,962.74

848,206.27

434,868.69
22,419.24

Balan ce
Augus t l. 1953

Grand Lodge (Exhi bit B•)

Recei pts

Grand

Treas urer

Opera ting
Funds

20,500.00

83,633.72 $

63,133.72 $

10,147.00

6,782.00

6,782.00

1,028,169.01

31,622.85
5,822.93
937,753.29

90,415.72

69,915.72

20,500.00

1,068,125.63
38,570.66

1,502,994.32
60,989.90

960,084.30
43,970.89

542,910.02
17,019.01

457,287.93

1,106,696.29

1,563,984.22

1,004,055.19

559,929.03

491,858.83
61808.56
498,667.39

51,051.19
10,210.45
61,261.64

471,152.93
Endo wmen t Fund (Exhi bit B*) ···-··· --···-· ··
10,256.53
··········
········-·
C*>···
bit
(Exhi
Fund
h
Luckenbac
481,409.46
Total Endo wmen t Fund cash. .........·-··-·Consolidated cash totals ·············--··-··-··-$ 1,118,660.13

1,159,632.05
1,000.00

1,630,784.98
11 1256.53

1,213,495.99
421.20

417,288.99
10,835.33

417,288.99
10,835.33

1,160,632.05

1,642,041.51
$4,234,194. 74

1,213 1917.19
$3,155,725.67

--.$
Gene ral Fund ....
George Washington Masonic
National Memorial Endo wmen t Fund......
George Washington Masonic
National Memorial per capit a fund............
Cente nnial Fund ................................................
Total Gran d Lodge cash. ...........................

Masonic Homes:

······-···-············
Gene ral Fund ···········-··············-..........
................
..........
..........
trust
in
held
s
Fund
Total Masonic Homes cash..·-···················

167,133.81

$

Endow ment Fund:

•NOTE:

$ 3,115,534.61

indica te where the
The Ezhib ita referr ed to ·in the paren theses
s.
report
audit
te
separa
the
in
detail s may be found

428,124.32
428,124.32
$1,078,469.07 $ 996,707.43

$ 81,761.64

302

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGB OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Exhibi t A
Statem ent of Assets and Liabilit ies
July 31. 1954

Schedu le 1
Statem ent of Securit ies Owned
July 31. 1954

Assets:
Cash in Banks:
Grand Treasu rer's bank accoun ts (Exhibi t C) ..·-··-···$ 69,915.72
Grand Secreta ry's bank accoun ts........................·-······· 20,500.00 $ 90,415.72

Investm ents: (Schedu le 1)
167,915.50
Bonds ·····-··--························································-·············
················-··········· 275,079.28
··-········
·-··-··-····-··-·····
·······-····
Stocks
Stock in Masoni c Temple Associa tion
(San Francis co) ···················-··-··········-·······-..··-··· - 339,850.00
Other Assets:
Due from Lodges for public liability insuran ce....... .
Refund able deposi ts-airli nes ·······-······-··········-···········

Liabilit ies and Capital
Accoun ts Payabl e:
George Washin gton Masoni c Nation al
Memo rial-fo r initiate s contrib utions..................... .

Cost:
Bonds:
1,992.50
$
.....
•............
.......
.............
1982
$ 2 000 Dow Chemic al Compa ny, 3%,
1,925.50
2'000 Interna tional Minera l & Chemic al Corp., 3.65%, 1977....•.
1,947.50
··-···
·-····-··-··--··-·
·--··--··
.•
1983
,
%
314
2' 000 Sinclai r Oil Corp.
. 2,050.00
2'000 Standa rd Oil Co~pany of Indiana , 3JA.%, 1982...-............ 40,000.00
21h%, 1958..·-··············-······· 30,000.00
40'.ooo U. s. Saving s Bonds, series G,
..
30,000 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1959.•..•.•..•....•...•....... 90,000.00
-··-·······
·-··········
.•
1960
21h%,
G,
series
90,000 U.S. Saving s Bonds,

--- -

782,8«. 78

139.34
850.00

Total assets ·······-························-···························

303

989.34
$874,249.84

$

6,782.00

.50
Total bonds ···-······ -··-··-·· ····-··-· ·-·----· ····--·-- ---······ · 167,915

Stocks:
Shares of preferr ed:
45 Canada Dry Ginger Ale, 414 %--·-······-·······.-·--·---·-··-·······
45 Food Machin ery & Chemic al Corp., 3¥,% ..·-······-···············
200 Kaiser Alumin um & Chemic al Corp., 5% ......•.......••..............
·
60 Liquid Carbon ic Corp., 31h %-·--··--····-·:-··-·-·· -·---··
··-···
-···················-··
%-··-·-·
41/,
Corp.,
al
Chemic
son
15 Mathie
180 Philade lphia Electric Compa ny, $1.00•.·-·····-·· -··-····-· ·-···
·········
45 United Aircraf t Corp., 5% ......·-·-······ -···-·-··- ··-··-·····
15 United Air Lines, Inc., 41h%-- ··-··-··-· ···-··--·· ·······-··· ·······

4,517.00
4,348.28
9,931.26
4,611.19
1,507.70
4,586.93
4,913.85
1,485.40

1
Total preferr ed stock·· ········- ··---··-- ·-·-··--····-·---· -····-· 35,901.6

Capital :
··-··-- ··········-· ·-········· -··-··-··· 946,574.90
Balance , August r1,of1953-·1953 option on land and
Deduct transfe
archite ct fees to Califor nia Masoni c
Memor ial Temple ···-··········-··-··-·· -··-······· ···········-··· 52,995.50

;;~e;·r:e:va;.~e;1953:54·;··········· 893,579.40
g~~~ccte~c!~j~~~;;-s~·d: (Exhib it B)
Revenu e receive
By Grand Secreta ry ·····························-···$266,265.16
By Grand Treasu rer .................................. 46,844.00

.

.16
?'.'otal ·······················-··························-··· 313,109
425.00
Prior year's expens e capitalized............

Total revenu e ·······-··-··········- ··-··-··- ··· 313' 534.16
Less expens es and approp riations
(Exhib it B) .............................................. 339,645. 72
Excess expens e for the year 1953-54........
26,111.56
Balance , July 31, 1984..•..••.•....•...•.....•.•.•.- .......

867,467.84

Total liabiliti es and capital ···-·······

$874,249.84

Shares of commo n:
·----··- ···
150 Air Reduct ion Compa ny ·---····· -··-··-·· -·-··-····-···-··-··-··-···---··-·
Corp.
45 Allied Chemic al & Dye
15 Americ an Teleph one & Telegra ph Compa ny....................... .
·
150 Anglo Califor nia Nationa l Bank. .................·---····················
150 Atlanti c Refinin g Compa ny···-········-····-··-··············-··-·········
·-···
60 Banker s Trust Compa ny ···············-······-··········-·-············
·········-· ·-··-··-- ··-.-·-·-···
90 Beatric e Foods Compa ny ···-······-·.............
············
·-···········
....
160 Centra l & Southw est Corp..............
320 Centra l Hudson Gas & Electric Corp...·-······-··········-·--··-···
75 Chase Nation al Bank ···-··-··· ···-··-··- ··-······- -·-····-·· -··--·-··
66 Chemic al Bank & Trust Compa ny..........................................
72 Clevela nd Electric illumin ating Compa ny ···-····· ..·····-··-·· ·
·-··-···
90 Columb ian Carbon Compa ny ·······-·-·-···········-······-··-·
·-···-···-···
Compa ny ···············--·-··-·
165 Commo nwealth Edison
90 Consol idated Edison Compa ny of New York, Inc.............
·····-····· ··
30 Contin ental Oil Compa ny ..............·-······-· ·--··-··-·
········
75 Corn Produc ts Refinin g Compa ny_·--- -·-··········-··-··--·
.·--·-········-······-·····
75 Dayton Power & Light Compa ny .............
82 Delawa re Power & Light Compa ny ........................................
··
150 Detroit Edison Compa ny ··--·····- ·-··-··-··- ··-·-··-··-··-·--·····
150 Duques ne Light Compa ny ·······-··-··············-···-·······················-·······
69 :East.man Kodak Compa ny --·········-··-··-··-······-·-·90 Food Machin ery & Chemic al Corp·--··-··········-·········-··-···
170 Genera l Public Utilitie s Corp•.•·-·---··- ······-·· -··-····· ·--···
49 Gulf Oil Corp. ···--····- ······-·-··- - - - - - - · · - · · - - · 60 Hercule s Powde r Compa ny..·-·····-···-············-········-··············
75 Home Insuran ce Compa ny of New York................................

4,523.05
3,502.67
2,280.91
5,201.22
4,914.08
2,730.00
3,254.45
2,710.63
3,421.60
2,765.63
2,610.00
3,407.19
4,195.45
5,171.49
2,926.62
1,890.77
4,986.23
2,796.19
1,999.08
3,408.14
4,177.50
2,768.52
4,290.20
3,383.78
2,429.70
4,017.54
3,156.91

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

90 lliinois Power Company .......................................................... 3,128.23
122 Kansas City Power & Light Company..·-··-··········-······-····· 3,354.70
75 Kennecott Copper Company···-··········-··················-··············· 5,156.15
75 Koppers Company, Inc. ···········-··-··········-······-··-······-··········· 3,352.71
100 Lone Star Gas Company..........·-··················-··········-··········-··· 2,414.64
45 Manufacturers Trust Company ................................................ 2,385.00
33,985 Masonic Temple Association of San Francisco.................... 339,850.00
171 Middle South Utilities, Inc.........·-········-··········-·····················- 4,195.42
210 Minnesota Power & Light Company............................·-······· 3,593.37
45 Monsanto Chemical Company···-··-··-························-··········· 4,084.70
150 Montana Power Company-·-··-··················-······-·-··-··-··-··· 3,216.07
60 Montgomery Ward & Company·--·-··-······-··-····-··-··-··-··· 3,770.32
75 Philip Morris & Company, Ltd...·-··············-······-··-··-······-··· 3,917.88
75 McKesson & Robbins, Inc•..·-······-··········································· 2,750.01
279 New England Electric System.................'·············-················· 3,518.47
148 New York State Electric & Gas Corp..................................... 3,608.94
181 Niagara Mohawk Power Company........................................ 4,295.78
330 Northern States Power Company......·-··-······-···-·--··-··-··· 3,302.16
1~g g~~o ~~on Company -·············-··········-········:·-······-············· 3,635.33
10
il Company ···········-······-··-··········-··-······-··-··-··········· 3,279.35
15 Owens lliinois Glass Company..............·-··············-··············· 1,095.20
103 Pacific Gas & Electric Company..·-········································· 3,324.54
1~g ~~~~ Davis ~ Company..............................·-···························
5,858.85
310 Publlps Pe~o eum C_ompany .................................................. 2,466.89
c Service Electric & Gas Company..........·-··················· 7,734.15
148 Public Service Company of Indiana.-··············-··-··-··········· 3,838.96
78 Ren:i.ington Rand, Inc. ·····-····-··-··-··················-··-··-··············· 1,577.65
66 St. Joseph Lead Company......·-··················-··························· 3,087.82
150 St. Regis Paper Company ·······································-··············· 2,996.37
62 Shell Oil Company ···············································-··········-······· 2,130.30
90 Southern California Edison Company.................................... 3,063.81
150 Standard Brands, Inc. ···-··························································· 3,426.99
150 Sterling Drug Company ···········-·····························-················ 5,923.98
30 Texas Gulf Sulphur Company ·······-··-··········-··········-··········· 3,225.50
150 Union Electric Company of MissoJ.U"L........-······-··············· 3,429.80
165 Union Oil Company of California............................................ 6,186.26
148 United Gas Corp. ···········-··-··········-······-··············-··················· 3,570.97
150 United Shoe Machinery Company..........·-····························· 6,285.98
100 Utah Power & Light Company................................................ 3,420.14
180 'j'isconsin Electric Power Company........................................ 3,208.73
75 . W. Woolworth Conipany••·-·-··-·-······-··-······-··-·········--· 3,446.00

305

Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August l. 1953 to July 31. 1954
Cash Balance, August 1, 1953-----··-·-·--..,.._...---·--·--'··*179,962.74
Received by the Grand Secretary
Per capita dues from Lodges:
1953 annual returns (Schedule 2) .•..•.·-··-··········-··---··-$239,312.00
For prior years ···-······-··-··---··-··-··-··-··-···-···-··-·-··
427 .58
Charters and dispensations -·-·-·-··-··-··-·····-··-··-··-··· 1,480.00
Sales of Masonic History books...---····----··-··-··-··-···
300.00
Sales of supplies--··-··-··-··--··-·-·-··-······-··········· 24,144.09
Refund of prior year relief expense ···-···························
221.04
Refund of expense allowanceGrand Master A. M. Warren..·-····--······-··-··-··-·······
55.45
Columbia Temple rental·---······--:-··-··-····-······-··-··-325.00
Total revenue receipts·························-······-······· 266,265.16
Refunds of expense (see dis~ursemen~) ......................_.... 11,947.41
Per capita for George Washmgton NatI.onal Memorial 31,622.85
Initiates' contributions to George Washington
National Memorial-······--··-······-··-······-·--·-··········· 9,923.00
Payments from Sotoyome Lodge No. 123..........•••.·-··-··· 2,650.00
Public liability insurance for Lodges..·-······-··················· 15,784.33
147.38
Accounts receivable collected ···-··-··-······-··-······-··-··-··
For Memorial Temple Fund:
Per capita 1953 annual returns
(Schedule 2) ·······················-··················.$210,819.00
Initiates' contributions ·······················-··· 32,609.00
Sale of Centennial books..·-··············-·····
155.00 243,583.00

.

581,923.13

Total cash received by Grand Secretary..........
Received by the Grand Treasurer
739.25
Bank interest ···-··-··········-··-··-·---··-·-···-·-··-··--··-······· 5,755.09
Bond interest ---·-·-··-·-······-··-··-··-··-··-·····-·-··-··-··· 21,707.98
Dividend.a ···-·-·-·-··-··-·-······-··-··········---··-·---··-··-··· 18,641.68
Profit on securities sold...---···········-·····---······-·-··-··-·-

Total common stock·····-····-··························-··-························· 579,027.67

Total revenue receipts ···-······-··········-····-··-······· 46,844.00
Cost of securities sold ·--··-··········-·-··-··-··-············-··-·- 219,439.14

Total stock -·-··-··-···-·················-··-··················-························· 614,929.28

Total cash received by Grand Treasurer..........

Total Securities (in custody of Grand Treasurer) ..................................$782,844.78

266,283.14

1,028,169.01
Total to account for.•·-··-··-··-··-··------Disbursements
179,840.79
By Grand Secretary ··--···········-··-····--··-···
757,912.50 937,753.29
By Grand Treasurer ···-··-··-······-··-··-··-·····

Cash Balance, July 31, 1954:
Grand Secretary's bank accounts ....... .
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts ···-···

20,500.00
69,915.72

$ 90,415.72

-

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORN IA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

~~~-Disbursedby~~~­

Grand
Treasure r

Grand
Secretary

Total
Disburse ments
Refunded through collections:
Supplies purchase d for resale................$ 17,169.54 $ 12,865.03 $ 30,034.57
Refund to Lodges of prior years dues... .
336.40
336.40
Total refundab le -·----··- ··--···
Administ rative and office:
Salaries ···-··-··············-······-·······················
Rent ···---- -·-·--- ·---··· ·-Audit ···-··········-······-··············-··-··········-···
Grand Treasure r -----··· ·-·-···- ··Posta~e and express ···········-··-··-····-··-···
Telep one and telegraph -·--··--·· -···
Bonds, supplies and sundry.................
.. .
Social security and unemplo yment taxes
Investme nt counsel ·······-··--··············-···

30,370.97

9.00

40,522.50
6,000.00
1,300.00
981.91
2,191.93
1,452.59
1,508.52
702.50

900.00

Total administr ative and office
General expense:
Annual communi cation ···-··-··-··· ···-··· 9,714.62
Conferen ces ···················-···························
Grand Lodge officers' travel ·······--··-· ·
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler............
400.00
Grand Master's travel expense...... ·-······· 7,000.00
Grand Master's miscellan eous expense 1,750.00
Investme nt counsel for Lodges.............. 4,000.00
Lodge insurance ·····-········--····-··············· 5,000.00
Portrait ot. Grand Master....·-···················
P91 of members...·-···-··--························· 27,137.38
6,586.11
Printing ···--··--···· ···--··--···· -············· ·-···
Ritualisti c expense:
Grand Lecturer -···········-···-····--····-···
Inspector s' aprons
and stationer y......
Travel expense ·····-····-·························
Grand Master's relief fund ...·-·····-·······Retireme nt pay ·····························-···········
Veterans ' buttons ·····-··-··- ···-·--·· -·
Miscellaneous:
Grand Master's presenL ·--··-·-··- ···
Sundries ·····-··················-··-·······--··-···
Total general expense....·-·························
Appropri ations:
Activities Committee·····-····-·············-····$
56.10
Board of Control..........-···········-·············
Charters Committ ee ··············-····-········-·
Columbia Temple ···················-·················
Constitut ion Month -·-·-··-··-· ····-····-···
Correspo ndence Committee···············-··· 2,057.40
De Molay Committ ee..·-······-··-· ·-··-···Employm ent Bureau ···-····-··················· 16,220.00
Endowm ent Board··· ·····--··-- ·-·-··-- 6,315.78

40,522.50
6,000.00
1,300.00
981.91
2,200.93
1,452.59
1,508.52
702.50
900.00
55,568.95

5,268.50
3,357.80
5,803.20

1,125.00
13.44
13,140.41

14,983.12
3,357.80
5,803.30
400.00
7,000.00
1,750.00
4,000.00
5,000.00
1,125.00
27,150.82
19,726.52

600.00
1,454.44
11,135.10
595.00
900.00
1,997.84

600.00
1,454.44
11,135.10
595.00
900.00
1,997.84

500.00
1,167.69

500.00
1,167.69
$108,646.53

4,281.22
1,496.91
721.11
1,388.59
323.75
3,442.60
200.84
3,884.60

4-,337.32
1,496.91
721.11
1,388.59
323.75
5,500.00
200.84
16,220.00
10,200.38

History Committ ee ·····-··--····-······--·····Hyam Portrait ·····-··················-···············Informat ion Committ ee ···········-······-·····
Lodge Finance Committ ee....·-···-··········
Public School Week.···· -··--·--··-· ·-··-···
Publicati ons Committ ee ..........................
Sojourne rs' Committ ee ·······················-···
Universit y Clubhous es ·····-····················· 40,075.00
Maricopa Building Association. ............
. 10,000.00
Tehachap i Temple Association......·-····· 5,000.00
Western Star Lodge No. 2..............·-·······
Memoria l Temple Committ ee...--······-··· 16,064.53

307

37.20
500.00
28.52
1,443.38
3,477.76
2,087.63
93.18

132.64
25,730.53

37.20
500.00
28.52
1,443.38
3,477.76
2,087.63
93.18
40,075.00
10,000.00
5,000.00
132.64
41,759.06

Total appropria tion ·-··-··-····-·············

145,059.27

Total disbursed for expenses..............

339,645.72

Expenses refunded (see receipts):
Masonic Homes salaries............................
Activities Committ ee ·····························-·
Annual Commun ication ·············-·····-····
Conferen ce expense ·····························-···
Correspo ndence Committ ee .................
...
Grand Lodge Officers' expense..............
Postage ........................................................
Printing ···································-····-··-·-···
Public School Week. .............................- ..
Ritual Committ ee traveL.· --···-··-·· ·Veterans ' buttons ......................................
Miscellaneous ··--··-·--··-··-···-·-··-·····-···

9,000.00
580.69
448.87
352.31
129.05
198.11
260.45
436.16
440.61
78.23
12.00
10.93

9,000.00
580.69
448.87
352.31
129.05
198.11
260.45
436.16
440.61
78.23
12.00
10.93
$ 11,947.41

Total expenses refunded ................·-···

Advances to be refunded :
Public liability insurance.. ·-··-······-·······* 12,389.96 $ 3,187.12 $ 15,577.08
425.00
425.00
T. W. A. deposit .-----··-- -····--·-· ·Total advances to be refunded............
George Washingt on National Memoria l:
Initiates' contribut ions ............................ 10,056.00
Per capita ·················-····-··························· 31,622.85
Refunds to Lodges...·-·-·-··-··········--······
Californi a Masonic Memoria
l Temple:
Current year's collections....·-········-······· 243,583.00
Centenni al Celebrati on Fund....·-··········· 5,822.93
Cash in banks, July 31, 1953..·-··-----· 233,146.94
Stocks and bonds purchased........................ 45,835.36

16,002.08

91.00

10,056.00
31,622.85
91.00
243,583.00
5,822.93
233,146.94
45,835.36

Total disbursem ents ···························---·$757,912.50 $179,840.79 $937,753.29

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Schedule 2
Statement of Grand Lodge Per Capita Dues Collected
From 1953 Annual Returns
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1954
Degrees Conferred:
Number
Per Capita Amount
Initiated ·····························-··-······-····-····· 10,003
Passed ···--····-··········-··-····-···-··--···-······ 9,311
Raised ···-·················-············-······-··········· 9,179
Total ·····-··············-·---~·-············-··-······· 28,493
Master Masons:
Membership ·····-····-··--··············-············· 213,639
Deduct dues remitted..·--·-····-····-····-··· 2,820

@

Total dues paying members..·-······-··· 210,819

@

$1.00 $ 28,493.00

$2.15

Total Grand Lodges dues
as per annual returns of 1953..........

above..-------··---··--·-------·-

14,983.12
3,357.80
5,803.20
400.00
7,000.00

875.00
699.18
273.48

600.00
1,454.44
11,135.10
595.00
900.00
1,997.84
1,667.69

454.00
1,135.10
1,405.00
2.16
332.31

$481,753.85

Appropriations:
337.32
$
Activities Committee .....- ..- ...$ 4,000.00 $ 4,337.32
496.91
1,496.91
Board of Control....-····-········· 1,000.00
278.89
721.11 $
Charters Committee ................ 1,000.00
611.41
1,388.59
Columbia Temple ·······-····--··· 2,000.00
176.25
323.75
500.00
Constitution Month ................
2,500.00
5,500.00
Correspondence Committee .. 3,000.00
549.16
200.84
750.00
De Molay Committee..............
Employment Bureaus ·······-··· 16,220.00 16,220.00
1,200.38
Endowment Board .................. 9,000.00 10,200.38
62.80
37.20
100.00
History Committee ···-····-·······
500.00
500.00
Hyam Portrait ···-·······-·······-···
221.48
28.52
250.00
Inormation Committee ·-·······
6.62
1,443.38
Lodge Finance Committee.... 1,450.00
22.24
3,477.76
Public School Week..·-··-····· 3,500.00
1,200.00
Ross Digest ................................ 1,200.00
6.82
93.18
100.00
Sojourners' Committee ..........
587.63
2,087.63
Publications Committee ........ 1,500.00
University Clubhouses .......... 40,075.00 40,075.00
Maricopa Building
10,000.00
10,000.00
Association ····-····-···-···-··-···
Tehachapi Temple
5,000.00
5,000.00
Association ·················-···-····
132.64
132.64
Western Star Lodge No. 2.....•
41,795.06
41,795.06
Memorial Temple Committee

$481, 753.85

Administrative and office: APPropriation Expended
Under
377.50
Salaries ···--·-····-··········-·······' 40,900.00 $ 40,522.50 $
Rent ·····-··----····-··-······· 6,000.00
6,000.00
Audit ···--··-··-····-··--····· 1,300.00
1,300.00
618.09
Grand Treasurer ···-······-········· 1,600.00
981.91
Postage and express................ 2,500.00
2,200.93
299.07
Telephone and telegraph........ 1,500.00
1,452.59
47.41
Bonds, supplies and sundry.... 2,200.00
1,508.52
691.48
Social security and
unemployment taxes .......... 1,000.00
702.50
297.50
Investment counsel ................
900.00
900.00
55,568.95

20,000.00

Ritualistic expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer ·····-········-···
Inspectors' aprons and
stationery ·····-····-············· 1,000.00
Travel expense .................... 10,000.00
Grand Master's relief fund. ... 2,000.00
900.00
Retirement pay ........................
Veterans' buttons .................... 2,000.00
Miscellaneous ···-············-······· 2,000.00

4,000.00
5,000.00
1,125.00
27,150.82
19,726.52

Total general expense........$107,000.00 $108,646.53 $ 3,587.13 $ 5,233.66

Schedule 3
Comparison of Budget and Expenditurea
Year 1953-54

Total administrative
and office ···-····················· 57,900.00
General expense:
Annual Communication ···-··· 14,000.00
Conferences ............................. . 1,500.00
Grand Lodge Officers' travel 5,000.00
Grand Organist and
400.00
Grand Tiler ·····-····-····-·······
Grand Master's travel
expense ····-··--················-··· 7,000.00

Printing ···········-····-···················

1,750.00

453,260.85

Disposition of Revenue
Grand Lodge ···-····-··--····-···············-··········-··--············-$231,312.00
George Washington National Memorial Fund,
210,819 members @ 15c...----···-··--··---- 31,622.85
California Masonic Memorial Temple,
210,819 members @ $1.00·--····-····-·-··-········--····-··· 210,819.00

Total as

Grand Master's miscellaneous expense .................. 1,750.00
Investment counsel for
Lodges ···············--····-··········· 4,000.00
Lodge insurance ...................... 5,000.00
Portrait of Grand Master........ 2,000.00
Pay of members..·-··················· 27,850.00

309

Over

----

Total appropriations .......... 86,145.00 145,059.27

3,135.67

----

62,049.94

Totals .................................. 251,045.00 $309,274.75 $ 9,053.85 $ 67,283.60
Authorized by Grand Master•.. 67,283.60

2,331.05

$

983.12
1,857.80
803.20

Total authorizations .................... 318,328.60
Total expenditures···············-····· 309,274.75
Unexpended appropriations ....$ 9,053.85
•Note: Items not covered by budget, and expenditures in excess of amount
in budget, were not paid until approved by the Grand Master.

310

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Schedule 4

Exhibit C
Grand Treasure r's
Statemen t of Cash Receipts and Disburse ments
August l, 1953 to July 31. 1954
Cash Balance, August l, UJS3....-······-·--·· ·············
Receipts
---$
From the Grand Secretar y.
·······-···
-··-········-·
·-···-····-··dividends
and
Interest
Sale of securities.........------- -··-··-· ·--·--

Statemen t of Masonic Homes Per Capita
And $25 Contribu tions Received
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1954
$

Total disbursem ents ···········-··········-·······-··········
Cash Balance, July 31, 1954:
American Trust Company......................................
Anglo Californi a National Bank.....................___ _
Crocker First National Bank................................
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Company....

159,462.74

Per Capita Dues-19 53 Annual Returns:
213,639
Members hip ···········-· ···-·-·--·-· ·-·-···Dedud dues remitted......................·-··· 2,820

848,206.27

Total dues paying members............ 210,819
$25.00 Homes Contribu tions:
Amount due per 1953 annual returns:
Initiation s ···--··-· ---10,0 03
Affiliations ···-··-··- -·-··-·- 932
66
E. A. and F. C·----· -·-···

581,923.13
28,202.32
238,080.82

Total receipts ---··-··-··-·································
Total to account for____ _____
Disburse ments
Reimburs ing Grand Secretary 's operating fund ..
Grand Treasure r's disbursem ents (Exhibit B) ....

311

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1,007,669.0l

937,753.29
50.00
53,723.62
8,404.82
7,737.28 $

69,915.72

Exhibit D
Grand Secretary 's Resume of Cash Received
August l. 1953 to July 31. 1954

For Granq Lodge and Memoria l Temple:
$
Per capita dues, etc. (Exhibit B>---····-··----··-·F or the Masonic Homes (Schedul e 4):
Per capita dues..·-··-····-······-··-··-···-·····-·····-···$ 1158,114.25
$215.00 contributiOll8 ···-····--- -··-··-··-· ·-··-····- · 270,950.00
For the Endowm ent Fund:
Donation s and bequests........·--····-··-· ·····-··-···

@ 25.00

$275,025.00

Deduct payments received in advance of
annual returns and reported in 1953
proceedin gs ·····-··-··--·--··-····--··-··-$190,325.00
Add U.D. Lodges transferr ed to
375.00
1953 returns ···-····-·-··-····-····-··········-

190,700.00

Total .....-····-···-·- ·-····-.....11,001

179,840.79
757,912.50

581,923.13
429,064.25
399,060.92

Total cash received and transferr ed to Grand Treasure r........$ 1,410,048.30

@ 75c

Balance due on 1953 returns....·-···-·---·· -·
Add payments received in advance of
1954 returns ···························-····-··-··-Total contribut ions received during
the yeu 1953-54..........................·-·····
Total cash received by the Grand Secretary
and turned over to the
Treesure r of the Homes....·-··············-···

$158,114.25

84,325.00
186,625.00
2'10,950.00

$429,064.25

312

313

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

InTestments $1.504.212.32
The bonds, stocks and investments included under this heading are
listed in detail on Schedule 1. This list include all securities of the Trust
and Special Purpose funds. However, the Trust Funds securities are carried
in separate portfolios and separate bank accounts are maintained in order
to a~ount for each trust fund in accordance with its agreement.
The investment account shows an increase of $138,318.06 over last year.
Bonds and stocks are listed at cost; donated securities are listed at market
value when received, if known, otherwise at nominal value of $1.00. Life
insurance policies are recorded at the amount due at the death of the insured if determinable and the premiums are fully paid up, otherwise at a
value of $1.00.
The notes and contracts receivable were received from the sales of
donated property and are listed at the unpaid balance at July 31, 1954. ·
Monthly payments of principal and interest have been received.
All bonds, stocks and notes are held by the Anglo California National
Bank and were verified by a certified list from the bank. The life insurance
policies and real estate deeds are held in the office of the Grand Secretary
and were inspected by us.

September 30, 1954
Maaonic Homes of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and records of the MASONIC
HOMES OF CALIFORNIA for the year ended July 31' 1954 and submit
'
herewith the following statements:
Exhibit A: Balance Sheet, July 31, 1954.
Schedule 1: Statement of Securities owned, July 31, 1954.
Schedule 2: Statement of Funds held in Trust.
Schedule 3: Statement of Funds held for Special Purposes.
Exhibit B.: Statement of Revenue and Expense for the Fiscal Year ended
July 31, 1954.
Exhibit C: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit D: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina.
Exhibit E: Detailed Operating Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit F: Detailed Operating Expense-Covina

Total trust funds :.._---··-·-·-··---·-···-··-·····-······· ············- 17,019.01

Properties $2.988,918.12
The value of the properties as shown is the cost of the homes at Decoto
and Covina. During the current year $1,551.85 was paid for sound-proofing
the hospital and $1,458.48 for equipment at Decoto; and $3,480.92 for installation of a dumb-waiter and $6,940.95 for equipment at Covina. All of
these costs were expended from the Reserve for Additions and Replacements.
Funds Held in Trust $439,609.32
With the exception of the Residents' Deposits of $16,248.73, which are
personal money of the Decoto residents and the children at Covina, these
trust funds were created by donation or by bequest to the Homes for a
particular purpose. The activities of each fund during the current year are
shown on Schedule 2. Separate savings accounts are kept for each fund and
the securities are carried in separate portfolios.
The income due on the investments was received and deposited in the
proper .fund. ,Annuity payments were made as required by the contract
carried by the Wadleigh Endowment Fund. Payments from the other trust
funds were in accordance with the agreements. The Wadleigh Endowment
Fund is to be transferred to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund after the
death of the annuitants.
Funds Held for Special Purposes Sl.020.512.61
These funds were created by the Board of Trustees to receive donations
and bequests which are to be used for purposes other than the direct operating expenses of the Homes. The activities of these funds during the current
year are shown on Schedule 3.
Total Funds of the Homes $5.049.504.51
A summary of all .funds of the Masonic Homes as at July 31, 1954 is
.
shown below:
3,624,163.68
Fund
Homes General
C. N. Flint Trust Fund ·······-·····-··--··-·-······-··-·····---· ·-····--· 332,882.33
20,000.00
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund ···-·······
51,020.89
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund ···-··-··················-···········
925.00
Leonard Gross Memorial Fund ···············-······-·····-·······-··-········
Covina Special Fund ···-··········-······-······-······-·-··--·-·-··-··········· 120,166.33
39,905.17
Decoto Special Fund ···········-······-··---··-··-··-·····-··········-··-·······
11, 704.61
Entertainment Fund ····-·-··-··----·-·--··-··---··-······-··- ······--·47,700.00
Funeral Fund·······························-······-·-···-·····-·········-········-·······
Reserve for Additions and Replacements ···········-················-····· 552,804.89
Unappropriated Reserve ···-······-··-······-··-······-··-········-··············· 248,231.61

Total cash on hand and in banks ···-··-······-··-··········-······-$559,929.08

Total -----------------1$,~5~,0~4~9,~50~4~.5~1

Comments
Cuh $559.929.03
All recorded receipts were properly accounted for and deposited in the
proper funds bank accounts. The bank balances were verified by correspondence 'Yith th~ depositaries. The total cash as shown on the Balance
Sheet, Exhibit A, JS made up of the following accounts:
Treasurer's accounts:
AmWllserican Trust Company, commercial ----··-··--·-··-·-' 33,283.27
e Far~o Bi;tnk & . Union Trust Company, commercial .... 53,290.41
~a!fco ~~~1a Nati~nal Bank, savings ···········-··················-··· 344,796.32
p ifi o N . er1ca, savings -------·-··-··-·-··-······-·-······ -··· 10,488.83
ational Bank, savings ---·--·----·-··--··-··· 50,000.00
ac tine g accounts:
Opera
Decoto:
L~~o Bank & U~ion Trust Company···-··-······-······· 12,350.17
3,320.38
CISCO Bank, Niles ···-··-·····-··-··-······-··-······-···········
.
Covino:

~~~~la~~a~:al Bank·--··-··--·-··-··---··············-·· ·····

Revolving funds:

gecc;>to - - - - - -

k ···-··-·····-··-··-··-··-··----······-··-··- ···

-----------··-··-··-·-··-····--· ··

···-···
De~~a iiitraii&it"fii>Iii..i:>~"OiOeifc-·-:-··-·-··-··-··-·-···
ovma ···-··········-···············

18,451.40
12,575.74
1,000.00
1•500·00
1,853.50

Total general fund cash ···--··---··----~---···--··-·-··-··-··-··· 542,910.02
Trust Funds-Treasurer's accounts:
Anglo California National Bank·
.
C. N. Flint Trust Fund
···-·-·-··········-··-······-··--······-··-·· ····· 3,151.19
Schol hi Fun
250.00
Wadl:-Sh ~do~eiit-~--···------·-··-------------···········
d ---·-··-··-··-·-···-··-··--··-··-··· 3,407.37
i.g
Trust Fund&:-Superintendents' accounts:
5,336.99
4,873.46

~~~ti~~:t~~~~~Ie'i'::~~~--=::::::::::::::::::

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

315

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Revenue and Expense
The 1953 annual returns from the Lodges were audited and the $25.00
contributions due thereon, plus the contributions received up to July 31, 1954,
agree with the amount turned over to the Grand Treasurer by the Grand
Secretary. The per capita on 210,819 members at 75c, in amount, $158,114.25,
was also received by the Grand Treasurer from the Grand Secretary. The
Endowment Fund income received by the Homes is in agreement with the
Endowment Fund audit report. All interest and dividends due on the investments were received. The records of the contributions through Lodges
were examined and the amounts appear to be all that can be collected.
The disbursements were made by checks and supported by proper
vouchers.
The operations of the Masonic Homes resulted in an excess of revenue
over expense amounting to $104,990.95 as shown by Exhibit B.
Accountant's Opinion
.
In my opinion, the accompanying balance sheet and statement of revenue
and expense present fairly the financial position of the Masonic Homes of
California at July 31, 1954 and the results of its operations for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1954, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding years.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER A. PARKER
Certified Public Accountant

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Exhibit A
Balance Sheet July 31, 1954
Cash on Hand and in Banks ···············-··············-···
Accounts Receivable:
Employees, children and others ···········-···········
InBveosntmdsents: (Sch~dule 1~-------·-·--··--··-'

$

559,929.03
570.59

606,462.27
814,318.13
Stocks ···-······-······-:··~·······-··-··········-······--·-······-···
8,819.08
Life insurance policies ·:·-··-··-··--··--···-··-···
1 757 84
7
Notes and contracts receivable............................
• ·
2,85
00
Real Estate ·······················-························-············· - - -5.Properties: (at cost-no d~reciation taken)
Land buildings and equ~pment-Dec~to ........ 2,322,499.82
Lan~ buildings and eqwpment-Covma ........
664,418.30

2,986,918.12

Inventories:
20 602 07
Stores and supplies-Decoto ···················-···········
'
·
6•25 1.69
Stores and supplies-Covina···········-··············-···
Livestock-Covina ···········-··················-················· _ _9_,_85_2_.68
_

36,706.44

Total assets ..........................................................
Liabilities, Reserves and Capital:
Accountants payable···················-·····-·····················
Funds held in trust (Schedule 2) ........................... .
Funds reserved for special purposes (Schedule 3)
Total liabilities and reserves ·······················-···

1,504,212.32

$ 5,088,336.50
$

4,050.89
439,609.32
1,020,512.61
1,464,172.82

Capital:
.
* 3 505 740 53
Balance, August 1, 1953 --··-·--:---:·_...., , • ·
Add: Assets purchased from special funds.
155185
Building improvements at Decoto ................
1'458:48
New fixtures at Decoto ···-··:······························
• 80 92
3' 4 ·
Building equipment at Covma ···-··········-·······
New fixtures at Covina......................................
6,940. 95
Excess of revenue over expenses for ~~ fiscal year ended July 31, 1954 (Exh1b1t B)
104,990.95
Balance, July 31, 1954 ···························-·······-··········

3,624,163.68

Total liabilities, reserves and capital ....

$ 5,088,336.50

316

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Schedu le 1
Statem ent of Securit iea Owned July 31, 1954
Book Value
Bonds:
2,986.50
··-····
·······-··-·-·-··1952
3%,
Co.,
al
$ 3,000 Dow Chemic
4,450.00
1956 ···-··-··5,000 810 South Spring Buildin g Co., 5%,
11,000 Interna tional Minera l & Chemic al Corp.,
11,230.25
······
3.65%, 1977 ···-·-·- -··-··-· ·--··--- ··--·--5,100.0 0-S
···-······-·········
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970, 4%,
1955 ......
1.00
1,000 Paradis e Valley Irrigati on District
1.00
1,000 Paradis e Valley Irrigati on District , 4%, 1956 •.....
2,918.92
3,000 Sinclai r Oil Corp., 31/4 %, 1983 ···-··········-··-············
4,270.00 -S
4,000 Southe rn Califor nia Gas Co., 3~ %, 1970 ···········5,150.0 0-S
5,000 Southe rn Countie s Gas Co., 3%, 1971 ···············-·····
3,072.00
3,000 Standa rd Oil Co. of Indiana , 31i9 % , 1982 ···-········
124,468 .95-iFT
167,675 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series F, 1956 ···-········ ···········
17,464.0 0-FT
···········
·······-····
1957
F,
series
Bonds,
s
23,600 U.S. Saving
1,628.0 0-FT
2,200 U. S. Saving s Bonds, series F, 1959 ....................... .
34,457 .40-FT
Increas ed redemp tion value of F bonds ···-······-··
···-·····10,100.00
10,100 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1955
10,000.0 0-FT
10,000 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1955 .............
5,000.0 0-S
5,000 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1955 ..........
1,600.00
1956 ·······-···
1,600 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 2¥.! %, 1957
........... .
100,000.00
100,000 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 21,2%,
60,900 .00-FT
60,900 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1957 .............
7,500.0 0-FT
7,500 U. S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 2¥.! %, 1958 ..........
103,405.00
103,500 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1959 .•..........
10,000 .00-P
10,000 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 2¥.! %, 1959 ···-·······
15,300.00
15,300 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1960 .............
10,000 .00-W
10,000 U.S. Saving s Bonds, series G, 2¥.!%, 1960 ..........
10,000.0 0-P
10,000 U. S. Treasu ry Bonds, 21,2 %, 1964-69 ···-··--·· --··
9,157.5 0-FT
9,000 U.S. Treasu ry Bonds, 21,2%, 1965-70 ···-·············--·
10,372 .03-S
10,500 U.S. Treasu ry Bonds, 2¥.!%, 1965-70 ···-··-············
5,000.0 0-W
5,000 U.S. Treasu ry Bonds, 21,2%, 1965-70 ·······-······-··5,000.0 0-S
5,000 U.S. Treasu ry Bonds, 2¥.!%, 1965 ···-······-·············
1,000.00
1,000 U.S. Treasu ry Bonds, 21,2%, 1967-72 -·-··-··- ··-··15,153.20
······-·····
·············
1965
%,
31,2
Corp.,
Steel
ng
Wheeli
15,000
······
Total bonds ···-··-··- ···-·---- ······---· ·····-··-· ·····-····..........
Less reserve for amortiz ation of bond premiu m
Net book value·· ·-··-········-········-··········-······-············

317

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

606,685. 75
223.48

---606,462.48

Book Value
Stocks:
Shares of Preferr ed:
··-'
23,523.88
225 Americ an Cyanam id Co., 3% 3---·- ··--···
600.00
10 Armou r & Co., $6.00.......................... ............. .............
7,528.60
·---·75 Canada Dry Ginger ale, 4~3--··-··-·
7,246.68
75 Food Machin ery & Chemic al Corp., 3~ % .... _ .....
10,780.90
200 Kaiser Alumin um & Chemic al Corp., 5% .............
8,035.60
100 Liquid Carbon ic Co., 3¥.a 3--·· -··--- ··-··· ·
2,512.70
25 Mathie son Chemic al Corp., 4.25% ....·-··-····- ········
4,951.06
····-···
50 Merck & Co., Inc., $4.00..........·-························
5,890.05
75 McCro ry Stores Corp., 31,2 %.· ---·- ·-·4,869.75
139 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 15%3 .-··--· ··-·5,696.25
177 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 69' ..·--··-···· ··---····- ····
14,000.0 0-S
527 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 5% ..·-····-······-···············
7,644.69
300 Philade lphia Electric Co., f 1.00...·-····-··- -··--····· ··
0
21,091.4
-··
·-··-··
-----·
f.33
Stores,
y
Safewa
200

41 Southe rn Califor nia Edison Co., 4.329' ....·--···-···
125 Southe rn Califor nia Edison Co., 4.32%..................
22 United Aircraf t Corp., 5%.........................................
125 United Air Lines, Inc., 4 1 h 3 - - - - · - -· 100 United States Plywoo d Corp., 3% "·····-·· ··-·---·
Total preferr ed···-- ·-···-··- ···-·-··- ··-···--· ··

653.26
1,071.3 9-S
2,716.20
11,632.41
8,820.68

--- -149,265.50
----

Shares of Commo n:
250 Air Reduct ion
100 Alexan der & Baldwi n, Ltd.-···--·-···--··············-···
75 Allied Chemic al & Dye Corp..·--··---~----··--125 Americ an Cyanam id Corp•......................................•
50 Americ an Teleph one & Telegra ph Co......... ·--··-··
125 Americ an Tobacc o Co.......................................·-······
534 Americ an Trust Co•....·-····-· ··-··--· ···-··-· •·--Co.....·-·-·-.. .:.----· ·-----· ··-266 Americ an Trust
112 Amigos Oil Co............................................................. .
250 Anglo Califor nia Nationa l Bank..·-····-·---··-·····
250 Atlanti c Refinin g Co·-··· ····---·· ··-··-·-· ·-··-··-· ··
42 Bank of Amerie a......·-····-················-····-··················
100 Banker s Trust Co•..·--···-· ·-·---·· ··--··-· ·-·····
150 Beatric e Foods Co...·-······-·· ·-·-···-··- ····-······ -·········
200 Beatric e Foods Co-···-··-··-··---·····························
1,309 Built-in Fixture Co. ···-··-----··········-·····················
40 Castle & Cook, Ltd.....·-········- ·--···-··· ··········· ·-······
533 Centra l Hudson Gas & Electric Corp·-·--··-· ···········
267 Centra l & Southw est Corp...·-······-········-······
..~·-······-··········
125 Chase Nation al Bank..........................
110 Chemic al Bank & Trust Co•......................................
120 Clevela nd Electric filumin ating Co........................
150 Columb ian Carbon Co..·---- -··-· ·---· ·275 Commo nwealth Edison CG..-- -··--···· ····-···· ···
150 Consol idated Edison Co. of New York, Inc...........
200 Consol idated Edison Co. of New York, Inc...........
50 Contin ental Oil Co....·-··········································-····
100 Corn Exchan ge Bank & Trust Co,_,..·······-··············
125 Corn Produc ts Refinin g Co••.·-··--·· ··--···· -··--·
·····-···--·· ···
30 Covina Irrigati ng Co·-········-·············-·········--·- 125 Dayton Power & Light Co..- .
52 642 Death Valley Talc Co ................................................ .
'142 Delawa re Power & Light
250 Detroit Edison Co...·--··-···· ·-········· ·-···-····- ··-··-····
250 Duques ne Light Co...·-········· ·-····-··· -····-··-· ·-··-···
1 Dunsm uir Masoni c Temple Assn...·--·-···· -·········
116 East:Inan Kodak Co•............·-·····-·············-········-····-··-- ·--··- -··1 200 Ewa Plantat ion Co.....·-····- Corp
.·--··- -·' 25 Food Machin ery & Chemic al
200 Food Machin ery & Chemic al Corp....·-··-··············
180 Genera l Electric Co...·-······-- ··-··-···· ·----··- -···-··
285 Genera l Public Utilitie s Corp...·--··--·· ·-···-'··- ····
40 Glendo ra Water Co.....·-····-···-··--······,·--··-··-·····
82 Gulf Oil Corp•... ·-··--· -··--- ----·· -··-··· -·········-~130 Hawaii an Electric Co•.•·-··-··- ···.. -·············--····100 Hercul es Powde r Co..........·-··-···- -···-···- ········
128 Home Insuran ce Co. of New York..·--····-··-··
150 Illinois Power Co.·- -··--- ---··· ··--··· --·
1,430 Imperi al Oil, Ltd.·-- ········-- ···-··-··· --···················
204 Kansas City Power & Light Co...·--··-··· ·-···-··· -

Ce---------··-·----·····-

Co.---·-··--·---

7,536.38
3,700.00
5,832.95
6,094.51
7,935.65
8,442.76
14,102.44
7,479.9 5-FT
1.00
8,671.15
8,195.08
1,323.00
4,550.00
7,097.88
7,810.3 6-FT
1.00
960.00
5,698.45
4,497.81
4,609.38
4,350.00
5,884.49
7,044.85
8,619.15
4,880.88
8,875.6 0-FT
3,148.90
6,469.37
8,362.28
32.50
4,648.19
1.00
3,444.16
5,655.90
6,951.66
1.00
4,640.59
20,400.00
1,087.80
7,584.2 2-FT
3,604.91
5,684.50
1,000.00
4,032.98
3,587.50
6,779.03
4,408.97
5,213.28
24,347.92
5,601.77

318

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

125 Kennecott Copper Co............;···-·······························
125 Koppers Co., Inc.................·-······································
7,160 Kutz Canyon Oil & Gas Co.................•.....................
300 Lone Star Gas Co............·-··-····-···········-··-···········175 Manufacturers Trust Co..•.....·-·································
6 Masonic Hall Assn. of Alameda-·-···-·····················
16 Masonic Temple Assn. of Fruitvale........................
2 Masonic Temple Association of Stockton............. .
285 Middle South Utilities, Inc.....·-································
350 Minnesota Power & Light Co.•.•.·-··········-····-·········
75 Monsanto Chemical Co.•.·-··-····-··-·········--········450 Montana Power
125 Montgomery Ward & Co·-·-··--·-·········-····-·-··
125 McKesson & Robbins ................................................ .
464 New England Electric System. ..•....- .•..........•..........
247 New York State Electric & Gas Co.........................
302 Niagara Mohawk Power Co...............·--····-············
605 Northern States Power Co...·--················-··-····-··
201 Ohio Edison Co--·--·-··-··---··-······-··-·-··-···
100 Ohio Oil Co .......................................................·-·········
25 Owens Illinois Glass Co.·------··--·-····-··-···
378 Pacific Gas & Electric Co...·-·····-····-·---··-···········
250 Parke, Davis & Co...·-·-··--·--···-·····-··-··-·········
125 Chas. Pfizer & Co., Inc........·--··································
125 Philip Morris & Co., Ltd•....·-····-······························
200 Phillips Petroleum Co.......................·-····-·-·············
248 Public Service Co. of Indiana.................................. .
520 Public Service Electric & Gas Co........................... .
125 Public Service Electric & Gas Co-····-·················-·
131 Remington Rand, Inc•...·-··-·····-··········-················525 Remington Rand, Inc...........................·-···················
1,629 River Farms of California.....- ..- ..·-·························
134 Rochester Gas & Electric Corp.....·-·---······--····110 St. Joseph Lead Co•..·-·····--·-···-··--·---······250 St. Regis Paper Co·-·--····-····-··············-······-····-····
5 lh San Dimas Co.-·-··--····-·---·······-···--············-·····
16 San Francisco Remedial Loan Assn., Ltd..............
400 Security First National Bank of Los Angeles.......
102 Shell Oil Co....................- ............................................
150 Southern California Edison Co................................
253 Southern Realty Co.--·-··--····-··---····-········
250 Standard Brands, Inc•....·-····-····-··-·-···-······-·-·
202 Standard Oil Co. of California..........._....................
250 Sterling Drug Co•..·-······-·····-············-······-··-·········
50 Texas Gulf Sulphur Co•....•·-··---·······-···--·-··626 Transamerica Corp. ··········-·····-··--····-················-··
500 Transamerica Corp....................................................
250 Union Electric Co. of Missouri.......... _..........•.........
275 Union Oil Co. of California..................................... .
248 United Gas Corp ......................................................... .
250 United Shoe Machinery Corp•..·-········--··--····-···
175 Utah Power & Light Co.............................................
l,~gg ;~ialua.Agricul~ural Co .......................................... .
ISconsm Electric Power Co................•..•.·-····-·····
65 F. W. Woolworth Co.........·-·················-·········-·········
60 F. W. Woolworth Co.......·-·····-·········-··--··-·····--·

Co·---·-·--··-·--···-··-··-··-···

319

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

8,606.12
5,591.21
1,432.00
7,202.30
10,357.35
1.00
1.00
1.00
6,983.49
6,025.42
6,807.40
5,387.28
7,717.38
4,588.56
5,846.69
6,025,52
7,113.54
6,295.71
6,078.63
5,456.43
1,825.40
12,038.97
9,749.75
4,156.19
6,529.32
8,148.23-FT
6,440.26
12,929.79
3,399.40-S
2,644.02
9,134.68-FT
48,870.00
5,628.00
5,140.03
4,979.08
1,072.50
1.00
8,850.00-FT
3,500.12
5,127.58
399.00-FT
5,603.87
8,492.70
9,905.95
5,376.20
10,049.95
5,873.25-.FT
5,714.08
10,319.07
5,962.62
10,452.41
5,995.19
10,200.00
6,375.85
2,999.62
2,767.37-S

8,819.08
----Notes and Contracts BeceiTable...•.......•-·--··-···-··-·-···········
71,757.84
-----

Life Insurance Policlell...·-···-··-··-····--·-···---·--········----·--·

Miscellaneous:
7 Letters of Patent.--······-·-················-···-············-··-····--··Real estate, unimproved-18 parcels........·--··-·····--··-··--f
Real estate, improved-9 parcels..·-··-··'-··-··-···-··--····-··Mineral rights--4 parcels......·-······-······-··-··-··········-·-··········
Real estate held for Endowment Fund.................................•.

Nil
18.00
2,708.00
4.00
125.00

Total miscellaneous ............................................

2,855.00

Total Securities ...........- ..--..----···----.............. , 1,504,212.32
NOTE: The above consolidated statement includes securities carried in separate portfolios, as coded, for the following trust funds:
FT-C. N. Flint Trust Fund
P ~eorge M. and Florence Perine Endowment Fund
S -Scholarship Fund
W -Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
Schedule 2
Statement of Funds Held in Trust
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1954
C. N. Flint Trust Fund
Balance, August i, 1953...
·-···-··-····----...$
Add: Dividends and interest from investments................................

332,882.33
11,575.57

Total ···········-······--··-··-·-·-·······-··········-·················-······················
Deduct: Transfer of net yield from investments to
Decoto Special Fund....·-···-·-·-···--···-····-··--···-·-····--·····-·-···-

344,457 .90

Balance, July 31, 1954.....---·------··----·--------··--··--·-..-··-··-·------.$

33!,5!'

Leonard Gross Memorial Fund
Balance, August 1, 1963.·-··----···--·--------.$
Add, contributions·····-··············-·······-········-······-··-·-····--··-··-····-

850.00
75.00

Balance, July 31, 1954.......·--··--········--------··------·-f

d.00

George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund
Balance, August 1, 1953....·-··············-···-····-------··-···----$
Add, interest from investments.......·-·-··-··--·-··-··-····---·····-····

20,000.00
500.00

Total common ···········-··········-·····························

665,052.63

Total ·························································-····-··············-····-····-····-·····
Deduct, transfer of net yield from investments to
Decoto Special Fund.....·-···--··-··---·--------·--··--·····

Total stocks ·--··-··-··················-··-····-··--·········

814,318.13

Balance, July 31, 1954........

11,575.57

20,500.00
500.00

·-··-·---------··-···--···-* ·20,000.00

320

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

321

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Studenb' Loan ud Scholanhlp Fund

Belance, August 1, 1953...------·---

Add:

Dividends and income from investments..........$

Lesa reserve for amortization of bond
premiUIDS ·····························-····-···-·····-·········

2,216.75

•

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

55,671.30

2,198.99

17. 76

57,870.29
6,849.40

Total ·--·--························-··-····-··-····-··-··-·······
Deduct, disbursed
for educational purposes......... .
$

51,020.89

Huriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
Balance, August l, 19521....- ••-----·-·---·--··-····-··-'
Add, interest from investments.
----··-···

19,311.65
445. 72

Balance, July 31, 19M.••-·····-·-··--····-·-···-·--···

----19,757 .37
1,350.00
----Balance, July 31, 19M...-····--··-·-·----···-···--··········-·...$
18,40'1.3'1
Total -··--··-······-····---··--······-··--····-···-····-·····-·····-··--·····--····
Deduct, payments on contracL.------··--·----·-··-···

Residents' Deposits

Decoto residents ---··-··-·---------····-··-··--········.$
Covina children -·····················--··-····-······-··-··················-··-···········

11,375.27
4,873.46

Total ----····-·····------·-····-··-··-·······-·.$

18,248.73

Endowment Fund
Real Estate ···-··-····-··-······-··--···-···-······-··-·········-······················-·$

125.00

Total funds held in trust..·----··-·-··-····--··-·--·--··-··--··-··-·--$ 439,609.32
Note: Separate bank accounts and securities portfolios are maintained for
theae funds.

Schedule 3
Statement of Funds Held for Special PurpOH1
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1954
Coria.a Special Fund
$
Balance, August 1, 1913.---··--·--··-··-·····
Add:
29,600.70
Bequests -··-·-·--····-'
2,573.15
Contributlom --------·---··--··-·
3,048.97
Net income from real estate_._.........-·-··-·

35,222.82

$

131,101.64

Total
Deduct: ·---·----··--·---··-··-····-····-·······
Purchase of Chevrolet station waaon............... .
Purchase of Chevrolet coupe................................
Automobile maintenance ····-·······-··-····-······-·····
Additional charges on construction of pig sty..
Additional picnic ground facilities..................... .
Purchase of special dormitory equipment........
Purchase of IBM typewriter................................. .
Summer camp expense...-·--···--······--·······
Professional services -·········-···-·-··-··-······--···
Sundries ····--····-----·-··-·-·-··-----·
Balance, July 31, l l k - - · - - - -·

1,696.59
2,106.74
227.35
389.39
1,063.35
680.80
676.92
1,828.82
2,208.03
57.32

95,878.82

10,935.31

$

120,166.33

Decoto Special Fund
Balance, August 1, 1963-·-·····--Add:
Bequests .....
-........
,.
$
Contributions ···---··-··········-····················---·
Net income from real estate·--···-··········-··-·Transfer of Flint Trust income--·-····-··-··-·-···
Transfer of Perine Fund income..........................

Total ··-··--····-··-········-······-···-·-·····-·······-···
Deduct:
Purchase of dental equipment..............·-··-···
Purchase of diathermy machine
·
Purchase of X-ray machine...-·----···---·
Extension of loud speaker ~------·-··-·

$
4,642.46
500.00
19.45
11,575.57
500.00

28,072.i3

17,237.48
45,309.61

2,938.11
669.97
1,278.85
517.51

5,404.44

Balance, July 31, 19M.-.•· · - · - - - - - - -

$

39,905.17

Entertainment Fund
Balance, August 1, 1963.•- - · - - · · - · - - Add, contributions ···--···········-······-··-············-·······

$

14,132.91
10,212.80

$

24,345.71

Total -···----····---·--··-····-··-··-··-·-··--Deduct:
Decoto Christmas
··-·
--.$
Decoto entertainment -········-··-··
-···
Covina entertainment········-··---·········--·······

2,093.00
4,376.45
6,171.65

12,641.10

Balance, July 31, 1 9 k . - · · - · · · - - - - ; . . - -

$

11,704.61

Funeral Fund
Balance, August 1, 1853••.••- · · · · · · · · - - · - - · - · - - - - - · - .f
Add, receipts from Unappropriated Reserve........·-····-······-·-·-·:

43,800.00
8,182.84

Total--··-··-·-·---··-··--··-·--··-··-··-Deduct, funeral expen&e..·-···-·-·-----··-··-·--··-··--

51,982.84
4,282.84

Balance, July 31, l8M.-··--············-··-·-··-··-··---·-·---...$

4'1tt'OO.GO

ReserTe for Additions and Replacements
Balance, August 1, 1953_______
Add, bequests ··········-·····-··········-·--·-----·

572,772.81
18,653.35

Total ···-··--·······-·--······-······--·-------Deduct:
Reeiacements and repairs ... _.... ____
t
~uilding improvements-Decoto ···············-··-···
ew fixtures--Decoto ···········-·········-········-·-···-~uilding equipment-Covina ····-·····-·················
ew fixtures-Covina ·················-··--··············-···
Balance, July 31, ISM._.,_ _ _ _ _ _ __

$

591,426.16
25,189.07
1,551.85
1,458.48
3,480.92
6,940.95

38,621.27

$

552,804.89

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Unappropria ted Reserve

$

Balance, August 1, 1953••••·-··--··-·-· ···--·--··

Add:
Profit on sale of, and income from,
property donated to the fund..·--············-·······$
Contribution s by applicants...·--·-··-··-·· ·-···
Pensions ···········-······················-··-··········-··-··-··-···
Deceased residents' deposits..........·-···············-····
Total ···--·-···--···-· ·········-··--···· -····-··-·······Deduct:
Monthly grants to residents............·-····-···········
Transfer to Funeral Fund..........................·-·········

11,480.24
85,028.20
53,435.50
3,024.21

121,671.30

152,968.15
274,639.45

18,225.00
8,182.84

26,407.84

$ 248,231.61
$ 1,020,512.61

Balance, July 31, 1954---········· ········-·-····-···· ··-··-···
Total funds held for special purposes..............
Exhibit B
Statement of Revenue and Expense
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1954
Revenue
$25.00 Homes contributio n-

current year --··-·····-··-·· -·····
Per capita dues from Lodges1953 returns·····-····-····-··-·········Endowment Fund income·--··· ··Contribution s through Lodges:
Decato ---··-·-· ·-··-··$
Covina ···-······-····-··---······-··-···
Income from investments....... _
Profit from sales of securities... _
Sundry income ···--··-·-····-·· ·······
Total revenue ···-·····················
Expense
Operation of Homes:
Decato (Exhibit C) •...•.•.·-·-·······
Covina (Exhibit D) ....·-······-··-···
Outside relief ····-···········-··-······-···
Administrati ve and general:
Taxes-real estate ···--····-·········$
Taxes-payr oll ............................
Insurance ......................................
Refund of $25.00 contribution s
of prior years-net..........·-·····
Social welfare agents:
N orthem district ....................
Southern district ................... .
Secretary's and assistant's
salaries ......................................
Pensions-re tired employees ..
Trustees' expense ......................
Auditing ·················-·····················
Safekeeping of records..............
Telephone and postage..............

$

270,950.00

31,574.60
54,152.26
29,165.83
2,521.39

$
366,999.08
168,903.98
15,630.87
511.60
5,323.77
15,781.44
3,345.00
5,941.40
3,316.86
9,000.00
6,568.80
2,773.89
1,120.00
1,200.00
792.0Z

Total expense -························
Excess of Revenue Over Expense

1,784.04
3,513.18
312.90
1,350.00
494.22
97.34

-----

719,751.34

63,226.46
614,760.39

$

104,990.95

$

379,687.13

Exhibit C
Statement of Direct Operating Expense-De coto
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1954
Operating Expense:
Maintenance --·------- -····-·-··- ··-···$ 145,243.58
102,367.86
Hospital and medieal..--·····-··-····-······-·······
25,225.23
-----··-·-·
.
Farm and garden
10,479.01
Laundry ····--·-··-··--· ·----············ ····---····-···
13,729.04
Heating plant ····-··-······-····-·································
4,624.39
Paint shop ·----··-···-··· ···-··-··-····- ····-······
2,062.88
········
Transportati on ·······-·-··········--················-···
75,955.14 .
General and administrati ve.....................-...........
Total (Refer to Exhibit E for details) ........... .
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm production ·········----··--·························
Canteen ····-·--···-··-··- ····--············- ··········-···
Salvage -·-···-········- -··---·-···-·-·· -··-··-····-·
Sundry revenue ·································-··········-···

158,114.25
173,273.01
15,213.40
16,361.20

Office supplies and printing... _.
Legal and notary fees ............_..
Endowment Fund expense.... _..
Investment service ·········-·········
Motion picture expense............. .
Sundry expense ····-········-·········

323

11,809.65
538.41
301.65
38.34

12,688.05

----- $ 366,999.08

Net operating eicpense••·--··--····-· ·-··---·····
Exhibit D
Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Co vina
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1954
Operating ExpeDUl
-··--$ 151,104.06
Maintenance .
22,689.94
Administrati ve expense ·····-··--········-·················
.
$
......
_
Total (Refer to Exhibit F for details) ...
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue: Farm production..........
Net Operating Expense..·-······-··--··-·· ····-··---··-··
Exhibit E
Detailed. Operating Expense-De coto
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1954
Maintenance
Food:
- - - . $ 24,482.90
Groceries
25,955.30
Meat ···-·-··-··-·-··-················-···
1,941.80
Fish ··········-·-··-· ..·······-············:....
12,186.37
Fruit and vegetables... - ..··-····28,891.83
Butter, milk and eggs................
3,807.54
··
····-·················
supplies
Bakers'
Total food cosl.·-········-······-···

97,265.74

$

173,794.00
4,890.02
168,903.98

324

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Less charge to hospital
for meals -···-····-··-··········-·····
Kitchel!- and d.ininJ room:
RepaJ.rs and mamtenance......... .
Expense ···-···························-·····
Salaries and wages............•.............
Sundry:
Residents' supplies ....................
Dry goods and bedding..............

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

21,079.08 $

76,186.66

1,456.71
3,130.24

4,586.95
60,525.30

1,658.25
2,286.42

3,944.67

Total maintenance expense ..
Hospital and Medical
Salaries and wages..........................
Meals to staff and patients........... .
Medical supplies ···········-···············
Dental expense ···-··························
Surgical expense ·······--·················
Eye, ear, nose and throat............. .
Farm and Garden
Salaries and wages........ ·-···············
Tools and implements................... .
Seeds ·······--······--················-··-···
Feed ······-··--·-······-··- ·-··-···········
Miscellaneous expense ·············-···

$
39,929.67
21,079.08
6,235.59
1,640.59
31,463.43
2,019.50

8,781.36
1,697.65

Heating Plant
Salaries and waJeS......................... .
Repairs and mamtenance... ~ ......... .

11,204.79
2,524.25

Transportation
Salaries and wages. •••••......••...........•
Gas and oil..·---··-··-······-··-·-·-···
Tires and repairs..·-··-·····················
General and Administratln
Superintendent and office
salaries -·-··--··-··-··-··· ·-·······
Hospital plan ·····-·--········-······--·
Light, heat, power and water......
Office supplies and printing......... .
Telephone and telegraph. ............ .
Repairs and maintenance............. .
Furniture and equipment..............
Miscellaneous expense ·············-···
Total operating expense-Decat o

145,243.58

Exhibit F
Detailed Operating Expem._cO'f'in a
For the Fiscal Year Ended J'uly 31. 1954
Maintenance
Care of ·Children:
Food:
8,080.32
Meat --·-·-··--··-· ·-··.$
Fruits and vegetables............
2,615.02
Butter, milk and eggs............
8,565.02
1,916.59
Bakery goods ·--··-··-·············
Miscellaneous groceries ....... .
724.39
Outside meals ....•.....................
3,562.88 $
25,464.22
Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries ···················-···············
Supplies and repairs..............

102,367.86

12,587.30
3,728.21
463.56
4,246.26
4,199.90

Laundry
Salaries and wages..·-·····················
Supplies and expense....................

Paint Shop
Salaries and wages....................·-···
Supplies and expense................... .

325

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

25,225.23

Laundq':
Salaries ···-··-··············-···········
Supplies and repairs........·-···

10,479.01

Dormitories:
Salaries ·········-·····-···-·············
Supplies and repairs........·-···
Replacements ..........................

13,729.04

3,725.82
898.57

Clothing:
Ready-to-wear .............•..........
Cleaning and repair................
Dry Goods and notions..........

4,624.39

Domestic science cottage:
Supplies and repairs............. .
Hospital and medical:
Salaries ····-·······-··············-···
Dentists' fees ............................
Medicines and drugs ......·-·····
Other supplies and repairs....
Outside hospital and X-ray•.
General expense:
Miscellaneous e~ense ..........

300.00
954.58
808.30

2,062.88

29,837.21
704.21
23,562.36
1,011.30
1,391.41
13,999.46
1,683.20 .
3,765.99

75,955.14

$

379,687.13

11,713.17
9,348.79

21,061.96

1,928.10
249.76
122.25

2,300.11

4,622.24
909.26

5,531.50

29,462.48
2,948.41
1,704.83

34,115.72

-----

---------

280.00
6,254.81
1,956.21
874.23
238.88
172.40

-----

473.54

Total care of children. .......
General Houae. Property, and Farm Expense:
Power plant:
Supplies and repairs...·-···-···
$
Repairs to buildings:
Salaries ···-··-··-··'·········-· ··-·-'
11,518.28
Supplies and repairs._._
7,663.06
Farm and grounds:
Salaries ···--····················- ··-··
Supplies and maintenance....
Replacements ···-··-··-······-·····
Animal husbandry ···-··-·······

9,496.53

9,753.28
2,037.19
389.84
6,722.64

$
5,585.08

18,902.95

98,723.58

326

The Masonic Homes Endowment Fund appears as a separate audit
to facilitate study and examination although it is, in reality, a fund
belonging to Masonic Homes of California.
September 20, 1954

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Orchard expense:
Supplies and maintenance....
Water ·····················-··-·············

630.54
266.66

General expense:
Gas, water and light..............
Sundry supplies and expense

7,169.79
644.12

897.20

7,813.91

Total house, property and
farm expense ···-······Total maintenance cost..
Administrative Expense
Salaries ················-·····--·················
Hospital plan ................................. .
Stationery, printing and postage
Telephone and telegraph..............
Freight and express..................·-···
Automobile expense ·····-···············
Miscellaneous expense ···-·············

$

53,380.48
151,104.06

13,156.04
472.16
1,533.76
1,561.69
684.22
4,113.68
1,168.39

Total administrative expense..
Total operating expense-Covina

327

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

22,689.94

$

173,794.00

ENDOWMENT FUND
GENTLEMEN:
We have audited the accounts and records of the MASONIC HOMES
ENDOWMENT FUND for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1954 and submit
·
herewith the following statements:
EXHIBIT A: STATEMENT OF ASSETS, JULY 31, 1954.
SCHEDULE 1: ENDOWMENT FUND SECURITIES OWNED,
JULY 31, 1954.
EXHIBIT B: STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS, AUGUST 1, 1953 TO JULY 31, 1954.
SCHEDULE 2: SECURITIES REDEEMED AND SOLD DURING THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1954.
EXHIBIT C: STATEMENT OF JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH
FUND, JULY 31, 1954.
EXHIBIT D: STATEMENT OF INCOME AND CAPITAL ACCOUNTS,
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1954.
COMMENTS
Cash:
The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries. All interest and dividends due from investments and savings bank
accounts were received and deposited in the bank accounts of the Masonic
Homes of California. The total income received by the Homes from the
Endowment Fund amounted to $173,273.01 as compared to $155,052.86 for
last year.
Securities:
Securities owned on July 31, 1954 are listed on Schedule 1. Securities
redeemed and sold during the current year are listed on Schedule 2.
Stocks and bonds purchased are listed at cost. Donated securities are
listed at market value when received, or at a nominal value of $1.00 if the
actual value is unknown.
Certified lists of the securities held for the account of the Endowment
and Luckenbach Funds were received from the Anglo California National
Bank which has custody of the securities. The records were checked to these
lists and the securities not listed were inspected by us at the office of the
Grand Secretary.
Increase in Fund:
The combined assets of the Endowment Fund and the Luckenbach Fund
show the following increase for the current year:
Amount of funds, July 31, 195-L------ ----f 5,600,606.15
Amount of funds, July 31, 1953·-- · · - · · - - · - · -·- - 5,148,931.11
451,675.04
·--··-··-·---·-- -----·----·---·$=========

Increase
The increase is accounted for ilS follows:
Cash donations and bequest&..----- ··-------·-.$
Securities donated ···············-······-··-··-······ ··········-·-··-·······
Profit on sale of securities..·-·--··-····· -··-····-··-····---·····
Increase

399,060.92
3.00
52,611.12

328

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The donations received through Lodges were confirmed by correspondence with the individual Lodges as at June 15, 1954.
Other Endowment Assets:
The books of the Masonic Homes carry the record of the Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund. After the death of the beneficiaries of this
fund, the remainder will be transferred to the Endowment Fund. The
Masonic Homes audit report shows that this fund had a balance of $18,407.37
as at July 31, 1954.
The Masonic Homes also hold several pieces of real estate for the account
of the Endowment Fund. Whenever a sale is made the proceeds will be transferred to the account of the Endowment Fund.
Accountants' Opinion:

In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly the financial
position of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund at July 31, 1954 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER A PARKER
Certified Public Accountant

329

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA
ENDOWMENT AUDIT

Exhibit A
Statement of Assets
July 31, 1954

Endowment Fund:
Cash in savings accounts:
Anglo California National Bank... _.............$ 262,463.51
Bank of America ·······································-··· 101,643.28
Pacific National Bank ·······-·············-············
53,182.20 $ 417,288.99

Securities-at cost:
(For details see Schedule 1)
Bonds ·······················-······-················-··-··-······· 3,185,164.28
Stocks ···············································-··············· 1,922,403.25
Miscellaneous ·························-·······················
11,986.88
Total ···················································-····· 5,119,554.41
Less reserve for amortization of bond
premiums ···········-·····································
2,503.18
Net cost of securities..·-·-·······················

5,117,051.23

Total Endowment Fund assets............
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund:
Cash in savings account:
Anglo California National Bank..................
Securities-at cost:
(For details see Exhibit C) ..........•.·--···········

5,534,340.22

10,835.33
55,430.60

Total Luckenbach Fund assets..............

66,265.93

Grand Total Endowment Fund Assets................

$5,600,606.15

Schedule 1
Regular Endowment Fund Securities Owned
July 31, 1954
Bonds
$45,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Equipment Trust, 2Ys%, 3/1/60..$
5,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Equipment Trust, 2Ys%, 9/1/60..
5,000 Chicago Board of Education, 4% %, 1954............................. .
50,000 Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific R.R. Equipment Trust,
series N, 2o/4 %, 8/1/62....................... _...............................
25,000 Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R.R. Equipment Trust,
series K, 3%, 3/1/62 ·······················-············-···················
15,000 Dow Chemical Company, 3%, 7/1/12...------·-··-·-··-··-···
40,000 Illinois Central Eqwpment Trust, series 35, 2% %, 5/1/62
10,000 Illinois Central Equipment Trust, series 35, 2% %, 11/1/62
2,000 Inland Steel Company, 31/4 %, 1972....................................... .
3,000 International Mineral & Chemical Corp., 3.65%, 1977....... .
50,000 Louisville & Nashville R. R. Equipment Trust, series L,
2Ys %, 7/15/62 ·········-····-··········-··-··-·································
25,000 Minnesota, St Paul & S. St. Marie R.R. Equipment
Trust, 3 % % , 1/1/62...-··-··-······-······--·-········-···············
25,000 Missouri Pacific R.R. Equipment Trust, 3%%, 7/1/61... ...
25,000 Northern Pacific Ry. Equipment Trust, 3%, 11/30/63........
50,000 Pittsburgh & Lake Erie R.R. Equipment Trust, 2%%,
4/15/61 ········-·········-·······················--·-··-······-···············

Cost
44,999.81
4,999.98
5,688.70
49,247.80
24,786.82
15,281.25
39,569.18
9,887.66
2,015.55
2,888.25
49,892.21
24,847.76
24,951.34
24,999.68
49,606.81

330

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

331

ENDOWMENT AUDIT

ENDOWMENT AUDIT

50,000 St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Equipment Trust, 2'Vs %,
8/1/59 •••-••••••••••-••••ooooooooo•-oo•• ••••••••oo-••••••••••••••••••-•
50,000 Seaboard Airlines R.R. Equipment Trust, 2%%, 12/1/62..
15,000 Sinclair Oil Corp., 3l/4 %, 1983................................................ ..
5 000 Standard Oil Company of Indiana, 3~%, 1982........... - ...... .
130:000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956..........................................
00 • • • • • • 0000 00

Increased redemption value F bonds. .......................... .

2,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.i%, August 1954............
85,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1955........................... .
100 000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.i%, 1957........................... .
100:000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.i%, 1958.......................... ..
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1959........................... .
980,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1960........................... .
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2%, 1961-......................... .
200,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series K, 2.76%, 1966............................
422,000 U. S. Treasury Notes, series B, 1 % %, 1955............................
100,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21,2%, 1961........................................... .
160,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, Investment series A, 2lf.i%, 1965... .
165,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2lf.i%, 1969-64..................................... .
12,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, series B, 234 %, 1980-75.................. ..
5,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21,2%, 1972-67 ......................................
35,000 Wheeling Steel Corp., 31,2%, 1965......................... _ ............. .

50,078.85
49,442.85
15,183.25
5,112.50
96,200.00
24,570.00
2,200.00
85,000.00
100,000.00
100,000.00
100,000.00
980,000.00
100,000.00
200,000.00
422,000.00
101,093.75
160,000.00
168,346.88
12,093.75
4,837.50
35,342.15

Total bonds ...........................- .. -··-·-·-----···---.......$3,185,164.28
Stocks:
Shares of Preferred:
75 American Cyanamid Co., 3% % ···-····-·-·--·--...- ...$
180 Canada Dry Gingerale, 4l/4 % .......- ........-·-··-···............
180 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 3l/4 % ......................
10 Healdsburg General Hospital ........... - .............................. .
300 Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp., 5% ......................
240 Liquid Carbonic Corp., 3lf.i%----·------ ---..-·.
325 McCrory Stores, 3lf.i% ........................................................
60 Mathieson Chemical Corp., 411.i % .......- ...........................
150 Merck & Company, $4.00 .................................- ...............
558 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 6% ...- .................... - .. .
96 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 51,2% ..........................
720 Philadelphia Electric Company, $1.00............................
100 Safeway Stores, Inc.,
180 United Aircraft Corp., 5% ................----...................... .
160 United Air Lines, Inc., 41,2% ...........- ................................ .
200 United States Plywood Corp., 3% ~ ..............·-··-·-..-·

$'.30-·-··-·····--··---·..-·················

7,648.00
18,068.40
17,543.07
1.00
14,970.26
18,544.66
26,030.23
6,030.65
14,847.91
15,855.75
2,430.00
18,347.19
10,547.50
19,680.41
15,085.62
17,691.20

Total preferred stock..-··--·-··-- -·-·-·-..-·-..--$ 223,321.85
Shares of Common:
1,100 Air Reduction Company, Inc........................................... ..
180 Allied Chemical & Dye Corp.............................................
575 American Cyanamid Company ........................................
500 American Gas & Electric Company................................
200 American Home Products Corp.... _ ..................................
135 American Telephone & Telegraph Company.............. ..
375 American Tobacco Company ............................................
600 Anglo California National Bank....................................... .
600 Atlantic Refining Company ..............................................
240 Bankers Trust Company of New York............................
360 Beatrice Foods Corp......................................................... ..

30,752.49
13,995.51
27,592.76
17,477.45
7,809.26
20,876.90
25,384.77
20,809.48
19,626.18
10,920.00
12,992.69

644 Central & Southwest Corp.... ____.................- .............. .
1,280 Central H~dson Gas & Electric Company..................... .
300 Chase National Bank ..........................................................
264 Chemical Bank & Trust Company ....................................
288 Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company..................... .
560 Columbian Carbon Company ......................................... .
500 Columbus & Southern Ohio Electric Company............
660 Commonwealth Edison· Company ....................................
360 Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.........
500 Consumers Power Company ............................................
320 Continental Oil Company ..................................................
300 Corn Products Refining Company.................................. ..
300 Dayton Power & Light Company ....................................
346 Delaware Power & Light Company............................... .
600 Detroit Edison Company ....................................................
600 Duquesne Light Company ................................................
382 Eastman Kodak Company ................................................
500 Fire Assn. of Philadelphia....................................... _ ........
400 Firemen's Fund Insurance Company..............................
285 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp................-·······---··
720 General Electric Company ................................................
500 General Foods Corporation ..............................................
757 General Public Utilities Corp...........................................
303 Gulf Oil Corporation ..........................................................
340 Hercules Powder Company ...... _ .....................................
300 Home Insurance Company ...........................................- ...
760 Illinois Power Company ....................................................
1,000 International Mineral & Chemical Corp...................... .
500 International Paper Company ..........................................
1,500 Irving Trust Company ............-·-······-····· ..........................
490 Kansas City Power & Light Company............................
300 Kennecott Copper Corporation ........................................
300 Koppers Company, Inc.....................................................
600 Lone Star Gas Company......................................................
500 McKesson & Robbins, Inc......- ................................ _.. _...
180 Manufacturers Trust Company ........................................
2,000 Merck & Company, Inc.....................................................
686 Middle South Utilities, Inc.............- ................................
840 Minnesota Power & Light Company............................... .
280 Monsanto Chemical Company ..........................................
600 Montana Power Company ..................................................
315 Montgomery Ward & Company ............................. _.......
25 J.P. Morgan & Company, Inc................................._ .......
300 Philip Morris & Co., Ltd.---·-·..·······-· ................ _, ....,
100 National Shawmut Bank of Boston ................................
1,114 New England Electric System ........................................
594 New York State Electric & Gas Company....................
726 Niagara Mohawk Power Company ................................
125 North American Company ................................................
1,485 Northern States Power Company ....................................
480 Ohio Edison Company ...................................................... ..
240 Ohio Oil Company ..............................................................
360 Owens Illinois Glass Company ...................................... ..
206 Pacific Gas & Electric Company..................................... .
600 Parke, Davis & Company................................................... .
600 Pennsylvania Power & Light Company........................ ..
675 Chas. Pfizer & Company.................................................... ..
250 Phillips Petroleum Company -··----······ ........................ .
1,245 Public Service Electric & Gas Company...................... ..

10,875.82
13,623.00
11,062.50
10,440.00
12,859.28
26,460.94
14,133.14
20,685.97
11,695.93
20,414.49
19,625.16
19,904.96
11,161.18
8,244.68
13,523.59
16,683.78
15,405.65
24,634.75
22,800.00
13,513.61
14,484.06
29,222.51
15,891.77
15,117.83
23,258.81
12,615.54
31,256.80
33,393.85
29,783.19
37,208.99
13,358.59
20,615.22
13,444.15
14,449.16
19,622.41
9,540.00
41,233.86
16,778.40
14,430.22
24,751.53
12,914.14
19,376.14
5,416.25
15,659.07
2,654.31
14,036.65
14,549.71
17,240.19
655.19
15,622.09
14,537.52
13,129.15
26,107.54
6,663.65
23,395.12
22,939.19
23,461.51
12,329.70
31,178.44

334

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ENDOWMENT AUDIT

ENDOWMENT AUDIT

Stocks
Shares:
100 American Home Products Corp.·-·····--············-············-······· 5,404.38
300 American Tobacco Company...................................................... 22,866.33
50 Bakersfield Masonic Temple Assn•...,·-··-----······-·················
500.00
60 Beatrice Foods Company, pfd., 3%3-····--·-······-········-······· 7,332.07
257 Bendix Aviation Corp·--·--········-·····-·····························-··· 18,324.47
60 Celanese Corp. of America, pfd., 41h%-···············-··-·····-······ 4,375.54
300 Continental Can Company, fnc .............................·-········--······· 20,479.15
360 General American Transportation Corp................................... 13,229.58
306 H~rshey Chocolate~·········-·········-·····-········-················· 11,818.52
600 Libbey Owens Ford Glass Company.......................................... 26,492.68
264 National Cash Register Company.............................................. 20,723.30
700.00
7 Needles Masonic Temple Assn....·-·············--···························
300 Shellmar Products Corp............................... ·-····························· 9,120.91
180 Southern California Edison Company, pfd., 4.483.............. 6,416.76
360 Union Carbide & Carbon Corp•..·-······-··········-·········-············ 25,131.06
420 York Corp., pfd., 41h %..--··-·--·····'--··-···.:......-··-··········-~ 23,523.05
Liquidating dividends and rights sold... .;......·-···-··················
157,43
Payment received on notes....·-··········-··-··································· 6,574.50
Total proceeds...·-··-····--···-····-······--··-··-··········-················-$759, 749.48
ExhibitC
Statement of "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund"
·
July 31. 1954
Cash in Savings Account:
Anglo California National Bank..-······-··;.··············-"····-······-······--·$ 10,835.33
Securities:
Bonds:
$16,200 U. S. Savings Bonds,
series F, 1957.......................................... $ 11,988.00
Increase in redemption value........
2,381.40 $ 14,369 40
35,000 U. S. Savings Bonds,
·
35,000.00
series G, 21h %, 1957............................
Stocks:
300 shares Remington Rand, Inc...·-····-··-·····-···6,061.20
Total cost of aecurities............- -···-··-·--······-----··-·---···

55,430.60

Total Luckenbach Fund Cash and Securities·-············-··-······-··········· $ 66,265.93
ExhibitD
Statement of Income and Capital Accounts
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1954
Income Accounts:
Income received from Endowment Fund investments:
fndkwment Fund.--····-··-·····--·······-···········-····-··-.$171,716.20
uc enbach Fund..-·--·-··-·--··-··--·--······-··· 1,827.35 $173,543.55
Deduct annual amortization of bond premiums
restored to Endowment capital.__ ,..____________...........- ............._
270.54
Total income transferred to the Homes General Fund..~....,..................$173,273.01

335

Capital Accounts

Endowment Luckenbach
Total
Balance, August 1, 1953..r-·······-··-···$5,082,665.18 $ 66,265.93 $5,148,931.11
Additions to Funds:
Donations and bequests:
Cash (Exhibit B>---·············-·-·
Securities (Schedule l)..·--·-····

399,060.92
3.00

Total donations and bequests..

399,063.92

Profit from sale of securities:
Proceeds (Schedule 2) ...•·--··-···
Less book value.. ·-·-···················

759,749.48
707,138.36

Net profit ·····························-···

52,611.12

Total additions ........•...........

451,675.04

Balance, July 31, 1954.......- ...................$5,534,340.22 $ 66,265.93

$5,600,606.15

336

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
October 4, 1954
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
GENTLEMEN:
We have examined the records of the CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE, a corporation, from its beginning January 6 to July 31, 1954.
The building located on the property owned by the corporation is operated under the management of the James Hurst Company, a realty company.
We examined the records of the building operations as maintained by the
James Hurst Company and found them in order.
As a part of this report we attach hereto the' following statements:
EXHIBIT A: BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1954.
EXHIBIT B: STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS, JANUARY 6, 1954 TO JULY 31, 1954.
EXHIBIT C: STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSE-PROPERTY OPERATIONS, SEPTEMBER 25, 1953 TO JULY 31, 1954.
COMMENTS
All receipts and expenditures have been included in the statements. All
amounts were verified with the exception of the contributions by individuals
in the amount of $504,607.18. The total contributions by individuals is the
amount deposited in the bank as coming from Masons throughout the State
of California. We were unable to verify this amount, or the amount of the
unpaid pledges by an examination of the pledge cards due to the fact that
the office procedure was in process of being changed over to a punch-card
system by the International Business Machine Corporation. As a result of
this change, a part of the pledge cards were at the I. B. M. office and were
not properly segregated nor readily available for a proper examination.
The cash balance as at July 31, 1954 was in the following banks:
Treasurer's bank accounts:
Commercial account&:
Bank of America ···-········--··········-··-··········-····-··-·.$ 99,529.44
Bank of California ···-··-··········-·-··-··-·····-·---··-··· 49,898.68
Savings accounts:
Bank of America ....... -................................................... 50,000.00
Bank of California ............................... -....................... 150,000.00
Pacific National Bank .......................-......................... 50,000.00
Building Manager's bank account...-...............................
755.66

Total.·--········-··-······-··-··---···-·-···..··-··-··-·····..$400, 183.78
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER A. PARKER
Certified Public Accountant
Exhibit A
Balance Sheet
July 31. 1954
ASSETS
Cash on hand and in banks: (Exhibit B)
Treasurer's bank accounts - - - - · - - - -......... .$ 399,428.12
Building manager's bank account............................
755.66 $ 400,183.78
Properties:
Real estate and building at 1115 California Street
Other costs:
Title insurance and recording fees ......$1,603.90
Architects' and engineers' fees............ 9,064.79
Rezoning expense .................................. 1,588.80

337

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

730,000.00

12,257.49

742,257.49

Other Assets:
Unexpired insurance ...............................- .................
Due from tenants ........................................................

275.58
91.91

Total assets ............................................... .

367.49
$1,142,808.76

LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
CU%1'ent Liabilities:
408.06
Accounts payable-operating accounts................$
•Mortgage on property .............................................. 103,500.00
431.25
Accrued interest on mortgage ................................
1,098.50
Security on leases ..................................................... .
28.55
Payroll taxes and deductions ............................... .

----- $ 105,466.36

Total liabilities ...................................... ..

Capital:
Contributions per Exhibit B ............._ .............-... 1,040,155.55
Less, excess of expense over revenue
(Exhibit C) ............................................................
2,813.15
Balance, July 31, 1954................-·····---···-···--·

1,037,342.40

$1,142,808.76
Total liabilities and capital..-··-···········
•NOTE: The mortgage of $103,500.00 was paid on August 2, 1954.
Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
January 6. 1954 to July 31. 1954
Receipts
Received by the Treasurer:
Contributions:
Received prior to August 1, 1953:
War Relief Fund ....................................................$158,507.44
Bequest-Estate of Andrew Morton.................. 25,000.00
Per capita-1952 annual returns.......................... 102,635.00
Received current year-1953-54:
Centennial Celebration Fund .............................. 5,822.93
Per capita-1953 annual returns..........;.........•..... 210,819.00
Initiates-advance payment on 1954 returns.... 32,609.00
Individuals .............................................................. 504,607 .18
Sale of Centennial books......................................
155.00
$1,040,155.55
Total contributions ....................................
Building operations:
Refund of interest paid...-··-···--···-··--·-·--··-·-···
862.50
17,162.50
From building management.................................... 16,300.00

Total.......................--·--·-·-··-·--·--··

1,057 ,318.05

Received by building management:
Collections from tenants........................................._.... 24,647.35
Refunds of expense......:..............................-.................
46.00

24,693.35

Total receipts ..............................................

1,082,011.40

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disbunemen ts
Disbursed by the Treasurer:
P~~ents on real estate.............- .........$626,500.00
Title .insurance and recording fees...... 1,603.90
9,064. 79
~ch1t.ects' and engineers' fees ....·-·····
ezonmg expense .................................. 1 588.80
~t~;!st"·..·······················-······················-··· 193,:914522. 5603

DECOTO RESIDENTS
July 31, 1954
Names of Residenta-- MElf-Avera ge age: 78.71
•Indicate• admlaaion daring evrent 7ear.

-······-····-'"······································

Total ·····-······························· 661,852.62
Less pro-rata of income and
expenses by seller of property........ 3,962.69

339

657,889.93

D~bursed by Building Management :

Bo lJ.easurer ····:···············.. ······················ 16,300.00
u mg operation expense.................. 7,637.69

23,937.69

Total disbursemen ts ..........

681,827.62

Cash Balance, July 31, 1954.·-··················

$ 400,183.78

Exhibit C
Property Operations
Statement of Revenue and Expense
September 25, 1953 to July 31, 1954
Revenue
·················-$ 24,627.08
Rents .····;······-··-····························-·······················
70.36
Conm11ss1ons from Pacific Gas & Electric Company....

Total revenue ..................................................
Expense

$ 24,697.44

~~~emeiifi~e;··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: . 1,000.00
369.00
1,588.85

··················-··········-··--········-··············
L ~~e ~omm1Ss1ons and
water............................................
1g t, eat, power
························································=
ERlev11:tor
epairs: maintenance

2,584.93
363.40

····-···-··············--·-·············-------·-······················-········

276.00
426.50
134.54
111.66
181.00
125.23
101.67

~iint~g and plastering......................·-·-····-··--····· ··-··
El~~ri~f ··········-····-····-······································-···········
···-·--··-·-·-·· ···..·····-······-·········· ····-------·-·-·······
Supplies

·····-···········································
~:~:::;!r·~~~ic;;·················
..................................................................- ................................
Police patrol

···--····························· . ······················-················
Taxes:
::al ;dtate and personal property........................ ·-······· 10,663.74
28.20
~est on mortgage______··········--··-··-- ······-··-······· 8,711.25
751.06
······-··-······--····-·T 1 ance ···-··-······-··········-················
69.70
Se e~one and teleeraph...- .............................................
23.86
un es ···········-······-···-·············-··-·································

1nr · · · · -· · · -· · · · ·-· · · · · · · · · ·-· · · · · · · · · · -· · · ·
Total expense ·················-·····························

27,510.59

Excess E%pense Over Revenue....·-··-·······-···· -·········-

$ 2,813.15

Age
Town
No.
Admitted Lodge
Name
Albers, George R. ........Feb. 17, '45 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......86
An~erson, Alfred H .....Sept. 25, '51 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ......81
Baril, Leon J .................Feb. 22, '52 Jas. A. Foshay....641 Los Angeles ____62
Barr, George W ............ .May 24, '54 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ····-·--72
Bartram, Edward E.• ....Oct. 17, '53 Southern Calif...278 Los Angeles -·-··82
Bassett, Henry N. ···----·Jan. 6, '50 Santa Paula ......291 Santa Paula __ 79
Batt, Saul C. ·--······-··-··.Ju ne 2, '52 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ...-77
Baumgardne r, Will L .....Jan 12, '52 Pajaro ·······-··---110 Watsonville _____99
Beckman, Carl A. ............May 3, '51 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ____..71
Bellina, Charles H. • ....Oct. 26, '53 Progress De
L'Oceanie..371 Honolulu ···-·····--84
Bog~s, Frederick H .....Aug. 10, '47 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......79
Buffington, Will C .........June 22, '53 Fort Crook ........575 Fall River Mills....64
Burke, Harold E ......-..July 26, '49 York ....................423 Los Angeles ........61
Cassady, Earl J ...............Feb. 3, '36 Geo. Washingt'n 525 San Francisco __83
Childs, Clarence E .........Oct. 8, '41 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ··-··-·····94
Cicero, Carmel ......... _ ..Mar. 27, '53 Yount ·············-··· 12 Napa ·······-·-····-···73
Collins, Wm. W .......,.....Sept. 22, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ..._88
Condon, Wilbert S.........Jan. 11, '42 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ···-··--78
Cowan, Will E ..____.July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ____319 Los Angeles --···85
Date, Harrington _ .......Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ................601 Portola --·---86
Davis, John O .................May 28, '53 San Benito ..........211 Hollister ··-··-··---82
Dixon, Edgar A.............Nov. 19, '48 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ---80
Dowdall, Frederick W...Aug. 3, '43 Solano ................229 Vallejo --··-·---'14
Duncan, Cary G.• ···-··-··-Dec. 3, '53 Fresno ................247 Fresno ···-······-··-'10
Elder, James R. ···-··-··.Dec. 13, '50 Abell ·--···-·14 6 Ukiah ···--··--80
Epstein, Louis- N. • ........Mar. 4, '54 Alpha ···-······----431 Richmond --·-···88
Felton, Wilson K..._____ .July 1, '48 Calexico ···-··----412 Calexico --·---8'1
Foss, Alexander _ _Oct. 21, '52 Standard ............440 Oakland ·--·...88
Frare, Giacomo ..........._.Apr. 1, '51 Sp'r'nza Itali'na 219 San Francisco ...-73
Frost, Frank M.............June 25, '52 Temple City _ ..612 Temple City ........83
Frost, Harold G...............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ····--·-·.537 Los Angeles ........64
Gelston, Hollister ........Sept. 12, '49 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......82
Godfrey, Henry S. • ......July 25, '54 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ···-··-·---83
54
Goldstein, Henry D. • ....Dec. 23, '53 Standard _______440 Oakland -·
···-··--71
Merced
99
............
Yosemite
'52
3,
Sept.
W.-..
W.
,
Goldsworthy
Greaves, Walter ............Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ···-·-·---.396 Alameda ..............85
Gregory, George W.....Apr. 25, '36 Sunset ·······---352 Los Angeles __88
Grogan, Robert G. • ... .Aug. 11, '53 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood _ _...62
Halpin, Robert L ..........Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel ....415 Los Angeles •..- ..81
Hannum, Alexander ....Nov. 28, '52 Harding ···-·····--584 Los Angeles .....-84
Hansell, Calvin E .........Nov. 18, '50 Mission ................169 San Francisco __...83
Harth, Arthur P .............Sept. 4, '40 Lindsay ..............416 Lindsay ................80
Hendricks, Allred ........Nov. 17, '50 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ···-··-·-··73
65
Hepburn, Robert ······-··.Apr. 7, '52 Palisades ··-·······63'1 Santa Monica ......
Hiltner, Harry B ...........Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......8'1
Holman, Harry T ...........July 15, '48 Paul Revere ......462 San Francisco __'17
Holmes, Emil A.• ............Nov. 9, '53 Golden State ......358 Los Angeles •.......71
Howard, James W.........Feb. 21, '52 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ··--·-·80
Hufstedler, Charles• ....Mar. 5, '54 Mariposa ·······-··· 24 Mariposa ...........-'14
Huling, Wallace S.........Dec. 27, '52 Hammonton ......433 Hammonton ........77
Hyman, Milton ···--······.Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......68
Jack, Charles P ........._ ...Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ·--·-··.354 San Francisco -'15
Jackson, Francis F .........Oct. 17, '52 Oakland ..............188 Oakland --··--.86

340

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Age
No. Town
Jefts, Benjamin J ...........Oct. 27, '48 Justice - .........- ...549 San Francisco ......81
Johansen, Cedolf S. •-..Apr. 23, '54 Malta ·---·--···-·····661 Los Angeles ........80
~ohnsolt Einar M•... _.. .Sept. 19, '51 Point Firman ....558 San Pedro ....... _...67
o!les, oward T.•...- ...Aug. 14, '53 Holtville ...- .......425 Holtville ......._ .. _72
Joltler, Wm. B ........ _.......Feb. 11, '47 Marin ...- ......- .....191 San Rafael ..........90
Keen, Cassius H........ -...Dec. 15, '51 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........84
~etcheson, Horace ......Mar. 17, '50 Wilmingto n ........198 Wilmingto n ........-84
Inglewood ............62
L ab1'ence, ~~ward S •..Mar. 22, :47 Inglewood ..........421 San
Francisco ......84
o ban, Wilham ..._.. __ .Aug. 8, 52 Park ........... _.......449
Lothrop, Harry 0, •._...Aug. 20, '53 Bay View ...- .......401 Oakland --------'11
Martin, W~a!ll S .... - .. .Mar. 20, '51 Western Star .... 2 Shasta ...............,._'16
Matlock, W1ll1am L ....July 12, '51 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ···-···-··-· "
Matthews, Elbert C._...July 10, '35 La Mesa ....... _.....407 La Mesa ···-··----···86
May, Fred ............. _.. _...Aug. 15, '51 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ......·-····-90
-.63
McLean, Lawrence• ......Apr. 4, '54 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne .......
Me~, John C ........... _..Mar. 3, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......80
Mellinger, Walter E .........May 5, '51 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach....87
Menke, William ······-··.Nov . 26, '49 Richmond ····-···375 San Francisco ......81
Moore, Andrew A..•.- .•.Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............300 Redlands ···--··-··· 79
Millar, James F.• ..........Nov. 30, '53 Crocker ............-454 Daly City ......._ ...63
Murray, James B ........ .Apr. 17, '53 Westwood ...--...501 Westwood ···-··-···'14
N~chols, Charles G. T ...Apr. 10, '52 Sunnyvale ····-····511 Sunnyvale ..........-88
NDCon, Robert D .............Apr. 25, '47 Bell ... ___........-483 Bell ........................93
......6'1
Nordstrom , David P .......Nov. 3, '52 Doric ··-·······--····....216 San Francisco
Oakley, Charles W .........Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus ..............129 Wheatland ............78
O'Brien, William P.•..... .Mar. 8, '54 Elsinore ··-··--··-.289 Elsinore ···-··-··-···74
Overton, Percival G.* ..May 14, '54 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......72
Palmer, James B .........Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ...........- ...204 Salinas ...............-92
Peale, Charles W .........Aug. 18, '51 Montebello ........451 Montebello ···--···72
Peppin, John B.• ............May 26, '54 Eden ........... __ ..113 San Leandro ···-···87
5 Fresno ···········-·····79
Peters, Thomas C.......Sept. 11, '50 Center ---··--···46
88
Place, John N .................Dec. 29, '52 Sierra Valley ....184 Sierraville ............
Plato, John ..................... .Feb. 5, '48 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ......._.90
Porter, Wm. G ....- .....- .....Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........80
Price, William L. • ........Feb. 19, '54 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......68
Reed, William• ..............Oct. 26, '53 Sequoia ..... ____ ,349 Oakland ···········-···81
Regan, Edwin D .... _.......Mar. 19, '52 Dunsmuir ...._....297 Dunsmuir ....... _...'18
Richardson , Will T .... _.July 29, '50 Santa Maria ......580 Ramona ........... _...61
......64
Riddle, Starr D .............Dec. 26, '50 Excelsior .......- ...166 San Francisco ......
72
Roberts, Daniel C.• ....Sept. 18, '53 Justice .................549 San Francisco
Russell, Frederick C.....Dec. 26, '49 Pajaro ·---·-··--1 10 Watsonvill e ..........83
8
Salisbury, John T ...........Aug. 4, '51 Upland •-·-···--··-419 Upland ·----··-··-'1
Sherwood, Stanley E. • ..Oct. 19, '53 Parnassus ··-·---388 San Francisco ......88
Shirreff, Charles L ...... .June 26, '53 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ···········-·····'19
Sieben, William J. • ...- ...Jan. 21, '54 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ...._........82
Spaulding, Horace R .....Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ... _.89
77
Stapff, Frederick W.• ....Feb. l, '54 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ......83
Stewart, James O.... _...Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas __
Stillwell, Arthur M.......Aug. 5, '50 Washingto n·····-· 20 Sacrament o .....- ...87
Stowell, George E ........ .Feb. 16, '52 Willits ·--··-····--·3 65 Willits .......- ........90
Stubbs, Will L ...............Mar. 21, '51 Sojourner ..........607 Monrovia _--·····--···83
'14
Sutherland , George W ...July 13, '53 Clovis .............- ...417 Clovis ..... .............
Swahl, Charles• ......-.Aug. 12, '53 Redwood City _..168 Redwood City ......71
Tarmann, Rudolph• ....Dec. 29, '53 Presidio ........_ ...354 San Francisco ......65
Templema n, Henry ......Dec. 29, '38 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......93
Thompson , Charles J ...Nov. 17, '49 Mission ...........--.169 San Francisco ......94
Tilsner, Henry E .............Mar. 2, '46 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......83
Tingley, Charles H .........Dec. 6, '50 Jubilee ""·-······-···604 Santa Ana ···-··-···76
Vanderwe rker, Leonard C.
Apr.13, '47 Alcatraz ··--··-···244 Oakland -·-··--·-83
Name

Admitted

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

341

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
88
-.........
Vorsanger, Edward A June 10, '37 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ...
166 San Francisco ·-···87
Wallace, James S ...........Apr. 18, '51 Excelsior ............426
Taft ____.._____'lo
Wallis, Abraham G ........ .Nov. 2, '47 Midway •.............
Monterey Park ....87
457
..............
'47
Ramona
11,
.Apr.
....
G
Wilford
Watkins,
Wells, William S ............ .Aug. 4, '51 Oriental ·······-·····144 San Francisco ......84
Williams, Chas. F .........Aug. 24, '46 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ···-··-···-'12
Willis, Walter H ...............Dec. 7, '45 Oakland ·········-···188 Oakland ...........- ...77
Wood, Perham W.•........Feb. 26, '54 Amity -·-··---.....370 San Francisco ......74
Young, Frank, E ...............Oct. 5, '51 Hollenbec k ........319 Los Angeles ........80
Deaths of MEN-1953 -1954
Age
No. Town
Died Lodge
Name
_87
.......
g
Healdsbur
123
...
.......
Sotoyome
'54
5,
.May
Baer, Reuben, E ..............
Bartlett, Louis A ..........July 29, '54 Pasadena ...- ........272 Pasadena ···-·--91
Bennett, Charles H ........ .Dec. 3, '53 Lamanda Park ..627 Pasadena --·-··-'1'1
Clark, Frederick C.... _...Dec. 24, '53 Blackmer ............442 San Diego ----H
Conway, Winn P .......... .Apr. 28, '54 Roseville ............222 Roseville ····-··-·-78
Union ·········--.. ··· 58 Sacrament o ...- ...'13
Elworthy, Frederick W.
Mar.30, '54
Knight, John J _____..Jan. 25, '54 Oak Grove .....-.215 Alameda ....._ .. _88
Lawson, Andrew N.......May 17, '54 Coronado .......__441 Coronado _ _ _79
Ludwigsen , Charles J ...July 23, '54 Honolulu ·····-·····409 Honolulu ..............89
Mccroskey , Cyrus B .... -.Dec. 6, '53 Doric ·····-··-···-. 216 San Francisco .•....83
Moignard, Philip R...._.July 19, '54 Carquinez ..........337 Crockett ···-··-··-·85
Robertson, Wilham J .....Aug. 7, '53 Fullerton .....- .....339 Fullerton ..........._.83
Rogers, Albert E ...._.........Jan. 4, '54 Elysian ···--418 Los Angeles ....-.75
Sandbo, Albert E. ............Feb. 2, '54 Golden Rule ......479 San Jose ··········-····83
Quilty, Frank E ...............Dec. 2, '54 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ·····-··-···100
Tuttle, Joseph K. ..............Jan. 3, '54 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ····-----8 2
Warren, George S .........Mar. 15, '54 Signal ···········-···-543 Long Beach ..........77
• Withdraw als-MEN- -3-Averag e age: 72.67
Age
No. Town
Date Lodge
Name
Fraser, John Edward....Oct. 11, '53 North Butte ........230 Gridley ..................69
Harcourt, James ····-·-·..Dec. 15, '53 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......82
Persson, Carl A. ............July '30, '54 Alta Loma ..........643 Long Beach ..........67
Names of Residents -WOMEN -Average age: 80.08
*lndicate1 admlulon darins c:urrent J'e&r.

Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
AdamsiEl sie• ..................Nov. 7, '53 Bethlehem .... _ ...453 San Francisco ......72
Allen, da ..................... .Feb. 17, '40 Balder -·--·--···..3 93 San Francisco ......86l
Ames, Myra D. • .............-.May 8, '54 Delano ...._ .........309 Delano -·-··--·-fr
Anderson, Christine M.
Apr. 10, '50 Yerba Buena ......403 Oakland ................79
Anderson, Ella• ............Oct. 27, '53 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......81
Anderson, Mary D .......Nov. 19, '51 Sequoia ·-··--·····349 Oakland ·············-·79
Aver, Ida M .................... .Mar. 4, '44 Madison ····-··-·· 23 Grass Valley ........84
Baker, Annie J ...............May 15, '48 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland --·-··-····-'18
Barkworth , Elizabeth..June 14, '51 Union ····-··-····- 58 Sacrament o .....•....70
4
Barnes, Anna L .................Oct. 4, '52 Vallejo ···---··---48'1 Vallejo ---···-··-·8
Barnes, Elaine G .............July 7, '34 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ·····-···84
Barry, Agnes c.• ..........Mar. 16, '54 Mount Moriah .. 44 San Francisco ......76
Bartlett, Eva R. ..............Apr. 10, '53 Pasadena ···-······.272 Pasadena ·····-····-81
74
Barr, Mabel Wixon• ......May 24, '54 Sacramen to·--·· 40 Sacrament o ..........90
Bausch, Ella A. ..................Oct. 2, '41 Sequoia ___.....349 Oakland ................
Blakiston, Edith A .........Apr. 4, '48 California ·····-·•· 1 San Francisco ......88

3i2
Name

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Admitted

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.

Town

Age

........585 Los Angeles ·····--78
Bode, Louise H.·-····-·· -.Dec. 28, '50 Manche ster De
Le Progres
Bourlan d, Catherin e D.
L'Ocean ie ....-371 Honolul u ..._:._ ...92
Oct. 31, '51
Ot
B
tie B. • ....- ...Apr. 3, '54 Henry Morse
owman,
Stephen s ···-···541 Berkele y ·········-···7823
A.
Mild
B
. red ........Sept. 14, '52 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisc oo ......
oye~-,
Francisc ......62
:ra~ic, ~lizabeth H .......June 3, '44 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Jose
................83
rame, elle J.• ............Oct. 17, '53 San Jose .............. 10 San Rosa
···-·--74
Santa
Brown, Jean L--·-··. Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57
82
Brown, May M•..............Nov. 29, '42 l'ashing ton ........ 20 Sacrame nto ..........
--65
············
Fresno
···-···366
Palmas
as
'54
21,
.June
:ro7, Ra~el R. • .....
Sacrame nto .......-.76
B rou ton, ary L.• ......Dec. 1, '53 Tehama •............. 3 Los
Angeles ........68
358
....
State
Golden
;52
30,
Sept.
.......
P
e
ryon, Hortens
ir ............89
Dunsmu
297
..........
uir
D1:1nsm
50
11,
Sept.
......
A.
Campbe ll, Ll;lCY
1
......82
Carnall, Lou~e M•......... .Dec. 1, 145 MISsion ................169 San Francisc o
···191 San Rafael ······-···83
Carroll! Nellie P ....- ...Aug. 27, ,49 Marin ···-····-····
..........381 Oceansi de ·········--81
Casterlm e, Mary A .......Apr. 10, ,34 Oc~anside .........
.210 San Jose ····-··-·-- 92
Cauch, Mabel R...._____.Jan. 19, 51 Friendsh ip
299 Santa Clara ..........90
Chappell,. Margare t H. • ..Mar. 1, :54 Liberty .................453
85
San Francisc o
Chase, Aunee C...............Dec. 3, 41 Bethleh em .........
....::::::68
C~eney, Haz~l E.•.- .....Aug. 15, :51 Washing ton ........ 20 Sacrame nto ·-··--61
12 Napa ··············
Cicero, An~omette ..... _.Mar. 27, 53 Yount ...................199
Lakepor t .............. 78
Cope,. Hattie ~fay..........July 29, '52 Hartley ...............
San Jose ................ 78
10
..............
Jose
San
'40
10,
June
.........
L
Mattie
Costain,
ino ............ 78
Mendoc
-····--179
ino
Mendoc
'52
26,
.May
..
_
......
S
Cross, Amanda
........ 79
Angeles
Los
202
..........
ha
Pentalp
'44
16,
ec.
Cun<!ell, Isabel -·-··-··.D
···306 Colton ·········-·········77
~!:}'tIS, Eva J .. _. _ _ _Aug. 27, '52 Ashier ···-··········
·76
ton, Meta C •.•.- .......Jan. 27, '51 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ·······-······
Daly, Martha~· ___ .Jan. 29, ;54 MeJ?.lO Park ........651 Menlo Park ····-··--62
San Francisc o ...... 79
D~er, Jennie ............Aug. 27, 142 Pacific ····-············136
z ···-·····--·83
Dav~es, S.ara!i J._____ ...Jan. 16, 53 Martine z ............ 41 Martine ................84
D~vIS, Mmme ~.• ..........Dec. 21, '53 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose
........ 77
D~bble, Catherm e O.•_Sep t. 10, '53 Pentalp ha ..........202 Los Angeles
........79
DIJCon, Nora E ............_...Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles
nd ·······-···69
Dodge, Helen L. • ...-._.Aug . 21, '53 Harbor ···-···········502 Richmo
20 Sacrame nto ·····-···83
Dott, ~a <?····-····-·····June 11, '52 Washing ton ........
......77
Douthit t, Edith A..-...._.Jan. 21, '50 Golden 'Gate ...... 30 San Francisc o
Berkele y ···-··----6 8
Drewson , Hi~da• ···-·-·-.M ar. 3, '54 Thousan d Oaks 478
o ......72
Edward es, Lma M.........May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisc
re ............73
Edwards , ~-a L ..... _ .. .Nov. 1, '52 Mosaic ···-···········218 Livermo
e ··-········-·80
Edward s, Letiti.a M.......Aug. 30, '50 Vacavill e ............134 Vacavill
Francisc o ......83
Ed~ards, Maylian E. • ....Dec. 7, '53 Excelsio r ............166 San
Hills ......76
Elli~tt, ~a1:1de M•...- ..._June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly
···-·---- Bl
Corning
·.205
-··-··-·····
Olivet
'41
23,
...July
__
B._.
E!Wm, Lillian
Angeles ···-···83
F~ey, Ada L..._____.Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los
·90
Fish, Ge~de L ..- ..- ..Jan. 26, '46 Elmhurs t ............610 Oakland ···-··-······
......97
Ford, Alice ··-··-- -Sept . 1, '49 Excelsio r ............166 San Francisc o
···-······-· ·.417 Clovis ···········-··-···69
Fox, Cora F •.....·-·····-····.Dec. 30, '49 Clovis
ino .. 80
Ga1ford, Sophia B-..- ...Feb. 7, '49 San Bernard ino 348 San Bernard
20 Sacrame nto ···-···87
Gaµup, Fannie• -······-..M ar. 27, '54 Washing ton .........435
San Francisc o ......76
Ge1ble, Theresa -·--.Fe b. 4, '53 Fairmou nt .........
o ......78
~r~es, Clara H. ·····-·-··O ct. 2, '53 King Solomon 's 260 San Francisc
Hemet ·········-·········70
Gilliam, Estelle G .. ___ ..Mar. 20, '46 Hemet -··--··-- 615
Jose ·······-·····83
Goldstei n, Pauline ...-.Nov. 21, '50 San Jose .............. 10 San Angeles
...- ...81
Los
515
tSquare
Vermon
'48
13,
ne
·-·····Ju
Emma
n,
Goodwi
Goldswo rthy, Laura F.
Sept.13 , '52 Yosemit e ............ 99 Merced ···--··-······.80
Angeles ........89
Gowen, Laura ·····-·········Jan. 31, '48 Palestin e ............351 Los
own ........80
Grant, Lillian A........- .....Oct. 6, '32 Georget own -··· 25 Georget
....-81
Green. Elizabet h• ..... _.June 29, '54 Orienta l ..............144 San Francisc o

3i3

Age
Town
No.
Admitted Lodge
Nt1111e
·--····-·88
City
Yuba
70
..........
se
Enterpri
'36
Griffith, Rose L ...·--····.Ma r. 26,
········-····-78
Guthrie, Rena ............._.May 27, '52 Buckey e ···-··-·····195 Winters
Orisi ········-··-·-··-·90
Hamilto n, Mariana • ... .Aug. 12, '53 Orisi ···············-··.383
San Francisc o ......79
Harris, Louise C.............Feb. 19, '33 Pacific ···········-··'s-·136
o ......93
Harrison , Martha ..........Nov. 19, '52 King Solomon 260 San Francisc
·86
Hawkin s, Louisa ..........June 26, '48 Fruitval e ............336 Oakland ··-···········
·83
······-···-Jose
San
10
····-···
Jose·····
San
'25
10,
Aug.
..............
Marie
Hazard,
................89
Henders on, Margare t ..Sept. 23, '50 Oroville ···-·········103 Oroville
Monica ...-62
Hepburn , Catherin e ......Apr. 7, '52 Palisade s ............637 Santa
o ......70
Hewitt, Frieda Z .............Nov. 7, '46 King Solomon 's 260 San Francisc
85
--··-·-Oakland
_244
............
Alcatraz
'54
16,
_Jan.
....
h•
Higuera , Elizabet
9
-·-··----6
n
Stockto
68
....
Star
Morning
'54
27,
.Jan.
Hinze, Henriet ta M.•...
Hollis, Maybell e J .........Feb. 11, '53 Francis K.
Shattuc k ........571 Berkele y ···---····'1 0
a ..............74
Hoover, Emma Jane........Feb. 5, '50 Pasaden a ............272 Pasaden
......89
Huber, Tillie A. ......- .......July 7, '49 King Solomon 's 260 San Francisc o···-···78
Los Angeles
Hudson, Millie• ····-···-.F eb. 17, '54 Westlak e ............392
nto ···--88
Hyatt, Nannie S .....- .....Feb. 13, '48 Washing ton ........ 20 Sacrame
o ......63
Hyman, Loretta ............Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisc
-·-·---87
nd
Richmo
.347
...........
y
McKinle
'31
1,
.June
......
...............
Mary
Jack,
........82
Jacobse n, Josephin e• ..June 25, '54 So. Californ ia ....278 Los Angeles o .... _82
Francisc
San
360
....
o
Francisc
San
'48
10,
.
Jebe, Elise ·············-······.Mar
····-······85
Jones, Edith ·····-·-···· ······.Jan. 2, '53 Victorvi lle ..........634 Victorviylle···---···8
1
Jones, Elsie L........._.......Jan. 26, '49 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkele
San Jose ................82
Kapp, Carrie E....- ..- .....July 16, '49 San Jose .............. 10
... _...72
Kauffma n, Eda B ........ _.. .Dec. 7, '46 Alex. Gr. Bell...59 5 Los Angeles
····--···8 5
Kaufma nn, Augusta ... .Mar. 19, '48 East Bay .......- ...489 Berkele y
4
Kautenb erg, Caroline ..Nov. 23, '49 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkele y ·········-···8
·.374 San Francisc o - ....77
Keenan, Effie -·-·---...July 17, '33 Jewell ·-··-····-................78
Kendric k, Josephin e ... .Aug. 5, '49 Oakland ..............188- OaklandFrancisc
o..73
King, Catherin e L ...........Feb. 2, '52 Francis Drake .... 376 S. San
···-···79
Angeles
Los
319
........
eck
Hollenb
'53
14,
Feb.
............
Lizzie
,
Kingsley
·······-··-···84
Krejcik, Otilia ......._. ___.Jan. 25, '49 Sequoia ···-·······-349 Oakland
435 San Francisc o ......79
Krejcik, Rose ···-····-·····Feb. 16, '48 Fairmou nt ...........224
Bakersfi eld -··-···78
Kutzner , Estella ..........Aug. 29, '51 Bakersfi eld .......
Lane, Edith B ...........- ....Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ···-··-·80
Langenb erger, Conradi ne
Apr. 26, '47 Jewell ·-······-····--374 San Francisc o - ....89
Angeles ........66
Larter, Gertrud e M .......Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ·····-········.405 Los Francisc
o ......70
Lasman , Esther ····--····_ Jan. 10, '52 Bay City ·····-··-·-526 San
·79
···-·-···Auburn
16
.
...............
Eureka
'53
29,
·-··.Dec.
•·······--·D.
Mae
Lee,
____82
Leland, Sarah F ...............Jan. 5, '53 East Gate ......... _.290 Los Angeles
·76
Mackenz ie, May W .......June 30, '41 Bay View ............401 Oakland ·······-·-·n
Souther
L.
De
Mattie
y,
Macread
Californ ia ......278 Los Angeles ···-···91
Jan. 10, '53
--84
Maltby, Sarah E .............Dec. 16, '39 Chico ··--·--- 111 Chico -nd
~-------82
-·431 Richmo
Mayfield , Mary ............Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ···········-·
____ 77
MacAlli ster, Emily F .. .Aug. 19, '52 Larchm ont ........614 Los Angeles····-···79
Rosa
McCord, Zidana M ..... _..Oct. 18, '46 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa
o ......78
McCully , Gertie M .......June 16, '46 Educato r ............554 San Francisc
-·-·--92
Mccurry , Alice ______ .Nov. 27, '48 Union ··--····- -- 58 Sacrame nto
···-····-- '18
McDowell, Alice M .......Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ·····-···-.244 Oakland
···66
···--····-··
Avalon
524
..
Island
Catalina
'48
2,
June
......
A.
Marion
,
McGarry
..•...94
o
Francisc
San
44
···-···---1
Oriental
'52
24,
May
.......
M
Mary
es,
McGinn
Alamed a ....____ 79
Mciver, Ella W..·--········· ·July 9, '48 Oak Grove -···-··.215
San Francisc o ......78
166
............
r
Excelsio
'34
28,
.Nov.
....
_
•...
A
Lucy
McLean ,
Angeles ...... _78
Los
45
···-····-···4
Wilshire
'52
4,
Nov.
Meerdin k, Gertrud e ......
51 Colfax ···········-·····-'15
Merrill, Ivy L .....- ....... _Jan. 25, '41 lliinoist own .......296
San Diego ···-··-'18
Meyer, Annie J ...... _.......June 2, '51 Silver Gate .......
Monro, Edith C-··---- .Mar. 16, '46 Alpha ··--·······- -431 Richmo nd -·---88

344

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Murrell, Catherine ........Jan 12, '52 John Marshall ..636 Beverly Hills ......75
Moore, Louise l .............Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............300 Redlands ..............73
Morden, Florence• ..........Apr. 1, '54 Golden Rule ......479 San Jose·············--'"'
Mullen, Charlotte E .......Jan. 11, '52 Mendocino ..........179 Mendocino ········---93
Murray, Florence A •......Apr. 17, '53 Westwood ........_501 Westwood ·····-·---81
Needham, Esther A ......June 4, '52 Alamo ···········-·····122 Walnut Creek ......92
Neilsen, Este M...·-····-·····Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ···········---'11
O'Brien, Mary T. • ............Mar. 8, '54 Elsinore ..............289 Elsinore ··········---«10
O'Donnell, Florence D ...June 1, '43 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............91
Olsen, Minnie ................May 28, '52 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ................_71
Osborn, Orpha E. • ........Sept. 29, '53 Franklin ·········-···143 Courtland .......-81
Otis, Ethel E ....- .............Mar. 22, '48 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego .........-71
Paige, Hilma* ..............Mar. 15, '54 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............88
Palmer, Elizabeth F .... .Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................87
Palmer, Stella L............July 30, '52 San Gabriel ........546 San Gabriel· ........80
Pankow, Catherine ......Apr. 29, '29 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......89
Parizek, Grace D ...........Jan. 11, '49 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........82
Peacock, Katie C...........Mar. 15, '47 Alcatraz ...............244 Oakland ···-·-··-----11
Peairs, Lillian W•..........Feb. 11, '35 Normal Heights ..632 San Diego .........-.85
Pearce, Carrie C.............Oct. 11, '46 Oakland ·········-···188 Oakland ...- ...........98
Perger, Eva ....................Sept. 8, '45 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ..........._...7'1
Pitts, Adelaide S. • ..........Feb. 5, '54 Mendocino ..........179 Mendocino ............V4
Powell, Belle M.............May 15, '50 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......88
Prentice, Rose ....._.......June 30, '45 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............85
Preslar, Ida ---·······--·...Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz ·····-······.244 Oakland ···-······---ft
Randolph, Jeanette ......June 26, '51 Corcoran ............490 Corcoran ..............74
Ramsey, Hattie L .........June 23, '40 Monterey ............217 Monterey ..........-.93
Raymond, Lillian F .....Sept. 31, '39 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........85
Reasoner, Marie D .........July 21, '48 Normal Heights 632 San Diego ............'12
Robertson, Annette M...Aug. 1, '52 Morgan Hill ......463 Morgan Hill ... _...78
Robertso!!i_ Mary F ....,... Apr. 28, '46 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ... - .....81
Rounds, norence B.* ..June 12, '54 Jonathan ···-···....545 San Francisco ... _.82
Rudebeck, Anna ____.. __.Dec. 15, '48 Balder ...........- ...393 San Francisco ____ 82
Salter, Julia A.• ...- .........Jan. 5, '54 Crockett ·····-·······139 San Francisco ......84
Sandbo, Maude R. ....._.....Dec. 5, '52 Golden Rule _____479 San Jose ......·--···'14
Schwartz, Grace H .......July 12, '42 Arlington ............414 Los Angeles ........82
Schneider, Emma• ..........Oct. 1, '53 Park Boulevard..568 Oakland ................88
Seagrave, Edna R ...........May 17, '52 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............89
Seymour, Laura ..............Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu --····-----'16
Scott, Emma L ...............Aug. 27, '52 Arcata ..............-106 Arcata .........____83
Shanks, Ella ............... _...Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ·····---··· 21 Honolulu ...._,___..83
Smith, Mary• ...- ...........May 26, '54 Oakland ............-188 Oakland .........- ...'10
Snyder, Amanda G .......Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield --..--..81
Sparrowe, Constance ..Sept. 27, '40 Excelsior ............168 San Francisco ......88
Sprague, Julia ..............June 29, '47 Acorn ···---------494 Oakland ................88
Steele, Fannie T ...........June 26, '50 Hanford ·····-···-··2'19 Hanford ...........- ...88
Stroud, Laura L ...............June 2, '37 Vacaville ............134 Vacaville ..............80
Swain, Sarah C .................Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ···-····-···'15
Taylor, Clara B ...............Apr. 2, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......93
Therkelsen, Anna M.......Nov. 4, '52 Alisal ..................321 Pleasanton ..........85
Thompson, Celia ....~ .....Dec. 16, '33 Eden .................... 113 San Leandro ........83
Vale, Olive B .................June 18, '36 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......97
Ward, Jennie F ............... Sept. 1, '50 Dunsmuir ..........29'1 Dunsmuir ............89
Wharton, Mary C...........Mar. 20, '50 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................78
Walker, Barbara E .........Jan. 9, '53 South Park ........562 Los Angeles ........ 80
Wilcox, Edith ..................May 3, '36 Durant ···-·········--268 Berkeley ..............86
Williams, Annie F ...........Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......75
Williams, Eda M...........Nov. 10, '51 Park ..........- ...-.449 San Francisco ......73
Williams, Louise A. ......Feb. 16, '49 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ..............79
Wilson, Mary 1.•............May 21, '54 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ·--··-·-80

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

345

Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Winterberg, Clara ..........Mar. 1, '50 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......93
Wisewell, Evelyn• .........Feb. 18, '54 California --···-·-- 1 San Francisco ......80
Witham, Bess T .............Aug. 25, '51 Lancaster ............437 Lancaster ..............71
Whittaker, Ada H ...........Oct. 8, '52 Bay View ... _ ......401 .Oakland ................80
Woebcke Gretchen ......Dec. 30, '52 Hermann ............127 San Francisco ......84
Zeehand~laar, Mary E ...Jan. 12, '48 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........83

Deaths of WOMEN-1953·1954
Name
Died Lodge
No. Town
Age
Bodutch, Johanna R .....Jan. 19, '53 Alameda ···-····--167 Centerville ·---·····80
Coates, Maude F ....- .....Mar. 26, '54 Clear Lake ........183 Lower Lake - ......85
Davis, Anna C...........- ...-.May 6, '54 Bakersfield ···---224 Bakersfield ..........'13
Eckstein, Emily C .........July 23, '54 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ..............8'1
Enos, Nellie A ................Sept. 7, '53 Salinas ................204 Salinas ··--·-··-----91
Fetrow, Dora L .............. .Dec. 30, '53 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ···-·--·-84
Forbes, Anna E .............June 19, '54 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ........80
Fortin, Martha L ...............Oct. 6, '53 Oakland ... _.........188 Oakland ................82
Henderlong, Magdalena A.
Feb. 24, '54 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ......--..81
Hill, Catherine A ..........Dec. 22, '53 Sunset ·-·····-·····352 Los Angel~ -·-···'14
Lambdin, Mary E ....... _....Dec. 8, '53 Occidental .......... 22 S~n :irrancISco _ ...87
Lindsay, Mary J ........... Sept. 29, '53 Visalia ..............-128 Visalia .... _............80
Mears, Margaretta T .....May 24, '54 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........'13
Melanphy, Isobel M.......Feb. 27, '54 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ·····-··-·85
Newman, Susanna ........Dec. 28, '53 Antioch ....·-···---1'15 Antioch .-····--..-·93
Phillips, Ida M...---·····Sept. 22, '53 Pajaro ... - .............110 Watsc;inville ______..89
Shimeall, Charlotte ......Aipr. 14, '54 Rising Light _____397 Huntingto~ Park 84
Smith, Laura F ............ -.Mar. 10, '54 Educator ··-···----554 San Franc!Sco ..- ..82
Spaulding, Lillian ···-····.Aug. 4, '53 Parnassus ........-388 San FrancISco ......83
Sutherland, Charlotte M.
Aug. 8, '53 Oakland ········-·--188 Oakland .....- ..--...80
Thomas, Elizabeth ......Sept. 18, '53 Santa Cruz -····-- 38 Santa. Cruz ··---·-·!5
Williams, Mary C ...........Oct. 10, '53 Holtville ............-425 Holtville ···-··----1
Withdrawals--WOMEN-2
Name
Date
Lodge
No.
Town
' Age
Gardner, May A....._ .....Oct. 11, '53 Mission .....- .........169 San Francisco -·-·~
Albers, Zoe J ............- ...July 30, ·54 Richmond --·····.375 San Francisco ......5

346

DECOTO CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND, 1953-1854
No. Lodge
1
2
3
5
9
10
12
13
16
19
20
21
22
23
24
26
27
30
32
35
37
38
40
41
43
45
46
51
57
58
61
64
70
79
81
84
87
93
95
99
101
106
110
111
117
120
122
126
127
128
129
131
134
136
139
143
144
146
166
167

California ···--····--··---'
Western Star..................
Tehi;t~a ............................
Bemcia ···············-···········
Corinthian ......................
San Jose..........................
Yount ···········-·················
Nevada ............................
Eureka ............................
San Joaquin ..................
Wash~gton -·················
Hawanan ........................
Occidental ......................
Madison ..........................
Mariposa ........................
El. :qorado ......................
Tr1mty ............................
Golden Gate ..................
Gold Hill ·····-····-···········
Hiram ..............................
Howard ···············-·········
Santa Cruz ···············-···
Sacramento ....................
Martinez ..........................
Mount Moriah .•............
Crescent ..........................
Texas···-··················-·······
Illinoistown ....................
Santa Rosa ....................
Union ··········-·····-·········
Live Oak ···-··-···············
Natoma···-············-·········
Enterprise ......................
Humboldt ........................
Yolo ···-·····························
Vesper ···-··············-·······
Naval ···········-·················
St. Helena ......................
Henry Clay ....................
Yosemite ·······-······-·······
Clay···-··-·························
Arcata ..............................
Pajaro ..............................
Chico ···········-···················
Concord ..........................
Fidelity •...........................
Alamo ..............................
Lafayette ........................
Hermann ........................
Visalia ·······-······-·············
Nicolaus ..........................
Woodbridge....................
Vacaville ........................
Pacific ···········-·················
Crockett ·······-·················
Franklin ·····-····-·············
Oriental ···········-···-···-···
Abell ................................
Excelsior ···-···················
Alameda ·····-··-····-·········

Amount
50.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
50.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
12.50
12.50
25.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
10.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
5.00

No. Lodge
168
169
175
180
181
187
188
191
192
193
194
196
198
199
201
203
206
208
210
211
212
217
218
219
220
222
224
225
226
228
236
237
240
241
245
246
247
253
254
256
258
259
261
262
264
265
267
268
269
272
274
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
290

R~d~ood City ..............
M1ss1on ····················-······
Antioch ···-·······················
Petaluma ....................... .
Russian River ................
Keith ···········-···················
Oakland ..........................
Marin ............................. .
Santa Barbara ................
Ferndale ..........................
Mountain View ............. .
San Simeon···············-···
Wilmington ................... .
Hartley ........................... .
Silveyville ......................
Confidence ......................
Stanislaus ......................
Rio Vista ........................
Friendship ......................
San Benito ..................... .
South San Francisco... .
Monterey ·······-···············
Mosaic ..............................
Speranza ltaliana ..........
Downey ..........................
Roseville ....................... .
Bakersfield ..................... .
Brooklyn ....................... .
San Mateo ..................... .
Athens ............................
Hills Ferry·····-···············
Guadalupe ..................... .
Colusa ···-··-·····················
Santa Ana ···-················
Laurel ·······-··-··-·············
Pomona ···-·····················
Fresno·······-··-·················
Landmark ......................
Reading ···-······-·············
Lodi·······-·························
Penrhyn ···········-·············
Evergreen ......................
Tuscan ............................
Lompoc ........................... .
Hesperian ..................... .
Orland ···-·······················
Galt ······-·······-··-·············
Durant ·······-······-···········
Olive Branch ............... .
Pasadena ···--·················
Arroyo ............................
Southern California ....
Hanford ·····-···················
Madera ··················-········
Mount Shasta ............... .
Calayomi ........................
South West ....................
San Miguel ................... .
Paso Robles ....................
East Gate ·····-····--··-·····

347

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Amount
10.00
25.00
15.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
50.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00

25.00

No. Lodge

Amount

No. Lodge

Amount

5.00
10.00 434 Maricopa ·-·····················
292 Los Gatos ····-·····--·········
10.00
435
10.00
Fairmount
·················-···
Orange
Grove
...............
.
293
5.00
10.00 440 Standard ·-··--··-···········
299 Liberty ···········-··········-···
5.00
441
10.00
Coronado
·-·····················
301 Ontario ···········-····-····-···
10.00
447 Torrance .......................•
10.00
305 Azusa ·····-·······················
10.00
5.00 448 Mount Diablo ..,.----········
306 Ashlar···········-·················
5.00
449
7.50
Park
·············-·················
313 Tehachapi ···········-·········
15.00
460 Mount Oso ....................
2.50
Temescal
.......................
.
314
10.00
5.00 461 Argonaut ........................
315 Norwalk ·····-····-·············
5.00
462 Paul Revere ···········-·····
5.00
Fall
brook
................•.......
317
10.00
Libertas ......................... .
466
5.00
321 Alisal ···············-···············
20.00
25.00 467 Culver City ·-·················
322 Alhambra ···········-···········
5.00
Rockridge ....•.................
468
10.00
Corona
•....•......................
324
10.00
471
5.00
Delta·····-···-···················
326 Needles ............................
5.00
15.00 477 Temblor ......................... .
327 Long Beach ....................
15.00
Thousand Oaks ........... .
478
5.00
328 Redondo ·····-··········-·······
10.00
10.00 479 Golden Rule -···············
331 Pacific Grove ..................
5.00
10.00 481 Mt. Davidson ·········-·····
336 Fruitvale ·····-·················
10.00
10.00 483 Bell ..................................
337 Carquinez ···-······-·········
10.00
25.00 484 Albert Pike ....................
341 Oxnard ............................
25.00
12.50 486 Caledonia ·················-···
342 San Fernando ···-···········
10.00
12.50 487 Vallejo ·-·························
344 Starr King ..•...................
5.00
12.50 488 Patterson ........................
346 Palo Alto ........................
5.00
15.00 489 East Bay ....................... .
347 McKinley ........................
7.50
10.00 491 Woodstock ·-··--···········
348 San Bernardino ............
10.00
10.00 493 Atascadero ·-····-···········
349 Sequoia ...•........................
10.00
10.00 494 Acorn ............................. .
351 Palestine ....................... .
5.00
17.50 500 Roosevelt ........................
353 Pinole ............................. .
10.00
25.00 502 Harbor •...........................
356 Mill Valley ....................
10.00
12.50 503 Point-·············-···············
360 San FrancISco ................
15.00
El Segundo ................... .
507
7.20
Charity
.....•......................
362
10.00
2.50 510 Cupertino ..................... .
365 Willits ..............................
10.00
511
12.50
Sunnyvale
···········-·········
366 Las Palmas ·······-···········
7.50
Cahuenga
.....................
.
513
25.00
South
Pas~dena
...........
.
367
15.00
514
10.00
Argonne·······-·················
Park
...................
.
Ocean
369
15.00
10.00 516 Taft ..................................
370 Amity······························
20.00
Piedmont
.......................
.
521
25.00
Le
Progres
de
l'Oceanie
371
5.00
George
Washington
...
.
525
5.00
374 Jewel····························-·
10.00
Bay
City
.......................
.
526
12.50
Richmond
.....................
.
375
10.00
10.00 527 Covenant ············-········376 Francis Drake ................
5.00
Alexandria
...................•
531
27.50
377 Artesia ·······-··········-·······
20.74
Belvedere
.....................
.
539
15.00
379 Fillmore ···-·····················
5.00
5.00 541
382 Highland Park •.............
10.00
546
10.00
El
Centro
.......................
.
384
5.00
10.00 550 Seaport ..........................
388 Parnassus ........................
5.00
50.00 551 Lakeshore ·················-···
393 Balder ·············---···········
10.00
5.00 552 Semper Virens ..............
397 Rising Light ..................
10.00
20.00 558 Point Firmin ······-··········
400 Burlin~ame ....................
10.00
10.00 561 East San Diego ..............
401 Bay View ........................
20.00
10.00 574 S. W. Hackett ·······-·······
402 Brawley ·······-········-·······
10.00
5.00 576 El Cajon Valley ............
403 Yerba Buena ········-···-·
25.00
10.00 578 Progressive ....................
407 La Mesa ..........................
5.00
25.00 579 Warren G. Harding......
409 Honolulu ............•........•..
5.00
10.00 580 Santa Maria ..................
410 Charter Rock ................
5.00
10.00 581 Security ·'···········-····-·····
411 Perris ·-···························
25.00
10.00 589 Kauai ···················-·········
412 Calexico -···········-···-·····
10.00
10.00 590 Compass ........................
415 Silver Trowel •...............
10.00
15.00 593 All States ......................
421 Inglewood .....................•
25.00
Service
...........................
.
594
5.00
426 Midway ···-····-····-······-·
15.00
Alexander
Graham
Bell
595
5.00
429 Pittsburg -···-······-·········
15.00
15.00
596
Guardian
·-··········-··-····
431 Alpha ·-················-·········
10.00
603
25.00
Hammonton
.•..........•.....
Dimond
·-············-·········
433

M:~ia~~~f~--~~:~-~-~

348

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. Lodge
Amount No. Lodge
Amount
609 Provident ......................
12.50 Santa Cruz ........................ 44
2.50
. 620 Point Loma ....................
10.00 Whittier ··········-·-··- -····· 51
10.00
621 The Gardens ············-···
15.00 Auburn ············-··············· 52
5.00
634 Victorville ·······-······-·····
15.00
5.00 Hollywood ........................ 56
635 Riverside -················-···
15.00 San Pedro .......................... 60
5.00
637 Palisades ........................
10.00 Santa Monica Bay............ 61
5.00
638 Indian Rock ..................
10.00 Calvary .............................. 62
10.00
645 A. F. E. Irwin................
10.00 Coalinga-A venal ............ 72
5.00
648 Damascus ......................
5.00
650 La Brea ·······-··-···-· ·-···
10.00
Total ....................................$225.00
661 Malta ..............................
5.00
665 Kaweah ..........................
10.00
668 San Gorgonio ................
10.00
669 John P. Jarman............
5.00
673 Far West ······-··--···- ···
5.00
675 Modesto ..........................
5.00
676 Willow Glen ..................
5.00
CHAPTER S. R. A. M.
680 Carmel ······-···--··· ·-·····
5.00
681 Dos Palos........................
7.50 Chapter
No. Amount
686 Albany ............................
2.50
688 Oildale ............................
5.00 Sacrament o .•.................... 3 $ 5.00
690 San Carlos ......................
2.50
10.00 Nevada .............................. 6
691 Indian Wells Valley......
10.00 Cyrus ·····-··············-·····-··· 15
5.00
711 Rim of the World..........
2.50
5.00 Grass Valley .................... 18
Petaluma
....................
......
718 San Lorenzo Valley......
22
2.50
5.00
719 Estero ..............................
5.00
5.00 Delta .................................. 27
720 Mineral King ................
2.50
5.00 Napa .................................. 30
725 Saint John's ..................
5.00
2.50 Martinez ............................ 31
No. California Research
5.00
5.00 Naval .................................. 35
Siloam ................................ 37
5.00
Total ........................$2,971.48 Santa Cruz ·····-··-··-··-····· 38
2.50
Visalia ................................ 44
12.50
Santa Rosa ·····-···-··-······· 45
5.00
Humboldt ····················-··· 52
5.00
Ukiah ······-···-···· ····--··· 53
25.00
Keystone ·············-·-······· 56
7.50
Colusa
....................
............ 60
5.00
COMMAN DERIES, K. T.
San Luis ............................ 62
2.50
5.00
Commanderg
No. Amount St. Helena .......................... 63
Doric .................................. 66
5.00
California .......................... 1 $ 12.50 Riverside .......................... 67
2.50
Sacrament o ...................... 2
5.00 Crown ..........•..................... 72
5.00
Oroville ............................ 5
10.00 Hanford ···············-···-··-· 74
25.00
Nevada .............................. 6
7.50 Pomona .............................. 76
5.00
Marysville ........................ 7
5.00
5.00 Ferndale ............................ 78
San Jose ............................ 10
5.00 Calaveras .......................... 83
2.50
Chico .................................. 12
5.00 San Pedro .......................... 89
5.00
. Santa Rosa····- ··-··--·· 14
5.00 Whittier -··········-···- ···-··· 91
10.00
Ventura ............................ 18
5.00
10.00 Fidelity .............................. 96
Naval ................................ 19
5.00 San Gabriel ·-···-··--··-·· ·100
5.00
Watsonvill e ...................... 22
2.50
5.00 Marin ................................102
St. Bernard ...................... 23
7.50 Mill Valley ......................108
5.00
5.00 El Centro -··-··-··-··-·· -···109
Colusa --··-····--·· -··-····· 24
5.00
Visalia ................................ 26
12.50 South Pasadena ·········---112
5.00
San Luis Obispo.............. 27
5.00
10.00 Coalinga ............................114
Riverside .......................... 28
5.00 Sebastopol ........................11'7
5.00
Pasadena .......................... 31
10.00 Huntingto n Park .....:......127
2.50
Mt. Shasta ........................ 32
10.00 Searchligh t -···················133
10.00
Ukiah ................................ 33
15.00 Wilmingto n ......................141
5.00
Eureka .............................. 35
Havasue
....................
........148
2.50
5.00
Southern California ........ 37
10.00
San Francisco .................. 41
5.00
Total ·······················-······--.$231.00

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CHAPTER S. O. E. S.

COUNCILS. R. & S. M.

Council
No. Amount
Sacrament o ...................... 1 $ 5.00
Marysville ........................ 3
5.00
Gateway ............................ 13
5.00
Pasadena .......................... 16
5.00
Santa Cruz ........................ 17
2.50
Siskiyou ............................ 24
2.50
Alhambra .......................... 25
2.50
Pacific ................................ 37
5.00
San Fernando Valley...... 40
5.00
Coalinga ............................ 41
5.00
Harbor ···-··-········· ·····-··· 45
5.00
Redwood ............................ 46
5.00
Total ··----- -··-·-' 52.50
MISCELLA NEOUS
Amount

University Square Club..............$ 5.00
633 Club ........................................ 10.00
Vernon C. Noble -·····-·-······- ··· 2.50
John Sexton & Co....................... 5.00
Columbia Acacia Club................ 10.00
Frances Seligson ........................ 5.00
Walter A. Sloan .......................... 25.00
Cleveland C. Cochran................ 2.50
Irma Rhodes ................................ 12.50
Charles F. Drucker.... .................. 5.00
C. R. Beach.................................... 2.00
Total ----~----·--··---.$84.IO

349

Chapter

No. Amount
San Rafael -······-······- -.215 $ 10.00
10.00
Mill Valley ··--··-·······- ··.219
5.00
Jewel ····-·······-··- ··-·-····.238
Elvesta ..............................293
2.00
Total ---··-- ·---.._..$ 27.00
A.&A.S. R.
Amount
Fresno Lodge of Perfection ....$ 50.00
Oakland Bodies ........................ 25.00
Peninsula Bodies ...................... 20.00
California Lodge of Perfection 12.50

Total -··-··-··--- -·----.$10 '1.50
DISTRICT OFFICERS
ASSOCIAT ION
Amount

420th District --·-··--- ___.
504th District .............................. 5.00
5.00
550th District .............................. 10.00
562nd District .............................. 5.00
614th District .............................. 25.00
Total

-··-··----·--·----..$50.00

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cl-llLDREN AT COVINA HOME

AgeTown
No.
Admitted Lodge
Name
Larsen, Cherie ·-···-··-··- --6-24-62 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ·-------10
Larsen, Sandra ·······---·····-6-24-52 Claremont ..........436 Claremont -·-··--13
Johnson, Kathleen ................9-8-49 Claremont ..........436 Claremont ............15
Farmer, Susan• ···---·-···-···8-5-53 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles --12
Hacquebord, Patricia ..........1-26-52 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................13
Hacquebord, Suzanne ........1-26-52 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........13
Harpster, Adrian ..................6-28-53 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........11
Harris, Bonnie ......................4-28-51 Culver City ........467 Los Angeles ........16
Johnson, Judith ......................9-8-49 Covina ................334 Los Angeles ........14
Leach, Madelyn .................... 10-1-50 Mizpah ·······-·······378 Santa Monica ......17
Lee, Linda• ·······-············---·10-18-53 Covina ···········-··-334 Los Angeles ........11
Lee, Patricia• ......................10-18-53 Ascot ....................538 Los Angeles ........10
Melton, Josephine• ..............12-5-53 Eagle Rock ........422 Los Angeles ........17
Neilsen, Darlene ....................7-1-52 Culver City ........467 Covina .................. 6
Neilsen, Linda ........................7-1-52 Palisades ···-·······637 Cov.ina ------11
Offinga, Elinor ·······--··-··-··-8-4-44 Eagle Rock ........422 Los Angeles ........ 18
Ostrander, Carol ···-····-·····--9-14-51 Big Bear ..............617 lone ----·-··-··--···17
Ostrander, Patricia ..............9-14-51 Big Bear ..............617 Santa Paula ........ 8
Rose, Lorna ···-··-······-··---···9-9-50 Temple City ......612 Big Bear Lake ....14
Weist, Nancy ........................8-25-48 Manchester ........585 Temple City ........10
Williams, Jeannette ..............6-2-43 Ione ...................... 80 Los Angeles ........15
Yungling, Barbara• ..........10-10-53 Santa Paula ......291 Big Bear Lake ....11

July 31, 1954 .
Boys-36
•Indicates admission during current year.
Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
Anderson Raymond ............9-11-51 Taft ......................516 Taft ........................lt
Ashurst, Larry ···-··-··············-2-2-47 Magnolia ·-·-·······242 Santa Barbara ....14
Barham, Earle ......................6-27-61 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........ 9
Barham, Jerry ·······--·-····----6-27-51 Moneta ···········----405 Los Angeles ........ 7
Beard, Paul ···-··--·-······-··-··-8-5-46 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..........._115
Readmitted..................3-29-53
.
Beard, Robert ······-···-······-·--8-5-46 Pasadena,_ ............272 Pasadena ···------13
Readmitted. ......- .........3-23-53
Beard, William ·······-------·--8-5-46 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ···----1'1
Readmitted..................3-16-53
Beckman, Charles ..............11-12-49 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ................13
Burkhalter, Charles ............3-26-45 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ........15
Case1 Arthur ..........................9-24-46 W.- Los Angeles..373 W. Los Angeles....15
Darhng, Truman ..................1-28-48 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........11
Deemer, Robert ......................1-6-52 Ocean Park ........369 Ocean Park ···-····-14
Eller, Harold ........................6-23-44 Meridian ............667 Glendale ..............18
Farmer, Richard• ..................8-5-53 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ................11
Fifield, Jerald ........................8-31-50 Benevolence ......631 Los Angeles ........15
Finney, Charles ....................7-5-49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach ..........13
Finney, Michael ....................7-5-49 Neptune ..............619 Long Beach ..........11
Flannigan, Richard ..............1-28-50 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park ·-11
Foster, Kenneth ···-··-···-··-··7-8-51 Signal ········- ·······543 Long Beach ......-12
Hacquebord, Charles ..........1-26-52 Claremont _ .......436 Claremont -·---- 11
Harris, Earl .......... _ ...............4-28-51 Arcadia .... _____547 Arcadia ......---17
Irland, Lynn ··-·--·-··-··----9-15-52 All States ............593 Long Beach .......-13
Joy, Harry ···- ·--··-··- ·····--8-10-47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........12
Joy, William ···-··-···-··-·····--6-15-47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach .....,....17
Kilpatrick, Charles ..............3-16-52 Ramona ········----457 Monterey Park .... 7
Kilpatrick, David ................3-16-52 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 7
Kilpatrick, Paul ·········-····---3-16-52 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 7
Kingman, Donald* ..............10-7-53 Cahuenga ---------513 Hollywood ............ 9
Kingman, Jack• ..................10-7-53 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood ............ 5
Moodyj Laurence• ..............8-15-53 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach ..15
Orth, erry• ..........................7-23-54 Natoma .............. 64 Folsom .................. 8
Orth, Thomas• ......................7-23-54 Natoma .............. 64 Folsom ..................10
Place, Barry ............................8-9-47 Burlingame ........400 Burlingame ..........14
Platt, Lawrence ....................8-20-52 San Bernardino 348 San Bernardino .. 9
Wylie, Kenneth ....................6-18-52 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........10
Yungling, Douglas• ····-··-10-10-53 Santa Paula ..... .291 - Santa Paula ........10

Girls--30
•Indicates admission during current year.
Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
Achenbach, Patricia ............9-11-48 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles ........12
Allison Linda ......................6-17-45 Ashlar ................306 Colton ....................14
Barham, Patricia ................6-27-51 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........10
Barnett, Marie ......................7-19-52 Acorn ..................494 Oakland ................11
Cle~entsi...Linda• ................10-7-53 C!lhuenga ..........513 Hollywood ............14
Darbng, M.ary ·········-··········8-26-46 Liberty ........... _..299 Santa Clara ......-15
Deemer, Linda ···-··--···········1-6-52 Ocean Park ........369 Ocean Park ···-·-18
Farmer, Judith• -----·-···8-5-153 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ···---14

351

Departed During the Year August 1, 1953 to July 31, 1954
Boys-i"
(At time of Departure)
Age
Departed
Admitted
N B111e
Achenbach, Howard.......... 9/11/49............. 11/18/53...............................10
Armstrong, Robert............. 12/21/47...........9/13/53 .................................16
Ashurst, Ellis........., ............. 2/2/47............... 9/12/53.................................16
Emery, Jack.........................6/20/53 ............. 5/22/54....................- ........... 7
Lohr, Charles.......................6/14/52............. 1/26/54................................. 6
Lohr, Donald....................... 6/7/52 ............... 1/26/54................................. 8
Mason, David....................... 7/2/44............... 2/9/54................................... 15

Girls-5
(At time of Departure)
Age
Departed
Admitted
Allison, Patricia• ................ 4/1/45 ...............6/16/54................................. 18
Decker, Shirley-·-··············1/26/52............. 2/19/54.................................10
Lohr, Frances.......... _ ......... 6/14/52............. 1/26/54................................. 11
Lohr, Grace.......................... 6/14/52.............1/26/54........................ _....... 13
Pease, Barbara Joanne• .... 7/18/47 ............. 6/16/54....... _........................17
Name

•Graduate

352

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

COVINA CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND, 1953-1954
No. Lodge
1 California -·-·--·-'
2 Western Star ............... .
3 Tehama ·············-··-·······
9 Corinthian ..................... .
10 San Jose·····················-···
12 Yount ·······-·····················
13 Nevada ·-·························
16 Eureka ............................
17 La Parfaite Union........
19 San Joaquin ······-··········
20 Wash~n ....................
21 Hawanan ·············-····-···
22 Occidental ......................
23 Madison ·············-···········
24 Mariposa ·-··-······-·········
26 El Dorado ···-·················
27 Trinity ·-·························
30 Golden Gate •.................
32 Gold Hill ·············-·········
35 San Diego ......................
37 Howard ..........................
38 Santa Cruz ....................
40 Sacramento ....................
41 Martinez ....................... .
44 Mount Moriah ..............
45 Crescent ..........................
46 Texas ···············-·············
51 Illinoistown ..................
57 Santa Rosa ············-······
58 Union ·························-·61 Live Oak ·············-·········
64 Natoma ..........................
70 Enterprise ·-··············-···
79 Humboldt ......................
81 Yolo ·······-····-············-···
84 Vesper ·······················-···
87 Naval ..............................
93 St. Helena ......................
95 Henry Clay ................... .
99 Yosemite ....................... .
101 Clay ............................... .
104 Lexington ·-···················
106 Arcata ........................... .
110 Pajaro ·························-·
111 Chico ..............................
117 Concord ......................... .
122 Alamo ............................. .
126 Lafayette ........................
127 Hermann ........................
128 Visalia ·······················-···
129 Nicolaus ......................... .
131 Woodbridge ..................
134 Vacaville ·-·····················
136 Pacific ················-············
139 Crockett ..........................
143 Franklin ........................
144 Oriental ·············-······-···
146 Abell ............................... .
166 Excelsior ·············-·········
167 Alameda ···················-···

Amount
50.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
·5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
50.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
12.50
12.50
25.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
10.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
50.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
5.00

No. Lodge
168 R~d~ood City ·-·-········
169 M1ss1on ····-····-·--···-······
175 Antioch ..........................
180 Petaluma ···········-···········
181 Russian River ···········-···
187 Keith ............................ ..
188 Oakland ·······-········--·····
191 Marin ..............................
192 Santa Barbara ..............
193 Ferndale ·····-······-····-···
194 Mountain View ····-····
196 San Simeon ·········-··-·····
198 Wilmington·-······-···-···
199 Hartley ·······················-···
203 Confidence -···-···········
206 Stanislaus ······-··············
208 Rio Vista ······-···········-···
210 Friendship ·········-····-·····
211 San Benito ....................
212 South San Francisco....
217 Monterey ···········-···········
218 Mosaic ........................... .
219 Speranza Italiana ........
220 Downey ·······-·····-··········
222 Roseville ··················-····
224 Bakersfield ................... .
225 Brooklyn ........................
226 San Mateo -···········-·······
228 Athens ·······················-···
236 Hills Ferry ....................
237 Guadalupe ·-······-·········
241 Santa Ana··········-···-·····
245 Laurel ········-·····-···········
246 Pomona ..........................
247 Fresno ............................
253 Landmark ···········-·'--··
254 Reading .....................•....
256 Lodi ................................
258 Penrhyn ....•.....................
259 Evergreen ......................
261 Tuscan ............................
262 Lompoc ·············-···········
264 Hesperian ·········-······-···
265 Orland ............................
267 Galt ···········-················-···
268 Durant ·············-·············
269 Olive Branch ···········-···
272 Pasadena ........................
274 Arroyo ............................
278 Southern California .. ..
279 Hanford ......................... .
280 Madera ............................
281 Mount Shasta ................
282 Calayomi ........................
283 South West ..................•.
285 San Miguel ·-·········..··•···
286 Paso Robles ................. .
289 Elsinore ..........................
290 East Gate ........................
292 Los Gatos ···············-·····

Amount
10.00
25.00
15.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
50.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
25.00
10.00

No. Lodge
Amount
293 Orange Grove ................
10.00
299 Liberty ............................
10.00
10.00
301 Ontario ·············-······-···
305 Azusa ..............................
10.00
5.00
306 Ashlar ............................
7.50
313 Tehachapi ......................
2.50
314 Temescal ........................
5.00
315 Norwalk·······-···············"
5.00
317 Fallbrook ........................
81.00
319 Hollenbeck ....................
5.00
321 Alisa! ·-··-············-·········
25.00
322 Alhambra ···········-·········
10.00
324 Corona ............................
5.00
326 Needles ·····················-···
327 Long Beach ···············-···
15.00
328 Redondo ·-·····················
5.00
331 Pacific Grove ................
10.00
10.00
336 Fruitvale ·················-·····
10.00
337 Carquinez ..................... .
341 Oxnard ............................
25.00
12.50
343 San Fernando ................
12.50
344 Starr King ..................... .
12.50
346 Palo Alto ....................... .
347 McKinley ......................
15.00
348 San Bernardino ........... .
10.00
349 Sequoia ·--~·-··········-·······
10.00
10.00
351 Palestine ........................
17.50
353 Pinole ............................. .
25.00
356 Mill Valley ....................
12.50
360 San Francisco ................
7.20
362 Charity .•........................
2.50
365 Willits ·······················-···
12.50
366 Las Palmas ....................
25.00
367 South Pasadena·······-···
370 Amity ..............................
10.00
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie
25.00
374 Jewel ..............................
5.00
12.50
375 Richmond ..................... .
376 Francis Drake ..............
10.00
377 Artesia ........................... .
27.50
Mizpah
...........................
.
10.00
378
379 Fillmore ......................... .
15.00
382 Highland Park ..............
5.00
384 El Centro ....................... .
10.00
10.00
388 Parnassus ......................
50.00
393 Balder ···-·······················
394 University ...................... 137.00
5.00
397 Rising Light ··-·······-·····
400 Burlingame·-·················
20.00
401 Bay View ........................
10.00
10.00
402 Brawle~ ..........................
5.00
403 Yerba Buena ................
10.00
405 Monet a ........................... .
10.00
407 La Mesa ..........................
25.00
409 Honolulu ....................... .
10.00
410 Charter Rock ................
10.00
411 Perris ..............................
10.00
412 Calexico ..........................
10.00
414 Arlington ...................•....
10.00
415 Silver Trowel ................
46.32
416 Lindsay ......................... .
25.00
421 Inglewood ...............·-···

No. Lodge
426
428
429
431
433
434
435
440
441
447
448
449
460
461
462
466
467
468
471
477
478
479
481
483
484
486
487
488
489
491
493
494
499
500
502
503
507
510
511
513
514
516
520
521
525
526
527
531
535
539
540
541
543
546
548
550
551
552
558
561
574
576

Midway ···············-·········
San Dimas ·····-····-····-···
Pittsburg ·-··········-·········
Alpha ..............................
Hammonton ..................
Maricopa ........................
Fairmount ......................
Standard ........................
Coronado ........................
Torrance ....................... .
Mount Diablo ·········-···Park ···········-·················Mount Oso ···········-·········
Argonaut ........................
Paul Revere ················Libertas ..........................
Culver City ....................
Rockridge ······-··············
Delta ................................
Temblor ····················-····
Thousand Oaks ............
Golden Rule ..................
Mt. Davidson ................
Bell ..................................
Albert Pike ·--··········-···
Caledonia ......................
Vallejo ·····················-·····
Patterson ........................
East Bay ........................
Woodstock ....................
Atascadero ·-········-····-·
Acorn ···················--·······
Capital City ..................
Roosevelt ........................
Harbor ............................
Point ·······-·······················
El Segundo ....................
Cupertino ·······-······-·····
Sunnyvale ·······-····-·······
Cahuenga ......................
Argonne ..........................
Taft ..................................
Ionic ............................... .
Piedmont ....................... .
George Washington ....
Bay City ....................... .
Covenant··········-·············
Alexandria .................. ..
Alexander Hamilton... .
Belvedere ..................... .
Queen Beach ··········-···
Henry Morse Stephens
Signal ..............................
San Gabriel ................. .
Triangle ·····················-···
Seaport ..........................
Lakeshore ......................
Semper Virens ..............
Point Firmin ................. .
East San Diego ......•.......
S. W. Hackett............... .
El Cajon Valley........... .

353
Amount
5.00
25.00
5.00
15.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
15.00
15.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
200.00
20.74
15.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
75.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
10.00

35i

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.
578
580
581
589
590
592
593
594
595
596
603
609
619
620
621
634
635
637
638
643
645

648
650
661
665
668
669
673
674
675
676
680
681
686
687
688
690
691
711
718
719

720
725

Lodge

Progressive ....................
Santa Maria •.................
Security -··-····················
Kauai -··················-·······
Compass ···········-···········
Tujunga ---······················
All States ......................
Service ............................
Alexander Graham Bell
Guardian ·········-··-·········
Dimond -··-···················
Provident -···-·····-·······
Neptune-····-·················
Point Loma ....................
The Gardens ................. .
Victorville •.....................
Riverside ....................... .
Palisades ....................... .
Indian Rock ................. .
Alta Loma ......................
A. F. E. Irwin. ................ .
Damascus •.....................
La Brea·-·······················
Malta ............................. .
Kaweah ......................... .
San Gorgonio ·-·············
John P. Jarman............. .
Far West ....................... .
Los Cerritos ................. .
Modesto •.........................
Willow Glen ................. .
Carmel ..•.........................
Dos Palos ....................... .
Albany ........................... .
Vista -······························
Oildale ........................... .
San Carlos ..................... .
Indian Wells Valley..... .
Rim of the World ......... .
San Lorenzo Valley......
Estero ............................. .
Mineral King ·····-·······
Saint John's ................. .
No. California Research

Amount
25.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
21.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
15.00
10.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
50.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Total ·······-······----..$3,753.76

CHAPTERS, O. E. S.

CHAPTERS, R. A. M.

Chapter

No. Amount

Sacramento ·-········-··-····· 3 $ 5.00
2.50
Nevada ·-··-·······-·······-··· 6
5.00
Cyrus ···--·-··-··············· 15
2.50
Grass Valley ·····-···········- 18
2.50
Petaluma .......................... 22
5.00
27
.....•............................
Delta
2.50
Napa ·········-······················· 30
5.00
Martinez ....•....................... 31
5.00
Naval -··--··-··············-··· 35
5.00
Siloam---········-······-·- 37
2.50
Santa Cruz -···············-··· 38
12.50 .
Visalia ·-····························· 44
5.00
Santa Rosa ·······-··············· 45
10.00
Dixon ·······-······················· 48
5.00
Humboldt .......................... 52
25.00
Ukiah ···-··························· 53
7.50
Keystone ························- 56
5.00
Colusa ···--········-······-······· 60
2.50
San Luis ··························- 62
5.00
St. Helena .......................... 63
5.00
Doric .................................. 66
2.50
Riverside .......................... 67
5.00
Crown ................................ 72
25.00
Hanford ·············--··········· 74
5.00
Pomona .............................. 76
5.00
Ferndale -·························· 78
2.50
Calaveras .......................... 83
5.00
San Pedro ........................ 89
10.00
Whittier ............................ 91
5.00
Fidelity .............................. 96
5.00
San Gabriel •.....................100
2.50
Marin ····-·-····-···············102
5.00
Mill Valley ...................... 108
5.00
El Centro .......................-109
5.00
South Pasadena ..............112
5.00
Coalinga ·······-··············114
5.00
Sebastopol ........................117
2.50
Huntington Park ............ 127
10.00
Inglewood ···-·---·············131
10.00
Searchlight --·-··········-·-133
5.00
Wilmington ·····--·······---141
5.00
Havasue ·········-······-·········148
Total ···-···-·-···············--·-···$255.00
DISTRICT OFFICERS
ASSOCIATION

Amount

No. Amount
Chapter
Jasmine ............................ 145 $ 23.60
5.00
Colton ................................211
10.00
San Rafael ........................215
10.00
Mill Valley ........................219
5.00
Jewel ..................:............... 238
5.00
Chino Valley ....................330

1g:88

420th District ···-······-······-····-' 5.00
504th District ............................ 5.00
550th District ............................ 60.00
562nd District ............................ 5.00
568th District ............................ 25.00
606th District ............................ 25.00
608th District ···············-··········· 38.40
614th District ............................ 25.00
628th District ............................ 75.00

Total --····-·····-·-·-·-' 83.60

Total ....................................$288.e

~~lia: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J3~

COMMANDERIES, IC. T.
No. Amount
Commander11
California .......................... 1 $ 12.50
5.00
Sacramento ...................... 2
10.00
Oroville ............................ 5
7.50
Nevada .............................. 6
5.00
Marysville ........................ 7
5.00
San Jose .......................... 10
5.00
Chico .................................. 12
5.00
Santa Rosa ........................ 14
10.00
Ventura ............................ 18
5.00
Naval .................................. 19
5.00
Watsonville ...................... 22
7.50
St. Bernard ...................... 23
5.00
Colusa ................................ 24
12.50
Visalia ................................ 26
10.00
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
5.00
Riverside •......................... 28
10.00
Pasadena .......................... 31
10.00
Mt. Shasta ........................ 32
15.00
Ukiah ·········---··················· 33
2.50
Eureka .............................. 35
10.00
Southern California ........ 37
5.00
San Francisco .................. 41
2.50
Santa Cruz ........................ 44
10.00
Alhambra .......................... 48
10.00
Whittier ............................ 51
5.00
Auburn .............................. 52
15.00
Hollywood ........................ 56
5.00
San Pedro .......................... 60
5.00
Santa Monica Bay............ 61
10.00
Calvary .............................. 62
5.00
Coalinga-Avena} ............ 72
Total --·-·····-··········-······.$235.00

COUNCILS, R. 8r: S. M.

No. Amount
1 $ 5.00
......................
Sacramento
5.00
Marysville ........................ 3
5.00
Gateway ............................ 13
5.00
Pasadena .......................... 16
2.50
Santa Cruz ........................ 17
2.50
Siskiyou ............................ 24
2.50
Alhambra ........................... 25
5.00
Pacific ···························-··· 37
5.00
San Fernando Valley...... 40
5.00
Coalinga ............................ 41
5.00
Harbor .............................. 45
5.00
Redwood .......................... 46

Council

Total ·--·---··---··-··-···--' 52.50

MISCELLANEOUS

Amount
C. J. Bozelle-···-··········-········-'
Past Matrons Assn.
of Bakersfield -··--··-····-···
W. R. Fortner -···-----····-····

10.00
15.00
5.00

355
Amount

Arthur R. Shumway ············Associated In-Group Donors
Inglewood Kiwanis Club......
Mothers CircleSanta Monica Bay Chapter Order of De Molay........
Dr. W. S. Lorenz......................
E. H. Stevenson............. _........ .
University Square Club....... .
633 Club ................................... .
Wimodauses Club of Ventura
Stanley J. Fisher....................
Miguelito Circle ······-······--···
F. L. Stamey............................
Santa Barbara Pyramid
No. 34 A. E. 0. S ...................
Star Sunshine Club ............... .
Telephone Masonic Club ......
Ramona Recreation Club ......
Low Twelve Club,
Los Angeles ........................
Vernon C. Noble..................... .
J. A. Johnson............................
C. W. Noyes ............................. .
Santa Maria Assembly
No. 92, 0. R. G._. __ ...........
Walter A. Sloan....·--··-··-···
San Diego Assembly No. 67
-Social Order of the
Beauceant ........................... .
Whittier Assembly No. 78Social Order of the
Beauceant ···········-··-··-··-···
Cleveland C. Cochran...... _,_
Paramount Square Club........
Columbia Acacia Club._.......
A. Denser ................................
Calstrip Steel Corporation....
G. S. Whitley and
I. C. Whitley....................... .
Irma Rhodes ·······-··············-···
Natalie Bistagne ---·--····--···
Samuel Klein .................·--···
Le Roy V. Brant ..................... .
Masonic Affiliated Youth
Coordinating Council ........
The Starletts Club ................. .
Eniwetok Square &
Compass Club ................... .
Edwin S. Morang, Jr............ .
Thousand Oaks Assembly
No. 33 0. R. G ...................... .
Hu.1?hes Employees
Give-Once Club ................. .
General Petroleum Corp.Employees Contributions..
Howard H. Colvin. ................ .
E. M. Stafford...............- ....... ..
George A. Souza.....--······-·····
Albert A. Asatoorfan........·-···

5.00
30.39
25.00
10.00
10.00
100.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
100.00
15.50
50.00
2.50
10.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
10.00
2.50
25.00
10.00
2.00
200.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
37.50
40.00
50.00
98.48
25.00
100.00
12.00
25.00
4.00
50.00
2.00

Total ···-·····-·--··-··---.$1,399.3'1

356

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

A. lk A. S. R.

Amount
Fresno Lodge o:f Perfection....$ 50.00
Oakland Bodies ·············-········· 25.00
Peninsula Bodies ...................... 20.00
California Lodge of Perfection 12.50

BETHELS, JOB'S DAUGHTER S
Bethel No.
Amount

CONTRIB UTIONS TO SPECIAL FUNDS

4 ···········-··········-··-············-·-··.$37.50

COVINA SPECIAL FUND

229 ·····-······················-··········-··-·· 8.ISl

Total ·-·························-··-···$44.01

o:

357

~state ~ice _r.MMclntosh......................................................$
35.00
c~rt~~1
·~
cintosh........................................................ 2.115.21

c.

.

PER CAPITA CosT

Estate of Icha~~0c~ E ................................................................
l 5.00
M A b
Ider..........................................................
500.00
Lorskh u:i ~se ~wyer ································································
500.00
Es~atee:f M=~~~~ ~lub ..............................................................
222.00
D
1
· O.Ve:ns.•.•........•.•_..................................... 17.008.M
F o~g as Air Square Oub............................................................
65.00
re erick Pollack ........................................................................
50.00
~anta ~o:a Bay District Officers Association........................
368.00
,J;ta~e o
m. C. Bartlett............................................................
919.07
E es ey fHaCcock ........................................................................
50.00
Nstate o J. leo Bowman............................................................ 1,495.64
orth American Aviation, Inc.....................................................
66.65
~tate of Ella D. Rivers..............................................................
344.33
E rs. Roland P. Walker .............................................................. 1.000.00
state of Harry A. Hickman...................................................... 4,468.30
Estate of Peter Hovereid ............................................................ 1,000.00
Estate of Jens Jensen ....................................•............................. 1,000.00
Estate of Leon B. W. Olds..........................................................
500.00
Estate of Harry I. O'Brien ..........................................................
100.00

Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal
Year Ending July 31, 1954

DECOTO SPECIAL FUND

Total -····-··--······-······-·····$107 .50

HOME STATISTI CS
NUMBER OP RESIDENTS AS OP JULY 31. 1954

Decoto Home:
Men Women Total
292
181
Residents. August 1, 1953....................... --····· 111
69
Admitted ............................................................ 30
39
42
23
Died and Withdrawn........................·-············· 19
319
197
Residents. July 31, 1954......·-········-·................ 122
Girls Total
Covina Home:
Boys
64
Residents. August 1. 1953................................ 36
28
14
Admitted ............................................................
7
7
12
Graduated and Withdrawn ............................,. 7
5
66
Residents. July 31, 1954.................................... 36
30

Decoto Home:
Cost of Maintenance............................................................$366,999.08
Average number of raidmts..............................................
308
Average operating cost per month...................................... 30.583.25
Average cost per day.......................................................... 1,019.44
Average cost per resident per year.•............·-·····················
1, 191.55
Average cost per resident per month..................................
99.29
Average cost per resident par day......................................
3.31
Average number of employees............................................
104

Estate of Arthur K. Bruman........................................................$ 1,000.00
Anonymous Donor ....................................................................
500.00
Estate of Jens Jensen .................................................................. 1,000.00
Estate of Harry I. O'Brien..........................................................
100.00
Estate of L. D. Sanderson ..........................................................
41.46
Estate of Leon B. W. Olds ........................................................
500.00

Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenance. ....................:......................................$168.903.98
Average number of residents............•.....~...........................
68
Average operating cost per month...................................... 14 ,075 .33
Average cost per day..........................................._.............
469.17
Average cost per child per year..·-·-·-······························ 2,483.88
Average cost per child per month........................................
206.00
Average cost per child per day...................................- . .
6.90
Average number of employees............................................
34

Estate of Wm. H. S. O.Ven. ....••.•...........•. --..............................$ 642. 78
Estate of Theodore R. Agnew ....................................................
250.00
Estate of Frank G. Falloon ........................................................ 7,505.54
Estate of Beatrice M. Potter.........................._...........................
50.00
Estate of John Tonningsen ........................................................ 6,582.07
Estate of Robert Jaquemaf.........................._ ......·.......................
500.00
Estate of Edward E. Northrup................... -...............................
532.11
Estate of Francis Meloling ...................................................... 2,695.89
Estate of Chas. Stewart ..............................................................
189 .50

RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEME NTS

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

359

GENERAL APPENDIX
CONTE NTS
Page
Registration and Mileage Payments...._.............................................. 360
List of ·Constituent Lodges........................•........................ -~.·----- 402
Extinct Lodges ······································-···················-··············....... - 421
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization............................ 425
List of Inspectors ···-··············-··································-· ·-·······-·- -······· 431
Foreign Grand Lodges ············--······································-··············-·· 434
Alphabetical List of Lodges....................................•........,. •• _____11 439
Correspondertce Report Announcement.............................................. 446
Index .................................•................•......•...................•____. _ _ 447

360

Name of Loda;e

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of Loda:e

No. of Lodge

R.epreaentativa

361

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Milcaa;e Allowed

California ·---·-··-No. 1....Howard M. McKinley, Jr., Master
Joseph M. Pabis, Senior Warden
Paul Cowglll, Junior Warden
Edward C. Lohmeyer, P.M. and Inspector
red M. Cody, Past Master
ames Hurst, Past Master
orsey E. Marsh, Past Master
James F. McKay, Jr., Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master
Ralph W. Scott, Past Master
David Thomson, Past Master
Charles C. Trowbridge, Past Master
Frank A. Williams, Past Master
Western Star-·-·-·······-No. 2....Walter L. Ericson, Senior Warden..............$ 30.92
Jesse W. Carter, Past Master
Tehama ·--···--·-·--__No. 3....Ralph B. Sutton, Master.................................. 7.64
Harold C. Schroder, Senior Warden
Elden B. Crews, Junior Warden
George H. Olmsted, P.M. and Inspector...... 7.64
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
No. 5..-Svend 0. K. Sorensen, Master.·--···········-· 3.10
Benicia -··No. 8....Marcel M. Baer, Master--···················--·-· 10.76
Tuolumne----·
Charles C. Hale, Put Master
Corinthian - · - - - - N o . 9....Raymond L. Rusk, Senior Warden.·-·······-- 10.60
James W. Robinson, P.M. and Inspector__ 10.60
George W. Williams, Past Master
San Jose -·----·-No.10....George E. Biggs, Master.................................. 4.12
Frederick L. Brown, Senior Warden
Chester F. Van Horn, Junior Warden
C. B. Sylvester, Past Grand Chaplain
Gilbert W. Hilton, Past Master

~

Yount ---~-----..·--No.12....William H. Ricketts, Maater...·-···-··-···--

3.20
Robert Hamilton, Senior Warden
Cornelius Kernan, Junior Warden
Jack Mast, P.M. and Inspector...................... 3.20
George 0. Potter, Past Master
No.13....Not represented
Nevada
r-Jo. 14... .Spencer Rees, Master...................................... 3.70
Temple
Percy E. Stokes, Senior Warden
Wilson W. Emery, Junior Warden
John N. Evans, Past Master
Theo. L. Picco, Past Master
Eureka --·-·-····---No. 16...J-lerman G. Whitham, Muter......-···-···-- 10.72
Dave P. Gebhart, Senior Warden
Burrell C. Jull, P.M. and Inspector.........--·· 10.72
La Parfalte Union..............No. 17....Henry M. Labataille, Master
Alfred P. Baylacq, Senior Warden
Andre L. Armand, P.M. and Inspector
Andre P. Glrerd, Past Master
Edouard J. Lagarde, Past Master
Felix Lassalle, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfantl, Past Master
Rene Monbeigt, Past Master
Jules Ramond, Past Master
Mountal.ll Shade _ _ ...No. 18.....Not represented

No. of Lodae

R.epruentativa

Milea11e Allowed

San Joaquin _ _ _ _ _.No.19 ....John L. Willette, Senior Warden.........·-·--- 7.22
Charles N. Howell, Junior Warden
J. F. McClory, Past Master
John H. Southwell, Past Master
Washington ····-·--No. 20_..Willlam L. Lewis, Master........·-····-·--···- 7.64
Daniel M. Cameron. Senior Warden............ 7.64
Harold N. Richards, Past Master
Joseph J. Ralph, Past Master
Hawaiian ---·-···----··No. 21....Willard A. Gilbert, Senior Warden............ 350.90
Gordon E. Smith, Past Master
Ellwood C. Wilder, Past Master
Occidental _ _ _ _ _No, 22....Hiram D. Blanchard, Master
Carl E. Peterson, Jr., Senior Warden
Robert A. Wertsch, Junior Warden
·
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., P.M. and Inspector
Raymond S. Kimbell, Past Master
Orville C. Baldwin, Past Master
William E. Bouton, Past Master
Archibald J. Cloud, Past Master
John A. Mord, Jr., Past Master
Madison ----··-·__No. 23...Earl D. Wheaton, Master---····-·····-·-·- 24.62
Steven M. Chileski. Senior Warden
George L. Jones, Past Grand Master............ 25.08
Edward Farley, P.M. and Inspector............ 24.62
Mariposa -···..·-··-·····--No. 24...f:C: fi::io~~~~~a";d;;···-·
Daniel Kleiman, Past Master
James P. McElligott. Paat Muter
_ _ _ _No, 25_.Roy B. Rutz. Master-..
Georgetown ..
Carl J. Forsberg, Senior Waiden
El Dorado _ _ _No. 26....Thomas T. Chard, Master---··-·-···-Charles Buckley, Senior Warden
Jacob (Jack) Feth, Junior Warden
Vernon E. Allen. Past Master
Trinity -···-··-·--·---No. 27.._Walter P. Van Matre, Master......................
Arthur Paulsen, Past Grand Master..............

..-···········-··· 26.32

Golden Gate ·---·-..No. 30....Clifford K. Hamllton, Master
William B. Bellamy, Senior Warden
Harry K. Widup, P.M. and Inspector
R.H. Bradley, Past Master
Randolph M. Rosso, Past Master
Howard J. Smith, Past Master
Gold Hill _ _ _ _ _No. 32....Albert S. Bates, Master·------___No. 33....Mathew McNamara.
Ophir Put Master and Repraentatlve
San Diego...............- . - ·..No. 35....~~l~:~S~P;::.~~···-·····--Robert B. James, Juniar Warden
Joe L. Shell, Past Muter.....---···-·····Fred J. H. Rickon, Past Master
Maurice B. Ross, Past Master
Howard ·--·-···---___No. 37•...Charles J. Van Orsdel, Senior Warden........
Geo. S. Ward, P.M. and Inspector..............

12.32
12.22

34.92
34.92

10.06
10.02
60.84
60.84

40.34
40.34
6
.SO
Santa Cruz ..-··-·-··-····-·-No. 38... "¢J~i~r ~;:;s~;;;-w~~~········..····
Frank E. Lindley, Junior Warden
Henry Kaiser, P.M. and Inspector•.----- 6.50
Edwin R. Hoff, Past Master
Roy L. Mayfield, Past Master
Emil W. Trefts, Past Muter..·-···--···-- 6.50

t_

362
Name of Lodce

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
Repreacntativea

No. of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milea1e Allowed

Seaament.o -····-·---No. 4(LPorrest E. Robinson, Master-··---·- -···
Frank/· Schoenbachler, Junior Warden
Darrel R. Purcell, Past Muter
Harry M. Baker, Paat Master
Martinez _ _ _ _ _ No, 41-..Ray L. Stoffela, Junior Warden..--:·--- ·WakeBeld Taylor, Past Master-··-···-· ··
Benjamin P. Schleifer, Past Master

7.64

Loe Angeles - - - - N o . 42......Bert Knaster, Muter--···-·· ·--·-·····-

51.10

Hiram _____.__No, 43-Jack M. Smith, Senior Warden...........- Mount Moriah -·-··--No. 4•L..Frank G. Norman, Master
Otto A. Gramlow, Senior Warden
William T. Tillson, Junior Warden
Edwin E. Keough, Past Master
Alphonse F. Maillous, Past Master
Irwin J. Robertson, Past Master

12.52

2.98
2.98

James Cope, Senior Warden
Matthew M. Codon, Past Muter..........·-·-· 51.10

Crescent

_No, 45-!-ynn Tracy, Senior Warden..·-····-· ···...... 39.36
Howard Benner, Past Master

Texas - - - - - - N o . 46..Jlarvey W. Parker, Muter---········- ---···
Joseph E. Regan, Past Master
Forbestown · · - - -

7.36

No. 50-CUve B. Hubbell, Master:---·-·········-···- 26.56

Everett Hall, Senior Warden
Charles Zirion, Junior Warden
Illinolstown ______No, 51.-John E. Sears,
Past Master and Representative.·--·········· 23.H
No. 55-R. Glenn Hollar, Past Master and Inspector 4.2-t
.
Suisun _
Volcano ·------·--N o. 56-Edmund R. Santlrfo.
Paat Master and Representative.·-·····-····· 10.42
K McMuIUn, Master.......................... 4.40
Shirley
....
57
Santa Rosa _____No,
Glendall W. McDermott, Senior Warden
Charles F. Minetti, Junior Warden
Carvil W. Marlatt, P.M. and Inspector...... ·UO
Charles C. Warren, Past Master
Union ---·---···_.N o, 58....Herbert Mullen, Master................................ .. 7.64
Richard Lawrence, Senior Warden
Geo. Harbinson, Junior Warden
ack C. Butler, Past Master
. P. Bascom, Past Master
Gravel Range ----No. 59-Wm. E. Groves.
Past Master and Representative................ 28.72
Plumas _ _ _ _: ___No. 6()__0rval A. Myers,
P.M. and Inspector and Representative.... 30.14
No. 6L.John Telford, Master
IJve Oak_
William E. MacKenzie, Senior Warden
Henry W. Gutte, Junior Warden
Laurence E. Dayton, Past Master
Lee Swaney Griswold, Past Master
9.32
~ Munjter, Maater--············ -·-····
64_Edmond
____No.
Natoma
Wendell . Van Winkle, Senior Warden
Percy S. lair, Past Master
.
Norman L. Langness, Paat Master
Amador ______No, 65.._Robert E. Towsley, Senior Warden_____ ., 10.22

.
f

363

Mllace Allowed
Rcptaentatlva
Jr..
Doren.
Van
V.
Wlllard
....
66
Forest -------·-···--· No.
Past Master and Repreaentatlve --·-·-- 38 .80
V. Abbott. Master....- ..- ..-········......... 7.22
68_..Alvin
Morning Star ········-··---·No.
Robert W. Schaeneman, Senior Warden
Donald L. Stewart, Junior Warden
Stanley Hurst Wentz, P.M. and Inspector.. 7.22
lo.60
Enterprise --·-···-·····-·-·-No. 70..-t'!~s~W!:t.~er:Ior~~-·---··---·­
Phlllp M. Helsch, Past Master
Hugh D. Moncur, Past Master
represented
76_Not
_.No.
Bear Mountain ...........
F. Nelson, Senior Warden.-·--··· 9.76
0scar
..
78_
No.
_
Calaveras ........... _ _
Humboldt ···--·-····--·-·...No. 79...Arnold 0. Remington, Senior Warden........ 34.92
Ione ----··--·_ No. 80....Alvin B. Caughey, Master.·----- -·--·- 10.68
J. Wesley SibOle, Past Master and Inspector 10.68
Herbert L. Coney, Put Master
_____ ___No, 81.._Robert F. Reiff, Master.--- ··---- 7.82
Yolo
}. Harold Braden, Senior Warden
C. F. Hayden, Past Master
27.94
Vesper -----·-··-N o. 84....Willlam A. Cupples, Master..·----·--··-·
George D. Zeeveld, Senior Warden
Lester Totten, Past Master and Inspector.... 27.94
2.84
_____No. 87....Melvin C. Nelson, Master..· - - - N val
John K. Cothran, Senior Warden
--·a
Bertrand Wichels, Junlar Warden
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
· Melvin C. Baker, Past Master
Milton I. Dawson, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
Paul E. Meyers, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
12.60
Rose's Bar --···---···No . 89....Fred E. Williford. Senior Warden...----Thomas Scogland, Junior Warden
North Star _______No. 91-.Not represented
5.50
...No. 93....Howard K. Cole,
St. Helena
Lowell Palmer, Senior Warden
Elwood J. Mee, Paat Master
Basil B. Rouse, Past Master
Russell J. Sandvick, Past Master
V. Vukovich, Master--·· ·--- 9.94
95-John
-No.
...
Henry Oay - - -·-- 26.32
No. 98....Harvey 0. Garst, Senior Warden
Hornltos - · - - - Wilson E. Lathrop, P.M. and Inspector..._. 22.86
_...No. 99....Arne N. Ornberg, Master.......................- ...... 22.86
Yosemite
Ralph E. Ellis, Senior Warden
--Kenneth R. McSwaln, Junior Warden
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Master................ 7.64
Leland D. Boysen, Past Master
Castle D. Robinson, Past Master
A. Harold Rolfes, Past Master
Clay _ _ _ _ _ _No. 101-Thos. J. Edwards, Senior Warden.-·----·- 24.26
H. W. Haberkorn, Past Master
Clayton W. D'Arcy, Senior Warden...-- 23.76
....
No.103
Oroville
Sewell K. Parker, Past Master

Name of Lode•

Ko. of Lod1e

Master---- -·-·-

364
Name of LodJe

No. of Lodge

Repruentativea

365

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mile111e Allowed

Lexington ·---·-··-No. 104._George M. Hanson, Master____:··--·James E. Parker, Senior Warden
E. Earl Crawford, Past Master
Tom R. Richardson, Past Master
Arcata ····-·········-··-·--No. 106...Lloyd G. Swope, Senior Warden..............-ames E. Morton, Jr., Past Master
James N. Palmer, Sr.. Past Master
Pajaro -·-···-····-·-·········-No. 110....Wayne 0. Hall, Master·-····-························
James M. Watkins, Senior Warden
Warren H. Davis, Junior Warden
Andrew F. Edwards, Past Master
Chico -------···-·-··-No. 11 L..Hayden G. Lewis, Master-·-·····-·········-·
T. W. Moore, Senior Warden
William C. Brouillard, Past Master
Summit ···----·-No. 112__Thomas H. Prowse,
Past Master and Representative.........·-····
Eden ---···--·----No. 113....Harold L. Evans. Master
Park M. Hyde, Senior Warden
Elmer E. Ross, Junior Warden
Morrison B. Currey, Past Master
John B. Norton, Past Master
Concord ····-·--····--·-······No.117....~~;,"J l\~,fe":~·s~:O..terw~J;;·················
Forrest F. Stead, Past Master
Fidelity ··-·-········----No. 120....Reuben E. Gilbert, Master
Max Rudorfer, Senior Warden
Albert Farber, Junior Warden
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Cyril L. Weeks, Past Master
Irving A. Berliner, Past Master
Henry Levy, Past Master
George K. Manheim, Past Master
Milton D. Saplro, Past Master
Alamo --·-···-··--··-·_No. 122... .0. J. Wohlgemuth, Master............................
Clarence W. Ellsworth, Senior Warden
Wm. E. Connelly, Junior Warden
Paul F. Ruff, Past Master and Inspector....
Charles G. Faisst, Past Master
Ralph M. Hinds, Past Master
J. B. Near, Past Master
Sotoyome ·-····-----No.123...Harold H. Hutchins, Senior Warden............
Table Mountain ·-·-··-·-No. 124....Kenneth E. Moyes,
Past Master and Representative......·-·······
Lloyd P. Cornell, Past Master
LaFayette _______ _No.126...Lloyd R. Jackson, Muter----········-·····
Elmer B. Garrison, Senior Warden
William C. Heatly, Past Master
Henry L. Singmaster, Past Master
Hermann ···············---No. 127....0scar P. Bachmann, Master
Arthur Parker, Senior Warden
Walter G. Heilmann, Junior Warden
John Behrens, Past Master and Inspector
Richard H. Dachner, Past Master
Alfred Floer, Past Master
William Haag, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
George Mammen, Past Master
Albert G. Matthes, Past Master
Reinhard M. Muhlmann, Past Master
Jakob Rauscher, Past Master
Hans E. Warncke, Past Master

51.10

34.92
8.48

25.42

10.46

7.64

1.70
1.70

5.62
26.92
5.10

Name of Locfae

No. of Lod11e

Repruentativea

Mileage Allowed

Visalia ------No.128....Mitchell Lunstra, Master.........--................_ 31.22
· Theodore F. Thompson, Senior Warden
Vernon F. Crw:en, Junior Warden
James B. Lawson, P.M. and Inspector.....__ 31.22
F. Ross Fleming, Past Master
Marvin 0. Winings, Past Master
Nicolaus -··················-·-··No. 129...Richard F. Taresh, Senior Warden.............. 10.60
8.34
Woodbridge ···············-·-No.131....Thos. L. Walker, Master
Oliver H. Brouillard. Seok;;·w;;;<l~··· ..·······
S. E. Burgstahler, Junior Warden
W. Corell Smith, Past Master and Inspector 7.64
Clyde H. Gregg, Past Master
Palmer A. Wells, Past Master
No.132...Ernest Dean, Senior Warden..........._.. __ 31.64
Sincerity ___.
Vacaville ···-·- - -..--No. 134....T. A. Emmlngton, Master·--···········--·Valley - - - - - -•....No.135....Wilbur F. Krenz, Master....:..........·-·--·····Ralph M. Foote, Assistant G1-and Lecturer..
James A. Drace, Past Master and Inspector
No.136....Albert F. E. Hallett, Sr., Master
Pacific--·-·
Samuel C. Levin, Senior Warden
William M. Webster, Junior Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master

5.08
8.12
8.12
8.12

Crockett -······-··············--No. 139....Ford J. Thornton, Master
Alf Kohn. Senior Warden
Gordon Jensen, Junior Warden
Ballard White, Jr., P.M. and Inspector..·-·- 37.20
Zina R. Callaham, Past Master
William A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
Theodore E. Klein, Past Master
James Low, Past Master
Frederick J. Mahr, Past Master
Charles S. McGlothlin, Past Master
Richard E. Schreiber, Past Master
-·-···----No.140•...F. B. Caldwell, Maslltr.
Lowell 0. Duesler, Senior Warden
Jesse F. Scott, Junior Warden

7.06

G1-afton ·-···-·--··--No.141...Everett E. Austin, Senior Warden...·-··--·····..-No. 143... Lyman B. Wright. Master......·--············--·-··
Franklin
Donald S. Herlnger, Junior Warden
Ray E. Burdg, Past Master and lnapector._.
Edward T. ~y~n. Past Master
Horace W. Williama, Past Master
Oriental -····-------& 144_.David A. Paslni, Master
Arthur J. Swank, Senior Warden
Walter E. Sanner, Past Master and Inspector
Paul F. Balck, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
Claude E. Fountain, Past Master
Edwin C. Hansen, Past Master
Lawrence P. Hansen, Past Master
Donald T. Owens, Past Master
Ian A. Russell, Past Master
John C. Wiesner, Past Master
No. 145....0rrin Buell, ....._
Vitruvius
Robert Borges, Senior Warden

8.02
8.94

Curtis

7.64

5.20

366
Name of Lode•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. ol Lod1e

Repre1e11tadvQ

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mllea19 Allow.d

--·····No. 146-Frank A. Branson. Master....·----······-- 9.50
James L Lindsey, Senior Warden
George R. Dietterle, Junior Warden
Elmer M.Hopper,Past Master and Inspector 9.50
Eel River --···············-No.147...Raymond E. Stewart, Senior Warden.......... 33.40
Lassen ·--······-·---No. 149._C. E. Lowe, Senior Warden..·-········-········· 36.66
Elmer G. Van Tassell,
Past Master and Inspector-........................ 36.66
Abell

Molino ···--·-·········-····No. 150...Allen R. Frink, Master.·-·---··················· 26.98
Daniel Liddell, Senior Warden
Woodland ........................No. 156....Harley E. Juli, Senior Warden..·--·········-··· 7.32
Harry S. Freytag, Junior Warden
Keystone -························No. 16L..John F. Helms. P.M. and Representative...... 9.22
Harmony ···········-·············No. 164....Not represented
Excelsior --·······-···········No. 166.-Ralph E. Flathmann, Master
Elnar G. Fredricksen, Senior Warden
Harry F. Lutticken, Junior Warden
Chas. Albert Adams, Past Grand Master
Leslie E. Alt, Past Master
John C. Bovey, Past Master
Walter Pybon, Past Master
Joseph R. Edmiston, Past Master
W. Blair Rixon, Past Master
Alameda ·-········--·····-····No. 167.._Karl Nordvik, Master------···-···-·-- 2.84
Bernard Lawlor, Senior Warden
Redwood Oty -·········-···No. 168...Emery L. Bionaz, Master.·-···-----········ 2.24
Kenneth L. Steiner, Senior Warden
Rudolph C. Holmquist, Jr., Junior Warden
Herbert Nelson, Past Master
Mission --···-·--···----NO. 169.._James D. Skidmore, Master
Auguiit Krome, Junior Warden
Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
Elk Grove ---···--··No.173...Ellis L. Maisch, Senior Warden.-·······-········ 9.20
Drytown ··-·--···········-···No.174...Enis McCollum, Jr.. Senior Warden............ 9.84
Antioch -··--·-·················No. 175__Timothy F. Brown. Jr.. Master..·-················· 4.60
Phoenix ····-··--················No.178....Lee I. Robb, Master.......·--····························· 55.62
Raymond H. Seymour, Senior Warden
Guy W. Whelchel, Past Master
Mendocino -·-···-·······-··-No.179...Maurice L. Woodward, Senior Warden...... 17.96
Petaluma ----········No. 180.._Charles W. Thomas, Junior Warden.........-. 3.20
Park A. Van Bebber, Past Master
Russian River ---·········-No.181...Al Rabinovitz, Master·-------·········· 5.00
Carroll C. Doane, P.M. and Inspector........ 4.40
Arbuckle -·-······-······-·No.182....Ward A. Peart, Master--····-·-·--········-·· 9.74
Clear Lake --·····--····No. 183-William H. Weeks, Junior Warden..·-······- 5.30
Clarence E. Corum, Past Master
Sierra Valley __......_No.184....Donald W. Webber, Senior Warden.......... 32.H
Claiborne --··-·····-No. 185...Jioward W. Fry, Master...·----···-····-···· 17.20
Evening Star -···-··-·No. 186....N. Frank Swickard, Senior Warden...·-····- 44.82
Keith ·---··--·-·-·······No.187__James E. Bogle, Senior Warden.................._ 6.66
Oelmar T. Luckett. Junior Warden

Name of Lodp

No. of Lod110

Repreaentativee

367
Mn.ea Allowed

Oakland -····-·------No.188....Elmer F. Elsen, Master
Burton R. Griswold, Senior Warden
Artie M. Clark, Junior Warden
M. L. Graves, Past Master
James K. Wilson, Past Master
Northern Light ·-·····-·····No.190_.Elwood F. Ward, P.M. and Representative 31.92
Thomas B. Copeland. Past Master
Marin ---·-······················No.191.-Toseph C. Meager, Master
:Ernest H. McCaughan, Senior Warden
William Sea, Junior Warden
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Clinton T. Duffy, Past Master
Horace W. Rice, Past Master
George T. Rowse, Past Master
Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Russell H. Warden, Past Master
Warren H. Williams. Past Master
Santa Barbara ···-···-···-···No. 192....Gordon E. McAdams, Muter..·-·····-············ 42.22
Eugene I. Jones, Senior Warden
Harold U. Cook, Junior Warden
Albert B. Christiansen, Past Master
Edward G. Dodge, Past Master
Alfred W. Kincaid, Past Master
Merton F. Lewis, Past Master
Ferndale ---·········-··········No. 193....Franklin N. Myers, Senior Warden....---- 34.10
Mountain View ···-········_No.194-..John E. Neff, Master.---·-----·--···-··- 3.54
Arno Ragghianti, Senior Warden
Buckeye ···---····-···-······No. 195....Charles A. Elliott,
Past Master and Representative...·-·········· 7.18
Milton H. Sharp,
Past Master and Inspector...---·--··-··· 7.18
San Simeon ··-······..····--No.196....James F. Fry, P.M. and Representative........ 30.78
Wilmington ··--·········-·-·No.198._Wm. S. Wood, Senior Warden.···---··-- 51.10
Alton T. DuRant, Junior Warden
Thomas F. Mason, Past Master........·-········· 51.10
Hartley ······-··-·-··-········-·No. 199....Gehard van Herick, Senior Warden............ 9.12
Guido de Ghetaldi, P.M. and Inspector...-. 11.00
Truckee ··-······-····-·········No. 200.-T. H. Lucas, Senior Warden.......·-····-······- 28.80
R. S. Critchley, Jr., Junior Warden
J. D. Anderson, Past Master
Silveyville ············-·······-·No. 201....Rowland Moss, P.M. and Representative.... 5.80
Ralph H. Moss, Past Master
Herbert E. Pearson, Past Master
Pentalpha ···················-····No. 202...Earle Stevens, Master...................................... 51.10
Fred A. Lofvendahl, Senior Warden
Richard C. Hart, Junior Warden
John M. Gordon, Past Master
Wm. R. Hervey, Jr.. Past Master................ 51.10
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master
Howard H. Arnold, Past Master
Rex W. Barnett, Past Master
Jesse B. Chapman, Past Master
Clarence W. Hull, Past Master
Confidence ·····-··--·······-..No. 203-Claude L. Hayes. Senior Warden............·-··· 9.20
Fong Q. Jing, Past Master
Salinas --·--···-·:····-····No. 204....W. Geo. Mossier, Master-·-·-···---···-·- 9.74
Jack T. Palmer, Senior Warden

368
Name of Lod1e

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lod1e

Repreecntativ.,

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milcaae Allowed

Olivet ·-----···--·-·-· ·····No. 205....Not represented
Stanislaus - - · -·····---No. 206....Claris B. Hopkins, Senior Warden.............. 8.76
53.50
Anaheim ··--·--·--··-- No. 207.. _Gilbert T. Koehler, Mum
Glenn M. Kirk, Senior Warden
A. B. Cross, Past Master
Arthur S. Osbom, Past Master
Rio Vista ··-·····--········ -No. 208....Jackson J. Balley, Master..·-··-·-····-····· ··· 5.74
King Oavtd's --······-··-No . 209.._Wm. E. Snowman, Senior Warden...______ 32.06
Lloyd C. Stone, Junior Warden
Kline J. Williams, Past Master...................... 32.06
Casper J. Weir, Jr.. Past Master
Wm. R. Williams, Past Master
Friendship -··--·-··--N ot 210....Morris Thush, Master·······-- ···-··-··········-·· 4.12
John F. Knight, Past Master and Inspector.. 4.12
lawrence A Campbell, Past Master
Darrell Sedgwick, Past Master
San Benito --------N o. 211 ....Perle P. Schleuse, Senior Warden................ 7.66
Herman A. Hermansen. Past Master
South San Frandsco-....No. 212._George A. Agosti, Master
Wil.U8m J. Bozlos, Senior Warden
Roger Fernandez, Past Master
Homer M. Rothery, Past Master
San Buenaventura -··-···--No. 2H....Claude J. Graham, Master-·-··· -··-····-·- 44.60
George C. Etter, Senior Warden
George N. Fitch, Junior Warden
Lyman E. Hallowell, Past Master
Oak Grove _ ______ No. 215__T. James Carlile, Master
Georqe S. Mutch, Senior Warden
Fred J. Benson, Junior Warden
William Nankervls, Jr., Past Master and
Inspector
Homer A. Buck, Past Master
Ed. A. Johnson, Past Master
Bertrand F. LUJ'ie, Master
....
216
----.No.
Doric
Ira W. Coburn, Past Master
Samuel I. Jacobs, Past Master
Philip F. fogole, Past Master
Monterey .- - - -..........-No. 217....James S. Moody, Senior Warden. ......- ..-... 10.46
Mosaic ---·----N o. 218-Niles B. Bentley, Senior Warden_____ ....... 4.12
Robert J. Livermore, Junior Warden
John W. Houser, Past Master
Speranza Itallana - ....... No. 219.... Nino Cerruti, Senior Warden
John M. Icardo, Past Master and Inspector
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
John Icardi, Past Master
John Isola, Past Master
Downey ·-·----N o. 220....Virgil M. McCown, Muter_·-- ·- --··· 51.10
Claudis T. Shirley, Senior Warden
Harry P. Lawhorn, Past Master and
Inspector ···-··········- ---............._·······-- 51.10
A. Lee Gauldin, Past Master
Inyo ---·-·-··. .No. 221...D. A. Pellissier, Senior Warden......·-···-·- 48.70
Roseville - - - - - N o . 222.-Kenth A. Buder, Master · -··-- ···..-·-··..··· 9.20

Name of Lod1e

Bakers.8eld

No. of Lod1e

Reprcecnte.tlvea

·

369
Mileage Allowed

O. Thomas, Master ................................ 36.70
-------N o. 224....Lee
Lloyd E. Myers, Senior Warden

J. Clifton Carpenter, Junior Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master............ 36.70
Orville L. Coburn, Past Master and
Inspector ···-·······"-··· ·--··..·······............. · 36.70
William M. McKenney, Past Master
Mike S. Oldershaw, Past Master
Brooklyn ···---···-..-No. 225....Kenneth W. Sheide, Master
Edward M. Thornton. Junior Warden
Roy S. Lenthall, Past Master and Inspector
Roy F. Anderson. Past Master
George E. Home, Past Master
Irving Magn_es, Past Master
Eugene S. May, Past Master
San Mateo ··--·····-....--..No. 226....George H. Cardiff, MSaster W rden
Arthur W. Johnson, enior a
Boswell F. l<ing, Jr., Junior Warden
Clarence C. Smith, Past Master
James R. Eubanks, Past Master
Richard E. Giesin, Past Master
Westley P. Jones, Past Master
,..,o. 228 Donald Hanson, Senior Warden.................... 6.50
Athens
····Thomas Wright, Junior Warden
-······-·-··-··-n
Gus A. Haussler, Past Master
Solano ·--- ·-·---No . 229....Henry A. Mini, Jr., Master............................ 2.84
Robert 0 . Gloeckner, Senior Warden
Clarence E. Shoaf, Junior Warden
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
Edwin B. Pierce, Past Master
Price, Senior Warden................ 12.14
W Wesley
North Butte ......................No. 230··a~re
B. Cam bell, Assistant Grand Lectuf'er 12.14
Joseph H. Wfute, Past Master and Inspector 12.14
·
__No. 231 ...Elmer L. Brown, Junior Warden.--- --·- H.94
Covelo
Ward-- --· 35.98
Janesville - ··------N o. 232....S. M. Davis, MuterJ
en
James E. Young, unior
Calistoga ·-..·-----No . 233....Thomas P. Engleman, Master....·--·--- - 6.36
Hope ···-·-·---- --No. 234....James T. Burton, Senior Warden................ 32.72
No. 235...Rarold A. Parman, Senior Warden.--· -· 42.68
Surprise Valley
Hills Ferry -··-----N o. 236....Clifford P. W elmer, Senior Warden.-........ 9.32
Lyle G. Schuman, Junior Warden
0. Elliott, Senior Warden---- -·..····-- 34.16
.Joe
Guadalupe -·--···----No. 237...
'rhomas G. Cocking, Junior Warden
C. D. Cordash, Past Master
Henry R. Gewe, Past Master
John Jenkins, Past Master
Colusa _____ _ N o . 240....William R. Dunham, Master - - ............... 11.42
.-No. 241...R. J. Villl!grana, Muter --····-·-·-..·······-- 53.50
Santa Ana -··
Miner E. Whitford. Senior Warden
Augustus H. Allen, Past Master-................. 53.50
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
__No, 242....Floyd M. Shook, Senior Ward~rn...__ _ 42.22
Magnolia
Robert W. Milton, Junior Warden
- .--Albert Brotherton, Past Master and
Inspector - - - - - - · ··- ···---.. ·-···- ·· 42.22
Ralph C. Hine, Past Master

371

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

370
Naa.e of Loclp

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
No. of Lod1e

lleprea ntatl-

Master
Eucalypt111 -·-- ·-N o. 243_.Arthur Woodruff, , Senior Ward en
Charles H. Welsh
JeM G. Grimsley, Junior Ward en
Gaylord Quinn, Past Master and Inspector
Walte r F. Flierl, Past Master
Fred H. Horwood, Past Master
Max C. Paine, Past Master
Anthony F. Taylor, Past Master
Wm. G. Searcy, Master
....
244
Alcatraz ··········-··--···--..No.
Harold B. Lindblad, Senior Ward en
Lowell K. Bain, Past Master
A. A. Campbell, Past Master
V. J. Coley, Past Master
Al&ed Olsen, Past Master
Beverley C. Sutliff, Past Master
Abner F. Thompson, Past Master
Walte r W. Cook, Senior Warde n................ 23.64
....
245
No.
Laure l··---· -·
Johnson, Maste r· - - ·-·· -- 54.08
Pomona ····--· -··--- ···-No . 246....Elihu G. A.
Holk, Senior Ward en
Leonard
Alvin H. Goss, Junior Ward en
Cecil A. Amberson, Past Master
D. Watki ns, Maste r---···· ·······- ··-··· 27.52
Harry
...
247
Fresno ····-- ·--·- --...No.
William C. Sheppard, Senior Ward en
Wllliam L. Benton, Junior Ward en
Chester H. Warlo w, Past Grand Master
Harry F. White , Past Master
Dan B. Hurlbut, Past Master
J. W. Werne r, Past Master
nder B. Pedersen. Representative...... 41.28
.Alexa
...
248
.
-·-No
Alturaa ···-····-··-·No; 250...Elmer W. Miller, Senior Ward en..·-· -···--· 40.36
Adln
lfred L. Hayes, Master..·-·--·· ····-·- -······ 8.12
Landmark ---·· -··-- No. 253-.A
Paul St~hens, Jr., Senior Ward en
John S. L!der, Junior Ward en
'V. F. Vieira. Past Maste r
n........_._ 30.92
Reading
·- - - N o . 25-f_W ayland Wheeler, Senior Warde
······ 30.92
········-·
r·-······
Maste
Past
Albert F. RoM,
Daniel C. McRae, Past Master
E. Martin, Senior Ward en.·-· -··- 31.20
Welcome -·--- -···- -No . 2SS....Edward
Regfna.Jd Billingsley, Junior Ward en
J. Ralph Dawdy, Past Master and Inspector 31.20
Ehrhardt, Senior Warc:len._._ _ 7.64
.Alvfn
...
256
Lodi ---- ·--· -No •
T. Glenn Wrigh t, Past Master
No. 258_W alter L. Taylo r, Maste r·····- ---··- --·- 10.06
Penrhyn
---···· 56.M
Jack R. Freeland, Master ····-·········---Evergreen - · · - - N o . 259....Willa
rd H. Winde r, Senior Ward en
Willar d G. Babcock, Past Master and
56.M
Inspector ----· --·-- ·---· --··- ······ Byron C Morton, Put Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master.................... 56.M
Sherman G. Babcock. Past Master
Wayn e C. Casteel, Master
....
260
.
··-No
·---·-·
King Solomon's
Thomas W. Chinn, Senior Ward en
John W. Davey, Past Maste r
Henry E. Bennett, Sr., Put Master
Louis C. Clodi, Past Master
Ulysses G. Patropulos, Past Master
Albert Rler, Past Master
Thaye r B. Thomas, Past Maste r
John E. Werry , Past Master

Name of Lodae

No. of Lod1e

Reprae atativa

klleap All~d

d. Past Master and
Tusca n --·· ---· -No . 26L-H enry A. Atwoo
10.72
Representative - - - - - - - en.--....- 37.26
No. 262....Robert D. Speers, Senior Ward
Lompoc --..
Chaa. S. Laubly, Past Master
tt Meredith. Senior Ward en.... 34.86
Hesperian - · · - - - N o . 264...Danie ldDeWi
Donal E. Thomas, Junior Ward en
r and
Floyd H. Watso n, Past Maste
34.86
Inspector ............._..,...,.._ _ _ __
Henry Drashner, Past Master
William D. Wisen er, Put Master
25.10
..No. 265-E dwin G. Berklancl, Senior Warde n_ __ ...
Orlan d ·-·-·····
Master and
North East ··-·- ----N o. 266_H enry Kober, Past
-····-· ··---· 44.26
Representative _
.......... 7.64
eD-...
Ward
No. 267_0ma l 0. Preston, Senior
Galt
r
Maste
vich,
No. 268_C harles R. Ratko
Duran t
- Harold D. Givens, Senior Ward en
Oliver J. Brown, Junior Ward en
Niles 0. Millar, Past Master and Inspector
Ralph E. Hoyt, Past Master
Gus. A. Griesche, Past Master
B. J. Rose, Past Master
illiam F. Hanis, Mas ter.· --·-- --· 31.32
269-W
o,
--N
Ollve Branch _ _
Elmer G. Sl!fpley, Senior Ward en
Edwin T. Nagel, Junior Ward en
Warde n.............·-···-··· 16.M
Snow Mountain __ ........No. 271.....Lee Sconyers, Junior
er, Master ........................ 52.20
Pasadena _ _ _ _ _No.2 72-T. William Heidn
Roy R. Jordan, Senior Ward en
Lee C. Reed, Past Master
51.10
R. McCleery, Senior Ward en.·-·- -·-·- 51.10
.Fred
Anchor --···- ...-·- --No . 273...
-···--r
Maste
Past
n,
Pierso
K.
Ralph
George Q. Evans, Past Master
B. J. Little, Past Master
Theo. Newtson. Past Master
Ne.. 27't.J larry B. Davis. Past Mute r and
Arroyo
33.16
Repreaentative ··--·- -·--·· ····-·· -······-···
Sam P. Starfaa, Past Master
.......-··-···
ames A. Coslet. Senior Wardern.~
Oakdale ---- ··-- No . 275-JClaibo
rn Schonhoff, Past Mute .
Inspector

Selma _ _..

9.26
9.26

·· 28.94
, No. 277....N. R. Peterson. Malter---·-··········-···

Floyd W. Anden on, Senior Ward en
Sidney L. Cruf, Past Master
Paul J. Nielsen. Put Master
51.10
Willia F. McComas, Muter--·-·-··-·········
Southern California ........No. 278....Elven
R. Davis, Senior Ward en
Theodore E. Brown, Junior Warden
John M. Askin. Past Maste r
Charles T. Medler, Past Master
Harold V. Spend er. Past Master
G. Raymond Tanne r, Past Master
Hanford

Madera ....

····-·· -··· 30.SO
Mute r ·----··
Edwln H. Linville, Senior
--N a. 279....Donal
Ward en
d C. Jensen,
N4). 280_A. L. Arnold, Senior Warc:l~en~
Tom M. Wilsaa, Jun!o rWard m

25.82

372

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Name of Lodae

No. ol Lod1e

bpraentatlvca

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milea1e Allowed

Mt. Shasta ----·--No. 28l_Glenn A. Grafe, Master·-······-········-··········· 29.92
J. Richard Hornbeck. Senior Warden
William C. Gover, Past Master and
Inspector ···························-··························· 29.92
Callayomi
·---No. 282....James N. Evans, Junior Warden..·-·-··- 5.00
South West ·------No. 28L.Edward C. Wright, Sr., Senior Warden...... 60.84
Elwyn W. Thompson, Junior Warden
San Miguel -----No. 285._.Henry R. Miller, Senior Warden ·········-··-·- 28.22
Orin Compton, Past Master and Inspector.. _ 32.06
Paso Robles -----No. 286....Edger E. Pherson, Senior Warden............_ 29.08
Wtnnedumah --·- - -•.No. 287...Roward A. Evans, Senior Warden.............. 43.78
Wilfred W. Partridge, Past Master and
Inspector ·-··-······-···-···--························ 43.78
Maxwell ·-----No. 288.. _Chester N. Detlefsen. Senior Warden..__ 11.44
Leland E. Wallace, Past Master and
Inspector ·······························-·-·················· 11.44
Elsinore
-----No. 289._Curtia S. Hutchens, Senior Warden._.....-.... 57.34
H. G. Habenicht, Past Master
East Gate ___ ___No, 290...Roy G. McFarland, Master..·-··-·-·······-······· 51.10
Curtis C. Orrell, Junior Warden
Oscar Lawler, Past Grand Master•.••·--··-·- 51.10
John A. Crosby, Past Master
Eric S. Flett, Past Master
Daniel M. Hollar, Past Master
Frank S. Moore, Past Master
Santa Paula ·-·----No. 291....Paul A. Wilson. Past Master & Inspector
and Representative ··-··---·-·-·-··- 45.50
Gustaf A. B. Quick, Past Master
Los Gatos ·-·-----No. 292...Rarrison M. Walker, Master ........................ 5.12
Raymond J. Fisher, Junior Warden
Loren Alton Lloyd, Past Master and
Inspector ---····
---·····- 5.12
William Jones, Past Master
Orange Grove ·-··---·No. 293....0rval L. Van Dyke, Master.......................... 53.50
G. Abbott Smith. Junior Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master.....__ 7.22
John S. Lampert, Past Master
Traver - - - - - - N o . 294....M. M. Mercer, Senior Warden-·----···· 29.34
Clare Nelson, Past Master
Mt. Jackson · - - - N o . 295...Jiarry Schaffner, Past Master
Silver Gate
No. 296....Henry F. LaRose, Master --···-······-·- 60.84
Oakley D. North, Senior Warden
Ernest M. Newton, Junior Warden
Fred S. Weed, Past Master and Inspector 60.84
Warren W. Fitch, Past Master
Dunsmuir
297....Don C. Crowe, Senior Warden.----···- 35.70
Liberty
No. 299_..Edgar L. Wilson, Master _....- ..............._... 3.94
Herbert A. Loynes, Senior Warden
Charles B. Weast, Junior Warden
Redlands _ _ _ _ _ No. 30CLRoy E. Renner. Senior Warden...____ 56.74
Glen Solberg, Junior Warden
Ontario --·-·--··No. 301._W. Ray Bilke, Senior Warden..._____ 54.50
James W. Davidson, Junior Wardm
Santa Lucia ----..No. 302_Fred Young Mar, Junior Warden·--··-····-··· 13.56
Porterville
--..No. 303_.Qyde L. Simpson, Master
33.28
Frank V. Myers, Senior Warden

-----No.

Name of Lodae

No. ol Lod1e

bpteKDtativca

313
Milea&e Allowed

Reedley ----No. 304....Brlney E. Wammack, Senior Wa,rden__ 29.64
Azusa - - Na. 305...Richard E. Lindsay, Master -·-·--·--··· 53.24
Arthelle A. Ingram, Senior Warden
Stephen E. Skidmore, Paat Muter and
Inspector
53.24
Geo. A. Garrett. Past Master
Boone Ina, Past Master
Ashlar..
No. 306....William C. Hawkes, Master....._____ 56.04
Charles H. Howard, Senior Warden
Robert W. Nicol. Past Master and Inspector 56.04
Melvin Saunders, Past Master
Santa Monica ···-··--No. 307....Mont S. Foster, Maater·-····--···-·-··· -·- 51.10
Lawrence A. Smith, Past Master
Harry H. Williams, Past Master
Monrovia -·-----..No. 308....J. Donald Cameron. Master ·······--·--···- 52.64
Frank A. Welling_ton, Senior Warden
H. Victor Oark, Past Master
Oark P. Malcho, Past Master
Delano _
·-----No. 309_Marion L. Smith, Senior Warden.......___ _
34.02
Max H. Sears, Junior Warden
Ward Robertson, Past Master
Sisson ------No..310_ William W. Allen, Senior Warden. __ _ 34.72
Ralph N. Holden. Past Master
Los Banos
No. 312....James D. Eiland, Master ···-···-··-·-···-··-··· 11.02
Tehachapi _ _ _No. 313.._JohJl H. Birt. Master--·-···-······-·· ····-··· 40.78
Henry H. Bartholomew, Senior Warden
liarry J. Beauford, Put Master
George W. Bennett, Past Master
Temescal - - - - N o . 314....Kenneth A. Thomas, Senior Warden........_
57.28
Frank J. Morrell, Junior Wardm
Norwalk _..._ _ _ _ _No, 315_.Edgar Grove, Master - - - 51.94
George C. Taber, Senior Wardm
William L. Galbraith, Put Master
Sanger
·-----No. 316_Wayne Burk, Senior Warden__.._ __ 28.42
W. G. Barnhart, Junior Warden
Fallbrook
Na.317....Douglas Hamilton, Junior Warden......_ _ 58.86
Emmanuel _ _ _ _ _No. 318_Not represented
Hollenbeck _ _ _ _ _No. 319...Roy_ A. Wohlfarth, Master·--··-·-···- 51.10
E. Edward Oaggett, Senior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, Past Master and Inspector.... 51.10
Francis W. Peters, Past Master
South Gate -·--·-·--··--No. 320...Edward J. Olsen, Master -·-------·- 51.10
Henry H. Fickel, Senior Warden
Mark A. Green. Past Master
Carl W. Gross, Past Master
David H. Terry, Past Master
Alisa! ···-····-----No. 321._Andrew J. Pearce, Jr., Master....._ .............. 3.54
Lewis E. Lawson, Senior Warden
Harold C. Hansen. Past Master
Alhambra ······-·······.......No. 322....Gordon C. L. Rosa, Muter............................ 51.10
Joseph M. Yule, Senior Warden
Bruce F. Wiker, Junior Wardm
Whittler ····-·····--··__No. 323....George C. Abrahamson, Master-·····-···-·- 52.38
Roscoe W. Fania,. Junior Warden
Clarence W. Peck, Put Master

374

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name of Lodae

No. of Loda:e

Repraentativa

Mlleap AU~

Corona --·············__No• 324.••.Charles D. Morrison, Master..•-................... 52.20

Alfred W. Talley, Senior Warden
Gordon F. Porter, Past Master and
Inspector -······················................................ 52.20
L. P. Bag11ard, Past Master
Walton Talley, Past Master
Consuela ....................- ••No. 325.....Robert F. Osmann, Senior Warden.............. 58.86
Needles -·········-···--No. 326.....Robert S. Griswold, Senior Warden............ 58.28
Carl C. Mikesell, Past Master and
Inspector --·-··--·-·-·························· 58.28
Long Beach ............•.._No. 327_Clinton M. Stickney, Master.......................... 51.10
Alvin V. Hylton, Senior Warden
Clark H. Shaw, Assistant Grand Lecturer.... 51.10
John H. Ferguson, Past Master and
Inspector ···-··-·······-·········.......................... 51.10
Redondo -···-·········-·-No. 328....William F. Martin, Senior Warden............ 51.10
William A. Boyes, Junior Warden
Leon G. Kelly, Past Master
Louis A. Tallman, Past Master
George S. Fairbrother, Past Master
Wilson 0. Wade, Past Master
Vallee de France..............No. 329...Louls V. Boidec, Senior Warden.................... 51.10
Charles A. Thomasset, Past Master and
Inspector ·--·-·-·--··-..···-········-··· 51.10
Edgar H. Jacot. Past Master
Yves C. Poupon. Past Master
Kilauea --·········--No.330-Jay W. Conquest, Senior Warden..•____ 383.90
Charles A. Shepherd, Past Master
Pacific Grove ............-No. 331._Claude Bush, Master ·--··----······-........ 10.60
Clifford B. Johansen, Senior Warden
Alvah R. Newsome, Junior Warden
Arch Balchin, Past Master and Inspector.... 10.60
San Pedro ........................No.332-Walter H. Wolfe, Jr., Master--.............. 51.10
Karl B. Meredith, Senior Warden
John Ramsey, Past Master and Inspector.... 51.10
333.-P. A. Goforth, Repreaentatlve.....-•. -....... 38.90
Alta
Covina --·······-·_No. 334.....R. A. Russell, Senior Warden
53.24
J. H. Clark, Junior Warden
West Gate ....................-No. 335....Milton M. Loeserman, Master........................ 51.10
Nate Adelson, Senior Warden
Martin G. De Haan, Grand Sword Bearer..- 51.10
Albert Gollack, Past Master
John M. Hayden, Past Master
Felixl. Jonas, Past Master
Max ichtenstein, Past Master
Fruitvale ..........................No. 336-Arthur L. Lindh, Master
Edward A. Tuchsen, Senior Warden
Lachlan S. Heath, Junior Warden
Frank R. Killinger, Jr., Past Master and
Inspector
Paul A. Brom, Past Master
Harold E. Fellows, Past Master
Robert S. Grant, Past Master
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Rudilph Jenny, Past Master
Gustave A. Lindh, Past Master
Walter A. Rose, Past Master
Fritz Schuler, Past Master
Harold 0. Sjoberg, Past Master
Harvey K. Taylor, Past Master

----····-----No.

375

Mame of Lodp
No. of Loda:e
Repreeentatlvee
Mileaaii AllOftd
Carquinez _ _ _ _ _No. 337....T. H. Cotton, Past Master and
Representative -·----·····--·-·-···· 256
Charles R. Morton. Past Master and
Inspector -·-·-···--·----···-··-···· 2.84
Richard P. Jones. Past Master
Glen N. Whitson, Past Master
San Jacinto ---···---No. 338....Cllff Moffett, Master ···--···-·········..···········--· 60.32
Fullerton ···-···---No. 339 ... L. M. White, Master -·---···---·--···..····-·-·-- 53.10
William T. Rodger, Past Master and
Inspector ···········--··--·-····-··----··--·- 53.10
C. Stanley Chapman, Past Master.•·--·-·- 53.10
William L. Currie, Past Master
Oxnard _,..........._ . ___No. 341...•Carl E. Mumper, Master -·-·······-···-·-······· 45.44
San Fernando ••_ .._ .....No. 343....Clark H. Kirkham, Master.........................-- 49.42
Gerald E. Shelton, Senior Warden

Starr King --···-·-·-No• 344•..•Charles Becker, Master
Harold E. Kren, Senior Warden
Manuel Stern, Junior Warden
Charles M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Master
Hal Curtis, Past Master
Merrill N. Howe, Past Master
Ben A. Katz, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Homer E. Stewart, Past Master
Haiman L. Wayne, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master

Brentwood ·-············---·No. 345-.Fc::f.·H~~!'J: ~~!~~7..-·---·-·
T. R. Craig, Junior Warden
Palo Alto ·--·---···No• 346....Herbert E. Simons, Master.:..........................
Ralph S. Brokaw, Senior Warden
Raymond A. Howe, Junior Warden
L. Harold Anderson, Junior Grand Warden
Robert N. Walker, Past Master and
Inspector ·--·-···-·--·--··-·-..·····-···
Adam B. Morten. Past Master
George W. Harms. Past Master
George E. King, Past Master
McKinley _
No. 347....Clifton B. Jones, Master
Floyd M. Hilty, Senior Warden
Rolla L. Eubanks. Past Master and Inspector
John R. Garside, Past Master
Walter T. Helms, Past Master
Leon Michel, Past Master

San Bernardino ............_No. 348-~~~v~~~~--·-·---·-··--

5.32
3.34

3.54

SS.62

Victor N. Hodge, Past Master
Sequoia _ _ _ _ _No. 349_1.awrence E. Muntz, Master
Frank D. Gatter,/,r., Senior Warden
Ralph W. York, unior Warden
Henry S. Savage, Jr., Past Master and Inspector
·
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
E. Herbert Phillips, Past Master
Herbert S. Bigelow, Past Master
E. Homer DeFoe, Past Master
John R. MacGregor, Sr., Past Master
Kenneth S. Thomson, Past Master

376
Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Repruentativea

371

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mllea~ Allowed

Palestine ---··---···----No. 351....Benjamin R. Jordan, Master...•.. ~---········-······· 51.10
Richard C. Stockton, Senior Warden
Veme J. Dapper, Past Master
Henry E. Lestmann, Past Master
Sunset ·-·-···-······-··..·······No• 352....Harry M. Swanson, Master............................ 51.10
Robert J. Boomer, Senior Warden
Fred G. Doan, Junior Warden
Rollie W, Miller, Past Grand Master............ 51.10
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
Loyd C. Campbell, Past Master.................... 51.10
Ralph H. Head, Past Master
Pinole -----·-····----...No. 353....Chester C. Clark, Master.............................. 2.14
Howard C. Nicholson, Senior Warden
Presidio ···-····-················No. 354....Frederick W. Keyworth, Junior Warden
Joseph M. Ruggiero, Past Master and
Inspector
Alexander L. Groce, Past Master
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master
Robert A. Ritchie, Past Master
William D. Verbarg, Past Master
Edward H. Wilkens, Past Master
Hollywood ........................No. 355 ....Robert T. Gilmore, Jr., Master........................ 51.10
Wallace H. Beaudry, Senior Warden
Bert C. Breeze, Junior Warden
Samuel Steelman, Past Master and Inspector 51.10
Leo E. Anderson, Past Master...................... 51.10
Earl W. Bolter, Past Master
John T. Bond, Past Master
George T. Foell, Past Master
Ralph L. Loaan, Past Master
Samuel A. MacDonald, Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
Mill Valley -·--·-··-No. 356....Ralph E. Brott, Master
Melvin J. Schallock, Senior Warden
Howard A. Ronning, Junior Warden
Kent 0. Seymour, Past Master and Inspector
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master
Albert W. Miller, Past Master •
Wesley V. Smith, Past Master
Buena Park ·-······-··--No. 357...Edwin A. Robinson, Master.·-··-··················· 53.10
Robert H. Houghton, Senior Warden
Ted R. Siems. Past Master and Inspector.... 53.50
Golden State · -- -·--·No. 358....Willlam P. Kretschmer, Master.................... 51.10
H~ A. McFrye, Senior Warden
Winfield R. Cram. Past Master
Maurice G. Henn, Past Master
Loyalton --···-··-···-No. 359....Joseph 0. Goss, Master.·-·····-········-··-····· 30.60
San Francisco --····-·····-No. 360....Herbert B. Dean, Master
Leland C. Daugherty, Senior Warden
Albert C. Thomason, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary
Charles C. Brewer, Past Master
Everett E. Burnworth, Past Master
Alfred B. Edwards, Past Master
William F. Jebe, Past Master
Walter A. Parker, Past Master
Victor E. Perry, Past Master
Joseph A. Sanguinettl, Past Master
Harold W. Smith, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

Mileage Allowed

Fort Bragg ··--··----No. 361....Tames R, Whalen, Senior Warden................ 16.56
Harry Burrows. Past Master and Inspector 16.56
Charity ---···--···-No. 362....William B. Enochs, Master---···············
·
Don F. Hartman, Senior- Warden
Theodore E. Schenk, Junior Warden
·
A. C. Currie, Past Master
G. S. Robson, Past Master

4.82

Berkeley -··---··-.No. 363....William H. Adams, Master
Freeman W. House, Senior Warden
Robert P. Arnold, Past Master
Oliver E. McLean, Past Master
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
Willits _ ................,_No. 365....Gerald W. Collier, Master----··-·-·-····-···· 11.66
Bruce B. Steadman, Past Master
Las Palmas ---····--·-No. 366....R. D. Hargrave, Master.......•..---················· 27.52
Thomas E. Dispennette, Senior Warden
Wayne W. Hearn, Junior Warden
Thurman D. Moyers. Past Master
Oscar C. Olsen, Past Master
James A. Hopper, Past Master
Rhine G. Meyering, Past Master .
South Pasadena -·-···-No. 367....Giles L. Pellerin. Master-····-····-·-····-···-···· 52.20
Edwin S. Sater, Senior Warden
Ralph W. Cutler, Past Master -·············· 52.20
John W. Shenk. Past Master
Unity --···---····--No. 368•.•.Willlam E. S. Jarrett, Senior Warden........ 51.10
Guy B. Mize. Assistant Grand Lecturer......... 51.10
51.10
Ocean Park ···-··············-No. 369...~r!d ~- ~~r.s=~;·w-;~·-···············
Hal A. Dumas, Junior Warden
Dwight C. Freeman. Past Master and
Inspector..
---·-··-·-··· 51.10
Hamilcar Smith. Pait Master
Amity _________No. 370....Duncan S. Eilts, Mast~r
Lewis H. Johnson, Semor Warden
L. Robert Koenig, Jr., Junior Warden
Paul A. Pflueger, Assistant Grand Treasurer
Maurice E. Coffey, Past Master and Inspector
Henry 0. Hammerich, Past Master
Nelson D. Christenson, Past Master
Raymond M. Henry, Past Master
Rudolph F. Lange, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Thomas J. McHenry, Past Master
Nathaniel 0. Slate, Past Master
le Progres de J'Oceanle....No. 371....Millard A. Blair, Senior Warden-..•••.....•.. 350.90
Alexander D. Potts, Past Master and
Inspector
·-·-···-··-- 350.90
Gardena _ _ _No. 372....Harold C. Mclendon, Master...................... 51.10
LeRoy W. Schlaegel, Senior Warden
Carl L. Carlson, Junior Warden
·
Keith W. Schlaegel, Grand Marshall............ 51.10
George Cunningham, Past Master
William W. Pitman, Past Master
John G. Snider, Past Master

.

378
Mame of Lodp

Ko. ol Loc11e

lcpraentali-

Mlleep AJJow.i

Weat Lo. AngeJa..._No. .373_..Norton H. Langford, Master·--·-·-······· Sl.10
Claude J. Hlmmelein, Senior Warden
Fred H. Blanchard, Past Master
Harry T. Robinson, Past Master
Ernest A. Wells, Past Master
Jewel ····-············-··-·····No· 374__William A. Van Omum, Master
Robert W. Sinai, Senior Warden
Robert T. Parry, Junior Warden
Charles E. Anderson, Grand Organist
Herbert H. Schultz, Past Master and Inspector
Philip M. Bovero, Past Master
J. H. Adams, Past Master
A. R. Engle, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Elmer James, Past Master
S. C. Leonhaeuser, Past Master
Thomas Parry, Past Master
Wl]]ard C. Schaaf, Past Master
Richmond ------·······No. .375.-.Walter F. Beige], Master
Albert D. Elledge, Senior Warden
Cyril J. MacMeekin, Junior Warden
James H. Conner, Past Master
Myrton W. Erickson, Past Master
Paul H. Freiermuth, Past Master
James L. Halley, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
Francis Drake --·····-··No. 376•. _William I. Parmer, Master
John D. Dean, Senior Warden
Emmons McClung, Junior Warden
George E. Hall, Past Master
Fred Snyder, Past Master
Arteata -····------No. 377.-Harold R. Whitney, Master--··-······-·········

Robert G. Goar, Senior Warden

379

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCJ!EDJNGS OF THB

.

52.38

Mizpah -----····-··-No. .378....Hugh H. Farnham, Senior Warden.............. 51.10
Joseph E. Stephens, Junior Warden
Charles W. Lunsford, Past Master and
Inspector ·--··········---······-----················ 51.10
Fiilmore ---·--·--_No. .379....Jerry W. Garrison, Maater--·-·-···············- 46.00
Joseph B. Higgins, Senior Warden
Ernest H. Hurd, Junior Warden
Lester A. Price, Past Master
Herman J. Haase, Past Master
Wm. Howard Price, Past Master
Huntington Beach _____No. .380.-Fred R. Swartz, Master·-·--············-···· Sl.10
Paul A. Burtner, Senior Warden
Ocean.s.tde ···-···-·-··-...No. 38l_Marton E. Martin, Senior Warden...•..•...·-··· 57.66
John Wm. Garey, Junior Warden
Kenneth C. Sfanley, Past Master and
Inspector ·-·--····-----·----·············- 57.66
em-Highland Park --····--No. .382_.cherles W. Wagner, Master.......................... 51.10
Paul L. Cornelius, Senior Warden
Harold P. Welltt, Past Master

Oros! - - - - . - N o . 383....Harold Morrell!, Senior Warden.-..•........ _ 30.34
Arthur P. Beckner, Past Master

Name of Loclac

El Centro

No. of Lod1e

lcp~tatlvea

Milcqe .Allowed

- - - N o . 38L.Logan R. Pulllam, Master'.------- 75.60
John E. Bowman, Senior Warden
Norbert P. Teater, Past Muter and
75.60
Inspector-------

Charles H. Knights, Past Master
H. H. Peterson. Past Master
Dinuba ----··-..No. 385....Harold E. Miller, Senior Warden-.-··-·-······
Clarence L. Fraser, Past Master and
Inspector ············--··-·--·-····-·····-··-····
Coalinga ·-··-···--No. 387.-Robert H. Frank, Senior Warden...•...•..•.••_..
Louis A. Simmons, Junlor Warden
No. 388.... Philip R. Chapin, Master
Parnassus
Carl H. Allen, Senior Warden
Ralph E. Olstad, Junior Warden
James E. Finley, Past Master and Inspector
Joseph C. Durhan, Past Master
George E. Kimball, Past Master
Samuel Miller, Past Master
Constant G. Simon, Past Master
Palos Verdes ·---·-·No. 389.._Richard S. Abramson. Master______
Mahlon H. Bullis, Senior Warden
Imperial ---···---No. 390__Luther L. Green, Senior Warden..·-·-·-····-···
Charles F. Maynard, Grand Standard
Bearer ···-·-···········-······-····-············
East Belt ________No. .391...Jnslee Pythias Rude, Maater.·-·-··--·············
German Rigmaiden, Senior Warden
Wallace H. Fiske, Past Master and
Inspector ····--··-··-·----·····-······--·······
West Lake ______No. 392....Clifford M. Hokom, Master............................
John A. Sickenberger, Senior Warden
tee T. Mullen, Past Master............................
Robert C. Peyton, Past Master......................
Walter L. Berger, Past Master
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
Stanley Cowin, Past Master
Clyde E. Hopkins, Past Master
Charles W. Jackson. Past Master
Vernon E. Mitchell, Past Master
Balder -··-·--..No. 393.. _Alvar F. Larson, Master
Roger S. Gowman. Senior Warden
Irving L. Harris, Junior Warden
Walter E. Anderson, Past Master
Walter Blomberg, Past Master
Le Roy W. Johnson, Past Master
Clarence D. Lindstrom, Past Master
Victor C. 0. Peterson. Past Master
Unlveralty _ _ _ _ _No. 394._.Clarence Dunbar, Master ~,...----Clarence L. Wilson. Senior Warden
!\iyron E. Smith, Past Master
Wm. T. Lisenby, Jr•• Past Master
Wm. E. Patterson. Past Master
Turlock _ _ _ _ _No. .395....R. B. Gartin. Master-=.,..---·-······-··-···
R. L. Collinson. Senior Warden
Carlos G. Beatty, Junior Warden
Apollo _ _ _ _ _ _..&No. 396.. J<arl D. Haberern, Master
David P. Russell, Senior Warden
L. Keith Barnard, Past Master
Ward M. Boring, Past Master
Wilbert S. Condon, Past Master
Clifford H. Noyes, Past Master
Carl E. Thau, Past Master

30.0i

30.04
33.26

51.10
75.18

75.60

11.46

11.46
51.10
51.10
51.10

51.10

9.88

380
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repreeentativea

381

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Rising Light --·-·-··---··No. 397....Clayton H. Oliver, Master·--······-·-··--·-· 51.10
Charles S. Spangler, Senior Warden
Leslie V. H1!9hes, Past Master
Charles W. Tritt, Past Master
Fraternity _ .••••.--·······-···No. 399.•..Howard E. Van Arsdale, Master.................... 4.12

Rafu:~t~c-~~~~~'...~~~--~-~-~~~~-~~---···········

Burlingame ···-···---··-No. 400....William J. Crosby, Master
Elverton B. Stark, Senior Warden
Warren B. Parsons, Junior Warden
S. Leslie Hawken, Past Master and Inspector
Kenneth R. Ford, Past Master
Wm. E. Provence, Past Master
William Wilkin, Past Master
Bay View ···-·-········-········No. 401....Robert E. Munk, Senior Warden
Arthur H. Triggs, Past Master
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley _______No. 402._Terence L. Whitington, Master...•·-···-·Harold C. Brownell, Senior Warden
·
Percy E. Palmer, Past Master
Y erba Buena -··-···--··-···No. 403....Hugh L. Burnett, Master
Darrell W. Lowder, Senior Warden
Herbert S. Taylor, Junior Warden
Lester S. McElwain, Past Master
Glendora -·--··-····-·····No. 404..-John P. Wolf, Master---··-·-··-·-·······Alva W. Snodgrass, Senior Warden
Moneta ·········--··--····_&• 405....Cecil E. Bodenhamer, Master.·-·-····-·-··
George R. Cobb, Senior Warden
Louis L. Cunningham, Past Master and
Inspector
Arthur L. Bell, Past Master
Reeves W. Baughn, Past Master
Lee D. Mathews, Past Master
J. Stanley Watkins, Past Master
Burbank ~-········--·-No. 406....lo5e2h D. Lamphier, Senior Warden.....·-···W. D. Hopkins, Junior Warden
Dariiel P. Haworth, Past Master
La Mesa ····-···-···--No. 407...Austin D. Hinck, Master......·-··-··············-·····
Lyle H. Williams, Senior Warden
Chester D. Blanchard, Junior Warden
A Jolly Benbrook, Past Master

4.12

74.48

53.50
51.10

51.10
61.44

Sierra Madre ---··-·--..:-_No. 408....Jrh~~- f~%!1~~-w;;d;;;-····-· 52.20
Honolulu _________No. 409....0rville L. Krick, Senior Warden....•..·-···-·-· 350.90
Robert Edgar, Past Master and Inspector.... 350.90
Charter Rock ····-··--·_.No, 410....Stanley C. Jackson, Master
Ralph A. Stanley, Senior Warden
Allen J. Gou1d, Junior Warden
Delmar G. Bailard, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
Clare W. Wilson, Sr., Past Master
William D. Wisdom, Past Master
Perris --·-·--__No. 41 L ..R. H. Spencer, Past Master and
Representative -··-··-··············-················· 57 .M
Calexico -···----..No. 412.•.•James W. Phipps, Master··-··········-············· 76.30
.
Albert L. Brooks, Senior Warden

Name of Lodge

No. of Lod11e

Repr-.ntativea

Milca11e Allowed

Arlington ····-···..--··-·····-No. 414....Frank T. Kester, Master ................................
Newell R. Chesterton, Jr., Senior Warden
Carl F. Peters, Past Master and Inspector..
Silver Trowel ········--No.415....Van A. Gatewood, Senior Warden................
Robert Hennon, Junior Warden
Lindsay ···•·········-·····---No. 416.-C. M. Scott, Master
-·················--·
W. H. Lyon, Senior Warden
L L. Leeper, Junior Wardm
A A. Daniells, Past Muter
Clovis ·-··········-···-····-No. 417....Howard B. Stafford, Senior Warden.............
Julius C. Galliano, Past Master
George E. Talbert, Past Master

Elysian ····---·······---·-··No. 418....~:U~n~Tuik!~~~y~s!:~-w;;d;~········
Donald J. Lavenbarg, Junior Warden
Henry 0. Coley, Past Master
Upland ···-·-···-···-·-··--&. 419._.Michael J. Hanna, Senior Warden..·-····Wm. P. Buttery, Junior Warden
J. Harry Snowden, Past Master and
Inspector ···-·····---··-···················-··
Kerman --·--····-··-·····No. 420....Roy I. Gregory, Master--··················Inglewood --····-···-·-··-No. 421...Eugene L. Mamath, Master-·---···--·-··Harvey L. Tyrrell, Senior Warden
John A. Dull, Past Master
Eagle Rock ·--···-·········--No. 422....Clyde E. Sewright, Master-......................
Ian S. Wharton. Senior Warden
James E. Calhoun, Junior Warden
William E. Keogh, Past Master and
Inspector-·-··-··----··--·······················
York ···-··--··-······-·----No· 423....Wallace E. Jobe, Master---·····-··········-·Arnold D. Price, Senior Warden
Exeter ······-·-····-··--··-···No.· 424....C. Gordon Shepherd, Past Master and
Representative ···---·--·-·-···············--··
Holtville -·····----·....No. 425....Monroe A. Horton, Senior Warden...............
Midway -····--··-----No. 426....Charles P. Renz, ~--·-·-··-···-J. T. Herrod, Sr., Senior Warden
Robert A. Smith, Senior Grand Steward....
Chino Valley ...-··-···-···-No. 427....Peter S. Johnson, Senior Warden.._____
R. A. Heaton, Junior Warden
San Dimas ··-·········-··.:...-No. 428....James A. Black, Senior Warden...·-······-·· Albert E. Carroll, Past Master and Inspector
Pittsburg --····---··--No. 429....Harry J. Carton, Master..·-·····-·--·---··-·Christopher L. Davidson, Senior Warden
J. L}'Dden LaVere, Junior Warden
W. Ralph Anderson, Past Master and
Inspector ···--···-··-·-·--···-·················McCloud .................... _•.••No. 430....Paul L. Thornburg, Senior Warden...............
Chas. S. Hogan, Past Master and Inspector
Phil N. Myers, Past Master-·-·····-················
Alpha ·--······--···-·-·No. 431 ....Elwood C. Frisvold, Master
Lloyd N. Mason, Senior Warden
Frank E. Lober, Junior Warden
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
Alfred L. Atwood, Past Master
Henry L. Clarke, Past Master
John MacGrath, Past Master
Anshelm S. Remell, Past Master
Joseph B. Trimeloni, Past Master
Fred L. Vogeli, Past Master
Martin Wiltz, Past Master

51.10
51.10
51.10
32.46

28.22
5uo

54.62
54.62
26.54
51.10
51.10

51.10
51.10
31.86
76.30
39.00
39.00
54.50
53.64
53.64
4.24

4.24
35.42
35.42
51.10

382
Name of Lodp

GRAND. LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodae

Jleprueota ti-

Mileage Allowed

12.30
Hammonton -···-···- No. 433-Theo dore F. Dodson, Maater-·--····--39.20
··-No. 43.f_John E. Colbert, Maater- --·····-··
Mar:lcopa _
A W. Scott, Senior Warden
Warden
Fairmount _ _ _ _No. 435_John H. Devlin, Senior
William K. Raines, Junlor Warden
Edward R. Pootel, Past Master
54.20
Claremont ------ No. 436....Harold C. Powell, Senior Warden.·-···········
44.46
....
Lancaster ··--········ ··--No. 437...Leonard C. Meyer, Master........................
James E. Bacon, Senior Warden
A. C. Cobb, Junior Warden
Carl C. Hedgecock, Past Master
E. A. Rosecrans, Past Master
John C. Sinn, Past Master
L.A. Walker, Past Master
-······-- 51.10
No.438....Emil J. Kramper, Master..·--·--····
Acacia
Albert Kiechle, P.M. and Inspector............._ 51.10
7.32
No.439...David B. Vest, Junior Warden.- -··---...-·- 7.32
Tyrlan
Delbert E. Luck, P.M. and Inspector............
Standard --···-- No. 440....George L. Bertotti, Junior Warden
No. 441_Vlvlen E. Hicks, Senior Warden.................. 60.84
Coronado
Donald W. Stubbs, Junior Warden
Glen C. Holbert, Past Master
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
William L. Kuykendall, Master.................... 60.M
....
442
No.
Blackmer _
Dustin D. Parkhurst, Senior Warden
Carl B. Mullins, Junior Warden
Charles J. Savage, P.M. and Inspector........ 60.84
Oscar E. Hanson, Past Master
Schofleld _ _ _ _ __No, 443-.Robert C. Kong, Senior Warden.....·--··-···· 350.90
....No. 444_•.Vernon C. Miller, Senior Warden.· -·-·-··· 43.18
Carpinteria
Arthur H. Christensen, Junior Warden
Wilshire _ _ _ No.445-H . Gordon Bleckner, Master..--··--··-· ···· 51.10
John M. Wright, Senior Warden
Herbert A. Huebner, Grand Orator... _ ...... 51.10
Frederic E. Clark, P.M. and Inspector........ 51.10
No. 446.-Jack W. Steams, Senior Warden.___ ..,._ 52.80
La Puente
No. 447Jrank Schmidt, Senior Warden........____ 51.10
Torrance
1.90
Mt. Dlablo _ _ _ _ _No. 448-.Robert B. Berglund, Master
B. L. Jackson, Senior Warden
No. 449....William J. Davis, Master
Park
William li. Osborne, Senior Warden
Adolf G. Resler, Junior Warden
Reginald Duden, Past Master
Robert K. Huppert, Past Master
Sidney L. Solomon. Past Master
Van Nuys -·----.N o.450....Howard H. Colvin. Master............................ 51.10
Victor M. Kimble, Senior Warden
•
Harold S. Morrison, P.M. and Inspector...-. 51.10
Reginald Fudge, Past Master....-.................. 51.10
Carl B. Sartwell, Past Master
........................ 51.10
Montebello -·-..N o. 451..Jra Vick, Master..
Rolla J. Smith, Senior Warden
Merville L. Lamb, Past Master
Frank L. Sutliff, Past Master

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodae

Rcprcaentatlva

383
Mtleap Allowecl

San Pasqual - - N o . 452-Cliff ord W. Fawcett. Mute r·---- - 52.20
Edward J. Houck, Senior Warden
Walter F. Kress, Past Master

Bethlehem - - - - - N o . 453.-Arth ur J. Bender, Master
Stephen S. Gorewitz, Junior Warden
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
Walter B. Jones, Past Master
Stanley W. Kerley, Past Master
George M. Orchard, Past Master
John C. Painer, Past Master
Crocker ····---- --No. 454--Alfred Turman, Master
Colvin F. Toland, Senior Warden
Ralph G. Riches, Past Master and Inspector
M. jay Jensen, Past Master
Leonard Wester, Past Master
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West -.---N o. 455....lames Evans, Master
Herbert H. Eling, Senior Warden
George E. Harris, Junior Warden
Chester R. MacPhee, Past Master
Adolph P. Bilay, Past Master
Earl B. Brehaut, Past Master
Thomas W. Rollinson, Past Master
ell D. Hatch, Senior Warden.. _ _ _
51.10
457....Russ
No.
_
_
_
_
_
Ramona
Arnold G. Robertson, Junior Warden
Jack E. Anderson. Past Master
51.10
James E. Lewis, Master
....
458
No.
___
.
Orme
S.
Henry
John T. Hope. Senior Warden
Milton H. Lang, P.M. and Inspect or_ 51.10
Merwyn N. Hollister, Past Master
William B. Mott, Past Master
Riverbank - - - - - N o . 459_Carl A Schallhorn, Jr., Senior Warden -. 8.76
Mount Oso _ _ _ __No.46 0..-Warren Harrison. Senior Warden.... ___ 6.08
No. 461....Ray G. Smith, Senior Warden
Argonaut - · ·
George H. Taylor, Junior Warden
Earl A. Caldwell, Past Master and Inspector
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
Walter S. Flowers, Past Master
William 0. Kuchlenz, Jr., Past Master
Sidney N. LeFiell, Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
Joserh A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Car Walter, Past Master
No.462....Thomas W. S. Wu, Master
Paul Revere Maurice R. Amsden, Senior Warden
Abe B. Epstein, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer
Lowell H. Beckendorf, Past Master
Roy C. Lemoge, Past Master
Henry Schindel. Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master
Jacob Warshaw, Past Master
5.80
illlam Y. Kirkman, Master
No.463-W
..
____
Morgan Hill
L. Thomas, Senior Warden
L. Whidden, Put Muter
W

Bum::,

384
Name of Loclae

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repraentativea

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
MJlease Allowed

Alta Vista --·····--·-·-No. 464..•.Harold Stelling, Master
George Siebel, Junior Warden
Earl L. S. Bagot, Past Master
William Butcher, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Raymond A. Hurst, Past Master
Harry L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Center _______No. 465-.Emest J. Shagy, Senior Warden...·-··········- 27.52
Seba H. Glahn, Junior Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, P.M. and Inspector.......... 27.52
Marion A. Long, Past Master
No 466.....Blaine N. Miller, Muter.·-···-··············-···- 36.70
Libertas
H. Hoyt Irwin. Senior Warden
-·------- •

RaA:~i:!~·Jr:~lecturer............................

36.70
Robert J. Myers, Past Master........................ 36.70
Culver City ·-·---··--.No. 467-Duke P. Watson, Master.·--·--···············-···- 51.10
James K. Windsor, Junior Warden
D. G. Coombs, Past Master
Rockridge ··----·-No· 468-..Boyd W. Rea, Master
Charles M. Shelton, Senior Warden
Emil J. Lage, Junior Warden
P. Foss, Master----······· ····-···········- 53.24
9.-Alvin
-·-··-···---No.46
Yorba Linda
Lincoln ______ __No. 470... Arthur C.ohen, Master
Asa P. Button, Senior Warden
Halett Meilicke, Junior Warden
Alexander McBirney, Past Master
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Leonard T. Pockman, Past Master
Delta ------------N o. 471-..LeRoy A. Washburn, Master--·-·-·············· 7.22
William D. Platek, Senior Warden
William E. Offermann, Junior Warden
Taubner G. Hamma, Past Master
Loys T. Newton, Past Master
W. Craft, Senior Warden........·-···- 371.80
_George
..
472
...No.
.
Maui---- Albert L. Claytor, Junior Grand Steward ... _ 371.80
Eugene P. Jijine, Past Master and Inspector 371.80
E. C.ovington, Senior Warden.......... 68.26
473_.George
.
o
Blythe - - - - - - - N
C. Bird. Past Master
William
.•..
474
No.
Victory
Edwin C. Mathisen, Past Master
Otto Van Raven, Past Master
___._No. 475...J)on A. Burton, Master--····· ··--- 51.10
America
~
Leo J. Wilson. Senior Warden
--62.54
......
Warden.
Junior
White,
No. 476...Raymond M.
C.oachella _
39.20
____
.........
Master
McConaughy,
Temblor ----··--No. 477....Wesley W.
Thousand Oaks -···--No. 478....Basil C. May, Master
Lynn C. Guggan. Senior Warden
Stanley R. Williamson. Tunior Warden
R. P. Wisecarver, Past Master
Robert H. Stitt, Past Master
Golden Rule _ _ _ _ No. 479_..Roy E. Bartholomew, Master....................__ 4.12
Frank H. Moeller, Senior Warden
Edwin C. Van de Mark, Junior Warden
Leon E. Allen, Past Master
J. Ross Kennedy, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lod1e

Repraentativea

385
Mileage Allowed

Fellowship ····-····--No. 480.. _James A. Bottoms, Jr., Muter
Gerald G. Sabine, Senior Warden
Frank Leogrande, Junior Warden
Herman Zdler, Past Master
Bertram Holmes, Master
....
481
·-------No.
Mt. Davidson
Laurent A. Loustau, Senior Warden .
Thomas J. Bass, Junior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master
Harold Meyer, Past Master
A. S. Holden, Past Master
James M. Kemp, Past Master
Alfred H. Nicoll, Past Master
George A. Sohst, Past Master
·-·-·-- 51.10
Clarence F. Smith-••___ No. 482...Don C. Crvstal, Master
Thomaa J, Covington, Senior Warden
--No. 483...•James D. Kelso, Senior Warden.·--········ ··- 51.10
Bell --··-·····
Fred F. Elliott, Junior Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Put Master
........____ 51.10
Albert Pike ....._ _No. 48-t_Jac:k S. Smith, Senior Warden
George F. Con, Past Master
Robeit L. Harman, Past Master
Joseph R. Knapp, Past Master
Chowchilla ····--···-----No. 485_•.Henry W. Hampton. Senior Warden............ 24.44
Caledonia _ __ _.__No, 486-.Eustace E. O'C.onnor, Master--···- - · - 36.70
Floyd L. Kimball, Senior Warden
Ge<>!ge F. Menderhausen, Junior Warden
W. Waters Shugart, Past Master
No. 487....Charles J. Harris, Master_·--····· -···--·· 2.84
Vallejo
Lawrence A. Brid11.e, Senior Warden
Reuben Oaypool, Junior Warden
Thomas B. Pollard. P.M. and Inspector........ 2.84
Thomas E. P. Woods, Past Master
Edward Neuman, Past Master
8.36
No. 488.-John Lane, Senior Warden
Patterson
East Bay ·---·-·---No.4 89_..John A. Sobey, Master
Earl L. Daymude, Senior Warden
W. S. Armstrong, Past Master
No. 490....Jim Goodrich, Senior Warden...-........_____ 29.66
C.orcoran
No.491....Charles L. Wilhelm, Master
Woodstock
William F. Gorman, Senior Warden
Charles E. Jansen, Junior Warden
Alvin A. Horwege, Grand Tiler
Irving E. Ashton, Past Master
Frank E. Doherty, Past Master
George A. Klingman, Past Master
R. Emmett O'Brien, Past Master
M. Allen Powers, Past Master
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson. Past Master
Garvanza ····-------No. 492....William G. Stephens, Senior Warden.......... 51.10
Martin C. Nelson, Junior Warden
30.08
No. 493....Edward C. Knutson, Senior Warden......._
Atascadero
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
Walter W. B. Clayton. Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master

386
Name of Lode•

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Loda•

Repreantatlftl

Ac.om - - - - - - N o . 49i....Earl W. Temen. Master

Rudolph G. Johanson, Senior Warden
Carl R. Moore, Junior Warden
E. Lloyd Hanson, Past Master and Inspector
Samuel F. Worswiclc, Past Master
Lebanon _______No. 495_Horace 0. Warfield, Master
Robert H. Markuse, Senior Warden
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Theodore A. Schlosberg, Past Master
George R. Shoblo, Past Master
Harold S. Stein, Past Master
Bernard B. Stimmel, Past Master
Jaclc Urban, Past Master
Aaron Wiener, Past Master
No. 497_Frank Krause, Master
Premont
Walter M. Beers, Senior Warden
-----Frank I. Hess. Junior Warden
Melvin Oredsen, Past Master
Stockton ----·········-No. '498._Lloyd V. Dronberger, Senior Warden.......... 7.22
Qyde E. Davis, Junior Warden
Capital Qty ---···--No. 499....Charles A. Dean, Jr., Senior Warden............ 7.64
Roosevelt - - - - - N o . 500....Hagop Hagopian, Master
Robert 0. Reynolds. Junior Warden
Marvin K. Qoyd, Past Master
Joseph ~ell, Past Master
Westwood _ _ _ __No. SOL.Harold L. Bredstrand, Senior Warden........ 37.94
Wayne Gleason, Past Master
William L. Beavers, Past Master
Eugene L. Smith, Past Master
ffarbor _ _ _ _ _ _No. 502....Charles L. Stanley, Master
Harry J. Brande, Senior Warden
Calvin H. Hull, Junior Warden
Point _ _ _ _ _ __No. 503.•.Robert V. Waylett, Master
Don L. Davis, Senior Warden
Victor Prenk, Junior Warden
Colvin W. Hides, Past Master
Seaside _ _ _ _ _ _No. 50i....Harvey Menard, Master................................. . 51.10
Gauss Loper, Senior Warden
Arthur R. Moberg, Sr., Junior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, P.M. and Inspector.... 51.10
Moses E. Lewis, Jr.. Past Master
Wm. T. Corbusler, Past Master
Wm. J. Courtlour, Past Master
J. Everett Houser, Past Master
George D. Magruder, Past Master
I. Miller, Senior Warden.-·-······· 53.50
505._.Will!am
No.
Silver Cord - ·
Olen F. Turner, P.M. and Inspector...- ....... 5350
Mount Olive _ _ _ __No. 506....Kenneth Ellsworth, Senior Warden.-·--····- 51.10
Russell Northrup, P.M. and lnsp«tor.._._ 51.10
Karl V. Johnson, Past Master
Fred A Kelsey, Past Master
Alvin W. Wendt, Past Master
El Segundo _ _ _ _No. 507...Jra W. Ford, Senior Warden..--··-·---.. 51.10
Joppa - - - - - - N o . 508....Walter E. Fleharty,
Past Master and Representative....-·-··· 28.08

No. of Loda•

Name of Lodp

Repraentatlva

387
Mlleap Allowed

..No. 509...Robert B. Owen. Senior Warden.................. 51.10
Robert Wilkins, Junior Warden
No. 510_..SekuJ Speich, Muter---..-··--·-..···- 4.12
Cupertino
Norman C. Christensen. Senior Warden
William W. Sharp, Past Mester
Sunnyvale ········---No.SIL.John W. Prizm!ch, Malter--··-···-··········· 3.74
Oyde E. Waltrip, Pest Muter
512....Neal J. Baggett, Master.·-----···-·--···· 51.10
Palms
Roy M. Foss, Senior Warden
Lloyd H. Shelton, Junior Warden
William S. Kelly, Past Master
513.....Robert G. Swan, Master....••...·-···-········-······· 51.10
Cahuenga
John W. Baker, Senior Warden
Don H. La Grange, Jumor Warden
Roy C. B_ry_an, Past Mastier'---······-···- 51.10
Clarence W. Murphy, Past Master
Chas. L. Webber, Pa.at Master
Ray L. Whitney, Sr., Past Muter
SH-..Harry B. Green, Master
Argonne
Joseph J. Pepe, Senior Warden
lienry A. Christensen, Past Master
David M. Taylor, Past Mester
Vermoat Square _____No. 515-Charles P. Barton. Master..........- ....... _......... 51.10
Ralph C. Ball, Senior Warden
Albert E. Linde, Past Master
George E. Ruppers, Put Muter
Taft - - - - - - N o . 5 1 6.._WilJiam 'P. Knick, Senior Warden... _........... 39.00
Jennings E. Muir, P.M. and Inspector........ 39.00
Mount Vernon ··-·--No. 517....Ralph R. Chelifoux, Master
Alfred Stettler, Junior Warden
Edward J. Bird, Past Master
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Richard F. Fletcher, Past Master
Michael C. Kelly, Past Master
Alva V. Sligar, Past Master
Walter L. Stoblng, Past Master
Charles J. Thompson, Past Master
No. 518....R. Daryl Collines, Senior Warden..-.....-···- 60.84
La Jolla
Donald C. McDonald, Junior Warden
Harry H. Alman, P.M. and lnspecror............ 60.84
Euclid ··---··--·-No. 519....John D. Andrews, Senior Warden.........·-···· 51.10
520....Ralph Fenster, Master...·--·-·-·----···-···- 51.10
Ionic
Sam Fleishman, Senior Warden
Bruce Avon. Past Master
Claude Lenz, Past Master
Nathan Schwartz, Past Master
Benjamin Franklin •.-

--·----No.
-·-----No.

-·--···---No.

--·----·--·--No.

Piedmont --····----No. 52L.Albert E. Buechsen, Master
Edward Caruso, Senior Warden
Willard Scott, Junior Warden
Edward H. Pitcher, Grand PursuJvant
C. Porter Evans, Past Master
Harold E. Haclcer, Past Master
Walter F. Schag, Past Master
Sunrise

_.No. 522.._A J. Victor, Master.·-------····--··-·· 51.10
Norman M. Lethin, Senior Warden
Hubert L. Hall, Past Muter

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

388
Name of Lodp

389

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repruentativea

Mllcal!C Allowed

F. Willmon, Mut er--· ·--- - -. 51.10
Bellflower --·- ···- No · 523.-J ames
ohn H./on es, Senior Ward en
Allister • McKowen. Past Maste r
57.30
Wlllla m G. Sargent, Maste r.........- ............ _
....
524
No.
-....
.
Catal ina Island
George W. Wilso n, Senior Ward en
Franzen, Maste r
Georg e Wash ingto n --.... No. 525 ....Adolph H. ham, Senior Ward en
John News
Jos. H. Schneider, Junior Ward en
Clyde E. Bowen, Past Maste r
John Johnston, Past Maste r
Laury n H. Taylo r, Past Maste r
H. Green, Maste r
Bay City --··-··--·-···No. 526....Seymour
Harry L. Mishkind, Senior Ward en
Harol d Langfelder, Junior Ward en
Thos. A. Dethlefsen, Past Maste r
Aaron Lewis, Past Maste r
ett E. Jordan, Maste r___...........- ......__ 51.10
Emm
...
527
No.
nant
Cove
Edwi n S. DOuglas, Jr., Senio r Ward en
Floyd J. Lender, Past Maste r
MacKinnon, Master........................ 51.10
Beverly Hills ---·- ··.....No. 528...Danie lt A.
Rober E. Reel, Senior Ward en
Franklin P. Freeman, Junior Ward en
51.10
Frank Harwell, Jr., Grand Master................ 51.10
Rev. Kermit Castellanos, Grand Chaplain...... 51.10
N. Carl Peters. Senior Grand Deacon........
Joe Bookman, Past Maste r
C. Earle Crane, Past Maste r
Frederick A. Fox, Past Maste r
George E. Hall, Past Maste r
Frank M. Jenkins, Past Maste r
Wiley E. Williamson, Past Maste r
v, Senior Ward en..-......:.... _. 51.10
Loyal ty - ..- - - -..- .....No. 529....Natha n Katze
51.10
Joseph J. Strauss, Past Maste r
J. A. Visger, Past Maste r
tten. Senior Ward en.......... _ 27.52
Sun Garden - - . . N o . 530....Clyde R.R.Allbri
Hargr ave, P.M. and Inspector.... 27.52
. Herbe rt
Evere tt La Joya Coyle, Past Maste r
LeRoy Stubblefield. Past Maste r
G. Hansen, Maste r
.Cyrll
531...
No.
Alexa ndria .
William S. Brannan, Senior Ward en
Robert L. Wrigh t, Junior Ward en
Walte r J. Chisholm, Past Maste r
Ralph C. McArthur, Past Maste r
Burmaster, Senio r Ward en.......... 9.18
Smyr na - - -- ·---- No.5 32...Renr yL.W.
Lloyd Coates, Junior Ward en
ter·- --·-··-···- - 53.10
No. 533....John W. Grigsby, Mas
Azure - . .
Paul W. Trook , Senior Ward en
A Lowell, Maste r
Fores t Hill -·-- ·-·· No . 534__ Fredericlc
James A. Cardwell, Senior Ward en
Shelton H. Mitchell, Junior Ward en
__
A. Stone, Maste r..-............................ 51.10
Alexander Hamilton ...... _No. 535....Edwa rd C.
Clark, Senior Ward en
Wills on
Edwin F. Franke, Junior Ward en
51.10
Edwa rd J. Blickfeldt, Past Master..................
Howa rd B. Berry, Past M~ster
Archie J. Bush, Past Maste r
Roland W. Snow, Past Maste r

E~~;;·8:::W:;den..................................

Name of Loda•

No. of Lod1e

Repreaentadvea

Andre, Maste r
Seal Rock --··· -··-..--NQ . 536....Anthony A Senio r Ward en

Abe Baluklan,
Dunc an C. Smith, Junior Ward en
Abe Balukian, Past Maste r
Edwi n W. Bode, Past Maste r
Frank Gedgate, Past Maste r
Harry H. Jacobson, Past Maste r
Arthu r C. Kuersten, Past Maste r
Russell H. Sievers, Past Maste r
John L. Webb er, Past Maste r

W. Mettler, Senio r Ward en......... _
Utopi a -·--- ···-··.........No. 537....Glenn
Arthu r Beard, Past Maste r
Frederick K. Ehrha rdt, Past Maste r
Verne V. Goode, Past Maste r
George Leask, Past Maste r
Ascot

51.10

51.10
ert R. Taylo r, Maste r....- ...- ---·········
---------..No. 538...Rerb
Joseph J. Brady, Sez)lor Ward en
51.10
Inspector...-

Marti n 0. Veland, P.M. and
Lawler, Junior Ward en....._ _ 51.10
. Belvedere - ......- ........-.No . 539....Robert L.
eorge E . Gates, Ma ster ---- ·-··· -- 51.10
Queen Beach .........--N o. 540_G
Marv el Fairchild, Past Maste r
Paul C. Henne!, Past Maste r
e McPherson, Maste r
Henry Morse Stephens....No. 541...R. Archi
Robert K. Blanchard, Senior Ward en
Robert L. Richardson, Junior Ward en
Robert H. Taylo r, Past Maste r and Inspector
Wilso n E. Newlon, Past Maste r
Charles M. Davis, Past Maste r
Marv in D. Martin, Past Maste r
Mark A. Sawr!e, Past Maste r
E. Metzler, Mas ter.- --··..·-·· -..
North Hollywood ----N o. 542••..Gyrus
Lon V. Price, Senio r Ward en
Reginald Bunce, P.M. and Ioapector_.. _
ck. Jr.. Maste r...- ......................
Signal ___ ___ __No . 543_W.m. Chitti
Donald F. Evans , Senior Ward en
Myro n E. Roudebush, P.M. and Inspe ctor.Walte r H. Fike, Past Maste r
Jullus Tanlc, Past Maste r
er, Mute r............................ _
Glendale ....- .....___ _No, 544....0rren L. Walk Senio r Ward ea
Stanle y H. Lay,

51.10
51.10
51.10
51.10

51.10

d B. Lindert, Maste r
Jonathan --·---~No. 545....Rolan
Fred C. Wien eke, Senior Ward en
Perry M. Spencer, Past Maste r and Inspector
Samuel Brown, Past Maste r
Gitchel B. Rutherford, Past Maste r
51.10
e, Senior Waiden.......... _
San Gabriel - ..........._ ....,Ne. 546....W. Clare Moor
Jerome M. Miller, Junior Ward en

· · - 51.10
Harry L. Landi
A M. Foster, Past Maste r
ood, Mas ter.- ·-·--- -·-··· - 51.10
Trian gle _,,_ ..__.. _No. 548....Glen M. Chitw
Robert A. Bergeron. Senio r Ward en
Clarence M. Kenney, Junior Ward en
Geo. W. Ellis, Past Maste r

Arcad ia -·-·..

n, Mas ter-- --··..-·..
Jfo. 547....Martin B. Nelsong,
Senio r Ward en

390
Name of Lodp

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. ol 1.od1e

RepreaentatJ""8

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
M.1eap Allow.d

Justice - - - - - - N o . 549-Ralph R. Herdman, Master
Charles J. Mickelson, Senior Warden
Harold fiansen, Junior Warden
Paul A. Hackler, Past Master and Inspector
Andrew Burke, Past Master
William W. Barry, Past Master
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
George D. Hom, Past Master
Frank R. Jackson, Past Master
Percy V. Maury, Past Master
Emmet J, Pierce, Past Master
Seaport ·---·-·--N o. 550.... Harry T. Simpson, Master
Lester F. Bulloch, Senior Warden
Clark L. Mahany, Junior Warden
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
George A. Rudloff, Past Master
John G. Wullschleger, Past Master
Lalteshore - - - - - N o . 551....Ronald H. lohnson, Master
Ralph B. Vincent, Senior Warden
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Lee B. Ferguson, Past Master
Howard S. Gerrish, Past Master
Lloyd W. Hanson, Past Master
Thomas M. Lewis, Past Master
Ralph H. Moreland, Past Master
William E. Yocom, Past Master
Semper Vfrens _ _ _No. 552._H. L. Murie, Master·---- -·---·-···
J.C. Tario, Senior Warden
Alexander Duncan, Past Master and
Inspector --·-···-·············--··········--········
Oarence A. Trowbridge, Past Master and
Inspector--- -----·····-···· ·--·Educator - - - - - N o . 554....James A. Davis, Master
Lorrin W. Coughlan, Senior Warden
Hanford L. Clews. Junior Warden
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
Francis D. DeLong, Past Master
John L. Smith, Past Master
White Pine - - · - - N o . 555....Dysart Scribner, Master ··-···············-···········
Fairfax
No. 556....William Bickle, Master
David R. Lawrence, Senior Warden
Arthur D. Darrington, Junior Warden
Lynn E. Barr, Past Master
Hermosa - - - · - - N o . 557..••George L. Pottorff, Senior Warden.....•....- ..
Paul Thompson, Past Master and Inspector
Wilford G. Conner, Past Master
Point Firmin - - - - N o . 558-H. Otto Nielsen, Master---- --···Clyde M. Thomas, Jr.. Senior Warden
Craftsmen
---No. 559•._Roy V. Marsh, Master ·-··-·--··-···--· ·E. C. Bowman, Jr., Senior Warden
Plymouth _ _ _ _ _No. 560..•.A. Curley_Henrikson, Master
William H. Rury, Senior Warden
Peter M. Tripp, Junior Warden
Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master
Leon C. Babbitt, Past Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
James G. Disher, Past Master
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
Herbert M. McCracken, Past Master
John 0. Reynolds, Past Master
Gerald E. Rhine, Past Master

34.92
34.92
34.92

38.10

51.10
51.10
51.10

51.10

Name of Lod1e

No. of 1.od1e

RepruentatJvea

391
Mileaae All....d

East San Diego.••-···-·--No. 561....Frank Fodor, Senior Wardell.- --- 60.84
Willlam H. Owens, Junior Warden
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Pyramid -·
-No. 562....Julius D. Szakal, Master
Everett L. Walsh, Junior Warden
Germain W. Miller, Past Master
James M. Reed, Past Master
Fred E. Wider, Past Master
South Park
No. 563•.-Ralph M. Stone, Master_ _ _ _ __ 51.10
Noah T. Dickson. Senior Warden
Max F. Vail, Past Master
Foothill ---·---..N o. 564..-~seph G. Sylva, Master
. Gardiner Grady, Junior Warden
y A. Farley, Past Master
Paul S. Davia, Past Master
Ben L. Miller, Past Master
West Adams -·····-····_..No.56 5....Thomas S. Elder, Senior Warden__._ 51.10
Emmett A. Rathbun, Past Master
James A. Garfleld...•.••... _..No. 566-Merrill M. Baysoar, Master - - - - 51.10
Field Thompson, Senior Warden
Jerome E. Hester, Junior Warden
Ralph W. Collins, Past Master--· - 51.10
Searchlight __•...---No. 567.....Frank E. Smith, Master
51.10
Robert R. Hardman, Senior Warden
David Perkins, Past Master
Park Boulevard ____No. 568-John H. Powell, Master
William T. Friborg, Senior Warden
Ole Knudsen, Junior Warden
Lloyd M. Bradford, Past Master
Richard A. Browning, Past Master
Harry D. Hosac, Past Master
Willis V. McBeth, Past Master
Francis A. Roberts, Past Master
Chateau Thierry
No. 569-..Eugene Barnard, Master
Morris Steward, Senior Warden
Howard S. Kaulbach Past Master and Inspector
Walter W. Beck, Past Master
Harold D. Weber, Past Master
Military Service _ _ _No. 570___William R. Vann, Master
Louis H. Strohecker, Senior Warden
Rollinson F. Coffey, Junior Warden
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master
Chang Wah Lee, Past Master
William 0. Tillmannshoefer, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck..........No. 571.._J. Leroy Evans, Master
Raymond W. Campbell, Senior Warden
Charles C. Spiegel, Junior Warden
Elbert W. Davis, Grand Lecturer
Charles L. Briggs, Past Master
Ivan A. Schwab, Past Master
James Madison ········-···-No. 572_..Ray Smith, Master---·-··· ··--·····-··-- 51.10
Theodore C. Porter, Senior Warden
Hillcrest ____ ___No. 573_George F. Cake, Master
Harry H. Clayton, Junior Warden
Brown Zarley, Past Master

392
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

llepmentative.

Milea11e Allowed

S. W. HacketL-.·-·-·-No. 574-Robert E. Whitinq, Master..- --·······-Thomas H. Cann. Senior Warden
Vincent J. Thomps!)n, Junior Warden
Port Crook -··-·--No. 575....Rex L. Vaughn. Senior Warden. ..-..............
Otho Stewart, Grand Bible Bearer................
Reginald Reynolds, Past Master and
Inspector ..................·-······-···························

60.84
37 .82
30.92
37 .82

El Cajon Valley...._ .......-No. 576....Robert W. Nicholas, Senior Warden............ 61.84
Arthur B. Merrill. Junior Warden
Hugh D. Good, Past Master and Inspector 61.H
Sunnyside

51.10
No. 577....Willard S. Bolin, Master·-··-·-···--··-····William B. Harmon. Senior Warden
Louis H. Mahler, Past Master and Inspector 51.10
F. Wesley Davis. Past Master-- -..-··--··· 51.10
Guy A. Tolle, Past Master
John A. Low. Past Master

Progressive ___ ___No. 578....Charles E. Taylor, Master ............................ 51.10
James A. Carrier, Senior Warden
E.verett L. Halstead, Junior Warden
J. Howard Edwards, Past Master
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Roy 0. Miller, Past Master
Warren G. Hardlng....._._No. 579....Russell S. Rae, Master - - - - - ······--Fred Steinkamp, Senior Warden
John Kimbrough.Junior Warden
Carl W. Bralnar • Past Master
J. L. Missall. Past Master- --·- --·····
Henry R. Brown, Past Master

7.64

7.64

Santa Maria ····-----No. 580_..William R. Carlson, Master ........................ 63.84
Zenos Y. Coleman, Junior Warden
Security - · - -..-No.581....Kenneth P. Sward. Master·-··············-······· 36.70
Harry Weatherholt, Senior Warden
Leonard Jenkins, Past Master
Rialto ______................_No. 582....Emest P. Keasler, Senior Warden................ 55.62
Jack Krause, Junior Warden
Wasco _

No.583....John A. Mettier, Senior Warden......._ ....... 32.60
Fred C. Pritschke, Past Master and
Inspector ··-··--- - ·-- - · ·- ·--················ 32.60
Harry H. Pollock, Past Master

Harding -··-·--·..··-No· 584....Melvin A Pixley, Master____................ 51.10
Carl T. Laine, Senior Warden
Robert H. Mason, Junior Warden
Anson McArthur, Past Master and
Inspector--·-·------··········--········ 51.10
Louis R. Burak. Past Master
Arthur L. Jepson, Pa.st Master
Louis E. Sage, Past Master
Manchester ________No. 585....Wamer R. Halfpap, Master...................·-···· 51.10
Judson T. Sparks, Senior Warden
Elmer R. Lotz. Past Master and Inspector.... 51.10
Arthur R. Dixon, Past Master
Garden Grove ·---···No: 586....Walter K. Reed. Master -

393

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

-·-··················· 53.50

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lod11e

llepreaentative.

Mileage Allowed

Valley Porge -··---No. 587....Leslie S. Wayman. Master--··-··············· 51.10
George W. Pogg, Seolor Warden
EI Sereno
----No.588._Charles K. Wagner, Junior Warden............ 51.10
Wm. 0. Phegley, Past Master
Richard B. Ward, Past Master
Kauai --..·-·-·----No.589....Sau Yee Chang, Muter--·-·-·-..············ 371.80
Hector McD. Moir, Senior Warden
Compass ---·---····..No. 590_C. Erskine Lesley, Senior Warden...-.......... 54.08
Philip S. Hunt, Junior Warden
Raymond R. Bowman, Past Master
Escalon ··--·-----..No. 591...Dewey Henson, Master - - - · · · - - · · · 7.94
Charles Noden, Senior Warden
Wallace S. Nelson, Jwdair Warden

Tujunga ···- · - -·---No. 592....Robert C. Durkee, Muter.·-·--··-··-·····
Gerald M. Trisler, Senior Warden
All States ---··-...No• 593_.Everett W. Arey, Master ........... ___............
Frank R. Spencer, Senior Warden
Service -·--·-···--No. 594....Robert S. Ryerson, Master--····-·······
Kenneth E. Carmichael, Senior Warden
Morison G. Foster, Past Master
Theodoric C. Linthicum, Past Master
Ralph F. Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell....No. 595-Horace W. Day, Senior Warden...........-..
Pred Schunk, Past Master
Guardian ____ _...No. 596....Bernice L. Lackey, Master-·--···--Richard T. Jensen. Senior Warden
Frank J. Vieira, Past Master

51.10
51.10
51.10

51.10
51.10

Pearl Harbor - -··-·--No. 598.-i=i:;J£1F:'·~:-·-·-······················· 350.90
Carl E. Williams, Past Master
•
Carmelita -·-·---...No. 599.-Kermit A Jacobson. Muter___................ 52.20
Dr. Harol R. Benedict, Senior Warden
Jay D. Rinehart, Past Master
Lynwood -··---·-_No,60()_Charles W. Rattelman, Master ...................... 51.10
John L. Libsack. Senior Warden
Dallas 0. Coffman, Junior Warden
Jesse 0. Rulon, Past Master
32.72
Grizzly -··- ----No. 601-Carl C. Rathburn, Muter
_ _ _ _No,6Q2_Thomas J. McKimson, Master·-······-·-·- 51.10
Melrose
Edwin T. Church, Senior Warden
William R. Gutcher, Junior Warden
No. 603....Julian Le Sire, Master
Dimond ....-.....
Leonard McGihon, Senior Warden
Ray W. Fraser, Junior Warden
Frederick E. M. Jones, Past Master
George W. Shokal, Past Master
Jack M. Townsend, Past Master
---No. 60L.John D. Parsons, Senior Warden.................... 5350
Jubilee
John Kahler, Past Master
Glassell Park -·-····-···No. 605..-Lewls B. Meek, Maater--··············-···- 51.10
Prank W. Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector·-·-··-······--···-······················· 51.10
Sojourner _ _ _ ___No, 607....Stanley S. Wand, Senior Warden.-·-- · 52.64
Richard H. Mosher, Junior Warden

394

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Name of Lodp

No. of Lod1e

Repr...,ntatlvea

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileap AllOWecl

. . .. No. 608-J. Rollie Bowles, Senior Warden......._ _• 51.10
Calvin E. Apperson, Junior Warden
Donald G. Campbell, Past Master and
Inspector -·--··--······-··-······--·········· 52.20
Provident --·-··----·No· 609....Julian C. Willows, Master.·--·-········-········ 7.64
Carlyle F. Van Patten, Senior Warden
Franklin A. McDonald, Junior Warden
Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master......- ...... 7.64
Albert S. Walton, Past Master
Elmhurst ______ __No. 610.-Daniel E. Hensley, Master
Norman Dransfteld, Senior Warden
Luther A. Dawkins, Junior Warden
John H. Gilmour, Past Master
Canoga ·---··-······-·No. 61 I.._Theodore J. Davis, Master -···--··--·-·--·-··· 51.10
C. Clyde Matthews, Senior Warden
Norris A. Reavis, Past Master
Temple Oty ··----No. 612....Melvin 0. Nauqle, Senior Warden..._......... 51.10
Merle F. Logue, Junior Warden
William N. Pedder, Past Master and
Inspector--·····-----·-·-··----···--- 51.10
Rupert C. Curtis, Past Master
Three Pillars ·--·---..No. 613._.Wallace W. Wiederhold, Master........- ........ 7.64
Ashley R. Crooker, Senior Warden
7.64
Sam Lovell, Past Master and lnspector......Miles J. McClelland, Past Master and
Inspector -··--------·--·--··-·- 7.64
Larchmont _ _ _ _ _No. 614....Chester B. Little, Master................. _............. 51.10
Harvey A. Mylander, Senior Warden
Harvey W. Hill, Junior Warden
George P. Salm, Past Master and Inspector 51.10
Newcomb Candee, Past Master.................... 51.10
Willard Allers, Past Master
Herb H. Cooper, Past Master
D. Harold Shoopman, Past Master
615-Will>ur Raymond, Master --··------ 60.58
Hemet
Hubert J. Raymond, Senior Warden
Ray R. Bell, Past Master and Inspector...._ 60.58
R. E. Dolley..........._. __No. 616__Frank 0. Brostrom, Master--···-··-··- 51.10
Joe H. Tancre, Senior Warden
Big Bear _____ __No. 617_Earl M. Vigus, Senior Warden..·-···-·-···-··· 57.92
·
L. P. Boyle, Past Master
Southland - - - - · - N o . 618....C. Arthur Linsley, Master......-...................... 51.10
Raymond M. Hargus, Senior Warden
John A. Crosbie, Past Master and Inspector 51.10
C. Stewart Griswold, Past Master
John W. Street, Past Master
No.
619-Samuel
M. Whitthorne, Master·---··········· 51.10
Neptune - - - - ·
Victor I. McCarty, Senior Warden
Point Loma _ _ __No. 620....Gerald H. Williams, Senior Warden-..._
60.84
Meredith W. Goldstein, Junior Warden
Franklin A. Plank, Past Master
Harold K. Rankin. Past Master
The Gardens --·-··-·No. 621....Maaon G. Frazer, Master-----·--····-··..51.10
Will A. Hinson, Junior Warden
Rudolph Mezori, Past Master
Floyd S. Vandegrlft, Past Master
Granada -

-···--·...No.

Name of Lodp

No. of Lod1c

llepreeentatlvea

395
Mileap Allowed

Atwater -·--···-····---No· 622_Wllllam H. Thomas, Muter.·--··-·---···- 51.10
Charles F. Chapman, Senior Warden
S. Myrle Cloyed, Past Master
Menorah ··---··-··-··-·..No. 623_•.Harry P. Ritchie, Master............................_ 51.10
Nathan H. Shipper, Senior Warden
Samuel Greenberg, Past Master
Herman I. Taylor, Past Master
Fortitude ·----··---No. 624....Clarence M. Langlo, Master
Russell G. Worth, Junior Warden
Angeles Mesa -···········-··No. 625...E. Glenn Wilson, Master.............................. 51.10
George W. Meehleis, Senior Warden
Lowell M. Ayers, Junior Warden
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Gordon S. Duncan, Past Master
Chula Vista -···-····-·······No· 626....Veme F. McLean, Senior Warden..·-··-·-··· 60.84
Samuel L. Brinkley, Junior Warden
John H. Greife, Past Master
Charles E. Smith, Past Master
Lamanda Park ..........:.......No. 627....Leon 0. Jackson, Master----···-······-·- 52.20
John M. Jennings, Senior Warden
Harry E. Pompey, Past Master
Truth ·-···-·---·--·-···-No. 628....Joseph C. Benedick, Master-----··-··--···· 51.10 ·
ErveL.Chaiken,SeniorWarden
Oskar E. Kopperud, Past Master
Fairview --····-·-·-···-··No. 629....Robert H. Alrgood, Master..............· - · - - 51.10
John A. Howard, Senior Warden.......- - 51.10
Ben L. Irwin, Junlor Grand Deacon
Harold C. Mudgett, Past Master
Ingleside --·····-···········-·No. 630....John D. Miller, Master
Hilman H. Baker, Senior Warden
William C. Tanner, Junior Warden
Henry C. Clausen, Deputy Grand Master
Lloyd E. Wilson, P.G.M. and Grand Secretary
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Edison K. Quick, Past Master
Harry S. Walker, Past Master
Benevolence -··--····-No. 631 ....Monta W. Shirley, Senior Warden-........ 51.10
John E. Schlener, Junior Warden
Normal Heights ............_No. 632....Albert C. Snell, Senior Warden.-·········-····- 60.84
Benjamin T. Salmon, Junior Warden
Poinsettia ·-------No. 633....Lloyd M. Ryckman, Master_·····-······-·-·-··· -H.60
Roy W. Williams, Senior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Grand Master·-··· 51.10
Guy S. Harts, Sr., Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 44.60
Arthur Mead, Past Master
Victorville ·······--·-No• 634...Elton S. Goble, Master----················--· 59.ot
Jack J. Garrison. Senior Warden
Riverside -·-····-·-··-·No• 635....Charles B. Van Horten, Jr., Senior Warden 56.ot
Charles H. Grace, Past Master
NaDell E. Jensen, Past Master
Gordon F. Black. Past Master
John Marshall ···-····-······No. 636....Edwin F. Lippert, Maatu..·-·-·······-············ 51.10
Arlelgh R. Crow, Senior Warden
Atwill Morgan, Past Master
Mervin J. Davidson, Past Master
Edward A. Underwood, Past Master

396

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Name of Lod&c

No. of Lod1e

Repre1e11tatlvea

Mlleap Allowed

_____No. 637....William T. Overgard, Master---·-·-·- 51.10
E. Ray Koegler, Senior Warden
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
Indian Rock _______ No. 638....Robert 0. Evans, Master
Wallace S. Cordray, Senior Warden
Ross Cumminqs, Junior Warden
Frederick T. Herrick, Past Master
Palisades

Composite ·····-····-···········No. 639.._C. D. Danielson, Master..·-·-················-····
A. M. Mazure, Senior Warden
Louis M. Bloch, Past Master
64(LCyril B. Mills, Master
Veritas
Victor H. Irons, Senior Warden
·
Floyd 0. McLemore, Junior Warden
Irving J. Kohnke, Past Master
James A. Foehay..............No. 641....Eberhardt Kramer, Senior Warden..........·-···
La Cumbre _________No. 642....Jesse M. Sheegog, Senior Warden................
b. R. Bare, Past Master
W.W. McKee, Past Master.·-···············-···
Alta Loma -··-··-·----No. 643....Samel.ll D. Gann. Master.·-·············-······--···
Lomita ---····-············No.·644....Cyril J. Allen, Senior Warden..·-··-·-······-···
A. F. E. lrwin..•- ............. No. 645....Wm. W. Anderson, Senior Warden............
Earl J. Walker, Junior Warden
Metropolitan ···-·····-···-···No. 646....N. Fred Blozan, Senior Warden.·-·············Frank Everett, Past Master
---·-·No. 647....James M. Taylor, Senior Warden...........__ _
Hawthorne
Cornelius Frields, Junior Warden
John A. Owen, Past Master and Inspector._.
Damascus ···-··-·-······-..No. 648....Neil M. Ousley, Master..·-··-·-··-···--·
Edward L. MicZanko, Senior Warden
John Bright, Past Master and Inspector........
Lawrence L. Nichols, Past Master
Florence --····-··--····No. 649....Wi1lard G. Meler, Master---················Ernest F. Fully, Senior Warden
Fred W. Waitman, Past Master and

51.10

--·-------No.

Inspector ···-··········-····-·····-··················-···

Owen J. Marleau, Past Master
La Brea --·-·········----No· 650....Homer 0. Parrish, Master---··-············-·······
Francis C. Ford, Senior Warden
George W. Burch, Jr., Past Master
R. F. Burgan, Past Master
Hugh J. Cameron, Past Master
Charles F. Laverty, Past Master
Russell Lee, Past Master
Ray S. Smith, Past Master
John W. Swank, Past Master
Menlo Park ···-·-·-········.No• 651....Wade Ham_pton, Master ................................
Edward C. Buchanan, Senior Warden
Edward F. Gamble. Junior Warden
Oayton Elliott. Past Master
David Wright, Past Master
Crescenta Valley -··········No. 652....Herbert L. E11ner, Senior Warden......•- .......
Leonard E. Tingey, Past Maater
Fontana -·--··-·_..No. 653...Dolphen M. Beaver, Master.........·-················
William A. Banning, Senior Warden
No. 654..-Earl H. Smith. Master----·---···············Jordan Oyde S. Oeveland, Senior Warden

51.10
42.22

42.22
51.10
51.10
51.10
51.10
51.10
51_:l.0
55.62
55.62
51.10
51.10
51.10

3.34

51.10
55.H
51.10

Name of Lod&c

Repreoentatlvea

No. of Lodge

397
Mileage Allowed

Monte Vista _ _ _ _No. 655._Georg_e S. Cook, Master---·-·-··-···-- 51.10
J. R. Bennett. Senior Warden
53.10
_No. 656._Jiarold Freiley, Senior WardenCitro!
John D. Spreclcels........-No. 657....Arthur B. Shoot, Master---·--····-·-·--· 60.84
Francis M. Linderman, Senior Warden
hn M. Frenzel, Junior Warden
ohn T. Martin, Past Master
orace H. Blair, Past Master
Livingston -···-·····-No. 658..-Norman G. Gross, Senior Warden..........-- 10.72
La Habra ·-----·-·--No, 659_.JU!ey L. Blurton, Senior Warden---- 53.10
Arthur C. Schroeder, Past Master
Baldwin Park _____ __No. 660....Howard W. Hitchcock, Senior Warden....- 51.10
Robert J. Norman, Junior Warden
Fred L. Ferguson, Past Master and
·-·······---- 51.10
Inspector..
Malta --··--·----No.661.._Lawrence Jaques, Senior W~···-·-- 51.10
Ivan G. Bartram, Junior Warden
- - - - - 51.10
Henry Knox --·-·--·-··-No. 662.... -Wm. B. Sutoff. Masttt
Donald A. Piper, Senior Warden
A. F. Baughn, Past Master-·-·····--- 51.10
Paul R. Nichols, Past Master
Ojai -···-····--·----..No. 663.-Clyde E. Harral, Master ---········--··- 44.68
James E. Collins, Senior Warden
Merrill R. Shelley, Junior Warden
Kaweah --·-····-····--No. 665....Dolpho H. Beam, Junior Warden.-----···- 32.22
Reseda ----···-·····-No. 666.-Norman 0. Nelson, Master---·-·--- 51.10
Claude A. Tuttle, Senior Warden
Meridian _ _ _ _ _ No. 667....Harold E. Moody, Senior Warden.--..- - 51.10
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master-····--- 51.10
Frank W. Raddatz, Past Master and
Inspector-·------·······----- 51.10
Clarence E. Glaze. Past Master
San Gorgonio -··-··-·-·-No. 668_..John Raatz, Senior Warden..·-·--··-··-······-··· 58.58
Horace L. Roberts, Jr., Junior Warden
John P. Jarman----·-·---No. 669...Russell F. Brownetl, Master--·--··-··-- 4.12
Marcus W. Wood, Junior Warden
Ray M. Elam, Past Master
Nels H. Johnson, Past Master
.
Hebert Pritchard, Past Master
Greenleaf _____ _No. 670.-~ohn T. McNeilly, Master----·-··--·- 52.38
oe S. Davis, Senior Warden
ugh M. Topping, Put Master and
52.38
Inspector -·
San Clemente -···---No. 671....David H. Blakelock, Junior Warden..--- 55.94
Laguna Beach -·····-···-··No• 672....James W. Decker, Senior Warden..·-·-··-··· 54.34
W. Ben Sorrells, Past Master and Inspector 54.34
Far West -·-··--··---No. 673....James W. §pringer, Master
Robert K. Thompson, Senior Warden
William H. Hook, Junior Warden
Cas~r A. Bachtold, Past Master
Ian T. Kay, Past Master
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Fred E. Munson, Past Master
Earl B. Myers, Past Master
Los Cerritos _______ __No. 674....Archle Lloyd, Master ---·-··---·-·· 51.10
Howard C. Goldblatt. Senior Warden
Arthur J. Sissons, Past Master

~

398
Name of Loc1p

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

llepraentatfYQ

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mllea1e Allowed

Modesto
No. 675....Ben A. Simpson. Senior Warden .·-·--·-·- 8.76
Willow Glen --·--·--· No. 676....George P. Phillips, Master.......---···--· - 4.12
Liberal Arts ---·--· No. 677....Richard Webster, Master .............................. 51.10
Elmer H. Mills, Senior Warden
Willis M. Bonney, Junior Warden
Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master............ 51.10
Delbert D. Colley, Past Master
Frank H. Reinsch, Past Master
Altadena ..
No. 678_Fran ds J. Willcox, Master.·- ·--······-··· ··· 52.20
Gus L. Phillips, Senior Warden
lDes N. Herndon, Junior Warden
Verner A. Jacobson, Past Master
Canby Cross ____..._No. 679-.Dean G. Callas, Master--- ··---····-··----····· 50.06
Douglas L. Thomas, Senior Warden
DeRoy R. Simpson, Junior Warden
Carmel
No.680....Charles N. Pearson, Senior Warden............ 11.16
Gordon C. Browne, Past Master
Charles A. Watson. Past Master
James R. Zuck, Past Master
Dos Palos
__No. 681....George E. Ross, Master....--···--···-- ----·-· 23.14
James R. Pierce, Senior Warden
Roy J. Howard, Junior Warden
Glenn C. Holmes. Past Master...................... 25.50
S. D. Glassey, Past Master
Barstow _ _ _ _ _No. 682....Keith A. Vose, Senior Warden.. --·-·-··-···- 45.22
Redwod Empire _ _ _No. 683....Not represented
Trona _ _
No. 684....George H. Hess, Master-· --···-··--- --···- 47.48
Willis E. Ray, Senior W!lfden
Lynn A. Blackman, Past Master and
Inspector........................................................ 47.48
Hardin I. Lineback, Past Master
Charles E. Ousley, Past Master
San Marino
No. 685....William H. Gardner, Master...---·-··-· -·- 52.20
Ralph L. Gorman, Senior Warden
William B. McKesson, Past Master
Wm. J. Williams, Past Master...................... 52.20
George R. Friederich, Past Master ·
Albany
___No. 686....Robert R. Pruden, Master
Harold W. Swanson, Senior Warden
C. K. Lockwood, Junior Warden
Ambrose R. Graham, Past Master
Vllta _ _ _ _ _ _ No. 687....John W. Lees, Jr., Senior Warden.....-........ 58.36
Andrew H. Chung. Junior Warden
Oildale
No. 688._Hen ry G. Dobie, Maste r--·-·-- ··- 36.70
Harley T. Pinzon, Senior Warden
Robert B. Briles, Junior Warden
Fred C. Epperson, Paat Master
Pohona _
No. 689-Char les F. Hill, Senior Warden .------- 28.70
Frederick E. Quist, Past Master
San Carlos _ _ _ _ _No. 690_Jack W. Webster, Master
~.Ross Baylis, Senior Warden
Forrest R. Hassell, Junior Warden
Earl R. Crawford, Past Master
Ferd Prince, Past Master
Walter C. Simon, Past Master

399

Name of Lodp
No. al Locl1c
RepracntatfYQ
Mlltata Allowed
Indian Wells Valley........No. 691....Norrla C. Viles, Muter__,,..............-.... 45.88
R. G. Hough, Senior Warden
R. H. Dudley, Put Master
Travelers
No. 692....Donald E. Dawley, Master.
7.64
James E. Oliphant. Senior Warden
Palm Springs ..
No. 69L.Willi am P. Aikin. Senior Warden_ _....-.... 59.84
Frederick A. Morrison, Past Master
San Antool.o _ _ _ _No. 69L.Kenn eth M. Harris, Senior Warden........._ 51.10
Clarke E. Hess. Junior Warden
Robert Collier, Past Master
Meudell _ _ _ _No. 695....MacDowell Gardner, Master ...................._ 36.70
Frank C. King, Junior Warden
Crossroads ____ _No, 696_Fran k H. Stewart. Senior Warden ._.__ 60.84
Edwin J. Bower, Junior Warden
·
F. S. Firkins, Past Master
St Elmo ·-····-····- ··--No. 697....Robert H. Burrows, Master
V. R. Keays, Past Master
William D. Stephens.....-No. 698.. _Vierlinq Kersey, Master ---....................... _
51.10
James B. Finney, Senior Warden
Richard R. Kennedy, Junior Warden
Wybren Hiemstra. Past Master
Arthur M. Loomis, Past Master
John X. Turk, Past Master
Bixby Knolls
No. 699_Rerb ert E. Bromley, Master....- - - 51.10
James M. Rucker, Senior Warden
Perry H. Barrett, Past Master
Ponderosa
700....Donald J. Dick, Maste r--···-- -··- 2752
Arthur H. Shipley, Senior Warden
Santa Ynez Valley......-.No. 701....L. W. Burcharcli, Master- ----·-·-- ···- 44.22
•
W. N. Downs, Senior Warden
E. A. Buell, Junior Warden
Rosemead
No. 702....Bertrand A. Williamson, Senior Warden.... 51.10
Harry D. Leonard, Past Master
Westchester
No. 703....J. Fred Davidson, Master ·-···---· ···-- 51.10
Thomas Dekker, Senior Warden
Walter Anderson. Junior Warden
Donald 0. Bridgewater, Past Master
L. Melvin Hall, Past Master
James L. Miles, Past Master
Orinda
No. 704... .Rlchard E. Ploegel, Master.......................... .. 1.30
Vernon Patterson, Senior Warden. .............. .
1.50
Wilbur B. Crosby, Past Master................... . 1.30
Andrew Catherall, Past Master
M. Blaine De Leshe, Past Master
El Cerrito --··--- No. 705....Carl J. Crawford, Master
Ralph P. Partridge, Junior Warden
Robert H. Ballance, Past Master
Gene C. Otwell, Past Master
John L. Wixon. Past Master
Hunters Point NavaL_..No. 706....Loren S. Culbertson. Master
Lake Tahoe -·-·--···- ··No. 707...Levl B. Reaves. Muter_______ ___ _
30.30
James G. Bell, Senior Warden
Loudon F. Hillhouse, Past Maner
Seafaring
No. 708....Ray Nielsen, Senior Warden.......... __ ....... 53.50
Oscar E. White, Jr., Junior Warden

--·---.No.

400
Name of Lodp

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodse

Name of Lod&e

~preaentatl-

Loremo _______ No. 709...Llnford W. Hunter, Master
Crist H. Burkhalder, Senior Warden
Lawrence C. Bourland, Sr., Junior Warden
William F. Dewey, Past Master
Anacapa ________No. 710....fai:.,ules ~~~j~:~~arden. ................. 45.44

1;..

Rim of the World............No. 711....Howard E. Grider, Master·-·····-················ 57.12
Vernon Burkett, Senior Warden
Dale J. Smith, Junior Warden
Thomas E. Schrey, Past Master
3.74
b~~°ha1:n~-w~···
Los Altos --·-···--··-···No. 712-Jf!;
Herbert S. Bailg, Past Master
Eustace C. H. Carson, Past Master
Castro Valley ·- - -·- ··No. 713....Charles W. Oiristensen, Master
Carroll W. Ferguson, Senior Warden
Carl F. Lavo, Past Master and Inspector
0. McDonald, Master
.Salvador
...
714
···-····-·-·-····.No.
Blue Lakes
Robt. J. McGahey, Junior Warden
Magnolia Park -·········-No. 715....Harold A. Morrison, Senior Warden............ 51.10
Sidney Costello, Junior Warden
Belmont Shore -·-·-··--·No. 716....Tames D. Herdman, Muter_...,.........·--···· 51.10
Harvey W. Trueman, Senior Warden
Francis H. Gentry, Past Master
Wayfarer ----·- ····--No. 717....Harry C.. McNamara, Muter.·-················· 52.38
San Lorenzo Valley........No. 718....Robert H. Ludlow, Master ............................ 7.50
Ernest L. Smith, Senior Warden
Jack H. Diggins, Junior Warden
Estero - ------··-·...No. 719....Charles E. Peter, Master·-··-··--·······- ········ 31.58
Mineral King ..................No. 720....Merlin D. Winter, Representative................ 31.22
Home - -·--··---No. 721....William H. Eyler, Master--··-··········-··- · 51.10
4.82
George E. Tutt.................. No. 722....Thomas E. Daugherty, Master..................._
Henry P. Sermuks, Senior Warden
Harold C. Loder, Junior Warden
Acalanes ---···-·---No. 723....J. Harold McCrum, Master·-······-··············· 1.50
Bayard H. Burnett, Senior Warden
Donald H. Fibush, Junior Warden
San Ramon Valley...........•No. 724_.Maurice J. Juul, Master--··--··-······-- ········ 2.00
David H. Humphrey, Senior Warden
Saint John's -········--No. 725_Merton H Binker, Master............................ 1.70
John Kiriluk, Senior Warden
'
E. C. Nevins, Past Master
Martin H. Quinn, Past Master
56.74
Yucaipa ---·······-···---·No; 726....ti~. t!fr~:~. ~=:·w;.d;;;···-··-·········
William L. Greenwood, Junior Warden
Wm. H McGaughy, Past Master
Verdugo Hills ..................No. 727....Phillip B. Stone, Master.................................. 51.10
Ariel C. Harris, Senior Warden
51.10
Lakewood ···-·-·--·····No. 728....Floyd 0. Mason, Master--··----··Fred B. Gra)'. Senior Warden
Kenneth L. Hemphill, Past Master
E. Blum, Master·--·-···········- ··· 51.10
icbard
Centennial ········-·-----UO-R
ICeimeth A. Williams, Senior Warden
James R. Rollins, Junior Warden
Two Rivers ---·----UO-Cla ude B. Riles, Senior Warden.-·-- ·-- 51.10

;f_

..-············

No. of Lodge

Repreeentatlvea

401
Mileap Allo....d

OD-Robert A. Baumhecltel, Master---·······-- 7.64
Omrlea V. Shaffer, Senior Warden
James A. Nash, Junior Warden
Cyrus W. Manuel, Past Master
San Juan - ··-·---U.D-..No rman L. Langness, Master...·-·-··········- 7.64
·
Gerald W. Davis, Senior Warden
Fred J. Boltres, Junior Wardm
Golden Empire ··--------UD---Kenn eth Chas, Master···--·--··-·-····· ···-·· 7.64
Albert A. Anderson. Senior Warden
Frank J. Wiseman, Junior Warden
7.64
UD.....E. Emmett Ramey, Master-·-···-·-···-- ·Kit Carson-- ··
Lyle F. Barber, Past Master
Oasis of Mara.......·-···----UD-Jobn C. Pritz, Master-------···-··-··· ·······-· 62.08
Ben H. Bailey, Senior Warden
Lemon Grove -··---.UD-Will iam E. Rife, Muter·---·---- - 61.H
Thomas Parsons, Senior Warden
John B. Dail, Junior Warden
Hillsborough ····- ······------UD--Milfo rd B. Armstrong, Senior Warden
George H. Christensen, Junior Warden
Arvin -------UD--H arold R. DeTuncq, Master- -- - ·- ··-- - 38.20
Durward 8. Hope, Senior Warden
Thomas D. Downs, Junior Warden
La Canada ---··---UD~h W. Collins, Ma.ster.·-·-··-····- ·······--· 51.10
LeOnard E. Tingey, Senior Warden
W. Henry Rose, Junior Warden
Opportunity --------UD•....Horace Grant, Master----·-··· -··- 51.10
Moses Nixon, Senior Warden
LeRoy Rondot, Junior Warden
Tyre - -·--··-···-·-···UD.....Robert R. Vaughn, Master--···-··-·-·····-- - 51.10
Morningside Park - -....UD•......Albert E. Linde, Muter--····- -·----·-···· 51.10
Emmett A. Rathbun, Senior Warden
J. Ritch, Senior Warden..·-·-·······----- 51.10
_Jerry
•..
····--'·······-·-···U.D
Oakwood
TOTAL.·-··--········-$29,056.78
Polaris

~

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

0

With Membership, Charter Dates, Fees, Dues, Degrees conferred, Per Capita Payments, Contributions.
Column titled "G. L. Per Capita" includes $2.40 for Grand Lodge plus 50c for Masonic Homes, and Degree Fees.
Column titled "Members Contributions" includes Homes Contribution of $25.00, G. W. Memorial Contribution of $1.00 and California
Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
Statistics apply to the year ending July 31, A. L. 5954.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges (page 439).
Lod9e

No.

Members

1
2
3
5
5 Tuolumne --·····-··- 8
6 Corinthian --······-··- 9
1 San Jose ----········..··- 10
8 Yount -···-··-················ 12
9 Nevada ---·-·······.......... 13
10 Temple ··--·-·-·..··--- 14
11 Eureka ··-··--·-·..·····- 16
12 La Parfaite Union .......... 17
13 Mountain Shade ··-·····- 18
H San Joaquin .................... 19
15 Washington .................... 20
16 Hawaiian ----···-·-··-··· 21
17 Occidental ·--··················· 22
18 Madison ----·-···-····..·· 23
19 Mariposa ··---·-···-······..- 24
20 Georgetown -···············- 25
21 El Dorado ........................ 26
22 Trinity ---····-····-..--..··•• 27
23 Golden Gate -····-·-····-- 30
24 Gold Hill ·--·-··-········- 32
25 Ophir ........................_.... 33
26 San Diego -·--··············· 35
27 Howard ......---····-·---·· 37

543
169
805
234
246
450
541
565
172
231
344
126
51
826
859
461
708
327
200
61
266
137
662
117
80
1049

28 Santa Cruz -···············- 38
29 Sacramento -···--··-·- 40
30 Martinez ···-·····---···-- 41
31 Los Angeles ··············- 42
32 Hiram .............................. 43
33 Mount Moriah ................ 44
34 Crescent ···--······-·······- 45
35 Texas ···-··-·---·..······· 46
36 Forbestown ··-··········-····· 50
37 Illinolstown ····---··-·-··· 51
38 Suisun --··-················· 55
39 Volcano ·····-····-·········· 56
40 Santa Rosa ...................... 57
41 Union ··-····---··--···-·- 58
42 Gravel Range ---········-· 59
43 Plumas - ..···--··-··-·····- 60
44 Live Oak --···--···-···- 61
45 Natoma ............................ 64
46 Amador --···---···-·-···· 65
47 Forest .....·-··-···-··········- 66
48 Morning Star ···-·-····- 68
49 Enterprise ····----·-····· 70
50 Bear Mountain ·-·········· 76
51 Calaveras ··-······-···-······ 78
52 Humboldt ···-··-··--·····- 79
53 Ione ·----····-·--·········· 80
54 Yolo ....---·-··-··-··-····- 81
55 Vesper ----··--···-······· 84
56 Naval ----·-··-·-··- 87
57 Rose's Bar--·-·······--·· 89
58 North Star ·----···-- 91
59 St. Helena--··---··-·- 93
60 Henry Clay -·········-- 95
61 Hornitos ·-·----····-··· 98
62 Y osemlte - - - - · · - - 99
__ 101
63 Cay

537
780
418
804
101
409
201
54
113
85
244
93
648
737
67
200
1014
268
85
26
661
363
78
119
504
90
98
240
1249

1 California --···-··············
2 Western Star ·······-·······
3 Tehama ·--···········..···
4 Benicia _____...___

246

34
66
141

IH
98
492
102

Charter
Issued

De9rH
Fees

Affll.

Fe•

Dues

lnlt.

Paued

Raised

6.L.
Per Capita

Membera
Contrlb.

Endow.
Contrib.

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
185'4

100
50
75
75
75
50
75
165
50
75
50
100
50
80
75
175
100
78
50
50
75
125
100
50
50

20.00
6.00
10.00

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12

8
5
23
5
6
13
18
18
6
17
12
4
2
28
37
8
11
2
6

6
11
25
7
6
18
11
28
4
16
17
6
1
32
43
8
12
4
2

1128.00

6
2
23
1
4
57
7

·-·

2
3
22
2
2
42
5

1563.90
500.70
2409.50
688.90
715.90
1345.40
1595.50
1643.90
490.60
713.10
1020.30
372.70
151.90
2446.80
2606.40
1350.20
2050.50
941.00
587.10
177.90
745.60
404.30
1951.10
342.40
220.70
3128.JO
696.60

287.00
157.00
706.00
148.00
183.00
453.00
644.00
581.00
192.00
564.00
409.00
104.00
61.00
827.00
1187.00
287.00
322.00
95.00
260.00

·-

10
12
27
7
5
21
15
29
5
16
14
6
1
32
44
6
12
7
2
1
1
2
24
3
3
45
6

201.00
61.00
670.00
26.00
131.00
1890.00
243.00

318.50
9150
1333.00
8.50
18.00

1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856

80
75
75
100
75
100
125
50
50
60
75
50
75
75
50
125
75
75
50
50
100
50
50
85
75
50
50
100
75
50
50
50
60
55
50
50

12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12

24
24
20
33

-9

8
21
44

9
27
34
1
6
29
23
3

-··

-··

1580.10
2331.60
1254.90
2401.20
283.30
1213.30
600.10
156.70
328.00
247.50
720.30
288.90
1944.70
2166.90
178.90
593.10
2992.60
842.20
242.90
75.40
2008.30
1075.80
230.20
354.10
1537.10
268.00
296.20
705.00
3549.90
96.70
176.00
414.20
245.90
291.30
1444.30
296.10

383.60
1298.00
907.37
1875.00
8.00
261.00
9250
34.00

-14

25
34
22
46
1
12
8
1
4
1
10
8
32
27
1
5
23
22
3

764.00
768.00
644.00
1214.00

7
1
2

26
29
21
37
1
10
8
1
3

80

50

..... -2.00

-------

5.00
6.00

---·-2.00

....... --15.00

------

--·-

10.00
10.00
25.00

·-----

.......... _
5.00

. -----·

5.00
10.00
1.00
4.00

--1.00
1.00
10.00

---10.00
10.00
10.00
6.00
1.00
5.00

. ----·-

10.00
5.00
10.00

----2.50
25.00
5.00
5.00

------

--· ........
5.00
3.00
10.00

_

--·... _
....
---·

--·10.00
5.00
5.00
1.00

..............
10.00

.............

··-·--

-11

-5
29
20
2

··-

35
20
1
3
29
3
4
3
33

--

36
18
1
3
30
2
4
3
28
1

-4

-5

5
3
24
2

3
4
18
3

.

32
17
2
3
31
2
4
3
35

......
2
5
3
3
19
4

--·--·--·

374.00
259.00
26.00
70.00

1855.00
346.00
186.50
257~00

479.00
254.50
128.40
136.00
150.50
34.00
329.00
1098.80
946.00
365.25
86.00
321.00

96.00

-----··

452.00
226.00
697.00
1360.00

58.50
138.00
65.00
162.50
1445.00

157.00
941.00
664.00
70.00

40150
2110.00
184.50
107.00

1126.00
664.00
60.00
103.00
1002.00
103.00
165.00
121.00
1055.00

1037.50
24.00
68.26
5550
409.50

····---165.00

68.00
64.00
2149.00
20.00
9.00
300.00

166.00
87.00
766.00
61.00

67.74
524.00
69.00

·······-·-

N

~

0

u.»

Loci;•

No.

Members

Charter
luued

l>eQrM
Fe•

Affll.

F-

Dues

50
150
100

5.00
1.00
1.00

75
75

--------

12
12
12
18
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
12
15
18
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
18
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

28

1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863

30

ISM

98 Excelsior -·------166
99 Alameda
167
100 Redwood City
168
101 Mission
169
102 Elk Grove __
.173
103 Drytown
.. 174
104 Antioch --·-·------175
105 Phoenix ----·-·-···-178
106 Mendocino _______ 179

497
183
621
684
138
58

107 Petaluma --·-·-··-···180
108 Russian River ____... 181
109 Arbuckle •
.182
110 Clear Lake ----·····-183
111 Sierra Valley ------184
112 Claiborne
18S
_186
113 Evening Star .
114 Keith _
189'
115 Oakland -------188
116 Northern Light -·-·····~190
117 Marin --·-··----191
118 Santa Barbara ··--·--192
193
119 Ferndale
120 Mountain View _ _ _ 194
121 Buckeye _
195
196
122 San Simeon
123 Wilmington ----198
..._199
124 Hartley .
125 Truckee ·------200
126 Silveyville _ _ _ _ ..201
127 Pentalpha _ _ _..--20'2
128 Conlldence ·--·-··-~-203
21M
129 Salinas---··
130 Olivet _:__. ___.--205
206
131 Stanislaus -······
132 Anaheiin _ _ _ _ _207

354

1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870

64 Oroville - - - - - 1 0 3
65 Lexington
104
66 Arcata - - - - - - - 1 0 6
67 Pajaro •.
110
68 Chico
111
112
69 Summit - ·
70 Eden
·-113
71 Concord
·--117
72 Fidelity ----··-·····-··-·-120
73 Alamo -·····-·-··--·····--·122
74 Sotoyome ···-··--·-·---123
75 Table Mountain _ _ _ 124
76 Lafayette .:.
--126
77 Hermann - - - - - -..127
78 Visalia ---·-·-··-128
79 Nicolaus -····-----129
80 Woodbridge -··-·····-··-·-131
___ J32
81 Sincerity
82 Vacaville ---·-·-··-···1.Jf
83 Valley ----······-···13S
84 Pacilk ----·-·----136
85 Crockett ·--·-····-·····-139
86 Curtis -··--········-······140
87 Grafton ········---··--·-141
88 Franklin ----········143
89 Oriental ----···-··· 144
90 Vltruvius _ _ _ _ _ HS
91 Abell -----·-··-146
92 Eel River _ _ _ _ _ .147
93 Lassen --··········-··---149
94 Molino -----·····--150
95 Woodland ----···-156
96 Keystone
161
97 Harmony
IM

133 Rio Vista --··

.208

343

576
333

421
558
41
455
377

567
437
214
228
221
201
561
103
180
98
224
95
590
574
80
114
140
386

126
311
247
247
165
300

357

688
124
127
87
98
40

68
60
182
937
90
556
351
101
354
139
93

622
235
129
164
526
54
601
128
647
447
163

50
75
75
100
75
75
80
50
100
75
50
50
100
75
50
100
75
50
50
75
100
50
50
50
60
50
50
50
50

75
75
100
100
50
50

75
75
50
80
75
50
50
50
50
50
50
75
50
100
75
50
100
75
50
100
65
90
60
100
75
75
50
75
75
100

10.00
5.00

--·-

10.00
15.00

....... -·5.00
1.00

·---

20.00

------

5.00
5.00
5.00

..............

12.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
1.00

--· --·
-··----··1.00

----·2.50
5.00

20.00
5.00
1.00
50.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

------

• 5.00
1.00
10.00
.............

5.00

--·--

2.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

..............

-·---·

5.00
5.00

--·--·
................
10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00

--····

----·
--·-··

...............
1.00

··---

12
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
15
18
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
15
18
12
12
12

lnlt.

Paued

Raised

10

8
29
13
18

7
19
13

33

29
-··
22
20
19
24
6
8
3

32

12
20
28
1
15
17
23

16
6
9·
9
6
10
1
9
2
10
5
13

9
3

5
4
10
2
9
6
6
2
8

1
23

18
22
17
7
7
6
6
9

.......
9

13

3

14
-··
9

3

3

7
2
12
9
. 2
5
6

8
2
15
9
1
7
8
14
2
11
4
8
2
13

13

2
8
6
7
1
12

-3

-

-5

15
4
31
12
4
4
9

13

13
2

3

3
33

12
4

30

10

3

3
3

8

12

39
3

39
3

33

14

15

5
.......

5

3
15
7
2
8
1
3
6

16
4
21
13

2
8
1
2
6
6
21
2
15
7

----

.......

.........

5
4
5
32
8
9
3
8
3·
26
5
25
15
10

11
4
6
29
7
10
5
7
3
26

9
1
4
4
5

8
4
3
30
8
9
2
8
5
27
3
19
22
10

5
24
2
16
12

5

21
13
8

6. L.
Per Capita

Members
Contrlb.

Endow.
Contrlb.

1019.70
1747.50
995.00
1240.00
1612.50
118.00
1362.10
1136.70
1688.00
1321.40
628.00
676.50
647.30
586.30
1636.70
293.90
537.40
292.20
660.10
284.50
1698.80
1653.90
238.00
347.60
424.00
1136.10
371.40
921.20

118.50
300.00
566.50
828.00
756.50
10.00
337.09
348.50
1251.88
146.71
76.00
149.00
60.50
224.50
1210.75
22.00
137.00
24.00
124.25

725.70
460.30
882.70

287.00
1087.00
409.00
624.00
906.00
35.00
462.00
575.00
724.00
572.00
217.00
295.00
297.00
183.00
364.00
35.00
288.00
52.00
375.00
175.00
410.00
306.00
105.00
166.00
122.00
321.00
61.00
279.00
201.00
226.00
52.00
262.00

78.30
98.00

87.00

26.00

462.00
165.00
957.00
348.00
140.00
122.00
306.00
1273.00
137.00
418.00
157.00

998.50
393.50

732.30

1389.50
536.80
1834.00
1945.10
393.80

178.20
1017.90
2033.70
357.00
1041.60
373.70
256.30
309.20
119.00
203.30
190.00
535.10
2746.40
251.60
1644.10
1018.00
287.10
1041.90
412.20
280.80
1877.40
698.70
352.80
476.90
1539.70
164.70
1798.70
375.50
1929.70
1346.30
497.80

·-----·-

315.00
35.00
122.00
122.00
166.00
495.00
140.00
681.00
487.00

---------

262.00
140.00
87.00
1076.00
244.00
297.00
70.00
304.00
157.00
1157.00
78.00
634.00
712.00
314.00

~

~

62.00
754.75
24.00
88.00
555.00
350.00
61.00
405.00
260.50
530.00
66.00
159.00

1330.10

764.50
133.00
60.00
328.00
1390.44
115.50
59.00
70.50
50.00
3.00
15.00
22.50
25.00
55.00
1033.66
779.81
730.50
28.00
872.00
139.32
1302.00
16.00
258.25
149.39
1293.00
90.00
517.00
65.00
632.00
939.00
179.00

.....
0

VI

No.
Lodo•
134 King David's ---·-209
135 Friendship
210
136 San Benito - - - - 2 1 1
137 South San Franclaco _ ...212
138 San Buenaventura __•...214
139 Oak Grove
215
140 Doric
.-216
141 Monterey - - - -..··-·217
142 Mosaic ----·--·--218
143 Speranza ltaliana -·---.219
144 Downey
.....220
145 Inyo
221
146 Roseville - - ·____222
147 Bakersfield
....224
148 Brooklyn
225
149 San Mateo ---·---226
150 Athens --··-_.228
151 Solano
229
152 North Butte -·--~.230
153 Covelo
.--231
154 onesville ---·-·--232
155 Calistoga ···---·-··-233
156 Hope --··------23'!
157 Surprise Valley - - -...-235
158 Hills Ferry ----····236
159 Guadalupe _____....237
160 Colusa
240
241
161 Santa Ana 162 Magnolia
...242
163 Eucalyptus
243
164 Alcatraz
165 Laurel
ti
166 Pomona
46
47
167 Preano

....

168 AJturm . _.....-·-···-...248
169 Adln
250
170 Landmark _ _ _ _••253
171 Reading
254
172 Welcome --··---255
173 Lodi
256
174 Penrhyn _ _ _ _ _-258
175 Evergreen _______259
176 King Solomon's ···-··-260
177 Tuscan
_.261
178 Lompoc --·-··-···-262
179 Hesperian ---..·--··-·-264
180 Orland ···--·--·--·····265
181 North East ··---·--·-266
182 Galt - - - - - - 2 6 7
183 Durant ·----·-·-268
184 Olive Branch ··-··--·-.269
185 Snow Mountain _ __271
186 Pasadena
_ _..273
187 Anchor
188 Arroyo --·--.214
189 Oakdale
275
m
190 Selma - - - 191 Southern California __ .278
192 Hanford ___
.279
.280
193 Madera ··-·
194 Mount Shasta --···---281
195 Calayoml ..
282
196 South West --··-·-..283
197 San Miguel
285
198 Paso Robles
286
199 Wlnnedumah ···-·-287
200 Maxwell
288
201 Elsinore
289
202 East Gate
290
203 Santa Paula ---·-·291

-·------...2n

M•mben

427
720
160
262
420
620
493
285
· 205
302
668
165
394
831
590
583
176
599
219
64
167
120
126

74
162
171
163

594
433

487
644

248
410
715

200
109
120
225
209
399
158
673
493
92
191
373
157
64
82
522
317

45
565

578
171
195
235
507
228
276
117
68
488
61
261

236
70
152
811
387

Charter
l11ued

1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878

1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888

l>ieQrM

""'
80
75
50
95

75
75

Affll.

F1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

__...

100

1.00
10.00

75
75

····-··
10.00

100
100
50
50
100

--··
-····
5.00

75
100
50

75
75
50

75
50
50
50
50

75
50

75
75
99

75
50

2.50

--·-··
-··---···

---··
10.00

. ······...... ··-

1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

··--·
10.00
1.00

---·
---··
10.00

80

5.00
2.00
3.00

50
50
50
50

1.00
2.00
1.00
5.00

75

-·-····

50

50
50

-·3.00

75
75

····-

50

75
75
50
50
50
80
75
75

75
125
50

75
80

75
50
50
50
50
75
50

75
75

75
75

75
50

---··

. ---···
..............

1.00

2.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

····-··

1.00

-·· --

.............

6.00
1.00
12.00

-----------··
3.00
-----·
5.00
1.00
10.00
3.00

-------

----10.00

----

&.L

o....

lnlt.

Paaed

Raised

Per Capita

12
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
18
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
15
15
12
12
12
12
12

9
16

10
13
3

12
13

1251.90
2112.60
473.10
724.80
1239.60
1814.90
1425.90
853.90
623.80
829.40
2111.80
489.50
1193.90
2488.40
1719.80
1760.90
502.40
1699.30
653.40
187.00
500.30
351.00
373.40
207.00

12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
15

5
9
11
17

7

63

13
12
11
13
13
.......
65

4

4

19
31

19
33
8
39
8
17

7
11
9

. . ..

7
30
8
16
12
3

7
4
5

5

1
2
2

··-

2
1

5

5

10

9

5

7

21
23
26
17

22
22

7
19
27

4
7

27
12
11
22
25

15
14
13
15
16

··-

64
3
22
29
17
36

5
22
8
6
6
2

4
1
6

5
7
22
21
32
17
JI
18
20

4

6

9

4
4

5
5

5
5

14

10

6

4

5

5

H

15

5

4

38
10
1
6
13

29
15
3

16
8
26
14
2
6
15

5

4

8

8

4
13

5

2

9
10

10
10
3
26
31
6
8

2
23
35

4
5
6
15
8
3
7

7

34
1
11

14
14
9
8
3
44
2
8

14

11

2

4
7
1
9
9

2
24
35
7
9
8
10
7
10

11
3
35
1
9
15

-3

--4 -4

11
28

24

12

17
20

474.20
511.20
491.70
1787.60
1304.30
1497.30
1881.70

745.30
1239.30
2136.80

590.30
318.50
359.10
644.80
608.50
1190.50
434.60
2004.10
1416.50
264.10
569.90
1102.40
450.90
197.00
240.00
1509.90
933.80
134.60
1662.20
1759.80
512.90
587.50
696.70
1431.00
658.30
807.90
353.70
196.50
1522.40
178.00
782.00
718.60
200.10
443.10
2273.00
1188.50

M.niben
Collfrlb.

331.00
642.00
19i.10
331.00
358.00
532.00
235.00
356.00
370.00
,. _________
2041.00
140.00
611.00
1007.00
218.00
1078.00
271.00
547.00
409.00
96.00
14.8.00

369.50
381.50
443.00
760.00
671.50
127.00
116.00
219.00
226.50
1382.65
277.00
382.80
1287.50
560.50
1623.50
132.00
334.50
68.50
2.00
148.00

·-·····-··

74.50

70.00
35.00
191.00
350.00
157.00
723.00
824.00
800.00
566.00
227.00
738.00
923.00

~

58.00
200.00
424.80
43.00
1327.00
1359.00
528.00
314.50
91.00
657.00
759.1)()

181.00
140.00
122.00
445.00
156.00
527.00
166.00
1434.00
312.00
35.00
199.00
428.00
200.00
244.00
216.00
304.00
339.00
61.00
799.00
1193.00
131.00
166.00
192.00
496.00
278.00
87.00
200.00
52.00
1116.00
35.00
372.00
454.00

189.50
154.00
26.68
216.50
132.00
21.00
27.50
325.00
1004.00
20.00
382.00
3090.50
58.50
38.00
100.50
333.05
353.00
11.00
1135.00
1210.00
202.08
50.50
493.50
1794.00
461.00
290.50
81.50
25.00
696.00

--·-

22.65
95.00
1348.75
907.00

130.00
358.00
938.00

.

End-.

Cotitrlb.

147.00

533.74
~

.... .

0

Lod99

No.

Members

Charter
Issued

l>eqrM
Fees

Affll.
Fees

75
75

---1.00

80
50
80
50

1.00
5.00

204 Los Gatos ---····-··.292
205 Orange Grove --····-···-293
206 Traver -·--··-······-·294
207 Mt. Jackson --···-295
208 Silver Gate ---··-···-296
209 Dunsmuir
297
210 Liberty
299
300
211 Redlands -·
212 Ontario
·····--.301
213 Santa Lucia ---·-··302
214 Porterville _______.303
215 Reedley _ _ _ _..30f
216 Azusa _
__-305
.306
217 Ashlar
218 Santa Monica
...307
219 Monrovia ·---·--308
220 Delano ··-----..-309
221 Sisson
.---310
222 Los Banos ----··-.312
223 Tehachapi
--313
.314
224 Temescal
225 Norwalk ---·--.315
226 Sanger -·-----·----316
227 Fallbrook ---····--317
228 Emanuel ---------...318
229 Hollenbeck
--319
20
230 South Gate
231 Alisal - - - - - - 3 2 1
232 Alhambra
--...322
233 Whittier ---·---.....323
234 Corona -----....324
235 Consuelo
25
236 Needles
• 326
327
237 Long Beach

329
281
163
130
1311
300
321
443
422
171
484
166
285
295
400
295
237
108
161
208
249
286
330
157
86
1011
615
153
651
755
470
284
348
611

1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896

----·-···-------··.!'18

580
128
228
276
517
98
363
1092
861
207
105
386
401
592
539
141
754
502
766
1069
606
377
174
508
1243
441
257
812
100
307
142
156
664
164
1059
616

1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905

238 Redondo

239 Vallee de France --··---..329
240 Kilauea -----··-·...330
241 Pacific Grove ·-··--..331
242 San Pedro ----····-·-·-··..332
243 Alta --·-··-··--·..333
244 Covina ···---·····-····---334
245 West Gate -·-··-·-------.335
246 Fruitvale ···-······-··----336
247 Carquine~ ----·-···337
248 San Jacinto ·----..338
249 Fullerton ··-·-·-·-···.339
250 Oxftard ····--··----··JU
· 251 San Fernando -·-··-'····-343
252 Starr King ·-····--······-·..Joff
253 Brentwood ···-·-··-·_345
254 Palo Alto -·------346
255 McKinley _____---3f7
256 San Bernardino ·--···..348
257 Sequoia ·-·---·-··--·.349
258 Palestine -----·--···--..351
259 Sunset -"
...-352
260 Pinole ----·-·····..353
261 Presidio ____ __,_354
262 Hollywood ----··--355
263 Mill Valley ·---·--....356
264 Buena Park ___ __357
265 Golden State ··-··-······-..358
266 Loyalton ···--··-....3S9
267 San Francisco .:---·-··--..360
268 Fort Bragg --·---361
269 Charity --·····---362
270 Berkeley ---·-··-..363
271 Willits ------··---•.365
272 Las Palmas ·----····366
273 South Pasadena ··-·-·-···.YJ7

75
75
50

75
50

75
75
55
80

75
100
50

75
75
50

75
75
55
50

75
100
50
100
75.

------

..............
--------

10.00

----····

..............
---·····
...... --·

------

---------------------

............
2.00
..............
1.00
2.00
................

................
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00

-----------...............

75

...............

50

75

---·-1.00

100

25.00

100
100
125

-------·

75

---25.00

80
53
50
125
100

75
50

75
75
100
100
50
100

75
75
100
100
100

75
100
125
100

75
75
50
100

75
75
75
50
80

75

12.00

--5.00

----·-

........ --25.00
................

. ...............
-------

1.00

............
10.00

-··-·--

5.00
............
10.00
1.00
10.00

..............
25.00
20.00
15.00

------.............
10.00

..............

------5.00
__ ,. ___

5.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

Dun

IDlt.

P•ued

Raised

18
18
15
18
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
12

18

11
13
4
1
35

11
14
5
2
37
6
12
12
19
14
13
2
12
10
17
8
12
2

12
15
12
15
15
12
12
15
16
12
12
12
15
12
15'
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
18
12
12

7
3
2
22
4
10

7
23
6
15
3
12
14
15
13
11

----

8
6
19
19
8
5
4
17
9
6
24
41
14
9
5

7
12
13
21
10
11
2
12
15
17
9
11
2
10
4
17
16
4
6
2
15
10
6
21
48
18
8

s

7
5
17
14
4
5
3
19
12
8
23
30
13
5
6

27

16

19

26

28
4
4
11
16

41
4
6
15
16

5
3
11
13
4
27
55
20
8
3
8
22
56
20
5
13
16
49
15
17
9

7

7

13
26
16
14
19
5
1

24
40
18
8
4
8
19
53 .
17
5
18
18
36
15
14
5
8
16
25
12
18
20
3
1

21
34
18
5
4
5
17
46
13
2
19.
16
39
21
17.
8
5
12
28
12
25
16
3

7

7

6
13
2
22
21

4
12
4
34
19

8
5
14
5
53
19

7

··-

6. L.
Per C.plt•

Memben
Contrlb.

979.60
834.40
476.00
382.00
3872.70
866.70
953.30
1281.90
1278.10
523.00
1442.60
482.60
850.90
880.00
1188.70
865.20
686.50
311.40
489.00
612.40
763.50
869.70
970.10
468.40
255.50
2907.50
1753.60
457.90
1955.90
2250.50
1373.20
842.70
1010.70
1810.70

603.00
252.00
87.00
70.00
838.00
131.00
357.00
262.00
794.00
208.00
471.00
87.00
470.00
463.00
548.00
419.00
383.00
25.00
244.00
183.00
729.00
636.00
262.00
148.00
131.00
532.00
329.00
192.00
791.00
1466.00
538.00
411.00
166.00
907.00

1762.50
372.60
674.20
822.90
1509.50
299.30
1089.90
3217.50
2509.40
603.90
315.50
1125.90
1200.60
1863.10
1569.60
409.30
2213.40
1482.60
2232.30
3104.70
1788.00
1089.20
486.90
1502.60
3599.60
1289.90
793.60
2363.40
292.30
872.00
433.80
467.40
1906.60
469.20
3162.70
1819.30

993.00

311.00

157.00
105.00
383.00
408.00
113.00
1043.00
1856.00
673.00
244.00
105.00
278.00
705.00
1843.00
680.00
200.00
392.00
488.00
1626.00
487.00
539.00
313.00
218.00
452.00
996.00
497.00
502.00
629.00
157.00
35.00
243.00
217.00
410.00
96.00
696.00
797.00

287.75
28650
162.25
1050.00
196.00
554.40
2521.55
550.00
205.41
25.00
586.00
479.50
1439.93
138.08
5550
1520.50
466.00
770.50
2175.00
1218.00
953.50
119.00
536.00
1153.00
75.50
541.00
683.50
10.00
427.00
50.00
58.00
208.00
28.00
1311.60
1594.50

Endow.

Contrlb.

~

0

00

219.00
278.00
63.25
40.00
1368.59
197.00
673.00
48150
341.50
259.00
798.50
147.50
458.00
232.50
661.08
713.61
485.25
117.00
129.00
120.00
593.00
155.50

311.00
1506.75
300.00
1325.00
799.50
953.75
62.00
790.00
675.98

..
~

Lodge

No.

Memblll'I

Chart.,
Issued

DegrM
Fties

Affll.

F........ __

274 Unity -·------···368
275 Ocean Park ·--··--·-······.369
276 Amity --·-···---...370
277 Le ProgresdeL'Oceanle 371
278 Gardena ..-·----·-···-···372
279 West Los Angeles ...•.._.373
280 Jewel --·-·--·-·······374
281 Richmond -·-····-··-····-···375
282 Francis Drake ............._376
283 Artesia -·······-···-·--.377
284 Mizpah ·-··-·····-··-···-···378
285 Fillmore --·---·-····379
286 Huntington Beach ..........380
287 Oceanside ··----······-···381
288 · Highland Park ········-·-···382
289 Orosi ·---··---··---···383
290 El Centro ··-····---·-··..384
291 Dinuba ···---················385
292 Coalinga --··--··········387
293 Parnassus -·-··-········--388
294 Palos Verdes --···········389
295 Imperial ····--·-·····-······-390
296 East Belt ---····-···-··-···391
297 West Lake ·----·········392
298 Balder -······-··-···-·····-393
299 University ·-··-··-·········-394
300 Turlock --···--·-·-··-·395
301 Apollo -···-···-·····-········396
302 Rising Light -----··-·······397
303 Fraternity ·---··-··-·-399
304 Burlingame --·············400
305 Bay View --····----401
306 Brawley -·--·-·····-···--t02
'3(J7 Yerba Buena _______403

634
521
445
719
387
436
196
521
378
200
425
245
333
422
652
152
455
307
413
784
698
119
90
903
498
621
396
459
1019
445
711
643
235
914

1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909

125
115
100
175
105
75
100
100
100
50
100
50
75
75
100
65
75
75
100
100
125
75
50
100
100
125
80
75
100
100
100
75
75
100

308 Glendora ..........................40f

162

1909

so

.,

309 Moneta ···-······-'·····-·····-405
310 Burbank ·-·---~---406
311 La Mesa ---·--··--·407
312 Sierra Madre ·-··----··408
313 Honolulu --··-·-···-···-409
314 Charter Rock -····----410
315 Perris .......- - - - - 4 1 1
316 Calexico -··----·····-·--·H2
317 Arlington -·-----414
318 Silver Trowel --·-···415
319 Lindsay -··---·--·····H6
320 Oovls -····-··-·-·---·H7
321 Elysian -------418
322 Upland ·--M·--··-:H9
323 Kerman ·--·--·-----420
324 Inglewood - · - - - 4 2 1
325 Eagle Rock ·--·--·--··-422
326 York ....--···----ill
327 Exeter - - - - - - -••424
328 Holtville ·---·---425
329 Midway ·-·····-----+26
330 Chino Valley ···------+27
331 San Dimas ··------+28
332 Pittsburg ----·-·--429
333 McOoud ··--··---430
334 Alpha · - · - - - 4 3 1
335 Hammonton
4-33
336 Maricopa _ _ _ _ _Uf
337 Fairmount ________435

679
752
578
169
412
338
148
158
340
393
216
488
451
228
124
745
523
363
230
148
502
144
169
319
102
524
65
182
478
117
354
54
199
350
418

1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1914

105
100
125
75
175
75
50
50
75
125
50
80
75
50
75
125
100
100
50
75
50
50
55
75
50
75
50
50
100
50
75
75
50
75
75

---·

338 Claremont -·-·---·---436
339 Lancaster ______437

··--···-------·438

340 Acacia
341 Tyrlan -···--·------43!1
342 Standard --------140
243 Coronado ··-··----441

1909

,.

____

25.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
................
25.00
1.00

-------

5.00

--- ·-........ --·
...........

--··---

.........

10.00

···----

10.00
5.00
50.00
20.00
20.00
............
1.00
................
5.00

·-----5.00
25.00
25.00

_____

5.00
3.00
................
10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00
........ ---

10.00

.. -- . -----25.00
__3.00
___
,.

25.00

__ ........

··--

----

...............
........

__

·-··---

----1.00
-·----------------6.00
-··---···-·
·--

Duet

lnlt.

Pa•ed

Ralled

15
15
18
15
12
15
12
12
18
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
18
12
15
15

22
17
5
22
29
25
2
6
19
9
14
8
11
30
6
22
8
16
30
15
9
1
5
19
13
9
15
32
12
43
20
4
24

20
16
6
19
28
23
2
5
21
13
7
7
9
27
17
6
26
9
19
35
11 .
8
1
5
17
9
12
11
38
8
39
24
7
23

23
15
6
26
25
16
5
6
21
15
5
7
14
24
16
7
24
9
19
35
16
4

12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
15
15
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
18
12
15
12

11

8

9

8
35
30
8
12
7
5
4
6
14
12
24
10
8
2
33
16
14
9
3
14
8

9
33
30
9
11
8
4
2
6
11
7
28
9
7
1
26
14
12
11
4
19
7

·-·

-··

9
39
41
10
11
6
3
3
6
10
7
26
11
8
1
24
17
14
12
7
21
6
3
12
9

25

13
5
22
2
5
13
3
38
1
H
7
19

9
7
22
2
6
16
2
35
1
17
5
23

-··

6
16
13
12
11
35
7
39
21
8
24

25
2
1
18
2
34
1
17
8
23

&.L.
Per Capita

Members
Contrlb,

ERd-.
Contrlb.

1900.70
1532.80
1287.20
2137.60
1192.70
1313.90
571.60
1507.60
1119.50
570.60
1244.00
726.70
985.20
1296.10
1931.40
442.40
1382.80
881.50
1240.10
2330.10
2005.30
357.40
257.20
2614.40
1493.30
1809.80
1164.00
' 1342.00
3007.90
1311.70
2153.90
1918.10
694.70
2712.90

748.00
548.00
174.00
686.00
1009.00
1064.00
70.00
226.00
584.00
288.00
463.00
235.00
400.00
1099.00
821.00
210.00
756.00
244.00
522.00
969.00
512.00
315.00
35.00
182.00
618.00
486.00
356.00
505.00
1010.00
434.00
1395.00
655.00

1381.75
626.55
752.00
1440.00
549.00
771.00
134.00
248.00
301.90
428.50
1451.50
516.00
33.00
455.00
439.25
348.00
925.00
179.00
1100.00
701.50
196.50
146.00
80.00
1832.00
376.50
1306.13
796.65
415.00
468.00
719.50
1643.50
415.78

207.00
771.00

503.50
1228.00

497.80
1940.00
2270.40
1765.60
511.30
1220.10
980.90
423.80
458.50
977.90
1139.90
643.70
1467.10
1314.70
672.60
363.60
2223.20
1555.00 .
1057.90
693.20
434.50
1472.10
438.60
484.40
950.00
316.80
1577.00
185.80
534.20
1407.10
340.50
1127.80
153.80
625.10
. 1020.50
1277.20

401.00
269.00
1251.00
861.00
353.00
391.00
227.00
139.00
165.00
201.00
504.00
384.00
802.00
323.00
260.00
86.00
1115.00
549.00
452.00
288.00
105.00
418.00
287.00
......................
383.00
166.00
770.00
52.00
200.00
426.00
121.00
1266.00
26.00
454.00
218.00
618.00

60.00
1402.00
1534.80
323.91

.....
0

898.00
280.75
2@.00
196.00
711.50
850.00
173.00
416.50
1012.48
256.50
254.50
684.00
734.27
177.00
460.00
273.00
506.00
135.50
180.00
219.91
54.00
46.00
308.50
274.00
120.00
720.00
113.00

140.00
538.00

-...

Lodc;ie

Ne.

344 Blackmer -------+t2

345 Schofield ···---····-·+t3
346 Carpinteria ·-··-···---···+ff
347 Wilshire -····---···-'MS
348 La Puente
+f6
349 Torrance -·-····--·+t7
350 Mount Diablo ··--·---+t8
351 Park -···-····--------419
352 Van Nuys ·········-···-···-···450
353 Montebello ·--·-·--···451
354 San Pasqual _______452
355 Bethlehem --··---·····-453
356 Crocker ......
.454
357 Golden West -·-······455
358 Ramona ---·········-···457
359 Henry S. Orme ............. AS8
360 Riverbank ---·····-····-·····459
361 Mount Oso ····--···--·460
362 Argonaut ··------461
363 Paul Revere ---···········462
364 Morgan Hill ·--······-···463
365 Alta Vista ----·-··-··--464
366 Center ·····-·---·······-465
367 Libertas --···-······-····--466
368 Culver City ·--··-··-··467
369 Rockridge -·--··-·--···468
370 Yorba Linda -·--··-469
371 Lincoln ·--···--··-·-470
372 Delta -·--···------·-···471
373 Maui ---·---···472
374 Blythe ----·----ID
375 Victory
414
gs
376 America
377 Coachella
-176

Members

1295
279
127
553
185
454
375
483
948
634
542
279
422
576
516
668
150
321
424
622
167
267
556
651
376
492
165
353
496
226
143
291
478
205

Charter
Issued

1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1919
1920
1920

Dec;iree
Fees

80
125
50
125
50
110

75
75
125
100
75
100
75

75
75
125
75
80
80
100
75
75
80
100
100
115
50
100
80
85

Affll.

Fees

-----5.00
--------

25.00
1.00

-----··- ·-r

10.00
................
10.00

--------

------10.00
10.00

----------------------

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

-------

.............
................
10.00
........
10.00

---

-----··

100

................
5.00
25.00

75
75

-·----

75

Duel

12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
12
18
12
12
15
12
15
15
15
12
15
15
12
12
18
12
12

lnlt.

33
14
3
11
12
37
35
14
65
43
39

5
19
15
23
19
2

5
9
20
2
9
13
26
19
9
13
8
20

Palled

47
23
8
9
12
35
36
15
78
42
38
3
11
15
26
15

5
10
11
16
4

5

5
15

13
29
21
10
8
8
17
........
10
6
11

7

6

-··
6

Raised

63
23

5
9
15

34
38
10

75
38
34
4
14
13
26
20
4
11
9
20
4
3
22
28
23
10

7
6
17
. ......

7
8
6

6

&.L.

Per Capita

3860.80
863.30
381.40
1586.30
572.60
1411.00
1179.10
1402.00
2912.10
1938.40
1671.20
812.40
1230.10
1701.80
1554.00
1959.30
440.20
956.90
1244.10
1839.50
494.30
771.00
1648.80
1950.60
1147.60
1412.30
500.70
1028.30
1492.40
652.50
434.80
857.10

1392.10
610.60

379 Thousand Oaks ____..478
380 Golden Rule _______479
381 Fellowship ·····----480
382 Mt. Davidson -·--···481
383 Clarence F. Smith -·-·····482
384 Bell -·····--······-··-····---483
385 Albert Pike ··-··----··-484
386 Chowchilla -·--···-485
387 Caledonia _______.486
388 Vallejo
481
389 Patterson ______488
390 East Bay ·-------489
391 Corcoran ··--··--··-········490
392 Woodstock ···-··-·-·491
393 Garvanza ··---·---492
394 Atascadero ________493
395 Acorn -·----·-···49f
396 Lebanon ·--··-~--·-t9S
397 Fremont ··-···-···-·-···491
398 Stockton --·------..A98
399 Capital City ··-----·-·-499
400 Roosevelt --~----500
501
401 Westwood - · ·
402 Harbor ·--------502
403 Point .•
-..503
4Q4 Seaside ···-···-----..sot
405 Silver Cord
sos
406 Mount Olive -·-·--.506
-5(1/
407 El Segundo
408 Joppa
sos
409 Benjamin Franklin ______509
410 Cupertino •
510
411 Sunnyvale ,
...Sll
412 Pal~s ~·-------512
413 Cahuenga -·-------513

154
515
647
330
403
367
693
264
174
537
401
135
394
127
429
322
130
625
409
535
196
546
220
281
600
303
512
486
994
382
88
369
179
339
471
562

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921

50
75

---5.00
---

75
75

................
1.00
10.00
...............

100

75
100
100
100
100

75
75
75
75
75
75
75
80
100
100
80

75
100
50

75
75
100

75
125
85
50
100

75
75
125
100

...............

------·

5.00

................
10.00
• 5.00
10.00
................
1.00

------

...............
10.00

-------

10.00

----·--

10.00
15.00
10.00

--·----·

. ----...............
1.00
25.00

---5.00

--------·-

5.00

................
5.00

Contrib.

1068.00
445.00
112.00
424.00
443.00
1212.00
1096.00
454.00
2460.00
1436.00
1384.00
173.00
670.00
498.00
713.00
643.00
70.00
223.00
323.00
705.00
61.00
306.00
410.00
829.00
693.00
313.00
437.00
285.00
723.00

1155.00
578.38
325.10
466.50

217.00
157.00
557.00

5

5

13
24
10

14
16
11
11
6
38
11
3
23
11
12
8
6
24
18
2
14
16
24
12
24
11
4
25
23
25
15
28
25
3
10
12
22
20
20

7
9
44
8
4
20
10
9
8
8
27
16
1
17
15
20
14
25
10
3
33
23
20
16
21
32
3
9
12
14
22
12

4
13
27
11
11
9
36
9
3
26
12
13
12
6
24
11
3
17
15
21
9
22
8

5
29
17
24
14
24
29
3
8
6
20
19
16

460.60
1501.60
1940.40
980.30
1189.00
1073.80
2104.50
790.70
514.60
1608.90
1184.30
416.80
1159.00
388.30
1307.50
978.80
371.40
1848.90
1229.20
1613.60
597.60
1645.70
667.00
826.90
1815.40
930.10
1545.10
1439.90
2923.70
1185.10
264.20
1085.50
546.20
1030.40
1418.20
1648.80

261.00

157.00
426.00
879.00
339.00
235.00
288.00
1523.00
303.00
181.00
671.00
296.00
295.00
253.00
253.00
819.00
531.00
94.00
568.00
503.00
654.00
471.00
810.00
296.00
96.00
1060.00
749.00
669.00
615.00
654.00
1064.00
87.00
356.00
393.00
445.00
825.00
418.00

~

N

251.52
160.50
415.00
-

15
15
12
12
18
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
18
16
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12

-

528.13
537.35
199.75
1903.89
987.40
1099.50
372.00
499.00
416.00
1050.00
1527.34
41.50
181.50
754.50
1305.76
106.00
536.00
302.50
369.00
751.00
358.00
370.36
1014.00
537.50
398.50
60.00

-----------

---

378 Temblor ..........:..___....477

End-·

Memben
Contrlb.

-

172.25
327.00
986.50
163.00
1183.00
751.00
851.70
323.50
291.00
938.90
247.55
38.00
167.50
33.50
129.00
270.50
294.21
357.00
325.25
774.35
109.00
428.00
181.00
590.50
279.84
385.05
529.50
990.25
2210.00
403.50
54.00
296.60
176.35
940.00
240.00

~

~

Lod9•

No.

414 Argonne
5H
415 Vermont Square ---515
416 Taft
16
417 Mount Vernon
517
•t18 LaJolla
18
419 Euclid
19
420 Ionic
520
521
421 Piedmont-···
422 Sunrise ··-·------522
523
423 Bellftower ··--·
424 Catalina Island ____524
425 George Washington __525
426 Bay Oty _
526
427 Covenant
527
428 Beverly Hills
528
429 Loyalty
29
430 Sun Garden
30
431 Alexandria
531
432 Smyrna
32
.-533
433 Azure - - ·
'
534
434 Forest Hill - · ·
435 Alexander Hamilton __535
436 Seal Rock ··-----536
537
437 Utopia ---_-538
438 Ascot --·
439 Belvedere
SJCJ
440 Queen Beach
540
441 Henry Morse Stephens.541
442 North Hollywood --542
443 Signal
543
444 Glendale _ _----S+f
445 Jonathan
545
446 San Gabriel
546
547
447 Arcadia ~

+flS 'TrfangJe

Memlten

387
543
327
225
325
395
962
273
341
473
146
485
395
324
554
522

557
165
150
265
197
297
202
709
354
213
192
349
873
519
786
206
492
475

.. ....

Charter
luuecl

~,

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

100
75
50
80
105
100
175
80
100
125
100
100
100
100
125
125
80

Fen

75
70

75
80
100
100
100
100

75
80

75
125
100
100
100
125
100

.---548

306

1923

75

+f9 Justice ·- ··-----=---- --=-······349
450 Seaport _ _ __ __sso

386
234
270
298
394
103
410
362
375
436
398
774
303
427
887
341
239
485
430
360
351
255
368
80
. 601
176
344
463
538
582
117
418
190
316
276

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924

100
100
100
50
80
55
100
100
80
100
75

451 Lakeshore - - · ---..-551
452 Semper Vlrens
552
453 Educator _ ________sq
454 White Pine _______555
455 Fairfax ··-···---···-··.556
456 Hermosa ··-···--·-----557
457 Point Finnin ··-·-········-558
458 Craftsmen ······---······-559
459 Plymouth - ·-·····-·-·-·--560
460 East San Diego ········----561
461 Pyramid ·······-- ---·562
462 South Park ------ ----563
463 Foothill - - - - -- ····- ..S64
464 West Adams --- ··- - ·····-.565
465 James A. Garfield .........566
466 Searchlight ····-·- -·-- --_567
467 Park Boulevard ··-····-- -568
468 Chateau Thiery ···--··-··569
469 Military Service ·--······570
470 Francis K. Shattuck ____571
471 James Madison --------572
472 Hillcrest - -··- - - ------573
473 S. W . Hackett ·- - -- ..574
474 Fort Crook ··· -- -.•-575
475 El Cajon Valley ···----576
476 Sunnyside ···-···--··---..517
477 Progressive ···-·· - - --578
478 Warren G. Harding ......579
479 Santa Maria _____...580
480 Security - ---·----....s81
48-1 Rialto - ·
82
482 Wasco - - - - - - - 5 8 3
483 Harding ···--·-·-···-.584

75
90
100
80
100
100
110
100
100
100

75

Affll.

5.00

--10.00
--·

-25.00

5.00

--··---··10.00

--

--·10.00

---5.00
---

-·-··
10.00
5.00
10.00

--·-

·-··---

5.00
5.00

--5.00
25.00

--

-----·
10.00
25.00
5.00

..... ......
5.00
2.00

. . . . ......

---- ---

..............
........ ........
5.00
.............
10.00
..............
5.00
..............
30.00
........ ........

···---

10.00
10.00
5.00

75

. . ......_
..... . . . .

75
80

...........

75
75

5.00
. ..........

125

20.00
15.00

75
75
80
100

75

------

. ...........
...............

5.00

80

....... _....

75

5.00

Dun

lnlt.

Palled

Raised

Per Capita

6.L

Memben
Contrlb •

12
12
12
18
12
15
15
15
13
12
15
12
15
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
12
12

4
16
17
6
19
23
34
4

3
18

5
18
9
9
17
20
61
5
15
43
5
15
14

1134.30
1612.20
970.90
668.70
982.80
1191.20
2944.10
791.20
1021.00
1495.90
430.60
1440.90
1179.80
946.30
1653.80
1610.00
1656.70
492.60
471.00
785.60
592.30
878.00
624.90
2083.70
1046.90
643.80
570.80
1019.50
2677.50
1547.70
2363.80
620.50
1487.30
1481.60

148.00
506.00
584.00
192.00
661.00
776.00
1143.00
131.00
209.00
1497.00
131.00
488.00
444.00
437.00
517.00
1509.00
471.00
277.00
477.00
276.00
192.00
208.00
400.00
585.00
244.00
297.00
276.00
225.00
1886.00
707.00
1377.00
288.00
903.00
1244.00

325.00
1077.00
1034.85

7
42
4
16
15
13
14
44
15
6
14
6
6
6
14
18
. 8
9
6

14

7
13
23
68
5
13
45
4
15
14

7

7

18

21
23
18
6
12
6
8
15
15
14
10
11
4

35
20
5
10
8

7

llld•·

eo.trlb.

129.00
1122.75
3JCJ.OO
259.50
330.26
694.00
1927.70
498.50
282.50

35

33

15

29

2S

30

962..SO

S9S.OO

623.50

15
18
18
12
15
12
18
12
12
12
15
12
16
12
12
15
15
16
15
16
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15

14
3

10

11

5
7

6
9
22
14

1142.80
689.70
803.10
928.30
1178.80
308.80
1348.10
1120.10
1104.00
1291.90
1209.60
2323.30
885.00
1261.80
2731.40
1036.90
718.20
1434.20
1278.20
1072.10
1045.40
749.50
1115.20
235.20
1864.20
539.60
1078.80
1363.00
1606.50
1761.20
347.40
1251.40
618.20
953.60
845.10

480.00
78.00
236.00
742.00
393.00
140.00
857.00
793.00
427.00
480.00
566.00
950.00
166.00
338.00
1944.00
590.00
270.00
"530.00
383.00
305.00
314.00
131.00
697.00
87.00
1490.00
402.00
1201.00
304.00
549.00
896.00
235.00
419.00
899.00
391.00
846.00

387.38
318.50
77.50
325.00
235.95
52.00
146.50
136.00
652.00
116.00
200.00
627.80
254.50
909.00
336.17
104.00
727.41
306.00
749.25
259.00
184.00
121.00
599.00
28.60
566.00
270.00
375.00
745.50
1134.00
1178.50
114.00
655.50
139.00
513.50
769.49

7

7
23
12
4
22
26
12
15
17
29

5
9

57
16
9
17
11
10
10
4
21
3
47
12
33
9
18
24
6
13
26
12
23

22
16
4
27
25
12
15
23
33
6
15
48
16
9
16
13
11
13
3
15
3
47
12
24
7
18
30
3
14
27
18
20

7
58
18
31

7
19

5
26
28

7
12
27
37
4
14

57
16
10
15
13
10
19
3
12
3
36
11
30
13
19
31
2
18
20
13
22

.....

299.55
972.50
215.00
661.50
1013.55
1182.50
600.00
10.00
24.00
267.00
149.00
600.00
204.50
1523.84
431.00
84.00
210.00
116.00
1133.50
1050.00

16
13
13
11
9
4
5
60
20
31
10
29
39

51
22
34
9
27

.-.

583.05

..VI

No.

Members

484 Manches ter ____ _.585
485 Garden Grove ····---···· 586
486 Valley Forge _____.587
487 El Sereno ______ __ .588
488 Kauai ______ _____589

382
257
369
443
129
294
147
278
550
799
282
927
593
349
450
142
261
300
355
417
236
815
443
257
259
458
436
412
177
222
166
332
291

Lod9•

489 Compass -···---·- ·-·.590
490 Escalon ·····-····-- ···-··-··59 1
491 Tujunga ···-··•················592
492 All States --·-······· ··-···593
493 Service --·-······· ·-···-.59 4
494 Alexande r Graham BelL.595
495 Guardian ..
..596
496 Pearl Harbo~ •.....•........-598
497 Carmelita ··-······-··· ·······599
498 Lynwood ···--·--- ··--600
499 Grizzly ···-·····-········-···--601
500 Melrose -····-··-·· -·····-60 2
603
501 Dimond
502 Jubilee
503 Glassell Park ···-·-··-- ·605
504 Sojourner _____ __607
505 Granada ··-······················608
506 Providen t ·-·--····· ·····609
507 Elmhurst _ _ _ _610
508 Canoga ·------·- ·····-611
509 Temple City --·-·-·· ·612
510 Three Pillars ---·-··-- 613
511 Larchmont --··-··-···· ·····614
512 Hemet ···-··-··-- ··-·-···-6 15
513 R. E. Dolley ------ 616
514 Big Bear _ _ _ _ _617
515 Southland
618
516 Neptune
..619
620
517 Point Loma

··----- ---60 4

611

Charter
luued

Da9raa
Faes

Alfll.
Faas

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925

125

20.00
1.00
...............

75
100
125

75
75
50

75
100

-··---

10.00

---·
---·----

.................
.............

75
75

--------

100
150

-·-----

75
125
50

75
100

75
75
75
75
75
100
50

75
125
100
50

75
75

5.00

15.00
............

·-------

10.00
10.00
5.00
1.00

-------..............
10.00
10.00
1.00

----10.00
5.00

--·---

..............
.................
5.00

100
100
125

-·--10.00

100

...............

75

--·-·-

6.l.

DuH

lnlt.

Pauad

Raised

Per Capita

Memban
Contrlb.

End-.
Contrlb.

12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
16
12
12
12
15
15
12
15
12
15
16
12
12
15
15
15
12
15
15
12
12

13
18

20
15
16
24
3
18
6
17
13
45
15
60
28
16
30
4
16
8
17
16
15
46
28
9
12
37
20
15

19
15

1154.00
787.50
1111.20
1341.90
385.10
916.60
447.30
847.40
1612.90
2436.50
856.00
2831.10
1797.70
1046.40
1381.20
408.30
806.90
878.60
1072.80
1246.70
733.50
2492.70
1356.70
768.40
783.40
1422.60
1316.40
1229.00
530.30
663.00
486.60
1009.00

428.00
644.00
454.00
766.00
166.00
854.00
262.00
600.00
391.00
1453.00
514.00
1409.00
783.00
536.00
1020.00
122.00
599.00
262.00
730.00
488.00
765.00
1286.00
705.00
252.00
471.00
1055.00
428.00
538.00
267.00
297.00
78.00
548.00
453.00

865.00
156.00
179.00
317.00
269.00
594.25
5.00
354.00
904.00
657.00
654.75

14
22

5
26
8
17
12
44
15
48
27
13
29
4
18
8
20
16
23
37
21

7
15
34
13
14
6
9
3
15
15
53

5
8
4
19
IS
45

14
17
3
20

7
13
19
42
14
58
23

14
23
3
16
10
15
17
H
52
23
10
14
35
19
11
6
8
4
18
12
39

877.20
1891.50

1754.00

1402.40
1085.50
2656.00
665.60
2097.40
1581.00
831.50
765.60
855.40
637.20
803.30
2068.10
2096.00
668.50
1223.90
861.20
1233.50
671.90
1466.30
376.60
713.40
803.40
1150.80
896.90
852.90
460.10
1445.60
1892.60
1483.90
828.70
806.70
1441.20
1063.20
1223.30
2099.40
604.60

863.00
305.00
1312.00
568.00
1298.00
1046.00
431.00
374.0b
402.00
321.00
419.00
1559.00
1396.00
409.00
896.00
236.00
706.00
408.00
1581.00
218.00
339.00
634.00
202.00
922.00
472.00
344.00
1549.00
1273.00
532.00
374.00
586.00
1001.00
1157.00
724.00
1855.00
507.00

.°'

t~57.50

1190.00
842.10
932.50
149.90
339.00
602.17
723.00
548.00
64.50
709.50
660.00
134.00
191.00
735.30
659.18
830.00
367.00
464.00
171.00
219.00
220.50
S99.6S

--

518 Thr Gardrns ··-·-··--- 1521

463

519 Atwater -·················-·······1522
520 Menorah -·-···-- -··-623
521 Fortitude ··-··-······ ·-----624
522 Angeles Mesa ···-····-··· 625
523 Chula Vista ···-·-··· -···626
524 Lamanda Park ···-······-···627
525 Truth ···-················--·-··-628
526 Fairview ··---~--- ·---629
527 Ingleside ······-··-·· ····--630
528 Benevolence ····-·-····· ··-631
529 Normal Heights .._ .. _632
530 Poinsettia -·-··--··- ·---633
531 Victorville ·······-······-·····634
532 Riverside ···-······- -·-···63S
533 John Marshall -··-·-·······636
534 Palisades ··-··-·····- -····---63 7
535 Indian Rock ····-·-·--- --638
536 Composite ·······-··-"--········639
537 V eritas ·······-··-··- -····-···64 0
538 James A. Foshay ···-···---641
539 La Cumbre ···-·-··············642
540 Alta Loma -·-···--··- ····-643
541 Lomita - - - - - - 6 4 4
542 A. F. E. lrwin......_. ___645
543 Metropol itan ·------- 646
544 Hawthor ne ____ _647
545 Damascus ···-··········-····-648
546 Florence ··-········· -··-··-649
547 LaBrea ···-650
548 Menlo Park -···---. .651
549 Crescent a Valley ---...652
550 Fontana ......
653
551 Jordan ·········~-------654
552 Monte Vista -····-······-···6SS
553 Citro! -·---···· ··-···--6 56

367
874
215
690
510
276
255
286
210
270
676
685
215
403
291

409
221
460
125
240
267
387
295
283
150
455
624
496
275
264
468
330
400
670
200

1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1924
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927

125

75
100

75
75
75
100

75
100
80

75
55
75
100
100

75
125
100

foo

75
100
125
80

75
100

75
125
100
100
100

75
100

75
50

-----5.00

----···

1.00

...............
1,00
3.00

---------------------·
-------........

·····-··
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00

----------- ---------

---·5.00
........
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00

··---

..... ---

--·----

---1.00

12
15
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
15
12
15
12
15
18
12
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
12
12
12

26
10
47
16
37
32
11

47

30
9
42
14
37
33
10
8
8
11
10
38
42
16
20
8
18
11
52

9
42

7

5

5

10
8
16
28
H
8
47
39
15
11

11
12
15
25
14
10
45
34
27
12
16
26
37
21
58
14

8
12
12
29
10
10
37
39
18
14

11

12
8
13
48
38
14
25

7
21
11

H
28
36
23
53
15

24
8
H
15
34
37
13
10
6
15
6
42
44
15
16
11

20

14
30
39
28

57
13

389.00
785.25
3223.00
146.00
780.93
609.84
594.71
655.75
712.50
238.00
883.00
. 78.25
824.50
613.66
910.50
1015.00
158.00
500.00
864.50
262.00
252.00
809.50
231.00
935.01
167.50
334.70
554.75
116.05
267.00
1541.50
431.00
444.50
166.00

..so..

~

lodge

No.

554 John D. Spreckels ______657
655 Livingston ______658
556 La Habra --···-·-··-···659
557 Baldwin Park ____660
558 Malta ·····-----·661
662
559 Henry Knox
663
560 Ojai - - - - ·
561 Kaweah ---·-----·-665
562 Reseda ·-···---····------·-666
563 Meridian ----------·---667
564 San Gorgonlo ----··-668
565 John P. Jarman ____________669
566 Greenleaf --------·····670
567 San Clemente ________671
568 Laguna Beach ______672
569 Far West --··------····673
570 Los Cerritos ....................674
571 Modesto ----······--····-·-··-675
572 Wi11ow Glen ___________676
573 Liberal Arts _______-677
574 Altadena ----··--·-··--------··-678
575 Canby Cross ______679
576 Carmel ----------·--- - - -680
577 Dos Palos -------····--····-···681
578 Barstow ··--··-- ···--------·682
579 Redwood Empire ............683
580 Trona ------------684
581 San Marino __________685
582 Albany --------·------------686
583 Vista •...,.---·---------·--- --637
584 Oildale _ _ _ _ _ _688

---·------6a9

585 Pohona
690
586 San Carlos ., .....
5&7 Indian Wells Valley-691

588 Travelers ·---··-··----··692
589 Palm Springs _________693
590 San Antonio ____________694
591 Meudell --------------------695
592 Crossroads -----·---··------696
593 Saint Elmo ...- ...............697
594 Wm. D. Stephens ..........698
595 Bixby Knolls ..................699
596 Ponderosa ____:._______________700
597 Santa Ynez Valley ........701
598 Rosemead ·-··-----102
599 Westchester ....................703
600 Orinda --------··-----------------104
601 El Cerrito :___________ ,......705
602 Hunters Point Naval ....706
603 Lake Tahoe ---·--·--------107
604 Seafaring ___________.708
605 Lorenzo -----·-··-----109
606 Anacapa -----····--110
607 Rim of the World.........711
608 Los Altos --·-······--·----·-712
609 Castro Valley _____________713
610 Blue Lakes ___________714
611 Magnolia Park ........._715
612 Belmont Shore .......- ....716
613 Wayfarer _____............717
614 San Lorenzo Valley ......718
615 Estero ----··-----·----·-719
616 Mineral King _______720
____721
617 Home
618 George E. Tutt - -.....722
619 Acalanes ____________713
620 San Ramon Valley..........72-t
621 Saint John's --···-··----125
726
622 Yucaipa - ---·
623 Verdugo Hills .........- .....7'1:1

Members

Charter
Issued

0e9...
Fees

Afftl.
Fees

663
177
193
206
224
457
137
117
409
519
230
265
626
94
203
351
392
482
324
330
487
149
199
130
329
92
142
330
209
266
195
69
299
314

1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946

80
50
125
65

--................

75

-----25.00

100
50
100
100

...... .......
....... ........

184
159
183
149
254
107
102
244
240

1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953

125
100
100
115
80
100
125
100
80

10.00
5.00

79
114
289
122
130
180
51
200

174
127

97
92
143
119
134
129
105
61

75
68
134
71

77
80
81
74
51

125
50
50
90
100

75
75
100

75
75
75
175

---·····

-·-

---···----

...............
..............
1.00
5.00
25.00

--

1.00
10.00
______,,

75
75

...............

125

··----------

75

5.00

65

1.00

75

3.00
...............
10.00
1.00

100
55 .
50
100

--25.00

75
75

........

75

10.00

---

------

5.00

------

................

-------10.00

---- ---

10.00

-------

75
75
79
75
75

. -----·---

100

75
75

1.00
10.00
1.00

100

--------

75
75
100
100
100
100
125
100
80

75
75
125

1.00
........

..............

--------

25.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00

--------------------1.00

-------------

75
75
75
75

10.00
.............
15.00
............
...............

75
125

·--------·--

6.L

Dues

lnlt.

Paued

Raised

PerC.plt•

Members
Contrlb.

12
15
12
12
12
15
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
18
12

22

23
10
8
23
15
19
8
4
50
25
12
14
52
4
12
16
43
20
20
17

33

1986.20
543.30
587.70
664.40
691.70
1382.40
414.50
354.30
1347.10
1576.20
695.20
801.60
1956.70
277.80
609.10
1058.10
1256.90
1452.90
996.60
1008.10
1486.70
459.10
594.40
395.10
1069.10
283.80
441.80
1003.10
631.10
803.50
598.50
203.20
965.20
966.60

723.00
279.00
304.00
655.00
399.00
696.00
165.00
253.00
1949.00
759.00
390.00
305.00
1937.00
146.00
311.00
480.00
1464.00
496.00
619.00
671.00
1077.00
505.00
451.00
156.00
1371.00
261.00
311.00
730.00
218.00
374.00
242.00
70.00
1526.00

15
15
12
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
18
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
15
12
16

15

579.60
485.10
599.80
475.10
814.60
354.30
331.80
784.60
806.00
248.10
380.70
1002.10
379.80
431.00
593.10
159.90
637.00
594.60
443.30
293.30
295.90
490.70
407.20
449.60
429.10
399.50
189.90
254.50
215.20
479.60
245.90
251.30
271.00
277.90
250.60
171.90

435.00
261.00
844.00
513.00
975.00
444.00
460.00
880.00
1166.00
236.00
646.00
1671.00
402.00
746.00
689.00
147.00
712.00
1080.00
903.00
216.00
356.00
1274.00
905.00
811.00
789.00
1002.00
154.00
523.00
192.00
1609.00
663.00
243.00
400.00
416.00
612.00
424.00

9
9
20
11
22
4
8
54
24
11
10
54
3
9
15
44
14
20
22
31
12
11
4
40

7
9
20

7
11
8
2
43
21

7
27
14
29
15
12

27
35

27
8
8
8
40
5
10
15
9
11
12
1
35
17

13
9
23
14
28
13
12
25
41

7

7

20
49
11
20
21
4
18
32
25
5
11
32
25
21
20
31
4
15
6
37
19

16
53

7
20
25
4
19
31
28
3
11
25
20
17
17
31
4
13
6
28
11

7

7

9
12
12
11

15
14

11
7

11
11
24
19
19
11
3

57
25
11
12
44
4
11
15
36
24
17
15
28

7
7
9
35
5
11
14
9
13
13
3
23

18

18
8
22
15
21
16
12
25
34
5
17
62
8
14
28
4
20

27
22
4
10
·19
20
23
18
33
5
9
6
26
10
14
15
17
13
6

781.00

Endow.

Contrib.

409.00
381.00
450.00
286.50
257.00
1029.00
300.00
200.00
304.00
175.50
460.07
148.00
210.00
45.00
409.15
290.00
219.00
363.00
18.00
693.25
1012.00
321.00
312.50
264.00
457.40
94.00
288.00
745.10
434.00
119.00
144.00
142.00
627.00
1109.00

~

00

201.00
360.35
389.00
312.00
524.00
220.00
1104.50
565.00
501.00
162.00
271.57
602.15
113.00
132.00
447.50
40.00
424.00
387.00
379.50
275.00
204.00
122.00
241.50
399.50
121.00
293.00
135.50
163.00
155.50
358.00
227.00
204.50
192.25
155.50
154.66

'°
~

420

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

g:! 8888 ~8
88
c" ~~::g
.... ....
"'c3 ............

I.....S5

- .... l I l~
00<"1
lt'\ lt'\ lt'\

oci

.,,.i:

N.0

EXTINCT LODGES

,0

IQ .... lt'\

1-

4
4
6
7

~

N

f!.

....•:!! 888888 888888 8
~

E~

•0

::EO

~~~g~.,.;.,.;~gg~~g

-

-

.... oolt'looi-..55; :s""'""'""' .... <"l<"I

....

8R~88888888
s;8~$:2~
Ii~ NNN_.. .... S.,.;~SN
J!
.Jii.

...•

~

lt'\

('t')

('t')

N

7
9

0

11

N

~

('t')

8i

15

IQ

vi
lt'\

IQ

-

].. ........
""' lt'\ lt'\"
"'.,,
•Ill ......
...... 00
N
NN

.....

=
.:
I
c"'

=·

II:•

<""

0

('t')

"a.
('t')

~ ""~ flf")

26
28

IQ

-~

a.

olt'IN
o . - . .... <"loooi-..lt'lo
N

M N ..... ...,.....,.

___ _

29
31

"a.
""'

('t')

34
36
37

......
'\lt'\N
...........
lt'\lt'\NNlt'\l t'\NNNOOlt
.........................

1888 !8
18
:ci :cicici :ci

, ...... :-- ..... : -

421

39

18
: .,.;
IN

47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63
67
69
69
71

•

72
73
74
75
77

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851. ·
La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never
issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt.
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, Dec. 8, 1924.
Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
Michigan <;ity, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.
1864.
Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, u
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never
issued.
Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, OcL
13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19,
1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11,
1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never is-

sued.

118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,
1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
·
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
H8 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1865.

151
152
153
154
155
157
158

423

Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 10, 1862.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Ocl

15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never

issued.

175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never
205
213
218
222
223
226
227
238
239
240

issued.
Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa l'ro.
240, April 1, 1882.

424

249
251
252
257

263
270
276
284
298
311
340
342
350
364
371
372
386
398
413
432
438
456
496
542
553
597
611
612
616
628
664

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.

Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.
Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1918.
Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881.
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11,
1911.
Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,
1902.
Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
I'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
Kenneth, Kenneth, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 19,
1925.
Riverdale, Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, October 12, 1950.
Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554,
Feb. 16, 1940.
Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
·
Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.
Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,
1929.
Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,
1937.

425

Since Its Organization, April 18. A. L. 5850
1850
Jonathmn D. Stevenson_6. M.
C.lifornl• No. I
lorn Jan. I, llOO
Died Feb. 14, 1894

John A. Tutt...__ .__ o. G. M.
Caleb Fenner___.$, G. W.
Sashel Woods__J. G. W.
Levi Stowell
_6. T.
John H. 6ihon.____6. S.

1851
John A. Tutt.._. ___6. M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900

Benj. D. Hyam __________ o. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis
S. G. W.
Benj. S. Olds_____J. G. W.
Townsend A. Thomas.._.G, T.
Levi Stowell
6. S.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam____ 6, M.
Benicia No. 5
lorn March I, 1113
Died July 12, 1193

Chas. M. Radcliff..__ o. 6. M.
Addison Martin._______6.T.
J. R. McConnelL__J. G. W.
Addison Martin _______ 6. T.
Levi Stowell________6. S.

1853 .
Charles M. Radcliff-6. M.
Tuolumne No. I
Born Feb. 5, 1111
Died Dec. 31, 1819

T. A. Thomas.......___ D. G. M.
Jno. R. CrandalL.....S. G. W.
Richard F. Knott.......•J. G. W.
Addison Martin ________ G. T.
Levi Stowell_____. __6. S.

1854
William H. Howard __ .6. M.
San Jose No. 10
lorn A119. 2', 1110
Died Sept. 18, llU

Nath. G. Curtis ___.. D. 6. M.
Rector E. Cole______$, G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ____J. G. W.
Addison Martin______ 6, T.
Levi Stowell._____6. S.

185S
William H. Howard......6. M.
T. A. Thomas..- ...•...•..0. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ..___ $. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt._.•.J. G. W.
Addison Martln .._ _6. T.
Levi Stowell
6. S.

1856

William H. Howard _____ 6. M.
John A. Raymond ___ D, G. M.
Lemuel Lyon ____$. G. W.
Peter W. Randle......J. G. W.
Addison Martin..______ G. T.
Alex G. Abell..______ 6. S.

1863
William C. Belcher____ G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne___ D. G. M.
Louis Cohn. ____$. G. W.
Wm. A. Davies____J. G. W.
6. T.
James Laidley
Alex G. Abell_ _ _ 6. S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtls.-...G. M.

1864

Charles Marsh ________ D, G. M.
Aaron D. ParL-........5. G. W.
John B. Pope_,____.J. G. W.
Addison Martin _ _ _6. T.
Alex G. Abell
6. S.

William C. Belcher...- ...G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. 6. M.
Wm. A. Davies.-.......$. G. W.
ls1111c S. Titus.•_ __J, G. W.
6. T.
James Laidley_
Alex G. Abell
6. S.

We1hln9ton No. 20
Born Feb. I 1825
Died July 12, 1897

1858

1865
Nathaniel G. Curtis ____ 6. M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M. Gilbert B. Claibome......6. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Wm, McCormicL... S. G. W.
Born 1828
Jas. W. BicknelL.._.J. G. W.
Died Dec. I, 1908
Addison Martin _ _ _6. T. Wn:. A. DavieL____ D. G. M.
AIH G. Abell ____&. S. ls1111c S. TituL ___s. G. W.
Henry H. Hartley.._J. G. W.
1859
6. T.
Nathaniel G. CurtiL.....6. M. James Laidley
P. W. Shepheard ____ D, G. M. Alex G. AbelJ. _ _ _6. S.
Ebenezer Lane _____ $. G. W.
Thos. P. Hawley.____J. G. W.
1868
Addison Martin ____ 6. T.
Alex G. Abell.____ 6. S. Gilbert B. Claiborne......G. M.
Henry H. Hartley___ o. G. M.
1860
Wm. H. Petenon.._.S. G. W.
Nathaniel G. Curtis. ___ 6. M. Thomas Beck.____J. G. W.
P. W. Shepheard___ D, G. M. James Laidley_____ 6. T.
Wm. C. Belcher........$. G. W. AIH G. Abell. ____6. S.
Alvinza Hayward......J. G. W.
Addison Martin ____ 6. T.
1867
Alex G. Abell.____,,__ 6. S.
William A. Davies..___&, M.
1861

James L English________ &. M.
Sacramento No. 411

Columbia No. 21
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916

Born June 5, lllJ
Henry H. Hartley__ D. G. M.
Died Mar 2', 1889
Thomas Beel._____$. G. W.
Wm. C. Belcher.-... D. 6. M. Leonidas E. Praft_____J, G. W.
John W, Harville......$. G. W.
A. Laldley..___ 6. T.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W. James
James Laidley..______ 6. T. Alex G. Abell____ &. S.
Alex G. Abell.______ G. S.

1862

1868

William C. Belcher____ G, M. Charles Marsh._____ 6. M.
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. I, 1895

Nevada No. IJ
Born Dec. 6, 1125
Died April 28, 1876

Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M. Leonidas E. Pratt...... D. G. M.
John W. Harville......$. G. W. Theo. G. Cockrill.__$, G. W.
John B. Hewson ••_.J. G. W. Fredk. F. Ban1___J. G. W,
James Laidley._ _ _.•6. T. James Laidley____6. T.
Alex G. Abell
9. S. Alo G. Ab.II
6. S.

426
1869

Leonid111 E. Pratt_ _G. M.
Mountain Shade No, II
Born A':.'.f. 29, 1833
Died 0 • 25, 1886
l111ac s. TituL. ___ G. M.
John S. Werd _______ .S. G. W.
Richard Del•---·--·.J• G. W.
Jemes Laldley_ _ _ _G. T.
G.S.
Alex G. Abell.

o.

1870

Leonrdas E. Prett_________ G. M.
Isaac S. TttuL_ _o. G. M.
Ch111. L Wiggin_.S. G. W.
Benj. H. Freeman ___J. G. W.
James Leidley
G. T.
G.S.
Alex G. A.,ell

1871
Leonides E. Prett_....- •.G. M.
Chas. L Wiggln .•• ___ G. M.
Ben. H. Freeman ..•.•.S. G. W.
Geo. C. Perklns..._J. G. W.
James Leldley~..----G. T.
Alex G. AbelL.--G. S.

o.

1872

1876

1883

John M. Browne____G. M.
Chas. L Wiggin
G. M.
Wm. S. Wells _____ s. G. W.
Solon W. Craigua_,.J. G. W.
James Leldle1·-·--··G• T.
Alex G. Abel -····-·······G• S.

Jonathan O. HineL.-6. M.
San Buen11Yentura No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin ...•_.O. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinsan .•_.s. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker.._..J. G. W.
Moses Heller------&. T.
Alex G. AbelL __ .,______6. S.

_.o.

1877
John M. Browne-..·---·-·G. M.
Chas. L Wiggin _o. G. M.
Wm. W. Traylor___ ..S, G. W.
Wm. H. Crane__.....J. G. W.
G. T.
Moses Heller
Alex G. Abell--·-·-···G. S.

1878
John M. Brown•--·--·&• M.
Wm. W. Traylor-.•. D. G. M.
Wm. H. Crane...•.•._.S. G. W.
Robt. C. Broder....._,J, G. W.
Moses Heller --···-·G• T.
Alex G. Abell-·-··········G· S.

1879

Williem W. Traylor_.___G. M.
Leonid111 E. Prett....•...••G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Born March 17, Im
Benj. H. Freeman..
G. M.
Died Jan. 18, 1883
Geo. C. Perkins...--S. G. W. Samuel C. Denson ....O. G. M.
John M. Browne........J. G. W. Clay W. Taylor--.S· G. W.
James Leldley_......._G. T. John Q. Adams. __J. G. W.
Alex G. Abell _____G. S.
G. T.
Moses Heller
Alex G. Abell---·-G. S.
1873
l111c S. Titus..-...........G. M.
1880
San Joaquin No. 19
Born Oct. I~ 1827
Samuel C. Oenson.....-.G. M.
Died April , 1892
Union No. 68
610. C. Perkins.__.•.O. 6. M.
Born Ser,t· 23, 1839
Died Ju y 26, 1917
Jno. M. Browne........S. G. W.
Chas. E. Mitchell....J. G. W. Clay W. Taylor........ D. G. M.
James Leldley_____G. T. John Q. Adams ........S. G. W.
Alex G. Abell·--·--·-·&• S. 0. W. HollenbecL.J. G. W.
G. T.
Moses Heller
Alex G. Abell______&. S.
1874
George C. Perkins.___ &. M.
Oroville No. 103
1881
Born AUCJ. 23, 1839
Clar,,W. Taylor.......•...... G. M.
Died Fali. 26, 1923
estern
Star No. 2
John M. Browne-.. D. G. M.
Born Sept. IOI 1844
Wm. B. Parker...... _••S. G. W.
Died May I, 897
Wiley J. Tinnln ..•___.I. G. W. John Q. Adams........ O. G. M.
James Leldley____ G. T. Jonathan D. Hines._.S. G. W.
Alex G. AbelL,___•• G. S. Thos. J. Bowars.__J. G. W.
G. T.
Moses Heller
1875
Alex G. AbelL----·-6• S.
John M. Browne............G. M.
Naval No. 87
1882
Born May ID, 1831
Clay W. Taylor--&. M.
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Chas. L Wiggin ...... D. G. M. Jonathan D. Hines.... D. G. M.
Wiley J. Tlnnin ..........S. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson __S. G. W.
Jacob H. Neff._ ....J. G. W. George Hinds__.I G. W.
James Leldley_ _ _G. T. Moses Heller _ _6. T.
Alex G. Abell_........-.6· S. Alex G. Abell----·--&. S.

_o.

427

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1884
Jonathan D. Hines ........G. M.
Wiley J. Ttnnin ........ D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ..-S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G. W.
Moses Heller ______G, T.
Alex G. Abel'--·---···G· S.

1885
Wiley J. Ttnnln ....•.- .•...G. M.
Trlnl~No. 71
Born ct. 7 1829
Died Nov. l4, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson ......O. G. M.
Hiram N. Ruckar.-...S. G. W.
Henry H. Knapp......J. G. W.
Nathan W SITaulding __G. T.
Alex G. Abe l.______ G. S.

1901

1895

1889

Morrl1 M. Estff-6. M. Edward M. Preston ____ G. M.
Nevada No. 13
William Johnston _D. G. M.
Born May 4, 1841
Chas. R. Gritman___S, G. W.
Died April 24, 1903
Henry S. Orme_.J. G. W. Wm. T. Lucas.•.- -.•.0. G. M.
N•than W Spaulding _G. T. Thomas FlinL_.__..S. G. W.
Alex G. Abell--....-.G. S. F. M. Angellotti......J. G. W.
Edward Colemen.•.•_. ___G, T.
George Johnson ----.• G. S.

1890

Alvah R. Conklln......- .... G. M.
Inyo No. 221
Born 1835
Died Oct. I, 1897
William Johnston ___ O. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritman_S. G. W.
Henry S. Orrne._.....J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding __ G. T.
George Johnson ..- ...G. S.

1891
Wiiiiam Johnston ..........G. M.
Franklin No. 143
lorn June 2, 1821
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Chas R. Gritman ____ o. G. M.
Henry S. Orme _.S. G. W.
Jes. B. Steven•·--····.J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _G. T.
George Johnson ___&. S.

,

1896

1902
Orrin S. Henderson ...-.G. M.
Mornln9 Star No. 68
Born June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting ....O. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter.._.S. G. W.
Motley H. Rint._J. G. W.
Edward Coleman_,___ G. T.
George Johnson ___&, S.
Wm. H. Edwards..__..G. L

o.

1897

1903

Thomas Flint ---·--·G• M.
Texas No. 46
Born May 19, 1858
Died Nov. 18, 1936
F. M. Angellotti.....•..O. G. M.
Chas L. Patton _____ s. G. W.
Jes. A. Foshay___.J. G. W.
Edward Colemen .. ___G. T.
George Johnson ___&. S.

1892

1898

Edmund C. Atkinson .... G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov. 17iJl837
Died March , 1911
Hiram N. Rucker..•... D. G. M.
Morris M. Estee..- ...S. G. W.
Alvah R. Conklln...... J. G. W.
Nathan W Shauldin9 - ..G. T.
Alex G. Abe L .....•........G. S.

Charl111 R. Gritman __ ..G. M.
Yount No. 12
Born Dec. ID, 1818
Died May 14, 1894
Henry S. Orme........ D. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens..- .....S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston...•.-.J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
George Johnson ____....&. S.

Frank M. An~ellottL.. G. M.
Marin No. 91
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 23, 1932
Chas. L. Patton ........0. G. M.
Ja1. A. Foshey._.___s. G. W.
Wm. S. Wells..._____J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.......•_..G. T.
George Johnson ---·-····&• S.

e.

1899

1893

o.

William T. Luces............G. M.
Guadalupe No. 237
Born March 18, 1850
Died March 21, 1931
Thomas Rint_ _____ G. M.
F. M. Angellotti...._.s. G. W.
Chas. L Patton.-...J. G. W.
Edward Coleman........_G, T.
George Johnson ··-·___G, S.

1888

1887

William S. Well1_6. M.
Martine No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
Died Jan. 23, 1919
O. S. Henderson ___ G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting _s. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter _J. G. W.
Edward Coleman-·····---G• T.
George Johnson ___&. S.
Wm. H. Edwards_____.,G. L

Charles W. Nuttin?i··-·G• M.
Evenln9 Star No. 86
Born Oct. 3 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ......0. G. M.
Motely H. Flint__.S. G. W.
Edw. H. Hert___J. <;. W.
Edward Colemen ___&. T.
George Johnson _ _6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards.__,_&. L

1904
George W. Hunter_....&. M.
Humboldt No. 1'
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, 1925
Motley H. Flint........ D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart___.•_S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine ._.J. G. W.
Edward Colemen_____ &. T.
George Johnson -·--6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards._____&. L

1905

Hiram N. Rucker ____
M.
La Gran9e No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Morris M. Estee...- ...0. G. M.
Alvah R. Conklin_....S. G. W
Wm. Johnston .....- ..•J. G. W.
Nathan W Shauldin9 •. -G. T.
Alex G. Abe '--·-··-··---6• S.

Henry S. Orme_____..G. M.
So. California No. 278
Born March 25, 1837
Died Nov. 290 1912
J111. B. Stevens-... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston._..s. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas......-..•..J. G. W.
Edward Colemen ....•••..... G. T.
George Johnson ·-·····-&• S.

Charles L Patton _ _ G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Born 1865
Died April 11. 1923
J111. A. Foshay.......... O. G. M.
Wm. s. Wells___s. G.
0. S. Henderson_•.J. G. W.
Edward Colemen ............ &. T.
George Johnson ___...&. S.

w.

Motley H. FlinL-....- ..G. M.
East 6ate No. 290
Bom Feb. 19, 1861
Died July 14, 1930
Edward H. Hert.__ G. M.
Geo. M. Perine__...S. G. W.
Reuben H. Uoyd __J, G. W.
Edward Coleman ______&. T.
George Johnson _ _6. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds .._. __6. L

1888

1894

Morris M. Estee........-6. M.
Callfornle No. I
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Oct. 7, 1903
Alvah R. Conklin ...... D. G. M.
William Johnston_.__S. G. W.
Marc. O. BorucL....J. G. W.
Nathan W SUauldln9 __6. T.
Alu G. Abe ·----·--·-&. S.

Jemas B. Stevens_.....&. M.
Yount No. 12
Born March 27, 1141
Died Dec. 6, 1919
Edw. M. Preston ...••-.0. G. M.
Thomas Flint..____J. G. W.
Wm. T. Luc111____ G. W.
Edward Colem1111.--G. T.
G10C'9e Johnson - - 6 . S.

James A. Foshay........._.G. M.
So. California No. 271
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells-....••.0. 6. M.
0. S. Henderson __$. G. W.
Chas. W. Nutting __J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .. ____ G. T.
George Johnson _ _G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards______ &, L

Edward H. Hart - - -•• 6. M.
Liva Oak No. 61
Born 1851
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Gao. M. Perlne__D. 6. M.
Reuben H. Lloyd_S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler__.I. ~. W.
Edward Coleman _ _&. T.
George Johnson _ 6 . S.
Wrrt. H. Edw1rds____6, L

s.

1900

o.

1906

428

1913

1907

\925

1919

George M. Perin•..- ....G. M.
Pacific No. 136
lorn 1852
Died Oc:t. 6, 1933
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler....- ......S. G. W.
W. Frank Plerce........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T.
George Johnson ____ G. S.
Thomas J. Beker........_ ... G. L.

John D. Murphey_ _&, M.
Alta No. 333
lorn July 7, llQ
Died Sept. 15, IMI
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ D. G. M.
Alb. G. Burnett........S. G. W.
F. V. Keesling .......- ...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
G. S.
John Whicher_
Thomas J. Beker·--···-···G• L.

Chas. Albert Ada""-6· M.
Excelsior No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1167
Geo. F. Rodden ........ D. G. M.
Sam. E. Burke.. _..___ $, G. W.
Wm. A. Sherman ......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer·-··-···G• T.
John Whicher........•- .......G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........- .. G. L.

1908

1914

George F. Rodden ........G. M.
Marin No. 191
Bom Dec.24, 1167
Died March I, 1934
Sam. E. Burke_____ D, G. M.
Wm. A. Sherman .. _S, G. W.
Arthur S. Crite1.___J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher....·---·····G• S.
Thomas J. Baker·--····-···G. L.

G. M.
..
Oscar Lawler
&st &ate No. 290
lom Aprll 2, 1171
W. Frank Pierce.....-.D- G. M.
Dana R. Weller __S. G. W.
A. J. Monro•.--J· G. W.
Edward Colemen ____G. T.
John Whlcher.-·--··G. S.
Thomas J. Baker......- ..-.G. L.

1909
W. Frank Plerce..·-····-·G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born Jan. 16, 1155
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dana R. Weller ........ D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe___ ...S. G. W:
Wm. P. Filmer _ _.J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.____..G. T.
John Whicher-..- ......G. S.
ThomH J. Bak.er. ___ G. L.

1910
Dana R. Weller.·-···-·····G. M.
So. C.llfomla No. 271
lorn March 24, 1174
Died Jan. 9, 1'47
A. J. Monroe... __ ..... D. G. M.
G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer..
J. D. Murphey __.•..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.•.•.--..G. T.
John Whicher..-----···G. S.
Thomas J. Baker...- ......•..G. L.

_._s.

Benj. F. Bledsoe ·····--··G• M.
San Bernardino No. 341
Born Feb. I, 1874
Died Oct. 30, 1931
Alb. G. Burnett.- ... D. G. M.
F. V. Keesling .... __ G. W.
W. Rh. Hervey____..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer·-·-···G. T.
John Whicher______ ..G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........- ...G. L.

s.

1915
Albert G. Burnett......•...G. W.
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born April 9i 1156
Died Au9. b, 1923
F. V. Keesling ..- ........ D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey......S. G. W.
Bradford Webster.... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Fllmer..... _G. T.
John Whicher.._____G, S.
Thomas J. Baker________G. L.

1916
Francis V. Keesling........G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Born Feb. 17, 1177
Wm. Rh. Hervey...... D. G. M.
Bradford Webster....S. G. W.
Chas. A. Adams........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whlcher...........•- ..•.G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........- ...G. L.

1917

1911

Alonzo J. Monroe. ____ G. M.
Humboldt No. 7'

1920

1921
Samuel E. Burke............6. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Wm. A. Sherman ...... D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crites........S. G. W.
David J. Reese ..- ..•...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.. ______ &, T.
John Whicher._____ G, S.
Thomas J. Baker._ _ _ &, L.

1931

Albert E. Boynton_ _&. M.
Oroville No.lllJ
lorn Oct. 9, 1171
Died Feb. 22, 1941
Geo. L. JoneL ___.D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer.___ $, G. W.
Gus. A. Hutaff___J. G. W.
Wm. Plarkar Filmer....._ ..G. T.
John Whicher....._...........G. S.
Thomas J. la.ker.•....••.--6· L.

1932
Frank W. Mixter........- ..6. M.
Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, 1173
Died May 22, 1947
James B. Gist...-.. D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton ____ G. W.
R. v. Whiting _______J, ·s.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... _..G. T.
John Whicher....·-·-·-·-G. S.
Thom111 J. Baker..........--G. L.

s.

1927
Will H. Fischer.........___G, M.
Wllshlre No. 445
lorn Sept. II, 1171
Died Oct. 4, 1953
Gus. A. Hutaff.......... D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg....S. G. W.
J. S. Ross.·-······--··-·J. G. W.
Wm. Pluker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher_______....G. S.
Thom111 J. Baker....-----G. L.

1922

1928
Gustav A. Hutaff....- ...G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. 5, 18741
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg .... D. G. M.
J. S. Ross.·-·--·····-.S. G. W.
Robt. B. Gaylord ____J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.•______ 6. S.
Thomas J. B•k•r·--····-···G• L.

1923

1938

1928
George L. Jone•·-··-··-·6. M.
Madison No. 23
Born May II, 1873
Will H. Fischer_.D, G. M.
Gus. A. Hutaff______ G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg_..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...- ..-.G. T.
John Whicher________G, S.
Thom111 J. laker........•.....G. L.

William A. Sherman......&. M.
Presidio No. 354
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Arthur S. Crites........ D. G. M.
David J. Ree1e ___ _ G. W.
Alb. E. Boynton-•...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- ..•...6. T.
John Whicher....----···6. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L.

s.

1937

Robt. I. Gaylord _ _ &, M. James T. Fraser_ _...&. M.
Humboldt No. 7'
Oakland No. 188
lorn Au9. 21, 1161
lorn Nov. 24, 1176
Died June 26, 1953
Died Au9. 4, 1953
Frank W. Mixter._ ... D. G. M. Leon 0. WhihelL.._D, G. M.
James B. Gist__.__ $, G. W. William H. Waste ....S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton ... _.....J. G. W. William B. Ogden....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer....•.....G. T.
John Whicher•...._...........G. S. John Whicher_·····--·-···6• S.
ThomH J. Baker..............G. L. Leslie E. Wood •.·--··-···-6. L.

1929

s.

w.

1933
James B. Gist..·-·-·-····G• M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Aug. 8, IB6B
Died April 25, 1954
R. V. Whiting ............ D. G. M.
Earl Warren .....- .......S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller.. _. __J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.....- ... G. T.
John Whicher_______ G. S.
Thom111 J. Baker...- - G . L.

1934

Frank M. Smith ..........- .. 6. M.
East Gate No. 290
Bom April I, 1894
Died April 7, 1'151
Leslie E. Wood .. ___D. G. M.
Claude H. Morrison ..S. 6. W.
G. C. CeForest..____J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- •.-.6. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson.·-·-···-·6• S.
Chester H. Warlow..•.....(p, L.

Died June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Rlmer..-_.D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey_____ G. W.
Benj. F. Bladsoe__...J. G. W.
Edward Coleman...- .. G. T.
John Whlcher__ ,______ G, S.
Thomas J. Baker. _____.G. L.

1912

1918

1924

1930

Earl Warren_·········--···&• M.
Sequoia No. 349
Born March 19, 1891
Rollie W. Miller_D. 6. M.
James T. Fraser..-.S. G. W.
Leon O. WhihelL._.J, 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...____ G. T.
John Whicher___......-6. S.
Leslie E. Wood•.·-··-·-···6• L.

John Stewart Ross _ ..6. M.
El Centro No. 384
Born May 21 1879
Died Au9. 31, 1952
Robt. B. Gaylord ..._.D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter._..•..S. G. W.
James B. Gi1t... ______J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.. _. ___ G, T.
John Wliicher______ G, S.
Tbom111 J. Baker_ _ _&. L

Rollie W. Miller..- ........ 6. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, 1883
James T. Fraser______ D, G. M.
Leon 0. Whihell..._.S, G. W.
William H. Waste_..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer._____ c;, T.
John Whfcher _ _ _ _ G, S.
Leslie E. Wood _ _ _&. L.

Wm. P. Filmer................G. M.
Kln9 Solomon No. 260
lom March 2, 1866
Died NOY. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey_____ D. G. M.
Banj. F. Bledsoe........S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett ___.I. G. W.
Edward Coleman____G. T.
John Whlcher_ _ _ _G, S.
n.0111111 J..........--G· L.

Bradford Webster ____6, M.
Live Oak No, 61
Born Dec. 14, I 169
Died June 4, 1941
Chas. A. Adams........ D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ....- ..S. G. W.
Sam. E. Burke..._. ___J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...-_.G. T.
John Whicher______ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker_ _.6. L.

David J. Reese..............G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Au9. 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Alb. E. Boynton.•...•.. D. G. M.
Geo. L. Jones.·-·-····S. G. W.
Will H. Fischer.._ ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...__..G. T.
John Whicher____ .6. S.
Thomas J. Bak•-.--6• L.

s.

1940

1935

C. M. Wollenberg.-...G. M.
Starr Kln9 No. 344
Born Merell 13, 1873
John S. Ross_ _ _ D, G. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord___ G. W.
Frank W. Mixter_..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer _ _G. T.
John Whicher________ G, S.
Thomas J. Baker_ _ _ &, L.

s.

1939
William B. Ogden-....••6. M.
Hollywood No. 351
lorn Au9. 26, 1876
Died Sept. 12, 1954
Lloyd E. Wilson._____ D, 6. M.
Frank M. Smith._.•..S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood .. _ ...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer........_&, T.
John Whicher_____(7, S.
Walter Leonud___...6. L
Uoyd E. Wilson .._. ___ &, M.
ln9laslda No. Bl
Born Au9. 16, 1195
Frank M. Smith._____ D, 6. M.
Leslie E. Wood ... _...S. 6. W.
Claude H. Morrison ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.·-·-···&. T.
John Whicher......·-·-·-··G• S.
Walter Leonard ..____ &. L.

Arthur S. Crites ______ &, M.
Bakersfield No. 224
Born Feb. 4, 1179
David J. Reese.-.. D. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton.____$, G. W.
Geo. L. Jones ___ .____J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer-···-···&. T.
John Whicher_____....6. S.
Thomas J. Baker............•.6. L.

1851

Leon 0. Whitsell.....- ...G. M.
Oran9e &rove No. 293
Born July 10, 1876
William H. Waste.... D. 6. M.
William B. Ogden_..S. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wllson. ___J, G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer___ &. T.
John Whicher._ _ _ ..•G. S.
Leslie E. Wood._, ____6, L.

Randolph V. Whiting ....G. M.
King Solomon No. 2611
Born Nov. lOl 1870
Died Feb. 4, 952
Earl Warren .._. ___ D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller...- ...S. G. W.
James T. Fraser........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer•..- .....G. T.
John Whicher_______ ..G. S.
Leslie E. Wood. ...............G. L

Wm. Rhodes Hervey_.G, M.
Pentalpha No. 202
lorn March 26, 1870
Died Feb. I 1953
Bradford We~ter.._D, G. M.
Chas. A. Adam1._..... S. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden _____J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.....- ...G. T.
John Whicher________ G, S.
Thomas J. Baker.........-_.6. L.

lom Oct. "

429

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1936

1941

1942

Leslie E. Wood ........._.'9. M.
Provident No. 609
Born Aprll 2, 1897
Claude H. Morrison .. D. G. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest.. S. G. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer--..- ... G. T.
Lloyd E. WU.on ..___ .6. S.
L
Chester H. Warlow___

e.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

430

1943

1947

1951

Claude H. Morrison_&. M.

Chester H. Warlow.___(;, M.

Louis C. Drepeeu_Q. M.

San Diego No. 35
Born July 10, 1887
Died Nov. 2, 1953

Gilbert C. DeForest..D. 6. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesllng .._.G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson____ G. S.
Chester H. Werlow_G, L

1944

Gilbert C. DeForesf_____ c;, M.
Readlnc;i No. 254
Born Sept. 18, 1189
Died Jan. 25, 1952

Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore___J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesllng ___G. T.
Uoyd E. Wilson ...___..••.G. S.
Chester H. Werlow__.G, L

1945

Fresno No. 247
Born June 30, 1889

Edward H. Siems.._.D. G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer•. - .•-S. G. W.
Arthur Peulsen........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling._.....G. T.
Lloyd E. Wllson .......- ...•.G. S.
Arthur M. Werren ..........G. L.

Poinsettia No. m
Born Aur.i. 30, 1885

Arthur M. Werren .. D. G. M.
Frank Harwell, Jr-..S. G. W.
Henry C. Cleusen_J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ....--G. T.
Lloyd E. Wil1on ....- ........G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L

1948

1952

Edward H. Slems..........G. M.

Arthur M. Warren ........&. M.

Plymouth No. 560
lorn December 7, 1903

Mt. Davidson No. 481
Born December 27, 19111

Ellsworth Meyer........ D. G. M.
Arthur Peulsen .....- ..S. G. W.
Louis C. Drepeeu......J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling .._ ..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...- ......G. S.
Arthur M. Werren ..- ..•..G. L

Frank Harwell, Jr•.... D. G. M.
Henry C. Cleusen ....S. G. W.
Edgar V. Stewert, Jr. J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ...- ...G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .........- ...&. S.
Elbert W. Devls.--····G. L

Lawrence C. Kelley ......G. M.

1949

1953

Ellsworth Meyer •.•......-.&. M.
Llberal Am No. 677

Frank Harwell, Jr-......G. M.
Beverly Hills No. 528

Arthur W. Brouillet......G. M.

Arthur Peulsen..........D. G. M.
Louis E. Drepeeu......S. G. W.
Arthur M. Werren ....J. G. W.
Francis V. Kee11ing ____ c;, T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .•.._. __ G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L

Henry C. Clausen.... D. G. M.
Edgar V. Stewert, Jr•..S.G.W.
L Herold Anderson..J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling_•..-&. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ______.&. S.
Elbert W. Devls..............G. L

Pantalpha No. 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Od. 24, 1945

Park No. 449
Born Jen. 21, IBM
Died Sept. 18, 1963

John R. Moore___S. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling_&. T.
Uoyd E. Wilson.___ c;, S.
Chester H. Werlow__ .6. L

1948

John R. Moore._____ 6. M.
Meridian No. 667
BomSept.1893

Chester H. Werlow..D. G. M.
Edward H. SiemL_.S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer._.J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ...- ..G. T.
Uoyd E. Wilson. _ _ G. S.
Arthur M. Werren..____ 6. L

Born Feb. 27, 1905

Born Odober 4, 1898

1950

1954

Arthur Paulsen _ _&, M.

Henry C. Cleusen..........G.M.

Trinity No. 27
Born May 4, 1890

Louis C. Drepeeu_.D. G. M.
Arthur M. Werren_:S. G. W.
Frank Harwell, Jr-J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling .._._c;, T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...._._c;, S.
Welter H. E. von Konsky 6.L

lnc;iluide No. 630
Born June 30, 1905

Edger V. Stewert, Jr ...D.G.M.I
L Harold Andenon ....S.G.W.
Leo E. Andenon ..........J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems.........- ...6.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Elbert W. Devis................G.L

431

UST OF INSPECTORS
lnapedor•

Date of Commisaion

Dimicl

John M. Icardo-··-·····-·· --······--······-··-· ··January, 1921-····-······-··-······-···380
S. Leslie Hawken -·-··---··-···-····· ·····January 27, 1925..·-··-··--············-···364
Clarence L. Fraser..._..............................December, 1927..........................- .."2'
Wm. S. Thompson.........--··-·····-··-··--·· ··.March, 1928..·-··-··-··-······-··-·· ·412
Rudolph Mohr, Jr.:-·----··-·- ·--···January , 1929................................334
Geo. P. Salm ··········--··-····-·· -·--·-········.June 14, 1930................................538
Niles 0. Millar---···-·--··-··--············-············.July, 1932................................348
Thomas B. Pollard.........--····--··-··-··.J anuary, 1933...............................J516
H. R. Hargrave..·-··-··--··-··-··-··· ····September 15, 1934...........- ...................418
Chas. H. K.nights................................. December 28, 1934...- ...........................648.
Alexander D. Potts..........................- ..- ..January 1, 1935·--·····-··········-··-···384
John Behrens ----·-··---··-- ··--.January 2, 1935................................378 ·
Chas. S. Hogan......·-···-···-····-······--··············-.Aprfl, 1935................................106
Carl C. Mikesell.·--··-········-··········-·············October, 1935................................604
Samuel Dollar --·--··--··--- ...Decembe r, 1935..·-··--··-··-··-··-··· 416
Willard G. Babcock.............- ................January 10, 1936................................616
James W. Robinson......................................January, 1936........•.......................206
William C. Gover---···-····· ···········--··-Oct ober, 1936................................110
Carl F. Peters..·--··-·-··· ······-············.No vember 1, 1936.........................._ ...534
George S. Ward.........·--····-················-···January 1, 1937................................104
Fred Weed.·-··-··--··-··-·························September, 1938................................642
George L. Stivers.·--··---· ·········-·····-.Nov ember, 1938................................210
Guido de GhetaldL......................................October, 1938................................306
Roy S. Lenthall.·--·--···············-···············January, 1939................................354
J. Wesley Sibole---··-··-· ···········-····-····December, 1939--··-··-··-··-·· ····-··.224
J. Tyler Parker, Jr....- .........................September, 1940....••.- ......,................514
Harold S. Momson......... _....................December 1, 1940--··-··················-···512
Henry Ka1aer------· ·--········-··--·- .April 1, 1941-··-··-······-·· ····-···408
Rolla L. Eubanks..-·-·-· ·-········-··-··-·-· ·-.AprU. 1941•.. _...........................320
Miles J. McClelland....-··-················-··-··.March 10, 1942-·-··-··············-··-···218
Orville L. Coburn..·-·--···················-···-·.March 3, 1943................................430
Elmer M. Hopper..................................... --.May 10, 1943...- ...........................304
Henry S. Savage, Jr............................ ___ .....July 4, 1943................................352
Melvin R. Berbower..·-··-············-··.N ovember 10, 1943..........................- ..624
Frederic E. ClarL----·-·· -··-...Januar y 26, 1944..-...........................530
Ray W. Mclntyre.•.-···-·······-··············-··-.March 8, 1944................................374
John RamsaY---··-· --··-··········--·- ···-·.July 6, 1944.................................620
Dwight C. Freeman.-·-- ·-··-·--·_.Ma rcb 2, 1945•.- ...........................MS
James B. Lawso11...-..-··············-··-·-···..March 6, 1945................................426
Arch Balchin....- •.- .........·-··········--··.Ma:rch 27, 1945-·-··-·················-···-414
Floyd H. WatsOD..-..-··········-··-··-··-·.March 30, 1945................................504
Edward C. Lohmeyer........................September 27, 1945·--···-·-··-··-· ·····-···322
Alexander Duncan.---·························-···October 9, 1945................................301
Robert W. Nicol-..-..........................October 24, 1945................................612
W. Corell Smith..-.......:... ___ .. _ ..December 20, 1945-·-·-·-··-·· -··--.222
Louis L. Cunningham................. ·-···-····.August 2, 1946..- ...........................536
W. Ralph Anderson................................November 4, 1946................................360
Frank W. Johnson......................... _ ...November 21, 1948.........................- ...544
John A. Crosbie.-..............................November 21, 1946-·-··-··-··-··-· ···-···532
Arch T. Roberson................................... _...January 1, 1947................................402
Ray R. Bell.....-·-··············-··············-··---··.Aprll 7, 1947............... _..............Jl82

432

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

I1upector1

Date of Commission

Stephen E. Skidmore........·-··--··-···-·········.April 7, 1947..·-·····-······-··········-808
Fred C. Pritschke..·--···--··-··--··-··-·-.April 7, 1947-·-··-··-······-··-··-···428
Harry Burrows -·-··-···-··-···-··-··-December 15, 1947···-··---·····:-..- ..- ..302
Russell N orthrop....·---·--·····-···---December 20, 1947···-······-··-·-··-··--.524
Frank R. Killinger, Jr.................. ___ .December 29, 1947 ......·-··-········--·······*
Howard S. Kaulbach...........................December 29, 1947..........·-··-···············358
Stanley Hurst Wentz............·--··-····-······.March 16, 1948......................·-··-···228
Roy T. Kiele.....-··-··--·······-·······-··-··-····.April 22, 1948....·-········--··-·········542
William T. Rodger..........................................April 22, 1948................--···········628
Robert N. Walker............................................July 28, 1948......................- ........368
Elmer Glen Van TasselL. .................September 11, 1948..·-··-·-······-···········llZ
Reginald Reynolds................................November 5, 1948........... _...................108
Albert E. Carroll....... ·-··-············-·······-·.January 7, 1949...........................- ...610
Louis H. MahlE:r...................................- ...January 31, 1949..·-·····················-···520
Orin Compton..·-···--··---········-··-··-··.February 9, 1949...................- ...........420
John A. Owen. .. ·-··-··-··-·-··-····-··---····-.May 16, 1949.................·-··-··-···550
Chas. A. Thomasset..·--········-··-··-··-····-·····June 28, 1949.......... ·-····--······-···570
Eric Wm. Nelson............·-·······--·······-········June 30, 1949....................- ......... .202
William Nankervis, Jr.·-··-··-·····-···········-···June 30, 1949......·-··············-·····-362
Eugene P. Jijine..........................- ......September 16, 1949...........- ...................382
Wilson Ernest LathroP·············--······--···October 1, 1949........•......- ...............410
· Robert H. Taylor....·-··-···-··-······-··-··November 7, 1949.................- ...........348
Herbert H. Schultz...·-··--·-···--····-··.January 16, 1950........... ·-·····-······-···340
Maurice E. Coftey..·-·-·-··---·-----··.January 16, 1950...............- ...............342
Perry M. Spencer...·-············-···············January 16, 1950...............- ..............336
Jack Mast.-······-····-········-··-············-·····January 16, 1950..........•_.•.................310
Earl Caldwell.---···-········-···············-······January 16, 1950..·-··········-···············324
Delbert E. Luck..............·-··-··--··-··-·-··-··.April 14, 1950..................- ...........406
Elmer R. Lotz..·----··-··-····-··--·-·__.A pril 14, 1950..·-······-··············-···522
Elvin C. Drake..·-·----··-··--··--A pril 14, 1950.. ·-··-··-······-··-··-···526
John BrighL..........·-··-···-··-----··-·---.May 8, 1950..................·--·-·····602
Anson McArthur....·-········-······--···········-·----.May 8, 1950..·-··-·················-····552
Albert V. Younga....·-·····--··-·--··-·-··-··.May 8, 1950·-·········--····-···········554
Chas. W. LunsfonL--·····--·-··--··-···-···· ·.May 8, 1950..........._...:........... _...556
Martin 0. Velan<L...... ____ ...._____________ .May 8, 1950..·-··········-··-······-···558
8, 1950......·-··-··-··-··-··-···560
Wm. E. Keogh
Paul Thompson.........---······-··-·····-·-·_May 8, 1950..·-··-··-··---··-··-···562
Myron E. Roudebush..·-··--····-···-···--··-··--.MaY 8, 1950..................·-··-··-···628
W. Ben SOrrells.---···-·--·-···--··-·---· ·--.May 8, 1950...........-...................634
Hugh D. Good..·-··-·-·----···---··--··-·- ·.May 8, 1950................................638
Ted R. Siems..------·--··-······--·····- -·.May 8, 1950... -...........................614
William N. Ped.der..·-·--··-····-··---·-·..May 8, 1950..·-··-··········-···········564
Leland E. Wallace....·-······--··-··-····-·September 7, 1950..............·-···-·-··-·-.204
Walter Edward Sanner............._...... November 24, 1950..............·-··-······-···326
Frank W. Raddatz........·-··-················November 24, 1950.....·-······-···-···········546
Olen F. Turner...............·-············-·····November 24, 1950......·-······-··-······-···630
Joseph Myron Ruggiero.........- ........December 21, 1950..·-··-·-··-··-····-·····332
Guy S. Harts, Sr...·-··-·······-·······-~---·December 21, 1950..·-············-············.508
J. Ralph DawdY----·-··-··-··---·-Jan uary 26, 1951..·-······-··-···············422
Andre L. Armand..·-···---····-··--······.Jan uary 26, 1951....-·-··········-··-·······276
Robert McGarva..·-··-·-······--··-··--······ .March 11, 1951......·-·-··-········--··-109
Jack Walton Leishman..·-········-····-····-·-···.May 18, 1951...-...........................337
Elmer Gaylord Quinn..·-········-··---··-········.May 18, 1951.•·-··········-·········-···367
Loren Alton Llo7d...----··-·---····-··-·.May 18, 1951-·····················-··-···370

------·--_May

Inspector•

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

433

Date of Commission

District

Jennings E. Muir..·-·····-·-··-······················.July 10, 195L........................... _.432
Joseph H. White....·-··-····-···-······--·······October 18, 1951...... ·-······-··········-···116
George H. Olmsted.....--····-·······-··········October 18, 1951...... ·-··-······-··--·-.216
Reginald Bunce....___ . -. .............................October 23, 1951........................... _...5'5
Charles Joseph Savage..·-······-····-······November 6, 1951....'··············-·······-··640
Kent 0. Seymour......·-······-··········-···November 15, 1951.......................- .......314
Carl F. La Vo....~---··························-··December 15, 1951......................·--···-..366
Carroll C. Doane..........·-··········-·······:.......January 1, 1952.......................- .......30'1
Ralph Geo. Riches..·-··---··-··-······-··- ···January 10, 1952..........·-······-······-···838
Ballard White, Jr...·-·--·-·-··-······-····December 12, 1951..........·-··-··-··-·······120
Orval A. Myers..·---··-··············-······December 12, 1951..........................._...118
Kenneth C. Stanley..................................February 7, 1952................................636
Wilfred W. Partridge.............................- ...March 31, 1952......·-···············-······502
Lynn A. Blacklnun......................................March 31, 1952...........................- ...503
Edward FarleY-······-·-···············-···········-·-····May 12, 1952......•.........................208
Burrell Clifford Jull_·······-······-···-············_May 12, 1952..........·--····-··-·-··.212
Harry K. Widup.........................- .......November 10, 1952....•··-··-······_._______344
James A. Drace................................... November 14, 1952.......................- .......228
Milton H. Lang.........- ..........................November 14, 1952................·-········--.MO
J. Harry Snowden. .................................December 9, 1952..............·-··········-···606
Fred L. Ferguson............................_........January 1, 1953..·-······················-···618
Carvil W. Marlatt...........................- .........January 1, 1953...............- ...............308
Henry P. Lawhom.. ---··-··············-·······January 19, 1953......·-··-··········--···566
John F. Knight...·-···················-······-·····January 19, 1953..·-··········-··········-···372
Paul F. Ruff..·--················-····················.February 4, 1953..........·-··········-·······361
Harry H. Airnan........·-·············-··-···············March 2, 1953..·-··················-·-···644
Paul A. Hackler........·-·············-················.March 26, 1953................................330
Samuel Steelman................·-··············-----APril 17, 1953.....·-··-··········-····--528
Clarence A. Trowbridge.. ·-····-··-··-···-···-·June 18, 1953......·-······-··-·····-···300
Lester Totten.~----····-·-·----··-·····-~---··.June 23, 1953..........·-··-··-··--·-···114
Sam Loven._______________............----··.June 25, 1953............... _...............214
Robert Edgar.•·-··········-···-·····--········-··.August 27, 1953..·-······················-···386
Ray Earl Burdg....·-············-·····-····-·····September 5, 1953..·-··················-·······217
Chas. R. Morton. .......................•...... _.September 14, 1953......·-··-······-·········..318
James E. Finley..·-··-··--·-··--·····-·······October 10, 1953..............·-······-···-··328
Albert Kiechle.............. ·-··········-··-···········October 26, 1953................................572
E. Lloyd Hanson...............- .........................January 1, 1954......................·-··-···350
John H. Ferguson. .......................................January 1, 1954............·-··--······-···622
Raymond Glenn Hollar.. - ..........................January 1, 1954............................... .220
Albert Brotherton. .....................................January 1, 1954..........................._...506
Milton Hoffe Sharp..................................February 1, 1954...............- ...............210
Gordon F. Porter................................... .February 10, 1954.......... ·-··········-··-···514
Claiborn Schonhoft.............................._......March 12, 1954...... ·-··········-··-·······402
Wallace H. Fiske............... _........................ .March 12, 1954.....·-···-··--- ··-··-··404
Fred Walker Waitman. .................................April 19, 1954...........- ...................518
Hugh M. Topping........................................... .April 19, 1954..........·-·······-·····---..568
Paul A. Wilson............................................: ...,.June 1, 1954.......................- ..-..510
Norbert Peter Tester.............. ·-················-···June 30, 1954....•..............- ...........646

i3i

PROCEEDrNGS OP THI!

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
1Ueogr0uJ tmtJ in Pf't1111rnal Re141ions wi1b 1h11
Gt'tmtl Lodg11 of Ctlifomi4

Argentina:
Alcibiades Lappas, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Bolivia:
Isaac Saravia Noriega, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564,
La Paz. Bolivia.
.
Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Fernando De Lemos Falcone, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Luiz Nepomucemo de Mattos, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaieza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
Eslu Eloy, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil.
.
The Grand Lodge of Para
Francisco da Silva Costa, Grand Secty, of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Jacy Garnier de Bacellar, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
0. M. deFleury, Grand Secty., Rel Ext.,
Caixa Postal 2611, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Grand Secretary
Rua Visconde de Morais No. 60, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Carlos Barcelos Fagundes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Estanislau Martinez Barra!, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
Canada:

AlbertaEdward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Calgary.
British ColwnbiaJ. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
OntarioEwart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton,. Ontario.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ManitobaThomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, ManitobL
New BrunswickR. D. Magee, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotlaReginald V. Harris. Grand Secty..
Freemasons' Hall, Halifax, Nova Scotia
Prince Edward IslandF. A. Van Iderstine, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E. L
QuebecR. W. Louthood, Grand Secty.,
1559 St. Marks St., Montreal, Quebec
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chllet
Cesar Bunster C., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A
China:
David W. K. Au, Grand Secty.,
lla Hart Ave., 1st Floor, Kowloon,. Hong Kong, B.C.C.

Colombia:
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A
Cosla Ricat
Enrique Chaves Bolanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1052, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba. Isle of:
Dr. Jose F. Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.

°Czecho-Slovakla1
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia at Prague.
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeEinar Hoeg, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen. Denmark.
Ecuador&
S. Clemente Perez Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Casilla No. 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S. A.
Egypt:
The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Sayed Kami! El Sharkawy,
Beite Postale No. 1714, Cairo, EOPt.

i3S

436

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

El Salvador (Cuscatlan):
Dr. Carlos Munoz B., Grand Secty.,
2a Calle Oriente No. 27, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
England:
Sidney A White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.
Finland:
Waino Sola, Grand Secty.,
P. Esplanaadik 35E, Helsinki, Finland.
France:
French National Grand Lodge,
L. F. Poirson, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, France.
The Grand Lodge of France,
Georges Marty, Grand Chancellor
8 Rue Puteaux, Paris 17, France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodge of Germany,
Walther Schiffman, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 16288, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
Greece:
Dr. Antonios Rammos, Grand Secty.,
58 Ioulianou St.; Athens, Greece.
Guatemala:
Carlos Bianchi, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 312, Guatemala City, C. A

Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
Prudencio Olivares, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Paci.fie
Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Ruben Marquez Romo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Filemon Arbiol Campos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mexico.
Grand Lodge ''Valle de Mexico"
Arnulfo T. Sobrevilla, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Ketherlancls:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. A A Galestin, Grand Secty..
22 Fluweelen Burgwal, The Hague.
Kew South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Hall, Sydney, N.S.W.
Kew Zealand:
F. G. Northern, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1833, Wellington C. L, New Zealand.

Honduras:
Miguel Angel Zelaya, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 28, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, C. A.
Ireland:
J. 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland
Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
E. Dubinsky, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Enzo Minutillo, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 1, Rome.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Cantwell C. Brown, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Miguel L. Pimentel, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 42, Tijuana, Baja California.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Rigoberto Trevino, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.

Nicaragua:
Greg A. Tapia Grand Secty.,
Apartado f02, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Norway:
Odd Lie-Davidsen, Grand Secty.,
Frimurerlogen, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama:
Nathan A. Reid, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.
Peru1

Cesar Cevallos Villacorta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2190, Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Antonio Gonzales, Grand Secty..z.
520 San Marcelino, Manila. .t'. L
Puerto Rico:
E. Isales, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 8385, Santurce, Puerto Rico.
~eensland:

E. G. Radford, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.

437

438

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

Scotland:
Alexander P'. Buchan, Grand Secty..
•
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES
A

South Australia:
F. J. Ellen. Grand Secty••
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaide, So. Australia.

A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acom (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),

Sweden:
G. E. A Bottiger, Grand Secty••
Frimurareorden, Blasieholmsgatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Swih:erland:
Grand Lodge Suisse Alpina,
Col. Paul Wittmer, Grand Secty.,
Erlachstrasse 9, Berne, Switzerland.

Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Tasmania:
H. A Wilkinson. Grand Secty••
1177 MacQuarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Venezuela:
Jesus M. Chango Gomez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Vidoria:
United Grand Lodge.
C. W. Davis, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.
*Vienna:

Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angelea.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellfiower.
Belmont Shore (716), Seal Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5) Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

W•lern Australia:
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G. P. 0. Box D-177. Perth. Australia.
*YugollavlaJ
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Croats & Slovenes.

•Recognized by the Grand Lodge of California prior to being rendered
inoperative before and during World War II, subsequent to which no resumption of fraternal relations has been effected.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c

.

Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.

Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Compton.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111). Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citrol (656), Brea

439

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued

ALPHABETICA L LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued

440

Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles. Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino,
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
EI Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Eve11green (259), Riverside.
Elk Grove (173). Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

F
Fairfax (556), San Anselmo.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Milla.
. Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.

Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.

Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanzit (492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Campbell.
George Washington (525),

San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Empire (733 , Sacramento.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.

441

Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles •
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howard (37), Yreka .
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Huntington Beach (380),
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntington Beach.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.

I
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.

Indian Wells Valley (691), China Lake.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Inyo (221), Independence.

J

James A. Foshay (641), Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.
Kit Carson (734), Sacramento.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Canada (739), La Canada.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.

La P'ayette (126), Sebastopol
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.

442

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICA L LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland,
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lakewood (728), Long Beach.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
La Puenta (446), Puenta.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco. Lorenzo (709), Hayward.
Los Altos (812), Palo Alto.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos,
Lemon Grove F36), La Mesa.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
le Progres de 1 Oceanie (371),
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Honolulu, T. H.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles.

M
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Madera (280), Madera.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Magnolia Park '115), Burbank.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa •
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Mari:posa (24), Mariposa.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Morningside Park (U.D.), Inglewood.
Maui (472), Ma'!.ii Kahului, T. H.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
McKinley (347). Richmond.
Mountain View (194),
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Mountain View.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Meridian. (667), Glendale.
Mount Moriah (44) San Francisco
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Olive (506) 'Los Angeles '
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
'
Mount Oso (460) Tracy
Midway (426), Taft.
Military Service (570), San Francisco. Mount Shasta (2Sl) Anderson.
Mount Vernon (517) San Francisco
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
'
'
Mineral King (720), Visalia.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley,

North East (266)~Fort Bidwell.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
Northern Light (190), Milville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Northern California Research
Lodge (U.D.), San Francisco.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICA L LIST OF LODGES-Contin ued
0
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oakwood (U.D.), Montrose.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.

Olivet (205), Comin~.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33). Murphy's.
Opportunity (U.D.), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
• Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (59jl), Honolulu, T. H.
Peninsula (U.D.), San Mateo
Penrhyn (358), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.

Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), No. Sacramento.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.·
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.

Rim of the World (711),
Lake Arrowhead.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Saint John's (724), Walnut Creek.

Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Antonio (694), South Gate.
San Benito (211), Hollister.

San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino.

PROCEEDINGS OF THI?

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGE S-Contin ued

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGE S-Contin ued

San Buenavent ura (214), Ventura.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Service (594), Long Beach.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
San Diego (35), San Die~o.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville .
San Dimas (428), San Dunas.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando. Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco. Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel
Silver Trowel (415), Hollywood .
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
· Sincerity (132), Greenville .
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
San Leandro (U.D.), San Leandro.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
Sotoyome (123), Healdsbur g.
Boulder Creek.
Southern California (278),
San Marino (685), South Pasadena.
Los Angeles.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel
Southern California Research
San ·Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
Lodge (U.D.), Hollywood .
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville. South Park (563), Los Angeles.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
South Pasadena (367),
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
South Pasadena.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara. South San Francisco (212),
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
San Francisco.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
South West (283), National City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona. ·
Speranza Italiana (219),
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
San Francisco.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Los Olivos Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Schofield (443), Schofield Barracks, Stockton (498), Stockton.
T. H.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Seafaring (708), Costa Mesa.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Searchligh t (567), Long Beach.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale .
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Security (581), Bakersfield .
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Selma (277), Selma.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi .
Tehama (3), Sacrament o.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacrament o.
Torrance (447), Torrance.
Travelers (692), Sacrament o.

Traver (294), Kingsburg .
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weavervill e.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200). Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (731), Bell
Tyre (U.D., Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

415

u
Union (58), Sacrament o.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge 587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.

Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville .
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Warren G. Harding (579),
Westwood (501), Westwood.
North Sacrament o.
White Pine (555), Weed.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Washingto n (20), Sacrament o.
William D. Stephens (698) Los Angeles
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Willits (365), Willits.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Wilmingto n (198), Wilmingto n.
Westchest er (703), Los Angeles.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
Winnedum ah (287), Bishop.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
Woodridge (131), Woodridge .
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles. Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), Los Angeles.

Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yuc.aipa.

446

PROCEED INGS OF THE

H7

INDEX FOR 1954
Page
A
Acalanes Lodge No. 723, Constituted-----------·--------------------------------------······-·-·--·---···------·-64
Additions and Replaceme nts Fund Audit----------------··----·------------------------······-·-··-··------------321
Affiliation Fees Tabulated ----------------------------------------------------------------··--------------------------··- 402
Alphabetic al List of Lodges-------------------------------------------------------···--------····----------------------440
Amendme nts to By-Laws

~~~~~~d ~~::i~~~~;~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 261

b6y
Annual Communic ation Date
Change Proposed for 1955______________ ......... -----------------------------·-···----··--·-----··--··-···----------31
Report of Jurisprude nce Committee-------------------------------------------···----··--·--------·---···--·--·-273
Annual Returns
Audit ···-··-----------------------------·-·--------···--------···--------------······-···-·--···--·····-··-··-··--·······---·-·---···
295
Membersh ip Reported ----------------------------··-·-------------------------·-·-·····--·-·--··-······-·--·---------····
Details by Lodges -----·---------------------------------------------·---------------···---------------··---·····-------···- 37
402
Appendix
General ········-·········---···--···-----------------· ··-------····-----------·-····--------·------····----------------------······
359
Special --·--·----------------------------------·-------------------------·---------·····-··----···--------------·-------------------293
Appointme nts by Grand Master
Officers -----·-·-···-----·-···----··--------------···-···--···---····--·-··-··------------------------··-··--------·------····-··-8,
Committee men ··-··········------·------------····-·····--------------····-··--·······--·--·-·----···-····--·---·-···--··---8. 290
290
Arvin Lodge
Dispensati on and Institution ----------------··-····-----------------·--·---·-------------·······-··············-40,
Per Capita payment waived·------------------··---------------···-·····--·--·-······--·-····--·········------·-····· 66
148
Chartered No. 738 ------·····-·-·---------·--·····--··-····------------·-··--------··-······-··-····--····-···-···---------140
Assessmen ts for Memorial Temple
Resolution s Received -------·--·------······-······-··--·--···--······-···-·-····-··-·-··--··-·-···-·····----28, 29,
30
Report of Policy Committee ____________ ......................... -----··-············--·····---·······
-----·--·-··--·- 285
Assignmen ts to Special Committee s
See Special Committee s Assigned
Assistant Grand Treasurer
Appointme nt of for Communication-----------·····-----------·-···-···-···-·····--··-······-···---····-·········
8
Attendanc e of Secretaries --······---·--·····-······-····--···--···-·-···-····-··-----·····---··-·--·················-23,
277
Audits
1954 Returns ··-···-·--··-··-·-···-···--·-·····---··-···········-·················--·-···-·-·····---···-----·········-·······-··· 295
Grand Lodge -····-····-·-····-····-·····-·······---------···-·-------·····-·--·-···-··-·······---···-·--··-·-········--------296
Endowme nt Fund -·-·····--------------·····-·-··-----·--···-··-···-··-······--·-·············-·-···-···-··------------····
Masonlc Homes -···-··················--·-···--······---···-------------·-··-······-·--·-·-·····-······-·--······-·-········· 327
312

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Grand Lodges have appeared quarterly in the
"California Freemason," two copies of which have
been sent to each Grand Lodge. This program
will be continued.
The "California Freemason" will be issued quarterly and each issue will carry additional reviews.
Hence, they do not appear in these Proceedings.

B
Balloting, Report of Committee on·-········---·······················-···-······-·--···--·-···---····-·····-·····-···
88
Bartenders ··--···---------------·---------------·-···-·-··-----·--····------···-·-····-·--·-····-----···-···--······-···--····-·24,
266
Biography , Frank Harwell, Jr ....----·····--------··-··--······-······-··········-·-·-···-··--·---··---··------------·-1
Board of Control Report .. ·---··--------···----------··············----···------·-·--··----··-·-············--···-··--··--·111
Brainard, Larry, Grand Master of Idaho ............ --·-······-····-···-····----··---·····---·-·····-----··-14,
208
Budget
Compariso n with Expenditu res 1953-54.---·-··-····--·-········-·······--·-·······-··-·······-·········---306
For 1954-55 ····---------···-·········-················--·--·-········------··-······--·······-·-·-········-··-·-··--·----145,
294
Business, Order of ····-··-·-··-·····------·····--------··---------·-··-·······-···-·····--··············---·-·····-·--·---21
, 246
By-Laws
Amendmen ts Approved ··-----········---------------------------------···-····-·····--·······-··-···········--------·--·
Amendme nts Reported --····------····-· ··--·-·-····-----·--------·· -·-··--···-·······-···--········-··--·--··-··-·-··--· 201
Report of Committee ············-···---··-···-------······-·-····----···-··--·--····-------·-····-··········--·---···-··. 44
200

c

f

l

California Freemason
Recommen dation of Grand Master..----·····-·-··-----------·-··-----------····-···-·-··--·-----··-··-----------75
Report of Correspon dence Committee·-------·--·-----------------·-------------------------·-----····-------- 196

448

INDEX
INDEX

449

Page

~:~~~~ ~i $i~~~~ecc::~ti~~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~~

California Masonic Memorial Temple
(See Memorial Temple)
Calling Up Procedures -·------------------·---------------··----·-------·----------·-----··································· 287
Centennial Lodge No. 729 Chartered ................................................................................ 140
Certification --·-···································---····-·--·--·--··············---·-----····---·····-····························
3
Changes of Meeting Place

~~:~fiti:?=~;~E+=~~:~:I=:~~~-~~ :~:+ ~:i~: 1~!
=::

Charters
Charters Issued -·-··-·--··--··-··---·-···-···-----------·---·--··-----··---··----········----···----·--·-------·--··. .. ...... 140

~:'.:1i~~ers!~laL~~~d:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~&~
R~sdoer~!~~~~sA~~h~~~=~ ~:::::::::::.·:.·:::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: M~
b~~~J ~~s1:r~ 0R~~~;;·;;;~~d~ti;;~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::: 1 ~J
Report of Committee.................. ----·---·--········-····-·--------

-··-··-·············--········---······-········--- 139
Report of Commitee on Jurisprudence......................................................
.................... 273
Christmas and Entertainment Fund
Audit -------·-···································································
321
Contributions for Covina .............................................................................................. 352
Contributions for Decoto .. ·········································································-················· 346
Columbia Temple

~!fe~:~~~ ~~ms;:r~~~t·i;;·;;··&;;;;;;itt~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~~

Committee Appointments
For Communication ........................................................................................................ 8
Committee Reports
(See Reports of Committees)
Committees, Special Assignments
(See Special Committees Assigned)
Consolidated Statements
Assets and Liabilities ...................................................................................................... 298
Cash and Securities ........................................................................................................ 33
Receipts and Disbursements ..........................................................................................
300
Constituent Lodges Listed.................................................................................................. 402
Contributions
Endowment Fund .................................................................................................... 105, 402
Entertainment Fund ................................................................................................346,
352
Special Funds .................................................................................................................. 357
Constitution Month Observanc e
Report of Committee ...................................................................................................... 198
Copyright Notice ·······-·-··············································-·················-·····································
5
Correspondence Committee

c~!~~~u:f~j~ :~-~ ~ ~:~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : i~~
Covina Special Fund

~~~:~ii;~;;;;~-~-·-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Courtesy Degrees
Amendment of Section 242 ..........................................................................................
Amendment of Section 243........................................................................•..................... ~~~
Credentials, Report of Committee on ................................................................................ 208

Page
D
Decisions of Grand Master
Reported in Message ...................................................................................................... 77
Report of Jurisprudence Committee...................................................... 264, 268, 270. 274
Decoto Residents Listed ···············································-··················································- 339
Decoto Special Fund
Audit ·······························································································--········--·········--····--·-·· 321
Contributions Listed ························--·····-···-·············--······-·-·····················-············-·····-·· 357
Degree Fees Tabulated ·······················································-·············-·····--························ 402

Di'~cl~dfb~efodges .................................................................................................... 402

Totals Reported ···················-··················································································--·--·· 37
DeMolay
Report of Committee on..................................................................................................
Reference by Committee on Segregation...................................................................... 260
117
Sponsoring of Chapters ···············································-·---------·--·········--·········-··-······.23. 280
Devotional Service ···-···································--·······-·······----··---·-----··--·····-···--·---··----····-·······
9
Directors of Club Houses
Report of ·········································-·-·······························--······--···----·--···········--·····.252. 256
Reference by Committee on Segregatio n..................
.................................................... 117
Dispensations
Approved .......................................................................................................................... 266
Issued ..............................................................................................................................
New Lodges Listed .......................................................................................................... 44
38
Distinguished Guests
Attendanc e Reported ................................................................................................ .. .... 14
Address by Felix A. Lenhart.......................................................................................... 15
Dues of Lodges Tabulated ................................................................................................ 402

E
Election of Officers ......................................................................................................
288
Endorsement of Charters
Recommended by Grand Secretary.............................................................................. 37
Report of By-Laws Committee...................................................................................... 203
Endowme nt Fund
(See also Endowment Month Observanc e)
Audit ................................................................................................................................ 327

g~~~~i~~ti;;~·1·Y·r:;;<l9~~·:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Jg~

Honor Roll ...................................................................................................................... 107
Memorial Contributions ···································-···············---····---··············-····················· 106
Securities Listed .............................................................................................................. 329
Endowme nt Month Observanc e
Contributions thru Lodges .................................................................................... 104, 402
Honor Roll ·······································-···············-··························-·······························--· 107
Memorial Contributions Listed ..................
.................................................................. 106
Report of Committee ·······························-····················-········-············-···········-········--···· 103
Summary of Contributions .......................................................................................... 104
Testament ary Gifts .......................................................................................................... 105
Entertainment Fund
(See Christmas and Entertainment Fund)
Estero Lodge No. 719 Constituted..................................................................................
65
Eulogies

:

ii~={~~FJk1f.~~:~~~=:~~~~~~::::::~:-::: :~

Extinct Lodges ................................................................................................................ ....

liJ
44

450

INDEX

II

INDEX

~

451

~-

F

Page
Fees ol Lodges Tabulated .................................................................................................. 402
Fidelity Bonds
Amendment of Section 47.............................................................................................. 271
Amendment of Sections 201, 202, 666, 667.................................................................. 272

~:~tln!eeco~~~~: k~~s;r~t~-~:::·:::·.:::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1:~

Flint Trust Fund Audit... ................................................................................................... 319

FoR~~o;~rc~~~~~tee on Charters.................................................................................. 141
Foreign Grand Lodges
List of Recognized Jurisdictions..............................................................................434-438
Report of Committee ...................................................................................................... 249
Standing Committee Authorized .................................................................................. 264
France, Grand Lodge of
Honorary Membership Granted .................................................................................. 14
Special Representative .................................................................................................... 14
Commemorative Volume Presented ............................................................................ 14
Freedom Foundation Award ···················--···--·································································· 123
Funds of Lodge
(See Investment of Funds)
Funeral Fund Audit ······-·-···········-----·····································-··········································· 321

G

Gardner. Edward, Honored as oldest P. M ..................................................................... 208
Geo. E. Tutt Lodge No. 722, Constituted...................................................................... 64
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Report of Committee ...................................................................................................... 249
Gist, James Black, P. G. M., Eulogy for .......................................................................... 232
Golden Empire Lodge
Dispensation and Institution ....................................................................................38, 66

th~rfe~~~taN~~y733n~---~-~-i~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~

Grand Chaplain
Devotional Service ......................................................................................................... 9
Grand Lecturer's Report .................................................................................................... 57
Grand Lodge Audit ............................................................................................................ 296
Grand Lodge Recognized
State of Israel ................................................................................................................ 249
Grand Lodges Represented ................................................................................................ 14
Grand Master
(See Harwell, Frank Jr.)

~:~i~~~~s 0k~p~~t~d··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

Report of Jurisprudence Committee...................................................... 264, 268-270, 274
Recommendations .............................................................. .............................................. 86
Report of Policy Committee ...........................................................................276, 277, 283
Grand Secretary
Report of ................................ .......................................................................................... 37

~:~dn~:~tb~f ~~~~7J:t~op__~~IIlIIl.i.'.t~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1j{

Grand Treasurer
Appointment of for Communication.............................................................................. 8
Report of ........................................................................................................................... 32
References by Segregation Committee ........................................................................ 117
Amendment of Section 42 .............................................................................................. 271
Grave of Past Grand Master Stevenson .................................................................... 17, 144
Grievances, Report of Committee .................................................................................... 210
Gross, Leonard
Memorial Fund Audit .................................................................................................. 319

~~

Page
H
Harwell, Frank Jr., Grand Master
Photograph ....................................................................................................... Frontispiece

~~~~~iit~n·t~---i~~-··e:·~~~~~i~~ti~;··.·~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::

J

Message ··································-······-··········································································- ..... 60
Hawaiian Visitation by P. G. M. Wood
Recommendation of Grand Master................................................................................ 69
Report of Policy Committee..................................................................................
283
Hillsborough Lodge

~~?!i1~Ji.~~7~~~~~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. :::.:~~: ~ :~

History Committee

~:do;ts~!~cii;9··c;;~~i-tt~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Hitt, Lester, Grand Master of Washington............................................................
Holiday Observance

14

Home Lodge No. 721 Constituted...........................................................................
Homes Statistics

65

~:~~~t~f1 J~~~~~:Je~~~·c;·~~iii~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2j~

R~~~p~Fi~~~l~~~~~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: .: : : ~~i

Huebner, Herbert A., Grand Oration .............................................................................. 167

I
Insignia Transferred to Grand Master.......................................................................
291
Inspectors Listed ................................................................
431
Installation of officers ........................................................ ::::::::::::::::::::::.::::.::::::::::::::.::::: 291
Insurance Program
~:p~~ ~: ~=~t~~:~~l~~-·::·················································································· 204
p
y ·················································································· 278
Investment Committee
Repot of .......................................................................................................................... 32
Reso ution on Sale of Securities Amended.................................................................. 274
Investment of Funds ...................................................................................... 27, 28, 274, 281
Israel. Grand Lodge of, Recognition changecL ............................................................... 249

J

Jurisprudence Committee Report
Amendment of Section 33......................................................................................

273

452

INDEX

INDEX

453

Page
Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges ................................................ 264
Decisions of Grand Master... ---------------------------·-·-····--·-··-··--------------------·····-··---264, 268-270

f=~~~;i~~~~£~~~~?~~'.~~~'.~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
Suspension of Master --------------------------------------------·--·-··----·---·------------·-----·--------------------- 274

K
Kennedy, Charles Thomas, Eulogy for .... ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 299
Kit Carson Lodge
Dispensation and Institution ··-·······-··-----------------·-----------··----··----------······---------------------- 39
Per Capita Payment waived.------------------------------····-------··--·······-·······---------------------·------- 147
Chartered No. 734 ---------------------------------------------------···----------------------------------··-------------· 140

L
La Canada Lodge
Dispensation and Institution ------------------·-----·---······--··-·····-----·--·-············----------------------

41

~ha~!f1~arfo~Y739n_t--~~~-~~-~~~--~~~---_-_-_·_·_·_·_-_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_~---.·-~--~---_·_·_·_-_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·:.·_·_·_~---_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_~---_-_-_-_--_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ \ ~i

Lakewood Lodge No. 728, constituted................... -----------··----·-----··---------------------------------- 65
Lapel Pins T ransfrrred _------------------------·------------------------ ______ -------------- --·-----··--------- .. __ ------- 291
Legal Action Against Publications..... -----------------------------------------------------------------------159, 161
Legislation Proposed
Amendment of Section 33
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.............. ---···--·--·----------------------------·------273
Amendment of Section 42
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.............. ----···----·--·-··--····------------------------271
Amendment of Section 47
Report of Jurisprudence Committee·------------------------·---------···--------------------------271
Amendment of Sections 78 and 151
Report of Lodge Financing Committee ........---···----------------------------------------------------- 183
Report of Jurisprudence Committee............................................ ----·------------------------- 265
Amendment of Section 97
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.......................................... ----···········-·------·270, 271
Amendment of Section 121
Report of Jurisprudence Committee............................................................ --------·----- 270
Amendment of Section 127
Recommendation of Publications Committee ........................... ------------------------------- 155

~=~~~ ~~ W~f~!;ut~!i~~~~'.'.'..~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l~l

Amendment of Section 210
Resolution Received ····--------------·······-------------··---------------------------------------------------------- 24
Amendment of Sections 242, 243
Report of Jurisprudence Committee·-------------------------------------------------------------------271, 272
California Freemason
Recommendation of Grand Master.·------------------------------------------------------------------------·· 75

~=~~~~ ~~ ~~Ifce;pc~:~~~e?.~~-~~'.'..~~:::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1~~

Charitable Foundation

~=~~~ti~f P~l~e;v(:~;.;~itt-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Charity Contributions
Resolution Received --······----------------------------------------------···········-················-----------····· ~g
Report of Policy Committee....................................................... -----···--·----------··------··
Charters Committee Enlarged
Recommendation of Grand Master.......................................................................... ~j
Report of Jurisprudence Committee......................................................................... .

2

2

Page
Date for 1955 Communication
Proposal Received ...................................................................................................... 31
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.......................................................................... 273
Degree Charts
Resolution Received ··················································································-···-----······· 18
Report of Ritual Committee...................................................................................... 247
De Molay Chapter Sponsorship
Resolution Received .................................................................................................. 23
Report of Policy Committee...................................................................................... 280
Flag Ceremony
Resolution Received ····························································································---··· 20
Report of Ritual Committee...................................................................................... 245
Formation of Charitable Foundation
Resolution Received ···················································································-····--··---··· 24
Report of Policy Committee ......................•............................................................... 282
Funeral Service Revision
Resolutions Received ............................................................................................ 19, 21
Report of Ritual Committee...................................................................................... 248
Investment of Life Membership Funds
Resolution Received ·····································································---··········-··········----- 28
Report of Policy Committee...................................................................................... 281
Investment of Lodge Funds
Resolution Received ············································································-···········----······ 27
Report of Policy Committee.•.................................................................................... 281
Legal Action Against Publications
Recommendation of Committee.................................................................................. 160
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.......................................................................... 161
Report of Policy Committee............................................... -----------··········-----------------· 161
Liability Insurance
Report of Special Committee.................................................................................... 206
Report of Policy Committee...................................................................................... 278
Los Angeles Masonic Hall
Recommendation of Grand Master............................................................................ 76
Report of Policy Committee...................................................................................... 276
Memorial Temple Assessments
Resolutions Received ··············-··················································-·-------------------28, 29, 30
Report of Policy Committee...................................................................................... 285
Memorial Temple Quota
Report of Committee ·············································································-·----··--·-········· 181
Report of Policy Committee...................................................................................... 275
Nominations for Trial Commission
Section 974 Repealed ·········································································-····--·-----··-······--· 274
Order of Business, Stated Meeting
Resolution Received ······································································--·----·--------------······ 21
Report of Ritual Committee...................................................................................... 246
Per Capita Tax Limitation
Resolution Received ··········································································--··-------·------······ 26
Report of Policy Committee...................................................................................... 281
Procedure for Memorial Temple Erection
Resolution Received ····································································-·-·······------------········ 27
Report of Policy Committee ....................................... ·········--···········-····----------·······-·· 284
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Resolution Received ····································································--··-······----···--·········· 31
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.................................... ------------------------------····--·· 264

RW!!~~~!unr:;~~~ved
·················································-----·-----···-·············--------------······· 21
Report of Ritual Committee........................................................................................ 248

Repeal of Section 775A
Resolution Received .................................................................................................. 18
Report of Jurisprudence Committee.......................................................................... 275

454

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Page
Masonic Information
Report of Committee .............................................................................................. -....... 166B
Report of Committee on Policy .............. ---······--············-·-·--·············--·---···-···············-·· 283
Masonic Temple Association Report........................................................... ---------······---- 262
McNeal, Roy, Grand Master of Oregon................................................................... .14, 139
Meeting Places Specified (Section 121) .......................................................................... 270
Members Contributions by Lodges.................................................................................. 402
Membership
Reported by Grand Secretary...................................................................................... 37
Tabulated by Lodges .................................................................. ·-·--····--------·-------·--······ 402
Memorial Service ......................................... ---················-·-········-··-····--············-----··-···--·--· 277
Memorial Temple
Assessments Proposed ---············--------····--···--···-··················--··-··--·--··--·-·····-·····--·······28, 285
Audit -·--·-----·-····-·-····--····----···------··---·····---·········------·······--······-----·-··-·-····--··-·-----·---··-·····---· 336
Corporation Created -----------······-----------···-·--···-···----········------·················-····--···············-·- 179
Financing Plan Extended ···-··········-···················------··········--···························--·····181, 275
Progress Reviewed -----··--····--·-·-········--·-·---·····----------·-······----······--··--·--·····----··---····------·· 177
Quota for Lodges .......................................................................... ·-·······-··--·····--····· 181, 275
Recommendations of Committee ·····--·······--------------·····--··············--·················----···----··· 181
Report of Committee···-·-··········-···----···---------------·-···········-·································--·········-- 176
Report of Committee on Policy....................................................................275, 284, 285
Resolutions Received .................................................................................. 27, 28, 29, 30
Review of Program ························-------------------------------------···························---··········· 286
Sale of Stock-25 Van Ness Ave ......................................................................... 181. 275
Messages of Congratulation ................................................................. -.......................... 57
Message of Grand Master
Acknowledgments .......................................................................................................... 86
Appointments .................................................................................................................. 63
California Freemason ------------·-··---------------··---·--···················--··-·-·····························-····· 75

Sale of Securities
- - 274
Standing Resolution Amended -----··--········-·-····------------····-···-··-·········---------···181
Recommendation of Memorial Temple Committee·--------------······-··------·-·
275
Report of Committee on PolicY-----------------·-----------------------------·--------------------- .
Secretaries Attendance, Grand Lodge
23
Resolution Received --------·-··-··---------····--····--·--···-·-··--····-·······--··-···-·-·-··-·----------277
Report of Policy Committee-----------------------------·····-------------------------------------------Stevenson Monument
17
Resolution Received ------------------------------------·---------------------------------------------144
Report of Finance Committee_·---------------------------·------------------------------------------Legislation Withdrawn
Presentation of Bible on Altar·------------------------·-----------------·------------------------------31
Prayer at Installation -------------------------····-·····························----·············-·····-···············-· 31
Opening Stated Meetings ···························-·-···············---······---······--····························· 31
Lemon Grove Lodge
Dispensation and Institution ·······-············································-·······-············-------40
Per Capita Payment waived .. ·--···---------------·---------------········-·················--····---··········---- 146
Chartered No. 736 ···············-··········--·-------·------------·----·-------···-------------·------·-------------------- 140
Liability Insurance
Report of Special Committee-------------------------·-------------------------------------------------------- ------- 204
Legislation Proposed -----------·---------------------------·-------------·-----·----------·------------------------206
Report of Policy Committee·--·--·------------------·-------------------------------·----·--------·------······---- 278
Life Membership Resolutions

~~~~~v~lc~ft~~~:~--~~:.~~~--~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

2U
List of Constituent Lodges.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------402
Lodge Financing
265
Amendment of Sections 78 and 151........................................... --.-----------------------183
Report of Committee -------------------··---·········--------------------------------------··-----····--·--------Lodge Funds
Contributions to Charities ---------------···------------··----------·------·-------------------------------------.26, 278
Investment of ·······---·······················-------······················-··-------····--·········--·-···············----27, 281
Lodges
Alphabetical List ··-··-···-·-··············-----··········--·············----·----··························---····--·------· 440
Charters Issued ························-·-----------------------·············--····----······-------------··············----- 140

g~~:~~=I~~~~-~--~-~~-~-~~~~--~~~_:.~~:::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

EEe~~frJn~~~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::~~: 4~

Los Angeles Masonic Hall
Recommendation of Grand Master.............. ---·························--················-········-----··-···

76

Lu~~~~~~c~ ~~~~y A~~~~'.~-~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Masonic Homes

M

~18Ril}E?_~~~~~~~~ ~:::~

+

1

g

Resolutions on Sale of Securities amended................................ _......................... ---·-··· 274

~~;!~;~css ~~p~f~!~dn~~--~-~-~-~-~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g

Masonic Homes Endowment Board

[~~~i~f1Y~~~:~~i i~: -.t\i ~ \: ~ : :~ ';: m

455

I
r

1
I

Committees ...................................................................................................................... 62
Conference of Grand Masters.................................................. -..·-···--·············--············· 67
Constitution of New Lodges................................................. ---···--···············-··--····--······· 64
Cornerstones ······················--···········--·······--············-··············-·········-···-·····-····················· 64
Decisions .......................................................................................................................... 77
Dedications ············································································--········-······························· 64
Hawaiian Islands ............................................................................................................ 69
Inspectors Appointed .................................................................................................... 64
Jurisprudence Committee Report .......................................... 264, 266, 268-270, 273, 274
Lodges Constituted ........................................................................................................ 64

~gh;~1:~t1rf:~~i~--8~"iC.~:::.·:::::::::.·:::::::::::.·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

~~~~~~::;~-~:-:~~~~~i::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~i~: 2~~

PubIi cations ············································--······················-····································- __ ···--·-·
Receptions .................................................................. ·-····················------·-·-··············-·····
Recommendations ................................................................................................ ---·-·-·-·--

71
66
86

~~~~~s~e~~~n··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

~~~r:~~!~~~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~
Visitations to other Grand Lodges..............................................................................

68

MiJ~~~~t~7c~~~ittee ··-----·-·---······-----·-········--·········--·············--·--······---·-·-···········---··-----·-· 209

Tabulation of Payments ··················································--···-········································ 360
Mineral King Lodge No. 720 Constituted.................... ·-·············--···-··························· 65
Monument for P. G. M. Stevenson............................................ _________ ....................... 17, IH

456

INDEX

INDEX

Paqe
Perine Endowment Fund Audit.. ...................................................................................... 319
Polar!! Lodge No. 730 Chartered ...................................................................................... 140
Polley and General Purposes Committee Reports
Aniendment of Section 127............................................................................................ 161
Attendance of Secretaries ............................................................................................ 277
California Freemason .................................................................................................... 277
Charitable Foundation .................................................................................................. 282
Concurrences with Jurisprudence Committee................................................................276

Page

MorningBlde Park Lodge

8!:~:~::~:~~ ~~~ti~~!!I~~~.. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~: ~

1
Morrison, Claude H., P. G. M., Eulogy for .................................................................... 230

N
Necrology, Report of Committee on .................................................................................. 227
New Lodge!

E:!!~:;Jrs~~~~~~~:.. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~~

~31;1f:,i~1;~~~::::~=~ :~~~:~~=-=~~:~:::=:~:~~-~ lfi

Investment of Lodge Funds.......................................................................................... 281

~,!:f~~~~~~~~:-=~::~==_::=~-~-:~:~::=:::~::: : jj

Neeb, Lewi!, Grand Master of Arlzona.................................................................... 14, 268
Nominations for Trial Co=.ission
Section 974 Repealed .................................................................................................... 274
Number of Re!idents at Homes........................................................................................ 356

Memorial Temple Committee Recommendations......................................................... 275
Memorial Temple Assessments .................................................................................... 285
Memorial Temple Procedure ........................................................................................ 284
Publications

0

Oakwood Lodge

~=~~~~ ~~ '6'ri:::Jt~a~t~·~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~

l
Legislation Recommended .............................................................................................. 155
Public Liability Insurance .............................................................................. 204, 206, 278
Public Schools Week Observance Report...................................................................... 118

g:~~:~=~~~ ~~~ti~~!~u-~~~..::·.:'.'.'.::::::::::'.'.'.::::::::'.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~'. t~

Oasis of Mara Lodge

~i~~:~~~l~~~~~~-:~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~: ~ ~

R
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Resolution for Standing Committee.............................................................................. 31
Committee Authorized .................................................................................................... 264
Grand Lodge of State of Israel.................................................................................... 249
Report of Special Committee........................................................................................ 249
Grand Lodge of Israel revoked.................................................................................... 249
List of Recognized Jurisdlctions .............................................................................. 434-438
Registration and Mlleage Payments ................................................................................ 360
Reid, Hugh, Grand Master of Virginia ...................................................................... 14, 135
Report of Committees
Balloting .......................................................................................................................... 88
Board of Control ............................................................................................................ 111

Officers Appointed ................................................................................................ 8, 289, 290
Officers Elected .................................................................................................................. 288
Officers of Grand Lodge

~ffe~~~meh.~~f ~th~~....~;i-~i~ti~~~....................................................................8, 289, 290
I
II g
J
................................................................................ 14
pnsta ed for 1954~55 year................................................................ 289, 291, Back cover

sr:~=n~r~~i!r~a~:1~'.~~~~-~

42~

.. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Ogden, Wllliam Brayton, P. G. M., Eulogy for............................................................ 234
Opening of 105th Communication.................................................................................... 7
0

w1~~~;~riJ:~~d Institution ....................................................................................41, 66

gh~;~~s! :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~

D~~pe:f;:to:aZo~~~~;dai~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~ ~~

Columbia Temple .......................................................................................................... 263
Constitution Month Observance .................................................................................. 198
Correspondence .............................................................................................................. 196
Credentials ...................................................................................................................... 208
De Molay ........................................................................................................................ 260
Finance ............................................................................................................................ 142
George \Vashington Masonic National Memorial... .................................................... 249
Grievances ........................................................................................................................ 21 O
History ............................................................................................................................ 136
Insurance ..... ..................................................................................................................... 204

Oration of Herbert A. Huebner, Grand Orator......................................................... :.... 167
Order of Business ........................................................................................................ 21, 246

p
Past Grand Masters

~~~~e~t s!~cci::i~~~~~!~~~ ............................................................................................ 42~

Pa~is~::te::_:~~:~:~~~ti~e;~;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~

I~~~~~~<l~~c~. ·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~

Per Capita Cost of Homes Operations............................................................................ 356
Per Capita Payments

Lodge Financing ............................................................................................................ 183

~::~~!~ ~~:i! E':<lo;;;;~~t. B~;;~c::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.. =~~'. fg~
0

~~~~~ f~~Ne~ i~<lg:s~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: n~
Per Capita Tax
0

~imijatiln Proposed .................................................................................................. 26, 281

et or 955 .................... ............................................................................................... 147

157

Masonic Homes Trustees ........ ..................................................................................... 90
Masonic Information .................................................................................................... 166B

i

-·~-~ii

i::i:~~[~~ly ~~-~:..~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

INDEX

INDEX

458

Page

Page
Policy and General Purposes .... -----------------------------·-·········-·····················-····--·····--·······- 275
Publications---------···-----------------------·--·------------------------------------···········-------·······-----···---------- 148
Public Schools Week Observance·---------------------------------------------·················----·-·······---- 118
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges... ---------------------------------·-----------··--------------··------ 249
Representatives Mileage --·-------------·-··--------------·--·············-----------·--------------------·······----- 209
Ritual -------------------·····----------------····-·-----------------·-··-··--·---·----------·--------·--··--·----------------·-------- 245
Segregation -----------------·--·----------------------------------------------------------------------·-·----------------------- 116
Sojourners ---------------------------------------------------------------------··---------------·-···---------·---·-·-------------- 182
Taxation ------------·--------------------------·-----------------------------·----·-·------------- ·------------------·--·-·------ 259
Report of Officers
Grand Lecturer ---------····----·------------------------------------------------------··----------------------····------------ 57
Grand Master -------·---·---------------·-----------------------------------------------------------------------···---·-···-· 60

g~:~~ ¥~::;~~~r-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Representatives of Lodges
8
Attendance reported ---·--------·------------·------------------·----·--------------·----------------------·
Roster of Attendance ------------·-----------------------------·--------------------------------------------- ···---------- 360
Representatives Mileage
209
360
Reserve for Additions and Replacements
321
357
Reserve Fund Audits

~~b~I~t~!n~f P~~e~~~t~·-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::

t~:~b~ti~~-~--Li~-t~C:i"·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ___ ::··:::::::· ::.:::::::::_:··- -

~~~~~~r~~t~lif~~~:!e~~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: j~~

Residents at Homes

~~fJ~c~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ·: : : : t!~

Residents Deposits Audit ---------·----------------------------------------------·--···-·-····--·--···-·--------··--------- 320

Re(s~~i~1~~ t~~~l~~~nr··---------------------------------------------·-···------------ --------------------·-··-·-·------ 17
Returns of 1954 Audited ... --------·----·------------------------·-------------·------··----------------·-··--····-····----- 295
Revenue of Grand Lodge
Section 97 amended ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------270, 271
Ritual
~:~~!~:of fFkunc:;e~e r:1ce _________________________________________________________________________ ... 19. 21. 248

0

Report of Grana Lecturer.:'.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~?.:
Roll Cail --------------------------·---------------------------------------------------·-------····--···-·· -----------------·--- _____

2

~~

7

s

~:l~~n~:~::se --~~:--~-~-~--~~-~~'.~-~'.~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::24: 2~

San Juan Lodge

g~:r~~::JiN~~7~l~~~'.'.~_t_i_~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~: 1~

San Lorenzo Valley Lodge No. 718 Constituted.. -------------------------------------------------------- 64
San Ramon Valley Lodge No. 724 Constituted.---------------------------------------------------··------ 64

x~~~d!~~itoi::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::2J: ~~~
~~~~~:::i:;,
Securities Held

~~:i~~~!~~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~f!

459

Segregation Committee on
Appointment of --··········------------·---·--------------------------·---------------·----------·----------------------------- 36
Report of -----------·-----------------·-----------------------------------·········---·········---·······-····-···-····-·······--·· 116
Sessions of Communication
Monday Morning ---········-·······-··············--·-····-·-······----------------------·---------------------------------- 7

I~~~:·:: !!~-!'.!! :::::::=::::::!: i

Calling Up Procedures .... ------------------------··---------------------------------------------------------------------- 287
Shippee, Robert Fletcher, Eulogy for.--------------------------.. ------------------------------------------------- 228
Sojourners
Report of Committee...... -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·------ 182
Special Appendix -------------------------------------------------------------------------·-------------------------------------- 293
Special Committees Assigned
Funeral Ceremony Revision ... ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 248
Investigation under Decision No. 1L-------------------------------------·-------·---------------------------- 268
270
---------------------------No. 20...... ----------------------------------------under Decision
Investigation
__________ 276
_________________________________________
HaJL _________________________________________
Angeles Masonic
Los
Review of Section No. 210.. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 266
Special Communications Reported.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 64
Special Funds Audited
Covina ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 320
Decoto ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 321
~fe~n:~:~~~J~at~~a&£~~1{J~(t°tii."-----------------------------------------------------·--------------------23, 280

Monument for ------------------------------------------- -------------------------··---------------------· ·-----·-........ 17, 144
Students Loan and Scholarship Fund
Audit -------------------------------------------------------------·----------------------·----·-------------------------------------- 320
Supreme Court Justice Received........ -------------------------------------···---------------------------------------- 14
Suspension of a Master continued .... -----------------------------------------------------------------·-·------------ 274

T
Taxation
Report of Committee·-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------··--·------------- 259
Reference by Segregation Committee.----------·-------------------------------------------------------------- 117
Tax Exemption
(See Charitable Foundation)
Tellers Appointed ---------------------------------------·-------------------------·--------------·----------------------------- 288
Title Page ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----------------------------------- 5
Trial Procedure
Repeal of Section 974.............. ----------- ----------·----------------------------------------------------------------- 27 4
Trial Records
Grievance Committee Report... .... --------------------------------------------------------------------·------------ 210
Reported by Grand Secretary.... -----------------------------------------------------------------···---------------- 46
Trustees of Masonic Homes
Appointed ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-··---------·------------------ 290
Listed ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---------------------- 90
Annual Report ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 90
Two Rivers Lodge No. 731 Chartered.... -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 140
Tyre Lodge

g~~:~=~~~ ~~~tl~~!~u-~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~'. I~

u

8~~lshe1driB~~1n~~s&i;: fg153~_-_:·:.::~_::·.:::·_-_-_-_:·.:::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
3

460

INDEX

Page
Unfinished Business from 1954
Forest Lodge No. 66.............------···-··--···----····--·-·--··--·····--··-··-···-······-···-·---------------- 141
Funeral Ceremony Revision·-·----·--·--·-·-·----···----·-------··-------··········-···--·····--·-·--···---·--·-····· 248
Investigatio n under Decision No. 1 L ..---·--··---··------·--···---········--·--···--·--·-·--·-·------·-····-- 269
Investigatio n under Decision No. 20--------------------··-----·--···---····--···---····---···----·-······---·-- 270
Los Angeles Masonic Hall.-·---·------··------·-······--·---------·--------------------------·------------··········· 276
Review of Section 210................... ----------------------·····----------------------------------·······-····-·-····· 266
Suspension of Master-Dec ision No. 21...................................................................... 274

v

Verdugo Hills Lodge No. 727, Constituted......----------------·········----··-·-------····-····-··..........
Veteran Buttons Presentecl ...... --------------··---·--·--------·----···-----·-··-···------·--····-----------·····----·

w

65
49

Wadleigh Fund AudiL.---··············-····--·-----···--------··------··-·-····-···--···---···········--···-····· ......... 320
Wilson, Hugh, Grand Master of Nevada----······-·············--··------······-····-·-·--·····-····-··· .14, 252
Wilson, Lloyd E.
Report of Grand Secretary.--------·---------·------·--------------·----------------------------·--··-----·-·····--·-- 37
Honorary Membership Presented, France ...... --------------·--···················-························· 14
Medal of Distinction Received, IsraeL.·-----------------·--------··----------·-···-·-----·············---·-· 17
Distinguishe d Service Medal Received, Massachusetts............................................ 17
Wood, Leslie E., P. G. M.
Visitation to Hawaiian Islands ...... -------------------·----------------·······-·····---------··-··----·········69, 283

y
Yucaipa Lodge No. 726 Constituted................................................................................

65

