GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PHILIP NORBOURNE MYERS
GRA N D MASTER

PHIL N. MYERS
Grand Ma ster
October 3, 1958 - October 2. 1959

Philip N. Myers, Grand Master of Masons in California for the
term ending October 2, 1959, has endeared himself to the craft
throughout California and Hawaii by his kind and fraternal approach
to all problems and by his unremitting zeal and devotion in the discharge of his duties, not only as Grand Master but also in his previous
years of service to Masonry.
He is a humble and a gentle man, but his humbleness should not
deceive those who might seek to move him from a position which he is
convinced is right. He is also a member of that group of which our
country is justly proud, "a self made man."
He was born in Hemet. California, on January 12, 1897, the son of
Philip Norbourne Myers, Sr. and Alma Gray Newman Myers. H is
father was associated with land development projects in Kern and
Riverside counties. Both his parents are now deceased. H e has one
living brother, Harvey H . Myers, a member of Orange Grove Lodge. at
Orange. California.
In 1909 the family moved to Los Angeles. Our Grand Master attended grade school at 24th Street and Western Avenue, where the
principal was the sister of Past Grand Master James A. Foshay, and
in 1912 entered Los Angeles High School. In those days Southern
California was not enjoying its present high level of prosperity, and
financial conditions forced him to leave school and seek gainful employment. H owever, he continued to pursue an education in night school
and correspondence courses, specializing in accounting and management with a diligence that is manifested by his success in later life.
Prior to the entry of the United States into World War I, he was
employed for a time by the Southern Pacific C ompany in a nd around
Los Angeles in several capacities. Following this, he entered the Army,
and the end of the war found him in the O fficers Training School at
Camp Pike in Arkansas.
After employment in an accounting a nd ma nagement capacity with
several firms , including the Los Angeles Motor Transit Company and
the Fresno branch of Mack Trucks, he entered the service of The
Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway in 1923 and remained with
it for six years, rising from accountant to system traveling accounta nt
and then to senior traveling accountant. Most of this service was in
California but for a short period he was in Chicago.
The 1929 depression found him with the credit department of International Harvester Company at Los Angeles, from which position he
was called, on June 16. 1930, to become Auditor for the McCloud River
Railroad Company in northern California .
The McCloud River Ra ilroad Company is a short line railroad, its
chief business being the servicing of the lumber industry in that heavily

2

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

wooded and mountaino us section of the State. Our Grand Master was
with this railroad continuou sly from 1930 until April. 1952, serving
successively as Auditor, Assistant Superinte ndent. General Manager,
Treasurer , Vice-Pres ident and President.
His ability and efficiency in the manageme nt of the McCloud River
Railroad attracted wide spread attention and resulted in his being called,
on April l, 1952, to serve as President of Trona Railway Company ,
which position he still holds.
The Trona Railway has headquart ers at Los Angeles and operations
at Trona, in the desert area of Kern and San Bernardin o Counties. It,
also, is a short line railroad, a common carrier wholly owned by American Potash and Chemical Corporati on, and carries chemical products
from Trona and Westend (both on Searles Dry Lake) to a connection
with the interconti nental railroad system. Since assuming this position,
our Grand Master has been a resident of Los Angeles, in the Brentwoo d
area.
From 1943 to 1958 he served as a director of the American Short
Line Railroad Association, composed of some 275 industrial and short
ine common carrier railroads. From 1954 to 1958 he was ~ts VicePresident for the Pacific Region. He declined re-election prior to his
installatio n as Grand Master, but has now been again elected to its
Board of Directors.
Married to Anne Fletcher Thorp on January 15, 1927, he and his
wife brought to the union children of previous marriages : Phyllis Myers
Morgan, now living in McCioud where her husband, Allyn K. Morgan,
is a member of McC!oud Lodge; Mary Ellen Thorp Workman , who
resides in Monrovia with her children and husband, George T. Workman, a member of Monrovia Lodge; and Robert Grant Thorp, also a
member of Mc Cloud Lodge, but now living in Sacramen to with his
wife and child.
Our Grand Master was raised in McCloud Lodge on January 23,
1945, served as Senior Deacon and Senior Warden, and was its Master
in 1947.
He was Grand Standard Bearer of the Grand Lodge in 1948, appointed to the Pay of Members Committe e in 1949 and a member of
the Finance Committe e from 1950 to 1955. He was elected Junior Grand
Warden in 1955, Senior Grand Warden in 1956. Deputy Grand
Master in 1957 and Grand Master in 1958.
He is a member of Cyrus Chapter No. 15, Royal Arch Masons.
Yreka; Los Angeles Command ery No. 9. K. T., Los Angeles; the Los
Angeles Bodies of the Scottish Rite; St. Gabriel Conclave No. 11, Red
Cross of Constanti ne; AI Malaikah Shrine; and the McCloud Chapter
of the Order of the Eastern Star. He is also a member of the Jonathan
Club in Los Angeles and of the Los Angeles Athletic Club.

I, LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of the M:.w:. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California , do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedin gs of that body at its one-hundr ed tenth
Annual Communic ation, commenced at the city of San Francisco , on
Monday, the 28th day of Septembe r, A. L. 5959, and terminated on
Friday. the 2nd day of October. A. L. 5959.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M. ·. W. •. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary. this second day of November, in the year of Light, .five
thousand nine hundred and fiftynine.

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M:.W:.GRAND LODGE
of

1J1ree auh Arrepteh itunnun
OP THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS
1lOTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE
• CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 A.O. 1959, A.L. 5959
AND TERMINATING ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2 A.O. 1959. A.L. 5959
Copyri9ht 1959 by Grand Lod9e F. & A. 1.4. of Califo rnia
Printed in the United Stele• of America . All ri9hts in this book e re reserved.
No pert thereof may be reproduced in any manner whatsoever without written
permission from the Grand Lod9e of California , except thot quotations moy
be embodied in reviews by such other Grand Jurisdictions es have been
reco9 nized officially by this Grond lodge. for information address G rand
Secretary, 1111 California Street, San Francisco 8, California.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7

ONE HUNDRED TENTH
ANNUAL COMMUNICAT ION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted M asons
of the State of California commenced its One Hundred Tenth Ann ual
Communication in the C alifornia Masonic Memorial T emple on September 28th . A.L. 5959. at I 0 :00 a.m.
Roll Call disclosed the presence of the following:

OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LoDGE
M.'.W. ' .PHIL N. MYERS . ... ................... ..................... ..........Grand M aster

R. ·.w.·.JoE L. SHELL ................................. ...........Deputy Grand M aster
R.·.w.·.ALFRED F. BRESLAUER............. ...............Senior Grand Warden
R.'.W. '.Guv B. MIZE ................................. .......... .Junior Grand Warden
V .·.w.·.EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M ...............................Grand Treasurer
v.·.w. '.LLOYD E. WILSON, P .G.M ....................... .......Grand Secretary
v.·.w. .ELBERT w. DAVIS ................................. ....... ........ Grand Lecturer
w:.HENRY c. C L AUSEN. P.G.M ............................ .Judge Advocate
V. · .REVEREND EDWARD D . KoHLSTEDT............... ... Grand Chaplain
W.'.CLARE B. CAMPBELL.. ..................... ...Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.RALPH M. FooTE ................................ Assistant Grand Lecturer
w : . ARTHUR J . KAH N ................................ Assistant Grand Lecturer
w:.RAYMOND G . TAYLOR ........................Assistant Grand Lecturer
w : .DoNALD G. CAMPBELL.. . ............ ....... Assistant Grand Lecturer
w.· .W. BEN SORRELLS .................... ..........Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.THEODORE MERIAM ............. ........................... ...... ..Grand Orator
W . ·.PAUL A. PFLUEGER..................... ..... Assistant Grand Treasurer
W. ·.HENRY D. OLIPHANT........................Assistant Grand Secretary
W.'.BYRON C. M oRTON ................................. .......... . . .Grand Marshal
w. · .EvERETT s. TODD ................................. ...Grand Standard Bearer
W.'.CHARLES S. HoGAN .................... ................ Grand S word Bearer
w:.FREDERICK H. CHAPMAN ........... ................... Grand Bible Bearer
W . ' .FRED F. ELLIOTI .. .............. ........ ................Senior Grand Deacon
W . '.WrLLIAM D . KNIGHT................................ . .Junior Grand D eacon
w . · .EARL w. Buss .................... ....................Senior Grand Steward
W.'.OGDEN D. PINKERTON ..............................Junior Grand Steward
W.'.WILLIAM H. ADAMS. ...................... ................. Grand Pursuivant
W .'.HAROLD MuELLER................................ .............. Grand Organist
W.'.DAVID WRIGHT ................................. ......... ................Grand Tiler
0

8

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS

DEVOTIONAL SERVICES

M:.w:.CHARLEs ALBERT ADAMs
M:.W.'.CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
M. '.W:.LEON 0. WHITSELL
M:.W.'.LLOYD E. WILSON
M.".W:.LEsuE E. WooD
M:.w:.JottN R. MooRE
M:.W.".CiiESTER H. WARLOW
M.".
.EDWARD H. SIEMS
M.'.W.".ELLSWORTH MEYER
M.' .W.".ARTHUR PAULSEN
M:.w:.Louis c DRAPEAU
M.".W.'.ARTHUR M. WARREN
M.".W.".FRANK HARWELL, JR.
M.".W.".HENRY
CLAUSEN
M.".W.".EDGAR v. STEWART, JR.
M:.w:.L. HAROLD ANDERsoN
M.".W.".LEO E. ANDERSON

"SOCIAL AND SPIRITUAL STABILITY"

w:

c.

One thousand two hundred sixty-6.ve officers and representatives
from 686 chartered Lodges and 5 Lodges under dispensation. 452 Past
Masters, and 17 distinguished guests from other jurisdictions were reported as present, and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened
in ample form, following which the Flag of our Country was received.

9

DR. EDWARD D. KoHLSTEDT, Grand Chaplain

Most Worshipful Grand Master and Members of Grand Lodge:
Permit me, first of all, to voice my appreciation of the privilege of
serving as your Grand Chaplain during the past Masonic year. Developments that led to this appointment seem to have been providential.
Saturday evening. March 15, 1958, I served as substitute Chaplain
at the Installation Ceremony of our newly organized El Camino Research Lodge in Redwood City. The then Deputy Grand Master Phil
N. Myers, whom I met for the first time, conducted that ceremony as a
substitute for Grand Master Leo E. Anderson, who was unable to
be present.
The next morning, after taking Deputy Grand Master Phil N. Myers
to the San Francisco International Airport, I had a telephone call from
Worshipful Master Thelo A. Perrott of Josiah W. Roller Lodge No.
761, who inquired: "Brother Ed, would you be interested in an appointment as Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge of Freemasons in
California?"
Speechless with surprise for a few moments, I finally replied: "Being
a Mason, who wouldn't be interested in such a challenging service opportunity. However, it is very unlikely that a man of my age will be
entrusted with that responsibility."
My reaction was prompted by a couplet at the close of a letter from
an eighty-two-year-old lady, a long time friend, who shared this bit of
octogenarian philosophy:
"I am fully aware that my youth has been spent.
My get-and-go has got up and went.
But I really don't mind when I think, with a grin,
Of all the grand places my get-up has been."
Due to the .r ecommendations of Past Grand Master L. Harold
Anderson, Past Master of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, and many Masonic
brethren, I was thrilled by this message from Deputy Grand Master
Phil N. Myers on August 25, 1958: "This will confirm that I have
included you in my list of appointive officers for 1958-59 as Grand
Chaplain."
It has been a year of life-enriching activities and associations with
as fine a group of Grand Lodge Officers, Inspectors, Past Masters and
Masters as any one could choose for personal fellowship and cooperative service. To our Most Worshipful Grand Master, his administrative and appolntive officers, I am immeasurably indebted for their
brotherly consideration, personal courtesies and wholehearted friend-

10

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ship. Despite calendar limitations that are about to alter our official
relations, treasured memories remain to cheer our hearts.

"God has not promised skies always blue.
Flower-strewn pathways all our lives through;
God has not promised sun without rain,
Joy without sorrow, peace without pain.

A strenuous schedule has made the going a bit rough, at times. A
few bumps and bruises had to be reckoned with, en route, but none
of us became involved in a dilemma like that portrayed by Columnist
Jerome Beatty in the March I, 1958 issue of Saturday Review. He
didn't say whether it was after a Cornerstone or Dedication Ceremony,
but vouches for this letter from a Barbados, Island of Antilles bricklayer to the firm for which he works:
"Respected Sir: When I got to the building, I found the hurricane
had knoc_ked some bri~ks off the top. I rigged up a beam at the top
of the bu1ldmg and hoisted up a couple barrels of bricks. After I fixed
the building, there was a lot of bricks left. I hoisted up an empty
barrel and secured the line at the bottom. Then I went up and filled
the empty barrel with the extra bricks, and went to the bottom to
cast off the line.
"Unfortunately, the barrel of bricks was heavier than I a nd, before
knew what was happening, the barrel started down and jerked me
off the ground. I decided to hang on and, half way up, met the barrel
coming down and got a severe blow on the shoulder. I continued
to the top, banging my head against the beam and getting my fingers
jammed in the pulley.
. " When the barrel hit the ground its bottom burst, spilling out the
b:1cks. Now I was heavier than the barrel. so started down again at
high speed. Half way down , I met the barrel coming up and received
severe injuries to my shins. When I hit the ground, I landed on the
bricks, getting painful cuts from their sharp edges. At this point, I
must have lost my presence of mind, because I let go of the line, so
the barrel came down again, giving me another heavy blow on the
head and putting me in the hospital. I respectfully request sick leave."
. Your appointive officers endorse the validity of calendar limitations
m an organization like Freemasonry. but none of them is asking "sick
leave."

S ocial and spiritual stability is a desirable state of mind and heart.
It is within the realm of practical possibilities. Among our Old Testa~ent pr~phets. no name has greater significance than Isaiah. Despite
his pressmg personal and political problems, Isaiah's faith, observation
and experience taught him the secret of social and spiritual stability.
Such an achiev_ement ena?,led a mere man to talk to Almighty God in
these confidential terms: Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose
mind is staid on Thee : because he trusteth in Thee." He had learned
that:

11

"But God has promised strength for the day.
Rest from the labor, light for the way,
Grace for the trials, help from above:
Unfailing sympathy, undying love."
-ANNIE JOHNSON FLINT

Modern social and spiritual statesmen, who have earned the right
to be heard and heeded, remind us that
"We are living. we are dwelling
In a grand and awful time;
In an age on ages telling:
To be living is sublime."

The signs of our times are pregnant with possibilities of weal
or woe for mankind. For the first time 1n human history, an aerial trail
has been blazed from the earth to the moon, American and Russian
satellites orbit our planet, even the sun, and transmit scientific information from regions beyond man's telescopic vision. Space ships.
interplanetary travel at incredible speeds, dreams that are bound to
become realities, are now familiar topics of conversation and conjecture.
It took the ship that brought my father from Northern Germany to
the United States of America six weeks to cross the Atlantic Ocean.
Lockheed Aire.r aft's June 17, 1959 news release informs us that, by
1965, man will be able to shrink this ensmalling world to the size of a
breakfast table. Using our existing airports, 2200-mile-an-hour jet
transports will pick up passengers, after a late breakfast in London,
at 11 a.m., British time; bring them to New York City by 9 :30 a .m ..
Eastern time; and land them in Los Angeles for another breakfast at
7: 45 a.m., Pacific time.
Another total eclipse of the sun, visible throughout this area in
case of a clear day, has been scheduled for October 26, 2151. You
may not be interested in that event; for, by that time the youngest
person here should be engaged io celestial activities. But all of us
ought to be interested in the fact that such a prediction is not a guess,
but a guarantee; that its fulfillment is an absolute certainty. Why?
God's vast physical universe of suns, moons, stars and solar systems, the very thought of which staggers one's imagination, is governed
by such exact. changeless laws that astronomers and scientists are able

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

to compute and predict the advent of this and other heavenly phenome na
many years in advance, even to the moment of their actual occurren ce.
Scientific achievements can do much toward the enrichme nt or impoverish ment of life; the help or hurt of humanity ; the lengthen ing or
shortenin g of man's earthly span; the blessing or cursing of succeedi ng
generatio ns. Yet, despite its amazing powers and possibilities, science
has limitatio ns: it Jacks the facilities to evaluate factors in the realm of
religion and life. Science alone isn't equipped to ensure a realizatio n of
man's basic need: social and spiritual stability. Scientific areas of activity
and research are admitted ly mathema tical. not moral; material, not
spiritual ; matters of the head, rather than of the heart.
But there is no conflict between true science and real religion. The
antagoni sms that sometimes clutter their relations are created by pseudoscientist s and opiniona ted theologia ns, who take themselves too seriously. Both could render a more construc tive service to mankind by stressing
basic beliefs in realities that matter most, instead of majoring in unwarranted assumpti ons and theologic al technicalities. In recent years. organized religion has made substant ial strides toward cooperat ion and
unity, but we still have a long way to go in that direction .
The late Dr. Wilfred Grenfell , famous medical missiona ry to the
poverty stricken fishing communities of Labrado r and Newfoun dland,
once advertise d for an artificial limb to substitut e a leg lost by one of
his amputee s. The Methodi st widow of a Baptist husband , who had been
similarly afflicted, saw the advertise ment and sent her deceased husband's artificial limb to Doctor Grenfell . who reported as follows:
' Tm an Episcopa lian. I advertise in a Congreg ational periodical for
an artificial limb. A Methodi st woman sends me a Baptist leg, which I
fit to the body of a Catholic fisherman. who now has a truly interdeno minational understa nding." A sequel to this factual story speaks for itself.
Address ing an interdeno mination al gatherin g in a large Detroit
church on "Cooper ation and Organiza tional Unity," I used the Grenfell
experien ce as an illustrati on. An ardent Baptist sister in the audience
wrote me a note on a collection envelope and placed it on the plate, in
lieu of an offering. At the close of the service, the usher handed me· her
note, and this is what she said: "But you'll have to admit, Sir, that the
Baptists were the only ones who had a leg to stand on."
Freemas onry is a fraternal brotherh ood. not a religious organiza tion. Our craft and the church, whateve r its name or formal expressio n
of faith, are neither competit ors of nor substitut es for each other.
Masonic teaching s are intersper sed with biblical tenets, their moral
implications and spiritual significance. but we are content to stress these
two basic concepts : the fact of God, Supreme Architec t of the Universe; and the authority of the Holy Bible as our guide for faith and
practice in the laborato ry of life.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

13

The challenge of our times prompts us to pray with Josiah G.
Holland:
"God give us men! A time like this demands
Strong minds. great hearts. true faith. steady hands :
Men whom the lust of office does not kill;
Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy;
Men who possess opinions and a will;
Men who have honor; who will not lie;
Men who can stand before the demagog ue
And damn his ftattering s without winking:
Tall men, sun-crow ned. who live above the fog
In public duty and private thinking ."
Our current internati onal situation . with its unholy rivalries and
terrible tensions. is the most disturbin g social and spiritual problem
humanity has ever known. Whe.n we are realistic about the alarming
status of our twentieth century world, with so many areas afflicted by
doubt, dismay and despair; when we face the fact that, in certain
countries . "Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happine ss" is as meaning less an objective to their dictatori al overlord s as it was in the bloody
arena of ancient Rome's Coliseum . it is immeasu rably heartening to
remembe r that
God's Spiritual Universe is governed by as exact and changeless
laws as those that govern God's Physical Universe . Moral and spiritual
values are real and permane nt. Scriptur al assuranc es underHir d a
functiona l faith in eternal verities. God's limitless love and matchles s
mercy are unalterab le. Biblical steps toward the ach ieve ment of social
and spiritual stability are as clearly defined as they ever were: an
inquiring . receptive mind: a penitent, purposef ul heart; and a realistic.
functiona l faith. The Bible says: "Withou t faith it is impossible to
please God : He that cometh to God must believe that God is, and that
He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." (Hebrew s I I: 6)
The superstructure of social and spiritual stability is undergir ded by
three basic concepts that merit construc tive consider ation and action:
First-F aith in the fact of God. Architec t of the Universe , Author
of all Good. Giver of all Mercy. Creator. Enricher and Preserve r of
Life. The Psalmist tells us : "The fool hath said in his heart. there is
no God;" also. he reminds us that "The heavens declare the glory of
God. and the firmament showeth His handiwo rk." (Psalms 53: I and
19 : J ) We believe with N. K. Richards on that

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"There is a God! The towering mountains cry:
Jehovah's name is blazoned on the sky;
The dancing streamlet and the golden grain,
The lightening gleam, the thunder and the rain,
The dewdrop on the lily's breast,
The tender leaf. by every breeze caressed,
The shell. whose pearly bosom ocean laves,
The seaweed, bowing to a troop of waves;
The glow of Venus, and the glare of Mars,
The tranquil beauty of the lesser stars;
The eagle, soaring in majestic flight.
The morning, bursting from the clouds of night;
The child's fond prattle and the mother's prayer.
Angelic voices. floating on the air;
Mind, heart and soul. the ever restless breath,
And all the myriad mysteries of death.
There is a God! The dying believer's hand.
Pale with disease, points to a better land,
And ere his body mingles with the sod,
He. sweetly smiling. faintly murmurs: 'God.'"
In the First Degree of Blue Lodge Masonry. you were taught
never to mention the name of the Deity, except "with that awe and
reverence which are due from the creature to his Creator."
Second-Faith in the authenticity and authority of the Holy Bible
is a crucial concept, treasured by our Masonic Fraternity as a fundamental factor in the philosophy of life. In the language of that same
Blue Lodge First Degree Charge. you were taught to regard the Holy
Bible as ''the volume of the Sacred Law; as the Great Light of your
profession; to consider it as the unerring standard of truth and justice;
and to regulate your actions by the divine precepts it contains."
Authored over a period of approximately 1500 years by nearly
forty different writers, schooled and unschooled. some of whom were
dead when others wrote, while still others of them had not yet been
born, the unity of basic biblical teachings warrants the prevalent conviction that those authors must have been inspired by the Master Mind
of the Universe; for, as John Dryden so well said:
"Whence but from heaven could men unskilled in arts,
In several ages born, in several parts,
Weave such agreeing truths; or how, or why
Should all conspire to cheat us with a lie?
Unasked their pains, ungrateful their advice,
Starving their gain, and martyrdom their price."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

15

In 1560, the invention of printing was featured by the production
of a Holy Bible, the first book printed from movable type. Since that
historic date, our Holy Bible has maintained its place of preeminence as
the best seller among the millions of books produced by the printing
press. It is still published in more languages and dialects, read and
studied by more people of all ages, throughout the world. than any
other book. Percy Dearmer penned this factual appraisal:
"Book of Books. our people's strength,
Statesman's, teacher's, hero's treasure,
Bringing freedom, spreading truth,
Shedding light that none can measure:
Wisdom comes to those that know thee;
All the best we have, we owe thee."
Third-A realistic appreciation of the idealism taught and practiced
by the Carpenter of Nazareth. Among our great humanitarian, social
and spiritual leaders of the past, whose memory we revere, he perfected a body of idealistic teaching that has never been surpassed or
equaled. Besides . he demonstrated the validity of his idealism in the
laboratory of life. His historic ministry to mankind personalized
selfless service.
When the emissaries of John the Baptist, one of Freemasonry's
Patron Saints, sought to learn his identity and the purpose of his mission,
Jesus didn't confuse them with theological technicalities, but stressed
matters of immediate moment. saying: "Go your way and tell John what
things ye have seen and heard : how the blind see, the lame wal k, the
lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear. and to the poor the gospel of good
news is being preached." (Luke 7: 22).
Erudite definitions of religion confuse the average man. He is bothered by Dr. Henry Slosson's statement that "Religion is the perpetual
realization of God, the spiritualization of daily life." However, he has
no difficulty in understanding what Saint James meant, when he wrote :
"Pure religion and undefiled before God, the Father, is this: To visit the
fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.'' (Jam es 1 :27).
Dr. Albert Schweitzer , Nobel Prize-winning humanitarian, philosopher and physician, the story of whose dedicated activities in behalf of
equatorial Africa's underprivileged communities has recently been publicized, is this twentieth century's most convincing illustration of the
worthwhileness of such selfless service, stressed in the ritual of our
Masonic Hall Dedication Ceremony: "Enable us to prove to mankind
by our actions that our lives are sincerely dedicated to Thee, and to the
relief and wellbeing of our fellow creatures."
A reasonably contented, measurably productive life is the rightful

16

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

goal of every normal man. Goethe's nine prerequisites for the achievement ~! social and spiritual stability merit prayerful pondering on our
part: Health enough to make work a pleasure; wealth enough to support your needs; strength enough to battle with difficulties and overcome
them; grace enough to confess your sins and forsake them; patience
enough to toil until some good is accomplished; charity enough to see
some good in your neighbor; love enough to move you to be useful, and
helpful to others; faith enough to make real the things of God; and
hope enough to remove all anxieties concerning the future."

Benediction: "Now unto Him that is able to keep you from falling,
and to. pr~sent you faultless before the presence of His Glory with
exceedmg )Oy, to the only wise God, our Saviour, be glory and majesty,
dominion and power. both now and ever." (Jude 24-25).
DR. EDWARD D. KoHLSTEDT, Grand Chaplain.

APPOINTMENTS
The Grand Master noted the absence of Past Grand Master Lawler
and announced the appointment of William R. Hervey, Jr. to fill that
vacancy on the Committee on Jurisprudence during this Communication. The Grand Master also announced the appointment of Past Grand
Master Leo E. Anderson to fill the vacancy on the same Committee
created by the death of Brother John W. Shenk.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of Past Grand
Masters Arthur M. Warren and Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. to serve on the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes during this Communication because of the absence of Augustus H. Allen and Richard H.
Chamberlain.
The Grand Master also designated Brothers Jesse Few and William
T. Corbusier to assist the Committee on Credentials.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

17

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
PHI L N. MYERS, Grand Master
Brethren:
The past year has been one of great activity on the part of the
Grand Master and the Grand Lodge officers. A very heavy schedule
has been followed by all of us in conducting ceremonies and attending
receptions at many points in the jurisdiction. A full lis ting of the various
functions is contained in the statistical appendix to this report. which
will appear in the printed copies and in the Proceedings.
Grand Lodge w as opened in special communication on thirty-one
different occasions : F or constitution ceremonies for eleven new lodges,
dedication ceremonies for eleven new Masonic Temples, and for cornerstone ceremonies for four public schools, three public buildings, and
three Masonic buildings. In addition to the school cornerstone ceremonies, dedication ceremonies were conducted for six public schools,
and ground breaking ceremonies for the new hospital facility at the
Masonic Home, Decoto, and for new Temples at Hemet and at Folsom.
Six new lodges were placed under dispensation nnd institution ceremonies conducted. Numerous receptions. breakfasts, dinners, and other
functions were attended throughout the jurisdiction from Lihue on the
Island of Kauai on the West to Susanville and Beckwourth on the E ast
border of California; from Tulelake and Ukiah on the North to El
Centro and Chula Vista on the South. It is estimated that through
attendance at the various Grand Lodge openings. ceremonies, receptions and other fu nc tions, the Grand Master was able to meet with
officers and members of well over 500 constituent lodges in C.:ilifornia
and Hawaii.
Several matters of unflnished business were referred to me a t the
1958 communication :

TELEGRAMS SENT

F AR WEST LoDGE No. 673
I. The petition of several former officers of Far West Lodge No. 673
for removal of restrictions placed upon them in 1955. This was investigated and following receipt of concurrence from the chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, the chairman of the Committee on P olicy
and General Purposes, and the Judge Advocate. I lifted such restrictions
dfective as of January 2, 1959.

The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send an appropriate telegram to the absent Past Grand Masters.

FmDLETOWN CEMETERY

The Deputy Grand Master announced the appointment of the
Committee on Segregation, to consist of Adolph H. Franzen. Walter
Clayton, and Jack L. Blaine.

2. The matter of perfecting of title to the old cemetery of St. M ark's
Lodge No. 85 at Fiddletown ( Proceedings 1958, page 22). The Judge
Advocate has been working toward perfecting the title and has asked
that the property be assessed to the Grand Lodge for the past five
years as a preliminary s tep toward filing an action to quiet title. T his

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

matter should be referred to the incoming Grand Master for final
disposition.

INSTALLATION CEREMONIES JN NON-MASONIC BUILDINGS

JuRrsmcrroN OF TEHACHAPI LoDGE No. 313

3. The request of Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 for recommendation
that the jurisdiction of the Lodge be defined so as to include certain
territory which it has lost due to the establishment of Mojave Lodge No.
733 at Mojave. After review of the circumstances and conference with
the officers of Tehachapi Lodge No. 313, I held that existing law was
adequate and that there was no need for special consideration for
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313. I. therefore, recommend that the petition
be denied.
MAYA LODGE U.D.
T!LA PASS LoDGE U.D.

Of the several lodges placed under dispensation and instituted during
the year, two deserve special mention: Maya Lodge U .D. and Tila Pass
Lodge U.D .. both l~cated at Los Angeles. Membership in these lodges is
almost wholly made up of brethren of Mexican ancestry or Filipino
ancestry though. of course, the two lodges work in the English language.
The inauguration of these two lodges in the Los Angeles area should do
much to discourage clandestine membership among those of Spanishspeaking descent living in that area. and it was a great pleasure for me
to be able to place both of them under dispensation and to conduct
the institution ceremonies.

19

It came to my attention that it has been the practice for many years
for several of the larger lodges in the Los Angeles Metropolitan Area to
hold open installation ceremonies for their officers in private rooms in
hotels, clubs or other similar buildings in which public bars may be
operating. Since the ruling in 1956 which is now ~nnot~ted in the
California Masonic Code as Section 199-f. as modified m 1957 by
Section 199-g. the practice of holding such installations. which are
Masonic functions, in such buildings, is in technical conflict at least
with the ruling referred to. On investigation I found that in each case
there was no bar operating on the same floor as that in which the installation ceremony was conducted: hence in order to clarify the rulings, I
have included as Grand Master's Decision No. 8 a ruling to the effect
that such open installation ceremonies may continue to be held in .a
building in which a public bar is also operating provided that such bar ts
not on the same floor as that in which the installation is held.
Another question was also raised in connection with open installations, and that was whether a lodge. chartered for example, to meet in
the City of Los Angeles, might hold open installation cue.monies in a
hotel in the City of Beverly Hills or the City of Santa Monica. Also to
clarify the rulings. I have included as Grand Master's Decision No .. 9 a
ruling to the effect that an open installation of officers may be held m a
city or community other than the one in which a lodge is chartered to
meet provided the distance from the lodge hall is not excessive.

RECEPTION FOR THE GRAND MASTER OF NEBRASKA

YoRK RITE SovEREIGN COLLEGE

During a reception which was held for me by the officers of lnspectoral District No. 622 at Long Beach. May 14, it was my pleasure to
receive the Most Worshipful John E. Beaver. Grand Master of Masons
in Nebraska, and the Very Worshipful Carl R. Greisen, Grand Secretary of Nebraska. These Grand officers made a special trip to Long
Beach to confer a fifty-year button on Brother Arthur L. Palmer, a
distinguished resident of Long Beach, and a member of one of the
lodges in the Nebraska Jurisdiction. It was a pleasure to cooperate with
the Grand Master of Nebraska in the presentation ceremony.

I was asked to define the status of the York Rite Sovereign College.
so far as the States of California and Hawaii were concerned. Based
on information furnished me, I held that the organization was not in
existence in this jurisdiction on September 27, 1957, nor was it sponsored by or under the control of the California York Rite Bodies; hence
it had no official standing within our jurisdiction under Sections 332.1
and 332.1-a, C.M.C.
Just prior to this communication, however. the one who has been
promoting the establishment of the York Rite Sovereign College in
California has asked for reconsideration of my ruling and has presented
additional information bearing on the two points referred to above. It is .
therefore, my recommendation that the entire matter be held in abeyance and referred to the incoming Grand Master for final determination after reviewing all of the evidence.

PRINTED MATTER ISSUED BY COMMIITEES

There were several instances this year in which Grand Lodge committees or joint committees of the lodges issued printed instructions or
letters which included statements which were inadvertently, no doubt.
at variance with our law and policy. Orderly procedure would require
that all such printed matter be checked for correctness of statement
before it is issued; hence I have requested all committees preparing
printed letters, pamphlets or other communications to submit the copy
to the Grand Secretary's office and order such printed matter only
through the Grand Secretary's office.

RESEARCH PROGRAM

Reports of the Grand Lodge Committee on Research and the several
Research Lodges indicate great progress in the Research program
inaugurated several years ago. One new Research Lodge was chartered,
it being El Camino Research Lodge. located at Mountain View but

20

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

serving the entire Peninsula Area; and another Research Lodge is in
process of being formed at Fresno. All of those who have been instrumental in forwarding the important work of Masonic Education and
Research are to be commended for the many hours of effort put forth in
this most profitable enterprise.
HAWAIIAN TRIP

During the month of July the Grand Master made the customary
visit to the lodges in the Hawaiian Islands and was received everywhere
with the utmost in hospitality and good will. I attended many social
functions and met with the officers and members of all of the lodges
in the State of Hawaii. As the guest of Admiral Herbert G. Hopwood.
Commander in Chief of the Pacific Area Command, I was accorded the
privilege of laying a wreath on the partially submerged hulk of the
USS Arizona in Pearl Harbor, and was shown through the Pearl Harbor
Naval Base as a guest of Rear Admiral Robert L. Campbell, Commander
Service Force. United States Pacific Fleet.
The policy approved at the last communication of sending an Assistant Grand Lecturer to the Hawaiian Islands at regular intervals is
already producing excellent results in improvement of the ritualistic
work and in strengthening our ties with the Island Lodges.
CHARLES MAURICE WOLLENBERG

Our beloved Past Grand Master, M.W. Charles M. Wollenberg,
who has served long and faithfully as member and president of the
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, is not eligible
for reappointment under our law at the expiration of his term this year.
I. therefore. recommend that the incoming Grand Master be authorized
to appoint Brother Wollenberg as Trustee Emeritus and that the Board
of Trustees be authorized to create such a position in addition to the
one created last year for M.W. Charles Albert Adams. P.G.M., to
include the privilege of attending all meetings of the Board of Trustees.
0

GRAND MASTER S D ECISIONS

Compared with the large number of decisions which were rendered
a t the last communication and in prior years, your Grand Master has
been called upon this year to make relatively few. Apparently greater
familiarity with effective rulings as now carried in our excellent California Masonic Code, has resulted in fewer questions to refer to the Grand
Master. The decisions which I have made during the year are summarized in question and answer form below for your consideration:
DECISIONS

1. Question: Does C.M.C. 403-1 ( d). providing that a lodge may
invest its funds in "securities as are legal investments for California
savings banks," authorize loans such as those secured by deed of
trust on real property?
Answer: No. Real estate loans are not classified as investments

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

21

under the terminology of the California Banking Act. In banking
practice there is a marked distinction between investments and
loans. Different sections of the California Banking Act control.
The loan phase of the banking business is separate from the investment phase. Loans, for example, require appraisals, supervisions,
collections and foreclosures. The funds secured by trust deeds
are frozen. Although yielding sometimes higher rates of interest,
they cannot quickly be converted into cash at the face amount. On
a sale, a loss through discount is often the case. T he operations
required are a different type of activity than was contemplated for
lodges in the investment of lodge funds.
2. Question: Is a portion of the cost of a cornerstone for a new public
school building to be laid under Grand Lodge auspices and
Masonic ceremonies a proper lodge expense?
Answer: Yes. Section 137, C.M.C. makes cornerstone ceremonies
for a public school a program of the Grand Lodge and our constituent lodges. Since a cornerstone is essential for such ceremonies,
it may be furnished tmder Section 410, C.M.C.
3. Question: May lodge funds be used to purchase a television set for
a member who is a guest at Decoto?
Answer: Yes. This is a proper lodge expenditure for charitable
purposes under Section 409, C.M.C.
4. Question: Must minutes of special meetings be read in full at the
following stated meeting, or may they be approved "as though
read?"
Answer: They must be read in full. E very member present at a
stated meeting is entitled to know what has taken place since the
last stated meeting, and this can only be accomplished by reading
the minutes in full.
5. Question: Must a Master Mason belonging to a lodge in this
jurisdiction wait a full year before he can become a plural member
of another lodge in this jurisdiction?
Answer: No. Section 432 ( 3). C.M.C., would permit such plural
membership without the requirement for waiting a full year.
6. Question: May a building association rent to another organization
the dining hall of a temple for a lunch or dinner after which bingo
or whist is played for prizes?
Answer: No. The building association may not rent to another
organization space in a temple to do what is illegal to be done by
a Masonic organization. ( C.M.C. 199-f; 685-c, d, £, g.)
7. Question: May a Masonic Building Association which leases
ground floor space in its Temple to a department store permit such
store to maintain a package liquor department. when such department is incidental to the operation of the department store and is
not advertised as a liquor store?
Answer: No. The sale of alcoholic liquors in Masonic Temple

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

property under any conditions is prohibited by prior rulings now
annotated as Section 199-b, C.M.C.
8. Question: May a lodge hold an open installation of officers in a
hotel. non-Masonic private club or other similar building, in which
one or more public bars are in operation?
Answer: It may, provided such a public bar is not on the same
floor as the room in which the open installation ceremony is held,
and further provided that the provisions of Sections 403 and 324,
C.M.C., are complied with.
9. Question: May a lodge hold open installation ceremonies in a
building located in a municipality or community other than the one
in which the lodge is authorized by its charter to meet?
Answer: Yes. Provided that provisions of Section 324-a, C.M.C..
are complied with, and that the distance from the lodge hall to the
place of open installation is not excessive.
I 0. Question: May a lodge or temple corporation pay a monthly pension to a Past Master who has served it for many years as
Secretary?
Answer: No. Such an expenditure would not be permissible under
Sections 409, 410 and 411, C.M.C.
11. Question: May Masonic funeral services be held for a brother who
has previously specified in his will that his body be turned over to
a medical research organization and, therefore, the body is not to
be present at the ceremony?
Answer: No. By previously directing disposition of his body, the
brother has, by implication at least, indicated a desire not to have
a Masonic funeral. The circumstances in this instance are different
from those referred to in Section 605-g, C.M.C.
In closing the year, may I express to the brethren of the Grand
Lodge my sincere thanks and appreciation for the honor of serving as
Grand Master, for the many courtesies ex tended to me and to the other
Grand Lodge officers throughout the entire jurisdiction, and for the
enthusiastic cooperation on the part of all.
I particularly thank the Deputy Grand Master. the Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens, for their support and cooperation, and all of the
officers and committee members who have so faithfully attended the
various functions and who have contributed so greatly to the success of
the year's work. To the Inspectors and Masters and Wardens of the
various districts, my thanks also for the kindnesses shown to me and to
the Grand Lodge officers in arranging transportation and hotel accommodations. and for the careful planning which went into every one of
the functions.
~- _

t:/" ·---~A. ~ ..-

Grand Master.
After a standing ovation the Deputy Grand Master directed that
the message be referred to the Committee on Segregation.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN!.I\

23

EXHIBIT "A"
SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OF GRAND LODGE

1958
October I I-Constitution, Silverado Lodge No. 782, Napa-Grand
Master.
October 25-Constitution, Rio Linda Lodge No. 786, Rio Linda-Grand
Master.
November I-Dedication, Dos Palos Masonic Temple, Dos PalosGrand Master.
November 7-Constitution, EI Camino Research Lodge, Mountain
View-Grand !.faster.
November 8-Constitution , Leland Stanford Lodge No. 784, Chico-Grand Master.
November 14-Constitution, Westminster Lodge No. 787, Westminster
-Grand Master.
November IS-Constitution, Mojave Lodge No. 783, Mojave-Grand
Master.
November 21-Constitution, General Henry H. Arnold Lodge No. 791,
Edwards-Deputy Grand Master.
November 22-Constitution, Granada Hills Lodge No. 790, San Fernando-Grand Master.
November 29-Constitution, Paramount Lodge No. 785, BellflowerGrand Master.
December 13-Constitution, Sierra Lodge No. 788, Bass Lake-Grand
Master.
December 19-Dedication, Marysville Masonic Temple, MarysvilleGrand Master.
December 20---Constitution. Oak Plains Lodge No. 789, Sacramento-Grand Master.
1959
January IO-Dedication, Elysian Masonic Temple, Los AngelesGrand Master.
January 31-Cornerstone, San Bernardino C ounty Branch Building,
Twenty-nine Palms-Grand Master.
March 14 - Dedication, Crescenta Valley Masonic Temple, La
Crescenta-Grand Master.
March 26--Dedication, Palos Verdes Masonic T emple, Long BeachGrand Master.
April 3-Dedication, Manteca Masonic Temple, Manteca.-Grand
Master.
April 4- Dedication , Maricopa Masonic Temple, Maricopa-Grand
Master.
April 24-Dedication, Temple of Riverside Lodge No. 635. Riverside-Grand Master.

24

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

May 2-Cornerstone, North Salinas High School. Salinas-Deputy
Grand Master
May 9-Cornerstone, San Marcos High School. Santa Barbara-Grand
Ma ster.
May 9-Cornerstone. La Colina Junior High School. Santa BarbaraGrand Ma ster.
May I 6-Cornerstone. Juniper School. Escondid<r-Deputy Grand
Master.
June 6-Cornerstone, Stockton Scottish Rite Temple, Stockton-Grand
Master.
June I 3-Dedication, San Bernardino Masonic Temple, San Bernardino
-Grand Master.
June 20-Cornerstone, Kern County Civic Center, Bakersfield-Grand
M aster.
July 18-Dedication, Rosemead Masonic Temple, Rosemead-Deputy
Grand Ma ster.
August I-Cornerstone, Humboldt County Courthouse, Eureka- Grand
Master.
August 8- Cornerstone, Chino Valley Lodge No. 427, Chino-Deputy
Grand Ma ster.
September 5-Cornerstone. Palmdale Masonic Temple, PalmdaleGrand Master
September 19-Dedication Rim of the World Masonic Temple, Twin
Peaks- Grand Matser.
EXHIBIT "B"
SPECIAL CEREMONIES

1959
April 25- Ground-breaking ceremony, new Temple, Hemet Lodge No.
615. Hemet-Grand Master.
May 2-Ground-breaking ceremony. new hospital facility, Masonic
Home, Decoto--Grand Master.
May 2-Cornerstone. Episcopal Guild Hall, Auburn-Asst. Grand
L ecturer RALPH M. FOOTE
May 16-Dedication, McCloud High School, McCloud - Grand
Master.
May 16-Dedication, McDowell Elementary School, Petaluma~enior
Grand Warden.
May 23- Dedication, H iram Johnson High School, Sacrament<r-Grand
Master.
May 23-Ground-breaking ceremony. new Temple of Natoma Lodge
No. 64, Folsom-Grand Master.
June 6- Dedication, Shasta School. Shasta-Senior Grand Warden.
September 19-Dedication, Petaluma Senior High School, PetalumaSenior Grand Warden

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

25

E XHIBIT "C"
NEW LODGES I NSTITUTED

I 959
April I 4-Mt. Wilson Lodge U .D .. Altadena-Grand Master.
May 7-Maya Lodge U.D .. Los Angeles-Grand Master.
May 7-Millbrae Lodge U .D., South San Francisc<r--Senior Grand
Warden.
May 25-Golden Valley Lodge U .D .. San Bernardin<r-Grand Master.
June 6-American River Lodge U.D .. Sacramento-Grand Master.
July 30-Tila Pass Lodge U.D .. Los Angeles-Grand Master.
EXHIBIT "D"
RECEPTIONS AND M ISC ELLAN EOUS

1958
October 5-Breakfast, San Francisco Masters and Wardens Associa~
tion, San Francisco.
October 10-Reception, Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535, Los
Angeles.
October 12-Breakfast, D istrict No. 308. Santa Rosa.
October 16-Reception. Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Hollywood.
October 18-Dinner-reception. West Lake Lodge No. 392, HuntingtonSheraton Hotel. Pasadena.
November 13-Reception, Los Angeles Commandery No. 9, K.T., Los
Angeles
November 26-Dinner, Masonic Press Club, Los Angeles.
1959
January 12-Reception, Districts Nos. 319 and 320. Richmond.
January 20-Grand Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star, Sacramento.
January 24-Meeting of T rustees of Masonic Homes and reception for
the Trustees and the Grand Master. Decoto.
January 30-Reception, District No. 612, Fontana.
February 7-Reception, Lodges of Masonic Districts of San Diego
County, Chula Vista.
February 13-Reception, District No. 607, Coachella.
February 14-Reception, District No. 646, El Centro.
February 28-Reception. Berkeley Masters and Wardens A ssociation.
Berkeley.
March 4-Reception, South Gate Lodge No. 320, Los Angeles.
March 5-Luncheon, Al Malaikah Temple. Biltmore Bowl. Los Angeles.
March 7-Reception, Masonic Club of U .C.L.A .. Los Angeles.
March 8-Breakfast, Masonic Board of Relief. Long Beach.
March 13-Reception, Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers Associa tion, San Jose.

26

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

March I 5-Breakfast. Los Angeles Masonic Board of Relief. Los
Angeles.
March 20-21-Sixth Division Inspectors' Conference, Garden Grove.
March 21-Reception, District No. 304, Ukiah.
March 28-Reception, Aahmes Temple, Oakland.
March 30--Reception, Districts Nos. 514, 516 and 564, Alhambra.
April 2-Reception, District No. 534, Los Angeles.
April 10--Reception, Districts Nos. 114, I I 6, 117 and 206. Chico.
April I I-Reception, Districts Nos. I 09 and I 12, Susanville.
April I6-Reception, Districts Nos. 567 and 568, Bell.
April I 7-I 9- Fifth Division Inspectors' Conference, Ventura.
April I 8-Dinner-Reception, Sacramento Board of Relief. Sacramento.
April I 9-Breakfast. Sacramento Board of Relief. Sacramento.
April 25-Reception, District No. 634, Hemet.
May I-Grand Commandery, K.T., California Masonic Memorial Temple. San Francisco.
May 2-Reception, Districts Nos. 392 and 394, Padfic Grove.
May 6-Reception, Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 69I , Ridgecrest.
May 8-Reception, District No. 507, Arroyo Grande.
May 14-Reception. District No. 622. Long Beach.
May 15-17-Third Division Inspectors' Conference, Guemeville.
May 18-Reception, Centennial Lodge No. 729, Compton.
May 20--Reception, Districts Nos. 606, 608, 610 and 618, El Monte.
May 21-Reception, Ben Ali Temple, Sacramento.
May 22-Reception, Districts Nos. I I8 and 120, Beckwourth.
May 23-Reception, Masonic Club of U.C., Berkeley.
May 24-Breakfast, East Bay Masters and Wardens Association,
Oakland.
May 26-Reception. District No. 562. Gardena.
May 27-Reception. Districts Nos. 520, 522, 530. 542, 556, 558, 570 and
572, Los Angeles.
June 4- Reception, General Henry H. Arnold Lodge. Edwards.
June 5-7-Fourth Division Inspectors' Conference, Yosemite.
June 9- Reception. Districts Nos. 526 and 552, Culver City.
June 14-St. John's Day Breakfast. Compton.
June 19-21 - First and Second Division Inspectors' Conference, Lake
Tahoe.
June 22- Reception. Districts Nos. 512, 545 and 546, North Hollywood.
June 26-Reception, Districts Nos. 104 and 106, Dunsmuir.
July 9- Reception. Kauai Lodge No. 589, Lihue, Kauai, Hawaii.
July IO--Reception, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hilo.
July 13-Reception, Maui Lodge No. 472, Kahului, Maui.
July 21-Reception, District No. 384 , Honolulu.
July 29- Reception, District No. 584, West Los Angeles.
August 10--Reception, Sincerity Lodge No. 132, Greenville. R.W. Guy
B. Mize represented the Grand Master.

August IS-Reception, Catalina Lodge No. 524, Avalon.
August 22-Reception, Canby Cross Lodge No. 679. Tul~lake.
August 29-Reception, Districts Nos. 318, 360 and 361. Pittsburg.
August 31-Reception, District No. 344, Sa n Francisco.
September 4-Reception. District No. 502 , Bishop.
September 13-Breakfast, Masters and Wardens Association, Fresno.
ExHrBrT''E"
ANNIVERSARIES DURING I 958-1959
Grand Master unless noted
1958
October 24-Fiftieth anniversary, Turlock Lodge No. 395, Turlock.
November 11-Seventy-fifth anniversary, Olive Branch Lodge No. 269,
Tulare.
1959
May 8-Seventy-fifth anniversary, Arroyo Grande Lodge No. 274,
Arroyo Grande.
May 28-Fiftieth anniversary, Moneta Lodge No. 405, Los Angeles.
June 13-Centennial, Vacaville Lodge No. 134, Vacaville -Grand
Orator.

EXHIBIT ' 'F"
V1s1TATIONS BY GRAND 0PPICERS TO
OTHER GRAND JURISDICTIONS
I958
December 6-8-Centennial. Grand Lodge of Washington, Tacoma and
Olympia-Grand Master and Grand Secretary.
1959
January 26-27-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Utah , Salt
Lake City-Senior Grand Warden.
February 20-25-Grand Masters' Conference, Washington, D. C. Gra nd Master, Deputy Grand Master and Grand Secretary.
April 27-Annual communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona, Tucson.
f unior Grand Warden.
June 11 - 12- Annual communication, Grand Lodge of Nevada, ElkoDeputy Grand Master.
June 11-13-Annual communication, Grand Lodge of Oregon, Portland
-Junior Grand Warden.
June 16-18-Annual communication. Grand Lodge of Washington,
Tacoma-Senior Grand Warden.

28

PROCEEDING5 OP THE
ExHIBIT"G"
GRAND REPRESENTATIVES

Representing Other Jurisdictions in California:
Japan ........................................................ Rudolph Mohr. Jr.
Nebraska ...................................................... Maurice Coffey
New Jersey ................................................ Glenn C. Holmes
Valle de Mexico................................................ Guy B. Mize
Representing California in Other Jurisdictions:
Denmark ·····:······································-········-Alfred Nyvang
France (National Grand Lodge) ................ Jacques Meriat
Japan ................................................. Robert N. Nishigawa
Valle de Mexico .......................................... Alberto Barocio
EXHIBIT "H"
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS APPROVED
FoR FISCAL YEAR ENDED ]UNE 30, I 959

Legal expense ............................................................................. . $1.100.00
Grand Lodge officers' traveling expense................................... . 2,490.47
Inspectors' aprons and stationery ............................................... .
246.99
Temple dedication expenses ........................................................
242.35
Endowment Board, printing ....................................................... . 1.093.89
Sojourners Committee, printing ................................................. .
208.84

29

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

and cooperating with the school authorities in the promotion of free
public education.
Knowing our public schools means gaining an intimate acquaintance
with members of school boards, faculties and school plants and programs. Supporting our public schools means intelligent participation in
school activities at the local level in each district and opposing any
movement which would impair local administration of school affairs.
I urge every member of our great fraternity at all times, but particularly during Public Schools Week. to know and support our free system
of public education, and thus to keep faith with our great American
heritage.
This proclamation is to be read at stated meetings held during the
months of March and April. I 959.
Dated: February 10, 1959.
PHIL N. MYERS,

Grand Master.

Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON,

Grand Secretary.

PROCLAMATION
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH

Total...................................................................•.................. $5.382.54
FoR THE F1RST QuARTER, CURRENT FrscAL YEAR

''Open Book" (Memorial Temple) .......................................... $1,500.00
*Visual Aids Committee..............................................................
370.00
,. Social security and unemployment taxes..................................
I 00.00
Conference expenses..................................................................
250.00
Grand Lodge officers' traveling expense..................................
500.00

Total..................................................................................... $2 720 00
"Amounts unexpended under the budget for the fiscal year ~nd~d J ~ne
30, 1959.

"J"

EXHIBIT
PROCLAMATION
FORTIETH ANNUAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

Public Schools Week in California will be observed April 27 to
May 2, inclusive.
The theme for this year's observance will be "Keep faith with our
country- Know and support the public schools."
Since the inception of Public Schools Week forty years ago, Masons
of California have diligently promoted observance of the week and hav~
increasingly taken advantage of the opportunity for visiting. encouraging

Again, we wil observe Masonic Homes Endowment Month during
May, 1959.
Here is our opportunity to share with those less fortunate than we,
in making sure that our two great charitable institutions, the Masonic
Home for the older folks at Decoto, and the Home for children at
Covina, are adequately financed, and that for the future they will
continue to provide the loving care which they now afford to those
who need it.
Contributing to such a cause does not deprive us of anythingindeed we are immeasurably benefited ourselves by thus giving expression to our Masonic ideals. We welcome the opportunity to participate,
with unselfish and heartfelt gratitude for the many blessings we enjojy
through our Masonic association.
This proclamation is to be read at stated meetings held during the
months of April and May, 1959.
Dated: February 10, 1959.
PHIL N. MYERS,

Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON,

Grand Secretary.

Grand Master.

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

31

PROCLAMATION

RESOLUTIONS

The Constitution of the United States is the greatest document for
the government of a people ever evolved by the mind of man. As the
years pass by this remarkable instrument demonstrates again an.cl again
its flexibility in meeting the demands of a growing nation without losing
its power to maintain and support democratic self government.
We, as citizens of this great nation and especially as Masons, are
proud of the work of our forefathers and of those among them who were
members of our Craft, who had the foresight and wisdom to forge this
great instrument of human liberty, born as it was out of sorrow, suffering, hardship and self-sacrifice. As citizens and as Masons we take
time each year to pause and meditate on these things. to give joyful
thanks for the blessings we enjoy, and for the bountiful opportunities
that are ours as free men in a free land.
Therefore, I hereby proclaim that each lodge in this jurisdiction,
independently or in conjunction with other lodges or by Masonic Districts, shall set apart one day during the month of September or October,
1959, but preferably in September, of which the 17th day is the one
hundred seventy-second anniversary of the signing of the Constitution
of the United States, to memorialize the occasiQll in the giving of a
suitable program which will be open to the general public. Further,
that when several lodges join in the same program, no lodge among
them shall hold a meeting or schedule an event, for any other purpose
on the appointed day, except its stated meeting.
It is especially recommended that the lodges endeavor to make the
observance a community event, in which the entire community takes
part and to which the general public will be invited.
This proclamation to be read at the first meeting following its receipt
and at the September stated meeting.
Dated: July 31, 1959.

The Grand Secretary read the following resolutions which were
referred by the Grand Master to the committees as noted:

PHIL N. MYERS,

Attest :
LLOYD E. WILSON,

Grand Secretary.

Grand Master.

RESOLUTION ON FINE ARTS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
We, the undersigned. respectfully submit the following Resolution
for your approval and adoption:
WHEREAS, Beauty is one of our basic fundamentals; and
WHEREAS, this Grand Lodge owns many valua ble pieces of art;
and
WHEREAS. many forms of art are used by this Grand Lodge; and
WHEREAS. our artistic possessions are visible examples of our
good taste and judgment; and
WHEREAS. many poorly painted portraits have been made of our
Grand Masters: and
WHEREAS, many members of our Fraternity are recognized artists:
and
WHEREAS. art in many graphic forms is used by this Grand
Lodge;
BE IT RESOLVED that a Grand Lodge Standing Committee on
F ine Arts be established to :
1. Approve the artistic quality of all designs, drawings, scrolls, etc.,
used by Grand Lodge.
2. Assist the constituent Lodges with any problems concerning art .
3. Commission an appropriate Portrait Artist each year to paint the
portrait of the Grand Master.
4. To have the Grand Master's portrait properly framed and displayed.
5. Arrange for the proper display of art objects owned by the Grand
Lodge.
6. Assist the Grand Master in any problems concerning art.
Respectfully submitted,
MILTON R. EN1WISTLE, Worshipful Master
Hollywood Lodge No. 355
PAULE. HERZOG, Worshipful Ma ster
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415
VoYLE H . SIPES, Worshipful Master
Cahuenga Lodge No. 513
THOMAS E. BUFORD. Worshipful Master
Melrose Lodge No. 602
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes and on Finance.

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION ON INDEMNIFICAT ION

JOHN K. COTHRAN , Past Master
Naval Lodge No. 87
and on Policy and GenJurisprudence,
on
Referred to Committees
eral Purposes.

( A-1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
BE IT RESOLVED that each officer and committeeman of the
Grand Lodge, whether or not then in office or serving. shall be indemnified by the Grand Lodge against all costs and expenses reasonably
incurred by or imposed upon him in connection with or arising out of
any claim, action, suit or proceeding in which he may be involved or to
which he may be a party by reason of his being or having been an
officer or committeeman of the Grand Lodge (such expenses to include
the cost of reasonable settlements made with a view to curtailment of
costs of litigation), except in relation to matters as to which he shall be
finally adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding to have been derelict
in the performance of his duties as such officer or committeeman; and
the foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of other
rights to which he may be entitled as a matter of law.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY C. CLAUSEN, Past Master
Ingleside Lodge No. 630
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General Purposes.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK SCHOLARSHIP AW ARDS
(A-2)
Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Grand
Worshipful
Most
To the
WHEREAS. for many years the Grand Lodge of California has.
through its sponsorship of Public Schools Week, promoted and encouraged the development of our Public Schools system, and
WHEREAS, the Public Schools Committee is on record as favoring
the award of scholarships in connection with the observance of Public
Schools Week, and
WHEREAS . no machinery presently exists whereby constituent
lodges may adequately administer and effectively control such a system
of awards, and
WHEREAS, it is believed that the most effective administration of
such awards may be accomplished at the local level, thereby promoting
greater interest in the program and identifying the awards more closely
with the Masonic fraternity, therefore
BE IT RESOLVED. that constituent lodges or groups of lodges
be authorized to develop scholarship award programs in their own localities and to expend thereon such sums as may be required in their discretion and consistent with sound financing.
I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was unanimously
adopted by the brethren of Naval Lodge at our stated meeting held on
Thursday, June 4, 1959.

33

ANNUAL COMMUNICAT ION LAST FULL WEEK
IN SEPTEMBER
( B-1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of C alifornia:
WHEREAS. approximately five hundred and fifty ( 550} lodges
hold their stated meeting the first week of each month, and
WHEREAS . approximately one hundred and seventeen ( 117)
lodges hold their stated meeting the second week of each month, and
WHEREAS. approximately four ( 4) lodges hold their stated meeting before the full moon. and
WHEREAS. one ( 1) lodge holds its stated meeting the last Friday
of each month.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED. that the first sentence of
Section 101 of the Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"Each annual communication of Grand Lodge shall be held in the
city of San Francisco. commencing on Monday of the last full week of
September. at ten o'clock A.M. "
To become effective at the expiration of any current leases.
EUGENE C. OLDERSHAW, Master, Lodge No. 224
JAMES W. BORGMAN, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 224
ERNEST R. GOEBLE, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 224
ROBERT W. OATES, Master. Lodge No. 466
R. CARL BECK, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 466
ARTHUR H. LANE, Junior Warden. Lodge No. 466
TROY L. BRADSHAW. Master, Lodge No. 486
LoRIN 0. MONTGOMERY, Senior Warden. Lodge No. 486
PATRICK J. FORD, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 486
KENNETH L. MORRIS, Master, Lodge No. 581
LYLE L. STUMBAUGH, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 581
MARION MAY, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 581
THERON J. OAKS, Master. Lodge No. 688
Le.Roy E. HALBERT, Senior Warden. Lodge No. 688
ROBERT L. LANE, JR., Junior Warden, Lodge No. 688
JAMES F. TYACK, Master. Lodge No. 695
GEORGE UHLER, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 695
WILTON SIMS, Junior Warden. Lodge No. 695
Loms B. "JAcK" SMITH, Master, Lodge No. 773
GEORGE C. POLOYNIS, Senior Warden. Lodge No. 773
PAULL. TEMPLE, Junior Warden. Lodge No. 773
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL COM MUNICATION SECOND WEEK
OF OCTOBER

If amended, this section would read:
"It shall be the duty of the Inspector to appoint in each lodge within
his district an Officers' Coach who shall be a qualified Past Master of a
lodge of this jurisdiction, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the
Inspector. The Officers' Coach shall assist in teaching the ritual to the
officers of the lodge, and assist in preparing them to qualify for advancement."
Respectfully submitted.
RALPH W. COLLINS. Past Master, Lodge No. 566
M1LTON H. LANG, Past Master, Lodge No. 458
Roy T. KIELE. Past Master, Lodge No. 319
DONALD G. CAMPBELL, Past Master. Lodge No. 608
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes and on Ritual.

(B-2)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED, that Section 101 C.M.C. be amended to read as
follows:
I 01. Annual. Each Annual Communicatio n shall be held in the
City of San Francisco, commencing on the second Monday of October,
at ten o'clock a.m.; provided. however. that any Annual Communicatio n
may be held at any other place in the State of California upon the
adoption by this Grand Lodge at any previous Annual Communicatio n
by a five-sixths vote of a resolution so providing.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY G. VAN DYKE, Past Master. Lodge No. 327
EDWIN C. BRACHT, Master. Lodge No. 327
DALEE. GUNDERSON, Master, Lodge No. 543
OMER D. AKIN, Master. Lodge No. 716
A. R. MOBERG. JR., Master, Lodge No. 504
ALAN V. SHILLING, Master, Lodge No. 643
W. AL LANGDON, Master. Lodge No. 655
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General Purposes.

QUALIFICA TIONS OF OFFICERS' COACH
(C-1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. Section 161 (4th) of the California Masonic Code
requires that the Inspector appoint in each lodge within his district an
Officers' Coach who shall be a qualified Past Master of the lodge, to
assist in teaching the ritual to the officers. and
WHEREAS. it has been interpreted that "a qualified Past Master
of the Lodge" be one who has served a term as Master of that particular
Lodge. and
WHEREAS. a lodge under dispensation, or a newly constituted
lodge, does not have "a qualified Past Master of the lodge" until the
successor of the charter Master has been iinstalled, and
WHEREAS. Section 161 (4th) imposes a duty inconsistent with
the meaning of our law, and
WHEREAS. in certain areas of this jurisdiction the one most
qualified to serve as Officers' Coach may not be "a Past Master of the
Lodge."
NOW, THEREFORE . BE IT RESOLVED: That Section 141
( ith) be amended by striking the words "of the Lodge" and substituting
therefore "of a Lodge of this Jurisdiction" and further striking out the
word "his" and substituting therefore the word "the."

35

INVESTME NT PERCENTAGE FORMULA GRAND LODGE
( D-1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED. that Section 246-1 be amended by striking out the
words "40%" and substituting therefore "20%" so that the section
will then read "at least 20% of the funds available for investment must
bein
"A. Cash or bank accounts.
"B. Obligations of the United States or those for which the faith
and credit of the United States are pledged to provide for the payment
of the interest and principal.
"C. Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions, provided they were issued pursuant to law and that the faith
credit of such state or municipal corporation or district are pledged for
their payment.
"D. Such securities as are legal investments for California savings
banks."
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 246-3 be
amended by striking therefrom the words "40%" and substituting
therefore the words "60% " so that the Section will then read "up to
60% may be invested in:
"A. Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered on an
exchange registered with the Securities Exchange as a National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall not apply to
bank or insurance company stocks.
"B. Shares of Investment Trusts."
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Past Master, Lodge No. 370.
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes and on Ritual,

36

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REVOLV ING LOAN FUND
(D-2)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHERE AS. many lodges are, by reason of their short existence or
geographi cal location unable to finance, or procure financing for temples: and,
WHEREA S. this fact inhibits their growth: and
WHERE AS, all Masonic lodges in this jurisdictio n share, with all
other economic and social elements in the State of California great
potential growth in both size and wealth: and.
WHEREA S. it would be to the advantage of Masonry in California
to join together and assist small lodges to achieve this potential growth
as expeditiou sly as possible;
NOW, THEREF ORE. be it resolved, and the undersign ed do
petition Grand Lodge to institute a revolving fund available for loans
to lodges for capital improvem ents for Temple purposes; and further,
THAT, the following Section be incorpora ted into the Masonic
Code, to wit:
Section 288 : Revolving Fund for Loans to Lodges for Building
Purposes.
Grand Lodge shall collect, in addition to the assessmen ts and per
capita levies set forth in Section 283 of this Code, the sum of $............
per year from each member of a lodge in this jurisdictio n, to be transmitted by the Secretary to the Grand Treasurer on the first day of
January in each year.
The Grand Treasurer shall, with these funds, institute the Grand
Lodge Revolving Loan Fund. which shall be disbursed to constituen t
lodges in the form of loans to be used for temple constructi on and
improvement, but not for furnishing s.
The Grand Lodge Committe e on Lodge Financing shall adopt rules
and regulation s, subject to Grand Lodge approval, setting forth the
other terms and conditions upon which such loans shall be made, including interest charges, audits, reports. inspection s, terms of loans, manner
of repaymen t, and such other matters as may be needed to conserve
the fund. This committee shall administer this fund.
Any funds in this Revolving Loan Fund in excess of those needed for
the initial purposes thereof may be employed by Grand Lodge, upon
resolution adopted in Grand Lodge, for such other purposes as may
be deemed meet.
CLAUDE D. HARRIS, Master, Lodge No. 754
GEORGE R. Jov. Master, Lodge No. 705
LENNARD J. CARTER, funior Warden, Lodge No. 705
CHARLES E. WATERS, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 705

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

37

HERMAN SEvERLOH, Master, Lodge No. 337
}AMES W . HUDDLESTON, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 353
J.E. MARVIN, Senior Warden , Lodge No. 754
Referred to Committe es on Jurisprude nce, on Policy and General
Purposes, on Finance, on Lodge Financing , and on Temple Associatio n
Finances.

LEGAL INVEST MENTS IN HAW All
(D-4)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLV ED , that Section 403-1 ( d) be amended by striking the
words "for California savings banks" and substitutin g therefore the
words "for savings banks in California and Hawaii" so that the
section will then read:
( d) Such other securities as are legal investmen ts for savings
banks in California and Hawaii.
PAUL A. PFLUEGER . Past Master, Lodge No. 374
Referred to Committe es on Jurisprude nce. and on Policy and General Purposes.

SAVING S AND LOAN ASSOC IATION SSTATE OF HAWAI I
( D-5)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
RESOLV ED, that Section 403-3{c) be amended by striking the
word "Territory " and substitutin g the word "State" so that the Section
will then read "Savings accounts in and investmen t certificates issued by
a building and loan associatio n or a savings and loan associatio n organized and existing under the laws of the State of California or of the
State of Hawaii which is an insured institution as defined by Title IV
of the National Housing Act, .•• "
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Past Master. Lodge No. 374
Referred to Committe es on Jurisprude nce, on Policy and General
Purposes.

INVEST MENT PERCEN TAGE FORMU LA-LOD GES
(D-7)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
RESOLV ED. that Section 403-1 be amended by striking out the
words "40%" and substitutin g therefore "20%" so that the Section will
then read:
'1. At least twenty per cent ( 20 % ) of the funds available for investment must be in:
" (a) Cash and/or bank accounts.

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

" ( b) Obligations of the United States or those for the payment of
which the faith of the United States is pledged.
" ( c) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions, provided they were issued pursuant to law and that the faith
and credit of such municipal corporation or district is pledged for their
payment.
" ( d) Such other securities as are legal for investments for California
Savings banks."
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that Section 403-3 be
a mended by striking therefrom the words "40%" and substituting
therefore the words "60% " so that the section will then read:
"3. Up to sixty per cent ( 60%) may be invested in:
" (a) Common stocks. which must be fully listed and registered on
an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as
a National Securities Exchange. except that this listing requirement shall
not apply to bank and insurance company stock.
"(b) Shares of investment trusts."
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Past Master, Lodge No. 374
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

RATIO OF CUBES IN BALLOT BOX

HOME PORT JURlSDICTION
(E-2)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. Section 520 of the California Masonic Code refers
specifically to "a vessel belonging to the United States Navy" and
WHEREAS. there are numerous vessels of the United States Coast
Guard, the United States Coast & Geodetic Survey, the Military Sea
Transportation Service, as well as other ships that have personnel
serving aboard who would make fine applicants to any Masonic Lodge.
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED: That Section 520 ( C.M.C.)
be amended to include vessels of the United States Coast Guard, the
United States Coast & Geodetic Survey, the Military Sea Transportation
Service and other craft whose personnel serving aboard said vessels
receive their salary payments directly from the United States Government and that any person attached to said vessel for the six months
last past may apply for and receive the degrees of Masonry in any
Lodge having jurisdiction of the home port of the vessel.
ROBERT H. BURROWS, Past Master, Lodge No. 697
JAMES S. PURSLEY, Past Master, Lodge No. 697
RoBERT E. VooRTMEYER, Past Master, Lodge No. 697
LAWRENCE A. LowELL, Past Master, Lodge No. 697
ERWIN P. OBERLANDER, Past Master, Lodge No. 697
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

39

( E-3)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED. that Section 533 C.M.C. be amended by striking the
first sentence thereof which now reads:
"The ballot box shall be prepared by placing therein a sufficient
number of cubes and black balls, one third of the whole number being
cubes."
And substituting the following :
"The ballot box shall be prepared by placing therein a sufficient
number of cubes and white balls, one-fifth of the whole number being
cubes."
Respectfully submitted.
ARTHUR J. S1ssoNS, Past Master. Lodge No. 674.
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

DUES COLLECTION EXPENSE
(E-5)
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Some members of the lodges in this jurisdiction, as a matter of habit.
or practice. frequently allow their dues to become delinquent, and pay
them only after repeated telephone calls, and notices sent by registered
mail. When they finally tender their dues, either before suspension, or
within the two years after, the lodge has to bear the cost of the expenses
of notifying them into paying the arrearage. It would be equitable, and
salutary. if the habitually delinquent dues payer were required to add
these costs to the price of bringing his delinquencies to date. Therefore,
the following Grand Lodge action is urged, to-wit:
That Section 581. Masonic Code. be amended to read as follows :
"Any member thus suspended shall be restored who, within two
years . shall pay the arrearages due at the time of his suspension,
together with such further dues as would, had he retained his membership. have accrued against him to the date of such payment, or who
shall have had such arrearages and dues remitted by his Lodge, and. in
the case of payment of arrearage is required, together with such other
costs expended by the lodge. as certified by the Secretary, in the nature
of telephone calls, certified or registered letters, telegrams, travel, or
other expenses reasonably expended in order to apprise him of his
delinquen cy and the consequences thereof."
LAWRENCE H. BREWSTER, Master , Lodge No. 502
ALLISON R. HIGGINS, Past Master , Lodge No. 502
JosEPH GENN, Past Master, Lodge No. 502
CHARLES E. McCRAY, Senior Warden. Lodge No. 502
LowELL R. SEARS, Past Master, Lodge No. 502
CARL ALEXANDER, Past Master, Lodge No. 502

40

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CHARLES L. STANLEY, Past Master, Lodge No. 502
CALVIN H. HULL, Past Master. Lodge No. 502
HAROLD J. LARSON, Past Ma ster, Lodge No. 502
S . L. PIPER, Past Master, Lodge No. 502
JOHN E. THURBON, Junior Warden. Lodge No. 502
H. EUGENE STEVENS, Past Master, Lodge No. 502
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

RESOLVED. that the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A . M .,
of the State of California , adopt the following policy regarding t~e
playing of BINGO and that a nnotation ( d) of Section 685 of the
California M asonic Code be amended accordingly:
BINGO ga mes may be conducted by lodges or so-called collateral
Masonic organizations subject to the following restrictions:
1. Attendance must be limited to members of the lodge or organization and their families and guests.
2. No charge can be made, directly or indirectly, for attendance
or participation in the ga me.
3. Prizes awarded must be of nominal value, such as boxes of
candy, or items of similar value.
4. There can be no lottery. drawing or raffle for prizes conducted
incident to such game.
5. The event cannot be advertised or publicized other than in the
regularly published bulletins to members of the lodge or organization .
Any lodge or Mitsonic org anization, or any member thereof. conducting or pa rticipating in a BINGO game in which the foregoing
restrictions are not complied with shall be regarded as violating
Masonic law and policy .
Respectfully submitted,
MILTON SIMMONS, Worshipful Ma ster, Lodge No. 360
MELVIN LowE. Junior Warden, Lodge No. 360
WILLIAM F. JEBE, Past Master, Lodge No. 360
A . C. THOMASON. Past Ma ster, Lodge No. 360
F. R. BowES, Past Master. Lodge No. 144
MAYNARD R. WATSON. Senior Warden. Lodge No. 144
R. N. DANIEL. Junior Warden. Lodge No. 534
A. F. ENDERLI N. S enior Warden. Lod ge No. 360
WILLIAM C. MAXWELL, Past l\.1aster. Lodge No. 360
FRANCIS S. H EURING, Master. Lodge No. 534
H. M. SMITH, Past Master , Lodge No. 534
J. D. HANSEN . M aster. Lodge No. IH
FtORI MoscA. Junior Warden , Lodge N o. 461
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

REQUIRING WRITTEN BALLOT
( E-6)
To the Most Wor shipful Grand Lodge F. A. M. of California:
RESOLVED. that Section 582 C.M.C. relating to res toration after
neglect for two years to pay dues be amended by striking the words
"a two-thirds vote by ballot" and substituting the words " a two-thirds
vote by written ballot."
Respectfully submitted ,
ARTHUR J. SissONS, Past Master. Lodge No. 674
Referred to Committees on Juris prudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

o

BINGO RESTRICTIONS
(E- 7)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. o A . M. of California:
WHEREAS. for many years prior to 1955 the game of BINGO
(as hereinafter described) was one of the most popular social events in
many California Lodges and so-called collateral Masonic organizations.
and
WHEREAS, when the game of BINGO is planned by the Lodge
or organization solely as a social activity for the entertainment of its
members and their families, no charge is ma de for admission or to play
the game, the public is not invited a nd the event is not publicized outside the lodge or organization and the prizes are limited to those of
nominal value; the game has no public connotation of gambling because
the public is in no w a y involved and the members and their families
are fully aware of the non-commercial nature of the event, and
WHEREAS. the playing of BIN GO in California Lodges and socalled collateral Masonic organizations ha s been terminated by the
ruling in 1955 by the Most Worshipful Grand Master that the game
of BINGO is against Masonic law and policy. and
WHEREAS, many members of California Lodges and collateral
organizations do not agree that the ruling of the Most Worshipful
Grand Master in 1955 is correct and said members desire that this
Grand Lodge adopt a more reasonable policy regard ing the playing
of BINGO in said lodges and organizations, it is

'f 1

FAILURE TO PLEAD NOT GUILTY

.
I

J

( F~l)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. o A. M. of California:
RESOLVED. that Section 692.4 of the Masonic Code be amended
to read as follows :
(Procedure if accused fails to plead not guilty. ) II, within the time
limited in said notice. the accused shall not have filed in writing. with
the Secretary of the lodge, his plea of not guilty, the Master of said
lodge, or Trial Master if the Master is disqualified, shall make com-

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LO DGE OF CALIFORN IA

plete investigation and shall determine whether the charge and specifications are true, causing the facts relating thereto to be reduced to
writing, in triplicate; and he shall make a finding as to the guilt or
innocence of the accused, shall fix the penalty therefor, and shall cause
one copy of the complete written record to be forwarded to the Grand
Secretary, and shall cause two copies thereof to be fl.led in the archives
of the Lodge. Should accused make a written request for a copy of
the record, one of these copies may be given to him. At the next meeting
of the lodge. the Trial Master shall announce his findings and the
penalty imposed by him. Notice of the penalty fixed by the Trial
Master shall be mailed to the accused at his last known address. A
copy of the minutes of the Master's announcement shall be sent to the
Grand Secretary as a part of the record.
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Master, Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Grievances.

SERVICE OF SUMMONS

DUTY OF TRIAL MASTER
( F-2)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED. that Section 699 of the Masonic Code be amended
by adding at the end thereof the following sentence:
When the Master is disqualified for any reason, the Trial Master
appointed must make the investigation and findings, and must fix the
penalty and make the report provided for in Section 692.4 of this code.
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Master, Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Grievances.

RIGHT OF ACCUSED
(F-3)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
RESOLVED, that Section 702 of the Masonic Code be amended to
add at the end thereof the following sentence:
The summons shall also inform the accused of his right to be represented by counsel as provided in Section 709 of th-is code.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the form in Section 705 of
the M asonic Code. be amended by adding after the words, "which is
hereu nto annexed," the following sentence: "Any .Master Mason in
good standing may. at your request, appear as your counsel and assist
in your defense, or may represent you if you cannot be present. Such
counsel need not be an a ttorney at law."
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Master, Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Grievances.

43

(F-4)

To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED, that Section 707 of the Masonic Code be amended
to read as follows:
Service of Summons. If the accused be within the jurisdiction of the
lodge or within the county in which the lodge is located, the summons
and copy of the charges shall be issued and served upon the accused at
least ten days prior to the day appointed for the trial. and shall be
served personally by the Tiler or some other member of the lodge
authorized by the Master for that purpose, or s hall be left at his ordinary
residence or place of business, or may be forwarded to his addres s by the
Secretary, by mail. If he be without the said jurisdiction, but within
the state. and his residence be known, they shall be issued and served
upon the accused at least thirty days prior to the day appointed for
the trial. and shall be forwarded to his address by the Secretary, by
mail. If he be without the state and his residence be known, they shall
be issued and served upon the accused at least sixty days prior to the
day appointed for the trial, by the Secretary forwarding the same to his
address by mail. If his address be unknown the Master shall order the
trial to proceed at once upon the testimony. ex parte. In the event the
trial shall be held ex parte the record shall contain a full statement of
the facts showing due diligence in the effort to locate the accused.
Service by mail as herein permitted shall be complete from and
after depositing the documents in the mail in a sealed envelope with
sufficient postage thereon. upon due proof thereof by certificate of the
Secretary.
ALBERT F. Ross. Past Master, Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Grievances.

USE OF " TRIAL MASTER"
( F~5)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED, that Sections 718, 720, 723 and 726 of the Masonic
Code be amended by substituting for the words. "Master or Past
Master." wherever they appear, the words, "Trial Master."
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Master, Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Grieva nces.

RESTORATION FOLLOWING EXPULSION
( F ~6)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED, that Section 767 of the Masonic Code be amended by
adding at the end thereof the following:
If the lodge which expelled petitioner was not the lodge of which he
was then a member, similar notice shall be given to the lodge of which

PROCE!!.DINGS OP THE

petitioner was a member at the time of his expulsion, if the same was a
lodge within the jurisdictio n of this Grand Lodge.
The notice must be read at the next stated meeting of the lodge after
its receipt and the Master must state to the members present that a vote
may be taken then or at the following stated meeting on the question of
approval or disapprov al of the restoration . If a motion is made and
seconded either to approve or disapprov e the restoration a secret vote
by ballot shall be taken and the result entered in the minutes. and the
secretary shall promptly notify the Grand Secretary of the result of
said ballot.
The Master shall also announce that any member may express his
endorsal of or objection to the restoration by communication to the
Grand Secretary or that any member may orally state his approval or
disapprov al to the Master. Prior to the opening of the next annual
communic ation of Grand Lodge the Master shall inform the Grand
Secretary in writing the number of endorsers and of objectors.
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Master, Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committe es on Jurisprude nce and on Grievatlce s.

REQUES T FOR RECON SIDERA TION
TRIAL RECORD NO. 1389
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F . 6 A. M. of California:
RESOLV ED: That the action of the Most Worshipf ul Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons at the 109th Annual Communi cation regarding the case covered by Trial Record 1389 be rescinded
and said case be referred back to the Grievance Committe e for further
study and recommen dation.
ERNEST M. NEWTON, Past Master
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
OAKLEY D. NORTH, Past Ma ster
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
CONRAD J. SPENCER, Master
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
MELVIN C. KETCHAM , Senior Warden
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
THOMAS D. MEYER, funior Warden
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
Referred to Committe e on Grievance s.

NON-EM ERGENT MATTE RS
A resolution submitted by Officers and Past Masters of Utopia
Lodge No. 537. relative to the reading of minutes, was forwarded to
the Grand Secretary subsequen t to the deadline prescribed in the
regulation s. The Grand Master declared the subject matter non-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

45

emergent and ruled that the resolution could not be considered at this
Communic ation.
Three resolution s, submitted by the Junior Warden of Redlands
Lodge No. 300, relative to Proficienc y Examinati on in th~ Thir.d Degree.
Group Conferrin g of Degrees. and Apron Presentati on Rituals. respectively . were each declared by the Grand Master to hav~ been received subsequen t to the time limit prescribed in the regulation s. The
Grand Master ruled each of them to be non-emer gent in character and
ruled that they could not be considered at the Communic ation.

RESOLU TIONS WITHD RAWN
The Grand Master announced that the following resolution s, which
had been included in the items circulated sixty days ago. were withdrawn by the respective sponsors:
Amaranth -Foundati on, Inc. and Order of Caritas. Inc. ( A-3)
Charter Membersh ip (D-3)
Multiple Membersh ip ( E-1)
Third Degree Ritual Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371 (E-4)
At 11 : 50 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until I : 30 p.m.

46

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AFTERNOON SESSION, Monday, September 28, 1959
At 1 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation.

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
The following distinguished guests were introduced. received with
Grand Honors, and after being greeted at the altar by the Grand
Master, were escorted to seats reserved for them:

M:.w: .DAvlD w. PEARsoN,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
M:.w:.RoBERT H. GuTHRIE.
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M:.w:.RoYAL D. CRowELL.

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
M: .w: .FRANK E. VAN DEMARK,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Montana.
M:

.w: .c. LEANDER PRISK,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Utah.
M: .W.".LELAND D. WILSON,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
M: .W.".GEORGE A. FITCH,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of China.
The following distinguished guests were introduced, received with
Public Grand Honors. and escorted to seats reserved for them:

M: .w:.JoHN I. PREISSNER.
Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge
of Washington.
R:.w:.Juuus M. SwANsoN,

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.

M:.w:.J. W1LuAM J. SrnoMAN,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M:.W.".WILL H. TAYLOR,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M: .W.".STANTON YOUNGBERG,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.

M:.w: .T. F. WE1,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of China.
M.".W.".GEORGE EMET McMILLAN,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
M:.W.".CHARLES A. CARLSON, JR ..

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.

W.".ALPRED

47

s. LEE,

Past Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of China and now a
member of San Francisco Lodge No. 360.

w: .FELIX A. LENHART,
Past Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia
and now a member of Durant Lodge No. 268.
R: .W.°.JACOB ATHIAS ROBLES,

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Panama (received
Thursday. October 1st).
W.".HENRY DEUTSCH,

Grand Marshal of the Grand Lodge of Panama (received Thursday, October 1st).
At various times during the Communication the following distin~
guished guests addressed the Brethren at the invitation of the Grand
Master. Each of the addresses was enthusiastically received. In each
instance the warmth of the fraternal greetings was sincerely appreciated.
M:.W.".LELANO D. WILSON,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
M.".W.".GEORGEA. FITCH,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of China.

M:.w: .RoYAL D. CRowELL,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada,

M:.w: .DAvlD w. PEARSON,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.

M:.w: .RoBERT H. GuTHRrn.
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M:.w: .JoHN 1. PRE1ssNER.
Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge of Washington.

48

PROCEED INGS OF THE

49

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

REPO RT OF GRAN D TREA SURE R
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
It is a pleasure for me to present this. my fifth annual report. as your
Grand Treasur er. This report is for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1959.
During the year your Grand Treasur er has had numero us telepho ne
and other confere nces with our auditors , Skinner & Hammo nd. Their
coopera tion and assistan ce has been invalua ble to me. for which I express my grateful thanks. I strongly urge that each member of this Grand
Lodge study the reports carefull y. reading the auditor s' certificate, exhibits. schedul es, balance sheets and income stateme nt, in conjunc tion
with the compar ative summar y of Receipt s and Disburs ements which
is
a part of your Grand Treasur er's report.
In order to facilitat e ymtr study of the audit reports. they are combined with and made a part of this report. By so doing, we reduce the
number of individu ally printed reports, thus resultin g in some moneta ry
savings to Grand Lodge.
Each year our Commi ttee on Finance . present ly under the able
chairma nship of P. G. M . Frank Harwel l. Jr .. present s to this Grand
Lodge a budget of estimat ed income and expense . In order to facilitat
e
paymen ts under Grand Lodge authorit y, starting two years ago they
have also submitt ed a supplem ental budget coverin g that period from
dose of fiscal year July 1 to the end of the next Annual Commu nication
.
The results of this procedu re are most satisfac tory.
In closing this report I wish to express my appreci ation as Grand
Treasur er, and the appreci ation of the Grand Lodge, for reasono bly
strict adheren ce by Commi ttee Chairm en and Grand Lodge officers to
the adopted budget a s present ed each year by our hard working Finance
Commi ttee. Those few addition al appropr iations request ed and which
will be present ed for approva l at this Session , were of a minor nature
and, on analysis. seemed justified and reasona ble.
Again, my sincere thanks to the office staff for the very splendid
coopera tion during the year under review.
Respect fully Submitt ed,
EDWARD , H. SIEMS,
Grand Treasurer
Referre d to Commi ttee on Segrega tion.

G!WID LODGE F. & LM. 01' CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED OROANIZATlOl!S

Pege l

s~RI or R!e&lPTS &ND :nsm.rRSEMDITS -

DA~ !.S SiiO...-N

COMPARATIVE

TEAR Ell'DED
'!£All &NDED
JUNE 30, 1959 JUNS 30 . 1958
~

!!ECSIPTS t

Grand Lodge:

Per capita, cont.ri but1.on.1, and r ...
Int.e,..o t. 1 d1Tidond• 1 and mbcell&n eou•

Mponio Hol!lll9 - Ggnerd f'upd:
Grand Lodge per capita and contribut ion•
P"1W"'nts throtlg!I Lode•• !or lloaeo
Interest, diTidenda , and miseellAn eona
Kason1£ Homes - Per:»WMt Z{!do-ant. l'uaj :
Interest, dividcndo , and lt.iscell.an oouo

Muonic Ko,.es - Ot.ber l!z\do1Ctenl
Cont.r1but. 1one
lnt.ere•t and d1Tidend•

Fund••

•
•

lnt.oreot

X...Ori&l Temple operation •

Total Income (lilsclusiv e of Car it.al Ga'..ns)
CAPITl.L !!iC§lPTS
Grand lpdge I

I

324,400.5 0
)5,'791.40
u2 , 626. SZ

lJ . 50 $

)28. 50
22,726.22
:2~ 122!t·22

•

323 5l3 . 61

•
•

I

2J ,~8 .26

2J , ~22.!i.6 $

313 .roJ .n

• i2
216.

4, 098.77
lO!i ,118.2'.Z

10s,

335,815.0 0
)2,86) . 25
120,ros.2 8
iis2,i. s~ .~~

iiz~,888,!U

$

•

JlJ '971. 2J.
~ 12Ji0. ~2
J!t1 ,2u .z6

'
'

$

$

h!9n1o T0111ple :

•

31'7 ,524.95
2§,l:i!i,21
$ J!t2 , 6Z2 · 16 i

!lit

~ 1 . ;a6 , 82Q.2/i

5,613.47

•

~, 066.62

16ao,12

'1,1!!'.Z 12'.Zl 1JZ

Il"CWDINr. LOANS A.ND CA!' ITAL CAINS :

Gain on eal • of seeurit 1••

Beque•t.ll and contribut ion•

la19p1c Hol>9s - CenerBl Fund:
Gain on sal e o! aecuritie •
Bequests and contr1but ione
AHignmen t.e by rooidonta
~n1c Homes - Pe[!lfn•nl Endo,...nt l'llnd1
Beque s t~

a.nd contribut ions
Gain on eole o! aecurit ios and reel estate

JCason1c Ho@ea -

Otter Endo i..ment and Truot fi.uY.la:
Gain on sale o! securities
Received !roa. resident.• for de;ios it.

llmorW T•pl11
.
Grand Lodge per c• :-it a an.i cont r1nit.1011s

Bequest• and 1nd1vidu~ l eontribut. lone
Loan fro111 bA nl<•

Total Income o.nd Ce.;>1 ta l f~ c • . o'.• - Forw*r<I

34,490. 52 $

8,840 . )6

$

J!l .!i't01~2

i

l '.~22.8~
io::~J .I:

•

109,J)B.5 0
Z/2 ,544 ,70

•

i

22'.Z.Q!l'.Z,60

$

596,SJ0. 08

505,1,99, 47
!!ji,3Jl.Jl
2§2 .2lQ.28

7,349,70
l2 , J.2l 1:z2

8tr7 . 21
10, 121.§lt
;g,022. 02

i

;F~ 1 2QJi. iiO

~ . JJ6.~

j

• ~=~:ni:~ '•
•
•
22.~1.i.2

' Jul,l2J .OO

128 ,7)6 .12
J!i8 1QQO.OO

~

'

17 , 2)) . 20
265,868.9 4
2§1,Qlii·l l

)0,, 23 $.00

180 ~ 2J; . J6

Ll~~ 2~.00

' n1 ,es2.12 $2 11 8 :2 .36
~·:i.2~1 , 6~2·2'l

i :.. ~1 . 90~. Q2

so

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETA RY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A M. of California:

GR.lMD LOOOE F. & A.II. OF CALIFOR.~U

I have the honor to present to you herewith my Eighteenth Annual
Report as your Grand Secretary.

AllD AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
SUMMARY or RECEIPTS AND DISBlJRS~TS -

COMPARATIVE

DATES AS SllOWN

YEAR EllDFJl
JUNE 30 , 1958

YEAR ENDED
JUllE JO, 1959
Total Income and C&pital Receipts - Forwrd

I J .1a1.6J7, 59 l4,501 .90J.02

EX.PENSE D!SBURS:l!EllTS:
Grand Lodge:
Opera ting expense
Masonic Homes - General Fundt
Operation of Homes a.nd outside relie!
Adminiatrative a nd general expens e
Retirement income pl.an

$

305,902.23

I

?74 .842.83

I

805,6o4.70 I
108,502. 82

742, 764.04
90, 951.20

$

2!.t!.t ,262.22

$

J,556.50 $
1,378.96
20 ,226 .zo
22.212. 16 I

~0 ,261.81

Muonic Homea - End.owoent and Trust Fundu.
Scholarshi ps
Kacellineoua
~1t..hdrawn b~ residents

~

Me~orial Temple:

Administ ra tive and general expense
K~T~rial Templ e operations

'

$
Total Operating Expens es

'

167 ,Jll. 25 $
6s ,2;io , 21t
2:l2,§!.t1.z2 $

2:l,~!.t· 02

827,2§2.22
5,n8.?0
1 ,494, 24
20 ,g2 .s~

n.1:i10.zz
76,143 , 27
12,2 :l ~·28

21,670.02

$1,s12,022.51 $1,261,229.74

RXP~SES CHARGED 10 RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES:

H.!\sonie Homes :
Re placements to Homes
Funeral expense
Entertainment axpenae
Grants to residents
Mis eellaneous

'
'

To tal hpen.ses

NET INCREASE IN CAPITAL
The !oregoing net increaee 1n ca ital d

119,875. 23 ~
7,561. 23
11,492. lJ
51, 504 .00
12, 002.zo
210 ,?:!.t2 .22

'

38, 906. 69
7 ,662 . 21
l J , 791.65
50,616.00
11 , 262.;22
122,2!.tHrl

$1,220 . 067.8'.l $1,282 ·22 ~ . 61

Eli;c••• of Receipts over Disburs ements
~I . Loan !ram banlcs - M<llllorial Templ e

·

7ear ended June JO, 1958 is accounted for ~. foll~:O~g

tii

12,051,569,79
~!.tS,000 1 00

IJ, 118, 129.U
1, 6~2 .290.00

$1,203 56 9 79

~ 1 , 462 339 1:1

e 7ear ended June JO, 1959, and

JUNE 30 , l 9S9 JUl\l', 30 1 19 ~8
Increase in caeh on deposit in banks
.
Increase in securities owned
Increase in buildings and equipment
Increase or (decreas e ) in miseell.Juieoue assets net
,
k!!: I ncrease: i n loan from b&nlc:s, net.
NKT INCHEASE I.N CAPITAL, AS Al!DVE

51

•

205, 393.40
002, ?20. 34

~

366, 21 5.97
652,502 . 00
2,081, 720, 56
(14 , 808. 83 )
17 , 690. eo
(108 , 000. 00) (l, 6 55, 790 , 00
818,264.88

U,703 569.79 1~.J.l

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one :
1. History Program , page 201. 1958 Proceedings .
2. Far West Ban . page 232, 1958 Proceedings .
3. Jurisdiction of Tehachapi, page 232, 1958 Proceedings .
1. Cemetery Recommend ations, pages 251 and 287, 1958 Proceedings.
5. Special Report on Clubhouses, page 287, 1958 Proceedings.
6. Recommend ation of Committee on Commercial ism, page 289,
1958 Proceedings .
CHANGE OF MEETING PLACE

Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511 has changed its meeting place from
Sunnyvale to Cupertino. York Lodge No. 423 has changed its meeUng
place from Los Angeles to South Gate. Rim of the World Lodge No.
711 has changed its meeting place from Lake Arrowhead to Twin Peaks.
EI Rancho Lodge No. 759 has changed its meeting place from Whi ttier
to Pico Rivera. Vermont Square Lodge No. 515 has changed its meeting place from Los Angeles to Inglewood. George E. Tutt Lodge No.
722 has changed its meeting place from Campbell to Los Gatos.
These have been officially approved under the authority of the
Grand Master, and the Grand Secretary now requests authority to
properly endorse their Charters.
LODGES UNDER DIS PENSATION

The following Lodges under dispensation were instituted subsequent
to August I , 1958, and prior to June 30:
Millbrae, Maya, Mt. Wilson, American River and Golden Valley.
Each of these Lodges collected only an equal or a less amount of
dues than the per capita tax, and in accord with precedent the Grand
Master . at our sugges tion, directed that they be not required to pay the
per capita tax. It is respectfully requested that this be approved.
MEMBERSHI P ANALYSIS

Again as in past years I present an analysis of the applications for
Degrees accepted during the year. As far as possible the same standards were used for arriving at the occupations , and it is interesting to
note the changes over last year.

52

Occupat ions
Professio nal
Executiv e
Sales & Clerical
Skilled Craftsme n
Armed Forces
Retired
Police & Firemen
Public Utilities
Governm ent Service
Student
Farmer

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1958

1959

15%
20%
13%
33%
6%
1%
3%
3%
2%
2%
2%

12%
14%
20%
36 %
5%
1%
3%
1%
2%
2%
1%

Age Groups
21-29
30-39
40-19
50-59
60 and over

1958

1959

12%
11%
35%
10%
2%

17%
37%
30%
13%
3%

MEMBERSHIP
The review of our members hip experien ce as publishe d in my last
report for the past several years, and particula rly last year, has caused
much concern in some circles. This is especially true as it relates to the
net gain which has decrease d annually from 6,025 in 1951 to 2,474
in 1959.
A number of people have expresse d anxiety that Masonic membership is not keeping pace with the growth in state populatio n, but I
believe there are a number of factors to which attention should be
directed which are reasons why I do not express the same grave concern.
We are told that about 400,000 new inhabitan ts come into Californ ia
annually . These range in age from babies in arms to old people in
wheelcha irs. A very large percenta ge are older people who have come
to Californ ia to retire or have come here to later qualify for the high
state old age assistanc e. These people are not candidat es for Freemasonry .
All of the women and girls must be eliminated, and there are other
large percenta ges whose own religious advisors prohibit them from
applying for the Degrees of Masonry even though Masonry itself has
no such prohibiti on. All men under 21 years of age must be eliminate d
for any given year. Non-Cau casians likewise do not make applicati on to
our Lodges.
There is also that large percenta ge who do not apply for financial
reasons, since our initiation fees are high and our average dues are the
highest of any Grand Lodge in the country.
It should be kept in mind that of the losses incurred 1,270 were by
suspensi on for non-pay ment of dues and 4,219 were lost by death.

53

This latter figure increases year by year as the membership age rises.
There are two other factors which must be kept in mind-na mely,
that a great many men among the newcomers are already Masons from
other states and that we are not a members hip seeking organiza tion.
Taken all in all I think that raising 7,04.7 men in the last fiscal year was
a satisfact ory number. The more importan t achievem ent is that new
Lodges are being formed all the time in various sections of the state,
there having been nine in the year just closed.
1955

1956

1957

1958

1959

New Lodges Formed ..
17
Initiated ........................
8,609
Passed ..........................
8,434
Raised ..........................
8 ,679
Affiliated ..... .............. ...
2,852
Gained by Error..........
5
Reinstat ed ............. .....
383
Withdra wn ................
1.935
Suspend ed for NonPayment of Dues ....
1,053
Suspend ed or
Expelled for Cause..
32
Loss by Error..............
Died ............................
3.676
Number of Member s• 221.887
Dues Remitted ............
3,561
5,223
Gain ..... ................... ...... ......
Number of Lodges ......
653
*Plural Member s
(Include d in total) ..
163

10
8,877
8,111
8.423
2,176

15
8.130
7.954
7,874
2,545

5
7.606
7,542
7,905
2.338

9
7,255
6.946
7.047
2,428

373
1,622

325
1,701

316
1.7li

339
1,806

980

976

1,058

1,270

43
8
3,765
229,738
3.510
1,851
662

29
2
3,669
234,101
3.4.61
1.363
677

42

15

4,087
237,654
3,113
3,553
682

1,219
240,128
3,137
2,174
691

732

1,284

1,275

1,601

54

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

FEES FOR DEGREES
1958
1957
1956
Lodges
No.
No. Lodges No. Lodges
112
107
102
5
5
5
2
2
2
7
8
9

Amount
$ 50.00
55.00
60.00
65.00
70.00
l
75.00
207
80.00
33
85.00
3
90.00
10
95.00
1
100.00
182
105.00
5
110.00
4
115.00
18
120.00
125.00
58
130.00
135.00
140.00
2
150.00
5
175.00
7
215.00
Total Lodges 662
$86.00
Average

1959
No. Lodges
99

5
l

11

I

l

I

189
25
3
14

186

l
195
6
3
23

2
66
l

22
3
15

l

l

201
7
2
27
3
72

208
6
2
32
3
77
l
1
1

3

l
I
2

6
7

6
7

7

2

2

677

682
$88.80

2
691
$89.58

$87.65

ANNUAL DUES
1956
1957
1958
No. Lodges No. Lodges No. Lodges
348
320
249

Amount
$ 12.00
13.00
l
14.00
1
15.00
235
16.00
23
17.00
18.00
52
20.00
24.00
2
25.00
Total Lodges 662
$13.70
A verage

NEW LoDGES

201
27
3

8

7

1959
No. Lodges
188

l

259
27

293
45

316
52

65
2
2

86
4
3

117
10

677

682
$14.45

$13.96

55

3
2
691
$11.91

The following new Lodges were formed during the year:
Millbrae Lodge U.D .. located at Burlingame. Dispensatio n granted
March 23, 1959. The Lodge was instituted May 7, 1959, at South San
Francisco, Right Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer, Senior Grand Warden, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Salvador Orville McDonald
(Master). Carl Frederick Peterson (Senior Warden) , Robert Clair
Olson (Junior Warden), Russell John Arnot, Forrest Elam Brown II,
William Earl Bruce, Alfred Powell Cassidy. Charles Milton Chase.
Carlyle William Corson, Arno Robert Dietel, Mansfield White Garratt, Sr.. Harold David Garrod, Merle Vincent Garth, William Chester
Herr, Neil Allen Honey, Earl Owen Honey. Harold Herbert Highsmith, Arthur Jarde Hansen. Thomas Frederick Hoey, John Walter
Irving, James Walton Bateman, Martin William Kurtz, Clarence Henry
Kerker, Charles Leslie Kuhlman, Robert George Kohler, Melvin Herbert
Lowe, Kenneth Richard Lansdowne, Alex Lans, William Frank Leutenegger, George Leon Mackey, Roger John Marani, William Francis
Mitchell, Clarence Morris Mund, Walter Alfred Parker, Ora Avery
Phillips, Allan Raymond Powers. Jr., Harry Rickson. Albert Leslie
Runkle. Arthur Van Nosdale Scott, Bonnie Carl Snyder, Oscar Carl
Stiller, Leonard Melvin Sweet, Marshall Edgar Ulshoeffer, Gustave
Herman Umland, William Herbert Urbanski, Roman Francis Winkelman, Richard Shepard Watts, Harry DuVal Ballard, Benjamin Carlton
Chapman and Thomas William Wallace Scott.
Maya Lodge U.D., located at Los Angeles. Dispensatio n granted
March 25, 1959. The Lodge was instituted May 7, 1959. at Los Angeles,
Most Worshipful Phil N . Myers, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Aurelio Ernest Gallegos
(Master), Felipe Jaques Najera (Senior Warden), Pedro Antonio
Salazar (Junior Warden) , Frank Zamudio Arcadia, James Bides Barbero, Lynn Andrew Brinkley, Benjamin Esquera Cortez, Jose Carillo
Diaz, Theodore Sotomayor Encinas, Paul Benton Enriquez, Eduardo
Espinoza Flores, Juan Jose Gaitan, Manuel Dominguez Garcia, Manuel
H. Haro, Steven Gonzales Herrera, Antonio Nuno Higuera, Henry
Sandoval Jimenez, John Sanchez Lima. Jose Maria Montoya. Everardo
Martinez Mora. Simon Munoz Oropeza, Eduardo Rodriguez, Milton
Schwartz, Joseph Avalos Vargas, Ignacio Castellanos Velasco, and
Robert Saavedra Castaneda.
Mt. Wilson Lodge U.D., located at Altadena. Dispensatio n granted
March 25, 1959. The Lodge was instituted April 14, 1959, at Altadena,
Most Worshipful Phil N. Myers, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Thurlan William Heidner
(Master) , Alfred Wiener Talley (Senior Warden), Henry McGrath
Welch (Junior Warden), Robert Warren Anderson, Carroll Arthur

56

57

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

Bartsc h. James DeWalt Beam, Hollan d Corder Butterfield, Raymo
nd
Albert Cole, Howar d Leslie Collister. Rex Creed. Charle s Cecil
Davis,
John Dingeldein. Arthur Oliver Dudley , Arthur Earl Du Hamel!, George
Edwar d Enell, George Walte r Ewing , Russell Verno n Fergod a, Marion
Glenn Fisk, James Rando lph Fleming, Morris Lee Grover, Orville
Gerhar d Gryte, Edwar d Woodr ow Hamm ock, Fred Charle s Heintz
.
John Richar d Hicks, Brodie Wilson Hodge s, Harold Phillips
Huls ,
Aram Haig Khazoyam. Bruce Rodne y Lamb, Lawren ce Conne r
Lamb.
George William Larson. Henry Clay Lynn, Frank Paul Marino
, Sylvester Samue l Matthe ws, Claren ce Herma n Morris , Claren ce
Allen
Oakley'. Orley Max Offley, Harry Paul Petrie, Forest King Pullen.
Jay
Don Rmeha rt, Eugen e Jess Robinson, Stephe n Bedros Samerj an.
Jr ..
George Glenn Steven s, Willar d John Stone, Earl Dean Swift.
John
Charle s Symes , John Pope Walke r, John Arthur Warric k,
LeRoy
Ambro se Welsc h and Thoma s Alonzo William s.
Americ an River Lodge U.D .. located at Folsom. Dispen sation
grante d May 14, 1959. The Lodge was institut ed June 6. 1959,
at
Sacram ento, Most Worsh ipful Phil N. Myers, Grand Master , presidi
ng.
The charte r membership is as follows: Walte r Edwar d Moller
(Maste r), Robert Elmer Green (Senio r Warde n) . Alfred Lawren
ce
Prevos t ( Juni?r Warde n) , Horry Jehu Jennings, Lee Roy Hughe s,
Oscar
Th?~as Bevis, John Alfred Baxter , James Edwar
d Wagne r, Milo
W1ll1am Perry, Joseph Hutchi son Wilson , Jr., Hudso n David
Hanawalt, Donald Vande nberg Smith. Jean Bernheim Fletche r, Eugen
e
W~r~en Hall, Stewar t Rodne y Wilcox , Keith Warre
n Jacob, Fred
Wilha m Heeke . Raymo nd Edwar d William s, Jack Roy Porter,
Albert
Bond Salomo n, Fred Allen Swain. Jr., Leslie Roland Gibler,
Earl
Donald Curtis, Nichol as Rando lph Saylor s, Russell Thoma s Belkna
p,
John Franci s Cotters , Willia m Bradfo rd Boone, Andre w Farwel
l Van
Valer, James Scott Lough ridge. Arthur Morton Woods , Willia m
Stado
Staal. Herber t Lee Miller, Jr., Paul Freed LeFevr e, Mitchell
Kass,
Tomm y Dale Cook, George Claren ce Finis, Glen Ira Walde n, Edwar
d
Clifford Luth, Roger Roy Franci s, George Asher Ingrah am, Charle
s
Butler Steele, Ralph Everet t Kruse, Willia m Davids on McGill
. V er!
Porter Hollan d, Harold MacKe nzie Smith, Richar d Hugo Tadew
ald,
Bual Aron Alley and Donald Howar d Heacoc k.
. Golden Valley Lodge U.D., located at San Bernardino. Dispen
sation grante d May 18. 1959. The Lodge was institut ed May 25,
1959,
at San Bernar dino, Most Worsh ipful Phil N. Myers , Grand Master
,
presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Noel Wayn e Roser (Master), Raymo nd Noel Ousley (Senio r Warde n), Henry Frank Puthof
f.
Jr. (Junior Warde n), Joseph Lerma n Ousley. Willia m H arry
Hall.
Augus tine Americo Coricelli. Otto Richard Rehwa ld, Orville
Daniel
Malon e, F. Marion Pribble, Howar d Blain Pasley , Solimondi Coricel
li,

Nels Arthur Soderb erg. Walte r Henry Gundr ed, Wilbu r Henry Teeple
.
Lyle J. Jensen. Conway Mauric e Fische r, Verno n Clark Horton , H
arold
Winfie ld Castle, Herber t Sumne r Roth . Harold Freder ick Bronst
rup.
Robert John Beadle, Georg e Willia m Boyer , William Raymond Gunke
l,
Clifton Bays Vining . Roscoe Charle s Rowley , Lowell Ellswo rth Lathro
p.
Myrle Louis Pagel. Victor Grego ry Sidler, Peter Bonomico Payne,
Norris Verno n Choisn et, Samuel Jesse Hennin ger. Doran Dougla
s
l sgrig, Willia m Jackso n Keown , Walte r Alfred Basse, Orin
Lynn
Coulte r. Harry Austin Pribble, Royal Justice Merryfleld, Ernest Ronald
Zuick, Ralph L. Cross, Donald Devlin, Howar d Makho lm Farme
r,
Allen Lee Haens zel. Elmer Evert Green. Max Penlan d Cruzen .
Courtney W. Short, Louis James Alexak is, Davis Frank Henley . John George
Zaharopoulos. Angelu s L. Alexakis and Christo pher Wade.
Tila Pass Lodge U.D., located at Los Angeles. Dispen sation granted
June 17, 1959. The Lodge was institut ed July 30, 1959. Most Worsh
ipful Phil N. Myers , presiding.
The charte r membership is as follows : Leo Joseph Wilson (Mast er).
Milton Meyer Loeserman (Senio r Warde n). Henry ~alte~ Robbin
s
(Junio r Warde n). John Ansoo rian, Paul Sansom Bacht, lrvm Barnet
t
Beckham. Nicola s Buenav entura, Claude Canad a, Charle s Herma
n
Caro, Albert Ceplai r, Robert Cowan , Edwin Dawso n, Segund o Saman
iego Dayrit, Juan Franci sco Delara , John Orenci a Fango n_. Samue
l
Tinsle y Flower s, Morris Grody , Manue l Hoffman, Robert Kmg,
Ben,
;amin Osamu Kondo, Samue l Albert Lieberman. Cayeta no Romer
o
Ligot, Willia m James Samuel Lockha rt, Pedro Lorenzo ~angrobang
.
Adolph Quesa da Mesa, Marga rito Mireles, Ra~ph Gabn~l Pollo~k
.
Manue l Parra Range l, Irving Roth . Norma n Stemore. Alvm S.
Sehk.
and Miner Kenne dy Stout.
LIPE MEMBE RSHIP

Increas ing fee: Corint hian No. 9, to $500.00; King Davids No.
209.
to $500.00; Evergreen No. 259. to $375.00; Southe rn Califor nia No.
278 .
to $375.00; Liberty No. 299. to $350.00; South Gate No. 320. to $400.0
0;
Whitti er No. 323, to $400.00: Fruitva le No. 336. to $375.00; El Centro
No. 384. to $375.00; San Franci sco No. 360, to $375.0 0: Arling ton
No.
414 to $375.00; Claren ce F. Smith No. 482, to $420.00; Patters
on No.
488: to $500.00; Coven ant No. 527, to $500.00; Beverl y H ills No.
528.
to $315.00: Seal Rock No. 536, to $375.00; Militar y Service No.
570.
to $375.00; Service No. 594, to $350.00; Neptun e No. 619, to $335.0
0:
La Habra No. 659, to $325.00; Modes to No. 675, to $325.00.
Rescin ding fee: Phoeni x No. 178.
DISPEN SATION S ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Union
No. 58; Pluma s No. 60: Valley No. 135; Lassen No. 149; Harmo ny
No.
161; Buckeye No. 195; Fresno No. 247; Pasade na No. 272; Santa
Mon-

58

59

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO l.OOGE OF CALIFORNI A

ica No. 307; Alisa) No. 321; Berkeley No. 363; Gardena No. 372: West
Los Angeles No. 373; Torrance No. 447; Seaport No. 550; Manchest er
No. 585; Garden Grove No. 586; Grizzly No. 601; Dimond No. 603;
Florence No. 649; Lake Tahoe No. 707; Golden Bowl No. 755; San
Dieguito No. 775; Sierra No. 788; Oak Plains No. 789.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Schofield No. 443;
Polaris No. 730; Merced No. 749.
To receive and act upon the application of a rejected Candidate
within twelve months: Canby Cross No. 679.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: Friendshi p
No. 210; Garvanza No. 492; Los Cerritos No. 674: Oak Plains No. 789.
Special permisison for conferring of degrees: La Parfaite Union
No. 17; East Gate No. 290; Clovis No. 417; America No. 475; San
Gabriel No. 546; West Adams No. 565; Larchmon t No. 614 ; Truth No.
628.
Miscellaneous: E ast San Diego No. 561.

Pomona No. 246, to $20.00; Welcome No. 255, to $18.00; Evergreen
No. 259, to $18.00: Arroyo No. 274, to $15.00; Hanford No. 279, to
$18.00; Paso Robles No. 286, to $15.00; Dunsmuir No. 297, to ~15.00;
South Gate No. 320, to $18.00; Whittier No. 323, to $16.00; Covma No.
334, to $15.00; Fruitvale No. 336, to $18.00; Golden State No. 358, to
$18.00; San Francisco No. 360, to $18.00; West Los Angeles No. 373,
to $17.00; Artesia No. 377, to $15.00; El Centro No. 384, to $_18.00;
Coalinga No. 387, to $15.00; East Belt No. 391, to $15.00; Arlmgton
No. 414 , to $18.00: Clovis No. 417, to $15.00; Upland No. 419, to
$15.00: Chino Valley No. 427, to $16.00; Alpha No. 431, to $15.00'.
Montebell o No. 451. to $16.00: Morgan Hill No. 463, to $15.00; Ma~1
No. 472, to $16.00; Clarence F. Smith No. 482, to $20.00; Caledonia
No. 486, to $18.00; Patterson No. 488, to $18.00; Garvanza No. 492,
to $15.00; Point No. 503, to $15.00; Joppa No. 508, to $15.00; Cupertino No. 510, to $15.00; Sunnyvale No. 511 , to $18.00; La Jolla No. 518.
to $15.00: Bellflower No. 523, to $15.00; Beverly Hills No. 528 , to
$15.00; Alexandri a No. 531. to $18.00; Forest Hill No. 534, to $18.00;
Alexande r Hamilton No. 535, to $20.00; Seal Rock No. 536, to $18.00;
Utopia No. 537, to $16.00; Queen Beach No. 540, to $15.00: Semper
Virens No. 552 , to $18 .00; Military Service No. 570, to $18.00; S. W.
Hackett No. 574. to $15.00; El C ajon Valley No. 576, to $15.~;
Sunnyside No. 577. to $15.00; Progressiv e No. 578, to $15.00; Securtty
No. 581, to $18.00; Wasco No. 583, to $18.00; Tujunga No. 592, to
$15 .00; Service No. 594, to $16.00; Pearl Harbor No. 598, to ~15.00;
Lynwood No. 600, to $18.00; Temple City No. 612, to $15.00;_Big Bear
Lake No. 617, to $20.00; Neptune No. 619. to $16.00; Fortitude No.
624 to $18.00; Poinsettia No. 633, to $18.00; Composite No. 639, to
$15:00; James A. Foshay No. 641. to $15.00; Florence No. 649, to
$18.00; La Brea No. 650. to $18.00: Crescenta Valley No. 652. to
$25.00; Fontana No. 653, to $15.00; La Habra No. 659, to $15.00:
Kaweah No. 665, to $15.00; Modesto No. 675, to $15.00: Dos Palos
No. 681. to $18.00; Trana No. 684, to $15.00; Indian Wells Valley No.
691. to $17.00; Crossroad s No. 696, to $15.00; Lorenzo No. 709, to
$15.00; Wayfarer No. 717, to $15.00; Arvin No. 738, to $20.00; Morningside Park No. 742. to $15.00; Mother Colony No. 750, to $15.00;
S a n Pablo No. 754, to $15.00; Golden Bowl No. 755, to $15.00; Lakeside No. 760, to $15.00; Lake Chabot No. 770, to $18.00; San Diequito
No. 775, to $15.00; Leland Stanford No. 784, to $18.00; Sierra No. 788.
to $18.00.

AMENDME NTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees : Corinthia n No. 9, to $75.00: Washingt on No. 20.
to $125.00; Sacramen to No. 40, to $100.00; Natoma No. 64, to $100.00;
Wilmingt on No. 198, to $125.00; King Davids No. 209, to $100.00;
Pomona No. 246, to $115.00; Arroyo No. 274, to $65.00; Hollenbec k
No. 319. to $100.00; Covina No. 334, to $115.00; Golden State No. 358,
to $125.00; Gardena No. 372, to $125.00; Fillmore No. 379, to $100.00:
El Centro N o. 384. to $125.00; Upland No. 419, to $75.00; Chino
Valley No. 427, to $65.00; Delta No. 471, to $100.00; Sunnyvale No.
511, to $115.00; Queen Beach No. 540, to $100.00; Plymouth No. 560,
to $90.00; Temple City No. 612, to $100.00; Fontana No. 653, to
$125.00; San Clemente No. 671, to $100.00; Crossroad s No. 696, to
$1l5.00; San Dieguito No. 775, to $90.00; Leland Stanford No. 784, to
$100.00.
Decreasing fees: Arcata No. I 06, to $75.00; Unity No. 368, to
$100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Sunnyvale No. 511. to $10.00
Fixing affiliation fee: Sierra No. 788, at $25.00.
Decreasin g affiliation fee : Tujunga No. 592, to $5.00.
Rescindin g affiliation fee: Pomona No. 246; Montebell o No. 451.
Increasing dues: Corinthia n No. 9. to $18.00; Golden Gate No. 30.
to $15.00; Natoma No. 64, to $15.00; Lexington No. 104, to $16.00;
Sincerity No. 132, to $18.00; Molino No. 150, to $15.00; Phoenix No.
178. to $16.00; Northern Light No. 190, to $15.00; Truckee No. 200.
to $20.00; King Davids No. 209. to $15.00; South San Francisco No.
212, to $15.00; San Buenaven tura No. 214, to $18.00; Doric No. 216, to
$18.00; Monterey No. 217, to $20.00; Mosaic No. 218, to $18.00;

Decreasin g dues: Pomona No. 246, to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Santa Rosa No. 57; Y osem_ite
No. 99; Table Mountain No. 124; Silver Gate No. 296; Santa Momca
No. 307; Redondo No. 328; San Bernardin o No. 348; Hollywoo d No.
355; West Los Angeles No. 373; Fillmore No. 379; York No. 423;

60

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Argonaut No. 461; Clarence F. Smith No. 482; Seaside No. 504; Sunnyvale No. 511 ; Palms No. 512; Sunrise No. 522: Utopia No 0 537.
James A. Garfleld No. 566; Alexander Graham Bell No. 595; Poin~
Loma No. 620; Metropolitan No. 646; Damascus No. 648; Dos Palos
No. 681; Crossroa ds No. 696; Anacapa No. 710; Tyre No. 741; Merced
No. 749; Southern California Research.
N Changing. time of Stated Meeting: Stanislaus No. 206; Fruitvale
~· 336; Unity No. 368; Coalinga No. 387; Culver City No 467·
'
·
Highland No. 748.
Fixing Time of Stated Meeting: Carpinteria No. Hi.
N
Provision for legal holidays: Woodland No 156· w·1 · t
198; Stanislaus No. 206; Chino Valley No. 427; Belv:der: N~~g5~~- o.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Wilmington No. 198; Lompoc
No. 262; Sou.them California No. 278; Orange Grove No. 293; Presidio
N_o. 354; Millbrae U .D.; Maya U.D.; Mt. Wilson U.D.; American
River U.D.; Golden Valley U.D.; Tila Pass U .D.
Re Charity Committee: Fidelity No. l 20; Wilmington No. l 98;
Canoga No. 61 l .
RESOLUTIONS

Change ~f Meeting Place: Corinthian No. 9; Phoenix No. 178;
San Bernardino No. 348; Arlington No. 414; Elysian No. 418; York
No. 423; M~unt Oso No. 460; Argonaut No. 461: Clarence P. Smith No.
482; C~pertmo No. 510; Sunnyvale No. 511 ; Vermont Square No. 515·
Searchl.1ght .No. 567; Progressive No. 578; Alexander Graham Bell No'.
595; Riverside No. 635; Metropolitan No. 646; Damascus No. 648;
Kaweah No. 665; Ana~apa No. 710; Rim of the World No. 71 l; George
E. Tutt No. 722; Oasis of Mara No. 735; Morningside Park No. 742·
'
El Rancho No. 759.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

61

TRIAL REroRDs

No. l 234-Petition for restoration. A member of Fidelity Lodge No.
120. Expelled December 7, 1950.
No. 1349- Petition for restoration. A member of Seafaring Lodge No.
708. Expelled July 1. 1953.
No. 1407-Petition for restoration. A member of Bixby Knolls Lodge
No. 699. Expelled August 4, 1954.
No. 1465-Petition for restoration . A member of East San Diego Lodge
No. 561 . Expelled August 4, 1955.
No. 1477-( Retrial) . A member of Park Lodge No. 449. Acquitted
May 7, 1959.
No. 1483-Petition for Restoration. A member of Damascus Lodge
No. 648. Expelled January 9, 1956.
No. 1485- Petition for restoration. A member of Normal Heights
Lodge No. 632. Expelled March 1, 1956.
No. 1498-Petition for restoration. A member of Lebanon Lodge No.
495. Expelled May l , l 956.
No. 1517-(Retrial). A member of Woodbridge Lodge No. 131.
Acquitted January 8, 1959.
No. l 525-( Retrial). A member of Barstow Lodge No. 682. Suspended June 5, 195~
No. 1554-( Retrial). A member of Mendocino Lodge No. 179. Expelled September 14, 1957.
No. 1558-(Retrial) . A member of Amity Lodge No. 370. Expelled
March 6. 1959.
No. 1562- Petition for restoration. A member of Normal Heights
Lodge No. 632. Suspended December 2, 1957.
No. 1568-(Retrial). A member of Antioch Lodge No. 175. Suspended
February 7, 1958.
No. 1570--(Retrial). A member of Patterson Lodge No. 488. Acquitted June 12, 1958.
No. 1575-(Retrial) . A member of Redlands Lodge No. 300. Expelled June 1. 1959.
No. 1576-( Retrial). A member of Ferndale Lodge No. 193. Expelled April 14, 1958.
No. 1578-(Retrial). A member of Richmond Lodge No. 375. Reprimand April 7, 1958.
No. 1584-(Retrial). A member of Security Lodge No. 581. Expelled
March 2, 1959.
No. 1590-(Retrial) . A member of Oriental Lodge No. 144. Expelled
March 3, 1959.
No. 1591 - (Retrial). A member of Bell Lodge No. 483. Suspended
December 4, 1958.

62

63

PROC EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

No. 1595-(Re trial). A member of Loyalty Lodge No. 529. Expelled
November 5, 1957.
No. 1599-A member of Palms Lodge No. 512. Suspende d September
4. 1958.
No. 1600-A member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30. Expelled March
7, 1959.
No. 1601-(Re trial). A member of Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481.
Expelled April 6, 1959.
No. 1602-A member of Selma Lodge No. 277. Expelled September
10. 1958.
No. 1605-A member of Mizpah Lodge No. 378. Expelled September
8. 1958.
No. 1606-A member of Channel Lodge No. 757. Expelled October
3, 1958.
No. 1607-A member of Fellowship Lodge No. 480. Reprimand September 2, 1958.
No. 1608-A member of Lassen Lodge No. 149. Expelled October
14, 1958.
No. 1609-A member of Point Lodge No. 503. Expelled October 3,
1958.
No. 1610-A member of Oceanside Lodge No. 381. Suspended October 6, 1958.
No. 1611-A member of Guardian Lodge No. 596. Expelled November
7, 1958.
No. 1612-A member of Washingt on Lodge No. 20. Expelled November 6, 1958.
No. 1613-A member of Service Lodge No. 594. Suspended November
7, 1958.
No. 1614-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Reprimand November 4, 1958.
No. 1615-A member of El Cerrito Lodge No. 705. Expelled January
6, 1959.
No. 1616-A member of Oroville Lodge No. 103. Expelled February
3, 1959.
No. 1617-A member of Redlands Lodge No. 300. Expelled February
2. 1959.
No. 1618-A member of Bakersfield Lodge No. 224. Expelled February 5, 1959.
No. 1619-A member of Mission Lodge No. 169. Expelled February
4, 1959.
No. 1620-A member of Apollo Lodge No. 396. Expelled February
3, 1959.
No. 1621-A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled February
5. 1959.

No. 1622- A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Expelled April
6. 1959.
No. 1623- A member of Norwalk Lodge No. 315. Expelled March
3. 1959.
No. 1624-A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Expelled May
7, 1959.
No. 1625-A member of Normal Heights Lodge No. 632. Expelled
April 6, 1959.
No. 1626-A member of Fairfax Lodge No. 556. Expelled May 7. 1959.
No. 1627-A member of Clovis Lodge No. 417. Expelled May 14, 1959.
No. 1628-A member of Ashlar Lodge No.306. Expelled March 5,
1959.
No. 1629- An Entered Apprentic e of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Suspended June 5, 1959.
No. 1630-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled June 12.
1959.
No. 1631-A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Expelled July 6.
1959.
No. 1632-A member of Arcata Lodge No. 106. Expelled July 6, 1959.
No. 1633-A member of Canoga Lodge No. 611. Suspende d May 1.
1959.
No. 1634-A member of Mosaic Lodge No. 218. Suspende d April 1.
1959.
No. 1635-A member of Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569. Expelled
August 6. 1959.
No. 1636-A member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397. Expelled August
5. 1959.
No. 1637-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421. Expelled July 1.
1959.
No. 1638-A member of an Illinois Lodge. Suspende d May 1. 1959.
No. 1639-A member of an Iowa Lodge. Expelled March 4. 1959.
No. 1640-A member of Elysian Lodge No. 418. Expelled May 7, 1959.
No. 1641-A member of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled September
1. 1959
No. J 642-A member of Service Lodge No. 594. Expelled Septembe r
4, 1959.

65

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

64

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

FIFTY YEAR BlITI'ONS
Issued September 1, 1958 through August 31, 1959-513
Issued to Date - 6299
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OF RAISING

~bens,~\lliam~~· Hillcrest No. 573..·-············-··-················-···January 31. 1903

Ale:~~de/f;e;~r ee~an~~ll.NChi~~2N~···fr·· ..········································February 23. 1909
Allen, Henr F.~EI Dorado No 2 . 1.............................- .•......... 0ctober 24. 1908
And
kW
· 6······················································December 9, 1908
A /rson,
B illiam. Selma No. 277.............................................. May 22, 1908
~dcrsoH, R o ,B alder No. 393............................. - ............................. April 23, 1909
And~~ns~n. oA~drr::lp'., ~;;~:i~·-N;;·····2··········· ····························-···0atober 2, 1908
Andross, Albert Kni ht, Corinthian No".~ 5·······························-········-June 2• l909
Arnold, Robert Par!ior, Berkele No. 36···········-······························-July 23• l907
A .· J h c
I C
Y
3......................·--···············February 25, 1909
Austin, Ed n . oHe y, orona No. 32·L·················- ········-·····················August 27, 1903
A very, M
F enry ~e, Mizpah No. 378...................................... November 27, 1907
yers, e er orest,
1 No. 256 ...................................................... 0ctober 8, 1908

loff

lbm

Bacigalupi. T adini Joseph, Speranza Italiana No. 219.............- ............0ctober 30, 1908
Baerthlein, Sr., Albert Willlam. Pentalpha No. 202............................ December 8. 1908
~:%<s, Jctn t'1oime_r ~-· San Bernardino No. 348................. - ....... March 16, 1908
B her, C ares wm, layNo.10l... ................................................. September211907
Bark am,R ouwey L., Hillcrest No. 573................................................ May 24, 1905'
Bar er, Goy
.p Upland No. 419 .......................................................... March 6, 1909
Barnes, Feo·;lE ettisHColusa No. 240........................ ·-··-···················April 3, 1909
Barnett,·..//
LestE umboldt No. 79 ... ·-·····························-·············March 23, 1909
Barrett, Wa 1ter H nterprise No. 70..... - ............................................. February Ii, 1903
Barret\v i11 lam enry, Pinole No. 353.............- ........................... May 4, 1909
Baths, Lrren Wallace, Callayomi No. 282.......................- ...........::::April 17, 1909
Ba~a~h _loyd ~rthur, Chico No. 111............................................ ........ February 13, 1909
Be
eunr;;
ayne Ellsworth, Canoga No. 611.. .......................... 1899
B~r. Fr~dericr~r~~~~.t ra~· jJ;;~~-N~:·226··································· .. ·····MFearbruchar1y2'271900
191V\
Behrendt, Geor e \.Valter, Ma nolia No 2..........................................
' ~
Bellman, Lloyd9Everille, Seafa~in No i0842...................................... January 26, 1905
Belser, Paul A. Amit N
g
.
·-·······································June 19, 1907
Benz, Carl Doi~. Pent~! h~· {/~··2oi
March 19, 1909
Bel'telson, Peder Beier, trockctt No. "j3····································· ·············July 13• l909
Bertelsen, Werner, Hills Ferr No 2 9···············································-luly 24 • 1907
Bickford, Joseph Arthur, Penrh n No ~s··············································Marc.h 26, l909
Bl kf d W 1 S
Y
•
8.....- ..................................... February 6, 1909
B\ or H a tA Icot:, P~hNn No. 258 .... ·-··············- ·--···················February 6. 1909
B;~h~. Cha~les.Er~;t: Porte~iII~lN~..'.f"······-··············- ···············December 5, 1908
Biscailuz, Eugene Warren, West Lake N~ 03.........................- ........... December 9, 1908
Blair, Sr .. Frank C., Palos Verdes No. 3 . 392.....................................June 22, 1908
Bl
R
dW I
89............................._........... uly 30, 1909
BoosherR t1'imNn
. ngleside No. 630...................................- .........April 21. 1909
B o\ •
P h o~on, 0cean Park No. 369......................................... ... Novernber 23. 1908
Bodf5•d Hep Aar~, Yosemite No. 99 ..................·-··············-····-···November 7, 1908
Brad orAlb arrA ., ucalytus No. 243......·- ····························-·······0c tober 24. 1908
B~!iJ~r. C:;f·oti~ep~~0Lo~~-N·~·-62o-············· ····················-····.. ····May 8, 1909
Brewer, Edward, East Ba N 4 ·
................................................ February 11. 1903
Brooks, Charles Henr , ~ ;~ac~N·~··32··········································Aprtl 2• 1908

i!

.......................................................

j

Stanf~rd,

38~:~::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::: ::::::~~~:i;::~. 1908
2

Brooks, Charles
EfCentro No:
Brougher, James Whitcomb, Southern Californla No. 278 .................. March 29, 1909
~rown, ~~ude Raymond, Adin No. 250.......................- .....................0ctober 8, 1908
Brown,
orvald, Brooklyn No. 225...........................·-····-···············March 23 1909
&:'ne,J- P .. Anaheim No. 207....·-····-··-····- - ··-··-·-········---····-Jul y 11, 1907
B er, ercy Lybwood, Sunnyside No. 577........................................July 20, 1909
runs, Harry Christian, Hawaiian No. 21......••................••.....- .........December l, 1908

DATE OF RAISl 1'G

Buchanan, Jesse Alvis, Traver No. 294.................- ...............................June 26, 1909
Buerck, Leonard Martin, Eagle Rock No. 422 ...................................... 0ctober 29. 1908
Bull. lngall William, Pentalpha No. 202..............................................April 20, 1909
Bultmann, Harry Edward, Amity No. 370 ............................................ 0ctober 30, lfOJ6
Burgess, Henry Arthur, South Gate No. 320.......................................... December 5. 9
Burnham, True B., Claremont No. 436....... ---··································· November J5, 1906
Byron, William Pete, Welcome No. 255..·-·········-···-·······--·- -····-··April 24, 1 09
Caldwell, Harry Lind, Henry Knox No. 662 ........................................ 0ctober 17, 1908
Campini, Tames W .. El Dorado No. 26...........- ..................................... Septernber 24. 1908
Cannon, Byron Adelbert, Oros! No. 383 ................................................ April 10, 1909
Caubu, William Peter, Golden Gate No. 30 .......................................... May 18. 1909
Chambers, Arthur. John D. Spreckels No. 657 ......................... - ........... March 31. 1909
Chamblin, Clyde Luther, Oakland No. 188.......................................... July 24, 1909
Chandler, William Herman. West Lake No. 392............._................. August 26, 1908
Chapman, Paul Edwin. Durant No. 268................................................ February 19, 1909
Chapman, Robert Henry, Mission No. 169......................................... . September 23, 1908
Chew, Jr., Randall Thorton. Covina No. 334 ........................................ Novem.ber 17. 1908
Christman, Henry Samuel Joseph. Burlingame No. 400..................... .January \ 1909
Clark, Bert, San Bernardino No. 348·- ······································-· ········January 2 , 1906
Clift. Henry N athaniel, Mount Moriah No. 44 ...................................... August 19, 1908
Coffey, George Alva, Tehachapi No. 313 ..............................._............. November 16, 1908
Colen, Arthur Max, Golden West No. 455 ..........................................April 30. 1909
Colen, Lewis Herman, Golden West No. 155...................................... February 25,
Colestock, Harry L., Corona No. 324..................................................December I. 89
Coley, Vern J., Alcatraz No. 244 ..........................................................March 18, 1_9~9
Collins, Charles W., South Gate No. 320............................................ September ' · 908
Collins Hazen Emery. Moneta No. 405 .......................- ....................... March 26, 1909
Combeitack, W . H .• El Dorado No. 26........................·-··············· ······~nuary 9, 19~
Condon W ilbert Shankland, Apollo N o. 396................................... . ovember 30• . 908
Conner' Alfred Woodham, Liberty No. 299·-················-·····················September 26. 1908
Cook. Frank William, Pasadena No. 272 ......................................... ... ..April 20, 1 90~
Courtright, Charles Milton, Rockridge No. 468 .................................... March 13, 19
Coverdale Samuel Waddell, Long Beach No. 327....... _.....................December 12, 1907
Cowles Edd C., Utopia No. 537..........................................................•.December 21. 1907
Crane. 'Floyd Walter, Hollywood No. 355 .......................................... April \190j
Crossman, Roy E verett. Alcatraz No. 244 .....- ..................................... Septem er • 1908
Currie, John Stewart. Mission No. 169.......- ......................................... 0ctober 21 , 1908
Curtis, Guy Seryl, Monterey No. 217 ................................................ Janua;J'. 2, 1907
Cuthbert.son, Harry Fend:ler, Palo Alto No. 316 .. ................................ June 2 • 1909

re:
3

Darst, WUbur Grafton, Temescal No. 314 .......................................... 0 ctober 1. 1908
Davidson, W illiam Creighton. Evergreen No. 259................. - ...........January 8. 1909
Davis, Edwin Ransome, Pcntalpha No. 202............·- - ······-··········-·····July 13, 1909
Dawson, Jay Bosworth, Burlingame No. 400........................................ November
1908
Day, Arthur Chester, Alisa! No. 32 1............................................ ..........June 20, 19
Defty, Emanuel. West Lake No. 392 .................................................. September 21. 1908
Denison, Lon M., Te.hachapi No. 313 ................ _................................ April 9, 1909
Dewar, Frank Milne. Oakland No. 188......................................... .........0ct.ober 17. 1908
Dewhirst, Roy Daniel, Dinuba No. 385................................................ February 27, 1909
De Witt. Richard C., Enterprise No. 70................................................ February 20, 1909
Dickson James Lemuel, Hollenbeck No. 319 ...................................... 0ctober 27, 1908
Dodge, Roy James, Rising Light No. 397 ............................................ May 21, 1907
Dolch, Harry Ernest, Yucaipa No. 726........................................ ........December 21. 1908
Dole, Rowel Alfred. Hammonton No. 433 ..........................................0ctober 24, 1905
Dougall. John Park, Pentalpha No. 202 ................................................ March 30, 1909
Dougall William Wallace, Marin No. 191...................................... ....December 16. 1908
Doyle. John Robert, Unity No. 368...................................................... May 26, 1908
Drake, rred Hugh, San Carlos No. 690................................................ May 6, 1909
Dunaway, Samuel W .• La Jolla No. 518........................................ .... Jan~ary 14, 1909
Duncan, Oscar Antoin, North Hollywood No. 542............- ..........•.... April 17, 1909

5g.

0

66

PRO CEEDINGS O F THE
NA ME AND LODGE

67

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Durgin, Henry James, Fraternity No. 399.- ........................................... September 29, 1908
Dykes, Benjamin Currier, Acorn No. i94............. ...............................April 9, 1909
Eaton, Harry Russell, Gardena No. 372......................................... ....... April 27, 1909
Eckhart, Carl Alexander, Landmark No. 253...................................... November 7, 1908
Edwards. John Arthur, Naval No. 87........................................ ............ November 24, 1908
Eifert, Elmo Everton, South Gate No. 320.......................................... November 12, 1908
E ricksen, Albert Jes, Ashlar N o. 306..... ·---············--···-··--·----------·····-·-·-----January 25, 1909
Bitter, Albert, Porterville No. 303.......................................................... April 2, 1908
Etzel, Theodore Christopher, Durant No. 268 ....................................March 26, 1909
Evans, Rawley W ., Ferndale No. 193................................................ December 4, 1908
Farquhar, Harry Claude, West. Lake No. 392.................................... July 19, 1906
Feller, George W., Palestine No. 351... ..............- ................................. May 11 , 1909
Ferguson, David Walter, West Lake No. 392.................................... November 18, 1908
Fickert, Arthur H .. V esper No. 84 ................................................. .... ..... February 24, 1909
Finch, Walter Elmer, Cahuenga No. 513 .................................. ............ November 21, 1908
Pletcher, Edgar Roy, P arnassus No. 388 .............................................. March 23, 1909
Poorman, Carl Theodore. Lincoln No. 470 .......................................... September 3. 1906
Foster, Luther B., Alexander Hamilton No. 535 ............. ..................... May 21 , 1908
Foster, Sidney H., Alcatraz No. 241 ...................................................... November 21. 1907
Fowler, Hardiman, San Fernando No. 343............... ............................ March 9, 1905
Fowler, Ralph Melvill, Athens No. 228............... ····-----···-···--·····--·-······· November 14. 1908
Frank, H e~bert Louis, Fidelity No. 120...................... .........................October 29, 1908
Fraser, Lovett, Hartley No. 199............................ .... .............................. January 4, 1908
Fraser, \.Villiam F., Alpha No. -131... ..............- ..................................... Februa-ry 26, 1909
Freudenthal. Albert Charles, Amity No. 370............... ...................... July 23, 1909
Friedman, Henry Mandel. Composite No. 639...................................... March 18, 1909
Fuhrman, Arthur John, Unity N-0. 368 .................................................... September 11, 1905
Fullard, James Stanley, Dinuba No. 385 ................................................ July 13, 1909
Fulton, Preston Demreath. South Gate No. 320................................. October 30, 1908
Gallin, William Frederick, Southland N o. 618.................................... September 19, 1908
Gardner, Arthur Jackson, Bakersfield No. 224............................. .........July 7, 1908
Gebhardt, George Bernhardt, East Bay No. 489................................. March 12, 1908
Gerhart, \Villiam Edward, Pentalpha No. 202..................................... September 2, 1908
Gilbert, James, Evergreen No. 259......................................................... May 28, 1909
Gillies, Robert Mitchell, Park No. -149 ................................................. October 27, 1908
Gish, Ralph Mason, Sun Ga rden No. 530................... ..........................June 5, 1907
Glick, Charles, Moneta No. 405......................................... ..................... August 12, 1909
Gockley, Charles Edmunds, Golden State No. 358.............................. February 25, 1909
Goding, Earl George, Delano No. 309........................................ ........... December 23, 1908
Goins, Edwin John, Corona No. 32-1 ..............·-·······---·-·-··----······- ·········July 16, 1908
Goodman, Arthur Ralph, Yerba Buena No. 403.................................... July 29. 1909
Goodwin, Sr., Ca~er K., Lebanon No. 495............. ............................ May 12, 1908
Gordon, Charles Ely, Occidental No. 22..............................................January 25, 1909
Gordon, Robert West, Henry S. Orme No. 458....................................0ctober 16, 1900
Graham, Mark Mac Donald, Marin No. 191.....--··········- ······-···········-June 3, 1908
Grant, Fred B., John D. Spreckels No. 657....·-······-·--·-······-··········-- --March 12, 1907
Grant, William Oscar, G ravel Range No. 59..........·----···--···-··----········· August 5, 1905
Gray, Marion Robert, Southern California No. 278.......................... December 9, 1908
Green, Albert, Arcadia No. 547..............................................................June, 1908
Green, Silas Roy, Inglewood No. 421.................................................... May 3, 1907
Gregory, George Washington Harness, Mizpah No. 378 .................. February 8, 1909
Grice, Robert, McKinley No. 347......................................... ...................June 23, 1909
Griescbe, William Frederick, Durant No. 268......................................January 29, 1909
Grove, Marvin H., Sun Garden No. 530......................................... .......August 17, 1907
Grove, Millard P., Warren G. Harding No. 579 ................................ }anuary 31, 1904
Gunn, Jr.. John William, Amity No. 370..............................................March 26, 1909

NAME ANO LODGE

r·

OAT!! OP RAISING

Hagan. John W ., Oak Grove No. 215 .................................................. April
190-1
Hamilton, Georg_e Hays, Corona No. 324 ..............................................May 3, 1909
Hamlin, Ralph Cunningham, Pentalpha No. 202 ..................................September 22, 1908
Haney, Milton Pavey, Corinthian No. 9 ................................................ February 12, 1908
Ha nsen. Lorenz Henry. King Solomon's No. 260..................................March 15, 1909
Harder, Henry John, South San Francisco No. 2 12.............................. November 12. 1908
Harmon, Ernest Vance, Howard N o. 37......................................... ..... February 15. 1909
Harris, Levi, King Solomon's N o. 260....................................................August 31. 1908
Harris, Morris Louis, Lincoln N o. 470 .................................................... Pebruary 8, 190-1
Harris, Neal, Alisal No. 321 .................................................................... May 2, 1908
Ha rvie, Harold Barr, T ehama No. 3......................................... .............N ovember 24, 1908
H awkins, Edward Charles, Corona No. 324 ......................................... March 28, 1907
Hayden, Clyde Flournoy, Yolo No. 81....._....................... --·-·--············May l, 1909
Hayes. Emmett Lowell, Delano No. 309 ................................................ September 18, 1903
Hayes. William Leete, Tehama No. 3 .................................................... April 21, 1909
H azard, Emil J., San Jose No. 10............................................................ Pebruary 2, 1909
HeBin.gcr, Wesley Arthur, King Solomon's No. 260 ............ ........... .. ... July 27. 1909
H eilmann, Paul Jr., Corinthian No. 9......................................................September 8, 1908
Hempstead, Osmer B., Francis Drake N o. 376.................................... June 2, 1908
Henderson. Paul Douglas, Capital City No. 499 ................ ...............September 15, 1908
Hendrix, Edgar Lorin, Long Beach No. 327.......................................... Pebruary 13, 1909
Henery. W illiam Donaldson. Bay View No. 401. .......................... ... August 2, 1909
Henry, Raymond Manning. Amity N o. 370 ..........................................July 30, 1909
Henscy, Robert Clynton, Santa Paula No. 291... .......................... ......May 6, 1909
Hert:i:mann. Siegmund, Fidelity No. 120................................................ September 17, 1908
Herzog, George Kramer. Doric No. 216................................................~nuary 9, 1902
Heuer, Frank, Burlingame No. 400........................................................ ovember 28, 1908
H ill, Henry Johns, Alpha No. 431.......................................................... March 9, 1909
Hill, W illiam Glover, Reading N o. 254 .................................................. November 17, 1908
Hiller, Henry Fred, California No. !... ................................................. December 29, 1908
Hiller, H erman Franklin, Indian Rock No. 638 ...................................... February 13, 1909
Hirschfelder, Julius Eli, San Buenaventura No. 214......................... ... July 3, 1909
H och, Frank Monro, Point Firmin No. 558............................................ O ctober 26, 1908
Hodge. James Hamilton, Sacramento No. -10...................................... .November 26, 1908
Hodge, John William. Berkeley No. 363.............................................. November 26, 1908
Hoelderle, Emil Albert, Euclid No. 519 ................................................ May 1. 1909
H offman, Fred Otto, East Gate No. 290.............................................. ~nuary 29. 1909
Hollister, Albert Guy, Lompoc N o. 262................................................ ecember 14, 1908
Holson, Dell J., Bakersfield N o. 224 ...................................................... 0ctober 7, 1908
Holston. Charles Thompson, Por-terville No. 303.................................. July I. 1908
Hook, Theodore H., Alamo No. 122...................................................... August 29, 1908
Hoover, Emerson F., John D. Spreckels No. 657..................................July 23, 1909
Hoover, Frank Curtis, Marin No. 191.................................................... Septernber 16, 1908
Hoover, Frederick Wheaton, Yerba Buena No. 403............................ September 2, 1909
Hopkins, Louis Powell, Parnassus No. 388 ............................................ November 24, 1908
Horner, Cla re D., Alpha N o. -13 1... ......................................................... March 18, 1909
Howard, W infield Lee, Yount No. 12.................................................... May 22, 1907
Hudiburg, Alfred, Brooklyn No. 225 ......................................... ............. September 18, 1908
Hudson. Ora James, Sanger No. 316......................................................June 30, 1909
Hughes, Henry Thomas, Hawaiian No. 21.. ......... - ...............................July 22, 1909
H umphreys. Cha rles James, American No. 475 .................................... March 10, 1909
Hunt. Thomas D., Alhambra No. 32L..._............................................ July 30, 1909
Hunter, Joseph Slayton, San Mateo No. 226 ........................................ February 27, 1909
Hurst, Ernest Le Roy, West Lake No. 392......................................... ... November 25, 1908
Ireland. Alfred Pryor, Sacramento No. 40............................................ 0ctober 15, 1908
l:i:e.nour, Harry Frank, Seafaring No. 708·--····-·············-···-··-················November 30, 1908
acobson, John Palls. O ccidental No. 22-·-····-······-···--····--·····-···-···~Y 5, 1909
ameson. fiarry Moore, West Lake No. 392 ........................................ anuary 25, 1909
arrett, Guy Hastings. Santa Cruz No. 38.............................................. ardi. 25, 1909

J

68

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME. AND LODGE.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISI NG

Jesberg, Paul August, Pentalpha No. 202....
.............................. November 24, 1908
ohns. George Wallis, Justice No. 549 .................................................... 0ctober 27, 1908
ohnsen, Wilhelm Magnus, East Bay No. 489..... ................................. February 25, 1909
ohnson, Henry Charles. Corinthian No. 9............................................June 13, 1908
ohnson, James Dixon. Claremont No. 436 ............................................ August 31, 1908
ohnson. Samuel Edgar, Fraternity No. 399 ... ....................................June 19, 1909
ones, Charles Jay, Corona No. 324............................................ ........... May 16, 1908
ones, Humphrey Llewellyn, Burlingame No. 400.......... ................. November 27, 1907
ones. Willard Frederick. Howard No. 37 .... ....................................... June 2, 1908
oseph, Bernard Julius, Starr King No. 344............................................ April 18, 1909
oyce, Denver Lee, Capital City No. 499.................. ..... .................... July 17, 1908
Kelley, George Frank, Truckee No. 200..................... .... .....................June 15, 1908
Kelly, John Joseph, Apollo No. 396....................................... .. ............... April 29, 1909
Kelly, Thomas, Liberty No. 299:............................................ ................ July 21. 1909
Kelly, William Harris, Durant No. 268 .................................................. April 10, 1908
Kelsey, Clarence Earle, Santa Paula No. 291... ..... ....... ........................ July 12, 1907
Kelsey, Dean Stanley, Downey No. 220._....................... .................... August 29, 1907
Kesling, Emmett Cleveland, Golden State No. 358 ........................... ..July 28, 1908
Kidwell, Oscar Gregory, Mizpah No. 378.................. ......................... July 19, 1909
Kilgore, Joseph Roger, Keith No. 187................................................... April 30, 1909
Kingsbaker, Alfred Theodore. West Gate No. 335 .... ........................June 11, 1908
Kinney, Daniel Bates. Woodland No. 156.-...................................... . May 26, 1908
Kivett, Birdest, Henry S. Onne No. 458 ....................................... ........December 16, 1907
Kleinkauf, Samuel E .. Palestine No. 351... ............................................. Septemher 8, 1908
Klossner, John William, Cahue~a No. 513-....................................... November 19, 1908
Knippenberg, Frank Rudolph, ccidental No. 22................ .. .... ...... March 22, 1909
Knippenberg, GcWe Ernest, O ccidental No. 22 .................. ................March 29, 1909
Koehler, Walter
., Chico No. 111..................................................... 1905
Korngut, Samuel E .. Mizpah No. 378 ................................ ........ ............ May 31, 1909
Kos:hland, Adolph, Lincoln No. 470........... ........................................ February 18, 1909
Kreutzer, Alvin Conrad, East Gate No. 290..................... .... ................ March 19, 1909
Krouser, James Joseph, Oxnard No. 341.......................
. .............March 18, 1908
Lakin. Egerton Drew, Palo Alto No. 316..... ......'. .. .......... ............... October 24, 1908
Lance, Dee, Service No. 594............... - .......... .............. ....................... April 20, 19()<)
Lansdon. Charles Henry, Reseda No. 666........................................... March 2, 1905
Lattin. Kelley, Walter, Alhambra No. 322 ....... ........ .......... ............... November 19, 1906
LawlerUohn Jr.• Petaluma No. 180................ . ...... ............................. February 11. 1909
Laws, e.nry Hudson, Santa Rosa No. 57.......... ......... .........................December 31. 1908
Leaman. William Tell, Amity No. 370................................................. July 16, 1909
Leite, Joquin Rodrigues da Silva, Eden No. 113............... ........ 1903
Lerrigo, Francis Richard, Sunset No. 352 ............... ............... .............. July 9, 1908
Levin, Abraham, Doric No. 216................................... ........... .. .... ..April 16, 1908
Lewek, Albert Jacob, Corinthian No. 9....................................... ........March 2, 1908
Lewis. Joseph, York No. 423................................................ .. . ....... February 26. 1909
Lichtenstein. Joy, Fidelity No. 120................................ . .... ............... April 22, 1909
Lillard, Thomas Wilbur, Atheiu No. 228 ............................................. September 19, 1908
Lindsey, Claude Golden, Neptune No. 619-.......... . ...
.......... August 22, 1908
Locks, Carl Henry, Presidio No. 354..........................
.............. May 14, 1908
Look. William Clarence, Hills Ferry No. 236............... .....................December 19. 1908
Lufkin, Harry Roscoe, Bakersfield No. 224............................. ..............October 29, 1908
Lundahl, Victor Nels, Balder No. 393................................. .. ................ April 23, 1909
Lundblad, William Arthur, San Francisco No. 360..... .. .. .. . .......... .August 27, 1908
Lundy, Diaries Albert, Grizzly No. 60L..........- ..................... ..... February 15, 1908
Lyon, Me1vin Edward, Martinez No. 41-........................ ................... Augu.st 25, 1897
Mc.Arron, Charles William Drummond, Crockett No. 139.................. March 17, 1909
McCabe, Carl Demont, Lompoc No. 262·--···--········-- ....- ... - -... Jauuary 15. 1909

NAME. AND LODGE

69
DATE OP RAISING

McCall. William McLellan, Oroville No. 103..... .
. .. January 12, 1909
McCleary, Arthur Burton. Hollywood No. 355........
. ... ........... December 3, 1907
McDonald. Patrick Alexander, Golden Gate No. 30..
................ .. February 29, 1908
McFarland, Thurston, Guadalupe No. 237............. .................... .. ... June 24, 1907
M.cGoweo, Arthur Wayne, Morning Star No. 68 .......... ................... ~une 25, 1908
Mcintosh. George David, Pajaro No. 110......... . .... .... .. .... ................. uoe 29, 1908
McKee, Ernest Maxwell, Humboldt No. 79.-.................................... ..... ecemher 8, 1908
McKinney, Joshua Eugene, Mission Bay No. 771... . ... ... ...
. ....Marc·h 10, 1909
McKlnnie, Charles Earle, Oakland No. 188.......... ... .......................... June 12. 1909
McKinnic, Jesse Lorton. Long Beach No. 327.... ...
............... .... April 23, 1908
McLees, Martin Cornwall, Uodsay No. 416...........
..April 8, 1909
McQuigg. James Mahlon, A.F.E. Irwin No. 645....
......July 14, 1908
McSparrao, Joseph Leroy, Mission Bay No. 771.......... .......... . .. . ..May 18, 1908
MacKellar. William Malcolm, Southern California No. 278 .. ........... July 22, 1908
MacKenzie. Alfred Gordon, Stiver Gate No. 296.......... .......... .. .. ... February 4, 1907
Mackins. Ernest Sydney, Redwood Empire No. 683.........
.. ... November 27. 1908
Maddreo, Harold Hunt. Midway No. 426..................... .... ..
....October 10, 1908
Magill, William Wiodrem, San Francisco No. 360............ ...... ........ March 23. 1909
Maier. Jacob, Hawthorne No. 647 ......................................... ............... February 27, 1908
Maimed. Abraham T utelmao, West Gate No. 335... ... .. ... .......... ... August 11. 1908
Manchester, Ernest, Sao Gorgonio No. 668.-...... ........................ ......... June 11, 1909
Mann. Robert Ernest, San Joaquin No. 19......... .. .....................March 15, 1909
Manne!, George Frederick, Mission No. 169................................_ _ 0ctobe.r 28, 1908
Manners, Herbe'l't &lmund, Sunrise No. 522 ... ............ ................. .... July 15, 1908
Marrack. Reginald B.. Mount Moriah No. H .. .... .... . ......... . ..... August 11 , 1908
Marsden, Samuel A .. Silver Cord No. 505 ........ ......... ....................... .. December 29, 1906
Marshall , James Garfield, Alta Vista No. 464 ... ....................... ......... .. September 8, 1908
Martin, Charles Frank, Caledonia No. 486....... .. ....... .... . .... ......... ... ... February 20, 1909
Martin, Charles P .. Salinas No. 204.- .......................................... .. .. .. April 16, 1908
Martin, Frederick John Charles, Silver Trowel No. 415 ... ................. March 24, 1909
Martin, Jacob L., Taft No. 516 ............... ............................................ .. ... January 12, 1906
Mason, Will Dodge, Golden Gate No. 30........ ............. ......... ..... ........ September 15, 1908
May, Louis, Starr King No. 344 ........................ .. ..................... ..... ... April 28, 1909
Meads, Norman Lan.sing. San Jose No. 10........... ...............................SeptembeT 28, 1908
Merchant, John Frank, Carquioez No. 337............... .. ................. .....May 19, 1909
Merithew, Charles Frederick. East Gate No. 290......................... ...... November 5, 1908
Merrill. Walter I., Charity No. 362......................... .. .. ..... .. ...... ........ November 22, 1907
Merritt, Howard Keighly, Silver Gate No. 296.................................. April 19. 1907
Mertz, ,05iah Streeter, Long Beach No. 327............... .. ................... .... May 23, 1907
Metcal , Ambrose, Burtton, Friendship No. 210......... ....................... .... 0ctober 29, 1908
Meuller, Frank, Pacific No. 136................................... ... ........ ............... September 22, 1908
Millis. James, Alameda No. 167 ................ .............. ....... ...... ................. November 18. 1908
M iner, Frank Earl, Illinoistown No. 51.. ......... ....................................... September 11. 1908
Mitchell, Chester Arthur, Moneta No. 405... ................. ... ................... July 9. 1908
Moodie, Alexander Russell, Taft No. 516 ............................. ................. une 19, 1908
Moodie, Joseph Grove, Golde_n State No. 358............... ....................... un~ 17, 1909
Moore. Crover Cleveland, M1z;pab No. 378 .......................................... April 14, 19()<)
Morrison, Edwin Donaldson, Ocean Park No. 369 ............................ November 10, 1908
Morrison, George William, .Ferndale No. 193......... .. ......... ......... ...... December 4 , 1908
Morrison, Lewi.s John, Liberty No. 299 ................................................ July 17, 1909
Morter, Robert Lee. A. F. E. Irwin No. 645 ............... ..... .................. ... February 17, 1908
Mucnter, Edward, Fairmount No. 435 .......... .. . .......... ......... ..............June 11, 1909
Mullins. Fred James, Crockett No. 139................................... ..... ......... June 9, 1909
Nayer, Carl Frederick, Oceanside No. 381... ...........................- ............ August 22. 1909
Ne!Ust. Frank Fletcher. Humboldt No. 79 ...... ................ ...................... April 20, 19()<)
Nelson. Albert O .. Lamaoda Park No. 627 ... ................. .............. August 8. 1908
Nelson, Harold, Gravel Range No. 59._............................................... July 31, 1909
Nelson. Hugo F. L., Will!ts No. 365...- ................................................ November 19, 1907

70

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NJ\ME /I.ND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OP CA LIFOR N IA
Oii.TE OP RAISING

Nelson, Ma rius, Oak Grove No. 215........................................ ·-····-·····May 6, 1909
Nd son, Sr .. Wilford Royal. Jubilee No. 604 ........................................ July 19, 1907
Nelson, William Orr, Berkeley No. 363................................................ January 23, 1908
Nctz. John Christian, University No. 394 ................................ ............. September 28, 1908
Newark, Gray Edmund, Las Palmas No. 366........................................ January 30, 1908
Newfield, Melvillie Warren. Lodi No. 256.......................................... March 4. 1909
Nicholls, Charles C .. Ontario No. 301.. .................................................. Novemher 25, 1902
Nichols, Walter Edmund, Corona No. 324.......................................... August 3, 1907
Nlghtingale. William Arthur. Naval No. 87.......................................... 0 ctober 8. 1908
Nusbaum, William Walter, Long Beach No. 327................................ April 12, 1907
Ormsbee, Alvin John, Midway No. 426 ................................................ January 18, 1908
Ossenbriigen, Matthias, Emanuel No. 318 ........................... ................. November 25, 1907
Oxley, Arthur Verney, 01.U"ant No. 268................................................ Novembtt 13, 1908
Palmer, John Henry, Mission No. 169 .................................................... Septemher 9, 1908 '
Palmer, William Lee, Chowchilla No. 485 ..................... ............. . ......June 30. 1906
P apst, Ralph Rudolph. Orland No. 265 ...................................... ....... December 4, 1908
Parkman, Harry Leland, Apollo No. 396............................................. April 5, 1909
Paterson. John Edward. Santa Monica No. 307 ...................... ............. May 25. 1908
Patterson, Herbert Clyde, Yerba Buena No. 403 .................................. August 5, 1909
Pedersen, Peder, Parnassus No. 388 ........................... ........................ June 22, 1909
Penniman, Luther Eli, Burlingame No. 400.......................................... June 22. 1909
Perrin, Lewis Edward, H ollenbeck No. 319.............. ... .. . .. . . March 2, 1909
Peterson, Antone Leland, Liberty No. 299................................. June 26, 1909
Peterson, Pritz, Burlingame No. 400............................................... Pebruary 29. 190/l
Peterson, Louis George, Fresno No. 247................................. ........... May 4, 1907
Pfaffenberger, Walter Gladstone, West Lake No. 392................. June 15, 1908
Philbrick, Harold. Morgan Hlll No. 463.............................. ... . .. ... October 29, 1908
Phillips, \~illiam Samuel. San Diego 35 .................... ........................ November 23, 1906
Pierroz, Ferdinand. El Dorado No. 26....................... ........ ................. February 16, 1909
Piltz, Stanley Adolph, Bay View No. 401.. ....... .. .............................. May 27, 1909
Pinson, Le Roy, Enterprise No. 70....................................................... August 8, 1908
Piver, Edward, South San Francisco No. 212 ...... ...... .. . ................ .. October 15, 1908
Poage, Leland Stark, Azusa No. 305 .... ................................... ............ June 10, 1909
Powell, Don St. Clair, Eagle Rock No. 422 .................... ......... ..... . February 25, 1908
Pratt, Roy Allen, Mount Moriah No. 44 ................................................ August 26, 1908
Ptomey, William Henry, Chico No. 111.. ........................................ .. .. August 24, 1908
Raymond, William Austin, Long Beach No. 327 ....................... ....... March 29, 1907
Reed, Everet V .. Seaside No. 504.......................................................... December 3, 1908
Reeder, Frederick Oran, Santa Rosa No. 57.................. .... ...... ........ August 19, 1908
Regan, Harry William, Burlingame No. 100............... ..... ... .. .. ... June 15, 1909
Reid. Thomas M., O cean Park No. 369 ....................... .. .................. September 30, 1908
Reimer, Otto, Parnassus No. 388........................................................ February 9, 1909
Rhine, Albert Aaron, Fidelity No. 120....................................... ... Pebruary 25. 1909
Rice, Carrol McFaydn, Table Mountain No. 124 ................................ Janua.ry 30. 1909
Rice, John Henry, Lodi No. 256 ............................................................ March 9, 1909
Richardson, Bertrand Kidder, Mizpah No. 378 ................. ... ............ August 10, 1908
Rickett, Ario Edward, Bakersfield No. 22'l ..................................... .. April IS. 1909
Ridgway, Walte.r A ., Alamo No. 122............................... ....... ...... June 2. 1906
Rittigstein, Jacob M .. Fidelity No. 120.................................................. July 22, 1909
Rittigstein, Joseph, West Lake No. 392 ................................................ August 10, 1906
Roadhouse, Chester Linwood, Athens No. 22!L. .......................... St-ptember 24, 1908
Roberti, Edward Lincoln, South Gate No. 320.................................... June 13, 1908
...... February 10. 1909
Robertini, Peter Antone, Plumas No. 60.......................... ......
.. ....... July 9, 1908
Rolls, Edwin Lacey, Presidio No. 354.................. .. ..... ..
..... April 17. 1909
Roney. George Allen. Solano No. 229 .......... ·····-·········· ....
Ross, Howard H., Lamanda Purk Nu. 627..... .............................. May 18, 1898
Rossi, Bendetto Francesco, Speranza Italiana No. 219 ........................ A•pril 24, 1908

NAME ANO LODGE

71
Oii.TE OP RAISING

Rowald, William Frederick. Santa Cf\1% No. 38 ................................. May 29. 1908
R.uddy, Thomas Jefferson, Larchmont No. 614..... .. ....................... March 2, 1907
Rudolph, Paul, Fraternity No. 399 ....·-···················· .. ....... .. ............... December 26, 1908
Rutter, William Taylor, Mizpah No. 378...........................................May 24, 1909
Ryan, James Tillman. Educ:ator No. 554 ................................. ...June 29, 1909
SadleT, Alden Howard, Carmelita No. 599.............. ..................... January 16, 1908
Sandles, Martin Curlis, Standard No. i40.... ·-·················· ............ March 15, 1909
Schauer, David Howard, Santa Barbara No. 192.......................... August 13. 1909
Schaur, Heri>ert Martin. Mount Oso No. 460..................................... July 23. 1908
Scheppler, Ernest John, Amity No. 370................ ... ...... ... ... ....... November 27, 1908
Schildknecht, George, Long Beach No. 327 ..................................... February 20, 1908
Sohneidcr, Abraham Nathan. Corinthian No. 9.................................... May 20, 1908
Sclmeider, David Nathan, Corinthian No. 9 ....................................... August 29, 1905
Soott, John Thomas. Burlingame No. 400............................................. February 27, .1909
Seaton, Sr., Stephen Albert, San Marino No. 685 ...... ................. May 5, 1908
Selkirk. Thomas Landells, Mizpah No. 378 .................... ............. ....... November 16. 1908
Sahackleford, Grover Murry, Bakersfield No. 224 ..............................0ctober 22, 1908
Shaffrath, Max, Berkeley No. 363....................................................... March 16, 1907
Shanahan. Maurice, Golden State No. 358 .......................................... February 25, 1909
Sharpe, Otis Allen, Burlingame No. 400.................... .. . ... .. ...... May 9, 1908
.......... ... ...... February 28, 1902
Shork, Fred C., San Clementt No. 671................
Short, Cecl.1 Hackney, Pomona No. 246................................................ April 29, 1909
Shuman, John Franklin, Hillcrest No. 573............................................July 28, 1905
Siegel, Ralph, West Gate No. 335 ..........·--·············-- ························September 17, 1908
Siet'U, Herbert Brooks. Sierra Madre No. i-08............... .................... September 15. 1908
Silver, Levatty, Northern Light No. 190................................................Aprll 10, 1909
Sllverek, Gustaf, Balder No. 393.............- .............................................June 11, 1909
Silverstone, Milton Solomon, Fidelity No. 120.................................... March 22, 1909
Sivertson, Charles Olaf, Woodstock No. '491... ................................... May 28, 1909
Sloop, Fred L., San Fernando No. 3i3................................................ June 8, 1909
Smith, Roy Thornton, Temple City No. 612....................................... March 29, 1909
Smith, Erle Temple, Los Gatos No. 292 ................................................ July 8, 1909
Smith, John William, Los Gato,, No. 292.............................................. June 10, 1909
Smlbh, Robert Ernest, Los Gatos No. 292....................... .... ..... .. ... April 28, 1909
Smith, Willard, Orange Grove No. 293................................ .. ......... .. ... 0ctober 27, 1908
Smith, William Thomas, Mission No. 169.......................................... Augu.st 12, 1908
Sonne, George Peter, Occidental No. 22................................................. August 17, 1908
Sotow, John H., Lexington No. lOL...................................................December 26. 1908
Spott, Paul August. Bay View No. iOl................................................ Marcb 29, 1909
Spring, Arthur Logan. South Pasadena No. 367.................................. March 5, 1909
Steadman, Charles Arthur, Pomona No. 2i6................................ ....... June 26, 1907
Steves, Warren Carlton, St. Helena No. 93--··-································-January 19, 1909
Stewart, Charles W., Delta No. 471.......- ......................................... August 4, 1908
Stinson, Erntst Oaire, Point Finnin No. 558.................................... June 1, 1903
Stokes. John Francis Gray, Hawallan No. 21..._ ...................................December 16, 1908
Stokes, Robert Thomas, Lodi No. 256................................................ November 30. 1908
Story, Archie Edward, Long Beach No. 327........................................Novembcr 26. 1908
Strickler, John Conrad, MJ&slon No. 169.............................................. July 22, 1908
Stromgren, George A., Alcatraz No. 2+i............................................ March 25, 1909
SueMen, John Charles, Crescent No. iS ........................... ....... .......... September 19. 1908
Sund, Russell Henry. Los Gatos No. 292............ ........ ... ........ ...... .July 7. 1908
Sutton, Adam Fisher, Tuscan No. 261... ........................ ....................February 23, 1906
Sweet, Fred· Samuel, Solano No. 229...................................................... March 30, 1903

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

72

73

PROCEEDINGS OF THB
NAME AND LODGE
NAM!!. AND LODGI!.

DATE O P RAISING

Tanner, Robert Wilfred, Hollenbeck No. 319-....................... ........ November 24, 1908
T aylor, George Frank, Redlands No. 300-··--···-·····························November 25, 1908
Thatcher, Bert William, Northern Light No. 190.-........................... April 5, 1909
Thatcher, John Thomas, Northern Light No. 190.•............................ May 8, 1909
Thomas, Roger Ray, Southern California No. 278............................ November 25, 1908
Thompson, Charles Logan. Sliver Gate No. 296................................ March 23. 1909
Toberman, Charles E., Hollywood No. 355.-.....................................July 31. 1908
Tompkins, Carl P., Anaheim No. 207..·-----·-·-······-··········· .................. November 24, 1908
Tonascia, Charles. King David"s No. 209·-····-············ ................... November 7, 1908
Tscharner, Peter J., Azusa No. 305....·--··--············ ........................ .January 12. 1909
Turner, Charles Flavel. West Lake No. 392....................................... Novem':>er 27, 1906

Ziegler, Arthur Herman. Three Pillars No. 613..·-····--··-······-···-···November 21, 1908

Uren, Richard Ernest Foster, Oroville No. 103.................................. Augwt 10, 1909
Van Dings tee, Cornelius. East Gate No. 290..................................... July 20, 1909
Van Epeo, Marius Cornelius, Union No. 58 .................... .................. January 2, 1909
Van Tobe!, Karl William, South Gate No. 320 .... ... . .......... .... ..... June 13, 1908
Veverka, Joseph Frank. Alhambra No. 322........... .... . ... .. ..
... July 1. 1904
Vogt, John H. L .• Vista No. 687.·-··-····-························ ······ .
.. December 22, 1902
Voiles, William Henry, Fruitvale No. 336_........................ ............June 19, 1907
Wahrhaftig, Solomon, Natoma No. 64.................. ....... .. .. .. . ... December 12, 1908
Wakefield. Clark Gardner, San Joaquin No. 19............ .. .. ... ....April 3, 1908
W ;illace. William C larence, Coalinga No. 387...... . . . . .. .......May 12, 1908
Waterman, Stanton Martin, Starr King No. 3H....... ....... . ... June 26, 1907
Watson, T homas Dwnont, Meridian No. 667 .............. ................... November 5, 1902
Weigle. August Matthew, Pomona No. 246.................... ... .... .... ...... April 29, 1909
Weinberger, Jacob, San Diego No. 35 ........._...................................April 21, 1909
Welch, Jr., George Deake, Fruitvale No. 336...
.. ... .... . ... May 15. 1909
W elch, Sylvester. Meridian No. 667 ................................................... October 19, 1907
Westfall, Marshall Elmer, Bakersfield No. 224 ... .............................November 21, 1907
Weston, Paul Eugene, Tehachapi No. 313......................................... August 19, 1909
W haley, Fred Arthur. Vallejo No. 487 .................................... ..... .......July 30, 1908
Wheeler, Royall Walter, America No. 475............................... .......March 20, 1908
Wheeler, William Ashley, South Gate No. 320 ......... .. ...................March 20, 1909
Whitaker, Forrest Marion, Long Beach No. 327 ................ ................ May 31. 1906
White, Charles Corbett, Union No. 58............................................. ... March 24, 1909
White, George Henr?{. Corona No. 324 ....................................... ....... January 2, 1909
Whitehead, George .. Lexington No. lOi ..... -·-···-··············· ....... ....June 3, 1908
Wiley, John James. El Dorado No. 26.......... ................ . ..... ........... April 20, 1909
Willard, Arthur Gay, Sunset No. 352 ... ... ........................................... February 12, 1909
Williams, Richard Griffith Cadwalader, Golden Gate No. 30 .......... June 24, 1909
Wills, Clarence, Alameda No. 167........................·-···········- ······ ....... October 27, 1906
Wilson, Camp Walter, Reseda No. 666 ..................................... ........ February 13, 1906
Wilson, Frank, Sunset No. 352- ··-·······-····· ........................................August 17, 1908
Wilson. George Campbell, W est Los Angeles No. 373.................... March 10, 1909
Wilson, Julian Adolphus. Riverside No. 635·-········-························· December 17, 1904
Winebrenner, T ed, San Fernando No. 343.......................................... June 20, 1906
Winn, George Herbert, Oak Grove No. 215...................................... August 27, 1908
Winnie, Otto Richard, Castro Valley No. 713.................................... February 4. 1908
Wood, William Herbert, Gardena No. 372........................................ - May 4, 1909
Woods, Clifford Ross, Oakwood No. 743..._...................................... May 7, 1908
Woodside, James Elliott, Carquinez No. 337.........................................October 17, 1908
Woodward, Horace R., Presidio No. 354.............................................. 0ctober 29, 1908
Wright, Horace H., Greenleaf No. 670................................................ September 24. 1908
Wyman, Jr., Frank Erving, South Gate No. 320.............................. 0ctobtt 22. 1908

DATE OP RAISING

Yates. James Jackson, Seaport No. 550....·--··············-················· ······July 30, 1908
Yerxa. Charles Woodford. West Lake No. 392................................ June 3, 1908
Yocco, George Henry, Los Gatos No. 292·-····-·································becember 3, 1908
Young, Robert James. Olive Branch No. 269 .. - ................................ March 19. 1909
Youngblood. H. R., Sao Joaquin No. 19·-····························-·-··--··· November 23. 1908
Youngbluth, Fritz A., Anaheim No. 207.·-······································--·January 19, 1906

Referred to the Committee on Segregation .

74

75

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER

ports again show that most of our lodges are in good working condition
and that most of them are actively at work. Some matters have been
disclosed by the reports which require attention, and the Inspectors
will endeavor to see that these matters are corrected.
It is interesting to note that there has been one of the smallest
turnover of Inspectors this year of any year of my service on the Ri tual
Committee. except for last year. In that 10 years. over 180 new Inspectors have been appointed. Only fi fteen Inspectors are still serving who
were in the Corps when I was appointed an Inspector in January, 1941 .
Last Spring, I sent Assistant Grand Lect urer Arthur J. Kahn to
Hawaii, where during a ten-day stay he conducted nine schools for
Inspectors and officers of the various lodges. H is report, and those of
the Inspectors, indicate that we are making real progress in ra ising the
standard of ritual in the Islands.
Two years ago, I expressed concern over the degrees conferred at
so-called Past Masters' night, and I reminded the Masters that they
were responsible for the conferring of all degrees in strict accordance
with the ritual, and that Past Masters were not to be regarded as exceptions. From reports received by members of the Ritual Committee.
it appears that this timely warning has gone unheeded, and that the
Masters are failing to require proficiency from their own Past Masters.
We have heretofore provided controls over degree teams, to assu re the
Masters of their proficiency and adherence to the ritual. These controls
have ha d very salutary effects. We now consider it necessary to suggest
to the Inspectors that they require the Master to hold one or more
rehearsals by the Past Masters with the Officers' Coach of the lodge
prior to conferring any degree on a Past Master's night. If that is unavailing, we would suggest more stringent rules to require conformity
to the r itual on the part of Past Master degree teams.
Section 161 - 10th of the Masonic Code provides that it shall be
the duty of the Inspector "to examine the books and record s of each
lodge to determine if its manner of transacting its business. making its
returns, and paying its Grand Lodge dues conform to our laws, and
shall report to the Grand Master the result thereof at the same time as he
makes his report."
The sufficiency of the Lodge's returns and payment of Grand Lodge
dues is a matter which has been supervised by the Grand Secretary for
many years. and no Inspector to my knowledge has made any such
report to the Grand Master in the last 20 years. I recommend that the
provision should be amended to read as follows: ''To examine the books
and reports of each lodge to determine if its manner of transacting its
business conforms to our laws , and shall report to the Grand Master
any violations of law."
As I have reported in previous years, the Committee has no suggestions whatever for any changes in the esoteric work.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is my seventh annual report, covering the activities of the
Grand Lecturer and those of the Committee on Ritual.
The usual Spring Conferences of Inspectors were held as follows:
Divisions I and 2, at Bijou, Lake Tahoe, June 19-21, 1959, conducted jointly by Worshipful Clare B. Campbell and Worshipful Ralph
M. Foote. Assistant Grand Lecturers.
Division 3, at Guerneville, May 15-17, 1959. conducted by Worshipful Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division 4, at Yosemite, June 5-7, 1959, conducted by Worshipful
Raymond G. Taylor, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division 5, at Ventura, April 17-19, 1959, conducted by Woshipful Donald G. Campbell, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division 6, at Garden Grove, March 20-22, 1959. conducted by
Worshipful W. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
At each of these conferences the work was fully and well done by
Inspectors of the respective Division.
Despite his crowded schedule, the Grand Master was able to be
present for a short time at four of the Conferences. At three of the
Conferences. the Grand Secretary addressed the Inspectors on suggested instruction for Masters and Wardens in Masonic parliamentary
law as related to the conduct of stated meetings. We believe this subject
should be pursued by the Inspectors in their District Associations.
At most of the Conferences meetings of the Ritual Committee were
held to consider matters pertaining to the ritual. A special meeting of the
Committee was also held at San Francisco on November 29th and 30th,
1958, with all members of the Committee present, at which meeting the
entire work of the three degrees was reviewed and performed by the
Assistant Grand Lecturers.
All of las t Saturday was devoted to conducting the annual School
of Instruction for the 172 Inspectors of the jurisdiction. This school,
I believe, demonstrated the high quality of our ritual.
It is with much personal regret that I learn from Assistant Grand
Lecturer Ralph M. Foote that he feels unable to continue as hea d of
Division Two. This kindly brother has served this Grand Lodge
faithfully and efficiently as Inspector and Assistant Grand Lecturer for
more than 37 years, seven of them a s Assistant Grand Lecturer. He has
endeared himself to a ll who have worked with him, and no one can
appreciate more than I do the devotion of Brother Foote to the. ritual.
We hope that he continues to serve Masonry in some capacity.
The annual reports from the Inspectors, required by section 161
of the California Masonic Code, have been received by me. These re-

76

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

In closing. I desire to expre.s s to the Grand Master my personnal
thanks for numerous courtesies throughout the past year, and to the
Grand Secretary and Assistant Gr.and Secretary my continued appreciation for their almost daily assistance; and to you, my brethren, my
thanks for the opportunity of serving you.
Respectfully submitted,
ELBERT

w. DAVIS,

Grand Lecturer
Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

77

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
OF THE MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Sixty-Seventh Annual Report for the year ending June 30, 1959,
together with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes and the
financial reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco, California, on October
3. 1958, for the purpose of organization. The election of Joe L. Shell.
Deputy Grand Master, Alfred F. Breslauer, Senior Grand Warden and
Guy B. Mize, Junfor Grand Warden was formally reported to the Board
and on motion duly made, seconded and carried they were elected members of the Board.
President Wollenberg reported the appointment by the Grand
Master of L. Harold Anderson vice Charles Albert Adams, retired, and
on motion duly made. seconded and carried he was elected a member
of the Board.
President Wollenberg reported the appointment by the Grand
Master of Leo E. Anderson for the unexpired term of Guy B. Mize
and on motion duly made. seconded and carried he was elected a member
of the Board.
President Wollenberg reported the appointment by the Grand
Master of Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., vice Myron E. Smith, retired. and on
motion duly made, seconded and carried he was elected a member of the
Board.
It was moved. seconded and carried that Charles Albert Adams be
elected Trustee Emeritus.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Board is composed of the following Trustees:
Charles M. Woll~nberg ................ 1959............................ Leo E. Anderson
Arthur M . Warren ....................... .1960.............................. Ralph H. Head
L. Harold Anderson ...................... 1961 .................... Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.
Charles Albert Adams, Trustee Emeritus
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Charles M . Wollenberg
was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made. seconded and carried Ralph H. Head was
elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of Grand Lod ge. F.&A.M.
of California, Past Grand Master Edward T. Siems is Treasurer of
Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office a s Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge, F.&A.M.
of California. Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secretary of
Masonic Homes of California.

78

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
FINANCE

You are urged to make a careful study of the financial reports
prepared by our auditors.
In spite of greater endowment income and a small annual increase
from per capita collections due to the rise in overall membership, operating deficits continue to occur.
A survey of the last six fiscal periods discloses four operating deficits
after making allowance for gain on sale of securities. See following
examples:
7/ 31/56
6/ 30/ 57
6/ 30/ 58
6/ 30/ 59
Net deficit ............................ ( 7,884)
(24.796)
( 34,808)
( 32.882)
Gain from sale of securities 85,300
14,839
17,233
109.338
Actual operating deficit ...... ( 93,184)

(39,635)

(52.041)

{ 142,220)

The gain on securities has made it possible to operate without dipping
into the Unappropriated Reserve which is providing most of the funds
for the erection of the new hospital. Without this reserve we would
require an additional per capita for construction purposes.
The Decoto population is at a peak and is continually rising. The
climbing cost of administering to our charges is due primarily to the
impact of higher wages and shorter hours in line with the national
experience of employers. In addition, your trustees have added the
following services, all of which are paid for out of Homes Funds.
1. Retirement plan for employees.
2. Complete medical coverage for residents.
3. Absorption of funeral expense to the extent of $200.00.
4. Extended outside relief program.
5. Absorption of Endowment Fund campaign expense.
6. Absorption of expense of annual Decoto visit during Grand
Lodge week.
7. Allocation of $20.000.00 annually toward services rendered by
Grand Lodge staff.
As you are aware. we are now in the process of erecting a new
hospital facility to replace our existing infirmary. The present area is
not adequate for our Home population and the building itself has been
declared unsatisfactory by State authorities.
The funds for this improvement are in hand. However, it means that
we must sell almost $1.500,000.00 of securities over the next twelve
months. We will lose approximately $60,000.00 in annual revenue from
this source alone. Further. when the hospital is opened next year we
will have to add to our professional staff to meet State requirements.
The area vacated will be converted to additional space for residents
which will automatically increase our Home population. This will also
effect our general payroll.

79

Effective last July I, 1959, our entire Decoto staff was placed upon a
five-day week and corresponding increases in wages were made to meet
salary standards in the East Bay area. This adjustment will increase
our annual expense by $40,000.00 over the last fiscal period.
There has been a gradual decline in the number of new applicants
for Masonic degrees which in turn reduces this source of income. As
you know, the sum of $25.00 is paid into our General Fund by each
applicant for the degrees, as well as each affiliate from outside Jurisdictions.
The rise in expenses and the decrease in revenue means only one
thing. If we are to meet our responsibility and at the same time take care
of the influx of new Home applications, we must have additional funds.
The only source is an increased per capita tax. This has been carefully
considered and after mature deliberation, the Trustees deem it necessary
to request a per capita tax of $1.00 for the support of the Homes to be
levied as of July I , 1960.
This is an increase of 50 cents and is the first time in six years that
we have requested additional monies. When our construction program
is completed and our new facilities are staffed we will have an opportunity to again review our situation.
The Brethren may be assured that the Trustees will not request
more funds than necessary to operate this great Charity which has been
entrusted to their care.
DECOTO

Hospital Facility.
Two hundred and sixty seven acres of land were purchased near
Decoto in the early nineties for the purpose of establishing a Masonic
Home for aged Masons and their wives or widows. The cornerstone for
the first permanent building was laid in 1898. Through the years, as the
demand for space increased and finances were available, additions were
made to the orJginal building and other units added . At the present time,
there are three hundred sixty guests, 77 of whom are hospital patients,
living in these buildings constructed at various periods in the past sixty
years. Despite the age of some of the buildings. an excellent maintenance
program and good care has preserved their livability and use. However,
during the ensuing years, design of institutional homes and hospitals,
construction methods and details, building codes, and required safety
measures have changed greatly. The requirements for safety are now
under the control of the State Department of Social Welfare. the State
Fire Marshal. and the local building inspection department. Periodic
surveys are made by the state and local authorities. particularly when
applications are n:ade for the renewals of the license to operate.
In 1958. the State Department of Health made such a survey and
reported that it would be mandatory upon the Board of Trustees to

80

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

bring the existing hospital up to the minimum requirements of the latest
codes for safety. After a review of the report by the Board and the
Architects, it was concluded. that due to obsolescense, over crowded
conditions, multiplicity of changes necessary, and other requirements
seemingly impossible of accomplishing, the best answer was to select
a site adjacent to the existing kitchen, nurses' home, and main buildings.
and build a new modern hospital facility complying with all codes. The
space which would be vacated when the new hospital was completed
would then be remodeled for bedrooms for which codes and requirements
are not so stringent.
A year ago, the Board of Trustees presented a report on contemplated new construction at the Masonic Home at Decoto. In that report,
a proposed new 131 bed, four story. modern hospital was described in
detail. Today, the new hospital facility is under construction, with concrete work completed to and including the third floor.
The Board of Trustees began a series of conferences with the
Architects in April. 1958, to study the problems at the Home and in
particular the hospital. Five months later, in September, preliminary
drawings were completed and approved by the Board. Final drawings
and bidding documents were completed and approved by the Board and
all governmental agencies in March, 1959. After bids were received from
six selected contracting firms, a contract was signed with the successful
bidder in April and ten days later work was started on a contract for
work to be completed on April 20, 1960. At present, this work would be
on schedule, except for a few days delay due to the teamster's strike
and failure to deliver reinforcing steel.

Additional Fire Safety Requirements
In May of this year, the State Fire Marshal reported certain other
deficiencies which it will be mandatory to correct before the renewal of
the license will be granted. His report stated that the open stairway in
the Administration Building from the first floor to the fourth floor was
a hazard in the event of a fire on the first floor due to smoke and hot
gases rising in the open stair well. The first floor of this unit, has a high
incident of combustible material, particularly in the office, library. and
the parlor. The recommendation given was to enclose the stair with one
hour fire resistive walls, and install class B. metal doors at all floors from
the first to the fourth. From the standpoint of plan, this is almost impossible. The Fire Marshal's alternative was to provide a complete
sprinkler system covering the entire first floor of the Administration
Building and to paint wood wainscots with fire retardant paint. This
alternative, while not without difficulties, appears the simpler and more
economical of the two. The lobby, library, and parlor ceilings are the
exposed and painted concrete structural framing of the floor above. The
sprinkler piping would therefore be in the open. but can be concealed
for appearance's sake in those rooms with new suspended acoustical

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

81

ceiungs. This work is now under study. Before proceeding with t~is
work, the Fire Marshal will be consulted to verify his approval of all
details to meet his minimum requirements.

Requirements of the Department of Social Welfare
Another mandatory requirement by the State Department of Social
Welfare was to install a complete communication system from a central
station in the first floor office to each room in the existing buildings. In
an emergency, each room in the building can then call the office and the
office can communicate with the room. A large board in the office will
register the calls from any room. This signal system is now being
planned, measured drawings have been made of existing rooms, and
bids will be received soon.
Another requirement was to provide an auxiliary lighting system for
stairs and corridors in all buildings in case of emergency. This involves
considerable new wiring. The diesel plant for the hospital would supply
the power.
General
The present hospital contract includes some additional work in the
old buildings. A required new fire alarm system for all of the old units
is in the contract and will be installed. A new stainless steel hood over
kitchen ranges with new fan, filters, and stacks will be installed in the
main kitchen.
The exterior masonry bearing wall of the south terrace between the
administration and the north wing has settled for a length of approximately forty feet and must be under-pinned. Drawings for this work
have been prepared and bids will be received from the contractor now
at work on the hospital.
Additional necessary work not now provided for is to repair certain
areas of the kitchen floor finish which is in bad condition.
Earlier this year, the entire boiler plant was remodeled and two new
boilers were installed to replace the original boilers. The installation
of water softeners has been accomplished and much clearing of hot water
piping has been done and is now in progress.
When all items mentioned are completed, the entire plant will be in
a satisfactory operating condition for some time to come.
COVINA

With over 4000 brethren, their wives, and friends visiting the
Children's Home at Covina during the past year it is obvious that
many should marvel at the facilities which a warm hearted fraternity
provides for its boys and girls. 1Many have remarked that there are

82

83

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

advantages to the Covina home seldom found in any private home. T o
an extent this is true, provided it be remembered that these benefits are
the result of group planning and group developmen t.
This year, for example, has seen the completion of a remarkable
series of farm buildings which have given new impetus and encouragement to the 4-H program in which Covina children have taken a great
interest for many years.
. During the year funds contributed by generous brethren and many
friends of Freemasonr y through wills and bequests and outright gifts
provid.ed the children with a new bus which will not only provide transportation to and from the local schools and to worship services on Sunday, but has already taken the majority of the boys and girls on extended trips which included visits to the major Western States parks and
national forests.
True, these projects would be difficult to find in any private home.
1:'hey are seldom found except under the sponsorship of men who practice the ten_ets of brotherly love by making sure that a grand group of
boys and guls find some compensatio n for that which only a real home
headed by a devoted father and a loving mother can give.
. The Trustees are grateful to Superintend ent Robert M. Henry for
h_1s acceptance of the great responsibilit y which accompanie s the opera.
tton of a Home such as Covina. The fraternity should be further
proud of the fact that basement facilities at Covina have been made available to the local public school system on a temporary basis to relieve
the acute shortage of class rooms in the area.

REPORT OF SUPERIN TENDENT - DECOTO HOME

CHARLES M. WOLLENBER G
RALPH H. HEAD
ARTHUR M. WARREN

L. HAROLD ANDERSON
EDGAR

v. STEWART

LEO E. ANDERSON
JoE L. SHELL
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

Guv B. M1zE
Referred to the Committee on Finance.

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Brethren: It is a pleasure and a privilege to submit my fourth annual
report as Superintend ent of the Masonic Home at Decoto for the year
ending June 30, 1959.
At the beginning of the fiscal year, there was a total of 353 members
in the Home, consisting of 139 men and 214 women. During the year
35 men, average age of 80.83 years, and 30 women, average age of
77.80 years were admitted to the Home. There were 34 men, average
age of 81.58 years, and 20 women, average age of 83.45 years who
passed away. A total of 2 men and 3 women were withdrawn. Our
population on June 30, 1959 was 359, consisting of 138 men and 221
women, including 10 married couples.
Age groups
50-59
60-69
70-79
80-89
90-99

Men
1
10
52
57
18

Women

138

221

Total

12
72
113

24
359

There were 76 members confined in our hospital on June 30, 1959.
of which 66 are considered permanent. In addition, there are 40 women
on the fourth floor in the north and east wings under the supervision
of the hospital staff. Even though there has been little increase in the
average age, our people have spent more time in the hospital. They also
require more medicines and medical attention.
On January 15, 1959 we acquired the services of Mrs. Evangeline
Adams, R. N. as our nursing Supervisor. Under her direction the
members are receiving excellent service and care.
Our medical service is rendered by the doctors of the Palo Alto
Medical Clinic. Early in 1959 Dr. Milton Chatton started coming to
the Home four days a week. He has a great understandi ng for the aged
and is liked very much by all the members.
Dr. Kenneth Lee o f Fremont is giving our members dental attention.
His work remains very satisfactory .
O ur Devotional services are presented each Sunday afternoon by
local ministers of various denominations. They are under the direction
of the H ome Chaplain, Reverend Martin L. Tonner. He is available
during the week for spiritual guidance and visits with the members in
their rooms and the hospital. We express our thanks to the visiting
ministers and the Home Chaplain for the work they are doing.
Brother Roy Cain has gained some valuable experience during the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDING S OP THE

p~st year and has become an efficient assistant. He enjoys his work
with our members and is well liked by them.
Our Matron, Mrs. Sara Paris and her staff are maintaining a homelike atmosphere..The members seem happy with this service and care.
The Accounting Department , Commissary and Kitchen continue to
operat.e very efficiently under the direction of Fred Boyle, Paul Reichert
and Bill Emma!, respectively.
The past year has seen many forms of entertainme nt for our family.
The. Lo?ges have ~een most generous in presenting programs in the
Auditorium. In addition, we have enjoyed entertainme nt from the Rainbow Girls, Job's Daughters and the Order of DeMolay. To them all,
we express our deepest gratitude.
W~ wish to express thanks to the booking companies for the MGM,
Twentieth Century Fox, United Artists, Universal. RKO. Warner Bros.
and Columbia Studios for making it possible for us to have movies on
each Thursday of the year.
. Some 434 L?dges journeyed to the Home for visitations and conferrmg of degrees m our Temple for the benefit of our brethren.
Just a few of the special visitations were the reception honoring the
Most Worship.f~l Phil N. Myers, our Grand Master, on Saturday, Jan.
24, 1959. He visited the Home and grounds in the afternoon and spoke
to our members in the evening. The members then presented a musical
program, after which refreshment s were served.
The Board of Trustees also held their Quarterly Meeting and
Annual Visitation on January 24, 1959.
. Many of the Trustees made tours of inspection during the year. It
is always a pleasure to see and welcome them.
Another very pleasurable event and one tha t will be long remembered
by all who attended, was the official ground breaking ceremonies for
our new Hospital Facilities by the Grand Master and Grand Lodge
Officers on May 2, 1959.
On August 16, l ~58. it was .our pleasure to welcome the East Bay
Pa~t Matrons Association , their annual visitation and reception for
the1r.~orthy Grand Matron. They brought with them 5,891 jars of jams
an~ Jellies, .2.251 quarts of fruits and juices, and a variety of other items,
which also mduded $30.50 in cash.
We are deeply grateful to all the Lodges, individuals and other
organization s !or their thoughtfuln ess and generosity in remembering
our large family. by their contributions of clothing, magazines. books,
candy, and especially the money contributions at Christmas time.
Th_ere were 4,979 visitors who signed our register, and many more
~h? d.1d _not. These rep~esented 434 Lodges in California and 35 foreign
Jurtsd1chons and 4 foreign countries. This includes the approximate 1200
brethren and their wives who visited on Grand Lodge day Oct. 1, 1958.
Over 40 men enjoyed trips to Hollister, Gilroy and Oakland this past

85

year. They were guests of the Lodges for dinner and welcomed to the
Stated Meetings.
Approximat ely 90 traveled to San Francisco by bus for luncheon
and tour of the new M asonic Temple. This w as an outing everyone
enjoyed so very much and were so grateful to the Board of Trustees
for making the trip possible.
Another grand day was the Hayward Rodeo, through the courtesy
of the Trustees - about 45 enjoyed the cowboys and dust.
The new installation in the boiler room has been completed and is
working very efficiently. There ha s been a large a mount of re-piping
of steam and hot water lines in the Home this past year. All of the hot
water tanks were cleaned and lined with a non-corrosive material.
The old ammonia refrigerator s were removed and replaced w ith
modern and more effiicient walk-in and reach-in boxes of the Freon type.
New ranges were installed in June 1959 to replace the old and inefficient ones.
Our new Hospital Facilities a re well under way. There was a tremendous amount of dirt that required moving before any building could
start. This took about six weeks. The footings and ground floor wall
forms are almost complete and we are looking forward to next June,
when possibly we can move in.
Produce received from Masonic Home Farm.
Fruit, Fresh......................................................$ 70.50
Fruit, Frozen (Apricots ) .................... .............. 198.25
Vegetables ........................................................ 137.42
Walnuts ............................................................ 120.00
Hay .................................................................. 100.00
Total ......................... .................... ... ............$626.17
As the fiscal year has just drawn to a close, I believe our members
feel it has been an eventful one for them and one free from worries
and troubles. They appear happy and satisfied in their surroundings.
To them I express my thanks for their cooperation and assistance.
To a ll our employees, I convey my appreciation for their efforts and
cooperation in caring for our family .
To the Board of Trustees, I express my appreciation and gratitude
for their sincere interest of the H ome, and the members also for their
coopera tion and guidance during the year, which has been most help ful
to me.
To the Trustees and the Craft. I convey my thanks for the opportunity of serving them in caring for our Brethren and their widows.
Respectfully submitted.
GAIL H. DAVID, Superintendent

86

87

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

REPORT OF THE SUPERI NTEND ENT -COVIN A HOME

in school clubs, and athletics. Our children participate d in Governme nt
Day in the Public Schools. Suppleme ntal tutoring is given wherever
needed. Mrs. Norma Robinson comes to the Home three days a week
to instruct the younger children in remedial reading and two teachers
from the area assist in tutoring the High School children. The children
attend the church of their choice in our communit y. They are encouraged to have their friends visit on weekends , go swimming, or visit
over night. Piano instructio n as well as other cultural activities is optional. The children take part in numerous planned activities such as
hikes, picnics, dances, fishing in the Home pond, weekend camping and
fishing expedition s, horseback riding, swimming, skating, snow trips.
We are deeply indebted to five of the major picture studios for the excellent movies they send each week for the children's pleasure; Columbia
Pictures Corporati on, Loew's Incorpora ted, Twentieth Century Fox
Film Exchange , Universal Films Exchange , Warner Brothers, and the
Bliss Pickup and Delivery Service of Alhambra .
The children spent an enjoyable time at Coronado for their summer
camping activity in 1958, water skiing, boating. fishing, camping. visiting the navy ships and many places of interest in the San Diego area.

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is with great pleasure that I present my eleventh annual report as
Superinte ndent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina, for the
year ending June 30, 1959.
HOME MEMBERSHIP

As of June 30, 1959, the population of our Masonic Home Family
num~ers fifty-five children - thirty-fou r boys and twenty-on e girls.
During the fiscal year of 1958-59, eight children have been admitted to
the Home, five boys and three girls. Fifteen children left the Home.
thre:. graduatin g from High School and twelve returning to their
families. AH three graduates plan to further their education, two attending Junior College and one University .
Families
Children
Family Status
6
II
Orphans
7
I4
H/0 Fathers living
5
8
H / O Mother living
12
22
Both parents living
Family relationsh ips in the Home consist of the following: One
family of five children; one family of four children ; four families of three
children; ten families of two children and fourteen families of one child
each. Six children, representi ng five families, are in the Home under the
membership of the grandpare nt. Of the fifty-five children, twenty-fo ur
will attend High School this fall and thirty-one will attend Elementar y
School. Twenty-n ine Masonic Lodges have residents at the Home,
representi ng thirty families.
HOME. SCHOOL AND C OM MUNITY ACTIVITIE S

Our children again participate d in presenting a program to members
of the Fraternity attending the Los Angeles Board of Relief Meeting in
May. On the same day as the Board of Relief Meeting many of our
c~ildren showed their animals at the 4-H Fair in Pomona returning
with many first and second ribbons. One of our boys is active in Future
Farmers at the High School. The children always look forward to the
awarding of two of the most coveted awards at the Family Christmas
Pa~ty; the Leonard Gross Memorial Award for "Boy of the Year",
which was awarded to Bill Galvery in 1958. The Adolph Koshland
Award for "Good Citizenshi p" (awarded to either boy or girl) was won
by James Hoard and Douglas Yungling. Ever effort is made to afford
our children a variety of interests with the resultant accomplis hment of a
broader foundation for inteIIectual and spiritual growth, and personalit y
developm ent. They are encourage d to take an active part in school.
church, and Home activities. Our children have represente d the Home
at Covina High School, Charter Oak High School and at Badillo
Grammar School. as class officers and members of the student body,

HEALTH AND WELFARE PROGRAM

We are again grateful to Dr. W. P. Magan. Sr., and his associates
for supervisio n and care given our children over the years. We have
had the usual contagiou s diseases characteri stic with young children.
The children's optometry is under the supervision of Dr. McCormic k.
Dr. Teal of Covina continues to take care of the orthodont ia work and
Dr. Elmer King, an alumnus of the Home, examines the children's teeth
bi- monthly and administe rs the necessary treatment.
FARM AND MASONIC PIONEERS ' 4.H CLUB

This year the realization of the long range plan for the improvement of our farm and service buildings was achieved. The general service
buildings have added greatly to the protection and care of the Home's
assets and equipmen t. Farm machinery and automotiv e and rolling stock
are now adequatel y housed. Garage facilities for our employees and
their necessary storage of personal property are now available. General
storage of furniture, equipmen t and supplies now alleviate the fire hazard
previously encounter ed in using the basements of the children's dormitories. Additiona lly a new farm residence was included in this building
program, and Mr. Valentine Dauchy. our Farm Manager for the past
eleven years, and his wife now occupy this home. The new farm building offers the children modern convenien ces and methods of working
with livestock, but most important it assures them of maximum safety in
the handling of large animals, which no matter how gentle or well
trained. always presents certain inherent physical dangers. Participat ion

88

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

89

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in the 4-H Program is on a voluntary basis, but the Masonic Pioneers
1-H Club has never suffered for membership. Its record in club work
and in shows has been a credit to the Home, and to the Fraternity.
VISITATIONS

The visitations of Masonic Lodges and other organizations continues
under the visitation program established in previous years. Reservations for a maximum of four hundred visitors are made every Visitation
Sunday, which is the third Sunday of every month. Reservations are
filled not further than a year in advance. The visitation program has
been well received by the hundreds of Lodges making use of this medium
to tell to its membership the true meaning of Masonic Benevolence. It
is worthy of note that the policy of visitations on the third Sunday of
each month is of immeasurable value in guaranteeing and affording the
children the benefits of relaxation and diversion of routine programs.
ALUMNI OP THB Cov1NA HoME

The Covina Alumni Reunion is observed on the second Sunday in
September and the Alumni Reunion Dinner in San Francisco is on the
Saturday preceding Grand Lodge. Sacramento Alumni have participated
with a Picnic the past couple of years in the Spring and each year finds
it increasing in attendance. It is most enjoyable to all to meet on these
regular occasions which are especially set aside. To listen to the Alumni
review old times with heart warming experiences relived, to see so many
in attendance, some coming from a great distance is indeed inspiring.
A copy of the 1959 Masonic Home Newsletter was sent to all active
alumni and to Masonic Lodges currently sponsoring a child in the
Home; and to all Grand Lodge Officers.
This past year marked the completion of my first decade as Superintendent of the Covina Home. The association with the many children.
the staff. and the magnitude of friends of the Home has been richly
rewarding. To the Craft and to the various members of the Board of
Trustees through these years, I should like to express my sincerest
thanks for the confidence and faith that has been tendered me in this
joint service to the children of our brethren.

Respect[ully Submitted.
RoBRRT M. HENRY. Superintendent

TRIBUTE TO CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
On behalf of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes, Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren called the attention of the Brethren to the
service which Past Grand Master Wollenberg had rendered to the
Fraternity. to the community. and to the state. Brother Warren read
the following resolution which had been adopted by the Trustees of
the Masonic Homes:
WHEREAS. PAST GRAND MASTER
CHARLES M . WOLLENBERG
has. during most of his lifetime. made the care ~.n.d prote~~ion of all
human beings. especially the aged, his particular life work ; and
WHEREAS. Brother Wollenberg has been especially interested
in seeing that necessary aid and assistance was rendered to every Mason , his widow or orphans, who might be in need; and
WHEREAS. among his other great Masonic accomplishments has
been this demonstration, to the highest degree, of what we may call
"practical Masonry"; and
WHEREAS. Past Grand Master Charles M . Wollenberg has
served as a trustee and officer of our Masonic Homes for over 4?
years and has left an indelible i~print of his great social and humamtarian ideals; Now therefore be it
RESOLVED, that we, as Trustees of the Masonic Homes, and on
behalf of all former trustees and the entire Fraternity, including the
guests at Decato and the hundreds of children who have been at
Covina, extend to Brother Wollenberg the deep ~pp~eciation of. all,
and salute him as one of the great Masonic humanitarians of all time.
October 2, 1959
RALPH H. HEAD

EDGAR

v. STEWART, JR.

ARTHUR M. WARREN

JoB L. SHELL

LEO E. ANDERSON

ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

L. HAROLD ANDERSON

Guv B. MIZE

An engrossed copy of the resolution wa~ handed to ~rother yY ollenberg and the Brethren in attendance e.v 1dence~ their affect1on and
a ppreciation by their applause and standing ovation.

90

91

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

MASONIC HOME CEREMO NIES

until now the assets of the Masonic H omes of California and its Endowment and trust funds amount to something near 15 million dollars .
But we must not count our progress in material terms. but rather in
the welfare and happiness which we have been able to share over the
years with our older members. their wives and widows. and with the
children and orphans o f our brethren. here and at Covina. In the
language of our ritual. " To soothe the unhappy. to sympathize with
their misfortunes. to compassion ate their miseries. and to restore peace
to their troubled minds. is the great aim we have in view."
(Grand Master proceeds to the chosen spot, with Grand Chaplain
and Grand Marshal. and then turns a spadeful or two of earth).
(Grand Marshal hands Grand M aster the vessels of Corn, Wine
and Oil, one at a time).
Grand Master pours Corn on the ground, saying:
"Corn, the emblem of Nourishmen t. has been used from time immemorial in the dedicat ion of Masonic halls and hallowed Masonic
ground."
.
Grand Master pours Wine on the ground, saymg:
"Wine. the emblem of Refreshmen t. was used by our ancient
brethren in all ceremonies of consecration ."
Gra nd Master pours Oil on the ground, saying :
"Oil. the emblem of joy was likewise used by our ancient brethren
in all their solemn ceremonies. May our beloved Fraternity long exist
to pour forth the Oil of Joy upon the hearts of the widowed, the fatherless and the distressed."
We solemnly dedicate this ground to Brotherly Love and Relief.
Without love life would be bereft of joy and the future would be
deprived of h~pe. It is the light that guides every huma n being from
the day he is born of woman, sending its radiance along the pathway
of life. so that he may sa fely walk to the end of his allotted days.
.
May the building to be erected upon this spot inspire us to dedicate
a nd devote ourselves a new to the service of God and humanity!
Grand Chaplain: Praised be Thou. the Giver of every good ~nd
perfect gift. Praised be Thou , the Inspirer of the souls of men. P raised
be Thou. and Sustainer of all them that labor. Let the whole earth
praise the Lord forever. Amen.
(The Grand Marshal takes ve~sels. returns them to table.)
(The Grand Officers return to their places and the Grand Master
seats them .)
1. (Address bu Grand Orator).
2. (Address by President, Trustees).
.
. .
Grand Master: The Grand Chaplain w ill now give the bened1ct1on.
which will conclude the ceremony.
G rand Chaplain: The Lord bless us and keep us! The Lo~d make
his face to shine upon us. and be gracious unto us! The Lord hft upon
us the light of His countenance and give us peace! Amen.

. The new hospital facility for the Home for the Aged at Decoto
(recently changed to Union City) was the subject of two special
Grand Lodge Ceremonies during the year. On May 2, 1959, the
ground was broken by the Grand Master. Assisted by the Ritual Committee, the Grand Master had prepared an impressive form of ceremony
for the occasion and the wording thereof is printed herewith.
The residents of the H ome who attended the Ceremony were
particularly impressed with the reminiscences which were included in
the extemporan eous remarks of Past Grand Master Charles M. Wollenberg , as President of the Homes Board of Trustees . His forty years of
service on that Board enabled him to remember and recount many
interesting incidents.
The formal address of the Ceremony was given by Judge Albert C.
Wollenberg . a former Grand Orator of this Gra nd Lodge.

CEREMO NY FOR GROUND -BREAKIN G AT DECOTO

'

May 2, 1959
Ladies and Gentlemen: We are gathered here this afternoon fo r
the purpose of breaking ground for the construction of a new addition to
this, our great Masonic Home, - the addition of a new hospital.
In accordance with the teachings of our Institution, we should.
before entering upon any great or important undertaking . invoke the
aid and blessing of God. We shall, therefore. reverently unite in prayer
with our Grand Chaplain. ( *"")
Grand Chaplain: Almighty and Eternal God. Who laid the foundations of the earth! We beseech Thee to look with favor on this undertaking. the performance of the first physical act of consecrating the
ground for the erection of this building. Cause Thy face to shine upon
us that what we now do may please Thee. Let Thy work appear unto
Thy servants a nd Thy glory unto their children. Establish Thou the
work of our hands; yea, the work of our hands establish Thou it! May
the Great Architect of the Universe accept our labors for His own
glorious purpose, now a nd evermore. Amen. ( ... )
Grand Master: Brethren a nd friends. M asonry in California has
fairly justified its claim to the principles of Brotherly Love and Relief,
and its record in this respect is worthy of the best traditions of our ancient institution.
This great Masonic Home located at Decato was first conceived by
our Masonic forbears in 1890, a nd the land on which it stands was
purchased by the Grand Lodge of California for the Trustees of the
Home in 1893. The corner stone was la id with Masonic ceremonies by
the Grand Master and his officers on October 14, 1896. less than 63
years ago. Yet during that period the properties of our Homes have
accumulated by donations fro m our brethren and t he fri ends of the Craft

92

PROCBEDING S OF THB

ADDRESS BY UNITED STATES D1sTRICT JuDGB ALBBRT C. WoLLBNBBl lG.
AT DBCOTO, CALIFORNIA , MAY 2, 1959
ON THE OCCASION OP GROUND-BR EAKING CEREMONIE S
FOR THE NEW HOSPITAL

Most Worshipful , Ladies, Brethren and Friends:
It is indeed a great privilege for all of us to assemble again on thE
grounds of this beautiful Home.
It is a privilege because all of us feel that once more on this afternoon. we ~ave ag~in wi~nessed, and are participatin g in a ceremony
ma~km~ with physical evidence the discharge of perhaps our most sacred
obligation. The same ground which our Most Worthy Grand Master
has ~urned_ over sym_bolizing the commencement of building a modern
hospital with the ultimate in modern comfort and convenience to care
for our own, has witnessed similar ceremonies on this very location since
1892 when the Grand Lodge acquired this tract of originally 267 acres.
Grand Master Preston in 1896 laid the original cornerstone for the flrst
of this group of buildings. Since that time 63 years ago many changes
have taken place, and all we need do today is look around us to see
that fro~ that time on California Masonry has with foresight and confidence builded well, and with a desire to comfort our brethren and their
':idow~. Today we can claim a record for this great home that establishes 1t as a model of world-wide repute. And when we who have
been P~.ivileged to visit the Children's Home at Covina think of "our
Homes we can not help but swell with pride and satisfaction at the
work of California Masonry.
This building that we start today will, upon its completion, ever be
a monument to the devotion of the Master Masons of our Jurisdiction
to t~e great Homes which through their generosity have been of such
service to the cause of freemasonry in California.
These two great homes represent in a material way why our great
fraternity has prospered these many years. Where else can we find
sue~ evidence of dedication to a principle, such evidence of sincere
desire to properly discharge an obligation, such evidence of benevolence
~ithout a vestige of ostentation? It is indeed a tribute to our institution and every brother of every Lodge in California can be proud of the
part h~ has played in making possible this necessary addition to this
splendid Home. For here at Decato we indeed have a home; it is a
home for all of us even though we are not and will not perhaps ever be
act~ally _in residence here. It has been and will ever be the Home of all
Calt~orma Masons. Its growth, not only in residents, which is not
the important thing, but rather its growth in facilities and in true
home ~tmo~~here and service is proof also of the sincerity and true
Masomc spmt that pervades our great jurisdiction.
I have mentioned the members of our constituent lodges who, of

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

93

course, are the great builders of Masonry in California, but like any
other constituency these true brethren of Masonry must have leadership.
The best evidence that that leadership has been forward looking and
devoted is the great work they have accomplished, but again I feel we
must admit that it is the membership which must be complimented, for
in California they have chosen well over the years. This leadership,
from our very beginnings. has had as its primary concern the relief of
distress. It is said that true charity, be it Masonic or otherwise, is not
true charity unless the giver really deprives himself of something in the
giving . Many of our Lodges over the years, and there have been lean
ones, have not found it easy to pay their Home taxes, yet year after
year in Grand Lodge the constituent Lodges have regularly maintained
the Home funds and have kept inviolate the building funds so that we
today may see another stride toward fulfillment of our ambition to ever
improve the lot of those who look toward us for comfort and solace in
the declining years of their lives.
True, we break ground today so that others in years to come may
have the benefit of a modern hospital facility. but in doing so we undertake not only for ourselves but for future generations the oblig ation of
continuing on in this great work. Our present contribution is this building, but it will also stand as a challenge to those who will follow us.
They must, if we build well. continue to build after we are gone. The
institution of the Masonic Homes is a great institution because it has
never been allowed to rest on its laurels. To stand still would mean
decay, and that would mean defeat not only for all of us, but for those
true and devoted Masons who since the beginning of Masonry in
California have always walked uprightly and forward . If we have been
fortunate in our. time to have modestly carried on and to have had the
privilege which we enjoy today, then we must so build this building
that future generations will say it was well built, not only physically,
but that it was well built in purpose, and that it may be a shining
example to those who follow, to encourage devotion to our institutions,
for as our roots go down and nurture deep in the soil so will our spirit
grow into full fruition and become a guidin g mark on the road to future
progress.
I am sure that this has been the story of the past; we hope that we
have not faltered on the road but have progressed another step forward .
This building will be evidence of our own progress. and we pray that
because of our works we today leave a guiding mark to the future.
Masonry in California must continue in this splendid work. Hospitals such as this one are not merely havens of mercy to relieve suffering
if we are to continue with our eyes on the future. It is a great forward
step we have taken, and who knows but that from this modest beginning
some day in the future great and lasting contribution to the general
welfare of mankind may spring forth to alleviate the lot of old age. This
statement today may sound terribly far-fetched since only one spadeful

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of earth has been turned. but I think you will agree with me that when
progress is given a start, even just a small beginning, great things are
accomplished by man in a free world. It was ten years after the Grand
Lodge acquired this tract of land, in fact it was in December of 1903,
that the Wright Brothers made their first flight at Kittyhawk; if you
have any doubt that progress isn't swift take a look at a current airline
schedule. So I say again, by building well today, as our predecessors did
in days gone by, we may be opening the door to things far beyond our
present comprehension.
This thing we do today is simply in discharge of our Masonic obligations, but if we do it well and wisely it will have results beyond our
greatest expectations. May we look forward to a bright and glorious
result from our present efforts, and may we be rewarded not just with
personal satisfaction. but with the knowledge that by progressing in
our time we make it possible for progress to continue in the years to
come, and by charting a course ever onward and upward we help insure
a future not only for Masonry in California, but for mankind everywhere.
In closing. let us thank God for the privilege he has given us this
day, and let us acknowledge the responsibility placed upon us to continue in the service of mankind by discharging many good works
throughout the years to come. May we continue to administer to the
soul of man as well as to his body. as Masonry has done in the past;
may today be a new beginning and a rededication of our minds and
efforts to continuance in this necessary work.

Cornerstone Ceremony
By the last week in September progress on the building had advanced
to the point where it was possible for the cornerstone to be appropriately
placed with Masonic Ceremony. On the afternoon of September 30,
which was Wednesday of the Annual Communication. Grand Lodge
was opened at the Masonic Home and the cornerstone was laid by the
Grand Master, assisted by the Grand Lodge Officers, in accordance with
our ritual. Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderson represented the
Trustees of the Masonic Homes and his remarks are included herewith.
as are also the address given by the Grand Orator and a tabulation of
the items included in the cornerstone casket.

Introductions
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am L. Harold Anderson, Past Grand Master and a member of the
Board of the Masonic Homes. I have been requested by the Grand
Master to act as master of ceremonies on the occasion of laying the
cornerstone of our magnificent new hospital facility.

GRAND 1.0DGE OF CALIFORNIA

95

We have been taught that before entering upon any great or
important undertaking we first invoke the blessing of God. Therefore
I call upon the Rev. Dr. Edward D. Kohlstedt, Grand Chaplain of the
Grand Lodge of California, to give the invocation.
Ancient and eloquent are the traditions and the rites of Freemasonry.
Between the first verse of the Book of Genesis in the Old Testament
and the last verse of the Book of Revelations of the New Testament,
the alpha and omega of the great light of Masonry, is to be found the
complete record of divine guidance and human experience in laying
the foundations of our civilization.
A cornerstone of that great foundation is our trust in the Supreme
Grand Master of the Universe. Sealed within that cornerstone are the
tenets and philosophies of our ancient and venerable Order.
We are assembled here today to celebrate the rite of a ceremony
that is ancient in the practices of Freemasonry and in so doing we will
establish another landmark in the traditions of California Freemasonry
and at the same time identify and enshrine a hospital facility which
will protect and safeguard the health. welfare and contentment of our
elder brothers and sisters.
Let the events of this day remind us all that we continue our travel
along the level of time, progressing from year to year, from generation
to generation, striving for perfection. We should all recognize that
in practicing the tenets of Freemasonry. brotherly love, relief and truth,
we are exemplifying the strength and beauty of a great cornerstone of
our fraternity and that in recognizing the noble purpose for which this
hospital facility will serve, the cornerstone of the next generation must
come from the strength and wisdom of this generation for a better and
happier humanity.
The wisdom of our brethren of years before us, who conceived and
implemented our Masonic Homes program, who built the foundations
and laid the cornerstone upon which we of more recent years have
added and strengthened, to them not to us. be a ll the glory, the praises.
and the honor.
It is my distinct privilege, this day, to present to you those .~ho
serve the Masons of California a s Trustees of our two great chantJes :
the Masonic Home for Children at Covina and this great Home for
the Aged at Decato, or should I say Union City. I understand Decoto
has become a name of the past.
(Introductions)
W . Gail David, Superintendent of the Masonic Home for the Aged.
In the interest of time, please withhold your applause until the entire
Board has been presented.
First, let me present the M. W. Charles Albert Adams, P. G. M.
of Masons of California, who served as a member of this Homes Board

96

GRAND LODGE. OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

for over 40 years and now is our first memb er emerit us
Albert Adam s.

-

Charle s

M .·.w.· .LEo E. ANDERSON. P.G.M . of Mason s of Califo rnia.
rnia.
M.'.W .' .EDGAR V. STEWART. Jr., P.G.M . of Mason s of Califo
rnia.
Califo
of
s
Mason
of
.
M.' .W.'.ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.G.M
rnia.
Califo
R.'.W .'.Guy B. MIZE, Jr. Grand Ward en of Mason s of
s of
R.'.W. '.ALB ERT F . BRESLAUER, Sr. Grand Ward en of Mason
Califo rnia.
of CaliR.'.W .'. JOE L. SHELL. Deput y Grand Maste r of Mason s
.
fornia
of CaliM.'.W .'.CHA RLES M. WOLLENBERG, P.G.M . of Mason s
over 40
for
Board
s
Home
ic
Mason
fornia, a memb er of the
.
Board
our
of
ent
Presid
t
presen
years and
will take
Now it gives me great pleasu re to presen t to you those who
.
facility
al
part in the laying of the corner stone for our new hospit
son.
W.'.ARTHUR W. ANDERSON, who repres ents the fl.rm of Ander
Hyde & Ander son, the princi pal archite cts of the work.
W.'.THEODORE MERIAM, Grand Orato r of Grand Lodge.
W: .DR. EDWARD D. KoHLSTEDT, Grand Chapl ain of Grand
Lodge.
ate of
M.'.W .'.HEN RY C. Cu.us EN. P.G.M . and Judge Advoc
Grand Lodge.
Grand
M .'.W.'.LLOYD E. WILSON, P.G.M and Secret ary of
Lodge .
Grand
M.' .W.'.EDWARD H . SIEMS, P.G.M . and Treas urer of
Lodge.
.
R.'.W .'.Guv B. MrzE. Jr. Grand Ward en of Grand Lodge
Grand
of
en
Ward
Grand
Sr.
R.'.W. '.ALP RED F. BRESLAUER,
Lodge .
.
R.'.W .'.JoE L. SHELL, Deput y Grand Maste r of Grand Lodge
has
this
serve
to
unself ishly given up his time and efforts this past year
his love for
strated
demon
has
He
r.
Maste
Grand
Grand Lodge as its
loyalt y with
the fratern ity by his devoti on to duty and the unswe rving
ic career .
which he has served this jurisdi ction during his entire Mason
the groun dWe were privileged to have him here on the occasi on of
I presen t
today.
here
him
have
to
ged
priviJe
breaki ng last May; we are
s of Calito you M.'.W .' .PHIL N. MYERS. Grand Maste r of Mason
fornia .

It now becomes my privilege to presen t to you the man who

ADDRESS BY THEO DOR E MER IAM, GRA ND ORA

9i

TOR

Septe mber 30, 1959
an impor tMost Worsh ipful, Brethr en and Friend s: This is indeed
signifiThe
.
laying
stone
corner
any
ant and significant occasi on, as is
other
like
is
stone
the
for
stone,
the
with
cance does not lie wholly
stone
corner
this
what
But
color.
or
size
any
be
could
corner stones and
repres ents is tremen dous.
h our
Here is repres ented our responsibility to ourselves. throug
cant
signifi
respon sibility to our own older people. Here is repres ented
repis
Here
.
needed
y
growt h, as this new hospit al facility is so greatl
rds of care.
resent ed an impor tant better ment of standa rds - standa
rts.
comfo
and
needs
and
s,
desire
standa rds of attenti on to human
there is
know
I
and
And here in this corner stone there must be
great
two
of
service
of
spirit
- a substa ntial share of the wonde rful
and
nberg
Wolle
M.
es
Charl
ism
practit ioners of human itarian
their
of
and
on
devoti
their
of
re
measu
a
Surely
Charle s Alber t Adam s.
ed in this
concer n. and of their true Mason ic Love, will ever be retain
partic ular corner stone.
ic Home
Over sixty years ago the corner stone of this great Mason
ance at
attend
in
Those
n.
Presto
r
Maste
Grand
then
was laid by the
tadvan
the
now;
do
that time doubtl ess looked to the future even as we
the
in
r
farthe
back
look
to
age we have today lies in our oppor tunity
of the record
experi ence of this wonde rful home. By our unders tandin g
sibility
respon
our
of
aware
firmly
more
yet
are
of our previo us service we
for the
best
very
the
e
provid
to
desire
e
sincer
our
of
for the future and
reside nts of Decat o.
Mason ry,
Some month s from now this building will be dedic ated-t o
Mason ry.
of
le
to Virtue , and to Unive rsal Benevolence. Our best examp
as we
today
here
of Virtue . and of Unive rsal Benevolence, is repres ented
Grand
Past
two
our
of
care
reflect on the devote d servic e and loving
s. Let us
Maste rs. Charle s M. Wolle nberg and Charle s Alber t Adam
men. Let
two
these
of
emblem
an
stone
alway s recognize in this corner
practi ce
to
way.
the
us
shown
have
they
as
and
have,
us strive, as they
Love,
rly
Brothe
of
to the limit of our practic ability the Mason ic trust
.
of Brothe rly Benevolence, and of Brothe rly Relief
onies, is
This corner stone, laid today with these impressive cerem
then
and
cance
meani ngless unless we recogn ize its symbo lic signifi
ents.
repres
cance
signifi
lic
procee d to practic e the acts which that symbo
this instan ce
In a genera l sense we are not operat ive Mason s, but in
to suppo rt
ue
contin
we
as
s
Mason
ive
operat
we are truly and compl etely
s of Califo rand expan d the great Mason ic Work of the Mason ic Home
we conmay
nia. May this day, then, be of especi al significance, and
demon ably
so
been
has
tinue to strive for better ment in the way that
far.
thus
work
the
strated for us by those who have carried

.98

· PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

CONTENT OF CORNERSTONE CASKET

ANNUAL REPORT OF
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

1. 1958 Grand Lodge Proceedings
2. 1959 Masonic Homes Trustees Report
3. 1959 Grand Treasurer's Report and Audit
4. 1959 Grand Secretary's Report
5. 1959 Grand Master's Message
6. Dedicatory issue of California Freemason
7. Autumn 1959 issue of California Freema son
·
8. Application form for Decoto Home
9. 1959 Report Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
10. 1959 Report California Masonic Memorial Temple
11. 1959 Report Investment Committee
12. Copy 1958 Thanksgiving Menu
13. Copy 1958 Christmas Menu
· 14. Copy September 1959 Home Messenger
15. Copy D ecato Information Booklet
16. Copy Ground Breaking Ceremony - May 1959
17. Copy address by Federal Judge Albert C. Wollenberg - May 1959
18. Three photographs Ground Breaking Ceremony - May 1959
19. Photograph Siminoff Temple
20. Photograph Main Building , Decato
21. Photograph Administration Building. Decoto

LODGES CONSOLIDATED
The Grand Secretary reported that all the requirements of the law
respecting consolidation of Lodges had been complied with by Arlington
Lodge No. 414 and Acacia Lodge No. 438. On motion duly made,
seconded and carried Grand Lodge approved the consolidation with the
Lodge to be known as Arlington Lodge No. 414.
Adopted unanimously.

99

Herewith is the 27th Annual Report of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board, covering the period of July l, 1958 to June 30, 1959. The
information in this report. if carefully read and thoughtfully studied.
will reveal that the brethren of this Jurisdiction are continuing to show
an ever-increasing interest in this great Humanitarian Cause. A comparison with last year's report will show that many lodges had tremendous increases in contributions which reflects an unusual amount of
effort expended in those lodges.
PERCENTAGE OF PARTICIPATION

This past year, 93,425 brethren made a cash contribution to the
Endowment Fund. This number compares with 81,686 contributors the
previous year for a net increase of 11, 739. Percentage-wise. this total
raised the " Percentage of Participation" from 34.4% the previous year
to 39.2% this year. Even with this increase, it will be noted that more
than 60% of the members of the lodges are still not making even a
small contribution annually to this most worthy Cause. We hope that
all interested brethren will join with us in a determined elfort this year
to materially increase the number of contributors and that the "Percentage of Participation" will increase to at least 50% for 1960.
CASH CONTRIBUTIONS

During the past year, the individual contributions through the lodges
totaled $502,120.43 for a net increase of $80,486.81 above the previous
year (comparative figures are shown on another page of this report).
These figures are for individual contributions through the lodges and do
not include bequests. memorials, profits or appreciation on securities, or
special gifts. This is another all-time high in Annual Contributions and
further reflects the increased interest and accelerated efforts of all who
contributed time, energy and/or money to the Endowment this year.
HoNoR RoLL LoocEs
This report lists 453 lodges on the Honor Roll for 1959, as compared
to 365 a year ago, for a net increase of 88 Honor Roll Lodges. Even
more encouraging is the fact that 60 of those lodges are on the Honor
Roll for the very first time (the others having been on the Honor Roll
in some previous year or years). Approximately 65% of the lodges are
now on the Honor Roll and it is hoped that a ll such lodges will make a
determined effort to stay on the Honor Roll for the coming year and
that the lodges which are not on the Honor Roll this year will make a
special effort to attain that distinction in 1960. The above figures prove
that "it can be done",

100

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS- OF THE

$3.00 OR MORE AVERAGE

WILLS AND BEQUESTS

We hereby give extra special recognition, congratulations and
thanks to the following 79 lodges who not only attained the Honor Roll
by an average of $2.00 per member, but "went the second mile" by
sending in contributions averaging $3.00 or more per member:

No.
763

264

780
704

698
767
595
707

566
729

781
739
237
HS
378
737

522
200
40
788
623
685
742
278

637
3
769
734
761
732
402
41
697
743
589
242
766

642
778

475

Average
amount
per member
Lodge
Arabic ..................................$11.19
Hespcrian ................-........... 8.43
Riviera .......-........................ 7.00
Orinda ·······-··..................... 6.76
Wm. D. Stephens................ 6.45
\Vm. Rhodes Hervey.......... 6.43
Alexander Graham Bell...... 6.07
Lake Tahoe ........................ 6.04
James A. Garfield................ 5.28
Centennial ......................._. 4.93
Rolling Hills. ........................ 4.88
La Canada .......-·--··--------·-- 4.85
Guadalupe ·-------------------·--·· 4.72
Wilshire .............................. 4.72
Mizpah ................................ 4.66
Hillsborough ...........-......... 4.61
Sunrise .........................-----·· 4.60
Truckee .............................. 4.49
Sacramento ........................ 4.43
Sierra .................................. 4.43
Menorah ........................... - 4.35
San Marino ........................ 4.33
Morningside Park .............. 4.29
Southern California .......... 4.17
Palisades .............................. 4.14
Tc-hama ................................ 4.13Palmdale .............................. i.07
Kit Carson ----·-·-··--·····------· 4.06
Josiah W. Roller................ 4.00
San Juan.............................. 3.90
Brawley ......................... -.. 3.82
Martinez .............................. 3.81
Saint Elmo .......................... 3.80
Oakwood ...........-----·------ 3.79
Kauai .................................. 3.69
Magnolia ------····----------·· 3.64
James H. Kew...................... 3.61
La Cumbre .......................... 3.57
La Mirada ................---------- 3.55
America .............................. 3.53

No.
736
409
412
733
786
319
60

Lodge

101

Average
amount
per member

Lemon Grove ....................--$ 3.53
Honolulu .............-............... 3.52
Calexico __........................... 3.50
Golden Empire .................. 3.44
Rio Linda ............................ 3.41
Hollenbeck ------····---·--·------· 3.40
Plumas --------------------··----·-- 3.38
1 California ............................. 3.37
542 North Hollywood .............. 3.36
616 R. E. Dolley........................ 3.35
760 Lakeside ·-····--------------····· 3.34
330 Kilauea ................................ 3.31
728 Lakewood............................ 3.28
352 Sunset ------------------·---·--··---- 3.27
35 San Diego --·------------·--·---· 3.25
663 Ojai...................................... 3.16
144 Oriental ....._....................... 3.12
308 Monrovia ............................ 3.11
628 T ·ruth .................................... 3.11
727 Verdugo Hills .................... 3.09
392 West Lake .......................... 3.08
600 Lynwood ............................ 3.07
368 Unity .... ------·-····-·--............ 3.06
546 San Gabriel ........................ 3.06
708 Seafaring ......................----- 3.06
5 Benicia ...... ·-······-·······------·· 3.05
452 San Pasqual ........................ 3.05
641 James A. Foshay................ 3.05
768 Zenith .................................. 3.05
783 Mojave ................................ 3.05
699 Bixby Knolls -------------------- 3.04
712 Los Altos ............................ 3.03
203 Confidence ------------------------- 3.02
320 South Gate .......................... 3.02
384 El Centro ............................ 3.02
283 South West .....................-- 3.01
300 Redlands ................_............. 3.01
383 Orosi .................................... 3.01
738 Arvin .................................. 3.00

A year ago there were only 36 lodges in the above listing. This year
there are 79. To these 79 lodges the Honor Roll of $2.00 per member
average is simply a stepping- stone or mile-post to greater accomplishments, but not the ultimate goal. Again, our special thanks to these 79
lodges for their outstanding accomplishment.

In addition to the contributions through the lodges. as shown above,
$87,251.28 was contributed to the Endowment Fund during the past
year through Bequests, the final and lasting expression of love and
affection from those who have been called from labor in this life. A
special pamphlet is available for mailing to members to encourage this
method of contribution, by making a new Will, or by Codicil, and
including the Homes Endowment therein. During the past year more
than 40,000 such pamphlets were ordered by the lodges and sent to
members. We hope many other lodges will do so this year.
PRINTED ITEMS

During the past year, the lodges ordered more than a million printed
items of information for mailing to lodges, such as pamphlets, Stop-Think-Consolidate cards, and Grand Master's Proclamations (re Endowment Month). In addition countless thousands of letters, cards. etc.
were sent out to members by the lodges in connection with the Homes
Endowment. This year an unusually large number of lodges sent out
letters to their members regarding contributions to the Homes Endowment and this method has proven to be very effective. A special thanks
is due to those lodges which are willing to spend a few dollars of the
lodge funds in order to do a greater job for the Homes Endowment.
Many of the pamphlets furnished by this Board contain much factual
information about our two fine Homes and are intended to keep the
brethren informed about the Homes they are, or should be, supporting.
Among several new pamphlets recently prepared is one giving information about the wonderful new hospital which is now under construction at the Home for Aged at Decoto.
CHANGES IN ENDOWMENT BOARD PERSONNEL

The second three-year term of Brother John Kahler, of Santa Ana,
expired as of the close of Grand Lodge on October 3, 1958 and he
requested that he not be appointed for another term, because of pressing and increased demands on his time in his occupation. He had
served this Board for six years in the Orange-Riverside-San Bernardino
Counties area and did outstanding work. It was he who "tested" the
Stop-Think-Consolidate cards in the lodges of his area for two years
and then suggested that this Board furnish them to all lodges, instead
of just printing the form in the Information Manual as had been done
theretofore. His suggestion was adopted and the lodges have since
ordered and used nearly half a million such cards and they have proven
to be one of the most effective printed items. Though no longer a
Member, John is still assisting the Board in every way possible.
In November, 1958, Brother Rue W. Sims, of San Leandro, resigned
from this Board because of increasing demands in his occupation. He

I 02

had served the lodges in the East Bay area for some seven years. He
had been assigned to some 70 lodges extending from Martinez on the
north to near San Jose on the south. This large area and large number
of lodges required a lot of work and much of Brother Sims' time until
he finally came to the conclusion that he could not do justice to his own
occupation and at the same time give the necessary time to the Endowment work. He has been greatly missed by those lodges and by this
Board.
Brother Marion A. Long, of Fresno, passed away on January 26.
1959 after an illness of five months. He had served in the San Joaquin
ValJey for eight years. His friendly and affable nature. and his sincerity and devotedness to the Homes and the work of this Board will
be greatly missed and long remembered .
M.W. Phil N. Myers, Grand Master, appointed the following to
Membership on this Board: Brother Charles H. Grace, of Riverside.
to s ucceed Brother John Kahler; Brother Paul A. Brom, an Attorney
in Oakland, to succeed Brother Rue W. Sims; and Brother William
Schooler, of Redding. to succeed Brother Marion Long. All three of
these brethren are well qualified for their assignments and have been
doing a fine job for the Endowment since their appointmen ts.
OuR THANKS To ALL

It is impossible to adequately thank the very great number of brethren who have had a part in the Endowment work, and still more difficult
to name all of them. but we give a special thanks to: the Masters. who
have worked so hard that their lodge may have an outstanding record
during "their" year; the lodge Secretaries, who are the guiding light for
the Endowment in so many lodges and who do so much work for this
cause; the local Endowment Chairmen and their committees for their
devoted work; the Ins pectors and Assistant Grand Lecturers, who have
given so much encouragem ent to the lodge officers. whose influence and
efforts have been of such great value to this work, who have given such
excellent cooperation and assistance to the members of this Board; to
the Grand Master a nd all Grand Lodge Officers and Committeem en
who have given so freely of their encouragem ent. influence and cooperation; to Lloyd E. Wilson. Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary, and all members of their staff. for the most excellent assistance and cooperation given so willingly, cheerfully and
devotedly to the members of this Board in general and to its Chairman
in particular; and last, but certainly not least. to the 93,000 members of
this great fraternity who have contributed of their financial means to
"insure the continuance of loving care" to the residents of our two fine
Homes at Decoto and Covina; again , we say thanks a million to all who
have had a part, large or small, in this great Masonic work.
We sincerely hope that all will share with the Members of this Board

103

GRAND l.:ODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PRO CEEDINGS OP THE

in the thought that "we shall not rest on the accomplishm ents of the past
year but shall seek new horizons and greater heights for the year ahead.
. .

.

.

•,

THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWM ENT BOARD ·;
JOHN M. GORDON , Chairman

Vice-Chairm an (North)
KERMIT A . JACOBSON, Vice-Chairm an (South)
EDWARD H. SIEMS. P.G.M .• Treasurer · '
LLOYD E. WILSON, P.G.M .. Secretary

BYRON COLEMAN,

Terms Expiring

1959

1960

1961

0RNO E.' TYLER
KERMIT A. JACOBSON
ERNEST G. BASHOR
HORACE R. LA FORTUNE
PIXLEY
A.
MELVIN
DYKE
HENRY G. VAN
JoHN M. GoRDON
BYRON COLEMAN
LESTER A. PRICE
CHARLES H. GRACE
BROKAW
NORBERT W. M1xTER RALPH
. WILLIAM SCHOOLER
PAUL A . BROM
DAVEY
JOHN

w.

s.

ENDOWMEN T REPORT
CoNTRtBUT ioNs THROUGH THE LoocEs

1955 ........................................ ........ $311,005.10
1956 ................................................ 328,494.09
1957 ................................................ 372,083.61
1958 ................................................ 421,633.62
1959 ................................................ 502, 120.43
• RECEIPTS FROM ALL SOURCES

1955 ................................................ $576,647.66
1956 ................................................ 589.367.97
1957 ....................................... ......... 448,565.28
1958 ................................................ 589,730.78
1959 ................................................ 945,762.32
INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATI ON

1955 ........................................................ 67.684
1956 ....................................... ................. 69,213
1957 ........................................................ 79.995
1958 ........................................................ 81,686
1959 ........................................................ 93,425
HONOR LODGES

1955 .............................................................. 228
1956 ........................................ ...................... 237
1957 .............................................................. 285
1958 .............................................................. 365
1959 .............................................................. 153

.' .

lOi

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Organizations and Individuals :

ENDOWME NT FUND
GIFTS AND DONATIONS

Bequests and gifts have been received up to June 30, 1959 as follows :
Estate of:
Lawrence L. CallOQ.........................................................................................$ 1,000.00
330.09
EIJ%abeth D. Chamberlin................... ................. ..................... .......... ......

1,719.67

William D. Chamberlin ........................................................... ..................
Albert E. Di.akJa.._.......................................................... .............................

8,301.79

Horace Dunbar -····-···········-······-· ················- ············································
Abbie H. Garwood............... ... ... ...................................................................

198.00
500.00

Louis Gottlieb - ···························· ..................................................................

192.55

Edmund A. Lockett -····················································································
Alfred M. McCarty......................................................................................
R~ Evangeline SdmepL ............................... ..... _. ........ ....................... ..

99.00
1,000.00

Bertha Sherwood ..........................................................................................

902.01

100.00

James Shultz -··································-········- ······························· ·············· 50.000.00
28.30
Charles E. Skee:a..................................................... .........................................

Alfred J. Strei- -··-····················································································· ·· 2,250.00
Ria.sell H. Warcfm.._ .......... ·-···········- ··························-·······························
Fred Henry WJehn.................................................. ......................................

IOS

13-i.00

1,000.00

Elmer A. Zierke. ............................... ............................................................ 19,i91.87

Aerojet-General Corp. Employees................................................................$
Anchor Club. in name of Bob Barberla- ..···-·········-··············· ·····················
Lester 0 . Anderson..........·- --····---······---·····················-··-···············-Mark M. Balley...-······-·········- ·-·······- ·- ·······································-····- -··-·
H. F. Bames......................•............................. ·-···························· ·-······-·······
Reinhart Bartosch ·--········ ............................... ................. ············-··--···-···
Edward A. Bate~····-···-······· ··························································-······-·····
Martin Paul Berne..·-·-················································································
Herbert A . Bissonette .............................. ....................................................._.
Richard A . Cuddigan......._.........·-····-······························-···························
Daleth Chapter, Order of Golden Sllpper............................................._ ....
Finis H. Davis...-··············-·····-··-· ·-········--···········································-· ··
Mary Belle Etters..·-············-······························································· ·······~
Roy G. Ericksen. Jr...·-·--·····················- ·········································-··-····- ·
General Petroleum Employees' Tuscan Club.............................. ................
General Telephone Co. Employees..........- ...................................................

P. D. Gray~----------···-················-···· ····························· ····· ··············· ··

Frances N. Grinnan..- -··············································································
Louis G. Hamlin...- .......................................................................................
Harold E . Hulltoa...-·······-······- ····································································-·
Carl F. Isaac.son..._ .........- ..··-··················································--·················
Albert M. & M arion D. Jongeneel.............................................................. .
Knudsen Creamery Co. Employees.................................................. -.......... .
Kenneth D . Kyle.·--·········- ··- ······················-··································-· ··········
Don D. Marques&.-----·-·-· ·································································-···········
Ellis R. McKay.·--········································· ·············································-··
Ha rold D . MitdlelL...•.....................................................................................

23.50
13.00
2H8
2.of.00
25.65
2-i.OO

6.00
10.00
2i.OO
2.00
25.00
12.00
7.69
6.00
50.00
8.70
6.00
2.00
2-i.OO

6.00
29 ..of5
1.00
12.00

.so

9.60
11.iO

12.00

H .iO
Peter A. Moe.·---···································································· ················
2H8
Frank PoQteUo...-..-··-······--············ ........................................................... .
1250
San Jose Scottish Rite Bodies...- ............................... ....................................
San Marino Foundation, Inc .. _,_____......•........................ ............................... 250.00
12.50
Santa Clara V aUey OIBlcers hsn. .............................. ............................... .
9.60
Richard A. Sedin. Jr-····-·-··········································· ······························
1,000.00
······························
······························
Sence·-·····-·-··--·
I.
Grace
&
.
Ray E
12.00
Robert W. Sleeth..--······-·····--································································
2.00
··················
·······························
Joseph K. Smith.--····- -········--················
i .75
Super Concrete Emulsion, Ltd.. .............................................................. ......
of
12.5.
Hugh C. Thompaoa.....- ·-···--················································· ··················11.iO
Eugene W . Tolle.·---·-- ··················- ················-··································75.00
llti!Jty Square Oub·--··································-····························--········-···
25.92
Ruth R Week&..-·····-····························-······················································
1.90
Oaude W1lllam.s._ ________________________________...................................................- .•
Mrs. Pearl Wall&---························-·····················································-··

25.00

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·
MEMORIALS •

Deni se Anderson
Mrs. Marion Gay MacLise Alfred M. M cCarthy
Lawrence J. McDonald
Walter J. Anderson
Fraborn
Lawrence tynn Mclntush
John M. Ault
Mrs. Frances
Joseph D. McManus
Edward C. B<ibbitt
William Claud.is Frahm
Oliver A. Meister
Walter N. Ba ker
Arthur F. Frantz
Charles L . Meline
Sanford Maxon Barber
Otto Van Gabby
Paul Frank Meriam
Robert C. Barrett
Edward M. Gates
Mrs. Minnie Millsap
William C. Baud
Mrs. Elizabeth M.
Emory M athias Milner
Cleve Beck
Ghormley
Ral ph H. Morgan
Luther Edgar 13eckley
Edward J. Giebe
Hercule C. Morin
Carl Godfrey Bender
E. Virgil Givens
Henry H. Benedict
\Iva lter Elliot Glendinning Robert R. Moseley
Emil Antone Mueller
E. Louis Bensen
Roy C. Glover
George E. Munro
Robert B. Bigelow
Sa muel Graham
Robert Murgatroyd
Dr. Edward S. Blaine
Richard S. Gregory
Eugene \.V. Neal
Albert Bluett
Charles Cecil Grenman
C yrus M . Nielsen
J~•per A. Boge
D. J. Griffen
Jan P. Noble
Cyrus Boos
George Hale
Richard H . Bosse
Mrs. George (Laura) Hall Cla rence J. Nobman
Walter Burt Norto n
Jnmes Clyde Boy!es
James E. Hassan
Marcus Oistad
Mrs. Henrietta M aria Brandt Benjamin W. Hathaway
Richard Toppin On yon
Leslie Fred Brenneke
Mrs. Maude H. Helie-r
B. Joseph Ossola
Mrs. Vena Bromwell
John R. Henderson
Rus.sell Laurence Padden
Brother Bronnais
Harry H eron
}Wle Page
Forrest Brown
Thomas Edg ar Hicks
David B. Painter
H arold Daniel Brown
Richard H. Hillman
Benjamin R. Pa rron
Gordon Browne
Harry Bismark Hock
Robert L. Paull
James W. Brunner
Herbert H . Hopkins .
Stuart Luther Peck
Roy C. Bryan
Helen Lorenz Hostetler
Norman W. F . Pegg
Boyd Ray Cable
E dward B. Howe
Lester Penner
Hu,11h N. Cameron
Hugh Rowland Hughes
Ralph K. Pierson
C. J. Carey
Frank Hull
Lillian Pinney
James F. Cassidy
Daniel Bradley Hurlbut
Cliffo rd Charles P owell
Henry J. Chistensen
John Jacob Hyer
Gertrude May Provence
Eugene J. Clark
··Inez's" Mother
Cecil Quincey
Mrs. Clayton
Esther Jessie
Charles T. Quirey
Mrs. Byron Coleman
Elmer F. Jochim
P. S. Ramsden
Mrs. Frnnk Crayton
Earl Forte Jones
Myron Wray Reed, Sr.
Ralph Guild Curtis
Hurant Kasparian
Mrs. Dora Reese ·
Frank M. Czarnowski
John R. Kelso
Mrs. Edith Annar Relph
Edward Manley Davis
). Ross Kennedy
Lee Stewart Renfroe
Edgar B. D uwson
Chester Taylor Kinsman
Alfred John Richardson
Oran Day
A. W. Kleinenbroich
Lei:zer Riznik
Richard H . Derderdian
Sylvan H. Kline
Guy Robinson
Carl N . Dorman
Mrs. Emelia Koch
Charles W . Rodgers
Ernest F. Dreyer
Roland M. Kurtz
R. Gaylor Ro hrer
George Dunbar
James J. Lambrinox
fred Rullman
James Earl
Fredrick Louis Landman
Alexander Anderson Russell
Robert E. Ehorn
Henry Landsdale
George Rust
Guy T . Emmons
Edward V. Lemos
Miss Ruby Sage
Viggo Eriksen
\Valter R. Lindersmith
Edward Harin Sanders
James R. Eubanks
Mrs. John Lundblad
Milton D. Sapiro
C . J. E vans
George W. Lytle
Mrs. Schrednit:z "Mother
John Evans
Andrew Henry Maass
of John"
Walter J. Fabling
). C. Mabe
C. N . Scogg ins
.
Fl
t
h
Mrs.
Mary
Malley
H arry Lew1s c c er
Dan Maneval
Jess Seaman
Andrew Forbes
A. T. Manuel
Jo hn S. Segesman
Walter Dale Ford
George N. Martin
Alfred H . Serveau
William F. Fosbery
Wallace Theodore Masters Cla yton Leland Shaw
Mrs. Ida A. Shell
Henry D. Foulk
James Jacob McBride

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mrs . Eli zabeth Siebel
Elliot Maynard Smith
Prank Lloyd Smith
Frederick Stewart Smith
hn H. Smith
uliw; B. Springer
ary Irving Starratt
Fred Stoker
Mrs. Alma Sundquist
Arthur Edward Swinson
C . E. Tewsaw
Mrs. Margherita
E.Jizabeth Thate
Anna Marie Therkelscn
Eugene R. Thompson
John S. Thoza
Fred A. Timbers
Frank M. Toft

~

H arry F. White
Mrs. Henry Tonjes
Edward H . Towler
Charles W. Whitney
Harold C. \.Vhittlesl' r
Sylvia Trenholm
Roy H . W ickman
Arthur Roy Trogden
Oarence A . Trowbridge
Kruger W ilhelm Wilkie
Ernest E. Williams
Samuel Troxel
Henry Bell Truitt
John D . Williams
Edward Wallace Turner
Monty \.Villiams
Mrs. Elizabeth Herd V09eli Ray Marvin \.Villiams
William D . W illiams
Robert L. \ Vade
Albert Matthias Wahl
Henry Leo \Villman
Henry Ed_gar W inans
Hugh W allace
Harry L. W intersgill
James L. Wallace
Jo hn Willtam Walter
William Earl Wright
Walter Lane Yourt
\.Valton's Father
Mrs. Gll'nn Zeller
Theodore D. W ashburn
Norton Chamberlain W ells Laura Zimmerman
Harry E. Werner

107

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP 'l'HE

108

% Membership

HONOR ROLL

No.

% Membership
No.

Lodge

Members

Participation

Total

1 California....-----------------···------······ 492----··-··············-- 34_...........................$1,660.00
3 Tehama.----------------------·-------·-······· 828..----------------·---····· 71............................. 3,417.35
5 Benicia...------------·-····-------------····· 233.---------------········ 54 ............... ------------- 710.00
10
12
18 Mountain Shade.••..---················· 51.---··············----··· 76............................. 115.00
20
21
22 OccldeotaL......................... _........ 657.........----·-··------··· 43----·---------············ 1,410.00
23 Madison......................................... 334....------·--·-··-··· 37 ··------·------·-----------· 672.05
24
25
26
35
40
41 Martinez.......... ------·----------------------· 437............................ 75•...........................• 1,665.13
42
45
50 Forbestown................................... 118.........................-. 42............................. 266.00
55 Suisun.................--------··········-······· 271.-------------------··---- 34............................. 606.91
56 Volcano.......................................• 101.·-························ 47............................. 244.50
58 Union...------·-------------------------------- 748............................ 44•.....................,...... 1,800.00
59
1
60
61 Live Oak............................•.......... 971 .......................- ..- 28 .....----------------------· 2,305.00
64 Natoma........................................ 337..................------·-· 52............................. 826.00
68
79
80 Ione........·--·--··········-··················- 96............................ 57 ·-·-----------············ 201.00
87 NavaL..·-····································· 1194.............----·····-··· 55------------------------·· 2,951.50
93 St. Helena........-----······················ 133........·-···········-···· 51----·-····················· 266.50
95

~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~t::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l:l~~:~8
~=!~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ ~M:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i:~~:~

209
211

¥1~:!-~-~-~~~::·_:::·.-.::·_-_-_:::·.::::::::::·_: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~:M

221
226
228
233
236
237
241
242
243
247
254
259
262
264
267
272
273
274

e~€~::_:_~:_:_:::~:_::_::::_::~::_:_:_~~::::~-~ ~L::::::::::::::::::=:: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: l.~~!:~

tiJ=:::::::::.-:::::::::::::::::::.-:::::.~::::.-: ~~L::::::::::::::::::~~ ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1.~~~W
39............................. 802.00
120
127 fl:!!:;";:_::.-.-:.:~.----:-_::::::·.-_·_·_:-.-:.-.-.~-~-:-.-.-~ ~~~::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1.~!~:~
128 Visalia..••••..••••...........---················ 576--------·······--····-· 38-······--------------------· 1, 198.52
132
141 ~rot?.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1ii:::::::::::::::::::::= ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~:~
143 Franklin....---···········-------------····· 137...-----------··-······-·· 55---------------------····· 391.00
144
146 ~1.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~:::::::::::::::::::: ~=:::::::::::::::::::::::: 1,~~:~

110
111
117 Concord.......................................• 385.......................-

149
156
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
182
184

207
208

g::z~:::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::: ~~L:::::::::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l~~:~

~=fci~-~:::::::::::::::.-:::.-::::.-.-:::::: ~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~1:::::::::::::::::::::::::: l:ii~:~

106

191
192
194
195
198
200
202
203

212
214
215
219

~~r~ee~~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: lg~t::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:i~i:~
~!s~J~~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~::::::::::::::::::::::~~::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1,~~~:gg

104

Lassen..·-········-----·-·············--- 244-----·--···-··-······· 41 _ ......................-

Woodland.....................-----------·-- 299....---·-············-··· 52--·-··············-----Harmony....................................... 29....·-··-············- 41-..........................
Excelsior....------··············------------- 443........·-········--- 37 -···························
Alameda........................................ 233·-··········--············ 33_..........................

109

510.00
665.00
58.00
966.00
514.00

~~~~-~~~::::.-::.-.-::.-:::::::.-.-.-:.-::.-:::. ~~::::::::::::::::=:: ;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l:j~fo

Elk Grave......·-······-···················· 146....·-··-····-·······-- 51............................. 396.50
Drytown........•.....·-·····················- 63..............·-·····-·- 29 _.......................... 130.00
Antioch...--····················-··········-· 393.........---···-·····-- 43............................. 989.73
Phoenix...---·-········--·················· 749·-··-··-····-····--··· 53.·----··········-··········· 1,640.00
Arbuckle.---·-·········-··-···-·····- 84-·······--····--·- 40--························ 173.24
Sierra Valley.....••.......••••·-··········· 35...........---·--·-······ 43............................. 100.00

220

277
278
280
281

283
287
289
290
291
292
295
296
299
300
302
305
307

'°8
309

313
315
319
320
321
322

Lodge

Members

Participation

Total

110

% Membership
Total
Participation
Members
Lodge
2,356.20
·-·····
21-···-···-·-······
·--······
................
821
Whittier..................- ....................
Corona. ............. ·-························- +t5..........·-···--······- 41-··········-·-· ·-····· 983.24
875.50
Needles. .......·-······-·······- -··-- 357_ _ _ _ _ _ 100...·-··--·--··Long Beach. ..••.·-··-··-·················· 626......·-·················- 24--···-······-············ 1,359.97
Redondo........................................ 703.....·-···-···-····-- 32 ..·-···········--········· 1,565.85
Vallee de Prance..........·-··········-· 129..·-·-·-·-·--·-·- 100......_......-............. 292.70
Kilauea.......................................... 200...............·-·········· 60............................. 662.50
San Pedro.............................·........ 511 ....·-········-········· 33 ...........·--········-··· 1,061.54
.AJta__·- ············-·······-·· ············- 131·-··-- - --- - -··· ti ...........·--············ 266.00
Covina........................................- . 464.----····-···· -·····- 47 .........·-················· l,056.go
West Gate.--·-·········" "-···--······-122 6._........--···-·····- 38--···-········--········· 2,636.00
PruJtvale-··········-··- -········- ·····-· 820......·-···-······-····· 90-·-- ···-···-··· 1,684.95

No.
323
324
326
327
328
329
330
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339 Puilerton.........................- ............ 392-··-······- -········· "······-····-·············· 871.50
343 San Fernando..........·-············-···· 721....·-····-······-······· 55 ...·-················-····· 1,647.04
344 Starr King-···················-············- 523......·-·····-············ 43 .....·-····-··--········· 1,086.50
346 Palo Alto·-··-····-··· ·-·-- -·-- 752----- ··- 51 ·-········- ··············· l ,886.50
349
351
352 Sunaet...-----· ·············--·- ··-· 345-····-·---- --··· 65--·--·····-···-···· 1,127.21
355 Hollywood.-................................. 1262....._____............. 31 ...........-................ 3,209 .25
356 Mill Valley......................·--········ 439.......-·-··--·········· "-····-········- -····- 932.50
357 Buena Park-········-- ··-··············· 308-·--·- ·······100._.....- .. ··········-·-· 647.50
358 Golden State................................. 696-······-···-·············· 30.........·-··-····-····: 1,521.26
360 San Francisco............................... 279·-·······-·-··········-· 43 ...........·-··-······-··· 630.50
362
366
367 South Pasadena............................ 630..·---··--·-····-·· · 27 ............................. 1,273.87
368 Unity............................................. 612·-·-····-···· -···- 60-··················-·-- l,875.65
369 Ocean Park...................·-·- ········· 531 ....·--···-·····-······· 29............................. 1,163.76
370 Amitv--··-················-··················· 399....·--··················· 42 ...............·--········· 805.00
371 le Progres de L'Oceanfe............. 7 H - -··-·-·-···· 37................ - ........... 1.470.00
372 Gardena._..................................... 470·----·-····· ·-····-· 36 .......·-···-·············· l,019.80
373 West Los Angeles....................... 490·-···········-···-··-·· 42-·····-········- ····-- l,409.00
881.50
376 ' Francis Drake·-··········-············- 429-···· - · - · - - - 37............... ·-·····378 Mizpah.._·-·················-·············· 404......••....·---··-··· 52.____________;............. 1,881.25
379 Fillmore......................................... 245....·--··-···-······· 34--····-·······-· ·-·-- 534.50
..... +L--··----- -- 1.054.81
381 Oceanside..................................... 501
382 Highland Park.............................. 624-·········-·--········· 37--··-····-···-····-· l,284.10
383 Orosi............................................. 150...............·--··-··· 68-·········--·······-····· 451.00
384 El Centro....................·.................. 516_____ _ _ 5 3 - -- --···-· 1,559.00
387 Coalinga...................................... _ 389......·-···-··-···-·- 55.·-···-··--··· ·-···· I, I 08.00
388 Parnassus...................................... 747-·····-··- -·-··- "·-··············· --···· 1,505.00
391 East Belt.·-·--·--· ····--·····- 115-.._ _ _ _ _ +t-·-·-··· ·-- 237.00
392 West Lake.........·-···-··-·······- · 822-··-·-- ···- 37 ····-·············-··-··· 2,530.87
393 Balder............................................ 493·--·-········· -······· 43-·········--· ·-···- l,229.50
394 University...........-······················- 568-·-····-·- ··-··· 24······-····-·-·- -····· 1,258.18
395 Turlock......................................... 420....!...·-····-····-······· 46...............·-··-······· 897.00
396 Apollo..........................................• 458·-··-···-····- -·-·-· 37.....·-··············-····· 932.00
397 Rising Llght......... _. ____________ 1032_.............- ..····-· 26--···-·······-·- ·-· 2.546.74
399
400
401 Bay View..................·- -······-··· 675--···--· -··· 41-- --····--·· 1.544.61
402

=:~::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::: f~::::::::::::::~.::::= ~==:::::::::::::::::: ~~tgg

~:?:;::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l~~=:::===-=::::-~ fi::::::::::::::==~~=::: f:6~~:~g

f!':i~~;~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· .~:~:.::::=::::::::::: ~==::::::=:::::::: 2.~~~:~8

~::m~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~=:::::::::::::: 11:=::::::::::::··:::::::: l:~lHi&
405 ~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~=::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:::::::::::::::::::::::: I.~~:~

406 BurbanJc__ .•..••....•- .•·..............•••..• 848......;......- ..······-·· 35-·····-·-···_;··-· 1,935.40

407 La Mesa. .................•...:.................. 632._..:........·--········· 41............................. 1,570.86

409 Honolulu................•• ~: ..•............... 416·-·•·······- --·-·- 57 .....................·--··· 1,466.00
412 Calexico.-··· ····-·······--·-- ·-·- 145
·····- 37 ......... --···········-··· 507.00

111

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OP THE

% Membership
Total
Partlcipa·tlon
Members
Lodge
608.50
.........
39....................
·······303·-···············
.............
414 Arl.lngton.........................
415 Silver Trowel.........."..................... 419.........•..............•.•. 29....................~ ........ 1,024.00
416
417
1
418
419
420
421 Inglewood................,.................... 767........................ .... 42............................. 1,861.18
422 Eagle Roc:k. .. _............'............•..... 520.....:..................•... 43_·······-·····- ········;..· 1,248.86
424 Exet~·-······················-·················· 233.......:.................... 38-················-···-·-· 555.50
430 McCloud....................................... 105.....,...................... 47 .......·-··················· 229.00
No.

g::.::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::: m::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1~::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ lj~~:~

E:::::::::::~~:::: : : : : : : : : : :~_::.1!l:: : : : : : : : : : : : : il:::.~::::::::::::::::::::: ·m:~

434

436

~::i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ?~t::::~:::::::::::::::::::: ~=::::::::::::::::::::::. l~1:}5

437 Lancaster.:.........,........................... 502....•:...................... +t-·-·-···········-···'·:.. 1,300.00
438 Acacia_......................................... 43....·-············-······· 40............................. 111.00

HI
442
443
444
445
447
448
450
451
452
453
457
458
462
464
465
467
469
470
471
475
476
477

Coronado............................ ·-······· 419....:....................... 43............................. 974.00
Blackrner.................... :.................. 1221 ............................ 36............................. 2,752.45
Schofield....................................... 322.................·-······· 50_·························- 654.25
Carpinteria................................... 129.....c•••••••••••••••••••• _ 57.....................:....... 329.00
Wilshire........................................ 516................·-········· 41-··········-········-..'- 2,438.00
Torrance....................................... 556............................ 29--·············-········· 1,145.72
Mount Diablo............................... 436............·-············· 35................;.....-....: 1.003.00
Van Nuys..................................... 1141 .........-.............•.... 35-....................•..•... 2,294.33
MontebeHo.................................... 715.....~ ................•.... 35 .................•........... 1,448.61

~iliFet.::.~.:::·.-.-.-.·.:::~.::::-.-.·.-.:·.·.-.·.-.-.-.-.·.:·: ~~1:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::~:~:::::::::::::: ·~~~:U
.:~::::: ~:m::~
~°S:·~~-.-.:::·.-.:::~::·.-.·.-.:-.-.-.-.-.:-.-.-.-.: ~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::::::::::'
...:'........,................ 1,575.50
1

P~evere.................................. 6.14 ........................._ 42
Alta Vtata..................................... 250........................•... 34 .......:.·-················· 584.lO
Center............................................ 568............................ 41 .......................•....'. 1,157.50

~ ::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::: ·1g~:~~
~~~~ &~;.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.~.-.-:.-.-.-.-.-.:·.:·.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-~ 1:L::::::::::::::::::::::::: 48-························· 913.30
1

Lincoln........................................•. 342............................
Delta.............................................. 509.....:........................ 35 ............. :............... 1,052.00
Amenc:a....................................... _ 475............................ n ..:...............'........... 1,678.27
Coachella................... :.................. 241 ...............·-········- Sf............................. 579.65
Temblor.......................................• 155.........:.................. 36............................. 313.50
479 Golden Rule..............:................... 690......•...................... 38 ......................·-··· l,487.00
481 Mt. Davld80n..........:.................... 384•••...... :............•....• 47 ............................. 1,038.75
482 Clarence F. Smith........................ 357.... .'....................... 47............................. 905.00
483 Bell.__............-·-··························- 797............................ 37 ............................. 1,873.90
484 Albert Pike..................................• 2+t............................ 27......•........ :............. 501.58
490 Corcoran....................................... 136............................ 67............................. 385.50
492 Garvanza...................................... 335·-··············-········· 32...........................- 907 .62
493 Atascadero.................................... 140._......................... 43-·---··•··············· 309.34
494 Acorn............................................ 610............................ 41 ............................. 1,431.25
495 Lebanon.......................................- 426._......................... 37 ···················-····•··· 854.00
497 Prearont. ......................... ............... 542.......................- .... 42.•.................:......... 1,351 .15
499 Capital Qty.............L.................... 636............................ 55 ............................: 1,385.00
500 Roosevek...................................... 218............................ 33............................. 440.50
501 Westwood...............................•.... 274.....:.....•................ 61 ..................:.......... 703.50
504 Seaside...................................•...... 556............................ 27 ............................. 1,334.57
·505 Sliver Cord. ..................- ....•......... 529._........................ 45-·········-··············· 1,134.79
506 Mount Olive..............;.................. 916--························ 31-........................... 2,037.16
509 Benjamin Franklin..:.................... 346.....- ..:......·-········· 23--··--···········•··!..- 778.66
513 Cahuenga.. _____ :..................... 552-..-::.................. 88-················--······· 1.418.85
515 Vermont Square........................._ S02·-························· 39 .....................;...•.... 1,028.88
516 Taft._········-···-······~·-··············- 324.--.:····-············· +t-·····················'···· · 680.00
519 Euclid..•.·-···-···-····-·· ····-··--- 385_..:·-····-····- 27 ______ :_~·-····-··· . 790.74

112

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

% Membership
Total
Participation
Members
Lodge
No.
520 Ionic-- --·-·--·· ·-·····-·· ·····-···- 1108-•.- ................... 43 ............................. 2,300.00
....·-····- 508.00
521 Piedmont....---·-···· -····-··· ····· 251_,_................... 23 ............................
. 1,422.77
522 Sunrise.......................................... 309....................- ..... 65 ......................- ... 1,583.63
523 Bellftower...................................... 615.--....................... 40 ..............
..... 336.69
524 Catalina Island. ............................ 156--······················ 62........................
_... 919.50
525 George Washin gton.................... 459............................ 40.......................
............... 1.192.99
528 Beverly Hills................................ 577............................ 28 .......................
_._ 1,581.00
..............
529 Loyalty......................................... 599............................ 28
... ___ 366.02
531 Alexandria.................................... 178_......... _. _ _ 57 ..............
533 Azure............................................. 343.......- ................... 48................._ _ 900.15
535 Alexander ·Hamilton.................... 303-···········-·········..·· 32 .................·-··-··· 646.60
512.50
536 Seal Rock.·-···-·····-··················· 2ot..... _..................... ""····-··· ···-··--- -- 1,457.'l.7
537 lkopla....._ ........-........................ 691 ............................ 30-···-·· ··--····-- ····538 Ascot............................................. 359·-···- ···-······· ·-··· 35--··- ·····--- ··" 800.12
540 Queen Beach............................... . 193.-....................... 40-·- ··-·-- - 405.00
542 North Hollywood........................ 1069.-····-········---······ '1.2 ............................. 3,587.21
543
544
l,679.79
546 San Gabriel.................................. 54.9.--···----········· 52----·· ··548

~1~:~i;J~:::::::::::::::::::·.:::::::·.·.:::::::::: ~11:::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: l:ii8:1~

550

Ei~:::::::::::::_::::::::::::::::::: ~~· ~=~:::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~:~

551
688.00
552 Semper Virens.............................. 338.•- ..................- ..• 44............................._ 980.45
.............
..............
48
·-·····-··--·
483--·............
556 Fairfax..............................
805.00
558 Point Firmin................................. 357...·-·-····-·····-······ 40............................. 858.00
560 Plymouth...................................... 407.....-..................... 41.............................
..... 931.64
563 South Park._................................. 418-· ····-·· -- 32.............................
711.43
565 West.Ad ams................................ 350.......................- ... 20........................
. 1,320.00
566 James A. Garfteld.......................... 250•....·-···-·······-····· 52 ............................
915.75
568 Park Boulevard............................ 441 ............................ 35 .....................·-····· 1,263.25
574 S. W. Hackett.............................. 625............................ 32.............................
................... 400.00
575 Fort Crook.•.- ............................. 199............................ 67..........
576 El Cajon Valley........................... 497............................ 46 ............................. 1,207.81
......... _.... 947.99
577 Sunnyside..................................... 434---·· ···-·--··· ····· 34............................
1,141.01
578 Progressive................................... 547............................ 38.............................. 1,342.50
579 Warren G. Harding .................... 641 .......................- ... 62 ..............
580 Santa Mana ............................... _ 122............................ 91 ............................. 300.83
581
582
767.75
583 Wasco........................................_ 346.................- ...•...• 41............................. 620.00
584 Harding......................................... 303............................ 25.........................._ 922.50
585 Manchester................................... 381 ............................ 44.............................
586 Garden Grove.............................. 369............................ 48............................. 913.25
587 Valley Forge................................ 401·---· ···-········ ·-··· 29-···············-·····-··- 1,021.16
588 El Sereno...................................... 452..."················--·..··· 49.................•...•. _ ... 1,105.24
589 Kauai. ............................................ 116..•.•- ..................... '1.8 ........................ _.. 428.00
590 Compass........................................ 345....-...................... 51............................. 753.25
592

~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::: ~U:~~

593

594
595
596
598
599
600
601
602

I~!~~::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : m::::::::::::::::::::::::: *::::::::::::::::::::::::::: !:~!i:~

............. 1.772.63
Alexander Graham Bell... ............ 292............................ 71............................
_ 2.324.33
Guardian..................-............... .... 1003-.......................... 60............................
. 1,446.50
Pearl Harbor..........•....................• 592........•................... 43..............

:::: ~?:::::::::::::::::::::::: 1.~~:~?
e:.~:::::::::::::.·::::::::::::.·::::::::::~ ~~!:::::::::::::::::::::····
83............................. 266.00

Grlzzly......--··-··-·· -·····..·····-····· lll·--··· ··-···-···
---·Melrose......................................... 264-···· ······-·-· ·--- 32..·-·-··.........
__
603 Dimond......................................... 295._....................... 40..............
604 Jubilee........................................._ 413---·· ·······-··· ····· 40 ........................-...
605 Ghusdl Park............................ _. 417.-···-··-··········-··· 47....·---- --·-

581.73
630.22
963.25
864.88

113

% Membership
Total
Participation
s
Member
Lodge
1,806.64
.
..........•...
..............
32
..............
..............
850
Granada. .......................................
1,022.50
Provident...................................... 504......•............_....... 39 ....- .......................
·-··· 38............................. 569.00
Elmhur st..-······················-·········· 283·-························
38............................. 855.38
Canoga.......................................... 398·-··············-···
43........................... _ 1,610.00
T~ple Qty................................• 553.....- .....................
..... 925.00
Three Pillars................................. 456.....~..................... 39........................ . 1,019.50
Larchmont..................................... 424............................ 48 ............................
. 548.25
Hemet........................................... : 226......-................... 59 ............................

No.
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
622
50 ....................·-····· 4,592.10
623 Mi-..norah....................................... 1055............................ 84
............................. 1,512.50
..............
..............
724
...
..............
..............
Mesa
Angeles
625
............... 1,367.75
..............
41
······
··············
627·-·-··
.....
..............
..............
626 Chula Vista
...... 765.80
..............
4.5.........
..............
..............
246
···········
628 Truth......·-··-·····················
36.................-.......... 925.00
629 Fairview .·--··········-····-··········-·· 309-·-·· ···-·············· 36..........
................... 628.1 0
631 Benevolence................................• 264............................ 37...................·-···-- 1,651 .90
.........
..
..............
817
............
632 Normal Henghts..............
............................. 1,544.00
633 Poinsett ia..................................... 758............................ 45
............... 1,160.12
635 Riverside ....................................... 553......._................... 54. ..............
................... 610.00
636 John Marshall............................. _ 300·-···· -·-······-· ······ 31..........
.......................•..... 1,881.78
637 Palisades....................................... 454............................ 60
639
641
642
33............................. 766.23
644 Lomita........................................... 374............................ 51..........
................... 352.75
646 Metrooolitan............................ ..... 169.......•................•...
38......................._ ... 1,321 .22
647 Hawtho."ne.................................... 592.......................- ...
................... 949.15
649 Florence........................................ 460.........................-. 28............................. 635.04
650 La Brea......................................... 280.......•... - ...........•... 41..........
37 ...._:...................... 648.52
651 Menlo Park................................... 321-····-·-················ 32
.........................._. 1,217.28
..............
..............
596
...........
..............
Valley
ta
Crescen
552
654
656
................... 485.93
659 La Habra....................................- 227............................ 37..........
................... 659.40
28..........
_
...........
..............
302
....
..............
..............
Park
660 Baldwin
....-......... 577.58
..............
34
..............
..............
261
661 Malta.......·-·-································
662
663
l
665
.......................- .. 1,683.04
666 Resecla........................................... 664.•......·-···········-··· 44
............... 1,150.80
667 Meridian....................................... 539............................ 33 ..............
668
674
................... 817.03
677 Liberal Arts.................................. 375....................... ___ 80.......... ............... 1,238.83
678 Altadena....................................... 564......·-··--· -··- 41 .......................·-··· 492.50
680 Carmel.......- .................................. 242·-····-··············-·- 33 ..............
············ ··-- 398.50
681 Dos Palos...................................... 154.......-................_ "··········
............... 1,018.20
682 Barstow......................................... 406.......................- ..• 74 ..............
683
684
_.............. 1,935.50
685 San Marino................................... 447............................ 73 .............
····-·- 550.00
686 Albany.........................................• 22'1....·--········ ·········- 54...... ·-····-····
__ 187.00
689 Pohona.......................................... 84..........·-····-········· 71 .........................
894.64
.....
..............
48..........
.......
..............
....
419
....•......
690 San CarloL .......-...............
.......... l,062.00
691 Indian Wells Valley.................... 409......-.....-............. 8 1 -...........
............._ 527.50
692 Travelers. ..................................... 214......................_ 43..............
··· 555.55
·-··-·····............
46
..............
..............
216
....
..............
693 Palm Springs..............

t~~~~~:::::::~::~:~::::~~::~:::::::: !~!:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ii:::::::::=::::::::::::::: iii:gg

~:.~:.:::::::::::::::::::·.~.::·.:·~::::::·.~~--·.: ~~?::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: g~~:~

l;~~!~~~: : : : : : : : : : : : : lit:::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::=::::::::::::::::: ::ffi:~8

~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~L::::::::::::::::::::::: :i::::::::::::::::::::::= ~~~:~g

~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::=:=~~= ill:::::::::::::::::::::::= !i::::::::::::::::=:::::: ,~~:~

r.: ~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::: d~~:38

~:~.~~~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~jg:~

114

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

% Membership

% Membttship
No.
694
695

696

697
698
699
700
701
702
703
704
705
706
707
708
709
710
711
712
713

714

715
716
717
718
719
720
721
722
723
724
725
727
728
729
730
731
732

Lodge

Members

Participation

Total

~~~~~~~~=~~~ m~~~; ~~~~~~~~~ m:~

~m. ~ephens........................

149................·-········· 59............................. 961.50
p ixble
lls......·-····-·················· 335 .....·--·······-········· 59.·-······················ ·- 1,020.00
on erosa.--·-······························ 351............................ 56 ...........................- 761.00
Santa Ynez Yaney...................... 121.......................... _ 69............................. 301.50

~~;.~~:::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::: ?~:::::::::::::::::::::~:: ~~:::::::::::::::::::::::.~:= ~:!1~:~
~1 Cemtp-·······N·······
unters oint

···················· 188-·········-··············· 48 .......·-···················
aval ................... 241._.......................- 58----·······················

428.75
627.25

~J~~~~
-:~~
rn~~~;~
i~~~~~
'·~~
14kes.....·-··-·························

~jst:ro Valley......... _.................... 244...........- ............... 17-··········-···············

ue
184-····-···-······-··- ·- 76__ .......................
rtagno la Park.._........................ 208·-···-············· ··· 45--···········-······-····

545.50
517.79
493.00

~~~lI~I:.1~ I~~~ l~~g~ I
San Ramon Valley...................... 150........,................... 30-·····-·····················
Saint John's. ....- ............................ 187...........................• Sf.............................
Verdugo Hills...._...................... _ 93·-···-·············-··· 71-·····-····-········--·

336.50
487.75
287.16

734

736
737
738

739

orningside Park........................ 162...·-··-·········-······-100.-..······-···············

695.77

aude H. Morrison.................... 91...·-·····-······-···-·· 68--··········-··········

258.25

........................... _ 122..·-···-·-················ 52--·······-········..:...
L amill'on.....-................................ 122............·--·-········· 49---·················--···
752
uther Burbank............................ 146....................... ____ M--··-~·-·-·-······-···
753 Lawndale...................................... 155--··················-·· 58 ..........---····-·········
754 San Pablo...............................--··- 88·-··--··········-··· - 27 ...............·-···········
755 Golden BoWl.---···-········-············· 130..·-·······-·······-······ 65 .............................

251.63
260.50
351.10
404.50
189.00
383.58

~~~~::~~=~ !~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~1i

i1~!1:t::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~~:::::::::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::::::::::::: jrn:~&
750 H othtt Colony
751

No.

Lodge

Members

Participation

Total

~n ~'§~~~~~ :n~~~ ~~~~~ ~t~
m~~?:i~~~~:~~~~~ :~~~~!~~~~::;~ I.iii:~
765 Dana~. Weller........................... 106............................ 79·-·················-·······
766 James H. Kew·-························- 113---···-·-········ ·- 69 .....·-············-·······
767 Wm. Rhodes Hervey.................. 104...·--···-··········-·- 85_···············-··-···-

251.00
407.85
669.00

771

Mission Bay.................. ·-············· 108...........- .......•.....-100 ___············-·········-

244.50

776 East Whittier................ ·-··········- 102.---··-··--·--- ··· 70_..·-···--···-·······777 Pinnacle.......-····················-········- 47............................ 83......·-·········-·········

254.10
94.00

~~g e~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:::::::::==::::::::::: n=:::::::::::::::::::::::::: U~:~

~~~ ~~kiki::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1 ~::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~t:::::::::::::::::::::::::: urn&
~~~ ~v~=~~.-:-.~:~.-.:·.::::=::::·.-.::·:.-.-.~ ~t:::::::::::::::::::::-.:: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~M:~~
780
781
782
783
784

RlvierL-..---··················-········Rolllng Hills...·-················-········
Silverado.......................................
Mojave-···-····- ··--·-··········
Leland Stanford...........................

84......·-········---- 76_·-········-·-·-·-·- 85·-·············-·-·····- 61·-··········-·············
79.........·-·············- 66-···-····-··-···--·-··
65..·-····-·······-·-- 55_··············-··········
76.-·--··-····-·····-· - 59 ....................-.......

588.00
414.91
175.00
198.00
158.50

Westminster................................. 61 ...............---·-··---100.........................-Sierra--···-·····················-····-········ 62...................... _ 98..........................._
Oak Plains........·-······-················· 58·-······················-· 52....•.•...·-················
Gen. Henry H. Arnold................ 57................·-········· 47 ...................... _.....
UD. Mt. Wilson.---·-···················-·· 58-···-··-··-·-·· ··100 .....-·····-··-·-······
U.D. American River............................ 48.........·-······-···--· 56 .....·-·····················
So. Calif. Research.,...............·-·-·········· 104.....................·-···· 48 ...·-················-·····

133.00
274.50
139.00
114.00
124.00
113.50
210.00

~~~ Eia:u~u:~::::::::::::::::::::::::=::=::: ~L:::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: gt~
787
788
789
791

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

733

740
741
742
743
744
745
746
747
748
749

115

116

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 5 A. M. of California:
The Board of Control is pleased to submit its annual report covering
the activities of our eighteen Boards of Relief and five Employment
Bureaus maintained within our Grand Lodge jurisdiction.
It is gratifying to report that the work being done by our Executive
Secretaries and Employment Managers is continuing to measure up to
the high standards of our Fraternity. These devoted Masons go far
beyond the call of duty in carrying out their work. The Board of Con~
trol appreciates their endeavors and wishes to commend them for the
unselfish manner in which they approach their task and discharge their
duties. I am sure that this Grand Lodge agrees with us in our com~
mendation of these great and devoted Masons.
BOARDS OF RELIEF

At the present time, we have in our jurisdiction eighteen Boards of
Relief. The activities of these Boards are supervised by the Board of
Control. This is accomplished by supplying each Board a set of Rules
and Regulations and also a Standard Practice Bulletin, the latter having
been prepared several years ago in order that we would have uniformity
in policy, statistical reporting, financial reporting, and the various other
factors that are included in the work of these Boards.
The Rules and Regulations cover many items such as method and
procedure for holding elections, committees required, function ef these
committees, and instructions on how the work of the officers is to be
conducted.
The Board of Control also holds at least three meetings each year
with the Boards of Relief in order that we can have personal contact
with the Executive Secretaries, Employment Managers, and Officers of
our Boards of Relief.
After carefully analyzing the reports that have been submitted by
our eighteen Boards of Relief, we submit the following statistics for the
Masonic year ending June 30, 1959.
Advanced for Relief.................................... $40,222.29
Funerals ConductecL ..............................................981
Total Calls Made................................................ 30,177
Calls on the Sick. ................................................. 9,467
Investigations Conducted .................................... 2.536
Relief Calls............................................................ 8,113
Miscellaneous Calls............................................ 10.061
As you can see from these figures, many man hours are required to carry
on this vital work. It should also be remembered that a considerable
portion of this activity takes place after normal working hours.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

117

BLOOD BANKS

Many of our Boards of Relief maintain blood banks, and those who
do not have such banks usually make some other provision wherein they
can supply blood not only to our Masonic Brethren but also. to ~embers
of their families. The activities of these blood banks are rapidly mcreas~
ing. and the following figures will give you an indication as to the extent
of their activities during the past Masonic year.
Units of blood donated........................................ 2,969
Units of blood withdrawn ....................................3,309
Actual Cost Saved our Brethren................ $81,773.00
EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

The Rules and Regulations prepared by the Board of Control make
it possible for Boards of Relief to also have Employment Bureaus. All
requests for the formation of Employmen~ Bureaus must b_e ~p~ro~ed
by the Board of Control. In our California Grand Lodge _JUt1sd1ction,
we presently maintain five Employment Bureaus. You will note that
the number of Employment Bureaus has been reduced from six to five
since our last Grand Lodge Communication. This reduction was caused
by the discontinuance of the Glendale Employment Bureau and was
brought about because unemployment in this particular area was so low
that it was not felt advisable to continue this Bureau. As you are well
aware, the expense of maintaining Employment Bureaus is considerable,
and your Board of Control is constantly obs~ng the placements m~de
in comparison to the expense involved. It might be ~ell t~ mentio~
that the Glendafe Board of Relief made the request to discontinue their
Employment Bureau, and due to the circumstances, it was immediately
approved by the Board of Control.
The following figures will give you an idea of the activity in our
Bve remaining Employment Bureaus for the past Masonic year.
Registered for Employment.. ..............................7,007
Jobs Sec:ured.......................................................... 1,423
Positions Offered by Employers ..........................4,319
All of our Employment Bureaus operate without making any charge to
either the employee or the employer for this service. There are in the
State of California many employment agencies which charge a fee for
their services. The amount of the fee that can be charged is regulated
by the State of California. If this same fee schedul~ had b~en used
by our Employment Bureaus during the ~ast ~~omc year, it w~uld
have cost our Masonic Brethren and their famihes who secured Jobs
through our Employment Bureaus the sum of $112,736.95. Stating it
another way, the members of our Fraternity and their families actually

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

saved $112,736.95 by virtue of making use of the services of our Employment Bureaus.
While the Board of Control feels that securing positions for our
people is a very worthwhile undertaking. we must not lose sight of the
cost involved in performing this service. These costs have been continually rising, and the Board of Control wishes to report to this Grand
Lodge that we are continuing our investigation in an effort to reduce
these costs.

REIMBURSEMENT TO THE SACRAMENTO BOARD OF RELIEF

118

APPROPRIATIONS

It has been the custom of our Grand Lodge to -give financial assistance to our Employment Bureaus where such is deemed necesary. The
Board of Control has made a careful analysis of the appropriations being
requested by the various Employment Bureaus and makes the following
recommendations for the ensuing Masonic year.
East Bay ......................................................$ 2,500.00
'Long Beach ................................. ................. 2,294.00
Los Angeles..................................................
0
San Diego .................................................... 3,042.00
San Francisco ................................. ............. 2,500.00
TOTAL........................ $10,336.00
The Board of Control has ref erred the matter of appropriations to
the Chairman of the Finance Committee as required by the Ordinances,
Section 265 of the California Masonic Code.
REIMBURSEMENTS TO MASONIC BOARDS OF RELIEF

As previously mentioned in this report, our eighteen Boards of Relief
advanced more than $40,000.00 to sojourners and their families during
the past Masonic year. These cases are all very carefully analyzed by
the Executive Secretaries of our Boards of Relief. and an effort is made
to get reimbursements from the sojourner's home lodge. It is gratifying
to know that out of $40,222.29 advanced for relief during the past yeM,
only $763.61 was not repaid by the sojourner's Lodge.
REIMBURSEMENT TO THE SAN FRANCISCO BOARD OF RELIEF

The San Francisco Board of Relief has requested $753.61, which
covers three cases, one of which is a Brother from Scotland and the other
two cases are from Lodges in the State of Illinois. They are all worthy
cases, and the Board of Control has recommended that the Finance
Committee approve the reimbursement to the San Francisco Board of
Relief.

119

This case involves only $10.00 whkh was used to purchase a floral
piece for a departed sojourner. There was no time to contact the Lodge
prior to making this purchase, and, as a result, the departed brother's
Lodge elected to stand on the technicality, that because they did not
authorize the expenditure, they would not reimburse the Sacramento
Bo~rd of Relief for same.
The Board of Control has recommended that the Finance Committee
approve this reimbursement to the Sacramento Board of Relief.
Total amount requested for rambursements-$7 63.61.
The Board of Control has had excellent support from the Most
Worshipful Phil N. Myers, Grand Master, and we wish him to know
that we are most grateful for his support. We .would also like to thank
the Grand Secretary. Lloyd E. Wilson, the Assistant Grand Secretary,
Henry D. Oliphant, and his very efficient staff for their help and cooperation during the past Masonic year.
Respectfully submitted.
Guv A. ToLLE
REGINALD M. MILLS
EDWARD A. JOHNSON
IRVING MAGNES
ARTHUR DvoRIN
EXPIRATION OF TERM OF OFFICE. BOARD OF CONTROL MEMBERS

Guy A. Tolle. ......................................................... 1959
Irving. Magnes ·····················································-~ 959
Arthur Dvorin.."--··················································· 960
Reginald A. Mills ................................................ .1961
Edward A. Johnson................................................ 1961
Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Seg·regation, to which has been referred the annual message of the Grand Master, reports of the Grand Treasurer,
Grand Secretary and Grand Lecturer, and the reports of various Special
Committees, submits the following report:
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Master's message
herein listed be referred to the committees indicated:
1. To the Committee on Jurisprudence. Decisions 1. 4. 5 and 10.
2. To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

120

SRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

a. The recommendations relative to the issuance and distribution
of printed matter by various committees.
b. The recommendations relative to Fiddletown Cemetery.
c. The observations concerning Lodges under dispensation.
3. To the Committee on Jurisprudence and to the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes:
a. The action of the Grand Master in lifting restrictions on
constituent Lodge officers.
b. The recommendation relative to the jurisdiction of Tehachapi
Lodge No. 313.
c. The recommendation concerning the status of the York Rite
Sovereign College.
d. The recommendations relative to the appointment of an additional Trustee Emeritus to the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes of California.
e. Decisions 2. 3, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11.
The message of the Grand Master reflects a year of great accomplishment, and a complete absence of contention, indicating greater achievement for Masonry in California.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT
We recommend the referral of this report, in its entirety, to the
Committee on Finance.
The Report reflects the continued efficiency and outstanding service
of this Grand Lodge office.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT
1. We recommend that the portion thereof relative to changes of
meeting place be referred to the Committee on By-Laws.
2. We recommend that portions thereof relative to Lodges under
dispensation be referred to the Committee on Finance.
We highly commend to the attention of all constituent Lodges the
reading of that portion of the report appertaining to membership. The
observations of the Grand Secretary should be of invaluable assistance
to all Masons, and most worthy of study. The report in its entirety, and
this portion in particular, continue to reflect the outstanding service of
the Grand Secretary and his staff.
GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT
1. We recommend the report in its entirety be referred to the
Committee on Finance.
2. We recommend that the portion thereof appertaindng to examination of Lodge Records be referred to the Committee on Juris-

121

prudence. Special mention should be made of the recognition
throughout the world of the high standard maintained in the
ritualistic work in this Grand Jurisdiction.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
We recommend reference to the Committee on Finance the following reports:
1. Report of Committee on Taxation.
2. Report of Board of Directors of Masonic Club at Berkeley.
3. Report of Committee of Board of Directors of Masonic Club at
Los Angeles.
4. Report of Committee on De Molay.
5. Report of Committee on Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles.
6. Report of Committee on Columbia Temple.
Respectfully submitted,
ADOLPH H. FRANZEN
}ACK L. BLAINE
WALTER CLAYTON
Adopted.

SUPPLEME NTAL REPORT
OF COMMITTE E ON SEGREGAT ION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Segregation respectfully submits herewith a
Supplemental R~port to provide for the proper reference of those items
in The Report of Grand Secretary continued from the last Annual
Communication, and referred to in such report under the heading, "Unfinished Business":
TO THE COMMITTE E ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
The following matters from 1958 proceedings:
1. History Program, page 204.
2. Cemetery Recommendations, pages 254 and 287.
3. Special Report on Clubhouses, pages 286 - 287.
4. Recommendation of Committee on Commercialism, page 289.
The two remaining items in said Report have been heretofore referred
to proper committees.
Respectfully submitted,
ADOLPH H. FRANZEN
}ACK L. BLAINE
WALTER CLAYTON
Adopted.

122

12.3

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES, CALIFORNIA
MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE CORPORATION

names of all "Temple Builders". It will be a record in which all Masons
should be proud to have their name recorded.

This is the Fifth Annual Report issued by the Board of Trustees of
the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
The Board of Trustees met following the close of the 1958 Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge, as is required by the By~Laws for
the purpose of organization. The election of Brother Joe L. Shell,
Deputy Grand Master, Brother Alfred F. Breslauer, Senior Grand
Warden, and Brother Guy B. Mize, Junior Grand Warden, was formally r~ported to the Board, and on motion duly made, seconded and
carried, they were elected members of the Board.
This .report co_vers the first fiscal year of operation. The report of
the Certl~ed. Public Accountants, Skinner & Hammond, and the report
of the Building Manager, Brother Alvin A. Horwege, are made a part
of this report.
. T~e business of the Temple was carried on by the staff under the
dir~c~ion. of the Special Temple Committee comprising the Trustees
residing in the San Francisco Bay Area and P.G.M. L. Harold Anderson. The Temple Committee has met on call of the Chairman. It has
bee11 our objective to assist the staff in carrying out the policy as prescribed by the Board of Trustees, and to report to the Board of Trustees
our action and recommendations for its approval, particularly when
matters pertaining to finance were involved.
In addition to the three items of improvement to the facilities mentioned in the Manager's report, it has been determined by your Board
of Trustees that because of the wide range of temperatures in San Francisco, resulting in extreme expansion and contraction of the endomosai~ window panels: the screen originally contemplated to protect
~he wmdow should be installed. This has been authorized and, accordingly, should be installed, if schedules can be maintained, by the time
of our Annual Communication.
Engineers and scientists in this field assure us that this screen will
deflect in excess of 6~% of the direct heat from the sun. They also
as~ured us that the wmdow could be viewed with less eye strain on
bright sunny days. (The fog does lift occasionally.)
OPEN BOOK
~he work of setting the names in type for the Open Book is pro-

ceedmg. It.was our original hope to have it completed by this Grand
Lod~e session .. The volume of work and many questions arising in connection therewith has made this impossible. We appreciate the cooperation of the lodges in checking and rechecking the names. When
the Book is conqJleted and in place, it will be a permanent record of the

MERIT ROLL PLAQUE
As of August 31. 1959, (the date this report was released for printing) 412 lodges have made the "Merit Roll". This is an increase of 72
lodges since our last Annual Report to this Grand Lodge.
We are happy to be able to include for the first time in the Annual
Report a photograph of the "Merit Roll" plaque. This plaque was
proudly unveiled a year ago at the dedication communication. It is
located on the second floor of the Temple for all who visit the Temple
to see.
This "Merit Roll" plaque is unique in that a space is reserved for
each constituted lodge and for any newly instituted lodge. It will be
possible for lodges to reach "Merit Roll" status as long as there is a
debt on the Temple. The name plate for each constituted lodge is
available and ready to be put in place. Name plates for U.D. lodges and
U.D. lodges reaching "Merit Roll" status, subsequent to being con~
stituted, will be made available as soon after reaching Merit Roll status
as is possible.
The quota for all newly institued and constituted lodges since July
31. 1955, is based on their membership at the close of the preceding
fl.seal year. New groups wishing to be on the "Merit Roll" on their in~
stitution night may use as their quota $10.00 for each charter member.
OuR GoAL
"Every Lodge a Merit Roll Lodge.''
See photograph between pages 125 and 126.
HONOR DISTRICTS
We on the Board of Trustees, in behalf of all the Masons of California, wish to express our sincere appreciation and say thanks again
for the continued support of the Inspectors, Officers and Lodge Cam~
paign Chairmen. Their efforts have resulted in 15 additional lnspectoral
Districts becoming "Honor Districts". This makes a total of 51 out of
a total of 172 districts achieving that distinction. Our congratulations to
the 51 Honor Districts, as follows:

124
District
104*
106
118*
208
216*

224
301

314*
316
320
326
330
332
337
338t
342

344
350
362*
364
372
376
378
390*
416
418
420*
421
502*
503*
508
515
520*
524*
528
538
540
549
550
558*
567
570

572
601*

624*
626
638
639*
640

642
646

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

lmspector
Lodge Number!J
George S. Ward..••- ................................................................-...37, 91, 186
Percy Ward Lindt...............................................·- ······- ··········-297, 310, 430, 555
M. Bruce Myers.•......................................................................-60, 132, 234, 601
Edward Parley ·-·--···-·························································-13• 23, 51, 59, 101
George H. Olmstead..•.......................................................3, 406, 730, 734, 786
J. Wesley Stbole----··············································-··-··········56• 85, 80, 95, 174
Alexander Duncan ···················································-·············---H7 , 193, 552
George T. Rowse••....................................................................191, 356, 556, 751
Clarence E. Sboaf.......................................................................--5, 87, 229, 487
Victor Prenk -·····································································...347, 431, 502, 503
Samuel G. OarJc......................................... _________________ ______ ...1+t, 360, 464, 534
Paul A. Haclder_...................................................................435, 449, 549, 706
Joseph M. Ruggfero_...................................................- .........-219, 354, 562, 570
Jack W. Lelsbman....................................................................-+t, 393, 500, 531
Clarence C. SmMh...-·························-····················-················.376, 454, 714, 762
Carlton H. Rathblum. ...............................................................216, 370, 470, 536
Harry K. Wldup.·-····································································-·.22, 30, 166, 462
E. Lloyd HanllOD...•••••..........•............•...............- ..-....................•61, 468, 494, 560
William Nankervfs, Jr.............·-··········-·························· ········-----215, 396, 491
S. Leslie Hawiten.....-················-····-························-··--····-226• 400, 737, 745
Frederick L. Brown................................-................................... 10, 399, 463, 669
Andre L. Armand-·················································-···············!··················-·---17
John Behrens - -······························-·············-·······-··················-······- ··--127
Donald W. Casten........................................................................--46, 187, 211
Samuel E. Dollar........................................................________ 280, 417, 420, 508
Herbert R. Hargrave............................................. _2f7, 316, 366, 465, 530, 700
Orin Compton -······························································-··----1 96, 209, 719
Walter Oayton ------······-··························-······-······················....285, 286, 493
Wilfred W. Partrfdge......................................................................221, 287, 333
Lynn A. Blackmun...........................................................................- ..- ...684, 691
Guy S. Harts, Sr•........................................·--·····-·····················---214, 633, 663
Ralph W. Collins. ...................... _..........-592, 652, 678, 739, Mt. Wilson U.D.
Louis H. Mahler-......................................._ ...............__J9t, 515, 577, 578, 742
Russell Northrop .....•..............................................................•...42, 506, 650, 662
Samuel Steelman ......................................................................355, 415, 513, 602
Field Thompeon ........................................................................320, 566, 614, 646
Milton H. Lang_·································································-····.335, 458, 529, 767
James L. Miles................................................................................-.507, 548, 703
John A. Owen.-.................................................................421, 647, 740, 753, 766
Martin 0. Veland................................................................--...351, 522, 538, 628
Frank L. SutJUf._•••.••_...•..................•........- ..···············-··········til, 483, 621, 731
Charles A. Thomaaet.................................................- ...............................-.329
Albert K.iechle -··································································-······················-438
Oscar J. Smith-...-································································--··.326, 634, 682
Melvin R. Berbower.-.......................................................504, 540, 655, 674, 779
John A. Kline-·····························-·····················-··········-·-.543. 594, 619, 699
Hugh D. Good----·······························································-407, 576, 736, 760
Winlleld S. Mc:Lees................................................................-----+t1, 632, 696
Charles J. Savage.-.-··········································-·-···············-...35• +t2, 561, 574
Fred S. Weecf__·-··········-··-- --··-··············-····-···-··- .-.233• 296, 626, 747
Norbert P. Teater-........................................................•.384, 390, 402, 412, 425

* New districts since last annual report.

t UD. lodge added since last annual communication.

'-HLOMIU1 '"!~0~· 4 !" A..rl Qll" Wl• ~

r

nu11;.a.•t.•

~i-Kit1t01HllU

~ .,.,_.

... 7WA • fti,lll•l"l

"_ ytl.,MAJ!tri_qU.l #lit.t

71• ifu'tO!JJ.INDll

lt-..:..s • a-JLOPICJUQ U~U"l
?r•f!n~ll e.
111 MOJH

•

~ 12,:!2£°&:8l:.!.i rU1 T

1'2Ji•CUIU.S

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

125

RECAP OF BANK LoAN

Origin al bank borrow ing .................................... $2,303,790
Retired to July 31, 1959 ...................................... 360,000
Balanc e owned July 31, 1959 ..................$1,943,790
all
Your Board of Directo rs has adopte d the policy of applyin g
conwe
policy,
available cash agains t the debt, and in line with that
r
template paying at least one more installment of $120,000 on Octobe
1, 1959.
Your Board of Truste es is more than gratified with the first year's
look
operati ng results. (See Building Manag er's report attache d.) We
we
ing
everyth
doing
are
We
e.
Templ
the
in
forwar d to greater activity
.
tenants
le
desirab
by
s
facilitie
the
of
use
the
can to encour age
Respectfully submitted,
By: EDWAR D H. SIEMS,
President

Officers 6 Trustees:
EDWAR D H. SIEMS, President
FRANK HARWE LL, JR., Vice President
PAULA . PFLUEG ER, Treasurer
LLOYD E. WILSO N, Secretary
JoEL.S HELL
ALFRED F. BRESLA UER
GuYB . MIZE
EDGAR V. STEWA RT, JR.
ARTHU R M. WARRE N
IRA

w. COBURN

JOHN M. GORDO N
KEITH W. ScHLAE GEL

126

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF BUILDING MANAGER
To the Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple:
Brethren:
It is my privilege and pleasure to present to you my first annual
report as manager of the California Masonic Memorial Temple for the
year ended June 30, 1959.
.
With the assistance of Brother Harry F. Haines, superintendent
in charge of electrical and mechanical equipment, and our janitorial
staff (consisting of Brother Charles Frasier and Brother Jim Oakley).
we have endeavored to cal'lry on the maintenance of the Temple in a
manner which has been pleasing to all of you.
In addition to the above staff, we have a contract with the California
Building and Maintenance Company to handle all the janitorial work
in connection with our rental facilities. The contract price for this
cleaning is included in our lease agreements.
During the year, the garage operation (which has been leased to
Tidewater Oil Company) has been above our expectations.
Our rentals on the auditorium and exhibit space for the year covered 87 days of occupancy. (See Financial Statements-Exhibit B
attached.)
Taking into account the fact that our main source of revenue comes
from the convention business (which is planned years in advance), we
may be several years in getting our facilities into the swing of this class
of business.
We were fortunate to pick up a few very important convention
accounts, and feel that we will increase our tempo in the years ahead.
Included in the 87 days noted above, 48 days were accounted for
by National conventions which drew a large share of their attendance
from all over the United States and Canada. It is estimated that their
attendance during these 48 days totaled 106,350 people.
The balance of the rental days were accounted for by one State
convention, shows, concerts, and church services with an estimated additional total attendance of 92,000 persons.
A study of our guest register (which was started in September,
1958, and was checked to the first of July. 1959) shows that 7,000
visitors signed the register. These represent visitors from 46 states and
the District of Columbia, as well as from 30 foreign countries.
Looking into the coming fiscal year, we have on the books 82 days
of occupancy-having an approximate value of $70,000.
Three major changes and improvements have been made in the
building with the thought of making it more attractive and useful to
our rental public. First, our restroom facilities for women proved to be
inadequate, and we have added eleven new units in these facilities.
In the exhibit area, we have made available 26 telephone Boor jacks

127

for the use of exhibitors, and the telephone company has pulled in a
100-pair cable as a permanent installation to implement their use.
The telephone company has had so many inquiries for television
shows originating in the auditorium that they have just completed the
installation of a 450-pair cable-capable of handling the largest television shows. Your Building Committee had anticipated this need and
provided the conduit in the original construction of the building.
Now under contract is a hydraulic ramp at our Pine Street loading
dock, which we hope in the future will eliminate to a considerable
extent the trouble of getting cars out of the garage after a large show
in the auditorium. With the Pine Street ramp working, we will be able
to turn approximately one-half the cars out into that street. Our garage
operator anticipates with two exits in use the garage can be emptied in
about thirty minutes after the close of a full house program.
We have been relying on the San Francisco Convention and Visitors Bureau to promote our facilities, and they have been most cooperative in this respect. I feel. however, that in the future. further
effort on our part should be undertaken to advertise and promote these
spacious facilities throughout the convention and theatrical world. I
would like to submit this thought to the Board of Trustees for consideratio~

May I express my thanks (and those of the Temple staff) for the
splendid help and cooperation tendered during the past year.
Respectfully submitted,
ALVIN A. HoRWEGE,

Building Manager

128

GRAND LODGE OF CAIJFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
FoR F1scAL YEAR ENDING JuNE 30, 1959

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Investment Committee concludes its ninth year of activity, and
herewith renders its report for the twelve months ending June 30, 1959.
Each year's report gives a certain amount of historical background and
basic information, which should be helpful to those attending Grand
Lodge for the first time.
The Prudent Man Rule in modified form was adopted by Grand
Lodge at its 1950 Communication. For the Constituent Lodges a
Prudent Man Rule was adopted in 1951.
The Investment Committee of Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
was formed for the purpose of administering the investable funds of
Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes of California and the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund. The Committee does not supervise the investments of Constituent Lodges. Grand Lodge makes the services of
its investment advisor available to the Lodges. Many Lodges are now
making use of this service, as evidenced by the fact that 226 Lodges
with $4,696,500 of investments are now consulting with our investment
advisor.
The Investment Committee is composed of the Grand Treasurer, the
Assistant Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of the Finance Committee,
the President of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees or a Trustee
of that Board designated by him, and the Chairman of the Masonic
Homes Endowment Board or a member of that Board designated by
him. The President of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees has
designated Brother Past Master Ralph H. Head as his representative,
and Brother Past Master Eugene Bashor, who was Chairman of the
Endowment Board a year ago, appointed Brother Past Master John
W. Davey as his representative. Subsequently Brother Past Master
John M. Gordon became Chairman of the Endowment Board and by
virtue of his office he will personally serve henceforth as a member of
the Committee.
By Ordinance, under Section 246 (formerly 86) with respect to
investment of Grand Lodge funds, and Section 403 (formerly 152.1)
respecting investments by Constituent Lodges, the following provisions
and subsequent amendmew.ts were promulgated:
GROUP I. At least 40% of the funds available for investment
must be in:
A) Cash and/or bank accounts.
B) Obligations of the United States.

129

C)

Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions.
D) Such other securities as are legal investments for California
savings banks.

GROUP II. Up to 20% may be invested in:
A) Other evidences of indebtedness, which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an exchange registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that this listing requirement shall not
include railroad equipment trust issues ( 1955).
B) Preferred stocks, which are or will be fully listed and
registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange,
except that full listing and registratfon of preferred stock
shall not be required whenever the common stock of the
corporation issuing such preferred stock is fully listed and
registered on such an exchange, provided that such preferred
stock is traded on such an exchange ( 1956).
GROUP III. Up to 40% may be invested in:
A) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance stocks.
B) Share~ of Investment Trusts.
C) Shares and/or certificates of insured Federal or State Savings and Loan Associations ( 1957). The amount invested
in any one Association shall not exceed the amount covered
by insurance. (THIS AMENDMENT APPLIES ONLY
TO CONSTITUENT LODGES AND DOES NOT
APPLY TO THE INVESTMENT OF GRAND
LODGE FUNDS.)

With respect to the authority to invest in Groups II and III, the
Ordinances read as follows: "No such investments, however, shall be
made which at the time of purchase will result in the total market value
of the securities referred to in this section exceeding twenty per cent
(or forty per cent) of the total market value of all the cash, bank accounts and securities held,"-the controlling point being that there
cannot be more than 20% or 40% invested in Groups II and III, respectively, at the time of purchase.

130

131

GRA ND LODGE OF CAL IFOR NIA

PRO CEE DING S OF THE

Committee has met regu larl y
Since its formation the Investment
rter ly meetings the business of the
eve ry thre e months. Between qua
ndence or telephone.
Committee is han dled by correspo
nine yea rs of operation. The folAs stat ed, we have just completed
dated mar ket values of securities
lowing is a summary of the consoli
ther with a reco rd of dollar income
own ed, plus investable cash, toge
Nov emb er 30, 1950, and for each
on thes e investments, beginning with
e 30, 1959, including the perc enta ge
succeeding fiscal yea r, thro ugh Jun
·
r.
income on the market value of each yea
STAB LE CASH *
UB OF SECU RITI ES AND INVE
CON SOLI DAT ED MAR KET VAL
(In Paren the1e a)
ME
INCO
LAR
DOL
AND
(BY GRO UPS AND TOTA LS)
Incom e
Peree ntTOTA LS
GRO UP ID
GRO UP D
Jtetu rnt
GRO UP I
Amo unt
Per Ceat Amo ant Per Cent
at
Amn
Cent
Per
ani
Amo
DatN
1.117 "
,471
1.11% ' 8,124,698)
1.7% ' 814,008
('120
92.4% $ 102.140
$6,668,329
(S 22,06 8)
11/80 /60
2.68
(S 4,282 )
,968
6,972
.
17.2
($ 94,28 0)
,726
1,025
8.6
889,000
78.8
($168,989)
4,568,248
(S 88,20 8)
8/18/ 61
3.09
($18, 162)
,864
8,648
($ 74,08 4)
27.9
1,866.121
8.7
674,098
88.4
($206,272)
4,218,887
(S 98,61 4)
8/4/6 2
8.21
($20, 882)
,806
7,881
(S 86,827)
29.9
2.208 ,868
6.5
479,527
68.6
($286,590)
4,898,120
7/31/ 68
($114,816)
8.28
894~
.266
('19,
8,401
,381)
($102
89.0
8,278 ,81'
9.2
771,14
61.8
($275,298)
4,361.294
($16) ,076)
7/81/ 64
988)
(S27,
8.06
9,844
8)
10,12
96,26
(S
87.8
3,820,092
6.7
678,810
66.6
($309,845)
6,680,942
7/81/ 66
($168 ,880)
894)
($24,
8.84
8,108
11,11
($126,821)
31.1;
3,606,096
14.4
1,696,662
($371,407)
64.l
6,011 ,460
7/81/ 68
(Sl60 ,697)
688)
($88,
S.92
6,608
11,82
(Sl67 ,122)
87.0
4,192 ,291
17.0
1,928,881
48.0
($440,808)
6/80/ 67*• 5,206,986
($197,878)
899)
8.97
($89,
9,626
12,62
($168,284)
88.9
4,878,889
17.9
2,261,789
($498,948)
43.1
6,897,647
,840)
8/30/ 68
($226
a.76
948~
($98,
18,789,787
(S174,862)
88.2
6,270,217
18.6
l,8H ,ea
48.8
($617,425)
6,664,915
(Sl86 ,854)
8/80/ 69
868)
(S87,
($242,718)
Grou p I.
est •me d there on are Inclu ded In
•savl nirs bank depaa tta with Inter
ton mark et value .
UFia cal year chan pd to lune 80.

...

0 wer e take n during the pas t
Net profits of app roxi mat ely $465,00
mately $1.421.000 have been take n
year, and tota l net profits of approxi
t Ma n Rul e in 1950. Profits alw ays
since the inau gura tion of the Pru den
remain a par t of principal.
e thro ugh the Lodges amo unte d
End owm ent Fun d contributions mad
e 30, 1959, and in addition, gift s
to $503,785 for the yea r ending Jun
, The Mas onic Homes Boa rd of
and bequests amounted to .$538,285
s and bequests shall be allo cat edTru stee s determines how thes e gift
with specific bequests, or in the
thes e allocations are in acco rdan ce
the Tru stee s.
absence of such at the direction of
the tota l portfolio has incr ease d
In passing, may we also mention that
71 to $13,789,767, or 125.15%.
since November, 1950, from $6,124,4
ed on pres ent holdings. dividends
and at the same time the income, bas 0,598 to $51 7,42 5,or 329 .05% .
$12
and inte rest rates, has increased from

investment portfolio of Gra nd
The . f~llowing is the consolidated
Jun e 30, 1959, divided into the
Lo~ge, with the market values as of enta
ge value of each group, tovarious ~roups ~nd showing the perc grou p on the market value:
each
geth er with the income retu rn for
CAL IFO RNI A
GRA ND LOD GE F. Bl A. M. OF
-Jun e 30, 1959
CON SOL IDA TED POR TFO LIO
(Ma rket Valu e•)
SUM MA RY
GRO UP I

Amo unt

Per Cent

Retu rn
on
Mark et

48.34%

$ 20,956 ..
100,497
3,095
30,067
88,098
3.64%
$242, 713

gasg a-··-·················-··-·-·.....~............ 698 548
M : . oJ:r nme nt Bon ds .............. 2,960:467

102 000
·
R ~Clw E ···:·····.. ····························
0
········ 1,0285:00
··············.......
t .......
pmen
900
P~bli~aUtili~u1
1,87
.
.......
y ..............
6,664:915
TOT AL GRO UP I ......................$

GRO UP II
Bon ds:

~r1.~riciia.a1s ...............- ...................,
....
R!I~~!d Equ ipm ent ..............
...........
Pub lic Util lt.........................
Indu stria ls Y ................................

2,000
100,000
34,600
109,360

80
3,250
2,076
5,160
3,650
194
$ 14,410

$

,_
Fi~:;~ i3~;;i::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::7$-3=-:=:_::-~-g

Pref erre d Stoc k:
74,400
.....................$
~b~i~attifft.....................
225
520,
..
.......
.......
.......
3'
ls
Indu stria
850
916,
.
.......
.......
.......
.......
.......
Fina nce
300
..........................................
1,775
Tota l Pref erre ds ......................$ 1,51
4,635
TOT AL GRO UP II ······ ·-··-· ··· 1,85
GRO UP III
Com mon Stoc k:
1 it Y ·····• ···-·· ··-··- --··.....$ 1,045 447
Ufl
Pub
I li c .
2,822' 674
F~dustr1als ..........,......................... 1,402:096
man ce ..........................................
0,217
TOT AL GRO UP III ................$ 5,27
789,767
TOT AL POR TFO LIO ............$13,

3,600
25,774
44,054
20
$ 73,448

$

13.45%

$ 87,858

4.74%

38.21 %

$ 47,104
89,309
50,441
$186,854

3.55%

100.00%

$517,425

3.75%

able gov~ent bon ds • I nves t dule the non -ma rketpar
k t bl
• In thteSa~ve sche
Th
at
red
figu
are
B
and
A
s
er1e
men
~s~~e::::~te
~
;m~
~ui
oad
railr
The
ket
ed at mar red at par U the non m k ~t
t bl
hon~ .arel ~gur
figu
are
e ~veyune~ts
mum c1pa issu es
if
ent rede mpt ion valu ea ~nd
wer e take n ~t thei r pres
Wer e fl re e r8.l oa equ1pes
issu
al
icip
mun
the
and
eS
ththe
men t trus t lSSU
I~artkhet,
3
port folio wou ld be appr oxim atel y'$9 •
ss · an e
tobtal valu e ofofthe
787.
789,
$13,
a ove figu re
•• At3 %.

eJ:

ioc/

132

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

We have three principal accounts, the Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund, the Masonic Homes General Fund, plus the several smaller
funds of the Masonic Homes, and the Grand Lodge P. & A. M. of California. The record is kept by Moody's as one total fund, thereby reducing
our cost very materially. However, Grand Lodge records are kept
separate as to each fund, as are the records of the Investment Committee.
As a matter of interest, we list here the market value of the portfolios
of the individual funds, together with the income and yield at market
prices:
Yield*
Total Value• Income
3.70%
$358,169
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund ..................$9,676,970
3.94
105,197
Masonic Homes General Fund .......................... 2,671,401
4.13
17,640
Masonic Homes Flint Fund................................ 427,381
3.55
1,177
Masonic Homes Brigham Scholarship Fund.. 33,124
4.09
987
Masonic Homes Residents' Deposits Fund .... 24,104
4.32
2,763
63,986
Masonic Homes Luckenbach Fund ................
4.28
575
13,58'1
Masonic Homes Wadleigh Fund ......................
3.93
700
Masonic Homes Perine Fund ·······················-··· 17,819
4.21
30,765
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California............ 729,195
(• as of June 30, 1959, including investable cash. Interest on savings accounts (investable cash only) is figured at 3%. In this table governments,
railroad equipments and municipal issues are figured at present redemption
or market values. All of these figures are as of June 30, 1959, and the yield
on the investments would vary during the year, depending upon the many
factors which are involved.)

In the .fiscal year 1959-1960 it will be necessary to liquidate for the
Masonic Homes General Fund about 1Yi million dollars of securities
in order to pay for the new hospital and facilities now under construction
at Decoto.
We have had practically one hundred per cent attendance at our
Investment Committee meetings. P. M. John M. Gordon, Chairman of
the Masonic Homes Endowment Board, attended the August, 1958, and
the February and May. 1959, meetings: Alfred F. Breslauer, Senior
Grand Warden, attended the November, 1958, meeting: P. G. M.
Charles M. Wollenberg. President of the Masonic Homes Board of
Trustees, the February, 1959, meeting, and P . G. M. Arthur M. Warren.
a member of the Board of Trustees, the February and May, 1959,
meetings.
The entire portfolio is listed in the Auditor's Report and is, therefore, not included herein. The securities are held in safekeeping by the
Trust Department of the Crocker-Anglo National Bank, at its One
Montgomery Street Office. San Francisco.

133

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Moody's reports the following use of its service by Constituent
Lo.dges, beginning with December 1, 1951, through June 30, 1959.
Grand Lodge makes this service available without cost to all Lodges
in our jurisdiction.
1. Number of Lodges under service.............................. 226
2. Number of Lodges presenting portfolios for initial
analysis and review.................................................. 189
3. Number of original reports and analyses prepared 163
4. Total dollar value of portfolios reviewed $4,696,501.04
5. Subsequent reviews, items of correspondence,
office visits, telephone calls.................................... 3,040

Several amendments are proposed by the Committee at this Communication of Grand Lodge. The most important suggestion relates
to the percentages which can be invested ·in the various categories
under our Modi.6ed Prudent Man Rule. This has been under discussion and study for several years.
The Committee endeavors to keep in as close touch with economic
and changing conditions as is humanly possible.
The suggested amendment would increase the percentage which can
be invested in Group III. Brother Ralph Head, who represents the
Masonic Homes Board of Trustees on our Committee, will present
details to this Grand Lodge.
Several additional amendments relating to Hawaii are proposed.
These amendments will bring our investment provisions up to date with
respect to our newest State, which is a part of our Grand Lodge.
The Investment Committee continues to pursue a conservative policy,
as shown by the amounts invested in the three categories, namely,
Groups I. 11 and Ill.
Our thanks to the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary,
and my thanks to the members of the Investment Committee for their
wholehearted and generous cooperation at all times. Our special thanks
also to Brother John W. Davey, who has served on this Committee for a
number of years, and is now retiring as the representative of the Endowment Board.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Investment Committee---

JoHN w. DAVEY
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
RALPH H. HEAD
EDWARD

H. SIEMS

PAUL A. PPLUBGER,

Chairman

134

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
MANUAL FOR THE. FoRMATION oF A MASONIC LoDGE

During the year, we have completed and published "The Manual
for the Formation of a Masonic Lodge," which includes procedures
under dispensation. The Manual is now available without charge from
the Grand Secretary's office in response to qualified requests.
We urge the full use of this Manual by those working on the formation of new Lodges, and by the Inspectors a!'.ld officers of Lodges under
dispensation. It is designed to make your work easier, and to assist you
in providing the type of information and records the Committee on
Charters requires in order to properly prepare its reports.
CHARTERS RECOMMENDED

At the 1958 Communication, all Lodges then under dispensation
were granted charters, and the current Masonic year began with no
Lodges under dispensation.
During the year, six new Lodges were instituted, and of these, five
have applied for charters.
·
We have examined the work and proceedings of the five Lodges
seeking charters and have conferred with their delegates. We found the
work and proceedings of all five petitioning Lodges to be satisfactory,
and that they were clear of all indebtedness. In some cases there were
errors or omissions of a minor nature in keeping records and presenting
same as prescribed by the Masonic Code. Your Committee was assured
that these items would be rectified. There were no errors or omissions of
a major nature.
We, therefore, recommend that charters be granted and numbers
assigned to the five petitioning Lodges as follows:
Millbrae Lodge, No. 792, at Millbrae, in the County of San Mateo.
Maya Lodge, No. 793, at Los Angeles, in the County of Los Angeles.
Mt. Wilson Lodge, No. 794, at Altadena, in the County of Los
Angeles.
·
.
American River Lodge, No. 795, at Folsom, in the County of Sacramento.
Golden Valley Lodge, No. 796, at San Bernardino, in the County of
San Bernardino.
CONTINUING UNDER DISPENSATION RECOMMENDED

Tila Pass Lodge, U. D .. at Los Angeles, in the County of Los Angeles, was instituted July 30, 1959, and desires to be continued under
dispensation. In conformity to this request, the Lodge did not Ole a

135

petition for a charter. The Committee concurs in the Lodge's request,
and recommends that it be continued under dispensation for the ensuing
Masonic y.ear.
.

.

· Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
KENNETH L. HEMPHILL
KENNETH R. FoRD
WAYNE E. BURK
BROWN ZARLEY
ROBERT A. SMITH
IRA G. S1LVE~
PHILIP B. STONE

c.
w.

CHARLES
WARREN
ROBERT 0. WEST
HAROLD
WEYGANDT, JR.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
LOCAL TEMPLE ASSOCIATION FINANCES
To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Local Temple Association Finances met, on a
number of occasions during the past year, with the members in Southern
California, but, because no finances had been appropriated for this
Committee it was impossible to have a meeting of the Committee as a
whole.
We also held a meeting Wlith Herb Hargrave, Chairman of the Lodge
Finance Committee, on a number of matters, in Los Angeles.
It was the concensus of opinion of the Southern California members
that a new form be prepared, to be filled out by all local Temple Associations and to be submitted to the Lodge Finance Committee. This
form would inclutle a statement for two years, and would also include
an appraisal of the property involved.
A number of changes are recommended for this form whiich will be
of great help to the ·Lodge Finance Committee, and, in further discussions with your Chairman of the Lodge Finance Committee, we feel
that, if this form is adopted and made mandatory that the Lodges fill
in same, that the Lodges Finance Commtitee can then handle the entire
work of our Committee, as well as their own Committee.
We, therefore, recommend the adoption of the attached form, and
further recommend that our Committee be disbanded, and all papers
turned back to the Lodge Finance Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN T. BOND
JOHN A. DULL
PHILIP F. FLEISIG
HAROLD R. DETUNCQ

ED. F. CuNIFFE
HAROLD
STELLING
RICHARD R. KENNEDY

w.

Referred to the Committees on Lodge Financing and on Policy and
General Purposes.
.
·
.

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAN D LODGE

giving it added strength . This year slightly over nine hundred out-ofstate members affiliated with California lodges. This is a significant
·
number.
Occasionally we flnd lodges which oppose affiliations on the grounds
these brethre n might become charges on the lodge. We believe that this
new
is a poor policy, almost like saying the lodge does not want any
ce,
insuran
health
of
day
this
In
members because of the same fear.
lodges.
their
to
charges
become
s
pensions, etc., very few member
The purpose of this report is to once again lay before the members
of Grand Lodge the fact that we have a working sojourners' Committee,
that we desire and hope that the various lodges are cogniza nt of this,
and that we are developing positive sojourn ers' programs. We know
that many of the lodges are doing outstan ding work in this field and
to them we send our congratulations. To those who have done little,
we merely ask that they give this matter some attention. We think it
will bring worthw hile results. Remember - keep the sojourners in
your picture.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM A. CoHENDET
FREDG.DoAN
WESTLEY P. JoNES
FRANOS H. GENTRY
ELMER E. Ross
WENDELL VAN WINKLE
JAMES B. BAKER
THOMAS A. CARTER
Loms B. SMITH
JAcKL. RAu
EDWARD M. DOWNS
BENT. SALMON
WALTER D. RANDALL
JOHN RICHMOND

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1959
Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 a.m., the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The
minutes of the morning and afternoo n sessions of Monday , September
28, were read, corrected and approved.

REPO RT OF COMM ITIEE ON SOJOU RNER S
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your sojourn ers' Committee can report continu ed activity on the
part of the committee and the various lodges through out the jurisdiction. It seems to the committeemen that the lodges are becoming more
aware of the importance of sojourn ers in their future, and that gradual ly
the program "Sojour ners' Night" is becoming a feature in the annual
lodge calenda r.
In the beginning of this year, the lodges were divided into Inspect or's
District s and assigned to the Committeeman living closest to them. In
some cases, unfortu nately, the Committeeman resided many miles away,
and, in such instances the Committeeman could only correspond with
the lodges, urging their cooperation and assistance.
In a state such as California, embracing both urban and agricultural
areas, and both old and new population districts, many diverge nt views
and problems as to sojourn ers are encountered. In some of our Mother
Lode country lodges, for instance, it is likely that there are no sojourn ers
around. On the other hand, in such boom areas as San Diego and Los
Angele s to the south, and Sacram ento and the San Mateo peninsula
to the north, there are countless sojourners looking for a Masonic restinq place. It is in such places that our lodges can reap a fertile harvest .
We have been informed that around the San Diego area, particularly.
work among the sojourners has made splendid progres s.
In general. and in addition to local committeemen effort, the Committee wrote to every lodge on two occasions during the past year:
flrst, at the beginning of the year urging the formation of sojourn ers'
committees in the individual lodges, and the laying of plans for a
sojourn ers' program: second, later in the spring, when at considerable
effort, and after many days of research into the past records and correspondence in the flies of the committee, we produce d a kit entitled,
"A New Look at Sojourn ers." This, with suggest ed helps, programs,
and argume nts as to the reasons for working with sojourners, went to
the Secreta ry of each lodge. The kit was designe d as an aid to the
Master and/or his chairma n of the lodge Sojourn ers' Committee, and
was not meant to be a substitu te for the ingenuity and enthusiastic thinking each lodge could bring to this problem.
Our rate of affiliations keeps a steady pace every year, with hundreds of sojourners entering the stream of Califor nia Freema sonry and

137

TRIBU TE TO RALP H M. FOOT E
Past Grand Master Leslie E. Wood, on behalf of the three living

Past Grand Lecturers and the Grand Lecturer, present ed a resolution
of commendation as follows:
Men of true heart labor with pride and joy in the perfection of
their craftsmanship, and with love and respect for the institution which
they serve.
Such has been the industr y of Assista nt Grand Lecturer Ralph M.
Foote, who now .flnds it necessa ry to lay aside the working tools of our
Craft and .flnd time for the personal rest, refreshm ent and repose which
he has so justly earned.

138

.. PROCEEDINGS OF THE· :

For more than forty-two years continuously, Brother Ralph has
labored in the vineyard, · industriously and effectively, for the benefit
and honor of the Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California, for its ideals, for its great truths, and for its purpose of building strength and good character into the lives of all men.
Ralph M. Foote was raised October i 4, 1916, in Valley ~dge No.
135, F. & A. M., at Linden, California. In 1917 he was appointed and
installed as Junior St~ard of that Lodge and by successive annual
advancements became its Master in 1921. He continued his service to
that Lodge by accepting appointments as its Ch_aplain for two terms
in the years 1922 and 1923.
..
.
On September 5, 1922, he was appointed Inspector of the 26th ~a:
sonic District, now designated as No. 228, which office he held until
1952 when he assumed the responsibilities of his present office of
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division 2, taking over supervision of sixteen
inspectorial districts with a total of 70 Lodges.
By this resolution the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California, does commend and thank
Worshipful Ralph M. Foote for his long and continued service to the
Craft. It bespeaks for him many ensuing years of health and comfort,
wherein he may bask in the warmth of the love, affection, and appreciation of his Brethren for his services to the Fraternity.
And be it directed that the Most Worshipful Grand Secretary of
this Grand Lodge cause to be prepared, suitably inscribed, and presented to Brother Foote, a metallic case card expressing the sentiments
of this resolution that he may always have with him a physical reminder
of our esteem.
Most Worshipful: In the offering of this resolution, we request
that the record show that it is presented jointly by the present Grand
Lecturer and all the now living Past Grand Lecturers under whom
Brother Foote has so ably served and who have 1had more than superficial opportunity to observe and appreciate the perfection and assiduous performance of his duties and responsibilities in his several
Masonic offices.
Respectfully submitted, ·
LESLIE E. WooD, P.G.M. and P.G.L.
CHE.STER H. WARLOW, P.G.M. and P.G.L.
ARTHUR M. WARREN, P.G.M. and P.G.L.
ELBERT W. DAVIS, Grand Lecturer

By a unanimous standing vote Grand Lodge adopted the resolution
and an engrossed copy thereof. together with the metallic case card.
were presented to Brother Foote.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

139

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON COMMERCI ALISM
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge. F. & A. M. of California:
. Your Committee on Commercialism again is indeed happy to advise
that reported violations of our law appear to be on the wane.
This .unquestionably is due to the definite pattern which was~ developed in years past under this committee's able and competent chairman, the late Worshipful Ralph K. Pierson, who in conjtJnction with
the Worshipful Donald G. Campbell, former Committee Secretary and
now Assistant Grand Lecturer Division 5, solidly established the foundation of the house in which we now labor and to whom all credit for the
improved situation must be given.
SHRINE

The fullest cooperation has been received from the various Shrine
Temples throughout this Grand Jurisdiction. As occasion required, the
advise of this committee has been sought to ascertain whether or not the
contemplated activity was within our law and, if found lawful, the concurrence of our Grand Master was secured and the Temple advised
accordingly. This is as it should be and such continued action should
further cement the cordial relationships which now exist.
SclOTS

Last year this committee reported a number of violations of our
law in regard to this appendant body. Because of the seriousness of
these violations, our then Grand Master, M. W. Leo E. Anderson, found
it necessary to write the Pharoah of the Supreme Pyramid and later
met with him, at.which meeting our Grand Master was assured that the
Sciots would make a special effort to see that there would be no more
violations of our law among the various Pyramids. This action apparently has been most effective as there have been no violations reported
to this committee.
ROYAL ORDER OF CARITAS
AMARANTH FOUNDATION, INC.

Your committee has nothing to report with regard to these organizations this year as all files with regard to them were forwarded to the
M. W. Henry C. Clausen, Judge Advocate, for his use in a lawsuit filed
by Amaranth Foundation, etc. vs. Grand Lodge et al for approximately
$800,000.00 which suit our Judge Advocate was successful in defending.
ZuLO GROTTO
ONTARIO

A group belonging to this appendant body originated an organization called the "PHEZENPH UN CLUB" which has been incorporated
in the State of California. The membership, not now restricted, consists

140

PROCB!IDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

of Masons, non Masons, men and women of Protestant, Catholic and
Jewish faiths. Clubrooms were secured, a liquor license obtained, and an
arrangement entered into between the "Club" and the "Grotto" for the
latter to use the Club for its meetings. Arrangements state that: "The
bar shall be closed, locked, and vacated during Grotto business, stated,
or special meetings." There was nothing to prevent the bar from being
open until just prior to or immediately following any "Grotto" meeting.
Our Grand Master pointed out to the Zone Director, Supreme Council,
Grottoes of North America, who is located in Los Angeles, that the
holding of Grotto meetings in these premises was contrary to Masonic
Law and must be discontinued. The Zone Director was asked to require
Zula Grotto to discontinue holding meetings in the quarters referred to.
Zula Grotto is now meeting in the Casa Blanca Hotel. Ontario. There is
no bar on the premises.

NATIONAL FRATERNAL NEWS

Ros1cRuc1ANs

There has been some complaint made to this committee with regard
to the alleged illegal commercial use by this organization of the words
"Mason," "Masonry" and "Masonic" emblems. This matter is now
under study by this committee.
PUBLICATIONS

The "Masonic Review Digest" has again been called to our attention. While we have had no complaints, we have been in correspondence with the Grand Lodge of Oregon in regard to this publication. We
have also had correspondence regarding it with the Grand Lodge of
British Columbia. Both jurisdictions are quite concerned about the
activities of this magazine. The owner of this pubUcation, so far as we
have been able to ascertain, is not a member of the Craft, though we have
been informed he petitioned a lodge in Eureka several years ago but was
not accepted. He maintains res·idence in Scottsdale, Arizona. The magazine stationery carries in its masthead the following: "The Northwest's
Outstanding Masonic Publication."
From the foregoing, and from an examination of the magazine
which carries no California advertising, it is apparent that soUcitation
is limited to Oregon, Washington, Idaho, and British Columbia. From
the printer's bug on the magazine, also such stationery and billheads as
we have seen and from the mailing, it is obvious that the printing is done
in California and mailed from this state, though from no particular
locality as the owner skips around the state with each printing. The
magazine cover carries the square and compass which, of course, is
illegal.
This publisher has been the subject of a number of investigations
by the U. S. Government but so far the Government has not been able
to develop anything which would warrant action on its part. Our Judge
Advocate has this matter under advisement.

141

Representatives of this magazine, published in Chicago, recently
contacted a man, not a member of the Craft, but one who is friendly to
it, by long distance telephone, representing the magazine to be an official
Masonic publication having nationwide circulation restricting its advertising to those having Masonic affiliations and only rarely accepting
outside advertising. The solicited person, because of his friendliness
agreed, based upon these representations, to take a quarter page ad at
an agreed price of $130.00. Upon investigation which negated these
representations, a telegram was sent rescinding the agreement based
upon misrepresentation. When the telegram was received in Chicago the
magazine's representatives again contacted by long distance 'phone the
solicited person and tried to change his mind. A police official in one of
our large cities is a close personal friend of the man who had been
solicited. This police officer is also a member of the Craft. He wrote the
Grand Lodge of Illinois outlining the circumstances and in reply the
Grand Master of that jurisdiction wrote:
"The National Fraternal News has the dubious distinction of
being the largest blot on the reputation of our fraternity for
the past several years. Its notoriety for misrepresenting the
extent of its circulation has been a continued source of local
aggravation and we now regret to learn that its unorthodox
activities are being practiced on a national scope."

.
There have been several other matters of less serious nature called
OTHER PUBLICATIONS

to our attention, but they have been taken care of by personal contact
by members of this committee and brought in line.
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING

Late last year there appeared in the Wall Street Journal, Pacific
Coast Edition, an ad for a job; the headline of which was the ineffable
word given in the Master Mason Degree. The advertiser was contacted.
He was a sojourner, a member of a lodge in New York State who moved
to California one year after becoming a Master Mason and had been in
this state some eleven years. Because of this inexcusable breach, our
Grand Master set the matter for trial, but before trial could take place
the accused moved to New Jersey where he now resides. Not wishing to
proceed with the trial in absentia, on instructions of our Grand Master,
the charges were forwarded by our Grand Secretary to the Grand Lodge
of New York for such action as it might care to take.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

142

143

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

R. }AMES SARVER
From several sources we were informed that this person. who
er on
represe nts himself to be a Maste r Mason and Interna tional Lectur
r on
lecture
and
ry
Mason
ed
Accept
and
the "antiqu ities of ancien t Free
to
bring
to
ored
endeav
has
who
and
phy"
philoso
and
Mason ic idealog y
India.
pass the authen tic existence of this ancien t fratern ity in China.
a fee
Persia and South America has offered to lecture to lodges for
mema
be
to
claims
Sarver
( $50.00) total service and expense. Doctor
tion of
ber of Correg idor/So uthern Cross Lodge No. 3 under the jurisdic
we
ary
Secret
Grand
our
gh
Throu
ines.
Philipp
the Grand Lodge of the
fact.
a
is
this
not
or
r
whethe
in
ascerta
to
are endeav oring
DR.

MISCEL LANEO US

.
We have had referre d to this committee a numbe r of other matters
the
were
ss
doubtle
which
and
not one of which was of a serious nature
result of inadve rtence or perhap s ignorance of our law. These matters
d
were easily correct ed by calling to the attenti on of the person s involve
law.
the facts and our
CONCL USION

It is appare nt that the pattern has been formed and with a conement
tinuing educat ional progra m which should be set up further improv
in
nia
Califor
of
Lodge
Grand
the
of
will be noted. The suprem acy
ant
append
the
by
ed
accept
now
is
tion
jurisdic
this
matter s Mason ic in
late
bodies. Again it should be said that all credit must be given to the
ipful
Worsh
the
to
Worsh ipful Ralph K. Pierson . former Chairm an, and
nt
Donald G. Campbell, former Committee Secret ary and now Assista
several
the
of
ation
cooper
the
with
,
Grand Lecturer, for having evolved
backGrand Master s since the formation of this committee, the sound
.
picture
t
presen
the
about
t
brough
has
which
g
thinkin
ground and logical
N.
Phil
W.
The thanks and apprec iation of this committee go to M.
n. He
Myers . our Grand Master . for his indulgence and kindly directio
have
to
re
pleasu
t
distinc
a
has been a great help to us and it has been
served under him.
Respectfully submitted.
V. P. McMU RDO, Chairman
HERBE RT R. HARGR AVE
WILLA RD A. BRAAS CH
}ACK L. BLAINE
HARVE Y HARKN ESS

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON LODG E FINA NCIN G
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand Lodge Comm ittee on Lodge Financ ing respect fully submits its repo_rt for the 1958-1 959 Mason ic year.
to
During the past year the Committee has approv ed six applications
purthe
ed
approv
es:
Templ
ic
commence construction on new Mason
ion of
chase of nine new sites; and has assiste d Lodges in the format
to
tions
applica
their
in
ations
Associ
e
Templ
ic
fourteen new Mason
Many
nia.
incorp orate under the Non-pr ofit laws of the State of Califor
e
other applications concerning the expend iture of Lodge and Templ
to
tions
applica
en
sevente
Funds were processed among which were
air
remodel and renova te existing Templ es and to purcha se and install
es
Templ
ive
respect
th,e
of
tenants
the
which
conditioning systems with
of
es
activiti
the
of
details
the
of
resume
brief
A
.
are very much pleased
in the
the Committee is made a part of this report and will be printed
Your
on.
unicati
Official Procee dings of this 1959 Grand Lodge Comm
ended.
recomm
ively
attenti on to the detaile d activities is respect
As many of the brethre n are aware, the Committee has made a strong
effort during the past year to assist Templ e Associations and Lodges
operaoperati ng Mason ic Templ es to show a profit or increase in their
and
ittee
Comm
the
of
nt
ageme
encour
and
l
counse
the
of
result
a
tion. As
there
that
report
can
the full cooperation of the Templ e Associations we
ahas been a healthy activity on the part of a11 Lodges and Templ e Associ
acooper
and
activity
This
es.
Templ
tions in the operati on of Mason ic
those
of
part
the
on
tion
realiza
sincere
a
fiom
tion of a11 concerned stems
ss
dedica ted Mason s who are responsible for the operati on of the busine
in
ss
busine
their
t
of the individual. Templ es that Mason s must conduc
such a way that the material assets of Mason ry are fully protect ed.
in
The effect of the efforts of the Templ e Associ ations is reflected
on
operati
the
in
year
past
the
in
made
been
the improvements that have
thirty
of the . financial transac tions of the Templ es. Approx imately
in
that
so
s
upward
les
schedu
rental
d
adjuste
have
ations
Templ e Associ
of
e
increas
an
the future their profit and loss statem ents will show
iation
pro8t even with the additio nal expens e item added of a cash deprec
conof
result
the
are
but
easy
account. These adjustm ents were not
officers
and
ittee
Comm
the
of
rs
membe
n
sultatio ns and meetings betwee
of 103 Templ e Associations.
During the past year 239 Templ e A~sociations and Lodges that
d
operat e going Templ es have submdtted Financ ial Statem ents as require
of
assets
show
ng
reporti
by Section · 200 of the Mason ic Code. Those
a total
over-1 7 million dollars or to be exact. $17, 784 ,585.00. 146 show
g
totallin
loss
a
report
84
only
and
13.00
pro8t or gain of $251.2
gains,
the
to
n
relatio
in
great
r
·appea
may
loss
this
$107,297.00. While
by
yet a great part of this, $62,981.00. is cash depreciation set aside

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the 84 Temple Associations which reported a loss. The total cash depreciation set aside by Temple Associations in the past year amounts to
$170,698.00. These figures represent a greatly improved condition, and
we trust that future operations will improve even more.
Another bright facet of the financial condition of Temple Associations iis shown by the expenditure in the past year of over $116,000.00
for capital improvements in the form of remodeling and renovating
necessary to put existing Temples in first class modern condition.
While the financial condition. of Temple Associations is generally
improvdng, we must not lose sight of the fact that during the past year
145 Temple Associations did not report any depreciation account. This,
of course, must be rectified in order to have consistency throughout the
jurisdiction in the matter of reporting financial operations, and to ease
the pressure on the Temple Asociations because of their working too
close to their income and not allowing funds for repairs and incidental
items that are always popping up. During the coming year the Committee will concentrate on these Temple Associations and render all
assistance possible.
One of the difficulties encountered by the committee in its work has
been the manner of reporting financial condition on the present Form
200. This will be rectified by the adoption of an improved method of
reporting which embodies a comparative system and will be a lot easier
to understand by the persons directly connected with the preparation
of them.
In addition to the following resume of the Committee's activities for
the past year, hundreds and hundreds of added communications from
various Lodges and Temple Associations relative to matters under the
jurisdiction of the Committee on Lodge Financing have been acknowledged and processed.

non-profit corporation. The Committee was very pleased to grant its
consent.

CORINTHIAN LoDGE No. 9

Mary$ville
Marysville Masonic Hall Co. requested consent to borrow $4,000.00
from Bank of America to complete the work on the Temple. A review of
the financial condition of the Hall Co. clearly showed a sound ability to
pay off the loan according to the terms presented. In addition thereto
income was increased through rentals and the Committee was pleased
to grant its consent.
Napa
Yount Lodge requested permission to purchase 108 shares of stock
in the Temple Association from R.A.M. and the K.T.'s for a total price
of $10,800.00 on terms of 25% cash and the balance in four installments.
This was considered a very good transaction and well within the ability
of the Lodge to comfortably make and discharge. This is part of a plan
to garner all the stock with the ultimate 9oal being to reincorporate as a
YouNT LoDGE No.12

145

Santa Cruz
Santa Cruz Lodge applied for consent to transfer $700.00 of its
general funds to the Santa Cruz Temple Foundation in order to allow
the Temple Foundation to pay off a portion of its debts. After an
equitable adjustment of the rental schedules by the Foundation, the
Committee granted consent to the application.
NATOMA LoDGE No. 64
Folsom
The Masonic Hall Association of Folsom, controlled by Napa Lodge,
requested $7.000.00 from the Lodge in order to complete the enclosure
of the new Temple in Folsom. The Lodge having funds on hand and a
good plan of utilizing labor donated by the members of the Lodge
being shown, the Committee granted its consent to the transfer of the
funds in exchange for a regular membership certificate issued by the
Hall Association and approve the construction plans.
HUMBOLT LoDGE No. 79
Eureka
Humboldt Lodge requested permission to transfer $4,000.00 to the
Humboldt Masonic Temple Association so that the Temple Association
could refinish and modernize the Temple to comply with terms of a
lease. Lease was for a commercial rental and rentals were adequate to
repay that amount. Lease for 15 years at a minim um rental of $12,000.00
per year plus percentage. The Committee approved the lease and the
loan.
SANTA CRUZ No. 38

Arcata
Application of Arcata Lodge to transfer Lodge property to City of
Arcata because of peculiar circumstances. Arcata Lodge is of the
opinion that it would be cheaper to transfer property than hold it. City
offered free rent to Lodge for 1S. years in consideration of the transfer.
Application incomplete and awaiting further particulars. Will be discussed fully at Grand Lodge. No consent granted.
ARCATA LoooE No.106

Paradise
Table Mountain Lodge requested consent to spend $24,000.00 to
construct an addition to the present Temple. The application did not
contain sufficient information to process and the Committee is now
awaiting complete information. No consent granted.
TABLE MouNTAIN LoDGE No. 124

Visalia
Visalia Masonic Building Association applied for consent to expend
$7,777.72 for the purchase and installation of an air conditioning system
for the Temple. This application was made to clear the record of an
expenditure already made and after meeting with the brethren of Visalia
it was found that the amount therefor was donated for the specific
VISALIA LoooE No. 128

146

147

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

purpose and consent was granted by the Committee for the expenditure.
The brethren of Visalia have problems peculiar to the district and are
presently cooperating fully with the Committee in resolvin·g them for the
benefit of Masonry.

Rio Vista
The Rio Vista Masonic Temple Association requested consent to
spend an additional $2,000.00 for further costs of installing an air conditioning system in the Rio Vista Temple, and sufficient funds being on
hand to pay the same, the Committee was pleased to grant the consent
to the application.

Redwood City
requested consent to install
Association
Hall
The Redwood Masonic
an air conditioning system in the present Temple for $8,000.00 and
needed $6,000.00 to finance the operation. Redwood City Lodge had
money available for the purpose and agreed to trans£ er that amount to
the Hall Association subject to Committee approval. A review of the
facts indicated necessity for the project and the ability of the Lodge to
pay and the Committee was pleased to grant consent to the Lodge to
transfer the money to the Hall Association for the Assocfation to make
the installation.
REDWOOD CITY LoDGE No. 168

Windsor
Russian River Lodge requested consent to transfer $500.00 of its
general funds to the Masonic Building Association in exchange for a
Regular Membership in like amount in the Building Association to all
the Association to reduce the amount of its real estate indebtedness.
Ability to complete the transaction was apparent and the Committee
granted the consent.

RUSSIAN RlvER LoDGE'No. 181

Castroville
Confidence Lodge requested permission to purchase property a~ the
rear of the present Lodge Hall for the purpose of a parking area but did
not present sufficient details to the Committee on which it could base an
opinion. Committee requested further information and not having
received the same denied consent.
CONFIDENCE LoDGE No. 203

Salinas
The Masonic Hall Associatio.n of Salinas has been working on a plan
for the building of a new Temple and has presented to the Committee
an application for consent to construct the Temple for $240,000.00. Upon
analysis of the plan and the financing thereof, the Committee found that
the plan was sufficiently completed to permit the granting of consent to
start construction. The brethren of Salinas are to be congratulated on
the fine work that they have done, and the excellent manner in which
they have cooperated with members of the Committee.

SALINAS LoDGE No. 204

Anaheim
Anaheim Lodge No. 207 and Mother Colony Lodge No. 750 applied
for consent to form a joint Temple Association and incorporate a nonprofit Temple Association. Through excellent fraternal cooperation of
the brethren of the two Lodges with the Committee the project was
completed. Consent granted.

ANAHEIM LoDGE No. 207

Rm V1sT A LoDGE No. 208

Livermore
The Masonic Temple Association of Livermore applied for consent
to amend its Articles of Incorporation concerning the reincorporation of
its Temple Association as a non-profit organization. Legal requirements
being satisfied, consent thereto was granted.
MOZAIC LoDGE No. 218

Downey
Building Association of Downey made application to spend $6,000.00
for remodeling the present Temple. The Committee requested additional
information including a financial statement of the operation of the
Temple for 1950, and since the added information was not furnished to
the Committee no consent has been yet granted to spend the money.

DowNEY LoDGE No. 220

Roseville
Application of Roseville Masonic Temple Association for information concerning the repurchase of 211 shares of stock in the present
Temple Association and reincorporation as a non-profit corporation.
Negotiations are presently in process and will no doubt be concluded at
the 1959 Communication.
ROSEVILLE LoDGE No. 222

Fresno
This Tempi~ Company made application for approval of a prior
expenditure of $32,618.22 for major changes in the Temple construction
which included addition of fire sprinklers and other installations. After
full investigation with the cooperation of the Brethren of Fresno, and a
full audit of the Temple Co. finances, the Committee granted consent
thereto in order to clear the record.
FRESNO MASONIC TEMPLE Co.

Tulare
The Masonic Temple Association was given the opportuni<ty to buy
property adjacent to the present Temple in Tulare for the sum of
$7 ;000.00. Application to purchase was presented to the Committee
stating the terms thereof to be no money down and $75.00 per month at
5Yi % interest. Investigation showing that the Lodge and the Temple
· Association had ability to discharge the obligation to pay therefor on
present income, the Committee granted its consent to the application.
OLIVE BRANCH LoDGE No. 267

Oakdale
Oakdale Lodge requested consent to form a non-profit Temple corporation and transfer $1,000.00 from the Lodge to the Temple Association
OAKDALE LoDGE No. 274

149

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

when formed in exchange for a Regular Membership in the Temple
Association in like amount. Consent granted.

Oakland
FRUITVALE LoDGE No. 336
Fruitvale Lodge applied for consent to buy up outstanding stock in
the Masonic Temple Association presently held by surviivors of deceased brethren. Consent was granted to an expenditure therefor not
to exceed $300.00.

148

Selma
SELMA LoDGE No. 277
Selma Lodge requested consent to lease a portion of its vacant
property adjacent to the Temple for use as a parking lot. The other
party agreed to black top the lot and put in all the bumper strips and
allow the Lodge to use the same without payment of rent. Lease for five
years at adequate rental on above conditions was approved by the Committee.
San Diego
SILVERGATB LoDGE No. 296
Temple Association to repair and
Masonic
Application of Silvergate
having been thoroughly infacilities
kitchen
modernize the present
grant consent to the exto
pleased
was
Committee
the
vestigated,
penditure of $5,000.00 therefor.
Santa Clara
LIBERTY LODGE No. 299
Committee formerly granted consent to the Masonic Hall Association
of Santa Clara to purchase a building site on Catherine Street. Difficulties arose over inability to secure proper zoning and upon application of
the Hall Association, the Committee rescinded its former consent and
instructed the Hall Association to secure a refund of its deposit money.
Ontario
ONTARIO LoDGE No. 301
The Masonic Hall Association of Ontario requested consent to start
construction of a new Temple and then spend $36,000.00 on the enclosure only. Review of the financial condition of the Hall Association
revealed sufficient money on hand and an adequate program for raising
the balance to complete the entire building. Consent granted.
Whittier
WHITTIER LoDGE No. 323
Whittier Masonic Temple Association and Whittier Lodge requested
consent to purchase a new building site for $55,000.00. The Temple
Association needed $15,000.00 from the Lodge to complete the purchase.
The Lodge had sufficient funds on hand to allow it to transfer that
amount to the Association in exchange for a Regular Membership in the
Association and the Committee granted consent to the transfer of the
funds from the Lodge to the Association and gave consent to the Association to make the purchase.
Long Beach
LoNG BEACH LoDGE No. 327
in a biulding fund that was held
$3,000.00
Long Beach Lodge had
of building the new Temple. It
expenses
of
payment
the
in trust for
requested consent to transfer that sum to the Long Beach Masonic
Temple Association to deEray expenses on the new Temple. Consent
was granted.

Los Angeles
SAN FERNANDO LoDGE No. 343
Association was faced with obligaBuilding
Lodge
San Fernando
tions amounting to $5,000.00 and did not have the money to meet them.
Upon proper application being made, San Fernando Lodge was granted
consent to transfer $5,000.00 from Lodge funds to the Building Asociation in exchange for a 25-year non-interest bearing note executed by the
Building Association.
Oakland
SEQUOIA LoDGE No. 349
Sequoia Lodge applied for and was granted consent to purchase stock
of the Masonic Temple Association of Berkeley from individual holders
of the stock as the same became available, the total cost thereof not to
exceed $750.00.
Los Angeles
PALESTINE LoDGE No. 351
Palestine Masonic Building Association requested consent to sell
members of Palestine Lodge 20-year non-interes t bearing notes in
denominations of $100.00 with no more than five such notes sold to any
one member and the total notes sold not to exceed $9,000.00. The money
realized was to pay off certain future obligations of the Building Associations in a lump sum at a considerable saving. The plan and the reason
therefor were fully investigated and as aresult thereof consent was
granted.
Los Angeles
GOLDEN STATE LoDGE No. 358
Golden State Masonic Temple Association requested consent to re.finance the indebtednes s of the Temple so that all the obligations outstanding could be handled through one payment to one lending
institution. The amount necessary was $75,000.00. While such procedures are not recommend ed by the Committee, yet under the facts
of this case, the Committee granted its consent. Since the granting of
the consent, additional rentals were secured and the Temple Association
is now operating very well under the refinancing agreement.
Fresno
LAs PALMAS LoDGE No. 366
Request to form a non-profit Temple Corporation and transfer
$1,000.00 of Lodge funds to the new corporation in exchange for a
Regular membership in the corporation granted.
Los Angeles
WPST Los ANGELES LoDGE No. 373
West Los Angeles Builders 373 Club requested consent to spend
$3,500.00 to install an air conddtioning system in the Temple and upon

151

PROCIHIDINGS OF .THE •

GRAND l'..ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

review of the financial structure it was found that it had ample funds on
hand to pay for the work without interfering with their present financial
operations and therefore the Committee granted consent to their request.

Coronado
Application was made by the subject bodies for consent to spend
$2,750.00 to rewire the Temple Building. Their financial condition in.dicated that the expenditure could be made without interference with
their operating capital. The Committee was happy to grant its consent.

150

Los Angeles
Palos Verdes Building Fund petitioned for consent to' purchase
various items to complete the furnishings of the new Temple and showed
ample funds on hand to pay for the items. The Committee granted
consent to spend $6.739.51 for the requested items.
PALOS VERDES LoDGE No. 389

Los Angeles
Glendora Lodge applied for co~sent to incorporate . a non-profit
Temple Corporation and the matter is still in process.

GLENDORA LoDGE No. 404

La Mesa
La Mesa Temple had a stock corporation operating the Temple and
have been granted consent to form a non-profit Temple Corporation as
a preliminary to dissolution of the present stock company. The stock
company is presently in the process of being dissolved. The procedure
is available to others on request.
.
Upland
UPLAND LoDGE No. 419
Temple
non-profit
a
Upland Lodge has requested consent to form
Corporation and the ~ommittee was pleased to grant consent thereto.

LA MESA LoDGE No. 407

Inglewood
Inglewood Masonic Temple Association requested permission to
purchase property next to the present Temple for expansion purposes
for the sum of $23.500.00 plus costs of escrow. The appraisals were in
order and showed that the value of the property was in excess of the
purchase price. The Temple Association did not have sufficient money
to make the purchase so the Lodge agreed to lend the Association the
amount of the purchase price in exchange for a note for $23,500.00 to be
repaid to the Lodge out of profits of the operation of the Temple. The
Committee was pleased to grant consent to the entire transaction.
INGLEWOOD LoDGE No. 421

CHINO VALLEY LoDGE No. 427

Chino

Granted con~ent to amend the by-laws of Chino Valley Masonic
Building Association increasing the cost of contributing memberships to
$25.00. Also to change the meeting night of the Association.

Maricopa
Maricopa Lodge requested consent to transfer $500.00 of Lodge
Funds to the Maricopa Masonic Temple Association to complete the
payments incidental to building of their Temple. Upon review of the
finances of both groups it was found that it would be to the best interest
of the Lodge to loan the $500.00 t~ the Temple Association for the
purpose stated. The Committee granted its consent to the request.
MARICOPA LoDGE No. 434

CORONADO LoDGE No: 441

La Puente
La Puenta Lodge has been leasing their present Lodge Hall from
owner of the building and the present lease expired. After review of
the financial structure of the group and a check of the sub-lease agreements, the Committee was pleased to grant its consent to a new lease
to run five years.
LA PUENTE LoDGE No. 446

Tracy
Mt. Oso Lodge requested consent to transfer $1,500.00 to the Mt.
Oso Masonic Building Association in exchange for a Regular Membership worth $1.500.00 so that the Building Association could install an
air conditioning unit in the Temple. A review of the file indicated that
Committee consent should be granted and consent was issued.
MT. Oso LoDGE No. 460

Bell
Bell Lodge requested consent to transfer $6.200.00 to the Temple
Association for the purpose of installing an air conditioning system in
the Temple. The Lodge had ample funds and therefore, upon assurance
that the Temple Association would -raise the rentals of the Temple, consent was granted.
BELL LoDGE No. 483

Patterson
Patterson Lddge petitioned for consent to form a non-profit Temple
Corporation and to transfer the sum of $250.00 to the Association when
formed taking a Regular Membership therein as security. Consent was
granted.
PATIERSON LoDGE No. 488

San Francisco
Lebanon Lodge also requested consent to form a Temple Corporation
and to transfer $500.00 to the Association when formed in exchange
for a Regular Membership therein. Consent was granted.
LEBANON LoDGE No. 495

Cupertino
to purchase a new building site
consent
requested
Lodge
Sunnyvale
for $23,150.00 with terms of $7,000.00 down and the balance secured
by a Trust Deed. Payment to be made on the Trust Deed upon sale of
their old San Francisco Road property. The financial structure was in
good order and consent was granted by the Committee.
SuNNYVALE LoDGE No. 511

Monterey Park
The Belvedere Masonic Building Association requested consent to
start construction of a new Masonic Temple in Monterey Park and
BELVEDERE LoDGE No. 539

152

153

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

expend the sum of $15,000.00 therefor to enclose the building. Upon
review of the financial structure of the Association and the plan of
building the Temple with volunteer labor, the Committee was pleased to
grant consent to the project.
PARK BOULEVARD loDGE No. 568
Oakland
Park Boulevard Masonic Temple Association has requested consent
to enter into a 5 year lease of the present facilities at $150.00 per month.
To be considered at 1959 Communication.
SOJOURNER loDGE No. 607
Duarte
Sojourner Lodge requested permission to transfer $2,000.00 to the
Masonic Temple Association for the purpose of paying the cost of
installing an air conditioning system in the Temple. Financial ability
to make the expenditure was proven and the Committee was pleased to
grant its consent.
BIG BEAR loDGE No. 617
Big Bear
Big Bear Lodge requested consent to form a non-profit corporation
to operate its present temple and transfer $200.00 of its funds to the
Temple Association when formed. After reviiew of the matter it was
found that the Temple Association should be incorporated and consent
was granted.
BENEVOLENCE loDGE No. 631
North Hollywood
Request to form a Temple Corporation granted.

Temple Association to pay off the balance due on the mortgage and
repair the roof of the Temple. The financial basis was sound and the
Committee granted consent.

Riverside
Application of the Lodge to transfer $15,000.00 to the Riverside
Masonic Temple Association for the purpose of completing and furnishing the new Temple. The financial structure of the Lodge was in excellent shape and the expenditure could be made without interfering with
the operating capital. The Committee was pleased to grant consent on
the condition that the Temple Association issue a Regular Membership
of like value to the Lodge.
RivERSIDE loDGE No. 635

Lomita
Lomita Lodge requested consent to transfer $4,500.00 to the Lomita
Masolllic Temple Association for the purpose of purchasing and installing an air conditioning system in the Temple. Financial ability being
apparent, the Committee granted its consent to the request.
loMITA loDGE No. 644

JoHN D. SPRECKLES LoooB No. 657

San Diego
Petition to transfer $3,200.00 from the Lodge to the Temple Association to pay architect fees and incidental cost of construction of the new
Temple. Consent granted.
RESEDA loDGE No. 666
Reseda
Application of Reseda Lodge to transfer $20,000.00 to its Temple
Association for the purpose of completion of the new Temple in Reseda.
The Committee granted consent after review of the finances of the Lodge
and Temple Association showed that the transfer could be made from
existing funds.
Banning
San Gorgonio has planned for some time to build a new Temple in
Banning and requested consent to transfer $14,000.00 to iits Masonic
Building Association for the purpose of paying for materials. They had
a good plan of using donated labor to build the Temple, the plans were
good, and the estimates of the cost of materials were found to be correct.
The Committee granted consent to the transfer of funds in exchange for
a note in like amount and authorized the Temple Association to start the
enclosure of the building.
LIBERAL ARTS loDGE No. 677
Los Angeles
Application of the 677 Benevolent Fund to spend an additional
$10,000.00 on the construction of the Temple. Funds were available
and the Committee granted consent to the application.
0ILDALE loDGE No. 688
Bakersfield
Request for consent to purchase a building site for the new Temple
for $7,900.00 plus costs of escrow and request by the Lodge to buy a
Regular Membership in the Temple Association for $10,000.00 to defray
the cost of purchase of the site and for operating capital. Review of the
Bnancial structure indicated that the Committee should grant consent.
The Committee was pleased to approve both transactions.
SAN GoRGONIO loDGE No. 668

Rosemead
Application of the Lodge to loan the Temple Association $3,000.00
to put the Temple in a rentable condition. Consent was granted.
RosEMEAD LoooE No. 702

La Crescenta
Crescenta Valley Lodge requested consent to transfer $9,500.00 to
its Masonic Temple Association for the purpose of paying off the entire
indebtedness of the Temple. Financial ability to make the transfer was
shown and the Committee granted consent. The Temple is now clear.

San Bruno
Application of San Bruno Masonic Temple Association to purchase
a building site for $18.500.00. Financial ability was shown and the
Committee granted consent.

Long Beach
Monte Vista Lodge requested consent to purchase a Regular Membership in its Masonic Temple Association for $5,000.00 to enable the

Long Beach
Application of the Belmont Shore Masonic Temple Association to
borrow $6,500.00 from the Long Beach Scottish Rite Bodies to purchase

CRESCENTA VALLEY loDGE No. 652

MONTE VISTA loDGE No. 655

BLUE LAKES loDGE No. 714

BELMONT SHORE LoooE No. 716

154

155

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

and install an air conditioning system. Repay loan at $160.00 month
including 5% interest. Financial ability to repay being shown, the
Committee was pleased to grant its consent.
YucAIPA LoDGE No. 726
Yucaipa
.
Approved three year lease by the lodge. Required for lodge quarters.
TYRE LoDGE No. H 1
Downey
Application of the Lodge to form a non-profit Temple Corporation
approved.

building fund. Consent was denied and the Com~it~ee reco~mended
that the Lodge set up an incorporated Temple Association to raise ~unds
for a Temple. ·
The Committee on Lodge Financing acknowledg es the fine support
given it by our Grand Master Phil Myers and all the members of Grand
Lodge. Their wholehearte d support has been of great encouragem ent to
the members of the Committee in many trying situations. · Our Grand
Secretary and his staff have been of incalculable assistance, for without
his efficient cooperation the business of the Committee would have been
much more difficult.
·
God bless each and every one of you who have been of so 911'eat help
to the Committee in past years, and God help the members of the Committee in their untiring efforts to serve on the Committee and discharge
its many responsibilities.

MORNINGSID E PARK LODGE No. 742

Los Angeles
Application of the Lodge to spend $3,870.25 to remodel a church
building for lodge purposes and approval of a master lease. After meetings and discussion of finance the Committee was pleased to grant
consent to the application.
SAN LEANDRO LoDGE No. 7H

San Leandro
Application to incorporate the Cherry Valley Masonic Temple Association approved.
CoASTSIDE LoDGE No. 762

Pacifica
This is a live group. In the past year they have filed 2 applications.
( 1) Application of Masonic Temple Association to buy a building
site for $6,000.00.
(2) Application of Lodge to transfer $1,200.00 to the Temple Association in exchange for a Regular Membership, and for consent to start
construction of the new Temple.
After review of the financial aspects of the project, the Committee
was pleased to grant consent to both applications.
PALMDALE LoDGE No. 769

Palmdale
Application of Palmdale Masonic Building Association to start construction of the new Temple. Donated material---d onated labor. This
group of Brethren is fantastic, as one of the members of the Committee
stated: "those boys could make out anywhere." The Commitee was
pleased to grant consent to start building and the Lodge cornerstone was
recently laid.
Whittier
Application to incorporate a .Masonic Temple Association approved.

EAsT WHITTIER LoDGE No. 776

LA MIRADA LoDGE No. 778

Buena Park ·
Application to amend by-laws of the Temple Association and borrow
$1,000.00 from the Lodge for operating expenses. The Committee granted consent.
RIVIERA LoDGE No. 780

Los Angeles
Amendmen t to by-laws of the Temple Association approved.

SIERRA LoooE No. 788

Bass Lake
. . Sierra Lodge requested consent to set aside funds of the Lodge in a

Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT HARGRAVE, }R.
E. HERBERT PHILLIPS
GLEN
HOLBERT
MARK A. GREEN
CARLYLE F. VAN PATTEN
FRED H. BLANCHARD
SIDNEY SEA
0RLO R. PEUGH
GEORGE
STURM

c.

w.

REPORT OF CODE COMMISS ION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Commission is pleased to report that, following the close of the
last Communication of this Grand Lodge, there was compiled and published a cumulative supplement covering the decisions approved and
changes in law made at the 1957 and 1958 Co~~unicatio~s .. Plan~ have
been made for the preparation by your Commission of a similar cumulative supplement which will include the change~ ~ade at the 1959 Communication. It is the intention of your Commission to commence work
on this supplement as soon as copies of the necessary documents are
received from the office of the Grand Secretary.
It is requested that an appropriatio n of $150.00 be ~a~e to cover the
anticipated traveling and other expenses by your Commis51on.
Respectfully submitted.
WILLIAM NANKERVIS, }R.
EDWARD T. KoPORD
ELMER
HEALD
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLA IN
DAVID P. RusSELL

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

156

PROCEBDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON PUBUC SCHOOLS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Fortieth Observance of Grand Lodge Public Schools Week
represents a crown of glorious distinction for California Grand Lodge.
for Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams, for Grand Master
Myers and his officers.
As the expansion of California Public Schools in their efforts to meet
demands of. increasing population and extended offerings required in
modem society evolves, so the !intensity of numbers and efforts of
Masonic friends for public education are required.
Californi~ is glori~us .in its many faceted aspects of growth, developm4:'11.t· expans~~n, and m its advances in culture, productiveness, and the
spmtual stability of its people. What happens, how it is done, and the
ways of happening in all fields of human advancement in California are
examples to many states and many lands.
The Californi~ Public School System has since the inception of
~rand Lo.d.ge Public Sch~ols programs never been found in second place
m reco~nitlon and standing among the great Public School Systems in
the United States of America. This refers to quality of educational program, adequacy of finance for public schools, expansion and extension
of offerings of public schools. This has great meaning in matters of
standards of teacher training and certification, facilities, services, and
m~nagement for educational advantage for the people, especially the
children and youth of our state.
During our fo~y years of. publ.ic school interest and dynamic activity
every phase of ~his great California educational program and its growth
have had our vigorous, constant, and intelligent study and support.
Let us look for a moment at the dimensions of our California Public
School System.
. For the 1959-60 school year there will be enrolled in public schools
m our State 3,866,000 pupils. 2,450,000 of these will be children in
elementary public schools. Nearly half a million will be adults in public
~chools. '1!1e largest percentage of public school population in any state
in the United States will be in colleges of the public school system of
education in California.
. I? California there are 1774 individual public school districts. Some
districts are small, one is the third largest in our nation. Each of these
districts is governed by a Board elected by the people of the district.
Here we find a fertile area for constant cultivation as we with our Masonic devotion to public education would have the electorate be intelligent in choices at ballot marking time.
I~ 19.59-60 the budgets for the public education program of- Cali~ornia will be o~e and one-half billion dollars. The main expenditure
is that for teaching services. A total of 122,400 members make up the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

157

public school professional educational staff as the 1959-60 school year
opens.
OUR PURPOSES

Clear, strong, firm, and simple Masonic purposes to be served in
relationship to public schools have been in force during the 1958-59
Masonic Public Schools Committee year. Throughout the year and
with particular emphasis during Public Schools Week 1959 purposes as
follows have been served:
1. To know the "why" of public education in and for our state
and country.
2. Having real and true knowledge about public schools.
3. Developing a dear understanding of the reasons for Masonic
interest in and advancement of public schools.
4. Being informed as to the needs of public schools in the places
where Masons live and devising ideas and plans for helping in
the services of needs of public schools.
5. Becoming leaders in the advancement and improvement of the
conditions of public schools and their support.
6. Informing the public schools that Masons are friends of public
education and that they are ready to be called to the service of
public schools.
WHAT HAPPE.NED-1 959

There was extreme Masonic alertness and ready service concerning
public schools everywhere in California. No non-political, non-sectarian, non-professional body of intelligent thinkers gives more attention
to public education, public schools, or children in public schools than do
the more than 1,000 Masonic Lodges and related Masonic bodies in our
state.
The statistics concerning visits, meetings, attendance at special
occasions, all held in behalf of advancement of public education, are so
tremendous that they are impossible to tabulate. More important than
numbers and facts concerning participation are the reports of spirit,
leadership, goodwiJI, cooperation, and results in community support for
public schools expressed through Masonic activity.
It is particularly significant now that support for Public Schools
Week is practically unanimous. Most objections to the purposes. plans,
activities, and programs are erased. In fact, private and parochial
schools, too, take part in the general emphasis on education, home-school
cooperation, and child and youth services and leadership.
It may be said positively that the same purposes for youth and
country as are served in public schools, with the encouragement of the

158

159

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

activities of our fraternity. are now approved, accepted, supported, and
advanced by nearly all youth-centered organizations. This applies
whether such organizations . are religious, social, public, civic, private,
volunteer, or paid.
Forty years of Masonic Public Schools Week effort is not due the
entire credit for the development of youth services through public schools
-yet, none of the extensions, expansions, constructive changes and new
services in public schools have failed to have prompt, early, real, and
vigorous support by California Free Masonry.
The things that have happened in behalf of public education through
speciftc, direct, and constant effort during 1958-59 are summed up as
·
follows:
1. Parents, citizens, taxpayers, older pupils, and espectially Masons came to know the "why" and "hO\V" of public education.
More than two million "visitors" came to public school meetings
during Public School Week 1959. In round numbers, 5000
meetings were held throughout California Grand Lodge jurisdiction-and think of it-Public Schools Week stimulated participation by 825,000 children and youth in programs, contests, ·
meetings, demonstrations, community events where the fine,
good, clean, cultural. wholesome, and favorable side of youth
and the school were shown to such advantage that great faith
in children, youth, and schools was vigorously restored and
established.
2. Publications, news reports, broadcasts, speeches, posters, demonstrations and public as well as school displays told the "good
story" for young Californians and for public schools. Masons
were in the background but were ever potent forces in every
effort.
3. The Adult education program of the public schools took sharper
and keener interest in the 1959 observances than ever before.
Every adult who is a part of a Masonic organization was capable
and ready to tell the significant need for constant. high quality.
free public schools in our state. They told a remarkable story.
The work of research Lodges and Grand Lodge Committees
keeping the precepts, practices, and workings of Freemasonry
interpreted and integrated into year-around fraternal meetings
is the foundation of an informed Lodge membership which
speaks in behalf of public education and public schools in
California.

Great Masons have said-"Better unfed than untaught," "Let us as
patriots push forth the pursuit of wisdom for all," "An educated people
is easiest and best governed," "Better unborn than untaught," and "Better untaught than illtaught."
We have taught ourselves during forty years that we can learn of the
need for public education in our school districts.
These forty years have written history in Masonic interest and
strength in relation to public education. What has been learned is a
four-way accomplishment. While all progress in California Public
Education during the last forty years is not credited to California
Masonic interest nor may the entire field of advancement in public
education in California even be completely known to Masonry, it is yet
true and certain that the broad advances made by public schools in
California have been better known and certainly no better studied and
supported than by Masons in the jurisdiction of California.
This four-way learning program sums up in a general fashion as
"What people have learned about public education during the last forty
years," "What educators have learned about Masonic faith in public
education in these forty years," "What school students have learned
about public · education during their participation in Public Schools
Weeks programs during the last forty years," and "What California
Masons have learned about public education in forty years of California
Grand Lodge support of the public schools of our state."
Let us take a general look at each of these learning programs and
experiences:
I. "What people have learned as public school support has been
stressed by Masonic Lodges."
People have l~rned that the schools are only as good as the people
want them to be. People have learned that in order to support the
public schools, they must understand the public schools. People have
learned that no function of governmental service in our democracy and
under the system of controls of public schools in California is as close
to the people and their desires as are the public schools of California.
People ·have learned that the California structure of public education is a simple, intimately associated, directly responsive program in
which public interest, public intelligence, and public wishes are reflected
by action of the public. Only the public can control its public schools in
California, if it will. Just as in every aspect of the direction of life,
whether public, private, individual, group life, social life, or civic life; so
with public education, the intelligent interest of the people can be expressed and can control. in fact it must control. the public schools.
People have been exposed to teachings by discussions held in Masonic Lodges. They have learned that not only can the people have the
kind of public education they want, but that the people must know
what are the characteristics of good public education and good public

LET

Us NoTE THis!

Great Masonically-thinking men throughout history have given the
"mind-set" for our interest in public schools-yes, for our responsibility
in advancing public education.

160

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

schools, and they. the people, must demand such type of public education
and public schools.
Where there are not good public schools in California, the life of
the community can perish.
During forty years of Public Schools Week. services conducted by
Freemasonry. the people have been urged to know and visit their schools.
Last year one out of every four of our people in California did visit and
share in a Public Schools Program during Public Schools Week Observances.
The people have learned why we have public schools, why they
must be strong public schools, why the schools must have friends. The
people have learned the great advantage of eternal vigilance in knowing
public schools, supporting public schools. showing fearless defense of
the structure of public education in California. Our citizens are recognizing that the American ideals of democracy. freedom, equality, justice,
and charity are presented in good public education and are also exempli.fled by the principles and practices of Freemasonry.
People in California during forty years of Public Schools Week and
through Masonic advancement of public education have come to accept
the ideals upon which American public education is established. Education for all, to suit all, to preserve country under God.
II. "During almost half a century of Public Schools Week dynamics in Masonry. educators, administrators, supervisors, and teachers
have had the benefits of direct and impressive learnings about Masonry
and California Public Education."
These public schools personnel groups have learned that Masonry
in California is an informed, loyal. effective Friend of public education.
School people know that Masonry constitutes a dedicated, organized.
unselfish, devoted, and working agency for the protection, advancement,
and strengthening of the public schools and the California program of
public education.
School leaders have learned that California Freemasonry wants to be
informed, intelligent, and ever-ready as an agency for the interpretation
and strengthening of public schools. Never have public schools found
Masonry operative as a body desiring to "run-the-schools" or to specify
a program of teaching for use in our public schools. In this regard
Masonry is without ,doubt one of the greatest of the organizations expressing in belief, in practical works, and by Faith. a firm bulwark of
strength ready and waiting call to maintain and service public schools.
School people have learned, not that by power of Masonry--or by
the wealth of Masonry. or by the militant action of Masonry; but that by
sympathetic understanding. by faith in public education, by confidence in
public school leadership and teachers, we are a body of God-fearing men
of families. of community interest, of loyalty to country and of dedi-

cation to free public schools who stand ready. We are Friends. We
are Ready.
III. "What school students have learned by participation in Public
Schools Week activities during forty years."
This is the greatest good that has come out of our devoted efforts
during these forty years.
Public school pupils have learned that there is a great body of men
who have faith in youth. Public school students have been taught by our
efforts with the schools during these forty years that every thinking
man of us cares, and cares sincerely, that public school pupils have the
very best opportunity that can be provided.
School pupils have learned that their good efforts are recognized,
applauded, and appreciated by our great group of men in California.
Public school pupils have learned that their learning efforts and
accomplishments will open doors to our hearts, our friendship, our support, our readiness to aid them in any and all of those ways in which
good citizens, Brotherly men care for a needy young member of our
society.
Through our efforts in support of the enrichment and extension of
public education, public school pupils have learned.-

161
1

That no one is too old to learn.
There is no complete education for anything.
We must keep on learning even to stand still.
There is no substitute for good teaching.
The results of learning are never lost.
Public schools are free. available, and wellequipped. well-staffed, and of high standard.
That counseling, advisement, and conference
are all available among Masonic members who
are devoted to the attainment of greatest
success for every public school pupil.
Public school pupils have learned that the press. radio, and television
outlets, that business and industrial establishments. that professional
men and women, that every church group, all veterans bodies, labor
and service club groups. cultural institutions, and all constructive aspects
of our society unite in urgin g youth to sense a welcome to the expression
of the needs, interests, and plans for themselves.
Pupils have learned that the professional organizations of the profession of education, the tremendous Parent-Teacher Organization, The
California Teachers Association, have youth-centered reasons for existence and life.
These are the basic teaching of Public Schools Week as sustained
1

162

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

have a cons tant readiness
and continued by California Maso ns. Maso ns
ols Wee k. Efforts have
to susta in public school pupi ls--a nd Public Scho
c schools pupils.
publi
our
made this a reali ty in the consciousness of
years of Publ ic
forty
g
durin
ed
IV. "Wh at Masons have learn
Schools Wee k Obse rvan ce."
as Gran d Lodge public
Maso ns have profited more than all the other s
. Calif ornia Maso ns
schools activities have developed and advanced
h they can tie their
whic
have found a practical caus e and purp ose to
state life. Maso ns
and
,
unity
unite d and organized efforts in home, comm
their thinking and
to
enge
chall
gives
have found a field of learning that
to their acting.
c education, of its
Maso ns have learned of the history of publi
in the develop-onry
Mas
back grou nds of stren gth, of the leadership of
lities which
nsibi
respo
the
of
ment of public schools. Maso ns know
performed
have
smen
craft
tive
free-thinking, light-seeking, and opera
susta ined
be
to
is
ation
educ
c
publi
free
if
and must continue to perform
lished.
estab
is
life for all
as the fundamental rock upon which American
that
but
ct,
perfe
not
Maso ns have learned that our public schools are
runde
the
upon
t
nden
as those schools strive to be bette r they are depe
nry.
Maso
stand ing. the friendship, the supp ort of
schools need to have
Maso ns have learn ed that youn g people in our
in the community.
men
by
essed
expr
ols
stron g defense of their scho
stand ard school effort on
Thus it is that yout h will sense wort h in high
their part.
late youn g people to
Maso ns have learn ed that they too can stimu
are well for good
prep
to
l.
schoo
c
hold fast to the opportunities in publi
life.
ornia
Calif
in
and impo rtant responsibilities
what they say, what
Maso ns have learn ed that what they think,
for much indeed. Maso ns
they supp ort concerning public schools counts
er abou t public education
think and express themselves in forth right mann
s, elections, community
issue
from no veste d or selfish inter est and when
le for consideration,
peop
re
befo
attitu des favorable to public schools are
.
much
the opinions of Maso ns coun t for
that they have grea t
Mos t of all-C alifo rnia Maso ns have learn ed
.
ation
educ
c
publi
g
and grav e responsibilities concernin
as unhampered,
able,
avail
as
,
good
as
free,
Public education is only as
thinking members in our
as effective for our pupils as the million Maso nic
have it be.
state are willing to work, sacrifice, and fight to
APPR ECIA TIVE LY

in devo ted frate rnal
Let this Committee humbly, sincerely, and
g this 1958-59 Public
durin
ed
work
have
fashion exten d thank s to all who
in grate ful amou nt and in
Schools Committee Year of Activity. Than ks
Gran d Mast er, Phil N.
heart felt chara cter go to our Mos t Wor shipf ul
.
Mye rs.
to the Gran d Lodg e Committee members,
essed
expr
is
ion
eciat
Appr

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

163

members who have made
to individual Lodge Committee Chairmen and
study , interest and effort
nd
arou
this Maso nic year the great est in yearing. To all officers and
in beha lf of public school knowledge and think
your consciousness of the
members of Gran d Lodge, a compliment for
erative diligence.
work to be done and for your sympathetic, coop
loped, prep ared the
Than ks to those who have stimulated, deve
this repo rt would be
n,
Agai
ay.
start ingly Bne exhibit materials on displ
desse
expr
not
tion
enda
comm
incomplete were thank s and
his staff
and
n
uctio
Instr
ic
Publ
of
t
nden
rinte
To the State Supe
State of
the
t
To professional public school personnel throu ghou
California
of Trus tees
To members of Boar ds of Educ ation and Boards
ornia
Calif
in
ges
colle
and
s
To instructors in universitie
n
ciatio
Asso
hers
Teac
To the Calif ornia
hers
To the Calif ornia Cong ress of Pare nts and Teac
s
bodie
rnal
To cooperating Maso nic and othe r frate
To all veterans orga nizat ions
To Calif ornia orga nized labor
To churches
To service clubs
To professional organizations
To Cham bers of Commerce
To women's groups, clubs, and orga nizat ions
To business and indu stry
To press
To radio
To television
s, teams, and
To pupil, stude nt, and school clubs, stude nt bodie
state
the
of
ls
schoo
orga nizat ions in all the
To public officials and public serv'ants
mittees.
To research Lodg es and other Gran d Lodg e Com
Respectfully submitted,
VIER LING KERS EY
GEOR GE K. PALM ER
CLYD E E. CRAW FORD
PBRR Y BARR EIT
CYRI L WEE KS

c.

HOLS TEIN
GEOR GE
Jass SHEE GOG
SY DENN IS, JR.
LAW RENC E ED. CROW B

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON INS URA NCE

:
To the Mos t Wor shipf ul Gran d Lodge of California
wed the insur ance
revie
I
and
On July 24, 1959, Aller ton B. Eber t
of Gran d Lodge,
ities
activ
and
erty
carri ed by Gran d Lodg e on the prop
Homes, and the mast er
the prop erty and activities of the Maso nic
s compensation on conpolicies covering public liability and work men'
stitu ent lodges.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

In the opinion of the Insurance Committee the insurance coverage
represented by these policies is adequate to cover the exposure of these
organizations.
The policies are maintained in good order and are receiving careful
attention by the Grand Secretary's office.
The Committee has no recommendations to make as a result of this
survey.
Respectfully submitted,
ALLERTON B. EBERT
T. J. CARLILE

lodges, have pleaded the cause of the club-houses.
In our report to Grand Lodge, at the 1956 Communication we
mentione~ tha~ considerable thought had been given to the produ~tion
of a motto~ picture of the club activities-similar to the one made for
the Masonic Homes Board. At that time we mentioned that the same
Brot~er Julian Harmon, who produced the latter picture, had advised
that 'If the students did all the work, a film could be produced for about
$2,0~·?0. For the P?St thr~e years our ~tudent council has been working
on this .1d~a-prepan~g scripts, etc. This past year several students who
are maJon~g in Motion Picture Production at UCLA have taken some
the various activities and are in process of editing
excel1ent p1ct~res
the~ for motion picture production. It is expected that they will be
?vailabl.e for the lodges by Spring 1960. A committee from our Board
is working very closely with this group.
Our 1960 Budget ds listed below, and it is gratifying to us to be
able to show a budget figure less than the actual expenses. This is due,
of course, to the extraordinary expenses we had this year but for which
we are not asking reimbursement from Grand Lodge.
BUDGET 1959~60
MASONIC CLUB, UNIVERSITY oF CALIFORNIA AT Los ANGELES

164

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE MASONIC CLUB HOUSE, LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., of California:
Your Board of Directors takes pleasure in presenting its report for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1959.
In reports for preceding years we have explained that our building
was one of the first constructed on or near the campus-in fact this is
its thirtieth year. During that time, repalirs have been necessary to
maintain the building in perfect and modern condition.
This year we had two major items of repair:
1-The Los Angeles Department of Building and· Safety served us
with a demand that our building be earthquake proofed.
2-Extensive re-roofing was done.
The first item is explained in further detail in our budget listed
below.
The second item developed after the preparation and submission of
our budget. However, both items will be taken care of out of our
reserves.
During the year the Grand Master recommended Brother Bates
Mason as a member of our Board to succeed Brother John M. Askin,
resigned. Brother Mason is a Past Master of West Los Angeles Lodge
No. 373, and brings to our Board a working knowledge of the Club's
operations. His son, while a student at UCLA, was a member of our
Club and an officer of the Student Council.
Our Club membership remains fairly constant-between 150 and
200. We could, however, accommodate twice that figure with no increase
in expense. This situation has caused your Board some concern. Five
years ago, on the occasion of our twenty-fifth anniiversary, we had a
dinner and evening of entertainment attended by the Masters of the
Los Angeles County Lodges to let them see the Club and its facilities.
It was hoped that they would go back to their Lodges and pass on what
they had seen in order to stimulate membership.
Our Club sends a brochure of its facilities to the new enrollees at
UCLA. Grand Lodge has also recognized the need for publicity, for
the California Freemason has carried articles on both club-houses. Also,
several Grand Masters, in their communications to the subordinate

165

o!

Actual
irector ·············································-·················$ 3,259.83
Associate Director .............................................. 1,953.71
947.46
Building Assistants ............................................
480.00
Gardening and Garden 'Supplies........................
109.30
Newspapers and Magazines................................
H~t •. Light, ~ater and Power.......................... 1,059.01
~uild1~g repairs, §upplies, replacements*.......... 9,278.04
388.70
e ep one ............................................................
48.55
Office Supplies ....................................................
105.39
Postage ................................................................
Taxes:
Property ....................................................... . 3,272.60
Withholding ................................................. .
970.00
Payroll ............................................................
431.00
Insurance ..............................................................
968.60
Safe Deposit Box Rental .................................. .
5.50
Auditing ............................................................. .
150.00
Stationery and Printing............................. ,........
4.25
Refuse Service ................................................... .
90.00
Retirement Fund Payment (Faith C. Sheldon)
71.10
Masonic Club Movie. ...........................................
221.00
Miscellaneous ..................................................... .
134.21
Depreciation ·····-·················································

Budget
$ 4 500 00
1'440'00
1'440"00
'650:00
100 00
1,200:00
2,000.00
400 00
1oo:oo
100.00

$23,949.86

$21,685.00

D·

3,300.00
250.00
200.00
6.00
150.00
100.00
144.00
150.00
5,455.00

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

*Attention is directed to the item of Building repairs, supplies and
replacements. Included is a figure of $7,500.00 which we were required
to pay to have our building earthquak e-proofed . We were served with
a demand by the City of Los Angeles. Dept. of Building and Safety. that
this work be done. We took care of this out of our reserves.
Our depreciation is determine d as follows:
Building and landscapin g (less depreciation) .. $51.734.06
Depreciat ion on basis of eighteen years........
$ 2,874.00
Furniture and equipment (less depreciati on) .... 10,327.65
Depreciat ion on basis of four years..............
2,581.00

carrying out worthwhil e programs and events. It is developing a feeling
A stepped up program of
publmty t? put the name of the Masonic Club and what it represents
and what it offers, before the public generally, is one result.
A new Membersh ip Committee of student members is exploring
ways of developing a greater interest in the use of our Club House
fa~ilities by more qualified students on the campus. Pledge hour requirements for student membership have been voluntaril y reduced by the
students from 10 to 5 hours a semester.
A~ inc~easing number of student centers are appearing on or near
the University Campus and the effect of this competition for the students'
time i~ being felt by the Masonic Club, as well as by other similar type
establishe d student centers. A study is being made of the mode of
operation. membership requirements, dues schedules. etc.. of these
~tud~t c~nters, in the hope that the experience gained may be helpful
m adiustmg the operation of the Club House to meet present day
problems.
·
Supervision of the Club House has been improved. A social coord_inator to work with the active student members in planning and exe..
cutmg their social activities has been helpful to the Board and the
Executive. Director. Salary costs for carrying out our stepped up
pro~ra~ mcr~ased $2,099.00 over the previous year. Funds formerly
carried m savings accounts were invested in securities as follows:

166

Total depreciation .....................:..................

$ 5,455.00

Respectfu lly submitted,
FRANK J. REINSCH ( 1960), Chairman
CLYDE C. SHOEMAK ER ( 1962), Vice-Chairman
C. EARLE CRANE ( 1960), Secretary-Treasurer
HERBERT H. COOPER ( 1961 )
ELVIN c. DRAKE ( 1961)
MARION A. DUNCAN ( 1961)
GEORGE E. HALL ( 1960)
S. Rov HowELL ( 1960)
FRANK M. JENKINS ( 1962)
JOHN A. KLARQUIS T ( 1962)
GEORGE KussMAN ( 1962)
BATES MASON (1960)
PAUL R. NICHOLS ( 1961)
A. CURTIS SMITH ( 1962)
EDWIN w. WADE (1961)
Referred to the Committe e on Finance.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECT ORS OF
THE MASON IC CLUB OF
THE UNIVER SITY, BERKELEY, CALIFO RNIA, INC.
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Directors is pleased to submit its Annual Report
for the ft.seal year ended July 31, 1959.
We are beginning to show progress in our program to encourage
and develop a greater use of the Club House facilities by an increased
number of eligible .M asonic affiliated students .and faculty on the University Campus. A committee of the Board has been working and
meeting with a committee of the active student club members. This closer
contact is developing among the student members a better understan ding
of the objectives of Masonry and the potential of the Club House. The
suggestion s that come from these meetings is creating enthusiasm and a
spirit of student member participati on and responsibility in planning and

167

amoi_i~ the student members of belonging.

184 Shares, Boston Fund, Inc.-Com mon ........$3,490.48
325 Shares, Massachu setts Investors Trust .... 4,988.75
TOTAL.. ....................................................................

$8,479.23

It is expected that these investments will increase the income of the
Corporati on and serve as an inflation hedge for its property replacement funds.
The replacement of property during the year, amounting to
$2,626.22. represente d primarily the cost of replacing cast stone window
caps on t~e ~xterior of the building. This work was commenced prior
to t~e be~mnmg of the current period. but was completed and paid for
dunng this ft.seal year. The cost of the exterior painting, $320.00, and
other maintenance and repair costs were charged to current expense of
operations in the total amount of $1,050.09.
During the year, the Board accepted with regrets the resignatio n of
Angus S. Holden, ~hose term would expire in 1961. Brother Angus felt
that he could not give the proper time because of the pressure of business.
Charles Francis Dalziel. Master Mason. member of the Henry Morse
Stephens Lodge No. 541, was elected to the Board to succeed Brother
Angus Holden.

169

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

It is our hope that many m~mbers attending their Grand Lodge
communication may find time to visit the Club House.
The budget for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1960, adopted by the
Board and previously submitted to the Finance Committee, is as follows:

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
OLD MASONIC HALL AT LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Reference is made to previous reports of this Committee for information on this First Masonic Han in Los Angeles.
The State of California now holds title to the property and it is
officiany a part of the Pueblo de Los Angeles State Historical Monument.
A barricade has been erected at the sidewalk and the work of restoration has commenced. This building is only a small part of the entire
restoration program for the monument and it will take two to three years
to complete.
The other members of this Committee express appreciation to Matthew M. Codon, Past Master of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, a member
of the Committee from its inception, who has maintained contact with
the public officials assigned to the project. Brother Codon is working
with Orvel B. Johnson, Direct Construction Supervisor for the State,
and doing research to make the restoration as completely authentic as
possible.
The Committe has in its files a letter from Mr. Johnson relating to
various aspects of the authentic restoration. It is too lengthy to quote
in fun, but the following excerpt will be of interest:
"When the restoration work actually commences we will begin
a search for the cornerstone of this building. In this respect, we would
appreciate the cooperation of your Lodge (if the cornerstone is located)
in opening the cornerstone and retrieving the contents thereof."
Mr. Johnson is a member of the Craft.
Until the restoration of the building is completed and we commence
the furnishing of the Lodge room on the second floor as it was 100
years ago, the Committee does not anticipate any expense. We recommend the continuation of a Special Committee, and the authority, previously granted, for the Grand Master to make nominal expenditures, if
necessary.

168

Executive Director ......................................$ 3,600.00
Assistants .................................................... 3,000.00
480.00
Accountant ..................................................
500.00
Promotional Activities ................................
Janitors and Gardener.................................. 1,500.00
Heat, Light, Water and Power.................. I.300.00
Building Maintenance and Repairs............ 1,600.00
200.00
Annual Cleaning..........................................
Furniture ReplacemenL.............................. 1,500.00
Taxes:
Property Taxes .................................... 3,100.00
200.00
Payroll Taxes ......................................
450.00
Janitorial Supplies....................................... .
75.00
Garden Supplies ..................................•.......
150.00
Auditing ......................................................
870.00
Insurance ..................................................... .
250.00
Telephone ................ ,.................................. .
Office Supplies, Stationery, Printing, and
100.00
Periodicals ............................................
75.00
Garbage Disposal ....................................... .
150.00
Miscellaneous ..............................................
Depreciation ............................................... . 4,010.00
TOTAL BUDGET..............................................

$23,110.00

The undersigned members of the Board of Directors are mindful of
their responsibility to Masonry and deem it a privilege to have the
opportunity to serve in this worthy Masonic activity.
Respectfully submitted,
WALLACE E. YORK, President ( 1960)
GORDON F. BLACK, Vice President ( 1961)
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN, Secretary ( 1962)
HORSTMANN, Treasurer ( 1960)
RUSSELL
GENE C. OTWELL, Assistant Secretary ( 1962 )
BOREN ( 1962)
PA UL
CHARLES FRANCIS DALZIEL ( 1961 )
CARL B. MuNCK ( 1960)
JoHN L. W1xoN ( 1961 )

c.

s.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

Respectfuny submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
MATTHEW M. CoooN
JoEL. SHELL
GuYB. M1zE

At 11 :50 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

170

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

AFTE RNO ON SESS ION, Tuesd ay, September 29, 1959
r preAt 1 : 30 p.m., Grand Lodge was caJled on, the Grand Maste
ain.
Chapl
Grand
the
by
red
delive
was
tion
siding. The invoca
GRA ND ORA TION
"REA PPRA ISAL "
MERIA M, Grand Orato r
ORE
THEOD

Most Worsh ipful Sir and my Brethren in Freemasonry: .
tunity
It is indeed a rare and valued privilege to have had the oppor
this
during
s
officer
Lodge
Grand
of
to serve as a member of the corps
under
served
have
to
ge
privile
al
especi
an
as
past year, and I count it
, whose
our presen t Grand Maste r, the Most Worsh ipful Phil N. Myers
conwill
and
sincere and generous devotion to Freem asonry has been,
tinue to be, an inspiration for us all.
you
It is a rare privilege, too, to have the oppor tunity to share with
few
a
pose
to
for a little while some thoug hts about our Craft and
But
.
oming
forthc
y
questions, the answe rs to which will not be readil
of
part
ial
essent
an
is
ms,
aware ness of questions, and of proble
asked
be
should
ons
questi
this,
of
se
existence and development. Becau
and answe rs sought.
," and
I have chosen to entitle this presentation "REA PPRA ISAL
ness,
subtle
of
t
amoun
certain
a
I hope t~at, with the employment of
l
genera
the
along
hts
thoug
your
t
promp
what I say to you today will
raisal.
Reapp
ic
Mason
direction of
"inI am increasingly conce rned- and I here use the two words
-with
sense
erm
long-t
broad,
very
creasi ngly" and "conc erned" in a
consta ntly
the relative place and impor tance of Freem asonry in our
ity is
antiqu
Our
all.
by
ized
recogn
is
y
dignit
chang ing world. Our
saJly
univer
unquestioned. Our solidness of purpo se and principle is
as
we
Are
it?
is
Or
recognized. Our general reputa tion is excellent.
our
in
tant
impor
as
ely
relativ
an organization, or as individual Mason s,
be? Do
respective communities as we have alway s been, or as we should
in our
life
of
ment
better
the
to
uaUy,
individ
we contribute, coJlectively or
.
?
should
we
that
degree
the
communities to
of what
I do not raise these questions with any thoug ht of criticism
l sense
critica
purely
that
in
we have done or what we d~but rather
alysis.
of thoug htful self-an
of the
I have alway s been impressed with the opening parag raph
son,
Steven
D.
an
Jonath
comparatively brief message of Grand Maste r
ed
hundr
one
read
rnia,
Califo
of
first Grand Maste r of the Grand Lodge
Grand
this
of
ion
unicat
Comm
l
Annua
and nine years ago at the First
communicaLodge. The Grand Maste r could not be presen t at this first
the Grand
for
zation
organi
of
ntion
conve
the
after
tion, held just a month

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

171

Here is
Lodge of California, but his message was received and read.
what he said:
should
"The formation of a Grand Lodge for the State of Califo rnia
elseand
here
Mason
every
to
n
be a subject of sincere congra tulatio
ness
useful
its
has
globe
ble
habita
the
of
part
where; for probab ly in no
y
Alread
year.
past
the
within
y
countr
this
in
as
st
been made so manife
nation
every
of
s
does California number among its inhabi tants person
rise and
and clime known to the civilized world, aJI seeking, by enterp
uently
infreq
not
it
and
life;
in
indust ry, to improve their condition
mining
a
of
yards
ed
hundr
few
a
of
ce
happe ns that within the distan
er who are
district, there will be found many person s labori ng togeth
ers of
memb
strang ers in language. heart and in feelings: but if they be
under
can
all
that
ge
our ancient Order , each is the maste r of a langua
afal
fratern
of
feeling
deep
stand, and there at once spring s up that
uished the
fection which has ever so distinctly marked and disting
a member
as
for,
;
others
all
above
nity
Frater
members of the Mason ic
o one can
ren-n
breth
his
among
er
strang
a
be
can
one
of this Order , no
and
wants
his
to
be in sickness or affliction withou t some one ministering
and
ship
fellow
holy
contributing to his comfo rts-an d nowhe re is this
land
this
in
than
ition
requis
brothe rly love more frequently called into
his fellow
of gold and promise: for nowhe re is man more depen dent upon
so often
and
rnia;
Califo
in
than
life
of
rts
comfo
man for all the necessary
and felt
sed
witnes
been
Order
ic
Mason
the
of
ce
has the benign influen
hours
dreary
the
in various parts of this country, as weJI in health as in
have
ces
influen
these
sed
of sickness and death, that all who have witnes
coma
in
tion
Institu
the
of
ts
learne d proper ly to apprec iate the benefi
affection is
munit y like our~. The cultivation of brothe rly love and
the lodges
among
aJly
especi
and
all,
to
d
mende
theref ore earnes tly recom
s or
Mason
among
either
exist,
ever
should
strife
No
of this jurisdiction.
best
can
who
Lodges, except that honor able strife or emulation of
t, honor
promo te the happiness of his fellow man, and the true interes
and dignity of our ancien t Craft. "
read an
Here in this brief message of over a centur y ago I think we
ry to
Mason
of
expression of relative value, of the relative importance
ularly
partic
me
Let
ce.
life itself in a young, raw, exciting kind of existen
Steven son:
call your attenti on again to these words of Grand Maste r
been witOrder
ic
Mason
the
of
ce
influen
" ... so often has the benign
ces have
influen
those
sed
witnes
have
who
all
nessed and felt-t hat
a comin
tion
Institu
the
of
ts
benefi
the
iate
apprec
to
ly
learne d proper
simple
a
was
This
munit y like ours." This was no egoistic statement.
Caliin
life
of
nts
accou
tic
statem ent of fact. Many of the most authen
nence
promi
the
of
n
mentio
strong
fornia in the early gold rush days make
and importance of Maso nry in that life.
unity
There is no doubt of the community stature , of the comm
basic
of
part
the
on
service, of the influence for good and for better ment

173

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Freemasonry in those early California days. We are still a young California, and in a sense. perhaps, living in a raw, exciting kind of existence.
Certainly. at the increasingly rapid pace of change in our state, in much
less than a century from now our successors will look back upon our
days as days of pioneering excitement also.
But again there is my question-are we relatively as influential as
we have been or should be?
Recently a friend of mine, a brother of my Lodge, loaned me a
book which had been sent to him by one of his relatives, a Mason in a
small community in Texas. The book, cloth-bound and over three
hundred pages in length, is titled "A Century of Light." It is the detailed
history of Brahan Lodge No. 226 of La Vernia, Texas. In 1858, the
Grand Lodge of Texas granted dispensations to thirteen lodges to work.
One of them was Brahan Lodge. I recently read this entire book, even
though I have never sat in Brahan Lodge. have never been in La Vernia,
Texas. and know absolutely nobody who is a member of that Lodge. I
found the book fascinating. because here was the story of a small community and of a small Lodge ( Brahan Lodge had 107 members at the
time the book was published this year). Here was a Lodge that seemed
to me to be an indispensable part of the community which it served. In
1871, after a number of years of money-raising effort, this Lodge completed its first Lodge hall. And let me quote from their history here-"Brahan Lodge has always given attention to the educational needs of
the community. Knowledge that the lower floor of the Lodge hall would
be used for a school was responsible for some of the contributions and
for much of the free work on it. When the building was erected it was
meant for the lower floor to be used as a school and a place of public
worship. It has been used for some purpose of the school almost every
year since it was completed." Here is real community service and influence for good and betterment. Throughout this book one is impressed
with how Brahan Lodge has been inextricably bound up in the affairs
of La Vernia in Wilson County, Texas, actually beginning before the
organization of the county. The author, in compiling this documentary
account of the growth and development of a moral and progressive force
in La Vernia, has shown conclusively how Freemasonry has contributed
in one community to that community's society.
Brahan Lodge is but an example of hundreds and hundreds of
essentially similar Lodges in our country. Their history is fascinating
too, and their position of influence and importance in their respective
communities has had profound effect also.
We can always take pride in the accomplishments of our predecessors, but this is of no real value unless we are able to apply the lesson
of their experience to the problems of today and the future. The true
worth of all history is in the fact of its explanation of how we got to

where we are--and the wise practitioner is the one who can use these
explanations to aid in plotting the course for the future. Generally.
history demonstrates that goals are attained by struggle and that when
one goal has been attained there is still a further goal that must be
reached. Satisfaction is never present.
A story is told of a famous artist who painted a great picture. It was
the finest work he had ever done, but one day he was found weeping
beside his masterpiece.
"What is the trouble?" he was asked. "aren't you satisfied with your
picture?"
"Yes," he replied, "that's just what the trouble is: I am satisfied."
He knew that being satisfied, he would never do better work; his
ambition would wane; he would begin to slip, and the future would no
longer be a period of increasing greatness as an artist. It meant that the
stimulus for improvement had gone and the joy of doing work would
be no more. The climb up the hill. the effort to do, the struggle to accomplish. is what brings to us our greatest and most enduring satisfaction, without which life is worth little.
So it is with Freemasonry. The greatest and most worthwhile
satisfaction is for those who concern themselves with how best to strive
for the goal. It would be most presumptuous on my part if I were to
say. "here is an answer; here is a way." Rather it is the collective
thought and the collective work of all of us. and especially of you who
are the leaders in your respective lodges. which. when applied with the
basic tools of Masonry, can bring us steadily along the road, no matter
how rough and r)lgged it may be.
I can suggest, though. an area for our thoughtful consideration. Integrity is the very core of Freemasonry. An example of integrity. worthy
of all ~mit~tion, provides one of the most essential lessons in Masonry.
Integrity is moral soundness, honesty, uprightness. In a broad sense,
too, it is steadfastness to the right course no matter what influence there
may be to vary the course. Our quality, our value, our reputation, are all
the result of our integrity in this broad sense. This is an area which
today. and other days too, might stand some reappraisal. Are our
Masonic teachings. based on integrity and moral truths. applied as rigidly and as fully as they have always been? Or is there an occasional
tendency to rationalize just a little bit here and there? Have we slacked
off? Have we rationalized by saying," we should be broadminded about
that?" Is there as occasional tendency to permit other, softer sets of
values to have "just a little" share in influencing our decisions and
actions? It is not my intention by raislnig these questions to imply any
softening or slacking off. But these are pertinent questions, and I hope
they are provocative also. They are intended as such and if, because of
such questions and because of similar ones which will undoubtedly occur

172

174

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

to you, there is some reappraisal of our integrity then it is good that
the questions have been raised. We must never be satisfied with the
way we are.
Just two years ago this Grand Lodge confirmed the edict of Grand
Master L. Harold Anderson which effectively banned certain activities
engaged in by affiliated organizations which were clearly commercial
in their purpose and thus tended to depreciate the integrity of Masonry
in California. This was an historic and courageous decision. I am
confident it was the result of self-analysis, of reappraisal. of determination that what had been happening was wrong and not in keeping with
our purposes, our dignity, or our integrity. Softer sets of values were
cast aside. This was altogether proper and I use it here as an example
of what I have been talkin9 about-reappraisal of integrity. The wise
man is the one who can apply with clear-headed directness the facts of
moral truth to the situations presented in an ever-changing world.
The Oregon state capitol building is one of the newer such structures in America and certainly one of the most beautiful. Flanking the
main entrance are two inscribed panels. On one of them is this
meaningful statement:
"The mind of man knows no employment more worthy
of its powers than the quest for righteousness in
human affairs; no goal of its labors that is superior
to the discovery of the good in the guidance of life."
Now let us interpolate this slightly with the change of about three
words and read it thusly:
"The mind of Freemasonry knows no employment
more worthy of its powers than the furtherance of
righteousness in human affairs; no goal of its labors
this is superior to the application of good in the
guidance of life."
No thinking Mason will quarrel with the rightness of that statement, but will a thinking Mason today conclude that we are employing
our powers to the fullest for the attainment of this righteous but never
completely reachable goal? I think not. Rather the thinking Mason will
quickly say, "we can always strive to do better; we should strive to do
better; we must strive to do better."
Approximately ten years ago Tehama Lodge No. 3 in Sacramento
celebrated its centennial. The feature of that observance was a graphic
and dramatic portrayal of the influence of that lodge spread over a
century in the community which it serves. Some of you have been

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

175

privileged to see this portrayal. for it has been produced several times
since the first presentation. It is worth telling about again.
On a simply set stage were two standing panels, each about four
feet wide and eight feet tall. On one was mounted a large electric
clock, in motion. On the other panel hung a one-gallon glass jug. inverted, and filled with blue ink. A special stopper permitted this blue
ink to drop from the bottle at the rate of a small drop each second.
Directly below the jug there was a large glass vessel which held perhaps
fifteen gallons of clear water. Between the two panels stood a brother
of Tehama Lodge who. as narrator, described the beginning years of
the Lodge and told of the deeds of some of the more prominent of its
members. As he spoke, the sweep hand of the clock moved steadily
around, and from the inverted jug there dropped each second a drop
of blue ink. As the narrator continued to recount the deeds of the
members of Tehama Lodge. the vessel of clear water began to turn
blue; first scarcely noticeably. but gradually and steadily becoming
bluer and bluer.
The illustration was simple, but altogether complete and clear. With
the passage of time, and the steady occurrence of deeds of influence for
good. the quality of living in Sacramento became better and better, ever
better. So it has been, and is, in every community where Freemasonry
influences the deeds of its members.
But what if we reversed this illustration? What if we considered the
darkening of the color of the vessel of clear water to have been caused
by deeds of which we were not proud: deeds which took place because
we did not hold as closely to the integrity of Masonry as we could have
--could we then say that the waters became darker and darker until no
light would shine through? Yes, the illustration could be reversed, but it
will never be reversed as long as we are willing to be self-critical. to
reappraise ourselves, to sincerely and wholeheartedly apply Masonic
teaching to our daily lives. to ever strive for betterment.
We have in Masonry incalculably valuable tools with which to
build for continual betterment. They are the great moral truths which
are inculcated within our Lodge. They are ageless and changeless. They
are fundamental truths not subject to experimental challenge. Applied
diligently in all our activities they can be a most powerful force in the
guidance of life for the betterment of all.
Today in this world are two powerful forces opposing each otherour way of life and the totalitarian system. Ours is based on the dignity
of man. The other is not. Masonry is compatible with only one---our
way of life. because Masonry too, is based on the dignity of man. Perhaps at no period in our country's history has there been a greater need
for our system of government, and of society. to work well. We must
demonstrate to the world that American democracy is the best system.
But to do this we must be certain that in every community in our land,

176

177

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

our gian t, spraw1ing metropo1itan
f~~m the tiniest cr~ssroad ham1ets to
es and responsibi1ities app1y. Dem occities, the sam e basic righ ts, privi1eg
racy mus t wor k first righ t at home.
ern here. It is our duty t
We a~ Mas ons have a trem endo us concsincere use of the Mas on
Wit h
be respons1b1e p~rticipating citizens.
cont ribu te to the we1fare of aH ry
to
fail
ot
cann
we
t
ngh
be
;;e kno w to
be in prop ortio n to our own zea1
ut our de~ree. of success wi11 sure1y to the task at hand .
s
and determination as we app1y ourse1ve
mor e so, in the app1ication
We ~ust ~e .re1ative1y as effective, or ers in the time of Gra nd
fath
fore
~ MasoSmc prmc1p1es as wer e ourMas onry aU of the time. We must
aste r tevenson. We must use
must maintain our inte grity W
app ly Mas onry all of the time. We
~
Jessen our stan dard s W ~
must prompt1y reject any tend ency to
s
d~us
be cert ain that the. little
c~~stantly strive to do better. We must continue to drop in an ev!
ent
erm
.ence for good and for bett
? mflu
increasing tempo.
ays a time for rea raisa] beIt is a time for reappraisa1. It is alwof
b•
PP
the futu re · Th ere
can e no
con stan tly on the thre shol d
caus e we are
must
re
Th
The
ff
es.
] k'
ere can be no modi.ftcation of basic valu
~a~ mg ? ·
f
·
and
ure
stat
in
and
in avo r
·
~ mte gnty . We must grow "in wisdom ·
with G od an d man. .. W.ith honest, sincere reap prai sal- and the time is
re
alw ays face the chal1enges of the futu
a]~:ys p;~sent for this -we canusia
we
that
on
izati
real
the
with
and
sm,
con ence and with enth
Wt
the wor ld with which to b u1·id an
as M~sons possess the finest tools in
_end urin g future.
ding ovation.
The orat ion was received with a stan
Gra nd Mas ter, the Gra nd Secr On motion of .Joe L. SheU, Dep uty prin ted and dist ribu ted to the
ion
etar y was auth oriz ed to hav e the orat
Lod ges.

°

RE PO RT OF CO MM ITT EE ON BY

-LAWS

. &A . M. of California:
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod geF
had und er consideration 213
You r Committee on By- Law s has
by-Jaws and meeting p1aces of
ame ndm ents and resolutions affecting
Lodges.
and two decr ease d thei r fees.
Twe nty- six Lodges incr ease d their fees
00. One Lod ge fixed its
$10.
to
One Lod ge increased its affi1iation fee
decr ease d its affl1iation to $5.00.
affiliation fee at $25.00. One Lodge
. For ty-e ight Lodges increased
Two Lodges resc inde d affiliation fees
eased thei r due s to $16.00; two
thei r due s to $15.00; nine Lodges incr
00; thir ty-t hree Lodges increased
Lodges increased thei r due s to $17.
eased thei r dues to $20.00; and
thei r due s to $18.00; seven Lodges incr
00. One Lod ge decr ease d its due s
one Lod ge increased its due s to $25.
ame ndm ents chan ging the date
to $15.00. Twe nty- eigh t Lodges ado pted
ame ndm ents chan ging the time
of Stat ed Mee ting s. Six Lod ges ado pted an ame ndm ent fixing the time
pted
of Stat ed Mee ting s. One Lod ge ado
pted ame ndm ents with provisions
ado
ges
Lod
Five
.
ting
,Mee
ed
Stat
dts
of
Mee ting faUs on a legal ho1iday.
for time of meeting whe n the Stat ed
code of by-Jaws, and thre e Lod ges
Eleven Lod ges ado pted the uniform
thei r char ity program. Twe ntyame nde d thei r by-Jaws to conform with
ge thei r plac e of meeting.
five Lodges ado pted resolutions to chan
mittee that duri ng the past
It has come to the atte ntio n of the Com
aws had to be retu rned
by-J
the
to
yea r a larg e number of ame ndm ents
orm to the proc edu re set forth as
to the Lodge beca use they did not conf
e. Aga in we would 1ike to emp haoutl ined in the Californda Mas onic Cod
the Cod e and recommend that a11
size the imp orta nce Of conforming to
with the Sec reta ry at the beginincoming Mas ters review the by-Jaws
ssar y ame ndm ents be carefuHy
ning of thei r term, and that aH nece
e, ado ptio n and date to take effect.
checked together, as to notice therefor
resolutions have been app rove d
AH of the fo11owing ame ndm ents and
nd Mas ter as to form and Cod e
by the Gra nd Sec reta ry and the Gra
requ irem ents :
AME NDM ENT S TO BY-L AWS

$75.00; Was hing ton No. 20,
Increasing fees: Cor inth ian No. 9, to
.00; Nat oma No. 64, to $100.00;
to $125.00; Sacr ame nto No. 40. to $100 Dav ids No. 209, to $100.00;
Wil min gton No. 198, to $125.00; King
No. 274, to $65.00; Ho11enbeck
Pom ona No. 246, to $115.00; Arro yo
to $115.00; Gol den Stat e No. 358,
No. 319. to $100.00; Cov ina No. 334.
.00; Fi11more No. 379, to $100.00;
to $125.00; Gar den a No. 372, to $125
and No. 419, to $75.00; Chin o
El Cen tro No. 384, to $125.00; Upl
471, to $100.00; Sun nyv ale No.
Va11ey No. 427, to $65.00; Del ta No.
to $100.00; Plym outh No. 560,
511. to $115.00; Que en Beach No. 540,
to $100.00; Fon tana No. 653, to
to $90.00; Tem ple City No. 612,
$100.00; Cro ssro ads No. 696, to
$125.00; San Clem ente No. 671, to

178

179

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

$115.00: San Dieguito No. 775, to $90.00: Leland Stanford No. 784, to
$100.00.
Decreasing fees: Arcata No. 106, to $75.00: Unity No. 368, to
.
$100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Sunnyvale No. 511, to $10.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Sierra No. 788, at $25.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Tujunga No. 592, to $5.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Pomona No. 246: Montebello No. 451.
Increasing dues: Corinthian No. 9, to $18.00: Golden Gate No. 30,
to $15.00: Natoma No. 64, to $15.00: Lexington No. 104, to $16.00:
Sincerity No. 132, to $18.00: Molino No. 150, to $15.00: Phoenix No.
178, to $16.00: Northern Light No. 190, to $15.00: Truckee No. 200,
to $20.00: K!ing Davids No. 209, to $15.00: South San Francisco No.
212, to $15.00: San Buenaventura No. 214, to $18.00; Doric No. 216, to
$18.00: Monterey No. 217, to $20.00; Mosaic No. 218, to $18.00:
Pomona No. 246, to $20.00: Welcome No. 255, to $18.00: Evergreen
No. 259, to $18.00: Arroyo No. 274, to $15.00: Hanford No. 279, to
$18.00: Paso Robles No. 286, to $15.00: Dunsmuir No. 297, to $15.00:
South Gate No. 320, to $18.00: Whittier No. 323, to $16.00: Covina No.
334, to $15.00: Fruitvale No. 336, to $18.00: Golden State No. 358, to
$18.00: San Francisco No. 360, to $18.00; West Los Angeles No. 373,
to $17.00: Artesia No. 377, to $15.00: El Centro No. 384, to $18.00;
Coalinga No. 387, to $15.00; East Belt No. 391, to 15.00; Arlington
No. 414, to $18.00: Clovis No. 417, to $15.00; Upland No. 419, to
to $15.00: Chino Valley No. 427, to $16.00: Alpha No. 431, to $15.00;
Montebello No. 451. to $16.00: Morgan Hill No. 463, to $15.00: Maui
No. 472, to $16.00; Clarence F. Smith No. 482, to $20.00: Caledonia
No. 486, to $18.00: Patterson No. 488, to $18.00: Garvanza No. 492,
to $15.00: Point No. 503, to $15.00: Joppa No. 508, to $15.00: Cupertino No. 510, to $15.00: Sunnyvale No. 511, to $18.00; La Jolla No. 518,
to $15.00; Bellflower No. 523, to $15.00; Beverly Hdlls No. 528, to
$15.00; Alexandria No. 531. to $18.00; Forest Hill No. 534, to $18.00;
Alexander Hamilton No. 535, to $20.00; Seal Rock No. 536, to $18.00;
Utopia No. 537, to $16.00; Queen Beach No. 540, to $15.00; Semper
Virens No. 552, to $18.00; Military Service No. 570, to $18.00; S. W.
Hackett No. 574, to $15.00: El Cajon Valley No. 576, to $15.00;
Sunnyside No. 577, to $15.00; Progressive No. 578, to $15.00: Security
No. 581, to $18.00; Wasco No. 583. to $18.00; Tujunga No. 592, to
$15.00: Service No. 594, to $16.00; Pearl Harbor No. 598. to $15.00;
Lynwood No. 600, to $18.00; Temple City No. 612, to $15.00; Big Bear
Lake No. 617, to $20.00: Neptune No. 619, to $16.00; Fortitude No.
624, to $18.00; Poinsettia No. 633, to $18.00; Composite No. 639, to
$15.00; James A. Foshay No. 641. to $15.00; Florence No. 649, to
$18.00; La Brea No. 650, to $18.00; Crescenta Valley No. 652, to
$25.00; Fontana No. 653, to $15.00; La Habra No. 659, to $15.00:

Kaweah No. 665, to $15.00; Modesto No. 675, to $15.00; Dos Palos
No. 681, to $18.00: Trona No. 684, to $15.00; Indian Wells Valley No.
691. to $17.00: Crossroads No. 696, to $15.00; Lorenzo No. 709, to
$15.00: Wayfarer No. 717, to $15.00; Arvin No. 738, to $20.00; Morningside Park No. 742, to $15.00; Mother Colony No. 750, to $15.00:
San Pablo No. 754, to $15.00; Golden Bowl No. 755, to $15.00: Lakeside No. 760, to $15.00; Lake Chabot No. 770, to $18.00; San Diequito
No. 75, to $15.00; Leland Stanford No. 784, to $18.00: Sierra No. 788,
to $18.00.
Decreasing dues: Pomona No. 246, to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Santa Rosa No. 57: Yosemite
No. 99; Table Mountain No. 124: Silver Gate No. 296: Santa Monica
No. 307: Redondo No. 328: San Bernardino No. 348: Hollywood No.
355; West Los Angeles No. 373: Fillmore No. 379: York No. 423:
Argonaut No. 461; Clarence F. Smith No. 482: Seaside No. 504; Sunnyvale No. 511; Palms No. 512: Sunrise No. 522: Utopia No. 537;
James A. Garfield No. 5,66: Alexander Graham Bell No. 595: Point
Loma No. 620: Metropolitan No. 646: Damascus No. 648: Dos Palos
No. 681; Crosroads No. 696: Anacapa No. 710: Tyre No. 741; Merced
No. 749: Southern California Research.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Stanislaus No. 206: Fruitvale
No. 336: Unity No. 368: Coalinga No. 387; Culver City No. 467:
Highland No. 748.
Fixing Time of Stated Meeting: Carpinteria No. H4.
Provision for legal holidays: Woodland No. 156: Wilmington No.
198: Stanislaus Nb. 206: Chino Valley No. 427; Belvedere No. 539.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Wilmington No. 198, Lompoc
No. 262: Southern California No. 278: Orange Grove No. 293; Presidio
No. 354: Millbrae U.D.: Maya U.D.: Mt. Wilson U.D: American
River U.D.: Golden Valley U.D.: Tila Pass U.D.
Re Charity Committee: Fidelity No. 120: Wilmington No. 198:
Canoga No. 611.
RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: Corinthian No. 9: Phoenix No. 178;
San Bernardino No. 348: Arlington No. 414; Elysian No. 418: York
No. 423: Mount Oso No. 460; 9rgonaut No. 461: Clarence F. Smith No.
482: Cupertino No. 510; Sunnyvale No. 511: Vermont Square No. 515;
Searchlight No. 567; Progressive No. 578: Alexander Graham Bell No.
595; Riverside No. 635: Metropolitan No. 646; Damascus No. 648:
Kaweah No. 665; Anacapa No. 710; Rim of the World No. 711: George
E. Tutt No. 722: Oasis of Mara No. 735; Morn~ngside Park No. 742;
EI Rancho No. 759.

180

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

We approve and recommend the adoption of this report.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT c. PEYTON
JESS SCOTT
COLTON B. DAVENEY
EA.RL B. SANSING
BASIL R. GILLETT
c. E. GWIN
VIRGIL R. SHOEMAKER
Adopted.

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE
ON DE MOLAY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on De Malay is pleased to submit the following report for your approval. At the present time, well over one hundred constituent lodges are actively sponsoring De Malay Chapters in the
State of California. A partial list of those lodges sponsoring chapters
in Southern and Western California is attached to this report. The
details of De Malay sponsorship in Central California had not been
received at the time this report was prepared.
Your Committee has noted a very marked improvement in the effectiveness of the De Malay movement in California during the past year.
De Malay leaders unhesitatingly credit the active interest and sponsorship of Masonic Lodges for this gratifying situation. There has
been a re-emphasis of the fundamental principles of De Malay which
are so Masonic in character.
There have been no reports during the past year of any actions
by De Malay Chapters which were contrary to the policies of the
Grand Lodge. Instead, there has been a complete and unequivocal
acceptance of those principles. Prior to the adoption by this Grand
Lodge of the present policy permitting lodges to sponsor De Malay
Chapters, compliance with our policies was oftentimes grudgingly given.
Support of the Order of De Malay gained ~mpetus during the past
year when the Grand Lodges of Pennsylvania and Wisconsin gave
their constituent lodges unlimited authority to sponsor De Malay Chapters. The list of Grand Jurisdictions encouraging and sponsoring the
De Malay movement has indeed become impressive.
Your Committee has accepted every invitation to meet with Masonic
and De Malay groups. We wish to emphasize particularly the observation that there is a growing interest in information concerning the
De Malay movement. We have received a great deal of cooperation
from various qualified De Malay personnel to whom inquiries were
referred. Of particular note were visitations to the California State
DeMolay Association Convention in San Jose, the Southern California

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

181

De Malay Association Convention in Long Beach, official De Malay
Activities at the California State and Los Angeles County Fairs, and
various regional meetings throughout the State. Every Master Mason
should be pleased with the manner in which these affairs were conducted. They truly reflected credit not only on De Malay, but on our
Order as well.
The Annual De Malay Week observance held by the San Diego
County Masonic Officers Association has grown to be one of the most
outstanding and best-attended functions of the Masonic Year in that
area. The many benefits derived from this annual event prompt this
Committee to recommend to future Grand Masters that they declare
a De Malay Week throughout this Grand Jurisdiction. Constituent
lodges could be requested to have a program during that week centered
around the local De Malay Chapter, or a speaker could be obtained
who could give an informative talk on De Malay.
It is our sincere recommendation that this Committee be continued,
and that the sum of $750 be appropriated to cover its necessary expenses.
This Committee wishes to express its appreciation to our Most Worshipful Grand Master Phil N. Myers for the privilege of serving this
Grand Lodge. His wisdom and encouragement have been a source of
strength and inspiration to us.
fo closing, we would like to leave this thought with you. "The
hopes of the world and our fraternity are in the youth of today. Your
help is urgently needed to assure the realization of those hopes."
Fraternally submitted,
Ho MER E. RA TH BUN
CLARE R. NELSON
LESTER G. BRUNO
RoY H. GERARD
CARL 0. OLSEN
GEORGE D. GAVIN
WILLIAM c. GOVER
HAROLD s. MEDO
FRANK w. TENNEY
WILLIAM W. DEWGAW
NOEL w. ROSER
Referred to Committee on Finance.
PARTIAL LIST OF LODGES AND DE MOLAY CHAPTERS
THAT THEY SPONSOR
Chapter
Lodge
Martinez No. 41 ............................................................................Jdlfn Muir
Suisun No. 55....................................................................................Armijo
Lexington No. 104........................................................................Lexington
Sotoyme No. 123........................................................................ Healdsburg

182

183

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Vacaville No. 13-t.................................- ..··-·································Vacaville
Alameda No. 167....................................................Washington Township
Redwood City No. 168..................................................................Redwood
Antioch No. 175................................................................................Antioch
Hartley No. 199..............................................................................Lakeport
Salinas No. 204..................................................................................Salinas
Anaheim No. 207............................................................................Anaheim
Mosaic No. 218 ..................................................................Amador Valley
Downey No. 220..............................................................................Downey
Anchor No. 273................................:.............................................Compton
Southwest No. 283..................................................................National City
Los Gatos No. 292........................................................................ Los Gatos
Orange 1Grove No. 293....................................................................0range
Liberty No. 299..........................................................................Santa Clara
Santa Lucia No. 302••.... ~---··············--··-------·--·······--····················---K'ing City
Azusa No. 305............................................................................Paul Revere
Ashlar No. 306....................................................................................Colton
Monrovia No. 308.......................................................................... Monrovia
Fallbrook No. 317..........................................................................Fallbrook
Whittier No. 323............................................................................Whittier
Consuelo No. 325.............................................:..................................Ag~
Pinole No. 353....................................................................................Pinole
Charity No. 362..............................................................................Campbell
Willits No. 365..............................................................................._ Willits
Francis Drake No. 376................................................South San Francisco
Huntington Beach No. 380..........................................•.Huntington Beach
Highland Park No. 382 .................................................... ~... Highland Park
La Mesa No. 407..............................................................................La Mesa
Elysian No. 418......................................................Alexander G. Cochran
Claremont No. 436......................................................................Claremont
Montebello No. 451 .................................................................... Montebello
Rockridge No. 468........................................................................Roc:kridge
Yorba Linda No. 469................................................................Yorba Linda
Bell No. 483..............................................................................................Bell
Fremont No. 497............................................................................Fruitvale
La Jolla No. 518...................................................................- ...........La Jolla
San Gabriel No. 546.......................................................·...........San Gabriel
Arcadia No. 547................................................................................Arcadia
Fairfax No. 556........................................................................Ross Valley
Plymouth No. 560........................................................................Rockridge
East San Diego No. 561 ......................................................East San Diego
Park Boulevard No. 568..................................................................Charney
El Cajon Valley No. 576....................................................Bl Cajon Valley
Rialto No. 582......~......................:......................................................Colton
Garden Grove No. 586..........................................................Garden Grove
Tujunga No. 592..................................................................A. F. Hopkins

Guardian No. 596........................................~ .................................Guardian
Sojourner No. 607...................... ~.......................................................Duarte
Granada No. 608..........................................................................Alhambra
Temple City No. 612 ..................................................:..•..........Temple City
Hemet No. 615............................................................................Centennial
Point Loma No. 620....................................................................Pofnt Loma
Atwater No. 622..............................................................................Atwater
Victorville No. 634..............................................................Kefth Lee Seals
Menlo Park No. 651 ..................................................................Menlo Park
Crescenta Valley No. 652 ................................................Crescenta Valley
Fontana No. 653..............................................................................Fontana
Jordan No. 654....................................................................................Jordan
La Habra No. 659..........................................................................La Habra
Altadena No. 678............................................................................Altadena
Redwood Empire No. 683 ................................................ Redwood Empire
San· Marino No. 685..................................................................San Marino
Albany No. 686..............................................................Bl Cerrito-Albany
Vista No. 687..................................................................................Paloaiar
San Carlos No. 690....................................................................San Carlos
Westchester No. 703................................................................Westchester
El Cerrito No. 705..........................................................Bl Cerrito~Albany
Seafaring No. 708 .................................................................. 0range Coast
Lorenzo No. 709........................................................................San Lorenzo
Castro Valley No. 713..........................................................Castro Valley
San Ramon Valley No. 724 ......................................... .San Ramon Valley
Yucaipa No. 726..............................................................................Yucaipa
Lemon Grove No. 736............................................................Lemon Grove
La Canada No. 739.................................................. La Canada~Flintridge
Tyre No. 741 ....................................................................................Warren
Hamilton No. 751 ..............................................................................Novato
San Pablo No. 754........................................................................San Pablo
West Covina No. 758•..........................•..................................West Covina
Palmdale No. 769..........................................................................Palmdale
Mission Bay No. 771 ..................................................................Clairemont
San Dieguito No. 775 ..............................................................San Dieguito
La Mirada No. 778 ......................................................................La Mirada

185

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE

As of June 30, 1959, there were 34,0H regular subscribes at $1.00
per year. The expense of sending renewal notices and in obtaining
new subscriptions is very large as will be seen on the financial report
herewith. This would be eliminated if the magazine were sent to the
entire membership. The unit printing cost for the last issue was $.0765
per copy. This would be reduced if 240,000 copies were printed. The
cost for members would probably not exceed 35c each per year if the
present format was retained.
In order to pass on to individual subscribers some of the saving
on renewal costs, the Grand Master set the subscription price for two
years at $1.75; three years at $2.50; four years at $3.25; and five years
at $4.00.
This is our financial report for the year ending June 30, 1959.
It does not tie in exactly with the report from last year because the
Finance Committee has now set up a reserve for unexpired subscriptions and we have changed our statement to conform with this arrangement.

184

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This marks the end of the sixth year that the principal duty of your
Committee has been the publication of California Freemason. It has
also continued its traditional function and has reviewed the proceedings of our sister jurisdictions throughout the world. Short summaries
of many of these reviews are printed .in the quarterly California Freemason.
There has been a gradual evolution of format from volume l, number 1. The present 48 page, 6 by 9 inch lithographed magazine has
been well received and it is intended to continue with this style for the
next year.
Our editorial policy has continued to feature popular articles relating to Freemasonry and material intended to keep the Craft informed
as to the activities of Grand Lodge. We do not have sufficient space
to attempt to carry the news of all the subordinate lodges but we do
print stories of local activities which have more than a local interest.
The Committee was, of course, disappointed that, at the Communication last year, Grand Lodge did not see fit to send the magaZiine to
the entire membership. The labors of the Editor and Committee have
been undertaken to show Grand Lodge that an interesting and informative quarterly can be produced. It should reach the hands of every
member. We are losing the opportunity of spreading Masonic information and inspiration, an opportunity that other organizations, both
fraternal and civic, do not overlook.
Many lodges are aware of this opportunity and send the magazines
to their members under the arrangement that if a lodge adopts a
resolution so to do, each member will be mailed the quarterly and, in
January of each year, Grand Lodge bills the lodge at the rate of 60c
for the number of members shown on its last annual return. Changes
of memberships during the year do not affect this charge.
The lodges now operating under this group plans are 5, 10, 12, 25,
27, 33, 44, 55, 57, 60, 65, 68, 79, 80, 101, 123, 124, 131, 164, 169, 180,
195, 196, 201, 203, 205, 208, 211, 217, 218, 220, 228, 231, 233, 236,
240, 254, 255, 256, 259, 262, 266, 271, 273, 277, 280, 285, 289,
295, 300, 303, 306, 309, 314, 317, 318, 320, 321, 329, 333, 334, 338,
339, 402, 409, 421, 425, 428, 436, 437, 438, 453, 457, 458, 459,
465, 472, 473, 491, 493, 504, 511, 519, 524, 531, 538, 546, 555, 573,
580, 582, 583, 586, 587, 589, 590, 596, 598, 608, 611, 617, 622,
628, 635, 636, 637, 644, 645, 647, 656, 658, 666, 668, 671, 677, 680,
687, 689, 692, 693, 694, 702, 707, 710, 714, 717, 719, 720, 722,
731, 732, 735, 739, 742, 746, 751, 758, 765, 766, 767, 769, 770, 771,
772, 776, 777, 778, 779, 780, 782, 783, 791.
These 152 lodges have a total membership of 45,461.

EXPENDITURES
Cost of obtaining subscriptions:
Printing ----------------------------------------------------------$ 4,053.79
Postage ----------·------·-·--·······----··-··-······----·-······- 3,972.25
Clerical -----------------··--·--····-·····-----··------·-----·-··- 8, 132.00
Cost of address plates.................................... 4,952.60
$21,110.84
Cost of producing magazines:
Editorial expense -----·--·--···--·-----------------·-------$ 957.40
Pictures and artwork.. ................................... 1,357.54
Printing ----------·---·····-···--·······--·········--···········-· 33,497.45
$35,812.39 .
Cost of distribution:
Mailing expense. ...... ------·--·-···--------------·-·------$ 2, 118.41
Postage -------·------------····--------··--·--·---·--··------··-- 1,601.78
$ 3,720.19
$60,643.42
Sources of payment:
Collected on individual subscriptions ............ $36,081.17
Collected by lodges........................................ 28,019.80
$64,100.97
This leaves an average of $3,457.55 which, when added to the
appropriation for the years, make a sum of $5,457.55 to be placed

186 .

187

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in the reserve for unexpired subscriptions. Already in the reserve
from last year is $9,226.42. The reserve will now be $14,683.97.
Your Committe thanks the members of Grand Lodge for the numerous expressions of praise, commendation and appreciation for the
California Freemason. We will continue to do our best to give you
a creditable publication. In all candor, however, we will know that
our efforts are appreciated when the few cents per member, per year,
is expanded to send the magazine to our entire membership.
We ask no special action this year but request the continuation
of the nominal appropriation of $2,000, which should continue until
the reserve for unexpired subscriptions equals the overages of previous
years which disappeared into the general funds of Grand Lodge.

to the Lodges, as is the object of all of the service committees of the
Grand Lodge and when the Lodges respond favorably to such guidance and your efforts turn into success, we then are rewarded and our
wages have been paid.
As items of interest and in spreading ideas it is in keeping to mention several of what we consider our most outstanding celebrations.
These may be considered as patterns of what we have tried to accomplish and are presented here for their ingenuity and originality. There
were many others of course, some with even more impressive attendance but these each contained something unusual which could be well
imitated throughout the jurisdiction:
The city-wide celebration at Merced, culminated on September 23,
sponsored by both Yosemite Lodge No. 99 and Merced Lodge No.
749. Chairmen for the two lodges were Bros. George Wolf and Sam
Daniels. Almost every segment of the community was brought in, including the public schools. Their meeting drew 500 persons. What is
more important the people of Merced were well aware of Constitution
Observance through support from the press, civic organizations, radio
stations, the public schools, the local library, contributions of booklets
containing the Constitution from an insurance company, special notices
to members, etc. This is not unusual for Merced, for each year they
have entered into this Observance with boundless interest, energy and
enthusiasm.
The city-wide celebration at Napa, inspired by Yount No. 12 and
Silverado No. 782, drew about 300 persons and was sponsored by 21
civic and religious groups-far and away the most successful celebration of its kind held in Napa. They heartily recommend that "this type
of group sponsorship be adopted throughout the State."
The celebration of Lakeshore Lodge No. 551, !in Oakland, which
featured a "speech drama depicting possible consequences of public
fear and apathy; accent on necessary unity under our Constitution.''
The cast was composed of officers and members of the Lodge. A smorgasbord preceded the program and wives of deceased Past Masters
were guests of the Lodge. About 140 were present and to encourage
attendance they arranged with Job's Daughters that they would baby-sit
in another room, "proV'iding clay, cut-outs and colors for all youngsters.''
The unique celebration of San Diego County, sponsored by the San
Diego County Officer's Association and attracting 1000 persons: they
listened to a short talk by Bro. Robert James, County Clerk, after a
concert by the Shrine Band of Al Bahr Temple, the entrance of massed
American Flags and a choir presentation by members of Job's Daughters. District Court of the United States was then opened by Judge
Jacob Weinberger, and citizenship was conferred on a class of 75 aliens.
Certainly this celebration was a credit to Masonry in more way than
one.

Respectfully submitted,
NEWCOMB CoNDEE
GEORGE

w. BURCH, JR.

GRAHAM A. HACKUS
JoHN WuLLSCHLEGER
MAURICE B. Ross
MARKT. SMITH, JR.
BURTON MEYER, JR.

Referred to Committee on Finance

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This year, because of the lateness of Labor Day, our Grand Master
decreed that the Constitution Observance period shall extend through
October. A number of Lodges took advantage of this latitude and
are holding their Observance celebrations next month. To date,
enough Lodges and Districts have reported on their celebrations that
we can deal here with live facts and immediate events. As of today
50.7% of the Lodges have reported and while this is but a bare majority of all of the Lodges it represents more reports that we received
in total for each of the last two years after all were in that were coming
in.
At the outset, your committee is pleased to report that this year's
Constitution Observance is more outstanding jn many ways than in
any of the last three years. In this respect we can report progress
although with more facts at hand than previously and consequently
less guesswork, we have mathematically retrograded. We are deeply
gratified at the response accorded our efforts throughout the jurisdiction. It has been our purpose to provide leadership and guidance

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

La Mesa Lodge No. 407 should be commended for holding two
Observances-their own which attracted 88 persons and also their participation in the San Diego Observance just referred to. From their
Lodge program they apparently had a lot of fun doing it.
Altadena Lodge No. 678, had a most outstanding celebration which
attracted over 200 persons, on Saturday, Sept. 19th. They first held
a pot-luck picnic at Farnsworth Park, followed by community singing
with an accordian accompaniment. "The crowd then moved to an outdoor amphitheater in the park where a patriotic program was presented
appropriate to the occasion" in the form of a series of tableaux composed of members of Altadena Lodge, De Molay, Job's Daughters
and O.E.S. members. A narrator read from a script as each picture
of the tableau was depicted in full costume, scenery, props, and lighting. The title of the pictures bring to the imagination a cross-section
of our American heritage:
"Boston Tea Party: Spirit of '76: Designing the First Flag: Signers
of the Constitution: Pilgrims: Immigrants: Abraham Lincoln: Judge:
Family Picnic: Iwo Jima: Red Cross-Shrine Crippled Children Charity:
Family Going to Church: Miss Liberty: Alaska."
At the conclusion a short address was given by the U. S. Congressman from their District. From the word of WM Joe L. Schwimm,
of Altadena Lodge, describing this project in his report, it is easy
to deduce that Altadena Lodge is justly proud of their effort and of
its success, as well they might be.
A number of Observances are yet to come in October. This year
again the San Francisco Lodges are joining together in sponsoring an
Observance celebration here in this room on Wednesday evening, Sept.
30, at 8:30 P.M. We understand that they have planned an interesting and entertaining program which includes the United States Marine
Corps Band. We urge you to attend.
Most of the Lodges of Contra Costa County are joining to present
an American Heritage Day program entitled, "The Naked Communist,"
on Sunday, October 25, at 3:30 P.M., at the Richmond Civic Auditorium. Entertainment will be furnished by the combined choral groups
of the Richmond High Schools and Contra Costa Junior Colleges. The
speaker is W. Cleon Skousen, Chief of Police of Salt Lake City and
a national authority on Communism. Aside from his police duties he
is a member of the Utah Bar, a public speaker and author, and is on
the faculty of Brigham Young University. This program should be of
especial interest to Masons as it will provide authoritative information
on this most acute, timely subject which today is on the minds and lips
of everyone.
We wish that we could describe with glowing phrases through the
balance of this report a tremendously successful 1959 Observance but
since we are here to accept and digest the facts we must take, along
with the sweet, some of the bitter, too.

Perhaps if our recent distinguished visitor, His Excellency Nikita
Khrushchev, Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the U.S.S.R.,
sometimes otherwise referred to in less polite language, has his way
and all the nations change and subscribe to his system-as he freely
predicts we will-there will be no bitter, as he claims, since all will be
sweetness. But we fear that His Excellency has spoken to us with
the tongues of men and of angels but without Charity and, except for
his appearance, that he greatly resembles the maidens known as the
Lorelei, who with their beautiful songs and graceful forms tempted
Ulysses and his men onto the rock which diversion detained them from
reaching home for twenty years on their return from the Trojan War:
a successful war by the way, as apparently was His Excellency's tour
of America but with frightening and tragic aftermaths, for Ulysses.
As in prior years this committee still is concerned at some evidence
of apathy, lack of interest and even passive resistance to this annual
Grand Lodge patriotic event. These are evident in Lodges scattered
over the jurisdiction and there is some evidence that the situation is
worse than it has been in the past. Because of the damage they do to
themselves as well as to the Fraternity, and possible violations of our
Law we feel that mention here is warranted as being important to the
wellbeing of the Craft.
As you know, Grand Lodge has for years sponsored among the
Lodges but three annual projects: Public Schools Week, Endowment
Month, and Constitution Observance Month. Each of these arise out
of a Proclamation, or Edict by the Grand Master. All of us are obligated to obey these edicts and Worshipful Masters twice so, and while
it is true that we do not specify the degree of enthusiasm with which
they shall be obeyt!d, "it must follow as the night the day" that obedience in this sense certainly means wholehearted, sincere, sympathetic
co-operation and not half-hearted, apathetic, or mere lip-service gestures. If we do not like the Laws or Ordinances we have enacted under
which we work, and can persuade others to our way of thinking, then
we can invoke the mechanics available to us and charge or altogether
revoke the Law or Ordinances which we do not like. But, this committee takes the viewpoint that it is incumbent on each one of us to carry
out the provisions of the Law, both in letter and spirit, to the utmost
of our individual capability. In the application of the pure principles
of Freemasonry, there ~s no alternative course, no mental reservation,
no half-hearted way or no half-measure co-operation. It must be all.
It must be total. What we refer to here are Lodges who persist in holding their Observance celebrations, if they can be called "celebrations,"
behind tiled, closed doors when the last four Grand Masters' Proclamations required that these programs were to be "open to the public
and to which the public was to be welcomed": or, where some Lodges
have not held and do not, we believe, propose to hold a celebration
at all in spite of the Edict by the Grand Master that such celebrations

189

191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

are to be held. For three years. at least, this situation has existed although how it escapes the eyes and instructive tongues of some few of
the Inspectors is beyound our comprehension --especially when those
same Inspectors are so quick to discern the word "but" injected into the
ritual in place of an "and." Or, where two or more Lodges join together,
as was reported just last week, and only the Worshipful Master doesn't
show up at all but two of his minor officers do: or, where no one at
all shows up from a participating Lodge. If time permitted, we could
go on. It's in the record and in our Oles but this is sufficient to illustrate
what we mean by "apathy" and "passive resistance." It is our sincere
feeling that this minority group of Lodges which we here ref er to,
and to some few of the Inspectors too, are not wilfully disregarding or
disobeying but rather that what appears to be violations of our Law is
but the result of ignorance due to lack of education in such matters, or
of unawareness or a lack of understanding. With proper attention and
careful. dedicated effort on the part of all of us perhaps we can within a
short time turn darkness to light and ignorance to understanding.
Let us hope so for the good of Masonry in general.
The following tabulations may be of interest although it must be
pointed out that the 1959 figures represent only what has come in ·
to date on Masters' reports and projections thereon. Figures for prior
years are complete as to the report received but the projections were
calculated the same as for this year:

Number of single, tiled Lodge meetings held to date........
30
Total Attendance at these Meetings.......................... 1,473 persons
Average Attendance per Lodge per person................
49
"
Number of Combined Meetings Held................................ 123
Total Attendance at These Meetings........................ 14,424
Average Attendance per Meeting.............................. 117
Average Attendance per Lodge per Meeting............
46
In the opinion of the committee a meeting attracting an audience
of 11 7 persons will command greater respect from speakers, radio
and the press, fellow townspeople and officers of community organizations other than Masons, than will an audience of 49 persons.
On the contrary, it may also be deduced from these tables that
we are not on the right track in scheduling combined celebrations as
against each Lodge holding its own affair. While combined programs
attract more people, they lessen the burden on each participating Lodge
with a resultant decrease in interest and decreased support per Lodge.
In this connection, considerable thought must be ,given before combining the celebrations and especially where Lodges are far apart from
each other. Our records and observations prove that more harm than
good is done to Masonry and the warm, fraternal spirit that should
exist between Lodges when Lodges combine to sponsor a public event
such as this, or perhaps any event, and where they are miles apart
as the further from the scene of the event the fewer persons will attend
from the distant points. As a guide it might be said that Lodges should
not combine if they are more than 8-10 miles apart if they expect to
attract either the general public or even the Masons and their families
living a distance ttway. If the Lodges would carefully study and make
use of the suggestions to be found in our Constitution Observance
Guide booklet, there is no reason wny any Lodge, even in the smallest,
most remote town or village of our State. should not put on a very
satisfactory celebration of their own, and, in fact, without resorting
to bringing in a so-called "big name" speaker but using their own local
talent and their native ingenuity. If any Master of a Lodge doubts this
statement let him write or contact the chairman of the Constitution
Observance Committee. Our files contain a number of interesting reports
of what.our brethren have done to make up an excellent program where
there is the will to do it. We have the proof. Ask for it.
For the past three years we have required reports on each Observance celebration from the Masters of the respective Lodges. These reports are in our files and are open to inspection. In addition, this year
we required reports from each of our 14 committeemen. They are also
in our files. We divided the jurisdiction into committee areas, assigning
a committeeman to each area. At a committee meeting in the North
and another in the South, this was unanimously agreed upon and
further, that each committeeman would endeavor to personally meet

190

COMPARATIVE REPORT

1959

1958

1957

Number of Lodges Reporting.............................. 344
Number of Active Lodges in California.............. 685
Percentage of Lodges Reporting .......................... 50.7%
Number of Lodges Failing to Report.................. 341
Total Calculated Attendance as Reported........ 15.897
Number of Celebrations Held and Reported...... 153
Average Attendance per Celebration.................. 104
Average Attendance per Lodge Reporting.......... 46.2
Total 1959 Attendance.......................... 15,897
Projected Attendance of those
Lodges not Reporting ........................ 15,754
(based on 46.2 per Lodge)
TOTAL EST. 31.561

324
682
47.5%
358
15,806
108
146
48.7

267
677
39.4%
410
15,554
98
158
58

32,990

38,885

In addition to these. several other figures pertaining to the 1959
celebrations may be of interest:

..

193

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

with each Officer's Association in his area insofar as he was able to do
so. Although we requested $450 in funds at the last Communication to
finance travel to the more distant points, the funds were not forthcoming.
Even so, many miles were covered by various committee members, one
of whom had to commute to the mainland from Catalina Island on
numerous occasions all requiring overnight lodging and subsistence. All
this was done out of the pocket of each individual. with not one cent
paid out of Grand Lodge funds. And, it was done out of love for the
Fraternity and the work in which we are engaged with no feeling of
resentment on the part of any committeeman, if not the chairman. In my
humble opinion, if this Grand Lodge wishes or ordains a program of
any kind, it should be prepared to pay the just and necessary expenses
of supporting such a program and not depend for too long a time on the
private resources of its members.
During the past 6 month we requested time to appear before approximately 60% of the District meetings. Of those requested, about 60%
graciously ·arranged their programs so as to allow time for a discussion
of their Constitution Observance problems. The remainder of those
asked, or about 40%, either did not reply to our solicitations and
follow-ups at all or were unable to give us the time requested, or in some
cases refused to give time at all for a variety of reasons. In all cases the
requests were made of the Inspectors. We have many fine, conscientious,
capable Inspectors but it is apparent that some cannot afford to give all
the time that is demanded of them and consequently must pick and
choose their program, leaving out that which to them is of lesser importance. We believe that the time is not far distant when we will have to
re-apportion the work-load more equitably to the end that no part of
the program will have to suffer nor that anyone shall be over-worked.
Usually personal contact work like this does not suddenly blossom
forth in unexpected beauty and this has not been an exception but we
think the tree appears healthy. the buds are forming and the radiance
of its beauty perhaps is but another season away. A study of the 1959
Master's reports has convinced us that this personal contact work obtains results. For the most part, where advice and counsel were personally given, the celebrations have improved over previous years. As
a result, we unanimously feel that this is the most likely way that success
of the project will be achieved, if the program is to continue, and we
recommend to the next committee that this same method be followed.
For this purpose we have requested of the Finance Committee that the
sum of $450 above last year's appropriation be given to finance this
phase of the program, should this committee be continued through 1960.
A number of Master's reports object to the Observance program for
a number of reasons. Adding these to the list of Lodges whose support
is but apathetic and half-hearted at best, and the number of Lodges who
hold no Observance at all, and in spite of these constituting a minority,

this committee feels that the time has come when the Lodges of the
jurisdiction should express themselves as to whether they desire this
Observance program to continue or not. We therefore offer the following resolution:
"RESOLVED. that the annual Constitution Month Observance
shall be and hereby is continued."
In the event these observances are continued, then it is recommended
that at the next Communication a new Ordinance be adopted that will
provide the terms and conditions under which the Observance shall be
held.
In the further event that the Observance be continued, it is highly
recommended that the name of the Observance be: "American Heritage
Day." This theme carries the same connotations as heretofore but tends
to broaden out in its very implication the manner in which we may
memorialize the United States Constitution. It stimulates ingenuity and
originality at the local level, both of which are particularly needed in
the smaller communities and, we might add, in the larger communities
too.
Should this committee be continued, we respectfully request that the
sum of $1200 be allocated for our use during the coming year.
It has been a rare privilege and an interesting personal experience
to have been able to serve on this committee for which I express the
appreciation of myself and all of the hard-working members who have
so loyally and conscientiously served with me. For this privilege we
tender our gratitude to the Grand Master and to this Grand Lodge.

192

Respectfully submitted,

0. J. WOHLGEMUTH
HAROLD

c. MUDGETT

RALPH E. ELLIS
EUGENE L. THOMAS
ROBERT ARTHUR MILLER
JoHN M. LEE
GEORGE

w. FISHER

JESSEL. BELL
REYNOLD

c. MACDONALD

REGINALD NEWMAN
WILLIAM

z. FAIRBANKS

VERN W. HENDRIX
SERGEI N. IVANOFF
HENNING J. LUEDERS

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF
THE COMMITTEE OF MASONIC HISTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
On behalf of all the members of the History Committee, I wish to
extend to you, Most Worshipful. our sincere thanks and deep appreciation for the privilege of serving you and the Grand Lodge.
As in former years, it is intended that this. Report should not only
contain an account of the committee's activity during the past year, but
also place into the record certain historical data important to this
jurisdiction and not covered elsewhere.
From time to time we have reported on the disorderly appearance
of some of the historically important burial sites, containing the remains
of illustrious brethren. We are most happy to report that as of this
communication matters are somewhat better, but lest we mislead you,
there is still room for considerable improvement. If we can assume that
no new, blighted graveyards are in the making and if we continue to face
up to our responsibilities, then shortly the last resting places of departed
brethren will be kept permanently green with budding Acacia and bright
with summer's flowering roses.
Grand Master Louis C. Drapeau, in his message to this Grand
Lodge on Monday, October 13, 1952, commented about the laying of
wreaths at the places of rest of all of our Past Grand Masters. About
Past Grand Master William H. Howard's grave, he had this to say:
"We were unable to find the exact place of rest of Past Grand Master
Howard in the old cemetery at Virginia City, Nevada. Vandals have
destroyed or carried away his headstone. But we laid a wreath for
him at a monument erected in memory of another celebrated California
and Nevada Mason, Brother (Edward Faris) Storey."
While this committee appreciates Grand Master Drapeau's generosity in sharing the renowned Edward F. Storey with our sister jurisdiction o~ Nevada. we feel the record should show that Bro. Storey was an
ardent Mason here in California, having been instrumental in founding
Texas Lodge No. 46, at San Juan Bautista and Visalia Lodge No. 128,
Visalia, both Lodges of which he was the first Master, he did nothing
to promote Masonry over in Nevada, probably because he was not
there long enough before he was killed in the Piute War. Storey arrived in Nevada in late 1859 and was killed on June 7, 1860. The first
Masonic Lodge in Virginia City, Virginia No. 3, did not come into
existence until 1862, and then through the efforts of our beloved Past
Grand Master William H. Howard, who had arrived in Virginia City
the year previous. A mistake was made by placing the wreath in memory
of Howard at the Storey marker. The wreath was not placed on
Howard's grave which Bro. Drapeau correctly described as being lost,
but it was placed in the wrong cemetery! The Storey Memorial marker

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

195

is located in what locally is called the "new" cemetery, although it was
started about 1870. Some careful, patient research work conducted this
past year up in Virginia City and at the University of Nevada, and
with the most gracious help of several distinguished Nevada brethren,
revealed that Past Grand Master William H. Howard was buried
in Flowery Hill Cemetery which is about 3 miles east and slightly south
of the present Virginia City. We also have good reason to believe that
Storey is buried in this "new" cemetery and, of course, not at all under
the memorial shaft erected to his memory in 1933 in the present cemetery.
Flowery Hill Cemetery first was the "Boot Hill" cemetery of
Virginia City, burials having started there in 1859-60. In the hurry and
bustle of the mining camp no other ground was set aside for burials and
Flowery Hill soon began to hold the remains of respected and esteemed
citizens. We are indebted to the original files of the "Territorial Enterprize," of September 14 and 19, 1866, and the courtesy of the librarian
of the University of Nevada Library, for Howard's death notice and
obituary which give his burial place as Flowery Hill Cemetery. Further
research convinced us that the old, abandoned cemetery was Flowery
Hill Cemetery, despite some contrary opinions notwithstanding. Up to
this time, despite much searching, investigating, and some exploratory
digging, the exact gravesite of Past Grand Master Howard, in Flowery
Hill Cemetery, has not yet been located and may well never be, but
y9ur committee intends to continue the search. The total absence of any
headstones on any graves is a severe handicap. and to show how vandals
work there was last year about 4 broken headstones scattered among
the sagebrush and graves, and just a month ago, upon re-visiting the
place, not one of t~ese 4 could be found. So now there are none.
Last year, in our Report, your committee proposed that this Grand
Lodge enact legislation permitting the establishment of what we called
a chain of "Registered Historic Masonic Landmarks." The project, as
recommended, would require no financial contributions by Grand Lodge
and was thoroughly described in an appendix to the Report, which was
published in full on pages 204-6 of the 1958 Proceedings. Through inadvertance, we neglected to put the matter before you as a Resolution.
which was the intent. It therefore is still before us in the form of unfinished business. For the record, we now move that this proposal be
placed before this Grand Lodge for approval and I now so move, Most
Worshipful.
Last summer and during the fall months, Bro. 0. J. Wohlgemuth a
member of the committee took over 300 colored photos of about 30 of
our oldest and most historical Masonic Halls throughout northern California. These pictures, supplemented by pictures and photos of several
pioneers and other subjects, loaned to us of a private collection, made
up the lecture entitled, "SOME CAME BY LAND AND SOME
CAME BY SEA," which Bros.
Kenneth Downs, M.A. Epperson and
u

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

members of the History Committee have been showing throughout the
jurisdiction. When we fill several engagement s within the next three
weeks, we will have shown this illustrated lecture before nearly 40
Masonic Districts, comprising about 200 Lodges. We estimate about
5000 brethren have seen the program to date. About 30 lectures in all
will have been given. Despite using 6 lecturers, there were weeks in the
Spring when we could not possibly have squeezed in another date. The
lecture, as developed is not only historically accurate, but is filled with
human interest stories. It requires a full evening to give, running about
1 hour and 45 minutes. Because of the response, we feel it is still necessary to require that wherever possible Lodges join together by Masonic
Districts in requesting dates for a showing. In requesting a presentation in your area, please indicate the day of the week you would like
to have it and give us about 3 choices of dates. In remote areas it is
necessary to schedule it for a Friday or Saturday evening. Address your
request to the History Committee chairman, care of the Grand Lodge
office. Lodges are asked to bear travel and sustenance expense of the
lecturer. He will bring all the equipment he needs to give the program.
"SOME CAME BY LAND AND SOME CAME BY SEA,"
being a "first" in this field by the History Committee, has given rise to a
project which we propose to commence in the fall. It is the production
of several 30 minute short subjects, any one of which we will send
out to a Lodge along with program notes and manuscript. All a Lodge
need do to present the program is to show the pictures and read the
manuscript. Some demand for this sort of presentation has arisen out of
the present program. When we are ready, appropriate announcement
will go forward to the Lodges. The subjects will be historical and of
the same human interest kind as in our first project. The funds we are
requesting in large part is to finance this new project. This year we
contemplate the production of three of these special short subjects. If
they prove popular we will produce more of them in the future.
Your History Committee has endeavored to find where Peter
Lassen visited a Lodge. We have assumed that he visited Western Star
No. 2, but the early tiler's registers of that Lodge are missing. However,
we are indebted to Theodore Meriam, Grand Orator, for having called
our attention to the tiler's register of Chico Lodge No. 111 which shows
that Peter Lassen and John Bidwell visited that Lodge on October 17,
1857. Bro. Meriam states that Lassen visited Chico Lodge on other
occasions, but he is quite certain that this date was the last visit.

We respectfully request the sum of $750 be appropriate d to our
use for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0. WHITSELL
0. J. WOHLGEMUTH
ARTHUR H. TRIGGS
CARL w. BRAINARD
FRANK EVERE'IT
w. G.BRILL
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

196

197

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON RESEARC H
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your research committee is grateful to the Grand Master for encouraging and supporting the work of Masonic education in all its
phases. Our appreciation also goes to the Grand Secretary for his help,
especially with mailing lists and distribution of material.
All Grand Lodges endorse Masonic education with varying degrees of emphasis. California is a leader in the field, not following any
sterotyped program but building an original self-contained system
which it is belived is best fitted to the needs of our jurisdiction. The research committee is the instrument for carrying out the Grand Lodge
program of Masonic education.
CONSTITUENT LoDGES
is to supply blanket coverage so that
committee
the
of
The aim
every constituent Lodge will partiicipate. Each incoming Worshipful
Master is requested to name a research committee in his Lodge. His
secretary reports the name and address of the chairman to the Grand
Secretary who compiles a research mailing list. The list is used for
periodical mailings of educational helps gathered by the Grand Lodge
committee and issued under the title of "Research Notes." The Lodge
committee thus has available suitable material to be read to the Lodge
or used as the basis for remarks. Lodge chairmen who have the time
and inclination to work up their own material are encouraged to do so.
The success or failure of Lodge committees in bringing educational papers and talks to the attention of the Lodge is controlled to a
great extent by the attitude of the Worshipful Master, since this is not
a mandatory observance imposed on the constituent Lodges by Grand
Lodge but only made available for their benefit.
Your committee is pleased to report that most Worshipful Masters
are receptive to the plan outlined and arrange for educational reports to
be given at some time during the year. The procedure favored by your
committee is to have the Master call on the research committee of his
Lodge for a five to ten minute committee report at each stated meeting.

198

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

RESEAR CH LoDGES

The researc h Lodges have been a feature of the Califor nia jurisdic
tion since 1951. There are now three such charter ed bodies, all prospe
rous and useful to the constit uent Lodges which they serve. They
are
centers of learning and a gatheri ng place for those Mason s among
us
able and willing to bring education to others. The researc h Lod~es
carry on their own indepe ndent schedules but are always respon
sive
to the sugges tions of your committee.
Northe rn Califor nia Research Lodge gained eleven members during the year, presen ted six seminars and 44 individual speakers. Its
members travele d 10,000 miles at their own expens e in these endeav~
rs. A
high-li ght of the year was a large San Franci sco meeting for candid
ates
coaches.
.
Southe rn Califor nia Resear ch Lodge reports 58 appear ances an d
participation in seven seminars. Forty- two of its 106 members
were
active in these progra ms which reache d a total attenda nce of 4780
~nd
served 200 Lodges. Membe rs travele d the amazin g total of 12,500
miles.
El Camino Resear ch Lodge, the newest of the three, successfully
presen ted 17 progra ms, a splend id record.
All three researc h Lodges collaborated in the Fresno research conference, the first time such a joint event has been held.
REGION AL SEMINA RS

To supplement and extend the efforts of the ~esearch Lo~ges, your
committee arrang ed a series of nine regional semm~rs ~ea~hmg
an a~­
ditional attenda nce of 1670 and serving 39 Mason ic districts. The
hst
is as follows:
Date
District
Attend ance
Jan. 31 .......... .San Diego. Distric ts 636-646..........................................
250
Mar. 13-14 ... .Blythe-Needles, Distric ts 601-607.-·················-········
"···150
Mar. 14 ......... Long Beach, Distric ts 614-620-626-630......................
.. 200
Mar. 14......... Florence. Distric ts 518-1 9. 566-6 7.................................
.20Q
Apr. 11 ..........Pasad~a. J?is~ricts 514-16, 544-46, 560, 564, 608 ........
~25
Apr. 18 ......... .0ntan o, Distric ts 602-12, 616........................................
35
Distric t 526, 548. 552................................ 85
May 10··········Culver City
. ..
May 23..........Tulare, Distric ts 422-27 ····························-······················ 100
May 23 ..........Fresno . Distric ts 410, 416, 418,424 ..- .............................
.125
Most of these seminars presen ted an extend ed progra m with
a
variety of subjects, startin g at 2 P.M. and extend ing over a
coffeebreak and the dinner recess to 9 P.M. An effort was made to have
~he
progra m terminate with an inspirational speake r. To the hard workin
g
chairmen, masters of ceremo ny and partici pants, and the Inspec tors
a~d
Lodge officers who lent their support, the committee expres ses
its
gratitu de.

199

GRAND LoDGE RESP.ARCH SEMINA R

This year, as in years. past, your committee arrang ed the semina
r
to be presen ted on the Tuesd ay evening of Grand Lodge Week. runnin
g
from 1 to 10 P .M. The main auditorium is set aside for prospe
ctive
Master s' Works hop. It is for the special benefit of Senior Warde
ns.
Speake rs of outstan ding experience and ability cover subjects of
vital
importance to the successful functioning of the constit uent Lodge.
For Master s. Past Paster s and those interes ted in subjects of more
genera l interest, the four committee rooms on the ground floor
are
reserve d for two classes each, running simultaneously. The first
class
in each room starts at 1 and the second at 8:30. The researc h Lodges
have supplied expert person nel for the panel discussions in the
class
rooms.
From the wealth of talent and variety of discussions both in the
main auditor ium and on the ground floor, it should be possibl
e for
everyo ne attendi ng Grand Lodge to take home something of benefit
to
himself and his Lodge which will make his Mason ic life more meanin
gful.
RECOM MENDA TIONS

The researc h progra m has grown each year. The features now
in
use have been selecte d on the basis of trial and error over the last
eight
years. We would like to see them adopte d by Grand Lodge on
a permanen t basis.
The manifold duties connec ted with the variou s fields of endeav or
covere d by this report are more than one committee can efficiently
discharge . We therefo re recommend a reorgan ization to subdivide
these
duties into researt h committees for northe rn and southe rn Califom
ias,
and separa te committees for the prepar ation of research materia
l and
the organi zation of the Grand Lodge seminar. Legislation design
ed to
carry out this reorga nizatio n is attache d hereto as an exhibit.
This is a committee report, signed by all members of the committee.
The entire committee favors a division of responsibilities but there
is
a difference of opinion as to how it should be carried out, several
members favoring subcommittees, while the chairm an is joined by at
least
one other committee member in believing they should be separa te
committees, appoin ted by and responsible to the Grand Master .
We reques t that it be referre d to the proper committees for consid
eration but that, in one form or anothe r, Grand Lodge continu
e its
progra m of researc h with an approp riation adequa te for the purpos
e.
Respectfully submitted,
EVE.RE IT HOUSE R
LEONE L C. PANOS H

HARRY G. WILSO N
FORRE ST R. HASSE LL

EUGEN E

RoBER T

s. HOPP

PERCY E. PALME R

J. CAMPBELL

PAULL . YAGER

200

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPOR NIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
EXHIBIT A

205 Masonic Education. The educational program of Grand Lodge

shall be carried out through the system of committees herein provided,
each consisting of three members or more, appointed by each incoming
Grand Master for the ensuing Masonic year, as follows:
(a) Committee on Research for Norther n California.
( b) Committee on Research for Southern California.
Each of these committees shall have the duty in its respective area
to plan and supervise Masonic education generally, to promote the naming of a research committee by the Master of each Lodge, to maintain a
mailing list of research committee chairmen in the ofRce of the Grand
Secretary. to encourage the research Lodges in rendering the greatest
possible assistance to constituent Lodges and to promote regional
seminars and other educational meetings through out the jurisdiction.
with special attention to population centers not in the vicinity of a
research Lodge.
( c) Committee on Research Material.
This committee shall have the duty to supply Masonic information
and educational helps for the use of the research committees in the
constituent Lodges and to circulate printed material to them under the
title of "Resear ch Notes" in Februar y, April and June of each year, over
the mailing list maintained in the ofRce of the Grand Secretary.
(d) Committee on Grand Lodge Seminar.
This committee shall have the duty to plan and present a research
seminar during each annual communication for the instruction and benefit of prospective Masters, in matters other than ritual, and also for the
benefit of members of Grand Lodge interested in Masonic education.
This ordinance shall not be construed as replacing or limiting the
functions and integrity of the research Lodges.

REPO RT OF COMM ITTEE ON
DISPO SITIO N OF GRAN D MAST ERS' PORT RAITS
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
After careful consideration of various alternatives for the display of
the portraits of Past Grand Master s in the new Memorial Temple and
after discussions with members of the Grand Lodge and with other Past
Grand Masters , this committee recommends the following:
1. That photogr aphs of and biographical data on all Past Grand
Master s be suitably displayed in the main entranc e foyer, with a
duplicate set of photos and histories to be prepare d for the archives.
2. That existing portrait s of Grand Masters. with the exception of the
one of the first Grand Master, be returne d to the various home
Lodges with the underst anding that these Lodges will hang the
portrait s in their own rooms or present them to the families.
3. That the portrait of the first Grand Master continue to hang in the

201

Grand Master 's ofRce in the Memorial Temple where it is now
located.
4. That the policy be adopted of ceasing to commission the painting
of the portrait s of future Grand Masters.
An explanation of the reasons behind these recommendations follows:
Lack of Available Space in the Memorial Temple for Hanging Large
~ortraits. The .Committee feels that the Temple has no place which
is Sllltable for hangmg large portraits of past and future Grand Masters.
The Committee considered, for example. the possibility of utilizing the
marble walls in the entranc e foyer, upstairs and down; the second Boor
wall outside the auditorium; the committee rooms; and the corridors in
the back of the auditorium leading to the committee rooms.
The Committee feels that the style of architecture in the Temple and
the co.nstruction of the walls do not lend themselves to the type of
portrait s we have, and proper lighting facilities for display purposes are
be
nonexisten~. E~cept for the marble walls, there does not appear to
of
display
proper
for
red
conside
enough he~ght m any of the locations
a
only
have
red
conside
areas
the
of
most
th~ .portraits. Inasmuch as
persons
by
brushed
be
would
therein
hung
s.
portrait
m1m?1um of space,
passing or ~ven leaned against. This would be particularly bad since
~he Temple 1s rented so often for convention and other purposes. There
is no one area in the building large enough to hold even a major portion
of the portraits.
The Committee rejects, therefore, the idea of hanging existing portraits and suggests a proposal for an alternat e procedure.
Future Display of the Portraits. The Committee recommends that
instead of hanging the oil portraits of Past Grand Master s the Grand
Lodge provide display for the best possible photographs of each Grand
Master. together with a brief historical sketch of his accomplishments
during his term of ofRce. This display should be provided somewhere
in or near the main entranc e foyer. The Committee recommends that it
be provided in one of two ways:
First, and preferably. in swinging plastic-covered panels housed in
suitable stands to be installed between the terrace doors in the main
entranceway. These cabinets should be designed to harmonize with
the metal trim in the foyer and should provide for photographs at least
8 x 10 in size.
Or, secondly, in a beautifully designed book which would be displayed on a table in the small sitting room just off the main foyer on the
first Boor. Again, provision should be made for 8 x 10 photographs and
the appropr iate factual material.
Besides honoring Past Grand Masters, such a display will make it
possible for us to share with casual visitors to the Temple some unders~ding of the history of Masonr y in California and some acquaintence
with the fine men who have led the fraternity. The Committee recom-

'?ii

202

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LO[)GE OP-CALIFORNIA

mends, incidentally, that a duplicate set of the photographs and accompanying information should be prepared for the archives.
As an example of the type of display it prefers, the Committee presents the attached sketch from the Royal Showcase Company of San
Francisco. The sketch pictures a stand holding 10 panels, each to have
two pictures on the front and two on the back, or a total of 40. Starting
with three stands to accommodate the present need, we could later expand by the addition of other stands as the need arises. The panels will
be of a size to hold an 8 x 10 photograph vertically plus 350 words of
copy. The approximate over-all size of the panels (although design
of the entire stand and panels cannot be fixed until decisions with regard
to the Committee's recommendations are made) will be approximately
10 x 16 or 12 x 15, according to whether the historical information is
placed at the bottom or at the side of the photographs.
The frame and beveled molding panels probably should be of metal
with a special double baked-on silver finish to the sample submitted.
Cost of each frame and accompanying panels is estimated at $350.
The Committee wishes to point out that its proposal is flexible and
subject to ready modification, e.g.: Each stand could be designed to
hold more panels, and thus the number of stands could be reduced: or
the panels themselves could be mounted on the metal separating the
doors to the terrace or on the pillars instead of being swung from stands;
if additional space is needed for biographical data, the number of panels
could be doubled. and the copy could face the photograph, with two
photographs thus appearing on one side of a panel and two writeups
on the back.
The Committee understands from the Grand Secretary that photographs already are available for most of the Past Grand Masters. It
assumes that the necessary biographical data will be furnished by the
Masonic History Committee and that the final design and location of the
stands and/or panels will be approved by the Memorial Temple
Trustees.
Existing Portraits To Be Returned. The Committee recommends that
each of the existing portraits, with the exception of the one picturing the
first Grand Master, be returned with appropriate ceremonies to the
Lodge of the former Grand Master. The portrait thereafter should be
hung in the home Lodge of the former Grand Master or, if the Lodge
and his family so desire, returned to the Master's family---and, again,
with appropriate ceremonies.
Portrait of the First Grand Master. Feeling that the portrait of
Brother Stevenson is especially inspiring, the Committee recommends
that this particiular portrait remain in the position of honor now given
it in the Grand Master's office in the Memorial Temple. In addition to
having the historical value that comes with its marking the beginning of

the Grand Lodge in California, this particular portrait appears to be one
of the better ones.
No Future Portraits. Since it is not recommending further display
of Grand Masters' portraits, the Committee suggests that the Grand
Lodge cease commissioning the painting of portraits for future Grand
Masters. It makes this proposal. not only because of its feeling about the
limited opportunity for display of the portraits. but also because of the
difficulty of securing consistently high quality at a reasonable cost.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. REDFORD
CHESTER R. MACPHEE

203

ALBERT FARB ER
JAMES K. WILSON
PETER M. TRIPP

Adopted
Recommendation for approval referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC CEMETERIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
During the past year, your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries has
undertaken a complete review of all information accumulated during the
past three years. This Committee first came into existence late in 1956.
Since that time every effort has been made to establish a complete list of
cemeteries owned by California Lodges together with their history and
their present physical condition.
From the very 8rst your Committee has found that the information
received in many cases is either vague, subject to interpretation or contradictory. It, therefore, seemed important that these items be cleared.
We believe that we have accomplished this during the past year or at
least have materially reduced the number so as to now give to Grand
Lodge a detailed report which reflects the true picture of California
Masonic Cemeteries.
Again we wish to point out that our cemeteries fall into several well
defined categories. To understand the problems involved it must be made
clear that we not only have many cemeteries owned and operated by our
Lodges but we also have joint ownership of cemeteries with other bodies.
usually the Independent Order of Odd Fellows. We have another group
which formerly were Masonic cemeteries but now are maintained by
public funds. We have Lodges which own plots within private or
public cemeteries: we have at least three Masonic cemeteries where the
actual ownership has not been established, although present information
sems to indicate that they may belong to this Grand Lodge. due to their
having been established by Lodges now extinct: and finally we have
innumerable single graves which are marked by a Masonic emblem.

204

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Attached to this report, but not necessarily a part therof. is a complete list of the cemeteries grouped as has just been indicated, showing
present and past ownership, history whenever available, and present
condition of the cemetery.
Also attached to this report but not necessarily a part thereof, is a
photograph album wherein we have attached pictures of our cemeteries
whenever available.
Our report also gives a complete numerical list of Lodges reporting
that they do not now nor have they ever owned a Masonic cemetery or
part thereof. This report therefore now shows:
23 Masonic cemeteries owned by Masonic Lodges.
8 cemeteries jointly owned.
27 former Masonic cemeteries. now operated by public funds.
23 Lodges owning plots within private or public cemeteries.
Total 81 resting places for Brother Masons.
At the last annual Communication of Grand Lodge, legislation was
passed which required all Lodges owning cemeteries (in whole or in
part), or a plot within a cemetery, to make an annual report to Grand
Lodge. As this report is written only fourteen Lodges have filed such a
report. A continued study of Masonic cemeteries has brought forth
certain weaknesses in our legislation. This lead the Committee last
year to submit certain recommendations to Grand Lodge for its consideration. Some of these recommendations were approved. However,
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommended, and
Grand Lodge approved, that five of the proposals be returned to the
Cemetery Committee for "more specific proposal as to policy and
legislation."
We therefore submit as a part of this report, the recommendations
referred to above. We now believe that they will meet the requirements
as set forth by your action in 1958. They again are the recommendations
of your Cemetery Committee and we offer them for your consideration.
This Committee is deeply indebted to the Inspectors. Masters and
Secretaries for their patient cooperation. Without their help this report
would not be possible. We also are indebted to the Grand Secretaries
office and staff. Their courteous, friendly and efficient assistance has
made it a pleasure to work with them. We appreciate their assistance.
Respectfully submitted,
}ACK C. BUTLER
SAMUEL E. LEDDEL
HAROLD C. SCHRODER
THOMAS EDWARDS
ALBERT W. CRUMPTON

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
RECOMMENDATION

205

No. I

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CEMETERIES

Masonic cemeteries have existed in California since 1850. This
Committee has been unable to find any serious breach of Masonic law or
of commercialism in our entire history. All of our cemeteries have been
conducted in a dignified, quiet and wholly Masonic manner.
In 1891, Grand Master Conklin ruled, and it is still our Masonic
Law (Code No. 409a) that "Providing a suitable place for burial of its
dead, and maintenance thereof. are legitimate expenses of a Lodge."
Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries reads Section 333 B-3 as
meaning that no Mason shall use or be a party to the use of the word
Masonic unless it shall be a cemetery or burial association conducted
wholly by Masons and only for the use and benefit of Masons or
Masonry.
It is the opinion of this Committee that very few of our cemeteries
come within the scope of this interpretation. There are some Masonic
cemeteries which limit the sale of lots to Masons only. Many restrict the
sale of lots to Masons and their families. Still others permit the sale of
lots to the general public. This last group includes all of those cemeteries
which are jointly owned with the Independent Order of Odd Fellows.
In raising the question of possible commercialism it is not the intent
of this Committee to set aside customs which have long been practiced
by the Craft. Some of these customs have existed within our cemeteries
since the beginning of Masonry in California. It is because these have
been permitted to go unnoticed all of these years that we now feel that
our records should either recognize them. if in error, then necessary
corrections should be made.
During recent years, Grand Lodge has focused attention on commercialism and through its Committee has attempted to define and limit
such activity. There can be little doubt that originally and perhaps
basically all Masonic cemeteries are to some degree commercial. We
now feel that the time has arrived for us to determine the scope of our
cemeteries.
Your Committee on Cemeteries therefore recommends: that a new
subsection be added to California Masonic Code No. 333 to be known
as section No. 333Q to clarify any possible misinterpretation as to the
operation and maintenance of Masonic cemeteries. such subsection to
read as follows: .
Masonic cemeteries have operated in California since 1852 without
the need of special legislation and have so conducted their affairs as to
reflect credit upon our Fraternity. They therefore shall be permitted to
continue their operations as in the past. They may sell lots within their
cemetery (or plots) to Masons, their wives, widows and family, and to
orphans. when in keeping with Masonic principles and practices. New

206

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Masonic cemeteries shall be operated as non-profit units, however. lots
may be sold so as to provide for perpetual care and all lots sold should
provide for the continued well groomed appearanc e of the cemete_ry.
Nothing in this section is intended to in any way ·reflect upon the wording
of section 333 except as it may apply to Masonic cemeteries. Any violation by a Lodge, Cemetery Committee or other Masonic group or individual as to the terms of section No. 333, except as above provided.
shall be subject to Masonic penalties as provided by our laws.

415a-Th e proper care and maintenance of all cemetery property,
owned in whole or in part. including all lots or plots, are the responsibility of the Lodge or Lodges holding title thereto. and it shall be mandatory
upon them to so maintain the cemetery. lot or plot, as to reflect credit
upon the Fraternity . This responsibility shall rest fully upon a Lodge
owning a cemetery, or in joint ownership with another Lodge. or joint
ownership with some non-Maso nic group, or a lot or plot within a public
or private cemetery.
415b-lt shall be the responsibility of a Lodge or Lodges to care for
all graves within their jurisdiction which carry Masonic emblems or other
Masonic identification on their headstones.

REcoMMD ATION No.

H

SPECIAL CoMMIITE E ON CEMETERI ES

Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries has carefully studied the
California Masonic Code. Within its index we find twenty-five sections
which deal with our funeral service; fourteen of these same sections are
listed under burials, plus six additional sections. This makes a total of
thirty-one sections in our code which outline our proper course of action
following the death of a brother. When we investigat e cemeteries in
the code, we find but three sections to which to refer.
.
Sections 409A in 1891 provides that "a suitable place for a burial
of its dead and the maintenan ce thereof are legitimate expenses of a
Lodge." Section 333h passed in 1954 and 1955 provid~s t~at "a Lo~ge
owning cemetery property may relieve itself of trust obhgatton s ~o ~am­
tain the property if such burdens are assumed by a cemetery district to
which the property is transferre d." Section 332A passed in 19.36. pr~­
vides that "a privately owned cemetery with the word Masonic m its
name or advertisin g itself as Masonic it subject to proceedin gs to cease
and desist."
It is the opinion of your Committee that there exists a definite obligation to our deceased brothers and that it is long past time to give thought
to some definite legislation which will continuall y remind us of this
obligation. We attend funerals and we deliver a beautiful service but
it seems that once a brother is lowered into his grave that we forget our
responsibilities to him. We forget the pride of the Craft in a well cared
for grave.
Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries therefore recommends:
That section now known as Code No. 409a be deleted:
That a new section be added to our California Masonic Code to be
known as Section No. 415.
That the cross references of Section 409 include a reference to this
new Section "Masonic Cemeterie s No. 415."
That Section No. 415 read as follows:
Providing a suitable place for the burial of its dead, and maintenan ce
thereof. are legitimate expenses of a Lodge. Conklin. G.M .. 1891 '. pp~l.
214; RD No. 605. The care of our dead is clearly a Masonic obligation
as is our care of the living.

RECOMME NDATION No.

207

III

SPECIAL CoMMITIE E ON CEMETERI ES

Approved by Grand Lodge in 1958-No legislation prepared.
Your Committe e on Masonic Cemeteries has carefully studied the
rulings made in 1954 and 1955 by Most Worshipf ul Past Grand Masters
Harwell and Clausen in which they decided that a Lodge may relieve
itself of its trust obligations to maintain a cemetery property if such
burdens are assumed by a cemetery district. Investigat ion by your
Committe e has brought to light some seventeen Masonic cemeteries
which have received "relief of its trust obligation s" by the formation of
cemetery districts.
Your Committee is not altogether sure that this ruling should be followed in all cases regardless of circumstances. For example, we agree
that in the case of Humboldt Lodge No. 79, that such action was wise
and in the best interest of Masonry a!Td the comunity. The cemetery
had to be moved to make room for the city's expansion. By mutual agreement the city took over the cemetery as an historical landmark. On the
other hand should a Lodge be relieved of its obligation merely because
lack of interest and poor manageme nt has forced them into a position
wherein the Lodge must use some of its own funds to rehabilitat e the
cemetery or are they to be permitted to slide out from under by forming
a cemetery district which will assume their responsibilities.
Your Committe e questions the use of public funds as a means of relieving us of our obligation. We wonder at the reaction of a brother or
his family in the purchase of a plot in a ·Masonic cemtery, when they
suddenly find that the cemetery has become, not a Masonic plot, but one
supported and managed by public funds.
Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries therefore recommends: that
Section No. 333H of the Masonic Code be modified to read as follows:
A Lodge owning cemetery property may relieve itself of trust ob~ga­
tions to maintain the property ( 1 ) if such burdens are assumed by a
cemtery district and ( 2) if such cemetery district will maintain the
cemetery as an historical landmark. The Lodge, of course, should not

208

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

engage in any political campaign in connection with any such transfer.
No Lodge is relieved of any of its obligations by permitting its
property to be transferred to a cemetery district, except as provided
above. They shall be responsible for the Masonic graves that existed at
the time of transfer and shall be held responsible for their care, maintenance and general upkeep. This section of the cemetery must be maintained as a Masonic section as that was the agreement at the time the
grave was sold.
CoMa
RECOMENDA TION No. IV
SPEc.1AL COMMITTEE ON CEMETERIES

Your Committe on Masonic Cemeteries has found that Masonic
plots within private cemeteries have been and are being kept in excellent
condition. As long as a private cemetery displays the proper respect in
the use of our name, we realize that there is little to be done.
The mere fact that a private cemetery has a Masonic section (usually
not exclusively sold to Masons) may in itself indicate that our name is
being used in fostering the sale of their lots. This custom, however, is
one of long standing and no breach of our laws has come to the attention of this Committee.
With this generally accepted practice of Masonic plots within private
cemeteries, your Committee believes that proper legislation should be
provided prior to the time that conflict with our standards might develop.
Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries therefore recommends: that the
following sub-section be added to Code No. 302 to be known as 302 B.
302 B A privately owned cemetery that maintains a plot which has
been designated as a "Masonic•• section within said private cemetery,
(such section may be indicated by the use of our emblem or other
Masonic representati on) shall be subject to all of our rules and regulations, and shall be subject to Masonic action whenever infringements
develop.
RECOMENDA TION No. V
SPECIAL COMMITTEE OP CEMETERIES

Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries has information on nine
cemeteries where a Masonic lodge has ownership jointly with the Independent Order of Odd Fellows. One of this group has a cemetery
operated jointly by the community, the Masonic lodge, the Independen t
Order of Odd Fellows and the Catholic Church through a board of
directors.
Two of the a}n:)ve now indicate that they are within a cemetery dfs.trict. Of the remaining seven cemeteries, one is neglected, two report that
their condition is very poor, two indicate that they are well cared for
and two have given the committee no report as ~e condition of. their
cemetery. It is the opinion of your committee that joint ownership of

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

209

a cemetery is not conductive to good maintenance. With the passage of
time one or both organization s are apt to lose interest and live in hope
that the other will pick up the full responsibility. Two organization s may
enact legislation and, though well intended. may stir up misundersta ndings and may even lead to hard feelings.
This committee has been unable to find anything in our code which
permits of joint-membership of a cemetery. or any other property, with
a non-Masoni c group. Neither is there any indication that such action
is prohibited. In early California Masonic history such joint ownership
seemed to be an accepted practice.
Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries therefore recommends: Add
section J to code No. 405.
405 J No lodge may use its funds to purchase in joint ownership with
a non-Masoni c body. any real property to be used as a cemetery or for
any other joint purpose. It is not intended that this legislation exclude
the lodges' right to purchase as sole owner any section of property within a cemetery to be used as a Masonic plot. Any such section or plot
must be the exclusive responsibility of the lodge.
405 K All lodges now operating cemeteries under joint ownership
should prepare to secure a clear title to that portion of the cemetery
used by them and prepare to secure the relationship of joint ownership
either through mutual agreement or by purchase. Our obligation to our
dead cannot be a divided responsibility. Care should be exercised in a
transaction of this type to prevent any injury to the lodge. It is therefore
important that each such lodge be given ample time to work out its own
solution.
The Committee submitted with the above report carefully prepared
descriptive material, which listed and described all phases of Masonic
cemetery programs which had come to their attention. This material
has been flied in the Grand Secretary's office as part of the records applying to the Committee on Cemeteries, where it is available for reference
and guidance.
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMIT TEE ON SCHOLAR SHIPS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The special committee appointed by the Grand Master to perform
certain duties in connection with the program of awarding scholarships
for advanced study in higher education has had several meetings in
1959 to date. The committee has studied ·the various submissions of
applicants during the past few years and has found them wanting in
many respects and leaving much to be desired. The committee feels that
the fraternity has not received from the scholarship program any of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the results originally hoped for. In addition, the program as now set up
has not had the cooperation of the universities having graduate schools
in education. Under these circumstances the program has been dormant
during the past year with no entries submitted and no awards made.
The committee has some definite ideas as to a scholarship program
and within the next few months should be able to formulate them. It
would seem, however, that the authority of the committee was to administer the program, judge the entries and recommend to the Grand
Master the granting of awards. The committee feels that it should
be given authority to make concrete suggestions as to whether the program should be continued and if so, in what form. Under these
circumstances the committee requests that the appropriation made last
year for the purpose of awarding scholarships be continued in the
forthcoming budget and that some committee continue to work upon
the problem. Since one of the functions of the new committee would
be to make recommendations concerning the continuance of the program
and its future administration, it is suggested that the size of the committee be augmented so as to consider all possible viewpoints.
Respectfully submitted,
SAMUEL I. JACOBS
GEORGE D. GAVIN
WARD M. NICHOLS
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

At the 109th Annual Communication in October 1958, a majority
report was presented rejecting completely any modification of the
ritual as it would be affected by the use of visual aids. A minority
report protesting the limited study made of the topic assigned and
recommending restudy by a new committee was adopted. The
present committee is the result of this action.
B. Purpose: The responsibility of this committee has been defined in
two ways: ( 1) the recommendation of the minority report that this
committee "present to Grand Lodge at its 1959 Communication
recommendations relative to the type of aids to be used, if any, and
the manner in which they shall be used" and ( 2) the charge of the
Grand Master to the new committee that "the question of visual
aids be thoroughly explored and a report presented to the forthcoming Communication which will dispose of the question once and
for all."
C. Personnel: Something of the background of this committee may be
helpful to the members of Grand Lodge in evaluating this report.
All. of course, are Past Masters of California lodges. Two are former
inspectors and thus are well acquainted with the problems of ritual,
instruction, and law. Two have served Grand Lodge as appointive
officers. One is connected with the motion picture industry and
hence well understands the potential of visual aids. One is a public
school educator thoroughly conversant with the use of audio-visual
tools as learning aids. All are dedicated to the fraternity and thus
to the ideal of making Masons, not merely adding members.

210

REPORT OF
THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON VISUAL AIDS
I. INTRODUCTION:
The five members of the Special Committee on Visual Aids are
unanimous in their opinion that service on this committee has been a
unique and rewarding experience. We can only trust that the hours of
study and deliberation, dealing by the nature of our assignment with
basic issues of Masonic law, ritual, and education, and the recommenc;iations resulting therefrom, will prove of value to the welfare and harmony
of our esteemed Grand Lodge. It is in this spirit, plus the conviction that
better answers are possible than can evolve from either indifference on
the one hand or arbitrary prohibitions on the other, that this committee
is pleased to submit the following report.
II. THE CoMMIITEE:
A. Reason for: Brethren who have followed Grand Lodge proceedings
closely will recall that at the 108th Annual Communication in September 1957, resolutions were presented which in effect protested
decisions by the Ritual Committee banning use of ship models and
pictures and favored more extensive use of visual aids in the three
degrees. The action taken was appointment of a special committee
"in order that a full evaluation may be made of the entire subjttt."

211

III. PROCEDURE:
A. Meetings: A ·criticism was made of the original committee that it
met only once, and at that time all members were not present. This
committee has met flve times in three to four hour sessions. In addition, many individual conferences have been held including one
in Berkeley by the Chairman with the Grand Lecturer and three
proponents of the original resolutions.
B. Questionnaires: A study as complete at this committee was expected
to make must be based on facts. Therefore, utilizing questionnaire
techniques carefully planned, we have contacted every lodge of this
Grand Jurisdiction, as well as the forty-eight other Grand Lodges
within the continental United States, to ascertain both practice and
opinion as they relate to the use of visual aids. The nature of the
inquiry is reflected in the findings of this report.
C. Solicitation of individual opinion: Through a printed fovitation in
the 1959 summer issue of THE CALIFORNIA FREEMASON,
as well as directly through conversations by individual committee
members, we have received many points of view freely volunteered.
These replies have even included sample visual aids.

212

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

s, the comD. Review of available visual aids: From different source
which offer
nies
compa
five
least
at
mittee has learned that there are
fllms, film
ing
includ
aid
of
type
vable
concei
commercially every
numbe r
limited
A
es.
costum
and
re,
furnitu
s,
model
,
strips, charts
of these items have been examined.

IV. FINDIN GS:

in Califo rA. Repor t of Califo rnia lodge opinion: Of 682 active lodges
t 15,
Augus
by
nia to which questionnaires were sent, we had replies
.
return
t
percen
57
a
388,
when tabula tion report ed was closed, from
dents.
respon
all
by
As usual not all questions were answe red
With reference to practice we have obtained these answe rs.
sion
1. Does your Lodge no~ have in its possession, or in the posses
to
used
been
have
which
aids
of any of its members, any visual
illustr ate:
a. Degre es while in progre ss? Yes 46, No 313.
b. Maste r's lectures to candid ates 1 Yes 81, No 297.
c. Proficiency lectures by candidates? Yes 2, No 348.
343.
d. d. Gener al educational lectures for membership? Yes 6, No
and
2.1£ your answe r is "yes" to any of the responses above, could
for
ittee
comm
the
to
ble
availa
made
would these materials be
review? Yes 82, No 37.
With reference to opinion we have found:
for the
1. Do you believe carefu lly selected visual aids, uniform
and
law
our
with
ny
jurisdiction, could be developed in harmo
s
degree
the
of
veness
effecti
the
obligations which would enhan ce
for:
191.
a. The candid ate at time degree is received? Yes 169, No
244.
No
85,
Yes
ency?
profici
ing
attain
in
ate
b. The candid
c. The Maste r in confer ring degree? Yes 139, No 208.
197.
d. The membership in witnessing the degree? Yes 148, No
and
2. If your answe r is "yes" to any of the questions above, could
ized
author
other
would you on reques t share with this or some
orated
committee details of how and why such aids could be incorp
in our work? Yes 167, No 28.
be re3. Do you believe presen t practices are adequ ate and should
apittee
Comm
Ritual
the
tained witho ut modification except as
proves? Yes 2H, No 126.
s to which
B. Repor t of other Grand Lodge s: Of the 48 Grand Lodge
39 or
from
15,
t
Augus
questionnaires were sent we had replies by
rethe
of
ary
summ
fied
simpli
a
81 percen t return. Follow ing is
sponse s:

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

213

Status of Visual Aids
Jurisdiction
legal provisions pro or con.
no
use;
nal
Optio
......
Arizo na..........
and charts limited to monislides
of
use
nal
Optio
....
..........
sas
Arkan
torial.
Colora do ...............Mand atory use of aids including esoteric.
Conne cticut.......... Optio nal use of slides limited to monitorial.
Delaw are.............. Mand atory use of slides, film strips.
Slides uniform for jurisdiction; approv ed by Grand
Dist. of
Columbia.............. Lecturer; used in all degree s and lectures.
aids.
Georg ia.................Optio nal use; no specific regula tions on visual
ic.
esoter
es
includ
strips
film
slides,
of
Idaho.....................Optional use
to
limited
s
degree
all
in
sliides
of
use
atory
Illinois................... Mand
monitorial.
tion on
lndian a ................. Optio nal use of slides and charts; no legisla
subject.
Optio nal use of slides and charts; extensively used
..
..........
..........
lowa
by Mason ic Educa tion Committee.
limited
Kansa s..................Optio nal use of slides, film strips, painti ngs
ComRitual
of
al
approv
to
t
to monitorial; subjec
mittee.
prepar ed
Kentucky..............Optio nal use of slides and films; specially
ion.
educat
ic
Mason
for
m
progra
movie
Louisianna. ...........Optio nal use of aids Mmited to monitorial..
to moniMaine................... Optio nal use of slides and models limited
torial.
degrees.
Maryl and ............. Mand atory use of slides in first and third
use.
its
prohib
Massachusett~ ..... .Constiitution
Michi gan .............. Optio nal use includes esoteric.
to
Mississippi... ........ Unifo rm for jurisdiction; optional use limited
rial.
monito
subject.
Missouri... ............ Optio nal use of slides or films; no law on
subject.
on
law
no
films;
or
slides
of
Monta na...............Optio nal use
s.
degree
third
and
first
in
slides
of
Nebra ska..............Optio nal use
t.
subjec
on
law
no
s;
degree
all
New Hamp shire...Optional use in
New Jersey...........Mand atory; uniform use not described.
first and
New Mexico ........ All lodges use slides or films in lectures of
third degrees.
Lecturer.
New York.............No law; optional use; checked by Grand
rial.
monito
to
limited
use
North Dakot a .......Mand atory: Uniform
ed.
requir
Oklah oma ............ Visua l aids advised; not
Orego n. ................ Optio nal for all degrees.
Penns ylvani a ........Prohib ited by Grand Lodge.
Rhode lsland ....... .Slides and robes prohibited since 1898.
wishes.
South Caroli na ..... No law on subject: each lodge may do as it

215

PROCEEDING$ OF THE \ ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

South Dakota .......Color slides mandatory in all degrees.
Tennessee............ .Optional: uniform use of films, charts or slides in
all lectures.
Utah ......................No law on subjects: standard slides, also recorded
music, optional in all degrees.
Vermont ............... No law on subject: standard slides optional.
Virginia................ N<> law on subject: optional use of slides permitted.
Wisconsin ............ Law forbids deviations in lectures: custom and
precedent permit use of slides or charts.
Wyoming .............Optional use of film strips limited to monitorial.

obligations of the order, and no lodge in this jurisdiction shall use
such equipment in any way. nor shall it or any Mason be in possession thereof."
B. Masonic practice:
1. Most other Grand Jurisdictions in the United States are less
restrictive in their use of visual aids than is California.
2. A clear majority of the California lodges replying to our questionnaire believe that present degree practices are adequate and should
be retained without modification except as the Ritual Committee
approves.
3. The area of confllict in California centers in definition and
semantics. What is esoteric and therefore secret? Honest differencies of opinion ex·ist. Frankly, this committee sees no reason
for banning a representation of a sailing ship any more than we
would ban use of an evergreen sprig in the public funeral service.
C. Masonic education:
1. We presently make extensive use of visual aids in all of our degrees e. g. the Bible, the square, the compass, the pillars, the
working tools. Hence extending the use of visual aids would not be
a violation of principle.
2. Visual aids are an important factor in the learning process. This
has been so well established by modern research as to need no
documentation here. The question for us is not, do visual aids
have value, but rather how can they be used within the limits
inherent in our work.
3. The educational methods used should be based not alone on the
desired impressions for the candidate and the convenience of the
officers, bot certainly as much in terms of significant values for the
audience (members and visitors on the side line).
.

2i4

C. Individual responses. Opinions of California members vary as
completely and widely as other Grand Lodge practices. The following quotatiions illustrate the differences which exist.
1. "I personally feel that we have gone steadily backward in the
effectiveness of our degree work, as one after another, all physical
props to assist the memory of the candidate and the pleasure of
the side lines has been prohibited by the Grand Lecturer or other
agency."
2. "We feel that carefully selected slides add to the effectiveness of
the lectures no matter how well given they are. We do not, however, feel that we need any more rules or diets to accomplish this,
but that each lodge be allowed some latitude in providing these
as their capabilities permit."
3. "The entire membership of the Ritual Committee joins me in the
belief that to tamper with the time-honored and time-tested method
of imparting the secrets of Freemasonry to the candidate is to
commit a disservice to Masonry and incalculable harm to our
Institution."

v. CONCLUSIONS:
For purposes of convenience only, we shall group certain facts, clear
to us as a result of our study, under three major categories.
A. Masonic law:
1. The twenty-third landmark is "the secrecy of the institution."
2. A 1908 California Grand Lodge rul:ing reads in part, "It is no
excuse or justification for any that men are eager to break these
laws, or that men have broken them before, or that in other degrees
or orders of American Masonry cipher rituals may be in common
use. Our duty and obligation as Ancient Craft Masons compel
our obedience to these ancient regulations.''
3. In 1938 the Grand Lodge supported the Grand Lecturer's ruling
that, "Any slide, map, chart or picture of any nature, showing in
part or in whole, the secret work of the three degrees of Masonry,
is contrary to the laws of the fraternity and in violation of the

VI. RECOMMENDATIONS:
A. This committee sees no reason for change in the presentation and
lectures of the three degrees as now constituted. Although California's position is conservative, when compared with the law and
practice of other Grand Jurisdictions as they relate to the use of
visual aids in the several degrees, we believe the uniformly high
quality of California work is a tribute to present procedures.
B. Handwork of Masonic craftsmen ought to be viewed with appreciation and recognition within the limits imposed by the landmarks, our
law, and due propriety. We can see a real place in a lodge building
for appropriate physical representations, whether they be a ship
model or painting, murals in lodge halls of carefully selected symbols, or display cases of Masonic relics~ These should not be a part
of any ritual, but would add richness and beauty to the degree environment. Our Memorial Temple is an excellent example of the
potential along these lines.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

C. Masonic education programs built around visual expressions of the
three degrees are possible and would have value in promoting ~th
interest and understanding. These should not be a part of our ntual
but would be designed to supplement the degree experiences even as
the seminars conducted by the Research Lodges.
D. If recommendation C •is accepted, a new committee should be appointed consisting in part of representation from the present Vi~ual
Aids Committee, the Ritual Committee, and the Research Committee
with the limited assignment of developing an appropriate visual
education program for each degree with supporting written or audio
commentary consistent with California standards and objectives.
Representation from the three committees named should assure continuity of information gained this year, strict compliance with ritual
and law, and authentic commentary to make the pictures meaningful.
This materials when approved by Grand Lodge should be available
through the Grand Secretary's Office to assure uniformity throughout the jurisdiction. Their use should be optional by lodges but when
used should be subject to conditions outlined by the committee.
E. The $300 tentatively approved for the work of this committee for
the coming year should be allocated to the new committee if and
when appointed.

REPORT OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONE RS

216

VII. ACKNOWLEDGEMEN TS:
The committee is appreciative of the services performed by the
Office of the Grand Secretary in printing and mailing the two questionnaires. We are also especially grateful to those actively interested members and lodges who have shared with us sometimes diverse but always
interesting points of view. We regret we have not been able to acknowledge more fully their many ideas which have helped us to see this assignment in what we trust has been a balanced perspective.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. ROWINS
Roy E. MAGINNIS

J. TYLER PARKER
EDWARD M. S'ITrz
A. RALPH WOODLAND

Adopted.

217

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Board of Library Commissioners begs leave to submit the
following report:
We have canvassed the situation with regard to the Masonic
memorabilia and the substantial number of books now owned by Grand
Lodge, the space provided for a library and museum in the Masonic
Memorial Temple, the practices of a number of other Grand Lodges
regarding maintenance of libraries and the use made of them, the
problem of suitable furniture and shelving for a library, and cases
for museum items and, so far as we have been able to do so, the needs
of the brethren for library service. We present the following recommendations with, in some cases our reasons for each:
1. The Grand Lodge of California should have a library and museum
and these should be established eventually in the space provided for
them in the Masonic Memorial Temple.
A) In 1957 Grand Lodge adopted a resolution containing the following declaration:
"It is the earnest desire of this Grand Lodge that a vigorous program
for the furtherance of a Grand Lodge Library be carried forward, by
such measures as may be deemed expediant and practical."
B) Space for a library and museum has been specifically mentioned
in various Grand Lodge publications and in soliciting funds for the
building of the temple. We can do no less than keep faith with our
brethren by providing that which has been promised them.
C)The ability of a library to assist brethren to advance in Masonry,
and to spread 1\fasonic light among their fellows, is unquestionable.
Likewise the availability of Masonic relics, old records, jewels, mementoes, aprons, diplomas and other memorabilia helps to preserve the
history of our institution and is of solid value to the student.
In his report in 1956 Grand Master Stewart said:
"It goes without saying that the need for library facilities has
become more apparent with the advent of our active research program.
A library is practically a necessity if we expect to reach the heights to
which our present research program can carry us if properly supplemented with library facilities."
Grand Master Stewart also quoted Brother Everett Houser, chairman of the Research Committee, to the effect that his committee had
been "besieged with requests for books and research material."
Although not presently in position to comply, your Board of Library
Commissioners has also been requested to supply books for Masonic
study.
D) California Masons are finding it necessary to apply to Grand
Lodge libraries in other jurisdictions for books they require in their
work.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

E) Where Grand Lodges maintain active libraries - such is New
York, Iowa and Oregon. to mention only three - Masons make active
use of them. New York alone loaned more than 20,000 books last year:
the Iowa library. started in 1845 with an appropri ation of only $5, is
even more active.
F) The dignity of this Masonic jurisdiction, its extensive membership and the advancem ent of its brethren all require that Californ ia
establish a library and museum for the use of its members. the promotion of Masonic study and the interest of those who may visit our
magni8c ent temple.
2. Grand Lodge should signify to the lodges and brethren its willingness to accept and preserve gifts of books having Masonic interest and
Masonic records and mementoes.
There are many brethren in this jurisdiction who have Masonic
libraries and it is believed that if assured these would be properly cared
for, would arrange for their transfer to the Grand Lodge library. Until
it is possible to occupy the alloted space, the books should be kept, as
at present, in the "Confere nce Room" of the Temple. where they may
have some limited availability for student use, and the mementoes and
records should be stored in the Library- Museum room.
3. When the library goes into regular operation, all books which
are not rarities. or portions of sets. and which can be replaced without
exhorbitant expense. should be made available to Masons all over the
state.
There are several methods by which this can be accomplished.
Your Board of Library Commissioners does not envision a library
which would be a mere reference room for Masons living within a
convenie nt distance but an active, working service to brethren seeking
light no matter how remote their Lodges may be.
4. The library should be put into active operation only when, and
to whatever extent. Grand Lodge may direct but we believe that the
sooner library service is made available to Lodges and brethren in
remote places, even if on a limited basis, the greater will be the benefit.
5. When it becomes appropriate to remove the volumes currently
shelved in the Conference Room to the permanent location. the furniture.
shelving and cases in that space should be of a quality and nature compatible with the dignity and beauty of the Masonic Memorial Temple.
6. We recommend the continuation of the Board of Library Commissioners for the gradual development of a working library and museum
in line with the requirements of Grand Lodge and the demands of the
constituent Lodges and the brethren.
The Board of Library Commissioners wishes to express thanks to
M. W. Bro. Leon 0. Whitsell and the History Committee for the
catalogu ing of the books now on hand; to Wor. Bro. Eugene Hopp and

Wor. Bro. Alexand er Horne for their investigation of libraries maintained by other Grand Lodges and to Wor. Bro. Rudolph Mohr, Jr., for
~
acting as secretary .
to M. W. Lloyd E.
thanks
.We especially desire to express sincere
t Secretar y,
Assistan
the
to
and
Wilson, M. W. Bro. Edward H. Siems
and peradvice
ion,
informat
valuable
for
,
Wor. Bro. Henry Oliphant
sonal help.
Respectfully submitted,
DAVID E. LANE
EUGENE S. HoPP
ALEXANDER HoRNE
RUDOLPH MOHR, JR.
HENNING J. LUEDERS
Adopted .

218

219

PUBLIC SCHOO L FUND
The Grand Master announc ed that the resolution relative to a proposed "Public School Fund," continue d from 1958 as unfinished business. would be a special order of business for Thursda y morning, October 1, at 10:30 a.m.
William E. Rife, Past Master of Lemon Grove Lodge No. 736, in.
troduced the following resolution:
RESOL VED, that the Finance Committee be instructe d to include
in its budget a recommendation that the sum of $2,500.00 for special
public school fmrposes to be expende d upon the order of the Grand
Master, the Grand Treasure r and the Chairma n of the Finance Committee in such amounts and at such times as they may deem proper.
The Grand Master referred the resolution to the Committees on
Policy and General Purposes and on Finance.
At 4:30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 a.m. Wednes day.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1959
At 10:00 a.m., Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of
the morning and afternoon sessions of Tuesday, September 29th, were
read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 110th Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master, or in his
absence the ranking Warden, or in the absence of the Master and
Wardens, the duly elected Representative; each Inspector, provided he
is reported present on the certificate filed with the Committee on Pay of
Members by the Grand Lecturer; Past Grand Masters, Officers of the
Grand Lodge, Chairmen of Committees enumerated in Section 192 of
the California Masonic Code; members of the following committees;
Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes, Grievances, Finance, Credentials, Pay of Members, Charters, By-Laws, Correspondence, Lodge
Financing, and the Code Commission who are actually in attendance at
Grand Lodge.
Compensation of Members from the State of California has been
computed on the basis of twice the one-way first class railroad fare plus
Pullman sleeper when required. Compensation for the representatives
from the State of Hawaii is figured on the basis of the round-trip first
class air rate. No compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity, or where the prescribed compensation
does not exceed $1.00.
Transportation rates have been computed from all points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. The payroll has been checked
with the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on
Credentials, and the amounts required to meet the transportation costs
for the 1959 Conimunication are as follows:

220

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Credentials submits the following report covering the 110th Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
First, we desire to express our appreciation for the assistance and
cooperation given to us by the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand
Secretary and their staffs as well as that of the Building Manager and
the Grand Tiler. Without this cooperation our assignment would have
been more difficult.
We respectfully report:
That of the 686 Chartered Lodges 668 are represented. All 6 of the
lodges under dispensation are represented. The total registration is
made up as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers.................................................... 29
Past Grand Masters.............. --------------------------------------·· 17
Officers and Representatives....................................... .1371
Past Masters and lnsp~tors........................................ 166
Past Masters and Committeemen.................................. 144
Past Masters and Secretaries........................................ 172
Past Masters ··---·--·--·-------------·----------------------·------··-····---- 601
Secretaries ...................................... -------------·--·-------··-····· 74
7
Grand Masters of other jurisdictions............................
1
Grand Secretaries from other jurisdictions..................
Grand Officers and Past Masters of other jurisdiictions (including 6 Past Grand Masters)................ 12
6
Special Guests ................................................................
TOTAL.............................................................. 2600

In addition, there were 262 Master Masons visiting
Grand Lodge ............................................................ 262
GRAND TOTAL ............................................2862
Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES E. SONES
THos. F. MASON
JESSE M. FEW
DoN E. BERRY
MERVIN w. TONKIN
DouGLAs H. MARTIN
WILLIAM T. CoRBUSIBR
EMIL w. TREFTS

221

Grand Lodge Officers..........................................$ 1,081.39
420.80
Past Grand Masters............................................
Inspectors ............................................................ 6,016.86
Committees .......................................................... 1,885.42
Representatives of Lodges.................................. 25,069.10
TOTAL....................................................$34,473.57
Checks will be ready for distribution at the registration desk, Friday
morning, immediately following the election of the Junior Grand
Warden. At this Communication of Grand Lodge, as we have been at
many past Communications, we are indebted to Past Master Louis
Sutter, and to the management of the Crocker-Anglo National Bank, for
making the necessary arrangements so that members may cash their
checks in the temple, at the close of the Grand Lodge session.
Brethren, if you are the Master, or Warden, representing your
Lodge, or the elected representative of your Lodge, the Pay of Members

222

223

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Committee is insisting that you please pick up your mileage check,
thereby saving our Grand .Secretary the extra task of mailing them to
your Lodge.

pose of proper charges and we urge more promptness in proceeding
with them.
In the following trial records we find no prejudicial errors nor miscarriages of justice, and we find the procedure in each to have been
substantially proper and the evidence to have supported the result in
each case:
No. 1477-(Retrial). A member of Park Lodge No. 449. Acquitted
May7, 1959.
No. 1517-(Retrial). A member of Woodbridge Lodge No. 131. Acquitted January 8, 1959.
No. 1558-(Retrial). A member of Amity Lodge No. 370. Expelled
March 6, 1959.
No. 1575-(Retrial). A member of Redlands Lodge No. 300. Expelled
June 1. 1959.
No. 1584-(Retrial). A member of Security Lodge No. 581. Expelled
March 2, 1959.
No. 1590-( Retrial). A member of Oriental Lodge No. 144. Expelled
March 3, 1959.
No. 1591-(Retrial). A member of Bell Lodge No. 483. Suspended
December 4, 1958.
No. 1600-A member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30. Expelled March
7, 1959.
No. 1601-(Retrial). A member of Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481.
Expelled April 6, 1959.
No. 1605-A member of Mizpah Lodge No. 378. Expelled September
8, 1959.
No. 1606-A member of Channel Lodge No. 757. Expelled October
3, 1958.
No. 1608-A member of Lassen Lodge No. 149. Expelled October 14,
1958.
No. 1609-A member of Point Lodge No. 503. Expelled October ,3,
1958.
No. 1610-A member of Oceanside Lodge No. 381. Suspended October 6, 1958.
No. 1611-A member of Guardian Lodge No. 596. Expelled November
7, 1958.
No. 1612-A member of Washington Lodge No. 20. Expelled November 6, 1958.
No. 1613---'A member of Service Lodge No. 594. Suspended November
7, 1958.
No. 1615-A member of El Cerrito Lodge No. 705. Expelled January
6, 1959.
No. 1616-A member of Oroville Lodge No. 103. Expelled February
3, 1959.
No. 1617-A member of Redlands Lodge No. 300. Expelled February
2, 1959.

Respectfully submitted,
KE1TH W. ScHLAEGEL
JOHN V. BACIGALUPI
MATTHEW M. CODON
CHARLES R. RATKOVICH
RoY L. HERNDON
GEORGE C. KouTROUL1s ·
MARTIN R. SORENSEN

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Grievances reports as follows:
The committee has considered 66 trial records of which 38 will be
covered by this omnibus report and the others will be the subjects of
special reports by committee members, covering petitions for restoration, appeals. reversals, and other records which require special consideration.
We again urge those having to do with trials or discipline to read
carefully the Masonic Code and trial manuals.
Copies of charges should be sent in promptly to the Grand Secretary, and it seems advisable to notify the Grand Secretary of the start
of any proceedings for so-called automatic expulsion.
In one record this year it appeared that the Master, after declaring
the expulsion of a member, asked and received the approval of the lodge
by ballot. This was not only unnecessary, but improper, but it did not
prejudice the accused and the expulsion is affirmed in this report.
Restoration of a member suspended by a lodge. and not by action of
Grand Lodge, may be made by the lodge itself and needs no approval
of Grand Lodge. 'In Trial Record No. 1562 there was such a restoration
of a suspended member by the lodge, and inasmuch as the record was
ref erred to us we approve the same.
When an accused Mason is in jail or prison, or otherwise plainly
unable to attend his trial in the lodge. he should be informed of his right
to be represented by counsel and that such counsel need not be an
attorney at law.
There seems to be much unnecessary delay in bringing matters to
trial after charges are filed in some lodges, and also delay in retrying
cases which are reversed by Grand Lodge and remanded to a lodge
for retrial. Although all trials are unpleasant they are necessary to dis-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 1618-A member of Bakersfleld Lodge No. 224. Expelled February
5, 1959.
No. 1619-A member of Mission Lodge No. 169. Expelled February
4, 1959.
No. 1620--A member of Apollo Lodge No. 396. Expelled February
3, 1959.
No. 1621-A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled February
5, 1959.
No. 1622-A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Expelled April
6, 1959.
No. 1624-A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Expelled May
7, 1959.
No. 1625-A member of Normal Heights Lodge No. 632. Expelled
April 6, 1959.
No. 1626-A member of Fairfax Lodge No. 556. Expelled May 7, 1959.
No. 1627-A member of Clovis Lodge No. 417. Expelled May 14, 1959.
No. 1629-An Entered Apprentice of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Suspended June 5, 1959
No. 1630--A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled June 12, 1959.
No. 1631-A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Expelled July 6,
1959.
No. 1635-A member of Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569. Expelled
August 6, 1959.
No. 1636-A member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397. Expelled August
5, 1959.
No. 1637-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421. Expelled July 1.
1959.
No. 1639-A member of an Iowa Lodge. Expelled March 4, 1959.
No. 1640--A member of Elysian Lodge No. 418. Expelled May 7, 1959.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That in each of the trial records above mentioned in
this report the action of the lodge be ratified, affirmed and approved.

TRIAL RECORDS NOS. 1234 AND 1349

224

225

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A member who was expelled in 1950 by Fidelity Lodge No. 120,
and a member who was expelled in 1953 by Seafaring Lodge No. 708,
have each filed petitions for restoration. Both petitions are supported by
letters of recommendation and our committee's investigation indicates
that both petitioners are worthy of restoration.
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That the petitions of a member (Trial Record No.
1234) and of a member (Trial Record No. 1349) be granted and that
each be restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1389
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In addition to the usual matters before the Committee on Grievances
there has been referred to us a resolution presented by the Master and
Wardens and two Past Masters of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, asking
that the restoration to all the rights and privileges of Masonry of a
former member of that lodge, granted at the 1958 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, be rescinded.
Since said member was restored by Grand Lodge last year, he has
been elected to membership in another lodge in San Diego.
We feel that the action requested by this resolution would be
contrary to Masonic law. Our laws provide for the methods and procedure by which a Mason's status as such and his membership in a
lodge may be takep away from him, and are exclusive. To take away his
membership by rescinding a restoration granted to him by Grand Lodge
at a former communication without notice to him or any opportunity to
be heard violates the spirit of our law.
We, therefore, move that the resolution be rejected.
Adopted.

ALBERT F. Ross
RALPH E. HoYT
ELMER

w. HEALD

WILLIAM B. NEELEY
ALBERT

c. WoLLENBERG.

FOLGER EMERSON
RAYMOND H. LEVY

Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1485
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A former member of Normal Heights Lodge No. 632 has again
petitioned for restoration. He was one of the Masons in San Diego
who was expelled in 1956 for violation of the publications ordinance
of Grand Lodge in connection with the Shrine football game programs.
Most of the other expelled members have been restored by Grand
Lodge in previous years but the petition of this member was denied
because we felt that he failed to realize that he had made a mistake.
This year he has written a letter to Grand Lodge in which he humbly
confesses that he was wrong and states that he now sees the error of
his conduct, expresses his regret and asks Grand Lodge to forgive

226

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

him. Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderson concurs that the petitioner
now merits restoration.
. We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That the petition of this member for restoration be
granted and that he be restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1570
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A member of Patterson Lodge No. 488 entered a plea of guilty
to Grand Theft in 1957. He was placed on probation for eight years
and required to make restitution in full. He was not required to serve
any time in jail.
Masonic Charges were preferred against him by the Junior Warden
of Patterson Lodge No. 488 .. To these charges the accused made no
plea either of "guilty" or "not guilty." The Master of the Lodge then
attempted to hold a trial under the provisions of Section 692.1 et seq. of
the California Masonic Code. The record discloses, however, that the
Master failed to comply with the procedure specified in said Sections.
He failed to make a written report as required. He also failed to inake
a finding of guilty and stated that because the accused had entered a
plea of guilty in the Superior Court of Stanislaus County, he could not
make a finding of "not guilty," stating further that the accused had
already · been punished sufficiently and ruled that the accused was to
continue in good standing as a member of the lodge.
In 1958 Grand Lodge reversed the action of the 1Master and the
matter was remanded for a proper trial by Patterson Lodge.
The matter is now again before the Grievance Committee for review.
The record submitted again discloses a complete lack of compliance
with Sections 692.1 to Section 693 C.M.C. The Master did submit a
written report in which he attempts to show that the accused was guilty
of no wrongdoing and closes with_ a suggestion that a short suspension,
with a promise of immediate restoration, should be imposed on the
accused.
·
The second trial, just as the first, fails to comply with the provisions
of the C.M.C.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That the action of the Master be reversed and Trial
Record 1570 be remanded to Patterson Lodge No. 488 for further and
proper proceedings, and that the Grand Master appoint a Trial Master
from some other lodge to conduct said trial.
Adopted.

227

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1599
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A member of Palms Lodge No. 512 was accused in four specifica~
tions of:
1. Wilful negligence and failure to make arrangements for funeral
services for his mother, and allowing her body to reach an advanced
degree of decomposition.
'2. Failure to attend his mother's funeral.
3. Conviction of being drunk and serving of a jail sentence on
July 20, 1958.
4. Drunk arrest and fine on two occasions, October 23, 1957, and
September 14, 1958.
The action of the Master suspending the member was based on
amended specifications. The record shows that neither the original
charges nor the amended charges were ever served on the accused.
Although Sction 707 C.M.C. clearly provides that where service is
not made, or cannot be made, there must be an ex parte trial; the
Master proceeded as though the charges had been served on the accused
and he had failed to plead "Not Guilty" as provided in Section 692.4

C.M.C.
Because of this and other fatal errors in procedure, the case must be
reversed. InasJl1:uch as all the specifications have their origin in pro~
longed and excessive drinking, the committee would suggest that the
charge might be in one specification of habitual public intoxication
bringing discredit on the fraternity and setting forth the several episodes
as overt acts evidencing the same.
Your committee respectfully presents the following resolution:
RESOLVED, ~hat the action of the Master in trial record No. 1599
finding the accused guilty and ordering his suspension be reversed and
the matter remanded to the lodge for trial in accord with the Calif9mia
Masonic Code.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1602
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
By dir~ction of the Master of Selma Lodge No. 277, the Junior
Warden attempted to charge a member of that lodge with adultery and
non~support of his legal wife and children. These charges are not well
drawn and, in view of the conclusion hereinafter stated, should be
amended.
A trial master was appointed, the Master being disqualified by reason
of his having directed the Junior Warden to 6le the charges. However,
after the accused had failed to enter a plea within the proper time, the
Master 6led a report under Section 692.4 Masonic Code based upon a
letter from accused wife, her complaint and the judgment in a separate
maintenance action, and a general statement by accused that he was
responsible for the separation. No real evidence was taken.

228

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

nce as such in MaCour t records in civil cases are not prop er evide
nal trials are prim a
crimi
in
iction
sonic trials, altho ugh judg ment s of conv
trans cript s of testimony
facie evidence of guilt and the prop erly certified
may be used as evidence
in criminal trials in state and federal courts
again st an accu sed in a Maso nic trial.
case and because the
Because of the lack of prop er evidence in this
nic Code was made
Maso
692.4
on
Secti
r
investigation and repo rt unde
of the Trial Mast er, it is
by the Mast er, who was disqualified, inste ad
is recommended that the
our opinion that the case must be reversed. It
ason ic conduct.
un-M
e
alleg
charg es be amen ded to more clearly
:
ution
We offer the following resol
by Selm a Lodge No.
RES OLV ED: That the expulsion of a member
the Lodge for a new
to
277 be rever sed and that the matt er be rema nded
ter appo inted as
Mas
Trial
a
trial on amen ded specifications befo re
prov ided by our laws.
Adop ted.

TRI AL REC ORD NO. 1623

M. of California:
To the Mos t Wor shipf ul Gran d Lodge F. & A. char ged therein with
was
315
No.
e
Lodg
A member of Norw alk
g forth a violation of
unmasonic conduct in one specification settin
ornia, and a plea of
Calif
Section 288a of the Pena l Code of the State of
was sente nced to
sed
accu
h
whic
guilt y to statu tory rape as a result of
probation by the
s'
year
three
to
ition
30 days in the coun ty jail as a cond
es and the pena lty fixed
court. Accused was found guilty of these charg
at expulsion.
d upon accused unde r
The record shows that summons was serve
Section 705 C.M .C.
r
unde
e
notic
as
Section 692.2 C.M .C. as well
have proceeded unde r
Und er this state of the recor d the Mast er could
automatically expelled
Section 692.4 et seq. to dispose of the matt er and
provisions of Section
The
accused. This method was not followed.
trial commission was
a
and
wed
688 and following of C.M .C. were follo
appa rentl y from a
and
trial
the
at
nt
elected. Accused was not prese
guilt y or admi t his guilt.
review of the record did not enter a plea of
be prese nted at the trial,
Thus it was necessary that evidence shou ld
ied copy of the cour t
certif
a
none having been prese nted, not even
of guilt herein and
ng
findi
the
able,
conviction which is readi ly avail
the orde r of expulsion must be set aside.
to follow throu gh
Norw alk Lodge No. 315 must be instr ucted
the C.M .C. Afte r
r
unde
herein with one of the meth ods open to them
iction it will be
conv
of
d
recor
t
obtaining a certified copy of the cour
732 providing
on
Secti
of
s
ision
prov
the
r
a simple matt er to proceed unde
romise with autho rized
for automatic expulsion. Ther e can be no comp
procedure.
the case be rema nded
RES OLV ED. That the trial be reversed and
s.
eding
proce
to Norw alk Lodge No. 315 for furth er
Adop ted.

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

229

TRI AL REC ORD NO. 1628
M. of California:
To the Mos t Wor shipf ul Gran d Lodge F. & A.

lled from all the rights
A member of Ashl ar Lodg e No. 306 was expe
the Mast er of that lodg e
and privileges of Maso nry by announcement of
.
at its state d meeting held Marc h 5, 1959
icted of three counts
The record show s that the accused was conv
imprisonment. Secout
with
ation
prob
of gran d theft and was gran ted
providing for automatic
tion 732 of the Calif ornia Maso nic Code,
expulsion, is there fore not applicable.
wing sections of the
Proc eedin gs unde r Section 692.1. and the follo
of charges and
filing
the
re
requi
ly
Calif ornia Maso nic Code , clear
In this case the
sed.
accu
the
upon
them
of
speci1kations, and service
committee,
Your
ce.
trial recor d does not show such filing or servi
:
therefore, offers the following resolution
of Ashl ar Lodge in
R~SOLVED, That the action of the Mas ter
of Maso nry be
leges
privi
and
s
right
expelling a member from all the
to Ashl ar
nded
be rema
reversed, and that Trial Record No. 1628
Lodg e for prop er proceedings.
Adop ted.

TRI AL REC ORD NO. 1632
M. of California:
To the Mos t Wor shipf ul Gran d Lodge F. c A.

Accu sed was a member of Arca ta Lodg e No. 106.
ce of Filing Judg The record show s that on Marc h 24, 1959, Noti sed in the mann er
accu
ment of Conviction of a Felo ny was given the
however, requires that
prescribed by C.M .C. 732 and 736. Section 732, records of the lodg e
the
in
filed
be
two certified copies of said judg ment
The certificate of certifiprior to said notice oeing given to the accused.
date of Augu st 14, 1959,
cation of the copies of the judg ment bear s the
the notice of Marc h 24
in
demo nstra ting that despite the allegation
had not been filed in the
ment
judg
that in fact the certified copies of the
rend ering said notice
thus
e
notic
said
of
records of the lodg e at the time
ineffective and void.
d allowed by C.M .C.
None thele ss and with in said sixty day perio the accused, which
from
trial
for
732, the trial lodge received a dema nd
dema nd is not included in the trial record.
of said sixty -day
.Accordingly, and on June 1, after the expir ation
es as requ ired
charg
filed
period, the Junior War den of the trial lodge
unde r C.M .C. 733 and 689.
al meeting for election
The Mas ter of the lodg e failed to call the speci
and 694 and failed
693
.C.
C.M
by
ired
of trial commissioners as requ
set for trial or to have
to have commissioners elected or a time and place
charg es as is required
the
the accu sed summoned or serve d with a copy of
byC .M.C . 697-702.
wrot e to the accuser
Inste ad, and after all the aforesaid, the accused
dema nd for trial.
the
of
al
draw
with
g
rizin
(the Junio r War den) autho

230

PROCEEDING S OP THE

Based on this letter, on July 6, 1959, the Master attempted to revert
to C.M.C. 732 and announced the accused automatical ly expelled and
again erroneously alleged that certified copies of the final judgment
of conviction of a felony had been Bled with the lodge. A copy of the
minutes of this meeting declaring "automatic expulsion" was then
sent to the accused.
The procedure herein, in all phases has been fatally defective. The
duty us upon the trial lodge to comply with the procedures set down
by this Grand Lodge, and not hope to perfect irregular procedure by
liberal interpretatio n of rules framed to safeguard against injustices.
Untrue statements relating to filing of certified copies of the judgment
cannot conceal or cure the lack of jurisdiction existant due to the absen~e
of said certified copies.
Further, the trial lodge lost jurisdiction to pronounce "automatic
expulsion" under C.M.C. 732 for the reason that the withdrawal of the
demand for trial was not received until after the sixty-day period had
lapsed. Accordingly. the lodge should have proceeded with trial under
C.M.C. 688 and 689 as required by the decision of the Grand Lodge
in 1958 and reported at C.M.C. 733b.
The lodge must start proceedings again in this case.
Wherefore, we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVE D. That the purported expulsion of a member by Arcata
Lodge No. 106 is reversed and set aside and the lodge is directed to
proceed against him as provided in the Masonic Code.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1633
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A member of Canoga Lodge No. 6H was charged in his lodge with
two specifications of lewd conduct with children, of which he had been
convicted in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County by .which he had
been placed on probation without imprisonment. Strangely the commissioners voted 4 to 3 in favor of a finding of guilt on each specification
but differed on the vote on unmasonic conduct. Lewd acts with minors
is surely unmasonic conduct. Were the procedure in this case correct we
would ask Grand Lodge to supply the finding of unmasonic conduct.
However. in this case nine commissioners were elected to try the
matter. Only seven appeared at the trial and acted. This is permissible
but Masonic law requires that a decision can only be reached by a
majority vote of the number of commissioners elected, (Section 721 j.
Masonic Code). Where the majority number cannot agree there is a
mistrial, or what in civil courts is called "a hung jury." and the case
must be retried. In this case the votes of five commissioners was
necessary to render any judgment. The vote on each specification being
fonr to three, the Master should have declared a mistrial and called a
meeting to elect a new commission.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

231

We there offer the following resolution: ·
Resolved that the purported suspension of a member by Canoga
Lodge No. 611 be reversed and the matter remanded to the lodge with
instruction to elect a new commission to try him on the charges.
Adopted.

ADDITIO NAL TRIAL RECORDS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge. F. & A. M .• of California:
No purpose would be served by the publication in full in the
printed Proceedings of Grand Lodge of the reports of the Committee
on Grievances in the following matters. Said reports were read to
Grand Lodge and adpoted, and copies will be given to all the interested
parties and Lodges.
Therefore, be it resolved that the following reports need not be
printed in full in the Proceedings of Grand Lodge for 1959:
No. 1234-Petit ion for restoration. A member of Fidelity Lodge No.
120. Restoration approved.
No. 1349-Petit ion foi: restoration. A member of Seafaring Lodge No.
708. Restoration approved.
No. 1407-Pet:it ion for restoration. A member of Bixby Knolls Lodge
No. 699. Too late for action this year. Continued to next
Annual Communication.
No. 1465-Petit ion for restoration. A member of East San Diego Lodge
No. 561. Restoration denied.
No. 1483--Petit ion for restoration. A member of Damascus Lodge No.
648. Restoration denied.
No. 1485-Petit ion for restoration. A member of Normal Heights Lodge
No. 632. Restoration approved.
No. 1498-Petit ion for restoration. A member of Lebanon Lodge No.
495. Restoration denied.
No. 1525-(Ret rial). A member of Barstow Lodge No. 682. Findings
of guilt affirmed and penalty raised.
No. 1554-(Ret- rial). A member of Mendocino Lodge No. 179. Lodge
given further time for retrial.
No. 1568-( Retrial). A member of Antioch Lodge No. 175. Lodge relieved from retrying.
No. 1576--( Retrial). A member of Ferndale Lodge No. 193. Lodge
given further time for retrial.
No. 1578-(Ret rial). A member of Richmond Lodge No. 375. Lodge
given further time for retrial.
No. 1595-(Ret rial). A member of Loyalty Lodge No. 529. Lodge
given further time for retrial.
No. 1607-A member of Fellowship Lodge No. 480. Findings of guilt
affirmed and penalty raised.
No. 1614-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. 349. Findings of guilt
affirmed and penalty raised.

232

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. 1634-A member of Mosaic Lodge No. 218. Findings of guilt
affirmed and penalty raised.
No. 1638-A member of Illinois Lodge. Findings of guilt affirmed and
penalty raised.
No. 1641-A member of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Too late for action
this year. Continued to next Annual Communication.
No. 1642-A member of Service Lodge No. 594. Too late for action this
year. Continued to next Annual Communication.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

233

MEMOR IAL SERVIC E
IN MEMoRIA M ...•...•........••.•...•.•..••.••••••.•.••••••.••••••••••••••••••..•••.•.•.•.•••.•••••Nevin

Harold Mueller, Organist

You'LL NEVER WALK ALONE•••••••••••••••.•••••.••••Rodgers and Hammerstein

THRU' THE YEARS.....•.........•.............••.....•.·-······························· Youmans

Austin Mosher, Baritone

TAPS ...••.••.•..•..•.....••••••••••••••••..••••••••••..•••••••••••••••••••••••••...•••••••••••••Constance

Austin, Mosher, Baritone
Harold Mueller, Organist

REPORT OF THE COMMI TTEE ON NECROL OGY
To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
One of the great benefits of Masonry is the friendships it engenders .
We all know that it "causes true friendship to exist among those who
might otherwise have remained at a perpetual distance." There are the
friendships of our own lodges; those we make in our Districts and
Officers' Association, and also those made at the Communications of
Grand Lodge and in its many activities. All of us have enriched lives
through the Lodge associations and we have found strength and peace
in the warmth of its fellowship. We are indeed a "Society of friends and
brothers" and we are all deeply thankful for its blessings.
Among those who come annually to Grand Lodge Communications
there is an eagerness to meet friends we may not have seen during the
year. The warmth of handclaps, the kindly smiles of our friends and
brethren make Grand Lodge Week a session of heartwarm ing joy and
refreshment. However, there is always a measure of sadness in our
rejoicing. Some familiar faces are missing; voices we loved to hear are
stilled forever. The Scythe of Time has cut the brittle thread of life and
the souls of many of our brothers have been launched into eternity and
gathered into the land where their fathers had gone before them. Death
is an inevitable experience for all mankind.
Thomas Gray wrote:
"The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power,
And all that beauty, all that love e'er gave,
Await alike the inevitable hour.
The paths of glory lead but to the grave.
As we might very well expect, a large number of our brothers have
crossed to the land from whose bourne no traveller returns. Your Committee has to report the passing of three hundred seventy-tw o of our
members. Among these are some whom we expected to be with us for
years to come, as well as many who for long years have served faithfully and in the fulness of time have gone to their reward. Included in the
three hundred seventy-tw o are some who have served in Grand Lodge

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE . , ·

and whose names are well known: Harold A. Meyer, a member of the
Charter Committee: Milton Sapiro of the Jurisprudence Committee and
former Grand Orator; Harry F. White, former member of the Endowment Board and long-time member of the Board of Control; Boy C.
Bryan, many years Chairman of the Necrology Committee; John W.
Shenk. member of Jurisprudence Committee; Ralph M. Holden, Inspector of the I 06th District of Grievance Committee; James R. Eubanks
of the Decoto Home.
The losses this year are distributed among two hundred sixty-eight
lodges. Three lodges - South San Francisco #212, Los Banos #312.
and Parnassus #388. each lost five Pastmasters; two lodges - Howard
#37 and Sunnyside #577, each lost fou.r. ten lodges lost three; sixtyeight lodges lost two, while one hundred eighty-seven lodges report
one lost each. The list this year is the longest in recent years, perhaps
for all time.
By special permission the eulogy for one of our most beloved brethren
will now be presented by Brother John W. Baker. a Pastmaster from
the same lodge as our brother.
RoY CASWELL BRYAN

The Most Worshipful Master has graciously permitted me. on behalf of Cahuenga Lodge No. 513, to bring to the attention of this Grand
Lodge the passing of a brother illustrious in Masonry, Brother Roy C.
Bryan.
Brother Roy C. Bryan was born in Texas in 1886. He died in Los
Angeles, California. in June of 1959. He was 73 years old.
Brother Bryan became an Entered Apprentice Mason on October 8.
1923. He became a Fellowcraft on November 12 of 1923. And he became
a Master Mason only a few days later on November 24 of 1923. He
became Master of Cahuenga Lodge No. 513 in 1932. And after service
as Master, for in excess of 7 years he was an Inspector of the district.
In 1951 there was adopted by the Grand Lodge a ritual to be used by
the officers of Grand Lodge. This ritual was written by Roy Bryan.
along with two other fine Masons. And even today at this present
convention of the Grand Lodge that ritual is being used.
But the stature of Roy Bryan in the minds and hearts of his friends
is measured in terms of his strength of morality. his warmth of friendliness. and his simplicity, integrity, and sageness of counselling.
Roy Bryan is the man who for so many years stood before this
Grand Lodge, at the place that I am now standing, and, as head of the
Necrology Committee, told you of the passing of so many of the
brothers. And now Roy Bryan's turn has come.
To his friends . a poet's words may be paraphrased to express their
feelings in his passing: He so lived that when his turn came to join
that innumerable caravan which journeys to that mysterious realm from
whose bourne no traveller returns he went not like a quarry slave at

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

235

night scourged to his dungeon; but sustained and soothed by an unfaltering trust. He approached his God: he approached his grave; like
one who wraps the drapery of his couch about him and lies down to
pleasant dreams.
To Masons, a poet may be paraphrased to express their thinking
on Roy's passing: That when he fell in whirlwind. he went down, as
does a lordly cedar green with boughs goes down, with a great shout
upon the hills. and leaves a lonesome place against the sky.
Our friend Roy Bryan is gone.
HAROLD ADOLPH MEYER

On October 14. 1958, Harold A. Meyer died of a cerebral hemorrhage at Children's Hospital, San Francisco. at the age of fifty-three
years.
Harold Meyer was a native San Franciscan. having been born in
this city and spent most of his life here. He graduated from LickWilmerding High School and the University of San Francisco. He
made work with boys his life work. From 1927 to 1930 he headed the
Mission Branch of San Francisco Boys' Club. In 1930 he went into
private business but in two years returned to the work he loved. He
served with the San Francisco Recreation Department as Director and
Assistant Superintendent. During World War II he served with the
Infantry and in 1947 returned to the San Francisco Boy's Club as its
Executive Director. in which position he continued until the date of
his death.
Harold Meyer was Secretary of the 1952 Grand Jury and also served
as Chairman of the Mayor's Advisory Committee on Juvenile Problems;
as National Chairman of the American Red Cross Water Safety Committee; as a member of the Juvenile Problems Committee. and as a member of the Citizen's Advisory Committee to the Attorney Genera l on
Crime Prevention. Only three weeks before his death he hi:ld been named
by the Juvenile Court Judge to the Juvenile Probation Commission.
Harold Meyer was raised in Mount Davidson Lodge #481 on
March 25, 1940. Afterward serving it as Master. He was also <1 member
of Royal Arch Masonry; California Commandery # 1 Knights Templar,
and of Islam Temple of the Shrine. In Grand Lodge he served for many
years on the Charters Committee having been first appointed in October.
1946, and had been reappointed thereon for the present year.
He was a member of many clubs in San Francisco, including the
Rotary Club.
He is survived by his wife Leonore Larson Meyer to whom our
sincere sympathy goes out.
His chief interest was the welfare of boys and youth. There are no
great economic rewards in this field but there were rich dividends in the
knowledge of boys guided into fine citizenship. In his passing at a com-

236

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

le
parativ ely early age San Franci sco lost a beloved native Son, a valuab
Jost
Lodge
Grand
This
Citizen , and a guide and friend of its boys.
l.
a respect ed, faithfu l member, for whose services we are deeply thankfu
RALPH KILPAT RICK PIERSO N

and
This Grand Lodge lost one of its most valued . most respect ed
Long
the
of
judge
ng
belove d members when Ralph K. Pierson . presidi
giving
Beach Superi or Court, passed away Novem ber 27, 1958 (Thank
Day) at the age of 55 years.
Ralph Pierson was born in Colora do. came to San Pedro in 1923.
and
was gradua ted in 1929 from Southw estern Univer sity Law School
Compbecame
he
1933
In
on.
Compt
in
began private practic e that year
pal
ton City Attorn ey. In 1918 he was appoin ted to Compt on Munici
posia
Beach.
Long
in
Judge
Court
or
Superi
became
1951
in
Bench and
the
tion in which he served until incapa citated by illness, retiring from
Bench only a few days before his death.
In Mason ry Ralph Pierson was in labor most abunda nt. Raised
and bein Ancho r Lodge #273 he served in various offices of his lodge
and
1940
6,
May
on
tor
came its Master . He was appoin ted Inspec
was
he
years
25
For
1952.
ber,
Decem
served in that positio n throug h
Ancho r
Chairm an of the Annua l St. John's Day Breakf ast held by
r 17,
Octobe
nce.
Grieva
on
ittee
Comm
the
to
ted
appoin
Lodge. He was
as
served
He
1952, and served thereon until the date of his death.
1955
28.
r
Octobe
Chairm an of the Comm ittee on Commercialism from
this
to Octobe r 3, 1958, and will long be remem bered by members of
who
those
t
agains
led
he
gn
campai
Grand Lodge for the courag eous
He
would have exploit ed the fair name of Mason for person al gain.
uish
disting
to
mind
fine
a
with
and,
ry
Mason
of
les
believe d in the princip
rcial
betwee n right and wrong , he fearles sly led the fight agains t comme
We
es.
purpos
own
their
interes ts which would have used Mason ry for
name
his
after
Jong
and
work
his
all owe him a debt of gratitu de for
knew
is buried in the archive s of the Grand Lodge and those of us who
ry in
Mason
of
ter
charac
the
,
fathers
our
to
ed
him have been gather
rt
stalwa
a
Califor nia will be finer becaus e of the work he did. He was
among men and Mason s.
e
Ralph was also a membe r of the Scottis h Rite and of El Bekel Templ
.
Church
of the Shrine. He was a lay leader in St. Peter's Episco pal
ced
eviden
was
held
San Pedro. The respect and love in which he was
erectio n
at his funeral , conduc ted in the new Templ e at Compt on, in the
Ancho r
of
s
auspice
the
Under
of which he had been a great force.
Frank
,
Master
Grand
Past
by
ted
conduc
was
Lodge #273. the service
this
to
tribute
pay
to
led
assemb
people
500
than
more
Harwe ll, Jr., and
fellow
his
for
man of many talents who gave of himself so abunda ntly
men.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

237

ing
. Truly, we can say o~ Ralph Pierson that he was alwayi; abound
Lord.
the
in
vain
in
been
not
has
labor
his
that
and
m good works
our
To his widow, Mrs. Marga ret Pierson , and daught er, Patrici a,
dge
knowle
the
by
ted
comfor
be
they
May
thy.
hearts go out in sympa
death,
that he is happy in his Father 's House. where there is "no more
neither shall there be any more pain."
HARRY FINK WHITE

ber
Death came sudden ly to Harry Fink White of Fresno on Decem
Lake
Bass
his
in
ter
dishwa
a
fix
to
trying
while
13, 1958. He collaps ed
born on
cabin and died of a heart attack. He was 79 years of age. He was
was
family
His
.
a raisin farm which is now a part of the City of Fresno
the
with
do
to
much
one of the pionee r families of the area and had
Fresno
d
attende
He
y.
territor
nt
early develo pment of Fresno and adjace
Califo rSchool s and studied electric al engine ering at the Univer sity of
ngWashi
t,
Everet
in
ctor
Contra
cal
Electri
an
was
nia. For five years he
s.
busines
ce
insuran
the
entered
and
Fresno
to
d
returne
he
ton. In 1912
ComWhite
F.
At the time of his death he was a partne r in the Harry
in its
pany with insuran ce offices in the Hotel Fresno and was active
spent
He
.
Fresno
of
City
the
in
manag ement, and had other interes ts
ing of
a. long and ~ctive life in many movem ents promo ting the well-be
in
Home
onal
Nutriti
Fresno
the
sh
establi
to
helped
He
his commu nity.
an
told
He
1922 and continu ed to serve on its Board of Directo rs.
and
intervi ewer. "I am interes ted in taking the beanpo le youngs ters
ia~
Apprec
of
l
"Meda
the
d
n:iaking some.thing of the~;" He was awarde
with
work
his
for
lay
DeMo
of
Order
t1on and Legmn of Honor by the
ry
the Shrine Hospit al for Crippl ed Childre n. He was the first secreta
that
on
ously
continu
served
has
and
1940
in
Board
Draft
of the Fresno
Board.
J:Iarry White 's Mason ic history is one of long and disting uished
as
service. Made a Mason in Fresno Lodge #217 in 1914, he served
He
lodge.
his
its Maste r in 1922. Since 1924 he has been a Truste e of
ttees
has had long service in the Grand Lodge serving on various commi
and
Board,
ment
Endow
'
Homes
the
- the Lodge Financ ing Comm ittee;
Grand
Senior
was
he
1911
In
l.
Contro
of
for many years on the Board
re
Deaco n under Grand Master Lloyd Wilson . In 1917 he had the pleasu
the
for
w.
Warlo
y
Harve
r
Cheste
,
-in-law
brother
his
ting
of nomina
office of Grand Master of Mason s in Califor nia.
ted
Active for many years in Scottis h Rite Mason ry he was corona
1934.
y,
Januar
in
degree
33rd
the
of
ary
Honor
l
as Inspec tor Genera
ing for
An active Shrine r, for twenty -five years he had been arrang
al.
Hospit
Shrine
the
in
hospita lization of childre n from his commu nity
Harry
A man of many interes ts and helpful in all good movements,
will live on in the hearts of the childre n he helped , the City
White
F.

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of which he was so much a part, and his Masonic brethren with whom
he was so closely associated. He has merited his Master's "well done,
good and faithful servant, enter into the joy of thy Lord."

JAMES R1LE.Y EUBANKS

238

MILTON DISRAELI SAPIRO

On December 22. 1958. San Francisco lost a "just and honorable
judge" and the youth of San Francisco a devoted friend when death
came to Judge Milton D . Sapiro. While addressing a group. of Boy
Scouts at a Christmas party on December 13th. he was stncken by
cerebral hemorrhage from which he never recovered. He was 65 years
of age.
Milton Sapiro was born in Oakland, December 28. 1892. He grad~­
ated from the University of California in 1914 and studied law at U. C. s
Boalt Hall School of Law. In May. 1917. he joined the Army and was
in heavy fighting in France during which he was wounded. He was
awarded the "Purple Heart." After the war he returned to San Francisco and engaged in private practice of law until 1944 when he ~as
appointed to the Municipal Bench. He was elevated to the Supenor
Court Bench in 1947 and served until his death. For five years he served
as Juvenile Court Judge and was instrumental in bring in~ about many
changes in the City's Juvenile Department. He was a friend of youth
at all times. spending much time with Boy Scouts and other youth
organizations. The Mayor of San Francisco said "_Ma.?y of the yo~ng
people will be better citizens because of Judge Sap1ro. San Francisco
mourned his passing.
Masonically, Milton Sapiro had been a member of Fidelity Lodge

# 120 since 1921 and was a Past Master of his lodge. In Grand Lodge
he served on the Jurisprudence Committee and had been transferred to
the Grievance Committee prior to his death. He was Grand Orator in
1954-55. appointed by Grand Master Henry Clausen. A member of
Scottish Rite he had been awarded his 33rd degree.
Milton Sapiro was a member of many civic, service, and legal
organizations. The American Legion had been greatly hel~ed by. his
services and he served on the Jewish Welfare Board. He 1s survived
by his wife Edna , and two sons, Warren and Allen. to whom goes our
sympathy.
He was truly a servant of men. and Masonry has gained lustre
through his life. This Grand Lodge has been enriched by his services
and many of us miss the warmth of his kindly smile. In the many
tributes paid to him the people of San Francisco have indeed risen up
to "call him blessed."

239

On January 19. 1959. this Grand Lodge lost one of its truly beloved
members when death came to James R. Eubanks .
Brother Eubanks had been a Mason for over forty years, having
been raised in San Mateo Lodge No. 226 on M arch 21, 1918. He was
a Past Master of his lodge and was a well known member of this Grand
Lodge.
Nearly forty years of Jim's life had been devoted to the service of
elderly people; for twenty-four years. he was superintendent of San
Mateo County Old Peoples' home. On April 3rd. 1941 , he assumed
the duties of superintendent of our Home at Decoto and continued in
that office until his retirement on July 28. 1956. During his superintendency. m;rny advances were made in the care of our elderly brethren at the Home. These have contributed greatly to the physical wellbeing as well as to the morale of the members of the family. Many have
had the sunset years of life made happier and more peaceful by this
kindly man. who understandingly sought their welfare. To those of us
who visited the home. Jim was always a helpful. courteous host, whom
we lea rned to love.
During his time at Decoto. he was honored by his fellowworkers
in Ma sonic Homes by being elected to serve a term as President of the
Masonic Homes Executive Association of the United States. A colleague
said of him , "he was a man of great kindliness and was like a father
to the rest of us."
To his wife. children and grandchildren. we extend our sincerest
sympathy.
We commend him to his Heavenly Father, believing that He who
said "inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my
brethren, ye have done it unto me." has received him into the Kingdom
of the Blessed.
RALPH NEWTON HOLDEN

Ralph N. Holden. a resident of Mount Shasta, passed away on
April 21 . 1959, in his sixtieth year.
Brother Holden was raised in Sisson LodHe #310 in Mount Shasta
City on August 19. I 942 and has been a working member of his lodge
during the intervening years. H e served the lodg e as its Master in 1953
and contin ued to be a support to his brethren. On July 16. 1956 he was
appointed Inspector of District 106. comprising four lodges in Siskiyou
County. Our present Grand Master is a member of a lodge in this district. Brother Holden served in the hardworking Corps of Inspectors
until summoned to the Celestial Lodge above. He was a true and faithful Mason and a loyal member of society.

210

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
JO HN

w. SHENK

C alifornia lost one of its finest legal minds when A ssociate Justice
John W . Shenk o f the California Supreme Court, died at P alo Alto
H ospital on August 3, 1959. He had been stricken by a heart ailment
two days before. H e was eighty-four years of a ge and he and his wife.
who survives him. ha d celebra ted their golden wedding anniversary two
years ago.
Justice Shenk was born in Vermont, studied law at the University of
Michiga n. came to California and was admitted to the California Bar
in Los Angeles in 1903. He served as Deputy City Attorney then as
City Attorney for Los Angeles a nd later served for eleven years as a
Superior Court Judge in Los Angeles County. He was appointed to the
Supreme Court in 1942 by Governor Friend Richardson. He served with
great distinction in that Court up to the time of his death. A s a member
of the Court which ruled the "ham 'n egg" pension scheme of the
initiative ballot in 1948, he became the ta rget of a recall move. The
move failed as civic leaders. jurists and lawyers all over the State
ra llied indignantly to Judge Shenk's defense. H e was the recipient of
many honors incl uding honorary degrees from the University of
Michigan and the University of Southern California.
Justice Shenk was a Past Master of South Pasadena Lodge # 367.
In October, 1943 Grand M as ter Claude M orrison appointed him to the
Jurisprudence Committee and he continued to serve on that Committee
until his death.
His citation from the University of Michigan said in part " ... Schola rly in his opinions. erudite and humane in his review of cases. especially
in the area of Sociological Jurisprudence. He has brought honor to the
contribution of Michigan to bench and ba r." M asonry is proud to have
had John W. Shenk as one of its members and of the contribution he
has made to California. He lived long and served nobly.
THOMAS BENTLEY COPELAND

This Grand Lodge lost another of its faithful members w hen death
ca me to Thomas B. Copeland on August 15, 1959. He was 68 years
o f age.
F or many years he served as Local Superintendent for the Pacific
Gas and Electric Company in the R ed Bluff area. For several years he
has been in the San Francisco offices of that company.
H e was made a Mason in 1920 in Northern Light Lodrie # 190 at
Redding. He later served that lodge as Master. He was appointed
Inspector in 1951 and served for some yea rs in that capacity. In 1950-5 1
he served this Grand Lodge as Senior Grand Deacon. He served on a
special Committee whic h devised the form o f credential which we are
a ll wearin g. In 1951 he was Chairman of a special committee on balloting and devised the ba llots with which we a re a ll furnished and helped

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

241

to end the confusion which often con founded the Grand Lodge when
a ballot became necessary.
In season and out of season Thomas Copeland was a true and trusted
Mason and we a re proud to have known him as a friend and brother.
What shall we more say of the remainder of the three hundred
seventy-two who are no longer with us? Time prevents our reading
their names. A complete list is attached and made a part of this report.
lt contains the names of brethren we have known and loved. Men who
have helped us and spoken kindly, encouraging words on many
occasions. They served their Communities, their Lodges, and their
fellow men, many of them without the inspiration of much public
notice. We honor them for their contributions and will close our report
by paraphrasing a famous passage of scripture
"These all, having labored abundantly, did not finish the
tasks, Since God had provided that their labors, apart
from ours, would not be complete. Wherefore, brethren
seeing we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses,
let us lay aside every weight and the sloth w hich does so
easily beset us, and let us run with perseverance the race
that is set before us ."
We honor them by accepting the tasks they have left behind and
giving to them the full measure of our ability and strength.
ADAM B. MORTEN

Ross K. RoPER
LEONA RD D. BABCOCK
CHARLES C. LovE
Rav ScHNAUER

PAST MASTERS OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
California Lodge No. 1
Ernst Ferdinand Marwedel, died January 26, 1959
Byron Delbert Bigler, died July 1, 1958
Western Star Lodge No. 2
Stanley J ohn Jones, died February 19, 1959
J essie Was hington Carter, died March 15, 1959
Tehama Lodge No. 3
Charles Colby Reeves, P . M., died December 4, 1958
Benicia Lodge No. 5
R obert Clyde Bryce, P. M., died May 22, 1959
Corinthian Lodge No. 9
Williard Frederoc Roberts, died April 8, 1959
La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17
Charles H. Viguie. died J anuary 28, 1959
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19
Charles Bert.ram Pearson, died July 3, 1958
George Washingto Coffman, died October 24, 1958
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
L esslie Eugen e Bailey, died April 15, 1959
Occidental Lodge No. 22
Thomas Edgar Hicks P. M. , d ied March 9, 1959

242

P ROCEEDINGS OF THE

Georgetown Lodge No. 25
Geor ge A. French, died September 16, 1958
El Dorado Lodge No. 26
E dward L ee Morey , died June 30 1959
Trinity Lodge No. 27
'
Albert John F etzer, P . M., d ied November 9 1958
Frederick Christ ian Meckel, .P. M., died Ap;il 10, 1959
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30
Henry F erdinand Kay, die d April 15 1959
San Diego Lodge No. 35
'
L a u rence Orton Culp, P . M ., died May 1, 1959
Howard Lodge No. 37
Albert Ell iot t Brow :i, died August 11 , 1958
Art hu r O'Conner, died December 2. 1958
Charles Lee Noel, died March 16, 1959
Chester Ada m Baumga r tner, die d J u ne 8, 1959
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38
Be r tram Howard Izant, d ied Augu st 25, 1958
Charles Duvault Hinkle, died J a nuar y 25, 1959
Sa nford Maxon Barber , di ed May 28, 1959
Martinez Lodge No. 41
Charles Stanley Job, died October 4. 1958
Fred J. Stewart, died July 20, 1958
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 4'
Garfield Thomas Murra y , died September 28, 1958
Forbestown Lodge No. SO
Roger Robe rt Daley, died January 27, 1959
Union Lodge No. 58
Charles Herbert Mullen P. M., died March 5 1959
Charles Edw ard Hill P. M., died June 29, 19S9
Plumas Lodge No. 60
Leon Lowell Clough, d ied December 31, 1958
Live Oak Lodge No. 61
Frank Kanning Mott P . M., died December 16 1958
Albert Franklin Shulte P . M., died May 22, 19S9
Morning Star Lodge No. 68
S tanley Hurst Wentz, died J anuary 14, 1959
Humboldt Lodge No. 79
John Ar mstrong Sinclair, died September 3 1958
Edward Manley Davis, d ied September 17, i958
Yolo Lodge No. 81
Clarence Fred March, d ied September 28, 1958
Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89
James Mortimer Hapgood, died April 4, 1959
Henry Clay Lodge No. 95
John Anthony Phipps, died August 31, 1958
Clay Lodge No. 101
William Henry Herbeck, d ied August 25, 1958
Charles Kemps ter, died September 4, 1958
Oroville Lodge No. 103
J ohn Sa unders Mardon, d ied J a nuary 9, 1959
Harry Floyd Cauthard, died April 28, 1959
Lexington Lodge No. 104
Robert Earle Tinker, died February 22, 1959
Chico Lodge No. 111
Samuel Kansas Troxel, P . M., died Mar ch 5, 1959
Fidelity Lodge No. 120
Milton Disraeli Sapiro, d ied December 22, 1956

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alamo Lodge No. 122
Herbert Hiram Daley, P . M., died November 6, 1958
Rollin Nelson Foster, P . M., died December 30, 1958
Table Mauntain Lodge No. 124
Albert Ivan Jones, d ied F ebruary 27, 1959
Herman Lodge No. 127
Hans Emil Wa rncke, died September 22, 1958
Henry Harde, died May 2, 1959
Nicolaus Lodge No.129
Char les Monroe Burche ll, die d September 3, 1958
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131
Oliver S. Newman, died April 19, 1959
Sincerity Lodge No. 132
Herbert H olt, d ied Jan uary 8, 1959
Valley Lodge No. 135
W allace Walter W ilson, died Augus t 2. 1958
Oriental Lodge No. 144
Cha rles William Whitney, died August 4, 1958
Lassen Lodge No. 149
Arthur A. Lund, P . M., d ied Octobe r 3, 1958
Charles F . Hersey, P . M ., died June 10, 1959
Woodland Lodge No. 156
Otto Gustave Niem a n, died August 10, 1958
Keystone Lodge No. 161
Wm . Herm an Wa tts, P . M., died June 23, 1959
Joh n Calver t Scoles, P . M., d ied August 13, 1958
Excelsior Lodge No. 166
Benjamin Milford Wood, died October 6, 1958
Ralp h Guild Cu r tis, died April 28, 1959
Alameda Lodge No. 167
Her bert Fran k Harrold, P. M., die d December 12, 1958
Peter Er le Hygelund, P . M., died May 5, 1959
Russian River Lodge No. 181
Milton M. Meredith, d ied September 17, 1958
Keith Lodge No. 187
Cecil Leslie Carlyle, died June 11 , 1959
Marin Lodge No. 191
Russel Ha rvey Ward en , died February 23, 1959
Ferndale Lodge No. 193
Joseph N. D. Hindley , died August 13, 1958
Mountain View Lodge No. 194
Fra nk Mervin Taft, die d June 18, 1959
Buckeye Lodge No. 195
.
Robert Beck Bigelow, P. M., died February 18, 1959
Truckee Lodge No. 200
Frank Lester Rector , d ied December 28, 1958
Silverville Lodge No. 201
Charles B. Phillips, died July 23, 1958
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202
Howard H ouston Arnold, died September 8, 1958
Salinas Lodge No. 204
.
Joseph David Burkley, died November 23, 1958
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206
Albert C avil Maze, died November 15, 1958
Anaheim Lodge No. 207
Henry 0 . Henderson. died December 16, 1958
Rolph W. Seward, died May 12, 1959
King David'• Lodge No. 209.
.
Maurice Foster Dyer, died April 23. 1959

243

244

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

South San Francisco Lodge No. 212
Charles Cl ement Thom as, died January 3, 1959
George Les lie Agos ti, died J a nuary 31 , 1959
Fred Homer Todd, died March 21 , 1959
William J ames Bozios. d ied April 16, 1959
F rederick Ju nke r , died May 5. 1959
William Dewey Brewer. d ied April 9, 1959
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214
Claude Jim Graham. died June 9, 1959
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215
Clarence J . Nobman, P. M., died January 30, 1959
Henry Christian L assen, P. M., died November 26, 1958
Doric Lodge No. 216
Frederick William Stapff, died November 24, 1958
Downey Lodge No. 220
Joh n Al exander Bryson, P . M., died September 9, 1958
Inyo Lodge No. 221
Wallace Ve rne Campbell , died October 10, 1958
Ira _Willi am Uhlmeyer, died February 2, 1959
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224
Fred Edward B a Ides. d ied J uly 16. 1958
Jud son Evert D yer. d ied September 3, 1958
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225
Walter J oseph P e tersen. died October 9, 1958
Euge ne Sa muel i\fay, died J a nuary 19, 1958
San Mateo Lodge No. 226
James Riley Eubanks, died J a nuary 19, 1959
George E vans M u nro. d ied February 18, 1959
Solano Lodge No. 229
Thomas McGuin ncs, died July 18, 1958
Vernon Ha stings Campbell, di ed J anuary 14 1958
'
Janesville Lodge No. 232
Clark C. R ow land. died July 25, 1958
H ope Lodge No. 234
Nelson R. Feirl. died Au rnist 14. 1958
Claude B. H eriot. died March 11 , 1959
Mike Angelo Genetelli. d ied J anuary 1959
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237
Constant ine Dimitirs Cordosh. died May 15, 1959
Colusa Lodge No. 240
James Harrison Roe. died February 23, 1959
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241
Leonard Frank Ha r vey, died Decem ber 14. 1958
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244
Ant hony Doran Childers, died June 22, 1959
Pomona Lodge No. 246
Elihu Grant J ohns on, died July 19. 1958
Da v id Howard Biller, died May 24, 1959
Fresno Lodge No. 247
A lbert Willi a m Car lson. d ied Octobe r 28. 1958
Harr y Fink White died December 13, 1958
Da niel Bradley Hurbut. died December 21, 1958
Alturas Lodge No. 248
R euel Alfred L oi rd, died April 10, 1959
Welcome Lodge No. 255
Leroy Elish a Harla n , died December 24, 1958
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260
F rank J osep h Hyma :-i, rlied October 31, 1958
Tuscan Lodge No. 261
John Homer Forsythe, di ed February 26, 1959
Charles Frank Keith, d ied November 5, 1958

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

.
Durant Lodge No. 268
Kruger Wilhelm Wilkie, P . M., died June 4, 1959
Olive Branch Lodge No. 269
James Joseph Mitchell, died September 3, 1958
Pasadena Lodge No. 272
Guy Emerson Halderman , died February 28, 1959
Anchor Lodge No. 273
Charles Wilfred Musselma n , died Augus t 23, 1958
Ralph Kilpatrick Pierson, died November 30, 1958
Oakdale Lodge No. 27 5
Arthur Lawrence Baker, died March 17, 1959
Charles Newton Gray, died March 3, 1959
Anton Frederick Berthold, died June 19, 1959
Southern California Lodge No. 278
P ercy Vernon Hammon
.
Hanford Lodge No. 279
Alvin Herbert Howell, P. M., died March 30, 1959
Elsinore Lodge No. 289
John Howe Woodford, d ied April 25, 1959
Robert Hamilton Kirkpa trick, P . M., died December 25, 1957
Santa Paula Lodge No. 291
Warren L e Roy King, died May 29, 1958
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292
Clarence Phillip Miller , died September 17, 1958
Orange Grove 'L odge No. 293
Zelvan Robert P a tterson , P . M., died April 15, 1959
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
Edward Crolic, died J uly 17, 1958
John Phillip Brogle. died J anuary 30, 1959
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297
Benjamin Roy Fauger, died January 18, 1959
Albert David Lininger, died February 2, 1959
Liberty Lodge No. 299
Arthur Roy Trogden~ P . M., died.November 23, 1958
Benjamin Edward Rich, P. M ., died May 4, 1959
.
Redlands Lodge No. 300
Martin Frank P ierce, P . M ., died Augus t 7, 1958
Ontario Lodge No. 301
William Edward Nugent, P. M., died June 12, 1959
Porterville Lodge No. 303
George P . Simpson , d ied December 12, 1958
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307
_
Wes ley Dillon Gill, died August 22, 1958
Henry Workman K elle r, died Novembe r 9, 19:>8
Monrovia Lodge No. 308
Clifford E. Emberson, die d April 23, 1959
Harry N. Nelson, died J une 21, 1959
Sisson Lodge No. 310
R alph Newton Holden, died April 21, 1959
Los Banos Lodge No. 312
Rob e rt Grey R eis, died Octobe r 15, 1958
Au gust Grimm, died November 11, 1958
Harold J. Preddy, died A u gust 22, 1958
Lester M. Tully, died F ebruary 11, 1959
Murray Alle n Beeney, died June 23, 1959
Temescal Lodge No. 314
· Milan Wesley Barger, died April 14, 1959
Emanuel Lodge No. 318
Frank H. Watson, P.M., died August 21, 1958
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319
Raymond G. Taylor, P.M., died June 28, 1958

245

246

PROCEEDINGS OF TH E

Alis al Lodge No. 321
Lawrence Ellery Thomas, died October 26, 1958
Alhambra Lodge No. 322
Clare Brayton Whitney, died June 4, 1959
Corona Lodge No. 324
Irwin G . B ead le, P .M., died July 12, 1958
H erman Ellsworth Tabor, P .M., died August 29, 1958
Walte r S cott Grayson, Jr., P .M., died June 6, 1959
Kilauea Lodge No. 330
Herman W. Ludloff, P .M., died January 3, 1959
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331
E lmo Lewis, P .M., died April 24, 1959
San Pedro Lodge No. 332
Wallace F rancis F itzgerald, P .M., died July 7, 1958
Alta Lodge No. 333
J ohn Weier, died March 9, 1959
West Gate Lodge No. 335
Max Lichtenstein, P.M., died June 5, 1959
San Jacinto Lodge No. 338
George A. Brown. died February 5, 1959
Clarence R. Cox, P .M., died November 19, 1958
Fullerton Lodge No. 339
J ohn Re ider Gardiner, died November 20, 1958
OxmtTd Lodge No. 341
Ray Dean Snively, died September 27. 1958
San Fernando Lodge No. 343
David J a mes Gribben, died September 3. 1958
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346
John Chisholm Crooks, P .M., died December 21, 1958
McKinley Lodge No. 347
John De Los Williams, P. M .. died October 27, 1958
San Bernardino Lodge No. 348
Willis Archibald Inman, died September 23. 1958
DeWitt Mitcha m , died May 2, 1959
Palestine Lodge No. 351
Frederick B. Winters. died August 7, 1958
Sunset Lodge No. 352
Arthur Leon Shepphard, d ied October 5, 1958
Mark Alfred Pierce, died April 11 , 1959
Louis Murdock , died April 5, 1959
Mill Valley Lodge No. 356
Walter Muntz, died Decemb er 11, 1958
Golden S tate Lodge No. 358
Clarence Dooley Boaz, P.M .. died August 17, 1958
Loyalton Lodge No. 359
Albert Henderson Hudson, died April 15, 1959
San Francisco Lodge No. 360
Alfred Charles Skaife, P .M., died March 7, 1959
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366
Thomas Edwin Dispennette, died March 30, 1959
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367
Eugen e Julius Gruettner, died September 1, 1958
Dudley W infield Robinson. died September 3, 1958
Unity Lodge No. 368
William Leaaen Jencks, died August 5, 1958
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369
Th omas D. West, died January 20, 1959
Amity Lodge No. 370
Alfred Wilkes, died February 12, 1959

GRAND LODGE O P CALIFORNIA

West Los Angeles Lodge· No. 373
Andrew Edward Diebold, d ied February 19, 1959
Jewel Lodge No. 374
Charles Ernest Anderson, died July 5, 1958
Otto George Freyermuth, died January 19, 1959
Richmond Lodge No. 375
Chalmer C. Munday, died September 18, 1958
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376
William I van Farmer, died February 11, 1959
Artesia Lodge No. 377
J ohn Herman Niemes, died March 28, 1959
Mizpah Lodge No. 378
Archie Allen McConnell, died March 7, 1959
Bartholomew Marchese, died June 25, 1959
Ocea nside Lodge No. 381
Clark Hamilton Morgan, died June 7, 1959
Highland Park Lodge No. 382
Willi am S ims K ienholz, di ed September 20, 1958
El Centro Lodge No. 384
Cicero Benjamin Herring, died September 3, 1958
Willa rd Sewell Sylvester, died November 16, 1958
Dinuba Lodge No. 385
Rufus Vaughan McCray, died J uly 2, 1958
Ambrose Nevin Sharer, died September 25, 1958
Parnassus Lodge No. 388
J ames Evans White, died September l , 1958
Ralph Erling Olstad, d ied September 15, 1958
W illiam Chesley Parker, d ied September 18, 1958
George Baker , died January 3, 1959
Edward Frank Louideck, died April 15, 1959
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389
Charles Daniel Wallace, died December 31 , 1958
Imperial Lodge No. 390
John T urner Rice. died March 5, 1959
East Belt Lodge No. 391
Nash G lau, P.M .. died April 4, 1959
Euge ne Hamar Reid. P.M., died June 25, 1959
West Lake Lodge No. 392
F rancis Mendell Brock, P.M .. died August 4, 1958
Clyde Emory Hopkins, P.M., died November 19, 1958
University Lodge No. 394
John Francis Bissell, P.M., died December 20, 1958
F ayette Carson Stevens, P .M.. died December 27, 1958
University Lodge No. 394
Gerald Henry Brown, P.M., died March 12, 1959
Apollo Lodge No. 396
Charles Buxton Greeley, died November 15. 1958
John Livingston Darms, died January 20, 1959
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403
Albert Barclay Coad, died June 7, 1959
Burbank Lodge No. 406
Howard Jesse Curtis, died September 30, 1958
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408
Ha rold Felix Roberts, died September 15, 1958
Honolulu Lodge No. 409
William Bell, died November 21, 1958
George Lant Baker, died December 7, 1958
Eugene Walker Neal, died January 15, 1959

247

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Perris Lodge No. 411
Theodore Christian Zschokke, died November 29, 1958
Banta Beatty, died May 4, 1959
Calexico Lodge No. 412
Marcus Ward Bates, died January 23, 1959
William Henry L orenz, died April 18, 1959
Arlington Lodge No. 414
Henry Harry Nygren. P .M .. died Nov. 22. 1958
Frank Lanbert Stiff, P .M., died March 20, 1959
Lindsay Lodge No. 416
William John Gardner, P.M., died November 2, 1958
Clovis Lodge No. 417
Milton Homer Jones. died June 6, 1959
Inglewood Lodge No. 421
John Aerick , died January 22, 1959
George William Yates. died June 26, 1959
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422
Walter Horace Moulton. died September 5. 1958
William Edward Keogh, died April 10, 1959
York Lodge No. 423
Donald Theodore Metz, died March 30, 1959
Pittsburg Lodge No. 429
John Alfred Liljegren, P.M., died August 30, 1958
McCloud Lodge No. 430
David Staples Painter . P .M .. died February 11. 1959
Elliott Maynard Smit h, P.M., died June 20. 1959
Fairmount Lodge No. 435
Elmer Marion Webster, P .M., died October 29, 1958
Claremont Lodge No. 436
Earle Forte Jones, died September 6. 1958
Stuart Luther Peck. died January 10. 1959
William Lewis Smith, died May 30, 1959
Tyrian Lodge No. 439
Thos. True Wiggin, died January 15, 1959
Blackmer Lodge No. 442
Oscar Emanuel Hanson, P.M .. died July 26, 1958
Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448
Gustof Albert Engman, died July 15, 1958
Park Lodge No. 449
Alfred Goodwin Bierma, died September 2, 1958
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450
Harry J . Ordelmundt, died April 15, 1959
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452
Charles Foster Dennison, P.M., died February 3, 1959
Bethlehem Lodge No. 453
Robert George Lauer, died August 21, 1958
Goldest West Lodge No. 455
Morten Holm, died March 28, 1959
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458
Collier V. Wasley, died December 16, 1958
Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463
Ross Finley Mills, P .M., died August 25, 1958
Orlo Omer Styles, died November 28. 1958
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464
Harry L ivingston Wintersgill, died May 20, 1959
Center Lodge No. 465
Charles Walter Manley, P.M., died December 13. 1958
Marion Albertus Long, P.M., died January 28, 1959

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Libertas Lodge No. 466
Frank Adelbert Easton, P.M., died October 9, 1958
Rockridge Lodge No. 468
William Claus Juergens, P.M., died September 7, 1958
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469
Herbert Worsham, P.M., died May 31, 1959
Lincoln Lodge No. 470
Jesse M. Levy, Jr., P.M., died February 4, 1959
Delta Lodge No. 471
George William Lytle, P.M., died March 6, 1959
Maui Lodge No. 472
Albert Louis Claytor, died June 27, 1959
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479
William Merritt Wiley, P.M., died November 26, 1958
Albert Edward Bluett, P.M., died April 25, 1959
John Ross Kennedy, P.M., died May 18, 1959
Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481
Harold Adolph Meyer, died October 14, 1958
Hugh Edgar Oliphant, died June 3, 1959
Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482
John Porter Haynor, died March 14, 1959
Harry George Keiper, died August 30, 1958
Bell Lodge No. 483
Francis William Pearce, died December 21, 1958
LeRoy Franklin Slocumb, died September 21, 1958
Albert Pike Lodge No. 484
Frank Mueller Hudson, died August 5, 1958
John Stephen MacPhee, died April 23, 1959
Caledonia Lodge No. 486
James Henry Thornber, died March 3, 1959
Vallejo Lodge No. 487
Clarence Marion Crabtree, P .M., died April 2, 1959
East Bay Lodge No. 489
Milton George Horgan, died December 21, 1958
Woodstock Lodge No. 491
Clark Kier Gill, P.M., died July 30, 1958
Charles L eslie Wilhelm, P.M., died December 5, 1958
Garvanza Lodge No. 492
Herbert Hu ghes Cox, P.M., died April 7, 1959
Atascadero Lodge No. 493
Hugo Eugene Anderson, died April 23, 1959
Lebanon Lodge No. 495
Harold Siegfried Stein, died March 25, 1959
Capital City Lodge No. 499
Eugene Victor Bicker, P.M., died October 1, 1958
Benjamin Welcome Hathaway, P .M., died April 19, 1959
Point Lodge No. 503
Cyrus Martin Nielsen, died August 7, 1958
John Charles Pearson, died June 8, 1959
El Segundo Lodge No. 507
Edward Glenn Smyth, P.M., died June 5, 1959
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509
L eo Irvin Boelter, P.M., died August 26, 1958
Cupertino Lodge No. 510
Harry Ellsworth Smith, died January 5, 1959
Cahuenga Lodge No. 513
Roy Caswell Bryan, died June 13, 1959
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515
Fred Stadtmiller Taube, died May 22, 1959

249

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

La Jolla Lodge No. SIB
E lmer Fernstrom, died September 17, 1958
Euclid Lodge No. Sl9
Jam es Thomas Montano, P.M., died October 5, 1958
Bay City Lodge No. S26
J erome Dohrman Nossen, died ......................
Beverly Hills Lodge No. S28
Harry Edward Werner, died January 31, 1959
Loyalty Lodge No. S29
Jack Simmons, P .M .. died September 26, 1958
Eugene M. Rosen, P .M., died October 10, 1958
Azure Lodge No. S33
Harry Vernon Williams, P.M., died July 26, 1958
Utopia Lodge No. S37
Harry Benjamin Farlow, died September 2, 1958
Belvedere Lodge No. S39
Lynly Averill Hartford, died February 20, 1959
Queen Beach Lodge No. S40
Albert Omar Williams, died November 20, 1958
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. S41
Robert Kenneth Blanchard. died June 17, 1959
North Hollywood Lodge No. S42
Frederick Augustus Timbers, P .M., died August 6, 195R
Glendale Lodge No. S44
Ralph Aurelius Buck, died June 16, 1959
Jonathan Lodge No. S4S
Perry Martin Spencer, died August 4, 1958
Arcadia Lodge No. S47
Elmer Edward Westerhouse, died December 13, 1958
Seaport Lodge No. SSO
Edward Vincent Lemos, died March 10, 1959
Lakeshore Lodge No. SSI
Walter Dale Ford, died July 6, 1958
Jesse Edward Sawyer, died January 21, 1959
Semper Virens Lodge No. SS2
Clarence Arthur Trowbridg e, died J uly 5. 1958
Thaddeus Joseph Douarin, died August 17, 1958
Educator Lodge No. SS4
Peter Leon Taix, died August 11, 1958
Hermosa Lodge No. SS7
Albert Lyman Bailey, died May 21, 1959
Point Firmin Lodge No. SSS
Montgomery Phister, died December 25, 1958
Pyramid Lodge No. S62
Edwin Jerome Bitzer, P .M., September 12, 1958
South Park Lodge No. 563
Thomas Adam Carmichael, died July 10, 1958
Foothill Lodge No. S64
Robert Ladley T aylor, P.M., died June 6, 1959
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569
Charles William Veale, died November 19, 1958
James Madison Lodge No. S72
Claude Merril Barnard, P. M., died January 14, 1959
Sunnyside Lodge No. 577
Clarence Greely Hustler, P.M., d ied October 6, 1958
Thomas Sylvester Beadle, P.M., died November 10, 1958
Adolph Randolph Greaser , P.M., died J a nuary 17, 1959
Merle Raymond Helbach, P.M .. died May 7, 1958
Rialto Lodge No. 582
Atha A. Richie, P.M., died Nove mber 14, 1958

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

Wasco Lodge No. SB3
John Hubert Fuller, Sr., P.M., died September 1, 1958
Robert Stephen Miller, P.M., died November 24, 1958
Harding Lodge No. S84
William Hiram Er rett, died Aprll 11, 1959
Manchester Lodge No. SBS
William Clarence Baud, P .M., died March 17, 1959
Garden Grove Lodge No. 586
Leonard William Schauer, died December 19, 1958
Compass Lodge No. S90
Alonzo Lloyd H ickson, died October 10, 1958
W illiam Everett May, died April 26, 1959
Escalon Lodge No. 591
Dewey Henson, died July 4, 1958
Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595
Ronald Herman Brandt, d ied March 8, 1959
Guardian Lodge No. 596
Arthur Wilford Morgan, died July 19, 1958
Jubilee Lodge No. 604
Elmo Nelson Owen, died J une 17, 1959
Granada Lodge No. 608
Charles Christopher Sau tter, died November 6, 1958
Temple City Lodge No. 612
Herbert Martin Tellkamp, P. M .. died May 11, 1959
Three Pillars Lodge No. 613
J esse Bryan James, die d August 7, 1958
Robert Arthur Gilmore, died December 18, 1958
Larchmont Lodge No. 614
J ohn W. Tapley, died July 26, 1958
Hemet Lodge No. 615
Edwin Carl Gustafson, d ied March 8, 1959
Big Bear Lodge No. 617
W illiam Edwin Knickerbocker. died September 15, 1958
Southland L odge No. 618
Donald Hawthorne Wilkins, died April 22, 1959
Atwater Lodge No. 622
John Abrams Seargeant, P. M., died July 2, 1958
Truth Lodge No. 628
William Henry Lallier, died October 18, 1958
John Marshall Lodge No. 636
Clarence Walter Reid, died January 29, 1959
Indian Rock Lodge No. 638
Wallace Theodore Master s, died January 13, 1959
Composite Lodge No. 639
William Herman Schrey, P. M., died November 28, 1958
Veritas Lodge No. 640
Wesley Byron Baker. died December 14, 1958
La Cumbre L odge No. 6t2
Melvin Edward Bowman, died May 9, 1959
Alta Loma Lodge No. 643
Cecil Harold Thompson, P. M .. die d February 12, 1959
Metropolitan Lodge No. 646
H arry Paul Stout, September 21 , 1958
William Ira Shotwell, died May 4, 1959
Damascus Lodge No. 648
Frank Mathew Graf, died February 1, 1959
La Brea Lodge No. 650
Charles Fincher Laverty, died February 23, 1959
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662
Tracey Stanley Cox, died March 31. 1959
Forrest Willard Kirby, died January 29, 1959

251

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ojai Lodge No. 663

Howard Egile Porter, died December 11 1958
'

Clarence Emery Burleigh, died January 20, 1959

Carmel Lodge No. 680

Gordon Caryl Browne, died September 25 1958

Albany Lodge No. 686

'

Louis Marius Miller, P. M.. died June 15, 1959
Cletus Kay Lockwood, P. M., died December 5, 1958

Meudell Lodge No. 695

Dewey Albert Horton, Sr., died October 1, 1958

Rosemead Lodge No. 702

Gearge Irving Springsteen, died January 17 1959

Polaris Lodge No. 730

253

IN GRAND LODGE

Arthur J. Koenigstein, died May 10, 1959

Greenleaf Lodge No. 670
Altadena Lodge No. 678

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

'

Jack George Switzer, died February 10, 1959

Lawndale Lodge No. 753

Howard Houston Arnold, died September 8, 1958
Wm. Rhodes Hervey Lodge No. 767
Clyde E. Hopkins, P. M., died November 19 1958
'
Avenal Lodge No. 772
Robert Lee Abell, died November 21 1958
'
Oak Plains Lodge No. 789
Robert Lee Wade, died February 17 1959
'
So. Calif. Research
Ralph K. Pierson (P. M. Anchor #273), died November 27, 1958
Ho:vard Houston Arnold (P. M. Pentalpha #202), died September 1958
No. Cahf. Research
Wa1Jace Theodore Masters (P. M. Indian Rock #638), died Jan. 13, 1959
At 11 :35 a.m., Grand Lodge was called off until I 0:00 a.m.. Thursday.

MORNING SESSION-THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1959
At 10:00 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The
minutes of the morning session of Wednesday, September 30th, were
read and approved.

The special order of business covering ''Public School
Fund" was the first item considered. See report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Several items reported on by the Committee on
Grievances are listed under Wednesday business for conveniences of reference.

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON FINANCE
To T he Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
In accordance with the requirement of our Reg ulations, an audit
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1959 has been made by the firm of
Skinner and Hammond. Certified Public Accountants. of all accounts
of Grand Lodge, the Masonic H omes, and the Memorial Temple. Your
Committee has examined these audit reports and it is our opinion that
they correctly present the financial condition of Grand Lodge, the
Homes. and the Temple Corporation.
The audit shows total revenue for the support of Grand Lodge of
$383,386. 17, and expenses and appropriations of $340,496.12. lea ving
a balance of unexpended revenue of $42,890.05, which has been transferred to Capital Account.
It s hould be noted, however. that a substantial portion of th is surplus income is represented by the unexpended budget appropriation for
Employees Retirement Pension Plan, which must be re-appropriate d
in the current fiscal year, as will be explained further in our report.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT
We have examined the Grand Treasurer's Report which was referred to this Committee and find all financial items to be in accord
with the audit. We recommend approval.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT
That portion of the Grand Secretary's Report was re ferred to this
Committee in which he recommended that certain Lodges under Dispensation be not required to pay the Per Capita. We recommend
approval.
EXCESS EXPENDITURES OVER BUDGETED AMOUNTS
There has been referred to this Committee that portion of the Grand
Master's Message in w hich he reported approval by him of expenditures in excess of budgeted items for the last fiscal year totaling $5,-

254

255

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

382,54. Your Committee makes every effort to aticipate all financial
needs in setting up the fiscal year budget in order to avoid the necessity for approval of excess expenditures. We are pleased to report
that the great majority of budgeted appropriations are not exceeded:
but when emergency needs do arise they are submitted to the Grand
Master and not paid until approved by him. We recommend that the
action of the Grand Master in the above be approved by Grand Lodge.

fiscal year ending June 30, 1960. the proceeds to be paid to the Trustees
of the Masonic Homes.

CORRESPONDENCE COMMITTEE-"CAL!FORNIA FREEMASON ..

The audit report shows that the operations of our official publication, "California Freemason," in the last fiscal year resulted in an
excess of income over expenses of $3,457.55, which was credited to
Capital Account.
We recommend that Grand Lodge approve the appropriation of
the above amount to be paid into "California Freemason Reserve" which
was established by Grand Lodge at the last annual Communication on
the recommendation of this Committee. This reserve is listed in the
balance sheet of the auditors' report and was created for the purpose
of setting up a reserve against subscriptions to the magazine paid in
advance. Your Committee is of the opinion that we should continue
to build this reserve until it at least equals the amount of advance subscriptions for which we are liable.
MASONIC HOMES

In the last annual report of the Finance Committee reference was
made to the building program at Decato under which an extensive enlargement is being made to the hospital facilities.
The Trustees of the Homes estimate a decrease in income of $60.000.00 per year, beginning this fiscal year, from capital investments
which will be liquidated to cover building costs.
In addition to this loss of income, operating expenses at the Homes
have increased in excess of $50,000.00 annually, largely due to a substantially higher wage scale.
In addition, the Homes are now paying the annual Endowment
Board expense: they are praying Grand Lodge annually for their proportionate share of utilities and maintenance expense in the Memorial
Temple; they are underwriting the expense of the delegates' visit to
Decoto during Grand Lodge Week. All these are items of expense not
borne by the Homes up until two years ago and total in excess of
$30,000.00.
As the result of our conversations with the Trustees. an examination of their report and the financial audit, we find that it will be necessary to increase the per capita for the Homes from 50c to $1.00 to
support their operating budget for the current fiscal year.
We, therefore. offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the sum of $1.00 per capita be levied for the

RETIREMENT PENSION PLAN

A previously noted, no disbursement was made during the last fiscal year of the appropriations for Retirement Pension Plan for direct
employees of Grand Lodge and those of its agencies, such as the University Clubhouses and Employment Bureaus. The Homes Board
adopted the amendment to the Plan necessary to include the above employees but we have been waiting for a communication from the I nternal Revenue Service that the P lan as amended would qualify under
the Internal Revenue Code.
Such a communication has now been received and we are ready to
proceed with the program to place the above mentiond employees
under the Retirement Pension Plan.
We are advised by the firm of Actuarial Consultants retained by
Grand Lodge that the approximate sum of $41,000.00 will be required
for direct employees of Grand Lodge to cover all costs from January
1, 1956, the established effective date. to the end of the current fiscal
year.
There has been previously set aside, or appropriated but not expended, approximately $31,000.00 for this purpose. We .recommend
that Grand Lodge approval now be given to the appropria tion from
Capital Account of $31.000.00 to be transferred to the current Administrative and Office Expense budget and paid out as required. We a.re
budgeting $10,000.00 which. together with the above appropriation,
will bring the total to the estimated amount needed.
Relative to employees of Grand Lodge agencies. applications have
been filed to bring certain of these employees under the Pension Plan .
Our Actuaries advise us that approximately $11,300.00 will be required
to cover these costs from January 1, 1959, the effective date, to the
end of the current fiscal year. There has been previously appropriated
for this purpose but not expended approximately $11,300.00. Your
Committee now recommends that Grand Lodge approval be given to
appropriation from Capital Account of $11.300.00 to be transferred to
the current Administrative and Office Expense budget and paid out
as required for employees of these Grand Lodge agencies.
For the future we anticipate that Pension Plan costs for both groups
of employees will be ascertained on an annual fiscal year basis and
the financial requirements of the program be currently met by a budget
appropriation each year.
BUDGET

In presenting the budget for the current fiscal year ending June 30,
1960, special attention is directed to several items.

256

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MEMORIAL TEMPLE-CAMPAIGN FOR VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS

When the plans to secure voluntary contributions to the Building
Fund of the Memorial Temple were first presented to and approved
by Grand Lodge, the Temple Building Committee made a pledge that
every dollar contributed would go into the construction of the Temple.
Grand Lodge backed up this pledge by agreeing to underwrite all
costs of the campaign. Yau will be interested in knowing that, as of
the end of the last fiscal year, Grand Lodge has paid out of income
for this purpose over a period of six years the total sum of $185,584.92.
Incidentally. while on this point, you will be interested in knowing that, in addition to the above sum, Grand Lodge has appropriated
out of Capital Funds in the same period the total sum of $444,217.87
toward the construction cost of the Temple.
Yau are familiar with the "Open Book" now in preparation in
which will be listed the names of all voluntary contributors. Your
Committee is in agreement with the Trustees of the Temple that the
cost ~f this b~o~ is a proper charge against campaign expense and
have included 1t m the budgeted appropriation of $22,000.00 for Campaign Expense in the current year. We hope to be able to substantially
reduce this appropriation next year.
BUDGET 1959-1960
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries "·······················--·----·--·······--····--·······------···--~----··---·$ 70,000.00
Grand Lodge OfficesT emple Operation and Maintenance Expense...... .. 18,000.00
3,000.00
Audit ................................................................................ ..
Grand Treasurer.............................................................. ..
250.00
4,500.00
Postage and Express......................................................... .
3,600.00
Telephone and Telegraph ................................................ ..
2,500.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes..................... .
Investment Counsel............................................................
500.00
Retirement Pension PlanGrand Lodge Office Employees.............................. .. 10.000.00
Retirement Pension Plan1,000.00
Employees Other Agencies.................................... ..
TOT AL .................................................................... $113,350.00
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication.................................................... $ 13,000.00
Conferences ......................................................................
5,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense............................
7,500.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler......................................
750.00
Grand Master's Travel. Secretarial,
and Miscellaneous Expense...................................... 10,000.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges........................................
5,000.00

257

5,000.00
Grand Master's Portrait Expense ....................................
Representatives' Mileage ................................................ .. 36,000.00
Printing .............................................................................. 23,500.00
Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer.......................................................... $
2,000.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery.......................... ..
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense...................... 13,500.00
900.00
Retirement Pay ..................................................................
3,000.00
Veteran Buttons ................................................................
3,500.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous ............................................. .
Insurance:
8,500.00
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges .................. ..
1,250.00
Miscellaneous ............................................................

TOTAL .....................................................................$139,000.00
APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee.......................................................... $ 3,000.00
1,250.00
Board of Control. ...............................................................
750.00
Charters Committee..........................................................
1,500.00
Columbia Temple Committee........................................... .
1,200.00
Constitution Observance Committee................................
2,000.00
Correspondence Committee-"California Freemason" ..
750.00
De Malay Committee....................................................... .
11,500.00
Employment Bureaus...................................................... ..
Endowment Board.............................................................. 14,000.00
750.00
History Committee ........................................................... .
2,000.00
Committee op Research..................................................... .
2,850.00
Lodge Financing Committee........................................... .
22,000.00
.
Memorial Temple Campaign Expense .......................... ..
2,000.00
Public Schools Scholarship Award..................................
2,000.00
Committee on Public Schools. .......................................... .
800.00
Boards of Relief-Reimbursement for Sojourners........ ..
1,000.00
Committee on Commercialism......................................... .
250.00
Sojourners Committee....................................................... .
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley ····---·-··------···-··----··············--·····--·--··--·-----------19,l 00.00
Los Angel~................................................................ 16,500.00
Code Commission..............................................................
150.00
Grand Lodge Legal Expense............................................
4,000.00
Investment Committee ......................................................
500.00
Relief Fund-Grand Master............................................
750.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries..................................
250.00
Committee on Visual Aids................................................
370.00
TOTAL. ..................................................................... $111,220.00

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECAPITULATION:
Administrative and Oftke. ................................................. $113,350.00
General Expense................................................................ 139,000.00
Appropriations .................................................................. 111,220.00

Memorial Temple, the low total per capita was $1.00 in 1946, with
the high jn 1952 and 1953 of $2.90. The average for the period was
$1.75.
For the last fiscal year the total per capita was $2.75. This is made
up of $1.00 for the Memorial Temple, 50c for the Homes, and $1.25
for the expenses of Grand Lodge. Deducting the $1.00 for the Memorial Temple, we find that the remainder of $1.75 is only 20c above the
30 year average of $1.55 for ordinary expenses, or approximately 13%.
Another striking comparison can be made with the year 1933. In
that year the total per capita was $1.75, all for regular expenses of
the Homes and Grand Lodge. Today, 26 years later, in spite of the
40 cent dollar and much higher administrative and operating expense,
the per capita for such purposes is the same-$1.75. This has been
possible, of course, because the number of members for whom the
per capita is paid has increased in that 26-year period from 140,000 to
235,000.
The increased revenue from membership growth fortunately has
matched the increase in cost of operation, with something over for
buildmg the reserves of Grand Lodge.
However, in the new fiscal year the Homes, for the reasons given,
will require, and you have voted an increase in the per capita from 50c
to $1.00 to support their operating budget.
In endeavoring to hold down your per capita tax to the lowest possible figure, your Committee gave considerable thought and study to
the present and future position of the Reserves of Grand Lodge and
the necessity, we feel, of not only maintalning them, but gradually
adding to them. We point out that these reserves are invested and
earning income, without which your per capita would be proportionately higher. It is simply good business to maintain this Grand Lodge
on a sound financial base.
Our reserves have been built largely from surplus income and can
be kept intact and increased only if we spend less than we take in. We
assume that this is an aim which meets with your approval.
As noted, the budget will allow for a small surplus to add to
Grand Lodge reserves, but only if all concerned stay within budgeted
appropriations, and no emergency needs arise.
The obvious is sometimes overlooked. The most likely prospect of
a future reduction in per capita tax is in the elimination of the $1.00
per member paid to the Memorial Temple Corporation. It bears repeating that the earlier the debt on the Temple is liquidated, the earlier
can the Lodges be relieved of this levy. That day can be brought closer
with a renewed determination that every Lodge in this jurisdiction shall
achieve the Merit Roll.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution:

GRAND TOTAL .................................................... $363,570.00
ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE:
Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees, etc.........................$317,111.00
Income from Investments, Interest.................................... 30,000.00
Payment from Masonic HomesEndowment Board Expense...................................... 14,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes-Secretarial and Other Services................................
20,000.00
TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME............................$381,111.00
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITEMS ............................................ 363,570.00
ESTIMATED SURPLUS...................................... $ 17,541.00
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS:
One Typewriter.................................................................. $
Filing Cabinets..................................................................
One Electric Typewriter....................................................
Steel Counters and Tables................................................
Reserve for Future Requirements..................................... .

150.00
250.00
550.00
1,050.00
500.00

TOTAL. .•...........................................................~.......$

2,500.00

PER CAPITA
Your Committee has made an analysis of annual per capita for the
last 30 years covering the period 1929-1959. You will be interested
in some comments on the figures disclosed.
For the period covered, and referring only to that portion of
the annual per capita paid for the support of the ordinary activities
of Grand Lodge and the Homes, the low was 85c in 1946 and 1947,
with the high in 1949 and 1950 of $1.95. The average for the 30 years
was $1.55.
It should be noted that the 85c low in 1946-47 included nothing
for the Homes, but was entirely for support of Grand Lodge. The
Homes had been able to build surplus during the preceding war years
due ·to the restricted supply of building and other materials available
for purchase.
Including the additional per capita voted from time to time for
such special purposes as the University Clubhouses, our Centennial,
the George Washington Masonic Memorial, and in recent years, our

259

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

260

RESOLVED: That for the purpose of paying the expenses of
Grand Lodge, a per capita aggregation $3.25 be levied for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1960, divided as follows:
Constitutional Per Capita for
California Masonic Memorial Temple..................................:.....$1.00
Masonic Homes.................................................................................... 1.00
Constitutional Per Capita for Grand Lodge...................................... .50
Additional Per Capita for Grand Lodge....................................~....... .75

TOTAL PER CAPITA $3.25

ONE QUARTER -

BUDGET
JULY 1, 1960 -

SEPTEMBER 30, 1960

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE
Salaries .............~ .............................................................. $17,500.00
Grand Lodge Offices - Temple Operation and
Maintenance Expense................................................ 4,500.00
75.00
Grand Treasurer............................................................ ..
Postage and Express ...................................................... .. 1.125.00
900.00
Telephone and Telegraph ............................................ ..
625.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes................... .
TOTAL.....................................................$24,725.00

GENERAL EXPENSE
Annual Communication ............:.................. - .................$ 5,200.00
600.00
Conferences ................................................................... .
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense. ....................... 2,500.00
Printing .......................................................................... .. 4,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
150.00
Grand Lecturer ....................................................
500.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery....................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors' Conference
and Travel Expense.................................... .. 1,500.00
225.00
Retirement Pay................................................................
250.00
Veteran Buttons ..............................................................
Supplies and Miscellaneous .......................................... .. 1,000.00
Insurance ....................................................................... . 1,000.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

261

APPROPRIATIONS
Relief Fund-Grand Master......................... ,................ $ 300.00
Activities Committee........................................................ 2,000.00
300.00
Board of Control..............................................................
175.00
Charters Committee ........................................................
375.00
Columbia Temple Committee..........................................
200.00
Constitution Observance Committee..............................
100.00
De Malay Committee......................................................
Endowment Board .......................................................... 2,000.00
75.00
History Committee ..........................................................
500.00
Committee on Research..................................................
400.00
Lodge Financing Committee..........................................
Memorial Temple Campaign Expense.......................... 2,000.00
Public Schools Scholarship Award................................ 2,000.00
250.00
Committee on Public Schools..........................................
300.00
Committee on Commercialism........................................
50.00
Code Commission ............................................................
125.00
Investment Committee ....................................................
75.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries................................
50.00
Sojourners Committee ....................................................
TOT AL.................................................... $11,275.00

RECAPITULATION
Administrative and Office.............................................. $24,725.00
General Expense.............................................................. 16,925.00
Appropriations ................................................................ 11,275.00
GRAND TOT AL .................................. $52,925.00

Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
PAUL F. BALCK
ALFRED H. N1coLL
ATWILL MORGAN
FRED M. CLARK
GEORGE W. SCHERER, JR.
IRVING M. SMITH

TOTAL................................- .................. $16,925.00
The several sections of the budget were adopted individually, fol~
lowing which the report was adopted as a whole.

262

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REVOLVING LOAN FUND
THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE:
There has been referred to the .Pinance Committee the resolution
which would add a new Section No. 288 to our Code under which a
per capita of indeterminate amount would be levied on the Lodges to
create a "Revolving Fund for Loans to Lodges for Building Purposes."
Your Committee believes that it would be unwise for Grand Lodge
to incorporate such a plan into our Regulations.
Recognizing the good motive behind the proposal. we are of the
opinion, nevertheless, that it is outside the scope of Grand Lodge to go
into the loan business. It should be noted that in cases of real emergency
and, at times, distress, Grand Lodge has not been unsympathetic to the
needs of constituent Lodges, and in a number of cases has voted financial
assistance.
The resolution proposes that the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge
Financing administer the Loan Fund which it seeks to establish. This
Committee is of considerable assistance to Lodges in working out
financial plans for new Masonic Halls.
If the knowledge and experience jointly held by this Committee
and the members of a Lodge with whom it .counsels cannot arrange
from the resources of the Lodge itself a sound financial building program,
we doubt the wisdom of asking all Lodges of this jurisdiction to tax
themselves to underwrite such a building project.
For the above reasons the Finance Committee opposes the adoption
of this resolution and recommends a "No" vote.
The Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes,
on Lodge Financing. and on Local Temple Association Finances reported their concurrence.
Defeated by majority vote.

REPORT OF COMMITTE ON
RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In the spring of this year the Chairman of this Committee, while on
a tour around the world, visited several Grand Lodges.
In Tokyo he was graciously received by the Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of Japan, Most Worshipful Sadaichi Horiuchi, Right
Worshipful George Togasaki, Deputy Grand Master, Right Worshipful
Carl T. Nakamura, Senior Grand Warden, Very Worshipful Nohea
0. A. Peck. Grand Treasurer, Very Worshipful George B. Margulis,
Grand Secretary, Worshipful George H. Booth, Junior Grand Lecturer.
Worshipful Norman Cohen, Master of Square & Compus Lodge No. 3
and Worshipful Francisco A. B. Yule, Master of Far East Lodge No. 1
of Y okahama. The Grand Master is an outstanding lawyer and a

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

263

dedicated ~ason: This Grand Lodge has been recognized by more than
seventy Jurisdictions. Its financial condition is excellent and it has a
major interest in the exceedingly valuable property on which the Grand
Lodge Temple rests. Its future is bright. The only cloud which casts
its shadow is the fact that the Grand Lodge of the Philippines, some
1500 miles distant, as a price of recognition, retains jurisdiction over
four Lodges in Japan and deprives the new Grand Lodge of Japan of
needed revenue and fraternal cooperation. This invades the jurisdiction
of~ local Grand Lodge and may be characterized as Colonial Masonry,
which should have no place in our modern concept of Masonic freedom.
M~st -yv~rshipful George Fitch, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of China, invited our Chairman to visit him at Taipei, Taiwan, but illness
precluded acceptance; however, the Grand Master with the assistance of
Brother Alfred S. Lee, Past Grand Secretary, caused a luncheon meeting
to be held in Hong Kong at which prominent Masons of China paid
respects to our Chairman.
The Chairman was entertained by members of the Grand Lodge of
Egypt in Cairo in Lodge Ani No. 384. Similar courtesies were accorded him in a previous visit in 1956.
In company with Hon. Newcomb Condee, Chairman of our Committee on Correspondence, our Chairman attended the Quarterly
Communication of the United Grand Lodge of England in June. The
Assistant Grand Master, General Adair, and Very Worshipful J. W.
Stubbs, Grand Secretary, were attentive and gracious. Both were personally present as our guests at our last Annual Communication and
were still singing the praises of their fraternal treatment while here.
The United Grand Lodge of Germany, as such, has disappeared
and a new Grand Lodge has been created bearing the name United
Grand Lodges, Brotherhood of Freemasons in Germany, which represents a consolidation of the old United Grand Lodge and certain other
Grand Lodges called Land Grand Lodges and Grosse Landeslodge, the
latter being the surviving Christian (Swedish Rite) Grand Lodge. It is
~ncertain whether the Swedish system will be used. In light of this, it
is necessary that our recognition of the United Grand Lodge of Germany be cancelled. Because of this transition, problems have arisen
which have not yet responded to solution. The new Grand Lodge also
recognizes the Grand Lodge of France, which fact confers no blessings.
The petition for recognition of the new United Grand Lodges, Brotherh~d of Freemasons in Germany, is before us but we suggest that no
action be taken thereon at this time and that such be laid over for
further investigation and study.
The situation in Guatemala is still baffling. In 1923 we recognized
the Grand Lodge of Guatemala ( 1923 Proc. 700). During the year 1954
a political revolution occurred in Guatemala, which resulted in a new
government under a military Junta, which ordered dissolution of the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

264

Grand Lodge on the specious grounds that the officers thereof engaged
in pro-Communist activities, but it granted the right to form a new
Grand Lodge. The new Grand Lodge was formed under the same name,
using the same address as the old. The clash between the so-called new
Grand Lodge and the old Grand Lodge still exists. A petition for
recognition of said Grand Lodge is before us but we recommend that
same be denied and that our fraternal relations continue with the old
Grand Lodge, known as the Bianchi group.
We have given consideration to a petition for recognition by The
Lebanese Grand Lodge of Beirut, Lebanon, which we suggest be held
and study because of the confused frater0 ver for further investigation
nal and political conditions which obtain in that country and for further
reason thsit the source of the Grand Lodge is not certain.
Under consideration also is a petition for recognition from the Grand
Lodge of Pernambuco, Brazil, but the facts and information respecting
the organization and tenure of said Grand Lodge are not clear so we
suggest that said petition be held over for further investigation and
study. Another reason too is the fact that Masonry in Brazil is greatly
confused. In existence there is a federated Grand Lodge bearing the
name Grand Orient of Brazil. which is recognized by the United Grand
Lodge of England but not recognized by us. There are some seventeen
individual State Grand Lodges. some fourteen of which are recognized
by us but none by the United Grand Lodge of England. Generally
speaking, the State Grand Lodges recognize each other and some recognize. to the extent of intervisitation, the Grand Orient of Brazil.
Lastly, we have examined the petition for recognition from the Grand
Lodge of Santa Catarina located in the Capitol, Florianopolis. Santa
Catarina is one of the small states in the southern part of Brazil. which
is in the Temperate Zone, just north of the State of Rio Grande Do
Sul. The petition indicates that this Grand Lodge meets all of our tests
for recognition. It has been recognized by the Grand Lodge of Rio
Grande Do Sul, which is recognized and respected by us, and by some
nine jurisdictions of the United States. We, therefore, recommend that
this Grand Lodge be recognized by the Grand Lodge of California.
We. therefor. move adoption of this report, suggestions and recommendations.
Respectfully submitted,

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The regular session of the 1959 California Legislature has made
changes in the Unemployment Insurance Code which may affect some
of our Masonic organizations. Effective January 1. 1960, the taxable
wage base for unemployment insurance will be raised from a maximum
of $3,000 to a maximum of $3,600. In addition, the maximum contribution rate will be increased from 2.7% to 3%. effective January 1, 1961.
The Legislature further provided that a separate fund be established,
through employer taxes ranging from .05% to .2% of taxable wages paid
beginning January 1, 1959, to provide extended benefits whenever unemployment in the State reaches 6%.
For reference purposes, there is presented a schedule of rates and
tax bases for various payroll taxes which under present laws will be
effective January 1, 1960, and thereafter.
FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS (SOCIAL SECURITY)

Tax rates applicable to first $4,800 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year - to be paid at the same rate by both employer and employee.

Calendar Year
1960 through 1962
1963 through 1965
1966 through I 968
After 1969 .

Percent
3

3!,1
4

4!,1

FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT TAX

Masonic Lodges are not subject to this tax unless they employ
four or more employees in non-ritualistic services and each employee is
paid $50, or more, per calendar quarter.
CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX

Tax rate applicable to first $3,600 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year - to be paid only by employer.
Rates based on employment experience. Graduated from zero to a
maximum of 2.7% during calendar year 1960, and .3% to a maximum
of 3% effective with calendar year 1961. State will furnish notification
of rate.

THE COMMITTEE:

CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX-EXTENDED BENEFITS

H. WARLOW

Rate applicable to taxable wages paid to each employee during
calendar year - to be paid only by employer. Rates vary depending on
State's employment experience.
Graduated from .05% to .2% with reduction when fund reaches

CHESTER

WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY, JR.
JoHN

Adopted.

265

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

R. MooRE, Chairman

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

specified level. Determination of rate will be made by State. State will
bill employer annually.

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thursday, October 1, 1959

266

CALIFORNIA DISABILITY INSURANCE TAX
Tax rate applicable to first $3,600 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year - to be paid. by employee. Rate 1%.
Respectfully submitted,
ALEXANDER L. CROCE
JAMES E. HAMMOND
ROBERT R. YoRK
At 12:05 p.m., Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

267

At 1 :30 p.m., Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master pre~
siding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand ·Chaplain.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
(Items reported on at any time during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has under consideration the
special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the year,
including his actions on applications for degrees for members of the
Armed Forces lacking the residence qualifications, permission to hold
special elections, to open lodge elsewhere than regular meeting place, to
receive and act upon applications for degrees of rejected candidates
within less than 12 months from date of rejection, and also his approval
of resolutions relative to life membership and miscellaneous matters.
We find that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of the law. We,
therefore, recommend that the acts of the Grand Master therein be
approved.
Adopted.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your committee• has carefully examined the decisions of the Grand
Master and find that all are in accordance with our law.
We, therefore, present the following resolution:
RESOLVED, That all decisions of the Grand Master numbered
1 to 11 inclusive be approved.
JOHN R. MOORE
OSCAR LAWLER
Louis C. DRAPEAU
OIToRoHWER
WAKEFIELD TAYLOR
ANDREW R. ScHOITKY
LEO E. ANDERSON
CLAy Ro BBi NS
ELMER p. BROMLEY
Adopted. ·

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

QUALIFICATIO NS OF OFFICERS' COACH

the Secretary of the Lodge, his plea of not guilty, the Master of said
Lodge, or Trial Master if the Master is disqualified, shall make complete
investigation and shall determine whether the charge and specifications
are true, causing the facts relating thereto to be reduced to writing, in
triplicate: and he shall make a finding as to the guilt or innocence of the
accused, shall fix the penalty therefor, and shall cause one copy of the
complete written record to be forwarded to the Grand Secretary, and
shall cause two copies therefor to be filed in the archives of the Lodge.
Should accused make a written request for a copy of the record, one of
these copies may be given to him. At the next meeting of the Lodge the
Trial Master shall announce his findings and the penalty imposed by
him. Notice of the penalty fixed by the Trial Master shall be mailed to
the accused at his last known address. A copy of the Minutes of the
Master's announcement shall be sent to the Grand Secretary as a part
of the record.
The Committee on Grievances reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENC E:
Certain Past Masters have presented a resolµtion to amend Section
161 (4th) to appoint as an officers' coach a qualified Past Master of a
Lodge of this jurisdiction. The present section requires that he be a
qualified Past Master of the Lodge. It is pointed out that newly constituted Lodges frequently lack such a qualified person. It is therefore
recommended that the following resolution be adopted:
RESOLVED : That Section 161 (4th) of the C. M. C. be repealed
and the following enacted in lieu thereof:
"161 (4th) To appoint _in each Lodge within his district an
Officers' Coach who shall be a qualified Past Master of a Lodge of this
Jurisdiction, and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Inspector. The
Officers' Coach shall assist in teaching the ritual to the officers of the
Lodge, and assist in preparing them to qualify for advancement."
We move adoption of the resolution and recommend a "Yes" vote.
The Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Ritual
reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

HOME PORT JURISDICTION
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENC E:
The resolution of Robert H. Burrows and other Past Masters of
the St. Elmo Lodge No. 697 to amend Section 520 has been considered
by your Committee. and we present the following resolution.
RESOLVED that Section 520 ( C. M. C.) be amended by striking
therefrom, the following words found on lines 2 apd 3, "said port having
been designated by the United States Navy Department" and inserting
the following:
The United States Coast Guard, the United States Coast and
Geodetic Survey, the Military Sea Transportation Service and any
other service vessel whose crew receives their pay directly from the
United States Government (said port having been designated by the
proper governmental authorities) . We move the adoption of the resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their
concurrence.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

FAILURE TO PLEAD NOT GUILTY
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENC E:
RESOLVED: That Section 692.4 of the Masonic Code be amended
to read as follows:
(Procedure if accused fails to plead not guilty.) If, within the time
limited in said notice, the accused shall not have filed in writing, with

269

DUTY OF TRIAL MASTER
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENC E :
RESOLVED: That Section 699 of the Masonic Code be amended
by adding at the end thereof the following sentence:
When the Master is disqualified for any reason, the Trial Master
appointed must make the Investigation and findings, and must fix the
penalty and make the report provided for in Section 692.4 of this code.
The Committee on Grievances reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

RIGHT OF ACCUSED
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENC E:
RESOLVED: That Section 702 of the Masonic Code be amended
to add at the end thereof the following sentence:
The summons shall also inform the accused of his right to be
represented by counsel as provided in Section 709 of this code.
Be it further Resolved, that the form in Section 705 of the Masonic
Code, be amended by adding after the words, "which is hereunto annexed," the following sentence: Any Master Mason in good standing
may, at your request, appear as your counsel and assist in your defense,
or may represent you if you cannot be present. Such counsel need not
be an attorney at law.
The Committee on Grievances reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

270

271

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

SERVICE OF SUMMONS

If the Lodge which expelled petitioner was not the Lodge of which
he was then a member, similar notice shall be given to the Lodge of
which petitioner was a member at the time of his expulsion, if the same
was a Lodge within the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge.
The notice must be read at the next stated meeting of the Lodge
after its receipt by the Secretary and the Master must state to the members present that a vote may be taken then or at the following stated
meeting on the question of approval or disapproval of the restoration. If
a motion is made and seconded either to approve or disapprove the
restoration a secret vote by written ballot shall be taken and the result
entered in the minutes, and the secretary shall promptly notify the Grand
Secretary of the result of said ballot.
The Master shall also announce that any member may express his
endorsal of or objection to the restoration by communication to the
Grand Secretary or that any member may orally state his approval or
disapproval to the Master. Prior to the opening of the next annual
communication of Grand Lodge the Master shall inform the Grand
Secretary in writing the number of endorsers and of objectors.
The Committee on Grievances reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

Resolved, that Section 707 of the Masonic Code be amended to read
as follows:
Service of Summons. If the accused be with~n the jurisdiction of
the Lodge or within the county in which the Lodge is located, the summons and copy of the charges shall be issued and served upon the
accused at least ten days prior to the day appointed for the trial, and
shall be served personally by the Tiler or some other member of the
Lodge authorized by the Master for that purpose, or shall be left at his
ordinary residence or place of business, or may be forwarded to his
address by the Secretary, by mail. If he be without the said jurisdiction, but within the state, and his residence be known, they shall be
issued and served upon the accused at least thirty days prior to the
day appointed for the trial, and shall be forwarded to his address by
the Secretary, by mail. If he be without the state and his residence be
known, they shall be issued and served upon the accused at least sixty
days prior to the day appointed for the trial, by the Secretary forwarding the same to his address by registered mail. If his address be unknown the Master shall order the trial to proceed at once upon the
testimony, ex parte. In the event the trial shall be held ex parte the
record shall contain a full statement of the facts showing due diligence
in the effort to locate the accused.
Service by mail as herein permitted shall be complete from and
after depositing the documents in the mail in a sealed envelope with suf..
ficient postage thereon, upon due proof thereof by certiflcate of the
Secretary.
The Committee on Jurisprudence, with the concurrence of the Committee on Grievances, recommended the adoption of the resolution in
the form originally submitted.
A motion to amend by specifying registered mail where the accused
is without the state was adopted by 5/6 vote.
The resolution, as amended, was adopted by 5/6 vote.

USE OF "TRIAL MASTER"
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:
RESOLVED: That Sections 718, 720, 723 and 726 of the Masonic
Code be amended by substituting for the words, "Master or Past
Master," wherever they appear, the words, "Trial Master."
The Committee on Grievances reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

RESTORATION FOLLOWING EXPULSION
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:
RESOLVED: That Section 767 of the Masonic Code be amended
by adding at the end thereof the following:
·

LEGAL INVESTMENTS IN HAW Aii
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration a
resolution, presented by Brother Paul A. Pftueger, proposing to amend
Section 403-1 ( d) of the California Masonic Code, relative to Legal Investments in Ha~ii and recommends that the Masonic Code be
amended as provided in the resolution by amending Section 403-1 ( d) to
read as follows:
" ( d) Such other securities as are ·legal investments for saving
banks in California or Hawaii."
We move the adoption of the resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their
concurrence.
Adopt~ 5/6 vote.
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONSSTATE OF HAWAII
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUD.ENCE:
Your ·Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration a
reso~ution, presented by Brother Paul A. Pftueger, proposing to amend
Se~!on 403-3 ( c) of the California Masonic Code, relative to changing
the Territory of Hawaii" to the "State of Hawaii" and recommends the
Masonic Code be amended by striking out the word ''Territory" and

r

272

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

273

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

line of Section
inserting in lieu thereo f the word "Stat e" in the third
403~3 ( c) thereo f.
We move the adopt ion of the resolution.
repor ted their
The Committee on Policy and Gene ral Purpo ses
concurrence.
Adop ted 5/6 vote.

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON POLICY AND
GEN ERA L PUR POSE S

tion are con~
(Items repor ted on at any time during the Communica
solidated to facilitate reference.)
PUBLI C SCHO OL FUND

To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge of California:
to appro priate
A resolution prese nted by Broth er Willi am E. Rife,
carefu lly con~
been
has
ses"
purpo
l
schoo
public
$2,500.00 for "spec ial
ses.
sidere d by the Committee on Policy and Gene ral Purpo
ded upon the
expen
be
shall
s
monie
the
The resolution provi des that
Chair man of
the
and
urer
Treas
Grand
the
r,
order of the Grand Maste
the Finan ce Committee.
progr am
Your Committee is hearti ly in accord with the Gran d Lodge
in the
ence
confid
t
utmos
the
has
also
and
ls
in suppo rt of public schoo
officers name d in the resolution.
and for what
The point in quest ion is why the fund is neces sary
nation, your
expla
such
any
of
ce
absen
the
in
purpo se will it be used
mend that Gran d
Comm ittee feels that it would be poor policy to recom
Lodg e sign a blank check.
ed.
We, theref ore, recommend that the resolution be not adopt
LESLI E E. WooD
CHES TER H. WARL OW
ELLSW ORTH MEYE R
AUGU STUS H. ALLE N
RicHA RD H. CHAM BERLA IN

ARTH UR PAUL SEN
EDWA RD J. BLICK FELDT
JACK H. RuDY . JR.
HARR Y B. KEELI NG

matte r of exThe Judge Advo cate moved an amen dmen t, "each
expen diture ."
e
befor
pendi ture be referr ed to the Taxat ion Comm ittee
The amen dmen t was adopt ed.
amen dmen t,
The Chair man of the Committee on Finan ce moved an
"for curre nt fiscal year." The amen dmen t was adopt ed.
The resolution, as amen ded, was not adopt ed.

REC ONS IDER ATIO N OF 1958 RESO LUTI ON

forwa rd from
The Grand Mast er prese nted the resolution carrie d
ncem ent that
annou
his
with
dance
accor
in
ess,
1958 as unfinished busin
morning, and the
it would be a special order of business for Thurs day
resolution was defea ted by a majority vote.

SPECIAL COM MIT TEE ON SCH OLA RSH IPS

has been reTo your Committee on Policy and Gene ral Purpo ses
s.
arship
Schol
on
ferred the repor t of the Special Committee
to perfo rm
r
Maste
Grand
the
by
This Committee was appoi nted
arship s
schol
ing
award
of
am
progr
the
with
certai n duties in connection
of
ssions
submi
for advan ced study in highe r education, to review the
e
relativ
r
Maste
applic ants and make recommendations to the Grand
to admin istrati on of the progr am.
and that the
The Committee feels that their work is not completed
ued.
special Committee shoul d be contin
ore, recomYour Committee on Policy and Gene ral Purpo ses, theref
ued.
mend s that the Special Committee on Schol arship s be contin
Adop ted.

COM MIT TEE ON CON S1Tf UTIO N OBS ERV ANC

E

repor t that
The resolution conta ined in the Const itutio n Obser vance
been rehas
ued
the annua l Const itutio n Mont h Obser vance be contin
ses.
f erred to the Committee on Policy and Gene ral Purpo
We quote one parag raph of the repor t:
progr am
"A numb er of Maste r's repor ts object to the Obser vance
s whos e
Lodge
of
list
the
to
these
g
for a numb er of reaso ns. Addin
er of
numb
the
and
best,
at
earted
half-h
and
suppo rt is but apath etic
g
itutin
const
these
Lodges who hold no obser vance at all, and in spite of
s
Lodge
the
when
a minority, this committee feels that the time has come
desire
they
er
wheth
to
as
of the jurisdiction shoul d expre ss themselves
ore offer the
this obser vance progr am to continue or not. We theref
following reso.lution:
h Obser vance
"RES OLV ED, that the annua l Const itutio n Mont
shall be and hereb y is contin ued."
s that the
Your Committee on Policy and Gene ral Purpo ses agree
feeling
the
ain
ascert
to
Lodge
matte r shoul d be broug ht befor e the Grand
the
that
mend
recom
ore
theref
We
of the several const ituent Lodges.
be
vance
Obser
h
Mont
n
itutio
Const
l
annua
resolution to contin ue the
adopt ed.
Adop ted.

SPECIAL REP ORT ON CLUBHOUSES

under conThe Policy and Gene ral Purpo ses Committee has had
ouses "
Clubh
nic
Maso
on
ittee
sidera tion the repor t of the "Spec ial Comm
tion.
held over from the 1958 Communica
ouse, and,
The repor t was made in two sections, one for each Clubh
contro ls
and
tion
opera
of
d
metho
n,
izatio
organ
in general, outlines the
, an
ations
mend
over the activities of each. It also contains certai n recom
of which have been carefu lly reviewed.
The following points are disclosed:

274

275

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

( 1 ) Title to the real property in each instance is vested in the name
of an appropriate corporation.
( 2 ) The active management of each corporation is entrusted to a
Board of Directors who are elected upon nomination by the
Grand Master. This conforms to the practice which has been
in use by the Masonic Homes for many years.
The report further discloses that each corporation is operated subject
to the rules, regulations and discipline of Grand Lodge.
Because of these reasons, the Policy and General Purposes Committee believes that no change in the corporate set up, or method of selecting
directors is necessary or desirable. Adequate controls exist and any
change would merely complicate the present operation which is admittedly satisfactory.
The Grand Master, at all times, has in his power authority to control
and guide each Board. The Boards, in turn, have ample means to determine administrative policy subject to his limitations.
We feel. however, that it is desirable that copies of the "Articles of
Incorporation" of both Clubhouses, together with appropriate By-Laws,
be Bled with the Grand Secretary.
We also suggest that photostats of Deeds and Title Instruments
also be placed with the Grand Secretary for safekeeping.
One section of the report states, "lt is the opinion of the members of
the Committee that the relatively limited use of the Clubhouse facilities
is due to the lack of adequate publicity or communications within the
Masonic Bodies."
It would appear to us that a joint effort on the part of both Clubhouses in presenting their excellent facilities to the general membership
of Masonic Bodies through periodic bulletins would accomplish much
good.
Likewise, a close tie to campus activities through student committees
or g·r oups would be desirtble.
We believe that the Directors of each Club should develop within
their own groups adequate programs of communication along the lines
suggested.
We compliment the Committees who compiled the reports under
review and recommend that the 1958 report of the "Special Committee
on Clubhouses" be received and filed.
Adopted.

The primary feature of the proposal is embodied in its concern
for the portraits of Past Grand Masters and portraits of future Grand
Masters.
The Special Committee on the Disposition of Past Grand Masters'
Portraits has reported and the adoption of its report disposed of this
particular section of the resolution.
Most of the remaining items in the resolution are matters which
generally come under the supervision and direction of the Grand
Secretary.
We have complete confidence in his ability to supervise and direct
the preparation of drawings, scrolls and other artistic items which
Grand Lodge may direct to his care.
Further, we see no good reason why Grand Lodge should undertake
to assist constituent Lodges in any problem when its very nature is
peculiar to the particular Lodge in question.
We, therefore, urge that this resolution be rejected.
To bring the matter before Grand Lodge, I move the resolution.
The Policy and General Purposes Committee recommend a "No"
vote.
The Committees on Jurisprudence and on Finance reported their
concurrence.
Defeated by majority vote.

RESOLUTION ON FINE ARTS
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
The Policy and General Purposes Committee has had under consideration the resolution offered by sundry Brethren creating a standing
committee on Fine Arts.
·

RESOLUTION ON IDEMNIFICATION
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that
consideration of the Resolution on ldemnifkation be deferred until the
1960 Communication in order to allow time for further study.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence.
Adopted.

DUES COLLECTION EXPENSE
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it, the resolution to amend Section 581 of the California Masonic Code
to provide that any member restored within two years after suspension
for non-payment of dues shall, in addition to paying the arrearages due,
be required to pay the costs expended by the Lodge on account of his
delinquency. such as telephone calls, registered letters. telegrams, et
cetera.
Your Committee can appreciate the exasperation often occasioned by
habitual delinquents, and agrees in principle with the idea that such

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

thoughtless brethren should not be permitted to cause the Lodge needless
expenditures. However, we feel that the proposed resolution is not in
keeping with sound business practice and that the exercise of the
authority proposed might create ill will out of all proportion to the small
monetary savings accruing to the Lodges.
We, therefore, move the resolution and recommend a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence.
Defeated by majority vote.

COMMITTEE ON COMMERCIALI SM
At the 1958 Communication of the Grand Lodge, there was referred
to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, the report of the
Committee on Commercialism to which was appended "Regulations
Governing Organizations Subject to the Jurisdiction of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California."
At that time, your Committee did not have sufficient time to make the
detailed study that they felt was necessary to recommend action on the
regulations, and asked that the referral be continued for report at this
communication.
After a careful perusal of the five r~gulations, your Committee is of
the unanimous opinion that the regulations proposed do nothing more
than spell out in layman's language, the present existing law relative to
advertising, public support. solicitation of gifts, commercial ventures,
and gambling, as they pertain to organizations requiring Masonic affiliation or sponsorship, as well as constituent Lodges. Also included
with the regulations is a definition of the organizations to which they
apply in order to preclude possible misunderstandings.
The report of the Committee on Commercialism states that its
reasons for gathering together these regulations is for the purpose of
preventing unwilling violations of our law on the part of the various
prerequisite groups and it expresses the hope that copies of the regulations will be sent to all groups affected.
Inasmuch as these regulations involve no new law, but merely are a
serious attempt to gather together and to clarify our laws as regards the
affiliated groups, your Committee on Policy and General Purposes offers
the following resolution and recommends its adoption.
Resolved that the Regulations appended to the 1958 Report of the
Committee on Commercialism as exhibited in the 1958 Proceedings
(pages 126-127) and approved by Grand Master Leo E. Anderson, be
and are hereby approved and that appropriate distribution to the Lodges
and affected organizations be arranged.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

277

COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY

The report of the History Committee at the last communication of
Grand Lodge included an extended outline providing for the creation
of Registered Historic Masonic Landmarks throughout the jurisdiction.
No action was taken at that Communication, and the proposal now has
been referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Your Committee is cognizant of the fine work of the History Committee and is sympathetic with the idea of preserving worthwhile Masonic Landmarks. We feel. however, that rather than to provide for
doing so on so broad and extended a basis as the proposition provides
that if and when a worthwhile landmark is brought to the attention of
Grand Lodge, that it should and will handle the matter at that time.
Your Committee, therefore, moves the adoption of the following
resolution.
RESOLVED: That the recommendation of the History Committee
made in 1958, relative to the establishment of a program of Registered
Historic Masonic Landmarks, be not approved.
Adopted.

REQUIRING WRITTEN BALLOT
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes has been referred
the proposal to amend Section 582 of the California Masonic Code,
which concerns the method of restoring a member who has been suspended for non-payment of dues, by striking the words "a two-thirds
vote by ballot" and substituting the words "a two-thirds vote by written
ballot."
•
Section 323.5 of the Californ~a Masonic Code defines a "ballot" to
mean a secret vote by balls and cubes or slips of paper. A Master,
therefore, has his choice of voting by either the balls and cubes or the
written ballot method.
The proposed amendment would restrict the method of voting to a
written ballot and this Committee believes that the Master should have
the right to select either method of balloting.
In order to present the matter, we move the resolution and recommend a "no" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence.
Defeated by majority vote.

RA TIO OF CUBES IN BALLOT BOX
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes has been referred
a proposal to amend Section 533 C. M. C. which describes the method

278

279

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

, of preparing the ballot box. and requires that one-third of the total
number of balls and cubes must be cubes.
This resolution proposes to change this to require that one-fifth of
the total number of balls and cubes must be cubes.
The Committee can find no advantage to such a change, but we can
find a serious disadvantage. In voting upon restorations, a two-thirds
vote ~s required to restore the member. Conversely, it requires over
thirty-three per cent to reject the member. This might be impossible to
accomplish if twenty per cent of the ballots were cubes.
In order to present the matter, we move the resolution and recommend a "no" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence.
Defeated by majority vote.

COMBINED REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
and
COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK SCHOLARSIDP AW ARDS
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY ·
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes has been referred
the resolution to develop scholarship award programs.
Your Committee on Policy and 1General Purposes recognizes the
importance of maintaining our public school system as well as the desirability of providing scholarships to worthy students.
It is the opinion of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
however, that the amount of money which a Lodge could make available
each year would be too small to adequately provide the expenses of even
one student. Because of the limited funds available the program would
not be effective.
Furthermore, such a contribution of Lodge funds would fall in the
same category of Lodges contributing to other forms of charity.
In order to present the matter. we move the resolution and your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "no" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence.
Defeated by majority vote.

COMMITTEE ON
LOCAL TEMPLE ASSOCIATION FINANCES
The Committee on Lodge Financing. to which had been referred the
report of the Committee on Local Temple Association Finances. reported
their concurrence with the recommendation in that report that the Committee be discontinued.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence.
Adopted.

(Items reported on at any time during the Communication are consolidated to facilitate reference.)

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION-SECOND MONDAY
OF OCTOBER
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has considered the proposed
resolutions relating to the establishment of a regular meeting date for
Grand Lodge and recommends the following resolution.
RESOLVED: That Section 101 C. M. C. be amended to read as
follows:
101. Annual. Each Annual Communication shall be held in the
City of San Francisco, commencing on the second Monday of October,
at ten o'clock a.m.; provided, however. that any Annual Communication
may be held at any other place in the State of California upon adoption
by this Grand Lodge at any previous Annual Communication by a flvesixths vote of a resolution so providing.
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes have been referred two Resolutipns indentifled as B-1 and B-2, each proposing to
amend Section 101, C. M. C. relating to the date for convening the
annual communication of the Grand Lodge.
Resolution B-1 would provide that each annual communication of
the Grand Lodge be held commencing on Monday of the last full week
in September.
. Resolution B-2 would provide that each annual Communication be
held commencing on the second Monday of each October.
Your Committee recognizes that any date which might be set for
the convening of Grand Lodge could be inconvenient for some who
attend. But your Committee is also aware of widespread dissatisfaction
over the present date.
This Grand Lodge held its annual communication beginning on
the second Monday in October each year from 1864 to 1955. In 1955 the
annual meeting was scheduled for Monday. October 24, in order to
obtain the facilities of the Civic Auditorium on which a prior commitment had been made to another organization for the second week in
October. Since 1955, the dates for convening Grand Lodge have been
shifted from time-to-time in order to again obtain the facilities of the

280

281

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Civic Auditorium, and to conform to special ceremonies of the Grand
Lodge.
It is interesting to note that during more than 90 years the brethren
of this jurisdiction have attended Grand Lodge in ever-increasing
numbers, completely satisfied with the date established for convening
the annual communication nearly 100 years ago.
Your Committee is of the opinion that any additional time gained
between the close of the fiscal year and the convening of Grand Lodge
would be most helpful to the experts who audit the accounts of Grand
Lodge, to the Grand Secretary's office and to the Committees charged
with the preparation of Grand Lodge budgets and financial statements.
While your Committee is sympathetic with the motives that
prompted the Resolution identified as B-1. we believe it to be in the
best interests of the craft to again convene the Grand Lodge on the
second Monday of each October.
Your Committee, therefore, respectfully recommends that Resolution
B-2, providing for convening the Grand Lodge on the second Monday
of each October, be adopted.
Defeated by majority vote.

provided in the resolution by striking out the words and figures "forty
per cent ( 40% ) " and inserting in lieu thereof the words and figures
"twenty per cent ( 20%)" in line one of Section 246-1 and that the
Masonic Code be further amended by striking out the words and figures
"forty per cent ( 40% ) " and inserting in lieu thereof the words and
figures "sixty per cent ( 60%)" in line one of Section 246-3, and also
strike out the words and figures "forty per cent ( 40% ) " and substitute in
lieu thereof the words and figures "sixty per cent ( 60%)" in the third
line of the last paragraph, of Section 246-3, thereof.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence respectfully calls attention to the
fact that this proposed amendment is permissive only and is not a directive. Great care should be exercised in making investments under the
authority granted by this proposed amendment.
We move the adoption of the resolution.

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION-L AST FULL WEEK
IN SEPTEMBER
The proponents of the resolution submitted to designate the last
full week of September moved the adoption of that resolution in the
following form:
BE IT RESOLVED, that the first sentence of Section 101 of the
Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"Each Annual Communication shall be held in the City of San
Francisco, commencing on Monday of the last full week of September,
at ten o'clock a.m."
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence.
The resolution was adopted by a 5/6 vote.
(Replying to numerous inquiries as to what "the last full week in
September meant, the Grand Master ruled that it means the last full
five days in September from Monday through Friday. Therefore, in
1960, Grand Lodge will convene on Monday, September 26, and will
continue through Friday, September 30.)

INVESTMENT PERCENTAGE FORMULAGRAND LODGE
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration a
resolution, presented by Brother Paul A. PRueger, proposing to amend
Sections 246-l and 246-3, of the California Masonic Code, relative to
the Investment Percentage Formula, used by the Grand Lodge Investment Committee and recommends the Masonic Code be amended as

THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
Resolution D-1 offered on behalf of the Grand Lodge Investment
Committee by Brother Paul A. PRueger, Assistant Grand Treasurer anc!
Past Master of Amity Lodge No. 370, provides for the amendment of
Section 246-l and 246-3 of our ordinances.
These sections provide an investment formula for Grand Lodge
funds. Within the limits of the formula the Investment Committee has
complete discretion. The present sections specify that at least 40% of
the funds must be invested in Group l items; to wit cash or the securities
therein specified; up to 20% may be invested in Group 2 securities and
up to 40% may be invested in Group 3 investments; to wit common
stocks and shares C1f Investment Trusts.
The proposal is to change the formula now in effect by substituting
20% for the 40% now provided for Group l and increasing the percentage allowable for Group 3 investments from 40% to 60%.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has discussed at
great length with the representatives of the Grand Lodge Investment
Committee the reason for the proposed change of percentages.
It is the view of this reporting Committee that the present general
economic outlook and the Ructuating prices of appropriate investments
justify arming the Investment Committee with this change in our ordinances.
We believe that this change is reasonably necessary to insure the
protection of Grand Lod9e assets under the rapidly changing conditions.
We know that the Investment Committee will use this additional
,,
..
.
authority with the utmost discretion.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a Yes
vote.
The Committee on Finance reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

282

283

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENT PERCENTAGE FORMULA - LODGES

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. That Section 403-3 be
amended by striking therefrom the words "40%" and substituting therefore the words "60%" so that the Section will then read:
"3. Up to sixty per cent ( 60%) may be invested in:
(a) Common stocks, which must be fully listed and registered on
an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance
company stock.
( b) Shares of investment trusts.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends the
adoption of Resolution D-7 but with this admonition to the Lodges:
(a) The authority granted is permissive only and is not suggested
as an investment guide under present economic conditions.
(b) That in making investments in Group 3 the Lodge be most
circumspect in taking advantage of this additional authority.
( c) And that they strictly comply with the provisions of the last
paragraph of Section 403-3b of our ordinances, consult with and heed
the advice of the professional investment advisors used by Grand Lodge.
and made available to the constituent Lodges without charge to the in,,
..
dividual Lodges.
We move the adoption of Resolution D-7 and recommend a Yes
vote.
The Committee on Finance reported their concurrence.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration a
resolution, presented by Brother Paul A. Pflueger, proposing to amend
Sections 403-1 and 403-3 of the California Masonic Code. relative to the
Investment Percentage Formula, used by Lodges, and recommends the
Masonic Code be amended as provided in the resolution by striking out
the words and figures "forty per cent ( 40% ) " and inserting in lieu
thereof "twenty per cent (20% )"in line one of Section 403-1 and that
the Masonic Code be further amended by striking out the words and
figures "forty per cent ( 40%)" and inserting in lieu thereof the words
and figures "sixty per cent ( 60%)" in line one of Section 4~3-3 and
also strike out the words and figures "forty per cent ( 40%)" and substitute in lieu thereof the words and figures "sixty per cent ( 60%)" in
the third line of the next to last paragraph of Section 403-3, thereof.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence respectfully calls attention to
the fact that this proposed amendment is permissive only and is not a
directive. Great care should be exercised in making investments under
the authority granted by this proposed amendment.
We move the adoption of the resolution.
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
Resolution D-7 offered on behalf of the Grand Lodge Investment
Committee, also presented by Brother Paul A. Pflueger, offers a similar
amendment to the language of Section 403-1 and 403-3 of our ordinances
so as to grant to the constituent Lodges the same investment formula
which is recommended for the Grand Lodge Investment Committee.
RESOLUTION D-7
RESOLVED, That Section 403-1 be amended by striking out the
words "40%" and substituting therefore "20%" so that the Section
will then read:
"I. At least twenty per cent (20%) of the funds available for investment must be in:
(a) Cash and/or bank accounts.
( b) Obligations of the United States or those for the payment of
which the faith of the United States is pledged.
( c) Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions, provided they were issued pursuant to law and that
the faith and credit of such municipal corporation or district
is pledged for their payment.
( d) Such other securities as are legal for investments for California Savings banks."

BINGO RESTRICTIONS
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:
There has been referred to your Committee on Jurisprudence a
resolution to amend Section 685-d to permit the playing of bingo. We,
therefore, present the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That Annotation "d" of Section 685 C. M. C. be
repealed and that there by substituted therefor a new Annotation "d"
'lo read as follows:
"685-d-The playing of bingo as a form of entertainment in Lodges
and so-called collateral Masonic organizations is permissible, provided
the following restrictions are complied with:
1. Attendance must be limited to members of the Lodge or organization and their families and guests.
2. No charge can be made, directly or indirectly, for attendance or
· ·
participation in the game.
3. Prizes awarded must be of nominal value, such as boxes of candy,
or items of similar value.
4. There can be no lottery. drawing or raffle for prizes conducted
·
incident to such game.
5.· The event cannot be advertised or publicized other than in the

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

regularly published bulletins to members of the Lodge or organization.
6. If a dinner is held preceding the playing of bingo and a charge
is made for the dinner, it must be clearly understood that no portion of
the charge is for the bingo game and that members who do not attend the
dinner are privileged to play bingo without making a payment of any
kind or description."
I move the adoption of the foregoing resolution and your Committee
on Jurisprudence recommends a "Yes" vote.
Defeated by majority vote.
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a resolution to amend Section 685-D to permit the playing of
Bingo as a form of entertainment in Lodges and so-called collateral
Masonic organizations. with the following restrictions:
1. Attendance must be limited to members of the Lodge or organization and their families and guests.
2. No charge can be made, directly or indirectly, for attendance or
participation in the game.
3. Prizes awarded must be of nominal value, such as boxes of candy,
or items of similar value.
4. There can be no lottery, drawing or raffle for prizes conducted
incident to such game.
5. The event cannot be advertised or publicized other than in the
regularly published bulletins to members of the Lodge or organization.
Your Committee has carefully studied the resolution and the arguments in favor of its adoption and is of the opinion that no element of
gambling exists, when no charge is made for participation in the game.
We found that prior to 1955, many of our Lodges held Bingo parties
and found it to be a very popular form of entertainment and one generally enjoyed by the members. Even some church groups allow Bingo as
a form of social activity, where, if it was considered gambling, it would
not be permitted.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes fails to find any
evidence of harm to our fraternity because of Bingo being played as
entertainment in the Lodges. We do, however, feel that one point should
be emphasized, that if a dinner is held preceding the playing of Bingo
and a charge is made for the dinner, it must be clearly understood that no
portion of the charge is for the Bingo game and that members who do not
attend the dinner are privileged to play Bingo without making a payment
of any kind or description.
I move adoption of the resolution and your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote.
Defeated by majority vote.
At 4:25 p.m. Grand Lod.ge was called off until 10:00 a.m .. Friday.

IN GRAND LODGE

284

285

MORNING SESSION-FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1959
At 10:00 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The
minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday. September
30th, were read and approved.
The Grand Master called attention to the presence of Worshipful
Brother Frank H. Cotton, a member of the London Grand Rank, Grand
Lodge of England, and Past Master of Industries Lodge, No. 4100 and
of Northern Polytechnic Lodge, No. 6039. On behalf of the members
of this Grand Lodge, the Grand Master welcomed Brother Cotton to
this Communication.

CALLING UP PROCEDURES
The Grand Master identified the Brethren who had called up the
Grand Lodge at each of the several sessions as follows:

Session
Officer
Monday a.m ...............WILLARD P. MARTIN, JR. WARDEN
McCloud Lodge No. 430
Monday p.m ...............JAMES H. LEACH, W. M.
San Diego Lodge No. 35
Tuesday a.m...............W. R. WILLIAMS, W. M.
Hemet Lodge No. 615
Tuesday p.m ...............GEORGE G. HAWXHURST, W.M.
Starr King Lodge No. 344
Wednesclay a.m ........ .DWIGHT T. DOOLITTLE, SENIOR WARDEN
Maricopa Lodge No. 434
Thursday a.m .............CHARLES H. PITTS, ACTING W. M.
Unity Lodge No. 368
Thursday p.m .............ROMAYNE H. BANTZ, W. M.
Silverado Lodge No. 782
Friday a.m ..................HERBERT W. ROBBINS, P. M.
Damascus Lodge No. 648
The Grand Master also pointed out that during the sessions he had
used gavels presented to him by the following Lodges:
McCloud No. 430
Oasis of Mara No. 735
Maricopa No. 434
Fontana No. 653
Silverado No. 782
Damascus Lodge and other Lodges of District No. 602

286

287

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MESSAGES OF GREETINGS AND CONGRATULATION

Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco
Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal. Fred J. H. Rickon, San Diego Lodge No. 35.
Grand Standard Bearer, James B. Baker, La Mirada Lodge No. 778.
Grand Sword Bearer, G. Maurice Cellar, San Bernardino Lodge
No. 348.
Grand Bible Bearer, Arne Digerud, Suisun Lodge No. 55.
. Senior Grand Deacon, Edward A. Johnson, San Diego Lodge No.
35
Junior Grand Deacon, James R. Young, Crescenta Valley Lodge
No. 652.
Senior Grand Steward, Wayne E. Philippi, Truckee Lodge No. 200.
Junior Grand Steward, Lea Arnold, Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598.
Grand Pursuivant, Gilbert A. Benoit, King Solomon's Lodge No
.
260.
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, David Wright, Menlo Park Lodge No. 651.
The Grand Secretary announced the appointment by the Grand
Master elect, as Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple,
of Rexford L. Hall vice Ira W. Coburn (elected Junior Grand Warden), and John W. Davey vice John M. Gordon (resigned). He also
announced the re-appointment of Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren, and of Keith W. Schlaegel.
The Grand Secretary also anounced the appointment by the Grand
Master elect, as Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, of Past
Grand Master Phil N. Myers to succeed Past Grand Master Leo E.
Anderson (term expired). and of James Leo Halley to succeed Past
Grand Master Charles M. Wollenberg (term expired).

Greetings and congratulations were received at various times during
the Communication from those listed below.
In each instance the message was communicated to those in attendance and received with sincere appreciation.
Benjamin W. Ela, Grand Representative, Maine.
Samuel E. Burke, Past Grand Moster.
Oscar Lawler, Past Grand Master.
Grand Guardian Council and Bethels of the International
Order of Job's Daughters.

ANNUAL ELECTION
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying to the same.
The R. W. Joe L. Shell, San Diego Lodge No. 35, was elected Grand
Master.
The R. W. Alfred F. Breslauer, Starr King Lodge No. 341, was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Guy B. Mize, Unity Lodge No. 368, was elected Senior
Grand Warden.
The W. Ira W. Coburn, Doric Lodge No. 216, was elected Junior
Grand Warden.
The M. W. Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master, Plymouth Lodge
No. 560, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge
No. 630, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Elbert W. Davis, Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571,
was re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Judge Advocate, the M. W. Henry C. Clausen, Past Grand Master,
Ingleside Lodge No. 630.
Grand Chaplain, The Reverend Robert B. Watts, La Jolla Lodge
No. 518.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell, North Butte Lodge
No. 230; Harold N. Richards, Washington Lodge No. 20: Arthur J.
Kahn, Paul Revere Lodge No. 462; Raymond G. Taylor, Libertas Lodge
No. 466; Donald G. Campbell, Granada Lodge No. 608: W. Ben Sorrells, Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.
Grand Orator, Gerald S. Levin, Pacific Lodge No. 136.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.

At 11 :50 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

288

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AFTERNOON SESSION-Friday , October 2, 1959
At 1 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge assembled.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
The Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master, acted
as Master of Ceremonies and the officers, elected and appointed, were
installed by the retliring Grand Master in accordance with the Ritual.
The newly installed Grand Master invested his predecessor with a
Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Charles Albert Adams insignia was transferred from the retiring to the incumbent Grand Master, and the other chair officers
exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The J. Everett Houser lapel pin was transferred from the retiring to
the incumbent Grand·Orator.
The Most Worshipful L. Harold Anderson, Past Grand Master,
invested the retiring Grand Master with the apron of his new designation. A gift to be tendered to Mrs. Myers from the members of Grand
Lodge was presented by Past Grand Master John R. Moore. The Jr.
Past Grand Master acknowledged both presentations in his typically
courteous manner.
At 2: 55 p.m., all business being completed, Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

~;J'.~
Grand Master

{i:ti~
Grand Secretary

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

SPEC IAL

289

APPE NDIX

CONTEN TS
Page
Budget for 1959-60.---··-----'···----····--··-··························-··-··--·······-·····---·· 290
Grand Lodge Audit.... ·-----···-----·--·--·--···········-····-·-·········-······················ 293
Audit of Annual Returns, 1959............................................................ 313
Masonic Homes Audit.......................................................................... 315
Memorial Temple Audit........................................................................ 349
Statistical:
Residents at Decoto........................................................................ 358
Children at Covina Ho~·-··················-·······························-··-······· 367
Number of Residents, Decato and Covina .................................... 369
Per Capita Cost, Decato and Covina............................................ 369

.

Contributions to Special Reserves.................................................. 370

290

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BUDGET 1959-1960

APPROPRIATIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Activities Committee .............................................................,..$ 3,000.00
Board of Control ......................................................................
1,250.00
Charters Committee..................................................................
750.00
Columbia Temple Committee ..................................................
1.500.00
Constitution Observance Committee ......................................
1,200.00
Correspondence Committee ''California Freemason'' ..................................................
2,000.00
De Malay Committee ............................................................. .
750.00
Employment Bureaus ............................................................... . 11.500.00
Endowment Board .................................................................... 14,000.00
750.00
History Committee ................................................................... .
2,000.00
Committee on Research ........................................................... .
Lodge Financing Committee .................................................... 2,850.00
Memorial Temple Campaign Expense ................................... . 22,000.00
Public Schools Scholarship Award ......................................... . 2,000.00
Committee on Public Schools ................................................. . 2,000.00
800.00
Boards of Relief - Reimbursement for Sojourners ..............
1,000.00
Committee on Commercialism ..................................................
Sojourners Committee ..............................................................
250.00
University Clubhouses:
'
Berkeley ............................................................................ 19, 100.00
Los Angeles ...................................................................... 16,500.00
Code Commission ~--···································································
150.00
Grand Lodge Legal Expense....................................................
4,000.00
Investment Committee ..............................................................
500.00
Relief Fund - Grand Master ..................................................
750.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ..........................................
250.00
Committee on Visual Aids........................................................
370.00
Total .....................•...•.................•.......•..•................... $111,220.00

Salaries •.••..•••••.................•.............•...•........•.............................. $ 70,000.00
Grand Lodge Offices -Temple Operation
and Maintenance Expe:nR................................................ 18,000.00
3,000.00
Audit ................•.........................................................................
250,00
Grand Treasurer ......................................................................
Postage and Express................................................................. . 4,500.00
3,600.00
Telephone and Telegraph ....................................................... .
2,500.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ........................... .
500.00
lnvestmen Counsel ................................................................... .
Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Office Employees ...................................... 10,000.00
Retirement Pension Plan 1,000.00
Employees Other Agencies ..............................................
Total •.........................................................................$113,350.00

GENERAL EXPENSE

291

Annual Communication ...........•.•..•...........................................$ 13,000.00
Conferences ............................................................................. . 5,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense ............................... . 7,500.00
750.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler ........................................... .
Grand Master's Travel. Secretarial.
and Miscellaneous Expense ........................................... . 10,000.00
5,000.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges ............................................. .
Grand Masters Portrait Expense ........................................... . 5,000.00
Representatives' Mileage ....................................................... . 36,000.00
Printing ................................................................................... . 23,500.00
Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer ............................................................... .
2,000.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery ..................................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense ........................... . 13,500.00
900.00
Retirement Pay ......................................................................... .
Veteran Buttons ....................................................................... . 3,000.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous ................................................... . 3,500.00
Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges ............................ 8.500.00
1,250.00
Miscellaneous ..................................................................

Administrative and Office ........................................................$113,350.00
General Expense ...................................................................... 139,000.00
Appropriations .......................................................................... 111,220.00

Total •......................................................................... $139,000.00

GRAND TOTAL ..................................................$363,570.00

RECAPITULATION

292

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE

30 000.00
Dues from Lodges. Fees for Degrees. etc................................. $317.111.00
•
Income from Investments, Interest.-··-···-··-·--···--·····---··-···········-

Pay~e:~~:=e~a:a:!~ ~ox~:ise ·---····-··-·····-·····-····-·······-·-····· 14,000.00

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Pay~::~!;;;:~::f~~i!!~~:~ices ........................................ 20,000.00
$381,111.00
t edi nco me ····--·············--·······- ......................
.
T ota IEstima
363 570 00
·
• ·
·····--·-········--···
Items
Budgeted
and
Total Appropriations
Estimated Surplus ······-····················-···-········--··········-·····--$ 17·54 l .OO
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENT S

:::::::::::::::::::$

~;g:gg
One Typewriter.......................................................
550.00
Filing Cabinets ········-··············-·-·····-··--·················-·
1 050 00
One Electric Typewriter ····························-·····························
'soo:oo
Steel Counters and Tables ············-··············-········-··········--·······
····----····················
·······-············
Requirements
Future
Reserve for
Total .......................................................................... $ 2,500.00

J~ 22, 1959

The Xoat WorehipM Grand Lodge ot
Free and Accepted Masons of the
State ot California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
llll California Streat
San Francisco s, California
Gentlemen:
We have examined the statement ot aeseta, liabilities 1 and capital ot
The Moat Warohipful Grand Lodge ot Free and .Accepted llaeona ot the State ot
Calitonrl.a as ot June ,30, 1959, and the related statement ot revenue and expenee

tor the yea:r then ended. Our examination was 111&de in accordance with generalJT
acceJ*.ed auditing standards, and accordingl,y included IRlch teats ot the
accounti11& records and such other auditing procedures .as we considered neceHary
in the circumstances.

The annual financial statements ot Grand Lodge, F. &: A, H. ot
California have been prepared · for l!IBnT years past on the cash basis ot account;~,
and the attached financial statements for the current year are likewise prepared

on that baeis,

Unde1' the cash baois ot accounting, revenue and expenses are recorded

upon the booke ot account and reflected in the financial statements when recei....t
and paid, respective]J', without regard to the periOd to which th117 apply.

Cash on depoeit in hanks and on hand at June .30, 1959, as shown by
Exhibit A, 11111ounted to ll32,.39.3.66, an increase ot 18, 959.48 over the BD)\JZlt
on deposit in banks at the beg~ ot the periO<I,

The toll.owing swzma.ry

shows the source• ot cash funds and the application therot during the ;rear
ended June .30, 1959:

293

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

294

-3-

-2.:ash in banks, June JO, 1958

ll.23.!+34.18

Sources o! funds :
Net revenue for the year ended
June 30, 1959, Exhibit B

I 74,267.l+S

the Lodgea o! 1316,339.95 ror the support. ot Grand Lodge.

Thia bal.aaoe, toget.be?-

with other income of 129,339,21 provided total revenue o! $345,679,l.6 as shown on

Funds applied:
Increese in investment in securities

142,251,71

Increase in fUrnitare an:l fixtures

3,452.86

Elchibit B, !or the support. ot Grand Lodge and its actiTitiea· ·during the current

Eitpenaes and appropriations o! Grand Lodge !or the ;year .amowtted to

IJ05,902,23, leaving a balance o! wtexpended revemie at June JO, 1959 ot

Increase in premiums advanced for
Lodges

1391 776,93. Thia balance, together with gain on aalea or· securities hel4 tor

Decreaoe in liabilities 1'rt1111 18,874.00
at June JO, 1958 to 15,035,00 at
June 30, 1959

174,267 ,45 aa CCIII.pared with a eilllilar net revemie tor the year ended June 30,

investment in the amount o! $34,490.52 provided a nat revenue tor the year of

3.839.00

65.307.97
Net increase in funds during the ;rear
ended June 30, 1959
Cash in banks and on band, JUDa 30, 1959

8.959.48

&1J~·J93.66

a three-year basia to cover the Lodges not otherwiee ccwered by auch insurance.
Grand Lodge collects the pr-1111111 frca the canred Lodges on an annual. prmiua

At JUM. JO, 1959, Grand Lodge had advanced 135,520,00 in insura11ce

p-eaiuaa ..µch 1e due frca the Lodges.

1958, ot 175,909.29, At June JO, 1959, a contribution by Grand Lodge ot the
lllinim11111 81110\Utt ot approximately 135 ,000.00 was required to runt the Retir•mit

Ct1111prehensiv• piblic lhbillty insurance 1a pircha•ed. by Grand Lodge on

baeia,

Thia a\11 1a shown as an aaeat on El:hibi~ A.

Grand Lodge had on hand at June 30, 1959, a balance of 14,984.00 of
the contributioaa received during the year tor the George Washington Masonic
Bational X--ial, end this aaount 1e shown aa a liability on Exhibit A.

.Durins

Inccne Plan, as amended, referred to hereinafter.

Our examination disclosed

no wtpaid bills at June JO, 1959, with the exception ot •undr7 clll'l'ent expenses,

not uterial in 81110\Utt.
On Schedules 4, 5, 6, and 7 o! thie report, the expenses and apJrop-iationa

for the current year are shown in ccai:ariBOD with those tor the p-eceding !iacal.
year, and aleo with the budget !or 1958-59 adopted by Grand Lodge .at the 1958
Coaaunication,

1!1 certain individual categories, expenditure• exceeding the

aaount proTi.ded in the budget were paid with ,the approval ot the Grand Kuter,
a• indicated on the schedules.
Supplies pirchaeed an:l paid !or duriJJg the year tor reaale to .Lodge•

the currmit year eontributiona totaling t5 ,225.00 were paid ov~ to the F.ndmanent

and individuals 11110\Utted to 126 ,636,17, and sales o! such supplies 8111ounted to

Fund of the George Washington Masonic Jlational Komorial Association, iD accordance

123,523.05, leaving a net difference ot t3,113,12, ae shown on Exhibit B. The

with the Ordinances ot Grand Lodge.

accollDts. being on a cash basis of accounting, the inTeat.ory ot uneol4 auppliee

The total revenue r•ceived by. Grand Lodge during the year ended . June 30,

1959, 1'roll contributions lJovied upon the LodgH, 111ounted to 1949,262.45, aa shown
on l!izhibit B of tbia report.

295

Included iD auch revenue were contributions for.

>fl.sonic lime• of Califomia, for California Masonic llellorial T-pl•, and tor the
J:nd.011111ent land ot George Washington Maso¢.c lati,onal ~8111Dri&l Aaaoci&tion, in the

accr•te uouiit ot 1632,922.50, leaving a balance o! the contributions troll

i• nat; retleat.ed on the attached !iDancial st.at-nte.

296

297

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

-~-

-,. -

The publication ot the "Calitonda P'r-son• baa continued during t.he
The 1955 ec..unication or Grand -Lcidge apJrOYed the inclusion or .the
maplo)'eea ot Grand Ledge under the Masonic Homes ot Cali!ornia Retiraent Incoi.
Plan.

On October 3, 1958 the Board ot T;<"'steea ot Masonic Hanes ot Calitorzd&

approved and adopt;ed an amended plan to extend coverage ot the plan to the
mplo,...s ot Qrand lDdge ettectln on J&JN8.17 1, 1956, and to the _•pl"T"ea ot
Masonic Clllbbaua• • Boards ot ii.ellet • and illlplo,.eat Bureaus ettective on Janu&rT 1,
1959.

Approval ot the plan, as amended, .bT the IateMl&l Revenue Service.as a

qualltied trust under section liOl (a) and UA111pt. from income tax under the
proYisiou ot section 501 (a) ot the Internal RevellUO Cade• 1a llOll pending.
Tiie act11&1"1' eatiates that under the Retirment lnCOll9 Plan, aa

amended, appraxiateq $35,000.00 is required to cover the ainimum ~·at on
account ot the put service coats and the tull amount ot current aerrlce coat
tor the period January 1, 1956 to June ?<>• 1959.

The total paet service coete

current 7ear under a resolution adopted at the 1954 COllllllDication ot Grand Lodge.
During the current 7ear subaoriptiona were oold to the 118111berehip ot 180 LodgH
at a rate ot ~ per member and regnl.al' llUbecriptiona ,,..,.. oold at tl,00 per
7ear or at reduced rates tor ml.tiple 7ear subaoriptiona.

These eubecripUon1

and mhcellansoua sales produced an aggregate reYenue ot 164,100.97 depolited 1A
banks during the 7eu ended June 30, 1959.

In the financial etat-nt1, the

rnenue ot 164,100,97, ha• been ottaet aga1n1t the expenaes ot th• Correepond•no•
Comaitt .. ..,unting to $60,643.42, re1ulting in 0&1h reolipte 1A exceH ot ouh
d.1aburt111Hnta in the net - t o t t3,4S7.55, u

ahovn on Schedule 6. Then•

rnenue ot Qrand Lodge tor the 7ear includes 1A income the prepaid port.ion ot
subscription ~ents received during the 7ear.

In order to proTidl 11ainet tbe

time when the cash reoeiptl, due to the pre~t ot aubaoriptiona, mq not •-1
the current expense• ot publishing the uguine, Orand Lodge at itl last ~0.­

under the amended plan at June 30, 1959 tor all participating aaployeea, acoOrdillg

tion authoriHd the eatabliahllent ot the California P'r-IOD RNerT• and the

to the actU11r7, &JD>unted to appraxiateq $128,000.00, ot which ~l/zt. is the

transter to it ot the BUlll ot t9,226.42 which wae the ezoeu ot the cub receipt•

J11inim111 &llDll&l P9111ent.

While tbs budget ot Grand Lodge tor the year ended

June 30, 1959, appropriated tl?,000.00 tar ~ente under the retirment plan,

trom subacriptiona to the California Fre-aon Q\'er pablioation expenHI tor the
fiscal 7ear ended June JO, 1958.

no p&lllllnts -were ade during the :rear pending the appronl by the Intertl&l
ll8Tenu• Serdc• ot the pl&n, .. aaamed.

DuriPS the 7ear the llaaonic Homes !ndo-.t Board am the ottice ot tm
Secret.&17 of Grand Lodge continued to rabe ..,...,. tor Masonic Hcaaa and the

Th• total contributions collected trom the eapi..,..ea ot Grand Lodge,

California Masonic Memorial Teaipl.e.

The tunda collected are tr&Mmi tted &1

Ho•• ot California and to California

representing 3% ot the participating eapl"T"••' regular •al.ar71 trom J&nuarJ" 1,

received to the Endowment Fund ot Masonic

19.56 to June .30, 1959 &110unted to $5,i.77.5S.

Masonic MCK>rial T9J>l•, reepectinl7, and are not retleoted in the attached stat..

Contributions collected tram the

X..Sonic Clllbhouaea, Boards ot Relief am illlpl07'Mftt llureaus tria -Janu&?"T 1, 1959
to Jane 30, 1959 amounted to $619.20, llBlting a total ot $6,096, 7S • . Ona

•ploy9•

. .nte.

The ezpensea incident to thue ~gna in the 11110unta ot tl.4,593.89 and

t12, 99),22, rupectively, are shown on Schedule 6 ot thia report.

Grand Lodge wu

ot Gran4 Lodge, who retired in. Septemb"er 1957, was paid t847 .00 as retireMut illc-

reimbur1ed b7 Masonic Homes tor the ..iount ot th8 upenee ot thl Endo-at Board

trom th• contributione collected, leaving a balance ot t5 ,249. 7S, which baa been

tor the 7..r, aa ehown on Bzhibit B.

tranaferred to the Welle Fargo Bemc, Trustee ot the Pension Trust Fnnd, as ot
June 30, 1959.

298

-1-

-6The cletaill or all apenditur" clvine th• :rear were eminecl. bT ua with

COMPARATIVE WlTH
YEARS il!DJD J1lliB :30. 19S8
Alf) JUllE 30. 1959.
AHD WITH BUDGET

SCHBPULI 6

l!:lP.iliSi APPROPRI4TIOHS

SCllIDULE 7

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AllD wucmmiirs

t.be Ulleption of the Clr&ncl llaater 1 a tra'Hl. 1 HONtariaJ., encl ld.ecellanaoua expenae;
the appropriations to llllplo~ent Bureaua ancl to the Un1Hrait7 Clllbbouaea.

Ho

T0110b9ra conrin& aucb u:p-ea ant 9PJll'Opriatiou baT• been reqairecl. to be tilecl

IF.AR EHDllD
J1lliB 30. 1959

Baapecttul.17 eubmittecl.,

with Clrancl Lodge.
Under elate of October 4 1 1955, the otticera ot Calltornia lluonic
Mmorial Tmp].e aignecl. prold.Ho17 notes 1'!.tb eix 5a!l Franciaoo banks tor a total
or 13,ooo,ooo.oo.

299

GRAND LODGE. OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

Under authorisation ginn at the 1953 -1cation, Gram Lodge

bee.... the guarantor ·;,r theee not••·

California Masonic x-.rial 'i'mpJ.e owed

l2,o63, 790.oo on the•• notn at J'llM 30, 1959.
In ov .opiniol), eubject to the foregoing o~a, tb9 acc~ng
atat-nte J>l'llHnt !air17 the u•at•, 11abillt1•, encl o~tal. or The Moat
Vorahiptul Grand Lodge of Free ancl Accept.eel Masone ot the state o! California at
June 30, 1959, ariaing fro• cub tl'&llllaationa, ancl th• ,....emea collectecl. and ·

upeneee diaburaecl. bT it cluring the 7aar thm aed, 011 a baaia conai•t•nt with
that or th• prececling par.
Ve attacl! the !oll.ov1nc tor 70ur intor11&t10111
m!IBIT A

STATDll!m OF ASSETS ~ILITI!S lllD
CAPITAL (AJUSIHG ti~ASH mlisicTIOHS)

JUllB 30. 1959

BillIBIT B

STATll!Dft' OF RKVBNtlK AHD UP1i!S!

JDHB :30. 1959

SCll!:OOLI! 1

~

J1JllB 30. 1959

SgHIDUL! 2

~s

J1JllB 30. 1959

SCJll!DULI 3

COHTRIBUTIOHS mIVml FR<JI LODalS

!BAR BllD!al
JUHi 30. 1959

SCll!:OOLI! 4

AlllINISTRATIVI AND <FFICI BXP!llSI

!BA!15 l!HDED JllHI 30. 1958

SClll!DIJLI 5

GKN!RAL !!XPl!l!Sl!

C<lllUlTITT WITH
IBAllS IHDED J!Jl!I 30. 1958

YEAR BllDJ!I)

COO'lRATin WITH

lllD JIJHK 30. 1959.
lHD WIT!! BllDGBr

AHO JUHi 30.~,
lHD WITH B

'"~"'~

C~W; "Niue Accountants

300

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

301

mtmIT A

GRAND LOOO:S. F, & A, K. OF CALIFOR!lli

GRAllD WDGE' FI " A. M OF CALil'Ol!NIA

ElllIBlT B

!

STATl!MENI' OI' ASSBTS, LIABILITIES A11D
CAPITAL (ARISIIG PROM CASH T!WiSACTIONS)

JUHi 30. 1959

STAmmg fH REVENUE AND EXPENSE

YXAR ENDl!D JUJIB 30. 1957

~·
Contributio ll8 receiTed troa Lodges (Schedule 3)
$132,393.66

CASH, SCHEDULE l
INVBSTM!N'l'S. (AT COST) SCHBDUL! 2:
Bonds (Market value 12.42, 932,37)

'251,926.95

Stocki (Market Talue 1436,262.38 )

343.624.3.3

Total (llarket TalUe $679,194.7~)
OTlll!ll ASSETS:
Furn1 ture and fixtures

595,551,28

• 39,109.69
35,520.00

In1urance premillllll advanced tor Loci&••

Contributio ll8 received tor special purpoaea:
Masonic llc&ea ot Calitornia
Calltor:iia Masonic lfeaorial T...ple
George Washington Masonic National Mmlorial

Fees tor chart.er.a and diapensatic me
Banta tr<111 Coliabia Temple
Return or Grand Master .Leo E. J.nd.eraon•a traTel
adnnce not uaed
Revenue .troa innstaent1 am savings :
Dividends on stock .
Interest on bonds
Intereat on bank accinllit.a

$324,li00.50

301,123.00
7.399.00

• l,J.85.00
425.00
847.49

t19,518,74
8,031.88
2 . 444.22
29,994.84

850,00

Ra.tundable deposit• with drUnea

~·

75.Jt79.69

Sale ot. supplies held tor rea&l.e
Purcbaae ot auppllea tor rea&l.e

• 23,523.05
26,636.17
(3.113.12)

Total Revenue

&1m i l l 63

TOTAL ASSEl'S

l.345,679.l.6 .

B!'S!I
LIABILITD!S AND CAPITAL

LIABILI!DIS•
Contributio

ns ot IniU.stes, held tor the Bnd.,_,,i Fund
ot the George Waahington llaeonic lational. Memorial

Adnnce pqmeut1 b7 Lodge• on anmaal r.t.urna

•

51.00

t

Loci&•
l.t. rennue tor 79ar ended June 30, 1959 - lb:bibit B
Bal.anoe, June JO, 1959
TOTAL LUBILITIBS, CAPITAL AND RISBKVB

150,978.i.4
91.903.43
$340 ,i.96.12

.Lull• Roiabura- nt trom llaeonic Homee ·ot Cal.Uornia•
5,035.00

Secretaria l and other aervicee·

lihdowaent Board expense
Net. Eicpenae

CAPITAL A!1D USl!RVB1
lleHM"• - California Fre-n

Capitals
Bal&no•, June JO, 1958
!:!!!.• Transfer to Resen-e - California Fre-n,
.uthorized at 1958 c-m.catio n ot Grand

• 97,614,21

General expense (Schedule 5)
Expense appropriatio 119 (Schedule 6)

4,984.00

Total IJ.abill tied

Adainietrat i'!e and ottice expense (Scheclul& 4)

120,000,00
14.593.89
34,593,89

Bal•Me
t724, 122.18

GUN OH SALES CJi' SECURITIES HEID l'OR IliVESTHEl!1'

9,226,~

NET REVEHllE FOR ma am.m JUNE 30. 1959 (E!cldbit A)

f714,895.

74.267.45
789.163.21
$BOJ

84 61

The aboH etateiilent should be road in conjimot.ion vith the Jll'eCeding letter,

305,902.23

• 'J9,'rf6,'TJ

302

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

G!IAl!D LQO!lE· r. t A, x. or CAUf!l!l!U

SCllBDULI l

JUlC! 30

I

Q!W!D La?GJ!. r. " A. M, tJr CALIFOllllIA

1959

303

SCHl!DULE 2
Page l
JUHE 30. 1959

CO!!l@!llAL ACCOllliTS:
.
Crocker-.A.riglo Bational Bank (Operating Pw>d)

l'lCE VALUE

uo,000.00 •

•

40Q

7,993.95

.30,000

,. American Trust Cao.pan;)' (Clearing lcoO'llllt.)

l.01,00

20,000
2,000

laerican Truet Ccapant (RnolTing 1\md)

495,00

Crocke~lo llational. llaDJc

Bank .ot laerie& J.T. a. S,1,

25,000
10;000

19,000
75,000
40,000
25,000:
4,6oo

l.0!!5.83

118,766.02

Crocker...Anglo Jlational Bank

73,901.86
92,667.88

Tom. CASH C.M1h1.t A)

•
406.79
. 30,242.45
20,000.00
1;925.SO
25,656.25
10,000.00
19,248.33
75,640,50
37,990.63
25,687.50
5.129.00

TOTAL BONDS

SAVIJIGB lCCOIJITS r
Banko! laerica l,T, & S,1,

SASH Cll Hlllh

~

Coneolid&te d Ecliaon Caapant ot Hew York, Inc., 4% 19'13
Coneolld&te d !l:lieon Com))ILIV' o! New York, Inc,, 5% 1987
Federal Intermediat e Credit Bank, 3.45%, 1959
Internation al Mineral• & Chemical Corporation , 3.65%, 19Tf
Pacitic Telephone ai:d Telegraph CClllpan;)', 4,625%, 1990
Philadelphi a Electric Co,, 4.375%, 1986 .:
Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co,, · 4-5/S:C 1993
Southwest.e m Bell Telephone CaaJS117 4-3/4%, 1992
1
U,S, Treaa11r7 Bonda, 2-1/2$. 1972 - 1>7
U,S, Treas11r7 .B onda, 3-1/2%, 1990
Virgilli&ll Ila~ liGaJ>UIT, b%, 2008

50.00
•~12 m.66

~

100
200
lOO

. 45
200
100
100
lOO
200

lOO
200
100
200
200

.300
100

500

laerican Metal c:u.ax, Inc,, 4-l/2!/.
Aehl&Dd OU & Betinillg Co,, $1,50
Brietol~era Co,, 3-3/U
Canada 1>J7 Corp,, $4,25
l>u.quHlle Light Ccapazq' 12,10
llational GJ'peum Co, , 14, So

li&gara Mohawk Polier Corporation , 3.60%
llortbern State• Power Co, or iu-eota, 14.lO
Cklahama Gu a. Electric Co,,. U
Pacitic J:i&hting Corporation , 4.36%
Public Serrice Co, o! Indiana, 4.1"%
Public Serdce Electric a. Gae ~, $1.40
San Diego Gas & ·Electric Ca.pan;)', 5,6()%
Southern Calitornia l!dieon Cao.pan;)', 4,24$
Sw1ra7 1114-Continent. OU Co,, 4-J/2!/., A
Tid.,..ter. OU C!IDP8JV' ll.20
Union Pacific Railroad Ccapan;)'1 4%

t 10,S97.SS

6,061.:io

9,846.l!O
4,Sl7.00
10,625,35
10,492.45
9,095.85
10,222.18
3,937,28
10,000.00
5,231.48
3,~.48

4,S60.so

5,110.00
7,960.49
2,842.l.6
~.203.66

1119.510.43

PROCEEDINGS OP THI!.

C!IW!D LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CAUFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page 2
JUii& 30. 1959

COMMON STOCIC
~

50
l.00

200
75
60 .
1.35

278
200
320
lD2
98

4hO

90
286
41>7
85
300
192
175
.300
2Q1o

223
90
210
500
100
361
181
100
347

JO
115.
172
1lO
102
100
150
200
120
SOO
·218

Qffil
Allied Chemical Corp.
American Can eo.
Associated ll1'7 Good• Corp.
The Atlantic Ret'ining Company
Banker• Tru9t. Compeey ot' N..., York
Beatrice Foods C<11paey
Borg-Warner Corp.
Calit'omia Packing Corporation
Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp.
Chass Manhattan Bank
Chemical Corn El:cb&Dge Bank
Columbia Gu S7stem, Inc.
Consolidated F.dison Ccmp&JJ7 of Hw York, Inc.
Continental Baking Co,
Crocker-higlo llational Bank
DaTton Power & Light Compan;y
Duquesne Li&ht. Compan;y
General Public Ut111tiea Corp.
Home Imurance Comp&nT ot' I..., York
International Harvester Co.
IrvUig Trust Camp&J11' (Hw York}
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemioal CompeJl7
J4anut'acturers Trust Compe117
Minnesota Power & Li&lrt ComJl8Jl7
Montgomery Ward & Comiaey, Inc.
Morgan Ouarant7 Trust Co. ot' Nw York
Bev En&land Electric S)'llts
lliagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Horth American Aviation, Inc,
llorthern States Power Co, ot' llinnesota
Owens-Illinois Glass Compaey
Pacit'ic Gu and Electric Compao;r
Public Service Co. ot' Indiana
Public Service Electric & Gas Canpalt7
Southern Calit'ornia Edison Compao;r
Sperq Band Corporation
Standard Brands, Inc.
Standard Oil C<1Rpeey (New Jersq}
Standard Oil Compaa;y (Ohio}
SllDl'a;r Kid-Continent 011 Co,
.
Vieconein liaectric Power Compe117

• 3,642.46
4,513.18
7,173.50
2,457.04
2,7)0.00
.1 ,254,45
13,411.87
4,643.25
3,421.60
3,154.76
3,749.00

7,908.28

2,926.62'

10,964,16
6,856.59
3,218.53
4,179,50
4,152.78
7,233,60
13,449.63
6,545.38
2,61.).87
2,385.00
3,593.37
17,149.00
8,447.40
4,774.47
4,295.78
3,523,94
31586.91
1,095.20
3,915.1.0
4,691.16
2, 744,55
J,5~A.24

11797.75
3,426,99
10,500.91
4,562,62
13,526.57
4.307.79

MAL C!J!!gl STOCIC

t224.ll3.90

TOTAL STOCXS - PREFERR!D AND COIOIOJI

U43.62J+.33

TOTAL INVESTMENTS

305

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ClB.AllD LOD<JE. F, & A, M. OF CALIFOJUIIA

SCllJIDUIJI 3

CO!ITRIBUTIOHS Rll:EIV<D FROM L(!lG&S
GRAii> J:,OOGE SUPPORT AND ACT MTIES:
Huter Masom on June JO, 1958
WI: Ht!mber• whose duee were
remi1rt.ed
lfmber• paid !or, per 1958
annual returns
A!!!a1 A.djustaell\ t'or preYious )'ll&rll
On degreea cont'erred in year
anded June JO, ·1958

nAR 1!2iDED J!!JIE JO

I

l.9S9

237,654

.....la.W.
234,541 O tl,25 each

1293,176.25

1293,~:~
23,053 O 11.oo each

MASONIC HOMES CJl1 CALIFORNIA COlft'!UB!!TIOllS 1
On Muter lfasons at June JO, 1958
per 1958 annual returns
234,541 Cl t.50 each
Contributions ot' initiates and
at.tiliates 11 t25 .00 each:
Final Jl1111119nta !or year ended
June J0,1958, per 1958
annual returns
t 67,125.00
Instalment ~enta on 1959
annuaJ. returns
·
141.l.QQ.OO

.lo!!!: A.djuahents t'or pre-d.OUll
years am retunda

23.053.00

•111,210.50

t208,225 .oo

1.095.00
207.lJO;OO

CALIFORNIA KASCllIC MD!ORIAL 'mlPI.E CO!iTRIBUTIOKS:
On Master Masons at June 30, 1958,
per 1958 annual returns
234,541 o ti.oo each
Contributions ot' InitiatH
O t9.00 each1
r1nal ~nt !'rwa year ended
June JO, l958, per 1958
annual returns
• 21,708.00
Inst.aluot. .pe;pment.s on 1959
annual ret urna
~.270.00
•
,978.00
Leu: Adjuataants t'or preYiO'IMI
-·year• aD1 rat'lmta
396.oo

301,123,00

GIDiGE WASllIB<mlN lfASQllIC llAUORAL Xli1llRWe

CONTRIB!!TIOIE:
Contributions of Initiates O t1.oo each:
Final PQMnt t'r<lll 7ear ended
J11D8 JO, 1958 annual. returns
Inatalment pqMDta on 1959 annual returns
~' Adjuet.lllmta t'or preYiou .year•

aD1 ret'unda

•

2,415.00.

•

5.032.00
7,447.00

le§.00
7,329.00

TO?AL C!!lrJUBUTIOllS lUXJEIVm PROK WlGES {Exhibit B}

306

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Gl!ARD' ~.E 1 F, &. .t. 1 !L OF ClLIFOIOlli

~......!t

.t.DKDIISIJ!ATIVE .A.Ill CJl'F!!1J l!:tPE?6B

307

QIWID ·LOOGl! 1 F1 &. .t. 1 K. OF Cl.Ul'a!l!Y.

SCHlll!la ~
Page 1

Ill.TIS AS 5HCllll
GENERAL EXPENSE

lEAR ENDED

C!!!fWD m'.!! lUn~ m!
SalAlriH
11.eut.

Grand I.od&e O!!ices - T•ple
Operation am Maintenance
kpenee
Alldit
Grand Treasurer
Polltage and ellpZ'H•
Telephone and telegraph
Social eecurit7 and un•plo)'IH!lt
taxes
In.eetment. C011D11el
11.etiremint pend.on plan Grand Loda• office •pl.07eee
Pmiaion legal a:penee
Qrand Lodge or !ice moving
expene•
TOTAL (lll!!bi~ I!)

~ W:ml BUDGBT
iee
· Clrand Lodge O!!icea - t ...ple
Operation and Kailltenance
lllltpeue
.Audit
Qrand Treasurer
Polltage and !IXPZ'eN
Telephone -And telegraph
S<>eial aecurit;r and un•plo)'llent
taxea
IAveat.M$ couneel
11.etir-$ peneion plan - Grand
Lodge o!!ioe •Jlla7eea
p.,.icn legal upenae
lletir-$ penai~ plan aployee• other it.genciea

Mftiom.l!faster
authorised bJ'

!!!!!! lQ, i~m

JUJIS l!!. 12~§

~

~

$67,148.17

t60,218.55
6,385.00

• 6,929.62

•

.6,38S.OO

18,000.00
2,soo.00
125.00
3,216.99
2,965,118

2,500.00
100.00
2,534.30
1,941.83

25.00
682.69
1,024.05

2,058.17

l,S00.38

557.79

soo.oo

1,100,00

18,000.00

soo.oo

250.00

.•§

~:z2.~~

~
$67,148.17

BUDG&'l'

• 68,400.00

18,000.00
2,soo.00
125.00
3,216.99
2,965,118

18,ooo.oo
2,soo.00
250.00
3,300.00
3,600.oo

2,058.17

2,000.00
soo.oo

soo.oo

1,100,00

3,675112

l.ia1l•2·•~

&10,310.12

m!

UJIDE!l
• 1,251.83

•

125.00
83.0l
634.12
sa.17

16,ooo.oo
1,100.00

tm,s50.oo
l,.l.QQ.00

,22.~~·"

~;u.a.6~.gg

~

• 12,774.95
4,'45.93

• 17,605.98
3,011.66

•

• 4,831.03

expense
Grand Organist. and Grand Tiler

9,990.47
7SO.OO

6,486.53
750.00

·aiid llliaoelia.neoue expense ·
Investment. couneel !or lodgee
Portrait ot Grand Kaster
bpreeentativee 1 .Ueage

10,000.00
5,000.00
925.00
34,957.79
23,194,26

10,000.00
4,000.00
925.00
34,035.97
23,464.68

600.oo
1,996.99

600.oo
1;612.41

384.58

12,476.42

477.47

96.72
900.00
2,621..70
3,680.32

803.28

l,Q00.00

·-~ .• ~a.;u

Qrand IActurer

Inepectore 1 apron• &111. •tationery
Bitual ccmaittee and inepectore'
·conterence and travel ezpense
12,953.89
White aprana Grand Lodge
900.00
Betir•ent p&1'
900.00
Veteran butt.one
2,548.i.o
Supplies and miecel.l&neoWo
3,192.21
Portaouth Square Hist.ori!'&l
lfa.rker
Memorial TeaPle dedication
20,242.35
Insurance
Workmen' a compeneation tor
2,501.05
l.od&e•
1'1delit;r Bond
2,566,18
Jfiecellaneona
639.01
TOTAL (E?shibit B)

16,000.00

!,QQQ,OO
$97,614.21

~

llCl!P.t.mD WI'nl PREVIOUS iFAR
Annual C0111DW!ioation
Conterence•
Grand Lodge o!ticere tranl

Printing.

1,100.00

•2:z.~;i.t.. 6t

!!!!!!I lQ I J.2~§

Grand Mast.er• a tranJ. secretarial

250,00

•12,92),96

OATIS .AS SHCMJI
IEAR ENilml
JUllE JQ, ;!.~2

.Bitual.1111:.ic kpenee:

~.6z~.12

ud

.WA&

n.t.R l!lllll!D

1i59,rza,!t§

IElR ENill!I>

l,27i..27

3,S03.9/.

1,000,00

921.82
270,42

73.30

i.118,11

3,502,33
342,65

19,899.70

5,768.92
2,566.18
6J2.Ql

sm,91tu2

$Jl,l@,2'j

3,502,33

3,:ll.7.87

'12·!.33106

308

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GIWID L(l!G!. f, le A, H.

or CALIFa!RIA

YE.\R DIDID JU1il 30. 1959

ACTUAL
CCJIPA!m! WITH BUDGEl'
Annual. Coalllunieat.ion
Conferenc es
a..am Lodge otticm• t.ra-,.l
. e:r:penH
Grand Organist a111nJrand. Tiler

Grand Kast.er 1 1 t.raTe)o eecr.t.ari al
am llliacell&neoua expense
lnveatlllent. counael tar lodge•
Portrait ot Grand Kaster
Jlepreeen tatina' mileage
Priming
litualiati c u:penae
Grand Lec:t.urer
wpec:t.or •' aprons and
8tat.ion8l'J'
litual ocmaitt.e• azid
inepec:t.ore• contarence .and
t.ranl e:r:penae
·Whit.• aprons Grand Lodge
Ret.iremeat pq
Veteran buttons
Supplies and miscellaneoWI
Memorial Temple dedication
Inaurance1
Workmen 1 e ce111pensat.ion tor
lodge•
Fidelit;y bond
Hiacellane oua

• 13,000.00
~ •.000.00

9~'!90.47

1,soo.00

10,000~00

5,000.00
925.00
34,957,79
23,194,26

•

•

225.05
654.07

5,000.00
925,00
42,21
305,74

23,500.00

1,996.99

1,?So.00

12,953.89

13,000.00

900.00
900.00
2,5411,40
3;192.21
20,242.35

900,00
900.00
3,ooo.oo
3,500.00
20,000.00

2,so1.05
2,566.1.8
6J2,Ql

6,000.00
2,800.00

t1so,m.i .e

•154,375,0 0

246.99
46,ll
451.60

'J0?.79
242.35
3,498.95
233.82
~

1.2~Q.Q2

2,zz2.~

$.i.222.11•

SQUDOLI

&6,J76,J3

6

Paa• 1
!UB!!Sflj APPJ!OP!!UTIO!§

DlTIS AS SHOO!

XDll EIIDl'll
JUVE J!!, 12~2

IlWl EllDID

=lJm!! J!Z I 12~

ll!a!.!Y!

!!&!la

t 3,523.Sl
:ua.97
µ5,97

•

728.34
6la.66

• 4,36.1.80
767.41
357,61
739,13
694,57

{.3,457,55)

(9,226.42)

S,764,_,

!1Q!!fARID WITH HmVIrul I1'IJl

.2,i.20.u

35~000.00

I

Uli!lnt

10,000~00'

600.oo

••11.~2a.wa

Qll!l

1so.oo

600.00

Additiona l authorized b;y
Clrand !faster
~

BIJDGEr

• 12,774.95
4,345.93

1so.oo

G!!AllD LOOqg. f, .. A K. OP CALIPapll l

SCHllDULB 5
Page 2

G!JIZllAL ElPD$I

309

.lc:t.irlt.ie s Coaoittee
Board ot Control
Chart.era Camm1ttee
Columbia Temple Coaoitt.M
Cocmt.itut.ion Obaer'Vabce COlmit.t.ff
Correapondence CcmmdttM "C&litorn ia Preeuaan•
De lfola;y ·Cammittff
m.pl.o;rment Bur•ua
EDdOVMAt. Board
Hilltor;y Ccmoit t.ee
Coaaitt.ee on Reaearcll
Lod;ge financing Colllllit t.M
lf.ellOrial T•pl.e
Public School.a Soholareh ip
bard
cci.itt.M on Public Sclloola
~e ot lleliet - ll•abur•• ent
tor Sojournez'a
Ccmittee Oil c-ciali m.
Sqjourner e Camm1ttee
Uninre:!i.;y ' ClabbpuaH I
Berkele;y
Loe Angele•
Cod• . C<lamiaeion
Clr&J!d. Lodge Liti&&t.ion
Innat.aent . c:.-ll.tee
Reliet Fund - Clrand Kaster
C-1.ttee on MUon.ic c-t.eries
Coaitt. .. on Vuual Aida
lllltual Aid Aaaociatio n
Camm1tt.ee
Collmlbia Briolc School llolui•
Rest.oratio n
ec-itt.. on Local r..,u.
.Finance a

• 7,867.31
1,086.)S

483.SS

590~34

75.91

l.84.1.8

u,soo.oo
14,593.89
733.16
2,000.00
2,015,39
12,993.22

1,996.74
2,221.87
J4,712.53

1,538,59

1,000.00
1,892.47

419.l.8
612.71
)08.84

82.42
1,60).06

336.76

15.24

293.60

18,100.00
18,100.00

17,soo.oo
17,soo.oo

600.00
600.oo

3,355.85
204.91
875.00
i.o.so

103,41

JOS,32
595.00
18.SO
129.57

u,iso.oo

u,m.96

is.oo

350.00
2,593.93

133.l.6

3.26

~.~J ...,

..

206.41

1,719,31

,,,

1,000.00

129.5'7
43.)S

l;J.~l.J~i.§~
TO't.lL (E!hibit. B)

406.16

10.79

99C>.35

15.00
3,355.115
280.00
22.00
A,J.)S

soo.oo

50(),00

11§~.l.l

....la§.W.l

-~.i:iSil.~i

~~~ fra~.;i.~

-~.g~.ga

310

· PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

G!W!D L!l)(}E. f, & A. H. OF CALllOR!!IA

311

Gl!All! LCl)GE, f, & A, H. OF CALIFO!!!IA

scemuu: 6

SClll!llULE 7

Page 2

YF.\R ENDID JUllE 30. 195.9

DPEllSB AffflOWTIONS.

~

!9!!!!1
COMPA!Wl WITH BUD9f1!'.
Activities Colllllittee
Board ot Control
Chart.er• Comittee
Collllllbie Temple Comadt. tee
Con.etitut.ion Obael'YIU>Ce
·committee
Correspondence Comlittee "Calitomia Freemason"
Dellola,r ec-ittee
:&l.plo71Rent Bureaµe
Board

End~

Hist.oey C._tttee
Cmmi.ttee on Research
Lodge F1Danciq Commi.ttee
Memoriel T•p]A
Public School.a Scholarship
Award
Cmmi.t tee on Public School.a
Boa.rd• ot Rallet l!eimburscm tor Sojourners
C~ttee on c-erciallllll
Sojour1111rs Colllnittea
lln1Tereit7 Chlbhouees:
Berkele7
Loe Angeles
Code cm.iaeion
Grand Lodge Litigation
luTeirtment· C-1ttee
l!ell•t Fund - Grand Kaster
Colllllittee on Masonic Cemeteries
Ccmmittee on Visual Aids

• 7,&!7.31
1,086.38
483.58
728,34

8,500,00
1,250,00
500,00
2,000.00

•

•

612,69
163.62
16.42
1,271.66

750.00

131.34

(3,457,55)
590,34
i.1,500.00
14,593.89
'733.16
2,000.00
2,015,39
12,993.22

2,000,00
750.00
ll,500.00
13,500.00
750.00
2,000.00
2,800.00
13,000.00 .

5,457.55
159.66

1,538.59

2,000.oc
2,500.00

419.18
612.71 ·
308.84

425.00
1,750.00
100.00

18,100,00
18,100.00

·18,100,00
18,100,00
150.00
1,000.00
500,00
750.00
250.00

3()8,32
595.00
18.50
12~M7

Additional authorized b7
Or-and Huter

l;i.gQ .~:z.:c

~

12,500.00

12,soo~oo

Fllirlg cabinets

lll.13

225,00

Metal tables

127.10

250,00

Steel shelTiq

565.85

865.00

Steel lock dravere

155.lD

140.00 .

RaeerTe tor tuture requir-nte

2;000.00
961.41
5.82
1,1:37.29
208.84

150.00
1,000.00
191.68
155.00
231.50
320.!+3
~

~

~

__£Qa22

·~

·~

16,84
784.61
6.78

m.122

$105,425.00
1.302.73

·~•.:11J.iJ

l,093.89

YEU ENDID JUJIE 3Q. 1959

COMPJ.Rm WITH BUD9f1!:
Otfset press

~

m&

618.66

$91,903.·43

~

•

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND l!EPIACp!ENTS

IM.,821.,JQ

~

.QY!;!I

•

~

•

113.87

122.90
299.15
15.10

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AUDIT OF ANNUAL RETURNS
.l:qu1t 19, 1959

The Mo•t ltol"Shiptul Gram Lodge ot
Free and Accepted Muons or the
State or California
Calitorrxia Masonic Memorial T111pll
llll Calitorni& Street
San Francisco 8 1 California

cMntlemen1

We have lll&de an examination .or the 1959 Annual Returns ~ the
Constituent Lodges or Gi-and Lodge, 1. a. A. M. or Calltorni&, report!~ on
membership and on the pa,Jllenta due Grand Lodge in accordance with the
proviaiona ~ the Cons ti tut.ion and Ordinances and the action taken b7 Grand
Lodge at the 1958 annual cOlllllllnication,

Our exaaination was mad• in accordance

with g-r~ accepLed aiiditing stllJldarda, and accordin£17 included auch tNta
or the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered
neceas&l7 in the circumstance•.
The total p&111ents due Grand Lodge, baaed upon the 1959 annul.
returns, &lEunt to f950,545.25, as shown b7 the accoapall7ing stat-nt,
marked Exhibit A.

At the date or this report, Avcust 19, 1959; this amount.

•

had been collected in tull and tramterred to the Grand Treasurer, with the
excepLion or a balance or .2,150,25 arising from necess11l7 adjust.mllnta in the
returns.

This balance llaS in proceu or adjustment and collect.ion at the date

or this report.
Respecttull7 submitted,

~cf~
Public Account.ant.a
Cert.Hied

313

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CllAND LODGB, P', & A, K, OP' CALIFa!NIA

P'ISCAL IBAll

lls:lfli

YEAR E!l)ED
BllDillNIIG
JUll! JO, 1959 JULI l, 1959

GRAND UllGB Slll'l'alT .A1ll) ACTIVITIES 1
Ka1ter Kaoone on June JO, 1959
240,392
1!!.!• Kembere of Research
Lodges
~

Clentl•eDI
lie have exaained the etat•ent ot aaeete, liabilitiea, reHrne, and

~

Balance ot 11elllber1

2.36,691 0 I 1,25

'295,86), 75

1295,86J.75

Degrees conferred in ;rear ended
.Jun• 30, 1959

21,248 0 I 1,00

21 1:!/t8 1 00

21,~.QQ

1317,lll,75

1317.lll,75

Contributions ot Initiate•
and Attillatea

lla•onic Homes or Cal.il'omia
California Kaoonic Memorial T911pl•
llll California Street
San Francisco 8, Cali!ornia

tund bal&Dcee ot llaoonic Home• ot Cal.il'ornia, a Calltoruia non-profit corpore.tion,

Member• other than ot Reee&rch
Lodges
Ii!!!• Jlai>er• tor "'1oa per
capita 'Waind
(including clues
....i.tted)

Ml.SONIC HClllS fl CALIF<JlliIA
CONTRIBllt'IONS 1
Kaster lla•one on June 30,
1959, ae above

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

IIHIBIT A

STATl!MENT OP' 1959 ANNUAL RETURNS

Ta?AL P1!R
1959 ANNUAL
RETt.&INS

315

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ae ot June JO, 1959, and the related etat...ent ot revenue and expenee tor the

240,128

7ear then ended,

Our aaaination wae ude in accordance with gen•rall7 accepted

auditilla standard•, and accordingl7 included such teete ot the accounting recorcla
and euch other auditing procedure• ae w considered neceeearr in the cirC11111tancea,
The ~,financial etat•ent• ot llaeonic Homes ot California ban
been prepared tor llllJl7 7ear1 on the caeh basis ot accounting, and th• attached
financial etat-.te are prepared on that basia,

Under the cash ba1i1 ot

accountilla, revenue and mcpenee are recorded upon the book• ot accowit and
retlected in the financial etat-nte -..hen received and paid without regard to

.50

lll8,345 .• 50

8,213 0 125,00

20~ 1 l2~ 1 00

'11J.,;i.oo ,co

~.22~.QQ

1323.670.50

ll41 11QQ 100

1182,570, 50

236,691 0 I

lll8,345.50

I

th• period to ... ich th97 a1'Pl7.
The total revenue receind b7 Kaaonic H?"'"" ot Calltornia during the
J'91r ended ~ JO, 1959, ..,unted to 1802,148.61, ao shown on Exhibit B.

Ite

operating upeneea tor the 7"&r U101111ted to 1944,J69.JJ, reeulting in an exceoe
C.Y,IP'<RHIA MASONIC llB!«J\Iil.
Tl!XPIB CO!IIRIBll'l'IONS:
Kaeter Kaeone on June JO,
1959, ae above
Coatriblitiona ot Initiatee

Clla!GB WASHINGTON lit.SONIC
llATIONAL KEIDl!!!c CQNTRIBUTIOKS:
Contribution• or Initiatee
TOTAL

ot operating expe111e ot 1142,220,72. Gain tl'Olll the a&l!I ot eecuritieo UK>unted
236,691 0 I 1,00

'236,691.00
6~ 1 Z6l 1 00

il~.no,oo

20,/!2l100

IJ02 1 @te00

I /!5,no,oo

1257, 18;.<)Q

7,'J(;ff 0 I 2.00

7 ,309 o I l.oo

'236,691.00

I

I

7 1 309 1 00

l!l5Q Sl.5 25

I

s,on,oo

IJ ~J i!C2 !ll

I

2,2n 1 00

•z~~ 11.J 2~

to 1109,3.38.~, resulting in a tinal exceee ot 132,882.22 ot expenae over revenue
including &&in troll the sale ot Hcurities, ae ehovn on Bl:!Jibit B.

Included ill

316

- )

-2the operating expensee ot 1944,)69.)), 1e the sum ot SJ0,261.81, representing
the voluntaey contribution• to Maeonic lbmes ot Calitomis Retirement Income
Plan.

The total amount paid ot U0,261.81 compriee• the balance ot th• contri-

bution tor the calendar ,.ar 19S8 ot l13,2S9.26 computed at the rate ot SlS.l$

the invest.ent in auch propert7 at June )0, 1958 amounting to S3,272,9l9.27,· wa•
transferred trom the General Fund to a Propert7 i'llNi account.

the tirat Ux month• ot 19S9 ot t17,002.ss ao an advance ~ent toward the total

or dnelcpaent ot Kaeonic Homee not allccated to Resenes tor Special PurpoMa.
The ftlu• ot land, buUdings, and equi1D9nt as ahollll in th• Propert7
Fund, Exhibit A, at June )0, 19S9 ot $),67),l69,71, rapreoenta the coat "'1en

or1g1.nal.J.7 purcbaaecl.

amount .We in the calendar ,.ar 19S9.
'!he total amount ot the General Yunc1 1.nnsted 1n securities at June )0 1
l9S9, amo1111ted to S2,)Sl,S6S.86, aa 1ho1111 on Exhibit A, an increase ot '48,992.7)
oTer tbs amount at the begimlin& ot th• period.

Securities purchased are stated

Securities receind as donations are

atated at market ftl.ue when receiTed or at the nominal Talue ot ll.00, it the

The purpoae ot

the change 1e to ehow in the General Fund the amount available tor operations .

ot the P911'0ll ot participating emplc;rees under the plan and a contribution tor

on the book• and in tb1e report at coat.

317

GRAND LODGB OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

In aocordanc• with the consietent pollo7 or tlM 'l'l-llat.M•,

depreciation ot buildings and equipaant 1a not proTidecl tor in tbe aceounta.
Replacements ot original iteu ara charged to the Reserve• t~ Special Purpoeee.
During the current J'e&l' additiono to the Decato Hoi.e UW>UDtecl to S~0,4SS.l) and
additions to the Corlna Home ...,unted to Sl69, 79S.)l aa ahollll on Bxbibit C.

The

total coat ot th• add1tio119 ot Sl.00,2S0.44 was charged to the tollow1.nc Rea.,..,.•
tor Special Purpo1ea1

aarket ftl.ue - • not lmlnm.

Resern tor 1ddit.1ons &Dd lleplac-te
Corl.na Special lieaern
Decoto Spacial Bee.,..,.
Nev lloapit.al ReeeMe

The ...unt ot ll02,)56,6S ahollll as notao and contract• receiTabla on

Bxhibit A ari..• troa oalea ot real eotate aooigned tc Haeonic Jloae• ot Calitomia

'b7 applicant• adaitted to the home at Decato.

tua,868.06
15S,2S? .31.
l,716.00

12J..1.09.0lt
$1+00 2'jQ

The Other Aaeete ot '4,flrt.27 abown on .lzhibit A, coneiet ot real eetate

'*

On April , 9, l9S9 a contract - • dgned with Svinertca ., llal.bel'I Oo.

.

and lite innJtnc• policiea aaeiped to Kaeonic Hoaeo ot Calitomia 'b7. reoidento

in the 111111>unt ot Sl,18),)8S.OO tor the construction ot a l)l bed hospital

ot the Deco to eo...

buUding at the Decato lb..

The 1nd1T1dual parcel• ot real .. tate and Ute insurance

policie• are each recorded at the no&i.nal Talue ot Sl.00 tor account.billtJ', with

At June )0, 19S9 th• general contractor bad

completed work on the buUding eetillated at ll09,8S9.9f..

lluonic . - . ot

the m:ception that p!111111Dta 'b7 llaeonic lbaea on lcane obta1necl 'b7 the aaaignore

Calitornie bad paid at June )0, l9S9 '62,29).51 on th• contract.

ot auoh real ea ta te or Jl'.Dlloiea ara added to the DOll1nal. Talue.

19S9 and Auguet 14, l9S9, additional uiount.a ot S36,580.44 and '39,613.U.

Tb• proceecla

On Juq 10,

tr<a the •ale ot t.hie real eotate and tr<a the lite insurance policie• are oredited

respectinq wre paid to the contractor on account ot progreae wort:.

direct.J.7 to one ot the Besern• tor Special i'nrpoH as directed bJ th• Trueteea.

bllilding ia ocmpl.eted 1ndereon-11Jde-1Ddereon will be paid approxiaat•l.7 121.000.00

Th• Board ot Trustee• ot Kaeonic Hoaaa ot Calitomia on Septaber 28,
l9SS, cl1.rected that a Propert7 !'I!"" account be eetabliehed to reflect the in•.,.taent ot the lloaea in land, buildi.nga, and equii-ent.

Pureuant to thie diraetift,

1a th•

tor the balance ot their tee tor aerrlce• ae architects .and engineen tor th•
boe_pit.al.

318

319

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

- s-

-4 The buildillgo and contents ot the Decoto and CoTina llo11e1 are inoured
tor tire, with extended coverage, in the amount ot $6,4ll,OOO.OO.

lie were

advioed that ..alu&tiono are rni.,,.d annuaU, tor inaurance purpoaH b7 tbe

1•r, are ehow on the attached balance •hHt aa •a...rne tor Special PurpoHa•.
The aaoeta represented b7 th••• reaerns are · included in the aeoete ot the Gemral

Fund, •bow on Elchibit A.

The actiTitiea ot theee reseMea during the period are

ahow on Schedule 4.

insurance brokers.

In our opin1on, aubject to the toreaoing C01a1Dte, the accompaZQ'ina

F.ndo1'111&nt and t.ru.•t tund• held bJ th• llaaonic Home• ot Calltom1a
UIDunted to a total ot $9,666,SJJ.Sl at June 30, 19S9, as abolm on l!:mibit A
and •~iHd on Bxhibit D.

Ot tbeoe tunda 19,109 1 024,87 vea in the Permanent

atai-nt• preHnt tairl,r the aeaeta, liabllitiu, reael'Yea, and fund bal.anaH ·

ot llaeonic llcmee ot Calltorni& at June 30, 19S9 arieing troa caah tranaactiona,
and. the rennuee collected and expenoeo diabureed bJ it and the oban&e• in fund

increased bJ $94S,?66.32 during tbe current 7~ bJ clonationa, bequeate, and

balances during the Jll&r then ended, on a basie conoietent with that ot the

The other •ndo••nt and. truat .fllnd• increaaed

pNceding ,..r u:cept tor the Chana• (with "1ieb ,.. conam') due to th• transfer

during tbe J8&r bJ the aggregate sua of '8,321.Sl due prillar~ to ga1m troa

ot the inveotaent in land, buildinga, and equiim-nt trca the General Fund to the

gaina troa aale• of oecnri ties,

•al• ot Hcuritieo.

A deao17ipt1on of each of tb'I end..-nt tunda, toget.bel'

Propert7 Fund,
lie attach the follov1na tor 70ur intomation:

with a balance ab••t, and, were appropriate, a stat-..t of t.be related ,..,._,
ia •bow OD lxbibite. r to II, incluain.

EXHIBIT A

STATl!>IENT OF ASSETS, LI.ABILITIES. 1!i5E!1VES,
AND FUlill BALANCES

EXHmIT B

STATD!ENT OF REVENUE AllD EIPlllSE Gli2WIAL P'UllJ)

In addition to the endo-nt and trv.at tunda ot llaaonio 8-~ ot
Calltol'nia, the Superintendent ot th• CoYina Home acts ae trustee on t1ft7... 1gb~
children'• aaTinga accounts llhich at Juoe 'JO", 19S9 bad balance• aggregating

$8, T19· si.

GENERAL FUND

'?heae eaTinga accounts are aavillg• ot the Children originating bJ

41tt or earninp.

llitbdrew.lo can oolT be aade b)' the child with tile counter-

•i&D&tnre ot th• S..perintendent ae truetee,

EXHIBIT C

JUNE 30. 1959

ie not reoorded on tb• boolca ot llasonic llcaae ot Calltond&, or on tile attacbM
balance llbHt, eince tile .. eavinga accounts· are not an aeeet or trust .tund ot

ENDOO!l!NT AND TRUST FUJiDS

JUNE 30. 1959

RP.SERVES FOR SPECIAL PUllPOOES

JUNE 30, 1959

l'KllKAlmiT EllDOllMEliT FUllD OF
MASONIC HCll&S OF CALIPOBNU
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND PUND !W.A!!CI
STA'll!MlllT OF REVElllll

llaaonic lloMo ot Cal.1tom1a.
'?he Tl"ll•t••• ot Ma110nic iloMa ban Htabllabed anen apeoial rHv-

aagregating $2,216,861,29 at June 30, 19S9, a net increue ot IS,412.12 tor t.be

JUNE 30, 1959

?EAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 1959

to ' llhich are credited the amount• ot dona ti.one and bequeota Whiob are to be ued

Tbeee reHl'ft8, with b&lancH

n:AR l!ll!ED
JUNE 30. 1959 .
YEAR ENDED
JUKE 30, 1959

JU:J°~9

The amount ot th•.. aaTinp acoollllt•

tor Pll"P"..• other than dil'ect operating upenaea.

JUH! 30. 1959

IWUBIT G

JOllJI AJID LENA WCKENBACH FU11D
STATOOliT OF ASSETS AllD FUND BAL.UICI
STATDll>HT OF REVENUE

JIJHE 30. 1959
!EAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 1959

320

-7-

- 6Gl!ORGI F. BRIGllAJI AJID LAURA I. BRIGllAK
SCHOLARSHIP FUND
STA= OF ASSETS A11D PUllD BALANCI
STA
OF llS'@iUE
EXHIBIT I

KXHIBIT l

EXHIBIT L

ElllIBIT 11

JUNE 30. 1959
!EAR ENDED
JU)!E 30. 1959

IL\JIRIET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMl!NT ANNUITY P'UllD
STA'l'IHl!NT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCI
STATl!!!!!l!T OF A!OO!ITIES AND REVl!llUE
C. II. FLIIT TRUST PUID
STJ.Tl!!!!!NT OF ASSETS A!ID PUllD BALAHCI
STA TDIENT OF l!SVl!liUK

IBOIWID GliOSS llDIOIUAL FtJllD
STATEMENT OF ASSETS .um FUllD BALAllCI
STATElllllT OF IDM!li1JK

JUllE 30

1959
!EAR ENDl!D
JUNE 30. 1959
I

JUNE 30 1 1959
!EAR EllDED
JUliE 30. 1959
JUlll 30. 1959

!EAR ENDED
JUNE 30. 1959

JUNE 30. 1959
!EAR ENDED

.rurra 30. 1959

S'llJDENTS 1 LOAli AlllD SCHOLARSHIP FUJID
STATl!!!!!l!T OF ASSITS AND PUND BAl.AlfCE
STAT!JIKllT OF !!§'ll!N!!!

JUllE 30 I 1959

ll!Sllll!NTS' DIPOSITS
STATl!!!!!l!T OF ASSETS AllD FUllD BALANCE
STATli11Bft OF !!SV1N!JB

JUlll 30. 1959

SCll!DUa l

~

JUNE 30 I 1959

SCllEDlJL! 2

Dm'?lm!TS
(Consolidated schedule ol ilml•t.llente,
ezcept tor iDveotaents ot the
Pen11a11ent Endo'lml9Dt Fund)

JUNE 30. 19S9

INVESD!EllTS
PE!!!W!ENT ENDClllllDl T PUND O't
llASONIC llClll!S OF CALll'ORllIA

Jijlll 30 t 1959

lW!IBIT II

SCllKDULK 3

SCllEDULK 4

ll&SERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

SCHEDULI 5

EXPENSE - CO!IPARATIVI

JUNK 30. 1959
FISCAL !EARS ENDED

JUNE 30, 1959 and l958

grrpl!GB !!. AlllD F:Wll!!!ICI G. PK1W1E
lllDOWMl!llT PUllD
STATBlllNT OF ~ AllD PUllD BALANCI
STATDIENT OF l!EVp!!B

EXHIBIT J

321

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

!EAR EllDED
J\1111 30. 1959

YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30. 1959

le1pecttul.17 oubmitted,

Certified Public Accountant.a

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASOllIC HOMES Of CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A

STAT&\ENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES,
JUN! 30. 1959

RESERVES I AND FUND BALAJIC:SS

ASSETS:

.

GEliERAL FU!lll

~I

2,.3Sl,S6S.86
l02,JS6.6S
'

4,6.31.27

46.00

Total As sets - Gener&l Fund

$ 2,816,877.4S

12, 70S, 72S.87
96.3,27S.08
4.168.76

Adjustments !or prnioue :run

Penaanent EndolClent Fund i.Dco• - Exhibit P
John and Lena Luckenbach Pund incoM - lillhibit G
Leonard Grosa K1111Dri&l Fund inco• - l!::xhibit L
P.,_nt• through Lodges !or1
1>1coto
Covina

' '16,0,36. 50

Revenue !rom savings and inveetaent11
Dividends on stocka
Interest on bonds
Interest on bank accounts
Interest on notes and real ••tit• incoM

' 7.3,890.61
29,151.ll
2,888.87

9.666.513.81

Operation at Masonic Homes•
Deco to
Covina
Relier outside ot Masonic Homes

Administrative and genlral
Retirement income plan

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES - Exhibit E

1959

u1,210.50
~.22~ 1 00

.32S,49S.50
l,Q2~,oo

.324,400.50
.323,SlJ.61
2,7.32.6S
lJ.88

.3S,79l.40

8,27l.~

114' 20!.. ll
l,/i~·~

BXPEllSB - Schedule 5 •

Total Kxpense o! Homes and lleliet

GENERAL F\Jllll - Exhibit B

I

12,2~.zi

Total Revenue

ENDOWMENT A!lll TRUST F'UNilS CONSISTING PRINCIPALLY OF

LIABILITIES I
Amount withheld !roa emploJlle& due pension trust tund

'
'
'

Miscellaneous revenue

Total Assets - Propert,r
CASH AND SECURITIES - Exhibit D

IEAR EllllED JUllK 30

19S8 Annual Returns • $.50 per capita
Contributions or initiatee and attlliat.. • 12s.oo each

$1,012, 262, Sl
481,900.12
857.403,23

4.671.27

PROPERTY - IE!hlbit Cl
Land, buildings, and eqW.iment (at initial coot no depreciation taken)a
l>ecoto Homo
·
Covina Home
San Francisco o!!ice

JaHIBII B

-ciraiid Lodge, F. a. A. II. 1

Total (market value 12.§A.401.27)
Notes and contracts receivable !ro• oalH ot l"9&l eotato
Other aaoeto:
Lite inourance policiea aoaJ.aned bJ res1.dent1 o! Decato
Real estate received bJ contribution

MASONIC HCl!l!S OF CALll"ORNU
STATl!HEllT Of REVENUE AND BXP1!NSJ -

REVENUK:

CUii - Schedule 1
Inveetaent1 (at book value) - Schedule 21
Bonde (market value 1927, 73.3 • 50)
Pre!er,..d stock (market ftl.ue 1419,146.7S)
Common stock (market value ll,274, 521.02)

323

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'

802,148.61

142,220.72

$S4S,29S.2.3
2.32' S47. 71
21,261,z~

$80S,60t+.70
108,502.82
l0,261.81

Total Expense

9441.369.~.3

.301.2.3

Excess or Kxpena•

2,216,861.29

GAIN PROK SA.LE OF SECURITil!S

'

1Q2,338.5Q

KICl!SS OF EIPl!HSE OVER llEVKllUS INCUIDillG GI.ill JllQI
SALE OF SF.cUIUTIES

I

32 882 22

529.714.CJ.?

Total Liabilities. lleeerne. and
General Fund
PROPER'l'f. l'UNll - Exhibit C

.3,67.3,169.71

ENDOWMENT MOD TRUST 1'1JllllS - Exhibit D

9.666.513.81
$16 156 560 97

GENERAL FUliD1
Baance June .30, 1958, representing tb9 cOllbined
amount or the ·General· and Prop1rt7 l'unda
~I Investment in land, build1n&a, and equii:aent,
at cost, tr&n.1!erred to Propert7 Fund at
direction or Board ot Trustees
Balance in General Fund, June .30, 1958

l.3. 905. 516.42

1

J,~2,212,27

Excess ot expense over revenue including gain
!rom sale or securities, ae above
BALANCE - GENERAL FUllD, JUNE 30, 1959

:32,s97.1s
J2,882.22

'

S'l2 :Zl.I.. !i3

324

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXHIBIT C

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

325

MASONIC HCllES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHmIT D

PBDPERT!:

JUNE 30, 1959

ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS

Balance, June .30, 1958

$3 ,272.919.27

Pennanent Endowment Fund of the
Masonic Homes of Caillornia - Exhibit F

$9,109.024.87

John &nd Lena wckenbach Fund - Sxhibit G

72,582.29

George F. Brisham. and Laura JI, Brigham
Scholarship Fund - Exhibit H

37,573,34

George M, and Florence G, Perine
l!ndo-nt Fund - Sxhibit I

20,000.00

!!!J!t

Additions to properties o! the Deco to Home:
Boiler room installation
Architect services !or new hospital
New hospital building - construction in progresa
Farm tractor
New root !or power house
Additional plumbing !acilitie•
Water and gas line piping
Additional electrical work
New cement !loor and drain•
Addition to !ourth t loor deck
Platform and catM&lk !or boiler room
Interior and exterior steamer
Electrical !ield survey !or hoepital
One-halt ton pickup truck
Tractor and tiller
Water softener equipDent
Additions to properties o! the Covina Home I
Farm building group construction
Ice !laker machine
Farm !ence
Cattle milk doors
FU. projector equipaeat
Additions to junior boys domto17
Cattle guard and planter
Fire 117drants and related underground piping
Laund1"1 dryer

Water coolers
Vacuum !or boiler cleaning
Total Additions During Year
Balance. June 30. 1959 - Exhibit A
PROPERTY ruND:
Investment in land, buildings, and equipDOnt rt
June .30, 1958 transferred !rom General Fund to
Property Fund at direction o! Board o! Trustees

Additions during :rear charged to the !ollovin.g reeerves:
Reserve tor Additions and Replac-nt• - Schedule 4
Corlna Special Reserve - Schedule 4
Decoto Special Reserve - Schedule 4
New Hospital Resern - Schedule 4
Total Additions
Balance, Jµpe 30, 1959

$ 88,101,41+
61,968,27
62,293,51
2,091,34
2,950,00
l,.381.97
l,257,22
l,010.oo
l,010.05
742.00
l, 756.80
l,716,00
ii.7.26
l,874.00

Harriet C, Wadleigh Endo,.,,.nt Annuity Fund Exhibit J

14,294.75

C. II. Flint Trust Fund - Exhibit Ir

367,870.65

Leonard Gross Mamorial Fund - Exhibit L

51+6 •.36
l.608.91
•

925,00

Students 1 Loan and Schola1'9bip Fund - Exhibit M

8,563.81

Residents' Deposits - Exhibit N

35.679.10

230,455,13

$1i.9, 781+.34
726.80

'IOT.4.L - Exhibit A

s.2~.45

$9 666 5J3 81

383.76
361,,00
269.45
181+.08
10,)79,00
l,108.80

EXHIBIT E

m.ro

BE.SERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

JUNE 30 1 1959

• 400,250,44

Reserve !or Additions and Replacements - Schedule 4

•

$3 673 169 71

Covina Special Reser.,.. - Schedule 4

332,51.11,21

Decato Special lleeene - Schedule 4

191,169.92

Funeral Reserve - Schedule 4

11,soo.oo

Entertaiment ReHrV8 - Schedule 4

2,087.28

Uneppropria ted Reeerve - Schedule 4

974,590,30

420,i.J

169.795.31

u.272.212.27
'

ll8,868.o6

155,257.34
l,716.00

124.402.91t
$

400.250.44

$J 673 l 69,71

Nev Hoapi t&l lleaene - Schedule 4
TOTAL - hhibit A

618,374.62

26.290.96
$2 216 861 29

326

MAC.ONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

JU!IE 30 I 1959

STAm-!ENT OF ASSSTS AND FUND !!ALANCE

I

~1,765.97

6,817.12
39,577.20

I

608,160,29

15,207 ,2Cll,,68

956ST3S1

2.W.,655.76

INVES'IMENTS Cat book nlu•~ Schedule 2:
Benda (aarkat value l/J,
.88)
ColllDOn stock (market value 122,479,00)

Principal ot l'llnd

Principal of Fund
BALANCE, JUNE 30. 1958
~· Loss frtia sale or eecuritiea

t72,793.65
2ll.36

BALANCE, JURE 30, 1959 - Exhibit D

$72 W.29

1958

STATEMENT OF RBVENUX

INCREASE IN M'D:
Donations made through Lodges
Beq11eat1
Gain trom sale ot eecurities
Xemoriala
Donation• rroa organisations and indirlduala

STA Tl!Mm T OF .ilEVIWUE
llEVEllUE:

~eat on bonds

REVENUE:
~st on bonds
DiTidends on atocka •
Interest on bank account

945.766.Jl

f.9. 102.024.ez
!EAR ENDED JUNB 30.

1959

I

142,363.96
174,533.111.
5,101.72
l,lli!;.Q2

I

m m 61

DiY1dond1 on stock
Interest on bank accounts
Interest on notes receivable
REVBNUB TRANSFERRED TO GEl>'llRA!. FUND mcOKE - Exhibit B

'43,728.ll
16.899.16

TOTAL ASSETS

22.430.57
f9 109 021. 87

BALANCB 1 JUNE 30, 1959 - Exhibit D

JUNE 30. 1959

Total Securities (market value 163, 985.§8)

8,478,434.01

Total Secµritiea (market value 19.087 .691.31)

BAUllC:S. JUD 30.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BAUNCE

CASH IN CROCKER-ANGLO NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS ACCOUN!'

l(JSCBI.LANEQUS ASSETS (at book nlue) 1
Notes receivable, fraternal death certificates,
illaurance policies, and leas a•
TOTAL ASSETS

EXllIBIT G

JOHN AND LENA WCKENBACH FUND

Tho principal or this l'und, a bequest ot Lena Luckenbach, is restricted l>T the tenaa ot
the will to be kept intact and the income ia restricted tor the benefit ot the care of
orphans or the aged in Masonic Homes in Southern California,

The principal of this l'und is re8tricted bT the Ordinances of Grand Lodge so that no part
or th• principal shall ever be expended tor UlT purpose, and the income therefrom shall be
uoed onl7 for the maintenance and operation or tho Masonic Homes at Decoto and CoTina,

INVESTMDITS at book yalue - Schedule I
Bond• market T&lue
,Sil, 71.17
Preferred a tock (market value 1846,4:37. 50)
Common stock C-rket Talu• t3 ,429, 582. 64)

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT I'

KASONIC HOKES 01' CALIPORHIA
PERY.ANENT DIDOWMENT FUND 01'

CASH IN SAVINGS ACCOUNTS:
Crocker-Anglo National Bank
Bank or America N. T. & S,A.
Pacific National Bank of San l'ranciaco

327

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO GENERAL FUND INCOMK - hhibit B

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 1 1959

I 1,497,23
887,60
347.82

• 2 732-65

328

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

329

lW!IBIT H

~C HOHBS 01" CALIFORNIA
GIOCRGE~IGHAK AND LA.ORA E, BRIGllAH
SCHOLARSHIP FUND

EXHIBIT I

The pr:l.DCipal of thi1 Fund, a bequest of Laura E, Brigham, ie held in trust as a scholar•hip
fund !or the benefit of the Covina Home reeidente, $25,000 of which mq be loaned !or that
purpoH, and th• inc.,.. ia restricted an1 IJlaT be used onlJ' !or prortding scholar1hips.

JURB 30. 1959

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUJiD BALA.llCE

STAI.liMDII or ASSETS AND l"lllD !!4UJICB

JIJIB 30, 19~

CASH Ill CBOCKm!-ANGLO NATIONAL llAJllC
SAVIllGB ACOOUNT

•

931.20

~TllEN'rS Cat book Yaluek- Schedule 21
• 3,447.60

CA511 Ill CllOCDR-ANGLO llATIONAL BANK SAVINGS ACCOIJN!'

nd1 (market Yalue Ji7,

8, 75 )

19,068.SQ

'l'OIAL ASsEl'S
DV&'itilllifS (at book Talus) - Schedule 21
Bonds (market Talue $25,592,93)
Preferred stock (market Yalue $2,687 ,50)
C...On stock (market Yalue $4,843, 75)

$29,654.95
l,071.39
3,399,40

Pr:lnoipal Of Fund

34.125.74

Total Securities Cmar1<et Yalue f.33.l.24.18)

BALANCE, JUllg 30, 1959 - .!mibit D
(Ho change took place in thie fund

'2Q 000 OQ

during the year ended June Jo; 1959 )

TOTAL ASSETS
STAT»miT or MVEliUE

Principal ct Fund
B~B,

JUll! 30. 1959 - B:xhibit D

liO cbaqie took place in tbia fund during the rear ended June 30, 1959}

STATl!l!IOO' OP REVENUl!:

~·
Interest on bonds
Dividenda on stock
Interest on bank account

lllNllllllE T!!ANSl"!RllED TO STUDENTS 1 LOAN ,\!!D
SCHOLARSHIP FUHD - ExhJ.bit M

Il!AR l!!!Dl!ll JUNE 30. 1952

~.

$37 m

J4

!FAR XNDID JIJlll" 30, 1959

•

399.78

I

525 ~

90.00
105.43

Interest on bonds
Interest on bank account

•

•

697.~

I

Zll

13.?J.
51

330

MASONIC HCl!ES OF CALIFOl!llU
HARRIET C, WADLEIGH EllDCM!mlT
ANNUITY FUND

MASONIC HOMl!S OF CALIFORNIA.
C, N. FLINT TRWT FUND

EDIIBIT J

Thie Fund, in the oM&inal U10unt or tlo,000.00, ia aubjeot to a contract with the donor

CASH DI CROCl'J!a-.UIGLO NATIDNAL BAllK
SAVDIOS ACCOUNT

JUllB 30. 1959

• 9,294,75

at book value - Schedule 2 r
market value
,193, 75

IllVl!STKl!XTS

Bonda

BlllIBIT K

The principal or Ulia Fwd consists or gitte !rom C, W, Flint, · The income or the Fund has
been designated by the Trustees !or the use or the Deco to Rome,

providing !or the Jl8111l•nt or certain lite annuities out or the principal and incOllO
thereof, Under the terms or the contract an;y principal or the !und expended in pqment
or the annuiti"" ia to be later restored to the tuncl vhen annuities no longer abeorb the
entire income, Arter restoration of the principal to the original eum or tlo,000.00 the
income !rom the fund is to be used !or the benefit or the residente or the Covin& Ho•.
STAT.!JIENT OF ASSETS AND F"JJID BALANCE

331

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

STAnMEllT OF ASSETS AND F'Ul!ll BALANCE

~

CROCKER-AJGLO llATiaU.L BARK
SAVINGS ACCXlUNT

J1lllE JO,

1959

•

DIVESTllEllTS at book value - Schedule 21
Bonds market value
,9 J, 75
Preferred stock (market value '132,025.00)
Co11111>a stock (markat value 1187,392,25)
Total Securities (market value 1427 .381,00)

5.QQ0.09

367,684,00

TOTAL ASSETS

'!'OTAL ASSETS

Principal or Fu.'ld

Principal or Fwd

'14,736.56

MLAHCE, JUNE 30. 1958

!!!!!• Gain !rom sale or securities
~:

115.B~

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1958

tl62,444,5i.

!!!!!,: Gain from sale or securities

5,426.11

BALANCE. JUNE 30, 1959 - Exhibit D

766.76

Excess or annuities over revenue

BAWICE, JUNE 30, 1959 - Exhibit D
STATE>!ENT OF REVJlllllE
STATEMENT OF ANNUITIES AND REVENUE

Annuities paid as required by the agresment

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1959

• 1,350.00

:&!!!!.!• Revenuer

EXCESS OF ANNUITIES OVER REVmllJE

REVDlllE:

"""'"fiiterest on bonds
Dividends on stock
Interest on bank account
REVElllllE Tl!ABSFl!RRED 'fO Dl!CO'fO SPECIAL l!l!Sl!RVE -

Interest on bonds
Interest on bank account

Schedule 4

583.24
'

7

46.76

!EAR l!llDED JUJIE 30, 1959

•

3,072.87
13,8)8,98

53.oo

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

333

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IXllIBIT L

MASONIC HCJIES OF CAUFORNIA
LEONARD GROSS HEl!ORIAL FUND

MASONIC HCl!ES OF CALIFORNIA
STUDEllTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND

'!'be principal 11! this Fund aris"" !rom girt• mads as a meD>rial to Leonard Gro••·

EXHIBIT M

The principal o! thil Fund arisss !rom gi!ta. The income o! the Fund i i designated by the
Trwltees !or use in student loan and scholarship purposes.
JUR1! 30. l 9S9

STATl!MENT OF ASSEl'S AND FUND BALANCE

STATDIEllT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

JUD 30. 1959

CASH Ill CBOCIER-All'GLO NATIONAL BANI
SAVINGS ACCOUNT

CASH IB CBOCil!ll-ANGLO IATIDKAL BAXI
SAVIllGS ACCOUll'r

Principal of Fund
BALANCE. JUW 30, 1958

18,~2.33

Principal or Fund

T!.
II(;

A9!1.1 Gain !rom sale o! securities

1.810,00

JUD 30, 1959 - Bxhibit D

$10,042,33

change took place in this fund during tbe year ended June 30, l9S9)
~1

Excess o! grants and loans over rnenue

1.478.52

BALANCE. Jtllll! 30. 1959 - !xhibit D
STATEMl!JIT OF REVDllJE

lBAll !llDl!ll Jllll1! 30. 1959
STA TBMl!NT OF REVEllUE

l!EVElllJE I
-interest OD bank account
!!E'l¥11E Tl!.l.NSFEllRID T'.l GEllERAL FUND IliCCXE - Exhibit B

I a 561 a1

YEAR EllDBD JOI! 30. 1959

REVEllllE1
--interest OD bollde
DirldeDds OD stock
Girts !roa indiTI.duals

•

J,08,75
l,o6o.52

p.50

• l,482.77
George F, Brighaa and Laura I. Brighe.m
Soholarebip Fund incoM - Emibit H

595.21

Total Rnenue

G!Wr'!'S ARD LOAml FOR EDUCATIONAL PIJRPa3!!31
Grante
Loana

• 2,077.98

11,298.00
2,2S8,50

3.556.50
EXCESS or GRANTS ARD LOANS OVER REV1'21UB

335

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

334

The Fund is conq>ooed or deposi ts made
and Decato Ho11111a,

-

nts ot the CoTina
by and held in truat !or the reside

STAT.l!Joll!llT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

CASH Ill CCJ!M!BCIAL BANK ACCOUllTS:
Cali!'o rnia Bank
First Wester n Bank and Trust Compaey-

TBBASUBBI! 1S Ci::l!MIBCI.lL .!CCOOJIT:
Vella Fargo Bank

JOO 30. 1959

I S,191,82
1.900. 00

4,.5ll. 96

2,676.SS
7.289.Q4
24,975,32

57,315 .87

Bank ot Aaerio a l.T. • S,l,

12,~.!Z

266,S12,67
Ol'll!lIDQ C!!!!!pCIAL lCCOIOO'S,

Firat Wester n !l&Dk and 'l'rlaet ciollp&l\T

• s,769.4 4
6,187. s6

a
SMvi t7-Pir at ktion al Beak ot Loa Azl&ela

1,216. 92

Vella Parp Bank

!61!m16~)

7,844.27

'35 679 ·1P

TOTAL .ASSETS

JUmlLVIJG .PUIDS I
Firs\ Wester n Benk and Trust Comp&J IJ

frinci pal or fUnd
llltSIDl! llTS I DBPal ITS :

l.30 ,487. 28

Deco to

s.191.e:z

Covina

BALAllCB 1 JUBB 30. 1959 - Exhib it D

STATl!KENT OF !UM:tWB

llBVEllUEr

~ds on stock
Intere st on bank accolUlt

~:

11.97 ,001.33

Paoi!i c ktion al Banlt ot San l'ranci aoo

Caillo rnia llank

115,009.73

Total Secur ities (marke t value 124.10 4.06)

TllBAStlil!a•S SAVIllG8 ACCOIJllTS:
Crooker-Anglo lation al Bank

30. 1959

• 66,198 .70

• 6,191, 82

CASH II CllOCIO!ll...ARGLO HATIONAL BAHK
SAVDIGB ACCODllT
21
IllVBS'llll!ll'IS \at book ...al.De) - Schedu le
Jbnde (11&rket ruue 114,97 6,56)
.00)
'2,400
value
t
(marn
Prefer red stock
Common stock (marke t value '6,727 .50)

m!l!I U l

BIHIBI T H

MASOOIC Htlm! OF CALIFORNIA
RESIDENTS' DEPOSITS .

Oalito rni& Bonk

2,239,.30

Cneb at Decato Ho•

1,166. 0l

115 679.lp

l!121!!S!
17,722,Q3

tBAR l!llDBD JlJllB 30, 1959

•

!.lQ1ll

I

508.33

78,()()

28,96

Jbnd intere st expens e

B UVlllUB 'f!WISFBl!ll!%> TO D!!C0T9 SP!X:LU. RISBRV
Sobed uieit

tl.3,966.72

I

M?i1l2

'TOTAL C.ASR

13~1 2ZZ16l

336

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

MASONIC HCl!l!S OF CALil'OIUIIA

8CHIOOLI 2
Paa• l

INV!STM!Nl'S

JllliE ~o, 12~2

(Conoolida tad schedule of inYe1tmen t1, exci!pt ..tor
inve1tment 1 of the Penianent &ldoVllll!lnt Pand.)
FACE VALUI

~

$ 25,000
1,800
9,000
2,000
20,000
15,000
5;000
31,000
25,000
5,000
60,000
10,000
5,000
1;000
1,000
40,000

Che1&peake & Ohio B..B.. Bquii:aent Tnl•t, J-7 /Bf., 1962
Conoolidat ed Edioon Compaey ot New York, 4'/., 1973
Coll80lida ted !dison CollpaJl1 ot New York, 5%, 1987
Contra Coot.a Count)' Road, 2-1/4'/., 1974
Federal Interiudi& te Credit Bank, 3.45%, 1959
Federal Intermedia te Credit Bank, J. 70%, 1959
Oeneral Motor• Acceptance Corp., J-7 /Bf., 1961
Internatio nal K:lneral lo Chemical Corporatio n, J.65%, 1977
Jliaeouri Pacific R.1l. Bquipment Trust, 3-1/:?J, 1963
Paci!ic Gao and Electric Compall)', )%, 1970
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph~. 4-5/B:t., 1990
Pacific Telf'l'hone and Telegraph CompaJIT, 4-5/8%, 1990
Pacific telephone and Telegrapb CompaJIT, 4'-5/8%, 1990
Paradiae Vall97 Irrigation Dietrict, 4%, 1955
Paradioe Val.197 Irrigation Diotrict, 4%, 1956
Phil.&delp hia Electric Co., 4--3/8%, 1986
Public SllMice ·nectric & Gae· CompU>,1', 4'-7 /8%, 1987
Southern Ball Telepho,. &ad Telegraph Co., 4-5/8%, 1993
Southern Ball Telephone and Telegraph Co., 4-5/8%, 1993
Southern llell Telephone· and Telegraph Co., 4'-5/d, 1993
Southern Califoi'nia .Uoon Comp&J\T, 4-7/8%, 1982
Southern California Gae CollPBJ\T, 3-1/4%, 1970
Southern California Gaa ColllP&JV', J-1/4%, 1970
Southern Countiea Gu Co., 3%, 1971
Southern Pacific Colllp&11J Equipment Truat, J-5/B:t., 1961
Soutbweot em ·eall Telephone Comp&J\T, 4'-374'1>, 1992
Texas and Pacific llailwa;r Bquipment Trust, )%, 1960
T - Power and Light Co., 4.5%, 1988
Tua• Power and Light Co., 4.5%, 1988
Texa• Power and Light Co., 4.5%, 1988
o. S. TrlAIUJ'7 Bond.a, J-:1/Z/., 1990
u. S. Treu1117 Bond.•, J-1/Zf., 1990
o. s. Treasury Bond•, J-1/2%, 1990
u. s. Tr41&8W7 Bonda, 3-1/4'1>, 1983-78
U. s. Treasury Bonde, 2-1/Zf,, 1969-64
o. s. Treuurr Bonda, 2-1/2%, 1970-65
U. s. Trealllr7 Bondi, 2-1/Z/., 1970-65
o. s. Treuurr Bond.a, 2-1/2%, 1970-65
U. S. Tre&aWT Bonda, 2-1/2%, 1971-66
o. s. Trea1llr7 Bond.a, 2-1/Zf., 1972-67
o. s. Trl&IUJ'7 Bondi, 2-1/Zf.,
o. s. TreUWT Bonda, · 2-1/2%, 1972-67
Inveotmen t aerie• A, 1965
Virginian RailV&T Comp&J\T, 6%, 2008

5Q,ooo

50,000
23,000
8,000
50,000
2,000
i.,ooo
5,000

so.ooo

5,000
25,000
52,000
12,000
16,000
191,000
12,000
15,000
6,000
10,000
9,000
10,500
5,000
J,000
3,2,000
25,000
5,000
12,700

Total Bond!

MASONIC HOl!ES OF CALIFORNIA

$

24,834.86
1,852.ll
9;068.80-P
1,884.92
20,000.00- PT
15' 009 .73-B.
4,980.U
32,355.04
25,000.00
5,Olo0.24--11
61,546.31- PT
10,248.88- FT
5,133.99-L
1.00
1.00
40,ooo.oo
50,481.65
50,641+.27
23 1 296.JJ-PT
8,102.91-L
50,503.18
1,806.61
4;lr::fl .39-B
5,06o.4J-B
49,643.05
5,040.56- "

:U.,982.54

52,5U.26
l.2,ll7.96- FT
16,157.38- L
195,427.06
ll,467 .01-FT
14,333.SJ- L
5,9ll.84
101 000.00-P
9,049.75-F T
10,446.89- B
51 000.00-v
2,889.34.
320,856.90
24,161.95 -"
5,000.00-B
1.1.. 149.l+J
ti.240,106 .54

l!CllEOOLI 2
Paa• 2

INVESTMEm'S
~

BOClt VALUI

337

200
100
100
100
100

500
2,100
100
100
100
75
200
100
100
200
100
200
300
200
200
200

200
100
20
100
200
100
100
400
842
175
100
200

421
100
100
600
520
100
JOO
267
200
125
600
200
9

JUNS lQ, 1222
.l'REFERREll STOCK

Al.lied stores Corporatio n, 4'/.
Aluminum Compaey of America, $3. 75
Aluminum Campaey of America, $3. 75
American Metal Climax, Inc., lrl/Zf,
American Metal Climax, Inc., lrl/Z/.
Ashland Oil & Refining Co., $1.50
Atchieon, Topeka & Santa Fe B.ailV&T Compaey, 5%
Atlantic Refining COlllpAey', J-3/4'/., B
Atlantic Refining Comp&DT, 3-3/4%, B
Bri1tol-117"er1 Co., 3-J/4'/.
Canada Dr7, Corp., $4.25
Canada 1>r7, Corp., $4.25
Champion Paper and Fibre Compaey, 4.50%
Champion Paper an:! Fibre Compaey, 4.50%
Crown Zellerbach Corporatio n, 4.20%
Crown Zellerbach Corporatio n, 4.20%
B. I. du Pont de Nmm>ur• & Comp&nT, $4.50
Duqueone Light Compao;r, $2 .10
General Motors Corporatio n, $3. 75
V. T. Grant CompaJIT, 3-3/4%
Gulf Stateo Utilities C~, $4.20
llST Department Stores Comp&IV, 3 .40%
Mq Departmen t Stereo Comp&J\T, 3.40%
llarcantile Acceptance Corporatio n, 5%
National G7p11111 Co., $4.50
J. J. Na..berry Comp&n,J', 3-3/4%
Niagara Mohawk Powr Corporatio n, 3.60%
Northern States Power Co. at Kinneoota, $4.10
Oklahoma Gaa and Electric Co., 4%
Paci tic Gao and, Bleatric Comp&n)', 6%
Pacific Gas and Electric Compaey-, 5-1/Zf,
Pacific Gao and Electric Comp&nT, 5%, Red. lot
Pacific Gao and Electric CompaJV', 5%, Red. lot, A
Pacific Gaa and Electric Comp&n)', 5%
Pacific Lighting Corporatio n, 4.36%
Pacific Lighting Corporatio n, 4.36%
Public Service Compaey ot Indiana, 4.16%
Public Sel"'fice Electric & Gas CQllP&l\T, $1.40
Public Service Electric & Gaa Compan.y, $1.40
San Diego Gae & Electric Compaey, 5.60%
Southern California Edison Ccmrpaey", 4 .32%
Southern California Bdiaon Comp&n)', 4.JZf,
Southern California Edison Compan)', 4.3Z/.
Southam California J!l:11eon Compazr;r, 4.24'/.
Sperry R&Di Corporatio n, $4. 50
State Guarant)' Corporatio n, $1.JO

~

BOOI: VALUE
$

•

16,286.20
9,839.00
8,661.26-P T
10,597.55
9,896.85-l" T
15,063.88
21,ou.15
9, 971.93
9,043.30-F r
8,950.15
7,528.60
16,498. 78-FT
l0,677.56
9,846.80-P T
19,693.60
9, 846.60-PT
24,148.85
15,504.51
20,094.00
19,791.70
19,521.53
16,229.98
7 ,644.20-PT
· 210.00
10,420.38
16, 890.00-FT
9,045.80
10,144.60
7,887.08
26,561.35
5,915.38
2,653.13
5,293.69-F T
12,540.88
10,000.00
8, 988.68-FT
15, 745.08
16,212.95
2, 829 .60-PT
6,840.75
6,026.19
4, 791.33-FT
1,071.39-B
15,JJo.oo
20,085.20
366.75
532,228.19

338

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

SCH!DUIJl 2
Pap 3

MASONIC HOl!ES OF CALIFCll!fll

JUHB JO, 1959

INVESTMENTS

339

MASONIC HCJ!BS OF CALIFORNIA

SCll!DlllB 2
Page 4

INVESTMElll'S

JIJlll 30 1959
I

~

~
800

100
700
200
1,000

300

200
100
100

!lunrq 11:1.d-Continent Oil Co., 4-1/2'/., A
Sunr81" Mid-Continent Oil Co., 4-1/2'/., A
Tidewater Oil Co11P&D7, tl,20
Tidevater Oil Comp&Jl1, tl,20
Union Pacific Railroad Compe111, 4:C
Union Pacific Railroad Compa111, 4:C
Victor Chemical Work•, 3-1/'Z/.
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, 3,80%, B
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, 3.SO:C, B

82
100
327
250
668
332

500
125
382
200
225
300
200

389
950
533
234
581
200
691
430
200

171
200
229
286
344
300

•

20,926.93
2,364.19-PT
19,719.28
5,230,88-PT
10,381.30
2,676.55-R
16,495.65-PT
9,946.90
9.020.78-FT

BOOlt VJ.LUE

COMMON STOClt
Allied Chemical Corporation
Allied Stores-Corporation
American Can Co,
American Cyanamid Comp&J11
American Trust Comp8J11
American Trust Compa117
Aeeociated Dey Goods Corp,
Atlantic Refining Comp&r17
Bank of America N,T. a. S,A,
Banker• Trust Comp&l\Y of Ne>r York
Beatrice Food• Comp&l\Y
Beatrice Foods CO!llp&IV"
Bendix lTiation Corporation
Borg-llarner Corp,
California Paold.111 Corporation
Central Hudson Gaa a. Electric Corp.
Chau M&nhattan Bank
Chemical Corn E:mb~e Bank
Cleveland-Cliffs ·Iron Co,
Columbia Gas S,.at.•, Inc.
Columbia Gas S:rat.•1 Inc.
Columbus and Soutb.rn Ohio Electric Colllp&IV'
Consolidated l!:diaon Comp&J\Y or New York, Inc,
Consolidated l!:di•on Compaey of New York, Inc.
Continental Baking Comp&J11
Continental Bakillg Comp11111
Continental Baki111 COllpaey
Continental Insurance Compaq
~

•

5,921,93
4,663.33
14, 735,05
6,094.51
18, 796.89
9,786,00-FT
17,933.75
4,097.54
15,052.39

ll,o66.48
7,097.88
7,810,36-PT
11,877.29
18,853.77
21,234.35
5,698.45
8,382.91
22,014,82
7,903.13
11,832.29
7,359.25-PT
6;199.39
5,804.88
8,875.6o-PT
8,639.00
10,829.85-PT
13,025, 90-L
11+·279.Jl

$

~

532,228,19

t--621t.9'1().65

Total Preferred Stock

~

BOOK VALIJB

PREFl!al!ED STOCK

305,866.30

CCllMON STOCK
~

30
782

l4l.
130
3ll

37
500
400
308
100
240
330
214

59
428
1,000
204
25
223
450
10

56

88
350
400
100
340
120
100
100
601
303
400
659

50
880
200
200
400
400
284
220

125

Covina. Irrigatin& Co,
Crocker-An&].o Kat.ional Bank
Dqton Power. & Light Compan,r
Dqton Power & Light Ccnpa~
Dow Chemical CompaD,T
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & CompMT
Duquesne Light Caap&JV'
Duquesne Light Comp&JV'
Firetamerica Corporation
General Dynamics· Corporation
General Electric Comp&r17
General Public Utilitiea Corp,
General Public Utilities Corp,
Gooc!J'ear Tire & Rubber COJIPMT
Home Insurance Compaq of Nev York
Honolulu Oil Corporation
Irvin& Trust CDlllplµIJ
Johna-Hanville Corporation
Kaiaer Aluminwa & Chemical Corporation
Manufacturers Trust Compaey
liq Department Stores Compaey
Mercantile Acceptance Corporation
11:1.nneeota 11:1.ning and llanutacturing Co,
11:1.nneeota Power & Light Conp&Jl1
Hontgome?7 llard & Compaey, Inc,
Montgomery Ward & Comp11111, Inc,
Morgan Guarant:r Trust Compaq of New York
Morgan Gu!rant:r Trust Compaey of New York
National Sha-..t Bank or Boston
National Sha-.t Bank of Boston
He>r l!:ngland Electric S:rst•
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
North American ATiation, Inc.
Northern States Power Co. of 11:1.nneeota
Owens-Illinois Glass Comp&l\Y
Pacific Gae an:! Electric Compa~
J. C. Penne:r ComplUJT
J , C , Pennq Co11pan;r
Pennaalt Chemicals Corp,
Phillipa Petroleum Compaq
"Public Service CompllllT of Indiana.
Public Service nectric & Gaa Compan;r
Public Service Electric & Gas CO""IUJT
~

BOOI V.&LUB

•

305,866 • .30
32.SO
ll,494.3.1.
5,32l.6o
7,289,04-R
22,494.43
8,820,25
6,951.61>
7, 24J.,08-PT
4,910.74
6,008. 96
7,227 .u
7,293.50
7 ,638,62-FT
8,201.00
16,664.15
38,875.00
6,545.38
1,287.50
2,837.89
14,806.91
398. 75
728,00
12,408,00
6,025,42
16,280,60
3,307.13-FT
25,171,53
8,418,38-PT
4,6oo.31
4,60o.31-FT
7,9"4.,69
7,113.54
14,120,88
7,200.21
1,825.40
37,512.13
18,117.23
15, 713.83-PT
24, 794.43
8,148.23-PT

1,102.10
5,459.79
~.~221/tO-B

$ 738,799.15

340

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

PROCE EDING S OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHl!llllLB 2
Page S

INVESTMENTS

JU!IB 30, 1959
COMl!ON STOC!l
Forward

l,629
300
2Si
50
102

96
533
5
195
253
366
200
250
200

46

2(f/

2ltD

200
408
20
l,350
425
493

424

RiYer Far1111 of Califor nia
San Diego Gae & BJ.ectri c CompaDJ
San Dimas Ga• & BJ.ectri o Compaq
Santa Boaa Sartaga am Loan loaocia tion
Seara, Roebuck 6 Co.
Securit ;r-Firat Nationa l Bank of Loa Angaleo
Securi~-Firat N&tional B1111k of Loa Angele•
Shell Oil CompaDJ
Southam Califor nia Edison Compan;r
Souther n Realt;r Co.
Sper!'7 Rand Corpora tion
Sparr;,- Rand Corpora tion
Standar d Branda, Inc.
Standar d Oil Compall,1 of Califor nia
Standar d Oil COllPaDJ (Indian a)
standar d Oil Comp&llT ~Nev Jaraq)
Stamar d Oil Compan;r Ohio)
Sunshin e Biocuit s, Inc.
Trano81118rica Corpora tion
Union Carbide Corp.
Waialua Agricul tural Co,
Wost Penn Electri c Co,
Westinghouse Blectri c Corpora tion
ld•con• in BJ.ectri c Power ColllP&'IT
Bight lots of securit ies of undeten d.ned Yalu•
receind as gifia,
carried at 11Dminal vallae of $1.,00 per l.ot
Total Camon Stock
Totai Stock
TOTAL IJIVESTMENl'S

~·

Boat VAim

•

738,799 .15
48,870. 00
6,445.4 2
2,365.0 0
25,000. 00
4,870.5 0
5,511.0 0
8,831.3 3-rr
361.36
7,)26.t n
399.00 -n
7,925.8 8
3,873.2 6-L
5,603.8 7
l0,263,2 6
2,236.7 5
16,211. 0l
9,703,1 3
14,436. 31
9,819.5 9
2,635.0 0
ll,287.5 0
ll,167.9 8
31,036.4 2
8,962.2 7
8,00

• m.ru,so
tl,622,2!tQ,~

12 ~J D!!B ~~

The abon consoli dated stateme nt inolude • all the
sacurit iea of the Masonic Hoaes of
Califor nia, except thoee in the Pennanent Endo'W!ll
ent Fun:! which are shown on
Schedul e 3, The securit ies aboYe are coded for
the follovin g t'anda1

B - George Y, Brigham and Laura E, Brighaa Scholar
ahip
Fund - l!'ilhibit H
FT - C, N, 'flint Trust Fund - Exhibit IC
L - John and Lena Luckenbach Fund - Exhibit G
p - George J(, and Florenc e G. Perine Endo'IClll
8nt Fund - Elchibit I
R - Residen t•' Deposit s - E:dlibit N
V - Harriet C, Wadleigh Endo""'ent Annuit;r Fun:!
- !llhibit J
(Unaoded) - General Fund - bhibit 1

TOTAL Ill'IESTlmNl'S (ae abon)

•

34,125. 74
367,684 .00
60,627. 27
l9,o68,8 0
24,975. 32
5,000.0 0
2,351.5 65.86

IN\IE.5™ENTS
FACE VAUJK

•

MASONIC HO~ OF C
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT
MASONIC HOMES OF

341

SCHEDULE .3
Page l
JUNE .30, 1959
BOOK VAWR

American Telepbone and Telegra ph Company, 5%, 1983
$ 108,301 .07
Central IllillDi • Public Service Company, 4-3/4%,
101,585 ,62
Chesapeake & Ohio R.R. Equipne nt Truot, 2-7/~, 1989
1960
49,999, 79
Chesapeake & Ohio R.R. Equipne nt Trust, 2-1/2'!.,
1961
24, 73.3.82
Chesapeake & Ohio R.R. Equipne nt Trust, 3-7/~,
1962
24,834. 89
50,000 Chicago , Burling ton & Quincy R.R. Equipne nt Trust, 2-5/Sfa,
1965
49,647. 12
Chicago, Bock Island & Pacific R.R. Equipne nt Trust,
50,000
2-3/4%, 1962
49,764. 31
l,800
Conooli dated Edison Compallj' of New York, 4%,
l,859.4 3
61,000 Consoli dated Edison Compallj' of Nev Iorl<, 5%, 1973
1987
61,784, 44
89,000 ConoUlllera Power Company, 4-3/4%, 1987
89,553.
56
25,000 Delaware, Lacliawanna & Western R.R. Equipne nt' Truot,
3~, 1962
24,940, 54
315,000 Federal Interme diate Credit Benk, 3 ,45%, 1959
314,851 .25
40,000 Federal Interme diate Credit B&nk, 4-l/~,. 1960
40,000, 00
50,000 Great Norther n 1l7., 2nd Equipne nt Trust, 2-5/~.
49,318, 55
50,000 Great Norther n 1l7, 1 2i:ld Equipne nt Trust, 2-5/Sfa, 1968
1961
48,720.
77
100,000 Gulf ·Stotes Utilitie o, 4-3/4%, 1989
102,393 .04
50,000 Illinoi s Central R.R. Equiiaa nt Trust, 2-3/4%, 1962
49,806. 78
50,000
Illinoi s Central R.R. Equipne nt l'Nst, 2-5/~,
49,562. 05
100,000 Indiana & Kichi8&n Electri c Co., 4-3/4%, 1988 1964
lD2,377 .l7
67,000 Interna tional Mineral.a & Chemical Corpora tion,
3.65%, lm
70,3114,00
50,000 Jerse;r Central Power & Light Company, 5%, 1987
~.235,20
50,000 Louisrt lle & Haabvil le R.R. Equipne nt Trust, 2-7/Sfa,
1962
49,934.
69
100,000 Louisvi lle G&s and Electri c Compan7, 4-7/~,
l01,ll5 .70
100,000 Michigan Bell Telephone Company, 4-3/4%, 19921987
lo6,142 ,34
25,000 .llinnea polis, St. Paul & S.St.K uie R.R. Equipne
24,959. 81
25,000 Missou ri Pacific R.R. Equipne nt Trust, 3-l/2%, nt Truat,. 3-l/8'/o, 1962
1963
25,000. 00
100,000 lliagara Mohawk Power Corpora tion, 4-7/8%, 1987
100,816.27
50,000 Northam Pacific a;r. F.quipnent Trust, 2-3/4%, 1960
49,321. 69
25,000 Northam Pacific a;r. Equipne nt Trust, 3%, 1963
24,999. 68
50,000 Oakdale Irrigati on Diotric t Tri Dem, 3.05%, 2004
50,ll9.7 0
100,000 Pacific Clas and Electri c Company, 4-l/2%,
1990
100,000 .00
100,000 Pacific Telepho ne and Telegrap h Compan;r, 5-l/8%,
1980
102,203
,63
50,000 Philade lphia Electri c Co,, 4-3/Sfa, 1986
50,000. 00
50,000 Pittob8 rgb "' Lake Erie R.R. Equipne nt Tru•t,
2-3/4%,
49,919. 85
50,000 Pittsbu rgh & Lake Erie R.R. Equipne nt Trust, 3-7/8'/o, 1961
1962
49,887, 08
50,000 Public Ser..-ice Electri c & Gu Coapan:y, 4-7/Sfa,
1987
50,493,27
50,000 St. Louis-S an Francis co a;r. F.quipnent Trust, 2-7/Sfa,
50,003, 15
so,ooo Seaboard Airline R.R. Equipnent Trust, 2-7/8'/o, 1962 1959
49,817. 25
50,000 South San Joaquin Irrigati on Distric t Revenue
50,ll9.7 0
100,000 Souther n Bell Telepho ne and Telegrap h Compallj , 3,05~. 2004
', 4-5/~. 1993
lDl,288
,22
50,000 Souther n Califor nia Edison Company, 4-7 /8'{., 1982
50,503. 18
50,000 Souther n Pacific Company Equipne nt Trust, 3-5/Sfa, 1961
49,645. 75
100,000 Souther n Pacific Co1>pan:y F.quipnent Trust, 2-5/8'/o,
1965
98,830. 67
20,000 Southn atern Bell Telephone Company, 4-3/4%,
1992
20,163. 59
25,000 Texas and Pacific Railway Equipne nt Trust, 3%, 1960
24,982. 56
25,000 Texas and Pacific Rail""'T Equipne nt TNst, 2-1/8'/.,
1962
24,7ll.8 9
20,000 Texa• Power end Li&ht Co., 4.5%, 1988
20,196.
51
l,055,00 0 U, S, Traaour;r Bondo, 3-1/2$, 1990
1,089,4 43.81
10,000 U, S, Treaeur;r Bonda, 2-3/4%, 1961
10,013. 75
100,000 U, S, Treasur y Bonda, 2-l/2%, 1961
100,34 1.ll
165,000 U, S, Treasur y llonda, 2-l/2%, 1969-64
166,040
.88
735,000 U, S, Treasur y Bonds, 2-l/2%, 1972-67
710,204 ,45
160,000 U, S, Treasur y Bonda, Investm ent Series A, 2-l/2$,
1965
160,000
.00
12,000 U, S, Treaaur;r Bonda, Investm ent Serie• B, 2-3/4%,
1900-75
12,066. 97
17,300 Virgini an Ballva;r Company, 6%, 2008
19.274,l .3
Totol Bond•
t5,2C17 ,204,68
100,000
100,000
50,000
25,000
25,000

342

PROCEED INGS OF THE

llASONIC HOMES OF CAI.IFOBNIA
PERMANENT ENDO'lf!EllT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HO!!ES OF CALIFORNU

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

SCHEDULE 3
Page 2
J1J11S ~o, 12~2

INVESTMENTS
~

~

300
300
200
1,300
1,900
300
300
180
200

400
200
200
300
400
300
300
300
300
200
300
200
1,400
558
96

600
100
200
1,200
1,300
1,500

600
1,200
300
1,300

1,500
~.500
200

300

PREFEl!llED S'IOCK

Allied Stores Corporation , 4%
Aluminum Company of America, $3.75
American Metal Climax, Inc., 4-1/2$.
Ashland Oil & Refining Co., $1. 50
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Rail-1 Company, 5%
Atlantic Refining Company, 3-3/4%, B
Bristol-Hye rs Co., 3-3/4%
Canada Dry Corp.' 14.25
Champion Paper and Fibre Company, 4. 50%
Continental Baking Company, $5.50
Crown Zellerbach Corporation , 4.20%
E, I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, $4. 50
°"queane Light Compeny, $2.10
General Motors Corporation , 13,75
W. T. Grant Company, 3-3/4%
Gul.! States Utilities Company, $4.20
May Department Stores CompanT, 3 .40%
National Gfpsum Co., 14.50
J. J. Newberry Company, 3-3/4%
Niagara Moha-..lc Power Corporation , 3.60%
Northern Ststee Powr Co. of Kinneeots, $4.lD
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Compen;y, 4%
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 6%
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 5-1/2%
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 5%, Red. lot
Paci!1c Gas and Electric Co~, 5%, Red. lat, A
Pacific Lighting Corporation , 4.36%
Public Service Compan;r o! Indiana, 4.16%
Public Service Electric & Gas Company $1.40
San Diego Clas & Electric Company, 5.60%
Southern California Edison Company, 4.32%
Southern California Edison ComP9nT, 4 • 24%
SperrT Band Corporation , $4. 50
Sunray Hid-Contine nt Oil Company, 4-1/2$., A
Tidewater Oil Compeny, $1. 20
Union Pacific Railroad Compen;y, 4%
Victor Chemical Works, 3-1/2$.
Weatinghouae Electric Corporation , 3.m, B
One lot o! securities o! undete:nnined value, received as
a gilt, carried at a nolllinal. value of $1.00
Total Preferred Stock

BOOK VALUE
$ 24,429.50
27 ,213.45
21,195.30
39,270.40
18,930.15
28,914.58
27,747.10
18,068.40
20,499.19
42,)70.98
19,689.60
24,148.85
15,577.06
38,373.30
29,541.40
29,920.54
25,073.64
30,514.39
17,891.00
27,037.30
20,269.l.8
27,636.33
15,855.75
2,430.00
15,830.81
2,653.13
20,000.00
30,838.32
40,440.51
31,452.14
14,386.82
30,660.00
30,514.39
33,050.09
U,850.22
25,992.28
17,465.78
29,840.71
1,00
$256, 573. 57

343

MASONIC HOKES OF CALIFORNIA
PEBMANEllT ENDOWMENT FUND OP 'lllE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

S~ULB J
qe 3
JUHS 30, 1959

COllllON STOCK

Allied Chemical Corpora ti.on
900
Allied Stores Corporation
600
American Can Co.
1,350
American CJIUl8lllid Comp&DT
300
Associated Dry Goods Corp.
800
Atlantic Re!izililg Co11pan7
617
Bank or .America 11.T. a. S.A.
Bankers T1'118t Colip&DT o! Nev York
440
540
Bea trice Food a CompanT
600
Bendix Arla ti.on Corg;:ration
1,000
Call!ornia Packing rpora ti.on
1,280
Central Hudson Gas a. Electric Corp.
623
Chase llanhattan Bank
Chemical. Corn Exchange Bank
513
1,300
Clnel.and-C li!!s Iron Co.
1,128
Colwabia Ga.s S78t•, Inc.
800
Colwabus and Southern Ohio &lectric ~
360
Coneolid&te d F.dison Co11pan7 o! Nev York, Inc.
Con.sumer& Pover Coaip&DT
589
286
Continental ~in& Comp&DT
700
Continental Insurance CollJllUIT
Crocker-\ng lo National Benk
11875
900
Dayton Powr a. Light Co11pan7
723
Dov Chmiical Compan,.
100
B. I. du Pont de Nemours & ComJ>llllT
1,200
Duquesne Light CompanT
1,200
Firet llational Cit7 Bank or New York
200
Firetallleric a Corporation
General D;rnamica Corpora ti.on
900
.720
General Electric Compan;r
849
General Public Utilities Corp.
612
General Tire a. Rubber Co11pen7
Home Insurance Comp&DT o! llev York
943
160
Honolulu Oil Co~ration
500
Insurance CompanT o! Horth America
Internation al. Busineea ll&chinea Corporation
155
700
Internation al ffal'ft&ter Co.
2,173
Ining Trua t Co111Jl8'11'
1,000
Jobnl-&AT lll• Corporation
827
Kaiser Alwn1nwl a. Chemical. Corporation
600
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation
460
Hanu!acture re True t ComJ>llllT
1,500
Hay Department Stores Company
Minneapolis -llone;yvell Regulator CoJ1P&D7
500
840
Minnesota Pover a. Light Compan;r
1,000
Kontgo•rT Ward & Co11Jl1Ul7, Inc.
614
Morgan Guarant7 Trust Compan;r ot Jlev York
1,000
National Biscuit Compen7
300
National Sha-ut Bank ot Boston
1,440
Nev England El.ec tric S;yat•
726
Niagara Mohavl< Pover Corporation
303

Forward

BOOK VALUB

I

23,507.17
38,702.32
27 ,137.88
32,532.26
10,760.25
28,269.03
21,,097.29
. 23,952.96
12,992.69
32,316.0l.
23,212.25
13,623.00
23,361.01
20,851.20
Sl,590.80
20,483.95
23,425.94
ll,695.93
23,165.10
10,829.99
33,324.05
27,559.43
36,984.88
51,426.78
21,267.81
16,686.78
66,052.31
3,184.05
54,934.05
14,484.06
19,102.27
16,538.08
39,218.53
5,620.00
53,205.00
33,185.01
31,217.64
56,886.25
46,686.35
12,372.81
12,482.88
13,939.31
53,584.57
43,827.00
14,430.22
38,798.0l
38,931.08
52,166.77
ll,855.13
19,029.65
l:Z.~1.0112

tl,i.32,728.1>;5

344

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASON IC HOl!ES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE

SCHEDULE 3
Page 4

KASOllIC HCllES OF CALIJl'ORllIA

MASONIC HUl!ES OF CALIFOmi IA
COMMON srocK

BOOK VALUE

$1,4)2,728.03

800

560
700
367
550
482

4

1,000

600
800
1,000
593
854
1,000
200
700
2,760
1,100
200
1,700
940
1,029

SCllBDIU 4
Page l

JUNE 30, 1959

INVE.S nIBNTS

1,300
1,000
l,7S9
720
431
500
600
400
681
745

345

North American Aviation, Inc.
Northern Natural Gas Compan;y
Northern States Power Co. o! Minnesota
Owens-Illinois Glass Compan;y
Pacific Gas and Electric Compan;y
J, c. Pe1111e;y Compan;r
Pe1111salt Chemicals Corp.
Phillipa PetroleWll Compan;y
Public Service Compan;y o! Indiana
Public Service Electric & Gas Compaey
Radio Corporation or America
Reliance Insurance Com~
San Diego Gas & Electric Compan;y
Securit;y-First National Bank o! Los Angeles
Shell Oil Compan;y
Southern Cali!ornia Edison Compan;y
Southern Realt;y Co.
Sperr;y Rand Corporation
Standard Brands, Inc,
Standard Oil Compaey o! California
Standard Oil Compan;y (Indiana)
Standard Oil Compan;r (New Jersey)
Standard Oil Compaey (Ohio)
Sunra;y Mid-Continent OU Compan;y
Sunshine Biscuits, Inc,
Tuaco, Inc.
Title Insure.nee & Trust Compan;y
Transamerica Corporation
Union Carbide Corp.
West Pe1111 Electric C!>mE&n:r
Westinghouse Electric liorporation
Wis cons in Electric Power Compan;y
Sll: lots o! securitiee o! Ulldetermined value, received as
girts, carried at a nominal w.lue o! $1,00 per lot

44,273-58
21,216.27
.20,401.59
26,107.54
17,389.75
46,987,97
37,154.12
12,953.32
18,472.97
18,656,99
29,831.20
24,634.75
14,442.60
14,073.67
26,036,85
16,443,04
ll.00
18,873.90
13,203.65
41,230.68
49,558.31
31,212.41
33,197.62
27,089.59
14,559.88
59,627,00
37,500,00
28,135.10
21,939,99
37,404.48
58,208,58
21,192.53
6,00

Total Co11111¥>n Stocks

$2.314.655.76

Total Stocks

$3 .271,229.33

TOTAL INVE.S'.nlEllTS - Exhibit F

$6 le.76 434 01

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL Plll!P09ES

JOIB 3Q. 1959

The assets represented bT tbeae Reserves are illclllded in the aaaets o! the Gemiral Flmd,
show on l!llhibit A,
RESERVE FOR ADDITIDllS AND Jll!PIACl!llBllTS t

Balance, June 301 19S8
Bequests and contributions allocated to
Reaerve bT Trustees
Net :l.nco11e !roa real estate received !roa
bequests allocated to Res":""" bT Trustees

t742,2Q3,50

I 86,SlS.Sl
l,88l,82

I 88,3911,33

~· Charges to Reaerve:

Additions to Deooto Ho11e
Additions to Covina Hom
Replacaents to Decoto H0119
Replacements to Covina Hom

ll04,.330.09
14,537.97
S9,139.91
~/t,220,ll!t

212 1 228 1 21

Decraase in Reserve
Balance, June 30, 1959

16Ja JZM.6'

COVDIA SPECIAL RESBRVE:
Balance, June 30, 1958
Bequests allocated tc Reserve bT Trustees
Contributions !or Hom
Net income !roa real eetate received !roa bequests
allocated to Reserve bT Trustees

1367,73S.8.3
tl.SO, 930, 80
5,627.94

~·~2.~e

11 ,251.12

.!!!!!• Charges tc Reaerve 1

.ldditiona tc Covina Heme
Replacements to Covina Hom
Livestock !or !ara
Sumner camp expense
Miscellaneous expenditures !or
apeci~ bome!it to residents

tl.SS,2S7.34
24,446.30

JJ,189.02
713.80
2.832.28
126,~817!!

Deorease in Reserve
Balance, June 30, 1959

1165,187.96
112,020.22
16,964.es
711,53
479,37
so.es

2611
I 30,282,

.!!!!!• Chargee to Reeervet

Increaae in Reserve
Bal.mce, June 30, 1959

l~ 1 l!rl 1 62

ll32 5,a.,~

DECOTO SPEJ:IAL RESERVB:
Balance, J1111e 30, 19S8
Bequests allocated to Reserve bT Trwlteee
C, N, Flint Trust 1'ulld inco11e - Bxhibit It
George M, and Florence G, Perine ElldoVD1811t
Fund income - Emibit I .
Residents• Deposit• incom - E:><hibit N
liet income !rom real estate received !roa
bequests allocated to Reserve bT Trustees
Contributions !or He•
Additions tc Decoto Ho11e
Replacements to Decoto Home
Xiacellaneous expenditures !or special
bene!it to resident.

~,828.88

I 1,716.oo
2,068.78
516,12

!t.~QQ,2Q

2~.281.~

Cl.2~ JQ2.!l2

.roB 30. 1959

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOOl!S

FllllERAL RESERVE:
8,975.00
8.611.~
• 17,586.
7.561.23

•

l

71 t¥p.M

•

J,512.27

• 10,o67.l.4

00'1Ill4 OPl!2ATDIG EimlSE:
llaintensnce
Boapital and •dical.
Pam and grouada
General, plant, building•, and tranoportation
4dll1.nietr&tiTe

1.424~99

RX!.W ouTSmB or MASONIC HCKl!S -

IZ36,665.65
142,402.46
13,221,16
J1,216,5a

125,497.54
16,278.80
1,010.52
6,068.09
246.33

llS0,841. 92
l34, 911.11+
7,557.J4
1.894,00
IJ25,20lt.lo0
tiso,000.00
51,504.00
17,586.2J
2.558.48

221.648.71

66.688.lQ
I

Jloo,051.16
14,940.52
21,JJ9.Jl
57,840.21
J8,J70.51

103 .555.69 '

M14t 529.lQ

lll!W HOOPITAL Rl!SEl!VE:

aerricea
O!!ice salaries
l"ield innet:lj!ationa
Pcieions !or retired upl.orees
Tuee on pqrolla
411d1ting HrYic . .
979tue aervicee
Trmteee' expenaes
O!tio• eappllH and printing
C&li!omia l'reeMaOD - Dedioati011 ieelle
Tues on Ho•e
Innetaent oouneel !Ma
.&otUJ'7 !ee•
Securi ti•• •afekeeping
1leal eetate m<pena ..
Telepbone
lleillbnn-t o! !ndoV111111t Plmd e:rpenaee
M0011Dting and audit - Pension Trust Fund
Onnd Lodge trip to Deooto
JloTI.ng apenae
Xiaoellaneouo expcae
TOTAL 4lllillISTRAmE .A11D GEllllW.
~:slllibit B

ll50 ,000.00
700.00
1150, 700.00 .
124·409·04

• 99,751.68
11,6J2.04
25,612.76
46,997.J4
35,485.02

c•~

r.2a.a"

49 w ga

•

J05.48
J,JOS.48
(4,21.3.45)
10,942.87
2,885.1t9

• ;LJ '2611 a:z

• 27 091.25

• 679.51

• lJ,794.79

• 13,771.18

20,000.00
4,200.00
11,259.eo
5,655.52
9,837.02
4,050.00
750.00
2,J1.3.l2
J,016.29
4,760.oo
J,837.9J
4,500.00
650.00
1,200.00

10,000.00
4,200.00
10,86J.82
7,848.88
8, 71/J.1.3
i.,050.00
675.oo
1,952.81
J,96J.l/+

•

l!:lthibit B

I1un1ranc•

Balance, Jm1e .30, 1959

Balance, JlDl9 JO, 1959

l262,16J.19
158,681.26
14,231.68
43,284.67
66,234,43

Grand Lodge - Secretarial and othar

Increaee in Reserve

lo!!!.1 4dditiono to nev ho1pit&l at Deeoto Ho•

Xa1ntenance
Ho11J>ital and •dical
Pana and grollllde
General, plant, baildinga, and transportation
4dainiatrat1Te

A!IQ!!ISmATI!! AllD G1!l!RAL !aPllS!:

Ull.lPPROPRUTED lll!SEl!VE:
Balance, JlDl9 JO, 1958
Aaaeta assigned b,r reeidents o! HollB on adlliasion
including proceeds !rom sale o! real estate and
!roa·li!e insurance pollci.,.
Pensions aeaigned b,r residents o! Home
Deposits o! deceaeed residente ·
Incoll8 troa real eetate assigned b,r resident•
OD adlda1ioD

Balance, Jane Jo, 1958
Amount trano!erred !rom. Unappropriated Reserve
Contributions

(~)

llE'I' OPERATDIG EXPENSE - Exhibit B

Balance, Jmie JO, 1959

Charges to Reeerve:
.blount trana!erred to Bew Hoapit&l
Reaerva
JfontblT grants to residents
Aaount trans!erred to Funeral Reaer,..
Real utat• and illav.rance •llpenee

,JtJD 30. 1958

llE'I' OPERATnn EXP!NSJ: - l!lchibit B

lP.025.00

11,492.]J

JlJB 30. 1959
DICOTO OPp!TIJ!G DPDISB1

• 61,775.00

Balence, JUl!8 JO, 1959

l"IS!(j,L llAllS KllD!D
JOU 30, 1959 .&ID 1958

UPl!:RS! - COO'ARATIVll

DICBWE

Tbe asHte represented b,r tbaae ReHrves are included 1n assete o! th• Gell8ral l'lmd,
shown on Blch1.bit 4.

l!lmlRTAIIOO!JIT Rl!S!RYX:
Balance, Jm1e JO, 1958
Contributions
Leu: Entartainllont expenses o! Decoto
- - and Covina Ho11Ba
Decrease in Reaene

SCHl!DULE 5

MASOllIC HCll1!:'3 OF CALIP'O!!!!ll

KASOIIC HClll!S OF CALIFOBllU

Balance, Jmie JO, 1958
Increase tuneral allowance per resident !ro•
1175.00 to $200.oo
Trans!er !or ellpense and popnlation increue
Total a.,unt trans!erred !roa tklappropriated Reserve
Lesa 1 Funeral expense
Increase in Reeerve

347

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

346

395.98
(2,19J.J6)
1,096.29
75.oo
420.Jl

(946.~)

4,760.oo
2,160.00
soo.oo

l,677.9J
4,000.00
6oo.oo
1,200.00

so.oo

692.15
(J76.09)
2 S9J.93
l855.oo)
196.49

692.15
J,J4.J6

23.61

10,000.00

950.87

810.45
11,999.96
l,5Jo.oo
1,075.59
JOO.PO
1,691.71

11.98, 502. 82

I ~n~~J.1i!i

I il!MS~1~'1

•

I 23,574.05

f(23 ,574.05)

•10w01

I 31 51&95

14,.593.89
675.oo

1,272.08

~Joo.oo~

140.84

!llTlJ!D!!!!lT Il!CQ!B PW I

I 26 m.26

Contrilr.ltion !or !iao&l :rear ended
,,... JO. 1958
CoatributiOR !or !iecal J"l&r ended
Jun• JO, 1959
'fO'lAL B!Tll!l!!l!!IT Ilf!X!!I PW -

Jr,hibit B

30.261.81

30.261.81

I

6 &rz.76

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

349

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUD IT
JulJ' 9, 1959

To 'the ·Trustee s of the
CaliCor n1a Masonic Memoria1 Temple
llll. Califor nia Street
San Francis co 8, Califor nia
Gentlsn enr
We have examined the statsne nt of aauta, liabili
Califor nia Masonic Hamoria1 Temple, a Califor nia

June JO, 1959, and the relahcl. stateme nt of revenue
then ended.

and e:xpenae for the 7ear

Our examin ation was made in accorda nce with

auditin g standar ds, and accordi~ include d such
records ani:l such other auditin g procedu res as we

general l1' accepte d

tests of the account ing

conside red neceH11l7 in the

Contrib utions receive d during the 7ear ended June
Temple 811Klunted to $429,85 9.12, vhich lllllOunt has

ties and capital. of

non-pro :tit corpora tion, as of

30, 1959, for the

been added tO capital , as

shown on Exhibit A. The total contrib utions receive
d to Jun11 JO, 1959, for
the erectio n of the 'Tmiij>le are swnmarized as foll~s
Individ ual. contrib utions
Grand Lodge F. & A. H. of Califor nia:
Per capita from annual returns
Contrib utions of initiat es 0 19~00 each
Proceed s of sale of capital stock of
Masonic Temple Aeaoci ation of
Califor nia, Inc.
War Relie! ·Fund assets
B_equests and miscell aneous

ll,944,5 16.29

Total Contrib utions, as shown on Slchibit A

$4 23J 294 66

1,442,649~00

.399,.357.00
254,llm .50
158,507 .44
31.377.4,3

351

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

350

-3- 2 The contr ibutio ne from indiv idual

Masons are colle cted b:y Grand Lodge

iate~ on

F. & A'. M. and are t':1rned over immed

NOT&S TO FINANCIAL STAT!MENTS

SCHmULI!: 1

SUMKARY OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED

30,
Contr ibutio n pledg eo unpai d at June

,
Mason ic Memo rial Temple corpo ration
1959, amoun ted to approximate~ $55 1

colle ction to the Calif ornia

TWO PAG&s

000,0 0.

The unpai d pl.edg es are not taken

e until. the pledg e is
into accou nt as an asset b:y the Templ

SCHEDUI.1 2

SVMlfARy CF EXPl!:NS&s

JUNE 30. 1952

YE'AR ENDED

JUNE 30,· 1959

YEAR ENDl!D
JUNE 30. 1952

colle cted and turne d
Reepe cttull :y subm itted,

over to it,
;rear ended June
Net expen diture of fun!.s durin g the
to $541, 986,5 3,

Of this amoun t $127 1 424,9 5 was expen

30, 1959 amoun ted

ded to cover the net expen se

on Exhib it B, and the balan ce of

of that amount for the year as shown

$414, 561,5 8

the Temple
bill of the gener al contr actor of
was expen ded in pfl1111ent of the final
00,00 ;
on accou nt to the archi tect of $40,0
amoun ting to $348, 416,0 3; pa;yment
t'WO
the
to
of $22, 716,0 0 for altera tions
pe,yment of $10 1 260,0 0 on a contr act
ions.
$15,8 85.55 on misce llaneo us addit
exist ing women's rest rooms ; and
d
se items of signi fican t amount unpai
Our exami nation disclo sed no expen
at June 30, 1959, with the excep tion
$20,6 00,00 for the quart er ended

e~

of inter est accru ed of approximat

uune 30, 1959 on notes p~ahle,

is p"31'b le semi- anDla ll:y April let

and Octob er let,

In our opini on, subje ct to the foreg
statam ents prese nt fair~ the aseet
Mason ic Keno rial Temp le, at June

Thia inter est

oing comm ents, the accompan:ying

s, liabi lities and capit al of the

30, 1959, arisin g from cash trans

the reven ues colle cted and expen ses
on a basis consi stent with that of

Calif ornia

actio ns, an1

disbu rsed . b:y it durin g the :year then

ended ,

the prece ding :year,

We attac h the follow ing for :your

infon natio n:

EXHIBrr A

AND
STATEMENT OF ASSBTS, LIABil.ITIES
N§)
CAPrrAL (ARISING FROM CASH TRANSACTIO

JUNE 30. 1959

EXHIBrr B

STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSE

JUNE 30. 1959

YEAR ENDl!D

~~·~

Certi fied Publi c Accou ntants

352

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXIIIBIT A

CALIFCRllIA MASONIC MD!ORIAL TEMPLE
STATEME!i'I' OP' ASSETS, LIABILITW3, AND

JUllE 30 I

CAPITAL (ARISING rRCM CASH TRAllSACTIO!IS )"

CALIJl'ORBIA MASOin:C llDIORIAL TEMPLE

$

YEAR .!llDED J1JNE 30 1959

RBVDlll ft!Oll OPll:RATIOE 1
Rent ot garage

*Jli

1959

50.00

PROPERTY:
~
Buildilll! • Note 2
Buildins equipment
l"lirniture and fixtures
ConatructiOll in prOf!reBS - Note 2

515.00

ioo.oo

Grand Lodse o:t'ticea

18,ooo.oo

ClMll•up cbarpa

lo,26o . oo

5,872,382.19

LIABILITIF.S A1ID CAPITAL

5,68o.16

Onrt:i- cbargea

31i5;QO

Telephone collections

lli2.03

lliacellaneoua

$6,094,218.64

.79.05

Total Re~eaue traa ()peretiona
:IXPllSI P'R(J( OPIRATIOE :
O,Peratins u.iar, expense - Schedule 2

LIABILI'l'118:
llote1 payable to ballka - Rote 3
Rental depoeits tor future use ot
public apace

$2,o63,790.oo

0,Peratiq aenice expe11Be - Schedule 2

2,750.00

llaintenance ex;penae - Schedule 2

$2,oi56,5lio.oo

Total Liabilities

200.00

Rent ot orsan

$ 221,836.45

,oo6.83

45,050.00

Rent ot control :panel

$ 734,303.90
3,964,710.25
955,670.45
207,437 .59

TCll'AL ASSETS

I

Rent ot :t'Url!iture

Ji9,li92.65
7,635.30
164,658.5~

EXHIBIT B

STATDIDT 07 RZVEllUI AID EXPlllS!

Rent ot public apace

CASH Oii JIAHD ARD Ill BARKS:
Revolvins fund
C~rcial accounts:
Tbe Bani< ot Calitornia, N.A.
Ballk ot America B.T. a. S.A.
Savillf!8 account:
Tbe B&lllc ot C&li:t'ornia, B.A.

353

Insurance expense - Schedule 2

•

$1<>4,l.18.07

*

26,105.18

23,721i.77
3,~.69

14,895,90

Total baee trca <?peratioaa

CAPITAL:
-cOntributiona:
Received durins the year ended
Jun• JO, 1959 - Schedule l

Bet Revenue traa <?peratioaa

429,859.12

Total Contributions
Bet expe11Be:
Net expense to July l, 1958
llet expense tor the year ended
June 30, 1959 - Ezhibit B

68j330.5li

$3,8o1,li35.5li

OTlllR REVDUI AID !XPEllS!:

$

General and .a dministrative expense, includiq
intere1t aud property taxe1 - Schedule 2

76,191.07

~:

121,424 .95

Iutereat received 011 Hvillf!I balllr: deposits

$167,311.25
li,<>98.77

llet ~er Exi>enae

llet Expe11Be
Bet Capital

4 ! 027,678.64

TarAL LIABILITIF.S AND CAPITAL

$6',094 ,218.64

Tbe letter ot this report and the acccmpanying notes to financial statement• ahbuld be read
in conjunction vith this statement.

D'l' E:xPDBB - hhibi t A

'l'be letter ot this report alld tbe accOlll1'6 i
·
in conjunction vitb tbi• etatement.
n;y DI! notee to financial etateiaeata should be read

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Page l

CALIP'OllllIA MASORIC ICEllORIAL TEMPLE

xarzs TO FilWICIAL STATEMEllTS

CAl.IP'O!IBIA MABonc MBMORIAL TlllPLI
llO'm TO ll'IIWICIAL STAT!lmrrs (Continued)

BO'l'E l - Method of Accounting:

NC71'E 4 • Contingent Li&bilitJ:

The financial •tatemeote have been prepared oo the cash ·b&ai•
of accounting under vhich basis accrued receipts are not reflected iii·
the fioaocial statements ·until collected and accrued expenditures are
not reflected until paid.

suit agai~~ ~~~e;~~~ot~!o!· o~ the T911ple building baa filed a
contend the action ia without .:;i!t•c:, general couosel and trustees
• ,_o &never and cross-complaint
baa been filed vhich vill be vi
goroue...., prosecuted b7 cou118el for
the Tmi;ile.

BOTE 2 - Coit of Califoroia Masonic Memori&l .Tllll!ple:
AU .coets of coostruction of the Califoroia Masonic Mellor.i al
Temple vere paid at June 30, 1959, vith the e~ception of appr~1111&tel7
$140,000.00 due on the fee of the architect Albert F. Roller aod the
balance of $12,456.00 due James A. Nelson Co. upon caiwl•tion of a
contract of $22,716.00 for alterations to tbe vomen'• rest rooms.
MOTE 3 - Rotes Payable to Banks:
Rotes payable to banks are secured by a first deed of trust
on the Temple site real propert7 and the illprovements thereon. The
notes are r~able in annual instalments of $20,000.00 to eacb b&Dlt
beginning October l, 1958, and continuing annually thereafter until .
October l, 1965, oo vbicb latter date all &Ulllll of principal and
intereet tben unpaid •ball be due and payable. The notes bear
interest at the rate of 4~ per &Dnlllll, pa7able Hlli-annually April lit
and October l•t of eacb year. On Jul7 2, 1958 additiooal borrovinga
from the banks io the amount of $3'8,ooo.oo increased tbe amount of
the notea payable to $2,303,790.00 at that date. On September 30,
1958, $240,000.00, equal to tvo year'• instalments, was paid on the
notes reducing the loan to $2,o63,790.oo as follova:
American Tru•t Company
Anglo California Ratioll&l Baol<
Bank of America B.T. & S.A •
. .Crocker First Xation&l Baolt
of Sao Francisco
The B&Dlt of Califoroia, Ill.A.
Wells Fargo Bank

*

343,965.00
343,965.00
343,965.00
343,965.00
31>3,965.00
343,965.00

$2,o63,790.oo
Oo September 25, 1958, the loan commit.Dent fran the banks
vu reduced from $2, 76o,ooo.oo to $2,543, 790.00.: Of tbi• reduced
cc.Utment, the T911ple has borrowed a total of $2,303,790.00
leaving the balance of the loan cooaitment $21>0,000.00 at June 30,

1959·
A principal payment io tbe amount of $120,000.00 was made
on July l, 19591 subsequent to tbe date of tbe financial statements
berevith.

355

357

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

356

CALI!'ORBIA MASOllIC M!lllRIAL TZllPU

YElR DDED JlJlll 30 I 19~

SClllDULI! 2

CALll'OR1flA MASONIC llEMORIAL TEllPLB

sc!IEDUL5 l
SllMllARY OF EXPJ:l'ISES

YEAR EllDED JUBB 30 I 1959

OPEllATllfQ BAI.ARY EXPBllSI:
Salaries:
Building manager
Bagineer
Janitnra
Other employees

$5,800.00
8,310.00
9,422.41
1,391.10

StllCARY OF CoirrRIBU'l'IOllB BBCEIVED

r.

GRAlUl LClD(IB
lo A. X.
1958 annual returns :
•
Master Masons on June 30, 1958 8 .,.J..OO
per capita

f2Y.,541.oo
21,7o8.00

contributions of initiates 8 $9.00 eacb

TOTAL OPJ:RATDfG SALARY EXPERs.B: - Exhibit B

$256,249.00
Contributioms of initiat•• 1958-1959
fiscal year 8 $9.00 each

45,270.00
•301,519.00

~:

Adjustments and retuuda tor prertoue years

391>.oo
•301,123.00

DIDIVIDUAL COimllBl1llOIE

$ 24,923.51
950.11
230.90

Payroll taxes
llllion veltue

OPEllATI!IG SERVICE EXP.OSI:
Janitor services - outsi!le ti~
Janitor suppliea
Gu

Electricity
Elevator ser'lice
Water
Telephone and telegraph
Scavenger
M1scsllaneoua
rorAL OPERATDfG sERVICI BXPEllSI • Exhibit B

$ 26,105.18
•

4,587.o8

l,o89.96

2,950.74
10,200.33
3,212.50
395.99
319· 73
2o8.50
759.91!
• 23,724.11

14AmrEIWICB !XPERSE:
Painting
Plumbing
Glasing
Electrical
Aluminum survey and repair
Toole and hardware supplies
Landscaping
•
141acellaneoue
TOTAL MAlli'l'l!IWICE EXPENSE - Bzhibit B
Dl3UIWICB EJCPBllSB:
Fire
Earthquake
Public liabilit)'
Workmen's cOlll.P8nsation
Property
Miecel.laneous
TOTAL ll'ISURAllCE EXPEJISE - Exhibit B
GBllERAL AllD ADMDIIS'l'RAT!VE EXPEllSE I IELUDIRG Dl'l'llRBST
AllD PROPERTY TAXrS:
Interest on notea payable, instalment• due
October l, 1958 and April l, 1959
Real estate taxes - 1958-1959
Personal property taxea
Legal tees
Audit tees
Stationery and printing
Public relatioms
Pnetage and npreH
Miacellaneous
TOTAL GEBERAL A1IIl ADMI!IIS'l'RATIVE EXPEl'ISE - Exhib1 t B

t 7,203.41

1,667.81.
5,u4.15
205.67
452.93
251.90
$ 14,895.90

359

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

358

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RESIDENTS AT DECOTO
Annual Report 1958-1959
Names of Residenta--ME N-Average Age: 80.62 Yean
•Indicates Admission During Current Year
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No. Sacramento ..........85
Aldrich, Wm. B. • ......... .Feb. 24, '59 Capital City ......499 San Francisco ......86
Anderson, Alfred H .....Sept. 25, '51 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ......78
Armbruster, Wm. F ..... Sept.15, '55 Amity ..................370 Santa Rosa ..........87
Baker, Anthony D .........Oct. 5, '56 Santa Rosa ...- ... 57 Los Angeles ........66
Baril, Leon J ...................Feb. 22, '52 Jas. A. Foshay ..641 Sacramento ..........77
Barr, George W ............ M.ay 24, '54 Sacramelllto ........ 40 Santa Clara ..........76
Beckmann, Carl A ........M.ay 3, '51 Liberty ................299 Palo Alto ···-·····--88
Bonham, Walter R.• ....June 10, '59 Palo Alto ............346 San Diego ............73
Blum, John ....................May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35
77
Bradley,
..........523 Bellflower ............
Frederick w.• ..........Sept. 5, '58 Bellflower
............89
Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville
Bolton, George F .............Oct. 26, '55 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............ 79
Brattin, John Thos.• ......Aug.21, '58 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............79
Brossard, Adrian R. • ......Dec. 29, 58 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ..................80
Brown, Frederick A .....Oct. 17, '57 Fort Crook ........575 Fall River Mills ..70
Brown, Robert G ...........May 9, '57 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......86
Buhlinger, Wm. F .........Apr. 23, '55 La Mesa ..............407 La Mesa ................83
Bulen, Benj. F.• ............July 15, '58 Molino ................150 Tehama ................74
Burt, Byron H ...............Dec. 6, '56 Claiborne ............185 Point Arena ........90
Chalfant, Hal P .............Apr. 24, '57 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......86
Campbell, Archibald ....Dec. 22, '54 Santa Barbara ..192 Santa Barbara .... 82
Casey, Newman H .........Mar. 26, '55 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................78
Cicero, Carmel ............May 27, '53 Apollo ..................396 Alameda .............. 83
Condon, Wilbert S .........Jan.11, '42 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........76
Covington, Jas. G .........Aug. 30, '57 Truckee ..............200 Truckee ................81
Crawford, Thomas ........Oct. 30, '55 Colusa ..................240 Colusa .......- .........85
Crayton, Frank L .........Jan. 8, '58 Francis Drake ....376 San Francisco ......77
Portola ..................91
Darolles, Jean L.• ........Mar. 25, '59 Grizzly ................
Fort Jones ............91
Date, Harrington S ........Mar. 5, '48 North Stall' ..........601
91
Davidson, Thos. A ........Apr. 4, '55 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ............ ;...77
Dixon, James G.• ..........June 11, '59 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............82
Donaldson, Chas. G .......Feb.14, '58 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......80
Duebel, Charles ...........Apr. 5, '58 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ................76
Lindsay ................74
Du Bois, Andrew B .......Apr. 30, '58
Edwards, George T. • ....Dec. 3, '58 Lindsay .....- .......416
Frare, Giacomo ........... Apr. 1, '51 Speranza
Italiana ............219 San Francisco ......78
Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ........69
Frost, Harold G .............Nov. 1, '45 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne ..........82
Ga.ge, DeWitt Clinton..Feb. 1, '58 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......89
Galvin, Wm. A...............July 23, '55 Oak Grove ......... .215 Alameda ..............88
Godfrey, Henry S ...........July 25, '54 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........90
Graver, Robert E ...........Mar.17, '58 Curtis ..................140 Cloverdale ............79
Green, Robert F .............May 7, '58 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............67
Grogan, Robert G ........ Aug. 11, '53 Lakeshore ..........551 Oakland ....- ..--81
Groom, Francis G. • ........Oct. 24, '58 Piedmont ............521 Piedmont ..............69
Hacker, Harold E .......... Apr. 7, '58 Truckee ..............200 Truckee ................67
Hackleyi..Halford L ......M.ar. 13, '56 Silver Trowel ....415 Los Angeles ........86
Halpin, .ttobert L .............Oct. 23, '53 Las PalmaS ........366 Fresno ...........- ...81
Hancock, James G .........Jan. 9, '58 Pal.isa.des .......- ...637 Santa Monica ......74
Hanson, Oscar Chas .....Nov. 7, '55 Lindsay ..............416 Lindsay ................85
Harth, Arth\l[" P .......... .5ept. 4, '40 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........69
Hartman, Wm. L .......... Aug. 29, '56 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................77
Hendricks, Alfred ........Nov. 17, '50 Calistoga ............233 Calistoga ..............80
Herhold, Wm. P.• ..........Aug.11, '58 Park ....................449 San Francisco ......91
Higgins, Edward L .......J •a n. 20, '56

Adm1"tted
H Name
Lodge
No.
T
Hohn, WWilliam .............. Nov. 26 '57
own
Age
Hopped Cm. H .............Dec. 11' '57
370 San Francisco
87
hCarhliel D. • ....May 9;.59
........234129Los
S
Angeles ..::::::85
Hui'
w' ar es ......Mar. 5 '54 Maripos ............
anta Barbara ....76
Jack~haralllapce S .........Dec. 27: '52 Hammo;t~~···· ..--·43234 MHariposa ..............79
I · '
...............Jan. 9 '38 Presidi
......
ammonton
82
J~mg,
W~.•es -~................
May 30' '59 Uto ia o ..............354 San Francisc~ .......80
e ts, BenJamm J .........Oct. • ,
J '! ..................537 Los Angeles ......92
27 • ,48 Burc;ce ................549 Los Angeles
~ohnson, Gustave E .......Aug 28
........35
56 D:1: ..................393
Jones, George W. • ........July.28'
'58
Los Angeles ........81
ones, Howard T .......... .Aug
•,
H
!l ................309 Delano
........83
een Cassius H
· 14' 53
425 H 1 · .................
0 1tville
.
Kelle~
Reuben C.........fec. 15, '51 University............ 394 Lo t~e ................77
K
Kenna'rd, Joseph
2199.:5568 DCurant ...... ::::::::::268
........7859
Kerr David
.
enter
465 Fres
............ ..
Klei~kauf s .......E_......Jan. 8,' '58 King
Soio~~~-....260 San Fo ....:.............
71
0

ii111Jty ..................
M~gne~h~ck

H~fed1'er

w:::::..o~~B~;kelegyeles
!:""°"'
M'icb:\ Ji;::·j.~\; ~· :~~ ~-· .._._.:::s51 r.o. ~d':;
Lair, Allen ................... .Nov: 25' '55 J~ti' Barbara .. 192 Santa Barbara···-t,
......75
lngle~~

~:::76

L::r:nHce, bEdrtwarWd S ...Mar. 22: '47
............426041 !Santa Ana .......
' er e
.........Nov 5
b
..........
nglewood
67
London, Morris W .........May • ,'54 B
Fur a.nk ..............406 Burbank ............78
6 '56
57 HillthFill ..............564 Oakland ................91
LooLowthk,Wm.
C
..................
M.ay
21'
er,
'
s erry ........236 Newman ................
Lawrence R
..............89
L yons, G eorge...............
June
255' '59
'57 E
Guardi
W.
•
........
Feb
k
an
............
596
South
Gate
McCall,
· '
ure a ................ 16 Auburn
91
..........80
Wm McL ll
................. .
4 56
McClain, Ro~e~ :E ........
..............103 Oroville
93
McGraw J h H.........~opvt.· 28•-'. 57 HOroville
awthome
647 H
................
M rt" ' o n
.........
June
27
'58
South
........
awthome
55
a ~· George W .........Mar 17' '56 Seq . G a t e ........
320 Los Angeles ..........79
artmsen Th
A
· '
uoia
349 Oak
...... ..
M
May,
Fred ...... ..........
.............
earns, John C ....... Mar. 3' '47 Go en s· ip ..........210 San Jose ............95
M
:melrth' Harry ...::::::::::::Mar: 10: '58
Gate ...... 30 San
ou rop,
ew
............ 401 Oakland
Carlton C •
............... .75
M ood y, Fredenck
. ;..........
,.
..
Apr.
11, ,'59 S
Oak G rove ........215 Alameda
O .... .Aug. 27
74
55
ortenson,
Cruz ........ 126
38 S ant a Cruz.............
Myers
R b Fred H. • ......July 3'• '58 LaanFtaayette
...........79
M
' o ert ................Oct 12 '57 Fidelit
........
Sebastopol ............ 76
Motoska, Julius N. • ......Mar: 27,' '59 N o rth em
y ..............120 San Francisco ......80

~:

~~~- ~~· :~i FriTe!iacdhah~i--::::::::::313 Teh!~~pi"
Bayld~i

gg

Franc~co·::::::85

Ni~b~· Jw-es B .......... Apr. 17, '53 wL1ht ................190 Millville
87
Nielse g,c mlM.F .........Aug. 27, '58
..........
sestwood··::::::::::::79
N
ar
·: ........... Sept. 4, '57 Santa Barbara.... 192 Sacramento ..........81
or rom, David P. Nov 3 •5 Doric
....
anta Barbara ....73
of~~ey,
~arles W .... :.".".'.Dec: 16: ,492 N' l ....................216 San Francisco 91
0
Peale:Char1fls W........... A.Feb. 16, :57
rieatland ...... ::::::82
Plato John
........... ug. 18, 51 Montebello ........451 Mong Beach .......... 74
Porte'r W ....................Feb. 5, '48 Lo B
ontebello
76
' Wmm. G ...............Aug. 8, '46 Ut ng. each ........
........327 Long Beach .......... 95
· 'W rn· . H .............Sept. 23, '55 Wopia ..................537 Los Angeles..........85
Powell
ce,
iam L
F b 18 '
est Gate ..........335
An
...... ..
Randol h G
........... e . ' 54 San Francisco 360 Los
Pri
Sa F gel.es ........84
...._
P ' eorge E.• ..Feb. 6 •59 L"
....
~
n
ranciseo
73
.<l.U;rnor,
ive Oak ............405
61 Oakland
......91
inholdClarence
G b . R .......Apr. 2o'' •57 Moneta
L
................
.
'
a
r1el
........
Sept.
30,
'56
Bay CitY..............
os Angeles ........91
Re
RiRoachardson, Wm. T .......July 29 '50 Santa M~..:;: ........558206 RSan Francisco ...... 79
.,•. 6,',54 Needles ou- ......
amona ................66
les, Robert W ...........0 ....
326 Needles
R och·e' George W ...........J an. 18 '57 So Pas.ad..............
................74
R
ossi, Valentino• ......... M.ay • ,
·
ena ......367 S. Pasadena
13
59
umfelt, Clarence P.• ..Jan. ' •
~evelt ............500 San Francis~~ .......84
90
R
Schooley, A uburn L. • ..Mar. 19• 59 Live Oak
..... .83
2, '59 East Bay ............ 6l Oakland ................
........... .489 Berkeley ..............85

dsf'

Ca~i~cc1ity

~g91w

L~~~ ~:a-~h·----·---~~~

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
83
........
les
Ange
gton ....:.......414 Los
Shan non, Lew is P.• ________Jall. 28, '59 Arlinchap
i ............93
chap
Teha
313
.
.........
i
Teha
'55
25,
Shiel ds, Sam uel A. ........June
Ange les ........75
Sunn yside ·-·······577 Los
Shor t, Benj amin A. ......Apr il 5, '55
Ange les ........72
Los
--596
···-··-'57
dian
Skin ner, Haro ld R. ........June 30, '59 Guar
ands ..............77
Redl
300
...
.........
ands
Redl
Spar ks, Warre11 T. • ........Jan. 6,
ands ..............89
Redl
300
...
.........
ands
Redl
'56
San Andr eas ______ 88
Sterl ing, John W •..........Nov . 8, '44
78
.
.........
veras
Stew art, Jame s O...........Feb. 20, '55 Cala
dena ............272 Pasa dena ········-----86
Stree t, Alvi n Clyd e..... .Apr. 14, '53 Pasa
.................... 79
13,
···-·············417 Clov isndo Beac h ..82
is
July
Clov
.....
W
Geo.
d,
erlan
Suth
Redo
328
.....
.........
ndo
Suth erlan d, Wm. M .......Mar. 10, '58 Redo
·······72
Live Oak ............ 61 Oakl and ·······Tafo ro, Char les R .........Nov. 18, '57
............667 Glen dale .............. 73
dian
Meri
'56
4,
Feb.
.......
F
r
Elme
,
.....81
Thom pson
Oak Grov e ..........215 Alam eda ...............
88
Thor nton , Fran cis G. • ..Mar. 28, '59
..... 139 San Fran cisco
.........
kett
Croc
'46
2,
Mar.
..
.........
E
y
Tilsn er, Henr
219 San Fran cisco ......76
.....
Ital
anza
Sper
'57
22,
.Feb.
........
S
k
Trab ucco , Fran
ersit y ..........394 Los Ange les ........85
Vale ntine , Euge ne P .....Mar. 8, '57 Univ
Van Ever y,
King sbur g ............95
ar. 22, '59 Trav er ................294 Taft ........................75
Sam uel E. • ···········-··.M
6
·····42
·····-··
'47
ay
2,
Midw
Nov.
Wall is, Abra ham G .......
191 San Rafa el ............80
Mari n ···-·············
Ward en, Robe rt A ........ .Jun e 1, '56
181 Wind sor ·········-···--81
....
r
Rive
ian
Russ
'55
28,
Wate rman , Alfre d S .....Feb.
144 San Fran cisco ....•.88
.....
.........
ntal
Orie
'51
4,
.
Well s, Wm. S .... _...........Aug
San Dieg o ............78
561
.
.........
o
Dieg
San
'54
4,
Whit e, Harr y Chas.........Dec.
San Jose ................76
210
.
.........
dship
Frien
5, '58
Wild er, Wm. R. •--·-······.Dec.. 24,
.468
.........
Oakl and ···-··· ···---7 7
ridge
Rock
'46
Willi ams, Chas . F .........Aug
nd ..............603 Oakl and ................67
Dimo
'57
3,
June
....
.........
C
er
Walt
s,
Willi
Beac h ·····-·--81
Sear chlig ht ........567 Longdena
........__74
Wils on, Chas . R. • ..........Nov. 6, '58
24 Pasa
···-···3
'59
········
8,
na
May
Coro
....
R.*
erick
Fred
d,
Woo
·-··--- 82
680
········
.......
el
.........
Carm
el
Zuck , Jame s Ralp h ........Feb. 11, '56 Carm
138
Tota l Men
Dea ths-M EN

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Died
Name
81
......
cisco
Jewe l ···-·············374 San Fran
Ande rson, Chas . E .....- ..July 5, '58
4
··-···8
·········
124
..
dise
Para
ntain
Mou
e
'58 Tabl
Bank s. Wm. ·······-·········Aug. 20,
Sant a Cruz ........ 38 Sant a Cruz --------86
Barb er, Sanf ord M .......May 28, '59
-83
·Sant a Cruz ..........38 Sant a Cruz ····---Bass ett, Henr y N ...........July 2, '58
r King ..........344 San Fran cisco ......82
Star
'59
24,
Jan.
......
.........
Chas
Saul
Batt,
ogre s de L'
Belli na, Chas . Henr y....Nov. 27, '58 LePr
Ocea nie ..........371 Hono lulu ·-·-····---88
eley ···-·····---91
'58 Dura nt -···········---268 Berkdbrid
ge .....•..•.78
Cam eron , Wm. Harr y..Sept . 18,
......131 Woo
ge
dbrid
Woo
'59
4,
Mar.
..
.........
J
ard
Chas e, Leon
...346 Palo Alto ·········-···99
.........
Alto
Palo
'59
23,
Apr.
.......
E
nce
......91
Child s, Clare
Gold en Gate ...... 30 San Fran cisco .......
92
Colli ns, Wm. W ...............July 1, '58
.480 Oakl and .........
.........
p
wshi
Fello
'59
2,
Mar.
.......
L
t
Dahl gren , Beng
Beve rly Hills ......83
509
....
klin
Fran
.
Benj
'59
1,
Mar.
......
Drap er, Wm. C .........
no ................247 Fresn o .................. 75
Dunc an, Cary G ...........Sept . 6, '58 Fres
·····--81
traz ·········-··-244 Oakl and ·······-........
Alca
'59
29,
.Apr.
78
Davi s, Geor ge F ....._ ....
Ange les
Los
290
...
.........
Gate
East
'59
17,
Jan.
Estel le, Floy d ................
Ange les ........85
Los
392
.
.........
Lake
West
'58
12,
July
...
Farm iloe, Cyre nius T
o ............74
S. W. Hack ett. .....574 San Diegcisco
...... 75
Griff in, Wm. G ...............Nov. 19, '58
Fran
San
474
.......
.........
ry
Victo
'59
19,
Hage rman , Roy E ...........Jan.
nevil le ..........77
Guer
295
........
son
Jack
Mt.
'59
1,
Hart man, Char les ..........Jan.
-82
Belm ont Shor e ..716 Long Beac h ·····-·...... 73
Hart man, Erne st A .......July 16, '58
cisco
Fran
San
344
.
.........
King
r
Star
'59
Hym an, Milto n ..............Apr. 27, '58 Euca lyptu s ........243 Hayw ard ..............57
Mayc roft, Jas. B ............. Nov. 14,
Bem ardin o..348 San Bern ardin o....81
Mitc hell, Edw ard L .....June 8, '59 San
How ard .............. 37 Yrek a ···········-·····--82
Noel , Char les L .............Mar. 16, '59
Elsin ore ..............289 Elsin ore ·······-·······78
'59
24,
Feb.
..
ck
Patri
Wm.
O'Br ien,
Nato ma··· ······- ···- 64 Folso m ··-----....84
'58
10,
.July
......
W
Park er, Fran klin

GRANO LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

361

Age
Admitted
Town
No.
Name
Lodg e
75
____
'58 Justi ce ···-······----549 San Fran cisco
Robe rts, Dani el Chas...Sept . 8, '59
90
.•......
Park
ga
Cano
611
.......
.........
llga
Sanf ord, Edw ard C.......Apr. 19,
']._an
~e~grave, Fran k E .........Apr . 3, '59 p po o ..................396 Alam eda -···-·· -···81
80
'58
12,
Aug.
.........
J
ur
Arth
c ultz,
Den~alpha ........ ..202 Los Ange les - ......82
Stap~, Fred erick W .....Nov. 24, '58 &rJ.C ....................216 San Fran cisco ......91
mon a ............. .457 Mon terey Park .... 69
;rrtk ms, Wilf red G .......Mar. 24, •59
'59 UniVel"S1"tY •••••••••. 394 Los Ange les
y son, Walt er ..............Feb. 16, '59
oung , Fran k E.............Apr. 28,
Holl enbe ck ···-···3 19 Los Ange les ::::::::s5
With draw als-M EN-1 958- 1959
"d
259 R.
green
.....
ivers1 e ··············75
Gruh n, Erni e E ......... .Apr . 21, '59 Ever
··········
........ 73
Monta no • Jas · T .............Aug. 8, ,58 Eucl id ..................519 Los Ange les

362

363

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESIDENTS AT DECOTO

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Dudley, Annie Laura....Feb. 8, '58 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........7 4
Douthitt, Edith A ...........Jan. 21, '50 Galden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......82
Dunn, Mabel. I.................Oct. 3, '57 Willow Glen ......676 San Jose .............. 72
. Edwardes, L.ma M ........ .May 23, '50 rfesi~o ..............354 San Jose .......- .......77
Edwards, Emma L .........Nov. 1, '52 _osaic ···-······-···218 Livennore ............77
Edwards, Eleanor B. • ....Dec. 3, '58 Lllildsay ..............416 Lindsay ................72
Elliott, Maude M ...........June 15, '48 B~ver~y Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ......81
Eno, Daisy Mae..............Feb. 25, '58 Wilshrre ..............445 Los Angeles ........75
Ely, Eva Estelle..............Aug. 24, '55 Buckeye ..............195 Winters ................76
Fanning, Jennie H ......... Nov. 4, '57 Oaklan? ..............188 Oakland ................79
Feiling, Idabel C. • ....... .Feb. 3, '59 Mtn. View ...- .....194 Mtn. View............ 78
Fish, G!!rtrude L .............Jan. 26, '46 Elmh~t ·······-···610 Oakland ···-···········95
Flemm.mg, Thora J .......Jan. 3, '58 Mendoc.mo ........179 Mendocino ·······-···'1'1
Foley, Lida E •..................Apr. 18, '55 Bellfl<?~er ..........523 Bellflower ............67
French, Lydia J .............Dec. 9, '57 Hawa1:1an ............ 21 Honolulu ..............83
Gabbs, Augusta E .... _...Jan. 30, '57 Carqu~nez ..........337 Crockett ..............87
Gap-ison, Pearl P ...........Apr. 9, '56 RO!leville ·······-···222 Roseville ·······-·····82
Geibel, Theresa ............Feb. 4, '53 Fa.J.rI?ount ..........435 San Francisco ....81
Gerard, Martha J ...........Oct. 27, '54 Stamsla~ ..........206 Modesto ................79
G~rbert, ~r~ces E.* ... .May 2, '59 Tl.nee Pillars ....612 Sacramento ........80
g~filert, Tillie B ....- .......Feb. 2, '57 Hillcrest ............573 Berkeley ........... _.82
i am, Estelle G ........ .Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ................615 Hemet ..................75
Goldst~in, Pauline ......Nov. 21, '50 San Jose ···-······· 10 San Jose ·······-··-···88
Goodw.m, Emma ..........June 13, '48 VermontSquare 515 Los Angeles ........86
Grant,_ Lillian A.............Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ...... 25 Georgetown ........84
Guthrie, Rena ................May 27, '52 Buc).teye ..............195 Winters ................83
Hannah, Hannah May..June 8, '56 Doric ···············-···216 San Francisco
76
Hardy, Alice M ............ .Dec. 27, '54 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ..........::::::87
Harper, Laura D ........... Nov. 6, '57
0
Harrison, Martha ..........Nov.19, '52 i~ soiolii~il.-~··2gA ~ Fralic~oo··::::Z:
Harter, Clara B ............ .May 17, '58 Golden Rule ......479 San Jose ................81
Hays, Lilian T ................ .May 5, '55 Center ···········-···465 Fresno ·······-·········63
Hedburg, Huldah A.....Mar. 5, '58 Fresno ................247 Fresno ..................80
Hegler, Bernice A.* ......July 15, '58 C~t .............. 45 Crescent City ......85
Hepburn, Catherine ....Apr. 7, '52 ~isades ............ 637 Santa Monica ......67
Hewitt, Frieda Z ...........Nov. 7, '46 K.mg Solomon's 260 San Francisco ......75
Higuera, Elizabeth ........Jan. 16, '54 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ···-···········90
Hill, Neva A.................. .Dec. 5, '55 gakl~d ..............188 Oakland ·······-·······75
om.mg Star .... 68 Stockton ..............74
Hin~e, Henrietta M.......Jan. 27, '54
Hollis, Maybelle J .........Feb. 11, '53 Francis
K. Shattuck. ...571 Berkeley .............. 75
Hopper, Lotta S ............ .Dec. 11, '57 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........ 85
Hoover, Emma Jane......Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena .............. 79
Hoskins, Elizabeth....... .May 3, '55 Lancaster ............437 Lancaster ..............80
Hull, Agnes ....................Aug. 16, '55 Menlo Park ........651 Menlo Park ..........94
Hunter, Jeain•ie* ............July 14, '58 Brooklyn ............225 Oakland ................81
Hyland, Erle Woods......Dec. 3, '56 Sun Garden ........530 Fresno .................. 72
Hyman, Loretta ........... .Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......67
Jacobsen, Josephine ....June 25, '54 So. California ....278 Los Angeles ........87
Jerome, Gwendolyn ....Aug. 21, '56 Jas. A. Foshay....641 Los Angeles ........ 78
Jobes, Hala S .................Nov. 26, '56 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........90
Johnston, Ada T.•..........July 2, '58 McKinley ...........•347 Richmond ............ 75
Johannsen, Meta M .....June 9, '58 ~mont ..............497 Oakland .............. 75
Jones, Edith ..................Jan. 2, '53 Victorville ..........634 Victorville .......... _90
Jordan, Evaline Alice..Mar. 27, '56 Hw::tJ.ey ..............199 Lakeport ..............89
Kapantais, Edith R. ......Feb. 14, '55 Iorac ···-···············520 Los Angeles ........ 75
Kapp, Carrie E .............July 16, '49 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose .............•87
Kauffman, Eda B .......... .Dec. 7, '46 Alex.
Graham Bell ..595 Los Angeles ........ 77
Keenan, Effie ................July 17, '33 Jewel ..................374 San Francisco ......82
Kent, Evaline C ...........Sept. 6, '55 Golden Ga·te ...... 30 San Francisco ...... 75

Annual Report 1958-1959
Names of Residents-WOMEN-Average Age: 81.31 Years
*Indicates Admission During Current Year
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Allen, Maude* ..............Aug. 22, '58 Lexington ..........104 El Monte ..............77
Ames Myra D .................May 8, '54 Delano ·······-·······309 Delano ..................72
Anderson, Hattie M.......May 30, '57 Jewel ..................374 San Francisco ......85
Anderson, Mary D .........Nov. 19, '51 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................84
Andrews, Lela M. • ......Sept. 2, '58 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................83
Ashbrooke, Minnie M...Apr. 16, '57 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........82
Baker, Annie J ...............May 15, '48 Sequoia ···-·········349 Oakland ···-···········83
Barnes, Elaine G ...........July 7, '34 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........89
Barr, Mabel Wixson......May 24, '54 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........79
Bartlett, Eva R ...............Apr. 10, '53 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ···-·········86
Bauersfeld, Anna K. ....June 28, '57 Unity ..................368 Glendale .............. 89
Bausch, Ella A...............Oct. 2, '41 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ..............94
Bavouset, Cora ..............Nov. 2, '55 West Adams ......565 Los Angeles ........ 75
Belknap, Annie L .........Oct. 24, '56 Temblor ..............477 Fellows ................83
Bell, Clare R ...................June 21, '57 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......89
Bell, Edith L .................Mar. 29, '58 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......78
Berringei:-, Lucy C .........Nov. 28, :55 Crocket~ .............. 139 San Frapcisco ....81
Bloy, Edith ....................Nov. 2, 55 Dunsmwr ..........297 Dunsmmr ............87
Blum, Lena ...•............... .May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............71
Boren, Maud B. • ............Oct. 16, '58 Eel River ............147 Fortuna ................84
Bowman, Ottie B ...........Apr. 3, '54 Heney Morse ....541 Berkeley ..............78
Boyer, Mfl;dred A ......... Sept. 14, '52 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Franci_:;co ......87
Bradic, Elizabeth H .....June 3, '44 Golden Gate ...... 30 San FrancJSco ....67
Brann, Laura T .............Jan. 14, '56 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles ........86
Brewer, Nana N. • ......... .Dec. 20, '58 Highland Park....382 Highland Park ....76
Brokaw, Leona C ...........Apr.17, '58 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ..................78
Brown, Jean L ...............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........79
Brown, May M ...............Nov. 29, '42 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 87
Brown, Nellie E .............Oct. 12, '57 Pajara ..................110 Watsonville ..........76
Browne, Rachel R .........June 21, '54 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno .................. 70
Bcyon, Hortense P .......Sept. 30, '52 Golden State ....358 Los Angeles ........73
Busby, Hattie 0. • ..........Jan. 2, '59 Center ................465 Fresno ..................79
Campbell, Lucy A. ........Sept. 11, '50 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............94
Carter, Adelia M. • ........July 1, '58 Santa Cruz ........ 33 Santa Cruz ..........86
Carroll, Nellie P ............ .Aug. 27, '49 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ..........88
Carswell, Adella B. • ....Dec. 31, '58 LaFayette ..........126 Sebastopol ..........87
Casterline, Mary A. ......Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............86
Childers, Cora ..............June 14, '57 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......83
Cheney, Hazel E ...........Aug.15, '51 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento ..........73
Chesworth, Naomi E ....Sept. 7, '56 So. Pasadena ....367 So. Pasadena ......66
Cicero, Antoinette ......Mar. 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ·······-··-······-·66
Clark, Marietta ............May 10, '58 Rising Light ......397 Huntington Pk.....95
Cope, Hattie May..........July 29, '52 Hartley ..............199 Lakeport ..............83
Cortright, Laura .......... Sept. 7, '54 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............82
Cundell, Isabel ..............Dec. 16, '44 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........ 84
Dahlgren, Anna C .........July 22, '55 Fellowship ........480 Oakland ................92
Dalton, Meta C ...............Jan. 27, '51 Live Oak............ 61 Oakland ................80
Daly, Martha N .............Jan. 24, '54 Menlo Park ........651 Menlo Park ..........67
Davis, Minnie B .............Dec. 21, '53 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ..............89
Dibble, Catherine O ..... Sept. 10, '53 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........82
Dilling, Margaret M. • ..Mar. 19, '59 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................83
Dixon, Nora E ...............Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ......... .392 Los Angeles ........84
Dodge, Helen L ............ .Aug. 21, '53 Harbor ................502 Richmond ............74
Donaldson, J. Elaine....Feb. 14, '58 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............78
Dott, Edna O ...................June 11, '52 Washington ........ 20 Saeramenito ..........88

364

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Admitted
Name
Richmond
............
80
'57 Alpha ···-···-········431 Mill Valley ···-·····83
Knott, Ama._nda C •········A ug. 27
4' '55
Mill
Valley
........
356
Kramer Alice L ...........June ,
............75
···-··-···143 Courtland
Kirtlan,' Minnie E •....._...Jan. ~· :~: Franklin
San Francisco ......84
Fairmount
..........
435
KreJ· cik Rose ...........- ...Feb. 1 ,
Sequoia ·······-·····349 Oakland ···-··-·-···89
· · ·······-··-.A
.Jan• 25 , '49
Krejcik,' Otilia
,51 Bakersfield
........224 Bakersfield ·····-···83
29
Kutzner, Estella ........... ug. ,
Lagomarsino,

t

,

Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ........84
Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ............85
48
Lane Edith B................. ar. 5,
Los Angeles .....•..71
Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ·······-··-···405 Honolulu ..............78
Larte'r , Gertrude• M ......M
Hawaiian
............
21
16
'59
Look, Carol M. ........... ar. •,
San Luis Obispo ..93
Latimer Helen B .... _.....Oct. 2, 56 King David's......209 San Francisco ......75
Parnassus
..........
388
Lawren~e Irma A• ......Oct. 20, '58
Campbell ..............71
Levitt Liilu E .................Apr. 15, '58 Charity ................362 San Francisco ......81
Lusco:Obe Laura C.....June 29, '58 Richmond ..........375 Los Angeles ···-···81
MacAllist~r, Emily F ...Aug. 19, '52 Larchmont ........614 Oakland ................80
Mackenzie, May W .. _...June 30, :41 Bay View ..........401 Eureka ..................83
MacKinnon, Ivy M •......Aug. 29, 57 Humboldt .......... 79 Los Angeles ........96
California ....278
MacReady, Mattie D .....Jan. 10, :~~ So.
Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........84
McCord, Zidana M .........Oct. 18, ,
46 Educator ···-·······554 San Francisco ......83
McCully, Gertie M •.....June 16, '58
Wasco ···-··-··-·····583 Wasco ·-···-·····-··-·'76
McNairn, Verda A .......July 29,
McDaniel,
.A
,
........493 Atascadero ..........83
Elizabeth W. ............. pr. 12• 58 Atascadero
Alcatraz
..............
244 Oakland ···-···········83
McDowell, Alice M .......Mar. 24, '32
Alameda ..............84
Mciver, Ella W ...............July 9'.4~ Oak Grove ..........215 San Bernardino ..81
Phoenix
···--····-178
McLure Anna B ...........May 29, 5
Healdsburg ..........94
Matthe,;_,s, Annie W •......Mar. 9.,gg Sotoyome ............123 Richmond ............86
Alpha
·······-·········431
Mayfield, Mary ............Sept. ~~· ,
San Luis Obispo ..76
Meck, Lulu M ...............Sept. • ,55 King David's ....209 Santa Rosa ..........90
Santa
Rosa
···-···
57
Meneray, Emma P .........Aug. 10, ,57
...... 51 Colfax ···-··-··-··-···80
. Merrill, Ivy L .................Jan. 25,,41 Illinoistown
................352 Los Angeles ........76
Miller, Catherine E •......Apr. 20, ,51 Sunset
San Bernardino ..348 San Bernardino ..82
Mitchell Maude N .........Dec. 20, 5 Alpha
..................431 Richmond ·······-···91
Monro Edith c .............Mar. 6, '46
·············-···'79
Moore' Allie V .................Jan. 4, '57 Or land ···········-···265 Orland
Beverly Hills ......80
Murrell Catherine ........Jan.12, '52 John MarshalL...636 Glendale ___ .......66
..................368
Nicolau~, Erma M.* ......Jan. 27, :~g Unity
Fruitvale
............336 Oakland ·······-··-···81
Nielsen, Est~ M ...............Oct.
Crockett
..............
139 San Francisco ......81
57
Nordman, Nma J ...........June 1 ,
O'FDfnnell, D
June 1 '43 Durant ···-···········268 Berkeley ·········-···96
oreMc:e .. ··············May 2a' '52 Humboldt ·········· 79 Eureka ...............•..76
Olsen,M ~e ················Oct 31' '57 Santa Cruz ········ 38 Santa Cruz ···-·····68
Ppace, kayK tTe·-·c············:Mar" 25' '47 Alcatraz ...........•..244 Oakland ................86
eacoc , a
..........
· ',
F •tv 1
336 Oakland -·-··-··-···82
Perger, Eva ···-··-····-···Sept.187, ,4585 p~1l a e ............353 Hercules ................75
,,,.
Nina F
.Mar
mo e ···-···-···-···
85
Pf. elller,
···-······ J . 27 '59 Los Angeles ······ 42 Los Angeles ········
Pp!tnter A.fla. dH. 5··········.F:b" 5' '54 Mendocino ···-···179 Mendocino ·······-···'79
it s,
e a1 e ·········· .D • 1' '55 Natoma
64 Folsom ···-······-·····85
Powell, Mary W •....·-···· ec. • ,
M ·
············-191 San Rafael ..........90
4
.
Rose
June
30
5
arm
··················
t
P ren ice,
·············· .J
•,
Alcatraz ···-·····-.244 Oakland ·······-·······97
Preslar, Ida ···-··-··-··-·· an. 199• ,41
S"l
Gate
.296 San Diego ............68
Prucha, Velma F ...........Feb.1 •,57 c1 ltlr ·
···-·· 1 San Francisco ......84
Purcell, Susie M .............Oct. 19, 57 Oa "dorntaial ·········· 22 San Francisco ......80
b Gertrude L
.Dec 17 '57 cc1 en
..........
.
Ra y,
. D····-···· July. 21' '48 Normal Heights 632 San Diego ···-··-···'1'1
Reasoner' Mane
·········
•
336
Oakland
···-··-·-···88
Resau, Luella B .............Mar· 31 , '56 Fruitvale •...........
Henrie~ta• ................SMep · 12.,58

g. ,

Robertson,
.A
,
Morgan Hill.......463 Morgan Hill •.......83
Annette M. ·······-··-·· ug. 1, 52 Mission ··-··········169 San Francisco ......85
Rose Mary ·······-··-·······Sept. 6, '56 Pacific ···-·-·······136 San Francisco ......'73
Ross: Jean ···-······-·-····.Apr.16, '58

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

365

Admitted
Name
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Rounds, Florence B .....June 12, '54 Jonathan ............ 545 San Francisco ......87
Rudebeck, Anna ..........Dec.15, '48 Balder ................ 393 San Francisco ......87
Ryder, Bertha Anna*....Oct. 17, '58 West Lake .......... 392 Los Angeles ..._...75
Salter, Julia A ...............Jan. 5, '54 Crockett .............. 139 San Francisco ......89
Sandbo, Maude R ........ .Dec. 5, '52 Golden Rule ......479 San Jose ···-···········79
Sanders, Edith P ......_...Apr. 5, '58 Inglewood ..........421 Inglewood ···--···-84
Schooley, Mary A* ......Mar. 2, '59 East Bay ............489 Berkeley ·····-·······82
Schlingman, Rose ....... .Feb. 2, '57 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ........_92
Scovel, Marie M. •···-·····July 4, '58 Santa Ana ..........241 Santa Ana ............63
Seagrave, Edna R ...........May 14, '52 Palo Alto ............ 346 Palo Alto ···-·········74
Scott, Emma L ..........- ...Aug. 29, '52 Arcata ............•...106 Arcata ·······-····-···88
Seymour, Laura ........... .Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ·······-···409 Honolulu· ····-··-··81
Shanks, Ella ···-········-···Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............88
Shenick, Eleanor ···-····.Aug. 2, '57 W. Los Angeles 373 W. Los Angeles ..78
Slocumb, Mabel W •......Apr. 25, '56 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ···--···81
Smith, Sue E .......·-····-··.Mar. 22, '56 Concord ···-·········117 Sacramento •.•.......80
Smith, Mary ···········-····.May 26, '54 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ·······-··-···75
Smith, Myrtle M ...........Nov. 15, '56 Azure ..................533 Fullerton .............. 79
Snowden, Jean E.* ... _...Dec. 29, '58 Ferndale ............193 Ferndale ·······-·····85
Snyder, Amanda G .......Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ···-·····86
Southgate, Sara L ........ .Aug. 12, '57 Yount ·······-········· 12 Napa ···-··-··-··-···80
Stewart, Henrietta ...- .. .Dec. 7, '57 Fort Crook ........575 Fall River Mills.... 84
Steele, Fannie T ...........June 26, '50 Hanford ..............279 Hanford ···-··-···-93
Steele, Rose B ................ .Dec. 6, '57 Willitts ···-······-···365 Willitts ···-··---···84
Steuer, Annie ................June 21, '56 Foothill ·······-·····564 Oakland ·······-··-···97
Stevenson, Julia M .......Aug. 17, '57 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............78
Stitt, Cora M. •·····-··-··.Aug. 21, '58 Henry S. Orme..458 Los Angeles ........87
Stroud, Laura L .............June 2, '37 Vacaville ···-·······134 Vacaville ·········-···85
Stromberg, Laura A.* ..Mar. 5, '59 Excelsior •........•.•166 San Francisco ..._74
Swain, Sarah C...............Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ..............70
Thompson, Abbie V.* ..Nov. 29, '58 Occidental .......... 22 S. San Francisco..77
Thompson, Celia ......... .Dec. 16, '33 Eden ....................133 San Leandro ........88
Tier, Sofie* ···-··············.Aug. 28, '58 South Park ........563 Los Angeles ........79
Timbrel, Alice M .... _.....Feb. 1,'57 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ......84
Tunstead, Rosa ···-··-···July 5, '57 King Solomon....260 San Francisco ...... 82
Tweedy, Mary L ...,.........Apr. 2, '55 Tlro.usand Oaks ..478 Berkeley ·······-·····79
Tyler, Agnes J .................Dec. 4, '56 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ......82
Von Schmidt, Tillie......Feb. 26, '57 Exctlsior ............166 San Francisco ......86
Waite, Florence ···-···-·.Dec. 9, '54 Se&.I. Rock ..........536 San Francisco •.....80
Ward, Jennie F .............Sept. 1, '50 Dunsmuir ···-····.297 Dunsmuir ·······-···94
Ward, Nina E ...................Dec. 27, '54 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles ·-·-··81
Watts, Ollie V ...............Sept. 29, '57 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ·······-·······90
Webster, Emma ·······-···Feb. 28, '55 Washington···-··· 20 Sacramento ····-····87
Wells, Jennie A. ... - .......Dec. 27, '54 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ···-···91
Williams, Annie F ....- ...Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco -····79
Williams, Eda M ......- ...Nov.10, '51 Park ....................449 San Francisco - ....'78
Wisewell, Evalyn ·····-···Feb. 18, '54 California .......... 1 San Francisco .•.-.85
Witham, Bess T .............Aug. 25, '51 Lancaster ..........437 Lancaster ···-··-··-·'76
Whittaker, Ada H ...........Oct. 8, '52 Bay View..._.......401 Oakland ···-·-··-··-mi
Zies, Lucy M.*·······--··-.Jan. 7, '59 Clarence
T. Smith... - .....482 Los Angeles ........68
Total Women 221

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

366

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

Deat hs-W OME N

Died
Lodge
N ame
Adam s, Elsie ·······-·······June 21, '59 Beth lehem

No.

..........453

Town
Age
San Franc isco ......77

~d~?s~~e M ...............Aug. 1, '58 Yerb a Buen a ....

403 Oakl and -·-··-·······83
Burtc haell \t
A..,r 13 '59 Richm ond ..........375 San Franc
Marg uen e ................~""
isco ......91
• ,
Calvo , Juan ita M ...........Jan. 2, '5 9 at;as hing
ton ....525 San Franc isco ...... 79
'58 L1"berty
299 Santa Clara ..........95
Chappe ll' Marg aret H ··.D
ec. 21 •
Pacif ic ·············· 136 San Franc isco ......83
Damn er, Jenn ie ............J an. 5• '59
,
Fru"t
·
·········
········3
36 Oakl and ................89
Delv es Edith J ...............Jan. 8• 59
1
1e ············ 113
Le dro
ierke~, Anna ..............Mar. 30, '59 Ed;enva
89
DMeer
:······-···········
San
anl ···-···83
dink Gertr ude ....June 19, '59 Wilsh ire
·········
-···445
Los
Merw in Gertr ude
Ange
es
···-··
Oct. 30, '58 Long Beac h ........327
oore
se r... .........June u, '59 Redlan~ - ..- ...300 Long Beac h .......•..85
M e~ 'Loui
Redla nds ···-····-···78
Mull
Char lotte E .....June 23, '59 Mend ocino............
.179 Mend ocino ···-··-···98
Murr ay, Flore nce A .....July 3, ',58 We~twood
..........501 West wood ···-·······85
O'Br ien Mary T ...........Mar. 7, 59
ore ...............289 Elsin ore ·······-·······65
Peair s, Lillia n w .....- ..JIJAy 9, '59 Elsm
Norm al Heig hts 632 San Dieg o ·······-·
··90
Pemb erton ,
.N
,
Greem
leaf
.........
.
670
Whit
tier
................73
Euelm a H. ·······-········ av. 15• 58 Hartl ey
..............
port ..............85
Rees~, Dora ..................SeJt.
:~~ Teha ma ...........-.1993 Lake
Sacra
ment
o ..........77
Robli n, Mabe l AM············D· ec.24' '58 Alca traz
..............244 Oakl and ·······- ·-···75
Smil lie Myrt le
·········
ec.
•
Alisa
l
.........
.........
Therk eisen
321
Pleas
, Arma M .....Jan. 13, '59
anton ,_.........89

w.....

g.

With draw aJs-W OME N-19 58-1 959

Gibso n Myrt le P .........Sept. 22, '58 Holle nbeck ........319 Los Angel~s ........75
Karna~ch Helen e E .... .Aug. 12, '58 Missi on ..............169 San Franc isco ......78
Maul sby, 'Eliza beth J .....Jan. 26, '59 Gold en State ....358 Los Ange les ........68

367

CHI LDR EN AT COV INA HOM E
June 30, 19.59
Boy it--3 4
•Indi cates admi ssion durin g curre nt year
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Arch inal, Steve n ···-······.Nov.12, 56 Liber al
Arts ......677 Los Ange les ........10
Barra cloug h, Willi am ..June 18, 55 R. E. Dolle
y ........616 Seal Beac h ............15
BartQ n, Arth ur ............... .Jan. 18, 58
o ..................122 Waln ut Cree k ...... 10
Clink scale , Fred ..............Jan. 6, 57 Alam
India n Wells V...691 Ridg ecres t ............12
Cox, Denn is ....................Sept. 7, 55 Fairf ax
···········-···556 Lark spur .............. 8
Cox, Wayn e ....................Aug .11,
54 Fairf ax ........... - ...556 Lark spur .........
.....10
Farm er, RichM d ............Aug. 5, 53 Temp
le ................ 14 Sono ma ................16
Faulk , Robe rt ..................Jan. 27, 56 East Gate
.........
...
290
Los Ange les ........15
Galv ery, Willi am ..........Mar. 31, 57 So. Calif
ornia ....278 Los An·geles ........14
Galv ery, Fran k ..............Mar. 31, 57 So.
Calif
ornia
....
278 Los Ange les ........11
Hicks , Lawr ence ............Jan. 18, 56 San
Buen
aven
tura
214 Vent ura ................17
Hoar d, Jame s ..................Apr. 8, 55 Morn ing
Star .... 68 Stock ton ................1,
Hoar d, Willi am ..............Apr. 8, 55 Morn
ing
Star
.... 68 Stock ton ···········-···17
Kilpa trick, Char les ........Mar. 16, 52 Ramo na
Kilpa trick, Davi d ..........Mar. 16, 52 Ramo na ..............457 Mont erey Park ....12
Kilpa trick, Paul ............Mar. 16, 52 Ramo na ..............457 Mont erey Park .... 12
............. .457 Mont erey Park ....
Laur sen, Davi d• ......... ...Mar. 25, 59 Monr
ovia ............308 Monr ovia .............. 12
5
Laur sen, Dona ld• ..........Mar. 25, 59 Monr ovia
Mann , Geor ge ..................Jan. 1, 57 Alta Vista............308 Monr ovia ·······-····· 7
Mann , Thom as ................Mar. 5, 55 Alta Vista ..........464 Sen Franc isco ...... 8
..........464 San Franc isco ......12
McCo rmick , John • ........Mar. 1, 59
scus ..........648 San Bern ardin o .. 6
Mice lli, Mich ael ..............Oct. 28, 54 Dama
Alex andri a ........531 San Franc isco ...... 15
Orth, Jerry .....,................July 23, 54 Nato ma
·········-··· 64 Folso m ..................13
Platt , Larry ....................Aug. 20,
52 San Bern ardin o..348 San Bern ardin
o .. 14
Ritch ie, Thom as• ......... .Dec. 13, 58 Euca
s ........243 Hayw ard .............. 7
Stroh , Robe rt ..................Apr. 8, 58 Selmlyptu
a
.........
.........
277
Selin
a ....................ls
Warr ick, Bruc e ..............Nov. 21, 54 Mont e
Warr ick, Davi d ..............Mar. 13, 55 Morute Vista ......655 Long Beac h ..........12
Vista
......
655
Long
Beac h .......... 9
Warr ick, Doug las .....~....Nov. 21, 54 Morute
Vista ......655 Long Beac h ..........14
Warr ick, John ................Nov. 21, 54 Moru
te
Vista
......
655
Long Beac h ..........16
Warr ick, Robe rt ............Nov. 21, 54 Mont e
Vista ......655 Long Beac h ..........10
Wyli e, Kenn eth ............June 18, 52 Univ
ersity
.........
.394 Los Ange les ........15
Yung ling, Doug las ..........Oct. 10, 53 Santa Paula
........291 Santa Paula ........14
Orth, Thom as ..................July 23, 54 Nato
ma ......... ..... 64 Folso m ..................15

Dep arted during the Year July 1, 19.58 to June 30,
*Indi cates gradu ates
Name

19.59

Boy it--1 0
Admitted

Depa rted

Age
(at the time
of departure)

Barh am, Earle ............................6-27-51 .........
...............7-10-58........................13
Barh am, Jerry ............................6-27-51.
.............. 7-10-58........................11
Carls on, How ard ........................4-31-58............
- ...................8-31-58........................ 8
Carls on, Ralp h ............................4-31-58.......
Griss ell, Willi am ···········-······-···8- 4-56.........- ...............8-31-58.......................• 6
Hens ley, Park ......... ..- ................7-24-56........................1- 4-59........................ 7
...............7- 4-58........................13
Joy, Harr y• .........:........................8-10-47
........................6-17-59 .......- ...............17
McG hie, Robe rt .......................... 7-17-57.........
McG hie, Willi am ........................7-17- ........................7- 1-58........................ 6
...............7- 1-58...................- .. 7
Osgo od, Rich ard ..........................5-25-57
59...............- .......6- 6-59........................12

368

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

Girls-21
•Indicates admission during current year
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Allison, Patricia ........... .Apr. 2, 58 Van Nuys ···-······.450 Van Nuys ..............13
Archinal, Karen ............Sept. 29, 56 Liberal Arts ......677 Los Angeles ..........13
Barton, Karen ·······-·······Jan.18, 58 Alamo ..................122 Walnut Creek ...... 7
Bennett, Mabel Jo ........Sept. 12, 54 Searchlight ........567 Long Beach ........16
Caswell, Georgia R.........Apr. 5, 57 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ···········-···12
Cox, Georgia ·······-········.Aug. 11, 54 Fairfax ................556 Larkspur ·····-·······14
Farmer, Susan ................Aug. 5, 53 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ···-·········--15
Lee, Linda ···-·················Sept. 5, 57 Eagle Rock ...- .. .422 Los Angeles ........ 16
Mann, Mary ................... .Mar. 5, 55 Alta Vista ..........464 Daly City ···-····-···14
Nielsen, Linda ................July 1, 52 Covina ···-··········.334 Covina ·········-·······16
Ostrander, Carol .......... Sept. 14, 51 Big Bear ···-·······617 Big Bear Lake ....16
Ritchie, Linda• ..............Dec.13, 59 Eucalyptus ···-···243 Hayward .............. 8
Stroh, Janita ··-············.Apr. 8, 58 Selma ..................277 Selma .................... 9
Stroh, Patricia ................Apr. 8, 58 Selma ..................277 Selma ··-··-······· '1
Stroh, Susan ....................Apr. 9, 58 Selma ..................277 Selma ···-··-···········11
Werner, Beverly ···-·······Sept. 3, 57 James A.
Foshay ·······- ···641 Los Angeles .....•..11
Werner, Diana ...•..........Sept. 3, 57 James A.
Foshay ·······-···641 Los Angeles ........13
Williams, Linda ..............May 18, 55 Trona ..................684 Trona ···-·-···········14
Williams, Sharon ..........May 18, 55 Trona ..................684 Trona ···············-···13
Williams, Shirley ......... .May 18, 55 Trona ...............•..684 Trona ···-··-······-···13
Yungling, Barbara ........Oct. 10, 53 Santa Paula ......291 Santa Paula ·····-···13

Departed durin~ the Year July 1, 1958 to June 30, 1959
Girls-10
Carlson, Elaine ............................4-12-58........................8-31-58 ........................10
Galvery, Jeannette ·······-··········-3-31-57........-·····-··-·..2- 1-59...............- .......10
Gallucci, Toni ···--··················-··.9-29-56....... -······-·····-6-20-59...............- ..- ...16
Harpster, Adrian• ·······-········-···6-28-53........................6-17-59...............- .......17
Harris, Bonnie* ···········-·············4-28-51...- .. ·········-·-···6-l 7-59........... _........... l 7
Larsen, Sandra• ..........................6-24-52...................- ...6-18-58....- .................. 18
Nielsen, Darlene ..........................7-1-52........................6-15-59........................ 10
Osgood, Nancy .............................5-25-59........................6- 6-59....... _............... ll
Osgood, Catherine ···-·················5-25-59........................6- 6-59•.........·-········-· 9
Ostrander, Dlann • ....................9-14-51................... - ...6-18-58........................19

369

HOMES STATISTICS

Number of residents as of June 30, 1959M en
Decoto Home:
Residents, July 1, 1958.......................... 139
Admitted ................................................ 33
Died and Withdrawn............................ 34
Residents, June 30, 1959........................ 138

Covina Home:

Boys
Residents, July, 1958........... -................. 39
Admitted
5
··············••································
Graduated and Withdrawn.................. 1O
Residents, June 30, 1959........................ 34

Women
214
30
23
221

Total
353
63
57
359

Girls
28
3
10
21

Total
67
8
20
55

PER CAPITA CosT

Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal year
Ending June 30; 1959-

Decoto Home:
Cost of Maintenance................................................ $545,295.23
Average number of residents..·-·····························
359
Average operating cost per month......................... .
45,441.27
Average c~st per day............................................. .
1,495.69
Average cost per resident per year........................
1,518.93
Average cost per resident per month..................... .
126.58
Average cost per resident per day......................... .
4.16
Average number of employees................................
131

Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenance................·-····························· $232,547.71
Average number of residents..·-·····························
59
Average operating cost per month. .........................
19,378.98
Average cost per day..............................................
637.12
Average cost per child per year..............................
3,941.49
Average cost per child per month............................
328.46
Average cost per child per day............................ - ..
10.80
·-····
..
·-······~·
..........
anployea
of
number
Average
36

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CO NT RIB UT ION S TO SPE CIA L

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESERVES

RES ERV ES FOR ADD ITIO NS
AND REP LAC EME NTS
EST ATE OF

DeA lton J. Bacon..............................
3,676.Si
......
Katherine C. Downen ........................ ..........................$ 3,284.97
................................
Wa lter Alexander Keith........................
3,500.00
James S. McCandless ........................ ............................ 31,124.5
............................... .
6
Eug ene G. Palmer..............................
................................ 6,548.65
John Tonningsen (Tr ust) ..................
.............................. 7,005.25
Nelson B. Van Ma tre........................
167.40
................................
Wil liam H. S. We lch. ........................
............................... 29,517.36

MIS CEL LAN EOU S

Mrs. Irene L. Edmonds........................
..............................

155.00

DEC OTO SPE CIA L RES ERV E
EST ATE OF

Robert B. Dempsey............·..................
.............................. $
Gustave Lachman ..............................
................................
Egmont Chester Rudolf ........................
............................
Elizabeth F. Stone.. ..............................
...............................
Albert Lyon Wa yne..............................
Albertus R. We bste r......................................................... .
Emil C. Wic kma n .............................. ............................
......
George A. Wo oley.............................. ..........................
............................. .

1,000.00
1,500.00
4,320.22
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
200.00

MIS CEL LAN EOU S

Hamilton Field Cha pter No. 277,
National Sojourners ..............................
....................

26.04

SCH OLA RSH IP FUN D

In Memory of Georgian Ritchie. ............
................................... $

13.50

COV INA SPE CIA L RES ERV E
EsT ATB OF

Mabel A. Bixby....................................
.............................. $ 5,130.76
Clarence M. Cra btre e........................
150.00
............................... .
Mabelle Hai gh •...................................
5,000.00
..............................
Helen Katherine Han nah ..................
................................ 5,000.00
Ethel L Mc Gra th..............................
1,000.00
......
William A. Mci ntos h (Tr ust) ............ ......................... .
1,437.49
........................... .
Madison T. Ow ens ..............................
.............................. 11,364.41
Fos ter S. Pos t Memorial Bequest......
............................... . 92,230.83
Charles W. Rausch ..............................
94.58
..............................
Osc ar Robbins ....................................
1,000.00
..............................

371

Jess
ie M.
Albert
L. SScott..........•.........................................
1,082.50
..............
Hen S. S eymour·-···························
································ 3,500.00
ry
unkler...•................................
............:............... 17,132.39
John Cunningham Tay lor..................
......
.
Lydia Louise Tha er.....
152.45
· ········•···············
Alb
y
L
···························...······
2,22
0.00
···········
J ert yon W ayn~ .................................... ......······
.... ,..•.......
1,00
0.00
ames F. W eales..•.................... :....... .
Alb
42.5
······
······
9
······
·-····
····-·
E -~r~s R..w~ster....................................
..................... .
1,00
0.00
Gmi • Wickman....................................
.......................... 2,000.00
eorge A. Wo oley....................................
....................... .
200.00
MIS CEL LAN EOU S

Ano
nymous
Charles
G. B........................................................
............... .
arth....................................... .
Ambrose & Gla
dys Bowyer Foundation ..................
..... .
California Division of Highways
··························
Design Department No 3
C San Bernardino R/W En~~~~~~~~
~--o;~:::::::::::::::::
oncepts Universal ..............................
.......... .
Clarence R. Dor sey..............................
............. :::::::::::::::::
Edison Masonic Clu b........................
................................
Ver non Finch ....................................
..........................:.... .
Glendale DeM olay Mo ther s Club
Glendale Hig h 12 Clu b..................::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Ray Heine •..................................
Edw ard & Franklin Herro.........::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Hughes Employees..............................
..............................
Newell A. Johnson.........................~......
............................
William J. McNeil................•.............
....
Louis J. Meiers. ....................................
...:..:::::::::::::::::::::::::
P. M. Assn. of Bakersfield.
Recording & Advertis
ing Ch:;;~~~~·-·j~~·········· ..···········--··
Reel Sport Club.... ~........................·.. ,
...........................
Rohr Squ are & Compass Club, Ch~-;~·V;~
~:::::::::::::::::::::
Bo C. Roos................... ........................
...............................
San ta Fe Employees' Clu b..................
..............................
Robert C. Staples..............................
............................... .
D. W. W~b...•................................
.
-·----·····--········--··

·-·-·-·-·

10.00
2.00
2,000.00
18.00
12.10
1.00
20.00
250.00
150.00
185.00
163.34
26.00
35.00
7.65
100.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
50.00
210.68
50.00
26.00
25.00
46.90

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
KNIGHTS TEMPLAR

MEMORIALS

Denise Anderson
May Beardsley
RayBengard
Mrs. J. B. Bentley
H. J. Borchers
Mrs. Fred Brock
Edward 0. Brown
Gerald Henry Brown
Elwood Chase
Mrs. William Clark
Ernest A.Coy
William Cunningham
Robert E. Ehorn
Olen R. Garrett
Mabell Geive
Emil Hahn
Frank Hartbrink
W.M.Henry
Herman Hinricks
Clinton Hutchison

373

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

372

William Knickerbocker
Ray Knowles
Walter E. Lamson
Martin C. Larsen
Dominich Lauricella
John S. MacPhee
Horst F. Moennig
Ernest Murray, Sr.
Mrs. Harriet Perry
Charles Pettingall
Cecil Quincey
A.O. Radtke
Richard Reese
Clarence B. Runkle
Ross Saxton
Clayton L. Shaw
Ray D. Snively
Ensign Barry Steed
Ernie Stinson
Hugh Sinclair Wallace

Commanderg

No.

Covina

Decato

Sacr~mento ·······································- 2............- ..........$ 10.00........................$ 10.00

V1Salia ···-·-··-··········-··········-··········-··.26-..-.................. 12.50........................ 12.50
Pasadena ..............................................31........................ 10.00........................ 10.00
tj-~'!lnt Shasta .......................................32........................ 10.00........................ 10.00

~~:::~~::~::~~::~~::~;~~~~:~::~:;:~: : : :ii:::::::: : IH

A bttier ---··············-······-······-··--61-......................

10.00........................ 10.00

S!r Pedro -·-··················-··········-···---60........................
C vary ···-··················-······-············---62.·-····-···············

5.00... -...................

AI°a~~a ··=-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1t::::::::::::::::::::::

::88:::::::::::::::::::::::: g:88
5.00

........................ 10.00

NEW HOSPITAL RESERVE
ROYAL ARCH MASONS

MISCELLANEOUS

Concorde Lodge No. 42, Nouasseur Air Base................$
E. H. Phillips & Co.•.................................•.........•.•.•••.........
Fred J. Pratt. .....................................................................

100.00
500.00
100.00

Chapter
No.
Covina
Decoto
Sacramento ···································-····· 3............•.........•.$ 5.00........................$ 5.00
Nevada ··········--····································· 6........................ 2.50........................
2.50
¥:'a~ Yalley ···················-··················-18 ....... _............... - - .
2.50
10.00.::::::::::::::::::::::
2.50...................- ..•
5.00........................
5.00........................
2.50....................... .
12.50....................... .
10.00....................... .
5.00........................ 5.00
10.00........................ 10.00
5.00........................ 5.00
5.00........................ 5.00
5.00........................ 5.00
5.00........................ 5.00
25.00........................ 25.00
7.50........................ 7.50
5.00........................ 5.00
10.00........................ 5.00
10.00........................ 10.00
10.00........................ 10.00
s G .
10.00........................ 10.00
an abnel Valley......·-··············-···100....... _............... 5.00... -········-········· 5.00

~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::igt:::::::::::::::::::::_:_ 5.00........................
tro:::::::::::::::::::: 5.00
~:gg
J

374

GRA ND LODGE OF CAL IFOR NIA

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

.......- .......
112···-··················· 5.00........
....................... . 5.00
5.00
P aden a
·
s&~athsto
·······
···-···
···-···
............... . 5.00
~ ·······-·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::117
27 ........................ 5.00........
Hun ting ton Park --·························1136
. 10.00....................... . 10.00
.......
........
........
5.00
S an F erna nd o ···--···························· 141
.......................... .
:::::::::::::::::::: 2.50 ..................·-··· 2.50
146·
·
·············
·······
····-········
ton
1!1-g
Wilm
··148.
6.00
-······-·······
Rose ville ·······-······-······························
···············-······· 6.00 .......
Hav asu ···············-······-··················-

--

Council

ROYAL AND SEL ECT MAS TER S
Decoto
Covina
N
..$ 5.00................... _...$ 5.00
~2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
12.50
2.50

DIS TRI CT OFF ICE RS ASS N.
Decoto
Covina
5.00
$
........
........
5.00 ........

8.00

EAS TER N STA R
Decoto
Covina
N
...•...................$ 10.00........................$ 10.00

1~:

~i~i~f.f:f~I~E:~~:~~ 111:=~:~~-~~=:· l;;;

Chapter

Atas cade ro ·····························-···········375
:::
Oak s ······:·::::::::::::::::::::::::4067:::::::::::::::::::::
sand
T~ou
·
·····
46
······-·-···
am
Silo
···-·-··-···········
·-····················· .....
Mel ita -··················-·
. of 1951.......... - ..-...............·
East Bay Mat rons Assn
-··-··-··········-··
Gold en Cha in Assn. ···-··-··-··················

35.00....................... .
15.00.......-······-·······
25.00........................
30.00....................... ..
5.00.......................

JOB 'S DAU GHT ERS
Covina
No.

:::::::::::' 1 ~:~t::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::................ 50.00........................
t:::::........
::::22-114
::::::······::::::
::::::
::::::
::::::
~~·:::
~~:i~;
········
···-···
········
········
Onta rio ········
............... .
Bethel

375
Decoto

-........... 10.00........
···············-·········151 ... _..............
Selm a ························
. ..... 50.00....................... .
........
256..
....
........
........
........
........
........
City
Yub a

Asse mbly

RAI NBO W FOR GIR LS
Covina
No.

Decoto

::::::::::::::::::::::::...*
::::::::::* 11.67........
::::::01::::::::::::.......
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
aj~~···-···:::::::
~~sptana
...- ........
50.00
.....
.......
1.....
···················-················-···6
.
0

5.00

•.

Fon
0···-··················· 20.00.......................
Son oma ···········-······-··········-·················6
MIS CEL LAN EOU S
Covina

Decoto

........................$
···············* 33.42
···-······-··-.......
Dorr is & Bill Alva rado....-·-···········.......
.......... 10.00........................ - .......

Mar k & Rich ard J. Beauchamp.....
5.00........................ 5.00
·····-··-······-·······-············ 10.00
Will iam J . Bel l ....·-··--··-·-····-···
... _................... - ····
·······
·····-··············..·-·-··-·-···
................ 200.00
........
Lob an H. Brew er
....
........
........
........
........
Wm. F. Broi dy Gav el Club........
................ 100.00
........
0
100.0
·····
········
········-······
......... 5.00
Jack A. Brow n & Sons-··········-··········
-......
.......
5.00
·
·······
·-·································
Will iam J. Carl isle......·-·····
······ 100.00........... - ........... 5.00
·-·····
·······
·······
·······
·············
·-·····
..
........
s
A. Bird Cros
552.................... 5.00........................
De Molay, San ta Mar ia Cha pter No.
· 28.00
---··········-··········
······-··-··-······· 10.00
·······
·······
...
i.
Mas ters Assr •.........·····-········
........................
East Bay Past Com
·······
······Club
p~
East Whi ttier
· 12.50...-................... 12.50
......·-··············-··················
Elec trica l Craf t No.of43L.........
................ 76.00....................... .
........
........
........
A.....
Club
lity
FBI Fide
···············-··········· 25.00.........................
Stainley & Carr ie Fish er.............. ·-·····
··················........ 6.75.......................
·-·····
·-·····
·······
..
..
G. & F. Elec tric.......

::::::::::::::::
~8:88:0::::::
:::::: 500.0
::::::::::
::::::::::
::::::::::..·-·····
::::::::::
·~:;::::::
}~kEH=-te~
.................. .
...
·······
·······
··-··-·
·······
ld Exp ress tsenefit Club
........ 100.00

Hera
................
··· ······ ···-·· -··-· ·-··- ······ ··········
Hoh ener Mea t Co·- -··-······-·
0....................... .
100.0
·······
··············-····
·······
J. C. Metz. .................·-····· n Club................................ 45.00........................
Mod esto Masonic Lun cheo........
.................................... 25.00........................
San Fran cisc o Squ are Club
........
······························ 10.00........................
633 Club of Ventura..·-······-··········-·
........
........
25.00
······
·······
·······
W. A Sloa n..............·-··············-······-···········
Club................ 10.00.........................
Sou ther n Pacific Squ are & Com pass
.......
··································· 50.00................
F. L. Stamey···············-······-··-·············
100.00...- ...................
··-···
·······
·······
·······
··-····
······-··-··..
n.
.......... .
E. H. Stevenso
··················-············· 5.00... - ........
Law renc e E. T.a:bor..·-························ 5.00........................
········
········
·-·····
········
·-·····
········
········
on
..
Mar ie Tho mps
--......................
·······-··············· --....
etin..·-··············-···
...... ...... ........
Vall ejo Masonic Bull
....................
........
........
........
........
........
nse
Wer
.
W.
.......
H~
....................... 41.50................
.
Whi te Shri ne - Holl.Ywood...................
.......
........
........
20.00
······
No. 80..............·-··-··-·····........ 10.00....................... .
Whi te Shri ne - Mission
........
.......
.......
.......
.......
ura..
Vent
,
Club
is
.
Wim odas
-....................... 5.00.......................
Mr. and Mrs. S. F. Wisn0D1. .. _..............

45.00
25.00
10.00
25.00

25.00
10.00

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

377

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

376

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINM ENT RESERVE
Decato
Covina
N0
25.00........................$ 25.00
i···········-······--'
Lodf!e .
5.00........................ 5.00
California ···················-·-········-······-- 2.
Western Star ···································-· 3 ··················-- 10.00........................ 10.00
15 00
··-····················-··· ·······················• 15 oo
Tehama
San Jose-::~::::::::::::_························-·\~························ 10:00::::::::::::::::::::::: 10:00

~~f~=;=~~\=:!~-~~11~~i Ji.~'.\~ ·:'.·: '. ~;i
Hawauan

---·········-····················:_iL

20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.37
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
33.75
.... 10.00
10 oo
5.00
2.50
10.00
25.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
50.00
··
-·-······-············
5.00---··················· 5.00
10.00........................
15.00--·····················
--···-··················· 5.00
10.00_......................
10.00........................
12.50........................ 12.50
5.00--··················· 5.00
5.oo_......................
2

20 00

Live Oak --····································-~ 0•·

rn:&&

18:&8

Concord -················--·--- ·········-··-120
Fidelity -············-···-·-· ·········-··--1
Alamo --···············-··· -·········--·-- 126

n:::::::::::::::::

&:88
2

~N~i:. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ili3~1=:_:_~ -:_·~- ~- ~- ~- ~- .:~ -.:~ :-~. ~!:~: : : : : : : : : : : : ~:88

5.00....................... .
Wo<?dbndge ···········-··········--·-···········136:__:.___...:..........- 10.00........................ 10.00
15.00-...................... 15.00
Pacific -·····················-··················- 139
Crockett -·-··············-··-··- ····-··-··-·-141--·----········- 5.00........................
5.00........................ ~:&&
GF~::i~ti
15.00........................
144.
Oriental -·····-··································- 14., -·-·····-·········- 5.00-...................... 5.00
~~~~v~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1so::::::::::::::::::: 5.00---···················· ~:gg

-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::143::::::::::::::::::::

Excelsior --··--··-··-··-·-···

1

1
·-··-··-166----·· -·········- l2.50---····················

Decoto
Covina
No.
Lodge
.. 5.00
Alameda -·-·-···········-················---18'1....................... . 5.00..........................
Redwood City ···················-···············168....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
25.00
Mission ···-··········-···-················-········169•..•.................... 25.00....................
15.00
Antioch -·-·-····-··--····· ···-······-175-..................... . 15.00....... -...............
.... 12.50
Petaluma ·····-·······-·-··-···- ····-·······180•....................... 12.50....................
........................ 10.00
Russian River ·-····-··-·····················-181---·······-··········· 10.00
Keith --····--···--·········-········--···-----187....................... . 10.00........................
10.00........................ 10.00
Oakland -·---···-·-·--······- ···········188-······ ·······-······· 20.00....................
Marin ··--··-··············-··-··················-191....................... . 5.00............................ 20.00
5.00
Santa Barbara ···············-····-············-192....................... .
10.00
Ferndale ·········-····-······-···············--··--193....................... . 10.00........................
Mountain View ···-····-············-·····---194...-............. ..... . 10.00........................ 10.00
Wihnington -·-··········-··········--······-----198.•.- .................. . 10.00.......................... 10.00
7.50
7.50_....................
Hartley ·····-······-------···-··-·------···----···199---······-··········· 10.00....................
.... 10.00
Confidence --······---············ -··-··-···203.-.. ··-····-·--······ 10.00........................
10.00
Stanislaus ·····-···········-----·····--·-······.206....... _.. _.......... .
.... 10.00
Rio Vista ···-··-·--·································.208-..................... 10.00....................
...•................. -. 10.00
Friendship ·········---··-··-········----···--···.210...--··········--····· 10.00
San Benito ···-----·····-··--·--········-·····..211 ....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
South San Francisco ........................212.-.................... . 10.00....... -............... 10.00
Oak Grove ·····-··-··-··-····················.215.......-··-··········· 10.00........................ 10.00
Monterey ··-·-··-············-----··--·····217 ....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
...-................... 10.00
Mosaic -------··------··----··--····-·--·-··.218.-········-··········· 10.00
7.50
Speranza ltaliana ······-···············-·····219............... - ...... . 7.50................... -... 10.00
Downey ····-··-················--··--··--····--··.220...•.................... 10.00........................
.... 10.00
Roseville ···-······································.222...- .................. . 10.00........................
12.50
Bakersfield ···--·--·---·--···········--····-·····224-...................... 12.50........................
10.00
10.00....................
.
...............
----·········.225..--...
···-············--····-·····
Brooklyn
San Mateo ·······----··---··-···--···-····---...226.-.................... . 25.00...-................... 25.00
5.00
Athens -··-·-·····--·····-----·----·····-------228-.................. . 5.00........................ 5.00
...-...................
Hills Ferry ·······-·······--······- ··----...236--·-······-··-··· 5.00
Guadalupe ····-·········-··-··············---...237-................... 5.00........................ 5.00
5.00•..-................... 5.00
Colusa -·---········--··-·········---~------240·--········--········· 10.00
...-................... 10.00
San ta Ana -·-····-·--··············--····--··....241-...................
.. 5.00
Laurel ·--····--··········--············-········.245-:.................... 5.00..........................
Fresno -·--······---·······-···-················...247....................... . 25.00._................. .. 25.00
5.00
Landmark ·····-·-.······-··-····---········-253-......_........... 5.00.-...................... 25.00
25;00._................
10.00...-................... 10.00
~df ing
Penrhyn -·-··············-····-··-·····-·--·.258--··················· 5.00.---··············-··· 5.00
25.00---·····--·······--··· 25.00
···· 10.00
~~~e~::::::::::::::::::::::::=::i:~=:::::::::::::::: 10.00.--···············
5.00........................ 5.00
10.00........................ 10.00
5.00-...................... 5.00
................:....... 5.00
5.00
·······-·······
Durant ---··············-······-··----268...·-···
.... 10.00
10.00....................
·········
·---..269-····-······
··········---······--···
Olive Branch
.... 25.00
25.00....................
··········-···
····---....272...--···
····-······--········-····
Pasadena
5.00.-..................... 5.00
5.00.-.................... .
~i::a,o -~::::=:::::::::..::::::-~t:::::::::::::::::::: 50.00....................
.... 50.00
-··············· 5.00...'.....................
Hanford -·--········-··················--··--·2'19---···
5.00
Madera ......................•.........................280........................
5.00
Mount Shasta ·····-··············-··-·---··.281-...................... 5.00........................ 10.00
....
South West-············-· ·--······--···----···· ···················· 10.00....................
San Miguel -······················-········-..285-...................... 5.00........................ 5.00
Paso Robles ........................................286....................... . 5.00...................... .. 5.00
Elsinore ···--········-··········· ............... ...289....................... . 15.00......... -········-··· 5.00
East Gate ···--··················-··-········-···290....................... . 25.00........................ 25.00
Orange Grove ....................................293 ....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
10.00................... - ... 10.00
15.00........................ 15.00
10.00.-..................... 10.00
Azusa ----·---····---··-...30G-·-·······-··-··-···

-==::::::::::=::::::=:::::Ht::::::::::::::::

~f£~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::

5~t':i.r1Yo :::=~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::jg¥:::::::::::::::::::::::

379

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Decoto
Covina
No.
Lodge
5.00
..
5.00......................
Ashlar ···················-·····························306........................ 5.00........................ 5.00
Temescal ............................................314..·-··················· 10.00........................ 10.00
Norwalk ························· -···················315 .-.............. 5.00-.................... .- 5.00
Alisal ···-················-····-·····················321 ...- .............. .
.... 10.00
Corona ·············-··························-·······324. .................. - .. - 10.00....................
N eedles ................................................326............... - ...... . 5.00........................ 5.00
25.00........................ 25.00
10.00........................ 10.00
.... 10.00
Pacific Grove ·············-··········-···········331 .......... :............. 10.00....................
10.00
Fruitvale ............................................336...... ·-··-··········· 10.00........................
10.00........................ 10.00
12.50........................ 12.50
........................ 25.00
25.00........................ 25.00
15.00........................ 15.00
10.00........................ 10.00
~~K~~~arilhi·c,-·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J~::::::::::::::::::::::: 10.00....................
.... 10.00
10.00........................ 10.00
17.50........................ 17.50
Pinole ·························-·······················353....................... . 25.00....................
.... 25.00
.
.......................
-·········356
·····························
Mill Valley
San Francisco ................................._.360••• - ....•.............. 12.50........................ 12.50
5.00........................ 5.00
Charity ···--····································-···36::Z....•..................... 25.00....................
.... 25.00
.
..
··-·367-.................
South Pasadena ··························
5.00........................ 5.00
Ocean Park ·····························-·········369....................... . 10.00....................
.... 10.00
5.00........................ 5.00
12.50........................ 12.50
Richmond ·········································--375........... _.......... . 10.00
...............-....... 10.00
Francis Drake ·························-·········376....................... . 10.00....................
.... 10.00
Artes~a ·························-··········-····-···377•....................... 10.00....................... .
15.00........................ 15.00
5.00........................ 5.00
Highland Park ·····-············-·············38::Z......................... . 10.00....................
.... 10.00
El Centro ·····-··················-··············--384........................ 10.00........................ 10.00
Dinuba ···--··················-··-:................385.......- .............. . 10.00........................ 10.00
Coalinga ..............................................387 ........................
.... 10.00
Parnassus ·········································--388........................ 10.00....................
.... 50.00
Balder ·············-··············-···············-·393............ _...... --·· 50.00....................
72.10....................... .
5.00........................ 5.00
25.00........................ 25.00
........................ 20.00
10.00....................... . 10.00
5.00....................... . 5.00
~~b~e~u~~~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:8f:::::::::::::::::::::::. 10.00
....................... .
Moneta ..............................................•.405.......................
10.00....................... . 10.00
La Mesa ···································-··-·····407...- ................... 25.00
....................... . 25.00
Honolulu •...........................................409.. ·-········.···········
10.00
Charter Rock ......................................410..............·-······· 10.00....................... . 10.00
10.00....................... .
Perris -·--·····················-···········-·········411 ...- ..................• 47.02
....................... .
Lindsay •.............................................416..·-··········-·······
25.00....................... .
5.00....................... . 5.00
San Dimas ..........................................428..................·-··· 9.00....................... . 9.00
5.00....................... . 5.00
15.00....................... . 15.00
10.00....................... . 10.00
Fairrru:>unt ..........................................435.......... ·-··········· 10.00....................... . 10.00
Standard ............................................440........................ 5.00....................... . 5..00
Coronado •...........................................441 ....................... . 5.00....................... . 5.00
Blackmer •...........................................442....................... . 25.00 ....................... .
Torrance ···················--······················-447....................... . 25.00....................... . 25.00
Mount Diab lo ....................................448...............·-······ 10.00....................... . 10.00
5.00....................... . 5.00
Park ···-···-····-···································449......·-··-······-···

Decoto
Covina
No.
Lodge
.
.......................
25.00
Van Nuys ···················-·······················4150..••... _.............. . 15.00........................ 15.00
Mount Oso ..........................................460•.......................
Argonaut ............................................461 ........................ 10.00........................ 10.00
20.00
Paul Revere ·····-········-················-·····46::Z......................... . 10.00........... -...........
.... 20.00
Libertas ····················-························466...........- ........... 20.00....................
Culver City ........................................467....................... . 20.00....... -............... 20.00
5.00........................ 9.00
Rockridge ···················-·····················468.•......................
.... 10.00
Delta ···-··-····-············-················--·471 ....................... . 10.00....................
Blythe ..................................................473..........·-······-··· 10.00....... -............... 10.00
Tenlblor ..............................................477........................ 10.00........................ 5.00
Thousand Oaks ···············-········-·····478 ....................... . 15.00........................ 15.00
Golden Rule ···-························-·········479....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
Mt. Davidson ....................................461 ....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
Bell ......................................................483 .......- .............. . 10.00........................ 10.00
Albert Pike ·······························-·······484....................... . 10.00......................... 10.00
Chowchilla ........................................485 .. ·-··················· 10.00.......................
Caledonia ............................................486....................... . 5.00........... -........... 5.00
.... 10.00
Vallejo ·-·············································487 ....... _.............. . 10.00....................-...
5.00
Patterson ···········-··-···················-······488.-..................... 5.00................... .. 7.50
Woodstock ···-································--···491....................... . 7.50......................
5.00
Atascadero ········--···-··········-··············-493....................... . 5.00........................ 10.00
Acorn ..................................................494. ............. ·-······· 10.00........................
Capital City ........................................499....................... . 25.00...................- .. .
5.00
..
Roosevelt ···-························-·············500.......................• 5.00..........................
10.00
Harbor ................................................50::Z.......................... 10.00....................
.... 10.00
Point ···············································-···503...- .................. . 10.00........................
25.00
Seaside ·············-·······························-504...-·······-·····-··· 25.00....................
15.00........................ 15.00
0
10.00........................ 10.00
.•
5.00
Sunnyvale ···············-·························511 ....................... . 5.00........................ 10.00
Cahuenga ···--··········--·························513... _...............:... 10.00........................ 15.00
....
Argonne ···················-····················---514....................... . 15.00....................
10.00
Taft ···········-····································---516....................... . 10.00............... -.......
25.00.................... .... 25.00
La Jolla -·······-··································-518.-.. ··············-··· 20.00....................
.... 20.00
Piedmont ·······················-···················521. .......................
George Washingtop. ..........................525....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
Bay City ·····-······-······················-··-···526...- .................. . 10.00........................ 10.00
Covenant ·····-··-···························-···527....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
Belvedere ·········-·······················-···--539....................... . 25.00........................ 25.00
Queen Beach ·························-·-······540•....................... 15.00....................... .
Henry Morse Stephens ·············-·····541........................ 5.00........................ 5.00
San Gabriel ···-··-··-····················--546.......- .............. . 10.00........................ 10.00
5.00
Seaport ······-··-·-····························-·--550....................... . 5.00........................ 5.00
Lakeshore -····-···························-·····551 ........................ 5.00........................
Semper Virens ·····-······--············-·--552........................ 10.00........................ 10.00
Point Firmin ·-······················-··-··-···558 ........................ 10.00........................ 10.00
East San Diego ..................................561....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
Park Boulevard ................................568........................ 20.00....................... .
S. W. Hackett ···-····-········-········----574....... _.............. . 20.00........................ 20.00
El Cajon Valley ···························-··-576....................... . 10.00........................ 10.00
Progressive ·····································--578........•............... 26.50........................ 26.50
Santa Maria ·························-·············580....................... . 5.00........................ 5.00
5.00
Security ·············-··············-······-····-581....................... . 5.00........................ 25.00
Kauai ·····-········································---589........................ 25.00........................
Compass ···-·········································590........................ 10.00......................... 10.00
Tujunga ·-·················-·············-·········592....................... . 36.00.......................
Service ···················-··············-····-·····594. ...................... . 25.00........................ 25.00
Alexander Graham Bell ·············-···595....................... . 15.00........................ 15.00
Guardian -·--··-····························-···596........................ 15.00........................ 15.00
Dimond ···-···-··-··························-··-603...........-··-······· 10.00........................ 10.00
10.00....................... .
10.00........................ 10.00

378

~e:i~n~:~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J~L::::::::::::: ::::::::

~F!:1~a:~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~L:::::::::::::: :::::
~~ lW~g..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::g~:::::::::::::::::::::::

~J~:e ·-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::g~~:::::::::::::::::::::::

~~r :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=J~t:::::::::::::::::::::

w~~~ -~==:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J~t:::::::::::::::::::::

~~~·~~~~~=~=:~~·::~~ri~~~~~-=~~=~

~rJ!r~~o~ . .::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:::::::::::::::::::::

~lr;:~--~::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::~t::::::::::::::::::::::

~~:e~Fn: :::.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::fJ::::::::::::::::::::::::

~~I:i~~m{;~-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::3~t::::::::::::::::::::::

380

PROCE EDING S OF THE

Decoto
Covina
No.
Lodge
12.50
...........
............
12.ISO.
..
The Garde ns ········-····--------- ·-·-----···-···-621......................
20.00........... ............ .
.
.......
...........
...
629
···········
····--·····
--····-···Fairvi ew ·····-··-15.00
635......·- ··········- ··· 15.00....... -............... 10.00
Rivers ide ........... .................................637
10.00........................
·--···
......
...........
...........
...........
...........
...........
des
Palisa
. 10.00........................ 10.00
Indian Rock ·····---···-··-··-·---·-···············638... _......-_..........
. 10.00-......................
..........
...........
43
·········6
·--·-----··
Alta Loma ···················-··
. 10.00.•..... -............... 10.00
..
_
........
...........
·--645
-···---····-·-----··
A. F. E. Irwin ··--··-··-·
5.00
. 5.00........................
.
...........
...........
648
·--········
Dama scus ········----···-···----·-·--·-·-...................... 10.00
10.00..
.
.
...........
...........
··650
·--·---····
La Brea ·······················-------··........... ............. 10.00
........... Baldw in Park ··---·-·--··--------···--···-·······660........... -...........
- .................. . 5.00
...
5.00
.
...........
.
-·-···661
Malta ···············------------------ ------·---............ . 10.00
...........
10.00
.
..........
...........
2
·······66
Henry Knox ······-------·------------··----·
........ 10.00
...........
...
10.00
.
.
...........
...........
Kawe ah ················--·-····--·----·--····----····665
15.00
··········
-··········
15.00--··-··
---·-·
5.00
.
San Gorgo nio ····-····-'-·················· ·-668
......
....
..•........
5.00
·
··········
·-··-····
..
John P. Jarma n •..•: .......................••••669
5.00
....
...........
_
..•....
5.00
-··-··············· 5.00.......- ........... .... 5.00
Far West ···-····-································-673...
········-···675..- .......-······-···
5.00
Modes to ---·- ······-············
..·-···················
Willo w Glen ---···· ···················-- -676____________ ··-··· 5.00
5.00
5.00........... .............
········
--·······
--680··········
-·········
··-··
7.50
Carme l --·7.50..............·-·······
·······
-········
681--······--··-·······
··········
Dos Palos ···-··10.00 -.................. . 10.00
···
····-····
8---····
·---68
··········
·········
10.00
e ···--··-·-····-··
Oildal
San Carlos --·--- ········ ·············-- ·690__________________ 10.00- ··-··-·· ········· 10.00
··-···
···········
.-..
·-···
10.00
········-·
1-..
······69
·········
-········
Indian Wells Valley
5.00........... -........... 5.00
San Loren zo Valley ..........................718.·-· ··-··-··· ···-···
5.00
5.00-- ·········· ·········
····
·-·······
19.--··
······-7
·········Estero ···············-······-·······
5.00...- .................. . 5.00
·········
--······
-720.··········Miner al King -····-·-··········-··
5.00•.•-········--····-···. 5.00
Saint John's ···-····························-······725 ____________ ....... 10.00
... _.................. 10.00
··
·-······-·
..
.......
······737
·-·---··-·
Hillsb oroug h ·······-··········--··
-................... 10.00
10.00
.
.
...........
...........
745
······-····
··--···--·
Penin sula ·····-·····---···-···
5.00
.
···········-·······
..........
_
5.00-··
...........
····749
······-···
Merce d ·····-··- -··-·-··----·---···
............ . 5.00
...........
5.00
.
.
...........
...........
756
-··--······
Clayto n Valley ··----·-·----··--······
•.·-······-······-··· 15.00
West Covin a ···-···········--·-·--·-·-·--······758..........·-··-······· 15.00
5.00
........................
5.00
····-·······760---·-··-··-······· 5.00........................ 5.00
Lakes ide ·········---········--······
.
.......
...........
..
76L
Josiah W. Roller ···-····- ····-·-·············
5.00
········ 5.00·--··················· 10.00
Tejon ---·-·· ------- ···························773·-·····-·-···
······-···
--········
10.00Waiki ki ·-··-··-···········-··········-·········774-- ·-··-······-··· 5.00...............-....... 5.00
Rollin g Hills -····- ··-····- ···············78 1---·- ··-····-

GEN ERA L APP END IX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

381

GENERAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Page
Standing Committees ............................................................................ 382
Special Committees ..................................................•........................... 385
Constitutional Boards .......................................................................... 387
Masonic Homes .................................................................................... 388
California Masonic Memorial Temple................................................ 389
Directors Masonic Clubhouses.............................................................. 389
Registration and Mileage Payments.................................................... 390
List of Constituent Lodges.. ..................................................... -·····-····· 432
Extinct Lodges ...................................................................................... 452
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization.............................. 456
List of Inspectors.................................................................................... 462
Foreign Grand Lodges.......................................................................... 465
Alphabetical List of Lodges.................................................................. 4 70
Correspondence Report Announcement.............................................. 477
Index .................. ~.......................................... ......................................... 4 78

382

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1959-1960
STANDING COMMITTEES
JURISPRUDENCE
John R. Moore (667) .....·-·························-·············-.f53 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Oscar Lawler (290) ···-···························-·····-·-800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles15
Louis C. Drapeau (633) ........................................·-·-····-·-·.500 Sunset Ave., Oak View
Wakefield Taylor (41) ........·-································-··--·-······-1270 Escobar St., Martinez
Andrew R. Schottky (99) ............·-········-········--······-···Court Qf Appeals, Sacramento 14
Leo E. Anderson (355)-·········--············---.700 General Petroleum Bldg., Los Angelesl7
William B. Neeley (743) ............................·-·········-··----H29 Virginia Ave., Glendale
Elmer P. Bromley (698) ... ·-···-······················-····-...39.f6 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5
Joseph G. Bowers (766) ..·-····-····-··············-·······255 Norit:h Hillcrest Blvd., Inglewood 1

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Leslie E. Wood (609).--·····-···························-···········--···-1808 "Q" St., Sacramento 14
Chester H. Warlow (247)_······-···-·········-·····--.1007 Security Bank Bldg., Fresno 12
Ellsworth Meyer (677).--········-····-·-·-····--1 415 Linda Ridge Rd., Pasadena
Riobard H. Chamberl-ain (521) ..·-········-····-········-····--··-Court House, Oakland 7
Arthur Paulsen (27)-----································-· ·········--·--··--·-··-·····Weavervill e
Otto Rohwer (3) ....·-····················-··········--··············--·.Ang:lo Bank Bldg., Sacramento
Edward J. Blickfeldt (535) ...............--······················---590 Hargrave St., Inglewood
Harry B. Keeling (662) ..·-··-····--····-·-·__765 S. Harvard Blvd., Les Angeles 5
Harvey E. McCarthy (139) .........---·······-··-·······125 Cambon Drive, San Francisco 27

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

383

PAY OF MEMBERS
Keith W. Schlaegel (372) ..·-·········-·-·-···-··············-·······1320 West 163nJ St., Gardena
John V. Bacigalupi (191) ......................·-········-········-·········--108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
Matthew M. Codon (42)·-······································-·-.530 Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles 5
Charles R. Ratkovioh (268) ....................·-··············--····. -....2954 Shasta Rd. Berkeley
Glen_C. Holhel't (Hl) ..- .........................................:f350 Pacific Highway, San' Diego JO
Martin R. Sorensen (714) ............·-················-··················-··.331 Linden Ave., San Bruno
Russell K. Braasch (651) .............................- ...........3633 Farm Hill Blvd., Redwood City

CHARTERS
Herbert A. Huebner (445) ............................................610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 14
Kenneth R. Ford (400) .................................. _._ ............3650 Ralston Ave., Hillsborough
Brown Zarley (573l----··-·······························································1952 Marin Berkeley 7
~ob~t ~ Smith (426) ..·-·······················-·········-··-·-··-·-····-·······-·-···.f29 Cen~er St.. Taft
. ·Silver (283) .......·-·····-··········································.5415 Redland Dr., San Diego 15
Philip B. Stone (727) ..·-··-·····-··········································-···639 E. Valencia, Burbank
Kenneth L. Hemphill (728) ........................................1360 Newport Ave., Long Beach 4
Wayne E. Burk (316) ...--················-····-···--······-········-··--..248 S. McCall Rd., Sanger
Charles C. Warren (57) ..·-············································-··-·······933 Crest Dr., Santa Rosa
Harold W. Weygandt, Jr. (592) ............................·-············-··-····Rt. 4, Box 506 Saugus
Eugene N. Driskill (117) ..................................................5678 Vista Ave .. Sacra~to 20

BY-LAWS

FINANCE

~obert C. Peyton (392) ..·-··················-········-········--···910 N. Foothill Rd., Beverly Hills

Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ..............·-····-··-··-········-····-623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Paul F. Balck (144) ···-····-··········································.18.f-t - 28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Alfred H. Nicoll (481)-··-··················---····-·-··-·····2 3370 Camino Hermoso, Los Altos
Altwill Morgan (636)-·-··-·--··-····-·--··-·--·······887.f Sunset Blvd.. Los Angeles 46
Fred M. Clark (368) ....·-······························-············.1662 San Gabriel Ave., Glendale 8
Gilbert K. Davies (286) ·············-····-····-··················· ·-··-··---------·-- Cholame
Francis A. Gates (673) ...........................................- ...........27 Lake Vista Ave., Daly City

Jess Scott (liO) .•.-·······························································-····-·-··--·.Box 416, Cloverdale
Colton B. Daveney (430) .......................................... 170 Santa Monica Ave., Menlo Park
Sanford Jackson Robertson, Jr. (769) ....................38258 North 15th St. East, Palmdale
Alden J. Fulkerson (JS) ·-··--··--··········,·················-·-···-··- ·-.3205 Poe St., San Diego
Virgil R. Shoemaker (269)--···························-··············-······--5.f28 Avenue 236 Tulare
Eugene C. Quick (404) ... _ ............._..··-··············--··-···628 N. Michigan Ave., Glendora

GRIEVANCES
Albert F. Ross (254) .. ·--······--············-·..--·-..
Box 759, Redding
Ralph E. Hoyt (268) ..·-············-··-··-·-·············---6168 Contra Costa Road, Oakland
Elmer W. Heald (384) ...·-··-··········-·······-·······-····-···-···---· Superior Court, El Centro
Albert C. Wollenberg (JH).-·-··············-···-····-·········P. 0. Box 707, San Francisco 1
Byron C. Motton (259) ..·-····-············--········-········-······-···-__p• 0. Box 507, River.side
John D. Jorgenson (346) ...........................- ...............................800 Welch Rd., Palo Alto
Jay A. Robinson (674)---·--···-·-·--·-···- --·-P• 0. Box 1270, San Pedro

CREDENTIALS
Thos. F. Mason (198) ................-·····-····-··········--··-····305 S. Ceatral Ave., Glendale 4
Don E. Berry (568) ....·-········-·····-·········-·····-··-·······-···· ·-···--..222 W. Pine St., Lodi
Emil W. Trefts (38) .. ·-·-·····-·-·-·-······-····-·-·········-·-----126 Dake Ave., Santa Cruz
Otarles E. Sones (384)----··--·-·············-··---··- ···-P· 0. Box 1180, El Centro
John A. Smi'lllt (626) ....·-··-········-····-····-··--·--··-·········-··-··.222 Sea Vale, Chula Vista
Mervin W. Tollldn (310) ...............-·-·····--···-··········--··.P• 0. Box 214, Mount Shasta
Kemieth A. Benson (217) •....•..........·-··············-······-··-········-1601 Prescott St., Monterey

CORRESPONDENCE
Newcomb Condee (614)_.............................- ................. Superior Court, Los Angeles 12
George W. Burch, Jr. (650)_·········-·······················-········.f17 S. Hill St.. Los Angeles 13
John Wullschleger (550) ..........................·-··········-·········.fS Oeveland St., San Francisco
Maurice B. Ross (35).·-·--························-················-·····-..lCKO Udal St., San Diego 6
Ralph T. Merriam (272) ..·-····················-····················---1120 E. Woodbury, Pasadena
Burt~ Meyer, Jr. (358) ...•..............................................13702 Chadron Ave., Hawthorne
Wilham R. Mace (205) ..._··-···············-··-·-·····---······--·--- .903 Hickory St., Coming

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIBS

And~ew Burke (549) ....._····-·········-·························2S Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2

Berme J. Katz (120).-..._. _______ ··-····-····-··············-···1864- 28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Lowell H. Beckendorf (-%2) ... - ...................................3939 Ortega St., San Francisco 22
William Van Ornum (374)--·····-···········--············748 Wisconsin St., San Francisco
William S. BraDllan (531) .......·-·--·-·····-·-·····-··-·········47S-47th Ave., San Francisco
Donald Arthur Wells ( 1) ···--·-··--··-····-····-··············.220 Ninth St., San Francisco 3
Perry A. Lawson (462) ···-··-····-······················-··-······-··.1978 - 46th Ave., San Francisco

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LODGE FINANCING
Herbert Hargrave, Jr. (467).____
City Hall, Room 1605, Los Angeles 12
Mark A. Green (320)--·-··--··-··-···-···-··--.....318-B S. Reno St., Los Angeles 5
Richard R. Kennedy (780).--···---··-··········-····-··-·3974 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5
Joihn T. Bond (355).---·-·--··-····-···-···-···-··-···-···637 S. Wilton PI., Los Angeles 5
William H. Adams (363)·-········-··-·······------··--··--6353 Wood Drive, Oakland 14
George D. Gavin (144) _______________________55 New Montgomery St., San Francisco
Martin Ortlieb (35)----···-·····-····-·-·-·-·-·-··-··-·--.2889 Palm St., San Diego
George W. Sturm (254) ..·-·······--·····-····-···-··--·-·---2316 California St., Redding
Arthur S. Becker (344).·-··-·········-··-·-········-·--j61-34th Ave., San Francisco 21

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
RESEARCH
0. J. Wohlgemuth (122)---·······················--···3087 Ygnacio Valley Rd., Walnut Creek
Leonel C. Panosh (574) ......................................... - .................350 Cedar St, San Diego 1
Eµgene S. Hopp (495) ...- .........................................2000 Van Ness Ave., San Franci«o
Percy E. Palmer (402) ···-·············----·--·······--······--···-·······--··--····77 - 64th PI., Long Beach 3
Forrest R. Hassell (690) ...·-···············--····························---·218 RuJ,y Ave., San Carlos
Harry G. Wilson (300) ......................................................727 E. Cypress Ave., Rediands
Robert J. Campbell (633) ······--········-------··--·----·------------------519 S. San Clemente, Ventura
Paul L. Yager (269) ..·-··-······················--··----····-···-····----·-··----···-·-····--P. 0. Box 239, Tulare
Alvie 0. Holton (625)--··································-···············2100 W. 73rd St., Los Angeles

NECROLOGY
Adam B. Moiten (346)·-····-··-·-··---··--··-··-·-17121 Wildway, Los Gatos
Ross K. Roper (360)-·-····-····-··-····-·-·······-··-··-···-··-·····-···1083 Gilbert St., Hayward
Leonard D. Babcock (447) ...·-···--···-·-·····-··-·--·-··.2012 Gramercy Ave., Torrance
Roy Schnauer (485)------·--·---·····-··-----··--·.....Box 425, Chowchilla
Robert F. Bergmann (319) ........·-··-········-·-·····-··-···1308 Edgewood Drive, Alhambra

RITUAL
Elbert W. Davis (571).----·····--··-·····-·-····-·--·-·-·······..2908 Russell St., Berkeley
Clare B. Campbell (230) ............·-········--··-··-····---··-··-··.Route 1, Box 682, Gridley
Harold N. Richards (20).·-···-····-···-···--·····--·-··-···2608 "R" St., Sacramento 16
Arthur J. Kahn (462) ..·-····-··-······--···-·--··--·····-·---····.20H Bryant St., San Francisco
Raymond G. Taylor (466) ........·--··-·-·--------···-··----···Box 887, Bakersfield
Donald G. Campbell (608) ···----···-·---·-··-····.2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino 9
W. Ben Sorrells (672).--------······-··--···--···-···-··673 No. Coast Blvd., Laguna Beach

MASONIC HISTORY
Leon 0. Whitsell (293) ..-----·-·-··---1027 S. Coumry Clu:b, Stockt:t¥14
Carl W. Brainard ( 5 7 9 ) - - - - - - - - - - - - P . 0. Box 834, Sacramento
Frank Everett (646)----·--···-··------.3284 Veteran Ave., Los Angeles 34
Kenneth H. Downs (646).·--··---··--··-·----··-·-···1528 ldlewood Road, Glendale 2
·--------..3176 Front St., San Diego 3
Horace H. Blair (6S7)._____
W. G. Brill (240)
..P. 0. Box 89, Colusa
Cuthbert Menge (487)----···-····--··-·-------14M Nebraska St., Vallejo

PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Vierling Kersey (698) ...._.
..-13132 Addison St., Van Nuys
George K. Palmer (442)....
·-·--·---..3509 Dove Court, San Diego 3
Qyde E. Crawford (330)___
____ ___p, 0. Box 843, Hilo, Hawaii
Perry Barrett (699)---·-··-----------·--387 Orlena Ave., Long Beach
..-l655 Montrose Pl., Santa Barbara
Jess Scheegog (642)_____
__ _ __2701-14th Ave., San Francisco 27
Irving A. Berliner (120)__
George Hiatt (247)
1364 Echo Ave., Premo
Lawrence Ed. Crow (510)
10228 N. Stelling Rd., Cupertino
Rolland P. Atwood (12)--·····--··-·····-··-····-·-·-·-··-1332 El Centro Ave., Napa

385

CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
Chairman: Harold C. Mudgett (629).·-·······-·-·······---122 W. 4Ist St., Los An9eles 37
Vice-Chairman: Yem W. Hendrix (448) ..·-········----75 Sun Valley Dr., Walnut Creek
Ralph E. Ellis (99) --········--·············--····-····--··---·····---·····-··········-·--·2865 Forist Lane, Merced
Robert A. Miller (57) ..·-·····-··············--·--·········-········-·············P· 0. Box 875, Santa Rosa
John M. Lee (579)----········································-P• 0. Box 3665, North Saaamento 15
GeorgL
Fisher (442) ............·-····························--··--·.3228 Browaing St, San Diego
Jesse . ell (524)·-······-······································-······-··-··-······-······--·.Boz 1, Avalon
Reynold C. MacDonald (301) ............................................8352 Gamino Sur, Cucamonga
William Z. Fairbanks (774) .................- .........................3020 Seaview Rise, Honolulu 14
Sergei N. Ivanoff (489) ........·-····-······························-······-·······915 Rose St., Oakland 11
Henning J. Lueders (20) ........·-····-····-········-·······810 Woodlake Dr., N. Saaamento 15
Andrew L. Spinas ( 168) ·······························-········-···········--S"L&pt. Schools, Redwood City
Peter M. T~p (560) ...- ..············-················-······-······-··5878 Mon.ga Ave., Oakland 11
Everett S. odd (527) ..........................................926 Glen Haven Dr., Pacific Palisades

Y{·

TAXATION
Alexander L. Croce (354) .........................................--.. 1628- l&th Ave., San PrandliCO
kames F.. Hammond (561U-----··-·-··-·-··-······--··-······-·--··1'11 Sutter St, San Franc:isco 4
obert R. York (349).·--···--·····-······-·········--····-······-··---1924 Broadway, Oakland 12

DE MOLAY
Homer E. Rathbun (368) ···················-············-··-·············743 Fainnont Ave., Glendale 3
Clare R. Nelson (294)-------····················-········-···-·······.170 West Cliff Drive, Santa Cruz
Lester G. Bruno (499)--·--·-········-·········-·-.2530 Jay St., No. 102, Sacramento 16
Roy H. Gerard (366)·-········-··········-····-··········--··········-----·1428 Thomas Ave., Fresno
Carl 0. Olsen (497) ..·-···-··--············--··-········-···---28 El Carmelo Circle, Oakland 19
William C. Gover (281) .......- ...................................._. ____.Route 1, Box 2051. Anderson
Harold S. Medo (676)-----······-········-·--·····--····-····-·--··-··889 Regent St., San Jose
William W. Dew~aw (407) .................................- .............7070 Broadway,_ Lemon Grove
Noel W. Roser ( 48) .........................................................- ..........527 N. Marcella, Rialte>
iYillard Will ( 9) ···-··--··········-··················-·········-······························-····---··---···Marysville
roy Anderson (347) ......................................................6020 Rose Arbor Ave., Richmond

COLUMBIA TEMPLE
Cecil 8. Mathews (8) ·-······-------·········--·--········--········-···-·-----.....Box 936, Saacra
Arthur E. Cliuk (8 )-···--································--··--········------····-·-··-··---..8onora
Chester M. Smith (525) .......................- ...................2 Clairview Court, San Pl'8D'ciaco 27
MarviD. 0. Winin/is ( 11.8) ·······-······-··-···········Security lat National Bank Bldg., V..m1a
Lionel Langley ( 8) ·-········-····------········-··--···--······-·····-·--··-·-··-···San Andreas
G. C. McKinley (3) ........·-·--············-·········----············-·-.Aaaesm' Ollce, Sacramento

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENT
lla Bldg., San Fr.mc:lsco 4
·-···············-····-·-·····-·-········-··.M
Paul A. Pftueger .(370) ....

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CEMETERIES

Edward H. Siems (560).·-·-·--····--··--··---- --1106 Broadway, Oaklatld 7
F,rank Harwell, Jr. (528) ..·--··-·-·-····--·----623 S. Hope St., Los Angdea 17
Ralph H. Head (352) ·-·····---·..J.'. 0. BO!X 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
John M. Gordon (202)-·-···-·······---·····-·---··-·...3 M6 Ame.bury Rd., Hollywood 27

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
M. Jay Jensen (454)·-···-···-··---·····-··--···--..c /o Olivet Memorial Parle, C.olma 25
Horace W. Rice (191) ..-·-···············--·····-··l15 Montgomery St, Sim Francisco 4
Roy Wieland (454)--··-····--·---·-···-·-·--·· ··-.192S Bryant St., San Francisco
George P. Silliman (494) .......·-··--··-·-··---·-·-4630 Edgewood Ave., Oaklasid
John H. Brooke (562) ..·-·············-·-····-·-··-·······---..61 Rockridge Ave.. Daly Ctty
Francis J. Herz (464) ..·-········-··-········-········--··-----···450 Sutter St, San Francl3c:o 8
Chester R. MacPhee (455) ..............·--··········-···69 Grand View Ave., San Francisco H
Max E. Morris (503)--·-·····-······-····-··-····-·· ··--··-----2ll-14th St., Ricbmood

COMMERCIALISM

387

Samuel E. Leddel (674) •.~-·-················-···-····························.lS Pine Ave., Long Beach 2
Harold C. Schroder (3)--·····-····-··-····-········-······---2675 Marty Way, Sacramento
Thomas Edwards (101) .....-··················-···························-·-----··-····-··--··.Albt
Frederick H. Chapman (622) ..................................4210 BdenhurSt Ave., Los Anaeles 39
Basil R. Gillett (124).·-·····--······················-·····················---·-P. 0. Box 1076, Paraclae

BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
David E. Lane (638) ........................................................... _... 1155 Oxford St., Berkeley 7
Eugene S. Hopp (495)-··-··············-···················2000 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 9
Alexandtt Horne (216)·-·····-··········-······-········---2 1l5- 29th Ave., San Francisco 16
HennlnY.l Lueders (20)-···-····-··-······-·--810 Woodlake Dr., North Saaamento 15
Robert . Burrows f(i97) ......:.............................................._____...2ll Palm Dr.. Piedmont

SCHOLARSHIPS
Samuel I. Jacobs (216).·-···········-·························-· ·---·....Milla Bldg., San Francisco
Geor~e D. GavJn ( 144) ·······················-········-··55 New Montgomery St., San Francisco
War M. Nichols (481) ...................- ...............355 Serrano Dr., Aipt. 8-B, San Francisco

Vincent P. McMurd> (453) ..............·-··----·-···-·-·100 Bush St., San Frandsc:o
Willard A. Braasch (296) •.·-·····-···-··-··-··-·····-··-·-·--965 E. Madison. El Cajon
Jack L. Blaine (461)---······-·-·····-··-········-775 Post St., Rm. 604, San Francisco 9
Harvey Harkness (506)--··-··-····--·-·---2 10 W. 7-llh St., Los Angeles H
Albert R. Bennison (382)-·············-···-··--··--408 So. Spring St, Los Angeles 13

SOJOURNERS
Chairman: William A. Cohendet (370) ..·--··-····--····-·-1557 Balboa Ave.. Burlingame
Vice.Chairman: Fred G. Doan (352) ...·-·············-13522 Ventura Blvd., Sherman Oaks
4l5 MadillOO Ave.. San Bruno
Wesdey P. Jonu (745)
P'rancis H. Gemry (716) .--···-··-·--···306 Insurance Exchange Bldg., Long Beach
Ebner E. Ross (113) .•..,....- ..·-···-··-·········--··········--···1546- HOth Ave., San Leandro
Thomas A. Carter (482) ........·-·····--·-·-·--·-·-········---994 8 S. Shiloh. Whittier
P. 0. Box 486, Blydie
Edward M. Dowos (473)---··-·----·-·-·-··--·
Ben T. Sahnon (632)---·-·-----·--- -4110 Palisades Rd., San Diego 16
ll28 E. Swift St, Fresno
Waker D. Randall (366).·--··--·
17l8 Grove St, Berkeley 9
John Richmond (541)---·-··-··
Box 517, Oildale
Louis B. Smith (773)---·-·-··--V. V. Kolombarovlc (370) ...·-····-········-···---1855 Wawona St., San Prandac:o 16
..-621 S. Pearl St., O>mpmo
Arthur Corbett (659)---------··
Daniel M. Cameron (20)-·--·-------·-··-16 tl Parkridge Rd., Sacramento

MUSIC
Hardel Mueller ( 1)---..···--··..···Austin Mo.9her (1)-··-·····-···---

-··-··-955 Portola Or., San Franc::tsoo

---1175 Johnaoa St.. Menlo Park
CJiarles J. Payne (540)-······-····--··-·--··---1221 B. Roosevelt Rd., Long Beach 7

INSURANCE
T. }'ames Carlile .(215) ........·-···--··--·-··-······-l Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Allerlton B. Ebert (489).-·--····-·-----·-·---4<> 1 California St, San Frend8c:o 4

.

CONSTITUTIONA L BOARDS
ENDOWMENT BOARD
John M. Gordon (202) ..................................................3446 Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27
Omo E. T~ler (442).--··-··········--···-··-··········-······.4817 ~tmi.Dr., San Diego 16
Lester A. rice (379) ..·-············-······································--·-··45& Saratoga St., Fillmore
Byron Coleman (453) ·--·············-·--··-··········-·-····.220 Montgomery St., San Francisco
Kermit A. Jacobson (599) .................................................. 417 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena
Horace R. LaFortune (3) --···········-·····:········-···6601 S. Land Park Dr.. Sacramento 22
Ralph S. Brokaw (346)-·····························-···-······-··3825 El Camino Real, Palo Alto
Henry G. Van Dyke (327) ...;.............................·-···---.3450 Walnut Ave., Long Beach 7
Melvin A. Pixley (584)---··············-··············-········-··.JQ E. Slauson Ave., Maywood
Charles H. Grace ~635) .....................................- ...................4210 Highland Pl.. Riverside
Paul A. Brom (33 )---················································· ·····--·Central Bldg.. Oakland 12
Harold R. DeTuncq (738)---············-············-······-··-- ·-··---217 S. ACala St., Arvin
Howard L. Rose (395)·-··-····-···················-·········-·----2285 Eat Canal Dr., Turlock
William H. Sohooler (254) ..·-····-······································-·····---.1ot5 East. Redding
Fred H. Blaochard (373) .......................................- ....... 10666 OhJo Ave,. Los Angeles 24

BOARD OF CONTROL
Reginald M. Mills (61)-..·---·········--··--······--·········1059 Market St., San Francisco 3
Edward A. Johnson (35) ·······-···-····--·--··-····--·-·············1035 Alberta Pl., San Diego 3
Irving Magnes (225) ............................................... _........,256 LaSalle Ave., Piedmont 10
Arthur Dvorin (639) ...-·······················-···-···········1030 S. Cochran Ave., Los Angeles 19
John Swan (667) ·---·-··················-··························---····-2430 Orange Ave., La Crescenta

388

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REC OG NIT ION OF FOR EIG N GR AN

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

D LODGES

Phil N Myers (430)-----··············-············-······
·--·..3000 Wes t SlxthnkStB.,lLosd AnFgeles251
·
Chester H. Warl ow (247).·-·····-········-····-····· 1007 Security
Ba
g., resno
······
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr. (2Q2) ..·-····l
·-···· -··-·· --·-t i8 S. Spring St·• Los Angees

CODE COMMISSION
William Nankervis, Jr. (215) ..·-···- ·-···- ···--· ...-8 0 Woo dland Wf!I'/, Piedmont 11
··-·
.Bank of America Bidg., San ta Rosa
Edward T. Koford (57 ) -······················-········
··--···
·J A Alameda
David P Russell (396) ..·-··-·······-·····-·· ··-···
···-·· -····· --·-2230 San ose Lon:ve., Be ch 2
.
.320 Security Bldg.,
Everett Houser (504) ......--····· ····-·· ---··- -·-····
g a
A
Leonard S. Lurie ( 216) ................................... ··--·- ··
.............495 • 32nd :ve., san Frand sco 21

TRUSTEES OF MA SON IC HO ME S
3060 -16th St., San Francisco 3
Arthur M. Warr en, Pres. (481 ) ...................
B~;2282···Terminal Anne
x, Los Angeles 54
Ralph H Head (352)---··-···············P. O.
'
san Fra"'""
__,_ 6
L Harold· Anderson (346) ...................---······-·· -···245 Market Street, Los
·
An l"""'1"
...510 We'llK. Sixth St.,
Edgw V. S~wart. Jr. (529 ) -·-········· ·--·gees -r
··· ..3000 Wes t Sixth St.. Los Angeles
Phil N. Myers (430 ) -···-··-······-····--·-····-·······
·····-·
·
Bid San F
isco 2
James Leo Halley (375)---······-······-····-············-······--·703 Flood Sg., Sa
ie
._
Alfred F Breslauer (34-.A) -·······--··············-··111 Sutter t., n Franc
ran sco -r
·
··-··--····S
p
d
Guy B Mize (36 8)- -·-·· ··-·- --··- -790
E. Green t., asa ena
·-------·
_, __ 10
2440 Mariposa St.• san F ran
Ira W. Coburn (216) ...----- ·-·--· ····-· -···-·
~o
······· ··

MA SON IC HO ME FOR TH E AG ED
Unoin City, California (formerly Decoto)
Telephone Gl2eenleaf 1-3434
Gail H. David, Superintendent

MA SON IC HO ME FOR CH ILD REN
20336 East Badillo Street
Covina, California
Telephone EDgewood 2-3138
Robert M. Henry, Superintendent

389

CA LIF OR NIA MA SO NIC ME MO
RIA L TE MP LE
BO AR D OF TRU STE ES

Edward H. Siems (560}---······...:..·-·····- ······
···--· -···-· ·--11 06 Broadway, Oakland 7
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ..----- ···-·- -··-·· ··--··
Paul A. PHuegtt (370) ................·--····-··· -····- -···62 3 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
·-··········- ······-···Mills Bldg., San Francisco
Lloyd E. Wilson (630)_·····-······--··--··
····--1111 California St., San Francisco 84
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ..· - · - - -··--··
·
__ 111 Sutter St., San
Edga r V. Stewart, Jr. (529) ..........................
isco 4
................510 Wes t 6th St., Los Franc
Angeles 14
Arthur M. Warr en (481) .........---- ---- --·-·-··.
306
0-1
6th
St.,
San Francisco 3
Keith W. Schlaegel (372 )---- --·-· ·--··
·-···- --·············1320 W. 163rd St., Gard
Guy
ena
B. Mize
(368)
········
···-····
········
········
Ira W.
········
-·······
C.OOum
·········
·········
(216) ..____ ____ ____ ____ _ ...2440 Mari·.790 E. Green St., Pasadena
posa St., San Francisco 10
John W. Davey (260) .. _ ...·-··-· ···-···
Rexford L. Hall (576) .......·-·- ···· -·-··- ······· ·····-···1290 Sutter St., San Francisco 9
---- ··-·· ····2 02 Wrig ht St., El Cajon
Alvin A. Horwege. Manager
1111 California Street
San Francisco 8

D I R E C T 0 RS

M A S0 N I C
BERKELEY

C L U BH 0 U SES

Wall ace E. York (403), Pres.......... _.........
........................... .5109 Proctor Ave. Oakland
Gordon F. Black (635), Vice-Pres .........
........................715 Darien Way , San ,Franc
Russell C. Horstmann (336), Trea s.........
isco
Carlisle E. Nielsen (541 ), Secty....- ............................................ ...560 - 57th St., Oakland
.........
......
1834
Trest
le
Glen
Rd., Oakland 11
Gene C. Otwell (705), Asst. Secty...·-······--· ······· ······· --75 9 Creston Rd., Berkeley
Paul S. Boren (551).·--···········--·······················
·-······
····-···············1947 Tiffin Rd., Oakland
Carl B. Munck (564 )--·· ·····- ····-- ··-····--·· ·-··- -·-·- -·59 40 Zinn Dr., Oakl
Jahn L. Wixon (705) ..........·-··-· ·--··· ·-···· --····
and
···-·· ·-··-· ---65 19 Knott St.,
Charles F. Dalziel (541) ...·--- ···-· ··--Cerrito
--·- -·-·- ·--- 224 0 Virginia St.,ElBerk
eley

BERKELEY CLUBHOUSE
2590 Bancroft Way , Berkeley
Mrs. Esther Mainwaring, Hostess

LOS ANGELES

Frank H. Reinsch (677), Chelrman..._.........
...........--.. 1322 N. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Clyde C. Shoemaker (556), Vice
-Chairman
C. Earle Crane (528), Sec.- Trea s.·--- ······-.........._. __ 117 W . 9th St., Los Angeles 14
A. Curtis Smith (618 )-··· -·-·- ·-··- -···· -·-··- -···-4 40 N. Palm Dr.• Beverly Hills
·--·- ·---- 211 N. Elm Dr., Beverly Hills
John A. Klarqulst (445) ......·--···········
----· ·-61 8 S. West ern Ave., Los Ange
Elvin C. Drake (677) ...........................··-··les 2
- .........
Edwin W. Wad e (504) ..........·-······················............ 1017 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
······-·
··4155 Greenbrier Rd., Long Beach 8
Marion A. Duncan (327) ........ ..........................
Herbert H. Cooper (614) ............................. ....... - ... 1505 Armando Dr., Long Beach 7
.........
....
1954 Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 25
George E. Hall (52 8). ·--- -··- ···-·--·
416 N. Bedford Dr.•
Frank Jenkins (528) ...·-·····
-······-··························-···242 S. Peck Dr., Beverly Hills
George Ku.sman (506) .........-··-···
Beverly Hills
___ ·--··-·······--·····608),l N. Beach
Wt>Od Dr.• Los Angeles 4
S. Roy Howell (662) ......·-···· -··-·· ··-··· ·-·---··-···
········.
326
N.
Crof
t
Ave
.. Los Angeles
Paul R. Nichols (662) ...·-······
·······--··-····-······-····-···743 Glenwood Rd.,
Bates Mason (373) ..................········
Glendale 2
..........·-··-····-··-··.3227 Castle Heig
hts Ave., Los Angeles

LOS ANGELES CLUBHOUSE

10886 Le Conte Ave., Los Angeles 24
Mrs. Faith C. Sheldon, Director of Activities

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

390

Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

_No 1

Repreecntativa

Milea11• Allowed

Virl Bennehoff, Master
California -··-··.. ······-··-• -··Donald A. Wells, Senior Warden
Samuel C. Shenk, Junior Warden
Harold Mueller, Grand Organist
Edward C. Lohmeyer, P.M. and Inspector
Dorsey Ewing Marsh, Past Master
Paul Cowgill, Past Master
Bruce Q. Engle, Past Master
lames Hurst, Past Master
E.mile R. Laversin, Past Master
Howard M. McKinley, Jr., Past Master
David Thomson. Past Master
Charles C. Trowbridge, Jr., Past Master
James V. Vann, Past Master
2 Ray H. Qulbell, Senior Warden ................... . 3-4.72
N
0
Western Star····················- • .... Walter R. Ray, Past Master
No. 3.... Sy Dennis, Jr .. Master.................................... .. 8:40
T eh ama - -·-··-·······-··Lloyd F. White, Senior Warden
Vernon T. Jackson, Junior Warden
George H. Olmsted, P.M. and Inspector...... 8:40
Horace R. La Fortune, Past Master
Otto Rohwer, Past Master........................... . 8.40
Harold C. Schroder, Past Master
Curtis E . Ripley, Past Master
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
N 0 5 Robert C. Lansdowne, Master.....---·-······· 3.80
Benicia -------···-····--- • ····Raymond L. Sherwood, Senior Warden
John A. Marchut, Junior Warden
Svend 0. K. Sorensen. Past Master
Carlton A. Foster, Past Master
Walter C. Roy, Past Master
_.No. 8.... Not Represented
Tuol~e - ·-····-············ N 9 Edward F. Wideman, Master_......---·····-······ 11.68
Corinthian ······-·····-··-·····- o. ····Richard G. Wright. Senior Warden
N 10 Philip B. Gerow. Master................................. . 4.54
San Jose.....---····················· 0 • ····G. Richard Arthur, Senior Warden
Frederick L. Brown, P.M. and Inspector...... 7.34
Joseph S. Greenley, Past Master
Elwood H. Austin, Past Master
lohn M. Sepulveda, Past Master
N 12 K eth v. Dorland, Senior Warden............ 3.26
0
Yount -·-········-·····-····- •
·---R~lland F. Atwood, Junior Warden
Richard W. Clark, P.M. and Inspector....... . 3.26
Robert Hamilton, Past Master
Cornelius Kernan. Past Master
William D. Nelson. Past Master
William H. Ricketts, Past Master .
N
13 W B Bratt. Ma!lter.---··-···-··········· .............. 28.36
Nevada ----·················-··& 1 .t::::N~t Represented
·
.
Temple
·········-···--N 16 George Rayner Geisendorfer, Master........ ,.. . 11.82
0
Eureka -·--····-····--,--···- •
.... Harry Dan Shoemaker, Senior Warden
Clyde Wayne Riggan, Junior Warden
Burrell Clifford Jull, P.M. and Inspector ....
Denton Orr Randall, Past Master
.
N 17 Bedors Pasdermadjlan, Master
La Parfaite Uruon ............ 0 • .... Felix Lassalle, Junior Warden
Andre L. Armand, P.M. and Inspector
Jules Ramand. Past Master
Brewster F. Ames, Past Master

No. of Lodae

Repreecntativ..

391
Milea11e Allowed

Raphael Chabaury, Past Master
Andre P. Girerd, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfantl, Past Master
Mountain Shade................No. 18.... Clarence V. Dawe, Master.............................. 40.76
Gordon E. Tucker, Past Master
San Joaquln. ...-··-···········-No. 19.... George E. Woodruff, Senior Warden.......... 7.94
Norman W. Shaw, Jr., Junior Warden
Clarence A. Wood, P.M. and Inspector...... 7.94
Washington ......................No. 20.... Dwight J. Morrow, Master............................ 8.40
Robert L. Zehl'bach, Senior Warden
Robert K. Richards. Junior Warden
Harold N. Richards, P.M. and Inspector.... 8.40
Henning J. Lueders, Past Master
Crawford J. Porterfield, Past Master
·
Hawaiian -·--··········---No. 21.. .. Roy L. Skinner, Senior Warden. ................... 338.19
Norman R. Davis, Past Master
Ellwood C. Wilder, Past Master
Occidental ........................No. 22....Theodore E. Rackerby, Master
Stanley S. Stojkovich, Senior Warden
Frederick C. Parker, Junior Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master
William E. Bouton, Past Master
Lyle E. Patton, Past Master
Robert A. W eritsoh, Past Master
Madison ............................No. 23.... Wllliam H. Brooks, Master............................ 27.76
Nafe F. Thompson, Senior Warden
Frank E. Jonas, Junior Warden
Edward Farley, P.M. and Inspector.............. 27.76
Waliter J. Wieger, Past Master
Mariposa -····-··-··..--.--No. 24.... A. W. Jones, Jr.. Master__________ ............... 29.62
H. R. Davis, Jr., Senior Warden
Daniel Kleiman, P.M. and Inspector.............. 29.62
Jas. P. McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown ·················-··.No. 25.... Anthony J. Semas. Muter.............................. 13.62
Carl Bertll Forsberg, Senior Warden
Carl J. Forsberg, Past Master
El Dorado ·-··--·····-'-····-No. 26-Robert 0 . West, Master--······ .. ··--·--··-··- 13.52
Philip E. Bottorff, Senior Warden
Owen C. Murry, Jr., Junior Warden
TrlDlty ·-····-·-············-···No. 27.... Horace S. Gould, Senior Warden.............._ 39.12
Arthur Paulsen, Past Grand Master.............. 39.12
Golden Gate......................No. 30.... Louls H. Mathesen, Master
Arthur D. Paym!ller, Junior Warden
Harry K. W!dup, P.M. and Inspector
Raymond H. Bradley, Past Master
William B. Bellamy, Past Master
Randolph M. Rosso, Past Master
William J. Taylor, Jr., Past Master
Gold HllL...... _..........- ... _No. 32....Mllton C. Eifertsen, Master·--·-··················- 11.08
Robert E. Fowler, Senior Warden
Ophir ____ ...........--....No. 33.... Flnnes Bowman, Master-----·········.. ···-... 11.94
San Diego._......................No. 35 .... James H. Leach, Master.................................. 67.70
Charles Chadrow, Senior Warden
G. Thomas Overbey, Junior Warden
Joe L. Shell, Deputy Grand Master................ 67.70
Edward A. Johnson, Past Master
Maurice B. Ross, Past Master........................ 67.70
F. E. Lawrence, Past Master
Alden J. Fulkerson, Past Master
D. A. Lobensteln, Past Master
Harold J. Cook. Past Master
George W. Elder, Past Master

392

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

Name of Lod&e

No. of Lod&e

Reprcsentativea

Mile•&• Allowed

Richard H. Elliott, Past Maste r
Robert M. McDonald, Past Master
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master
Fred 1. H. Rickon, Past Master
Fred W. Reif, Past Ma~er
Floyd 0. Manninq, Senior Ward en.............. 45.12
H0war d ............................No• 37....Georg
e S. Ward , P.M. and Inspe ctor............ 45.12
m K. Bibbins, Master............................ 7.34
Sant a C ru Z ........................N o• 38.... Willia
Harry Simerly. Senio
r Ward en
Theodore E . Mowrey, Junior Ward en
Emil W. Trefts, Past Maste r..........................
7.34
Jack Reynolds, Past Maste r
Robert Manuel Larrimer, Maste r.............-- 8.40
Sacramento ·············-······· No. 40....Rober
t Van Francis, Senior Ward en
Charles Eugene Sutfin, Junior Ward en
Hubert Fredrick Benning, Past Master
o 41 ....Ernes t C. Webb , Mute r_..............................
Marti nez ··················
N
. 3.28
······-· •
Gail Borden Cone, Senior Ward en
Charles C. Laird, Jr., Junior Ward en
Wakefield Taylo r, Past Master..........
.......... 3.28
Stephen F. Ball, Past Master
Benjamin P. Schleifer, Past Maste r
Los Angeles........................No 42 ... .Tack Kotler, Master.......................................... 56.98
·
Morton Schwartzman, Senior Ward en
Irving Zuckerman, Junior Ward en
Matthew M. Codon. Past Master.................. 56.98
Joseph 0. We!Sberg, Past Maste r
Hiram ................................No. 43.... Howard E.
Hollenbeck, Senior Ward en........ 13.82
Mount Moriah ..................No. 44.... Gunter MHoffT
mann, MSa~terW rd
Gilbert . ravis,
en1or a en
Richard C. Brown, Junior Ward en
Jack W. Leishman. P.M. and Inspector
Crescent ............................No. 45.... Gustave W.
Klotz, Master·-··-···················- 44.62
Texa s -·-···························No. 46.... Veray ne D.
Cole, P. M. and Representative 8.14
Forbestbwn ................- ...No. 50.... Ralph V. White
ley, Senior Ward en...........- 29.92
lllinoistown ···-···· ······-· ··No. 51.... John E. Sears
. P. M. and Representative...... 26.16
Suisun _ ..........-·-·- ··-·No 55....Lester M. Siebe, Mute r---- ·-·-·- ······· ···· 4.68
•
Morris J. Brown, Senior Ward en
R. Glenn Hollar, P.M. and Inspector............ 4.68
Arne Oigerud, Past Maste r
Volcano ·········-·····-·........No. 56....W. Floyd Hoop
er, Senior Ward en. .... _ ..... 11.44
Santa R
No 57 Merriwell M. Hodapp, Mast er_................... 4.86
osa ···--··· ·······- ··- •
«<,~Mv.;;J~:i~~P.rt1(1 lnspectw
4.86
Robert A. Miller, Past Master
Charles C. Warr en, Past Master.................. .. 4.86
Lee C. Shea, Past Master
I. Gregg Williams, Past Master
Howard W. Moen. Past Maste r
m H. McBride, Master...................... .. 8.40
Unlon .................-............ No• 58....Willia
Geor e A .Babb
, Senior Ward en
Lloy~ E . Bell, Junior Ward en
Otto F. Link, P.M. and Inspector................. . 8.40
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range .................... No. 59 .... Riohard P. McKe
e, Mute r-........................... 32.16
Plumas ............•...••.......-.No . 60.... 0rval A. MMyer
s.
ted dR('.,Presentative.....• 33.86
M. Bruce yers, EPlMec
. . an Inspector..........
.. 33.86

····gi:nd:ii

N,mc of Lodae

No. of Lod&e

Repreeentadveo

393

Mileage Allowed
.......- ..No. 61 .... Folger Emerson, Master
Edward J. Blanchard, Senior Ward en
Ralph W. Winters, Junior Ward en
Reginald M. Mllls, Past Master
William Garibaldi, Past Master
Lee Swaney Griswold, Past Master
Clarence A.
Natoma ···--··· ···-···· ···-···- No. 64.... Harve y D. Severin, Past Master
Treichler, Senior Ward en.......... 10.28
Amador ··--···· ······-· ·--···- No. 65 .... Duard C. Jensen
. Junior Warden.................. 11.54
Morning Star ....................No. 68.... ~n!elC~Cl~
~t ~~~\v~~d~~.................... 7.94
Enterprise --··- ·---- ..No . 70.... Ralph L. Atkin
son, Master........ ..........
Douglas D. Duncan, Senior Ward en ............ 11.68
Robert Paillex, Junior Ward en
Edwa
Liston, Past Master
Bear Moun taln.-•.•...........No. 76.... FrankrdH.H.Walla
Calav eras -·-··· ·····- ··-No . 78....Evan E. Hall, ce, Elected Representative.. 11.44
Humboldt -···- ·...- .......No. 79 .... Helge A. PalmrP.M. and Inspector.....---··· ·· J0.74
ose, Senior Warden.............. 39.72
Jack H. Trego, Past Maste r
Ione ....................................No. 80.... J. Wesle
y Sibole, P.M .. Inspector
and Representatlve..............·-·-···· ···..... ..... 11.94
Yolo ·-··-··· -······· ··--···· --No. 81....Wm. P.
n, P.M. and Representative.... 8.70
Vespe r ..............................No. 84.... FrederickWilso
Glenn
Nava l ................................No. 87.... Henry F. Tyrre Crampton, Senior Ward en 31.44
ll, Master................................ 3.30
Evere tt 0. Smith, Senior Ward en
Edwa rd L. Baehr, Junior Ward en
ohn K. Cothran, Past Master
ose~h Brouss, Past Maste r
eo B. Chambers, Past Master
Milton I. Dawson, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Maste r
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Melvin C. Nelson. Past Master
Harry E. Newcomb, Past Master
Bert C. Whiteley, Past Master
•
Bertrand Wichels, Past Master
Rose's Bar ..........................No. 89....Thom
K. Scogland, Master.......................... 13.88
North Star..........................No. 91....Leo L.asDavis
, P.M. and Representative........
St. Helena ..........................No. 93....Thom
as B. Street, Master................... ........... 47.50
6.04
Rudolph M. Rossi, Senior Ward en
Frank Ogletree, Junior Ward en
Henry Oay........................No. 95....Cecll Robert Barne
s, Master..................
Merlin W. Fincham, Senior Ward en ........ 10.90
Hornltos --·······-·········-··No. 98.... Hoba rt Bolan
d. Master.................................... 29.62
Wilso n E. Lathrop, P.M. and Inspec
tor........ 25.82
Yosemite ..........................-No. 99.... John R.
Laird, Master............................
Elmer G. Nordman, Senior Ward en .......... 25.82
Donald R. Fretz, Junior Ward en
Andrew R.
tky, Past Master.................. 8.40
Cay ................................No. 101...•Thomas J. Schot
Edwards, Master.......................... 27.40
Claude F. Herrold, Past Master
H. W. Haberkorn, Past Master
Oroville -····-· ·-·-··- ··-·No . 103.... Frank H. Dayto
n, Senior Ward en................ 26.82
L. Howard
Lexington -··-···· -····-·· ···No. 104.... Chr!s Luthy<:asagrande, P.M. and Inspector 26.82
, Master........................................ 56.98
Byron P. Rynd, Senior Ward en
Henry W. Parker, Junior Ward en
Tom R. Richardson, Past Master
Arcat a --···- ····-· ···.....No. 106_Wayn e C. Graha
m, Senior Ward
Herbert F. Doss, Junior Ward en en.............. 39.72
Sidney A. Webs ter, P.M. and Inspector...... 39.72
James E. Morton, Jr., Past Master

Llve Oak.........-

t

394
Name of Lod11e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lode;e

Repraentativa

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileq;e Allowed

Pajaro -·······-············---·No. 110.... Melvin C. Loftin, Master.............................-.
Walter C. Francis, Senior Warden
J. Willard Watts, Junior Warden
Harold F. Trafton, P.M. and Inspector........
Chico ·-········-······-···········No. 111 .... J. Edward Wahl, Junior Warden..................
Theodore Merlam, Grand Orator..................
William C. Brouillard, P.M. and Inspector..
Summit ............................No. 112.... Loren E. Hill, Master......................................
Eden ·-·····························No. 113.... Ernest D. Hutton, Master
Fred V. Ulrich, Senior Warden
Oharle L. Fine, Junior Warden
Elmer E. Ross, P.M. and Inspector
Howard L. Leard, Past Master
Concord ........................••No. 117.... Chester L. Johnson, Senior Warden..............
Eugene N. Driskill, Junior Warden
Martin C. Davis, Past Master
Fidelity ···········-···-·····-···No. 120.... Abraham Hoffman, Master
Moss E. Chase, Senior Warden
Eugene A. Blumenthal, Junior Warden
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Cyril Weeks, Past Master
Irving A. Berliner, Past Master
Reuben E. Gilbert, Past Master
Robert A. Klinger, Past Master
Harold S. Simon, Past Master
Leo J. Simon, Past Master
Alamo ............................ _No. 122.... Earl S. Schaeffer, Master._.............................
Robert H. Cook, Senior Warden
Alfred S. Adams, Junior Warden
Ralfh M. Hinds, P.M. and Inspector............
0 .. Wohlgemuth, Past Master
Joseph H. Lewis, Past Master
Sotoyome ••......................No. 123.... F. Wrede Thrall, Master·-··-·························
Walter J. Welton, Junior Warden
Table Mountain ..............No. 124.... Kenneth W. Rheingans, Senior Warden......
Osmer 0. Malian, Junior Warden
Basil R. Gillett, Past Master............................
La Fayette .....•................No. 126.... Boyd E. Vice, Master......................................
William C. Heatly, Past Master
Ralph M. Hilton. Past Master
Hel'IIlann -··········-·-·······No. 127.... Walter Herzog, Master
Walter H. Arden, Junior Warden
Albert G. Matthes, Past Master
Oscar P. Bachmann, Past Master
Alfred Floer, Past Master
William K. Haag, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
George John Muller, Past Master
Wilhelm Schumacher, Past Master
Visalia ··········-·········-·····No. 128....Emerson Westcott, Master...·---·········-·····
Duke S. Lipscomb, Senior Warden
Ira P. Pratt, Junior Warden
James B. Lawson, P.M. and Inspector..........
Marvin 0. Winnings, Past Master
Mit<lhell Lunstra, Past Master
Nicolaus -·-·········-·····-No. 129--Edward H. G. Dennett, Senior Warden........
Woodbridge ···-··············.No. 131....Howard E. Wheeler, Master..........................
Willard A. Peterson, Junior Warden
Palmer A. Wells, P.M. and Inspector............
Clyde H. Gregg, Past Master
David E. Kellar, Past Master
Ora Oyer, Past Master
Thomas L. Walker, Past Master

9.32
9.32
28.&t
28.64
28.64
11.22

8.40

1.90
1.90
5.90

30.34
30.34
5.66

35.04
35.04
11.68
9.20
9.20

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repraentative1

Mileage Allowed ·

Sincerity ..........................No. 132.... Harry C. Petzwal, Senior Warden................ 35.56
Lyal Wells, Past Master
Vacaville ......................••No. 134.... Ernest L. Burd, Master·-··-············-··············· 5.62
Louts D. Callison, Senior Warden
Walter E. King, Junior Warden
Valley ..............................No. 135....Richard E. Devol, Master.............................. 8.94
Ralph M. Foote, Assistant Grand Lecturer.. 8.94
Pacific ···-···················-····No. 136.... Henry D. Schneider, Master
Raymond H. Levy, Senior Warden
Edwin D. Shank, Junior Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Albert A. Axelrod, Past Master
Gerald S. Levin, Past Master
Samuel C. Levin, Past Master
Herbert Pothier, Past Master
William McEwen Webster, Past Master
Crockett ........................;.No. 139.... Sherman Donald West, Master
Ralph T. Spencer, Senior Warden
Harvey E. McCar't1hy, Junior Warden
Ballard White, Jr., P.M. and Inspector.......... 40.76
Arthur E. Allen, Past Master
Zina R. Callaham, Past Master
Gordon Jensen, Past Master
Frederick J. Mahr, Past Master
Charles S. McGlothlin. Past Master
gurtis .•............................No. 140.... Jess Scott, Master............................................ 7.40
rafton ···········-·····-······-No. 141 .... Hubbard Anderson, Master............................ 8.90
Franklin ..................•.......No. 143....Marvin James Ostlund, Master...................... 9.80
Charles Fredrick McDowell, Senior Warden
Ray E. Burdg, P.M. and Inspector................ 9.80
Oriental ..........................No. 144....John D. Hansen, Master
Maynard R. Watson, Senior Warden
Harold H. Hutchison, Junior Warden
Paul F. Balck, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
Frederic Ray Bowes. Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
Lawrence P. Hansen, Past Master
Ian A. Russell, Past Master
Vitruvius ···············--··No. 145.... 0rrin Buell, Master.•...·-··········-····················· 5.94
Eugene Steinbeck. Senior Warden
Abell --··············-···---No. 146.... Albert E. Thirkill, Mai>ter•...·-······················· 10.86
Fred W. Haley, Junior Warden
Elmer M. Hopper, P.M. and Inspector.......... 10.86
Eel River ........................No. 147.... Robert B. Ballinger. Senior Warden............ 37.40
Lassen ···········-·················No. 149_..Earl Campbell, Master.................................... 40.52
M. D. Covert, Senior Warden
Elmer G. Van Tassell. P.M. and Inspector.. 40.52
Rohm M. Fulton. Past Master
Frank J. Elliott, Past Master
Molino ···-···········-·····-···No. 150.... Warren T. Stannard, Junior Warden..·--····· 30.36
Lloyd A. Countryman, P.M. and Inspector.. 17.74
Wooclland ·················-··No. 156.... Perry L. Orr, Senior Warden.-.................. 8.10
Donald Plank. Sr., Junior Warden
Keystone ······················-··No. 161 .... Edwin T. Drown. Elected Representative.... 10.14
Harmony ···················-···No. 164.... Arthur I. Copeland, P.M. and
Representative ··-·······-······························· 39.22
Excelsior ·····-···················No. 166.... Stuart Fenner Domsife, Master
Alfred Douglas Maas, Senior Warden
Gino Alfred Gerbi, Junior Warden
Charles Albert Adams, Past Grand Master

396
Name of Lod1e

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OP THB
No. of Lodge

Repre1entative1

Mileace Allowed

Eugene Arthur Beber, Past Master
Ralph Edwin Flathmann, Past Master
Fred W. Knight, Past Master
Joseph C. Kohlbecher, Past Master
liarry F. Lutticken, Past Master
Walker Peddicord, Past Master
Alameda •.....•...•..............•No. 167.... Ferris Brazle, Master...................................... 3.12
Dez Brown, Senior Warden
Claude Roberts, Junior Warden
Redwood City ................No. 168.... B. Lloyd Osborne, Master............................. . 2.46
Frank D. Wentworth, Senior Warden
David Adam, Junior Warden
Mission -·········-···············No. 169.... Robert D. Lintner, Master Warden
Tohn T. Montgomery, Senior
Raymond P. Seyden, Junior Warden
Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
Frank H. Thrall, Past Master
Elk Grove ........................No. 173.... D. Darrell Davies, Senior Warden................ 8.40
Vv' aker E. Lang, J unlor Warden
Senior Warden.......... 10.80
Drytawn ···············-·-----··No. 174....Wilfred Woolheater ,Master
........................... . 5.06
Antioch ··-··-·-·-------······-No. 175.... James R. Ledbetter,
............ . 61.94
.....................
Master
Scovel,
Atwood
....
178
---··-··No.
Phoenix ······------···---Dean B. Reynolds, Senior Warden
Gene R. Alsup, Junior Warden
Ralph Linfesty, Past Master
Jack Gipson, Past Master
Mendocino ...................•..No. 179.... John D. Dearing, Jr., Senior Warden_........ 19.56
Petaluma -················ ·····No. 180.... Philip A. Talamantes, Senior Warden......... . 3.94
Walter J. Casarotti, Junior Warden
Park A. Van Bebber. Past Master
John Keller, Jr.. Past Master
John Carl Werner, Past Master
Russian River .................. No. 181....Joseph Wm. Wright. Senior Warden.......... 5.40
Gladstone Gillette, Jun!oc Warden
Arbuckle ........................_No. 182.... Sheldon E. Morris, Master.............................. 10.74
Clear Lake ...•..................No. 183.... Sam Jackson, Senior Warden........................ 5.70
Warden................ 36.00
Sierra Valley ····-···--····-N o. 184.... Arthur M. Strang. Senior Master
Donald W. Webber, Past
Claiborne ···-·······--······-··No. 185.... Arc<her R. Richardson, P.M. and
Representative ···················-·············-·······- 18.56
Evening Star ········-······-No. 186.... William Alfred Krueger, Master.................. 49.60
····--········-······· 7.34
Keith ·-··-···----······----···-No. 187.... Jack W. Ronald, Master--·····
Robert P. Chappell, Senior Warden
Oakland ··········-···········-·No. 188.... Floyd H. Vincent, Master
Willard H. Nutting, Jr., Senior Warden
Harte E. Robertson, unlor Warden
Sidney Sea, Past Master
M. L. Graves. Past Master
Northern Light ................No. 190.... Hollis W. McClelland, Master...................... 35.82
Marin ·············-···············No. 191 .... Willlam M. Vanderbilt, Master
T·homas W. KinQ_. Senior Warden
Lester H. Hicks, junior Warden
George T. Rowse, P.M. and Inspector
John V. Bacigalupi. Past Master
Horace W. Rice, Past Master
Henry E. Greer, Past Master
Arthur E. Hessel, Past Master
Santa Barbara ................No. 192.... Ray H. Paine, Master.................................... _ 47.20
James C. RichlllOllld. Senior Warden
Donald F. Marks, Senior Warden................ 38.96
....
193
·····No.
-···············-·
Ferndale

Name of Lodge

No. of Lod&e

Representatives

397
Mileage Allowed

Mountain View .............. No. 194.... James D. Marsh, Master.·-·······--·-···-·----·········· 3.42
Sam Poocini, Senior Warden
Wilson Boggiano, Junior Warden
Arno Ragghlanti, P.M. and Inspector............ 3.42
Walter L. Erichsen, Past MastetBuckeye ....................•.....No. 195.... Claude D. Meyer, Master.............................. 7.72
John Ross Hart, Jr .. Junor Warden
Hoffe Sharp, P.M. & Inspector.......... 7.72
San Simeon .................. _No. 196.... ~ilton
tis P. Hornaday, Master.............................. 34.60
No
W·l . t
. 198.... Ralph A. Smale, Senior Warden.................. 56.98
I mmg on ···-················
Jesse 0. Gayer, Junior Warden
56.98
Ah-on T. DuRant, P. M. & Inspector
56 ' 32
~fl~l~.E~-fyJ:;, ~~~i
Tack T. Lewis, Past Master
Hartley ···-·······················No. 199.... Edgar Verne Hill, Senior Warden·-··-·········· 10.00
10.00
Guido de Ghetaldi, P.M. & Inspector
Truckee
···············-·········No. 200.... ~.E.sTr~~~.~=~~-w~·;<l~~---·····:::::::::::: 32.36
C. 0. Wing, Junior Warden
J. D. Anderson, Past Master
Wayne E. Philippi, Past Master
Silveyville ......................No. 201....Robert G. Brown, Senior Warden................ 6.40
J. W. Tutt, Past Master
Pentalpha -··············-·····--No. 202.... Harvey Ryan, Master.-................................... 56.98
Leonard L. Cutshall, Senior Warden
Robert D. McLaren, Junior Warden
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr., Past Master
John M. Gordon, Past Master
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master
Confidence ...................... No. 203.... Edgar Earle Breaux, Past Master
Fong Q. Jing, Past Master
Salinas ......:.....................No. 204....~~l:nJ.JSl~~e!tc!-s{V~-;d~-;;·····--··· ..····-..··· 10.74

tl::::::············::::::::::::

Freeman Geo. Sanders, P.M. & Inspector....
.
Olivet ..............................No. 205.... Clarence A. Stromsness, Senior Warden
-·····
Stanislaus -······-·-···--~---···-·No. 206.... Judson L. McDonald• Senior Warden. -·-······
A h
na elm ··---·--·················No. 207.... ~n;Jet. s~ib~s~':u~ ~::J:i-······-····--·······
Ail. Bird Cross, P.M. & I~ector._ .................
G · bert T. Koehler, Past Master
~ V~ta d··;···············--····No. 208.... Janls D. Bradford, Master.....·-······---·········-···
g avi s -·········-·····-No. 209.... ~c:~:di· s'te'~~:i=~W~~~---·--········
Orin Compton, P.M. & Inspector..................
d
F
rlen ship ......................No. 210. ...~WhilliHam L. Hershberger, Master..................
o n aanstra, Senior Warden
en Winslow. Junior Warden
Robert L. Norton, Past Master
Lawrence A. Cam_pbell, Past Master
Frederick Eaton, Past Master
Carl H. Nelson, Past Master
Forrest Von Dorsten, Past Master
San Benito ...................... No. 21 L..ADo. W. HW!nz. Elected Representative... _.......
• Casten, P.M. & Inspector..._ _
nald
H. A. Hermansen, Past Master
South San Francisco ...... No. 212.... Joseph Scardamaglia, Master
Claude John Palmer. Senior Warden
Henry A. Kruger, Past Master
George A. Lastein, Pa.st Master
Robert J. Rasmussen, Past Master

10.74
29.56
9
.66
58.06
58.06
6.38
35.98
35.98
4.54

8.44
8.44

399

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

398

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Name of Lodge

Name of Lodge

ltepretentativu

No. of Lod11e

Mile111e Allowed

San Buenaventura .......-.No• 214..- Warren H. Eakins. Master.............................. 49.78
Charles E. Steller, Senior Warden
Henry L. Ward, Junior Warden
Oak Grove ... _......... _......No. 215 .... Lester H. Brooks, Master
Robert B. Horrisber9er, Senior Warden
Joseph L. Buzolich, junior Warden
William Nankervis, Jr., P.M. & Inspector
Wm. H. Cox. Past Master
Doric ....... :........................No. 216.... Alex Home. Master
Thomas J. Callaway, Senior Warden
James S. Rose, Junior Warden
lra W. Coburn. Past Master
Samuel I. Jacobs, Past Master
Monterey .........- .......... _No. 217... John E. Harper, Senior Warden.................. 11.52
Mosaic ............................No. 218 .... 'rhomas J. Jones, Jr., Senior Warden............ 4.54
John Needham, Junior Warden
Niles B. Bentley, Past Master
Speranza Italiana ............No. 219 .... Ulisse Col'topassi, Master
Thomas C. Ledda, Senior Warden
Vito L. Bruno. Past Masttt
P. P. Balestracci, Past Master
oseph A. Beccio, Past Mastet"
ohn lcardi, Past Master
Downey ···-·····................No. 220.... Marvin H. Bomholdt, Master.__ .................. 56.98
Eugene L. Carroll. Senior Warden
Henry P. Lawhorn. P.M. & Inapec:IDr.......... 56.98
Inyo __ ...........................No. 221....Robert W. Fisher, Junior Warden................ 54.38
Roseville ................. _.......No. 222 .... Walter C. Schremmer, Master........................ 10.14
Bakersfield ......................No. 224.... Eugene C. Oldershaw, Master........................ 41.08
James W. Borgman, Senior Warden
E.mest R. Geoble, Junior Warden
Wm. M. McKenney, P.M. & Inspector........ 41.08
Lloyd E. Myers, Past Master
Brooklyn ..........................No. 225 .... Don Davis Holm, Master
Roy Kirk, Senior Warden
Kenneth Hector Solares, Tunior Warden
Roy H. Lenthall, P.M. & lnspector
Irving Magnes. Past Master
Roy Frederick Anderson, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
San Mateo ......................No. 226.... Albert Andrew Uhlrich, Master
Walter Richard Bloss, Senior Warden
William Irwin Emmons. Junior Warden
Clarence C. Smith. P.M. & Inspector
Athens __....................- ...No. 228.... Gordon Howell, Senior Warden.................... 7.18
Robet"t P. Haussler, Past Master
Solano ...........- .......- ........No. 229.... Wllliam D. Myska, Master....................:..... 3.30
William D. Peden, Junior Warden
Clarence E. Shoaf, P.M. & Inspector............ 3.30
North Butte ....................No. 230.... Paul F. B1JJ'llngton, Junior Warden.............. 13.40
Oare B. Campbell, Assistant
Grand Lecturer............................................ 13.40
Covelo ............................No. 231....Leslie R. Dunlap, Senior Warden.................. 11.38
Janesville ........................No. 232 ... .loseph S. Roberts, Master.............................. 41.52
Percy R. Browne, Senior Warden
Stephen Van Wamet", Junior Warden
Calistoga ........................No. 233.... t;;irP.~i>aTn~~:~W1'~;;;..................... 1.00

J

William A. Stone, Junior Wardm
Hope ....... _ ........ - ...,.... _No. 234....R. A. Scolarl, Elected Representative..........
Surprise Valley ...........-No. ~35.... L. ~·Ervin. Past Master

36.70

No. of Lod11e

ltepruentativea

Mileage Allowed

to 28
Hills Ferry :.....................No. 236.... Winn I. Gidcling, Elected Representative
William S. Thompson. P.M. and lnspe~ 10'28
39:10
_.:
...
Guadal upe ....... _ .. ____ No. 237.... Earl 0. Kauffman, Senior Warden.. ___
Verbon L. Murphree, Junior Warden
Douglas GH. Martin, Past Master.................... 39.10
Th omas . Cocking, _Past Master
.Toe 0. Elliott, Past Master
Henry R. Gewe, Past Master
John Jenkins, Past Master
12.62
Col usa ..............................No. 240.... Wilmer G. Brill, Senior Warden
Santa Ana ......................No. 241.. .. George H. Rasmussen Master .................. 5806
·
John H. Siegel, Senior.Warde~···--..................
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
·
Miner E. Whitford, Past Master
Magnolia --··--···-···-No. 242.... RDonaJld W. Haag, Master.............................. 47.20
ay . Nokes, Senior Warden
.
Jo~ph C. Bidgood, Junior Warden
R. Wa~e Milton. P.M. & Inspector............ 47 20
·
E ucalyptus ....·-······-·····No. 243.... Henry J. Keim, Master
Howard W. Anderson, Senior Warden
Harold E. Redding, Junior Warden
Anthony F. Taylor, Past Master
W. Teubert Smith, Past Master
Alcatraz ····-········-········.No. 244.... Stanley P. Vasilovich, Master
Howard A. Nelson, Senior Warden
Robert 0. Bergstrom, Junior Warden
Beverley C. Sutliff, Past Master
Lowell K. Bain, Past Master
Edwin A. Clothier, Past Master
Arthur H. Gawne, Past Master
Laurel --··--...................No. 245....~~8.'E]~~1s:!i'or~;d~-----···--· .......... 26.92
Cletus V. Wells, Junior Warden
Clarence C. Hurlburt, Past Master
Pomona ......................._No. 246.... DoWilliamd.., ~-~~ence Grant, Master.......-....... 60.26
nal i.;.uward Combe, Senior Warden
Harold Magnus Christensen, Junior Warden
Jerome A. Ludden, Past Master
George A. Ritter, Past Master
Fresno ..........................:...No. 247.... ~~~E~B~~~e~~W°~;d;; ..................... 30.98
William T. Muncy, Junior Warden
Chester H. Warlow, Past Grand Master......
John L. Stewart, Jr., Past Master
George R. Hiatt, Past Master
Harry D. Watkins, Past Master
Alturas -·-..·-···--··No· 248.... Arthur L. Hughes, P.M. & Inspector......- ..Adin - - - - - N o . 250.... Aubrey C. Bieber, Junior Warden.---·~dmdark -·-..··-··---No. 253.... Andrew Hess, Senior Warden........__ ..... _
ea Ing ............................No. 254.... George W. Sturm, Senior Warden................
Walter L. Smith, Junior Warden
~~ert ~- Bryceson, P.M. & Inspector.. :.......
W~H.·S~h:l~~~~~=~t~ .......................
Dan C. McRae, Past Master

§ieelv

30.98

50.18
52.88
9.00
34.72
34.72
34 72
·

~~Pa~Ie~~1!t:'W-d'~;;-....·..-······ 32.68
Welcome ···--····-·····:...._No. 255....
J. Ralph Dawdy, P.M. & Inspector................ 32.68
.
Lodi
-············-· ................~o. 256.... Euvelle R. Enderlin, Senior Warden....·-····· 8.40
T. Glenn Wright, Past Master
Penrhyn ··-..-··-···..·-···No. 258.... Reuben ·L. Logerwell, Elected Representative 11.08

'100
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreeentativu

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Miluge Allowed

Evergreen ..........- ............No. 259 ....William H. Price, Master.............................. 62.-t<>
Gerald Brown, Senior Warden
Byron C. Morton, Grand Marshal.................. 62.40
Willard G. Babcock, P.M. & Inspector........ 62.-t<>
King Solomon's ..............No. 260.... 0harles W. Menzies, Master
Charles F. Burrows, Senior Warden
Stanley J. Breier, Junior Warden
Ulysses G. Patropulos, P.M. & Inspector
John W. Davey, Past Master
Henry E. Bennett, Past Master
Gilbert A. Benoi-t, Past Master
Thomas W. Chinn, Past Master
Albert 0. Rler, Past MasteT"
Tuscan ............................No. 261....C. Jefferson Hurtt, Elected Representative.. 11.82
Lompoc ··············-············No. 262 .... James A. King, Master..•.....·-························ 41.74
Hesperian ........................ No. 264 .... Edward J. Pryor, Senior Warden.................. 39.10
Arnold L. Nickson. Junior Warden
Henry Drashner, P.M. & Inspector.............. 39.10
DeWitt Meredith, Past Master
Frank H. Biliardi, Past Master
Donald E. Thomas, Past Master
Orland .............................. No. 265.... Arnold H. Hills, Senior Warden.................. 28.32
North East ......................No. 266.... Not Represented
Galt ..................................No. 267 .... Aleck Edward Dambacher, Master................ 8.40
Durant ............................ No. 268.... Lon M. Ganglmayer, Master
Thomas V. Adams, Senior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, P.M. & Inspector
Ralph E. Hoyt, Past Master
Charles R. Ratkovich, Past Master
Melvin L. Jory, Past Master
Oliver J. Brown, Past Master
Olive Branch ··-·············No. 269.... Wilbur D. Harrah, Jr., Master................... ... 35.18
Virgil R. Shoemaker, Senior Warden............ 35.18
Irvin M. Mulanax, Junior Warden
Paul L. Yager, Past Master
Snow Mountain ..............No. 271....Edmund A. Grosch, Elected Representative 17.20
Pasadena ·-··················-·No. 272.._William R. Van Houten. Master.................... 58.20
W. Harold Archibald, Senior Warden
T. William Neidner, Past Master
Ralph T. Merriam, Past Master
Anchor ·······················- ···No. 273.... Lynn W. Davenport, Master-..•................... 56.98
Edwin W. Chaffee, Senior Warden
Richard L. Williams, Junior Warden
George Q. Evans, P.M. & Inspector.............. 56.98
Theo. Newtson, Past Master
Arroyo ............................No. 274 .... Walter A. Baxter, Master.............................. 37.18
William A. Cardwell, Senior Warden
Truman S. Bennett, Junior Warden
Harry E. Davis, Past Master
Martin E. McCune, Past Master
Oakdale ··············-······-··No . 275.... Glen I. Hartsog, Senior Warden................ .. 9.92
Clai.rOOrn Schonttoff, P.M. & Inspector........ 9.92
Selma ···············-·············No. 277....Vernon Shirley, Senior Warden.........·-······ 32.54
Paul J. Nielsen. Past Master
Southern California........ No. 278 .... Francis T. Galvery, Master.·-·········-··········· 56.98
Collier K. Goodenough, Senior Warden
Leondrus Stamps, Junior Warden
Harold E. McComas, Past Master
John M. Askin, Past Master
'llheodore E. Brown, Past Master
William J. Cook, Past Master
Francis B. Galvery, Past Master
Karl Konig, Past Master

Name of Lodi"

No. of Lodse

Repreeentativu

401
Miluge Allowed

Adolphe R. E. Roome, Past Muter
Harold V. Spender, Past Master
Hanford ...•........•...........•.No. 279.... Cleo 0. Webb, Senior Warden................ _ 31.88
Maurice J. Andress, JunlOl' Warden

tc~.HM~~~~· [~~io~st~;~:........................

Madera ·················--······No. 280...
29.10
Mt. Shasta ......................No. 281....Charles E. Fitzmorris, Elected
Representative ··---··--···-····-· .. ······-······· 33.62
Callayom1 ........................ No. 282....
Baughman, Master............·-··················· 5.50
South West ....................No. 283.... oshua H. Sorrells, Senior Warden.............. 67.70
illlam J. Waite, Jr., Junior Warden
Ira G. Silver, Past Master............................. . 67.70
Robert H. Beetlestone, Past Master
San Miguel ...._..............•.No. 285 .... J. P. Henry_Jiillis, Senior Warden. ............: 31.74
Paso Robles ············-······No. 286 .... Chauncey W. West, Master.-....................... 32.70
Gilbert K. Davies, Senior Warden
Winnedumaih ·········-·······No. 287.... Rodney H. Montrose,
Elected Representative................................ 48.80
Wilfred W. Partridge, P.M. & Inspector... . 48.80
Maxwell ····-·········-·········No. 288.... Leland E. Wallace, P.M. & Inspector.......... 12.60
Irwin Dages, Past Master
Elsinore ·················-·····No . 289 .... Robert C. Bennett, Senior Warden............•... 63.90
Howard G. Habenicht, Past Master
East Gate ........................No. 290.... James Theodore Edkins, Master
Arthur James Hays, Senior Warden
Monte Melve! Beaman, Past Master
John Allen Crosby, Past Master
Daniel Myron Hollar, Past Master
Curtis Clyde Orrell, Past Master
Santa Paula .................... No. 291....Gustav A. B. Quick, Past Master
Los Gatos - ............ _......No. 292 .... Earl R. Haskell, Master................................. . 5.64
Mitchell L. McDonald, Senior Warden
Fred Berryman. Past Master
Orange Grove ................ No. 293.... James P. Elliott, Senior Warden.................. 59.62
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master........ 7.94
John S. Lampert, Past Master
Traver ···-·······················-No. 294....Robert N. Rouch, Master................................ 33.00
Gordon E. SC'Ollt, Senior Warden
Barry K. Berg, Junior Warden
Clare R. Nelson. Past Master
Mt. Jackson ...................•No. 295.... James A. Cunnington, Senior Warden.......... 7.86
Silver Gate ·-···-····-·······No. 296 .... Melvln C. Ketcham, Mester·-···--··-····-······ 67.70
Thomas D. Meyer, Senior Warden
Aylmer H. Keith, Tunior Warden
Fred S. Weed. P.M. & Inspector.................... 67.70
Dunsmuir ...............- .. - ..No. 297.... Robert C. Harris, Master................._........... 40.00
William A. Hughes, Senior Warden
Liberty ···················-····-No. 299.... John W. Baker, Jr., Master-...................... 4.54
Redlands ..........................No. 300.... Holly E. Rees, Jr., Senior Warden................ 63.18
Thomas E. Henderson, Junior Warden
Kenne-th Dowell, P.M. and Inspector........... . 63.18
Harry G. Wilson, Past Master
Clement F. Patton, Past Master
Hubert E. Barnes, Past Master
Ontario --·················-··•·No. 301. ... Glenn C. Mikesell, Senior Warden.............. 60.72
·
C. Everett Wood, Senior Warden
Reynold C. MacDonald, Past Muter
Santa Lucia -~··-·-·--No. 302.... George W. Ross, Senior Warden.................. 14.94
Porterville -··········-········No. 303:...Robert D. Mishler, Master---······ ···--- 37..34
Fred T. Belton, Senior Warden
WilIJam F. Braly, Junior Warden
Reedley ················-··········No. 3o+.... Joseph N. Anderson, Senior Warden........... . 33.34

{t·

402
Name of Lodie

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Azusa -····························No. 305....Charles B. Mclees, Master..................-........
Walter B. Rowe, Senior Warden
Stephen E. Skidmore, P.M. and tnsPector....
James D. Speani, Past Master '
Ashlar ..............................No. 306.... Donald D. Rozenberg, Senior Warden..........
John Stokes, Junior Warden
.
Robert W. Nicol, P.M. and Inspector..........
Santa Momca .................. No. 307.... Peter A. Pananides, Master............................
Hamilton W. Mo!llteith, Senior Warden
Albert F. Schub, Junior Warden
Harry H. Williams, Past Master
R. 0. Somers, Past Master
Monrovia ........................No. 308.... Chas. W. Sears, Master................................
Alvin W. Hahn, Senior Warden
Delano .•..........................No. 309....Willard Russell Letlow, Master....................
John James Tihomton, Senior Warden
Sission .............................. No. 310.... Mervin William Tonkin, Senior Warden....
Los Banos ........................No. 312.... Francis Evon Buck. Senior Warden............
Sidney Vernon Smith, Junior Warden
Theodore C. Conwell, Past Master
Tehachapi ......................No. 313....George Koutroulis, Master...-.......................
George Mehrwein, Senior Warden
Roy Bagley, Junior Warden
Glenn L. Burnett. Put Master
Temescal ........................No. 31-4....Ralph W. Anderson, Senior Warden............
Terence R. Ware, Junior Warden
Norwalk .......................... No. 315....William R. Houston, Senior Warden............
Price Hdlland. Junior Warden
Sanger ............................No. 316....Leo J. Green, Jr., Master·-·-·····------·····--··---Wayne E. Burk. Past Master........................
Fallbrook ........................No. 317.... Richard G. Robinson, Senior Warden..........
Emmanuel ..........•.............No. 318....Gene C. Harris, Master..........--..............
Art'hW' Lindberg, Junior Warden
F. W. George, Past Master
Hollenbeck ......................No. 319.... Ugo Rostagno, Master......."·········--··----·····--···
Carhon H. Hines, Senior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, P.M. and Inspector..................
Francis W. Peters, Past Master
Conrad E. Follendore, Past Master
South Gate ...•...•..............No. 320.... Fran.s J. Arvidson, Master---··············-·······
Clemert G. Davidson, Senior Warden
Mark A. Green. Past Master..........................
David H. Terry, Past Master
Alisal ................................No. 321.... 0len G. Hilton, Master·--··-··------·······--·--·--·
Hilton L. Haile, Senior Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Muter
Alhambra ........................No. 322.... Harold T. Fiebelkorn, Master......................
William C. Kermode, Senior Warden
Edward F. Carson, Junior Warden
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
Whittler ..........................No. 323....William D. Padgette, Master........................
Verle C. Davis, Senior Warden
C. W. Peck, Past Master
Corona ............................ No. 32-4.... Edward W. Hammock, Master........ :..... :.....
Charles E. Small, Senior Warden
Gordon F. Porter, P.M. and Inspector..........
Edward H. Rowins, Past Master
Oharles D. Morrison, Past Master
Linn G. Roberts, Past Master
Walton Talley, Past Master
David L. Warden, Past Master

58~06

58.06
62.40
62.40
56.98

58.06
38.12
-41.38
12.H
-45.60

58.06
58.06
31.98
31.98
65.60
13.68
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
3.90
56.98

58.38
58.20
58.20

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreeentative1

403
Mileage Allowed

Consuelo ..........................No. 325....Elmer L. Webb, Senior Warden.................. 65.60
Thos. W. Eckford, Past Master
Needles ......................- ..No. 326....Tohn D. Rollinson, Senior Warden................ 6-4.88
William R. Carty, Past Master
Long Beach ....................No. 327.... Edwin C. Bracht, Master................................ 56.98
James R. Armor, Senior Warden
George P. Calderwood, Junior Warden
John H. Ferguson, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
Henry G. Van Dyke, Past Master
Robert B. Hawthorne, Past Master
Redondo ..........................No. 328.... Edward J. Sharp, Senior Warden.................. 56.98
Eldon B. Morgan, Junior Werden
George Fairbrother, Past Master
Leon G. Kelly, Past Master
Wilson 0. Wade, Past Master
Vallee De France ..........No. 329.... Jules P. Des Forges, Senior Warden............ 56.98
Oharles A. Thomasset, P.M. and Inspector.. 56.98
Kilauea ............................No. 330....James Lothian, Senior Warden...................... 376.91
C. C. Tong, Past Master
Pacilk Grove ..................No. 331.. .. Leslie W. Masters, Master............................ 11.68
George Leonard Walter, Senior Warden
Daniel Bruce Turrentine, Junior Warden
Arch Balchin, P.M. and Inspector................ 11.68
Edwin Arthur Cope, Past Master
San Pedro ..........:.............No. 332 .... Harry C. Hapgood, Senior Warden.............. 56.98
Louis A. Petrasidi, Junior Warden
Alta ........................... _____No. 333.... Percival A. Goforth, Master.......................... 43.50
. Covina ............................No. 334.... T. Jess Myers, Senior Warden........................ 59.46
Wayne C. Bates, Junior Warden
Robert M. Henry, Past Master
West Gate ......................No. 335....Josh G. Rubens, Master.................................. 56.98
·
Arthur H. Ross, Senior Warden
Benjamin Butt, Junior Warden
John M. Hayden, Past Master
H. Walter Robbins, Past Master
Fruitvale ...................7 •••••No. 336 .... Herbert Charles Green, Master
·
Edward Keating Strobridge, Jr., Senior Warden
Arthur Garfield Berger, Junior Warden
Frank R. Killinger, Jr., P.M. and Inspector
Paul A. Brom, Past Master
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Robert Desimone Rhien, Past Master
Carqu!nez ........................ No. 337.... Elton L. Turner, P.M. and Representative.... . 2.82
San Jacinto ·········-···········No. 338.... Robert W. Meek, Master.............................. 67.12
J. D. Freeman, Senior Warden
Fullerton ..........................No. 339.... M. D. Vantuyl, Mastef'-............................. 58.06
H. W. Ensign, Senior Warden
W. T. Rodger, Past Master
Oxnard ............................No. 341....Rollo L. Van Slyke, Master............................ 50.72
William N. Jones, Senior Warden
·
Ronald E. Jones, Junior Warden
Donald R. Ellis, Past Master
Henry F. Flitt, Past Master
San Fernando ................No. 343....Willard L. McDowell, Master........................ 55.10
Wtlliam H. Knapp, Senior Warden
Starr King ......................No. 344 .... George G. Hawxhurst, Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, Senior Grand Warden
· Charles M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master
Art Salomon. Past Master

404
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreeentativea

405

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Daniel J. Breslauer, Past Master
Merrill N. Howe, Past Master
Bernard J. Joseph, Past Master
Ben A. Katz Past Master
Manuel Stern Past Master
Halman L. Wayne, Past Master
Brentwood ......................No. 345 .... Thomas L. Henninger, Senior Warden........
5.88
Palo Alto ·····-·················No. 346.... R. Harry Appleby, Master..............................
2.94
John C. Jorgenson, Senior Warden
John F. Roberts, Jr., Junior Warden
Edward D. Kohlstedt, Grand Chaplain........
2.94
L. Harold Anderson, Past Grand Master
Ralph S. Brokaw, Past Master
Adam B. Morten, Past Master........................ 5.64 ·
George E . .King, Past Master
McKinley ··-·····-·············No. 347.... Richard V. Heller, Master
F. Leroy Myers, Senior Warden
Troy Anderson, Junior Warden
Fred R. De Barrows, Past Master
Claus J. Anderson, Past Master
Isaac Mc Guffin, Past Master
Peter Slavazza, Past Master
San Bernardino ..............No. 348.... Francis M. Campbell, Master.....-................. 61.94
David A. Smith, Senior Warden
Victor N. Hodge, Past Master
G. Maurice Cellar, Past Master
John M. Heron, Past Master
Sequoia ····-······················No. 349.... Desmond N. Bonnington, Master
Wallace L. Etterbeek, Senior Warden
Milan T. Fell, Junior Warden
E. Herbert Phillips, Past Master
Henry S. Savage, Past Master
George C. Courreges, Past Master
Merrill D. Coy, Past Master
Frank D. Gatter, Jr., Past Master
Alfred E. Hopkins, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
Lawrence E. Muntz, Past Master
J. Walter Proctor, Past Master
Kenneth S. Thomson, Past Master
Joho T. Williams, Past Master
Palestine ·····-·-··-···········No. 351.. .. Edgar L. Deatrick, Master.............................. 56.98
John J. Oliver, Senior Warden
Roberlf: J. Blake, Past Master
P. T. Klinglesmith, Past Master
Henry E. Lestmann, Past Master
Sunset -·-·······················No. 352.... Frank B. Kreitman, Jr., Master--···-·······"·-- 56.98
William Kludjian, Senior Warden
Thomas L. Hemsley Junior Warden
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
Pinole •...••........................No. 353.... ~w';~1; "[fn:~ft:;:~"c;;"\v;;;d~~--··········· 2.36
Presidio ·····················-···-No. 354.... Harold E. Kilian, Master
Lawrence T. Elleson, Senior Warden
Nelson V. Cardinal, Junior Warden
Joseph M. Ruggiero, P.M. and Inspector
William D. Verbarg, Past Master
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master
Ro~ A. Ritchie, Past Mast.er

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

Mileage Allowed

Hollywood .•...........•........No. 355.... Milton R. Entwistle, Master...·-·····-·············
Fred E. Green, Senior Warden
James F. Davidson, Junior Warden
Leo E. Anderson, Past Grand Master..........
Samuel Steelman, P.M. and Inspector..........
John T. Bond, Past Master
A. Ralph Woodland, Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
Wallace H. Beaudry, Past Master
Erwin H. Gebhardt, Past Master
Mill Valley ....................No. 356.... Elmer H. Julian, Master
Harold G. Jones, Senior Warden
George J. Burt Junior Warden
Stanley C. Aitc:hison, Past Master
Frederick A. Penn, Past Master
Kent 0. Seymour, Past Master
Buena Park ......................No. 357.... William M. Hesse, Senior Warden...............
Ted R. Siems, P.M. and Inspector..................
L. M. Renaker, Past Master
Golden State ....•...........•.No. 358.... Cle<tus 0. Smith, Master..................................
Burton Meyer, Jr., Senior Warden.................
Winfield R. Cram, Past Master
Loyalton ···········--········-·No. 359.... Not Represented
San Francisco ................No. 360.... Milton T. Simmons, Master
Albert F. Enderlin, Senior Warden
Melvin H. Lowe, Junior Warden
Henry D. OliJ'hant, Asst. Grand Secretary
William F. Jebe, Past MaSter
Evere<tt E. Burnworth, Past Master
Robert B. McElvain, Past Master
Joseph A. Sanguinetti, Past Master
Fort Bragg ......................No. 361....Ilmar Carlson, Senior Warden......................
Harry Burrows, P.M. and Inspector..............
Charity •..........................•No. 362.... Rudy L. Nelson, Master..........·-·····················
Adam A. Scholle, Sentor Warden
William H. Scott, Past Master
Berkeley ...................T ••••.No. 363.... Henry I. Poppic, Master
Ernest S. Wise, Senior Warden
Robert D. Wootten, Junior Warden
William H. Adams, Grand Pursuivant
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
R. P. Arnold, Past Master
Oliver E. McLean, Past Master
Willits ····-······················No. 365 ....Charles Miller, Senior Warden................•..-.
Las Palmas ......................No. 366.... Robert W. Reynolds, Master........................
Charles D. Dart, Senior Warden
Hambleton F. Leas, Junior Warden
W. Price Robinson, Past Master
South Pasadena •............•No. 367.... Claud L. Moyes, Master................·-·············
Clyde E. Colvin, Senior Warden
Lawrence S. Kennan, Junior Warden
Ralph W. Cutler. P.M. and Inspector..........
Lemoyne Baskette, Past Master
George W. Roche, Past Master
Unity __.........................No. 368.... Charles H. Pitts, Senior Warden....·-············
lrvy W. Hardaway, Junior Warden
Guy B. Mize, Junior Grand Warden............•
Fred M. Clark, Past Master..........................
Homer E. Rathbun, Past Master
Ocean Park ···········--·····No. 369.... Harvey_S. Darlington, Master........................
Elmer H. Guess. Senior Wan:len
Earl E. Mcilvain Junior Warden

56.98
56.98
56.98

58.06
58.06
56.98
56.98

18.16
18.18
5.34

13.26
30.98

58.20
58.20
56.32
58.20
56.32
56.98

406
Name of Lod11e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod11e

R.epreoentatlvea

407

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileaee Allowed

Dwight C. Freeman, P.M. and Inspector...... 56.98
Theodore B. Pach, Past Master
Hamilcar Smith, Past Master
Amity ·····-·········-·····-···-No. 370....Vadja V. Kolombatovic, Master
Christo M. Pallas, Senior Warden
Donald F. Canedy, Junior Warden
Paul A. Pflueger, ASst. Grand Treasurer
William A. Cohendet, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Maurice E. Coffey, Past Master
Henry 0. Hammerioh, Past Master
John H. Lalor, Past Master
Thomas T. McHenry. Past Muter
le Progres de l'Oceanle.... No. 371.... Curtis Napela Heen, Senior Warden. ........... 338.19
John C. Simpson, Past Master
Paul S. Schwartz, Past Master
J. Dustin Smith, Past Master
Gardena ..........................No. 372.... Lawrence T. Lobach, Senior Warden.......... 56.98
Robert E. Crist, Junior Warden
Keith W. Schlaegel, Past Master......................56.98
West Los Angeles .......... No. 373.... ~gbert 0. Matthews, Master.......................... 56.98
·
Thomas Carroll, Senior Warden
Harold Hasbrouck, Junior Warden
Fred H. Blanchard, Past Master-.................. 56.98
Harry Rcbinson, Past Master
Jewel -····························No. 374.... James N. Bosse, Master
Al King, Junior Warden
William Van Omum, Past Master
Elmer James, Past Master
John H. Adams, Past Master
A. R. Engel, Past Master
S. C. Leonhaeuser, Past Master
Willard C. Schaaf, Past Master
Herbert H. Sehultz, Past Master
Richmond ........................No. 375.... James W. Halley, Master
Herbert Shoemaker, Jr., Senior Warden
W. H. Capell, Junior Warden
James Leo Halfey, Past Master
Myrt Erickson, Past Master
James H. Conner, Past Master
Emil R. Hoerchner, Past Master
R. F. Jdhnson, Past Master
Cyril J. Mac Meekin, Past Master
George H. Pape, Past Master
Ross L. Perkins, Past Master
Francis Drake ......... __ No. 376.... Charles Wilbur Tandy, Master
.floyd Kepner Dunn. Senior Warden
Arthur FTederick Blomquist, Junior Warden
Artesia -··-..............- ....No. 377_.~':~: /r~'J!il~a~~;;---······-··--· 58.06
Mizpah -·-·········---···No. 378.... Lawrenc:e J. Hall, Jr., Senior Warden............
George Ryder, Junior Warden
George W. Perkins, P.M. and Inspector......
Fillmore ..........................No. 379.... Elbert Van Orsdol, Master............................
Wm. I. Haynes, Senior Warden
0. Lewis Sundquist, Junior Warden
Lester A. Price, Past Master
Herman J. Haase, Past Master
Hqntington Beach ..........No. 380.... A. B. Van Sickle, Master......-....................
'
R. Dean Wolf, Senior Warden
Berrell R. Ries, P.M. and lnspeaor..............
A. P. Lockett, Past Master

56.98
56.98
51.38

56.98
56.98

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lod11e

R.epruentatlva

Mileage Allowed ·

Oceanside --·······-········..No. 381....Tack S. Stafford, Senior Warden.·-················ 64.20
bouglas M. Craig, Junior Warden
Kenneth C. Stanley, P.M. and lnspectDr...... 64.20
Highland Park ................ No. 382.... Scott P. Clark, Master.................................... 56.98
Charles 0. Samples, Senior Warden
George B. Corbin, Junior Warden
Floyd F. Boyer, Past Master
.
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Oros! --···············-·········No. 383.... Roger 0. Radtke, Senior Warden.................. 34.10
El Centro ........................No. 384.... Carroll C. Campbell, Mastearder.......................... 77.68
Frank G. Kamps, Senior W
n
Norbert P. Tester, P.M. and Inspector........ . 77.68
Elmer W. Heald, Past Master........................ 77.68
Charles E. Sones, Past Master...................... 77.68
E. N. D. Hatch, Past Master
Darrall G. Dixon, Past Master
H. H. Peterson, Past Master
Harry R. Sones, Past Master
Dinuba -··························No. 385.... Ralph 0. Dlbler, Senior Warden................ 33.80
Clarence L. Fraser, P.M. and lnspedlOr........ 33.80
Coalinga ·····················-···No. 387•..• Harold Charles Weeth~,
Senior WWardden. ....... 34.88
·
Frank George Mechalls. unior ar en
Frank W. Spear, Past aster
Parnassus ···-·····--···-···-No. 388....Wallace A. Fager, Master
Arthur H. Salvonl, Senior Warden
Robert C. Thomson, Junior Wardt!n
James E. Finley, P.M. and Inspector
Samuel Miller, Past Master
Carl H. Allen, Past Master
Philip R. Chapin, Past Master
Joseph C. Durhan, Past Ma&er
Palos Verdes ..................No. 389 __Edward C. Wright, Master-.......................... 56.98
Clarence R. Prouse. Senior Warden
Earl W. Bliss. Senior Grand Steward.......... 56.98
Imperial -·······-···········-Na. 390.... Dick Harlan Neff, Senior Warden................ 77.22
East Belt •...•............... t ••.••No. 391-{V1fili~~dil ~~~:;·w~~d~~··········· 12.32
Wallace H. Fiske, P.M. and Inspector.......... 12.32
West Lake ·-····-·····-······No. 392.... Wallace E. Lundwall, Master.·-···················· 56.98
Irvin J. Duhn. Senior Warden
Robert C. Peyton. Past Master...................... 56.98
Lloyd V. Smith, Past Master
Walter L. Berger, Past Master
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
John E. Hill, Past Master
Marshall F. McComb, Past Master
Vernon E. Mitchell, Past Master
J. A. Sickenberger, Past Master
Balder -························No. 393.... Harry M. Mitchelsen, Master
Clarence J. Moquin, Senior Warden
.
Le Roy W.lohnson, Past Master
Alfred Berg of, Past Master
C. Ein:ar Nelson, Past Master
Victor C. Peterson, Past Master
University ...................-.No. 394..-~=rdeCs~~~~:;_ w~~............ 56.98

Wm. T. Lisenby, Jr.. Past Master
Howard W. Greene, Jr., Past Master
Turlock ····-······················No. 395....fdh:~.~=~~:tw..;i~;;················--···
Cecil M. Bates. Junior Warden

l0.9o

408
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

409

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileage JWo.ed

Apollo ····--··················-·No. 396.... James E. Harris, Seni<X' Warden
Alfred Johnson. P.M. and Inspector
David P. Russell, Past Master
Karl D. Haberern, Past Master
Carl E. Thau, Past Master
Rising Lig·ht ··········-···-·No. 397.... Robert D. Morgan, Master............................ 56.98
Robert D. Gardner, Senior Warden
4.54
Fraternity ·-··-········-···-·No. 399.... Carrol! S. Kinney, Master..............................
Burlingame ......................No. 400.... Bemard Nelson Hallock, Master
Joseph Ray Davidson, Senior Warden
Jesse Finley Thompson, Junior Warden
James Charles Be!da, Past Master
Bay View ··--····-····-·····No. 40L.Elwin C. Lamp, Master
Royle A. Langton, Senior Warden
Charles W. Bishop, Junior Warden
Arthur H. Triggs, Past Master
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
H. M. Bankhead, Past Master
John Edward Nixon, Past Master
Brawley ...............- .........No. 402....James D. Dent, Master.................................... 76.42
B. W. Price, Senior Warden
Percy E. Palmer Past, Master
Yerba Buena _ .........._No. 403.... William L. Dunlap, Senior Warden
William G. Whelan. Junior Warden
Walter V. Durst, P.M. and Inspector
Lester S. Mc Elwain, Past Master
Glendora -·-··················No• iOt....Jack Lewis, Master.....................·-·-·.. ····-····· 58.06
C. Hubert Lankford, Senior Warden
Moneta ·····-·--·········-····No. 405 .... George Lancellotti, Master.............................. 56.98
C. Ben Chadderton, Senior Warden
Lee W. Antis, Junior Warden
Louis L. Cunningham, P.M. and Inspector.. 56.98
J. Stanley Watkfus, Past Master
Burbank ..........................No. 406.... Robert E. Nelson, Senior W Mden................ 56.98
Richard B. Carter. Junior Warden
La Mesa ···········-·············No. 407....Wm. W. Dewgaw, Master............................ 68.40
John S. Odom, Senior Warden
R. Wayne Fillpot, Junior Warden
A. Jolly_ Benbrook, Past Master
Larry H. Shaw, Past Master
Sierra Madre - ................No. 408.... Douglas C. Berkshire, Master·-··············-··· 58.06
George A. Lathrop, Senior Warden
Larry C. Lomax, Junior Warden
Honolulu ......................••No. 409.... H. Harvey Hitchcock. Senior Warden.......... 338.19
Robert Edgar, P.M. and Inspector...-·-······· 338.19
Charter Rock ·····-··--···-No. 410.... Frank Sahec, Master
Charles A. Criss, Senior Warden
James F. Gallardo, Junior Warden
R. A. Stanley, Past Master
George L. Sargent, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
Perris ··-····--··-···---No. 411....Carl H. Anderson, Senior Warden................ 63.50
Leonard M. Kirkpatrick, Jr., Junior Warden
Leonard M. Kirkpatrick, Past Master
Calexico ··---·······-No. 412..•. James H. Black, Jr., Master_····--··········- 78.42
Robert B. Poley, Junior Warden
Arlington --·----No. 414.... N. D. Stanley, Master.................................... 56.98
Richard C. Harrell, Senior Warden
Silver Trowel --·····-·····No. 415....Guy A. Bridge, Senior W•den....--......... 56.98
Gene Garf, Junior Warden
Van A. Gatewood, Past Master
Irvin Shulkin, Past Master

Name of Lod1e

No. of Lod1e

llepreaentativea

Milea1e Allowed

.......rd·········-·········
Lindsay ......................._...No. 416.... Robert L. Lanning, Master...W
Delmer A. Murdock, Senior a en
Thomas R. Sims, Junior Warden
Alva A. Daniels, P.M. and Inspector....-......
Clovis ..................- -.•No. 417.. _W. D. Darby, Senior Warden......................
No. 418 Arthur L. Holt. Master....................................
ElySl·an
.... Clifford G. Schillinger, Senior Warden
···-······················
Anthony V. Radetich, Jwiior Warden
G. Basil Bates, Past Master
Henry D. Coley, Past Master
Joseph A. Forest, Past Master
Harry E. Templeton Past Master
Guy Woolley, Past Master
No. 419 Waldo Stewart Brafford, Senior Warden....
U 1a d
....Calvin Neal Henderson, Junior Warden
p n ····-·--·-··········
J. Harry Snowden, P.M. and Inspector........
Kerman ·-··--···············No. 420.... R. H. Sherwood, Elected Representative......
No "21 Claude E. Cole, Master..-..............................
Inglewood
-·----·..····-·· ' -. ··-Edwin N. Stansel, Senior Warden
Marion B. Burke, Junior Warden
Fred R. Pardee, Past Masttt
Eagle Rock ···-···--··-···No. 422.... M. Howard Lawyer, Senior Warden............
John H. Mihld, Junior Warden
Bdwin R. Adams, Past Master
James E. Calhoun, Past Master
Thomas A. Mooney, Past Master

36.42
36.42
31.78
56.98

60.72
60.72
29.88
56.98

56.98

York -·-·-····-·..·······-No. 423....Xi~!ikJ~:j;:·s~!w;:d;;,:··--············--· 56.98
Exeter ··--·········-············No. 42L.~n: kJt~:r;. ~::W~~···············- 35.76
Norbert Mixter, Past Master
Holtville _ .................... No. 425.... Thomas Leroy Ary, Master.......................... 78.48
~~~zi~~:i~-w;:d;;,:··················· 43.58
Midway ..........................No. 426....

f::1es'I<.

Altone Coltrin, Tunior Warden
Robert A. Smith, Past Muter·-·················· 43.58
•
Chino Valley ..............._.No. 427.... ~~~w~c~es::;s.~:i~;-:w~·········- &J.72
R. Arthur Heaton, Past Masttt
San Dimas ·--··-····-···No. 428.... ~~ll~~~·s!'!ii:wa•···················· 58.06
Karl L. Parmenter Past Master
James Milne, Past Master
f~·w;:d;;··············--· 4.68
429····1.f:O~"l.wuJe~&!!
Pittsburg -··-········-·········No.
Cecil A. Smith, Junior Warden
W. Ralph Anderaon, P.M. and Inspector...... 4.68
McCloud •.•_.....................No. 430.... L. F. Tannehill, Senior Warden.................... 41.38
Phil N. Myers, Grand Master........................ 56.98
Charles S. Hogan, Grand Sword Bearer...... 8.40
Percy Ward Lindt, P.M. and l~pector........ 40.00
Colton B. Daveney, Past Master.................... 2.82
Thomas F. Sadler, Past Master
Alpha --·--····No. 431....James W. Clark, Master
Jack R. Brown, Senior Warden
F. Ray 'Thompson, Junior Warden
Anshelm S. Remell, Past Master
Edwin R. Brooks. Past Master
Hammonton ..................-No. 433.... Edward F. Davis, Senior Warden................ 12.98
Wayne A. Dalhling, P.M. and Inspector...... 11.68
.

410
Name of Locl1e

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Loc11e

Repraentatlvea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA
Milea1e Allowed

Maricopa ·-······-····-····-No. 434.... D. T. Doolittle, Senior Warden._____ 43.88
Carl E. Moore, P.M. and Inspector.............. 43.88
John E. Colbert, Past Master
Clarence A. Doolittle, Past Master
Fairmount ·····-···-···········.No. 435 .... Robert Wm. Rose, Master
Joseph Antone Teresi, Senior Warden
William Peter Olson. Junior Warden
Edward R. Pootel. Past Master
William 0. Purdy, Past Master
George R. Switzer, Past Master
Dee Larry West, Past Master
Claremont ·············-··--·No. 436....Cllnton W. Beardsley, Senior Warden........ 58.06
Lam:aster ···········-·-······-No. 437....James Earl Leithliter, Master.......... ·-··········· 49.66
Leslie Shelton, Senior Warden
William D. Knight, Junior Grand Deacon.... 49.66
James E. Bacon, P.M. and lnspecroc............ 49.66
A. C. Cobb, Past Master
John C. Sinn, Past Master
Acacia ···········-··········-·····No. 438....Willlam 0. Garbe, Junior Warden.............•
Tyrtan ••.....................•....No. 439.... NonnanJ. Zwinge, Junior Warden.........-..... 56.98
8.10
Delbert . Luck, P.M. and Inspector............ 8.10
Stanley Mortensen, Past Master
Gilbert Paul Elliott, Past Master
Fred Hubbard, Past Master
Standard ···-······-········No. 44CL..Allen S . Gladding, Master
Leland D. C.OWan, Senior Warden
Cecil Jackson, Junior Warden
William N. Darroch, Past Master
Coronado ········-·······-··-·No. 441....W. W. Eddinqton, Senior Warden............ 67.70
Clarence T. O'Brien, Junior Warden
Glenn C. Holbert, Past Muter...................... 67.70
Donald W. Stubbs, Past Master
Gerald Dennis, Past Master
Edgar Shaw, Past Master
Blackmer ......................-No. 442.... Henry M. Kirkland, Master....·-··················· 67.70
. Harold L. Jensen, Jr., Senior Warden
George A. Gray, Junior Warden
Chas. J. Savage, P.M. and Inspector............ 67.70
George W. Fisher, Past Master
Omo E. Tyler, Past Master
Frank R. Porath, Past Master
Schofield -··--·-····-········No. +u.._Gerald C. Seaman, Senior Warden·-· ······-·· 338.19
Og_den D. Pinkerton. Junior Grand Steward 338.19
.
Robert C. Kong, Past Master
Charles A. Battige, Past Master
Carpenter la ·····-··········_No. 444....G. Frederick Risdon, Senior Warden ._.._ 48.24
Gerald E. Hatton, Past Master
Wilshire --·········· ····-No. 445.... William E. Irish, Master......- - - - · · - - 56.98
Henry E. Mortimer, Senior Warden
Frederic E. Clark, P.M. and Inspector._____ 56.98
Herbert A. Huebner, Put Master.....·-·····-·- 56.98
!jPuente -·--······-·····-·No. 446.... Lloyd Andrew Zettervall, Senior Warden... . 58.86
: . C>rrance --··········· ··-··No. 447.... George C. Powell, Junior Warden....•·-··-- 56.98
·
Leonard D. Babcock. Past Master
Mt. Dlablo ---···········-·.No. 448.. _Paul Kennedy, Master...·-·-····----· ···-···-- 2.10
W. Edmund Brown, Junior Warden
·
Vern W. Hendrix. Past Mum
Park ·-·-·--··--··-······No• 449.... George R. Gabriel, Master
Kennet!h H. Kerns, Junior Warden
Reginald Duden, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Robert M. Montgomery, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lod1e

Repraentativea

411
Mileage Allowed

450 George W. Currier, Master............................ 56.98
V a n Nuys
· ····················-No.
····Theodore A. Gryde, SeniOI" Warden
Paul A. Wynne, Junior Warden
Harold S. Morrison, P.M. and Inspector...... 56.98
Ralph W. Pettes, Past Master
Melvin S. Larson, Master.............................. 56.98
Mont ebello ·········-·········..No. 451 .... Albert
J. True, Senior Warden
Leonard Rasmussen, Junior Warden
Frank L. Sutliff, P.M. and Inspeaor............ 56.98
M. L. Lamb, Past Master
452 Ross H. Rittgers, Master................................ 58.20
Sa n Pa squa I ····················No•
····Raymond C. Kettle, Sent« Warden
Carl A. Bergfalk, Junior Warden
Gilbert G. Pfeil, Past Master
Ralph B. Thomas, Past Master
Donald G. White, Past Master
Bethlehem ......................••No. 453....Ernest C. Garrettp, MaMsteastr
Byron Co1eman. ast
er
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
Walter A. Rohde, Past Master
Crocker .......................... _No. 454.... Russe11 MonrGioe Bsbass, SJenluniac WWardrden
Leslie 0 scar n erg,
or a en
M. Jay Jensen Past Master
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West ..................No. 455.... Harrlson GriffithDs, Sedsntor WJuniardeWn d
Burtis Graham av! on,
or ar en
George Robert Brockmann, Past Master
Adolph Philip Bilay, Past Master
Earle Bancroft Brehaut, Past Master
Herbert Henry Eling, Past Master
457 Edward D Courtney, Junior Warden.... ...... 56.98
R amona ····························No.
.... ohn M. V~ Dolah, Senior Warden
Jack E. Anderson. Past Master
Henry S. Orme ..............No. 458.... C. Ed Beaumont, Muter·-·· ·-······················· 56.98
Howard L. Wallace, Senior W aroen
Milton H. Lang, P.M. and Inspector
Donald G. Edmonston, Past Master
Paul Nardella, Past Master
Riverbank ···········-··--·_No. 459....Kenneth W. Blake, Senior Warden............ 9.32
·460 ... Irwin W. Lauppe, Senior Warden................ 6.72
M ount Oso ···············-··-No.
· ames M. Paige, Juniol' Warden
~hillp F. Fleislg, Past Master
Lynn 0 . Stark. Past Master
Argonaut ..................... -.No. 461....Murray L. FriedlinJg, SenWlorardeWarden
Anthony T. Sola, uniOl'
n
Earl A. Caldwell, P.M. and Inspector
ck Blaine, Past Master
seph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
alter S. Flowers, Past Master
Hoadley Johnson, Past Master
William 0. Kuchlenz, Past Master
' :,!
John W. Rodgers, Past Master·
Carl Walter, Past Master
Paul Revere ....................No. 462.... Allan E. Aitel, MSas~er W rd
· ·
Kent S. Mason, emor a en
Perry A. Lawson, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, Asst. Grand Lecturer
Lowell H. Beckendorf, Past Master
William Bachman, Past Master
Henry Schindel, Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master

~

412
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repre1entative1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Morgan Hill .................. No. 463.... John Sanders, Master...................................... 6.48
Edward T. Ferri, Junior Warden
William L. Whidden, Past Master
Alta Vista ...................... No. 4&L.John H. Lea, Master
Fiori Mosca, Junior Warden
Samuel G. Clark, P.M. and Inspector
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Harold W. Stelling, Past Master
William J. Angenent, Past Master
William E. Culver, Past Master
Arthur E. Hewit, Past Master
George C. Siebe<), Past Master
John R. Titsworth, Past Master
Center ·-···-······················No. 465....Theodore Kinnune, Senior Warden.............. 30.98
Carl Schneider, Junior Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, P.M. and Inspector........ 30.98
L. B. Anderson, Past Master
\ibertas ......................•... No. 466 .... Robert W. Oates, Master.............................. 41.08
R. Carl Beck. Senior Warden
Arthur H. Lane, Junior Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Asst. Grand Lecturer.. 41.08
Robert J. l\!yers, Past Master
Charles R. Wilkes, Past Master
Culver City .................... No. 467....Russell W. Luzius, Master.............................. 56.98
Curtis J. Davis, Senior Warden
Glen D. Werts, Junior Warden
Herbert Hargrave, Jr., Past Master................ 56.98
Rockridge ........................No. 468.... Reynold F. Olson, Master
Harry E. Harman, Senior Warden
Yorba Linda ·············-···No. 469.._George Howard Lowe, Senior Warden........ 58.06
Lincoln ··--·····-··············No. 470.... Harvey L. Glass, Master
Benjamin W. Marsh, Seni<>i" Warden
John J. Dunn, Junior Warden
Carlton H. Rothblum, P.M. and Inspector
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Alexander McBirney, Past Master
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Delta ·-··-·······-················No. 471....Denzil D . .Kitchens, Master............................ 7.94
Horace W. Ohase, Senior Warden
Hugh G. Martin, P.M. and Inspector............ 7.94
George W. Graffis, Past Master
Taubner George Hamma, Past Master
Maui ·-·····························No. 472.... Albert John Collins, Senior Warden............ 362.83
• Blythe ..............................No. 473.... William T. Shannon, Master........................ 75.28
Edward M. Downs, Past Master
Victory ............................No. 474.... Arthur E. Kellogg, Master
McMalone Counts, Senior Warden
Donald A. Rushton, Junior Warden
William C. Bird, Past Master
Harry T. Darr, Past Master
Otto Von Raven, Past Master
America ...........•.............•No. 475....L. Roy Gallaway, Master................................ 56.98
Frank P. Flower, Senior Warden
Leo J. Wilron, Past Master
Coachella ........................ No. 476.... Friend P. Wilson, Senior Warden................ 69.28
Charles N. Thomas, Junior Warden
Rewell E. Carlton. P.M. and Inspector........ 69.28
Temblor ......•...................No. 477....C. Earl Gwin, Master........·-··-······················· 43.88
Thousand Oaks ............ No. 478.... Lester L. Gore, Master
John W. Jenson, Senior Warden
Ferd A. von Schlafke, Junior Warden

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repre1entatlves

413
1'tilea11e Allowed

Kenne!!h R. Evans, Past Master
Jerome F. Prager, Past Master
Ferd A. Schlafke, Past Master
Robert H. Stitt, Past Master
Orman T. Stone, Past Master
R. Percy Wisecarver, Past Master
Golden Rule .......•............No. 479.... Winfred E. Johnson, Master......................... . 4.54
ack LeVake, Senior Warden
Jess W. Lile, Junior Warden
Leonard W. Scott, Past Master
Oscar M. Swensen, Past Master
Edwin C. Van de Mark, Past Master
Fellowship ...................... No. 480....Lyn M. Bedient. Senior Warden
Edward J. Scholtz, Junior Warden
Herman Zeller, Past Master
Mt. Davidson ..................No. 481....Henry R. Michael, Master
William L. Christiansen, Junior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand MaSter
Daniel D. Rowlands, P.M. and Inspector
Alfred H. Nicoll, Past Master....................... . 2.94
Edward H. Redford, Past Master
Thomas J. Bass, Past Master
Walter H. Daily, Past Master
Carl P. McCarthy, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith .......... No. 482.... Milton P. Peterson, Master........................... . 56.98
Richard E. Johnson, Senior Warden
Thomas A. Carter, Past Master
P. H. Montgomery, Past Master
Howard F. Hilitabidel, Past Master
Bell --···~·····················No. 483.... Robert L. Stevenson, Master......................... . 56.98
Charles E. Lane, Senior Warden
John H. Means, Junior Warden
Fred F. Elliott, Senior Grand Deacon .......... 56.98
H. C. Comaford, Past Master
Albert Pike ···············:····No. 484....k<:~~ tatf~s.Sj~'r-orw:~················ 56.98
Chowchilla ...................... No. 485.... Roy Sdmauer, Senior Warden.•.................... 27.58
Caledonia ........................No. 486 .... Troy L. Bradshaw, Master.....·-····-··············· 41.08
Lorin 0. Montgomery, Senior Warden
Patrick J. Ford, Junior Warden
Wm. W. Shugart, P.M. and Inspector......... . 41.08
Robert W. Beckwi,th, Past Master
George F. Mendel"hausen, Past Master
Vallejo ..........................•.No. 487.... ~lllfurdn~_Sjj~~:,·s!!'~i!'W~d~·············· 3.30
Guthbert Menge, Junior Warden
John K. Harrison, Past Master
Ernest G. Branstetter, Past Master
Lawrence A. Bridge. Past Master
Alexander Valeatine, Past Master
Patterson ........................No. 488.... William M. White, Junior Warden.............. 9.22
East Bay ........................-No. 489.... Henry G. Berndt, Master
Arthur P. Songey, Senior Warden
Wayne Goslin, Junior Warden
Sergei N. Ivanoff, Past Master
Robert V. Abarta, Past Master
Clifford B. Marker, Past Master
John A. Sobey, Past Master
Carl M. Thomsen, Past Master
Corcoran ··········-········-···No. 490.... M. G. Craig, Elected Representative....•....... 33.30

114
Name of Lodge

No. of Loda:e

Repruentatlvea

115

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE
Mileage Allowed

Woodstock ......................No. 491....Chester L. Jack, Master
M. Allen Powers, Past MaJSter
Alvin A. Horwege, Past Master
Charles E. Jansen, Past Master
R. Emmett O'Brien, Past Master
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past MasteT
.
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master
Garvama ........................No. 492.... Edward Gondeck, Senior Warden............... . 56.98
Lawrence E. Pearce, Junior Warden
David C. Lee, Past MasteT
Atascadero ......................No. 493.... Bertram H. Mudgett, Senior Warden......... . 33.80
Walter Clay.ton, P.M. and Inspector............ 34.90
Acom ····- ························No. 494 .... Earl Patterson, Jr., Master
Nick Weisgerber, Senior Warden
J. Warren Manuel, Junior Warden
c. Lloyd Hanson, P.M. and Inspector
George P. Silliman, Past Master
Ralph Adams, Past Master
Rowland B. Reinlg, Past MaSter
Donald T. Williams, Past Master
Lebanon ················-···-···No. 495 .... Mervin J. Braunstein, MasteT
Mel C. Nathan, Jr., Senior Warden
Eugene Koppich, Junior Warden
Eugene S. Hopp, Past Master
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Fremont •...........•...........••No. 497.... William M. Nicholson, Sr., Master
Louis F. Schwartz, Senior Warden
Floyd W. Gregg, Junior Warden
Thomas M. Livingstone, Past Master
Melvin Oredsen, Past Master
Stockton ·········-···············No. 498.... Harold B. Weed, Junior Warden.................. 7.94
·Edgar D. Young, Past Master
Capital Oty ....................No. 499._.James D. Shrum, Senior Warden................ 8.40
Conrad A. Murray, Junior Warden
Harvey P. Gay, Past Master
Roosevelt ........................No. 500.... Nioola Colapietro, Senior Warden
Westwood ......................No. 501.... Haven R_oy Martin, Master....·-··-·······- - · 43.52
William M. McCollum, Senior Warden
Harbor ················-·········No. 502 .... Lawrence H. Brewster, Master
Charles E. McCray, Senior Warden
John E. Thurbon. Junior Warden
Harry L. Muller, P.M. & Inspector
Charles L. Stanley, Past Master
Joseph Genstt, Past Master
Allison R. Higgins, Past Masttt
Calvin Hull, Past Master
Point ···--·················· ·····-No. 503 .... Chester D. Gardner, Master
Johnnie C. Godwin, Senior Warden
Melvin B. McDaniels, Junior Warden
Victor Prenk, P.M. & fospector
Robert V. Wayletit, Past Master
John L. Caron, Past Master
Colvin W. Hicks, Past Master
Seaside •...........................No. 504.... ~~i:rdRK~N~le~·J;ci~;~·············· ··· 56.98
Alva C. Kirkland, Jr.. Junior Warden
Melvin R. BerboweT, P.M. & Inspector........ 56.98
Everett Houser, Past Master
Wm. T . Corbusler, Past Master
George D. Mag_ruder, Past Masttt
A. R. Moberg, Sr.. Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

llepruentatlvea

Milea1e AlloWed

Silver Cord .................... No. 505.... Thomas W. Thurman, Malter................- ....
H. Calvin Stilley, Senior Wwden
Mount Olive .................. No. 506.... Paul M. Palmer, Master..................................
Carl S. Passamaneck, Senior Warden
Ray L. McCord, Junior Warden
Russell Nol"throp, P.M. & Inspector..............
Fred A. Kelsey, Past Master
Harold M. Sailor, Past Master
El Segundo ......................No. 507.... Robert J. Lehman, Master..............................
William E. Young, Senior Warden
Earl D. Tramblie, Junior Warden
George 0. Rea, Pest Master
Joppa ................................No. 508.... Melvin Hughes, Master.............- ..................
Benjamin Franklin .......- No. 509....William G. Cairns, Senior Warden..............
Lloyd A. Jacaway, Junior Warden
J. Frank Moore, Past Master
Robert Wilkins, Past Master
Cupertino ........................No. 510....I:!:!~~E.Rt:,~es~ni~:W~···············
Stuart C. Williamson, P.M. & ln.spectw........
Sunnyvale .............. ~ .......No. 511....e
~i=~=i~~~~----············
Palms ..............................No. 512....Cleo C. Carney, Master- -····-······-·-········
John McLay, Senior Warden
Robert Neale, Junior Warden
Cahuenga ........................No. 513....Voyle H. Sipes, Master............ ......................
John B. NickeTson, Senioc Warden
Marvin L. Lynch, Junior Warden
Ray L. Whitney, Past Master
Harold A. Andttson. Past Masttt
Georg~ K. Calvin, Past Master
Don H. La Grange, Past Master
D. Lyle Todd, Past Master
Argonne ..........................No. 514.... Wallace F. BeTglin, Muter_.......................
•
Robert P. Hulce, Senior Warden
·
Cyril L. Thornton. Junior Warden
Clyde D. Lightbody, Past Master
Joseph J. Pape, Past Master
Frederick E. Wilhelm, Past Master
Vermont Square ............No. 515 ....John D. Byork, Master
.
Frank N. Srn~th, Senior Warden
Roy E . Maginnis, Past Master
William M. De Jane, Past Master
J. W. Inzer, Past Master
Taft ............. ______No. 516....Cecil L. Barton, Master.... _ ...........................
Pete Gianopulos. Senior Warden
Mount Vernon ................No. 517.... George E. Payne, Master
Boyd A. W ise, Junior Warden
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Alfred Stettler, Past Master
Walter L. Stoblng, Past Master
La Jolla -·-······- ···-········No. 518....J. Lowell Brown, Master..............................
•
louls L. Potomac, Senior Warden
J. Wilson Getsinger, Junior Warden
H. H. Ralph Alman, P.M. & lnspedor.........~
Robert B. Watts, Past Master
Euclid _ ..........................No. 519.... ~~H.BM:'a~~~~·s!!:~;d;~

58.06
56.98
56.95
56.98

31.18
56.98

3.74
3.74
3.74
56.98
56.98

56.98

43.58

67.70
67.70

................. 56.98

Percy M. Bezanson. Past Muter

416
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repre1entativea

Mileage Allowed

Ionic .....•...•...................... No. 520....Bernard J. Aaronson, Master........................
John S. Biren, Senior Warden
Richard L. Weiss, Junior Warden
Claude Lenz, Past Master
Nathan Schwartz, Past Master
Piedmont ........................No. 521....Gail H. David, Past Master
Walter F. Schag, Past Master
Sunrise ............................No. 522.... J. Jack McVay, Master..................................
L. Glenn Carroll, Senior Warden
Bellflower ........................ No. 523.... Robert F. Ryan, Master......-.........................
Leon E. Denton, Junior Warden
Catalina Island .............. No. 524....
~~lhm~h::.-s•·w;;;d~~.............

If.d:.Jd

417

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

56.98

56.98
56.98
68.09

George Washington ...... No. 525 .... Robert L. Bowen, Master
John T. Buchanan, Junior Warden
Adolph H. Franzen, P.M. & Inspector
Chester M. Smith, Past Master
Clyde E. Bowen, Past Master
Frank E. Buehn, Past Master
John Johnston, Past Master
Bay City ........................No. 526 .... Ralph E. Bliss, Master
George Goldman, Senior Warden
Bernard F. Cohn, Junior Warden
Thos. A. Deth'lefsen, Past Master
Edgar U. Meyer, Past Master
Covenant ........................ No. 527.... Alfred V. Dahl, Jr.. Master............................ 56.98
Myron Roy Hubbell, Senior Warden
Everett S. Todd, Grand Standard Bearer.... 56.98
Beverly Hills .................. No. 528.... Harry L. Ream, Master................................ 56.98
Richter H. Scoht, Junior Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr., Past Grand Master........ 56.98
Joe Bookman, Past Master
C. Earle Crane, Past Master
Loyalty ..........................•.No. 529.... Julian Wolf, Master......•...·--······················· 56.98
David S. Crystal. Senior Warden
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Past Grand Master.... 56.98
Joseph A. Visger, Past Master
Sun Garden ....................No. 530.... W. R. Waddell, Senior Warden..•................. 30.98
Herbert R. Hargrave, P.M. & Inspector........ 30.98
E. L. Coyle, Past Master
Clyde R. Allbritten, Past Master
L. R. Stubblefield, Past Master
Alexandria ....•............•.... No. 531.. .. Ernest Albert Hart:man, Master
Alexander K. Wharton, Senior Warden
Elvis Hobson Brown, Junior Warden
William S. Brannan, Past Master
Harry Anhhony Bolger, Past Master
Edmund Stephen Davidson, Past Master
Frank Foster Goodman, Past Master
Stewart Harry Hook, Past Master
Smyrna ............................No. 532.... Jack H. Allred. Senior Warden.................... 10.14
Azure ···--·······················No. 533.... Dan D. Duff, Junior Warden........................ 58.06
Layton S. Conover, Past Master
Forest Hill .....................•No. 534.... Francis S. Heuring, Master
Irving M. Smit:h, Senior Warden
Richard N. Daniel, Junior Warden
James N. Rae, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ...... No. 535.... Darius R. Mansell, Master............................ 56.98
Wallace W. Ketchum, Senior Warden
Donald S. Brown, Junior Warden
Edward A. Stone, P.M. & Inspector.............. 56.98
Edward J. Blickfeldt. Past Master................ 56.98

Name of Lodce

No. of Lodge

Repre10ntativea

Milea1e Allowed

Willson C. Clark, Past Master
Gordon N. McHenry, Past Master
Roland W. Snow, Past Master
Seal Rock ........................No. 536.... Allison M. Church, Jr., Master
George E. Nickel, Senior Warden
Russell H. Sievers, Past Master
Abe Baluklan, Past Master
Edwin W. Bode, Sr., Past Master
John K. Wright, Past Master
Utopia .•..•......•..................No. 537.... Harold J. Gordon, Senior Warden..............
Ascot ·---·-··················--No. 538....Eugene A. Wilson, Master.._..........................
·
Hartsel E. Reed, Senior Warden
Martin 0. Veland, P .M. & Inspector............
Lyman E. Farris, Past Master
Belvedere ..........- ...........No. 539.... Clyde L. White, Senior Warden....................
Queen Beach ..................No. 540....Charles S. Murry, Master..............................
Albert: W. Lilliehoom, Senior Warden
Henry Morse Stephens.. No. 54 L.Rudolf Stohler, Master
Jack G. Smith, Senior Warden
Edwin R. Rowe, Junior Warden
Robert H. Taylor, P.M. & Inspector
John Richmond, Past Master
Nort!h Hollywood ..........No. 542.... Edsall P. Read, Master......- .........................
Ralph V. Kellinger, Senior Warden
Reginald Bunce, P.M. & Inspector................
Clarence A. Ross, Past Master
Oscar S. Dewees, Past Master
W.JamesMann,PastMaster
Signal ··---·---····-··-··-··No. 543.... Dale E. Gunderson, Master............................
James B. Valentine, Senior Warden
John A. Kline, P.M. & Inspector_.................
Walter H. Fike, Past Master
Theo. A. Reynolds, Past Master
Glendale ··-·····-...............No. 544.... Lloyd 0. Emmerichs, Master_.__................
Manuel J. Avila, Senior Warden
Harold L. Hoppert, Junior Warden
Paul R. Queen, Past Master
Archie D. Strayer, Past Master
Edward L. Wardlaw, Past Master
Jonathan ·----·~--···--··--No. 545.... George Cordodor, Master
William Tomlinson, Senior Warden
Conrad Hopper, Junior Warden
San Gabriel ~ .........,.......No. S<i6.... ~ge W. Scherer, Jr. ~aster •...,.............
H. W. Hetzler, Senior Warden
Harrison J. Williams. Junior Warden
W. Clare Moore, Past Moster
Arcadia ......- ..................No. 547....Louis J. Humble, Master.•..- -.................
Edward C. Murfett, Senior Warden
Victor H. Gunderson, Past Master
Triangle ......................-.No. 548.... Edwln L. Pierce, Master....- .........................
Robert R. Crowell, Senior Warden
Charles T. Murdock, Junior Warden
Peter P. Phillips. Past Master
Justice - ......................._No. 549.... William Root Cruickshank, Master
Ronald Alfred Brittain, Senior Warden
Nathan Belt Cooper, Junior Warden
Paul A. Hackler, P.M. & Inspector
Andrew Burke, Past Master
William Willis Barry, Past Master

56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98

56.98
56.98

56.98
56.98
56.32

56.98

56.98
56.98

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lod11e

Repruentativea

419

Mileage Allowed

Milton Francis Conklin, Past MaSter
11homas H. Jenkins, Past Master
Rush Manbert, Past Master
Percy Vane Maury, Past Master
Seaport ............................No. 550.... Laurence 0. Heath, Mast:Wer rd
Floyd B. Scullin, Senior a en
Frank E. Riitchie, Junior Warden
John Wullsahleger, Past Master
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
Bertram C. VQ1l lfonsky, Past Master
Lakeshore ........................No. 551 .... Ernest E. Dumma.51an, Master
Edward L. Land, junior Warden
Lee B. Ferguson, Past Master
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Semper Virens ............•... No. 552.... L. L: Coe, Junior Warden.-.......................... .
Alexander Duncan. P.M. & Inspector......... _.
Educator .......................... No. 554.... James A. Robertson, MasterW d
Arthur Vernon Ivy, Senior ar en
Delbert 0. Tanner, Junior. Warden
J. Lloyd Smith, Past Master
Emmett L. Bundy, Past Master
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
R. L. Smirle, Past Master
White Pine ....................No. 555.._Not Represented
Fairfax ··-········-·--············No. 556.... Robeit A. Smallman.Se MaWsterard
Michael D. Rich, nlor
en
Samuel Levin, Junior Warden
Lynn E. Batt, Past Master
Hermosa .•........................No. 557.... Robert Hugo Wagstaff, Senior Warden..... .
Paul Thompson, P.M. & Inspector................
No 558 .. Walter H. Sawyer, Master........................... .
Point Fl·rnun·
·················· '
.. Bruce L. Wilson, Senior Warden
·
James J. Nash, Junior Warden
Craftsmen ·-·····················No. 559.... M. B. Zimmerman, Senior Warden............. .
Plymouth ....................•... No. 560.... Clarence Van Buren, MWastarder
Nick J. Pappas, Senior
en
George D. McDonald, Junior Warden
Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master
Peter M. Tripp, Past Master
Leon C. Babbitt, Past Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
Willis H. Gilleltte, Past Master
oseph J. Lagler, Past Master
dhn 0. Reynolds, Past Master
Gerald E. Rhine, Past Master
East San Diego ............ No. 561....Alfred L. Holroyd, SeniWor Wdaroen..............
James H. Smitlh, Junior ar en
Howard G. Bell, Sr., Put Master
Richard P. McClammy, Jr., Past Master
Robert G. Woll, Past Master
Pyramid ···················-·····No. 562.... Edward J. Moody, MaMster
John H. Brooke, Past aster
Ohester H. Newell, Past Master
South Park •..............•......No. 563.... \V~i!~B.'l~~~~s·~~~-w~"d;~-----------Max F. Vail, Past Master
William G. Foley, Past Master
Bert R. Gustelius, Past Master
Milton J. 11homason, Past Master
Foothill ......................~ .....No. 564.... Herbert L. Carter, MasterW _,_
Robert A. Lars011, Senior a.-uen
Victor H. Campbell, Junior Warden

Name of Lodge .

No. of Lodge

Repruentativea

Mileage Al10wed

Ben L. MiUler, Past Master
Lionel C. Raymond, Past Master
West Adams .........:........No: 565.... Romanzo G. Lyman, Senior Warden.......... 56.98
Leland L. Berger, Jr., Junior Warden
James A. Garfield ..........No. 566.... Clay Robbins, Master.................................... 56.98
·
· Lester C. Fairfield, Senior Warden
Robert B. Kirk. Junior Warden
Field Thompson, P.M. & Inspector............... . 58.20
Joseph W. Danely, Past Master
'
56.98
searohli.ght ..:_____ :...........No. 567....

t!~b~:=~!:i~w;;;J;;;················

39.72
37.72

56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98

J

67.70

56.98

Park Boulevard ..............No. 568 .... James T. Woods. Master
Emil R. Anderson, Senior Warden

&~eE~a~~~i~:Ml=~-~~~~---·-------

James E. Hammond, Past Master
tloyd M. Bradforo, Past Master
Edward W. Lonrg, Past Master
Chateau Thierry ............No. 569.... Paul E. Richey, Master
Rasmus V. Rossen, J•unior Warden
Howard S. Kaulbach, P.M. & Inspector
HaroldD. Weber, Past Master
Military Service ............No. 570.... Harry A. Kallberg, Master
Louis M. Susman, Senior Warden
John Kinces. Junior Warden
Louis H. Strohecker, Past Master
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Otto F. Hansen. Past Master
Hubert A. Hemphill, Past Master
Chang Walh Lee, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck. ....... No. 571....Paul F. Leo11g, Senior Warden
.
Kenneth K. Danielson, Junior WMden
Elbert W. Davis, Grand Lecturer
W. George McClusky, Past Master
· '· ·
James Madison ....,...........No. 572.... Herman T. Nelson, Senior Warden..............
Ray Smit!h, P.M. & Inspector_......................
Hillcrest .........................•No. 573.... John H. Warner, Master
· D. F. T. Parkin, Senior Warden
Brown Zarley, Past Master
M"er'lin W. Drucquer, Past Master
James T. Duthie, Past Master
S. W. Hackett ············-··No. 574.... John L. Odle, Master......................................
·
··
Robert E. Wilson, Senior Warden
Harold A. Gasner, Junior Warden
Leonel C. Panosh, Past Master
Joseph H. Wagner, Past Master
Fort Crook ......................No. 575.... Salvadore A. Chiesa, Senior Warden....·--···
Reginald Reynolds, P.M. & lmpeclllor......•.•.
El ~Jon Valley .........-.No. 576.... Homer A. Vincent, Master_.........................
·
William R. Bledsoe, Senior Warden
James A. Patrick, Junior Warden
Hugh D. Good, P.M. & lnapeotor................
Byron J. Conrad, Past Master
Sunnyside ·-··················No. 577.... Herbert S. Cogar, Master-~·······-···········-······
•.
Donald R. Coon. Senior Warden
Louis H. Mahler, P.M. & Inspector.............•
Guy A. Toole, Past Master
John A. Low, Past Master
George W. Dean, Past Master

8.40

56.98
56.98

67.70

42.32
42.32
68.80
68.40
56.98
56.98

i20

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

llepn:aentativa

421

Milea1e Allowed

Progreaslve -·-.,·········--No. 578 ....Travls E. Hollingsvrorth, Master..,...•.......:...,
George M. Sturgis, Junior Warden
Earl B. Sansing, Past Master.....................-...
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
J. Howard Edwards, Past Master
Roy 0. Miller, Past Master
Warren G. Harding....._.No. 579.. _Elbert M. Coon. Master-···---···-···-···Boyd M. Duncan, Senior Warden
Carl W. Brainard, Past Muter
Conrad E. Herrmann, Past Master
Santa Maria ······-·-··-···-No. 580._.Paul E. Simon, Elected MRepresentative.....-.
Zenas Y. Coleman, Past aster
Security ·····-··---·-No. 581....Kenneth L. Morris, Master..............................
Lyle L. Stumbaug·h, Senior Warden
Marion May, Junior Warden
Ken P. Sward, Past Master
Leonard T. Jenkins, Past Master
0
•aito
No
582
James H. Weller,
Warden....·-········"'
···-····-······-···-····- •
--:Raymond
C. Post, Senior
Junior Warden
Wasco -··-··-·---·__No. 583 __ Georg_e Murray Evans, Senior Warden.-.....
John Graham Hill, Junior Warden
Fi·ed Chas. Pritschke, P.M. & Inspector._.....
Harding ·····------·No. 584.... Donald H. McDonald, Junior Warden..... __
Anson McArthur, P .M. & Inspector..·-······Melvin A. Pixley, Put Master
Manchester ···········-·······No. 585 .... ku~~~~d~~\laJi~!:;~;·y~~~~\v;;~d;~······
Elmer R. Lotz, P.M. & Inspector...........-.....
Rosario DIMiceli, Past Master
Floyd E. Fowler, Past Master
Garden Grove ···--··-·-·No. 586.... Rlchard P. Haster, Master... ·--····-·-·--William B. Hinkle, Senior Warden
Woodrow W. Reyburn, Junior Warden
Walter K. Reed, P.M. & Inspector_.... _.......
Valley Forge ·····----No. 587.... Joseph B. Marts, Master.............---·····-··-·
Burton L. Thompson, Senior Warden
Leslie S. Wayman, P .M. & Inspector.......-..
Chas. S. Barrett. Past Master

56.98
56.98

8.40

71.00
41.08

61.94
36.56
36.56
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
58.06
58.06
56.98
56.98

El Sereno ................._,_No. 588.... ~~b;cf~~al<:tfJ::~~:!~S;;ii~;·wud;p-.. 56.98
William 0. Phegley, P. M.
August J. Bendler, Past Master
Kauai ........._....- ...........No. 589....Copeland G. Davi& SentMo~- Wln.sarden__.. ~~-~
Hector McD. Moir, P. . u
pector......-~
.
Sau Yee Chang, Past Master
Compass _______.J\lo. 590.... Norman V. Unroe, Junior Warden........... _ 60.26
Philip S. Hunt, P.M. & Inspector......-........... 60.26
Escalon ...........- .......,..._.No. 591.. .. Not Represented
Tujunga ..............____ ....No. 592.... Harold W. Weyjlandt,WJr., Sdenlor Warden.. 56.32
Ed. B. Plummer, junior ar en
All States ...............__No. 593....J<;ri,e; ts!:.fe:s~~aa~~;d~---··56.98
Lawrence J. McEldowney, Past Master
Hubert H. Keesling, Past Master
Service
No. 594..... Paul D. Nowlin. Master......- ..............-........ 56.98
.............· - · - George L. Richards, Senior Warden
George M. Hystad, Junior Warden
Ralph F. Rutherford. Put Master

..·-····-···

Name of Lodee

No. of Lodge

llepreuatatiw•

Milea11c Allowed

Alexander Graham BelLNo. 595_.Lawrence B. Henry, Senior Warden....... __ 56.98
Dean Soles. Junior Warden
Graham A. Backus. Past Master-....__ ........... 56.98
Ellwood F. Herrin, Past Master
Guardian _____ _ N a . . 596_E. R. "Pat" Hayes, Muter... _ ...........- ...-... 56.98
James H. Hoole, Senior Warden
Pearl Harbor ........---···No. 598...Joseph P. Dennehy, Master.............___________ 338.19
Charles B. Turner, Senior Warden
Lea Arnold, Past Master
Carl E. Williams, Past Master
Carmelita ------..........No. 599.... Daniel Parker Jund, Master.......................... 58.20
Alfurd Sundin, Senior Warden
Kermit A. Jacobson, Pa.st Master
Charles Cecil Davis, Put Master
Jay D. Rinehart, Past Master
Lynwood ____ __No. 600.... Ralph A. Herbold, Master....--·--······--- 56.98
Milton E. Ammann, Senior Warden
Henry L. Palmer, Junior Warden
Edward M. Stitz, Past Master
John D. Keen, Past Master
Grizzly --·------No. 601....Earl D. Fonda, Elected Representative........ 36.70
Melrose _................_._..No. 602.... Thomas E. Buford, Master-....·-----..··--····· 56.98
G. Earl Outram, Senior Warden
Kenneth P. Buford, Junior Warden
Edwin C. T. Church, Past Master
Dimond ---·----·--No. 603.... Harry E. Keys, Master
Frank R. Bates, Senior Warden
Warren J. Blomseth, Junior Warden
James J. Torrtson, Past Master
Jubilee
No. 604.... H. Max Pentecost, Senior Warden......-...... 58.06
Glassel! Park ----...No. 605.... Marvln F. Graham, Senior Warden........-- 56.98
James C. Holt, Junior Warden
Frank W. Johnson, P.M. and Inspector..... _ 56.98
Sojourner ............_ .........No. 607.... George T. Neill, Junior Warden...........__ ... 58.06
Granada ------------~--No. 608.... Howard L. Ferguson, Master......- ....... _
56.98
Gus A. Hart. Senior Warden
Calvin D. Yegge, Junior Warden
Donald G. Cclmpbell, Asst. Grand Lecturer- 58.20
Provident -·-·---.No. 609.. _Ned E. Ubben, Master......- .........._........ 8.40
F. Lee Lurty, Senior Warden
Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master..-......... 8.40
Carlyle F. Van Patten, Past Master..._.. _____ 8.40
Elmhurst - - - - -...No.. 610.... Harold E. Hardman, Master
CecilW.Doggett,SeniorWarden
Earl L. Kinder, Junior Warden
Canoga -·--··--·- ·-....No. 611....Charles 0. Fling, Master......-····--·-····- 56.98
Henry H. Looysen, Senior Warden
Wm. P. Forbes, Jr., Past Master
Temple Oty ......____ No. 612.... Howard L. Taber, Master................-........... 56.98
Mark E. Schrock, Senior Warden
Oscar F. Watson, Junior Warden
Charles M. Coffland, P.M. and Inspector.. __ 56.98
Rupert C. Curtis, Past Master
Three Pillars .....- ......._No. 613....James H. Phillips, Master............................. _
8.40
Floyd L. Baker, Senior Warden
Harold J. Suhr, Junior Warden
Sam Lovell, P.M. & Inspector...........-·····-·- 8.40
Archie R. Graves, Past Master
George F. Pakard, Past Master

422
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

R.epre11entativu

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

423

Mileage Allowed

Larchmont .....................•No. 6H .... Bemard E. Ingram, Master............................
·
Robert A. Simon, ·Senior Warden
." · ·
Newcomb Condee, Past Master.:......:·.... :.~---·
Herb. H. Cooper, Past Master
.
James W. Young, Past Master
. Hemet -·························--.No. 615 .... W. Ross Williams, Master............................
Edward J. Long, Junior Warden .
·
Hubert J. Raymond, P.M. & Inspector
.
Wilbur Raymond, Past Master......................
R. E. Dolley ........•........... No. 616.... Charles E. Erickson, Senior Warden............
.
Frank 0. Brostrom, Past Master
Big Bear .......................... No. 617.... James L. Ward, Senior Warden..... ...............
Fred Butts, Junior Warden
Earl M. Vigus, P.M. and lnapector..............
Larry P. Boyle. Past Master
Roy R. Rodin, Past Master
Southland ·················-·····No· 618....T<homas Noble, Master..................................
Herbert C. Duenckel, Senior Warden
.
· Neptune --·--···············-···No. 619....
ii~~~s~;u;;;a~:;d·~~----·-········--·····

Yc;h:°k.

George F. Roberts, Past Master
Point Loma .................... No. 620.... 0tls N. Presley, Senior Warden..................
Howard S. Fisher, Junior Warden
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
Henry M. Reynolds, Past Master
Milton Schachtebeck, Past Master
The Gardens .................. No. 621....Richard C. Watson, Master..........................
Harry Kaprielian, Senior Warden
Gerald E. Hopper, Junior Warden
Floyd S. Vandegrihs, Past Master
Atwater ...........,............:.No. 622....Viotor L. Frank, Master................................
Gilbert H. Peterson, Senior Warden
Richard H. Dutwiler, Junior Warden
Frederick H. Chapman, Grand Bible Bearer..
Charles F. Chapman, P.M. and Inspector......
··
·
Jesse M. Few, Past Master...-.........................
Menorah ..-.,.................... No. 623.... Hugih S. Doddridge, Senior Warden............
,Fortitude ·····-··-·········-··No. 624.... Sam Tishkowsky, Master
•
James B. Barbero, Senior Warden
Alfred Schwartz, Junior Warden
Ralph M. Webb, Past Master
Russell G. Worth, Past Master
Angeles '- Mesa ................ No. 625.... Harold 0. Larsen, Master............................ ..
Donald M. Coelman. Senior Warden
George E. Millhollin, Junior Warden
Gordon S. Duncan, Past Master
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Chula Vista ....................No. 626.... Alvin A. Nelson, Senior Warden..................
Clarence B. Hart, Junior Warden
_
Jdhn M. Greife, Past Master
Lamanda Park ................ No. 627.... Charles C. Love, Master............................ ....
Lincoln Ellabarger, Senior Warden
H. E. Pompey, Past Master
Truth •.................:........... No. 628.... Frank B. Myers, Master................................
•· ·
Wynn N. Bryce, Junior Warden
·
·
·
·
R. Roy Forkner, Past Master
Fairview ··-······--·~-'-----No. 629.... Kenneth E. Greene, Master..........................
Glenn E. Ponieroy, Jr., Senior Warden
Harold C. Mudgett, Past Master
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
Lester W. Burbank, Past Master
Russell C. Harris, Past Master
John A. Howard, Past Master
'Thomas M. Widick, Past Master

56.98
56.98
57.42
66.22
56.98
64.64
64.64
56.98
56.98
67.70

56.98

56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98

56.98

67.70
58.20
56,98
56.98

Name of l-odge

No. of Lod11e

R.epre11entative1

.

Mileage Al!owed

Ingleside ....................... _.No. 630.... Henry C. Clausen, P.G.M. & Judge Advocate
.
.
.
Lloyd E. Wilson, P.G.M. & Grand Secretaf"}'
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Phil S. Tolman, Past Master
.
Benevolence .................... No. 631 .... Clarence H. McCullough, Senior Warden.... 56.98
Maurice J. Norton, Junior Warden
Normal Heights .............. No. 632 .... Robert Steele Hoyle, Senior Warden.......... 67.70
Marshall Lyle Smith, Junior Warden
Ben T. Salmon, Past Master
Leland E. Kellerhouse, Past Master
Poinsettia ........................No. 633.... lf!!ij\'o.~r:ter~s!~f~·w;;d;;;················ 49.78
A!lfred L. Gook. Junior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau. Past Grand Master.......... 48.24
Guy S. Harts, Sr., P.M. & lnspecior.............. 49.78
Robert J. Campbell, Past Master
Lloyd M. Ryckman, Past Master
Oifford C. Fouhse, Past Master
Arthur T. Mead, Past Master
Victorville ......................No. 634....Willard F. Cameron, Master........................ 65.74
Wm.-T. Boehringer, Senior Warden
Riverside ........................No. .635.... Benjamin J. Whelan, Senior Warden ........ __ 62.40
Alfred M. James, Junior Warden
··
Charles H. Grace, Past Master
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
John Marshall ................No. 6:36.... Lyle S. Hubbard, Master.............................. 56.98
Ruthven E. Oglivie, Senior Warden
Atwill Morgan, Past Master............................ 56.98
Palsides .......................... No. 637.... Frank Lanes. Master-..·-·····························' 56.98
Peter F. Lanes. Senior Warden
Indian Rock .................... No. 638.... Cyril G. Page, Master
.
Frederick J. Artus, Senior Warden
Martin E. Ekstrand, Junior Warden
David E. Lane, Past Master
Frederick T. Herrick, Past Master
Edward L. Kearney, Past Master
.
Wallace D. McAllister, Past Master
Composite ·················-···No. 639....lrving I. Levine, Master·--·························· 56.98
Arthur Drltz, SenlOI' Waiden
Arthur Dvorin, Past Master
.
Veritas .......•- ..................No. 640.... 0scar W. Norman, Past Master
Irving J. Kohnke, Past Master
.
Washington I. Kohnke, Past Master
James A. Foshay ............ No. 641.. .. Geoffrey Morgan~Browne, Senior Warden.. 56.98
Fred C. Leeming, Junior Warden
Kenneth Sunner, Past Master
La Cumbre ······-··············No. 642.... John P. Franklin, Senior Warden................- 47.20
.
H. Lionel Savinon, Junior Warden
Jess Sheegog, Past Master
Arthur Boone, Past Master
Alta Loma ············-'·······No. 643.... Alan V. Shilling,· Master................................ 56.98
· .
C.arl C. Oster, Senior Warden
'
Lomita ······-"··-·······--·······No. 644.... Frank W. Tenney, Master............................ 56.98
Donald D. Hansen. Senior Warden
.Joe A. Haslam, Junior Warden
A. F. E. Irwin ···········-·'·No. 645.... Warren W. Garrison. Jr.. Past Master...... 56.98
John N. Rodgers, Senior Warden
lvar Thoren. Junior Warden
Metropolitan ................... No. 646.... Gordon T. Nicklin, Senior Warden............ 56.98
Frank Everett, Past Master
Kenneth H. Dowru;, Past Master

424
Name of Lod~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repn:eentatlva

425

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileaae All""Nd

Hawthorne .....•......•.•.•...••No. 647.... Udell Woods, Senior Warden......·-····-·······
Ebert A. Jackson, Junior Warden
John A. Owen, P.M. & Inspector....._.............
Damascus ·······-···•·······-·No. 648.... James S. Maddock, Master................ ·-·········
Clark A. Ingli, Senior Warden
Joseph L. Ousley, P.M. & Inspector..............
Noel W. Roser, Past Master
William G. Chamberlain, Past Master
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master
Florence ..........................No. 649.... Maeser Wilson, Maattt..................................
Wm. W. Sheve, Senior Warden
Fred W. Waitman, P.M. & Inspector............
Willard G. Meier, Past Master
La Brea ···-···--·--···········-··No. 650....William G. Lee, Master..................................
Frank S. Beautrow, Senior Warden
Geo. W. Burch, Jr., Past Master....................
Hugh J. Cameron, Past Master
Francis C. Ford, Past Master
Russell R. Lee, Past Master
Emil 0. Ostrom, Past Master
W. E. Robertson, Past Master
Ray S. Smith, Past Master
John W. Swank, Past Master
Chas. Yecsmen, Past Master
Menlo Park ....................No. 651.... Reginald H. Stevens, Master........................
Albert F. Koula, Senior Warden
Russell J. Braasch, Junior Warden
David Wright, Grand Tiler
Crescenta Valley ..........No. 652....Thomas J. Dale, Master................................
ames L. Lenarth, Senior Warden
ohn W. Cade, Junior Warden
JJames
R. Youn11. Past Master
Charles Estep, Past Master
Fontana ..........................No. 653....William M. Riches, Senior Warden...•·-·····
Omar C. Kermode, Junior Warden
Jordan ...............•..............No. 654.... Lewis T. Tedford, Senior Warden................
Donald V. Marengo, Junior Warden
IJoyd M. Woods. Past Master
Monte Vista .•................No. 655.... W. Al Langdon, Master..·-·-········-············Delmar C. Woizeski, Senior Warden
Citro) ..............................No. 656.... Frank E. Blystone, Senior Warden............
John D. Spreckels ..........No. 657.... Froman Barrett, Master..................·--··········
Charles M. Broderick, Senior Warden
Horace H. Blair, Past Master
Francis M. Linderman, Past Master
Livingston ......................No. 658.... Harrison F. Taylor, Senior Warden............
La Habra ........................No. 659.... Arthur Corbett, Master-···--··--··········-·····
Milan McGraw, Senior Warden
Calvin Rainey, Junior Warden
Riley L. Blurton, P.M. and Inspector............
Baldwin Park .................. No.. 660.... Tames B. Faris, Senior Warden.--···-······
William A. Sawyer, Junior Warden
Fred L. Ferguson, Sr.. P.M. 6 lmpecitoi-......
Marion Mell. Past Master
Malta ···--·--·"·-····-·-No. 661....Charles D. Fleming, Senior Warden..........
Lawrence Jaques, Past Master
Henry Knox ....................No. 662.... Frank David Thomson, Master....................
Harry Beauford Keeling, Senior Warden......
Herman Otto Schlobohm, Junior Warden
Paul R. Nichols, Past Master
Edwin Robert Wolf, Past Master

56.98
56.98
61.9-t
61.94

56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98

2.82

56.98

58.06
56.98
56.98
58.06
67.70

11.92
58.06
58.06
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98

N•Dle of Lod~

No. of Lodge

Repn:aentatlv..

Mileage Anowed

Ojai ···--····--···-·······-·--···No. 663.... James L. Hickman, Senior Warden..............
Howard M. Quick, Junior Warden
Kaweah ......•....•.....•........No. 665....Vemon C. Gayer, Master............................
Maurice E. Bryant. Senior Warden
Reseda ............................No. 666....W. Maurice Crane, Master..........................
Frank J. Homer, Senior Warden
Frank S. Bernard, Past Master
Meridian ..........................No. 667....Jihn M. Swan, Master....................................

49.90

Frank W. Raddatz, P.M. & Inspector............
A. Allan Porteous, Past Maste
San Gorgonio ................No. 668.... B. J. Skipper, Master......................................
Lloyd J. Goodman, Senior Warden
Jack R. Washburn, Junior Warden
Myrle Doolittle, Past Master
Vern C. Mills, Past Master
John P. Jarman ..............No. 669.... Fred N. Anderson, Master............. _.............
Rodney V. Gupton, Senior Warden
Luther Brannon, Junior Warden
Russell F. Brownell, Past Master
Nels. H. Johnson, Past Master
Hebert Pritchard, Past Master
William H. Reed, Past Master
Clair B. Sheets, Past Master
Greenleaf ............._.,_.No. 670.... George C. Stumpf, Master.......•..........·-·······
Donald C. Muller, Senior Warden
Hugh M. Topping, P.M. & Inspecror...........•
San Clemente -····---No. 671.... David H. Blakelock. Elected Representative
Laguna Beach ······-~.No. 672..•.Charles Logan, Senior Warden....................
W. Ben Sorrells, Asst. Grand Lecturer..........
Far West ....•............••- ..No. 673.... Walter E. Barrus, Master
S. Myron Tatarlan, Senior Warden
Francis A. Gates, Junior Warden
Charles L. Foster, P.M. & Inspector
William C. Kunz, Past Master
Nante Walter Anderson, Past Master
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
George B. Quamby, Past Master
Albert S. Sandell, Past Master
Los Cerritos ·····'··-·-·-··.No. 674....Bernard Friedland, Senior Warden....·-·······
Jay Albert Robinson, Junior Warden
Samuel E. Leddel, Past Master
Arthur J. Sissons. Past Master
Modesto _ .......................No. 675....William T. Alcorn, Senior Warden............
Willow Glen ............_ ...No. 676.... James A. Minor, Senior Warden....................
Charles R. Carpenter, Junior Warden
Frank N. Long, P.M. & Inspector... _...........
Harold S. Medo, Past Master
Helger G. Hansen, Past Master
Almer W. Laderich, Past Master
Thornton D. Webster, Past Master
Liberal Arts ....................No. 677.... Glarence G. Hall, Master.................-.............
John F. Porter, Senior Warden
Wm. A. "Lon" Fishback, Junior Warden
Elvin C. Drake, P.M. & Inspector..................
Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master..·-·······
Frank H. Reinsch, Past Master
Altadena ..........................No. 678•... Joe L. Schwinn, Master..................................
S. Clinton Pullen, Senior Warden
Donald D. Pope, Junior Warden

56.32

36.14
56.98
56.32

JohX:~~M~~~~~:~~n'fM~:r............... 56.98

65.22

4.54

58.38
58.38
60.48
58.74
58.74

56.98

9.66
4.54
4.54

56.98
56.98
58.20
58.20

426

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

Canby Cross ......- .......... No. 679.... Robert M. Addison, Junior Warden..............
Carmel ·······················-···No. 680.... Edward Paul Md<Instry,
Elected Representative................................
Ralph William Thompson, Sr., Past Master
Do.s Palos ........................No. 681....Thomton W. Owen, Master..........................
Kenneth B. Haslam, Senior Warden
Barstow ·--······· .............No. 682....John H. Marsh, Senior Warden..................
James E. Keener, Junior Warden
Redwood Empire ..........No. 683.... Howard E. Martin. Master..........................
Trona ............... _......:....... No. 684.... Raymond S. Miller, Senior Warden............
Lynn A. Blackmun, P.M. & Inspedlor............
Hardin I. Lineback, Past Master
San Marino ....................No. 685.... W. Glen E. Irwin, Master............................
Stephen J. Collins, Senior Warden
Attillo G. Parisi, Junior Warden
G. Wesley Parr, Past Master
Albany ............................No. 686.... Edgar E. Jourdan, Senior Warden
Harold D. Ohester, Junior Warden
Ambrose Ray Graham, Past Master
Vista ................................No. 687.... Arthur J. McDaniel, Senior Warden..........
James K. Bartee, Junior Warden
Lewis H. Field. P.M. & Inspector..................
Andrew H. Chung, Past Master
Oilda1e ............................No. 688....l:"R~n ~te~t~Se:i~w~-;;;:·--·--··--···--··

J:

Robert L. Lane, Junior Warden
Henry G. Dobie, Past Master
Pohona .......... ~................. No. 689.... Lawrence R. Brochini, Senior Warden........
San Carlos ......................No. 690.... Homer W. Lang, Master
Richard E. Robinson. Senior Warden
Anchor Neilsen, Junior Warden
E. Ross Baylis, P.M. & Inspector
Alfred R. Pedersen, Past Master
Indian Wells Valley...... No. 691....Charles D. Radcliff, Master..........................
Albert W. Adams, Senior Warden
Jahn H. R. Lyttle, Junior Warden
Travelers ···········-···········No. 692.... Gilbert G. Green, Master·-·-·······················
J. H. D. Bassett, Senior Warden
Palm Springs .................. No. 693.... William Bronstein, Senior Warden............
Hiram 0. Gordon, Junior Warden
Frederick A. Morrison, Past Master
San Antonio ....................No. 694.... Owen Leffingwell, Master..·---·············----···
Ross E. Fulbright, Senior Warden
Meudell ·····--·····............. No. 69L.g:~e1l'he: ~':vi~~-----..................
Wilton Sims. Junior Warden

427

Mileage Atlowed

.····

55.90
13.52
13.40

50.50
31.32
52.98
52.98
58.20

64.20
64.20
41.08

37.92

51.28
8.40
66.62
56.98
41.08

Crossroads ·-···················No. 696.... kf.:!r~~~~. ~= ~==-·--·······
67.70
Robert L. Harper, Past Master
Leonard Reavis, Past Master
Saint Elmo ····-·-·············No. 697.... James William Close, Master
Bruce ThO!!Ilas Lawrence, Semor Warden
William McCosh, Junior Warden
James Sammy Pursley, Past Master
Robert H. Blll'I'ows, Past Master
Robert E. Voartmeyer, Sr., Past Master
William, D. Stephens ....No. 698.... Waler S. KisseRn!mh, Master........................ 56.98
Elmer P. Bromley, Senior Warden............... . 56.98
Gordon A. Ellis, Junior Wacden

Name of Lod11e

. No. of Lodge

Repn:oentativea

Mileage Allowed

Vierling Kersey, Past Master.... ·-····--···········- 56.98 ·
John X. Turk, Past Master
William W. Hamikon. Past Master
Bixby Knolls ..................No. 699 .... Bemie A. Codd, Master.................................. 56.98
Henry H. Rawlings. Senior Warden
Ponderosa ·········-········...No. 700.... Ned Hamish, Senior Warden.................... 30.98
·
Obar es A. Richardson, Junior Warden
Santa Ynez Valley ......-No. 701....Walter C. Heinrich, Master.......................... 49.40
.
.
.
L. W. Burchardi, Past Master
Rasemead ··-·····---·-·No. 702 .... George Whaite, Senior Warden.................. 56.98
Westchester ....................No. 703 .... Gerald F. Rader, Master._..............-............. 56.98
.
Robert A. Millhouse, Sr., Senior Warden
Walter W. Hrawk. Junior Warden
es L. Miles, P.M. & Inspector.................. 56.98
Fred Davidson, Past Master
ward D. Ross, Past Master
Orinda ............·-········-·-No. 704.. .. Sherer G. Culver, Past Master
El Cerrito ············-····-···No. 705.... George R. Joy, Master
Lennard Garter, Junior Warden
Ernest R. Mitchell, Past Master
Hunters Point Naval .... No. 706.... Louis J. Wells, Master
Edward J. Ruffin, Junior Warden
Lake Tahoe .:..·---·-·······No. 707.... Not Represented
Seafaring ···········-···········No. 708.... Max A. Owen, Master.................................. 58.06
Lorenzo ..........................No. 709.... Melvin W. McClellan, Master
Cecil L. Biggs. Senior Warden
William R. Parks, Junior Warden
Edward C. Will, P.M. & Inspector
Linford W. Huniter, Past Master
Woodrow H. Patterson, Past Master
Anacapa .........................._N o. 110.... ~~frJ.rr~~:.s~o;w;;;d~~-----········· 50.12
Oscar S. Winter, Junior Warden
·
.
Lewis A. Pugh, :P.M. & Inspector.................. 50.72
Rim of the World ..........No. 711....Rieune A. Stubbs, Master_........................... 63.64
Stanley Hunter, Tlllnior Warden
0. Brown. Past MastnErwln A. Patterson. Put Master
Los Altos __ .....................No. 712.... Egbert W. Laub. Master..•·-····-······---.......... 2.94
·
Raymond W. Bente, Senior Warden
Neil A. DeOontney, Junior Warden
Castro Valley ................No. 713.... Ralph E. Harlan. Master
Ralph E. Shulenberger, Junior Warden
Oetus E. Welch, Junior Warden
Blue Lakes ......................No. 714.... Martin R. Sorensen, Senior Warden
Wilbur L. Rci>erl!S, Junior Warden
Gordon E. Robinson, Past Master
M. Fmnklin Shumaker, Past Master
Magnolia Park ·-···········No. 715.... Clifiton H. Darnell, Senior Warden.............. 56.98
Leroy T. Paul, Junior Warden
Belmont Shore ...:...:........No. 716.... 0mer D. Alcin, Muter.................................... 56.98
Edward H. Lakin. Jr., Senior Warden
Jasper Eugene Fulkerson, Junior Warden
Wayfarer ·····-·········-······No. 717.... John E. Porter, Master.................................... 58.38
George Brewer, Senior Warden
San Lorenzo Valley ......No. 718.... Wllliam E. Frick, Master.. _ .......... ,............ 8.44
Harry L .Worley, Past Master
·
Estero ..............................No. 719....0had Hotton, Master.........·-·····-·.. ·······-··--··· 35.50
Fergus K.. Smith, Junior Warden.
HarOld G. Wht:t:irig, Past Master
Mineral King .................. No. 720.... Harold Dale Wooten, Master........................ 35.04

l·

tr

•

C

428
Namt of Lodge

No. of Lodce

Repreeentativa

429

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
Mile~gc Allowed

·

John Russel Hoehn, Senior Ward~n
Home ·-·~······-·--····-.--No. 721.. .. Arthur D'Avellar, Master..............................
Abraham Marks, Senior Warden
Marvin Shapiro, Junior Warden
George E. Tutt ..............No. 722.... D. Leonard Detrick, Jr., Master.........-...........
Almer W . Laederich, Jr., Senior Warden
Elwood H. Becker, Jr., Junior Warden
Acalanes ........................-No. 723....Robert M. Seay, Senior Warden.·-······--····
Bayard H. Burnett, Past Master
San Ramon V<1lley .....- .No. 724.... James Orr Kyle, Master..·-···········---··--·-·
Saint Johns ···········-··-·····No. 725.... Wayne C. Davidson. Master-----·-···--·
Edwin N. Briggs, Junior Warden
Martin H. Quinn, Past Master
Yucaipa ·····················--No. 726.... Robert Adrain, Master....................................
Verdugo Hills .......•....- ..No. 727.... Richard G. McCall, Master...............·-·····-··
Willis N. Hunt, Senior Warden
Philip B. Stone, Past Master....·-·······-··········
Walter H. Righter, Past Master
Lakewood ........................No. 728.... Alfred L. Gray, Senior Warden.....·-······--·
Floyd 0. Mason, P.M. & Inspector..........·-···
Kenneth L. Hemphill, Past Master................
Centennial ·-··-····-·······- No. 729.... Herbert T . Goins, Master.·-··················-·-· -·
Ralph L. Williams, Senior Warden
Polaris ················-·-·······No. 730.... William C. Neuffer, Jr., Senior Warden......
Two Rivers .................... No. 731....Fred E. Kopplin, Jr., Senior Warden·-·········
Ernest Read, Junior Warden
San Juan ·-··················-··No. 732.... Gamet B. Fleming, Senior Warden.....·-······
Clarence R. Grant, Junior Warden
Golden Empire ··-·-·--··No. 733....A. Ellis Burnitt, Master..................................
Gwinn R. Anderson, Senior Warden
Henry S. Hansen, Junior Warden
Robert K. Titus, Past Master
William A. Tice, Past Master
Joseph Robinson, Past Master
Kit Carson ········-·---···No• 73·L.Samuel A. Hudson, Master-··-··-·--··- ·Oasis of Mara ·-·············No. 735.... Carl Couture, Senior WardeD------~---E. J. Partridge, Junior Warden
Lemon Grove •..............- .No. 736.... Francls L. Patterson, Master-·--····-····John R. Gregory, Senior Warden
Robert F. Housh, Junior Warden
William E. Rife, Past Master
Hillsborough ····--···---No. 737 ....Winslow Wetherbee, Master
Powell Cassidy, Senior Warden
Fred F. Livingston, Junior Warden
George H. Christensen, Past Master
Ernest L. Oaks, Past Master
Arvin -···-·-·--···-·----No. 738..-Robert J. Sabovich, Master-···----··Orestes Righellis, Junior Warden
La Canada ········---··--·.No. 739.... Mark T. Smith, Jr., Master...·-······-··········- ····
Lawrence E. Oakander, Senior Warden
Thomas I. Smith, Jr., Junior Warden
Ralph W. Collins, P.M. & Inspector........ -.
Opportunity ····-··········-··No. 740.... H. A. Zillman, Senior WardeD-----·---··
J. M. Reed, Junior Warden
Tyre -···········-········-······No. 741....~alt!:).11:~~i(.$en~;sty~-----·····--

56.98
5.34
1.70
2.20
1.90
63.18
56.32
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98
8.40
56.98
8.40
8.40

8.40
69.12
68.40

42.78
56.98
56.98
56.98

56.98
Morningside Park -········No. 742.... G. Lawrence R. Pilj, Master
- ···- 56.98
Albert E. Linde, Past Master
Oakwood ···-····-··-···--.No. 743.... Phil M. Brown, Master-··--·······-·-···· ·--· 56.98
Lee H. Behymer, Senior Warden
William B. Neeley, Past Muter·--·-··-·- 56.32
Clarence E. Glaze, Past Master

Name of Lodac

No. of Lodge

Repreaentatiwa

Mileaac All=ed

San Leandro ---····-····No. 744.... Kenneth G. Avery, Junior Warden
Robert G. Allen, Past Master
hn W. Parker, Past Master
Peninsula -··-····--···-··-No. 745.... oseph E. Young, Master
enneth W. Buckley, Senior Warden
Theodore A. Lukas, Junior Warden
Westley P. Jones, Past Master
Soquel ·-········--······-···-·No. 746....Joseph Leroy Tedrowe, Master.................... 7.34
Ellis Frank Aver, Senior Warden
Claude H. Morrison ......No. 747....Thomas L. Walston, Sr..
Elected Representative···········-············-·-·· 67.70
Highland -·-······-··--·····No. 748_.Walter S. Brooks, Master...........·-···-·····-- 61.94
Guy W. Whelchel, Past Master
Merced -··············-·--•.No. 749....
~:j!:is~:.s~e:;t-Md;·······-······--· 25.82

~

l\}1Jli!

Mother Colony ·········--·No. 750.... Herman Lee Roberts, Master..·-·······- ···-·-··
Hamilton ..... _.No. 751....William T. Miazga, Master.........................._
Harvey E. Slocum, Senior Warden
John M. Conway, Junior Warden
P. D. Sprague, Past Master
Luther Burbank - N o . 752._.Douglas L. McCorquodale, Masttt.....•.•..Paul G. Henry, Sen!OI' Warden
Orio E. Winkler, Junior Warden
Stanley K. Coates, P.M. & Inspector.....- .....
L. Melvin Hall, Past Master
Fred Tillmannshofer, Past Master
Lawndale ···--·--·No. 753.... Phill!p E. Graham, Master...........·-······-·······Harold G. Albright, Senior Warden
Morris A. Hooper, Junior Warden
San Pablo ····-·-·---~.No. 754 .._Claude D. Harris, Master
John E. Marvin, Senior Warden
Bobble B. Buerkens, Junior Warden
Fred A. Barringer, Past Master
Golden Bowl ···········--.No. 755.... 0tto J. Christensen, Master....................-····William W. Deuel, Senior Warden
•
Norval F. Garter, Junior Warden
Clayton Valley _____No. 756__ Alan L. Austin, Master.............·-····················
Alfred Pimental, Senior Warden
Everett L. Burks, Junior Warden
Granville A. Adams, Past Master
.
Prank 0. Bertelsen, Past Master
Channel -~·········---No. 757.•.. Seward C. Stroud. Master...·-··---··-·West Covina ····-·-··-···No. 758.... Paul Hillman, Senior Warden.....·-···-···-····
Louis 0. Mason, Junior Warden
El Rancho ·····-·········-·No. 759..-Allen P. Thomason, Senior Warden..-Thoralf Thorsen, Junior Warden
Lakeside -·----··--·····No· 760.... Wyatt H. Dunlap, Jr., Senior Warden..·-···
Guy G. Fears, Junior Warden
E. G. Gimble, Past Master
Josiah W. Roller ........-No. 76L.Warren P. Todd, Master.................·-········-Oswe Trelfa Lund, Junlor Warden
Thelo A. Perrott, Past Master
Coastside -··············-··-No. 762....William Murphy, Master
Glen E. Staley~ Senior Warden
Clarence W. Howell, Junior W~
ChafBe C. Gill, Past Master
Arabic
763_.. Norman A. Barakat, Master----Joaeph Waian. Senior Warden
Heritage ________..No. 76-LJohn D. Bowman. Masttr------ Paul A. Basting. Senior Warden
Dana R. Weller _____No. 765..- Melhourne W. &:ott. Senior Warden....- -

---·--No.

58.06
1.80

4.86
-t.86
56.98

56.98
2.10

7.94
S6.98
58.38
68.80
2.94

56.98
56.98
56.98

430

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreoentativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Milea1e Allowed

Name of Lodge

James H. Kew ................No. 766.... Shennan Davis, Master.................................. 56.98
Oscar E. Hill, Senior Warden
Wm. Robusch, Past Master
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .... No. 767.... Earle A. Gray, Master.................. .................. 56.98
Raymond W. Phebus, Senior Warden
Don C. Seare, Junior Warden
James E. Lewis, Past Master
Paul Nardella, Past Master
Alfred J. Navin, Past Master
Zenith ·····················-·······N o. 768....Ralph Pratt, Master.................. ...................... 56.98
Palmdale ········-·--···········No. 769.... Sanford J. Robertson, Master........................ 50.44
·
Robert D. Rietzke, Senior Warden
Straud McBride, Jr.. Junior Warden
Lake Chabot .....•............No. 770 ....Harold S. Chesnutt, Master
Newell E. Bryan, Junior Warden
Mission Bay ·······-·- ·········-No. 771 .... James L. R~ge~s, Senior Warden.................. 67.70
Avenal ·-··--·········- -·-- ·No. 772.... Gordon McKnight Cameron, Master............ 35.88
Tejoo ··----·······-----··--·····--No. 773.... Louis Borah Smith, Master............................ 41.08
George Ohris Poloynis, Senior Warden
·
Paul Leonard Temple, Junior Warden
H. Guy Walford, Past Master
Waikiki ..........................No. 774.... H. Geo. Conger, Senior Warden.................... 338.19
San· Dleguito ······---····-No. 775....John Wm. Ramsey, Master............................ 64.20
Dudley F . Black. Jr., Senior Warden
East W ·hittier ····--·-- ···No. 776.... Richard M. Lustig, Master...·-·-·················· 58.38
Joseph C. Freeland, Senior Warden
Peter J. Florio, Junior Warden
Pinnacle ·······--············'····No. 777.... Henry E. Leffingwell, Master- ·- ············· 13.06
Ovah V. Sawyer, Junior Warden
Percy H. Dunlap, Past Master
La Mirada .................- ..No. 778 .... Carl E. Jernberg, Master•..·- -·-·-····-···..······• 58.06
Burns, H. Hamlett, Senior Warden
.
James B. Balcer, Pallt Master
Five Points - ---·-······-·------No. 779.... Howard Charles Goldblatt. Master.............. 56.98
Clifford Leroy Davis, Senior Warden
Gordon Jacobson, Junior Warden
Riviera ··············"·--·-·····No· 780....Byron S. Warner, Master................... ........... 56.98
F. Mike Hopwood, Senior Warden
Mark R. Throsel, Junior ·Warden
Richard R. Kennedy, Pa.st Master
John A. Jackson, Past Master
.
Thomas J. McKimson, Past Master
Rolling Hills -····--- :...No. 781....Boyd M. Corwin, Senior Warden................ 56.98
Arnold E. Higgins, Junior Warden
Silverado ......................,.No. 782....Romayne H. Bantz, Muter----···--·· ··-''- 3.26
.
Oharles P. Bazemore, JJJDi,ar Warden
Lowe R. Snyder, Past Muter
Homer R. Smith, Past Master
MoJave ······--·-----N o. 783.... J~s~~~ar ~amm-·-------··-·-·---- 47.48
Leland Stanford •...........No. 784....Ray W. White, Senior Warden.----·-··-····· 28.64
Gharles Ross Arment. Junior Warden
William F. George, Past Master
Paramount ......................No. 785.... Henry E . Wathen. Senior Warden.·-··-······· 56.98
WlllJBm Leon Derr, Junior Warden
Rio Linda ......................,.No. 786.... John R. Peterson, Senior Warden................ 8.40
Westminster .;;~..-:.:.•......~. 787....
~c:l
~=58.06
Sierra -· -···--······--No. 788.... Francis Edward Sheldon, Master.................. '37.98
LliDton Forrester, Senior Warden
Oak ' Plains - ··- ··········-- No. 789.... George Albert Moore, Master·-·-····-········· . 8.40
William Cla)l't~n Green, Senklr Warden

1;,1:..

.

. .......

j:::

No. of Lod1e

Milea1e AIJowed

Granada Hills _ ......,....No. 790 ....LeRoy Witmer Schlaegel, Master.................. 55.10
Leve Simon Jacobson, Senior Warden
Gen. Henry Arnold ........No. 791....Albert E. Taylor, Master.....---······················· 31.68
Clyde B. Tyler, Sellilor Warden
.
James 0. Payne, Past Master
Millbrae - -············-·······No. 792.... S. 0. McDonald, Master
.
Carl F. Peterson, Senior Warden

~~~:i;oc~=·J
~~~:M~:1er.................. 56.98
1
Mt. Wilson ....................No. 79L.t~ !W!~ii:fd~rM·a~te:~-~~~~~-- ---······· 58.20
Alfred W.

Maya --·························N o. 793....

Talley, Senior Warden
Henry M. Welch, Junior Warden
American River ..............No. 795.... Walter E. Moller, Master.............................. 10.28
Robert E. Green, Senior Warden
Alfred L. Prevost, Junior Warden
Tlla Pass ............................U D ..... Leo J. Wilson, Master.................................... 56.98
Golden Valley ................No. 7% .... Noel W. Roser, Master

Total ----------···~-·---·-···-····-····-············.$ 34,786.97

.··-·-·--· ··

.. .

Repreoentativeo

431

..

..
~~·

.

•.•.
'

LIST OF CONS TITUE NT LODGES

Lodge

No.

1 California •....................... I
2 Western Star•.......·-·····- · 2
3 Tehama ·-························ 3
4 Benicia ··········-···········-····· 5
5 Tuolumn e ........................ 8
6 Corinthia n ··············--······ 9
7 San Jose···-···············-······ 10
8 Yount ................ ................ 12
9 Nevada ............................ 13
10 Temple ······················-······ 14
11 Eureka ····················-····-·· 16
12 La Parfalte Union. ........... 17
13 Mountain Shade................ 18
14 San Joaquin ...................... 19
15 Washing ton .................... 20
16 Hawaiian .......................... 21
17 Occidental ........................ 22
18 Madison ······················-··· 23
19 Mariposa .......................... 24
20 Georgetown .................... 25
21 El Dorado ........................ 26
22 Trinity •............................. 27
23 Golden Gate .................... 30
24 Gold Hill ············· ··--··-- 32
25 Ophir ---·········· ·········--·· 33
26 San Diego ·····-·····- -····- 35
'1:1 Howard ······ · · · · · - - · 37

Members

Charter
!Hued

Degree
Fees

A.1£11.
Feea

Du ea

!nit.

Pasaed

Raiaed

Per Capita

100
100
100
75
75
75
75
125
50
75
50
100
75
125
125
175
100
78
50
50
75
125
100
50
50
140

20.00
20.00
10.00

18
15
15
12
12
18
12
18
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
12
16
12
12
15
12
15

7
12
27
7
10
17
8
15
6
4
7
3
2
14
21
5
8
10
2
2
6
16
7
2
3
13
3

7
7
24
7
10
15
10
16
6
3
8
1
2
19
22
5

8
3
21
7
12
20
9
15
6
4
7
3
1
21

-1

7
9
4
1
10
10
5
1
1

1336.50
539.00
2349.00
653.50
760.75
1333.50
1503.75
1536.50
493.75
676.50
1017.50
317.75
145.25
2295.25
2556.25
1200.25
1797.00
934.50
565.50
171.75
749.00
454.00
1608.50
324.75
230.50

12

16

2953.25

2

2

9
23

11

492
193
828
233
271
470
547
567
179
244
372
118
51
826
913
435
657
334
207
61
279
152
588
118
90

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853

1073

1853

261

185f

so

575
824
437
933
114
363
226
52
118
81
277
101
676
748
99
192
971
337
90
676
374
71
121
549
96
113
236
1194
40
81
133
79
107
519
104

1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856

100
100
75
125
75
100
125
50
50
60
75
50
75
75
50
75
75
100
50
100
50
50
85
75
50
50
100
75
50
50
50
60
55

-

2.00
5.00
5.00
6.00

2.00
-

15.00
5.00

-

10.00
10.00
25.00

5.00
-

5.00
10.00
1.00
4.00

-1.00

JS

12

11
8
4
1
7
JO
7

"

I.I

Capita Payments, Contributions.
With Membership, Charter Dates, Fees, Dues, Degrees conferred, Per
for Masonic Homes, and Degree Fees.
50c
plus
Lodge
Grand
Column ti.tied "G. L. Per Capita" Includes $2.25 for
$25.00, G. W . Memorial Contribution of $1.00 and Ca"foml a
of
tion
Contribu
Homes
Includes
tions"
s Contribu
"Membertion
titled Contribu
Column
of $9.00.
l Temple
Memoria
Statistics apply to the year ending June 30, A. L. 5959.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetlcal List of Lodges page 470:
G. L.

30
5

Me111bers

Endow.
Contrib.

245.00
445.00
970.00
245.00
350.00
595.00
305.00
525.00
210.00
165.00
245.00
105.00
70.00
490.00
735.00
200.00
280.00
350.00
95.00
70.00
235.00
560.00
245.00
70.00

1660.00
290.00
3417.35
710.00
197.00
602.00
1126.50
1144.10
72.00
228.00
334.50
176.50
115.00
561.00
2288.25
1043.00
1410.00
672.05
428.00
155.75
759.51
54.00
779.00

105.00
530.00

9-f.50
3484.00

69f.50

IOS.00

415.50

15-42.25
2301.00
1195.25
2646.75
328.00
996.25
635.00
143.00
328.25
226.75
781.00
266.25
1887.00
2050.25
248.25
540.50
2687.50
983.75
249.75
1881.50
1038.50
199.50
329.50
1536.75
267.00
321.75
661.50
3203.25
110.00
224.25
363.25
220.25
291.75
1441.25
280.50

295.00
630.00
95.00
1675.00
210.00
35.00
245.00

-475.00
3651.50
1665.13
1893.80
13.00
496.50
488.00
34.00
266.00
65.00
606.91
244.50
1031.00
1800.00
272.12
648.05
2305.00
826.00
66.50
1398.00
472.50
50.00
68.50
1112.00
201.00
99.00
8.00
2951.50
27.00

Contrib.

....

-~-·---

-="""---=-=--------=-=

28 Santa Cruz ........................ 38
29 Sacrame nto ...................... 40
30 Martinez ··············· ··--···· 41
31 Los Angeles· ··········-··- ····· 42
32 Hiram ················ ·······-·-···· 43
33 Mount Moriah..............- .. 44
34 Crescent ·············· ···-·····- 45
35 Texas -·····················-·-·-· 46
36 F<.d>estown ·········-········-· 50
37 Illinoistown ···············-····· 51
38 Suisun .............................. 55
J:I Volcano ···············-··········· 56
40- Santa Rosa.·-····-·············· 57
41 Union ··--········· ···-·-··-··· · 58
42 Gravel Range ··········-· -- 59
43 Plumas -···············-··········· 60
44 Live Oak •......................... 61
45 Natoma -·-·········· ·-········· 64
46 Amador --···--···· ·-··-····· 65
47 Morning Star -·-·····-···· ·· 68
48 Enterpris e --·-··-···· -······ 10
49 Bear MountaJ.n -·············· 76
50 Calavera s ·····-··-··- ··-··- 78
51 Humboldt .......................... 79
52 lone ···-····························· 80
53 Yolo .................................. 81
54 Vesper ···········-········-··-··· 84
55 Naval ············ ·····-···-- - 87
56 Rose's Bar ·····-········· ···-·- 89
57 North Star--················-··· 91
58 St. Helena ........................ 93
59 Henry Clay ····················- 95
60 Hornltos -············ ······--·- 98
61 Yosemite -·····················- 99
62 Clay ---·-····-····-········---101

.

90
50

1.00
10.00

-

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
5.00

-

10.00
5.00
10.00

-

2.50
25.00
5.00
5.00

-5.00

3.00
10.00

-

10.00
5.00
5.00
1.00

10.00

--

16
15
15
15
12
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
16
12
15
12
15
12
15
12
24
12
16
12
12
12
12
16
16
12

7
17
2
45
6
1
7

-

4
2
12
4

14
18
3
6
12
20
5
10
12
2
1
12
1
7
7
18

-

. IS

5
1
1
1
12

12

-

3
40
7
3
4

-

3
2
10
1
10
16
3
6

28
5
40
7
5
8

-

5

-

11

-

21
5
8
11
3
2
12
1
3
6
19

15
17
3
6
16
16
6
10
9
2
2
14
1
1
5
12

-

-

4
1
l
1
13

9
1
1
1

14

-

11

-

,

-

140.00
70.00
420.00
140.00
490.00
630.00
105.00
210.00
420.00
700.00
175.00
350.00
420.00
70.00
35.00
420.00
35.00
245.00
270.00
680.00
25.00
175.00
35.00
60.00
35.00
420.00
25.00

266.50
203.00
75.00
709.75
164.50

"

~

I.I

Loda:e

No.

63 Oroville ············-···-·-·--.103
,64 Lexington ·····················--104
"§5 Arcata ·········-············-···-106
66 Pajaro ···············-······---110
67 Chico ···-·········-·············--111
·"68 Summit ·················-·····---112
69 Eden ---·············-··-····---113
7.0 Concord ··············--···---1 17
71 Fidelity ·········-················.120
-'12 ·Alamo ···························--122
73 Sotoyome ·····-··············-.123
74 Table Mountain ..............i24
.75 Lafayette ·····-·-·············-126
.76 Hermann ·················-······-127
77 Visalia ·····················-·······128
._78 Nicolaus ............................ 129
79 Woodbrid ge ·······-····-····.131
80 Sincerity ..........................132
.81 Vacaville ......................... .134
~2 Valley ·····-········-·············13S
..83. Paci.fie ............................•.136
.84 Crockett ···········-··············.! 39
85 Curtis ·············-················-140
86 Grafton ............................! 41
87 Franklin ···············-······-···143
88 Oriental ............................144
~9 Vitruvlus .......................... 145
90 Abell •............................... 146
.!>l Eel River ···········-············.147
92 Lassen ·····················-······· 149
93 ·Molino •.............................150
94 WOOdland ........................156
95 Keystone ······-···-··-···---16-l
96 Harmony ·····-·················-- 164

.........................:nii§
.......- ...-167
-···-···..:.:
Alameda
98
:
• ·99 Redwood City .................•168
100 Mission ·····················-·····169
·--f01 Elk Grove ······----···········173
f02 Orytown •........................• 174
' i03 Anttooh ·················-···-··-17S
: 104 Phoenix •.........................-178
l ·105 Mendocino .....................-179
' ·106 Petaluma •........................• 180
'··107 Russian River -··············-181
: fog Arbuckle · -························182
;. 109 'Clear Lake .....................-.183
_ f16 Sierra Valley •......,............184

'[."'.97 Excelsior

111 Claiborne ···········-············.185
I 12 Evening Star ·-···············-186
113 Keith •............................-187
: 114 Oakland ············-··········-188
115 Northern Light ·····-·········190
· 116 Marin --··-·······- -·······-191
:117 Santa Barbara .................. 192
··118 Ferndale --······················.193
! 119 Mountain View ........... -.194
'120 Buckeye ••.........................•195
121 San Simeon ·····-·········-···196
'122 Wilmingto n ···-················.198
1.23 Hartley ·················-········-199
· 124 Truckee ............................200
· 125 Si.Iveyville ·········-············.201
'126 Pentalpha ..........................202
127 Confidence ........................203
· 128 Salinas ............... ::.............204
129 Olivet -··-········-··········,···.20S
· · • 130 Stanislaus ........................206
131 Anaheim •.......................,...207
132 Rio Vista ........................ _208

.

Membete

379
641
347
427
592

'58
460

385
572
456
239
274
233
182

576
112
196
97
283
96
561
511
92
111
137
352
128
356
247
244
164
299
36
29

443
233
672
636
146
63
393
749
125
338
129
84
127
35
77
69
195
834
100
545
356
92
375
145

95
665
231
148
154
479
84
654
138
669
475
183

Charter
Leued

1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
.1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
.1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864

· 1864

. 1864
. 1864
1864
1865
' 1865
1865
1866
" 1866
1866
1866
1867
. 1867
1867
1867
. 1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870

Degree
Peee

Alf'ii.

Pue

Duee

lnit.

Pa11ed

Raieed

5.00
1.00
1.00

12
23
3

8
14
6
6
9
4
11

10
25
6
8
8
4
8

65

100
50

-

50
50

2.50

15
16
·15
18
i5
12
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
12
18
15
15
16
15
12
12
25
15
15
12
12
12
15
15
16

50

5.00

12

25.00

. 15

5

·12
18
: · 12
12
. 12
12
16
12
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
. 18
15
12
12
12
12
20
15
15
12
15
18
12
15
18

17
20
9
2
2
13
33
3
10
3
1
5
1

11

7

2
.1

1
1
6

150

75
75
90

50
105

75
100

75
75

-

5.00
-

10.00
15.00

-

5.00
1.00

80

75
100

75
50
50
100

-

20.00

-

5.00
5.00
5.00

75
50

12.00

100

20.00

75
50
50
75

25.()()

100

50
50
50

100

. 75

roo

·100
50
50

75
75
100
80

75
50
• 50
50
50

50
50

75
65
100

75
50
100

75

5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
1.00

-

-

1.00

•, 5.00
1.00

50:00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

5.00
1.00
10.00

-

5.00

-

2.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

--

5.00
5.00

50
125

-

65

10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00

90
90
100

75
75
50

-

75
75

-

100

1.00

5
13
3
10
4
16
13
3
8
2
1
8
2
1
3
13
2
10

5

825.75
100.25

35.00

-

77.00

-

58.00

2

. 2

\\72..25

\75.00

966.00

15
14
8
·4
.1
12
29
4

·17
9

689.75
1811.25
1723.50
400.50
171.75
1079.25

620.00
775.00
~ '315.00
70.00
70.00
530.00
1255.00
105.00
375.00
130.00
35.00
225.00
35.00

514.00
1460.00
' 1327.50
396.50
130.00
989.73
1640.00
91.00
369.38
86.00
173.24
32.00
100.00
27.00
117.50
125.00
1385.50
48.00
1355.75
938.57
143.00
760.58
301.72
50.00
1597.50
126.00
664.50
168.00
1400.00
254.00
949.40
159.52
985.50
1036.75
388.50

7

-

-

2
3
10
3
11

7
5

3
3
12
1
14
8
4
1
6

5

3
3
11
5
14
5
l
24
2

6
2

5

7

5

3
2

3
3

2

7

-

I
4
11
2
10

7
2
20
3

1

1

17

17

7

7
4
1

12
34
4

-

-

17
4
6
1
5
8
23
3

11

3
2
8

-

1

-

686.50
1391.28
780.50
865.00
1326.77
45.00
475.50
802.00
1311.00
728.90
154.00
418.58
104.00
389.50
1198.52
67.00
288.50
198.00
39.00

1

5

-

1064.00
1805.50
969.25
1176.75
1567.25
167.75
1280.25
1071.25
1586.50
1285.50
662.25
764.75
641.50
501.75
1588.00
307.25
539.50

7

7
12
11
8

-

-

Endow.
Contrib.

2

7
13
1.3
10
4
1
10

1

Members
Contrib.

420.00
830.00
105.00
175.00
455.00
105.00
400.00
140.00
655.00
530.00
105.00
330.00
120.00
35.00
355.00
70.00
.. 35.00
105.00
505.00
95.00
375.00
245.00
235.00
35.00
.70.00
35.00
70.00
200.00
385.00
70.00
140.00
280.00

7
6
1
2
1
2
5
11
2
4
8

G. L.
Per Capita

5
7
1
5
3
23
3
12
20
9

2
4
10
1
12
6
2
20
3
1
17

5

-

8

6
8
26
3
15
15
8

275.75
802.25
270.00
1511.75
1402.50
268.00
306.25
380.75
969.00
365.00
985.25
702.25
668.00
454.50

2067.75
338.25
943.75

352.50
234.00
359.00
97.25
206.25
195.75
539.00
2292.50
263.75
1515.50
961.25
258.00
1084.25
401.25
250.50
1866.00
649.25
375.75
414.50
1330.50
247.25
1865.00
385.75
1864.00
1347.25
524.50

-

105.00
130.00
385.00
175.00
515.00
225.00
35.00
840.00
70.00
60.00
620.00
140.00
210.00
35.00
175.00
330.00
890.00
. 130.00
445.00
645.00
245.00

266.50
634.00
47.00
327.50
391.00
1098.00
130.50
726.00
333.50
510.00
106.00
665.00

.

·1

No.
Loda•
l33 King Davfd's.-············-···209
134 Friendship ··········-----2 10
135 San Benito ·············-·········211
136 South San Francisco ...... 212
137 San Buenaventura ·--.....2H
138 Oak Grove ·············-··-··215
139 Doric -···-···--··--- --.216
HO Monterey ············-···-·····217
141 Mosaic ·········--·····-··-········218
H2 Speranza ltaliana ·····-····219
143 Downey -·····-···-····-· ··220
l+t Inyo ----···-·--· ···221
145 Roseville ·-·--···-··-····· 222
116 Bakersfield ··-·-·····-···.2 24
H7 Brooklyn ·-··-······--··-·· 225
148 San Mateo ··········-·-·-······226
149 Athens -·--···············-·-···228
150 Solano ··--·-··········-········-229
151 North Bullte ·-·-·····--·-···23 0
152 Covelo -····--·······-·- ···231
153 Jonesville ·--··-····-···- 232
154 Calistoga -----·---.. 233
155 Hope -··-·--·----- -..234
156 Surprise Valley •......- ... 235
157 Hills Ferry -···········---23 6
158 Guadalupe ··------···-···2 37
t59 Colusa - · - - - -..•. 240
160 Santa Ana ···-·-·····-···--2 41
ffil Magnolia --············-·-·· ·242
Ui2 Eucalyptus ·········-··-······243
l63 Alcatraz ···········-···--- -244
164 Laurel
---245
165 Pomona - - - -- .--.246
M1
l66 Praao
2f8
167 Alturaa

Memben

168 Adfn ·····-······-·········-·······250
169 Landmark ······-···--···2 53
170 Reading -····-····-··--.25f
171 Welcome --·····-·-·--·· 255
._2$6
172 Lodi
173 Penrhyn ········-···-···-··- --258
174 Evergreen ·········--··--··--259
175 King Solomon's ·--·---260
176 Tuscan ···········-·--···- .261
177 Lompoc -·-····--··--- .262
178 Hespertan --···-··-----······.264
179 Orland -···--···--·-··- ··.265
180 North East ......................266
181 Galt -·-····-··-····-·· ·--·-··267
182 Durant ·····-··-··············-·268
183 Olive Branch ·····--·--··-··269
184 Snow Mountain -············271
185 Pasadena -··········-····-:1 .72
186 Anchor -·-····-··--···- ·-273
187 Arroyo ---···-····-····· --274
188 Oakdale ·············-······-·····275
189 Selma -··--···········-·· ·····277
190 Southern California ........278
191 Hanford ·-···-·-··-···-··- --279
192 Madera -····-··----·-·. .280
193 Mount Shasta ···-··- .........281
194 Calayoml -···---·-····-... 282
195 South West ··········-········•283
196 San Miguel ......................285
197 Paso Robles -···········-····28 6
198 Winnedumah . -............287
199 Maxwell -···--····---2 88
200 Elsinore ······-···--..·--...289
201 East Gate ..........- ............290
202 Santa Paula __ .. ___ ,291
203 Los Gatos ·······-···-·-·····2 92
204 Orange Grove ................293

lOS

433
734
177
235
439

585
463
309
244
253
841
161
445
802
520
617
195
576
243
75
161
126
120

75
155
201
156
581

473
540
573
257
434

73l
181

Chatter
INUed

De11rec

1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
J877
1877
1878
1878

100
75
50
95
100
100
100

A ffii.
Peca

Peca

1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

nu..

lnit.

Pa-d

Raieed

13
16
8
3
li
7
2
10

li
15
8
6
9
8
3
9
13
1
41
1
29
11
6
16
3
12
6

11

100
99
75

10.00

50

S.00

15
12
12
15
18
18
18
20
18
12
12
15
15
18
15
18
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
15
15
12
15
J2

18
H
9

22
17

-

1.00
10.00

-

75

-

75
100
125

-

50

5.00
10.00

75
100

-

75
100
50

75
75
50
75

50
50
50
50
75

50
75

10.00

-

-

1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

10.00
1.00

-

11
3

34
1
25
11
8
18
1
12
7

-

6
4
3
1
1

5

7
7
8
9
6
7
16
1
33
1
25
H

5
13
4
13
9
1
3
2

-

5
3
4
1

5

-

1

11
H
10

7
2
13
16
13
8

6
3
12
li
16

7

7

8
19

3

13

115
80
6S

-3.00
I.DO

18
18

50

2.00

12

2

'l

50
90
90

1.00

16
12
18
12
12
18
18
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
12
15
20
15
12
15
12
18
15 .
12
12
12
12
15
18
12
15
12
18
18
18

1
10

2
6
9
6
1
27

15

lS

4

7
12
5

G. L.
Per Capita

Membera

Endow.
Contrib.

1220.50
2045.25
509.75
607.25
1230.00
1594.25
1251.25
842.75
700.00
667.75
2363.00
443.00
1294.50
2211.25
1418.75
1686.00
525.00
1599.00
690.25
193.50
451.25
347.25
339.25
201.00
410.75
565.25
431.50
1616.50
1325.25
1519.75
J529.25
726.00
1247.00

480.00
630.00
280.00
105.00
515.00
270.00
70.00
350.00
410.00
105.00
1340.00
85.00
875.00
385.00
305.00
755.00
35.00
470.00
295.00

870.00
638.50
374.50
489.75
1032.25
1284.00
177.00
452.00
295.00
581.50
2317.67
326.00
556.25
1451.50
819.00
1800.00
402.50
274.00
321.50
50.00
270.00
260.00
212.00

2039.SO

Contrib.

-

201.00
190.00
105.00
35.00
60.00
175.00
105.00
505.00
510.00
615.00
350.00
245.00
680.00
490.00

342.00
948.00
144.00
1274.95
1719.50
1358.50
965.00
281.00
148.00

524.00

315.00

1669.66
13.00

2g7 .'25

70.00

~.00

317.50
757.25
600.75
1092.25
385.25
2086.50
1202.50
251.25
591.75
1107.50
405.50
151.25
260.25
1240.50
890.75
122.25
1562.00
1784.75

35.00
350.00
280.00
285.00
70.00
1030.00
105.00
35.00
415.00
350.00
70.00

93.10
603.00
221.48
646.60
21.00
1685.46
403.50

--

116
275
212

406
151
742
449
97
2C5
403
152
59

94
456
323

43
570
633
174
215
241
468
235
283
154
69
570
76
292
249
66
146
735
411
373
331

1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889

50
50
75
115
50
75
75
50
~o

50
80
75
75
115
125
65
75
80
75
100
50
90
50
105
50
75
100
75
75
75

50
75
75

5.00

-

3.00

-

1.00

-

2.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

-

1.00

-

-

6.00
1.00
12.00

-

3.00

-

5.00
1.00
10.00
3.00

-

10.00
-

-1.00

7
6
2
28
3
1
9
10
2

-

3
5
2
2
5
18
1
7
5
3
7
10
3
1
30
10
11
2
l
5
7
10
19
13

4

-

10
7
2

-

-1

7
10
5

-

24
2

-

9
7

-

3

4

4

5

2
1
9
16
3
8
6
3
5
9

4

4

-

25
6
13
8
1
2

1
8
21

5

673.25
1249.25
657.75
798.25

4

434.50

-

19
5
13
11
2
3

6

6

9

10
13
13

18
13

484.75
59950

7
5
3
5
12

182.50
1636.00
221.75
834.50
703.00
185.50
411.50
1979.75
1151.00
1059.25
930.00

105.00
200.00
95.00
70.00
225.00
730.00
60.00
270.00
175.00
105.00
245.00
375.00
105.00
35.00
1075.00
375.00
385.00
95.00
35.00
175.00
245.00
350.00
765.00
455.00

437.40
3398.00
102.50
195.50
806.95
372.50
27.00
1233.55
1425.36
408.91
261.50
568.50
1953.29
253.00
599.00
313.00
25.00
1713.79
427.00
563.43
130.00
309.50
1899.56
939.62
882.35
412.50

...

\H
'I

lodge

No.

Membera

205 ·Travtt -····················-···----294
206 Mt. Jackson ...................... 295
207 Sliver Gate ...................... 296
208 OWlsmuir •...................... _:297
209 Liberty --·-···········----······-·..299
21 O Redlands ···········-··········---300
211 Ontario ·····-·················---.301
212 Santa Lucia ·················-·302
213 Porterville ..........•.........•...303
214 Reedley •...........................JOf
215 Azusa ..............................•.305
216 Ashlar .,............................306
217 Santa Monica ·····-···········lf.Yl
218 Monrovia ........................308
219 Delano ..............................309
220 Sisson .............................. 310
221 Loe Banos ........................312
222 Tehachapi ........................313
223 ,T emescal ······················---31.f
224 Norwalk •.,.........................315
225 ·Sanger -························-··.316
226 Fallbrook ..........................317
227 Emanuel ...,......................318
228 Hollenbeck ......................319
229 South Gate ......................320
230 Alisal -·······-······-······--....321
231 Alhambra ........................322
232 Whittier --·················---323
233 C.orona ..•.........................32.f
234 Consuelo ..........................325
235 Needles ·-·····················-··-326
2.36 LOng Beach ·················----32'1
237 Redondo ----······--··-·····328
238 Vallee de Praoc:e..............329 ·
239 .~uea ------------..330

148 '
123
1296
265

240 Pacific Grove ..................331
241 San Pedro -···········-···-···332
242 Alta ---···················-----.333
2.43. Covina .............................33+
244 West Gate ......................335
245 Fruitvale ..........................336
246 Carquinez ........................337
247_ San Jacinto ...............:......338
248 Fullerton ··-················-·····339
249 Oxnard ·····--······-·-··········..341
250. San Fernando ·····-···········343
251 Starr King ·-·············-···-··-344
252 Brentwood ......................345
253. Palo Al·to ..........................346
254 McKinley ·····-···············--347
255 San Bernardino ..............348
256. Sequoia ···-·············----···-·m
257. Palestine ......................:•..351
258. Sunset ---················-··-····352.
259 Pinole ..............................353
260 Presidio ............................35.f
26i Hollywood ............ _........355
262. Mill Valley ......................356
263 Buena Park ...........:.-.......357
264 Golden State ·····-········-···.358
265 Loyalton -···-····-·············359
266 San Francisco ..................lfi<>
2fl7. F.Qrt Bragg ......................361
268 Charlfy ·········-··············-·362.
269 Berkeley ---~----·············363
270 Willits ··~·-·······················-~
271 Las Palmas ......................366
272 ~cruth Pasacjena ..............3f>7
273. Unity ·············-·········-······-368·
274 Ocean Park ······-···'·-~: ....369
275 Amity .:....:....... ______________.370

363
489
511
161
510
167
341
349
401
327
247
113
154
205
287
395

344 ·
163
93
879
569
172
623
821

445
333
357
626

703
129
200

289
511
131
464
1226
820
205
113
392
446
721
523
150
752
495
922
1018
525
345
177
468
1262
4~9

308
696
99
279.
154
183
617
158
1064
630
6.12
531
399

Charter
Iasued

Degree
Pe ea

1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897

80 .
50
150
50
75
75
75
75
50
75
115
55
125
100
100
50
75
75
75
100
75
75
50
100
100
100
100
115
90
75
125
125
100

1897

125

1897
1897
1897
1998
1899
1899.
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1904.
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905

75

75
125

53
115
215
100
75
50
75
100
125
100
65
100

75
75
100
100
100
75
100
125
100
100
125
50
100

75
100

75
75

so·
100
100
115
1.00

Afil.
Peea

Duea

1.00
5.00

-

-

-

-

-

15.00

2.00
1.00
2.00

-

-5.00
5.00

25.00
-

1.00
25.00

12.00
-

-

25..00
5.00

25.00
5.00

-

10.00

-

·

10.00

-

5.00

-

10.00
1.00
10.00

20.00
15.00

-

10.00

-

-

5.00

-

5.00

1.00
$.00

moo
-

1.00

·

Per Capita

G.L.

Membera
Contrib.

-...
2·
22
8

l!ndow.
Conttib. •

405.50
340.75
3604.25
729.50
1026.00
1380.00
1425.75
453.75

231.50
285.50
2698.80 "
392.50 ·
825.00
1473.90
674.85

Paged

3
3

1.

3

16
4
20
20
10
5
16

16
8
13
20
16
4
15

20
22
2
11

3

3

4
H
8
10
10
4
1

21

6
11 .
8
10
10
4
2
8
6
25

7
3

4

l
6
6

6
9

15
18
15
15
12
15
12
15
15
15
16
15 •
15
18
18
12
12
18
15
12
12
15
12
15
18
12
18
16
15
15
12
16
12

36

15

-

15

Raised

lnit.

3
7
12
11
6
10
4

3
7
3
1
8
4
6
19
10
10

7

7

12

9

34.
3

1

5
16
6
30
30
11
2
2
8
22
40
6
2
10
13
41
H
5
11
8
4
20
13
11
6

14

H

15
15
18

9
12
9

-

1737.00

32

2021.so·

1360.00

1359.97
1565.85:

35.00

662.50

3
3
17
13
13 ·

1f

-

1

15
24
12
15
18
18
12
15
12
18
15
15
15
12
15
15
18
18
15
15
18
15
18
12
18
12
18
24
12
12
18
15

10
11

3

5

16 .
20
14
9

23

H

7
7

8
23
5

105.00
105.00
735.00
H0.00
725.00
800.00
485.00
175.00
560.00
105.00
270.00
420.00
410.00
235.00
350.00
140.00
105.00
280.00
245.00
805.00
175.00
155.00
60.00
465.00
140.00
260.00
765.00
880.00
525.00
385.00
245.00
470.00

5
12

7

144450
462.75
949.25
974.75
1110.50
908.75
662.50
322.75
424.00
573.00
790.00
1152.50
961.00
458.25
255.25
2327.25
1509.50
478.75 .
1759.75
2278.00
1219.50 .
934.75
986.50

348.25
538.25

11

&J7.5~

11

1386.50

5

6

371.75

31

33
41

1339.75
3365.50
224J,50
567.50
315.25
1110.25
1261.00
2054.50
1429.00
411 ..00

33

q

5
4

13
16
32

13
l
15
10
40
12
8

7
8
6
18
8
13
6

7

i

9
4
8
2
22

7
4

7
1
19
13
5

7
7

H
5
4
H
13
30
13
l
14
9
45
15
8
8
5
6
19

7
12

7

-

7

8
6
6

3
24
15
9
6
9

209qSO
1376.75
2565.25
2793.75
1451.00
961.00
461.00
1286.50
3423.00
1199.50
855.50
1905.50
264.00
763.50

44750
511.75 ·
1676:50
i32.25
2916.75
1763.50
1700.5.Q
1452.25.
1108.50

-

..
Vo)

00

~

330.00
895.25
249.00
720.96

345.04
885.71
1016.00
510.50
138.50
165.00
410.00
222.50
841.34

35150
122.00 .
2961.21
1717.41
344.00
1261.60
2356.20
983.24
558.00
875.50
292.70

200.00
585.00
210.00
1100.00
1175.00
410.00
130.00
70.00

330.00
870.00
1450.00
260.00

.10.00

343.S().
1061.54
266.00
1056.80
2636.0Q
1684.95
414.50
231.00
87i.50
821.00.
1647.04
1086.50

•:too

375.00
480.00
1585.00
515.00
200.00
385.00
280.00
H0.00
825.00
480.00
435.00
260.00

1886.50
784.00
1178.05
2208.50
1078.33
1127.21
175.50
601.00
3209.25~
932.50
647.50
1521.26

340.00
315.00
H0.00
365.00
70.00
805.00
490.00
415.00
470.00
340.00

630.50
40.75

388.59
437.50
52.00.
2362.50.
1273.87
18(5.ti5.
1163.76
805.00 ·

..
Vo)

IO

Lodge

No.

276 Le Progres de L'Oceanle 371

Membcra

7H
470
490
202
480
429
242
40i
245
341
501
624
150
516
292
389
747
682
142
115
822
493
568
420
458
1032
441
677
675
246
907

Charter
1..ued

°C

Affil.
Peca

Dues

Jnlt.

p._d

Raised

Per Capita

G.L

175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100
75
75
100
65
125
75
100
100
125
75
50
100
100
100
75
75
100
100
100
75
75
100
75
105
125
125

Members
Contrib.

10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

15
16
17
12
12
18
15
12
15
15
15
15
20
18
12
15
15
15
12
15
15
15
15
15
15
12
15
11\
12
15
15
12
12
15
12

Endow.
Contrlb.

13
26
H
7
2
21
10
8
4
13
28
5
7
14
8

12
24
16
4
3
14
11
6
4
10
26
7
7
18
6
I
9

11
15
17
4
4
12
12
3
3
9
24
10
6
21
7
1
6
13
10
5
12
18
6
9
10
21
7
8

455.00
1010.00
540.00
245.00
70.00
810.00
410.00
280.00
190.00
480.00
1155.00
175.00
245.00
515.00
155.00
200.00
210.00
1110.00
280.00
245.00
315.00
620.00
235.00
420.00
410.00
560.00
140.00
315.00
855.00
165.00
420.00
620.00
140.00
1190.00

H70.00
1019.80
1409.00
212.00
349.00
881.50
325.25
1881.25
534.50
369.46
1054.81
1284.10
451.00
1559.00
35150
1108.00
1505.00
539.50
195.50
237.00
2530.87
1229.50
1258.18
897.00
932.00
2546.74
1011.50
1818.00
1544.61
940.25
832.63
117.00
1709.34
1935.40

515.00

1570.86

75
175
75
50
50
75
125
50
80
120
.75
75
125
100
100
50
75
50
65
55
75
50
75

308 Moneta ----····- -405
309
:no Burbank
La Mea --····-··---··
_ _ _·····406
_4a/

602
848
632

1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910

311 Sierra Madre ····-············408
312 Honolulu -······-········- -···409
313 Oiarter Rock ..................410
314 Perris ~-·--····--····-·-'111
315 Calexico -·····················-·412
316 Arlington -··-······-··· ·-·-Ut
317 Silver Trowel ............ _.415
318 Lindsay -···--········· ··--416
319 Clovis -············--··-·········417
320 Elysian --·-·---·····-•ta
321 Upland ·-····-··········· ··---419
322 Kennan ---·-····--·· ····420
323 Inglewood ··-··~·-·•·········-421
324 Eagle Rodt ·-····--··-···--··-422
325 York ·················-··--·······423
326 Exeter ----···-·--·· ····--424
327 Holtville _........................42S
328 Midway ..........................426
329 Chino Valley ···-···········4 27
330 San Dimas ---······--·· -428
331 Pittsburg ···-·-················-429
332 McCloud .......................-430
333 Alpha ·············--············-431
334 Hammonton ·-···-···--·-·4 33
335 Maricapa -···--····-··-·· ···-434
336 Fairmount ·-···-·-······- ·-43'
337 Claremont ...•..•......•..........436
338 Lancaster ·····-····-·--··· ·····437
339 Acacia .....-·-·-····-··-··· ····433
340 Tyrian --·····--·-··-·· ····-···439
341 Standard ··--·-······--······+tO
342 Coronado •.,._.,.....•..........441
343 Blackiner -···-··---···· ···442
344 Scofield ....-·---·----- -443
345 Carpinteria ····--·-···········4+t
346 Wilshire ·················-·········445

204
416
289
167
145
303
419
223
542
435
284
142
767
520
362
233
153
496
200
168
359
105
528
98
201
444
158
502
43
219
360
419
1221
322
129
516

1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1914
1914
1914
19H
19H

m Gardena ·····-··-··- ··372

278 West Los Angeles ____....373
279 Jewel --·-·---·- ....374
280 Richmond ·-····-···-····· -..l7S
281 Francis Drake ····--··-·---·3 76
282 Artesia -···--···-······- ·······!377
283 Mizpah -------~78
284 Fillmore ----·----- -.379
285 Huntington Beach -·--···380
286 Oceanside ·····---········-····.381
287 Highland Park ---·-··.382
288 Orosi ---··----.. ......383
289 El Centro --·-··_. 384
290 Dinuba --·······-···-- ···-..l8S
291 Coalinga -····------ -.387
292 Parnassus ··----········ -388
293 Palos Verdes _____ __389

294 Imperial ·-····-·-···-·-·-··.390
295 East Belt ----·····---- -..391
296 West Lake ·····-·············-392
297 Balder -···-·-······- -....393
298 University ··-··-····-·--··.394
299 Turlock -····-···-······- ·-···395
300 Apollo ·····-·······--········-.396
301 Rising Light -··---··:3 97
302 Fraternity -···--·-·····- -399
303 Burlingame -····--······· 400
304 Bay View ···-···--··--·- ··401
305 Brawley ·-·-···-·····-·-······402
306 Yerba Buena ·········-····4 03
YJl Glendora ______ _404

236

50
50
100
75
115
75
50
75
100
150
125
50
125

-

5.00

-

25.00
1.00

-

-

-

10.00

5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00

-

1.00

-

5.00

-

5.00
25.00
25.00

-5.00
3.00

-

10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00

-

10.00

-

-

50.00
3.00

1.00
-

25.00

--

5.00
-

25.00

15
15
15
12
12
18
15
18
15
16
15
12
15
15
15
15
12
18
16
15
16
12
15
12
15
18
15
15
18
12
15
15
15
12
16
15

-

6
26
7
7
9
17
6
12
11
16
4
9
23
4
12
16
4
29
J.f

3
9
3
6
5
2

13
4
19
14
15
6
16
15
4
2
2
9
24
4
7
1
H
7
9
5
7
40

9
8
9
15
6
12
10
15
7
10
17
5
8
10
6
31
16

6
11
17
7
28

1985.75
1324.50
1375.25
570.50
1309.75
1204.75
687.50
1117.00
684.75
947.75
1439.25
1721.50
427.00
H52.75
1090.75
785.75
2039.50
1840.50
408.25
330.75
2265.75
1400.25
1544.25
1168.75
1268.50
2854.25
1219.75
1855.75
1910.75
677.75
2511.50
692.00
1631.25
2398.00

18

1769.50

I
10
4
8
3
2
9
3
19
11
9
7
17
11
4
1
2
9
22
1
10
1
H
5
6
6
6
38

2
13
3
7
2
1
12
4
18
8
11
4
16
8
3
1
4
12
19
3
10
1
14
6
8
4
8
39

567.00
1165.00
793.75
474.75
397.75
805.25
1147.75
616.00
1502.50
1204.50
807.75
407.50
2144.50
1436.50
981.75
636.50
412.25
1355.50
612.25
459.00
1000.50
291.75
1472.00
279.25
564.75
1219.50
447.25
1494.75
112.75
623.00
1005.25
1186.25
3377.25
935.75
350.50
1422.50

14

20

-

-

-

10
7
11
19
15
3

9
5
12
19
18

-

11

10

10
6
11
20
20
1
10

130.()0
315.00
105.00
210.00
200.00
70.00
505.00
190.00
690.00
515.00
585.00
210.00
560.00
575.00
140.00
70.00
70.00
340.00
915.00
140.00
295.00
35.00
515.00
245.00
315.00
200.00
270.00
1400.00

375.00
270.00
460.00
740.00
525.00
105.00
385.00

••
0

166.53
H66.00
464.00
201.00
507.00
608.50
1024.00
592.00
1348.75
1261.76
585.00
300.00
1861.18
1248.86
202.96
555.50
693.40
234.00
306.75
306.59
229.00
51.00
106.00
488.12
531.00
331.50
1300.00
111.00
18.00
416.50
974.00
2752.45
654.25
329.00
2438.00

-•
....

Lodge

No.

.3i7 La Puente ···············-····--446
348 Torrance ···········--··········-~
.3i9 Mount Di~lo ..................ff8
350 Park ..................................ff9
351 Van Nuys ······-·············_:450
352 Montebe'11o ·················-···451
353 San Pasqual ....................452
354 Bethlehem -····.,--·······-···-453
355 Crocker -············-···-······:ffi
356 Golden West ······-···········-455
357 Ramona ............................457
358 Henry S. Orme ................4S8
359 Riverbank ········-··-······-4 59
360 Mount Oso ......................460
361 Argoaaut ····-········-·-··-···461
362 Paul Revere ..•.................462
363 Morgan Hill .•...................46.3
364 Alta Vista .......................~464
365 Centre ·················-···········465
366 Libertas ·········-·················466
367 Culver City ......................467
368 Rockridge ·········-·············468
369 Yorba Linda ··········-········469
370 Lincoln ..............................470
371 Delta ·····-·························471
372 Maui •................................:4n
373 Blythe ................................473
374 Victory ...,.............·-·-···¥474
375 America ..•:.........- .............475
376 Coachella ·······-········--.....:476
377 Temblor ·········-·················477
378 Thousand Oaks ..............478
379 Golden Rtile -·····-········479
380 Fellowship ,........•...............-480
381 Mt. Davtdsoi:i -----48'1

382 Clarence P. Smith ..........482
383 Bell -·-····--············-~-:f83
384 Albert Pike ...................:...484
385 Chowchilla -····················485
- 386 Caledonia ......................•.486
387 Vallejo ·····-············-·······-·f87
388 Patterson ·····················--·488
389 East Bay ..........................489
390 Corcoran ···········-··········-490
391 Woodstock ·-················--491
392 Garvanza ············-········-·492
393 Atascadero ................ -----49.3
394 Acorn -··-·--·-········- ··--494
395 Lebanon ..._.;;,.,:.,...........~.495
396 Premont ·-··--··--·-···-----······497
397 Stockton ······················-··-498
398 Capital City .................•..499
399 Roosevelt -·····················-500
400 Westwood ·····-·-··-··-······.501
401 Harbor ···--··-·-·-·-··. ..502
402 Point ················-·-····-·-·-50.3
403 Seaside ····-······-······-- -··504
. 404 Silver Cord ···-·-··--········-505
405 Mount Olive ······-···········506
406 El Segundo -···············-··!i(fl
407 Joppa ·····-··-·-················508
408 Benjamin Franklin .......... 509
409 Cupertino ·········-····--····510
410 Sunnyvale ·····-··--····-···5 11
411 Palms -····"·~·-"---··-..512
· ...............51.3
412 Cahuenga ···413 Argonne -··--···--·-..SH
414 Vermont Square ........:......515
415 Taft ··-······-·············-·····.516
416 Mount Vernon ...............517
417 La Jolla ···············-····-····:518
418 Euclid ·····-·····--·-·········--519

Charter
INued

Del:

Alfil.
Peea

75
110
75
100
125
100
115
100
75
75
100
125
75
80
115
100
75
75
80
100
100
115
50
100
100
85
75
100
75

1.00

1141
715
584
241
428
564
546
631
147
356
409
614
159
250
568
726
431
469
182
342
509
210
174
259
475
241
155
531
690
309

1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

384

75
75
75

1920

1.00

100

10.00

357
797
. 244
185
547
397
160
349
136
437
335
140
670
426
542
197
636
218
274
612
331
556
529
976
485
98
346
226
400
516

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
19?.l
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922

75
100
100
75
100

Membera

222
556

436
435

552
.368
502
324
223
. .3i8
385

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.00

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

10.00

5.00
25.00

75
50

75
75

75
75
75

5.00

10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
. 1.00

75

75

• 80
100
100
80

10.00

75

10.00
15.00
10.00

100
85

J?uea

lnft.

Paned

12
15
16
15
15
16
15
18
12
12
15
15
15
12
18
12
15
18
15
15
15
18
15
18
15
16
15
18
15
15
15
15
12

Ralaed

10
29
17

11
25
12
8
35
22

-15

15
18

20
15
15
12
18
12
18
-.15
15
16
15
16
15
18

10.00

16
18
12
15
12

75

12

75
125

15
15
15
12
12
15
18
15
18
15

75
125
100
50
100

LOO
25.00
5.00

75
115
125
100
100
100
50
80
105
100

10.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

.1.5
15
15
16
18
15
15

7
38
21
12
5

7
7
16
10

JO
4
8
5
14

22
16
7
36
22
17

2

7

7
8
17
6

4

4

6

7

7

1
17
2
9
7
20

2

9
4
11
1
6

24
10

15
2
5
6

20

22

7
29
19
9

3
3

9
4
8
10
3
3

1

1

6

4
8

6

4

9
9

11

6

fl
11

2
3
1
8

7
7

6

6

9

11
4
9

18
J
6

10
17

9
. 23

7
4
8

7
4
2
4

5
9
3
10
11
4
4
26
5
6
12
11
9
16
18
19

2
5

8

31
5
4
17
4

6

6
1

9
1

7

7
9

7
10

3
13
10
10
2
20
5
5
12

7

7

10
16
23
24
9

3

3

11
27
20
16
5
3

7
20

22
13

3

3
3
4
3

9
15

6
12

2

6
28
4
4
16

10

5
16
13
7
3
20

7
5
9
8
. 13
13
18
24

7
2
11
23
26
13
3
4
4
3
9

8

0. L.
Per Capita

M.emben

646.50
1594.00
1227.50
1196.25
3164.25
2009.25
1620.25
665.50
1174.25
1549.00
1523.75
1730.75
. 407.25
1002.00
1126.25
1706.75
439.50
702.00
1'568.25
2049.00
1233.75
1279.25
506.25
949.25
1421.50
582.75
482.00
707.00
1.116.75
.681.50
434.25
1458.75
1943.SO
853.25

Endow.
Contn'b.

435.00
11.15.00
595.00
270.00
1465.oo
760.00
495.00
175.00
295.00
270.00
560.00
375.00
140.00
295.00
35.00
595.00
95.00
315.00
280.00
725.00
990.00
350.00
140.00
315.00
365.00
105.00
155.00
35.00
210.00
460.00
245.00
270.00
410.00
HO.DO

..3i5.00
Jl45.72
1003.00
845.50
2294 ..33
1448.61
1783.91
553.00
751.50
844.50
1604.43
1701.47

1067.75

315.00

999.25

2229.75
687.00
520.75
1531.50
1108.75
456.25
961.00
392.00
1192.50
939.25
376.75
1870.50
1197.25
1508.75
542.50
1798.50
613.75
766.75
1707.75
919.75
1550.00
1494.25
2707.25
1387.00
289.75
945.75
650.50
1170.00
1481.50
1535.25
1020.25
1368.50
887.25
619.50
978.25
1069.00

Contrib.

329.75
605.00
1575.50
186.50
58i.10
1157.50
65i.77
lJ89.59
372.00
384.35
913.30
1052.00
. 170.50
"274.50
}678.27
579.65
313.50
586.00
1487.00
170.50
lfl38.?5

905.00
315.00
"1873.90
830;00
·501.58
245.00
. 118.50
140.00
606.00
350.00
369.21
270.00
165.00
543.50
70.00
385.50
190.00
555.50
200.00
907.62
315.00
309.34
105.00
1431.25
350.00
854.00
420.00
1351.15
140.00
292.00
140.00
1385.00
935.00
440.50
166.00
70.3.50
235.00
623.25
420.00
586.00
385.00
13.3i.57
365.00
1134.79
660.00
2037.16
655.00
675.50
740.00
164.75
245.00
778.66
130.00
263.00
385.00
493.50
970.00
105.89
875.00
1418.85
660.00
363.00
175.00
1028.88
155.00
680.00
70.00
. 319.50
105.00
96.50
525.00
525.00 ..
790.74

..
~

NQ.

Loci..,

419 Ionic --·-·········-···············.520
420 Piedmont -··-···········-······.521
421 Sunrise -·····---·--·-·····.522
422 BeUBower ···-·--·············.523
423 Catalina Island ................524
424 George Washington ......525
425 Bay City ···········-·-······--.526
426 Covenant ·······-·················527
427 Beverly Hflls ···-···········.528
428 Loyalty ·······-··----····.529
429 Sun Garden ··-··········--···.530
430 Alexandria ··-··················.531
431 Smyma .......................•....532
432 Azure .···········--····--········.533
433 Forest HJll ···-·····-··········.5.34
434 Alexander Han:lltoo ..... .535
435 Seal Rock ············-···········.536
436 Utopia ·············-··············.537
437 Ascot -·····-···---··--······.538
438 Belvedere ·········-·-·········-.539
439 Queen Beach ··-···········--.540
440 Henry Morse Stephens....541
441 North Hollywood ·-··-····.542
442 Signal ··············-············--.543
443 Glendale ·······················--544
444 Jonathan ·····-·----····-···.5tS
445 San Gabriel -·-·············546
446 Arcadia --·-·················517
447 Triangle -························-518
448 J~ice ....•.........................549
449 Seaport ·-····-·····-···--.550
450 Lakeshore --·········-·---5S 1
451 Semper V!rens •.•.••.....•.. ..SS2
452 Educator - - - 5 5 1
453 Whlte Pine ..
SSS

Memb..-1

Charter
laa11ed

De

iC'

A ff ii.
Fee1

1108
251
309
615
156
459
425
303
577
599
559
178
181
343
205
303
204
691
359
202
193
338
1069
543
813
207
549
594
347
394
229
275
338

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

25.00
5.00

398

1923

215
80
100
175
100
100
100
100
125
150
80
75
70
75
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
75
125
100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
100
50
80

105

1923

SS

483

1923

439
357

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924

100
100
125
100

-

-

10.00

-

10.00

-

20.00
5.00

-

-

10.00
5.00
10.00

-

5.00
5.00

-5.00
25.00

-

-

10.00
10.00
5.00

Duo1

lnit.

Paseed

Raised

Per Capita

G. L.

Memben
Contrib.

18
18
15
15
15
15
18
15
15
15
15
18
12
12
18
20
18
16
15
15
15
12
15
15
15
18
15
12
15
18
18
18
18

40
2
6
34
2
5
12
4
13
24
10
7
11
22

l!ndow.
Contrib.

35
2
5
29
2
5
10
6
10
33
7
4
10
22

35
5
3
23
2
3
13
7
9
22
12
5
5
19
2
10
4
7
9
5
1
3
32
15
24
3
21
25
12
8
8
7

3157.00
688.25
858.25
1774.50
432.25
1267.00
1203.75
828.25
1610.50
1715.25
1558.00
502.75
523.75
1000.75
565.75
848.25
568.25
1888.50
1009.00
569.00
531.75
927.75
3011.00
1530.75
2290.00
571.00
1548.75
1697.50
980.75
1009.00
649.75
763.25

1725.00
195.00
210.00
1315.00
70.00
175.00
420.00
165.00
505.00
875.00
350.00
245.00
460.00
830.00
305.00
70.00
355.00
280.00
340.00
235.00
175.00
1325.00
700.00
835.00
105.00
575.00
800.00
350.00
455.00
140.00
175.00

2300.00
508.00
li22.77
1583.63
336.69
919.50
399.85
517.46
1192.99
1581.00
1047.76
366.02
65.00
900.15
240.00
646.60
512.50
1457.47
800.12
231.25
405.00
437.50
3587.21
1110.65
1770.14
357.00
1679.79
1158.24
764.39
595.60
475.00
617.30

14

956.75
1119.00
285.SO

385.00
315.00

556.00

70.00

170.00

1356.00
1235.75
993.SO
1087.50
1130.75
2340.25
902.25
1146.75
2767.75
949.50
703.00
1312.50
1232.00
1024.50
913.75
698.50
1071.25
236.00
1781.50
560.50
1444.25
1190.75
1527.00
1794.75
341.25
1159.50
871.00
977.50
851.25
1073.75
1075.50
1103.75
1238.50
318.25
993.75

460.00

9&l.45

560.00
260.00
245.00
245.00
1435.00
420.00
245.00
810.00
330.00
140.00
620.00
245.00
210.00
235.00
165.00
455.00
105.00
1055.00
210.00
1155.00
210.00
385.00
385.00
245.00
350.00
445.00
305.00
365.00
315.00

338.08

-5.00

15

2.00

12

-

18
16
12
16
15
12
16
15
16
15
18
16
15
16
18
12
12
15
15
15
15
15
15
12
15
18
15
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
12

-

-

8
2
8
8
8
6
5
35
20
21
3
15
19
10
13
4
5

11

8
4
9
13
6
5
4
29
19
23
4
14
20
10
11
8
6
5

9 ·
2

12
2

11

12
14
7
4
' 6
32
12
6
20
6
8
15
9
6
7
4

9
1

-

..,,.

..,,.
..,,.

688.()()

-

454 Palrfax ····-··-······-··-······.556
455 Herm06a ·-·--····-··-··-.557
456 Point Firmin ·-···-··-···-558
157 Craftsmen ·······-·········-··-S59
458 Plymouth ·-···-·-·--···--560
459 East San Die-go -··-····..561
460 Pyramid ···--···-··-·--·-·562
461 South Park ·······--···-····563
462 Foothlll ---·····-····-·--···.56t
463 West. Adams ········--···S65
·464 James A. Garfield ______ .566

465 Searchlight ······--··--···567
466 Park Boulevard ··········-·-.568
467 Chateau Thiery ·······-······569
468 Military Service ···-······...570
469 Francis K. Shattuck ......•.571
470 James Madison ···--·······-572
471 Hlllcrest -·····-··-····-·····S73
472 S. W. Hackett ····-·-··574
473 Fort Crook ···-·····-···-···-575
474 EI Cajon Valley -····-··-.576
475 Sunnyside ·······-·-··-·-··-577
476 Progressive ··--··-··-578
477 Warren G. Harding ·-····.579
478 Santa Marla ·········-·······-580
479 Security -···--··-·-·-581
480 Rialto -·-·····-····--··-·S82
481 Wasco ···--···-···-····-···-583
482 Harding ·--······--···········5$4
483 Manchester ··········-·-·····..S85
484 Garden Grove ·-~······---586
485 Valley Forge _ ......---587
486 El Sereno ·······-··············.-588
487 Kauai ....... ~·············--··...589
488 Compaas ··-·······-··---..590
489 Escalon ·-·-···········-··-··-591

396
407
822
318
418
990
350
250
463
441
370
334
250
375
85
625
199
497
434
547
641
122
426

302
346
303
381
369
401
452
116
345
166

90
75
100
100
100
100
125
110
100
100
100
75
100
75
130
100
100
125
100
125
80
100
115
80
115
125
120
100
125
75
115
50

--~

-

5.00

-

12.00

-

5.00

75.00
-

-

10.00
10.00
5.00

-

5.00
-

20.00
10.00
10.00

-

-

5.00

-5.00
20.00
1.00

-

10.00

-

16
6
7
7
36
12
7
20
8
4
17
7
6
6
4
13
3
27
6
28
6
II

11
7
10
12
8
9
9
21
7
8

1.3
1

14
2
24
5
27
2
II
15
3
11
14
8
9
9
26
9
7
1
15
1

13
15
7
4
4
31
12
9
19
6
9
10
6
6
7
3
13

-

20
5
28
3
9
17
4

11
20
10

11
8
22
7
8
1
17
2

460.50

860.00
270.00
280.00

530.00
35.00

805.00
558.54
858.00
1180.10
461.32
931.64
1229.00
711.43
1320.00
773.50
915.75
366.91
354.75
234.50
467.50
60.00
1263.25
400.00
1207.81
947.99
1141.01
1342.50
300.83
871.75
617.29
767.75
620.00
922.50
913.25
1021.16
1105.24
428.00
753.25
156.50

~
~

VI

• Lodtic

Charter

No.

Membcn

490 Tujunga ·-·-···················592
491 All States ···-··--······-····593
492 Service ·····-·····-········---.594
493 Alexander Graham Bell..595
494 Guardian --····---.596·
495 Pearl Harbor ············---..598
496 Carmelita -·-··········-----599
497 Lynwood -·····-············---600
498 Grizzly ···········--··········--601
499 Melrose . ·-··-·········-·-----602
500 Diamond ············-···········..603
501 Jubilee
502 Glassell Park ....................605
503 Soj~umer -········--····-607
504 Granada ·····--················-608
505 Provident ....:.·-·-··--·--···609
506 Elmhurst --·,.·············----610
507 Canoga ··-········-·-········611
508 Temple City --········-·---612
509 Three · Pillars -···--··---613
510 Larchmont -···············-··--6H
511 Hemet ·-·-··········-······----615
512 R. E. Dolley ···--··-·····....616
513 Big Bear -·····-·-·--·-----617
514 Southland ·-···- ···-·-----618
515 Neptwie --·····-·····-----619
516 Point · Loma -··············---620
517 The Gardens ········-····--......621 ·
518 Atwater -··········-··-·-··--622
519 Menorah --- --····---..623
520 Fortitude -···--··-----62.f ·
521 Angeles Mesa --···-·---..625
522 Chula Vista --···-----....626
523 Lamanda Park -··---627
SM Truth ..
628

362
544
918
292
1003
592
371
553
133
264
295
413
417
295
850
504·
283
398
553
456
424 .
226
256 I
171 .
363 ·.
310
7f2 .
533,
391 :
1055
2i6.
724 .
627
294 .

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925 .
1925
1925
1925
1925.
1925
1925.
1925
1925
1925
1925

246'

1924

525 Fairview ..........................m
526 In~leside -·····--···············630
527 Benevolence ....................631
528 Normal Heights ..............632
529 Poinsettia __.....................6"
530 Victorville ............... _.......634
531 Riverside ·-·················----··635
532 John Marshall ..................636
533 Palisades -······-···········--···6'51
534 Indian Rock ......................6.38
535 ComPosite ........................639
536 Ventas ..:..........................6t0
537 James A. Foshay ............641
538 La Cumbre ......................642
539 Aita Loma ........................643
540 Lomita ·······-··················64.f
541 A. F. E. Irwin -·---·········645
542 Metropolitan -·····-··--······646
543 Hawthorne :....:.................647
544 Damascus ........................648
545 Florence ..........................649
546 La Brea .........................,..6SO
547 Menlo Park ....................651
548 Cresce.ota Valley ............652
549 Footaru. -·········-···············653
550 Jordan .:.:..........................654
551 Monte Vista ....................655
552 Citrol ---~---~ ......................656
553 John D. Spreckels ............657
554 Livingston ........................658
555 La Habra -····--··············-659
556 Baldwin Park ..................660

300
229
26i
817
758
276
55j
300
454
22f
610
149
231
324

1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928

--- ------604

557 Malta --···········-····-···-661
558 Henry Knox ....................662
559 Ojai -····- -···········......._663
560 Kaweah - ··--··········-·66S

'ill
374
287
169
592
693
460
280
321
596
402
428
822
253
671
221
227
302
261

442
158
134

X.,ucd

°Fe:'

AS:il.

r-

Du~•

Inic.

Pasecd · Raiecd

125
100
100

5.00

15
15
16
15
15
15
16
18
12
15
18
15
15
15
15
15
16 "
16
15
15
15
15
12
20
15
16
15
15
15
12
18
15
15

23
10
29
2
15
12
15
2
2

16.
11
24
4
20
14
6
16
2
3

7

7

5
5

9
10
14
17
15
10
30
20

11
10
19
19
17
9

15
11
18
15
14
8

32

32

21
4
9
12
9

21
4
14
11

5

4
10
12
25
18
13
36
2
18

75
100
150
115
125
50
90
100

75
75
100
100

75
100
135
100
125
100
50
100

75
100
100
125
100

75
175

75
125
125.
75
115

100

75

-

5.00

-

15.00

-

10.00

-

5.00
1.00

-

-

10.00
10.00
15.00

-

10.00
5.00

-

-

-

5.00

-

10.00

-

25.00
5.00

1.00
-

10.00

3.00

-

100
105
100
74

-

75

-

100
100

5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00

75
125
100
100

75
100
125
125
100
100

75
125
100
125
125
125
100
125
90
115

50
125
65

75
125

75
50

5.00

-

5.00

5.00
5.00

-

10.00

25.00

-

-

-

25.00

-

24

7
13
8

7
4·
11
13
24
17 .
11
38

7
19 ..

16

25
12

18

8

15
18
18
15
18
18
15
15
15
18
15
18
15
18
15
15
18
15
15
12
18
18
18
25
15
12
12
15
15
15
15
12
15
15
15
15

6

7
4
28
17
27
36
12
16
4
27
9
3
8
11
10
6
6
19
33

4
2
11
15
27
12
34
15
26
13
12
20
10
11
3

3

6

IS"
24
14
17
40
3
24
26
9
10

16
11
26
-4
26
15

5
22
2

7

25
10
10

7
8
6
30
20
20
21
12
14
4

'2,7
6
3
6
8
14
8
3
27
32

5
5
10
12
23
11
28
14
18
10
10
29
14
8
2
3

8
6
8
38
25
19
21
8
12
1
31

7
5
7
12
15
14
3
28
27
3

G. L.

Pee Capil&
1047,7~

1495.00
2587.00

807.50
2789:75
1663.75
1032.25
1560.00
358.00'
733.25
816.50
1159.75
1166)5
856.75
2372.00
1426.50
802.50
1183.00
1582.75
1269.00
1193.75
652.50
716.00
477.75 .
1025.25
881.50
2022.75
1484.50
1108.00
3009.75
603.25
2041.00
1783.75
8.34.00
699:00

870,75
642.50
727.50
2329.00
2130.00
825.00
1598.75
848.75
1274.00
611.25
1748.75
423.50
640.75
906.50
1139.25
1048.25'
806.25

476.75
1702.00
1962.00
1271.50

4

778.25

11
17
18
12
29
12
19
10

914.75
165550
1157.00
1203.75
2340.50
720.25
1894.50
632.50
653.25
904.50
754.00
1230.50
HI.SO
373.00

7
25
15

7
2

4

M.embe.n
Coacrib ..

Endow.
Concrib.

830.00:
400.00
1040.00
70.00
915.00
525.oo ·.
470.00
575.00
70.00
95.00
270.00
350.00
375.00
565.00
620.00 .
575.00
375.00
1100.00
800.00 .
245.00
555.00
315.00.
270.00
140.00
410.00
455.00 .
940.00
6:iO.OO.
435.00
1355.00
245.00
690.00
1060.00
420.00
280.00

1011.56
1122.75
1891.00
1772.63
2324.33
1446.50
930.29
1697.97
266.00
581.73
630.22
963.25
864.88
420.91
1806.64
1022.50
569.00

855.38

1367.75
25.96
765.80

925.00
215.00
628.10
1651.90
1544.00
228.50
1160.12
610.00
1881.78
200.50
1302.50
230.00
704.40
1155.50
567.25
766.23

1155~00

'437.50

165.00
70.00
385.00
600.00
970.00'
420.00
1240.00
525.00
1060.00
455.00
'470.00
775.00
350.00

949.15
635.04
648.52
1207.28
2.52.79
861.08
1387.62
539.50
1152.00
276.00
485.93
659.40
577.58
1250.C>q
498.76
275.()()

385.0Q.

~

1610.00
925.00
1019.50
548.2S
858.80
354.50
858.00
628.00 '
1012.00
661.94
956.32
4592.10
171.00
1512.50

235.00
245.00
140.00.
1055.00
655.00
970.00
1560.00
445.00
635.00
140.00
1070.00
340.00
105.00.
380.00
385.00
425.00
245.00
210.00
725.00

.405.00
105.00

~
~·

515.61
352.75
1321.22

.
~

~

Lodge

No.

561 Reseda •·-···-··-····-···········666
562 Meridian -············.--·---667
563 San Gorgonlo ·-···············668
564 John P. Jarman -·--····-···669
565 Greenleaf ···-···········-········670
566 San Clemente ··-······-·---671
567 Laguna Beach -·······-······672
568 Far West ···-··········-·······673
569 Los Cerritos ·······-········-·674
570 Modesto ····-·····-···-··········675
571 Willow Glen •...................676
572 Liberal Arts ···········-·····-·671
573 Altadena ···············-·········678
574 Canby Cross -··--·-·-·····679
575 Carmel ·······-····-···············680
576 Dos Palos ····-·····--·········681
577 Barstow ···-··········-··········682
578 Redwood Empire ............683
579 Trona ......--..·-···-······-.....684
580 San Marino ...........- ...- ....685
58 l Albany ··············-······-······686
582 Vista ........- ................- .....687
583 Oildale ............_................688
584 Pohona ·····-··-··-···---689
585 San Carlos .......- ...............690
586 Indian Wells Valley ......691
587 Travelers ..........................692
588 Palm Springs ..................693
589 San Antonio .............- .....694
590 Meudell ........................ _695
591 Crossroads ................... __696
592 Saint Elmo ··---····---·---697
593 Wm. D. Stephens ............698
594 Bixby Knolls -·-·········--···699
595 Ponderosa ···---·-·······-700

596 Santa Ynez Valley ..........701
597 Rosemead -·..-···-·-····-···702
598 Westchester ...........- .......703
599 Orinda ---·-·····-············704
600 El Cerrito _ ..........- .....705
601 Hunters Point Naval ......706
602 Lake Tahoe -·················-·707
603 Seafaring ...............- ........708
604 Lorenzo __........................709
605 Anacapa -····--............710
606 Rim of the World ·····---711
607 Los Altos -···---·····-··-712
608 Castro Valley ..................713
609 Blue Lakes ........................714
610 Magnolia Park ................715
611 Belmont Shore _ ...............716
612 Wayfarer ---··..--.....717
613 San Lorenzo Valley ........718
614 Estero -··-·-·····-···········719
615 Mineral King ..................720
616 Home ··--··-·...............721
617 George E. Tutt ................722
618 Acalanes -·--..··-·..........723
619 San Ramon Valley ..........724
620 Saint John's -···-...............725
621 Yucaipa -··········-·-······726
622 Verdugo Hills .........- .......727
623 Lakewood ........................728
624 Centennial ........·-···-····-729
625 Polaris ~-·········--· ..--·....7.30
626 Two Rivers ··········-·········.731
627 San Juan -·-············-.....732
628 Golden Empire ···--··-.....733
629 Kit Carson -···-·····...........734
630 Oasis of Mara ······-······-·735
631 Lemon Grove ·····-·-·-·····736

Cbarur
1.,ued

Degru

lSl

1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949

120
100
75
75
100
100
75
75
175
75
100
125
115
65
75
100
65
100
75
100
75
75
100
50
100
100
125
100
125
ll5
115
100
125
100
80

121
194
424
180
188
241
75
358
316
215
134
190
244
184
208
291
187
87
127
94
366
148
163
150
187
145
93
203
127
122
149
151
118
156
100
280

1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953.
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954

75
75
125
75
75
100
75
100
100
75
75
100
100
100
125
125
100
100
75
75
125
75
75
75
75
75
125
125
125
100
100
75
90
100
90
115

Memben

664
539
260
299

!HO
134
209
344
491
524
398
375
564
164
242
154

406
120
160
447
224
318
255
84
419
409
214
216
257
184
333
205
149
335

Peet

Affil.
Pea

-

-

1.00
5.00
25.00

-

l.00
10.00

-

-

10.00
10.00

-

1.00
3.00

-

10.00
1.00

-

25.00
10.00

-

5.00
10.00
5.00

-

-

10.00

-

10.00

1.00

15.00
-

1.00
10.00
1.00

-

5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00

-

1.00

-

-

10.00
10.00
15.00

-

10.00

-

10.00
10.00
10.00

10.00

Duu

lnlt.

P.... d

R.ai..d

15
15
12
15
12
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
16
15
18
12
18
15
15
12
12
15
12
18
17
15
20
16
15
15
15
20
16
18

45
9
6
4
40
4
2
14
21
8
13
9
13
5
3
4
18
2
6
12
4
12
15
2
14
21
5
7
lO
8
23
16
9
19
19

43
10
9
5
29
8

45
13
8
4
29
9

15
16
15
15
15
15
18
16
15
18
15
12
18
18
15
16
15
16
12
15
16
18
15
15
15
12
16
18
15
15
12
15
15
12
15
15

5
15
21
12
15
7
4
23
21
18
2
15
25
8
15
32
12
2
3
2
28
8
9
3
18
7
3
15
7
8
19
22
13
15
9
37

·-

9
18
4
10
15
14
2
2
5
15
3
4
16
3
10
]]

2
20
18
3
7
9
10
19
21

-

9
18
9
12
12
18
2
3
7
16
5
4
16
7
10
15
2
13
20
6
8
12
10
16
19

G. L.
Per Capita

~mbero

1945.25
1495.00
732.50
827.00
2320.00
386.75
565.75
975.25
1407.25
1445.50
1129.50
1059.00
1587.75
457.25
662.50
436.75
1165.50
337.25
451.25
1273.25
630.00
906.50
739.50
234.25
l 199.25
l 183.75
602.50
616.00
732.25
534.00
973.75
619.75
440.75

1710.00
365.00
260.00
140.00
1450.00
140.00
95.00
490.00
910.00
280.00
505.00
380.00
555.00
175.00
155.00
140.00
690.00
70.00
235.00
470.00
165.00
495.00
550.00
70.00
525.00
735.00
175.00
305.00
350.00
280.00
880.00
645.00
315.00
740.00
665.00

]]

]]

Ji

18

969.50

15

H

1013.25

5
13
23
9
12
8
2
16
20
15
3
15
26
8
9
24
9
3
6
2
33
9
9
3
16
6
2
17
8
10
15
22
14
15
9
30

3
14
18
6
12
8
2
17
20
16
4
9
22
7
lO
29
14
3
5
2
32
11
8
5
17
5
3
21
7
lO
15
13
14
16
9
34

334.75
572.75
1222.50
522.00
556.00
683.00
211.50
1040.50
930.00
634.75
377.50
561.50
744.00
529.00
603.25
882.50
549.25
244.50
363.25
261.75
1099.50
432.25
474.25
423.50
565.25
416.75
263.75
608.50
368.50
363.50
458.75
469.50
365.50
475.00
302.00
871.00

Contrib.

200.00

575.00
820.00
445.00
575.00
345.00
165.00
1015.00
810.00
655.00
70.00
600.00
900.00
280.00
600.00
1245.00
470.00
70.00
130.00
120.00
1190.00
280.00
315.00
105.00
655.00
270.00
130.00
550.00
305.00
280.00
665.00
795.00
455.00
550.00
315.00
1295.00

Endow.
Contrib.

1683.04
1150.80
526.50
365.00
876.20
123.00
267.50
461.25
1337.00
767.75
393.00
lH7.03
1238.83

:t
00

492.50
398.50
1018.20
240.00
438.50
1935.50
550.00
128.00
147.25
187.00
894.64
1062.00
52750
555.55
547.00
431.00
743.00
778.90
96150
1020.00
761.00

30\.50
491.27
1167.90
1216.50
428.75
627.25
453.00
1097.15
637.07
458.64
282.00
576.00
545.50
517.79
493.00
600.00
528.96
187.00
354.00
240.50
806.00
298.00
405.00
336.50
487.75
223.50
287.16
664.90
625.64
324.00
378.79
588.50
406.00
633.25
94.00
988.37

'"""'
IC
'"""'

Lod1e

No.

632 Hillsborough ····-······-·······737
633 Arvin ----············-··········738
634 La Canada ·····-········-·····739
635 Opportunity ....................740
636 Tyre -····--·········--···········741
637 Morningside Park ..........742
638 Oakwood -·-·-············-·743
639 San Leandro ....................744
640 Peninsula •.........................745
641 Soquel -···························746
642 Claude H. Morrison ........747
643 Highland ····-·-·················748
644 Merced ···-----····-···········--749
645 Mother Colony ................750
646 HamiLton ·······-··············--151
647 Lullher Burbank ..............752
648 Lawndale -·············-···--·--753
649 San Pablo ····-··············--··754
650 Golden Bowl ---···-·------····755
651 Clayton Valley --·············756
652 Channel ---··-··----·-···-·····757
653 West Covina ···········-···--758
654 El Rancho -···················-·759
655 Lakeside ·-·-····---··---·····760
656 Josiah W. Roller ·····-·······761
657 Coastside -···········-·······---162
658 Arabic ·····-··--··-··············763
659 Heritage ---·-··········--·-·-·764
660 Dana R. Weller •••...........765
661 James H. Kew ..................766
662 Wm. Rhodes Hervey ......767
663 Zenith --······················.768
664 Palmdale -·-··-······--···-769
665
Lake Chabot -·-------110
666 Misaion Bay _ _ _ _771

667 Avenal ············-···············772
668 Tejon ·············-···-·····-··--773
669 Waikiki --·······--······-···774
670 San Dieguito ··---·-·······775
671 East Whittier ······-······----116
672 Pinnacle ·-··-···-··-·-········777
673 La Mirada ----···············778
674 Five Points ····-················779
675 Riviera ·····--··-···············-780
676 Rolling Hills ·-········-·······781
677 Silverado -··-··-··-·······-•782
678 Mojave ··············-···········783
679 Leland Stanford ······-······784
680 Paramoum ··············-········785
681 Rio Linda ·-···-··-······-···786
682 Westminster ....................787
683 Sierra -····-····-····-··-····--788
684 Oak Plains ··---~---·-····--789
685 Granada Hills ·········-···---290
686 Gen. Henry H. Amold ...791
687 Millbrae ··-·····-··--·····-···.792
688 Maya ·-········-··-······-····-793
· 689 Mt. Wilson ···--··········-···794
690 American River ·-····-·····795
691 Golden Valley ................796
Northern Calif. Research..............
Southern Calif. Research..............
El Camino Research. ..............- .....

Me.mben
136
107
118
176
148
162
85
138
104
119
91
163
120
122
122
146
155
88
130
159
95
143
151
85
145
72
113
99
106
113
104
160
168

Charter

I11ued

De/C:e

1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957

100
100
125
115
125
115
150
100
100
80
115

75
90

75
100

75
75

108

1957
1957

115

50
108
66
133
102
47
89
62
84
85

1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958

100
100
175
90
100

79
65

76
58
65
61
62
58
62

57
50
33
58
48
50

240,128

89
104
71

1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959

-

75
100
125
125
125

}25
75
100
125
100
100

Raised

Per Capita

M.embers
Contrib.

Endow.
Contrib.

7

11
4
8
15
15
19
2
13
13
8
13
20
4
18
16
16
18
11
17
23
4
18
20
6
14
11
9
13
17
19
11
25
15
18

11

400.25
309.25
349.50
530.00
448.25
491.50
243.75
418.50
326.00
355.25
281.25
509.25
338.25
389.50
377.50
438.75
483.25
283.00
408.75
498.25
277.25
454.25
479.25
251.75
438.75
229.00
349.75
302.25
336.50
360.75
319.00
511.00
520.00

270.00
235.00
270.00
525.00
550.00
560.00
285.00
585.00
575.00
455.00
405.00
860.00
105.00
815.00
385.00
455.00
785.00
655.00
665.00
845.00
175.00
760.00
925.00
200.00
500.00
315.00
635.00
280.00
420.00
660.00
690.00
1055.00
915.00

626.40
321.00
572.00
412.00
304.20
695.77
322.42
363.45
255.50
247.00
258.25
479.88
315.50
251.63
260.50
351.10
404.50
189.00
383.58
411.50
259.00
361.76
24.00
283.50
580.20
146.00
1265.00
254.75
251.00
407.85
669.00
488.00
683.20

G. L.

10.00

15

10.00
10.00

18
12

19

21

18

355.00

765.00

2ff.SO

-

12
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
18
18
15
16
18
15
15
12
18
18
15
15
15

4
20
13
16
16
3
16
10

3
20
13
10
17
1
18

8

9
9
10
2
10
10
6
11
6
15
14
9

2
20
9
11
19
2
20
10
6
13
9
4
15
10
6
14
4
12
9

146.50
357.00
216.50
402.75
332.50
135.25
298.75
195.50
254.00
265.75
247.25
188.75
244.00
191.50
198.75
203.75
189.50
204.50
207.50
181.75

88.00
232.08
171.00
211.75
254.10
94.00
315.65
132.25
588.00
414.91
175.00
198.00
158.50
124.00
221.50
133.00
274.50
139.00
96.00
114.00

-

10.00
50.00
10.00

1.00

-

-

5.00
5.00

-

12.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

-

3.00
10.00
5.00

-

10.00

25.00

-

6.00

-

100
125
90

-

100
125
115
100

5.00
7.00

75

Paqed

10
9
16
8
12
15
14
27
23

25.00

10.00
1.00
25.00
10.00
10.00

75

Dues

18
20
18
15
16
15
18
15
18
12
15
12
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
16
12
18
12
15
12
15
15
15
16
15
15
15

-

75

80
115
100
100
100
100
140
100
105
115
125
125
115
100

80

Peea

100
100

lnit.

A ffii.

10.00
10.00

6

7
15
15
16
6
16
15
13
8
20
3
17
11
13
21
18
19
21

5
21
25

5

17

10
11
4
10
12
8
11
9
18
14
11

9
6

-

7255

5
10
16
14
11
2
10
12

7
10
21
4
19
15
11
18
12
18
17

7
22
19

7
16
11
14
9
16
16
8
19
20
15

-

-

7047

672.148.25

278,397.00

5

2

-

6946

595.00

140.00
750.00
480.00
760.00
610.00
105.00
635.00
350.00
355.00
400.00
460.00
140.00
400.00
420.00
330.00
435.00
440.00
1030.00
915.00
1110.00
175.00
440.00
485.00
450.00
125.00

5

-

270.00

-

-

-

-

9.00
8.00

~

v

c

182.00

77.50
62.00
124.00
113.50

210.00

$502,120.43

~

u

....

452

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES
4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
4 Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
8 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
9 Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
11 Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Tra.'lsferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never

26
28
29
31
34
36
37
39
47
48
49
52

issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt.
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
St. John'sbYreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 98, as Howard
No. 37, ec. 8, 1924. ·
Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.
1864.

53
54
62
63
66
67
69
69
71

Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
Forest, Alleghany, 1855. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. 59, September 27, 1955.
Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with lone No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.

E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. l, 1858.
Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never
issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
72
73

453

EXTINCT LODGES-Contin ued
82
83

Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,

85

Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882.
Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.

1919.

85
86
88
88

13, 1910.

Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 185S.
Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8.
90
92

1924.

97

Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19,

98
99

Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99. Oct. 16,

100

108

Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct, 1898.
Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
Mount Jeffei:son, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,

109
114

Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11.

1926.
1913.

102
105
107

1908.

1911.

Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
•
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never lS·
sued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,
115

1936.

121
125
130
133
137
138
142
148

Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct 14, 1870.
Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
San Luii Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2.
1865.

454

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
151 Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct.16, 1902.
152 Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
155 Mount Carmel, Re~ Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered A_ug.. 16_, 1~72.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
. . . .
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1~65.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to Jur1sd1ction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
issued.
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never
issued.
205 Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
226 Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa N!).
240, April 1, 1882.
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

455

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
' 252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1918.
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881.
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
:.!63 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11,
1911.
290 Sunset, Los Angeles, 1888. Name changed to East Gate No. 290, October 12, 1899.
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,
1902.
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19. 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371. Oct. 12, 1916.
373 Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
413 Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, !945.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles. 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
438 Acacia, Los Angeles. Consolidated with Arlington No. 414, September
28, 1959.
456 Kennett, !Umnett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254 Dec. 19,
1925.
496 Riverdale, Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
542 Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, October 12, 1950.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 55-i,
Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
611 Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.
612 Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,
1929.
616 Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
664 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30.
1937.

456

1869

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization. April 18. A. L. 5850
1850

1856

Jonethen D. Stevenson ..G. M.
California No. I
lorn Jen. I, I800
Died Feb. 14, 1894
John A. Tutt...........•.. D. G. M.
Celeb Fenner__________s. G. W.
Seshel Woods ..- ........J. G. W.
Levi Stowell ....- ................ G. T.
John H. Gihon ................G. S.

1851
John A. Tutt.•·-····-·-···G. M.
Tehama No. I
Born Feb. 41..1811
Died Mey IY, 1900
Benj. D. Hyem .......... D. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis................S. G. W.
Benj. S. Olds..·-····-···J. G. W.
Townsend A. Thomes...... G. T.
Levi StowelL-·-············G• S.

1852
leniemin D. Hyem........ G. M.
ilenlcle No. I
lorn Merch I, 1813
Died July 12, 1893
Ches. M. Redcliff.. _.. D. G. M.
Addison Mertin ................ G.T.
J. R. McConnell.._...J. G. W.
Addison Mertin .....·-····--G. T.
Levi Stowell.....- ...............G. S.

1853
Charles M. RedcllfL ...G. M.
Tuolumne No. 8
Bom Feb. I, 1811
Died Dec. II, 18"
T. A. Thomes·-···-··---D· G. M.
Jno. R. Crendell._____S. G. W.
Richard F. Knoff...•.._J. G. W.
Addison Mertin ...____ G. T.
Levi Stowell _______________ &, S.

1854
William H. Howerd ...... G. M.
Sen Jose No. 10
Born A119. 29, IBID
Died Sept. II, 1166
Neth. G. Curtis....- .. D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole.....___$, G. W.
Robt. N. Wood______ .J, G. W.
Addison Mertin ..·-·-----·G. T.
Levi Stowefl._____________ G, S.

1855
William H. Howerd ......G. M.
T. A. Thomes_._________ D, G. M.
Jno. A. Reymond .•....S. G. W.
Sem, A. Merritt..••...•J. G. W.
Addison Mertin.. _____.G. T.
L....t Stowell _____ S.

e.

1863

William H. Howerd ...... G. M. William C. Belcher........ G. M.
John A. Reymond_.. D. G. M. Gil. B. Cleiborne...... D. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon _______S. G. W.
Louis Cohn ................S. G. W.
Peter W. Rendle ......J. G. W. Wm. A. Devin._.......J. G. W.
Addison Mertin ..·-··--···G• T. Jemes Leldley..- ..- ......G. T.
Alex G. AbelL ...............G. S.
Alex G. Abell·-·-····-···-G• S.

1857

Netheniel G. Curtis......G. M.
1864
W111hln9ton No. 20
Born Feb. 8 1825
William
C.
Belcher
........ G. M.
Died July 12, 1897
Charles Mersh ....._..... D. G. M. Gil. B. Cleiborne...... D. G. M.
Aaron D. Perk........- ...5. G. W. Wm. A. Devies ..........S. G. W.
John B. Pope.......- .....J. G. W. lseec S. Titus.---··-···J. G. W.
Jemes Leidley............- .... G. T.
Addison Martin ···--······G• T.
Alex G. Abell --···--···G· S. Alex G. AbelL-······-·····G. S

1858
Netheniel G. Curtis......G. M.
P. W. Shepheerd ...... D. G. M.
Wm. McCormicL...S. G. W.
Jes. W. BicknelL.....J. G. W.
Addison Mertin ·-··----···G· T.
Alex G. Abell .....- ........... G. S.

1859
Netheniel G. Curtis...... G. M.
P. W. Shepheerd ...... D. G. M.
Ebenezer Lene..........S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hewley-......J. G. W.
Addison Mertin .....•........G. T.
Alex G. AbelL....._........G. S.

1860
N11th11nlel G. Curtis......G. M.
P. W. Shepheard.____ o. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher........S. G. W.
Alvinze Heywerd _____J, G. W.
Addison Mertin ··--···-···G• T.
Alex G. Abell.....- ...........G. S.

1865
Gilbert B. Cleiborne...... G. M.
San Joe_quln No. It
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908
Wrr:. A. D11vie1..-...... D. G. M.
lseec S. Titus.............. S. G. W.
Henry H. Hertley......J. G. W.
Jemes Leidley....·-·--·-··G• T.
Alex G. AbelL...............G. S.

1866
Gilbert B. Cleiborne......G. M.
Henry H. Hertley...... D. G. M.
Wm. H. Peterson ..... _$, G. W.
Thomes BecL _________J, G. W.
Jemes Leidley..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell.....·--········6. S.

1867

William A. Devles..........G. M.
Columble No. 28
Jemes L English ............G. M.
Born Feb. 5, 1127
Died June 20, 1916
Secremento No. 40
Born June 5, 1813
Henry H. Hertley.... D. G. M.
Died Mey 29, 1889
Wm. C. Belcher........ D. G. M. Thomes Beck..............S. G. W.
John W. Herville...__ $. G. W. Leonides E. Preff......J. G. W.
A. Leldley........._.G. T.
Celeb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W. Jemes
Alex G. Abelf_______________ G, S.
Jemes Leidley................G. T.
Alex G. AbelL...............G. S.

1861

1862

i57

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1868

William C. Belcher........ G. M. Charles Marsh ................ G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dae. 6 1825
Born Dec. 12, 1120
Died
Aprll 28, 1176
Died Sept. I, 1895
Theo.
G. Cockrill ...... $. G. W.
Gii. B. Cleiborne...... D. G. M.
John W. Hervllle......S. G. W. Leonides E. Preff...... D. G. M.
John B. Hewson .....•.•J, G. W, Fredk, F. Berss.......... J. G. W.
Jemes Leldley....._...._.....G. T. Jemes Leldley..................G. T.
Alex G. Abell.·-···-··-···· S. Alex G. Ab..0 ..............- ..&. S.

Leonides E. Prett.. ____ G, M.
Mountain Shade No, II
Born Aug. 29, 1833
Died Oct. 25, 1886
lseec S. Titus. _______ D. G. M.
John S. Werd ______ s. G. W.
Richard Dele.---··J• G. W.
Jemes Leidley_ _ _ _G. T.
Alex G. Abell______G. S.

1870

Leonrdes E. Preff.._. _____ G. M.
lseec S. Titu1.. ____ o. G. M.
Ches. L Wiggin ..- ..•.S. G. W.
Benj. H. Freemen._..J. G. W.
Jemes Leldley·--····-···G• T.
Alex G. Altell_..._.6. S.

1871
Leonides E. Prett..•.......G. M.
Ches. L Wiggln ....- .. D. G. M.
Ben. H. Freemen ......S. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins-......J. G. W.
J11me1 Leidley______ G, T.
Alex G. Abell _____&. S.

1872
Leonides E. Preff..........G. M.
Benj. H. Freemen ...... D. G. M.
Geo. C. Perkins____S. G. W.
John M. Browne...•_..J. &. W.
Jemes Leidley...•._...........6. T.
Alex G. Abell.·-·-·······-G. S.

1873
Isaac S. Titus................G. M.
Sen Joaquin No. 19
Born Oct. I~ 1827
Died Aprll u., 1892
Geo. C. Perkins..._... D.'&. M.
Jno. M. Browne.. _....S. G. W.
Ches. E. MitchelL...J. G. W.
Jemes Leldley_ _ _ _G. T.
Alex G. Abell __________G. S.

1874
George C. Perkins.._.&, M.
Orovllle No. 103
Born Au9. 23, 1839
Died Feb. 26, 1'23
John M. Browne_____ D, G. M.
Wm. B. Perker....- .•.S. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnln..•...-.J. G. W.
James Leldley.______ G. T.
Alex G. Abell.•-------·&. S.

1875
John M. Browne............ G. M.
Naval No. 87
Born May 10, 1831
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Ches. L Wiggin ...... D. G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnin ..........$. G. W.
Jecob H. Neff......_..J. G. W.
J11me1 l.atdley........---·G• T.
Alex G. Abell.·--·····-··-G• S.

1876

1883

John M. Browne_...•....G. M.
Ches. L Wiggin ____ D, G. M.
Wm. S. Wells..- ........S. G. W.
Solon W. Creigue....J. G. W.
Jemes LeidleY-·--······--G• T.
Alex G. Abell._.............G. S.

Jonethen D. Hines..._ ..6. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dae. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin........ D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hirem N. Rucker......J. G. W.
Moses Heller-·-·-··--··&• T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1877
John M. Browne...•........G. M.
Ches. L Wiggin ___ D, G. M.
Wm. W. Treylor...._..S. G. W.
Wm. 1-1. Crene..______J, G. W.
Moses Heller ______ G. T.
Alex G. Abell ..- .............G. S.

1878
John M. Browne _____ G, M.
Wm. W. Treylor._____ D. G. M.
Wm. H. Crene._____ s. G. W.
Robt. C. Broder........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ______ &. T.
Alex G. Abell ..................&. S.

1879
William W. Tr11ylor........G. M.
Cellfornla No. I
Born March 17, 1822
Died Jan. 18, 1813
Semuel C. Denson .... D. G. M.
Cley W. Teylor.....-.S. G. W.
John Q. Adems ...- .•.J. G. W.
Moses Hellar _______ G, T.
Alex G. Abell... ............... G. S.

1880
Samuel C. Denson........&. M.
Union No. 68
Born Sept. 23, 1839
Died July 26, 1917
Cley W. Taylor........ D. G. M.
John Q. Ad11m1 ........S. G. W.
0. W. HollenbecL.J. G. W.
Moses Heller _______ G. T.
Alex G. AbelL---·····-----G· S.

1881
Clay W. Teylor....... _...... G. M.
Western Star No. 2
Born Sept. I0, 1844
Died May I, 1897
John Q. Adams ........ D. G. M.
Jonathan D. Hines....S. G. W.
Thos. J. Bowers......_.. J. G. W.
Moses Heller ---···-··G• T.
Alex G. Abell ______________ .G. S.

1884
Jonethen D. Hines........ &. M.
Wiley J. Tlnnin........ D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hirem N. Rucker. ____J, G. W.
Moses Heller -----·-·---·G• T.
Alex G. AbelL---···-·-·-··G· S.

1885
Wiley J. Tlnnln ...--····-·-G· M.
Trinity No. 27
Born Oct. 7 1829
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson .. _.. D. 6. M.
Hirem N. Rucker......S. G. W.
Henry H. Knapp......J. G. W.
Nathan W Speuldlng .... G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S.

1886
Edmund C. Atkinson .... G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov. 17 1837
Died March ~. 1911
Hiram N. Rucker...... D. G. M.
Morris M. Estee........S. G. W.
Alveh R. Conklin ...... J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....&. T.
Alex G. Abell .................. G. S.

1887
Hiram N. Ruder .......... G. M.
La 6ran9a No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Morris M. Estee........ D. G, M.
Alvah R. Conklin ......S. G. W
Wm. JoJ.nston ..........J. 6. W.
Nathen W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. AbelL...............G. S.

1888

Morris M. Estee............ G. M.
Californla No. I
1882
Born Nov. 23, 1134
Cley W. Teylor__________ G. M.
Died Oct. 7, 190J
Alveh
R. Conklin ..... _D. G. M.
Jonathan D. Hines.... D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atklnson ......S. G. W. William Johnston ...... S. 6. W.
George Hinds _______J G. W, Marc. D. Boruck........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ·-···---G. T. N11th11n W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell.............- ...G. S. ' Al"w G. Abell..................G. S.

458
1889

1895

Morris r.f. Dt••--·-6• M.
"Nllliem Johnston __ D. G. M.
Ches. R. Grltman__ G. W.
Hanry S. Orme.•_.J. G. W.
Neth.an W Spauldlng _6. T.
Alex 6. Abell _ _ _&. S.

s.

1890
Alveh R. Conklln...- ....... G. M.
Inyo No. 221
Born 18J5
Died Oct. I, 18'7
Willlem Johnston_... D. G. M.
Chas. R. 6ritmen....S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........J. G. W.
Nethan W Spaulding .... G. T.
6eorge Johnson -·--·-6• S.

1891
William Johnston_ ....6. M.
Fr•ntlln No. 143
lorn June 2, 1125
Died Nov. 14, 19111
Chas R. Gritman .._.. D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme _ •...S. G. W.
Jas. B. Stevan1.....- ...J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _6. T.
George Johnson _ _6. S.

1892

Oscar Lawler
..
G. M.
East Gate No. 2'0
lorn April 2, 1171
W. Fran\: Pierc•···- ···D. G. M.
Dena R. Weller ...- ..S. G. W.
A. J. Monro•·····--···J• G. W.
Edward Coleman...- ....... G. T.
John Whic:her..................G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........- ... G. L.

Bonj. F. Bledsoe ............ G. M.
San Bernardino No. J4I
Born Feb. 8, 1874
Died Oct. JO, 19J8
Alb. G. Burnett........ D. G. M.
F. V. Keesling ....._.....S. G. W.
W. Rh. Hervey..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whic:her..................G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L.

George F. Rodden ........ G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Dec.24, 1867
Died March 8, 1934
Sam. E. Burke ............D. G . M.
Wm. A. Sherman ...... S. G. W.
Arthur S. Crite1........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whic:her..................6. S.
Thomas J. Beker............_G, L.

1902

William T. Luc:aa._.....__ G. M.
Guadalupe No. 237
Born March II, 1850
Died March 21, ltJI
Thomas FlinL... ___ D. G. M.
F. M. AngellottL....S. G. W.
Chas. L. Patton .._ ..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman•..- ..- ..G. T.
Georg• Johnson ____G S.

Orrin S. Henderson ...... G. M.
Mornln4 Star No. 68
Bom June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting .... D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter......S. 6. W.
Motley H. Fllnt..._...J. G. W.
Edward Coleman...____ G. T.
George Johnson ··--·6• S.
Wm. H. Edwards _____ &. L

1897

1903

Thomas Flint _____ 6. M.
Texas No. 46
Born Mar 19 1858
Died Nov. Ii, 1936
F. M. AngellottL-... D. G. M.
Chas L Patton.. _.._.. G. W.
Jes. A. Foshey_..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..___ .. G. T.
Georg• Johnson ___ 6, ~.

s.

189B

Charles W. Nuttlng ......6. M.
Evenln4 Star No. 116
Born Oct. 3 1852
Died Sept. M, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ...... D. G . M.
Motely H. Flint....- ..S. G. W.
Edw. H. Hart_____J. G. W.
Edward Coleman......__ G. T.
Georg• Johnson ___ 6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ......- ...6. L

1904

1893

1899

1905

s.

Charles L Patton ..- ...... G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Born 1865
Died April II, 1923
Jas. A. Foshay.. _...... D. 6. M.
Wm. S. Wells..____ G. W.
0. S. Henderson.•....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.....- ...6. T.
George Johnson _ _6. S.

s.

1900

s.

1914

1896

s.

George W. Hunter......G. t.4.
Humboldt No, 1'
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, 1925
Motley H. Flint........ D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart..___ G. W.
Geo. M. Perine __J. G. W.
Edward Coleman...- ..- ..G. T.
George Johnson _____ 6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards..____ .6. L

Jeme1 B. Stevens ..........G. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn Merch 27.1. 1141
Died Dec. 6, hit
Edw. M. Preston ....- .D. G. M.
Thomes Flint_____J, G. W.
Wm. T. Luc:u___ 6. W.
Edwerd Col•mH.·---6. T.
6eorge Johnson ___&. S.

1908

Edward M. Preston.-...6. M.
Nevada No. IJ
Born Mar 4, 1141
Died Aprll 24, 1903
Wm. T. Luc:e1. ___ D. G. M.
Thom•• Flint.___ G. W.
F. M. AngellottL....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman....___ G. T.
Georg• Johnson _____ 6. S.

Frank M. Angellottl.._.6. M.
Marin No. 191
lom S.pt. 4, 1161
Died Mer 23, 1m
Chas. L. Patton ___ D. G. M.
Jes. A. Foshey____ G. W.
Wm. S. Wells... ___ ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.._. __ ..G. T.
George Johnson ··---·6• S.

1894

1919

Georg• M. Perlne.-....6. M.
Pacific: No. 116
lorn 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1'33
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler.._........S. G. W.
W. Frank Pierce...•.... J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............ G. T.
Georg• Johnson _____ 6, S.
Thomas J. Baker.......---·G. L

CharlN R. Gritmen ___ 6. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn Dec. 10, 1111
Died M•r 14, 11'4
Hanry S. Orme.. ___ D. 6. M.
Jes. B. Steven1.....- ...S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding __6. T.
&eorg• Johnson ···--···6• S.

Henry S. Orm•-··--·6• t.4.
So. C.llfoml• No. 278
Born March 25l IP7
Died NoY. 2', t12
Je1. B. Steven1.._ ... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston..--..S. G. W.
Wm. T. Luca1_____•.J. G. W.
Edwerd Coleman.. _._G. T.
6eorge Johnson _ _&. S.

1913

1907

1901

William S. Wells..____ $. M.
Martlnn No. 41
Born June 24, 1161
Died Jan. 23, 1919
O. S. Handerson ..- .. D. G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting __ G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter _J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ______ &. T.
George Johnson -·-····6• S.
Wm. H. Edward1 .......- ... G. L

s.

James A. Foshay............6. M.
So. Callfornla No. 211
lorn Nov. 23, I85'
Died Jen. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells. ____.. D. G. M.
0. S. Henderson __ G. W.
Chas. W. Nutting ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ____.G, T.
George Johnson ____ 6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ...___..&. L

s.

459

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

s.

Motley H. Flint..............6. t.4.
E.st G•te No. 290
lorn Feb. It, 1161
Died Julr 14, 1930
Edward H. Hart........ D. 6. M.
Geo. M. Perine...- ...S. G. W.
Rauban H. Lloyd......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.•.___.G. T.
George Johnson ___6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards.___ &. L

1906
Edward H. Hart ··-·--··G. M.
Uve Oat No. 61
lom 1158
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perlne..._... D. G. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd .•._.S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler _ _.J, G. W.
Edward Coleman...____ &. T.
George Johnson --····&. S.
Wm. H. Edwerd1......____ 6. L

1909

1•

W. Fran\: Pierc:•····-······G. M.
Oati.nd No.
lorn Jan. 16, llSS
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dana R. Weller _...... D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe .......•....S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer ...•--J• G. W.
Edward Coleman ............G. T.
John Whicher..-·--·-·-···G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L

1910
Dana R. Weller .............. G. M.
So. C.llfornla No. 278
lorn March 24, 1174
Died Jan. t, 1'47
A. J. Monroe ............ D. G. M.
Wm. P. Fllmer... ____S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey .......: .. J. G. W.
Edward Colemen ............ G. T.
John Whlcher.•........- ...... 6. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........- ... 6. L

1911
Alonzo J. Monro•···---·6. M.
Humboldt No. 1t
Born Od. 19 1851
Died June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer....- .... D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey..........S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen .......- ...G. T.
John Whlcher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.---·--6. L

1912

John D. Murph•Y·-··-···6• M. Charles Albert Adams..G. M.
Excelslor No. 166
Alt• No. 333
Born Nov. 25, 1167
Born Julr 7, 1163
Geo. F. Rodden ........ D. G. M.
Died S.pt. 15, 1'41
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ D. G. M. Sam. E. Burke........- •. S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett........S. G. W. Wm. A. Sharman ......J. G. W.
F. V. Keesling ............J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- ......G. T. John Whic:her...•. - ·-········G· S.
John Whic:her.•---···6. S. Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L.
Thomas J. Baker._____ ...6. L.

1915
Albert G. Burnett.......... G. W.
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born April t, 185'
Died Au;. 15, 192J
F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey ......S. G. W.
Bradford Webster....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ...- .....G. T.
John Whicher .............- ... 6. S.
Thomas J. Baker............. G. L.

1916
Francis V. Keesling ........G. M.
Callfornla No. I
lorn Feb. 17, 1177
Wm. Rh. Hervey ..... .D. G. M.
Bradfor.d Webster....S. G. W.
Charles A. Adam1 .... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..·--··-··6. L.

1917

1920

1921
Samuel E. Burke............6. M .
Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Wm. A. Sherman ...... D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crlte1........S. G. W.
David J. Reese ..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..- -·-········-G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.______ 6, L.

1922
William A. Sherman ...... G. M.
Presidio No. 354
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Arthur S. Crite1........ D. G. M.
David J . Reese ...... _..S. G . W.
Alb. E. Boynton ........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whlc:her..................6. S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L.

1923

S. Crites .........._6. M.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .... G. M. Arthur
Bakersfleld No. 224
Pentalpha No. 202
Born
Feb. 4, tm
Born March 26, ll70
Died Apr. 28, 1957
Died Feb. I, 1'1'53
Bradford Webster .... D. G. M. David J. Reese .......... D. G . M.
Charles A. Adams ....S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton........S. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ........J. G. W. Geo. L. Jones ............J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..---···G. T.
John Whic:her.............- ...6 . S. John Which er-··-·--···&• S.
Thomas J . Baker ........ _....G.. L. Thomas J. Baker..............6. L.

1918

Wm. P. Filmer............. G. M. Bradford Webster ........ 6. M.
live Oak No. 61
Kin; Solomon No. 260
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Born March 2, 186'
Died June 4, 1941
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey ......D. G. M. Charles A. Adam1.... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ........S. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ........S. G. W .
Alb. G . Burnett .... _.J. G. W. Sem. E. Bur\:e ............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whic:her•.................6. S. John Whlc:her.•..- ........... G. S.
Thomas J. Beker .... - ........6. L Thomas J. Baker .....- ..-.6. L

1924
David J. Reete .............. G. M.
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
Born Au;. 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Alb. E. Boynton ........D. G. M.
Geo. L. Jones ............S. G. W.
Will H. Fi1cher:.........J. G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... 6. T.
John Whic:her.....---·-·-··6· S.
ThomH J. Baker. ____ .•.- 6. L

460

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

461

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1925

1931

1937

Albert E. Boynton.......... G. M.
Orovllle No.103
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Died Feb. 22, 1945
Geo. L Jones............ D. G. M.
Will H. Fischar ..... - ...S. G. W.
Gus. A. HutefL .......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
John Whicher..................6. S.
ThomH J. Baker.............. G. L.

Robt. B. 6eylord .......... G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born No.,, 24, 1876
Died Aug. 4, 1953
Frank W. Mixter ...... D. G. M.
James B. Gist............S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton ..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher ..................G. S.
Thomes J. Beker .............. G. L.

James T. FrHer..............G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Au11. 28, 1868
Died June 26, 1953
Leon O. Whitsell ...... D. G. M.
William H. Waste....S. G. W.
William B. Ogden ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... 6. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G. L

1926
George L. Jones ............ 6. M.
Madison No. 23
Born May 11, 1873
Died June 22, 1956
Will H. Fischer........ D. G. M.
Gus. A. HutafL ....... S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L.

1927
Will H. Fischer.............. G. M.
Wllshlre No. 445
Born Sept. II, 1875
Died Oct. 4, 1953
Gus. A. HutafL ....... D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg ....S. G. W.
J. S. Ross.................... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. 6. S.
Thomes J. Baker .............. G. L.

1928
Gustav A. HutafL....... G. M.
Dunsmuir No. '2'17
Born Oct. 5, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg .... D. G. M.

J. S. Ro11 ..................S. G. W.
Robt. B. 6aylord...... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomes J. Baker .........-.J:;. L.

1929
C. M. Wollenberg ........ G. M.
Starr King No. 344
Born March 13, 1873
John S. Ross.............. D. G. M.
Robt. B. 6eylord ......S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.................. 6. S.
Thomas J. Beker..............G. L.

1932

1938

Frank W. Mirler............ G. M.
Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, 1873
Died May 22, 1947
James B. Gist............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton ..........S. G. W.
R. v. Whiting ............ J. ·s. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Beker.............. G. L.

Leon 0. WhitselL ....... G. M.
Orange &roye No. 293
Born July 10, 1876
William H. Waste .... D. G. M.
William B. Ogden .... S. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G. L

1933

William B. Ogden ........ G. M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born Aug. 26, 1876
Died Sept. 12, 1954
Lloyd E. Wilson ........ D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith ........S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher .................. G. S.
Walter Leonard .............. G. L

James B. Glst................ 6. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Aug. 8, 1868
Died April 25, 1954
R. V. Whiting ............ D. G. M.
Earl Werren ..............S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller ........J. G. W.
W!'::. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.............. G. L

1934

1939

1940

Randolph V. Whiting .... G. M.
King Solomon No. 260
Rorn Nov, 30, 1870
Died Feb. 4, 1952
Earl Werren .............. D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller........S. G. W.
James T. Freser........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G. L

Lloyd E. Wilson .............. 6. M.
lngleslde No. 630
Born Aug. 16, 1895
Frank M. Smith .......... D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood ........ S. G. W.
Claude H. Morrison .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Walter Leonerd ..............G. L.

1935

Frank M. Smith ..............6. M.
East Gate No. 290
Born April I, IB94
Died Aprll 7, 1951
Leslie E. Wood .......... D. G. M.
Claude H. Morrison ..S. G. W.
G. C. DeForest........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........G. L.

1930

Earl Werren .................... 6. M.
Sequoia No. 349
Born March 19, 1891
Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M.
James T. Freser......•.S. G. W.
Leon 0. Whitsell...... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G. L

John Stewert Ross ........ G. M.
El Centro No. 384
Born Mar 21, 1879
Died Aug. 31, 1952
Robt. B. Geylord ......D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter ........ S. G. W.
James B. 6ist............ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmar .......... 6. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomes J. Baker ..........-.G. L

Rollie W. Miller............ G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, IB83
James T. Freser........ D. G. M.
Leon 0. Whitsell......S. G. W.
William H. Weste ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher .......- ......-.6• S.
Leslie E. Wood .........- ....G. L

1936

1941

1942
Leslie E. Wood .............. G. M.
Provident No. 609
Born April 2, 1897
Claude H. Morrison .. D. G. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest.. S. G. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wil1on ..............6. S.
Chester H. Werlow........ 6. L.

1943

1948

1954

Claude 1-1. Morrison ......6. M.
San Dle110 No. 35
Born July 10, 1887
Died NoY. 2, 1953
Gilbert C. DeForest.. D. G. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson......._ ....6. S.
Chester H. Warlow..- ...G. L

Edward H. Slems..........6. M.
Plymouth No. 560
Born December 7, 1903
Ellsworth Meyer........ D. G. M.
Arthur Peulsen ..........S. G. W.
Louis C. Drapeau......J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ............ G. S.
Arthur M. Warren ..........6. L

Henry C. Clausen ..........G.M.
lngleslde No. 630
Born June 30, 1905
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr•.. D.G.M.I
L Harold Anderson_.S.G.W.
Leo E. Anderson ..........J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems..............G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Elbert W. Davis.................G.L

1944

1949

1955

Gilbert C. DeForest...... G. M.
Reading No. 254
Born Sept. 18, I B89
Died Jan. 25, 1952
Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Broulllet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore ..........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling. __ .G. T.
Lloyd E. Wllson ..............G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........G. L

Ellsworth Meyer ............6. M.
Llberal Arts No. 677
Born Feb. 27, 1905
Arthur Paulsen .......... D. G. M.
Louis E. Drapeau ...... S. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ....J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L

Edgar V. Stewart, Jr•.... G.M.
Loyaltr No. 529
Born Oct. 3, 1901
L. Harold Anderson .. D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson ........S.G.W.
Phil N. Myers ..............J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems............G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...........-.... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis..............G.L

1945

1950

1956

Arthur Paulsen ____6. M.
Trinity No. 27
Born Mar 4, 1890
Louis C. Drapeau.._.D, 6. M.
Arthur M. Werren ....S. G. W.
Frank Harwell, Jr-...J. G. W.
Francis V. KeeslinCJ ..- ... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........._.G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G.L

L. Harold Anderson ..._ ..G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, 1900
Leo E. Anderson ........ D.G.M.
Phil N. Myers..............S.G.W.
Joe L. Shell..................J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems..............6.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..-........... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis................G.L

Lawrence C. Kelley...... 6. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 23, IB89
Died Oct. 24, 1945
Arthur W. Brouillet...... G. M.
Park No. 449
Born Jan. 21, 1814
Died Sept. 18, 1953
John R. Moore ........S. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Chester H. Warlow........ G. L

1946
John R. Moore .............. 6. M.
Meridian No. 6'7 •
Born Sept. 1193
Chester H. Warlow.. D. G. M.
Edward H. Siems......S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Arthur M. Werren ..........G. L.

1947
Chester H. Warlow...... G. M.
Fresno No. 247
Born June 30, 1889
Edward H. Siems...... D. G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer........S. G. W.
Arthur Paulsen ........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Arthur M. Warren .......... G. L.

1951

1957

Louis C. Drapeau .......... G. M.
Poinsettia No. 633
Born Aug. 30, 1885
Arthur M. Warren .. D. G. M
Frank Harwell, Jr-... S. G. W
Henry C. Clausen ....J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ......•.G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L.

Leo E. Anderson.-.......... G.M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born February 20, 1902
Phil N. Myers ............ D.G.M.
Joe L. Shell.. ..............S.G.W.
Alfred F. Breslauer... _..J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems............ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......- .......G.S.
Elbert W. Davis.•-······-···G.L

1952

1958

Arthur M. Warren ........ G. M.
Mt. Davidson No. 481
Born December 27, 1901
Frank Harwell, Jr ..... D. G. M.
Henry C. Cleusen ....S. G. W.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........- .... G. S.
Elbert W. Davis.....-........G. L

Phil N. Meyers................ G.M.
McCloud Lodge No. 430
Born, January 12, 1897
Joe L. Shell .................. D.G.M.
Alfred F. Bresleuer...... S.G.W.
Guy B. Mize................ J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems.........__G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...........- ...6.S.
Elbert W. Davis................6.L

1953

1959

Frank Harwell, Jr-.......G. M.
Beverly Hiiis No. 528
Born October 4, 1898
Henry C. Clausen.... D. G. M.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr •..S. G. W.
L. Herold Anderson ..J. G. W.
Francis V. KHsling ...- ..... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson... ____G. S.
Elbert W. Devis.........- •. 6. L

Joe L. Shell......................G.M.
San Dl9110 No. 35
Born February 18, 1892
Alfred F. Breslauer...... D.G.M.
Guy B. Mize..._...........S.G.W.
Ira W. Cobum ............J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems_.. _ .......6.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Elbert W. Davis.._ .........6.L

462

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

IMpectora

UST OF INSPECTORS
IMpectora

Date of Commiasion

Disfricl

S. Leslie Hawken -······-················-···January 27, 1925..·-··-··-··-··-··-·-··.364
Clarence L. Fraser....................................December, 1927···-··-··-··-··-··-·-··'°"
Wm. S. Thompson..·-······························-·······March, 1928..........·-··-··-······-···412
Niles 0. Millar ......................................·-········-··.July, 1932..........·-··-··-······-···348
Herbert R. Hargrave·-···-··-·····-········September 15, 1934.·-···-··-----·-··--·418
John Behrens ···-··································-- ·January 2, 1935.•·-··-·······-·-··-··-···378
Samuel Dollar ............................................December, 1935.. ·-······-··············-···418
Willard G. Babcock...................- ...........January 10, 1938..·-······-··-·-··-··-···818
Carl F. Peters..·-··-····-··········-············.November 1, 1936................................534
George S. Ward...--················-···········--·January 1, 1937................................104
Fred Weed .. ·-··········································-·September, 1938................................642
Guido de Ghetaldi... .....................................October, 1938... _...........................306
Roy H. Lenthall....................... ·-···········-·-··.January, 1939...............- ...............354
J. Wesley Sibole..........................................December, 1939................................ 224
Harold S. Morrison............................... .December 1, 1940...........- ...................512
Elmer M. Hopper... _.......................................May 10, 1943......•.............•..- .......304
Melvin R. Berbower............................November 10, 1943.. ·--············-······-···824
Frederic E. Clark....................................January 26, 1944................... _........... 530
Dwight C. Freeman................ ·-···········-·······March 2, 1945........................... - ...548
James B. Lawson..........................................March 6, 1945 ................................428
Arch Balchin..................................................March 27, 1945................................392
Edward C. Lohmeyer........................September 27, 1945................................322
Alexander Duncan...-············-··········--···October 9, 1945......·-··-··-··-··-······.301
Robert W. Nicol.......................... ······-···October 24, 1945..........·-··-···············812
Louis L. Cunningham ................................August 2, 1946.._ .........·-··-··- ·······538
W. Ralph Anderson..._.......................... .November 4, 1946....................... - .......380
Frank W. Johnson ..... _.........................November 21, 1946..·- ······-··············-··.IS4'
Stephen E. Skidmore.................................- ...Aprll 7, 1947-·- ···························808
Fred C. Prttschke.--··························-·-- ·-.Aprll 7, 1947 ..·-···············-······-···'18
Harry Burrows ....................................December 15, 1947........................... - ..302
Russell Northrop..................................December 20, 1947 ...- .......................... .SU
Frank R. Killinger, Jr........................ .December 29, 1947................................388
Howard S. Kaulbach............................December 29, 1947......................·-·-·'·358
Roy T. Kiele....................................................April 22, 1948................................1542
Elmer Glen Van Tassell... ................. September 11, 1948................................112
Reginald Reynolds............................... November 15, 1948................................108
Louis H. Mahler........................................January 31, 1949..................·- ··-·······1520
Orin Compton.·-····-········-·················-.February 9, 1949................................420
John A. Owen. ......................................._._.May 16, 1949................................1550
Chas. A. Thomasset............................--1une 28, 1949................................570
William Nankervis, Jr..............................- ..June 30, 1949................................382
Wilson Ernest Lathrop..............................October 1, 1949................................410
Robert H. Taylor.................. .................. November 7, 1949................................348
Earl Caldwell...........................................January 16, 1950................................324
Delbert E. Luck......................................... - ...Aprll 14 1950................................408
Elmer R. Lotz..-...........................................April 14, 1950................................1522
Elvin C. Drake •.............................................April 14, 1950................................528
Anson McArthur...........................................- ..May 8, 1950................................552
Chas. W. Lunsford............................................May 8, 1950...........................- .. .IS58
Martin 0. Veland.........................................-.~ay 8, 1950..................·--··-··.IS58
Paul Thompson....·-················-····-············--...MaY 8, 1960.................·--··-··582
Hugh D. Good. .............·-······························-·..May 8, 1950.......... ·- ······-······-···838
Ted R. Siema.·-··-----··-----·--·...MaY 8, 1960...........-··-··-·-··-···814

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

463

Date of Commiulon

Dillric&

Leland E. Wallace..·--····-··-----September 7, 1950..·-····--··-··-··-·-··.204
Frank W. Raddatz...·-··-··--··---··.November 24, 1950..·-··---··-··-···-·-··.IS46
Joseph Myron Ruggiero..·--··-··-- -.December 21, 1950..·- ··········-·-···--···332
Guy S. Harts, Sr.................... _.............December 21, 1950..·-····--··············-···508
J. Ralph Dawdy...................................- ...January 26, 1951.........................•.- ...422
Andre L. Armand..............·-····-············.January 26, 1951......................... _ ...378
Jack Walton Leishman.........................- .......May 18, lmil...- ...........................337
George H. Olmsted..................................October 18, 1951...............- ...............218
Reginald Bunce........................................ October 23, 1951................................545
Charles Joseph Savage...- .....................November 6, 1951................................840
Ballard White, Jr...................................December 12, 1951..·-······-··-··-··-·······120
Kenneth C. Stanley..............·-····-··--····.February 7, 1952................................836
Wilfred W. Partridge..............·-·····--··-··.Marcb 31, 1952................................502
Lynn A. Blackmun...........................- ........ .Marcb 31, 1952 ................................503
Edward Farley..·-··-···--·-··---····-.May 12, 1952................................208
Burrell Clifford JulL...
....... _...May 12, 1952................................212
Harry K. Widup...·-··---·-·-···November 10, 1952................................344
Milton H. Lang.·-··-··--··--··-·...November 14, 1952................................540
J. Harry Snowden..·--··-··--··-·-.....December 9, 1952................................606
Fred L. Ferguson........·-·-····-·--··-··-··.January 1, 1953...................- ...........618
Henry P. Lawborn.....--·--·---··-··.January 19, 1953................................568
Harry H. Aiman...
··-----··-··.March 2, 1953................................844
Paul A. Hackler...-·-·--··--·--·-·--.March 26, 1953..............·-··········-···330
Samuel Steelman....................·-···-······-··-··.April 17, 1953..·-··-··-·····-·-·-128
Sam Lovell...... ·-··-··-························-···········June 25, 1963.·-··-······-··-··-······.214
Robert Edgar.. ·-···-·-··-··---··-··-···-·-···August 27, 1953·-··-···--·-··-··384
Ray Earl Burdg..........·-··-···-········-·····September 5, 1953.·-··-·-·----.217
James E. Finley...........................- ...........October 10, 1953...- ...- .........-..328
E. Lloyd Hanson ..........................................January 1, 1954................................360
John H. Ferguson ........................................January 1, 1954................................822
Raymond Glenn Hollar.. ·-··--·-----···January 1, 1954..·-··-··-··-··-·-··---.220
Milton Hoffe Sharp..................................February 1, 1954...........- ...................210
Gordon F. Porter....................................February 10, 1964...- ...........................514
Claiborn Schonhoff......................................March 12, 1954................................402
Wallace H. Fiske..........................................March 12, 1954..·-··-·-·---··-··-···404
Fred Walker Waitman..................................April 19, 1954.................·---··-···518
Hugh M. Topping........................................... .April 19, 1964.......................- .......588
Norbert Peter Tester......................................June 30, 1954................................ 646
Otto F. Link. ...........................................November 17, 1954................................215
Ralph W. Collins....................................December 15, 1954...................- ...........515
Ray Smith................................................December 15, 1954................................554
Charles M. Coffiand......................... _.........January 1, 1955........... - ...................564
Palmer A. Wells..........................................January 7, 1955................................222
Clarence C. Smith.........................- ...........January 7, 1955................................338
Alva A. Daniells................. _.....................January 13, 1955................................427
Henry Drashner...............................____ .February 14, 1955................................504
William C. Brouillard..·-···············-··-··········.April 8, 1955................................116
Adolph H. Franzen. ............- .............................May 1, 1955................................336
Harry L. Muller...................- ...........................May 11, 1955................................319
Edward C. Will................................................July 14, 1955................................387
Frank Leroy Sutliff......................................August 9, 1955................................567
Carl E. Moore................................................October 3, 1955................................432
Ralph M. Hinds ..........................................October 29, 1955...- ...........................318
James L. Miles......·-··-······-············-··-··.December 9, 1956..............·-··-······-···549
Hector McD. Moir..................................December 15, 1965..·-··-··-··-······-··-···382
Charles Frederick Chapman.......- ...........January 6, 1958...............- ...............IS&O
William M. McKenney................·-··-·······January 6, 1958...................- ...........430
William Waters Shugart ·-·····--··········.January 6, 1956.......................- •.•..•.431
Freeman George Sanders......·-·····-·····January 20, 1956.......................- .......394
Frederick L. Brown. ................·-·-···-··--.March 5, 1968..- ..........- ..- ..- .......372

i64

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

lrupeciors

Date of Commission

Di.arid

Harold F. Trafton......................................... .April 24, 1956................................388
A. Bird Cross................................................... .May 20, 1956........... - ...................629
Marion Bruce Myers..................................... .May 20, 1956................................118
Russell F. Bragg..............................................July 16, 1956................................601
Daniel Kleiman ..............................................July 16, 1956................................411
Joseph L. Ousley............. _............................ .July 16, 1956................................602
E. Ross Baylis..................................................July 25, 1956................................365
Floyd O. Mason................................................July 30, 1956.......... ·-···················625
Kenneth Dowell ........................................August 20, 1956................................605
Earl Moore Vigus..................................... .August 23, 1956................................603
Hubert J. Raymond................................. .August 29, 1956................................632
Ralph W. Cutler ........................................August 31, 1956...........................- ...516
Wayne A. Dahling..............................September 11, 1956................................206
Evan E. Hall.. ..................................... September 11, 1956................................228
Walter Clayton ....................................November 23, 1956................................421
Field Thompson ..................................November 27, 1956................................538
Leslie S. Wayman................................ November 27, 1956................................539
Lewis Arthur Pugh................................December 3, 1956........... _...................510
George T. Rowse ......................................January 1, 1957•.....·-··-··--····-··--.314
Glendall W. McDermott........................January 1, 1957................................308
Ulysses George Patropulos....................January 1, 1957................................333
George Q. Evan~ ......................................January 4, 1957....................... - .......519
George W. Perkins ..................................January 16, 1957................................556
Walter V. Durst... ............ - .......................January 17, 1957................................352
Clarence E. Shoaf....................................January 25, 1957................................316
Berrell Roberts Ries................................... .April 1, 1957................................634
Alton T. DuRant... .......... - .............................April 18, 1957................................620
Jc_>hn Allen Kline......................................... .April 18, 1957................................626
~idn~y A. Webster..........................................May 9, 1957................................300
i:wlS H1h Field.................. ·-·····················May 15, 1957................................637
WJnfield cott McLees..........•.......................May 15, 1957................................639
R ey L. Blurton..............................................May 24, 1957................................628
Fi;ank N. Long ................................................July 31, 1957................... -...........374
Victor Prenk......................................... September 5, 1957......·-··············-·······320
R: Wayne Milton .................................. September 5, 1957................................506
Richard W. Clark. ...............................December 15, 1957...... ·-··-···················310
James E. Bacon..._...............................December 15, 1957................................511
~<_> Ragghianti.. .....................................January 1, 1958................................368
Philip Stembridge Hunt..........................January 1, 1958.......................- .......610
Lester Howard Casagrande....................January 1, 1958......·-··--·-··-··-··-···ll 7
Albert A. Bryceson..·-··············-··············.January 1, 1958......·-··············-··-··-110
Jack R. Grove..·-··············-··-·················January 15, 1958..•...........·-··········-··-109
Hugh G. Martin..·-··········-··-··················---April 28, 1958..........·-··-······-·······227
Lloyd Ario Countryman...- ...................•.August 13, 1958•.........·-··-···············114
Edward A. Stone·-····-·······················September 16, 1958..•...............·-······-··.533
Charles L. Foster_....................................January 1, 1959.......................- .......334
Carlton H. Rothblum.........- .....................January 1, 1959._.............................342
Samuel G. Clark........................................January 1, 1959................................326
Clarence Albert Wood. ...........................February 2, 1959................................226
Alfred Johnson ........................................February 9, 1959................................361
Donald W. Casten................................February 27, 1959................................390
Walter Kenneth Reed. ...............................March 16, 1959................................630
Stanley K. Coates...- .....................................-April 5, 1959................................307
Daniel D. Rowlands.............................- .........April 6, 1959.•..............................340
Percy W. Lindt..·-···········································June 4, 1959.•.........- ...................106
Elmer E. Ross....·-···········································June 8, 1959.•- ...........................366
Stuart C. Williamson................................August 17, 1959--··························.370
Frank P. Lemen..•.•- ...................................October 8, 1959............................... .218

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
R1eogniz11tl tmtl in Prasmsal Relalions with th•
Grtmtl Lotlg11 of Cal;fornid

Argentina:
Alcibiades Lappas, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Austria:
Fritz Blum, Grand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse -12,
Vienna 1, Austria
Bolivia:
Humberto Frias Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 554,
La Paz, Bolivia.

Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Aere
Joaquim Gomes Loureiro, Grand Secty., .
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
.
.
Sergio Alexandre lvanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Ernesto Evangelista, Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Mario Herdy Silva, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
.
.
Alpheu Feri;eira Linhares,_Grand S~cty. of Foreign Relations
Florianopohs, Santa Catarma. Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Wilson Achilles da Silva, Grand Secty.,
.
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Para
Otto L. Hiltner, Grand Secty. of For~ign Relations
Caixa Postal 156, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
Odemar Nacre Gomes, Grand Secty.,
.
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel. Ext.•.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande :po Sul .
.
Oswaldo Baucke, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
lvo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.,
.
.
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
Canada:
AlbertaEdward B. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
330-12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.

465

466

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

British Columbla- J. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour SL, Vancouver , B. C.
Canada-(P rovince of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon, Grand Secty..
P.O. Box 217, Hamilton. Ontario.

Manitoba -

Thomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba.
New Brunswic kA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 430, St. Johns, New Brunswick .
Nova ScotlaHa:rold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.
P. O. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandF. A. Van Iderstine, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlotteto wn, P. E. I.
QuebecH. Pickering, Acting Grand Secty.,
1559 St. Marks St., Montreal, Quebec
Saskatche wanGrand Secty.,
P. O. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchew an.
Cbller
Cesar Bunster C., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
Chlna1
W. H. T. Wei, Acting Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan, China
Colombia:
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.
Gran Logia Occidental ,
Julian Hoyos Rebolledo, Grand Secty.
Apartado Aereo No. 4020, Cali, Colombo
National Grand Lodge of Colombia at Barranqui lla
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander ''
National Serene Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagen11
Ernesto A. Florez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Nal No. 16, Cartagena, Colombia.
Costa Rica:
Rafael Obregon L., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 3282, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba, Isle of:
Eduardo R. Lopez B., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.
"Csecho-S lovakia:
Grand Lodge Le5sing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slo vakia at Prague.
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeAlfred Nyvang, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsv ej 23, Copenhage n, Denmark.

Egypll

The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.

g!~dp~~!}; No. 1714, Cairo, Egypt.

El Salndor (Cmcatlan ):
Carlos Alfllonsoo <;:asttelNlanoo2s7, ~~~a=~ El Salvador, C. A .
2a Ca e r1en e
· •
'
England:

James w. Stubbs, Grand Secty.
Freemason s Hall, London, England.

Ftnland:

Lauri Sarkia, Gr~nd Secty.,H lsink' Finland.
P. Esplanaad ikatu 35E, e
i.

France:
French National Grand Lodie,
Mark S. DradbbBle, GranNdeSectuillyY:~ur-Seine Paris, Franct!.
65 Boulevar
meau,
'
Tile Grand Lodge of Franc~,
Emmanuel Drapanask 1, Grand Secty.,
8 Rue Puteaux, Paris 17, France.
Greece:
•
Dr. Panayiotis Hadjipetro s, Grand Secty.,
33 Skoufa St., Athens, Greece.
Guatemala 1
Lauro A. Rivera F., Grand Sectr., C A.
Apartado 48, Guatemala City, ·
Honduras:

Abel Villacorta C., Grand Secty., H d
Apartado 336, Teguclgala pa, on uras. C. A .
Iceland:
Olafur Gislason, Grand Secty., . .
Borgartun 4, (Box 44) ReykJavik, Icelan d .
Ireland:

J. o. Harte, Grand Secty., .
Freemason s Hall, Dubhn, Ireland

Israel:

Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
E. Dubinsky, Grand Se~ty..
P. o. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel.

467

468

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

ItaJy1
The Grand Oriente of Italy
U~be~o 9~noya, Gran'd Secty.,
Via G1ustimaru, 5, Rome.
Japan
George B. Mor~lis, Grand Secty.,
No. 13-1, Shiba, Sakae-Ch o• Minato-K u , Tokyo, Japan.
Mexico:
York qrand Lodge ol Mexico
Mmo M. Covo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.

Grand Lodge ol Baja Californi a
Fernando Cesena Castro, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 57, Tecate, Baja, Californi a.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Enrique Rosales Alonso, Grand Secty
Apartado 171, Chihuahu a, Chili., Me~ico.
Grand Lodge ol the Paci.tic
Miguel F. Anzaldo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas , Sonora, Mexico.
Gran~ Lod~e of the State ol Nuevo Leon
F1denc10 Cantu Gonzalez Grand Secty
Apartado 309, Monterre y, Nuevo Leo~ Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulip as
Bernardi no Menabrit o, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Enrique Guzman Garcia Grand Secty
"
Apartado 56, Veracruz , Ver., Mex.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Rogelio Jaime S., Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Netherlan ds:
Grootoos ten der Nederlan den
Dr. P. J. vanLoo, Grand S~cty
2 Fluwelen Burgwal, The Hagiie.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales
'
James .s. Miller, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Hall, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hew Zealand:
F. G. Northern , Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1833, Wellingto n C. I., New Zealand
·
.Nicaragu a:
Greg A. Tapia, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 102, Managua , Republic of Nicaragu a.
.Norway:
Odd Lie-D~vidsen, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama:
Nathan A Reid, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.

469

Peru a
Cesar Osores Munoz, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 587, Lima, Peru.

Philippin e Islands:
Esteban Munarriz , Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcelin o, Manila, P. L
Puerto Rico:
E. Isales, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 8385, Santurce , Puerto Rico.

Queensla nd:
V. L Carter, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia .
Scotland :
Alexande r F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinburg h, 2, Scotland.
South Australia :
F. J. Ellen. Grand Secty.,
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaide, So. Australia .

Sweden:
Sven Svedin, Acting Grand Secty.,
Frimurar eorden. Blasieho lmsgatan 6, Stockholm , Sweden.
Switzerla nd:
Grand Lodge Alpina.
Ernst Hagmann , Grand Secty.,
16 Leonard- Ragazwe g, Zurich 55, Switzerla nd.
Tasmania :
H. A Wilkinso n, Grand Secty.,
1177 MacQl.t'arie St., Hobart, Tasmani a
Venezuel a:
(Rep. of Venezuel a).
Francisco Escobar Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuel a.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodge,
C. W. Davis, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourn e, Australia .
•v1enna:
Western Australia :
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G.P.O. Box D-177, Perth, Western Australia .
•Yugoslav la1
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Cr oats & Slovenes.

•Recogni zed by the Grand Lodge of Californi a prior to being rendered
inoperati ve before and during World War II, subseque nt to which no resumption ol fraternal relations has been effected.

470

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES
A
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Fremont.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643). Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), Daly City.
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.

American River (795), Folsom
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angele1
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arabic (763), Los Angeles.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Gardena.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellftower (523), Bellftower.
Belmont Shore (716), Long Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Beverly Hills.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Cann~llta (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.

Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Compton.
Center (465), Fresno.
Central California Research Lodge
(U.D.) Fresno
Channel (757), Stockton.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thie:.q (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

471

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Citrol (656), Brea.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Clarence F. Smith (482). Los Angeles. Coronado (441), Coronado.
Claude H. Morrison (747),
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Chula Vista.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Coastside (762), Pacifica.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Culver City (467), Los Angeles.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Concord (117), Sacramento.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller (765), Gardena.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
El Rancho (759), Rico Rivera
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
El Cajon Valley (576). El Cajon.
El Camino Research, Mountain View. Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Eureka (16). Auburn.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Elmhurst (610). Oakland.

F
Fairfax (556), Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379). Fillmore.
Five Points (779), Long Beach.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

472

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABET ICAL LIST OF LODGES-Co ntinued
G

ALl'HABET ICAL LIST OF LODGES-Co ntinued

Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanzu (492). Los AnJ?eles.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Edwards.
Georgetown (25). Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358). Los Angeles.
Golden Valley (796), San Bernardino
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Granada Hills (790), San Fernando.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H

Hamilton (751), Novato.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hammonton (433), Sutter.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hills Ferry (236), Newman.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hartle:}' (199), Lakeport.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howa rd (37), Yreka .
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Heritage (764), North Hollywood.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Huntington Beach (380),
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntington Beach.
Highland (748), Highland.
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.

I
Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Inyo (221), Independence.

J

James A. Foshay (641), Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
James H. Kew (766), Inglewood.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Josiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

K
Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.
Kit Carson (734), Sacramento.

473

L
La Brea (650) Los Angeles.
Lemon Grove ~736), ~a Mesa.
La Canada (7J9), La Crescentia.
le Progres de 1 Oceanie (371),
La Cumbre (642) Santa Barbara.
Honolulu, T. H.
La Fa ette (126) 'Sebastopol.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
Laguri'a Beach (B72) Laguna Beach. Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles
La Habra (659), La Habra.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
La Jolla (518). La Jolla.
L!berty (299), Santa Cla1'.a.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lincoln (470), Sa_n Francisco.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
L!ndsay (416), Lmdsa~
Lakeshore (551) Oakland.
Live Oak (61), Oak!~ ·
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Livi_ngston (658). Livingston.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lodi.(256), Lodi. .
Lakewood (728), Long Beach.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamanda Park (627) Pasadena.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc. B
h
La Mesa (407) Le M~sa.
Long Beach (327), Long eac .
•)
L
t
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo.
Lancaster (4 37 , ancas er.
Los Altos (712), Palo Alto.
Landmark (253), Esparto.t
Los Angeles (42) Los Angeles.
La Puente (466), La Puen e.
'L B
L hmont (614) Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), os anos.
L;1°~arfaite Unio~ (17), San Francisco. Los Cerritos (674), LGg Beach.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Gatos (292), Los atos.
Lassen (149) Susanville.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton .
'Will
Loyalty (529), Los Ange1es.
t~~~~r:~h3), H~~ho~e.
Luther Burbank (752), Santa Rosa.
Lebanon (495), San Franc.isco.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Leland Stanford (784), Chico.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission (169), Sla)n ~ranD~cg~·
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Mission Bay (77 , an ie ·
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magn olia (242), SantaBBarbara.
b
k
Modesto (675) , Modesto.
Magnolia Park (715 ) • ur an ·
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angel.es.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa·
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Marin (191) San Rafael.
51) M t b llo
Mariposa ci4), Mariposa.
Montebello (4 ' on e e .
Martinez (4 l), Martinez.
Monterey (217), Monterey. h
. ( ), Maui, Kahului, T. H.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beac_ .
Maw 472
Morgan Hill (463), MoTgan Hill.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell
Morningside Park (742), Inglewood.
Maya (793), Los Angeles
star (68) • Sto ckton·
oud
(430),
McCloud.
Morning
Mccl
d
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
.
h
McKinley (347), Ric mon ·
Mother Colony (750), Anahe':ffi·
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
d
(18)
D
meville
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mountain Sha e
, ow
·
Mountain View (194),
Me norah (623), Los Angel.es.
Mountain
View.
.
Mendocino (179), M en d ocmo.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Merced (749), Merced.
( 48) c
d
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Diablo 4 . oncor .
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerne':ille.
Meudell c695 ) Bakersfield
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
M"d
(426) Taft
Mount Olive (506). Los Angeles.
Mlllfa_ig Service (570), San Francisco. MM~~~~ ~~~s\~6 ~iaRaX~aerson.
Millbrae (792), Burlingame
17) s Fr
isco
Mill Valley (356), Mill,Vaµey.
Mount Vernon (5 . an
anc
.
Mineral King (720), Visalia.
Mt. Wilson (794), Altadena

474

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

ALPHAB ETICAL LIST OF LODGE S-Contin ued

ALPHAB ETICAL UST OF LODGES-Co~tinued

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland .
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Northern California Research
Lodge, San Francisco.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynin e Palms.
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188l. Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacrament o.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Ocean Park.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.

Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportuni ty (740), Hawthorne .
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341}, Oxnard.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonvill e.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palmdale (769), Palmdale.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389). Long Beach.
Paramoun t (785), Hollydale.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H.
Peninsula (745), San Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168). Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garbervill e.

Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), No. Sacrament o.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville .
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressiv e (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacrament o.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
R
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
Richmond (375). San Francisco
Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Viata.

475

Rollin·g Hills (781), Lomita..
Rim of the World (711),
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Lake Arrowhead .
p k Rosemead (702), Roseme::id.
Rising Light (397), ;Huntingto n ar . Rose's Bar (89), Smart;Svill
e.
Riverbank (459), ~iver!Jank .
Roseville (222), Rosevi1:le.
Riverside (635), R~versid~.
Russian River (181), Wmdsor.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.

s
Security (581), Bakersfield .
Sacrament o (40), Sacrament o.
Selma (277), Selma.
Saint Elmo (697), Oakland.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.C k
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Saint John's (725~, Walnut ree .
Service (594), Long Beach.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
Sierra (788), Bass La~e.
San Antonio (694), So'!th Gate.
Sierra Madre (408), S~erra ~fadre.
San Benito (211), Hollister.B
dino Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville .
San Bernardino (348), San emar
· Signal (543), Long Beach.
San Buenaven tura (214), Ventura.
Silverado (782), Napa.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Silver Cord (505), Santa~·
San Clemente (671), s::in Clemente.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego. d
San Diego (35), SanCDieg~ by theSea Silver Trowel (415)? Hollywoo .
San Dieguito (775), art;I - · Silveyville (201), Ducon_.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
d
Sincerity (13~).; Greenville .
San Fernando (343), San Ferna~ o.
Sisson (310) Mount Shasta.
15
San Francisco (360), San Fra;n.c co.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Snow Mountain (271), Stonyford
Sanger (316), Sanger.
.
Sojourner (507), Duarte.
San Gorgonio (668), Banmp.g.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacmto.
Soquel (746), Soquel.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg .
San Jose (10), San ~ose.
Southern California (278),
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
Los Angeles.
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
Southern California Research
Boulder Creek.
.
Lodge Hollywood .
San Marino (685), San Marmo.
Southla~d (618), Los Angeles.
San Mateo (226), San Ma~eo.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
Sam Miguel (285), San Miguel.
south Pasadena (367),
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
South Pasaden.a.
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
South San FranclSCO (212),
San Pedro (322), San Pedro. .
San Francisco.
.
San Ramon Valley (724), "?anville.
South West (283), National City.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Speranza Italiana (219),
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
San Francisco.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara. Standard (440), Oakland.
Snta Cruz (38), San~ Cru~.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto. .
Santa Lucia (302), Kmg City.
Starr King (344), San FrancJ.SCo.
Santa Maria (580), RamonaM
.
.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Santa Monica (307), Santa omca.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Santa Paula (291). Santa Paula.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Santa Ynez Valley (~01), Solvanf;.
Sunnyside (577), Los An~eles.
Schofield (443), Wahiawa, Haw~u.
Sunnyvale (511), Cupertmo.
Seafaring (708), Newp_ort B.eac .
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Seal Rock (536), San Fr~cisco.
sunset (352), Los Angeles.ar vill
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
S
rise Valley (235), Ced.
e.
Searchligh t (567), Long Beach.
s~W. Hackett (574), San Diego.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.

476

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

ALPH ABET ICAL UST OF LOD GES- Conti nued

T
Table Mount ain (124), Paradi se.
Ta!ft (516), Taft.
Tehac hapi (313), Tehach api.
Teham a (3), Sacram ento.
Tejon (773), Bakers field.
Temes cal (314), Corona .
Tembl or (477), Fellow s.
Templ e (14), Sonom a.
Templ e City (612), Templ e City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautis ta..
The Garden s (621), Los Angele s.
Thous and Oaks (478), Berkel ey.
Three Pillars (613), Sacram ento.
Tila Pass (U.D.), Los Angele s
Torran ce (447), Torran ce.
Union (58), Sacram ento.
Unity (368), Glenda le.
Unive rsity (394), Los Angele s.
Vacav ille (134), Vacav ille.
Valle de France (329), Los .An·geles.
Vallej o (487), Vallejo .
Valley (135), Linden .
Valley Forge (587), Los Angele s.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nu;rs.
Verita s (640), San Franci sco.
Verdu go Hills (727), Glenda le.

Travel ers (692), Sacram ento.
Traver (294), Kingsb urg.
Triang le (548), Venice .
Trinity (27), Weave rville.
Trona (684), Trona
Trucke e (200), Trucke e.
Truth (628), Los Angele s.
Tujung a (592), TujUJnga.
Tuolum ne (8), Sonora .
Turloc k (395), Turloc k.
Tuscan (261), William s.
Two Rivers (731), Bell.
Tyre (741), Downe y.
Tyrian (439), Mante ca.

u
Upland (419), Upland .
Utopia (537), Los Angele s.

v
Vermo nt Square (515), Inglew ood
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victor ville (634), Victor ville.
Victor y (474), San Franci sco.
Visalia (128), Visalia .
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruv ius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcan o (56), Volcan o.

w
Waiki ki (774), Honolu lu, Hawa ii
Warre n G. Hardin g (579),
North Sacram ento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washi ngton (20), Sacram ento.
Wayfa rer (717), Whitti er.
Welco me (255), Lemoo re.
West Adams (565), Los Angele s.
Westc hester (703), Los Angele s.
West Covina (758), Baldw in Park.
Weste rn Star (2), Shasta .
West Gate (335), Los Angele s.
West Lake (392), Los Angele s.
West Los Angele s (373), Los Angele s.
Westm inster (787), Westm inster.

Westw ood (501), Westw ood.
White Pine (555), Weed.
Whitti er (323), Whitti er.
Willia m D. Stephe ns (698),
Los Angele s.
Willia m Rhode s Herve y (767),
Los Angele s.
Willits (365), Willits .
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmi ngton (198), Wilmi ngton.
Wilshi re (445), Los Angele s.
Winne dumah (287), Bishop .
Woodb ridge (131), Woodb ridge.
Woodl and (156), Woodl and.
Woods tock (491), Alame da.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oaklan d.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), South Gate.

Zenith (768), -Van Nuy1.

Yosem ite (99), Merced .
Yount (12),N apa.
Yucaip a (726), Yucaip a.

z

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings o_f oth~~ G~and
Lodges have appea red quarte rly in the California Freemason." two copies of which have ~een
sent to each Grand Lodge. This progr am will be
continued.
The "California Freemason" will~? issued ~uar­
terly and each issue will carry add1t1onal rev1.ews.
Hence, they do not appea r in these Proceedings.

477

478

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

479
Page

INDEX FOR 1959

Board of Control

~~;b~r~fL"i~t~~r·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::: ll~

A~i~~~astl~:d Repl~~::-ii;;~:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::== 2i~

Brigham Scholarship Fund Audit...............................---·······················-············-······· 328
Bryan, Roy Caswell, Eulogy for ........................--···-····-·······-········- ········--·-··············· 234
Budget
Legislaition ···········-······-·········································-··············-··-··········-······-··--·~··· 272
Report of Committee on FIJ1ance....................... ---·····-················--····---·········~ 255
B;:t~!.r°fr1at1ons, 1959-1960 ·······················-·--···-··-····-·········-·········-···-···················· 290
Amendments Submitted .............................................................................................. 58
Report of Committee..............·-··-······················-··-··········-·····-······--·······-··-······· 177

58

California Freemason
Auditor's Report .......................................................................................................... 297
Report of Correspondence Committee ···-··························-··········-·-·······-····-········ 184
California Masonic Memorial Temple

A
Page

~~~~iit:J Conaoltdated.......... -··-································-·-·····························-···- 98
Resolution presented

177

Annual Commun!:=,.~····--····-··············-········-·············································-·

27
~=S~!I:U~: preaented •··-:·-·•••m•n•••••••·•·---·-··---··•••••..............- ...........................33, 34

t:~ R~~~·-=::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::.~:::~·:::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~ ~~~

r~;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
A

5..~::::::::::::_~::=::::::=:::::::::=:=~==:= 2~

A~= Lodge.A_ff.t Coo~iidat~---·········································-·······························-·· 28
Attendance
········-···································~··.··········-················-· 98

A1~r~~ed···.-.==::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:·.-.-.-~·:.-.-:.-.-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~i8

~~""g;=-~~~;~~:i~~:~~~~~~~~~~ ill
B
BaJlot!og

~~J::i:is presented ·······--···········--·························································-·······39• 40
Bing~ Restrict!~··---······-··················-··-··························-·-···································· 277
ResolUltion presented -······································-······················-······························• 40

Bi~:~~~~~i~:~i;;::::~~=:::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::: ~r

~~~~r Rbi~~~-==----~~_:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ti~

Merit Roll -··----··--·-·--··········-·-·············-······--······--··········-··'···-······--12.f, 125
Officers and Trustees ·····-··-··············-··························-·······-·-·····················-····· 389
Open Book ·-·-··············-···--·······--· ···············-······-··········-··························-··········· 122
Report of Building Manager ·········-············-····························-···········-·················· 126

cf.~~~p~f1~~~;~=:::::::::::~:::=::: :~: : : : : : : : : : ~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ri~
Cemeteries (Masonic)

~~~ R!f~::'c~1~~~~--::::::=::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2?~

Centennials Observed -·-·······-·-·········-· -··········-······--·--· ···················-···-· ·········· 27
Certification ·-···--······-··-···-···········--··············-······-·················································
3
Changes of Meeting Place
Report by Grand Secretary
60
Report of By-Laws Committee···············-···············-·-··········-·········-···-··········-······· 179
Charges, Notice of
Resolution tpl'esented -·-····-··-····-··-~-·-··-····-·-··-·-··-··---···-···········-······ 43
Legislation --··-··--····-····-··- ····-····-··········-··- ··-········-···-----·- ······-·····-········ 270
Charters

-···--·····-----···---··---·-·-···-··-·-··---..St,

~~~f ~~~e_::::::.~:::::::=:::::::.~::.:::::::.:.-:.::·:::::.·:.~.~---·--:.:::·.~-~-=:::~::::~:·.:·::::.:::: 1~
~~~~ib;~====:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~j~

Christmas and Entertainment Reserve

Clubhouses, Committee Repol'ts ·······-··--·-·········-· ·-··········-···········-····················IM, 166
Code Comission, Re(IOl't of ('.ommfttee .................- ....···---····•m••-·-·······m•••OOOm••••0 155
Collection Expense, Dues
Resolution presented --------·-·-··--· ·--····--····-···-· ···-···········-···· ···-· 39
Legislation --·--·········-··-······ ··-·······-·············· ·-·-··············-··-··· ·······-······-··-··· 275
Commercialism
.
Report of Committee ···-·--·-···-·--··-·- ·-··-·-·--··-·-······ ·····-····-·····-····- ··-·- 139
Regulations Proposed ·-··-·-·-·-··-·-·· --·-···---·-··--·· -·-················· ··· 276
Legislation ·····-···············---··· ···-················-····- ····--···················- ···--······-···-····· 276
Committee Appointments

~~~ ~19~ca~-~-=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: 3~~

Committee Reports (See Re-ports of Committees)
Consolidation of Lodges -·····-················-··················-··-··--······--···························· 98
Constituent Lodges Listed
Alphabetically -·----·········-······- ·-······-··-······-····· ·-········-·-····--···- ··········-···- 470
NUmerically -·-····~-·--··--·································---······-··········-··-·············---·· 432

480

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Page

Constitutional Boards -----·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 387
Constitution Observance
Grand Master's Proclamation ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 30
Report of Committee ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 186
Constitutions of Lodges -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 23
Contributions
Christmas and Entertainment Reserve ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 373
Endowment Fund ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------100, I 04, 432
Special Reserves
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------370
Copeland,
Thomas Bentley,
Eulogy for ________________________________________________________________________ 240

~~~x::~t~~~~~~ c:·-r.x·-5;~-1~;~;;:::·.:::::::::::::::::::::_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::_:·_-_-_:::::::: 2~
Correspondence, Cammi ttee Report -·-------·--------------------------------------------------------------184, 477
Covina Home
Christmas and Entertainment Contributions -----------------·----------------------------------------- 373
Report of Superintendent -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 86
Residents Listed ---------------------------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 367
Special Reserve Audit ----------·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 345
Special Reserve Contributions ----------------------·-------------------------------·--------------------------- 367
Credentials, Report of Committee ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 220
Cubes in Ballot Box
Resolution presented ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 39
Legislation -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 277

D
Davis, Elbert W.
Report of Grand Lecturer -------------------·------------------------------------------------------------------------ 74
Decisions of Grand Master
Reported ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 20
Approved
Decato
Home---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 267
Christmas and Entertainment Contributions ------------------------------------------------------------ 373
Cornerstone ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 94

~;~~~td o~rs~~i~rrnt-~;;ci~;;t·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Residents Listed ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 358
Special Reserve Contributions ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 367
Degree Fees Tabulated -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 432
De(lrees Conferred
9

gl€~~¥;~0~ ~;;~;~te;:

.: ·~ ~ -:~ ::: :· ~:~ ;~!

Directors Masonic Clubhouses
Names of ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 389

~:~~~~ ~: ~~~kft!~~ei;~·-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~ ~~
~~~el~~~: ··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: ~~

Dispensations

Approved ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------267
Distinguished
Guests

~~~~<l:~~ecri~~:d ~-~~::~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
Dues
~~b~!~~o~yb~L~d~e~e-~~~-t-~-~:.__ ::::::_-_-::::_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-~-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~~

Dues Collection Expense

481

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~=~f;~:~~ P-~~~-e~:t_~-~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

E
Page

El Camino Research Lodge Constituted__________________________________________________________________________ 23
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850 __________________ 456
Election of Officers -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 286
Endowment Board

~~:~~iE:t;.s=~:~ ~ ~~ E~·-·=: : :E. i _·· !I

Extinct Lodges ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 452

F
Failure to Plead Not Guilty
Resolution presented ------------------------------------------------------------------------------·--------------------- 2~i

Faf;e~~=:iL~dg;-67.J:-R;~-~~~i-~f-B~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 17

Fees for Degrees

~~~J!~!cibbyGL~d~e~e~~~-~~-~:...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~i
Fiddletown Cemetery, G. M. Reference ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 17
~:~tI~'feeco~~~t~~. PR:~:~e~,{·:-_-_-_-_:::·_-_:·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:·_-_-_-_-_-_::::·_-_-_-_-_:::::-_-_-_::::::-_::·_-_-_-_:-_::::·_-_-_-_::::::·:.::::::::::: 2~j

Fine Arts, Resolution on
31
Presented ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 274

rtif<l- A~ l~ ~:~: _:_:_:_: _:_:_:_:_:_:_: _: _:_:_:_:_:_:_: : _:_:_:_:_: : : _:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_: _: : _:_: :_: ~: :_: : : _:_: : : : :_:_:_: : :_: _: : : : I~~

~~1:~~f

Foreign Grand Lod_ges

f~~~i~~~;~~~:;~,::_=~:+~~=:=:~=::=::~:=::::=:~=.E: :~

262

;'.· :ii

G
General Appendix ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 381
General Henry H. Arnold Lodge No. 791 Constituted------------------------------------------------ 23
Golden Valley Lodge 7%
56
Dispensation --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------25
Instituted ---------------- -------------------------------·--·--------------------------------------------------------------- 134
Chartered ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 23
Granada Hills Lodge No. 790 Constituted-------------------------------------------------------------------Grand Chaplain
Devotional Service ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

9

Grand Lecturer, Report of _________ ·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ~j

2
8~:~~ t:i:sAR~~r;~~~t~d"-:::-_:::::::::·.:::::::::-_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 46

Grand Mast~r (See Myers, Phil N.)
170
Grand Oration ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 200
Grand Masters' Portraits, Report of Committee ---------------------------------------------------------Grand Representatives Appointed -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ~l8

ifitWfJJ~~~~-~f~:~tE:~~t~-~I~~t+~~:-~~~~H::::::~ ~i!

182

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

Page

H
Page

Hawaii an Lodge Investments

::::::·_-_-_-_·_:~::.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.:::·_-_-_-_-_~:.-::::: 2?i
tt·~:;;1i:~:: ~~-~----~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::
····-r··········--····-··········-·································-····-···---------· 194

H~I~· ~lhrt Newt~E;}~
Home Port J~isdictionn.

183

gy or ·---·------·····--···----·······-···----······---------·········-·-··· 239

~i~~~~t:z~~~-~--::.-.-.-::::.-:.-.-.-::::::::::::=::::::::::::::.-:::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~g
l!~2a~~~j!~e··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g

Hon~~ R1~i1 --~-~~--... :::::::.~:~:~.-.-.-.-:::.~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.~:_·_·:::::.·:::::::::.~:::::~~~: i8~

Section 403 (Investment Formul a)

:::=::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-0~ ~~
~~~~~i~~i~----::::::::::=:::::::::::
Jumdiction)
2

Section 502 (Home Port

~:h::n ··:::·:.::::::::::::::::::::::=::::.~-:.:::::::::::::·.::::::::::::::::::::::-:.:::::::::::::::::::: 2~g
~~~~t~~ ··::::::::::.:::=:.::::·_:::·.:·::.:::::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:.:~:.:: 2??

Section 533 (Ballot Box)

Section 581 (Restorations)

t~~~~~!i ·:::::::::::::::::~_-.:::=:::::::::~:.:::.:::.-.·::.-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:....~: 2i~
r:~~::n ··:.:·.-_-_-.-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:.·::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.-:::::::::=: 2j~

Section 582 (Restoration Balloting)
Section 692.4 (Plea to Charge s)

I
Indemnification, Resolution on

r:~~:;:1on ··.·=::::::::.-::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::-:.::::::::::::=::: 2i~
42
~:1:i: ::::::::.~::.-.-.-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.-::::::::::::::::::::::= 269

i.~E~~=~~~~}~[~0~~~~~~~~~~~· ~!

Section 699 (Trial Master )

:::::::::::::::::::::~?: 2~6
I P;gfj~ti~:~-~~~-~::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::
---····-·-·----------------····-- 128
---·--·-····"ttee ------------····-----------····---I~~::::~~~ F=~
E:~f;1:i~c:,~s -~~~~~--:::::::::.·::::::::::::::::.·:.~::::::::::::::::::::::~.:::::::::::::::::::::21·c2~& 2~~

:::::::=:::::::::::::====::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::: 2i6
::::::::::
~:1:::767:::('R::::::::::
on)
estorati
Section
~~t::::i ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~-:.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::: 2M

···-······-···················--·····-·-----····--····-·--------- 1~~
e. Re~': orG::"nitt~~---·····-·········-··
Insu~~
........................... _________________ ,. _________________________ ., ..................................... ..
Investitient of Funds
0

J

··-········-················--···················--······ 27
···-r~·-············---·-·····
Jllri:sdi~ons V~ited
"ttee on ·····-··············-·········-·-·-········--····-----267, 279
eport o
ence,

ur1spr

K
Kohlstedt, Dr. Edward D.
--··············-···-···----·
Devotio nal Service by Grand Chapla in ·····--·····························

9

L

t:': f

277
~i p~~dtion of ....................................--................................_________________

Section 101 (Annual Communication)

34
···-··-···-··········-················-····-··-·······-···--······-····-··········---33,
c~~nti;d
1
·······-···-··-··-··-··-···············--·-··.279, 280

Secti~ ~ 1( oifi~;~;~y---······-·--·············

rre~J:i.ti;d
Sec~~ 2~6( 1~~~t·:p~;.;~~r··-

··· 34
268
·-··········
-········
··-······
···----··
-············-······-··-···

····--·-··············-···················---········-·········-····-······················--·······--·-

r:~~:1a~:n ··:::::::::::::::~-----~-.-:::::::.-:::::::::::.-:::::::.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~8

Section 702 (Right of Acouse d)

4

Section 707

4

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::: 26~
:::::::::
E:~~~~~;:(Servic
e of SummO!liS)

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 216
~:::: ::::::::::::::::::::
726 (Trial Mlaster)

Sections 718, 7'l0, 723,

Accused, Right of

t~~I:i~:: :.~~~~~-~~...::=:::::=~:::-:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2i~

34
..33. 280
%~~:i ~~~~------------------·----·······-···-···---·--·--·----·-···279,
AnR"~~=~
tion ....•~---··············-······-······--·-··········-·-·······································

Legisla
Balloting

·····-·...39•

n

········-·
2
Resoluti~:>ns presented ····--··-···-··---·-----·-············-·········
·························-··-··-···

Legislation ···-······························-··-----·-······-·················
Bingo Restrictions
······-- ·-··· 40
2
Resolution present ed ------- --·····- ·------ ······-- ········- -·-··-··

'&g::i~¥>C:1~i;;~·::::::::::::::::::::~--=:::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~i

Collection Expens e, Dues
···-········-········-········· 39
Re.solution preseoted ···---·························-··-····-········-·····
··-··-···- ···-······ · 275
···-······
-··········
···-······
--····-···
··-·······
Legislation ···-·····- ······-···

Cubes in Baltot Box

2j?
·~~~~~--:·.=::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::.-.:·.:::::::::.:::=:::::::::::::~-=
,
e
Expens
Dues Olllectioo
9
2j5
:::::::
::::::::
::::~.-:
::::::::
::::::::
:::.-:=:
::::::·=
::::::::
~5f~~~: ~~::::::
Failure to Plead Not Guilty

~~~~: ~~on .::·:.=::.::::::~:::-.::::::::::-_:::.~.-.::.:::::::.~:::-:::::::::::: 2iA

Fine Arts, Resolution

----·--··----·--·-·-··-··--.-_·:.:_:-==:::::::.::::::::::::::=:::: 2j!

Presented
Legislation ···--··· ···---- -·

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

184

485

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Page
HaRwaiian Lodge Investments
e!IOliution presented

Page

Loan Fund. Revolving
Resolution presented ···-·························-···-···-········-····· ··························-······-- 262
36

r:sfliuti?'l presented ···-·····--····-·-······--·· _
Ini:s~!~~o~~;;u;;-;;;-·---···-····-----·--····=··===::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Report of Committee --·-------····-··--········-···· ····--······-········-- 135
Committee Discontinued
278

H!::~ii?:o~cif~···::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~i
Legislation··::·:.::::::::~::::::-:_::::::::::::::::··:··································-····························· 32

1nR~~;~~~=~ted ·---··-·-----~·-···-····································-················· 215

Legislation ···-·············
--·--·-·-···-·····-·······-·-··3S , 37
Loan Fund, Revolving --·-----··---···--·--·-·-·-·· -·-···.271, 280 282
Resolution presented
'
~gisl,ation
·············-·::::::::::::::::::::::::···-···-··························································· 36
icers Coach Qualiflcatloaa
···-·-·-··---··-········-·············-········ ········ 262
Resolution presented
p 1dgislation ..............•:::::::::::::::::~::::::·:·-············-············································· 34
Re::J:c:is Investments
· ·-······-·-··················-··························· 268

Off

. 1ation
.
presented
--·······-··-·---·-··-·------·-······-·· -35, 37
···--·········Leg1sSchools
Public
Fund
-··-····-········-··-···-·········-········-·································271, 280
~esc;>slluti~:m presented ............................. .

e.g1 ation ·····-··--··--···--··- ·····························-······························-··· 219
Public Sc~ool Week Sddarshlp Award;-·········--·-·-····································272, 278
Resolution presented ···-····················-······-··-····-·············-····················
Legislation
32
Qualifications~-~;·~-·-····--··-·-······-··-·--····
/.
·············· 277
Resolution presented
- ·-··-··············-···
Legislation

·-····_::~~:::::::~::_:::······-········--·-·······-······-··········-··················· 34

RR.~:f ~~';!ion of Trial

··---····--·-··-··-··········-················ ········· 268

Re~~::1:!~~~;:··:::::~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
Resolutions presented .
Legislation
Revolving Loan Fund

---·····-=-------------·····-·-··-·-..39• 40, 43
----··---······--····-··--··--· ··---····270, 275

rug•1~i'.::,.;;.-·----·-----=---=======--=::.~= 2~
r;s~~r~on presented.....................·-····-·

···-······-··-·············-··-··-···-~--=:::::::::::::::········-·····························
42
··-······-··········-···-··········· 269

r.!;t~~on presented ························-···
.
Savings
& on
Loan Investments
Resolution presented ........

Se~~~;!~;;_;--···········::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~i
T ~lg::i:!~~~

. . ........._::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 21~

Resolution presented

T

Resolutions presented
~gislation ···-···--····.:..-••-•.===------·--·--·--·--··-·· --·······42, 43
nal Procedures
-·---··-···-·-··--·······---···--···'JJ;9, 270

~esc:>lri?'18
···-····-·----·--·--··-····----····41, 42, 43
eg1s ation presented
.....................
Leland Stanford Lodge No. 7g4·u;·~;-~·-··-···-·····-··········--··-··-···268, 269, 270
Library Commissioners Report
s
··--····-········--······--········-················· 23
Life Membership Resolutions
·······-·····--··-·-·-·····-···-·-··· -·-··-······-······· 217
Grand Secretary's Report of.
Approval of -·-·-······-···-·-··'--.------_-_-_:_ -_---··-·-·--···-··- 57
lquor Sale, G. M. Dec1s1
·-·-·-·--······-······-····-···-·-··--·-· ···· 267
L
List of Constituent Lodges··-21
-·····-·----··-·····-···-······-·-·-·-·· ··············· 432

~Y~:!~le A'~~-i~ti~-fi~~~~---·-······--·-···································-·················-···········

---·-··-··········---··-··-···············-~------··-······--

~;hahetical List ·--··-···-·-····--·--·······-·-···-········ ··-················-··········-·--- 470

.Anniversaries --·····-·····--······-····-··········-······· ···············-·····-···-·-·-·····--··- 27
Charters Authorized --····--··-···---·-···-···-·····-·- ··-·····-·-··-··-·-···- 134
Constituted _..;--·-·--··-··-··--··········-·-· ·····-··-·----··--··-······--..:.. 23
Instituted
55
Numerical LUt --·-·-·-·-··--······-·--··- -···-····---·-·---·--- 432
Lodge Finance&
G. M. Dedllooa ···-·········-·············································-···································-··- 20
Legislation ··-·-·-··--····-···--··············-········ ······-··--··················-···············271, 280
Lodge Financiag, ~of Committee·······························································-··- 143
Lodge Funds - Investment & Expenditure
G. M. Decisions ·--·········-··-·····-····································-························-···20• 21, 22

--···------····--·....25.

~~~C!~~i<l;te<l·:::::-~:::::::::::::::·~:::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·~:::::::::::~~ 2~g

Los Angeles Masonic Hall, Report~-·········································································-· 169
Luckenbach Fund Audit --·····--······-·····························-··· ···-········-·······--·······-- 327

M
Masonic Clubhouses
Berkeley Clubhouse, Report of Trustees ·············-·-················································ 166
Los Angeles Clubhouse, Report of Trustees ···············-··············-··························· 164
Trustees Listed -·-·--···-·················--··-··-················ ··-······-·············-·················· 389
Masonic History
·

r::srat::!i ~R1:~~a;ii;~::: : : : : : .~ :.·.-.·.·:.: : : : : : : : : : : : : : .-: .-: : :.-.-:.-.-.-.-.-.-.: : : : : : 1~j

Masonic Homes
Audit Report ·-·····-·-··-···-········-················--·· ······-·-·······················-···-··-··- 315
Ceremonies ·······-············································································-··············-·····-··· 90

E'~·r~~.::=.:::=-:::=~=.::::::~=:::::::~=.::::-_:::::::==.::=~:: ,H

Report of Endowment Board ..............••.................................................................... 99
Report of Superintendent - Covina ···-··································································· 86

~:~ ~1 f==-~~~~---~~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

Statistics on Residents and Cola-··-··································-········································· 369
Trustees Appointed ·······-·-···························-···-························································· 287
Masonic Homes Endowment Board

~~~~;.;,;;:~:~-=-~~==~===::::::=.:::::'.~~::=.::::::'.:::::

s

Honor
Roll
···-··························-···························
···························-··························· 108
Members
and
Otftcers. 1959-1960 ............................................................
.................. 387
Memoria1s ···-······-··········································································-··························· 106
Proclamation of Grand Master ............••......•............................................................. 29

~= ~~ t:~;:;··:.-::::.::::~:::.-.:::·::::.:·:.·.::·.::::::::::::·.-.-.::::·~:::::::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.:::::::: 1i~

Masonic Trial Procedures (See Trial Procedures)
Maya Lodge 793
Grand Master's Reference ···-··································-··-···-···--·· ···---····-·····-·--·-

=~--==:::-::-::::::.=:::::::::=.=.-::::=====::-::::-~:=~~:::: I~
18

Meeting Place--Oumges L!Sed by Grand Secretary ................................................51, 60

486

Page

tt=~~c:atributions by Lodges ---························-··-·····-···········-·························~ysls

432

jY Grand Secretary_...............--·······················-··············-························· 51

tl:~~~
es;:~--~--~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l Temple):::~::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::
Memorial Temple (See California Masonic Memoria:.::-~::::::::

!*

· ···· .................
Merit Roll
~tricts Listed ···--············································-······················································
124
M
ges .w:ted - Photograph of Plaque -········-···-······-············-···-·····-··-··-124, 125
M~~a:· of (/:/::deMas?e~~~-===-~::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l ~~
~es.sagH of GrAetings and Con~atulation ·············-····-······-··············-·-·············
··-· 286
M~l~~e pa:;::ent~olph, Eulogy r ·················-·················-······················-················
·- 235
~':fbort o Committee ·········-···--····································-········-········-········-··········-··· 221
Millbr~!a~dg~f7§2yments ···-·······················································-································ 390
r=~!dtion ························-······················································································ 55
·-····-··················································-··-······························-················-··· 25
M CharterSd ··············································-····························
··········································· 134
M~~~e:·u!ie~~~7 ~~t M. Decision................................
.................................. 21
M~ers, Phil&.
uted ••·····••············•··················•·········••····················•···•· 23

8

IJJ~~iI~~=i~!i=~~i~~iij

M~Wli~L:i;~9:ons 1958-1959 .............................................

............................... 23

······················-·······-····-·······-·······-················-···········-···················-···············

P!~~~on
Chartered ·················-·····················································-····································-······· 55
132 ~
-------------- ---------·-··· ·····-·----·--· ··--······-·--- ---·············

487

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

·······-········ ···-············ ·······-···

""I

N

Page

Installed foe 1959-1960 -······-··-······-··-······················-··········-··········-·········,··········

·

28

~

~=nb~~ac:==i~~~--::=::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: j~~

Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles, Report of Committee............................................
Opening of 1lOth Annual Communication .......- ............................................._._~:.:::·_:·.:::: 7
22
Open Installations, G. M. Oecisioos.................................................................
170
Oration by Grand Orator ······:-··················-·····-···································--·-·················
···

p
Paramount Lodge No. 785 Constituted.........---···························································· 23
·
Past Grand Ma sters. ti
·-·············
···················· 456
List 5 Ince 0 rgan1za on ···················-·················-···············-·
8

Pa~s::: cc~~~~R:~~:::::::::::::::~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Pa~~~pi!~=
e~t;·::::·.-=.::::·:.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.::::::::::: ~~~
Pension

to Past Master, G. M. Decision..•............................................................
.•....... 369
Per Capita Cost of Homes Operation ·········-······························-·········-······-···-·····:·
Per Capita Payment by Lodges ·························-············'·······················-·················· 432
Perine Endowment Fund Audit -······················-······················-···························· · 329
······· 236
Piel'S()l!I., Ralph Kilpatrick, Eulogy for ·····-······-····························································
Plural Membership, G. M. Decision.:·········-···· ·····-········ ···-··········· ········-··················27'.; 21
Policy and General Purposes Committee, Report of -············································ i" 279
· •
Porttraits of Past Grand Masters
200

pr;~::~~;~~;;'.~:~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
Proclamations

W°i~~i~~~-~--~~~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

30

PrR~~i~C:s I~~==s ···-···················································································2~~· 2~b

Pu~~~:~s -~ ~ - -~- ~ -~- - ~ ~ ~-~ - - - ~ -~ ~- - -~- ~ ~ ~ ·:.·.·-~:·.~·-·.·.·.·.·-~ :~ ~ - ~: ~ ~- ~·-·.·_·_·_~:.·.·_·_·_·_~: : :~ - ~ :~:·: :.~- -· ·-~ ii

Proclamation by Grand Master ·······-······-··········································-················
··· 156

Necrology, Report of Ccxnmittee......................·-······················-····································
· 233
New Lodges
·

~I~~~'.:=~!-;!:!~=;~-~~~~~~~~!~~~~~~ :!
0

Oak Plains Lodge No. 789 ComOtuted.....................................................................
-...
Officers' Coach QualiAcations

··

23

o!~~~~~:~;;;;,~j;:::-.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2rs
~ppoint:me~ of for 1959-1960 ............................................................

........................ 286

E=~:gof -~--~~--!~~~~~~~::·.-.:·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:.-:::::::::: 2~

~1t~:!~c~E.~-~~-~-:~:::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::_:_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i~i ~~~

Public School Week Scholarship Awards

. .: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :

r:;~:::: ~~~~~~~~

32
277

q
QuaUAcations of Officecs' Coach

34

~~1!~ p~~~-~••:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 268

R

~ecepti!f:O~tF~=~~G~!.=·············································································

25

·· 262

R:ort of Com?11~e~ --···-·······················································:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::: 465
Recognized Junsdid1ons ···'···········-·······································
Recommendations of Grand Master ···············
··························································-··· 18

488

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Page

Page

Reconsideratioo of Trial

r:~~:i ··:.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 21~

~:=~£c:!~~::ge Payments ·························································-··················· 390

-

............................-......... .... _........................................................................................

D~ ~~~n··~fGra"1~"d"~;;~;·Port;··-·················----'--·-·········-··········-··-··-··· 180

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
Lod

p.P e.

Reserve Fund Audits ··········-·-·······--·····-··········-········-······-··················-········-······ 346
Residents at Hames
Covina -·-·····--·-············- ···-··-···········-···-·· ····-····················· ··-···········-···-······ · 367
Decoto ·-········-···-·-···-·· ····-··-·-···-·····-··· ···-··········-··-··-··- ···············--··-··-- · 358
Statistics -·········-·········································-··-····························-········-····-······· 369
Residents' Deposits Audit..................·-·-························-······-··········-··········--········-·- 334
Resolutions Presented (Also see Legislation)--····· ···-······-·····-······-··········-·······-······ 31
Resolutioos Withdrawn ·-···········-····-·-- ··--··-····-········-· ···-··-···········-·-·· ·-·-- 45
Restoration Procedures
Resolutions presented ···-·······-:·······-·····-····-·······----;···-·-···-··.39• 40. 43
Legislation ··-----··-············ ··················-···· ·····-··-··-··········· ··············270, 275
Retirement Penslon Plan - Repolt of Committee on Plnanee ···-········-····-··--·· ·-·- 255
Revolving Loan Fund

r::~~~~ ~~~-::::::::::~·::::::::::::::::::::::.~.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2ri
ree;~:::i ~~~~-~=:::.::::.~:::::::::::.:::::::::.-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~
Rio Linda No. 786 c:.oa.titutecL........-·········-···············-·················-····-··-·--·--- 23
~~~Ca~-~·-~--~~..:::=:-::.::::::::::=:~.:::::·.:::::::::·:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::=::::::: 7 j
Royal Order of Caritas-Resoluti
Right of Accused

on Withdrawn............................................................ 45

oc1at1on Finance ·······································-·-········-······················· 135
M~c a::hh::i~s~~·····················-·······-····················-·-··································-·········· 143
~peklil Committee Recommendations._.........................- .•... _ ..______________________ 274

~~ll~J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~,
Pa
p

f'M1~

at Loe Angeles··················-·······················-

··········-··················· 169
&0 &bd ~-················
···········.··················
····-·························
221
Is
Purposea ...........................................................•·············-···········
.•................272,

p~~

279

489

s

Sapiro. Milton Disraell, Eulogy for .......................•...................•.................................. 238
Savings & Loan Investments

re7~~:: p~~~~~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::: 2~~
=i:~ ~~~~e~~~-~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Scholarships

Scholarship Fund Audit ·························-················-·-··········· ······································ 333

SelF~~~;:~~~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l~~

Service of Summons

r:;~~t:;: p-~~~~~•.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Sessions of Communication

gran~ ~haplain -

Devotional Service ....................................................................

9

:I~~!!!!~~!~~-:~~~~-;~~~!~~~!~~-~~;~
~~st~g~ted ·······················-····························-····························· 23

-~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::: 1~?

Report of Committee
..
Reserve for Addltions and Replacements

~=:n,;;;.;;···t.t*d···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::·· ~~6

11_r............................................................................................ 240
~~~~t ~~eaM':r~~.!}esr:!?i~..·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 11~
Sierra Lodge No. 788 Constituted •................................................................................. 23

~f:S.' &J1:a~H~f;I~:

Silverado Lodge No. 782 Constituted ···············-············································-······--······ 23
Sojourners, Report of Committee on .............................................................................. 136

~~~~~~1~~:=: :f~::f~;~==~-=:==~=:~~-fi~~:t::~=~=~: Jl

490
5

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFD RNIA

Page

UC~1M.R
~~~~~~~~~~~---··-·····-·-··----··-··----···--····-······--··-··········· 28
Report of Committee on

Finance ···········································-······-······················-··· 253
Auditors' Report ···························-····-····-··········-···········
·················-···········306• .308, 310

T
Taxatio n, Repollt of Committee ·············--········
········-····································- · 265
Tehach api Lodge 313, Jurisdiction of....·--···················
······-··············-··········-···
Telegrams Seat ·············-·················-················································· ······················· 18
Television for Decato Resident, G. M. Decision..................._.•..........···························· 16
.......·-·········-······ 21
Testam entary GHts ···-··-·····-·-·····-········--···················-···············
-·-·························· 104
Tila Pass Lodge U. D.
·
Grand MaSter's Reference ··············-·:·····-····································
····························· 18
Dispensation ··········-···-······-·-···-··············-······-··············-·
················-·······-··-······· 57
Institution ···--····· ···-················-··-····················-··-··········-··········
················-············· 25
Dispensation continued -·-······························-····································
······················· 134
Title Page - - ·····-·····························-······-··························
···························-········· 5
~rial Master
Resolutions presented ·····-······································-·························
Legislation ·-····--- ···-············-··-············· ·····-····························· ····················42, 43
······················269, 270
Trial Procedures
Resolutions presented ·················································'·············-·········
Legislation ······--· ·-··-··- ·-·····-·····-····-··-································ ··········41, 42, 43
···············268, 269, 270
Tria'1 Records
•

~~ie:~~~ebt~~~e~=··:~::·:::.·:.·:.:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:.::·.~-~:.·::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~1

Trustees of Masonic Homes
Annual Report ···-······ ·-·····································································
Appointed ··--···· ·--··-················ ··········-····································· ·························· 77
Listed ···-··..····················································································································· 287
···············-··-····..··· 388
Trust Funds Audit ····························································
··············-···········-················· 327

u
UnJlniShed Business from 1958
Cemetery Recommendations .....................................................-...........
........................ 205
Commercialism Re<XIUllllendatioos ···························-·····..···-········
Far West 673 Ban............................................................... -...........····························· 276
History Program ............................................................................................................ 17
·-········· ·········-· ···· 277

~ltcC~O<~l Jui~--~-~-~----~·::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::: 2~~

u:i:sl:~1k~:ies°:f;1~

···················································································· 273

8:Jerlec;R:a:=~u-~;;:::::::.·.·:.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.·:.:·.·:.:·:.:::::::::::::::::::~~: 2
Research Recommendations ............................................................
............................ 200
Resolution on Indemnity ···················································-··-····
······················-.. ······.. 32
York Rilte Sovereign College ............................................................
.......................... 19

rs

v
V eoteran Buttons Presented - 50 Year Buttons ...... ............. ..
........................ ............. 64
Visitations to Other JuriadlctiODB...•........... _...r······················-·············
Visual Aids, Report of Spedal Committee ····'······························· ·························· 27
·.. ··························· 210

491

w
Page

Wadlei gh Fund Audit ·····-··················-········-················-················-

·-·········-············· 330

WG~~.16~~i~NJ11~~--~~~---·-··································-··········-······················· ···· 21

Decision Approved ·············································-····················..
Wesllmlnster
············
Lodge No. 787 Constit uted ....................................············
2~~
........................·········
... _...
~~'li~id ~~ki>.~~: for ·····- ································································- ············· 2 7
t
Grand Secreta ry's Report ··························································-·
····························· 5

3

wci;::er~~~:.~1eR!i!;e~~~-~:.................................................-................................... ~g
Tribute ······-·..··----··· ·..-··-··-··· ························..·-·····················
·················-··-·········

y
York Rite Sovereign College .............................................................
............·-··············

19

