[H~STER

HARVEY WARLOW
Grand Master

CHESTER HARVEY WARLOW
Grand Master
1947-1948

Chester Harvey Warlow, our 82nd Grand Master, was born in
Virginia, Cass County, Illinois, June 30, 1889. At the age of six months,
he was brought to Fresno, California, where he has resided continuously
with the exception of the years spent at school and wh-ile in the armed
forces of our country.
He was educated in the Fresno public schools and attended Kemper
Military Academy at Boonville, Missouri, from 1904 to 1906. He holds
the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Doctor of Jurisprudence from
Leland Stanford, Jr. University as well as having attended Harvard
Law School.
Brother Warlow practiced law in Fresno from 1913 until 1930 at
which time he became Fresno Trust Officer of the Security First National Bank of Los Angeles. He served in that capacity until 1943 when
he retired from active business.
In addition to his legal work, Brother Warlow has certain oil interests and is President of both the Ward Oil Company and the Seneca
Oil Company. For many years, he has been a director and member of
the Executive Committee of Independent Oil Producers' Agency of
California.
Our brother has made an outstanding contribution to his state and
community in civic activities as evidenced by the following record:
President Fresno County Chamber of Commerce, 1929
Chairman Highway Committee San Joaquin Valley Council
California State Chamber of Commerce, 1929
Organizer and chairman San Joaquiil Valley State Wide Water
Committee, 1929-1938.
Director and co-organizer of Sierra National Parks Highway
Association, 1925-1940
Leader in Community development of Kings Canyon Highway,
Generals Highway and Fresno-Yosemite Highway
Member of California Highway Commission.
During World War I, he enlisted in the regular army on August
17, 1917 and soon thereafter was commissioned Second Lieutenant in
the Air Service and on June 15, 1918 was commissioned First Lieutenant.
His Masonic service is as varied and active as his civic and business
life. He was initiated into Fresno Lodge No. 247 F. & A. M. on December 30, 1921: Passed on February 3, 1922 and Raised to the Sublime

Degree of Master Mason on March 10, 1922. He served as Master of
Fresno Lodge in 1928. In 1929, he was appointed Inspector of the 61 st
Masonic District serving for two years. In 1934, he was appointed ·
Assistant Grand Lecturer and served until 1941 at which time he was
elevated to Grand Lecturer. This service continued until his election to
the office of Deputy Grand Master in October, 1946. On October 17,
1947, Brother Warlow was elected and installed Grand Master of
Masons in California.
In addition to his service to the Grand Lodge of California, he has
been an ardent worker in the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of
Freemasonry in the Valley of Fresno. He received the 32° of that
rite on April 6, 1931 and on October 10, 1939 was elevated to Knight
Commander of the Court of Honor and on December 18, 1943 was
coroneted to 33° Mason. He served Fresno Lodge of Perfection as
Venerable Master in 1941.
His other affiliations are Fresno Rotary Club, American Legion and
University Sequoia Sunnyside Club.
On March 31, 1917, Brother Warlow was united in marriage to
Marion St. John, a native of Petaluma, California.
Throughout his entire life. Brother Warlow, or "Chet" as his host
of friends know him, has been a kindly. thoughtful and serious individual. Yet, on occasion, his dry humor and friendly smile have brought
happiness to many and have been the means of bringing peace and
harmony where dissension and disunity might have prevailed. His
wholesome philosophy of life and forthright purpose have done much
to bring to his brethren a sense of responsibility and a desire to follow
his inspiring leadership.
Student, philosopher. poet. lawyer, banker, geologist. public servant.
lover of nature-what a myriad of worlds to draw from! Is it any
wonder that we have taken him to our hearts?
"Chet's" entire outlook on life might be summed up in his favorite
expression: "Faith, hope and charity. but the greatest of these are
three good friends."

"rauh llnhgt nf QJ:alifnruia
I. LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of the M, · .W. ·.Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful t~an­
script of the proceedings of that body at its ninety-ninth Annual Communication. commenced at the city of San Francisco, on Monday, the
1lth day of October, A. L. 5948, and terminated on Friday, the 15th
day of October, A. L. 5948.

1Ju UTt.atimnuy llqtrtnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed the seal of ·the M. · .W. ·.
Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State
of California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary. this twentyninth day of October. in the year
of Light, five thousand nine
hundred and forty-eight.

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M... W ... GRAND LODGE
of

1J1rrr nuh 1\rrepteh !In.anus
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

99th ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Monday, October 11, A. D. 1948, A. L. 5948
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 15, A. D. 1948, A. L. 5948

NINETY-NINTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its Ninety~ninth Annual Com~
munication in the Masonic Temple, Van Ness Avenue and Oak Street,
San Francisco, on Monday, October 11th, A. L. 5948, at 10:00 A. M.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:

OFFICERS OP THE GRAND LODGE

M. ·. W. ·.CHESTER H. W ARLOW.•..•.•...•..••.•.•..••••..•..••....••-Grand Master
R, •• W. ·.ELLSWORTH MEYBR...............•......•.....•...Senior Grand Warden
R, • .W. ·,ARTHUR PAULSEN•.....•••••....- .....•..•..•.•...Junior Grand Warden
V, '.W. ·,FRANCIS V. KEESLING, P.G.M.........................Grand Treasurer
V. · .W. ·,LLOYD E. WILSON, P.G.M•.•...••...••.••...••••..•....•Grand Secretary
V, · .W. ·,ARTHUR M. WARREN.•...............••...••...........•••..Grand Lecturer
V. ',REVEREND JAMES l.\i. MALLOCH.............•........Grand Chaplain
W. ',MERVYN E. HANSHAW••••••••••.•....•••.. Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.' ,WALTER H. E. VON KoNSKY .•••..••.•• Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·,FRANK HARWELL, JR•....................... Assistant Grand Lecturer
W, ·.ALBERT C. WoLLENBERG............•.......................Grand Orator
W. ·,HENRY D. 0LIPHANT..................... Assistant Grand Secretary
W. ·,WESLEY W. l<ERGAN•..•...••....•......•........•••.•.••••.Grand Marshal
W. ·,ROBERT C. PEYTON•.••••..•••.•.......•.••.....•..Grand Standard Bearer
W. ·,CHARLES P. CuNE.....................................Grand Sword Bearer
W. ·,DAVID GREIG BuTCHART..............•...........••••Grand Bible Bearer
W, • ,F. WALTER SANDELIN.•..•.•.. _ ...................Senior Grand Deacon
W, ·,RAYMOND G. TA:YLOR..•............•..•••.••....••Junior Grand Deacon
W. ',RHINE G. MEYERING..........••..•...•.•.........Senior Grand Steward
W. ·,EDWARD H. RoWINS.•.- ...........................Junior Grand Steward
W. ·,HOWARD LAURENT..........................................Grand Pursuivant
W. ·,CHARLES E. ANDERSON.••••••....•. _ ••••.•...•...•.....•.Grand Organist
W. ·,ALVIN A. HoRWBGE...- .............................................Grand Tiler

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS

I.

M ••• w ••• OSCAR LAWLER
M ••• w ••• FRANCIS
KEESLING
M ••• w ••• WM. RHODES HERVEY
M ••• w •••CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M ••• w ••• SAMUELE. BURKE
M ••• w ••• ARTHUR
CRITES
M ••• w ••• GEORGE L. JONES
M. ·.w.·.WILL H. FiscHER
M ••• w ••• CHAS. M. WoLLENBERG
M. • .W. • .JoHN STEWART Ross

v.
s.

M ••• w ••• ROBERT B. GAYLORD
M. ·.w. ·.RoLuE w. MILLER
M ••• w •• .J. T. FRASER
M ••• w ••• LEON 0. WHITSELL
M ••• w ••• WILLIAM B. OGDEN
M ••• w ••• LLOYD E. WILSON
M. • .W. ·,LESLIE E. WooD
M ••• w •••CLAUDE H. MORRISON
M ••• w ••• ARTHUR w. BROUILLET
M. • .W. • .JoHN R. MooRE

And 1603 officers and representatives from 548 Lodges and six
Lodges under dispensation, and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
was opened in ample form, following which the Flag of Our Country
was received.
Brother William Dunn, P.M., Fresno Lodge No. 247, presided in
the East at the entrance of the Grand Lodge Officers.
The Grand Master appointed Past Grand Master John R. Moore to
the Office of Deputy Grand Master pro tem vice R. W. Edward H.
Siems, Deputy Grand Master, who was absent in attendance at the
funeral of his father.
The Grand Master appointed W. Clark Shaw Assistant Grand
Lecturer pro tem vice Obed W. Carr, absent due to illness.

DEVOTIONAL SERVICES
"The Three Levels of Masonry"
Very Rev.]. M. Malloch, Grand Chaplain
You will be interested to know that the song "Give Unto the Lord,"
which has just been sung by Brother Sydney Charles, is an original
composition by our Grand Organist. He wrote to me some weeks ago
to ask if I thought an original composition by him would be in order and
fit into my program. I urged him to be as original as possible. We have
heard a piece of music never used before, and we can congratulate ourselves on having a Grand Organist who is a notable composer as well
as a very able interpreter of the works of others.
You will note that I am wearing a cassock of the Church. I am
wearing it with the Grand Master's permission and approval. Maybe
we should regard it as part of the Warlow Rite. It may start a tradition
of attire for Grand Chaplains.
I am going to speak to you this morning on The Three Levels of
Masonry.

9

The first level is Operative Masonry. In the broadest sense of the
term we are all Operative Masons. We work, we build, we earn our
living. We have very little use for the healthy man who fails to bear
his own economic load in the community. We work for three fundamental reasons:
1. To satisfy the urge to activity. We want to be doing something.
Work is a psychological necessity.
2. To earn a living for ourselves and our loved ones. Work is an
economic necessity.
3. To do our part in building the great temple of the economic
order. Work is a social necessity.
Masonry has always taught the nobility of labor. A Lodge from its
opening to its close is said to be at labor.
In the wide sense in which I am using the term, Operative Masonry
is the economic aspect of Speculative Masonry. It is symbolized in the
Craft by the Twenty-four Inch Gauge, which teaches us to divide our
time between service, work, and play. In the twenty-four hours of the
day, according to Masonry, we are to find "a part for the service of
God and a distressed worthy brother; a part for our usual vocations;
and a part for refreshment and repose.' (Monitor, page 5.)
It is the duty of a Mason to discipline himself to do good work in
his usual vocation, to show the industry the Bee Hive symbolizes, and
to take full responsibility for the service he renders in his business or
profession. "It might have pleased the Great Creator of heaven and
earth, to have made man independent of all other beings; but as dependence is one of the strongest bonds of society, mankind were made
dependent on each other for protection and security, as they thereby
enjoy better opportunities of fulfilling the duties of reciprocal love and
friendship." (Monitor, page 41.)
The complexity of modern life requires a throughgoing division of
labor and a consequential sense of full responsibility for good and
reliable work.
Build it well, whate'er ye do;
Build it strong and straight and true;
Build it clean and high and broad; ·
Build it for the Eye of God.
It is the duty of a Mason to take vital interest in the economic problems of his time. Our economic order is characterized by Big Business,
Big Labor, and Big Government. Our scientific, technological age makes
bigness in all three inevitable. One can't manufacture an automobile in
an old-time blacksmith shop or carry on modern medical research in a
corner drug store. Our scientific, machine civilization makes big industrial enterprises an absolute necessity. Big private enterprises in turn

10

11

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

result in a labor movement strong enough to secure for labor wages
large enough to guarantee an adequate buyer's market for big business
and a government wise enough to keep the two together in a balanced
economy. The problem is to solve the main problems arising out of the
inevitable complexity of this bigness. These problems are unemployment, excessively high prices, and the fluctuating economic cycle, and
they cannot be solved on the basis of doctrinaire political platforms.
It is the moral obligation of a Mason to seek for real solutions of-these
problems and not to succumb to political panaceas and propaganda.

Masons are not afraid of philosophy, of speculation. They believe
in thinking things through. This is not true of human beings in general.
Most people think that philosophy is a disease of words, a way of saying
in language which nobody can understand what everybody knows
anyway. William James, the great philosopher, met Josiah Royce,
almost equally great as a philosopher, on the campus of Harvard
University one day. "Royce, what is a philosopher?" asked James.
Royce, being a philosopher, passed the question back. "A philosopher;·
said James, "is a blind man looking in a dark room for a black cat that
isn't there" . . . "And what is a theologian?" he added. Again he
answered his own question, "A theologian is a fellow who thinks he has
found the cat." Masons take a more optimistic view of philosophy.
They accept the words of promise: "You will know the truth, and the
truth will make you free" (John 8:32). They agree with the poet:
Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again;
The eternal years of God are hers;
But Error, wounded, withers in pain,
And dies among his worshippers.
-William Cullen Bryant

It is the duty of a Mason in our time to help recover the values of
leisure time. We need more time for refreshment and repose in our
social order. The pressure of modem life is breaking us down physically
and mentally. Our ancient brethren believed in working six days and
in resting on the seventh, for "in six days God created the heaven and
the earth, and rested on the seventh day." (Monitor, page 22.) We
need the Sabbath rest. God made man to work. He also made him to
rest. Evefy Sunday should be a day of rest and worship. It takes time
to be holy, as the familiar hymn suggests. The violation of Sunday is
the worst spiritual crime of modem times. Religion depends for its
vitality and health upon its holy days, and the greatest of these is
Sunday.
0 Sabbath rest by Galilee!
0 calm of hills above,
Where Jesus knelt to share with Thee
The Silence of eternity
Interpreted by love!
There can be no interpretation of life by love without Sabbath rest.
God does not cause the grass and the trees to toil all the year around.
He does not obliterate the seasons. He does not want men to toil ever
and rest never.

II.
The second fevel of Masonry is the Speculative. Speculative Masonry is the architecture of the soul, of life, of personality.
Build thee more stately mansions, 0 my soul,
As the swift seasons rolll
Leave thy low-vaulted past!
Let each new temple, nobler than the last,
Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,
Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea!

-Oliver Wendell Holmes

The Masonic Craft is the most impressive of all fraternities, because
it has more philosophy as well as more history than any other. In terse
English, there is more to it.
Masonry is an Implemental Philosophy. It teaches by symbols,
ritual, initiation. It recognizes the fundamental psychological fact that
man is a body as well as a spirit, and that he can learn through the
use of his five senses. The tools of operative Masonry are the symbolic
implements by which the ideals of the Masonic life are imparted and
taught. Some of the tools recognized monitorially are the Lambskin
Apron, the Common Gavel, the Square, the Compass, the Level, the
Plumb, the Trestle Board, the Globes, and the Trowel.
Masonry is also Instrumental PhUosophy. This is exceedingly important. Masonic philosophy or speculation is the instrument or means
by which the Mason is led to great systems of_ truth. Masonry did not
originate its own principles and teachings and it does not exhaust them.
Masonry, as its reference to the Seven Liberal Arts and Sciences indicates, accepts the whole world of human knowledge and wisdom. It
believes in the accumulating knowledge of the experimental sciences,
in the wisrom of philosophy, and in all the creative arts. The President
of Harvard University divides the curriculum of education into these
three disciplines.
Masonry believes in religion. Some Masons affirm that the Lodge
gives them all the religion they need. That is their own conclusion from
or interpretation of the Masonry they have learned. It is not the offi-

12

13

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

cial creed of the Craft. Masonry may be all the religion a man has
(and he might have one worse). That it is all the religion he needs is
questionable.

of Samuel Johnson in his LIFE OF MILTON are still true: "To be
of no church is dangerous." (Ross Digest, Sections 815, 868, 869,
.870, 872).

Masonic Law states clearly and unequivocally that Masonry is
not a substitute for religion and that it was never designed to take
the place of religion. On the contrary, "as the handmaid of religion,
it may and often does, act as the vestibule that introduces its votaries
into the temple of divine truth." In other words, it is religiously as well
as educationally instrumental.

Masonic philosophy is practical. It is elementary, elemental, and
designed for immediate use. It summarizes in simple form the essentials
of ethics and morality. In one way or another, it teaches the ultimate
values of beauty, truth. and goodness. Keats wrote:
Beauty is truth, truth beauty,-that is all
Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.
Masonry teaches the cardinal virtues of temperance, fortitude, prudence,
and justice: and the theological virtues of faith, hope, and love. "So
faith, hope, love abide, these three: but the greatest of these is love."
(I. Cor. 13:13).

Masonry requires belief in the existence of God as the Great
Architect of the universe but beyond this does not offer any definition
of the Supreme Being. Masonry requires that the "Book of the Law,"
the Spiritual Trestle Board, the Great Light, shall constitute an indispensible part of the furniture of every Lodge but does not determine
which volume shall be regarded as the sacred embodiment of the
"revealed will of God." It takes care, however, that the volume on the
altar shall be one about which the Mason concerned can say,
Here's a book whose wondrous pages
Guard the wisdom of the ages,
Here poised in azure deep, divine,
The stars of truth .forever shine.
Masonry insists on belief in a resurrection to a future life but presents
no blueprints of the Hereafter. It leaves all these undefined problems of
theology to the judgment of the individual or to the other institutions in
which he puts his trust. (Landmarks 19, 20, 21 ) .
The relationship of Masonry to organized religion is quite clear. It
is not officially in any sense in competition with organized religion.
Unlike the Church which seeks to save souls through the truth and
grace God has given her to dispense, Masonry supplies no scheme of
redemption from sin and makes no claim to be "the way. the truth,
and the life."
The first of the Fifteen Points of the Old York Constitutions of 926
required that every Mason should "frequent Holy Church." This is no
longer part of the Written Law of Masonry. The Law of California
Masonry states that Masonry holds that attendance at church is not
a Masonic duty. It is not too much to say. however, that the spirit of
Masonry leads to a recognition of organized religion in some formchurch, synagogue, mosque. or temple. To the truly Masonic mind,
religion is essential, and religion, like all other human interests, inevitably becomes organized. The Church, as John Henry Newman
said, is the "concrete representative of things invisible." In spite of
the confusion and mediocrity of our sectarian religious world, the words

Masonic philosophy names the areas of human responsibility: to
Self, to Neighbor, and to God. (Monitor, pages 17 and 40). Shakespeare said,
This above all: to thine own self be true,
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
-Hamlet
Belief in the worth of the individual is the basis of democracy. A
distinguished teacher of the law has said that the essence of democracy
is the Judaeo-Christian concept of man. That concept is that man has
the dignity which comes from being created in the image and likeness
of God and gets his rights as a person, not from kings or even from
himself, but from God. The good state grows out of the good individaul. A good world will arise out of good persons. William N. Ponton
put the whole matter into a perfect formula when he said, "The Brotherhood of Man begins with the Manhood of the Brother." In Masonry
"the Pot of Incense is an emblem of a pure heart." In America as in
Masonry, we have no titles save those which designate our jobs but we
do have a nobility of soul, an aristocracy of character. Tennyson wrote:
Howe' er it be, it seems to me,
'Tis only noble to be good.
Kind hearts are more than coronets,
And simple faith than Norman blood.
Our duty to our neighbor means more today than ever before in the
long history of the human race. Our neighbor in this global age is the
whole human race. Masonic philosophy has long recognized the unity
of mankind, however. "By the exercise of Brotherly Love we are taught
to regard the whole human species as one family. the high and the low,
the rich and the poor. who, as created by one Almighty Parent, and

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

inhabitants of the same planet, are to aid, support and protect each
other". (Monitor, pages 12 and 13).
The important thing to believe now with reference to our universal
neighborhood is that permanent peace is a possibility. People will say
that we have always had wars and always will. The Mason must
arm the exact opposite of this. He must help create an atmosphere of
public faith in peace in which the statesmen of the world can work.
Remember that faith is contageous. The very stars in their courses are
fighting on the side of the believers in peace. Scientific research is
making war too dangerous to trifle with. In using the atomic bomb,
mankind is playing with the very fingers of God Almighty. Peace is
coming to the world by providential necessity.
- These things shall be, a loftier race
Than e'er the world has known shall rise
With flame of freedom in their souls,
And light of knowledge in their eyes.
Man's duty to God, as Masonry clearly teaches, is the most important duty of all. The reason for this is very clear in our Western
tradition of philosophy. We are dependent beings. We did not bring
ourselves into being. We have no reason whatever to believe that
we can destroy ourselves. Everything we have and use-the _w hole
order of nature, of reality-has been given us. It comes from some
infinite source not of our own making. We call this infinite, necessary
source of all other being God. "We," as a stoic poet said long ago,
"are His offspring." "In Him," as St. Paul exclaimed, "we live and move
and have our being."
Man's dependance places him under moral obligation to the Creator
who gave him life. Strangely enough many people are blind to this
obligation. They ignore the fact that the Ten Commandments include
man's duties to God as well as his duties to his fellow men. Consequently they are only half moral at best.
The Creator is a God of beauty and truth. There is a conspicuous
order in things. "The beauty of God," said St. Thomas, the Angelic
Doctor, "is the cause of the being of all that is.'' God's creation is also
characterized by truth. In fact it is so truthful that it always gives the
same answers to all the accurate researchers of the world of science.
There can be no conflict between religion when it is religion and science
when it is science. Precision in science is reverence for the laws of
God. His ways of doing things, and consequently indirect worship of
the Author of all the fields of scientific investigation. lncidently the
old Romans who invented the word religion used it to mean both reverence for the laws of God, His ways of doing things, and consequently
indirect worship of the Author of all the fields of scientific investiga-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

15

tion. lncidently the old Romans who invented the word religion used
it to mean both reverence for the gods and conscientiousness. We use
the term in the same way today. Reverence and conscientiousness are
fundamentally and eternally correlative.
God alone is the Giver of life, mortal and immortal. This mortal
life has to be taken on God's terms. Immortal life has to be taken on
the same terms. God is the Creator and the Sustainer. He is also the
Saviour. Man wonders if there is a life beyond the grave, if there is
a land fairer than day. The religious man does more than wonder
about it. He asks the Giver of all life to grant him life everlasting.

III.
The third and highest level of Masonry is the Contemplative. The
words "Speculative" and "Contemplative" are used as equivalents in
Masonic literature and rites. The fact must not be overlooked, however, that Contemplative Masonry is a hightened form of Speculative
Masonry. Reverence and admiration for the glory of God in the Creation can lead to a felt personal relation to the Supreme Being and sometimes to a mystical sense of the Divine Presence. (Monitor, page 22).
Contemplative Masonry solves the Problem of Evil. a problem
which staggers speculation and philosophy. All men of experience in
this mortal life have learned the lesson of the Mosaic Pavement that
life is checked with good and evil. that it is bittersweet. The contemplative Mason puts his whole trust in God. Whittier wrote :
I know not where His islands lift
Their fronded palms in air;
I only know I cannot drift
Beyond His love and care.
Contemplative Masonry solves the problem of ultimate happiness.
Man gains happiness through the spiritual possession of values, particularly of the values of Life, Truth, and Love. The possession of
God means complete happiness, for God, as Dante said, is the Supreme
Value, the Value of Values. He is perfect Life and perfect Truth and
perfect Love.
Contemplative Masonry keeps religion from being mere moralizing,
merely goody-goody. Eric Gill said that a thief who loves God is
more religious than an honest man who does not love God. ·Religion
at its best is the love of God which passes all understanding. Masonry
rises to its perfection when it adores the felt Presence of the ineffable
Being. Who is the Great Architect of the Universe and the Grand
Master of all living things.

16

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MESSAGE OF THE GRAND MASTER

This summary of my journeyings has astounded me, no less than it
may surprise you, but the joys of these journeys and the pleasures of
these meetings with my Brethren. not only here in California but elsewhere, as hereinafter noted; the heartiness of the receptions tendered me
and the permanent friendships established, have more than compensated for the time and effort spent, and have fired my enthusiasms and
funded my knowledge of the Craft.
At some of my receptions here in the State, I have noted my travels to
the Grand Masters' Conference in Washington, D. C., and my return
to California by a circuitous route through Cuba, Yucatan, Guatemala,
and Mexico.
I shall not repeat those observations here, but I do report the reception extended to your Grand Master and your Grand Secretary by the
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Guatemala. and record the gracious
hospitality offered by, and the fine friendships established with, the following distinguished Brethren of that Jurisdiction: The Most Worshipful Grand Master Jose Maria Moscoso Espino; the Very Worshipful Ventura Echeverria, Grand Orator: the Illustrious Luis Gaytan, 33°,
Grand Commander of the Supreme Council. A. & A. S. R. of Guatemala:
and the Illustrious Alfred Lamport, 33°, Grand Secretary of the Supreme
Council. Masonry in that Jurisdiction is upon a very high plane, and the
individual graciousness and courtesies of these Brethren were augmented
by the holding of a formal Special Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Guatemala in honor of your Grand Master and your Grand Secretary.
May I report that on our return to California, I had made up, not at
Grand Lodge expense, a Grand Master's lapel button similar to our
Charles Albert Adams button, which the Grand Master of this Jurisdiction is privileged to wear. I caused that button to be delivered to the
Grand Master of Guatemala, to be worn by that Officer as a constant
reminder of the hospitality extended to us and as a continuing token of
the cordial relationships which exist between our Grand Jurisdictions and
the Brethren of our respective Lodges.
Except during the war period, each Grand Master of this Jurisdiction, in turn, has had the privilege of visiting our Lodges situated in the
Hawaiian Islands. The enjoyment of this portion of my travels was
made doubly pleasant by reason of the fact that, as Grand Lecturer, I
had visited the Islands in August of 1945. This time I went in the
Spring. and the beauties of this land of flowers are only exceeded by the
graciousness and hospitality of her Masons. The Brethren of the 102nd
and 103rd lnspectorial Districts took every moment of our available time
to show us all that could be seen in our brief visit there. Here there is
neither time nor' space to name all the places visited or all the Brethren
who joined in extending these courtesies to us, but special mention must
be made of Inspector A. Q. Potts and his wife; of Inspector Henry C.

Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
Each year the Grand Master of Masons in California stands before
a general assemblage of the Craft. and presents to it those matters
which to him appear to be of importance or of interest to Masonry
in general. On this occasion it is my privilege so to do, but I cannot and
will not endeavor to bring before you all the matters which fall within
these bounds.
Masonry in California has prospered. Its Lodges. and its Grand
Lodge Officers and Committeemen have each and all functioned
smoothly and efficiently. The total membership of the Craft has increased materially. The principal tenets of Free Masonry. Brotherly
Love, Relief and Truth, have been duly observed, and Masonry in California continues to ocupy a place of high esteem among all the peoples of
our State as well as in the hearts of our Brethren.
Perhaps in making this report. I need not say more, but the temptation to enlarge the record is great and I sh~ll proceed.
VISITATIONS AND TRAVELS

"To travel continuously one hundred and thirty days covering the
total distance of over two thousand miles and being able to visit only one
third of the Lodges in the Jurisdiction gives some impression, not only
of the extent of our State, but the magnitude of the labor devolving upon
the Grand Master.* * *Strong as is the temptation to do so, to detail our
experiences would unduly prolong this document."
So spoke your Grand Master at the Sixtieth Annual Communication
of your Grand Lodge.
.
How times have changed! Then three hundred and thirty-two
Lodges in our State; now five hundred and ninety Chartered Lodges,
with six more under dispensation.
Like the Grand Master of those days. I do not intend to prolong this
document unduly. I shall not here record all my visits and travelings,
but I would be withholding desirable information and be remiss in expressing my appreciation if I did not say something upon this subject.
In attending to the Masonic duties and privileges of this high office
during the past year, your Grand Master has traveled more than 13.000 ·
miles by airplane, more than 4,000 miles by train, and more than 20,000
miles by automobile. I have addressed audiences totaling more than
25.000 persons and, while it has not been possible to visit all the Lodges
in California or even all the lnspectorial Districts individually, yet by
grouping the Lodges and the Districts I have had direct contact with the
Officers and members of more than 95 % of the Lodges of this State; not
counting those here assembled at this Communication of the Grand
Lodge of California.

18

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Wedemeyer of the 102nd District: of Rex Wills I, Master of Kilauea
Lodge No. 330, and his wife, who took us on a three day trip around the
Island of Hawaii: of Leonard (Pat) Canon, Master of Kauai Lodge No.
589, and his wife: and of William B. Jennings, Jr., Master of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598, and his wife. Brother Jennings arranged a special
trip for us in, around, and on the waters of Pearl Harbor, and we had
as our special guide Brother Lieutenant-Commander E. Scott McCuskey,
United States Navy-most decorated living Navy aerial combat ace.
Brother F. Walter Sandelin, Senior Grand Deacon of this Grand
Lodge, and his wife accompanied the Grand Master on his travels in
the Hawaiian Islands, and they join with Mrs. Warlow and me i~ paying this tribute to the loyal Masons of the Territory, and we extend our
thanks for their generous hospitality. Both within and beyond our
peaceful walls, Masonry in the Hawaiian Islands occupies a high place
in the opinion of her citizens, and the fine leadership of these and the
other distinguished Masons of that territory who have preceded them in
authoritative positions, has contributed materially to that attainment.
At my request the Right Worshipful Edward H. Siems attended the
Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Nevada on June 11 and 12, 1948: the Right Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer,
Senior Grand Warden, attended the Annual Communication of the
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Oregon on June 16, 17, and 18, 1948:
and the Right Worshipful Arthur Paulsen, Junior Grand Warden, attended the Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Arizona on April 7 and 8. 1948.
To these Grand Lodges and their Grand Officers. I express my appreciation for the courtesies and hospitalities extended to the representatives of the Grand Lodge of California.
I also thank the Brethren above-named for the faithful discharge of
these appointments as special representatives of the Grand Lodge of
California and as my deputies to these several Communications: but may
I be permitted to say that, if they had as much pleasure and enjoyment
out of their assignments as I did while attending the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Washington in June 1948, and the Grand
Lodge of Idaho in September 1948, these Brethren are indebted to the
Grand Master of California, and I expect to insist upon the repayment of
the obligations when they occupy this Grand Oriental Chair. My personal reception by the Grand Lodge of Washington and by the Grand
Lodge of Idaho was most gracious, and the friendships which I acquired, and the recollection of those pleasant hours, will long remain
in my Garden of Memory. I only hope that at this Communication of
this Grand Lodge the representatives here in attendance from our neighboring Grand Jurisdictions may enjoy themselves as mt.rCh and as profitably, as I and our other Grand Lodge Officers did at the Communications
'of their respective Grand Lodges.

It seems desirable to report one other travel record. In February
1948, I attended the annual meeting of the George Washington Masonic
National Memorial Association and also the Grand Masters' Conference, both of which were held in Washington, D. C. The formal records of both the Meeting and the Conference are printed and can be
read by those who are especially concerned. In accordance with the request of the Grand Lodge of California, made at its Ninety-eighth Annual Communication, your Grand Master presented to the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Association Meeting certain
resolutions relative to the organization and management of that Association. Our Committee on the George Washington Association will report on that matte~ later in this Communication.
From my standpoint, attendance at the Meeting and the Conference
was most satisfactory on account of the contacts made with the Grand
Lodge Officers of the several Masonic Jurisdictions of the United
States, Canada, and Puerto Rico, and because of the broad view of
Masonry which these contacts afforded. As Deputy Grand Master, it
had been my good fortune to attend the 1947 Meeting and Conference,
and the experiences there enhanced the pleasures and profits of attendance at the 1948 Sessions. Realizing that this would be so, I requested
the Right Worshipful Edward H. Siems, Deputy Grand Master, to attend the conference in 1948, and from his reactions and my personal experiences, I commend to Grand Lodge and to succeeding Grand Masters
that it be the policy to send not only our Grand Master to each annual
Conference and each annual ·Meeting but that the Deputy Grand Master of California also be requested to attend whenever his personal time
will permit. Likewise it should be the continuing policy to send our
Grand Secretary each year to the Grand Secretaries' Conference, which
is held at the same time.
While upon the subject of Visitations and Travels I must say to the
Craft that it cannot expect its Grand Masters to devote as much of their
personal time to Masonic meetings and travels as a few of your recent
Grand Masters have been able to do. Do not misunderstand me, my
Brethren, I am not complaining personally, for I have been fortunate
enough to have had the time and the physical stamina to enjoy happily
the privileges of meeting with my Brethren on very numerous Masonic
occasions. Nevertheless. very few men, regardless of position or substance, can have their personal affairs in such shape that they can completely neglect them for a full twelve months.
Many willing and capable workers in the vineyard, Masons of potentially great leadership are, on account of this prospect, deterred from
even accepting positions where they may be regarded as "Grand Master
material.'' and even those who do and who are eventually asked "to step
in line," do so with continuing worries about the time demands which
they are certain will accrue during their "year."

19

20

I

21

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

May I presume to suggest to the Craft that they accept from their
Grand Masters as complete performance, a schedule of visitations materially less in number than those which a few of us have been able to devote to the cause and then, in succeeding years, invite the Past Grand
Master to make "official" visits to Districts where he has not theretofore
appeared and where the then incumbent Grand Master cannot accept an
invitation.
I am sure that a suitable program of limited Grand Master visitations
and subsequent assignments could be worked out to avoid duplications,
and I commend this suggestion to the thoughtful consideration of the
Craft.
In making this suggestion, please do not think I am urging a continuation of my own personal travels, for I have had my share of receptions
and the six or seven areas which were not on my list, I am sure, will be
visited this coming year by my successor.

Frank Harwell, Jr., Assistant Grand Lecturer........ April 19, 1948
Leonard Gross, Trustee-Masonic Homes ................ May 5, 1948

APPOINTMENTS

A moment ago I mentioned the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association. Let it be here noted that in the Association
meeting a report: presented by Brother Dr. Richard A. Kern, Past
Grand Master of Pennsylvania, which established a Central Ways and
Means Committee and also ten Regional Ways and Means Committees,
was adopted. Dr. Elmer R. Arn, Past Grand Master of Ohio and President of the Association, has appointed Brother William B. Ogden, Past
Grand Master of California, as a member of the Central Ways and
Means Committee and ex~fficio Chairman of the Regional Ways and
Means Committee Region X, South Pacific (comprising the States of
California, Nevada, Utah, and Arizona) and, under the authority of
the terms of a resolution of the Association, your Grand Master appointed Brother John R. Moore, Past Grand Master of Cali_fomia, as
California's representative on the Regional Committee.
There is always a joy in appointing a good and capable Brother to a
position where it is known that his work will be of great benefit to Masonry, but generally there is a corresponding sorrow in the realization
that some other Brother has found it necessary for one reason or another
to lay aside the trowel and rest from his labors, thus creating the vacancy
to which the new appointment is made.
To those who during the past year have ceased their work and are
now resting from their labor, be they here or "There," I extend the thanks
of the Fraternity for their much appreciated services to Masonry, and express the hope that those who remain with us may long enjoy the pleasant
recollection of an undertaking well done and the continuing gratitude,
fellowship, and respect of all the Brethren of the Craft.
The following appointments are here reported.
Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Assistant Grand Lecturer.. March 16, 1948

INSPECTORS

Harry Burrows ................................... Dist. No. 2 Dec. 15, 1947
Roy C. Bryan (Previous Service 1938-44) ........77 Dec. 20, 194 7
Russell Northrop ..................................................75 Dec. 20, 1947
Rush Manbert ......................................................48A Dec. 20, 1947
Frank R. Killinger, Jr•............................................37 Dec. 29, 1947
Howard S. Kaulbach ........................................~....38 Dec. 29, 1947
Haiman L. Wayne ..•.............................................43 Dec. 29, 1947
Martin Ortlieb •........................... ~.......................! 09 Jan. 1.3, 1948
Stanley Hurst Wentz ..........................................49 Mar. 16, 1948
Roy T. Kiele ..•........................................................84 Apr. 22, 1948
William T. Rodger ............................................101 Apr. 22, 1948
Howard Laurent ..................................................96A June 19, 1948
Robert N. Walker ...................................,............54A July 28, 1948
Elmer Glen Van Tassell ........................................9 Sept. 11, 1948
At a late hour I have received the resignation of Past Grand Master
Samuel E. Burke, as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes. I accepted this resignation with .great regret. For terms of appointment totaling thirty years, Past Grand Master Burke has served
the Fraternity well and faithfully in a department that is of primary
importance to the Craft and one of the principal foundation stones supporting the entire structure of Free Masonry. "Th_e greatest of these is
Charity." For these glorious works, Brother Burke, the thanks of the
Fraternity. I trust that the simplicity of our words will convey to you
our realization of our own inability to phrase the encomiums to which
your faithful work entitles you.
On account of the brevity of the unexpired term I have left to my
successor the appointment to fill the vacancy created by this resignation,
believing that it is better that the new appointee take up the burdens
and responsibilities of this important office at the beginning of a new
Masonic year.
NEW LODGES CONSTITUTED
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California, at its NinetyEighth Annual Communication, granted Charters to three new Lodges.
In conformity with our law, your Grand Master called Special Communications of the Grand Lodge, and constituted said Lodges at the
times and in the places as hereinafter set forth.

Lodge
Travelers Lodge No. 692
Palm Springs Lodge No. 693
San Antonio Lodge No. 694

Location
Sacramento
Palm Springs**
South Gate

Date of Constitution
November 15, 1947
November 1, 1947
December 13, 1947

22

23

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

**The ceremony of constituting Palm Springs Lodge No. 693 was
held, for convenience, at Banning, California, in the hall of San Gorgonio
Lodge No. 668, because the size of the hall at Palm Springs could not
accommodate all those desiring to attend this special communication.

Upon the basis of the facts presented by these excellent reports and
from other reliable information coming to him, your Grand Master, during this term, has issued dispensations for the formation of new Lodges
and instituted the same at the times and places hereinafter tabulated,
To Wit:

DISPENSATIONS FOR NEW LooGES

The establishment of a new Lodge is a matter of grave concern, and
certainly a dispensation for that purpose is not to be had merely for the
asking. Our law provides that the Grand Master "may in cases of manifest propriety and necessity grant * * * a dispensation to open and hold
a Lodge * * * ." Accordingly, and before any applications for the formation of new Lodges had been received, I established a new and uniform
procedure of investigation to be made after an application had been perfected legally under Part II, Section I. of our Ordinances. Just as an
applicant for the Degrees for Masonry should be thoroughly investigated before balloting, so should there be formal and extensive investigation before consenting to the formation of a new Lodge. All the facts
prc>bative of the permanence and continuing welfare of a proposed new
Lodge, as well as its probable effect on neighboring Lodges, should be
on file before action is taken on the petition.
I assigned the duty of assembling this information to the already
established Committee on Charters, with the direction that they report
their findings of facts, without recommendation, relative to the following items which seemed necessary to enable the Grand Master to act intelligently upon such an application, To Wit:
1. The economic and social status oI the community from which the
Lodge expected to draw its membership.
2. The history and "work" record of already established Lodges in
or near the situs of the proposed new Lodge.
3. The personal talents, accomplishments, and position, as men and
as Masons, of each of the Officers and Brothers of the proposed new
Lodge.
4. Any other matters of special importance germane to the particular
application.
The Committee on Charters was happy to undertake this duty and,
thereupon, set up a questionnaire form which served as a guide for assembling the necessary information. As requests for dispensations were
received, they were assigned to the Committee for investigation and report, and I congratulate the members of that Committee upon their full
conception of the Grand Master's intentions, the efficiency and completeness of their investigations, and their hearty cooperation in this new
procedure.
May I emphasize again that .their reports were factual only and without recommendation and that, in each instance, these reports have been
filed in the Grand Lodge Office as a permanent record of the particular
Lodge.

Lodge Name
Location · Dispensation Instituted
Meudell Lodge
Bakersfield, Calif. Jan. 20, 1948 Apr. 3, 1948
Crossroads Lodge
San Diego, Calif. Jan. 31, 1948May29,1948
Saint Elmo Lodge
Oakland, Calif.
Mar.29,1948 May18,1948
Wm. D. Stephens Lodge LosAngeles,Calif. June 7,1948 Junel9,1948
Bixby Knolls Lodge
Long Beach, Calif. July 21, 1948 July31, 1948
Ponderosa Lodge
Fresno, Calif.
Aug. 1, 1948 Aug. 6, 1948
I regret very much that I could not grant conscientiously some of the
applications for dispensations for new Lodges and, also, that I must report that some groups were discouraged from making applications at
this time, all for the reason that they could not, in my judgment, make a
showing of "manifest propriety and necessity." Upon this basis, applications for dispensations were disapproved for new Lodges at Rio Linda,
in Sacramento County, and at Bijou, in El Dorado County, and a late
petition from Los Olivas in Santa Barbara County is being referred to
my successor. It would have been much pleasanter for your Grand
Master to have said "Yes," joyously, in each instance. To these very
earnest Masons let me say, "Do not be discouraged permanently. If your
present Grand Master has been in error, on the negative side, as to
what constitutes 'manifest propriety and necessity', this error can be
corrected readily by his successors in office. However, a mistake on
the affirmative side could not be rectified so readily, and a weakness
appearing some five or ten years after the Lodge had been formed would
make the new Lodge a liability rather than an asset to Masonry in
California!'
These earnest Brethren may take heart in the fact that this is a
rapidly growing state, having doubled its population in the last eight
years, and in the fact that the great westward treck is still continuing.
As a new community becomes established, permanently and soundly, beyond the reach of a possible future depression, there a new Lodge may
be instituted safely and, by the same token, new Lodges in well established, expanding cities will certainly become necessary.
Masonry is on the march in California. Our principal problem is to
see that the advancement is orderly and that, using ancient Masonic
language, all our Lodges be "permanently established at particular
places."
I bequeath this plan of procedure relative to the creation of new
Lodges to my successors in office, trusting that they may find merit in it,

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and earnestly believing that Masonry in California will be benefited
thereby.
DEDICATIONS OF MASONIC TEMPLES

At my direction, Grand Lodge was convened in Special Communication and dedicated the new Masonic Temples at the places and the
times as hereinafter set forth, To Wit:

Lodge
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528
Yolo Lodge No. 81
Fallbrook Lodge No. 317

Location
Hawthorne
Beverly Hills
Yolo
Fallbrook

Date of Dedication
November 8, 1947
January 31. 1948
April 16. 1948
May 5, 1948

The schedule of my official visitations was such that I could not preside personally except at the Yolo dedication, but Past Grand Master
William B. Ogden convened Grand Lodge at Hawthorne and dedicated
that Temple according to ancient form. Past Grand Master Claude H.
Morrison performed these rites at Fallbrook. Their gracious acceptance
and skillful performance of these duties, at my request, are greatly appreciated. I extend to them my personal thanks for their assistance in
this respect. ·
OTHER SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS

On the 14th day of April. 1948, I regretfully caused the Grand Lodge
of California to be convened by the Very Worshipful Arthur M.
Warren, Grand Lecturer, for the purpose of conducting the funeral
of one of my best and most intimate friends, the Worshipful Sidney K.
Lehman, Assistant Grand Lecturer. The funeral service was delivered
by Worshipful Earle C. Graham, Master of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42,
acting as my special representative. My absence from this solemn occasion was necessitated because my attendance was required in Sacramento to fill out a quorum of a California Commission which otherwise
could not have transacted important State business.
That I did not have the privilege of saying this last farewell to one
who was so close to me, one who had served Masonry in such a magnificent manner for so many years and who had inore than earned the right
to have the Grand Master speak our parting words, has intensified the
pain of the passing of this grand Mason.
At this communication, at the proper time, and in more fitting words
the memory of his many virtues will be noted, but I desire to record that
Sidney K. Lehman was a grand man .-and a grand Mason, a true and
ardent worker in the vineyard, a man whose place in the hearts of his
Brethren can never be filled.
MASONIC CLUBHOUSES

The two clubhouses, which are maintained and operated by the
Grand Lodge of California for the benefit of students of Masonic

25

families who are attending the University of California at Berkeley and
the University of California at Los Angeles, are a credit to the Craft.
I visited each of these clubhouses. I found them well managed and
their facilities well used by as fine a group of young Americans as one
could hope to find anywhere. The Clubs are definitely serving the purpose for which they were established, and the Fraternity should be as
proud of this "work" as it is of its two Masonic Homes.
The clubhouses themselves are beautiful structures, but it seemed to
me that the equipment and the interior finishings of the clubhouses at
Berkeley had deteriorated and were below the usual Masonic standards.
I. therefore, urge the Craft to give special heed and support to the report
and recommendations of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic club
house of the University of California at Berkeley in order that these
deficiencies may be corrected soon. This is not a criticism of the Board
of Trustees. It is simply a noting of the effect of war restrictions, then
rightly imposed, but which are now removed. Authorization by Grand
Lodge should be given for these improvements.
FIRE

Within a single week fire destroyed the buildings of North East
Lodge No. 266 at Fort Bidwell and of Georgetown Lodge No. 25 at
Georgetown. The halls, furnishings, and priceless records, including the
original roving Charter of Georgetown Lodge No. 25, were lost.
These two old Lodges and the Fraternity in general have suffered
irreparable loss. I commend to Grand Lodge an earnest consideration of
the financial problems of these two Lodges occasioned by this destruction. A study of the requirements of rebuilding and refurnishing their
Halls should be made, and I urge a generous hand to aid the keeping of
Masonry alive in the two communities.
These calamities again emphasize the necessity of urging Lodges
to have their Charters photostated, as provided by Resolution of the
Grand Lodge ( 1947 Proceedings, page 258). to keep their records and
valuabl~ furnishings in fire proof vaults and to carry adequate insurance
upon their properties.
COMMITTEES OF INVESTIGATIONS ON APPLICATIONS FOR DEGREES

It has come to the attention of your Grand Master that during the
past few years several men who had previous records as felons have
been admitted to membership in this Fraternity.
These are not pleasant words, nor will they, during the years to come,
look well in print, but where we publicly parade our virtues we should
likewise explore our own shortcomings, especially where it is for the
benefit of the Craft. It seems incredible that Committees of Investigations
should have been so lackadaisical and so negligent in the performance of
their duties that these "records" should not have been uncovered and re•
ported to the Lodge before ballot, but such, my Brethren is the fact. It
is astounding that two of these cases occurred in the same city, and not

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a large city, though not in the same Lodge. This certainly illuminates
that Masonic community's view of the responsibilities of the Investigating Committee.
Some would have charges of un-Masonic conduct filed against those
negligent investigators, but this ultimately would result in Brethren refusing to serve on Committees of Investigation. Rather do I choose to
emphasize, by these to-be-printed words, that each Committeeman
should explore every avenue of inquiry into an applicant's past life and
that, where the applicant has lived in several communities since "growing up," inquiry should be made of Masons in each locality, so that no
records of incarceration or moral shortcomings should remain undisclosed. In order that the .facts hereinabove presented may be brought to
the attention of the Craft in general. I request that each Master .see to
it that this portion of the Grand Master's message be read in his open
Lodge. It is my hope that the Brethren of the Craft may be shocked
thereby into a realization of the full duties and responsibilities incident
to the acceptance of an appointment as a member of a Committee of Investigations.
"Upon each member of the Lodge devolves the duty of carefully
guarding its portals." Masonry would soon deteriorate if Lodges and
members of Investigating Committees showed themselves so careless of
their honor and reputation, so unmindful of their obligations as to entitle
men not worthy and well qualified to be called "friend and brother by
all Masons withersoever dispersed around the globe."

China, Massachusetts Jurisdiction, presented to the Grand Lodge of
California a copy of the Bible published entirely in the Chinese language, requesting that it be held each year by the Lodge which has rendered the best service to Masonic charity.
I am reasonably familiar with the activities of our Lodges and the
charitable work which they are doing. I am proud of that work. but it is
impossible, with any reasonable degree of justice to pick out, from the
five hundred and ninety-six Lodges, one Lodge and say that it has rendered the best service to Masonic charity during this past year. No one
Lodge deserves this signal honor, yet, paradoxical as it may seem, all of
our Lodges deserve it. I. therefore, direct that, for this year and until. a
futute Grand Master sees fit to make an award of the Pettus Bible, it be
held in the custody of the Grand Secreta.r y and loaned to any Lodge of
this Jurisdiction for use at the initiation, passing, or raising of any good
man and true of Chinese ancestry who is being admitted to our mysteries.

26

PAINTINGS OF PAST GRAND MASTERS

At the present time our Gallery of Paintings of Past Grand Masters
contains macabre near likenesses of three distinguished Brethren. Three
other Past Grand Masters have apparently feared tei sit for their portraits. This deficiency in our gallery of men of distinction should be rectified. In the first place, the allowances made in recent years for portrait
paintings have been insufficient to secure the work of re.ally fine artists
and, secondly. the appropriation has always been made for painting the
picture of the Past Grand Master. To travel long distances, at frequent
intervals, to a studio for sittings is a great imposition upon a Past Grand
Master who is trying to get back to his personal affairs after devoting a
year to Masonry. l, .therefore, recommend that an allotment be made in
appropriate amount to improve and complete the present gallery and
that presently, and in the future, the appropriation each year be made
to paint the picture of the then incumbent Grand Master when it will not
be too inconvenient for him to accommodate himself to the requirements
of the artist.
PETTUS BIBLE

On October 8, 1940, Worshipful .William B. Pettus, Past Master of
International Lodge, Peiping, China, Past District Grand Warden,

EUROPEAN MASONIC RELIEF

During the past year your Grand Master has been importuned by
several Brethren to allow solicitations of money and clothing by Masons,
in the name of Masonry and through Masonic Lodges: the donations to
be sent overseas and distributed by this or that constituent Lodge of
some particular Grand Jurisdiction.
Laudible as is the purpose and as great as is the need, I have been
reluctant to grant these requests for several reasons:
1. If solicitations were to be allowed and donations were to be sent
to Lodges in one country, we would of necessity have to do the same for
Lodges in all other countries where Masonry and war suffering still
exist.
2. Our membership traces its ancestry to every country in Europe.
We could not discriminate, nor could we segregate and apportion the
donations, without considerable confusion and possibly some feeling between the different nationality groups of our Brethren.
3. The regulations of exports from the United States and the regulations of· importations to the several countries are complicated, multi fold,
and even confusing. and require the attention of persons not readily
available to local Lodges.
4. The Grand Lodge of California is not presently equipped to handle the physical aspects of the collection, concentration, cleaning, segregation, and dispatch of the volume of clothing that would be assembled
for this distribution.
.
There were many other reasons, too numerous to set forth here.
which appeared in the picture, but still there was, and is, a crying need.
If collection, dispatch, and distribution is to be effected, it will have
to be done by Grand Lodge, with correspondence and planning on
Grand Lodge level. It will require a special committee with special appro-

28

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

priations to cover the cost of these operations. It will probably require the
services of a paid employee, or employees, to do this job.
.
I submit this problem to the Grand Lodge without recommendation
but, Brethren. the need is great.
I do want to call attention to the fact that this Grand Lodge has made
donations of substantial amounts of money for European Masonic Relief through well organized channels, but the above matter is not primarily a financial problem. It is one of getting goods to our distressed
Brethren before the next winter.
DEOSIONS

.

1. Veritas Lodge No. 640, by Resolution adopted January 8, 1948,
and approved by the Grand Master January 13, 1948. raised the annual
dues of their members from $12.00 to $15.00 per year.
· On inquiry I held:
a. That the Resolution became effective January 13, 1948.
b. The dues are paid quarterly. in advance. and that the Resolution
could not be retroactive.
c. That dues for the first quarter of 1948 remained at $3.00 and became, for all subsequent quarters, $3.75.
d. That all the Brethren of the Lodge paying dues were required to
pay $14.25 as dues for the year 1948, whether or not they had
previously paid $12.00 and received a dues receipt showing payment in full for the year 1948.
e. That the dues receipts for the year 1948 issued on the $12.00
basis should be taken up, and new receipts issued upon the payment of the additional amount, or that the old receipts could be
taken up and endorsed showing the additional payment.
2. Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 inquired about presenting a Fifty Year
Veteran Button to one who was raised more than fifty years ago but,
who during a portion of the time, has been suspended for nonpayment
of dues. The Brother had now paid all dues accrued and accruing during
the period of suspension and was in good standing. I held that it was not
the "payment of dues" but the "being a Master Mason in good standing"
for fifty years that governed and that the period of "gooding standing"
had to total fifty years but need not he continuous.
3. A letter was presented to Delta Lodge No. 471 noting that several
Brethren were forming "A Dollar a Month Club" for the benefit of the
Stockton Chapter Order of DeMolay. The Master was requested to
read the letter in open Lodge and "to recommend this activity to your
membership."
The Master refused to read the communication on the ground that
the request was improper under the provisions of Section 126 of our
Ordinances.
I held that the Master was correct in his ruling and was not on this
account to be criticized or charged with being unsympathetic to the

29

Order of DeMolay, which is doing such excellent work among the youth
of our Jurisdiction.
4. Bethlehem Lodge No. 453 proposed to open on the Third Degree
of Masonry, confer a Degree on one candidate and then close. It proposed thereafter on the same day to open on the Second Degree of
Masonry, and confer that Degree on five candidates.
I held that they could confer only four Second Degrees under these
conditions.
Section 221, of our Ordinances, says "* * * *nor shall it confer
more than five Degrees in any one day."
This limitation is not confined to one particular Degree but applies
to all three of the Degrees collectively.
5. Hornitos Lodge No. 98 elected an Entered Apprentice Mason to
receive the Second and Third Degrees of Masonry in that Lodge, ·residence having been established and waiver of Jurisdiction obtained. The
candidate did not come forward to take his Degrees and subsequently
asked for the return of his fees and his contribution to the Masonic
Homes, stating that he was "going away."
.
I held that the candidate was not entitled to the return of either his
fees or his contribution: that it was bad policy for the Lodge to grant the
request, as they stood ready to complete the contract of conferring the
Degrees, but that, if the candidate moved from the State, established a
residence elsewhere. and asked for a waiver of Jurisdiction to .another
Lodge, then Hornitos Lodge might properly refund both the fees and the
contribution, if it granted the waiver.
6. In Unity Lodge No. 368, Brother X received the First Degree of
Masonry on March 7, 1947. Thereafter he moved to Illinois, established
a domicile there and requested Courtesy Degrees to be conferred by a
Lodge in that state.
Pursuant to the Edict of Grand Master John R. Moore. dated January 11, 1947, ( 1947 Proceedings, page 246) California refused to make
the request. Brother X then applied for, and received, a waiver of
jurisdiction to enable him to petition a Chicago Lodge for the Second
and Third Degrees of Masonry, stating that he was "to permanently
reside in Chicago," He did not make the application, but returned to
California on August 23. 1948. The Lodge asked if they could confer
the remaining Degrees upon Brother X without his having to re-establish
a Masonic residence in California by remaining in the state for one year.
I held that they could confer the Degrees as soon as the candidate
demonstrated his proficiency in the candidate's lectures.
Unity Lodge No. 368 did not lose jurisdiction by granting the
waiver.
Only by the Illinois Lodge electing Brother X to receive the Second
Degree of Masonry would California's jurisdiction terminate. Even if
Brother X had applied for and been rejected by the Chicago Lodge,

31

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Unity Lodge No. 368 would still retain jurisdiction( a) to confer the Degrees upon Brother X in California whether or
not he was then permanently residing in this state or( b) to grant a new waiver or jurisdiction to some other Lodge.
7. Responding to an inquiry from the Santa Clara Masonic Officers'
Association the Grand Master decided in effect as follows:
a. That Officers' Associations are required by sub-section 3rd of Section 53 of the Ordinance and are encouraged by the Grand Lodge
as conducive to the proper administration of Lodges and the
instruction of Lodge Officers in Masonic law and custom.
b. That the individual Lodges. within such an Officers' Association,
may under Section 157 of our Ordinance, contribute to the reasonable expenses of such Association while functioning as such. in
the amounts agreed upon by the respective Lodges. and that such .
contributions are "necessary expenses of the Lodge."
c. That the providing. by the Association, of a reasonable meal for
those Lodge Officers in attendance. including the Inspectors,
where the real purpose of such provision is to facilitate and expedite the business of the Association, is a proper expenditure of
the Association's funds.
d. That the providing of a banquet for the Officers. or providing a
meal primarily for social purposes, is not proper.
e. That the payment of the expenses of travel, food, and housing.
or any of these items directly to or for the individual Officers of
the Lodges in atten~ance at such Officer meetings is not a proper
charge against the Lodge which the Officer represents. and
cannot be paid either by the Lodge or by the Association, except
to the extent above indicated.
f, That joint or united meetings of two cir more lawfully organized
District Officers' Associations with the approval of the Inspector
of each participating District are proper and do not offend our
law.
8. The by-laws of Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481 provided that "the
stated meetings of this Lodge shall be holden on the first Monday in
each month: except that in any month when t~e regular meeting date
shall fall on January 1st, or July 4th, legal holidays, etc."
This year Independence Day fell on Sunday, July 4. and the legal
observance of this date, as is usual in such cases, was on July 5. The
Lodge inquired if it should hold it's stated meeting for July on the flfth
of the month or on the next succeeding Monday. I held that July 5 was
the proper meeting date.
9. On inquiry from Temple Lodge No. 14, I held that the realized
proceeds from the sale of stock bequeathed to the Lodge was not revenue
within the provisions of Section 159 of our Ordinances so that 20%
thereof could be used for the purposes of refreshment. I held that the
term "revenue," as used in this section, meant income from investments

and properties, dues received from member, and fees received from applicants, but that profit or loss upon the sale of capital assets of the
Lodge was not to be included in the calculation of the amount available
for refreshment and fraternal intercourse.
10. York Lodge No. 423 reported that a candidate was elected to receive the Degrees of Masonry and that, thereafter, and before his initiation, it was discovered that he had been previously rejected by another
Lodge and had not so reported in answer to Questions 8 and 9 of his
application.
At the next stated meeting of the Lodge, the Master reported the
facts, declared the previous ballot null and void and the candidate rejected. I held that the Master had no authority to declare the ballot void
on this account and that the proper method of procedure was to make
objection to the candidate's initiation pursuant to Section 237 of our
Ordinances and then, at the end of the sixty day period, to declare the
candidate rejected.
11. A Degree Team in Northern California conferred the Third
Degree of Masonry in a manner not in conformity with the Ritual and
work as adopted by Grand Lodge and taught by the Grand Lecturer.
This particular group had, on quite a number of previous occasions, become entirely "too enthusiastic", and had failed to heed gentle admonitions given by several Brethren. It seemed necessary that the Grand
Master should intervene, and I thereupon deprived them of the privilege
of doing further work.
Sub-section 6 of the Section 34 of Ordinances specifically gives the
Grand Master power "to compel its (any Lodge) conformity to Masonic
usage."
This necessarily includes the Brethren working in the Lodge. I also
believe that it is within the inherent power of the Grand Master to deny
any Brother or group of Brethren the privilege of participating in Degree work where he, or they, in so doing, persist in doing it contrary to
the words and form prescribed by ·Grand Lodge.
On receipt of this expression of my will and displeasure, the Director and several members of this particular Team appeared before me in
person and, while somewhat minimizing the action of the Brethren conferring the Degree, nevertheless apologized and gave real assurances
that any further work that they might be permitted to do would conform strictly to our regulations and the Grand Lecturer's instruction.
Now I could deprive them of the privilege of working 'but I could
not grant them unlimited authority to work. Our law is plain, "Teams
work only upon invitation of the Master of the Lodge, obtained without
. pressure, and work subject to his responsibility as to their proficiency."
What I did was to allow the Brothers to go back to work, subject to these
limitations of our law.

30

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

There might arise cases where the Master of the Lodge should be
"punished" for permitting "over-enthusiasm," for his is the responsibility
to see that the work is done correctly, but here corrective measures were
applied directly to the offenders.
Degree teams of co-workers are to be encouraged where the candidate is a member of the organization which the team represents, but Masonry is not a playground. It seeks to teach wise and serious truths, and
a candidate is not brought to the realization of this purpose if his De·
gree is conferred in an undignified manner. This particular incident requires no further attention, but is here reported to emphasize the fact
that our Degrees must be conferred strictly in accordance with the work
as adopted by the Grand Lodge and the instruction of the Grand Lecturer, and not otherwise, or serious consequences may befall the offenders.
12. The Master of a Lodge in Northern California, whose term was
expiring in January 1948, with the consent of his Lodge, spent more than
the cumulated 20% of the Lodge's revenue for purposes of refreshment
and fraternal intercourse. The overdraft, as reported, was a substantial
amount. I immediately suspended the Master of ~he Lodge, put the Senior
Warden in charge, directed an audit of the Lodge books, and ordered
that the Installation of Officers for the ensuing year be held up. pending
a full investigation. Two days later the Inspector of the District reported
that the Master and three or four of the Brethren of the Lodge, without
bargaining, had voluntarily made a gift to the Lodge of a sum equivalent
to the total overdraft. I inquired if the contributions made would in anywise be a burden on the donors and, on being informed that they were
each well able to make the donation, I restored the Master to authority
and permitted the installing of Officers elected for the ensuing Masonic
year.
Certainly the Master's punishment for this transgression has been
sufficient, and the matter is reported here only as a warning and advice to
other Masters as to their responsibility for the supervision of Lodge finances, as well as all other Lodge affairs.
I am pleased that the Master of this Lodge voluntarily offered a solu- •
tion which permitted me to be gracious to him, and I am happy that he
is now enjoying the title of Past Master, because his administration in all
other respects rightfully deserved the plaudits of his Brethren.

date of March 12, 1947, or to quote at length any of the numerous Masonic historians upon the subject.
If you ~re not aware of the contents of these documents, it is hoped
that you will soon make yourself familiar with them.
Certain further observations upon the subject, however, are desirable
at this time.
.
1. The right of Masonic Lodges to become "Mother Lodges" by issuing warrants of.~onstituti?,n ce~sed in 1717, both among the "Ancients"
and among the Moderns. This I have over the signature of the Librarian and Curator. of the United Grand Lodge of England, under date of
· August 8, 1948, m reply to an inquiry made directly to that Grand Lodge
which is the legitimate successor of both Grand Lodges originally exist~
ing in England.
After the year 1717, new Lodges under English authority were
created by Charter from the Grand Lodge, or by warrant from a Provincial Grand Master of the particular area. The Provincial Grand Master's
own Lodge was frequently referred to as a Provincial Grand Lodge and
oft' times was e~roneously referred to as a "Mother Lodge." The authority for warranting new Lodges was with the Provincial Grand Master
however. and not in the so-called Provincial Grand Lodge.
'
. 2. It is c~ai~ed t~a~ .on March 6. 1775, Army Lodge No. 441, of the
Irish Constitution, initiated Prince Hall and fourteen other men of
African ancestry. There are two unusual factors in this assertion which
make it's authenticity questionable:
(a) That fifteen civilian Negroes should "apply" at the same time
for Masonry to a regimental Lodge which, theretofore, had no African
Brethren.
( b) That the fifteen should have been accepted and initiated on the
same~~~·.( Th~. ~istories "'.hich I have examined do not indicate that the
word initiated is used in its true Masonic sense, so the date may be the
day they. received their Third Degree. "First" or "Third" Degree, fifteen
of them in one Lodge meeting was certainly a full day's work if it did
take place, especially since the Red Coats were so concerned at 'that time
with the activities of the American patriots.) (It was just forty days
before the ride of Paul Revere. )
3. Army Lodge No. 441 did not authorize the formation of African
Lodge No. 1.
On page 10 of the Massachusetts Pamphlet above-referred to we

NEGRO MASONRY

There is no time or necessity to reiterate here or republish the correspondence had by Grand Master John R. Moore, of the Grand Lodge
of California ( 1946-194 7), which is set forth in the message of Most
Worshipful Brother Moore to the Grand Lodge of California in 1947;
to reprint here the material contained in a pamphlet entitled "Negro
Free Masonry," issued by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts under

ftnd:

33

'

"On July 3, 1776, African Lodge No. 1 was organized in Boston by
an assembly ,?f unaffiliated Negro Brethren and authority from that
Army Lodge.
There is grave doubt that these Brethren were unaffiliated for they
had been made Masons ( 1) but sixteen months before. Despite the assertions that they were authorized by Army Lodge to meet as a regular

34

35

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge, it is to be noted that they never attempted to act as a Lodge, for
they neither "worked" nor "walked on St. John's Day, etc." If they were
in fact unaffiliated Masons, they were simply a group which in present
day language we :would describe as a Masonic Club functioning only ~s
such, and they then came under the jurisdiction either of the Provincial
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, of which Joseph Warren was Provincial Grand Master (Ancient); or under the jurisdiction of the St.
John's Provincial Grand Lodge, which claimed to function under Provincial Grand Master John Rowe, under the authority of the Grand
Lodge of England (Modern).
It is interesting to note that the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts
(Ancient} had declared "that after March 17, 1776, there could be no
pretense of English Grand Lodge control in Massachusetts."
African Lodge No. 1. on and after July 3, 1776, was merely a group
of Masons ( 1) hoping to get a warrant of authority to ac.t as a Lodge.
They knew that they were not a Lodge, for they never attempted to
functipn as such, and shortly thereafter, in 1776, they accepted a limited
"Permit" from Provincial Grand Master John Rowe "to walk on St.
John's Day and bury our dead in form, etc."
If they were a duly constituted Lodge, claiming authority as such
from Army Lodge No. 441, why did they ask of, or accept from Provincial Grand Master Rowe, a document of authority which, under such
circumstances, limited their rights, powers, and privileges to a lesser
status?
On account of the declaration of March 17, 1776, made by the
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, and for other reasons, the authority of
Provincial Grand Master Rowe on July 3, 1776, has always been seriously questioned. At best African Lodge No. 1 in 1776 became only a limited Lodge under Rowe's authority(?), and continued as such until they
got a Charter and were constituted in May 6, 1787. (The Charter was
dated Sept. 29, .1784.)
4. African Lodge No. 1 was not a regular Lodge. The Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts (Ancient) was formed on March 8, 1777,
and claimed exclusive jurisdiction of Massachusetts. The St. John's
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts (Modern) was formed on July 29,
1790. These two Grand Lodges united to form the present Grand
Lodge of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1792. Neither one of
these original Massachusetts Grand Lodges ever recognized or accepted
African Lodge No. 1 as legitimate, though African Lodge No. 1 is now
claimed to have been a limited (a St. John's or Hedge Lodge) from shortly after July 3, 1776, to May 6, 1787, and a regularly constituted Lodge
under English authority (Modern) from this latter date until 1791,
when it renounced that authority and attempted to form a Grand Lodge
of its own, out of a so-called "general assembly of the Craft." From the
very inception of its organization up to and including the time of its at-

tempt to found its own Grand Lodge, the status of African Lodge No. 1
(African Lodge No. 459} was questionable, and each individual step in
its endeavor to obtain "legitimacy" is subject to question upon one point
or another. It is quite significent that neither of the then existing Grand
Lodges of Massachusetts ever recognized, or accepted, or had Masonic
intercourse with African Lodge No. 1. This certainly could not be
charged to race prejudice, for race prejudice did not exist in New England. and certainly not in Massathusetts, until some time after the Civil
War, if ever. If African Lodge was unaccepted and unrecognized by
authoritative Masonry in the l 700's, when all the facts of its organization and its activities were fresh and well-known to the Masons of that
time, what excuse is there for its recognition after all these years.
Masons are recognized only upon the basis of indisputable, affirmative
evidence. If the Negroes could not make that affirmative proof at the
close of the Eighteenth Century, why recognize them now when so many
of the material, alleged facts are still subject to honest and reasonable
question.
·
5. African Lodge No. 459 irregular, becomes clandestine.
Stating the matter in the most favorable light to African Lodge, that
Lodge up to 1790 was at best an irregular Lodge, but its action subsequent to that date make it unquestionably clandestine. We may disregard all the irregularities in the formation of African Lodge and overlook all the questionable authorities contributing to its establishment.
We may even assume that it became "legitimate" on its Constitution as
African Lodge No. 459 on May 6, 1787, but what happened in its affairs
after that time made it and all its successors clandestine.
As pointed out above, the Massachusetts "Ancients" in 1777, and
the Massachusetts "Modems" in 1790, each formed their own Grand
Lodge. "Ancient" Masonry and "Modern" Masonry were the only
recognized Masonry existing in the world at that time. These two
Grand Lodges were claiming exclusive jurisdiction over Massachusetts
during this period, and they settled their differences and united into the
present Grand Lodge of Massachusetts in 1792. Provincial Grand
Master Rowe (Modem} had died in February 1787.
Past Grand Master Melvin F. Johnson of Massachusetts says,
"African Grand Lodge ( 1791) was formed by a general assemblage of
the Craft." This general assembly ( 1 ) of the Craft (Modern) could not
have been authorized by ·Rowe, and there was already a Grand Lodge of
Massachusetts (Modern) existing in that commonwealth.
With the "Ancient" and the "Modern" Brethren formally organized,
who in authority could call and who could attend legally this so-called
"general assemblage of the Craft" in 1791 to form the African Grand
Lodge? With hundreds of Master Masons in Massachusetts, what
Masons met in which corner of what room and presumed to call themselves a "general assemblage of the Craft," and then create for themselves a Grand Lodge.

36

PROCEEDINGS OP TI:IB

At that moment this group of Negro Masons, whatever their status
may have been before that time, became clandestine, and all their successors have been clandestine ever since. If the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts is right in saying that, because the skins of these Masons were
black, they had this right to renounce the English Masonry and the
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts (Modern) and form a still third Grand
Lodge in the same territory: then, by that same token, our Chinese
Brethren, our French Brethren, our Italian Brethren, our German Brethren, our Hawaiian Brethren, and our Filipino Brethren, here in California, can walk out of this room and each group form its own, separate Grand Lodge of California. On this principle, each of these
separate groups, even though they be but a handful of Masons, can
assemble, call themselves "a general assemblage of the Craft," vote to
establish its own Grand Lodge, and add to the general confusion of
Masonry. All of this is an absurdity, but no more absurd or Masonically
illegal than what the African Brethren ( 1) of Massachusetts did in 1791,
as contended now by Massachusetts. No other conclusion can be drawn
but this that, regardless of what happened before, from 1791 to this
date, every socalled Mason of Prince Hall affiliation is clandestine and
every regular Mason, made so in a regular Lodge anywhere in this whole
world, who at anytime affiliated with one of the Prince Hall constituent
Lodges, or any of the other groups stemming therefrom, became thereupon clandestine.
Out of the mouth of the most enthusiastic present day Caucasian
supporter of Negro Masonry comes the words which destroy all the socalled proof of Prince Hall Masonry's regularity and leave that Masonry exposed as being truly clandestine.
Massachusetts says. page 7, of her pamphlet: "Thus for 170 years
African Lodge and its successors have been functioning in Massachusetts in good faith and with justifiable belief that their origin and procedure were as regular and legitimate as we have thought ours to be."
The word "justifiable" above used can only mean that Massachusetts
believes her own regularity to be no more or less than that of the Negroes. When she puts herself on this level. what action does she expect
the other Grand Jurisdictions of the world to take, especially when she,
for 170 years has been, and all the other Jurisdictions of the world have
been and still are, so firmly convinced that Prince Hall Masonry is
clandestine?
THE IssuE Is NoT NEGRO MASONRY BuT DUPLICATE
TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION

Our present differences with the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Massachusetts are but incidentally concerned with its belief as to
the regularity of Prince Hall Masonry. It is something much more fundamental in Masonic affairs that concerns us. It is most unfortunate
that the real issue has been obscured by highly technical and meticulous

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

37

discussion of the origin of Negro Masonry in the United States and its
present status, and that the situation has become confused with considerations of civil liberties and extra-Masonic political policies and expediencies. The question of civil liberties for American citizens with dark
skins is not before us and has no place in this discussion. This decision
should be made solely upon the merits of the Masonic case. Race, color,
or creed should not influence that decision.
The real issue is that the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, after one
hundred and sixty years of claiming and exercising exclusive territorial
Jurisdiction, and after exclusive territorial jurisdiction has become firmly
established as the Masonic law and c·ustom of all jurisdictions of the
United States and the goal to which all other organized Masonry in all
other countries of the world is striving, now suddenly renounces that
principle and boldly shares its jurisdiction in violation of that historic
position.
It is to be noted that Section 116 of Ordinances of the Grand Lodge
of California provides:
"A Lodge shall not recognize any Body, purporting to be a Masonic
Lodge, which shall be holden within the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of any State or Territory of the United States without authority from such Grand Lodge * * * .''
It is unfortunate that Massachusetts does not have a similar ordinance or, if she has. she does not heed it, for Prince Hall affiliates are
attempting to be, and operate as, Masons in California.
Massachusetts ·asserts her right to share her jurisdiction (Pamphlet
of March 12, 1947, page 15) in the following words:
"Assuming that our Grand Lodge has rightfully had and now has
exclusive Masonic Jurisdiction over Massachusetts, then we certainly have the right to allow another Grand Lodge to share that
Jurisdiction to such an extent as we see flt.''
California contends that, at least so far as the Jurisdictions within the
territorial boundaries of the United States are concerned, the day of
superimposed or duplicate Masonic Jurisdictions is long since at an end,
and no excuse for it exists especially where the same language is spoken.
Massachusetts in her formal Resolution complained of the approaching chaos in extra-Masonic "existing social conditions," yet by her very
action she brings this confusion into Masonic affairs. She says that in
so far as she is concerned, Prince tfall Masonry in Massachusetts is just
as legitimate as she is. Carried to its logical conclusion, every race is entitled to its own Masonic Grand Lodge. Under these conditions, when
matters of inter-jurisdictional Masonic concern arise, it will then be
necessary to discover the color of the skin or the native tongue of the
individuals concerned before other Jurisdictions may know which of the
many Grand Lodges in a particular state is to be contacted, and there
can be no final Masonic authority in that Jurisdiction.

39

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

If Massachusetts desires to recognize the African Brethren (?), heal
them or any of them, and take them into her fold, that is entirely her
business and is entirely proper, Masonically, for Masonry unites men .
of every country, sect, and opinion.
We agree with Past Grand Master Johnson of Massachusetts on at
least one point, "Culture, not color," is the determining qualification.
That is the kind of Masonry which California practices. Past Grand
Master John R. Moore, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson, who is
our present Grand Secretary; and your Grand Master now before you,
each has "sat" in Lodge with many regular Masons of African ancestry.
One of these, incidentally. was Master of a Lodge holding a Charte1
from the United Grand Lodge of England. We have here in California
many Masons. not of the Caucasian race. Without making any comparisons, let me say that full-blooded Filipinos and full-blooded Hawaiians are members of our Lodges and, at this moment within this Grand
Lodge, there sits a Brother of pure Chinese blood who has served
two terms as Master of our Confidence Lodge No. 203, situated in
Monterey County. in the State of California. Several of our Lodges
presently have elective Officers who are Chinese, and many such Brethren have served our Lodges as Masters. All these Brethren are individuals of culture, knowledge, and understanding, and they are good
men and true and of real Masonic character.
Further, our Grand Lodge records show that a full-blooded Negro
sat as an invited guest in one of the Annual Communications of this
Grand Lodge, ( 1873 Proceedings, page 25), and we have the most
cordial relationships with the Grand Lodge of New Jersey which has a
constituent Lodge whose membership is composed entirely of Negroes.
I say these things here to demonstrate clearly that we mean what we
say when we say that Negro Masonry is not the real issue. It is an
issue to the extent that Massachusetts has recognized as legitimate in
Massachusetts a parent group which has so-called Masonic Lodges in
California. It also is an issue to the extent that Massachusetts, by her
action, is aiding in this attempted invasion of California's Masonic Jurisdiction.
That the Grand Jurisdiction of Massachusetts, by its action of March
12, 1947, did and is aiding this effort to invade the Jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge. J;. & A. M. of California, is clearly evidenced by the following quotation from a so-called Masonic publication printed in California and issued under date of September 1948. It is needless for me
to add that this journal is not an official Masonic publication and has no
Masonic standing whatever with the Grand Lodge of California. I also
add that it is NOT a Negro publication.

elected president of the Masters and Wardens Association of the Prince
Hall Masons of Los Angeles, California. In his new office, he has been
authorized by Most Worshipful George R. Vaughn. Grand Master, of
the Most Worshipful Prince Hall Grand Lodge of the State of California, and Jurisdiction, to endeavor to bring to the front, information recently forwarded this body from the files of the Grand Lodge of the
State of Massachusetts. This information positively establishes the
Prince Hall Masonic Family as orthodox and duly chartered (italics
mine) in its endeavors to fulfill the pre-established modes of Masonic
procedure in forwarding the cause of the Fatherhood of God and the
Brotherhood of Man.
"We are looking forward to the day, said Brother Herbert, when the
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California will assert themselves in a more effective manner in lending the full weight of their
strength and assistance to those requisites of Brotherhood which are conducive to the best growth and development of our bodies."
And ·Massachusetts was so naive as to believe that she could confine the effects of her resolution of March 12, 1947, to the territorial
limits of that commonwealth!
Massachusetts can never convince any Prince Hall Mason in California that he has not been recognized by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts (white).
The fundamental issue, however, is duplicate territorial jurisdiction,
which in this day, is contrary to Masonic law and custom. Upon this
issue we humbly submit that the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts is not
acting for the best interests of Masonry in general.
My Brethren, on this subject now before us I have spoken freely and
,frankly and perhaps overforcibly. We do not intend offense. We seek
clarity and clarification. We desire correction of an important misstep
Jn Masonic progress. We do not suggest to this Grand Lodge that it
should take any action to interrupt or disturb the peace and good fellowship which. except in this single instance, has existed for nearly one
hundred years between the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts and the
Grand Lodge of California. Rather do we hope that these remarks
may clear the minds, not only of the Brethren of our two great Jurisdictions, but also may simplify the issue for the leaders of the other
Grand Jurisdictions of this United States. We pray that some clear
thinkers and some kind friends in some of these Jurisdictions may whisper good counsel, gently admonish Massachusetts of her error, and suci:eed in convincing her that she is following a false Messiah, not out of.
but into, a Masonic wilderness.

38

"PRINCE HALL MASONS SEEK WHITE ALLIES

BOARDS, TRUSTEES, AND COMMITTEES

"Archie W. Herbert, Worshipful Master of Guardian Lodge No.
50, F. & A . M ., Prince Hall Affiliation, was recently honored by being

I am especially appreciative and proud of the accomplishments of
the Trustees of our Masonic Homes, the Trustees of our Masonic Club-

40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Master and the other Grand Lodge Officers and to the Committeemen of
Grand Lodge, Brother Wilson does not presume to dictate, but, upon
request, he has immediately available a wealth of precedence to the particular problem and a reasoned course of proposed procedure that is
appreciated greatly by those who must make the ultimate decision.
For this valuable service to me and my Committeemen, I extend to
Brother Wilson my sincere thanks and appreciation, but in this case I
do not deem that to be sufficient. The last several years have brought
about great economic changes. The value of the dollar has decreased.
The cost of the living has greatly increased. Wages and salaries in
every line of business have been raised materially. The value of personal services. measured in terms of dollars, has become greater. However. in the case of our Grand Secretary. the value of his services,
measured in efficiency, knowledge, and understanding, has increased
without any addition to his monetary rewards. A:her considerable consultation with other leaders of our Craft, I recommend that this Grand
Lodge raise the salary of the Grand Secretary by the sum of $2,000 a
year, to be effective as of August 1, 1948, which is the beginning of the
Masonic financial year.

houses, the Board of Control. and the Constitutional and Special Committees of this Grand Lodge. And you, too, should be, my Brethren!
They. each and all, have performed their tasks well and faithfully.
as will more fully appear when they render their reports to this Grand
Lodge. For their thoughtful labors, I thank them, not only on my
behalf but on the behalf of the 182,000 Masons in California, whom
they serve. Well done!
INSPECTORS

Since 1934, as Assistant Grand Lecturer and in other Masonic offices,
I have had the privilege of working with the Inspectors of the several
Masonic Districts. I thought I possessed some knowledge and appreciation of the value of the work which they are doing for Masonry and
perhaps I do, but during this year they. as my representatives. have been
unusually loyal and courteous, frank and helpful. diligent and industrious. They have given unstintingly of their time to the demands of the
Masons of their Districts and to the requests of their Grand Master on
even more than convenient occasions. No man, until he has held the office
of Grand Master of Masons, can fully appreciate their work. For their
help to me, I sincerely thank them.

RECOMMENDATIONS

GRAND LECTURER AND ASSISTANTS

Our Grand Lecturer. Arthur M. Warren, and his assistants, Obed
W. Carr, Walter H. E. VonKonsky. Mervyn E. Hanshaw, and Frank
Harwell, Jr., have each and all worked well in the vineyards. The activities of these Brethren do not bring them in direct contact with the Officers and Brethren of the several Lodges except at quite infrequent intervals. yet their Committee work and their supervision of the Ritualistic
work of the Fraternity is reflected in the skill of the Inspectors, and the
work being done in our Lodge room.
It is with great regret that I accepted the resignation of Past Grand
Master Gilbert C. DeForest from the office of Assistant Grand Lecturer
and as a member of the Ritual Committee. Brother DeForest is a per£ectionist, and his long service to Masonry in this particular branch of
our work, as well as in our other fields, has been of great value. His retirement is a distinct loss.
GRAND SECRETARY

Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson, as Grand Secretary, is conducting, in a manner that is highly satisfactory, an office of great importance to Masonry. He is also maintaining the Jurisdiction of California
in a position of great respect among the Masonic Grand Jurisdictions of
the world. Not only in the minutiae of technical, administrative detail
but also in the broad over all picture of Masonic operations and interjurisdictional affairs, Brother Wilson has a knowledge and understanding of Masonry that is of inestimable value to the Craft. To the Grand

41

II"

I

(a) I recommend that the language of Section 155 of our Ordinances be changed to indicate clearly to a layman that a single Lodge
may use a Corporation for the ownership and operation of its Temple.
This is for the best interests of Masonry and, frankly. this form is quite
commonly used throughout our Jurisdiction in spite of the present language of this section, which prohibits it.
( b) Suitable financial assistance should be given to Georgetown
Lodge No~ 25 and to North East Lodge No. 266 to enable them to rebuild
their Lodge Halls.
( c) The salary of the Grand Secretary should be increased by the
amount and for the reasons hereinbefore set forth.
( d) Grand Lodge at this Communication should vest in the Memorial Building Committee authority to purchase at this time real estate
in San Francisco upon which a building suitable for Grand Lodge use
can ultimately be constructed. Also, it should authorize it to have
plans, specifications, and estimates of costs prepared, appropriating
the necessary funds both for the purchase and for the cost of preparing
plans and specifications. This should be done now, whether or not it is
possible to have such a building completed in time for occupancy at our
Centennial Celebration Communication. This committee should also be
requested to present, at the next Annual Communication of this Grand
Lodge, a plan for financing the entire undertaking.
( e) The Annual Financial Budget of Grand Lodge, both income
and expenditures, should be built up, especially during these prosperous

42

43

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

times, so that a substantial surplus could be added each year to the cap~
ital assets of Grand Lodge. Financial strength and reserves against
adverse times are highly desirable. The wealth of Grand Lodge, when
we delete from the figures the monies belonging to the Endowment Fund,
the Masonic Homes Fund, and other special funds, which are available
only for specific purposes, is not at all in keeping with the dignity and
importance of Grand Lodge or its potential financial requirements. We
should have a program of continuing financial growth. This, my Breth~
ren, is just a sound business principle which every business organization
pursues in its every day operations. This Grand Lodge should conduct
its affairs upon the same basis. Let us be business~like as well as broth~
erly, and this should be a continuing policy of Grand Lodge.
(f) Section 251 of our Ordinances shoukl be amended so that the
minimum annual dues payable by a member to his Lodge would be the
sum of twelve dollars per year. The value of the dollar has materially de~
creased. "A Lodge that is strong financially is generally strong spiritu~
ally."
( g) I recommend the appointment of a special committee to study
Masonic trial procedures of the several Grand Jurisdictions and to
recommend revisions in our trial ordinances.
I believe that the quality of our trials and of our Masonic justice can
be improved and that the Brothers of the Lodges will welcome a revision,
which removes from them the burdens and responsibilities of sitting in
judgment upon one of their own members.
In many jurisdictions the trials are conducted by special panels of
experienced Masons appointed by the Grand Master for the particular
trial, and the case for the prosecution is presented by a representative
of the Grand Lodge.

you invested me seemed a reservoir of strength which would enable me
to "give rather than receive," but I reckoned not with the courtesies and
generosities of the Brethren of our Craft ·and with my own limitations.
Everywhere in my travels I found friendship and brotherly love, cour~
tesy and hospitality, sincerity of purpose and high resolve, among the
high, the low, the rich, and the poor; all offered without stint or limitation.
The impact of these contacts greatly broadened my knowledge and un~
derstanding of men, and of Masons, and Masonry. I have endeavored
to pass on to the Brethren of this Jurisdiction some of these perceptions.
However, the balance sheet now shows that, both in pleasure and in
profit, I have received far more than I could impart. Within the store~
house of heart and mind, there remain the great riches of remembrance
and, from this storehouse, I hope to continue the privilege of serving
Masonry in that sanctum of serenity, that truly distinguished and un~
official office of Past Grand Master of the Grand Jurisdiction of Cali~
fornia.
Thanks again, my Brethren, for the honors which you have conferred
upon me, for the wealth of the finer things of life that have become mine
by reason of your considerations, and for the privilege of serving.

CONCLUSION
And so we come to the end of these lines Almost forty years ago a distinguished gentleman, who is with us to~
day, stood, as I now stand before this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of California, and said, "The usefulness of men and institutions is to be
determined by what they give rather than by what they receive * * *
the past can only be justified by more potential labors in the present and
by passing on to posterity an organization improved and broadened in
its scope and usefulness."
The brilliant wisdom of those words still gleams with undiminished
luster and the battle cry, "Our charity must minister to the minds and
souls of men, as well as to their bodies," is both a summation of our glori~
ous progress and a guide~post pointing to a further broadened scope of
usefulness in the magnificent future that lies before us.
For more than a quarter of a century his philosophy of usefulness ·has
been mine. At the commencement of this term, the high office with which

The message was ref erred to the Committee on Segregation, and the
Deputy Grand Master appointed the following as members of that
Committee: Roy Lenthall, Chairman, James B. Lawson and Gustaf A ..
B. Quick.
Telegrams of congratulations were received from the Grand Lodge
of Idaho, Past Grand Master C. A. Carlson of Nevada, the International
Order of Job's Daughters, Past Grand Master Earl Warren, and a
letter from Past Grand Master James B. Gist.
The Grand Secretary was directed to send telegrams of greetings to
all absent Past Grand Masters.
At 12:45 P.M. Grand Lodge was 'called off until 1 :45 P.M.

Sincerely and fraternally,

Grand Master

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
AFTERNOON SESSION

Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :45 P. M .. the Grand Master
presiding.
The following distinguished guests were presented at the altar and
greeted with appropriate remarks by the Grand Master:
Lloyd K. McRae, Grand Master of Oregon,
Wilfred T. Voss, Grand Master of Nevada,
Lee Garrett, Grand Master of Arizona,
Joseph A. E. Ivey, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of
Arizona,
E. C. Peterson, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of
Nevada,
Shalor C. Eldridge, Deputy Grand Master of Oregon,
Asa Hankerson, Past Grand Master of Washington,
Philip N. Streit, Grand Inspector for the Grand Lodge of Ireland
for China and Hongkong.

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Secretary then read the following resolutions, all of
which were referred by the Grand Master to the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes :
TO INCREASE REFRESHMENT FUND

Whereas, Section 159 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge of California provides that a Lodge may not expend to exceed twenty per
cent of its total revenue for purposes of refreshment and the promo~
tion of fraternal intercourse, and
Whereas, this provision was made at a time when the cost of
living was considerably less than it is at present, and
Whereas, for this reason the limitation set by said section for
purpose of refreshment and fraternal intercourse is now insufficient
to maintain the minimum enjoyment of those features necessary for
keeping the brethren of the Lodge in proper contact, and
Whereas, the decrease and number of new candidates is lowering
the base on which said allowable percentage can be calculated, now
therefore,
Be It Resolved, That the Grand Lodge be requested to consider
the amendment of Section 159 of its Ordinances to allow a greater
percentage of the total revenue for a member Lodge to use for refreshments and promotion of fraternal intercourse, by changing the maximum percentage therein provided from 20% to 30%.
Respectfully submitted,
BRYCE C. RATHBUN,

Senior Warden Security Lodge 581.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

45

PLAQUE FOR WESTERN STAR LODGE NO 2

Whereas Western Star Lodge No. 2, one of the three pioneer
Lodges which formed this Grand Lodge in 1850, is holding its centennial this year, celebrating the issuance of its charter from the
Grand Lodge of Missouri on May 10, 1848;
And whereas this charter is the oldest one in point of date of
issuance of all charters of Masonic Lodges in California;
And whereas, since its Roll-call night held on May 10, 1948,
when 104 of its 126 members signed the register, this Lodge has been
host to thirty-eight other California Lodges which have come to the
old mining town of Shasta in northern California and have conferre1
degrees as guest Lodges in the hall of Western Star Lodge No. 2:
And whereas the Grand Master of the State of Missouri came all
the way from that state during the summer of 1948 to pay a visit to
this Lodge and to present it a congratulatory plaque from the Free
and Accepted Masons of Missouri:
And whereas almost three thousand Masons have signed the
tiler's register as visitors during this year and thousands of nonMasons have visited the hall to view the Masonic relics on deposit
there:
It would seem flt that the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of California at this 1948 annual communication should pay
some tribute towards this pioneer Lodge .which has continued to carry
on in a little mining town long after the gold~rush days have passed
it by;
Be It Therefore Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of California
present to Western Star Lodge No. 2 of Shasta, California, a small
bronze plaque suitable for hanging on its walls containing some congratulatory message from the Grand Lodge to the subordinate Lodge
upon its centennial year, the Grand Master being authorized to give
the message and to arrange for the proper presentation of the plaque
to the Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,

F. Ross,
Past Master Reading Lodge 254.

ALBERT

GROUP DEGREES

Whereas. for several years past there has been a very noticeable
falling off of attendance by members at the degree meetings in most
of our larger Lodges. Believing that good attendance at our meetings
should be one of the important accomplishments of the fraternity
thereby building up good fellowship through social intercourse, and
believing that one of the contributing factors in causing a decline in

46

47

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

atte~dance at the degree meetings is the necessity, under the present

Be It Resolved, That our law be so amended as to require but six
months residence for an applicant for any or all of the three degrees,
who presents a dimit or a waiver of Jurisdiction from a constituent
Lodge of a Grand Lodge recognized hy this Grand Lodge.

~equirements of t~e ritual, to hold from some six to eight special meet-

~ngs each month ~n order that ~he candidates may receive the degrees
m a reasonable time, and believing further that a substantial reduction in the number of the degree meetings would tend to encourage a
l~rger attendance, that the continued large amount of degree work
discou~ages many. of our members who have ability as leaders from
becommg officers m the Lodges; therefore
Be It Resolved, That the Ritual Committee be authorized and instructed to modify the ritual and floor work as now used so as to
permit the initiati~n, passing and raising of candidates in 'groups of
not to exceed five m the first and second sections of either of the three
degrees in any one meeting.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY R. BROWN,

P. M. Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579.
25 YEAR BUTIONS
At the stated meeting of Pasadena Lodge No. 272, F. & A. M.,
held on the above date, a resolution was introduced and passed by
vote of _the_ Lodge, re~uesting the Grand Lodge at its next annual
communication to consider the feasibility of issuing 25-year buttons
to those Masons in this jurisdiction who have been members of the
Fraternity for 25 years.

Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT R. HARGRAVE,

P. M. Sun Garden Lodge No. 530.
PURCHASE OF BENICIA TEMPLE

Resolved, That the incoming Grand Master be authorized to
appoint a Committee to investigate the feasibility of the ultimate purchase by Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., of the Old Masonic Temple at
Benecia and report their findings at the next Annual Communication
of this Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. This temple was the first official
Masonic Temple built in California. The lumber of which was donated
by Brother Robert Semple, member of Benecia Lodge No. 5, F. & A.
M .. and President of the Constitutional Convention held at Monterey
in 1849.
Respectfully submitted,
LAWRENCE

x. CARROLL,

Master Benecia Lodge No. 5.
PUBLIC INSTALLATIONS

Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. Boorn,
Pasadena Lodge No. 272.
RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT REDUCTION

Whereas, At the 98th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
appro.val was given to the Edict of Grand Master Moore relative to
the conferring of Courtesy Degrees; and
Whereas, Entered Apprentice Masons and Fellowcraft Masons
of o~her jurisdictions who are permanent residents of California are
required _to_ present di~its or waivers of jurisdictions and to apply for
the remammg degrees m a local Lodge; and
Whereas, Such applicants must conform to our requirements of residence to qualify for such application; and
.
Whereas, Such applicants have been investigated, elected and in
some ca_ses had deg~ees conferre~ upon them and must be presumed
to be smtable Masonic material; and
Whereas, It appears that our requirement of twelve months residence forks an undue and unnecessary hardship on such persons , now

Resolved, That Public Installations be forbidden in this Grand
Jurisdiction.
Respectfully submitted,
JoHN lsOLA,

P. M. Speranza Italiana No. 219.
The following resolution was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California:
Compensation paid to Grand Lodge Officers, Committeemen and
Representatives, has always been computed on the basis of "twice
the single first class one way railway fare, plus Pullman sleeper, where
necessary." Compensation for the 1948 convocation has been computed on this basis.
Our attention has been called to the wording of Section 66 of the
Ordinances, which says that the compensation shall be "the exact
cost of transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge

48

49

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in the jurisdiction to the place of meeting of Grand Lodge and return,
viz: the unlimited flrst-class railroad fare, together with connecting
steamer or stage fare, and cost of berth in sleeper when required."
It has been suggested to us that this provision means that compensation should not exceed the cost of a first class round trip ticket, plus
sleeper when necessary.
If this is what is intended, and if such a plan is adopted, a substantial reduction can no doubt be made in the total amount required
to meet the traveling expenses allowed representatives and others.
For our guidance in preparing future estimates and reports of the
expenses of members we ask that we be instructed what plan Grand
Lodge wishes us to follow.

Will you kindly refer my proposed amendment to the Committee
on Jurisprudence.

Committee on Pay of Members.
By JOHN w. DAVEY,
P. M. King Solomon's 260.

The following resolutions were referred by the Grand Master to
the Committee on Ritual:
OFFICERS COACH

I propose that Ordinance Section 53, Sub Section 3-A' be amended.
The present wording of Sub Section 3-A is as follows:
To appoint in each Lodge within his District an Officers' Coach,
who shall be a qualified Past Master of the Lodge, and who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Inspector. The Officers' Coach shall
assist in teaching the ritual to the Officers of his Lodge, and assist
in preparing them to qualify for advancement.
I propose that Ordinance Section 53, Sub Section 3-A be amended
to read:
To appoint in each Lodge within his District an Officers'
Coach, who shall be a qualified Past Master of the Lodge, and who
shall be acceptable to the Officers thereof. The Officers' Coach
shall serve at the pleasure of the Inspector and shall assist in
teaching the ritual to the Officers of his Lodge, and assist in preparing them to qualify for advancement.
It is my opinion that the Officers of a Lodge shall not be compelled
to accept an Officers' Coach who does not meet with their approval.
As the ordinance now stands they have no choice in the matter, and
can be compelled to accept an Officers' Coach who is not satisfactory
to them.

Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH F. HOGAN,

Master Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528.
STEREOPTICON EQUIPMENT

Whereas, The Most Worshipful Grand Master of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California has issued an order to all
Masonic Lodges under his jurisdiction prohibiting the use of stereopticon equipment in connection with the Lodge degree work; and
Whereas After due and proper consideration the members of
Oceanside Lodge No. 381 Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
California have concluded that the use of said equipment is of value
not only to those who are now members of the Fraternity but also of
great and distinctive value to those who are receiving their first steps
in Masonry; now therefore
Be It Resolved, That the Worshipful Grand Master be and is
hereby respectfully requested to reconsider his order prohibiting the
use of stereopticon equipment and that said order be recinded.
I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was adopted by
Oceanside Lodge No. 381 at its stated meeting held September 13th,
1948.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM R. CREGAR, P. M..
Secretary.

50

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Total Disbursements:
Grand Lodge:
To Grand Secretary for Revolving
Fund .........................................•..
Appropriations paid direct by
Grand Treasurer ........................

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

Masonic Homes:
Transfers to Operating Funds........
For Trust & Special Funds..............
Construction ....................................

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Fiscal Year Cash Transactions

20,159.90

91,485.00
1,142,375.93
17,987.20
1,251,848.13
$2,344,260.92

315,050.00
36,896.49
358,319.01
710,265.50

Sales of Securities:
·Grand Lodge ..................................
Endowment Fund ..........................
Masonic Homes, General & Trust
Funds ..............................................

462,070.84
97,494.11
310,168.38

296,134.80
78,822.07
374,956.87

Masonic Homes:
$25.00 Contributions ......................
Misc. Revenue and Refunds............
Special Purposes & Trust Funds....

101,399.96

869,733.33
Purchase of Securities:
Grand Lodge ..................................
Endowment Fund ..........................
Masonic Homes General & Trust
Funds ..............................

$ 248,030.92

268,190.82
Endowment Fund:
Cash Contributions & Bequests......
Income from Securities..........·-·······

$ 121,279.50

222,679.46

For the Fiscal Year Ending July 31, 1948

Total Receipts:
Grand Lodge General Fund:
Received by Grand Secretary and
transmitted ..................................
Received by Grand Treasurer, In~
come from securities....................

51

90,431.88
835,498.07

, .,

186,930.57
1,112,860.52
$2,466,273.71

The foregoing omits balances at the beginning of this fiscal year
and balances as to the end of 'the *fiscal year. This and other detail of
operations will be found in the Auditor's reports. The foregoing receipts
and disbursements exhibit is intended to emphasize that considerable
sums are involved in the year's transactions, and to attract attention.
Financial affairs should have the consideration of Grand Lodge members. They should not repose solely with officials. Masters and Wardens,
particularly, should inform themselves and those members of Grand
Lodge sufficiently qualified should afford Grand Lodge and its officers
the benefit of constructive suggestion. The apparent abundance of assets
should command ample safeguards against irregularity and mismanagement. No conscientious individual in responsible position would object
to any essential protective measures. Care i?hould be exercised to pre~
vent extravagant and non-essential commitments and expenditures. Also,
while "money is easy," no·reasonable levy or activity which would be
productive of additional accumulation should be disregarded.
Manifestly, we have currently a depreciated dollar. Do not be misled
by measure in dollars. In an interesting dissertation on "The State of the
• For complete statement see consolidated ash Statement ana.end.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Nation" in Nation's Business for August 1948, Felix Morley comments
that:
"It is an interesting experience to glance again at one of those
standard arithmetic books which young America studied at school
* * *. Some of the material set forth in those venerabl~ texts is
still reliable. But other sections seem to have no relation whatsoever to life today.
"Measures of weight, of capacity and of distance are as valid
now as they were forty years ago. The pound avoirdupois is still
16 ounces; the gallon continues to contain four quarts; the yard
totals the same 36 inches that it used to have."
and points out that these facts may be verified.
"But in another field of measurement * * * the old arithmetics
seem hopelessly out of date * * * ,
"There one may read that in the United States: 'The unit of
value is the dollar. Its standard weight in gold 25.8 grains'."
This is only one of the factors contributing to depreciation of the dollar.
We shall not delve into the intricate causes or whether it has been due
to impractical theorists and opportunist politicians that the dollar is not
now what it used to be. I am merely interested in emphasizing the fact
and leave it to you, if interested, to explore the subject. Currently, the
United States dollar is referred to as the "sixty cent dollar." Of course,
that is an inaccuracy because its value may be more or probably less
depending on what you are attempting to buy. One may be inclined to
complacency in the case of investments which may be held to maturity
if essential. but to the expert as dollar income from funds is to be
used for operation during the period of depreciation of the dollar the
principal is, in effect, depreciated.
In my annual report for the fiscal year immediately preceding, I
referred to the necessity of adjustment of maturities, commenting that .
our maturities 72-67 were somewhat heavy. and that a switch would
be made to shorter maturities if it could be satisfactorily accomplished.
I also referred to the offer of United States Treasuries, Series "A."
1965, 2Yi%. non-transferable. Purchases of the afore-mentioned Series
"A" 1965 were made as follows:
For the Endowment Fund...·----··-·-·----···--·······-····· $160,000.00
For Masonic Homes (Scholarship Fund) --····-···
5,000.00
A special offer to purchase not in excess of $1,000,000 face value,
of United States Savings Bonds, Series "G", limited to specified investors, such as insurance companies and trusts, enabled us to make
a desirable adjustment with respect to maturities. Consequently, between the 1st and the 15th of July we made sales and purchases as
follows:

53

ENDOWMENT FUND

Sold
U.S. Treasury 2Yi's 67-72, $270,000.00
(face value) plus premium................
U.S. Treasury 2!1's 67-72, $535,000.00
( face value) plus premium ..............

...

Purchased
U. S. Savings Bonds, Series "G", dated
7-1-18, maturing 7-1-60, face value
Proceeds above........................................
Cash ·····-··-·-···-································-······-·

$270,632.81
536,253.91

$806,886.72

$980,000.00
$806,886.72
173,113.28

980,000.00

GRAND LODGE GENERAL FUND

Sold
U. S. Treasury 2Yi's, 3/15/70-65, $50,000.00 face for $50,349.38
U. S. Treasury 2Yi's, 12/15/72-67, $40,000.00 face for $40,082.50
Purchased
U. S. Savings Bonds, Series "G" (same date & maturity) $90,000.00
WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT FUND

Sold

U. S. Treasury 2Yi's, 3/15/70-65, $13,000.00 face for $13,093.44
Purchased
U . S. Savings Bonds Series "G" (same date & maturity) $10,000.00
These transactions not only reduced 72-67 maturities which were
referred to in the preceding year's report as "somewhat heavy," but
increased the shorter maturities, resulting in a more satisfactory position
for investment purposes.
To provide funds for construction *purposes at Decoto, February
27, 1948, the following sales were made :
• See schedule annned.

HOMES GENERAL FUND

Sales
U. S. Treasury 2~'s, 6/15/69-62, $177,000.00 face for $176,944.69
U.S. Treasury 2Yi's, 12/15/72-67, $139,000.00 face for $139,399.06
PATTON FUND

U. S. Treasury 2X's, 6/15/62-59, $27,500.00 face for $27,491.11
I will be noted that these securities having been purchased at par
there was a slight profit. Pursuant to authorization there have been
other sales of securities for construction, consisting mainly of odd lots
and, in some instances, of uncertain market ability. The policy relative
to odd lots is not necessarily based upon securities of questionable

F

1954

G

F

1955

G

F

1956
F

1957

G

F

G

1958
F

1959
G

G

1960

F

G

Totals

F

G

A

C

D.

16:888 :::::::::::: :::::::: ~:.~::~~ i~:ggg :::::::::::: :::::: ::::::::

........ 135,000 170,000 ............ ...... ........
.................... ···········-··· ............ ...... ........
80,125 150,000 ............ ...... ........
2,375
300 ............ ...... ........
........ 10,000 165,000 ............ ...... ........
........ 34,000 ................ ............ ...... ........
........ 10,100
5,ooo
5,000 ...... ........
10 ,000 ............ ...... ........
........ ............
........ 52,100
43,600 ............ ...... ........

19 60
27/s

1

t:l

~

~

Totals..·-··········-···-············ 1,000 10,000 593,000 375,000 310,500 480,000 1,000 626,725 2,057,400 165,000 500 3,700 4,623,825

V1
V1

s;:

gg:~bg ~

494,000 I'"'
131,000 g
230,125 Cl
52,675 1i1
175,000 o
34,000 "ll
30,600 ~
10,000 t:
95,700 "ll

Total

Perine Fund.............................. ........
10,000 ............ ............ ........ ............
10,000 ............ ...... ........
20,000
Verbarg Fund.............................
.... ............
1,000 ··-··--···· ...... 300
1,000
Endowment Fund.................... 1,000 10,000 318,500 265,000 290,500 480,000 1,000 145,450 1,412,700 160,000 500 3,400 3,088,350
Luckenbach Fund.....................
.... 16,200
36,000 ............ ...... ........
52,200

~~\e~s\:~:fo!meiit:::::::::::: ::::::::

48 59-56 62-59 69-64
70-65 72-67
2~ 2y,
2y,
Grand Loqge.............................. ........
183,000 ............
6,000 ............
War Relief.................................. ........
31,000 100,000 ............
Masonic Homes General........ ........
............ ............
Monthly Grant Fund....·-········· ........
50,000 ·······-···
Building Fund.......................... ........
............ ............
Summer Camp Reserve.......... ........
............ ............
Scholarship Fund...................... ........
10,500 ............
Entertainment Fund................ ........
Flint Annuity·-····-··············-··· ........

UNITED STATES TREASURIES BY MATURITIES AND SAVINGS BONDS
July 31, 1948
Note: Maturity value shown in dollars.

Totals................·-·--···· 41,500 2,175 27,200 4,125 110,000 440,550 176,750 295,900 900 262,800 2,225 240,000 1,080,000 626,725 2,057,400

Grand Lodge............·-····-·· 10,000 ........
135,000 ........ .... ...... 40,000 ........ 30,000
90,000 135.000 170,000
Masonic Homes General... ..........
80,000
100 100,000 ...... 50,000
25 ............ -·····-······· 80,125 150,000
Monthly Grant Fund......... ..........
1,525 r·-··· .... 850
300 ........ ............ ···-··········· 2,375
300
Building Fund..................... ..........
10,000 10,000 ............ ........ .... ...... 55,000 ........ 100,000 ................ 10,000 165,009
Summer Camp Reserve... ..........
............ 34,000 ............ ........ .... ...... ............ ........
................ 34,000 ................
Scholarship Fund......·-······ ·······-·
100 5,000 10,000 ............ ···-··· .... ·-··· ............ ........ ............ ................ 10,100
5,000
Entertainment Fund......... ..........
.................................... ···-··· .... ...... 10,000 ........ ............ ................ ............
10,000
Flint Annuity..................... ..........
1,000 ........ ............ 42,000 10,100 42,600 ...... ............ ........ ............ ................ 52,100
43,600
Flint Trust Fund..·-············ ..........
8,000 ........ 10,000 125,675 13.500 18,300 ......
7,500 2,200 ............................ 141,375
43,800
Perine Fund..·-···················· ..........
-··-····· .................... ···-······· ............ ........ .... ...... ............ ........ 10,000 ···········-··· ............
10,000
Ver.b arg Fund..................... 1,000
........................................................................ ·······-··· ........ ............ ................ ............
1,000
Endowment Fund............... 30,500 2,175 17,200 4,025 85,000 138,875
325 100,000 50 100,000 ........ 100,000 980,000 145,450 1,412,700
Luckenbach Fund............. .......... ........ 1,000 ........ ............ ............ 16,200 35,000 ...... ............ ........ ............ ................ 16,200
36 000
Wadleigh Fund................... .......... ........ .......... ........ ............ ............ ............ ···-··· .... ...... ............ ........
10,000 ............
lo'.ooo

G

1953

Note: Maturity value shown in dollars.

Detail of Maturity Series F & G

UNITED STATES SAVINGS BONDS

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

value, but include some of satisfactory ratings. In such instances, where
the income is negligible, accounting convenience determines policy.
We have also found during the year that in the portfolio of some
funds there were excess "F" or "G" bonds, a situation arising from
donations and bequests. Satisfactory arrangements were made to redeem
and reinvest in the same security of different date.
Attention is again invited to the exceedingly large percentage of
Government bonds in portfolios. This may not be corrected, even if
desirable, without amendment of the regulations governing investments,
but as circumstances may develop the advisability of extending the
qualified investments, appropriate legislation should be considered.
As it is manifest that there is great responsibility on the officer
serving as Grand Treasurer as relates to custody and investment, I am
prompted to recommend that consideration be given to creation of the
office of Assistant Grand Treasurer, who shall be a member of the
Grand Lodge, having had successful investment experience, to be
appointed by the Grand Master pursuant to consultation with the Grand
Treasurer, with specified duties and responsibilities subject to the direction of the Grand Treasurer.
Also without criticism or dissatisfaction with individual performance,
particularly the Grand Secretary or Assistant Grand Secretary and
that office, I believe by reason of the nature and greater volume of disbursements made by the Grand Secretary, that the transactions should
be subject to a current monthly audit by the professional auditors. It is
manifestly unjust to impose upon an auditing committee of individuals
where there are so many and varied transactions as there now are in
the office of the Grand Secretary. I have informed the Grand Secretary
of my contemplated recommendation.
Respectfully submitted,

F. v. KEESLING
Grand Treasurer.
Referred to Committee on Segregation. For financial report, see
Special Appendix. All exhibits referred to are on file in the Grand
Lodge Office.

57

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my Seventh Annual
Report as your Grand Secretary.
The year just closed has been as busy and active a year as can be
imagined. The cooperation of the Lodge Secretaries has been outstanding as has been the work of the Grand Lodge office staff.
LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES

The granting of dispensations for six new lodges has brought to
light a membership situation which I recommend be referred to the proper
Committees for consideration. The Law provides various ways in which
membership may be acquired, and one of these is "By having been named
in a dispensation for a new lodge as one of the petitioners therefor"
(Section 162 - 3rd). A literal construction of this Section means that
when the Grand Master signs the dispensation for a new Lodge, the
members named in the petition cease membership in the former Lodge,
because we do not permit membership in more than one lodge in this
jurisdiction at a time.
There is always a period between the granting of the dispensation
and the institution of the lodge, and it is possible that this may be a
considerable length of time, due to the engagements of the Grand
Master. In this interval, the petitioning members are actually not members of any lodge, and have been deprived of all of their privileges, even
that of visitation, because their dues receipts are on file in the Grand
Lodge office with the petition.
It is possible to cure this situation by a "mechanical" device, rather
than resorting to legislation: namely, by having the Grand Master date
and sign the dispensation on the night of institution. If this practice is
to be followed, it should be made an established matter of policy. This
has not been the practice in years past
FEES FOR DEGREES

At the risk of repeating my statement in last year's report, attention
is again called to the fact that the $25.00 Masonic Homes Contribution
is provided for in the Law of Grand Lodge and has nothing whatever
to do with the amount of the Fees for Degrees as set forth in the Uniform Code of By-Laws. The Masonic Homes Contribution must be

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

collected in addition to any other requirements, and the same is true of
the George Washington Masonic Memorial Contribution of $1.00.

MEMBERSHIP

58

GENERAL OFFICES OF GRAND LODGE

Plans for the modernization of Grand Lodge Offices have been held
in abeyance pendfog a determination as to the building of a Memorial
Temple. Provision should be made. however, so that if it becomes
apparent during the year that a new Temple will not be built, steps may
be taken to proceed with the modernization of existing offices, for which
plans have already been prepared.
MEMBERSHIP

In presenting the membership figures for the year, I show comparative figures for 1947 and 1948 for ready reference, and have also given
the figures for 1918, 1928 and 1938, for the purpose of showing our
growth by decades.
It is interesting to note that while the number of lodges has increased
only 56% in the last thirty years, the membership is almost three times
as great.
In the past twenty years the number of lodges has increased only
6% whereas the membership gain has been in excess of 30%.
There is a striking parallel between what is happening today in
membership and what happened following the close of World War I.
That war ended in 1918 and applications for degrees continued to increase in 1919 and 1920 and the first decrease came in 1921--three years
after the close of the war. The total membership. however, continued to
grow until 1931.
World War II ended in 1945 and applications for the degrees continued to increase in 1946 and 1947, with the first decrease coming in
1948-again three years after the close of the war. If the parallel is
completely followed out, we may, however, expect a growth in the total
number of members for a considerable number of years.
I think it is worth directing attention to what happened in a fiveyear period-1931 to 1935, both inclusive-with respect to suspensions
for non-payment of dues. In that period, our lodges suspended for nonpayment of dues, 17,938 members. There is no necessity here to review
the existing conditions at that time, but if some of the "prophets of depression" are right in their prophecies, it is not too early to take the
necessary steps to prevent the recurrence of any such needless loss. The
time to prevent arrearages which lead to suspensions is while they are
still minor delinquencies.

59

1948
1947
1928
1938
1918
6
l
3
3
10
New Lodges formed..- ·--··-·-·····-·······
3,358 13,930 10,871
6.658
Initiated -------------------------·---------------------·-·-- 4.890
3,322 13,968 11.211
6,655
Passed ----------------···---------------·-----·---------------- 4,677
3,329 14.009 11.699
6,858
Raised ------·--·---------·-----------··-------------··--- 4,551
1,947
2.111
1.985
1.054
Afliliated --------------···--------------·-·-·------------· 930
12
6
Gained by error..·-············-··-·-·········-····
455
262
557
245
643
Reinstated -·-------------·-----..
1,478
1.075
1.445
1.536
Withdrawn ------------·-··---------------------- 725
2,053
545
1.178
396
Suspended for non~payment of dues........ 609
25
12
21
19
39
Suspended or expelled for cause..........·-·8
11
Loss by Enor.·-·--·-···--···-···-··---·2,640
2,809
1,039
1.973
Died ...........................-..................._...................................... 810
Number of Members on July 31............- ..63,986 134,302 127,122 173.917 183.198
2,158
2,114
4.420
Dues remitted ·········-·········-························· 4,128
182
Loss ·····-······-·······----·-···············--···-·-·--- ·····-·
9,281
4,993
12.165
Gain ··--······---------·······-·-··············---····· 3,593
579
590
596
564
Number of Lodge&-_-- - · - · · - - · - 383 .

------------

VISITATIONS

In February I attended the Conference of Grand Secretaries of
which I have the honor to be Vice-President and the meeting of the
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association of which
I am a Director.
In company with the Grand Master (and at my own expense) on
the return from Washington, I visi"ted the Grand Lodges of Cuba,
Guatemala and the York Grand Lodge of Mexico. The knowledge thus
gained of Masonry in these countries has been of great value and
inspiration to me.
Last year the Grand Secretary and the Past Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of Idaho attended this Grand Lodge and in accordance
with our "home and home agreement" I attended that Grand Lodge with
the Grand Master during September.
NEW LODGES

The following new Lodges have been formed during the year:
Meudell Lodge U.D., located at Bakersfield. Dispensation granted
January 20, 1948. The Lodge was instituted on April 3. 1948, at Bakers.6.eld, Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Byron Willis Weekes,
Master: Frank Mose Wilkson, Senior Warden; Kenneth Robinson
Cresswell, Junior Warden and William Franklin Laird, Jr., Marvin
Hunter Almond, Dewey Albert Horton, Dewey Albert Horton, Jr.,
Thomas Clark Lathan, Ferdinand Franklin Newberg, Clifford Van
Sant, George Milton Hollingsworth, Admiral Dewey Sprayberry, MacDowell Gardner, Clyde Eugene Bloomfield, Glenn Newton Shackelford,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

John Leonard Compton, Durward Belmont Hope, Allen George Babcock, Lloyd Crofts Percival. Ralph Waldo Zook, Harold Lewis Baxter,
William Franklin Laird and George Edward Beall.
Crossroads Lodge U.D.• located at San Diego. Dispensation granted
January 31, 1948. The Lodge was instituted on May 29, 1948, at San
Diego, Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Edward Joseph Bernard
Coyne, Master; Joseph Petruso, Senior Warden; Earle Franklin Sheffield, Junior Warden; and Harry Ivan Meek, William Runel Lumley,
Orville Charles Rongey, William Elliott Dutcher, Herman Stange,
Stanley Garfield Bell, Wiley Walter Williams, Jose Sianson Calonsod,
Edward Francis Ray, Warren Lynn Barnes, Santiago Bumanglag,
James Robert Lane, James Keith Airy, Fred Francis Swyers. Robert
Shurit Wilkinson, Frank Chester Barton, Willard Jennings Brewer,
Bartolome Baclagan, Francis Stilwell Firkins, Ivan Thomas Hamblin,
Rhyner Revere Lamm and Richard Weldon Smith.
Saint Elmo Lodge U.D .• located at Oakland. Dispensation granted
March 29, 1948. The Lodge was instituted on May 18, 1948. at Oakland, Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: George Constant Ferenz,
Master: John Wright Haugh, Senior Warden: Edmond Oscar Burger,
Junior Warden: and Harry Ernest Berkhman, Carl Herbert Carlsen,
James William Close, Arthur Louis Ferenz, James Amasa George,
George Orrin Knudsen, Wallace John LaFrenz, John Roderick MacDonald .. William Robert Meyer, Edward Albert Nelson, Leon Valentine Palmer, Barto Brooks Price, Ralph David Putzar, Harry Carl Ruff,
Leonard Lew Wallace Stevens, Samuel James Bigelow, Alfred M. Bates
and Ward F. Beckwith.
William D. Stephens Lodge U.D., located at Los Angeles. Dispensation granted June 7, 1948. The Lodge was instituted on June 19, 1948,
at Los Angeles, Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master,
officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Curtis Clement Legerton,
Master: Stanton Ansalem Bruner, Senior Warden; Arthur Meade
Loomis, Junior Warden: and Donald Tisdale Babcock, Laurence Carter
Barnard, Ray Leonard Bush, James Bedford Finney, Virgil Franklin
· Frizzell, William Carl Froelich, Wybren Hiemstra, Vierling Kersey,
Robert William Kinmont, Alexander James Kisselburgh, John Whitfield
Low, Robert Montfort McCallum, Albert Hay Malotte, Steven Mocsny,
Earl Arthur Ray, Ralph Gardner Ritchie, Irving Earl Sage, Joseph
Abraham Spray, Cecil Glenn Sutherlin, William James Vaughan and
Jacob Marion Wright.
Bixby Knolls Lodge U.D., located at Long Beach. Dispensation
granted July 21, 1948. The Lodge was instituted on July 31, 1948, at

)

61

Long Beach, Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master,
pfilciating.
_
The charter membership is as follows: Perry Hilson Barrett, Master:
Donald Baine McKay, Senior Warden: Herbert Lee Chase, Junior
Warden; and Eric R. Eley. Elmer C. Sissons, Mason Charles Jurgensen,
George Pearson Martin, Herbert Edwin Bromley, Jesse Hubert Smith,
Robert Carl Scott, William Jordan Holmes, Troy Edgar Cloninger,
Casimer Chrostowski, Don Smith, Frank James Hill, Rowland Eley,
Meywell Verne Holmes, Robert Roger Castro, Harry Franklin Rasneor,
Henry Julius Behrens, Thomas Gerald Morris, Bryce Matlock Solomon,
Walter George Wilson, George William Hair and Noble John Dilday.
Ponderosa Lodge U .D., located at Fresno. Dispensation granted
August 1, 1948. The Lodge was instituted on August 5, 1948, at Fresno,
Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Joseph Francis Coyle, Master;
Roeliffe Floyd Eldridge, Senior Warden: Paul Clarendon McCorkle,
Junior Warden: and Edgar Theodore Ford, David _Caldwell Green,
Edward Jones Arnold, Adrian Taylor, Frank Perry Pearson, Arthur
Hayes Shipley, James Guy Huggins, Harry Frederick Miller, Joseph
Anderson Dailey, Arthur Albert Fox, Ralph Waldo Lingle, Paul Muller
Porter, Warren Clarence Tinkler, Van K. DeYoung, Raymond Franklin
Arthur, Donald James Dick, George Alexander Sanders, Owen Leslie
Craghead, Charles Joseph Carlstroem, Oren Homer Pearson, Jack
DeForrest Mack and John Herbert Nichols.
LIFE MEMBERSHIPS

The Grand Master approved resolutions providing for life memberships in the following Lodges:
Increasing fee: California Lodge No. 1, to $250.00: Western Star
Lodge No. 2, to $250.00; Washington Lodge No. 20, to $300.00;
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, to $300.00; Mariposa Lodge No. 24, to
$250.00: Howard Lodge No. 37, to $250.00: Mount Moriah Lodge
No. 44, to $300,000; Forbestown Lodge No. 50, to $250.00; Union Lodge
No. 58, to $250.00: Live Oak Lodge No. 61, to $250.00; Naval Lodge
No. 87, to $250.00; Clay Lodge No. 101, to $250.00; Oroville Lodge
No. 103, to $250.00: Arcata Lodge No. 106, to $250.00; Chico Lodge
No. 111, to $250.00; Fidelity Lodge No. 120, to $312.50; Visalia Lodge
No. 128, to $500.00; Pacific Lodge No. 136, to $250.00; Crockett Lodge
No. 139, to $400.00; Molino Lodge No. 150, to $400.00: Excelsior Lodge
No. 166, to $250.00: Antioch Lodge No. 175, to $250.00: Oakland
Lodge No. 188, to $250.00: Wilmington Lodge No. 198, to $250.00:
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206, to $250.00: Anaheim Lodge No. 207, to
$250.00; King David's Lodge No. 209, to $250.00; Oak Grove Lodge
No. 215, to $250.00: Doric Lodge No. 216, to $250.00; Downey Lodge
No. 220, to $250.00: Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, to $250.00: San Mateo
Lodge No. 226, to $375.00: Solano Lodge No. 229, to $250.00: Hope

62

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Lodge No. 231, to $250.00: Santa Ana Lodge No. 211, to $300.00:
Pomona Lodge No. 216, to $100.00: Alturas Lodge No. 218, to $275.00;
Reading Lodge No. 251, to $250.00; Lodi Lodge No. 256, to $250.00;
Pasadena Lodge No. 272, to $250.00; East Gate Lodge No. 290, to
$250.00: Los Gatos Lodge No. 292, to $300.00: Li"berty Lodge No. 299,
to $250.00; Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, to $250.00; Fullerton Lodge No.
339, to $250.00: Oxnard Lodge No. 311, to $250.00; Sequoia Lodge
No. 319, to $250.00: Mill Valley Lodge No. 356, to $312.50; San
Francisco Lodge No. 360, to $250.00; Charity Lodge No. 362, to
$250.00: Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, to $250.00; South Pasadena Lodge
No. 367, to $250.00; Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380, to $350.00:
El Centro Lodge No. 384, to $250.00; Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389,
to $300.00; Imperial Lodge No. 390~ to $300.00; West Lake Lodge
No. 392, to $250.00; Turlock Lodge No. 395, to $350.00; Fraternity
Lodge No. 399, to $250.00; Las Mesa Lodge No. 107, to $500.00;
Honolulu Lodge No. 109, to $300.00; Charter Rock Lodge No. 110,
to $250.00: Calexico Lodge No. 112, to $250.00: Arlington Lodge No.
111, to $250.00: Silver Trowell Lodge No. 115, to $300.00; Elysian
Lodge No. 118, to $250.00: Fairmount Lodge No. 135, to $250.00;
Schofield Lodge No.-113, to $250.00; Montebello Lodge No. 151, to
$250.00: Crocker Lodge No. 151, to $300.00; Golden West Lodge No.
155, to $250.00: Paul Revere Lodge No. 162, to $250.00; Culver City
Lodge No. 167, to $500.00; Yorba Linda Lodge No. 169, to $250.00;
America Lodge No. 175, to $250.00; Albert Pike. Lodge No. 181, to
$250.00; Vallejo Lodge No. 187, to $250.00; Patterson Lodge No. 188,
to $300.00; Woodstock Lodge No. 191, to $300.00; Acorn Lodge No.
191, to $250.00; Harbor Lodge No. 502, to $250.00; Cahuenga Lodge
No. 513, to $250.00; Euclid Lodge No. 519, to $300.00; Covenant Lodge
No. 527, to $250.00; Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, to $250.00; Loyalty
Lodge No. 529, to $100.00; Sun Garden Lodge No. 530, to $250.00;
Seal Rock Lodge No. 536, to $250.00: Henry Morse Stephens Lodge
No. 511, to $250.00; Signal Lodge No. 513, to $250.00; Glendale Lodge
No. 511, to $250.00: Jonathan Lodge No. 515, to $250.00: Fairfax Lodge
No. 556, to $600.00; Plymouth Lodge No. 560, to $250.00; East San
Diego Lodge No. 561, to $250.00; Pyramid Lodge No. 562, to $250.00;
South Park Lodge No. 563, to $300.00; Service Lodge No. 591, to
$250.00: Granada Lodge No. 608, to $300.00; Hemet Lodge No. 615,
to $250.00; Neptune Lodge No. 619, to $250.00; The Gardens Lodge
No. 621, to $250.00; Menorah Lodge No. 623, to $250.00; Normal
Heights Lodge No. 632, to $250.00; James A. Foshay Lodge No. 611,
to $300.00; Alta Loma Lodge No. 613, to $250.00; Modesto Lodge
No. 675, to $250.00.
Fixing fee: Oriental Lodge No. 111, at $250.00: Friendship Lodge
No. 210, to $250.00: Whittier Lodge No. 323, to $250.00: Hermosa
Lodge No. 557, at $100.00; Harding Lodge No. 581, at $500.00: Garden
Grove Lodge No. 586, at $100.00.

Resci_n ding fee: San Joaquin Lodge No. 19; Texas Lodge No. 16;
San Benito Lodge No. 211: Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219; Guadalupe Lo~ge No. 237: Elsinore Lodge No. 289: Porterville Lodge No. 303:
San Jacinto Lodge No. 338: San Fernando Lodge No. 313: Amity Lodge
No. 370: Jewel Lodge No. 371: Morgan Hill Lodge No.163: Alta Vista
Lodge No. 161; San Gabriel Lodge No. 516; Hermosa Lodge No. 557.

63

DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17; Mount Moriah Lodge N 41·
Sincerity Lodge No. 132: Harmony Lodge No. 161: Clear Lake ~~dg~
No. 183: Confidence Lodge No. 203; Eucalyptus Lodge No. 213;
Lompoc Lodge. No. 262: Hanford Lodge No. 279: Monrovia Lodge
No. 308; Burlingame Lodge No. 100; Fairmount Lodge No. 435;
Argonne Lo~ge No. 511; Smyrna Lodge No. 532; Valley Forge Lodge
No. 587: Gnzzly Lodge No. 601; Atwater Lodge No. 622; Florence
Lodge No. 619; Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691.
. ~o receive and act upon the application of a rejected candidate
within twelve months:
· Eagle Rock Lodge No. 122; Pittsburg Lodge No. 129; Ionic Lodge
No. 520 ( 5 applications ) •
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the armed
forces who lacks the qualification of residence:
Elk Grove Lodge No. 173; Reedley Lodge No. 304; Fullerton Lodge
~~'. ~~~. ( 2 applications); Catalina Island Lodge No. 521; Carmel Lodge
Special permission for the conferring of a Third Degree:
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38; Clovis Lodge No.117.
. To open_ Lodg~ elsewhere than in regular meeting places
La ~arfaite Uruon Lodge No. 17 in the Scottish Rite Temple, San
Francisco; Georgetown Lodge No. 25 in the Fireman's Hall: George~own Lodge No. 25 in the 1.0.0.F. Hall; Gravel Range Lodge No. 59
~the Lodg~ Roo-?1 of Enterprise Lodge No. 70; Fresno Lodge No. 217
m the ~cotbsh Rite Temple, Fresno; Maricopa Lodge No. 131 in the
Masonic Temple, Taft; Bethlehem Lodge No. 153 in Masonic Temple
25 Van N~ss. Avenue, San Francisco; Blythe Lodge No. 473 in ~
separate building of Blythe High School; Pearl Harbor Lodge N 598
in the Scottish Rite Temple, Honolulu; Menlo Park Lodge No ~Sl in
th_e Masonic Temple, Palo Alto: Ponderosa Lodge U.D. in the Scottish
Rite Temple, Fresno.
Miscellaneous: Georgetown Lodge No. 25 to hold the September
Stated Meeting on the 15th instead of the date specified in the By-Laws.
DISPENSATIONS DENIED

To form. a n~w Lodge: At Lake Tahoe to be known as Lake Tahoe
Lodge: at Rio Linda to be known as Rio Linda Lodge.

64

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Benicia Lodge No. 5, to $75.00; Golden Gate Lodge
No. 30, to $100.00; Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, to $100.00; Forbestown
Lodge No. 50, to $50.00: Vesper Lodge No. 84, to $100.00; Visalia
Lodge No. 128, to $75.00; Curtis Lodge No. 140, to $50.00; Welcome
Lodge No. 255, to $75.00; Kilauea Lodge No. 330, to $125.00; Pinole
Lodge No. 353, to $75.00; le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371, to
$125.00; Lodge Maui No. 472, to $85.00; George Washington Lodge
No. 525, to $100.00; Loyalty Lodge No. 529, to $125.00; Signal Lodge
No. 543, to $100.00; Fairfax Lodge No. 556, to $100.00; Santa Maria
Lodge No. 580, to $80.00: Rialto Lodge No. 582, to $75.00; Angeles
Mesa Lodge No. 625, to $100.00: Veritas Lodge No. 640, to $100.00;
James A. Foshay Lodge No. 641, to $100.00; Liberal Arts Lodge No.
677, to $125.00; Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691, to $100.00.
Decreasing fees: Charity Lodge No. 362, to $50.00; Melrose Lodge
No. 602, to $75.00: Composite Lodge No. 639, to $125.00; Greenleaf
Lodge No. 670, to $75.00.
Increasing dues: Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, to $12.00; Plumas
Lodge No. 60, to $12.00; Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76, to $12.00;
Vesper Lodge No. 84, to $12.00; Visalia Lodge No. 128, to $15.00;
Welcome Lodge No. 255, to $12.00: Lompoc Lodge No. 262, to $12.00;
Selma Lodge No. 277, to $12.00; Redlands Lodge No. 300, to $10.00;
Porterville Lodge No. 303, to $12.00; Willits Lodge No. 365, to $12.00;
Coachella Lodge No. 476, to $12.00; Lebanon Lodge No. 495, to $15.00:
Ascot Lodge No. 538, to $12.00; Belvedere Lodge No. 539, to $12.00;
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559, to $10.00; Searchlight Lodge No. 567, to
$12.00: Garden Grove Lodge No. 586, to $12.00: Tujunga Lodge No.
592, to $12.00; John Marshall Lodge No. 636, to $12.00: Veritas Lodge
No. 640, to $15.00; Hawthorne Lodge No. 647, to $12.00: La Brea
Lodge No. 650, to $15.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Forbestown .Lodge No. 50, at $5.00: Rialto
.
Lodge No. 582, at $5.00; Palm Springs Lodge No. 693, at $15.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Visalia Lodge No. 128.
Changing date of stated meetings: Guadalupe Lodge No. 237;
Hanford Lodge No. 279; Madera Lodge No. 280; Fremont Lodge No.
497: Covenant Lodge No. 527; James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566; San
Carlos Lodge No. 690; Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691.
Changing time of ·stated meetings: Visalia Lodge No. 128; Buena
Park Lodge No. 357: Meridian Lodge No. 667.
Providing for holiday meetings: San Diego Lodge No. 35: Visalia
Lodge No. 128; Wilshire Lodge No. 445; Catalina Island Lodge No.
524: San Antonio Lodge No. 694.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Visalia Lodge No. 128;
Alturas Lodge No. 248; La Jolla Lodge No. 518: Meudell Lodge U.D.;

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

65

St. Elmo Lodge U.D.; Crossroads Lodge U.D.; William D. Stephens
Lodge U.D.; Bixby Knolls Lodge U.D.; Ponderosa Lodge U.D.
Miscellttneous: Hanford Lodge No. 279; West Gate Lodge No. 335.
RESOLUTIONS

Providing for change of meeting place: Fallbrook Lodge No. 317:
Golden State Lodge No. 358; Fremont Lodge No. 497; Covenant Lodge
No. 527: Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528; James A. Garfield Lodge No.
566; John Marshall Lodge No. 636: La Brea Lodge No. 650: San Carlos
Lodge No. 690.
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 408-Petition for restoration. A member of Tehama Lodge No. 3.
• Expelled August 4, 1924.
No. 487-Petition for restoration. A member of King David's Lodge
No. 209. Expelled January 1, 1926.
No. 538-Petition for restoration. A member of Standard Lodge No.
HO. Expelled May 6, 1927. _
No. 705-Petition for restoration. A member of Monterey Lodge No.
217. Expelled August 5, 1931.
No. 802-J?etition for restoration. A member of Northern Light Lodge
No. 190. Expelled September 9, 1933.
No. 946--Petition for restoration. A member of Oakland Lodge No.
188. Expelled December 7, 1938.
No. 1054-Petition for restoration. A member of Honolulu Lodge No.
409. Expelled January 8, 1945.
No. 1060-Petition for restoration. A member of Silver Cord Lodge No.
505. Expelled June 6, 1945.
No. 1080-(Retrial) A member of San Bernardino Lodge No. 348.
Suspended March 7, 1946. Retried and found not guilty
February 13, 1947.
No. 1087-( Retrial) A member of Golden Rule Lodge No. 479.
Acquitted October 7, 1946.
No. 1088-( Retrial) A member of Willow Glen Lodge No. 676. Expelled October 2, 1946.
No. 1101-( Retrial) A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Reprimand
November 6, 1946. (See also Trial Record No. 1129)
No. 1119-A member of Durant Lodge No. 268. Suspended October
3, 1947.
No. 1120-A member of Redwood City Lodge No. 168. Reprimand
August 7, 1947.
No. 1121-A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Expelled October 6,
1947. (See also Trial Record No. 1143).
No. 1122-A member of Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44. Expelled November 5, 1947.

67

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 1123-A member of Porterville Lodge No. 303. Expelled December 11, 1947.
No. 1124-A member of Fillmore Lodge No. 379. Expelled January 7,
1948.
No. 1125-A member of Palms Lodge No. 512. Suspended December 1,
1947.
No. 1126-A member of University Lodge No. 394. Expelled January
5, 1948.
No. 1127-A member of Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192. Suspended
January 8, 1948. ·
No. 1128-A member of a Lodge in Washington. Expelled January 7,
1948.
No. 1129-(See Trial Record No. 1101 ).
No. 1130-A member of King Solomon's Lodge No. 260. Suspended
February 5, 1948.
•
No. 1131-A member of Woodland Lodge No. 156. Expelled February
6, 1948.
No. 1132-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Expelled
April 1, 1948.
No. 1133-A member of Mount Olive Lodge No. 506. Expelled May 5,
1948.
No. 1134-A member of Three Pillars Lodge No. 613. Suspended May
14, 1948.
No. 1135-A member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. Expelled April 5,
1948.
No. 1136-A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Expelled April 5,
1948.
No. 1137- A member of Covenant Lodge No. 527. Reprimand April 7,
1948.
No. 1138-A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Expelled June 7,
1948.
No. 1139-A member .of Roseville Lodge No. 222. Reprimand March 1,
1948.
No. 1140-A member of San Jose Lodge No. 10. Acquitted April 5,
1948.
No. 1141-A member of a Lodge in New York. Expelled July 11, 1948.
No. 1142-A member of a Lodge in Michigan. Reprimand July 6, 1948.
No. 1143-(SeeTrial Record No. 1121 ).
No. 1144-A member of Chula Vista Lodge No. 626. Expelled July 6,
1948.
No. 1145-A member of Whittier Lodge No. 323. Expelled August 5,
1948.
No. 1146-A member of Palestine Lodge No. 351 . Expelled August 2,
1948.

No. 1147-A member of Lassen Lodge No. 149. Expelled September 7,
1948.
No. 1148-A member of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled September 7,
1948.
No. 1149-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Suspended
August 5, 1948.
No. 1150-A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Expelled September
13, 1948.
No. 1151-A member of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410. Acquitted September 7, 1948.
No. 1152-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Acquitted November 6, 1947.
No. 1153-A member of San Francisco Lodge No. 360. Expelled July
12, 1948.
No. 1154-A member of McKinley Lodge No. 347. Expelled September 2. 1948
No. 1155-A member of Union Lodge No. 58. Acquitted April 6. 1948.

66

FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS
NAME AND LODGE

• DATE OP RAISING

Abel, John Frederick, Tuscan Lodge No. 261...................... April 15, 1898
Adolphson, Gustave A., Crockett Lodge No. 139................ April 6, 1898
Alexander, William Gay, San Jose Lodge No. 10.............. May 16, 1898
Anderson, Eugene B., Alamo Lodge No. 122...................... May 7, 1898
Armstrong, George, Piedmont Lodge No. 521...................... September 15, 1897
Arzner, Louis A., Fidelity, Lodge No. 120............................ March 31, 1898
Bandy, James Edward, Woodland Lodge No. 156................ April 14, 1898
Barham, Edwin, Laurel Lod~e No. 245.................................... June 4, 1898
Barth, Otto Frank, Monrovia Lodge No. 308...................... May 27, 1896
Barthe, Jean Bertrand, Vallee de France Lodge No. 329.... June 18, 1897
Barton, Orren LeRoy, Eureka Lodge No. 16.......................... September24, 1898
Beede, Harry McNulty, Antioch Lodge No. 175.................. July 24, 1897
Bell, Alphonso Nelson, St. Helena Lodge No. 93.................. June 4, 1898
Benepe, Wesley L., LaFayette Lodge No. 126........................ April 7, 1898
Bertling, Gerhard Herman, Lodi Lodge No. 256.................. 1897
Bernard, Walter Allen, Woodland Lodge No. 156................ February 4, 1898
Bettfreund, Adolph Frederick, Galt Lodge No. 267........ April 17, 1898
Black, Joseph, Midway Lodge No. 426.................................... July 18, 1896
Blank, Henry, Alhambra Lodge No. 322.................................. May 6, 1898
Blanton, John Sherman, Occidental Lodge No. 22.............. 1895
Blunt, John Edward, Canoga Lodge No. 611...................... February 2, 1898
Book, Franklin Weaver, Concord Lodge No. 117.................. March 31, 1896
Borek, Leopold Julius, Crockett Lodge No. 139.................. June 10, 1897
Bragg, Charles Lourin, Sacramento Lodge No. 40.............. September 28, 1898
Brauckman, Cornelius, Redlands Lodge No. 300.......;........ September 17, 1897
Brewer, Herbert William, Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478February 11, 1893
Brown, Henry Lee, Southern California Lodge No. 278.... 0ctober 27, 1897
Brown, Richard Marion, Woodland Lodge No. 156............ March 31, 1898
Browne, Issac Procter, Santa Paula Lodge No. 291............ March 31, 1898
Bunker, Fredrick Edgecomb, Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236.... July 2, 1898
Burchard, George Henry, Center Lodge No. 465................ F ebruary 19, 1898
Burgner, Charles E., Bell Lodge No. 483................................ March 21, 1898
Campbell, Robert Edgar, Durant Lodge No. 268.................. April 1, 1898
Caples, John Wallace, Pacific Lodge No. 136...................... S_e ptember 27, 1898
Cate, George Redondo Lodge No. 328.................................... March 10, 1898
Chamberlain, William Lewis, Marin Lodge No. 191............ August 3, 1898

69

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

68

NAME AND LODGE
NAME AND LODGE

DATI! OP RAISING

Chambers Wm Kirtley Wilshire Lodge No. 445......·-··-··-May 5, 1898
Ch pman' Jess~ Holland East Gate Lodge No. 290._....... December 23, 1897
Cl~k Edgar Cornell .Aipha Lodge No. 43L...----January 18, 1898
Claus;enius Max Ex~elsior Lodge No. 166............................ January 26, 1898
Coleman, R~bert 'Bu~, Golden State Lodge No. 358........ November ~· 1~~797
Cone, Joseph B., Ro~kridge L<,>dge No. 468.---············--·--··--November 0,
Conway, Winn Patrick, Roseville Lodge No. 222......._......... March 23, 1898
Cottrell, Emile Lester, Golden R!-lle Lodge No. 479.----·-···March 2, 1897
Cunningham, Emmett T., Yosemite Lodge No. 99................ November 23, 1897
Curtaz, Oscar Hugo, S_tarr King Lodge No. 344·-··----··-···March 30, 189:
Davis Joseph E Covina Lodge No. 334·-················--········-November 6, 897
DeMe'rritt Jam~; Lorenzo, San Pasqual Lodge No. 452.... September 22, 1897
Derr, Joh;,_ Obediah, Morning Star Lodge No. 68._............. 0ctober 28, 18~7
Dieves, Charles Isaac, Alcatra~ Lodge No. 244..........·-··-·--August 25, 189
Dix Benjamin Russell. Baldwm Park Lodge No. 660........ January 28, 1898
Doi:{nelly, Wm. Lester, King David's Lodge No. 209.......... August 4, 1897
Dresser, Arthur Thomas, Pajaro Lodge No. 110.................. July 16, 1898
Dyer, Jay Ralston, Rosevfil;e Lod~e No. 222..............._ ...... February 26, 1898
Edwards, Wilber James, Friendship Lodge No. 210·-···-···February 17, 1898
Elwell. Frank David, Durant Lodge No. 268.............- ....... 1896
Escallier Leon Vallee de France Lodge No. 329....- ............ January 28, 1898
Ewer Edward 1 Norton Live Oak Lodge No. 61.................. March 19, 1891
Ferg~r, John Char~es, Las Pa~as Lodge No. 366................ January 1, 1898
Filmer, George, King Solomons Lodge No. 260.................. May 16, 1898
Fleming, Theodore M:, North East Lodge No. 266_.....- ... June 25, 1898
Fletcher, Joseph M., Ki?g Solomon's Lodge No. 260...-----November 22, 1897
Flint George Mooar, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.-................... November 27, 1897
Ford; Ernest Elwood, Wilshire Lodge No. 445.................- ..-0ctober 5, 1897
Frary, Burdett Serage, .Highland Park Lodge No. 382...... June 12, 1897
Freeling, Wm. Jacob, Live Oak Lodge No. 61...............-··-···_0ctober 16, 1896
Gaines Mark Edward Apollo Lodge No. 396.................... November 23, 1897
Gauthier, Eugene, Jr., Excelsior Lodge No. 166...---·-····-···March 23, 1898
Gilmaker, Joseph, Santa Ana. Lodge No. 241
June 26, 1896
Glover James Elvin Yorba Lmda Lodge No. 469......- ....... November 22, 1897
Gompe'rtz, Walter Aiexander, Durant Lodge No. 268_........ November 26, 1897
Gonder, Roy Eugene, Brawl~y Lodge No. 402..·-····-········-···September 30, 1898
Grace James Wilmer, Oroville Lodge No. 103...----······-···March 15, 1898 .
Graha'm, Eugene Chaffee, .OX!lard Lodge No. 341.............. December 2, 1897
Haight, Walter Charles, VISalia Lodge No. 128·-··---··---Auzyst 23, 1898
Haines, Wm. Barre,_purant Lodge No. 268·-····················-··-April 9, 1896
Hair Robert Hawauan Lodge No. 21·-··-··---··-············-·······July 28, 1897
Hale' Wm Crosby Suisun Lodge No. 55.---·-····-····-··-····-March 19, 1898
Hall' Jo~ Ewell Hanford Lodge No. 279·-··--··-·-··-··-July2, 1898
H-ond Mant~n Eastburn, Excelsior Lodge No.166-... March 16, 1898
Hapgood, .Allred Adams, Golden Rule Lodge No. 479........ April 28, 1897
Hardison Guy Lyman Santa Paula Lodge No. 291............ June 2, 1898
Harlan, joseph Ludwe'n, Buc:iceye Lodge No. 195.....---·-··-April 23, 1898
Harris Thomas Allen Carqumez Lodge No. 337·-···-····-···June 9, 1898
Hart, Edward L., ves'per Lodge No. 84·-···-··-----0ctober 27, 1897
Harth, Arthur P., Lindsay Lodge No. 416_....·-···-·············JanWUY 22, 1898
Harvey, Ira B., Vitruvius Lodge No. 145......·-··--···-··-···November 30, 1897
Hasty, John B., Anaheim Lodge No. 207 ....·-····-····--··-·-June 18, 1898
Hauck, Nathan, Eel River Lodge No. 147_..
Nov~ber6, 1897
Hebrank. Chas.: L~u~, Oak Grov~ Lodge No. 215......._.......April 22, 1898
Heiken, Hobart William, EnterprISe Lodge No. 70.............. February 26, 1898
Hennion, Willis E., Santa Ana Lodge No'. 241........................ January 18, 1898
Hillman, Samuel, Long Beach Lodge No. 327...................... November 16, 1896
Hillyer, Curtis, Occidental Lodge No. 22.............- ............... September 30, 1895
Hirsch, O. N., Laurel Lodge No. 24lL.·--··-December 21, 1895
Holleman, Seth Wilson, Pittsburg Lodge No. 429.................. February 28, 1898
Holmes, Joseph Earl, Crockett Lodge No. 139._..................... November 17, 1897

DATE OP RAISING

Howard, Walter Hugh, Paso Robles Lodge No. 286............ August 18, 1897
Hughes, William, Gold Hill Lodge No. 32.............................. April 30, 1898
Humbert, Etienne, Vallee de France Lodge No. 329............ November 30, 1897
Hunt, Allan Franklin, Burlingame Lodge No. 400............ February 9, 1898
Hyman, Wm. Morris., Woodland Lodge No. 156.................. March 29, 1898
Jackson, Stanley, Occidental Lodge No. 22........................ September 20, 1897
Johnstone, Albert Edward, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296...... April 29, 1898
Johnstone, Frederick Eugene, San Jose Lodge No. 10........ January 31, 1898
Jones, David E., Garvanza Lodge No. 492.............- ............... March 12, 1898
Jones, Richard L., Covina Lodge No. 334.......................- .. 1895
Jones, Thomas David, Solano Lodge No. 229........................ March 15, 1897
Kain, George Henry, Long Beach Lodge No. 327 .........._ ... July 1, 1898
Keeney, Collins Woodruff, Antioch Lodge No. 175.......... 0ctober 30, 1897
King, Arthur Dale, Piedmont Lodge No. 521........................ June 30, 1894
Kirkwood, Charles Melvin, Alta Lodge No. 333.................. February 2, 1898
Klein, Morris, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42.............................. March 28, 1898
Knowland, Joseph Russell, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215...... June 2, 1898
Lawler, Oscar, P.G.M., East Gate Lodge No. 290........... _... April22, 1898
Lehrfeld, Moses David, Burlingame Lodge No. 400............ July 2, 1898
Leithead, Wm. Wilson, Corona Lodge No. 324.................. January 28, 1897
Luchs, John Casper, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296................ August 12, 1898
McCary, Jasper D., Holtville Lodge No. 425........................ August 29, 1896
McMinn, Joseph A., Sotoyome Lodge No. 123...................... January 22, 1898
Marckres, Clair Cutting, Friendship Lodge No. 210............ 0ctober 21, 1897
Martin, William, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336............................ March 12, 1898
Mendelson, Isaac, Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571........ April 7, 1898
Moignard, Philip Richard, Carquinez Lodge No. 337.......... March 19, 1898
Morse, Fred Farnham, Fremont Lodge No. 497.................. December 12, 1897
Munday, Chalmer, Richmond Lodge No. 375·-····-····-··-·-November 6, 1897
Murray, Peter Allan, Caledonia Lodge No. 486.................. May 19, 1898
Musselman, Charles Wilford, Anchor Lodge No. 273.......... March 7, 1898
Myhrs, Alfred C., Corcoran Lodge No. 490............................ March 29, 1898
Nathan, Isadore Carroll, Union Lodge No. 58....·-······-··-···June 8, 1898
Nelson, Joseph A., Mendocino Lodge No. 179...................... July 2, 1898
Neudeck, Carl Nicholas, Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243............ September 18, 1897
Nichols, Harry Evans, Chico Lodge No. 111........................ July 30, 1897
North, John Edward, Eel River Lodge No. 141...................... February 16, 1898
Norton, Fredrick Lorenzo, Garvanza Lodge No. 492............ March 21, 1898
Ormond, William, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215...................... J:une 14, 1886
Park, Howard, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206................................ April 9, 1898
Parmley, Arthur Lynn, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389.......... June 14, 1898
Petersen, Peter Henry, Marin Lodge No. 191............._. ____ October 10, 1897
Peyser, Harry Michael, Crockett Lodge No. 139................ November 20, 1897
Pfieffer, George W., Pinole Lodge No. 353.......................... November 3, 1897
Pierce, Walter Stanley, Solano Lodge No. 229.................... May 7, 1896
Pierce, William, Suisun Lodge No. 55..........·-················-···0ctober 23, 1897
Plunkett, James Arthur, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225._____ May 24, 1898
Porter, D'Arcy Alan, Piedmont Lodge No. 521.................... June2, 1898
Powell, John Henry, Natoma Lodge No. 64.......................... February 10, 1898
Rasmussen, Frank Nissen, Ferndale Lodge No. 193.......... May 21, 1898
Reid, Samuel McNair, Athens Lodge No. 228........................ May 21, 1898
Reidt, John, Hermann Lodge No. 127.................................... November 22, 1897
Robbins, Ruel Drinkwater, Suisun Lodge No. 55................_Mareh 13, 1897 ·
Roberts, David Allan, Oroville Lodge No. 103.................... November 9, 1897
Roberts, Joshua Benjamin, Crockett Lodge No. 139.......... June 15, 1898
Robson, George Stokell, Charity Lodge No. 362................ April 27, 1898
Rodecker, Frank A., Redondo Lodge No. 328...................... May 26, 1897
Roehm, Elon R., Silver Cord Lodge No. 505......·-······-····--·November 22, 1897
Rolfs, Edward, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57.-............................. 0ctober5, 1898
Rosendale, Charles B., Salinas Lodge No. 204.....·--··-··-·-September 16, 1897

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Ross, Fred Darwin, Hanford Lodge No. 279.......................... 0ctober 8, 1898
Rule, George Andrew, Naval Lodge No. 87..............·-······-···September 29, 1898
Runde, Christoph Henry George, Durant Lodge No. 268.... April 16, 1898
Ryan, Alexander, Redwood City Lodge No. 168................ 0ctober 28, 1897
Savage, Frank L., Mosaic Lodge No. 218 .............................. September 11, 1897
Seamen, Joseph Wm., Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.................. May 23, 1898
Sentous, Louis, Jr., Vallee de France Lodge No. 329.......... January 21, 1898
Sering, John, Searchlight Lodge No. 567 .............................. April 28, 1898
Sheehan, Robert Lee, Caledonia Lodge No. 486 .................. November 4, 1897
Silva, Manuel, Confidence Lodge No. 203 .............................. 0ctober 8, 1898
Small, James G., Westwood Lodge No. 501.......................... November 20, 1897
Smith, Charles Howard, Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627 .... 0ctober 28, 1897
Smith, Edward Lamar, El Dorado Lodge No. 26 .................. March 24, 1898
Smith, Jacob Cox, San Pedro Lodge No. 332........................ August 8, 1893
Smith, W. Merle, Rising Light Lodge No. 397 ...................... December 20, 1897
Spargur, Charles Goodwin, Alturas Lodge No. 248.............. April 2, 1898
Stamper, Wm. Riley, Berkeley Lodge No. 363.................... June 17, 1898
Stanford, Stuart Alexis, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389.......... May 21, 1897
Stange, John Ernest Wm., Crockett Lodge No. 139............ March 30, 1898
Swan, Charles Donald, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206............ September 30, 1898
Taylor, Allen P., Los Gatos Lodge No. 292............................ January 5, 1894
Taylor, Henry, Excelsior Lodge No. 166 ................................ November 24, 1897
Teague, Dana Lyndon, Santa Paula Lodge No. 291.. .......... March 3, 1898
Terry, Wallace Irving, Excelsior Lodge No. 166................ February 2, 1898
Theisen, S. Joseph, Hermann Lodge No. 127........................ ;February 14, 1898
Thom, Catesby Charles, East Gate Lodge No. 290................ April 22, 1898
Thomas, Wm. Llewellyn, Ophir Lodge No. 33...................... November 13, 1897
Thurman, William B., Madera Lodge No. 280..........·-····-···February 12, 1898
Towle, James Sargent, South Gate Lodge No. 320................ 0ctober 5, 1897
Towler, Alfred F., Marin Lodge No. 191.............................. October 31, 1897
Trafton, Thomas Eugene, Pajaro Lodge No. 110........:......... August 28, 1896
Travis, John F., West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373.............. November 24, 1897
Uren, John Martin, Union Lodge No. 58 .................................. December 22, 1897
V~n Atta, Ivan Byron, University Lodge No. 394................ April 12, 1898
·
V~, Bruce Philander, Humboldt Lodge No. 79.................. March 26, 1898
W laus, Julius, Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236........................ January 8, 1898
Wahlberg, Arthur Gustav, Center Lodge No. 465 ................ May 9, 1898
Wallace, Glen Allen, Long Beach Lodge No. 327 ................ November6, 1897
Wallace, James Sanderson, Excelsior Lodge No. 166........ January 29, 1898
Walter, Frank Starr, Enterprise Lodge No. '10.................... May 7, 1898
Warden, Russell Harvey, Marin Lodge No. 191.................... May 25, 1898
W~e~ler, DeForest N., Friendship Lodge No. 210................ May 20, 1897
W~ll1ams, David C., Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192.............. 1889
Wilson, John West, Oroville Lodge No. 103........................ June 14, 1898
Winn, Curtis Bentley, Arlington Lodge No. 414.................. March 4, 1890
;ood, Alonzo Thomas, Oakdale Lodge No. 275 .... ~............... 0ctober 23, 1897
ood, Sherman, East Gate Lodge No. 290............................ March 29, 1898
Wyckoff, Louis Elkin, Arlington Lodge No. 414.................. March 4, 1898
Wyman, George Samuel, Baldwin Park Lodge No. 660...... July 6, 1898
Yenger, Wm. Henry, Elk Grove Lodge No. 173.................. December 11, 1897
Young, Clarence Eaton, Excelsior Lodge No. 166................ December 28, 1897
Young, Walton, South Gate Lodge No. 320............................ May 13, 1898
Respectfully submitted,

~~

Referred to Committee on Segregation. For financial report, see
Special Appendix.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

71

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
Free and Accepted Masons of California:
Section 50 of our Ordinances provides that the Grand Lecturer shall
render at each Annual Communication a full and detailed account of
his services during the year, and to set forth therein, a report of the
condition of the Lodges throughout the Jurisdiction.
Accordingly, I present herewith an accounting of the ritualistic acitvities of this Grand Lodge.
Our Constituent Lodges are still busy in the important work of bringing Masonry into the hearts and minds of men. While the number of
applicants has fallen off, there is still a firm desire on the part of many
to join with us in the quest for light and instruction.
During the Masonic year just closed, the Grand Lecturer in company
with other Grand Lodge Officers has attended the Constitution Ceremonies of the three Lodges chartered in 194 7 and also three of the six
Instituting Ceremonies of the new Lodges now working under dispensation. In addition, it has been my privilege to meet with our brethren at
many of the Masonic gatherings throughout the jurisdiction. Without
exception, the intense interest in things Masonic continues with undiminished fervor. It is an inspiration to go among the workers in Masonry, for it brings a renewed vigor and drive to those of us who are
charged with responsibility.
INSPECTORS-Under our present system, the most important
ritualistic officers in the jurisdiction are our Inspectors. It is their hard
work and capable guidance that makes for our high standards of operation. These men give long hours of service at great sacrifice to their
families and their businesses.
During the past year the heavy turnover in their ranks continues.
Three Inspectors have been appointed to take the place of those who
have been called by death to their great reward; twelve have replaced
those who have resigned for various reasons. The Inspectors who have
passed away will, I am sure, be properly eulogized by our Committee
on Necrology. Those who have found it necessary to retire will, I am
certain, be remembered for their valuable contribution to the Craft.
It is rather diffcult to make reference to a particular individual for
special mention when there are so many who deserve recognition.
I would be remiss, however, if I did not call attention to the outstanding service of Worshipful Brother Chester C. Morris who after
25 years of faithful service found it necessary to give up some of his
arduous duties. He served the 38th District in particular and was Dean
of the East Bay Inspectors for more years than he probably will admit.
His service was honorable and I found him to be a loyal friend. His

72

..

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

contribution to California Masonry will not be forgotten by the hundreds
of officers who served under him during his 25 years as Inspector.
The same can be said of Worshipful Brother Frank G. Falloon,
formerly of the 75th District, who occupied ~ similar P?sitio? as Dean
of the Los Angeles group. His loyal and faithful service will be well
remembered by his brethren in the southland.
Following custom, a report form was sent to the various Inspectors
calling for desirable information. To my great delight, 119 of our 123
Inspectors promptly returned their questionnaires. This is the finest
response that has ever been made and I express my thanks at this time
for their courtesy.
The information furnished has provided much valuable material
which will enable the Assistant Grand Lecturers to concentrate on weak
spots and otherwise correct certain conditions. The hig~-ligh~ of the
reports, however, was the fact that in the discharge of thei~ dut~es over
60 000 miles of official travel were covered. Another question disclosed
th~t only 17 of our 123 lnspectoral Districts in the Juris~iction are not
organized into Officers' Associations. Most o~ these are i~ remote sections where travel conditions render it impractical to organize. I am sure
this information will bring joy to the hearts of Past Grand Master John
Stewart Ross who breathed life into this splendid idea.
It might be of interest also to note that several of the Inspectors are
now successfully organizing Coaches' Association under the same setup as officer groups.
ASSISTANT GRAND LECTURERS-The past year has seen
several changes in our line-up of Assistant Grand Lecturers.
Past Grand Master Gilbert C. De Forest, who with the exception
of his four years on the progressive line in Grand Lodge, served as
Assistant Grand Lecturer since 1936. Owing to personal matters. he
found it necessary to retire from active work in our Ritual. Those of us.
who have worked with Gil found him to be a source of strength and he
will be sorely missed. Worshipful Brother Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Inspector of the 49th District, was appointed to take his place on March
16, 1948 and he has entered upon his duties in a creditable manner.
Our hardest blow was the sudden death of Sidney K. Lehman, who
was Assistant Grand Lecturer of Division D in Southern California
from the very beginning of the present system in 1933. No man was
more beloved than our dear friend Sid and his place will be hard to fill.
He had a gracious manner and in the long years of our friendship, I never
heard him utter a harsh work about any one. Our one consolation is that
he will live in our hearts for all time. On April 19, 1948 Worshipful
Brother Frank Harwell, Jr.. Inspector of District 84, was appointed as
his successor with the unanimous approval of his colleagues of southern
California.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

i

73

SCHOOLS OF INSTRUCTION-The mid-year Schools of Instruction for Inspectors were held in the various Divisions as follows:
Division Bon May 15-16, 1948 conducted by Assistant Grand Lecturer Walter von Konsky, also present: Assistant Grand Lecturer Mervyn E. Hanshaw and the Grand Lecturer.
Division C on June 5-6, 1948 conducted by Assistant Grand Lecturer
Obed W. Carr; also present: Assistant Grand Lecturer Walter von
Konsky and the Grand Lecturer.
Division D on May 7-8-9, 1948 conducted by Assistant Grand Lecturer Frank Harwell, Jr.. also present: Assistant Grand Lecturer Walter
von Konsky and the Grand Lecturer.
Due to the reorganization of Division A, it was impossible to hold a
meeting of the entire division. However, a number of Inspectors of this
division met with Division B at their meeting on May 15th and 16th.
The School of Instruction required to be held at this Grand Lodge
session was held on the Saturday and Sunday preceding this session and
was well attended.
RITUAL COMMITTEE-During the course of the year, the
Ritual Committee has considered several matters which have been placed
in their hands. At an appropriate time during the present session, a
separate report will be made.
RECOMMENDATIONSInspectors Expense: Due to additional duties in connection with
newly formed Lodges, increased activity in the lnspectaral group
and the expanded mid-year School Program, it is recommended that
the appropriation for Inspectors' Traveling Expense be increased
from $3,000.00 to $3,500.00.
2. Ritual Committee Expenses: The Ritual Committee as presently
formed does not have as much experience as in previous years and
it is desirable that the Assistant Grand Lecturers should be afforded
the opportunity of meeting together more frequently. It is, therefore,
recommended that the appropriation for this purpose be increased
from $2,500.00 to $3,000.00.
3. Amendment to Section 53 of Ordinances: Section 8 requires each
Inspector to report the working condition of each Lodge in his
District to the Grand Lecturer on or before the first day of May of
each year.
In discussing this section with the various Inspectors, they have
asked that additional time be provided to properly evaluate the conditions in their respective Districts, particularly in the case of current Lodge Officers. I see no objection in complying with their request and the following recommendation is made:
That Paragraph 8 of Section 53 be amended by striking out
the word "May" and substituting therefore the word "July".
1.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CONCLUSION-In concluding this report, I wish to express to the
brethren my thanks for their continued confidence and my deep appreciation for the many favors extended to me.
To my associates on the Ritual Committee, the Grand Secretary and
his able staff, and to our Most Worshipful Grand Master, I tender my
very warm affection and thanks for their consideration and helpful
assistance.
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR M. WARREN
Grand Lecturer
Adopted and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence and to
the Committee on Finance for consideration of special portions of the
report.

75

"THE MASONIC CITIZEN IN TO-DAY'S WORLD"
JunGE ALBERT C. WOLLENBERG, Grand Orator

t

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Past Grand Masters, Grand Lodge
Officers, Distinguished Guests and Members of Grand Lodge:
As Americans and as Master Masons, we gather here in one of the
most crucial hours of all time.
Specifically, we are met to transact the affairs of our Grand Lodge,
to discuss its problems and consider its program. But in a broader sense
we are here to wrestle with far greater and more serious issues.
Now, more than ever before, a harried world needs to see the light
by which Master Masons work, to live according to the square, and to
·
keep passions within due bounds.
In many lands statesmen are struggling to preserve a hard won
peace. Against terrifying odds they are seeking to tighten the links in
the weakened chain of human brotherhood, to guarantee human rights
for all mankind, and to make this world a safe place for everyone.
Perhaps we, of the Craft, should set the example. I believe we
should. ·
Ours is an ancient creed. Our philosophy and our teachings have
withstood the test of time and tempest. The teachings that are needed
for a world at peace are the precepts of Freemasonry; the ideals that
make for peace are the principles for which we have worked through
generations.
Today mankind is at the crossroads. Jealousies and intrigues threaten
to undo the sacrifices of countless heroes who gave their lives that man
might dwell in peace, in justice and in decency.
Our great democratic ideology is at stake. Foreign isms threaten us.
Only by democracy's preservation can we hope to attain the ideals for
which we stand.
Man has harnessed the forces of nature as never before. Unseen
power has been seized by the cunning of science and human ingenuity
to fashion force not for good but for evil-for destruction and devastation.
Either we must learn to live together or we must resign ourselves
to die together. The A tom bomb leaves no other choice.

76

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Freemasonry, we all agree, has paved the way for men to live
together in peace, in brotherhood, in truth and in dignity. That is why
I believe we ·Master Masons, in our Lodges or in our respective fields
of endeavor, face a challenge greater than in any time that has come
before.
The founding fathers of this nation, impelled by a true faith in
democracy and many of them steeped in the fundamentals of Masonic
learning gave this nation and through it the civilized world, a great
human document--one of the greatest ever put on paper. The Constitution of the United States guarantees every person living in free
America equality, justice and fair play.
Between the lines of that Constitution and the Bill of Rights therein
contained and interwoven in its concept and spirit, are the basic principles underlying our great fraternity.
If the time should come when that code becomes a law of nationsof all nations and of all peoples everywhere-men of every creed and
every race and every nation will be following the teachings of Freemasonry.
And that code is nothing more than a common desire to put into
practice the basic tenets of decent living that inspired our recent sacrifices on the battlefields. In that struggle we won the war. Now we are
engaged in a new fight to win the peace.
To win the peace we must banish selfishness and bigotry and
jealousy from the earth. We must make brotherhood a living theme.
We must infuse its spirit into the hearts of man. To do this we must
achieve unity here at home.
We know that through the years the enemies of Freemasonry have
been the foes of human liberty and justice. And we know from history
that the forces which have trod upon the apron and the trowel are the
forces that denied the dignity and the freedom of the common man.
Let us pause to look into events of recent years-within our own
fresh recollections-at the work of tyrants across the seas.
In Germany and in Italy, where Dictators sought to impose the
integrity and power of the State above the individual. Masonry was
one of the first to go. Masonic Grand Lodges and all subordinate Lodges
in Germany were dissolved. All of the most important Masonic dignitaries were sent to concentration camps. The Gestapo seized the membership lists of Lodges and looted their libraries, Temples and homes.
The same procedure was repeated by the Fuehrer when he took
over Czechoslavakia, Poland, Holland, Belgium and Norway. When
France fell, the Vichey government promptly caused the two Masonic
bodies of France to he dissolved, their property seized and sold at
public auction.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

77
In
Italy
Mus
1·
·
d'
I
d
. C
,.
so in~ isso ve Freemasonry a~ early as 1925
ommunism and its lead
ll
h
·
the familiar formulas of the e1·~ta:i o~e~ t e. wo~d are today following
hind the Iron Curtain is M
an
asc1st ictators. Nowhere heMaso.nry is opposed to tyran~=~:r;h~~e:~ f~!!ts hgreat tenets tolerated.
tyramcal despot can live and allow th
d t er 7ay appear and no
e s~e s 0 ~eedom to bloom
into fruition within the breast of
diciples are to be found everywhere ~:~·w:~~ ;.nem_y is worldwide; its
and, therefore, of course as good •t.
men ca must as Masons,
defend zealously against' this bree~~;z::~ bJ. cons.tantly on guard to
disunity.
issemmator of hate and
Unity, of course, must be our watchword
The tenets of Freemasonry t h·
equality, upholding human digni ' ea~ ~ng ro!herhood, justice and
the tyrannical philosophies of the! ~~tat u;an {1ghts, were inimical to
the Great Architect of the Universe a d o ~· w do hu~ themselves above

b

tion~c;~:s·J~~~o~=~ w~:~c~~~al~;e:~he:~:c~:s ~:e::~~=: ;~~::::~

;f
camps. Catholics and Protestants suffered r:::tto~~s and concentration
God or for bis teachings. Mein Kampf to k h . I ere was no place for
o t e p ace of Holy Sc · t
But there was irony in Hitler's
.
rip ure.
consciously and unknowin I h
. persecution of Free Masons. Un-a tribute that, despite i~ ~o:r~;d ~url~~aft ?ne of its finest tributes
our power for the principles we t~a~h~u inspire us to work with all
f .
From his own publishing house-from the sou
Kampf--came a hook entitled "F
rce o his own Mein
reemasonry-Its Wo Id v·
..
iew. 1n
t hat volume Hitler sought to put the stamp of 0 ffi . I dr.
cia isapproval on
Freemasonry.
To Herr Heydricb, second in command f h G
of writing the preface. After commandin t~ t e estapo, fel~ the task
must, and I quote-"Confirm by b·1
g d a~ ~very new Nazi member
0
o~or that he does not
belong to a Masonic Lodge"-the ~=~:
masonry, at least, that was the Nazi versionp~t this hr~n~ upon Freeand mark of degradation:
o an exconation, a stigma,
"Masonic Lodges are . . . associations f
h
together in a union employing symbol· ol men w o, closely hound
. .
ica usages represent
natura I spmtual movement the .d
f b
'.
a super.
.
•
I ea o
uman1ty
I
f
. . . a genera
association of mankind, without dist· t•
tions, social and political convictions. ,1,nc ion o races, peoples. relaFodr· tho3e principles Freemasonry was damned and Ma
. Lod
sonic
ges
were issolved.
What creed approaches closer t th
.
Christian ideals? What ob·ective in
e pmna~le o~ American, of
. tyhuman relationships could reach
closer to the highest aim; of
socie
as conceived by present-day
civilization?

°

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Today the nations of the world, through the United Nations, are
trying to put that same creed into practice everywhere. We in America
are lending our fullest moral and political support.
Everywhere men of fairness, of intelligence and of dignity are
striving to support our government and through it the United Nations.
From Washington has come, not so long ago, a momentous document, the report of the Committee on Human Rights. In a word it spells
democracy, it spells America.
From some quarters of the nation we hear rebellion against its
findings but you and I know that its tenets have been incorporated into
the platforms of our major parties. And rival candidates for the Presidency are spousing them.
What are those principles so sharply pointed up by the report of
the Committee?
Actually what, in essence, do they contain but the same Masonic
teachings of fair play, of equality, justice and brotherhood that you
and I hear again and again within the Lodge room.
And because they are so identical with our own Masonic teachings,
I believe that you and I have a responsibility to see that the Committee's principles become a vital part of our every-day living.
The Committee has recognized, as you and I know, that within our
land work un-American forces, preaching bigotry, spreading lies against
one group of good Americans or another.
Their purpose is to gain power by divide and conquer strategyby turning Christian against Jew, native against foreign born, negro
against white, worker against employer.
But you and I-and the rank and file of good Americans know, that
our democratic way of life depends upon unity and that to preserve
democracy we must preserve our national unity. And when unified
there is nothing on this earth America cannot accomplish.
We must be ever alert to the teachings of the rabble rousers and the
hatemongers in our midst. Whether they rant against the Jews or the
Catholics or the Protestants-whatever lies they spread-we must
recognize them for what they are-c;ommon traitors to America and to
the brotherhood for which we stand.
As the Late Wendell Wilkie, a champion in the struggle for human
liberty and equality, once said:
"Our way of living together in America is a strong but delicate
fabric. It is made up of many threads. It has been woven over many
centuries by the patience and sacrifice of countless liberty-loving
men and women. It serves as a cloak for the protection of the poor
and rich, of black and white, of Jew and Gentile, of foreign and
native born.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

79

"For God's sake let us not tear it asunder. For no man knows
or.ce it is destroyed, where or when man will find its protectiv~
warmth again."
And. then there are the words of that widely-known radio champion
of the rights of men-Kate Smith-who, though a woman, speaks as
might any good Master Mason. She says:
"I don't pretend to know all the things that will have to be done
for a lasting peace-but I do know something about people.
"It seems to me that faith in the decency of human beings-is
what we must have more of, if there is to be a future for all of us
in this world. We read in the papers every day about conferences
on the best way to keep the peace.
"Well, I'm not an expert on foreign affairs-and I don't pretend
to know all the complex things that will have to be done for a
lasting peace. But I am a human being-and I do know something
about people. I know that our statesmen-our armies of occupations,
our strategists-may all fail, if the peoples of all the world don't
learn to understand and tolerate each other.
"Race hatred-social prejudices-religious bigotry-they are thf
dise~ses th~t. e~t a.way the fibres of peace. Unless they are ex.
termmated it is mevitable that we will have another war.
"And where are they going to be exterminated? At a conference
ta?le? ~ot by a long shot. In your own city, your own church, your
children s school. perhaps in your own home. You and I must do
it~very father and mother in the world, every teacher, everyone
who can rightfully call himself a human being.
"Yes, it seems to me that the one thing the peoples of the world
have got to learn if we are ever to have a lasting peace, is-tolerance.
Of what use will it be if the lights go on again all over the worldif they don't go on in our hearts?"
The lights. What light is Kate Smith actually talking about?-It
is the light by which Master Masons work. The world needs more of it.
You and I. in my judgment, can see that the world gets it. At least, all
of us can set an example.
Not long ago I read a pledge for Americans-a few crisp and wellpointed lines written by a distinguished American jurist and statesman
-:-Judge Joseph A. Proskauer, retired member of the New York Bench.
I m going to read that pledge because its spirit and its purpose is one
that will strike responsiveness in the heart of every Master Mason:
"I will daily deal with every man in business, in social and in
political relations, only on the basis of his true individual worth.
"I will never try to indict a whole people by reason of the
delinquency of any member.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"I will spread no rumor and no scandal against any sect.
"In my daily conduct I will consecrate myself, hour by hour, to
the achievement of the highest ideal of the dignity of mankind,
human equality, fellowship and brotherhood."
There is much more that I could say but it's all locked within our
faithful breasts-it all sums up in the secrets of a Master Mason.learned in our travels along the rough and rugged road. And so, I am
going to close with the story of the little boy who wanted his father
to read him the comic paper-a story that touches closely what I've
tried to say.
. A father was busily engaged in his reading one evening and he
didn't want to be disturbed. Close by on the floor sat his little son. The
boy kept pleading, "Please, Daddy, please, read me the funnies."
The father begged for time. kept asking for just a few more minutes.
He wanted to finish what he was reading.
But the little boy was persistent. The father's patience was being
exhausted. On a table close to his chair he spied a newspaper, its pages
open to a large, complicated map of the world. The man grabbed it
and pulled a pair of scissors ·from the drawer. He called the boy to his
side and said:
"Look, son, I'm going to cut up this map of the world. You put it
together again-the right way, of course-every bit of it-and when
you've done that, bring it to me. I'll read you the funnies then."
The boy was off and his father settled down to what he was ~ure
would be a long and comfortable period of reading "With9ut interruption.
, But he was mistaken. Soon the boy was back. He had put the map
of the world together again-perfectly-piece by piece. · . ·.
"Son," said the startled father, "you've done it-a hundred times
faster than I had expected. You've earned your right to. have me read
you the funny papers. But-first, tell me,-how' d you ever do it so
quickly?"
The boy looked up wistfully and smiled. "This way, Dad," he
began. "You didn't notice, but before you started cutting, I saw the
other side of that page and on the other side of the map of the world was
the simple-very simple:- figure of a man. So I just put the man together and when I'd done that, the world was together again, too."
My brethren, let all of us, you and I. dedicate ourselves anew to
preaching the creed of Masonry-a creed that will put men together
again-and I am certain, as you must be, that once we've done that,
the world will be together again too.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION

80

* * *
A motion by Past Grand Master Samuel E. Burke prevailed that
the Grand Orator deliver a copy of the oration to the Grand Secretary for printing and distribution to the Lodges.

81

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The committee on Segregation to which has been referred the Message of the Most Worshipful Grand Master begs leave to render the
following report: We recommend that the following portion of the
Message be referred to the Committees detailed below:
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
All the decisions except Number 4.
Recommendations A & F.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes :
Recommendation G.
To the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence Jointly:
Decision Number "i.
To the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Finance
Jointly:
Recommendations B. C , D and E and that portion of the Message
relating to Past Grand Master portriats.
To the Committee on Charters:
The matter of Dispensations issued to open and form new Lodges.
To the Committee of Necrology:
Deaths of members which have occurred during the current Masonic
year.
The report of the Grand Secretary has also been referred to this
committee.
We recommend that it be referred as follows:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. The matter of
transferring memberships in the formation of new Lodge.
To the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Finance
Jointly:
The matter of refurbishing the General Offices of the Grand Lodge.
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
The matter of Life Membership as enacted or revised by constituent Lodges.
.
The matter of special Dispensations issued for various purposes.
To the Committee on By-Laws:
All amendments to By-Laws by constituent Lodges.
To the Committee on Grievances:
All Trial Records.
The report of the Grand Treasurer has also been referred to this
committee and we recommend that it be referred as follows:

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

83

To the committee on Finance:
The entire report with the exception of the recommendation of
appointment of an assistant Grand Treasurer and the Monthly audit
by professional Auditors which we recommend be referred to the committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Respectively submitted,
Roy H. Lesthall
Gusto£ A. B. Quick
James B. Lawson

Report of Committee
on
Twenty-ninth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week

Adopted.

To the M. W. Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California.

~

The report of this Committee last year began by quoting the opinion
of the Master of one of our Lodges with respect to the extraordinary
success of the observance of Public Schools Week in his community.
That opinion was quoted because it was typical of what a great many
other Masters said in their reports. Again this year, and for the same
reason, we introduce our review of the reports from the Lodges by
quoting the Master of a Lodge which for many years has consistently
reported very successful observances in the community in which it is
located. Among other things, he said:
"I was told by school authorities that this was the best and
largest observance ever held:-both from the standpoint of attendance and public interest. There was also more active participation by the older students."
Such was the success of last year's observance in that community.
as elsewhere, that comment such as this seems to us especially noteworthy. And as has been intimated, it is only typical of scores contained in reports from other Lodges. We quote only one, and that,
in part. for another reason. In the course of an extremely interesting
report, the Master of that Lodge said :
"This year's observance was one of ·the finest-due to the
quality of the programs presented and to the enthusiastic interest
the public has in the current school program of building projects,
and in the financial support which will be required."
It is undoubtedly the extraordinary public interest in the problems
confronting the schools which accounts, in great part, at least, for this,
and last year's success; and because these problems are being persistently brought to the attention of the people in every community.
While it would appear that there has been some amelioration, the
problem of teacher shortage has not yet been solved: and with the
increase in the school population in California, it has become increas-

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ingly difficult to provide a sufficiently large number of class rooms.
Double, and in some instances, triple, school sessions are far more
common than they should be. In one city, the situation was forcefully
brought to the attention of the people in a splendid editorial urging all
citizens, as well as parents of school children, to avail themselves of the
opportunity presented by the observance of Public Schools Week, to
get first hand information of the problems confronting the schools. It
seems to us that the following excerpts from that editorial are well
worth quoting:
"During the interval between 1940 and 1946, California's population increased 38 per cent in comparison with a National gain of
6 per cent.* * * Our schools are crowded to the point where every
public-spirited citizen is ashamed. Education is being handed out
on an assembly line basis with the hours available for each student
sharply reduced, and with double and triple sessions in some of
the schools. There are now 11 7 double, and 7 triple sessions; and
more ·expected next Fall."
"A double session means that a child's time in school is materially reduced so that his seat can be occupied by another pupil.
By double sessions children lose approximately two and one-half
school months per year on the upper level, and one and one-half
months on the lower level."

. "If you are interested in making this a great and popular city,
if you want the citizens who will take your places to have the best
education possible. then set aside a couple of hours of your time
this week to visit the schools, talk with the teachers and get to the
heart of their problems, and discuss your findings with your friends:
and then maybe we can all pull together to remedy a situation that
should never have been permitted to exist."
This was but .one of an unusually large number of editorials constituting an extremely important part of the publicity given our latest
observance. Along the same lines as the one just quoted was another
reminding the people of that community that local district taxes and
bond issues would not finance the class room need; that the State would
have to assist out of the $20,000,000 fund appropriated by the Legislature for "impoverished" districts; that the class room shortage is
matched by teacher shortage; that more than 11,000 emergency teachers,
twenty-five per cent of all teachers in the State, have had to be recruited
to keep the schools open; that the birthrate is booming; that a million
or more babies have been born in California since 1940; and that last
year's total is well over 250,000--and concluding with these queries"Are make-shift class rooms adequate? Are the needs increasing? Are

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

85

,.
finances sufficient? Can the local property owner pay the whole bill?
Incidentally, in the issue of the newspaper carrying that editorial
there was a clever and effective publicity stunt. Interspersed throughout
the pages were "spot announcements" similar to those used in broadcasting, referring to Public Schools Week, and urging the public to visit
the schools.
Many of the editorials were devoted to the observance itself as a
factor in community life, pointing out its value, and crediting our Fraternity with its inauguration. One of these might well serve as a Bulletin
of Suggestions for those charged with the responsibility of making the
arrangements for an observance. After referring to the various proclamations which had been issued, the editorial continued: ·
"Public Schools Week is not proclaimed as a week of festivities and exercises. though many schools interpret is as such, and
in arranging their programs. they put on special events as a form of
entertaining the parents and visitors."
"Each school should hold open house and each parent should
be encouraged to visit the schools during this time, not to be entertained by a special program, but to see and learn the regular
routine of every day school life."
"Every parent should be given the opportunity to visit and
observe just what goes on in the school room, get a firsthand view
as to how and to what end, and in what direction, the mind of their
child is being guided, get a better understanding of what is expected of the children, and of most importance, become acquainted
with those in charge of the teaching of their children."
"Every parent should make it a point to visit the schools. enter
the class rooms, get acquainted with the teachers. watch closely
what is being done, and resolve that our children shall never lack
the mutual understanding between home and schools which is
essential to good education. * * * Public Schools Week should be
a week of parent education, a week spent in bringing the parents
and the teachers closer together; and not a week of festivities that
leaves a wrong impression in the minds of the parents."
"Many parents, today. feel that there is too much play in our
schools; this no doubt is caused by the fact that in .most cases when
they. the parents. are invited to the schools, a special program is
put on, they see the more talented children perform, and get the
impression that things of this kind are of the n;iost importance in
the routine of class room study. * * * Public Schools Week should
be a week of serious effort to better acquaint the parents more
thoroughly with what goes on in the class room and bring the

86

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

parents and the teachers closer together and create a better understanding between the two."
There were this year an unusually large number of plays and
pageants. It was no doubt due to the fact that this is the first of California's three "Centennial Years"; and because of the hope expressed by
the Superintendent of Public Instruction, in a bulletin set to the school
people, that teachers and principals would make available to their pupils
material that would enable them to express an appreciation of various
aspects of California history. The motif of practically all of them was
the celebration of some event in the history of California from the discovery of gold January 24, 1848 to the admission of California into the
Union in 1850.
The favorite theme seems to have been the discovery of gold. From
a city in which the observance is always an unqualified success there
came a report of what was said to have been the first reproduction of
Stephen Longstreet's play "One Hundred Years Ago," with the original
script and music of its presentation at the Coloma Centennial on January
24, 1948.
This was referred to by the Chairman of the Committee as "probably
the highlight of the observance, or at least the most spectacular single
event," and with the comment that "it was excellently presented and
enthusiastically received and further demonstrated the abilities of the
students and faculty of our High School."
Now while this and the other pageants and plays, of course, furnished entertainment, they served another purpose. They were, (to
quote Superintendent Simpson), "Stimulating programs that emphasized
the educational value of the Centennial Celebration"; and they must
have aroused, not only in the participants, but as well, also in the audiences, a desire to learn more about California's dramatic history and
magnificent traditions; as they portrayed the romance, drama and
achievements of the century just behind us. They do not, therefore,
fall into the category referred to as "entertainment" in the editorial to
which attention has been called.
Even where.there was no play or pageant, there were many observances, as there have been in the past, with a "theme" or "motif"; and
among these themes this year were "Centennial Year," "Influence of
Covered Wagon Days," "Gold Rush Cavalcade," "Gold Discovery,"
and "California the Golden." Many of the programs built around such
themes included music, tableaux and dancing of pioneer days, with the
participants in the garb of that time. In some of the observances a program of this sort was presented on the last night of the week by the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

87

pupils of schools which had held open house during the week with visits
by the parents and the public.
The Freedom Train was also a motif of several observances, either
in that form alone, or in combination with other words and phrases such
as "The Public School-Keep It Our Foremost Freedom Train," and
"Freedom Train's First Team-The Teacher, Your Child and You."
Incidentally, among the school exhibits in one city there were facsimiles, made by the students, of many of the documents displayed in
the Freedom Train.
Materially contributing to this year's unprecedented success was
the hearty support received from those organizations which so enthusiastically cooperate with us each year: American Legion, (Department of California), American Legion Auxiliary, American Association
of University Women (California State Division). California C. I. 0.
Council, California Congress of Parents and Teachers, California Farm
Bureau Federation, California Federation of Women's Clubs, California
League of Women Voters, California State Chamber of Commerce,
California Teachers Association, California Junior Chamber of Commerce, California State Federation of Labor, California Teachers Association, California School Trustees Association, and Association of California County School Superintendents.
From the newspaper clippings, it appears that with the proclamation
of the Grand Master and that issued by Governor Warren, wide publicity was also given the announcements and statements issued by the
cooperating organizations: and of course, the local papers everywhere
carried in full the proclamation issued by the Mayor of the City.
In connection with the reference to proclamations, mention should
here be made of the fact that this year, for the first time in the history
of Public Schools Week in Hawaii, there was a proclamation issued by
the Governor of the Territory. Mention was made of this by the newspapers there: and incidentally, included with the press clippings covering (to quote the report) "one of the most successful years and one
that we can all be well proud of," was an editorial endorsing the observance, and with complimentary reference to our Island brethren. We
quote the following excerpts:
"In emphasizing Public Schools Week, each year the Masons
of Hawaii give support to one of our most cherished institutionsthe Public Schools."
"On the strength of the Public Schools of the nation largely
rests the character of future citizenship."
"Public Schools promote the American tradition in democratic
education and useful citizenship."

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"The Masons of Hawaii, by emphasizing the services per~
formed by the Public Schools are themselves rendering a service."
The Heads of the Co-ordinate bodies of Masonry were especially
helpful this year. The· Grand Commander of Knights Templar, the
Grand High Priest of the Grand Chapter R. A. M. and the Grand
Master of the Grand Council R. & S. M. joined in a fine announcement
to the subordinate Commanderies, Councils and Chapters, earnestly urging their cooperation in the observance, and pointing out ways in which
this could be done. And the Grand Commander, John Stewart Ross,
and the Grand High Priest Glenn W. Gurtner, in their reports to their
Grand Bodies of their Administrations, made special reference to the
observance of Public Schools Week.
The reference to the Observance made by the Grand Commander
in his report to the Grand Commandery (and perhaps because he is
one of our Past Grand Masters, and has always been a strong sup~
porter of the movement from the time of its inception, when he was the
Inspector of" what was then the 69th, and is now the 108th, Masonic
District), was especially comprehensive. He reviewed the history of
the Observance, defined its purpose, and expressed the hope that the
representatives present would endeavor to make it convenient to join
with the Lodges in the observance of the week in their community:and not merely because they would deem it their duty, but with the
expectation of finding the experience an enjoyable, as well as a profitable
one.

It seems to us that the following excerpt from the Grand Commander's report might well be called to the attention of every Mason:
"The value of this Observan_ce cannot be judged from experi~
ences in any one community, in any one year, and under any one
leadership. Conditions may be such in a community that its
necessity may not be apparent; but if permitted to lapse, its value
may become apparent only when it is too late: because destructive
forces work the more effectively when other forces are asleep. In
this, as in all other things, leadershiP. is all~important."
Because of what has been said with respect to the cooperation received from the Masonic bodies to which reference has been made, it
should also be said that an announcement similar to that issued by the
Heads of the York Rite Bodies was sent by Past Grand Master Hervey
as Sovereign_ Qrand Inspector General in California to the Scottish
Rite Bodies; and that the Order of Eastern Star and the Shrine were
again ·this year, as they always are, exceedingly cooperative. Incidentally, from the Order of Eastern Star came an inquiry as to the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

89

date of next year's Observance. It was explained that the information
was desired so that the Grand Matron would not include in her itinerary
any date that might interfere with the proper observance of Public
Schools Week.
Public Schools Week luncheons in Shrine Clubs seem to have
become the rule rather than the exception, as ·they once were. The
programs are varied, but in almost every instance they include an address on some current school problem. The topic at one of the luncheons
this year was "Things You Didn't Know About Your School System."
The guests usually include members of the Board of Education, the
Superintendent of Schools, and frequently other representatives of the
school people. In one city, among the guests are always included one
or more of those in charge of the observance of Public Schools Week.
It was not only in the Shrine Clubs that Public Schools Week
luncheons were held,. There were others arranged by Service Clubs.
These, it would appear, were of two general classes. In one, the
luncheon was held where the members of the club regularly assemble;
· and it was the nature of the program which made it a Public Schools
Week luncheon. In the other, the luncheon was served in the cafeteria
of a public school; and the members of the club, either before or after,
generally after, lunch, were conducted about the school by pupils ap~
pointed for that purpose.
In one community they have what they call "An Inter-Service Club
Luncheon." All the service clubs in the city, with one of them as the
"host club" assemble in a joint session on some day during Public
Schools Week; and the luncheon is held in the cafeteria of a high
school. The clubs alternate as "host club."
The program consists (in addition to the usual introductory features
of a service club luncheon) of an address on an appropriate subject
with instrumental and vocal numbers presented by students. This year
the subject of the address was "A Complete Youth Program." .
There were several Lodges which this year furnished their members
with cards to be returned to the Master with a report of their participation in the observance by visits to the schools. In at least one instance,
the card was a printed U. S. Postal Card with only blanks to be filled
stating the school, or schools, visited, and the date, with any desired
comment. The return address was printed and all that was necessary
to be done (in addition to filling the blanks) was for the member to
sign his name and mail the card.
It is reasonable to assume that cards were returned by only those
who could report at least one visit; and it is perhaps also reasonable
to assume that (generally speaking of course) the return of the cards

90

91

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

was largely the perfunctory performance of what was deemed tp be a
duty. There were, however, some instances reported where a member,
in addition to returning his card, or in lieu of it, wrote a letter to his
Master with a detailed account of his visit, or visits, and his personal
reaction. Those Brethren did just what is done by the "Observers"
who are appointed as a feature of the arrangements in a particularly
well organized community of which mention has been made in reports
from this Committee.

1948.'' In his story, he explained "just how the schools operate, what
they teach, how they teach, and why they teach the way they do.''
It was ideal Public Schools Week stuff.

As would be expected, after so many years, and with the dissemination of the information contained in these reports, it is not often that
there is now anything entirely novel in the arrangements. or in the program, of any particular observance. This year, however, there was a
real novelty reported in connection with the publicity of an observance.
Lapel ribbons on which was printed (by a high school print shop)
"Public Schools Week-April 26 to April 30-Visit Your School" were
worn immediately prior to, and during, the week, by the clerks in the
retail stores in that community. It was apparently very effective. In
passing, it may be said that there were forty-two organizations par-.
ticipating in the observance. They were referred to in the printed program as "Sponsoring Organizations."
There was another school print shop in another community which
took an active part in the observance there. Each visitor to the Union
High School received a souvenir in the form of a specially printed card
setting forth that the person whose name was printed thereon had
visited the Printing Department of that school during Public Schools
Week, April 26-30, 1948.
Akin to the old query "Which Came First-the Hen or the Egg?"
is the question of whether the amount of newspaper publicity is dependent on the extent of public interest in the subject covered, or if it
is the publicity which creates that interest. Whatever may be the fact,
there can be no question that this year both public interest and newspaper publicity reached a very high mark. There were editorials, news
stories, and special articles, with illustrations of all sorts-including
cartoons, individual and group photographs of participants in the programs and of those in charge of the observance, and graphs of various
sorts: and there were even reproductions of old photographs of the
days of "The Little Red School House." In some communities the
amount of newspaper space devoted to the observance of Public Schools
Week was such as to be literally amazing.
Some of the special articles must have been a revelation to those who
read them. Among others was one written by ·a reporter (with a "Byline") who went to school "For View of Classes as They Operate in

Information similar to that contained in this special newspaper piece,
but more of it and in greater detail, is set forth in the brochures and
booklets which were given to visitors at several "open house" functions
this year. Among the most ambitious of these was one which was practically a history of pioneer and early schools, not only in the city in
which the booklet was issued, but in the entire state.
Extensive as was the newspaper publicity this year (and never
before was there more of it) that received from the broadcasting stations was no. less so. And again this year the evident willingness, yes,
apparent eagerness, with which this fine cooperation was given by not
only local stations, but also by the statewide systems, was extremely
gratifying to those charged with the conduct of the observance, and
by whom it was greatly appreciated.
Again this year too, radio played an important part in publicizing
the observance, and in giving information concerning our public schools.
Indeed, because of a situation which could not have been guarded
against, it was in certain communities a very important part.
It will be remembered that in April of this year we had very unusual
weather in California, with torrential rains in certain sections of the
state: as a result, the radio programs were all that some people were
able to enjoy.

It is extraordinary, by the way, that there were such large audiences
in spite of the very inclement weather on certain days. Unfortunately
however, there were some outdoor events which, because of the weather,
were postponed, and in a few instances, completely abandoned.
It is extremely interesting to note that although there has been
marked progress everywhere in making the Observance a community
affair, rather than a purely Masonic event, the fact that it was instituted,
and continues to be fostered, by our Fraternity has been, in recent
years, more, rather than less. publicized.
Not only in the newspapers. but also in school publications, and in
printed programs, and by school people generally. Masonry's intimate
connection with Public School Week is repeatedly referred to and
emphasized.
Typical of this are the following excerpts from a printed "Welcome
to Public Schools Week" by a Superintendent of Schools:
"Under the sponsorship of the Masonic Lodge. Public Schools
Week has become a traditional time in which patrons of education
can better acquaint themselves with the school and its personnel.''

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"The Masonic Lodge, through sponsorship of Public Schools
Week, is again exhibiting its notable service to American public
education." (This, by the way, was in a community in which
there were seventeen cooperating organizations.)
In another community on the back page of the program, the Superintendent gives "The Story of Public Schools Week"-and after reciting
its origin, concludes with_these words:
"Ever since, the Masons have unselflshly supported the schools
and the observance of this special week.-They deserve our appreciation."
A,nd on the inside cover of one of those booklets to which we have
referred-and, incidentally, a very attractively illustrated one depicting
"Steps to Leaming," appears the Proclamation of the Grand Master,
in full.
Reference has been made to the matter not boastfully, but for the
benefit of those of our Brethren, now happily fewer in number than
they once were, whQ are apparently fearful that Masonry will not
receive the credit to which it is entitled. Those Brethren have forgotten,
if they ever knew, that Public Schools Week was not instituted for
the aggrandizement of the Fraternity, but for the benefit of our Public
Schools.
Although, as has been said, it is seldom that there is now anything
entirely new reported, there are from time to time adaptations and
modifications of features which have proved particularly attractive in
other communities.
There was reported this year what was termed "An Appreciation
Banquet." It was held on the Saturday night preceding the beginning
of Public Schools Week: and while, in a way, it was similar to some
of the "pre-week" gatherings of which mention has been made in the
reports from this committee, it was for a different purpose.
The hosts were the members of the joint Committee of the Masonic
Lodges joining in the observance; and the ninety guests were principals
and teachers of the schools in the area. It naturally called public attention to the Week's activity, but its primary and announced purpose was
to "provide an expression of appreciation for the contribution of public
schools to the welfare and development of the community."
That this "Appreciation Banquet" served its avowed purpose, there
can be no doubt. But something more than this must have been effected.
Affairs of this sort are a recognition of not only the worth of our
teachers as such, but of their high place in the civic life of the community: and, incidentally, of their social status. They tend to make the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

93

profession attractive to those young people who now seem disin~lined
to prepare themselves for it. They also tend to create a different and
more intimate relationship between teacher and parent. It would be
strange indeed, if this did not result in a better job of teaching-of
teaching not only a child of the parent with whom the teacher had
become acquainted, but all the children in her classes.
Usually, and as would be naturally expected, practically all the
visitors to any school are parents of the pupils of that school. This
year, even in the very large communities, that was not so universally
the fact; although in one city where it was a case of "standing room
only" at almost all the evening affairs, parent attendance broke all
previous records.
There were several reports of visits by public spirited citizens who
had no children in the school. It was assumed that at least some of
them were desirous of ascertaining the truth or falsity of the arguments
being made for a proposed bond issue. They probably wanted to see
with their own eyes the over-crowded, obsolete and hazardous conditions which could be overcome only by the contemplated school construction program.
Whatever may have been the reason, a very interesting, and unusual,
situation was reported by one of the Lodges as showing the extent of
public interest. Visitors who had no children in school constituted more
than twenty-five per cent of the total number of visitors. There were
1200 visitors registered: and of these ·t here were only 841 with children
in school. Incidentally, the total pupil enrollment was approximately
1600.
Notable as was the increase in the number of visitors to the schools
and in the size of the audiences at the various functions, the success of
the Twenty-ninth Observance of Public Schools Week is not to be
measured by that alone; nor alone by the amount of publicity received
from the newspapers and broadcasting stations: or the fine cooperation
of the school people and of the organizations which join with us each
year. All must be considered together.
From every point of view, and in every aspect, of our latest observance, an extraordinarily high mark was set. Whether or not it will be
reached (and perhaps surpassed) next year depends entirely on the
effort which will be made. There is fair promise of it in the reports
from many places that preparations have been already started.
One Lodge reported that there is to be a preliminary meeting early
in December: and in another community there was a meeting held in
May, immediately after the close of this year's observance, to outline
plans for an even better observance next year.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Promising, too, is the fact that several of the reports make mention
of the organization of permanent committees for the annual observance
of Public Schools Week. Furthermore, this year's observance had
hardly come to its close before inquiries were being received from school
authorities who, in arranging their calendars, wanted to know the date
of next year's observance-April 25, 1949 (the fourth Monday in
April).
It is to be hoped that before that day arrives there will have been
a change for the better in the situation which, as stated in one of the
editorials quoted, "should never have been permitted to exist." But let
us as Masons have ever in mind, ( not merely in the fourth week in
April but in every week in the year, and on every day in the week), that
teacher shortage, over-crowded class rooms, double sessions, and obsolete school buildings are not the only danger threatening our public
schools. And let us as Masons not only have that in mind, but let us,
as citizens in our respective communities be ready to do something about
it. Let us be willing and eager to join with other friends of public education in meeting and overcoming that danger, whatever may be its kind
or nature, and from whatever source it may come.

Report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes

94

Respectfully submitted,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
HIRAM G. DILLIN
JOHN M. LEE
ROBERT A. ODELL
JESSE
WARNER

w.

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

95

To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Fifty-Sixth Annual Report, for the year ending July 31. 1948, together with the reports of the Supe!intendents of our Homes, and the
financial reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The Board of Trustees met on October 17, 1947, after the adjournment of Grand Lodge. The Board was constituted as follows:
Samuel E. Burke......................................term expires 1948
Chas. Albert Adams................................term expires 1949
Charles M. W ollenberg..........................term expires 1950
Frank M . Harwell, Jr........................_ ....term expires 1951
Edward H. Siems.................- ......... Deputy Grand Master
Ellsworth Meyer.............................. Senior Grand Warden
Arthur J>aulsen..................................Junior Grand Warden
The election of Edward H. Siems (Deputy Grand Master), Ellsworth Meyer (Senior Grand Warden) and Arthur Paulsen (Junior
Grand Warden) were formally reported to the Board. ·
The Board then organized for the ensuing year by electing the
following officers:
Charles M. Wollenberg, President
Ellsworth Meyer, Vice-President
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge, F.
& A,. M. of California, Past Grand Master Francis V. Keesling is
Treasurer of the Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge, F.
& A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secretary of the Masonic Homes of California
During the year Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, Grand
Master, appointed Trustee Frank Harwell, Jr. to the position of Assistant Grand Lecturer of the Grand Lodge and Trustee Harwell submitted his resignation as a member of the Board. On June 27, 1948
the Grand Master appointed Inspector Leonard Gross to the position
of Trustee of the Masonic Homes vice Frank Harwell, Jr., resigned,
term to expire 1951. Brother Gross resigned his position as Inspector
of District No. 96-A in order that he might give his entire attention to
the affairs of the Board.
Brother Samuel E. Burke, Past Grand Master, who served the Board
for thirty years as a Trustee, submitted his resignation at the end of
August of this year. Brother Burke stated that having completed thirty
years on the Board he had achieved an ambition to serve the Board to
the full extent of his capacities over that long period of time and was
earnest in his desire to be relieved of further duties as a Trustee.

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brother Burke's retirement will be a real loss to those charged with
the administration of the affairs of our Homes. His long service as a
Trustee naturally gave him a continuing knowledge of npt only the
proceedings of the Board, but as well also of the needs of the children
at Covina and of the aged at Decoto; and because of his regular and
punctual attendance at all meetings, that knowledge was always available to the other members of the Board. Incidentally, they are confident
that notwithstanding Brother Burke's retirement, the Trustees may at
any time unhesitatingly call upon him for counsel and advice. No one
not familiar with the service Brother Burke has rendered can appreciate
the contribution he has made to the Homes and to the Fraternity. The
other members of the Board avail themselves of this opportunity to express for the Board, and they trust for the Grand Lodge, too, their
appreciation of, and thanks for, the splendid service Brother Burke has
rendered.
CONDITION OF THE HOMES

Your Board of Trustees has repeatedly called the attention of
Grand Lodge to the work which should be done both at Covina and at
Decoto to keep the properties repaired and rehabilitated and in a condition of which the Fraternity may be proud. It has been possible now
to undertake this work of rehabilitation and reconstruction and, in the
case of Covina, at least, to complete it.
The Board reported last year that the contracts had been let to rehabilitate the Home at Covina and it is gratifying to be able to report
this year that all of that work has been done. All who have visited the
Home at Covina and inspected the completed job are enthusiastic in their
praise of the accomplishments. The buildings have been brought up to
a high state of repair, many things which have been planned for a long
time have at least been carried to completion both in new features and
in the beautification of existing portions of the buildings. The total
cost has been $200,153.11.
The work referred to in the last report of the Trustees with reference
to the work at Decoto, Page 115, 1947 Proceedings, is being carried
forward as rapidly as conditions permit. As of October 1st, the architect reports approximately 40% complete. The total contracts let to date
aggregate approximately $620,000.00. This does not include painting;
it is estimated that the painting will cost approximately $45,000.00.
Other work contemplated will be rehabilitating roadways, making certain changes· in all of the buildings, as a result of orders issued by th~
State Fire Marshall. The Board of Trustees is also considering the
construction of a home for the superintendent, away from the main
building. As soon as this has been accomplished, it is their intention to
employ an assistant to the superintendent, a need which has been recognized by all those familiar with the operation of the Home.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

97

The total estimated cost of these additional items is approximately
$50,000.00.
ENLARGEMENT OF BOARD

As presently constituted, the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes of California consists of the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior
Grand Warden and Junior Grand Warden, ex Officio, and four trustees
appointed for four year terms by successive Grand Masters. Of the
appointive trustees, two must be from Lodges in the vicinity of the
Home at Decoto and two in the vicinity of the Home at Covina. The
three elected Grand Lodge officers usually are selected alternately from
the Northern and Southern parts of the state. Hence, the Board of
Trustees is composed of approximately equal numbers from the North
and the South.
While the full board meets together from four to six times each year,
the bulk of its work is transacted in meetings of the Southern half on
Tuesdays and the Northern half on Fridays and action taken by either
half is transmitted to the other before taking effect. No undue burden
is imposed when the Grand Lodge officers are residents of San Francisco
or Los Angeles or the immediate vicinities. There is a marked tendency,
however, to select regularly someone who resides at a distance from
these two metropolitan centers for the elective posts. This presents a
very practical problem for the sectional meetings of the Board. We
anticipate that it will not be lessened as time passes.
We therefore recommend that the Board of Trustees be increased
by the addition of one more trustee residing in the vicinity of each Home.
If the present term of four years was continued the result would be that
in some years there would be two vacancies and in other years only
one, but by shortening the tenure to three years, the terms of two trustees would expire each year.
We also recommend that our statutory provisions be modified to
provide that when a trustee shall have served nine years upon the
Board, he shall be ineligible for reappointment until the lapse of one
year. Such provision is to be found in other organizations and in practice
has been found meritorious.
.
To the several ends just discussed we propose an amendment to
section 79 of the Ordinances of the Grand Lodge and move that it be
referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and on Jurisprudence. We propose that said section 79 be amended to read as
follows:
Sec. 79.
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California shall be
nine in number. The Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden
and Junior Grand Warden shall be Trustees ex-officio, the other
six Trustees shall be appointed by successive Grand Masters. The
term of appointive Trustees shall be three years from the close of

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the annual communication of the Grand Lodge. Three appointive
Trustees shall be residents in the vicinity of the Home at Decato
and three shall be residents in the vicinity of the Home at Covina.
If a Trustee shall serve three consecutive terms after 1948, he
shall be ineligible for reappointment until the lapse of one year.
They shall be the successors of the Trustees originally appointed
under the resolutions adopted by the Grand Lodge in 1892 and
subsequently thereto.
Incumbent appointive Trustees shall continue in office for their
unexpired terms respectively and the Grand Master shall appoint
a Trustee residing in the vicinity of the Home at Covina to a
term ending in 1949 and another such Trustee to a term ·ending
in 1950. Their successors shall be appointed to terms of three years
each.
We'also offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the articles of Incorporation be amended by amend~
ing the Fifth paragraph thereof to read as follows:
Fifth: That the number of directors (who shall be known as, and
called, Trustees) of the Incorporation shall be nine (a); and they
shall be chosen as is now, or may be hereafter, provided by the Ordi~
nances and Resolutions of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of California.

lt-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

In the fiscal year ending July 31, 1937, there was a total of 151
women at Decato with an average age of 73.39, and during that yeaB
16 were admitted with an average age of 74.25. Ten years later, that
is to say, July 31, 1947, there were 172 women at Decato with an aver~
age age of 78 years and 32 were admitted with an average age of 76.87.
Again this clearly indicates that the average age of the women residents
at Decato is going up as is likewise the average age of the women who
are admitted.
This continued rise of the average age of the residents at Decato
is one of the reasons for the shortage of rooms. And because of the
shortage of rooms for women, it is not now, and during the entire year,
has not been, possible to admit a woman immediately whose application
has been acted upon favorably. But the completion of the building for
nurses and women employees now under construction will release rooms
in the main building which will relieve this shortage. Although not so
acute, there is likewise a shortage of rooms for married couples. But
there is nothing planned in the building program on which we are now
engaged to relieve that shortage.

POPULATION

It must be born in mind that the membership in the Lodges of Cali~
fornia is increasing, year by year, and we may reasonably expect that
there will be increased demands upon us both at Covina and at Decato
and we assume that it is the intention of the Fraternity to plan to meet
these demands.

The population trend at both Decato and Covina continues to pre~
sent an interesting situation as was stated last year. It is interesting to
note that the total applications to Decato for the year 1947 and for the
year 1948 are almost identical. The applications for Covina have been
accelerated somewhat but there is still not a very great population gain
there. It is interesting to note what has taken place in the last ten years
both in relation to Decato and Covina, and particularly in relation to the
average age of those admitted to Decato and those remaining there.
;Ten years ago, that is to say, at the close of the fiscal year in 1937,
there were at Decato 201 men with an average age of 74.61 years
and during the year there were admitted 37 men with an average age
of 73.72 years. During the fiscal year which closed on July 31. 1947,
just ten years Jater, the total number of men at the Home was 127
with an average age of 77.97 years, and there were admitted 42 men
with an average age of 76.92. This indicates that the average age of
the men at Decato is steadily rising as is likewise the average age at
the time of admission. The comparative figures for 1948, that is the
fiscal year closing July 31, 1948, are: total number of men at the Home
was 121 with an average age of 76.11 years; number of women at the
Home was 180 with an average age of 77.64 years. There were 27 men
admitted with an average age of 76.11 and 32 women with an average
age of 75.5.

We reported to you last year that the general finances of the Masonic
Homes were in excellent shape, but we pointed out that it was necessary
to spend in excess of a half million dollars for work contemplated or
actually under construction. As a matter of fact, it has been necessary to
spend two hundred thousand dollars at Covina and to contract for more
than a half million dollars at Decato with the prospect that there is
perhaps another one hundred fifty thousand dollars to be spent at that
location.
We pointed out last year that the Homes were being maintained with~
out any contributions from the Lodges except such payments as are made
for admissions in excess of the Lodge quota.
Your Board last year recommended that a provision for the constitu~
tional requirement of 50c for building fund be repealed and by action of
Grand Lodge that was repealed. Your Board had previously recom~
mended for two years that there be no per capita tax levied for mainten~
ance and therefore iJJ. the year which has just closed the Lodges paid no
per capita tax and no building fund levy.
We should like to refer again to paragraph four of last year's report
under the heading of Finances in which we explained the source of the
funds for the support of your Masonic Homes. It now becomes apparent

FINANCES

101

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that the moneys received from these sources will not be sufficient, in all
probability, to maintain the Homes in the year commencing August 1,
1949.
In order to meet the payments on contracts which already have been,
or will be, let to complete the work at Decoto, it will be necessary to
have available approximately $200,000 more than the moneys we now
have for that purpose. It is the intention of the Board to transfer this
amount from the Flint Trust Fund; but with the further intention of
restoring it in order that there may always be a reserve to meet any emergency at Decoto such as that with which we are now confronted.
To restore the money which will be transferred from the Flint fund,
a per capita tax will again be necessary: as will be also a tax for the
operation and management of the two homes for the year starting August
L 1949.
We therefore recommend that at this communication a per capita tax
of twenty-five cents be levied for the building fund, and a like tax of
twenty-five cents be levied for the operation and management of both
homes for the year commencing August 1, 1949-making a total per
capita levy of fifty cents for the fiscal year commencing August 1, 1948.

completed. All of the members who find it necessary to be cared for in
these departments are receiving excellent care under the kindly and
efficient supervision of Miss Esther G. Payne. Dr. E. C. Grau is in
charge of the medical and surgical work of the hospital department.
Mrs. Virginia Lord, our Matron, has been extremely busy throughout
the year, keeping our Home in order in every department. In an effort to
bring cheer to the members of the Home, a choral group has been organized. comprised of members of the Home. Several times a week this group
gathers in the main parlor for an hour of songs. These occasions are
enjoyed immensely by the Home family, and tend to create a very
desirable atmosphere among the members. Mrs. Lord joins the singers
on many occasions. Her presence is appreciated very much by the group,
and is an incentive for them to continue their activity. All other departments in the Home are fully staffed and are operating satisfactorily.
Operating costs are always a matter for serious concern and this
report discloses the all-time high in the history of the Home. We have
and will continue to practice every possible economy consistent with
inaintaining a high standard, with the hope that our general economic
eqndition throughout the country may become stabilized and high living
costs materially reduced.
I am pleased to report that the much needed modern laundry equipment has been installed in our laundry: our elevators have all been reconditioned and remodeled in compliance with the State Fire Marshal's and
Engineering Department of the Employers Groups recommendations.
Work on the new elevator and the radio system which has been installed in the hospital is completed, and the finishing work on the interior
of the two wards is underway.
The work on the Nurses Home, refrigeration plant, remodeling of the
dormitory for married couples and single men, and the repairs on Temple
and Temple elevator are also well underway..
The water level in this section of the country has been very low for
the past two years and as a result our well does not produce an adequate
IOpply. We are still compelled to purchase water from the Public Utilities Company of Niles.
The farm land is still under lease. Receipts are as follows for that
portion of the land reserved for the Home use :

100

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT -DECOTO HOME

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Brethren: Once again I am privileged to present the annual report of
the Masonic Home at Decoto, for the year ending July 31st, 1948: this
brings the 49th Superintendent's report of the operation of the Home
and the 8th of my stewardship.
I am pleased to report that the general routine of the Home affairs has
not materially changed this year. At the beginning of the year there
were 172 women and 127 men who are comfortably housed, and who,
generally speaking, are quite contented and most appreciative of their
numerous 'blessings. and of the kindly interest taken in them by the
Masons throughout California. During the year, 32 women and 27 men
were admitted; and we lost by death 22 women and 33 men and 2 women
wE're withdrawn, leaving at the end of the year 180 women and 121 men,
a total of 301. Included in this total are 14 married couples.
The health condition of the residents of the Home has been very good
during the year. However, a very large percentage of the members are
well along in years. therefore it is reasonable to expect many of them
to be feeble and infirm. At present there are 54 men and women being
cared for in our hospital, and 16 semi-invalid women being cared for on
the fourth floor in the east wing. The hospital has been crowded most
of the time, while the east win-g as been full at all times, and several
women in the main building are waiting to be transferred to this department. The crowded condition. in these departments will be corrected
when the work in the two wards on the second floor of the hospital are

Fresh fruit ····································-············-···········$ 31.50
Hay ·····································································-·· 240.00
Pork, 34 hogs, 8292..........................................-- ··· 2,320.35
Walnuts ···········································-····················
Vegetables ·······································-·······-············

90.00
323.25

Total .........................................:...- ...............$3,005.10

102

103

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The many programs which were presented by various groups through.
out the year, a complete list of which is found in another portion of
our report, have all been excellent, greatly appreciated, enthusiastically
received and immensely enjoyed by our Home family. We feel, however,
that the two outstanding programs of the year which are entitled to
special mention are the East Bay Past Matrons Association's reception
of the Worthy Grand Matron, Thelma Bailey, and the East Bay
Masters' and Wardens' Association under the direction of the President
Ernest Sharp.
'
To the following film distributing companies goes our grateful thanks,
and a deep appreciation for their generosity and thoughtfulness in providing, gratis, the Home family with excellent weekly programs. R.K.O.,
Columbia, United Artists, Warner Bros., M.G.M. and Twentieth Century Fox.
We are deeply indebted to the Reverend gentlemen of the Ministerial
Association.of Southern Alameda County for the fine inspirational messages which they bring to the Family each Sunday. We extend to these
Reverend gentlemen our sincere thanks for their continued interest in
the Home.
Our library is a very popular department for those of the family who
find comfort and pleasure in reading, for it is well supplied with all of
the late books, magazines, periodicals and papers which enables the residents of the Home to keep up to date on politics and current events.
Grand Master Chester Warlow and many other Grand Lodge officers
have honored us with visits during the year, and the Trustees, individually and collectively have visited us many times throughout the year.
May I pause to give recognition to the whole-hearted and encouraging
support which the Board of Trustees and the officers of the Grand
Lodge have given to Mrs. Lord and to me. We want to assure you that
it is greatly appreciated.
In conclusion Mrs. Lord and I want to say that we are deeply appredative for the loyal and conscientious efforts of our employees. We
would be remiss, indeed, if we failed to acknowledge with thanks, the
loyalty and co-operation of the large majority of members of the Home,
for we realize without such loyalty on the part of our employees and our
members of the Home our efforts would be in vain.

NUMBER OF RESIDENTS AS OF JULY 31, 1948

Respectfully submitted,
}AMES

R. EUBANKS,
Superintendent.

Decoto Home:
Men
Residents, August 1, 1947........•......... 127
Admitted ....................... ,...................... 27
Died and withdrawn.............................. 23
Residents July 31, 1948.......................... 121
Covina Home:
Boys
Residents, August 1, 1947.................... 45
Admitted ................................................ 10
Graduated and withdrawn.................... 10
Residents, July 31, 1948........................ 45

Women
172
32
24
180
Girls
23
1

5
19

Total
299
59
57
301
Total
68
11
15
64

PER CAPITA COST

I
I
I

Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal Year
Ending July 31, 1948
Decoto Home:
Cost of Maintenance...................................................... $258,060.04
299
Average number of residents..........................................
21,500.50
Average operating cost per month..................................
707.01
Average cost per day......................................................
863.07
Average cost per resident per year..........................·-···
71.92
Average cost per resident per month ............................. .
2.36
Average cost per resident per day..................................
80
Average number of employees ................. ~---··········--·······
Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenance...................................................... $132,864.97
68
Average number of residents ........................................:.
11,072.08
Average operating cost per month..................................
364.01
Average cost per day..................................................... .
1,953.90
Average cost per child per year......................................
162.83
Average cost per child per month ..................................
5.35
Average cost per child per day....................................... .
27
Average number of employees ........................................
REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT-COVINA HOME

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is again my privilege and my duty to present to you this my third
annual report for the year ending July 31, 1948.
During the past year much has been accomplished in the program of
rehabilitating the Home. The results obtained from this extensive work
have brought forth much favorable comment from visiting members of the
fraternity. All demands of the State Fire Marshall have been complied
with. The required steel fire stairways were worked into the plan with·
out seriously detracting from the appearance of the buildings. Color and
new fabrics have added greatly to the interiors of the children's build-

105

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ings. To keep the program of the children on a normal basis as nearly as
possible during the alterations required great patience and understanding
on the part of all concerned. To those employed by the Home and to the
firms engaged in the contract work much credit is due.
HoME MEMBERSHIP: This year has brought no increase in Home
membership. The population now is 64. There are 45 boys and 19 girls.
During the year 15 children left us.two by graduation from high school
and ten to their homes to live with parents or relatives. Six of these were
to homes re-established by remarriage of mothers. 0 f the eleven admissions during the year there were ten boys and one girl.
A recent classification of the children under our care shows the following:
Percentage of children having neither parent living ........ 15.7
Percentage of children having one parent living ..............62.5
Percentage of children having both parents living ..........2L8
LODGE VISITATIONS: The interest in the Home shown by Lodges has
been most gratifying. An increase was registered both in number 'of
Lodges and individuals during the year. To these Lodges and to the
associated Masonic orlfclnizations we express our appreciation. Their
generosity in bringing gifts of jams, jellies and treats for the children is
recorded in other sections of the Home's report.
ENTERTAINMENT: During the year the children have enjoyed parties.
programs and movies through the generous thoughtfulness of our many
friends. The traditional Christmas party provided by Monrovia and Soujourners Lodges was again a highlight of the year. 'J'he Lodges of
Pasadena combined to provide facilities for the children to enjoy the
Tournament of Roses Parade. The weekly movies at the Home were
again provided by six of the major studios and were enjoyed more than
ever in the newly remodelled basement auditorium. If those who provided
these and other entertainments could have been here to witness the delight and pleasure of the children they would need no other expression
of appreciation to feel amply repaid for their gifts.
DONATIONS AND GIFTS: The many donations listed for the year have
added greatly to the fuller enjoyment and pleasure of the children.
Though each brings happiness not to be measured by the size or monetary value of the gift, we cannot pass the closing of the year without
special mention of a few. The television sets provided by Loyalty and
Los Cerritas Lodges have contributed much to the recreation program of
the children. The Westerners Masonic Club furnished the drapes and
curtains for the auditorium and have nearly completed the installation
of a 12-inch telescope. To these and all groups which have remembered
the Home we offer our sincere thanks.
SCHOOLS AND COMMUNITY ACTMTIES: The children have made
normal progress in the public schools of the community during the year.

Many have participated in the extra-curricular and sports programs of
their schools.
The Junior groups regularly attend the various Sunday Schools in
Covina. Regular attendance is not compulsory for older boys and girls
but some participate in Sunday school. church and youth programs.
Girl Scouts, Cub Scouts for boys and De Malay have met with favorable response and have provided means for the children to join with
other boys and girls in the life of the community. The Home will be
honored with one of its boys serving as Master Counselor of the local
De Malay Chapter next term.
HEALTH PROGRAM: The year has brought no serious problem in the
children's health program. Thirteen operations for tonsils and adenoids
are recorded. No other serious surgery or accidents occured. The children have been examined at regular intervals by Dr. W. P. Magan who
continues to supervise them closely. The average number of bed patients
during the year was 2.08 per day. Daily visits to the nurse at the Home
Cliinc are made by many children who have developed a good sense of
self-responsibility in helping to keep themselves in good health.
This health program requires of the doctors and nurses work and attention which must be motivated by a sense of duty and devotion to the
children's welfare. Of this service we are especially appreciative.
Dr. Ellwood Laine, dentist, examined and treated 118 cases during the
year. Two children began orthodentia treatment.
FARM AND GROUNDS: The grove, in common with many of this area,
has produced only a fair crop this season. Fruit sizes are small and the
market price therefore low. The portions of the grove in front of the
buildings have been put under a non-tillage method which makes it
unnecessary to work the tractor in these small plots. The borders are
being landscaped to add to the beauty of the grounds. New lawns and
flower beds are established in the front courts and along the main drive.
These are an addition to the general good appearance of the property.
A new tractor and new pick-up truck were purchased during the year
to replace old equipment.
To all who have helped in carrying the work and program of the Home
during the past year we wish to express our sincere thanks. It has been
a pleasure to receive at the Home the members of Lodges, Grand Lodge
Officers, Board of Trustees and others who assist in supporting and
maintaining the Home.

104

•
I

Respectfully submitted,
PAUL c. PARRY,

Superintendent.
Adopted.
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General
Purposes and Finance.

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Right Worshipful Edward H. Siems, Deputy Grand Master, ab~
sent from the opening ceremony due to the death and funeral of his
father, arrived and was greeted by the Grand Master.

Report of Committee on Homes Admissions and Applications

To the Most Worshipful Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Mason'S of the Jurisdiction of California.
Most Worshipful Sir:
At its annual communication in 1946 this Grand Lodge appointed a
Committee to survey and study the property, operation and management
of the Masonic Homes at Decoto and Covina. While engaged in that
work the committee was frequently urged to recommend changes in the
Rules for Admission to the Homes and to review the action of the
trustees in specific cases. The committee declined to take such action
upon ·t he ground that it had not been appointed for such purposes; but
in view of the urgency and frequency of such requests it did recommend
that a new committee be appointed to make a study of the rules and
the general policy of admission and make its report at this time. The
present committee was appointed for that purpose.
The Rules are printed in full in section 711 of the Ross Digest, but
the Craft, as a whole, are unfamiliar with them. Masons, as a general
thing, base their attitudes toward Masonic Relief. as administered by
the trustees of the Homes, upon the ritual and what they have assumed
to be the function of the Homes at the time of their raising. It is clear
that a broad campaign of education is needed to correct many misunder~
standings in that regard. Inspectors, masters, and other persons in~
terested in applications complain that they are not certain that the rules
mean; that when requested to advise prospective applicants as to the
possibility of admission they cannot give authoritative advice in advance
of formal action by the trustees; and that because of conflicting decisions
and inconsistent action in cases that appear to be based upon identical
facts, they cannot explain the reason for the rulings to the parties
directly affected or chart their future course by established precedents
One of the most frequent statements is that if a Mason ever needs help
it is when he is too ill to care for himself and must have immediate hos~
pitalization.
Before proceeding with a discussion of the criticisms mentioned, it
is desirable that we consider the historical background of Masonic
Relief as administered through the Homes in order that the Rules and
Practice of Admission may be viewed in their true light. For this purpose
we here incorporate a report made for this committee by one of its
members, Brother Frank Harwell Jr.:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

107

"A Brief Sketch
of
The Historical Background and Development
of
Rules for Admission to Masonic Homes
"At the annual communication of Grand Lodge in October, 1890,
a special committee was appointed by the Grand Master to explore the
feasibility of erecting a Home for Masonic Widows. and Orphans.
"This committee made its report at the communication of 1891. The
report was referred to the Jurisprudence Committee which introduced a
resolution at this same communication to the effect that the Grand
Master be authorized to appoint a committee of nine brethren of the
Grand Lodge who would be empowered to act in all phases of the matter
of such a Home, their acts and decisions to be subject to final approval
by the Grand Master. The resolution was adopted by Grand Lodge.
"In accordance with this resolution, the Grand Master appointed
such a committee, and he reported to Grand Lodge in his annual message
in 1892 that the committee has submitted to him a plan which he had
approved. Following out the provisions of this plan, the Grand Master
reported that he had appointed nine Trustees with the general power,
among others, to adopt by~laws and rules, all subject to approval by
the Grand Master; that he had received written acceptances from these
nine Trustees, and that they had entered at once upon the discharge
of their duties.
"At this same communication of 1892 these nine Trustees made their
first annual report to Grand Lodge, covering their acts for the previous
nine months. Attached to this report and made a part of it was a copy
of the By~laws adopted by these Trustees. Articles IV and V, entitled
'Admission to the Home.' read in part, as follows:
'Section 1. The orphans, half~orphans and widows of deceased
Master Masons, who at the time of their death were members in
good standing of Masonic bodies within the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of the State of California, shall be admitted to the
Home, under such regulations as the Board of Trustees may adopt.
As soon as the finances of the Charity will admit of it, the Board
may make provisions for the maintenance of the aged or infirm
Master Masons who may seek the protecting care of the Home.'
'Section 4. No orphan shall be received into the Home under
the age of 3 years, nor over 14; nor shall any be admitted who have
adequate means of support, nor any half~orphan, whose living
parent is able to support him, unless by special agreement, and

108

109

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

upon the payment of such sum as may be agreed upon with the
Board of Trustees.'
'Section 5. No person of unsound mind, or deaf and dumb, or
contaminated by any contagious disease at the time of application, shall be admitted:
'
'Article V. Section 1. These by-laws may be altered or amended at any regular meeting of the Board, by a majority of all the
members . of the Board, subject to the approval of the Grand
Master.'
"This entire report, including the By-laws, the first of its kind in
the history of Grand Lodge, was apparently received by Grand Lodge
and filed. The proceedings for that communication do not reveal that
any formal action was taken on the report.
"The reports of the Trustees for the next six annual communications
had to do with administration of funds for relief, appeals for contributions to a building fund and accounts of its growth, and preparations
for obtaining a site for the Home and the erection of the first building.
"At the communication of 1899, the Trustees made their report and
included in it, 'Regulations for Admission to the Masonic Home,' subheads 1 to 17 inclusive. Certain of these read as follows:
'8. A Master Mason in good standing in a Lodge of this jurisdiction who is unable to support himself or earn a livelihood, is
of good character, and free from disease, of temperate habits,
not addicted to the use of narcotics, and without relatives who
by process of law can be compelled to support him, may, if
his admission does not interfere with the demands of orphans
and widows applying for admission, be admitted to the Home.

free from any chronic disease, either physical or mental. may
also be admitted.'
'17. The Board of Trustees may admit to the Home Masons.
their wives, widows or orphans, not covered by the foregoing
regulations, upon such terms as they may deem best.'
'Adopted by the Board of Trustees September 14, 1898.'
"In succeeding years we find in the annual reports of the Trustees
many references to problems confronting them incident to the administration of the rules for admission, and appeals to the Lodges for a more
careful scrutiny of applicants for admission. Certain portions of these
reports have a particular bearing on the matter of Rules for Admission,
and their interpretation and application.
"In the Trustees' report for 1918, we find the following:
'Admissions. * * * There has been but one disputed point in
eligibility. A ruling was made by a Grand Master that a female
orphan of a Mason was always an orphan, regardless of age, and
regardless of how many times they may have married outside the
fraternity, and were entitled to relief. Our regulations provide for
admission of orphans under 16 years of age, and we have not
recommended any change. We received 2 applications this year
for orphans 70 years of age. who by the ruling of the Grand Lodge
were entitled to Masonic relief, but by our regulations not entitled
to admission to the Home. Unless otherwise instructed, the Board
will contin.ue under our present regulations.'
"In the Trustees' report for 1919, the following is pertinent and enlightening:
'It not infrequently happens that an application is made for
admission to the Home at Decoto for a person who is not indigent
in the sense governing admissions to the Home, but who is so
situated that he is without a home-( describes a case). Under the
rules and regulations governing the Home, the Trustees were compelled to deny the application.'
'The situation with reference to children is even more embarrssing. In the event of the death of the father, if the mother
is compelled to seek employment and therefore unable to care for the
child, it is admitted to the Home at Covina. In the event of the!
death of the mother, however, the child is not admitted if the
earnings of the father are sufficient to provide for the support of
the child.'
'Under the discretion vested in the Trustees, if the earnings of
the father are not sufficient to pay for some one in whose care
the child may be placed while the father is absent from home, the
child is admitted. 1£, however, the earnings of the father are suffi-

------.

'9. The wife of a Master Mason who has been admitted to the
Home may, in the discretion of the Board of Trustees, also
be received therein, if she and her husband so wish, upon her
complying with the regulations herein prescribed for widows.'
'10. A widow whose husband was a member of a Lodge in this
jurisdiction and in good standing at the time of his death,
who is in destitute circumstances, unable to earn a livelihood,
of good character, free from disease, of temperate habits, not
addicted to the use of narcotics, and without relatives who by
process of law can be compelled to support her, may also be
admitted.
'
'11. An orphan under the age of sixteen years, whose father was
a member of a Lodge in this jurisdiction, in good standing at
the time of his death. who is in destitute circumstances and
without relatives and friends who can be legally compelled to
support him or her, of good character and disposition, and

110

111

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

cient to maintain a home and hire a housekeeper, * * * the child
is not eligible for admission to the Home. We are compelled to
disregard entirely the question of whether or not the best interests
of the child will be subserved by placing it under the care of such
a person as the father is able to flnd.' (Example. )
'The theory of course upon which the Homes are maintained
is that only those are admitted who would otherwise be a charge
on their respective Lodges.'
'We present this matter at this time not merely in order that
the members of the Grand Lodge may be advised of the restrictions
placed upon admissions to the Home, but as well with the hope
that the best thought of the fraternity, will be given to an extremely
perplexing problem, that some plan can perhaps be devised to
ameliorate what is certainly a most unfortunate condition.'
"The record does not disclose that Grand Lodge took any action on
this request.
"We find the first reference to the ·authorization for and use of
Outside Relief' in the report rendered in 1922:
'At the last annual communication of the Grand Lodge the
Trustees were authorized to ·assist Lodges in the care of those
whose physical infirmities precluded their admission to the Decato
Home. During the year we have, under the authority given, assisted
a number of Lodges to properly care for men and women who
would otherwise have been too great a burden for the Lodges, and
who would otherwise have possibly been neglected. This expense
has been listed in our financial report as Outside Relief. * * *'
"In 1925 the Trustees reiterated the principle upon which the Homes
are maintained:
'Responsibility of Lodges * * * We have steadily adhered to
the principle that the Masonic Homes of California are maintained for those of our brethren who have become dependent upon
the Lodges, for their wives, widows, mothers, and children, and
we believe that the brethren of the jurisdiction will sustain us in
this policy.'
"The Trustees' report for 1929 contains the following interesting
statement of policy:
'A matter of policy. In the booklet that was mailed to all
Lodges in April last, giving rules for admission and general information respecting the Masonic Homes, the following paragraph
appears: "The welfare of the child should be the first consideration of the Lodge. No child should be sent to the Home until every
effort has failed to find a place in a private home." * * * Therefore,
very careful investigation should be made not only by your Trustees but by Lodges in every case to ascertain so far as possible if

some plan can be worked out whereby the child can be cared for
under the supervision of the mother or otherwise outside the
Masonic Home.'
"In the report for 1934 we find the first reference to the resolution
adopted by the Board governing the reappointment of children to the
Home at Covina, which reads in part as follows:
'Reappointment of Children. In 1931 your Board of Trustees
adopted a resolution providing that the continuance of any child
in the Home beyond the age of 16 must be authorized by special
action of the Board. The superintendent notified each child coming
within the rule to make written application for reappointment,
which applications are considered by the Board at the May
meeting.'
"This brings us the Trustees' report for 1935, in which they stated
they were submitting to Grand Lodge 'a revision of our rules and regulations governing admission to the Homes. * * * with the hope and
desire that Grand Lodge will specifically indicate the policy which should
be pursued by the Trustees with respect to any rule which does not meet
with its approval, we submit the following revision of the rules heretofore in force.' Here follow 'Rules governing admission' substantially
as found in Ross Digest, Section 714, and as revised February 3, 1940,
which are the Rules presently in force.
"It is interesting to note the following which is found on Page 501
of the Proceedings for 1935:
'The report of the Trustees was approved * * * excepting the
report as to the rules adopted by the Board, which were ref erred
to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. and consideration of the rules was made special order for 2 o'clock Wednesday.
At that time the matter of policy as to rules adopted by the Board
was postponed for .final consideration until the next annual communication.'
"The matter was not taken up or mentioned at the next annual communication.
"One other amendment to these rules was made in 1937, which is
covered in the Trustees· report, as follows:
'Rules for Admission. Amendment to rules as follows: For
each additional applicant (in excess of the quota) admitted to the
Home, or to whom outside relief is given, a charge will be made in
an amount to be fixed from time to time by the Board of Trustees.'
"This concludes the historical review. From a search of the records,
it is apparent that the Trustees at all times, both prior to and subsequent to incorporation of the Homes, have been empowered to adopt
such By-laws for their guidance and for the management of the charity
as they deemed proper and best, subject to the approval of the Grand

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Master. This is the law as stated in Section 81, Ross Digest. It therefore follows that the Trustees may adopt such Rules and Regulations
governing admissions to the Homes as they may aeem proper and best.
"Furthermore, when the Trustees, in 1899, adopted the first formal
and comprehensive set of 'Regulations for Admission to the Masonic
Home,' they wrote into these Regulations Section 17 which gave them
the authority to admit certain applicants not covered by the Regulations
upon such terms as the Trustees deemed best. From that day to this, the
Trustees have always held and operated under such discretionary power.
The record does not disclose that Grand Lodge or the Grand Master
at any time has questioned or objected to this policy.

from the historical report, for example, that the original plan inaugurated
in 1890 was to provide for a selected group of widows and orphans.
Subsequently, the plan was expanded to provide for certain Master
Masons and their wives. The purpose at all times was to provide a
home for those who were not in immediate need of actual or continuous
hospitalization. The obvious reason for many restrictions was that
sufficient money was never available to furnish adequate hospitalization for all who might apply. The initial responsibility still rested upon
relatives, if any, and upon the subordinate Lodges. It became apparent,
however, as time went on, that Lodges were often unable to grant
adequate relief in such cases and in 1922 Grand Lodge approved the
trustees of the Homes to grant Outside Relief.

"The record also clearly shows that the Trustees, on various occasions, have asked Grand Lodge for formal approval of Rules for Admission adopted by the Board, and on many occasions have appealed to
Grand Lodge for guidance in the interpretation of the Rules and their
application to perplexing cases. Grand Lodge has seen fit, at times, to
approve--never to guide."

It is at once apparent from a consideration of the foregoing extracts
from our official proceedings since 1890, that if this committee recommends specific changes in the Rules, and if the Grand Lodge at this time
adopts such recommendations, it will be the first time in our history that
Grand Lodge has taken the initiative in such matters. As said in the
report, "Grand Lodge has seen flt, at times, to approve-never to guide."
Without direct suggestion of any kind from this Grand Lodge the trustees ~ave formulated rules based upon practical experience jn the administration of such relief and the rules have been approved either by the
Grand Master or Grand Lodge.
Some ~f the confusion arises from the wording of the rules. In the
interests of clarity, some of them should be modified and the terms
defined. After a discussion of this question with the members of this
committee, the trustees have signified intention to undertake to make
appropriate changes.
The great majority of the Masons of California have never read the
Rules and are entirely unfamiliar with their origin and purpose. Masons,
in general. get their ideas of Masonic Relief from the ritual or from
others who assume that the full burden of providing relief rests upon
the homes in cases where applications can be filed. Whatever California
Masonry may undertake to do ab~ut these problems in the future, there
is no justification historically for such assumptions at the present time.
The prima~ responsibility for Masonic Relief always has rested upon
the subordinate Lodges and the true function of the Masonic Homes of
California, as originally planned and consistently followed ever since
is to supplement such relief within a limited sphere of activity and to th~
extent permitted by the use of such funds as are available. It appears

113

If anyone questions the necessity for such restrictions on admission.
he need only consider the fact that when the present program of modernization of the physical plants is completed approximately $800,000.00
will have been spent within a period of two years and the Homes will
then have only such limited hospital facilities as were contemplated in
the original plans. It is interesting to note, in this connection, that the
State and Federal governments now estimate that it requires nearly
$12,000.00 per bed to build and equip a modem hospital. In spite of the
great strides in financing made in recent years, it is obvious that the
Masonic Homes of California cannot accept everyone who wishes
to apply.
·
It is frequently said that the rules should be so specific and definite
that under any given set of facts anyone could determine in advance
exactly who is eligible for admission. All will agree that this is highly
desirable and the trustees should seek to meet such standards in the
formulation of rules so far as they may be practicable. But experience in
the administration of the Homes, and in the decision of many cases
presented, demonstrates that this is not always desirable. Every lawyer
is familiar with the fact that from the beginning of recorded history
when laws and rules became too rigid undue hardships resulted and
someone had to be given the power, with reasonable limitations, to make
exceptions when the facts justified them, or, as a famous English writer
once put it, to make corrections in the laws "wherein they were defective
by reason of their universality." To permit the trustees to do equity in
passing upon applications, the rules seek, so far as possible, to set up
general standards but they also recognize the power of the trustees to
exercise a wide discretion in cases where peculiar facts appear to justify
an exception to the general rules.
The exercise of this discretionary power leads occasionally to apparently conflicting decisions that are confusing when viewed as precedents,
but it is the opinion of this committee that the right to exercise such
power is salutary and necessary to avoid hardships in exceptional cases.

115

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

As an illustration, cases have arisen where an applicant. otherwise
qualified, could be provided for by compelling relatives to receive the
applicant into their homes. In cases where the relatives are required by
. law to provide for the applicant and where it appears that the applicant
can be reasonably happy, it is the policy to deny the application so
that other more pressing applications can be approved. There are cases,
however, where the facts appear to be identical. but the confidential
reports of investigators or members of the Lodges reveal the fact that
some unfortunate condition prevails in the homes of the relatives and
t~at under the circumstances the applicant should not be required to
live there. In such cases the application is granted but to the casual
observer who has no access to the reports or case histories the action
of the trustees seems to be arbitrary, discriminatory. and inconsistent
with other decisions. Such intangibles frequently dictate the course to
be followed and, in our opinion, demonstrate the need for such discretionary powers.
. Since the initiation of the Masonic Homes Program in 1890, our
ideas concerning relief have changed materially. This is a reflection of
the changed attitude of society generally toward the care of children
and of the aged. Many new factors. such as pension plans and social
security must be considered. The recent increase in the rate of divorce
has raised new and complex problems concerning the children involved.
Old i~eas regar.ding the responsibility of children for their parents have
gone mto the discard. Throughout the nation individuals and the smaller go~ernmental units are seeking constantly to shift the heavy burden
of relief to larger and richer units. It is natural that such a tendency
should affect our attitude toward the problems of Masonic Relief and
the administration and functions of the Homes.
It is our opinion that the plans as originally conceived we~e sound
and suited to the ends to be attained: that although certain minor
change~ could he made by the trustees of the Homes to clarify the rules
a_nd bnng greater certainty into the practice of passing upon applications. the great need at present is for an active program of education
to acquaint the craft with the principles involved. The time has not
yet arrived for a radical departure from established procedures.
Respectfully submitted,

Report of the Board of Control
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The report of the Board of Control must detail not only the activities
of that body but also must contain a complete outline of the work of our
Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus.
It should be pointed out that the Board of Control was created by
the Grand Lodge in 1929. In its hands is placed the authority of main, taining Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus and it is its responsibility to control. supervise and so direct their affairs that they may be
managed efficiently and economically.
This report. like those previously presented to Grand Lodge by the
Board of Control. is another testimonial to the sincerity of effort on the
part of those men who are actively engaged in the work of Masonic
Relief and Employment and represents further proof that they justify
the trust reposed in them.
We are pleased to report close harmony and cooperation existing
between the Board of Control and Boards of Relief. We believe that
there is now a more active interest within Boards of Relief and the working affairs of their organizations. That this is partly due to our frequent
meetings with them, can seem to be of little doubt. The personal contact with the members of these bodies has developed into many close
ties of friendship and understanding. Mutual problems have ·been dis.cussed and decisions reached with the complete cooperation of all.

114

CHARLES A. ADAMS
ROBERT E. HARRIS
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
ARTHUR PAULSEN
EDWARD H. SIEMS
LAURENCE K. WINN
L. HAROLD ANDERSON, Chairman

c.
October 11, 1948
Adopted.

BoARDS OF RELIEF

The Grand Lodge of California permits lodges having concurrent
jurisdiction to form Boards of Relief for _the purpose of properly relieving the distress of sojourning Masons, their widows and orphans. under
a compact to be agreed upon among themselves and approved by the
Grand Lodge or the Grand Master before becoming effective. Grand
Lodge requires that they provide a method of paying for the expense
of the work in such a manner as shall seem proper. Boards of Relief are
required to report annually showing in detail their work for the year
together with their receipts and disbursements, specifying separately
what, if any. has been expended for relief of non-affiliated Masons.
their widows and orphans. therein sojourning. of this or other jurisdictions and how much thereof. if any. has been repaid.
Such detailed reports have been made and are now on file with the
Board of Control. They show the activities and financial condition of
each of our seventeen Boards of Relief.
Our Boards of Relief are made up of 263 Lodges with a Masonic
membership of 110,600. Each Lodge is represented on the Board of Relief by Trustees selected from among their own membership. The delegates select a secretary whose duty it is to manage, under their direction.
the active operations of the Board of Relief. In matters of relief. only
temporary relief is contemplated, however, they are not restricted in

116

117

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

affording such relief as in their judgment the circumstances may warrant.
Boards of Relief are maintained by a per capita assessment agreed
upon by the trustees which is limited by the maximum set up within
their compact. They may establish employment bureaus and are required
to visit the sick, investigate and administer relief applications, and supervise all Masonic funerals of sojourning brethren in their district.
The statistical records show that they have conducted 792 funerals
during the past year, have made 3466 calls upon the sick, administered
relief or investigated 2481 cases. and handled 1380 cases involving other
types of relief, or a total of 7327 service calls.
$43,718.54 was disbursed for relief during the year.

Your attention is directed to the fact that while Grand Lodge is
committed to the policy of assisting Boards of Relief financially in the
support of Employment Bureaus, in order that they may be done on an
equitable basis, the Board of Control has set up a formula for the allocation of Grand Lodge funds for the Employment Offices. This formula
requires that receipt and expenses allocated to Employment Bureaus
roust be in like ratio, i. e., whatever percentage of total expense of a
Board of Relief is charged against Employment Bureaus, a like percentage of the total receipts shall be devoted to the Employment Bureaus,
and that Grand Lodge will not contribute an amount greater than the
local per capita allocation to Employment. excluding the revenue from
endowments, bequests, gifts, etc. The Board of Control will determine
the proportion of time and effort devoted respectively to relief and employment activities in the several Boards of Relief operating Employment Bureaus, and the operating receipts and expenses shall be allocated on the prescribed percentage basis. T hese percentages are subject
to adjustment by the Board of Control from time to time after adequate
survey demonstrates that such a change is warranted.

EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

Under the terms of the uniform compact adopted many years ago by
Grand Lodge, Boards of Relief may. with the approval of the Board of
Control, organize and operate Masonic Employment Bureaus.
Seven such offices are now operating in this jurisdiction, five under
the management of secretaries of the Boards of Relief and two, East
Bay and Los Angeles, employing a separate employment manager.
In the employment bureaus, there are 218 Lodges representing a
Masonic membership cf approximately 92,000.
During the past year our employment officers have placed 3064 in
jobs. Were we to operate our offices as commercial employment agencies,
the total fee that these people would have had to pay wuuld have
amounted to $184.665. We, therefore, believe that we can justly say
that our employment offices have saved the Masons and their families
nearly $185,000 in fees.
10,308 applications for employment were received by our offices "during the year and we had 8541 inquiries from employers seeking help.
APPROPRIATIONS

The Board of Control recommends to the Finance Committee that
the following appropriation be made for the operation of our Employment Bureaus of the several Boards of Relief for the present Masonic
year:
East Bay -··-······-············-····-···--·,-.····················$1 500.00
Fresno --·································································· 192.00
Long Beach ............................................................ 1902.00
Los Angeles ............................................................ 6000.00
Sacramento ............................................................ 750.00
San Diego ................................................. _.............. 1851.00
San Francisco ........................................................ 1500.00
TOTAL .........................................................- ..$13,695.00
The Board of Control further recommends that these amounts be
furnished Boards of Relief for their Employment Bureaus, 50% at once
~nd 50% at the end of the fiscal half year (February 1, 1949).

REIMBURSEMENTS

The Board of Control recommends to the Finance Committee that
the following Boards of Relief be reim'bursed in the amounts set opposite
their names, for relief extended to sojourning Masons, their widows and
orphans, during the past Masonic year.
1. Sacramento Board of Relief...................................................... $20.00
Member of Peoria Lodge No. 15 Peoria, 111.............................
10.00
Member of Morrilton Lodge No. 105, Morrilton, Ark.............
10.00
2. San Francisco Board of Relief..................................................$125.00
Member of La Logia Progreso Lodge No. 1, Nicaragua
TOTAL ·······-····-·······--···--····· -···························-········.···-St 45.00
Every reasonable effort has been made to secure repayment through
customary sources without avail.
During the year, as already mentioned in the report, approximately
$44,000 was paid out by our Boards of Relief. Of this amount, all but
$145 mentioned above was repaid to the Boards by the individual
Brother, who had received aid, his lodge or his Grand Jurisdiction.
The recommendation for reimbursement by the Board of Control is
not to be interpreted as indicating that our cases of financial assistance
are made in the form of a loan. Boards of Relief do not operate in that
manner. When relief is needed and the applicant has established his
Masonic affiliation, then relief is granted willingly, wisely and kindly
and no mention, directly or indirectly, is made as to the return of the
amount advanced. No notes are signed. no promises accepted. Should
the Brother choose voluntarily to return the amount of the relief extended, he simply returns that which, at some future time, will be
available for some other worthy Brother, his widow or orphans.

119

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

When relief is extended to a Brother of another jurisdiction, it is our
interpretation of our obligation that we are acting on behalf of that
Brother's lodge and, therefore, we communicate with his lodge, giving
all of the details of the case and ask that they reimburse us in the amount
advanced. In most cases, we actually receive the lodge's authorization
prior to advancing the money needed. This proceedure is also true in
relief cases involving lodges within our own jurisdiction.
With Grand Lodge standing behind our relief program in returning
uncollectible items, to lodges and Boards of Relief, we feel that we
have thus eliminated the possibility of anyone administering relief in a
niggardly manner or in amounts not sufficient to the occasion. ·

were invited to attend. Four of our Employment Offices and five Boards
of Relief were represented. The Board of Control voted to recommend
to the Grand Master approval of the application of Travelers Lodge No.
692 to join the Sacramento Board of Relief.

118

BOARD OF CONTROL

The Board of Control, as established by Grand Lodge, is made up
of five members, each appointed for a term of three years. Your present
Board, as has been the custom, were appointed from all sections of the
State, from San Diego, Los Angeles, Fresno, San Francisco and Sacramento. This territorial selection is not accidental but is a part of the
overall plan whereby the Board can work in dose contact with the
Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus. By this plan, there is at
least one member of the Board of Control accessible to every Relief and
Employment office. The value of this form of selecting members for the
Board has proved the farsighted wisdom of our Grand Lodge and its
Grand Masters, in that important decisions can be made without loss
of time.
Since last Grand Lodge, the Board of Control has met in San Diego
and Sacramento. The Board is in session during this Grand Lodge in
Room 414, which is the Board of Relief and Employment office of San
Francisco. We invite you to bring your relief and employment prob·
lems to us.
The meeting in San Diego was held on January 16th, 17th and
18th and all Boards of Relief and Employment Offices of Southern California were invited to attend with their delegations. Specific times were
set on our agenda for each Board of Relief and sufficient time alloted for
an adequate hearing. Six Boards of Relief attended the meeting and
three employment offices were represented. The members of the Board of
Control were the guests of the San Diego County Masonic Officers
Association at a dinner meeting at which they were given the opportunity of hearing M. W. Claude H. Morrison explain some of the work
done by Boards of Relief and the San Diego Board of Relief in particular.
The chairman of the Board of Control was afforded an opportunity to
address the gathering on the functions and responsibilities of the Boards
of Relief and the Board of Control.
On May 14, 15 and 16, the Board of Control met in Sacramento.
All _Boards of Relief and Employment Offices of Northern California

One year ago, the Board of Control decided upon a uniform method
of handling the records of our Employment Offices. This system proved
simple, efficient and economically sound and lends itself to rapid and
accurate audit. Realizing the value of reports that are comparable, the
Board of Control continued its study of record keeping and on August
1st, 1948, extended the system to all Boards of Relief. A complete set
of instructions covering the method to be used under the new system
was prepared in pamphlet form which is called "Standard Practice
Bulletin for Masonic Boards of Relief and Employment Service." When
the proceedures as outlined in this folder are followed, the financial data,
statistics on employment . accumulated at each office and the reports
therefrom will be uniform and comparable. The data recorded and the
substantiating documents will be maintained in a manner which will
make it feasible to audit the transaction of each office with a minimum
amount of work. The folder containing the instructions and explanatory matter is made up of twelve bulletins of twenty-five pages and
contains twenty-one illustrations of required and optional forms to be
used. The Board of Control feel that this is an important step in the
direction of efficiency and economy.
For the past several years, the Board of Control has recognized
the fact that the uniform compact and by-laws under which Boards of
Relief operated were not meeting the requirements of present day usage.
Over a period of time, minor changes had been approved so that they
were no longer uniform. Some Boards of Relief were operating under
compacts and by-laws drawn up and approved long before the adoption
by Grand Lodge of the Uniform Compact and By-laws. Two years
ago, the Board of Control began to give serious thought to this problem.
Committees were appointed and after many meetings and volumes of
correspondence a complete new "Uniform Compact and By-laws" has
been prepared for the operation of Boards of Relief and Employment
Bureaus. An effort has been made to retain all the desired provisions
which experience has indicated will make them more comprehensive
under present conditions. Additional study of this matter is planned
and it is hoped that it will be completed during the coming year.

MASONIC BREAKFASTS

Representatives of the Board of Control have attended the Masonic
Breakfasts in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Long Beach, Sacramento,
East Bay. Fresno and San Diego.

120

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

APPRECIATION

Report of the Committee on Accounts
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In accordance with the provisions of our Grand Lodge Constitution,
your Committee is pleased to report that it has met regularly each
month in the office of the Grand Secretary and has audited and approved
all bills, claims and demands presented to it by the Grand Secretary,
which in our opinion, were proper charges against the funds of this
Grand Lodge.
Fraternally submitted,
WILLIAM E. BOUTON, Chairman
GEORGE D. HORN
GEORGE D. GAVIN
ANGUS HOLDEN
HAROLD KLINGER
WALTER E. SANNER
CHAS. C. TROWBRIDGE, JR.
Adopted.

The report of the Board of Control would not be complete were we
to close without expressing our appreciation to the Grand Master and
his Grand Lodge officers for their sincere interest in our work and their
many helpful suggestions. To Lloyd Wilson, Grand Secretary, and his
assistants for their co-operation; to Brother Wilson, personally, for his
inspiring words on our behalf at the Sacramento Breakfast; and to our
many past Grand Masters to whom we have turned for understanding
aid in many complex problems.
The work of the Board of Control is made most pleasant by the
friendly cooperation of the Secretaries of our Boards of Relief and the
Managers of our Employment Offices. Their's is a labor of love. To know
them as we do is to realize this and their records are evidence of their
achievements.
During the past year we have met with many of the trustees and directors. We are indebted to them for the time and effort they have put
into the work of Masonic Relief and Employment. The lodges have
chosen well in selecting them for this work and once again the proper
~ management of their offices is evidence of authority well placed.
CONCLUSION
We submit this report to Grand Lodge with the feeling that this
year as 'before, our Boards of Relief have given a good account of themselves. Relief cases have been handled wisely, judiciously and with the
utmost of Masonic kindness. Employment has been found for hundreds of our brethren and members of their families.
The Board of Control is proud of the administration, management,
efficiency and economy of the system by which Masonic Relief is conducted in the Jurisdiction of California. We do not fear its comparison
with that of any other Grand Jurisdiction.
It is our aim to continue to so perfect the work of our Boards of Relief
and Employment Offices that California Masons will point with pride
to the work being done for all distressed worthy Brother Master
Masons, their widows and orphans.
Respectfully submitted,
JACK C. BUTLER, Chairman
JOHN T. MARTIN
Guy A. TOLLE
HARRY F. WHITE
L. HAROLD ANDERSON
Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

121

Report of Masonic Temple Association of California
Incorporated
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Following is a summary of receipts and disbursements of the Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc., for the fiscal year ending·
September 30, 1948:
RECEIPTS
October 1, 1947-Balance (cash and securities)----··--·····-:-·-$
$202,154.71
From-rentals ·---····-.············-·················································· 59,191.00
interest and dividend&.....--·························'-····-··········-· 10,350.92
sale of power ······-·······-·················································- 2.532.20
sale of junk, etc.·--·-·----·····-·····················-·-··-46.00
unidentified funds in aurplus..... ..--···················--·····-···
629.25
72,749.37
274,904.08
DISBURSEMENTS
Taxes, real estate.
---------··-- 9,727.10
Taxes, social security, old age beneflL-----···-···········--···270.28
182.35
Taxes, unemployment reserve..·---···-········-·························Taxes, withholding ····-···········-·---·--·-·-··············-··················· 1.420.96
Salaries ···········-············································-·····-···-················- 15,911.59

5~~d~~d~···=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::.:..::::::::::::::::::~~::::=::::: ~:~j~:~~

Power costs ··········-······---·-·-······················--······················- 1,497.08
Charges against eurplus....-··-······-·-···············-······-····--·14.82
Cost of repair to building to date·-··--'."···-··-····---·- 13,050.00

61.166.39

Balance on hand Sept. 30, 1948 (cash and securities) ..............-.................... $213,737.69

Adopted.
At 5:05 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A. M.
Tuesday.

122

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

used. but to the greatest skeptic it should prove that our program is a
substantial one, that the sum raised has been done painlessly and purely on an educational basis awakening the Craft to their opportunities
in providing an income for our Homes for all times. Our individual shareholders in this great work are continually increasing. The great privilege of bequests by those seeking such opportunities is being awakened
throughout the Jurisdiction. A:ll in all. we feel our program has been
substantial, on a firm foundation and is opening up vistas far beyond the
sight of human conception.
The growth of this living testimonial has been made possible by the
keen interest of our splendid Masters throughout the Jurisdiction. This
is evidenced by the continued individual Lodge contributions. Your
Board sincerely appreciates their splendid work with the cooperation of
the Secretaries and other officers of the constituent Lodges. The Inspectors have aided materially and rendered invaluable assistance in our
program. We are particularly grateful for ·their cooperation, but more
especially to the Most Worshipful Grand Master who has given us
wise counsel, valiant support and untiring efforts in behalf of this great
project.
'
The work of the Board has been carried on at a minimum of expense.
This has been possible by the vast amount of voluntary manpower and
personal effort by all concerned.
The Board this year approved the securing of an excellent set of
35 mm. Kodachrome pictures of our two Homes. These pictures will be
available, with proper explanatory information, for showing in the
various Lodges through the Jurisdiction.
lt is also believed this is an appropriate year to present a visual picture of this report with the hope that it will tell a more detailed story
than is possible through words. With this thought in mind, we present
the following graphs, which are self-explanatory. We have nothing but
hearty approval for the program which has been carried out throughout
the years. We solicit a sustaining interest by every member of the Craft,
by each officer of the Constituent Lodges, by the Inspectors and all
Grand Lodge officers, to the end that what Masons started a hundred
years ago all may have a part in its completion.

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1948

Grand Lodge was called on 9:30 A.M. the Grand Master Presiding.
The Grand Chaplain invoked the blessing of God.
Gerald Fuller Thomas, P.M., Fresno Lodge No. 247, presided in
the East at the entrance of the Grand Lodge Oflkers.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday,
October 11. were read and approved.
Brother Grand A. Schroter, P.M. and Secretary of Western Star
Lodge No. 2, was escorted to the East by direction of the Grand Master
and there greeted by him.
The Grand Master called attention to the costume of Brother
Schroter and other points of his appearance, all typical of the early days
of California and explained that he had personally invited Brother
Schroter to be present as the guest of Grand Lodge in honor of the
part played by him in celebrating the Centennial of that Lodge.

Report of Masonic Homes Endowment Board

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
It is with unusual pleasure that your Masonic Homes Endowment
Board presents herewith their sixteenth annual report covering the
period from August 1, 1947, to July 31, 1948, inclusive.
The Masonic Homes Endowment Board was created by action of
Grand Lodge (Constitution and Ordinances, Article V) and consists
of fifteen members. The purpose of such a Board was to enlighten the
Brethren regarding the work and needs of the Homes, and to afford an
opportunity to make contributions for their support. In short, the purpose of the Board is, "to study, devise, and carry out plans for the
securing of adequate endowment for the Masonic Homes of California."
The personnel of the present Board and the indicated date of the expiration of their appointment is as follows:
1948
Frank M. Smith
Robert B. Gaylord
Edmund A. Lockett
Henry G. Hill
Clovis J. Robert

123

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1949
Rollie W. Miller
Reynold E. Blight
Carl E. Miller
Omo E. Tyler
A. W. Carlson

1950
Ernest G. Bashor
Raymond Taylor
James T. Fraser
Ira D. Wheeler
Lester A. Price

The officers of the Board are:
Ernest G. Bashor, Chairman
Francis V. Keesling, Treasurer

Robert B. Gaylord, Vice Chairman
Lloyd E. Wilson, Secretary

It has been well established that it requires vision for the accomplishment of any real purpose. The vision of the pioneers in this work is now
materializing into a reality. From a few thousand dollars our Endowment
Fund is well past the Three Million Dollar mark. We realize this is
inadequate for the maintaining of our Homes, since only the income is

124

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

125

IOI TIE ENDOWMENT FIU HAS GROWN

COllTRIBllTIOMS THRODCH LODGES

111,111-----------l-l--4---1.-l--__j__

r

_J

1931 lS35 1m 1931 ma 11.1!1 l!Mll 1141 1942 1143 1944 1945 194& 1m 1948
I I
t\\." 1

IEllESTS

COST If DPtlHllN

OF TIE MASONIC IOMES

Ill.Ill

II.Ill
II.Ill

..

JI.Ill

11,111

ii.Ill

41.111

J

1---------------111.111

II.Ill
!I.Ill

\

'

/\

Y1

-

IV

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

1946
$179,525.95

1947
$186,398.55

HONORABLE MENTION

1948
$187,588.26

INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTORS

1946
40,656

1947
43,708

1948
47,714

TESTAMENTARY GIFTS

Bequests of cash have been received as follows, up to July 31. 1948:
Estate of:
Walter D. Adriance···-····--····-··•··---·-···--········-·-··- ··-·--·-··-······-··.$ 21,748.31

~!a!w~::::::::::::::::_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::: 1.ggg:g~
Charles W. Buck.......•..·-··········-··········-····················-··········-················-··· 17,034.52

~~~~}~~~1~~~~~ : ~!i!

Theresa Jo~n.·-······-··-····;·················-··················································· 10,323.54

~=:di.cR:::~tZ:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2.ggg:gg

Edward E. Lancaster..·-·····························································--··-··········· 20,123.28
Mary B. MacLafferty..·-······························-··-··········-··············-··-··-·······
558.60
Jennie Mc:Comns.•....._..........-······················-······-····························-·········
500.00
James W. McDonald...- ..······-·"'·················----········-··-··-····-··········--·-····· 12,919.94
Catherine Oliver--·-····-········-----·-············-··-····-······-············-······-····· 7,676.32
Francis E. Ryder••·--··························-····-··········-··········-···························

Rose Rosenberg...-.....·-··-··············-··-··················-··············-·····················

514.53
1,062.00

Henry A. Thonipson...-·-··········-··-··················-··········-················--·-·······
Tonningsen Trust.·--·····--··-·-····-··---·-·"'""················-··········-······-···
Henry F. Whittier..--··--·-··························-······································-·····
Frederick G. Wranghel.................·-········-············-····················-···········

2,000. 70
5,886.77
957.60
250.00

~!~eSh~:i~=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

l~~:g~

Total ---·-··-··-·············-··-··-··-··-······--·-··-··········--·-··-··-······-··.$205,806.99
MEMORIALS

John E. Bokelund
Mrs. J. B. Codd
Mrs. E. J. Erler
Charles C. Forgee
Lewis C. Glick
Olaf J. Heinemann
Ida May Jennings
Walter P. Johnson
Thayer Krolik
Timothy W. McCarthy
R. E. McDonald
George P. McNear

127

Fred E. Pelton
William F. Peters
John F. Petit
Asa F. Potter
Mrs. George E. Riddle
H. R. Riddle
Harold E. Shugart
Ben Silvey
Mrs. Nina Smith
Blanche A. Williams
Mrs. V. H. Willson
David Wisnom

...

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per mem#
ber. (Such contributions were made by 76 Lodges) :
No.
Lodge
Members Total
3 Tehama .................................................................................... 677
$1,355.00
1,301.10
21 Hawaiian ................................................................................ 479
26 El Dorado ................................................................................ 223
715.50
2,312.50
35 San Diego -····································-································-···- 893
1,424.10
58 Union ...................................................................................... 663
128 Visalia ...................................................................................... 496
1,153.50
1,408.59
178 Phoenix ···················································-······························· 636
196 San Simeon ............................................................................ 110
248.50
201 Silveyville ..........................:................................................... 144
351.85
202 Pentalpha ................................................................................ 570
1,462.50
208 Rio Vista.................................................................................. 146
322.02
214 San Buenaventura ................................................................ 384
1,015.50
221 Inyo .......................................................................................... 154
333.00
241 Santa Ana .............................................................................. 538
1,085.16
242 Magnolia.................................................................................. 374
1,025.00
1,250.00
273 Anchor ····-··-····-··-························-····································· 483
1,139.00
278 So. California ···-··································································· 515
440.50
279 Hanford .................................................................................. 197
287 Winnedumah .......................................................................... 170
358.75
291 Santa Paula ............................................................................ 307
621.75
1,549.50
320 South Gate ···--··················-······-···········--:............................. 668
329 Vallee de France.................................................................... 117
240.00
330 Kilauea .................................................................................... 241
506.00
332 San Pedro ................................................................................ 517
1,384.50
346 Palo Alto .................................................................................. 621
1,251.00
835.00
352 Sunset ···············-····································································· 406
358 Golden State .......................................................................... 883
2,498.30
368 Unity ........................................................................................ 577
1,173.50
326.00
377 Artesia ·····-················································-··-··-····················· 136
378 Mizpah .................................................................................... 433
2,018.07
379 Fillmore .................................................................................. 218
537.50
383 Orosi ........................................................................................ 126
617.00
409 Honolulu .................................................................................. 328
823.50
415 Silver Trowel ........................................................................ 363
807.50
433.00
416 Lindsay ·······-·-······································································· 207
424 Exeter ...................................................................................... 190
398.50
438 Acacia ...................................................................................... 58
132.00
850.00
452 San Pasqual ····-····································································· 418
467 Culver City ............................................................................ 299
731.00
470 Lincoln .................................................................................... 332
810.50
482 Clarence E. Smith ................................................................ 361
731.00
483 Bell .......................................................................................... 542
1,110.95
493 Atascaderi .............................................................................. 100
415.13
506 Mount Olive ............................................................................ 993
2,409.50
522 Sunrise .................................................................................... 304
632.95
535 Alexander Hamilton ............................................................ 211
600.00
558 Point Firmin .......................................................................... 361
743.50
566 James A. Garfield ................................................................ 206
519.13
576 El Cajon Valley....._............................................................... 186
371.00
584 Harding .................................................................................... 227
500.00
777.65
585 Manchester ············································-·-··-··-··················· 343
589 Kauai ...................................................................................... 126
467.00
593 All States ................................................................................ 491
1,295.00
598 Pearl Harbor .......................................................................... 514
1,207.00
599 Carmelita ................................................................................ 289
671.50
649.00
600 Lynwood ---·········································································-··· 324

128
No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

Members

Ii~~~~~;-~;~~~~-~~~:~~~:~~=~~~ ru

614
623
628
632
633
636
637
642
·------·················································--··················
650
657
660
675 Altadena ----·········--··-······················-······················- -------·····-678 Carmel ---------·-····---·--·---··-····- ···--·----········---····-··-·----······
680
-------····----·--···- ·-·--···-----···----··- -·-----------·-------···
682 ~~~~ ~-------··--·····--·············-·······--···-····--······-··-······-·
685
...- .......................................................................
688
690
691
694

199

~g; ~~=::=:.=:==~:~=-=-=-==== m
0

353
349
123
210
268

~t&;~~:=~~~~=~~~~=::;:: 1U

Total
888.00
1,294.00
538.00
1,017.75
1,046.00
965.00
738.00
788.75
548.77
1,291.65
258.00
991.50
736.06
307.50
427.25
584.50
386.00
304.00
400.00
114.18

ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chairman.

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

129

Report of Special Committee on
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This special committee begs to report as follows :
The Grand Master appointed this special committee to assist him,
among other things. in executing Recommendations 1 and 4 of the Report of the Special Committee on George Washington Masonic National Memorial in 1947. which were adopted at the Niney-eighth Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
Resolutions were prepared and, in the presence of all members of
this committee except Arthur S. Crites, P. G. M., who was confined to
his hotel room because of an infected ear, were ably, carefully and
earnestly presented by our Grand Master at the Thirty-eighth Annual
Convention of the George Washington Masonic National Memorial
~ssociation at Alexandria, Virginia, on February 23, 1948, with provisions and results as follows:
1.
Resolution to Amend the Articles of Incorporation of said association so as to admit to active, voting membership the following bodies :
(a) The General Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons.
( b) The General Grand Council of Royal and Select Masters.
( c) The Grand Encampment of Knights Templa~.
( d) The Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite of the Southern Jurisdiction.
( e) The Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite of the Northern Jurisdiction.
( f ) The Imperial Council of the Ancient Arabic Order Nobles of
the Mystic Shrine.
This resolution required a two-thirds vote, but it was defeated on
roll call by a vote of 24 in favor of it to 25 against it.
·

2.
Resolution to Amend the By-laws of said association to increase
the members of the Board of Directors from 21 to 27, by adding one
member from each of the Brand Bodies listed in (a) to ( f) . inclusive.
under Paragraph 1 above, and to provide for zoning the United States
into 21 districts. with a member of the Board of Directors to be selected
from each district by the Grand Lodges.
In ·t he light of the vote on the resolution under Paragraph 1 above,
wisdom dictated that this resolution be withdrawn, and our Grand
Master, after counseling with this committee, withdrew it.

130

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

3.
Resolution to add a new section to the By-laws of said association
to provide for the selection of a Si:ate Chairman by each Grand Jurisdiction for the term of one year, whose duty it shall be to actively represent said association in his jurisdiction and promote its interest therein.
This resolution was adopted by acclamation.

4.
Resolution providing that the funds and monies of the Endowment
Fund of said association be invested only in bonds issued by the United
States of America.
This resolution was adopted by acclamation.

*

*

*

*

*

*

Brother Richard A. Kem, Past Grand Master of Masons in Pennsylvania, chairman of a committee, presented a resolution providing
as follows:
That a Central Ways and Means Committee, over which the President shall preside, be established, consisting of one member, to be
appointed by the President, from each of the ten regional districts
listed below: that a representative from each Grand Lodge in each
regional district be appointed also by the President to serve for one
year, constituting a Regional Ways and Means Committee; that each
member of the Central Ways and Means Committee be the Chairman
of the Regional Ways and Means Committee in the regional district
from which he was appointed, and that the latter committee in each
regional district meet at the call of the respective chairman: that the
function of the Regional Ways and Means Committee shall be to conduct a publicity campaign in its area for the purpose of raising funds
with which to complete, maintain and endow the memorial; and that
the Central Ways and Means Committee shall meet annually in Washington, D. C., on the day preceding the annual meeting of the association to receive reports from its members and make future plans.
The ten Regional Districts are as follows:
I. Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, and Connecticut.
II. New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
District of Columbia.
Ill. Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia.
IV. Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, T~nessee.
V. Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, West Virginia, Kentucky.
VI. Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico.
Vll. Missouri, Arkansas, Kansas, Colorado.

.,..

'

131

VIII. Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, North Dakota, South Dakota,
Nebraska.
IX. Washington, Oregon, Montana, Wyoming, Idaho.
X. California, Nevada, Utah, A.rizona.
On roll call, this resolution was adopted by a vote of 36 to 11.
The California resolution under Paragraph 3 above was later
adopted, which has the effect of changing the foregoing (Kern) resolution to the extent that the Grand Master in each Grand Jurisdiction
will appoint the State Chairman (not representative) instead of the
President of the association.
The President of the association has appointed William B. Ogden,
P. G. M., a member of the Central Ways and Means Committee and
designated him as Chairman of the Regional District No. X. Our Grand
Master has appointed John R. Moore, P. G. M., as State Chairman of
the Grand Jurisdiction of California.
From the foregoing report, it will be observed that this committee-as the California Delegation at Alexandria, Virginia- was not completely successful in executing the recommendations of this Grand
Lodge, although the delegation labored diligently with the Board of
Directors collectively and individually, and campaigned at length among
the Grand Masters from the several states. Originally, the Grand
Bodies listed in (a) to ( e) under Paragraph 3 above were active members of this association and have made large contributions toward the
memorial, but for invalid reasons or for no reason at all they were
dropped from membership at the time of reorganization. To correct this
injustice we earnestly 1:ontend that ·they ought to be restored to active
membership and that we should continue our campaign to restore them,
believing that their reinstatement would further stimulate their interest
in the memorial resulting in material financial assistance from them and
their subordinate bodies.
One of the purposes of our Resolution No. 2 above was, of course,
to change the members of the Board of Directors of the association by
having them selected from zones throughout the United States and
thereby acquire new members with virility, stamina and enthusiasm. But
we still have the same old board, albeit some members do possess the
qualities above mentioned and even more and better ones. We believe
that the newly created Central Ways and Means Committee and the
Regional Ways and Means Committees will have a salutary effect upon
the Board of Directors and will either move them to active and effective performance or do their work for them.
Work has been done on the memorial. In 194 7, the Mystic Shrine
Rooms were finished: the room of the Mystic Order of Veiled Prophets
and the Cryptic Lodge room were almost completed: the dining room
and kitchen were completed and the kitchen equipped: and extensive

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

grading was done on the grounds. On these additions and some smaller
ones, the sum of just under $147,000.00 was expended in the year 1947,
while less than $100,000.00 was spent toward the erection of this memorial during the 5-year period from 1942 to 1946. Plans for the curren·t
year call for the expenditure of some $321,000.00 on the following installations and work: Elevator; assembly halls; bronze statute of Washington and marble base: granite steps, north and south; bronze memorial doors: stairways: Memorial Hall windows and murals: roof on
part of building: and so on.
The architect, Brother Corbett, estimated that the Memorial Building could be completed at a <:ost of $1.000,000.00, excluding landscaping, endowment and maintenance.
The architect has estimated that more than $400,000.00 will be
required to complete landscaping of memorial grounds. This committee
believes that this sum is excessive and that the Board of Directors
should give serious consideration to a substantial reduction.
Contributions to the building fund announced at recent annual conventions have been as follows: In 1946, $93,069.85: in 1947, $120,169.41: and in 1948, $208,907.54.
California, in the last two years, has raised its share of "Cain"
about the stagnancy of the memorial and the fund-raising campaign.
It is the opinion of this committee that California's activity has contributed materially to the progress indicated. It is also our opinion that
this favorable tide ought to be increased to flood by every effort possible. As a means to this end, we make the following recommendations:

I.
That a levy of fifteen cents ( l 5c) per capita be made and the proceeds placed in the George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Fund and to be remitted to the George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association as and when authorized by this Grand Lodge,
or by a committee comprised of the Grand Master, the Grand Treasurer,
and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
·

II.
That ·t he committee comprised of the Grand Master, Grand Treasurer and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance give careful consideration to withdrawing all accumulated funds in the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Fund on January 15, 1949, and
paying them to the George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Association on or before February 22, 1949.
III.
That the Grand Master advocate by appropriate means that a substantial reduction be made in the costs of landscaping the memorial
grounds.

133

IV.
That the Grand Master, by any means he may select, propose and
urge an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation of the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Association restoring to active
voting membership the Grand Bodies listed in (a} to ( e), inclusive,
under Paragraph 1 above.
Fraternally submitted,
WILLIAM B. OGDEN, Chairman
ARTHUR

s. CRITES

JOHN R. MOORE
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
Committee on Finance.
Report of Special Committee on Retirement Plan
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In order that there may be a clear understanding as to the purposes
of your Committee on Retirement, we are reviewing the activities of the
Committee since its appointment.
In his message to the Grand Lodge in 1946, Grand Master Brouillet
recommended to the Grand Lodge that some consideration be given to
setting up a retirement plan for the employees of the Masonic Homes
and other Grand Lodge employees. This recommendation was approved
by the Grand Lodge, and in accordance with that recommendation a
special Committee on Retirement was appointed' by Grand Master Moore
in 1947. This Committee consulted a well known actuary who prepared
an insurance company plan, and at the 1947 Communication of the
Grand Lodge your Committee recommended the adoption of this plan
which provided for the retirement of eligible employees of the Masonic
Homes and also employees of the Grand Lodge office staff. Owing to the
fact that in the opinion of the members of the Finance Committee the
proposed plan represented a considerable initial outlay of the funds
of the Grand Lodge as well as the funds of the Masonic Homes the
plan as proposed was not adopted, but the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes was c>uthorized to adopt a retirement plan suitable to
the needs of the employees. The continuation of the Committee on Re- ·
tirement was also authorized, and the members of the Committee were
reappointed by Grand Master Warlow.
Inasmuch as the Grand Lodge had rejected the plan which seemed
to the members of your Committee to be the most feasible and practical,

135

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

it was felt that the Committee this year could best function by assising
the Trustees of the Masonic Homes in perfecting and adopting a plan
covering the eligible employees of the Homes and by making it sufficiently broad so that other employees of the Grand Lodge, either direct
or indirect, could be covered eventually if it seemed feasible in the
judgment of the members of Grand Lodge. Accordingly. your Committee working in collaboration with the members of the Board of
Trustees has again consulted an actuary and a new plan has been prepared and is now being considered for adoption by the members of the
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes.

given us by Brother Ralph L. Low who has been very patient and painstaking in working out the various plans to fill the needs of the Grand
J..odge.
Respectfully submitted,

134

However, your Committee does not feel that the purpose for which
it was appointed has been completed with the adoption of a retirement
plan only for the employees of the Masonic Homes. By authorizing the
adoption of a plan for the employees of the Homes in the 1947 Communication, the Grand Lodge recognized the principle of providing for
retirement for eligible employees to be right and just and in fact approved
such a policy. If such a policy is right and just for the employees of the
Masonic Homes, your Committee feels that it should apply with equal
force to other employees of the Grand Lodge. In addition to the employees in the Grand Secretary's office, there are employees of the Grand
Lodge in the Club Houses at Berkeley and Los Angeles and there are
employees of the various Employment Services and Boards of Relief
who could be considered to be at least indirectly employees of the Grand
Lodge. It might be possible also to supplement the retirement plan by
receiving contributitons of the various Lodges for the retirement of their
Secretaries.
The members of your Committee are not prepared at this time to
recommend an extension of the pension plan to any of the employees
of these various classes of employees until the plan has been adopted by
the Board of Trustees and is in operation so far as the empolyees of the
Masonic Homes are concerned. However, we do believe that the Grand
Lodge has a definite responsibility so far as the other employees are
concerned, and therefore we recommend that the incoming Grand Master
be authorized to appoint a Committee on Retirement for the purpose of
giving further study with a view to supplementing the retirement plan
now under consideration by the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes by broadening it to include such other employees of Grand
Lodge, either direct or indirect, as may seem suitable and practical.
While Brother Walter _Scheffauer is not officially a member of the
Committee we have considered him as one, and he has rendered us invaluable assistance and this is acknowledged gratefully by the members
of the Committee. We acknowledge also the constructive assistance

G. TAYLOR
CLAUDE H. MORRISON
RAYMOND

....

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

Report of Special Committee on Masonic Magazines
To the Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow
Grand Master of Masons in California
and Members of Grand Lodge:
The subject of whether the Grand Lodge of California should
publish a regular magazine or bulletin for the information and education
of the membership of the constituent lodges has been under discussion
for a number of years. Also various Grand Lodge committees have made
preliminary investigations. Following the 1947 session of the Grand
Lodge, the Grand Master appointed a committee to culminate this
series of investigations and bring in a definite report and recommendation.
Your current committee has examined reports of former Grand Lodge
publication committe~s and has inspected and analyzed the publications
of the Grand Lodges of other jurisdictions. Most of these publications
appear to be of interest to the membership and of considerable value in
promoting the interests of Masonry. Also they provide an avenue by
means of which to inform the membership of the Grand Lodge concerning matters of which they are entitled to be informed-and also of matters
concerning which it is to the advantage of Grand Lodge to have the
members know.
In its investigation, this committee first considered whether it is desirable for the Grand Lodge of California to have a means of communication with the membership. The answer is obvious. Such a means of
communication through regular bulletin or magazine publication definitely would be desirable.
Secondly, if such a publication is issued by the Grand Lodge, should
it be a commercial venture including advertising, or should it be strictly
an informative bulletin. This committee is definitely of the opinion such
a venture should not be commercial and should not contain advertising,

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

but rather should adhere to the central purpose of providing a published
contact between the Grand Lodge and the membership.
The magazine business is a separate, highly specialized enterprise,
requiring considerable capital to install and operate, and calling for a
highly skilled staff in the advertising, editorial, business and mechanical
fields. This should not be the function of the Grand Lodge. Furthermore,
it is felt that members of the fraternity who are in business should not
be solicited for advertising support because of their connection with the
order. It is easily seen that aggressive solicitors could provide a source of
embarrassment for members and bring discredit on the craft.
After eliminating a magazine venture for the reasons stated above,
the committee determined that the proper publication vehicle would be
an eight page bulletin, six by nine inches in size, and printed monthly on
white paper stock.
The editorial content would be varied, and suited to the occasion
from time to time. It would contain summaries of Grand Lodge actions,
me!lsages from the Grand Master and the Grand Secretary, news of the
activities of the Grand Lodge and its officers, news of outstanding
Masonic events throughout the state, articles on Masonic education, and,
in fact, running the entire range of matters of mutual interest.
The costs of such a bulletin have been obtained in estimate form.
The committee has the detail on this from printing firms in Los Angeles
and San Francisco, but roughly they average $10 per 1,000 copies-the
equivalent of one cent per copy. To do a s:rood job it is estimated that the
editorial work should be figured at $250 per month for part time reportorial, editing and office help. A sizeable item of expense, which would
require actual operation to determine, would be the matter of postage.
This committee believes the postage expense could be held to a minimum by the Grand Lodge bulletin being sent in bundles to the constituent lodges which have regular lodge bulletins and the two bulletins
being mailed in the same envelope by each such lodge. Those lodges
which do not have bulletins may wish to cooperate by handling the mailing of the Grand Lodge bulletin, or in the event this is not forthcoming
the Grand Lodge would have to handle the mailing direct from San
Francisco. It is noted, however, that lodges without bulletins of their
own usually are in the less populated areas and thus represent a small
portion of the total membership in the state. It is believed, therefore, that
distribution to the vast majority of the membership can be accomplished
economically through the cooperation of the lodges.
In conclusion, we are aware of the wide departure from past usage
this would involve for the Grand Lodge of California, but are of the
firm belief that the expenditure, although large. would have corresponding benefits to the advancement of Masonry in California. We are grateful for the opportunity of having served, and recommend that matters

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

137

contained herein falling within the jurisdiction of other committees be
referred thereto.
Respectfully submitted,
HAMILTON L. HINTZ
JOHN M. SERVER, JR.
WILLIAM B. OGDEN, Chairman
Received.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes to Committee on Finance.

Report of the Committee on De Molay
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on De Malay welcomes this opportunity to present
to the Inspectors, Masters and Wardens attending this annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, our report of past activities and to
solicit your continued interest.
Our second year of operation finds the work started last year progressing satisfactorily, that of endeavoring to acquaint the members of
the Lodges with the fact that there is such a thing as the Order of De
Molay and that it is e>ntitled to their full support and that this Grand
Lodge has recognized the possibilities for good inherent in such an organization by forming a Committee whose duty it is to co-ordinate the
activities of the various Lodges with those of the Chapters of De Molay
and to carry information to the membership as to the needs of the Order.
Visitations and talks to the Lodges of the jurisdiction have been continued and have in many instances resulted in the volunteering of assistance in the way of Advisors and the stimulation of interest in the
work of De Malay. If the Masons of California generally, knew of the
grand work which this Order is doing among the youth of today your
Committee would not be compelled to ask for support but would be
overwhelmed by offers to help.
The communication issued by the Grand Master to the Inspectors
and Lodges of the jurisdiction was of great value, it having the direct
result of influencing a number of the members of the various Lodges to
call upon the committee for information relative to De Malay, the steps
necessary to be taken in sponsoring a Chapter of De Malay, the methods
used in selecting Advisors and other pertinent information. In this connection be it noted that it is the custom of committee members, in every
instance, to call to the attention of the inquiring member or members the
fact that the Lodge, as such, may neither sponsor a Chapter or accept
any financial responsibilities either in the formation or continuance of
its activities.
To bring the work of De Malay more strongly to the attention of the
membership: your Committee strongly recommends to the Officers of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Lodges in the jurisdiction that they arrange to have a Chapter of De
Molay exemplify one or more of their degrees, preferably at a Stated
Meeting at which dinner is served, a greater numbers of members will
be present. Any member of the Committee will be glad to make the necessary arrangements.
The Lodges in the San Diego area have given the Committeeman
in that district very .fine support, in that, by virtue of his hard work,
practically every one of them has set up a committee of its members
to work with him. An opportunity was given the San Francisco representative of the Committee to address the Master and Wardens association
on the subject of De Molay, which opportunity was much appreciated,
as is every invitation to deliver our message to the Officers and members
of the various Lodges.
Chapters in Cailifomia are in a healthy .financial condition and a
very substantial increase in membership would seem to indicate that the
messages brought to members having eligible sons making them aware
of the .fine work that De Molay is doing is. in part at least, responsible
for some of the increase. Although the increasing of membership is not a
part of the duties of your Committee we feel that each boy added to De
Molay membership is one more started on the road to good citizenship.
Many expressions of appreciation for the interest the Grand Lodge
has taken in De Molay as shown in the formation of your Committee
have come from the Deputies of the Grand Council of the Order and
Officers and members of the Chapters. They request that we convey
their thanks to the Grand Officers and members attending this Communication.
Based on our experience ·during that past two years. we .find that it
is physically impossible: for one man to adequately cover as large a territory as the San Francisco and Los Angeles area where so many Lodges
are placed and we therefore recommend that the Committee be increased
by the addition of two members. one additional for the San Francisco
area and one for the Los Angeles area.
Your Committee recommends that an appropriation in the sum of
$750.00 be made to cover the necessary expenses for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted:

Report of Committee on Masonic History Publication

138

CHARLES E. LISTENWALTER
THURMAN D. MOYERS
Kw V. SMITH
HAROLD F. BUTTERFIELD
HENRY HONAKER
WALTER FLIERi
RAYMOND
KIMBELL
WILLIAM D. WICKWIRE

s.

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

139

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
your committee on Masonic History Publication reports as f?llow~:
We have been informed by Past Grand Master Leon O. Witsell ~n
charge of the preparation and writing of the History of Masonry ID
California that it will take approximately eight and one-half months to
complete the manuscript of the said histo~ for publicati?n. .
.
This committee cannot function until the manuscript 1s completed,
at which time we will be able to have samples of binding and estimates
of the cost to present at the next annual communication of Grand
Lodge.
Respectfully submitted.
W. I. KOHNKE

J. T. BOND
A. F. HEUER

,..

Adopted and on motion the Committee was continued.

I

Report of Committee on Masonic History

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the
following report.
.
At the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge your History
Committee was authorized to prepare the manuscript of a comprehensive
history of Masonry in California. The Chairman of this Committee w_as
given supervision of the preparation and writing of the ~aid manuscript
and, pursuant to that authorization, obtained the services of Brother
Clyde Arbuckle of Liberty Lodge, No. 299. of Santa Clara. and Brother
Samuel Steelman, Senior Warden of Hollywood Lodge. No. 355, ~f
Hollywood. Brother Arbuckle was a ~embe~ of y~~r Hi~tory Committee for eight years and is well experienced ID wntlDg history. Brother
Steelman, an attorney-at-law and also a member of your History Committee. is likewise highly competent in the same field.
Before your Committee could begin the actual writing of the manuscript, however, it was necessary to catalog and index the vast amou~t
of material that has been gathered over a period of twenty-years. This
work alone took very close to three-months and has been subject to no
small amount of subsequent supplement.
The resultant indices consist of three large volumes of standard
typewritten pages. The .first, covering Major Edwin A. Sherman's Fifty
Years of Masonry in California, consumes sixty-three full pages. The

140

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

second covers the voluminous material taken from Lodge minutes, general records, trial records. bills. and correspondence by Brother Charles
Ingram over a period of two years, during which he was continuously
employed for that purpose. It consumes two-hundred pages. The third
is a general index of two-hundred and eighteen pages covering over
one-hundred printed volumes (including the Grand Lodge Proceedings).
seventy-five scrapbooks, the numerous published and typewritten histories of individual Lodges, thousands of letters and notes, and a large
volume of miscellaneous memoranda.
In indexing this material your Committee found literally hundreds of
gaps. omissions. and errors that needed filling and correction. It also
found in published works gross inaccuracies that have long been accepted as fact-statements that did not even remotely agree with Lodge
minutes and records .. This has necessitated an inordinate amount of
time-consuming correspondence with Grand and Subordinate Lodges
and individual Masons throughout the entire United States, to say
nothing of the meticulous double checking of almost every item in order
to insure a strict adherence to truth. As a result. your Committee has not
progressed so rapidly toward completing its manuscript as it at first
anticipated. But it does feel that once the work is complete, it will stand
the most critical examination.
The collection of this material began in 1928, when Grand Master
Will H. Fischer revived the virtually dormant Committee on Masonic
History for the purpose of perpetuating the story of Masonry in California. Today the objective of this Committee is about two-thirds
achieved. Besides gathering and indexing all the necessary data. it has in
its files completed manuscripts of the following chapters:
Seafaring Men-the story of the first Masons to come to California
-11,000 words.
Wayfaring Men-the story of the pioneer Masons who came across
mountain, plain. and desert to California before the American Conquest
-50,000 words.
"But the Greatest of These"-a comprehensive account of Masonic
relief and charity before the coming of the Widows and Orphans Home
-30.000 words.
In addition to these are the Sacramento Valley District and the
Southern California District. Both of these are chronological histories of
the Lodges in their respective parts of the State. are practically complete,
and will run about 120,000 words each. Morever. work is progressing
rapidly on the Lodges of the Mother Lode District, whose intensely interesting stories come down to us from the Gold Rush days.
In order to facilitate this work, your Committee has divided the State
into nine great districts. each with a Masonic background almost peculiar
unto itself and ranging from three to eleven counties apiece. Besides the

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

141

previously mentioned Sacramento Valley, Southern California, and
Mother Lode districts, they are:
The Northern California District, extending northward from the
Sacramento Valley and the Mother Lode to the Oregon line.
The Northern Coast Countie-s, extending southward along the coast
from the Oregon line to Sonoma County.
The San Francisco Bay District, embracing the six metropolitan area
counties on San Francisco Bay.
The Central Coast Counties, extending southward along the coast
from Santa Cruz County to San Luis Obispo County.
The San Joaquin Valley District, embracing all the counties of the
San Joaquin Valley.
The Eastern Central Counties, which includes only Alpine, Inyo. and
Mono counties.
Chapters in tentative outline, but yet to be fritten, include those
on the Northern California, Northern Coast, San Francisco Bay, Central Coast, San Joaquin Valley, and Eastern Central districts as well as
the following special chapters:
The Conquest of California, showing how Masons participated in
conquering California and annexing it to the United States.
The Constitution Convention, wherein Masons were most influential
in organizing the government of this State.
The Organization of Grand Lodge.
The Gold Rush Days, during _which Masons helped to establish
civilization and law and order from one end of the diggings to the other.
The Civil War Period, showing how Masons saved California for the
Union.
The Reconstruction Period, in which Masons helped to rebuild the
nation and rekindle the spirit of brotherly love between Northerner and
Southerner.
Masonry Among the Indians, revealing how the Redman acquired
Masonic lore and understood the use of Masonic signs and symbols.
Mcrsonic Humor, amusing accounts of such humorists as Mark
Twain, John Phoenix, and innumerable other droll characters with
Masonic connections.
Colorful Characters, portraying such unforgettable brothers as William Bull Meek, John Adolphus Fisher, Judge William B. Almond,
"Mountain Charlie" McKiernan, etc.
Morals and Conduct, showing how Masonry restrained the transgressor and improved the morality and behavior of brethren in a wild,
new country, particularly in the gold region.
Evolution of the Ritual, the story of how the California Ritual, starting with a hodgepodge of work from several jurisdictions, gradually
evolved to its present form.

143

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Special Degrees, outdoor degrees, unusual ceremonies, etc.
Native California Masons, the stories of Spanish Californians who
joined the Craft, and how one of them, Romualdo Pacheco, became
governor of the State.
Sojourning Brethren, relating how m'a ny distinguished brothers from
other jurisdictions such as Mark Twain, William Tell Coleman, Samuel
Addison Bishop, and Will Rogers contributed much to California's culture and welfare but for reasons best known to themselves did not affiliate
here.
Long Tenure, a record of faithful brethren continuously serving their
Lodges in one or more offices over a long period of years.
Long Membership, stories of brethren wh~ have been Masons over
fifty years and upward to sixty and seventy-five years.
Lodges of Other Jurisdictions, an account of Lodges in Oregon,
Nevada and Arizona organized under the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of California prior to the organization of the Grand Lodges of
their respective States.
Territorial Lodges, a study of the establishment and growth of Masonry in the Hawaiian and Philippine Islands under the jurisdiction of
the Grand Lodge of California.
·
California Brethren Abroad, the record of California Masons who
have distinguished themselves as Grand Masters, Grand Secretaries, etc.
of other states and territories.
A good deal of this material is already in rough outline, but its conversion to manuscript would be greatly facilitated if all later day Lodj:Jes
that feel they have little of interest in their histories would send it, what
little they do have. As it is, your Committee estimates that the finished
work will comprise four volumes of 500 pages each, averaging 325 words
to the page, with one-hundred and twenty-five 5 x 7 inch cuts and an index of not less than one-hundred pages.
At the last Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, $11 ,000.00 was
appropriated to this Committee to defray the costs of writing and preparing the manuscript of this work for publication. Of this sum approximately $7,767.00 will have been expended by October 15 of this year,
leaving an unexpended balance of $3,233.00. ( $457.00 of the expended
sum was for office equipment, furniture, etc.-a non-recurrent capital
expenditure.) But judging from its experience, progress, and necessary
costs incurred to date your Committee is now certain it will take to the
middle of 1949 to complete its work and that another appropriation will
be necessary. It estimates that approximately $6,720.00 will be needed to
carry on its work during this extended period beginning October 17,
1948, to June 30, 1949--which will allow ample time for publication
before the Centennial Odservance of the organization of the Grand
Lodge of this State in 1950.

Therefore, your Committee offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
Resolved:
( 1 ) That the work of the Committee on Masonic History in compiling the history of Masonry in California be continued.
( 2) That the sum of $6,720.00 be appropriated and set aside for the
use of the said Committee for the completion of the manuscript of the
aforesaid history.

142

Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0 . WHITSELL
CHARLES R. INGRAM
WILSON E. NEWLON
THOMAS NORRIS
DAVID TULLOCH
}AMES M. BARKLEY
RoY L. HAGLUND
ALEX C. KRATER
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
JOHN T. BOND
SAMUEL STEELMAN
0THMER JOHN WOHLGEMUTH
RICHARD E. GIESIN

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

145

Report of Correspondence Committee
Conspectus

SPECIAL NOTICE
The correspondence report, 306 pages, is too
long for inclusion in this Book of Proceedings.
The table of contents and the statistics are
being included here on the following pages.
Copies of the Report have gone to all Lodges
in this jurisdiction and two copies have gone
to all Grand Lodges.
A copy will be sent to any person forwarding
a request to the Grand Secretary, Masonic
. Temple, 25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco
2, California.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Early in this Masonic year our Most Worshipful Grand Master,
through the agency of our M. W. Grand Secretary, sent summons to
seven members of the Craft, and bade them travel. some east, some west,
some north and some south, in search of the most recent word regarding
Masonic labor and its welfare.
Accordingly we met by appointment, using the correspondence route
as the means of travel, arranged our calendar in six divisions, in order
that the Foreman of the project, might accompany each severally on his
journey about our American domain.
Each traveler was given certain sections or states to cover, figuratively speaking, in his month's sojourn among friendly people.
When this commandment of our Grand Master had been accomplished, the Foreman or Overseer of the enterprise, set out alone to visit
foreign parts. His travels took him from the far frozen recesses of Canada to Mexico and even to the Antarctic regions where he found Brother
Masons in earnest convocation.
The long arm of Freemasonry carried him to Guam, Okinawa, the
Philippines, China and Australasia. India and the western European
countries were visited.
We reached the United Grand Lodge of England to mourn with our
British Brethren, the passing of their M. W. The Grand Master, the
Earl of Harewood, and to witness the installation in his high office of
the new Grand Master, His Grace, the Duke of Devonshire, by His Majesty The King, Past Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge of England. We marked with sorrow, the passing of our M. W. Bro. H. M.
King Christian of Denmark, Past Grand Master, and noted with profound regret the tragic death of R. W. Bro. H. R. M. Prince Gustaf
Adolf of Sweden, who held high office in that country as Deputy Grand
Master.
This globe encircling journey has been one of high privilege. Our
acquaintanceship has flourished. We have basked in the radiance of
Masonic luminaries from shore to shore of almost every land, as we
sought to lift our vision in the vast outreach. We have formed a rich
value of the new found friends as they extended the hand of Masonic
companionship, in the bond of mutual service and understanding.
True it is, that we have shuddered at times because of the lack of
proper precautions in spreading upon the printed page the esoteric teachings so dear to the Masonic heart. It was and is, our earnest hope that
the eyes of the profane behold not what our eyes have seen.
Our confessed inexperience as a reviewer of affairs Masonic, has
caused our mediations to query the source and usage of such words as
"Sister Lodges," and "Sister Jurisdictions." As much as we cherish our

147

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

own beloved sisters. we would enjoy much more the substitution of the
word "Brother." -Custom becometh usage, as ~e all well know.

Our story is told. Our preface is ended. Had we said that, had we
done this, so might we gain, so might we miss. We leave our diary, so
filled with the richest of morsels, in your hands. The overseer greatly
is indebted to the travelers who accompanied him on his way. Over land
and sea we figuratively followed the course plotted by our Grand Master
and Grand Secretary.
We trust that each of you will derive as much pleasure and food from
its pages as came to us during its several months of preparation.

146

.

Among our newly found and valued friends are certain ones who
stretch a scornful finger at California's style of "topical review," much
preferring their own effective style of editorial comment. So rich in
philosophical wealth are many of these Correspondence reports that we
regret our lack of time and space to bring them to you. We are tolerant
enough to ~e~ their value-but we prefer best our own established style
of presentation.

JAMES K. FISK,
FREDERICK 0. EATON,
NEWCOMB CONDEE,
HERBERT G. POLHILL,
LYNN H. HOSTETTER,
ELWOOD D. BoNA,
OscAR C. OLSEN.

To go back a moment to "Sister or Brother Jurisdictions or Lodges,"
our avid reader~students will note that we have forgone the usage of
either of those words, substituting in their place the word "other;" let
the chips fall where they may!
May we ask your gracious pardon for a moment while we lock rhetor~
ical horns with our distinguished neighbor and co~reporter, Most Wor~
shipful Otto C. Hagmeier, P. G. M. of Oregon Jurisdiction. The emin~
ent Doctor, in his 1947 review called the attention of the Masonic world,
that we in California still persist in saying "compass" instead of "com~
passes.''
·
Now, the Book of The Entered Apprentice used by this Grand
Lodge, in speaking of certain inheritances states:
" .... the source of some of these particulars, the following may be
cited f;l'om old pre~Grand Lodge rituals of the 17th century:
'What makes a just and perfect Lodge?'
.
'A Master................... with Square, Compas and Common Gudg.'"
"Please. Dr. Watson, spare the need(e."
We found the scars from the holocaust of war, some slowly healing,
others still in need of the relief and aid to be given best by Masonic
hands. Close study of our account will indicate their urgency.
Again and again we noted with sorrowing heart the passing from
the wide Masonic universe, of some long. well~laboring Brother. Would
that our chronicle could list their names and their distinguished service
record.
These few lines from Whittier's immortal poem, marks their lasting
·
·
place in our fraternal brotherhood:
"How strange it seems, with so much gone
Of life and love, to still live on!
Yet Love will dream and Faith will trust
That somehow. somewhere. meet we must.
For who hath not learned in hours of faith
That Life is ever Lord of Death,
And Love can never lose its own!"

Adopted.

148

149

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Foreign Freemasonry
Page

Austra~:: ~~:;::~--~--~~::~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:::::~~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::~~=

INDEX OF SUBJECTS
Domestic Freemasonry

286
298

Queensland ····-····-························-----·············-········································-···...,...- 286
Page

Apostrophe to The Flag....·-··-·-··.·-······-~---··-···-··--·························-··················· 10

South Australia -·······--'------··········································-·················-··········-··-·-- 289
West Australia ·······················································································--········- 290
Tasmania .............................................................................................................,.. 295

Challenge to Freemaaonry.-..··--······---·-········---·································-··-··········· 67
Comments re California Correspondence Report..·-······························-······················· 24
Comments re Grand Lodge of Calllornia___·········:·-·········-······-··························-·······

Dominion of Canada
16

Concerning the Grand Secretar:les...--··················-···············································-·-··· 45
Continued Service to Our Yetenms......_..............·-·······················-········-······················ 182
Correspondence Reports per te...••.•..•••••..••..: ......•..•...•.- ...............................: •....•....••• -..... 27
Good and Welfare·---·······--····-··-·····················-·······-····~---·······-·····················-······· 91

Grand Masters' Co~ents and Travela...........................................·-····················-····-· 33

Interesting Miscellany ·······-····················-······················································-···········-- 142
Itemic Paragraphs -····-·······-·-·-·······-··················-···-················-·······························- 227
Life Membership ·····················-···-··················-··-·····-··················································- 154
Lodges Get Too Laro----····-····-·········-···--····-··························································-· 156
Masonic Education ·--···-··---················-·-··::········································-··················-· 112
Masonic History --··--············-·-·········-····················-······-·-····--··--···················- 52
Masonic Homes--·-········--····-····-··-···················-·······-················-··-············-··- 128
Masonic Libraries -··-·-········--··········-····--··········-········--····-··············-··········- 139
Masonic Publications ···········-··-··················-·······--·-·-·······························-·········-··· 124
Negro Freemasonry--··--·-···············-····-··························-····-················-······...:..········-· 212
Paragraphs Worth WbJJe.....·-···-·········-························-··-······-···-·--···-······-·-·····- 85
Physical Qualifications ·-·-··············································-····-··················-··········-···- 191
Public and Fraternal Relations....-

Victoria ·····················································································-············-···········-- 293

.............................................................................._ 159

Recognition of Continuous Service.:..·······•·································•···································• 77
Sanctity of the T'~·-·---·-············-···-·-·-·-·-··-···········-································-··· 48
The George Washington Masonic National Memorial..................-............................ 62
This Liquor Qaettl(le

-··········-··-······-····-·····-···-···-··..:.·--····----··----- 208

Alberta ·································-····-·-·················-·····················-·······-······-·····-··---··· 237
British Columbia ···-······································-············································-····- 239
Manitoba ·······································································-·····················-··············-- 240
Nova Scotia ----·······-·············---··············--·····················--··············-········-·---·- 244
Ontario ···················································································-··········--··-······---- 241
Prince Edward Island...- ..························-···---·-------· -·· - - . - - - - 251
Quebec --································································-··----········-·----····------ 248
Saskatchewan ·····················································-----·-········---········--·-···-·--·---- 253
European -·········-························································-···········-····-·-··--..--····-··-·-- 259
Con tinen tal -··············------··············---··············--·-·······---·..-···---...250. 260. 261

:~:d_:~~=:~::::::::::::::~~:::::::~::~:::~::~::~:::~~~~::::::::~==:::~~:::::~::::::::::::=:::= ~;~
.
-···-····-·-·-····-·-----210. 274
Scotland --··········-···-·-···----·····-·--····--

-~:lie~--~~~~~---·~.- -~ ~ - ~- ~·-·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-~.-.-.-.-.·~:-.·.:::·.·.·.:~·-:·.::::::·.:::::::::·.·.:::::::::::~:~:-~:::::::::::::::::=::~:= 235
304

::::::

Phllipplne Islands -·····························-·-·······················-······-··································-·······- 276

.
284
China ·-·························-····························..············-···················-······················
Guam ____,.__________.................................-----·---··--···················-························---·---···-···--- 280
Okinawa ························-···········- -·················-··-·······-·························-·········- 280

Recapl::i:o:.~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::·.=::::::::~::::::::::~~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::~:~::=::~~~==

261

Italy -·-··········-·············-··-···..···················-·····-·······-·-----··-····--····-·-

260

261

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1947 STATISTICS

5. Philippine Islands

1. United States of America
GRAND LODGES
Alabama - - - ·················
Arizona --·-·······- ········Arkansas - · - - - ·····"'
California -·--················
Colorado ·······-·················
Connecticut ·············-·-··
Delaware -- .....................
District of Columbia ... .
Florida --·······-··········-Georgia -······-···-·······-···
Idaho - - ··--·········-·······
Illlnoia - - - ···············-··
Indiana - ·-·······- -····
Iowa
········Kansas -···--·······
Ken~'!cky - ··-···-·-·····Wu1s1ana - ---.-- ·-··-··
Maine ·······-·············-·····
Maryland ···-·---·- ··Massachueette ···········- ···
Michigan - ·········-·······
Minnesota - -···- ···-·······
Mississippi ··----·············
MiBBOuri - - -·-·- ·- ····
Montana - - · -·- ······
Nebraska ----·········-···
Nevada ........................... .
New Hampshire ·- ···--

No.of MemberLodgeii
llhlp
413
64,637
89
7,792
879
43,176
173,917
692
148
36,370
41,232
129
82
6,147
48
23,411
227
89,691
465
67,691
80
11,630
976
224,226
538 •• 149,144
646
81,461
440
88,247
479
69,628
248
86,309
207
40,691
120
86,842
107,667
329
142,438
619
292
66,469
806
87,461
603
98,963
186
21,772
278
89,277
26
3,937
18,677
81

No.of MemberLodgea
ahip

New :lersey ······-- -·New :Mexico ---·······- •New York - ··- ··--·······North Carolina - ·-·····
North Dakota ····-···-··Ohio ···------··-·····Oklahoma ····- ···············
Oregon ..............................
Pennsylvania ...- .............
Rhode Island ····- -···--South Carolina - - - ····
South Dakota ··· - · - TenneSBee - ·--·---Texas - -- -- ··--·········
Utah········- ···- ··················
Vermont - ··- ·-···- ····- ···
Virginia - - -···-- ·- ···
Washington ....................
W!'st Vi.rginia ···-··-··W1scons1n _______,...........

297
67
1,036
321
119
626
384
180
663
44
278
168
877
892
27
108
826
267
163
306
60
61

86,086
9,469
271,906
43,122
12,291
231,600
66,478
86,097
210,347
16,668
32,963
16,632
67,274
169,469
6,478
17,619
48,667
64,488
88,998
66,869
10,082
4,396

Total for United States 16,366

8,289, 719

Wyoming --·- ···· - -·- ·
tPuerto Rico ·-·----··-

No. of MemberLoclgea
ship

GRAND LODGES

GRAND LODGES

•Does not Include Lo~es in Syria and
Lebanon.
tA• of December 81, 1946.

151

Jl{anlla ··············- ··-·······--

98

6,172

6. Continental Europe
(1947 Report)
No. of Member·
Lodges
1hlp

GRAND LODGES
Finland - - · -- ···-········
Norway - ·--·-·-·-·········-···
Sweden - -·-- ··-··- ···········

6
zo
49

213
fl0,000
i2s,100

GRAND LODGES
Total for Continental

Europe ··- -··--- ··-·-

No.of MemberLodgea
llhip
74

i38,818

'7. Great Britain, Scotland, and Ireland
GRAND LODGES

No.of MemherLoclgea
llhlp

England ·- ··-··-·······-····
Scotland ··--·-·--··-·······
Ireland - - . - - -·- ··-

6,786
900,
1,009

600,000
667,498
46,000

GRAND LODGES

No. of MemberLodgea
1hip

Total for Continental

Europe - ·- ···-·- ··-

7,784

1,112,498

'11947: 674 In S cotland : 316 overseas.

2. Dominion of Canada
GRAND LODGES
Alberta --··························
British Columbia ............
Canada-in Ontario ........
Manitoba ............................
New Brunswick - -·- ····-···
Nova Scotia
-····················
Prince
Edward
Island..__ _

No.of MemberLocl&'es
•hip
162
124
671
106
46
100
16

18,603
16,614
104,400
10,797
8,749
11,287
1,149

GRAND LODGES

No.of MemberLodgea
llhip
97
199

16,688
16,807

Total for Canada·-····1,419
Total for United States 16,366

194,889
8,239, 719

Total for North America 16,776

8,434,108

Quebec ---··--··- ········- ·Saskatchewan ··············- -

3. Latin America
(1947 Report)

GRAND LODGES
Bolivia - - - · - - · Chile - · ·· - - -·-····- Colombia, National Grand
Lodgeof (Bar ranquilla)
C u b a - - -- -- - · ·
Peru - - - -- - - - ··
Rio de :lanelro (Federal
District) - ······-··-·- · -

No.of Mem)lerLodges
llhip

No.of Member·
Locl&'e•
ship
8
16

77
682

660
17,600
660

San Salvador
(Cuscatian) - ··----···
Del Pacifico ......................
Mexico, United Grand
Lodge OrientalPenineular ···- ··-··-···-

16

660

1,120

Total for Latin
America ---- ··-····

896

28,276

16
86

2,128
6,114

9
206
86
9

GRAND LODGES

4. Australasia
GRAND LODGES
New South Wales..- ··--·
New Zealand ···-·····-·Queensland, United Grand
Lodae of ······---·-··-·South Australia - ··-· -

No.of MemherLodges
llhip
674
337

92,867
82,905

373
162

23,886
18,486

GRAND LODGES

No.of Member·
Lodgea
llhlp

Tasmania - -- ···- - ·Victoria ·····-··········-···········
Western Australia - ·--

64
622
216

6,679
76,866
14,686

Total for Australasia.._

2,488

264,698

194'7 ANNIVERSARIES OF UNITED STATES
GRAND LODGES
Years ·
State
Organized
Alabama - ·······-········-·····..···- ····..- ...128 Nebraska ............................................ 90
Arizona .............................................. 65 Nevada ................................................ 83
Arkansas .......- ......- ..- ·-···-..........- ...108 New Hampshire ···-··-··- -················-158
California ...........................:.............. 98 New Jersey ·······-·--·····-············-···..160
Colorado ............................................ 87 New Mexico ...................................... 70
Connecticut ·······-·-······-··-··--·-····--158 New York ..........................................165
Delaware ···-··········- ··- ..-······-···----142 North Carolina ................................180
Dist. of Columbia ............................137 North Dakota ·······-·························· 58
Florida ··-···········--······- ······-··- ··- ··-118 Ohio .................................·- ··- ···-··-···131
Georgia ·····-···············-······- ·····----180 Oklahoma .......................................... 47
Idaho - ·- ························- ··················· 81 Oregon ................................................ 97
lliinois --··-·······································108 Pennsylvania ···········- ················.......161
Indiana -··-································-130 · Rhode Island ......................................151
Iowa - ·---······················-·············-103 South Carolina ·- ····-··-··-··- ··- ···--.210
Kansas ................................................ 92 South Dakota .................................... 73
. Kentucky •...........................................14' Tennessee ......................- ..................134
Louisiana -··············-··················----138 Texas ·······---·-···---···--·-···--····-·--110
Maine ·····-······································-···129 Utah .................................................... 75
Maryland ............................................111 Vermont ·-'············-··-·-··..··········-···-154
Massachusetts ..................................169
Virginia ·········-··-··- ······-·-····--·"'······170
Michigan ·······-······················-······---lU Washington ........................................ 90
Minnesota ·- ············-·························· 94 West Virginia .................................... 82
Mississippi -·-··- ·········- ·-···············-129
Missouri ...................,..........................128 Wisconsin ···-··- ····-····-··············- .....103
Montana ............................................ 83 Wyoming ............................................ 73
Staie

Years
Organized

152

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Report of Committee on Memorial Temple
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The San Francisco members of the Committee have been engaged in
activities largely exploratory. This is enforced by circumstances-building costs which may be inordinate, appropriate location, and financing.
Requirements of Grand Lodge are obvious to everyone who attends
the annual communication. Representatives are packed in to such a
degree that they are uncomfortable. The discomfort of those on the floor
and the remoteness of those in the galleries interferes with and suppresses, without doubt, many who desire to participate in discussion of
Grand Lodge problems. It is not necessary to comment upon the misfortunes of those who are forced to be seated in the adjacent room and
are limited to loud speaker transmission.
There is not ample or suitable accommodation for committees whose
studies, reports and recommendations are an integral part of the transaction of business of Grand Lodge. There are not sufficient facilities
for social intercourse, which is important and particularly when limited
to an annual occasion.
A survey of the temple now accommodating Grand Lodge is convincing that it will not lend itself to remodelling sufficient for the purposes.
The possibilities of the fourth floor have been mentioned and considered
in the afore-mentioned survey. If remodelling that floor were feasible
even for the purpose of accommodating Grand Lodge in session, it would
not satisfy everything that is desirable, and would probably be an unsatisfactory temporary expedient. We must not be without concern of
the dangers involved under crowded conditions, particularly in event of
catastrophe. Consideration must be given to the adequacy of elevator
service, as under ordinary conditions during the Grand Lodge session it
is not always sufficient. Incidentally, a remodelling program would not
satisfy the Memorial objectives.
An ediS.ce is contemplated that will serve the purpose of Grand
Lodge and at the same time be appropriate for a memorial and also be
productive of income. The selection of location to complete the pattern
will require adroit real estate experience. Manifestly, there are problems
for experts. Building costs need not necessarily prove an obstacle. It
is not unlikely that building costs will continue in a high bracket and
that delay on that account would be unfortunate.
San Francisco, as is generally the case in metropolitan communities,
is undergoing revision of its transit and traffic, involving street improvements, arterials and free ways, possible intrusion upon real property encompassed in projected programs. There is a problem of parking and a
very deS.nite requirement that hotel and restaurant facilities shall be
reasonably easy of access.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

,
I

153

Locations will not be divulged until the interests of Grand Lodge may
be protected, for obvious reasons. At the moment, two seemingly satisfactory locations are being investigated, either one of which, depending
on financial requirement, seems to fit the pattern.
The study of the Committee is requiring time, and may defeat the
objective of completion during the Centennial year. Notwithstanding
past and prospective delay, we are not convinced that the objective may
not be accomplished. If the Committee is successful in developing the
project according to the pattern, financing should not be an insurmountable problem. It may be essential to provide a reasonable proportion of the required financing by means of a per capita. This added to
available funds, taking into consideration prospective income, will be
essential to obtaining an adequate loan. There is nothing to be gained
by any speculation as to S.nancial requirement until the essential facts
have been developed.
Based upon the foregoing it is the recommendation of the Committee
that a Memorial Building Committee be continued.
Respectfully submitted,

v.

FRANCIS
KEESLING
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
CHARLES E. MooRE
STANLEY CHAPMAN
}AMES HURST

c.

Adopted.

Centennial Arrangements Committee Report
To the Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Centennial Arrangements has made some
progress during the year, but the real work of the Committee remains
to be done in the next two years. At the last Communication of Grand
Lodge it was determined that we would celebrate the hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Grand Lodge during Grand Lodge week
in October, 1950, in San Francisco. That it might be a celebration worthy
of Grand Lodge a per capita tax of 25c was levied on the Lodges, and
expected to continue for three years, in order to S.nance the celebration.
Since only general plans could be formulated, we make this preliminary report in the hope that it will aid the committee hereafter in the
tremendous task that lies ahead of it. Your committee has held several
meetings. Since no funds have yet been made available, we have not
made any S.nancial commitments, but we have explored some of the possibilities and make certain suggestions that we think appropriate to submit
to Grand Lodge for approval. All we have done is preliminary and your

155

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

committee awaits authority to incur expense and to prosecute its duties
until the fulfilment of a task that will redound to the credit of Grand
Lodge and merit the approval of the brethren.

The invitations shall be personal and not transferable, except with
the approval of your committee, and other distinguished Masons may
be invited by your committee with the approval of the Grand Master.
We estimate that the special guests who accept our hospitality will be
not less than 250.
In addition to our special guests we hope and expect many thousands
of California Masons will attend the celebration and the program will
be arranged for their pleasure and entertainment. Much thought is being
given to doing something for our own members because it .is th~ir celebration and the centenary of their Grand Lodge and California never
does anything by halves.
5. PROGRAM
A tentative program, subject to alterations and future consideration.
would be as follows:

154

1. AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE

A Centennial Arrangements Committee should be appointed to serve
for three years, with full power to arrange for and conduct the celebration and to close up the business affairs connected therewith. The
committee should be authorized to expend the whole, or any part, of the
special fund accumulated for the celebration; to appoint a general manager; to appoint appropriate sub-committees; to arrange entertainment
and do whatsoever is necessary or expedient for the celebration-all with
the consent and approval of the Grand Master.

2. RESERVATIONS
Through the kindness of the Grand Secretary, and by the authority
of the Grand Master, a contract has been signed for the use of the
entire San Francisco Civic Auditorium with a seating capacity of
10.560 for October 9th through October 15th, 1950, and a deposit has
been made thereon. Through the Tourist and Convention Bureau of San
Francisco, 2000 rooms in Class A Hotels have been reserved for October
8th through October 15th, 1950.
3. GENERAL MANAGER
The committee has tent~tively employed a General Manager who has
had convention experience and who will serve under, and subject to, the
direction of the Centennial Arrangement Committee. It will be his duty
to maintain an office and to correlate the work of all the sub-committees
and to attend to all the details of the celebration. It is also tentatively
agreed hat he shall receive a salary of $650 per month for the year 1950,
and will employ such office help as shall be required.

4. GUESTS
It is contemplated that Grand Lodge shall invite as its special guests
for the Grand Lodge meeting in October, 1950, and pay their expenses
from the time of their arrival in San Francisco until the close of Grand
Lodge, the following distinguished persons: The President of the United
States, the Vice-President of the United States (if he is a Mason), the
Governor of the State of California, the Grand Masters of all Grand
Lodges with which we are in amity, the Grand Master of the Grand
Encampment Knights Templar, the Grand Commanders of the Supreme
Councils of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite for the Southern and
Northern Jurisdictions of the U.S. A ., the Grand High Priest of Royal
A'rch Masons of the U . S. A .. the Grand Master of Royal Select Masters
of the U.S. A., the Imperial Potentate of the Mystic Shrine, the Grand
Secretaries of the several Grand Lodges of the United States, together
with their wives.

SUNDAY:

An informal dinner for special guests.
MONDAY:

Opening of Grand Lodge.
Banquets in the evening for guests and all delegates. ·
TUESDAY:

Grand Lodge Session.
Visit to Decoto in the afternoon.
Cavalcade in the evening.
WEDNESDAY:

Grand Lodge Session.
Sightseeing in the afternoon (tour of the two bridges and Muir
Woods, or tour of San Francisco including Golden Gate Park,
Cliff House and thirty mile drive). ·
Cavalcade in the evening.
THURSDAY:

Grand Lodge Session.
Trips and entertainment in the afternoon.
Cavalcade in the evening.
FRIDAY:

Grand Lodge Session and installation of officers in the morning.
Afternoon for shopping and go-as-you-like.
Evening, Centennial Ball.
As an alternate for the Cavalcade in the evening, arrangements will
be made for a Twilight Cruise on San Francisco Bay, a tour of Chinatown After Dark, theatres, etc.
6. CAVALCADE
We hope to have written and produced a play giving in dramatic
form some aspects of the history and experiences of the Grand Lodge of

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

156

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

California. The history of California has a most colorful background and
in the hundred years of California Masonry there are many periods and
episodes that lend themselves to dramatic presentation. If our expectations are realized, the play will be presented to our brethren on three
successive nights. A strenuous effort will be made to present the play by
motion picture, or otherwise, to as many of the Craft throughout the
State as may be possible.
7. DINNERS
An informal dinner to our special guests and a sumptuous banquet to
the Grand Lodge delegates and other guests will be given. Arrangements for the latter will be difficult, but it will be worked out. Private
dinners and other entertainment will probably be offered by the local
Commanderies, Scottish Rite Bodies and Lodges. To avoid confusion,
all such functions must be cleared through the Centennial Committee.
8. HOTELS
The policy regarding distribution of special guests and other guests
will await a time when we have more information regarding the needs,
but a suitable arrangement for the comfort and convenience of our guests
will be worked out. Advance publicity will be complete and informative.

9. SUBCOMMITTEES
Many subcommittees will be appointed by the Centennial Committee
to be responsible thereto, who will be coordinated by the General
Manager, who will have the direction of all their work. Among such
committees will be the following:
Protocol. Finance, Housing, Registration, Police, Information, Greeters, Badges, Souvenirs, Program, Cavalcade, Dinners and Luncheons,
Printing and Publicity and Women's Activities.
10. WOMEN'S ACTIVITIES
There will be committees of women to assist in entertaining the
ladies who will attend the celebration, either as wives of special guests
or as wives of delegates.
11. BUDGET
It is too early to make a budget for the manifold activities of Centennial Week. Your committee is not yet advised of the cost of living,
transportation or entertainment in 1950 and it would be idle to try to set
a budget at this time. However, the per capita tax being levied on the
Lodges will produce not less than $135,000 and this will be the limit set
for our expenditures. There will be no deficits because we intend to
spend the money appropriated and no more.
The chief items in the budget will be hotels, transportation, Caval-

f

157

cade, dinners, ball~ entertainment, General Manager's expense and Convention Hall cost.
We. therefore, recommend that the Centennial Arrangements Committee be continued for three years and that said committee be authorized:
. .
1. To expend such money, within the limitations of the appropriation,
as is necessary to conduct and manage a Centennial Celebration that
will be creditable to Grand Lodge.
2. To draw warrants which shall be paid by the Grand Secretary out
of the special fund.
3. To employ a General Manager and such office assistants a~
necessary, to appoint subcommittees and take whatever steps seem to
them necessary and proper to accomplish its purposes.
Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

Special Report of Ritual Committee
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the 1947 Communication of this Grand Lodge, the following
motion was presented:
.
That the opening, closing and installation ceremonies of the
Grand Lodge be amended, to conform to Section Three of the Constitution, by deleting the address of Grand Lodge Officers whenever
the speaker is not addressing the officer spoken about and, whenever
the address and title are combined in speaking to an officer, by
deleting the title, leaving the address only.
It is referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes who
reported as follows:
.
.
The Committee is of the opinion that the opening, closing and
installation ceremonies should conform to our fundamental law and
we therefore, recommend the adoption of the motion.
This report was adopted.
.
. .
Before the language of the ritual. however, can be changed, it 1s
necessary for the Committee on Ritual to present such new language
to the Grand Lodge for adoption.
.
It is impossible for the Committee to prepare the req.uested ritual
prior to the close of the 1947 .c~mmunication'. Since that time, w~ have
developed the following ritualistic changes which we have been directed
to arrange.
The changes are as follows: (Deleted for obvious reasons).
CONCLUSION

T 0 conclude our report, we unanimously recommend that the language of the opening and closing ceremonies of Grand Lodge be not

158

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

changed, but that they remain in the form as used at this Communication
of Grand Lodge. We further recommend that the Resolution adopted by
Grand Lodge in 1947, which is above set forth, be rescinded.
'
Respectfully submitted,

The Committee has during the year given advice on many routine
problems of Grand Lodge and the Blue Lodges.
As it is contemplated that there will be changes in the tax laws which
will affect the tax status of Grand Lodge, we recommend continuance of
a special tax committee.
R. P. WISECARVER, Chairman
JAMES E. HAMMOND

ARTHUR M. WARREN
MERVYN E. HANSHAW
WALTER H. E. VONKONSKY
OBED w. CARR
FRANK HARWELL, JR.

Adopted.

Report of Conunittee on Jurisdiction

At the suggestion of the Grand Master, on motion, the entire matter
was referred to a special committee to be appointed by the Grand Master
after October 15, 1948, which committee was instructed to report at the
next Annual Communication.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of California:
Your Committee on Jurisdiction, to whom there has been submitted
several matters of importance, has devoted considerable time and thought
to what we consider the two most pressing problems pending before our
committee, and we offer the following resolutions and move their adoption:
1. That the Grand Lodge of California Free and Accepted Masons
of California take immediate steps to incorporate as a non-profit
corporation under the corporatiton Code of California to the end
that our name be not appropriated by clandestine organizations.
2. That the incoming Grand Master be authorized and directed to
employ counsel for the formation of such corporation in which the
Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens, the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary be
the officers, and their successors in office as elected or such other
officers as the Grand Master or Grand Lodge may direct.
3. That the incoming Grand Master be authorized to employ
counsel to appear on behalf of the Grand Lodge as a friend of
the court and set forth our prior right as the Supreme Masonic
authority of this State in the appeal now pending wherein the
"Sons of Light et al" are plaintiffs and "Hiram of Tyre et al" are
defendants.
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR w. BROUILLET
LEO E. SIEVERT
OTTO ROHWER
HENRY C. MACK
WARREN E. LIBBY

At twelve Noon Grand Lodge was called until 1 :30 p.m. Tuesday.
AFTERNOON SESSION
At 1 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.

Report of Special Taxation Committee
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Special Taxation Committee composed of Walter Perry Johnson, James E. Hammond and R. P. Wisecarver, Chairman, was reappointed for the current Masonic year.
During the year Brother Walter Perry Johnson passed away, and
the Committee and this Grand Lodge and Masonry in general has lost
by his passing a man of the highest character and erudition, who has ever
given freely and generously of his time and money to all good causes.
As we reported for the year 1947, all outstanding problems taxwise
have been ironed out and during the past year there has been no new
legislation passed by Congress nor by the State affecting seriously the
· tax structure of Grand Lodge. There were numerous tax bills introduced into Congress, but we have found none that passed which seriously
·
affect the status of Grand Lodge.
Some of the unpassed bills might fundamentally alter the tax structure of Grand Lodge and it is the understanding of this Committee that
some, if not all of the bills, will be presented for passage at the next
Congress.

159

....

Adopted.
Ref erred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
Committee on Jurisprudence•

160

Report of Committee on Grievances
To the Most Wor.shipful Grand Lodge of California:
Forty-nine records have been referred to your Committee on Grievances for study and report to Grand Lodge. Thirty~ne of these will be covered by this report and the remaining
eighteen will be presented to you with individual opinions by various
members of the Committee.
As is not unusual, we have again encountered several trial records
in which the Master has permitted nominations for trial commissions.
We are not unmindful of the fact that by two rulings made in 1892,
reported in paragraph 974 of Edicts and Resolutions of the Grand
Lodge, it was held that nominations of Trial Commissioners might be
permitted. However, it seems to your Committee, and we have so stated
to Grand Lodge, that the nomination of Trial Commissioners is out of
harmony with the language of Section 299 of our Ordinances and that
the better practice is for such nominations not to be permitted. The packing of a Commission, is, of course, a Masonic offense. If nominations
of Trial Commissioners is permitted, the packing of .the Commission
might be a very simple matter. Section 299 of our Ordinances provides
in part as follows :
"Each member present will write the name of as many members
of the Lodge upon one ballot as shall correspond with the number
of Commissioners determined upon,".
If this procedure is followed without the making of nominations.
the packing of a Trial Commission would be a virtual impossibility.
Again, therefore, we recommend to Masters presiding at Masonic Trials
that the nominations of Trial Commissioners be not permitted.
Each year, and this is no exception, we encounter a number of trial
records in which the accused has been convicted of a crime in the courts
of the land. In many of such cases, the specifiations charge this conviction rather than setting forth the commission of the crime itself. We
again emphasize that being convicted of a crime is not a Masonic
offense-it is the commission of such crime which constitutes the offense.
Therefore, the specifications contained in a charge of Unmasonic conduct should be that the accused had committed a crime, specifying the
nature and date of same and not that he had been convicted of committing the offense.
Considering the records before us as a whole, we are impressed
by the sincerity with which Masonic Trials are handled by the constituent Lodges and the Trial Commissions selected by them. The fact
that many of such trials are presided over by Masters who are unskilled in law sometimes result in errors being committed which require
a retrial of the matter. Frequently such errors could be avoided if
Masters who are called upon to preside over trials would devote more
study to the Ordinances and decisions under them. If in doubt, they
should not hesitate to seek the advice and assistance of those who are
skilled in Masonic law,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

..

161

In one of the cases covered by this report, we encountered a situation in which a Master directed the Junior Warden to prefer charges and
thereafter presided at the trial. In accordance with previous rulings of
Grand Lodge, this would ordinarily compel a reversal. However, in
this particular case the accused did not appear at the trial and the
proof of guilt is so clear that your Committee feels the conclusion of the
Trial Commission should not be disturbed. We call this particular case
to your attention in the hope that such errors will be avoided in the
future.
This report deals with the following trial record:
No. 108~(Retrial) A member of San Bernardino Lodge No. 348.
Suspended March 7, 1946. Retired and found not guilty
February 13, 1947.
No. 1088-( Retrial) A member of Willow Glen Lodge No. 676. Expelled October 2, 1946.
No. 1121-A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Expelled October
6, 1947. (See also Trial Record No. 1143.)
No. 1122-A member of Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44. Expelled November 5, 1947.
No. 1123-A member of Porterville Lodge No. 303. Expelled December
11. 1947.
.
No. 1124-A member of Fillmore Lodge No. 379. Expelled January
7, 1948.
No. 1126-A member of University Lodge No. 394. Expelled January
5, 1948.
No. 1127-A member of Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192. Suspended
January 8, 1948.
No. 1128-A member of a Lodge in Washington. Expelled January
7. 1948.
No. 1131-A member of Woodland Lodge No. 156. Expelled February
6. 1948.
No. 1132-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Expelled
April 1. 1948.
No. 1133-A member of Mount Olive Lodge No. 506. Expelled May 5,
1948.
No. 1135-A member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. Expelled April 5,
1948.
No. 1136-A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Expelled April 5,
1948. Appeal.
No. 1137-A member of Covenant Lodge No. 527. Reprimand April 7,
1948.
No. 1138-A member of Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674. Expelled June 7,
1948.
No. 1139-A member of Roseville Lodge No. 222. Reprimand March
1, 1948.

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 1140-A member of San Jose Lodge No. IO. Acquitted April 5,
1948.
No. 1141-A member of a Lodge in New York. Expelled July 11, 1948.
No. 1142-A member of a Lodge in Michigan. Reprimand July 6, 1948.
No. 1143-See Trial Record No. 1121 ).
No. 1144-A member of Chula Vista Lodge No. 626. Expelled July 6,
1948.
No. 1146---A member of Palestine Lodge No. 351. Expelled August 2,
1948.
No. 1147-A member of Lassen Lodge No. 149. Expelled September 7,
1948.
No. 1148-A member of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled September
7. 1948. .
No. 1150-A member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442. Expelled September
13, 1948.
No.1151-A member of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410. Acquitted September 7, 1948.
No. 1152-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Acquitted November 6, 1947-.
No. 1153-A member of San Francisco Lodge No. 360. Expelled July
12, 1948. Appeal.
·
No.1154-A member of McKinley Lodge No. 347. Expelled September 2, 1948.
No. 1155-A member of Union Lodge No. 58. Acquitted April 6, 1948.
In each of the foregoing records, your Committee has carefully reviewed the proceedings reflected therein. We find that no substantial
errors have been committed which have resulted in a miscarriage of
justice:
Section 341 of our Ordinances reads as follows:
"No judgment of a trial commission shall be set aside, or new
trial granted, for any error of any sort as to pleading, procedure,
or introduction of evidence, unless, after an examination of the
entire case, including the evidence, the Grand Lodge shall be of the
opinion that the error committed has resulted in a miscarriage of
justice.''
In accordance with this section, we therefore offer the following
resolution and move its adoption:
BE IT RESOLVED that in each of the Trial Records hereinbefore
enumerated the findings and determination of the various Trial Commissioners be and the same is hereby ratified, affirmed, and approved.
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
HUGH D. STALEY
ANTHONY C. MECCA

Adopted.

FRANK B. BELCHER
Loms C. DRAPEAU
JoE L. SHELL
ALBERT F. Ross

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I

163

Trial Record No. 408
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition
for restoration of C. S. R., formerly a Member of Tehama Lodge No.
3, reports as follows:
The accused was expelled by his Lodge after conviction of a felony
and imprisonment in state prison in 1924.
Only one supporting letter has been received in connection with the
petition for restoration. From that letter it would seem that the accused
has been rehabilitated and has been leading a good life in recent years
and is a good citizen. However we should have more evidence in such an
important matter. The accused should furnish us with letters or affidavits from a number of persons in his locality, particularly Masons,
vouching for his present good character.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution.
Be It Resolved, That the petition of C. S. R. for restoration to all
the rights and privileges of Masonry be denied without prejudice.
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 487
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the application of W. H. N.
for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, begs leave to
report as follows:
The petitioner was charged with unmasonic conduct in that on June
19, 1925, he, with two others, broke into a box car at Guadalupe, and
stole merchandise therefrom.
He was tried in his Lodge on October 31, 1925, and on December
5, 1925, and strong evidence was produced to establish the guilt of
the accused, who did not appear, nor did he offer any evidence on his
own behalf. The trial commissioners unanimously found him guilty
of the specification, and of unmasonic conduct, and fixed the penalty
at expulsion.
·
The petitioner supports his application by five letters, only one of
which purports to come from a member of our fraternity. This letter
states that the petitioner is a man of excellent character.
The four other letters seem based largely upon business contacts
with the petitioner, and speak very well of him.
This showing is, however, in the opinion of your Committee, insufficient to induce the favorable action of Grand Lodge. We believe
that it will be desirable that the petitioner provide Grand Lodge with
letters and statements from Masons and other reputable persons of his
p>mmunity as to his home life and social life, as well as to his reputation

164

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

in the community. in addition to those already submitted as to his business life. To do this would be only to require as thorough a showing
. as investigating committees should make of the character and reputation
of an applicant for the degrees; surely thi;; is justified.
Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of W. H. N. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry. be and the same is denied, without prejudice
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 538

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the petition of E. A. P .. a
former member of Standard Lodge No. 440. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry. reports as follows:
The petitioner was tried in his Lodge on April 26, 1927, some twenty-one years ago. upon the charge of unmasonic conduct, based upon six
specifications; the first five of which alleged in effect that on several
occasions during the first three months of 1926, the accused had indulged
in sexual intercourse with a seventeen-year-old girl. Upon the Masonic
trial. by a vote of 5 to 3. the trial commissioners found him guilty of
these specifications.
The sixth specification alleged that on several occasions during the
Fall of 1926, the accused was found in bed with a married woman, and
had left San Francisco with the woman. The trial commissioners. by a
vote of 7 to 1 found him not guilty of this specification. The trial commissioners by a vote of 5 to 3 found the accused guilty of unmasonic
conduct; and by the same vote fixed the penalty at suspension. This
penalty was raised to expulsion by Grand Lodge at its 1927 Communication.
At the time of his trial the accused was working at Seminole, Oklahoma, and not being present, sufficient evidence was introduced to support the findings of the trial commission.
In his application the petitioner states that after leaving California
in 1927, he was employed for several years by various oil companies
and construction companies as surveyor, inspector, and construction
superintendent; and in 1936 went to Lockhart, Florida, where he purchased and until 1941, operated a tourist park. The petitioner had
served in the Army in the first World War, and in August, 1941, was
recalled, and has remained in the Army since that date. He has attained
the rank of captain, having served in the West Indies. North Africa,
and European theatres of war. He is now hospitalized because of spinal
injuries received in military service, but expects to be released 90on
from the hospital.
The petitioner presents with his application a number of letters from
Masons living in Albany, Georgia, which is apparently near the hos-

,

165

pital where the petitioner is receiving treatment, all of which speak
highly of his character and reputation.
I quote from some of the letters:
"Masons who know Captain E. A. P. have expressed themselves as
entirely favorable to signing his application for the degrees had he
wished to remain silent concerning his post-Masonic history.''
Again quoting:
"He is a very good man. He is superior in reliability and dependability.''
Again quoting:
"I know him to be charitable and tolerant.''
Again quoting:
"I have found him to be a man of good character. morally and in
every other way.''
Again:
"I have found him at all times to be a gentleman and worthy of all
the traditions of Freemasonry."
Again:
"I feel that Captain E. A. P. is a man that really lives Masonry day
to day.''
Other favorable comments are contained in other letters from
Masons who know the petitioner but to quote them would merely extend this report.
Your committee is of the belief that the applicant has. by his conduct during the twenty-one years since his expulsion, earned the favorable consideration of this Grand Lodge.
We desire, however, to direct the attention of Grand Lodge to the
former action of Grand Lodge in three resolutions, namely Resolutions
Nos. 930, adopted in 1873; 931 in 1886; and 923 in 1909; in cases where
the petitioners had left the jurisdiction of California, to reside elsewhere.
The 1873 resolution approved a report of the Grievance Committee in
which denial of a petition for restoration was recommended because the
petition was not accompanied by evidence of the action of a Lodge,
within whose jurisdiction he resided, that the applicant was worthy,
and that his standing and character were such as would entitle him to
affiliation with such Lodge should he be restored.
Resolution No. 931, adopted in 1886, receded slightly from the rule
of the 1873 resolution. in that the committee's report indicates that
satisfactory evidence, by or through the Lodge (or its members) within
whose jurisdiction the petitioner resides. that he is worthy, if necessary.
Resolution No. 923, adopted in 1909, approved the report of the
Grievance Committee, recommending the denial of a petition for restoration because the application was not accompanied by satisfactory evi-

166

167

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

dence of favorable action taken by the Lodge within whose jurisdiction
the petitioner resided.
Your committee is unable to discover in our constitution, or in any
ordinance of Grand Lodge any support whatsoever for this rule laid
down by adoption of the Grievance Committee reports in the cases
involved.
In many cases such a rule would make hopeless the filing of a petition for restoration. In California Lodges, there is no such proceeding
known. To ask a Lodge in another state to certify to this Grand Lodge
that such Lodge would permit the petitioner to affiliate is hardly logical.
This would be tantamount to an election to membership in the
foreign Lodge, while the petitioner is still under expulsion.
We believe that Grand Lodge should examine each such case on its
merits, requiring the submission with each application for restoration,
of statements by Masons or other reputable persons who have knowledge of the petitioner's character and reputation. This is satisfactorily
done in the instant application.
We have recited these matters in order that Grand Lodge may be
fully informed. We believe that fourteen years of honorable service
in civil life and seven years of patriotic military service to his country
should be sufficient evidence, when corroborated by the written statements of a considerable number of Masons, that the .p etitioner has been
rehabilitated. The action of Grand Lodge will not, of course, restore
him to membership in his former Lodge, but it will be necessary for him
to acquire membership in a Lodge within whose jurisdiction he may
reside, by petition for affiliation, and election.
Your Committee offers the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of E. A. P. for restoration to all of the
rights and privileges of a Mason-at-large be and the same is hereby
granted.

Masonry we have received only one letter except that from himself. We
deem this insufficient evidence to justify favorable action on his petition,
we therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Be It Resolved, That the petition of E. P. P. for restoration to the
rights and privileges of Masonry be denied without prejudice to further
petition when the petition is supported by evidence of present good
character.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 802
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is a petition for restoration from R. H. B .• formerly a member
of Northern Light Lodge No. 190, who was expelled in 1933 after
conviction of felony in the state courts. For the past ten years he has
been teaching in one high school and has risen to the principa~ship of
the school. Letters from numerous associates, mostly Masons, indicate
that he now leads an exemplary life and is a good citizen of the community, state and nation. There were sufficient extenuating circ~m­
stances in his original criminal conviction that he was not sent to prison
but was given a county jail term plus a period of probation.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
Be It Resolved, That the petition for restoration of R. H. B. be
granted and that he be restored to all rights ~nd privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 946

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 705
To the Mos(Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is a petition for restoration by E. P. P. who was expelled by,
action of Grand Lodge in 1931. He had been a member of Monterey
Lodge No. 217.
This petition was presented in 1946 too late for action by Grand
Lodge, continued to the 1947 communication and denied without prejudice for the reason that petitioner had offered no evidence of rehabilitation or of present good character except letters from himself.
He has repeated his petition for restoration this year, but, although
advised to obtain letters, affidavits or other documents to indicate some
reason why he should be restored to the rights and priveleges of

'~

Your committee to which was referred the petition for restoration of
the accused in trial record No. 946, respectfully reports as follows:
The petitioner was expelled on December 7, 1938. He had been
brought to trial in Oakland Lodge No. 188 for unMasonic co~duct, o?
a charge of lewd conduct against a child five years of age. Prior to his
Masonic trial. the accused had pleaded guilty to this charge in the
Superior Court of the County of Alameda, and had been placed on
probation for five years.
.
.
In 1943, the accused presented a petition for restoration which was
apparently withdrawn. The reason for the withdrawal is not known to
this committee. With this 1943 petition. there were three letters of
recommendation. On July 30, 1948, the accused in letter form made
application for restoration, copy of which was sent to Oakland Lodge
No. 188, and which application for restoration is now before us for
consideration. The letter for restoration is supported by only one rathe~
general letter of recommendation, and merely ref~r~ to the letters
accompanying the 1943 petition, and the p~~sons givmg su~h let~ers.
The letter for restoration further states that after thorough investigation by the Alameda County Superior Court, I was entirely vindicated

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of the charges made against me, and was restored to my full rights as
an American citizen." There is no evidence presented to support this
claim of "vindication."
The record therefore, presented to your committee for consideration
constitutes merely an application for restoration supported by one
current letter of recommendation and refers to three written in 1943.
What could have been true in 1943 might have changed five years later
in 1948, and therefore, these earlier letters of recommendation cannot
be given weight at this time. The seriousness of the charge places upon
the accused the burden of producing some evidence that he as re~
habilitated himself at this time. There is a marked absence of evidence to
support the application.
We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following reso~
lution:

Resolved, That the petition of C. J. S. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry be and is hereby denied without prejudice.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1054
To the Mast Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
To your Committee on Grievances there has been referred Trial
Record 1054, which presents a petition for restoration by one H. L. C.
of Honolulu Lodge No. 409.
The petitioner was expelled in 1945 and his expulsion confirmed by
Grand Lodge at its Convocation of that year.
Under date of August 6, 1948, he addressed a petition for restora~
tion to this Grand Lodge. By letter from the Assistant Grand Secretary
on August 11, 1948, petitioner was advised that his request for restora~
tion would have to be substantiated by evidence that notice of the
petition had been given to Honolulu Lodge No. 409. The Assistant
~rand Secretary also advised petitioner it would be appropriate for
him to forward letters of recommendation.
Notwithstanding these advices, the file in its present condition fails
to show that the notice required by Section 346 of Ordinances of Grand
Lodge has been complied with. This section requires an expelled Mason
desiring to petition Grand Lodge for restoration to notify in writing the
Lodge which expelled him of such intended petition at least sixty days
before the annual communication at which the petition is to be presented.
The section further provides that proof of the giving of such notice to
the Lodge must be shown before the petition can be considered by
Grand Lodge. In the absence of proof of giving such ·notice to the
Lodge which expelled petitioner and in the absence of a further show~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

169

ing as to the rehabiJitation, no course is open to Grand Lodge except
to deny the petition without prejudice.
Your Committee therefore offers and moves the adoption of the
following resolution:
"Resolved, that the petition of H. L. C. for restoration to all the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby denied with~
out prejudice.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1060
The accused R. L. E. was expelled by Silver Cord Lodge No. 505,
on June 5, 1945. This was an automatic expulsion under Section 332 of
the Ordinances. A certified copy of a judgment of conviction was filed
with the Lodge showing that the accused has been imprisoned in 1934
at the United States Southwestern Reformatory at El Reno, Oklahoma.
for unlawfully receiving and concealing certain intoxicating liquors.
On August 3, 1948, accused, now a resident of Wichita, Kansas,
filed his application for restoration to the rights and privileges of
Masonry. Notice to Silver Cord Lodge is shown and the application
is supported by excellent letters of recommendation from law enforcement officers and agencies at Wichita, Kansas, attorney, bank and
Chamber of Commerce there. The accused received a Presidential
pardon in 1945. The letters do not indicate whether the recommenders
are Masons or not. However in trial record No. 523, Grand Lodge has
approved the granting of an application for restoration of a petitioner
residing in another jurisdiction without formal action being taken by
the Lodge within whose jurisdiction the petitioner resided.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved that the petition of R. L. E. to be restored to all the rights
and privileges of Masonry, be and the same is hereby granted.
Adopted.

Trial Record 1087
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
To your Committee on Grievances has been referred TRIAL REC~
ORD NO. 1087 from Golden Rule Lodge No. 479.
This record was before Grand Lodge at its meeting in 1947. The
accused was charged with a conspiracy to operate slot machines and
other gambling devices in Santa Clara County while he was acting as
the duly elected and qualified Sheriff of that county. As a trial held late
in 1946, the accused had been acquitted by his Lodge. This matter was
reported to Grand Lodge by the Grievance Committee in 1947 in its
omnibus report, with the recommendation that the acquittal of the
accused be affirmed by Grand Lodge. Upon motion made from the floor

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of Grand Lodge, this record was removed from the 1947 omnibus report
of your Committee on Grievances. Thereafter, and by further action of
Grand Lodge, the case was reversed and remanded to the Lodge for a
retrial.

We now have the matter before us again. Both trial records are in the
hands of Grand Lodge. In the interests of justice we feel that Grand
Lodge. in disposing of this case, should take into con.sideration all that
is disclosed for our information from both of these trial records.
Considerable publicity was given to the trial of the accused when
he was before the Superior Court. The situation involving the accused
is doubtless well known to all of the members of his Lodge. The Trial
Commissions of that Lodge have now twice found the accused not guilty
of unmasonic conduct, the total vote of the two commissions being fifteen
in favor of not guilty and one in favor of guilty.
From a consideration of this entire record as it has come to Grand
Lodge over a period of two years, your Committee does not find that
there has been a miscarriage of justice sufficient to warrant Grand Lodge
in again reversing the finding of the Trial Commissio~s.
Grand Lodge has heretofore declared: "A judgment of acquittal by
the subordinate lodge, of which the accused is a member, should not be
reversed or disturbed by the Committee on Grievances, or by the Grand
Lodge, except in a case of gross violation of Masonic law by the trial
commission or by the lodge acquitting him."
In view of the foregoing, your Committee offers the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved, that the action of the Trial Commission in finding the
accused not guilty of the specification and the charge be and the same is
hereby ratified, affirmed, and approved.
It was moved, seconded and carried that the recommendation of
the committee be not adopted and Grand Lodge then, on motion, reversed the recommendation of the committee and remanded the case for
retrial in a lodge to be designated by the Grand Master.

Such a retrial has now been had and by a vote of seven to one, the
Trial Commissioners found the accused not guilty of the specification
and by a vote of eight to none, found the accused not guilty of unmasonic conduct. The accused has therefore been acquitted for the
second time by a Trial Commission of his Lodge.
On this second trial, the only evidence introduced by the prosecution
was a certified copy of the record of the Superior Court of Santa Clara
County evidencing a finding of guilt of the accused of a similar charge.
No evidence was introduced by the accused. However, his counsel urged
upon the Trial Commission that the accused had been once acquitted
by the Trial Commission of that Lodge and that this served as an offset
to the finding of guilt by the court. Counsel for the accused further
erroneously urged upon the Trial Commission that this second trial
amounted to tv:ice placing the accused in jeopardy for the same offense.
Such was not the fact since Grand Lodge had reversed the previous
finding of not guilty and had ordered a new trial. Thereafter, the second
trial did not involve a situation where the accused was being charged
for the second time with the same offense. Instead, it was merely a retrial
of the first charge pursuant to an order by Grand Lodge. If your Committee were considering this record for the first time and solely on the
basis of this second trial. we would be constrained to recommend to
Grand Lodge that the finding of not guilty be reversed. This would be
our recommendation for the reason that the certified copy of the conviction of the acccused in the courts of the land constituted a prima facie
case and no defense having been offered by the accused to offset this
prima facie showing, no finding other than one of guilt would be permissible.

Trial Record No. 1119

Section 341 of our Ordinances reads as follows:
"No judgment of a trial commission shall be set aside, or new
trial granted, for any error of any sort as to pleading, procedure, or
introduction of evidence, unless, after an examination of the entire
case, including the evidence, the Grand Lodge shall be of the opinion
that the error committed has resulted in a miscarriage of justice."
Your Committee still adheres to its views that the finding of not
guilty by the Trial Commission on the trial held in 1946 should have
been affirmed and still feels that under the provisions of section 341 of
the Ordinances just quoted the action of Grand Lodge in reversing the
finding of not guilty and remanding the cause for a new trial was not
warranted.

171

--.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge:
Your committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1119 ,reports as follows:
The accused, W. M. L., a member of Durant Lodge No. 268,
became involved with another and older man in a series of burglaries in
Berkeley. Unquestionably the other man was the leader, the instigator
and the most active participant. The accused acted as a lookout. They
were eventually caught, charged with two of the burglaries in the
state court and convicted, the other man being sent to prison and the
accused being given probation because of his good past record and
fine family connections.
He was charged masonically with the commission of the two
burglaries to which he had pleaded guilty in the ~tate court, ap~ared
at the trial and admitted the facts, was found gmlty of both spec1fica-

172

173

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tions and of unmasonic conduct and suspended. The findings of guilt
were the only possible results on the record and should be affirmed.
The penalty, however, should he changed.
It has been the policy of Grand Lodge to assess the penalty of
expulsion when Masons have committed felonies involving moral
turpitude under the law of the land, and have been found guilty of
unmasonic conduct. While there were mitigating circumstances which
caused the state court to be lenient and to grant probation to the accused, the fact remains that he knew what he was doing when he participated in these burglaries.

served personally by the Tiler, or some other member of the Lodge
authorized by the Master for that purpose, or shall be left at his ordinary
residence or place of business."
In order for the Lodge to acquire jurisdiction, it is fundamental
that the accused be served in accordance with the provisions of Section
308. In this case there was no personal service of summons at least
ten days before the trial. Attention is also directed to the manner of
conducting the trial. When a Master is disqualified for any reason, the
Grand Master under Section 301, may appoint any Past Master to
preside. The power of appointment, however, does not rest in any
other person~ Care should also be taken to avoid ·t he introduction of
hearsay and opinion testimony so freely use~ in this trial.
We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved: That the action of Palms Lodge No. 512 in suspending
A. P. P. from all the rights and privileges of Masonry be reversed and
set aside, and that the case be remanded for a new trial.

We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Be It Resolved that the action of the Trial Commissioners in finding
the accused, W. M. L. guilty of both specifications in the charges
against him and guilty of unmasonic conduct be affirmed and approved,
hut that the penaltJ' he changed from suspension to expulsion and that
said accused be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

r

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1125

Trial Record Nos. 1101, 1129 and 1130

The accused, A. P. P., was charged with unmasonic conduct on the
ground of drunkeness and intoxication. On October 23, 1947, a special
meeting of Palms Lodge was held at which nine commissioners were
duly elected to try the accused. The Master named November 24, 1947,
as the time for the first meeting of the commissioners, and directed the
secretary to prepare a summons to the accused to appear at said time
and place. The record shows that on November 24, 1947, six of the
nine elected commissioners were present for the trial, together with
one past Master, not elected as a commissioner, and who is referred to
as "Chairman." The record further shows that the summons to the
accused, although dated October 30, 1947, was not served on the
accused personally, but was "forwarded by mail" by the Secretary to
the accused at his last known place of residence on November 18, 194 7,
just six days before the trial. The accused did not appear at the trial
either in person or by attorney. The trial then proceeded with the socalled "Chairman" conducting the trial as the presiding officer, and the
accused was suspended. The Master of the lodge was present, appearing
at the first hearing as a witness against the accused, and at the continued hearing in the role of prosecutor or counsel for the accuser, conducting the examination of the witnesses.
Section 308 of the Ordinances provides:
"If the accused be within the jurisdiction of the Lodge, the summons
and copy of the charges shall be issued and served upon the accused
at least ten days prior to the day appointed for the trial, and shall be

This is a report concerning two trial records, record No. 1129 and
record No. 1130, and also trial record No. 1101, No. 1101 being a
duplicated number.
The facts have to do with a real estate broker, a real estate salesman, the owner of real property, and a dummy. The broker and the
salesman were both Masons of this jurisdiction. The salesman was
an employee of the broker. The owner employed the broker and the
salesman to sell the property. The broker and the salesman caused title
to be conveyed by their client, the owner, to a dummy, and represented
to the owner that the sales price was $1219.75 less than what the
property was really sold for. In truth and in fact the sale was to a purchaser (to whom title was conveyed by the dummy) for $1219.75 in
excess of the purchase price the two Masons told their client they had
received.
Then they collected a commission of 5% from the owner on the
purported purchase price, and the salesman kept the $1219.75 "profit."
The broker was highly incensed at the salesman for keeping the whole
sum of $1219.75: claimed that half of it belonged to him. Finally he
fired the salesman, and preferred charges of unMasonic conduct against
him.
These charges were heard last year by a trial commission which
reprimanded the salesman. When the record of this case came to Grand
Lodge, it was returned for further trial because the trial commission
had made no findings on the specifications of unMasonic conduct. From

175

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

this record it was apparent that the broker and the salesman were
each guilty of unMasonic conduct ·and should both be tried therefor.
Obviously they were both guilty ·of fraud and deceit as to the owner of
the real estate, whom they represented and to whom each of them owed
the duty of a fiduciary. Grand Lodge therefore ordered the broker to
be tried and the salesman to be retried.
Upon the trial of these two cases this year, the broker was found
guilty of unMasonic conduct, ·and the penalty fixed at suspension; the
salesman was likewise found guilty of unMasonic conduct and the
penalty fixed at expulsion.
A brief has been filed in behalf of the salesman, arguing that the
penalty as to him is unduly severe compared with that fixed for the
broker; that the salesman was a young man who looked to the older
broker as a mentor; and that the fault was primarily that of the broker,
who should have set a better example for his employee. There is merit
to this argument.
Your committee has given serious consideration to these cases. We
are of the opinion that the charges of unMasonic conduct as to both
parties have been amply proved, and that the proceedings are all regular
and sufficient. But we think we should recommend to Grand Lodge that
the penalties be the same and fixed at suspension.
Therefore, we offer the following resolutions:
Resolved that in trial record No. 1130 the findings and judgment
of suspension of the trial commission be approved.
Resolved that in trial record No. 1129 ( No. 1101 ) the findings of
the trial commission be approved, but that the penalty be reduced from
expulsion to suspension.
·

the saloon business, either as owner, agent or employe, except in
connection with and as a part of the operation of a bona fide hotel
or restaurant, or who shall become a barkeeper. shall be deem~d
guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall, upon due trial ?~d conv~c­
-tion of said offense, forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges. mcluding membership in any Lodge."
.
In this case the Commission fixed the penalty at suspension.
In the opinion of your Committee, the language of Section 210 of the
Ordinances to the effect that one found guilty of being a barkeeper
shall "forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges, including membership
in any Lodge," does not permit of the penalty of suspension and commands the penalty of expulsion.
.
From a realistic point of view, there may not be a great deal of difference between our penalties of suspension and expulsion. It is true that a
suspended Mason may not enjoy any of the rights and privileges of a
Mason during the period of such suspension. However, a ~omplet~ forfeiture of such rights and privilege as contemplated by Section 210 m the
opinion of your Committee can only be accomplished by expulsion.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved. that -the action of the Trial Commission re trial record
1134 in finding the accused R. M . guilty be and the same is hereby ratified, affirmed, and approved but that the fixing of the penalty of suspension be and the same hereby is modified and the penalty fixed at
expulsion.
·

174

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1134
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Trial record No. 1134 from Three Pillars No. 613 Lodge presents
a case in which the accused is charged with being a bartender at the
-time of filing of the charges and with having followed that occupation
for a period of more than three years.
· ·
The record is again before us, following a retrial which was ordered
by Grand Lodge in 1946.
·
The accused admitted his occupation as a bartender and the Commission very properly found him guilty of the specific;ation with which
he was charged.
The penalty was fixed at suspension.
Section 210 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge provides jn part as
follows:
" ... any Mason who may hereafter enter upon and engage in

Adopted.

Trial Report No. 1145
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The accused presented his petition for the degrees to a lodge in
Marshalltown, Iowa. Objection was made and he was rejected. Shortly
thereafter, he came to California and presented his petition for the
degrees to Whittier Lodge.
..
..
.
In his petition to Whittier Lodge, he answered No to the question
whether he had ever applied for the degrees to any other lodge; he also
answered "No" to the question whether he had ever been rejected by a
Masonic Lodge.
In his trial by Whittier Lodge. the accused admitted the falsity of
his answers to these questions and to the further question in the petition whether all of his answers were true. He was convicted of unMasonic conduct and adjudged to be expelled.
In these cases, it has been the policy of Grand Lodge to adjudge
suspension rather than expulsion because Section 345 of our Ordinances

176

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

requires the accused should he hereafter desire to be restored te the
rights and privileges of Masonry, first to petition the Lodge which
heard the case, thus the Lodge which tried him is required to formally
consider and pass upon the petition for restoration.
Therefore, your Committee offers the following resolution:
Resolved: That the action of Whittier Lodge in finding the accused
guilty of unMasonic conduct be approved but that the penalty be fixed
at suspension.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1149
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
From East San Diego Lodge No. 561 :
The accused, a Fellowcraft, was charged with unmasonic conduct
supported by a specification charging that he was in the saloon business.
A sharply contested trial was had, the main question being whether the
place of business, of which the accused was a part owner, was a saloon
or a bona fide restaurant. The trial commission found against the accused.
In the opinion of your Committee, there is sufficient evidence to support
the finding. The penalty was fixed as suspension.
As previously reported to this Grand Lodge in Trial Record No.
1134, your Committee feels that Section 210 of the Ordinances of Grand
Lodge does not permit of the penalty of suspension but compels expulsion when the accused is convicted of engaging in the saJoon business.
Accordingly, we offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the finding of guilt by the Trial Commission in the
Trial Record No. 1149 be and the same hereby is affirmed and approved
but that the penalty of suspension be and the same hereby is changed to
expulsion.
Adopted.

•

(

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

177

Blythe Lodge No. 473-Dispensation Request
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Inasmuch as the cost of material has not been reduced sufficiently in
the past year to enable Blythe Lodge No. 473, F. & A. M .. of Blythe,
California, to proceed with the building of their Temple, it is necessary
that they be granted another years extension on their dispensation to
meet in the Blythe High School Building. We earnestly pray that you
grant this request of Blythe Lodge No. 473.
V. L. THOMPSON,
Senior Warden, Blythe Lodge No. 473
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

Report of Committee on Constitution Month Observance
To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to submit a report of the Committee of the Grand
Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California, on Constitution
Month Observance.
We are pleased to advise you that more interest has been demonstrated throughout the Jurisdiction in the matter of this Observance
during the year just concluded than has attended the efforts of the
Committee during any former year. 332 of the subordinate Lodges of
the Jurisdiction joined in presenting a suitable program and in 120
instances the public was invited to be in attendance. The Brethren
throughout the Jurisdiction have responded well to the various requests
directed to them by the Committee, and we take this opportunity to
thank them for their support and interest. The Inspectors of the various
Districts were also of considerable assistance, and we thank them for
their help. The Committee has worked in exceptional harmony and
the utmost assistance and cooperation was apparent at all times. I wish
to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks for the efforts
which they have expended.
The Committee was particularly fortunate this year in the amount
and kind of publicity which attended our efforts, and a considerable
degree of credit in this regard is due to Brother Harry Hammond Beall
of Los Angeles.
The Committee wishes to thank those members of the Craft who
responded so well to our plea for speakers. On several occasions it was
necessary for a speaker to travel approximately four hundred miles for
the purpose of addressing a subordinate Lodge on the subject of the
Constitution.
Constitution Month observance in California has become an accepted
tradition and this is due in large part to the efforts of this Grand Lodge.
For many years we were the only fraternal organization in this state

178

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

committed to an observance of the birth of the Constitution, and by
reason of the activities of the subordinate Lodges throughout the state
other fraternal organizations and societies have joined in a general
observance of the natal day of the Constitution. This is a healthy
situation to note and augurs well for the observance of the future.
I wish to commend our Most Worshipful Grand Master, Chester
H. Warlow, who during the entire Masonic year impressed upon Mason
and citizen alike the necessity for a strict observance of this sacred
document, and may I likewise express my deep appreciation as well for
the cooperation and assistance of our Grand Secretary. Lloyd E. Wilson.
We of California may well feel proud of our splendid accomplishments in this regard, for Masonry throughout the Jurisdiction has made
a substantial contribution to the cause of good government and in
renewing our commitment to the worthy principles espoused by this
immortal document.
The Constitution of the United States is an American document.
Its antecedents are to be found in the heritage of English political history and liberty. Historic incidents which forced Magna Carta from
the King at the point of the sword, the suffering and oppression which
brought the Petition of Right, and the final achievement of the inalienable right of Englishmen in the Bill of Rights, all formed background
for the fifty-five framers of the Constitution who met in Philadelphia
for the purpose of drafting a new charter. Steeped in the philosophy of
Locke, Blackstone, and Montesquieu, they knew what governmental
structure would best preserve their concept of life. liberty. and property.
No nation in the world can in war or peace match our production
under our system of free enterprise, with its incentives and rewards for
effort. The United States has emerged from the war as the most powerful nation on earth. A system of government that has made all this
possible, that has given us the highest standard of living ever known,
that has opened the way for our amazing progress and has provided
opportunity, happiness, and blessings not enjoyed anywhere else in the
world,-such a system of government certainly is worth saving. And it.
must be saved.
To accept the substitute, a planned society, it is necessary to surrender the right to think. to surrender the mind which controls the free ·
actions of men. In a planned society education is controlled. freedom of
speech is abridged, freedom of the press is abridged, freedom of assembly is abridged. The control of the mind of man for the maintenance
of the plan is not economic democracy. It is not social justice. It is
tyranny-blind tyranny-the darkest, blackest tyranny that the human
race has ever seen.
Under the American Constitution the cause of human freedom has
been served. Human rights-the right to life, freedom of thought, re-

179

ligion, residence, press, assembly, petition and act~on, civi~ li~rty, ~~~
roperty-are promulgated and perpetuated by this Constitution w _ic
~romotes the welfare of the individual as one of many individuals making
up the nation.
Government exists for only one purpose-the prot~cti?n ~f these
rights. Its exercise of power is limited by a written consbtut:on. m ~~der
that it may never curtail these rights. As long as the Con~titution ives,
America need not dread the heel of the dictator or the disorder of anarchy.
h
h f
As America faces the future, let us pause to recollect t at t e arseeing vision of our constitutional fathers resulted in an instrum~nt of
overnment which no foe of human rights has pe~etrated and survival of
!hich has met every challenge to the natural rig~ts of ~an. Our mo~t
formidable fortress of defense in time of stress still remams the Constitution of the United States.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. R. McKAY
HARRY A. NAUMAN, JR.
JAMES T. FRASER
LEE T. MULLEN
DONALD ADAMS
JoHN D'AuLE
JoHN McRAE
WILBUR F. BRADLEY
DUDLEY H. NEBECKER
WILLIAM F. TRAVERSO
CHANG WAH LEE
EDWIN

Adopted.

s. w. ERICKSON

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Board of Directors Masonic Clubhouse, Berkeley
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California:
!he .Truste~s of the Masonic Club of The University, Berkeley,
California, continue to have a difficult problem of management and sup~
ply .. It is occasioned, in part, by the age of our building and furnishings,
but. m greater ~a.rt by the large numbers who are now using the facilities
which were originally designed for much less exacting service.
!"ir. Arthu~ Wade Wetmore, President of the student organization
during. the spring semester, has given me a summarization of the year's
operations o~ .the student ograniation. I attach a copy of that report
hereto (Exhibit A). The report shows that there is a daily use at the
Club by approximately 275 students and a maximum attendance at
social occasions of 2,050 in the fall of 1947, and 1,475 in the spring of
1948. There were 600 at the Grand Master's reception, which is by far
the largest attendance we have had on any of the many distinguished
occasions of this character.
Following the reception to the Grand Master in May of this year,
the Grand Master ventured the suggestion to the officers of the Board of
Trustees that substantial alterations and repairs in the place are re~
quired that it may properly serve the necessary uses. He suggested that
~h~ Tru~te.es cause a careful estimate to be made of the major items, and
if m their Judgment they should be done, to include them in their report
to the Grand Lodge at this session.
The Trustees at once engaged Brother A. Lewis Koue, architect, of
Oakland, to make these studies. His preliminary plans and estimate of
costs total approximately $35,000. Based on that figure, we have sub~
mitted to the Finance Committee our financial report and prQposed
1948~ 1949 Budget. In order to be as certain as possible of the validity
of the figures used in his cost estimates, I asked Brother Koue to verify
them further and, under date of October 5, 1948, he wrote me as follows:
Board of Trustees
Masonic Club of the University
c/o Milton T. Farmer
593 Market Street
San Francisco 5, California
Gentlemen :
"Herewith is the break down of the estimate as submitted for the
proposed work at the Club House which I believe is reasonably accurate
within the usual 10% tolerance, though, of course, not guaranteed.
However, every effort was made to verify the estimates and to this d
I have use~ quotations fr?m Dohrman Hotel Supply, F . E. Pinney, I~~ ..
floor covering and acoustical, Hugh Taylor, plumbing, Patterson & Elvin

181

Iron Works, fire escape, Dale Sales Inc., kitchen unit for Matron's
apartment, Anderson~Haglund general contractors and others. The
kitchen equipment has also been estimated by G. C . Laird & Sons and
East Bay Restaurant Supply Co. Since receiving your letter the estimate
was rechecked with Anderson~Haglund and we came up with an answer
$517.00 higher than the original estimate, which, at this stage, is not
enough to warrant changing the estimate.
"Pending authoriation from the Board, the plans have not been
carried beyond the preliminary stage, and at the present time they are
not developed far enough to ask for firm bids before Grand Lodge meets.
Also, it may be necessary to revise the plans depending upon the amount
authorized by Grand Lodge.
"Restudying the proposed plans, there appears to be some places
where there can be some give and take to the benefit of the job; and after
further study and within the limits of the budget, such recommendations
will be made to the committee. Bids, of course, will be taken and sub~
mitted to the Board before any contracts are let and every effort will be
made to spread the dollars as far as possible, or use as few of them as
necessary to accomplish the work.
"Since submitting the estimate a couple of conditions have come to
my notice which need consideration.
"The concrete waII on the Bowditch Street side of the basement,
leaks. It will not be too difficult to correct this at the exposed concrete
before the new finish is applied: but in the Billiard Room and at the new
Exit, the existing finish will have to be removed to bare the walls before
anything can be done. It may cost approximately $450.00 to remove and
replace this finish. This condition became evident by excessive watering
necessary to revive the lawn. In this connection, the shrubs around the
building have become much overgrown and large roots could be causing
some of the trouble. It is recommended that consideration should be
given to re~landscaping in the near future.
"Also, while working on the roof it was observed that the partial
cornice of stone which extends along the west side of the building, direct~
ly over the walkway to the service entrance is disintegrating in spots
beyond salvaging, and a portion of it has already fallen. Because of the
scaffolding necessary to get at it, it is estimated that removing this stone
and replacing it with run cement plaster will cost about 1500.00.
"In view of the above, it appears advisable to request that $4000.00
more be added to the budget for such contingencies, if still possible.
Yours truly.

A. LEWIS KouE
I take this opportunity to invite all of you to come over to .the Club
House this week at sometime convenient to you. It would seem to me that
returning from the visit to the Decato Home might afford you an oppor~

182

183

PROCEEDINGS OF TH E

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tunity to have your bus driver route you by-the Club House. Come in and
see us ~nd you will thus see for yourselves the problems that we have to
~eal with and the result of the expenditure of your money in their solution. We are proud of the Club House and of the great activity of the
students who attend so freely upon it. We recognize that it costs a lot of
money an~ it is your money that is largely so expended. We think we
do ~ good JOb, but we would like to have your personal visual inspection
!of 1t.
The budget for next year continues a heavy one. In the year just
clos~d we actually expended $14,417.53, which included $5,499.00 for
repairs and replacements. For the coming year we have asked for $13,581.~4 for our current operations, including an estimate of $3,734.67 for
repair~, replacements and other contingencies, of which an increase in
t~xes is our most threathening one. In addition to the items above menhon~d,. we. have ~sked for our usual appropriation for reserve for depre~1~tion, amortization and insurance amounting to $4,234.43 and the
additional sum of $35,000.00 for the proposed building alterations as
above outlined. The total of these requested sums is $52,815.87.
'

not under direct university control. which has the dean's approval for
lower division study. The use of the club by approximately 275 students
daily indicates the large part played by the Masonic Club and clubhouse
in the everyday college life of the students.
There are many special interest groups within the club, and there
were many activities that embraced the entire membership. There was
the Initiation dinner and dance each semester, a Parents' night, a Sports
night, Pre-Football game brunches, a Women's tea, a Mardi Gras costume dance and other informal and open-house dances. A tabulation of
the attendance at some of the more important affairs follows :

Respectfully submitted,
MILTON T. FARMER
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
WILLIAM B. HERMS
CARLISLE D. NIELSEN
BoYo B. RAKESTRAw

R P. WISECARVER
EARL WARREN
RUSSE LL

c. HORST MANN

FRANK R KILLINGER, JR.

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
Board of Trustees
University Masonic Club
Bancroft and Bowditch
Berkeley 4, California
Gentlemen :

Fall Semester
Open House ( total... ..... -----··------·-------------··-···-····--2050
Initiation dinner and dance..·-·---··--··--·----·-···--···--··- 850
Pre-game brunches -·-··---------------------------------··----·- 150
New Members Dance ···--·--------··---------------------·---- 300
Halloween Dance --··---·····-----·-----·-------------···---------- 200
Parents' Night ···---···--·--·-------------------------··------·---·· 400
Sports night and dance·-·-----·--------·-----------------··-·--· 850
Barn dance -··--------··-··--------------··-----------··-----------···· 300
Christmas dance --·-·-··-------------·------------··-----·--·-·-·-·· 600
Spring Semester
Open House (total ) --·--------------------------····------------- 1475
Initiation dinner and dance........... -------·-···---·-·--·-··· 700
Women's tea -----·--·--------·--····--···---------------------------·· 300
Informal dance --·-----···----··-----···---···------·--·-···-------·· 375
Mardi Gras Costume Dance·-···--·····----·····---·-·····-·· 500
Grand Master's Reception, dinner and dance...... 650
Exhibit " A"

August 30, 1948

The Uni_versity Masonic Club at the University of California in
Berkeley enJoyed a very successful year during the fall and spring
semesters of 1947- 48. The club membership for the fall term was 837
and 587 for the spring term.
'
~he club, being ideally situated. serves as a university home and
~eetmg place for t~e many students living in homes in the Bay Area and
1~ the ~any boarding houses surrounding the campus. It is used extensively m the evenings for study purposes and is one of the few places,

The special interest groups within the club assisted the club materially in many of the functions, and others supplied services to the club
as a whole. During the spring semester, the club newspaper came to life
as a regularly bi-monthly, six-page news sheet, and was mailed to each
member to inform him of the many activities. The photography club has
completed a dark room in the club basement and has assisted by taking
pictures at the club function. We were indeed fortunate to have the
assistance of some of the local Masons, who aided us in the dark room
construction. In addition to the above activities, many people used the
pool room, bridge tables, and ping pong tables daily.
Last Christmas, a group of the girls from the club held a Christmas
party for a ward at the Oak Knoll Veterans Hospital and presented
them with a radio-phonograph as a gift from the club members.
All of the club members, and especially the Fall President, Kenneth
Hack, and myself, are deeply grateful to Mrs. Morton, the club hostess,

184

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

for the unceasing aid and counsel she has given us throughout the year.
Without her help, many of the activities would have been impossible.
Sincerely and fraternally yours,
( Sgd.) Arthur Wade Wetmore
President, Spring 1948
University Masonic Club
Berkeley, California

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

185

Report of Board of Directors Masonic Club House
at Los Angeles
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of California:
Your Board of Directors for the Masonic Club House at Los Angeles
herewith presents its annual report.
At the board meeting on October 4, 1948, the resignation of Brother
Oscar Lawler, P. G. M .. from the chairmanship of the board was submitted and reluctantly accepted. He had served in that capacity since
May, 1946, to the satisfaction and gratification of the board. We regret
that the press of activities has compelled him to take this step, but we
are happy that he will continue as a member of the board. We value his
wise and calm counsel based as it is upon his broad experience in professional, business and civic affairs.
During the academic year which ended in June, 1948, the number
of Masonicaily affiliated students from the Westwood campus of
U. C. L. A. who joined and paid dues to the student organization at the
·club house was 651. Instruction on the southern campus of the university
starts a month later than at Berkeley, hence the present semester started
less than a month ago, but it appears that the number of paid up members
will equal or exceed the number last year.
You will be interested to know that the number of ex-G. l.'s has declined almost to the vanishing point in the student group. The present
student body is almost entirely composed of those who were in high
school during the war years. For the past several years it seemed strange
to visit the club house and have the men there introduce you to their
wives and talk about their children who were themselves near school
age. But they brought a maturity and determination to the affairs of the
dub house which contributed to the success of aII endeavors.
Last year the Board of Directors granted permission to the students
to establish a "snack" counter and tables in a part of the building. This
was the first time that meals had been served in the dub house on a daily
basis. The undertaking was and is entirely the responsibility of the
students. It met an urgent need because the more than 14,000 students
in the student body sorely taxed the restaurant facilities of the vicinity.
It began as a comparatively smaII co-operative undertaking of a few but
grew like "Topsy" and soon required full time help. During the seven
month period from October, 1947, to June, 1948, althouSJh meals were
served at cost, receipts totaled $11,173.05 or an average of $1.596.15 per
month.
From dues and revenues the students have purchased and donated
to the plant a Coca-Cola machine, a mimeograph. a smaII and a large

186

($315.00) ice cream cabinet. They have also done commendable work
of a charitable nature'. Food has been donated to the children of Europe,
sports equipment to a local Boy Scouts' Council. a Christmas party given
for the boys in the Ho11enbeck Center, an Easter party for the boys of
the McKinley Home and a dinner party for certain high school students.
Each Friday evening the students held an informal dance and each
Sunday an open evening supper. Attendance at the Friday informals
averaged between 200 and 300. Among the special occasions we may
note a few as follows:
1947

187

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Attendance

Sept. 27-Football Dance and Rally --····--·-·······-··--------------····-· 700
Oct. I 0--Popcom Ball ----··---··------------------------------------------------- 200
Oct. 24-lnformal Party ----------------------,----------------------------------'- 200
Oct. 29-Hallowe'en Party ------····----·------------------------------------- 300
Nov. 22-Autumn Promenade ---·······-····------------·-------·-··········· 350
Dec. 6--lnitiation Dance and Banquet -----------·············--··------ 360
1948
Jan. I 6-lnformal Dance --------------------------------------------····--······ 250
Feb. 27-0rientation Dance, Second Semester ···-········------·- 235
Mar. 12-Buddy Dance ---------------------------------------------------·-----·--- 500
Apr. 10--Banquet and Reception to the Grand Master ........ 500
Apr. I 6--Pan-American Fiesta -------------··-··········--·-·-·-----·-······ 500
May 8-Songs and Dances of India ····--·-··-··················--····· 400
For the coming year we have prepared a budget of the needs of the
club house as follows:
Director of Activities ·-·-·-·------..-·--··--·············----$ 2,820.00
Assistant to Director ·----·--·-----------········-·-····"·········------·- 1.920.00
Building Superintendent-} anitor Service................... . 1,350.00
Heat, Light, Water and Power .................................... .. 1.200.00
500.00
Gardener -.-·---r-···-······~·······------····-·-···--··········--·········
Stationery and Printing ················--····-·-······-----·-············
225 .00
Telephones ............. _...................................................... .
175.00
General Building Maintenance ..................................... . 1,300.00
New Kitchen Ranges ·······················----·--·········-··············
700.00
New Kitchen Exhaust Fan -....................................................................................... .
300.00
350.00
New Water Heater ·································-······················
New Dish Washina Machine ·
850.00
New Kitchen Sink-~---···············::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
250.00
New Public Address System ......................................... .
500.00
Required Fireproofing of Stage Draperies................... .
350.00
Office Expenses .. ··-----·-····--··---··-·-----·-·····-··-···---····---·····-100.00
Adding Machine ·--······------··-··------············-··-····--·······--·····
150.00
Newspapers and Periodicals ..........................................
75.00
Property Taxes and Assessments ................................. . 1.600.00

Social Security Payments············----·········--··········----···---Insurance ·······················-··········--········-······················--·····
Postage ........................................................................... .
Auditing ··················-·---········-······--··········--···--····--···········
Janitor Supplies ................................................................
Depreciation ( 1949) ..................................................... .
Miscellaneous ····························--··············------·····-----·····-

100.00
100.00
175.00
50.00
150.00
1,250.00
400.00

Total --·"·······-·-·······-··-···-----···-·····------····r··-····-..-··--···-.:$16. 940. 00
This budget is larger than that we proposed last year by $1,875.00,
but includes $2,450.00 for kitchen equipment required to replace that
which has been in use for twenty years and upon which the Health
Department no longer looks with a kindly eye. $500.00 to replace the
ten year old public address system originally installed by the students
and $150.00 for a needed adding machine. These items will not recur
for many years to come. If they are not included it will be apparent that
we have expenses in the coming year of a total less by $1,625.00 than
budgeted last year.
In conclusion, may we emphasize to the members of this Grand
Lodge that there are two Masonic Club Houses, at the Berkeley and
Los Angeles campuses of the state university, for students of Masonic
affiliation. We urge that greater publicity of that fact be given to the
members of our Lodges. Many Masons do not know that these facilities
are available. The structures themselves are beautiful. the activities
within them wholesome and benefkial.
At the request of the Grand Master earlier in the year most Lodges
carried a notice relative to these two institutions in their trestle boards.
We respectfully urge that these notices be continued from time to time
that this Grand Lodge may continue to build better young men and
young women for the morrow.
:·
Respectfully submitted,
ELLSWORTH MEYER,

Vice-chairman Board of Directors
M. W.: I move the adoption of the report except that portion pertaining
to the budget and that the same be referred to the Committee on
Finance.
Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
The Grand Master invited M.W. Wilford T. Voss, Grand Master
of Masons in Nevada, and Edward C. Peterson, Past Grand Master
and Grand Secretary of Nevada, to address Grand Lodge, which both
did to the great pleasure of the brethren assembled.

188

189

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Committee on Lodge Financing

Ocean Park Masonic Temple Association, Ocean Park. $11,000 by
cash on hand and loan of $7000 from Ocean Park Lodge No. 369 on
promissory note.
Ramona Masonic Temple Association, Monterey Park. $5000 by
loan of $5000 from Ramona Lodge No. 457, secured by first mortgage.
Buckeye Lodge No. 195, Winters. $10,000 by bank loan of same
amount.
Coalinga Lodge No. 387, Coalinga. $27,000 by cash from Lodge
general funds.
Masonic Hall Association of North Sacramento, North Sacramento.
$22,865 by loan from Masonic Cemetery Association of Sacramento.
Orosi Masonic Temple Company, Orosi. $10,000 by contributions
from Lodge members.
The following Lodges and Temple Associations received Committee consent to purchase future building sites and additions to property now owned for considerations as stated:
Bell Lodge No. 483, Bell: $6100 by cash from Lodge general funds.
Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511, Sunnyvale. $5000 by member contributions of $4000 and $1000 from Lodge general funds.
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450, Van Nuys. $16,500 by cash from Lodge
general funds.
South Bay Masonic Building Association, Redondo Beach. $2225
by loan from Redondo Lodge No. 328 on promissory note.
Point Loma Masonic Temple Association, San Diego. $7300 by
cash on hand and temporary loan of $3000 from Point Loma Lodge No.
620. To be repaid from sale of other real property owned.
Porterville Lodge No. 305, Porterville. $5100 by cash from Lodge
general funds.
York Lodge No. 423, Los Angeles. $13,500 by cash from Lodge
general funds.
This Committee has consistently recommended that title to Lodge
property be held through corporate device to eliminate liability on members. In this connection and upon request we have submitted sample
Articles of Incorporation and By-laws of a two-type membership corporation as a suggestion only, advising the Lodge in each instance to
retain independent counsel as the Committee could assume no responsibility for legal proceedings.
Requests were received and consent given to the following Lodges
to take suitable action through their members to incorporate Temple
Associations to hold title to property designed for Lodge occupancy
and to invest Lodge funds or transfer Lodge property in consideration
of obtaining the controlling interest in such Associations. The proposed
Articles of Incorporation in all cases, with one exception, embraced a
plan for raising funds to accomplish the purpose.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Lodge Financing has been called on during the
current year to pass judgement and consent or disapprove on some fifty.seven applications presented pursuant to Sections 78 and 152 of the
Constitution and Ordinances.
While building projects and necessary repairs to buildings now
owned have been held in abeyance due to high costs, the point has been
reached in many instances where further delay in building would impair
the well-being of the Lodge, and in the case of repairs be detrimental
to property. Your Committee has taken these factors into consideration
in analyzing the various applications and inquiries presented.
After your Committee has given an answer on an application, in
each instance, a complete flle on the case, including the details of the
request, necessary Lodge or building corporation resolutions, financial
statements, comments by Committee members, together with copy of
written consent is filed in the Grand Secretary's office as a part of
the records of this Grand Lodge. In view of this procedure and the
fact that many requests follow the same pattern we are listing them in
our report by Lodge or building corporation, as the case may be, with
the amount of expenditure involved and the method of financing briefly
stated, under an appropriate statement covering the nature of such
cases. However, the requests of an individual nature and those we feel
may be of particular interest have been listed separately with additional
detail.
The report of the Committee follows :
Committee consent was given to make repairs, alterations and additions to property owned by Lodges and Temple Associations in the
amounts and in the manner of financing as listed: ·
Inglewood Masonic Temple Association, In~lewood. $10,350 by
transfer of $8500 from Inglewood Lodge No. 421 , representing rents
collected from Temple Association tenants and loan of $1850, secured
by promissory note.
Temple Lodge No. 14, Sonoma. $2700 by cash from Lodge general
funds.
,'
Masonic Properties of Santa Barbara, Inc., Santa Barbara. $7685
by bank loan of like amount.
Elsinore Masonic Building Association, Elsinore, $2000 by loan of
$2000 from Elsinore Lodge No. 289 on promissory note.
Trona Lodge No. 684, Trana. $3000 by $2500 cash from Lodge
general funds and $500 in contributions from members.
Napa Masonic Hall Association, Napa. $9000 by loan of $9000
from Yount Lodge No. 12. secured by deed of trust.

I

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Be11flower Lodge No. 523, Bellflower. To incorporate Bellflower
Masonic Temple Association and transfer title to buildsite owned from
the Lodge to the Association in consideration of controlling interest.
Golden State Lodge No. 358, Los Angeles. To incorporate Golden
State Masonic Temple Association; to transfer title to building site and
amounts held in Lodge Building Fund from Lodge to Association in
consideration of controlling interest.
He~mosa Lodge No. 557, Hermosa Beach. To incorporate Hermosa
~aso~1c Temple Association and invest $500 from Lodge general funds
in voting regular memberships of Association.
Lomita Lodge No. 644, Torrance. To incorporate Lomita Masonic
Temple Association.
Bl~t~ Lodge No. 473, Blyth. To incorporate Blyth Masonic Temple
Association and transfer building site owned from Lodge to Association
in consideration of all voting regular memberships of Association.
Monterey Lodge No. 217, Monterey. To incorporate Masonic
Temple ~s~oci~tion a~d tr°:nsfer title to building and site from Lodge
to Association in consideration of voting regular memberships.
Manchester Lodge No. 585, Los Angeles. To incorporate Manchester M~sonic. Temple Association and invest $100 from Lodge general
funds m votmg regular memberships.
Artesia Lodge No. 377, Norwalk. To incorporate Artesia Masonic
Temple Association and transfer title to building site owned from
Lodge to Association in consideration of voting regular memberships.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341, Oxnard. To incorporate Oxnard Masonic
Temple Association and invest $100 from Lodge general funds in voting
regular memberships.
El ~egundo Lodge No. 507, El Segundo. To incorporate El Segundo
Masomc Temple Association and invest $100 from Lodge general funds
in voting regular membership.
Maxwe11 Lodge No. 288, Maxwell. To incorporate Maxwe11 Masonic Hall Association.
Palos Verdes ~odge No. 389, Long Beach; Atascadero Lodge No.
493, A~asca.dero; S1g~al Lodge No. 543, Long Beach. Submitted Lodge
resolut10ns 1~c~rporatmg a plan f~r raising funds for the acquisition of
land and buildings. Your Committee found no objection to the terms
of these resolutions and gave consent in each case.
Ocea~side Maso~ic Tempi~ Association, Oceanside. Application
;was ~ece1ved from this Association for permission to purchase a building sit~ a~ a cost o~ $1700. lnclu~ed was application to the Corporation
~omm1ss1oner to .issue $16,000 in non-interest bearing certificates of
indebtedness due in twenty-five years to be sold to members of Oceanside Lodge No. 381.
Estimated cost of erecting a suitable building approximated $30,000.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

191

Financial statement submitted showed cash and Government bonds
in hand tota11ing $15,891.63.
Your Committee gave consent to purchase the building site and the
issuance of $16,000 in certificate of indebtedness.
Anaheim Lodge No. 207, Anaheim. This Lodge being desirous of
acquiring a small amount of stock in the Anaheim Masonic Temple
Association held by individual members requested permission to purchase for LOdge account from general funds seven shares at not to
exceed $87.50 per share to which your Committee gave consent.
Burlingame Lodge No. 400, Burlingame. During the year consent
was given to two requests for authority to transfer the sums of $1500
and $2500 from Lodge general funds to the Burlingame Masonic Temple
Association to accelerate the reduction of a mortgage on the Temple
building. The Lodge is the sole owner of all outstanding stock of the
Temple Association.
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647, Hawthorne. To reimburse certain members of Hawthorne Lodge who advanced funds necessary to complete
the building of their Temple, consent was given to invest $2000 from
Lodge general funds in class "B" shares of Hawthorne Masonic Temple
Association.
Atwater 622 Association, Inc., Los Angeles. Consent was given to
execute a five year lease at a rental of $150 per month for quarters at
3224 Glendale Boulevard, Los Angeles, to properly house Atwater
Lodge No. 622.
·
Palm Springs Temple Association, Palm Springs. Your Committee
was requested to take jurisdiction of an application from this Association wherein they sought to change the name of their Association to
Palm Springs Masonic Temple Association, create a non-profit corporation, and transfer control of the Association from individuals to Palm
Springs Lodge No. 693. Consent was given.
Fontana Masonic Temple Association, Fontana. A plan for the dissolution of the above titled, taxable corporation, providing for the sale
of stock to individual members, and the incorporation of a membership
type. non-profit corporation, to be known as the New Fontana Masonic
Temple Association, embracing a plan for raising building funds received Committee consent. Consent was given to a subsequent application for permission to purchase a building site for the ultimate benefit
of Fontana Lodge No. 653 at a cost of $5000. Payment was to be
effected through the sale of a piece of property now owned for the
sum of $9000.
Palestine Lodge No. 351, Los Angeles. Continuing a policy of reducing interest bearing debt of Palestine Masonic Temple Association,
request was made for permission to invest $1000 from Lodge general
funds in a non-interest bearing Association note, the proceeds to be

192

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

used to retire a 5% interest bearing note held by a Lodge member. Consent was given.
.
Consuelo Lodge No. 325. Escondido. Consent was given to the incorporation of Escondido Masonic Temple Association; to the transfer
of $2757.04 contributed to a Lodge Building Fund to the Association
and to the investment of $2000 from Lodge general funds in memberships representing a controlling interest in the Association. Further consent was given to the Association to purchase a future building site for
the sum of $4300.
Nicolaus Lodge No. 129, Wheatland. This Lodge, renting facilities
from the Odd Fellows Building Association of Wheatland, in which
the Lodge owned a one-fifth interest, was apprised of the Odd Fellows
desire to sell their four-fifths interest in the property for $9000. A plan
for the acquisition of the property was submitted wherein a corporation,
designated the Masonic Hall Association of Wheatland, be organized
to take title to the property. The purchase to be financed in the following
manner for which cash was in hand:
$3925.80 investment for Lodge general funds
2174.20 contributions from members
2900.00 by members on unsecured non-interest bearing notes

Several starts toward this end were made but through unforeseen circumstances frustrated. During the year 1941 a building site was acquired. Permission to proceed with a building was obtained from the
Committee on Building Projects. Following the Declaration of War,
all activity was suspended that materials already allocated for building
might be released for use in the War Effort.

$9000.00 Total purchase price.
Your Committee gave consent to this request after reviewing Articles of
Incorporation and By-laws of the Hall Association, financial statement
of the Lodge, appraisal of building and premises and recorded building
income and expense.
Vitruvius Lodge No. 145, Bloomfield. Application was received from
the above titled Lodge for permission to repurchase the building in
which they meet, the same having been sold in 1946 in contemplation of
acquiring a new Temple. The owner agreed to resale to the Lodge at
the same price for which the property was acquired, namely $3000 cash
received as part payment plus amounts expended for repairs and incidental expense. In addition to buying the property it was proposed to
spend $12,500 on remodeling and modernization.
An examination of the Lodge finances showed sufficient cash on
hand to meet the commitment necessary to acquire the property. To
finance the remodeling and modernization members of the Lodge agreed
to contribute $2500 and to advance $10,000 on non-interest bearing
certificates of indebtedness. At the time of application the sum of $9595
had been paid in toward gilts and loans.
After a careful examination of all facts the Committee consented to
this request.
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528 and Beverly Hills Fraternal Building
Association, Beverly Hills. Over a period of years it has been the desire
. of the members of Beverly Hills Lodge to acquire their own Lodge home.

193

During this year your Committee gave consent to the Building
Association to proceed with completion of the building. Presentation of
pertinent information and investigation disclosed the ownership of
building site valued at $10,000 together with building foundation and
certain improvements totaling $26,661.28 from contributions or gifts.
It was estimated the building could be completed for $35,000. Permission was given to finance through the sale of $35,000 non-interest bearing, twenty-five year notes to members. Your Committee was kept fully
informed as the building progressed.
On completion of the building some $28,000 in notes had been sold
to in.embers and $12,500 advanced on open account by a member, the
total cost due to the purchase of equipment having exceeded the estimate
by approximately $5500. A subsequent application from Beverly Hills
Lodge for permission to loan the Building Association $12,500 secured
by first mortgage on the subject property that the advance by a member
might be repaid received Committee consent. Proforma earnings statement submitted by the Building Association provided for an annual
sinking fund of $2000 to be applied on notes and mortgage.
Foothill Temple Association, Oakland. Consent was given to this
Association with respect to the purchase of a building site for a consideration of $8500 and a plan for raising funds for building by the sale
of twenty-five year non-interest bearing obligations. At a later date
members of your Committee met with representatives of the Association
at which time we were informed that pledges to purchase notes approximated $75,000 and that some $35,000 cash had been paid in on such
pledges. It was estimated the proposed building cost would be in the
neighborhood of $115,000 and a plan of interim financing was suggested
until such time as further pledges and cash could be obtained from members. In view of your Committee having earlier consented to the plan of
raising funds through the sale of notes, we were obliged to withhold
our consent to the erection of a building until sufficient cash was in hand
to insure completion without embarrassment.
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376, South San Francisco. In view of
your Committee having disapproved an application for the erection and
method of financing a building for this Lodge during the year 194 7,
your Committee this year held a meeting with members of the Lodge
Building Committee. The method of financing offered during the year
1947 was discussed, after which your Committee prescribed certain re-

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

quirements and limitations as to mortgage debt which should be met
before consent to build could be obtained.
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59, Camptonville. At the 1947 communicaion of this Grand Lodge there was appropriated on recommendation of
the Finance Committee $13,000 to assist Gravel Range Lodge in restoring their Lodge building destroyed by fire, with provision that assistance to be rendered be left to the Chairman of the Committee on Lodge
Financing and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance to determine,
and .th~t the amount to be advanced would complete the building and
furmshmg of the temple. The Lodge had in hand in a building fund
$10,928, the major part of which represented fire insurance collected.
It was estimated the cost of building a one-story temple and furnishing
would cost, excluding carpeting, $23,506. A request for an advance of
$12,578 was made from the appropriation by Grand Lodge.
After your Grand Master had approved the plan for a one-story
structure, your Committee gave consent to proceed with the building.
The Chairman in collaboration with the Chairman of the Committee on
Finance recommended the payment to Gravel Range Lodge of $12,578
from Grand Lodge funds, the determination as to the treatment of such
advance to be left to the Committee on Finance.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546 and San Gabriel Masonic Temple Association, San Gabriel. Throughout the years a number of attempts were
made by San Gabriel Lodge to start a building program, a site for such
undertaking having been purchased in 1931. In 1945 this Committee
approved a plan and method of financing through San Gabriel Masonic
Temple Association.
Application was received for permission to invest $5000 from Lodge
general funds in San Gabriel Masonic Temple Association and for
consent to commence construction of a Masonic Temple by the Association. Financial statement of the Lodge showed cash and U. S. bonds
totalling $16,478.43; exclusive of a prior investment of $4850 in the
Association. The Temple Association balance sheet revealed net worth
of $27,102.45 with building site carried at cost or $2700.
The site presently owned was to be exchanged on an even basis for
a more favorable location offered by the City of San Gabriel. Plans and
specifications called for a one-story structure with ground floor Lodge
room. The cost of construction, exclusive of furnishings, was estimated
at $38,621.36. Money for this undertaking had been raised, principally,
through the sale of contributing memberships by the Temple Association
and the cost of building made possible by pledges of labor and material
contributions from members of San Gabriel Lodge.
After approval of the building plan by the Grand Master, your
Committee gave consent to the investment of $5000 by the Lodge and
further consent. to proceed with the erection of the temple building,
purchase material and contract for labor and materials, provided that

all contracts and material purchases shall be limited to cash in hand
at the time.
During the year two transactions involving purchases of property
by Masonic Temple Associations in sizable amounts without consent
provided for by Section 78 were brought to the attention of your Committee. In the case of Oakland Masonic Temple Association the Committee was asked to approve the action of the board of directors of
the Association of property already acquired and in the case of the
Masonic Temple Association of San Jose no application for consent
had been received. Both of these cases were referred to the Grand
Master as your Committee was of the opinion Section 78 called for
written consent of the Committee before such transactions were entered
into. Through the intervention of the Grand Master the Masonic Hall
Association of San Jose filed the required application, disclosing full
detail, and your Committee was advised that if financial circumstances
· justified to treat these applications as if made in proper time and approve
them if proper. The Committee gave consent in both cases that the
record might be cleared and the basis on which consent was given
follows:
Oakland Masonic Temple Association, Oakland. In view of entering a very favorable ground lease for the site of their building, expiring
in 1993, calling for the tearing down of the present building in 1953
and the erection of a new two story mercantile building by the lessor
to be the property of the lessee, necessitated the acquiring of another
temple building site. In January 1948 the corner of Grand and Staten
Avenues, Oakland, improved with an apartment building was acquired
for a consideration of $90,000. While the purchase was made on an
installment basis, the final payment to be made in January 1950, an
examination of the Association balance sheet showed sufficient cash in
banks to meet the total commitment. We found the Association in the
hands of excellent management and the lease consumated for the present
property exceptional and unusually good from the financial standpoint of
the Aissociation.
Masonic Hall Association of San Jose, San Jose. The application
received from this Association disclosed the purchase of a future building site on Julian Street, between Fifth and Sixth Streets. San Jose for a
purchase price of $69,000. This contract called for partial payments
with the final payment due on or before five years. We felt no difficulty
should be encountered in making payment. In our examination of the
Association balance sheet we found their total assets to be $227,079.51,
including cash and U. S. bonds of $65,739.46. In our further investigation of this request we were furnished with resolutions approving the
purchase by five San Jose Lodges, the majority stockholders in the
Temple Association, together with financial statements from four of the
Lodges. These financial statements showed a healthy and prosperous
condition.

195

196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In addition to applications requiring majority Committee attention
many conferences were held with officers and members of Lodges by individual members of this Committee relative to problems of Lodge
financing. Our files show correspondence with Alamo Lodge No. 122,
Inspector Clarence L. Fraser for Reedley Lodge No. 304, Tyrian Lodge
No. 439, Tujunga Lodge No. 592, Smyrna Lodge No. 532, Inspector
Alexander D. Potts for Hawaiian Lodges, Fresno Lodge No. 247,
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380, Torrance Lodge No. 447, San Carlos
Lodge No. 690, Searchlight Lodge No. 567, Arroyo Lodge No. 274,
Grizzly Lodge No. 601, Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448, Welcome Lodge
No. 255, Unity Lodge No. 368, Vista Masonic Temple Association,
Cinosam Temple Association, Inspector James W. Robinson for Corinthian Lodge No. 9, Inspector Guy B. Mize for Crescenta Valley Lodge
No. 652 and Mosaic Lodge No. 218. This correspondence covered
principally inquiries on Lodge financing replied to by the Committee
Chairman, but in no such case was approval given to the expenditure
of Lodge or Temple Association funds.
It is observed in the past two years four Masonic Temples have
been destroyed by fire. In each case the fire insurance carried is only
a small proportion of replacement cost. Your Committee is therefore
prompted to suggest to Lodges and Temple Associations that they carefully examine the insurance coverage for fire and other hazards on
buildings with the view of securing adequate coverage commensurate
with present day appraisals and costs.
Although the task of the Committee during the past year has been
arduous, as Chairman, I can report to you that all problems presented
have had our unbiased and sympathetic attention in an endeavor to
carry out the purpose for which the Committee was appointed. I would
be remiss if I did not express my appreciation to the members of the
Committee for their willing cooperation in accepting assignments and
giving many hours of time in carrying out the responsibilities of Committee membership.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER L. BERGER
WALTON E. HOLMES
RICHARD A. STEVES
WALTER PYBON
DoN G. CAMPBELL
ALBERT T. LUCK

E. HERBERT PHILLIPS
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

197

Columbia Temple Restoration Committee
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Columbia Temple R-estoration begs leave to
submit the following report :
At the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge, the Committee on Finance in its report withholding recommendation of an appropriation for the proposed rebuilding the old Temple at Columbia, in part
stated as follows:
"Your Committee on Finance is in sympathy with the plan to rebuild
the old Temple."
"However, in its judgment the information now on hand is not sufficient to warrant the recommendation of an appropriation."
"The following information should be furnished to the Committee:
1. Complete information as to the plans of the State Park Commission
for the restoration of the old community together with information
as to progress already made.
2. Complete plans and specifications of the proposed building, so that
further check might be made on the probable cost.
3. List of the proposed furnishings of the building, together with an
estimate of the cost of same.
4. The proposed plan for the future use and occupancy of the building
together with an estimate of costs of operation."
No. I-HISTORY AND PLANS OF PARK COMMISSION FOR RESTORATION
OP COLUMBIA AND PROGRESS ALRBADY MADE

In 1928 Frederick L. Olmstead, an architectural engineer of national
reputation, was retained by the State to make a comprehensive survey
throughout the Mother Lode Country and report on the old mining town
which, in his judgment, was more nearly representative of the mining
communities of the '50's and which was best suited to be constituted a
State Historical Park and incorporated into the State Park System of
California under the jurisdiction and control of the California State
Park Commission.
In 1932 Mr. Olmstead filed his report setting forth his reasons for
choosing the town of Columbia, Tuolumne County, as the one town best
suited, from present state ·of preservation and historical background, to
the declared policy of the State to establish a historical park in California
somewhat along the lines of the Williamsburg, Virginia project where
an entire city, much larger than Columbia is being reconstructed and the
existing old time buildings are being rehabilitated to take on the identical
appearance they originally had. This rebuilding of Williamsburg, Virginia up-ta-date has cost 20- million dollars and there are approximately
100 more buildings to !'ecreate.
In 1945 Mr. Ol:Mstead filed a supplementary report on the Columbia

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

project recommending the extention of the original area of the Park.
The recommendation was adopted by the State Park Commission.
The California Legislature in 1945 appropriated $50,000.00 for the
purpose of acquiring property in the town of Columbia, and the act sets
forth the plan of acquisition for the area. A copy of the Act accompanying this report is marked Exhibit "A". A copy of the original Olmstead
map outlining the Park boundaries is attached to this report and made a
part hereof and marked Exhibit "B".

In 1947 Dr. Aubrey Neasham, Regional Historian for the National
Park Service, was given a leave of absence and was retained by the
California Park Commission as Special Consultant on the Columbia
Park project and is now compiling a historical summary and recommendation preparatory to the creation of a Master Plan for the preservation
and development of Columbia Historical State Park. It is anticipated that
this Plan will be completed during the early part of 1949.
The California State Park Commissioners' meeting in San Francisco,
September 17, 1948 approved Dr. Neasham' s recommendation to the
extension of the boundaries for Columbia Historical State Park. These
recommendations for extension of the boundaries were vital for the
proper administration, protection, development and interpretation of
Columbia State Park. This Master Plan will assure the preservation of
the lot upon which it is proposed to reconstruct the old Masonic Temple.
As soon as the Master Plan is completed and adopted by the Commission, work on the restoration of the old buildings will be pursued as
rapidly as money is available. It is impossible to estimate how long it
will take to fully complete the present program of rehabilitation and reconstruction. It will probably take several years. But the State is definitely pledged to the restoration of this historical Park and its future
maintenance.
Attached to this report and marked Exhibit "D" is a photostatic map
prepared by Dr. Neasham of the part area showing in black the principle
buildings now standing. In addition, outstanding historical structures no
longer in existence, including the Masonic Hall, are shown with dotted
lines. A key to said map accompanies it.
Also, there is attached hereto a map in colors marked Exhibit "E"
repared by Dr. Neasham protraying the areas within the Columbia
project to be acquired by the State of California. The proposed acquisition will be acquired in the order of their priority as follows:

198

In 1947 the State Legislature appropriated the further sum of $40,000.00 for acquisition of property in Columbia. A full summary of the
several appropriations up-to-date toward the establishment of the Columbia State Park is also attached to his report and marked Exhibit "C".
On July 15, 1945, Governor Earl Warren signed the Mayo Bill
creating Columbia a State Park.
On December 24, 1946 the Columbia Historical Park Association,
a non-profit corporation, was duly incorporated under the laws of California. This Corporation was authorized and required to act in an advisory capacity to the California State Park Commission in the matter
of the Columbia Park.
·
This Corporation was also empo~ered to raise money by subscription, gift and otherwise, to match sums appropriated by the Legislature
for acquisition purposes. Up.-to-date the Corporation has raised the sum
of $39,880.00 as matching money and through property gifts and from
other sources has acquired the further sum of $10,000.00 for said matching purposes, making up-to-date the sum of $49,880.00 so saised. Included in this amount is the sum of $2,500.00 appropriated by the Tuolumne County Board of Supervisors.
The 1947 Legislature appropriated an additional sum of $50,000.00
for the purpose of the study and development of a Master Plan of
"Restoration, development, preservation, construction and improvement
of the town of Columbia within the established Park area and any
further area to be so incorporated." In addition to the above sums there
were budgetary appropriations available for use in the Columbia Park
as follows:
Water Supply ·······························-······-··············--.. $120,000.00
Structural Preservation and General Cleanup........
7,000.00
Office and Control Building......................................
1,000.00
Sewerage Development ............................................ 10,000.00
Power ........................................................................
2,000.00
Total

$140,000.00

The State Division of Architecture is at the present time working on '
plans for the water and sewerage systems to be installed.

1-Yellow Area.
2-Red Area.
J.--Blue Area.
4-Green Area.
The Park Commission has already acquired by purchase 85-percent
of the property in the area which on this map is colored in yellow.
It has also been recommended by Dr. Neasham, in addition to the
area acquired, that Tuolumne County pass zoning laws to protect the
setting of old Columbia. Such zoning would be effective at least one mile
on all sides of the boundaries as set forth in Exhibit "E". It is also proposed that all approach highways and roads leading into Columbia be
zoned to prevent undesirable encroachments on the historical scene and
setting.

200

201

PROCEEDfNGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

There are eleven ( 11 ) blocks included in the central area covered
by priority No. 1, and in this particular section there are approximately
thirty-six ( 36) outstanding historic structures including store buildings, hotels and residences which date back to the 1850's and 1860's.
The so-called central area has a present population of approximately
one-hundred ( 100) persons and there are within the vicinity of Columbia five-hundred ( 500) persons.
Forest Park Ranger, Al Beck, who resides in Columbia, is in immediate charge of the Park and according to his records there have been
during the present year 58,285 visitors from all sections of the United
States.

the Columbia Park, but is entirely too lengthy a document to be set out
in full herein. This statement was issued by the Commission to aid
in clarifying public understanding of the· purposes and policy of the
Commission in regard to the Columbia State Park.
Attached to this report and marked Exhibit "G" is a list of business
houses, public buildings and some residences in Columbia to be restored
and preserved.
The plans of the Commission call for the elimination, not only of
automobile parking in the streets, but also prohibition of the use of
automobile by visitors and sight-seers within the Park. It is proposed to
provide parking space outside the area where historic structures are
predominant.
.
The College of the Paciflc purchased the old Fallon Theatre m
Columbia which is situated across the street from the site of the Masonic
Temple. The College has given the Commission title to this property
and is leasing the theatre and 'the Fallon Hotel. Dr. Robert Bums,
President of the College, informs us that the College will put on plays
of the "Fifties" during the summer months and house its Little Theatre
players in the Fallon Hotel.

Mr. E. E. Powell of Stockton, District Superintendent, will be in
charge of the restoration work. Said work will be done in accordance
with th~ Master Plan. He will have available a sufficient force of men
from the Division of Parks and Beaches to carry on his work.
It has been suggested that the following buildings. no longer standing, be fully reconstructed from the ground up because of their historical importance and need for them.
Masonic Temple.
Broadway Hotel.
Methodist Church, North.
Chinese Joss House.
The policy of the State Park Commission relative to rebuilding of
structures within the Park limits is in part set forth in a letter your
Committee received from Mr. A. E. Henning, Chief Division of Beaches
and Parks as follows:
"The Odd Fellows and the Native Sons of the Golden West
are two fraternal type of organizations who intend doing restoration work. The State Park Commission, if "funds are available. will no doubt finance some of the rebuilding of structures
within the Park limits but not for any fraternal organizations."
It is proposed by Dr. Neasham to rebuild the old Broadway Hotel
which adjoins the Masonic Temple on the east, on Broadway. This
would be reconstructed by the State for the purpose of furnishing
visitors to the Park accommodations overnight, and otherwise, for
compensation. This system was also inaugurated in Williamsburg,
where one of the old historic Inns was fully restored and where visitors
may study during their visit to the project paying for meals and room
accommodations.
Preliminary discussions have .been held with some of the San Francisco Chinese to flnance the rebuilding of the famous old Joss House in
Columbia.
Attached to this report and marked Exhibit "F" is an exhaustive
$tatement as to the purpose and policies of the Commission relative to

No. 2-PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS OP PROPOSED TEMPLE AND
ESTIMATE CosT OP SAME

The plans and specifications have been prepared by the architect,
Bro. Wm. Mooser, and about two weeks ago I had sent to Worshipful
Arthur S. Crites, Chairman of the Finance Committee, a copy of same
for his perusal and study. Brother John Klarquist, P. M., a buil~er .of
reputation throughout Southern California, a member of Wilshire
Lodge No. 445 of Los Angeles and a member of this Commit~ee
has estimated the cost of rebuilding the Temple in accordance with
the plans and specifications accompanying this report and marked
Exhibit "H''. at the cost of $38,204.00 and there is attached hereto a
quantity survey listing all material as well as a breakdown of all separate
costs of the building.
No. J.-LisT oP PROPOSED FURNISHINGS AND ESTIMATE CosT OP SAME

Some time ago your Committee addressed a letter to 250 of the old
Lodges in California asking if they would ~ willing to donate .any surplus Lodge furniture and paraphernalia not m use th~t ~~ul~ aid in setting up a Lodge room with the atmosphere of the . Fifties . Attached
hereto is a copy of the list of articles desired for this purpose.
We have received many replies which leads us to believe that all
Lodge furniture and paraphernalia will be donated by ~dges or in·
dividuals with the possible exception of an Altar, Secretary sand Treasurer's table, Tiler's desk and seating facilities for members.
In any event, Masonic furniture and paraphernalia necessary to

202

203

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

carry on Masonic work and not donated will not cost in excess of
$200.00
In order to give the Lodge room the appearance and atmosphere
of the " Fifties", it is proposed that the seats for members be wooden
benches ·with back rests, that the heating consist of old time stoves with
Butane heating units installed. That the lighting system consist of elec~
tric light globes set in old fashioned lamps with chimney and reflectors
and hung by brackets on the sides of the wall and that the windows have
old fashioned shades or blinds.
The furniture and other facilities necessary to carry out this motif
and the est~mated cost thereof are as follows:
8 window shades-54" x 78" @ $4.68....................................$ 37.44
2 old fashion stoves @ $25.00 eada-········································ 50.00
2 sets of stove pipes 18'@ 20c per ft.·-····-············-··-··········· · 7.20
20 old lamps with chimneys, reflectors and wall
brackets @ $2.'98.-.......................,.......................................... 59.60
4 benches with back rests, capacity 50 persons )
)
2 Tables for Secretary and Treasurer
) .................... 250.00
1 Tiler's desk
)
)
1 Altar
2 Propane burners 100,000 BTU per hour @ $98.00 each...... 196.00
Automatic safety cut~off and pilots......:..._.............................. 150.00
Storage cylinder or tank-250 gallon capacity........................ 165.00
Other furniture and paraphernalia noted on page 10............ 200.00

families and make of the trip and Masonic activities an agreeable and
enjoyable occasion. For this use of the Lodge rooms, it has become a
practice to voluntarily contribute to the funds of the Lodge to repay for
light. heat and janitorial service. It is further recommended that the
lower story be rented for a reasonable period at a reasonable rental to
any commercial enterprise agreeable to the Park Commission and con~
sistent with historical tradition.
.
There is no provision .made in the plans of this building for any
banquet room, kitchen space or facilities for preparing or furnishing
food or refreshment. Therefore, no cost for such equipment has been
included in this report.

$1,115.20
We have not included cost for electric wiring in this report for the
reason that Brother Klarquist has included that item in his estimate of
cost.
No. 4-PRoPosED PLAN FOR FUTURE UsE AND OccuPANCY oP THE
BUILDING AND ESTIMATE CosT OP OPERATION

To which the Committee has added " Estimated Income".

It is recommended that the Lodge room be made available for Ma~
sonic Degree work under authority duly granted by the Grand Master.
It is also recommended that the Lodge room be used for dances, socials
and other public and semi~public uses consistent with the purposes and
policy of State Park ownership and maintenance. For such uses a rea~
sonable charge should be made which will assist in paying operation
and maintenance costs. It has been a common custom in late years for
Lodges in the valleys and cities to sojourn to some of the old Mother
Lode towns and there confer Degrees in the old historic Temples of
the early days, and in furtherance of this, they at times take their

JANITORIAL SERVICE:
This item will, in the main, greatly depend upon the use made of the
Lodge room. This service consisting of lighting the rooms, preheating
in cold weather and clean~up service after the meetings should not
exceed $35.00 per month. and 5 meetings per month is probably a rea~
sonable estimate for the use of the room. Upon this basis, it would cost
approximately $35.00 per month, or per year for such services $420.00.
LIGHTS
According to the P. G & E Company in Columbia the cost for lights
·
per month would 'b e:
25 hours per month-$1.48 per month-Whole year........- ......$17.76
HEAT
According to residents of Columbia a maximum of 5 months per
year is a conservative estimate of the period heat will be required in
this hall.
Heating with Butane, based upon experience in Lodge rooms in com~
munities with comparable ranges of temperature, with an estimated use
similar to that which will probably obtain in Columbia, that is:
5 nights per month for 5 hours each and, in accordance fith
current rates for Butane in this community, the expense for
heating would be 25~cents per gallon per hour for 5 months
per year ..•............................................~-···-:··--~..--.-131 .25
WATER:
Water rates for this character of building within the Park
area will cost not to exceed, per year.............- ···-····························-$15.00
Insurance ······················-·-·---··--··-·•·························$150.00
TOTAL ·-······················-··-··------·······································-~·Ol
There will be no taxes assessed against the property-it being in
the ownership of the State.

204

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

INCOME:
Reasonably expected revenues as rent from the lower flo~r
should amount to at least $35.00 per month or, per year.............. $420.00
Reasonably expected revenue from the Lodge room if Degrees and social uses are permitted is conservatively estimated
at $25.00 per month or, per year...................................................... 300.00
Making a TOT AL Yearly Income 0£...................................... 720.00
To RECAPITULATE:
Estimated Yearly Revenue ...................................................... $720.00
Estimated Yearly Expense........................................................ $634.01
The erection of the Temple of Columbia Lodge No. 28 was completed in 1855 and was occupied by the Lodge until the gravels gave
out and the old Lodge was forced to surrender its Charter in 1891, and
consolidate with Tuolumne No. 8 at Sonora.
The title to the lot upon which the Temple stood is now vested in
the State of California.
In 1947 the Chairman of this Committee wrote the Hon. Joseph R.
Knowland, Chairman of the State Park Commission, inquiring as to the
policy of the Commission with respect to leasing property in Columbia, ·
and the following is the reply addressed to the Chairman:
Aug. 22, 1947
"Leon 0. Whitsell,
Burlingame, Calif.
My Dear Mr. Whitsell:

It has been understood by the State Park Commission that the
Grand Lodge of Masons of the State of California will be given premission to erect a replica of the old Masonic Temple on the ground
which they have acquired, upon which the old building stood, in the
town of Columbia, now owned by the California State Park Commis-sion. A satisfactory lease will be made by the State to whatever body
may desire to enter unto such a lease representating the Masonic
Fraternity of California.
Fraternally yours,
J. R. Knowland, Chairman
Park Commission."
Your Committee has also written the Park Commission as to its
attitude and policy toward granting permission to rent the lower story of
the proposed Temple at Columbia and the following is the reply from

205

Chairman Knowland and also a copy of the resolution adopted by the
Commission in its official meeting on June 11th and 12th, 1948.
Division of Beaches and Parks,
Department of Natural Resources,
Sacramento, Calif.
May 24, 1948
"Mr. Leon 0. Whitsell.
1565 Newlands Avenue,
Burlingame, Calif.
Dear Mr. Whitsell:
If you should be given a lease on the property and agree to maintain
it then I would recommend to the Commission that any rental you receive from the ground floor should go to your organization. We can
make a satisfartory lease at a nominal rate.
I feel that the Grand Lodge will have made a great contribution to
Columbia by re-erecting this building.
Fraternally yours,
J. R. Knowland."
RESOLUTION OF CALIFORNIA STATE PARK COMMISSION ADOPTED
AT !Ts MEETING JUNE 11 AND 12, 1948

Columbia Histric State Park
Chief Henning presented correspondence relative to the reconstruction of the Masonic Temple in the Columbia Historic State Park,
in which it was stated that the Lodge desires to lease land from the State
of California for the reconstruction of the Temple and wherein permission was asked to rent the lower portion of such building in order to use
rental moneys for the maintenance of the building. It was moved by
Commissioner Waldner that the Staff enter into negotiations for lease
satisfactory to the Grand Masonic Lodge of California to this Commission. Seconded by Commissioner Carrillo and approved.
The Mother Lode will be the great magnet drawing our visitors to
those localities in the mountains where Masonic romance flourished and
where the Masonic Temple was in reality the religious center for those
hard working and hard playing miners in the early days.
If the Temple in this "Williamsburg of the West" is rebuilt and
properly maintained it will be a Masonic Shrine to which the history
hungry California Masons will visit and revisit and it will stimulate a
healthy interest and pride in our past-a pride, not only in the minds of
the older members of our Fraternity but also in the minds and hearts
of the young, virile new members who must be prepared and equipped

206

207

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

to carry on so that Masonry in California may ultimately reach that
high destiny to which its glorious past entitles it.
California Masonry needs the stimulating influence of the years
that are gone; it needs to again commune with the strong Masonic
spirits of the Mountains-the spirits of men who in the long ago had
visions and in those visions saw and foretold the great part which Masonry was destined to play in this State and its ever expanding institutions.
Let us rebuild the old Temple in the Mountains.
Let us provide under proper supervision that Degrees may be conferred therein, that the members of our Lodges may gain inspiration in
that atmosphere redolent with memories of the men who so many years
ago held high the banner of Masonry in those old hills until the gravels
were exhausted and they were compelled to seek the illusive metal
elsewhere.
Columbia will be to the West what Williamsburg is to the Easta historical Shrine. When the old buildings now standing are fully restored in structure and appearance as in the "Fifties". and the buildings
which have heretofore been torn down and destroyed are rebuilt, this
old erstwhile ghost town will be the pride, not only of the Mother Lode
but the pride of the entire State of California.
This old Masonic Temple should be rebuilt as it was in the "Fifties"
and should be so maintained that the Lodges of California, that desire:
may sojourn to that historic spot and confer Degrees on their candidates,
upon appropriate and convenient occasions.
Th~ lower story should at a later date be prepared as a Masonic
museum.
I have no doubt that then within a reasonable time, sufficient Masonic items of historical interest will be forthcoming and a museum
could be established and maintained which would be of tremendous
interest to members of the Craft and the layity as well.
./
The year 1950 will be a red-letter year in California history as well
as Masonic history. That year will mark the centennial of the admission
of California into the Union, and the beginning of Grand Lodge Masonry in California.
Thousands of history minded people from all over the United States
will visit our State. Men and women from the Eest will come seeking
the localities and scenes where their relations worked ancf'labored and
met with either success or failure, during the hectic days of the greatest
search for gold in the history of the world.
Masons from all sections of the Union, as well as from foreign countries will come to join with us in celebrating our first century of Masonic
existence. Masonry should be ready for them.
Approved of the following resolution by this Grand Lodge shall not

become effective until Plan "B" and Specifications accompanying it shall
have received the approval of the California State Park Commission as
required by law.
Your Committee on rebuilding the Temple at Columbia submits
the following Resolution and moves its adoption.
I-That it is the policy of the Grand Lodge to rebuild the old Masonic Temple at Columbia on the site last occupied by Columbia ·
Lodge No. 28.
2-That the sum of $38,204.00 be appropriated and set aside for that
purpose.
3-That a Committee be appointed by the incoming Grand Master
to enter into a contract in the name of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California for
the rebuilding of the old Temple in Columbia for a sum not to
exceed $38,204.00.
4-That said Temple be constructed in accordance with Plans and
Specifications made and prepared by Brother Wm. Mooser of
San Francisco. A copy of said Plans accompany this report
marked Exhibit "H'' and a copy is filed in the office of the Grand
Secretary.
5-That upon the completion and acceptance of said building by the
said Committee that there be filed by them with Grand Lodge a report
setting forth complete Plans for the future, care, operation and maintenance of said building, together with the necessary rules and regulations to govern same.
Respectfully submitted for the Committee
LEON 0. WHITSELL

~-

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
Committee on Finance.
At 4:55 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Wednesday.

208

209

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Wednesday, October 13, 1948

the By-Laws must be strictly complied with. He should carefully read
and check them when he takes office.
All the following amendments have been approved by the Grand
Secretary and the Grand Master as to form and Masonic Law requirements. Our Committee have carefu1ly examined and approved them and
recommend their approval by Grand Lodge:

MORNING SESSION

Grand Lodge was called on at 9: 30 A. M. the Grand Master presiding.
The invocation was given by the Grand Chaplain. Chas. W. Stewart
Past Master of Fresno Lodge No. 247, presided in the East at the entrance of the Grand Lodge Officers.
The minutes of both the Morning and Afternoon Sessions of Tuesday, October 12th, were read and approved.
Adopted.
Report of Committee on Credentials
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Credentials makes the report that of 590 Lodges,
560 are represented. Also a11 of the six lodges under dispensation. Total
registration 1,709.
Respectfully submitted,
Loms SuTIER
ARTHUR B. LEDBETI'ER
RALPH HEAD
NEIL B. Ross
EGGERT ROHWER
JoHN H. RuTIER
BALLARD WHITE, JR.

Adopted.
Report of Committee on By-Laws
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws have had under consideration the two
hundred eighteen resolutions affecting by-laws and life membership
resolutions. Twenty-three lodges increased their fees-<>nly four lodges
decreased fees. Twenty-three lodges increased their dues. We feel this
action denotes a healthy condition of those Masonic Lodges. Three
lodges .fixed an affiliation fee-one rescinded an affiliation fee. Twenty
lodges passed amendments changing date, time, or meeting place of
stated meetings. Five amendments provided for holiday meeting. Nine
Lodges adopted the Uniform Code of By-Laws. Only one set of ByLaws could not be approved and must be continued for future amendment.
It is our thought that during the past year the Masters have given
special attention to checking their By-Laws; we suggest that this practice be continued. The installation ceremony admonishes the Master that

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Benicia Lodge No. 5 to $75.00: Golden Gate Lodge
No. 30, to $100.00; Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, to $100.00: Forbestown
Lodge No. 50, to $50.00; Vesper Lodge No. 84, to $100.00; Visalia
Lodge No. 128, to $75.00: Curtis Lodge No. 140, to $50.00: Welcome
Lodge No. 255, to $75.00: Kilauea Lodge No. 330, to $125.00: Pinole
Lodge No. 353, to $75.00; le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371, to
$125.00; Lodge Maui No. 472 ,to $85.00: George Washington Lodge
No. 525, to $100.00; Loyalty Lodge No. 529, to $125.00; Signal Lodge
No. 543, to $100.00; Fairfax Lodge No. 556, to $100.00: Santa .Maria
Lodge No. 580, to $80.00; Rialto Lodge No. 582, to $75.00: Angeles
Mesa Lodge No. 625, to $100.00: Veritas Lodge No. 640, to $100.00:
James A. Foshay Lodge No. 641, to $100.00: Liberal Arts Lodge No.
677, to $125.00: Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691, to $100.00.
Decreasing fees: Charity Lodge No. 362, to $50.00; Melrose Lodge
No. 602, to $75.00; Composite Lodge No. 639, to $125.00: Greenleaf
Lodge No. 670, to $75.00.
Increasing dues: Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, to $12.00: Plumas
Lodge No. 60, to $12.00: Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76, to $12.00:
Vesper Lodge No. 84, to $12.00; Visalia Lodge No. 128, to $15.00;
Welcome Lodge No. 255, to $12.00; Lompoc Lodge No. 262, to $12.00:
Selma Lodge No. 277, to $12,00; Redlands Lodge No. 300, to $10.00;
Porterville Lodge No. 303, to $12.00; Willits Lodge No. 365, to $12.00;
Coachella Lodge No. 476, to $12.00; Lebanon Lodge No. 495, to $15.00;
Ascot Lodge No. 538, to $12.00; Belvedere Lodge No. 539, to $12.00;
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559, to $10.00; Searchlight Lodge No. 567, to
$12.00; Garden Grove Lodge No. 586, to $12.00; Tujunga Lodge No.
592, to $12.00; John Marsha]} Lodge No. 636, to $12.00; Veritas Lodge
No. 640, to $15.00; Hawthorne Lodge No. 647, to $12.00; La 1'rea
Lodge No. 650, to $15.00.
Fixing afllliation fee: Forbestown Lodge No. 50, at $5.00; Rialto
Lodge No. 582, at $5.00; Palm Springs Lodge No. 693, at $15.00.
Rescinding afllliation fee: Visalia Lodge No. 128.
Changing date of stated meetings: Guadalupe Lodge No. 237;
Hanford Lodge No. 279; Madera Lodge No. 280; Fremont Lodge No.
497; Covenant Lodge No. 527: James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566; San
Carlos Lodge No. 690; Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691,

211

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Changing time of stated meetings: Visalia Lodge No. 128: Buena
Park Lodge No. 357; Meridian Lodge No. 667.
Providing for holiday meetings: San Diego Lodge No. 35: Visalia
Lodge No. 128; Wilshire Lodge No. 445; Catalina Island Lodge No.
524: San Antonio Lodge No. 694.
Adopting -Uniform Code of By.Laws: Visalia Lodge No. 128: La
Jolla Lodge No. 518; Meudell Lodge U.D.; St. Elmo Lodge U.D.:
Crossroads Lodge U.D.; William D. Stephens Lodge U.D.; Bixby
Knolls Lodge U.D.: Ponderosa Lodge U.D.
Miscellaneous: Hanford Lodge No. 279; West Gate Lodge No. 335.

Plymouth No. 560.
The Gardens No. 621
James A. Foshay No. 641.
We recommend that the following Resolutions be approved. They
have been approved by the Grand Secretary and the Grand Master as to
form and Masonic Law requirements:

210

RESOLUTIONS

Providing for change of meeting place: Fallbrook Lodge No. 317;
Golden State Lodge No. 358: Fremont Lodge No. 497; Covenant Lodge
No. 527: Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528: James A. Garfield Lodge No.
566: John Marshall Lodge No. 636; La Brea Lodge No. 650: San Carlos
Lodge No. 690.
We have also carefully examined one hundred twenty·eight Reso·
lutions affecting Life Membership. Most Lodges secured from the Grand
Secretary the form complying with Section 253 of Ross Digest. Eleven
Resolutions have been continued to next year because of additional in·
formation needed before our Committee can approve same. The entire
Resolution as amended should be sent in, and not only the paragraph
amended. In one case the original resolution was lost, and had not been
spread on the minutes of the lodge. (We recommend the resolution al·
ways be incorporated in the minutes). The lodge this year passed an
amendment raising the amount charged for Life Membership. We could
not approve it because neither we nor they knew what was in the origin·
al resolution, and it also could not be ascertained as to whether or not
it conformed to Section 253. They are going to pass a new resolution.
When in doubt as to any point, we would recommend that the Secretary
or Master write to the Grand Secretary. Correct information is always
available from him. The Life Membership provision is now handled by
a standing Resolution, and it should conform to Section 253 of Ross
Digest.
We recommend that the following Resolutions be continued to the
next Communication of Grand Lodge:
Clay Lodge No. 101. ·
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292.
Palos Verdes No. 389.
Montebello No. 451.
Silver Trowel No. 415.
Schofield No. 443.
Woodstock No. 491.
Fairfax No. 556

LIPE MEMBERSHIPS

The Grand Master approved resolutions providing for life member·
ships in the following Lodges:
Increasing fee: California Lodge No. 1, to $250.00; Western Star
Lodge No. 2, to $250.00: Washington Lodge No. 20, to $300.00;
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, to $300.00; Mariposa Lodge No. 24, to
$250.00: Howard Lodge No. 37, to $250.00: Mount Moriah Lodge
No. 44, to $300.00; Forbestown Lodge No. 50, to $250.00: Union Lodge
No. 58, to $250.00: Live Oak Lodge No. 61, to $250.00: Naval Lodge
No. 87, to $250.00: Oroville Lodge No. 103, to $250.00; Arcata Lodge
No. 106, to $250.00: Chico Lodge No. 111, to $250.00: Fidelity Lodge
No. 120. to $312.50; Visalia Lodge No. 128, to $500.00; Pacific Lodge
No. 136, to $250.00; Crockett Lodge No. 139, to $400.00; Molino Lodge
No. 150, to $400.00; Excelsior Lodge No. 166, to $250.00; Antioch
Lodge No. 175, to $250.00: Oakland Lodge No. 188, to $250.00; Wilmington Lodge No. 198, to $250.00: Stanislaus Lodge No. 206, to
$250.00; Anaheim Lodge No. 207, to $250.00: King David's Lodge No.
209, to $250.00: Oak Grove Lodge No. 215, to $250.00; Doric Lodge
No. 216, to $250.00; Downey Lodge No. 220, to $250.00: Bakersfield
Lodge No. 224, to $250.00; San Mateo Lodge No. 226. to $375.00:
Solona Lodge No. 229, to $250.00: Hope Lodge No. 234, to 0250.00;
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241. to $300.00: Pomona Lodge No. 246. to
$400.00; Alturas Lodge No. 248, to $275.00; Reading Lodge No. 254,
to $250.00; Lodi Lodge No. 256, to $250.00; Pasadena Lodge No. 272, to
$250.00: East Gate Lodge No. 290, to $250.00; Liberty Lodge No. 299,
to $250.00: Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, to $250.00; Fullerton Lodge No.
339, to $250.00: Oxnard Lodge No. 341. to $250.00: Sequoia Lodge
No. 349, to $250.00; Mill Valley Lodge No. 356, to $312.50: San
Francisco Lodge No. 360, to $250.00: Charity Lodge No. 362, to
$250.00: Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, to $250.00; South Pasadena Lodge
No. 367, to $250.00: Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380, to $350.00:
El Centro Lodge No. 384, to $250.00; Imperial Lodge No. 390. to
$300.00: West Lake Lodge No. 392. to $250.00: Turlock Lodge No. 395.
to $350.00: Fraternity Lodge No. 399, to $250.00: Las Mesa Lodge No.
407, to $500.00; Honolulu Lodge No. 409, to $300.00: Charter Rock
Lodge No. 410, to $250.00: Calexico Lodge No. 412, to $250.00; Arling·
ton Lodge No. 414, to $250.00: Elysian Lodge No. 418, to $250.00;
Fairmount Lodge No. 435, to $250.00; Crocker Lodge No. 454, to

212

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

$300.00; Golden West Lodge No. 455, to $250.00; Paul Revere Lodge
No. 462, to $250.00; Culver City Lodge No. 467, to $500.00; Yorba
Linda Lodge No. 469, to $250.00; America Lodge No. 475, to $250.00;
Albert Pike Lodge No. 484, to $250.00; Vallejo Lodge No. 487, to
$250.00; Patterson Lodge No. 488, to $300.00; Acorn Lodge No. 494,
to $250.00; Harbor Lodge No. 502, to $250.00: Cahuenga Lodge No.
513, to $250.00; Euclid Lodge No. 519, to $300.00; Covenant Lodge
No. 527. to $250.00: Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, to $250.00; Loyalty
Lodge No. 529, to $400.00; Sun Garden Lodge No. 530, to $250.00;
Seal Rock Lodge No. 536, to $250.00: Henry Morse Stephens Lodge
No. 541, to $250.00; Signal Lodge No. 542, to $250.00; Glendale Lodge
No. 544, to $250.00: Jonathan Lodge No. 545, to $250.00; East San
Diego Lodge No. 561, to $250.00; Pyramid Lodge No. 562, to $250.00;
South Park Lodge No. 563, to $300.00; Service Lodge No. 594, to
$250.00: Granada Lodge No. 608, to $300.00; Hemet Lodge No. 615,
to $250.00: Neptune Lodge No. 619, to $250.00; Menorah Lodge No.
623, to $250.00; Normal Heights Lodge No. 632, to $250.00: Alta Loma
Lodge No. 643, to $250.00; Modesto Lodge No. 675, to $250.00.
Fixing fee: Oriental Lodge No. 144, at $250.00; Friendship Lodge
No. 210, to $250.00: Whittier Lodge No. 323, to $250.00; Hermosa
Lodge No. 557. at $400.00: Harding Lodge No. 584, at $500.00; Garden
Grove Lodge No. 586, at $400.00.
Rescinding fee: San Joaquin Lodge No. 19: Texas Lodge No. 46:
San Benito Lodge No. 211: Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219: Guadalupe Lodge No. 237; Elsinore Lodge No. 289; Porterville Lodge No. 303:
San Jacinto Lodge No. 338; San Fernando Lodge No. 343: Amity Lodge
No. 370: Jewel Lodge No. 374: Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463 Alta Vista
Lodge No. 464; San Gabriel Lodge No. 546; Hermosa Lodge No. 557.
I now move the adoption of this report. thereby approving the recommendations contained therein.
OAKLEY K. MORTON
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY
LESLIE V. HUGH ES
HANS WARNCKE
EDWARD L. KELLAS
MARSHALL ST. CLAIR WELLS
Adopted.

-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

213

Report of Committee on Returns
October 1, 1948
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns presents herewith an analysis of the
Consolidated Returns of the Lodges in this jurisdiction for the year
1947-1948.
Net membership 1947...................................................................... 173,917
Gains:
Members raised.......................................................... 11,699
Affiliated························································-······-·-·· 1,947
Restored :...................................................................
455
Gain by error....·-··················-····-·····················-········
12

Total ...................................................................... 14,113
Losses:
Members withdrawn.................................................. 1,445
Suspended N. P. D •............................ ·-·····················
545
Died ··-·····-·······--·······················································-·· 2,809
Expelled ·······························································--···
25
Loss by error..............................................................
8
Total ·············--····--·······-··············-············--············ 4,832
Net gain in membership................. -...........................................

9,281

Total net membership 1948........................................................ 183,198
Dues remitted...................................................................... 2,158
New Lodges.......................... --······-··-·······························
6
Total Lodges.....................................................J................
596
With the close of World War II we reached our greatest gain in
Masonry when we attained 12,165 members added to our rolls. We
expected that this number would level off some as the record shows.
Our deaths show a steady increase as the members grow older. There
has been an increase in the members suspended for Non Payment of
Dues. Our general increase in population has required new Lodges for
the best interest of membership.
Respectfully submitted,
Committee on Returns:
HENRY G. MATHEWSON
WILLIAM W. McKEE
FRED SCHLIGHTING
ALFRED P. DAVIES
HUGH J. KEVILLE
McLELLAN W. HuNsAcKER
Adopted.
WEBSTER W. WILCOX, JR.

214

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Report of the Committee on Masonic Information
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Masonic information reports as follows:
In its last annual report your Committee went to some length in reviewing the history of Masonic Education or Information in this Grand
Jurisdiction over the past thirty years, quoting conclusions reached
and reported in prior years, analyzing the problems presented, and
concluding with an outline of principles applicable and with a proposed
program to be followed. Your Committee has not, in the main, changed
its views, so that, for a fuller understanding of the course to be followed
and of the objectives to be attained, the 1947 report of your Committee
should be consulted.
With that report, your Committee tendered manuscripts for two
booklets, one called "Address to the Candidate" to be presented to the
applicant for degrees immediately after his election to receive them,
and the other called the "Book of the Entered Apprentice" to be delivered to the candidate upon his initiation. These books having been
authorized by Grand Lodge, 15,000 copies of each were printed and
distributed to the lodges, in quantities as nearly as could be estimated
equal to the number of candidates to be initiated during the year. Regretably and, perhaps, necessarily, there were underestimates in some
instances, or some Lodges accepted more candidates this year than
they did last year. Before the year was past, at the request of the Grand
Secretary, who had obligingly undertaken the distribution of the booklets, an additional 5000 copies of each were run off the press. This increment will probably not carry much beyond the present Communication of Grand Lodge.
Widespread, unsolicited and hearty commendation followed the issue of these pamphlets. Your Committee has received many letters of
approbation and the Grand Secretary received many more. While these
booklets were intended primarily for candidates, as stated in last year's
report, a number of Lodges have ordered supplies to be sold or given to
their existing membership. or these extra copies for such use, your Committee was forced, by the limitation on its appropriation, to exact a price
of ten cents each, the money to be remitted to the Grand Secretary for
credit of the Committee's fund, which had been almost wholly consumed by printing expense.
Feeling certain that the first two publications had filled a need, your
Committee has prepared and presents with this report, the manuscripts
for two additional pamphlets, one called the "Book of the Fellow Craft,"
and the other the "Book of the Master Mason." The former is much of
the same character as that for the Entered Apprentice, differing, of

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

215

course, to the extent the two degrees differ. This distinction is pointed
out in the booklet and the Fellow Craft Degree is presented in what is
believed to be its true character as the operative degree, or, at least, the
most operative of the Three Degrees. This Degree, by reason of its
position between the First and the Third, possessing neither the surprise
which attends the one nor the sense of completiori and accomplishment
which accompanies the other, has lost emphasis and suffered some loss
of influence. Your Committee has attempted to explain it in a way which
restores it to the proper rank and gives it a character all its own, which
neither of the others exemplify.
In preparing the Book of the Master Mason, your Committee was
confronted with a larger task, for the Master Mason, besides being the
recipient of a degree, is vested with certain privileges and charged with
certain duties which do not pertain to the Entered Apprentice or Fellow
Craft. The Master Mason is, so to speak, endowed with full Masonic
citizenship; he becomes a voter and a taxpayer; and, upon him depends
·the conduct, welfare, purity and prosperity of the Craft. Therefore, it
is necessary, if the newly raised Master Mason is to take his place and
perform his functions as a Mason, that he be informed of many particulars outside of and beyond those relating to degrees, ceremonies and
ritual. As they have appeared to your Committee, these subjects are:
A survey of the broad question of what Freemasonry is and what its
teachings and purposes are; a succinct statement of the privileges and
duties of the Master Mason; advice on the important matter of applicants for degrees and how the portals of the Fraternity are to be guarded; the paramount importance of peace and harmony; and explanation
of the positions and prerogatives of the Master of the Lodge; the Inspector, and the Grand Master; an outline of the organization, composition, and functions of the Grand Lodge; a brief treatise on the customs
and laws of Freemasonry; a word about the Masonic Homes and other
examples of Masonic relief: and, finally, through all of these, to bring out
the different phases of Freemasonry and the several fields of activity
or endeavor open to the Master Mason.
Although this booklet contains about 18,000 words and may, at first
glance, appear to some as too extended, it is not perceived how less
would suffice if instruction of value is to be communicated. Moreover,
it is not intended to be the fate of this booklet to be read once and laid
aside, but rather that it will serve as one to which future reference may
be made until the holder has undertaken further study or has received
additional instruction by his lodge. For purposes of comparison attention is directed to the Manual published by Grand Lodge in 1938, which
ran to some 68,000 words or almost four times the volume of the proposed booklet. Although the Manual of 1938 was subsequently abandoned, it is instructive to observe, that ten years later copies of it have

216

217

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

been found in the ·possession of brethren who use it for information
which they desire and which that publication undoubtedly contained,
notwithstanding its faults. It is belie.v ed that the proposed Book of the
Master Mason contains all of the useful parts of the former Manual.

otherwise would stray? Does it create veneration for the Society and
make Masonry appear something different from the ordinary fraternal
order? Will it in time, make of us a better Fraternity?
Your Committee recommends:
1. That the two manuscripts accompanying this report be referred
to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes for approval: that,
with such amendments as that Committee may recommend, such manuscripts be approved by Grand Lodge; and that the Grand Secretary be
authorized to print and distribute the same to the Lodges:
2. That your Committee be continued for the ensuing year;
3. That there be appropriated, for the printing of said pamphlets,
the sum of $5,000 and, for the general expense of the Committee the
sum of $500.
Respectfully submitted,

Your Committee points out that it has deliberately refrained from
any attempt to interpret, explain, or enlarge upon the symbolism or
allegory of any degree, believing that, while that may be a proper and
instructive occupation for individual Ma5ons, the place for the official
comment, if any, by Grand Lodge is in the ritual, and that, when, if
ever, elucidation is deemed necessary, it will be accomplished by agencies
other than this Committee.
Your Committee reiterates what was said last year, that a program
of Masonic Information is not to be quickly or easily accomplished.
It is, in itself, a small revolution, and, in such experiments, it is best to
proceed slowly. consolidating each position before moving on to the next.
The value and effect of the work is best judged by the actual effect
wrought in the Lodges and by what the Masters and other officers observe and feel about its usefulness. Thus far, your Committee is reasonably satisfied that it is on the right course.
With the complete publication of the four booklets herein mentioned, your Committee will not consider that its resources are exhausted,
but will then consider the matter of committees in the Lodges to carry
on the educational work. It is hoped that, by these pamphlets, your
Committee will secure the confidence of the Masters and other officers of
the Lodges in the program and, thereby, command their earnest and
whole hearted support. Already, there is evidence of added interest
shown by candidates, some of whom inquire when the other ·booklets
are to be delivered to them.
We cannot be too oft reminded that, while the Grand Lodge is the
center of Masonic authority in this jurisdiction, it is not the center of
Masonic activities; that center is in the Lodge. Unless the Lodge selects
the proper candidates and inculcates in them a full understanding and
appreciation of the principles, policies, and purposes of Masonry, then,
all of the hopes and aspirations, all of the orations and addresses, and
all of the plans and projects of Grand Lodge will be futile. A stream
can rise no higher than its source, and the source of all Masonic material is the Lodge. The Masters, Wardens, and Secretaries of the Lodges
are on the firing line, so to speak: it is they who know the candidates,
their characters, abilities, and personalities; and it is they who can appraise the effect that Freemasonry is having upon those candidates, what
interest they show, and what part they will probably play in the Craft.
We want those opinions. Is this program doing any good? Does it
awaken more interest in the candidate? Is it arousing his curiosity? Is it
calculated to induce further study? Will it probably hold some who

DELBERT BERRY
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN
RUDOLPH JENNY
ALVIN
WENDT

w.

.

ROBERT F. SHIPPEE
HENRY W. COIL, Chairman

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to
Committee on Finance.
Report of Committee on Pay of Members
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 99th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge:
Those entitled to compensation are: the duly accredited Representatives of each Lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand Masters, Officers of Grand
Lodge, and the Chairmen and Members of Committees enumerated in
Section 68 of the Ordinances, who are actually in attendance at Grand
Lodge.
Compensation of members has been computed on the basis of twice
the one-way first class railway fare, plus Pullman sleeper, where necessary. As has been the custom for many years, no compensation is
allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity, or
where the prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00.
We have computed the transportation rates from all points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the payroll with
the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on Credentials. The amount required to meet the transportation costs for the
1948 Convocation is as follows:

218

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge Officers and Past Grand Masters..........$ 1.287.68
Committees ......................................................................
723.60
Inspectors ........................................................................ 3,069.64
Representatives .............................................................. 17,719.12

they have been carefully studied by the Charters Committee. With few
minor exceptions they were found in order and these Lodges are to be
congratulated for their painstaking efforts as evidenced by their records.

Total ···-······:..:..-···-·········-······································$22,830.04
We call your attention to an increase over and above last year of
approximately $5,000.00. This is made necessary for the following
reasons:

Meudell Lodge was granted a dispensation January 20th, 1918 and
was Instituted by the Grand Master April 3rd, 1918.
Since their Institution they have conferred sixteen ( 16) degrees in
their own Lodge and fo~r ( 1) degrees for Bakersfield Lodge.
Meudell Lodge has received the finest cooperation possible from the
other Masonic Lodges in Bakersfield.
There are twenty-three ( 23) names on the Charter list representing
eighteen ( 18) California Lodges and none is from other jurisdictions
and only seven ( 7) of these names are from Bakersfield Lodges. It is
known that the population of Bakersfield has doubled since 1910 and
is such that it is very stable, having had comparatively no war activities.
Meudell Lodge meets in the Masonic Temple where they pay a
nominal rental and are in a sound financial condition, showing cash
balance of $989.17.
It is the opinion of the Committee that Meudell Lodge will prosper
and be a credit to Grand Lodge. We, therefore, recommend a Charter
be granted to Meudell Lodge No. 695 at Bakers.field in the County of
Kern.

219

MEUDELL LODGE

1. Increased rates for all types of transportation.
2. Adjustment of inequalities not corrected for the past several years.
3. Increased attendance.
Thanks are again due to Past Master Louis Sutter, and the AngloCalifornia National Bank, for making the necessary arrangements so
that members may cash their checks in this building at the close of the
Grand Lodge session. Checks will be ready for distribution following
the election of the Junior Grand Warden, Friday morning. Checks not
called for will be mailed by the Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN W. DAVEY
Lorn C. CAMPBELL
WILLIAM F. HASKELL
Loms G. SurroN
KEITH ScHLAEGEL
HERBERT H. COOPER
. GEORGE p. SILLIMAN

CROSSROADS LODGE

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

Report of Committee on Charters
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
During the past twelve months your Grand Master has seen fit to
grant dispensations to form new Lodges as follows:
Meudell Lodge at Bakersfield
Crossroads Lodge at San Diego
Saint Elmo Lodge at Oakland
William D. Stephens Lodge at Los Angeles
Bixby Knolls Lodge at Long Beach
Ponderosa Lodge at Fresno
These Lodges have submitted their records as required by law and

,..

Crossroads Lodge was granted a dispensation on January 31st, 1918
and instituted by the Grand Master May 29th, 1918.
This Lodge is an outgrowth of the North Island Masonic Club
formed in June, 1915, which Club had held regular monthly meetings.
In addition they formed several degree teams which conferred degrees
at the invitation of the Lodges in San Diego County.
Among the twenty-five Charter members, fourteen are members of
the San Diego district Lodges and nine ( 9) members of foreign juris·
dictions.
The San Diego Lodges have given wholehearted support to the new
Lodge, evidencing the need therefor and t~eir satisfaction with its composition. Further evidence of this fine spirit is noted by donations
received from Masonic Bodies in the area, totaling nearly five hundred
dollars ( $500.00).
Their financial condition is excellent, the record showing a cash
·
balance in excess of $3,000.00.
The Committee, therefore, recommends that a Charter be granted
to Crossroads Lodge No. 696 at San Diego in the County of San Diego.

220

221

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SAINT ELMO LODGE

Your Committee is impressed by the ardor and enthusiasm of the
entire group, and with the progress they have made and we feel that
the brief life of the Lodge holds bright promise for the future. However,
your Committee is of the opinion that a Lodge under dispensation
should work a reasonable period of time to prove to Grand Lodge that
the granting of a Charter is entirely appropriate. We feel that this group
has not been functioning a sufficient length of time to meet this qualification.
We suggest that the brethren of Bixby Knolls Lodge possess themselves of that cardinal virtue "patience" and your Committee recommends that Bixby Knolls Lodge be continued under dispensation.

Saint Elmo Lodge in Oakland was granted a dispensation March
29th, 1948, and Instituted by the Grand Master May 18th, 1948.
This Lodge was formed principally by Brethren in Maritime occupations.
Although they have received fifteen ( 15) petitions since their Institution, they have adhered to their original plan of conferring only one
degree a week and it is the observation of this Committee that they are
making Masons who will be a credit to the Fraternity.
The Lodge is out of debt and has a cash balance of approximately
$1,000.00. Most of their equipment has either been donated or made
by their own members.
The Committee feels that while this Lodge may never be one of
the larger Lodges, it will be a credit to Grand Lodge and we, therefore, recommend that a Charter be granted to Saint Elmo Lodge No. 697
at Oakland in the County of Alameda.
WILLIAM D. STEPHENS LODGE

William D. Stephens Lodge in Los Angeles was granted a dispensation June 7th, 1948 and Instituted by the Grand Master June 19th, 1948.
While this Lodge has been operating only since June 19th, 1948 an
Inspector was assigned to them, at their request in August 1947, and
since that time they have regularly met as an organized group and
perfected their proficiency in the work.
Since their Institution, they have conferred seven ( 7) degrees and
your Committee is ·pleased to note that their first consideration is to
make Masons rather than members and to that end they have inaugurated a plan for welcoming their candidates which merits the attention
of other Lodges. When a candidate is to receive a degree, he is met at
his home or place of busines by a member-taken to dinner and then to
the Lodge room and introduced to the brethren, thus he is made to feel
that he is a part of the organization. While this plan probably could
not be carried out in all Lodges, William D. Stephens Lodge is to be
complimented for their enterprise in this respect.
This Lodge is renting an adequate meeting place in the Masonic
Temple at Pico and Figueroa Streets in Los Angeles and is in a sound
financial position. There is ample room in Los Angeles for this Lodge
as the seventy-four ( 74) existent Lodges have an average membership
of 429.
We, therefore, recommend that a Charter be granted to William
D. Stephens Lodge No. 698 at Los Angeles in the County of Los
Angeles.
BIXBY KNOLLS LODGE

Bixby Knolls Lodge in Long Beach, was granted a dispensation on
July 21st, 1948, and was Instituted July 31st, 1948.

I

•

PONDEROSA LODGE

Ponderosa Lodge in Fresno was granted a dispensation August 1st,
1948 and Instituted August 5th, 1948, by the Grand Master.
This Lodge has had an auspicious start and your committee commends the Masons in the Fresno area for their efforts in the formation
of this new Lodge.
However, due to the short time these brethren have been working
together the Committee feels that it would be to their interests and that
of Grand Lodge for them to work a time with patience under dispensation.
We are confident the enthusiasm of these brethren will not suffer
and that at the next communication of Grand Lodge they will have
demonstrated by their works that they should have a Charter.
We, therefore, recommend that Ponderosa Lodge be continued under
dispensation.
Charters Committee

c.

GLENN
HOLMES
WILLIAM R. HERVEY, JR.
WM. J. WILLIAMS
HAR.OLD MEYER
JAMES M. MACDONALD

Each portion of the report was separately acted upon and adopted
and the entire report was then adopted.

222

223

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Committee on Freedom Train
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Freedom Train was appointed by the Grand
Master pursuant to a resolution of Grand Lodge. This resoultion was
presented to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes by
Brother Arthur Joel. Inspector of the 48-A Masonic District. Brother
Joel is now deceased, but his alertness and thoughtfulness lives in the
activity which resulted from bringing the matter to the attention of
Grand Lodge.
The Committee's mission was to assist in carrying out the nationwide Freedom Train project. The broad objective was to awaken our
citizens to a keener appreciation of the rights and responsibilities
inherent in American citizenship. Your Committee felt that our California lodges on behalf of the Masonic fraternity could serve this great
cause by recalling to the minds of our brethren, and in turn to our
citizens, how dearly the political rights they now enjoy were won, how
carefully they must be guarded, and how completely lost they would
be in a totalitarian world. It was further felt that especially at this
time should our fraternity, always preeminent in the cause of freedom,
assist in stopping alien ideologies and try to make misguided converts
see that their ultimate end must be inevitable chaos and conquest.
An example in point appeared in a recent Congressional hearing
on Communistic espionage activities in the United States. A star witness was a former member of the Communist party and, according to
her own statement, she had been a war-time spy for a Communist ring.
In her testimony she candidly confessed that she was attracted to
Communism because "I grew up to womanhood without becoming
acquainted with the American government * * * this fault, I think,
runs all through our educational system." If this is true, then it was
not because the witness was not "educated." She went through grammar school. high school. a fine woman's college in the East. She also
took a master's degree at Columbia University. Apparently, however,
at no point in her education did she become acquainted with the American government. She never understood the basic assumption of our
government otherwise she would not have become a Communist.
In keeping with the broad objectives of the Freedom Train project
and the desires of the Grand Master, your Committee kept in close
touch with representatives of the American Heritage Foundation. This
is a privately financed, nonprofit organization, representative of all the
major groups in our American system, including industry, labor and
the professions. It has for its purposes the program of the Freedom
Train. The Committee received and passed on to our 590 lodges the
schedule of stops of the train in California, recommended to the lodges
that local sub-committees in the lodges be appointed to inform their

members and others in order that all persons possible might take advantage of the great opportunity to visit the train, and to make contacts
with various local groups similar to our activities during Public Schools
Week so that school organizations, officials and publicizing agents in
the respective communities would participate in the project and to conduct programs in our lodges, including talks on the precious documents
in the train. Later, your Committee divided the State into sections of
inspectorial districts and assigned a section to each of the members of
your Committee for supervision. Follow-up letters were sent to the
masters of all the California lodges giving pertinent data and recommendations. In order to get maximum results other recognized organizations were included in the general program.
Since it appeared quickly that the train could not accommodate all
who desired to make the visit, your Committe arranged with those in
authority to take a 16 mm. movie film of the exhibits for later distribution throughout the State. M. W. William B. Ogden presented to the
Grand Master the idea for these films. Thereupon, your Committee,
with the assistance of R. W. Ellsworth Meyer, got in touch with
Brother Ernest W. Miller of North Hollywood, who was appointed
to take the movies. Great credit is due Brother Miller and his assistants
for their volunteer work in recording on sound track 16 mm. movies
the priceless documents and the pictures of the Freedom Train at stops
throughout California. They did yeoman work and in a truly professional manner they overcame problems of getting access to the exhibits
when the crowds were not in attendance and in the problems of lighting. An example of their professional touch is that those in charge of
the Freedom Train project now greatly desire a copy of the film. It.
perhaps will be of great value, since it is the only one in existence.
Another reason for taking the pictures was because your Committee
felt that while the train itself was a dramatic incident, it was merely a
spark to rekindle throughout our nation the fire of real old fashioned
Americanism. This initial emotion to be of maximum value should be
followed through and continued. Hence, your Committee recommended
that activities extend beyond the mere arrival and departure of the
train and that the films be made available to the California lodges for
the purpose of conducting continuing programs, talks and discussions.
We are happy to say that while unavoidable delays have occurred, the
films are now in the process of completion. You brethren, especially
those who were unable to visit the train, will be glad to know you soon
can sit and see pictures of the train and its exhibits. Programs can be
built around the event to show the meaning and relation of the documents to the historic fundamentals of our form of government. Thus,
we can dedicate ourselves anew to our priceless heritage and to the
importance of the continual care and devotion necessary to preserve
our freedom.

22i

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Those of you who saw the train may remember there was also
evidence of the necessity of this continual alertness, for some alien
organizations distributed subversive literature and tried to impede the
program at the stops in California.
Your Committee is most happy to teJJ you that the response of the
California lodges to the entire Freedom Train project was, if anything,
over-enthusiastic. Some 155 of our California lodges made written
reports to your Committee of programs they conducted. These are
available for your examination. You will be interested to know that
Union Lodge No. 58 of Sacramento commemorated the visit of the
Freedom Train to that city on March 20 by the preparation of this
elaborate permanent bound volume. It comprises an inspired historical
article, the publicity attendant upon the event, and resolutions by
members of the lodge. Thus, each member pledged themselves to
renewed awareness of their American citizenship. The volume was
presented to the Grand Master and will be a permanent reminder here
in Grand Lodge of the event.
Under the continued leadership of our lodges throughout California,
therefore. your efforts and influence were exerted toward the objectives
of the Grand Lodge resolution of last year.
So, on the 1948 anniversary of George Washington's birthday. the
Masons of California were on hand when the Freedom Train, brightly
painted red, white and blue. roJJed across the Southern border of the
State and into the City of San Diego, and continued throughout the
length of our great State.

Jin and Silas Dean, an early draft of the Constitution of the United
States with handwritten annotations by George Washington. You also
saw the original official manuscripts of our Bill of Rights and of
Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation.

If you were so fortunate as to get inside the train, you saw treasured
sheets of parchment and paper. many of them yeJJowed with age. which
told graphically the story of the birth and development from 13 littleknown struggling colonies of the mighty nation now known the world
over as the United States of America. You saw a letter printed in Rome
in the year 1493 in which Christopher Columbus described to a friend
his discovery of the new world, a copy of the Mayflower Compact
published in 1622, under which the Pilgrims of Plymouth Colony governed themselves for a number of years-perhaps the first seed of
democratic government in our country, a copy of the Treaty of Paris,
signed by Great Britain in 1783, recognizing the independence of the
original 13 colonies. as well as printed public documents, handwritten
manuscripts, or authentic informal letters, recording every event of
historic importance through the 165 years since the winning of American independence. You saw also documents preceding the history of
the American nation, such as the 13th century copy of the Magna
Charta, signed by King John of England at Runnymede in 1215, the
protest of the American colonists against the British Stamp Act in 1765,
a copy of the Declaration of Independence attested by Benjamin Frank.-

225

The sight of these links in the chain of freedom .perhaps made us
more keenly aware of why we have such a passion for freedom. Also,
we understood better that we are the heirs and the guaraians of these
liberties, and that we,, should pledge ourselves anew, "they shall not
perish from the earth.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK BARBONI
ROBERT E. ESTERBROOK
ALDEN I. FULKERSON
EARL H. JOHNSON
J. MORGAN JONES
CARL
SHOMO
HENRY C. CLAUSEN

w.

Adopted.
The Grand Secretary caJJed attention to the outstanding observance
conducted by Union Lodge No. 58 and the complete report made by the
Lodge.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Memorial Service
1. Song, "Remember The Word" (Psalm 119)
.
• Anderson
Carl Hooper, Tenor; Alta Vista Lodge No. 464

l
.....

(First Performance)
Invocation
Grand Chaplain
Report of Committee on Necrology
Roy C. Bryan, Chairman
Song, "The Prayer Perfect"
Riley-Stenson
Eulogy for Assistant Grand Lecturer,
Sidney K. Lehman
by P.G.M. Leslie E. Wood
6. Benediction
Grand Chaplain
Gustance
7. Memorial Song, "Taps"
2.
3.
4.
5.

The poet has said that the leaves fall fast in Vallombrosa, but they
are nothing compared to the human leaves that fall daily from the tree
of life. Life is so uncertain that every poet, every philosopher, every
~ol~ book of every g~eat religion has dealt with the mystery, attempting in some way to give comfort and consolation to those who remain.

In the past year 231 Masters and Past Masters, members of this

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodge, have been called to that "spiritual building, that house
not made with hands. eternal in the heavens."
The losses have been in 176 lodges, 133 have lost one, 33 have lost
two, 9 have lost three, but the hand of the grim reaper has been laid
most heavily upon Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38, which has lost five: Percy
Arthur Izant, Henry Rheim, Emmett Claude Rittenhouse, Herbert
· Charles Still. and Arthur Claire Parsons. Our sympathy goes to our
brethren of this lodge in their great loss.
Each of these 231 deceased brethren have earned and merited the
commendation of this Grand Body, but the limitations of time make it
necessary for us to confine our approbation to the accomplishments of
a few.
PROSPER ALBERT SAINGES

On May 12, 1947 death claimed Prosper Albert Sainges, Inspector
of La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17 of the City of San Francisco. This
Lodge conducts its meetings in the Frenc~ langu~ge and compris~s t~e
1l3th Masonic District. Brother Sainges Masoruc career began m his
22nd year. fhen as a young salesman he applie~ to and was ~c~~pted
by King Soloman's Lodge No. 260 of San Francisco. He was mitlated
April 13, 1908, passed June 8, and raisea August 17. the same year.
He dimitted from this lodge in 1935. He applied for affiliation to La
Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17. The petition was received July 6, 1935,
and his election to membership occurred August 2, 1935.
A thorough knowledge of French and -his enthusiastic interest in
Masonry deeply impressed his brethren, and in 1936 he was appointed
Junior Deacon, which office he heia for three years. He was elected
Junior Warden in 1939; Senior Warden in 1940, and served the Lodge
as Master in 1941-42.
Appreciating his qualifications as a leader in Masonic work Grand
Master Gilbert C. DeForest appointed him Inspector April 1O. 1945.
The presentation of the Certificate was made in the presence of the
Grand Secretary and eight Inspectors May 4, 1945, in one of the most
pleasant and enthusiastic meetings ever held in this lodge. He was also
a member of Golden Gate Commandery, and for ten years was a member of the Patrol of Islam Temple of the Shrine.
Brother Sainges was born in 1885 in the village of Villesgure,
France. As a boy he was fascinated by what he read of the wonderful
City of the Golden Gate in the great State of Califo~nia, in far awa!
America. He was determined that some day that city would be his
home. His hopes were realized earlier than he expected and traveling
alone he arrived in San Francisco in 1900.
The beauty and fascination of the city far exceeded his fondest
dreams, and he immediately dedicated his efforts to her interests. He

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

227

applied for papers of naturalization upon reaching the proper age, and
on becoming an American citizen he was so thrilled by the experience
that he told his friends that he was the only Native Son of California
born in France.
In 1909 Prosper Sainges married Miss Alice Carroul, and of this
union one daughter was born._ He is survived by his wife and the
daughter, now Mrs. Dorothy Sainges Auerbach of Los Angeles.
In the passing of this good man San Francisco has lost one of its
most devoted sons, and Masonry has lost one of her most ardent
supporters.
HENRY CLAY MC MASTER

Henry Clay McMaster, Inspector of the 101 st Masonic District,
was called from labor Easter Sunday, March 28, 1948, at his home in
Fullerton, California.
Brother McMaster was ·born in Cleveland, Ohio, June 17, 1888. He
received his education in that ctiy. Coming to California in his 25th
year he settled in Fullerton, and passed the remainder of his life in that
beautiful community. Entering the service of the Union Oil Company
he was a salesman in the salvage department for 38 years. He is survived by his widow, Mabel McMaster, one daughter, Mrs. Phillip
Pippiatt of Brea, California, four brothers and four sisters, one granddaughter, Ellen Louise Pippiatt.
On February 18, 1920 he-was initiated in Fullerton Lodge No. 339,
passed March 18, and raised to the Sublime Degree April 9. Elected
Master of his Lodge he served in that capacity for the year 1924. In
1936 Brother McMaster was appointed Inspector of the lOlst District,
comprising the lodges in the northern half of Orange County, and
served faithfully in that exalted position until his death.
Other branches of Masonry appealed to his sense of the beautiful
and he devoted much of his time to the York Rite, being Past High
Priest of Fullerton Chapter No. 90 Royal Arch Masons; Captain of
the Guard of Santa Ana Council No. 14 Royal and Select Masters;
Commander of Fullerton Commandery No. 55, Knights Templar.
The esteem in which he was held was most fittingly expressed by
the brethren of his lodge: "In the passing of Worshipful Henry C.
McMaster Masonry in Orange County has lost its most distinguished
and loyal member. Known throughout the county for his devotion to
the ideals of Masonry, for his extreme tolerance and kindness to his
fellow man, for his readiness to aid and assist a distressed brother or
his dependents, and to instruct with rare indulgence the ritualistic and
secret work of our Order, his passing creates a void which no time can
fill."
The example set by Henry McMaster is a pattern of love and devotion for the Fraternity. We ask God's blessing upon him.

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

...

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

JAMES BERTRAM MC LEES

Death from a heart ailment from which he suffered for more than
50 years ended the long and useful career of J. B. Mclees at his home
in San Diego. December 16, 1947. "Bert," as he was most affectionately
known. was born in Edenburgh, Scotland, June 9, 1877, and brought
to the United States by his parents at the age of 1. His family settled
in Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, where he received his early education.
He was graduated from Franklin and Marshall College with the
degree of master of arts, and went to San Francisco in 1901. He moved
from San Francisco in 1904 and established himself in San Diego, becoming associated with the San Diego Railway, leaving that company
to enter the County Clerk's office as a deputy in 1906. He served as
deputy for 11 years before he was appointed to head the department
in 1917. He was elected each succeeding 4 years and served San Diego
County in this responsible position until his death.
Loyal and devoted service to his adopted country was one of Bert's
most outstanding qualities. He enlisted from Lock Haven, Pennsylvania, in the Spanish-American War. serving as Sergeant and Company
Clerk of the 12th Pennsylvania Volunteers, but was invalided out of
the service when the doctors discovered he suffered from a heart ailment. His attempts to enlist in World War I were unsuccessful for
the same reason.
On November 5, 1907 Bert married Maude Loretta Clark, a native
of Kentucky, in San Diego. They have five children, all of whom survive. His other survivors are his wife and a brother, Howard Mclees
of Corry, Pennsylvania.
The Masonic career of our beloved brother began in San Diego
Lodge No. 35 when he was initiated, passed and raised, all within the
month of November 1917. He held various offices in the Lodge and in
1923 held the highest office, that of Master. Following the installation
of his successor Bert was appointed Inspector of District No. 109. His
work was so outstanding that each succeeding Grand Master reappointed him, and he was most active until the last. The night of his death he
attended Normal Heights Lodge No. 632, where he installed his son,
Winfield Scott McLees, as Senior Warden.
- Branches of Masonry other than the Blue Lodge excited his interest
and he became a diligent worker in both the York and Scottish Rites.
He was Past High Priest of San Diego Chapter No. 61 Royal Arch
Masons. and Past Grand High Priest, Royal Arch Masons of California, and was coroneted a 33rd degree Mason December 18, 1943 by the
Supreme Council Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of the Southern
Jurisdiction of the United States, Past Potentate Al Bahr T~mple, Order of the Mystic Shrine, and a charter member and organizer of the
Royal Order of Jesters, and recorder of San Diego Conclave No. 62,
Red Cross of Constantine.

229

Other civic and fraternal organizations received his support. He was
a member of the Fraternal Order of Eagles, Aerie No. 244: Benevolent
and Protective Order of Elks No. 168, Knights of Pythias. In civic
activities he was a member of the San Diego Club, Chamber of Commerce. and the San Diego Advertising Club.
The attendance at his funeral was one of the largest of any similar
gathering in the history of San Diego County. The Masonic service
was conducted by Past Grand Master Claude Morrison, and was followed by cremation.
_
In the passing of Bert McLees California Masonry has lost one of its
greatest and most beloved members, and the city of San Diego has lost
a citizen who was a vigorous foe to monopoly, an immense force for good
government, and a clear thinking defender of liberty under law.
SIDNEY KRAMER LEHMAN

\

Friendships are acquired in many different ways-business, college,
aocial contacts, and in military service, but none are more lasting nor
more binding than those made in the unselfish service of love and devotion to the interests of Free Masonry where men of like thoughts,
like interests and similar goals, combine their efforts and without thought
of personal gain or self-aggrandisement work for the accomplishment
of an ideal world. It was Sidney Lehman's unswerving belief in these
tenets of Masonry and his efforts in their behalf that endeared him to
men in every part of this Grand Jurisdiction. Sidney Lehman's record is
a pattern for those who would contribute more to making this a better
world for good men, gentle women and little children to live in. There
is no event in his life story that shows where any person was injured or
caused to shed a tear because of any act of his.
As a Master of his Lodge, as an Inspector, and as Assistant Grand
Lecturer he gave of his time and of his substance that the pathway of
others in this uncertain and troubled world might be made smoother.
One of the happiest events of Sidney's life occurred on the evening
of June 2, 1947, in Los Angeles Lodge No. 42. At that meeting Sidney
raised his son, Sidney Jr. to the sublime degree of Master Mason. Each
station was occupied by an Inspector of the Los Angeles area. Following
the degree he addressed the gathering, and the understandable emotion
of his fatherly feelings was communicated to all present, and there
were few dry eyes among the brethren.
He answered the final call April 12, 1948 at his home in Beverly
Hills. His death came suddenly and unexpectedly. He is mourned by
untold numbers of friends both in and out of Masonry. A more fitting
tribute will be paid to his memory later this morning by the Most
Worshipful Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master, who will deliver a
special eulogy to this splendid character.

230

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

FRANKLIN DAY CALDWELL

became most active, serving as Venerable Master of the Lodge of Perfection, Wise Master Chapter Rose Croix, Commander Council of
Kadosh, and Master of Kadosh of the Consistory. In 1919 he was
coroneted a 33rd degree Inspector General Honorary by the Supreme
Council of the Scottish Rite of the Southern Jurisdiction of the United
States. He was also a member of Islam Temple of the Mystic Shrine,
and for many years secretary of the Board of Directors of the Shriner's
Hospital for crippled children in San Francisco.

After a lingering illness death relieved the suffering of Franklin
Day Caldwell on August 22, 1947, in Artesia, California.
Franklin Caldwell, son of Boyd E. and Elizabeth Caldwell, was
born September 20, 1881, at Mount Pleasant, Iowa. In 1889 the family
moved to Central City, Nebraska, where he received his education,
specializing in agriculture. Believing that his talents could be put to more
productive use in the fertile valleys of Southern California he moved
in 1913 to the southeastern section of Los Angeles County. For many
years he operated farms in that area. When his health began to fail he
transferred his activities to lighter work, and became associated with
the Los Angeles County Board of Education. He served as Custodian
of the Union High Schools at both Norwalk and Artesia, until illness
forced his retirement in 1945.
His Masonic light began in Lone Tree Lodge No. 36, Central City,
Nebraska. On July 17, 1913 he was received by dimit into Artesia Lodge
No. 377 at Artesia, California, and was elected and served that lodge
as Master in 1919. Following his retirement as Master he was appointed
Inspector of District No. 95, at a time when Lodges in that area were
few and far apart. The District covered most of that section of Los
Angeles County and also included the town of Whittier.
Franklin Caldwell was a loyal and faithful worker, greatly loved
and admired. His death leaves a vacancy in the hearts of his brethren.
ARTHUR M. JoEL

The Great Architect of the Universe has in his infinite wisdom seen
fit to call from our midst another of our beloved brethren, Arthur M.
Joel. Arthur was born in the City of San Francisco July 25, 1882, educated in the public schools of that city, attending Hastings Law School
for two years, and finished his legal education at Stanford University.
At the outbreak of hostilities in 1898 he enlisted in the United States
Navy that he might do his share in defending his country in the war
against Spain. He served as an officer aboard the U.S. Transport Sumner. seeing action in the Far East. At the close of the war he returned
to his native city and spent the balance of his life in civilian activities.
His Masonic career began in Doric Lodge No. 216 in San Francisco,
but in 1918 he dimitted to become a charter member and first Master of
Lincoln Lodge No. 470. He was appointed Inspector of District No.
48-A in 1919 and served in that responsible position untin 931. In 1935
he was reappointed and served faithfully until his death.
He was captivated by the great moral teachings of the Scottish Rite
of Freemasonry, and immediately after his initiation in those Bodies he

231

In the passing of Arthur M. Joel we have lost a brilliant scholar, a
devoted friend, a true Mason. The Fraternity mourns his loss. We
commend his soul to Almighty God, and comfort ourselves in the knowledge that he is happier in his Father's house.
EZRA

w. DECOTO

Ezra William Decato, former Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge of
California, died August 6, 1948. He was 72 years of age.
Son of Ezra and Janet Lowrie Decato, he was ·b orn at Decato,
Alameda County, California, February 6, 1876. His education was obtained in the vicinity in which he was born. After graduating from the
Decato Grammar School and the Centerville HitJh School, he attended
the University of California graduating in 1900 with a Ph. B. degree.
Then followed two years in Hastings Law School from which he graduated with a B. L. degree. He was admitted to the Bar in 1902.
He began the practice of law in association with J. B. Richardson in
the City of Oakland. From 1906 to 1918 he served as Prosecuting Attorney, City of Oakland, was District Attorney for Alameda County
from 1918 to 1925. In 1925 he became a member of the California Railroad Commission, served as its President in 1929, an'd re-entered priVate
practice in 1930. Governor Earl Warren appointed him Judge of the
Superior Court in 1943 where he served in the Juvenile and Civil courts
until his passing. As a member of the Alameda County Bar and the
State Bar Association he was one of their most highly regarded aiid
respected members.
Brother Decato served Masonry well. He was Master of Live Oak
Lodge No. 61, F.&A.M. of Oakland in 1915; a 33rd degree Honorary
of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, receiving the honor December 2, 1947; Potentate of AAmes Temple of the Shrine in 1928. He was
also very active in the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, and
was Exalted Ruler of the Oakland Lodge in 1915.
Brother Decato is survived by his widow, Gladys Girard Decato, two
daughters, Mrs. James Nordahl, and Mrs. Webster Jessup, also four
grandchildren.

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

His passing is deeply regretted. His work in Masonry is his monument. He will be remembered long and favorably by this Grand Lodge.
' Man's belief in the immortality of the soul. his constant struggle
for the light above, and his continual effort to withstand the trials. tribulations and vexations of life, are all influenced to a large extent by his
religious experience.
From the dawn of history the religions of the world have been roughly divided into two groups-those founded by persons of strong spiritual
convictions, and the so-called leaderless religions. The leaderless religions comprise the' Egyptian, Babylonian and Assyrian, Hindu, Greek,
Roman, Shinto, and others, and most remain far behind the path of
progress. These leaderless religions were the least ethical and most
immoral. holding firmly to animism or nature worship. A few reached
the next stage, polytheism. Their prayers were principally incantation
and divination. When things went wrong incantation was used to set
them right. When it was feared that evil was approaching divination
was used to keep it away. Their principal desire was safety and security
in this world.
Most of us are follow~rs of the two great ethical religions, Christianity and Judaism, which were founded by the greatest religious teachers
the world has ever known, Jesus of Nazareth, and Moses of the Hebrews. Their tea<'.hings were predicated upon the fatherhood of God and
the brotherhood of man.
These ethical religions do not lay great stress upon security in this
life, but emphasize mans responsibility to his God and his obligations
to his fellow creatures; that man by his own acts is responsible for most
of the suffering and unhappiness of humanity; that man's spiritual
strength is within himself, and the individual conquering of anger,
hatred, intolerance, envy. greed and covetousness, should be his highest
goal. In the Book of Proverbs we read: "He that is slow to anger is
better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than 'he that taketh a
city." By this mastery of self and he love of God he need have no fear
of the world to come.
Our departed brethren have dedicated their lives and actions to the
beliefs of the great ethical religions, and in so doing have left the world
better because of their having passed this way. Their influence rests
upon us and their examples guide our ways. We will see them here no
more but it will not be long, "and the wisest know not how soon" when
we shall greet them in our Father's house for they are not far away.
As the poet Robert Freeman has said: "They are in the other room":

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"No, not cold ·b eneath the grasses,
Not close-walled within the tomb:
Rather, in my father's mansion,
Living in another room.
"Living, like the one who loves me,
Like yon child with cheeks abloom,
Out of sight, at desk or school-book,
Busy in another room.
"Nearer than the youth whom fortune
Beckons where the strange lands loom;
Just behind the hanging curtain,
Serving in another room.
"Shall I doubt my Father's mercy?
Shall I think of death as doom,
Or the stepping o'er the threshold
To a bigger, brighter room?
"Shall I blame my Father's wisdom?
Shall I sit enswathed in gloom,
When I know my love is happy,
Waiting in the other room?"
RoY C. BRYAN
Ross K. RoPER
GEORGE JEAN
GEORGE L. EDMONDSON
ELMER BLASE
WILLIAM A. WILLIAMS
ROBERT L. NORMAN

233

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN MEMORIAM

service to Masonry was one of love an without hope of reward, other
than the knowledge that he was making a contribution to the fraternity
he loved. He was the oldest member of the Ritual Committee, in point
of service at the time of his death, having served for 14 years. In this
field, as in all others, he performed the tasks assigned to him with a
smile and a determination that was never satisfied with anything short
of actual accomplishment. The success of the present system of teaching
the ritual is due in a great measure to his ability and untiring efforts:

SIDNEY KRAMER LEHMAN
by .Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master
It is fitting that, amidst the rejoicing and recounting the blessings of
the year just closing that we pause in our labors to testify our regard and
sincere affection for a brother who has laid aside the working tools of
the. craft, and to pay a tribute to his fine character as a man and as a
Mason.
Were it not for our belief in the immortality of the soul. and the
knowledge that death is not the end of life, there would be nothing to
allay our fears of death or to assuage our sorrow, but we realize that
death is but the drawing of a curtain, the extinguishing of a light and the
preparation for a fuller and better existence, where there shall be no
more death, neither shall there be sorrow or pain, but only peace and
life everlasting.
Sidney Kramer Lehman was a native Californian, having been born
May 19, 1889 in the city of San Bernardino, where he attended the public schools. At the age of 17 years he moved to Los Angeles where he
resided the balance of his life. After attending business college, he
started his business career with the Los Angeles Gas and Electric Company. Twelve years later we find that he was in the wholesale electric
business for himself. In 1929 he entered the insurance field as Agency
Supervisor for the Guardian Life Insurance Company and continued
in that capacity until 1942 when he opened offices as an insurance
broker, which business he conducted until his death on April 12, 1948.
On March 22, 1916 he was united in marriage to Elizabeth Cohen
in the city of San Francisco and two fine sons were born of this union,
Sidney Kramer, Jr., and John Malcolm.
Brother Lehman's masonic career began October 14, 1912, when he
was initiated an Entered Apprentice Mason in Los Angeles Lodge No.
42. He was raised to the sublime Degree of Master Mason on November 18, 1912. Two years later he was given his first appointment as
Junior Steward and progressed through the several stations to that of
Worshipful Master in 1918. In 1921 he was appointed Inspector and
served his district with distinction until 1934. He was appointed Senior
Grand Deacon of this Grand Lodge in October 1933 and served until
October 1934.
After the death of Very Worshipful Thomas J. Baker, Grand Lecturer in 1934, it was the decision of the Grand Master, Most Worshipful James Black Gist, to try out a new system of teaching the ritual and
brother Lehman was chosen as Assistant Grand Lecturer for the southern district of the jurisdiction. On being requested to accept this appointment he asked the Grand Master if the position carried a salary
and when told that it did not, he replied that he would accept. His long

235

Sidney Lehman has passed beyond our sight, as we too shall pass;
but he has left with those who knew and loved him a cherished memory
that will live on through the years. His warm friendship, his cheerful
smile and his genuine good fellowship will be remembered and few wiU
forget his many virtues, particularly that of never saying an unkind
word about another. Others will take his place in Grand Lodge and time
will heal the sorrow of his passing, but as long as memory remains, we
will remember him as a loving husband, a proud father, a true and faithful friend and an ardent Mason, who believed in the teachings of our
institution and lived according to its principles.

l

Sid., we shall miss you: but we part with abfding faith in the hereafter and the firm belief that there is a life after death. We pray that
you may be happy in that Celestial Lodge above and that, when our appointed time shaII come, we may again clasp hands in a continuance of
that brotherhood and fraternal love we cherished. We know that life
goes on beyond this existence and that, like the flower that withers and
dies, it will spring to newness of life with the coming of the spring, as
best expressed in the words of the poet when he spoke of the rose:
"Onward it crept with towering strength
With never a thought of fear and pride,
Until it reached the light in the crevice length
And unfolded itself on the other side.
The light, the dew, the broadening view,
Were just the same as they were before,
But it lost itself in beauties new,
Breathing its fragrance more and more.
Shall claim of death cause us to grieve
And make our courage faint and fall,
Nay! Let us hope and faith receive,
The rose still grows beyond the wall.
Scattering fragrance here and there,
Just as it did in days of yore,
Just as it did on the other side,
Just as it will for ever more."

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PAST MASTERS OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
California Lodge No. 1:
· Walter Perry Johnson, died December 11, 1947.
Western Star Lodge No. 2:
Fred Lee Richardson, died September 29, 1947.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Calaveras Lodge No. 78:
Louis Cademartori, died April 19, 1948.
Naval Lodge No. 87:
Carl Leonard Rhodes, died August 23, 1947.
Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89:
William Garfield Robson, died July 23, 1948.

Corinthian Lodge No. 9:
Glenn Edgar Thomas, died October 22, 1947.
Harvey Dixon Eich, died March 21, 1948.

St. Helena Lodge No. 93:
Louis Grant Clark, died December 1, 1947.
Archie J. Johnson, died November 28, 1947.

Nevada Lodge No. 13:
Leroy W. Lobdell, died January 23, 1948.

Hornifos Lodge No. 98:
George Andrew Bates, Sr., died December 8, 1947.

Madison Lodge No. 23:
John Sanborn Corey, died March 13, 1948.

Yosemite Lodge No. 99:
Roy Edgar Lantz, died March 13, 1948.

Golden Gate Lodge No. 30:
Nicholas Frederick Munson, died April 13, 1948.

Oroville Lodge No. 103:
Henry Harrison Decker, died October 11, 1947.

Ophir Lodge No. 33:
David Eltrin.gham, died January 13, 1948.

Arcata Lodge No. 106:
Henry Stanly Seely, died March 2, 1948.
Willial Emerson McLellan, died January 9, 1948.

San Diego Lodge No. 35:
James Bertram McLees, died December 16, 1947.

Eden Lodge No. 113:
Herbert Lee Landis, died December 30, 1947.

Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38:
Percy Arthur Izant, died October 23, 1947.
Henry Rhein, died October 1, 1947.
Emmett Cloyd Rittenhouse, died January 13, 1948.
Herbert Chas. Still, died February 9, 1948.
Arthur Claire Parsons, died May 30, 1948.

Concord Lodge No. 117:
John Henry Gilpin, died.November 5, 1947.
William Kinkade Lindsay, died May 5, 1948.

Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
Marcus Fink, died February 1, 1948.
Sidney Kramer Lehman, died April 12, 1948.
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44:
George McLean, died September 23, 1947.
·
Raymond Nellis Murphy, died October 30, 1947.
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57:
William Piper Shearer, died May 4, 1948.
Hubert Wallace Beardin, died July 27, 1948.
Union Lodge No. 58:
·John Sturges McNaughton, died February 26, 1948.
Albert Edward Hart, died March 16, 1948.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61:
Ezra William Decoto, died April 6, 1948.

Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
Andrew Milton Armer, died February 11, 1948.
Theodore Cohn, died March 21, 1948.
Hermann Lodge No. 127:
George Albert Creon, died May 23, 1948.
Visalia Lodge No. 128:
Charles Joseph Henry Rausch, died December 21, 1947.
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131:
Ralph L. Clark, died May 27, 1948.
Crockett Lodge No. 139:
Edwin Joseph Kleinhans, died November 6, 1947.
Curtis Lodge No. 140:
Samuel Elliott Sanford, died March 16, 1948.
Abell Lodge No. 146:
Frederick Murdock McKenzie, died December 21, 1947.

Natoma Lodge No. 64:
George Hamilton Eveland, died April 9, 1948.

Lassen Lodge No. 149:
Joshua Baker McQueen, died May 22, 1948.
Leon Robert Cady, died May 29, 1948.
Ross Eber Bangham, died May 24, 1948.

Enterprise Lodge No. 70:
John Paxton Onstott, died April 20, 1948.

Molino Lodge No. 150:
George Charles Simpson, died January 24, 1948.

237

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Woodland Lodge No. 156:
Harry Sinclair Summers, died December 13, 1947.
Excelsior Lodge No. 166:
John Martin Knudsen, died December 26, 1947.
Alameda Lodge No. 167:
George Peter Hellwig, died February 16, 1948.
Ralph Addison Richmond, died December 7, 1947.
Mission Lodge No. 169:
Lew Edward Wallace, died December 28, 1947.
Petaluma Lodge No. 180:
Edwin Everett Carmodyt died August 21, 1947.
Arthur Edward Owen, died March 4 ,1948.
Keith Lodge No. 187:
Henry Hecker, died December 31, 1947.
Mountain View Lodge No. 194:
Walter Allen Crossman, died September 30, 1947.
Edward Eastwood Mylrea, died February 13, 1948.
Joseph Winfred Lovejoy, died February 19, 1948.
Wilmington Lodge No. 198:
William Harold Harrison, died July 18, 1948.
Hartley Lodge No. 199:
William Harold La_ity, died April 18, 1948.
Truckee Lodge No. 200:
Eric Gustav Gram, died February 7, 1948.
Olivet Lodge No. 205:
Mason Nutting Case, died July 13, 1948.
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206:
Clarence Eugene Tucker, died December 23, 1947.
Rio Vista Lodge No. 208:
Harry Kerrison Stewart, died April 15, 1948.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Roseville Lodge No. 222:
William Charles Ferguson, died May 24, 1948.
Athens Lodge No. 228:
Thomas Brady, died January 14, 1948.
Colusa Lodge No. 240:
James William Blean, died October 31, 1947.
McPherson Montgomery, died February 23, 1948.
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241:
Earl George Glenn, died January 1, 1948.
Magnolia Lodge No. 242:
Andrew H. Smith, died August 17, 1947.
Charles Fisher Lemmon, died April 20, 1948.
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244:
Moroni Holm, died January 11, 1948.
Pomona Lodge No. 246:
James Wolstencroft, died September 2, 1947.
Alturas Lodge No. 248:
Ernest Chappell Bonner, died November 15, 1947.
Reading Lodge No. 254:
Samuel LeNere Gilman, died March 7, 1948.
Evergreen Lodge No. 259:
Harry Walter Hammond, died July 3, 1948.
Hesperian Lodge No. 264:
Louis Joseph Morris, died July 28, 1948.
Galt Lodge No. 267:
Jesse Ellis Maxwell, died November 11, 1947.
Durant Lodge No. 268:
Edwin Miles Hills, died August 10, 1947.
Wilfred Joseph Smith, died March 3, 1948.
Anchor Lodge No. 273:
William Boyne Jr., died October 3, 1947.
Thomas H. Parrish, died February 8, 1948.

Friendship Lodge No. 210:
Henry H. Buell, died January 12, 1948.
Clayton St. John Hale, died October 8, 1947.

Hanford Lodge No. 279:
Richard Thomas Grimshaw, died May 11, 1948.

San Benito Lodge No. 211:
Archie D. McKinnon, died March 30, 1948.
Fred Lewis Barbhisel, died July 25, 1948.

Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281:
Otto George Frantz, died May 15, 1948.
Charles Henry Spann, died June 3, 1948.

San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214:
John Elmer Noyes, died March 9, 1948.

South West Lodge No. 283:
Cicero Parson Evans, died March 10, 1948.
Joseph Masten Kendall, died June 20, 1948.

Monterey Lodge No. 217:
Will Emory Parker1 died January 31, 1948.
Frederick Daniel EJSenhart, died July 27, 1948.

San Miguel Lodge No. 285:
Thomas H. Rougeot, died May 3, 1948.

Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219:
Lou~ Valsangiacomo, died November 27, 1947.

Winnedumah Lodge No. 287:
Walter Thomas Clark, died February 14, 1948.

239

240

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Elsinore Lodge No. 289:
Herbert Albert Svonger, died March 7, 1948.
East Gate Lodge No. 290:
Harry Howard Sherrard, died April ~8, 1948.
Traver Lodge No. 294:
Roy Clark Bishop, died December 11, 1947.
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297:
Jeffrey William Hawkins, died April 25, 1948.
Porterville Lodge No. 303:
Harry August Schultz, died October 19, 1947.
Robert Horbach, died December 23, 1947.
Azusa Lodge N·o. 305:
Charles Henry Lee, died November 7, 1947.
Ashlar Lodge No. 306:
Oscar Delfield Guire, died March 14, 1948.
Clifford Harvey Maxwell, died March 28, 1948.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307:
William Melville King, died September 27, 1947.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308:
Richard Bates Cowan, died April 26, 1948.
Edgar Francis Tinkham, died January 27, 1948.
Lawrence Newton Wheeler, died October 24, 1947.
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313:
Harold Robert Bandhauer, died May 3, 1948.
Sanger Lodge No. 316:
William Frederick Betzold, died March 17, 1948.
Emanuel Lodge No. 318:
Frank E. Archambault, died June 21, 1948.
Golden W. Sitton, died July 4, 1948.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319:
W. Denning Johnston, died September 1, 1947.
Wilfred Joseph Sanborn, died September 8, 1947.
Charles Augustus Charlton, died September 23, 1947.
Whittier Lodge No. 323:
Arthur Jerome West, died November 20, 1947.
Redondo Lodge N·o. 328:
Russell Senft Minech, died January 28, 1948.
Franklin Edward Blausey, died March 30, 1948.
Thomas Eldridge Venable, died May 14, 1948.
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329:
Jules Viole, died January 21, 1948.
Louis P. Chabre, died January 27, 1948.
Frank A. Bouelle, died March 27, 1948.
San Jacinto Lodge No. 338:
Arthur R. Hazeltine, died February l, 1948.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fullerton Lodge No. 339:
Samuel J. Lewis, died February 22, 1948.
Henry Clay McMaster, died March 28, 1948.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341:
John Franklin Petit, died May 26, 1948.
Sequoia Lodge No. 349:
Orville Benton Caldwell, died December 3, 1947.
Pinole Lodge No. 353:
Adolphus Delbert Hinton, died December 28, 1947.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355:
Thomas Bloxom Buchan, died June 13, 1948.
James William Crosby, died December 13, 1947.
Loyalton Lodge No. 359:
Oscar Swanson, died March 18, 1948.
San Francisco Lodge No. 360:
Fred Ordway Shutts, died June 4, 1948.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363:
Charles James Stone, 'died April 6, 1948.
Las Pahnas Lodge No. 366:
Clarence Nelson Williams, died April 6, 1948.
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367:
Edward Everett Barden, died November 12, 1947.
Amity Lodge No. 370:
Francis Joseph Lyttle, died October 26, 1947.
James Stanley Wrinkle, died December 23, 1947.
Leigh Erskine Whitehill, died May 20, 1948.
le Progres de L'Oceanie Lodge No. 371:
William Elderkin Kerr, died October 14, 1947.
George Martin Meyers, died June 29, 1948.
Gardena Lodge No. 372:
Frank R. Carrell, died September 27, 1947.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373:
Cyrus Lloyd Edinger, died May 3, 1948.
Artesia Lodge No. 377:
Franklin Day Caldwell} died August 22, 1947.
Roy William Carver, died June 9, 1948.
Mizpah Lodge No. 378:
Richard C. Rein, died February 7, 1948.
Joseph A. Kelly, died June 20, 1948.
Parnassus Lodge No. 388:
John Cornelius Doest, died October 22, 1947.
Balder Lodge No. 393:
John Olof Hanson, died September 14, 1947.

241

242

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Apollo Lodge No. 396:
Oscar George Lake, died September 15, 1947.

Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463:
John Telfer, died December 23, 1947.

Rising Light Lodge No. 397:
Charles Johnson Dossett, died January 4, 1948.

Culver City Lodge No. 467:
Lawrence Henry Wilson, died January 8, 1948.

Burlingame Lodge No. 400:
Louis Augustine Murch, died May 26, 1948.

Lincoln Lodge No. 470:
Arthur M. Joel, died October 17, 1948.
Delta Lodge No. 471:
Parke Edwin Grady, died February 20, 1948.

· Bay View Lodge No. 401:
James Black Muir, died March 4, 1948.
Percival Lockhart David Rankin, died March 9, 1948.
Albert Francis Lovsie, died May 15, 1948.

Maui Lodge No. 472:
David Colville Lindsay, died March 7, 1948.

Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403:
William Fitch Elder, died March 5, 1948.
Harold Arthur Osborne, died May 24, 1948.

Temblor Lodge No. 477:
Derwood Francis Devlin, died April 6, 1948.

Moneta Lodge No. 405:
Nathaniel Beach Johnson, died December 24, 1947.

Patterson Lodge No. 488:
Frank Euclid McConnell, died May 15, 1948.

La Mesa Lodge No. 407:
Byron Q. R. Cannon, died October 2, 1947.

Roosevelt Lodge No. 500:
Bruce Dillon Tingley, died April 16, 1948.

Elysian Lodge No. 418:
John Jacob Stadon, died January 6, 1948.
Rae Gird Van Cleve, died February 14, 1948.

Harbor Lodge No. 502:
Francis Harry Wilkins, died October 1, 1947.

Pittsburg Lodge No. 429:
Harry W. Reinhart, died July 20, 1948.
Lancaster Lodge No. 437:
William John McAdam, died August 22, 1947.

Point Lodge No. 503:
Alfred Salon Petersen, died December 2, 1947.
Silver Cord Lodge No. 505:
William Iverson, died December 27, 1947.
Ward Hungate Sutton, died February 14, 1948.

Coronado Lodge No. 441:
William Davidson Rodgers, died August 13, 1947.

Sunnyvale Lodge No. 5Il:
John Frederick Carl Kay, died April 1, 1948.
William John Blanken, died July 31, 1948.

Schofield Lodge No. 443:
Charles Crawford Pittam, died July 18, 1948.

Palms Lodge No. 512:
John Lane, died March 22, 1948.

Wilshire Lodge No. 445:
James Linn Van Norm.an, died February 29, 1948.

Taft Lodge No. 516:
Harry Wilson Beatty, died October 26, 1947.

Torrance Lodge No. 447:
Clinton Woodford Northrup, died January 14, 1948.

La Jolla Lodge No. 518:
Fred Alvin Fay, died September 30, 1947.

Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448:
Merton Henry Newhall, died June 11, 1948.

Piedmont Lodge No. 521:
George Roeth, Jr., died March 25, 1948.

Van Nuys Lodge No. 450:
Thomas Edward Cleland, died November 13, 1947.

Bellflower Lodge No. 523:
John Henry Bradhoff, died April 20, 1948.

Bethlehem Lodge No. 453:
Charles William Green ,died January 27, 1948.

Loyalty Lodge No. 529:
Albert 0. Switzer, died May 27, 1948.

Golden West Lodge No. 455:
James Daniel McAlpin, died April 25, 1948.

Smyrna Lodge No. 532:
Charles Herbert Austin, died D~ember 15, 11147.

Paul Revere Lodge No. 462:
John Cox, died February 3, 1948.

Azure Lodge No. 533:
Homer C. Tidwell, died April 26, 1948.

243

244

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jordan Lodge No. 654:
Stephen Ban, died June 24, 1948.
Livingston Lodge No. 658:
William Edward Rasor, died July 5, 1948.
Baldwin Park Lodge No. 660:
Charles Albitz Ryan, died October 20, 1947.
Kaweah Lodge No. 665:
Byron Berdell Corbit, died July 21, 1948.
Meridian Lodge No. 667:
Henry Richard Von Bloeker, died January 29, 1948.
San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668:
Arthur Harrold, died May 6, 1948.

Seal Rock Lodge No. 536:
Gus William Kramer, died May 7, 1948.
Ascot Lodge No. 538:
Alderson Alonzo Austin, died October 12, 1947.
Lankershim Lodge No. 542:
Henry. Deupree Myers, died March 29, 1948.
Seaport Lodge No. 550:
John Alpers, died April 13, 1948.
Semper Virens Lodge No. 552:
William Nelson Speegle, died December 4, 1947.
Point Firmin Lodge No. 558:
Arthur Vincent Anderson, died June 8, 1948.

Pyramid Lodge No. 562:
Fred Andrew McNulty, died October 19, 1947.

Greenleaf Lodge No. 670:
Thomas P. Smith, died November 14, 1947.
Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672:
William John Harris, died July 16, 1948.

West Adams Lodge No. 565:
Frank Bryant Anderson, died May 5, 1948.

Modesto Lodge No. 675:
Ferris Douglas Hobron, died April 30, 1948.

James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566:
William Bertrand Stevens, died August 22, 1947.

Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677:
;Fred Hyde Oster, died April 16, 1948.

Military Service Lodge No. 570:
Don Wesley Farr, died July 31, 1948.

Pohona Lodge No. 689:
Morley P. Bradley, died July 31, 1948.

East San Diego Lodge No. 561:
Eugene B. Smith, died April 19, 1948.

James Madison Lodge No. 572:
John Van Renssalaer Koester, died December 25, 1947.

A.t 11 :45 A.M. Grand Lodge called off until 10 o'clock Thursday
mommg.

Valley Forge Lodge No. 587:
Salvatore Bonura, died August 13, 1947.
Tujunga Lodge No. 592:
Claude Allen Doyle, died November 15, 1947.
Irving Eugene Heckman, died May 1, 1948.
William Nicholson, died July 13, 1948.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600:
Walter H. Fleming, Jr., died January 31, 1948.
Canoga Lodge No. 611:
Merrick Osborn Gschwind, died August 30, 1947.
Neptune Lodge No. 619:
Harold Kemp, died June 17, 1948.
Atwater Lodge No. 622:
.Tesse Herbert Stephens, died May 2, 1948.
Chula Vista Lodge No. 626:
Austin Mark Fuller, died January 12, 1948.
Fontana Lodge No. 653:
Richard Reindell, died November 23, 1947.

245

,

246

247

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Thursday, O~tober 14, 1948

Grand Jurisdiction for the remaining degrees or degree, accompanying
it with the fees required therefor."

MORNING SESSION

Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 A. M., the Grand Master
presiding.
The Grand Chaplain invoked the blessing of God.
Brother Peter F. Jensen, Past Master of Fresno Lodge No. 247,
presided in the East during the entrance of the Grand Lodge Officers.
The minutes of the Morning Session of Wednesday, October 13th,
were read and approved.
A telegram of greeting from Past Grand Master Randolph V.
Whiting was read.
* * * *
The following resolutions were presented:
.
Resolved. That Section 208 of Ordinances be amended by inserting
between the words "neither" and "a slave" in line 2, the words "convicted of a felony" so that said line 2 will read
"eunuch: free born, being neither Convicted of a felony, a slave nor
the son of a bond woman, a believer in God."
Committee on Policy and General Purposes
and Committee on Jurisprudence.
A motion by the Joint Committee that the resolution be adopted,
was defeated.
* * * *
A Motion by Past Grand Master Oscar Lawler prevailed that
.there be included in the reference form for application for degrees the
question, "Have you ever been convicted of a felony?"
* * * *
Resolved, That there be added to the present form "Application for
Degrees" the words "Present Occupation" on the line just above the
words Business Address.
M. L. GRIFFITH
Past Master South Gate Lodge No. 320
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes, which committee recommended that it be held over to the next annual communication and Grand Lodge concurred.

*

*

*

*

Resolved, That the last sentence of Section 243 of Ross Digest be
amended by inserting the words "in California or in any other Grand
Jurisdiction" between the words "Lodge" and "for" in the third line of
said sentence.
As amended said sentence will then read as foilows: "An Entered
A·pprentice or Fellow Craft may, after receiving a waiver of jurisdiction
from his Lodge, apply to another Lodge in California or in any other

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE

Past Grand Master
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes, Committee
on Jurisprudence.
* * * *
Resolved, That a new section be added to our Ordinances, reading
as follows:
"Section 243-A. An Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft who has
permanently removed from the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge may,
with the consent of his Lodge, approved by the Grand Master of the
jurisdiction to which he has removed, apply to a Lodge in tb,e latter
jurisdiction for the remaining degree or degrees, and if elected to
receive such degree or degrees, withdraw from his Lodge in this
jurisdiction."
By:
The Committees · on Policy and General Purposes and on Jurisprudence.
The above resolution, presented with the concurrence of both committees, was adopted by a 5-6 vote and no action was taken on the
resolution by Past Grand Master Moore.

*

* * *

Resolved, That a new section numbered 243B be added to our
Ordinances as follows:
243B. If, and when the remaining degrees have been conferred as
provided for in Section 243A, then the Lodge in this Jurisdiction shall
return to such candidate, if requested so to do by him, all unearned
fees and th~ Grand Secretary shall, upon proper notification to him by
the Lodge, return to it the Masonic Homes Contribution and the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Contribution theretofore
transmitted to him and the Lodge shall thereupon return them to the
Candidate.
Respectfully submitted,
CHESTER H. WARLOW

P. M. of Fresno Lodge No. 247
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Jurisprudence, and with these committees concurring, the resolution
was adopted by a 5-6 vote.

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

249

Distinguished Guests

8TEREOPTICON EQUIPMENT

Three distinguished guests-John I. Preissner, Past Grand Master
and Grand Secretary of Washington, 0. C. Hagmeier, Past Grand
Master of Oregon, and C. G. Patterson, Past Grand Master of Oregon,
were received by Grand Lodge and escorted to places in the East.

There has been referred to the Committee on Ritual the following
resolution:
"Whereas, the Most Worshipful Grand Master of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California has issued an order
to all Masonic Lodges under his jurisdiction prohibiting the use
of stereopticon equipment in connection with the Lodge degree
work: and

Most Worshipful Lloyd K. McRae, Grand Master of Masons in
Oregon, was invited to address Grand Lodge which he did with great
interest to the Brethren, laying particular emphasis on the high standard
of our Masonic Home which he had visited.

"Whereas, after due and proper consideration the members
of Oceanside Lodge Number 381 Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California have concluded that the use of said
equipment is of value not only to those who are now members of
the Fraternity but also of great and distinctive value to those who
are receiving their first steps in Masonry: now therefore

Most Worshipful John I. Preissner, Past Grand Master and Grand
Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Washington, and official representative of M. W. Delos Shiner, Grand Master of Masons in Washington,
at the invitation of the Grand Master addressed Grand Lodge, and his
remarks were received wtih enthusiasm.

Be It Resolved, That the Worshipful Grand Master be and
is hereby respectfully requested to reconsider his order prohibiting the use of stereopticon equipment and that said order be
recinded."

Report of Ritual Committee
OFFICERS' COACH

There has been referred to the Committee on Ritual the resolution
of Brother Joseph F. Hogan proposing that Section 53, Subsection 3-A
be amended to read as follows:

Your Committee wishes to point out that the manufacture, possession or use of stereopticon slides or any other medium which portrays
visually the esoteric work of the degrees of Masonry is a violation of
Masonic obligations.

"To appoint in each Lodge within his District an Officers'
Coach, who shall be a qualified Past Master of the Lodge, and
who shall be acceptable to the Officers thereof. The Officers'
Coach shall serve at the pleasure of the Inspector and shall assist
in teaching the ritual to the Officers of his Lodge, and assist in
preparing them to qualify for advancement."
The effect of this proposed amendment will be to provide that the
selection by the Inspector of an Officers' Coach shall be limited to one
who will be acceptable to the Officers of the Lodge.

We therefore recommend that the aforesaid resolution be not
adopted.
Adopted.
MASONIC INFORMATION BOOKLETS

The Committee on Ritual has made a hurried examination of the
proposed booklets prepared by the Committee on Information covering
the Second and Third Degrees. This report was placed in our hands on
Wednesday afternoon of this week.

With this proposal your Committee is not in agreement. From long
association with, and observation of, men who become Past Masters
of Lodges, the Inspector is the best qualified individual to select the
Officers' Coach.

The material contained therein is too complex and voluminous to
permit a careful study during this Communication. We recommend that
copies be furnished to each member of the Ritual Committee, who will
made a careful examination and thereafter report to the Grand Master.

Experience proves that too much difficulty is encountered in arriving
at an agreement among a group of men. It too often results in a compromise which fails to select the best qualified.

Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR M. WARREN
MERVYN E. HANSHAW
WALTER H. E. VONKONSKY
OBED
CARR

We feel that no limitation should be placed upon the Inspector in
the discharge of this important function.
We therefore recommend that the proposed amendment be not
adopted.
Adopted.

w.

FRANK HARWELL, JR.

(

Adopted.

250

251

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Committee on Policy & General Purposes

sixteen Grand Lodges of sixteen different States in Mexico, some of
which we now recognize. It has jurisdiction over fifty-nine symbolic
lodges, all situated in the State of Vera Cruz. It does not invade the
jurisdiction of any other body.
We recommend that the Grand Lodge of California recognize the
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana.

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes respectfully submits the following report on subjects submitted to it for consideration
and recommendation:
RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LoDGES

Tests of Recognition
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has been guided
by the tests for extending fraternal relations to other Grand Bodies
provided for by the resolution of Grand Lodge set out in the Proceedings
of 1913 at page 163 and the Proceedings of 1918 at page 159. The
Grand Lodge applying for recognition must show to this Grand Lodge
that it complies with the following requirements:
1. A belief in God.
2. That the Three Great Lights of Masonry, the Bible, the Square
and the Compasses shall always be on the altar of the Grand Lodge
and its subordinates when at work.
3. Secrecy.
4. That men only shall be admitted to membership.
5. That the Grand Lodge shall be independent of any other body or
bodies and shall be the sovereign and supreme authority over the three
symbolic degrees and shall exercise undisputed control over its constituent lodges.
6. That it teaches the Third Degree Legend.
7. That such Grand Lodge shall have been lawfully authorized by
three or more regularly constituted Lodges. '
8. That the ancient landmarks, customs and usages of the Craft shall
be strictly observed.
9. That no such Grand Lodge shall engage in religious or political
controversy and shall not tolerate a discussion of either in the Grand
Lodge or Lodges of its obedience.
We find, after due investigation, that the following Grand Lodges
are entitled to recognition: The Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana, the
Grand Lodge Francisco de Paula Santander, the Grand Lodge of the
State of Ceara, the Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande do Sul and the
Grand Lodge of Finland.
I.
GRAND LoDGE liNIDA MEXICANA

The Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana located in the State of Vera
Cruz, Republic of Mexico, and having its seat at Vera Cruz, is sovereign and independent and belongs to the Confederation composed of

II.
GRAND LoDGE FRANCISCO DE PAULA SANTANDER

The Grand Lodge Francisco de Paula Santander is seated at Cucuta,
Colombia. It is situated in the eastern part of Colombia, which is a cattle
country containing the head-waters of the Jungle rivers of South
America. We recognize the other three Grand Lodges domiciled in the
Republic of Colombia and this fourth Grand Lodge has recently been
organized and is asking for our recognition. The reason for the four
Grand Lodges in the Republic of Colombia is that the Andes Mountains
make great barriers, difficult to cross, between the valley sections in
which the Grand Lodges are situated. It is an unusual situation and
warrants the establishment of these several Grand Lodges. The National Grand Lodge of Colombia, which is recognized by us, changed
its Constitution to make it permissible for this Grand Lodge to be established as a Soreveign Grand Lodge with the consent of at least three
regularly constituted G~and Lodges. The newly created Grand Lodge
is now recognized by the Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogata, the
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena and the National Grand Lodge
of Berranquilla, all of Colombia, and all recognized by us. The new
Grand Lodge occupies a territory comprising the States of Santander
and North Santander, which was ceded to it by the National Grand
Lodge of Barranquilla. One of the subordinates of the new Grand Lodge
works in the English language.
Roberto Ardila Ordonez is the Grand Master and Allan R. Corinaldi is Grand Secretary.
Your Committee recommends that the Grand Lodge of California
recognize the Grand Lodge of Francisco de Paula Santander.

III.
GRAND LoDGE OF THE STATE OF CEARA

The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara, Brazil, was founded in
March 1928 by three lodges and it holds jurisdiction over the State of
Ceara, having its seat at Fortaleza, the capital of the State of Ceara.
It is situated south of the Amazon River and north of the State of Bahia
and is in the Tropics. It is presently composed of eighteen lodges, six
of them in Fortaleza and twelve in the several towns in the interior and
stands upon the same basis as the seven State Grand Lodges in Brazil

252

,

253

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

which are now recognized by the Grand Lodge of California. This
Grand Lodge is recognized by the Grand Lodges of New York, Louisi~
ana, Kentucky, North Carolina and perhaps others.
Julia Viana de Silva Tavares is the Grand Master and Luis Nepomu~
cano de Mattos is the Grand Secretary.
Your committee recommends that the Grand Lodge of California
recognize the Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara.

The Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Finland is Gunnar
Jaatinen and the Grand Secretary is Eino Kyllonen. Address of the
Grand Lodge is Vyokatu 9, B-14. Helsinki.
Your committee recommends that the Grand Lodge of California
recognize the Grand Lodge of Finland.
Your committee has applications for recognition from other Grand
Lodges and with respect to those Grand Lodges it reports as follows:
Your committee has considered the application of the Syrian-Lebanese Grand Lodge .for recognition, but has not completed its investigation and recommends that the same await a more settled religious
and political condition in Syria, The Lebanon and Palestine.
We have before us a request for recognition of Grosse Freimaurerloge, Zuden Alten Pflichten, whose Orient is Berlin and which claims
to be descended from the Hamburg Grand Lodge, from which we have
not withdrawn our recognition, but with whom we have not had fraternal intercourse for several years, due to the war.
The petitioning Lodge has been established by eight of the Lodges
of the Grand Lodge of Hamburg, which were reorganized in 1946.
The representations made to your committee lead us to feel that we
would be justified in recognizing this Grand Lodge when the political
and social conditions are more settled in Germany. Your committee
therefore recommends that action on the application be postponed until
.
the next annual communication of Grand Lodge.
The situation in Italy, social. political and Masonic, is so confused
that the applications from the Grand Lodges claiming to represent Masonry in that country should be postponed until the codintions become
more stable and we are better able to choose from the contenders for
Masonic recognition.

IV.
GRAND SYMBOLIC LoDGE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL

This Grand Lodge is the only Masonic power recognized in the
State of Rio Grande do Sul, which is a vast area in the southwest part of
Brazil. It is in the Temperate Zone, with climate much like the border- .
ing States of Argentina and Uruguay.
This Grand Lodge was organized in 1927 and has adopted the
principles and usages of the Craft as set for the in the Constitution
adopted by the United Grand Lodge of England in 1723. It does not invade the jurisdiction of any other Masonic power. It has the same status
as the other State Grand Lodges of Brazil. of which number we already
recognize seven.
Dr. Cezar Bomhgahren is the Grand Master and Jonas H. Py is ·
Secretary of Foreign Relations. The Grand Lodge has its seat at Porto
Alegre.
Your committee therefore recommends that the Grand Lodge of California recognize the Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande do Sul.

v.
GRAND LoDGE OF FINLAND

After many hardships during the past war years, the Grand Lodge of
Finland has been able to revive Masonic work in Finland, which it is
carrying on energetically in that borderland between East and West.
The first recognition of the Grand Lodge of Finland was granted by the
Grand Lodge of New York in May, 1924. The Constitution, practices
and principles of the Grand Lodge of Finland are based upon the Constitution of the Grand Lodge of New York and is practically the same.
The regulations, definitions and rules of order of the Grand Lodge of
New York are followed almost to the letter and the landmarks, old
charges and ritual are in strict conformity with those u~ed in the Grand
Lodge of New York. It is composed of three local Blue Lodges working
in Helsinki, one in Tampere, one in Turku and one in Pori.
The gallant Masons of Finland have made a brave fight for their
country and their Masonry and are recognized by the United Grand
Lodge of England, the Grand Lodges of Scotland, Ireland, The Netherlands, North Carolina, New York, Missouri, Kentucky and others.

GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC NATIONAL MEMORIAL

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred the report of the Special Committee on George Washington
Masonic Memorial. beg leave to report:
The Committee commends the effort of the Grand Master to bring
to completion that memorial and is in hearty accord with recommendation of the Committee to seek an amendment of the articles of incorporation of the Memorial Association to include the allied grand bodies of
Masonry as members of that Association.
A reading of the report indicates that much of the reform in the
structure and operation of the Memorial Association recommended by
this Grand Lodge at the 1947 Communication has been accomplished.
We therefor recommend that the l 5c per capita assessment be continued and that the requirement that each newly raised Master Mason
contribute the sum of One Dollar to the Endowment Fund of the

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

George Washington Masonic National Memorial be continued until
that endowment is completed. We further recommend that the officers
of this Grand Lodge invested with authority to act, do give careful
consideration as to whether it would now be advisable to release all or
part of the impounded funds which have been accumulated and set aside
for the construction of a Memorial.
Adopted.
OPEN INSTALLATIONS

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration a communication from Brother John Isola, Past Master
of Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219 submitting a "Motion" that Grand
Lodge forbid public installations. ·
Brother Isola, in support of his Motion, recites as follows: "I have
visited some Lodges which have had Public Installations. More or less
some errors have been made. For instance, in one particular Lodge I
saw two members give the Third Degree sign, and one of these was a
Past Master."
Your Committee recognizes that the giving of degree signs by a
careless or impulsive brother under the circumstances recited is most
regrettable, but bdieves sue~ occurences are extremely rare.
·
The holding of public installations is favored by a large number of
Lodges, giving much pleasure and satisfaction not only to officers and
members but also to their families and friends. These Lodges, your
Committee, is confident, would be loath to dispense with such ceremonials and we find no sufficient justification for requiring them to do so.
We therefore recommend that Brother lsola's Motion be rejected.
Adopted.
REFRESHMENT FUND INCREASE

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideration a resolution submitted by Brother Bryce C. Rathbun,
Senior Warden of Security Lodge Number 581, proposing the adoption of an amendment to Section 159 of the Ordinances to allow a
greater percentage of the total revenue of Lodges to be used for refreshments and the promotion of fraternal intercourse. As it now stands
Section 159 allows twenty per cent of Lodge revenue to be used for the
purposes stated. Brother Rathbun would increase ·the allowance to
thirty per cent.
It is indicated that Grand Lodge at this Communication will be
called upon to consider a decidedly substantial increase in the per
capita tax. This will be necessitated by the requirements of our Masonic

l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

255

Homes as well as by other matters involving considerable expenditures.

1

Facing the probability of this increase in per capita tax, a burden
which will be seriously felt by many Lodges, your Committee doubts
that the constituency of Grand Lodge will consider it wise to increase
the allowance for social purposes .until a later period when the tax can
again be reduced.
Your Committee therefore recommends that the proposed resolution
be_not adopted.
Adopted.
MASONIC HOMES BOARD INCREASE

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred that portion of the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes
relating to the proposed amendment of the articles of incorporation to
provide for a board of nine trustees instead of seven, as at present, has
had the consideration of your Committee, and it recommends that the
approval of this Grand Lodge be given to the making of such amendment, such approval to be in such form and executed by such officers and
in such manner as may be required by the Corporation Code of
California.
Adopted.
STUDY OF TRIAL PROCEDURE

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was referred that portion of the Grand Master's Message designated as
Recommendation ( g) by which the Grand Master recommends that a
special committee to study Masonic trial procedure of the several
Grand Jurisdictions and to recommend revisions in our trial ordinances
has given the same consideration.
Your Committee is not sufficiently advised at present to determine
whether there be a need for revision of our trial proceedure but believe
that if this portion of our code can be improved it should be done, and
therefore approve the Grand Master's recommendation for the appointment of the proposed committee of investigation.
Adopted.
MASONIC INFORMATION BOOKLETS

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred the report of the Committee on Masonic Information has given
the same its consideration and begs leave to report that it has read the
booklets prepared by that Committee for presentation to the candidates

256

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

at the conclusion of the conferring of the Fellow Craft and Master
Mason degree and find them to be of the same high character and educational value found in the two previous booklets prepared by the Committee.
Your Committee of Policy and General Purposes is of the opinion
that the work of the Committee on Masonic Education is of the highest
value to the Craft, and that we should make every effort to avail ourselves of its benefits.
Your Committee is informed that some Lodges have not taken
advantage of the opportunity thus afforded them to furnish their candidates with this fundamental knowledge of Masonry. We think that this
is a decided detriment to the Craft.
Probably at no time in the life of a man elected to receive the degrees
of Masonry will he be so receptive of efforts to inform him of the
institution as at the time of his receiving the degrees. Possibly some
candidates will never have any interest in Masonry beyond receiving
its degrees and participating in its social activities. On the other hand,
the great majority will seek further knowledge of the institution and
your Committee believes that these booklets will open the eyes of the
candidate to the wide field before him for further search and investigation.
Your Committee therefore recommends to Grand Lodge the publication of the "Book of the Fellowcraft" and the "Book of the Master
Mason" the texts of which have been submitted by the Committee on
Masonic Information, and we further recommend that the Lodges of
this Jurisdiction be required to present to each of its candidates at the
proper period in their progress as candidates, a copy of each of the four
booklets prepared by that Committee.
Adopted.
TWENTY-FIVE YEAR BUTTONS

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred the resolution offered by Pasadena Lodge No. 272, requesting
Grand Lodge to consider the feasibility of issuing 25-year buttons to
those Masons in this Jurisdiction who have been members of the fraternity for twenty-five years, has given the same consideration.
We think the word "feasibility" is not perhaps the most apt word
or the one conveying the exact intended meaning. We assume that
it would be desirable.
We now issue a 50-year button. There is much dignity and considerable honor attached to this decoration by those who have received
it. It comes to them at a period in life when hope of further honors as

(

257

the result of further personal effort is usually absent. It comes to those
who may have been honored by the gift of office in the fraternity and
it comes likewise to those who have never held office but by their long
attachment to the principles and the institution of Masonry have by
such fealty demonstrated their forthiness to receive this decoration.
The issuance of 25-year buttons would, we think, have none of these
reasons for justification and we further think such issue would cheapen
an emblem now issued to our veterans and to which the fraternity should
and does look with honor and reverence.
Adopted.
At 12 Noon Grand Lodge called off until 2:00 P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION

Grand Lodge was called on at 2:00 P. M., the Grand Master
presiding.
Committee on Policy and General Purposes Report continued.
GRAND LODGE INCORPORATION
GRAND LODGE LEGAL REPRESENTATION

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred, jointly with the Jurisprudence Committee, the Resolution
offered by M.W. Arthur W. Brouillet of the Jurisdiction Committee,
which resolution is divided into three parts, the first two of which deal
with the incorporation of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge as a legal
eutity under the Corporation Code of California as a non profit corporation and the third part with a participation in certain litigation now
pending in our civil courts, has had the same under consideration and
beg leave to report as follows:
Regarding the incorporation of this Grand Lodge, this Committee
is of the firm opinion that "The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California" organized in
strict accord with Masonic usage and legally existing in accordance with
the civil law of our State of California, possessed of a seal, and composed of nearly six hundred constituent Lodges and acting through their
representatives in Grand Lodge assembled, and represented by its
Grand Master and other officers, for, now, almost one hundred years,
is a duly constituted voluntary association of ancient and recognized
form existing in conformity to civil law and will be protected by the
codes of our civil law and by the rules of equity in the exclusive use
of that name as against appropriat~on by any organization, body politic
group or association clandestine or otherwise, in the use of the name
"The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of California". or of any name of similar words import or

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

implication, should an attempt be made to invade our right to the
exclusive use of the name we are amply protected in its use even to the
exdusion of an incorporated company that assumed to use the same.
The basis upon which this considered opinion is expressed lies in technical legal and equitable principles, which to any lawyer, are well known
and which to here incorporate would run this report to an unconscionable length and which if so expressed would be only confusing and
unintelligible to the layman.
We recommend that Grand Lodge do not incorporate itself either
in the manner proposed by the resolution or otherwise.
The third paragraph of that resolution proposes that Grand Lodge
shall engage lawyers and authorize them to appear in an action already
pending between two clandestine bodies claiming to be Masons, and
there file briefs as amici curiae ( friends of the court) and to make the
point that we are possessed of a prior right. There always remains the
possibility of an adverse decision and that perchance at some later date
we might be confronted with the statement that our right~ had been
adjudicated and that too, in a matter in which we are not rightly con~
cerned.
lrrespecive of whether the "Sons of Light" or " Hiram of Tyre" may
be successful in the pending litigation we are in nowise bound by that
litigation, and your Committee are of the opinion that is the wiser way
to leave it.
We therefore recommend that this part of the resolution be not
adopted.
Separate action was taken on each portion of the report and each
recommendation of the Committee was adopted.
OFFICER'S ASSOCIATION EXPENSE

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it that portion of the Grand Master's message in which he has held
that, individual Lodges, within an officer's association, may contribute
to the reasonable expenses of such association, while functioning as
such, in amounts as may be agreed upon by the respective Lodges and
that such contributions are necessary expenses of the Lodge.
That the providing, by the association of a reasonable meal for
the officers in attendance, together with the district inspectors, when
the purpose of the meeting is to facilitate and expedite the business of
the association, is a proper expenditure of the association's funds, but
that the providing of a banquet for the officers, or a meal. primarily
·
for social purposes, is not proper.
For many years this Grand Lodge has encouraged the formation of
officers' associations among its constituent Lodges as a means to the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.,

259

proper administration of Lodge affairs and the instruction of Lodge
Officers, by the Inspector in Masonic Law and Custom.
We feel that these meetings are conducive of much good to Masonry
in general and should be continued. We agree with the decision of the
Grand Master and offer the following recommendation and move its
adoption.
That decision 6 of the Grand Master, dealing with the expenditure
of Lodge funds for officers' association be approved .
Adopted.
GROUP DEGREES

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which has been
referred the resolution of Brother Henry H. Brown, Past Master of
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579, in which he proposes that the
Ritual Committee be instructed to modify the ritual to permit the initiation, passing and raising of candidates in groups of not to exceed .6ve
in the first and second section of the three degrees, begs leave to report
as follows:
We appreciate what the brother has in mind, but are of the opinion
that the conferring of degrees upon a class of candidates would not
accomplish the result he desires, that of increasing attendance and interest in degree meetings. We feel that every candidate who has been
found worthy to be elected into the fr~ternity is entitled to receive all
the light that can be conferred upon him personally and not as just a
member of a class. We feel that if this proposal were adopted, many
candidates would fail to receive the full value of the lessons we are
desirous of imparting.
We therefore offer the following recommendation and move its
adoption:
That the resolution of Brother Henry H. Brown, proposing that
our ritual be changed or modified to permit the conferring of the degrees
upon more than one candidate at the same time be not approved.
Adopted.
COLUMBIA TEMPLE RESTORATION

The Committee recommended that consideration await action by
the Finance Committee.
For the subsequent Committee Report, see Report of Finance Committee.
RELIEF OF LODGES

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has carefully considered that portion of the Grand Master's Message recommending
that Grand Lodge extend a generous hand to North East Lodge No.

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

266 and Georgetown Lodge No. 25, to assist them in the rebuilding of
their Temples, which were destroyed by fire.
Your Committee feels that it should not become an established
policy of this Grand Lodge to loan or contribute its funds to constituent
Lodge. however worthy the cause may be.
If relief and charity are attributes of Masonry and it is obligatory
upon Masons to relieve d~stress among their brethren, so f~r as they
are able to do so, it naturally follows that it should also be mcumbent
upon Lodges to help other Lodges that have come upon evil days.
Section 126 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge permits a Lodge to
solicit assistance from other Lodges, if granted permission to do so.
by the Grand Master.
Sections 157, 158 and 159, Ross Digest, enumerate the purposes for
which Lodge funds may be used and because it does not in~lu~e contributions to other Lodges, it has been correctly held that this is not a
proper use of Lodge funds.
We cannot believe that the brethren of this Jurisdiction are willing
to stand by and see some of the smaller and older Lodges cease to exist
because they have no place to meet. Masons have always answered the
call of the distressed and have never refused to extend a helping hand
to the needy within their ranks. Masonic Lodges should have the same
privilege.
We therefore offer the following recommendation and move its
adoption:
.
·
.
That a Lodge be permitted to contribute from its funds to the rehef
of other Lodges of this Jurisdiction, such amounts as it may deem
proper. if the request for assistance has been approved by the Grand
Master.
The report of the Committee was not adopted.
BENICIA TEMPLE

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a resolution by Lawrence X. Carroll, Master of Benicia
Lodge No. 5, proposing that the incoming Grand Master appoint a
Committee to investigate the purchase by Grand Lodge of the old
Masonic Temple at Benicia and to report its findings at the next Grand
Lodge Communication.
This Temple was the first official Masonic Temple built in California. The lumber of which the Lodge is constructed was donated by
Brother Semple. member of Benicia Lodge and President of the Constitutional Convention held at Monterey in 1849.
your Committee approves the proposal and recommends that it be
referred to the incoming Grand Master to appoint the Committee.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(

261

RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT REDUCTION

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a resolution by Brother Herbert R. Hargrave, Past Master
of Sun Garden Lodge No. 530, proposing that our Law regarding the
conferring of courtesy degrees on Entered Apprentice Masons and
Fellowcraft Masons of other Jurisdictions. which requires as a prerequisite twelve months residence in California, be changed to require
only six months residence.
Consideration has bttn given to the fact that these brethren from
other Jurisdictions may possess all the necessary qualifications to receive
the degrees of Masonry in California. But we cannot consider the
proposal favorably because we believe that six months would be too
short a time for us to ascertain this as a fact and to become acquainted
with these brethren. Moreover. there is apparently no need for rush,
after only Six months residence in California, in putting these brethren
through the degrees, nor for these brethren to make up their minds that
they wish to have their degrtts conferred upon them in California.
Experience has shown that one year at least is required to make sure
that an applicant meets our Masonic standards.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
Adopted.
GRAND LODGE MAGAZINE

..,

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes the report of the Grand Lodge Magazine Committee proposing that Grand Lodge publish a regular bulletin for the information and
education of the members of its constituent Lodges. The Magazine
Committee recommended against the publication of a magazine by
Grand Lodge for the reasons that the successful publication of a
magazine would require excessive capital and personnel and would
depend on advertising. which might result in abuses. Your Committee
is of the opinion that the idea of a means of communication from
Grand Lodge to the Brethren is sound and should be fostered, but
that a regular bulletin such as proposed would be impracticable. Experience has shown that the time. energy and expense required to do
the job well is not warranted by any reader interest. Moreover, the
successful publication of such a bulletin at regular periods, as in the
case of a magazine, would require a staff of skilled editorial. composing,
news-gathering, and mailing personnel. This would present additional
and unnecessary problems. burdens and expense on Grand Lodge. not
justified by the results to be attained.
Furthermore, means of communication are now available which are
ample for the purpose. Regular communicationJ and Committee Reports
from Grand Lodge go forth to the Lodges. Visitations are made by

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

officers of Grand Lodge. The Committee on Correspondence gives to
the California Craft an annual resume of things Masonic which is most
complete and covers a wide field. ·
Your Committee therefore recommends that the proposal be not
adopted.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

{

263

ASSISTANT GRAND TREASURER

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred that portion of the Grand Treasurer's Report recommending
the creation of the office of Assistant Grand Treasurer believes that
the recommendation is sound for the reasons set forth by the Grand
Treasurer and recommends its approval.
Adopted.

GRAND MASTERS' PORTRAITS

MONTHLY AUDIT

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a recommendation of the Grand Master in his annual message
that an allotment be made in an appropriate amount to improve and
complete the present gallery of paintings of Past 'Grand Masters. and
that presently and in the future an adequate appropriation be made
each year to paint the picture of the then incumbent Grand Master at
a time and place convenient to him.
Apparently, whether from lack of sufficient funds. or other reasons,
in some cases the portrait paintings have not reflected the really fine
faces of our Past Grand Masters. and three Past Grand Masters have
not yet had the courage to sit for their portraits.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred that portion of the Grand Treasurer's Report recommending a
monthly audit of disbursements by professional auditors concurs in the
recommendation and recommends its approval.
·
Adopted.

We approve the recommendation and recommend that it be referred
to your Committee on Finance for consideration and report.
Adopted.
MINIMUM DUES

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes a recommendation of the Grand Master that Section 251 of
our Ordinances which provides that $9.00 shall ·be the minimum annual
dues payable by a member to his Lodge be amended to be the sum of
$12.00 per year. For the reason given by the Grand Master, namely,
that the value of the dollar has materially decreased, and because many
of the Lodges need the increased revenue, your Committee approves
the recommendation.
The Committee on Jurisprudence concurs in this recommendation.
Adopted.
WESTERN STAR PLAQUE

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was referred the resolution of Albert F. Ross, Past Master of Reading Lodge
No. 254 relative to a plaque to commemorate the Centennial of Western
Star Lodge No. 2. recommend that the Grand Lodge of California supply such a plaque, the amount to be expended for this purpose to be
determined by the Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

I

WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
WILL H. FISCHER
RANDOLPH
WHITING
WILLIAM B. OGDEN
ROLLIE
MILLER
LESLIE E. WooD
. HENRY C. CLAUSEN
WM.E.H.KNIGHT
CHESTER R. MACPHEE

v.

w.

264

265

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Committee on Jurisprudence

They cannot withdraw from their Lodge or apply for membership or
advancement in another Lodge without a waiver of jurisdiction. The
question involved is whether or not the use of the words "Waiver of
Jurisdiction" in our Ordinances is confined to Lodges in California.

{

DISPENSATIONS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the year and
also his approval of resolutions relative to Life Memberships.
We find that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of our law, we,
therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand Master in that respect
be approved.
Adopted.
DECISIONS

Past Grand Master Hervey held (Digest Section 518) that an E. A.
or F. C. of a California Lodge cannot be granted a demit, and in the
event he desires to receive the remaining degrees and is unable to do so
in his Lodge, his Lodge may waive jurisdiction over him and permit him
to petition another Lodge for the remaining degrees.

I

Your Committee on Jurisprudence has carefully considered the
Decisions reported in the message of the Grand Master.
We recommend that Decisions numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 1O. 11,
12, as reported in the printed message of the Grand Master be approved.
Adopted.

J

The Grand Master held that a candidate that did not come forward
to take his Second and Third Degrees in Masonry stating the he was
"going away," was not entitled to the return of either his fees for the
second and third degrees or his contribution to the Masonic Home.
With this your Committee agrees.
The Grand Master further added that if the candidate moved from
the State, established a residence elsewhere, and asked for a waiver
of Jurisdiction to another Lodge, then Hornitos Lodge might properly
refund both the fees and contribution, if it granted the waiver.

be-

Section 173 of Ordinances sets forth the Rights of E. As. and F. Cs.
They are to sit in Lodge in which they received the degree or degrees
when open in a degree taken by them, and the right to advancement
therein after passing satisfactorily a strict examination in open Lodge.

It is the opinion of your Committee that the only way an E. A. or
F. C. of a California Lodge under our law can receive a degree or
degrees in a Lodge outside the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of
California is by courtesy. In every instance where "waiver of jurisdiction" is used tn our Ordinances regarding E. As. or F. Cs. it is confined to the Lodges in the State of California.
·
Your Committee therefore recommends that the ruling of the Grand
Master as to present return of fees and contributions be approved but
that his remarks regarding Waiver of Jurisdiction be. disapproved.
Adopted.
DECISION 6
The Grand Master states that in our Unity Lodge No. 368 a candidate received the E. A. degree. He then moved to and established a
domicile in Illinois and requested Courtesy Degrees to be conferred by a
Lodge in that State.

DECISION 5

When a profane petitions a Lodge in California he petitions for the
three degrees in Masonry. When he receives the E. A. degree in this
State he is subject to the Jurisdiction of his Lodge and can only receive
the F. C. and M. M. degrees by consent of his Lodge. When he
comes a M. M. in his Lodge he can take a demit or remain a member
of his Lodge as he chooses.

It is clear ·t hat in every case where the term is used the Lodge
retains jurisdiction over the E. A. or F. C. until he becomes a M. M.
This it would not be able to do if the term applied to Lodges not under
the control of" the Grand Lodge of California. It would have all the
effect of a demit if the term applied to Lodges outside the jurisdiction.

I
l

The Grand Master then states that pursuant to the Edict of Grand
Master Moore, dated January 11, 1947, California refused to make
the request. If the Grand Master means that he felt that the Edict issued
by Grand Master Moore governed the exercise of the discretion vested
in all Grand Masters in the matter of Courtesy Degrees, we think he
is in error. Grand Lodge held that the Edict issued by Grand Master
Moore was within his power to issue, but this ruling does not govern
the discretionary power of his successor. The discretion in such matter
is personal to each Grand Master. Anyway, the request was not made.
The issuance of a waiver of jurisdiction to enable a Chicago Lodge
to confer degrees on the candidate was error but, no use of such waiver
having been attempted, no harm was done. On Brother X's return to
California, none of the erroneous steps having caused any harm, the

266

267

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Master's ruling that the candidate could receive his remaining
degrees as soon ras he proved his proficiency, is correct.
Adopted.

Jurisprudence Committee erroneously omitted. To correct this error your
Committee now recommends:
First: That Section 151 of Ordinances be amended by adding thereto the following:
"It may cause a corporation to be organized for the purpose of purchasing, erecting or maintaining and holding title to real estate for a
Temple for Lodge uses and purposes and a Lodge or Lodges may hold
shares of stock in such corporation. Space in such Temple may be rented
for mercantile or other uses consistent with the purposes of the corporation so organized."
Second: Amend Section 155 by inserting between the words "not"
and "divide" in line one the words: "incorporate. It shall not".
Strike second sentence (line 2, 3 and 4).
As amended Section 151 will read:
"Sec. 151. A Lodge must retain the control of its own funds and
property. It may deposit its funds in a sound and reputable bank or
banks.
"It may cause a corporation to be organized for the purpose of purchasing, erecting or maintaining and holding title to real estate for a
Temple for Lodge uses and purposes and a Lodge or Lodges may hold
shares of stock in such corporation. Space in such Temple may be rented
for mercantile or other uses consistent with the purposes of the corporation so organized."
As amended Section 155 will read:
"Sec. 155. A Lodge shall not incorporate. It shall not divide its
funds or property with its members, even with those withdrawing to
form a new Lodge nor with the new Lodge thus formed.
"No money, except that dispensed by the charity committee and that
due the Grand Lodge, shall be drawn without its express consent appearing in the record, and no warrant shall be drawn therefor unless
there are sufficient funds to meet it, except in extreme cases of Masonic
necessity or charity. It shall not invest any of its funds in any manner
nor obligate itself in any way for the purpose of acquiring land or
building of a Masonic Temple or Hall without the approval of the
Committee on Lodge Financing."

INCORPORATION

The Grand Master recommends that our Ordinances be amended to
clearly show that a Lodge may use a Corporation for the ownership and
operation of its Temple. In this your Committee agrees.
The steps that our law has gone through in this respect may be of
interest to Grand Lodge.
On October 13, 1911, Grand Lodge adopted a new Constitution
which in addition to the theretofore existing Constitution incorporated
existing regulations and approved decisions. A new section numbered
87 on "Funds and Property" was included with the following explanatory note.
"The large number of decisions shows the necessity of a direct provision in the Constitution itself about Lodge Funds". Then follows citations of General Regulations and Decisions on the subject. One of the
Decisions cited is:
1878 p 420. Decisions by Grand Master G. M. Browne:
I am opposed to the incorporation of Lodges, believing the act to be
subversive of the principles of Masonic government and in opposition
to the prosperity of the Order. By it the State becomes paramount in
authority, annihilates and appellate jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge and
Grand Master, and subordinates the Masonic to the civil authorities. By
it a positive antagonism is arrayed against the self-management of the
internal affairs, and, in its ultimate, general, and permanent effects, the
Lodge would be less real, less stable, less solid. An independent corporation may be formed for the purpose of holding the title to real estate
or investing money, which would be controlled by the Courts, but no
Court ought to control the affairs of a Masonic Lodge.
Section 87 Funds and property-then adopted, in part, was as follows:
"A Lodge must retain the control of its own funds and property. It
cannot incorporate or intrust any of its funds or property to a corporation
formed within itself-except that its members may incorporate for the ·
purpose of erecting and maintaining a hall for its use, and incidentally
for rental purposes, and it may hold stock in such corporation".
The law thus stood until 1928 when ( Proc 1929 p 246) an amendment was recommended now covered by the last sentence of the present
section 155 of Ordinances. However, in amending section 87 of the
Constitution ( Proc 1928 p 284) to include the proposed amendment
the clause beginning "except that" was in the opinion of your present

r

REVISION OF SECTION 79
Section 79. The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California shall
be nine in number. The Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden
and Junior Grand Warden shall be Trustees ex-officio, the other six
Trustees shall be appointed by successive Grand Masters. The term
of appointive Trustees shall be three years from the close of the annual
communication of the Grand Lodge. Three appointive Trustees shall
be residents in the vicinity of the Home at Decoto and three shall be

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

residents in the vicinity of the Home at Covina. If a Trustee shall serve
three consecutive terms after 1948, he shall be ineligible for reappointment until the lapse of one year. They shall be the successors of the
Trustees originally appointed under the resolutions adopted by the
Grand Lodge in 1892 and subsequently thereto.
Incumbent appointive Trustees shall continue in office for their
unexpired terms respectively and the Grand Master shall appoint a
Trustee residing in the vicinity of the Home af Covina to a term ending
in 1949 and another such Trustee to a term ending in 1950. Their successors shall be appointed to terms of three years each.
Adopted.
DISPENSATION TO BLYTHE LODGE NO. 473
Inasmuch as the cost of material has not been reduced sufficiently
in the past year to enable Blythe Lodge No. 473, F. & A. M., of Blythe,
California, to proceed with the building of their Temple, it is necessary
that they be granted another year's extension on their dispensation to
meet in the Blythe High School Building. We earnestly pray that you
grant this request of Blythe Lodge No. 473.
This Committee recommends to the Grand Master that the dispensation referred to above be extended to the next annual Communication
of this Grand Lodge.
Adopted.
TIME FOR INSPECTORS REPORTS
Amendment to Section 53 of Ordinances: Section 8 requires each
Inspector to report the working condition of each Lodge in his District
to the Grand Lecturer on or before the first day of May of each year.
In discussing this section with the various Inspectors, they have
asked that additional time be provided to properly evaluate the conditions in their respective Districts, particularly in the case of current
Lodge Officers. I see no objection in complying with their request and
the following recommendation is made:
That paragraph 8 of Section 53 'be amended by striking out the
word "May" and substituting therefore the word "July".
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes, concurring, the
Committee on Jurisprudence recommended adoption and by a 5-6 vote
the report was adopted.

*

*

...

At 5: 10 p.m. Grand Lodge Called off until 9 o'clock Friday Morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

269

Friday, October 15, 1947

-l...

MORNING SESSION
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.
The invocation was given by the Grand Chaplain.
W. Edward L. Kellas, P. M. of Fresno Lodge No. 247, presided in
the East at the entrance of the Grand Lodge Officers.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday,
October 14 were read and approved.

Committee on Jurisprudence Report Continued

j

AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE //, SECTION 3
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends that the Constitution of Grand Lodge be amended by adding to Article II, Section 3, the
words "an Assistant Grand Treasurer" following the words "a Grand
Orator" and preceding the words "an Assistant Grand Secretary".
Adopted by a 5/6 vote.
AMENDING ORDINANCES BY ADDING SECTION 41A
We further recommend that the Ordinances of Grand Lodge be
amended by adding thereto a new section to be designated Section 41 a
and entitled Assistant Grand Treasurer, the section to read as follows:
The Grand Treasurer may with the approval of the Grand Master,
appoint an Assistant Grand Treasurer, for whose official acts he shall
be responsible, and who shall be considered an appointed officer of the
Grand Lodge and who shall perform such duties as may be prescribed
by the Grand Treasurer.
Adopted by a 5/6 vote.
AMENDMENT TO ORDINANCES SECTION 72
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends that the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge be amended by eliminating Section 72 thereof.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends that the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge be amended by striking from Section 70 line 4 the
words "on Accounts".
Adopted by a 5/6 vote.
AMENDMENT TO ORDINANCES-NEW SECTION 72
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends that the Ordinances
be amended by adding a new Sec~on to be known as Section 72 to read
as follows:
The Grand Master in consultation with the Grand Treasurer shall
designate a professional auditor whose duty it shall be to examine each
month such bills, claims and demands against the Grand Lodge as are

270

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

to 'be, or shall have been, paid by the Grand Secretary: to approve such
items as shall appear to be in order, and to call to the attention of the
Grand Master or Grand Treasurer such items as are not approved.
Adopted 'by a 5/6 vote.
AMENDMENT TO ORDINANCES-SECTION 44-l 7TH
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends that the Ordinances
of Grand Lodge be amended in Section 44, 17th, thereof by striking
therefrom the words "which shall be approved by the Committee on
Accounts" and adding in lieu thereof the words "which shall be passed
upon by the professional auditors as provided in Section 72".
Adopted 'by a 5/6 vote.
JoHN STEWART Ross
OSCAR LAWLER
GEORGE L. JONES
ROBERT B. GAYLORD
EARL WARREN
JOHN
SHENK
}OHN R. MOORE
HARVEY M. STULL
RoY M. ELAM

w.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

271

Report of Committee on Finance
The report of the Committee on Finance was presented by various
members of the committee as follows:
Relative to the Grand Secretary's Office and Grand Lodge Week
Activities Committee, by Robert G. Woll:
Relative to the Masonic Homes, the Memorial Temple, and the
Columbia Temple Restoration, by Ellsworth Barnett:
Relative to the Masonic Club Houses, Pay of Members, and the
George Washington Masonic National Memorial, by F. Wesley Davies:
Relative to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, ,by P. G. M.
Claude H. Morrison.
The remainder of the report was presented by the chairman P. G. M.
A'rthur S. Crites.
Each portion of the report was adopted separately, after which on
motion of the chairman, the report was adopted in its entirety, except
as per special action recorded at the end of the report.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance submits the following report:
AUDIT OP

ACCOUNTS

. Following precedent, your Committee has again employed Brother
Walter Parker to audit the accounting records of the Grand Treasurer,
Grand Secretary, Masonic Homes and the Endowment Fund.
The audit indicates that all receipts and disbursements have been
properly recorded and that all moneys and securities are on hand. A
copy of the report has been filed with the Grand Secretary. It will be
printed in the Annual Proceedings. The cost of the audit was, to the
Grand Lodge $250 and to the Masonic Homes $800.
PERMANENT MONTHLY AUDIT OP ACCOUNTS

The action of the Grand Lodge in voting to have the audit of the
Grand Secretary's and Grand Treasurer's accounts put on a monthly
basis has been referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Committee is heartily in favor of the procedure as voted upon.
The action came too late for the Committee to obtain any cost figures on
a monthly audit procedure, so no appropriation is suggested, but it is
the recommendation of your Committee that such expenditures, as will
be required to provide the monthly audit of the accounts of the Grand
Secretary and Grand Treasurer, be hereby authorized and that the
appropriation will be made at the next communication of Grand Lodge.

272

273

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OP GRAND TREASURER

allowed prove insufficient, a recommendation for an additional amount
will be presented to the next session of Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Finance recommends an appropriation of $7,000
to cover the traveling expenses of the Grand Master.

This Grand Lodge officer is again entitled to the commendation of
Grand Lodge for the able manner in which he is handling the manifold
financial transactions of Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes, and the
Endowment Fund. The auditor's report indicates that all records are in
good order and all moneys and securities properly on hand.
The report of the Grand Treasurer indicates the extent of the
financial transactions to which he must give attention. As will be noted
by the report, the business of Grand Lodge has become big business.
Last session of Grand Lodge appropriated $1,200 for the use of the
Grand Treasurer in caring for the expenses of his office. Of this amount
$1,080 was required. For the coming year we recommend an appropriation of $1,200 with the understanding that should the Grand Treasurer
find this sum not sufficient to properly care for the expenses of this
office for the year, whatever additional amount he may find is needed
is to be considered appropriated.
REPORT OP GRAND SECRETARY

Your Committee on Finance each year looks with interest to the
report of the Grand Secretary and is pleased to note that a steady growth
is being made by Masonry in California.
The number of lodges in operation, as well as the total number of
members, indicates a healthy condition in our fraternity.
The Auditor's report indicates that all monies have been properly·
accounted for and apparently the finances and records of this office are
in good condition.
TRAVELING EXPENSES OP GRAND MASTER

This Committee again wishes to follow previously established precedent of encouraging the Grand Master to travel as extensively as he
finds it expedient to so do and expresses the thought that the visitations
of the Grand Master to all parts of the Jurisdiction are of distinctive
advantage to the Craft. The growth of the Jurisdiction makes additional
drafts upon the time of the Grand Master, both in administering the
affairs of Grand Lodge, as well as for visitations. Due to this growth
and these demands, it is difficult to determine what the requirements for
his expenses may be.
Your Committee has discussed with both the outgoing and the incoming Grand Masters the needs for the coming year. Basing its judgment upon these discussions, it is budgeting $7,000 for the purpose of
covering the Grand Master's expenses, with the understanding, however, that it is to be left to his good judgment to decide how much, if
any, additional he may consider necessary to expend in properly performing the duties of his office and that should the amount which is being

RETURN OP FUNDS BY THE MOST WORSHIPFUL CHESTER H. WARLOW

...l

It is the wish of your Committee on Finance to express to the Most
Worshipful Grand Master the appreciation of Grand Lodge for the
return to its treasury, out of the appropriation made to cover the necessary expenses of his office, the sum of $3,000. The Annual Message of
the Grand Master indicates some of the traveling which he has done
and the manifold duties performed. To have devoted the year to
Masonry as he has and to have been able to return $3,000 of the amount
allowed for expenses indicates the care exercised in the spending of
Grand Lodge funds. The Grand Master is also to be commended for
having maintained a careful record of expenditures. The Annual
Message of the Grand Master mentions the trip which he took to Cuba,
Yucatan, Guatemala and Mexico. This trip had in it good will value
for the Jurisdiction of California and yet no part of the expenses of this
trip was paid for from Grand Lodge funds.
GRAND MASTER'S STENOGRAPHIC SERVICE

For a number of years an allowance for stenographic services for
the Grand Master has been made. In order that the Grand Master may
properly perform the duties of his office, it is essential that he should
have the proper stenographic help. It is also entirely proper that Grand
Lodge should pay for such services.
For the year just closed the Grand Master was allowed $2,000 for
this purpose. It was found necessary to expend the entire amount.
In a discussion with the incoming Grand Master as to this needs for
an allowance for stenographic service during the coming year, it appears
probable that his requirements will be less than was required for the
year just closing and that the sum of $1,500 will suffice.
Your Committee therefore recommends an appropriation of $1,500
to care for stenographic help for the Grand Master during the coming
year.
PORTRAIT OP GRAND MASTER

It has been a long established policy of Grand Lodge to request each
retiring Grand Master to have his portrait painted so that it may be
included in the gallery of Past Grand Masters' portraits. We are sure
this Grand Lodge will want this pleasing custom continued.
Last year there was appropriated $500 for the purpose of having
painted the portrait of our then retiring Grand Master. This committee
has come to the conclusion that a satisfactory portrait cannot be had for

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

this amount and that $650.00 is as little as can be paid to secure a proper
likeness.
Your Committee on Finance therefore recommends that our retiring
Grand Master, the Most Worshipful Chester H. Warlow, have his
portrait painted and present the bill therefor, in an amount not to exceed
$650.00 to the Grand Secretary, who is authorized to pay the same and
when the portrait is completed it is to be hung in the gallery of portraits of Past Grand Masters.

likeness. Both the price and the quality of the portrait have long been
a problem of discussion by the members of your Committee on Finance.
It will also be noticed that the work of Brother Ferdinand Earle has
been more uniformly satisfactory. This has resulted in a discussion with
Brother Earle and the quoting of an established price, which is the
amount now being appropriated.
It is the recommendation of this Committee that hereafter those
having their portraits painted should make arrangements with Brother
Earle for the painting.

PORTRAIT OF INCOMING GRAND MASTER

Your Committee on Finance is in accord with the recommendation
made by the Grand Master that, instead of awaiting the close of the
year, the Grand Master have his portrait painted during his year as
Grand Master and therefore requests that the Most Worshipful Brother
installed as Grand Master at the close of this session have his portrait
painted and present the bill therefor, in an amount not to exceed $650.00
to the Grand Secretary, who is authorized to pay the same and when
the portrait is completed it is to be hung in the galfery of portraits of
Past Grand Masters.

TRAVELING EXPENSES OP GRAND LECTURER AND ASSISTANTS

The regulations of Grand Lodge provide that the expenses of the
Grand Lecturer and his assistants, incurred in traveling and in their
efforts to maintain the excellence of the esoteric work of the Order, shall
be reimbursed to them. Last Grand Lodge appropriated $2.500 to cover
these expenses. Of this amount $2458.75 was expended.
The Grand Lecturer estimates that for this purpose for the coming
year $3,500 will be needed. Your Committee on Finance recommends
the appropiation of this sum.

PORTRAITS OF PRECEDING GRAND MASTERS

Each year this Committee has continued the appropriation for the
portraits of those past Grand Masters which have not been heretofore
included in the gallery.
During the year there have been added to the gallery portraits of
Past Grand Masters Claude H. Morrison, Frank M. Smith and John
R. Moore. Portraits of the following Past Grand Masters are still missing: Earl Warren, Gilbert C. DeForest and Arthur W. Brouillet.
In the opinion of this Committee there are three portraits in the
gallery of living Past Grand Masters that are not of sufficient likeness
and new portraits should be painted.
Your Committee on Finance therefore requests that these six Most
Worshipful Brothers have their portraits painted, bill for each to be in
an amount not to exceed $650.00 and when presented to the Grand Secretary to be paid by him and the portraits to be included in the gallery of
Past Grand Masters.
RECOMMENDATION OF BROTHER FERDINAND EARLE AS THE PAINTER
FOR THE PORTRAITS OF PAST GRAND MASTERS

It will probably be noted that the amount being allowed this year
for the painting of portraits has been increased from $500 to $650. For
many years the amount was $150. In 1936 it was raised to $250, in 1944
to $300 and in 1947 to $500. This amount allowed has frequently resulted in the party having the portrait painted finding it necessary to
pay an additional amount out of his own pocket. It has also too often
resulted in portraits being painted that have not been of a satisfactory

275

REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES OP INSPECTORS

-

Grand Lodge regulations provide that the expenses of the Inspectors
incurred in visiting the lodges under their Jurisdiction and under such
regulations as may be set up by the Grand Lecturer, shall be returned to
them out of the funds of Grand Lodge.
Attention is again called to the outstanding work which is being
performed by these Masonic servants and the great amount of time
and expense they are out, and particularly to the small amount of expense which is asked for. This past year the same record has been made
by this excellent corps of officers. If the full amount which, under Grand
Lodge regulations is coming to these Brothers for their outstanding
Masonic service, was asked for, it would have cost Grand Lodge approximately $8,000, instead of $3355.34, the amount which has actually been
paid out. A year ago the appropriation made by Grand Lodge to take
care of these expenses was $3,000.
In discussing with the Grand Lecturer the amount which he considers should be set up to cover the traveling expenses of the Inspectors,
he has suggested ·a n allowance for this purpose for the coming year
of $3,500.
Your Committee on Finance concurs in this recommendation of the
Grand Lecturer and, therefore, recommends the appropriation of $3,500
for this purpose, with the understanding that should requests for return
of expenses be made by the lnspectos, in accordance with the regulations established by the Grand Lecturer, in excess of this amount. the
full amount of such requests are to be paid, regardless of the amount
which is being appropriated for that purpose.

276

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
REIMBURSEMENT OP BOARDS OP RELIEF

The Board of Control recommends reimbursements to the Boards of
Relief. as follows:
Sacramento Board of RelieL............................................................$ 20.00
San Francisco Board of Relief.......................................................... 125.00
Total ........................................................~...................................$145.00
This Committee recommends the appropriation of the above amount
and that it be paid to the two Boards of Relief as indicated.
MASONIC

EMPLOYMENT SERVICE

The Board of Control has recommended donations to the various
Employment Services, as follows:
East Bay ···-·-··············-·-·········-··············································$ 1,500.00
Fresno ..........................................................................................
192.00
Long Beach ···········--··································································· 1,902.00
Los Angeles .................................................................................. 6,000.00
Sacramento ..................................................................................
750.00
San Diego .................................................................................... 1,851.00
San Francisco .............................................................................. 1.500.00
Total ···-··············-·-····-·········-~---·········································$13,695.00
Your Committee on Finance is in accord with the requests made by
the Board of Control and recommends that an appropriation of $13,-.
695.00 be made and donated to the various Employment Services as listed
above, to be paid to said Services in two semi-annual installments.
BOARD OP

CONTROL

The members of the Board of Control find it necessary to be to some
expense in attending to their duties in supervising the various Boards
of Relief and Masonic Employment Services throughout the Jurisdiction.
There was appropriated for this purpose last year $1,500. The Board
found it necessary to expend $2,016.48.
Your Committee on Finance recommends an appropriation of $1,500
to cover the expenses found necessary by the Board of Control in performing its various Masonic duties, and approved the appropriation
already made of $516.48, to cover the expenditures made by the Committee for the year just closed above the appropriation made last year for
that purpose.
MASONIC HOMES

Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the report of the Board
of Trustees of the Masonic Homes, as well as the Auditor's report on the
operations of the Homes for the year ending July 31, 1948. The Trustees

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

277

are again to be commended for their stewardship of these two fine institutions.
As pointed out in the report of the Board of Trustees, the finances
of the Homes, which have been· in such excellent condition in the past
several years, have now shrunk to where it is again necessary to ask the
Lodges for assistance in supporting the Homes.
Since 1945, when the first 50c per capita tax for the support of the
Homes was dropped, the gross income of the Homes has been reduced
from over $600,000 to $417,000, while operating expenses have continually increased and have gone from $245,000 in 1945 to $445,000 in the
year just past, leaving an operating deficit of $27,000 for the year.
The Trustees recommend that there be a per capita levy of 25c for
the operation of the Homes and an additional 25c for the Building Fund
for the year beginning August 1, 1949, and your Committee on Finance
concurs in that recommendation.
Your Committee therefore offers the following Resolution and moves
its adoption:
Resolved: That a per capita of 25c be levied for the operations of the
Masonic Homes; and that an additional per capita of 25c be levied for
the Building Fund of the Masonic Homes.
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

The sixteenth report of this Board is as usual very interesting. It
indicates that contributions through the Lodges increased the Endowment Fund by $187,000 and that bequests increased it by over $200,000,
a total increase of approximately $400,000, making a total of $3,300,000
at the close of the fiscal year.
The progress that has been made during the sixteen years of existence of the Board is indeed remarkable. An increase of $2,750,000 in the
Endowment Fund, with an expenditure through the appropriation of
Grand Lodge Fund of about $100,000, is a tribute to the enthusiasm.
hard work and intelligent planning of those who have served as members
of the Board and particularly of those who have served as chairmen.
The graphs in the report and which were shown on slides at the
presentation of the report are both revealing and realistic. While they
show remarkable progress they indicate also, that the expenses of the
Homes are increasing at a far greater rate than the increase of income
from the greatly accelerated Endowment Fund and that what may have
seemed to be a very satisfactory goal for an Endowment Fund ten years
ago is now entirely out of proportion.
We feel, therefore, that interest and enthusiasm in this work must
not lag and that the Endowment Board must be given every encouragement by the Grand Lodge.
At the 1947 Communication of Grand Lodge, $8,000 was appropriated for the use of the Endowment Board, of which approximately

278

279

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$6,000 was used, the remaining $2.000 reverting to the general funds of
Grand Lodge. The Board would like to have $8,000 appropriated again
this year and your Committee on Finance is in accordance with this
request. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend
its adoption:
Resolved: That the sum of $8.000 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge to be set aside for the use of its Masonic Homes Endowment Board during the current fiscal year.

The Committee on Finance agrees that this work is necessary, but
feels that because of so many financial demands made upon Grand
Lodge funds at this time it would be advisable to amortize this extraordinary expenditure over a period of time.
It is therefore our recommendation that the Trustees use at least
$15,000 of its own reserve funds to help pay the cost of such repairs
and replacements. This Committee recommends further-that in addition to the amount of $3,884.43 regularly included in its budget, the
$15,000 to be withdrawn as above, be restored to the reserve funds by
Grand Lodge in five equal annual payments of $3,000 each, commencing with the next fiscal year.
The Committee on Finance therefore offers the following resolution
and recommends its adoption:
Resolved: That Grand Lodge appropriate the sum of $15,490.00 for
the Masonic Clubhouse at Los Angeles, and the sum of $34,081.20 for
the Masonic Clubhouse at Berkeley, such appropriation to be used in
accordance with the recommendation set forth above.

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA CLUBHOUSES

The Committee on Finance has examined the report of the Trustees
of the Masonic Clubhouses and have reviewed the Auditor's reports
in connection therewith.
This committee has given particular attention to the financial requests of the Trustees and has had several discussions with Trustee
representatives in connection therewith, and it is now pleased to make
the following recommendations:
Los Angeles-That the sum of $15,490 be allowed the Los Angeles
Clubhouse to be used for the following purposes:
For operating expenses-------------------------------------- $12,240.00
For addition to the Depreciation Fund____________
1,250.00
For the purchase of a new exhaust fan, new
adding machine, additional water heater, a
dish washing machine and for fireproofing
2,000.00
stage draperies ----------------------------------------------

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

The annual observance of Public Schools Week has become a fixed
activity of the Grand Lodge of California. It has proven to be an
activity which is causing favorable comment by many of the Masonic
Jurisdictions throughout the world.
The observance was recommended by Past Grand Master Charles
Albert Adams while Grand Master. This Most Worshipful Brother
has headed the activities of the committee during all the years since. It
has been due to his great interest in the public schools and his forceful
handling of the committee that the observance has become such an outstanding activity.
Each year the chairman finds it necessary to be to some expense in
caring for the various duties of the committee. Last year there was
appropriated, at the request of the Chairman, $1,250. The expenses of
the Committee amounted to $745.36.
The Chairman this year estimates that there will be needed in carrying on the activities of the Committee the sum of $1,250.00. Your Committee on Finance approves the request and recommends the appropriation.

Total..----···----------··---·------------------------------------- $15. 490. 00
This Committee recommends to the Board of Trustees that the
estimated cost of $1,450.00 for replacing certain other equipment be
paid for out of its reserve funds. which have already been created for
this purpose.
Berkeley-That the sum of $34,081.20 be appropriated for the
Clubhouse at Berkeley and that this sum be allocated as follows:
For regular operating expenses------------------------ $10, 196. 77
For addition to the reserve fund for depreciation and replacement______________________________________
3,884.43
For proposed building alterations and additions to equipment.. -----------------------------------.... --- 20,000.00

COMMITTEE ON CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE

This activity of Grand Lodge is also becoming increasingly important. The committee is doing excellent work and to perform its
duties they find it necessary to incur some expense. Last year there was
appropriated for this purpose $500, of which amount $155.46 was used.
Your Committee on Finance is budgeting for the use of this committee this year the sum of $500, it being understood, however, that

$34,081.20
At the suggestion of the Grand Master, the Board of Trustees at
Berkeley obtained an estimate from a reputable architect of the cost
of restoring certain portions of the building and replacing certain pieces
of equipment. This estimate amounted to approximately $35,000.

[

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

whatever amount the committee expends, with the approval and under
the direction of the Grand Master, is to be audited in the usual manner
and paid out of the funds of Grand Lodge.

Your Committee on Finance recommends the appropriation of that
amount. It is also recommended that the Grand Secretary have sufficient
copies printed for distribution to the separate Lodges to take care of
their requests.

281

GRAND LODGE ACTIVITIES WEEK

The work of the Activities Committee, under the able guidance of
Andrew Burke, has again very effectually accomplished the purpose for
which it is organized. The annual get-together dinner, attended by 1121
members of Grand Lodge, the entertainment of Grand Lodge Officers,
Distinguished Guests, their Ladies and Grand Lodge Members, as. well
as the annual pilgrimage to the Decoto Home, were all accomplished
with a great deal of graciousness and efficiency.
Your Committee on Finance recommends that the sum of $5,000 be
appropriated for the purpose of paying the ex~enses co~tr_a~ted for. by
this committee in carrying out the aforementioned activities, subiect
to various items being audited in the usual manner.
The Committee on Grand Lodge Activities Week is of the opinion
that the amount of $5,000 will be sufficient to take care of the various
activities one year hence. No appropriation is being recommended at
this time to cover these expenses, as the entire expenditure occurs
after the close of the regular Grand Lodge year, July 31, 1949. However, it is understood that these expenses are to be incurred and that
some of them will have to be paid prior to the Annual Communication
of Grand Lodge. Such expenses are hereby authorized and will be
included in the appropriations made at the next session of Grand Lodge.
COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE

Special acclaim should be given this committee who, under the able
chairmanship of Brother James K. Fisk, has compiled a report of outstanding events in Freemasonry, both domestic and foreign, that are
truly enlightening and educational. A study of this report will at once
show the reader that an exhaustive amount of research has been done
by the committee to bring you the facts therein contained.
The Chairman of the committee wishes it known that the work of
compiling this material was apportioned among the members of the
committee so that no phase would he overlooked. This resulted in only
$35.00 of the appropriation of $250.00 allotted for the purpose being
used.
It is recommended that every member of the Craft avail himself of
the opportunity of perusing this work. He will find it not only interesting but also highly educational. It is further recommended that the
Grand Secretary notify each Lodge that copies of this excellent book
are available to the members at their request.
The Chairman of the committee suggests an appropriation of $250.00
for the use of the committee for the coming year.

MASONIC HISTORY

J.

There has been presented to Grand Lodge the report of this committee. In it has been set forth the accomplishments to date, the plans for
the future and the need for further funds to finish the editing for publication of the material already gathered.
Your Committee on Finance has had a discussion with the Chairman of the History Committee, Past Grand Master Leon 0. Whitsell,
and has gone over with him his plans for the coming year, as well as
having checked with him the budget of financial needs which has been
submitted.
It is obvious that if the Craft is to have the benefit of the work of
the History Committee to date, the material so far collected must be
edited for publication and that this editing should not be longer delayed.
Last year there was appropriated for the use of the committee
$11,000. There was expended by the committee during the year
$6,308.42.
The Chairman of this committee has submitted a budget showing
that he will need, to complete the editing, the amount of $6,720. In
addition to this there has already been expended since the commencement of this Grand Lodge year the sum of $2,099.72.

I

Your Committee on Finance recommends an appropriation of $8,819.72 for the use of the Committee on Masonic History for the coming
year.
MASONIC INFORMATION

Grand Lodge has already heard the report of the Committee on
Masonic Information and is acquainted with the accomplishments of
the Committee for the past year and its plans for the coming year, as
well as its financial needs to carry out its plans.
Your Committee on Finance has had a full discussion with Worshipful Brother Henry W. Coil, Chairman of the Committee, about the
plans of the Committee for the future and its financial needs. This
Committee believes the Committee on Masonic Information should be
afforded the. opportunity to completely put into operation its plans for
informing the Initiate and therefore is entitled to the appropriation
asked for.
Last year there was appropriated for the use of this Committee
$'1,500. The amount was overspent by $165.12.
The Chairman of the Committee requests an appropriation of $5,500

282

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

for the purpose of publishing two additional bulletins and caring for
incidental expenses of the Committee.
This Committee approves the plan for the publication of the two
proposed pamphlets and therefore recommmends the appropriation
asked for of $5,500. It also approves the overpayment of $165.12.

SOTOYOME LODGE NO 123

(Situate at Healdsburg)
This Lodge is still in need of assistance from Grand Lodge. The
problem confronting this Lodge over the purchase of its temple still
remains, as previously reported by this Committee.
Mrs. Bush, the surviving spouse, is still alive although she is ap~
proaching ninety years of age. In order for the Lodge to eventually
secure title to its temple building it is still necessary to pay the surviving
spouse $150 monthly.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SOCIAL SECURITY AND UNEMPLOYMENT TAX

This Committee is still in existence and alert to the tax problems
of Grand Lodge.
They spent no money last year and make no request for an allowance
this year.

Up to October first of this year, Grand Lodge has advanced $9,600.
The Lodge has repaid $6,200, leaving a balance due Grand Lodge of
$3,400. Your Committee on Finance offers the following resolution
and recommends its adoption :

COMMITTEE ON DE MOLA Y

This Committee is continuing its activities for the coming year.
There was appropriated for the use of the committee for the year
just closed $500. Of this amount there was expended $384.22.
•
To cover its expenses for the coming year the Committee has re~
quested an allowance of $750.00.
Your Committee on Finance concurs and recommends the appro~
priation of that amount.

I

LODGE FINANCING COMMITTEE

This is a hard working committee and one that is doing a work of
great benefit to the Lodges. It is deserving of much praise. The report
of the Committee displays a great amount of work done, but does not
commence to show the tremendous amount of detail required and the
careful study and sound judgment that must constantly be exercised.
The Chairman of the Committee, the Worshipful Walter S. Berger,
finds it necessary to incur some expense in performing the various
duties of the Committee. A't the last Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge there was appropriated for the use of this Committee $600. It
was found necessary to expend $613.94.
·
The Chairman of the Committee requests an allowance for this year
of $600.00. Your Committee on Finance is in agreement with the re~
quest and recommends the appropriation of this sum be made.
COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS

This Committee has been performing additional responsibilities in
making investigations of all situations surrounding the proposed new
Lodges, before issuance of Dispensations. These investigations have
required the members of the Committee to be to some expense.
The Committee has requested an appropriation for its purpose for
the coming year of $1,000.00.
Your Committee on Finance recommends the appropriation of this
amount.

283

1

Resolved: That there be paid from the funds of Grand Lodge
monthly to Sotoyome Lodge Ne. 123, a sum not to exceed $150, during
the lifetime of Mrs. Bush, with the understanding that such sum shall
be used to fulfill its obligation to Mrs. Bush and that all sums advanced,
including the amount heretofore paid, shall be considered as a loan to
Sotoyome Lodge and be repaid by such Lodge in a sum of not less than
$100 per month, until the full amount advanced shall have been repaid,
together with interest thereon at the rate of three per cent per annum.
GRAVEL RANGE LODGE NO. 59

( Situate at Camptonville)
There was appropriated at the last annual session of Grand Lodge,
for the purpose of assisting the above Lodge in rebuilding its temple
which had been destroyed by fire, the sum of $13,000. Of this amount
the Lodge found it necessary to utilize $12,578.
The new temple has been completed and is now occupied by the
Lodge.
It was not determined by your Committee on Finance at the time
the appropriation was made whether this amount was to be regarded
as an advance to said Lodge, or an outright gift. The amount is now
carried on the records of Grand Lodge as "owing from Gravel Range
Lodge."
This Commitfee has previously taken the position, which it now
renews, that all Lodges should stand on their own basis and pay any
advances of this character as far as their financial means will permit.
At this time your Committee concludes it is too early to determine what
amount of the above advance should be eventually returned by Gravel
Range Lodge. It therefore recommends the continuance of the charge
as now carried, as an advance to this Lodge.

284

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GEORGETOWN LODGE NO. 25

It is also to be borne in mind that the second set of regalia, which
is the set used when it is necessary to ship regalia to outside communities for the purpose of cornerstone laying and other Grand Lodge ceremonies, is in an unsatisfactory condition. This would mean that should
a new set be purchased the present set of official regalia could be used
for this latter purpose.
If a new set is purchased it should be available for the Centennial
Celebration and to be available at that time it will be necessary to place
the order now, The regalia houses advise that they cannot commence
to guarantee a satisfactory job of this character much under two years.
Should it be found necessary to order a new set, it will be required to
make the appropriation at this time, as a firm commitment will have to
be made if the regalia is ordered.
Discussions have been held with various regalia houses and the
best price quoted, which -contains assurances of a satisfactory quality, is
$140.00 per set. As 26 sets are necessary it means an appropriation
of $3,640.
This Committee is therefore recommending an appropriation of the
above amount, it being understood that the appropriation is only to be
used in case it is found that the present regalia cannot be properly
cleaned and reconditioned and also with the recommendation that the
appropriation shall continue in effect over the next Grand Lodge period.

(Situated at Georgetown)
and
NORTHEAST LODGE NO. 255
(Situate at Fort Bidwell)
The report of the Grand Master on the need of these two Lodges
for financial help, due to loss of their temples by fire, was referred
jointly to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the
Committee on Finance.
A conference between the two committees has been held.
Your Committee on Finance is in accord with the report made by
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Since the above portion of the report of the Finance Committee had
been prepared, the attention of the Committee has been called to the
action of Grand Lodge on the report made on the above subject by the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
It is therefore obvious to this Committee that unless some action is
taken by Grand Lodge at this session, these two Lodges will be compelled to forego any action on the construction of new temples and
will thereby be without places of meeting until the next session of
Grand Lodge.
It is the considered opinion of this Committee that some method of
relief should be determined upon. It therefore recommends that it be
left to the incoming Grand Master, to the Chairman of the Committee
on Finance and the Chairman of the Committee on Lodge Financing,
to determine the mount of assistance which shall be rendered to each
of these two distressed Lodges, it being understood that the final disposition, that is, whether it is to be an advance or an outright gift shall
in each case be left to the determination of the Finance Committee at
the next session of Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Finance recommends whatever amounts may
be determined upon by the above committees, for the assistance to
Georgetown Lodge No. 25 and Northeast Lodge No. 266, be appropriated.
GRAND LODGE REGALIA

Considerable discussion has been had with this Committee and by
this Committee with others, about the purchasing of a complete new
set of official regalia for Grand Lodge Officers.
Prices have been obtained for cleaning and reconditioning the present set, however, no satisfactory assurances have been given as to what
condition the regalia will be in after it is cleaned and reconditioned.
Efforts will be made to determine whether such cleaning and reconditioning can be done satisfactorily.

I

"·

285

ADVANCES FOR OTHER JURISDICTIONS

In the report of this Committee a year ago there was shown due this
Grand Lodge from the Masonic Jurisdictions outside the United States
advances as follows:
Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of Scotland.......... $1,000.00
This item represents an advance made by the Board of Relief of
San Francisco in 1942 for the benefit of the wife of William Johnstone,
a member of Lodge St. John Selkirk No. 32-Scotland. The amount
was paid out by the Board of Relief on authorization of the Grand
Lodge of Scotland, the sum to repay having been deposited with them.
Due to restrictions placed by the British Government on the sending
of money out of the Empire, the Grand Lodge of Scotland has not been
able to remit the amount to this Grand Lodge. Recent requests have
been made and denied. It is obviously uncertain, due to economic conditions there, as to when this sum will be received.
Economic conditions in the British Isles have placed on Masonry
there and particularly on relief needs a very great strain. Both Brother
Johnstone, who made this deposit and the Grand Lodge of Scotland,
would welcome the contribution of the amount to their charitable needs.
It is, therefore, the recommendation of your Committee on Finance
that this $1,000 be contributed to the Scottish Masonic Benevolence
Centenary Fund.

286

287

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GENERAL OFFICERS OF GRAND LODGE

This Committee is in accord with the recommendation of the Special
Committee, but repeats its qualification of last year in that the payment
of these accumulated funds should be left to the discretion of a committee, composed of the Grand Master, Grand Treasurer and the Chairman of the Finance Committee. It therefore presents the following
resolution:

Due to the present uncertainty on the building of a M~morial
Temple, it seems unwise to do very much in the way of remodelling the
present offices of Grand Lodge. It is probable, however, that some ~e­
modelling will be required before the determination on the Memorial
Temple.
Your Committee on Finance is therefore appropriating $5,000 at
this time for whatever remodelling may be found necessary.
OFFICE EQUIPMENT

Th~re was appropriated at the last annual communication $1,500
for the purpose of equipping the offices of Grand Lodge with additional
furniture. The amount expended for this purpose during the year was
$1,246.39.
The Grand Secretary estimates a need of $1,000 for this purpose for
the coming year. Your Committee on Finance therefore recommends
that $1,000 be appropriated to cover the requirements of the offices of
Grand Lodge for the coming year.

Resolved: That a per capita of fifteen cents ( 15c) be levied and
the proceeds therefrom be added to the fund known as the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Fund, and that said fund,
or any portion thereof, be remitted to said Memorial Association upon
the authority of a committee composed of the Grand Master, Grand
Treasurer and the Chairman of the Finance Committee, or as authorized
at some future communication of Grand Lodge.
Be It Further Resolved: That the sum of $1,897.06 be appropriated
to pay the expenses of the Special Committee on George Washington
Masonic National Memorial in the amount of $897.06 incurred last
year and $1,000.00 to defray the expenses of this Committee for the
current fiscal year.
MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS

The Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report, which
indicates the amount required to pay the traveling expenses of officers
and members attending this session of Grand Lodge amounts to $22,850.00.
This is an increase of $4,100, or approximately 22% over last year's
appropriation.
This increase having been satisfactorily explained, this Committee
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved: That the sum of $22,850.00 be appropriated to pay the
traveling expenses of officers and members attending the session of
Grand Lodge.
UNPAID GRAND LODGE DUES

It is again pleasing to report that the returns of all Lodges are in
and in proper shape and that all Lodges of this Jurisdiction have been
able to settle in full their dues to this Grand Body.
GEORGE WASHINGTON MASONIC NATIONAL MEMORIAL

The Special Committee on the George Washington Masonic National Memorial recommends that a levy of fifteen cents ( 15c) per
capita be made again this year and that the proceeds resulting therefrom, together with all accumulated funds of this nature on hand as at
January 15, 1949, be paid to the George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association on or before F~bruary 22, 1949.

Your Committee on Finance has revised that portion of the Grand
Master's Address, referring to the creation of a Masonic Memorial
Temple to house Grand Lodge; and also the report of the Memorial
Building Committee, which has been investigating the various ramifications concerning the erection of such a temple.
The Memorial Building Committee states in its report it has not
been able to determine sufficient facts to make a recommendation to
Grand Lodge at this time concerning the erection of a Masonic Memorial Temple, and requests that the Committee be continued in order
to complete its studies and asks for sufficient funds for the purpose.
It is recognized that in order to complete its report the Memorial
Building Committee will have to make certain expenditures, such as
obtaining options on land, procuring preliminary plans and cost estimates on the building, etc. The amount of these expenditures is necessarily unknown and cannot, therefore, be accurately budgeted. There
is now on hand in Grand Lodge the sum of $158,507.44 transferred from
the War Relief Fund at the last Communication. It is the recommendation of your Committee on Finance that this reserve be made available
to the Memorial Building Committee for the purpose of completing its
report to Grand Lodge on the feasibility of the erection of a Masonic
Memorial Temple, expenditures from which shall be made upon approval
of a committee, consisting of the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand
Master and Chairman of Committee on Finance.
The Committee on Finance is not now in approval or disapproval of

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the erection of a Masonic Memorial Temple and cannot be until full
facts are available on the subject. It is hoped that with the funds thus
made available to the Committee, a full and complete report can be
rendered to Grand Lodge at its next Communication, so that final
determination may then be made as to whether a Masonic Memorial
Temple is to be, or not to be erected.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
R.esolved: That there be transferred from Grand Lodge reserves to
a special fund to be made available to the Memorial Building Committee
the sum of $158,507.44, expenditures from which shall be made for the
purpose of completing its report to Grand Lodge on the feasibility of
the erection of a Masonic Memorial Temple, such expenditures to be
made upon approval of a committee consisting of the Grand Master,
Deputy Grand Master and the ·Chairman of Finance.
This report is concurred in by the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.

years and the revenues have been keeping pace with the increase, yet
it is apparent that we have about reached the peak in that respect, and
that retrenchments will have to be made from here on, in order to avoid
financial difficulties for Grand Lodge in the future.
The expenditure of $38,204 for the res~oration of the Temple at
Columbia, although laudable in its purpose, seems to your Committee
on Finance to be in the nature of a luxury, and one in which retrenchment should properly be made.
Your Committee on Finance therefore recommends that no appropriation be made for the restoration of the Temple at Columbia.
PLAQUE FOR WESTERN STAR LODGE NO. 2
There has been referred to your Committee on Finance the report
of the Committee on Policy and General purposes, on the resolution
presented by Alfreci F. Ross, Past Master of Reading Lodge No. 254,
proposing that Grand Lodge present to Western Star Lodge No. 2 a
congratulatory plaque in commemoration of its Centennial observance
this year. The resolution has the approval of the Policy Committee.
While your Committee on Finance has the very highest respect
for the conclusions of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
and is genuinely embarrassed that it cannot concur in this recommendation, and yet, it must be recognized that eventually there will be 600
Lodges eligible for memorials from Grand Lodge of some character and
that by granting this request it is establishing a precedent and probably
starting a parade for applications to Grand Lodge for plaques or memorials of some character.
This Committee is refusing to recommend an appropriation for the
building of the Columbia Memorial Temple. While this application
means a much smaller amount, yet this Committee views it that the two
applications are of a memorial character.
Your Committee on Finance therefore is constrained to disapprove
the appropriation of the necessary amount.

COLUMBIA TEMPLE RESTORATION

Your Committee on Finance has thoughtfully and thoroughly considered the report of the Columbia Temple Restoration Committee, as
referred to it by Grand Lodge Tuesday.
It will be recalled that at the last Communication of Gran-0 Lodge
your Committee on Finance suggested that the project was prematurely
presented and recommended that the Columbia Temple Restoration
Committee obtain all the information necessary to present a complete
picture to Grand Lodge at this Communication, covering plans and
specifications. costs, the possibility of State assistance in building and
maintaining the Temple, etc. This information the Committee has thoroughly and scrupulously secured. The members of the Committee are to
be commended for their thoroughness and Grand Lodge is indebted to
them for their fine work.
The cost of restoration of the Temple is estimated at $37,103 for
the reconstruction of the building and $1101 for the furnishings and
equipment, which would have to be bought, the remainder having been .
donated by Lodges throughout the Jurisdiction, and the Committee
requests an appropriation of that amount.
Without doubting that the restoration of the Columbia Temple
would provide a fine historical monument to Masonry in the old Mother
Lode country. there is considerable <loubt in the minds of your Committee on Finance as to the propriety of reconstructing this Temple,
both by reason of its being monumental only, there being no active
Lodge there to use it and also, in considering where this road may lead
us once we have elected to reconstruct Masonic Temples in historic
places, as monuments to the Craft.
Grand Lodge expenses have been rising rather rapidly over the

289

CENTENNIAL ARRANGEMENTS

.l

The Committee on Centennial Arrangements is to be congratulated
on the report which it has prepared. While the report must, of necessity,
be fragmentary in its details it presents the broad outline of a plan
which, if perfected, should give us a Centennial celebration which will
be in keeping with the dignity and the importance of this Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Finance is in sympathy with and recommends
the adoption of the plan as thus far outlined by the Centennial Arrangements Committee. In doing so it recognizes the ability, sincerity and
business acumen of the brothers now comprising the Committee and
feels certain that should any changes or replacements be made by succeeding Grand Masters, the members of this Grand Lodge may still

290

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

have the utmost confidence that its funds which may be entrusted to
the Committee will be expended with care and with the most satisfactory
results. We are entering into a new undertaking and while $145,000
may seem to be a very large sum to be spent on a celebration, yet as
the Committee truly points out we have no way of knowing what conditions may prevail two years from now. It is better to have ample
funds on hand and not spend them, than to fail to provide an adequate
celebration through lack of necessary funds.
Your Committee on Finance, therefore, presents the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved: First, that a per capita tax of 25c be fixed for the fiscal
year ending July 31, 1949, the proceeds of which shall be set aside in
the accounts of Grand Lodge to be added to the Centennial Fund to
cover the costs of the Centennial Celebration in 1950.
Second, tha t to provide for continuous service of the Centennial Arrangements Committee the members be appointed, for a period of three
years.
Third, that the Committee be authorized to make contracts and
commitments for such necessary expenditures, including salaries and
wages, of funds made available by the per capita tax of 25c, to conduct
and manage a Centennial Celebration that will be creditable to Grand
Lodge.
Fourth, that the Grand Secretary be authorized to honor warrants
against the Centennial fund, which may be drawn from time to time
by the Committee on Centennial Arrangements.
SALARIES

Your Committee on Finance has again given careful consideration
to the salaries of the Officers of Grand Lodge. In fixing the salary of
the Grand Secretary the recommendation of the Grand Master to increase the salary of the Grand Secretary $2,000 is being followed, as
well as the time of commencement of the increase as of August 1st of
this Grand Lodge year. After mature deliberation on the subject, your
Committee recommends that the salaries of Grand Lodge Officers be
fixed as follows :
Grand Secretary .......................,............................ $12,000
Assistant Grand Secretary ....................................
6,000
Grand Lecturer ........................................................
600
Your Committee also recommends the continuance of the arrangement previously made between the Trustees of the Masonic Homes and
the Committee on Finance, for the payment by the Homes to Grand
Lodge of 25 per cent of the salary which Grand Lodge pays the Grand
Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary, for the purpose of reimbursing Grand Lodge for the work being performed by these two officers
for the Masonic Homes. We therefore recommend that the M asonic ·
Homes pay to Grand Lodge the sum of $4,500 for these services.

'

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

291

This Committee further recommends that the traveling expenses incurred b~ Grand Lodge Officers, or members of Grand Lodge, who may
·b e traveling by authority of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore
'
from the funds of Grand Lodge.
The. Committee th.e refore recommends that the necessary funds be
appropriated for salaries and traveling expenses as above outlined.
EXPENSES OP GRAND TILER AND GRAND ORGANIST

to:

This Committee recommends that $400.00 be appropriated and paid

Grand Tiler ............................................................ $250.00
Grand Organist ...................................................... 150.00
to cover the expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
EXPENDITURES FOR WHICH NO APPROPRIATIONS
HAVE HERETOFORE BEEN MADE

Du~ing the yea.r the Grand Master has found it necessary to approve
expenditures for items on which appropriations have not heretofore
been made, as follows:
Portraits of Past Grand Masters ..........................$ 143.51
Restoration of Portraits-Past Grand Masters.... 225.00
Freedom Train Committee .................................... 171.39
Grand Lodge Magazine Committee ··········-·········· 46.24
Homes Aldmissions Committee ..............................
53.73
Jurisdiction Committee ..........................................
52.45
Retirement Plan Committee .................................. 137.98
Special Homes Investigating Committee .............. 1 76.62
2 Podiums .............................................................. 520.16
Sectional platform ................................................ 1, 198.00
Regalia ···································································· 836.36
Total $3,561.44
Your Committee on Finance approves the action of the Grand
Master in ordering the payment of all of these items and the appropriation of the funds needed.
GRAND LODGE RESERVES

At the close of the Grand Lodge year on July 31, 1947, there was
a surplus in the treasury of Grand Lodge amounting to $495,482.25.
For the Grand Lodge year just closed, there has been an excess of
income over expenses of $31 ,372.29.
By adding this amount to the amount of reserves at the close of the
year it makes the reserves at the close of this Grand Lodge year that
is, July 31, 1948-$526,854.54.
'
In calculating surplus the Committee has only included cash actually

292

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in banks and such securities as are held by Grand Lodge that could
readily be converted into cash.
Grand Lodge has an investment in the stock of the Masonic Temple,
in which we are now meeting, of $339,850. This is not included in the
calculations of the surplus.

1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1045
1946
1947
1948

GRAND MASTER'S RECOMMENDATION ON GRAND LODGE RESERVES

That portion of the Grand Master's annual message deai.ing with
Grand Lodge Reserves has been referred to your Committee on Finance
and has had its consideration. The Committee is thoroughly in accord
with the Grand Master's position on Reserves.

It has long been the financial policy of the Finance Committee that
the reserves should be accumulated during the good years for the purpose of being leaned upon in stressful years. The following scheduled
reserves, together with per capita levy since 1906, is being submitted
for your information. From this it will be noted how the reserves have
gone up during the good years and have been loaned upon during the
stressful years.
It is to be particularly noted of the gradual increase since the year
1939 and at the present time the total available liquid reserve is
$526,854.54.
It is the intent of the Finance Committee to gradually add to this
reserve when it can be done without a burden on the constituent Lodges.
It must, however, be constantly born in mind that the high cost of .
operation has also hit the constituent Lodges and it is essential that no
more additional per capita should be required of them than is necessary
for the proper maintenance of Grand Lodge.
$1.95
1.90
1.90
1.90
1.90
1.90
2.45
2.45
2.40
2.40
2.40
2.40
2.40
2.40
1.80
1.65
1.62
1.62
1.62
1.70
1.50

$235,303.46
223,296.23
246,493.96
67,730.29
62,106.51
65,552.37
63,030.07
48,619.25
43,497.98
75,864.69
55,880.49
57,772.45
67,539.74
84,754.08
80.180.98
89,189.23
104,899.55
108,081.83
120,847.18
140,974.46
120,477.02

154,849.08
177,847.87
199.861.68
194.579.27
220,660.63
174,131.09
176,981.91
176,162.87
170,598.95
162,310
151.279.12
137,577.11
141,348.87
154,213.50
269,661.81
265,880.54
275,139.85
286.939.25
401,457.43
462,908.70
495,482.25
526,854.54

1.75
1.75
1.75
1.65
1.65
1.50
1.65

1.55

1.55
1.75
1.25
1.25
1.00
1.25

GRAND LODGE PER CAPITA

It has no doubt been made evident, by the previous portions of this
report, that the high cost of operation has hit Grand Lodge. Your Committee on Finance is also well aware that the high cost of operation has
hit the constituent Lodges and most of them are in need of all the funds
being received, and it is as essential for these Lodges to be strong both
Jinancially and otherwise as it is for Grand Lodge, and therefore, no
more per capita should be levied than is necessary to properly maintain
the Jinancial position of Grand Lodge. Your Committee has constantly
had this in mind in considering every application for funds presented
~~

.

.

Resolutions have already been presented for per capita levies forMasonic Homes .............................................................. $ .50
George Washington Masonic National Memorial......
.15
Centennial Celebration ········································-········
.25
There are all in addition to the constitution requirement of a 50c levy.

SCHEDULE OF RESERVES

1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926

1.63
1.55
1.60
1.60
1.70
1.85
1.75

293

In order to cover the appropriations already made for the operation
of Grand Lodge and its various activities, it will be necessary to make
an additional levy of $.45 which will make the per capita as follows:
Grand Lodge constitutional requirements.................... $ .50
Grand Lodge activities and contingencies....................
.45
Special levy George Washington Masonic
National Memorial ..................................................
.15
Special levy Centennial Celebration..............................
.25
Masonic Homes ..............................................................
.50

.. -

Total

$1.85

294

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

It should be borne in mind that this per capita levy is for the purpose
of raising funds to care for the expenses of Grand Lodge one year
hence and that the funds for Grand Lodge needs for this coming year
are already on hand.
It will be noted that the total levy this year is $.60 higher than it
was a year ago, of which $.50 is the re-establishment of the per capita
levy for the operation of the Homes.
As the levying of additional per capita requires a special resolution
your Committee offers the following and recommends its adoption:

Resolved: That a per capita of $.45 be levied in order to care for
Grand Lodge expenses and contingencies.
BUDGET FOR 1948-1949

Following is the estimate of your Committee on the costs of maintaining Grand Lodge and its various activities for the coming year:
Activities Committee ················-···-·····-···············-···················$ 5,000.00
Annual Communication ·······································-······················· 5.500.00
250.00
Audit ·································-·········--··-····-················-·····················
Board of Control ··························-·····························-·-········- 1,500.00
100.00
Bonds and Insurance ·-······························-······--··········-········-·····
Charters Committee -··-····-·······----····-·········-·······----- 1,000.00
Columbia Temple Restoration..._______ ____ .........--····-··---- 38,204.00
500.00
Constitution Month ·····-·········-···-·····-··············-·····-···-··-······
250.00
Correspondence Committee ·····-········-····-············-········-··-750.00
13,695.00
8,000.00
General Offices of Grand Lodge........................_.........-··········-·- 5,000.00
1,000.00
5,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers Regalia ·········································--······· 3,640.00
566.50
Asst. Grand Lecturer's Official Regalia:._____.......- ......-·········-···
Grand Master's Relief ·········-····-······-········-················-····--····· 2,000.00
Grand Master-Stenographic Expense ····················--············· 1.500.00
Grand Master's Traveling Expense-···························-·-·-·· 7,000.00
400.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler......................- ..·---·--··350.00
Grand Secretaries' Conference ····---·····--······-··-··-····-···
1.200.00
Grand Treasurer's Expense······-·····-·-···-·············-···-···········
History Committee ···-···-·········-·-········-·-·····-·-·-··-··-··· 8,819.72
Information Committee ······-··············-···-···-····-·····-·······-··· 5.500.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery......•.·-···-·-··-···---····-- 1,000.00
lnspectors' Expense ·····--········-········································--··········· 3,500.00
600.00
Lodge Finance Committee ···············································-···········
Office Equipment ·············-···························································· 1,000.00
Office Supplies and Sundries ················································-··-·· 1,000.00
P. G. M. Portraits ·······-····-············-········--···········-·········-··-······· 5,200.00
Pay of Members ····························································-·-··········· 22,850.00
Podiums, Platforms & Cleaning Portraits....---···--········-·······-·· 1.943.16
2,000.00
15,000.00
..
Public Schools Week ·-·--··-····-···-··········-···········-·--······- 1,250.00
145.00
Relief Boards-Reimbursement ····························-··-··-·--·-·
Rent -·----·-·····-·-···----·········-··········-····-····-··-·-··-···- 6,600.00
900.00
Retirement-Marian Van Buskirk ····························----··-·····

.

~:rr~~~~~~~~!. :::~~::::~~==:::::::::::::::====:::::::::=:-~:::::::::

g::~e ~~~hic,g~~~r~E~;!~s~~~~~~-~-~-~~~:--~-~~~~~~::::::::

~~~~ ~-~-~~:.~~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

[

1

295

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ritual Committee Expense ·························-·······-············-········ 3.500.00
Salaries (Include Grand Lecturer in this)-·-···························· 28,600.00
600.00
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123..------------------·Taxes, Social Security and UnemploymenL.-----···········--··- 1,000.00
Telephone and Telegraph ········-·················································· . 1,000.00
University Clubhouses ···························-········-··········-··········-· 49,571.20
Veteran Buttons .....................•...................................................... 1,200.00
Miscellaneous ···························································-··-··--··········· 1,000.00
Total -····-·····················-····-··-····-·····-········-···--··---····~--$266,18458

Resolutions have been presented for the appropriation of the necessary funds for all items listed in the budget, with the exception of the
following:
Annual Communication &pense-·--····---·--·····--·····---$ 5,500.00
Audit --·-······-··-·-·······-····-···-·········-··-··-···-····-···-···-·····-······250.00
Bonds and Insurance................................................................................
100.00
Grand Masters Relief ·············--········-······-'-··-··-··-·-·""-········--··-· 2,000.00
Grand Secretaries' Conference................................................................
350.00
Inspectors' Aprons & Stationery_·---··-····-··-·······-··········--··--······ 1,000.00
Office Supplies and Sundries-·-·····························-···-····-····-······- 1,000.00
Offce Salaries .......................................................................................... 10,000.00
Postage and &press...........·-··-·······-·······--···········-····-····--········ 2,000.00
1

k~~t~~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~88:88

Retirement-Marian Van Buskirk.. ____________ ......•......·------······900.00
Taxes ........................................................................................................ _ 1,000.00
Telephone and Telegraph Service·-····-------·--···-·-···- 1,000.00

~~~~ii:e~u~tt~~-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::~-::::::::::::·· ~:~:88
TOTAL -·-·--·-··-···-··------··--··---------$49.900.00

Your Committee on Finance, therefore, now offers the following
resolution and recommends its adoption:

Resolved: That the necessary funds to cover the above listed items
be appropriated.
INCOME
Collections from Lodges.·--·····-·-·--···-·······--······ $187.665.00
Interest and Dividends------·--··-·-·--··-·· 17,000.00
Sundry Income··········-····-····-···-··-············-···-······· 15,000.00
Total Income --····-············-·-···········-···········-··-···· $219,665.00
Excess Expenditures over Income..-·-····--·- $ 8,315.58

It is noted that the estimated cost of operation for the fiscal year
commencing August 1, 1948, as set out in the budget just submitted
is $266,184.58.
There is now in the treasury, for the purpose of caring for these
expenses, the sum of $187,665.00. This is from the returns of the
Lodges for the year just closed. There will also be coming in during the
year and available for expenditure, an additional amount from interest
and dividends, and some other smaJl items of income, in the sum of

296

297

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

approximately $32,000 making a total estimated income for the year
of $219,665.
According to this estimate of Income and Expenses, there should
be a deficit in the ytar's operations of approximately $46,519.58.
The Committee's estimate of the amount which should be received
from the per capita levy already established and from other sources of
income during the succeeding year and which will be available for
Grand Lodge operations for the year 1949-1950, will approximate
$220,000.

subject and we are in entire sympathy with its finding and recommendations ..
We agree that policy should be adopted of protecting and restoring
for future generations, evidence of early day Masonry in California. We
therefore approve the recommendations of the Columbia Temple Restoration Committee.
A motion prevailed that the report be amended by striking therefrom the concluding sentence: "We therefore approve the recommendation of the Columbia Temple Restoration Committee", and the report
as amended was adopted.
The Finance Committee then moved that no appropriation be made
for the purpose of restoring Columbia Temple.
The Columbia Temple Restoration Committee offered a substitute
motion, "That the sum of $38,204.00 be appropriated for the restoration
of Columbia Temple", and by a vote of 524 in favor to 402 against, the
substitute motion carried, and Grand Lodge ordered an appropriation
of $38,204.00 for the restoration of Columbia Temple.
The Finance Committee then moved that an additional 20c per
capita be levied to provide the amount of the appropriation, and a substitute motion was offered that the appropriation be made out of the
reserves of Grand Lodge. By a vote of 507 in favor, to 360 against, the
substitute motion carried and Grand Lodge ordered that $38,204.00 for
the restoration of Columbia Temple be made from the reserves of Grand
Lodge.
The Columbia Temple Committee then moved the adoption of
recommendations 3, 4 and 5 of that report noting the correction of the
amount to $38,204.00, and the motion was carried.
In the matter of the plaque for Western Star Lodge No. 2, the Committee on Finance recommended against an appropriation. The Committee on Policy and General Purposes having approved. and Grand
Lodge having adopted the resolution as a matter of policy. the Grand
Master held that it was incumbent upon the committee to report the
appropriation to Grand Lodge. The Committee on Finance moved that
the Grand Master be authorized to direct the preparation and presentation of an appropriate plaque and to expend such amount as might be
determined by him, and the motion was carried.

Respectfully and fraternally submitted,
ARTHUR S. CRITES
F. WESLEY DAVIES
ELLSWORTH BARNETT
CLAUDE H. MORRISON
JoHN A. BURNS
RoBERT G. WoLL

Columbia Temple Restoration

and
Western Star Lodge No. 2 Plaque
In the matter of the Columbia Temple Restoration, Grand Lodge
took the following action:
The Finance Committee reported adversely on the request of the
Columbia Temple Committee for an appropriation of $38,204.00 for the
restoration of Columbia Temple. A discussion developed the fact that
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes had not made a definite
recommendation on the subject and the Grand Master re-referred the
matter back to that committee for study and directed that it make a
definite recommendation. That committee reported as follows:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which has been
referred the report and recommendations of the Columbia Temple Restoration Committee, reports as follows:
We have carefully considered the report as written and agree with
the proponents that much of California's early Masonic history is to be
found in the mountain sections of Northern California, commonly referred to as the Mother Lode. that unless some of these relics of pioneer
Masonry are preserved for posterity. the time will come, in the not too
distant future when all physical evidence of early day Masonry will have
disappeared.
We realize that this committee has made_an exhaustive study of the

I

ARTHUR

s. CRITES

Past Grand Master
At the close of the morning session, P. G. M. Arthur S. Crites revealed to Grand Lodge that for a long period of time he had contemplated giving up his respo:tisibility as Chairman of the Committee on Finance,
and that several months ago he had reached a definite decision to do so
at the conclusion of this Annual Communication. He made it clear to

298

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

299

AFTERNOON SESSION .

Grand Lodge that this irrevocable decision had been reached only after
long and careful consideration, and he left Grand Lodge no alternative
but to accept his decision.
A standing ovation was tendered Brother Crites for his long service
on the committee and a motion was unanimously carried that a special
committee be appointed by the Grand Master to draft a suitable resolution of appreciation, the committee to report prior to the close of this
Communication of Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master appointed Past Grand Masters John Stewart
Ross and William B. Ogden, and Brother Henry C. Clausen.

Grand ·L odge called on at 2:30 p.m. the Grand Master presiding.
Dr. H. C. Mei, Past District Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
the Philippine Islands for China, was presented by the Grand Master
and spoke briefly expressing appreciation for the service rendered by
this Grand Lodge during the war.

Committees Discharged
The Grand Master discharged the Committees on Freedom Train
and Homes Applications, their work having been completed, and the
Committee on Accounts, superseded by professional auditors, expressing
to the members of all these Committees the thanks of Grand Lodge for
work well done.
Record is here made that portions of the reports of the committees
on Grievances, Policy and General Purposes, Jurisprudence and Finance
were made on days other than herein indicated, and in a different sequence, the complete reports having been compiled as printed for purposes of ready reference.
At 1 :05 p.m. Grand Lodge called off till 2:30 p.m.

l

t

Resolution
The Special Committee appointed by the Grand Master to draft
A Resolution relative to Past Grand Master Arthur S. Crites reported
as follows:
Whereas, Most Worshipful Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master
of Masons in California, has served this Grand Lodge long and faithfully, and Whereas, he has been a member, and for sixteen years he has
been Chairman of the Grand Lodge Committee on Finance, during
which time, by his devotion to Masonry and by the application of his
preemiJ?.ent ability as a financier he has so formed and developed our
financial program as to enhance greatly the· growth and stability of our
institution, and
Whereas, our Most Worshipful Brother has announced his irrevocable intention to retire from many of his activities, and in particular to
retire as Chairman of our Committee on Finance,
Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved, by the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, in its
99th Annual Communication assembled, does express to Most Worshipful Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master, our sincere recognition
and deep appreciation of his outstanding service to Masonry, and to
this Grand Lodge in particular, that he has earned and merits an enduring place in Masonic history throughout the Masonic world, and the
love and affection which his Brethren will always bear toward our distinguished Brother, and
Be is further Resolved that this resolution be spread upon the
Minutes of this Grand Lodge, and that a copy suitably engrossed be
presented to him at a proper time and ceremony.
Done in open Grand Lodge this 15th day of October, A. L. 5948.
Adopted unanimously followed by a standing ovation.

300

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Officers of Grand Lodge were elected as fo11ows:

Annual Election
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
annual election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections of
the Constitution applying to the same.
The Grand Master then appointed the following Brethren to serve
as tellers:
Hal N. Bennet, Master, Plymouth No. 560.
Chas K. Bagley, Past Master, Plymouth No. 560.
Wm. G. Thurman, Past Master, Plymouth No. 560.
Herbert A. Adams, Past Master, Plymouth No. 560.
Earl H. Johnson, Past Master, Lodi No. 256.
Fred C. Doll, Master, Libertas No. 466.
L.A. Blackman, Master, Trona No. 684.
Carl W. Brannard, Master, Warren G. Harding No. 579.
Kenneth M. Harris, Master, Roseville No. 222.
C. S. Baumstark, Master, Buena Park No. 357.
E. J. B. Coyne, Master, Crossroads No. U. D.
J. F. Hogan, Master, Beverly Hills No. 528.
Ralph V. Devoto, Sr. Warden, Hartley No. 199.
Albert T. Luck, Master, Craftsmen No. 559.
Jesse B. Chapman, Master, Pentalpha No. 202.
Floyd E. Fowler, Master, Manchester No. 585.
Willard H. Buscher, Master, Le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371.
Ross K. Vandever, Master, Schofield No. 443.
William B. Jennings, Master, Pearl Harbor No. 598.
G. C. Shinkoethe, Master, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.

301

1

I

r

The R. W. Edward H. Siems, Plymouth Lodge No. 560, was elected
Grand Master.
The R. W. Ellsworth Meyer, Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677, was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Arthur Paulsen, Trinity Lodge No. 27, was elected
Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Louis C. Drapeau, Poinsettia Lodge No. 633, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The M. W. Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master, California
Lodge No. 1, was reelected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge
No. 630, was reelected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Arthur M. Warren, Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481, was
reelected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master~elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, W. Paul Reagor, Plymouth Lodge No. 560.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Delta Lodge No.
4 71: Walter H. E. VonKonsky, Seaport Lodge No. 550; Obed W. Carr,
Porterville Lodge No. 303: Frank Harwell, Jr., Beverly Hills Lodge
No. 528.
Grand Orator, Joseph R. Knowland, Sr., Oak Grove ~dge No. 215.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco
Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal, George D. Gavin, Oriental Lodge No. 144.
Grand Standard Bearer, Philip N. Myers. McCloud Lodge No. 430.
Grand Sword Bearer, Ted R. Siems, Buena Park Lodge No. 357.
Grand Bible Bearer, Charles Forbes, Sr., San Miguel Lodge No. 285.
Senior Grand Deacon, Clinton T. Duffy, Marin Lodge No. 191.
Junior Grand Deacon, Raymond P. Wakeman, Silver Gate Lodge
No. 296.
Senior Grand Steward, Max A .. Plumh, Charter Rock Lodge No.
410.
Junior Grand Steward, Frank E. Ahrendt, Schofield Lodge No. 443.
Grand Pursuivant, John M. Gordon, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202.
Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson, Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Alvin A. Horwege. Woodstock Lodge No. 491.
The Grand Secretary announced the appointment by the Grand
Master~elect of Ralph Head and L. Harold Anderson as Trustees of the
Masonic Homes.

302

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The M. W. Arthur S. Crites acted as Master of Ceremonies, and the
officers elected and appointed were installed by the retiring Grand
Master in due and ancient form.
The newly#installed Grand Master then invested his predecessor
with a Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Chas. Albert Adams insignia was transferred from the retiring
to the incumbent Grand Master and the other chair officers exchanged
the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The Chester H. Warlow Grand Lecturer's insignia was presented
to the incumbent Grand Lecturer by Brother Warlow, who explained
that the gold of which the lapel button was made had been mined by him
and that this insignia of office, designed by him, was to be worn by
successors in office to the Grand Lecturer.
The M. W. John R. Moore. Past Grand Master, invested the re#
tiring Grand Master with the apron of a Past Grand Master.
The M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master. on behalf of the
members of Grand Lodge presented a gift to Mrs. Chester H. Warlow,
and it was accepted by the retiring Grand Master in her behalf.
The Very Reverand James M. Malloch, on behalf of the appointive
officers who had served under Grand Master Chester H. Warlow,
presented the retiring Grand Master with a gift as a token and memento
of their appreciation of appointment and joy in having served with him.
At 5:45 p.m., all business being completed. Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

Grand Master

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL

303

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page
Consolidated General Statement....................................................304-305
Grand Lodge Budget 1946~ 194 7.................................. ~ .................•.......306
Financial Report-Grand Lodge:
Grand Lodge Audit ......................................................................~.307
Grand Lodge Funds........................................................................308
Grand Secretary's Accounts......................................................... -.310
Grand Treasurer's Accounts. .........................................................313
Financial Report-Endowment Fund:
Auditor's Report...................................................·-·················-·····316
Grand Treasurer's Report..............................................................317
Assets ..............................................................................................318
Summary of Securities....................................................................322
Financial Report-Masonic Homes:
(
(

Auditor's Report........................................................................•.....323
Cash Receipts and Disbursements..................................................325
Balance Sheet....................................................................................326
Securities Listed ................................................................................328
Special Funds..·-··········-··············································-········-'-·329-336
Operating Expenses................................................................336-341
Audit of 1948 Returns..............................................................- .....342
Statistical:
Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund. ...................343
Details of Masonic Homes............................................................356
Annual Returns 1947·························································-··-··-···386

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

305

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CONSOLIDATED CASH STATEME VGUST 1, 1947-JULY 31, 1948
_GRAND LODGE
MASONIC HOMES
The Grand Treasurer, by virtue of office and Constitutional pro-vision, is custodian of the funds here reported under that title.

Exhibits referred to are in Auditor's Grand Lodge Report

Gjfse

Cash Balance
August l, 19-47

$

22,301.59
24,238.10

General Fund (A)-····-································-··········
War Relief Fund (C)............................................_
George Washington Masonic Nat'l Endowment Fund (D)......................................................
George Washington Masonic Nat'l Per-capita
Fund (D) ..............................................................
Plaridel Temple Bldg. Fund (Manila)................
Grand Lodge Totals ......................................

$

Exhibits referred to are in Auditor's Masonic Homes Report

Cash Balance
August l, 19-47

General Fund (A)....................................................
Special and Trust Funds (A) (B) (B2-B14 inc.)
Masonic Homes Totals..................................

$ 223,163.13
32,141.58
$ 255,304.71

Exhibits referred to are in Auditor's Masonic Homes
Endowment Fund Report

Cash Balance
August 1. 1947

·Masonic Homes Endowment Fund (A)..............
Luckenbach Fund (B)......- ...................................
Endowment Fund Totals..............................

$ 147,578.84
56.12
147,634.96
$
$ 461,783.36

12,304.00
58,843.69

Total

Disbursements

Cash Balance
July 31, 19-48

346,771.00
28,109.94

$ 307,973.47
790.00

$

4,51

4,511.00

1,255.00

25,n

25,770.45
12,304.00
417,466.39

12,304.00
$ 322,322.47

$

Total

Disbursements

Cash Balance
July 31, 19-48

Custody of
Grand Treasurer

$ 301,700.58
37,144.75

$ ~38,845.33

$ 266,584.41
31,647.51
$ 298,231.92

Disbursements

Cash Balance
July 31, 19-48

Custody of
Grand Treasurer

$1,142,375.93
226.80
$1,142,602.73

$ 136,835.78
56.68
136,892.46
$

$ 136,835.78
56.68
136,892.46
$

$2,357 ,402.72

$ 570,881.71

$ 519,832.31

$

$

38,797.53
27,319.94

Custody of
Grand Treasurer

$

28,361.54
27,319.94

3,256.00

3,256.00

25,770.45

25,770.45

95,143.92

$

84,707.93

Operating

$

10,435.99

$

10,435.99

M

Consolidated Cash Totals......................................

$
$

Total

1,279,211.71
283.48
1,279,495.19

Consolidated Invest

Totals -························--··························--········
•Includes L11c.k:enbach Fu.nd

$ 471,165.00
131,187.50
212,172.50

$ 849,458.76
43,018.76
$ 892,477.52

Operating

$
$

35,116.17
5,497.24
40,613.41

Operating

$

51,049.40

ent-July 31, 1948
Treasurer
Building
and Loan
Savings
and Loan
Certificates

Bonds

Grand Lodge General (F)......................................
War Relief Fund <F>--··········································
Masonic Homes General (B-1)............................
Masonic Homes-Special and Trust Funds
(B2-B-14) ..............................................................
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund*
(B Sched. 1&2)-.......,...................................- .......

1,151,159.34
80,163.51
1,231,322.85

In Custody of Grand Secretary
Notes and
Contracts
Receivable

Notes and
Contracts
Receivable

Insurance
Policies

Real Estate

$

$ 2,700.00*

590,170.83

2,292.01

3,131,063.70
$4,535,759.53

6,521.87
8,813.88

$

$

20,102.32

$

3,453.25
23,555.57

DOC include Decot0 and Covina Properties

$

6,871.97

$

633.30

$

5,623.00

$

14.00
6,885.97

$

2,600.00
3,233.30

$

8,323.00

306

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

BUDGET FOR 1948~ 1949

Following is the estimate of your committee on the costs of main~
taining Grand Lodge and its various activities for the coming year:
Activities Committee·-··-··-···········-····-·····-··-·--·-····-··-··-$ 5,000.00
Annual Communication...- .....::....·-····-····-··---·········-·······-·· 5,500.00
250.00
Audit ·-·-····-·······-··-·-·····································-·-·················-···
Board of ControL----·········---·-·-··-·········------ 1,500.00
100.00
Bonds and Insurance -··········-·········-·-·-··-··················-···········
Charters Committee.----···----·-·-·······-········-··············· 1,000.00
Columbia Tal'lple Restoration...________.....- ..................... 38.204.00
500.00
Constitution Month.-----···········-········-·····-·················250.00
Correspondence Committee.----··········-·--····--·--············-·······
750.00
De Molay Committee.---···-·········-···---·-···························-···
Employment Bureaus...·-··-········-········-··············-·········-···-·- 13.695.00
Endowment Board..•·---····------·--·-····...-·----···- 8,000.00
General Offices of Grand Lodge_··················-······-·-·········-····· 5,000.00
George Washington Masonic National Mem. Committee.·-···· 1.000.00
Grand Lodge Officers Expense.-..,.....·-···········-························· 5,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers Regalia.............-----·····-················· 3,640.00
566.50
Asst. Grand Lecturer's Official Regalia·-··········-·········-·········-·
Grand Master's Relief.·--····--·····-··-··--·-·············-·-- 2,000.00
Grand Master-Stenographic Expense.·-·----···-···-···-- 1.500.00
Grand Master's Traveling Expense·-····--·-···--·-······-········ 7.000.00
i00.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler--·-··············--·····-···--········
350.00
Grand Secretaries' Conference........·-······-·····--····--·····-·-··--·
Grand Treasurer's Expense---·-·--····-····---·········--·······-·-· 1,200.00
History Committee·-··--··············- ·-··-···-·-········--·······-·-···· 8.819.72
Information Committee-····-·-···--·-·······-··-··········--·-··- 5,500.00
1,000.00
3,500.00
600.00
Lodge Finance Committee·--··-··············-·····----··-····-···········
Office Equipment.--·-····--···················-·······-······-··········-···· 1,000.00
Office Supplies and Sundries.............·--··---···············--- 1,000.00
P. G. M. Portraits.·-····--··········--·-······················--··- 5,200.00
Pay of Members...--- ----··-·--·-·-··--···----- 22.850.00
Podiums, Platforms & Cleaning Portraits·--······-···-·-·-···· 1,9i3.16
Postage and Expresa.-----·-··--------·-····-··-··-- 2,000.00
Printlng ··············-·-····-········--··-···--·······---··-····-···········- 15.000.00
Public Schools Week._--·---···-····-····---·-····-··--·- 1.250.00
H5.00
Relief Boards - ReimbursemenL.--·········-·····-··················6,600.00
Rent
--········-··-·---······-··--·-··•·····--·--·······················--Retirement - Marian Van Buskirk.______________............. ______
900.00
--······----·······--······- 3.500.00
Ritual Committee Expense
Salaries (Include Grand Lecturer in this)·-···························· 28,600.00
600.00
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123---·--·--·---····-···---···Taxes, Social Security and Unemployment....................-····- 1,000.00
Telephone and Telegraph.....·--··············-···--····--··-·---· 1,000.00
University Oubhouse&.---··-··-········--···--···-·-·········-·---- '49,571.20
Veteran Buttom..·-·-···-···-·-·---···-·-··-······-··-·····-··· 1.200.00
Miscellaneous --·-··-·····---·-·······--····--·····-·····-··-· 1.000.00

~:~:~!~~=: ~1;!.ean~~-~~:::::::::~---···-··=:==:::

Total------··-·- --,·-------$266,lM.58

....
I

September 23, 1948

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen
We have audited the books of account and records of the Grand Lodge
F. & A. M. of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1948 and present
herewith the following statements:
Grand Lodge Funds
Exhibit A: Statement of Grand Lodge cash received and disbursed by the
Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer, August 1, 1947 to July 31, 1948.
Grand Secretarys Accounts
Exhibit B: Resume of cash received, August 1, 1947 to July 31, 1948.
Schedule 1: ·statement of Grand Lodge per capita dues collected from
1947 annual returns.
Schedule 2: Statement of Masonic Homes $25 contributions collected during the year 1947-48.
Schedule 3: Comparison of Budget and Expenditures, 1947-48.
Grand Treasurer's Accounts
Exhibit C: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements, August 1, 1947
to July 31, 1948.
Exhibit D: Statement of assets and liabilities, July 31, 1948.
Exhibit E: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements, War Relief
Fund, August 1. 1947 to July 31, 1948.
Exhibit F: List of securiites, July 31, 1948.
Comments
The revenue from per capita dues and other sources exceeded the expenses and appropriations by $31,372.29 as shown by Exhibit D. This excess
revenue was computed without deducting the $12,578.00 paid to Gravel Range
Lodge No. 59, the payment being classified as an account receivable in our
report.
All per capita dues, as reported on the 1947 annual returns from constituent Lodges, have been prud in full. Our Schedules 1 and 2 show proof of
the revenue due from the Lodges in accordance with their 1947 returns and
the $25.00 Homes contributions reports for the first three quarters of the fiscal
year 1947-48. The total revenue due, as shown, agrees with the total cash
received from the Lodges by the Grand Secretary.
Cash receipts were accounted for and traced to the proper depositories.
Disbursements were made by checks and supported by vouchers properly
approved by the Committee on Accounts. All bank balances were verified
by correspondence with the depositories. Certified list of the securities were
received from the Anglo California National Bank which holds the securities .
for safe-keeping. The securities as recorded in the books of account were
checked to these lists and found to be in agreement. All interest and dividends
due thereon were received and accounted for. $90,000.00 of U. S. Treasury
Bonds, due 1970 and 1972 were sold and $90,000.00 of U. S. Savings Bonds,
series G, due 1960 were purchased, during the year.
The War Relief Fund, amounting to $158,507.44, was transferred to the
General Fund of Grand Lodge and earmarked for future disposition by
Grand Lodge, in accordance with the recommendation adopted at the 1947
communication of Grand Lodge.
We show on our Statement of Assets and Liabilities, Exhibit D, under
Liabilities, the amount of $29,026.45 due to George Washington Masonic
National Memorial Fund by Grand Lodge. This amount is made up of the
per capita levy of 15c assessed on the 1947 annual returns and $4,511.00
collected from the $1.00 initiates' contributions, less $1,255.00 of the $1.00
contributions which was sent to the Fund during the year.
We certify that, in our opinion, the attached statements fairly present the
financial condition of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California as at July 31,
1948 and the result of its operations for the fiscal year 1947-48.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS, PARKER & COMPANY,
Certified Public Accountants.
Walter A. Parker.

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE FUNDS

Gr.an~ Lodge office equipment............
Prmtmg ···-··········-····························-·······
~~lies for resale..·-··················-··········· $

Exhibit A

gg:i:fi~~~~5;·5~~i;;·i>-ond"···················

Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August 1, 1947 to July 31, 1948
Cash balance, August 1, 1947-·-·-··--··-·--·-··-··-·-··-····--······-··-'
Received by Grand Secretary
Dues from Lodges, 1947 annual returns
(Schedule 1) ·-···-·····--···-·---·-··-··-····--··-·-···$ 187,939.55
Dues from Lodges for prior years.•..............................
179.71
Charters and dispensations............................................. .
520.00
20,859.87
Sales of supplies ···········································-···················
Collections for Lodge officers surety bonds................
2,053.13

22,301.59

....

Total revenue receipts......·--······-··············-··-$ 211,552.26
Refund of expenses (see disbursements) ..................... .
4,472.21
Payments from Sotoyome Lodge No. 123................... .
1,200.00
525.00
Received for account of War Relief Fund..........·-·······
Per capita dues for George Washington National
25,770.45
Memorial Fund ·····················································-·······
Initiates' contributions to George Washington National Memorial Fund..................................................
4,511.00
Total cash received by Grand Secretary......
Received by Grand Treasurer:
Bank interest ···································-·································
Bond interest ·················-··············-··········-··············-·······
Interest accrued on ''F" bonds....... _..............:.........- .....
Dividends ···········-······-······:···········································-···
Profit on bonds sold..·-··-······-··-··-····-··-··-·········-·······

210.79
9,494.52 •
1,485.00
5,097.75
431.88

Total revenue receipts-·······························-···
Sale of U. S. Treasury bonds.......;···············-··········-·······

16,719.94
90,000.00

$248,030.92

Total cash received by Grand Treasurer....

106,719.94

Total to account for ..·-·········
Disbursements:
By Grand Secretary (from page 3) ••·-··-··---··-···········
By Grand Treasurer (from page 3) .•·-··-··--··-······-·-

377,052.45
116,343.51
192,884.96

309,228.47

Cash balance, July 31. 1948:
Funds with Grand Secretary._....- ..··-···-·········-·-··· ·
Funds with Grand Treasurer-·················-··········-····-$

10,435.99
57,387.99

67,823.98

Increase in redemption value of ''F" ..

Disbursements:
Grand Secretary's office expense:
Salaries ·······················-·······················
Rent ........................................................
Postage and express............................
Telephone and telegraph....................
Supplies and sundry expense........... .
Total office expense....................

309

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

- - Disbursed b11-Grand
Grand
Treasurer
Secretary

$

Total

24,836.18
4,800.00
1,473.74
1,045.40
998.50

$

33,153.82

premiums ..............................................
lleftmds to Lodges for dues adjustments for prior years...- .....................
Relief-order of the Grand Master........
Outside relief by Grand Lodge............
Pay of representatives to Grand
Lodge ......................................................
Activities Committee ·················-···········
Annual communication ..........................
Board of Control.......... _.................•.......
Centennial Arrangements Committee
Charters Committee ............................... .
Columbia Temple Committee............. .
Constitution Month Observance..........
Correspondence Committee ..................
De Malay Committee ............................. .
Endowment Board...............----···············
Freedom Train Committee....................
Grand Lodge Magazine Committee......
History Committee ................................
Homes Admissions Committee............
Jurisdiction Committee ........................
Lodge Finance Committee....................
Masonic Information Committee...- .....
Public Schools Week Committee........
Retirement Plan Committee..................
Ritual Committee·······························'····
Special Homes Investigating
Committee ·····-·····································
George Washin21;on Memorial
Committee ···············-···························
Grand Lecturer's salary..........................
Grand Lodge Officers expense..............
Grand Master's miscellaneous
expense ···············-······-·························
Grand Master's traveling expense......
Grand Master-1947 miscellaneous
expense ···································-·············
Grand Master's present..·-···-···············
Grand Secretaries' Conference
expense ·······································-·········
Grand Treasurer's expense................... .
Grand Tiler and Grand Organist......... .
Inspectors' aprons and stationery........
Inspectors' traveling expense................
Past Grand Masters' portraits..............
Employment Bureaus ···········-···············
Masonic Club Houses..................·-·········
50-year buttons......·-······-······-··-·-··-···
Audit ···········-··-····································-···
Bonds and insurance premiums............
Pension-Marion Van Buskirk. ...........
Board of Relief Reimbursement..........
Truces-Social Security and
unemployment ·········-············-···········
Miscellaneous ·······················-··········-·····
Total disbursed for expenses.... $

827.92
3,172.08

19,184.05
2,305.77

2,500.00

1,246.39
11,896.76
17,882.75

1,246.39
11,896.76
18,710.67
3,172.08

1,366.25

1,366.25

180.96
2,041.28
1,450.00

180.96
2,041.28
1,450.00

156.90
1,898.58
5,347.42
2,016.48
144.78
487.27
111.25
155.46
250.00
384.22
2,504.48
171.39
46.24
6,308.42
53.73
52.45
613.94
1,665.12
745.36
137.98
2,458.75

19,340.95
4,204.35
5,347.42
2,016.48
144.78
487.27
111.25
155.46
250.00
384.22
5,004.48
171.39
46.24
6,308.42
53.73
52.45
613.94
1,665".12
745.36
137.98
2,458.75

176.62

176.62

897.06
600.00
3,857.48

897.06
600.00
3,857.48

2,000.00
7,000.00

2,000.00
7,000.00
475.17

475.17
300.00

350.00
1,080.00

350.00
1,080.00
400.00
860.21
3,355.34
1,886.49
10,746.37
36,351.43
975.00
250.00
82.00
900.00
10.00

300.00

400.00
1,845.00
10,746.37
36,351.43

860.21
3,355.34
41.49
975.00

250.00
10.00

82.00
900.00

774.74
774.74
653.75
653.75
86,892.62 $ 110,007.29 $ 196,899.91

310

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Disbursements refunded (see receipts):
Masonic Homes salaries.·-··········-···········
Office expense......................·-····--··-·-·
Activities Committee.......-----·-······-··-·
Grand Lodge Officers' expense............
Masonic Information Committee..·-···
60-year buttons ·······-······-·····-·····-··-··
Federal Unemployment taxes...·-·-··-·

$

$

Total expenses refunded..·-··-···
Disbursements to be refunded:
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123..·-·-······-··-···
War Relief Fund......·-··-··-··-···----·····$
Grand Lodge of Illinois......·-······-·········
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59......·-··-·····
U. S. Savings Bonds purchased............
Increase in redemption value of "F"
bonds transferred to interest
income ....................................................
Transfer of initiates' contributions to
Washington Memorial Association..

4,000.00 $
87.50
60.80
138.45
172.75
9.00
3.71

4,000.00
87.50
60.80
138.45
172.75
9.00
3.71

4,472.21 $

4,472.21

12,578.00
90,000.00

1,800.00
674.34
64.01
12,578.00
90,000.00

1,485.00

1,485.00

1,255.00

1,255.00

674.34

$

1,800.00 $
64.01

-----

Disposition of Revenue

g~~~:e ~~!h~gt~~-·M~-~~i~--N~t·i~~iil·iVi~;;;:~~-f;;i·········· $187,939.55
Fund, 171,803 members@ 15c...·-······-·-···················

41,907

@ $1.00

$ 41,907.00

@ $1.00

171,803.00

Master Masons:
Membership ·····················-·······-·-··-···-· 173,917
Deduct, dues remitted..·-····-··-···-·--···2,114
Net ·········-··················-··-··--········· 171,803

Total Grand Lodge dues as per annual returns of 1947........ $213,710.00
Cash received and turned over to the Grand Treasurer........ $213,710.00

$213,710.00

Schedule 2
Statement of Masonic Homes $25 Contributions
From 1947 Annual Returns and
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
$25.00 Homes contributions 1947-48·
Initiations ·····-····················-·············: $
~~iliations .........................................:::
. . and F.C·-·-··-·-··--··-··-·-·-···-Total ···--······················-··············· $

13,930.00
912.00
14.00
14,856.00 $ 371,400.00

Deduct, First three quarters collected and reported in 1947 proceedings....................................

GRAND SECRETARY'S ACCOUNTS
Exhibit B
Resume of Cash Received
August 1, 1947 to July 31, 1948
Received and Transferred to Grand Treasurer
For Grand Lodee:
Per capita dues, etc. (Exhibit A>-----·--·-·-···-·-··-··-·····--··· $ 248,030.92
For the Masonic Homes:
314,425.00
$25.00 contributions..---------····-·-··-··--··---··-··-····-···-···
For the Endowment Fund:
296,134.80
Contributions and bequests----·········-··-··--·-··-····-·····
Total received and transferred to Grand Treasurer......·-····· $ 858,590.72
Schedule 1
Statement of Grand Lodge Per Capita Dues Collected
From 1947 Annual Returns
•
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Per Capita
Amount
Number
Dues
Degrees conferred:
Initiated ·····-······················-···-············-····· 13,930
Passed ·····················-··-····-··-···-··-··-······· 13,968
Raised ·····-······-········----··-········-····-·····-· 14,009

25,770.45

Total as above..·--········-··--------··-··--····-··

Total disbursements.................... $ 192,884.96 $ 116,343.51 $ 309,228.47

Total ·····-······-···-······-··-····-·······-··-

311

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

268,075.00

Balance, Fourth quarter 1946-47 collected during 1947-48 ·························-··························-··--···
Add, First three quarters 1947-48............................

$ 103,325.00
211,100.00

Total contributions received..................·-·········

$ 314,425.00

Total cash received for the Masonic Homes
and turned over to the Treasurer................

$ 314,425.00

Schedule 3
Comparison of Budget and Expenditures
1947-48

...

•
Appropriation Expended
Under
Over
Activities Committee .................... $ 4,000.00 $ 4,204.35
$ 204.35
Ann~al Communication ................
4,000.00
5,347.42
1,347.42
Audit ·················-··-·····-··-··-···········
250.00
250.00
516.48
Board of ControL--····-····-··-··-···
1,500.00
2,016.48
68.00
Bonds and Insurance..·-··········-···150.00
82 00 $
Charters Committee ......................
500.00
487.27
12.73
Constitution Month Observance..
500.00
155:46
344.54
~orrispondence Committee ..........
250.00
250.00
mp oyment Bureaus .................... 10,746.00 10,746.37
.37
Endowment Board·······-····-········-· 10,832.00
5,004.48 5,827.52
Grand Lecturer's salary....·-······-···
600.00
600.00
Grand Lodge Offi!!er's expense....
3,000.00
3,857.48
857.48
Grand Master's miscellaneous
expense ·········-··············-···············
2,000.00
2,000.00
Grand Master's traveling expense
7,000.00
7,000.00
Salary Grand Tiler..........................
250.00
250.00
Salary Grand Organist....................
150.00
· 150.00
Grand Secretary's Conference......
350.00
350.00
Grand Treasurer's expense·-······-·
1,200.00
1,080.00
120.00
History Committee ·····-················· 11,000.00
6,308.42 4,691.58
Information Committee ................
1,500.00
1,665.12
165.12
Inspector's aprons and stationery
1,000.00
860.21
139.79
Inspector's expense ···-············-·····
3,000.00
3,355.34
355.34

312

Lodge Finance Committee............
Office equipment -···--·--··········--·······
Office supplies and sundries..........
Past Grand Masters portraits........
Pay of members................................
Postage and express..................·-···
Printing ............................................
Public Schools Week.....·-··-···········
Relief by Grand Lodge....................
Relief by Grand Master.........,........
Relief Boards - Reimbursements
Rent -····-··-·······-··········- ·····················
Ritual Committee expense............
Salaries ···················-···-··--·····-····-······
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123................
Taxes-Social Security and
Unemployment -·-·-·-··················--·
Telephone and telegraph...........- ...
University Club Houses........:.........
Veterans buttons ······-··-······-··········
Miscellaneous ·--··-·····--·····-·········--···
Contingency Gravel Range Lodge
Ross Digest Printing........................
Committee on Memorial Temple..
Marian Van Buskirk........................
Committee on De Molay................
Columbia ····--········---·····-- ······-··········
Centennial Arrangements
Committee ·········--··- ·--···············-Grand Master 1947 expense..........
Grand Master's present............·-···
Freedom Train Committee............
Grand Lodge Magazine
Committee -···-·-·--··---- --····-··--···-·
Homes Admissions Committee......
Jurisdiction Committee..·-········- ··Retirement Plan Committee..........
Special Homes Investigating
Committee ----- -------··-·-···········-···
George Washington Memorial
Committee --·-····----··-·----·-- ·······--

313

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

600.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
3,530.00
18,750.00
2,000.00
10,000.00
1,250.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
10.00
6,500.00
2,500.00
25,080.00
600.00

613.94
1,246.39
998.50 .
1,886.49
19,340.95
1,473.74
11,896.76
745.36
1,450.00
2,041.28
10.00
4,800.00
2,458.75
24,836.18
600.00

1,000.00
1,000.00
36,351.00
750.00
1,000.00
13,000.00
4,000.00
1,000.00
900.00
500.00
1,000.00

774.74
1,045.40
36,351.43
975.00
653.75
12,578.00
3,172.08•
900.00
384.22
111.25

13.94
253.61
1.50
1,643.51
590.95
526.26
1,896.76
504.64
1,550.00
41.28

Plaridel Temple Building Fund...·-----···--·········--·---·-Receipts
Grand Lodge funds:
From Grand Secretary (Exhibit A) $ 248,030.92
Interest and dividends........................
16,288.06
Sale of U. S. Treasury bonds............
90,431.88

1,700.00
1,700.00
243.82
225.26

346.25
422.00
827.92
1,000.00

45.40
.43
225.00

144.78
475.17
300.00
171.39

144.78
475.17
300.00
171.39

46.24
53.73
52.45
137.98

46.24
53.73 .
52.45
137.98

176.62

176.62
897.-06

Totals -·····--·- ··················--··--· $202,599.00 $189,820.03 $21,494.71 $8,715.74
189,820.03

8,715.74

Net under budget....·-········- $ 12,778.97

12,778.97

War Relief Fund:
Refunds ··-············-·················--··-·········
Interest ····- ·-······-······-········-··---··-···--···

12,304.00 $

•Note: Total cost of printing the Ross Digest was..·-····--··-···-·······---··· $5,894.18
Cost of copies sold and charged to cost of supplies sold............ 2,722.10
Cost of copies on hand, July 31, 1948 charged against the
appropriation -····--·------·------········-·-·-·-·········-·-··········-····-··-·-··- $3,172.08

53,343.69

354,750.86

674.34
3,197.50

3,871.84

Total receipts .................................

115.78
888.75

897.06

GRAND TREASURER'S ACCOUNTS
Exhibit C
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August 1, 1947 to July 31, 1948
Cash balance, August l, 1947:
Grand Lod~nds......·-·-·····-··········--··---·-···-··--------···- $ 16,801.59
War Relief
d ...·-·-·······----·····-·········-·-··--·-·-·--··-··-·····24,238.1o

358,622.70

Total to account for....................
Disbursements
Grand Lodge funds :
Increase in Grand Secretary's
operating fund..·- -···------·-···-- ·-·-· $
5,000.00
Reimbursing Grand Secretary.......... 116,279.50
Grand Treasurer's disbursements
(Exhibit A) ·····-································· 192,884.96
War Relief Fund:
Relief ·········-··-··-·······----···········-·············Plaridel Temple Building Fund:
Transferred to Grand Lodge of
Philippine Islands...........·--··-····-·····

$ 411,966.39

314,164.46
790.00
12,304.00

Total disbursements ································-··················-·······-········ $ 327,258.46
Cash balance, July 31, 1948:
Grand Lodge funds:
Crocker First National Bank............
American Trust Company................__
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust
Co. ·······-·-·--··---·························-·········
Anglo California National Bank....
Special fund:
Bank of California...............................

28,446.37
50.00
7,179.98
21,711.64

57,387.99
$

27,319.94 $

84,707.93

Exhibit D
Statement of Assets and Liabilities
July 31. 1948
Assets
Cash in banks:
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts (Exhibit C) ...... $
Grand Secretary's bank accounts....·--······-·-············-

57,387.99
10,435.99 $

67,823.98

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Accounts Receivable:
Grand Lodge of Scotland........·-····-······-····---·········
Grand Lodge of Illinois.....-··-··-··-··-······-··-·····-··-·
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123..·-···-····---··-··-·---··-·
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59....·--··--·-·-··-··-·-·--

1,000.00
64.01
3,250.00
12,578.00

-----

Investments: (Exhibit F)
Bonds ·····-······--··-········-·····-·-·-·-····-··----········-··· 471,165.00
Stocks ·····-··-··-··-····-············-···-··-········-·--········-· 339,850.00
Special fund held for future disposition by Grand Lodge:
Cash in Bank of California (Exhibit E) ...._.............
27,319.94
Investments (Exhibit F>--···-··-··--·-····-··-·-····-····· 131,187 .50

16,892.01

811,015.00

158,507.44

Total assets ··················-···-··--··-····-·-········-··--··················-··· $1,054,238.43
Liabilities
Due George Washington Masonic National Memorial fund:
Per capita levy..·--··-····-··················-····-··-···············$ 25,770.45
Initiates contributions ······-·-··--··-········-·················
3,256.00

315

Exhibit F
List of Investments
July 31. 1948
Grand Lodge Funds:
Bonds:

$ 10,000 Southern Pacific Company, 4* %, 1981..............- ....... $
135,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, Series F, 1957..................................
Increase in redemption value of F Bonds....................
10,000 U.S. Bonds, series G, 2*%, 1953....·-··-··--···-···-·-··
40,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2*%, 1958.......- .............
30,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2*%, 1959................•...•.
90,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2*%, 1960......................
183,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21/.:i %, 1959-62..............................
6,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2* %, 1965-70..............·-······-·····

.

Co.rt
9,565.00
99,900.00
2,700.00
10,000.00
40,000.00
30,000.00
90,000.00
183,000.00
6,000.00

29,026.45

Total bonds ·············-············-····-··-·······-···················-··· $ 471,165.00
Stocks:
$ 33,985 Masonic Temple Ass'n of California.....................- ....... $ 339,850.00

Net assets ··--··-··-····-········-··--··-··-··-····-··-·····--··-··-··· $1,025,211.98

Total investments ............................................................ $ 811,015.00

1, 1947..................·-········-··················-····-··-············· $ 835,332.25
Add: Tr"ansfer of War Relief Fund to General Fund......·-········-···
158,507.44
Excess of revenue over expense: (Exhibit A)
Revenue received:
By Grand Secretary........................ 211,552.26
By Grand Treasurer................_.....
16,719.94
228,272.20

Special fund held for future disposition by Grand Lodge:
$ 31,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21(4 %, 1959-62.............................. $ 31,000.00
100,187.50
100,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2*%, 1964-69........·-········-···-····

Total liabilities ···-····-····-··-··-··············-··-····-··············-··-·······

Ba~~~!taAugust

Less, expenses and appropriations....·-··-··-······-··

196,899.91

Excess revenue ···--········-··-···-·-··--··-····-··-·-··-·-·---

31,372.29

Balance, July 31, 1948.•..............•..---········-··-····-··-·······-··-········-· $1,025,211.98
Exhibit E
War Relief Fund
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August 1. 1947 to July 31. 1948
Cash balance, August 1, 1947........·-··- ······-···-····-··-···--·-···-··-· $
Receipts
Interest from bonds............·-··--···-·---·-···3,197.50
Refunds through Boards of Relief.·-········---····-···525.00
Refunds from individuals-··-····-··-··--··-··-··--···-·
149.34
Total receipts ····-·············-··--······-····-··-··········---··--··-··-···
Total to account for....·-······---········-····-··-··-·-··-··-··-··-··· $
Disbursements
Relief:
Boards of Relief..·---···-···-····-··-·-····-··---···-···- $
290.00
Individuals ····-········-·-············--··-····-··-···············500.00

24,238.10

3,871.84
28,109.94

Total disbursements ·····-··-········-··-··-··-················-······--·-·- $

790.00

Cash Balance, July 31, 1948 ,transferred to General Fund.-......... $

27,319.94

Total investments ·································-··-····················· $ 131,187.50

316

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND AUDIT

the Masonic Homes report shows that this fund had a balance of $23,427.20
as at July 31, 1948.
The Masonic Homes also holds several pieces of real estate for the account
of the Endowment Fund. Whenever a sale is made, the proceeds will be
transferred to the Endowment Fund.

September 24, 1948
Grand Lodge F. & A M. of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the accounts and records of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1948 and submit herewith the
following statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1, 1947
to July 31, 1948.
Exhibit B: Statement of Endowment Fund Assets, July 31, 1948.
Exhibit C: Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund, July 31, 1948.
Exhibit D: Statement of Income and Capital Accounts, for the fiscal year
ended July 31, 1948.
•
Schedule 1: Securities on hand, acquired prior to July 31, 1947.
Schedule 2: Securities received and purchased during the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1948.
Schedule 3: Statement of securities redeemed and sold.
COMMENTS
Cash:
The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
All interest and dividends due from investments and savings bank accounts
were received and turned over to the Masonic Homes. The total income received by the Homes from the Endowment and Luckenbach Funds amounted
to $79,061.79.
Securities:
Securities on hand that were acquired in prior years are listed on Schedule 1. Securities received through contributions and bequests, ,a nd bonds
purchased during the current year are listed on Schedule 2. Securities redeemed and sold during the current year are listed on Schedule 3.
Bonds purchased are listed at actual cost. Donated securities are listed at
market value when received, or at a nominal value of $1.00 if the actual value
is unknown.
Certified lists of securities held for the account of the Endowment Fund
were received from the Anglo California National Bank. The records were
checked to these lists and the securities not listed were found in the office
of the Grand Secretary and were inspected by us.
Increase in Fund:
The combined assets of the Endowment Fund and the Luckenbach Fund
show the following increase for the current year:
Amount of funds, July 31, 1948..·-·········-·····-····-······-························-$3,390,643.35
Amount of funds, July 31, 1947...·-··················-··································· 2,989,976.31
Increase ----··-··-··-···---····-··-·-··-··--·-··-··-···-·-··-··-··-' 400,667 .04
The increase is accounted for as follows:
Cash donations and bequests.---····-·····-··-··-··--········-·····-·-·-* 296,,134.80
Securities by donation and bequest..........·-··-··············----··-··-······-··· 101,519.16
Net profit on securities sold..................·-····························-··--··'··········
3,013.08
Increase ·--··-·-··-·-···-·····-··-:.-··---······-··-·--------·-·······* 400,667.04
Other Endowment Assets:
The books of the Masonic Homes carry the records of the Harriet C.
Wadleigh Endowment Fund. After the death of the beneficiaries of this fund,
the remainder will be transferred to the Endowment Fund Schedule B-9 of

317

Certificate:
We certify that, in our opinion, the attached statements present fairly the
financial condition of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund as at July 31
1948.
,
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS, PARKER & COMPANY
Certified Public Accountants.
Walter A. Parker
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT-ENDOWMENT FUND
Exhibit A
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
(No:t Including "Luckenbach Fund"-Exhibi:t C)
August 1. 1947 to J'uly 31. 1948
Cash in banks, August 1, 1947...........................................- ................... $ 147,578.84
Receipts:
From the Grand Secretary:
Donations through Lodges.........:........$ 187,588.26
Donatio!IB f:om individuals and
3,851.21
organizations ···-·······························
405.00
Memorial donations -·····-··-···············
Bequests ·--··- ··························-··-······· 104,290.33 $ 296,134.80
Securities sold and redeemed
(Schedule 3):
Bonds ·······-······-····························-··· 814,695.01
267.20
Stocks ···············-······-·························
19,173.70
Notes receivable ···-·························
Real estate ........................................
278.60
From Masonic Homes for annual
amortization of bond premiums.....·-···········-···········
Received for account of the Masonic Homes......·-···

834,414.51
990.20
93.36

Total receipts ···································-··················-······-·-······-··· $1,131,632.87
Total to account for·--··-·····-·---··-·--------·--·--·· - 1,279,211.71
Disbursemenis:
Bonds purchased (Schedule 2>-·-······-··············-·-··· $1,140,000.00
Payment to Masonic Homes for interest on
securities which was added to redemption value
2,375.93
Total disb~ements ···············-····································:.............. 1,142,375.93
Cash in Savings Accounts, July 31, 1948
Anglo California National Bank..·-······-····---··-···
Security-First National Bank, San Luis Obispo..

125,449.48
11,386.30 $ 136,835.78

r
318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit B
S:tatemen:t of Fund Assets
July 31, 1948
Endowment Fund:
Cash in savings accounts:
Anglo California National Bank...........- ...............$ 125,449.48
Security-First National Bank, San Luis Obispo
11,386.30 $ 136,835.78
Securities-at book value:
(For details refer to Schedules 1 and 2)
Bonds ...................................................................... 3,075, 786.66
Stocks ...................................................................... 100,517.65
Miscellaneous ........................................................
12,5_89.12
Total ....................................................................$3,188,893.43
Deduct, reserve for amortization
of bond premiums......·-······················-····-·······
1,707.07
Net book value of securities.................................................. 3,187,186.36
Account receivable-Liquidating dividend
delayed in transit................·-······················-··············-···················
900.00
Total ............................................................................................ 3,324,922.14
Deduct, amount due to Masonic Homes..........................................
93.36
Total Endowment Fund assets................................................$3,324,828.78
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund:
(For details refer to Exhibit C)
Cash in savings account..........·-··············-···············
56.68
Securities ·······························-···································
65,985.65
66,042.33
Total ....................................................................
227.76
Deduct, amount due to Masonic Homes................
Total Luckenbach Fund assets......................................·-·····

65,814.57

Grand Total Endowment Fund Assets........·-······················-····-··-··· $3,390,643.35
Exhibit C
Statement of "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund"
July 31, 1948
Cash in Savings Account:
Anglo California National Bank................................·-··········-······· $
Securities:
Bonds:
$ 9,000 Northern Pacific Railway Co.
General Lien, 3%, 2047 ........................ $
7,290.00
16,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957.._..................$ 11,988.00
Increased redemption
value ............................
226.80
12,214.80
1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1954 ..........................................................
1,000.00
35,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1957 ·····························-···························
35,000.00
Stocks:
100 shares West Penn Electric Co., Class A.....
10,480.85
Book value of securities........·-······-··-··········-·······················
Total assets ............................................................................ $
Deduct, due to Masonic Homes General Fund............................. _...
Net Luckenbach Fund cash and securities..·-······················-··-··-··· $

319

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit D
S:tatemen:t of Income and Capital Accounts
For :the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Income Account:
Income received from Endowment Fund investments:
Endowment Fund ........................................................ $ 77,989.61
Luckenbach Fund ......................................................
2,083.86 $

80,073.47

Deduct, annual amortization of bond premiums
restored to endowment capital..................·-··········-·····················

1,011.68

Total income transferred to the Homes general fund ...................... $

79,061.79

Capital Accounts:

Endowment

Balance, August 1, 1947........-.................$2,924,161.74 $
Additions to Funds:
Donations and bequests:
Cash (Exhibit A) ..·-··············-········· 296,134.80
Securities:
July 31, 1948 value
(Schedule 2) ..........$ 95,457.86
Current payments on
notes after receipt
513.43
Securities received
and sold during
current year .......... 5,547.87

Luckenbach
Total
65,814.57 $2,989,976.31

296,134.80

Total value securities
received ..................................

101,519.16

101,519.16

Total donations and bequests

397,653.96

397,653.96

Profit from sale of securities:
Proceeds ............................................
Less, book value..........·-···················

834,414.51
831,401.43

834,414.51
831,401.43

Net Profit·······················-···········

3,013.08

3,013.08

Total Additions ....................

400,667.04

400,667.04

Balance, July 31, 1948..............................$3,324,828.78 $

65,814.57 $3,390,643.35

56.68

65,985.65
66,042.33
227.76
65,814.57

Schedule 1
Regular Endowment Fund Securities Acquired Prior :to July 31. 1947
On Hand July 31, 1948
Book Value
Bonds:
$ 3,000 Central Public Utilities Corp., 20 year income, 51h%,
1.00
1952 ···············································································-··.D· $
6,143.20
5,000 Chicago Board of Education, 4% %, 1954..·-········-··-·······
1.00
1,000 Madison, Inc. cumulative income, 1957·--··········-··-·--.D
300 U. S. Savings Bonds, series D, 1949............................. _...D
252.00
1,609.50
2,175 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1954............·-··············-··-···
2,978.50
4,025 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1955..............·-······-··-·········
100,344.00
135,600 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956............·-··-··············--···
375 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957 and 1958..................D
277.50
Increased redemption value of D and F Bonds............
5,297.47
30,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1953........................
30,500.00
15,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1954...................- ...
15,000.00
75,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955..............·-·······
75,000.00
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957........................
100,000.00

320

100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1958...- ..- •. - ...........
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥.,%, 1959...................... ..
10,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21/4 %, 1956-59..............- ............... ..
318,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2~ %, 1959-62..................................
265,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2lh%, 1964-69................................ ..
290,500 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2lh%, 1965-70.............- ...................
480,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2lh%, 1967-72..................................
100 University Masonic Temple Ass'n., 2nd mortgage, 3%,
1949 ···--------·--------··---········--·------------·--·----··-·----·--··--··.D

100,000.00
100,000.00
10,668.75
318,545.94
272,596.88
290,500.00
485,562.50
1.00

Total bonds acquired prior to July 31, 1947 .......................... $1,915,279.24
"D": Donated; *No interest received
Shares of Stock: (donated) ·
16 Bakersfield Masonic Temple Ass'n....._ ..................................... • $
200 California Packing Corporation................................................... .
100 Container Corporation of America............................................. .
20 Electric Power and Light Corporation, pfd ............................. ..
1 Granada Masonic Temple Ass'n................................................. •
10 Healdsburg General Hospital pfd............................................... •
20 Masonic Temple Ass'n. of California........................................... .
7 Needles Masonic Temple Ass'n................................................... •
531 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% pfd...............................................
96 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 51,2% ~fd...........................................
1 San Gabriel Masonic Temple AsS n ........................................... •
1 Santa Anna Masonic Temple Ass'n............................................. •
200 Standard Oil of California............................................................. .

13.00
4,200.00
1,529.21
2,990.00
1.00
1.00
2.00
1.00
14,951.25
2,430.00
1.00
LOO
5,500.00

Total stocks acquired prior to July 31, 1947.......................... $

31,620.46

*No dividends received
Book Value

Miscellaneous Securities, etc.:
Fraternal Death Certificates:
9 Al Malaikah Auditorium Co. @ $100 par................$
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund....................................................
1 Masonic Temple Ass'n. of Sacramento @ $100 par
1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2@ $20 .par......

9.00
1.00
1.00
1.00 $

12.00

Insurance Policies:
$ 500 New York Life Insurance Company................
1,000 Reliance Life Insurance Company................ ..

1.00
1.00

2.00

·

321

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule 2
Securities Received and Purchased During the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1948
Book Value
Bonds Purchased:
$160,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, series A, 2lh%, 1965.................. $ 160,000.00
980,000.00
980,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1960....................

Total bonds purchased.......................................................r.... $1,140,000.00
Donations and Bequests:
Estate of Walter D. Adriance:
Note of A. R. Hummel.. .........................$3,565.68
Less, payments on account................ 113.43
Balance due on note..~ ................................ _... $
$10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G,
2lh%, 1955 ........................................................... .
10 shares, Alexander Film stock. .........................
Estate of W. S. Clemons:
3,275 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956.......... ..
2,200 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1954
27 shares, Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6%, pfd...
28 shares, Deere & Company, 7%, pfd...............

6,520.87

Sundry Items:
Trustees Certificate, Bond and Montgage
Guarantee Company, in liquidation........................................

1.00

Total miscellaneous securities acquired
prior to July 31, 1947........................................................... .

6,535.87

Total Securities Acquired Prior to July 31, 1947.......- .................. $1,953,435.57

10,000.00
250.00

13,702.25

2,511.92
2,200.00
904.50
882.00

6,498.42

Estate of Horace A. Crocker:
Oil and Gas Lease with Western Gulf Oil Co......................- ...
Estate of James L. Goode:
$ 500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series C, 1948........ $
480.00
3,400 U. S. Savin~s Bonds, series D, 1949 and
1950 ................... - ...........................................
3,188.00
400 shares Brookline Oil Company stock. .. .
400.00
75 shares, Pacific Western Oil Corporation
3,712.50
1,200 shares, Title Insurance & Trust Co .........
37,500.00
Estate of William B. Hoeck:
Note of Keith D. and Ellen B. Hall....................... $
Less, payments on account................................... ..

Building and Loan Associations:
California Federal, 2lh~--------------·--------·--·------· 2,500.00
Coast Federal, 2 lh % ···--------------------------··-·-·----· 2,344.54
Puget Sound, series B, 2%.............................................. 274.38
Columbian, in liquidation.............................................. 1,401.95

3,452.25

45,280.50

3,000.00
400.00

Balance due on note...................................................----...........
Estate of J. W. McDonald:
1,370 shares, Adams-Figueroa Investment
Company ............................................................ $
9,590.00
11 shares, Mt. Olivet Cemetery......................
522.50
Estate of Catherine Oliver:
1,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2lh%, 1948.......... $
1,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2%%, 1960............
Estate of Edward E. Lancaster:
125 shares, North American Company............ $
23 shares, Detroit Edison Company................ ..
16 shares, Pacific Gas & Electric Co., com.......
37 shares, Potomac Electric Power Company
20 shares, Security First National Bank of
Los Angeles ................................................. .
4 shares, Security Company ............................
267 shares, Southern California Edison Co.......
500 shares, U. S. Electric Light and Power Co.
15 shares, Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Co...................................................................
33 shares, Wisconsin Electric Power Co........ .

1.00

1,037.50
1,090.00

2,600.00

10,112.50

2,127.50

1,986.41
491.63
564.00
485.63
1,155.00
204.00
7,909.88
1,125.00
598.13
565.13

15,084.81

322

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Stock Dividends Received:
3 shares, Wisconsin Electric from North
American Company (liquidation) ........... .
10 shares, Madison Company, Inc., Class A
from Madison, Inc.·-····················-·············

2.50

September 29, 1948
Masonic Homes of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and records of the Masonic Homes
of Califor:r;iia for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1948, and present herewith
the following statements:

50.88
95,457.86

Total acquisitions for the year 1947-48...... ·-······························-······· $1,235,457.86
Total acquired prior years (Schedule 1)............•.........
1,953,435.57

-------··-=--··•

Statements of Funds .and Properties
Exhibit A: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements August 1 1947
to July 31, 1948.
·
'
'
Exhibit B: Balance sheet, July 31, 1948.
Schedule B-1: Statement of securities owned, July 31, 1948.
Schedule B-2: Statement of Entertainment Fund.
Schedule B-3: Statement of Students' Loan Fund.
Schedule B-4: Statement of Summer Camp Fund.
Schedule B-5: Statement of Post-War Reserve Fund.
Schedule B-6: Statement of t!!harles L. Patton Fund.
Schedule B-7 Statement of C. N. Flint Trust Fund.
Schedule B-8: Statement of C. N. Flint Annuity Fund.
Schedule B-9: Statement of Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Fund.
Schedule B-10: Statement of Verbarg Fund.
Schedule B-11: Statement of Lee R. Talbert Fund.
Schedule B-12: Statement of Perine Endowment Fund.
Schedule B-13: Statement of Building Fund.
Schedule B-14: Statement of Decato Monthly Grant Fund.

Total securities on hand, July 31, 1948......- ........................................ $3,188,893.43
Summary
Bonds:.
.
Acqurred prior years..........·-························-··········· $1,915,279. 24
Purchased during the year 1947-48.......................... 1,140,000.00
Donated and by bequest, during the year 1947-48
20,507.42 $3,075,786.66

Miscell~neous:.

.
Acqurred prior years..................................................
By bequest during the year 1947-48........................

323

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT
48.38

Total donations and bequests............•........ ·-·······-··············· $

Stocks:
Acquired prior years..................................................
Donated during the year 1947-48........................... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31,620.46
68,897.19

100,517.65

6,535.87
6,053.25

12,589.12

Statements of Revenue and Expense
Exhibit C: Statement of Revenue and Expense 1947-48.
Exhibit D: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Decato.
Exhibit E: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina.
Schedule D-1: Detailed Operating Expense-Decato.
Schedule E-1: Detailed Operating Expense-Covina.

Total, as above. ...·-····-······················-················-···-··-········· $3,188,893.43
Schedule 3
Securities Redeemed and Sold During the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Net Proceeds

Bonds:
1,117.50
*$ 1,000 Los Angeles Electric Plant, 41h%, 1952........................ $
1,088.50
•
1 000 Los Angeles Waterworks, 4%%, 1951......................... .
1,200.00
•
1'000 San Francisco Hetch Hetchy, 41h%, 1955................... .
1,032.00
•
1'000 New York City Education, 4%, 1950........................... .
5:000 Trustees Certificate, Bond and Mortgage
2,703.48
Company, liquidating ............................................... .
1,000 Westshore Railroad Company, 4%, 1961......................
666.81
805,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1972........•.........................
806,886.72
Stocks:
41.70
• 1 share, Bank of America....·-······-··-·-··········-··-·····-·······-··-···
93.00
•20 shares, Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce Bldg. Corp.... .
28.20
• 6 shares, Mortgage Service Corporation...- .............................. .
71.13
• 61h shares, Transamerica............................................................... .
Final liquidating dividend, Sotoyome Vineyards................... .
21.08
12.09
North American Company, liquidating dividend....................
Real Estate:
111.24
Arlington Lot No. 3, block B, San Diego County............... 1••••••
167.36
Lot 262, Tract 7741, Los Angeles County....................................
Notes:
19,173.70
Payments on notes receivable........................................................

-----

Total proceeds ·····-··································································· $ 834,414.51
*Note: Received and sold during the current year.

.;:..

l

!

Comments
Cash:
All recorded receipts were properly accounted for and deposited in the
proper funds bank account. The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
·
Securities:
·
All stocks, bonds, ·real estate, life insurance policies and other properties
that had been donated to the Homes by applicants were transferred from the
Masonic Homes General Fund to the Decato Monthly Grant Fund during the
current year. Heretofore, only the income from such property, the proceeds
from sales, and actual cash donations from applicants were turned over to
the Monthly Grant Fund. It is the Monthly Grant Fund that provides the
money to pay the Decato residents their monthly cash allowance.
The securities remaining in the Masonic Homes General Fund are government bonds purchased from the General Fund, and are listed at actual
cost. The real estate is a piece of property donated to the general fund of
the Homes. The bonds were verified by a certified list from the Anglo California National Bank which holds them for safe-keeping.
Other Funds:
The Masonic Homes has numerous separate funds which have been created for definite or special purposes. Some were created by donation and by
bequest to the Homes and others by action of the Board of Trustees to set
aside money that is to be used only for the purpose indicated by the title of
the fund. Full details of these funds are shown on the attached statements
Schedules B-2 to B-14, inclusive.
'
All interest and dividends due on these funds were received, unless otherwise noted on the fund statement, and deposited in the proper bank accounts.

324

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Payments due from the annuity funds in accordance with the contracts and
agreements, were made.
All bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
The securities were accounted for as held ·by the Anglo California National
Bank, or in the office of the Grand Secretary. Those held by the bank were
verified by a certified list from the bank, and those in the office of the Grand
Secretary were inspected.
Total Funds of the Homes:
A summary of all funds connected with the Masonic Homes as at July
31, 1948, is shown below:
Hornes General Fund ···········--··~···-··~·-·····-•··-··--···-······-······-··•$2,707,012.98
Entertainment Fund ···-············-··-····- ······-··········-·······························
23,430.25
Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund..................................................
64,628.02
Summer Camp Fund ·····-··--····-··-:··--··- ··-··- ···-···-············-·············
26,905.88
C. N. Flint Trust Fund ·····-················-··--···:··-······································· 200,699.25
C. N. Flint Annuity Fund....·-··-·····-···-··-··-···················:··········-··-··-···
85,805.59
Verbarg Fund .......:=--··-····-····---··--··-··--··-········-··-······-········-:......
14,924.05 ·
Lee R. Talbert Fund -···-··········-·-···············-····················-·····-·············
11,422.06
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund......................
20,485.30
Building Fund ···---····--··-·····-·- ·······-········-··- ··-······-··- ············-······· 417,934.33
Decoto Monthly Grant Fund ..................................................................
66,693.09
Beverly Management Association ···································-···········-······
1,238.46
Covina Special Fund ·-·····--···- ····- ···..·-········-··-···--···-··-··········-·--····
6,142.25
Decoto Special Fund ···········- ········-······- ····-···-···-················--··- ······- ·
2,141.39

Exhibit A
STATEMENT OF •C ASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
August 1. 1947, to July 31, 1948

General Fund:
Cash balance, August 1, 1947..·-··········--··-····-··-··--··-····-··-····-·-·.$ 223,163.13
Receipts:
Revenue Accounts:
$25.00 Homes contribution5-<:urrent
year ······················································
$ 314,425.00
Prior years $25.00 contributions ......
625.00
Endowment Fund income:
Endowment Fund ·····--··-·············$ 76,884.57
Luckenbach Fund ............................
1,937.50
78,822.07

,..

Contributions t~ough Lodges:
For Decoto ·········-········-··-···-·····-·· $
For Covina ......................................::
State aid for Covina ...:........................
Care of employees' children - Covina ·····----····················-······················· ·
Income and refunds on donated
property ..............................................
Interest from general fund investments ..................................................
Refund of disbursements:
Outside relief, not eligible for
Homes Relief, reimbursed by
Grand Lodge ................................
Funeral expense ..............................

ReJe~~~ ;~;ni:;pe;;-5;·;········-·-·-······-····:·--········-·-··-··········-···············$3· 549•461'1
Sufficient examination and tests were made of the revenue and expense
accounts to satisfy ourselves as to the .g eneral correctness of the accounting
records. All interest due on the investments was received. The Endowment
Fund interest received is in agreement with the Endowment Fund audit report. Detailed distribution of the operating expenses of the two homes was
made by the Decoto and Covina offices and were accepted as correct after
we had verified amounts by totals. Disbursements were made by checks and
supported by proper vouchers.
The 1947 annual returns from the Lodges were audited and the $25.00
contributions due thereon, plus the contributions received during the first
three quarters of the current year, agreed with the amount turned over to
the Treasurer of the Hornes by the Grand Secretary. There was no per capita
levy this year.
The operations of the Masonic Homes resulted in a loss of $26,796.07 for
the current year, as shown by our Exhibit C. The overall expenses increased
$90,000.00 over last year, while the revenue decreased $145,000.00. The main
loss of revenue came through the elimination of the per capita levy and a
decrease of $75,000.00 in the $25.00 contributions.
Certificate:
We certify that, in our opinion, subject to the foregoing comments, the
accompanying statements present fairly the financial condition of the
Masonic Homes of California as at July 31, 1948, and the results of its operations for the year 1947-48.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS, PARK.ER & COMPANY,
Certified Public Accountants.
WALTER A. PARKER.

325

l

I

Miscellaneous revenue:
Farm rent-Decoto ·······-·················$
Canteen-Decoto ..............................
Sundry income--Decoto ................
Fann sales--Covina ........................
Sundry Incom~ovina. ...............
Total cash from revenue accounts ..........................................
For Account of Trust and Reserve
Funds ......................................................
Proceeds From Sale of Bonds................
For Special Purposes:
Beverly Management Association....
Decoto Special Fund ............................
Covina Special Fund ..........................

4,771.25
5,042.80

9,814.05
871.45
600.00
1,375.87
9,793.85

1,450.00
6,982J79

8,432.79

300.00
3,300.29
140.60
2,069.12
198.47

6,008.48
$ 430,768.56

316,248.75
163,029.23
850.00
16,599.67
500.00

17,949.67

Total receipts ................................

927,996.21

ToUi:l to ·a ccount for......................

$1,151,159.34

General Fund:
Total cash to account for (from page 1)

$1,151,159.34

326

Disbursements:
Expense' Accounts:
Operating expense-Decoto ............. .
Operating expense-Covina ............. .
Funeral expense (fully refunded) .. ..
Outside relief ($1,450.00 refunded) ..
Outside care of children ....................
Expense on donated property ......... .
Canteen expense-Decoto ................
Administration and general expense:
Taxes ···---····-··-··-··-················-$
Insurance ......................................... .
Refunds of $25.00 contributions
prior years ....................................
Social welfare agents
Northern district ......................... .
Southern district ..........................
Reimbursed Grand Lodge-Secretary's and assistants' salaries
Pensions-retired employees ......... .
Trustees' expense..............................
Auditing ........................................... .
Safe-keeping of securities..·-·········
Telephone and postage ................. .
Office supplies and printing ......... .
Notary and recording fees ........... .
Sundry expense ................................

Total disbursed for expenses ..... .
For Account of Trust and Reserve
Funds ···-··-·v·····-··-··-··-·--··--······-··--··
Special Purpose Funds:
Beverly Management Committee......$
Covina Special Fund ..........................
Decoto Special Fund ......................... .

Properties: (at cost-no depreciation taken)
Land, buildings and equipment-Decoto.............. 1,788,838.98
Land, buildings and equipment-Covina................ 606,093.98

$ 262,724.21
134,863.38
6,572.49
10,628.20
810.00
302.05
3,197.04

Stores and Supplies:
Deco to ..............................................................................
Covina ..............................................................................
Assets Held in Separate Funds:
Entertainment Fund (Schedule B-2) ........................
Students Loan Fund (Schedule B-3) ···············-·······
Summer Camp Fund (Schedule B-4) ......................
C. N. Flint Trust Fund (Schedule B-7) ....................
C. N. Flint Annuity Fund (Schedule B-8) ..............
Verbarg Fund (Schedule B-10) ................................. .
Lee R. Talbert Fund Schedule B-11) ···········-···········
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment
Fund (Schedule B-12) ·········································-···
Building Fund (Schdule B-13) ................................. .
Decoto Monthly Grant Fund (Schedule B-14) ....... .

10,708.29
10,662.80
1,950.00
3,414.80
2,799.40
4,000.00
3,600.00
1,932.73
800.00
750.00
651.21
1,572.85
120.17
11.31

-----

327

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Assets Held in Trust:
Endowment Fund:
Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment
Fund (Schedule B-9) ....................
Real estate held for sale ..................
42,973.56

Decoto Residents' Deposits ................

$ 462,070.84

Total assets ....................................

361,849.51
1,424.94
19,113.47
5,000.00

25,538.41

Total disbursements ........................

849,458.76

Cash balance, July 31, 1948....................

$ 301,700.58

Exhibit B
Balance Shee:I:
July 31. 1948
Assets:
Cash:
Treasurer's bank accounts -·-·-·-·-··-··-·--·.$ 266,584.41
31,213.24
Operating accounts-Decoto and Covina ............... .
2,000.00
Revolving funds-Decoto and Covina ......................
1,902.93 $ 301,700.58
Deposits in transit ···-··············----·································

-----

Receivables:
Luckenbach Fund ..........................................................
Endowment Fund ..........................................................
Flint Trust Fund ..........................................................
Monthly Grant Fund ·····················--············-···············
Employees ..................................................................... .

227.76
93.36
143.57
50,014.83
36.75

Investments:
Securities (Schedule B-1) ..........................................
Real estate ·····-········-················--···································

212,172.50
2,700.00

-----

50,516.27

214,872.50

14,368.40
2,146.51

16,514.91

23,430.25
64,628.02
26,905.88
200,699.25
85,805.59
14,924.05
11,422.06
20,485.30
417 ,934."33
66,693.09

-----

23,427.20
126.00

2,394,932.96

932,927.82

23,553.20
8,372.92

31,926.12
$3,943,391.16

Liabilities, Reserves and Capital:
Liabilities:
Money received for special purposes:
Beverly Management Associa1,238.46
tion -----:·--·-···-···-·-··-·-·*
6,142.25
Covina Special Fund ......................
2,141.39 $
9,522.10
Decoto Special Fund ..................... .
· Due other funds:
13,430.25
Entertainment Fund ....................... .
521.88
Summer Camp Fund ..................... .
Building Fund .................................. 245,174.33
2,875.68
262,002.14
Decoto Residents' Deposits ........... .
Total liabilities ···············-··-·········
Reserves: (per contra)
Assets held in separate funds ............
Assets held in trusl...............·-······-···
Capital:
Balance August 1, 1947 ..................... .
Add:
Securities and real estate donated
1947-48 ············································
Charge to DecotoMonthlyGrand
Fund of prior year expense on
securities and real estate
transferred ···············-···············
Total ................................................... .

$ 271,524.24
932,927.82
31,926.12
2,930,048.90
16,368.50

11,693.80
2,958,111.20

964,853.94

328

Deduct:
Transferred to Building Fund ........
Donated securities and real estate
transferred to Decato Monthly
Grant Fund ....................................
Devaluation of securities and real
estate transferred to Decato
Monthly Grant Fund....................
Book value of securities and real
estate sold, the proceeds having been deposited in Decato
Monthly Grant Fund._·············Excess of expense over revenue
1947-48 (Exhibit C>·-···················

329

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule B-3
150,000.00

Statement of Students' Loan and Scholarship Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948

62,280.50
10,518.65

1,503.00
26,796.07

Balance, August 1, 1947..........................................................................
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments .......................................... $ 2,126.77
Less: reserved for amortization
of bond premiums ......................
17.76
2,109.01

$ 65,645.66

227.75

2,336.76

Total ............................................................................................
Deduct:
Disbursed for educational purposes ..............................................

67,982.42

Balance, July 31, 1948..................................... :········································

$ 64,628.02

Contribution ............................................
251,098.22

Balance, July 31, 1948....·-··-··········-···

2, 707,012.98

Total liabilities, reserve and
capital .........................................

3,943,391.16

Schedule B-1
STATEMENT OF SECURITIES OWNED
GENERAL FUND
July 31, 1948
Bonds:
$ 80,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956................................ $ 59,200.00
100 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957............................... .
74.00
25 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1959....................... - ...... .
18.50
Increased redemption on value of F Bonds....... .
2,880.00
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1957................... . 100,000.00
50,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lh%, 1958................... .
50,000.00
Total securities ................................................................. . $212,172.50
Schedule B-2
Statement of Entertainment Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947.......................................................................... $ 21,767.92
Receipts:
Contributions ···-----····--·--·····----········-·--···-·----·····-···---- $ 10,163.86
10,413.86
Interest from investments........ ·-····-··--····-·····--·-·····
250.00
Total ........................................................................ ..
Disbursements:
Decato Christmas ...........................-........................... $ 2,122.25
2,245.04
Decato Entertainment ·············-········--······-······-----Covina Entertainment ................................................
4,384.24

32,181.78

Balance, July 31, 1948....................................................-·--·····-·········

$ 23,430.25

Composition of Fund
Due from Masonic Homes general fund .............................................. $
$10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1958............................

13,430.25
10,000.00

Balance, July 31, 1948..............................................................- ............. $

23,430.25

3,354.40

-----

Composition of Fund
Cash in Anglo California National Bank............................................ $ 2,885.24
Securities:
Bonds:
$ 5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970...... $ 5,100.00
4,000 Southern California Gas Co., 31/4%,
4,270.00
1970 ······························································
5,150.00
5,000 Southern Counties Gas Co., 3%, 1971....
74.00
100 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1955... - ...
7,400.00
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956....... .
365.70
Increased redemption value F bonds... .
5,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2112%,
5,000.00
1955 ..............................................................
10,500.00
10,500 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21/4%, 1959-62... .
5,000.00
5,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h %, 1965..........
Preferred stocks:
14,000.00
527 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% ..
125 shares Southern California Edison Co.,
2,500.00
4.48% ........................................................... .
125 shares Southern California Edison Co.,
2,500.00
4.32% ........................................................... .
Total cost ....................................................
Less, reserve for amortization of bond premiums

61,859.70
116.92

Net book value.....:.................................~---··········-··-·-···
Balance, July 31, 1948..............................................................................

61,742.78
$ 64,628.02

8,751.53
Schedule B-4
Statement of Summer Camp Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July n, 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947............................................................................ $ 26,361.88
Add:
Interest from investments ............................................................
544.00
Balance, July 31, 1948...............·-··-:--·-··-······-·-········-··-······-···.:..

$ 26,905.88

330

J

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Composition of Fund
Securities:
$34,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956.......... $ 25,160.00
Increased redemption value of F bonds....
1,224.00
·
Due from Masonic Homes general fund. .......................- .................
Balance, July 31, 1948.•- .............-·-··---··-··---··--------·--·..···--·--··......

26,384.00
521.88
$ 26,905.88

Schedule B-5
Statement of Post-War Reserve Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947..........................................................................
Deduct:
Alterations and repairs to buildings-Covina $ 55,176.17
Alterations and repairs and replacement of
equipment-Decoto ............................................
2,564.22
Transferred to Building Fund•............................
212,248.00

Balance, July 31, 1948...________________...............................................

$269,988.39

100,000.00

150,000.00

Cash-in the Masonic Homes general fund. ..................- ..........-...

62,248.00

Total assets transferred to Building Fund......................................

$212,248.00

Balance, July 31, 1948......................---··-·-.....--..--·----·-··-·*Transferred to Building Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank.......................................................
Securities:
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956..........
Increased redemption value of F bonds
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1955 ..................................................................
5,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1958 ..........._....................................................
27,500 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2l/4%, 1959-62........

Balance, August 1, 1947..........................................................................
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments............ $ 5,242.10
Rental of house......_ ........................._......................
575.00

$200,699.25

Total ............................................................................................
Deduct:
Taxes on property........................................................
430.19
Upkeep of property....................................................
180.00
Water and power..........................................................
108.38
Transfer of net yield from investments to Decato Monthly Grant Fund......................................
5,098.53

$206,516.35

Balance, July 31, 1948..............................................................................

$200,699.25

5,817.10

5,817.10

$ -0--

$ 50,000.00

Schedule B-6
Statement of Charles L. Patton Reserve Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947..........................................................................
Deduct:
Transferred to Building Fund•......................................................

Schedule B-7
Statement of C. N. Flint Trust Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948

269,988.39

*Transferred to Building Fund

Securities:
$ 50,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1958 ..............................................................
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1959' ..............................................................

331

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$ 53,389.78
53,389.78

$ -0-$ 3,289.78

$ 7,400.00
200.00

Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank......................:...............................
Other Assets:
Improved real estate (assessed value)........................................~...
Securities:
Bonds:
$ 10,000 Los Angeles Mountain Park Co. defaulted .......:..............................................
1,650.00
125,675 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956..
92,999.50
9,990.00
13,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957
2,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1959
1,628.00
Increased redemption value of F
bonds ....................................................
4,556.23
8,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1954 ............._ .............................:..............
8,000.00
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1955 ............................................................
10,000.00
18,300 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1957 ............................................................
18,300.00
7,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1958 ..........................................................
7,500.00
4,157.50
4,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965-70
Stocks:
160 shares, Security First National Bank
of Los Angeles........................................
8,850.00
500 shares, Transamerica Corporation)
167 shares, Bank of America, N.T.S.A.) ....
12,895.06
253 units, Security Company of Los
Angeles .:..................................................
7,590.00

Total assets ......................................................................

10,000.00
5,000.00
27,500.00

50,100.00

Total assets transferred to Building Fund..........................

$ 53,389.78

Deduct Due:
Decoto Monthly Grant Fund....................................
Homes General Fund.........................- ........................

$ 12,345.06
5,480.00

188,116.29
$205,941.35

5,098.53
143.57

5,242.10

Balance, July 31, 15M8...- .........................................................................

200,699.25

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Schedule B-8
Statement of C. N. Flint Annuity Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947.............................................- ...........................
Add:
Interest from investments..·-······································-·······-············

$ 84,960.85
1,844.74

Total ............................................................................................
Deduct:
Payments on contracl.....................·-································-··-···········

$ 86,805.59

Balance, July 31, 1948..·-··-··-············-:-······-··-··-·····················:-.......
Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank..·-·······-·········:··-······-····-·············
Securities:
$42,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956........ $ 31,080.00
10,100 U. S. Savings Bonds, Series F, 1957........
7,474.00
Increased redemption value of F bonds
1,563.40
1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1,000.00
1954 ·······-························-··-·····························
42,600 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2¥2%,
42,600.00
1957 ·······················-···········································

$ 85,805.59

1,000.00

$ 2,088.19

Balance, July 31, 1948..................·-················································-·······

Total ·····································-·····················································
Deduct:
Payments on contract....................·-··-··························-···················

$ 24,777.20

Balance, July 31, 1948-···-··············-····-··-······-·-··············-··-·····-···
Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank......·-················-········-··-·············
Securities
$10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1960 ·······-····-··················································· $ 10,000.00
10,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965-70......
10,000.00

$ 23,427.20

Total ·····--····························-··-·················································
Deduct:
Purchase of 125 chrome armchairs for Decoto lodge room........
Balance, July 31, 1941L---···-·-····-···:·· ---·-····--···-··-·-····-·······

Schedule B-11
Statement of Lee R. Talbert Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947..........................................................................
Add:
Dividends and interest from investments.........................- ...........

83,717.40

Balance, July 31, 1948..·-···-················-··········-··········--········-··············· $ 85,805.59
Schedule B-9
Statement of Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947......................·-···-············································ $ 23,983.87
Add:
Interest from investments..................... _..................... $ 699.89
793.33
Profit from sale of securities......·-····-······-····-·······
93.44

Balance, July 31, 1948'"""··-········-··-···-··············-··--·············-··········
Schedule B-10
Statement of Verbarg Fund
the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947 ·····-··················-································-·············
Add:
.
Dividends and interest from investments......................................

Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank......................................................
Securities:
Bonds:
$1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1953 ································································
1,000.00
Stocks:
8 shares American Telephone & Telegraph Co...................................................
1,503.74
112 shares Amigos Oil Company..................
1.00
1,176.00
28 shares Bank of America, N.T.S.A...........
53 shares Pacific Coast Electric Co. 51h %
pfd.................................................................
2,133.25
84 shares Transamerica Corporation ........
1,428.00

1,350.00

$ 3,427.20

20,000.00
$ 23,427.20

J

Balance, July 31, 1948....·-············-······················-········-····---········-···
Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Bank..·-··························-··-····-····-···Securities:
Bonds:
500 Long Beach Waterworks, 41h%, 1949.......... $
535.00
Preferred stock:
10 shares Associated Telephone Co., 41h%......
220.00
227.50
30 shares Hunt Foods, Inc., series A, 5%..........
37 shares Southern California Edison Co.,
4.48% ·············-·····················································
1,138.41
37 shares Southern California Edison Co.,
4.32% ............·-·····················································
1,138.40
20 shares Southern California Gas Company,
6% ·············································-·························
765.00
5 shares Union Oil Company of California,
3aM % ....................................................................
525.oo
10 shares United States Envelope Company,
7% ·······················-········-·····································
1,350.00
Seven Letters of Patenl..........·-·-··-····-··-······-·······

Balance, July 31, 1948....·-············-··-·-·· -····•···-·-····-··---····-··-···
$ 17,079.94
406.61
17,486.55
2,562.50

----$ 14,924.05

333

$ 7,682.06

7,241.99
$ 14,924.05

$ 11,018.64
403.42
$ 11,422.06

$ 5,472.75

5,949.31
$ 11,422.06

Schedule B-12
Statement of George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947...........................................- ............................. $ 19,984.29
Add:
501.01
Interest from investments........·-············-··-······················-····-·······
Balance, July 31, 1948·---······-······-··-··-··-··-··-··-······-··--·--·

$ 20,485.30

334

Composition of Fund
Cash:
Anglo California National Ban1L.........·-···-·--····--······-·······-···
Securities:
$10,000 U. S.Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1964-69........ $ 10,371.87
10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 1959........
10,000.00

$

Balance, July 31, 1948....·-···-······--························--··-···········-··········

$ 20,485.30

Schedule B-13
Statement of Building Fund
For :the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947...................- .....................................................
Add:
The Post War Reserve Fund....·-······················-····· $212,248.00
The Chas. L. Patton Reserve Fund........................
53,389.78
From Decato Monthly Grant Fund..........................
150,000.00
From General Fund....·-····'········································
150,000.00
Interest from investments........................................
4,724.54

113.43
20,371.87

$100,000.00

570,362.32
670,362.32

Total ·····················································-·····································
Deduct:
·
Alterations and repairs to buildings-Covina....
130,409.30
Alterations and repairs and replacement of
equipment-Decato ................................................
122,010.10
Loss on sale of securities.............·-········-···············
8.59

252,427.99

Balance, July 31, 1948....·-····----··-·--··-···-··-····-·-·-······-·····

$417,934.33

Composition of Fund
Securities:
$ 10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956......
Increased redemption value of F bonds
10,000 U. S.Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1955 ·····················-········--················--···--·------·
55,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1958 ·······-··-···················································
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%,
1959 ·······-······························-·······················

335

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

$ 7,400.00
360.00
10,000.00
55,000.00
100,000.00

172,760.00

Due from Homes General Fund..·-··-········-····--··········-····-····-··-·····

245,174.33

Balance, July 31, 1948...--··-··-··-··-··········-··-····-··-····-··-··-····-·-···

$417,934.33

Schedule B-14
Statement of Deco:to Monthly Grant Fund
For :the Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1948
Balance, August 1, 1947..........................................................................
Add:
Proceeds of sales of, and income from, property donated to Homes.....·-···································· $ 24,522.67
~on~ibutions by applicants...............................~......
43,672.60
17,380.09
ens1ons ············-···-·····················································
Deceased residents' deposits......................................
4,487.81
Property donated by applicants in prior years
transferred from General Fund........................... .
62,280.50
Transfer from C. N. Flint Trust Fund....................
5,098.53
Total ·······························································-············--···········

$ 88,527.19

157,442.20
245,969.39

Deduct:
Monthly grants to residents............·-····-··-··--·······
Transfer to Building Fund....·-··-···-··-----·-····
Reimbursement to General Fund for prior year
expenses on property transferred above............

17,582.50
150,000.00
11,693.80

179,276.30

Balance, July 31, 1948..·-·····-··-··-····---·----·-·-········-·-·-···
Composition of Fund
Investments:
Securities (see page 2)...·-·······---·-·-··-··-·· $ 83,984.80
Insurance policies (see page 3)........·-·············---·
6,871.97
Notes and contracts receivable (see .page 3)........
20,735.62
Real estate ·············-···-····-··-···-··-··-··········--····················-··- ··-··-···
Due from C. H. Flint Trust Fund.·-····-····-··-················-····--·-····-·

$ 66,693.09

Total ·······--······-····················--··-··································-····-···
Deduct due to Homes General Fund.······-··················-··-··-······-··--·

116,707.92
50,014.83

Balance, July 31, 1948.·-····-·-··--··-·-·-·-··--·········-·-····---··-···
Statement of Deco:to Monthly Grant Fund
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Securities:
Bonds:
$
50 Book Building and Addition..·-·········-·················-·······
. 500 Dominion of Canada..·-··········-········-·······················-·-···
1,525 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957..·--·······················
850 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1958.....·-··-···············
300 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1958..................
50,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1959-62.....- ...................

$ 66,693.09

Total bonds ···--···········································-·--·····-···············

53,761.63

Stocks:
4 American Telephone and Telegraph Company..................
149 Bank of America N.T.s.A..•·---·-······-········-··-········-··-···
5 City Service Company................·-··-··········-······-···················
103 Home Insurance Company of New York........·-·················
5 Iowa Electric Light & Power Co., series A, pfd.................
270 Julian Oil and Royalty Company..·-···-··-········-·················
15 Kern County Building and Loan Association....................
7,160 Kutz Canon Oil and Gas Company..·-··-··--··-····-·······-····
7 A. C. Lawrence Leather Company.·--··-····-·······················
6 Masonic Hall Association of Alameda..·-·····-·--··-·········
2 Masonic Temple Association of Stockton....--··-·················
15 Mutual Savings and Loan Association of Pasadena........
50 North American Oil Consolidated..·--··············-·-····-·····
14 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 51h%, pfd...·-··-··--··-···
1 Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 6%, pfd-········-·············
666 Palmer Stendel Oil Corporation............................................
69 Portland General Electric Power Company........................
4 Southern California Edison Company, 4.48%, .pfd.)
4 Southern California Edison Company, 4.32%, pfd.) ........
5 Standard Oil Company of California....................................
5421h Transamerica Corporation·····-·-····-·········-·····-·····..············
100 Walworth Company ···-··-··--··--················-·······················
100 Westates Petroleum Company·-······················-··················-·
Total stocks ·····-··-····-··-····-·--············-··..··············-···

111,592.39
17.00
5,098.53

$

1.00
500.00
1,128.50
629.00
300.00
51,203.13

682.33
6,547.55
178.13
3,350.00
497.50
33.75
1,500.00
1,432.00
70.00
1.00
1.00
1,500.00
437.50
423.50
33.75
1.00
1,604.25
204.96
295.00
8,633.94
475.00
29.00
27,931.16

336

Building and Loan Certificates:
Pioneer Savings & Loan Association ..........................................
Southern California Building & Loan Association......................

1,492.01
800.00

Total certificates ·······························-·····························

2,292.01

Total securities ···············-······················--·-··-······-······· $ 83,984.80
Insurance Policies:
118,90
Acacia Life Insurance Company ····-···-····-··-······························-:..$
1.00
Companions of the Forest of America ·········-······························ ....
1,000.00
Equitable Life Assurance Society ·············--·-··-··········-·············-~--General American Life Insurance Company ..................................
1.00
Locomotive Engineers Mutual Life Accident Insurance Asso694.00
ciation-2 .p olicies ·············-······································-·······················
1.00
Long Beach Low Twelve Club ·············-····················-·····················
Maccabees Policy written by United Artisans) ..............................
1.00
Marin Mutual Benefit Association......................................................
1.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company-2 policies........................
1,519.23
Native Daughters of the Golden West........................................... ....
1.00
2,000.00
New York Life Insurance Company.........----·······-···········-······:....
1.00
Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company..·--·--···········:...................
1.00
Parnassus Mutual Benefit Fund......·-····-··················-··········-------···
Prudential Insurance Company of America-5 policies................
276.00
245.84
Reliance Insurance Company of Pittsburgh................·-····-···········
1.00
Retail Shoe Clerks Union....·-··-··-······-··············-······-··-·············· ...
~ignal Department Employees Relief Association...................:...:
1.00
ravelers Insurance Company of Hartford..............................- .......
1,000.00
Widows and Orphans Fund:
1.00
1.00
1.00
3.00
California Bodies Scottish Rite-3 policies................·-··-··-······:
2.00
Masonic Lodges-2 policies.........---······-················-···-··················

~;fir~::~::-::::::::::::::~~=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Total insurance policies ·--··-·-·-········-··-·-····-······:-..........$

6,871.97

Notes and Contracts Receivable:
~u~e, Woodrow E. and Marcella E ..·-··-········-······-··········-············-$
rvme, Artis and Annie Lee....·-··-··-····························-··-···········
Gordon, Francis C. and Betty M .......·-········-··-········-········-····-·-~:::
Hoag, George H. and Esther A .....·--······························-··-·-········
Olsen, Katherine E...·---····································································:::
Sharp, Geor~e and Anttle..·-······························-····················-~---·······
Walker, DorlS Jean._········-··-···········-··························-···········-·-·······

444.49
5,16'/.47
7,259.83
999.99
4,941.54
1,733.49
188.81

Total notes and contracts receivable..............·-······-········-·········-$

20,735.62

Total investlnents.......-··-············--··-··············-·············-··-······-··-$ 111,592.39
Exhibit C
Statement of Revenue and Expense
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
Revenue:
$25.00 Homes contributions, current
year-························································
Endowment Fund income:
Endowment Fund ···--·····--··-······----$
Luckenbach Fund ................................

$ 314,425.00
76,977.93
2,083.86

337

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

79,061.79

Contributions through Lodges:
For Decoto ·····································-·····
For Covina ............................................

4,771.25
5,042.80

State aid for Covina...,........·-············-·····
Care of employees' children-Covina..
Income from General Funds donated
.p roperty-net ........................................
Income, less expenses, from donated
property ..................................................
Interest from general fund investments ......................................................
Interest accrued on U. S. Savings
Bonds, series F ......................................
Funerals-excess of refunds over expense ........................................................

9,814.05
871.45
600.00
297.18
776.64
9,793.85
1,279.10
410.39
417,329.45

Total revenue ........................................
Expense:
Operating of Homes:
Decoto (Schedule D)...............-----····-.$ 258,060.04
Covina (Schedule E)..............------··· 132,864.97 $ 390,925.01
9,178.20
Outside relief ............................................
810.00
Outside care of children..........................
863.75
Loss on sale of securities........................
Administrative and general expense:
10,708.29
Taxes ···········································-·········
10,662.80
Insurance ·····················-············:............
Refunds of $25.00 contributions of
1,325.00
prior years ..........................................
Social welfare agents:
3,414.80
Northern district ..............................
2,799.40
Southern District ..............................
4,000.00
Secretary's and assistants' salaries..
3,600.00
Pensions retired employees................
1,932.73
Trustees' expense ................................
800.00
Auditing ................................................
750.00
Safe-keeping of securities..................
651.21
Telephone and postage........................
1,572.85
Office supplies and printing..............
120.17
Notary and recording fees ..................
42,348.56
11.31
Sundry expense................·-·················

-----

444,125.52

Total expense..............·- ···················
Excess of Expense Over Revenue........
Exhibit D
Statement of Detailed Operating Expense-Decoto
For the .F iscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
•operating Expense:
119,487.59
Maintenance ···-··-··-··-·-·-···-·-·-···--....- - - - - - ' 68,315.01
Hospital and medical...........----·-········-····-··-··------10,645.29
Farm and garden.....·-···········•···---·-·-···-----··-8,613.68
6,719.52
~~':i1!1°[ pi~t··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
3,940.76
Paint shop ......................................................................
1,699.38
Transportation ·······-························-··············-···········
42,187.76
General and administrative............---··········-············
Total (refer to Schedule D-1 for details)..............

$

26,796.07

261,608.99

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

339

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm produce consumed..........................................$
Farm rent··-··-··-···················································-·····
Sundry revenue ........................................................
Profit from canteen..·-···············································

3,005.10
300.00
140.60
103.25

Kitchen and dining room:
Repairs and maintenance......:.............$
Expense ................................................. .

-----

-----

Total, as above......·-·····--·················-····-····-········-···········$ 261,608.99
Exhibit E
Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948
•Operating Expense:
Maintenance --=--·-·--·-·--·--··-··-·-··-·~---··----.$ 116,528.87
12,579.64
Administrative expense ............................................. .
Farm expense .........................................~ ......................
6,353.50

329.45
2,069.12
198.47

*Note:
Total operating expense includes:
(a) Cash expenditures, per Exhibit A ........-····-·····----·-··-··-$ 134,863.38
(b) Less expenditures for increase in stores inventory........
70.82
(c) PlJ!e~o~~~~---··--------···-·--····-···--···--··-·-·········$ 134,792.56
Farm produce consumed ..................................................
329.45
Special children's expense paid during 1946-47........
340.00
Total, as above - - ·-__________ _: _ _ ····-·-·-··-' 135,462.01
Schedule D-1
Detailed Operating Expense-Decoto
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948

Total food cost -··---··--··-····-··-··-*
Less, charge to hospital for meals....

91,228.23
20,060.29 $

42,176.47

2,795.00
$ 119,487.59

Total maintenance expense........... .
Hospital and Medical:
Salaries and wages ·--·-·~----·-··--·······-···--·-·--*
Meals to staff and patients..............·-······--····-······-·Medical supplies ···-··-···-·-····-··-····:···-··-··········--··-···
Dental expense ....."......... ·-····························-······:............
Surgical expense ·····-······-··-··································-·······
Eye, ear, nose and throat...·-···-················-··-··············-·

37,748.00
20,060.29
4,069.51
1,372.50
2,910.71
2,154.00

68,315.01

Farm and Garden:
Salaries and wages...·--·--··-·····-·---········-······-··----·--········$
Tools and equipment........ ·-·········-···--·········-··········-··-···
Seeds ................... - ...............................................................
Feed ·····················---··-········--····--·······--·········----············-···
Miscellaneous expense.......·-····--··············-··-············-···

7,655.92
366.59
241.46
503.98
1,877.34

10,645.29

Laundry:
Salaries and wages....·-···········-·········-········-····-···-------.$
Supplies and expense ........................................................

7,306.33
1,307.35

8,613;68

Heating flant:
Salaries and wa'es.··-··-········-··················-·--···················$
Repairs and mamtenance.......................................... ·-···

6,495.14
224.38 •

6,719.52

Paint Shop:.
Salaries and wages... ----··---·······-·-·········-··-·····--··--·$
Supplies and expense....................................................... .

3,086.06
854.70

3,940.76

Transportation:
Salaries and wages.·-······--··-·---··-··--·······----····---·-$
Gasoline and oil. ........... ,-·-·---·········--··-··--·-··-----~-·-···
Tires and repairs..·---······-··-··-··-··-··-·-··----········-··

470.00
694.64
534.74

1,699.38

General and Administrative:
Superintendent and office salaries................................$
Light, heat, power and water..·--·····················-····-·······
Office supplies and printing........................... _...............
Telephone and telegraph..................................................
Repairs and maintena,nce............................................... .
Furniture and equipment..............................·-··-·······-··
Miscellaneous expense........................................,.............

15,227.32
19,047.61
1,170.18
813.04
5,828.28
86.13
15.20

42,187.76

2,597.04

Net Operating Expense-··-··-·-------···--·········-······---~---···

19,571.76
25,917.24
2,167.25
12,263.00
28,406.98
2,902.00

r

1,007.38
18.90
1,768.72

3,348.18

$ 135,462.01

----- $ 132,864.97

Maintenance:
Food:
Groceries ·-·-··----·-· -----··----···-.$
Meat ·················-····················· .. ··············
Fish ..........................................................
Fruit and vegetables............................
Butter, milk and eggs....·-··················Baker's supplies ....................................

Salaries and wages·-·······-·-····-····-·-·········Sundry:
Residents' .supplies ---·-·-····-····--·-··-··-'
Clothing -a nd shoes ................................
Dry goods and bedding........................

3,548.95

$ 258,060.04
Net Operating Expense...............· ·························--·······
•Note:
Total operating expense includes:
(a) Cash expenditures per Exhibit A .......·-····-··--······-······---.$ 262,724.21
(b) Less expenditures for increase in stores inventory......._.__4_,,'-12_0_.3_2
Net cash expense................................................................ $ 258,603.89
(c) Plus non-cash items: Farm produce consumed...... ·-·······
3,005.10

Total (refer to Schedule E-1 for details) ..............
Deduct:
•
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm produce consumed. ....--····--··················-----·$
Farm produce sold outside..·-·································
Sundry revenue ····-·-······--········-······························

611.33
2,736.85

71,167.94

Total Operating Expenses-Decoto...............- .............

$ 261,608.99

340

Repairs to buildings: '
Salaries ································--··-··-··
Plumbing repairs ..............................
Supplies ..............................................
Engineers' stock...............•................

Schedule E-1
Detailed Operating Expense-Covina
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1948

Maintenance:
Care of Children:
Food:
Meat ·················-············--·-····-··-···$
Fruit and vegetables........................
Canned goods....................................
Butter, milk and eggs ..................... .
Bakery goods....·-·······························
Cereals ................................................
Miscellaneous groceries ................. .
Outside meals....................................

8,738.74
3,875.31
2,955.17
7,546.63
1,872.22
382.56
3,306.50
3,306.18 $

~~Pa;tf:s ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'.::::::::::::~

2,279.82
1,169.40

3,449.22

General expense:
Gas, water and light........................$
Automobile expense........................
Sundry supplies and expense........
Equipment expense..........................

5,416.78
2,217.00
3,374.56
4,394.23

15,402.57

Total house and property expense ........................................... .

32,283.31

8,176.26
710.05
1,680.12

10,566.43

Clothing:
Ready to wear....................................$
Cleaning and repairs....................... .
Dry goods and notions......................

2,964.62
488.81
214.95

3,668.38

Laundry:
Salaries -···-··-···-·-······················-···$
Supplies ..............................................
Repairs and replacements..............

2,990.86
1,632.76
348.56

4,972.18

Dormitories:
Salaries ···-·····················-·····-···········$
Supplies ............................................. .
Repairs and replacements..............

13,228.10
1,719.70
5,676.09

20,623.89

1,973.64
538.82
61.35
155.98
496.31
671.89

4,146.95
4,038.76
876.01 $

Total administrative expense....................................
Farm Expense:
Orchard:
565.97
Salaries ··-··-··-···-···-···············-···$
793.70
Supplies ............................................. .
220.09
Tractor fueL ........................................
392.60
Water ..................................................
3,087.08
New tractor.. ·-···································

10,252.96

1,385.53

$

83,752.68

$ 116,528.87
8,695.61
1,024.38
294.71
1,039.74
270.69
67.45
1,187.06

$

12,579.64

5,059.44

Poultry:
Salaries -······-·-·-··-·····-···•··········--·$
Feed ....................................................

242.98
22.53

265.51

Pigs:
Supplies and expense......................$
Replacements ................................... .

312.80
138.00

450.80

Produce:
Salaries ···-·······-··-·························$
Plants and trees................................

95.02
58.39

153.41

General farm expense......................... .

9,061.72

32,776.19

Total maintenance cost................
Administrative Expense:
Salaries ·······················-··········-··--············-··············-·······$
Stationery, printing and supplies..................................
Postage ···································-············ .............................. .
Telephone and telegraph......... - .......................................
Automobile expense.................................................- .......
Freight and express......................................·-··········-·······
Miscellaneous expense ............................................. .

4,382.95
1,946.50
1,221.10
189.95

-----

Total care of children..................
General House and Property Expense:
Power plant:
Salaries ·······--··-······-··-··········-······-$
Fuel oil, waste and lubrications... .
Repairs and replacements..............

4,862.68

-----

Salaries ·-······-··--·-····-···················$
Supplies ···-···:··-··-·;-.......................... .
Repairs and replacements............. .

General expense:
School supplies..................................$
Tonsorial service..............................
Toilet accessories..............................
Automobile expense....................... .

2,749.08
643.13
1,181.67
288.80

Care of grounds:

Kitchen and dining room:

Hospital and medical:
Salaries ·--··--·-·······-··-··········-··-$
Doctors' and dentists' fees ............. .
Medicine and drugs..........................
Other supplies....................................
Outside hospital, X-Ray, glasses,
etc.....................................................
Repairs and replacements............. .

341

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

424.34

Total farm expense......................

6,353.50

Total Operating Expense-Covina........

$ 135,462.01

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

342

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

343

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ENDOWMENT FUND

No.

October 9. 1948

1
2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
30
32
33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64
65
66
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87
89

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California

AUDIT OF 1948 RETURNS
Gentlemen:
An audit of the current 1948 annual returns from constituent Lodges.
up to and including October 8, 1948 has been made.
As determined from the returns. the following amounts are collect~
ible:
Grand Lodge:
Degrees conferred................................ 33.781 @ $1.00 $33,781.00
Per capita:
1948 membership.............................. 183,198
2,158
Less, dues remitted..........................
Net ...................... ----··············----·--·---- 181,040 @ $1.25

226.300.00

Total due... ~ .........- ............................................................ 260,081.00
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer................ $260,081.00
Masonic Homes: ·
Fourth quarter. 1948, $25.00 contributions ........................ 82,950.00
Collected and transferred to Gr. Treas ............................. $ 82,950.00
George Washington Memorial Endowment Contribution:
. Fourth quarter, 1948, $1.00 contributions............................ $

3,153.00

Collected and transferred to Gr. Treas ............................... $

3,153.00

All returns have been received and paid in full in accordance with
the amount shown by the returns as computed.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER A. PARKER,
BURROWS, PARKER & COMPANY

Certified Public Accountants.

j

Mern1948
1947
1946
1945
Name
bership 1944
California .................. 539 $ 607.00 $1,226.50 $ 512.00 $ 386.75 $ 509.50
99.00
100.00
170.00
95.00
91.50
Western Star ............ 142
67.50 2,409.50 1,325.50 1,355.00
Tehama ...................... 677
949.40
91.00
50.00
10.00
Benicia ..................................... 210
336:50
106.50
173.50 315.73
219.00
Tuolumne .................. 251
181.50
248.50
85.00
160.00
183.50
Corinthian ................................ 360
340.50 328.50
401.00 426.50
91.00
San Jose .................... 499
117.00
242.00
Yount ............................................ 452
79.00
151.50
60.50
62.00
111.50
Nevada .................................... 161
63.00
89.50
83.00
25.00
114.00
Temple ....................................... 176
154.50
114.00
Eureka ..................................... 290
159.50
185.00
130.00
163.00
69.50
La Parfaite Union.... 123
14.00
Mountain Shade ...... 48
322.00
768.00
719.50
San Joaquin .............. 703
700.00 1,155.80 1,095.00
168.00 483.50
Washington .......................... 699
938.50 1,034.50 1,163.50 1,038.00 1,301.10
Hawaiian ................................ 479
404.50
395.00
418.50
281.00
236.00
Occidental ............................. 753
66.02
33.35
85.67
31.75
Madison .................... 300
175.00 2aa:ifo
181.00
171.50
98.00
Mariposa .................... 194
22.00
12.00
59.50
Georgetown .............. 62
7.50
715.50
619.50
290.00
El Dorado .................. 223
8.00
19.00
47.00
76.50
Trinity ........................ 106
258:00
398.15
302.50
248.50
388.50
Golden Gate .............. 620
31.50
7.00
Gold Hill .................... 99
59.50
29.50
53.50
57.00
50.00
Ophir .......................... 60
San Diego .................. 893 2,100.75 1,643.45 3,382.00 2,124.98 2,312.50
89.00
51.00
30.00
30.00
Howard ...................... 250
157.50
195.00
220.50
90.50
110.00
Santa Cruz ................ 416
776.00
235.71 1,152.71
141.88
199.55
Sacramento ............................ 707
246.00
246.51
65.00
425.68
Martinez .................... 355
334.00
512.00
721.10
666.50
561.00
Los Angeles .............. 749
Hiram ......................-..................... 70
327:50 325:00
73.00
337.00
245.00
Mount Moriah .......... 416
74.75
Crescent ...................... _.............. 164
10.00
10.00
15.00
Texas .......................... 47
14.00
50.00
62.00
Forbestown ........................... 85
33.00
36.00
27.00
Illinoistown .............. 81
115.50
48.50
73.50
109.00
119.00
Suisun ........................ 180
131.00
32.00
54.50
Volcano ...................... 50
167.60
142.50
143.10
52.00
141.10
Santa Rosa ........:....... 539
Union .......................... 663 1,050.00 1,206.00 1,488.50 1,300.00 1,424.10
69.00
53.50
Gravel Range .......... 66
18.00
84.00
39.00
146.50
104.50
Plumas ·····------·--------· 171
Live Oak .................... 1018 1,405.00 1,221.00 1,064.50 1,177.00 1,100.00
180.50
144.50
162.00
138.00
157.50
Natoma .................................. 168
64.00
32.50
Amador ...................... 80
Forest . ----------------·-·--· 40
827.00
846.60
413.50 1,154.00
699.35
Morning Star ............ 570
65.00
125.00
Enterprise ·--------------- 275
17.00
16.00
67.25
41.00
Bear Mountain ........ 66
70.00
83.00
Calaveras ....................... 104
156:50
a:i::5o
70.00
32.00
95.50
Humboldt .................. 403
16.00
8.00
Ione ···-·-·····-·······-····-·-- 93
18.00
58.00
24.50
Yolo ·····--······-············· 72
17.00
17.-00
2.00
14.00
59.00
Vesper ........................ 216
Naval .......................... 1124 2,071.91 2,057.00 1,643.13 2,161.15 2,116.40
18.00
7.00
7.00
Rose's Bar ................ 34

344
No.
91
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112

ll3

117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name

Membership 1944

North Star ......~ .........
St. Helena ............... .
Henry Clay ............. .
Horn1tos ....................
Yosemite ..................
Clay ........................... .
Oroville ......................
Lexington ..................
Arcata ........................
Pajaro ........................
Chico ..........................
Summit ......................
Eden ..........................
Concord ....................
Fidelity ......................
Alamo ........................
Sotoyome ..................
Table Mountain ......
Lafayette ..................
Hermann ..................
Visalia ....................... .
Nicolaus ....................
Woodbridge ............. .
Sincerity ....................
Vacaville ................... .
Valley ........................
Pacific ....................... .
Crockett ....................
Curtis ..........................
Grafton ......................
Franklin ................... .
Oriental ..................... .
Vitruvius ................... .
Abell ..........................
Eel River ................. .
Lassen ........................
Molino ........................
Woodland ..................
Keystone ....................
Harmony ....................
Excelsior ................... .
Alameda ................... .
Rt:;d".Y'ood City ..........
MISSIOn ··············· ··-···

Elk Grove ..................
Drytown ·····-·············
Antioch ......................
Phoenix ....................
Mendocino ............... .
Petaluma ..................
Russian River ......... .
Arbuckle ................... .
Clear Lake ............... .
Sierra Valley ............
Claiborne ..................
Evening Star ............
Keith ..........................
Oakland ................... .
Northern Light ....... .
Marin ..........................

62
116
77
96
383
85
296
429
217
326
411
44
343
315
548
315
179
122
208
200
496
102
162
95
180
83
589
583
74
89
127
388
115
249
215
202
158
251
25
19
522
144
516
690
137
38
277
636
123
317
110
79
52
38
53
45
164
928
83
516

18.00
151.50
21.00
37.00
89.00
49.50
33.00
42.50
45.00
31.50
15.00
115.15
50.00
67.00
100.00

1945

1946

1947

1948

No.

52.00
2.00
45.00
345.00
54.50
14.00
125.00
40.00
348.35
26.50
44.00
178.60
197.50
475.50
150.00

23.00
4.00
90.50
175.00

84.50
13.50
91.00
183.50
77.00
209.00
250.00
142.00
187.50
183.75

190.06
41.00
56.00
208.00
60.00
55.50
250.00
237.25
73.00
19.26

192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203

155.00
245.60
140.00
190.50
808.50 1,037.00
50.00
24.00
32.00
175.00
260.00

342.50

203.00
182.00
46.00
71.00
65.50
109.00
87.00
10.00

22.00
215.00
339.50
65.00
221.50
61.00
74.00
11.00
21.80

148.00
53.50
16.00
19.50
109.12
520.57
36.00
21.50

381.00
8.00
120.00

345

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

335.00
16.00
219.25
114.00
46.00
193.93
159:36
207.25
214.50
492.00
440.00
232.00
228.00
189.00
243.00
138.50
168.50
139.00
171.00
38.50
86.50
38.00
81.00
171.00
172.00
171.00
1,248.00 1,370.50 1,153.50
18.00
24.00
71.50
72.75
135.25
27.50
9.50
195.50
177.50
2.00
61.00
75.50
294.00
258.50
292.50
6.00
26.00
22.00
34.00
63.50
72.00
28.50
595.50
288.50
643.00
48.00
115.00
4.00
367.50
379.50
379.50
160.50
141.50
92.00
106.00
88.50
199.00
24.00
37.00
77.00
218.00
588.05
206.93

57.00
21.00
282.00
691.50
742.00
475.00
14.00
75.00
57.00
26.00
263.75
345.50
513.00
147.50 855.00 1,722.50
314.50
216.00
101.50
136.50
253.50
6.00
7.00
87.00
163.00
103.50
9.00
703.25 1,611.19 1,407.96 1,408.59
82.50
81.00
37.75
13.50
173.00
88.00
105.00
69.00
64.00
38.00
41.00
73.00
44.00
22.00

45.00
20.00

26.00
20.00

422.00
61.50
627.00

73.50
189.00
32.50
489.05

44.00
830.50
31.00
537.50

58.00
42.50
46.00 .
634.50
12.00
351.50

204

205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228

229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
261

Name

Membership 1944

Santa Barbara ......... .
Ferndale ....................
Mountain View ........
Buckeye ................... .
San Simeon ..............
Wilmington ..............
Hartley ......................
Truckee···-·················
Silveyville ............... .
Pentalpha ................. .
Confidence ................
Salinas ....................... .
Olivet ..........................
Stanislaus ................. .
Anaheim ....................
Rio Vista ....................
King David's ............
Friendship ............... .
San Benito ................
So. San Francisco ... .
San Buenaventura ..
Oak Grove ................
Doric ..........................
Monterey ....................
Mosaic ........................
Speranza Italiana ... .
Downey·····-···············
Inyo ............................
Roseville ....................
Bakersfield ................
Brooklyn ....................
San Mateo ................
Athens ........................
Solano ........................
North Butte ..............
Covelo ........................
Janesville ................. .
Calistoga ....................
Hope ........................... .
Surprise Valley ........
Hills Ferry ................
Guadalupe ............... .
Colusa ........................
Santa Ana ..................
Magnolia ....................
Eucalyptus ................
Alcatraz ....................
Laurel ........................
Pomona ......................
Fresno ....................... .
Alturas ......................
Adin ............................
Landmark ................
Reading ......................
Welcome ....................
Lodi ·········-·················
Penrhyn ....................
Evergreen ..................
King Solomon's ........
Tuscan ................... :....

307
102
302
137
110
512
224
98
144
570
48
461
107
541
388
146
404
675
143
260
384
609
494
244
167
331
458
154
317
719
592
393
144
596
173
63
131
105
119
74
142
121
148
538
374
384
606
220
370
632
151
84
108
192
190
351
142
598
488
81

143.00
29.00
26.00
12.00
106.00
668.50

1945

1946

1947

513.00
35.50

373.50
37.50
278.00

509.50
33.00

28.00
582.00

184.50
742.00
10.00
83.00
14.50
1,362.13
89.00
143.00
8.00
301.00
256.50
334.00
284.50
703.95
11.25
162.00
1,200.00
281.00
363.00
228.00
80.00
479.50
407.35
166.00
63.25
1,527.88
361.56
363.50
59.00
601.00
88.00

1,146.00 1,225.50
81.50
143.00
205.50
24.00
63.00
243.50
898.00
120.50 204.00
239.50
246.00
281.50
199.50
155.00
109.75
51.00
26.00
122.00
618.00
860.00
297.00
290.00
180.00
138.50
96.00
153.00
77.50
98.50
257.00
487.50
402.75
671.50
77.50
186.50
64.30
259.50
158.10
213.00
203.50
294.00
38.00
101.00
722.50
25.50
65.00
24.00
14.00
6.00
10.00
51.00
105.00
41.50
127.50
28.00
259.75
538.25
61.50
109.00
206.50
52.50
32.20
119.75
143.50
112.50
7.00

31.00
65.00
22.00

201.80
142.50
160.00
188.00
692.00
135.00
374.50
220.25
2.00

39.50
244.50
8.00
762.50
875.75
25.00
376.50
212.00
579.50

60.00
104.00
35.00
400.00
114.00
35.00
61.00
344.00
648.00
7.00

5.00
146.50
300.00
610.50
59.00
232.00
171.50

1948

441.50
38.00
281.00
109.00
204.00
248.50
15.00
851.00 596.00
15.00
64.00
67.00
351.85
1,530.75 1,462.50
83.00
89.00
317.00
199.00
144.50
50.00
564.50
778.65
381.50
406.00
343.00
322.02
293.50
449.50
387.50 455.00
84.50
61.50
136.00
151.50
1,302.00 1,015.50
297.00
152.00
102.50
83.50
179.00
163.00
145.00
103.50
364.50
351.50
811.00
712.00
333.00
103.00
294.00
201.00
793.50
90.00
315.50
204.00
372.50
411.50
89.00
77.00
564.52
467.50
91.00
7.00
74.50
139.00
13.00
84.50
71.50
34.00
104.00
95.00
413.00
200.50
59.25
47.00
133.00 1,085.16
891.50 1,025.00
232.50
309.05
405.00
242.00
273.50
380.30
339.50
285.75
33.50
168.00
77.50
151.00
54.50
30.70
47.40
500.00
274.50
169.00
323.50
408.10
25.00
273.00
243.00
171.50 496.50

346
No.
262
264
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Name

Membership 1944

1945

347

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1946

1947

1948

285.00
243.00 332.50
Lompoc ...................... 172
7.50
65.00
232.00
230.50 687.50
603.50
Hesperian ·········-······· 331
124.50
156.50
78.00
148.50
118.50
Orland ·············-········· 153
North East ................ 53
49.00
44.75
15.00
Galt ...................................................... 71
14.00
Durant ........................ 559
558.50
401.00
438.22
566.00
707.15
Olive Branch ............ 271
24.50
80.00
121.00
86.00
Snow Mountain ........ 34
27.00
16.20
10.00
20.00
Pasadena .................... 517
343.00
251.00 315.00 383.00 970.00
Anchor .................................... 483
741.06 1,282.65 1,308.54 1,419.29 1,250.00
Arroyo ........................ 127
100.00
59.00
146.00 246.00
98.00
Oakdale ...................... 158
39.00
184.00
119.50
23.00
96.50
418.00
Selma .......................... 197
72.00
97.50
255.75
So. California ............ 515
769.00
796.00 1,015.50 1,160.00 1,139.00
Hanford ...................... 197
382.00
364.00 440.50
522.50
822.70
Madera ................................... 229
131.01
140.00 202.50
243.50
96.00
Mount Shasta ............
10.00
7.00
56.00
2.00
71
Callayomi ..................
25.00
58
South West ................ 346
108.00 361.75 318.50 341.75
348.00
San Miguel ................ 54
39.75
20.00
55.00
88.50 232.00
Paso Robles .............. 216
154.50 218.50
92.00
Winnedumah ............ 170
126.00
258.00
108.00 332.75
358.75
Maxwell ..................................... 62
20.00
47.31
Elsinore ...................... 155
181.00
155.00
172.00
142.00
76.00
East Gate .................. 849
312.00 661.50 541.50 1,065.45 699.00
Santa Paula .............. 307
73.00
116.50 614.50 550.00
621.75
Los Gatos .................. 263
102.10
234.60
276.61
252.70
382.23
Orange Grove .......... 233
178.00 232.00
228.00
101.00
151.00
Traver ........................ 136
59.00
91.00
62.00
Mt. Jackson .............. 119
Silver Gate ................ 1045 1,631.00 1,072.50 1,981.50 1,207.65 1,039.50
Dunsmuir ............................. 281
226.50
188.00
191.00 407.58
222.18
Liberty ......................................... 299
17.00 312.00
75.00
194.50
231.00
Redlands ....:............... 414
152.00 455.50
403.00
265.50
Ontario .......................................... 320
243.00
571.00
163.00
249.50
220.00
Santa Lucia .............. 142
148.50
201.00
282.50
352.50 220.50
Porterville ................................ 443
154.00 957.50 562.00
869.50
807.50
Reedley ...................... 154
22.00
Azusa .......................... 218
288.00
180.00
166.50 214.50
Ashlar ........................................... 250
93.00
226.50
156.00
141.00 245.00
Santa Monica ............ 354
300.00
383.00 290.00
660.00
Monrovia .................................... 275
45.00
37.00
359.00
179.97
Delona ........................ 214
271.00
289.50
224.25
213.00
260.50
Sisson .......................... 106
4.00
17.00
40.50
65.50
Los Banos .................. 135
104.00
74.00
22.00
257.10
105.00
Tehachapi .................. 186
129.50
224.25
331.00 237.50
266.50
Temescal .................... 117
223.50
137.00
144.50
163.00
133.50
Norwalk .............. _............... 214
186.'/8 300.00 435.62
444.90
339.50
Sanger ........................ 277
191.50
270.00
248.00
206.00
190.50
Fallbrook ............................... 108
56.00
45.00
68.00
Emmanuel ........................... 77
31.50
29.00
Hollenbeck ................ 1108
109.00 1,093.50 917.10
135.00
85.00
South Gate ................ 668
796.50
849.50 889.50
840.00 1,549.50
Alisal .......................... 127
124.00
135.50 145.00
107.00
120.00
Alhambra .................. 588
192.00 306.00 1,521.40 335.25
338.25
Whittier ................................. 601
929.00
704.50 1,112.40 566.05
Corona ........................ 482
134.00 474.50 951.00
649.00
401.00
Consuela .................... 216
27.52
165.64 332.46
141.17
Needles .......................................... 343
317.00
465.00
385.50 641.00
Long Beach .............. 570
361.00
392.50
700.00
441.00 351.50

No.

Name

Membership 1944

1945

328 Redondo .................................... 414
125.00 194.25
329 Vallee de France ...... 117
116.00 245.00
330 Kilauea ..................................... 241
633.00 674.00
331 Pacific Grove ............ 208
141.00
76.50
332 San Pedro ·····-··········· 517
637.00 1,066.61
18.00
68.50
333 Alta ............................ 75
334 Covina ........................ 293
171.00 324.50
537.39 945.50
335 West Gate .................. 954
927.30 758.00
336 Fruitvale .................... 904
119.15
159.00
337 Carquinez ................ 188
15.00
338 San Jacinto .............. 96
77.00
339 Fullerton ................................ 380
148.50 283.58
341 Oxnard ....................................... 353
230.50 400.75
343 San Fernando .......... 443
249.50 654.25
344 Starr King ................ 543
10.00
38.00
345 Brentwood .............................. 120
630.25
331.75
346 Palo Alto .................... 621
110.86 217.00
347 McKinley .................. 451
169.25
348 San Bernardino ........ 667
706.00 870.50
349 Sequoia ...................... 1020
233.29 563.50
351 Palestine .................... 581
413.00 501.25
352 Sunset ................................... ..... .. 406
35.00
33.00
353 Pinole . .................................. _.... 171
319.00 367.94
354 Presidio ...................... 542
355 Hollywood ................ 1083
201.50 376.00
356 Mill Valley ................ 395
65.00
14.00
357 Buena Park .............. 187
465.75
785.25
358 Golden State ............ 883
46.00
80
8.00
359 ~ Loyalton ............. ,. .......................
121.00
244.00
360 San Francisco .......... 313
87.75
361 Fort Bragg ................ 123
114.50
362 Charity .. ......................... _......... 135
96.00
155.00
363 Berkeley .................... 648
365 Willits ........................ 142
44.00
63.75
366 Las Palmas ................ 893
869.00
633.18
367 South Pasadena ...... 559
424.00 658.00
368 Unity .......................... 577
501.00 963.00
369 Ocean Park .............. 463
. 370 Amity ·········-············· 467
67.50
371 le Progres de
915.00 246.00
l'Oceanie .........•...... 608
124.00 178.50
372 Gardena ............................... 278
192.00
165.25
373 West Los Angeles .... 369
47.00
374 Jewel .......................... 167
208.00
125.00
375 Richmond .................. 548
163.50
159.50
376 Francis Drake .......... 294
152.00 177.50
377 Artesia ·-·----·········-···· 136
378 Mizpah ...................... 433 1,020.00 999.00
175.00 434.00
379 Fillmore .................... 218
13.00
380 Huntington Beach .... 295
293.00
381 Oceanside ...........•...... 266
327.94 371.00
382 Highland Park ........ 557
247.00
165.35
383 Orosi ......................................... 126
314.00 388.50
384 El Centro .................. 363
69.00
77.00
385 Dinuba .................................... 259
484.24
387 Coalinga . ............. _.. .................. 318
766.00
388 Parnassus ................................ 702
242.34 604.28
389 Palos Verdes ............ 722
31.00
53.00
390 Imperial .. ............................. 110
127.00
42.25
391 East Belt .....•.............. 80

_

1946

1947

1948

300.00
350.00 338.00
240.00
264.00 225.00
571.00 384.00 506.00 ·
144.25 149.00 159.50
1,256.33 1,246.25 1,384.50
145.00
87.50 139.50
280.00 310.75
409.50
1,229.50 1,712.50 1,123.00
476.50 287.00 400.00
155.00
167.00 135.75
63.06
116.00
179.50 200.50
419.00
238.25
603.15 433.00
398.10 503.50 738.00
229.50
129.50 482.08
64.00
56.00
837.50 900.00 1,251.00
536.75 319.00 295.20
1,158.88 335.69 672.90
676.50 861.00 907.50
276.50 402.00 484.50
321.00 979.75 835.00
68.00
36.50
51.00
167.50 237.00 538.00
1,826.50 328.50
381.50
218.50 353.00
178.75
121.00 174.25
699.25 743.25 2,498.30
40.50
35.00
17.00
126.00
206.00 488.00
34.50
77.50
109.50
116.00 132.00
388.00 216.31
403.50 1,045.50 919.00
1,274.00 789.00 1,080.50
782.50 1,204.50 1,173.50
496.50
1,096.00 620.87
159.50
351.00
1,177.50
137.50
191.00
141.50
434.00
251.60
230.50
1,031.00
444.00
252.00
435.50
346.00
681.50
149.00
347.50
499.70
638.64
103.00
32.00

654.00
132.00
205.00
185.00
291.00
290.04
410.43
397.50
124.00
329.25
373.00
393.50
157.50
208.65
369.50
566.11
103.00
8.50

718.00
202.25
249.00
171.00
223.50
273.50
326.00
2,018.07
537.50 "
28.00
357.25
401.10
617.00
335.00
255.50
300.00
332.50
385.82
171.00
8.00

348
No.
392
393
394
395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440

441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454

Mem1947
1948
1946
1945
N ame
bership 1944
909.60
2,032.00
West Lake ................ 990 1,708.33 1,757.50 1,980.00
312.00
452.00
227.00
418.50
Balder ·········-············· 482
368.50
710.00
558.00
545.50 1,005.50
University ................ 598
413.00
302.00
175.00
326.00
118.00
Turlock ...................... 309
62.00
354.50
331.50
368.50
17.00
Apollo ·········-············· 444
140.00
835.74 1,563.00
Rising Light ···-········· 911
654.02 1,474.40 1,273.95
171.50
144.00
101.50
Fraternity .................. 435
106.50
191.75
Burlingame .............. 573
439.35
387.00 1,690.00 1,498.50 1,088.50
108.00
132.00
54.00
Bay View .................. 529
49.00
159.75
221.50
100.85
227.50
222.31
Brawley .................... 174
153.00
847.50
474.09
487.00
Yerba Buena ............ 765
397.00
484.00
175.50
97.00
Glendora .................... 131
16.00
6.00
934.00
914.50
941.50 2,041.05
Moneta ·················-··· 743
204.00
20.00 2,756.45 1,040.00
Burbank ·········-········· 573 1,226.50 1,258.60
197.55
320.92 400.50
330.50
La Mesa ···--··············· 418
84.50
44.00
173.50
124.50
Sierra Madre ............ 105
11.00
40.00
823.50
354.00 552.85
516.50
Honolulu ·····-··········· 328
330.50
155.00
165.00
165.00
197.00
Charter Rock............ 360
154.00
50.00
125.00
108.00
115.00
Perris ·····-···-·········-··· 141
80.00
119.00
380.00
85.50
Calexico .................... 160
287.50
340.50
561.50
436.50
332.00
Arlin·g ton ·····-··········· 380
807.50
866.31
860.50
Silver Trowel .......... 363
829.77
216.00
433.00
499.50
457.80
178.50
Lindsay ...................... 207
204.00
215.50
414.25
188.00
46.00
Clovia ........................ 352
387.00
419.50
406.00
360.50
351.50
Elysian ...................... 476
218.75
171.00
63.00
123.00
207.00
Upland·········-··········-·· 178
142.00
114.00
121.00
104.00
Kerman...................... 82
35.00
671.00
556.00
365.50
227.00
274.00
Inglewood ................ 626
306.50
237.50
513.50
Eagle Rock ................ 440
397.00
347.00
401.25
189.00
591.70
171.50
York ............................ 310
156.05
833.00
398.50
10.00
574.50
500.00
Exeter ........................ 190
247.50
180.00
261.00
53.00
Holtville .................... 121
149.00
189.00
113.00
61.50
341.50
Midway ...................... 463
92.50
14.00
Chino Valley ............ 108
97.00
210.00
210.00
235.00
200.00
San Dimas ................ 162
100.00
18.00
18.00
56.00
Pittsburg .................... 249
12.00
10.00
157.07
201.08
127.00
McCloud .................... 105
261.75
344.50
137.00 451.50
Alpha.......................... 473
150.00
208.00
67.00
70.00
69.00
67.00
59.00
Hammonton .............. 62
29.00
4.00
84.00
Maricopa .................... 178
35.00
176.40
231.50
133.65
154.80
Fairmount ................ 486
94.95
162.50
48.00
Claremont .................. 108
166.00
136.25
94.00
174.00 211.00
182.00
206.00
382.00
Lancaster ···---··········· 214
122.00
145.00 133.50
132.00
110.00
Acacia ·················-····· 58
5.00
36.00
111.50
Tyrian ........................ 146
99.00
150.50
167.00
293.00
131.50
222.00
Standard .................... 357
177.00
414.00
160.25
Coronado .................. 327
93.75
293.25
529.75
535.30
840.76
905.37
696.75 1,008.25
Blackmer ·····-··········· 1088
298.00
138.75
284.50
101.00
108.00
Schofield ·····-··········· 244
Carpinteria .............. 111
125.00
189.00
178.50
621.00
166.00
Wilshire .................... 538
625.76
833.50 1,162.00 498.00
347.00
48.00
31.00
La Puente .................. 121
27.00
112.00
160.00
Torrance .................... 341
132.75
278.00
116.25
208.00
238.00
265.00
Mount Diablo ............ 257
170.00 203.00
366.50
452.00
408.74
256.00
332.00
Park·················-········· 472
557.00
656.50
505.52
186.00
340.00
Van Nuys ·····-··········· 550
450.90
558.50
498.90
289.90
345.10
Montebello ·········-····· 461
788.50
San Pasqual .............. 418
796.50
850.00
182.00
248.50
339.00
422.00
Bethlehem ................ 309
207.00
726.22
184.50
113.00
166.80
122.00
Crocker ···················-· 366
80.50

349

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Name

Membership 1944

1945

1946

1947

1948

106.00 238.00
241.50
211.50
455 Golden West ·······--·· 547
162.00
252.00
370.50
222.00
77.00
457 Ramona ...................... 440
532.00 760.80
993.50
349.75
357.50
458 Henry S. Orme ........ 651
77.00
51.50
46.50
46.00
41.00
459 Riverbank.................. 123
92.00
93.50
86.00
108.00
148.50
460 Mount Oso ................ 267
316.50
308.50
175.50 437.50
192.00
461 Argonaut .................... 415
738.00
765.50
369.00
634.90
390.08
462 Paul Revere .............. 534
35.00
32.00
6.50
463 Morgan Hill .............. 135
119.50
96.00
192.50
87.50
81.70
464 Alta Vista ·····-··········· 273
289.00
381.00
121.80 239.75
104.50
465 Center ........................ 467
498.50
411.50
225.25
309.50
111.00
466 Libertas ...................... 497
262.00
731.00
505.00 380.50
426.50
467 Culver City .............. 299
439.50
267.50
194.00
52.50
468 Rockridge .................. 437
172.00 217.00
195.00 151.00
243.50
469 Yorba Linda .............. 134
810.50
775.00
6.00 1,064.50 760.50
470 Lincoln ...................... 332
411.50 429.00
813.00
782.50
471 Delta .......................... 440
327.00
247.50
198.00
574.00
182.50
472 Maui·········-················· 257
144.44
86.00
57.00
473 Blythe ........................ 119
256.25
135.00
20.50 228.00
2.00
474 Victory ...................... 281
13.00
367.50
112.00 340.00
219.50
475 America ---------··········· 488
132.00
119.00
380.75
36.25
476 Coachella .................. 163
56.00
50.00
57.50
120.00
68.00
477 Temblor ---------··········· 144
154.00
156.00
200.50
186.50
323.50
478 Thousand Oaks ........ 445
242.00
733.50
399.00
260.50
188.00
479 Golden Rule .............. 540
63.00
198.80
262.00
87.00
480 Fellowship ................ 301
199.50
337.00
354.00
138.50
43.50
481 Mt. Davidson ............ 373
731.00
696.00
628.35 413.25
117.25
482 Clarence F. Smith .... 361
783.41
879.64 1,006.77 1,110.95
389.23
483 Bell ····················--····· 542
153;50
95.00
166.00 113.00
49.00
484 Albert Pike ·······-····· 256
44.00
25.00
485 Chowchilla ................ 123
710.66
542.30
229.50 419.93
171.20
486 Caledonia ----------········ 430
386.00
18.00 386.25
94.50
245.00
487 Vallejo ........................ 378
31.00
5.00
44.00
488 Patterson ··----·-···········
93
199.50
173.00
130.00 157.00
103.00
489 East Bay .................... 372
37.23
33.80
490 Corcoran .................... 114
48.00
104.50 162.50
151.00
106.50
491 Woodstock ................ 342
110.00 225.75 283.00
54.00
16.00
492 Garvanza .................. 266
415.13
407.89
194.00
102.50 239.68
493 Atascadero ................ 100
293.50
659.50
346.50
184.50
44.50
494 Acorn .......................... 518
78.50
145.00
73.50
72.50
56.00
495 Lebanon .................... 376
524.00 494.00
592.05
376.50
497 Fremont .................... 457
295.00 284.80
171.50 381.00
198.50
498 Stockton .................... 184
167.50
391.00
172.40 298.50
164.50
499 Capital City .............. 395
100.00
109.00
103.00
96.50
53.00
500 Roosevelt .................. 179
131.50
112.00
170.00
95.00
52.00
501 Westwood .................. 254
190.00
178.00
163.75 210.50
20.00
502 Harbor ........................ 473
118.50 228.00
69.00
33.50
10.00
503 Point ···-····················· 225
754.50
508.00
450.50 955.00
350.00
504 Seaside ...................... 474
77.50
45.00
90.00
46.00
505 Silver Cord ................ 452
506 Mount Olive .............. 993 1,508.80 2,360.50 2,914.50 2,894.50 2,409.50
259.00
151.00
259.00
138.00
198.00
507 El Segundo ................ 267
64.63
133.00
17.00
66
508 Joppa ..........................
268.00
199.20
380.07
244.00
27.00
509 Benjamin Franklin.. 335
168.50
8.00
38.00
91.00
19.00
510 Cupertino ·····- ··········· 143
31.00
340.03
240.25
525.27
216.50
511 Sunnyvale ................ 272
327.00
273.50
191.00
257.00
361.50
512 Palms .......................... 374
137.00
340.00
98.50
453.75
130.50
513 Cahuenga .................. 473
382.50
5.00
187.00
202.50
153.00
514 Argonne .................... 374
424.20
420.44
507.00
523.23
336.75
515 Vermont Square ...... 496
101.00
93.50
73.00
69.50
80.50
516 Taft ............................ 298

350
No.
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

N ame

Membership 1944

Mount Vernon..........
La Jolla ......................
Euclid ........................
Ionic............................
Piedmont ·······-·········
Sunrise ......................
Bellflower ................
Catalina Island ........
George Washington..
Bay City ·········-·········
Covenant ·········-··-···
Beverly Hills ............
Loyalty ......................
Sun Garden ..............
Alexandria ········-······
Smyrna ·······-·············
Azure ·············-·········
Forest Hill ·····-·········
Alexander Hamilton
Seal Rock ..............•...
Utopia ........................
Ascot ..........................
Belvedere ..................
Queen Beach ............
H. M. Stephens ........
Lankershim ..............
Signal ........................
Glendale ....................
Jonathan ....................
San Gabriel ..............
Arcadia ......................
Triangle ....................
Justice .........~..............
Seaport ·········-···········
Lakeshore ..................
Semper Virens ..........
Educator ....................
White Pine ................
Fairfax ......................
Hermosa ···········-·······
Point Firmin ............
Craftsmen..................
Plymouth ..................
E. San Diego.•....·-·····
Pyramid ....................
South Park ................
Foothill ········-····--···
West Adams ···-·········
James A. Garfield....
Searchlight ................
Park Blvd. ................
Chateau Thierry ......
Military Service ......
Francis K. Shattuck
James Madison ···-···
Hillcrest ·················-·
S. W. Hackett............
Fort Crook ...............•
El Cajon Valley........
Sunnyside ·······-·········

221
239
371
643
251
304
317
136
428
324
328
402
402
476
150
87
227
155
211
164
687
324
223
177
327
581
433
588
179
330
293
227
334
220
250
209
335
92
259
282
361
414
339
644
260
408
539
294
206
464
354
316
324
253
313
68
499
136
186
435

194.00
339.00
316.00
198.00
119.50
234.00
407.00
49.00
1.00
141.00
22.00
377.00
206.00
200.50
53.50
29.00
125.50
42.00
300.00
215.00
162.00
120.00
47.00
185.36
23.00
231.50
272.00

40:00

139.25
207.00
66.00
208.50
51.00
113.50
61.00
116.00
608.50
1.00
46.00
313.31
116.75
319.70
163.50
83.00
292.50
76.00
214.50
41.00
43.00
163.00
53.00
268.00
1.00
147.00
566.75

1945

1946

1947

1948

219.50
148.00
436.00
387.00
488.00
362.50
591.00
71.00
417.00
64.00
45.00
531.00
480.50
629.00
189.00

194.00
98.00
360.00
326.00
183.50
296.00

139.50

159.25
32.00
339.50
537.50
203.50
632.95
427.00
112.00
247.50
42.50
443.25
655.60
548.70
248.55
125.00
28.00
11.00
86.00
600.00
105.00
332.00
298.25
231.00
223.50
200.14
584.50
434.00
668.32
142.00
116.50
268.50
204.00
397.50
132.00
120.50
246.81
204.00
67.50
60.00
118.00
743.50
121.75
168.00
553.35
25.00
610.25
231.00
391.00
519.13
262.75
273.66
274.00
104.50
229.00
287.50
5.00
329.75
265.50
371.00
724.00

66.00
66.00
314.00
104.50
367.79
499.75
154.00
178.50
108.08
155.00
643.50
357.50
146.00
261.00
236.00
201.82
444.50
176.50
122.00
146.50
110.50
115.50
129.00
203.50
439.00
659.15
104.00
198.60
157.50
501.00
246.50
110.00
220.05
518.25
278.00
389.50
142.50
137.00
289.00
43.50
322.00
175.50
508.00
790.08

24.00
288.90
71.00
100.00
597.95
233.00
17.00
111.00
41.00
210.00
73.00
502.00
136.00
495.38
368.00
106.00
110.00
64.50
438.28
454.25
488.00
103.50
179.50
279.00
152.00
531.50
143.50
75.00
213.50
245.25
73.00
102.50
364.00
386.00
441.50
167.00
255.96
159.00
381.00
69.50
169.00
230.16
273.50
305.20
469.50
110.20
300.50
272.00
15.00
501.75
74.00
433.00
873.25

573.90
435.00
170.40
474.50
947.00
72.00
172.50
93.00
237.00
594.72
381.00
411.50
115.00
69.50
315.00
1,103.00
600.00
95.00
292.07
384.00
273.50
96.00
799.10
600.50
517.90
143.50
122.50
297.00
300.00
433.50
208.00
106.50
126.50
351.00
131.00
199.50
110.00
572.50
173.00
127.00
531.84
230.50
671.09
204.50
87.23
322.50
383.00
208.50
118.75
198.50
423.00
18.00
389.50
117.00
400.10
823.50

351

Mem1948
1947
1946
1945
bership 1944
98.00 179.50 435.50
145.00
87.00
578 Progressive .............. 435
237.00 570.75 254.50
22.00
93.00
579 Warren G. Harding.. 406
235.00 220.50
169.00 237.00
580 Santa Maria .............. 104
196.00
190.50 291.00
239.50
85.50
581 Security .................... 254
94.00
90.00
89.50
117.50
46.50
582 Rialto .......................... 131
337.50
243.00
103.50 405.00
583 Wasco ........................ 239
175.00 404.50 738.39 500.00
584 Harding ...................... 227
1,670.85 826.50 777.65
443.00
585 Manchester ................ 343
2.00
130.00
193.00
112.57
586 Garden Grove .......... 180
14.00 293.00
175.50
50.00
587 Valley Forge ............ 344
64.00 160.50
86.00
2.00
43.75
588 El Sereno .................. 367
467.00
420.50 482.00 369.75 428.00
589 Kauai ·······-··-············· 126
110.00 121.00 184.00
118.50
590 Compass .................... 212
117.00
591 Escalon ...................... 115
215.50
220.00 377.00
184.00 248.00
592 Tujunga .................... 232
318.25 443.00 929.00 773.75 1,295.00
593 All States .................. 491
291.00 213.50 305.38 364.50
234.50
594 Service ·····-··············· 605
407.50
434.00 475.86
420.25
264.50
595 Alexander G. Bell.... 255
234.00 576.00 718.84 942.00 1,037.00
596 Guardian ...........•...... 658
598 Pearl Harbor ............ 514 1,330.58 1,680.75 1,135.00 1,016.00 1,207.00
244.50 698.50 378.00 751.50 671.50
599 Carmelita .................. 289
752.79 602.50 649.00
311.00 563.15
600 Lynwood .................... 324
90.00
73.50
93.50
127.50
11.00
601 Grizzly ...................... 145
143.06
65.38
147.27
217.00 101.25
602 Melrose ···········-········· 215
185.50 342.50
225.00 199.00
111.50
603 Dimond •..................... 267
221.00 192.00 153.00
70.00
44.82
604 Jubilee ...................... 309
332.75
325.00
333.25 340.91
304.50
605 Glassell Park ............ 377
114.00 289.50 106.00
116.00
607 Sojourner .................. 163
541.17
2.00
306.00 473.46 461.50
608 Granada .................... 631
524.75
202.00 569.00 250.40
127.00
609 Provident .................. 359
47.00
84.50 109.50
64.00
78.00
610 Elmhurst .................... 207
173.00
185.50 120.00 142.00 200.00
611 Canoga ...................... 195
167.50
288.00 169.00
176.00 240.50
612 Temple City .............. 311
102.00 240.50 330.50 346.50 482.00
613 Three Pillars ............ 344
934.25 888.00
351.00 649.00 753.20
614 Larchmont ................ 356
143.04
75.00
101.00
39.00 102.50
615 Hemet ........................ 140
186.50
117.00
125.00
81.00
44.20
616 R. E. Dolley................ 175
77.00
67.00
53.00
2.00
58.00
617 Big Bear ............:....... 121
338.00
200.00 441.00 311.00 327.20
618 Southland ···-············· 275
156.25
200.50 149.95
136.00 126.19
619 Neptune ·······-··········· 236
621.00 334.50 370.75
367.70 471.75
620 Point Loma •............. 426
249.25
272.50
194.00 292.75
147.50
621 The Gardens ............ 363
331.50 275.00 324.50 350.50
446.01
622 Atwater .................... 340
451.00 1,111.50 1,115.80 1,205.00 1,294.00
623 Menorah .................... 647
20.00 104.00
84.00
74.00
157.00
624 Fortitude .................. 179
125.50 239.00 228.00 325.50 224.73
625 Angeles Mesa .....•...... 556
179.00 405.83 314.84 322.50 164.00
626 Chula Vista .............. 289
384.50 384.50 393.00 441.25 305.50
627 . Lamanda Park ........ 208
124.00 371.50 187.50 390.50 538.00
628 Truth ·····-··················· 241
40.00 567.00 454.50 461.25
167.83
629 Fairview ···-··············· 234
84.00
65.50
100.00
630 Ingleside ···················~ 155
114.00
38.00
51.50
126.50
631 Benevolence .............. 270
485.50 706.50 700.00 166.00 1,017.75
632 Normal Heights ........ 476
283.50 1,046.00
144.50 664.00
239.50
633 Poinsettia .................. 510
237.27
131.00 222.00
174.75
46.00
634 Victorville ................ 166
415.50
201.00
250.50
144.00
635 Riverside .................. 316
965.00
203.00 306.50
72.00
636 John Marshall .......... 246
645.00 718.00 720.00 853.00 738.00
637 Palisades .................... 332
112.50
91.50
69.00
102.00
46.50
638 Indian Rock .............. 192
470.00 394.00 382.50
134.00 244.50
639 Composite ..............•• 310
No.

Name

352
No.
640
641
642
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
682
683
684
685
686
687
688
689
690
691
692
693
694

Mero1948
1946
1947
1945
bership 1944
Name
104.00
48.00
130.50
73.00
48.00
Veritas ........................ 113
202.00
313.00
272.50
207.00
28.00
James A. Foshay...... 206
788.75
912.50
602.75
123.50
280.50
La Cumbre ................ 199
347.76
361.50
425.45
Alta Loma ................ 323
57.00 372.50
154.50
209.00
172.00
141.00
135.50
Lomita ........................ 224
90.50
527.00
500.25
472.50
A. F. E. Irwin............ 242
303.00
144.00
172.00
111
96.25
100.00 220.00
Metropolitan
317.00
414.00
129.00
220.00
Hawthorne ................ 264
351.30
393.38 355.88
89.50
289.94
Damascus .................................. 456
451.40
516.60 516.95
510.93
515.77
Florence .................................... 438
548.77
447.26
555.37
537.87
La Brea ...................... 261
153.66
60.50
117.00
101.50
66.00
Menlo Park .............. 170
89.00
227.00
182.25
214.50
216.00
126.50
Crescenta Valley .... 302
19.00
23.00
Fontana ...........- ......... 237
22.00
151.25
117.00 208.50
188.50
Jordan ........................ 299
97.00
249.96
157.50
301.95
175.00
Monte Vista .............. 501
189.15
123.00
166.00
101.00
162.00
Citrol .......................... 163
59.20
919.50 1,291.65
824.00 1,099.00
752.03
John D. Spreckels.... 541
5.00
23.50
44.00
10.00
211.50
Livingston ............................. 97
69.00
45.00
64.00
La Habra .................. 152
34.00
45.00 258.00
65.00
Baldwin Park .......... 115
56.10
93.40
134.00
107.09
95.80
Malta ........................................... 199
3,266.00 1,913.76 1,500.00
Henry Knox .............. 409
311.50
94.60
60.00
Ojai ................................................ 87
214.00
102.00
177.50
2.00
75.00
Kaweah ...................... 93
315.00
199.75
133.00
244.75
Reseda ........................ 208
162.25
296.75
431.00
861.00 1,269.00
315.25
Meridian .................... 388
336.05
431.96
380.88
321.99
San Gorgonio ............ 195
178.47
111.00
111.00
58.00
95.50
94.00
John P. Jarman........ 205
297.00
461.00
390.00
572.00
212.00
Greenleaf .............................. 378
25.00
29.00
20.00
20.00
25.00
San Clemente .......... 57
142.00
585.50
329.00
Laguna Beach .......... 166
98.00
147.50 204.00
23.00
154.50
220.00
Far West .................... 265
1,207.50
306.00
710.00
Los Cerritos ...- ......... 244
464.50 520.00
584.00
991.50
Modesto ...................... 353
53.80
123.00
25.00
238.00 204.50
Willow Glen .............. 234
145.50
129.00
594.00 537.00
Liberal Arts .............. 236
34.00
Altadena .................... 349
271.00
375.73
464.00
645.10
736.06
70.50
26.50
133.00
Canby Cross .............. 111
96.50
106.00
210.50
307.50
229.00
Carmel ........................................ 123
116.50
152.50
102.00
162.50
130.00
Dos Palos ···-············· 90
Barstow ...................... 210
127.85
325.25
502.50
452.84 427.25
22.00
36.00
Redwood Empire .... 58
176.00
132.50
174.00
100.50
Trana .......................... 118
169.25
San Marino ................ 268
120.00 241.50
212.00
500.00
584.50
Albany .......................................... 125
17.00
94.00
122.50
104.50
82.00
173.50
324.50
302.00
Vista ............................................ 175
Oildale ........................ 98
120.50
386.00
56.00
46.00
Pahona --------------------- 51
San Carlos ................ 139
72.00 304.00
Indian Wells Valley 129
342.00
400.00
Travelers .................................. 55
18.75
65.00
Palm Springs............ 61
3.00
113.25
114.18
San Antonio.............. 45
U.D. Meudel .............. 37
U.D. Crossroads ........ 27
50.00
U.D. St. Elmo............ 23
U.D. Wm.D.
Stephens ................ 24
CASH - - - - - · · - -·--··-···-·····-···-··--····-·········-···-··--··.$187,588.26

353

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

1946
$179.525.95

1947
$186,398.55

1948
$187,588.26

INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTORS

1946
40,656

1947
43,708

1948
47,714

TESTAMENTARY GIFTS

Bequests of cash have been received as follows, up to July 31, 1948:
Estate of:
Walter D. Adriance··-···-·-···-··-···---··--··-··---······-·····--·--·-·* 21,748.31
Jacob J. Bazzel.•·--·-··--..-······--····-············-··-·-··-············--··-··--··
215.63
William Begg..- .....:.·-··-·-········-·--···--·-····-··-··--···························-······· 1,000.00
Frank W. Blote..·-···············································-···········-··-··-··········-·······
502.54
Charles W. Buck..·-····~--..···························-···········,.............-······-············· 17,034.52
Carrie Cahen..·-·····-·-·-----·----·--·-········-··-··-··············-·················-·-··-··· 4,800.00
Bertha M. Clark..·-··-·········--··-······················-··-·-··········-··········-·-·-····· 19,839.62
W. C. Clemons.·-··-··--·······-··--·····-···-··-········-··--··-······-··-··-··········· 16,215.61
Norman Cowan..·-··-······-··········-··-··········-··-················-·-··········-··--·····
100.00
Horace Alvin Crocker.............-····-········································-··--··-·········
1.00
Leola A. Davis..........•.......·-··-··············-··-··---·-···-···-········---····--·---· 6,080.35
James Lynn Goode......·-·-····-··················.;················-··········-······----- 49,560.56
William B. Hoeck.·-··-··-··········-·-··--······-··--·--··-..····-··-··~---·--- 3,120.90
Theresa Johnson.--·-·····-··-······-··-··-··--···-·-··----··-·-··-··-··-··-· 10,323.54
Edward C. Kehl.........................................·-··--··-··········-··-··-·-·--- 2,000.00
Emma I. Kuhlitz......•.........·-····-·······-·····-······--··-·---··--·-·--250.00
Edward E. Lancaster.......................................................- ..............-........... 20,123.28
Mary B. MacLafferty...................................................................-...............
558.60
Jennie McComns.............- ..- ..·············-··········-··-··-··········-·--··-··-··-···
500.00
James W. McDonald.......................................-··-······-··········--~---···-········· 12,919.94
Catherine Oliver...-.....•~.--····-··-······~·-··········-·······-··-·······-·········-··-·-· 7,676.32
Rose Rosenberg..·-··············-··-··--····-··········-··-··-······-··-··-······-·---·
514.53
Francis E. Ryder................·-····-···-··-········-··-················--····--··············· 1,062.00
Pauline Schmidt......·-···-···~····-············-········-······················---······-··-···
150.00
Bertha Sherwood...---····-·······-···-········-··---·-··········-······-······-········-····
414.67
Henry A. Thompson.......................-······-··-·--··-··-······-················-··-······· 2,000.70
Tonningsen Trust...·-·-··-------················-····-····-······-··-···---··--·--·-··· 5,886. 77
Henry F. Whittier.·-···-··········-··-··-··-·-···-·-······-··············- ··--········-··-·
957.60
Frederick G. Wranghe1............----··-····-···-·-··--······-··-··-··-·······-··
250.00
Total ···-··-············-····-··-········-··-··············-··-·············-······-·;.............$205. ..
MEMORIALS

John E. Bokelund
Mrs. J. B. Codd
Mrs. E. J. Erler
Charles C. Forgee
Lewis C. Glick
Olaf J. Heinemann
Ida May Jennings
Walter P. Johnson
Thayer Kralik
Timothy W. McCarthy
R. E. McDonald
George P. McNear

Fred E. Pelton
William F. Peters
John F. Petit
Asa F. Potter
Mrs. George E. Riddle
H. R. Riddle
Harold E. Shugart
Ben Silvey
Mrs. Nina Smith
Blanche A. Williams
Mrs. V. H. Willson
David Wisnom

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
HONORABLE MENTION

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per mem~
her. (Such contributions were made by 76 Lodges) :
No.
3
21
26
35
58
128
178
196
201
202
208
214
221
241
242
273
278
279
287
291
320
329
330
332
346
352
358
368
377
378
379
383
409
415
416
424
438
452
467
470
482
483
493
506
522
535
558
566
576
584
585
589
593
598
599
600

Total
Lodge
Members
$1,355.00
TehaIIla .................................................................................... 677
1,301.10
Hawaiian ·············-································································· 479
715.50
El Dorado ................................................................................ 223
2,312.50
San Diego ................................................................................ 893
1,424.10
Union ...................................................................................... 663
1,153.50
Visalia ...................................................................................... 496
1,408.59
Phoenix .................................................................................... 636
248.50
San Simeon .................................:.......................................... 110
351.85
Silveyville ···········-································································· 144
1,462.50
Pentalpha ................................................................................ 570
322.02
Rio Vista.................................................................................. 146
1,015.50
San Buenaventura ................................................................ 384
333.00
Inyo ·························-······························································· 154
1,085.16
Santa Ana ···-········································································· 538
1,025.00
Magnolia···-··-·············•··············································-··········· 374
1,250.00
Anchor ·····································································-············· 483
1,139.00
So. California ........................................................................ 515
440.50
Hanford ·-··············································································· 197
Winnedumah .......................................................................... 170
358.75
621.75
Santa Paula ·····-····································································· 307
1,549.50
South Gate --·······-·-············-··-··-··············-····················-· 668
240.00
Vallee de France..................·-··············-··········-··-··-··········· 117
506.00
Kilauea ···-··············································································· 241
1,384.50
San Pedro ................................................................................ 517
1,251.00
Palo Alto.................................................................................. 621
835.00
Sunset ...................................................................................... 406
2,498.30
Golden State .......................................................................... 883
1,173.50
Unity ·······-·······························································-·············· 577
326.00
Artesia ···-····-··········································································· 136
2,018.07
Mizpah --················································································· 433
537.50
Fillmore ····················································-···························· 218
617.00
Orosi -·-·-····-··-························-···················•··-··················· 126
823.50
Honolulu ·-··············································································· 328
807.50
Silver Trowel ···················-··················································· 363
433.00
Lindsay ·······-··-··············································-··············-······· 207
398.50
Exeter ...................................................................................... 190
132.00
Acacia ·············································-······································· 58
850.00
San Pasqual ···········-······························································· 418
731.00
Culver City ............................................................................ 299
810.50
Lincoln ···················-······························································· 332
731.00
Clarence E. Smith ...............................................................• 361
1,110.95
Bell ............•............................................................................. 542
415.13
Atascaderi .............................................................................. 100
Mount Olive ............................................................................ 993
2,409.50
632.95
Sunrise ···-····-········-······························································· 304
Alexander HaIIlilton ............................................................ 211
600.00
743.50
Point Finnin ···-····································································· 361
JaIIles A. Garfield ................................................................ 206
519.13
371.00
El Cajon Valley.•..---··-·--···-·····-·····-·-·-······------·--·- 186
500.00
Harding ·············-························································-··········· 227
Manchester .............................................................:.............. 343
777.65
Kauai ...................................................................................... 126
467.00
1,295.00
All States ................................................................................ 491
1,207.00
Pearl Harbor·····················································-··················· 514
671.50
Carmelita ................................................................................ 289
649.00
Lynwood •................................................................................. 324

355

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Lodge

Members

614 Larchmont .............................................................................. 356

623
628
632
633
636
637
642
650
657
660
675
678
680
682
685
688
690
691
694

Total

647
241

888.00
1,294.00
538.00

246
332
199
261
541
115
353
349
123
210
San Marino ............................................................................ 268
Oildale ·-·················································································
98
San Carlos ··-········································································· 139

965.00
738.00
788.75
548. 77
1,291.65
258.00
991.50
736.06
307.50
427.25
584.50
386.00
304.00

Menorah ..................................................................................
Truth ·············-·········································································

~~~!tti~~~~~-~~ ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~Ig

John Marshall........................................................................
Palisades ..................................................................................
La Cumbre ·······································--···································
La Brea ....................................................................................
John D. Spreckels.....- ..····-····················-·······--······-··-···
Baldwin Park ·······························································-·····Modesto ..................................................................................
Altadena ·································································-···············
Carmel ···············································-···································
Barstow ········-··········································································

1

w:&i~~~--~~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::: ~g

~:8l~:bg

i~~:~g

ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chairman.

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance.

356

'.PROCEEDINGS OF THe
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
Names of Residents-Decoto Home
Men-Average Age, 76.11
Lodge
No.
Town
Ag"
Name
Adm;11ed
Adams Harrison Z .......Nov. 29, '46 Orange Grove ....293 Orange ..................84
Albers: George R ...........Feb. 17, '45 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......80
Alseth Lars......................Mar. 7, '34 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........74
Alsing: Fred W ...............Oct. 11, '47 Herman ..............127 San Francisco ......73
Anderson, Chas. A.........Nov. 19, '36 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ...........Jilt
Anderson, Wm. A .........June 22, '42 Chowchilla ........485 Chowchilla ..........64.
Andrews, Frank H .........Apr. 25, '42 Durant ·····-·········268 Berkeley ..............78
Archer, Ernest E .............Jan. 30, '36 Palos Verdes ......389 Long Beach ..........81
Baer Reubin E .............June 25, '42 Sotoyome ............123 Healdsburg ..........81
Bart~n, Louis G .............Dec. 24, '43 Concord ..............117 Sacramento ..........74
Battistessa, Guiseppe......May 4, '48 LaParfaite Un... 17 San Francisco ......82
Beale, D. Grant................June 4, '46 Los Gatos............292 Los Gatos ............82,
Blanton, John S .............July 27, '48 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......80
Boehm, Hiram J .............July 19, '31 Big Bear..............617 Big Bear Lake ....85
Boggs Fred'k H .............Aug.10, '47 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......73
Bray, 'wnuam..................Sept. 1, ;45 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ···········-·····80
Brewster, Geo. W .............Apr. 2, 47 Craftsman ..........559 Los Angeles ........83
Briggs.z. Jas. E ...................Feb. 22, '46 Canoga ................611 Canoga Park ........83
Burr, J. Edward..............Apr. 29, '46 Park ................. _.499 San Francisco ....75
Cassady, Earl J .................Feb. 3, '36 Geo.
Washington ....525 San Francisco ......77
Casterline, Myron N .....Nov. 16, '32 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............83'
Chick Herbert E ...........Dec. 17, '46 Starr King..........344 San Francisco ......75
Child~, Clarence E ...........Oct. 8, '41 Palo Alto............346 Palo Alto ..............8a
Cohl, Benjamin..............Mar. 15, '48 Bay City..............526 San Francisco ......70
Collins, Wm. W .............Sept. 22, '46 Golden Gate........ 30 San Francisco ......82
Condon, Wilbert S .........Jan. 11, '42 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ..............72
Conway, Winn P .............Oct. 21, '45 Roseville ............222 Roseville ..............73
Cowan, Will E .................July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........79
Cullen Alexander............Feb. 4, '36 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............86
Date, Harrington S .........Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ................601 Portola.. ..................80
Deichmiller Conrad ......Aug. 3, '45 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......84
Donovan, John..............June 25, '48 Point Firmin ......558 San Pedro ............79
Dowdall, Fred'k W .........Aug. 3, '43 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................68
Dowdle, Everett S .........May 18, '48 Yerba Buena......403 Oakland ................79
Engelbrit, Neils S .........Nov. 17, '44 Pinole ..................353 Hercules ................73
Erwin ,Lewis J ...............July 28, '41 Olivet ..................205 Corning ·······-······-~
Esterbrook, Gary G .....June 10, '44 Standard ............440 Oakland ................79
Evans, Benj. F ......- .........Feb.13, '46 Moneta ·······-·····..405 Los Angeles ........79
Eybs, Louis ....................Nov. 12, '45 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......68
Fairall, Percy..................May 23, '48 Westwood ..........501 Westwood ............60
Felton, Wilson K .............July 1, '48 Calexico ..............412 Calexico ·····-····-··Jll,
Frost, Harold G ...............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........58
Garrick, Walter J .............Oct. 2, '47 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........85
Geibel, George F ....- .....May 12, '39 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......74
Gilliam, Marcus H .........Mar. 20, '46 Hemet .......:..........615 Hemet ....................79
Gillman, John E .............May 28, '47 Argonne ..............514 San Francisco ......71
Goodwin, Jesse W ...........Oct. 3, '47 Vermont
Square ............515 Los Angeles ........73
Greaves Walter..............Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ................396 Alameda ..............79
Gregory' Geo. W ...........Apr. 25, '36 Sunset ···········-···352 Los Angeles ........82
Halpin Robert L .............Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel ....415 Los Angeles ........75
Hamar{n Ernest A. W...May 19, '48 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......78
Harth Arthur P .............Sept. 4, '40 Lindsay ·····-······.416 Lindsay ................75
Heidt' Wesley ..................Aug. 5, '39 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......83
Hiltn~r, Harry B ...........Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......81

I

[

357

Name
Adm;11ed
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Hollman, Harry T .........July 15, '48 Paul Revere........462 San Francisco ......71
Hooper, Hugh F .............Dec. 17, '43 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........77
Hughes, Henry J .............Dec. 26, '35 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......78
Hullinger, Frank..........Aug. 26, '40 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................71
Hunt, Jose:r.h L .............June 21, '47 Acom ·········-······.494 Oakland ................73
Hyman, Milton ..............Dec.15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......62
Jack, Chas. P .....................Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......69
Jewell, Frank H ...............Aug. 7, '42 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................78
Johanson, Chas. A.........Jan. 29, '39 Balder ................393 San Francisco ......88
Johnson, August ............Aug. 4, '44 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......75
Joiner, Wm. B .................Feb. 11, '47 Marin ·····-···········191 San Rafael ......... _Jl4
Jones, Harry S ...............May 10, '47 Plumas ................ 60 Quincy ·············-···81
Kaufmann, Emil H .......Mar.19, '48 East Bay..............489 Berkeley ..............83
Lawrence, Edward S ...Mar. 22, '47 Inglewood ..........421 Inglewood ............56
Learned, Samuel M .........Apr. 8, '48 San Pedro ..........332 San Pedro ....._.....87
Lewis, Wm. I ...................July 13, '45 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........76
Matthews, Elbert C .......July 10, '35 La Mesa ..............407 La Mesa ................80
Mearns, John C ...............Mar. 3, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......74
Meichsner, Friederich..Mar. 16, '46 Brooklyn ............225 Oakland ................78
Milisich, Chris..................Oct. 5, '31 Speranza Ita'na..219 San Francisco ......77
Mills, John........................Mar. 8, '46 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........72
Morrison, Wm. F ...........June 27, '32 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................86
Nielsen, Niels P ...............Aug. 5, '47 Mount Moriah.... 44 San Francisco ......68
Nixon, Robert D .............Apr. 25, '47 Bell ......................483 Bell ·····--·--····-····--87
Over, Sirwell C ...............June 4, '47 Santa Ana ..........241 Santa Ana ............84 .
Palmer, James................Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ···········--···86
Park, Burnett C .............June 28, '44 Seaside ................504 Long Beach ..........76
Perger, John. ...................Sept. 8, '45 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................72
Peyser, Harry M .............Jan.12, '47 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......85
Pickett, Frank A ...........Jan. 11, '47 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ..........•.....81
Plato, John. .......................Feb. 5, '48 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........84
Porter, Wm. G .................Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........74
Potter, Frank L ...............Nov. 6, '46 Temple City ......612 Temple City ........84
Pouyet, Eugene..............Oct. 26, '37 Catalina Isl........524 Avalon ..................64
Pritchard, Howard M ...June 19, '47 Phoenix ···········-·178 San Bemardino....87
Quilty, Frank E ...............Feb. 1, '33 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................94
Radcliffe, Mark B ...........Oct. 12, '46 Palos Verdes ......389 Long Beach ..........77
Reaper, Robert W .........May 14, '39 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......70
Reed, Samuel B ...............Mar. 2, '46 Fr. K. Shattuck..571 Berkeley ·········-·-81
Rixen, James B .................Jan. 4, '47 Redwood City ....168 Redwood City ....77
Robie, Ira A.......................A.p r. 1, '42 Clay ···-··········-···101 Dutch Flat ............86
Rogers, Albert E .............Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ................418 Los Angeles ........70
Schemmerling,
Fred'k G.........................Nov. 5, '47 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............76
Schlichting, Martin......May 16, '35 Seaport ................550 San Francisco ......75
Sebree, Chas. H .............Mar. 21, '36 Pacific Grove......331 Pacific Grove ......87
Slagel, Robert B .............Oct. 28, '38 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ......70
Spaulding, Horace R. ....Nov.1'7, '41 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ......83
Stevenso~ John E .........July 18, '47 Starr King ·····- ···344 San Francisco ......82
Stewart, James O ...........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas ........77
Stryker, Chas. W .............Feb. 1, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......72
Tambs, Emil..................Sept. 15, '46 Alcatraz ..............2'44 Oakland .............. 83
Templeman, Henry........Dec. 29, '38 Oriental ·······-·····144 San Francisco ......87
Thomas, Jesse G ...........Sept.13, '46 Chico ·····-···········111 Chico ·····-··-·········86
Tilsner, Henry E .............Mar. 2, '46 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......77
Todd, Albert E. W .........Dec. 19, '38 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu ·········-···78
Tosyi Antonio................Sept. 23, '37 Speranza Ita'la..219 San Francisco ......81
Tutt e, Joseph K ...........Mar. 17, '46 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................76
Vanderwerker,
Leonard C ...................Apr. 13, '47 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................77
Vorsanger, Edward A ...June 10, '37 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ..............80

358

359

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
· No.
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Los
Angeles
........
89
Golden
Gate
......
358
Walles, John F ...............Dec. 11, '45
Wallis, Abraham G .........Nov. 2, '47 Midway ..............426 Taft ........................64
Warren, George R...........Apr. 2, '46 Evergreen ..........259 Riverside ..............88
Watkins, Wilford G .......Apr. 11, '47 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park....81
Williams, Chas. F ...........Aug. 24, 46 Rockridge ......... .468 Oakland ................68
Willis, Walter H ...............Dec. 7, '45 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................71
Wood, Drew, LaF.......... .Dec. 31, '45 Visalia ................128 Visalia ..................71
Young, Theodore H .........Jan. 4, '47 Fremont ..............497 Oakland ....•...........a.t

Town
Age
No.
Lodge
Name
Admitted
Fox, Laura ....................June 26, '48 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........92
Gilliam, Estelle G .........Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ..................615 Hemet ....................64
Gillman, Elizabeth J .....May 28, '47 Argonne ..............514 San Francisco ......62
Gordon, Emma..............June 27, '36 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......69
Goodwin, Emma............June 13, '48 Vermont Sq.......515 Los Angeles ........ 75
Gowen, Laura................Jan. 31, '48 Palestine ............351 San Francisco ......83
Grant, Lillian A. ..............Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ...... 25 Georgetown ........74
Greaves, Margaret I .......Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ................396 Alameda ..............68
Green, Nellie J ...............Dec. 10, '44 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ...... 79
Griffith, Rose L .............Mar. 26, '36 Enterprise .......... 70 Yuba City .........•..82
Guysi, Jennie F .............May 30, '45 Anaheim ··-········207 Anaheim ..............86
Harris, Helena G ...........July 12, '46 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................85
Harris, Louise C .............Feb. 19, '33 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ...... 73
Harvey, Sarah C ...........Sept. 14, '47 Reading ..............254 Redding ................ 78
Hawkins, Louisa..........June 26, '48 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................80
Hazard, Marie................Aug, 10, '25 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ..............77
Henderlong, M .................June 4, '46 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............76
Henderson, F. B .............May 25, '40 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............68
Hewett, Frieda Z .............Nov. 7, '46 King Solomon's..260 San Francisco ......64
Higgins, Rhoda J ...........Feb. 17, '48 Calistoga ............233 Calistoga ..............84
Hill, Catherine A. ..........Apr. 26, '48 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........68
Howland, Joanna..........Mar. 10, '48 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............85
Hyatt, Nannie S ............ .Feb. 13, '48 Washington ........ 20 .Sacramento ..........82
Hyman, Loretta .............Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......57
Jack, Mary....•...................June 1, '31 McKinley ..........347 Richmond ............81
Jackson, May R. ............Aug. 27, '25 Lompoc ..............262 Lompoc ................89
Jebe, Elise ......................Mar. 10, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ...... 76
Johnson, Jane H ...............Jan. 6, '34 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......82
Joly, Evalyn M .................Feb. 6, '47 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......83
Kauffman, Eda B .............Dec. 7, '46 Alex. Gr. Bell....595 Los Angeles ........66
Kaufmann, Augusta ....Mar. 19, '48 East Bay ............489 Berkeley ..............79
Keenan, Effie ................July 17, '33 Jewell ..................374 San Francisco ......71
Kellogg, Lillie F .......·....... .Dec. 2, '30 Chula Vista ........626 Chula Vista ..........92
Kelso, Katharine ..........Apr. 26, '35 Redwood City ....168 Redwood City ......83
Kidder, Hallie D ...............Dec. 2, '46 Torrance ............447 Torrance ..............81
King, Sara E ...................Oct. 26, '46 Hollywood ........:.355 Hollywood ............65
Krejcik, Rose ................Feb. 16, '48 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ...... 73
Lane, Edith B .................Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........74
Langenberger,
Conradine ..................Apr. 26, '47 Jewell ..................374 San Francisco ......83
Larson, Alice B ...............Jan. 18, '47 Balder ................393 San Francisco ...... 70
Lewis, Elizabeth ..............Jan. 4, '47 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ...... 79
Lowell, Lillian ............ Sept. 29, '46 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ......87
Mackenzie, May W .......June 30, '41 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................70
Maltby, Sarah E .............Dec. 16, '39 Chico ..................111 Chico .................... 78
Mann, Bertha ................June 10, '33 Naval .................. 87 Vallejo ..................80
Manzer, Mary J .............May 21, '47 Doric •................•..216 San Francisco ......83
Mariner, Helen W ...........June 6, '46 Hartley ................199 Lakeport ..............80
Martin, Henrietta G .....Nov. 20, '44 San Gabriel ........546 San Gabriel ..........74
Martin, Mary J .................Dec. 4, '41 Franklin ............143 Courtland ............75
Masse, Eleanor ..............May 22, '36 Yount .......:: ......... 12 Napa ...................... 75
Mayfield, Mary J .........Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............76
McCord, Zidana M .........Oct. 18, '46 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........73
McCully, Gertie M.......June 16, '46 Educator ............554 San Francisco ......72
McDowell, Alice M .......Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................ 72
McGarry, Marion A. ......June 2, '48 Catalina Isl. ......524 Avalon ..................60
Mciver, Ella W .................July 9, '48 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............73
McLean, Lucy A ...........Nov. 28, '34 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......72
Mears, Margaretta T ...Sept. 17, '41 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........67
Merrill, Ivy L .................Jan. 25, '41 Illinoistown ...... 51 Colfax ·······--··--·--69

Names of Residents

WOMEN

Average Age 77.64

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Abbey, Emma H .............Mar. 4, '48 Hemet ..................615 Hemet ....................79
Alexander, Mary..............May 1, '48 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........90
Allen, Ida..........................Feb. 17, 40 Balder ................393 San Francisco ......80
Ames, Clementina H .......Mar. 8, '41 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......86
Aver, Ida M .....................Mar. 4, '44 Madison .............. 23 Grass Valley ........78
Baker, Annie J ...............May 15, '48 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................ 72
Barnes, Alice M ......,........Feb. 4, '46 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ............90
Barnes, Elaine G .............July 7, '34 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........78
Barton, Annie N .......... .Aug. 27, '33 Truckee ..............200 Truckee ................96
Barton, Grace A. ............Dec. 24, '43 Concord ·····-······117 Sacramento ..........59
Bausch, Ella A ...................Oct. 2, '41 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ··············"·8(
Bertram, Annie L .........Sept. 20, '42 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............86
Blakiston, Edith A. ..........Apr. 4, '48 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......80
Blank, Maude H ........... Sept. 28, '46 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........78
Bradic, Elizabeth H .......June 3, '44 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......56
Brockman, K. S ............ .Feb. 23, '43 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto .............. 75
Brod, Laura H ...............Sept. 28, '46 Fidelity .............. 120 San Francisco ...... 85
Brown, Lima C ...............May 25, '34 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ...... 91
Brown, May M ...............Nov. 29, '42 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........76
Burnett, Ethlan R...........Feb. 9, '36 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................73
Carnall, Louise M ...........Dec. 1, '45 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......76
Casterline, Mary A. ......Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............75
Cavins, Kittie E .............Aug. 13, '44 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............74
Chappell, Margaret H ...Aug. 8, '46 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........84
Chase, Aimee C ...............Dec. 3, '41 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......79
Congdon, Jessie B ...........Apr. 3, '45 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas ........ 74
Costain, Mattie L .........June 10, '40 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ................ 72
Cowan, Anna E .............July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........82
Crosbie, Hilda................Apr. 29, '45 Point Firmin ......558 San Pedro ............77
Crowley, Mary A. ........Sept. 28, '46 Mt. Jackson ........295 Guerneville ..........81
Cundell, Isabel...............Dec. 16, '44 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........73
Damner, Jennie............Aug. 27, '42 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ......73
Dixon, Nora....................Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ........ 73
Donald, Flora L ............ .Apr. 10, '48 Amity ..................370 San Francisco ......60
Donath, Augusta............July 15, '45 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ................7&
Edwards, Nellie B. ........Jan. 24, '39 Brooklyn ............225 Oakland ................73
Elliott, Maude M ...........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ......70
Erwin, Lilian B .............July 28, '41 Olivet ..................205 Corning ................75
Felton, Mary M .................Oct. 3, '34 Mt. Davidson ....481 San Francisco ......73
Ferguson, Ruth R...........May 26, '34 Sotoyme ..............123 Healdsburg ..........91
Fetrow, Dora L ...............May 11, '35 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ............'1'9
Finley, Ada L ...................Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........77
Fish, Gertrude L .............J·an. 26, '46 Elmhurst ............610 Oakland ................84
Ford, Sena E ...................July 27, '41 Harbor ................502 Richmond ............ 78
Fortriede, Auguste..........Apr. 4, '25 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......71
Foster, Elisabeth M.........July 8, '36 Hawaiian ............ 21 H-0nolulu .............. 79
Foster, Nellie G .............June 21, '30 Berkeley ............363 Berkeley ..............85
Fowler, Mary B ............ .Mar. 25, '43 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................81

I

l

360

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Monro, Eddith C ...........Mar. 16, '46 Al:pha ................. .431 Richmond ............80
Morgan, Martha L .........Sept. 1, '44 Fairmount ......... .435 San Francisco ......80
Newman, Susanna..........June 4, '29 Antioch ..............175 Antioch ................86
Nielsen, Este M .................Oct. 3, '40 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................ 70
Noble, Grace F .................July 4, '32 Trinity ··-----·-······· 27 Weaverville ........88
O'Donnell, Florence D ...June 1, '43 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............85
Ohlsen, Julia.................... Sept. 7, '37 Balder ................393 San Francisco ...... 70
Otis, Ethel E ...................Mar. 22, '48 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............65
Ough, Lily G •................. .May 14, '47 Sincerity ............132 Greenville ............ 69
Palmer, Elizabeth F .....Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................81
Palmer, Lilla P .............June 16, '44 Carmel .... ~ ........... 680 Carmel ..................86
Pankow, Catherine..... .Apr. 29, '29 Crockett .............. 139 San Francisco ......83
Pea~ock, ;K!ltie C ...........Mar. 15, '47 Alcatraz .............. 244 Oakland ................ 75
Peall'S, Lillian W ...........Feb. 11, '35 Normal H'ts ......632 San Diego ............79
Pearce, Carrie C .............Oct. 11, '46 Oakland ·-----········188 Oakland ................84
Pease, Mabel.. ..................Oct. 10, '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 72
Perger, Eva............. - .......Sept. 8, '45 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................71
Prentice, Rose................June 30, '45 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............79
Preslar, Ida......................Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................86
Ramsey, Hattie L .........June 23, '40 Monterey ............217 Monterey ..............87
Raymond, Lillian F .....Sept. 21, '39 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara .......... 79
Reasoner, Marie D .........July 21, '48 Normal H'ts ...... 632 San Diego ............66
R~ley, Edna M ............... Aug. 14, '46 Pasadena ............ 272 Pasadena .............. 76
Rix, Ella N .....................Nov. 17, '45 East Bay ............489 Berkeley .............. 73
Robertson, Mary F ..........&pr. 28, '46 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........75
Roe, Addie E ...................July 28, '42 Live Oak ···--····-- 61 Oakland ................82
Roeder, Elizabeth B .......June 6, '43 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............77
Rogers, Abbey J ............ .Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ------·-··----·.418 Los Angeles ........77
Rogers, Leonora..............Oct. 16, '25 King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo ..89
Root, Emma F, _____________ _____ Dec. 2, '32 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......83
Rosie, Elizabeth... ___________Jan. 12, '43 La Fayette .......... 126 Sebastopol ..... :......85
Ross, Catherine L ... __________ May 3, '39 Morgan Hill ..... .463 Morgan Hill ........75
Ross, Elizabeth ..............Nov. 10, '46 Crockett .............. 139 San Francisco ...... 78
Rouscup, Annie M .......Sept. 18, '38 Burbank ............406 Burbank ................91
Scheuch, Caroline..........Feb. 27, '44 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ......80
Schwartz, Grace H .......July 12, '42 Arlington ............414 Los Angeles ........ 76
Settle, Mary....................Apr. 10, '41 Buckeye ..............195 Winters ................92
Seymour, Laura..............Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu ..............70
Shanks, Ella.................... Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............77
Sharp, Orry A. ................July 16, '45 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................87
Smay, Madge ________________June 11, '36 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................81
Smilie, Mary A. ............. .Mar. 4, '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................87
Snyder, Amanda G .......Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........75
Sparrowe, Constance..Sept. 27, '40 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......80
Spaulding, Lillian 1.....Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ...... 77
Spivey, Elizabeth __________ Feb. 12, '47 Rio Vista .......- ...208 Rio Vista ..............92
Sprague, Julia A. ..........June 29, '47 Acorn ..................494 Oakland ................80
Stevens, Jessie F .......... .Sept. 22, '46 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach ..92
Stewart, Mary................Mar. 12, '32 Concord ..............117 Sacramento ..........78
Stroud, Laura L ...............June 2, '37 Vacaville ............134 Vacaville ..............74
Taylor, Clara B ................ .Apr. 2, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......87
Thomas, Elizabeth S .......Dec. 7, '41 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........69
Thomas, Ellen S ............... Oct. 5, '38 Euclid ..................519 Los Angeles ........67
Thompson, Celia............Dec. 16, '33 Eden ....................113 San Leandro ·-·-···· 77
Thomson, Wilhelmina....Mar. 4, '44 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ........89
Torr, Georgina R ...........Jan. 14, '33 Elmhurst ···--------610 Oakland ·-····-·-·-·-···82
Trittenbach, Lulu..........Jan. 13, '45 Excelsior ···-··-·---166 San Francisco ......82
Vale, Olive B .................June 18, '36 Bethlehem ......... .453 San Francisco ......91
Wade, Georgia M.......... .Feb. 24, '39 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda .............. 76
Wetzel, Laura.......- .......Dec. 18, '35 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......86
Name

361

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Whidden, Effie E ............ .Feb. 3, '47 Tehama .............. 3 Sacramento ....... -86
Wh~te, Emma C.............Apr. 16, '46 Tuscan ···-···········261 Williams ..............88
W!1ittemor~, Ida E ...........May 5, '46 Mt. Jackson ...... 2115 Guerneville ..........82
Wµcox, E~ith ................... .May 3, '36 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............80
Wild, Lydia....................Aug. 26, '46 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................86
Williams, Annie F ...........Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......69
W~lliams,_M_ary C ...........Feb. 17, '43 Holtville ............425 Holtville ..............85
Wilson, Lillie B ...............Oct. 23, '44 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........78
Wilson, Mary Ann........Mar. 31, '36 Fraternity ..........399 San Jose ·········-·····82
Wilson, Mary L ............ .Feb. 20, '44 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ...... 75
Wolfson, Bertha S .......... .June 5, '47 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............81
Zander, Olive R ...............Oct. 24, '45 Naval .................. 87 Vallejo ..................88
Zeehandelaar, Mary E ...Jan. 12, '48 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........77
;'~ "'1.~·r.-lf':· ~c~,.~it+#• ·~~~ .~~~ '"'! SP' · ~-~...,.-'W'"' - ~

1

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
- DECOTO. CALIFORNIA
ANNUAL REPORT. 1947-1948
.
ADMISSIONS 1947-1948: Men 27. Average Age 76.11
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Alsing, Fred'k W .............Oct. 11, '47 Herman ..............127 San Francisco ......72
Battistessa, Guiseppe......May 4, '48 La Parfait Un..... 17 San Francisco ......82
Blanton, John S .............July 26, '48 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......80
Boggs, Fred'k H .............Aug. 10, '47 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......72
Burton, Alfred................Sept. 2, '47 Le Progres de
Oceanie ..........371 Honolulu ..............86
Cohl, Benjamin..............Mar. 15, '48 Bay City ..............526 San Francisco ......70
Cowan, Will E .................July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........80
Crampton, Walter A ..... Oct. 10, '47 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ........ 78
Date, Harrington S .........Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ................601 Portola ..................80
Donovan, John V ...........June 25, '48 Point Firmin ...... 558 San Pedro ............78
Dowdle, Everett S .........May 18, '48 Yerba Buena ..... .403 Oakland ................78
Fairall, Percy..................May 23, '48 Westwood ..........501 Westwood ............60
Felton, Wilson K. ............July 1, '48 Calexico ..............412 Calexico ................81
Garrick, Walter J .............Oct. 2, '47 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........84
Goodwin, Jesse W ...........Oct. 3, '47 Vermont Sq.......515 Los Angeles ........ 72
Hamann, Ernest A. W ...May 19, '41i California .......... 1 San Francisco ...... 78
Hollman, Harry T .........July 15, '48 Paul Revere ......462 San Francisco ......72
Hyman, Milton................Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......61
Kaufmann, Emil H .......Mar. 19, '48 East Bay ............489 Berkeley ..............82
Learned, Samuel W ........ .Apr. 8, '48 San Pedro ..........332 San Pedro ............87
Nielsen, Niels P ...............Aug. 5, '47 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ......67
Palmer, James............... .Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ···--·--··········85
Plato, John ........................Feb-. 5, '48 Long Beach ________ 327 Long Beach ..........83
Rogers, Albert E ............ .Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ···········---.418 Los Angeles ........69
Schemmerling, F. G .......Nov. 5, '47 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............ 76
Wallis, Abraham G .........Nov. 2, '47 Midway ..............426 Taft ........................63
Wyman, Francis G.......Aug. 22, '47 Claremont ..........436 Claremont ............79

ADMISSIONS: Women 32. Average ·Age 75.5
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Abbey, Emma H .............Mar. 4, '48 Hemet ..................615 Hemet ....................78
Alexander, Mary..............May 1, '48 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........90
Baker, Annie J ...............May 15, '48 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................ 72
Blakiston, Edith A. ..........Apr. 4, '48 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......79
Cowan, Anna E .............July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........82
Crampton, Minnie L ... Sept. 20, '47 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ........ 74
Donald, Flora L .. - .........Apr. 10, '48 Amity ..................370 San Francisco ......59
Elliott, Maude M ...........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ......70
Fox, Laura ....................June 26, '48 Union ........... _..... 58 Sacramento ..........92
Name

362

363

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Goodwin, Emma ..........June 13, '48 Vermont Sq.......515 Los Angeles ........74
Gowen, Laura ..................Jan. 31, '48 Palestine ............351 San Francisco ......82
Harver, Sarah C ........ _.Sepl 14, '47 Reading ..............254 Redding ................ 77
Hawkins, Louise ............June 26, '48 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................79
Higgins, Rhoda J .......... .Feb. 17, '48 Calistoga ............233 Calistoga ............_84
Hill, Catherine A .......... .Apr. 26, '48 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........68
Holmes, Mary L .............Sept. 9, '47 Phoenix ···-·······--178 San Bernardino ..84
Howland, Joanne ..........Mar. 10, '48 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton .............. 84
Hyatt, Nannie S .............Feb. 13, '48 Washin·~on ........ 20 Sacramento ..........82
Hyman, Loretta..............Feb. 15, '48 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......56
Jebe, Elise ......................Mar. 10, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......75
Kaufmann, Augusta......Mar. 19, '48 East Bay ............489 Berkeley .............. 79
Krejcik, Rose ..................Feb. 16, '48 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......72
Lane, Edith B .................Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa .......... 73
McGarry, Marion A. ......June 2, '48 Catalina Isl. ......524 Avalon ·········-····---60
Mciver, Ella W .................July 9, '48 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ·····-·····--72
Otis, Ethel E .................. .Mar. 22, '48 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............64
Palmer, Elizabeth F .... .Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ···········-··--·80
Pease, MabeL..................Ocl 10, '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................71
Reasoner, Marie D .........July 21, '48 Normal H'ts ......632 San Diego ............66
Rogers, Abbey J .............Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ................418 Los Angeles ........76
Taylor, Clara B ................ .Apr. 2, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......86
Zeehandelaar, Mary E ...Jan. 12, '48 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........ 76

Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Name
Admilled
West
Lake
..........
392
Sniffen, Samuel T ...........Oct. 10, '47
Decoto ············-···93
Soule, John F ................ .Dec. 14, '47 Table Mtn .......... .124 Decoto ..................88
Delano
..................75
Waite, Fred...............- .. -SE!J>t. 15, '47 Delano ................309
Wilson, George...·.............Feb. 2, '48 Fraternity ..........399 Decoto ..................82
Wilson, Lawrence H .......J ·an. 8, '48 Culver City ........467 Decoto .................. 77
Wyman, Francis G .........Oct. 29, '47 Claremont ..........436 Pomona ................79
DEATHS 1947-1948: Women 22. Average Age 82.136
Age
Burial
Lodge
No.
Name
Date
Baehr, Linea L .............. .Aug. 11, '47 King Solomon's..260 San Mateo ............82
Bane, Florence A .............May 2, '48 Rockridge ..........468 Decoto ·········-·····-83
Bartlett, Helen E .............Oct. 4, '47 Doric ....................216 Decoto ..................76
Bemis, Florence E .........Mar. 18, '48 Ml Moriah ........ 44 Sacto .....................87
Crampton, Minnie L .... .Dec. 13, '47 West Lake ---------392 Pasadena ------------74
Earl, Sue Helen..............Oct. 14, '47 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 Oakland ................78
Farley, Louise T .............Dec. 24, '47 Los Gatos ............292 Los Gatos ..............99
Hoff, Sadie A .......•...........Mar. 2, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Fresno ·······--·-·····84
Holmes, Mary L .............June 16, '48 Phoenix ·-··-····--178 San Ber'do ............85
Hunt, Mabel E ...............July 29, '48 Acorn ·······-·········494 Oakland ···-···········71
Jones, Mary......................Jan. 3, '48 Oakland ·····-·····--188 Dceoto .................. 75
Lamb, Julia E •................. .Feb. 6, '48 King David's ......209 Hood River, Ore ...75
Laufman, Anna..............May 20, '48 Sincerity ·····------132 Oakland ···········-···97
Martin, Carrie F .............Jan. 31, '48 Whittier ..............323 Decoto ···········-·····86
Monroe, Alma A.............Dec. 21, '47 Pacific ----------------136 Los Gatos ·······-··--65
Nielsen, Mary V .............May 18, '48 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Decoto ..................87
Shakespeare, Helen ! .....Apr. 1, '48 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................84
Smith, Minnie A. ............Jan. 29, '48 Smyrna ..............532 Ceres ....................-83
Sosso, Maria L .................Jan. 25, '48 Roosevelt ····-------500 San Mateo ..........•.62
Vorsanger (Davis), F .....Mar. 3, '48 Mt. Moriah ···-··· 44 Decoto ·····-······----91
Walton, Ida E--··-······-···May 10, '48 Oakland ..............188 San Mateo ............88
West, Henrietta B. ........Dec. 22, '47 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Decoto ..................95

WITHDRAWALS
Name
Date
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Thompson, Lillian E .....Feb. 16, '48 Hill's Ferry ........236 Newman ..............79
Carroll, Nellie Paul......July 30, '48 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ..........77
DEATHS 1947-1948: Men 33. Average Age 80.666
Lodge
No.
Burial
Age
Name
Date
Badger, Gurdon S .........Sept. 25, '47 California .......... 1 San Mateo Co.......76
Battle, Joseph D ........ ___ .July 12, '48 Stanislaus ......... .206 Decoto ··············---88
Beach, Ransom E ...........June 5, '48 Piedmont ............521 Oakland ···········----87
Beck, Henry A. ..............Nov. 23, '47 Albert Pike ........484 Long Beach ..........78
Bennett, Fred C .............Apr. 14, '48 Charter Rock ... .410 San Mateo Co.......81
Bird, Robert B ...............Jtily 29, '48 Mission ···········----169 Oakland ................85
Blanche!_. Burdick H .....Dec. 19, '47 Citro! ···-··········---656 Fullerton ···········--72
Bonde, Hans P ...............Nov. 12, '47 Alisa! ..................321 Pleasanton ..........84
Burton, AlfrecL ..............June 4, '48 La Progres De
L'Oceania ......371 Decoto ···-·············87
Christensen, CarL ..........Jan. 30, '48 Wilshire ..............445 Inglewood ............7g
Crampton, Walter A .......Nov. 5, '47 West Lake ..........392 Pasadena ···--·-·····78
Dinesen, Jacob N ...........Oct. 19, '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Decoto ············-----85
Ellis, Edward A. ............Mar. 28, '48 San Miguel ........285 Decoto •................. 71
Garnie, Fred H .................Feb. 2, '48 King Solomon's..260 Decoto ·········-······-76
Ingersoll, Ralph W ........ .May 9, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........80
Inns, Ernest F ........ ______ .Apr. 18, '48 Lindsay --·-···----416 Lindsay ···--·-··-···73
Kemp, Edward H .............Apr. 5, '48 Oak Grove ..........215 San Mateo Co.......79
Lehman, August H .........Apr. 1, '48 Santa Monica .... 307 Decoto ------··········-88
Meyers, Ernest E .......... .Aug. 28, '47 Stockton ............498 Decoto ..................85
Mitchell, Steven N, _______June 2, '48 Wasco ..................583 Bakersfield ---------67
Morgan, Ernest P ...........July 15, '48 Acorn ·····--········-494 Portland, Ore. ....82
Mullan, Nathaniel S .......Apr. 5, '48 Hawaiian·····----· 21 Honolulu ..............83
Oliver, John W ...............Jan. 23, '48 Naval .................. 87 Decoto ········-·······83
Olsen, George W .............May 7, '48 Westwood ..........501 Decoto ···-············· 76
Reinhold, Peter W ...........Feb. 6, '48 Marin ···········-···--191 Decoto ····---···-·-·88
Rogers, Afton E .............Dec. 27, '47 Texas .................. 46 Hollister ···-··----·76
Ryan, Chas. A ............ ____oct. 20, '47 Baldwin Park ....660 Compton ···-······---80

-.

l

Age Groups 1947-1948
Average age groups are as follows:
Women
Between 50 and 60 years.............................................. 3
Between 60 and 70 years......................................... ---· 19
Between 70 and 80 years...---·······-···················-·········· 80
Between 80 and 90 years---·-············v··-····-··············· 66
Over
90 ·············-······················································· 12
180

Men
2
10
55
52
2
· 121 Total 301

Average age for women 77.64 and for men 76.11

364

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
DECOTO, CALIFORNIA.
ANNUAL REPORT 1947-1948
VISITATIONS
August 3, 1947. Church Services:
Rev. Frank Bullock substituting for
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
August 9, 1947. San Mateo Lodge
No. 226, San Mateo. Third Degree.
August 10, 1947. Church Services:
Congregational Song Service.
August 16, 1947. Official Visit of
Grand Matron 0. E. S. Birdie Bassett
and her corps of officers; Annual visit
of East Bay Past Matrons' Association with gifts of jelly, cakes and garments for hospital. Reception in afternoon.
August 17, 1947. Church Services:
Rev Escalon, Bethel Church, Hayward.
August 22, 1947. Vallejo Assembly
No. 3 Rainbow for Girls. Visit and
, conferring of degrees.
August 24, 1947. Church Services:
Rev. Myroy Herrell, M e t h o d i s t
Church, Hayward.
August ~1, 1947. Church Services:
Home Choir and congregation.
September 6, 1947. Communion
Service: Rev. G. C. Henschelwood
Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward'.
September 7, 1947. Church Services, Community Sing.
September 7, 1947. Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219, San Francisco
Visit, picnic lunch and program.
·
September 12, 1947. Ex c e 1 s i or
Lodge No. 166, San Francisco. Third
Degree.
September 14, 1947. Church Services: Rev. G. C. Henschelwood
Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward'.
September 14, 1947. East Bay Masters' and Wardens' association, Ernest Sharp, Pres. Barbecue and Program.
September 20, 1947. Francis Drake
Lo<;Ige No. 376, South San Francisco.
Third Degree.
September 21, 1947. Church Services: Rev. Otis Ironmonger Presbyterian Church, Hayward. '
September 21, 1947. Thirty Sixth
Masonic District. Entertainment.
September 26, 1947. Foothill Lodge
No. 564 and Foothill Chapter, 0. E. S.

Entertainment. Refreshments for all.
September 27, 1947. Point Lodge
No. 503, Richmond. Entertainment in
Auditorium followed by Degree
Work at the Temple.
September 28, 1947. Occidental
Lodge No 22. Visitation.
September 28, 1947. Church Services. Home Choir and Congregation.
October 4, 1947. Communion Services: Rev. G. C. Henschelwood
Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward'.
October 5, 1947. Church Services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
October 5, 1947. Alameda Masonic
Officers Club. Barbecue and entertainment.
October 7 & 8, 1947. O'-night visit
of Grand Master and Mrs. Moore.
Entertainment in Auditorium.
October 12, 1947. Church Services:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
October 15, 1947. Grand Lodge delegates and guests. Visitation.
October 19, 1947. Church Services:
Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Presbyterian
Church, Hayward.
October 24, 1947. Palo Alto Lodge
No. 346, Palo Alto. Third Degree.
October 26, 1947. Church Services:
Salvation Army of Hayward.
October 26, 1947. Oakland Lodge
No. 188, Oakland. Visit, program and
basket lunch.
October 31, 1947. Sunnyvale Lodge
No. 511, Sunnyvale. Third Degree.
November 1, 1947. Communion
Services: Rev. G. C. Henschelwood,
Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
Afternoon.
November 1, 1947. Hallowe'en Masquerade Party.
November 2, 1947. Church Services: Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist Church, Hayward.
November 5, 1947. Girl Scouts, 2
troops, from Hayward. Folk Dancing.
November 8, 1947. 51st Masonic
District. Entertainment.
November 9, 1947. Church Services: Rev. G. C. Henschelwood
Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward'.

r

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

November 16, 1947. Church Services: Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Presbyterian Church, Hayward.
November 17, 1947. Stereoscoptican Views: Rev. Allen Searles: showing scenes from "The Book of the
World."
November 21, 1947. King Solomon's Lodge No. 260. Maj. Gilbert A.
Benoit, W.M.: First Degree.
November 30, 1947. Rev. Dougherty, Baptist Church, Alameda, and
choir, for church services.
December 1, 1947. Jas. L. Gray,
Belvedere: McGill, the Magician.
December 7, 1947. Church Services: Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward: Choir presenting
Christmas music.
December 7, 1947. Job's Daughters,
Bethel No. 1, and Oakland Chapter,
DeMolay: Variety program.
December 14, 1947. Church Services: Rev. G. C. Henschelwood,
Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
December 14, 1947. Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 87, Berkeley, California: Musical program.
December 16, 1947. Charity Lodge
No. 362, Campbell: Program of
Christmas carols.
December 21, 1947. Church Services: Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Presbyterian Church, Hayward, accompanied by Job's Daughters Choir,
Bethel No. 21 of Hayward.
·
December 22, 1947. Rainbow Girls,
Assembly No. 5, San Jose: Musical
Program of Carols. Gifts for members of Home.
Decembeer 28, 1947. Church Services: Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
December 31, 1947. New Year's Eve
Family Party. Frank Hullinger, General Chairman.
January 4, 1948. Church Services:
First Baptist Church, Hayward. "The
Lord's Harvesters," group of young
people from that church.
January 3, 1948. Ramsdell, Musician and Narrator, with J. L. Gray
Co., of Marin.
January 11, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
January 18, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, M e th o d i s t
Church, Hayward.

365

January 25, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Presbyterian
Church, Hayward.
(February dates cancelled because
of flu conditions).
February 28, 1948. Communion:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
March 6, 1948. Visit of Francis K.
Shattuck Lodge No. 571: First Degree.
March 7, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
March 9, 1948. Mr. and Mrs. C. F.
Jenkins, Los Gatos: Kodachrome pictures of Hawaii. Mr. Jenkins, narrator.
March 14, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
March 19, 1948. Visit of California
Lodge No. 1, San Francisco, Calif.
Third Degree. Program for the ladies
in Auditorium with California No. l's
quartet.
March 20, 1948. Visit of Berkeley
Lodge No. 363: Conferring of Second
Degree. Program in Auditorium for
the ladies, presented by ladies of
Berkeley Lodge.
March 21, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Presbyterian
Church, Hayward. Music by East Bay
Past Matron's Choral Club.
March 27, 1948. Communion: Rev.
G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
March 28. Church Services: Rev.
Myron Herrell, First M e t h o d i s t
Church, Hayward, California.
April 4, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
April 4, 1948. Christian Science
Services: Auspices of First Church of
Christ Scientist, Niles.
April 10, 1948. Visit of Utopia
Lodge No. 537, from Los Angeles, and
conferring of Third Degree.
April 11, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity
Episcopal Church, Hayward.
April 12, 1948. Motion Picture,
"This Is My Railroad," presented by
Southern Pacific Co.
April 16, 1948. Job's Daughters.
Bethel No. 87, Berkeley. Musical program and revue.

366

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

April 17, 1948. Palm Lodge No. 512
and Culver City Lodge No. 467. Visit
of Home, Barbecue, and Third Degree.
April 18, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Otis Ironmonger, Presbyterian
Church, Hayward.
April 25, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward.
May 1, 1948. Stanislaus Lodge No.
206, Modesto. Visit and entertainment.
May 1, 1948. Communion: Rev.
G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
May 2, 1948. Church Services: Rev.
H. A. Farrar, First Baptist Church,
Hayward.
Mar 8, 1948. Visit of Warren G.
Hardmg Lodge No. 579, North Sacramento. Third Degree.
May 9, 1948. Church Services: Rev.
G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity, Episcopal Church, Hayward.
May 11, 1948. Visit and conferring
of First Degree. Alpha Lodge No. 431,
Richmond.
May 15, 1948. Paul Revere Lodge
No. 462, San Francisco. First Degree,
afternoon; Third Degree, evening.
May 16, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Otis Irorunonger, Presbyterian
Church, Hayward.
May 21, 1948. Eucalyptus Lodge
No. 243, sponsoring Hayward Community Theatre Group. "Ante-room
to Heaven."
May 22, 1948. Francis Drake Lodge
No. 376, South San Francisco. Visit
and program, afternoon.
May 23, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Methodist
Church, Hayward, followed by San
Francisco DeMolay; Mothers' Day
ceremonial.
May 30, 1948. Church Services: Rev.
R. C. Norberg, Eden Congregational
Church, Hayward.

May 31, 1948. Service of Remembrance. Home Family.
June 6, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. H. A. Farrar, First Baptist
Church, Hayward.
June 12, 1948. Visit of San Mateo
Lodge No. 226. Conferring of Third
Degree.
June 13, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Henschelwood, Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.
June 19, 1948. Bethlehem Lodge
No. 453, San Francisco. Visit and conferring of First Degree.
June 21, 1948. Church Services:
Salvation Army, Hayward.
June 26, 1948. 19th Masonic District. Third Degree.
June 26, 1948. Communion: Rev.
Henschelwood, Trinity E p i s c o p a 1
Church, Hayward, California.
June 27, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Myron Herrell, Me tho d is t
Church, Hayward.
June 27, 1948. Redwood City Lodge
No. 168, Redwood City. Program,
musical.
July 4, 1948. Church Services: Rev.
H. A. Farrar, First Baptist Church,
Hayward.
July 11, 1948. Church Services:
Song Service, Home Family.
July 18, 1948. Church Services:
Salvation Arrlly, Hayward.
July 25, 1948. Church Services:
Rev. Myton Herrell, M e t h o d i st
Church, Hayward.
July 29, 1948. Visit of Vallejo Assembly No. 3, Rainbow for Girls.
Program.
July 30, 1948. Acom Lodge No.
494, Oakland. Conferring of Third
Degree.
July 31, 1948. Communion: Rev.
G. C. Henschelwood, Trinity Episcopal Church, Hayward.

367

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
DECOTO. CALIFORNIA.
ANNUAL REPORT
CONTRIBUTIONS. 1947-1948

r'

August 11, 1947-Foothill Lodge
October 12, 19 4 7 Edward F.
No. 564, Oakland. 10 boxes of Gra- Braunschweiger, 495 20th Ave., San
venstein apples; delivered by H. E. Francisco. Large assortment of ladies' clothing, 2 overcoats, umbrella
Martin.
August 14, 1947-Mr. L. J. Arms, and other miscellaneous articles.
631 O'Farrell St., San Francisco. 1
October 27, 1947-Chas. Harding,
suit of men's clothing.
Route 2-13-3 Los Gatos. 1 large box
August 16, 1947-East Bay Past of prunes.
Matron's Association: Mrs. Louise C.
November 10, 1947~Mount Moriah
Wood, Pres. 7634 glasses of jam and Lodge No. 44, San Francisco. Ladies'
jelly; 83 jars of fruit, 30 jars of pick- clothing and shoes magazines.
les and relishes, 76 home made cakes.
November 30, 1947-Mr. R. H. KinAugust 16, 1947-Essie Hickman ney, 617 Eustidillo, San Leandro. 2
Electa Association of 1947. 8 cans of cases of tomato paste; 2 cases of pow. dered milk; 1 case of pep.
cookies for shut-in ladies.
December 3, 1947-East Bay Past
August 16, 1947-Bethany Shrine
No. 12, Men's Club, Berkeley. 32 Matron's Association. 11 hospital
decks of .playing cards for the ladies gowns; Christmas .gifts for the ladies
of the Home.
of the Home.
August 20, 1947-Mr. John C. FishDecember 7, 1947-Mr. R. H. Kinbeck, 1306 Fifth Ave., San Francisco. ney, 617 Eustidillo, San Leandro. 2
1 lot of clothing for men.
gallons of stuffed olives.
August 27, 1947-Mr. Chas. X.
December 11, 1947-Mrs. J. W.
Cherrie, 855 N. Second St., San Jose;
1536 N. Hunter St., Stockton.
member of Friendship Lodge No. 210. Barnes,
Men's clothing.
1 lot of magazines.
December 22, 1947--0 r o vi 11 e
September 7, 1947-Esperanza Italiana Lodge No. 219, San Francisco. Lodge F. & A. M., Oroville. 1 keg of
Candy and cigars for entire Home olives.
December 22, 1947-F rank 1 in
family.
September 7, 1947-Ira Leroy Chapter No. 20 R. A. M., Oroville. 1
Heckinger, 2374 25th Ave., San keg of olives.
Francisco, of Parnassus Chapter. 1
December 23, 1947-F. D. Howell,
lot of men's clothing.
· 812 Pacific Elec. Bldg., Los Angeles.
September 7, 1947.:....Mrs. Ruth 1 large box of magazines.
Kreinheder, 662 N. Ridge Road, San
December 24, 1947-C o ch e 11 a
Francisco. I lot of clothing and shoes Lodge
No. 472, Indio. 1 box of dates.
for men and women.
December 26, 1947-Atascedero
September 10, 1947-W i 1 shire
Lodge No. 445, Los Angeles. 100 Mys- Lodge No. 493, Atascadero, by Chaplain E. Knutsen. 1 lot of clothing;
tery and Western books.
September 10, 1947-Mr. and Mrs. canned goods.
December 31, 1947-Porterville
Albert Sales, Brentwood, California.
Lodge No. 303, Porterville. 2 boxes of
Jam and Jelly.
September 12, 1947-Hunt-Hatch oranges.
December 31, 1947-F rank 1 in
& Co. 201-213 Franklin St., Oakland.
Chapter No. 20, R. A. M., Oroville. 1
50 boxes of apples.
September 25, 1947-Robert S. At- box of oranges.
December 31, 1947-Mrs. 0. 0. Orr,
kens Co., 150 Sutter St., San Fran1700 Broadway, San Francisco. 1
cisco. 1 box of straw hats.
September 29, 1947-Ralph E. Hol- large box of National Geographic
chester, 220 Santa Marguerita Rd., maps.
January 17, 1948-W. V. MarSan Rafael. 1 Carton of clothing for
quardsen, Foothill Lodge No. 504,
men.
October 3, 1947-W. E. Van Doren, 1321 54th Ave., Oakland. Package of
1543 34th Ave., San Francisco. 5 cases magazines.
of tobacco, 2 cartons of magazines.
January 23, 1948-Kessler Bros.,

368

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

739 Market St., San Francisco. Large
June 16, 1948-Mrs. Carrie D. Wagner, 5205 Manila Ave., Oakland 9.
lot of games.
February 3, 1948-Milton H. Ber- Geographic magazines. (two years.)
ger, 63 Melbourne Terrace, WaterJune 20, 1948-Arthur J. Teller,
bury, Conn. 4 scrap books.
P. 0. Box 68, Alameda. Magazines.
February 11, 1948-S am u e.l F.
June 20, 1948-Mr. R. H. Roblin,
Worswick, Secretary, Board of Re- Washington Lodge No. 20, Sacralief, Oakland. Quantity of Physicians' mento. Magazines.
Drug Samples.
June 30, 1948-Mr. 0. W. Brooks,
March 12, 1948-Union Iron Works, P. 0. Box 75 Fruitvale Sta. Oakland
1415 Front St., Sacramento 14, Cali- 1, California. New Age, Life and
fornia. 3 bundles of books and maga- Readers Digest magazines.
zines.
July 5, 1948-R. M. Lane, P. 0. Box
March 31, 1948-L. E. Bailey, Wal- 11, Sunol. Large package of magaton Ave., Centerville. 1 large load of zines.
cauliflower.
July 9, 1948-Mrs. Joseph SeaApril 2, 1948~Kraft Candy Co., graves, 2160 Middlefield Rd., Palo
2204 San Pablo Ave., Oakland. I
Alto. 2 large crocheted shawls.
large carton of Easter egg candies.
July 11, 1948-Mrs. Ethel de la
April 21, 1948-Mrs. Maud Ley- Montanya Newell, 411 Lester Ave.,
decker, 1144 Portola Drive, San Fran- Oakland. Large quantity of clothing
cisco. 25 typed song sheets and fold- for men.
ers.
July 11, 1948-Mrs. Myrtle KaufApril 25, 1948-Mrs. Maud Parker, man, Carita Chapter No. 115, 0. E. S.
1529 Gibbons Drive, Alameda. 3 car- Alameda. 1 electric card table.
tons of clothing and other articles.
July 15, 1948-Dr. L. Lee Krauss
April 25, 1948-Mr. Arthur Camp- P. M. Piatt Lodge No. 194, New York,
bell and Mr. R. I. Chadwick, Provi- N. Y. Set of 50 hand made scrap
dent Lodge No. 609, Sacramento. books.
Magazines.
July 16, 1948-W. A. Gerder, Paul
May 7, 1948-L. E. Bailey, Walton Revere Lodge No. 462. 350 Rolph St.,
Ave., Centerville. 3 loads of cauli- S. F. Mens' clothing.
flower.
July 17, 1948-W. C. Erb, PatterMay 18, 1948-East Bay Past Ma- son, California. Carton of clothing,
trons' Association. 7 hospital gowns. books and fancy work.
May 27, 1948-E. H. Ramey, 1015
July 25, 1948-John E. Weston, Rt.
Geary St., San Francisco. 1 Westclox 1, Box 527, Fair Oaks, California. A
variety of magazines.
·
Alarm Clock.
June 2, 1948-Mrs. W. A. Gerder,
July 29, 1948-Vallejo Assembly
350 Rolph St., San Francisco. 1 car- No. 3 Rainbow for Girls, Mrs. Ruth
ton of miscellaneous material for Brouss, Mother Adviser. Home made
fancy work.
cookies for entire Home family.

DECOTO CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND. 1947-48
Amount
No. Lodge
1 California ···········-······---$ 30.00
5.00
2 Western Star ..................
10.00
3 Tehama ..........................
5.00
8 Tuolumne ......................
10.00
9 Corinthian ......................
25.00
10 San Jose ..........................
2.50
12 Yount ..............................
5.00
13 Nevada............................
5.00
16 Eureka ............................
5.00
17 La Parfaite Union..........
10.00
19 San Joaquin ..................
10.00
20 Washi_~gton ....................
25.00
21 Hawauan ........................
20.00
22 Occidental ......................
5.00
23 Madison ..........................
26 El Dorado ......................
5.00
5.00
27 Trinity ............................
12.50
30 Golden Gate ..................
5.00
32 Gold Hill ........................
25.00
35 San Diego ......................
37 Howard ..........................
10.00
10.00
38 Santa Cruz ....................
10.00
40 Sacramento ....................
41 Martinez ........................
70.00
5.00
43 Hiram..............................
44 Mount Moriah ..............
5.00
45 Crescent ..........................
5.00
5.00
46 Texas ..............................
51 Illinoistown ....................
5.00
57 Santa Rosa ....................
10.00
58 Union ..............................
12.50
61 Live Oak ........................
25.00
64 Natoma ..........................
5.00
65 Amador ..........................
5.00
68 Morning Star ................
10.00
78 Calaveras ........................
10.00
79 Humboldt ......................
2.50
80 Ione..................................
2.50
81 Yolo ................................ . 2.50
84 Vesper ............................
5.00
87 Naval ..............................
25.00
93 St. Helena ......................
5.00
95 Henry Clay ....................
2.50
99 Yosemite ........................
10.00
101 Clay ······--·---··············-···
10.00
5.00
106 Arcata ............................
110 Pajaro ·····-··········----·--·--···
10.00
10.00
111 Chico ..............................
5.00
113 Eden ................................
25.00
120 Fidelity ..........................
10.00
122 Alamo ..............................
5.00
124 Table Mountain ............
5.00
126 Lafayette ........................
20.00
127 Hermann ........................
10.00
128 Visalia ............................
129 Nicolaus ..........................
5.00
131 Woodbridge ....................
5.00
134 Vacaville ........................
5.00
136 Pacific ..............................
20.00
139 Crockett ..........................
15.00

No.
140
143
144
147
156
166
167
168
169
175
178
179
180
181
187

188
191
192
193
194
195
198
199
200
201
203
204

206
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
217
218

219
220
222
224
225
226
228
236
240
241
244

245

246

247
253
254
256
258
259

261

262

264
265

369

Lodge
Amount
Curtis ..............................
5.00
Franklin ........................
5.00
Oriental ..........................
25.00
Eel River ........................
10.00
5.00
Woo'dland ......................
12.50
Excelsior ........................
Alameda ........................
5.00
10.00
Ri;dvyood City ................
Mission ............................
12.50
Antioch ..........................
10.00
Phoenix ..........................
25.00
Mendocino ......................
5.00
Petaluma ........................
12.50
Russian River ................
5.00
Keith ................................
5.00
Oakland ..........................
10.00
Marin ..............................
12.50
Santa Barbara ..............
10.00
Ferndale ........................
10.00
Mountain View ............
5.00
Buckeye ......................... .
5.00
Wilmington ....................
10.00
Hartley ............................
5.00
Truckee ..........................
5.00
Silveyville ......................
10.00
Confidence ......................
5.00
Salinas ............................
5.00
Stanislaus ..............._. ___ 10.00
Rio Vista ..:.....................
5.00
King David's ..................
5.00
Friendship ......................
10.00
San Benito ......................
10.00
S. San Francisco............
10.00
San Buenaventura ......
15.00
Oak Grove ......................
5.00
Monterey ........................
10.00
Mosaic ............................
5.00
10.00
Speranza ltaliana ........
Downey ..........................
15.00
5.00
Roseville ........................
Bakersfield ....................
12.50
Brooklyn ........................
10.00
16.00
San Mateo ......................
5.00
Athens ............................
10.00
Hills Ferry ......................
5.00
Colusa·······-------------····-·
25.00
Santa Ana ......................
12.50
Alcatraz ..........................
5.00
Laurel···--····-------------------·
10.00
Pomona ·-············----·······
12.50
Fresno ............................
Landmark ......................
5.00
Reading ..........................
10.00
Lodi ..................................
10.00
2.50
Penrhyn ···-------------·········
Evergreen __ ...................
12.50
Tuscan _ .........................
10.00
Lompoc .......................... .,, 5.00
Hesperian ......................
10.00
7·.50
Orland ............................

370

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount
No. Lodge
5.00
267 Galt---·-······--·-·-·········-······5.00
268 Durant ···---·--·-·----·-···-----·5.00
269 Olive Branch ............... .
25.00
272 Pasadena ----·-···-·------·-·-·-25.00
279 Hanford -----·-·------·-·--------5.00
280 Madera -····---··-·------···--···-10.00
282 Callayomi --·-·----·---···---·-10.00
283 South West --·--·------------·285 San Miguel ------·---·----·--·10.00
289 Elsinore ·-·--·-----·---·······--··
5.00
25.00
290 East Gate ...................... ..
292 Los Gatos ··--··-··········------·
10.00
293 Orange Grove ............... .
10.00
296 Silver Gate ................... .
10.00
297 Dunsmuir ......................
10.00
299 Liberty ............................
10.00
301 Ontario ............................
10.00
305 Azusa --··-···--···--·············-5.00
306 Ashlar ..............................
5.00
313 Tehachapi ......................
15.00
317 Fallbrook ....................... .
5.00
320 South Gate ....................
5.00
321 Alis al ..............................
5.00
324 Corona .......................... ..
10.00
326 Needles ........................... .
5.00
327 Long Beach ....................
25.00
328 Redondo ......................... .
10.00
331 Pacific Grove ................
10.00
332 San Pedro ......................
10.00
336 Fruitvale ....................... .
10.00
337 Carquinez ..................... .
10.00
338 San Jacinto ................... .
5.00
341 Oxnard ........................... .
25.00
343 San Fernando ................
25.00
344 Starr King ......................
25.00
346 Palo Alto ...................... ..
10.00
347 McKinley ·-··-··-------------··-10.00
348 San Bernardino ........... .
10.00
s
.
349
equo1a ......................... .
10.00
351 Palestine ...................... ..
10.00
353 Pinole ............................. .
5.00
356 Mill Valley ....................
25.00
359 Loyalton ........................
2.50
360 San Francisco .............. ..
12.50
363 Berkeley ...................... ..
10.00
366 Las Palmas ................... .
5.00
367 South Pasadena ........... .
25.00
369 Ocean Park .................. ..
12.50
370 Amity ..............................
10.00
25.00
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie
2.50
374 Jewel ............................. .
12.50
375 Richmond ......................
10.00
376 Francis Drake ................
10.00
377 Artesia ............................
15.00
379 Fillmore ..........................
5.00
382 Highland Park ..............
10.00
384 El Centro ....................... .
10.00
385 Dinuba ........................... .
10.00
387 Coalinga ..........................
10.00
388 Parnassus ..................... .
25.00
389 Palos Verdes ................ ..
50.00
393 Balder ............................ ..

No. Lodge
Amount
396 Apollo ............................. .
10.00
397 Rising Light ................. .
5.oo
400 Burlingame .................. ..
20.00
401 Bay View ....................... .
20.00
402 Brawley ..........................
10.00
403 Yerba Buena ................ ..
5.00
407 La Mesa ......................... .
10.00
409 Honolulu ........................
25.00
410 Charter Rock .............. ..
10.00
411 Perris ............................. .
10.00
412 Calexico ......................... .
10.00
415 Silver Trowel .............. ..
5.00
418 Elysian ............................
12.50
425 Holtville ..........................
5.00

426
428
429
431
433
434
435
440
441
447
448
449
460
461
462
463
466
467
468
471
477
478
479
483
486
487
488
489
491
493
494
497
500
502
503
507
510
511
513
514
516
518
521
525
526
527
530
531

~~'Dfuia~·:::::=:::::::::::::::

Pittsburg ........................
Alpha ............................ ..
Hammonton ..................
M
'
ar1copa
....................... .
Fairmount ..................... .
Standard ....................... .
Coronado ....................... .
Torrance ........................
Mount Diablo ................
Park ............................... .
Mount Oso ......................
Argonaut ........................
Paul Revere ................. .
Morgan Hill .................. ..
Libertas ..........................
Culver City ------------·-----·
Rockridge ......................
Delta .............................. ..
Temblor ......................... .
Thousand Oaks ........... .
Golden Rule ................ ..
Bell ..................................
Caledonia ..................... .
Vallejo ............................
Patterson ........................
East Bay ......................... .
Woodstock ......................
Atascadero ....................
Acorn ............................. .
Fremont ......................... .
Roosevelt ...................... ..
Harbor ........................... .
Point ................................
El Segundo ....................
Cupertino ..................... .
Sunnyvale ..................... .
Cahuenga ........................
Argonne ..........................
Taft ..................................
La Jolla ..........................
Piedmont ........................
George Washington ... .
Bay City ......................... .
Covenant ....................... .
Sun Garden ....................
Alexandria ................... .

5.00
25.00
2.50
15.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
2.50
18.38
10.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
17.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
15.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00

....

I

I

Amount
No. Lodge
28.50
Belvedere
.....................
.
539
5.00
541 Henry Morse Stephens
5.00
545 Jonathan ...................... ..
5.00
546 San Gabriel ....................
5.00
550 Seaport ............................
5.00
551 Lakeshore ..................... .
5.00
552 Semper Virens ..............
10.00
555 White Pine ................... .
10.00
561 East San Diego............. .
10.00
574 S. W. Hackett..: .............. .
10.00
575 Fort Crook ..................... .
10.00
576 El Cajon Valley..............
32.00
578 Progressive ................... .
5.00
580 Santa Maria ..................
5.00
581 Security ..........................
25.00
589 Kauai ............................. .
10.00
590 Compass ..........................
20.00
593 All States ..................... .
10.00
595 Alexander G. Bell..........
5.00
596 Guardian ...................... ..
25.00
598 Pearl Harbor ................. .
10.00
603 Dimond ......................... .
5.00
604 Jubilee ........................... .
25.00
609 Provident ......................
10.00
620 Point Loma ....................
15.00
629 Fairview ........................
25.00
633 Poinsettia .................... ..
5.00
634 Victorville ......................
10.00
635 Riverside ........................
12.50
637 Palisades ...................... ..
10.00
638 Indian Rock ................. .
10.00
645 A. F. E. Irwin ................. .
10.00
650 La Brea ..........................
5.00
661 Malta ..............................
5.00
662 Henry Knox ................. .
10.00
665 Kaweah ..........................
15.00
667 Meridian ........................
10.00
668 San Gorgonio ................
5.00
669 John P. Jarman..............
3.75
673 Far West ........................
5.00
675 Modesto ......................... .
5.00
676 Willow Glen ..................
5.00
680 Carmel .......................... ..
5.00
681 Dos Palos ........................
10.00
682 Barstow ......................... .
5.00
686 Albany ............................
10.00
690 San Carlos ......................

Commanderg
No.
Chico ......,........................... 12
Santa Rosa ........................ 14
Ventura .............................. 18
Naval .................................. 19
Mt. Olivet .......................... 20
Woodland .......................... 21
St. Bernard ........................ 23
Colusa ................................ 24
Visalia ................................ 26
Sari Luis Obispo ................ 27
Fresno ................. _.. ____________ 29
Pasadena ............................ 31
Mt. Shasta ........................ 32
Ukiah .................................. 33
Napa __________ ........................ 34
Eureka ----·-------·····---··----·--·- 35
Southern California ........ 37
San Francisco .................. 41
Santa Cruz ........................ 44
Redding .............................. 50
Whittier ................. ___________ 51
Auburn -·-------·-------------------- 52
Hollywood ........................ 56
Alameda ............................ 58
San Pedro .......................... 60
Calvary .............................. 62

371
Amt.
5.00
27.60
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
7.50
2.50
10.00
2.50
2.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
$265.10

Royal Arch

No.
Amt.
Chapter
San Francisco .................. 1 $ 5.00
5.00
Sonora ................................ 2
5.00
Sacramento ...................... 3
5.00
Nevada .............................. 6
15.00
Shasta ................................ 9
2.50
Sutter ................................ 11
5.00
Washington ...................... 13
2.50
Grass Valley .................... 18
5.00
Petaluma .......................... 22
5.00
Delta .................................. 27
5.00
Martinez ............................ 31
5.00
Naval .................................. 35
5.00
Siloam ................................ 37
5.00
Santa Cruz ........................ 38
5.00
Total ..................................$3,108.63 Donner .............................. 39
5.00
Chico .................................. 42
10.00
Visalia ................................ 44
5.00
Woodland .......................... 46
Commanderies, K. T.
10.00
Ventura .............................. 50
5.00
.......................... 52
Amt. Humboldt
Commanderg
No.
10.00
Ukiah .................................. 53
5.00
............................ 56
California --·------·---·-·-··----·· 1 $ 25.00 Keystone
2.50
5.00 Salinas ................................ 59
Sacramento ...................... 2
2.50
5.00 San Luis Obispo ................ 62
Pacific ................................ 3
5.00
10.00 St. Helena .......................... 63
Oroville ............................... 5
2.50
2.50 Riverside .......................... 67
Nevada .............................. 6
2.50
5.00 Fresno ................................ 69
San Jose ............................ 10
5.00
10.00 Alameda ............................ 70
Oakland ............................ 11

372

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chapter
No.
Crown ................................ 72
Hanford .............................. 74
Pomona .............................. 76
Ferndale ............................ 78
San Pedro .......................... 89
Berkeley ............................ 92
Fidelity .............................. 96
Redondo ............................101
Marin ..................................102
Ontario ..............................105
Mill Valley ........................108
El Centro ..........................109
Souh Pasadena ................ 112
Coalinga ·-·························114
Sebastopol ···············-····--117
Hollywood ........................120
Golden Gate ......................121
Huntington Park ............127
Searchlight ........................133
Wilmington ......................141

Amt.
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME

A.&A.S.R.

Amt.
California Lodge of
Perfection ...•..........;.................$ 12.50
Oakland Bodies .......................... 25.00
Sacramento Bodies .................... 12.50
San Francisco Lodge of
Perfection ................................ 25.00
$ 75.00
Dis:tric:t Officers' Association
Arnt.
39th District -·········-······-··-·····-.$ 10.00
88th District ................................ 10.00
$ 20.00
O.E.S.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
San Rafael ···············-·:-...215 $ 10.00
Mill Valley ........................219
10.00
Jewel ..................................238
10.00

$287.50

$ 30.00
Order of Rainbow for Girls
Assembly
No.
Amt.
San Jose ............................ 5 $ 25.00

Council
No.
Amt.
Sacramento ...................... 1 $ 5.00
California .......................... 2
2.50
Shasta ................................ 6
5.00
Gateway ............................ 13
5.00
Ventura .............................. 15
5.00
Pasadena ............................ 16
5.00
Fresno ................................ 18
2.50
Pomona .............................. 21
5.00
Siskiyou ............................ 24
7.50
Valley ................................ 27
5.00
Hollywood ........................ 33
2.50

Individuals and Miscellaneous
Amt.
Herbert Luff ·-···-···•·--····-·····-$ 2.50
W. L. Truitt................·-··-··········· 5.00
H. D. Dingman............................ 2.50
Eleanor T. VerkuyL.................. 5.00
Maude A. Fisher........................ 20.00
0. H. McCord.............................. 5.00
Charles L. Pioda........................ 10.00
Mrs. Anna S. Wheldon.............. 25.00
Kern County Shrine Club........ 5.00
Herbert John Fisher.................. 10.00
Frances Seligson ........................ 10.00
Douglas Ian Duncan.................. 5.00
John Richards............................ 5.00

$ 50.00

$110.00

Councils, R. S. M.

373

July 31, 1948
BOYS-45
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Anderson, Ray ........................ 7-6-38 Garden Grove .... 586 Garden Grove......16
Anderson, Robert Neil........2-25-37 Garden Grove ....586 Garden Grove...... 18
Anderson, Roy ........................7-6-38 Garden Grove ....586 Garden Grove ......16
Armstrong, James ..............12-21-47 Tyrian ·······-·······439 Manteca ·········-·····13
Armstrong, Robert..............12-21-47 Tyrian ................439 Manteca ·-·············11
Angel, Bill ..............................3-22-46 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles.......... 12
Ashurst, Ellis ........................2-22-47 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara. ..... 11
Ashurst, Larry ...........:..........2-22-47 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara...... 8
Order of Grand
Master
.................................. 9
Beard, Paul ..............................8-5-46
Order of Grand
Master
.................................. 7
Beard, Robert ..........................8-5-46
Order of Grand
Beard, William ........................8-5-46
Master
·-··-··············-······-···11
Bish, Clarence........................9-16-47 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma •...............15
Bish, Thomas ........................9-16-47 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ................ 9
Burkhalter, Charles ..............3-26-45 Mount Olive ........506 Los Angeles.......... 9
Burkhalter, William ............3-26-45 Mount Olive........506 Los Angeles.......... 15
Case, Dwight. .........................9-24-46 W. Los Angeles ..373 Los Angeles.......... 9
Clough, Charles ..................10-20-46 Wilshire ..............445 Los Angeles.......... 9
Connery, Dean ......................11-2-45 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 16
Darling, Truman .................. 1-28-48 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara .......... 5
Diercks, Donald ..................11-26-43 Golden State ...... 358 Los Angeles ..........14
Doherty, Frank........................7-6-44 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........14
Dyer, John.•..............................7-8-40 Yorba Linda........469 Yorba Linda.......... 14
Eller, Harold ..........................6-23-44 Meridian ............667 Glendale ········-····10
Eller, Harry............................5-24-43 Meridian ............667 Glendale ..............13
Farrington, J ack......................3-6-48 Montebello ........451 Montebello -········11
Johnston, Calvin ....................7-1-38 Lynwood ............600 Lynwood ,.............16
Jones, Harry ............................2-9-45 Blythe ................473 Blythe ................_17
Jones, William ......................11-2-42 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles..........16
Joy, Harry .........................- ...8-10-47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach.......... 6
Joy, William ..........................6-15-47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach..........11
Kotsenburg, William............6-11-40 La Mesa ..............407 La Mesa ·············--17
Marvin, Marshall ....................9-8-46 Azure ..................533 Fullerton ..............15
Mason, David ..........................7-2-44 Friendship ..........210 San Jose.......- ......• 9
Mason, Rollin ........................2-12-44 Friendship ..........210 San Jose............. _.15
Mills, Kenneth ·............... .:....11-17-40 Live Oak............:. 61 Oakland ................14
Parker, Lowell ........................9-5-41 Lamanda Park ..627 Pasadena ............-13
Parker, Ronald ....................11-19-39 Lamanda Park ..627 Pasadena ..............16
Pietropaolo, Benito ..............5-25-46 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles..........12
Place, Barry..............................8-9-47 Burlingame ........400 Burlingame .......... 8
Schelling, Eugene ................7-26-39 South Gate..........320 Los Angeles..........15
Tait, Robert ............................2-24-43 The Gardens ......621 Los Angeles.......... 17
Thompson, David. ...................1-5-46 Coronado ............441 Coronado ..............16
Trebell, Tom ..........................7-10-47 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach.... 13
Wallen, Carl ............................4-1-44 Unity ..................368 Glendale ..............16
Weston, Donald ......................1-7-40 John D.
Spreckels ........657 San Diego..............15

GIRLS--19
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Allison, Laura Mae................4-1-45 Ashlar ................306 Colton ···········-·······13
Allison, Linda Lee................6-17-45 Ashlar ................306 Colton .................... 8
Allison, Patricia......................4-1-45 Ashlar ................306 Colton ··············-···12

375

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Town
Ag11
Beard, Patricia........................8-5-46 Order of Grand
Master .................. ···-··········-··········----11
Biggs, Mary........,................. 12~31-47 Winnedumah ....287 Bishop ..................14
Burkhalter, Sue Jane..........3-26-45 Mount Olive........506 Los Angeles..........14
Clough, Sharon....................10-20-46 Wilshire ·········- -·-445 Los Angeles.......... 8
Darling, Mary......·- ··-···········8-26-46 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ......... 9
Lorain, Barbara .....................1-4-44 East San Diego.. 561 East San Diego....15
Offinga, Barbara..................8-13-42 Mizpah ·········-·····378 Los Angeles..........14
Offinga, Elinor........................8-4-44 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles.......... 9
Pearce, Joyce ..........................9-8-46 Atwater ·······- ····-622 Los A:ngeles..........12
Pease, Barbara Joanne........7-18-47 Live Oak.............. 61 Oakland ................11
Schoenefeld, May ..................5-19-40 Olive Branch......269 Tulare ···- ··········--- 14
Shaw, Luanna......................12-29-46 Torrance ............447 Torrance .............. 9
Turner, Carol........................11-6-45 Surprise Valley..235 Cedarville ·····-··---13
Weist, Nancy................ _........8-25-46 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles.......-.10
Williams, J eannette................6-2-43 Ione ···············-·-··· 80 Ione ·····--··- ---····--·.11
Williams, Suzanne..................6-2-43 Ione ...................... 80 Ione ........................13

GIRLS-5
D,Parled
A.gt1
Admitted
Bowman, Lorraine ·-·············-···8-31-45 7-12-48 ---·;·-··········-···-·······--·······---12
1
pumham, Faye..........................1-22-42
7
Bice, Edith............................. ______ 8-5-46
Speziali, Pearl ...........................6-26-36 7-12-48 - ---- --··-- ----···-···············18
Wallen, Jo Ann.-·····················:···-4-1-44 11-15-47 ·---·····-··----~----·-··-·-·-·····-···11

374

ADMITTED TO COVINA HOME
August 1. 1947. to July 31. 1948

BOYS-10
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Armstrong, James..............12-21-47 Tyrian ................439 Manteca ................12
Armstrong, Robert ..............12-21-47 Tyrian ................439 Manteca ................10
Bish, Clarence........................9-16-47 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma · ·····-········-H
Bish, Thornas............... _.........9-16-47 Temple ···-··········· 14 Sonoma ................ 9
Campbell, Gary Emerson....2-28-48 Service ........:.......594 Long Beach.......... 7
Campbell, William IIl..........2-28-48 Service ·········-····-594 Long Beach.......... 9
Darling, Truman ·····-···········l-28-48 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara......... 5
Farrington, J ack. .....................3-6-48 Montebello _......451 Montebello ..........11
Joy, Harry..............................8-10-47 Long Beach........327 Long Beach....... _ 5
Place, Barry ............................8-9-47 Burlingame ........400 Burlingame .......... 7

GIRLS-1
Name
Admitted
Lodg~
No.
Town
Age
Biggs, Mary.......................... 12-31-47 Winnedumah ....287 Bishop -·--·-·-------·14

DEPARTED DURING THE YEAR
August 1. 1947. to July 31. 1948

BOYS-10
Name
Admitted
Booths, Sterling IlL...................•6-8-46
Campbell, Gary......... _...............2-28-48
Campbell, William IIL. ...........2-28-48
Casabian, DanieL. ...................12-18-38
Fretheim, Richard......................4-17-39
Heyman, Harold........................11-9-39
Hughes, Gene..·-·························-7-4-41
Jones, Charles..............................2-9-45
Scott, Hal.·- ·-··-····················-··10-18-43
Weston, James........................... -.1-7-4-0

Age
D,PMted
9-20-47 ···-··········-··················-·-----=----14
4-15-48 ·········-··-···-······················--··-····-- 7
4-15-48 ·······································-········- 9
·1-29-48 ···-·············--···-··-···-··----.1'7
4-17 -48 ····································-········-··-17
1-20-48 ··············-··-·····---······-·····--·---··-1'
9-29-47 -····-··-····-·--··-··-··-·-·-··--··-··-·--·1'7
9-11-47 ··-··-··'···----·-·:.··········-··-··----17
6-11-48 ···············--········-············---··-··ll
8-27 -47 -··········-·-·······-·--···············-·····

Name

~=~9~: -=~--=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

..
I

OUTSIDE RELIEF UNDER CARE OF COVINA HOME
July 31. 1948
Name
I No.
Lodge
Daie Begun
Pilz, Theodore.........................:Alcatraz 244..................·- ····················--.Nov., 1946
VISITATIONS TO COVINA HOME
August 1. 1947. to July 31, 1948
December, 1947:
August, 1947:
7 Grand Tiler Alvin A.
10 Seaside Lodge No. 504
Horwege
10 Norwalk Lodge No. 315
14 Santa Monica Aviation
14 Bethel No. 47, Order of Job's
Square Club
Daughters
17 The Gardens Lodge No. 621
February, 1948:
24 Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389
22 Mount Olive Lodge No. 506
September, 1947:
March, 1948:
7 Southland Lodge No. 618
14 Bell Lodge No. 483
7 Reseda Assembly, Order of
21 Magnolia Lodge No. 242
Rainbow for Girls
22 Scepter Chapter No. 163,
20-21 Grand Master John R. Moore
Order of Eastern Star
and Mrs. Moore
24 Covina Lodge No. 33421 Vallee De France Lodge No.
Homes Committee
329
April,
1948:
21 Pasadena Lodge No. 272
4 Montebello Lodge No. 405
28 Annual Masonic Home
11 Hollywood Lodge No. 355
Alumni Reunion
11 Albert Pike Lodge No. 484
October, 1947:
18 Torrance Lodge No. 447
18 80th Masonic District
5 Amaranth 1945 Non King
Officer's Association
Association
18 lOlst Masonic District
5 Lexington Chapter, Order of
Officer's Association
De Molay
25 Utopia Chapter No. 441,
5 Lexington Lodge No. 104
Order of Eastern Star
5 Lexington Bethel, Order of
25 Seaside Lodge No. 504
Job's Daughters
25 Queen Beach Lodge No. 540
5 Lexington Chapter No. 172,
25 Mizpah Lodge No. 378
Order of Eastern Star
25 Victorville Lodge No. 634
9 Whittier Chapter No. 444,
Order of Eastern Star
May,
1948
19 Fairview Lodge No. 627
2 B. F. Goodrich Trowel Club
19 Atwater Lodge No. 622
2 Meridian Lodge No. 667
2 East San Diego Lodge No. 561
November, 1947:
9 Southern California Lodge
2 Officers' Association of
No. 278
District No. 87
9 Lankershim Lodge No. 542
9 Temple City Lodge No. 612
9 Glendale Lodge No. 544
9 San Gabriel Lodge No. 546
9 West Adams Lodge No. 565
14 Welfare Council Institutional
9 Santa Paula Lodge No. 291
Section
14 Highland Park Lodge No. 382
16 Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pentalpha Lodge No. 202
All States Lodge No. 593
Manchester Lodge No. 585
Moneta Lodge No. 405
Wilmington Lodge No. 198
Bethel No. 36, Order of Job's
Daughters
23 Bethel No. 34, Order of Job's
Daughters
27 Temple City Chapter No. 448,
Order of Eastern Star
30 Ramona Lodge No. 457
30 Florence Lodge No. 649
30 Clarence F. Smith Lodge No.
482
30 Ashlar Lodge No. 306
June, 1948:
6 James A Foshay Lodge No.
641
6 R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616
6 Glendora Lodge No. 404
6 Claremont Lodge No. 436
16
16
23
23
23
23

South Park Lodge No. 563
Rising Light Lodge No. 397
Guardian Lodge No. 596
Past Grand Master Arthur W.
Brouillet
20 San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668
20 Long Beach Lodge No. 327
27 Henry Knox Lodge No. 662
27 Van Nuys Lodge No. 450
27 Elysian Lodge No. 418
27 Hawthorne Assembly, Order
of the Rainbow for Girls
30 Grand Tiler Alvin A
Horwege and Mrs. Horwege
July, 1948:
11 Lynwood Lodge No. 600
18 Artesia Lodge No. 377
18 James Madison Lodge No.
572
25 Loyalty Lodge No. 529
25 Damascus Lodge No. 648
25 Monte Vista Lodge No. 655
13
13
13
18-19

ENTERTAINMENT

October 21, 1947: Birthday party
for Ronald Parker and Senior Boys
given by Lamanda Park Lodge No.
627.
October 24, 1947: Oranco Grotto
Vaudeville Party at Santa Ana.
November 2, 1947: Unity Lodge
No. 368-Program of movies presented by L. H. McNees.
December 17, 1947: Carmelita
Lodge No. 599-Christmas Party held
at the Home.
December 18, 1947: Monrovia
Lodge No. 308 and Sojourner Lodge
No. 607-25th Annual Christmas
Party held at Monrovia.
December 19, 1947: Unity Lodge
No. 368 sponsored Santa Claus at the
Home.
December 21, 1947: Barbara Brier
Christmas Party held at the Home.
January 1, 1948: San Pasqual
Lodge No. 452, Corona Lodge No. 324,
Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627, Pasadena Lodge No. 272, and Carmelita
Lodge No. 599-Hosts to children at
Tournament of Roses Parade.
February 7, 1948: Fezzan Grotto
Vaudeville Party at Whittier.
February 22, 1948: Program of
movies and stage show brought by
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506.

April 11, 1948: Miscellaneous program brought by Hollywood Lodge
No. 355.
May 14, 1948: Program given by
Los Angeles City Postman's Band
brought by Highland Park Lodge No.
382.
May 19, 1948: Birthday Party for
Lowell Parker and Senior Boys given
by Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627.
June 13, 1948: Picnic for Junior
Boys at Griffith Park, Los Angeles,
given by Ionic Lodge No. 520.
June 20, 1948: Picnic for Senior
Girls at Covina City Park, Covina,
given by Hawthorne Assembly, Order of Rainbow for Girls.
July 8, 1948: Picnic for Junior Boys
and girls at Penn Park, Whittier,
given by Estrella Del Este Club,
Order of the Eastern Star Chapter
of Whittier.
July 26, 1948: Picnic for Junior
Boys and Girls at Orange City Park,
Orange, given by Scepter Chapter,
Order of the Eastern Star Chapter of
Orange.
Picture show each Friday night.
Films donated by Loew's Inc., Warner Brothers, RKO Radio Pictures,
Inc., Universal Film Exchange Colwnbia Pictures Corporation, ' 20th
Century Fox.

377

DONATIONS TO MASONIC HOME FOR CHILDREN
August I. 1947, to July 31, 1948

Cavallin, W.-1 yr. subscription
Adams, Dr. H. W.-fresh peaches.
Readers Digest.
Albauman, Leslie-raisins.
Claremont Lodge No. 436-jams,
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No.
535-apples, $1.00 cash Christmas jellies, funny books.
gift for each child, set "The World
Coachella Lodge No. 476-dates.
Wide Encyclopedia," reference book,
Coats, Joyce-toys.
Shrine Circus tickets, new radio.
Consolidated Rock Products Co.Allmond, Allen E.-radio book.
400 lbs. barbecued beef.
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625Corona Lodge No. 324-peanuts.
jams, jellies.
Craftsmen Chapter No. 50-washAnonymous-hobby horses.
ing machine (new).
Arlington Chapter No. 418, 0. E.
Crawford, C. W.-books, games,
cards.
S.-drapes, new stove.
Creek, Mr. and Mrs.-tea towels,
Artesia Lodge No. 377-ice cream,
hot pads.
cookies.
Ascot Lodge No. 538-rug, rug pad,
Crouse, Russell-picture.
slipper chair, drapes, new radio.
De Malay, Pasadena ChapterAtascadero Lodge No. 493-canned Christmas gifts, apples.
goods, cookies.
Dingman, D. F .-canned goods.
Atwater Lodge No. 622-jams, jelDornblasser, C. H.-jams, jellies.
Dresher, Emily-scrapbooks.
lies, canned fruit, apples, toys, clothing, magazines, nuts.
Drew, Mrs. Frank-clothing.
Barnett, Fred N.-plastic samples.
East San Diego Lodge No. 561books.
Barringer, Mr.-tc;>ys.
Eaton, Cal-boxing gloves.
Barry, R.-toys, materials, miscellaneous.
Edison Masonic Club-dining room
lights, hospital bed lamps.
Bason, F. W.-2 pictures.
Estrella Chapter No. 412, 0. E. S.Beard, Colonel Paul C.-indoor
books.
baseball mitt.
Exline, Mr.-softballs.
Beckhardt, Mrs. Nina-clothing.
Belvedere Chapter No. 402, 0. E.
Fessler, A H.-balloons.
S.-plastic boats.
Fisk, J. K.-unframed oil paintBell Lodge No. 483-trains, jams, ings, frames, clothing, miscellaneous.
jellies.
Florence Lodge No. 649-jams,
B. F. Goodrich Trowel Club-jams,
jellies, canned fruit.
jellies.
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No.
Franklin Chapter, R. A M.oranges, olives.
509-toys.
Berger, Martin H.-scrapbooks,
Gabel, Alma-candy.
material for scrapbooks.
Gaon, Sylon, D.-candy.
Breaux, Edgar E.-6 card tables.
Garvanza Lodge No. 492-jams,
Brier, Barbara-Christmas gifts jellies.
for each child.
Gersh, Mr. A-candy.
Brownie Troop No. 5, LynwoodGilbert, Joseph-tennis balls, tentoys, dolls, miscellaneous.
nis rackets.
Bunch, Boyd-baseball bat.
Gough, R.-ice cream.
Carmelita Lodge No. 599-ChristGraff, Arthur and Wilbur-stove.
mas gift for each child, magazines.
Granada Chapter No. 442, O.E.S.Cason, J. A-Christmas trees.
Christmas gifts.
Canoga Lodge No. 611-2 sets
Griffith, C. J.-picture magazines,
book.
china dishes.

378

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Guardian Chapter No. 439, O.E.S.Christmas gift for each child, clothing.
Guardian Lodge No. 596-2 phonograph record albums.
Gunther, H. W.-bound comic
books.
Hanson, E. P ...-doll.
Halterman, Sr., J. G.-paper napkins, desk calendar8.
Hawthorne Assembly, Order of
Rainbow for Girls--clothing.
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647-cake.
Helen, R. J.-Christmas trees.
Helm, Joyce-candy, clothing.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662-jams,
jellies.
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458Tip-N-Turn toys.
Hokanson, W. 0.-1 year subscription Life magazine.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-canning of fruit.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355-jellies,
jams, clothing, candy, gum, fruit.
Honolulu Assembly No. l, Order of
Rainbow for girls--clothing.
Hopkins, W. R.-clock repair.
Horn, L. E.-Christmas candy.
Icide, Joseph-clothing, shoes,
magazines.
Indio Chapter, 0. E. S. Past Matrons and Past Patrons Associationdates.
James A. Foshay Lodge No. 616candy, gum, jams, jellies, cookies, 2
utility ru:bber balls, volley ball, tennis balls, canned fruit.
James Madison Lodge No. 572-ice
cream, candy, jams, bubble gum, jellies, cookies, canned fruit.
Jamieson, C.-bakery goods.
Jasmine Chapter No. 145, 0. E. S.homemade candy.
Jing, Fong Q..----6 card tables.
Jinniston Caldron No. 66..-door
chimes.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 34sachets, games, toys, funny books,
jellies, jams, books, clothing, scrapbooks.
.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 36jams, jellies, puzzles, toys, funny
books, candy.
.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 47peasant skirts.

Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 100jams, jellies.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 109Christmas gifts.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 135radio.
Job's Daughters, Campbell Bethel
U. D.-Christmas gifts.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 152books.
Jones, Mrs. D. A.-wheat boys.
Jungerman, Mrs. R. J.-clothing.
Kain, Mrs. John-jellies
Karb, M.-plastic fire trucks.
Keesling, Mrs. Frank M.-clothing.
Kendis, A. P.-National Geographic magazines, wooden toys.
Khayyam Grotto-6 card tables,
football, basketball.
Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672games.
Lair, Mr. and Mrs. Allen-apples,
cherries.
Lankershim Lodge No. 542-jams,
jellies, magazines.
Laswell, Mrs. Ralph-clothing.
Lewis, Harry B.-books.
Light, Will H.-jams, jellies.
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674-Crosley television set.
Lou Costello Youth Foundationbicycles, books.
Lou & Mac's Cafe-2 cases cocoa
co lo.
Loyalty Lodge No. 529-Philso television set.
Lupo, H.-tennis rackets,' tennis
balls.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600-jams, jellies, canned fruit.
Mahoney, Captain - tickets for
Sheriff's rodeo.
Manchester Lodge No. 585-jams,
jellies, clothing, games, toys, books,
funny books.
Mand, A. H.-rubber balls.
Manuel, Paul-tooth brushes.
Markey, Harold E.-gloves, 2 pictures.
Marysville Assembly No. 10, Order
Railbow for Girls--books, toys, clothing.
Masonic Home Club Chapter 1,
Glendale Chapter, 0. E. S.-dresser
scarfs, scrapbooks, doll clothes, suitcases for doll clothes.

•

Masterson, Mrs. Florence-Christmas gifts.
Mattingly, Mrs. Melvin-canned
fruit.
Mattlan, Dave--tickets for Mr.
America.
McAllister, D. W.-card table.
McFarlane Brothers Service Station-wooden dump trucks.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-jams, jellies, puzzles, toys, candy, comic
books.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308 and Sojourner Lodge No. 607-candy, $2.00
cash Christmas gift for each child.
Montebello Lodge No. 451-candy,
cookies, jams, jellies.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655-candy.
Moore, Guy H.-stamp collection.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506-Santa
Claus suit, jams, jellies, cookies,
candy, vitamin pills.
Nottingham, M. C.-$30.00 credit
on disposal service.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369-bicycles, bicycle parts.
Officers' Association, 80th Masonic
District-jams, jellies, dried fruit,
cookies, candy, canned fruit.
Officers' Association, 86th Masonic
District-6 waffle irons.
Officers' Association, 87th Masonic
District-$1.00 cash for each child,
washing machine.
Olsen, Mr.-phonograph records.
O'Neal, Mrs. C. B.-candy.
Orland Assembly No. 37, Order
Rainbow for Girls-Christmas gifts.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-olives.
Owen, A. G.-radio.
Palestine Chapter No. 210, 0. E. S.,
Past Matrons, Patrons, and Trailers
Assn.-2 cases fruit cocktail, one-half
case pineapple.
Palm Lodge No. 512-bicJcles, bicycle parts.
Palos Verdes Lod·g e No. 389-jams,
jellies, cookies, candy, ice cream.
Parsons, Mr. and Mrs. E. C.-clothing, Christmas gifts.
Pasadena Assembly No. 107, Order
of Rainbow for Girls-comic books,
crayolas, colored pencils, toys, cutout doll books, ·books.
Pasadena Beaucant No. 44-Christmas gifts, fruits, jams, jellies, canned
vegetables.

379

Pasadena Camera and Card Shoptin foil.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-magazines, books, jellies.
Past Master's Association of South
Gate Lodge No. 320-floor lamp.
Pauley, Mrs.-quilted slippers.
Peloian, Jack G.-raisins.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202-jams,
jellies, canned fruit.
Peters, Carl-candy, canned goods.
Pohona Lodge No. 689-andirons.
Pomona Chapter No. 110, 0. E. S.jams, jellies, canned fruit.
Potenburg, Miss Florence-6 dolls.
Powell, Douglas-Santa Claus table
decoration.
•
Powell, J.-tickets for Donkey
Baseball.
Rainbow Assembly No. 46, Oi:der
Rainbow for Girls-candy, clothmg.
Ramona Lodge No. 457-nectar
juice, candy, jams, jellies, canned
goods.
R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616-ice
cream, jams, jellies.
Reid, E.-jams, canned fruit.
Reseda Assembly, Order Rainbow
for Girls-candy, gum.
Rhoads, Charles E.--airplane models, paint, 2 wood wagons.
Richards, John-card table.
Richards, Mrs. E.-mill end wool
samples.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397-6 card
table, jams, jellies, popcorn, bubble
gum, candy.
Robinson, J. W.-magazines, books.
Robush, Bill-tickets for Mr.
America.
Root, Mr.-toilet soap.
Rothwell, Mrs. W. T.-pictures.
Royal Court No. 23, Order of Amaranth-popcorn balls, candies apples, popcorn.
Russell, Glen M.-clothing.
San Dimas Lodge No. 428--apples.
Sand, R. C.-picture.
San Gabriel Lodge No. 546-tin
foil, clothing, canned fruit, puzzles,
quilted slippers.
San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668-ice
cream, cake, softballs.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307-bicycles, bicycle parts.

380

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

381

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Savage, M. A-toys.
Scepter Chapter No. 163, 0. E. S.doll house, games, airplane models.
Schissler, H. -stamp collection.
Schneider, C. L.-dothing, barometer, miscellaneous.
Scudder, Jack- peanuts.
Searle, Gid J.-tickets to Covina
Little Theatre.
Seaside Lodge No. 504--hospital
solarium furniture.
Sellers, Mrs. J.---canned goods.
Shaffer, H. M.-tin foil.
Shearer, Mrs. T. R.-magazines.
Shiffer, Mrs. Mary E.-radio.
Signal Lodge No. 543-magazines,
rug, rug pad, radio (new), slipper
chair, drapes.
Smith, Mrs. Kirby-clothing.
Smith, Mr. and Mrs. S.-jams.
Smith, Mrs. W.---clothing.
Social Club, Lankershim Chapter
No. 403, 0. E. S.-door chimes.
Southern Calif. Guardian Council
Association-Christmas gifts.
Southern California Lodge No.
278-jams, jellies, puzzles, books.
South Park Lodge No. 563-jams,
jellies, color books, crayons.
Stafford, E. H.-ice cream.
Stephens, Keet-cook book
Stine, Harold- snapshot pictures of
children here at the Home.
Strand, Lt. A-Christmas stockings, cookies.
Sturn, Juluis C.-National Geographic magazines.
Tainter, Garro! A-radio.
Taylor, Mrs. Monrova- flowers.
Temple City Chapter No. 448,
0 . E. S.---candy, jams, jellies.
Temple City Lodge No. 612C!inned fruit, tin foil, clothing, magazines.

Thayer Hills Motor Co.-30 toy
autos.
The Alhambra Edison Masonic
Club-2 pair skates.
The Clown Club-wheat boys.
The Westerners--auditorium curtains and drapes, $5.00 cash Chirstmas gift for each child, telescope.
Thirngan, Mrs. K .-scrapbooks.
Trone, DeMont C.-doll.
Trumbull, Mrs. Minnie - quilt
blocks.
Tryon, Howard-stationery, miscellaneous.
Tucker, C. W.-1947 class p ictures
framed.
Unity Assembly No. 65, Order
Rainbow for Girls-books.
Unity Lodge No. 368-Christmas
gifts for each child.
Vallee De France Lodge No. 32912 boxes pastry.
Van Ness, Mr. and Mrs. J. L.Webster's New 20th Century Dictionary.
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450-jams,
jellies, canned fruit.
Vasarhely, Charles-National Geographic magazines.
Waller, Mr. and Mrs. Jack-clothing.
Weber, Dale-fruit cake. .
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373bicycles, bicycle parts.
Wetmore, E. W.-transfers.
Whilden, Walter R.-National G~­
graphic magazines.
. V{ilmington Lodge No. 198-jams,
Jellies.
Wisdom, Jack-bamboo poles for
fishing rods.
Yates, Hugh H.-picture.
Yorba Linda Chapter No. 347,
0. E. S.--4 card tables.
Yorba· Lindo No. 469--4 indoor
baseball mitts.

COVINA CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND-1947-48
Amount
Amount No. Lodge
No. Lodge
5.00
1 California ......................$ 30.00 143 Franklin ..........................
25.00
2 Western Star ..................
5.00 144 Oriental ..........................
10.00
3 Tehama ..........................
10.00 147 Eel River ........................
5.00
5.00 156 Woodland ......................
8 Tuolumne ......................
12.50
10.00 166 Excelsior ........................
9 Corinthian ......................
5.00
10 San Jose..........................
25.00 167 Alameda ........................
10.00
12.50 168 Ri:dvyood City ..............
12 Yount ..............................
12.50
5.00 169 Mission ............................
13 Nevada ............................
10.00
16 Eureka ............................
5.00 175 Antioch ..........................
25.00
5.00 178 Phoenix ..........................
17 La Parfaite Union ........
5.00
10.00 179 Mendocino ......................
19 San Joaquin ..................
12.50
20 Wash~gton ....................
10.00 180 Petaluma ........................
5.00
25.00 181 Russian River ................
21 Hawanan ........................
5.00
20.00 187 Keith ..............................
22 Occidental ......................
5.00 188 Oakland ..........................
10.00
23 Madison ..........................
12.50
24 Mariposa ........................
10.00 191 Marin ..............................
10.00
26 El Dorado ·--·----··------··---·
5.00 192 Santa Barbara ............. .
10.00
5.00 193 Ferndale ........................
27 Trinity ............................
5.00
12.50 194 Mountain View ............
30 Golden Gate ..................
5.00
32 Gold Hill ........................
5.00 195 Buckeye ..........................
10.00
25.00 198 Wilmington ....................
35 San Diego ......................
10.00
10.00 199 Hartley ............................
37 Howard ..........................
5.00
10.00 200 Truckee ..........................
38 Santa Cruz ....................
5.00
40 Sacramento ....................
10.00 203 Confidence ....................
41 Martinez ..........................
70.00 204 Salinas ............................
5.00
5.00 206 St anislaus ......................
10.00
43 H iram ..............................
5.00
40 Mount Moriah ..............
5.00 208 Rio Vista ........................
5.00
5.00 209 King David's ................
45 Crescent ..........................
10.00
46 Texas ..............................
5.00 210 Friendship ......................
10.00
51 Illinoistown ....................
5.00 211 San Benito ......................
10.00
57 Santa Rosa ....................
10.00 212 S. San Francisco ..........
15.00
58 Union ········--·--····-···--·---··12.50 214 San Buenaventura ......
5.00
61 Live Oak .:......................
25.00 215 Oak Grove ·················'····
10.00
64 Natoma ..........................
5.00 217 Monterey ........................
5.00
65 Amador ..........................
5.00 218 Mosaic ............................
10.00 219 Speranza Italiana ........
10.00
68 Morning Star ................
10.00 220 Downey ..........................
15.00
78 Calaveras ........................
5.00
2.50 222 Roseville ........................
79 Humboldt ......................
12.50
2.50 224 Bakersfield ....................
80 Ione ....................................
10.00
81 Yolo ................................
2.50 225 Brooklyn ........................
84 Vesper ............................
5.00 226 San Mateo ......................
16.00
5.00
87 Naval ..............................
25.00 228 Athens ............................
25.00
93 St . Helena ......................
5.00 241 Santa Ana ......................
12.50
2.50 244 Alcatraz ..........................
95 Henry Clay ....................
5.00
99 Yosemite ........................
10.00 245 Laurel ··-·-···-···-··-·············
101 Clay ..................................
10.00 246 Pomona ..........................
10.00
12.50
60.00 247 Fresno ............................
104 Lexington ......................
5.00
106 Arcata ............................
5.00 253 Landmark ......................
10.00
10.00 256 Lodi ................................
110 Pajaro ..............................
2.50
111 Chico ..............................
10.00 258 Penrhyn ..........................
12.50
5.00 259 Evergreen ·····-········-·······
113 Eden ................................
10.00
122 Alamo ..............................
10.00 261 Tuscan ............................
5.00
124 Table Mountain ............
5.00 262 Lompoc ..........................
10.00
126 L afayette ........................
5.00 264 Hesperian ......................
20.00 265 Orland ............................
7.50
127 Herman ..........................
5.00
128 Visalia ............................
10.00 267 Galt ··-··-············'---···········
5.00
5.00 268 Durant ............................
129 Nicolaus ..........................
5.00 269 Olive Branch ................
5.00
131 Woodbridge ....................
25.00
5.00 272 Pasadena ........................
134 Vacaville ........................
10.00
15.00 277 Selma ..............................
139 Crockett ..........................

382
No.
279
280
282
283
285
289
290
292
293
296
297
299
301
305
306
314
317
320
321
322
324
326
327
328
331
332
335
336
337
338
341
343
346
347
348
349
351
353
356
359
360
363
366
367
369
370
371
374
375
376
377
378
379
382
384
385
387
388
389
393
394

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Amount
Hanford ......................... .
25.00
Madera ........................... .
5.00
Callayomi ..................... .
10.00
10.00
South West ....................
San Miguel .................. ..
10.00
Elsinore ......................... .
5.00
25.00
East Gate ...................... ..
Los Gatos ...................... ..
10.00
Orange Grove ............... .
10.00
Silver Gate .................. ..
10.00
Dunsmuir ..................... .
10.00
Liberty ............................
10.00
Ontario .......................... ..
10.00
Azusa ............................ ..
5.00
Ashlar .......................... ..
5.00
Temescal ........................
5.00
Fallbrook ...................... ..
5.00
South Gate .................. ..
5.00
Alisal ............................ ..
5.00
Alhambra .................... ..
50.00
Corona .......................... ..
10.00
5.00
Needles ........................ ..
Long Beach .................. ..
25.00
Redondo ......................... .
10.00
Pacific Grove .............. ..
10.00
San Pedro .................... ..
10.00
West Gate ..................... .
10.00
Fruitvale ........................
10.00
Carquinez ..................... .
10.00
San Jacinto ................... .
5.00
Oxnard ..........................
25.00
San Fernando .............. ..
25.00
Palo Alto ....................... .
10.00
McKinley ....................... .
10.00
San Bernardino .......... ..
10.00
Sequoia ........................ ..
10.00
Palestine ...................... ..
10.00
Pinole ............................ ..
5.00
Mill Valley ................... .
25.00
Loyalton ....................... .
2.50
San Francisco ............... .
12.50
Berkeley ...................... ..
10.00
Las Palmas .................. ..
5.00
South Pasadena .......... ..
25.00
Ocean Park ................... .
12.50
Amity ..............................
10.00
le Progres de L'Oceanie
25.00
Jewel ..............................
2.50
Richmond ..................... .
12.50
Francis Drake ............... .
10.00
Artesia .......................... ..
10.00
Mizpah ........................... .
66.00
Fillmore ..........................
15.00
Highland Park ............. .
5.00
El Centro ...................... ..
10.00
Dinuba ............................
10.00
Coalinga ........................
10.00
Parnassus .................... ..
10.00
Palos Verdes ..................
25.00
Balder ........................... .
50.00
University ...................... 180.00

No~

396
397
400
403
405
407
409
410
411
412
414
415
416
418
425
426
428
429
431
433
434
435
438
440
441
447
448
460
461
462
463
446
467
468
471
477
478
479
483
485
486
487
488
489
491
492
493
494
497
500
502
503
507
510
511
513
514
516
518
521
523

Lodge
Amount
Apollo ............................. .
10.00
Rising Light ................ ..
14.00
Burlingame .................. ..
20.00
Yerba Buena ................. .
5.00
Moneta ........................... .
10.00
La Mesa ......................... .
10.00
Honolulu ...................... ..
25.00
Charter .......................... ..
10.00
Perris ............................ ..
10.00
Calexico ........................ ..
10.00
Arlington ........................
15.00
Silver Trowel .............. ..
5.00
Lindsay ........................ ..
49.36
Elysian .......................... ..
12.50
Holtville ...................... ..
5.00
Midway ..........................
5.00
San Dimas ..................... .
25.00
Pittsburg ........................
2.50
Alpha ............................. .
15.00
Hammonton ................ ..
25.00
Maricopa ........................
5.00
Fairmount ..................... .
10.00
Acacia ............................ ..
5.00
Standard ....................... .
5.00
Coronado ...................... ..
5.00
Torrance ....................... .
10.00
Mount Diablo ............... .
5.00
Mount Oso .................... ..
15.00
Argonaut ...................... ..
10.00
Paul Revere ............... ,..
2.50
Morgan Hill ..................
18.38
Libertas ......................... .
10.00
Culver City .................. ..
20.00
Rockridge .................... ..
5.00
Delta ............................... .
10.00
Temblor ..........................
10.00
Thousand Oaks .......... ..
10.00
Golden Rule ..................
10.00
Bell ................................. .
10.00
Chowchilla ................... .
25.00
Caledonia ........................
17.50
Vallejo .......................... ..
10.00
Patterson ........................
10.00
East Bay ..........................
5.00
Woodstock ..................... .
5.00
Garvanza ........................
6.00
Atascadero .................. ..
5.00
Acom ............................. .
10.00
Fremont ........................ ..
10.00
Roosevelt ........................
5.00
Harbor .......................... ..
5.00
Point ................................
5.00
El Segundo .................. ..
15.00
Cupertino ....................... .
10.00
Sunnyvale .................... ..
10.00
Cahuenga ..................... .
7.50
Argonne ..........................
15.00
Taft ..................................
10.00
La Jolla ......................... .
25.00
Piedmont ........................
20.00
Bellflower .................... ..
10.00

No.
525
526
527
530
531
535
539
541
546
550
551
552
555
559
561
574
575
576
578
580
581
589
590
592
593
595
596
598
603
604
608
609
615
616

619
620
629
633
634
635
636

637
638
643
645

650
661
662
665
667
668
669
673
675
676
680
681
682
686

l..OOge
Amount
George Washington.... ..
5.00
Bay City ..........................
10.00
Covenant ...................... ..
10.00
Sun Garden ................... .
25.00
Alexandria ................... .
5.00
Alexander Hamilton .. ..
17.00
Belvedere .................... ..
28.50
Henry Morse Stephens
5.00
San Gabriel ....................
5.00
Seaport .......................... ..
5.00
Lakeshore .................... ..
5.00
Semper Virens ............ ..
5.00
White Pine ................... .
10.00
Craftsman ..................... .
25.00
East San Diego ..............
10.00
10.00
S. W. Hackett ............... .
10.00
Fort Crook ......................
El Cajon Valley ........... .
10.00
32.00
Progressive ................... .
Santa Maria ................ ..
5.00
Security ......................... .
5.00
Kauai ............................ ..
25.00
Compass ........................ ..
10.00
Tujunga ......................... .
18.00
All States ....................... .
20.00
Alexander Graham
Bell ............................ ..
10.00
Guardian ....................... .
5.00
Pearl Harbor ............... .
25.00
Dimond ......................... .
10.00
Jubilee ........................... .
-5.00
Granada ........................ ..
15.00
Provident ....................... .
25.00
10.00
Hemet ............................ ..
R. E. Dolley .................. ..
47.00
Neptune ......................... .
10.00
Point Loma ................... .
10.00
Fairview ...................... ..
10.00
Poinsettia .................... ..
25.00
Victorville .................... ..
5.00
Riverside ...................... ..
10.00
John Marshall ............ ..
50.00
Palisades ...................... ..
12.50
Indian Rock ................. .
10.00
Alta Loma .................... ..
10.00
A. F. E. Irwin ................
10.00
La Brea ......................... .
10.00
Malta ............................. .
5.00
Henry Knox ................. .
5.00
Kaweah ........................ ..
10.00
Meridian ....................... .
15.00
10.00
San Gorgonio ............... .
5.00
John P. Jarman ........... .
3.75
Far West ....................... .
5.00
Modesto ........................ ..
5.00
Willow Glen ................ ..
5.00
Carmel .......................... ..
5.00
Dos Palos ...................... ..
27.18
Barstow ..........................
5.00
Albany ......................- ....

383

No. l..OOge
Amount
690 San Carlos ......................
10.00
Total ............................$3,693.17

COMMANDERIES, K. T.
Amt.
Commandery
No.
Sacramento ...................... 2 $ 5.00
5.00
Pacific ................................ 3
10.00
Oroville .............................. 5
2.50
Nevada .............................. 6
5.00
San Jose ............................ 10
Oakland ............................ 11
10.00
Chico .................................. 12
5.00
Ventura .............................. 18
10.00
Naval .................................. 19
5.00
Mt. Olivet .......................... 20
2.50
5.00
Woodland .......................... 21
St. Bernard ........................ 23
7.50
Colusa ................................ 24
2.50
10.00
Visalia ................................ 26
2.50
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
Fresno ................................ 29
2.50
Pasadena .......................... 31
10.00
Mount Shasta .................. 32
10.00
Ukiah .................................. 33
10.00
Napa .................................. 34
5.00
Eureka ................................ 35
2.50
Southern California ........ 37
5.00
San Francisco .................. 41
5.00
Alhambra .......................... 48
20.00
Whittier ............................ 51
25.00
5.00
Auburn .............................. 52
Hollywood ........................ 56
15.00
5.00
San Pedro .......................... 60
Calvary .............................. 62
10.00
Total ............................ ..

$217.50

CHAPTERS, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
San Francisco .................. 1 $ 5.00
5.00
Sonora ................................ 2
Sacramento ...................... 3
5.00
5.00
Nevada .............................. 6
Sutter ................................ 11
2.50
Washington ...................... 13
5.00
2.50
Grass Valley .................... 18
Delta .................................. 27
5.00
Martinez ............................ 31
5.00
Naval .................................. 35
5.00
Siloam ................................ 37
5.00
Donner .............................. 39
5.00
Chico .................................. 42
5.00
Visalia ................................ 44
10.00
Woodland .......................... 46
5.00
Dixon ................................ 48
10.00
Ventura .............................. 50
10.00
Humboldt .......................... 52
5.00
Ukiah .................................. 53
10.00
Keystone ............................ 56
5.00

384

l

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chapter
No.
Salinas .............................. 59
San Luis Obispo .............. 62
St. Helena .......................... 63
Riverside .......................... 67
Fresno ................................ 69
Crown ................................ 72
Hanford ............................ 74
Pomona .............................. 76
Ferndale ............................ 78
San Pedro .......................... 89
Berkeley ............................ 92
Fidelity .............................. 96
San Gabriel Valley ........100
Redondo ............................101
Marin ····-····························102
Ontario ..............................105 ·
Mill Valley ·············-·········108
El Centro ..........................109
South Pasadena ..............112
Coalinga ....•.......................114
Sebastopol ........................117
Hollywood ........................120
Huntington Park ............127
Inglewood --···········--····----131
Searchlight ......................133
Wilmington --·-·················141

Amt.
2.50
2.50
5.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

Total ............................. .

$262.50

COUNCILS, R. S. M.

Total ........................................$164.60
CHAPTERS, O. E. S.

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Copa del Oro .................... 142 $ 15.00
Santa Clara ...................... 195
10.00
San Rafael ........................215
10.00
Mill Valley ........................219
10.00
Jewel ..................................238
10.00
Atascadero ........................344
5.00
Siloam ................................406
15.00
South Park ........................443
25.00
Total ............................. .

$ 45.00

Amt.
California Lodge of Perfection ···---···--···""--··----··----·····--·$ 12.50
Fresno Lodge of Perfection.... 25.00
Oakland Bodies .......................... 25.00
Sacramento Bodies.................... 12.50
Total --··--···-·--··········-··---··--·.$ 75.00
DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATION

Amt.
39th District ................................$ l0.00
84th District ................................ 20.00

$100.00

ORDER OF RAINBOW FOR GIRLS

No.
Apit.
San Jose ............................ 5 $ 25.00
Santa Maria ...................... 92
10.00
Colusa County ..................
9.50
Bellflower ........................
10.00
Total

Council
No.
Amt.
Sacramento ...................... 1 $ 5.00
California .......................... 2
2.50
Gateway ............................ 13
5.00
Ventura .............................. 15
5.00
Pasadena .......................... 16
5.00
Fresno ................................ 18
2.50
Pomona .............................. 21
5.00
Siskiyou ............................ 24
7.50
Valley ................................ 27
5.00
Hollywood ........................ 33
2.50
Total ..............................
A. & A.S.R.

88th District ................................ 10.00
93rd District ................................ 39.60
lOlst District .............................. 85.00

$ 54.50

INDIVIDUALS
AND MISCELLANEOUS

Amount
Herbert Luff ............................$
2.50
W. L. Truitt ..............................
5.00
J. A. Denby ..............................
5.00
Carl H. Whipple......................
10.00
Fred Berryman........................
5.00
H. D. Dingman....................... _.
2.50
Stephen Serfoza......................
5.00
E. H. Stevenson....·-················· 100.00
John M. Golden........................
5.00
So. California Edison Co.
Employeer - Masonic Social Club ..............................
25.00
Mrs. I. J. Weinreich............... .
15.00
William L. Miner....................
10.00
R. F. McCall..............................
33.00
Mrs. John D. Carter................
10.94
Frank Tlacil ............................ .
25.00
Monroe E. Northrop................
20.00
Six thirty-three Club..............
25.00
Clifford P. Hornbeck............. .
25.00
Kent Dawson............................
10.00
Jumbo Equipment Co........... 100.00
J. E. Verillot........................... .
2.00
Consolidated Compass Club
73.32

-,

385

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amount
E. Searle Wolfe........................
15.00
Mrs. Claude G. Pierce............
10.00
Whittier Assembly No. 78,
Social Order of the Beauceant ......................................
10.00
F. L. Stamey............................
50.00
Santa Maria Chapter No.
552, De Molay...................... · 10.00
George Tonney........................
10.00
John E. Speciali.....................
10.00
Albert Denser..........................
1.00
H. B. Atkinson..........................
3.00
Miss Hattie Stroh....................
5.00
John F. Warren........................
25.00
Mrs. Anna S. Wheldon..........
25.00
Kern County Shrine Club....
50.00
Bennie Cohn............................
15.00
John M. & Lolita E. Wood....
25.00
Douglas Ian Duncan..............
5.00
P. V. Lofgren............. ·-··----~--5.00
Gate City Social Club0. E. S...................................
25.00

Amount
Janniston Caldron No. 66Daughters of Mokana........
Wilbur Troy Moore................
Patrons' Association of
Orange County....................
Mrs. M. C. Kirk........................
J. E. Vuillot.........-...................
Roland Gough..........................
Past Matrons' AssociationBakersfield ..........................
Thomas J. Bradley..................
Hubert J. Babcock..................
Mothers' Club-Bethel No.
44-Job's Daughters............
Republic Level Club..............
Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Gollong..
Henry W. Coil..........................
Herman Van Duyn..................
Miguelita Circle (Lompoc)....
Chaplains' Association..........

50.00
25.00
59.15
1.00
2.00
10.00
5.00
8.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

$1,073.41

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ANNUAL

1
2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
19

California ......................... .
Western Star .....'.............. .
Tehama ........................... .
Benicia ............................. .
Tuolumne ....................... .
Corinthian ....................... .
San Jose ........................... .
Yount ................................. .
Nevada ............................. .
Temple ............................. .
Eureka ............................. .
La Parfaite Union ......... .
Mountain Shade ..............
San Joaquin ................... .

~~ rf:!~~~o~..::::::::::::::::::::::

22
23
24
25
26
27
30
32
33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64
65
66
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91
93

Occidental ........................
Madison ........................... .
Mariposa ......................... .
Georgetown ................... .
El Dorado ......................... .
Trinity ..............................
Golden Gate ................... .
Gold Hill ......................... .
Ophir ............................... .
San Diego ....................... .
Howard ........................... .
Santa Cruz ....................... .
Sacramento ..................... .
Martinez ......................... .
Los Angeles ......................
Hiram ................................
Mount Moriah ................
Crescent ........................... .
Texas ............................... .
Forbestown ..................... .
Illinoistown ......................
Suisun ·-·····························
Volcano ........................... .
Santa Rosa ....................... .
Union ............................... .
Gravel Range ................. .
Plumas ..............................
Live Oak ......................... .
Natoma ............................. .
Amador ........................... .
Forest ............................... .
Morning Star ................. .
Enterprise ........................
Bear Mountain ............... .
Calaveras ......................... .
Humboldt ....................... .
Ione ................................... .
Yolo ....................................
Vesper ..............................
Naval ............................... .
Rose's Bar ....................... .
North Star ·"················----··
St. Helena ....................... .

RETURNS-1948
General
Fund
$ 701.00
213.50
974.25
283.25
346.50
495.25
679.75
622.75
237.00
261.75
417.00
156.50
78.00
972.75
964.00
661.00
1,014.50
423.50
266.50
86.75
314.50
144.50
842.50
139.75
89.00
1,229.50
328.50
574.25
996.50
512.00
1,035.25
107.50
556.25
247.50
65.50
125.25
106.25
258.00
96.50
785.50
890.00
76.25
241.50
1,386.25
253.00
124.25
50.00
859.25
386.00
93.00
143.00
564.75
133.25
118.00
324.00
1,554.50
44.50
89.00
164.75

387

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$25.00 Homes $1 .00 G. W.
Contribution Contribution

$ 425.00
400.00
1,150.00
175.00
425.00
550.00
325.00
500.00
300.00
325.00
575.00
75.00
125.00
1,000.00
800.00
575.00
575.00
375.00
250.00
125.00
375.00
100.00
675.00
150.00
100.00
1,025.00
175.00
725.00
1,000.00
675.00
925.00
150.00
375.00
400.00
50.00
175.00
25.00
250.00
250.00
1,125.00
875.00

$11.00
11.00
29.00
7.00
14.00
20.00
11.00
16.00
5.00
10.00
22.00
1.00
4.00
32.00
21.00
10.00
12.00
7.00
6.00
3.00
14.00
4.00
15.00
6.00
4.00
29.00
5.00
17.00
22.00
22.00
36.00
3.00
11.00
16.00
2.00
5.00
1.00
8.00
10.00
32.00
34.00

300.00
1,300.00
475.00
275.00

6.00
25.00
14.00
10.00

1,200.00
350.00
150.00
125.00
525.00
150.00
250.00
450.00
1,700.00
50.00
125.00
225.00

32.00
6.00
2.00
15.00
3.00
3.00
15.00
42.00
2.00
5.00
7.00

Total
$1,137.00
624.50
2,153.25
465.25
785.50
1,065.25
1,015.75
1,138.75
542.00
596.75
1,014.00
232.50
207.00
2,004.75
1,785.00
1,246.00
1,601.50
805.50
522.50
214.75
703.50
248.50
1,532.50
295.75
193.00
2,283.50
508.50
1,316.25
2,018.50
1,209.00
1,996.25
260.50
942.25
663.50
117.50
305.25
132.25
516.00
356.50
1,942.50
1, 799.00
76.25
547.50
2,711.25
742.00
409.25
50.00
2,091.25
742.00
243.00
270.00
1,104.75
286.25
371.00
789.00
3,296.50
96.50
219.00
396.75

...

.

95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183

184

Henry Clay ..................... .
Hornitos ............................
Yosemite ......................... .
Clay ................................. .
Oroville ............................
Lexington ....................... .
Arcata ............................... .
Pajaro ................................
Chico ................................. .
Summit ........................... .
Eden ..................................
Concord ............................
Fidelity ........................... .
Alamo ............................... .
Sotoyome ......................... .
T·a ble Mountain ..............
Lafayette ......................... .
Hermann ..........................
Visalia ............................. .
Nicolaus ........................... .
Woodbridge ..................... .
Sincerity .......................... .
Vacaville ......................... .
Valley ............................... .
Pacific ·······-·······--···--·········
Crockett ........................... .
Curtis ................................
Grafton ........................... .
Franklin ........................... .
Oriental ........................... .
Vitruvius ..........................
Abell --·····························
Eel River ......................... .
Lassen ............................. .
Molino ·-·············--····--···--·
Woodland ....................... .
Keystone ......................... .
Harmony ......................... .
Excelsior ..........................
Alameda ......................... .
R~d"."ood City ..................
MlSslon ............................. .
Elk Grove ....................... .
Drytown ......................... .
Antioch ............................. .
Phoenix ............................
Mendocino ....................... .
Petaluma ......................... .
Russian River ·············-···
Arbuckle ..........................
Clear Lake ....................... .
Sierra Valley ................... .
Claiborne ......................... .
Evening Star ....................
Keith ................................. .
Oakland ............................
Northern Light ............. .

185
186
187
188
190
191 Marin ·····-·························
192 Santa Barbara ............... .
193 Ferndale ............................

General
Fund
107.25
128.75
575.00
118.00
407.00
652.25
300.50
493.50
553.25
55.50
487.25
496.75
743.25
487.50
237.25
166.50
279.75
274.25
716.25
148.50
216.00
137.75
254.75
111.50
791.50
770.25
103.50
140.25
185.75
494.50
145.50
367.00
290.75
276.25
233.50
330.50
38.25
30.75
660.50
209.00
732.75
938.00
194.25
53.25
410.00
854.00
152.50
436.00
150.25
110.75
77.00
55.50
71.00
57.25
215.75
1,286.25
112.50
715.50
447.50
130.75

$25.00 Homes $1.00 G. W.
Contribution Contribution

100.00
75.00
950.00
75.00
350.00
1,075.00
325.00
975.00
525.00
25.00
500.00
925.00
600.00
1,000.00
75.00
150.00
200.00
200.00
950.00
100.00
225.00
175.00
225.00
75.00
675.00
500.00
75.00
350.00
200.00
150.00
25.00
400.00
225.00
150.00
350.00
375.00
75.00
25.00
450.00
300.00
825.00
975.00
250.00
75.00
550.00
675.00
25.00
400.00
125.00
125.00
150.00
175.00
50.00
25.00
150.00
1.150.00
175.00
625.00
725.00
50.00

2.00
30.00
3.00
11.00
37.00
12.00
20.00
9.00
17.00
30.00
8.00
18.00
3.00
3.00
8.00
6.00
27.00
4.00
4.00
5.00
7.00
3.00
11.00
13.00
14.00
7.00
5.00
14.00
9.00
3.00
10.00
8.00
1.00
1.00
18.00
8.00
19.00
38.00
7.00
2.00
12.00
16.00
1.00
5.00
5.00
2.00
6.00
1.00
6.00
33.00
7.00
12.00
16.00
2.00

Total
209.25
203.75
1,555.00
196.00
768.00
1,764.25
637.50
1,488.50
1,087.25
80.50
1.004.25
1,451.75
1,351.25
1,505.50
315.25
319.50
487.75
480.25
1,693.25
252.50
445.00
317.75
486.75
189.50
1,477.50
1,283.25
178.50
504.25
392.75
649.50
170.50
781.00
524.75
429.25
593.50
713.50
114.25
56.75
1,128.50
517.00
1,576.75
1,951.00
451.25
130.25
972.00
1,545.00
178.50
841.00
275.25
240.75
229.00
236.50
122.00
82.25
371.75
2,469.25
294.50
1,352.50
1,188.50
182.75

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

194 Mountain View ..............
195 Buckeye ······-···················
196 San Simeon ..................... .
198 Wilmington ......................
199 Hartley ·-···························
200 Truckee ............................
201 Silveyville ....................... .
202 Pentalpha ....................... .
203 Confidence -······················
204 Salinas ..............................
205 Olivet ···········-···················
206 Stanislaus -·····················
207 Anaheim ......................... .
208 Rio Vista ·-·······················
209 King David's ···-···············
210 Friendship ···········-··········
211 San Benito ....................... .
212 S. San Francisco •...........
214 San Buenaventura ......... .
215 Oak Grove ·····-·················
216 Doric ·-·······························
217 Monterey •.........................
218 Mosaic ···············-·············
219 Speranza Italiana ......... .
220 Downey ............................
221 Inyo················-··················
222 Roseville ......................... .
224 Bakersfield ..................... .
225 Brooklyn ..........................
226 San Mateo ....................... .
228 Athens -····-······················
229 Solano ................................
230 North Butte ..................... .
231 Covelo ..............................
232 Janesville -·····················
233 Calistoga ·-·······················
234 Hope ·············-···················
235 Surprise Valley ..............
236 Hills Ferry ....................... .
237 Guadalupe ........................
240 Colusa ·······-··········-···········
241 Santa Ana -·····················
242 Magnolia -·······················
243 Eucalyptus ...............-.........
244 Alcatraz ·-·························
245 Laurel ···················-···········
246 Pomona ........................... .
247 Fresno ................................
248 Alturas ........................... .
250 Adin ·-··-···························
253 Landmark ........................
254 Reading ............................
255 Welcome ···················-·····
256 Lodi ................................... .
258 Penrhyn ............................
259 Evergreen -·····-···············
260 King Solomon's ·········-···
261 Tuscan ···························-·
262 Lompoc ............................
264 Hesperian .......•................

General
Fund
440.25
183.50
155.50
735.25
341.50
133.50
204.50
753.75
72.75
632.50
152.50
752.00
550.00
207.50
540.75
930.75
195.50
333.25
528.50
814.75
662.25
334.50
237.75
404.25
655.25
215.50
425.25
1,072.25
797.75
598.25
179.75
775.25
242.50
89.50
203.75
155.25
160.75
92.75
218.25
182.00
199.00
732.50
529.50
537.50
851.25
289.00
531.25
878.50
208.50
120.00
143.00
258.75
243.25
479.75
207.50
819.75
674.25
98.50
245.00
465.25

$25.00Homes $1.00G.W.
Contribution Contribution Total
425.00
11.00
876.25
125.00
5.00
313.50
150.00
3.00
308.50
950.00
29.00
1,714.25
500.00
16.00
857.50
200.00
5.00
338.50
250.00
8.00
462.50
300.00
2.00
1,055.75
125.00
197.75
625.00
17.00
1,274.50
6.00
175.00
333.50
700.00
22.00
1,474.00
525.00
14.00
1,089.00
175.00
5.00
387.50
375.00
7.00
922.75
725.00
18.00
1,673.75
200.00
8.00
403.50
225.00
7.00
565.25
350.00
10.00
888.50
600.00
20.00
1,434.75
550.00
11.00
1,223.25
250.00
5.00
589.50
225.00
10.00
472.75
200.00
8.00
612.25
525.00
15.00
1,195.25
175.00
4.00
394.50
375.00
10.00
810.25
1,675.00
66.00
2,813.25
525.00
12.00
1,334.75
850.00
21.00
1,469.25
175.00
2.00
356.75
525.00
11.00
1,311.25
225.00
9.00
476.50
100.00
4.00
193.50
350.00
12.00
565.75
225.00
6.00
386.25
50.00
1.00
211.75
25.00
1.00
118.75
475.00
19.00
712.25
225.00
7.00
414.00
50.00
249.00
600.00
16.00
1,348.50
825.00
17.00
1,371.50
600.00
7.00
1,144.50
1,175.00
20.00
2,046.25
100.00
1.00
390.00
700.00
15.00
1,246.25
675.00
25.00
1,578.50
225.00
9.00
442.50
75.00
3.00
198.00
75.00
3.00
221.00
200.00
3.00
461.75
150.00
3.00
396.25
425.00
11.00
915.75
250.00
9.00
466.50
775.00
17.00
1,611.75
700.00
19.00
1,393.25
25.00
1.00
124.50
275.00
6.00
526.00
525.00
15.00
1,005.25

..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329

Orland ..............................
North East ........................
Galt ....................................
Durant ............................. .
Olive Branch ..................
Snow Mountain ............. .
Pasadena ......................... .
Anchor ............................. .
Arroyo ............................. .
Oakdale ........................... .
Sel.Jna ............................... .
So. California ................. .
Hanford ............................
Madera ............................. .
Mount Shasta ..................
CQlayomi ......................... .
South West ..................... .
San Miguel ......................
Paso Robles ......................
Winnedwnah ..................
Maxwell ·······-···················
Elsinore ........................... .
East Gate ....................... .
Santa Paula ....................
Los Gatos ......................... .
Orange Grove ................. .
Traver ............................. .
Mt. Jackson ..................... .
Silver Gate ..................... .
Dunsmuir ........................
Liberty ............................. .
Redlands ......................... .
Ontario ..............................
Santa Lucia ......................
Porterville ........................
Reedley ........................... .
Azusa ............................... .
Ashlar ·-······················· .. ····
Santa Monica ................. .
Monrovia ......................... .
Delano ..............................
Sisson·-·····························
Los Banos ........................
Tehachapi ....................... .
Temescal ..........................
Norwalk ·······-···················
Sanger ............................. .
Fallbrook ....................... .
Emanuel ........................... .
Hollenbeck ..................... .
South Gate ..................... .
Alisal ................................
Alhambra ......................... .
Whittier ............................
Corona ............................. .
Consuelo ..........................
Needles ............................. .
Long Beach ..................... .
Dedondo ............................
Vallee de France ........... .

General
Fund
219.75
73.50
95.25
733.25
371.50
47.25
714.25
710.75
169.75
218.50
264.75
685.50
267.75
340.50
103.25
80.50
496.25
67.00
293.00
240.50
95.50
226.25
1,125.25
443.50
368.75
316.25
183.00
168.50
1,542.50
415.25
391.00
544.00
489.00
204.25
618.00
207.25
288.75
340.25
522.00
381.50
292.25
153.50
183.75
244.00
247.75
313.75
393.75
161.75
106.25
1,457.75
904.25
186.75
834.00
825.75
638.25
308.25
476.00
783.25
572.75
158.50

$25.00Homes $1 .00G.W.
Contribution Contribution
200.00
7.00
100.00
3.00
25.00
1.00
11.00
475.00
325.00
9.00
50.00
775.00
21.00
1,000.00
30.00
150.00
3.00
175.00
7.00
200.00
3.00
625.00
18.00
325.00
9.00
525.00
8.00
100.00
4.00
75.00
650.00
21.00
50.00
2.00
275.00
4.00
225.00
7.00
125.00
4.00
325.00
2.00
850.00
19.00
450.00
9.00
425.00
12.00
275.00
6.00
150.00
6.00
200.00
8.00
2,025.00
46.00
625.00
25.00
125.00
1.00
425.00
11.00
925.00
16.00
200.00
4.00
675.00
17.00
200.00
7.00
225.00
6.00
275.00
10.00
750.00
21.00
550.00
13.00
225.00
4.00
125.00
5.00
175.00
7.00
200.00
3.00
300.00
8.00
475.00
12.00
250.00
8.00
250.00
3.00
125.00
5.00
750.00
26.00
800.00
21.00
250.00
3.00
1,125.00
42.00
875.00
15.00
475.00
12.00
500.00
16.00
475.00
19.00
675.00
13.00
675.00
16.00
200.00
6.00

389
Total
426.75
176.50
121.25
1,219.25
705.50
97.25
1,510.25
1.740.75
322.75
400.50
467.75
1.328.50
601.75
873.50
207.25
155.50
1,167.25
119.00
572.00
472.50
224.50
553.25
1,994.25
902.50
805.75
597.25
339.00
376.50
3,613.50
1,065.25
517.00
980.00
1,430.00
408.25
1,310.00
414.25
519.75
625.25
1,293.00
944.50
521.25
283.50
365.75
447.00
555.75
800.75
651.75
414.75
236.25
2,233.75
1,725.25
439.75
2,001.00
1,715.75
1,125.25
824.25
970.00
1,471.25
1,263.75
364.50

390

330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPpRNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

.

Kilauea ..............................
Pacific Grove ..................
San Pedro ........................
.
cAlta
. ...................................
ovma
..............................
West Gate ·········'··············
Fruitvale ..........................
Carquinez ........................
San Jacinto ......................
Fullerton ..........................
Oxnard ..............................
San Fernando ..................
Starr King ........................
Brentwood ........................
Palo Alto ..........................
McKinley ............................
Bernardino ..............
sSan
. ............................
equo1a
Palestine ..........................
Sunset ................................
Pinole ................................
Presidio ............................
Hollywood ........................
Mill Valley ......................
Buena Park ......................
Golden State ....................
Loyalton ..........................
San Francisco ..................
Fort Bragg ........................
Charity ..............................
Berkeley ..........................
Willits ................................
Las Palmas ......................
South Pasadena ..............
Unity ................................
Ocean Park ......................
Amity ································
le Progres de L'Oceanie
Gardena ............................
West Los Angeles ..........
Jewel ................................
Richmond ........................
Francis Drake ..................
Artesia ···········-·················
Mizpah ..............................
Fillmore ............................
Huntington Beach ..........
Oceanside ........................
Highland Park ................
Orosi ·······················-·········
El Centro ..........................
Dinuba ..............................
Coalinga ............................
Parnassus ........................
Palos Verdes ....................
Imperial ............................
East Belt ..........................
West Lake ........................
Ba~der .·························-···
Umvers1ty ......................

General $25.00 Homes $1.00 G. W.
Contribution Contribution
Fund
11.00
334.25
325.00
23.00
625.00
319.00
13.00
325.00
692.25
6.00
125.00
107.25
11.00
375.00
399.00
15.00
1,125.00
1,331.00
17.00
825.00
1,219.00
6.00
300.00
259.75
7.00
200.00
140.00
14.00
400.00
495.00
15.00
850.00
541.00
19.00
775.00
626.50
11.00
450.00
723.25
2.00
100.00
160.00
14.00
550.00
821.75
14.00
700.00
637.50
17.00
900.00
919.50
10.00
1,400.00
1,402.25
16.00
600.00
791.50
6.00
350.00
538.75
18.00
450.00
244.00
9.00
475.00
736.75
35.00
1,400.00
1,500.00
7.00
650.00
581.00
7.00
300.00
272.00
23.00
850.00
1,185.75
1.00
25.00
101.75
6.00
350.00
419.50
3.00
100.00
162.50
3.00
75.00
179.50
29.00
800.00
901.25
6.00
150.00
196.50
14.00
1,525.00
1,299.25
21.00
700.00
766.00
18.00
775.00
813.00
13.00
625.00
632.75
8.00
300.00
614.50
12.00
700.00
861.00
26.00
800.00
427.25
23.00
650.00
515.00
9.00
425.00
249.00
3.00
350.00
736.25
275.00
9.00
403.75
10.00
275.00
197.50
6.00
325.00
565.25
295.25 .
7.00
250.00
10.00
375.00
410.00
22.00
725.00
388.75
24.00
900.00
793.25
8.00
275.00
180.75
14.00
600.00
493.50
5.00
475.00
374.75
21.00
443.00
600.00
19.00
900.00
967.25
15.00
800.00
969.75
9.00
225.00
163.50
4.00
100.00
113.00
16.00
550.00
1,290.00
7.00
500.00
655.50
7.00
300.00
793.00

Total
670.25
967.00
1,030.25
238.25
785.00
2,471.00
2,061.00
565.75
347.00
909.00
1,406.00
1,420.50
1,184.25
262.00
1,385.75
1,351.50
1,836.50
2,812.25
1,407.50
894.75
712.00
1,220.75
2,935.00
1,238.00
579.00
2,058.75
127.75
775.50
265.50
257.50
1,730.25
352.50
2,838.25
1,487.00
1,606.00
1,270.75
922.50
1,573.00
1,253.25
1,188.00
683.00
1,089.25
687.75
482.50
896.25
552.25
795.00
1,135.75
1,717.25
463.75
1,107.50
854.75
1,064.00
1,886.25
1,784.75
397.50
217.00
1,856.00
1,162.50
1,100.00

395 Turlock ............................
396 Apollo ................................
397 Rising Light ....................
399 Fraternity ........................
400 Burlingame ......................
401 Bay View ..........................
402 Brawley ............................
403 Yerba Buena ....................
404 Glendora ..........................
405 Moneta ..............................
406 Burbank ............................
407 La Mesa ............................
408 Sierra Madre ..................
409 Honolulu ..........................
410 Charter Rock ..................
411 Perris ................................
412 Calexico ............................
414 Arlington ..........................
415 Silver Trowel ..................
416 Lindsay ............................
417 Clovis ·························-·····
418 Elysian ..............................
419 Upland ..............................
420 Kerman ............................
421 Inglewood ........................
422 Eagle Rock ......................
423 York ..................................
424 Exeter ..............................
425 Holtville ·······-·················
426 Midway ............................
427 Chino Valley ....................
428 San Dimas ........................
429 Pittsburg ..........................
430 Mccloud ..........................
431 Alpha ................................
433 Hammonton ....................
434 Maricopa ..........................
435 Fairmount ........................
436 Claremont ....................... .
437 Lancaster ..........................
438 Acacia ..............................
439 Tyrian ..............................
440 Standard ..........................
441 Coronado ..........................
442 Blackmer ..........................
443 Schofield ..........................
444 Carpinteria ......................
445 Wilshire ............................
446 La Puente ........................
447 Torrance ..........................
448 Mount Diablo ..................
449 Park ..................................
450 Van Nuys ··--·-·····--··----····
451 Montebello ......................
452 San Pasqual ....................
453 Bethlehem ............----·······
454 Crocker ............................
- 455 Golden West ....................
457 Ramona ....._.....................
458 Henry S. Orme ................

General $25.00 Homes $1.00 G. W.
Contribution Contribution
Fund
375.00
15.00
438.75
600.00
15.00
614.25
2,125.00
54.00
1,352.00
400.00
10.00
593.00
1,325.00
26.00
844.50
1,025.00
26.00
769.00
300.00
10.00
249.25
1,400.00
1,106.00
250.00
7.00
187.75
625.00
15.00
987.75
1,200.00
30.00
816.00
1,000.00
23.00
632.75
275.00
9.00
144.50
550.00
13.00
471.75
450.00
13.00
477.00
275.00
10.00
207.25
50.00
203.75
350.00
9.00
514.00
17.00
575.00
504.50
250.00
7.00
299.00
775.00
13.00
522.75
250.00
6.00
612.50
225.00
8.00
247.50
150.00
4.00
122.50
1,125.00
41.00
931.50
500.00
16.00
593.50
750.00
10.00
472.25
125.00
3.00
256.25
225.00
5.00
180.75
750.00
25.00
638.75
275.00
8.00
170.00
100.00
5.00
209.75
525.00
17.00
373.25
50.00
2.00
138.25
450.00
18.00
641.25
25.00
1.00
79.50
225.00
4.00
241.50
250.00
7.00
630.50
100.00
1.00
143.00
675.00
21.00
341.50
50.00
2.00
79.25
150.00
4.00
208.50
325.00
9.00
486.25
875.00
21.00
508.75
2,000.00
59.00
1,586.25
300.00
8.00
347.50
175.00
7.00
153.75
375.00
13.00
702.75
450.00
15.00
201.00
625.00
21.00
494.50
475.00
14.00
377.25
550.00
13.00
644.50
1,150.00
42.00
810.50
900.00
22.00
662.25
1,050.00
22.00
596.25
275.00
8.00
419.00
375.00
14.00
506.50
800.00
17.00
765.75
625.00
17.00
657.00
900.00
14.00
921.75

391
Total
828.75
1,229.25
3,531.00
1,003.00
2,195.50
1,820.00
559.25
2,506.00
444.75
1,627.75
1,046.00
1,655.75
428.50
1,034.75
940.00
492.25
253.75
873.00
1,096.50
556.00
1,310.75
868.50
480.50
276.50
2,097.50
1,109.50
1,232.25
384.25
410.75
1,413.75
453.00
314.75
915.25
190.25
1,109.25
105.50
470.50
887.50
244.00
1,037.50
131.25
362.50
820.25
1,404.75
3,645.25
655.50
335.75
1,090.75
666.00
1,140.50
866.25
1,207.50
2,002.50
1,584.25
1,668.25
702.00
895.50
1,582.75
1,299.00
1,835.75

392

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519

General
Fund
165.25
410.75
580.50
766.75
172.50
357.25
676.25
771.50
429.25
627.50
177.25
453.75
515.00
350.25
161.75
386.25
716.50
240.75
184.50
628.25
769.50
432.25
539.00
510.75
838.50
348.00
175.00
612.00
526.00
167.25
510.75
175.50
535.50
388.25
139.50
751.00
513.00
652.00
271.00
583.25
264.75
347.50
737.50
358.25
675.75
649.25
1,393.25
393.75
108.50
487.25
214.25
388.00
562.50
661.50
497.50
701.75
421.50
306.00
344.25
513.50

Riverbank -----------------------Mount Oso --·-··----------------Argonaut ···--------------·--------Paul Revere -------------------Morgan Hill ---------··--------Alta Vista ·----------------------Center ·--- ------------------------Libertas ·-···-··-----------·-------Culver City ------·--------------Rockridge ----·-----------------Yorba Linda·-----------------·Lincoln ----------------------------Delta ---·---------------------------Maui ·------------------------------Blythe -----··----------------------Victory ----------------------------·
America ------------·----------·-··Coachella ---------------·-·-·-··Temblor ·------------------··--··-··
Thousand Oaks -----·-··-·-·Golden Rule ·------------------Fellowship -------·-·-·-------·
Mt. Davidson ·------··--------Clarence F . Smith ---··---·Bell ------------·-·-------------------Albert Pike ··-----------------·-Chowchilla ---------------------Caledonia -----------------------Vallejo ---··-- -----------·-·-------Patterson ··---------------------East Bay ···-------------·--------Corcoran --·----------------------Woodstock ·------------·---------Garvanza ···---------------·------Atascadero ------------···-·----Acorn ··--·-·-----------------------Lebanon ·-----------------··-------Fremont ··-------------------------Stockton ···------------·---------Capital City ·--·-----·-------··Roosevelt ···-·-····-----····------Westwood -----------------------Harbor ------------------····-·----Point -·-·-··--······--------·--·····
Seaside ···--···---------········--·-Silver Cord ------------··-------Mount Olive -------------------El Segundo ····--·-v-····------J oppa -·--··----·-···---·-----------Benjamin Franklin ··-----Cupertino -·---- --- ------------Sunnyvale ·----····-------·---·-··
Palms -··-·-······-------·-······---Cahuenga ··--------··--·-·--·---Argonne ·····-··-·-----------------Vermont Square ····--·----·
Taft ····-- ·····-----·-···----·-·----·-·
Mount Vernon ------······---·
La Jolla ·----------------····-----Euclid ·····-····------------·-···--·-

$25.00Homes $1.00G.W.
Contribution Contribution
125.00
2.00
625.00
16.00
500.00
13.00
850.00
21.00
50.00
1.00
175.00
7.00
750.00
22.00
1,275.00
30.00
575.00
11.00
775.00
27.00
200.00
4.00
475.00
9.00
550.00
11.00
250.00
7.00
75.00
2.00
325.00
8.00
900.00
24.00
325.00
11.00
75.00
2.00
700.00
13.00
850.00
18.00
425.00
6.00
550.00
10.00
575.00
18.00
1,150.00
31.00
225.00
4.00
200.00
5.00
450.00
10.00
450.00
9.00
475.00
18.00
400.00
9.00
325.00
1,025.00
31.00
450.00
9.00
125.00
2.00
975.00
22.00
425.00
14.00
650.00
15.00
300.00
7.00
825.00
24.00
400.00
12.00
250.00
7.00
1,500.00
45.00
575.00
23.00
775.00
21.00
900.00
16.00
1,025.00
20.00
600.00
13.00
200.00
9.00
525.00
13.00
275.00
9.00
500.00
16.00
700.00
17.00
750.00
18.00
150.00
3.00
675.00
17.00
350.00
7.00
275.00
9.00
450.00
15.00
550.00
17.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total
292.25
1,051.75
1,093.50
1,637.75
223.50
539.25
1,448.25
2,076.50
1,015.25
1,429.50
381.25
937.75
1,176.00
607.25
238.75
719.25
1,640.50
576.75
261.50
1,341.25
1,637.50
863.25
1,099.00
1,103.75
2,019.50
577.00
380.00
1,072.00
985.00
660.25
919.75
500.50
1,589.50
847.25
266.50
1,748.00
952.00
1,317.00
578.00
1,432.25
676.75
604.50
2,282.50
956.25
1,471.75
1,565.25
2,438.25
1,006.75
317.50
1,025.25
498.25
904.00
1,279.50
1,429.50
650.50
1,393.75
778.50
590.00
809.25
1,080.50

520 Ionic ··-···-···-·····---·-·----------·
521 Piedmont ·--------·-····-··········
522 Sunrise ·----·-··--·--·····-·-----··
523 Bellflower ·····-····------------··
524 Catalina Island -----··-····-···
525
526
527 Covenant ----····--·······-------··
528 Beverly Hills ···-··-----------·
529 Loyalty -----·---------------------530 Sun Garden ----------·--·----····
531 Alexandria --·-····------------·532 Smyrna ·-··-···-·-··········-·--··
533 Azure --··--····-······-··---------··
534 Forest Hill -------······--·········
535 Alexander Hamilton ·--···
536 Seal Rock ········-····--·····---·-·
537 Utopia ·······------··------·-------538 Ascot ---- -······-----·-------------··
539 Belvedere -----------------------540 Queen Beach --------- ------··541 Henry Morse Stephens..
542 Lankershim -------------------··543 Signal ---- ··---·--------------------544 Glendale ---------···-----------···
545 Jonathan ---··--------------------546 San Gabriel ·-------------------·547 Arcadia ---··---------·---------···
548 Triangle ----------·------·-··-----··
549 Justice ····--·------··------------···
550 Seaport -----------·····-------------551 Lakeshore ·-··---------·------·-552 Semper Virens ···------------554 Educator ···- - ---------·--------·
555 White Pine ------·------------·-556 Fairfax ·-·------·-··------------··557 Hermosa --------···-------·-----·558 Point Firmin -------------------559 Craftsman ·---------·--------··-·
560 Plymouth ·-----···-·---------··-·561 East San Diego ---------------562 Pyramid ·····-·--·-·--------------·563 South Park ------ --------------564 Foothill ----·--·-----------·---565 West Adams -----------------566 James A Garfield ---------·
567 Searchlight ---------------------568 Park Boulevard -·-·-------·-569 Chateau Thierry ---------·-570 Military Service ----·-----·--·
571 Francis K. Shattuck -----572 James Madison --·······-----··
573 Hillcrest ·····--···-·-----------·--·
574 S. W. Hackett -----------------575 Fort Crook ---··-----------------576 El Cajon Valley -------- ----577 Sunnyside ·-------·--·-------·---578 Progressive ------·····-------·--579 Warren G. Harding -----580 Santa Maria ------------------·

~~r~Ity':.~~~~~~~~--::::::

393

General $25.00 Homes $1.00 G. W .
Contribution Contribution Total
Fund
2,376.75
1,400.00
4.00
972.75
1,159.75
750.00
27.00
382.75
1,258.50
775.00
20.00
463.50
1,277.75
775.00
18.00
484.75
337.75
150.00
3.00
184.75
1,504.00
850.00
24.00
630.00
1,384.00
875.00
22.00
487.00
916.25
450.00
15.00
451.25
1,468.50
850.00
31.00
587.50
1,232.50
625.00
23.00
584.50
1,207.75
525.00
10.00
672.75
440.25
225.00
5.00
210.25
260.50
125.00
5.00
130.50
650.75
325.00
10.00
315.75
512.75
275.00
9.00
228.75
913.50
575.00
18.00
320.50
354.75
125.00
3.00
226.75
1,595.00
625.00
18.00
952.00
715.50
275.00
7.00
433.50
529.75
225.00
4.00
300.75
5 64.25
300.00
6.00
258.25
772.00
325.00
6.00
441.00
2,521.50
1,600.00
45.00
876.50
1,397.00
750.00
20.00
627.00
1,988.50
1,100.00
29.00
859.50
365.75
125.00
2.00
238.75
1,909.50
1,325.00
49.00
535.50
1,134.00
675.00
15.00
444.00
842.75
500.00
15.00
327.75
1,113.50
600.00
14.00
499.50
678.75
350.00
8.00
320.75
947.50
550.00
17.00
380.50
927.25
575.00
15.00
337.25
1,068.75
575.00
14.00
479.75
400.75
250.00
10.00
140.75
1,669.50
1,175.00
36.00
458.50
1,064.50
625.00
17.00
422.50
889.50
375.00
14.00
500.50
1,335.75
725.00
15.00
595.75
1,133.25
625.00
16.00
492.25
2,095.00
1,150.00
23.00
922.00
1,001.75
600.00
12.00
389.75
867.75
300.00
10.00
557.75
2,952.25
2,000.00
43.00
909.25
818.50
400.00
13.00
405.50
621.50
325.00
8.00
288.50
1,548.50
850.00
30.00
668.50
980.50
475.00
11.00
494.50
974.75
500.00
15.00
459.75
1,215.75
725.00
20.00
470.75
769.75
400.00
8.00
361.75
1,538.25
1,000.00
26.00
512.25
144.50
50.00
2.00
92.50
1,678.25
925.00
21.00
732.25
291.25
100.00
4.00
187.25
894.25
575.00
11.00
308.25
1,030.75
425.00
16.00
589.75
1,574.25
900.00
24.00
650.25
1,518.75
875.00
22.00
621.75
325.00
175.00
5.00
145.00

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
640
641
642

General
Fund
505.50
203.50
361.75
309.75
501.75
244.00
476.50
589.75
170.50
326.75
176.75
311.75
706.00
962.00
376.50
982.75
727.50
401.25
499.25
193.25
289.75
368.25
437.25
541.75
237.50
915.75
522.75
322.75
273.75
479.25
519.00
508.00
208.75
282.75
186.25
397.50
339.50
692.50
556.25
471.00
962.25
258.75
837.25
417.75
305.00
355.25
336.50
233.75
385.25
722.50
707.25
248.50
440.50
399.25
477.00
263.00
462.50
155.25
318.00
283.25

Security ---------------------------Rialto ···--·-------------------------Wasco -----------·-------------------Harding ---------------------------Manchester ----------------·--·-Garden Grove ---------------Valley Forge -------------------El Sereno ----------------------·-·
Kauai -------------------------------Compass -------------------------Escalon .. -·------------·-----·------Tujunga --------------------------·All States -------------------------Service -----------------------------Alexander Graham Bell
Guardian ......................... _______ .,
Pearl Harbor -·----------------..
Carmelita -----------------------Lynwood ---------·-·-··----------Grizzly -------------------------·--··
Melrose ·--------------------------Dimond ------------------·--·-----Jubilee ·---------------------·-·--···
Glassell Park ·····-----·-·----Sojourner -----------------·-----Granada ---------------··-····---Provident ----·-·····------------Elmhurst -------------------------Canoga --------·--------------------Temple City ____ ,, ____ .. ________
Three Pillars .. ____ .. ______ ,, ____
Larchmont ---------------------Hemet .................
_______________
R. E. Dolley ·----·---.............
Big Bear ......... ·-·--------·----·
Southland ·-----------------·-····
Neptune ......--·-·-·-------------·Point Loma -----·---·--·---.. ·--The Gardens ·-.. ·--·-·-·---·---Atwater -----··-···----------------Menorah ...
______________ ...........
Fortitude -------------------------Angeles Mesa ..................
Chula Vista ......................
Lamanda Park ................
Truth ................................
Fairview ..............................................
Ingleside ............................................
Benevolence .....................................
Normal Heights ----·--------·
Poinsettia ........................
Victorville .......................................
Riverside ....................____________
John Marshall ..........................
Palisades .............................................
Indian Rock ..............................
Composite ......................................
Veritas ....................................................
James A. Foshay ............
La Cumbre .................................

$25.00Homes $1.00G.W.
Contribution Contribution
475.00
12.00
425.00
12.00
575.00
17.00
13.00
325.00
625.00
25.00
200.00
5.00
450.00
15.00
1,000.00
32.00
75.00
3.00
575.00
15.00
300.00
8.00
200.00
6.00
1,050.00
34.00
2,000.00
60.00
500.00
10.00
1,325.00
775.00
23.00
350.00
7.00
900.00
30.00
150.00
4.00
175.00
5.00
250.00
8.00
525.00
9.00
600.00
15.00
375.00
9.00
1,200.00
44.00
775.00
29.00
500.00
10.00
275.00
10.00
825.00
19.00
700.00
28.00
575.00
18.00
375.00
12.00
21.00
525.00
275.00
10.00
450.00
9.00
400.00
5.00
1,500.00
35.00
850.00
26.00
300.00
3.00
1,550.00
24.00
325.00
10.00
1,450.00
41.00
600.00
15.00
400.00
9.00
275.00
11.00
14.00
375.00
275.00
9.00
15.00
375.00
1,300.00
26.00
875.00
20.00
13.00
325.00
425.00
10.00
750.00
16.00
575.00
11.00
200.00
4.00
525.00
16.00
100.00
3.00
650.00
16.00
425.00
11.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total
992.50
640.50
953.75
647.75
1,151.75
449.00
941.50
1,621.75
248.50
916.75
484.75
517.75
1,790.00
3,022.00
886.50
2,307.75
1,525.50
758.25
1,429.25
347.25
469.75
626.25
971.25
1,156.75
621.50
2,159.75
1,326.75
832.75
558.75
1,323.25
1,247.00
1,101.00
595.75
828.75
471.25
856.50
744.50
2,227.50
1,432.25
774.00
2,536.25
593.75
2,328.25
1,032.75
714.00
641.25
725.50
517.75
775.25
2,048.50
1,602 25
586.50
875.50
1,165.25
1,063.00
467.00
1,003.50
258.25
984.00
719.25

643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680
681
682
683
684
685
686
687
688
689
690
691
692
693
694

Alta Loma ·--····-----·-··-·-----·
Lomita -----------------------------A. F. E. Irwin ·----------·-----·
Metropolitan -------------------·
Hawthorne ---------------------Damascus -------------------------·
Florence ····--·--------------------·
La Brea ··--··---------------------Menlo Park ·····--------------·-·
Crescenta Valley __________ ..
Fontana .........................................
Jordan -----------------------------Monte Vista -------------------Citrol ··------·····-----H•••••••o•o•
John D. Spreckels ---------Livingston -······------·---·-----La Habra ·············--·-------·-·
Baldwin Park ···-·--·--.. ----··
Malta ........... _............................ _
Henry Knox .. _______________ .. _
Ojai --·------······-----·--··--·---·-·-Kaweah ....................................
Reseda ..................... ________________
Meridian ····--······-------------San Gorgonio ------·--·--.. -·-·
John P. Jarman ... ___________
Greenleaf ............. _________ .. __
San Clemente ..... _.. __________
Laguna Beach ··-·---------··--·
Far West ....... _________ .... ______
Los Cerritos -------------------Modesto ......................................
Willow Glen ··-------·-.. ·--··-Liberal Arts -------------------Altadena ----·-··-----------------·
Canby's Cross ____ .. ____________
Carmel ·--·-···--------------------Dos Palos ..........................
Barstow -·-----------·-----------·Redwood Empire ............
Trana ....................................................
San Marino ......... ------------Albany .....................................
Vista ...........................................
Oildale ····-----····----------------·
Pohona ...........................................
San Carlos ........................
Indian Wells Valley ......
Travelers -----------·--···--------Palm Springs ...... ______ ,, ____
San Antonio ....................
U.D. Crossroads ........................
U.D . St. Elmo ............................
U.D. Meudell --------------·-······-----U.D. William D. Stephens ....

General
Fund
476.75
339.50
347.50
156.25
423.50
662.00
614.75
357.25
276.50
436.50
370.50
461.75
730.75
222.75
801.25
150.25
231.00
176.75
318.75
568.75
144.25
142.25
304.75
584.00
292.75
317.25
521.50
78.25
238.50
396.25
381.00
535.25
329.50
367.75
550.25
166.50
193.75
138.50
345.50
97.50
160.50
369.00
206.25
264.50
199.50
84.75
257.75
280.25
136.75
131.25
131.25
47.75
31.75
57.25
30.00

$25.00Homes $1.00G.W.
Contribution Contribution
14.00
625.00
13.00
575.00
11.00
400.00
3.00
125.00
8.00
825.00
21.00
925.00
11.00
500.00
7.00
275.00
12.00
500.00
12.00
575.00
775.00
21.00
775.00
21.00
15.00
875.00
6.00
225.00
25.00
1,150.00
250.00
10.00
11.00
350.00
11.00
325.00
24.00
700.00
11.00
550.00
7.00
350.00
7.00
250.00
14.00
450.00
23.00
750.00
11.00
375.00
19.00
575.00
9.00
400.00
2.00
50.00
9.00
350.00
15.00
650.00
750.00
31.00
20.00
875.00
7.00
300.00
22.00
650.00
17.00
925.00
150.00
5.00
6.00
325.00
7.00
250.00
675.00
24.00
250.00
9.00
3.00
100.00
300.00
7.00
15.00
500.00
13.00
525.00
650.00
22.00
5.00
150.00
17.00
725.00
15.00
925.00
12.00
725.00
625.00
19.00
16.00
775.00
14.00
625.00
150.00
6.00
200.00
6.00
4.00
100.00

395
Total
1,115.75
927.50
758.50
284.25
1,256.50
1,608.00
1,125.75
639.25
788.50
1,023.50
1,166.50
1,257.75
1,620.75
453.75
1,976.25
410.25
592.00
512.75
1,042.75
1,129.75
501.25
399.25
768.75
1,357.00
678.75
911.25
930.50
130.25
597.50
1,061.25
1,162.00
1,430.25
636.50
1,039.75
1,492.25
321.50
524.75
395.50
1,044.50
356.50
263.50
676.00
721.25
802.50
871.50
239.75
999.75
1,220.25
873.75
775.25
922.25
686.75
187.75
263.25
134.00

Totals ............................ $260,081.00 $294,050.00 $7,664.00 $561, 795.00

GENERAL APPENDIX

396

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

STANDING

397

COMMITTEES*

JURISPRUDENCE

GENERAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Page
Standing Commlttees.. - .. :··········-··················-·······································397
Special Commtttea...................,.......................................................~......399
Constitutional Boerda..................:..........•.............•.............•.............~......401
Directors of Masonic Clubhouses..........................................................402
Registration and Mileage Paymen~ ........................ ~............................403
List of Constituent Lodgea__ ................•. ·-··········-································~436
Extinct ~.......~············---·········································-·-·······-·-·-· 44 7
Elected Offlcers Grand Lodge Since Organization..............................451
List of ~-·-··············-·········-·····················-···--········-·············457
Foreign Grand f.odgea. ..................,..,................- ..••..•...- .•........•.......-.460
Alphabetical List of Loclga............•.•.......•..................•....~ ..•.~.............•.464

John Stewart Ross .............·-···-·····-·-··--··-·······-·.1017 El Paso Drive, Los Angeles 42
Oscar Lawler---···························-·····················800 Standard Oil Building, Los Angeles 15
George L. Jones...----··-··-----··-·
Nevada City
Robert B. Gaylord...........-----------··-·····-···-····--·····--~--...Ruu Bldg .. San Francisco 4
Earl Warren.·-·-·······················-··-···-········-·-·---·-··--·--·····State Capitol, Sacramento
John W. Shenk....·-··--------···-············-···--·········-:._state Bldg., San Francisco 2
John R. Moore------····--·······················-·-······-···-·---453 So. Sprin9 St., Los Angeles 13

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
William Rhodes Hervey..·-·····-·-----······-············----458 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Will H. Flaher.......- ..·--·····················-----····--·123 So. Mariposa Ave., Los Angeles 4
William B. Ogden.............·-············-············725 Bank of America Bldg., Los Angeles 14
Rollie W. Mlller.... _............................................Associated Realty Bldg.. Los Angeles 14
Leslie E. Wood.-········-····-···--·--··---·--·-···-·-------611 J St., Sacramento 14
Henry C. Oausen..................·-·····-···········--·-----315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Chester H. Warlow~---···················-··············-·-········.l()(M Security Bank Bldg .. Fresno 1

FINANCE
Claude H. Morrison................................First Natl. Trust & Savings Bank, San Diego 12
F. Wesley Davles............................849 San Vicente Rd., Rancho Santa Anita, Arcadia
Ellsworth BarnetL----·--···-··············-·······-······--·-·-·-···-··--------····----·---Sauta Rosa
John W. 0aWY-····----········-············-··---·--····..216t Hyde St., San Francisco 9
Raymond G. Taylor·--··---······--------·-----·····---~..Boz 887, Bakersfield

GRIEVANCES
Frank B. Belcher..••••-··-···········-·······-······-········-······510 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Joe L. Shell-..·······--··---·····-··········--··············-···-·--·C.Ounty Courthouse, San Diego 1
Albert F. ROS&.---·--···-------·--·--····----·------····-..Reddlae
Alfred F. Breslauer--···-······--···-·--···--11 1 Sutter St.. Room 1309, San Francisco 4
Ralph E. HCJYL..--···--·--·-·········--··-···-··--·~···-------89 Hillcrest Rd .. Berkeley

CREDENTIALS
Louis Sutter..........·-·····-·····-·········-···-···.Anglo-Callfornia Natl. Bank, San Francisco 20
Arthur B. Ledbetter••..._....-----··············-----·······-······--·--·--P. 0. Box 1298, Tulare
Eggert Rohwer...·-······---····-·-··-···--···········-····---··-·--·--·----------.l:>b:cm
Carroll A. Trefts...-··········--·-·····--·····-·----·····--·.424 Central Bank Bldg., Oakland 12
Wilbur D. CrosbY--··-··-·---······-····---------·.--26 Claremont Ave., Orinda

PAY OF MEMBERS
Lloyd C. CampbelL.........·-···············-·-····---·--·---Cam.P Baldy, California
Louis G. Suttcn......·-·-···-·····································--··-·---·----·-·-···-·-··-··-.MaxweD
Keith W. SchlaegeL.........- ..·············-···········--·····-·········-=--724 West 16lst St:, Gardena
Herbert H. Cooper--·····························--·············-···-1954 Glendon Ave., Westwood 25
John V. Badgalupi_.._....................................- .........·-···-·--···.108 Belle Ave., San Rafael

398

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SPECIAL

CHARTERS
Glenn C. Holmes........................................................................................................Dos Palos
William R. Hervey, Jr.............................- .................458 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Wm. J. Willlams......................................................1476 Bradbury Road, San Marino 9
Harold Meyer............................................................2243 - 34th Ave., San Francisco 16
James M. Macdonald..............................................................580 - 6th Ave., Sacramento

BY-LAWS
Oakley K. Morton..............................................................................Courthouse, Riverside
Andrew R. Schottky.......................................................................................- ..........MariJ>ollli
Edward L. Kellas..........._ ............................................................Rowell Bldg., Fresno 1
Stewart B. Andrews....................................................6222 Robin Hood Way, Oakland 11
Gordon Porter......................_ .........................................................................- ............Corona

RETURNS
Henry G. Mathewson....................................................................869 Walnut St., Alameda
Willlam W. McKee....................................................3310 Los Pinos Dr., Santa Barbara
Francis J. Herz..................................................................2358 - 14th Ave., San Francisco
William Buxton........................................................................- ...·-··--·--··-·--··--Plttsburf
Sherman D. Williams................................................................................................Red Bluff

CORRESPONDENCE
James K. Fisk.......- .................................- ...........................Hotel Shattuck, Berkeley 4
Oscar C. Olsen..........................................................2095 - 29th Ave., San Francisco 16
Frederick 0. Eatoo................................................................781 Laurel St., San Jose 11
Newcomb Condee............................................................Hall of Records, Los Angeles 12
Herbert G. PolhilL.......................405 Farmers & Merchants Bank Bldg., Long Beach 2

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
·Andrew Burke................................................................25 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Samuel F. Worswick............................................................1433 Madison St, Oakland 12
Alfred F. Brulauer........................................ 111 Sutter St., Room 1309, San Francisco 4
Richard Henry Niebolt....................................- ............4320 - 24th St., San Francisco 14

LODGE FINANCING
Walter L. Berger..............................._,________ ....640 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 14
Walter E. Holmes.................................- ..................Capital Natl. Bank, Sacramento 14
Richard A. Steves...........................................................- ....Citizens Natl. Bank, Riverside
Walter Pybon........._ .............- ................................464 California St., San Francisco 4
Albert T. Luck................................................606 So. Hill St, Room 419, Los Angeles 14

NECROLOGY
Roy C. Bryan..........................................................829 Longwood Avenue, Los Angeles 5
Ross K. Roper....................................................................1009 Oakes Blvd., San Leandro
George Jean ..................................................................................................................Hollfater
George L. Edmondson..................:.................................Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco
Elmer Blaae..............................................................................3937 Texas St, San Diego 4

399

COMMITTEES
RITUAL

I

9

Arthur M. Warren......................Bank of California, 16th & Julian Ave., San Francisco 3
Mervyn E. Hanshaw.......................................- ..- ......1218 W. Walnut St., Stockton
Walter H. E. VonKonsky..........................................877 Valencia St., San Francisco 10
Obed W. Carr..............................................._ ................-· ___'JIJI Dolores Ave., Exeter
Frank Harwell, Jr................................---·----··621 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 14

MASONIC HISTORY
Leon 0. WhitselL......_ ............................_ .....-----1565 Newlands Ave., Burlingame
Charles R. l~gram...........................................----·------P. 0. Box 393, San Rafael
Wilson E. Newlon.......................................................- ..........981 Miller Ave., Berkeley 8
Thomas Norris............................................................- ...................- .....&% 2555 Carmel
David Tulloch ___.........................._._......- -..·- - ·····-··-----··--·----·---···----C>akdale
James M. Barkley..............:.............-.--................................- ......................_ .........Benicia
Roy L. Haglund.__.......- .................................................Citizens Natl. Bank, Riverside
Alex C. Krater.....................................................- .................................- .......Independence
Herbert A. Huebner...........- ........................................610 So. Broadway, Los Angeles 14
John T. Bond................................................................637 So. Wilton Place, Los Angeles 5
Samuel Steelman..- .......................................................650 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 14
Othmer John Wohlgemuth.........--·-···----··--------------··-P· 0. Box 247, Walnut Creek
Richard E. Gtesm.......................- ......- ................- .......--212 - 27th Ave., San Mateo

MASONIC INFORMATION
Henry W. Coil........_ ............................- ............- ...........................Bm 512, Riverside
Delbert Berry........................................................150 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Richard H. Cbamberlain...................................................... 114 Manor Drive, Piedmont
Alvin Wendt...........................................................2325 No. Catalina St.. Los Angeles 27
Robert F. Shlppee........................................................408 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE
William R. McKay......................................- ..................Superior Court, Los Angeles
Harry A. Nauman, Jr...:.-------·----·-------------------2021 - 28th St., Sacramento
James T. Fraaer............................- ....- ...............---432 W. Hawthorn St., Eureka
Lee T. Mullen....._ .__.......................................- ...306 W. Third St, Los Angeles 13
Donald Adams._.._ ..............- -- --·------·---3616 Main St., Room 500, Riverside
John McRae..................................- ...........- ...............2429 Hollister Ave., Santa Barbara
Dudley H. Nebeker-........................- ..........---------1419 Groadway, Oakland 12
Edwin S. W. Eri<:kson......~.........................--..----........................._ ...................Madera .
George W. Parker........................,...................- ...- .......3777 Poe St., San Diego 7
William Bachman.................- ..............,................................1611 Pine St., San Francisco

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
Chas. Albert Adams.........................................._ .....Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco 5
Robert A. Odell..............................................- ..1011 Van Nuys Bldg., Los Angeles 14
Jesse W. Wazner...- ..........------..·----·-------·---·City Hall, Fresno 1
John M. Lee...- ............- ..................-----<flO Blackwood St., No. Sacramento

400

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SOCIAL SECURITY AND UNEMPLOYMENT TAX
R. P. Wlsecarver..................................................-315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
James E. Hammond.........................................................- ... 111 Sutter St.. San Francisco 4
Robert R. Yorlc.-------------------------------------------------------------------1924 Broadway, Oakland 12

MASONIC HISTORY PUBLICATION
Washington I. Kohnke.................................... ______686 Sacramento St.. San Francisco 11
John T. Bond....................................,................637 So. Wilton Place, Los Angeles 5
A. F. Heuer---------------------------------------------------------------1307 - 4th Ave., San Francisco 22

DE MOLAY
Charles E. Llstenwalter........................................-..375 So. Rimpau Blvd., Los Angeles 5
Thurman D. Moyers.....................................................--------------830 Normal St.. Fresno 4
Kay V. Smith.___________________.................................................-1833 - 30th St .. San Diego
Harold F. Butterfteld.......................................................................Courthouae, Riverside
Henry Honalter-................................................................-.309 W . Palm Ave.. Compton
Walter Flierl --···-··--------------·-------------------------------------------·-lOf.t "C" St., Hayward
Raymond S. Kimbell................................................46 Allston Way, San Francisco 16
William D. Wickwire....................................................2051 - 46th Ave., San Francisco 16

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

CONSTITUTIONAL

401

BOARDS

ENDOWMENT BOARD
Ernest G. Bashor............................................600 Edwards-Wildey Bldg., Los Angeles 14
Edmund A Lockett.................................. :.............- ..552 So. Raymond St.. Pasadena 2
Reynolds E. Blight..................................................-756 So. Broadway, Los Angeles 14
Rollie W. Miller................................................Assodated Realty Bldg., Los Angeles 14
James T. Fraser_.................................................:..........-432 W. Hawthorn St., Eureka
Ira D. Wheeler..............................................................- .....---Box 891, Santa Monica
Carl E. Miller............................................................Capital Natl. Bank, Sacramento 14
Omo E. Tyler.-........................................................-...3921 Kansas St., San Diego 4
Clovis J. Robert...........................................................576 San Marino Ave.. San Gabriel
Lester A. Prfce_...........................................................................ti8 Saratoga St., Fillmore
A. W. Carlsoa.-........................................................................-801 Helm Bldg .. Fresno 1
Arthur Trigg.s_........................................................................---2205 Rosedale, Oakland
Byron Coleman....------------------------------------------------------220 Montgomery St.. San Francisco
Leonard R. Avlla.......................................................--1717 Middlefield Rd .. Palo Alto

MEMORIAL BUILDING COMMITTEE

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES

Francis V. Keesling .............................................-315 Montgomery St.. San Francisco 4
William Rhodes Hervey........................................... _ ..458 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Charles E. Moore._.......................................................5H Market St., San Francisco
C. Stanley Chapman..................................................................Chapman Ranch, Fullerton
James HursL______ :.................... :............................ 155 Montgomery St.. San Francisco 4

Chas M. Wollenberg, President....................................-948 Market St., San Francisco 3
Ellsworth Meyer, V. President.......................................:Munidpal Court. Los Angeles 12

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS

Chas. Albert Adams......................................................Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco 5
Leonard Grola..--------------------·----------------------·-----------------·----------j<fll E. 3rd St., Downey
L. Harold Anderson.._............................................-245 Market St., San Francisco 6
Ralph H. Head.__________ ..............................700 West Washington Blvd., Los Angeles 15

Arthur W. Brouillet..............................................Humboldt Bank Bldg., San Francisco 3
James K. Flak......................................................................._HoteJ ShattUck, Berkeley 4
M. Jay Jenaen............................................................................_______...Boz 457, Colma 25
James HursL-....................................................... 155 Montgomery St.. San Francisco 4
Horace W. Rice.............c..........- ............................315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4

Myron E. Smith_..........................................-..203 Union Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 14

COLUMBIA TEMPLE RESTORATION COMMITTEE

Jack C. Butler..........................................218 Capital Natl. Bank Bldg., Sacramento 14
John T. Martin......................................... _________________ 1170 - 7th Ave., San Diego 1

Leon 0. WhitaelL.....................................................1565 Newlands Ave., Burlingame
Ira W. Coburn....................................................... ___..20f8 Market St., San Farncisco
John A. Klarquiat....................................................618 So. Western Ave.. Los Angeles 5

------------------------------------------------·-----------------···----SOllO!la

Otto J. Mouron.....................
Bert Bulloc:k.......................................- ............................................................................Scaora

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON GRAND LODGE RITUAL
John W. Sbenk.........................................................................State Bldg., San Francisco 2
Leslie E. Wood..------··-----------------------------------------------------611 J St., Sacramento 14
William B. McKeuon................:...........................................2128 Adair St.. San Marino 9

Arthur Paulaen.................................. -------···-------------------·Weaverville
Louis C. Drapeau..............................................................................--Courthouae. Ventura

BOARD OF CONTROL

Guy A. Tolle...- ......................................- ...........200 E. Slauson Ave., Los Angeles 54
Harry F. White...........................................------------------------1261 Broadway, Fresno 1

402

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUBHOUSES

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of Lodge

BERKELEY
Milton T. Parmer....._.........................................................Balboa Bldg., San Francisco 5
Chas. Albert Adams......................................................Monadnoclc Bldg., San Francisco 5
William B. Herma..·-······························-·····················-·····2032 Del Norte, Berkeley 7
Carlisle D. Nielsen....................-··············-···-······-·····-·····.170 Ardmore Road, Berkeley
Boyd B. Rakestraw-...................................................... 123 Tamalpais Road, Berkeley 8
R. P. Wlsecarver.·-·---····························-··········315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Earl Warren.·-···-·······················-·-·-·························-·-···--State Capitol, Sacramento
Russell C. Horstmann.--···························--··································-···Qty Hall, Oakland
Frank R. Killinger, Jr---························-·············-···········-··-1221 Walnut St., Alameda

LOS ANGELES
Oscar Lawler...._.._.....l_____···············-·············-800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 15
Ellsworth Meyer·-···-······················-································Municipal Court, Los Angeles 12
Marco R. Newmark..·--··············-···························977 Arapahoe St., Los Angeles 6
John Stewart Ross....._............................................... 1017 El Paso Drive, Los Angeles 42
Clyde C. Shoemaker....·-····-···············-·-·······-············ 117 West 9th St., Los Angeles
John A. KlarquJsL...._................·-·········-················618 So. Western Ave., Los Angeles 5
Elvin C. Drake•....................- ............................... 1017 Centlnela Ave., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade...·--···················-··············-·········4155 Greenbrier Rd., Long Beach 8
Marion A. Duncan-·-·-·········'·····-·-························2483 Eucalyptus Ave., Long Beach
Myron E. Smith.........._........•.......-···-···················203 Union Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 14
William R. Gallagher..._ ....................................433 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
John M. Aaldn................................................Room 701C, Hall of Justice, Los Angeles 12
C. Earle Crane........................·-··········-··············-·····8915 Burton Way, Los Angeles 12
James R. Pierce...-..··-·················-·········-·······720 W. Washington Blvd., Los Angeles 15
A. Curtis Smith...--·····-··-····················--·······-·········211 No. Elm Drive, Beverly Hills

•At the time of going to press the membership of all Committees has not been
completed.

403

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

•

l

'

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

California ·············-···········No. 1....Ralph W. Scott, Master
D. Ewing Marsh, Junior Warden
Francis V. Keesling, P.G.M., Grand
Treasurer
Edward C. Lohmeyer, Past Master and
Inspector
Walter A. Scott, Past Master
·
Ralph G. Wadsworth, Past Master
James Hurst, Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master
Lee Crawford, Past Master
Harvey E. Teller, Past Master
Western Star....................No. 2.... Grant A. Schroter, Past Master and
Representative ·-·-···-····-·················-··-···-.$31.82
Tehama ··--·--···-··-··········No. 3....Albert O'Malley, Master............·-·-·······-·····- 7.24
Kenneth L. Malcolm, Senior Warden
Gerald C. McKinley, Junior Warden
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
Benicia ·······-····----···-·····No. 5.... Lawrence X. Carroll, Master............................ 3.10
George Thomas Garvin, Senior Warden
Walter Elliott Driver, Junior Warden
Tuolumne ··············-··········No. 8.... Henry H. Temple, Master......·--···················· 10.86
Chas. C. Hale, Past Master and Inspector.... 9.66
Corinthian -····-··-·········No. 9...Joe D. Carroll, Master-·········------···-····-··· 8.30
Nelson E. Borthwick, Senior Warden
R. Barr Shaver, Junior Warden
James W. Robinson, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 8.30
Geo. W. Williams, Past Master
San Jose -···-··---········-No. 10.... Leon A. Waring, Master...............·--·····-····· 3.92
Ralph E. Richards, Senior Warden
Joseph S. Greenley, Past Master
J. Wayne Hutchins, Past Master
Yount ·······-·······················No. 12.... Robert P. Kuhre, Master.................................... 3.20
Allen D. Owen, Junior Warden
John J. Arnitz, Past Master
Nevada ··---············-·-···No. 13.... Not represented
Temple ··········-····-···--···-No. 14._. Harvey Orion Downey, Master·-·-·--·······- 3.00
John N. Evans, Past Master
Eureka ····-········==···-····---No. 16.... Vernon E. Van Riper, Master...·-·········-···- 7.30
Charles E . Beckman, Senior Warden
La Parfaite Union ............ No. 17.... Jules Ramond, Master
Frederick F. Amandes, Senior Warden
Andre L. Armand. J unlor Warden
Rene Canonica, Past Master an! Inspector
Andrew P. Girerd, Past Master
Mountain Shade ·-···········No. 18.... A. R. Hinton, Master·-·-·-·-·-···········-·········-··· 22.80
San Joaquin ......................No. 19.... Norman A. Schwartz, Senior Warden.......... 6.86
Washington ......................No. 20.... Andrew Grant Bulloch, Master...................._ 7.24
Hawaiian ······-··-·-····--··No. 21....Gerhard C. Shinkoethe, Master..................- ....310.00
Occidental ·-····-·······-·····No. 22.... Finn John Angell, Master
Harold W. Koenig, Senior Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master and Inspector
Harold A. C. Mitchell, Past Master
William E. Bouton, Past Master
Raymond S. Kimbel, Past Master

404
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Madison ·-···-········--······No. 23 .... Leonard A. Martin, Master.·-··--················ 12.34
Harold L. Houser, Senior Warden
George L. Jones, Past Grand Master........_. 12.34
Mariposa ····-·················-·No. 24.... Cleo G. Adelsbach, Master.....·-····-·······-·· 22.80
Orville M. Whitney, Past Master
and Inspector .................................................. 22.80
Jas. P. McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown ······-······-······No. 25.... Thomas M. Hawkins, Senior Warden............ 8.90
Harry T. Carter, Past Master
El Dorado ---·················No. 26.... Henry F. Le Fevre, Master·-··········--·······-·- 11.96
Robert M. Reeder, Senior Warden
Brittain J. Dellis, Junior Warden
John P. Simpson, Past Master and Inspector.. 11.96
Trinity -····················-·····No. 27.... George Burger, Representative....·-·····-·--···· 29.38
Arthur Paulsen, Junior Grand Warden....___ 29.38
Jacob Rauscher, Past Master
Golden Gate ···············-···-No. 30.... Randolph M. Rosso, Junior Warden
A. F. Heuer, Past Master
Gold HUl.....................___No. 32.... Albert S. Gulliford, Senior Warden ............ 9.00
Lowell L. Sparks, Past Master
Ophir -·---·--···----No. 33.... Not Represented.
San Dlego....- ...................No. 35.... Maurice B. Ross, Master--·-···············-···-···· 50.84
Claude H. Morrison. Past Grand Master.... 50.84
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master and Inspector.... 50.84
George W. Elder, Past Master
Joe L. Shell, Past Master--···········-·············· 50.84
Alden J. Fulkerson, Past Master
Howard --··-············-No. 37.... 0scar R. Franzen, Senior Warden.................. 33.56
Santa Cruez ····-·-·-····--·No. 38.... Albert J. Thorp, Master.·--··-··-····-···-·-··-·- 6.32
Harry M. Kaiser, Senior Warden
Henry Kaiser, Past Master and Inspector...... 6.32
Charles Madison Smith, Past Master
Fred H. Schlichting, Past Master
Sacramento ···--······-·····-No. 40.... Volney V. Scott, Master.·--·--···--·-···· 7.24
William Mayland Thielbahr, Senior Warden
Walton E. Holmes, Past Master
Martinez ·-····--·-··········-No. 41._ Thomas J. DeLacy, Master·--·-····-·····-- 2.30
Hugh C. Roberts, Senior Warden
Benjamin P. Schleifer, Junior Warden
Hugh P. Roberts, Past Master
Lo11 Angeles..·-·····-··········No. 42 .... Earle C. Graham, Master.....·-·-···-·-··········· 47.56
Armin J. Bauerle, Senior Warden ....
Hiram ------···-·-No. 43.... Not Represented
Mount Moriah ··········-··-No. 44.... Alphonse F. Mailloux, Past Master
D. B. Richards, 0 ast Master
Crescent --···-····-·······--··No. 45.... Not Represented
Texas --·····---··-·-·····-···No. 46.... Joseph Emil Regan, Past Master and
·
Representative ···························-····················· 5.60
Forbestown -·········-········No. 50.... Andrew A. Reed, Master·-····-······-················ 12.22
Fred Bauman, Senior Warden
Illinolstown -·-················No. 51.... C. W. Manuel, Past Master
Suisun -···-·-·-······-··---No. 55.... Harry L. Needham, Master......·-··········-··-···· 4.02
R. G. Hollar, Senior Warden
Kirby Stevens, Junior Warden
Volcano --·-·-·-··-····-No. 56....Charles Brockman. Master.·-·--·-··············-·· 8.50

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

405
Mileage Allowed

Santa Rosa ····-··················No. 57.... L. Everett Richardson, Master......... _............. 5.10
Carvil W. Marlatt, Senior Warden
Gorm A. Vogensen, Junior Warden
Ellsworth L. Barnett, Past Master_................ 5.10
Union -·····-·-··················.No. 58....Jack C. Butler, Master ·········-························· 7.24
Otto F. Link, Junior Warden
Laighton D. Armstrong, Past Master and
Inspector ················-··························-········· 7 .24
Howard S. Mcintire, Past Master
Gravel Range -·········-·····No. 59.... Erle Pauly, Master...................·--············-··· 18.00
Frederick J. Joubert. Past Master and
Inspector -·····························-··········--·-···- 18.00
Plumas -··················-·······No. 60.... Thos. L. Barry, Representative........................ 27.96
Live Oak............................No. 61.... Glenn H. Spencer, Master
George T. Jatho, Senior Warden
Herbert J. Bronsdon, Junior Warden
Charles E. Haven, Past Master
Natoma ..............................No. 64.... Charles William Walker, Master.................... 8.34
Amador -·········-····--·········No. 65.... Not Represented
Forest ---···············-··-··No. 66.... Fred A. Austin, Past Master and
Representative ························-······················ 17.90
Morning Star -··················No. 68.... Harvey M. Stull, Master.·-··---···············-··· 6.86
Frank T. Jury, Senior Warden
James H. Beckwith, Junior Warden
Stanley Hurst Wentz, Past Master and
Inspector ·-···--·················-···········-·-········· 6.86
Enterprise ···················-···_No. 70.... Hugh C. Moncur, Past Master and
Representative ····································-······-·· 9.80
Bear Mountain -··········-···No. 76.... Not Represented
Calaveras --··-·················No. 78....Clarence Evans, Representative..........----······· 9.68
Humboldt ···--·--·-·····-····No. 79.... Don V. Metcalf, Senior Warden..................- 30.78
James T. Fraser, r'ast Grand Master..·-········· 30.78
lone ---··-·············-·······No. 80.... Donald H. Onstad, Master..........·-·············-··· 9.64
J. Wesley Sibole, Past Master and
Inspector -···-···-·--··-·················-··········· 9.64
Yolo ····-·····················_.__No. 81....Paul W. Reiff, Senior Warden-...................... 7.24
Charles E. Patton, Past Master
Forest Laugenour, Past Master
Vesper ·············-···············No. 84 ....Laurel L. Hunt. Master·--································· 24.16
Naval -·-··························No. 87.... Joseph Brouss, Master·-·····-·····-········-········ 2.70
·
John G. Nichol, Senior Warden
Milton I. Dawson, Junior Warden
Charles E. Zander, Past Master
Joseph C. Harrison, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
Arnold L. Olsen, Past Master
Philip S. Creedon, Past Master
Gustave Oertel, Past Master
Mark T. Andrews, Past Master
William M. Pillsbury, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Rose's Bar--·····-···········--··No. 89.... James M. Hapgood, Past Master and
Representative ................................................ 9.22
North Star.............~........-No. 91....James C. Eastlick, Senior Warden.................. 41.92

406
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

St. Helena ...........- ............No. 93....Domonic Battuello, Master................................ 5.36
Oscar Ovie Martin, Senior Warden
James H. McColley, Junior Warden
John Wichels, Past Master
Basil B. Rouse, Past Master
Russel J. Sandvick, Past Master
John A. Mitchell, Past Master
Henry Clay..........- .•..........No. 95.... Robert M. Pettet, Master.................................. 8.H
G. Harold Swift, Senior Warden
Homitos ·····················-·····No. 98.... Fred Steiner, Master.......................................... 22.40
Clyde E. Sweet, Senior Warden
Yosemite ············-·····--····No. 99.... Royal B. Laird, Master·--·····--····················· 19.60
Andrew R. Schottky, Past MCJster.................. 22.80
CJ ay ·-····-········-········-···N o. 101....A. M. Erskine, Senior Warden ...................... 12.60
Robert S. Boynton, Junior Warden
H. W. Haberkorn, Past Master
Oroville ......................__ No. 103.... Warren R. Thatcher, Master............................ 12.22
Lexington ........................ No. 104....Tom R. Richardson, Master.............................. 47.56
Elward A. Hardenburgh, Senior Warden
Arcata ······-······················No. 106.... Wilmer E. Dodge, Senior Warden.................. 31.86
Pajaro ·······-················-···No. 110.... Andrew F. Edwards, Representative................ 7.92
Chico ·······-················-···No. 111....Fred C. Irvine, Senior Warden........................ 13.54
Summit ............................No. 112.... Thomas H. Prowse, Past Master and
Representative ................................................ 9.10
Eden -·····-··--·········-····No. 113.... Morrison B. Currey, Master
Elwood D. Bona, Senior Warden
Robert N. Leard, Junior Warden
Sidney Briggs Force, Past Master
Concord ··-··············--···No. 117....William James Poindexter, Master.................. 7.24
Chalmers E. West, Senior Warden
Wm. Henry Gilbert, Past Master
Fidelity .............•..............No. 120....Cyril Louis Weeks, Master
Louis Blumenthal, Senior Warden
Bernie J. Katz, Junior Warden
Bennett Farber, Past Master
Philipp Jacobovics, Past Master
Abraham Jacobs, Past Master
Harlod F. Klinger, Past Master
Milton D. Sapiro, Past Master
Alamo --·-···-·-·······-·····No. 122.... Stanley A. Ford, Senior Warden. ........·-········ 3.00
Floyd L. Stephens, Junior Warden
John H. Demartini, Past Master
Ralph M. Hinds, Past Master
Paul F. Ruff, Past Master
Chas. G. Faisst, Past Master
J. B. Near, Past Master
Sotoyome -······················No. 123.... Robert W. Weston, Master....._....................... 5.34
Table Mountain •.............No. 124.... William F. George, Past Master and
Representative ................................................ 15.34
LaFayette -·-···················No. 126.... Henry L. Singmaster, Master.......................... 4.58
William C. Heatly, Past Master
Hermann ·······-····-·········No. 127.... William Haag, Master
Reinhard H. Muhlmann, Junior Warden
E. A. Neumarkel, Past Master
Hans E. Warncke, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

407
Mileage Allowed

Visalia ·-··-····-·----No. 128....Gilbert R. Morris, Master.... ·-························· 27.38
John W. Manuell, Senior Warden
F. Ross Fleming, Junior Warden
James B. Lawson, Past Master
and Inspector---···-·······-··················-····· 27.38
Nicolaus -········-··············No. 129.... R. G. Clayton, Senior Warden·····················-· 10.08
Wo~ridge .•.................•No. 131....Paul Wencel. Master ........................................ 7.50
Ronald Lauchland, Senior Warden
Marion T. Williams, Junior Warden
W. Corell Smith, Past Master and
Inspector ····················································-· 6.00
Sincerity -·········-···-········NO. 132.... Earl Waits, Senior Warden.·-·························· 31.30
Vacaville ··-··-·-·········No. 134....Troy L. Roulund, Master..·-······-··-········-······ 5.24
Valley -···--·-··-··-··--···No. 135..-Herman T. Folley, Senior Warlen.................. 8.50
Ralph M. Foote, Past Master and
Inspector ·-····-·-·--·-·······--····-----·- 8.50
Pacific -······················---No. 136.... David Monasch, Jr .. Senior Warden
Charles E. Jackson, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Jerome L. Schiller, Past Master
Crockett •.....••.................•No. 139....John Logan Stevens, Master
Ballard White, Jr., Senior Warden
Frederick J. Mahr, Junior Warden
Charles S. McGlothlin, Past Master
William A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
Zina R. Callaham, Past Master
William H. Mason, Past Master
James Low, Past Master
Curtis ····--········--···-·-No. 140.... Harold Eyles, Senior Warden.......................... 5.20
Grafton ·····-····-··-·-··-···No. 141 .... Herbert A. Martin. Senior Warden................ 7.34
Franklin -·····-···············No. 143.... Not Represented
Oriental ··-··········-········-No. 144.... Walter Edward Sanner, Master
Claude Eldred Fountain, Senior Warden
Ian Anderson Russell, Junior Warden
George B. Lake, Past Master
George D. Garvin, Past Master
Vitruvius -····-···-····-···-No. 145.... Maurice Thomas, Master•......·-························ 2.60
John Kelly, Senior Warden
Peter Christensen, Junior Warden
Wm. Millmeister, Past Master
Martin Mickelsen, Past Master
146
..
-George
W. Hovey, Senior Warden.·-············ 9.04
Abell -·-··-·······-·······---No.
F. W. Sandelin, Senior Grand Deacon............ 9.04
Elmer M. Hopper, Past Master and
Inspector ..............•......................................... 9.04
147
..
-Lee
H. McLeod, Senior Warden.................... 29.34
Eel River ········-·······--··No.
B. F. Morgan, Past Master
John E. North, Past Master
Lassen ·-················-·--·No. 149.. _John M. Hassett, Representative...................... 32.28
Elmer Glen Van Tassell, Past Master
and Inspector......--·-····-·········-······-··-··· 32.28
Molino --·-····-·--·-··-·No. 150....Grover C. Davis, Master·-·······-··-···--······ 23.24
Lewis McDonald, Senior Warden
Robert ·L. Clark, Past Master

408
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Woodland ········-········-No. 156....Harry B. MU!er, Master.·-········-·······-··········- 6.96
S. Raymond Fairlee, Senior Warden
George L. Stivers, Past Master and
Inspector ················--···········-··············-·· 6.96
Keystone ··········-····-·-No. 161....J. C. Scoles, Junior Warden._......................... 9.26
Harmony ·············-········No. 164....Emest M. Innes, Past Master and
Representative ·······-···-·············-······-··- 22.80
Excelsior ··----···-···No. 166_Francis E. Motevaldo, Master
Fred B. Barnes, Senior Warden
George S. McGahey, Junior Warden
Charles Albert Adams, Past Grand Master
Bert T. Baker, Past Master and Inspector
Joseph C. Kohlbecher, Past Master
W. Blair Rixon, Past Master
Fred W. Knight, Past Master
Fred A. Zweifel, Past Master
Alameda -·-····-··-········No. 167....William Beck, Master_ _............................, 2.50
Raymond Jolliff, Senior Warden
Fred Melhase, Junior Warden
Marston C. Dassel, Past Master
Arthur T. Biddel, Past Master
Redwood City ................No. 168.... Everett L. Tharp, Master·-··--···-·················· 1.54
Lloyd C. Jenssen, Senior Warden
Ralph H. Hallett, Junior Warden
Mission ······-···········-·-No. 169.... Not Represented.
Elk Grove ··············-········No. 173.... Howard P. Wackman, Senior Wai·den.-.......,8.74
Donald McClendon Conner, Junior Warden
Drytown ····--·······-·-····No. 174.._P. D. Mahaney, Junior Warden.·-····-·-·········· 8.86
Antioch --·····-·---····No. 175-John H. Thomas, Jr., Master-·-·--··-············· 4.12
Phoenix -·········-··--No. 178..-Everett F. Learmont, Master-....................... 52.24
William J. Molnar, Senior Warden
Ralph F. Linfesty, Past Master
Charley E. Showalter, Past Master
Mendocino ················-··.No. 179....John D. Dearing, Senior Warden............·--· 21.38
Petaluma -·-·---···-·-No. 180.._Norman Park Van Bebber, Junior Warden.... 2.60
Park Anderson Van Bebber, Past Master
Russian Rlver·-·-·-·········No. 181....Carroll C. Doane, Master-···-······-··············-- 5.10
Arbuckle ·-······--·········No. 182....Not represented
Clear Lake ·····----··-NO. 183 Clarence W. Thomas. Past Master
and Representative ···-······-························· 5.30
Sierra Valley ·-··-··--No. 184....Peter E. McElheney, Master-··········--········- 29.96
Oaibome --········---No. 185....James D. Moungovan, Senior Warden.......... 18.50
Evening Star ·----·No. 186.... Not represented
Keith ····--····--··-·········No. 187....Everett G. Shields, Master............·-·-····-··- 5.20
John H. Britzius, Junior Warden
Donald H. Chesbro, Past Master
Oakland -·····-·····-·····-···No. 188.-George J. Norton, Master
Stuart Hedlund, Senior Warden
Rue W. Sims, Junior Warden
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Grand Master
Sidney F. Sea, Past Master
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Northern Light ·····-·······No. 190....Not represented
Marin ·-··········---··-······No. 191....Walter Lindman, Senior Warden
Roy H. Bowman, Junior Warden
Horace W. Rice, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

409
Mileage Allowed

· Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Russell H. Warden, Past Master
Truel F. Tourtellotte, Past Master
J. Elmer Tourtellotte, Past Master
Ernest F. Zubler, Past Master
Ointon T. Duffy, Past Master
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Santa Barbara --··--··No. 192..-Finlay A. MacKenzie, Master--······-·-·-··· 37.74
Dwight C. Fowler, Senior Warden
Albert B. Christiansen, Junior Warden
A. W. Kincaid, Past Master
Ferndale ·--··········-···---No. 193....Charles E. Matheson, Master--·-·-·-···-···· 29.74
Mountain View -·······-No. 194....Glenn M. Stillens, Master.........·-··-·-·······-·-·- 2.30
Mervin C. Barry, Past Master
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
Buckeye - · - · - -··-·No. 195....George E. Merchant, Master....·-··············-- 6.32
Milton H. Sharp, Junior Warden
San Simeon ·-·······-······-No. 196....Augustus L. Jewett, Master·-----·---······ 28.08
Wm. Reid, Past Master
Wilmington -·--·-·····-No. 198....Frank A. Olmstead, Master-·-···-·············-· 47.56
Lawrence L. Young, Senior Warden
·
Hartley -···-·-··-·····-·-·-No. 199-..Ralph V. Devoto, Senior Warden...........·-···· 6.40
Guido de Ghetaldi, Past Master
and Inspector ······--·-···········-·-···--··········· '6.40
Truckee --No. 200..-Roy A. Feathers, Past Master
and Representative ·--·············--·············- 24.96
Silveyville ______No. 201....Linford L. Anderson, Master--·-·--- 5.52
John William Tutt, Senior Warden
Eggert Rohwer, Past Master....·-·-··············· 5.52
Pentalpha --·-··--No. 202._Jesse B. Chapman, Master.....·-·····-·-·······- 47.56
Rayman N. Miller, Senior Warden
Howard H. Arnold, Junior Warden
William Rhodes Hervey, Past Grand Master 47.56
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master
John M. Gordon, Past Master
William R. Hervey, Jr., Past Master--·-··· 47.56
Confidence --··-···-·-No. 203_..Walter C. Buttle, Past Master
and Representative ·-···········--···········-······ 8.14
Fong Q. Jing, Sr., Past Master
Salinas - - - - · · -·No. 204....Percy Cracknell, Senior Warden-·····-······-·· 9.26
Stanley L. Burchell, Junior Warden
Olivet ·-····-·---_No. 205....Joseph E. Hill, Master
- - - · - 22.56
Stanislaus ·--·-·-··__No, 206....Alfred F. Case, Master·-··-··-·····--···--·-··· 6.80
Harold A. Maley, Serilor Warden
Oscar F. Thrasher, Past Master
Anaheim ----·-·-·--No. 207....Harold C. Leigh, Master·-··---·-·---··-··· 47.56
Randall W. Brownell, Senior Warden
Rio Vista ······-·······-No. 208....John W. McCormick, Master-··-···-·········- 7.24
Harry E. Martin, Senior Warden
James W. Hamilton. Jr., Junior Warden
· Earl Stewart, Past Master
and Inspector···························- ····················· 7.24
King David's ··········-···No. 209....Chestine E. Jones. Master.....·-··-········-···-··· 28.08
Friendship - ·--··-··-····No. 210....Henry Guyer Oouser, Master·-···-·--··-·- 3.92
Lawrence Alvin Campbell, Senior Warden
Orlon Raymer Burnett, Junior Warden

410
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milea&"e Allowed

Clifton Maynard Perry, .·ast Master
John F. Knight, Past Master
Frederick 0. Eaton, Past Master
San Benito ......................No. 211....John J. Kurtich, Muter.................·-················ 6.10
William J. Watt, Senior Warden
Charles Saufnauer, Junior Warden
Albert W. Hinz, Past Master
H. A. Hermansen, Past Master
South San Francisco ......No. 212....Joseph B. ~ylvester, Master
Alexander K. Chalmers, Senior Warden
Frederick Junker, Past Master
Henry A. Kruger, Past Master
Henry T. Conserva, Past Master
Andrew D. Zanetti, Past Master
George A. Lastein, Past Master
San Buenaventura ·····-···No. 214....Cecil McKnight, Master·-······························-· 39.98
H. George Lepper, Junior Warden
Lemuel L. Coy, Past Master
Oak Grove ······-··············No. 215....Harvey B. Riley, Master
C. A. Penberthy, Senior Warden
Paul H. Baxter, Junior Warden
Homer A. Buck, Past Master
Doric ··-············:...............No. 216....Max H. Margolis, Master
Monterey ........................No. 217....Joseph R. Thomasson, S~nior Warden.......... 9.94
James R. Brady, Junior Warden
C. Haskell Warren, Past Master
Mosaic -················-······No. 218....Constant A. Raboli, Senior Warden ............ 3.92
Speranza Italiana ..........No. 219....John M. Icardo, Past Master
Inspector
Victor P. Sariotti, Past Master
Antonio Caghandro, Past Master
John Isola, Past Master
John Icardi, Past Master
Downey ·······················-·No. 220....Francis C. Huddle, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
Inyo .............................._No. 221....H. M. Lindholm, Senior Warden.................... 55.16
Roseville ········-··-··········-No. 222....Kenneth M. Harris, Master...·-····-················· 8.74
Frank W. Cole, Junior Warden
Lucas Schaffer, Past Master
and Inspector············--··-······························· 8.74
Bakersfield ......................No. 224....Wayman Francis Parsons, Master.................. 32.48
Michael S. Oldershaw, Senior Warden
Leonard C. Smith, Junior Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master..·-······· 32.48
Orville L. Coburn, Past Master and
Inspector ·······················-······························· 32.48
Albert Elwood Burton, Past Master
Brooklyn ..........................No. 225....Charles Sinclair, Master
Roy F. Anderson, Senior Warden
Roy H. Lenthall, Past Master and Inspector
Louis Sutton, Past Master
San Mateo ··················-··No. 226....Robert B. Caldwell, Master
Harry H. Pue, Senior Warden
John P. Fairfax, Junior Warden
J. R. Eubanks, Past Master
Richard E. Giesin, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

411
Milea~ Allowed

Athens -···············--······-No. 228....Claude M. Hardesty, Representative............ 5.10
Solano ·············-···············No. 229....Dean S. Tarbell, Muter..................................- 2.70
Joseph Monte Verda, Senior Warden
Leo L. Noel, Junior Warden
D. H. Maclean, Past Master
0. H. Hilton, Past Master
Walter J. McClure, Past Master
North Butte ......:......___..No. 230....Harold Holmes Higgins, Senior Warden........ 11.50
Covelo ·-··-······-·--······No. 231 ....Not Represented
Janesville ··-··················-No. 232....Not Represented
Calistoga ........................ No. 233.... Not Represented
Hope ········-······················No. 234....Ralph A. Emerson, Past Master and
Representative ................................................ 29.96
Surprise Valley ..............No. 235....Not Represented
Hills Ferry ········-··--····No. 236....W. R. Underhill, Senior Warden............·--···· 8.86
William S. Thompson, Past Master and
Inspector ········----··················-·····-·-················ 8.86
Guadalupe ················--···No. 237.... lmon N. HessenHow, Senior Warden............ 30.56
John Jenkins, Past Master
Colusa ········-···········-·-···--No. 240....Robert L. Manker, Master................................ 10.88
E. L. Hicok, Past Master and Inspector...·-···· 10.88
Santa Ana ·······-·-·--····No. 241....Leonard F. Sandoz, Master.....................·--··· 48.78
Eugene E. Spessard, Senior Warden
A. H. Allen, Past Master and Inspector........ 48.78
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
Magnolia ·················----No. 242....Eugene L. Hitchcock, Senior Warden............ 37.74
John H. Fickle, Junior Warden
Ralph C. Hine, Past Master and Inspector.... 37.74
Eucalyptus -·····-·············No. 243....E. Gaylord Quinn, Master
Howard L. Burr, Junior Warden
Harry A. Bradford, Past Master
and Inspector
Joseph P. Pearce, Past Master
Walter F. Flierl, Past Master
Alcatraz ..........................No. 244....Robert M. Engel, Master
Lowell K Bain, Senior Warden
John F. Randolph, Past Master
Louis Oliver Fitts, Past Master
Laurel -··············-·-·-···-·No. 245....H. H. Ossenbriiggen, Past Master and
Representative ·······---··························-··· 20.22
Pomona ·········-········-·······No. 246....Gaylord M. Grove, Master...........·-················ 50.38
Richard M. Ludden, Senior Warden
Gordon R. Steiner, Junior Warden
Fresno ·····················-······No. 247....Thomas P. Butler, Master·-····························· 23.76
Ralph W . Kuettel, Senior Warden
Chester H. Warlow, Grand Master................ 23.76
Harry F. White, Past Master
William F. Dunn, Past Master
Ben R. Walker, Past Master
Gerald F. Thomas, Past Master
Peter F. Jensen, Past Master
Charles W. Stewart, Past Master
Jesse W. Warner, Past Master
Dan B. Hurlbut, Past Master
Edward L. Kellas, Past Master........................ 23.76
Alturas ······-················--No. 248.... Not Represented

-112
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Adin -···-···-····-··-- -No. 250....Not Represented
Landmark ···-···-······ -·No. 253....Jack Rickabaugh, Senior Warden.................... 7.76
Reading -··-····-·-··No. 254....Albert A. Bryceson, Master_.:__·············- 26.98
Albert F. Ross, Past Master-·····-···············- 26.98
Welcome -·····-···- ·--····No. 255....Fred Henry Williamson, Senior Warden..·-··· 27.26
Lodi -··-··-··-··-····-·--No. 256....George M. Hughes, Senior Warden................ 7.24
J. Lyall Martin, Junior Warden
Earl H. Johnson, Past Master
Penrhyn -···-·············- ···No. 258....George Sanderson, Past Master and
Representative ·······-·- ·········--···········:.......... 9.54
Evergreen ···--·----No. 259....Harold J. McLaughlin, Master-·····-···············'- 52.24
J. Lee Johnson, Senior Warden
Willard G. Babcock, Past Master and
Inspector ················--·--·-·······················- · 52.24
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master.·-················- 52.24
Richard A. Steves, Past Master
Jas. H. Jordan, Past Master
King Solomon's - ........No. 260._Roland Edward Soracco, Master
Henry E. Bennett, Sr., Senior Warden
Norman Hilgar Stone, Junior Warden
John W. Davey, Past Master
Stephen J. Dean, Jr., Past Master
Albert 0 . Rier, Past Master
Ulysses G. Patropulos, Past Master
Louis C. J. Clodi, Past Master
Tuscan ······----····-·No. 261....Bryant R. Pearson, Senior Warden............- .. 10.18
Franklin W. Fouch, Representative
Lompoc ·--···- ·· -·····No. 262....John D. Hulsey, Repre.sentatlve.-········-········- 33.02
0. B. Chamberlain, Past Master
Hesperian -···--·······- No. 264....Floyd H. Watson, Past Master, Inspector
and Representative ······-···························-··· 3056
Mark W. Hite, Past Master
Orland ~--··-··········-·-No. 265.... William Cook, Se~or Warden.- ·····- ····-··· 21.46
Herman Thode, Past Master and Inspector.... 21.46
North East ··-···----No. 266....Amel Risley, Master·--·-···- --··············-······ 43.12
Galt - - · - · · - · ··--No. 267.._Not Represented
Durant -·-·-- ·-__No. 268....James H. Briggs, Master
George Thomson, Senior Warden
James M. Malloch, Grand Chaplain.-···- ··-···· 23.76
Niles 0. Miller, Past Master and Inspector
Kruger W. Wilkie, Past Master
Walter W. Bradley, Past Master
Burton J. Rose, Past Master
Olive Branch ···-·······-·-No. 269....Covello Onnes Hubble, Senior Warden..·-··· 27.38
A. B. Ledbetter, Past Master............................ 27.38
William J. Williams, Past Master
Snow Mountain ···-·····No. 271.... Thomas Eugene Haskell, Representative........ 10.34
Pasadena ··-·····-·-·-····No. 272.... Robert D. Phillipps, Master........................._. 47.56
James E. Shoemaker, Senior Warden
Anchor - ··- -·······- ······No. 273....W. E. H. Knight, Master--··- -·······-·-- -··- 47.56
George Q . Evans, Senior Warden
Ralph K. Pierson, Past Master and Inspector_ 4756
Theo. M. Newtson, Past Master
B. J. Little, Past Master
Arroyo -·-······-····---No. 274....Clarence Truesdal~. Senior Warden................ 28.88
Harry A. Truesdale, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

-113
Mileage Allowed

Oakdale ....................._No. 275....Arthur W. Fonda, Senior Warden.................. 9.38
Melvin M. Clark, Junior Warlen
Selma ······--···········-····--No. 277....Aaron Butts, Senior Warden.........................._ 25.00
Walter B. Glenn, Past Master
Southern California........No. 278....Donald Walton Bloeser, Master_.................... 47.56
Harold V. Spender, Senior Warden
Francis B. Galvery, Junior Warden
Charles T. Medler, Past Master
John Morgan Askin, Past Master
G. Raymond Tanner, Past Master
Hanford ............__.:.....- ..No. 279....William T. Bernstein, Senior Warden........- .. 26.58
William H. Baxter, Past Master and
Inspector ·························-···-······················· 27.26
Madera ········--·-········-No. 280....Walter Worthy Williams, Senior Warden.... 14.10
Roy James McLeod, Junior Warden
Mt. Shasta ····- -··-····--··No. 281....Elbert H. Wilcox, Jr., Master-················- ···· 26.04
Chas. A. Spann. Senior Warden
Jas. E. Heacock, Junior Warden
Callayoml - --··········-···-No. 282....William Nelson, Junior Warden.- ................... 5.00
South West -···············- ·No. 283.... Ronald W. Graf., Master--- - ·············-·· 50.84
Joseph A. Hege, Senior Warden
San Miguel - ····-·····-··-No. 285....0tto J. Nehf, Master············-·······-················· 25.24
.
Chas. Forbes, Past Master
Paso Robles ·-·············- No. 286....Kermit King, Senior Warden........·-················· 25.24
Winnedumah ·--······-·····No. 287....Marvin B. Lutzow, Senior Warden................ 55.16
Charles P. Cline, Grand Sword Bearer_........ 55.16
Maxwell ·····-··-·····-·--No. 288....E. J. Bradley, Senior Warden.-······--···-··- 10.88
Elsinore - -·····- ··-- -No. 289....George E. Lyell, Senior Warden..·-···- ·····- 53.04
East Gate -···-···--··---No. 290.... Monte Melve! Beaman, Master_________ 47.56
Ernest Raymond Mosley, Senior Warden
Oscar Lawler, Past Grand Master-·-·······-· 47.56
William Wallace Porteous, Past Master
Santa Paula ······- ·-···-_No. 291....Harry Ford Burnett, Master·-······················ 33.28
Grand Alquist Gillette, Senior Warden
Gustav A. Quick, Past Master and
Inspector ·······························- ················-··· 33.28
Los Gatos ·--···-·-···-No. 292....Fred E. Baker, Master-----····-·- - 3.00
Ralph M. Phillips, Senior Warden
Frank E. Jamerson, Junior Warden
Orange Grove ................No. 293....Rex A. Parks, Master
49.82
George W. Horton, Senior Warden
Leon 0 . Whitsell, Past Grand Master
Traver ·- ··········-··- ··· -·No. 294....Forrest H. Carlstrom, Representative............ 25.50
William Haskell, Past Master......................_ 25.50
Mt. Jackson -··········-······No. 295....Joseph Leroi Kerr, Master·-···- -···-·····-··- 5.00
Alfred C. Esseiva, Senior Warden
Silver Gate ·-········-··--No. 296_..Clarence J. Shepard, Master._______ __ 50.84
J. Sam Henderson, Senior Warden
Marvin Musgrave, Junior Warlen
Frederick S. Weed, Past Master and
Inspector --··-···-··············- ·- - ··········-····· 50.84
James L. Squire, Past Master
Earl F. Kenner, Past Master
Earl R. Newton, Past Master
Raymond P. Wakeman, Past Master
Emil L. Schellenberg, Past Master

414
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Name of Lodge

Mileage Allowed

Dunsmuir -···-·················No. 297.... Alfred Alvin Smith, Senior Warden...·-·········· 31.54
J. Morgan Jones, Past Master
Liberty -···········-······-·-No. 299...J\rchie Lee Moffett, Master...................·-··-··· 3.64
George Murray Clark, Senior Warden
Redlands ················-····--No. 300....Glenn L. Taylor, Junior Warden .................... 52.92
Ontario ············-·········--No. 301....lllrich J. Schmid, Master...........................·-···· 50.78
Loren H. Robinson, Senior Warden
Albert C. Goodwin, Junior Warden
Robert E. Harris, Past Master
Santa Lucia ·····-·······--··No. 302....Arthur B. Taylor, Master................................ 10.60
Lyman E . Matheny, Senior Warden
Emil Feldt, Junior Warden
Porterville ············-······No. 303....J. D. Barnard, Master..................................·-··· 29.24
E. H. Gibson, Senior Warden
Obed W. Carr, Assistant Grand Lecturer...... 27.88
W. C. Bradford, Past Master
Reedley ·······-·-······--···-No. 304....J. R. Boupurant, Senior Warden......-----·······- 25.60
Azusa ··--···--·············-No. 305....Fred A. Smith, Master......·----------------···--·--·---· 49.58
Stephen E. Skidmore, Past Master and
Inspector ··--·········-········································· 49.58
Ashlar -··························-No. 306....Melvin Saunders, Master......·-···-····················· 52.24
Chas. Harold Purkiss, Senior Warden
Robert William Nicol, Past Master and
Inspector ···---··············································-·· 52.24
Santa Monica ................No. 307....Frank Wolhaupter, Master....·--····················· 47.56
Edwin J. Hook, Senior Warden
H. H. Williams, Past Master
L. A. Smith, Past Master
Jack B. Nethercutt, Past Master
Monrovia -·····-··-·-·No. 308....Hayes W. Keiser, Master_··-··········-·····-··-·· 47.56
Wallace D. MacPherson, Senior Warden .
Delano -·--·····-·-····-···-No. 309.. _Jay C. McKenzie, Master................................ 29.94
·Byron E. Howard, Senior Warden
Sisson ···--·-···············--No. 310....Lester B. Thompson, Representative·--········· 32.68
Los Banos ····················-··No. 312....Hugh Douglas Staley, Master.....................-.. 7.48
.
Murray Allen Beeney, Senior Warden
Tehachapi -·-·····---No. 313._.Vaughn Squires, Master .................................. 36.38
Allen G. Johnson, Senior Warden
Wm. Clyde Brite, Junior Warden
Harry J. Beauford, Past Master
Arthur R. Keeley, Past Master
Leonard T. Jenkins, Past Master
Temescal -·········-···-···-No. 314....Nevitt L. Rossiter, Master..........•·-·················· 52.42
J. E. Kirkpatrick, Senior Warden
Norwalk ·--······--······No; 315....William E. Plains, Senior Warden ................ 47.56
Sanger ·--··-·--···········No. 316.... Harold G. Hickman, Senior Warden.............. 24.96
Fall Brook ---··-·-······No. 317...Lucas H. Stratton, Master...............·-············ 55.20
Emmanuel ············-········No. 318....Edward W . Korling, Master•....·-···········-······· 12.66
Hollenbeck ··········-··········No. 319....Francis W . Peters, Master...........................- 47.56
Basil U. Royster, Senior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, Past Master and Inspector...... 47.56
Huron Y. Gibson, Past Master
South Gate .•....................No. 320....Clark F. Andrews, Master..........·-·········--··· 47.56
Clyde A. Winslow, Senior Warden
Martin L. Griffith, Past Master
Alisa! -··-~·-····-··-···-··No. 321....Sylvester W. Miller, Master•....•.......·-············ 3.36

No. of Lodge

Representatives

HS
Miieage Allowed

Alhambra ················-·····No. 322....M. Lloyd Rugless, Master•.•............................. 47.56
Otto N. Rugen, Junior Warden
Menno 0. Mohler, Past Master
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
Whittier ·-·······················No. 323....Charles A. Raggio, Master-···--········--··-····- 47.56
Robert E. Ross, Senior Warden
Clarence W. Peck, Past Master

I
1

Corona ·················-··--···No. 324....Willlam S. Dahlem, Master.................·-·········· 47.56
Irwin G. Beadle, Senior Warden
Walton Talley, Junior Warden
Edward H. Rowins, Junior Grand Steward.... 47.56
J. Arnold Davis, Past Master
Rea P. Taylor, Past Master
Consuelo ...................... __No. 325....Victor Hett, Senior Warden............................ 52.04
Needles ····-············-········No. 326....William A. McGill, Senior Warden .............. 52.38
Carl C. Mikesell, Past Master and Inspector.. 52.38
Long Beach ·······-····-···No. 327....John W. Wiemer, Master.·-···-·········-··············· 47.56
John H. Ferguson, Senior Warden
Clark H. Shaw, Past Master and Inspector.... 47.56
Redondo ···················-·····No. 328....Cllristopher L. Cooling, Senior Warden........ 47.56
Vallee de France............No. 329....Edgar H. Jacot, Master....·-············---············· 47.56
Edouard Louis Piggoni, Senior Warden
Kilauea -·········-····-·······-No. 330....Warren W. Flagg, Senior Warden................341.20
David G. Butchart, Grand Bible Bearer......341.20
Charles A. Shepherd, Past Master
Pacific Grove ·····-····-·····No. 331....Elbert 0. Walker, Master..·-·····----······-···· 10.08
Arch Balchin, Past Master and Inspector...... 10.08
George H. Schuyler, Past Master
Edwin A. Cope, Past Master
San Pedro -···········-······-No. 332.._Eugene W. Kellogg, Master_····--··-········-·- 47.56
H. E. Dahlberg, Senior Warden
John Ramway, Past Master and Inspector.... 47.56
Alta -···········-··-···--·-···No. 333...•William
Banta, Representative.................... H.10
William . Davis, Past Master and Inspector
Covina ·-·······················..No. 334....Andrew Reich, Senior Warden.....·-····-·····-· 49.58
West Gate ············-···-···No. 335....Charles Chorna, Master·--·······-··········-·-·- ··· 47.56
Martin G. DeHaan, Past Master and
Inspector ·-········--·········································· 47.56
Fred R. Mason, Past Master
Fruitvale -···········-······No. 336....Leland B. Moore, Master
Paul Armond Brom, Senior Warden
Frank Raymond Killinger, Past Master and
Inspector
Russell Carl Horstmann, Past Master
Harold Oliver Sjoberg, Past Master
Carquinez -·-··········-·-No. 337....William S. Brunning, Past Master and
Representative ................................................ 2.42
B. Frank Scribner, Past Master
San Jacinto ····-········-·-No. 338....Edward Owen Cooper, Master.·-·-·················· 56.94
Fullerton -··-············--No. 339....W. L. Currie, Maater...·--·-·-·········-·-·--· 49.46
W . T . Rodger, Past Master and Inspector.... 49.46
Oxnard -······-···-·········-·No. 341....Cecil A. Brann, Master.....·--·-···-·········-·· 40.78
William J. Williams, Past Master.................. 47.56
San Fernando ·········-····No. 343....T. Stokely Husbands, Master ........................ 43.84
· J. Edson Lacy, Senior Warden

f

416
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Starr King ·-················:..No. 344....L. R. M. Kerr, Master
Al Barkoff, Senior Warden
Albert C. Wollenberg, Grand Orator
Charles M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master
Heiman L. Wayne, Past Master and Inspector
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past. Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Bernard J. Joseph, Past Master
Arthur Salomon, Past Master
Walter M. Goldberg, Past Master
Brentwood ···--·-·······-·No• .345.... Hugh W. Peterson, Master·-····--·······-·····-·· 5.06
Albert A. Sales, Past Master
Palo Alto- ........................No• .346....William I. Probert, Master...·-·········-············-·· 2.10
Adam B. Morten, Senior Warden
Johnny K. Douglas, Junior Warden
Robert H. Walker, Past Master
edJ.nsA:<l~~~~~:··p;;;t•~t;;;···-·-·················· 2.10
Newton W. Gleaser, Past Master
McKinley -----·····--No. 347....Raymond A. Erickson, Master
John R. Garside, Senior Warden
San Bernardino ······-······No. .348 ....Paul Payne, Master............................................ 52.24
Charles B. Mackey, Senior Warden
Ralph H. Logsdon, Past Master and
Inspector ··-·······························-···················· 52.24
Sequoia ···················-·····No. 349...E. Homer De Foe, Master
E. Herbert Phillips, Senior Warden
James L. Bos, Junior Warden
Wesley W. Kergan, Grand Marshall.............. 10.00
Henry S. Savage, Jr., Past Master an]
Inspector
George C. Courreges, Past Master
Herbert S. Bigelow, Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
Fred C. Granholt, Past Master
J. Walter Proctor, Past Master
Palestine ----····-·-No. 351....W. Sprigg Brown, Master-····--······-'·-·····-- 47.56
Wallace C. Clark, Senior Warden
·
George W. Feller, Past Master
William Turner, Past Master
Magnus Nielsen, Past Master
Sunset ·····················--·····No. 352....Cyrus K. Owrey, Master...........·-·········-···-- 47.56
Edward A. Kramer, Senior Warden
Samuel E. Burke, Past Grand Master............ 47.56
Rollie W. Miller, Past Grand Master............ 47.56
George Delavan, Past Master and Inspector.. 47.56
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
Ralph H. Head. Past Master................·--··- 47.56
Loyd C. Campbell, Past Master........... ____ 47.56
Pinole -·-··-····-···--No. 353....George Pfieffer, Past Master and
Representative ·······--·-····················-···-···-··· 2.00
Presidio -···-···-·····-···-···No• 354....0scar R. Gruter, Senior Warden
Kenneth Douglas Lerum, Junior Warden
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master and Inspector
Edward H. Wilkens, Past Master
Joseph Myron Ruggiero, Past Master
Hollywood -··--··············No. 355....George M. Stage, Master--····-·-·····-·····-·· 47.56
Samuel Steelman, Senior Warden
Edward P. Kysar, Junior Warden

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentatives

417
Mileage Allowed

Wm. B. Ogden, Past Grand Master·-···-······- 47.56
Leo E Anderson, Past Master
and lnspector -·--··-············-·-··--·- 47.56
Sampel A. MacDonald, Past Master
Walter F. Burbank, Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
John T. Bond, Past Master
Mill Valley ·-···················No. 356.... Wesley V. Smith, Master W d
Forrest T. C. Gist, Senior
ar en
Alfred M. Arenz, Junior Warden
Frederick A. Penn, Past Master and
Inspector
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master
Kent 0. Seymour, Past Master
Buena Park __________No. 357....C. S. Baumstark, Master.-----···-- 47.56
Fred E. Winters, Senior Warden
T. R. Siems, Past Master
Golden Gate _ .................No. 358.... Paul Sellers, Master--··--··-····-···-·-- 47.56
D. Ed Carmichael, Senior Warden
Edgar W. Otto, Past Master
Arthur B. Dittman, Past Master
0

Loyalton --··-···-·········No. 359.._Sidney K. Westall, Master--·-··-·--····-·-········ 31.M
Joel S. Conklin, Past Master and Inspector.... 31.M
San Francisco ................No. 360....Alvin Nebold, Master
W
Walter A. Parker, Senior arden
.
Joseph A. Sanguinetti, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary
Alfred J. Thibodeau, Past Master and
Inspector
Alfred C. Skaife, Past Master
William F. Jebe, Past Master
Henry L. Alves, Past Master
Harold W. Smith, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
Ross K. Roper, Past Master
Charles D. Johnson, Past Master
Earle Freeman, Past Master
Fort Bragg ---·-··---No. 361....C. Edward Melville, Senior Warden..-····-··- 18.50
lfarry Burrows, Past Master and Inspector..- 18.50

Charity -····-····-··..No. 362....Audrey C. Currie, Master
L. E. Hendricks, Junior Warden

--·-- 4.16

Berkeley ·······-·-·····-···-··No. 363_..Lyall 0. Bishop, Master
Royce A. Byshop, Senior Warden
Chas. A. McKelvey, Past Master
0. E. McLean, Past Master
Willits --····-··-·-········No. 365.... George Jamieson, Master ·····-·-··············-········ 12.60
Las Palmas -·····-········-··No. 366.... George C. Holstein, Senior Warden....-----· 23.76
R. G. Meyering, Senior Grand Steward......... 23.76
0. C. Olsen, Past Master
C. W. Richter, Past Master
T. D. Moyers, Past Master
W. R. Tanzer, Past Master
South Pasadena -·······--No. 367.. _Clifford P. Grua, Senior Warden....·--···-- 47.56
-Patrick J. Thompsett, Past Master
Garrett F. Van Sickle, Past Master
John W. Shenk. Past Master

418
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

No 368 H. Lynn Hostetter, Master.·-·········----·········· 47.56
····-·······----····· •
····Mark H. Bloodgood, Senior Warden
Guy B. Mize, Past Master and Inspector___ 47.56
Ocean Park ....................No. .369....Edward M. Albert, Master................. ______ 47.56
James A. Africa, Senior Warden
Dwight C. Freeman, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 47.56
Hamilcar Smith, Past Master
Harold H. Kinney, Past Master
William D. Tucker, Past Master
Amity -···-···-..····-···--No. 370....Thomas J. McHenry, Senior Warden
Urban, D. Mackins, Past Master
Le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371....Willard H. Buscher, Master...·-·················..···310.00
Alexander D. Potts, Past Master and
Inspector --·····-·········-·····-·············..······-·310.00
Gardena ···········-·············No. 372....James H. Gates, Master.................................... 47.56
Louis F. Foster, Jr., Senior Warden
James L. Rush, Past Master
Keith W. Schlaegel, Past Master.................... 47.56
Richard W. Ahlberg, Past Master
West Los Angeles ..........No. 373....Vernon E. Bennett, Master·-······················· 47.56
Bates W. Mason, Senior Warden
Jewel ·························-···-No. 374....Fred D. Pierce, Master
Emile Meyer, Senior Warden
Ernest H. Holt, Junior Warden
Charles E. Anderson, Grand 'Organist
Curtis Benton, Past Master
John H. Adams, Past Master
Herbert H. Schultz, Past Master
Richmond ···············-······No. 375....M. W. Erickson, Master
George A. North, Senior Warden
Charles E. Miller, Junior Warden
Emil K. Bender, Past Master and Inspector
James H. Conner, Past Master
E. L. Fischer, Past Master
George H. Pape, Past Master
W. C. Pohnson, Past Master
Francis Drake ...........- ...No. 376....Everett Wayne Fortine, Senior Warden
John James McDonald, Past Master
Artesia .......- ...----······No. 377....Perry H. Cosner, Master.................................. 47.56
Darrell D. Pearson, Senior Warden
Mizpah ·-·······-·············No. 378....Hubert S. Stormes, Senior Warden................ 47.56
Hersha! J. Lay, Junior Warden
Elrey J. Scott, Past Master

Name of Lodge

Um'ty

Fillmore ············-···----No. 379..·-if::a~.~~~. ~=tteM;t~;-······················· 42.14
L. C. Harmonson, Past Master
Lester A. Price, Past Master
Wm. Howard Price, Past Master
Huntington Beach ..........No. 380....A. N. R. Olsen, Master........·-··············--·-..··- 47.56
Maurice Plumlee, Senior Warden
A. F. Lockett, Past Master
Oceanside ·········-······-·-No. 381....Lester R. Williams, Senior Warden................ 54.40
George A. Otis, Past Master and Inspector_ 54.40
Highland Park -···-···-····No. 382.... William D. Jackson, Master.........................- .. 47.56
Oscar A. Bredy, Junior Warden
Harold F. Weller, Past Master

No. of Lodge

Representatives

419
Mileage Allowed

Orosi ···--········..·········-··-No. 383....Jack Peloian, Master·-··········-····-····················· 26.74
Arthur 0. Sloan, Senior Warden
Arthur P. Beckner, Past Master
El Centro ........·-·········-··No. 384....Clyde D. Chambers, Master-····-············-···- 67.94
Olin R. Gresham, Senior Warden
John Stewart Ross, Past Grand Master.......... 47.56
Charles H. Knights, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 67.94
Dinuba ..........................•.No. 385....Marion L. Franzen, Senior Warden.............. 26.14
Clarence L. Fraser, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 26.14
Coalinga ·--·····-·····-······No. 387....Wallace W. Mitchell, Master.......................... 28.20
Arthur L. Blank, Senior Warden
Wilfrid H. Boyce, Past Master
Parnassus ........................No. 388....Constant G. Simon, Master
James E. Finley, Senior Warden
Thomas Hurley, Junior Warden
Palos Verdes ..................No. 389.... Paul M. McCann, Master...·-··--·······..·········· 47.56
William F. Short, Senior Warden

•

Imperial ··-------·-----·-·-·······No. 390....Chas. F. Maynard, Junior Warden................ 70.72
East Belt ·····-······-·······---No. 391....Wallace H. Fiske, Senior Warden.................. 11.88
West Lake ......................No. 392.... Thomas Y. Jaffray, Master.--........................ 47.56
Harold J. Blaine, Senior Warden
Charles W . Jackson, Junior Warden
Robert C. Peyton, Grand Standard Bearer.... 47.56
Charles E. Listenwalter, Past Master
Stanley Cowin, Past Master
Clyde E. Hopkins, Past Master
Walter L. Berger, Past Master....·-················· 47.56
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
Vernon E. Mitchell, Past Master
Lee T. Mullen. Past Master
William T. Osterholt, Past Master
Balder ......·-······-·······-···No. 393.... Harry R. Peterson, Junior Warden
Elias Ellison, Past Master
N. S. Stohl, Past Master
University ......................No. 394....John H. Rutter, Master.·-···-·········--······-········· 47.56
Elmer L. Cannon, Senior Warden
Turlock ·······················-·-No. 395....Reinhold Schmidt, Senior Warden.................. 9.38
Harry 0 . Carlson, Past Master
and Inspector .................................................. 9.38
Apollo ·····-·-···-··············No. 396....Harold E. Short, Master
John A. Burns. Senior Warden
L. Keith Barnard, Junior Warden
Carl E. Thau, Past Master
Rising Light ...........- ....._No. 397....Ashford R. Grant, Master................................ 47.56
Thomas D. Brown, Senior Warden
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master....- .................. 47.56
Fraternity ·······--·····-···--·-No. 399....Philip Lester Snyder, Master-.......................... 3.92
Charles Cecil Jones, Senior Warden
Clarance F. Weinzerl, Junior Warden
Ray Wilson Mcintyre, Past Master
and Inspector ·····-·················-··-··················· 3.92
Burlingame ...................._No. 400....Herbert L. Lehrbach, Master
Wayne La Forest Williamson, Junior
Warden,

420
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

421

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Samuel L. Hawken, Past Master
and Inspector
William Wilkin, Past Master
Bay View ·······-··--··-··-No. 401....J. Edward Nixon, MpasteMr
Arthur H. Triggs, ast aster
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Edwin M. Wetmore, Senior Warden
Brawley -············· _ ....No. 402....Lloyd G. Adams, Master......._:···-·················- 64.32
Yerba Buena ··-····-····No. 403.... Anthony J. Magnesi, Senior Warden
Donald Hewlett, Junior Warden
Glendora -····-··-····--No. 4C}i.._Wm. D. Shores, Senior Warden...................._ 49.82
Fred T. Moore, Past Master
Moneta -·-·····-···-·_No. 405....George F. Watrous, Master...---···········-···- 47.56
Theodore T. Meehlels, Senior Warden
Louis L. Cunningham, Past Master
and Inspector - ··--········--·-·-········-·-·· 47.56
Burbank ······-·····--·--No. 406....Charles R. Myers, Senior Warden._............. 47.56
La Mesa ···········-···--··-No. 407.... Maynard C. Hostetler, MasWter......................_ 50.84
Wm. Fred Rector, Senior
arden
H. Leroy Edwards, Junior Warden
Sierra Madre ···-····--No. 408.... Harold F. Roberts, Senior Warden................ 47.56
Honolulu ············-··--·No. 409....Robert Edgar, Master.....·-··-························-.310.00
Charter Rock ·············-···NQ. 410._Leslle H. Thompson, Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Senior Warden
Norman A. Hollister, Junior Warden
Geo. L. Sargent, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Henry R. Braden, Past Master
Charles W. Stannard, Past Master
James K. Fisk, Past Master
Perris ······-········-··-···No. 411....R. Harvey Spencer, Senior Warden.............. 56.44
R.· E. Holloway, Past Master
Calexico ···············-·--No. 412....Wm. Lester Jacobs, Master..........·-············-· 66.06
Robt. Clinton Reed, Senior Warden
Tipton E. Pledger, Past Master
Arlington ····-·····-·······No. 414....William A. Bentley, Senior Warden.............. 47.56
Carl F. Peters, Past Master
and Inspector --·-················-····················· 47.56
Silver Trowel ·-···-······-No. 415.._John V. Tranchitella. Senior Warden............ 47.56
Fred Martin, Past Master
Lindsay ----- ------·-No. 416....Nolan E. Rachford, Master......·-··-··-···-·- 28.44
Charles H. Kinsell, Senior Warden
Oovls -·········-···--·No. 417....Not represented
Elysian ·-·--···---·No. 418....0rval A. Stevens, Master·-··-·············-···-···- 47.56
Frederick W. Orgar, Senior Warden
Roy L. Sawyers, Junior Warden
Henry D. Coley, Past Master
Upland ···-······---····-No. 419....Talph Thomas Mitchell, Master·-·········-······- 50.90
William Roy Farmer, Past Master
and Inspector --···-·········-··················-· 50.90
Clare C. Blakeslee, Past Master
Kerman ·····-······-··--No. 420....Walter A. Lowe, Representative·--············- 14.76
Inglewood - ··-·······-···No. 421....John A. Dull, Master.·-···---··-···········-······- 47.56
Ben C. Darling, Senior Warden
Robert K. McGuire, Past Master
and Inspector---······-···--······-·················· 47.56

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Eagle Rock -·····-···--No. 422....James A. Logan, Senior Warden..·-····--··-- 47.56
York --··-···-····--··No. 423....John W. De France, Junior Warden............- 47.56
Exeter --·-···-··-···-····No. 424....Robert B. Montgomery, Jr.. Master........·-···- 27.88
Herrich Waterman, Junior Warden
Holtville -··············-·····No. 425....Lewis D. Hartshorn, Senior Warden.............. 65.38
Midway --··········-····-···No. 426....Eric Carlson, Master.................·---·············· 33.68
Fred L. Isbell, Senior Warden
Thomas A. Hillary, Past Master
and Inspector -·-····································-····· 33.68
Chino Valley ....._:....- ...No. 427....Harry R. Stephens, Master-·--·····--·-······· 47.56
San Dimas ·-·--··············No. 428.... Paul W. Hertz, Senior Warden...................... 49.96
Arthur E. Tangeman, Past Master
and Inspector ---····-····-························-·- 49.96
Charles D. Fairbanks, Past Master
Albert E. Carroll, Past Master
Pittsburg ·-·-··············-····No. 429....Leo Hosier, Master-----········-·-··-··· 40.02
W. Ralph Anderson, Past Master
and Inspector ······-··············-························ 4.02
McCloud ·················--·-No. 430....b~~~dNE.NJ~;~i~s~:;;;··w:~·;d;~·······-······· 36.12
Charles S. Hogan, Past Master
and Inspector ······-··············-·······-·-·············· 36.12
Alpha ·······-·············--····No. 431....Joseph Albert Jeans, Master
Edwin R. Brooks, Senior Warden
A. Page Harlow, Jr., Junior Warden
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master
Wm. Purdue Self, Past Master
William F. Fraser, Past Master
Hammonton ···-··········-···No. 433....Geo. W. Huston, Master.....--···············-······- 8.30
Maricopa -········-·····---No. 434....D. B. Snyder, Senior Warden.......................... 33.68
Fairmount ········-·········-···No. 435....John E. Edwards, Master
Roy A. Pence, Senior Warden
Oaremont --·--··········No. 436....John B. MacFarlane, Representative.............. 47.56
Lancaster -····-···············No. 437....Lawrence A. Walker, Past Master
and Representative ·········-·······················-····· 39.86
Acacia ·--·········--······-No. 438....Herma:i. Dehnhardt, Master ............................ 47.56
Herman Kaestner, Past Master
Joseph Giltsch, Past Master
Tyrian -···-····-·····-···No. 439.... Harold S. Mortensen, Representative·-·······- 6.96
Standard --····-·····-·-No. 440....Edwin Chase Taylor, Master
William Flack Wood, Past Master
Coronado -···············-···-No. 441 ....Russell L. Kennett, Senior Warden....- ......... 50.84
Harry S. Oark, Past Master
and Inspector -···········-··········-··-··············· 50.84
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
Blackmer ····-·-··-···········No. 442....Charles Joseph Savage, Master·-···-·············· 50.84
Oscar G. Thompson, Senior Warden
Fred E. Shideler, Junior Warden
Warren E. Libby, Past Master
Orno E. Tyler, Past Master
William R. Markle, Past Master
Schofield ········-·-·-·······-No. 443....Ross R. Vandever. Master..............................310.00
Frank E. Ahrendt, Past Master

..

Carpenteria ·-···········-No. 444....Ronald A. Beale, Master.....·-·····---···-···- 38.66
Harry C. Vind, Senior Warden

422
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allmved

Wilshire ·····-···················No. 445....Howard P. Stassforth, Master................... ___ 47.56
John C. Monninq, Senior Warden
Will H. Fischer, Past Grand Master............ 47.56
Frederick E. Clark, Past Master
and Inspector .................................................. 47.56
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master...............'·-······· 47.56
Herbert A. Huebner, Past Master
John A. Klarquist, Past Master
W. C. McWhinney, Past Master
La Puente ........................No. 446....Harrison Persons, Representative.................... 49.06
Torrance ........................ No. 447....R. Borden Park, Master.................................... 47.56
Fred 0. Bacon, Junior Warden
Mount Diablo ................No. 448....Royle E. King, Master...................................... 3.40
Wayman E. Ballenger, Past Master
Park ................................No. 449.... Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Grand Master
John Ferguson, Past Master
and Inspector
William D. Wickwire, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Van Nuys ......................No. 450.... Weaver D. Stuart, Master................................ 47.56
William F. Rudolph, Senior W-0rden
Harold S. Morrison, Past Master
and Inspector ................................................ 47.56
Montebello ......................No. 451.. .. Samuel Harry Harris, Master.......................... 47.56
Lem C. Davis, Senior Warden
San Pasqual ....................No. 452.... Fred E. Marler, Master...................- ............... 47.56
Ben S. French, Jr., Senior Warden
Bethlehem ........................No. 453....Charles A. Davis, Master
Vadie E. Bevers, Senior Warden
George M. Orchard, Junior Warden
John C. Painter, Past Master
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Crocker ............................ No. 454.... 0liver J. Nolte, Master
Mattrup Jay Jensen, Past Master
and Inspector
Golden West ..................No. 455....Lyle Zenith Anderson, Master
James Hervey Pierson, Junior Warden
Richard Henry Niebolt, Past Master
Ramona ..........................No. 457.... Harold P. Allan, Senior Warden.................... 47.56
Ora Bailey, Junior Warden
Henry S. Orme .............. No. 458.... Harold W. Bailey, Master................................ 47.56
Merwyn N. Hollister, Senior Warden
William B. Mott, Past Master
Robert F. Shippee, Past Master
Riverbank ........................No. 459 .... 0rville B. Trette, Junior Warden.................... 8.38
Mount Oso ......................No. 460....Robert W. Milligan, Master............................ 5.78
Argonaut ........................No. 461....Earl A. Caldwell, Senior Warden
Jay Harry Netherton, Junior Warden
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
J. Denison McCue, Past Master
Ferdinand A. Moosebach, Past Master
Hoadley Johnson, Past Master
Walter S. Flowers, Past Master

Name of Lodge

1

No. of Lodge

Representatives

423
Mileage Allowed

Paul Revere ....................No. 462.... Arthur J. Kahn, Master
Melvin S. Springer, Junior Warden
Joel H. Springer, Sr., Past Master
Jacob W. Warshaw, Past Master
Sylvan Springer, Past Master
William A. Gerder, Past Master
Morgan Hill ..............- ...•No. 463.... Joseph C. Leverton, Past Master
and Representative ........................................ 5.52
Alta Vista ...............- .... No. 464.... Fred T. Williams, Master
Wm. E. Culver, Senior Warden
William E. Kidd, Junior Warden
John R. Titsworth, Past Master
H. L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Ray Hurst, Past Master
Center ..............- ....... _.....No. 465....R. H. Wilson, Junior Warden......................... 23.76
Samuel Edward Dollar, Past Master
and Inspector .................................................. 23.76
L. B. Anderson, Past Master
Libertas ............................No. 466.... Fred C. Doll, Master·-··---·····--------·----.............. 32.48
Harold A. Owens, Senior Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Junior Grand Deacon.... 32.48
Arthur Johnson, Past Master
Culver City ....................No. 467....George B. Elder, Master.................................... 47.56
Homer C. Ivie, Senior Warden
Rockridge ......- ...............No. 468.... Donald N. Manzer, Master
Anthony C. Mecca, Senior Warden
Raymond K. Massingill, Junior Warden
Roy Krueger, Past Master
Roy R. Beggs, Past Master
Bernard York Smith, Past Master
Milton T. Farmer, Past Master
Yorba Linda ......_..........No. 469....Royd R. Bunch, Master.................................... 47.56
Lincoln ............................No. 470.... Donald C. Commons, Master
Alexander McBirney, Past Master
Leslie E. Garren, Past Master
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Delta ........- ......................No. 471 ....Arthur E. De Vol, Master............................._. 6.86
George W. Graflis, Senior Warden
Mervin Elbert Hansnaw, Assistant
Grand Lecturer .............................................. 6.86
Dale C. Higdon, Past Master
Lodge Maui .................._NO. 472.... Bimey Mosher Taliaferro, Senior Warden....328.43
Blythe ........................._...No. 473....Vernon L. Thompson, Senior Warden.......... 60.60
Victory ............................No. 474....William C. Bird, Master
Richard S. Watts, Junior Warden
Max Alexander, Past Master
Otto von Raven, Past Master
America ..........................No. 475....0tta I. Whiting, Master.___.............- ............. 47.56
George 0. Fales, Senior Warden
Henry A. Save, Past Master
Cyro W. Slingerland, Past Master
Coachella ........................No. 476.... Frank B. Dozier, Senior Warden.................... 58.44
Temblor .....................- ...No, 477....Thomas J. Grafton, Master................................ 32.48
Thousand Oaks ..............No. 478.... Paul Forrest, Master
Stanley I. Roberts, Junior Warden
Robert Percy Wisecarver, Past Master

424

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Name of Lodge

Name of Lodge

425

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage AllDWed

Golden Rule --·······-··-No. 479....Clarence Clyde Coleman, Master·--··········- 3.92
Leonard Wallace Scott, Senior Warden
Albert E. Bluett, Junior Warden
John W. Poisal, Past Master
Floyd Donwood Craig, Past Master
Fellowship -·--..···-·--No. 480....John A. Ehlert, Master
Victor G. Saurman, Senior Warden
William T. Page, Junior Warden
Herman Zeller, Past Master
Mt. Davidson ......- ..._.No. 481....Marcel Ronald Hochede, Master
Herbert Edson Hall, Senior Warden
Edward H. Redford, Junior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Grand Lecturer
Harold A. Meyer, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith............No. 482....Robert W. Ramsay, Master_._..__.._..._..,,_ 47.56
Joseph Maiser, Senior Warden
'
Bell -··---··-··-·--No. 483....Loyd R. Kesler, Master.....- ...--..-·..· - · · - 47.56
Fred G. Townsend, Senior Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
Albert Pike -········---··-No. 484....Harold Star Ostrander, Senior Warden........ 47.56
Chowchilla --·-·····-No. 485.... Steven A. Upton. Senior Warden...........·-·-· 20.80
Gordon Trumbull Gregroy, Junior Warden
Caledonia --·-·······-·····-No. 486....Avery James Yancey, Master.....·-·-·-.......- 32.48
Russell Vane Ash, Senior Warden
Walter W. Dearing, Junior Warden
William Waters Shugart, Past Master
Vallejo -··----·--No. 487....Edward Neuman, Master....- -..· - ··-·-···- 2.70
Leonard 0. Anderson, Senior Warden
Frank A. Ward, Junior Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, Past Master
.._.......... 2.70
and Inspector .........___
Harry C. Siebert, Past Master
Alvin N. Hulse, Past Master
Patterson -·······.......__No. 488....Not represented
East Bay - ·····-··---··No. 489....William S. Armstrong. Master
J. Harland Plummer, Senior Warden
Arthur C. Green, Junior Warden
Corcoran ----···-··No. 490....Dale Hammond, Senior Warden.....·--········ 27.56
Woodstock ___,,_ _No, 491....Allan James Meuter, Master
George Arbuckle Allen. Senior Warden
Marion Allen Powers, Junior Warden
Alvin Arthur Horwege, Grand Tyler
Norton F. Ormsby, Past Master
R. Emmett O'Brien, Past Master
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master
Garvanza -········..............No. 492....William L. Simpson, Senior Warden............ 47.56
Earl Thaxter. Past Master
Atascadero ····- ··...........-No. 493....Melville T. Rhodes, Senior Warden.-...-·-·· 26.18
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
and Inspector-·--·-···--····-"-····-····-··· 26.18
Walter W. B. Oayton, Past Master
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
Acom ...........·--·····~-No. 494....E. Lloyd Hanson, Master
.
,.
. .-.ii.. LJ,;.,/I George P. Silliman, Senior Warden
Ralph M. Scott, Junior Warden

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Clarence M. Lake, Past Master
Samuel F. Worswick, Past Master
Ralph Adams, Past Master
Lebanon ______No. 495__Sidney N. Tucker, Master
Harry Trigger, Senior Warden
Theo. A. Schlosberg, Junior Warden
John A. Cummins, Past Master
and Inspector
Fremont --··--·--·-··....No. 497....Guy O. Robinson, Master
Troyce M. Severe, Senior Warden
James H. Wall, Junior Warden
William A. Reeves, Past Master
Chester C. Morris, Past Master
Stockton ___,,_ _ _No. 498._.0lin Robert Baysinger, Master-·--- ············· 6.86
Russell G. Crowe, Junior Warden
Capital City _____No. 499....Eugene V. Bicker, Senior Warden.................. 7.24
Roosevelt
No. 500_..Marvin Cloyd, Past Master
Eri R. Fairbanks, Past Master
Westwood _____No. 50l_Raymond E. Crawford, Junior Warden.......... 32.28
Harbor ---··-··---No. 502_..Wallace F. Quinn, Master
Robert L. Norman, Senior Warden
Harold J. Larson, Junior Warden
Point .....- ...............__...No. 503....Ralph Carl Carr, Master
Clauae Franklin Cross, Senior Warden
Mark Blythe, Junior Warden
Jack C. Pearson, Past Master
Seaside ____..___No, 504....Claude C. Landis, Master.·--·---·····-···-··- 47.56
J. Everett Houser, Senior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, Past Master
and Inspector ····--·---···-···..··-·-· 47.56
Edwin W. Wade, Past Master
Wm. T. Corbusier, Past Master
Wm. J. Courtiour, Past Master
Silver Cord _____No. 505....Robert E. Corcoran, Senior Warden.............. 48.78
Mount Olive ________ No. 506_Lewis S. Hoyt, Master-----·-..····-··..-·· 47.56
Lucius 0. Croxton, Senior Warden
Russell Northrop, Past Master
and Inspector·-·--·-··---··-........- ......... 47.56
Alvin W. Wendt, Past Master
Fred A. Kelsey, Past Master
Karl V. Johnson. Past Master
Z. Rodriguez, Past Master
El Segundo
No. 507_..Horace W. Cartland, Senior Warden..........- 47.56
Joppa - - · - - - - - N o . 508....George 1- Rogers, Master-······-··-····-······--- 23.76
Benjamin Franklin _ _.No. 509-Anthony J. Oliver, Senior Warden......._____ 47.56
J. Frank Moore, Junior Warden
Cupertino -····--·-__No. 510....Ralph L. Young, Master-··-···-·-···-······-·-··..·· 3.20
M. Albert Varner, Senior Warden
Euell B. Welch, Junior Warden
Sunnyvale ··-··--··No. 511....William B. Adair, Master......................______ 3.20
Peter Almos, Senior Warden
Jesse W. Reynolds, Past Master
Palms --·------No. 512....Richard A. Kirby, Master....·----·····--......... 47.56
James J. Eves, Senior Warden
Cahuenga _ ..___,..No. 513__Roy L. Joyce, Master-·---·-·....--··-- 47.56
David L_yle Todd, Senior Warden
George E. Trezise, Junior Warden

426
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Roy Caswell Bryan, Past Master
and Inspector .................................................. 47.56
Ray Leon Whitney, Past Master
Chas. L. Webber, Past Master
Waldo M. Safholm, Past Master
Argonne ..........................No. 5H.... Henry N. Schindler, Master
Henry G. Mathewson. Past Master
David Mann Taylor, Past Master
Vermont Square ............ No. 515....Charles I. Christie, Master........................·-·-·· 47.56
George E. Ruppers, Senior Warden
Taft ·····-···········-··············No. 516....Robert C. Farmer, Master...............·-·············· 33.68
Arthur Edward Hanst, Senior Warden
Mount Vernon ·······-·······No. 517.... Wilbur E. Gaskill, Master
Michael C. Kelly, Junior Warden
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Chester J. Capps, Past Master
Bryan B. Livesay, Past Master
Richard F. Fletcher, Past Master
Alva V. Sligar, Past Master
Walter L. Stobing, Past Master
La Jolla ............................No. 518.... Harry H. Alman, Representative.................... 50.84
Euclid ··-·····················-···No. 519.... 0hmer H. Shaeffer, Senior Warden................ 47.56
Geo. S. Strait, Past Master
Ionic ··-···-·····-·····-···-····-···No. 520....Dewey K. Overton, Master.............................. 47.56
Nathan Schwartz, Junior Warden
Bruce Avon, Past Master
Benjamin J. Moss, Past Master
Piedmont ........................No. 521....Edward H. Pitcher, Master
Wilson E. Cline, Senior Warden
Walter F. Schag, Junior Warden
Verne R. Pentecost, Past Master
Kenneth A. Rice, Past Master
Sunrise ............................No. 522....Colin L. Wells, Master·-································· 47.56
Ray 0. Weymouth, Senior Warden
Walter E. Toole, Past Master
Bellflower ···-·············-No. 523....George T. Snyder, Jr., Senior Warden.......... 47.56
Catalina Island •.............No. 524.... Herbert Anton Wegmann, Master.................. 55.34
Wilbur John Scott, Senior Warden
George Washington ......No. 525....George M. Peters, Master
Joseph J. Caiocchi, Senior Warden
Robert Bulloch, Jr., Junior Warden
John Johnson, Past Master
Bay City .•..•..................... No. 526.... Not represented
Covenant ·-··-·-···-······No. 527....Joseph L. Kray, Master_·······-················- ·-·· 47.56
Everett Sylvester Todd, Senior Warden
Henry M. Greminger, Past Master
loyd J. Lender, Past Master
Elwood Bowles, Past Master
Beverly Hills ·····-··-······No. 528.._Joseph E. Hogan, Master•.·-···-·-·········--- 47.56
Frank M. Jenkins, Senior Warden
Elbert C. Yuille, Junior Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr., Assistant
Grand Lecturer .............................................. 47.56
C. Earl Crane, Past Master
Joe Bookman, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

427
Mileage Allowed

Loyalty ............................No. 529....Jack E. Taylor, Master·-··············-··········-··-··· 47.56
Nat P. Morey, Senior Warden
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Past Master
and Inspector ············-···································· 47.56
Sun Garden ....................No. 530.-Joe A. Jenkins, Seriior Warden..·-··················· 23.76
Herbert R. Hargrave, Past Master
and Inspector ····-----·············--······-··················· 23.76
E. L. Coyle, Past Master
Alexandria ...................... No. 531.... Henry E. Carey, Master
Harry A. Bolger, Senior Warden
James M. Kinberger, Junior Warden
Frank F. Goodman, Past Master
Smyrna ............................No. 532.._June Barnes, Senior Worden............................ 9.00
C. D. Ludden, Junior Warden
Azure ······-····-···········--No. 533...Ervin V. Stone, Master·-··--·········-······-·········· 49.'46
Alfred A. McLean, Senior Warden
Forest Hill ......................No. 534....Clifton L. McKinley, Master
Earl S. Fall, Senior Warden
Alexander Hamilton ...... No. 535.... Emerson W. Hill, Senior Warden.... ·-······· 47.56
Roland W. Snow, Junior Warden
Seal Rock ........................No. 536....W. Harold Haskens, Master
Edwin W. Korte, Senior Warden
Harry H. Jacobson, Past Master
Edwin W. Bode, Past Master
Utopia ..............................No. 537....0. Seymour Larabee, Master...................·-···· 47.56
Roger F. Wright, Senior Warden
F. T. Nagle, Past Master
Ascot ·--··---··-······-····No. 538.... Martin 0. Veland, Master............... ·-·-··-·-··· 47.56
Wallace D. Keown, Senior Warden
Belvedere ........................No. 539 ....Carl Molin, Senior Warden.............................. 47.56
Paul Clark, Junior Warden
Queen Beach ······-·········No. 5'40....Clyde A. Jones, Master.....·-···-·-··-·---···-·-··-·-·· 47.56
Charles E. Whittle, Senior Warden
Marvel Fairchild, Junior Warden
George E. Towner, Past Master
Fred S. J. Hancock, Past Master
H. M. Stephens --·-·-····No. 541....Robert H. Taylor, Master
Russell H. Archerd, Junior Warden
Wilson E. Newlon, Past Master
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Past Master
A. Lewis Koue, Past Master
Lankershim ·········-·-········No. 542....John M. Collins, Senior Warden...................... 47.56
Clarence A. Ross, Past Master
Signal ··············-··········-·No. 543....Kenneth E. Foster, Master................................ 47.56
Jesse ]. Hill, Senior Warden
Glendale -····-·······-····--..No. 5ii....Marion W. Hansen, Master.............................. 47.56
George C. Syvarth, Junior Warden
Jonathan ..........................No. 545.... Lew E. Spangler, Master
Perry Spencer, Senior Warden
Frank Furay, Junior Warden
Milton Knight, Past Master
San Gabriel ...................•No. 546....Elton T. Knowles, Senior Warden................ 48.38
Herbert M. Shaffer, Junior Warden
Arcadia ·············-·-·-·····-No. 547....Charles S. Boerstler, Master............................ 47.56
Harold Hawkins, Senior Warden
Hugh Allen, Past Master

428
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Triangle --·-····················No. 548....Wilbur H. Jones, Master...............................__ 47.56
Edgar F. Howard, Senior Warden
Geo. W. Ellis, Junior Warden
Justice ············-················No. 549.... Arthur G. Nilsen, Master
Earl Conner, Senior Warden
Emmet J. Pierce, Junior Warden
Rush Manbert, Past Master
and Inspector
William W. Barry, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
George David Hom, Past Master
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
Seaport ·-·········--··········--No. 550....John L. Umphreys, Master
Ernest C. Krause, Senior Warden
Edward J. Barrett, Junior Warden
Walter H. E. von Konsky, Assistant
Grand Lecturer
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
John George Wullschleger, Past Master
Lakeshore ·-········-···········No. 551....J. E. Sawyer, Master
M ynard Jones, Senior Warden
Paul S. Boren, Junior Warden
Howard S. Gerrish, Past Master
Lee B. Ferguson, Past Master
Chas. C. Buckley, Past Master
Semper Vireos ·-···········-No. 552.... Charles H. Hammond, Senior Warden........ 30.78
Alexander Duncan, Past Master
and Inspector ................................................ 30.78
Educator -················-·····No. 554.... Donald C. Singer, Master
William M. Milligan, Senior Warden
Alton Wood, Junior Warden
C. D. Stone, Past Master
White Pine .,....................No. 555...• Not represented
Fairfax -···········-············No. 556.... John F. Cartamo, Master
Kenneth S. Maslen, Senior Warden
Charles R. Banfield, Junior Warden
Joseph R. Filippo, Past Master
Hermosa -·-····-····-·--···No. 557....Royal George Ford, Senior Warden.............. 47.56
Point Firmin ··············----No. 558....W. Curtis Lampshire, Master.·--··--·--·-··-··· 4756
W. Darrell Milton, Senior Warden
Craftsmen -···········-··-····No. 559.... Albert T. Luck, Master·-····-······················--- 4736
James G. Tucker, Senior Warden
Plymouth ···-·············-·--No. 560.... Hal H. Bennett, Master
William F. Stumpf, Senior Warden
Gerald E. Rhine, Junior Warden
Edward H. Siems, Deputy Grand Master
James G. Disher, Past Master
and Inspector
Leon C. Babbitt, Past Master
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
Fred L. Waters, Past Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
Oliver M. Pace, Past Master
Herbert A. Adams, Past Master
Herbert M. McCracken, Past Master
William G. Thumann, Past Master
East San Diego ..............No. 561....Robert G. Woll, Master...·--·-·····---:·-·····-····· 50.84
Morris D. Daron, Senior Warden
·
Harry K. Ford. Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

429
Mileage Allowed

Pyramid ---····················No. 562....Edwin J. Bitzer, Master
John H. Brooke, Senior Warden
Germain Wiley Miller, Past Master
South Park -···········-···No. 563.... Milton J. Thomason, Master·-·--··-················ 47.56
Carl H. Lindegren, Senior Warden
Bert R. Gustelius. Past Master
Arthur C. Arnold, Past Master
Max F. Vail, Past Master
Foothill --·-··-···-····-···No. 564....Lionel C. Raymond, Master
Ray A. Farley, Senior Warden
Charles S. Doyle, Junior Warden
Ben L. Miller, Past Master
West Adams -······--··-··No. 565....E. Kenneth Euler, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
James A. Garfield ····-····No. 566....Charles M. Van Wormer, Master.................. 47.56
Ralph W. Collins, Senior Warden
Henry Honaker, Past Master
Searchlight ········-·--···No. 567....Clare R. Simpson, Master......•.·-················-- 47.56
Wallace B. Harville, Senior Warden
Park Boulevard ·-·--···No. 568.... Harry D. Hosac, Senior Warden
Willis V. McBeth, Junior Warden
Chateau Thierry ·········-·No. 569.... LeRoy W. Clovis, Master
John E. Abbott, Senior Warden
Ralph E. Prentice, Junior Warden
Howard S. Kaulbach, Past Master
and Inspector
Beryl B. Berry, Past Master
David L. Babcock, Past Master
Clarence I. Rayne, Past Master
Military Service ________ No. 570.... Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Fred L. Somers, Past Master
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master
Robert J. Martin, Past Master
Chang Wah Lee, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck........ No. 571....Herbert R. Fairchild, Master
.
Gilbert L. Torgeson, Senior Warden
George Jelten, Junior Warden
E. W. Davis, Past Master
and Inspector
James Madison ·······-·····No. 572.... Norman E. Smith, Master--·····-·····-···-··-··-··· 47.56
Wesley 0. Elderkin, Senior Warden
Hillcrest ·---··-'··-··--No. 573.... Edward Frazee, Master
Robert Stille, Senior Warden
S. W. Hackett -·-··········No. 574....William E. Rife, Jr., Senior Warden.............. 50.84
William E. Davis, Junior Warden
Fort Crook .....•....••.•........No. 575....J. R. Fotheringhame, Master...........................• 41.40
C. Milton Foster, Senior Warden
El Cajon Valley ·········-·No. 576.... Wallace R. Cate, Master......·-··-················-· 51.80
Vernor B. Davey, Senior Warden
Byron J. Conrad, Junior Warden
Laurence K. Winn, Past Master
Sunnyside --·-············-·•No. 577....J. Keith Elschlager, Master.....................•..•..... 47.56
Murray_ H. Todd, Senior Warden
Louis H. Mahler, Past Master
Percy L. Bruner, Sr., Past Master
F. Wesley Davies, Past Master........•·-··········· 47.56
Guy A. Tolle, Past Master

430
. Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Name of Lodge

Mileage Allowed

Progressive ·················-·- No. 578.... McDonald H. Curtis, Master........................_ 47.56
William H. Durham, Senior Warden
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Roy 0 . Miller, Past Master
Perry R. Borden, Past Master
Warren G. Harding ......No. 579....Carl W. Brainard, Master.................-............. 7.24
David Wilson, Senior Warden
Ray M. Smith, Junior Warden
Henry R. Brown, Past Master
Santa Maria ....................No. 580....Ewing Bernhard, Senior Warden.................... 50.84
Kay Vincin Smith, Past Master
Security ····-···········--···No. 581....Bryce C . Rathbun, Senior Warden................ 32.48
Earl D. Forgie, Junior Warden
Rialto ··················-··········No. 582....Willlam M. Shilkett, Senior Warden............ 52.24
Wasco ·······-···········-···..No. 583.... Max D. Hendricks, Senior Warden.....·-····-·· 26.58
Fred Pritschke, Past Master
and Inspector ·······-···················-·················· 26.58
Harding ......................_ No. 584....Anson McArthur, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
Louis E. Sage, Past Master
Manchester ············-···--No. 585.... Floyd E. Fowler, Master.....·-···············--······- 47.56
Clark Humphrey, Senior Warden
Ralph C. Ferguson, Junior Warden
John D. Shahan, Past Master
Thomas C. Lloyd, Past Master
Garden Grove ·-············No. 586....Edw. G. Enault, Master................................._ 49.82
Valley Forge ..................No. 587.... Charles S. Barrett, Master·-···- ·······- ··-·- ··- 47.56
Elbert G. Thomas, Senior Warden
Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
El Sereno ........................No. 588.... Melvin D. Flamm, Master.....·-····-···-············· 47.56
Hernaldo H. Avila, Senior Warden
Kauai ··············--····- ·---No. 589....George Shadford Waterhouse. Jr.,
Senior Warden .............- ...............................328.U
Compass ..................- ......No. 590.... Howard C. Blaney. Senior Warden................ 50.38
.
Raymond Roy Bowman, Junior Warden
·
Escalon ................_________No. 591....Charles Edgar Fee, Master................·---------· 7.00
George Arthur Wallace, Senior Warden
A. T . Roberson, Past Master
and Inspector ................................................ 7.00
Tujunga ..........................No. 592....E . J. Rookhuizen, Past Master..- ................... 47.56
All States ........................No. 593....Lawrence J. McEldowney, Master.................. 47.56
Homer M. Walker, Junior Warden
Clyde Dionis, Past Master
Service ··--·············- ·-··--No. 594....Lewis M. Gibbs, Master_.................................. 47.56
Charles J. Wentz, Senior Warden
Ralph F. Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell..No. 595....Graham A. Backus, Senior Warden.........._.... 47.56
Frank L. Robertson, Junior Warden
James G. Lyons, Past Master
Guardian ___..................No. 596....Ray McCall Sturgis, Master- ......................... 47.56
Vere D. Maxon, Senior Warden
Howard Laurent, Grand Pursuivant
and Inspector ................................................ 47.56
Pearl Harbor ..................No. 598....William Bryan Jennings, Master....................310.00
Carmelita ................- _ No. 599....William A. Halliday, Master............................ 48.60
Milton J. Seidel, Senior Warden

No. of Lodge

Representatives

431
Mileage Allowed

J. Tyler Parker. Jr., Past Master
and Inspector .................................................. 47.56
E. A. Lockett, Past Master
Lynwood ..................- ......No. 600....Hillyard H. Bristol, Master.............................. 47.56
LeRoy Shadrach, Senior Warden
Edward M. Stitz, Junior Warden
Grizzly -·--······--········....No. 601....Walter H. Young, Past Master
and Representative ··- ········---------------------·---- 29.50
Earl D. Fonda, Past Master
and Inspector .................................................. 29.50
Melrose ·········--·········-·····No. 602...•J~:o~J'.E~~~s!:~;·:w~;d;~·-··············· 47.56

..

Dimond ............................No. 603....George W . Shokal, Master
.
Eugene F. Williams, Senior Warden
Iving S. Ketels, Past Master
Jubilee ..............................No. 604.... Harold G. Kragh, Senior Warden.................. 48.78
John Kahler, Past Master
Glassel! Park ..................No. 605....Lawrence E. Houston, Master...............·---·-· 47.56
Frank W . Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 47.56
Sojourner ........................No. 607....Thomas Kristen Nielsen, Senior Warden........ 49.02
Francis Theodore Johnson Junior Warden
Granada ..........................No. 608....F. N. Gilbert, Master........................................ 47.56
A. T . Kline, Senior Warden
Don G. Campbell, Past Master
Provident .................- .•.No. 609....Robert I. Chadwick, Junior Warden.............. 7.24
Leslie E. Wood. Past Grand Master.............. 7.24
Elmhurst ..........................No. 610....John ·w. Noble, Master
Arthur L. Peterson. Senior Warden
Canoga .............~---··-·-··No. 61 L..Norrls Albert Reavis, Senior Warden.......... 47.56
Herbert Walter Allen, Past Master
Temple City ....................No. 612.... LeRoy C. Baumgardner, Senior Warden...... 47.56
Rupert C. Curtis, Past Master
Three Pillars ···-··-·-··-·No. 613.... John L. Bird, Master...........·- ··························· 7.24
Paul W . Carrington, Senior Warden
Miles J. McClelland, Past Master and
Inspector ·- ·············-······-·········- ··-·····-'·· - 7.24
Larchmont -·- ···- -··--······No. 614.... Herbert Cooper, Master---···-···--···- --·--·--·- 47.56
Roy Lineaweaver, Senior Warden
George P. Salm, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 47.56
Newcomb Condee, Past Master
Hemet ··-····-··-····--··-No. 615.... Robert F. Raymond, Master......- ..................... 56.9i
Ray R. Bell, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 56.9i
R. E. Dolley ....................No. 616....James N. Scott, Master...................................... 47.56
Glen 0. Jones, Senior Warden
Big Bear .................._ .....No. 617....Davil Harold Callahan, Junior Warden........ 52.24
Southland - -······------·-----·No. 618.... Harry L. Lewallen, Senior Warden................ 47.56
John A. Crosbie, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 47.56
Alfred H. Campion, Past Master
John W. Street, Past Master
Warren K. Anderson. Past Master
Neptune ..............._..._ ..No. 619....R. L. Day, Master.............................................. 47.56
Owen J. McCartney, Senior Warden

432
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Point Loma -········-·-·······No. 620....Sherman L. Holcom, Master--········--·- 50.84
James M. Johnson, Senior Warden
Franklin A. Plank, Past Master
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
The Gardens ······-·····---No. 621....Alfred James Keeler, Master-·-···········-······- 47.56
Floyd S. Vandegrift, Senior Warden
Rudolph Mezori, Junior Warden
George V. Jameson, Past Master
Atwater -····················-···No. 622....E. Ray Brown, Master·-·---·-·····-···-·- 47.56
Donald P. Wilkinson. Senior Warden
Frederick H. Chapman, Past Master
Claude M. Sherrard, Past Master
Menorah -···········----No. 623....Herman I. Taylor, Junior Warden.................. 47.56
Fortitude ···················-··-No. 624....Howard Self, Junior Warden
Lee E. Gorman, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ··········-··-·No. 625....Paul O. McGraw, Master--···--·--··········-- 4756
Roy G. Crum, Senior Warden
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Gordon S. Duncan. Past Master
Chula Vista -················-No. 626....Emerson A. Logan, Senior Warden................ 47.56
George A. Ward, Junior Warden
Lamanda Park ................No. 627....Ben 0. Sword, Master----·----········-·- 48.60
Fay R. Shaver, Senior Warden
Truth - -···············--No. 628....John Edgar Tanguary, Master-····--············- 47.56
William Luther Moore, Senior Warden
Fairview --··········-···----No. 629.... Lester W. Burbank, Master--···········-····-- 47.56
W. Al Richard, Senior Warden
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
Ingleside -···············-·'····No. 630.... Harry Stanton Walker, Master
Harry Lester Wilson, Junior Warden
Lloyd E . Wilson, P. G. M., Grand Secretary
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Robert M. Gane, Past Master
Henry C. Clausen. Past Master
Benevolence -·-········---No. 631._Jerry F. Miller, Master____ ___________ 4756
Richard E. Filfleld, Senior Warden
Normal Heights -·····-No. 632.... W. S. McLees, Senior Warden..............___ 50.84
Bentley W. Buck, Junior Warden
Poinsettia _ _ _ _ _No. 633....Carl A. Moisling, Master_···-·····-····-- 39.98
Homer T. Main, Senior Warden
Guy S. Harts, Sr., Junior Warden
Orey L. Riley, Past Master
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Master.......·-··-···- 39.98
Victorville ......................No. 634.... E. G. Fredrich, Master·-··-----·---·····-··-··· 47.66
Dean Stalford, Junior Warden
Riverside ........................No. 635....Harold B. Walker, Master·---·······-·············- 52.24
NaDell E. Jensen, Senior Warden
Henry W. Coil, Past Master
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
F. H. Butterfield, Past Master
John Marshall - ---·-----No. 636....G. Eliton Barnes, Master.............................____ 47.56
Mervin J. Davidson, Senior Warden
Albert A Buelow, Junior Warden
Oscar L. Lundberg, Past Master
Edward A. Underwood, Past Master
Atwill T. Morgan, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

433
Mileage Allowed

Palisades ·-·--····-··---No. 637._Charles N. Carrell, Senior Warden.·-········-·· 47.56
John C. Boggs, Past Master
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
Indian Rock ·-···-····--No. 638....John Markley Server, Jr., Master
Hollis Gerald Duckworth, Senior Warden
Hubert Francis Stanley, Past Master
Composite -··-·······- ·-·-··No. 639....Louis Leo Levi, Senior Warden.---·-············· 47.56
Veritas ·-···-----··No. 640....William Frank Poynter, Master
Walter Keates, Senior Warden
Oscar Wendel Norman, Junior Warden
Washington Irving Kohnke, Past Master and
Inspector
Charles Russell O'Donnell, Past Master
Reginald Austin Wiswell, Past Master
James A. Foshay ···-·······No. 641....Cecil Herod Thomas, Senior Warden....---···· 47.56
Roy J. Adair, Past Master
La Cumbre ----···-·-··No. 642.... Alfred T. Burri, Master·-····-·······-·······-······- 37.74
Duncan McDougall, Senior Warden
Alta Loma -··········-····-No. 643....Herbert W. Hedrick, Master·--·-···-······-·-··- 47.56
Floyd 0. Mason, Senior Warden
Lomita -···----~------·-No. 644.._Michael Joseph Hickey, Senior Warden........ 47.56
Mark Otto Temple, Junior Warden
A. F. E. Irwin ·····-------No. 645....Lloyd A. Wells, Senior Warden.................... 47.56
Edward L. West. Junior Warden
William A. Dahlquist. Past Master
Metropolitan ·······-···-···No. 646.-Franklin N. Everett, Master............................ 47.56
W. Ray Murray, Senior Warden
Hawthorne --········-·:...No. 647_..Loren F. Weddle, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
John A. Owen, Past Master
Damascus ·-··············-·No. 648....Joseph L. Ousley, Master......---·-·············-·- 52.24
William G. Chamberlain, Senior Warden
James L. Wingrove. Junior Warden
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master
Florence -··-··········---No. 649....Loren M. Heft, Muter....·-·······-·-··············· 47.56
La Brea ---············-··-·No. 650....Anton Hookanson. Master·-·····-······················· 47.56
W. Jas. Mann, Senior Warden
George W. Burch, Jr.. Past Master
Russell Lee, Past Master
Ray S. Smith, Past Master
Charles F. Laverty, Past Master
John W. Swank, Past Master·
Menlo Park -··--·········-No. 651.._William E. Todd, Junior Warden......·-·······- 2.10
Herbert A. McKechnie, Past Master
David Wright, Past Master
John Ross Hardy. Past Master
Crescenta Valley _______No. 652.._lrvin Roscoe Lockhart, Senior Warden........ 47.56
Fontana ····-·-········---No. 653....De Inslee Swarts, Master:---····-·-············ 47.56
William E. Crawford, Senior Warden
Jordan -·······--··-·__No. 654....Wilhelm Mitzel, Senior Warden................._ 47.56
Leonard Gross, Past Master
Monte Vista ·-·········-····No. 655.... U. X. Tretter, Master.....·-···-··-----··--········ 47.56
Earl L. Milligan, Past Master
Citro! -·-····---~---No. 656.... Sam W . Dennis, Master...·-···-··-················ 49.70
Albert 0. Johnson, Jr., Senior Warden
Floyd F. Finch, Past Master
John D. Spreckels .....__No. 657....Charles L. Royer, Master-·•··-························ 50.84
James Brownlee, Senior Warden
Oilford 0. Whitmarsh, Junior Warden
John T. Martin, Past Master

434
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

435

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileage Allowed

Livingston ·····- ·······- -···No. 658....Martin Luther Gallaway, Senior Warden .....• 18.20
La Habra -- ·····················No. 659.... 0rville C. Siebe, Senior Warden.................. 49.42
Baldwin Park ·······-·····--·No. 660.... Marold Francis Ross, Junior Warden............ 47.56
Malta ·-··············-······- No. 661....Arthur Moore, Senior Warden........................ 47.56
Henry Knox ·······-··---··No. 662.... Marshall St. Clair Wells, Master.................. 47.56
Alfred Winfield Jones, Junior Warden
Ojai -······················-····-·No. 663.... John Sidney DeRosa, Master............................ 35.12
Carl M. Burqess, Senior Warden
Clifford C. Harris, Junior Warden
Kaweah -···-·······-······-···No. 665 ....Leonard E. Jones, Master..·-···-·····-····-··········· 27.38
Kenneth E . Kress, Past Master
Reseda -·····-···················No. 666....Frank S. Barnard, Master.·- -··········- -············· 47.56
John W . Workman, Senior Warden
Meridian ·····-·---·········No. 667 ....Myron P . Trumbower, Master........·-············· 47.56
Frank W. Raddatz, Senior Warden
William C. Bolton, Junior Warden
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master................ 47.56
John M. Plummer, Past Master
San Gorgonio ·····-···········No. 668....Cleo M. Huse, Senior Warden................·-····· 54.66
Raleigh Biss, Junior Warden
John P. Jarman ..............No. 669....Kenneth Hardy, Master·- ·······--···········-·- ····- 3.92
Ray Elam, Senior Warden..·-······-··················· 3.92
Minoid Gonzales, Past Master
Nels H. Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector ···--······················-·-························ 3.92
Greenleaf - -···················- No. 670....H. M. Topping, Jr., Senior Warden.............. 48.78
E. B. Skinner, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................................ 48.78
San Clemente ·- ···········- No. 671....William Holmes, Past Master and
Representative ···-·······-·····- - ······················ 49 .14
Laguna Beach ·······-----No. 672- .. William Ben Sorrells, Senior Warden............ 47.56
Far West ··············- ·······No. 673.... Walter Lubchenko, Master
Cecil Tuff, Senior Warden
Earl B. Myers, Junior Warden
John 0. Clasby, Past Master
Rowland E . Mason, Past Master
Los Cerritos ....................No. 674....Milton Emlein, Master--··-·····-····················· 47.56
Arthur Sissons, Senior Warden
Modesto ..........................No. 675 ....Jerry H. Howe, Senior Warden......- ................ 6.80
Willow Glen ···-········-···No. 676....Eldred J. Boes, Master...............·-·····--········ 3.92
Thornton D. Webster, Past Master
Liberal Arts - ·-··- ·······-···No. 677....Delbert W. Colley, Maater.............................. 47.56
•
Howard M. Wilson, Senior Warden
Ellsworth Meyer, Senior Grand Warden .... 47.56
Reynold E. Blight, Past Master
Altadena ·····················-··No. 678....Verner A. Jacobson, Master............................ 47.56
Marc L. Maylor, Senior Warden
Canby Cross ··- ············-No. 679....Gilbert Osborne, Senior Warden.................... 43.22
Carmel -----·····----··-······-··-No. 680....Gordon C. Browne, Master·---·-·---··-···-···-·-----·· 10.00
Dos Palos ........................No. 681....John H. Sorenson, Master................................ 11.54
Harold R. Green, Senior Warden
Marvin R. McHenry, Junior Warden
Glenn C. Holmes, Past Master........................ 11.54
Barstow ··········-·-···- ······No. 682....Dorse K. Fissell, Master.................................. 45.20
Redwood Empire - ··········No. 683.... Not represented

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Trona ······· -·····- -······No. 684....~mi.!" f.lo~:p~:Si::~~;··~d······--·--·· 45.50
Inspector - -- --·············--··- ·····- ···-···· 55.16
San Marino ....................No. 685....George R. Best, Master.............- ---··-··············· 4756
George R. Friederich, Senior Warden
Leo E. Sievert, Past Master
William B. McKesson, Past Master
Albany ····- ·······-····-·······No. 686....William Richard Ross, Master
Carl Jennings MacWilliams, Senior Warden
Frank Scott Spires, Junior Warden
Ambrose Ray Graham, Past Master
Vista -·······-····-···-···-···-No. 687... Alex McDougall, Senior Warden..........- ....... 54.40
Oildale ···---··- ·- ·······No. 688....Bernard John Miller, Master.......·-·-·-- ·--·-·- 32.48
Lawrence Lee Johns, Senior Warden
Frank Harold Martin, Junior Warden
Fred Carlton Epperson, Past Master
Pohona •...........................No. 689....Hugh R. Babcock, Master..............·-··············· 31.54
San Carlos ...................... No. 690....Robert Tyler Pratt, Master
Walter Carl Simon, Senior Warden
John Kent Hopkirk, Junior Warden
Indian Wells -····- ··········No. 691....Art R. Hestand, Master.........- ......................... 45.50
Theodore C. Parker, Senior Warden
Travelers -···- - - ········No. 692....Not Represented
Palm Springs - ··- ····- ···-·No. 693....Maurice H. Libott, Senior Warden................ 50.46
C. S. Raymond, Junior Warden
San Antonio ······-·········No. 694....Richard F. McCurdy, Master...·- ·······-·····--···· 47.56
Dudley E. Goddard, Senior Warden
Maudell ..........................No. 695....Byron Willis Weekes, Master....................-. 32.48
Frank Moses Wilkson, Senior Warden
Kenneth Robinson Creswell, Junior Warden
Crossroads •....•- .............No. 696...Edward J.B. Coyne, Master..........................•. 50.84
Joseph Petruso, Senior Warden
Earle F. Sheffield, Junior Warden
St. Elmo ·-----··-·····No. 697....George C. Ferenz, Master
John Wright Haugh, Senior Warden
Edmond O. Burger, Junior Warden
Wm. D. Stephens ______ No. 698....Curtis C. Legerton, Master.........................Arthur M. Loomis, Junior Warden
Ralph G. Ritchie, Past Master
Bixby Knolls ····-···-·····--

4756

·-U• D.Perry H. Barrett, Master·-··- ···········-···-·····:... 47.56

Donald Baine McKar· Senior Warden
Herbert Lee Chase, unior Warden
Ponderosa - · -·--·-- - ··-···- ···U D.Joseph Francis Coyle, Master........................ 23.76
Paul Clarendon McCorkle, Junior Warden
Owen Leslie Craghead, Past Master
TOTAL ··························-···-·········--- $22,810.+i
NoTE: In accordance with the law, payments were made to Past Masters, where
shown, in official and authorized capacities, and not to Past Masters as such.
See reports of Committee on Credentials and Committee on Pay of Members.

436

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

UST OF· CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5948
Lodge

437

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Location

Charter
luued

Fees

Aflll.
Fees

Dues

Lodge
Mem-

bers

1 California ····················- 1 San Francisco ........ 18 S'O 100 20.00 12 S'39
2 Western Star ................ 2
Shasta .................... 18S'O
S'O
6.00
9 142
Sacramento ............ 18S'O
3 Tehama ·-····················· 3
7S' 10.00
9 677
4 Benicia ·-········-············· S' Benicia .................. 18S'O
7'f
12 210
S' Tuolumne •................... 8 Sonora .................... 18S'O
7S'
2.00 12 2S'l
6 Corinthian .................... 9 Marysville .............. 18 S'O
S'O
9 360
7 San Jose ........................ 10
San Jose ·-······ ....... 18S'O
7S'
S'.00
9 499
8 Yount ............................ 12 Napa ...................... 18S'l
60
12 4S'2
9 Nevada .......................... 13
Nevada City .......... 18S'l
S'O
9 161
10 Temple ·········-·····-......... 14 Sonoma .................. 18S'l
S'O
2.00 12 176
11 Eureka .......................... 16 Auburn ·-··············· 18S'l
S'O
9 290
12 La Parfaite Union ........ 17 San Francisco ........ 18S'2 100 lS'.00 12 123
18 Downieville ............ 18S'2
13 Mountain Shade
S'O
9
48
14 San Joaquin .................. 19 Stockton ................ 18 S'2
so
12 703
lS' Washington _............... 20
Sacramento·-.......... 1SS'2
7S' 10.00
9 699
16 Hawaiian ...................... 21
Honolulu, T. H . .... 18S'2 12S' 10.00 12 479
17 Occidental .................... 22
San Francisco ........ 18S'2 100 2S'.OO 12 753
18 Madison ......._............... 23
Grass Valley .......... 1SS'3
78
10 300
19 Mariposa ...................... 24 Mariposa ................ 1SS'3
S'O
9 194
20 Georgetown .................. 2 S' Georgetown .......... 18S'3
S'O
S'.00
9
62
21 El Dorado .................... 26 Placerville .............. l SS'3
S'O
S'.00
9 223
22 Trinity .......................... 27 Weaverville ............ 18S'3
S'O
S'.00
9 106
23 Golden Gate ................ 30 San Francisco ........ 18 S'3
60 10.00 12 620
24 Gold Hill ...................... 32 Lincoln ·-···-···..-··· 1SS'3
S'O
1.00
9
S9
2S' Ophir __......................... 33 Murphy's ................ 18S'3
S'O
4.00
9
60
26 San Diego .................... 3S' San Diego .............. 1SS'3
80
12 S93
27 Howard ........................ 37 Yreka .................... 18S'4
S'O
1.00
9 2S'O
28 Santa Cruz .................... 38 Santa Cruz··---········ 18H
80
1.00 12 416
29 Sacramento .................. 40 Sacramento ............ 18S'4
7'f 10.00
9 707
30 Martinez ........................ 41
7S'
Martinez ·--··········· 1854
12 3H
31 Los Angeles .................. 42 Los Angeles .......... 18 H
70 10.00 12 749
32 Hiram .......- ................. 43 El Dorado .............. 1SS'4
75 20.00
9
70
3 3 Mount Moriah .............. 44 San Francisco ........ 18 S'4
100 10.00 12 416
34 Crescent ........................ 4S'
Crescent City •.....•. 18S'4
S'O
6.00
9 164
3S' Texas ............................ 46
San Juan ·-··-.......... 1SS'4
S'O
1.00 12
47
36 Forbestown .................. S'O Forbestown ............ 18S'4
S'O
S'.00
9
SS'
37 Illinoistown .................. S'l
Colfax .................... 18H
'iO
9
Sl
3 8 Suisun .......................... H
Suisun .................... lSH
S'O
12 lSO
S9 Volcano ........................ S'6 Volcano .................. 18H
S'O 10.00
9
S'O
40 Santa Rosa .................... 'f7
Santa Rosa ............ lSH
7S'
S'.00
9 S'39
7S' 10.00
41 Union ·-······················· S'8 Sacramento ............ 18H
9 663
42 Gravel Range ................ S'9 Camptonville .......... 18H
S'O
12
66
43 Plumas .......................... 60 Quincy .................. 18H
'iO 2S'.OO 12
171
44 Live Oak ...................... 61
Oakland ................ 18H
7S' 10.00 12 1018
4S' Natoma ........................ 64 Folsom .................... 18H
S'O
S'.00
9 168
46 Amador ........................ 6'i Jackson .................. lSH
S'O
S'.00
9
so
47 Forest ............................ 66 Alleghany .............. 18H
S'O
9
40
48 Morning Star ................ 68 Stockton ·-............. 18 S'S'
80
12 S'70
49 Enterprise .................... 70 Yuba City .............. lSH
S'O
S'.00 12 27S'
S'O Bear Mountain .............. 76 Angel's Camp ........ 18H
S'O
3.00 12
66
S'l Calaveras ...................... 78
San Andreas .......... 18H
9 104
S'O 10.00
S'2 Humboldt .................... 79 Eureka .................... 18H
S'O
18 403
S'3 Ione .............................. 80 Ione ........................ 18S'6
S'O
9
93
S'4 Yolo ...................- ......... 81
Yolo ...................... 18S'6
S'O
9
72
S'S' Vesper .......................... 84 Red Bluff ................ 18S'6 100
12 216
~6 Naval ............................ 87
Vallejo .................. 18S'6
7S' 10.00
9 1124

No.

Location

Charter
luued

S'7 Rose's Bar .....- ............. 89
Si°nartville •............. 1856
58 North Star .................. _ 91
Fort Jones .............. 1SS'6
S'9 St. Helena .................... 93
St. Helena .............. 18S'6
60 Henry Clay .................. 9S'
Sutter Creek ·-······· 1856
Homitos ................ 18S'6
61 Hornitos ·············-······· 98
62 Yosemite ...................•.. 99 Merced .................. 1S56
Dutch Flat .............. 18'i6
63 Clay ·--·-··········-·······--101
Oroville .................. 18 S' 6
64 Oroville ··-···--··-·······-103
6S' Lexington ·-······--······--104 El Monte ................ 18'$6
66 Arcata ---··-··-··--·····106 Arcata .................... 18S'7
18S'7
67 Pajaro ---··-·-·--·110 Watsonville
Chico ...................... 18'>7
6S Chico ··---- ·-·---1 11
69 Summit ---···--112 • Knight's Ferry ........ 18S'7
San Leandro .......... 1S57
70 Eden ----·-·-·······-···113
Sacramento ............ 1857
71 Concord -··-····-·····-117
18S'8
72 Fidelity ·················-··-120 San Francisco
73 Alamo ..........................122 Walnut Creek ........ 1SS'8
Healdsburg ............ 18'i8
74 Sotoyome ---··--·--123
7S' Table Mountain ..- ..... 124 Cherokee ·······-··..··· 1SS'8
Sebastopol .............. 18'>8
76 La Fayette ....................126
San Francisco ........ 18S'8
77 Hermann ·---···--·-····-127
7S Visalia -··-···-·-····---128 Visalia .................... 1SS'9
1SS'9
79 Nicolaus -···-··············129 Wheatland
Woodbridge .......... 18S'9
80 Woodbridge ..........-.131
Greenville .............. 18S'9
81 Sincerity ·--···-··--····-·132
82 Vacaville ......................134 Vacaville ................ 18'i9
S3 Valley ----·····-···-13S' Linden .................... 1860
S4 PaciJic ···········-····-···--136 San Francisco ........ 1860
San Francisco ........ 1860
85 Crockett -··-·---···-139
S6 Curtis ·············-·····-·-··140 Cloverdale .............. 1860
Knights Landing .... 1860
87 Grafton ·-····---·--·····141
88 Franklin ·-···-·--·--14?. Courtland .............. 1861
San Francisco ........ 1861
S9 Orfantal -···-··········--144
Bloomfield .............. 1861
90 Vitruvius -·-·--·····---I4S'
91 Abell - .........................146 Ukiah .................... 1861
92 Eel River ...................... 147 Fortuna .................. 1861
Susanville .............. 1862
93 Lassen -···-··-·---·-···-149
94 Molino -···--·-----1 S'O Tehama .................. 1862
9S' Woodland ................_l S'6 Woodland .............. 1863
96 Keystone .......- ...-···- ···161 Milton .................... 1863
97 Harmony .................-.164
Sierra City .............. 1864
1864
98 Excelsior ·····-···-······166 San Francisco
Centerville .............. 1864
99 Alameda -··-··--··--167
100 Redwood City ·······-·····168 Redwood City •....... 1864
San Francisco
1864
101 Mission ·-·······-····--···169
102 Elk Grove _ _..:.......173
Elk Grove .............. 186S'
103 Drytown --·--·---174 Plymouth .............. 186S'
104 Antioch -··------17S' Antioch .................. 186S'
San Bernardino ...... 1866
lOS' Phoenix -···-·-·----17S
106 Mendocino ..................,.179 Mendocino ............ 1866
107 Petaluma ·--···-··-180 Petaluma ................ 1866
Windsor ................ 1866
108 Russian River ·-···-···--181
109 Arbuckle ·-···-·····-··--182 Arbuckle ................ 1867
110 Clear Lake ....................183
Lower Lake ............ 1867
111 Sierra Valley ..........-184 Sierraville ···········-· 1867
112 Claiborne ......................18' Point Arena .......... 1867
113 Evening Star -·-·-···-186 Etna Mills ·········-··· 1867
Gilroy .................... 1868
114 Keith -······--·······187
11" Oakland -----····-·188 Oakland ................ 1868

Aflll.

Mem·

F-

Fees

Dues

50
50

S'.00
S'.00
1.00

9
9
12

S'O
60
S'O
S'O
S'O
S'O
100

10.00
S'.00
1.00

S'O

S'O
7'f
S'O
7S'
7S'
100
7S'
7S'
80
S'O
7S'
7S'

10.00
10.00
S'.00

50

S'.00

10.00
15.00
'i .00
1.00

10.00

S'O

S'O
S'O

7S'
100
S'O
S'O
S'O
60
S'O
S'O
S'O
S'O
7S'
S'O
100
100
S'O
S'O
50

7S'
S'O
80
7S'
50
S'O
S'O
S'O
S'O
S'O
7S'

lS'

12
9
12
9
1S'
12
12
12
9
12
lS'

S'O
S'O
S'O
100
7S'

9
10
12
9
12
12
9

S'.00
12.00
20.00
2S'.OO
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00
2S'.OO
1.00

1.00
2.S'O
S'.00
20.00
S'.00
1.00
'i.00
10.00
5.00
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00
1.00
10.00
S'.00
2.00
1.00

9
9
9
12
9
12
12
9
9
lS
12
12
12
9
12
12
9
12
9
12
12
lS
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
12
12
9
9
12
9
12
12

ben
34
62
116
77
96
383
8'i
296
429
217
326
411
44
H3
31 S'
S'48
3 lS'
179
122
208
200
496
102
162
9S'
180
83
S'89
'$83
74
89
127
388
llS'
249
21S'
202
1 S'S
2S'l
2'i
19
S'22
144
S'l6
690
137
38
277
636
123
317
110
79
S'2
3S
'i3

4S'
164
928

438

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
lod11e

No.

116 Northern Light ............ 190
117 Marin ............................191
118 Santa Barbara ............•. 192
119 Ferndale ....•...................193
120 Mountain View ............ 194
121 Buckeye ........................195'
122 San Simeon .................. 196
123 Wilmington ·······-·········198
124 Hartley ........................199
125 Truckee ........................200
126 Silveyville ....................201
127 Pentalpha ...................... 202
128 Confidence •...................203
129 Salinas ...................- .....204
130 Olivet .........•..................205'
131 Stanislaus ......................206
132 Anaheim ...................... 207
133 Rio Vista ...................•..208
134 King David's ................209
135 Friendship ....................210
136 San Benito ....................211
137 So. San Francisco ........212
138 San Buenaventuro ........214
139 Oak Grove ·················--215
140 Doric ............................216
141 Monterey ......................217
142 Mosaic ..........................218
143 Speranza Italiana ..........219
144 Downey .....................••.220
145 Inyo ..............................221
146 Roseville ..........._......... 222
147 Bakersfield ....................224
148 Brooklyn ......................225'
149 San Mateo ....................226
150 Athens .••.......................228
151 Solano ..........................229
152 North Butte ..................230
153 Covelo ..........................231
154 Janesville ......................232
155 Calistoga •.....................233
156 Hope ............................234
157 Sujf?rise Valley ............23 5
158 Hi 's Ferry ..................236
159 Guadalupe ....................237
160 Colusa ..........................240
161 Santa Ana -·-···········---241
162 Magnolia ·····-·····-·····--242
163 Eucalyptus ....................243
164 Alcatraz ........................24-4
165 Laurel .......................... -24'$
166 Pomona ........................ 246
167 Fresno ..........................247
168 Alturas ..........................248
169 Adin .............................. 2'$0
170 Landmark ......................253
171 Reading ...:....................2'$4
172 Welcome .................••... 2'l'l
173 Lodi ..............................2 56
174 Penrhyn ........................ 2'$8

Charter
Issued

location

Millville .......................... 1868
San Rafael .............. 1868
Santa Barbara ............ 1868
Ferndale ....................... 1869
Mountain View ...... 1869
Winters
1869
Cambria :::::::::::::::::: 1869
Wilmington ............ 1869
Lakeport ................ 1869
Truckee ............................. 1869
Dixon .................______ 1869
Los Angeles ............... 1869
Castroville .......................... 1869
Salinas ............................... 1869
Corning ........................ 1870
Modesto ............................ 1870
Anaheim ····-----··--·-- 1870
Rio Vista ................ 1870
San Luis Obispo .... 1870
San Jose ................ 1871
Hollister ........................... 1871
San Francisco ............. 1871
Ventura ........................... 1871
Alameda .............................. 1871
San Francisco
1871
Monterey ................ 1871
Livermore ..................... 1872
San Francisco
1872
Downey .................. 1872
Independence .............. 1872
Roseville ........................ 1912
Bakersfield ·---········· 1873
East Oakland
1873
San Mateo .............. 1873
Davis ........................................ 1873
Vallejo
1873
Gridley ................................ 1873
Covelo .................................. 1874
Lassen ................................... 1874
Calistoga .............................. 1874
Beckwourth ·-·-······· 1874
Cedarville ........................ 1874
Newman ............................ 1874
Santa Maria ............ 1874
Colusa ................................. 1875
Santa Ana .............. 1876
Santa Barbara ................ 1876
Haywards .......................... 1876
West Oakland ........ 1877
Willows .................................... 1877
Pomona ·-··············· 1877
Fresno ..................................... 1878
Alturas .................................. 1878
Adin ......................................... 1878
Esparto ............................. 1879
Redding .............................. 1879
Lemoore
1879
Lodi ........:::::::::::~::: 1879
Penrhyn ............................ 1880
..... . ................. u

.....

439

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fees

Affil.

Fees

50
5.00
100 10.00
75'
50
50

75'
50

80
50

60
60
100
75'
75'
50

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

MemDues bers

9
12
15
9
9
5'.00 12
9
12
3.00 9
5.00 9
5.00 9
20.00 12
9
9
12
9
1.00 9
12
1.00 12
5.00 9
1.00 12
10.00 12
12
1.00 12
10.00 12

75
50
75'
80
75
50
75
75'
75
100
75
50 10.00
100
100
5.00
50
50
2.50
100
75
100
50
75 10.00
50
50
75
1.00
50
5.00
50 10.00
1.00
50
50 10.00
75 10.00
50 10.00
75
1.00
75
50
75 10.00
50
5.00
50 2.00
80
3.00
50 1.00
2.00
50
50
1.00
50
5'.00
7'i
50
'iO 3.00

83
516
307
102
302
137
110
512
224
98
144
570
48
461
107
541
388
146
404
675
143
260
384
609
494
12 244
12 167
12 331
9 458
9 154
12 317
12 719
12 592
18 393
9 1-41
9 596
12 173
63
9
9 131
9 105
9 119
9
74
9 142
9 121
12 148
12 538
15 374
12 384
9 606
12 220
12 370
9 632
12 151
15
84
9 108
12 192
12 190
9 351
9 142

lod11e

ll

No.

175 Evergreen ....................25'9
176 King Solomon's ............260
177 Tuscan •••.....•..•....•.........261
178 Lompoc ·-·········-·········262
179 Hesperian ....•........•...••.264
180 Orland ...................- .....265'
181 North East ....................266
182 Galt ........................·......267
183 Durant ..•..•....................268
184 Olive Branch ...............•269
185 Snow Mountain __.,.......271
186 Pasadena •.....................272
187 Anchor •....._..................273
188 Arroyo ············-·········-274
189 Oakdale ........................27'$
190 Selma ·······-···-··············277
191 Southern California ......278
192 Hanford ........................279
193 Madera •........................•280
194 Mount Shasta ..............281
195 Callayomi ......................282
196 South West ..................283
197 San Miguel ..................285'
198 Paso Robles ...•.........•....286
199 Winnedumah ................287
200 Maxwell ........................ 288
201 Elsinore ........................289
202 East Gate ·······-····-·······290
203 Santa Paula .................. 291
204 Los Gatos ......................292
205 Orange Grove ..............293
206 Traver ..........................294
207 Mt. Jackson ..................295'
208 Silver Gate ..............•.....296
209 Dunsmuir ......................297
210 Liberty ..........................299
211 Redlands ......................300
212 Ontario ........................301
213 Santa Lucia ..................302
214 Porterville .................•..303
215 Reedley ........................304
216 Azusa ···-···············-·····305'
217 Ashlar ..........................306
218 Santa Monica ···-········-307
219 Monrovia ...................... 308
220 Delano ..........................309
221 Sisson ·-····-···-·············310
222 Los Banos -·················312
223 Tehachafi · .................... 313
224 Temesca ..................- ... 314
225' Norwalk ........................315'
226 Sanger ..•.•...•.....•...........316
227 Fallbrook •..~..................317
228 Emmanuel .................... 318
229 Hollenbeck ·············--319
230 South Gate ....................320
231 Alisa! ............:............... 321
232 Alhambra ......................322
233 Whittier ........................ 323

location

Charter
Issued

Affil.

FHS

Riverside ........................ 1880
75'
San Francisco ............. 1880
75
Williams .......................... 1880
50
Lompoc ........................... 1881
50
Santa Maria ............ 1882
7'l
Orland ........................... 1882
50
Fort Bidwell .................. 1882
50
Galt . . .................._............ 1883
50
Berkeley ...................... 1883
80
Tulare ............................... 1883
50
Stony Ford .................... 1884
75
Pasadena ........................... 1884
75
Com pron ....................... 1884 125
Arroyo Grande ...... 1884
50
Oakdale .......................... 1884
50
Selma ...................... 1885
80
Los Angeles ···---·--- 1885
75
Hanford ......................... 1885
50
Madera ........................... 1885
50
Anderson ......................... 1886
50
Middletown
1887
50
National City ........ 1887
75
San Miguel ············ 1887
50
Paso Robles ............ 1887
75
50
Bishop ·-················· 1887
Maxwell •............... 1888
75'
Elsinore ............................. 1888
75
Los Angeles
1888
75
Santa Paula ............ 1888
50
Los Gatos ......................... 1888
50
Oranie .................. 1889
75
Kings urg .............. 1889
'lO
Guerneville
1889
50
San Diego .............. 1889
80
50
Dunsmuir ......·-····· 1889
Santa Clara .................. 1890
75
Redlands ............................ 1890
75
Ontario ............................... 1890
50
Kings' City .. ..................... 1890
75
Porterville ........................ 1890
50
Reedley ................................... 1891 . 75
Azusa .................................... 1891
75
Colton .. .................................... 1891
55
Santa Monica ·-····· 1891
80
Monrovia ......................... 1891
75
Delano ............................... 1892
100
Mount Shasta ............... 1892
50
Los Banos ............................ 1892
75
Tehachapi .............. 1892
75
Corona .................. 1893
50
Norwalk .............................. 1893
75
Santer .................... 1893
75
Fall rook ................ 1893
55
Biggs -------·-············ 1893
50
Los Angeles .. ................. 1894
75
Los Angeles .. ................. 1894
75
Pleasanton ............................ 1894
50
Alhambra ............................ 1894
75
Whittier ........................... 1895
75'

Fees

Dues

12
15'.00 12
12
1.00 12
12
2.00 9
5.00 9
5.00
9
9
5.00
12
1.00 9
12
12
6.00 12
1.00 9
12.00 12
12
12
3.00 12
12
5.00 9
1.00 9
10.00 12
3.00 12

10.00
1.00

10.00

2.00
1.00
2.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00

Members

598
488
81
172
331
153
53
71
559
271
34
517
483
127
158
197
515
197
229
71
58
346
54
216
15 170
62
12
12 155
9 849
15 307
12 263
12 233
10 136
12 119
12 1045
12 281
9 299
10 414
9 320
15 142
12 443
12 154
12 218
9 250
12 354
12 275'
12 214
9 106
12 135
9 186
12 177
9 214
12 277
9 108
77
9
9 1108
9 668
9 127
9 588
9 601

440

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

441

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod;a

No.

Location

Charter

luued

Fees

Aflil.
MemFees Dues bers

234 Corona ·-····-··············-324 Pasadena ................ 1895
100
12 482
235 Consuelo .................••...325 Escondido .............• 1895
50
9 216
236 Needles ·······-···············326 Needles .................• 1896
75
1.00 12 343
237 Long Beach ·······-······--327 Long Beach ·-········· 1896 100 25.00
9 570
238 Redondo ···-----······-··-328 Redondo ................ 1897
100
12 41-4
239 Vallee de France .......... 329 Los Angeles ·-······· 1897
100 12.00 12 117
125
240 Kilauea ·-·······-···-········-330 Hilo, T. H ............. 1897
12 241
Pacific Grove
1897
241 Pacific Grove --·········-H l
75
9 208
San Pedro .............. 1897
242 San Pedro ····-·······-···--332
80 25.00 12 517
53
5.00
9
243 Alta ·-··-·········-·······---333
Bridgeport ·········-··· 1897
75
244 Covina -·····-··············--334 Covina .................... 1898
50
9 293
Los Angeles .......... 1899 125
245 West Gate ----·······--335
15 954
246 Fruitvale -·--······-·····336 Oakland ................ 1899
75 10.00 12 904
247 Carquinez ·-··-·············-337 Crockett ···········-··· 1899
S'O
9 188
248 San Jacinto --············--338
50
9
96
San Jacinto ···-······· 1899
249 Fullerton ·---····------l39 Fullerton -··--·---1900
50
12 380
Oxnard .................• 1901
2 50 Oxnard --·····-············-341
75
1.00 12 353
251 San Fernando •............. 343
75
San Fernando ·····-··1902
9 443
1902 100 10.00 12 543
252 Starr King ·--········-·····344 San Francisco
253 Brentwood -···········-·····3·45 Brentwood ·········-··· 1902
50
12 120
254 Palo Alto -····-···········--346 Palo Alto .............. 1902 100
5.00
9 621
Richmond .............. 1902
255 McKinley --············--347
7S'
9 451
256 San Bernardino ·-·········348 San Bernardino ...... 1902
75 10.00
9 667
257 Sequoia ·-········-···········349 Oakland ................ 1902
1.00 12 1020
75
Los Angeles
1903
2 58 Palestine ·····-·-···········-·3 51
100 10.00 12 581
Los
Angeles
..........
1903
259 Sunset -·········-··········-352
7S'
15 406
260 Pinole --·············-···---353
75 25.00 12 171
Pinole ·············-····· 1903
261 Presidio -····················354 San Francisco ........ 1903
100 20.00 12 542
262 Hollywood ....................355 Hollywood ............ 1903
100 10.00 12 1083
263 Mill Valley -··············--356 Mill Valley -········---1903
80
15 395
264 Buena Park ···-··-----357 Buena Park ............ 1903
30
9 187
265 Golden State ·-··········-·358 Los Angeles .......... 1904
75
12 883
266 Loyalton -···-··············3 59 Loyalton ·-············· 1904
S'O
9
80
267 San Francisco - .............360
190-4 100
San Francisco
12 313
Fort Bragg .............. 1904
268 Fort Bragg ····-···-······--361
50
5.00
9 123
269 Charity -·······················362 Campbell ................ 1904
50
9 135
270 Berkeley --·······-------363
7S'
5.00 12 648
Berkeley ·-········-··· 1904
271 Willits -·····-·······--·····365 Willits ·············-····· 1905
1.00 12 142
50
272 Las Palmas ·-····-···-·····366 Fresno ·-················· 1905
80
5.00
9 893
273 South Pasadena ........•...367
South Pasadena ...... 1905
75 10.00 12 559
274 Unity -----·--~........•368
Glendale ................ 1905 100
12 577
275 Ocean Park -··-·········369 Ocean Park ............ 1905
80
12 463
276 Amity --·--····-----·---370 San Francisco ........ 1905
100 25.00 12 467
277 Le Progres de l'Oceanie 371
Honolulu, T. H .•... 1905
125 10.00 12 608
278 Gardena ····· - -·····-····372 Gardena ................ 1906
80
S'.00
9 278
279 West Los Angeles -······373
Los Angeles
1906
75
3.00 12 369
280 Jewel ·····-·-·········---374 San Francisco ........ 1906 100 10.00 12 167
281 Richmond ·-···········---375
San Francisco ........ 1906
100 25.00 12 HS
282 Francis Drake ·······-··-376 So. San Francisco .. 1906 100
5.00 12 294
283 Artesia ·-·····················377 Artesia .................... 1906
50
9 136
284 Mizpah ·-·-·-·················378 Los Angeles ·····-··· 1906
100 25.00 12 433
285 Fillmore ···-··---~---·-·····379 Fillmore ·········--····· 1906
50
1.00 15 218
286 Huntington Beach .... _..380 Huntington Beach.. 1906
50
12 295
287 Oceanside ---·······-····-381
Oceanside ..........•... 1906
75
5.00
9 266
288 Highland Park ..............382 Los Angeles .......... 1907
75
12 557
Orosi ...................... 1907
289 Orosi --·-···················-383
50
15 126
290 El Centro ·-·········-··-··-384 El Centro .............. 1907
75
12 363
291 Dinuba ···············-·---385 Dinuba .................. 1907
50
9 259
292 Coalinga ··-·---···-·--387 Coalinga ·-············· 1907
100
12 318

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod;e

No.

Charter

luued

Fees

San Francisco
1907
Long Beach ...........• 1907
Imperial ................ 1908
Tuolumne ·-··········· 1908
Los Angeles
1908
San Francisco ......•. 1908
Los Angeles .......... 1908
Turlock ···········-····· 1908
Alameda ................ 1908
Huntington Park.. 1908
San Jose ................ 1908
Burlingame ............ 1908
Oakland ......•......... 1909
Brawley .................. 1909
Oakland ................ 1909
Glendora ................ 1909
Los Angeles .......... 1909
Burbank ................ 1909
La Mesa·-··············· 1910
Sierra Madre .......... 1910
Honolulu, T. H ..... 1910
Berkeley ................ 1910
Perris ·········-·-······ 1910
Calexico ................ 1910
Los Angeles ............ 1910
Los Angeles ............ 1910
Lindsay .................. 1910
Clovis .................... 1910
Los Angeles ···-····· 1910
Upland ·············-··· 1911
Kerman .................. 1911
Inglewood .............. 1911
Eagle Rock ............ 1911
Los Angeles ............ 1912
Exeter .................... 1912
Holtville ·····-········· 1912
Taft ........................ 1912
Chino ·-··········-····· 1912
San Dimas .............. 1912
Pittsburg ................ 1912
McCloud ................ 1912
Richmond .............. 1912
Hammonton •......... 1913
Maricopa ................ 1913
San Francisco ·-····· 1913
Claremont .............. 1913
Lancaster ................ 1913
Los Angeles .......... 1913
Manteca ................ 1913
Oakland ·····-········· 1914
Coronado ·-··········· 1914
San Diego .............. 1914
Schofield
Barracks, T. H ... 1914
346 Carpinteria .•................4-4-4 Carpinteria ............ 1914
1914
347 Wilshire ·······-····-····---«f Los Angeles
348 La Puente ·············-----446 Puente ·-················· 1914
349 Torrance -·········------447 Torrance ···········-··· 191-4
3 50 Mt. Diablo .....................448 . Concord -·············· 1914

100
125
7S'
50
100
100
100
80
75
100
. 100
100

293 Parnassus ·-····--·-·-·····-388
294 Palos Verdes ·········-··--389
295 Imperial ---·-··-·······--390
296 East Belt -········;··-···-391
297 West Lake --····-······---392
298 Balder ············-····-··-393
299 University ·-······-···---394
300 Turlock ·-··--···-······-395'
.301 Apollo ······-·············--·396
302 Rising Light ·······-··---397
303 Fraternity ·······-····-·-399
304 Burlingame -··········-···400
305 Bay View·-····-·············--401
306 Brawley ····-········-··---402
307 Yerba Buena -········--403
308 Glendora ·-···-··-·········404
309 Moneta -·····-···-·········405
310 Burbank -··-·····-···-·-··406
311 La Mesa ···--····-·-·-···-407
312 Sierra Madre ·····-······;..408
313 Honolulu -···········-·····--409
314 Charter Rock ············--410
315 Perris --··-·-····-··---411
316 Calexico ·········-··-···-'·412
317 Arlington -···-······-······414
318 Silver Trowel -····-···---415
319 Lindsay -·---····-·-··----416
320 Clovis -··················..:.....417
321 Elysian -·····-···-······----418
322 Upland -·······-··----419
323 Kerman --·-···-··--·-420
324 Inglewood ········-····--421
325 Eagle Rock ·-····-···---422
326 York - ..---·-···--··-423
327 Exeter •..:.•..·-·-·····-····--424
328 Holtville ··········-··-···425
329 Midway -·····-··-·----426
330 Chino Valley ·-·-------.427
3 31 San Dimas ···--····----428
332 Pittsburg ---·-·-·----429
3 33 McCloud --·-····----430
334 Alpha -·-·-----431
335 Hammonton ·-····-·······433
336 Maricopa -·--········--434
337 Fairmount -·····-····----435'
338 Claremone ··············-··-436
339 Lancaster -···--·--···---437
340 Acacia -·-··········-····-438
341 Tyrian -··--······-----439
342 Standard ·······-············-440
343 Coronado ········--····---441
344 Blackmer ·-····-···-··--442
345 Schofield -···-···············443 ·

Location

75
75
80
50
105
100
100
75
125
75
50
50
75
75
50
75
75
50
75
125
100
75
50
75
50
50
S'S'
75
50
75
50
50
100
50
60
75
50
75
75
80
100
50
125
50

80
7f

Aflil.
Mem·
F..1 Dues ben

10.00
10.00
5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00
1.00
S'.00
5.00

25.00
5.00
3.00

10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00
5.00

25.00
3.00
25.00
25.00

1.00

6.00
10.00

5.00

25.00
1.00

12 702
9 722
12 110
9
80
9 990
12 482
12 598
U' 308
12 444
12 911
9 435
18 573
12 529
15 174
12 765
12 131
12 743
12 573
12 418
12 105
12 328
12 360
9 141
12 160
9 380
12 363
12 207
9 352
10 476
9 178
82
9
12 626
12 440
9 310
10 190
12 121
12 463
9 108
12 162
12 249
9 105
9 473
62
9
9 178
12 486
9 108
12 21-4
58
12
12 146
12 357
9 327
9 1088
12
12
12
10
lf
12

244
111
538
121
341
257

442

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
lodge

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

443

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

F"'

Affll.
Mern.
Fees Dues be rs

3'jl Park .............................. 449
San Francisco ........ 1914
7,- 10.00 12 472
3"2 Van Nuys ······-···········-4,-0
Van Nuys .............. 1914
so
9 Ho
3"3 Montebello ·······-·········451
Montebello ............ 1914
100 10.00 12 461
3 'i 4 San Pasqual ................. .4f2
7,Pasadena ·······-······· 1914
12 41S
3'j'j Bethlehem ....................4H
San Francisco ........ 191 'j
100
12 309
356 Crocker ........................4f4
Daly City
191 'j
7f 10.00 12 366
357 Golden West ................4'jf
San Francisco ........ 191 'j
7,- 10.00 12 ,-47
3'il! Ramona ..........:.............4f7
Monterey Park ...... 19 H
7,12 440
H9 Henry S. 0r!l)e............4'jS
Los Angeles .......... l 9lf
7f
12 651
360 Riverbank ···········-····---·4"9
Riverbank .............. 19 H
rn
12 123
361 Mount Oso ·············---.460
Tracy ...................... 1916
so 6.00 12 267
362 Argonaut ...................... 461
San Francisco ........ 1916
so 10.00 12 415
363 Paul Revere ············----.462
San Francisco
1916
100 10.00 12 "34
364 Morgan Hill ................463
Morgan Hill .......... 1916
rn 1.00 9 135
36'j Alta Vista ....................464
San Francisco ........ 1916
7,12 273
366 Center ······················--.46'j
Fresno .................... 1916
so
9 467
367 Libertas ........................466
Bakersfield .............. 191 7 100
12 497
36S Culver City .................. 467
Culver City ............ 1917
100
12 299
369 Rockridge ·············-····-46S
Oakland ................ 1917
7,'j,00 12 437
370 Yorba Linda ·····--·······469
Yorba Linda .......... 191S
rn
12 134
371 Lincoln ···············-·····---470
San Francisco ........ 191S
100 10.00 H
332
372 Delta •........................... 471
so
Stockton ·····-········· 191S
12 440
373 Maui •........................... 472
Kahului, T . H ......... 191S
S'j
12 2"7
374 Blythe ···················-·····--473
Blythe .................... 1919
7f
mo
9 119
375 Victory ·······-··············.474
San Francisco ........ 1919
75 2f.OO 12 2Sl
376 America ........................47'j
Los Angeles .......... 1920
7,- 2mo 12 4SS
3 77 Coachella ···············-···--476
Coachella ................ 1920
7,12 163
37S Temblor ........................ 477
Fellows .................. 1920
rn
H
144
379 Thousand Oaks ........... .47S
Berkeley ................ 1920
75
mo 1,- 44'j
3SO Golden Rule ·······-····--.479
San Jose .................. 1920
7f
9 HO
3Sl Fellowship ·······-··········.4SO
75
1.00 12 301
Oakland ·······-······· 1920
3S2 Mt. Davidson ............•.4Sl
San Francisco ........ 1920
100 10.00 lS 373
3S3 Clarence F. Smith ........ 4S2
Los Angeles .......... 1920
7,9 361
3S4 Bell ·-·········-···-··········--.4S3
Bell ........................ 1920
7,12 "42
3S5 Albert Pike ..................4S4
Los Angeles .......... 1920
7,12 2'j6
3S6 Chowchilla •...................4S'j
Chowchilla ............ 1920
100
5.00 12 123
3S7 Caledonia ·············-······.4S6
Bakersfield .............. 1920
100
12 430
3SS Vallejo ··················-···--4S7
Vallejo .................. 1920
7,- 10.00
9 37S
3S9 Patterson ......................4SS
Patterson ................ 1920
rn 2.00 12 93
390 East Bay ........................4S9
South Berkeley ...... 1920
10.00 12 372
391 Corcoran ...................... 490
Corcoran ................ 1920
7'J
12 114
392 Woodstock ....................491
Alameda ................ 1920
7,1.00 12 342
393 Garvanza ·-················--.492
Los Angeles .......... 1920
12 266
394 Atascadero ·········-········.493
Atascadero ............ 1920
7,12 100
39'j Acorn ............................ 494
Oakland ................ 1920
so 10.00 12 ns
396 Lebanon ........................495
San Francisco ........ 1921
100 10.00 l 'j 376
397 Fremont ........................ 497
Oakland ................ 1921
100 10.00 12 4'j7
39S Stockton ·················-··--.49S
Stockton ................ 1921
so
12 1S4
399 Capital City ···········-····.499
Sacramento
1921
7,- 10.00
9 395
400 Roosevelt ·······-·············mo
San Francisco --····· 1921
'j.00 12 179
401 Westwood ................... 501
Westwood .............. 1921
rn 10.00 9 2H
402 Harbor .......................... rn2
Richmond .............. 1921
9 473
403 Point ..........................303
Richmond .............. 1921
7,9 22'j
404 Seaside ·················-······· ,-04
Long Beach ............ 1921
100
10 474
40'j Silver Cord ................ 30'j
Santa Ana .............. 1921
7,1.00 12 4"2
406 Mount Olive ............... 506
Los Angeles ............ 1921
12'j H.00
9 993
407 El Segundo .................. ,-07
El Segundo ............ 1921
rn
9 267
40S Joppa ............................ rns
San Joaquin .......... 1921
rn
mo
9
66
409 Benjamin Franklin ........ f09
Los Angeles .•.......• 1921
100
12 33'i

,,.
,,.

,,.
,,.

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
lodge

No.

410 Cupertino ····-·············--HO
411 Sunnyvale ---················511
412 Palms ............................ ,-12
413 Cahuenga ...................... ,.13
414 Argonne ........................ H4
415 Vermont Square .......... fl f
416 Taft .............................. f16
417 Mount Vernon ............ fl7
41S La Jolla ···-···--············--flS
419 Euclid ·-······-··-·········-"19
420 Ionic ···--·-·····-·············no
421 Piedmont -····················f21
422 Sunrise ·-····-·················f22
423 Bellflower ...................... "23
4 24 Catalina Island ..........3 24
42'j George Washington ....S'H
426 Bay City ........................ f26
427 Covenant ...................... 527
42S Beverly Hills ................ ns
429 Loyalty ........................ ..529
430 Sun Garden .................. BO
431 Alexandria .................... Bl
432 Smyrna ·············-·········B2
433 Azure ·······-···················f33
434 Forest Hill ................... 534
43" Alexander Hamilton ....53"
436 Seal Rock ...................... 536
437 Utopia .......................... 537
43S Ascot ···················-·······53S
439 Belvedere ..................... 539
440 Queen Beach ................ HO
441 Henry Morse Stephens Hl
442 Lankershim .................. ,-42
443 Signal ............................ H3
444 Glendale ........................ 'j 44
445 Jonathan ...................... H'j
446 San Gabriel ................. 546
447 Arcadia ·······-·············--H7
44S Triangle ........................ HS
449 Justice ........................349
4rn Seaport·-······················-""°
451 Lakeshore ...................... Hl
4f2 Semper Virens .............. H2
453 Educator ·················-··-H4
4'j4 White Pine .................. 5H
4H Fairfax .......................... H6
4'j6 Hermosa ...................... H7
457 Point Firmin ·-·············HS
4'jS Craftsmen .................... H9
4'j9 Plymouth .................... ..560
460 East San Diego •........... "61
461 Pyramid ....................... 562
462 South Park .................. ,-63
463 Foothill ........................ ,-64
464 West Adams ................565
465 James A. Garfield ........ ,-66
466 Searchlight ................ ..567
467 Park Boulevard ............ ,.6S
46S Chateau Thierry ..........569

Location

Charter
Issued

Cupertino .............. 1921
Sunnyvale .............. 1921
Palms ·········-··········· 1921
Los Angeles ............ 1921
San Francisco ........ 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Taft ........................ 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
La Jolla .................. 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Piedmont ................ 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Bellflower .............. 1922
Avalon .................. 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
Los Angeles •......... 1922
Beverly Hills ·····-··· 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Fresno .................... 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
Cleres ·····-··············· 192 2
Fullerton ................ 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Monterey Park ...... 1922
Long Beach ·-········· 1923
Berkeley_ ................ 1923
North Hollywood .. 1923
Long Beach ............ 1923
Glendale ................ 1923
San Francisco
1923
San Gabriel ............ 1923
Arcadia .................. 1923
Venice .................... 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Oakland ................ 1923
Eureka ·······-··········· 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Weed .................... 1923
San Anselmo .......... 1923
Hermosa Beach ...... 1923
San Pedro .............. 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Oakland ................ 1923
East San Diego ...... 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Oakland ................ 1923
Los Angeles ·-······· 1923
Los Angeles ·-······· 1923
Long Beach •........... 1923
Oakland ................ 1923
Oakland ................ 1923

Affll.

FHS

7f
7f
12'j
100
100
7,-

Fees

mo
mo
f .00

rn

so
so
7f
100

so

,,.

10.00
1.00
'j.00

100

100
100
100
100

,,.
,,.so

10.00
'j.00

12'j

'j.00

70

rn

so

'f5
100
100
100
75

so

75
12'j
100
100
100
75
7f
7f
100
100

,,.

10.00
1.00
10.00

5.00
mo
'j.00

10.00
25.00
mo

'jQ

so

H
100
75

'J.00

2.00

so

,,.,,.

100
90

100

so

mo
10.00
2mo
mo

100
100

30.00

7,7f

mo

so

Dues

9
9
9
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
10
9
12
12
12
9
12
12
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
12
12
H
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
12
10
12
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12

Mern·
be rs

143
272
374
473
374
496
298
221
239
371
643
251
304
317
136
428
324
328
402
402
476
HO
S7
227

lH
211
164
687
324
223
177
327
'jSl
433
'jSS
179
330
293
227
334
220

2rn

209
33"
92
2'j9
2S2
361
414
339
644
260
40S
539
294
206
464
3"4
316

H4

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
LodCJe

No.

469 Military Service --·--------- 570
470 Francis K. Shattuck ______ 571
471 James Madison -·--··--------572
472 Hillcrest -----------------------573
473 S. W. Hackett ---·------··--574
474 Fort Crook ---·-·--·----------575
475' El Cajon Valley ------------576
476 Sunnyside -----------------·-·577
477 Progressive -----------·--·--578
478 Warren G. Harding...... 579
479 Santa Maria ----------·------580
480 Security ·-----------------------581
481 Rialto ·----·-·----·-------------5 82
482 Wasco -----·---·---·---------·-783
483 Harding ·--------------------584
484 Manchester ----------------585
48 5 Garden Grove -------~-----· 586
486 Valley Forge ----------------587
487 El Sereno --·---------·-·------588
488 Yauai ·------·----------------589
489 Compass ------------------------590
490 Escalon ----··--·--------------· 591
491 Tujunga ··--·---·-··-----------592
492 All States -----------------593
49 3 Service ---------------·---------- 594
494 Alexander Graham Bell 595
495 Guardian ------·-·-···---------596
496 Pearl Harbor ----·----·------798
497 Carmelita ·--·---·-------------·'99
498 Lynwood ---·-------·----------600
499 Grizzly -··-----------------601
500 Melrose -------------------602
501 Dimond ----------------------603
502 Jubilee ·------·---·----------··--604
503 Glassell Park ---------------605
504 Sojourner ·--------------------607
505 Granada ·-·-·--------------··-·608
506 Provident --·--------------609
507 Elmhurst -·----------610
508 Canoga -----------------611
509 Temple City -----·-----------612
no Three Pillars --------------613
n 1 Larchmont -·--·-·-----------614
n2 Hemet ·-·--·---------·------615
513 R. E. Dolley ------------··---616
n4 Big Bear ----··-----·-··--··---617
n 5 Southland --·---·------·-------618
n6 Neptune ··-·---·-··----------619
517 Point Loma -----------------620
518 The Gardens ---------------621
519 Atwater --··--------·-----·-----622
520 Menorah ·--·----·------------623
521 Fortitude --·-----------------624
522 Angeles Mesa -·-----·-----62'
523 Chula Vista -----------------626
524 Lamanda Park -------------627
52 5 Truth ··------------------------628
526 Fairview --·---·----------------629
527 Ingleside -------··---····----630

Duu

ban
Mem-

No.

12
9
12
12
9
5.00 12
12
20.00 12
15.00
9
9
12
12
5.00
9
12
5.00 12
20.00 12
25.00 12
12.50
9
12
10.00 12
2.00 12
12
12
9
9
5.00 12
12
15.00 12
12
12
10.00
9
10.00 12
5.00 12
1.00 12
9
12
10
10.00
9
1.00 12
1.00
9
12
10.00
9
mo 18
9
12
12
5.00 12
9
mo 12
9
12
12
5.00 12
10
1.00 10
12
1.00 12
3.00 12
12

324
253
313
68
497
136
186
435
435
406
104
354
131
239
227
343
180
344
367
126
212
115
232
491
605
255
658
n4
289
324
145
215
267
309
377
163
631
359
207
195
311
344
356
140
175'
121
275
236
426
363
340
647
179
556
289
208
241
234
155

528 Benevolence ··-----·----·----631
529 Normal Heights ..........63 2
530 Poinsettia --,------633
531 Victorville --·------·-·--634
532 Riverside -----------·--·---635
533 John, Marshall ---·---------636
534 Palisades ----·-----··-·---637
535 Indian Rock ---·-···-·---638
536 Composite ---·-···-----639
537 Veritas ·-·---·---·-··----640
538 James A. Foshay ---------641
539 La Cumbre -·-··-----··----642
HO Alta Loma ···--·-···---··---643
541 Lomita -----------···---644
H2 A. F. E. Irwin ---·-··---645
543 Metropolitan --·--····---646
H4 Hawthorne -···--···--647
H5 Damascus -·------------648
H6 Florence ·----····----------649
H7 La Brea ---··---··---------650
HS Menlo Park -------------6H
H9 Crescenta Valley ----···---652
HO Fontana -·---····-·-653
Hl Jordan
_____ 654
552 Monte Vista -·-····------6H
H3 Citro! ------··--------------656
554 John D. Spreckels ....•...657
555 Livingston ·-·····------------65'8
556 La Habra ·-·--···----------·-65'9
557 .. Baldwin Park ··----·--··--·660
558 Malta -·---·····--····---661
5 59 Henry Knox ·--------------662
560 Ojai --·-···---·-·-····-····-·--663
561 Kaweah ···-·---·--··---·---665'
562 Reseda -····--·--·--··-·-··---666
5'63 Meridian -·-···--·-····--····667
564 San Gorgonio -----·····-··668
565 John P. Jarman -··-···---669
566 Greenleaf ····------·-··-··-··-670
567 San Clemente ..............671
5'68 Laguna Beach -·-···------672
5'69 Far West --··--·--------673
5'70 Los Cerritos -·--··-··--···-674
5'71 Modesto ···-·-·········---67J
5'72 Willow Glen ·-·--···-··-···-676
5'73 Liberal Arts ·······--··-····677
5'74 Altadena ---·-··--·-·-··.678
5'.75' Canby Cross --·---··-····-···679
576 Carmel --·-·······-···-····-680
577 Dos Palos ·····---····-···--·-681
5'78 Barstow ·------·---···-·---··--682
5'79 Redwood Empire -····--683
580 Trona -··-·-·--······--684
581 San Marino ----·-··--·····685
5'82 Albany -··----···-·-·-·686
j83 Vista ·····--------687
584 Oildale ·····-·---·--··--·····-688
585 Pohona --·······---·····--·689
586 San Carlos ···········-·······690

Charter
luued

Fee1

FM1

San Francisco
1923
Berkeley --······-··-·--- 1923
Los Angeles ---------- 1923
Berkeley ----·-----·-·--- 1923
San Diego ----·--------· 1923
Fall River Mills...... 1923
El Cajon ---··---·--·---- 1923
Los Angeles
1923
Los Angeles ·--·---·- 1923
North Sacramento.. 1924
Ramona --------------·-- 1924
Bakersfield ---·--·---·--- 1924
Rialto -------··---·--·--· 1924
Wasco -·----------··------ 1924
Los Angeles .......... 1924
Los Angeles -·--··-·-· 1924
Garden Grove -------- 1924
Los Angeles ------·--- 1924
Los Angeles ··---··-·- 1924
Lihue, T. H. -·-·----·- 1924
Pomona --·-----····----·- 1924
Escalon .................. 1924
Tujunga -·-·-·-·-·-·---- 1924
Long Beach ·--------·-- 1924
Long Beach------------ 1924
Los Angeles ---------- 1924
South Gate
1924
Honolulu, T. H. --·- 1924
Pasadena -·-·-·--··------ 1924
Lynwood -------·-------- 1925
Portola .................. 1925
Los Angeles -----··--- 1925
Oakland --·-·--·---··--· 1925
Santa Ana ---·-·-----·-- 192 5
Los Angeles
1925
Monrovia-·--·-------··- 1925
Alhambra -·-·-··------· 1925
Sacramento ............ 1925
Oakland -----·-··------- 1925
Canoga Park ---·-·---- 192 5
Temple ------------------ 1925
Sacramento ·----··---·- 1925
Los Angeles
1925
Hemet -----------··------- 192 5
Seal Beach
1925
Big Bear Lake ........ 1925
Los Angeles
1925
Long Beach ------------ 1925
San Diego ·----··-----·· 1925
Los Angeles ·-·--·---- 1925
Los Angeles
1925
Los Angeles ------·-·· 1925
Oakland ·-----·-·-·---- 192 5
Los Angeles
1825
Chula Vista ·--------·-- 1925
Pasadena ---·-·---------- 1925
Los Angeles -··--·-·-- 1924
Los Angeles ···-·---- 1926
San Francisco --·---· 1926

100
75
75
75
80
75
75
125
75
75
80
100
75'
80
75
125
50
100
75
75'
70
50
75'
100
75'
75
100
150
75
125
50
75'
100
75'

10.00
5.00

Location

445

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

77
75
75'
75
80
50
75
75
100
50
75
75
100
90
75

77
75
125
75
100
71
75
76
80

77

Affil.

Charter
luued

Fees

Affll.
Mam·
Fees Dues &ers

Los Angeles
1926
San Diego -·---··-·--··· 1926
San Buenaventura .. 1926
Victorville ·····-·-----·- 1926
Riverside ---·----·--···-· 1926
Beverly Hills ···----·-· 1926
Santa Monica ---··-·· 1926
Berkeley --·-------····-· 1926
Los Angeles ··-----·-- 1926
San Francisco :....... 1926
Los Angeles --·---·--- 1926
Santa Barbara ··------ 1926
Signal Hill ····------· 1926
Torrance ···----···----· 1926
San Pedro --·-·---··---- 1926
Los Angeles ···----··- 1926
Hawthorne ----····· 1926
San Bernardino ··--·· 1926
Los Angeles ·-----··· 1927
Los Angeles ··-----·· 1927
Palo Alto ···------···-- 1827
Montrose ··----·---··--·- 1927
Fontana ·-·-·---·······-·· 1927
Los Angeles
1927
Long Beach ·-·----··--- 1927
Brea ·--·----······--·-·-··-- 1927
San Diego --···--···--·- 1927
Livingston ·-····-··-----1927
La Habra--···-----···-·· 1927
Baldwin Park ···-···- 1927
Los Angeles ·-·-···-·- 1928
Los Angeles ---------· 1928
Ojai ··-·-·-·-·--······-·-··· 1928
Woodlake ·--·------·--- 1928
Reseda --··-·------·-·---- 1928
Glendale -------·-------- 1928
Banning --·----··-----·-· 1928
San Jose -----·--··---- 1928
Whittier ···-·-···--·-··· 1928
San Clemente
1928
Laguna Beach ......,. 1929
San Francisco
1929
Long Beach····------·· 1929
Modesto ··----·-·······- 1929
Willow Glen ··-·--·--· 1930
Los Angeles --·-··---· 1930
Altadena ·-------···---· 1930
Tulelake -····----·---·-· 1935
Carmel ··----------·-·----- 1935
Dos Palos ---·-------··- 1939
Barstow -···-··---·---···· 1940
Garberville ·---·-···--· 1940
Trona ··--··-------···--· 1941
South Pasadena .... 1944
Albany ------····--·----- 1945
Vista --··········---··----1945
Bakersfield
1946
Yosemite Valley ·--- 1946
Redwood City ........ 1946

100
80
75
55
75
75'
80
75'
125
100
100
75
75
80
80
75
75'
75'
125
75'
75'
75'
55
75'
75
50
80
50
50
50
75'
125
50
75'
75'
100
50
75'
75
75
75
75
125
75
75'
125
75
50
75
50
H
50
75'
100
75
50
100
50
100

12
9
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
9
9
15
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
15
12
12
9
12
15
12
9
12
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
15
12
12
12
9
18

Location

5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00

5.00
5.00
5'.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
1.00

25.00

1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

5.00
1.00
3.00

10.00
1.00
25.00
10.00

270
476

no

166
316
246
332
192
310
113
206
199
323
224
242
111
264
456
438
261
170
302
237
299
501
163
Hl
97
152
115
199
409
87
93
208
388
195
205
378
5'7
166
265
244
353
234
236
349
111
123
90
210
58
118
268
125'
175
98
51
139

446

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXTINCT LODGES

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
lod9e

No.

Charter
Issued

Fees

Fees Dues be rs
Affil.
Mem·

587 Indian Wells Valley .... 691
588 Travelers ·············-·······692
589 Palm Springs ................ 693
590 San Antonio ................694
591 Meudell ···-···················69f
592 Crossroads ....................696
593 St. Elmo ···················-···697
594 Wm. D. Stephens ........698

lnyokern ·······--------- 1946
Sacramento
1947
Palm 8&rings ........ 1947
South ate ............ 1947
Bakersfield .............. 1948
San Diego .............. 1948
Oakland .................. 1948
Los Angeles............ 1948

100
75
100
100
100
80
100
125

5.00
10.00
15.00

location

10.00

447

12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12

4
4
6
7

129
61
55
45

37
27
23
24

7
9

11

Total membership, July 31, 1948 ................ 183,198
15

26
28
29
31
34
36
37
39
47
48
49
52
53
54
62

r

63
67
69
69

71
72
73
74
75
77

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never
issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt.
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
St. John's Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, Dec. 8, 1824.
Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.
1864.
Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
Corinthan, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley, Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never
issued.
Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.

448

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No.115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.
13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as P·a lmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19,
1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.
.
109 Dibble Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zi~n, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11,
1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor 1 Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,
1936.
121 Ionic Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progi-ess San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity
Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosex:iite Coultervillet.1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
known 'as Yosemite .No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colus~, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1865.

s:m

151
152
153
154
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170
171
172

175
176
177
180
182
185
189
197
205
213
218
222
223
226
227
238
239
240

449

Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 10, 1862.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Ne-:.
vada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865. ·
Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Eshcurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
.
Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
J·a n. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
issued.
Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation gl'anted July 30, 1870. Charter never
issued.
Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
Pescadero, Pescadera, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.

450

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
249
251
252
257

263
270
276
284
298
311
340
342
350
364
371
372
386
398
413
432
438
456
496
553
597
611
612
616
628
664

Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.
Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1918.
Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881.
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11,
1911.
Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,
1902.
Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 18,
1925.
Riverdale, Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554,
Feb. 16, 1940.
Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to_Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.
Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,
1929.
Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
·
Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,
1937.

451

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Us Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850
1850
Jonathan D. Stevenson ..G. M.
California No. I
Born Jan. I, 1800
Died F.b. 14, 1894

John A. Tutt.............. D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner............S. G. W.
Sashel Woods............J. G. W.
Levi Stowell ......................6. T.
John H. 6ihon................G. S.

1851
John A. Tutt..................6. M.
Tehama No. 3
lorn F.b. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900

Benj. D. Hyam .......... D. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis................ S. G. W.
Benj. S. Olds..............J. G. W.
Townsend A. Thomas ...... G. T.
Levi StowelL................... 6. S.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam ........6. M.
Benicia No. 5
lorn March 1, 1813
Died July 12, 1893

Chas. M. Radcliff... ... D. G. M.
Addison Martin ................6.T.
J. R. McConnelL ..... J. G. W.
Addison Mertin ............- .. 6. T.
Levi StowelL...................6. S.

1853
Charles M. Radcliff...... G. M.
Tuolumne No. 8
lorn F.b. 5, 1818
Died Dec. 31, 1889

T. A. Thomas.............. D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall... .....S. G. W.
Richard F. Knott........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ....... _..... 6. T.
Levi StowelL..- ...............6. S.

1854
William H. Howard ...... G. M.
San Jose No. 10
Born Au9. 29, 1810
Died Sept. 18, 1866

Nath. G. Curtis........ D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole..........S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J. G. W.
Addison Martin .............. G. T.
Levi Stowell......................6. S.

1855
William H. Howard ...... G. M.
T. A. Thomas.............. D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ......S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..............6. T.
Levi StowelL...................6. S.

1856

1863

William H. Howard ......G. M. William C. Belcher........G. M.
John A. Raymond .... D. G. M. Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon .......- .....S. G. W. Louis Cohn................S. G. W.
Peter W. Randle ......J. G. W. Wm. A. Davies..........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..............G. T. James laidley..................6. T.
Alex G. AbelL ...............6. S. Alex G. AbelL ...............6. S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtis......G. M.
Washln9ton No. 20
Born Feb. 8, 1825
Died July 12, 18'7

Charles Marsh ............ D. G. M.
Aaron D. Park............S. G. W.
John B. Pope..............J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..............6. T.
Alex G. Abell
6. S.

1858
Nathaniel G. Curtis......G. M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Wm. McCormicL ...S. G. W.
Jas. W. BicknelL .....J. G. W.
Addison Martin ..............6. T.
Alex G. AbelL ............... 6. S.

1859
Nathaniel G. Curtis...... G. M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Ebenezer Lane..........S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hawley........J. G. W.
Addison Martin ···········--6· T.
Alex G. Abell... ............... 6. S.

1860
Nathaniel G. Curtis ...... 6. M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher........ S. G. W.
Alvinza Hayward ...... J. G. W.
Addison Martin···-·········&. T.
Alex G. AbelL............... G. S.

1861
James L English ............G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Bom June 5, 1813
Died May 29, 1889

Wm. C. Belcher........ D. G. M.
John W. Harville......S. G. W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W.
James laidley................6. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...............6. S.

1862
William C. Belcher........ G. M.
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. I, 1895

1864 .
William C. Belcher ........ G. M.
Gil. 8. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Davies..........S. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus............·..J. G. W.
James Laidley.................. 6. T.
Alex G. AbelL ...•.•.........6. S.

1865
Gilbert C. Claiborne.... G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908

Wm. A. Davies. ......... D. G. M.
Isaac S. Titus..............S. G. W.
Henry H. Hartley......J. G. W.
James laidley-................6. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...............6. S.

1866
Gilbert C. Claiborne.... G. M.
Henry H . Hartley...... D. G. M.
Wm. H. Peterson ......S. G. W.
Thomas BecL...........J. G. W.
James laidley..................G. T.
Alex G. AbelL ........•......G. S.

1867
William A. Davies..........6. M.
Columbia No. 28
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916

Henry H. Hartley.... D. G. M.
Thomas Beck..............S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt......J. G. W.
James A. Laidley............6. T.
Alex G. Abell..................6. S.

1868
Charles Marsh ................6. M.
Nevada No. 13
Born Dec. 6, 1825
Died April 28, 1876

Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M. Leonidas E. Pratt...... D. G. M.
John W. Harville......S. G. W. Theo. G. CockrilL ... S. G. W.
John B. Hewson ........J. G. W. Fredk. F. Barss.......... J. G. W.
James laidley..................G. T. James Laidley..................6. T.
Alex G. AbelL ...............6. S. Alex G. AbelL...............6. S.

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1869

1876

Leonidas E. Prett......_..G. M.
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born Aug. 29, 1133
Died Od. 25, 1886
Isaac S. Titu•···-----·-----D· G. M.
John S. Werd ........_..S. G. W.
Richard Dele..............J. G. W.
James Leidley......•.•......_.G, T.
Alex G. AbelL............_.G. S.

John M. Browne ............ G. M.
Chas. L Wiggin ____ D, G. M.
Wm. S. Wells ............S. G. W.
Solon W. Craigue ....J. G. W.
James Leidley........... ____..G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ............... G. S.

1870
Leonidas E. Prett............G. M.
Isaac S. Titus............ D. G. M.
Chu L. Wiggin. ____ S. G. W.
Benj. H. Freemen ...-.J· G. W.
James Leidley... _ ..... _.G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ... ____ G, S.

1871
Leonidas E. Pratt.._____ G. M.
Ches. L Wiggin ........ D. G. M.
Ben. H. Freemen ......S. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins........J. G. W.
James Leidley...........____ G. T.
Alex G. Abell.............- ...G. S.

1872
Leonidas E. Pratt..........G. M.
Benj. H. Freemen ...... D. G. M.
Geo. C. Perkins... _...S. G. W.
John M. Browne........J. G. W.
James Leidley.....-·-·····-G. T.
Alex G. Abell..______G. S.

1873
Isaac S. Titus..........._. __ G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born Od. 14, 1827
Died April 22, 1872
Geo. C. Perkins........ D. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne........S. G. W.
Chas. E. MitchelL...J. G. W.
James Leidley........•..... _..G. T.
Alex G. Abell...._.•..........G. S.

1874
George C. Perkins........ G. M.
Orovill• No. 103
Born Aug. 23, 1839
Died Nib. 26, 1923
John M. Browne........ D. G. M.
Wm. 8. Parker.....- ...S. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnin._ .......J. G. W.
James Leidley.·-·-······-·G. T.
Alex G. Abell.._.............•G. S.

1875
John M. Browne............G. M.
Naval No. 87
Born May 10, 1831
Died Dec. 7, 1874
Chas. L Wiggin ...... D. G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnin .......... S. G. W,
Jacob H. NefL .......J. G. W.
James Leidley_________ G. T.
Alex G. Abell .. ·-····-··-···G. S.

1877
John M. Browne............G. M.
Chas. L. Wiggin •..... D. G. M.
Wm. W. Traylor........S. G. W.
Wm. H. Crene ..........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ····-··---·G• T.
Alex G. Abell... .. _...........G. S.

1878
John M. Browne............ G. M.
Wm. W. Traylor. ____ D. G. M.
Wm. H. Crane ______ G. W.
Robt. C. Broder........J. G. W.
Moses Heller --········----G• T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

s.

1879
William W. Taylor........G. M.
California No. I
Born March 17, 1822
Dl•d Jan. 18, 1883
Samuel C. Denson .... D. G. M.
Clay W. Teylor._ ..... S. G. W.
John Q. Adems. _____J, G. W.
Moses Hellar _ _ _6, T.
Alex G. AbelL.__ ........... G. S.

1880
Samuel C. Denson ........G. M.
Union No. 58
Born S•pt. 23, 1837
Dl•d July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor........ D. G. M.
John Q. Adams ........S. G. W.
0. W. HollenbecL.J. G. W.
Moses Heller ···---·····-·G• T.
Alex G. AbelL--···-···-G• S.

1881
Clay W. Taylor.. ·--·······G. M.
West•rn Star No. 2
Born Sept, IOI 1844
Died May I, 877
John Q. Adama.. ....... D. 6. M.
Jonathan D. Hines....S. G. W.
Thos. J. Bowera...........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ····-·-··----G. T.
Alex G. AbelL._.............G. S.

1882
Clay W. Taylor.............. G. M.
Jonathan D. Hines.... D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
George Hinds...- .......J G. W.
Moses Heller ··- ·--·---·G• T.
Alex G. Abell... ...............6. S.

153

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1883
Jonathan D. Hines ...- ..G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin ........ D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson .. ___ s. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G. W.
Moses Heller ··-·-····--6. T.
Alex G. Abell... ........- ..-6. S.

1884
Jonathan D. Hines ...- ...G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnin._____ D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker.. ___J, G. W.
Moses Heller
T.
Alex G. Abell... ..- ......... _G, S.

------- 6.

1889

1895

Morris M. Eriee...- ......G. M.
William Johnston ....0. G. M.
Ches. R. Gritman ......S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........ J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. AbelL. ...............G. S.

Edward M. Preston ___ .G. M.
Nevada No. IJ
Born M•y 4, 1141
Died Aprll 24, 1703
Wm. T. Luces .........-.D. G. M.
Thomes Flint..............S. G. W.
F. M. Angellotti........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ··-·····G• S.

1890
Alveh R. Conklin............G. M.
Inyo No. 221
Born 1835
Died Od. 6, 1877
William Johnston._ ... D. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritman ....S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme....._.J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
George Johnson ····---··6. S.

1901
William S. Wells ............G. M.
Martinez No. 41
lorn Jun• 24, 1861
Died Jan. 23, 1919
0. S. Henderson...... D. G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting •...S. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter __ J. G. W.
Edward Colaman ............G. T.
George Johnson ________G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ......•.....G. L

1896

1902

William T. Luces............6. M.
Guadalup• No. 237
Born March 18, 1860
Died March 21, 1931
Thomes Flint. _________ O. G. M.
F. M. AngellottL.....S. G. W.
Ches. L. Patton..._ _J, G. W.
Edward Colemen ..·-··- ···G. T.
George Johnson _______6, S.

Orrin S. Henderson ...... G. M.
Morning Star No. 6B
Born June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting .... D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter..__S. G. W.
Motley H. FlinL_J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..·-···-··G• T.
George Johnson _____ 6. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds...- .•.....G. L.

1885

1891

Wiley J. Tinnin ....... _.....G. M.
Trinity No. Z1 .
Born Od. 7 1829
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... D. G. M.
Hiram N. Rucker......S. G. W.
Henry H. Knapp ......J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell..................G. S.

1897

William Johnston ..........G. M.
Franklln No. 143
Born June 2, 1825
Died Nov. 14, 1705
Ches R. Gritmen ...... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ........S. G. W.
Jas. B. Stevens..........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
George Johnson ···---···G. S.

Thomes Flint ··---·-·-·G• M.
Texas No. 46
Born May 191 1858
Died Nov. la, 1736
F. M. Angellotti... ..... D. G. M.
Chas L. Patton..........S. G. W.
Jes. A. Foshey.._......J. G. W.
Edward Colemen..._.......G. T.
George Johnson ______ G. S.

1903
Charles W. Nutting ......G. M.
Evening Star No. r86
Born Oct, 3, 1852
Dlad Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ...... D. G. M.
Motely H. Fllnt........S. G. W.
Edw. H. Hart________ ...J. G. W.
Edward Colemen __________ G. T.
George Johnson ___..6. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds ........._.6. L

1886

1892

1898

1904

Edmund C. Atkinson ....G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov. 17 1837
Died March ::!o, 1911
Hiram N. Rucker...... D. G. M.
Morris M. Estee ........S. G. W.
Alvah R. Conklin ......J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...............G. S.

Charles R. Gritman _ ...G. M.
Yount No. 12
Born Dec. 10, 1838
Died May 14, 1874
Henry S. Orme........ D. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens ..........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston ........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
George Johnson -··--··-G. S.

Frank M. Angellotti..._.G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 23, 1932
Ches. L. Patton ···-··-D. G. M.
Jes. A. Foshay..........S. G. W.
Wm. S. Wells............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ............G. S.

George W. Hunter......G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
BornDied Oct. 14, 1925
Motley H. Flint........ D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart............S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine ____J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..- ........G. T.
George Johnson -·--·-·-··-G. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds ............ G. L.

1887

1893

Hiram N. Rucker ·····-···G. M.
La Gran9e No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Morris M. Estee..... _.D, G. M.
Alvah R. Conklin ......S. G. W
Wm. Johnston ..........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
Alex G. AbelL. ...............G. S.

Henry S. Orme......._.....G. M.
So. Callfornla No. 278
Born March 25, 1837
Died Nov. 29, 1912
Jes. 8. Stevens...._....D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston ........S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............ G. T.
George Johnson ·--······G. S.

1888

1894

Morris M. Estee............ G. M.
California No. I
Born Nov, 23, 1834
Died Oct. 7, 1703
Alvah R. Conklin ...... D. G. M.
William Johnston ......S. G. W.
Marc. D. Boruck........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spauldtng ....G. T.
Alex G. AbelL .........- ..G. S.

James 8. Stevens _____ 6. M.
Yount No. 12
Born March Zl; 1841
Died Dec. 6, I 19
Edw. M. Preston ........ D. G. M.
Wm. T. Luces ............S. G. W.
Thomas FlinL...........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............G. T.
George Johnson _______6, S,

1899

1905

Charles L Petton .......... G. M.
Ca llfornla No. I
Born 1865
Died April II, 1923
Jes. A. Foshay .......... D. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells ....- ..-S. G. W.
0. S. Henderson......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............G. T.
George Johnson --·-····G. S.

Motley H. FlinL...........6. M.
East Gat• No. 270
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Died July 14, 1930
Edward H. Hert........ D. G. M.
Geo. M. Perine........S. G. W.
Reuben H. Uoyd __J, G. W.
Edward Coleman.......- ...G. T.
George Johnson ···--·-·6• S.
Wm. H. Edwerds ............G. L

1900
James A. Foshey............G. M.
So. California No. 278
Born Nov. 23, 1156
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells............ D. G. M.
0. S. Henderson ......S. G. W.
Chas. W. Nutting._.J, G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson _____ G; S.
Wm. H. Edw1rd1 ..... _ ..G. L

1906

Edward H. Hart ________ G, M.
Liva Oak No. 61
Born 1858
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perine........ D. G. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd ......S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler ________.J, <;. W.
Edward Colemen ............G. T.
George Johnson ____6. S.
Wm. H. Edw1rds...... _ ..6. L.

1907
George M. Perine........ G. M.
Pacific No. 136
Born 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Reuben H. Lloyd ......D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler............S. G. W.
W. Frank Pierce........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T.
George Johnson _ __6. S.
Thomes J. B.aker.............. G. L

1908

1913

1919

John D. Murphey..........G. M. Ches. Albert Adems ......G. M.
Excelsior No. 166
Alta No.333
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Born July 7, 18'3
Died Sept. 15, 1945
Geo. F. Rodden ........ D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ D. G. M. Sem. E. Burke............S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett........ S. G. W. Wm. A. Shermen ...... J . G. W.
F. V. Keesling ............J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. John Whicher...•..............6. S.
John Whicher..................G. S. Thomes J . Beker..............G. L
Thomes J. Beker..............G. L.

1914

1920

George F. Rodden ........G. M.
Oscar Lawler
..
G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe ............G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Dec.24, 1867
East Sate No. 290
San Bernardino No. 348
Died March 8, 1934
Born April 2, 1875
Born Feb. 8, 1874
Died Oct. 30, 1938
Sam. E. Burke............ D. G. M.
W. Frank Pierce........ D. G. M.
Dene R. Weller ........S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett........ D. G. M. Wm. A. Sherman ......S. G. W.
A. J. Monroe............J. G. W. F. V. Keesling ............S. G. W. Arthur S. Crites........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T. W. Rh. Hervey..........J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................&. S. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. John Whicher..................6. S.
Thomes J. B.aker..............G. L. John Whicher..................G. S. Thomas J. Beker.............. G. L.
Thomes J. Beker.............. G. L.

1909

W. Frank Pierce............ G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born JaR. 16, 1855
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dene R. Weller ........D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe............S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer ..........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomes J. Bek.er..............G. L.

1915

1921

Samuel E. Burke............&. M.
Albert G. Burnett.......... &. W.
Sunset No. 352
Santa Rose No. 57
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Born April 9, 1856
Wm.
A. Shermen ......D. G. M.
Died Au;. 15, 1923
F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M. Arthur S. Crites........S. G. W.
Wm. Rh. Hervey......S. G. W. Devid J. Reese ..........J. G. W.
Bradford Webster....J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. John Whicher..................6. S.
Joh'n Whicher..................6. S. Thomes J. Beker.............. G. L.
Thomes J. Beker..............G. L.
1922
1910
William A. Shermen......G. M.
1916
Dane R. Weller..............G. M.
Presidio No. 354
So. C..llfornla No. 278
Francis V. Keesling ........G. M.
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Born March 24, 1174
Californla No. I
Died
Feb. 19, 1940
Died Jan. 9, 1947
Born Feb. 17, 1177
A. J, Monroe............ D. G. M. Wm. Rh. Hervey......D. G. M. Arthur S. Crites........D. &. M.
Wm. P. Filmer..........S. G. W. Bradford Webster....S. G. W. David J. Reese..........S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey ..........J. G. W. Ches. A. Adems........J . G. W. Alb. E. Boynton ........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen ............G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.•.•..............G. S. John Whicher..................6. S. John Whicher..................6. S.
Thomes J. Be~er..............G. L Thomes J. Baker_ ...........6. L Thomes J. Beker..............6. L

1911

1917

1923

Alonzo J. Monroe..........G. M. Wm. Rhodes Hervey....G. M. Arthur S. Crites ............6. M.
Humboldt No, 79
Bakersfield No. 224
Pentelpha No. 202
Born Oct. 19, 1868
Born Feb. 4, 1879
Born March 26, 1870
Died June 14, 1922
David
J. Reese ..........D. G. M.
Bradford
Webster
....
D.
G.
M.
Wm. P. Filmer.......... D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey..........S. G. W. Ches. A. Adems........S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton........S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........J. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ........J. G. W. Geo. L Jones ............J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................6. S. John Whicher..................6. S. John Whicher..................6. S.
Thomes J. Beker..............G. L Thomes J. Beker..............G. L. Thomes J. Beker..............6 . L

1912
Wm. P. Filmer................ G. M.
Kin; Solomon No. 260
Bom March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey...... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett ........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen............ G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomes J. Baker..............G. L.

1918
Bradford Webster ........ G. M.
Liva Oak No. 61
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died June 4, 1941
Chas. A. Adems ........D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ........S. G. W.
Sam. E. Burke............J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomes J, Beker..............G. L.

455

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

454

1924

David J . Reese ..............G. M.
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
Born Au;. 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Alb. E. Boynton ........ D. G. M.
Geo. L Jones ............S. G. W.
Will H. Fischer..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher...............-6. S.
Thomes J. Beker........•.....G. L.

1925

1931

1937

1932

1938

Albert E. Boynton ..........G. M. Robt. B. 6eylord..........6. M. James T. Freser.....- .......6. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Orovllle No.103
Oakland No. 188
Born Aug. 21, 1868
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Born Nov. 24, 1876
Died Feb. 22, 1946
Frank W. Mixter...... D. G. M. Leon 0. Whitsell... ...D. G. M.
Geo. L Jones............ D. G. M. James B. 6ist............S. G. W. William H. Weste....S. G. W.
Will H. Fischer.......... S. G. W. Wm. A. Sitton ..........J. G. W. William B. Ogden ....J. 6. W.
Gus. A. Huteff..- .....J. G. W. Wm. Parker Fllmer.......... 6. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. John Whicher.................. 6. S. John Whicher...•..............G. S.
John Whlcher..................6. S. Thomes J. Baker..............&. L. Leslie E. Wood ................6. L
Thomes J. Beker..............G. L.

1926

Frank W. Mixter............G. M. Leon 0. Whitsell.......... G. M.
George L Jones............ 6. M.
Exeter No. 424
Orange Grove No. 293
Madison No. 23
Born Dec. 30, I 873
Born July 10, 1876
Born May II, 1873
Died May 22, 1947
William
H. Waste....D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer........ D. G. M. James B. Gist............ D. G. M.
Gus. A. HutefL.......S. G. W. Wm. A. Sitton ..........S. G. W. William B. Ogden ....S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg....J. G. W. R. V. Whiting ............J. G. W. Lloyd E. Wilson........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.._..............G. S. John Whicher..................6. S. John Whicher.................. 6. S.
Thomas J. Beker..............G. L. Thomes J. Beker..............G. L Leslie E. Wood ................G. L

1927

1933

Will H. Fischer.............. G. M.
Wiishire No. 445
Bom Sept. II, 1875
Gus. A. Huteff..........D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg ....S. G. W.
J. S. Rou ....·-··--·---·J• G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Themes J. Baker.........-...G. L.

James B. Gist................G. M.
Pentalphe No. 202
Born Aug, 8, 1868
R. V. Whiting ............D. G. M.
Earl Werren..............S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..·-········-···6· S.
Themes J. Beker.............. G. L

1928

1934

Gustav A. Huteff.......... G. M. Randolph V. Whiting ....6. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Kin; Solomon No. 260
Born Oct. 5, 1879
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg .... D. G. M. Earl Werren .............. D. G. M.
J. S. Rou ..................S. G. W. Rollie W. Miller........S. G. W.
Robt. B. Geylord ......J. G. W. James T. Freser........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.......- .........G. S. John Whicher..................6. S.
Themes J. Beker.........- ...6. L. Leslie E. Wood ...- ........ _.G. L

1929

1935

1930

1936

1939
William B. Ogden ........G. M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born Au;. 26, 1876
Lloyd E. Wilson........D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith ........S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whicher.....- ...........6. S.
Welter Leonerd.............. 6. L

1940
Uoyd E. Wilson ..............&. M.
ln;leslde No. 630
Bom Au;. 16, 1895
Frank M. Smith .......... D. G. M.
Leslie E. Wood ........S. G. W.
Claude H.Morrlson ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whicher..................6. S.
Walter Laonerd.. _.....•....6. L.

1941

C. M. Wollenberg........G. M. Earl Werren....................G. M. Frank M. Smitfi......... _...6. M.
East Sate No. 290
Sequoia No. 349
Starr King No. 344
lorn April 11, 1894
Born March 19, 1891
Born March 13, 1873
Leslie
E. Wood ..........D. G. M.
Rollie
W.
Miller
......
D.
G.
M.
John S. Ross..............D. G. M.
Robt. B. Geylord ......S. G. W. James T. Freser........S. G. W. Claude H.Morrison ..S. G. W.
Frank W. Mlxter........J. G. W. Leon 0. WhitselL...J. G. W. G. C. DeForest........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whicher..................6. S. John Whicher..................G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ..............6. S.
Thomes J. Beker.............. G. L Leslie E. Wood ...........•...•G. L Chester H. Warlow........G. L.
John Stewert Ross ........G. M. Rollie W. Miller............6. M.
El Centro No. 384
Sunset No. 352
Born May 21, 1879
Born Oct. 17, 1883
Robt. B. Geylord ...... D. G. M. James T. Freser........ D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter........S. G. W. Leon 0. WhitselL...S. G. W.
James B. Gist..._.......J. G. W. William H. Weste....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher...•..............6. S. John Whicher..................6. S.
Thomes J. Beker.............. 6. L. Leslie E. Wood ...•..·-····-·G· L

1942
Leslie E. Wood ..............G. M.
Provident No. 609
Born April 2, 1197
Claude H.Morrison ..D. 6. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..S. G. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Chester H. Werlow........G. L.

456

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1943

1945 .

Claude H. Morrison ______ G, M.

Lawrence C. Kelley______ G, M.

San 01940 No. JS
Born July 10, 1887

Gilbert C. DeForesLD. G. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W.
Arthur W. BrouilleLJ. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling _______G, T.
Uoyd E. Wllson_____________G. S.
Chester H. Warlow________ G, L

1944
Gilbert C. DeForesL___ G. M.
Reading No. 254
Born Sept. 18, 1889
Lawrence C. Kelley.. D. G . M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore__________J, G. W.
Francis V. Keesling _______ G, T.
Uoyd E. Wilson _________s. S.
Chester H. Warlow________G. L.

Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 231 1889
Died Od. 2'1, 1945

Arthur W. BrouilleL...G. M.
Park No. 440

Born Jan. 21, 1884
John R. Moore_______$, 6. W.
Francis V. Keesling________&, T.
Lloyd E. Wllson_____________G. S.
Chester H. Warlow._______G, L.

1946

John R. Moore______________G. M.
Meridian No. 667

1947
Chester H. Warlow______ G, M.
Fresno No. 247
Born June JO, 1889

Edward H. Siems______ o, G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer______S, 6. W.
Arthur Paulsen ________J, G. W,
Francis V. Keesling________&, T.
Lloyd E. Wllson_____________e;,
Arthur M. Warren_________e;, L

s.

1948
Edward H. Siems_________G, M.
Plymouth No. 560

lorn Sept. 1893
Born December 7, l'IOJ
Chester H. Warlow__O, G. M. Ellsworth Meyer________ D, G. M.
Arthur
Paulsen __________S. G. W.
Edward H. Siems......S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer________J. G. W. Louis C. Drapeau._____J, G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ________&, T. Francis V. Keesllng ___e;, T.
Lloyd E. Wilson___________G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ____________e;, S.
Arthur M. Warren __________G, L. Arthur M. Warren .. _.______ G, L.

457

LIST OF INSPECTORS
Inspectors
Dale of Commission
Dis1ric1
Clark H . Shaw.._________________________________________.........July, 1911..-···---------------------··-· 97
Karl L. Ratzer...........-----------·--·-······-··-------January 1, 1921....----------·-··---···-·······117
John M. Icardo..............-----···-·-------··-············January, 1921........---···-·················115
Ralph M. Foote.·----··-··--·----------------------..September 5, 1922----------------------------·-·· 26
F. J. Joubert............. ___________________________.,___ November, 1924.------------------··-----·-··-- 12
S. Leslie Hawken....................................January 27, 1925...............................• 52
Arthur E. Tangeman.......---····-··-···········.February 1, 1925................................ 94
Joel S. Conklin........... _..................................January, 1927................................ 11
Clarence L. Fraser....·---------------------------····December, 1927..·-----·-·-·--·-------····-···· 63
Wm. S. Thompson......----·-·······-·-··-----------········.March, 1928•.:.. _________________ .......... 59
Rudolph Mohr, Jr,..________............-.................January, 1929...._..............._......._... 46
Geo. P. Salm..............___ .......................... _____....June 14, 1930........... ___.................. 82
Harry O. Carlson..-----·---·------------·-··-----------------July 1, 1930•._..........----------·-····--· 57
George A. Otis.......... ________________________________________..May, 1932--------------------------------112
Niles 0 . Millar................-----···---------·----------·--···July, 1932... ____________________________ 32
Thomas B. Pollard...._____________________ ...............January, 1933................................ 19
Harry S. Clark................-------------------------...October 1, 1933..------------------------------111
W. Roy F·a rmer....·--------------------------------·--------January, 1934...-----------------·-----·----- 92
Herman Thode ........ __________________________________ ......March, 1934.·---·-·-·----·----·-·--···---·· 8
H. R. Hargrave_______________________________....September 15, 1934·--------·---------------------- 62
Chas. H . Knights......________________________....December 28, 1934...-----------------------------108
Alexander D. Potts..·--------·--·---'-----------.....January 1, 1935.. _________________________ ....,103
W. I. Kohnke________________________.___________________January 1, 1935.------------------------------· 47
John Behrens............__________________________________January 2, 1935..------------------------------114
Chas. S. Hogan...·-------·------------------·-----·-·----------APril. 1935..------·-··------------····--- 5
Carl C. Miltesell_..____________________________________......October, 1935_____________________________ .,.104-A

Samuel Dollar -----------------------------------------·.Dect!mber, 1935----------------------------··-- 61
Willard G. Babcock__________________________ ......January 10, 1936________________________________106
A H. Allen................... ------------------------····---·--January, 1936-------------------------·-·---·100
James W. Robinson.. ___________________________.........January, 1936.....----------------·-····--··· 16
Wm. L. Davis_............-----------····-·----------··-··----October, 1936...---------------····-·-·-----· 60
William C. Gover..·------------·--·---------------···-·--October, 1936..----------------·--··--····--· 6
Carl F. Peters..·--------------------------------------November 1, 1936...-------------------·--·----- 80
George S. Ward....-------------------------------·--·--·January 1, 1937_______________________________ 4
Lucas Shafter_...........___________________________ .......January 1, 1937...---------------------------· 14
Gustaf AB. Quick... __________________________________;June 5, 1937_______________________________ 71
Ralph H. Logsdon....________________________________.December, 1937........... ___________________..104
Karl F. Stolting......... ______________ ____________________ .April 1, 1938..........--------------------·· 50
Fred Weed--··---······------·---········----··-------·-·-September, 1938·-····-····---·········---------110
George L. Stivers....·-----------····-·-···-·······-November, 1938-----------------------·---··--· 23
Guido de GhetaldL _______________________..............October, 1938... ·---------------------------· 18
Roy S. LenthalL....----··---·-----··-----········-····---·January, 1939..--------------------------··· 36
Ralph C. Hine............-----·---------------------------·---.August, 1939.._____________ ................. 70
Geo. E. Delavan, Jr..................... ---·-·-----.........August, 1939.............................-.• 73
Wm. H. Baxter........______________________ ............December, 1939.•......·-··-·······-·---···-·- 65
J. Wesley Sibole......_________________________________.December, 1939....--------------------------- 25
Frederick A Penn.......------···-------·--------··--·-..---··· 1940.......:...._............_______ 51

458
InspectOf's

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Dale of Commission

Dimict

Ralph L. Pierson.......·..................................- ...May 6, 1940................................ 95
J. Tyler Parker, Jr...................................September, 1940................................ 90
E. L. Hicok (served 1923 to 1936)..............0ctober, 1940.,.............................. 17
Harold S. Morrison................................December 1, 1940................................ 89
Emil Bender...- ...........................................January 1, 1941................................ 44
Elbert W. Davis........................................January 11, 1941................................ 33
Henry Kaiser_..................................................Aprll 1, 1941................................ 55
Rolla L. Eubanks...............................................April, 1941................................ 30
John Ferguson, Jr.......................................October 7, 1941................................ 45
Nels H. Johnson........................................January 6. 1942................................ 53
Leighton D. Annstrong..........................February 1, 1942................................ 22
Robert K. McGuire....: ...........................February 26, 1942................................ 88
Miles J. McClelland....................................March 10, 1942................................ 21
Bert T. Baker..............................................October 7, 1942................................ 48-B
Earl D. Fonda....- .................................December 13, 1942................................ 10
Edmund B. Skinner..................................January 8, 1943................................ 96
Orville L. Coburn..........................................March 3, 1943................................ 66
Elmer M. Hopper............................................May 10, 1943................................ 3
Henry S. Savage, Jr.........................................July 4, 1943................................ 35
Melvin R. Berbower............................N ovember 10, 1943................................ 98
Martin G. DeHaan..................................January 20, 1944................................ 76
Harry A. Bradford..................................January 26, 1944....................... .:....... 39
Frederic E. Clark....................................January 26, 1944................................. 78
Earl Stewart..............................................February 6, 1944................................ 31
Ray W. Mclntyre..........................................March 8, 1944............ ~ .................... 54
Jesse W. Reynolds........................................March 8, 1944................................ 54-A
John Simpson.................................................March 8, 1944................................ 24
Leo E. Anderson.......................................- .....May 17, 1944................................ 91
Eric R. Johnson (served 1924 to 1942)........May 31, 1944................................ 48~
John Ramsay..........................................._ ........July 5, 1944................................. 99
Guy B. Mize............................................November 4, 1944................................ 86
Dwight C. Freeman......................................March 2, 1945................................ 87
James B. Lawson..........................................March 6, 1945................................ 64
Arch Balchin................................................March 27, 1945................................ 56
Floyd H. Watson........................................March 30, 1945................................ 69
Charles C. Hale......................................._.,......July 2, 1945................................ 28
James B. Steele.................................-···-···July 20, 1945................................ 7
Cecil M. Prior........................................September 6, 1945................................ 68
Edward C. Lohmeyer........................September 27, 1945................................ 40
Alexander Duncan....................................October 9, 1945................................ 1
Robert W. NicoL......................................October 24, 1945................................106
W. Corell Smith....................................December 20, 1945................................ 20
Waldemar F . Anderson......................December 20, 1945................................ 38-A
Raymond V. Worthley..............................January 7, 1946................................ 13
M. J. Jensen, Jr..........- ..........................January 22, 1946................................ 48
Alfred J. Thibodeau................................February 6, 1946................................ 42
Henry C. Wedemeyer................................August 2, 1946................................102
Louis L. Cunningham................................August 2, 1946................... _ .......... 81
Thomas Hillary.........._ .......................September 26, 1946................................ 67

InspeaOf's

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

459

Date of Commission

Dislricl

E. A. Stevens..............................................October 3, 1946................................116
Ralph Anderson....................................November 4, 1946................................ 29
James G. Disher..................................November 12, 1946................................ 34
Frank W. Johnson..............................November 21, 1946................................ 85
John A. Crosbie....................................November 21, 1946................................ 79
John A. Cummins................................November 23, 1946................................ 41
Clare B. Oampbell...................................January 1, 1947................................ 15
Arch T. Roberson......................................January 1, 1947................................ 27
Orville M. Whitley___ .............................January 1, 1947................................ 58
Ray R. Bell............................................- .........April 7, 1947................................107
Stephen E. SkidD1ore..........................._.... _...April 7, 1947................................ 93
Fred C. Pritschke...........................................April 7, 1947................................ 66-A
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr...........................September 8, 1947................................ 83
Rene Canonica ......................................September 8, 1947................................113
Harry Burrows......................................December 15, 1947................................ 2
Roy C. Bryan (served 1938 to 1944) ..December 20, 1947................................ 77
Russell Northrop........................... :......December 20, 1947................................ 75
Rush Manbert........................................December 20, 1947................................ 48-A
Frank R. Killinger, Jr.........................December 29, 1947................................ 37
Howard S. Kaulbach..........................December 29, 1947................................ 38
Haiman L. Wayne................................December 29, 1947................................ 43
Martin Ortlieb..........................................January 13, 1948................................109
Stanley Hurst Wentz................................March 16, l~........:....................... 49
Roy T. Kiele..·---··--··-·--·---------·--·--·--·----·-·.April 22, 1946................................. 84
William T. Rodger...................................- ...April 22, 1948................................101
Howard Laurent..._..................................- ...June 19, 1948................................ 96-A
Robert N. Walker....- .............................- .......July 28, 1948................................ 54-A
Elmer Glen Van Tassell...................September 11, 1946................................ 9

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Recognized and in PralernaJ Relations with 1he
Grand Lodge of California

Bolivia:
Isaias Pacheco Jimenez, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564,
La Paz. Bolivia.
Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
Aguinaldo Marques Lobo, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes N. 21, Bahia, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
Pa?l M. Pinto, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal N. 5, Belo Horizonte, Estado de Minas, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
ThE; Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
Or~ando do Rego Luna, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
C~dido Marinho Rocha, Grand Se~ty.,
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Jose Rodrigues, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
0. M. deFleury, Grand Secty., Rel. Ext.,
Caixa Postal 2611, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Jonas H. Py, Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 1824, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
Canada:
AlbertaGeorge Moore, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Calgary.
British ColumbiaW. R. Simpson, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
Ontario-Ewart G. Dixon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 217, Hamilton, Ontario.
ManitobaDr. Peter T. Pilkey, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.
New BrunswickR. D. Magee, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotiaReginald V. Harris. Grand Secty.,
F. M. Hall, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandL. A. McDougall, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E. L

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

QuebecW. W. Williamson, Grand Secty..
P. 0. Box 1559, Montreal, Quebec.
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate. Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chile:
Dr. Juan Eduardo Pastene, Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
Colombia:
National Grand Lodge at BarranquillaEugenio Baena Manotas, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 333.
The Grand Lodge ''Francisco de Paula Santander"
The Grand Secretary
Apartado Nal. 25, Cucuta, Colombia, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogota.
Enrique de Paramo, Grand Secty..
Apartado No. 2519, Bogota, Colombia.
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena.
Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves B. Grand Secty.,
Apartado Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba. Isle of:
Dr. Constantino Pais Gutierrez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.
•czecho-Slovakia:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia at Prague.
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeAlex Troedsson, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamavej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Ecuador:
Augusto Jijon T., Grand Secty.,
Casilla No. 932. Guayaquil, S. A.
Egypt:
Mohamed Bey Rifaat, Grand Secty.,
The National Grand Lodge of Egypt,
4 Sharia Adly Pacha, Cairo, Egypt.
England:
Sidney A. White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.
Finland:
Eino Kyllonen, Grand Secty.,
Vyokatu 9 B-14, Helsinki, Finland.
*France:
Independent National Grand Lodge.
*Germany:
The Grand Lodge of Saxony.
Grand Lodge "Concord" at Darmstadt.
Grand Lodge "German Fraternal Chain" at Leipzig.

461

'462

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Grand National Mother Lodge of the Prussian States,
"The Three Globes" at Berlin.
Grand Lodge of Hamburg.
The Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union at Frankfort.
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship at Berlin.
The National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons at Berlin.
The Grand Lodge "Zur Sonne" at Bayreuth.

Peru:
Cesar Cevallos Villacorta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2190, Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Antonio Gonzales, Grand Secty.,
520 San Marcelino, Manila, P. I.

Guatemala:
Oscar Paz Pinto, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 312, Guatemala City, C. A.

Puerto Rico:
Angel M. Torres, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 747, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

Hondurus:
Constantino S. Ramos, Grand Secty.,
Teguciagalpa, Honduras.

Queensland:
E. G. Radford, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.

Ireland:
H. C. Shellard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico, Wm. Webber, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 196, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific, Alonzo Castanedo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas, Nicolas C. Kauffman, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico," Arturo Deloy Labardini, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Independent Grand Lodge "Cosmos," Jose Vidal Rios, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
The Grand Secretary,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mexico
Netherlanda:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. A. A. Galestin, Grand Secty.,
22 Fluweelen Burgwal, The Hague.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secretary, Masonic Hall, Sidney, N. S. W.
New Zealand:
H. A. Lamb, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1193, Wellington, New Zeland.
Nicaragua:
James W. Parker, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 42, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Norway:
O. Brinchmann-Hansen, Grand Secty.,
Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama:
Jose Oller, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 4, Panama, C. A.

463

Salvador (Cuscailan):
Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
San Salvador, C. A.
Scotland:
Alexander F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
South Australia:
F. J. Ellen, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, North Terrace, Adelaide, So. Australia.
Sweden:
.
Eric Hallin. Grand Secty.,
Frimurareorden, Blasieholmsgatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerland:
The Chancery of the Grand Lodge Alpina,
Bogenschutzenstrasse, 8, Berne, Switzerland.
Tasmania:
H. A. Wilkinson. Grand Secty.,
1177 MacQuarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Venezuela:
Jesus Coronado, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venzuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodge,
W. Stewart, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.
"Vienna:

West Australia:
F. W. M. Sanders, Grand Seety..
G. P. 0 . Box D-177, Perth, Australia.
"Yugoslavia:
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Croats & Slovenes.

•Recognized by the Grand Lodge of California prior to being rendered
inoperative before and during World War II, subsequent to which no resumption of fraternal relations has been effected.

464

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued

A
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alto Loma (643), Signal Hill.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls {UD) Long Beach
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
·
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Cal~ayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Catalina (337), Crockett.

Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citro! (656), Brea.
Clairborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat. .
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.

Clovis (417), Clovis.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.

465

Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Evening Star (186), Etna Mills.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.

F
Fairfax (556), San Anselmo.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497)..1. Oakland.
Fresno (247), .Hesno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.

Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park; (605), Los Angeles.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

466

Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.

H
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Huntington Beach (380),
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Huntington Beach.

I
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.

Indian Wells Valley (691), Inyokern.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Inyo (221), Independence.

J

James A. Foshay (641), Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
J·ames Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.

Keystone (161), Milton.
Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.

Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Lankershim (542), North Hollywood.
La Puenta (446), Puenta.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno. ·
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Laurel (245), Willows.

467

Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Lomita (644), Torrance.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Honolulu, T. H.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles. Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Livingston (658), Livingston.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, T. H.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Mountain View (194),
Mountain View.
Menlo Park (651), Palo Alto.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Jac~on (295), Guernev:ille.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount MC?riah (44), San Francisco.
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
Mount Ollve (506), Los Angeles.
Midway (426), Taft.
.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Military Service (570), San Francisco. Mount Shasta (281), Anderson ..
Mill Valley (356), l\fill Valley.
Mount Vernon (517), San FrancISco.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.

Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.
North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190), Milville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.

Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Q:lqlard.

468

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H.
Penrhyn (358), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.

Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689). Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (UD) Fresno
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354). San Francisco.
Progressive (578). Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
. Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Los Angeles.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.

South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco.
South West (283), National City.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

Q

T

Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto •

Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rio Vista (208). Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397). Huntin.g ton Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland
San Marino (685), South Pasadena.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Miguel (285) San Miguel
San Antonio (694), South Gate.
San Pasqual (452) Pasadena ·
San Benito (~11), Hollister.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro. ·
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino.San Simeon (196), Cambria.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
San qemente (671), S!in Clemente.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
San D~ego (35), San D1e~o.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
San Drmas (428), San Drmas.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
Santa Monica (307) Santa Monica
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
Santa Paula (291) Santa Paula ·
San Gabriel (546), San Ga.briel.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa. ·
San Gorgonio (668), Bannmg.
Schofield (443), Schofield Barracks,
Sanger (316), Sanger.
T. H.
San Jacint~ (338), San Jacinto.
Seal Rock (536) San Francisco.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.

Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trana (684), Trana.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge 587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.

Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

469

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

w
Warren G. Harding (579),
White Pine (555), Weed.
North Sacramento.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
William D. Stephens (698) Los Angeles
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Willits (365), Willits.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
West Gat.e (335), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
Woodridge (131), Woodridge.
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles. Woodland (156), Woodland.
Westwood (501), Westwood.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

York (423), Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

INDEX FOR

1948

Page
A
Accounts Committee, Report of-···---··--········-·····-···-······-··-·········-··---···-··- 121

Advances for Other Jurisdictions...................................................................................... 285
Ahrendt, Frank E., Appointed Junior Grand Steward..--·········································- 301
Alphabetical List of Lodges.............................................................................................. 464
Amendments -··-··--····························································--·····························-·····-·- 269
Amendments to By~Lawa.....
·--······-·-···--··-·-·······-·······-----M. 209
Anderson, Charles E., Appointed Grand Organfst.. _____··---···········-········-········ 301
Anderson, Harold L., Appointed Trustee of the Masonic Homes.·--························ 301
Anniversaries of United States Grand Lodges.__.····-·-·······--······-········-··-·····- 151
Annual Electian...-----··----·-·····-·····--···········································-············-·-·- 300
Annual Returns 1~----····-···-·-··'·-····························-········-·············-·····--- 386
Appointments-Grand Masters Message-·-·················-····-···········-··--·-·------ 20
Appreciation ····-·------·····-·····················································································-··-····· 120

~~~::ag:nd~:::::::::::::::~::.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::=::::::=:=~-=::::::= }~

1
Assistant Grand Secretary-·····································---··-----------~·--· 301
Assistant Grand Treasurer·-····-················-·····-·······-····················-·-···-····-·······--·- 263
Audit of Accounts..----·-················-····-········-··················-····--··-··--···-·--·- 271
Audit of 1948 Returns..---···················-·····································-···-···--···--·--··--· 342
Auditors IUport.-------·-··········-················-········-·····--··-·-·--··-·-·-'- 307
On Grand Lodge Funds..·--····················································--····-···-·····-·-·-·-- 308
On Grand Secretary's Accounta._ ..............................................·--········-·-- 310
On Grand Treasurer's Account&....-·-···························-··-···-··-······--····-··· - - 313
On Masonic Homes Endowment Fund.·-···········--···-··-·····-··------------ 316
On Masonic Homes Pund.---·-·························-··········----~------··- 323
Audit of 1948 Rduml.....·-······-······-····----··························-----··--····- 342

B
Benicia Temple_··-·······---·-······-····-··-·····-···.:.···········-·········-··-·-···
260
Benicia Temple, Purchaae of------------·-·-·······-··--·--·..--------···--- 47
Berkeley Masonic Clubhouse-Report of Directors...·-·····-······-···········--··---- 180
Bethlehem Lodge No. .f53-Decislon._·······-·-·········---·--··-···············------ 29
Beverly Hills Lodge No. 647 Temple Dedicated Jan. 31, 1948---····--···-·--·-··- 24
Biography-Chester Harvey Warlow, Grand Master----- -····-····-··---·--·-·-·1
Bixby Knolls Lodge-Instituted July 31, 1948..--- ···-·····-··-·-··-...----··- - - 23
Blythe Lodge No. 473-Dispensation Request_.-·-··-·········---,----···- 177
Board of Control.----··----··-······-·-····-············-··-······-"··········-···-·39• 276, 401
Board of Ccatrol-Report of·--·----·-····-··-····-·--·-------- -··
115
Boards, Coostttutianal.___________________•............•...••.- .•·-·····-·--·············---- 401
Boards of Relirf
·-··...··----··-···...-----·...··--·--·------···-····--··---·-··--·-···---- 115
Bryan, Roy C.-Appointed Inspector.....-·-···························-······--·················-···-- 21
Budget for 1~1949___····-----·-·------·-··········-····································-····---29f• 306
Burrows, Harry-Appointed Inspector-.........................---···-···········-···-··----- 21
By-Laws Committee 1948...••.•·-·--··-·-·-··--·········-···-·-······-······-··-····----- 398

c
Carr, Obed W.-Appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer.•.-----·-····--····-- 301
Centennial Arrangement --··············--···-··-·-···-········-····-·······--···-··················- 289
Report of Comm•tt.ee•.•.-..........--·········---······-·--·-···-··--·-······-···-·····---··--- 153
Charters Cammittee--Report oL·--···-···-··············-------···-·-··-·······-·--··--·- 218
Charters Committee 19.f8........-·--··············-·············----------···-----··----- 398

472

INDEX

INDEX

473

Page

Page

Columbia Temple Reatoratlon..........................................................................259, 288, 296
Report of Commlttee-······················-···························································-···.···- 197
Committee 1948---·'·······························································'········-··············-··· 400
Committee on CIJartaos.._···············--························································-······················· 282
Committee on Constitution Month Observance.......................................................______ 279
Committees, Constitutional anl SpedaL-..- ......................:............................................ 39
Committee on Correapondence...-···- ································-··········································· 280
Committees Oiachargecl__
. -·········-·······-······················································-··········· 298
Committees of Investigation on Application for Degrees.............................................. 25
Committee on Pay of Members.·-·-···-·--·-···-·--·-············-············-·················-···· 286
Committee on Public School Week.................................................................................• 279
Committee, Special
-·-··---····---····-----·········----------······--·······---------······-······--··· 399
Committees, Standing 1947-·······························································--···························· 397
Condition of the Home&.----······················································-··················----·····--- 96
Consolidated Cash Statement.__......................................................................._.........• 304
Consolidated Investment StatemenL-...........................................·-············-----·········- 304
Constituent Lodges--Llst of__
-··················-·-·······-····--····---··-··-·····-· 436
Constitution Month Observance-Report of__·····································-·······------ 177
Constitution Month Observance Committee 1948......................:.............................- 399
Constitutional Boards---··-·····---···--···-································································- 401
Contributions Through Lodgea.••......................................................................- ......•126, 353
Control, Board of, Report.__·-···-·····································································-····.· ·····- 115
Correspondence-Report of Qxnmittee.........................................................................._ 144
Correspondence Committee 1948....·-·-·······································································- 398
Covina Home:
Names of Children.......--·--·-·····················-························-·······················-··- 373
Admitted 1947-1948.....----···············-·····························-···························- 374
Departed During the Year_............................................................................... 374
Outside RelleL-...· - - ·- ·--··············································································- 375
Visitations ·--·-············-·······························-······················································· 375
Entertainment ·--······································································································ 376
Donations · · - - -···············- ··-····--········································································· 377
Christmas and Entertainment Funcf__.................................................................. 381
Report of Superintendent
-~---~ .................................................................... 103
Covina Home Raidents-...--·············-····································································· 103
Credentials-Report of Committee...........................................................-........................ 208
Credentials Committee 1948---·-············································································ 397
Crites, Arthur S., Past Grand Maater-························-···················-·····-··············- 297
Crossroads Lodge Instituted May 29, 1948_................................................................... 23

Degree Team--Declsion..............--····························-··············································- 31
Delta Lodge, No. .f71-Dedalon....._.............................................................................. 28
De Molay, Report of SJ>edal Committee-···············································-····--··············· 137
De Molay Committee 1948-.......................................................................................... 400
Devotional Scrvtcea...
-·-··················································································- 8
Directors of Masonic Qubhousea.................................................................................... 402
Dispensations ····-··-·-······················································-················································· 264
Dispensations Oeni.ed_--··············································'············································- 63
Dispensations 1-ed.-----······································-························-·-··········- ·····- 63
Dispensations for New Lodges._.................................,......_......................................- 22
Dispensation Request-Blythe Lodge-·-·······················································-'·······- 177
Dispensation to Blythe Lodge No. 473-....................................................._____ 268
Distinguished Guesta.----------·-·······················-··············:.............f.f, 187, 248
Distinguished Guests Committee 1948----···.·································--·········--··400
Drapeau, Louis C.-Elected Junior Grand Warden...........·-············--····················-··· 301
Duffy, Clinton T.-Appointed Senior Grand Deacon._...........................·-··············• 301

D
Decisions ·-----··········································································-··································· 264
Decoto Home:
Name of Residents--Men.......................................................................................... 356
Name of Residents--Women...................................- ....................-················-·- 358
Admissions 1947-1948.·--··-··························-······························-·-·--·-·········-·· 361
Withdrawals ··---·······---···-··-·························-··········································-············· 362
Deaths-1947-1948 ··-······························································································ 362
Visitations-····--································································································ 364
Contributions ··-- -- ········-······-······································-····-··························· 367
Christmas and Entertainment Fund.....................................................-···········-··- 369
Report of Superintendent-•.....·--···································--··············-············-····· 100
Decoto Home Realdenta ·----···---···------------·--·--·---···---············--··········---------·'----·· 103
Dedications of Masonic Temple&.----~·-···················-················-····-················-····- 24

E
Eleced Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization........................................................- 451
Employment Bureaus.....---- - ·- - -- ·-····---········-··········································-· 116
Endowment Board Masonic Homes, Report oL............................................................ 122
Endowment Boanl----·--··-··-------··-.
. . ··-··-······-·············································__ 401
Endowment
PuncL___________________________________________________________________________
53
Endowment Fund-Report of Contributions to..._....................................................... 343
Enlargement of Board of Trustees Masonic Homes........................................................ 97
European Masonic Relief.·-··-··--···----·--:...···························'·················-·· 27
Expenditures, No Appropriations Made..----·················································-··· 291
Expenses of Grand Tiler and Grand Organist-.•..•................................................... 291
Extinct Lodgeit---·-··-···--············-··--···-···--·····-···-······································· 447

F
Fallbrook Lodge No. 317, Temple Dedication..................................................._........... 24
Fees for Degrees._-···-·-------·--·-··················--·-·····-··········-··········~··-··· 57
Fifty Year Buttons - - ···-·····································-············-····-····-·-·-···-········- 67
Finance Committee--Report of_·················-·-··-··········-············-············-····-·····- 271
Finance Committee 1948--·--··························-·························-······························· 397
Finances-Masonic Hom.ea.....••..--··································-····················-····-·-····-··-····· 99
Forbes, Charles Sr.-Appointed Grand Bible Bearer-··················-·············-··············· 301
Foreign Freemasonry....·-···-····----··----·----·······-···-··----········-······-·····-·· 149
Foreign Grand Lodges.._..·---············-·-·······························-······--····~··-·····-- 460
Freedom Train Committee-Report of-·····-···-···················-···-···-·········--·-···--- 222
Friday, October 15, 1947
Morning Sesalon...·-·····-······································································-······------ 269
Afternoon Sesafoa._._....................................·-····-···-··-·-··--·······-···-··-···--····· 299

G
Gavin, George D.-Appointed Grand Marshal-·················---------···········-············ 301
General Offices of Grand Lodge.___
·--·················-··--······················· 58
Georgetown Lodge No. 25 Temple Destroyed by Pre-•................................·-········-- 25
Georgetown Lodge No. 2S.._
···-·-··············-···························· 284
George Washington Masonic National Memorial...-.•···-·········································- 253
George Washington Masonic Memorial-Report of Special Committee................_ 129
Gordon, John M.-Appointed Grand Pursulvant.._....................·-·····················--- 301

474

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Grand Chaplain-"The Three Levels of Masonry"················································----- 8
Grand Lecturer and Aaslstanta.....-····················-···················································'········· 40
Grand Lecturer-Report of._.······-···························-··············-·······························-- 71
Grand Lodge Activities Week._····························································-·········-········-- 280
Grand Lodge Audit.___.---·-···················-·····················-············-····-············- 307 ·
Grand Lodge Budget 19f7-19f8.-··························································-······················· 306
Grand Lodge lncorporatlcll....---·-·-·································································-·············- 257
Grand Lodgea--Poreign.._________________________________________.................................................. 460
Grand Lodge Punda-Auditors Report oL..................................................................... 308
Grand Lodge-General Pund.--· - -··--··············································--·-···----···· 53
Grand Lodge Magazim--·-----····--··-···--·-··························································· 261
Grand Lodge Week Activities Committee 19f&.•................................·-···················-··- 398
Grand Master's Biography-------·-···--················································-············· 1
Grand Master's Messave----··--·····-·····················································---······················· 16
Visitations and Trawla.·---·----·--,--······························-·····························----·---- 16
Appointments ------··-·············································-··································· 20
Inspectors-List ol
·--·····--····-·····-·-·-····---·---········--------········--·-----·~-- 21
New Lodges Cooatituted.---······································································-········· 21
Dispensations for New Lodgea.....----···-··-····················-·-····-····-····-··-···- 22
Dedications of Masonic Temples.·-······································------···--······---·-··- 24
Other Special Communicatioos...................................- ..·························-············- 24
Masonic Oubhousa..-···-·-···························································-····--···--···-- 24
Fire Lauea·-·-··--·--·-·'······---··-----···-····--L·······-····················-··-··-·-- 25
Committees of Investigation on Applications for Degree&.•.......--················-····- 25
Paintings of Grand Masters.......•·-····-········-··-··-----··················-··············-·- 26
Pettus Blhle--········--····-·····-·-································--·····-···-···········-··-·········:... 26
European Masonic RelieL-------·-·········------·-·- -··-·····--·········-·---- 27
Decisions ·-·-····-······-···-····-·······-·······-··············-················································ 28
Negro Muomy--·-·--··-····---------···--·-············--·····- 32
The Issue Is Not Negro Masonry But Territorial Jurisdiction............................ 36
Prince Hall Masons Seek White Alli•·······-·-·-·-----························· 38
Boards-Trustees and Committ.ees...-·-·······-············-··-···················--··- 39
lnepectda._----····----·········--·········-·········-·-······-······-····-··· 40
Grand Lecturer and Aaslstants.................................................................................. 4<.l
Grand Secretary
-·-·-·-········-·····-··-····-------·····--··-·······---·--···-·-····--···· 40
Recommendations ···-··-··········································································-············--·· 41
Conclusion -··-···--·-·····-················-······································································ 42
Grand Master's Portraits........- ••·--····- -·-····················- ····--··································- 262
Grand Master's Stenographic Servk:e........·---···-·································-·····-·-···-·· 273
Grand Lodge Officers Elected Since Organization.........- ..·-············-·····--···-·············· 451
Grand Lodge Per CapitL-----·····-··--·.:..- -··················--·--···-··---········-·- 293
Grand Lodge Representation........................·······-···········-·-····················-··-- ·············-· 257
Grand Lodge Reaervea..._---·······-············--··························-·····-················-··-- 291
Grand Oration:
Judge Albert C. Wollenberg Grand Orator...........·-··-····---······-·······················- 75
Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara..••••·---··--··········-·····--··············-·······-··-······· 251
Grand Lodge of PlnlancL-······--·---·-·---········-·················-·························- 252
Grand Lodge Francisco De Paula Santander.---·-····-··········-···-······························· 251
Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul.--·-·····--··--·--·············----·-·-·__. 252
Grand Lodge Unida Mexlcana..---·-·-·-····························-···-···············--·-····-···- 250
Grand Secretary ---·-- - - ····-·········-·-··············-·················-·······-·-···-·-··-·-··- 40
Grand Secretary's Accounts-Auditor's Report oL--·-··-·····-·---···-·--··-····-·- 310
Grand Secretary, Report
57
Legislative Procedures ·········-·-·-··-····························------·---····························- 57

oL-------··---··-·····-··'-----···---····-

475
Page

Grand Secretary, Report of-(Continued)
Fees for Degrees......-·-··--···-·-··-·-······························································ 57
General
of Grand Lodge..-····-·······························-··········-··-·-··-···-·· 58
Membership -··----····-··-··--·-···---···································-······················ 58
Visitations ----··--·-···-···--··-··--·····--····················-·······-·······-········-····· 59
New Lodges ········--·····-·········-·········--·-··························································-··· 59
Life Memberships -··········-···-··-········--·······················-····-····-····················-···· 61
Dispensations Issued --·····-·········-·················-···········-······························-········· 63
Dispensations Denied ··-·····--···-·---·-······-·-···-······--·-···:······---------·····-······ 63
Amendments to By-Laws...-·-·······------------------- 64
Resolutions ···-····-··························-···-··························--···--·-······-- -·······-···-·· 65
Trial Records --·····················-····-·-····---··························--····················-·-· 65
Fifty Year Buttooa...-···-·········-···-········-·----····-···-···-···············-··-·-··- 67
Grand Treasurer's Accounts-Auditor's Report of...·----·----··-···--;.. 313
Grand Treasurer, Report
50
Gravel Lodge No. 59.--··--···-·-··-·-·--·---··-··-···-···-·······-·-·····-··- 283
Grievances, Report of Committee..·-··--···--···-················----·-···············-······---- 160
Grievances Committee, 19f8..........·-·········---··--·--------·---·-··· - - - - - - 397
Group Degrees ---·-··----·-··----·-·-----.,..,
,, .~ 259

oaces

of-·--··--- ----------···--·----·--·-·

H
Hanshaw, Mervyn E., Appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer..................................20, 301
Harwell, Frank Jr., Appointed Assistant Grand Lec:turer---································20, 301
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647 Temple Dedicated Nov. 8, 1941----······························--·· 24
Head, Ralph Appointed Trustee of the Masonic Homes..........·-··········-····-·····-····-- 301
History, Masonic, Report of Committee••--------··········································-···-- 139
---·-·--··-····-··-······-----··----·--·- " ' • 354
Honorable Mention
Homes, Admissions and Applications, Report oL.............--·······-······-····-··--- 106
Homes General Panel_----------·-·-················-···-······-········-······- -- 53
Hornitos Lodge, No. 98". Dedslon..·----·--·-·················-·············--·--············--- 29
Horwege, Alvin A., Appointed Grand Tiler-----···-·········-··············- -··----··---- 301

I
Income ··-·-···--···-··--···-·········--··-·····-·----·-··--····-·---··---···-·---···-- 295
Incorporation ···-·--····--·············-··-·-·-···-···-·····-·····--····---·········-···--·-- 266
Individual Contributions ·---····-··-·-····················--·-··--··-········-·------ 126
Individual Contributors -----······················-······---·-----·········-·······--···-·····--·- 353
In Memorium-Past Masters of Constituent Lodges._.___.______···-- · - 236
Inspectors ···-···· -···--··-·····-····-·······-··- ··-··- ·-·········-··········-··--·-·-····- ··-·- 40
Inspectors, List
457

ol------·-·--···-----··---:..-----·-J

Jurisdiction, Report of Committee--··-···-·-·····-······- ····'··-············-·-·········-····-·- 159
Jurisprudence Committee, Report of••---~---··-···-···-----·---·--·- 264
Dispensations · - -·····-·-···-······- -···-······················-···-····-·············--···-········-· 264
Decisions --·--·--·-·····-······-·-·--·······-·--·············-·······-·····-··-···-··--- 264
Incorporation -·-···------------···-·-······-···················-·····-·-····-·······-··-- 266
Revision of Section 79--·-~------···--·-······-----··-··-·---- 267
Dispensation to Blythe Lodge No. 473-------·-·····----··--·~·-- 268
Time for Inspectors Reports...·-·-···-····------·-··--·--·-··----·--··--··- 268
Amendments · - -·····-················-·-·········-·············-·---···-·-···--········--···-- 269
Judisprudence Committee, 1 9 f 8 - - - - - - · - - - - - - · - -··-··-·· · - - - 397

476

INDEX

INDEX

Page

Page

K
Kaulbach, Howard S .. Appointed Inspector-.............................................................. 21
Keesling, Francis V .. re-elected Grand Treaaurer,......................................................... 301
Kiele, Roy T ., Appointed lnapector.•.-···-······-······························································ 21
Killinger, Frank R. Jr., Appointed lnapector_................................................................ 21
Knowland, Joseph R .. Appointed Grand Orator................................•........................... 301

L
Laurent, Howard, Appointed Inspector............................................................................ 21
Lecturer, Grand, Report oL.-----···-···--··--·······--········--··············-·--··.'................... 71
Legislative Procedures --·--··--···-·······--·····················--·--·----···············--··········-·· 57
Lehman, Sidney Kramer-In Memoriam.................................................................._ •. 234
Life Memberships
·--·--·--····-······---····--······--···----------·----······-····--··--61, 211
List of Constituent Lodges._______ .................................:.................:..........................-.. 436
List of 1nspectors..._ _ _ _ ..............................:....................................................... _ 457
Lodge Financing Committee......--··-····························--············································ 282
Lodge Financing-Report of Committee.......................................................................... 188
Lodge Financing Committee, 19f8---········································································ 398
Lodges, Alphabetical List of----···········································································-···· 464
Constituent, List of.·------·································'-······--······································· 436
Extinct, List of.
··--·-·························-·-·····································-·········- 477
Foreign Lands, List oL...._·--·-···-·········-············-··-················-··········-·······-..···- 460
Los Angeles Masonic Club House.........................................................:.......................... 185

M
Manbert. Rush, Appointed Inspector................................................................................ 21
Masonic Breakfasts --·-·····---·--··-······················································-················· 119
Masonic Clubhouses ···············-·····················-··-····························································· 24
Masonic Clubhouse, Berkeley-Report of Board Directors.•.....~---······························· 180
Masonic Clubhouse Direc:tors..-·-··-·-··--···--------··········-·············-······················ 402
Masonic Employment Service.---····-··················.-...·················································· 276
Masonic History --········--·····-································································-··············· 281
Masonic History Committee, 1948·-----··-···-··························································· 399
Masonic History Publication Committee, 1948..........................:................................... 400
Masonic Information--··-····-...:-............................................................................ 281
Masonic Information Booldeta..----··-···-·········································--··············-2~. 255
Masonic Information Committee, 1948----·-··············-·······················--······--- 399
Masonic Information-Report of Committee.......- ........................................................ 214
Masonic Homes ·········--····-··-·-····-·······-···-----·--·-··-·-·-···················· 276
Masonic Homes-Background and Development of Rules for Admission.................. 107
Masonic Homes Board Increase.._................................................................................... 255
Masonic Homes Endowment Board.---··········-·························-··················-··········· 277
Masonic Homes Endowment Board, Report oL..........................................~ ............. 122
Masonic History, Report of Committee...·-·--·----······················································· 139
Masonic Magazines, Report of Special Committee........................................................ 135
Masonic Memorial Temple.·---··--··--··-----······························-····--················· 287
Masonic Temple Association, Report of.............................................................~........... 121
Membership -······-·--·--····-··-·--·-··························································-----··· 58
Memorials
--··-····························-············-········-······--126. 353
Memorial Building Committee, 1948._.................................................................;,.__ 400
Memorial Temple, Report of CAmmittee........................................................................ 152
Message of The Grand Master
···········-···-······-············-··········-········-····- 16
Meudell Lodge Instituted April 3, 19f8-....................................................................... 23

477

Meyer, Ellsworth, Elected Deputy Grand Master..................................................... _ 3~1
Mileage Payments and Registration................---··························································· 4 3
Minimum Dues .................................................................................................................... 262
Monday, October 11, 1948

~~:=ns~:~~~n--~==~~~~~·.:::::::·.::::~~:::::~~~~~~~~~~:~~:~~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~

Monthly Audit ·······--········--·············-············································································ 263
Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481 Dedaion...---·····-···············-·····-·······················-······· 30
Myers, Philip N., Appointed Grand Standard Bearer.................................................. 301

N
Necrology Committee--Report of.__._....................................................................... 225

Elf~~~~~~~-~::::~~:~:-~~~=~~=:~~:~~:; 1!

Nintey-Ninth Annual Communication.................-.......................................................... 7
North East Lodge No. 266 Temple Destroyed by Fire......................................~ .....25, 284
Northrop, Russell, Appointed Inspector--·················:..........................................__ 21

0

~~a~~~==~~~~:~~~;.-~:~~~ ffi

Oliphant, Henry D .• Reappointed Assistant Grand Secretary.....................................• 301
Ortleib, Martin, Appointed Inapector·-············--········-··-···-··························-········ 21
Open Installations --·····-···-································-····················································-··· 254

p
Paintings of Past Grand Masten.---·-··········--···--·----························--······- 26
Palm Springs Lodge No. 693 Constituted November 1, 1947.................................... 21
Past Grand Masters, Present.--------···-··-·---·-··-··-····-····--··················--····· 8
Past Masters of Constituent Lodges-In Memorlum.................................................... 236
Patton Fund -------·------·--···-·······-························································· 53
Paulsen• Arthur• Elected Senior Grand Warden..---······················-·-····················-· 301
397
Pay of Members Committee, 1948
---·--·-------------·---·--··-------·--···-------··-·-··Pay of Members-Report of Committee.......................................................................... 217
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 Dedaion....---······················:·····-·····-····························- 2 ~
Per Capita Cost of Homes
...................................................................... 0
Permanent Monthly Audit of Accounts.....................................•.................·-·······-·-··- 271
Pettus Bible ····-···--·--·-··-·····----·-······························-···················-~-·-·········· 26
PHueger, Paul A., Appointed Assistant Grand T.reasurer............................................ 301
Plumb, Max A., Appointed Senior Grand Steward........................................................ ~01
Policy and General Purposes, Report of Committee...................................................... ~~
Policy and General Purposes Committee, 1948-·-··············--·····-···················-···········
Ponderosa Lodge Instituted Aug. 6, 1948..•........·-····························-···················--···· 23

1

3

~~~t~a~~~· ~=~~mu:=-----::.-.-.-.-.~.-.-~_._._._._._._._-~_._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::: 2~~
Portrait of Incoming Grand Muter-·····--·-······················-··-··········-·-····················.. ·· 274
Portraits of Preceding Grand Mastera.............................................................................. 274
Public Installations
·-··························--·····-······-··················-··············· :;
Public Schools Week, Report of.....-................. ·-······-·······-~·-··-

478

INDEX

INDEX

Page

Page
Public Schools Week Committee, 1948--------··----·-··-···-· 399
Publication Masonic History, Report of Committee-····-···········-····-..····················• 139

R
~eagor, W. Paul, Appointed Grand Cbaplaln..-..·····--···········-·············-·············-·· 301

R:~=~~~a~i~~~r~lgG~~n~-···-·--··-································--··············· 250

Recommendations by Grand Mas
............................................................................Recommendation ofyPainter for ter..·-·-···.............................................................._

73

41

~~-::: ~~ ~==?===========~==~:~-= ~

R e~ation and Mileage Payments-·-····..··-······....._ ..,..................- ................. __ 403
R:!mb::::~s of·s;;;-;cJ;·~f-Rdkl.........................................................._ .................._ 117
Reimbursement of Ex nses of
·--···-···-·--·····---........................................___ 276
Relief of r ......___
pe
lnspec:tors.••- ......- ....................., ...........- ...-···-··-- 275
R .
~---··-···-·-···-·-···-···-----················-·-····-·-··---·-----·- 259
R::,~~~~:~equ1rement Reduction.............................................................................-46. 261
44
To Incr;;;;R;fr-;~h;;;;~t·P~--·-··--···-·-··················--44
Plaque for Western Star Loci e N~-i··-

~~~~----···-··---~---··-.:..

........................................- ...·····--····--

!~

...===::.-::==::::::::::=::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::
Residence Requlre-;;~t-R~d~ctt~-·-·---··-··--··-·-····-····· ................................._ 46
p
....._ .........................._...................................... 46

p~~~~a;:s~!l~~~~~a Temple·--·--·······-----·-···-···--·········-····..·-··-·-··..·- !~

Officers Coach _

......_.......................- .......................____.....................................................................................................................

Reso~~:~i::ti~ Equt;;~~·t··==:::::::::=:::::_~::::=::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

210
Resolution, Arthur S. Crites, Past Gra~d Master
__ ...................-.,..-6",
Resolutions Presented
.......................................................... 299
246
Retirement Plan, Repo;t·-;i·s...........~~tt;··
Return of Funds b Grand pedal
......._ ..~.............................................. l33
Returns Ccmmi~Report ~------·---·-···..-- ..-··--··-·-····-·-..·····-- 273
Returns Commtttee 1~8
.
- - - - - - · - - · - - - - · - 213
Revision of SectlO~
398
Ritual Comm!
----·
·-·-··---..----·--·--·-- 267
Ritual
·R;;,";t··~f........................- -......-_................................................... 73
Ritual Committee, Special R
" ; ; [ - - - - -· - - - - - - - - ··---- - - 248
Ritual Committee 1
eport
··-·--------···-·-····-------'---·- 157
Report of Committee~--··-·····-··--·····-···-····--··-··-·······--·-············----.:. 399

............................................................

7'!L_.:_----·-----·---·----···-·..······--·..··-····-··..·-·..-·......_

Com.mi::::.

Accounts ..........- .............................................................................................._......... 121
By-Laws ·-··-·····-···············-.....
208

Qi®~~l~~~~~~~~~~~i ill
Saint Elmo Lodge_._
· .............................................. 219
William D. Stephens
220
Bixby Knolls Lodge_ _ve--..........................................-............................... 220
Ponderosa Lod e
-··-....................·---·····-·····-·····-····--··..- 220
Centennial ~;;;;:=::::::::::::::::::::::········.................................................. 221
Columbia
Reatoratl
.......................................................... 153

Loi"................................................................................

T-•-

00.-···-..................................................................... 197

479

Report of Committee on-( Continued)
History and Pia&...----··-----~·-··-·······-··--··········-·-·..~-···-- 197
Plans and SpedkatiOlll..---··-·-···-..···..···..................................................... 201
List of Proposed Purnisblnga....----·····..·····..-·.....................................:··-· 201
Proposed Plan for Future tfse·-·--·---···········-··-··..-·..............................- 202
Resolution of California State Park CommiMion.......- ............................- 205
Constitution Month ()bservance.-·---·--··---·····---··-·····..········...............- 177
Correspondence
-·--·········.........---·- --···-- 145
Index to ~
·--·-·...·············-·--·---..-·---········--..· - 148
Foreign Freemasonry
······--············-···..·--········-··-·····..-···- 149
Statistics
-······--··-·-··-··--··-...~..----- 150
Anniversary of U. S. Grand Lodges___.......................---·---..........- ........- 151
Credentials
-----··---·····-·-····-·-···---··-·······-·-···-··-·- 208
De Molay
-··--·--·-··-················-··-··········-··-····-···-- 137
Finance
· · - -----··-·~·-·-··...:..........---···-····..·-···-·..·- · - 271
Audit of Acxounta ---···-·-··-·········-...................................................:- 271
Permanent Monthly Audit of Accounts..........................................................- 271
Report of Grand Treasurer.......- ...................................................................... 272
Report of Grand Secretarr---···---··-.......................:.......- .................._.. 272
Traveling Expenses of Grand Master.................................- ...................- - 272
Return of Funds by Grand Master.................................................·-·•-···- 273
Grand Master's Stenographic Service.........................-----..···..·······-···-- 273
Portrait of Grand Mutu---··-·---·--····..............................-..................- 273
Portrait of Incoming Grand Muter.................................- ........- ...............274
Portraits of Preceding Grand Masters...- .......................................- - - - · - 274
Recommendation of Painter for Portraits....-····--·-·-··----..···--··-···-·--· 274
Traveling Expenses Grand Lecturer and Assistants.................................-- 275
Reimbursement of Expenses of lnapectors....................- ...............-·-·-·- 275
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief•.....- .................- ............· -·······-·..- - 276
Masonic Employment Service-..-·----.......................................- - - - 276
Board of Coatrol---···----·--··-·----···············--·········-·-·..··-·····-··-- 276
Masonic Homes---·--···-----·····..······-·---···---··---..- - · - 276
Masonic Homes Endowment Board.......- ....................---················-···- 277
University of California Club Houses..-..................................................- 278
Committee on Public Schools Week..--·····-·······-··-····-··-·-·-··--··- 279
Committee on Constitution Month Observance............................................- 279
Grand Lodge Activities Week.-·-·-·--·-···-···....................--·---··-·- 280
Committee on ~--··..··--···············-·······-·-···-··..··-·..· - · - 280
Masonic History
·
--·-·····--·---·-·-·--··- 281
Masonic Information - - - - · - · · · · · - - · · - · · - - · - · - - - - · - - - 281
Social Security and Unemployment Tu...•.- ...........;........- - - - - - · - 282
Lodge Plmmdng Committee.---·······················..··········---··········-·····--- 282
Committee co Charters----····....................~.........................................-. 282
Sotoyome Lodge No. tn
-----··---·-..···--··--·--- 283
Gravel Range Lodge No. 9
, ·----..
__ 283
Georgetown Lodge No. 25---···············-·-·-·--·--·---~ 284
Northeast Lodge No. $
, ....- ..........:.........................---··-·-·-·-- 284
Advances for Other furttdk'tkms .........- ..................................- ..- ..-···-· 285
Office Equipment •
--···-----··-··-··
· - 286
Committee on Pay of Members--···················..·······.........-··-···-·····-····-- 286
Unpaid Grand Lodge o.tl
-··----·--····----············-·-·····-·- 286
George Washington Masonic National Memorial...-.................................. 286
iaQ1
.....................- · - 287
Masonic Memorial
Columbia Temple RatoratklG..-· --········-···············--·..····-·-··············- 288

n1

480

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Report of Committee on-(Continued)
Plaque for W estem Star Lodge No. 2-·-·-·················- ································- 289
Centennial Arrangements ······-·-·--- ···················--··································-· 289
Salaries -·--·····-·····-- - -- - ··- ···············-····································· 290
Expenses of Grand Tiler and Grand Organist.-............................................ 291
Expenditures, No Appropriations Made·---········-·················---·······- ········· 291
Grand Lodge Reaervea.._····--···-- ·····-·······-··--·-··-·················-·········-··············· 291
Schedule of Raervea..·- - ················--······-···············-·······················-·-·······- 292
Grand Lodge Per Capita...•.............................................................................. _ 293
Budget for 194S..19'i9- .-······-··-·-····---············-··-····- ·-········-························-- 294

-----==~~::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::: ~~~

Free::;rafu
Grievances -··
- -·····-·-··-············-·······-············-·- ·--·-··········-·---·······-·· 160
Homes Admissions and Appllcat1008..- .................................................·- ·········-···- 106
Jurisdiction ...
·····-····-·-········-··-··························-·-·····-···········-····--····· 159
Jurisprudence - - · · ····-·-··········--··········-··-·-·······-----···----·-·-···-·-·-····-····-····--··-·-······ 264
Lodge Financing - ----···-·-----·-··-·---···-···-···--·-···-··-··-···--··--····---·········--···---··--- 188
Masonic Information - · · · -······---···----···--··---------·····-··---···············---··-··················· 214
Masonic History · -- - -······-·--·····--·········-·- ·············--····-············---·············- ---·-· 139
Masonic History Publication_....................................................•-·-···········---·····--··· 139
Memorial Temple - ·--·-·---····------····--······---··-···--····--- ········-······--···········-··--·-···· 152
Necrology ___
-·-············-·········----··--···-·-····'··········---·----··-··- -··----·········· 225
Memorial Service ---···--······--·-··-·----··---·-·-··-··----·--·-·····--······-········- -···-···--····· 225
Posper Albert Saingea..·-···---~---···--·-··--··-·········-·······-····-·--······-·--···-····-······-······· 226
Henry Clay McMaster_···----···---····--·············--·-······-····---·-····------····-····--··--·-··· 227
James Bertram McLeea......·----···--·····--·--···-···-··----···-··········---····--···-·--·····-·-······· 228

~~'!:rmKr~;r~:-.:...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::=::::::::::::=:::::::::::~::::::::: ~~6

Arthur M. Joel
- ..............................-................................................... 230
Ezra W. IJecota.__--····---·····--···-·-···········----·-·---·:...................................... 217
Pay of MemberL-....
····-··-·············--·····-··-···- ···-··-······-····--·--······-- -·· 217
Policy and General Purpoeea._-·-··--····--·-----··········--·-···-·····--·········------·-·· 250
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodgea.- ...................................................... 250
Grand Lodge l.Luda Mexl.cana.......__···--····-·---·-··---··--·-·------··-·-·-·--··--··--····· 250
Grand Lodge Francisco De Paula Santander.·-·--··········----·-············-·---····--··-· 251
Grand Lodge of the State of Cara.._- ·- ···--···-----····-·····-·······-··'·-··--·-·-·· 251
Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul_............................................ 252
Grand Lodge of Finland._ ......_______ __ _ _________________________________________ 252
George Washington Masonic National Memorial......................................... 253
Open Installations - - - - - · - - - - - -···-····-··························--········· 254
Refreshment Fund Increase
············---··············-·········-··················· 254
Masonic Homes Board lnc,reaae- · ·--·-···-····-·--···-·-··-··············- ··········-·-·····-·· 255
Study of Trial Procedure
............................................_..................... 255
Masonic Information Booklets............- ............................................................ 255
Twenty~flve Year Buttoaa._·-·-·····----·--·-··-··············--·····-······-------·····-·--··--· 256
Grand Lodge Incorporation.._..................................____________________________________ 257

8:~;b=~~i:~::: : : : : : : : :=: : : : : ::~~:: : : : : : : : :=: : : : : : : : ~~i

Columbia Temple Reataratloa..•._____________........................,........................- ......• 259

::~~a ~!::tel---·-·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
0

Residence Requirement Reductton.........................-......................................... 261
Grand Lodge Magazine· -····-··-··-··-···--····-······- ·-·····--······---···--·····-····-··· 261

481
Page

Report of Committee on-(Continued)

~~:!!~::· ~rtraita_::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::=:=:::=:::::::::::::: ~~~
W estem Star Plaque.................................---···-------·-·--·····-···-··----···--~-·-·--··- 262
Assistant Grand Treaaurer·-·····-·--·-·-·-·-----·-··----·--·-·······,-··-···--···-····--·····-- 263
2

Publi:~:~~lsA~:~.=::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::== ~~
Ritual Committee ·- · · -·--···----·······------------·----··-··--··········--·-··---···-··----··----·····- ········ 248
Officers Coach ·- ··-·······--··---············----·-··--··········--·-····-·----·--····-··-·-·---·--······------ 248
Stereopticon Equipment ·-·---··-·····-------···--··················--·------········--··-----·-···-·-- 249
Masonic Information Booklet.................................................................-----·-- 249
Ritual Committee - - ·- ·-·-··-·---·---··-················--··----···----····-----····---···---·-··-··--·-·-·--· 157
Returns · · - - ···- ·----·-·-·---··········-------··-···········----·-·-···-·-----··---····-··--·-·--·-------·-···-·· 213
Segregation -----··········---··--··············- ··················----···---···-·····-·-··-·-···-·-·"'·-.,- 81
Report of Board of ControL.............----··----~---··--·········---··---·--------·--·-··--- 115

~~;:~~I=~~~tf~~~~i~;~~g i i

Report of Board of Directors Masonic Clubhouse, BerkeleY-·---··----·····--········-····-··--··· 180
Report of Contributions to Endowment Fund.·----·-··- ·---·-·····-----·-··-···---- -····-·· 343

Repol~~!~~~~a~:;;~-=.=::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::=::= ~~

- ~::~:==~? ·:_~::::: : : : : : : : : : =: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::::::::::::::::::: :· ~!
Report of Grand Secretary-

··---·---·--·-·····-········--··-···-·-------··········-·-···--·-·--------· 272

~=~~~~lJiE~!;~:: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :::::::: ~~
2

Grand Lodge General Pund..•••••.·-··----·-·······-·····'·····-·--·······-····-··--------- .....··53
Wadleigh Endowment Fund-..................................................- --·--··-·······- - · - - 53

~:t%e: ~=~r~~~~~-·:-..=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::: ~~
United States Savings Bonds
-- - - -········--··-·-··--··-- ·······-··-···-·-··- 54
United States Treasuries and Savings Bonda-.........................................._________ 55
Report of Masonic Homes Endowment BoanL..·-·····--····-······--····---·--···--··--··-·---·-----··· 122
- -----·---·-·····················-·-·-·-···----·-··-·- 126
Contributions Through Lodges

~:=~~nb~~ti~--~:=::::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : =: : : : : : : : : : : :=: : : : =: : : : : : : : ~~~

Honorable Mention - - ·-·-········
···-············-··-··-··-·- ··- ·····--·--· 127
Report of the Masonic Temple Association of California.•............................•...••.........• 121 _
Report of Superintendent-Covina Home__....•....·-··········---···--·--······-----··---··-···---··- -- 103
Report of Superintendent-Decota Home...-·-·-······---··········--··---········-·····-·····--·······- 100
Report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes................................................................ 95

E~:~ ~-~~=:~~;~~~~~~~:~ E
7

Report Superintendent Decota Home·-·······--·····-··--·--- ·····-··········---·-·--·-·· 100

482

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Number of Residents of Home&.-··-····--·······-·····--··----·--··-···-·--- 103
Per Capita CoaL.
-····-······-·----·--·-·--······-- 103
Report of Superintendent Covina Home-······"·····-··------·--····-···-····- 103
Report of Special Committee on:

~:::::n~:~=i~~;~:===~~=:==~~:::~:~=:::==~=:::::::::::::::::=::::::=::::=:::::::::::::= ~~~

George Washington Masonic National Memorial.•........................·-···········-·-·- 129
Taxation Committee ---··-·--······-······-·····-··-·····················-·-·············-········· 158
Rodger, William T., Appointed lmpector.-·--···········-····-----·-···-·····- 21

s
Saint Elmo Lodge Instituted May 18, 1948----··········--········-·--···-·····-- 23
Salaries -··-······-·-······-·····················-·······································································-·····- 290
~an Antonio Lodge No. 694 Constituted December 13, 1947........................................ 21
chools of lmtruction....____________________.....---·····- - ----···-······--···-··-- 73

~~~::~ 1:~-~~~---·-·--·······-··------·-···----·······- 83

..__ _ -··············-···-········-··-···········-····--········--·-····--- 291
Secretary, Grand, Report oL-·---·-···········-···--·-··-···-·------·-··--· - - 57
Segregation Committee, Report of---····--············-········-····- · - - · -······· · - - 81
Service, Devotional -····································································································· 8
Sessions of Grand Lodge:
7
44

483
Page

"The Three Levels of Masonry"
Very Rev. J.M. Malloch,
Grand Chaplain -·····-···-··--······························-··-·············-··························-··· 8
Thursday, October 14, 1948
Morning Session ···-········-··············································-·············-·-·······-··-········· 246
Afternoon Session -············--····-····-··············-························-···········-·············· 257
Tmie for Inspectors' Reporta..........---···-----····················-~---·-·························· 268
Traveling Expenses Grand Lecturer and Assistants...................................................... 275
Traveling Expenses of Grand Master·-··-····-····-···-·····-·-·······-····-··················-·· 272
Travelers Lodge No. 692 Constituted November 15, 1947_·····································-· 21
Treasurer, Grand, Report of..---·····················-········----·-·-············-·········-·-·-- 50
Trial Records-Report of Grand Secretarv---····-···················-·-·-··········-··-···-·--·- 65
Grievance Committee 00.•••••••--···················· ··············---··············-······-·-· · - 161
Trustees of Masonic HOllles.•-·-·-···························-···-·-··········-·············--··.39• 401
Trustees of Masonic Homes, Report of..............·-·················-----·-···-····---· 95
Tuesday, October 12, 1948
Morning Session -··--······························································---·-·········-···· 122
Afternoon Session ---···············································-···········-···--··-··-·----·-·-···- 158
Twenty-five Year ButtonL..•.............................-·····································-··-·····-·····-46. 256

u
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues.--···-············································--·-··--····-···-··286
United States Savings Bonds.....·-·····-···--·······················-·······--··-····-·-··---·-··- 54
United States Treasuries and Savings Bonds......................·-·-···········-···--·---- 55
Unity Lodge, No. 368, Dechion.--···-·-···········-················-·····-···-··-··--·--··-······ 29
University of California Oubhousea................-·-··············-··········-····-- - - - - -- 278

v
Siems, Edward H.-Elected Grand Muter..·-··········-··········-···-·--····-·----···- 301
Siems, Ted R., Appointed Grand Sword Bearer-·······--·--········-·-·················--_: 301
Sketch-Background and Development of Rules for Admission to Masonic Homes 107
Social Security and Unemployment Tu.......·-·-· -··-·····-·282
Social Security and Unemployment Tax Committee, 1948...·-·····-----··--- 400
$ otoyome Lodge No. 123----·
- - · - - - - - - · · - · - - 283
Special Committees -···-·--···-··············-··-·-····-··········-····-····-······--··-····················- 399
Spedal Committee on Grand Lodge Ritual..._·-·--··--··-·· · 400
Special Report of Ritual Committee.---·-·-··-·····--·--------·-·--·--·= 157
Special Communications-Grand Master's Meuage.......·-·-----··-··---.-... 24
Standing Committees, 1948--- - - - · · · · - - - - - - - - · ·
397
~ta~ti~ -···--·······-·-···········-·····················-·······-···-··········-·····--·····- ··-··- 150
tu y o Trial Procedure..-.---···-···········-·-····...:.···---····--·-·--· - 255
Stereopticon Equipment --···-····....,·---·--·--··-·····-A 249

T
Taxation
Committee,
Report of·-·----·--·-··------·---··-·-·-- 158
T
I
R
e egrams eceived -·---··········-·····-········-······-············-······-···
43
~e~egram-Past Grand Master Randolph V. Whiting._____
246
Te !er~ ~ted ·································-····························-····-··--····················-····-··-····- 300
Tempe
ge, No. 14, Dedslon...---··---······--·-···-···-··-·-·-···-- 30
~s~entary CGifts ····-:r-······-····-··-···-····································-···-······-······-······-·-· 126
e asonic itizen in oday's WorlL....-·····--··-------··---···-····-·_
75

:::::::::::::::::::::::::=

Van Tassell, Elmer Glen, Appointed Inspector-·-············-···-····--·--·-·--- - 21
Veritas Lodge, No. 640, Dedaion...........--··········-··············-··-··-·-·-··-····-----· 28
Visitations -----·-··-····--····--·········-······-····-·····-·····-····---- -··--···· · - - 59
Visitations and Travels-Grand Master's Message---·-----······-····················· 16
Von Konsky, Walter H. E ., Appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer-···················-······· 301

w
Wadleigh Fund -···-··-···-·-······-·······-··---··-·······--·--······-···············-·-- 53
Wakeman, Raymond P.• Appointed Junior Grand Deacon.......................................... 301
Walker, Robert N., Appointed Impector.-..-··-·-······-···········-······-····-·········--··-· 21
Warlow, Chester Harvey-Biography of·--·---··········--·--················---l
Warren, Arthur M., Re-elected Grand Lecturer.·-···-·--···-····-···················--···-··-· 301
Washington, George, Masonic National Memorial---·---·······-···········-··- 286
Washington, George, Masonic Memorial Report of Special Committee.................. 129
Wayne, Halman L., Appointed Inspector-----···················--··-····-··-····-··· 21
Wednesday, October 13, 1948
Morning Session ·······-··---······-·-···---······-························-··········-············· 208
Wentz, Stanley Hurst, Appointed Inspector.-......:........·-·······-·-···-········-············-·· 21
Western Star Lodge No. 2 Plaque.·-··-·······-··················-··························.45, 262, 289, 296
Wilson, Lloyd E., Re-elected Grand Secretary-.......................................................... 301
Wollenberg, Judge Albert C., Grand Orator·-······················-···-····················-····--· 75
Wood, Leslie E., Eulogy by..- - - - - - - - · · - - - - - - · · · - · - · - - - 234
Wm. D. Stephens Lodge Instituted June 19, 1948---·-···-·--·················-·····-·····-·-··· 23

y
Yolo Lodge No. 81, Temple Dedicated April 16, 1948-····--···-····-····-··--··-····---·· 24
York Lodge, No. 423, Decision..........·-·-·-·-···-···- ·-·-··················-············-·-······ 31

