Earl Warren
Grand Muter 1935-1936

EARL WARRE~

Grand Master 1935

Earl Warren is the aixty-ninth Grand Master of Masons in California.
On November bt. 1919, he was raised to the sublime degree of Master
MaS(>n in Sequoia Lo(\ge .N o. 349, at Oakland. He was appointe!J a Steward
of that Lodge in 1922 and tm; Junior Deacon in 1924; Senior Deacon in
1925, and was thereafter elected as Junior Warden in 1926; Senior Warden
in 1927; and Master in 1928. He ttltYed the Lodge as Marshal in 1929. From
1928 to 1933 he served as a member of various committees of Grand Lod~.
He was elected Senior Grand War.Sen in 1933; Deputy Grand Master in
1934 ~ t Grand Master in 1935. He is a member (32") of Oakland Bodies
Z Scottish Rite, A. and A. S. Jt, and of Aahmes Temple, A.A.0.N.M.S.,
" served as Potentate of. the Te9lpte in 1933-4.
The for~going Masonic record • l .. r indicates tbtt, from the beginof his Masonic career, Brother Warren has shown a keen interest in
our ancient and honorable fraternity.
He was born at Lot Angeles March 19, 1891, and received his elementary and high school education In the public schools of Bakersfield. In 1912
he was graduated from the Uuivtt$ity of California. He receh•ed the degree
oi '" Doctor from the University of California School of Jurisprudence
in 191.f, and was thereupon admitted to the practice of the Jaw. He has
achreved OUt$tanding success at the bar, but hta greatest success was in his
on October 14, 1925, to Nina E . Meyers, a beautiful woman of
rare grace and mental attainments who is lond by a multitude of friends.
The Warrens have six children: three boys and three girls. and their home
life is ideally happy.
Our retiriiir Grand Master entered the aervice of the United States
army on Septattber 7, 1917, being originally a119igned to the 36Jrd Infantry
Qf the Nmety-fir11t Division at Camp Lewis, Washington. He was honorably diatharged as a Lieutenant on December 9, 1918. On his return to
civil Hfe, he at once became active in the public service. From January to
\I 1 . 1919, he was Clerk of the Judiciary Committee of the Assembly in the
~•r L~lature. From October, 1919, to May, 1920, he served as Deputy
Attorney of the City of Oakland. In May, 1920, he was appointed
~ty l>ia.trict Attorney of Alameda county and served in that capacity
•ftdl January. 1925, when he was appointed District Attorney of that
couitty, which office he has held. since that time, having been three timea
elected. In 1931-1 he was President of the District Attorneys'· Association
of C•liforni&, and. since his retirement from the presidency of that organization, has served as its sec~tary. He is koown throughout the United States
as an outatanding, fearless public officer, who performs the duties of his
office without fear or favor.
In addition to hls duties as District AttorMy of Alameda c011nty1 hie
has been Chairman of tM: Board of Managers of the State Bureau of
Criminal Investigation and Identification since 1927. He is also Research
A•ociate of the Bureau of Public Administration of the University of
California. ·
Ftom the above sketch we can see that, from the time he entered the
n ice of his country during the World War up to the present time, he
• s devoted himself to the public service and particularly to the cause of
enforcement. In this field he has carried into practical effect the p.rinbf Free Masonry, which have been his guiding star.

Earl Warren
Grand Master 1935-1936

R E

Grand Ma•ler 1955

Earl Warren is the sixty-ninth Grand Master of Masons in California.
On November 1st, 1919, he was raised to the sublime degree of Master
Mason in Sequoia Lodge No. 349, at Oakland. He was appointed a Steward
of that Lodge in 1922 and 1923; Junior Deacon in 1924; Senior Deacon in
1925; and was thereafter elected as Junior Warden in 1926; Senior Warden
in 1927; and Master in 1928. He served the Lodge as Marshal in 1929. From
1928 to 1933 he served as a member of various committees of Grand Lodge.
He was elected Senior Grand Warden in 1933; Deputy Grand Master in
1934; and Grand Master in 1935. He is a member (32°) of Oakland Bodies
No. 2, Scottish Rite, A. and A. S. R., and of Aahmes Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S.,
having served as Potentate of the Temple in 1933-4.
The foregoing Masonic record closely indicates that, from the beginning of his Masonic career, Brother Warren has shown a keen interest in
our ancient and honorable fraternity.
He was born at Los Angeles March 19, 1891, and received his elementary and high school education in the public schools of Bakersfield. In 1912
he was graduated from the University of California. He received the degree
of Juris Doctor from the University of California School of Jurisprudence
in 1914, and was thereupon admitted to the practice of the law. He has
achieved outstanding success at the bar, but his greatest success was in his
marriage on October 14, 1925, to Nina E. Meyers, a beautiful woman of
rare grace and mental attainments who is loved by a multitude of friends.
The Warrens have six children: three boys and three girls, and their home
life is ideally happy.
Our retiring Grand Master entered the service of the United States
army on September 7, 1917, being originally assigned to the 363rd Infantry
of the Ninety-first Division at Camp Lewis, Washington. He was honorably discharged as a Lieutenant on December 9, 1918. On his return to
civil life, he at once became active in the public service. From January to
May, 1919, he was Clerk of the Judiciary Committee of the Assembly in the
State Legislature. From October, 1919, to May, 1920, he served as Deputy
City Attorney of the City of Oakland. In May, 1920, he was appointed
Deputy District Attorney of Alameda county and served in that capacity
until January, 1925, when he was appointed District Attorney of that
county, which office he has held since that time, having been three times
elected. In 1931-2 he was President of the District Attorneys' Association
of California, and, since his retirement from the presidency of that organization, has served as its secretary. He is known throughout the United States
as an outstanding, fearless public officer, who performs the duties of his
office without fear or favor.
In addition to his duties as District Attorney of Alameda county, he
has been Chairman of the Board of Managers of the State Bureau of
Criminal Investigation and Identification since 1927. He is also Research
Associate of the Bureau of Public Administration of the U niversity of
California.
From the above sketch we can see that, from the time he entered the
service of his country during the World War up to the present time, he
has devoted himself to the public service and particularly to the cause of
law enforcement. In this field he has carried into practical effect the principles of Free Masonry, which have been his guiding star.

~ranb JLobge of <!California
I, JoHN WmcHER, Grand Secretary of the M.'.W.'. Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby
certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the
proceedings of that body at its Eighty-seventh Annual Communication,
commenced at the city of San Francisco on Tuesday, the th_ir teenth day of
October, A. L. 5936, and terminated on F riday, the sixteenth day of October, A. L. 5936.

11n ~e.utimonp mlbereof
I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed
the seal of the Grand Lodge of
the jurisdiction of California, at
the office of the Grand Secretary,
in the city of San Francisco, this
twenty-fourth day of October, in
the year of Light, Five Thousand
Nine Hundred and T hirty six.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M.·. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree anb ~ccepteb :$Masons
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Eighty-Seventh Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 13, A. D. 1936, A. L. 5936
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 16, A. D. 1936, A. L. 5936

SAN FRANCISCO
A. F. Heuer, 509 Sansome Street
1936

GRAND LODGE
.

OF

.

jfree anb ~ccepteb masons
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

....

Eighty-se'Venth Annual Communication

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced its eightyseventh Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, Van
Ness Avenue and Oak Street, San Francisco, on Tuesday, October
13, A. L. 5936, at 10 o'clock A. M.
The roll call disclosed the presence of the following:

Officers of Grand Lodge

w.·. EARL WARREN ............................................................_ _ .......... Grand Master
R.'. w:. ROLLIE W. M n:,LER ..................... :............................... .Deputy Grand Master
R.' . w:. JAMES T. FRASER............................. - .........................Senior Grand Warden

M.'.

R.'. W.'. LEON 0. WHITSELL................................................... Junior Grand .Warde11

v. ·. w. ·.WILLIAM P. F1LMER............................................................Grand Treasurer
v.·. w.·. JOH N WHICHER ............................................. ..............- .....Grand S ecretary
v.·; w.·. LESLJE E. WooD......................................................................Grand Lecturer
w.·. ALBERT F. Ross ......:................................................................... Grand Orator
w.·. FRANK G. HoB BS ................................................Assistant Gra11d Secretary
w.·. HE NRY G. MATHEWSO N........................................................Grand Marshal
w. ·.GORDON Ross..............................................................Grand Standard B earer
w. ·.CHAS. LrsTENWALTER......................:.........................,.Grand Sword B earer
w. ·. HARRY HOR NE..................................................................Grand Bible B earer
W. ·.ALBERT C. W oLLENBERG..............................................S enior Grand Deacon
W. •• CYRJL W. McCLEAN ................................................... .lunior Grand Deacon
W. ·.HAROLD W. C oNKLIN .. ~ .............................................Senior

Grand S teward
D. GILL,. .............................................................. Grand Pursuivant
w.·. CHAS. E. A NDKRSON .......................... ....................................Grand Organist
w. '. FRANK G. W ATSON ........................................................................Grand Tiler
W. ·.WARREN

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND J;..ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Masters

Eli B. Trago, extending her personal appreciation to the Grand
Lodge for all the many courtesies extended to her and her children at the passing of her well-beloved husband.

M: ..w:. ORRIN s. HENDERsoN
M:. w:. DANA R. WELLER
M:. w:. WILLIAM P. FILMER
M:. w:. JOHN D. MURPHEY
M:. w:. BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE
M:. w:. WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
M:. w:. BRADFORD WEBSTER
M:. w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M:. w:. SAMUELE. BURKE
M:. w:. WILLIAM A. SHERMAN

M:. w:. ARTHUR s. CRITEs
M:. w:. ALBERT E. BOYNTON
M:. w:. GEORGE L. JoNEs
M:. w:. WILL H. FISCHER
M:. w:. CHAS. M. WOLLENBERG
M:. w:. JoHN STEWART Ross
M:. w:. ROBERT B. GAYLORD

w:. FRANK w. MIXTER
M:. w:. JAMES B. GIST
M:. w:. RANDOLPH v. WHITING
M.'.

And 1602 'officers and representatives from 577 chartered
Lodges.
The Grand Master filled the vacant places by the following
appointments :
Grand Chaplain, Rev. Dr. Harold Camp.
Junior Grand Steward, Rudofph Jennie.
Grievance Committee, William B. Ogden.

And Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
Distinguished Visitors Present
Christian Henry Fischer, Grand Master of Masons in Utah.
Sam H . Goodwin, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Utah.
Phillip M. Streit, Grand Inspector, Grand Lodge of Ireland in China.

Veterans Introduced
The Grand Master then presented the following veteran
brethren: Bernard Borach, Secretary of Yolo Lodge No. 81,
who has served as an officer of a Lodge since 1888 and has served
for many years as Secretary of Yolo Lodge; John L. Sullivan,
who. was born May 7, 1848, in Illinois, came to San Francisco in
April of .1854; was made a Master Mason in Columbia Lodge
No. 28 in 1872 and served as Secretary for that Lodge for one
year. Later withdrew and served Welcome Lodge No. 255 as
Secretary and subsequently as Master; affiliated with Hanford
Lodge ~o. 279 in 1894 and was Tiler of that Lodge for twenty
years._ .
Joel 0. Wilder, now in his 87th year; raised in Union Lodge
No. 58 Nov .. 15, 1871; was appointed Tiler December, 1883, and
served in that capacity consecutively to this date. Charles K.
Tuttlei Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331; the oldest Inspector in the
jtitisdiction.
These veteran brethren were received with great acclaim.
Messages of greeting were received from Past Grand Master
Keesling; Frank K. Ebbitt, our Representative near the Grand
.Lodge of Canada; from E. J. Hudson, Representative from the
Gran·d Lodge of Scotland; and a letter was also read from Mrs.

9

Devotional Service
THE MASONIC UNIVERSE

By Harold Camp, D. D.
Masonry conceives the Sovereign Mind of the universe as the Great
Architect and Supreme Builder with whom we, as Masons, work together
for the building of the Temple of Brotherhood. I want to speak of the
four fundamental classes of things with which the Great Architect works
and with which, under Him, we have to do.
First, the things which never get out of repair.
Second, the things which get out of repair and repair themselves.
Third, the things which get out of repair and can n'ever be repaired.
Fourth, the things which get out of repair and which we, as Masons,
must help to repair.
1. There are things which never get out of repair. They belong to the
perfect mechanism of the universe; the coming and going of the great
constellations, the sequences of the seasons, the ebb and flow of the tides,
the ascent of the sap in the trees in the springtime and the descent of the
sap into the roots in the fall, the perfect adjustment of rainfall to sunshine,
of heat to cold, of storm to calm. We live in a universe that never gets
out of repair, the source of boundless cosmic comfort to us all.
2. There are things which get out of repair and repair themselves.
Perhaps you have had the misfortune to break an arm or a leg. You sent
for your physician. He did not pretend that it was his skill to mend those
broken parts, but rather to put them into a position favorable for their own
mending, relying upon the beneficent ministry of nature to repair the
broken parts. Perhaps there has come the time when through strain of
overwork, long continued uninterrupted application to your task, your
nerves have threatened to give way, and to you has come the wise counsel,
"Go off into the woods, or down by the seashore, or back amid the scenes
of your childhoo!l and youth and let the ministry of nature repair your
shattered spirit." And so you have come back with a steady hand and. a
clear mind and a fresh perspective of your task. We all need that ministry
which, when things get out of repair, is the power by which they repair
themselves. There are just three classes of people in the world: people
who have had a nervous breakdown, people who are having a nervous
breakdown, and people who are about to have a nervous breakdown.
3. The things which get out of repair and can never be repaired. It
is one of the supreme purposes of Masonry to keep some things from
getting out of repair, and one is a wasted life. Masonry seeks to hold
before us the vision of the right life, and all the beauty of its symbolism
and the significance of its ritual and the power of its fellowship is to lure
the members of the craft towards the prize of its attainment. One thing
which is the source of continual marvel to every thoughtful life is the
pricelessness of individual personality. Each self is profoundly unique and
infinitely different. No one has ever lived just like you. Each of us has
something to express of the gracious goodness and fullness of the Lord
which none other can express. Each is different, not only physically, but
mentally and spiritually. Once we have wasted the opportunity of life to
fulfill our truest self and to express that unique image of God within our
lives, the opportunity never returns.

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

4. There are things which get out of repair and we must help to repair
them. We live in a world in which things are always getting out of repair.
I shall remind you only of two. One is our friendship as man with man.
It was a great Mason who said, "Above all else let us keep our friendship
in repair." The greatness of Masonry is not in its ritual, impressive as that
ritual is; it is not in its temples, beautiful as those temples are; it is not
in its wealth, vast as that wealth may seem to be. The greatness of
Masonry is in its fellowship. A man must have Masonry in his heart to
understand the true meaning of that friendship which our craft expresses
in its symbols and ceremonies. Most of us know the sorrow of a neglected
friendship of which the poet speaks:
Around the corner I have a friend,
In this great .city that has no end;
Yet days go by and weeks rush on,
And before I know it a year is gone,
And I never see my old friend's face;
For life is a swift and terrible race.
Still he. knows I love him just as well
As in the days I rang his bell
And he rang mine. We were younger then;
And now we are busy, tired menTired with playing a foolish game;
Tired with trying to make a name.
Tomorrow I say I will call on Jim,
Just to show that I'm thinking of him.
But tomorrow comes-and tomorrow goes;
And the distance between us grows and grows.
Around the corner-yet miles away" Here's a telegram, sir!" "Jim-died-today I"
And that's what we get, and deserve, in the end,
Around the corner, a vanished friend.
Fitially, it is the friendship of God which you must keep in repair.
Without God· Masonry could not be. Its origin, its history, its passion, its
future, are all wrap.p ed up in that great word "God." God, out of the
vision of Whom love comes, out of the vision and love ·of Whom service
comes, out of the vision and love and service of Whom character comes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
Brethren of the Grand Lodge:

The · Grand Lodge of California having been opened in Ample Form
for its eighty-seventh annual communication, I -will in obedience to our
Constitution, set forth in this written message, my official acts during the
year, the general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction, and some
recommendations for legislation which to me seem expedient for the welfare of the Craft :
General Condition of Masonry
The year has been an uneventful one if peace and harmony among
the 582 Lodges of the jurisdiction and an almost total lack of unpleasantness can be called uneventful. During the entire year there has not been,
to my knowledge, a serious disagreement between any of the Lodges of
the jurisdiction. No individual Lodge has conducted itself in a manner
to warrant the discipline or censure of the Grand Master. No serious
derelictions of duty or personal misconduct on the part of any officer of
the constituent Lodges has been called to my attention, and but 32 trials
of individual members for Masonic offenses out of a membership of approximately 128,000. I have had many contacts with the inspectors and
officers of our Lodges and have counselled with them on matters of
importance to their Lodges and to Masonry in general, but the nature of
the matters discussed have pertained to Masonic business and policy and
have contained an almost irreducible minimum of unpleasantness. When
I assumed this exalted office one year ago, I did not believe that it was
possible, particularly in troubled times such as the world is now passing
through, for an institution as large as ours to live an entire year with so
little discord as it has been my happy lot to experience, even though that
organization should be guided in all things by the great moral and fraternal principles of Freemasonry. My. experience has · been such as to
teach me that, even among well-intentioned men, the possibility of error,
occasioned by the frailty of human nature and the misunderstandings that
naturally arise from lack of appreciation of the other fellow's point of view
would lead to a larger number of conflicts than· have confronted me. In
passing, may I say that I have not attempted to avoid knowledge of any
such matters if they existed, but, on the contrary, have invited a free
discussion of the problems of the Craft on the part of all concerned. I am
conscious of the fact that this happy condition never could have existed
but for the unselfish devotion to duty on the part of all the officers and
inspectors of Grand Lodge and the officers of the constituent Lodges. To
them I publicly acknowledge my gratitude for the whole-hearted assistance which they have given to me and for the uniform courtesy and
respect which they have shown to the office of Grand Master during my
incumbency.
It is impossible to summarize their numerous activities on this occasion or even to mention •them by name, but I know I will not offend if I
particularly acknowledge with thanks the patient and devoted service of
the grand old man of Masonry, the man who has put more of his life and
imparted more of his character into Masonry in this jurisdiction, than

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

anyone who has ever lived in it---our 81 year young Grand Secretary
John Whicher.

Hawaiian Lodges
It would be difficult for me to describe my feelings as the official representative of· this Grand Lodge while visiting our Loclges in that most
distant part of the jurisdiction, the Hawaiian Islands. It was not only the
great hospitality of those warm-hearted · people that impressed me, nor the
beauties of the shore-line nor the verdure of the Islands; but also the fact
that these little dots in the great Pacific Ocean, which were until almost
within the memory of living men unproductive and untouched by modern
life, are now teeming with the activity of Western civilization and their
people are improving the lot of the man working in the fields and in the
canneries in a m·a nner that would merit emulation on the mainland. And
my greatest satisfaction came from the fact that our Masonic Lodges there
-eight in number--are making a great contribution to this social development and to the spread of our civilization. These Lodges are happy in
their · association with this Grand Lodge. The visit of the Grand Master
with them and the attendance of their inspectors and representatives upon
our communications stimulate their interest and I am profoundly convinced that these eight Lodges, situated as they are and practicing Masonry
as they practice it in these outposts of Western civilization, are of importance to the Masonry of this jurisdiction and of the world far beyond the
weight of their numbers.

Visitations
For me the year has been one filled with a succession of delightful
experiences, the greatest of which were the contacts made with the· brethren
during my official visitations in all parts of the jurisdiction. From the
semi-tropical Imperial Valley to th.e glaciers on Mount Shasta, and from
the rugged mountains of -the Mother Lode to the paradise of flowers in
the Hawaiian Islands, I found the same fraternal spirit, the same warm
hospitalit,Y, and the same love for our ancient Craft. While I appreciate
the fact that the uncommon courtesy and hospitality shown to me was of
an official rather than a personal nature, still I must admit to you that
it filled me with great pride and satis.fa,ction to be so honored, and I shall
never forget it. .
I .regret that it was not possible ·f or me to visit every Lodge in the
jurisdiftion, but that is a physical impossibility. I have, however, done
my best to sit in some Lodge room in every part of the state. I h·a d
hoped to make an officfal visitation to every· Masonic District outside o.f
the larger cities and, up to a very recent date, believed that this objective
would, be accomplished. As the year ends, however, I must acknowledg·e
that I have fallen short of the mark and that the pleasure of meeting with
some of you has been denied me. It is unfortunate that time and circumstances did not permit these visitations, but I want you to know that I
had them constantly in mind, and that I shall never be satisfied until I
have visited the brethren in these districts, even though it may be long
after I have left the oriental chair.
My visitations in the .larger cities have been comparatf~ely few, but
I kno":' that .l?Y brethre1J. will understand when I ·explain that my entire
Masonic career has been spent in and around metropolitan Lodges and
that I have had heretofore very little opportunity to visit in the· more
distant parts of the jurisdiction. My decision ·to visit mainly in the nonmetropoJitan districts was therefore partly from a selfish desire to ~an·t ·
to know these Lodges better, and pa1 tly . from a conviction that the real
s.trens:th o~ Masonry lies in its univer~ality. Masonry would mean very
htt~e m this or any .other jurisdictiOn if it were confined .to . the metropolitan areas. Its trtie strength can only be appreeiated 'when we urider:sta~d t~at it is to be found in every nook and corner of our state:-when
we ·realrze . that, rio mat~er where we go, we can find some one who is
doing hi.s best to live according to Masonic principles, who is endeavoring
to spread ·Masonic light throughout the sphere ·of his influence and who
is waiting at all times to extend the · hand of fellowship and, when necessa~y, the. hand of relief to those of our Craft who pass his way. The
thmgs that J le.ar:ned about the devotion of Masons in remote districts of
our i?r~sdidi?n - made a · profound and lasting impression upon me. My
association with.. the• Masons of the Mother Lode' district ..alone was suffi.
cient compensation tQ· me· for ·a ny effort I may have expended as Grand
Master. When l think of the trials and tribulations our brethren have ·
und_erw<>ne to preserve ou~'".institutions in this original cradle :o f Masonry
during the _years after many,.,gf the communities in which our Lodges had
b~~n constituted were reduced by the decline . of mining from prosperous
cthe,s t? ghost t_ow~s, I have a gre.ater faith in the fun.d_a mental principles
of Masonry which impel meµ , to be steadfast and to carry on unselfishly
for the benefit of others. It gives me more confidence in the integrity of
human nature. It leaves me with greater assurances for the future of our
'state, and our nation.
·

13

Inter-jurisdictional Contacts
Our contacts with our sister iurisdictions throughout the country have
been most pleasant, and I am happy to report that not a single incident
has occurred during the year to disturb the cordial relations with these
jurisdictions which we prize ·so highly. I was surprised at the' small number
of instances in which we contact the other jurisdictions, both domestic and
foreign, and as a result I have given c9nsiderable thought to the question
as to whethe.r or riot we have made a serious mistake in fail.i ng to keep
up our Masonic .c orrespondence and to publish our conclusions 't herefrortj
in the Annual Pr6ce~dings. In this day and age, when world affairs change
so rapidly, it is difficult at best for the average person to keep abreast of
the times and, ·unless we know what is .h appening MasoniCally in othet
parts of-the world, our Masonic horizon is being limited day by day. TM
officers of the Lpdges to whom we look for the education of our novitiates
wouid· have difficulty today in obtaining ari accurate and composite' picture
of Masonry throughout · the world because there are no documents or auth'e nticated publications in this jurisdiction available to them. If we do
not know what is happening to Masonry and what it is · doin11 throughout
the· world, we cannot know in whiCh direction we «ire traveling. If we do
not know whither we are traveling, we are but groping in darkness. We
concern ourselves with -Masonic education, 'and particularly with the education of those who have been recently admitted to the Craft, but · in
neglecting our· relations with other jurisdictions are we not at the same
time depriving them· and those who could teach them of- the most valuable
:
information that could be made available?
I am informed that the cost of incorporating the report of the Maso.nic
. Correspondence Committee; including the preparation·, of ·the material and
the printing thereof; on the :basis heretofore followed would not exceed
one thousand dollars. i therefore recoommend· that provision be made for
rehabilitating the Correspondence Committee and that an adequate appropriation be made for gathering the material and publishing the same in
the· Annual Proceedings.
· The most important contact that I h~v·e· had with our sister jurisdic-

14

~

-

.

is

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tions was through the Grand Masters' Conference at Washington, D. C.
There I had the opportunity to meet with thirty-nine Grand Masters and
representatives from most of the other jurisdictions of the country. To
meet these brethren was a rare privilege and at the Conference subjects
which were both interesting and instructive were discussed with candor.

~i them. In other words, if Grand Lodge proposes to remedy the evil, it
should do so by taking some definite action which will effectively prohibit
the illegal enterprises rather than to discipline our brethren fo~ participating in them. I am convinced that- the brethren who are promoting these
enterprises are not actuated by any selfish desire for personal gain, but are
acting under the mistaken belief, that they are promoting t he best interests
of their organizations and that the Grand Lodge of California is not particularly interested therein notwithstanding its regulation against illegal
gambling. Unless I am greatly mistaken, if Grand Lodge should adopt a
definite policy on this subject and ena_ct legislation which would insure
its effectiveness, these brethren would conform to such regulat ions as
cheerfully as they do to other Masonic rules of conduct. Thus the evil
would be remedied and no brother would be injured. This, in my opinion,
can best be accomplished by giving to the Grand Master, the authority
during the interim between Grand Lodge communications to abate illegal
gambling enterprises through the summary suspension of all persons actively engaged therein, subject of course to the ultimate action of ~rand
Lodge. To that end I recommend that this Communication enact the
necessary le.gislation to effectively enforce its regulation against gambling
in a manner that is not burdensome or expensive to the Lodges of th·e
jurisdiction or misleading to the brethren engaged therein. On the other
hand, irr the event that Grand Lodge does not desire to take such action,
I recomme11d that it repeal the present regulation agah1st gambling in
order that it shall not continue to remain uninforced to the embarrassment
of Grand Lodge and of future Grand Masters.

Gambling
The question most seriously discussed and the one in which there was
absolute unanimity of opinion was the growing evil of lotteries and· other
illegal gambling enterprises sponsored by Master Masons to secure funds
for the use of organizations collateral to Masonry. I trust it is not necessary for me to say in this gathering that every Grand Master who
expressed himself on the subject did so in opposition to all illegal gambling
conducted by or in the name of Masonry, ostensibly or otherwise. In
answer to a direct question as to what the situation was in this jurisdiction, I was embarrassed to admit that, although the conduct of such enterprises has been declared to be unmasonic conduct (Ross Digest, Sec. 387),
in recent years the rule of Grand Lodge has been honored more in the
breach than in the observance-that within the last four years two Grand
Masters have made strong recommendations for the proper handling of
such matters, but that no definite action has been taken by Grand Lodge
or Grand Masters, including myself to enforce our anti-gambling regulations. This was not a pleasant admission to make, but it is the truth.
Perhaps the.re will be those who disapprove of these gambling enterprises,
but who believe that the remedy of expulsion for unmasonic conduct which
now exists in the Lodge of the offender is sufficient. With these I am
constrained to disagree, because in all of the instances that have come to
my attention, our constituent Lodges as such are not concerned. I have
not had called to my attention a single instance where any one of those
Lodges has offended in this regard. Whenever an illegal gambling enterprise of this character is engaged in, hundreds of Master Masons. are
induced to lay themselves open to Masonic trial. To discipline all of them
would be impossible from the standpoint of time and expense as well as
from other considerations. To discipline less than all the participants
would be considered discrimination against those who are tried and favoritism toward those who are not tried.
It is not the duty of the individual Lodges acting independently of
each other, to assume the responsibility of solving a problem of such jurisdictionally wide concern. It is the responsibility of Grand Lodge. In the
past, correspondence between Grand Masters and participants in these
enterprises has ended in humiliation of the Grand Master and in a loss of
prestige to Grand Lodge. For this result Grand Lodge is largely responsible because it has not been decisive in its action. In making this observation, I assume a fair share of that responsibility. During the past year,
to my knowledge several of these illegal enterprises have been promoted
in the jurisdiction, and for which hundreds of our brethren could have
been disciplined had I seen fit to direct that they be tried in the constituent
Lodges which claim them as members but which had nothing to do with
the illeg~I enterprise. It may be that I have been negligent in failing to
take action to that end as some few Grand Masters have done in their
jurisdictions with varying results. However I desire to say in defense of
what might be considered unjustifiable inaction that in my opinion it is
the illegal gambling enterprises which are offe~sive 'to the good na:ne of
Masonry rather than the brothers who have, through the complacency of
Grand Lodge, been lulled into a false sense of security in the promotion

Submtssion of Proposed Legislation and Grand Master's Decisions
While discussing proposed legislation, it might be proper to add that
on May 20th I address·e d a letter to the constituent Lodges advising them
of my intention to submit to their Grand Lodge representatives prior to
this communication all proposed legislation coming to my hands before
. a certain date and inviting their suggestions. I was pleased with the
response and you were furnished on August 12th wit~ printed copies of
the legislation proposed up to that date which incidentally, was all that
has been submitted to me up to the present time. Also on September 25~h
I mailed to you copies of the decisions which I am submitting herewith
for. the consideration of Grand Lodge. T'hese decisions I shall not read to
you because you h;we had ample opportunity to familiarize yourselves
with them. As you can well imagine there were many other opinions
requested, but because they were neither matters of first impression nor
of .g eneral interest, they were answered by me i~formally or t.h rough the
office of the Grand Secretary upon the _authority of prior decisi9ns. I have
furnished this and other information concerning t'he l?usiness and machinery of Grand· Lodge to the members because I believe that it filled a
real need in this jurisdiction. I have felt for a long time that the members
of Grand Lodge, and particularly the new member s thereof have not had
sufficient information prior to the communication to enable them to -make
themselves articulate and' to participate int elligently in the affairs of Grand
Lodge. I believe it is our duty te give all available information to the·
Representatives considerably in advance of the communication. This I
have endeavored to do and i-t>elieve that if the practice is continued it
will result in greater interest on the part of our representatives and better
considered legislation on the part of Grand Lodge. I recommend no
legislation on this subject because it would be impossible .of enforcement.
Legislation can be submited up to and including the sessions of Grand
Lodge, and it would perhaps be inadvisable to limit this right by statute,

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

·but I do believe that an understanding of the position of the representatives to Grand Lodge, together with .their rights and duties in connection
. ·with the enactment of legislation should induce those who have measures to
propose fo "give notice to the Grand Master, and he to the members at the
earliest convenient date.
·

taining .her majority. In the other case a lodge had been requested by a brother
to receive and hold certain securities· for a period of seventy-five years, using
the interest thereon to maintain a cemetery plot in which the brother's family
was buried.
I answered as follows :
"A Masonic Lodge is not empowered under our Constitution to act
as trustee. The appointment of . trustees by a lodge is authorized by Section 87 of our Constituti1m, which provides that such trustees shall also
be under th~ control of the lodge and that their duties shall be to 'control, hold, mortgage, sell and otherwise dispose of its property and funds.'
Nowhere does either the· Constitution or the Masonic law. expressly a11thorize trustees of a lodge to act as trustees for individual brethren. Circumstances might arise which would make the interests o.f the lodge incompatible with the duties of the trustees, if the latter should also assume
·
to act as trustees for individual. brethren.
"Furthermore, the faithful performance ·of the duties of trustees for
a lodge entails the expenditure of considerable time on the part of brothers
who are appointed and consent to ad as such without compensation, and
the imposition upon them of the additional duty of carrying out individual trusts would be, in many cases, unfair and onerous.''
Accordingly, I ruled that in neither case could the lodge or its trustees
accept the trust.

16

My decisions above referred to follow:
Decisions
I.
In re ·Section 192 of Constitution:
. A brother was convicted of the crime denounced by Section 288 of the
Penal Code of California; after conviction he was granted probation for a
period of five years, the first year of which was to be served in the county
jail. I was asked whether upon these facts he was subject to "automatic ex- ·
pulsion" under the ruling of Grand Master Gaylord in 1932 (Ross' Digest,
Section 520d). My .ruling was that he was subject to such automatic expulsion; th~ · constitutional section requires only that the member "be imprisoned
in pursuance" of a conviction of felony. The imprisonment as a condition of
probation was sufficient to bring the case within the terms of the Constitution.
II.
Some time after the death of a Master Mason in good standing hi.s widow
remarried, her second husband not being a member of the craft. Four months
thereafter she was divorced from him. I was asked whether she was entitled
to relief from the lodge of .which her .first husband .had been a memb·er.
I replied that her status as the widow of a Master Mason terminated
when she remarried and that status could not be restored unless her second
marriage was annulle!l. The la.t er 111arriage having been dissolved by divorce,
it did not operate to render her eligible for Masonic relief.
III.
.
.
After the receipt of an application for membership and its reference to
an investigating committee, one of the ~ommittee . reported unfavorably but,
: not noticrtg such unfavorable report, the Master called for a ballot and the
balloting resulted in a unanimously favorable vote. I was asked whether the
result of the ballot cured the inadvertence on the part of the Master.
I replied as follows:
"While it is unfortunate that through inadvertence the Master p~t
the application to a vote and subsequently declared the applicant ele<:te4,
n~vertheless· the Master possessed no greater powers in this regard thap
were conferred ui;ion _him by the Constitution. Section 101 of the Constitution, as you know, is explicit in stating that 'if the report of the committee, or. any member thereof, be unfavorable, no ballot shall be had.'
In 'yiew of the mandate thus expressed, it must be held that the ballot
taken in this case was an absolute nullity and wholly inoperative to admit
the applicant to . membership. I can not hold that the mere failure of the
Brother rendering the unfavorable report to cast an unfavorable vote in
the balloting had .the result. of rendering legal, a procedure expressly prohibited by the Constitution."
·

IV.

Two questio~s wer; a'sked me concernin& the power of~B~ards of Trustees
of lodges to receive funds . and securities in trust for ·certain pur·poses. In one
case· I . was asked whether it was permissible for the .Trustees· of lodge to
.r.eceive .and hold the proceeds of a life insurance policy issued upon the life
of a m~mber1 in trust for the ·member's daughter in accordance with a trust
agreement, during her minority, the pro~eeds to be paid to her upon her at-

a

v.

In each of two cases it appeared that some time prior to the amendment
in 1932 of Section 87 of the Constitution, lodge funds .had been invested in
securities which were not "prescribed as legal . .. for investments by savings banks.'' The question was asked whether it was necessary immediately to
convert those investments into securities which come within the prescribed
class; it appeared that such a conver.sion of ·the investments at the present
time would ent'.lil some loss in the principal of the investment.
I replied as follows :
. . "While Section 87 of the Constitution is not to be construed as requiring the immediate conversion of your investm~nts from building and
loan securities into the type of investment authorized by the constitutional
section (which conversion might entail perhaps the sacrifice of part of
the principal sum), it is desirable that such conversion should be ultimately made. The sale of the building and loan securities should take place
as soon as may be consistent with preserving intact the funds themselves.
· The question· of the proper time to. make .the conversion should be left
to the sound judgment of the ·officers of the lodge who will, with the advice of those of the brethren experienced in such matters, talie into account the. market situation.
. "There is no question, of course, but that under the provisions of
Section 87, all future investments of lodge funds must be confined to
securities which are legal for investment by savings banks.'' .

VI.
A lodge, desiring to recognize the uniq4e and valuable service rendered by
a brother who was the founder and first Master of the lodge, proposed to
confer upon him the title of "Worshipful Ma,!jter Emeritus.'' I ruled that no
express authorization was found-either in ·the Constitution or Uniform Code
of By-Laws-for the conferring of any such title. I stated that to authorize
the conferring of the title would set a precedent which, of course, would be
authority for other. lodges to confer similar titles; and .that, in my opinion, if
this were to be permitted, · it sho~ld be expressly authorized as a matter of
legislation by Grand Lodge and not by fiat of the . Grand Master.

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

VII.
Grand Lodge was asked to dedicate a grammar school. In accordance :with
the long settled custom, I replied that no ceremony of this character had ev~r
been authorized by Grand Lodge as to public buil~ings, but only as to Masomc
Temples. I therefore declined the invitation.

VIII.
The question was raised whether it was necessary that a r_equest for .a
<limit be brought to the attention of the lod~e at a stated meetm~ b~fore it
could be legally granted. I replied that Sect10n 159 of the Constitu~1on and
also Section 4 of Article IX of the Uniform Code of By-Laws reqmred that
the notice be given at a stated meeting and that, accordingly, a <limit granted
without such notice having been given was void.
IX.
I was asked whether a lodge could expend its funds to pay the premi~ms
on a life insurance policy covering a boy now in the Masonic Home at Cov11~a;
the lodge gave as its reasons for asking such ~ermission that "s~ould any!hmg
happen to him while there or at any other time, the lodge might find itself
financially embarrassed to fulfill its obligation to th~ Home," and also suggested that it would be to the advantage to. the lad m later years to. have a
life insurance policy, the premiums upon which would be low due to its having been issued when he was at an early age.
I replied that while the purpose was praisewort~y, I .~out? not ~nd that
the proposed expenditure could legally be m~e, statmg: It 1s certamly .not
contemplated by the present language of Sections 87 and 88 of the Constitution, and in 1897 the Grand Master deci~ed. that a lodge. had no ~uthority to
use its funds to pay assessments on a hfe msurance policy covering a member (Ross' Digest, Sec. 181) ."

x.

I received a request for my opinion as to the legality of a resolution of
a Boa~d of Trustees of a lodge 1 which authorized the withdrawal of funds on
deposit in the name of the boa rd in a bank; the resolution provided for the
"withdrawal of such funds by the !=hairman of the hoard and its secretary,
with the written consent of the treasurer if the sum be not in excess of $50,
but if the amount be more than $50, upon the written authorization of a majo~ity .of the members of the Board of Trustees." ·
I replied as follows:
"It is true that the regular funds of a lodge, comprising receipts from
dues and similar payments, should be kept in the custody :>f ~he treasurer
arid should be deposited under Section 149 of the Constitut10n upon the
order of the Master attested by the secretary; nevertheless a number of
lodges have established boards of trustees to whom is entrusted the management and control of certain properties such as buildings. It was never
contemplated that funds receive~ by the t;ustees in the course of performing their duties should necessarily .be pa1? over to the lodge treasur~r or
secretary. Circumstances frequently reqmre that the money he av~ilable
for disbursement by the trw;tees for taxes and other expenses without
the necessity of counter signatures of the Master and secretary.
"Accordingly, in my opinion, the terms of the resolution set forth in
your letter do not conflict with any Masonic law."

XI.
At the last communication, Grand Lodge authorized the purchase with
lodge funds of pictures of Past Masters; that authorization was made in .a
case where the pictures were "to be placed in a fireproof safe to be used m

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

19

the event the originals were lost." I was asked whether, in view of such action by Grand Lodge, it was now permissible to use lodge funds to purchase
the pictures of Past Masters to be hung in the ante-room of the lodge.
I replied as follows:
"Although the action taken by Grand Lodge at the 1935 communication was limited to the approval of the use of lodge funds to purchase
such pictures where the latter were to be kept in a fireproof safe, it is
sufficient authorization of such expenditures even though the pictures
themselves are to be hung in the ante-room of the lodge. The only reason
for keeping the pictures in a fireproof safe would he for safe preservation,
and the lodge is the best judge of the place in which the pictures should
be permanently kept."

XII.
The following letter, which I sent to the Master of a lodge, states a
question which was asked regarding the proper use of lodge funds and my
reply thereto:
"I have before me your letter of March 18th, 1936, asking whether
it is a proper expenditure of lodge funds to contribute fifteen dollars
thereof to 'the Johnson Chimes Fund' established in memory of a late
departed brother who served for many years as Chaplain.
"The use of lodge funds is regulated by Sections 87, 88, 89, and 90
of our Constitution. The proposed expenditure is, of course, not within
the express terms of any of those sections. Furthermore, the use of lodge
funds has, through the years, been very jealously guarded and restricted
by various decisions in order that such funds may he sufficient at all t1mes
to meet the demands of charity upon the lodge. In 1877 and in 1896 it
was decided that a lodge could not contribute to any charity outside of
the fraternity, even to such an established organization as the Salvation
Army.
"Under the circumstances, while I appreciate the laudable purpose
for which the Johnson Chimes Fund has been established, I hold that
the lodge may not lawfully contribute any of its money to it."

XIII.
I was asked whether the officers of ll lodge, without authority having been
previously obtained from the lodge itself, could expend lodge funds for refreshments, when the proposed expenditures would not exceed the limited per-·
centage allowed, I replied that to answer the question in the affirmative would
be equivalent to handing the officers a blank check upon the lodge funds up
to the amount of the limitation. I referred to the report of the Grand Lodge
Committee on Charters, appearing in Ross' Digest, at p. 405 : "No moneys
(except such as may be disbursed by the charity committee) can legally be
drawn from the treasury· of a lodge without its express consent and under its
instructions." Consequently, I ruled that the officers of the lodge must put
the bills for refreshments and entertainment before the lodge before the same
could be paid.

XIV.
I was asked whether the following lodge expenses should he allocated or
charged to general expenses or to refreshments :
"Printed notices of special events such as ladies' nights, p1cmcs, etc.
"Master and Wardens' expenses at Officer's Club dinner meetings.
"Flowers distributed to the residents of Decoto at the time of our
annual visits."

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I replied as follows : ·
"There can be no doubt that the first item-printed notices-should
properly ·be charged to refreshment. In view of the rulings made by previous Grand Masters, I am of the opinion that the expenses incurred by
the Master and Wardens in attending meetings of officers' associations
is also properly chargeable against the 'refreshment fund.'
"As for the cost of flowers distributed to the residents of the Decoto
Home, this is in the nature of relief and should not, therefore, · be charged
or allocated as expenditures from the 'refreshment fund' authorized by
Section 89 of the Constitution. My views in this respect are in accord
with previous decisions approved by Grand Lodge, appearing in Section
190 of Ross' Digest."

xv.
A situation arose in Pacific Lodge, No. 136, with reference to a separate
relief fund now designated as "General Relief Reserve Fund," which, as stated
in my Jetter to the lodge, may be summarized as follows:
"Prior to 1885 a brother named Montgomery gave to the lodge $10,000 for the purpose of acquiring a building in which to meet. In 1885
Pacific Masonic Hall Association was incorporated and took over the
$10,000, together with such accruals as had accrued up .to that time. The
association continued to own and manage the fund until 1923. The governing board of the association .was a Board of Directors,· all of whom
were members of Pacific Lodge. In 1923 the value of the assets of the
association, consisting of cash and bonds, aggregated almost $39,000.
"In that year the association was dissolved and the assets were placed
in the hands of a Board of Trustees consisting of five members elected
annually by the lodge. This Board of Trustees was established by a standing resolution ·adopted February 6, 1923, Section 1 and 2 of whi~h ~esig­
nated a separate and distinct fund of the lodge to be called the Widows
and Orphans Fund,' and specified that the obj.ect thereof should be the
charitable relief 'of n'eedy widows and orphans of deceased members of
the lodge,' and further 'provided, that only income . arising annually from
investment of the · funds to be received from the Pacific Masonic Hall
Association, and of the accumulations thereto, which may hereafter take
·
place, shall be expended during any one year.'
"In 1925 being advised by the Grand Secretary that under a decision
of the Grand Lodge (Ross' Digest, 183)' the use of" lodge funds could.
not be limited to special· calls for charity for widows . and orphans to the'
exclusion of Master Masons, the standing resolution was amended so as .
to designate the fond as 'General Relief Reserve Fund' and to add to the
persons for whose relief the income from the fund could be used, 'needy,
members.' At that time the above-quoted proviso was changed to read as
follows: 'provided, that this fund shall be drawn upon only on the depletion of the General Fund of Pacific Lodge,· or when in the _judgment'
of a majority of ·the brethren voting at a regular Stated M~tmg, after
thirty days previous notice of such i.ntended action, it is deemed necessar:(·
Since the assets were placed in the hands of the Board of Trustees m
1923 no disbursements have been matle from either ·the principal or the
incoi'ne of the fund with the exception of $1700 expended by authority
of the lodge in 1934 to defray the cost of a Diamond Jubilee celebration;
otherwise the income. has been added to the principal and reinvested. It
may be noted that in 1934 the report of the auditors of the lodge called
attention to the irregularities of· the $1700 expenditure in view of the
terms of the standing resolution,"

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21

It was proposed to amend the standing resolution originally adopted in
1923 so as to provide that 20 per cent of the income of this special fund could
be used for refreshments and the promotion of fraternal intercourse, as those
terms are used in Section 89 of the Constitution, and the proponents suggested
that, if the amendment were adopted, the income already accrued would be
subject to such use.
•
When I was asked for a ruling in ~he matter, I replied as follows:
"In my opinion, when the lodge accepted the funds from the association in 1923 it constituted the acceptance of funds in trust for a proper
specific purpose, within the terms of Section 88 of the Constitution, and it
would be improper to divert any portion of those funds to any purpose
other than relief. Inasmuch as, · up 'to the present time, the accruing income .has been .added to the principal, it is my opinion that such additions are also subject to the limitations upon the original donation made
in 1923. As to the amount of the principal of the fund at the present
time, it would not be proper, even by amendment of the standing resolution, to authorize expenditures for refreshments and the promotion of
fraternal intercourse. It would be proper, by such amendment, to authorize the expenditure of stims for such purposes from income accruing in
the future.
"It is my opinion that the income which has accrued to the fund since
1920, and which I understand has been added to the principal, is not to
be considered as part of the 'total revenue' of the lodge within the meaning of Section 89 of the Constitution a lthough, as I have said, if the resolution is amended now, income accruing in the future may be so considered.''

XVI.
I was asked to approve an amendment · to a standing resolution, which
resolution was adopted according to Section 129 of the Constitution ; the
amendment was to increase the fee for a life membership for $150 to $200.
Before · giving my approval to the amendment I wrote the secretary of the
lodge as follows :
"Life memberships are authorized by Section 129 of the Constitution,
· which sets forth · the steps which must be taken before the requested standing resolution can become effective. One of those steps is that written
notice must be forwarded by maii to every member prior to the stated
meeting at which the resolution is to be considered. While the section does
.. not expressly provide that the standing resolution shall not be amended
until af~r similar notice has been sent, nev,ertheless, in my opinion, the
reasons for requiring the mailing of notices to every member before the
passage of the original standing resolution apply with equal force to the
consideration and passage of any amendment thereto, particularly an
amendment which raises the amount of the fee. Inasmuch as the taking
out of life memberships directly affects the amount of current dues paid
in· yearly by the members, it is a matter that vitally concerns every member of the lodge and the entire membership should be notified before any
change is made in the system of life memberships."

XVII.
I was asked whether or not it would be proper for a lodge to purchase
a building in which to meet, in view of the fact that the lower floor of the
building. was rented to a tenant who was · operating a pool hall and selling
spirituous, vinous, and malt liquors, it being represented that the sale of liquor
had been legally licensed- and was being lawfully conducted. My answer was
in . accord with .the decision of Grand Master Gist ( 1934 Proceedings, pp. 2627).. .. I .replied as follows :

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"While the Constitution does not expressly prohibit a Masonic lodge
from holding regular meetings in a building also occupied by a liquor
selling establishment, nevertheless such a situation would be contrary to
the principles and ideals of the fraternity. The consistent attitude of Masonry toward the saloon is expressed in those sections of our Constitution-89 and 129A-which prohibit the expenditure of lodge funds for
liquor and make ineligible for membership those who are engaged in that
business. I entertain the opinion, therefore, that it would not be proper
for your lodge to consider purchasing the property in question unless and
at the same time the business of selling liquor could be eliminated from the
premises."
XVIII.
The secretary of a lodge wrote me asking for rulings upon the eligibility
for the degrees of two candidates. He stated that the first of these candidates
"works in a local lunch room. While this place serves meals of all kinds this
young man also serves drinks as well as food"; and that the other candidate
"is now employed as a bartender on one of the cross channel steamers."
After quoting Section 129A of the Constitution, I replied as follows:
"This section was adopted in 1912 when saloons and public bars were
legal under the laws of this state. In 1920, with the advent of prohibition, saloons and public bars became outlawed under the 18th Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, and since its repeal that outlawry
has continued under Section 22 of Article XX of the Constitution of
California. The latter section reads in part as follows:
'Intoxicating liquors, other than beers, shall not be consumed, bought,
sold, or otherwise disposed of for consumption on the premises in any
public saloon, public bar y or public barroom within the State; provided,
however, that subject to the aforesaid restriction, all intoxicating liquors
may be kept and may be bought, sold, served and consumed, and otherwise disposed of in any bona-fide hotel, restaurant . . . or other public
eating place, . . . '
"In the determination of the questions which you ask, it must, there. fore, be kept in mind that under the Constitution of this state it is contemplated that there shalt be no public saloons, bars or barrooms in California. It must also be recognized as a fact, however, that this fundamental law has been nullified and that rhe saloon in its worst form and
with all its attendant evils is again with us under the name of 'cocktail
lounge,' 'tavern,' 'buffet,' etc. This has been caused by the total indifference of the Board of Equalization, the liquor authority of the State,
to the clear mandates of the Constitution and the enabling acts of the
Legislature, and we now find many thousands of saloons licensed by the
State Board on the theory that they are bona-fide restaurants. As long
as the State authorities continue thus to ignore the law, it is impossible
for us to decide questions such as those submitted by you, according to
the regulations, pronouncements or licenses emanating from the Board of
Equalization. The character of a liquor dispensary-for the purpose of
deciding the eligibility of its employes for the degrees of Masonry-must
be determined according to the particular facts in any given case. If the
place in question is actually a bona-fide restaurant, the persons serving
the liquor merely as an incident to the service of meals, are not, by reason of their occupation, ineligible for the degrees of Masonry. If, on the
other hand, the person who makes application for the degrees serves liquor
by the drink, other than as an incident to the serving of meals, he is, in
my opiniOI}, ineligible, regardless of the manner of service. In arriving
at this conclusion I make no distinction ·between the serv'ice of either

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

23

food or drinks at or over a counter and the service thereof at tables. The
only distinction I make in this connection is between bona-fide restaurants
and public drinking houses, under whatever name the latter may be mas.querading.
"Under Section 129A of our Masonic Constitution the determination
of whether a particular place of business is a bona-fide r~staurant or a
saloon must of necess+ty be left primarily to the Master and his lodge.
Their conclusions, however, must be in accordance with common experience in such matters, and be sub}ect to review by Grand Lodge. I realize
that it is not always an easy task to distinguish between the two, but it
should be borne in mind that it is the letter and spirit of our law that
bar keepers be not admitted to Masonry. Where there is any doubt as to
the eligibility of an applicant on this score, that doubt should be resolved
in favor of the craft and against the eligibility of the applicant, 'to avert
the shadow of any scandal or reproach against the fraternity.'
"Upon the facts stated in your letters, my answers are that the first
candidate mentioned is not ineligible and that the second candidate is
ineligible."
XIX.
A brother inquired whether or not his occupation as owner of a retail
liquor store with an "off-sale" license affected his standing in the fraternity
under Section 129A of the Constitution. I answered in the following language:
"It is my opinion that that section was directed against the saloon
business and bar keepers ·and not against the retail sale of liquor, where
the liquor is sold ·for consumption other than on the premises and that,
therefore, a brother does not become liable to suspension or expulsion
from the fraternity by reason of his occupation as owner of an establishmen~ i_n the latter class.''.

Special Communications
Because. of e~ten,sive public works progi:ams throughout the State,
Grand Lodge was invited to lay the corner stones of many public buildings,
and wherever conditions conformed to Masonic usage, I was nappy to
comply. Grand Lodge was therefore specially convened on twenty-six
occasions, for the .purposes and at the times and places hereinafter mentioned. In this connection I desire to thank those who participated in the
ceremonies all of which were per.formed in a manner designed to reflect
credit upon the Craft.

By Earl Warren~ Grand Master:
At Oakland on · October 12, 1933, to lay the corner stone of the
Alameda County Court Hou~e.
At Tulelake, Siskiyou County, on November 11, 1935·, to constitute
Canby's Cross Lodge No~ 679.
At Sebastopol, on November 26, 193.5, to lay the corner stone of the
United States Post Office Building.
At Carmel December 6, 1935, to constitute Carmel Lodge No. 680.
At Fresn~· on December 21, 1935, to . lay · the ·c orner stone of the
Fresno Memorial Municipal Auditorium.
·
At Arbuckle on May 22, 1936,· to la·y the corner stone of the Arbuckle
High School.
.
.
.
At Honolulu on August 18, 1936, for the purpose of installing .Broth.e r
Gordon Ross as Grand Standard Bearer.
·

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

By Rollie W. Miller, Deputy Grand Master:
At Huntington Park on November 2, 1935, to lay the corner stone of
the Federal Building.
At Inglewood on November 4, 1935, to lay the corner stone of the
United States Post Office Building.
At Huntington Beach on December 7, 1935, to lay the corner stone
of the United States Post Office Building.
At Anaheim on January 11, 1936, to lay the corner stone of the
Federal Building.
At El Monte on May 22, 1936, to lay the corner stone of the Municipal
Community Building.
At Whittier on June 20, 1936, to lay the corner stone of the Federal
:Buil<ling.
At Montebello on July 25, 1936, to lay the corner stone of the United
States Post Office Building.
At Ventura on September 1, 1936, to lay the corner stone of the United
States Post Office Building.

Masonic Homes Endowment Board
I shall not attempt to report upon the activities of the various committees since our last Communication other than to say that they have
responded to every request made of them. Each committee will make a
report of its own activities for your consideration. In passing, however, it
would only be fair for me to make some comment upon the work of the
Masonic Homes Endowment Board, which has worked so faithfully during
the entire year to build up the fund which all thoughtful Masons consider
to be so important to the welfare of our two greatest charities-the
Masonic Homes at Decoto and Covina. This Board, in spite of its splendid
service, will report contributions somewhat smaller in the aggregate than
have been reported by it in recent years, and it may feel some embarrassment in stating the reason for this fact. But at all events Grand Lodge
should know that it was my action and not that of the board which is
responsible for the result.
For some time I have felt that, during the economic depression through
whic'h we have been passing and from which we have not entirely emerged
at the present time, it is not entirely consistent for Grand Lodge to institute
a drive for funds for any purpose whatsoever, except in the event it should
become necessary for the immediate relief of our distressed brethren. There
has been so much distress on the part of our brethren as a result of
their own unemployment and the dependency of relatives that thousands
are in no position to give to any cause, even to one as worthy as the
endowment of our Masonic Homes. We want our brethren so situated
to attend Masonic Lodges and other gatherings, because it is at such times
when the souls of men are being tried, that tkey need the association of
their brethren and the comfort which they can receive by participating in
our Masonic rites. Men under such circumstances are extremely sensitive,
and are undoubtedly embarrassed when solicited in the Lodge Room or
otherwise for a contribution which they cannot give. If embarrassed in
this regard once, they might remain away from the Lodge during the
period of their lives when they need it most.
I therefore requested the Endowment Board t:iot to authorize any
solicitation of funds, but merely to offer .g enerally the opportunity of
conitributing to those who might feel capable of doing so. With this request
it cheerfully complied. Under the circumstances, the $37,181.00 which will
be reported by the Board, is a splendid accomplishment. Every dollar of
it comes from the hearts of our brethren and without embarrassment to
any one of them. It represents appreciable progre.ss in the accumulation
of our Endowment Fund and the Board may be proud of the manner and
the results of its accomplishment. It is reassuring to know that employment conditions are improving throughout .the jurisdiction, and that tthe
time should soon come when there will be a job for every Master Mason
who needs one. Until that time arrives, I would suggest that Grand Lodge
sponsor no drives for funds other than when necessary for the immediate
relief of distressed brethren and their families.

By George L. Jones, Past Grand Master:
At Roseville on October 26, 1935, to lay the corner stone of the
United States Post Office Building.
By Will H. Fisher, Past Grand Master:
At Los Angeles on January 20, 1936, to install Brother C. E. Listenwaiter as Grand Sword Bearer.
By ChMles M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master:
At Daly City, June 27, 1936, to lay the corner stone· of the Masonic
Temple for Crocker Lodge No. 454.
By Frank W. Mixter, Past Grand Master:
At Lindsay on July 16, 1936, to lay the corner stone of the new City
Hall.
By William P. Filmer, Past Grand Master:
At Daly City on October 3, 1936, to dedicate the Masonic Temple for
Crocker Lodge No. 454.
By Le<>n 0. Whitsell, Jimior Grand Worde11:
At Woodland, February 29, 1936, to lay the corner ston.e of the City
Hall.
By Leslie E. Wood, Grand Lecturer:
At Lakeport, May 2, 1936, to lay the corner stone of the Municipal
Museum.
At Lodi, July 11, 1936, to lay the corner stone of the United States
Post Office Building.
By Harold W. Conklin, Senior Grand Steward:
At Mariposa, May 29, 1936, to lay the corner stone of Mariposa High
School.
By Charles S. Baldwin, InspectOr:
At Cedarville, June 20, 1936, to lay the corner stone of Surprise Valley
Union High School.
By Herman Thode, Inspector:
At Red Bluff, April 30, 1936, to lay the corner stone of the gymnasium of the Union High School.

25

Relief
While on the subject of relief, I should like to report briefly my
observations concerning that important activity of our Crafit. I am convinced tthat the Lodges, acting through Boards of Relief, unemployment
services, and through their own officers, committees and members, have
fully measured up to their Masonic obligations in relieving the distress
of our own brethren and of those sojourning with us.
During the year, there have been three major catastrophes in sister
jurisdictions that seem to call for .a: tender of assistance on our part.

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Accordingly, I offered financial assistance on behalf of this Grand Lodge
to the Grand Jurisdiction of Montana, d~ring its d_estructive earthqua~es,
to the Grand Jurisdiction of Pennsylvama at the time of the devastatmg
winter- floods in that state and to the Grand Jurisdiction of Oregon on
the occasion of the recent widespread fires. All of these Grand Jurisdictions replied with gratitude, but stated that, while assistance was n~t
necessary at the moment in tpe event it became so they would gladly avail
themselves of our fraternal offer. However, the distress in the flooded
districts of Pennsylvania 'was so great that, in my opinion, we were
justified in making a contribution for general relief. Accordingly Grand
Lodge donated $500 to the Red Cross for that purpose.

Grand Lecturer
· Since the death of our late lamented Brother Tom Baker, Grand Lodge
has set up a · new system for teaching the ritual. In doing so it .departed
from its established practice of having a full-time paid Grand Lecturer,· and,
by resolution, delegated this important work to a part-time Gra~d Lecturer
and four unpaid assistants. These brethren have worked faithfully f~r
three years without even the recognition of having the system or their
offices made a part of the Constitution or established by legislation. Their
position is an unsatisfactory one, it not being known by them whether
Grand Lodge intends eventually to make the system permanent or not.
Knowing that this is a subject that is discussed throughout the jurisdiction
and realizing that in any discussion of it on the floor of Grand Lodge, all
the brethren could not ex;>ress themselves, I submitted a questionnaire
to the 1746 Masters and Wardens and to the 121 Inspectors and requested
their opinion on the following questions among others: (1) In your
opinion, is the present system working satisfactoril:i;? and (2) D.o you
believe that the present system should now be mcorporated m the
Constitution? In order that I might have a .frank reply from everyone, I
stated that it would not be necessary to sign the questionnaire, but merely
to return it to me filled out and with any remarks that might be considered pertinent. In order that we might know whether or not there
was any difference of opinion as between metropolitan and non-metropolitan Lodges, I used different colored stationery to distinguish between
them. For the purposes of this questionnaire, I considered only the three
largest cities as metropqlitan areas.
I received 857 replies, or 45 per cent of the total number sent out.
The answers were as follows: (1) In your opinion is the present system
working satisfactorily? Inspectors metropolitan areas: Yes, 21, No, 4;
Inspectors non-metropolitan areas: Yes, 43, No, 12; Masters and Wardens,
metropolitan areas : Yes, 157, No, 110; Masters and Wardens non-metropolitan areas: Yes, 241, No, 239; Total: Yes, 4?2, No, 365. ~2) Do you
believe t·hat the present system should now be mcorporated m the Constitution? Inspectors, metropolitan areas: Yes, 15, No, 9; Inspectors, nonmetropolitan areas: Yes, 28, No, 23; Masters and Wardens, metropolitan
areas: Yes, 111, No, 154; Masters and Wardens, non-metropolitan areas:
Yes, 136, No, 319; Total: Yes, 290. Total No, 505.
Many of these questionnaires offered suggestions and criticisms which
should be of value in the future. I submit these figures to you for your
information and leave it to your individual judgment what value, j.f any,
they may have in any discussion of the Grand Lecturer system, which
question I also leave with the members of Grand Lodge in the belief that
those who are most intimately connected with the ritualistic work are best
able to work out a satisfactory solution of the problem.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

In connection with this subject, however, my attention has been called
to the fact that the four assistant Grand Lecturers have not been provided
with any sort of regalia. If Grand Lodge decides at this Communication
to continue the present mode of teaching the ritual, manifestly some
provision should be made for proper regalia and proper jewels for those
officers. I therefore recommend that if Grand Lodge maintains the present
system, the Committee on Ritual be instructed to devise a suitable form
of regalia, including jewel, for the Assistant Grand Lecturers, and when
so devised and approved by the Grand Ma·s ter, that the Grand Secretary
be authorized to purchase such aprons and jewels.
Incidentally I also call your attention to another fact respecting the
jewels worn by the officers of Grand Lodge, and that is we have never
officially prescribed the jewels of any other than Grand Master, Past Grand
Master and Past Master. I suggest that this matter also be referred to
the Committee on Ritual for appropriate action.
Public Schools
I note with interest that there was a widespread observance .of our
17th Annual Public Schools Week, and that another Grand Jurisdiction,
Georgia, initiated a similar observance this year. It is also gratifying to
note that as time passes, Public Schools Week is becoming more of a civic
affair than formerly and that greater emphasis is now being placed upon
presenting to the general public a real picture of the activities and school
life of the children rather than upon mere entertainment.
The more I see of life, the more firmly I am convinced that the hope
of the future lies in the education of our youth-not of some children but
of all children-not according to so-called classes of society, but according
to a wisely conceived and efficiently executed plan that will make available
to every child, regardless of his station in life, an equal opportunity to
study, learn, and progress upon his own merits in this complicated and
ever changing world. This can best be done, indeed it can only be done by
a system of free public education. It is for this reason that the Grand
Lodge of California, ever striving as it does, to replace darkness with
light, is so vitally interested in the public schools of our state. One of
the greatest leavening influences in society today is the public school.
It does more to break down distinctions between social and economic
groups and to eliminate class consciousness than any other man-made institution. It offers the strongest proof to the world that "he who is on the
lowest spoke of fortune's wheel may be entitled to our regard." By destroying prejudice and planting reason in its place it prepares the foundation of a liberty loving people for free government, the greatest blessing
that this or any other nation ever had.

Our Country
Brethren, at this critical time in the world's history, we would do well
to offer thanks for the greatest of all free governments-the government
of the United States of America. It is the government which has brought
more opportunity and happiness to the underprivileged of the world than
all others combined. It 'h as been the admiration and the envy of the world
and, for upwards of one hundred and fifty years, not only attracted to our
shores millions of troubled and oppressed people from other parts of the
globe, but also served as an example for other nations to emulate. Country
after country copied our institutions as closely as their foreign background
and conditions would permit, until only a few years ago it appeared to be
inevitable that free government would spread its mantle over the entire
face of the earth. Now conditions are changed and instead of striving

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for liberty, people in other parts of the world are exchanging their freedom
for some form of autocracy. They rarely call these autocracies by the same
name but, regardless of form or name, they are the same thing, in that
they are the opposite of free government and human liberty becomes dead.
Where free government dies, Masonry dies with it, and in all of these
countries today our Lodge rooms are dark, their property has been confiscated, our brethren are persecuted for their beliefs and all men are
denied the freedom of speech, of assemblage, of the press and of religionthose rights, which to Americans and all liberty loving people are the very
essence of life itself. In all of those countries we now find war or .frantic .
preparations for war, civil strife or threatened civil strife, and a mad rush '
of different classes to plant the heel of ruthless government upon the
chests of their weaker neighbors. It is only in those countries where
people have a passion for free government that we find any degree of peace
and contentment, and nowhere on earth is there to be found any greater
measure of those blessings than in this country of ours. Let us love it
and cherish it as we do few other things, and let us pledge the future of
our Masonry to its principles as strongly as did our brethren who did so
much to bring it into being.

The Deputy Grand Master referred the message to the following committee on Segregation:
Fred B. Zimmerman, Roland R. Israel, and William W. Skelton.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

29

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
In presenting my report as Grand Treasurer of the Masonic Homes of
California, I wish to advise this Grand Lodge that never in my recollection
has such difficulty been encountered in the selection of bonds for investment for the Endowment Fund and stocks and bonds in investing for the
Grand Lodge.
Before the appointment of a committee to as~ist the Grand Master and
Grand Treasurer in the selection of investments, many investments were
made of my own selection. The Committee, consisting of such eminent
brethren as P.G.M.'s W. Rhodes Hervey, Arthur S. . Crites and Robert B.
Gaylord, has been most helpful. But, as the financial condition of our country grew more complicated with apparent uncertainties confronting the
market, even the efforts of t'his Committee and the Grand Treasurer were
of such uncertainty that it was finally decided to secure the services of an
adviser whose function is to furnish advice upon the subject of investments.
The services of the Standard Statistics Co., Inc., of New York, were subscribed to at a fee of $750.00 per year. It was then found that the recommendations of this adviser, in order to take advantage of market conditions, were such, that immediate action was necessary, that time was the
essence, that the changing conditions of the market rendered it impossible
to contact the members o"f the Committee in time to make purchases at the
t·hen market price. All members of the Committee waived their individual
opinions in favor of the Standard Statistics .Co., and the recent investments
in the Endowment Fund have been made in accordance with the plan proposed' and purchases made by me on recommendations of the Standard
Statistics Co., at the earliest possible time. Most if not all of these purchases have appreciated in value.

Just how long the present market condition will prevail there is no
conjecture. The fact that heretofore, during a Presidential campaign, bonds
reflected marked uncertainties, is no criterion now as the market price of
many U. S. Government, State and Municipal bonds is slowly increasing.
All bonds recently purchased have required a premium.
Another matter concerning the policy of purchasing securities for our
Endowment Fund. Our present Grand Lodge constitutional regulation prescribes that our investments be made in U . S. Government, State or Municipal bonds. Some of our brethren believe that this regulation should be
changed to include high grade industri~l, public utilities and railroad bonds,
from which we would derive greater revenue. This is referreCl to you without recommendation. ·

31

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

30

Schedule of Assets
JULY 31, 1936

CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1936

General Fund
General Fund

Cash in banks....................................,...........................................................$. 59,803.75

Cash balance, August 1, 1935..................................................................$ 41,965.88
Bonds (at cost): (Market value $104,842.00)

Receipts
From Grand Secretary..............................$ 78,014.73
Bank interest ..............................................
981.44
Bond interest .............................................. 4,757.61
Dividends .................................................... 5,270.12
Total.................................................................. $ 89,023.90
From bonds redeemed:
$ 5,000 San Joaquin Light & Power
Co. 5% ......................................$ 5,188.00
5,000 Southern California Gas Co.
5Yz% ·········································· 5,125.00
11,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric
Co. 5% ...................................... 11,690.00
5,000 Mercantile American Realty
Co. 5% ...................................... 5,125.00
5,000 Brooklyn Edison Co. 5% ........
5,250.00

Total

32,378.00

Total receipts ...................................................:......................

121,401.90

Total cash to account for.................................................... $163,367.78

Disbursements

$ ,6,000 Southern Pacific Railroad Company, first
mortgage 4%, due 1955.................-............:•...$ 5,580.00
10,000 Southern Pacific Company, 4Yz%,
due 1981 ............................................................ 9,565.00
9,000 California Gas & Electric Corp., refunding mortgage 5%, due 1937.......................... 8,550.00
8,000 Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company,
first and collaferal trust 5%, due 1937...... 8,000.00
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., general mortgage 5.%, due 1942.......................................... 4,720.00
3,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., first mortgage
4%, due 1964...................................................... 3,000.00
4,000 California-Oregon Power Co., first mortgage 5Vz%, due 1955...................................... 3,970.00
5,000 Central Arizona Light and Power Company, first mortgage 5%, due 1960............ 4,812.50
10,000 New York Telephone Co., general first
mortgage 4Yz%, due 1939.............................. 10,000.00
9,000 Philadelphia Electric Co., first lien 4Yz%,
due 1967 ............................................................ 8,932.50
5,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District
4%%, due 1962-3-7..........................................
5,120.57
20,100 U. S. A. Treasury Bond 4l4-3J4%,
due 1943-45 ...................................................... 20,156.25
5,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Company 4%
due 1970 ............................................................ 5,100.00

97,506.82

Stocks (At cost):
58,985 shares Masonic Temple Association............$589,600.00
200 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co. first
preferred 5Yz% (market value $5,800.00).... 5,000.00

594,600.00

Total assets ......................................................................

$751,910.57

As per Grand Secretary's report, appropriations,
etc. ····························································-·····················-$ 98,464.03
Purchase of bonds:
$5,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co. 4%, 1970

5,100.00

Total disbursements

$103,564.03

WILLIAM

P . FILMER, Grand Treasurer.

Cash balance, July 31, 1936:
Crocker First National Bank......................................$ 8,080.71
The San Francisco Bank.......................................·-···· 6,968.83
Wells Fargo" Bank and Union Trust Co................. 3,795.80
Bank of America............................................................
408.96
Anglo-California National Bank...·-···········-·············· 40,549.45
Total.......................................................................................... $ 59,803.75

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

32

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469, 1931-32 dues ..............................................$ 239.60
Larchmont Lodge No. 614, 1932-33 dues .................................- ..·..-··'·- 322.95
Humboldt Lodge No. 79, 1933-34 dues ..;...;............................................. 649:50

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY

---

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Complying with the Constitution, I present herewith my twenty-ninth
annual report, giving an account of all moneys received and disbursed by
me within the fiscal year ended July 31, 1936. A detailed and itemized
statement of the disbursements of Grand Lodge has been submitted to
the Finance Committee.
Membership
Gains and losses for the years 1934, 1935 and 1936 are shown in the
following table:
1936
1934
1935
Membership as of July 31st......................................132,3Sl . 129,326 127,728
2,663 .
2,293
Raised . .........................................---·········..················· 1,898
192
Affiliated from other jurisdictions..........................
249
266
Affiliated from California Lodges............................
654
671
682
11
Dual members ............................................................
4
3
Restored ...................:......-............................................
477
580
668
Errors in returns ........................................................
15
12
22
Total gross gain..........................................
Withdrawn .......................................c.:....•...·...•...••.:.....
Suspended non-payment dues .............~...........:.."....
Expelled ................................................................-....
Died ...............................................................................:
Errors in returns ............................;.............................

33

3,247
1,097
4,560
24
1,905
24

3,809
1,109
3,611
22
2,028

44

4,304
1,075
2,691
24
2,091
21

Total gross loss........-.................................. 7,610
Total net loss..."._..............................:..:.....- · 4,363
Dues remitted .............................................. 7,368

6,814
3,005
6,312

5,902
1,598
4,987

Our gross losses in membership in the last five years have been 33,791,
of which 18,027 were by suspensions for non-payment of dues and 9,822
by death. In those five years the Lodges and Grand Lodge have lost
revenue from 31,512 members because of remission of dues.
Cash Receipts Since August 1st
The cash receipts since the close ·o f the fiscal year to September 30th
were as follows:
1935
1934
1936
Grand Lodge General Fund....................$ 66,895.25 $ 68,046.50 $ 69,613.50
Home Maintenance .................................. 92,423.85
91,863.00
92,055.75
Home Building .:........................................ 61,616.40
61,242.00
61,370.50
$25.00 Home fees...................................... 18,475.00
22,575.00
27,625.00
$239,410.50 $243,726.50 $250,664.75
The actual cash in the Treasury General Fund on Sept. 30, 1936, was
$127,306.76.

Concord Lodge No. 117, 1935-36 dues......................................................

$1212.05
416.50

Total..................................................................................................$1628.55
Unpaid Loans
Chowchilla Lodge N o. 485........,.................................................................$ 650.00
Drytown . Lodge No. 174............,..............:...., ............................................. 470.00
Seal Beach Lodge No. 616......,.,................................................................. 350.00
Representatives Appo,inted
Under date of December 17, 1935, the Grand Master caused a commission to be issued to Antonio Otero as Representative · of the Grand
Lodge of California near the trand Lodge of Porto Rico.
January 13, 1936, a like commission was issued to Frank P. Culver as
Representative near the Grand Lodge of Texas.
On rhe above date a commission was issued to Americo Carnicelli as
Representative near the Grand Lodge of the Republic of Colombia.
January 25, 1936, the Grand Master appointed Willard L. Hart as
Representative near the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia.
March 11, 1936, a commission was issued to Juan J. P laza as Representative near the Grand Lodge of Ecuador.
April 7, 1936, V. F . J . Barker was commissioned as Representative
near the Independent National Grand Lodge of France.
Restoration of Charter
On September 30, 1935, Grand Master Whiting arrested the charter
of Acacia Lodge No. 438, LQs. Angeles. The charter was restored June
1, 1936.
Under date of June 11, 1936, the Grand Master approved the proceedings leading to the consolidation of Western Star Lodge No. 2, loca~ed at
Shasta, Siskiyou county, and Clinton Lodge No. 119, located at Igo m the
same county, under t he name and number of Western Star Lodge No. 2.
Fifty-Year Buttons
Following is a list of Brethren who have received their buttons since
the last report :
Lodge
. Name
Raised
Allen, Marcus D. L ..........................Dec. 19, 1885 Delano No. 309
Appley, Judson...................................Feb. 12, 1886 Wasco No. 583
Armbrust, Henry..............................,June 19, 1886 Magnolia No. 242
Ashleigh, Frank Dunett...................Aug. 26, 1885 Montebello No. 451
Bachelder, Isaac Otis........................Sept. 11, 1885 East Gate No. 290
Baer, Henry Simon........................;.. April 26, 1886 West Gate No. 335
Baker, Isaac F ..........................- ...:....Aug. 13, 1886 Lexington No. 104
Baker, Leslie Edward.......................April 10, 1886 Northern Light No. 190
Barbeiro, Joseph Enos~ .................... Oct. 26, 1885 Eden No. 113
Barker, Richard ................................. Sept. 18, 1885 Sequoia No. 349
Bass, John Edward....................,...... May 15, 1886 Janesville No. 232

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Raised
Lodge
Bass, Stephen Shore.......................... May 15, 1886 Janesville No. 232
Bathurst, Edwin William ................ June 13, 1885 Evening St~r No. 186
Bird, Arthur Milton .......................... Dec. 1, 1885 South Gate No. 320
Blum, Albert E...-............................. July 31, 1886 Martinez No. 41
Boivin, Louis Edmond..................... Mar. 18, 1886 . Presidio No. 354
Bone, Charles ...................................•. Aug. 17, 1886 Oriental No. 144
Mariposa No. 24
Boothe, Charles Lemon................... In 1886
Bragg, George Henry.................•..... N ov. 30, 1885 Excelsior No. 166
Burns, Miles Francis ........................ Mar. 5, 1885 Sanger No. 316
Carpenter, John Jacob ...................... Aug. 22, 1885 Mendocino No. 179
Cary, Amzi B ...................................... Aug. 1, 1885 Eden No. 113
Chaplin, David Hogue...................... May 27, 1885 El Centro No. 384
Clements, William A........................ Sept. 19, 1885 Enterprise No. 70
Madera No. 280
Cox, Elmer Henry...........................• In 1885
Cox, Charles Warner ............. ~; .•.- ..:July 29, 1882 Roseville No. 222
Crawford, John Henry........ _..........• Dec.,
1885 East Gate No. 290
Crow, Samuel Eugene ...................... Dec. 19, 1885 Hesperian No. 264
Cushman, Ruggles A ....•.._. ............•... Dec.,
1883 Santa Ana No. 241
Dalton, Frank Norris-.....•................ Oct. 16, 1885 Live Oak No. 61 .
De Vries, Marion............................c•• Sept. 18, 1886 Woodbridge No. 131
Doose, John Christian ...................... May 18, 1885 King Solomon's No. 260
Dunn, Gaylord Rosero-................... May 19, 1886 Carquinez No. 337
Lompoc No. 262
Elkins, Iris Benson. ..........................
FitzGerald, John Joseph ............ - .... May 31; 1886 King Solomon's No. 260
Gosbey, Perley Francis.................... Dec. 10, 1885 Friendship No. 210
Grant, William................................... Feb. 23, 1886 Pacific No. 136
Grim, William Everett.........- .......... Nov.,
1885 Landmark No. 253
Hickey, James B ......- ........................ April 24, 1886 North East No. 266
Southern California No. 278
Hoffman, Marcus Irven................... In 1884
Madera No. 280
Hughes, William Marshal.......•.......
Hutchinson, Edwin Herbert ........... Mar. 24, 1884 Southern California No. 278
Jackson, Harry W •..................- ........ Aug. 31, 1885 Arcata No. 106
Jensen, J oho Charles........................ Feb. 12, 1886 Durant No. 268
Johnson, Carl Frederick................... May 3, 1886 Liberty No. 299
Kane, Alexander........•....................._D~c. 5, 1885 San Pedro No. 332
Keener, William Alexander............ Nov. 14, 1885 Brawl-:y No. 402
Koser, Newton Alexander........~ ...•.. May 30, 1885 Oakland No. 188
Delano No. 309
Kramer, Alexander Sames .............. In 1886
Latimer, Benjamin Griffith ........... Nov. 2, 18R~ King David's No. 209
Lee, (1-"!rles Henrv........................... Nov. 2, i885' Azusa No. 305
Lewis, Thomas James ....... ---··'-~J'.in. 16, 1886 San Diego No. 35
Lightner, Felix................................... Aug. 21, 1885 Evergreen No. 259
McColloms, Willis ........................•... Feb. 6, 1880 Anaheim No. 207 .
McCurdy, Daniel Ross ........ -........... Mar. 3, 1886 Francis K. Shattuck No. 571
Meckel, John W···········-··········-·······Oct. 31, 1885 Trinity No. 27
Mitchell, James W •........................... Feb. 12, 1886 Selma No. 277
Mott, David Wallace_.................... _In 1886
Santa Paula No. 291
Murphy, James J •..........·-····---······Dec. 28, 1885 Snow Mountain No. 271
Neal, George Folger_·················-····Oct. 27, 1884 King Solomon's No. 260
Nichols, William Bates.................... Mar. 1, 1881 Dinuba No. 385
Ogle, Henry !,...,-····-·-·-······-·········Dec.,
1885 Alpha No. 431
Parker, Alexander,_,___ ···········-········Mar. 28, 1885 Evening Star No. 186
Payne, T~as·-····--··--······-··········Aug. ·25, 1885 Silver Gate No. 296
Peacock, William Flint.................... May 18, 1886 Corinthian No. 9
Pessell, George Douglas...........•......Jan. 12, 1883 South Gate No. 320

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Raised
Peyton, Harry E.-...........................• Feb. 3, 1886
Porter, Frank Flint...........................Sept. 5, 1885
Powers, Robert Sutherland............ .]an. 27, 1885
Ready, Russell Wilbert.................... Sept. 25, 1885
Reed, Harry Morton......................... Mar. 20, 1886
Reynolds, Dutton J ........................... Mar. 15, 1882
Robie, Ira Allen................................. Dec. 27, 1885
Rockwell, William H ••....................• Aug. 2, 1884
Smith, Fred George.......................... May 9, 1885
Smith, Henry...........•......................... July 3, 1884
Smith, Thomas ..........- ...................... Nov. 30, 1885
Shorleder, William_..........•...........• Sept. 11, 1886
Stoll, Charles M................ ~ ........ ~....... Mar. 8, 1883
Stuart, Alexander......... _................... Aug. 7, 1883
Sullivan, James W ............................ In 1882
Taylor, George McC!ellan............•.. May 18, 1885
Taylor, William L .............................Nov. 11, 1883
Tegrundy, Herman ........................... Nov. 10, 1885
Titus, Nat Robert .............................. Sept. 12, 1878
Travelli, Joseph ................................• June 16, 1883
Turner, William A .....................•....•. Aug. 15, 1885
Upright, Oscar........•...........•....•...••.... Oct. 9, 1885
Vanderburg, Robert Benton ........... Oct. 31, 1883
Veale, Richard Rains ...........•............ Sept. 19, 1885
Wagner, Charles A. W .................... Nov. 30, 1885
Wark, William Strong..................... Aug. 18, 1885
Waterman, William Henry............. April 14, 1884
Weber, Henry Louis........................ June 3, 1886
White, William Emory....••.............. May 17, 1886
Witman, Harry W •........................... July 6, 1882
Wood, Charles M.....•........................ Mar. 23, 1886
Woods, William ................................ Mar. 13, 1886
Woodworth, Homer A•............•.....•. Sept. 19, 1885
Zaiser, Louis G............•..•.....•..·-··--·Sept. 15, 1885
0

35

Lodge
Fillmore No. 379
Sequoia No. 349
Table Mountain No. 124
Southern California No. 278
San Pedro No. 332
San Bernardino No. 348
Clay No. 101
Anaheim No. 207
Evening Star No. 186
Honolulu No. 409
Hawaiian No. 21
Los Gatos No. 292
Bakersfield No. 224
Pittsburg No. 429
Vacaville No. 134
Excelsior No. 166
Long Beach No. 327
Table Mountain No. 124
San Diego No. 35 ·
Oakdale No. 275
St. Helena No. 93
Southern California No. 278
Long Beach No. 327
Antioch No. 175
Golden Gate No. 30
Long Beach No. 327
Monrovia No. 308
Naval No. 87
Marin No. 191
Oxnard No. 341
Vacaville No. 134
Orosi No. 383
North Butte No. 230
Covenant No. 527

Trial Records
No. 868-A member of Hiram Lodge No. 43. Acquitted October
17, 1935.
No. 869-A member of Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219. Expelled
November 7, 1935. Appeal by the accused.
No. 870-A member of Salinas Lodge No. 204. Acquitted July 19, 1935.
No. 871-A member of Cha~eau Thierry Lodge No. 569. Expelled
November 7, 1935. ·
No. 872-A member of Coronado Lodge No. 441. Expelled December
3, 1935.
No. 873-A member of Silver Cord Lodge No. 505. Expelled October
1, 1935.
. No. 874-A member of Alta Loma Lodge No. 643. Tried by. Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 and expelled November 26, 1935. Appeal by the accused.
No. 875-A member of San Pedro Lodge No. 332. Expelled September 5, 1935.
.
No. 876-A member of Calexico Lodge No. 412. Acquitted February
13, 1935.
No. 877-A member of Bell Lodge No. 483. Expelled December .
5, 1935.

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 878-A ' member of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Expelled December
7, 1935.
.
.
No. 879-A member of San Gabriel Lodge No. 546. Tried by Caledoma
Lodge No. 486 and acquitted January 8, 1936.
No. 880-A member of Acacia Lodge No. 438. Expelled March 3, 1936.
Appeal by the accused.
·
No. 881-A member of . Eden Lodge No. 113. Expelled November
2, 1935.
.
No 882-A member of Howard Lodge No. 37. Expelled March 3, 1936.
No: 883-A member of Mount Davidson Lodge No. 481. Acquitted
March 2, .1936.
No. 884-A member of Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38. Expelled May 5, 1936. ·
No. ·885-A member of Acacia Lodge No. 438. Expelled June 6, 1936.
Appeal by the accused.
No. 886-A member of Speranza ltaliana Lodge No. 219. Suspended
May 6, 1936. ·
Np. 887-A member of University Lodge No. 394. Expelled June
1, 1936.
No. 888-A member of East Gate Lodge No. 290. Expelled June
4, 1936.
No. 889-A member of Mystic Tie Lodge No. 389, Indiana. Expelled
June 16, 1936.
.
No. 890-A member of. Lancaster Lodge No. 437. Expelled May
1, 1936.
No. 891-A member of Mount .Moriah Lodge No. 44. Expelled July
1, 1936.
No. 892-A member of Orange (;rove Lodge No. 293. Expelled July
7, 1936.
No. 893-A member of Euclid Lod~e No. 519. Expelled June 4, 1936.
No. 894-A member of Imperial Lod ge No. 390. Acquitted.
No. 895-A member of Alcatraz ·Lo ·'.ge No. 244. Expelled August
6, 1936.
.
.
No. 896-A member of Colusa Lodge No. 240. Tried by Chico Lodge
No. 111. Suspended.
No. 897-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Expelled September
2, 1936.
No. 898-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled October
4, 1935.
No. 899-A memb.e r of Oxnard Lodge No. 341. Expelled.
No. 480-Petiticin for restoration. A member of West Gate Lodge
No. 335. Expelled October, 1926.
Life Memberships
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life mem·
berships in the following Lodges:
Corinthian No. 9, $112.50; Mount Moriah No. 44, increased to $200;
Mountain View No. 194, $125; Elsinore No. 289, $150; Fullerton No.
339, $200.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master approved the following requests for special dispensations for various purposes:
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Sacramento No. 40;
• Volcano No. 56; Bear Mountain No. 76; Rose's Bar No. 89; St. Helena
No. 93; Russian River No. 181 ; Calistoga No. 233; Hills Ferry No. 236;

GRAND LODGE OF CAL~FORNIA

37

Maxwell No. 288 ; San Fernando No. 343 ; Amity No. 370 ; Fallbrook
No. 371; East Belt No. 391; Fraternity No. 399; Silver Trowel No. 415;
Eagle Rock No. 422; San Dimas No. 428; Standard No. 440; Alta Vista
No. 464; Alexandria No. 531; Dimond No. 603 ; Florence No. 649.
To re-ballot on candidates rejected within twelve months: La Parfaite
Union No. 17; Madison No. 23; Trinity No. 27 (2); Wilmington N ci. 198;
Truth No. 597.
To receive and act upon petitions from members of the Army and Navy
who did not have the requfred residential qualifications: Santa Rosa No. 57;
Schofield No. 443.
Amendments to By-Laws
Increasing fees: Mt. Olive No. 506, to $125; Tujunga No. 592, to $50;
Composite No. 639, to $75.
Decreasing fees: Yolo No. 81, to $30; South San Francisco No. 212, to
$75; Athens No. 228, to $30; Anchor No. 273, to $50; Fullerton No. 339,
to $50; Berkeley No. 363, to $50; Amity No. 370, to $50; Elysian No. 418,
to $50; Fremont No. 497, to $50; Azure No, 533, to $50; Signal No. 543,
to $50; Arcadia No. 547, to $50; Lakeshore No. 551, to $50; Golden City
No. 553, to $50; "Plymouth No. 560, to $50; Alexander Graham Bell No.
595, to $50; Lamanda Park No. 627, to $50; San Clemente No. 671, to $75.
Increasing dues: Glendale No. 544, to $24 (one year only); San Gabriel
No. 546, to $12 ; Atwater No. 622, to $12.
Decreasing dues: Chula Vista No. 626, to $10.
Fixing affiliation fees: Athens No. 228, at $4.50; Wilshire No. 445, at $20.
Decreasing affiliation fe es: Hollywood No. 335, to $1; Amity No. 370,
to $5; Plymouth No. 560, to $1.
Eliminating affiliation fees: Valley Forge No. 587; Tujunga No. 592;
Menorah No. 623; Lamanda Park No. 627.
Changing time of stated meetings: Trinity No. 27; Oakland No. 188;
Selma No. 277 ; Ontario No. 301; East Belt No. 391; Schofield No. 443;
Montebello No. 451; Albert Pike No. 484; Beacon of the West No. 628.
Excepting holidays as stated meeting nights: Union No. 58; Elsinore
No. 289; Silver Trowel No. 415; Montebello No. 451; Roosevelt No. 500;
Euclid No. 519; Henry Morse Stephens No. 541; Point Firmin No. 558;
Florence No. 649.
Providing for change of meeting place: Crocker No. 454; Beacon of the
West No. 628; Los Cerritos No. 674.

Unfinished Business
At the last annual communication the following resolutions were
presented and final consideration thereon was postponed until this year:
To shorten roll-call: That Section 22 of the Constitution be amended
to read as follows:
Sec. 22. Each Lodge represented by a Master, Warden, Past Master,
or Representative duly elected, shall be entitled to one vote.
That Sections 21, 23, 24, 25 be repealed. (Proc. 1935, pp. 418, 575.)
Limitation of relief: To amend the Constitution:
That wherever in the Constitution relief is mentioned, in Sections
90, 163 and others, the clause "insofar as it may do so without serious
injury to itself" be added. (Proc. 1935, p. 575.)
Sec. 90. Where reimbursement is expected, no relief should be extended beyond the amount authorized by the Lodge or the jurisdiction to
which the applicant belongs, except where an emergency exists; and in
emergency cases complete and immediate notice of the emergency, together

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

with an estimate of the amount necessary to relieve should be sent to
such Lodge or jurisdiction for its information or approval. (Proc. 1935,
pp. 573, 575.)
Report of Auditors
To the Finance Committee, Grand Lodge:
In accordance with your instructions, we have completed an audit of
the books of account of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California for
the fiscal year ended July 31, 1936. The following statements are submitted
Exhibit A: Grand Secretary's report of cash receipts and disbursements-General Fund.
Exhibit B: Grand Secretary's analysis of cash received for the account
of Masonic Homes of California.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's report of cash receipts and disbursements-General Fund.
Exhibit D: Grand Treasurer's report of assets on hand July 31, 1936.
The scope of our examination included a verification of total cash
funds received during the fiscal year ended July 31, 1936, from the annual
returns covering the fiscal year 1934-35. Funds received and on hand held
in suspense based upon the annual returns for 1935-36 in amount $6,220.00
were not included in our examination. Total receipts due ·from subordinate
Lodges as per individual annual returns were found to be in proof by
total number of membership, classification of source of revenue, and total
amount of gross revenue received, as evidenced by the recapitulation record
of all subordinate Lodges. Total of all receipts were found accounted for
and the cash received therefrom deposited in bank accounts. Bank accounts
were reconciled and verified, and sufficient examination of detailed vouchers
was made as to satisfy ourselves as to the correctness of the accounting.
The following amounts due Grand Lodge are entered in the books
and covered by notes:
(a) Unpaid dues from annual returns:
Fiscal year 1931-32............·--··········-:··················-···-$ 300.00
Fiscal year 1932-33·-··········-·····-·············,·····-··--······· 322.95.
Fiscal year 1933-34...........·-·················-···········-·····-- 849.50
TotaL..............................................~·-·········-··-······-$1,472.45
(b) Unpaid cash loans:
(due from Lodges Nos. 174-485-616) ...................... l,440.00
TotaL..:..·-··················-·····-································-··-$2,912.45
All dues for the year 1934-35 have been collected as at the date of
this report.
Market values of securities have been determined and set out in total,
Exhibit D.
Subject to the foregoing, we certify that, in our opinion, the attached
statements reflect the financial condition of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.
of California, as at July 31, 1936, and that a proper accounting has been
made of all receipts and disbursements.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL & LAND,
Certified f'ublic Accountants.
By FLOYD G. WEBB.

39

Exhibit A
Report of the Grand Secretary
CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FISCAL YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1936
General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1935.................- .........,...........................•........$ 42,465.88
Dues from Lodges-1935..............................--·····-········-$ 68,432.50
Dues from Lodges-prior years......................................
88.65
Dispensations ..................:...................................-..............
70.00
Charter fees (2) .............- ......~............................................
100.00
Collections from secretaries' and treasurers' bonds.. 1,962.20
Sales of supplies:
Constitutions ....:..............- .......•..•.........$ 2,455.09
Monitors ..................................................
783.72
Lodge dues receipts .....~........................ 1,161.10
Blanks ......................................................
354.05
Small diplomas ......................................
336.92
Large diplomas ......................................
135.50
Past Masters' diplomas........................ 1,006.76
232.00
Card cases, Lodge lists and digests ..
Installation services and proceedings
33.45
Bound volumes and funeral services
75.40
Masonic Law and Custom, sundries
192.25
Miscellaneous, including uniform ac346.00
7,112.24
counting system ......................·-·-····Refutid.s and reimbursements:
Escalon No. 591...................·--·······-···-$
Hiram No. 43.........._........................:.....
No. 144 of Colorado (Henry F.
Teller) ..................................................
San Francisco Board of Relief............
East Bay Board of Relief....................
Los Angeles Board of Relief..............
Compensation insurance ....................

50.00
15.00
28.00
50.00
70.14
30.00
6.00

249.14

Total cash received direct by Granc}. Secretary.............. $ 78,014.73
Cash Received by Grand Treasurer
Bank interest ········································-···-$
981.44
Bond interest ·-··········································· .4,757.61
Dividends ····················v············-············..·· 5,270.12

11,009.17

Bonds redeemed or sold (reported in detail in
Grand Treasurer's statement) .................:..............

32,378.00

43,387.17

Total cash to account for....................................................

$163,867.78

Cash Disbursed Through Grand Secretary's Office
Grand Secretary's office expense :
Salaries paid ·····.·-······-····-··'·······-···-·-·······-··---···· - ' 10,984.92
Rent (one-half) ················································-············ 1,950.00
Postage ............................................................................
409.09

40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Telephone and telegraph..............................................
Supplies and .sundry expense......................................
Office furniture ·········-···················································

Exhibit B

227.62
423.34
117.53 $ 14,112.50

Analysis of Cash Receipts--Masonic Homes
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1936
Per capita tax, 129,326 Master Masons, 1934-35:

Other Grand Lodge expense and appropriations:
Printing and binding....................................................
Printing and binding supplies for sale..............,.....
Sales tax paid on sales of supplies ............................
Postage-shipping supplies ........................................
Salary-Grand Lecturer ..............................................
Expenses-Grand Lecturer and Assistants............
Auditing .............~............................................................
Relief-Order of the Grand Master..........................
Reimbursing Masonic Homes for outside relief
for those not eligible for admittance....................
Expenses-Board of Control .................................:....
Expenses-Public Schools Week..........................- ..
Grand Lodge office rent (one-half) ..........................
Gold buttons-Fifty-year veterans............................
Past Grand Master's portrait.....·-······························
Present for Grand Master............................................
Inspectors' stationery ..................................................
Inspectors' aprons ........................................................
Premium on Secretaries' and Treasurers' bonds....
Expenses-Grand Treasurer ......................................
Salaries-Grand Organist and Grand Tiler............
Donation-American Red Cross ................................
Expense for trial records (Acacia No. 438) ............
Miscellaneous expense ................................................
Appropriations:
Pay of members...........................•......$ 16,440.60
Boards of Relief and Lodges ..........
1,098.64
Employment bureaus ........................ 10,800.00
Traveling expense--Grand Master
3,000.00
Masonic Club houses.......................... 14,000.00
Masonic Endowment Board............ 4,000.00
Grand Lodge Activities Committee.. 2,072.51

41

3,784.82
4,500.13
210.70
409.10
600.00
1,850.17
150.00
5,345.00

(Less Masons whose dues were remitted, 6,312)
For maintenance at 75c................................................$ 92,260.50
For building at 50c........................................................ 61,507.00
Total tax due (based on 1934-35
annual returns) ..............................................$153,767.50
Deduct amol)nt remaining unpaid (Paid in
August, 1936) ..............................................................
148.75

7,415.00
652.79
669.20
1,950.00
405.00
150.00
309.00
368.40
271.92
1,752.22
475.00
300.00
500.00
618.46
252.87

Total collected ........................................................................ $153,618.75
$25.00 initiation tax:
Initiations,
1934-35..........2,413
Affiliations,
1934-35.......... 2'49
E. A. and F. C., 1934-35..........
2
Dual members, 1934-35..........
4
Total......................................2,668 $ 66,700.00
Less:
First three-quarters collected and
reported in 1935 proceedings ........

44,225.00

Balance, fourth quarter 1934-35
collected during 1935-36........................................

22,475.00

Add:

51,411.75

84,351.53

Total disbursements by Grand Secretary.................. $ 98,464.03

First three-quarters 1935-36
collected during 1935-36........................................

51,075.00

Total cash received from fourth quarter 1934-35
and first three-quarters 1935-36..........................

73,550.00

Add:
Cash received for prior year....................................

Cash Disbursed by Grand Treasurer
Purchase of bonds (As per Grand Treasurer's report).............. $ 5,100.00
Total all disbursements.........................:..................................$103,564.03
Cash balance, July 31, 1936:
Funds with Grand Treasurer......................................$ 59,803.75
Funds with Grand Secretary....-................................
500.00 $ 60,303.75

25.00

Total collected ................................................................................... $ 73,575.00
Total cash collected for Masonic Homes and turned
over to the Grand Treasurer.......................................... $227,193.75
JoHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
In submitting my second annual report to this Grand Lodge, I do so
wit.h the full realization of the responsibilities which rest upon the shoulders
of one holding this important office. I regret that I have been unable to
answer all the calls made upon me, as time would not permit; but I take
consolation in the fact that I have faithfully and conscientiously fulfilled the
duties imposed upon me to the best of my ability.
Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller, chairman of the Ritual Committee with the Assistant Grand Lecturers and myself have met four times
during the past year for the purpose of studying the ritual. These meetings
were two day sessions, making eight full days devoted to this work.
Due to the prolonged illness of Oscar L. Harris, Assistant Grand
Lecturer for the northern district, I found it necessary to take over his
work during t'he past year.
Lodges of Instruction have been held for the Inspectors in every district in the jurisdiction (with the exception of the Hawaiian Island group)
at least twice during the year and in many cases four and five visits have
been made. This does not include the Lodge of Instruction held immediately
preceding this .communication of Grand Lodge.
It has been a pleasure to this comdtittee to work with the Inspectors,
who have so generously given of their time and cooperation.

43

the hands of the officers, a .greater uniformity has resulted in the performance of these ceremonies.
. Early in the year, Inspectors' register sheets were furnished all In:,.
spectors. This record is used at the Inspectors' Lodges of Instruction, and
shows where the meetings were held, the degrees worked in and carries the
signature, office and Lodge of each officer attending.
I asked the Inspectors to have these records signed by the officers at
their Lodges of Instruction and immediately forward them to the Assistant
Grand Lecturer in charge of the district.
It is pleasing to note that the majority of Inspectors have· held Lodges
of Instruction for their officers at frequent intervals and that the attendance has been satisfactory.
Death of Oscar L. Harris

In computing the mileage covered in this work, I find that 14,830 miles
have been traveled .d uring the past year. Many visits made to districts in
the metropolitan areas have not been taken into consideration.
In my report last year I mentioned that the expense of this work to
Grand Lodge had totaled less than eighteen hundred dollars. It is again
my pleasure to report that this year our expenses have run slightly over
seventeen hundred dollars.

On July first this committee suffered a severe loss through the death
of brother Osc;ir L. Harris, Assistant Grand Lecturer for the northern
secti?n. Having been sick with tuberculosis for more than a year, the news
of his deat·h was not received with surprise, but with sincere regret and
sorrow. His sunny disposition and pleasing personality won him a host of
friends.
It is not my intention to eulogize Brother Harris in this report but I
cannot refrain from making the statement that his work for this' Grand
Lodge was well done. His was a service of love for the organization in
which he believed so sincerely and completely. His life proved him to be a ·
good man and true Mason. More than this cannot be said of any man. His
passing will be missed more by those who knew him best.
In August the vacancy created by t·he death of Brother Harris was
filled by appointment of Brother Gilbert C. DeForest, who for the past
twelve years has served as Inspector of the sixth district at Redding. As a
splendid ritualist and enjoying a wide acquaintance in the northern section
of the jurisdiction, I am sure his appointment has met with the approval
of the Lodges in his district and that he will merit the same cooperation and
success as did his predecessor.

Condition of Lodges

Visitations

The condition of Lodges generally, seems to be much improved. From
the number of petitions received by some of the Lodges, it would seem
that, so far as Masonry is concerned, the depression is over. A happier and
more optimistic feeling prevails among the officers and members. I trust
that in the anxiety to obtain new members, the Lodges will not relax their
vigilance and that none but good men and true will be conducted through
the doors of our institution. Membership in this fraternity is a privilege ani
honor, not to be accorded all men. We pride ourselves on the quality of our
membership-Let us keep it so.

During the past year I have been privileged to install the officers of
twenty-one of our Lodges and to assist the M. W. Grand Master at the
installation of several others.
Through the courtesy of the Grand Master I had the pleasure of officiating at the corner-stone laying ceremonies of the new post office bui.Jding at
Lod·i and the Lake County Museum at Lakeport.
.
I have been requested to attend many meetings of Lodges and Officers'
Associations and where possible, have accepted. When called upon, I have
endeavored to address the brethren upon subjects, both interesting and instructive. At several of these meetings, questions have been asked, relative
to various Lodge activities, chiefly among them the question, bow to create
a better attendance. To attempt to lay down a fixed set of rules to remedy
this situation would be impossible; but it might be well for Lodge Officers
to bear in mind certain cardinal rules, which if conscientiously followed
will without doubt, cause the members to become more Lodge minded. '
It should be remembered, there are just two directions · in which a
Lodge can go--forward or backward. There is no middle ground on which
it . ca? stand still. I_f it is not progressing and prospering, then it is surely
shppmg back, and 1t would be well to thoroughly investigate, to determine
the cause and make an effort to effect a remedy. In many cases it will be
found that other interests have outbid the Lodge for the attention of its

Mileage and Expense

Supplies
Many of our written ceremonies have, for years been printed on cards
and sheets of paper, to be distributed to the Lodges as needed. As a result
of this, bu.t few Lodges were in possession of all these parts.' To overcome
this condition, and to save the cost of printing so many forms, we compiled
all the :various ceremonies in one booklet, called the Officers' Manual. Three
thousand copies of this booklet were printed and four copies were mailed
to each Lodge. Requests for additional copies came in so fast that; within
two months the supply was exhausted. By placing all this information in

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

members. It is inconceivable that Masonry should be regarded by many
as being in competition with the theatre, the radio and other forms of entertainment, but . the statement is frequently made and seems to be the
favorite alibi when the question of Lodge attendance is mentioned. No
Lodge will run itself; and if the meetings are not properly programmed in
advance, a lack of attendance will be the inevitable result.
Too often a Master gauges the success of his year by the numbe rof his
candidates and feels all that is necessary to ·hold the interest of the members
is to confer one degree after another. There is no denying the fact that
our ritual is one of the most beautiful and important parts of Masonry, and
when properly rendered, inspiring and enlightening to all who witness it. By
it we are enabled to teach the candidate many valuable truths concerning
the fraternity and inform him about those underlying principles, upon which
Masonry is founded. To the candidate, the ritual is the most important of
our functions; for him it is a vehicle, by means of which he becomes a
member of the fraternity. Rightly does he consider it as the means to an
end-the means to enter our fraternity that he might be taught further
about those divine principles, the practice of which has made Masonry lead
the way through the ages, and become a powerful force for good in every
community of the civilized world. But too often, to his disappointment, does
he find that the ritual is the end itself, so far as instruction is concerned.
He is initiated, passed and raised and then apparently forgotten while the
Lodge turns it attention to the next candidate. He comes back a few times
to enjoy the beauties of our degrees, and tiring of the same performance,
soon becomes one of the absentees.
If a theatre should give the same act or show the same picture month
after month, the patrons would soon go elsewhere and the theatre would
go out of business. Yet, some of our Lodges expect the members to come
to the meetings and witness the same degree time after time without complaint. I do not, in any way speak disparagingly of our ritual, for I realize
that without it, Masonry would not long endure ; but we should not overlook the fact t:hat there are other equally important phases, not to be
ignored.
The average man affiliates with the fraternity, not to be joining another Lodge, but to enjoy the fellowship of his brethren and to receive instruction, which he has every right to believe we can give him. I have tecommended to some Lodges that the Master appoint a committee to assist him to
properly program the meetings of his Lodge. This suggestion, where acted
upon has resulted in a more evenly balanced calendar, consisting of entertainment, where fellowship can be enjoyed to the fullest and meetings
where the desire for instruction and enlightenment can be satisfied. I have
received reports from some of these Lodges that the attendance has picked
up remarkably. It does not take an analytical mind to discover, that where
the members are given something worth while to come for, there is no lack
of attendance.
I quote from a letter received from the Master of one of our Lodges :
" ..... Shortly after your visit to our Lodge in April, I adopted the suggestion you gave us, relative to the appointment of a committee from among
the members, to assist me in arranging the meetings of our Lodge."
"This committee has functioned well and the ideas they have advanced
have resulted in more interesting meetings. Our program is varied to suit
the tastes of all ciur members ... although we have not had many candidates so far this year, still I feel we are usefully employing our time in
bringing back to the Lodge many members who have not been in the habit
of attending."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

45

"Our Senior Warden tells me he intends to continue this practice next
year and from the results so far shown, . I am of the opinion that the question of attendance or rather non-attendance in our Lodge has been solved."
I have made the statement many times at Lodge gatherings and I repeat it here; Masonry is not m·ade up of numbers and is not dependent so
much on its large membership as it is upon the quality of the membership.
Masonry needs good men and true if it is to carry on its vast program;
but in receiving the new candidates into our midst, let us not make the mistake of neglecting those who are already carried on our rolls.
I <lo not say that we are paying too much attention to the ritual, but
rather that we are paying too little attention to matters of equal importance.
Conclusion
To the M. W. Grand Master, Brother Earl Warren, I express my deep
appreciation for his many ·c ourtesies throughout the past year and for the
kind of support he has .g iven me in the administration of this office.
I am indebted to the V. W. Grand Secretary, Brother John Whicher
and the members of his office for many favors and offers of assistance.
Working with Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller and the Assistant
Grand Lecturers has been a pleasure not to be forgotten.
I wish to thank the Inspectors and Lodge Officers for their loyal cooperation and to assure them this association has been most pleasant.
In closing, may I say that I truly appreciate the honor conferred upon
me by this Grand Lodge and hope my efforts have shown the confidence
has not been entirely misplaced.
Respectfully submitted,
LESLIE E. Woon, Grand Lecturer.

At 12 :25 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until two o'clock
p. m.

G~AND

46

LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

47

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jn ~ranb l.obge
AFTERNOON SESSION
Tuesday, October 13, 1936.
Grand Lodge was called on at" 2 o'clock p. m., the Grand
Master presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
To ihe M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California:
The committee to whjch was reterred the segregation of the various
matters contained in the address of the Most Worshipful Grand Master reports as . follows:
This morning we were privileged to listen to the reading of the Most
Worshipful Grand Master's Annual Message. This address is a splendid
summary of a year filled with sincerity, understanding and a fraternal
spirit that will be felt for many years to come. It is full of the kindly spirit
of true brotherhood which characterizes the sterling qualities of our Grand
Master.
In studying his address, we realize immediately that the deliberations
of this communication of Grand Lodge have been launched with a message
which will give us determination to carry onward the high ·principles for
which Masonry stands.
The various matters contained in the address will receive the attention
of Grand Lodge through its regular committees, and we therefore recommend that they be segregated and referred as follows:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, we refer the following
portions of the address:
Rehabilitation of the Corres·pondence Committee's Report.
Gambling.
Submission of Proposed Legislation.
Decision IV
Decision VI
Decision IX
Decision XI
Decision XVII
Decision XVIII
Decision XIX
To the Committee on Jurisprudence, we refer all of the Most Worshipful
Grand Master's Decisions.
To the Committee on Finance, we refer following portions of the address:
Rehabilitation of the Correspondence Committee's Report. Relief.
To the Endowment Board, we refer that portion of the address under the
heading:
Masonic Homes Endowment Board.

To the Committee on Ritual, we refer that portion of the address under the
heading:
Grand Lecturer.
In closing this report, the committee desires tc;> com?l.iment the Grand
Master on the conciseness of his report and of his dec1S1on to refe~ proposed legislation and his decisions to t~e ?1-embers of Gran~ Lodge m a~­
vance of the opening of this Commumcatton, and the graciousness of his
manner in the conduct of the affairs of Grand Lodge.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, the brethren of this Jurisdiction express to you their sincere and lasting appreciation.
·
To this committee was also referred the report of the Very Worshipful
Grand Secretary, and 'we recommend the segregation of the several sections of the report as follows:
To the Committee on Finance:
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues.
Unpaid loans.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes: ·
Unfinished business-to shorten roll call.
Limitation of Relief.
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
Restoration of charter.
Life membership.
Dispensations issued.
Unfinished business-to shorten roll call.
To the Committee on Grievances:
· Trial Records.
To the Committee on By-Laws:
Amendments to By~Laws.
We have carefully studied the complete and condse report of our
Very Worshipful Grand Secretary. It, reflects that efficiency . an~ sk~ll
which increase as the years of service pass. The Grand Lodge of Cahforma
is fortunate in having had the services· of our beloved Brother John
Whicher for nearly thirty years. His reputation as a Grand Secretary extends far beyond the boundaries of this grand jurisdiction into other grand
jurisdictions 9f Masonry throughout the world.
We commend him for his loyalty and devotion in the discharge of his
duties in this high position of trust.
In the words of our Most Worship£~! Grand Master, he is indeed "The
Grand old man of Masonry" in California.
Respectfully submitted,
FRED B. ZIMMERMAN,
ROLAND E. ISRAEL,
WM.

w. SKELTON.

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ANNUAL ORATION
By ALBERT F. ROSS ..

Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren:
With pride I undertake the task allotted to me by our Most Worshipful
Grand Master, but with humility I realize that the task is a burden and ii
responsibility, as well as a pleasure and a privilege,
At my installation one year ago I was reminded of my duty in the one
short sentence, "It shall be the duty of the Grand Orator, at each annual
communication; to deliver an address to the Grand Lodge upon matters
appertaining to the craft."
Today the Grand Lodge of California convenes for the eighty-seventh
time in annual communication, and during a11 these past years Grand
Orators have performed the duty just stated and have delivered addresses
upon matters pertaining to the craft. If I may be pardoned for just one
personal reference, I thrill with pride to be reminded that my own grandfather sat in this Grand Lodge in 1859, and my father in 1888, both as
Masters of the same little pioneer Lodge, Northern Light No. 190, and each
listened to an exposition of Masonic history, Masonic symbolism and
Masonic ideals. Masonic history is now a few years longer, but the symbolism and the ideals are the same now as then.
During the eighty-six years of this Grand Lodge's life, many distinguished and able speakers have filled the post where I now stand. Many
of them have confessed their humility and their diffidence in attempting
to address such an assemblage. When I recall the names of just a few of
the grand orators of the past-Past Grand Masters Hervey, Adams, Burke,
Boynton, Fischer, and Gaylord, our present Senior Grand Warden, the
distinguished brother who is Chief Justice of the California Supreme Court,
Judge Waste, and his Associate Justice, Brother Ira Thompson, those eloquent brethren, John L. McNabb, Fletcher A. Cutler, Rufus B. Von KleinSmid, Ezra Decoto, Tully C. Knoles, Leslie Learned, 0. K. Morton,
Reynold E. Blight, the late William C. Hassler, and others of an earlier
day-I pray .that I may accomplish my task in any measure as well as
they; Back in 1897, thirty-nine years ago, we find the Grand Orator,
Brother Francis Ellsworth Baker, complaining that the subjects and
thoughts proper for the occasion had been so often treated by abler minds
than his that there was nothing left for a grand orator to say. And, to use
the words of Brother Waste in his oration to the Grand Lodge in 1914,
"I bring to you today only a simple message from the heart."
I speak to you not of the past as a historian. In our Grand Lodge
library there are many volumes, and in most of the subordinate Lodges,
some, and to these the attention of the craft is directed and their study
is recommended. It is urged that all you masters and wardens familiarize
yourselves with the background of present-day Masonry, and carry the
information to the craft in your various Lodges. The history of Masonic
symbolism, the works of our ancient brethren who were both operative
and speculative, the story of the Roman Collegia and of the Cathedralbuilders of the Middle Ages, the evolution of Ancient Craft Masonry as it
exists today, all this should be unfolded to the brethren that they may
know our institution and glory in its history.
The lessons of the past, in Masonry as in all else, teach us how to act
in the present. From the experiences of our ancestors we may govern our
conduct to the best advantage of both our fellow creatures and ourselves.
The present is the big time. We must give thought to the past, we
should reverence those who have preceded us, we should give memory its

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

49

hours. Likewise we should sometimes look ahead and plan properly for
what is to come.
But the time to act is now. The greatest man of a hundred years ago
can do nothing now, but each of you are here in the living present. As
the poet says: '
Over my head the stars ; distant and pale and cold;
·U nder my feet the world, wrinkled and scarred and old;
Back of me all that was, all the limitless Past;
The Future waiting beyond, silent, untenanted, vast.
Babylon lies in the dust; never a sentinel calls
With fear on his parted lips from any of Ninevah's walls,
Troy is only a name; Caesar is deaf to praise,
Back of me spreads the Past in numberless Yesterdays.
JJt lt, :1 " i
,: l
1 1 .1 1 1 ;1 ~ i :1 1 i
I stand at the end of the Past-where the Future begins
I stand;
Emperors lie in the dust, men may live to command;
But greater than rulers unborn, greater than kings
Wh.o have reigned;
Am I that have hope in my heart, and victories still
To. be gained.
Under my feet the world, over my head the sky,
Here at the center of things, in the Living Present am I.

iJ:;1u

How can Masonry help us to make the most of the present? How
can it do otherwise if we but make our hearts and minds recepdve to its
teaching?
Early in our Masonic careers we learn that this is an institution having
for its foundation the practice of the social and moral virtues. An ardent
application and promulgation of the great fundamental principles, and a
generous devotion of our time and attention to their realization will add
joy to our lives and the !iv.es of those around us, as well as promote success
for our endeavors in whatever work we are pursuing.
A survey of those Masonic principles is thus something we should
attempt at times, not only when, as here, we are in convention assembled,
but when we are alone with our thoughts. The ritual of our order is filled
with beautiful gems and wise and serious truths, but they must be made
more than words. We must think them; then we must act them.
Masonry as we know it is symbolic. The great Mason and scholar,
Albert Pike, said: "The symbolism of Masonry is the soul of Masonry.
E very symbol of a L odge is a religious teacher, the mute teacher also of
morals and philosophy."
.To get the value of Masonry we must understand this symbolism. One
may be a·b le to repeat every line of the .Ritual without .an error, but if he
does not understand the meaning, not just the language but the underlying
thought, he does not know his Masonry.
·I might add, however, that I am a firm believer in letter-perfection in
rendering the ritual. The words of the ritual accurately express the symbolism of our emblems, ceremonies and traditions, and to preserve this
accuracy no word should be omitted nor changed except by Grand Lodge
authority, and then the change will be uniform throughout the jurisdiction.
This is no time to discuss what may be a controversial matter before
this communication as to the so-called "new system" a nd t he so-called

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"old system" of lectureship in California, but regardless of what system
w~ use, I take this opportunity to say that we should adopt that which
will lead to a letter-perfect and uniform rendition of the ritual, and no
fals_e e~ono~y should be considered. We can do without banquets and
social times 1f need be, but we owe a duty, not only to our Masonic predece~sors,_ but to our Masonic posterity, that to the latter may be "transmitted
ummpa1red the most excellent tenets of our insti-tuion."
But, to repeat, to get the values from the various symbols we must
understand them. Each symbol, each emblem, each allegory has a lesson
for us which will help us in meeting the needs and grasping the opportunities of the "living present."
From the blindfold before initiation by which we are made more sightless than the new-born babe to the acacia which symbolizes immortality
after _the body has matured, and aged, and died, every single emblem and
teaching has an important place.
In the New Testament is told how Jesus of Nazareth was asked
"Master, what is the great commandment in the law " and his answer'
"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart a~d with all thy soui
and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the
second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these
two commandments hang all the law and the prophets."
There was the Sermon on the Mount of the New Testament there
were the Ten Commandments given to Moses, the Psalms of Dav.id, the
Proverbs of Solomon, and the preachments of the many prophets; yet of
these four short sentences was truly said, "On these two commandments
hang all the law and the prophets."
So in Masonry, can we with reverence paraphrase the words of Jesus
and say of certain emblems, "On these hang all the Masonic tenets and
principles?"
I think. we can. The Three Great Lights of Masonry cover the whole
field.
The purity of the lambskin apron, the innocence of the lamb the
friendship and brotherly love of the two right hands joined, the r~ugh
ashlar made perfect by a proper use of the common gavel, the five orders
of architecture, the globes which give us knowledge of the world we live
in and of the universe through which that world and even its mother sun
fly as but specks of dust, the trowel by which friendship is cemented and
made enduring, the geometrical problem of Euclid which exemplifies
science, and the beehive which exemplifies industry, all these deserve careful
consideration and appreciation, but all are comprehended within the lessons
taught by the Great Lights.
"The Holy Bible is given to us as the rule and guide of our faith the
square to square our actions and the compass to circumscribe our de~ires
and keep our passions within due bounds toward all mankind."
The meanings of the square and compass are many. To walk and act
upon the square is a familiar phrase of · popular significance. Among the
sacred symbols of the ancient Egyptians the square was found. The same
is true of China long before the Christian era.
Shakespeare uses the phrase, "I have not kept my square" in a play
where one is confessing his shortcomings. M<1ny of you no doubt have
heard of the old square found in the foundations of a bridge in Ireland
dated 1517, and inscribed with 'these words:
'
"I will strive to live with love and care
Upon the level by the square."

51

The square is at once the jewel of the Master and the working tool
of the Fellowcraft.
The square and compass together are often given this significance: the
square represents the worldly side of man, as . the earth in ancient times
was supposed to be flat and oblong, while the compass represents the
heavenly side, the curves which the compass makes possible being found
in the star-decked dome of heaven. This explanation should make plain
to the brethren the reason for the change in position of the square and
compass in the three degrees, from the point where the wor!dly nature
overlies the heavenly to that where the heavenly achieves supremacy over
the worldly.
"T)le most important tenets of Free Masonry," we are told, "are contained within ·the points of the extended compass. They are Brotherly
Love, Relief and Truth." These tenets are early brought to the attention
of the Entered Apprentice and should never be forgotten. It is Brotherly
Love that should actuate us when we go on foot and out of our way to
assist a brother, when we stretch forth a helping hand, and when we
whisper good counsel in his ear. We are linked together by an indissoluble
chain and, although it may be a duty to relieve the distressed, it should be
a sp~ntaneous result of sincere affection for our troubled brethren, their
widows and orphans.
Truth, as explained to the Entered Apprentice, is sincerity, honesty of
expression and plain-dealing among men. The higher idea is that of
Divine Truth, a knowledge of God. Allegorically we search for that which
is lost, but this allegory points out that mankind must forever keep up
the search for Divine Truth, for only when that Truth permeates all
humanity will perfection among men and women be approached.
The compass also teaches us to circumscribe our desires, and as the
square governs our conduct with our ·fe llow-men, the compass points out
the duty of self-control, that our divine minds and spirits should have the
ascendancy over our animal natures and instincts.
The Holy Bible is not only one of the Great Lights ; it is the Great
Light. The square and compasses are only emblems and t ools when used
by themselves; it is only when upon the open Bible that they become great
lights also. No Lodge can be opened without the presence of the Bible. In
fact, we define a Lodge as "a certain number of brethren assembled with
a Holy Bible, square and compass, and a charter or dispensation." We use
the English Bible, but it is only a symbol of the book of Truth. Mohammedan Masons may use the Koran, Jews, the Old Testament only, and that
book should be used which to the Masons using it most fully represents
Divine Truth.
Masonry is said to unite men of every sect and opinion, and in doing
this it leaves each one to interpret the Bible in his own way. A Mason of
one sect or religious denomination may believe in certain practices and base
them on biblical reading, while to another the interpretation has a different
effect. So long as both believe in one true and living God, a ll-powerful and
ever-present, they can meet harmoniously as Masons and brothers before the
Holy Bible as a symbol of God's truth.
We who use the English Bible can do so with the knowledge that,
aside from its symbolical use, it is one of the greatest books ever given to
mankind. Whether as literature, philosophy or theology, it should be read
more by Masons than I think it is. When we install the Chaplain of our
Lodges he is told, "That Holy Book ... forever sheds its benignant rays
upon every lawful assemblage of Free and Accepted Mas·ons," and then he
is enjoined, "Teach us from its life-giving precepts."

53

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

And were we taught from it we would find our Masonry repeated
therein again and again.
Although there seems to have been no strict insistence upon it in recent
years in this jurisdiction, I understand that in the three degrees the Bible
should be opened to 'the 83rd Psalm, the seventh Chapter of Amos and the
twelfth chapter of Ecclesiastes respectively. The last, in particular, will be
familiar to all Master Masons.
Dr. Albert Mackey gives the passages to which the English Masons
open their Bible in the three degrees, and these I use merely as examples
of what the Bible can mean to any Mason who will read it.

down beside his bunk, if there were a bunk, or beside his roll of blankets if
we were sleeping on the ground, and silently pray to his Creator. Not
another man of the 150 in the battery did likewise, but there was not a man
who did not respect his comrade who was brave enough to say his prayers.
Another instance related to that same World War, but which is not
personal, has always appealed to me as ~ fine example, an~ I have mentioned it many times when speaking to audiences of school c'h!ldren, as some
in this assemblage well know.
That is the story of Marshal Foch at the signing of the Armistice on
that dark and misty 5 A. M . of November 11, 1918.
The Germans had asked for terms three days earlier and strict conditions for a cessation of hostilities had been offered, but no definite agreement made that hostilities would in fact cease. All was in the hands of
Ferdinand Foch as Generalissimo of the Allied Armies. No man in history
ever had had so' much real power over the lives of millions of people.
The German envoys had come to accept the terms and sign the armistice. They had located Marshal Foch in an old railroa~ car on ~ siding ~ot
many miles behind the lines where the guns were still booming heav~ly.
They announced to the marshal their readiness to sign the document which
had been prepared.
Then Marshal Ferdinand Foch, holding within the pen fingers of his
right hand the decision whether the war s·hould cease in a few hours! or
continue perhaps until spring when a more decisive victory could be gamed
and a more crushing defeat inflicted on
Central P owers, calmly .r~se
and walking to the fa r end of the car quietly knelt 3:nd ~sk~d ~or d1v1.n_e
guidance. Rising in a moment or two, he came ~a~k, m his d1gmfi~d m1l~­
tary manner, to the table on which lay the ari;n1st1ce agreement, .s1g,?ed 1t
and announced to his staff, "The guns cease firmg at 11 A. M. today.
As the Mohammedan faces Mecca and prays no matter how far out
in the desert he may be, as the prophet Daniel faced Jerusalem and prayed
three times a day despite Belshazzar's decree, so may we, as men and
Masons, appropriately open our hearts to the soothing influence of prayer.
Among our prayers is one not used as such. I refer to some of the
verses of that solemn hymn which is heard as the twelve fellowcrafts go
their way to the hillside where the acacia tree buds and blooms at the head
of a lonely grave. And in the words of those verses may I express my
prayer for all of us here today, and for the 130,000 Master Masons throughout California and Hawaii whom we represent:

52

First from fourth Ruth, seventh verse:
"Now this was the manner in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and changing, for to confirm all things; a man plucked off his
shoe and gave it to his neighbor, and this was a testimony in Israel."
Secondly from Judges 12, sixth verse:
"Then said they unto him, Say now Shibboleth ; and he said Sibboleth; for he could not frame to pronounce it right . Then they took
him and slew him at the passages of Jordan and there fell at that time
of the Ephraimites forty and two thousand."
And thirdly. from I Kings, seventh chapter, 13th and 14th verses:
"And King Solomon sent and fetched Hiram out of Tyre. He was
a widow's son of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of
Tyre, a worker in brass ; and he was filled with wisdom and understanding, and cunning to work all works in brass. And he came to King
Solomon, and wrought all his work."
From this wonderful book, then, it is earnestly urged that all Masons
should frequently read that it may be even more than the great light that
it is.
And to live the fullest Masonic lives in this living present, keep the
Great Lights of Masonry ever before your eyes, the Bible, emblematic of
the wisdom of King Solomon, the square, emblematic of the strength and
power of King Hiram, and the compass, emblematic of the skill of the
master architect and chief builder who was brought. out of Tyre. Thus all
the lessons of Masonry passed down to us from the days of our first three
most excellent Grand Masters will be kept in mind and produce beneficial
results.
Lastly, my brethren, we should always remember that when all else
fails, divine assistance is vouchsafed us through the medium of prayer. We
say or listen to certain prayers in our ritual ; we should think and feel
them also.
That prayer is something not to be looked at lightly has been proved
to me many times in spite of the tendency among us moderns to get away
from the religious sincerity of our fathers.
·
One particular instance I have in mind is that of a comrade of the
World War days in active army service over-seas. This soldier was an
adept horseman, a fine artilleryman, and a splendid specimen of strength
and manhood, who could and would hold his own in any righteous fight.
Some of the others of the battery found that he could use his fists to advantage when he would.
·
Yet every night just before tap~ was. blown, as he was about to lie
down for ·the night, perhaps with just his shirt-collar opened and otherwise
fully dressed (as the necessities of war so~etimes re·quire~, he would kneel_

t?e

God of Life's Eternal Day
Guide us, lest from Thee we stray
By a false, delusive light
To the shades of endless night.
·Lord of all, below, above,
Fill our souls with Truth and Love
As Dissolves our earthly tie,
Take us to Thy Lodge on high.
1 add, and conclude, "Amen. So Mote it be."

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
ANNUAL REPORT OF TRUSTEES

amounting at the end of this fiscal year to $65.00. We heartily commend
her action to other recipients of the bounty of the fraternity.
The following graduates of the Home are now participating in the
benefits of the Fund:
Sidney Schwartz, West Gate Lodge No. 335, now in the last year of
medical course.
Mildred Jordan, Justice Lodge No. 549. This young woman, after
graduating from high school and honorable dismissal from the Home,
took a course in business training, secured employment, saved her money,
and now has matriculated at the University of California at Berkeley.
George Plaster, South Park Lodge No. 563. Business training.
Rµth Warren, Alhambra Lodge No. 322. Business training.
Lillian Nelsen, Las Palmas Lodge No. 366. Business training.
Marion Ernst, Yosemite Lodge No. 99. Business training.
Martha Mark, Whittier Lodge No. 233. Course in nursing at Santa
Barbara. Now advanced to the surgical department.
Elizabeth Mark, Whittier Lodge No. 323. California College of Commerce at Long Beach.
Russell Hocks, graduated from high school last June, and while not
participating in the privileges of the Scholarship Fund, was fortunate
enough to be taken into the home of Brother Max Bouquet, a member of
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307. We appreciate this generous action of the
brother, and extend our thanks to him and his good mother.
Parker Davies, Martinez Lodge No. 41. Taking special course in
Diesel engine work at Ann Arbor, Michigan.
In May, 1936, James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566, offered to sponsor one
graduated boy through the University of California at Los Angeles. The
offer was accepted.

To the M:.W:.Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of . California herewith
presents the forty-fourth annual report for the fiscal year ended July 31
1?36, with a roster of residents as of August 31, and of funds collected
smce the close of the fiscal year, to September 30.
. Pursuant ~o the requirements of the Constitution the Board met immediate!~ followmg the close of Grand Lodge on October 11, 1935, and
orgamzed as follows:
P~esident'. Charles M. Wollenberg (whose term expires 1938).
V1ce-Pres1dent, James B. Gist (1939).
Samuel E. Burke (1936).
Chas. Albert Adams (1937).
Rollie W. Miller, Deputy Grand Master.
James Thomas Fraser, Senior Grand Warden.
Leon 0. Whitsell, Junior Grand Warden.
William P. Filmer, Treasurer.
John Whicher, Secretary.
Field Investigators and Relief
F<;>r a num.ber of years we have employed a social worker as Field
Investigator with headq~arters at the Covina Home, with satisfactory
results. T~e work there 1s referred to in the report of the Superintendent
of the Covma Home.
Last fall the Board appointed Miss Elsie Schulte as social worker to
look after the work of investigating reported cases of distress in the
northern. part of the jurisdictions. The appointment was in the nature of
an. expenmen,t, and has proved to be a success. Your attention is called to
Miss Schultes report, appended hereto.
The invest.igations. of the social workers have proved the value of their
work no.t only m reducmg the cost of relief extended, but also in the mental
and social comfort afforded to t_he dependent wards of the Lodges and
th~y have rendered valuable assistance to Masters in working out their
rehef problems.
In the year closing July 31, 1935, the Home assisted outside of the
Homes, 131 adults and 71 children, at a cost of $43,539.78. For the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1936, 113 adults and 67 children were assisted at a
~ost '?f $40,791.54. The reduction in number and cost are largely due to the
mtelhgent labors of the social workers.
·
Scholarships
Donations t? the Scholars.hip. Fund are few. In the past year the
fund was recogmzed by the followmg donations:
~afB~ead Lodge No. 650............-··--····-········-·········..·--···-····-··$ 5.00 .
Afht ~ ge No. 516-...........................................-·············-·············· 50.00
F am ra Lodge No. 322 ............................................................-.. 25.00

1::i~k B~.w~~~~-~---~---~::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::·::.".".".":::::::::::::::·.~~::::::::::=.~-- :~~g

.
f
•
$550.00
Th e d onation
ron; Miss Bowser deserves special mention. This
you~g woman was admitted to the Covina Home September 9 1927, from
Lexmgton Lodge No. 104, and on her graduation from high school in
June, 1933, was honorably dismissed to the custody of her mother In
May, 19~, she .was aw~r?ed a scholarship of $150.00 to enable her to take
a course m busm~ss trammg. She finished her course, secured employment,
and has voluntarily returned from her earnings the sum of $5.00 a month,
0

55

Our Method of Training Children
It goes without argument that the proper training of a child taxes the
mind and thought of every parent. The same problems, multiplied many
times confront the management of an institution having the care and
responsibility of properly training a family of nearly two hundred children. Your Trustees, with the cordial and intelligent co-operation of the
Superintendent and his household staff at our Home for children at
Covina, have made the problems of child training a major study.
T.here are two schools of thought in the rearing of children in institutions: one (now largely discarded) is that boys and girls should be
cared for separately, without contact between them. The other, to which
we adhere, is that co-educational training is better in an institution as it is
in a normal home. We believe positively in the encouragement of free
association between boys and girls, of course with intelligent supervision.
For instance, we make the dining room more than merely a place to eat.
We make it a social center, with boys and girls at each table. We find
that this makes for far better manners and more really intelligent conversation than would result if boys only were at one table and girls only
at· another table. When this arrangement was inaugurated, something more
than a year ago, there was some demur among boys of the type who pride
themselves on their ultra masculinity, who delight in dirty cords and to be
rough. You all know this type. They' are in nearly all families. Our boys
soon became reconciled to the idea of sitting with g irls and the association has had a marked effect on the manners and courtesy of not only the
boys, but has tended to enlarge and liberalize the point of view of the
girls. This commingling · extends to all the activities of the Home, and has
not added to any of the problems of child-rearing. On the contrary we
have found it has fine possibilities, particularly for the practice of the art
of living outside t he Home, after. dismissal. We have no hesitation in

57

PROCEEDINGS OF THE-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

declaring our faith that mixed association, carefully managed, has splendid
cultural and moral possibilities for both boys and girls.
In this connection, and with a view to check some phases of the
mode of operation of the Home for children, Mrs. Jessie C. Fenton, of the
California Bureau of Juvenile Research, a well-known authority in child
welfare work, made a special survey of our .practices in the training of
children, and particularly in the matter of the relationships of the boys and
girls. She indorsed our methods. We refer you to her comments as contained in the report of the Superintendent in the pages following.

thoughtful and .g enerous donor was Warren G. Bailey, a m~mber of
Balder Lodge No. 393, San Francisco. This donation is appreciated not
only by the Trustees but particularly by the residents of the Home, who
will thereby be enab'ted to see and hear, at frequent i~tervals, the plays
portrayed on the silver screen. In behalf of the fraternity we extend our
thanks to Brother Bailey.
Due to the condition of the craft and the desire of the Trustees. of the
Homes to reduce the indebtedness, we have cut replacement of eqmpment
and maintenance . of buildings to a minimum for the last fi~e years. B~th
are now imperatively necessary, and therefore, we are askmg the continuance of 75 cents per capita assessment for the support of the Homes for
the ensuing year. -

56

Legacies Received
Mary Bowman estate ......................................:.............................$5,315:98
Peter C. Hansen estate •............................................................... · 4,450.00
Frederick C. Keck estate -·························································· 1,809.42
Nora Lee Hickey estate.~ ............................................................ 4,306.64
Frank I. Kenne estate ................................................................ 171.55
A. F. Schleicher estate ................................................................ 250.00
John Sinclair estate ············-······························-·························
53.15
Octava Buzzo estate .................................................................... 288.36
Henry Sieroty estate .................................................................... 500.00
John and Lena Luckenbach ...................................................... 7,650.15
Lucy G. Stevens estate ................................................................ 1,208.30
William P. Jeffries estate ............... :............................................ 1,000.00
Oliver C. Moore estate ·················································-··············· 500.00
Harry Seibel ................................,................................................... 300.00
James Gladding ................. :............................................................ 257.50
George J. Burton ·························································-················· 750.00
John Tonningsen estate .............................................................. 1,342.38
Max Goge estate ..•...................................-...................................... 100.00
Albert Dodge estate ..................................... .'....:..... :..................... 972.50
Johan Amandus Johnson ........................ ~ ...::... ~.: .......... :............'. 9,414.70
In connection with these legacies I believe it would be just and fitting
that the work of Past Grand Master Adam should be duly acknowledged.
For years he has carried on the legal work of the trustees assisted, in such
cases as need attention in the south, by Past Grand Master Weller.'
Many legacies that come to us require many appearances of our attorney in court in conference. Brother Adam and Brother Weller have
cheerfully given their services and time to the Masonic Home, frequently
at personal sacrifice.
A Large Donation
Brother Charles N. Flint (Pentalpha Lodge No. 202) and his wife
donated stocks and bonds of the par value of $90,000, and real estate of the
value of $25,000, the income from all of which is to be used for the benefit
of the residents of the Decoto Home.
Endowment Fund
At the close of the year 1935 the amount due on our note for money
borrowed from the Endowment Fund, to complete the buildings at Decoto
and Covina, amounted to $175,000. During the last preceding fiscal year
$25,000 was paid and since August 1, 1936, we have paid an additional sum
of $50,000, leaving now an indebtedness of only $100,000.00.
The Endowment Fund, as of July 31, 1936, had grown to the respectable sum of $889,621.51. The report of the Endowment Board will show
in detail the condition of the Fund.
Gift to Decoto Home
A much-needed accession to the Home at Decoto was provided
through the gift of a sound moving picture machine fully equipped. The

CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG,
JAMES B. GIST,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
SAMUEL E. BURKE,
ROLLIE W. MILLER,
JAMES T. FRASER,
LEON 0. WHITSELL,

Board of Trustees.
Report of Secretary
To the Trustees of the Masonic Homes:
I present herewith a statement (approved by the Auditors) of the
receipts and disbursements and valuations of properties held .by the
Masonic Homes for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1936. The detail of all
securities notes and insurance policies held in the name of the Homes is
contained in the report of the Auditors, filed with the Committee on
Finance:
Exhibit A
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1936

General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1935:
In banks ....................................................
Revolving funds, Decoto and Covina
Receipts
From revenue accounts:
From annual returns:
Home maintenance tax ....................$92,171.25
Home building ta~ .................. ;.......;. 61,447.50
$25.00 Home · tax_................................ 73,575.00
Endowment fund interest and dividends ....................................................... .
Interest on endowment fund note
(contra) ....................................................
General maintenance-credits:
From subsidiary accounts-(Including proceeds received from insurance policies, securities, · sale of
real estate, etc., turned over by
residents of homes; rentals, etc.)

$10,339.51
1,000.00

$227,193.75
28,841.47
8,645.83

29,914.32

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

59

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

58

Field investigation expense:
Special advances-Lodges for Decoto 1,510.00
Special advances-Lodges for Covina 5,221.43
State aid for Covina ·-------·-·------······---·
Outside relief (not eligible for Home
relief)-reimbursed thrpugh Grand
Lodge ........................................................ 7,415.00
Outside relief-other reimbursements
737.09
Funeral expense advances-credits....
Miscellaneous income accounts:
Miscellaneous farm income-De161.93
coto ································-··---------·-···--··
Farm produce sales-Covina.......... 2,440.87
Miscellaneous-Covina ..................
475.70
Other sundry revenue ......................
58.80
From Other Accounts:
Entertainment fund receipts-credits
Students' loan fund receipts-credits
Students' loan fund-bond redeemed
Collections, miscellaneous receivables
-Covina ....................................................
Funds held in suspense for Endowment' Fund-pending settlement of
estate (A. J . Johnson) ............................

Northern District ........ 1,782.32
Southern District ........ 2,676.45
Reimbursed Gran<l Lodge
F.&A.M.-Secretary's
and assistant secretary's salaries .............. 1,800.00
394.46
Trustees' expense ..............
300.00
Auditing ················-·········Safe keeping of securities,
etc. ....................................
309.07
394.28
Miscellaneous ..................

6,731.43
4,162.33

8,152.09
5,077.29

12,102.40

Other Accounts :

3,137.30

5,388.08
2,428.02
1,000.00
318.30

Entertainment fund disbursements-debits:
Decoto ................................ 2,017.43
Covina - -························-· 3,052.29

935.00
Students' loan fund disbursements-debits..
Payments account of Endowment Fund25,000.00
notes payable ..............................................
Amortization of 1934-35 Bond .P remium
914.42
(Capital Account) - ·····································
328.38
Miscellaneous receivables-Covina ............
1,612.07
Automobile new-Covina ............................
Total disbursements ...............................................................•

302,257.24

Cash balance July 31, 1936 .................................................•..............$

40,305.73

235.25

Total receipts .........................,.......................................................... 331,225.46
Total to account for ...............................................·- ································ $342,564.97
Disbursements
Expense accounts :
Operating expense--Decoto
(maintenance) ········-----·•················-········-$ 105,244.76
Operating expense--Covina
(maintenance) ..............................................
86,485.22
Interest endowment fund note (contra) ....
8,645.83
Outside relief ..................................................
40,791.54
Outside care of children ..............................
1,602.11
General maintenance-debitsFrom subsidiary accounts-(Including
taxes, interest and expense paid out re
properties turned over by residents of
homes; and life insurance premiums
7,906.81
paid.) ················································-············
5,647.98
Funeral expense - debits ··············-············
Administrative and general expense :
Taxes ····-···-···- ···--·····$ 2,153.16
Insurance .......:..............
2·,292.66

5,092.72

Composition of Balance
Anglo California National Bank
1,687.27
(Commercial account) ..................................$
Security First National Bank of L. A.
6,806.36
(Commercial account) ..................................
Anglo California National Bank
29,167.80
( endowment interest A/C) ..........................
1,644.30
Security First National Bank-Pasadena ......
1,000.00
Revolving funds, Decoto and Covina................
Total ·······················································-·····--······················:.....$
Exhibit B
BALANCE SHEET GENERAL FUND
J ULY 31, 1936

Assets
Cash:
In banks.---························-········$
Revolving funds, Decoto and
Covina ····-··········-············-··

39,305.73
1,000.00

40,305.73

40,305.73

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Securities, Real Estate, Etc. (donated):
General fund securities (Schedule B-3) ..................................
Real estate (assessed value) ....

62,273.16
24,875.00

Sundry Receivables-Covina........

87,148.16

Deduct:
Bond premium amortization
transferred· after close of
prior audit ............................

471.61

Net worth balance: July 31, 1936

61

914.42

.
$2,387,100.19

Properties: (At Cost)
Land, buildings and equipment-Decato ...................... 1,782,392.41
Land, buildings and equipment-Covina ...................... 607,676.05
Land and improvementsCamp Tucker...........................
23,096.00
(No depreciation
books).

taken

Exhibit C
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSE
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31,

2,413,164.46

Revenue

on

Received from General Sources:
From annual returns:
Home maintenance tax $ 92,171.25
Home building tax .......... 61,447.50
$25.00 Home tax .............. 73,575.00

Stores and Supplies:
Decoto ..........................................
Covina ............................................

2,495.86
2,674;67

5,170.53

Total assets.............................

2,546,260.49

Liabilities

Notes Payable-Due Endowment
Fund ..............................................
Due other funds:
Entertainment fund ....................
Students' Loan Fund................

150,000.00
6,016.85
2,908.20

8,925.05

Items held in suspense:
Received from A. J. Johnson
estate .....................................•

235.25

Total ,liabilities......................

159,160.30

Excess of assets over liabilities ....

$2,387,100.19

Capital Account

Total

Interest and dividends received
from Endowment Fund securities
Interest Endowment Fund note (contra)
General maintenance:
From subsidiary accounts (Including
revenue derived from General Fund
securities, real estate sales, rentals, etc.,
less expense $7,906.81) ..............................
Outside relief (not eligible for Home
relief)-reimbursed through Grand
Lodge ............................................................

227,193.75

28,841.47
8,645.83

22,007.51
7,415.00

Received by Decoto and Covina, Direct:
Special advances from subordinate Lodges:
Decoto (for maintenance) 1,510.00
Covina (for maintenance) 5,221.43
10,893.76
State aid receipts-Covina
4,162.33
Total revenue ..............................................................................$ 304,997.32

Net worth balance: August 1,
1935, prior reporf.......................•
Add:
Current 1935-36 donations:
Securities recorded at market
value when received ............
Real estate recorded at as·sessed value when received
Excess of revenue over expense _1935-36 ........................

1936

$2,333,045.21

Expense
Operation of Homes (Direct):
Excess operating expense
over sundry direct revenue
-Decoto (Exhibit D) .... 106,667.47
Excess operating expense
over sundry direct revenue
Covina (Exhibit E) ............ 83,396.55

2,341.58
670.00
51,957.82
54,969.40
2,388,014.61

Outside Relief and Care:
Outside relief (less sundry
credits $737.09) ................ 40,054.45

190,064.02

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

62

Outside care of childrenCovina ················-·····--··--·-·

1,602.11

Interest-Endowment Fund Note (Contra)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

•Note: (a) Total operating expenses Decoto, $111,726.78, above, include
cash expenditures of $105,244.76 as per Exhibit A plus farm
produce consumed of $4,868.58 plus perpetual inventory adjustment for stores issued in amount of $1,613.44.
(b) Form of statement is changed for cost purposes :-only sundry
farm revenue is deducted in Exhibit D above. General revenue
-subordinate Lodges is included in Exhibit C.

41,656.56
8,645.83

Administrative and General Expense:
Taxes ·········----·--··-·-····-···········
Insurance ·-···-··------······-·········
Field investigation expense
(Northern district $1,782.32; Southern District
$2,676.45) ·········--·········-··--·
Secretary's and assistant
secretary's salaries ···-··-·
Trustees' expense ···-·-·-········
Auditing ··-··-···---·-------·-··········
Safe keeping of securities,
etc. ----····---···-···--··--·-----·-·-····
Miscellaneous ·····---------------··

2,153.16
2,292.66

Schedule D-1

4,458.77

DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSES IN DETAIL
AT DECOTO

1,800.00
394.46
300.00
309.07
394.28

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1936.

Expenses
Maintenance Expense
12,102.40

Funeral Expense (excess expense over
revenue) (net) ·····-··-·--·····-········-·······--····-·······

Food:

570.69

Total expense ········-·-··················-···-···---··········-·-··-················ 253,039.50
Excess of Revenue Over Expense ············-····-··········-···················-$

51,957.82

Exhibit D

Salaries and wages.................................. 10,039.89
Operating and miscellaneous expense 7,220.04

(Reference: See Schedule D-1 for detailed accounts in support thereof)
Total (Sche<lule D-1).·--············
Deduct:

Total ..................·-·····················-

38,596.68

17,259.93

'
Clothing and sundry:

$59,051.11
Maintenance ····························-·············
12,007.32
H'ospital ···-·---········································
5,272.56
Farm ········-····················,···-·-········-·····
3,454.37
Laundry ···-····································-···--·..·
General and administrative:
Salaries and wages...·-··············-····· 12,898.11
Expenses .......................·-··-·············· 19,043.31 31,941.42

S1mdry Direct Revenue:
. From Operation of Farm, etc.:
Farm produce consumed.·-··············
Sundry farm rent and sales..- •.............
Miscellaneous ····················-·········-··

Groceries ··---····················-···············--$ 8,266.59
Meat ._......................................................... 8,810.76
Fish ............................................................
635.80
Provisions, including cured meats...... 2,085.57
Fruit and vegetables.........·--········-··-- 4,975.77
Butter, milk and eggs.................- .......... 10,271.71
Bakers' supplies..-.................................... 3,550.48
Kitchen and dining room:

STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE-DECOTO
LESS SUNDRY DIRECT REVENUE RECEIVED
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31 1936

•Operating Expenses:

63

Dental .................·-········-·······················..· 1,137.50
896.44
Clothing ···········································-·······
361.57
Shoes ····································-···················
798.99
Bedding ····-······-·······················-············

3,194.50

Total

59,051.11

Hospital Expense
$111,726.78

Salaries and wages........- ........................
Miscellaneous expense ........,...................

8,338.30
3,669.02
12,007.32

Total ········-······················....................
Farm Expense
4,943.65
86.86
28.80
5,059.31

Excess of Operating Expense Over Sundry Direct Revenue ........$106,667.47

Salaries and wages.·-···-······················Tools and equipment..............................
Seeds ······························-··························
Feed ················-··········································
Miscellaneous expense.·-····-..··-···-····
Total

1,080.00
39.43
72.78
2,698.17
1,382.18
5,272.56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

64

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Laundry Expense
Salaries and wages .........:........................
Miscellaneous expense.................·-········

of farm produce consumed less perpetual inventory adjustment for stores issued in amount $447.91.

2,677.25
777.12

General Expense
Salaries and wages..................................
Other expenses:
Light, heat, power and water........ 10,491.05
Plant repairs and maintenance........ 1,753.36
275.16
Freight and express..........................
314.67
Office printing....................................
Replacement~: furniture and fix596.00
tures ..............................................
639.38
Telephone and telegraph..................
Miscellaneous expense...................... 4,973.69

Form of presentation is changed for cost purposes :-only
sundry farm revenue is deducted in Exhibit C above. General
revenue-subordinate Lodges, etc., is included in Exhibit C.

(c)

Sundry credits representing cash revenue received in amount
$5,031.10 from employes, including children of Home for
purchase of clothing, supplies, etc., are deducted on the books
from .g ross maintenance cost in arriving at the $75,892.36
above stated and the total of supporting Schedule E-1 in conformity with prior procedure.

12,898.11

Schedule E-1
DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSE IN DETAIL
AT COVINA

19,043.31

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1936

31,941.42

Total

Expenses

Grand total operating expenses-Decato ........................................................

$111,726.78

Note: The above statement includes farm ,produce consumed, and stores
used in addition to cash. expenditures.

Exhibit E
STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE-COVINA
LESS SUNDRY DIRECT REVENUE RECEIVED
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1936

*Operating Expense:
Maintenance (care of children) ..................$
Administrative expense ................................
Farm expense ..................................................

75,892.36
8,607.21
7,607.45

(References : See Schedule E-1 for
detailed accounts in support thereof)
Total (Schedule E-1) ..................................................................$ 92,107.02
Deduct:
Sundry Direct Revenue :
Fr"om operation of farm, etc.:
6,069.71
Farm produce consumed ..........................
2,440.87
Farm produce sold outside ......................
199.89
Miscellaneous ..............................................
Total

(b)
3,454.37

Total ...............:............................. _.....

65

............................................................................................

8,710.47

Excess of Operating Expense
Over Sundry Direct Revenue ··························:···································$ 8~,396.55
*Note: (a) Total operating expenses Covina, $92,107.02, above, include
cash expenditures of $86,485.22 as per Exhibit A plus $6,069.71

Care of Children
Food:
Meats ·······'--··;_········--····················--$ 3,909.47
Fresh fruit and vegetables................ 2,770.60
Canned goods ...................................... 1,883.89
Butter and cottage cheese ................ 1,597.15
Milk ··············-········································ 4,680.44
Eggs ...................................................... 1,206.82
Baker supplies .................................... 1,915.75
Cereals ································-········---·
227.63
Other groceries .................................... 1,779.35
Outside meals ··············-······················ 5,718.48

$25,689.58

Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries and wages ............................ 5,125.64
Supplies ................................................ 1,195.11
Equipment repairs and
replacements ....................................
27.23

6,347.98

Clothing:
Ready made wearing apparel... ..'.....•. 1,458.48
Repairs and cleaning ........................
858.67
Drygoods and notions ......................
417.61

2,734.76

Laundry:
Salaries and wages ............................ 1,527.18
261.03
Supplies ········································'·······
Equipment repairs and
' 52.94
replacements ....................................

1,841.15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

66

Dormitories:
Salaries and wages ............................ 9,403.02
933.85
Supplies ................................................
Equip~ent repairs and
244.97
replacements ....................................
Hospital:
Doctors' and dentists' fees ................
Salaries and wages ..............................
Medical supplies and drugs ..............
Other supplies .......................'.............
Equipment repairs and
replacements ....................................
Outside hospital, x-rays,
glasses, etc. ......................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Administrative Expense
Salaries-Superintendent and office
Stationery and printing.....·-······-····Postage ..................................................
Telephone and telegraph ................
Traveling expense ..............................
Automobile expense..................·-·····-··
Miscellaneous ......................................
Freighf and express ··········-··············
Office equipment ................................

10,581.84

2,438.00
2,364.91
1,526.39
342.06

General-care of children:
18.38
School supplies ....................................
478.20
Tonsorial service ................................
225.39
Toilet accessories and supplies........
Miscellaneous ...................................... 1,137.44
603.83
Domestic science cottage ................
868.05
Automobile expense ..........................

6,161.47
719.50
418.24
483.98
39.55
362.64
221.33
169.51
30.99

Total administrative expense ....................................................

8,607.Zl

Farm

125.66
1,830.83

67

Dairy:

8,627.85

Salaries and wages ............................ 1,391.96
·F eed ........................................................ 2,167.03
189.37
Supplies and expense ........................

3,748.36

Orchard:
655.64
Salaries and wages ............................
Supplies and expense ........................ 1,212.93
Tractor fuel and expense ................
76.07

3,331.29

1,944.64

Farm

Care of Children
General house and property expense:

Poultry:
Salaries and wages ............................
Feed ················'········································
Supplies and expense ........................
Flock replacements ............................

Power plant:
Salaries and wages.·-··········-·······-$ 1,289.90
Fuel oil (oils, waste etc. 82.18).... 1,782.83
557.47
Repairs and renewals ...........·-······

141.91
789.93
25.82
210.40

1,168.06

379.11
76.31

455.42

3,630.20
Pigs:

Repairs to buildings:
Salaries and wages--······················ 1,488.86
772.48
Supplies and expense......................

Feed ........................................................
Supplies and expense ........................
2,261.34

Sheep:
Supplies and expense ................................................
General Farm expense ....................................................

Care of grounds:
Salaries and wages...............·-······ 1,322.28
271.05
Supplies and expense......................
General:
Gas ................................................•.....
Water ························-·····················
Light ·····················-··························
Automobile expense ·-···················
Supplies and expense......................
Equipment repairs and replacements ············-··························-··
Total for care of children........- ..

1,593.33
Total farm expense ....................................................................

7,607.45

Total -················...................................~ ..................,...............••...._., .._.,.•....$ 92,107.02
Add back: Outside receipts-care of children
credited to above accounts...................................................... 5,031.10

1,840.04
1,931.50
3,082.87
148.50
1,726.31

Grand Total Operating Expenses-Covina ··············- ························$ 97,138.12
Note:

523.82

48.43
242.54

9,253.04
75,892.36

The above distribution of expenses includes in addition to cash expenditures, farm produce consumed and stores on hand used.
JOHN W HICHER,

Secretary.

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Social Worker

secure original data for a working basis. The list consisted of eighty-five
reports, which in most cases were followed by a thorough investigation by
field worker. The results led to the discontinuance and reduction, with the
approval of the northern Trustees, of twenty-six outside relief cases, a
total monthly sum of $466.50. This was accomplished through several substantial reasons: Adult State Aid, legally responsible children furnishing
support, Spanish-American War pension, sufficient income in the home,
admittance to Decoto and Covina where it was deemed adviS"able, children
having reached the age limit, and requests for discontinuance after field
worker secured a r eport from the Lodge and a visit had been made.
A statistical report is submitted to give a more detailed analysis of the
work accomplished.

To the Trustees of the Masonic Honie of California:
On November l, 1935, I was appointed northern California field worker
by the Board of Trustees for the Masonic Homes of California. My previous training in social service work was acquired through experience in
family case work with the San Francisco Emergency Relief Administration, and State Relief Administration. The month of November was utilized in traveling with Miss Noel, field worker in Southern California, to
discuss various phases of the work involved, as well as for the purpose of
orienting myself with Masonic Homes policies and procedures. My active
work began December 1, 1935. The territory which I have covered includes
Fresno and the jurisdiction north of it, although no specific boundaries
were designated. My travels have entailed approximately nine thousand
miles. All clerical work including reports, correspondence, etc., is done
entirely by me.
Being the first to undertake the position of social worker in the northern territory, considerable organization was essential, which I have proceeded to do slowly so as not to err at the mercy of those dependent upon
the fraternity. My main purposes are coalesced under the fallowing: (1)
Investigate all new applications (where applicant resides in the north) for
admission to the Decoto and Covina Home. (2) Interview relatives of children in the Home with the view of obtaining monthly payments for the
maintenance of their children. (3) Secure suitable homes with relatives for
children who cannot adjust themselves in the Home. (4) Secure an up-todate report on the circumstances of all recipients of outside relief, heretofore under no direct' supervision, including those residing out of the State
of California. (5) Assist in reducing the amount of outside relief now being
extended in northern California. (6) Assist Lodges in securing State Aid
for adults in lieu of making formal application for reHef from the Masonic
Homes. (In most cases, $35.00 is the usual amount allotted for State aid;
this is generally in excess of the amount granted by the Masonic Homes
for one individual. (7) Investigate original applications and renewals for
State Aid for children in the Home where the mother or relative resides
in northern California.
. Not only do I wish to lessen the increasing financial burden imposed on
the Masonic fraternity, but also consider the needs and comforts for the
future welfare of the recipients of relief, and app'iicants to the Masonic
Homes. Legally responsible relatives are contacted in all instances, either
through correspondence or personal interviews. Attitudes of applicants, interested persons, relatives, and Lodges, represent an important part in each
application. .Facts are gathered to give a complete picture of the family
circumstances in order that the Trustees may be better equipped to approve or disapprove an application. In every instance, I have made no
promises to the people involved, as all decisions are determined by the
Trustees. Liberal recommendations have been made, giving the applicant
the benefit ·of their requests, rather than to save a few dollars and cause
a greater hardship for those less fortunate.
Much detail work was required in checking over the list of families in
receipt of outside relief. It was necessary to communicate with each Lodge
concerned to discover the present whereabouts of the applicants, also to

69

Statistical Report of Northern California Field Worker
A. APPLICATIONS:

I-Applications for Admission of Chiidren to Covina H ome :
Number of applications investigated ..........................................................2
1. Number of children admitted............................................................
1
Father to pay $20.00 monthly.
2. Children rejected..................................................................................
Beyond the age limit. Mother was assisted in placing child in
a private home, but later refused to carry out the plan.
II-Plans for Children Already R esident in the Home:
1. Children removed from Covina and placed with their
families ....................................................................................................
a. Father remarried.
b. Child not reappointed-placed with grandparents.
Amount paid by Home for maintenance of child-$25.00
a month.
2. P lans for relatives to assist financially toward care of the
children.
a. Number of children concerned................................................
b. Amount to be paid is pending further investigation.

2

4

II I-Aged-Applications for Admission to Decoto, or Outside Relief:

1. Number of applications referred to Field Worker for investiation ........................................................................................................ 35
2. Admitted to Decoto.................................................-........................ 26
a. Contribution of children-Total monthly....$ 20.00
b. Excess quota paid by Lodge-Total monthly...................................................... 50.00
c. Refused to accept admittance.................................................... 1
3. Outside relief g ranted.......................................................................... 3
Total monthly.______.........................- .....................$ 75.00
a. Outside relief granted temporarily, 1, pending approval of State Aid. Total monthly .... 25.00
4. Applications denied ........................- ..................................................
Sufficient income.

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

5. Withdrawn without prejudice............................................................
6. Referred to southern California for further investigation........
7. Died before application was presented to Trustees....................

2
1
1

B. OUTSIDE RELIEF:
Total Number of Outside Relief Cases Investigated by Northern Field
Worker ···················-······················································································· 85
I-Present Outside Relief-Under Supe1·vision of Field Worker in
Northern California:
1. AGED·a. Individuals .··········-··········-······························································ 29
b. Couples .......................................................................................... 4
2. CHILDRENa. In mothers' homes ................................ ~..................................... 12
b. In relatives' homes...................................................................... 2
c. In institutions other than Masonic Home............................ 4

II-Reports Obtained for Recipients of Outside Relief-Out of the
State of California:
1. AGEDa. Individuals ....................................................................................
2. CHILDRENa. In mothers' homes........................................................................
b. In relatives' homes........................................................................

III-Outside Relief Cases Referred to Miss Noel........ ..................................
Family resides in southern California. No previous supervision.

11
3
2

5

IV-Outside Relief Cases Discontillued and Reduced Through Effort of
Field worker:
1. AGEDa. Nun1ber ................................................ 18
b. Total monthly sum ........................... .
$336.50
2. CHILDRENa. Number ..........................,..................... 8
b. Total monthly sum ........................... .
130.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

71

VI-Active Cases to Be Discontinued Pending Approval of Adult State
Aid ···-··················································-····-····-·····················'..........................

5

C. ADDITIONAL WORK AND INFORMATION:
I-Service to Lodges & Masonic Boards of Relief:
Valuable in preventing many applications to the Masonic Homes.
(In most cases State Aid was secured.)
·
1. Aged ........................................................................................................ 14
2. Children ......................................................................................•..........
2
0

II-State Aid Investigations and R ene.WUls for Children at the
Covina Home :
Mother or relative living in northern California.
1. Families involved..................................................................................
2. Children concerned..............................................................................

6
12

III-Summary:
1. Trustees meetings attended................................................................ 21
2. Conference with Trustees.................................................................. 33
3. Approximate days spent on clerical work ....................... ·-············ 111
Note: All reports, correspondence, etc., is done entirely by
Field Worker.
4. Visits-total .......................................................................................... 415
Visit may take from 10 minutes to one and one-half hours.
a. To families .................................................................................... 165
b. To members of Lodges .........................·-·································· 69
c. To East Bay Masonic Board of Relief.................................. 26
d. To Outside Relief Agencies ...............•.....................,................ 96
Mostly concerning Adult State Aid.
e. To other sources.......................................................................... 59
5. Telephone calls .............................................................,........................ 106
6. Mileage-(for 9 months) ....................................................................8787
7. Round trips across ferry and toll bridges........................................ 58
August 31, 1936.
Report of the Superintendent-Decoto Home

3. TOTAL MONTHLY ··········-···················.26

$466.50

4. REASONS FOR DISCONTINUA'NCE AND REDUCTION-a. Adult State Aid............................................................................ 9
b. Responsible children furnishing support................................ 2
c. Spanish War pension..................................................................
1
d. Sufficient income ........................................................................ 5
e. Admitted to Decoto.................................................................... 2
f. Admitted to Covina....................................................................
1
g. Reached age limit........................................................................... 2
h. Field worker investigated to bring about discontinuance.. 4
V-Cases Recommended by Field Worker to Be Discontinued or
Reduced ·················i-·································································-························ 4
No action taken.

To the Board of Trustees:
In subm:tting my twenty-seventh annual report as Superintendent of
the Decoto Home, I have to state that with few exceptions the general
conditions have been satisfactory during the past year.
We have endeavored to create a homelike atmosphere, where the members of our family can enjoy the peace and comfort so necssary to those
who are· entering the evening of life, and as far as possible to encourage
them to take an active interest in the daily life of the Home.
At the beginning of the fiscal year, there were enrolled at the Home,
363. There were admitted from September 1, 1935 to August 31, 1936, 61,
making a total of 424. During the year, there passed away 68. Voluntary departures 2, leaving now a total of 354 residents. 191 men and 161 women. Of the
men and women, 28 are married couples.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The health of the residents has been good with the exception of those who
are growing feeble, due to advancing years. The average age of the men
is 74 years, and the women 73 years.
Many of our men and women who are physically able, render assistance in the routine work of the several departments, and on the grounds;
a:nd by their labors they have been a great help in the well-being of the
Home.
As heretofore, the greater part of the hill ranch has been leased, or on
cash rental. The farm has supplied plenty of eggs, fruits, nuts, vegetables
for table use. The return from the hay crop has been good this year.
All the fruit, shrubs and ornamental trees planted last year are doing
well. More trees and shrubs will be planted this year.
All the road beds are in good condition. All the necessary repairs have
been made on the boundary fences.
During the year, all necessary repairs have been made. Many rooms
!n the building have been painted. The walls and ceilings of the halls and
corridors have been repaired. Many articles of furniture have been repaired and varnished.
During the year, our water supply has been ample for our needs. Our
reservoirs, with a capacity of 500,000 gallons, have been full at all times.
The steady growth of our library continues. Many books have been
donated during the year. A large number of newspapers and magazines are
regularly received, and contribute very materially to the enjoyment of the
patrons of the reading and club rooms.
The Alameda County Free Library maintained at the Home is greatly
enjoyed by the members of the family.
We have enjoyed many splendid programs for the entertainment of
the Home family.
The social life of the Home has been greatly enriched during the year
by literary and musical entertainments, stage plays, dances, games, card
parties, etc., made possible by generous volunteers from Lodges, Eastern
Star Chapters, and friends, assisted by residents of the Home.
The special exercises which stand out prominently, were held on New
Year's Eve, New Year's Day, Lincoln's and Washington's Birthdays,
Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas.
Many members of the Home have, from time to time, enjoyed moving
picture shows at towns in the vicinity of the Home-also the opportunity to ·
visit, occasionally, a Lodge or Eastern Star Chapter located at either one
0f the nearby towns, or at the Home.
Masonic degrees are at times conferred in our Temple by visiting
Lodges for the benefit of the brethren of the Home.
A visit was recently made by a large number of the residents to Stanford University at Palo Alto, Golden Gate and Sutro Parks, and the Cliff
House, San Francisco.
Sound Moving picture equipment has been completely installed in the
Assembly Hall, through the generosity of Brother Warren G. Bailey, a
member of Balder Lodge No. 393, San Francisco. Work is now being done
to correct the acoustics of the Hall. When this is attended to, weekly
pictures will be given, which will contribute greatly to the entertainment
of the members of the Home.
Every Sunday afternoon finds the residents of the Home, and visiting
friends, congregated in the Assembly Hall for Divine service. Many of the
services are conducted by visiting clergymen, assisted by church choirs,

soloists and orchestras to render the service more interesting and impressive; bringing a message of good cheer and hope to all those who attentl.
Also, Sunday morning and evening sermons over the Radio broadcast from
various Stations are enjoyed by members of the family.
The Listeners' club," for those who cannot see to read, is held daily.
Residents of the Home, and others, read. Discussions are held and sociability promoted.
Various other forms of recreation are provided ; croquet grou.nds, and
i::idoor games, weekly dances, etc. The men have their club rooms, equipped
with radios, billiard, pool and card tables; and the ladies have their social
halls.
Christmas day is a happy time. Presents, some of which are made h y
Eastern Star Chapters, are given; others are bought with money contributed by various Lodges and friends.
•
We have been honored, during the year, by visits of officers of the
Grand Lodge, members of the Board of Trustees, and members of various
Lodges and friends of the Home.
The Matron and I wish to thank a ll the officers and employees of the
Home for the conscientious service rendered in their respective departments; also to thank the Grand Lodge officers, the Board of Trustees and
all members of the fraternity for the loyal support they have at all times
given during the year.

72

c

73

F RAN K B. HARTMAN, Superintendent.

Visitations to Decoto Home
September 10, 1935-John P. Jarman Lodge No. 669, First Degree.
September 14, 1935-Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, Third Degree in the
Temple. Entertainment for ladies of the Home in the Assembly Hall.
September 17, 1935-Fortitude Lodge No. 624, Second D egree.
September 21, 1935-Dimond L odge No. 603-Mlnstrel Show.
September 22, 1935-Sequoia Chapter No. 203, 0. E . S. Visitation to
Home.
September 25, 1935-Pacific Service Employes' Association-3-Act
Comedy, "Devils Scrap Book." Dancing.
September 28, 1935-East Bay Conductress Association-Literary and
Musical program.
September 29, 1935-King Solomon's Chapter No. 170, 0 . E. S. Miscellaneous entertainment.
October 5, 1935-Foothill Chapter No. 433, 0. E . S. Musical program,
etc.
October 7, 1935-Annual visit of the officers and delegates of t he
Grand Lodge.
October 12, 1935-John P. Jarman Lodge No. 669, and J arman Chapter No. 493, 0. E. S. Vaudeville entertainment.
October 15, 1935-Illustrated Lecture, California Sequoias.
October 27, 1935-Acantha Chapter, No. 249, 0. E . S. Chorus Son ~
Service.
October 31, 1935-Hallowe'en program by residents of the Home.
November 2, 1935-A unt Elsie Club, Oakland-Stage play by children.
November 3, 1935-Fraternity L odge No. 399-Miscellaneous program.
November 28, 1935-Thanksgiving program, by members of the Home.
Dancing.
December 1, 1935-Golden Gate Park Band-Concert.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

74

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

December 14, 1935--Vocal and Instrumental program. Dancing. By
visiting friends.
December 19, 1935-Decoto Grammar School Pupils, Miscellaneous
entertainment.
December 22, 1935-Christmas services in the Assembly Hall.
December 25, 1935-Christmas Carols in main dining room. Distribution of presents.
December 31, 1935-New Year's Eve Program by members of the
Home. Dancing.
February 14, 1936-Tulip Troopers, 0. E. S. Orchestra. Dancing.
February 22, 1936--Washington's and Lincoln's Birthday program by
residents of the Home.
March 15, 1936-San Francisco Order of Sciots, Miscellaneous program.
March 21, 1936--Friendship Lodge No. 210, Pupils from Olmsted
Studio, San Jose: Band concert. Dancing, etc.
March 29, 1936--Ellsworth House, Armstrong Business College. Literary and musical program.
March 30, 1936--Cleveland Choral Society, Oakland, Chorus singing.
April 3, 1936--Charity Lodge No. 362, Orchestra concert, etc.
April 12, 1936-Easter services given by members of the Home.
April 18, 1936--George Washington Chapter No. 409-0. E. S. Program by Dramatk Choral Club.
May 3, 1936-Aloha Chapter No. 206, 0. E. S., Annual visit to the
Home.
May 8, 1936-Elmhurst Lodge No. 610, First Degree.
May 9, 1936-29th Masonic District, comprising the following Lodges:
Martinez, No. 41, Alamo -No. 122, Antioch No. 175, Brentwood No. 345,
Pittsburg No. 429, and Mt. Diablo No. 448. Third Degree in the Temple,
Musical program given by visiting ladies, in the Assembly Hall.
May 17, 1936--Fraternity Lodge No. 399, Miscellaneous entertainment.
May 19, 1936--Brooklyn Lodge No. 225, Second Degree.
May 27, 1936--Golden Rule Lodge No. 479, Second Degree.
May 30, 1936--Memorial Day exercises, Annual visit to the Home
Cemetery.
June 3, 1936--The Gleemen, San Jose. Evening of song.
June 5, 1936~Cloverleaf P. P. A. Choral Society, Alameda. Chorus
singing, etc.
June 6, 1936--0ak Grove Lodge No. 215, Apollo Lodge No. 396, and
Woodstock Lodge No. 491, Miscellaneous program. Orchestra. Dancing.
June 8, 1936--San Jose Lodge No. 10, Literary and Musical entertainment. Dancing.
&
June 9, 1936--Sequoia Lodge No. 349. First Degree.
June 21, 1936--Stockton Pyramid of Sciots, Band Concert.
July 4, _1936--Patriotic exen:ises in the Assembly Hall. Dancing, etc.
July 30, 1936--Fruitvale Chapter Order of DeMolay. First Degree.
August 15, 1936--Annual visit of the East Bay Past Matron's Association, accompanied by the Worthy Grand Matron and the Worthy Grand
Patron.
August 22, 1936-Brooklyn Lodge No. 225, Vaudeville entertainment,
Dancing, etc.
August 30, 1936--Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219, Vocal and Instrumental program.

75

Donations to Decoto Home
Warren G. Bailey, San Francisco-2 Simplex Sound Moving picture
machines, 2 horns and sound equipment and motor gei:ierator complet'ely
installed. 39 Vols. Bancroft's History of the United States.
East Bay Past Matrons' Association, Oakland-2430 glasses of jelly
and jam, 30 large home made cakes, 52 night gowns, 28 table covers, 30
dresser scarfs, 15 comforters.
Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219-30 pounds candy, 200 cigars, 10
pounds Salami. .
George Wilson, Fraternity Lodge No. 399-1 upright piano, 1 dining
room table, 6 dining chairs, 2 rocking chairs, 1 wicker table, 4 wicker chairs,
1 davenport, 1 sewing machine, 1 wheel barrow, garden tools, 35 volumes
book, 50 feet garden hose.
Decoto Bakery-1 large Christmas Cake.
The Aquarian Ministry-! year's subscription, Aquarian Age.
Robert S. Atkins, Inc., San Francisco-15 straw hats.
Coachella Lodge No. 476--30 pounds dates.
Mrs. E. E. Hall, Oakland-I package of magazines.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-5 gallons ripe olives.
San Jose Assembly, Order of Rainbow for Girls-365 handkerchiefs.
Dr. 0. S. Dean-1 package periodicals.
Signal Chapter No. 276, 0. E. S.-1 year's subscription, Cosmopolitan
magazine.
Mrs. J. 0. Alexander, Oakland-30 player piano records.
F. G. Wilhelm, La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17-12 volumes miscellaneous books.
R. C. Lacey, Oakland-1 package of magazines.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R. A. M.-5 gallons ripe olives.
Fred M. Lewis, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21-10 volumes History of the
Worlds War.
Harry L. Davis, Oakland-2 years' subscription, Pony Express Courier.
Hansen & Co., Niles-2 large Christmas trees.
E. E. Campbell, Oakland-1 package periodicals.
Tulip Troopers, 0. E . S., Oakland-350 Hallowe'en favors.
H. F. Trost, San Francisc~ cases H . 0. Quaker Oats.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341-50 pounds walnuts.
Lindsey Lodge No. 416--20 boxes of oranges.
Commercial Soap Co., San Francisco-12 cakes toilet soap.
Veteran Lodge No. 373-2000 pounds lima beans.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506--1 olive tree.
Sadie E. Kalfus-1 bookcase and desk, 1 table lamp, 3 oil paintings.
Coachella Chapter No. 360, 0. E. S.-10 pounds dates.
W. C. Berkholtz, Folsom-1 package magazines.
Florists Telegraph Delivery Association-6 bouquets of flowers for
shut-ins.
E. 0. Massey, Vallejo-1 package magazines.
Kathryn Gifford-3 suits men's clothing, 2 pairs of shoes, 2 hats.
Esther J. Miller-2 suits men's clothing, 1 overcoat.
Ariel Chapter No. 42, 0 . E. S.-20 glases jelly.
Sun Garden Lodge No. 530-1 large box of magazines,
Victoria Crane, Oakland-110 glasses of jelly and jam.
Sarah E. Thomas, San Francisco-15 volumes 60 Centuries of Progress.
Mrs. Theo. Frolich, San Francisco-1 cabinet gramaphone, 80 record$.
Catherine M. Test, Pasadena-25 volumes miscellaneous books.
A. L. Bochroot, San Jose-1 package periodicals.

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
\

H. W. Baker Linen Co., Los Angeles--6 bath towels, 6 facel towels.
William Whiteside-1 settee, 6 chairs, 1 table, 2 stands, 1 table lamp,
1 dresser, 2 rugs, 6 chairs, garden tools.
Stewart Lockwood, Sacramento--1 package magazines.
George W . Knight, San Francisco--15 volumes miscellaneous books.
Mem.ber Scottish Rite Consistory, Los Angeles-I American flag.
W. T. Chamberlain, San Francisco-8 pairs men's shoes.
. A. R. Russell, San Francisco--6 suits men's clothing, 4 hats, I pair
slippers.
·
Porterville Lodge No. 303-2 boxes of oranges.
San Jose Lodge No. 10-I5 gallons ice cream.
W. A. Washburn, Sacramento--I large package Geographic magazines.
Luella P. Lindsley-40 volumes miscellaneous books 2 comforters
2 pillows, 1 spread.
·
'
'
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479-15 pounds candy 150 cigars.
Elizabeth Hibbard-I American Flag.
'
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Acorn ..........................494 $ 10.00
A. F. E. Irwin.................645
5.00
Alameda .......................... I67
10.00
Alamo .............................. I22
5.00
Alcatraz .........~................244
25.00
Alexandria .................... 53I
5.00
Alisa! ............~ .................32I
5.00
Alpha ..............................43I
10.00
Alturas ............................248
5.00
Amador .......................... 65
5.00
Amity ............................ 370
5.00
Antioch .......................... I75
5.00
Apollo ............................396
10.00
Arcata .........................:.. I06
5.00
Argonaut ....................~ ...46I
10.00
Argonne ....- ....:..............:5I4
10.00
Ashlar - ..........................306
5.00
Atascadero ....................493
5.00
Athens ............................228
5.00
Bakersfield ....................224
5.00
Balder ............................393
12.50
Bay City ........................526
10.00
Bay View ....................40I
20.00
Bear Mountain .............. 76
5.00
Bell ..................................483
2.50
Berkeley ........................363
10.00
B'lackmer ......................442
10.00
Brooklyn · ................,.......225
15.00
Buckeye .......................... I95
5.00
10.00
Burlingame ··--···-·-········400
Cahuenga ......................5I3
7.50
Caledonia ..........:.............486
5.00
California ...................... I
25.00
Callayomi ......................282
5.00
Carquinez ........................337
10.00
Charity .................... ~ .....362
5.35

Lodge
No.
Chico ................................III
Claremont ......................436
Clay ................................ IOI
Clinton ............................ 119
Coalinga ........................387
Colusa ............................240
Confidence ......................203
Consuelo ........................325
Corinthian ...................... 9
· Corona ............................324
Coronado ........................44I
Covenant ........................ 527
Crescent ........................ 45
Crockett ....L.................... I39
Culver City ··········-········467
Cupertino ......................510
Curtis .............................. I40
Delano ················-··········309 ·
Delta ............................- ..471
Dinuba ·..............L ..........385
Doric ................................2I6
Downey ................,.........220
Dunsmuir ......................297
Durant .................. _.,......268
East Bay ........................489
East Gate ......................290
East San Diego ............56I
El Cajon ........................576
El Centro ··········-··········384
El Dorado .................... 26
Elmhurst ........................610
El Segundo .................... 507
Enterprise ...................... 70
Eureka ............................ 16
Evergreen ......................259
Excelsior ........................ I66

Amt.
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
2.50
I2.50
I2.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge '
No.
Fairmoun\ ..................435
Fallbrook .)......................317
Far West ..\..................673
Ferndale ......\ ............... I93
Fidelity ............................. 120
Fillmore ~............:............:379
Fort Crook .......::;.........575
Fortitude ........................624
Francis Drake ..............376
Franklin ................... _I43
Fremont ......................-497
Fresno ........................-..247
Friendship ......................210
Fruitvale ........................336
Galt ................................267
George Washington ......525
Golden Gate .................. 30
Golden Rule ..................479
Gold Hill ........................ 32
Guardian ' ........................596
Hammonton ..................433
Hanford .......................279
Hartley .......................... I99
Hawaiian ......... ~ ........... 2I
Henry Clay .................. 95
Henry Knox ..................662
Henry Morse Stevens.. 54I
Henry S. Orme ............458
Hermann ,.......................127
Hesperian ......................264
Highland Park .........A.382
Hill's Ferry ..................236
· Hollen·beck ....................3I9
Hollywood ....................355
Holtville ,.......................425
Honolulu ........................409.
Howard .......................... 37
Humboldt ...................... 79
. Illinoistowp ···················· 5I '
lone .................................. 80
John P . Jarman ............669
Jewell .........................:..374
Kauai ..............................589
Kaweah ..........................665
King David's ................209
La Brea ..........................650
La Fayette ...................... I26
Lakeshore ......................55I
Landmark .....................253
La Mesa ........................407
La Parfaite Union........ I7
Las Palmas ....................366
Laurel ...........................245
Le Progress de
l'Oceanie ....................371
Libertas ..........................466

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
I5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
I2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
25.00
5,00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
. 5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

5.og
I5.00
5.00

Lodge
No.
Liberty ............................299
Live Oak ........................ 6I
Lodi ................................256
Lomita ............................644
Lompoc ..........................262
Long Beach ············-······327
Los Angeles .................. 42
Los Gatos .....................292
Madera :........................280
Madison .......................... 23
Malta ..............................66I
Maricopa ........................434
Marin .............................. I91
Martinez ........................ 4I
McKinley ......................347
Mendocino .................... I79
Midway ..........................426
Military Service ..........570
Mill Valley ....................356
Mission ..........................169
Modesto ............,.............675
Molino ............................150
Monterey ........................217
Morgan Hill ..................463
Mosaic ............................218
Mountain View ............194
Mount Diablo ..............448
Mount Moriah ............ 44
Mount Oso ....................460
Natoma .......................... 64
Naval .............................. 87
Needles ..........................326
Nevada ............................ I3
Nicolaus ........................ I29
Norwalk ........................3I5
Oak Grove ..................:.215
Oakland ..........................188
Oasis ................................664
Ocean Park ..................369
Occidental ...................... 22
Oriental ..~.......................144
Orland ............................265
Oxnard ............................34I
Pacific ............................ I36
Pacific Grove ................33I
Pajaro ..........................110
Palestine ........................35I
Palisades ........................637
Palo Alto ......................346
Park ................................449
Parnassus ......................388
Pasadena ........................272
Paso Robles ..................286
Paul Revere ..................462
Penrhyn ~.........................258
Perris ..............................411

77
Amt.
10.00
I5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
30.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
7.50
15.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
20.00
20.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00 .

I

\
78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Petaluma ........................ 180
Phoenix .......................... 178
Piedmont ........................ 521
Pinole ............................353
Pittsburg ........................429
Plumas ............................ 60
Point Firmin ................ 558
Point Loma ....................620
Pomona ..........................246
Presidio ..........................354
Provident ......................600
Reading .........................254
Redondo ..........................328
Redwood City .............. 168
Richmond ...................... 375
Rio Vista ......................208
Rising Light ................397
Riverside ........................365
Rockridge ......................468
Roosevelt ........................ 500
Roseville ........................222
Russian River .............. 181
Sacramento .................... 40
San Bernardino ............348
San Diego ...................... 35
San Fernando .............. 343
San Francisco ..............360
San Gabriel .................. 546
San Gorgonio ................668
San Jacinto ....................338
San Jose ........................ 10
San Miguel .................... 85
San Pedro ......................332
San Simeon .................. 196
Santa Ana ......................241
Santa Barbara ............. .192
Santa Cruz. .................. 38
Santa Monica .............. 307
Santa Rosa .................... 57
Seaport ............................ 550
Security .......................... 581
Selma ..............................277
Semper Virens ............ 552
Sequoia .......................... 349

Amt.
2.50
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
2.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00

5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.0<i
5.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00

/

Lodge
No/
Amt.
Silver Gate .................... ?Ji6
10.00
Silver Trowel ............;4i5
15.00
Silveyville ...................1..201
10.00
Sincerity ................... ,.... 132
5.00
Sisson ......................,t..... 310
5.00
Southern Californfa......278
25.00
South Pasadena ........ 367
10.00
South San Francisco... .212
10.00
Speranza Italiana......... .219
5.00
5.00
Standard ....................... .440
St. Helena .................... 93
5.00
Starr King .................. 344
25.00
Suisun ............................ 55
5.00
Sunnyvale ...................... 511
10.00
S. W. Hackett .............. 574 ·
5.00
Taft ................................Si6
5.00
Tehachapi ......................313
15.00
Tehama .......................... 3
20.00
Temblor ............ ,............ .477
5.00
Temiple ............................ 141~ ·
5.00
. 2.50
Texas .............................. 46
Thousand Oaks ............478
10.00
5.00
Truckee ..........................200
5.00
Tuolumne ...................... 8
Union ........ ,..................... 58
25.00
5.00
Vacaville ........................ 134
5.00
Vallejo ............................487
2.50
Veritas ............................640
5.00
Victorville ....................634
10.00
Victory ........................474
20,00
Visalia ........................... .128
10.00
Washington .................. 20
10.00
Western Star ................. 2
10.00
White Pine .................... 555
2.50
Willow Glen ................676
2.50
Wilmington .................... 198
5.00
Woodbridge .................. 131
5.00
Woodland ..................... .156
5.00
Woodstock ................491
Yerba Buena ..................403
5.00
2.50
Yolo ................................ 81
5.00
Yosemite ...., .................., 99
Yount .............................. 12
~.so

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery
No.
Alameda ........................ 58
Auburn .......................... 52
Calvary .......................... 62
Chico ................................ 12
Colusa ............................ 24
Eureka ............................ 35
Fresno ............................ 29
G<>lden Gate .................. 16
(ioJ4m West .................. 43

Amt.
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
625
5.00

, Commandery
No.
Marysville ...................... 7
Mount Olivet ................ 20
Mt. Shasta .................... 32
Naval .............................. 19
Nevada .......~.................... 6
Oakland .......................... 11
Oroville .......................... 5
Pacific ............................ 3
Palo Alto ................,..... 47

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50

\

s~:~'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At~ Stco;;:;:::' - - _N;;

N•;
:.. .................. 41

10.00
10.00
2•50
2.50
2.50

San F ranc1~co ..............
San Jo.se . ..~
..............:... 10
. I
.......... 27
S an L UIS Ob
San Pedro :..~ .. i............... 60
Santa Cruz ... ."..'...... ~....... 44

Ukiah .............................. 33
38
Vacaville ........................
Visalia · ............................
26
.
22
·Watsonville ·.................. 21
.. W oodlan.d ..................... .

79

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
·5.00

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
N~.
Antioch .......................... 65 $
California ...................... 5
Chico .............................. 42
Coalinga ..........................114
Colusa ............................ 60
. Cyrus .............................. 15
El Centro ......................109
Ferndale ........................ 78
Fidelity .......................... 96
Hanford .......................... 74
Howard .......................... 14
Humboldt ........................ 52 ·
Keystone ........................ 56
Los Angeles .................. 33
Marin .....................- .......102
Mill Val1ey .................... Hl8
Modesto .......................... 49

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
.5.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
5.00
5.00

Amt.
Chapter
No.
2.50
Nevada ............................ 6
5.00
Oakland .......................... 36
5.00
Petaluma ·.................... 22
5.00
Red Bluff ........................ 40
5.00
Redondo ............... -....... 101
10.00
San Francisco .............. 1
2.50
San Luis ........................ 62
2.50
Santa Cruz .................... 38
5.00
Siloam ............................ 37
5.00
Sonora ..........,................. 2
5.00
South Pasadena ........ 112
5.00
St. Helena ...................... 63
10.00
Visalia ............................ 44
5.00
Washington ....................13
2.50
Wilmington .... ;...............141
5.00
Woodland ...................... 46

Councils, R. & S. M.
Council
No.
Amt.
Council
No.
Siskiyou
........................
24
Califor~ia .~.................... 2 $ 2.50
Valley .............. :............... 27
125
Gateway ........................ · 13
5.00
Pomona ...................... 21

Amt.
5.00
5.00

Lodges of Perfection
Amt.
Lodge
No.
$ 25.00
Sacramento .................... 4
25.00
San Francisco ................ 1
5.00
San Diego ................:..... 8
10.00

Amt.
12.50
25.00
25.00

.. . Chap·ters, 0. E. S.
Chapter
No.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
San Rafael ....................215
Mercedes ......... :.............. 126 $ lO.OO
Mill Valley ., ...........;····'.-219
lO.OO

Amt.
10.00

Lodge
No.
California ...................... 10
Fresno .-..............-............. 6
· Oakland .......................... 2
Peninsula .................... 14

Individuals and Miscellaneous
.
I
Cl
.
Berkeley High Twe ve
ub ................
·...............· ._. ................._............ ....................$ 5.00
1 00
Breckenridge, F. J., Hollywood No. 355.............................................................. 2:00
Bustamanta, A. P . ...;:;...:..................................................................................._........... 50 00
Chamberlain, Lewis, ·yearly donation .............................. ,................................... .

80

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Cowrady, Louis ···-········································································-············ ........... 3.00
East Bay Past Matrons' Association.............................................. ............. 50.00
Henkel, Howard G. ................................................................................. ............... 25.00
Johnson, A. K. ···········-········:·······-················-······································ ................. 5.00
Martin, Fred J. ················································································:;·j··················· 1.00

~:~~;;te~~~~~-a~~ -~~~~-~~---~~~~~~:. ~~~~'.. :~:.~--~·i·~-~~-i-~z:::::::::::::::::::::: 1g:~

Pollack, Max, Pacific Lodge ········-····-····························-····-························· 2.00
Villegas, L. ................................................................................................................ 2.00
Watson, Frank G. ········-······-···-·········································..._............................ 10.00
Names of Residents -

Decoto Home

Following is a complete list of residents of the Decoto Home, the date of
their admission, their respective ages, the name and number of the Lodges
nominating them and the location of such Lodges, complete to August 31, 1936.
MEN, 191. Average age, 74.02
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Akerly, James C. S .......July 26, '31 Live Oak .............. 61
Alderman, Alfred H .........Oct. 6, '26 Corinthian ···-···· 9
Allen, Harry D•..........-Apr. 15, '34 Park ····-··············449
Alseth, Lars ················-··'·Mar. 7, '34 Moneta ................405
Archer, Ernest E .............Jan. 30, '36 Palos Verdes ......389
Arnold, Charles E .....- ....May 30, '36 West Lake ..........392
Asmus, Ernest A.............Dec. 16, '34 Mill Valley ........356
Atwood, Ira A...................Sept. 7, '31 El Cajon Valley..576
Bader, Henry ................ Nov. 28, '28 King Solomon'-s....260
Bailey, Wm. J .................Dec. 25, '28 Callayomi ............282
Bang, Anders ..................Jan. 29, '30 Fresno ············-····247
Barnes, Elmer W .............July 7, '34 Liberty ...- ...........299
Barnett, Joseph ..............July 23, '33 Livingston ,.......-658
Battle, Joseph D ...............Dcc. 9, '30 Stanislaus ...........206
Beal, Charles L...............Feb. 15, '34 Hawaiian ····-······ 21
Beall, Alexander D .......Mar. 29, '36 Mount ,Moriah.... 44
Beall, Samuel J ...............May 26, '36 King Solomon's..260
Beaver, Romanus H ..... Apr: 27, '35 Olive Branch......269
Becht, George J......... Nov. 3, '35 Mission ····-···-···.169
Benmnger, Wm. G.........Mar. 27, '34 Han ford ..............279
Bentley, Isam H ..............Jan. 31, '31 Oakdale ..........-..275
Blankinship, Jos. W .......June 16, '34 Hartley ····-······--199
Bly, Carl D .........................July 7, '34 . Hollenbeck ........319
. Boehm, Hiram J .............July 19, '31 B-ig Bear ..............617
Bonde, Hans P ...................July 6, '32 Alisa! ..................-321
Bosanko, Thomas W ..... Aug. 30, '35 Gravel Range ····- 59
Bosserman, David W ....... Nov. 7,'35 South Park ........563
Bush Elmer E .........Jan. 13, '30 Alturas ................248
Camery, Ralph S .........July 5, '35 · Hill's Ferry ...-..236
Carden, Wm. L............... Nov. 27, '30 Charter Rock......410
Carey, Wm. F ................. Sept. 16, '31 San ,Pedro............332
Carr, Mell A.................-Aug. 4, '36 lone ················-···· 80
Cartwright, Harry D .....May 25, '35 Fairmount ..........435
Cassady, Earl J .................Feb. 3, '36 George Washington ··········-····-··525
Casterline, Myron N ....... Nov. 16,'32 Oceanside ........-..381

Lodge
No.
West
Gate
..........
335
Cave, Danie ..................Sept. 17, '35
Chase, Willis S .............Mar. 19, '22 Turlock ..............395
Closson, Harry ...............May 4, '31 Tuolumne ........:... 8
Cole, Geo. W . ........June 23, '33 San Benito ..........211
Collins, Nelson ........... Sept. 12,'19 Calistoga ..............233
Corson: Joseph ." ........Dec. 30, '33. Valley ..................135
Crandall, Almeron.':\.......Oct. 24, '34 Long Beach ........327
Cullen, Alexander....\, ......Feb. 4, 36 Hollywood ..........355
Delano, Ira L.....................Feb. 2, '36 Roseville ..............222
Dinesen, Jacob N ..... Nov. 1, '32 Live Oak ··········-·· 61
Dolan, John C. ................Aug. 4, '31 Redlands ..............300
Downs, Benj. F ...............June 28, '32 Silver Gate ..........296
Ekman, Gustaf A...........May 5, '35 Porterville ..........303
Engle, Wm. H ...............Dec. 12, '31 Pentalpha ..........202
Ernst, Cuno A................. Aug. 26, '32 Tehama ................ 3
Fender, Andrew J ...........Dec. 5, '30 Northern Light....190
Ferguson, Paris J ...........May 26, '34 Sotoyome ............123
Fisher, Homer C...........May 28, '32 Janesville ............232
Fitting, Hans H .•...........May 27, '33 San Bernardino..348
Foster, Henry W .............July 8, '36 Hawaiian ............ 21
Frailberger, Max............ Sept. 12, '33 Pacific ..................136
Franck, Isadore ..:...........Jan. 10, '16 La Parfaite
Union ................ 17
Fraser, Garnet W ............Oct. 19, '32 California ··········- 1
Garrett, Benj. G........... Mar. 24, '35 Consuelo ..............325
Georges, Carl L. ..........Sept. 29, '34 Balder ....•............393
Gilbert, Thomas ............May 20, '36 Sequoia ................349
• Gilmartin, Thomas E .....Oct. 28, •34 · Suisun .................. 55
Godfrey, James ..............Jan. 13, '32 Nevada ................ 13
Goodman, Wm. H ...........Oct. 20, '32 Fraternity ............399
Goodrich, Edward ..........Aug. 8, '31 Fresno ..................247
Gordon, George A ......:..June 19, '36 Chico ....................111
Gordon, Luther D...........Feb. 12, '28 Carquine~ ............337
Grant, George L ................. Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ........ 25
Greaves, Walter ..............Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ···-·············396
Gregory, George W ....... Apr. 25, '36 Sunset ..................352
Halpin, Robert L.............Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel......415
Hamblin, Abrah am L .......Jan. 8, '34 South W est..........283
Hamilton, Hiram M.....Mar. 15, '32 California ............ 1
Hamilton, Robert M ..... Apr.25, '36 Temblor ..............477
Harms, Hermann ..........Mar. 16, '31 Acacia ..................438
Harpster, Harry W ....... Nov. 5, '30 Tehachapi ............313
Harris, Elijah ···-·············July 6, '35 Pasadena ..............272
Harris, Louis ..................Jan. 13, '23 Los Angeles.......... 42
Haupt, Oscar ................June 28, '30 Naval ............. ~ .... 87
Hayes, Corwin J :............Mar. 5, '36 Covina ..................334
Hazard, Emil J . ............ Aug. 10, '25 San Jose .............. 10
Heath, James H ...............Feb. 8, '35 Santa Maria........580
Hadley, John ..................Dec. 16, '33 Golden Gate.......... 30
Henry, Albert P ....-.......Mar. 17, '34 Jordan ..................654
Herndon, Edward M .....Mar. 19, '33 Mountain View....194
Hotchkiss, Marshall E ...June 11, '30 Santa Cruz........_ 38
Hughes, Eugene F ......... Mar. 11, '33 Phoenix ................178
Hughes, Henry J .........--Dec.26, '35 Fairmount ...- ...435
Hunn, George ··········--··Aug. 1, '34 Salinas ··········-······204
.Name

lndivid1'als and Miscellaneous-Cont'd.

Town
Age
Oakland ..........75
Marysville ......74
San Francisco..66
Los Angeles......62
Long Beach....Ji9
Los Angeles......66
Mill Valley......66
El Cajon ........74
San Francisco..72
Middletown ....87
Fresno ..............77
Santa Clara......67
Livingston ....-79
Modesto ..........76
Honolulu ..........70
San Francisco..72
San: Francisco..68
Tulare ..........- ..78
San Francisco..80
Hanford ....--..70
Oakdale ............76
Lakeport ..........74
Los Angeles ..76
Pine Knot ......73
Pleasanton ......73
Camptonv:ille ....61
Los Angeles....BO
Alturas ............74
Newman ..........49
Berkeley ..........70
San Pedro ......66
Ione ..................69 •
San Francisco..71

San Francisco..65
Oceanside ........71

Admitted

81
Toum
Age ·
Los Angeles....95
Turlock ............86
Tuolumne ........67
Hollister ..........86
Calistoga ..........74
Linden ····-········79
Long Beach.....~82
Hollywood ......74
Roseville ..........81
Oakland ..........74
Redlands .........Jl
San Diego ····--70
Porterville ......82
Los Angeles ....66
Sacramento ......73
Mill ville ····-····73
Healds·burg ......92
Janesville ........63
San Bernardino87
Honolulu ..........73
San Francisco..70

San Francisco..88
San Francisco..62
Escondido ........81
San Francisco-85
Oakland ............77
Suisun ..............64
Nevada ............68
San Jose.............82
Fresno ..............81
Chico ··········-····70
Crockett ..........81
Georgetown ....74
Alameda ..........67
Los Angeles......70
Los Angeles......63
National City ..70
San Francisco..8.l
Fellows ..........-70
Los Angeles ......83
Tehachapi ........69
Pasadena ........-71
Los Angeles......60
Vallejo ····--······73
Covina ··········-··71
San Jose............72
Ramona ............73
San Francisco..87
Los Angeles......77
Mt View ........74
Santa Cruz ......73
SanBernardino83
San Francisco..66
Salinas ..............73

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Hyde, George ................ Dec. 22, '30
Hyde, Joseph H ............. June 10, '34
Jack, David .........•...........June 1, '31
Jensen, James L............... Mar. 2, '33

Lodge
No.
Mill Valley..........356
Franklin .............. 143

Johnson, Daniel F ......... Sept. 16, '29
Journal, Philip S ............. Mar. 6, '27
Keith, Herbert B........... Nov. 17, '33
Kellogg, Irving M........... Dec. 2, '30
Kimball, John C.. ........... Mar. 27, '33
Kinchin, Peter .........•..... Nov. 4, '35
Kittridge, Charles H ....... Nov. 4, '33
Knockenhaur, Herman....July 21, '35
Kuppfer, John A ...........Feb.10, '34
Lagomarsino, G............. May 12, '22

Dinuba ................385
Sequoia ................34SA
Oriental .............. 14'
Chula Vista ..........626
Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Mariposa ........ ..,..... 24
Hollenbeck ..........319
Humboldt ............ 79
Alisa! ··········-····---321
Speranza ltaliana ........•...........219
La Fayette .......... 126
Hollenbeck ..........319
Santa Monica......307
Mission ............... .169
Pasadena ..............272
South Gate ........320
Union .................. 58
Santa Cruz ............ 38
Eden .................... 113
La Mesa ..............407
Alpha .....................431
Mosaic ..................218
South Gate ..........320
University ............394
Laurel ..................245
Monterey ..............217
Redondo ..............328
Durant ............... .268
Southern California ................278
Speranza Italiana ~ ...................219
La Fayette ··-·····.126
Golden State........358
Solano ..................229
Alcatraz ..............244
Las Palmas ..........366
Doric ....................216
Santa Ana............241
Vesper ......,........... 84
Clay ...................... 101
Lassen .................. 149
Mission ................169
Pasadena ..............272
Golden W est ....... .455
Consuelo ..............325
Hartley .:....,; ........ .199
Union················-·· 58

Laton, Edward L .............Apr. 23, '32
Laurence, Guardon C.......Apr. 8, '36
Lehmann, August H ..... Dec. 14, '28
Libby, Charles F ........... Dec. 18, '31
Lynch, Walter C. .............. Feb. 8, '36
Marsh, Charles P ........... Oct. 10, '31
Marshall, Joseph O ....... May 23, '35
Martin, Benj. R. ............ May 15, '24
Matson, Martin B ..... Dec. 15, '27
Matthews, Elbert C. ......July 10, '35
Mayfield, George.......... Sept. 22, '35
McClain, Charles A .... _.Jan. 26, '33
McDonald, Frank. ......... Nov. 21, '26
McDowell, Wm. M ......... Apr. 6, '36
McRae, Alexander ........ Oct. 20, '30
Messe, George Wm ...June 21, '34
Metcalf, Chris D ........... Apr. 19, '35
Mikkelsen, Christian......July 30, '36
Millar, David S ............... Apr. 2, '32
Millisich, Chris ..................Oct. 5, '31
Morris, Harry.B ...... .'.... Nov. 28, '30
Morrison, Geo. D ........... Mar. 20, '30
Morrison, Wm. F ......... June 27, '32
Murden, Robert ]. ........ Mar. 26, '28
Myers, Wm. P ...................Feb. 1, '32
N annestad, Henrik. ......... Mar. 8, '23
Nichols, Thomas L ........... Apr. 3, '36
North, Edwin B.... _......... Apr. 2, '29
Oates, Lewis D ................ Feb. 3, '34
Otto, Fred A ................... Feb. 23, '30
Owens, Wm. L ............. Aug. 12, '22
Parker, David N ........... Mar. 14, '33
Peppin, Raymond C. .... Mar. 14, '34
Plowman, Alfred R. .. :.. _Jan. 17, '30
Porter, Fred:............... Attg. 29, '33
Potter, Loyal A .............Jan. 21, '30

McKinley ···-·······347
Texas .................... 46

I

I

To
Age
Mill alley ......77
Co tland ........87
Rj(;hmond ........ 72
sitn Juan Bau/ tista ..............74
Dinuba .....: ........85
Oakland ..........85
San Francisco..73
Chula Vista......81
San Francisco..79
Maricopa ..........75
Los Angeles ......72
Eureka ..............63
Pleasanton ......69
San Francisco..80
Sebastopol ........71
Los Angeles ......61
-Santa Monica..77
San Francisco..77
Pasadena ..........61
Los Angeles ....•.73
Sacramento ......73
Santa Cruz ........71
San Leandro....79
La Mesa............68
Richmond ........71
Livermore ........82 •
Los Angeles ......82
Los Angeles ...... 79
Willows ............ 72
Monterey ........65
RedondoBeach 72
Berkeley ..........74
Los· Angeles ...... 78
San Francisco..72
Sebastopol ......72
Los Angeles ......72
Vallejo ............74
Oakland ............70
Fresno ..............67
San Francisco..90
Santa Ana........69
Red Bluff... .......79
Dutch Flat.. ......74
Susanville •....... 70
San Francisco.. 77
Pasadena '..........89
San Francisco.. 61
Escondido ........83
Lakeport .......... 77
Sacramento ......77

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

83

Nmne
Admitted
Quilt
E ...............Feh. 1, '33
Rawlings, Levi... .............July 11, '33
Rigiletti, Robe~t... ........... Mar. 9, '18
Rummelsburg, ;\lex........ July 10, '33
Russell, George McC. ...... Feb. 2, '34

Lodge
, No.
Friendship ............ 210
Northern Light..100
Pentalpha ............202
Oxnard ................ 341
Beverly Hills ........ 528

Town
Age
San Jose ..........83
Millville ..........69
Los Angeles ...... 84
Oxnard ............82
Beverly Hills ....73

Sangster, Donald.............. Oct. 4, '32
Sarwine, C. H .........June 10, '36
Schlichting, Martin........ May 16, '35
Scott, Walter L............... April 1, '34
Sebree, Charles H ......... Mar. 21, '36
Senestrari, Jacob T ....... Mar. 27, '33
Seymour, Milton .............. Feh. 1, '36
Shaw, Rupert... ................. Nov. 4, '34
Srnith, Charles .................. Sept. 2, '31
Smith, Roland A ............. Jan. 29, '27
Smith, William C........... Apr. 25, '28
Sniffen, Samuel T ........... Jan. 31, '33
Soulier, Joseph ................ Feb. 18, '35
Standeford, Wm. B....... Nov. 12, '29
Stevens, Charles D ........ .Apr. 6, '32
Swedberg, Eric ................ Oct. 1g, '29

Mendocino .......... 179
Monrovia ............308
Seaport ................ 550
Burlingame ........400
Pacific Grove ......331
Monterey ............217
Honolulu ........:. .....409
Evergreen ............259
Georgetown ........ 25
Callayomi ............282
Oakland ................ 188
West Lake............392
Mount Moriah...... 44
Live Oak .............. 61
Santa Rosa ........ 57
Reading ..............254

Mendocino ......80
Monrovia ........76
San Francisco..63
Burlingame ......63
Pacific Grove .. 75
Monterey ........72
Honolulu ..........66
Riverside ..........72
Georgetown ....76
Middletown ....76
Oakland ..........76
Los Angeles ......81
San Francisco.. 80
Oakland ~ .........69
Santa Rosa ......85
Redding ............ 81

Taylor, George McC. .... July 14, '25
Theiss, Henry D...........Jan. 27, '34
Thomas, Wm. E ............. Apr. 26, '33
Thompson, John W ....... Aug. 11, '34
Travelli, Joseph.............. Sept. 24, '32
Traverse, John ..................May 7, '36
Trenschel, A. F ........... Sept. 18, '25
Trost, John H ............... Mar. 15, '32
Tucker, Ira W ............... May 12, '33

Excelsior ....... ~ ... 166
Washington ........ 20
San Diego .......... 35
Caledonia ............486
Oakdale ..............275
Evening Star ......186
Live Oak ............ 61
Ferndale ~-·········· .. 193
San Jose .............. 10

San Francisco.. 74
Sacramento ...... 59
San Diego........82
Bakersfield ...... 71
Oakdale ............74
Etna ..................72
Oakland ..........85
Ferndale ..........82
San Jose .......... 82

Umbsen, Henry P ........... July 13, '35
Viles, Charleton H ....... Oct. 24, '29
Waite, Fred......................July 16, '35
Ward, Kenneth L ......... Nov. 16, '35
Wallace, Robert G...June 23, '34
Watkins, David K., Nov. 29, '31
Wells, Thomas W., Aug. lo, '36
Weston, Frank .......... Mar. 4, '33
Whitaker, George A., Jan. 30, ·32
White, Frank .............. Mar. 1, '36
White, William E., Mar. 10, '35
Whiteside, William .. Dec. 5, '35
Wigginton, J. W ..... July 15, '29
Wilhelm, Frederic G., Oct. 25, '27

California ............ 1
Abell ....................146
Delano ................309
Yreka .................... 37
Petaluma ............ 180
Paul Revere ..... .462
Tuolumne .......... 8
St. Helena .......... 93
Caledonia ..........486
Nevada .............. 13
Marin .................. 191
Amity .................. 370
S. W. Hackett .. 574
La Parfaite
Union ................ 17
Petaluma .......... 180
Enterprise ........ 70
Fortitude ............624
Parnassus ........ 388
Fraternity .......... 399
Amity ................ 370
Mount Oso ....... .460
University ...... :.394

San Francisco.. 69
Ukiah ................79

Williard, Thomas .... Aug. 23, '27
Williams, Clayton E., Dec. 15, '35
Williams, W. J ......... May 8, '32
Wilson, Charles ...... Sept. 22, '32
Wil~on, George ........ Mar. 31, '36
Witcosky, John A. .. Sept. 16, '30
Wood, Uriah S ......... Aug. 21, '31
Yarrington, J. T .•..... Feb. 26, '29

Delano ..............64
Yreka ................77
Petaluma ........ 79
San Francisco 64
Sonora -~---~~ ..... 79
St. Helena ......77
Bakersfield .... 80
Nevada City ..90
San Rafael ...... 79
San Francisco 72
San Diego ...... 79
San Francisco 82
Petaluma .. :..... 75
Yuba City ......75
Oakland ........ 64
San Francisco 68
San Jose ........ 71
San Francisco 57
Tracy ..............78
Los Angeles .. 74

I

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

WOMEN, 161, Average age, 73.01

Name
Admitted
Albrecht, Ruth R. ........Jan. 5, '33
Anderson, Hilda C. .. Oct. 28, '34
Appleton, Minnie P., Aug. 1, '~16
Archer, Phelia E., .... Mar. 2, '34
Armantage, Theresa A.....Jan. 5, '19
Atwood, Ida I. .......... Sept. 7, '31
Augustine, Jean D., Sept. 2, '35
Bane, Annabell E., ....July 20, '32
Bane, Florence A., Nov. 13, '28
Barnes, Elaine G...........July 7, '34
Batholomew, Helen S.,Mar.21,'35
Barton, Annie N ..... Aug. 27, '33
Beall, Iola H ............. May 26, '36
Becker, Elizabeth A., Jan. 5, '31
Bell, Florence C. ........July 30, '33
Bemis, Ellen J ...........June.26, '29
Berge, Lilly B......... Sept. 30, '26
Bernstein, Cornelia ..June 26, ·24
Beuzeville, Marian C. Aug. 5, '35
Blinn, Sophia W .....Jan. 20, '30
Bolting, Isadore L ... Dec. 29, '33
Bradley, Nannie ........ Apr. 30, '25
Broughton, Anne E., Sept. 6, '34
Brown, Lima C. ........ May 25, '34
Brown, Rosalind V., Mar. 27, '24
Burnett Ethlan R. .... Feb. 9, '36

Lodge
No.
Selma •................. 277
Crockett ............ 139
Live Oak ............ 61
Landmark ..........2.53
Needles ..............326
El Cajon ......:..... 576
Marin ................ 1'1

Orland ................265
Rockridge ........-468
Liberty ......•....•. .299
Mt. Jackson ......295
Truckee ..............200
King Solomon's 260
Santa Ana ........241
Standard ........... .440
Dinuba ..............385
West Gate ........335
Berkeley ······-···363
Long Beach ...... 327
Truckee ..............200
Silver Gate ........ 296
Oriental ..............144
Magnolia ............ 242
Bethlehem ........453
Natoma .............. 64
Las Palmas ......366
Carey, Laura E. ........ Sept. 16, '31 San Pedro ..........332
Carlson, Laura L. ...... Feb. 10, '20 Excelsior ............ 166
Carney, Nellie ................ Apr. 8, '36 Chico ..................111
Cass, Mary E .............July 7, '28 Sisson ................310
Cassidy, Lottfe ............ May 30, '33 Silver Gate ........296
Casterline, Mary A., Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ..........381
Coar, Lydia E ......... Feb. 11, '34 Alexander Graham Bell .......... 595
C9hn, Sarah.................. Sept. 8, '22 Los Angeles ...... 42
Collister Mary L .•...Jan. 19, '30 Vitrivius ............ 145
Conway, Sarah B..... Aug. 26, '36 · Olivet :...............205
Cope, Ida L ............. Nov. 19, '32 Charter Rock ....410
Copeland, Wilhelmina July 11,'32 Golden Gate ...... 30
Cornell, Mabel............ Dec. 14, '35 Charity .............. 362
Cowley, Cerita ]. .... Sept. 18, '25 Berkeley ............363
Crawley, Nellie G... Dec. 19, '27 Willits ................365
Crill, Flora A. ................ Dec. 1, '28 Valley ...............:135
Crystal, Agnes .......... Nov. 20, '32 So. San Fran .....212
Davis, Fannie ............June 24, '34 Mount Moriah ....44
Davis, Grace G.........July 25, '16 Naval .................. 87
de Haven, Flora L. .... Feb. 3, '35 South Gate ........ 320
Dickson, Alice W ...June 11, '21
Pacific ................ 136
Drew, Minnie ............ Oct. 20, '33 Unity ..................368
Dunn, Annie C. ..............June 22, '25
Oroville .............. 103
Elder, Ellena R,. ......... Sept. 18, '28 Corinthian .......... 9
Ellis, Mildred A ........... Mar. 30, '34 Mission ................ 169

I
I

I

./

1/Jwn
Age
S(!ma ..............80
Jan Francisco 58
Oakland .......... 59
Esparto ..........82
Needles ..........79
El Cajon •....... 71
San Rafael .... 79
Orland ............69
Oakland ..........71
Santa Clara ....66
Guerneville ....76
Truckee ..........84
San Francisco 61
Santa Ana ......79
Oakland ..........75
Dinuba ..........86
Los Angeles ..82
Berkeley ........77
Lo.ng B each ....69
.Truckee ..........76
San Diego .... 77
San Francisco 68
Santa BarbaraSO
San Francisco 80
Folsom City 81
Fresno ............61
San Pedro ......65
San Francisco 73
Chico ..............84
Mt. Shasta .... 80
San Diego ....75
Oceanside ......63
Los Angeles .. 84
Los Angeles .. 79
Bloomfield · ...:82
Corning ..........77
Berkeley ...:....76
San Francisco 63
Campbell ........ 53
Berkeley ........80
Willits ....:....... 76
Linden ............69
San Francisco 68
San Francisco SO
Vallejo ..•......... 82
Los Angeles ..73
San Francisco 76
Glendale .....••.76
Oroville ............89
Marysville .::...77
San Francisco..74

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Felter, Eliza D ...............]uly 24, '23
Felton, Mary M ......... Oct. 3, '34
Ferguson, Hattie M..... May 25, '34
Ferguson, Ruth R. ........ May 26, '34
Fetrow, Dora L........... May 11, '35
Fitting, Alice M......... May 27, '33
Fortriedr, Auguste E ..... Apr. 24, '25
Foster, Elizabeth M.......July 8, '36
Foster, Nellie G.............June 21, '30
Garnett, Katherine M... Apr. 13, '36
Goodman, Orpheus O ... Oct. 20, '32
Gordon, Emma ............June 27, '36
Gordon, Isabel C. .......... Feb. 12, '28
Grant, Lillian A. .............. Oct. 6, '32
Greaves, Margaret I....... Oct. 18, '32
Gregg, Letitia ............ Dec. 4, '32
Gregory, Emily ..............June 6, '33
Griffith, Rose L. ............ Mar. 26, '36
Halek, Albertine C......... Dec. 29, '32
Harris, Louise C. .......... Feb. 19, '33
Hattersley, Emily K..... Aug. 19, '33
Hazard, Marie ............ Aug. 10, '25
Heitman, Evelyn S ........... Apr. 3, '33
Hibbard, Elizabeth...... Mar. 22, '30
Hill, Barbara M.............July 26, '27
Honey, Alice ..................July 22, '34
Hughes, Laura H ......... Mar. 11, '33
Hutchinson, Sara J .....June 11, '34
Irvine, Adelaide H ......... Nov. 4, '31
Jack, Mary......................June 1, '31
Jackson, May R. .......... Aug. 27, '25
James, Jennie L~ ............ Nov. 19, '33
Jenkins, Mary E ............. May 21, '31
Johnson, Jane H ...............Jan. 6, '34
Jones, Camilla T •............ Apr. 8, '34
Keenan, Effie ................July 17, '33
Kellogg, Lillie F ............. Dec. 2, '30
Kelso, Katherine McD ... Apr. 26, '35
Kidd, Millie A ............... Aug. 21, '32
Kimball, Annette C. ...... Aug. 3, '32
Kimball, Camelia L....... Sept. 19, '26
Kimball, Lila M........... Mar. 27, '33
Klevesahl, Catharine .... Aug. 27, '35
Knight, Frances H ....... May 21, '36
Knight-White, Alda B. Mar. 6, '34
Langworthy, Martha E. July 23, '26
Laufman, Anna ......,. ..... Aug. 27, '24
Lightner, Sarah J ........... Oct. 9, '28
Lillie, Amelia F ........... May 23, '32
Lindsley, Luella P ....... Aug. 16, '34
Longfellow, Sarah ...... Nov. 15, '31
Mann, Bertha M...........June 10, '33
Masse, Eleanor R. ........ May 22, '36
Mast, Frances C........... Aug. 31, '12

Lodge
No.
King Solomon's ..260
Mt. Davidson ......481
Silver Gate..........296
Sotoyome ............123
Corinthian ............ 9
San '.Bernardino .. 348
Crockett ............ ,.139
Hawaiian ............ 21
Berkeley ..............363
Silveyville ..........201
Fraternity ............399
Occidental ............ 22
Carquinez ............337
Georgetown ........ 25
Apollo ..................396
Durant ................268
Concord ................ 117
Enterprise ~--········· 70
Victory ................474
Pacific ..................136
Henry Clay ........ 95
San Jose ............ 10
Union .................... 58
Oakland ............188
Brooklyn ..............225
Keystone .............. 161
Phoenix .............. 178
Liberty ................299
Sacramento .......... 40
McKinley ............347
Lompoc ................262
Live Oak ............ 61
Durant ..................268
Presidio ................354
Occidental ............ 22
Jewell ..................374
Chula Vista ..........626
Redwood City...... 168
Amity ....................370
Enterprise ............ 70
San Francisco......360
Mount Moriah .... 44
Hermann ..............127
California ............ 1
California ............ 1
San Pedro ............332
Sincerity .............. 132
Starr King .......... 344
Woodland ............ 156
Morning Star ...... 68
Truckee .. :...........200
Naval ............•....... 87
Yount .................... 12
Yosemite .............. 99

85

Town
Age
San Francisco..74
·San Francisco.. 61
San Diego........64
Healdsburg ....79
Marysville ......67
SanBernardino66
San Francisco..59
Honolulu ........67
Berkeley ..........73
Dixon ..............72
San Jose ..........82
San Francisco.. 57
Crockett ..........62
Georgetown ....62
Alameda .......... 56
Berkeley .......... 80
Sacramento ....68
Yuba •......., .......70
San Francisco..72
San Francisco.. 61
Sutter Creek....76
San Jose ..........66
Sacramento ...... 80
Oakland ..........79
Oakland ..........73
Milton .............. 77
SanBernardino81
Santa Clara .... 74
Sacramento ......87
Richmond ........69
Lompoc ............77
Oakland ..........74
Berkeley ..........66
San Francisco..70
San Francisco..66
San Francisco.. 59
Chula Vista...... 80
Redwood City.. 71
San Francisco..69
Yuba City..........74
San Francisco.. 71
San Francisco..65
San Francisco.. 80
San Francisco..83
San Francisco .. 77
San Pedro ...... 66
Greenville ........ 85
San Francisco.. 76
Woodland , ....... 84
Stockton ..........70
Truckee ............69
Vallejo ............ 68
Napa ................63
Merced ............91

86

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
· Admitted
Martien, Alice ............ AUg. 31, '33
Matthews, Louise L.......Aug. 7, '22
Mayfield, Mary ]......... Sept. 22, '35
McDowell, Alice M ..... Mar. 24, '32
McGuire, Mary ............July 14, '26
McKinney, Daisy .......... May 22, '36
McLean, Lucy A ...........N ov. 28 '34
Mercer, Viola ................ Oct. 17,' '34
Miller, Esther J ............. Mar. 5, '34
Mills, Kate D .............Mar. 21, '28
Moore, Mary S .............May 9, '33
Newman, Susanna .......... ] une 4, '29
Nielson, Mary V ........... Nov. 21, '27
Noble, Grace F .............]uly 4, '32
Nutter, Martha L ..... Mar. 25, '23
Pankow, Catherine .. Apr. 29, '39
Parks, Rosa W . .... May 12, '36
Peairs, Lillian W ..... Feb. 11, '35

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Peppin, Jennie M ....... Mar. 14, '34
Ferry, Mary C. ........May 12, '30
Phillips, Sarah J ..... Feb. 22, '32
Rackerby, Elizabeth, Mar. 29, '30
Rickard, Jennie S......... Dec. 7, 'J2
Rogers, Leonora ........ Oct. 6, '25

Lodge
No.
Chico .................... 111
Yount .................. 12
Alpha ....................431
Alcatraz ..............244
Alcatraz ..............244
Redwood City...... 168
Excelsior ............166
Pasadena ......, .......272
Oriental .............. 144
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Redwood City......168
Antioch ................ 175
Santa Cruz............ 38
Trinity ................ 27
East Gate ..........290
Crockett ............139
Yount ................ 12
Normal
Heights ..........632
Golden West ....455
Mendocino ........ 179
Mission .............. 169
Crockett ............139
Parnassus ..........388
King David's ......209

Root, Emma F ......... Dec. 2, '32
Roscoe, Nettie P . ....] an. 13, '32
Rownan, Matilda ....Aug. 11, '36
Russell, Elvira H ......... Feb. 2, '.34
Sandell, Selma S ....... Dec. 31, '31
Schmidt, Ella M ..... Mar. 18, '34
Seymour, Laura ........ Feb. 1, '36
Shearin, Eliza E ....... Mar. 16, '31
Smay, Madge M .......June 11, '36
Sniffen, Eugenia B. ..] an. 31, '33
Soale, Carl B............. May 15, '32
Starbuck, Catherine S., Feb. 24, '32
Stevens, Isabella A . .... Apr. 6, '32
Stevenson, Sarah...... ] une 30, '33
Stewart, Mary ........ Mar. 12, '32
Surface, Emma .......... Aug. 19, '16
Teall, Lena .............. Aug. 22, '32
Terrell, Cynthia E . Sept. 15, '27
Thomas, Ida ............ Nov. 23, '32
Thompson, Celia ...... Dec. 16, '33
Torr, Georgina R .......Jan. 14, '33
Vale, Olive B. ........June 18, '36
Walton, Ida M .........June 22, '25
Weigel, May L. ........Apr. 10, '32
West, Eva L ................... Aug. 9, '23
West, Henrietta B......... May 10, '30
Wetzel, Laura C. ............Dec. 18, '35
Wilcox, Edith .................. May 3, '36
Williams, Lillias.............. May 8, '32

Occidental ........ 22
Oroville ..............103
Sunnyside .......... 577
Beverly Hills .... 528
Martinez ............ 41
Charter Rock ......410
Honolulu ..........409
Pajaro ........:....... 110
Alcatraz ............244
West Lake ........392
Corona · ..............324
J. A. Foshay ....641
Santa Rosa .......... 57
California .......... 1
Concord ............ 117
Ione .................... 80
Golden Gate ...... 30
Yosemite .......... 99
Bear Mountain 76
Eden ..................113
Elmhurst ............610
Bethlehem ........453
Oakland ............188
Marin .................. 191
Mission .................169
Santa Rosa.......... 57
Presidio ................354
Durant ................268
Fortitude ............624

Towrn
Age
Chico ................83
Napa ................81
Richmond ........64
Oakland ..........60
Oakland ..........83
Redwood City..61
San Francisco..60
Pasadena ..........81
San Francisco..69
Santa Cruz........76
Redwood City..73
Antioch ............74
Santa Cruz........75
Weaverville ..76
Los Angeles ..81
San Francisco 71
Napa ..............84
San Diego ....67
San Francisco 58
Mendocino ....69
San Francisco 82
San Francisco 78
San Francisco 81
San Luis
Obispo ........77
San Francisco 71
Oroville ..........65
Los Angeles .. 71
Beverly Hills 72
Martinez ........70
Berkeley ........ 72
Honolulu ........58
Watsonville ..81
Oakland ..........69
Los Angeles ....71
Pasadena ........79
Los Angeles ..65
Santa Rosa ....79
San Francisco 92
Sacramento' ..66
Ione ................83
San Francisco 73
Merced ..........81
Angels Camp 67
San Leandro ..65
Oakland ........70
San Francisco 79
Oakland ..........77
San Rafael ....71
San Francisco..82
Santa Rosa ......84
San Francisco..74
Berkeley ..........69
Oakland ..........65

Admitted
Name
Wilson, Maryan .......... Mar. 31, '36
W ithers, Phoebe............June 13, '27
Yarrington, Grace M. Feb. 26, '29
Date Began
Dec. 7, 1928
April,
1934
Sept. 28, 1932
June,
1936
May,
1933
Dec.,
1931
Feb. 28, 1931
Oct. 28, 1934
Sept'. 28, 1934
Nov.,
1935
April 28, 1935
May,
1929
July,
1935
April,
1933
June,
1933
June,
1925
J uly,
1931
Dec. 28, 1934.
Dec. 28, 1934
March, 1924
June,
1932
Feb.,
1934
Jan. 28, 1935
April,
1932
Aug.,
1930
June 28, 1934
June,
1933
May 28, 1935
Jan.,
1933
Oct. 5, 1934
Aug.,
1935
Feb.
1929
Dec.,
1930
July,
1936
March, 1934
April 28, 1935
Nov.,
1932
Nov.,
1932
Nov.,
1932
Feb.,
1931
Sept.,
1932
June,
1929
Nov.L
1933
April 28, 1935
April,
1933
Feb.,
1927
Feb.,
1930
July,
1935
Feb.,
1932
Dec.,
1933

Lodge
No.
Fraternity ............399
East Belt..............391
University ............394

87
Age
Town
San Jose............70
Tuolumne ........83
Los Angeles......66

Outside Relief-Adults
M on.thly
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Mrs. ]. ]. Terry....:.................Western Star No. 2........$25.00
Sarah C. Vermilya.............- .. Tehama No. 3.................. 20.00
Arthur M. S tillwelL.............Washington No. 20........ 30.00
Mary F. Robertson................Washington No. 20........ 30.00
Edgar L. Lewis ......................Hawaiian No. 21............ 15.00
Ella Y. Shanks ........................Hawaiian No. 21............ 25.00
Mary J. Wilgeroth ................Hawaiian No, 21............ 25.00
Mary Ellen Day.................... Occidental No. 22.......... 15.00
Madeline Torry ......................Golden Gate No. 30........ 25.00
Cyrus Field Willard..............San Diego No. 35............ 25.00
Mary L. Kemp ........................Texas No. 46.................... 25.00
Silas W. Williams ................,.Forbestown No. 50........ 30.00
Clarence E . Parker................ Natoma No. 64................ 15.00
Benj. George Ross ................lone No. 80.......................... 15.00
John A. Lundey ...................... Yolo No. 81...................... 30.00
Frances M. Jack......................Chico No. 111.................. 30.00
Robert A. Martin ..................Eden No. 113.................... 25.00
Leon J acobs ..............................Fidelity No. 120.,....- ..... 25.00
F lorence Jacobs ......................Fidelity No. 120.............. 25.00
George W. Forsythe...........,..La Fayette No. 126........ 30.00
Mrs. Bert L. Whitehea<l......W oodbridge No. 131...... 15.00
Del Eleanor Connor.......:.......Curtis No. 140.................. 20.00
Robert F . Green...................... Curtis No. 140.....,..........•. 20.00
Minnie McFarlane.................. F ranklin No. 143............ 15.00
Kittie May White.................... Excelsior No. 166............ 10.00
Frances C. Phillips ................Phoenix No. 178.................. 20.00
Martha L. Fortin....................Oakland No. 188................ 30.00
Oscar B. Lauff........................Marin No. 191.................... 25.00
Stella M. Jewell......................Rio Vista No. 208............ 25.00
Emma I. McManus................King.David's No. 209........ 20.00
Julia E. Lamb.......- ................King David's No. 209...... 25.00
Adolph Isaac .........:....:...........Doric No. 216.................... 30.00
Addie Cohn ............................Monterey No. 217.............. 30.00
Kathryn Steele ......................Inyo No. 221........................ 30.00
Lyman H. Barber and wife..Roseville No. 222................ 35.00
Harvey R. Lacy........~.......:....Solano No. 229.................. 25.00
Wm. M. Thomas and wife..Santa Ana No. 241............ 30.00
Rudolf Oppenheim and wlfe Santa Ana No. 241............ 30.00
Mrs. Prince L. Tople............Santa Ana No. 241 .......... 15.00
Mrs. Iva B. Llewellyn ............Reading No. 254................ 30.00
Mrs. Mabel C. Gupton..........Reading No. 254.................. 20.00
Jam es A. Bowen......................Lodi No. 256........................ 30.00
Richard Burrows ···--·-·········Penrhyn No. 258...~ ........... 25.00
Amanda G. Snyder._............Lompoc No. 262.................. 15.00
Ida Schwartz ..........................Hesperian No. 264.............. 25.00
Cora Lee Bennetf..............~...So. California No. 278. ... 25.00
Clara Scott .........::............,._..So. California No. 278.... 15.00
Lucy V. Parr............................Winnedumah No. 287........ 25.00
]. W m. Rumbek......................Mt. Jackson No. 295.......... 25.00
Alice C. Powell ......................Silver Gate No. 296........ 10.00

Date Began

July,
1934
July,
1927
Jan.,
1934
July,
1936
Nov.,
1930
June,
1929
March, 1936
Jan.,
1929
Feb.,
1933
April,
1936
March, 1934
Dec.,
1932
Aug. 28, 1934
Jan.,
1936
Oct.,
1931
Dec. 28, 1934
Nov. 28, 1934
July,
1934
Aug.,
1935
Oct.,
1932
June,
1934
June,
1933
Dec.,
1929
Sept.,
1932
March, 1929
July,
1934
Dec.,
1932
Sept.,
1933
Nov. 29, 1933
Sept. 28, 1934
Jan.,
1936
June,
1933
Oct.,
1932
Feb.
1933
Aug.,
1933
Jan. 28, 1935
July,
1931
June 28, 1935

Name

Lodge

Monthly
.Allowances

Ruby L. Bunger.................. _Ontario No. 301................ 25.00
Walter J. Smith......·-····-······Sisson No. 310.-.............. 25.00
Lizzie Kingsley ................•.....Hollenbeck No. 319 ............ 20.00
lngvel 0. Nielsen and wife .. Fruitvale No. 336.............. 50.00
Margaret K. Williams ......-Fruitvale No. 336.............. 30.00
H. Truitt ······----······-··········Fruitvale No. 336................ 30.00
Sidney Clack ·······-···-··-····Palo Alto No. 346............ 15.00
John M. Keeley ......................Sequoia No. 349.................. 30.00
Beulah M. Fitch--··············-··Hollywood No. 355 ............ 25.00
Raymond A. Gardner.....•.... _Golden State No. 358........ 25.00
Clarence S. Biser and wife.. San Francisco No. 360...... 22.50
Rachael H. Van Nest............ San Francisco No. 360...... 25.00
Mrs. Wm. Huff ··-····-············Ocean Park No. 369.......... 15.00
Theaa R. Conaway ........- .....•Huntington Beach No. 380 10.00
Daniel deBarrows and wife.. Balder No. 393 ................ 13.50
·Mary W. Mackenzie .....·-···-·Bay View No. 401............ 15.00
Frank Gould and wife .......... Charter Rock No. 410........ 25.00
Jos. A. Patton and wife...... Charter Rock No. 410........ 50.00
John M. Berdan and wifc ....Elysian No. 418 ................ 50.00
Anna E. Curryer.......·-····---Elysian No. 418.................. 25.00
Earl H. Howard and wife....Elysian No. 418 .................. 50.00
Lillian E. Mincey....•...........:...Upland No. 419.................. 25.00
John W. Moore and wife ....Exeter No. 424.................... 30.00
Manford E. Tucker............ _.Midway No. 426................ 20.00
George F. Geibel...........•........Fairmount No. 435 ............ 30.00
Jennie N. Hanlin.......••....- .....Mt. Diablo No. 448............ 25.00
Albert P. Fonte and wife ......Libertas No. 466................ 45.00
Louis W. Hills-···--·········-·Golden Rule No. 479........ 30.00
Mrs. Wm. Crilley..•...............Atascadero No. 493 ............ 25.00
John Dunn •...................•.........Atascadero No. 493 ............ 30.oo ·
Ellen S. Thomas .......·-··--····-Euclid No. 519.... ~ ....... ;....... 20.00
James F. Price ....................- ..Bellflower No. 523............ 25.00
Herbert J. Middlemist... ........... Seal Rock No. 536............ 30.00
Albert H. Kimmeritz............ Signal No. 543.................... 20.00
Arthur G. Cartwright......- .... East San Diego No. 561.... 35.00
Lionel Compeigne ·-·····-·-·East San Diego No. 561.. 25.00
Robert E. Mims and wife...... Citrol No. 656.................... 40.00
C. A. Ryan ............................•...Baldwin Park No. 660...... 20.00

Departures di1ring t~e year, 2
Name
Agt
Lodgt
No.
Peterson, Lucy ............................ 67 Argonne .............. 514
Schmidt, Edward .......................... 68 Golden Gate .......... 30

89

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

88

Date
March 10, '36
Feb. 15, '36

Admitted during the year, Men, 36. Average age, 72.08
Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Archer, Ernest E .........Jan. 30, '36 Palos Verdes .... 389
Long Beach ..69
Arnold, Charles E ... May 30, '36 West Lake ........392 Los Angeles ..66
Beall, Alex D ............. Mar. 29, '36 Mount Moriah .. 44 San Francisco 72
Beall, Samuel J ......... May 26, '.36 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco 68
Becht, George J ..... Nov. 3, '35 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco 80
Bosanko, Thomas W. Aug. 30, '35 Gravel Range .... 59 Camptortville 61
Bosserman, David W. Nov. 7, '35 South Park ...... 563 Los Angeles ..80
Carr, Mell A ................. Aug. 4, '36 Ione .................... 80 Ione ................69
Cassady, Earl J ......... Feb. 3, '36 Geo. Washington 525
San Francisco 65

Name
Admitted
Cave, Daniel ............ Sept. 17, '35
Cullen, Alexander ...... Feb. 4, '35
Delano, Ira L ............. Feb. 2, '36
Foster, Henry W ......... July 8, '36
Gilbert, Thomas .....-.May 20, '36
Gordon, George A ..... June 19, '36
Gregory, George W. Apr. 25, '36
Hamilton, Robert M. Apr. 25, '36
Hayes, Corwin J .........Mar. 5, '36
Hughes, Henry J ..... Dec. 26, '35
Kinchin, Peter ............ Nov. 4, '35
Laurence, Guerdon C., Apr. 8, '36
Lynch, Walter C........•Feb. 8, '36
Mayfield, George .... Sept. 22, '.35
McDowell, Wm. M .•... Apr. 6, '36
Mikkelsen, Christian, July 30, '36
Nichols, Thomas L ... Apr. 3, '36
Sarwine; Christian H. June 10, '36
Sebree, Charles H., Mar. 21, '36
Seymour, Milton ........ Feb. 1, '36
Traverse, John .............. May 7, '36
Ward, Kenneth L ..... Nov. 16. '35
Wells, Thomas W .....Aug. 10, '36
White, Frank ................ Mar. 1, '36
Whiteside, William ...... Dec. 5, '35
Williams, Clayton E ... Dec. 15, '35
Wilson, George .......... Mar. 31, '36

Lodge
No.
West Gate ........335
Hollywood ........ 355
Roseville ............222
Hawaiian ............ 21
Sequoia ..............349
Chico .................. 111
Sunset ................ 352
Temblor ........... .477
Covina ................334
Fairmount ....... .435
Mariposa ............ 24
Hollenbeck ........319
Pasadena ............272
Alpha ..................431
University .......... 394
Durant ................268
Santa Ana ..........241
Monrovia .......... 308
Pacific Grove .... 331
Honolulu ........... .409
Evening Star .... 186
Howard .............. 37
Tuolumne .......... 8
Nevada .............. 13
Amity .................. 370
Enterprise ........ 70
Fraternity ............ 399

Town
Agt
Los Angeles ..95
Hollywood .... 74
Roseville .. :.....81
Honolulu ........ 73
Oakland .......... 77
Chico ..............70
Los Angeles ..71
Fellows .......... 70
Covina ............71
San Francisco 66
Mariposa ........ 75
Los Angeles .. 61
Pasadena ........ 61
Richmond ...... 71
Los Angeles .. 79
Berkeley ........74
Santa Ana ......69
Monrovia ........ 76
Pacific Grove 75
Honolulu ........66
Etna ................72
Yreka ..............77
Sonora ............ 79
Nevada City ..90
San Francisco 72
Yuba City .... 75
San Jose ........71

Admitted during the year, Women, 25. Average age, 69.04
Name
Admitted
Appleton, Minnie P., Aug. 1, '36
Augustine, Jean D., Sept. 2, '35
Beall, Iola H ............. May 26, '36
Burnett, Ethlan R. .... Feb. 9, '36
Carney, Nellie ................Apr. 8, '36
Conday, Sarah B....... Aug. 26, '36
Cornell, Mabel ........ Dec. 14, '35
Foster, Elizabeth M., July 8, '36
Garnett, Katherine M. Apr. 13, '36
Gordon, Emma ............June 27, '36
Griffith, Rose L ....... Mar. 26, '36
Kelso, Katherine McD. Aug. 26,' 36
Klevesahl, Catherine, Aug. 27, '35
Knight, Frances '.H., May 21, '36
Masse, Eleanor R. ...... May 22, '36
Mayfield, Mary J ......... Sept. 22, '35
McKinney, Daisy............ May 22, '36
Parks, Rosa W ......... May 12, '36

Lodge
No.
Live Oak ............ 61
Marin .....:............ 191
King Solomon's 269
Las Palmas ...... 366
Chico .................. 111
Olivet ....................205
Charity .............. 362
Hawaiian .......... 21
Silveyville .......... 20 l
Occidental .......... 22
Enterprise .......... 70
Redwood City .. 168
Hermann ........ _127
California :......... 1
Yount ................. 12
Alpha ................. .431
Redwood City ..168
Yount .................. 12

Town
Age
Oakland .......... 59
San Rafael .... 79
San Francisco 61
Fresno .•..........61
Chico ..............84
Corning .......... 77
Campbell ........ 53
Honolulu ........ 67
Dixon .............. 72
San Francisco 57
Yuba City .... 70
Redwood City 71
San Francisco 80
San Francisco 83
Napa ..............63
Richmond ...... 64
Redwood City61.
Napa ................ 84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

90

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Rownan, Matilda ________ Aug. 11, '36
Seymour, Laura____________ Feb. 6, '36
Smay, Madge M. ____ June 11, '36
Vale, Olive B. __________June 18, '36
Wetzel, Laura C. ______ Dec. 18, '35
Wilcox, Edith ______________ May 3, '36
Wilson, Maryan ........ May 31, '36

Lodge
No.
Sunnyside __________577
Honolulu ___________ .409
Alcatraz ___________.244
Bethlehem ______--453

Presidio ---------·····354
Durant ------------···-268
Fraternity __________ 399

Town
Age
Los Angeles __71
Honolulu ________ 5g
Oakland ---··-··--69
San Francisco 79
San Francisco 74
Berkeley ·-------69
San Jose ________ 70

Died during the year, Men 33. Average age, 79.01
Name
Age
Allison, Thomas S .....62
Anderson, Julius ________92

Archer, Edward H .....84
Beck, Herman H . ____ 81
Bell, John H. ----··--·---76
Bernstein Jacob A .......82
DeWolfe, John W. ____ g3
Dillon, Robert ···---------83
Fish, Chas. E. ____________84
Gifford, Seymour C. ..79
Grimshaw, Fred'k C. 66
Kesner, James p _________9Q
Lange, Ed. W. R. ____ 74
Lee, Abraham ____________S7
Lewis, Fred'k M. ______77
Lockwood, Tom ________84
Lund, Andrew ]. ________ 80
Merrill, Chas. H. ______ 75
Meuser, Alfonso ________82
Miller, George W . ____ 76
Nice, Henry W. ________ 70

Lodge
No.
Golden Gate -- 30
King
Solomon's ___ _260
Landmark ......253
Nicolaus _: ________ 129
Lomita ____________644
Berkeley __________ 363

Santa Barbara 192
Liberty -·--------·-299
Vesper ----···-·--···84
San Joaquin .... 19
Western Star.. 2
Nicolaus __________ 129

Date
Buried
Jan. 23, '36 Decoto

Apr. 16, '36 Oakland
June 24, '36 Woodland
Sept. 12, '15 Nevada City
Apr. 19, '36 Decoto
July 27, '36 Oakland
Apr. 3, '36 Decoto
Mar. 22, '36 Decoto
May 10, '36 Red Bluff
Jan. 29, '36 Decoto
June 6, '36 Oakland
Nov. 5, '35 Wheatland

East Bay ......--489
Pacific Grove 331
Hawaiian ·------- 21
Pacific ------·-------136
San Joaquin ____ 19
East Gate ________ 290
Palo Alto ________ 346
Oriental __________ 144

Apr. 9, '36 Oakland
July 12, '36 Pacific Grove
Sept. 2, '35 Decoto
July 29, '36 San Mateo Co.
Aug. 10, '36 Stockton

Alhambra ________ 322

July 4, '36 Decoto
June 23, '36 Decoto
Apr. 14, '36 Lawrence,
Mass.

Peairs, Joseph E. ________ 73
Peters, Charles R. ________9Q

Normal Hts.....632
Naval ·------···--·- 87

Roscoe, Thomas H. __ 73
Smith, Herbert W . ..82
Starkweather, R. E. ..72
Stewart, Wesley G...61
Swaffield, T hos. W. __87
Swain, George ____________ 90

Oroville ·-·-------103
McKinley ________ 347
Corinthian --··-- 9
Concord __________ 117
Apollo -----···------396
Durant ___________ _2(j8

Walbridge, Otis C. ..69
Walker, Charles C. ..84
.wetzel, Theodore ______ 79
Young, Lars G. ________86

East Gate _______.290
Palo Alto ________ 346
Presidio ····------354
Oak Grove _____ .215

Nov. 30, '35 Decoto
Mar. 30, '36 Decoto
Jan. 23, '36 Decoto

Sept. 2, '35 Healdsburg
Sept. 12, '35
Mar. 18, '36
Sept. 7, '35
Mar. 11, '36
Apr. 28, '36

San Mateo Co.
Decoto
Decoto
Decoto
Decoto

Oct. 28, '35 Decoto
Dec. 26, '36 Palo Alto
Apr. 1, '36 Decoto
Oct. 24, '36 Decoto

91

Died during the year, W omen 35. Average Age 78.06
Name
Age
Alden, Lena ·-----------·· 72
Ayers, Sarah A. ...... 77
Beebe, Annie L. ----···- 85
Billings, Martha ---·-- 72
Brassfield, Maggie E. 81
Buzzo, Octavia ·----··· 74
Cash, Anna ···-··--·--·---· 76
Clyma, Laura A. ·-·--· 76
Coyne, Helen M. -----· 81
Edgar, Ida T. ··-·----·- 75
Everett, Charlotte .. 74
Fanshawe, Mary E . 95
Garland, Susan C. .... 86
Gifford, Kathryn ...... 73
Grant, Hattie H ......... 63
Heith, Catherine ·---·· 89
Hodgson, Mary A..... 86
Hooper, Susan ----···-·· 86
Humaston, I saphene 82
Johnson, Julia H . .... 65
Knapp, Lizzie T ..... 76
MacCleverty, E. R. .. 66
Maddrill, Mary L. .... 70
Martin, Arethusa G. 74
Parker, Calista A..... 81
Proctor, Caroline A. 100
Rassette, Sarah B..... 78
Richardson, Julia A. 86
Sawyer, Ella B......... Rli
Smith, Catherine...... 76
Waterhouse, Flora E . 74
Wegnori, Addie ........ 90
White, Martha J . ......83
W ilson, Emeline K. ..83
Wyllie, Lillie E . .....60

Lodge
No.
Liberty ·-----------299
Hanford ..........279
Porterville ......303
Drytown ··------174
Santa Barbara 192
Natoma ·····---····-·64
South Gate ....320
Enterprise ·----· 70
Union ·-----··-·---· 58
Durant ----~---··-.268
Mt. Moriah ·--· 44
Los Angeles .. 42
Consuelo ........325
San Joaquin .... 19
San Jose ··------·· 10
Fresno ............247
Santa Rosa---·-- 57
Sequoia ···-----··--349
Mt. View ........ 194
Patterson ........488
Sequoia ............349
Jewell ..............374
Madison .......... 23
Eden ................ 113
Pasadena ........272
Pajaro ..............110
San Francisco 360
Live Oak ..........61
Natoma ..............64
Hill's Ferry ....236
Oroville ..........103
Phoenix .......... 178
Natoma ............ 64
Colusa ............240
Alcatraz ..........244

Date
Buried
Dec. 15, '35 Santa Clara Co.
Apr. 2, '36 Deco to
Aug. 22, '36 Decoto
Apr. 7, '36 ·Santa Rosa
Sept. 1, '35 Decoto
Oct. 14, '35 Hanford
Mar. 7, '36 Deco to
Sept. 7, '35 Gridley
Dec. 7, '35 Redding
May 13, '36 Oakland
July 25, '36 Hayward
Dec. 22, '35 Decoto
Apr. 4, '36 Decoto
Apr. 13, '36 Deco to
Apr. 23, '36 San Jose
Apr. 4, '36 Decoto
Sept. 14, '36 Oakland
Mar. 31, '.36 Decoto
Mar. 30, '36 San Jose
Apr. 9, '36 Oakland
Oct. 9, '35 Deco to
July 18, '36 Seattle
Apr. 5, '.36 Grass Valley
Dec. 5, '35 Oakland
Nov. 10, '35 Carmel
Jan. 16, '36 Oakland
Apr. 12, '36
SanMateoCo.
Feb. 14, '36 Deco to
July 21, '36 Folsom City
Mar. 31, '36 Newman
Aug. 15, '36 Decoto
Dec. 30, '35 S. Bernardino
May 24, '36 Oakland
Apr. 8, '36 Colusa
Oct. 30, '35 Oakland.

Report of the Superintendent-CQvina
To the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California :
Herewith I present my tenth annual report as superintendent of the
Covina Home. During these ten years 275 children have entered the Home
and 277 have departed. Of those who have been discharged, 97 were graduated from the Covina Union High School. Most of the others were returned to parents or relatives whose improved domestic or fi nancial condition enabled them to resume care. A few were removed from the Home
by reason of conduct which was judged to be detrimental to the interests
of the other children in the Home. Of those who have been removed for
the benefit of the general group, a considerable proportion have received

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

subsequent outside care at our hands. In many instances they have profited
by the opportunities thus placed before them and have turned out successfully.
Providing for Graduates-What becomes of boys and girls upon their
discharge from the Home must be a matter of vital concern especially in
these times, when the economic world seems to have so little place for
young people offering themselves for work. The Lodge which places a
chil<l in the Home is primarily responsible to receive him and help get
him started in life when he is discharged. In practice it has been found that
efforts of Lodges toward this end are oftentimes not effective; hence widespread appeal has been made for help from other Masonic sources. The
Southern California Past Masters' Association has an active committee
for this purpose. The Employment Services of the Los Angeles, San Francisco and Oakland Boards of Relief have cooperated most heartily. Appeals made by members of the Board of Trustees of the Home have been
productive. One boy of the present year's class, a full orphan, has been
received into the home of a Mason, who proposes to give him a college
education and to legally adopt him.
A fine piece of practical service for our graduates has been rendered by
the Masonic Digest of Los Angeles, which has made available to Masonic
Home graduates each year for the past three years ten free scholarships
in a leading business college in Los Angeles.

ant supply of good milk, from our own dairy is the basis of our feeding
program. A study which we recently made of other comparable institutions
in Los Angeles county showed that we were spending 30 per cent more
for food, and 27 per cent less on salaries, per child per day, than the average of these other institutions. Our expense for food during the past year
has constituted 30 per cent of our total expense.
Aims and Objects--During the past y ear there has been little change
in our methods of operation. The chief aim continues to be to give to the
children a h.o me approximating in its effect a good natural family home. We
try to get along with the minimum amount of organization and rules which
are compatible with the welfare of the children. The atmosphere is more
relaxe<l and informal than in most children's institutions. W hile we require
and generally secure obedience, we are more concerned with the development of human personality than with discipline. "Discipline in the military
sense has no more place in a children's institution than in a private family.
Authority ~hould not be maintained on a fear basis." We conceive it to
be our duty to send our boys and girls into the world with the largest
possible resources of good health, enthusiasm and self-confidence.
The continuing practice by which each boy or girl after the age of
fifteen must seek and obtain annual reappointment to continued membership
in the Home has abundantly justified itself. The same is true of the practice of requiring older children to buy their clothes and luxuries with
money earned in the Home. Both of these methods have the same end in
view: to develop responsibility in the youngster who is crossing the bridge
from childhood to adulthood.
The Home as Seen by a Child-A fifteen-year-old girl who has grown
up in the Home since she was seven was asked to write her ideas of what
membership in the Home means to a boy or girl. In response to this request she has wirtten the following.

92

The sixteen .g raduates of our class of 1936 have chosen vocations as
follows:
1 musician attending Junior College
6 secretarial work, attending business college
2 nursing, attending Junior Colleges, pre-nursing courses
1 cosmetology, attending beauty school
1 business, employed by bond brokerage firm
1 at home keeping house for father
1 law, attending college
1 teaching, attending university
2 undecided
Health-The health program in a children's institution must include not
only caring for the sick, but much preventive work. During the past year
our Knights Templar Hospital has had a daily average of 11 patients. This
comparatively large amount of hospitalization was occasioned primarily
by epidemic conditions prevalent in the community, influenza and mumps
being the chief ailments. While there were a few cases of severe illness, all
made a good recovery, and at present, health conditions in the Home are
extremely good. We employ a full time resident trained nurse, and supplementary nursing help as needed. Medical and surgical work is done, as it
has been for many years past, by the staff of Dr. W. P. Magan of Covina.
In the public schools attended by our children, periodical tests are made
for defects in vision, hearing, and for tuberculosis. Dental work is done
regularly for all children. We regret that on ac<:ount of the expense, it has
been impossible to provide orthodontia for certain children who are in sore
need of it.
There is an important relationship between health and food. An abund-

93

HOW THE HOME SEEMS TO ME

" In coming to the Home at an early age and remaining for over eight
years, one finds that his life is very definitely shaped and influenced by the
circumstances and people around him. At least that has been my experience. Of course I cannot know how different my life would have been
had I not come to the Home but I am sure that it could not have been any
~lli~

.

"Our houseparents are the persons who have the most influence on us,
except for the superintendent, who is responsible for the many influences
that shape our lives in the Home. Having as many houseparents as one
is sure to have when he is here for l:Juite a while is a great help in learning to adjust oneself. Each time a child advances to a new department he
finds new circumstances. Therefore in order to get along well, he must
learn to adjust himself to new rules and new companions. In the outside
world it is of unlimit ed importance to be agreeable and easily adjusted to
things. Thus from the time we first enter ·the Home, 'we are learning
lessons for the game of life. Rooming with each other and engaging in
.work and play with all the others enables us to understand people and to
deal better with them. Everything possible is done at the Masonic Home

94

95

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to _promote friendliness among all the children. Not only are these friendsl11ps ~etwee~ _those of the same sex but also between boys and girls.
There is a spmt of freeness which permits the boys and girls· to become
close friends with each other. One can realize how this makes it easier to
get along later on.

worth while. There is an intimate personal relationship bet'ween the children and houseparents. All the houseparents are willing to spend time to
show a child his shortcomings and advise him how to improve himself. We
have all the trouble and happiness that one large family has. We solve our
problems and share our happiness in the same way.
"Because it is a small world in itself. the Home fits its members to live
successfully in the outside world. Any boy or girl who wants to amount to
something can certainly get a good start in the Masonic Home."
An Authority Views Us-Seeking to check some phases of our mo<le of
operation, we recently asked Mrs. Jessie C. Fenton, of the California Bureau of Juvenile Research, to make a special study of our practices in
training children in the use of money and also in the matter of relationships of boys and girls in the Home. Mrs. Fenton spent time enough in
observation t'o enable her to form well considered conclusions, after which
she submitted a report from which the following is quoted:
"I have very few suggestions to offer, and these only with great diffidence. The plan under which you are handling the problems of money and
of social relationships seems to be operating smoothly and effectively, and
to be fully accepted by the children. And these points, of course, are the
real criteria of the value of any program.
"I was delighted to notice the very obvious happiness of the children
at the Home, and their frank affection for their supervisors. The wholesomeness and freedom from any hint of repression in the atmosphere at
the Masonic Home were clearly apparent and gave me very great pleasure.
The morale of your institution seems to be exceptionally fine, and I congratulate you on it most warmly.
"In general I feel that the plan in use at the Covina Masonic Home
for training the children in the handling of money, is an exceptionally
valuable one. It is open to certain theoretical objections, to be sure, but
it would be impossible to evolve a system which would be beyond criticism. On the whole, I am heartily in sympathy with your money arrangements for the children and the p·hilosophy which underlies them.
"As to the relations of boys and girls, the policy of the Home in this
matter seems to be entirely admirable, and quite in accord with generally
accepted psychological principles. There is ample opportunity for wholesome friendly association between boys and girls, with enough supervision
to insure their protection, but not so much that they need feel repressed,
embarrassed, or insulted by any suggestion of adult suspicion or disapproval
of their friendships. Apparently the young people feel secure in the knowledge of a sympathetic, friendly attitude from the adults in the institution,
and this makes it easy for them to seek and accept advice about such personal problems as their relationship with friends of the opposit'e sex. The
incidents which were described to me of youngsters who needed such
advice were admirably handled. I could offer no criticism of your attitude
towards their problems. The ideal relationship between boys and girls in
an institution is one of free association under kindly and sympathetic
supervision, but with no suggestion of repression or suspicion. This sort
of relationship is obviously the one existing at the Covina Home. The
mingling of the sexes at meals is an excellent plan, as is also the sharing
of social events, such as the dance in progress during my visit. I was

"I do not mean to say that all the children go through their years in
the Home peacefully and without trouble. Each child has his own problems
and trou_bles, ~ut having these problems helps g·r eatly in preparing one for
future d1~culttes. In my own experience it has been so. My houseparents
a,nd superintendent spent much time helping me to learn to control my
temper. As a result I have improved in that' quite a bit.
"T}-ie Home ~ffords plenty of chance for recreation. Developing the
bo~y 1s. an easy job mixed with fun if one makes use of our tennis court,
swimming pool, and ball field. During the hot months the pool is always
crowded, and every month the tennis court is filled with those playing
~nd othe~s wa~ting to play. On the ball field the boys have a chance to
improve m their school sports. Building a strong body in this way equips
us t~. sudy better'. work harder, and derive pleasure from everything we do.
. The Masonic !fome do.es not have a school of its own; we go to the
public schools. I thmk that 1s the way it shoul<l be, because it gives us a
~hance to get' acquainted with many other people and to have a real place
m the com~unity we live in. At school we are accepted on an equal
st~ndard with the rest. Since we are encouraged to invite our Covina
friends to be _our guests at the Home, they have a chance to know that we
are not deprive? of those things that other chidlren need and get. Many
v~luable and enjoyable friendships are formed between the Covina children
and ours, as we go to sho:vs, dances, and school events fogether. Our boys
play on the school athletic teams and the girls also participate in school
sports. Many play casts contain the names of our children and some of
them be.l ong to the ·?ebating and other organizations. That is why I think
that gomg to public schools is very advantageous to Masonic Home
members.
"Many Lodges take a strong personal interest in our activities and help
us so ~uch that we are made to feel that we are part of this large unit of
M~son1c men an~ women. Many of the nearby Lodges visit the Home and
brmg _us entertainments and thus indicate their personal interest in all
the. children. There i~ a special interest shown by many of the Lodges to
their own wards. This makes all of us appreciate and feel the importance
of the Lodges in our lives.
·
"A very efficient ~ystem that we have in the Home is the monetary
system. We go ?n th1~ system when we are about thirteen. Learning the
value of money 1s an important factor in the lives of everyone. We work,
for so many cents an hour and buy everything we ne·e d and want-if we
have earned the money. It is easy to get work here if one really wants it
and is willing to work hard. Of course we have to make good in our jobs if
we want to hold them. When we are earning our own money we realize the relation between the amount of money one earns and the amount of
clothes and other things one may buy, and also' that a dollar is only a hundred cents and will buy only a dollar's worth of goods.
"All these arguments and many more I or any of the others who have
been here for quite a while could use to show that the Home is really

PROC.EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

especially pleased by your attempt to provide a background for the social
life of these young people as nearly as possible like that of normal home
life. I like the fact that boys from outside· who wlsh to visit girls of the
Home are made welcome, and that your young people are allowed the
same privileges of visiting in the home of their Covina friends which any
wholesome par.ents desire for their children. I was especially pleased to
hear that housemothers establish contact with parents of the friends of the
children in their charge, just as a careful parent would do. In short,
your policy in regard to the relationship between your boys and girls has
my sincere and unqualified commendation."

able institution under whose protection he has been brought up. This realization builds up his self-respect, and at the same time makes him sensible
of his obligation to shape his own conduct in harmony with the ideals of
the institution which has nurtured him.
JOHN M. DowNEN, Superintendent.

96

Field Worker-Miss Catharine Noel has continued to render invaluable
service as a field worker during the past year. Her duties have included:
investi~~tion of applications for admission (aged people and children),
superv1s1on of those on outside relief, keeping in touch with families of
children in the Home, supervision of problem children placed in foster
homes, aiding in after care of children after discharge. We have at the
present time under her supervision 38 children who are being financially assisted in their mother's own homes, and seven children who are being
cared for in foster homes. This extension of our work, developed during
the past ten years, has made it possible to take care of increasing demands
upon the service of the Home without building new buildings or adding to
the size of our Covina plant.
Alumni-The past year has marked an increase in the interest shown
by alumni in the Home. Records of alumni in the Home office have been
made more complete. An alumni newsletter has been issued at semi-annual
intervals, containing news regarding the present' whereabouts and activities of many of the former boys and .girls of the Home. This has enabled
them to get in touch with each other and. to renew old friendships. Alumni
living in and around San Francisco, and those in and around Los Angeles,
have each been brought' together on two occasions in reunion meetings.
We believe that the furtherance of alumni organization has been well
worth the effort.
Visitations-Visiting at the Home by Lodges, and other Masonic
bodies, and by individual Masons, is most desirable when done under
proper conditions. Visitors generally have shown a fine appreciation of
their relationship to the Home and its members, and have deported themselves in such a way as to bring help and inspiration to the chlidren. The
attitude of pity and condescending benevolence is detrimental to the
child's self-respect. He is sensitive about being called an "orphan" or an
"inmate" of an orphanage. He needs rather to be made to feel that he is
the adoptive child of the Masonic fraternity. His developing character is
influenced in an important degree by the ideals of the Masonic institution.
As he grows up in the Home he assimilates a conception of what' Masonry
stands for. This comes to him through his contact with visiting Masons
and through things which he ·hears said about Masonry. He comes to
know himself as a ward and child of the Craft; and to feel that he stands
on a firm and solid foundation, that he possesses a worthy moral heritage.
Akin to the pride of the privately reared child in the honor and good name
of his family, is that of the Masonic Home child in the ancient and honor-

97

Visitations To Covina Home
September, 1935:
15-Sunset Lodge No. 363.
22-Vallee de France Lodge No. 329 . .
University Lodge No. 394.
October, 1935:
20-Southwest Masonic Officers Association.
27-Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319. Concert.
December, 1935:
8-Corona Lodge No. 324. Moving pictures.
15-Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506. Moving pictures.
March, 1936:
12-Women of Glendale, 0. E. S., Auxiliary, to sew.
April, 1936:
3-Lyra Chapter, 0. E. S., Whittier, to sew.
5-Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0. E. S., Long Beach.
19-Moneta Lodge, L. A., No. 405. Baseball game with boys.
Angelus Mesa No. 625, Los Angeles.
26-Long Beach Pyramid No. 43, Ancient Egyptian Order of Sciots,
band concert and ball game.
May, 1936:
3-Henry Knox Lodge No. 662, Los Angeles, with entertainment.
9-Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 27, Alhambra.
IO-Composite Lodge No. 639.
Montebello Lodge No. 451.
Manchester Lodge No. 585. Ball game with boys.
Bell Lodge No. 483.
16-Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 20, Pasadena.
17-All States Lodge No. 593, Long Beach. Ball game with boys.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355.
20-Glen Eyrie Chapter, 0. E. S., No. 237, Glendale, to sew.
24-Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595, Los Angeles.
Poinsettia Lodge No. 633, Ventura.
La Puente Lodge No. 446.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 36, Los Angeles.
June, 1936:
7-Jordan Lodge No. 654, Los Angeles.
South Park Lodge No. 563, Los Angeles. Program.
21-Elysian Lodge No. 418. Ball game.
Benevolence Lodge No. 631, Los Angeles. Mickey Mouse pictures.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272.
James Madison Lodge No. 572.
July, 1936:
26-Alumni Association, Balboa Camp.

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Entertainments and Speakers, Covina Home
October, 1935 :
20---Program by Southwest Officers' Association. Music, juggler,
magician.
27-Concert by band of Jinnistan Grotto of Los Angeles.
December, 1935;
8--Corona Lodge No. 324, Pasadena, brought to the Home several
reels of Walt Disney cartoons and a young accordion player.
· 15-Preview showing of the picture, Shirley Temple in "The Littlest
Rebel," by Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506, Los Angeles.
20-Monrovia Lodge No. 308 and Sojourner Lodge No. 607, Monrovia.
Christmas Party at the Masonic Temple in Monrovia. Program
of musical numbers, animal tricks, and magic; refreshments.
Christmas tree with gifts for each child.
22--Gordon Whipple, San Dimas, speaker at Christmas services.
January, 1936:
26-Leon O. Whitsell, member of Board of Trustees, spoke at the
Sunday school.
February, 1936:
14---Six-piece orchestra for Valentine Dance Party at Masonic Home
furnished by Santa Ana Lodge No. 241, Sidney J. Babcock.
March, 1936:
18--Mr. Torrance C. Welch, P. M., Pasadena Lodge No. 272, F. &
A M., slides and lecture on Japan. ·
April, 1936:
1-Mr. Torrance C. Welch, P . M., Pasadena Lodge No. 272, F. &
A. M., illustrated lecture on "China."
8--Mr. C. E . Finkenbinder, 5236 Baltimore street, L os Angeles, gave
illustrated lecture on TV A, the Columbia River Dams, and the
Boulder Dam and Ti:ansmission Line.
15-Mr. Torrance Welch lectured on Southern Asia.
26-Long Beach Pyramid No. 43, Ancient Order of Sciots. Band
concert.
May, 1936 :
3-Henry Knox Lodge No. 662, Los Angeles, presented entertainment, featuring William Borsage, accordion ; Bert Roverie, singing, 50 Meglin kiddies, and others.
8--Mrs. Jean Gould (kindness of Fred A. Kelsey) entertained with
fairy stories.
21-Mrs. Welch-travel pictures and lecture.
27- Program of children's songs in costume by Mrs. Hazel Anderson,
arranged through courtesy of Mr. J. H. Elgin.
June, 1936:
7-Entertainment brought by South Park Lodge No. 563, Los Angeles, consisting of orchestra, vocalist, and magician.
21- Picture show brought by Benevolence Lodge No. 631 of Los
Angeles.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

Donations to Masonic Home at Covina
William Abrams-1 gross elastic, 1 package merchandise.
Alhambra Commandery-2 rugs.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322-$25.00 for Scholarship Fund.
Alt States Lodge No. 593-50 jars jams and jetli~s, $2.00---Treat Fund,
3 rugs.
At Malaikah Temple Shriners-13 sacks potatoes, 1 lot playground
apparatus.
Anderson, 0. C.-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Associate Patrons Association of Southern California-1 lot of foreign
stamps, 5 flags.
Baker, H. L.- 13 cases cereal.
Baker, Isaac-50 toothbrushes, 10 boxes toilet soap.
B ~kersfield Past Matrons' Association-$5.00 for Treat F und.
Bean, R. C.-16-pound jar candy.
Beek, J. A.-125 popcorn balls.
Belcher, Mrs.. Frank-1 lot magazines.
Bettina Chapter 0. E. S.-95 jars jams, jellies and pickles.
Beutley, G. J.-40 pounds almond meats.
Boggs, Mollie-11 scrapbooks, 6 jig-saw puzzles.
Borsage, Wm.-$2.00 for Treat Fund.
Broadway Department Store-1 lot toys.
Brea Chapter No. 506, 0. E. S.-1 lot jams .and jellies, $35.00 for resurfacing tennis court.
City Employees' Masonic Club-Collection of stamps.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-2 boxes dates.
Composite Lodge No. 639-15 dozen quarts jams and jellies.
Corona Lodge No. 324---21 boxes jams, jellies and foods tuffs, 2 sacks
walnuts, 2 sacks peanuts, 2 gallons honey, 1 box apples.
Falkenrath, Mrs.-1 dozen cans fruit juice.
Finerty, James J .-1 lot candy.
Floral Art Shop--1 5-year subscription Country Gentleman, 1 3-year
subscription Ladies' Home Journal.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R. A. M.-1 kit olives.
Fraser, J . T .-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Gallagher, Mr. J. A.-200 pounds candy.
Glover, Dr. G. S.-$7.00 for Treat Fund.
Green, Mr., and Mrs. Hackers-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
Hampton, C. B.-25 pounds popcorn.
Haney, E . A. and John H. Trickey-Assortment of stamps and postmarks.
·
Hauson, C. L.-1 lot clothing.
Hawaiian Pineapple Co.-2 cases fancy sliced pineapple.
Hayes; Frank-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662-65 jars jams and jellies.
Hesperian L odge No. 264-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Hinkleman, L.-1~ dozen bottles perfume.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-1 truck load jams and jellies, 1 lot
magazines.
Jasmine Chapter 0. E. S.-170 boxes Christmas candy.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

100

Jinnistan Grotto Band-I lot Geographic and Popular Mechanics
magazines.
Job's Daughters Bethel No. 20-33 jars jams and jellies.
Job's Daughters Bethel No. 27-45 books and I bundle magazines.
Job's Daughters Bethel No. 77-75 toys.
Job's Daughters Bethel No. 95-4 cases jams and jellies.
Kelsey, Fred A.-I bag remnants and samples.
Los Angeles City Employees' Masonic Club-$100 for Tennis Court
Fund.
Los Angeles County Forestry Department-5 deer carcasses.
Los Angeles Soap Co.-40 cases toilet soap.
Lafferty, Mrs. Mac-Weekly bundles of Sunday school papers.
Larrabee, Mrs. Lura Pearl-I barber chair.
Levazzi, Charles-I lot toys, $5.00 for Treat Fund.
Long Beach Pyramid No. 43, Sciots-Ice cream for all the children.
Lucca Restaurant-I7 pounds fancy cookies.
Lucerne Chapter 0. E. S.-3 boxes apples.
Lyra Chapter 0. E. S., Social Club-I buttonhole maker.
Manchester Lodge No. 585-I4 jars jams and jellies.
Manteca Rainbow Girls-2 boxes homemade candy.
Marshall, Lee-$2.00 for Treat Fund.
Martinez Lodge No. 4I-I lot toys.
Masonic District, 81st-$78.00 for resurfacing tennis court.
Masonic District Officers' Association, lOist-I radio.
Masonic Employees, Twentieth Century-Fox Films Co.-A Christmas
gift for every child in the Home.
Masters' and Wardens' Association of Los Angeles-$30.00 for resurfacing tennis court.
Mauraa, Mr. Jean-$10.00 for tennis C<>t? rt iund.
McCann, Mr. G. A.-$30.00 to be us~<l for something ·beneficial or
useful in Senior Boys' Building.
McDonald, J ean-28 packages toys and games.
Merced Past Matrons' and Patrons' Association, 0. E. S.-3 comforters.
Mercedes Chapter 0. E. S.-1 quilted bed cover, 14 dolls.
Messiah White Shrine-Assortment of jams and jellies.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-$65.I9 for resurfacing tennis court, 3 dozen
jars jam, I Victrola and records.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308 and Sojourners' Lodge No. 607- 1 lot candy
and nuts.
Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506-1 lot cotton remnants, 1 lot silk and satin
remnants, 3 packages magazines, I lot jellies.
Napa Assembly No. 7, Order of the Rainbow Girls-25 toys and pictures, I lot scrapbooks and puzzles.
Treat Fund.
Officers' Association, 88th Masonic District-$10.25
Olivet Chapter 0. E . S.~2 boxes clothing.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293-1 lot stamps, postmarks.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-I keg olives. .
Overholser, L. W .-1 5-pound box of chocolate.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341-1 bag walnuts.
Parcelles, J. S. and L. W. and families-2 dozen jars of jams and jellies.

for

•

101

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Pasadena Community Playhouse-48 tickets to performances.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-I lot magazines.
Pederson's Bakery-25 dozen rolls.
P entalpha Chapter 0. E. S.-1 lot walnuts, dried fruit and jams.
Poinsettia Lodge No. 633-$10.00 for Treat Fund.
Pomona Chapter No. I 10 0 . E. S.-1 case jams and jellies.
Porterville Lodge No. 303-25 pounds candy, 5 pounds nuts.
Produce Exchange of Los Angeles-I case eggs.
Pyramid Lodge No. 4-1 box apples, 39 bags candy, 43 gliders.
Ramona Lodge No. 457-225 candy canes.
Rising Light Auxiliary No. 286-1 box apples.
Rodegerdts, A. H.-$I2.50 for Treat Fund.
Rouch, Alvin-200 pounds dried fruit.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452-106 cans canned goods, 2 sacks potatoes,
2 sacks apples, 103 quarts, 24I pints, 167 small jars, 1 gallon fruit jar, 2
2-quart fruit jars, 3 I-quart fruit jars, assortment of jams and jellies, $62.80
for Senior Class rings.
Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers' Association-$35.00 for renewal
of furnishings in "Santa· .C lara" room.
Santa Monica Chapter No. I I3 0. E. S.-1 lot of toys.
Schulte, Elsie-I lot Geographic magazines.
Signal Lodge No. 543-I case jams and jellies, I bag nuts, $10.00 for
redecorating room, window shades for room.
Southwest Officers Association- 1 lot jams and jellies.
Speziali, John-5 gallons honey.
Staggs, Mrs. E. R.-$6.00 for Treat Fund.
Stanford, Mrs. W. C.-1 lot of toys and gifts.
Stout, E. A.-I2 Geographic magazines.
The Sunshine Girls--'5 scrap books.
Trickey, M. N.-lot foreign stamps.
University Chapter No. 137, R. A. M.,-1 lot stamps (approximately
7,500-10,000).
University Lodge No. 394-I lot jams and jellies.
Uttrick, Mrs. Carl-2 pints jam.
Vacaville Assembly, Rainbow Girls No. 29- 37 stuffed animals and
dolls.
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329- 175 F rench pastries.
Vallejo Assembly No. 3-32 dolls and toy animals.
Virgil and Central Jr. High Schools-3 boxes food stuffs and fruits.
Watsonville Assembly, Rainbow Girls-$3.30 Treat Fund.
Weber Baking Co.-2 fruit cakes, 2 ornamental boxes.
Welch, Torrance-2 lots of magazines.
Wilkins, Dr. D. H.-15 watermelons.
Wilson Western Sporting Goods Co.- 1 lot hand balls and baseballs,
f used tennis rackets, 3 footballs, 2 basket balls.
Women's Circle of the Christ Church by the Sea-89 popcorn balls.
Woolworth's, Los Angeles-4 large boxes Easter candy.

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations-Covina Home
August 1, 1935, to July 31, 1936
Lodges
Lodge
Amt.
No.
Acorn ........................494 $ 10.00
A. F. E. Irwin........645
5.00
Alamo ......................122
5.00
Albert Pike ............484
5.00
Alisa! ........................321
5.00
Alpha Lodge ..........431
5.00
Alta Loma ..............643
10.00
Alturas ....................248
5.00
Amador .................... 65
5.00
5.00
Amity -······················370
5.00
Antioch ....................175
5.00
Arcata ......................106
Argonaut ..................461
10.00
Argonne .................... 514
10.00
5.00
Artesia ......................377
5.00
Ashlar •.....................306
Atascadero ..............493
5.00
5.00
Athens· ·-···················228
Bakersfield ..............224
5.00
12.50
Balder ···········-···········393
Bay City ..................526
10.00
5.00
Bear Mountain ........ 76
Bell ~...........................483
2.50
Bellflower ................442
10.00
10.00
Blackmer ..................442
Buckeye .................... 195
5.00
Burlingame ..............400
10.00
Cahuenga ................513
7.50
5.01)
Caledonia ................486
Callayomi ................282
5.00
25.00
California ................ 1
Canoga ......................611
13.80
Capital City ............499
10.00
Carquinez ................337
10.00
5.00
Center ......................465
Charity ......................362
5.35
Chowchilla ..............485
10.00
Chico ........................111
10.00
Citro! ........................656
5.uo
Claremont ................436
5.00
10.00
Clay ····-················-··101
10.P.O
Clinton ·····-···············119
10.00
Coalinga : .................387
5.00
Confidence ..............203
10.00
Corcoran ~.................490

Lodge
No.
Corinthian ................ 9
Corona ..............-......324
Coronado ................441
Covenant ..................527
Crescent .................... 45
Crockett .................. 139
Culver City ............467
Cupertino ................510
Curtis ........................140
Delano ......................309
Delta ........................471
Dinuba ......................385
Downey ....................220
Dunsmuir • ................297
East Bay ................489
East Gate ................290
East San Diego ....561
El Centro ................384
El Cajon ..................576
El Dorado ............ 26
Elmhurst ············-····610
El Segundo.............. 507
Enterprise .............. 70
Eureka .................... 16
Evergreen ................259
Excelsior ................166
Fairmount ................435
Fallbrook ................317
Ferndale ··-··············193
Fillmore ....................379
Fort Crook ..............575
Francis Drake ........376
Franklin ..................143
Fremont ..................497
Friendship ................210
Fruitvale ..................336
Galt ............................267
Geo. Washington .. 525
Golden Gate .......... 30
Golden Rule ............479
Gold Hill ................ 32
Guardian -················596
Hammonton ............433
Hanford ....................279
Hartley ····-··············199

Amt.
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
2.:iO
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
28.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.')0
2.50
12.50
12.50
lOJ10
5.01)
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00 .
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
25.00
5.00
20.00

Lodge
No.
Hawaiian ................ 21
Henry Clay ............ 95
Henry Knox ............662
H . M. Stephens ......541
Henry S. Orme ......326
Hermann ········-········127
Hesperian ................264
Highland Park ........382
Hills Ferry .............236
Hollenbeck ..............319
Hollywood ..............355
Holtville ..................425
Honolulu ..................409
Howard .................... 37
Humboldt ................ 79
Illinoistown ............ 51
Inglewood ................421
lone .......................... 80
John P. Jarman ....669
Kauai ........................589
Kaweah ....................665
King David's ..........209
La Brea ..................650
La Fayette ..............126
Lakeshore ................ 551
La Mesa ..................407
Landmark ................253
Las Palmas ............366
La Parfaite Union 17
Laurel ......................245
Lexington ..............104
Libertas ..................466
Liberty ....................299
Lindsay ....................416
Live Oak ................ 61
le Progres
de l'Oceanie ........371
Lodi ..........................256
Lomita ....................644
Long Beach ............327
Los Angeles ............ 42
Los Gatos ................292
Madera ....................280
Madison .................... 23
Malta ........................661
Maricopa ..................434
Marin ........................191
Mariposa .................. 24
Martinez .................. 41

Amt.
25.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.30
5.00
15.00
5.00
2.50
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
23.00
15.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
McKinley .....- .........347
Mendocino ..............179
Meridian ......:...........667
Metropolitan ..........646
Midway ....................426
Military Service ......570
Mill Valley ..............356
Mizpah ....................378
Molino ......................150
Monterey ................217
Mosaic ......................218
Mountain View ......194
Mount Moriah ........ 44
Mount Oso ..............460
Mt. Diablo ..............448
Naval ........................ 87
Needles ·····-···-········326
Neptune ..................619
Nevada .................... 13
Nicolaus ....................129
Norwalk ..........:.......315
Oak Grove ..............215
Oakland ....................188
Oasis ........................664
Ocean Park ............369
Occidental ................ 22
Oriental ············-·····.144
Orland ......................265
Oxnard ....................341
Pacific Grove ..........331
Pajaro ··········.·······-··.110
Palestine ..................351
Palisades ..................637
Palo Al to ..................346
Pasadena ..................272
Paso Robles ······-···.286
Penrhyn ....................258
Perris ........................411
Petaluma ..................180
Phoenix .........:..........178
Piedmont ................521
Pinole ........................353
Plumas .................... 60
Point Firmin ..........558
Point Loma ............620
Pomona ....................246
Presidio --················354
Provident ................609
Redondo ..................328

103
Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.0'.l
10.00
5.00
5.00
. 5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
5.:>0
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
7.50
15.0'.l
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
15.00
5.00
2.!>I)

10.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
2.50
10.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

104

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Redwood City ........ 168
Richmond ................375
Rio Vista ................208
Rising Light ............397
Riverside ..................635
Rockridge ................468
Roosevelt ................500
Roseville .................222
Russian River ........ 181
Sacramento .............. 40
San Bernardino ......348
San Diego .............. 35
San Fernando ........343
San Francisco ........360
San Gabriel ............546
San Gorgonio ........66&
San Jacinto ............338
San Pedro ................332
San Jose .................. 10
San Miguel ..............285
San Simeon ............ 196
Santa Ana ..............241
Santa Barbara ........ 192
Santa Cruz ............ 38
Santa Monica ........307
Santa Maria ............ 580
Seaport .......,............550
Seaside ......................504
Security ....................581
Selma ........................277
Semper Virens ........ 552
Sequoia ....................349
Signal ........................543
Silver Gate ..............296
Silver Trowel ........415
Sincerity .................. 132
South Gate ..............320

Amt.
10.00
12.50
10.00
10.()0
5.00
12.5()
2.50
5.00
5.(J()
10.l'O
10.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.()0
10.00
5.DO
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.llO
10.00
5.00
10.00
4.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00

Lodge
No.
South Park ............ 563
South Pasadena ......367
So. San Francisco 212
Speranza ltaliana ..219
Standard ..................440
St. Helena .............. 93
Suisun ...................... 55
Sunnyvale ................511
S. W. Hackett ........574
Taft ..........................516
Temblor ....................477
Temescal ..................314
Temple .................... 14
Texas ........................ 46
Truckee ....................200
Tujunga ....................592
Unity ........................368
Vacaville .................. 134
Vallejo ......................487
Van Nuys ................450
Veritas ......................640
Victorville ................634
Victory ....................474
Visalia ...................... 128
Yerba Buena ..........403
Yolo .......................... 81
Yosemite .................. 99
Yount ........................ 12
Washington ............ 20
West Gate ................335
White Pine ............ 555
Wilmington ............ 198
Willow Glen ............676
Woodland ................156 ·
Woodstock ..............491

Amt.
15.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.0IJ
10.llO
5.00
5.0Q
2.50
5.00
3~83

10.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
10.GO
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
California ................ 5 $ 10.00
Red Bluff .................. 40
Coalinga ..................114
5.00
Redondo ..................101
Dixon ........................ 48
10.00
San Francisco ........ 1
El Centro ................109
5.00
San Luis .................. 62
Ferndale .................. 78
5.00
Santa Cruz .............. 38
Fidelity .................... 96
5.00
Siloam ...................... 37
South Pasadena ......112
Hanford .................... 74
12.50
Hollywood ..............120
St. Helena ................ 63
5.00
Humboldt ................ 52
Washington ............ 13
5.00
Keystone .................. 56
Wilmington ............141
5.00
La Purissima ..........104
Woodland ................ 46
10.00
Los Angeles ............ 33
5.1)0
Visalia ...................... 44
Marin Chapter ........102
7.50
Nevada ...................... 6
2.50

105

Amt.
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10/)0
$155.00

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery
No.
Amt.
Calvary .................... 62 $ 5.00
Eureka ...................... 35
5.00
Golden Gate ............ 16
6.25
Golden West .......... 43
5.00
Los Angeles ............ 9
25.00
Marysville ................ 7
5.IJO
Mt. Shasta .............. 32
5.00
Naval ........................ 19
5.00
Nevada .................... 6
2.50
Oroville .................... 5
10.00
Palo Alto .................. 47
2.50
Sacramento .............. 2
5.00

Commandery
No.
San Luis Obispo...... 27
San Pedro ................ 60
Santa Cruz .............. 44
St. Bernard .............. 23
Vacaville .................. 38
Visalia ...................... 26
Ukiah ........................ 33
Watsonville ............ 22
Woodland ................ 21

A mi.
2.50
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.1)0
5.00
5.00
$123.75

$2055.48

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations-Covina Home
August 1, 1935, to July 31, 1936

Chapters, 0. E. S.

Councils, R. & S. M.
Amt.
Council
No.
California ................ 2 $ 2.50
1.25
Gateway .................. 13
4.00
Hollywood .............. 33
5.00
Pomona .................... 21
5.00
Siskiyou .................... 24

Council
No.
Southern California 35
Valley ........................ 27

Amt.
26.60
5.00

$ 49.35

Chapter
No.
Bethlehem .............. 95 $
Brea .......................... 506
Ione. ..........................283
Jewel ........................238
Mercedes .................. 126
Mill Valley ..............219

Amt.
5.00
35.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

Chapter
No.
Mizpah ......................100
San Rafael ................215
Santa Clara ............195
Signal ........................276

Amt.
lQ.1)0
10.00
15.00
5.00
$115.00

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Miscellaneous

0. C. M. Anderson --·····--········-·······-···-·--········-··················-······-$ 1.00
\V m. C. Bartlett·--······························--------··---····-·········--·----····--·..····-····· 5.00
Berkeley High Twelve Club............................................................-..........
5.00
F. J. Breckenridge.............................................................................................
1.00
Fred B. Co.mfort.............'......•.....••.•_.............................................................. 2.50
Louis Conrady ................................................................................................ 3.00
Albert Denser .............................-...................................................................
1.00
5.00
!-!rs. Elby Grameny .............................................................,..........................
S. M. Hayward ................................................................................................
5.00
J. A. Johnson.........................~-····--·--------------------------··..................................... 5.00
.M:asters and Wardens Assn. of Los Angeles ............................................ 30.00
Masters, Wardens and Senior Deacons Club, 39th District................
5.00
Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2.........................- .............~..................
5.00
Peninsula Lodge of Perfection No. 14...............~ ............-........................ 10.00
!1ilton E. Robertson .... :............................................................................... 4.00
Sacramento Bodies A. & A. S. R. ............................................................ 12.50
San Diego Lodge of Perfection Scottish Rite Bodies ........................ 25.00
F. G. Watson .................................................................................................. 15.00
Clifford ................................................................................................................ 10.00
$140.00

Children at the Covina Home, July 31, 1936
BOYS-87

Name
Admitted
Baker, Kenneth .............. Aug. 3, '28
Baker, Philip.................. Aug. 3, '28
Bayer, Oscar.............. Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Roy Charles .... Aug. 27, '33
Bounds, Edward ........ Sept. 14, '31
Bounds, Wallace........ Sept. 14, '31
Boyer, Clarence ............ Oct. 15, '30
Breinin, Lawrence.... Aug. 11, '29
Brown, Robert.. ............ Dec. 8, '29
Brown, William ........ Dec. 8, '29
Burns, Roland ............ Dec. 24, '35
Carroll, Charles .......... Mar. 17, '28
Challacombe, Wm ...June 22, '35
Clark, Harry S ............. May 28, '32
Colvin, J ames ................ Dec. 8, '34
Cooksey, Jack E ......... Aug. 27, '32
Countryman, Robert..N ov. 20, '30
Crawford, Robert H., Nov. 1, '32
Cuniberti, Remo ...... Nov. 18, '28
Elliott, Willard .......... Sept. 18, '34
Ellis, Robert.. ............ Sept. 27, '34

Lodge
No.
Westlake ............ 392
Westlake ............ 392
Palestine ............351
Palestine ............ 351
Fullerton ............ 339
Fullerton ............339
Alhambra .......... 322
San Bernardino 348
Los Angeles ...... 42
Los Angeles ...... 42
Hollenbeck ........319
Pentalpha ..........202
Jordan ................654
So. Calif. ..........278
Bell ......................483
North Star ........ 91
Occidental .......... 22
Pentalpha ..........202
Speranza
I taliana ..........219
Euclid ................ 519
Downey ..............220

Location
Age
Los Angeles .. 11
Los Angeles .. 14
Los Angeles .. 10
Los Angeles .. 8
Fullerton ........ 14
Fullerton ........ 16
Alhambra ...... 16
S. Bernardino 11
Los Angeles .. 10
Los Angeles .. 12
Los Angeles .. 10
Los Angeles ..17
Los Angeles .. 10
Los Angeles .. 9
Bell .................. 12
Ft. Jones ........ 15
San Francisco 17
Los Angeles .. 12
San Francisco 16
Los Angeles .. 17
Dn'!¥ney .......... 7

Name
Admitted
Falkenrath, John ............Jan. 21, '32
Firgins, HerberL..... April, 22 '32
Fuller, Harry................ Oct. 6, '35
Gorbett, William........ N ov. 4, '28
Hayes, Vaughn ..........June 16, '35
Helwig, Ben ................ Dec. 31, '34
Hocks, RusselL. .........June 23, '27
Hopkins, Hugh A. .... Aug. 31, '35
Hopkins, Paul S ....... Aug. 31, '35
Hopkins, Robert ........ Aug. 31, '35
Houtz, Lawrence .......... Feb. 9, '35
Houtz, Walter ................ Feb. 9, '35
Jones, Paul Arthur ....July 29, '34
Jones, Richard ............July 29, ·~4
Lidell, Ernest.. .......... Aug. 29, '31
Lord, Edmund ............July 27, '29
Lord, Raymond ............July 27, '2Q
Lord, Richard ............July 27, '29
Lord, Robert.. ..............July 27, '29
Lounsberry, Harold ....Jan. 8, '35
Lounsberry, William, Jan. 8, '35
Mark, John .................... Aug. 6, '29
Mau, Charles ..............June 17, '35
Maxwell, Allan ........ March 4, '32
Maxwell, Martin ........ March 4, '32
McKinnon, Jack.......... Dec. 16, '24
McLean, Norman ........ Jan. 20, '32
Miceletti, Alfred ........ Feb. 14, '32
Monroe, James ............Jan. 21, '31
Monroe, Preston ........Jan. 21, '31
Morgan, John ................ Mar. 2, '31
Morris, Thomas ............July 1, '35
Myers, Harvey............ Aug. 23, '32
Nelsen, Nels .............. Nov. 27, '27
Nelson, Calvin ............ Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Alva.................. Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Wesley ............June 8, '34
Nix, Doran .................... Oct. 8, '33
Peterson, Ralph ........ Sept. 22, '35
Peterson, Kenneth ....July 22, '36
Prewett, Norman ........... _Jan. 4, '28
Reynolds, Ivan............ May 7, '28
Richards, AlberL ..... Apr. 20, '35
Richardson, Joseph, Nov. 18, '28
Ridge, Jackson .......... Sept. 11, '35
Riddell, Edwin ............ May 29, '30
Riddell, Robert.. .......... May 29, '30
Rogers, Gordon ............July 9, '35

Lodge
No.
Larchmont ........614
Monrovia .......... 308
Mt. Olive .......... 506
Ontario .............. 301
Monrovia .......... 308
Orange Grove .. 293
Grand Lodge ......... .
Santa Paula....... .291
Santa Paula ..... .291
Santa Paula ...... 291
Alhambra .......... 322
Alhambra .......... 322
Orange Grove ..293
Orange Grove ..293
Pasadena ........... .272
Golden West ... .455
Golden West ....455
Golden West ... .455
Golden West ... .455
Yosemite ............ 99
Yosemite ............ 9Q
Whittier ............323
Mission .............. 169
Albert Pike ....... .484
Albert Pike ...... ..484
Sequoia .............. 349
Mount Moriah .... 44
Speranza
Italiana .......... 219
Orland ................ 265
Orland ................265
Amity ..................370
Silver Gate ........ 296
University ..........394
Las Palmas ...... 366
Montebello ........451
Montebello ........451
Montebello ........451
Hollenbeck ........319
Victorville ..........634
Argonne ............ 514
Sisson ................310
Live Oak ............ 61
Monte Vista .... 655
Golden State .... 358
Golden State .... 358
Amity ......:......... 370
Amity ................ 370
_Valley ,Forge -.... 587

107

Location
Age
Los Angeles .. 17
Monrovia ........ 15
Hollywood .... 14
Ontario .......... 17
Monrovia ...... 7
Orange ............ 16
........................ 17
Santa Paula .. 11
Santa Paula .. 8
Santa Paula .. 7
Alhambra ...... 10
Alhambra .:.... 11
Orange .......... 12
Orange ............ 13
Pasadena ....... .15
San Francisco 16
San Francisco 17
San Francisco 11
San Francisco 13
Merced ............ 13
Merced .......... 15
Whittier .......... 16
San Francis.co 7
Los Angeles ..11
Los Angdes .. 13
Oakland .....:.,..16
San Francisco 11
San Francisco 14
Orland ............ 13
Orland ............ 11
San Francisco 14
San Diego '.... 16
Los Angeles .. 12
Fresno ............ 19
Montebello .... 12
Montebello .... 15
Montebello .... 7
Los Angeles ..16
Victorville ......14
San Francisco 10
Mt. Shasta ... .18
Oakland .......... 15
Long Beach .. 9
Los Angeles .. 17
Los Angeles .. 7
San Francisco 15
San Francisco 17
Los Angeles ..11

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No. Locat1011
Age
Rowland, James.......... Aug. 1, '.13 Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa ........ 9
Rowland, George........ Aug. 1, '33 Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa ........ 12
Sachau, William........June 18, '35 Victory ..............474 San Francisco 13
Schwartz, Joseph ........ Apr. 27, '30 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles .. 15
Short, Ralph ................ Aug. 4, '28 Lafayette .......... 126 Sebastopol .... 14
Schultze, Frank..........Aug. 31, '34 Military Service 570 San Francisco 12
Smith, Robert... ........... Scpt. 4, '33 Fullerton ............339 Fullerton ........ 14
Speziali, John ............June 26, '36 Hemet ................615 Hemet ............ 9
Taylor, Floyd.............. Oct. 19, '22 Woodstock ........491 Alameda ........ 17
Van Kirk, Richard .... Dec. 30, '34 Golden City ......553 San Francisco 8
Wagnon, Frank. ...........Jan. 12, '35 Western Star .... 2 Shasta ............ 8
Wagnon, Joseph ........Jan. 12, '35 Western Star .... 2 Shasta ............ 10
Wagnon, William........Jan. 12, '35 Western Star .... 2 Shasta ............ 9
Walline, Cleon ............Jan. 31, '30 Winnedumah ....287 Bishop ............ 12
Walline, Harold........Jan. 31, '30 Winnedumah ....287 Bishop ............ 14
Watts, Jack Dean ........ Feb. 7, '32 American ..........475 Los Angeles .. 15
Whitman, Phillip........July 1, '36 Hollywood ........3.55 Hollywood .... 9
Zahn, Jerome ................ Oct. 19, '33 San Francisco ..360 San Francisco 12

Children at the Covina Home, July 31, 1936
GIRLS-69
Name
Admitt!d
Lodge
No. Location
Age
Atamian, Maxine...... Sept. 10, '34 Arlington ..........4J.4 Los Angeles .. 12
Bailey, Georgia............ Feb. 17, '31 Redondo ............328 Redondo ........15
Bayer, Blanche.......... Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles .. 14
Bayer, Carol................Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ----......351 Los Angeles .. 12
Benjamin, Gloria.......... Mar. 9, '30 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ..14
Bottger, Eleanor.......... Mar. 3, '36 Herman ............ 127 San Francisco 7
Bottger, Jewel.............. Mar. 3, '36 Herman ............127 San Francisco 9
Casabian, Ruth .......... Dec. 27, '34 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles .. 13
Casabian, Marion........ Dec. 27, '34 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles .. 16
Clark, Dorothea ........June 15, '26 So. Calif. .............278 Los Angeles .. 13
'":lark, Frances............] une 15, '26 So. Calif..,..........278 Los Angeles .. 15
Clark, Phyletha........June 15, '26 So. Calif. ..,.........278 Los Angeles .. 14
Clay, Betty Jo............ Feb. 12, '33 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ...... 15
Clay, Billie.................... Feb. 12, '33 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield .... 13
Colby, Maxine............ Nov. 28, '29 Covenant ............ 527 Los Angeles .. 1:;
Connery, Rose ............ Aug. 29, '35 Ramona ..............457 Santa Maria .. 11
Countryman, Barbara Nov. 20,'30 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco 15
Cox, Emily.................... May 16, '26 Center ................46.5 Fresno ............ 14
Craig, Bonita................June 24, '3-l The Gardens ....62'1 Los Angeles . 16
Crawford, Marion ........ Oct. 1, '32 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles .. 16
Dalmeyer, Sally Ann Mar. 15, '36 Sunrise .............. 522 Los Angeles .. 11
Ellis, Fern.................. Sept. 27, '34 Downey ..............220 Downey .......... 11
Ernst, Gladys................June 6, '31 Yosemite ............ 99 Merced ............ 16
Ernst, Marian ............ Sept. 14, '31 Yosemite ............ 99 Merced .......... 18
Falkenrath, Frances, Jan. 21, '32 Larchmont ........614 Los Angeles .. 12
Firgens, Margaret.... Apr. 28, '32 Monrovia ..........308
Monrovia ........ 16

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

N amt'
Admitted
Gee, Ethel Jane.......... Oct. 26, '32
Gildersleeve, Mary...... May 2, '36
Gildersleeve, . Va .........May 2, '36
Gorbett, Ruth................ Nov. 4, '28
Hall, Rose .................... Sept. 23, '34
Hall, Ruth ....................Sept. 23, '34
Hass, Dorothy............ Dec. 30, '33
Hass, Helen................ Dec. 30, '33
Hass, Marian ................ Dec. 30, '33
Horr, Marguerite........Jan. 27, '30
Jordan, Dorothy........May 28, '27
Kahl, Patricia.............. Nov. 12, '32
Lewellen, Edna ............July 8, '34
_Lewellen, Ida................July 8, '34
Lewin, Rosetta........Aug. 23, '.J3
McCallum, Margaret..Mar. 31, '35
Miller, Anna May........ Apr. 29, '29
Nelsen, Lillian............ Nov. 27, '27
Nelson, Ina May........ Oct. 23, 'JO
Osborn, Betty Jo ......June 16, '34
Parberry, Alic~ ..........Mar. 26, '31
Parberry, Catherine, Mar. 26, '31
Parberry, Phyllis.....,.. Mar. 26; '31
.Peterson, Jacqueline, July 22, '35
Plaster, Elizabeth....Aug. 23, '32
Primm, Maxine.......... Nov. 15, '28
Reynolds, Juliette ........May 7, '28
Richards, Betty.......... Apr. 20, '35
Richter,·Joan ................ Dec. 16, '33
Richter, M.ildred........Dec. 16, '33
Short, Beth....................Aug. 4, '28
Short, Dorothy............Aug. 4, '28
Speziali, Judith ............June 26, '36
Speziali, Thelma ........June 26, '36
Speziali, Pearl............]une 26, '36
Smith, Dawn...... ~......... Sept. 4, '33
Urban, Helen Eliz..... May 3, '34
Wall, Eleanor................ Apr. 5, '32
Whitaker, Patricia .... Apr. 29, '36
White, Marjorie ............Jan. 18, '31
Willgeroth, Eleanor, Feb. 25, '.12
Willgeroth, Wilhel. Feb. 25, '32
Williams, Patricia.... Aug. 28, '27

Lodge
No.
Covenant .......... 527
Santa Cruz ........ 38
Santa Cruz ........ 38
Ontario ..............301
El Segundo ........507
El Segundo ........507
San Francisco ..360
San Francisco ..360
San Francisco ..360
Military Service 570
Justice ................549
Chowchilla ........485
Euclid ................ 519
Euclid ................519
University ..........394
Monte Vista ......655
Durant ................268
Las Palmas ........266
Montebello ........451
Montebello ........451
Excelsior .......... lt56
Excelsior .......... 166
Excelsior .......... 166
Argonne .............. 514
South Park ..........563
Holtville ..............425
Live Oak .............. 61
Monte Vista ........655
Moneta ................405
Moneta ................405
LaFayette .:..........126
LaFayette ............126
Hemet ..................615
Hemet ..................615
Hemet ..................615
Fullerton ..............339
Park ......................449
Monrovia .............308
Henry S. Orme. ..458
Fairmont ..............4.15
Hawaiian ............ 21
Hawaiian .,.......... 21
Downey ..........~,t..220

109
Location
Aue
Los Angeles ..15
Santa Cruz .... 9
Santa Cruz ....12
Ontario .......... 15
El Segundo ....14
El Segundo ....10
San Francisco 16
San Francisco 14
San Francisco 13
San Francisco 13
San Francisco 12
Chowchilla .... 16
Los Angeles .. 11
Los Angeles .. 11
Los Angeles ..14
Long Beach ..10
Berkeley ........ 15
Fresno ............ 17
Montebello ....10
Montebello ....16
San Francisco 12
San Francisco 9
San Francisco 10
San Francisco 6
Los Angeles .. 9
Holtville ........16
Oakland ........17
Long Beach ..14
Los Angeles ..15
Los Angeles ..17
Sebastopol .... 15
Sebastopol ...... 16
Hemet ............ 14
Hemet ............ 11
Hemet ............ 6
Fullerton ........ 11
San Francisco 13
Monrovia ........11
Los Angeles .. 6
San Francisco 14
Honolulu ........13
Honolulu ........ 14
Downey ..........16

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

110

GIRLS-12

Outside Relief-Children
Date
Began
Sept., 1932
June, 1931

Feb., 1931
Jan., 1931
Mar., 1930
Mar., 1936
Feb., 1936
May, 1935
Feb., 1926
Aug., 1932
Aug., 1932
Feb., 1934
Feb., 1934
Aug., 1930
Au.g., 1931
Nov., 1925
May, 1927
Feb., 1933
Mar., 1933
Jan., 1927
June, 1929
April, 1928
Aug., 1934
Sept., 1928
Mar., 1932
Feb., 1934
Mar., 1936
Mar., 1936
Dec., 1931
Oct., 1931
Nov., 1933
Oct., 1930

111

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Monthly
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Geraldine TriPP--··--··-·······..San Jose No. 10....................$20.()0
Corrine C. and Dawn
.
Cornett ··-········--·-·--·-Santa Ana No. 241.............. 50.00
Audrey J. Llewellyn ____ ,.Reading No. 254.................. 30.00
Edith Mae IsbelL-----··-····-East Gate No. 290................ 15.00
Ellsworth K. Wisler.·-··-··--Porterville No. 303 .............. 15.00
Mary Ruth Heller--.--..Santa Monica No. 307.......... 25.00
Gloria and Edna Kirchner....Long Beach No. 327............ 20.00
Barbara and Edna Lasher-San Pedro No. 332.............. 40.00
Willard Chandler ······--········Alpha No. 431........................ 20.00
Delphine V. Beauchamp......Fullerton No. 339 ................ 20.00
Jacqueline Beauchamp ··-····Fullerton No. 339·-·--······ 20.00
Ruth 0. Doblough ................Sunset No. 352...................... 15.00
Grace M. Doblough.. ____Sunset No. 352 ...................... 15.00
Walter and Mary Smith..- ..Ocean Park No. 369 ............ 10.00
Bibby (3 children) --····--····Ocean Park No. 369............ 38.41
Havlin (2 children) ___..Le Progres de !'Oceanic
No. 371 .............................. 30.00
Pearl 0. Vincent. ______Yerba Buena No. 403 ...- ..- 10.00
Charles, Harold, Richard
and Olive Bowen.. _....- .. -Arlington No. 414.......·-···- 50.00
Lader (2 children) ---·--Schofield No. 443......·-····- 35.00
Thomas M. Carlisle.-............Schofield No. 443·-·-·····-- 20.00
Phillips (3 children) -·--·Mt. Oso No. 460.·-·-·-···-· 50.00
Ottenberg, Abraham-····-····Lincoln No. 470.................... 20.00
Troup (4 children) ····---··Golden Rule No. 479........_ 20.00
Abraham S. Hitch.·-······-···-·Point No. 503_......_.:.......... 20.00
Maas (3 children) ······-····-Cupertino No. 510 ........- ...... 60.00
Locke (3 children) ·-·····-··-Ascot No. 538--······-·--··-· 30.00
Pollack child......................- ..lonic No. 520.......·-···-····-··· 25.00
Bennett (5 children) --........Glendale No. 544•....•·--······ 30.00
Robert and William Reese ..Sunnyvale No. 577.....·--···· 30.00
Edward and Norman
Johnson ····-····---··---Point Firmin No. 558.......- 30.00
Manley P. Jones ........................ Compass No. 590.......·--····- 20.00
Wm . .and James Todd .............. Palisades No. 637 ......·-··-- 15.00

Admitted to the Covina Home
August 1, 1935 - July 31," 1936
BOYS-11
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No. Location
Burns, Roland ............Dec. 28, '35 Hollenbeck , .........319 Los Angeles .
Fuller, Harry................ Oct. 6, '35 Mt. Olive ............506 Los Angeles
Hopkins, Hugh ......- .. Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula ........291 Santa Paula
Hopkins, Paul.............. Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula ........291 Santa Paula·
Hopkins, Robert ........ Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula ........291 Santa Paula
Nelsen, Nels..:.............Aug. 31, '35 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno
Peterson, Kenneth .... ] uly 22, '35 Argonne ..:.....- ....514 San· Francisco ,
Peterson, Ralph ........ Sept. 22, '35 Victorville ..,..__ ,.634 Victorville
Ridge, Jackson.......... Sept. 11, '35 Golden State ....•...358. . Los Angeles
Spe:iiali, John.............June 26, '36 Hemet •.................615 . Hemet
Whitm!!.1t, Phillip ........Ju'ly l, '36 Hollywood ··-······355 Hotlywood · '

Lodge
No.
Hermann ............. .127
Hermann .............. 127
Ramona ................457
Sunrise ................522
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Santa Cruz .......... 38

Admitted
Name
Bottger, Eleanor........Mar. 3, ' 36
Bottger, Jewell............ Mar. 3• '36
•
Connery, Rose.......... A ug. 29 • '35
•
Dalmeyer, Sally Ann, Mar. 3, '36
Gildersleeve, Virginia Sept. 28,' 35
Gildersleeve, Mary......May 2, ' 36
Peterson, Jacqueline, July 22, '36
Skaggs, Virginia........ Oct. 4, '35
Speziali, Judith.......... June 26, '3 6

Argonne ····-········514
Mount Oso ..........460
Hemet ·············-···615

Speziali, Pearl... .........June 26, '36 Hemet ..................615
Speziali, Thelma........June 26, '36 . Hemet ..................615
Whitaker, Patricia.... Apr. 29, '~ 6 Henry S. Orme ..458

Location
San Francisco
San Francisco
Monterey Park
Los Angeles
Santa Cruz
Santa Cruz
San Francisco
Tracy
Hemet
Hemet
Hemet
Los Angeles

Departed During the Year

Aug~st 1, 1935 - July 31, 1936

BOYS-13

Name

Admitted

To Whom
Discharged

Departed

Athan, Byron ................Dec. 8, '25
Blair, Arthur.... _........ Sept. 13, ' 31
Blair, James ................ Sept. 13, ' 31
Blair, Theodore ........ Sept. 13, '31
Burgen, Fred .............. Aug. 23, ' 32

Mother............................ June 14, '36

Gee, James.................... Oct. 26, '32
Jewell, Donald ............ Aug. 28, '31
McNamara, Edward ..June 16, '35
Plaster, George..........Aug. 23, ':l 2

Cousin ......·-·-················.. June 12, '36
Outside care ····-·-··-July l, ' 36
Mother~·-······-···-····Dec. 29, '35
Grandfather....................June l8, ' 36

Runkle, Robert ............June 14, '25
Ridge, Jackson..........S ept. 11 , '35
Thacker, Marvin ........June 18, '.12
Van Kirk, Stanley, June 17, '35

Mother.............................Sept. 1, '35
Mother.............................Oct. 6, '35
Mother .....·-···-··-·······-·June 30, '36
Outside care.................. .Jan. 6, '35

Father·-·············-··---· June 19, '36
Father-··············--··-· June 19, '36
Father·-······················-··June 19, '36
Outside care .......... _ ..... June 12, '36

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

113

GIRLS-14
To Whom
Name
Admitted
Discharged
Departed
Bailey, Haroldine...:}une 22, '29 Father~............................June 13, '36
Bowser, Verna........•...Sept. 7, '27 . Married.:..............,.............Sept. 6, '35
Brown, Virginia ........ Dec. 8, '29 Father•............-,..............June 13, '36
Germond, Dolly........ Nov. 12 '24
Mother ··················-·--..June 16, '36
Kahl, Pauline..........:.Nov. 12: '32 Guardian ·····-····-······-··-June 13, '36
Mark, Elizabeth............ Aug. 6, '29 Friend............- ................June 19, '36
McNamara, Ana........June 16, '32 Mother___............:.........- ..Dec. 29, '35
Miller, Ruth ................ Apr. 29, '28 Mother.............~·-·-······-June 14, '36.
Schulte, Helen.............. Apr. 2, '25 Mother..- .........................June 13, '36
Skaggs, Virginja............ Oct. 4, '35 Mother............- ..............June 11, '36
Tyler, Barbara................Jan. 9, '26 Father.........,...... ~---·-···---June 13, '36
Tyler, DorotJiy..............Jan. 9, '26 Father........---·····-··-·····--June 13, '36
Warren, Ruth ............Sept. 28, '28 Mother_··········-···--······-June 16, '36
Washabaugh, Doris.... Dec. 18, '32 Father:·-··-···-·······--···-lune 16, '36

REPORT OF THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT
BOARD
To the M."_. W .". Grnnd Lodge of California:
Your Board herewith presents its fourth annual report, being for the
period betwen October 14, 1935, and September 25, 1936.
The Board is now constituted as follows:
Term Expiring
1936
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Edmund A. Lockett
Robert B. Gaylord
Thomas Flint
Frank M. Smith

Term Expiring
1937
Reynold E. Blight
David W. Shick
Harry E. White
Judge John F. Pullen
Howard B. Kirtland

Term Expiring
1938
Dr. Ernest G. Bashor
Arthur Crites
L ouis C. Drapeau
Eugene S. Elkus
Halcott B. Thomas

The officers of the Board are :

Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home
July 31, 1936
N.ame
Lodge No.
*Burgen, Fred..........................Alhambra ..............................322
Burns, J anice..........................Veteran ..................................373
Connery, Dean........................Ramona ................................457
*Hall, Warren..........................Sunnyvale .............................. 511
Ridge, Florrie........................Golden State ........................358
*Smith, Walter........................ Fullerton ...............;................339
*Van Kirk, Stanley................ Golden City .........................553
"'Previously cared for in the home.

Date Began
June 19, 1936
April 18, 1930
Nov. 18, 1935
June 23, 1935
Sept. 15, 1935
Feb. 8, 1934
Jan. 6, 1936

Adopted except the request for an appropriation which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

Frank M. Smith, Chairman
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Vice-Chairman

Reynold E. Blight, Secretary
William P. Filmer, Treasurer

In presenting its annual report, the Endowment Board recognizes the
limitations placed upon such a statement by the lack of time to properly present
alt phases of the program, and of the limited space allocated in the printed
copy of reports of the year. An annual report must of necessity, therefore, be
considered merely a recital of highlights of the program during the year and
must be offered in synopsis form rather than a fully detailed report replete
with every phase of the work in which the committee has dedicated its efforts.
The Board believes, therefore, that the early accountability of the work at
hand should merit the undivided attention of the assembled members and also
warrants the careful perusal of those t o whom the printed repor ts are forwarded. Only in this way may the craft throughout the State be informed of
the progress being made in the Homes Endowment program and of plans
designed to perpetuate this most altruistic and worth-while work.
Received from Lodges between August 1, 1935, and

October 4, 1935 .......................................- ...........................$ 1,422.00
Received from individuals ·between August 1, 1935, and
October 4, 1935 ....................................................................
5.00

$ 1,427.00

Received from October 4, 1935, to August 1, 1936............
Received from August 1, 1936 to Sept. 25, 1936..................

10,320.12
9,461.56
$21,208.68

Total amount of cash received from brethren and transmitted through the Lodges from July 31, 1935, to
and including Sept. 25, 1936...............- ..........:..................$20,512.12
Received from individuals..........................................................
389.56
Received from Masonic bodies other than Blue Lodge......
307.00

$21,208.68

Bequests from July 31, 1935, to August 1, 1936..................

15,973.00

TOT AL......................................................................

$37,181.68

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Included in the gifts received from Lodges are several gifts of money that
were made in lieu of sending flowers to the funeral of a deceased brother.
Donations of this character are increasing year by year, and in the judgment
of your Board this is an appropriate and beautiful way of attesting grief or
respect for a decedent by creating a lasting memorial.
During the year a gift was received from Past Grand Master Crites of one
share of stock of Bakersfield Masonic Temple Association, par value of $1Cl0.
It is estimated that contributions were made by about 5,000 members of the
581 Lodges in this jurisdiction; 323 reported contributions and 258 made no
report other than some of the lodges wrote to the committee that they could
secure no contributions.

C11pital

Permanent Endowment Fund
Appended to this report will be found the report of the auditors authorized by the Finance Committee to audit the accounts of the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes, showing a full and complete statement of
the condition of said fund as of August 1, 1936.
The Auditor's report shows the payment into the Endowment Fund made
from July 31, 1935, to August 1, 1936, while the report of your Board includes
all contributions made prior to September 25, 1936, and for this reason there
is a variance of $9,461.56, between our report and that of said auditors.
Cash on hand, August 1, 1935..............·-···-····-··················
$ 63,309.69
Receipts
Donations (from lodges, etc., $10,892.03; other,
$855.09) ····-··············-·································-···················$ 11,747.12
Bequests ···················································-······························· 15,973.00
Redemption of bonds .......................................................... ~ .. 52,802.38
Sale of stocks and bonds, etc................................·-·······--· 73,704.50
Received on Masonic Homes note........................................ 25,000.00
Bond premium amortization - 1935, $914.42; 1936,
$1,098.03 ............................................................................ 2,012.45
Miscellaneous
17.69

181,257.14

Total cash funds to account for ....................... .

$244,566.83

115

Balance per books, August 1, 1935....--··-·············-·······················-············$812,075.92
Endowment Fund Committee deposits in savings
accounts after July 31, 1935, during August,
1935; reported in 1935 annual proceedings:
Reports L; 29: 30: M .......... - .. ;····-········-···--~ ..$ 8,736.35
Reports 31: N: 32...·-····-·······-··--··-'-··-······•···- 2,727.70
11,464.05
Balance prior proceedings, August 1, 1935........
Add:
Profit on sale and redemption of securities:
Proceeds from sales, etc....................- ...................$126,542.40
Less: Value as recorded on books...................... 122,827.98

$823,539.97

Net ...............................................................................

3,714.42

Bequests, donations, etc. :
Cash ;·:·································-··························-··················$ 27,720.12
Securities (as recorded at book value)......................
447.00
Total ............................................................................

28,167.12

Balance, July 31, 1936.......·-··-············-··················

$855,421.51

John and Lena Luckenbach Fund:
Balance, August 1, 1935................................................. .
Additions 1935-36 ..............................................................

$ 28,800.00
5,400.00

Balance, July 31, 1936............................................. .

$ 34,200.00

Endowment Board Expenses
An appropriation of $4,000 was made at the last communication for
the expenses of your Endowment Board, and the whole of said sum has
been expended as shown by the following account:
Receipts

Disbursements
Stocks and bonds purchased Endowment Fund ............. .

230,479.14

Cash on hand, July 31, 1936..........................................- ......

$ 14,087.69

Balance shown by 1935 report ..............................................$
4.23
Appropriation by 1935 Grand Lodge .................................. 4,000.00

Statement of Endowment Income and Capital Accounts for the Fiscal Year
Ended July 31, 1936

Total. ...........................................................................

Income Account
Total income received from Endowment Securities (at nominal
rates) ····-····-····-····-················-···········-··-··········-··-····-····-····-····-····-$ 29 ,939.50
Deduct:
Amortization of premium, recovered and restored to Endowment
Fund Capital ···················································································-· 1,098.03

Printing and supplies....................•.........................................$ 2,539.68
301.06
Postage ····················--························-····································
Stenographic and clerical help..............................- ..............
592.80
Cuts ........................................................................................... .
26.93
Expenses executive meeting in San Francisco................. .
181.34
Expenses of meetings various cities ................................... .
30.75

Balance of income transferred to General Fwid-Masonic Homes
(at effective rates)········-······························-················-················-······$ 28,841.47
Interest income from Masonic Homes note @ 5% transferred to
General Fund-Masonic Homes....... ·-·················································· 8,645.83

Total checks drawn from November 4, 1935,
to September 25, 1936, as per vouchers on
file in office of Grand Secretary..................

Total income transferred to General Fund ...·-··············---······$ 37,487.30

4,004.23
$ 4,004.23

Disbursements

Cash in bank September 25, 1936........................
Estimated expense of Board Meeting October,· 1936... .

3,672.56
$
$185

331.67

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Relative to Activities of the Board
Following the established precedent of officially declaring the month
of May as Homes Endowment month, the Board, receiving its authorization from the Grand Master, made plans for carrying on the work of
accepting contributions ,and bequests from members of the craft in the
interests of the aged and orphaned wards of the fraternity. Mindful of
the unsettled financial cooditions of the times and in recognition of unemployment problems prevailing throughout the State, the Board, after
careful consideration, proposed and carried out a new method of obtaining
funds for the maintenance and endowment of the Homes.
In a series of letters mailed out to the Masters of every Lodge in
the jurisdiction, stress was placed on the fact that a sustained drive along
purely business lines would not, in view of the financial conditions prevailing, be received with hospitality by the membership, and that the
success of the program would depend entirely upon those who could afford
to donate to the fund and upon those who felt that the worth of the
program warranted a voluntary sacrifice. The Board consistently held that
a concerted drive for funds would embarrass those members who had
suffered financial reverses and who would absent themselves from their
respective Lodges in the face of well-intentioned but insistent solicitation
from endowment committees.
In addition to the regular flow of correspondence, the Board prepared,
printed and distributed a six-page pamphlet entitled "A Challenge to the
Hearts of California Masons," which, divided into six sections, told of the
history of the Homes and contained informative briefs of the various
phases of the work. Space in the booklet was dedicated to voluntary contributions and bequest forms. Copies of these pamphlets were supplied in
sufficient quantity to subordinate Lodges for distribution to every member
in the jurisdiction, and additional copies were on hand for added distribution upon request.
A pamphlet entitled "The Masonic Homes of California," together
with a voluntary subs.cription blank enclosed therein, was forwarded to
each Master in the jurisdiction equal to the total membership of the respective Lodges, asking the Masters to forward one to each m"e mber of their
Lodge.
One of the most helpful indications of support to the Endowment
Fund has been apparent through the interest shown by members in encouraging bequests to the Fund. Because of the very confidential nature of
such information, it is not possible to know to what· extent the Endowment
Fund is being remembered in wills. However, definite assurance and
inquiries received from time to time cause the Board to be very grateful
for the interest and loyalty being shown by the members of the fraternity.
Response to the letters and pamphlets were immediate. From Lodges
throughout the State contributions poured in and in almost every case an
accompanying letter indicated a satisfaction with, and an appreciation of,
the methods of solicitation. And while it was early apparent to the Board
that receipts for the year would not equal those of the past, · it was
impressed forcibly upon the Board by the tone of the letters received,
that the general membership reacted in a highly favorable manner to a
campaign wholly devoid of high-pressure methods and of embarrassing
situations occasioned by a concerted quota drive.
The Board, in order to express its sincere apptedatfon for contributions to the Fund, has established the practice, upon receipt of a donation
from a Lodge, to issue to the Lodge · a ·receipt for the "tbtal amount, and
then issuing individual receipts to the _members for tht;i.~ contribution.

117

Mailed with the receipt was a letter from the Board thanking said donor
for his part in making the Fund a success, explaining how the money is
expended, and inviting the donor to visit the Homes. To date, 3500 receipts
and letters have been issued and mailed.
The Board feels that herein a goal has been achieved; that criticisms
of the past have been eradicated, and that in face of the general commendation of the plan put into effect this year, the way is clearly shown
for future campaigns in the interests of the Homes. The expressed opinion
of the Board at the beginning of the year, that drives were neither necessary nor desired, and that the mass-warmth of the membership toward
the program of providing life insurance for the youngsters and peace
assurance for the aged, was an integral part of the lives of _the average
member, has been proven true, and that glad fact, coupled with the need
of a campaign of education along these lines, is bound to achieve in the
near future the complete endowment of the Homes program in California.
The Board recommends that the month of May again be designat ed
as Homes Endowment Month and that a program be instituted, with the
idea in mind that the designated month of May serve merely as a calendar
symbol for a year-around observance of, and assistance to, the program
representing the " Heart of California Masonry."
Appropriation
The Board further recommends that an additional allotment of $5,000
be made available to the committee in order that a consistent ·campaign of
education be made throughout the coming year. The Board feels that the
allocation of such a fund designed specifically for acquainting the craft
throughout the jurisdiction with our most cherished program of charity
and of mercy, will, in time, create within the breast of every craftsman,
a deeply rooted sense of partnership with, and in, the benevolent work of
California Masonry. The Board conscientiously believes that the altruistic
factors of true charity lie within the mind and heart of individual Masons,
and that it will require but an occasional reminder from the Grand Lodge,
to direct this charitable benevolence into lines of practical and harmonious
remembrance of the twin responsibilities of our jurisdiction.
In order that your Board may function during the ensuing year, we
therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
"Resolved, that the sum of ($5,000.00) Five Thousand Dollars be and
is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be paid_ to
the Masonic Homes Endowment Board for its expenses for the year ending
October 1, 1937."
In closing this report the Board gratefully acknowledges the fine spirit
of Masters secretaries and members, who in cooperating with the work
of the Horr:es, clearly evidenced their belief that "The Soul of F reemasonry
is Charity." The Board commends their splendid spirit of cooperation and
of needed assistance.
In conclusion the Board respectfully suggests that wherever possible,
visitations be made to the Homes at Decoto and Covina by members of
the craft1 for in no other way may the individual clearly understand and
appreciat e the splendid humanitarian work of the fraternity; in no other
way may the individual pilgrim feel the deep and thrilling sense of responsibility and of compensation ; in no other way may he pridefully learn -of
the care and protection offered by HIS fraternity for the more than a
quarter century of humanitarian work among the orphaned, widowed and
aged; and in no other way may he truly envision the solicitude and guar-

118

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
'I • '~"" 'II\\ 'fl

dianship accorded those who have breasted life's tide and of those whose
horizons are still tinctured with the surmise and anticipation of childhood.
Visit these Homes then-and resolve anew that your thoughts' and
your efforts in the future will be dedicated to their perpetuation; realize
that charity, the shining jewel in the crown of human virtue, is alive in
the hearts of your fraternity and that the outpourings of the spiritual
quality of charity exalts and repays itself in the definite materiality of
benefits for our helpless wards.
THIS IS THE CHALLENGE TO THE HEARTS OF CALIFORNIA MASONRY!!
May your Board express the hope that in some not far future date,
when that challenge is accepted, EVERY member of the fraternity in
California can add his epilogue to the annual report of the Homes Endowment Board by saying within his heart, "I have builded a Home,
truly Masonic."

Adopted, with the exception of that portion asking for an appropriation, which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Report of Lodge Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
No.
Lodge
Location
Cash
1 California.................................. San Francisco ..................................$ 116.00
2 Wes tern Star............................ Shasta ................................................
19.00
3 Tehama,.....................................Sacramento ........................................
93.50
5 Benicia.......................................Benicia ................................................
8 Tuolumne..................................Sonora ................................................
9 Cor1nthian .................................Marysville ..........................................
21.00
10 San Jose.....................................San Jose ............................................
81.50
12 Yount......................................... Napa .......................:..........................
13 Nevada....................................... Nevada City ......................................
14 Temple.......................................Sonoma ..............................................
1r; Eureka....................................... Auburn ..............................................
17 La Parfaite Union...................San Francisco ..................................
17.00
18 Mountain Shade...................... Downieville .............................: ........
30.00
19 San Joaquin.............................. Stockton ............................................ 106.75
20 Washington..............................Sacramento ........................................
83.50
21 Hawaiian................................... Honolulu, T. H ................................. 305.50
22 OccidentaL.............................-San Francisco ..................................
84.50
23 Madison.......·................;·.............Grass Valley ....................................
12.00
24 Mari.posa.. _ , ............................. Mariposa ............................................
25 Georgetown.............................. Georgetown ......................................
26 El Dorado................................. Placerville ..........................................
27 Trinity....................................... Weaverville ......................................
30 Golden Gate..............................San Francisco ................................ ..
8.00
32 Gold Hill................................... Lincoln ..............................................
33 Ophir..........................................Murphys ............................................
35 San Diego..................................San Diego ···················-·····················
35.50
37 Howard.....................................Yreka ..................................................
22.04
38 Santa Cruz................................ Santa Cruz ...................................... ..
7.50
40 Sacramento...............................Sacramento ......................................
32.50
41 Martinez..............:.............;.......Martinl,:z ............................................
17.00
42 L os Angeles..............................Los Angeles ......................................
43 Hiram........................................ El Dorado ..........................................
44 Mount Moriah ........ :.................San Francisco ..................................
45 Crescent.................................... Crescent City ....................................
· 46 . Tcxas......................~ ...................San Jua·n Bautista............................

No.
50
51
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64
65
66
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91
93
95

119

Lodge
Location .
Forbestown ................................Forbestown ....-. ................................
Illinoistown .............................. Colfax ...........................·-······-············
Suisun.........................c•••••••••••••• Fairfield ..............................................
Volcano.....................:................. Volcano ----······-···----··························-·
Santa Rosa ....····'-····..················Santa Rosa ........................................
Union.....................- .................Sacramento ........................................
Gravel Range...........................Camptonville ....................................
Plumas.......................................Quincy ................................................
Live Oak................ _ ................ Oakland ............,.................................
Natoma
Folsom City ......................................
Amador:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::)ackson ..............................................
Forest .........................--······-·····-··Alleghany ...............................................
Morning Star
Stockton ............................................
Enterprise............................-~'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.-~Yuba City ..........................................
Bear Mountain.........................Angels Camp ....................................
Calaveras
San Andreas .................:....................
Hum bol t.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.E ureka ................................................
I one............................................ Ione ............................·····-···········-····
Yolo......................................._...........Y olo ---·······-·····----··- ····-··········-···········
Vesper................................................Rcd ~luff ................................

Cash
32.00

~~;;~-s~;:::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::X!'~;!~viii·~·-·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

370.00

H

.

. .

42.60
409.00
48.50
70.00
25.00
5.50
5.00

.... . . . . . . . .

North Star.................................... Fort Jones .................--.........................
St Helena
St. Helena ........................................
10.00
H~nry Cla;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::sutter Creek ......................................
98 Hornitos ......................................... Hornitos ....................................................
99 Y osemite.......................................... Merced ...................:····························
94.50
101 · Clay......................:..................... Dutch Flat ...................................... ..
103 Oroville
Oroville ..............................................
104
50.00
106
110 Pajaro..................._...________ W ~t sonvi lle .........................................
50.00
111 Chico. ·····-··-···--·······-·-·•····-Chico ;··········..·································-4.00
112 Summit.........................---··-·· Knights Ferry ................................
113 Eden....................·-··-···--San Leandro ......................................
29.00
117 Concord......................____ Sacramento ........................................
2.00
119 Clinton.......................................Igo ···········;··........................................
120 Fidelity......... ~...............................San Franc1sco .......................................
142.50
37.50
122
..:::::::_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::
123
124 Table Mountain....................... Cherokee .......... _................................
126
127
96.00
128 Visalia............................................ Visalia ....................___________________________ _
129 Nicolaus.................................... Wheatland ........................................
131 Woodbridge ..............................Woodbridge ......................................
132 Sincerity...................................... Greenville ..............................................
134 Vacaville ..._....................._........Vaca ville ···········-········--······················
135
47.50
136
33.00
139
16.00
140
141 Grafton...................................... Knights Landing ............................
96.00
143 Franklin.....................................Courtland ..........................................

~;~!~:~~~::::::::::::_::::::::::::::::::::~!~ca~~n~.~...: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :

0

~~::~~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~fd~tu';~e~-~

t~~~=~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~a~~~~~is~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~;~:.~:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rE~:~~:~:.f_~:: : :_:~ _:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

120
No.
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191
192

193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209

210
211

212
214
215
216
217
218

121

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Cash
Location
Lodge
95.00
Oriental ..................................... San Francisco ..................................
Vitruvius................................... Bloomfield ........................................
Abell ...........................................Ukiah ..................................................
Eel River ................................... Fortuna ..............................................
22.50
Lassen........................................Susanville ..........................................
Molino........................................Tehama ..............................................
11.50
W oodland..................................\Voodland ..........................................
Keystone ................................... Milton .................................................
Harmony...................................Sierra City ........................................
Excelsior................................... San Francisco .................................. 209.00
Alameda.................................... Centerville ........................................ 101.50
Redwood City..........................Redwood City ..................................
65.00
Mission ...................................... San Francisco ..................................
Elk Grove...........- .....................Elk Grove ..........................................
32.00
Drytown....................................Plymouth ..........................................
Antioch......................................Antioch ..............................................
9.00
Phoenix.............................:....... San Bernardino ................................
91.50
Mendocino................................ Mendocino ........................................
Petaluma................................... Petaluma ............................................
17.00
Russian River ...........................Windsor ............................................
3.50
Arbuckle................................... Arbuckle ........................................ ...,...
Clear Lake................................ Lower Lake ......................................
Sierra Valley.............................Sierraville ..................................,.......
Claiborne................................... Point Arena ......................................
6.45
Evening Star............................ Etna ....................................................
Keith.......................................... Gilroy ..................................................
Oakland.....................................Oakland .............................................. 124.00
10.00
70.00
Santa Barbara.......................... Santa Barbara ..................................
Ferndale.................................... Ferndale ............................................
Mountain View........................ Mountain View ................................
3.50
Buckeye.....................................Winters ..............................................
San Simeon............................... Cambria :.................:...........................
77.50
49.00
...::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
7.00
Truckee......................................Truckee ..............................................
Silveyville..................................Dixon ..................................................
Pentalpha..................................Los Angeles ...................................... 198.50
Confidence.................................Castroville ........................................
Salinas..........................·..............Salinas ................................................
5.00
Olivet.........................................Corning ..............................................
9.50
Stanislaus..................................Modi;sto ..............................................
33.50
Anaheim....................................Anaheim ............................................
Rio Vista...................................Rio Vista .......................................... 102.00
King David's............................ San Luis Obispo.............................. 227.00
Friendship .................................San ] ose ............................................
33.50
San Benito................................. San Benito ........................................ 106.00
South San Francisco...............San Francisco ..................................
San Buenaventura................... Ventura ..............................................
37.00
70.00 .
Oak Grove .................................Alameda ............................................
Doric..........................................San Francisco ..................................
Monterey...................................Monterey ............................................
30.50
Mosaic........................................Livermore ..........................................

~~~~~~~-~-='.~.~~:::::::::::.·_·.".".".".".·:::.·:~!lv~~efa.~·j ··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

ii'~~i:::;~~-~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~i~~;~:tt~:

No.
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242

Cash
Lodge
Location
Speranza Italiana..............f ••••• San Francisco .................................. 130.85
Downey..................................... Downey ..............................................
26.50
Inyo............................................Indepenrlence ....................................
Roseville ....................................Roseville ............................................
15.50
Bakersfield ................................ Bakersfield ........................................
99.00
Brooklyn................................... Oakland ............................................
55.50
San Mateo.................................San Mateo ..............................:.........
26.50
Athens........................................Davis ..................................................
95.00
Solano........................................ Vallejo ................................................
10.00
North Butte .............................. Gridley ................................................
Covelo........................................Covelo ................................................
12.50
Janesville ............................•.....Janesville ..........................................
Calistoga................................... Calistoga ............................................
Hope.......................................... Beckwith ............................................
Surprise Valley.......................; Cedarville ..........................................
H ills Ferry ................................Newman ............................................
34.00
Guadalupe ................................. Guadalupe ..........................................
Colusa........................................ Colusa ................................................
61.00
Santa Ana..................................Santa Ana ........................................
Magnolia................................... Santa Barbara ..................................

~:~ ~rcc:t%~~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~~:~d..: : : : : ::::::::::::::::::: :: : : : ::::

245 Laurel ........................................ Willows ..............................................
246 Pomona..................................... Pomona ........................., ....................
247 Fresno........................................Fresno ................................................
248 Alturas ...............................•.......Alturas ................................................
250 Adin .......................................~ ....Adin ....................................................
253 Landmark..................................Esparto ..............................................
254 Reading ......................................Redding .....................'.........................
255 W elcome ................................... Lemoore ............................................
256 Lodi............................................Lodi ....................................................
258 Penrhyn.....................................Penrhyn ............................................
259 Evergreen ................................. Riverside ............................................
260 King Solomon's ....................... San Francisco ..................................
261 Tuscan .......................................Williams ............................................
262 · Lompoc ...~································ Lompoc ............................,.................
264 Hesperian ..................................Santa Maria ......................................
265 Orland........................................Orland ................................................
266 North East................................Fort Bidwell ....................................
267 Galt.............................................Galt ....................................................
268 Durant........................................Berkeley ............................................
269 Olive Branch............................Tulare ................................................
271 Snow Mountain....................... Stonyford ..........................................
272 Pasadena...................................Pasadena ............................................
273 Anchor.......................................Compton ............................................
274 Arroyo ....................................... Arroyo Grande ................................
275 Oakdale..................................... Oakdale ..............................................
277 Selma..........................................Selma ..................................................
278 Southern California................. Los Angeles ....................................
279 Hanford.....................................Hanford ............................................
280 Madera.......................................Madera ..............................................
281 Mount Shasta...........................Anderson ............................................
282 Callayomi.................................. Middletown ......................................
283 South West..~ ............................National City ....................................

75.50
7.00
17.50
98.00
8.00
2.50
7.00
8.50
33.50
31.00
23.50
156.50
52.00
98.00
47.50
223.08
69.50
154.50
8.00

25.00
40.00

122

No.
28S
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
29S
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
30S
306
307
308
309
.110
312
313
314
31S
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
32S
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
33S
336
337
338
339
341

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Cash
Lodge
Location
San MigueL----·------------············San Miguel ·---'··································7.00
Paso Robles...._......................... Paso Robles ......................................
Winnedumah............................Bishop ................................................
MaxwelL....:.....................-........Maxwell ............................................
36.07
Elsinore......................·-·--·········· Elsinore ········--·············-······················
East Gate.............................-.....Los Angeles ...................................... 307.SO
12.SO
Santa Paula-..............................Santa Paula ......................................
Los Gatos.........................-........Los Gatos ·····················-··--········---·····
Orange Grove...·-············--········Ora-nge ----················-··········---············
Traver...........·-·-·-·--····················Kingsburg ·--···-········--·······················
Mt. Jackson...............................Guerneville ........................................
Silver Gate................ ·--············ San Diego ..........................................
Dunsmuir................................:.Dunsmuir ..........................................
30.SO
Liberty.......................................Santa Clara ......................................
67.SO
Redlands ................................... Redlands ............................................
Ontario......................................Ontario ..............................................
34.SO
Santa Lucia...............................King City .......................................... .
Porterville................................. Porterville ........................................
74.00
Reedley......................................Reedlcy ··········--····················-············
Azusa......................................... Azusa ..................................................
17.SO
Ashlar........................................ Colton ................................................
13.SO
48.SO
Santa Monica.....·-···················-·Santa Monica ....................................
42.00
Monrovia..........................._.......Monrovia ···················--··············--····
Delano........................................Delano ................................................
Sisson.........................................Mount Shasta ..................................
23.SO
Los Banos.................................Los Banos ........................................
7S.OO
Tehachapi...._...................·-······· Tehachapi ·····---·································· 129.00
32.SO
S.00
Sanger........................................Sanger ................................................
47.00
Fall brook.............-.:.................. Fall brook ···---····································
Emanuel.................................... Biggs ..................................................
3S.SO
Hollenbeck................................Los Angeles ·-····-·······························
South Gate...............................•Los Angeles -····--······························18.SO
AlisaL.-·-······················--············Pleasanton ........................................
S7.SO
Alhambra--•············-····-··········..Alhambra ··-············..·························
Whittier___..................................Whittier ............................................
90.43
Corona........._...........................•Pasadena ............................................
S8.00
Consuelo...........................---······Escondido -····-··-:·-·-····-..·-····-···..··---····
N eedles--·--········-----····--···-A·-···-·-N eedles -··-··-·-···--································
Long Beach......~........................Long Beach ···-'·································· 113.00
Redondo......-.............................Redondo Beach ··························-····
Vallee de France......................Los Angeles ......................................
34.00
Kilauea.......................................Hilo, T. H .........................................
Pacific Grove............................ Pacific Grove ....................................
San Pedro..................................San Pedro ........................................
10.00
49.90
Alta...·-·-····································--Bridgeport ........................................
Covina........................................Covina ...,............................................
West Gate.........., ...................... Los Angeles ...................................... 176.00
Fruitvale............................ ________ Oakland ............................... ~ ............ 1lS.SO
22.00
Carquinez--------·--·········-········-····Crockett ·--·····-····---····························
San Jacinto................................San Jacinto ........................................
Fullerton ..........- ...........:........... Fullerton ............................................
43.00
Oxnard.......................................Oxnard ··--·········--············-·················

~~r;i;~~~~---·_-_._._._._._._-.-:.-.-.·.·_·_-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.·.·.·.-.~ ~~~::1k···::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

No.
343
.344
34S
346
347
348
349
3Sl
3S2
353
3S4
355
356
3S7
358
3S9
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370

123

Lodge
Location
Cash
San Fernando...........................San Fernando .................................... 57.50
Starr King.................................San Francisco ..................................
6S.SO
Brentwood................................ Brentwood ·'····························--···-··
78.00
Palo Alto................................... Palo Alto ····································-····
McKinley.................................•Richmond ..........................................
19.00
San Bernardino........................ San Bernardino ................................
Sequoia...................................... Oakland .............................................. 122.00
Palestine....................................Los Angeles ......................................
Sunset.....................:.........._......• Los Angeles ......................................
2S.OO
Pinole.........................................Hercules ............................................
100.SO
121.00
Mill Valley................................ Mill Valley ........................................
S8.00
Buena Park............................... Buena Park ......................................
6.00
Golden State............................. Los Angeles ......................................
98.SO
Loyalton...........:........................Loyalton ............................................
91.00
San Francisco...........................San Francisco ······--····················-····

~~l~;!!.~~d::·.:::::::::::::::·.:~::::::::::~a:i,;;~~~is~~--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~~:~~£:~-~:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_: _:_:_:~_:_:~_:_:_:_: _: _: :_: _:_: : ~:~~~e~lg~::::::: : :: : :: : : : :: : : : :: : : :

Willits........................................Willits ................................................
Las Palmas............................... Fresno ................................................
South Pasadena......................•South Pasadena ................................
Unity............,..............:............... Glendale ............................................
Ocean Park............................... Ocean · Park ......................................
Amity......................................... San Francisco ..................................
371 le Progres de l'Oceanie...........Honolulu T H
372 Gardena..................................... Gardena '......:......:::::::::::::::~:::::::::~:::::
373 Veteran............................__ ......West Los Angeles............................
374
37S
376 Francis Drake...........................San Francisco
377
378
379
380 Huntington Beach................... Huntington Beach .........................:
381 Oceanside..................................Oceanside .....:....................................
382 Highland Park......................... Los Angeles ......................................
383
384
385
387
388 Parnassus.................................. San Francisco ..................................
389 Palos Verdes.............................Long Beach ......................................
390
391
392 West Lake.................................Los Angeles ......................................
393
394
39S
396
397 Rising Light............................. Huntington Park ..........................~.
399
400
401

~;~~~~<l::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~ ~~:~~;:~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~;~~~~-: : : : : : : : ·: : : ~: : : : : : :~g~:~ :~-~ . : : ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ : ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ :

i;~~~~:~~;~=~-.~~-~~~~i~~~~~~. . :-.-.~::::~=~~-.. : :~:
~~~te~::t·.::·.:·.·.-.-.-.-.-.~:.::·.·:.:·:.:·.-.-.~.-.·.:·.::~~r:~;::~~-··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

S.00
S.00
131.00
S8.00
3S.OO
229.00
20.SO
SS.SO
12.00
140.SO
15.00
5.00
64.34
35.00
2.SO
66.00
40.00
100.00
61.00

~~~Iil~~~~~~~-~~~::~~-~!g~~~~~:~::~. -.--.--.:~~~~

42S.SO
82.SO
100.SO
11.00
71.00
26.00

=~;~~~~~~:~·:~-:~~~-:-:·:~~:~~~~~-:~-:-:~~~~~~~:::~em~:::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :

49.00

124

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.
Lodge
Location
402 Bra wleY-----·-···-··············---·-·--·---Brawley ---··-····-····-·--··-····-·······-··--------·
403 Yerba Buena·--··------····---·---------·Oaki'lnd --··--------·--·-------··-··--·--------------404 Glendora ___________________________________ ,Glendora --------·····-·-·---·---···--·-·-······--··405 Moneta..:.................................... Los Angeles ·---··-·-·······-·-···--··----·-··-··406 Burbank.....................................Burbank -------------------········--····----··---·407 La M esa.·--·-·-····--·-····-·---····--··-···La Mesa ·---·--·--·····----·--····-··-········--····
408 Sierra Madre·-··---········-----····-····Sierra Madre --···-------···----------····--··-··
409 Honolulu ................................... Honolulu, T. H .................................
410 Charter Rock ............................Berkeley ··-··---·····----~---····--·--·--·····--····
411 Perris ................•........................ Perris ·-----··········-···--··········--··-······-·-·--·
412 Calexico.....................................Calexico ·--····--······-········-····--··········-····
413 \Vaucoba....................................Big Pine ····----···-·····-···········-···--·····-···
414 Arlington...................................Los Angeles ··-·············-·-······-··-----·-·
415 Silver Trowel ___________________________.Los Angeles ·····----·-·······-···-········----·
416 Lindsay_····-····------·-··--------···---··-·Lindsay ----------------·-----------·----·----·------417 Clovis.........._. _____________________________ Clovis ---------·----·-··-·-------·--···---------·-··-·-·
418 Elysian _______________________________________ Los Angeles ··------------------------------·---··
419 Upland __________________,____________________ Upland ----··-------------------·--··--·-·--·-··-·----·
420 Kerman·-------····--------------··--····-·-·Kerman -·-····---·······-····-······--···········-···
421 Inglewood................................Jnglewood ·············---····-·····--·--·······---·
422 Eagle Rock------·-------·-·----·-···-·---Los Angeles -···-···----···-····----------··-·····
423 York...·-·-···········-·--···--··---·-·······-·Los Angeles ·--·····----········-------····--·---424 Exeter........................................Exeter -··-·----·--·······-···-·---·-····------·---··-·
425 Holtville ____________________________________,Holtville ·-······-········-···············--·········
426 Midway......................................Taft -············-·············-·-······--------··--····
427 Chino Valley.. ___________________________Chino ··--················--·····-·······--·············
428 San Dimas.................................San Dimas ··----·····--------·---·-·---------··--·
429 Pittsburg·-------·-·-----···-···--·--------- Pittsburg ···-------·-------·------------·-·---------·
430 McCloud ____________________________________McCloud -------------·--------·-··---···--··---·····
431 Alpha......----·-···----------············-·-··Richmond ..........................................
433 Hammonton............................. Hammoriton ·····-··················-··········-··
434 Maricopa....·--·····----·····-·············Maricopa ---·····-·-·---·-----------·-···-·······--··
435 Fairmount.................................San Francisco ····-------·-···--················
436 Claremont_________________________________ Claremont ·-·-···················--··----·····---···
437
438
439 Tyrian·--···········---····-····--··········-·Manteca ·······-·--·····---·······-···················
440 Standard.................................... Oakland ······-·----····-----·---·····------·····--·-·
441 Coronado...................................Coronado ····-·············-···-···--·········----·
442 Blackmer_________________________________ .San Diego -····--------··-----------·---··-·······-·
443 Schofield.................... ______ .________.Schofield Barracks, H. T _______________
444 Carpinteria........----·-····----·······--·Carpinteria ·-·-·--·····--·-········--·-···-········
445 Wilshire.....................................Los Angeles ·---·······------------···-·······-···
446 La Puente ................................. Puente~---··············-···············--·······--····
447 Torrance·--········--·-······-----·······--Torrance ···-··········--·-··-·······-············-··
448 Mount Diablo...______________________ .. Concord ·--·-········---·-·-----··-···-·---······----·
449 Park......·--·······-···-·--···-···-·--········.San Francisco ---··--·······--··-···-····-···--·
450 Van N uys ..........................•....... Van N uys ···-----··-····----·····-···-·-··-·····--·
451 Montebello................................~Iontebello ··--·-·····---------···-·--··-·····-·--·
452 San Pasqual.............................. Pasadena ····--·--···········--······--····-······--·
453 Bethlehem.................................San Francisco ··--···-·····--·-·--·······-······
454 Crocker......................................Daly City ···············--·····-···················
455 Golden West................·--········ San Francisco ············-·····-·····-··-······
457 Ramona·---········-··········---·······-·--Monterey Park ···-·······-···--···········-·-·
458 Henry S. Orme........................ Los Angeles ···········--············-········--··

~~~~~~-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::t~~c~s:;~le-~~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Cash

28.50
5.00
80.00
11.00
215.50
7.00
41.18

13.50
5.00
92.00
3.00
10.00
19.00
63.69
142.50
11.00
136.50
4.00
2.00
128.00
35.50
33.00
65.00
5.00
25.50
60.00
66.00
126.00
78.00
67.50
27.00
75.00
79.00
2.00
9.50
33.00
12.00
75.50

No.
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
496
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508

509
510
511
512
513

125

Cash
Lodge
Location
Riverbank ...·--·-···-······-·········-·--·Riverbank -·····---···-·············-····-·····-·-··
Mount Oso................................Tracy ·············································-····
78.50
Argonaut.................................. ~San Francisco -··-----·--····-··--··-··--·-···-65.50
Paul Revere .............................. San Francisco -------·········---·-·--·-·-----··
Morgan Hi!L __________________________.Morgan Hill --·-·-·-------··----------------··--··
31.00
Alta Vista·-··---------·--·---·-·-·-···--·-·San Francisco ---·-----··----·--------··---·····
Center·--·----···--·---························Fresno ···-············································
44.50
Libertas......·-·····--···------······-·-··-·Bakersfield --··-··--········-···-·······-···-·-·-··
38.50
Culver CitY---·········-·------···········Culver City ······----··-··-····-······-····--·····20.50
Rdckridge .................................. Oakland ··-··---·····--···········-··········-·--·····
Yorba Linda.............................Yorba Linda ··-·-··-----····--·-··-······-······
58.00
Lincoln ............................"--·------San Francisco -------····-···----··-············
14.00
Delta...---·············-····-···········-····· Stockton ----···-··----·-······--···-···············
Maui·-···---·-·········-·······-·········--····Kahului, Maui, T. H ....................... 263.00
Blythe........................................ Blythe -···············--······························
Victory...................................... San Francisco ······-·········-········-·--·····
America.....................................Los Angeles ·-----------··-··-----···-···-·-·-····
51.50
Coachella................................... Coachella ·····-·-·-·-·····-···--·---······-·-······
Temblor.....................................Fellows ····----·-···--·--··········--········--······
Thousand Oaks·-···-···--··--··--·--··Berkeley ·-······-·---------·-·····--······-·········
35.50
Golden Rule ..............................San Jose --·-··-···--············-········----·······
10.00
Fellowship .......................- ....... Oakland ·····--······-·-·············-··-·············
Mt. Davidson............................San Francisco ..................................
90.00
Clarence F. Smith................... Los Angeles ········-······-·--········---·--·····
27.00
Bell .............................................Bell ······-·······-·····--··-·······-···············-··-··
31.00
Albert Pike.·--··-·-·--··-·--··---··--···-Los Angeles ·-····-·······························
Chowchilla................................Chowchilla ·-··············-·······--·········-····
39.00
Caledonia...........----·--·········-······ Bakersfield ··-················-·-·-·-···-··········
Vallejo....................................... Vallejo ··-·--·-··················--·········---········
Patterson...................................Patterson ··--·····--···········---········---··-···
44.00
East Bay....................................Berkeley ··-·····--·-············--·····~·--·······
Corcoran....·-··---·······-··-······----··-Corcoran ---·······------·······---··········---·····
Woodstock................................Alameda ···----·················-·-······-··········
Garvanza...................................Los Angeles ················---·········-----·····
20.00
A tascadero................................A tascadero ·······-··--····························
32.50
Acorn..·-······-·····-·····-···········--·--·· Oakland --·········---···········-··············-·····
26.52
Lebanon...................................•San Francisco ···-·······-·-·············:......
Riverdale ...................................Riverdale ·············--·····-·········-·········-···
10.00
Fremont---····-···-·······-·············-·· Oakland ················-·····························
9.00
Stockton....................................Stockton ··········-···········--······-··---·-······
Capital City...............................Sacramento ·······---····························
Roosevelt .................................. San Francisco ..................................
Westwood........................... ~ .....Westwood ··········--···········-·········-········
12.00
Harbor·--·············-··-·-·····-···-----···Richmond ·······-······-····--···················19.00
Point...........................................Richmond -···-·····-·-··-·····--·--·-·-············
25.00
Seaside........ ·-----·-···-·----·····-·---·-··Long Beach .......: ....---··---····--------···-··
Silver Cord....---·--···-·--····-····-·····Santa Ana --·-----·---·-------··--····--······--·-··
2.00
Mount Olive_______________________ ...... Los Angeles ····-··--······-···-········--········
10.00
El Segundo..·-·······--···--······---····El Segundo -··-·····-···-··-·--····················
Joppa. .........................................San Joaquin ·--··----···--·····-··--············-·
42.50
Benjamin Franklin.................. Los Angeles ···········----··-···········-········
Cupertino.....----·····-·····----·····-···· Cupertino ·········-·········--·············-·······
Sunnyvale................................. Sunnyvale ········-···············-·--··············
15.00
Palms ......................................... Los Angeles ·····--··········-·-·-········-·-·····
11.00
Cahuenga.................................. Los Angeles ·······-··-·············-······-······

126
No;

514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
553
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567
568
569

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Location
Cash
Argonne.... ---················-··········· San Francisco ······························-·
Vermont Square ...................... Los Angeles ......................................
72.90
Taft.....- •............:.·-···········-·······Taft ....................................................
Mount Vernon......................... San Francisco ..................................
61.00
19.00
La Jolla..........- ...................•...•.La Jolla ······························-··············
50.00
Euclid.. _....---···············-····--·--Los Angeles ..................................... .
Ionic........................................... Los Angeles ......................................
Piedmont................................•.. Piedmont .................:_··················-··
Sunrise.......~ ........•......................Los Angeles ··············-·····················
Bellflower..................................Bellflower ..........................................
15.00
Catalina Island............. _.........Avalon ······································-········
George Washington ................San Francisco ..................................
22.00
Bay City ...............................----San Francisco ································Covenant. .................................. Los Angeles ...:..•...............................
40.00
Loyalty...............- .....................Los Angeles ......................................
Sun Garden ...............................Fresno ...............................................•
72.25
Alexandria ............................ - .. San Francisco ·····························-···
Smyrna...................................... Ceres ·············································-··
Azure......................................... Fullerton ·······································-···
Forest Hill ................................ San Francisco ..................................
11.50
Alexander Hamilton ............... Los Angeles ······························-······
Seal Rock. ................................. San Francisco ..................................
21.00
Utopia............... _....................... Los Angeles ··············-······················
Ascot.........- ...............................Los Angeles .....................................•
32.50
Belvedere................................... Los Angeles ...........:..........................
29.00
Queen Beach ....·-·-···················Long Beach ......................................
Henry Morse Stephens .......... Berkeley ............................................
42.50
Lankershim .............................. North Hollywood ............................
41.50
15.50
Signal ......................................... Long Beach ·······························-····
Glendale ........- .......................... Glendale ........................................... .
2.00
Jonathan ....................................San Francisco ..................................
6.00
San Gabriel ............................... San Gabriel ......................................
9.00
Arcadia....................... _............. Arcadia .............................................•
Triangle .....................................V enice ................................................
14.00
Justice........................................ San Francisco .................................•
5.00
Seaport. ......................................San Francisco ..................................
47.00
16.00
Lakeshore ..............·-··············--Oakland ........................................... .
Semper Virens .......................... Eureka ................................................
Golden City...............................San Francisco ···············-·················
5.00
Educator....................................San Francisco ..................................
White Pine....... _.......................W eed ······································-··········
20.00
Fairfax.......................................Fairfax ................................................
13.50
Hermosa.................................... Hermosa Beach ......:.........................
Point Firmin............................ San Pedro ..........................................
30.50
Craftsmen ................................. Los Angeles -····································
Plymouth .................................. Oakland ..............................................
East San Diego ........................ San Diego ..........................................
11.50
64.00
Pyramid ..........................•..........San Francisco ····················-············
South Park................................Los Angeles .....................................•
50.00
53.50
Foothill ......................................Oakland ··········-··································
West Adams .............................Los Angeles ......................................
James A. Garfield.................. _Los Angeles ...................................... . 38.00
Searchlight................................Long Beach ......................................
1.00
19.00
Park Boulevard ........................ Oakland ··········-··················--············
9.00
Chateau Thierry...................... Oakland ............................................. .

No.

570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577

127

Cash
Lodge
Location
12.00
Military Service ....................... San Francisco ..................................
57.00
Francis K. Shattuck................Berkeley '·································-········
43.00
James Madison ........................ Los Angeles ......................................
Hillcrest.................................... Berkeley ............................................
36.00
S. W. Hackett ........................... San Diego ....................-......................
Fort Crook ..................- ............ Fall River Mills ................................
El Cajon Valley....................... EI Cajon ................•...........................
11.00
Sunnyside ........ ---·······-············ ..Los Angeles ......................................
Progressive ...............................Los Angeles -·····································
Warren G. Harding................ North Sacramento ......................... .
Santa Maria .............................. Ramona ..............................................

578
579
580
26.00
581
i~~~~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~f:i~:s~-~~~
582
Wasco .........
583 Wasco ...............................
Harding
.....................................
Los Angeles ......................................
584
585 Manchester........ c•••••••••••••••••••••• Los Angeles ......................................
586 Garden Grove .. . _ ............................Orange ............................................... .
587 Valley Forge.............................Los Angeles ......................................
588 El Seren~·-······················----~·-···Los Angeles ..................................... . 382.00
589 Kauai.. ........................................Lihue, Kauai, T. H .......................... .
590
591 ~~:¥:~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:~~:
592 Tujunga...........................•.........Tujunga ............................................
Beach ......................................
593 All States Lodge......................Long
50.00
Long Beach ......................................
594 Service
Alexand~;·c:;;;h;~"B;ii:::::::::Los
Angeles
.....................................
.
595
South Gate ........................................
596 Guardian
24.50
597 Truth ......::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Los Angeles ...................................-. 117.50
Pearl
Harbor
............................
Honolulu,
T.
H
................................
.
598 Carmelita
54.00
Pasadena ............................................
599
600
601
25.00
602. Dimond
19.50
Oakland ..............................................
603 Jubilee ······································Santa Ana ..........................................
4.00
604 Glasseli"·P·;;!«.".".".".".".".·.·_·_·_·.-.·.·.·.·.·.·.·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-Los Angeles ...................................... 51.50
605
Monrovia ········································-·
607 Sojourner
42.65
608 Granada...::::::::::::::·.::::::::::::::::::~Alhambra ..........................................
25.50
Provident
..................................
Sacramento
.......................................
.
609
Elmhurst
Oakland
-···········································
610
26.00
611 Canoga....·:::.·::.:·:::.·:.·.·.·.:·.::::·.·.:·:::.·:.:·.:canoga P~rk ··········-························
13.00
Temple
City
..............................
Temple
City
.....................................
.
612
Three
Pillars
Sacramento
.......................................
.
613
614 Larchmont ... .".".".".".".-."."."."."."_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-.-_~Los Angeles ......................................
615 Hemet .................................................................... Hemet .........................................................
Beach
Seal Beach ........................................
616 Seal
Big Bear ·······························-Pine Knot ..........................................
617 Southland·································· Los Angeles ......................................
55.00
618
2.00
619
..
::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
47.00
620
621 The Gardens .........................:...Los Angeles .....................................•
18.00
622 Atwater ......................................Los Angeles ...................................... 71.00
Menorah
....................................
Los
Angeles
.....................................
.
623
60.50
624 Fortitude ........................................... - .. Oakland ....................................................---···
34.00
Angeles
Mesa
...........................
Los
Angeles
.....................................
.
625

. .::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

u

...............

u

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

~~2~~-~-~=-~~~:~~~~~-~~~::~:::;i~:=:=~~=~~~::=.=.:::=.=.=.:::=.::

~~r;~~~~~:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_::_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_::_~:-~~}~:~~~~c~

128

No.
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
640
641
642
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
. 655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
664
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Location
Chula Vista............................... Chula Vista ......................................
Lamanda Park......................... Pasadena ............................................
Beacon of the W est................Los Angeles ......................................
Fairview...........................:........ lnglewood ........................................
I ngleside ....................................San Francisco ..................................
Benevolence .............................. Los Angeles ......................................
Normal Heights........................San Diego ..........................................
Poinsettia.................................. Ventura ..............................................
Victorville................................. Victorville ..........................................
Riverside................................... Riverside ............................................
John Marshall.......................... West Hollywood ............................
Palisades.....................................Santa Monica --~---······························
Indian Rock..............................B erkeley ............................................
Composite................................. Los Angeles ......................................
Veritas....................................... San Francisco ························-········
James A. Foshay..................... Los Angeles ......................................
La Cumbre ................................Santa Barbara ..................................
Alta Loma.................................Long Beach ......................................
Lomita....................................... Lomita ................................................
A. F. E. Irwin...........................San Pedro. ..........................................
Metropolitan.............................Los Angeles ......................................
Ha wthorne ................................Ha wthorne ........................................
Damascus..................................San Bernardino ................................
Florence..................................... Los Angeles ......................................
La Brea...............................- .....Los Angeles ......................................
Menlo Park............................... Menlo Park ......................................
Cres cen ta Valley......................Montrose ............................................
Fontana..................................... Fontana ..............................................
J ordan........................................Los Angeles ......................................
Monte Vista.............................. Long Beach ......................................
CitroL........................................ Brea ....................................................
J~h!1 D . Spreckels................... S~n. Diego ..........................................
L1v1ngston.................................L1vmgston ........................................
La Habra................................... La Habra ..........................................
Baldwin Park........................... Baldwin Park ..................................
Malta..........................................Los Angeles ......................................
Henry Knox............................. Los Angeles ......................................
Ojai.............................................Ojai ....................................................
Oasis...........................................El Centro ..........................................
Kaweah......................................Woodlake ..........................................
Reseda........................................Reseda ................................................
Meridian.................................... Glendale ............................................
San Gorgonio............................ Banning ..............................................
John P. J arman ......................... San Jose ............................................
Greenleaf................................... Whittier ............................................
San Clemente ............................San Clemente ....................................
Laguna Beach.......................... Laguna Beach ..................................
Far West ...................................San Francisco ..................................
Los Cerritos ..............................Long Beach ......................................
Modesto.....................................Modesto ............................................
Willow Glen ............................. Willow Glen ....................................
Liberal Arts.............................. Los Angeles ..................................... .
Altadena.;.................................. Altadena ............................................
Canby's Cross...........................Tulelake ............................................
Carmel....................................... Carmel ................................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

129

Report of Auditors

Cash

To the Endowment F1~nd Committee, Masonic Homes of California:
69.00

In accordance with the authorization of the Finance Committee, we
audited the accounts of the Permanent Endowment Fund of the
Masonic Homes of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1936. The
following statements are presented herewith:
h~.ve

49.00
1.00
45.00
100.00
13.00

22.42
24.00
7.00
12.00
42.00
17.00
21.00
26.00
31.00

66.50
5.00
17.00
10.00 •
22.00

7.00
39.00

Exhibit A: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit B: Statement of Composition of Endowment Fund (5 pages).
Exhibit C: Statement of Securities Redeemed and Sold.
Exhibit D: Statement of "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund."
Exhibit E: Statement of Endowment Income and Capital Accounts.

Semrities-(Exhibit B):
Corporate stocks and irrigation bonds have been received by donation
a5 noted. Certain of the bonds, other than irrigation, have been acquired bv
donation and are so marked by the letter "D" under Exhibit B. In the cas~
of donated securities the stated or book value represents the value placed
upon the securities at time of donation. Where the value is uncertain, because of it being an unlisted or a closely held security, entry is made on the
books at a nominal $1.00 value for purposes of record.
Bonds purchased are recorded on the books at cost including premium.
A reserve is set up to measure the amount of premium written off or
amortized. The amount of this reserve is deducted from the total book
Yalue of regular endowment securities, Exhibit B.
Additions through purchase or donation during the current fiscal year
have been listed at the close of Exhibit B, for ready reference; and disposals
have been set in detail in Exhibit C. During the fiscal year total securities
have been purchased in amount $230,479.14, as per Exhibit B; and total
securities have been sold or redeemed in amount $126,542.40, as per Exhibit c.
Total market values obtainable as at July 31, 1936, have been noted in
the Endowment Fund summary at the end of Exhibit B.
The endowment income account shows a total net credit of $28,841.47
arising from interest and dividends received during the current fiscal year,
w!iich has been made available to the Masonic Homes General Fund.
Under Exhibit D is a statement of the "John and Lena Luckenbach
Fund"-a special endowment fund. This statement shows the cash funds
of $28,800.00 according to our prior report plus additional cash received during the current year invested in securities purchased. A separate bank account was opened during the year, Anglo California National Bank No.
24201. According to the terms of the trust the income therefrom is to be
used in the same manner as income from the regular endowment fund.
We certify that the attached statements, in our opinion, set forth the
condition of the Permanent Endowment Fund as at July 31, 1936, with exception as to the stated or book values of securities on hand, and that a
proper accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
Respectfully submitted,
RucKSTELL & LAND,
Certified Public Accountants..
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit A

East Bay Municipal Utilities District, water, 5% due
1947 ··········-················································································ 5,326.55
15,000 El Segundo High School District, 5% due 1952-53........ 16,015.08
15,000 7olden Gate Bridge & Highway District, 4~%, .due
959-67-71 ··································································-············ 15,684.60
30,000 ~~~en Gate Bridge & H ighway District, 4~%. due
69 -···-····················································································· 29,827.63
1,500 Jonathan Club Building Co., 2nd mortgage Leasehold Serial Gold, 7%, due 1952............................'................ 1,500.00
10,000 Los Angeles, City of, water works, Class H, Series
No. 1, 5% due 1974................................................................ 11, 115.73
5,000 Los Angeles Railway Co., of California, . First mortgage, Gold, 5% due 1938........................................................ 5,000.00
45,000 Los Angeles, City High School District, 5% due
19!rl-59-60-64 .......................................................................... 50,426.96
15,000 Los Angeles, City of, Electric Plant, 5% due
1952-61 ··················································--·-····························· 16,546.47
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, Harbor, 4~%. due 1960.............. 5,471.55
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, Sewer, 4~%, due 1965.....·-····-- 5,512.05
10,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water, 4Yz% due 1965................ 10,254.00
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., General and Refunding
mortgage, 5% due 1942 ........................................................ 5,000.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., First and Refunding
2,000
mortgage, Gold, 6%, . due 1941........................................ D 2,000.00
1,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., First and Refunding
mortgage, Gold, 6%, due 1941..........................................D 1,070.00
17,000 Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co., First mortgage
and Collateral First Sinking Fund, 5% due 1937........ 17,000.00
1,000 iick Barth Holding Corp., Five year note, 6% due
935 ······················-················-······-······-·······--················D 1,000.00
2,000 Richmond, City of, Municipal Improvement,
5% due 1949-52........................................................................ 2,000.00
10,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Sewer, 5% due
1945-47 ··········-·········································································· 10,000.00
35,000 San Francisco, City and County of Hetch Hetchy
5~% due 1963...............................,..........'........................:......'. 37,561.94
10,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Hetch He.tchy,
5~% due 1954-55.....·-····························--················--··-···· 10,706.00
21,000 San Francisco, City and County of, City Hall 5%
due 1939-60 ....................................................................:......... 21,000.00
30,000 ~an Francisco, City and County of, Water, 4Yz%. due
942 ············································-········································-···· 30,000.00
1,000 Santa Barbara, City of, Municipal Improvements,
Water, 4Yz% 'due 1948 .......................................................... 1,000.00
8,062.50
~.062Yz Santa Barbara, City of, 4Yz%, due 1936-44......................
15,000 Stockton, City of, Harbor, 4Vz %, due 1952-59................ 15,934.50
10,000 Temescal Water Co., First mortgage 5% due 1960...... 10,075.00
48,400 U . S. Treasury Bonds, 3 ~-4~%, due 1945.................... 48,400.00
100 University Masonic Temple Association Second
mortgage, (registered) 6% due 1949........•....:•.........,.......
100.00
2,500 Upland, City of, Municipal Improvement, 6%,
due 1936-42....•..·-······-····························-··-················D 2,500.00
500 San Diego First National Co., 5Yz% Sinking Fund
due 1942 •................................................•............•.....................
250.00
5,000

STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1936

Cash on hand, August, 1, 1935........................................

$ 63,309.6'.)

Receipts
Donations (From Lodges, etc., $10,892.03; other
$855.09) -··········----······················-········--······--$11,747.12 '
Bequests ····························-················--·····---··-········--- 15,973.00
Redemption of bonds (for details see Exhibit C) .... 52,802.38
Sale of stocks and bonds, etc. (for details see Exhibit 7) ··························-··········-················-·········-- 73,704.50
Received on Masonic Homes note...................·-········- 25,000.00
Bond premium amortization (1935-$914.42; 1936$1,098.03) ··············································-········-····-- 2,012.45
Miscellaneou.s ····································--······-················-·17.69
181,257.14

Total receipts ························-······-·········-····-·
Total cash funds to account for ................................................

$244,566.83

Disbursemen ts
Stock and bonds purchased-Endowment Fund........

230,479.14

$

Cash on hand, July 31, 1936.._..........................................

14,087.69

Not'e: Reports A-3, $616.50; A-4, $958.50; A-5, $581.68; A--0, $1,428.76; A-7,
$633.00; A-8, $882.69; and A-9, $1,547.00 or a t?tal of $6!648.13 were
received in August, 1936. These items are not included m the above
statement.

EXHIBIT B
COMPOSITION OF ENDOWMENT FUND
JULY 31, 1936

Cash (Savings Accounts):
Crocker First Federal Trust Company ................$
5.00
American Trust Company ........................................
5.00
Anglo California National Bank .............................. 9,886.94
Bank of America (Humboldt Branch) ....................
5.00
Bank of America (French American Branch) ........
5.00
The San Francisco Bank ............................................ 1,930.60
Due from "Luckenbach Fund"
(To be transferred) ................................................ 2,250.15

-

Total ·····-··········-·······----·::.....•.......---···"···········-····--·-···..,-$ 14,087.69
Book Value
Bonds: (Acquired prior to July 31, 1935)
$ 1,000 Ashland, City of, water 5%, due 1959................................$ 1,000.00
10,000 Beverly Hills, water, 5%, due 1947-48................................ 10,687.70
5,000 Bishop Union High School District, 5% due 1949........ 5,159.35

131

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

132

Irrigation Bonds: (Donated)
1,000 Anderson Cottonwood Irrigation .District, First Issue
No. 1, 6%, due 1937 ····································-·····················D
1,000 :imperial Irrigation District, Issue No. 4, 6%, due
1983 ........................................................................................D
1,000 Terra Bella Irrigation District, First Issue, 6%, due
1945 .............................................•.....•......................... _:_ ...... D
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation District, Oroville,
1,000
Washington, 6%, due 1945................................................ D

133

Fraternal Building Certificates, Etc.,
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1.00

Total bonds .................................................•......................$416,188.61

(Donated-Payable upon death, or as redeemed)
Cert.
3 Aahmes Temple Shrine Ass'n .................@ 100 par $3.00
1 Aahmes Temple Shrine Ass'n .................@ SO par 1.00
9 Al Malaikah Auditorium Co....................... @ 100 per 1.00
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund ..................................
1.00
1 Masonic Temple Ass'n. of Sacramento..@ 100 par 1.00
1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2........@ 20 par 1.00

16.00

Receivers Certificate on U. S. National Bank-(Net' value 86-19)

1.00

Insurance Policies:
$SOO.OO policy, New York Life Insurance C-0., (Clifford W.
Richter) (Premium paid by insured) .................................. _

1.00

"D" indicates bonds received by donation.
Stocks: (All donated, acquired prior to July 31, 1935).
Shares

50.00
Altadena Masonic Temple Building Ass'n., Ltd................ .
American Telephone and Telegraph Co ............................. 1,066.00
10
480.00
Calamba Sugar Estate ..............................................................
24
207.00
9 ·California Packing Corporation ........................................ - ....
720.00
Central Indiana Power Co., Preferred ................................
10
82S.OO
Central Public Service Co., Preferred ..................................
15
4SO.OO
5 Central & Southwestern Utilities Co., Preferred ............... .
25.00
Colma Land Compan,y ........................................................... .
25
200.00
Crocker First National Bank of S:rn Francisco ................. .
2
s20.on
Crown Williamette Paper Co., First Preferred ..................
10
1.00
5 Eastern Public Servii:e Corp., Class A Common ............... .
160.00
5 Galland Mercantile Laundry Co...... o..................................... .
Guggenheim & Co., First Preferred ................................... . 1,312.00
16
S00.00
Hawaiian Sugar Co.................................................................... .
2S
2,329}:$ Masonic Temple Ass'n. of Caliiornia, Inc........................ . 23,292.50
431.2S
Oklahoma Natural Gas Corporation, Preferred ............... .
lS
S00.00
5 Olympian Dredging Co ............................................................ .
840.00
42
On om ea Sugar Co.............. ·-····················································
7,614.00
Pacific ·Gas & Electric Co., 6% Preferred ............:...............
316
so Pacific Gas & Electric Co., SY,% Preferred ........................ l,OS0.00
l,S08.00
Pacific Lighting Corporation ..............................................- ..
29
1.00
Peoples' Light and Power Corporation, Preferred...·-····
10
S60.00
Hawaiian Pineapple Co., Limited ................................ ·-······
28
2.00
Schulte United Sc to $1.00 Stores, Inc., Preferred .........-.
10
s Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corp., Preferred .......................... S00.00
1.00
Splitdorf Bethlehem Electrical Co.........................................
10
1.00
Standard Public ServiCe Co., Preferred ................................
14
1,S00.00
Staley, A. E., Manufacturing C-0., Preferred ........................
lS
1.00
1 Sun Drug Co., The, Preferred .............•·········-······················
100.00
1 Taft Masonic Temple Association ..........................................
220.00
Telephone Investment Corporation.............. - .....................
11
1.00
2 United Stores Corporation ...... ;...................... ,........................ .,.
1.00
Universal Chain Theaters Corporation................................
10
1,000.00
10 Visalia Building & Loan Association ....................................
644.00
7 West Ohio Gas Co., Preferred................................................... .

5

Notes:
Masonic Homes of California, note, S% ............................................ 150,000.00
Additions to Fund 193S-1936:
Ronds Purchased:
Book Value
$40,000 Chicago Sanitary District, Refunding Bonds Series "B"
4%, due 19S2-55 ................................................................$ 42,698.45
2S,OOO Detroit, City of, Refunding Bonds, 3~% due 1962.......... 25,611.28
20,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District, 4~% due 1967 22,636.SO
47,800 Home Owners' Loan Corporation, 3%, due 1952.............. 47,768.63
20,000 New York, City of, Rapid Transit bonds, 4 and 4}:$%,
due 1980-81.......................................................................... 21,S12.SO
20,000 New York, City Corp. Stock, Water supply bonds,
3Y,%, due 1976.................................................................... 20,900.00
10,000 New York, Port Authority The, 3~%, due 1965.............. 10,SS3.23
10,000 State of California, State Highway-Constitutional
Amendment of 1920 Bonds, due 19SS, 4}:$% ... ~........ 11,47S.OO
2S,OOO Seattle, City of, Light and Power, 3Y,%, due 19S2-S3.... 24,937.SO

Total ....................................................................................................$228,093.09
Stock Pwrchased:
SO Sh. Brooklyn Manhattan Transit Co.....................................................

2,386.0S

Received by Donation.s
20 Sh. Colma Land Association-F. G. Kenne ........................ 1.00
Arlington Lot-County of San Diego ........................ 90.00
Lot No. 262, County of Los Angeles ................ SS.00
Mutual Life Insurance policy $2SO.OO (Charles
H. Ruch) .......................................................... 1.00

147.00

Total additions 193S-36....................................................$230,626.14
Total ································--·-·····························'··········-··$857,204. 19
Deduct: Reserve for Bond Premium Amortized ...•...•..........~.........
1,782.68

Total stocks .................................................................... 46,283.75
Grand Total Cash, Bonds, Stocks, Other Securities, etc.........................$8SS,421.Sl

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

135

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

134

Summary of Endowment Fund
Total cash (savings accounts) ..............................-·····················-···-····$ 14,087.69
Total bonds (market value $700,922.15) ···········-·······················-······· 642,499.02
Total stock *(market value $29,831.00).............................................. 48,669.80
Masonic Homes Note 5%--·········-···························-···-··-·-······· 150,000.00
Miscellaneous ·······································-················-····-·····-····-··········-···
165.00
Grand Total Cash, Bonds, Stocks, Other Securities, etc.................$855,421.51
"John and Lena Luckenbach Fund"-Refer Exhibit D ..................$ 34,200.00
*Market Value does not include Masonic Temple Ass'n of California
stock at cost of $23,292.50.

38 Internationaal Hydro Electric System..........
3 Orpheum Circuit, Inc., Preferred....................
2 Public Service Co., of Oklahoma, Preferred
49 Socony Vacuum Corporation ............................
2 Southern California Edison Co., Preferred ..
4 Standard Oil of Indiana ......................................
240 Standard Oil of California .....................•..........•.
4 Standard Gas & Electric Co.•..........·-··········-5 Tidewater Associated Oil Co., Preferred ..... .
3 United Stores Corporation ...........·-···········-·····
6 United Stores Corporation, Preferred ............
10 Universal Chain Theatres Corporation ..........
House and Lot, Desota Heights....................................

103.85
6.29
173.82
609.50
53.94
129.28
8,844.82
122.08
519.86
353.40
10.13
11.80
588.18

Total Proceeds from Redemption and Sales..............

73,740.02
$126,542.40

Note: An item of $35.52 representing sundry closing charges for collections, transfer taxes, has been deducted from the proceeds from sales
in Exhibit A.

Exhibit C
STATEMENT OF SECURITIES REDEEMED AND SOLD
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1936

Stocks and Bonds Redeemed:
$ 1,000 Northern California Power Co., 5% ................$ 1,100.00
2,000 Oroville High School District, 5%................ 2,000.00
1,075 Santa Barbara, City of, 4~%---···-···················· 1,075.00
47,300 U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan, 4~·%·············-····· 47,477.38
625 Upland, City of, Municipal Improvements, 6%......................................................
625.00
5 sh. Mercantile American Realty Co., Preferred
525.00

Stocks and Bonds, etc. Sold:

Bonds:
$ 9,000 California Gas & Electric Corp., 5% ............ 9,517.50
1,000 Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton Railroad
Co. 4~% ........................................................ 1,012.50
10,000 Glendale School District, 6%-···············-········ 11,400.00
5,000 Glendale Union High School District, 5% .... 6,037.88
500 Home Telephone & Telegraph Co., of Spo500.00
kane, 5% .......................................................~
5,000 Long Beach City High School District, 5% 5,473.87
10,000 Los Angeles County Flood Control District, 5% ..·-·····-·····································:........ 11,482.48
10,000 Los Angeles County Flood Control, 5% ........ 11,923.27
352.72
1,000 Oroville Wyandotte Irrigation District, 6%
1,000 Pecos County Water Improvement District,
643.30
6% ....................................................................

Stocks:
Shares
644.66
5 Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Preferred......
647.00
10 Broad River Power Co., Preferred ................
61 Calamba Sugar Estate, Preferred .................... 1,30-3.20
14 Central States Power & Light Corp., Pre114.94
ferred ..............................................................
20 Hawaiian Commercial' & Sugar Co..·-·-········· 1,159.75

Exhibit D
STATEMENT OF "JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND"
(A SPECIAL ENDOWMENT FUND)
JULY 31,

52,802.38

1936

Balance in Fund, August 1, 1935 (48% of $60,000.00
bequest received) ................................•.....................$28,800.00
Addition 1935-1936 (9% of $60,000.00 bequest received) .......................................................................... 5,400.00
Balance in Fund July 31, 1936...........•...•.•.••.••....•..•........

$34,200.00

Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo-California National Bank Savings A/C
#24201) ··························-············································ 1,612.13
Securities: (Purchased June and July 1936)
Cost
$15,000 New York Central Ten Year Convertible 6%, due 1944.......................•.•...... 17,067.17
9,000 Northern Pacific Railway Central lien
R. R. and Land Grant 3%, due 2047 7,290.00
100 Sh. West Penn Electric, Class A Stock...... 10,480.85

34,838.02

Total .............................................................. 36,450.15
Deduct:
Due to Endowment Fund (To be transferred)
Total (As above) ........................................

2,250.15
$34,200.00

Note: According to the terms ~f the trust declaration the income from this
fund is used for the maintenance and operation of the Masonic
Homes, the same as the regular Endowment Fund.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

136

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

137

Exhibit E
\

STATEMENT OF ENDOWMENT INCOME AND CAPITAL ACCO U NTS

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON RITUAL

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1936

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Income Account

Total income received from Endowment securities
(At nominal rates) .............·-···-······························

$ 29,939.56

Deduct:
Amortization of premium, recovered and restored to Endowment Fund Capital............

l,098.03

Balance of income transferred .to General Fund
-Masonic Homes (at effective rates) ............
· Interest Income from Masonic Homes Note at
5%, transferred to General Fund-Masonic
Homes ....................................................................
Total Income Transferred to General Fund ..............

28,841.47
8,645.83
37,487.30

Capital
$812,075.92
Balance Per Books, August 1, 1935 ................................
Endowment Fund Committee deposits in savings accounts after July 31, 1935, during
August, 1935, reported in 1935 annual proceedings:
Reports L :29 :30:M ...........................·-············-·· 8,736.35
11,464.05
Reports 31 :N :32 .................................................. 2,727.70

Balance Prior Proceedings, August 1, 1935 Exhibit
B-Page 465 .................................................... - ............
Add:
Profit on sale and redemption of securities:

823,539.97

Proceeds from sales, etc ....................................... 126,542.40
Less: Value as recorded on books ...................... 122,827.98
Net

3,714.42

Bequests, donations, etc.:

Cash (As per Exhibit A)-····················-········-···· 27,720.12
Securities (As recorded at book value)............
447.00
Total
Balance, July 31, 1936 · (Per Exhibit B-Summary)

28,167.12
$855,421.~1

"John and Lena Luckenbach Fund":

Balance, August 1, 1935.._................................................
Addi-tions .1935-36................................................................

28,800.00
5,400.00

Balance, July 31, 1936 (As per Exhibit D) ..............••..

34,200.00

Your Ritual Committee begs leave to submit herewith its report.
A brief statement of the history of the committee and its membership
may be of interest at the present time.
At the communication of Grand Lodge in 1910, the following resolution was adopted:
R <!solved: That the Grand Master be requested to appoint a committee of
three on Ritual, which committee shall include the Grand Lecturer. Said committee shall also be custodian of the esoteric work.
Pursuant to this resolution the first committee appointed consisted of
Past Grand Masters Edmond C. Atkinson and Edward H. Hart, and
Thomas ]. Baker, the Grand Lecturer.
In 1911 Past Grand Master Atkinson died, and after the communication of 1911, Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller was appointed to fill the
vacancy, and the committee so continued until 1917, when Past Grand
Master Hart died, and Past Grand Master William P. Fillmer was appointed in his place. The committee consisted of the same personnel from
that date until the death of Grand Lecturer Thomas J. Baker in 1933.
On the death of Brother Baker, Grand Master Gist, conceiving it to
he of material benefit to the craft, issued an edict appointing Foster G.
Dyer, inspector of the 45th District of San Francisco, as Grand Lecturer,
and three deputies, Brother Leslie E. Wood, inspector of the 22nd District
in Sacramento; Brother Chester H. Warlow, in Fresno, and Brother
Sidney K. Lehman, inspector of the 72nd District in Los Angeles, who
were to teach the ritual to inspectors only, and they in tum to the officers
of the Lodges of their respective districts, and placed the chairman of the
Ritual Committee in direct charge of the work and methods of operation
under the Grand Lecturer and the three deputies.
At the communication of Grand Lodge in 1934, it was decided to continue the plan for a year, in order to observe its efficiency, and to improve
and complete the program. At this communication it was decided to add
one more assistant, thus leaving the Grand Lecturer free to supervise the
work of his assistants in their respective districts.
At the same communication Brother Leslie E. Wood was elected
Grand Lecturer, and Brothers Oscar L. Harris, Lloyd E. Wilson, Chester
H. Warlow and Sidney K. Lehman were named assistants.
At the communication in 1935, it was decided to continue the method
for another year, and it was in operation with the same personnel until
the death of Brother Harris, whereupon Brother Gilbert C. DeForest,
inspector of the 6th District, was appointed assistant in his place.
At the first meeting of the committee it was discovered that certain
small differences existed in the different sections of the state, which were
eliminated, and now, for the first time, there is in each of the four districts
an authority on ritual who is in exact accord with the others.
The Assistant Grand Lecturers .have held numerous schools of instruction for inspectors, which has resulted in more intensive instruction of the
inspectors and consequent increase of their efficiency and assurance.
Too much cannot ·be said in praise of the zeal and unselfishness of the
Grand Lecturer and his assistants, who have given freely of their time,
effort and · service, without compepsation other than that which results
from a proper performance of a duty imposed.
Aside from the saving of the expense of a full time Grand Lecturer,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

we confidently assert that the permanent adoption of the present plan will
prove its efficiency and be of lasting benefit to the fraternity.
A part of the plan is to have the Ritual Committee consist of the Grand
Lecturer and his four assistants, as they will be active in the work, in
constant touch with each other, and thus the element of the frailty of
human memory will be reduced to a minimum.
We, the older members of this committee, will gladly yield our positions as custodians of the esoteric work to these younger men in whom
we have the utmost confidence, and to whom we recommend to you as
being well worthy of your confidence.
We therefore propose the following resolution in lieu of the one
adopted in 1910 creating the Ritual Committee, and recommend its adoption:
Resolved: That the Ritual Committee shall consist of five members, as
follows: The Grand Lecturer and four Assistant Grand Lecturers, who
shall be appointed by the Grand Master, each of whom shall, before entering upon his duties, produce a certificate from the Grand Lecturer that he
is proficient in the work and lectures adopted ·by the Grand Lodge and is
qualified to act as Assistant Grand Lecturer. The committee as so composed from time to time shall be custodian of the esoteric work.
DANA R. WELLER,
WILLIAM P. FILMER,
LESLIE E.

·

w OOD,

Committee.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL
OBSERVANCE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Another Public Schools Week has come and gone since the last previous Communication of Grand Lodge. It was another Public Schools
Week, but not just another of those weeks which the American people are
periodically called upon to observe. And we thus commence this report because that was an ever recurrent thought expressed in the editorial comment on our latest observance, and of which the following is typical:
"Public Schools Week which is being observed 1n.... __.................._....,
and throughout the state generally, is more than just another week for
someone to observe. It is a week that concerns the future of mankind.
If ever the eternal problems are solved it will be because our schools
have made better men of future generations than we, ourselves, have
been."
"Special weeks for special interests have grown to be more or less
of a joke. However there are some special weeks we are called upon to
observe which are not only of real importance, but of the greatest importance. One of these is Public Schools Week."
"During the last few years, the fifty-two weeks of the year have
been taken over by all manner of organizations, both public and private,
until there aren't enough of them to go around. But Public Schools
Week in California rolls around each year and steals the show. And
this is as it should be. Any movement to interest the public in the administration of something it is financing is commendable."

139

"Weeks are set apart to various institutions for publicity purposes.
Some of them are well worth while. None of them is more so, nor
more significant, than that which directs the attention of our people
to our public schools.''
The real significance of our observance was admirably pointed out by
Dr. Lewis P. Crutcher, the President of the California State Board of Education in an article written by him for "California Schools" and in which
he said :
"Public Schools Week which was inaugurated by a great fraternal
body has a very definite significance in this time of travail; for it draws
the layman into a more intimate relationship with that great institution
which stands second to none as an exemplification of fundamental democracy which should ever be interpreted in the term 'equal rights to
all with special privileges to none'."
Ours is a lay movement; and therein lies its great value. One of its
primary purposes was the development and maintenance of that intimate
relationship between the public and its schools to which Dr. Crutcher refers; another was to afford an opportunity to the patrons of the schools to
obtain the information they should have of them. And that both these purposes are being effectuated was never more apparent than it was this year.
As has been repeatedly pointed out, it has become literally impossible
in recent years to convey to Grand Lodge, in a report of this character,
anything even remotely approaching a comprehensive idea of the extent
and character of the annual observance of Public Schools Week. To even
indicate, and inadequately, the public interest, the assistance rendered by
the newspapers and the broadcasting stations, the cooperation of civic and
other fraternal organizations, the efforts put forth by the school people, the
nature of the programs presented, and last, but far from least, the loyalty,
ze:il and intelligence with which the Masters and Wardens of our Lodges
engage in this activity of Grand Lodge would necessitate our exceeding the
limitations by which we are bound. And to make special reference to every
local observance well worthy of it would require as many words as are
used in the entire volume of the Annual Proceedings of Grand Lodge.
The marvelous success attending our latest observance is of course
known to the members of Grand Lodge who so materially contributed to
it. Most, if not all, of them have not only personal knowledge of the happenings in their own communities, but through the newspapers and over
the radio learned of the way in which the Week was being observed
throughout the state generally. There are, however, each year, certain
particulars with respect to the observance in general which can be known
only to those who have had an opportunity of reading the reports which
come to our committee and who have the contact our committee has with
not only every lodge in the jurisdiction, but as well also with the cooperating agencies. It is to some of these matters we purpose calling attention
in this report.
There were two noteworthy features of our Seven1:eenth Annual Observance. One was the extent to which the civic organizations in the community were represented on the committee of arrangements and the other
was the impetus in the development of the trend noted last year toward
providing programs that will convey to the public ·d efinite information with
respect to their schools rather than merely provide entertainment.
The following excerpts from a report made by a committee of arrangements are indicative of what appeared in reports from many of our
lodges:

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
"Your committee furt~er feels that the schools have been properly
interpreted to the community at large and that much good will redound
to the schools at large because of the efforts which were put forth to
acquaint the people with their schools and become more interested in
them .....
"The outstanding accomplishment, however was the increased interest in t'he schools manifested by the variou's organizations whose
representatives worked on the enlarged committee this year for the
proper observance of Public Schools Week. The representatives of
these organizations have carried back to their respective groups much
information about our schools which will be very helpful to our school
system."
. As we have said, the quoted excerpts indicate a situation which prevailed throughout the state generally to a greater or less degree. But in the
particular city from which came that report the cooperation secured from
the organized units of the community was literally amazing. The report
names each organization invited to participate and then proceeds as follows:
"Of the above ninety-four organizations to which invitations were
extended ninety-one sent representatives to attend the meeting held
under date of April 13. These representatives were made members ~f the enlarged Public Schools Week committee. The enlarged
committee then proceeded to work out a program which would permit
a proper observance of Public Schools Week. In enlarging our Blue
Lodge committee we endeavored to carry out the thought of Grand
Lodge and make Public Schools Week a community affair rather than
a Masonic event. We are very happy to report that we accomplished
the objective above set forth ."
In passing it may be said that not only did those in charge of that observance "carry out the thought of Grand Lodge" in making it a community affair, but it appears that they likewise availed themselves of some
of the suggestions contained in the excerpts from the Superintendents'
Bulletins included in a circular letter sent out by our committee. There is
to us a peculiar significance in this; and for this reason: The Chairman of
the Co~mittee is a man of wide experience and special knowledge. So successful m the past have peen observances arranged and carried out under
his direction that he might well feel that he needed no suggestions from
any sour-ce. But that he was not averse to adopting ideas which he did not
originate evidences his peculiar fitness and, in part at least accounts for
the success of Public Schools Week in that community.
'
In the very early days of our movement and when success was trembling in the balance, nhere was hazarded the assertion that there was no
city, town nor hamlet in the State of California having a public school and
a Masonic lodge in which a successful observance of Public Schools Week
could not be held; and that success was dependent solely on the zeal interest and intelligence with which the arrangements were made and ca;ried
out. Succeeding years furnished evidence of the truth of that statement. And
even now when there is no longer failure to be apprehended but only the
degree of success, the determinative factor is, as it always has been and
probably always will be "The man behind the gun."
A rather striking illustration of this was furnished this year in comparison of the reports from two neighboring lodges. They are about the
same size .a nd are located not only in the same general section of the state,
but in the same county and within twenty-five miles of each other.
'The Master of one of these lodges reported that the success of the
meeting arranged by him "was not as much as usual" ; and the reason given

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

141

by him Was that it was in part due to the fact that it was the fishing season
and "in part due to lack of endeavor to obtain greater publicity and outside
cooperatiorl,,"
The Ma,ter of the other of these two lodges reported not one meeting
but five. In addition to the observance he had arranged in the community
in which his lodge is located (and where there were two meetings held)
he had likewise arranged for an observance in each of three neighboring
towns. That the programs were as interesting and enjoyable as they appear
to have been was due to the fact, disclosed by the Master's letter, that by
starting preparations early he was "able to obtain the services of some
very prominent and capable speakers." But to us the significant thing is
that the Master went to the trouble of making four typewritten copies of the
printed questionnaire sent him in order that he might make a special report
on each of the meetings. And in addition to this he wrote a supplementary
letter covering the complete observance. It isn't strange that he was able
to say in concluding his letter "I feel that on the whole we had a most successful observance of the week-one of the best, perhaps that we have ever
had."
In passing it may be said that it appears from the reports received by
our Committee that this was not the only lodge which arranged for an
observance in a community other than that where it is located. And too
much commendation can not be given those Masters who with the cooperation of their County Superintendent of Schools arranged a meeting, or
school visits, in a district where otherwise there would have been no observance of Public Schools Week.
It may be well to here digress to say something in general with respect
to reports from our lodges. Much of it will be but a repetition of what from
time to time has been said in the reports made to Grand Lodge by our
Committee. We believe, however, that this repetition is necessary because
of the fact that each year there is a .different group of Masters and Wardens,
many of whom have no knowledge of any report made by our Committee
other than that presented at the Communication at which they are in attendance; and some of whom, we regret to say, do not apparently appreciate the value of the reports they are expected to make of the observances
for which they are responsible.
Our comment on these reports will also furnish an explanation, not,
we think, generally understood, of this factor in the "mechanics" of Public
Schools Week in so far as it is fostered and guided by Grand Lodge; and
in this connection we think we can, as Masons, s,ay with becoming modesty
that although what was in its origin a Masonic event has become a community affair, nevertheless the growth, development and success of the
movement are undoubtedly due to the fact that it is a highly organized
activity of Grand Lodge, and that it is through our Masonic lodges that the
cooperating agencies are ~oordinated.
As is of course known, each year there is sent to the Master of every
lodge in the jurisdiction a form on which his report is to be made, and which
contains a series of questions he is expected to answer'. This is not mailed
until a few days before the date set for the beginning of the observance.
This reduces the likelihood of its being lost or mislaid and it is at hand
when required for use. It is expected; or hoped, that it will receive the
Master's attention immediately after the close of the observance for which
he is responsible; and it is likewise expected that there will be attached to
this form pages of the same size on which will be pasted the newspaper
clippings showing the publicity received. With the .form there is sent an
addressed envelope in which the report is to be returned.
The request for a report from the Lodge comes from the· Grand Master;
and of course it is not deliberately disobeyed nor ignored. But it occasion-

142

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ally happens that the type of report furnished by a Master would seem to
indicate little more than a perfunctory compliance with the Gral)d Master's
request.
On the othe~ hand, there come from some Masters, and promptly, (or
from the Committee of Arrangement, through the Master) reports which
mig~t well serve ~s model~ both as to .form and substance. Nbt only is there
furn~shed ~II the. mformat10n called for by the questionnai,te, but there are
details which evidence the care and attention in the pre~ration of the report which were probably also given to the arrangement i>r the observance.
!he news?aper. clippings are neatly pasted on sheets of paper (and in some
mstances identified by the name of the paper and date of publication typed
above or at the side of the clipping) and there is also in addition to the details of the reports a summary in narrative .form. Indeed from some communities there come reports with such detail as would enable one to visualize the entire observance from the appointment of the Committee through
all the arrangements to its close.
We are . not unmindful of the fact that it sometimes happens that a
Master is so situated that it is difficult, if not impossible for him to make
his report in the form we, and undoubtedly he also, would like to have it.
But there would appear to be no good reason why the form sent out for the
purpose should not be promptly returned with every question answered;
and there can be no doubt that most failures are due to simple carelessness.
We believe that if the value of these reports were fully realized, a special
effort would be made by those from whom they are expected to forward
them as promptly, and with as much detail, as possible.
:
. Although our Committee n;iaintains contact with City and County Supermtendents of Schools and with the State Department of Education and
also with the parent bodies of the organizations which cooperate in the
observance of Public Schools Week, it is largely through the reports trom
the lodges that information is obtained with respect to the details of the
local observances. It is from these reports also that there· come the suggestions which emanate from our committee. But in some instances they serve
a still more valuable purpose.
Every lodg.e has a file of its own in our records. If we find, as we occasionally do, that some particular observance has not been as successful
in every particular as we believe it should have been, the report from that
commu~ity is carefully analyzed. And if we find, as we usually do, that the
suggestions made by our Committee have not been followed we immediately write the Master of the Lodge while the matter is still fresh in
his mind; not, as we are careful to explain, by way of criticism of anything
done or left undone, but solely with the desire of being helpful and with
the hope that any mistake which possibly may have been made will be
thereafter avoided; and we always ask that our letter be handed to the one
who will be in charge of the observance the next year. And it is gratifying
to be able to report that we have evidence of the fact that this has proved
well worth while.
There were received this year three reports, each of which might in
itself constitute a "handbook" for the proper observance of Public Schools
Week. Every detail of organization was set forth with copies of letters, instructions to subcommittees, bulletins from the Superintendent of Schools
to the Principals with instructions to be by them given to their teachers,
reports giving the number of visitors to each school, details of the programs
and pages and pages of newspaper clippings-all bound in an attractive
cover and carefully indexed.
Mention has been made of the nature of the programs notable this
year as designed to convey information rather than to merely furnish enter-

143

tainment.' There were several manifestations of this both in the type of observance a d in the details of the particular program.
In the rst place not only was there a continuance of the trend toward
making visit to the schools the dominant feature of the observance in
many commu ities, but the care and detail with which the arrangements
for these visits "'ere made evidence the belief in their importance and value.
The arrangements of course varied in different communities; but there was
always apparent ',the one common purpose to have the visitors see and
understand the actual work being done in their schools.
In a large number of instances instead of having special programs presented for them, the visitors saw the pupils engaged in their regular tasks.
The situation which it would appear very generally prevailed is aptly described in the following quotation from a magnificent report received by
our Committee. It appears in the comments of a representative of the Committee's on the observance in a particular school.
"School Week was planned to present a week as ordinary and
everyday as any other normal week in the school year. The Committee
was offered complete cooperation in any program it desired to have
staged; but all arrangements were left entirely to the Principal who as
a result of observances of former weeks desired that all special activity
such as entertainment or specially prepared programs be entirely eliminated in order that parents might observe the exact status of the work
being done whether good or poor."
The arrangements for these visits varied not only in the different school
systems but sometimes even in the same system if in a large city. In some
instances, it would appear from the reports, the visitors were expected to
simply "look and listen"; in some they were encouraged to ask questions
which were answered by either the teacher or, at her request, by some pupil;
and in others printed or multigraphed matter was distributed with information concerning the schools, and sometimes the particular class in which
the visitor happened to be, and in such form as might elicit questions.
We wish we felt warranted in here setting forth at length some at
least of the multigraphed sheets attached to one of the reports received by
our Committee. But all that we may do is to make brief reference to them
with the hope that it may provoke inquiry which will be otherwise answered.
They are in the form of notices addressed to the visitor to whom one was
handed as he entered the classroom. After extending a greeting and announcing the class (with the name of the teacher) and the period, there followed information explaining, among other things, just what the class
was at that time doing, how it was being done, the methods used, which
part of that particular subject the pupils liked best, and which least-and
why; and then certain details under this heading: "What we should like
visitors to observe." There was also an invitation to talk with the teacher.
In connection with what is said about these visits to the schools attention should be called to the fact that in some of the school systems in
which · the observance of Public Schools Week is a factor in school administration, there are sent to the parents of the pupils, and made available to
the public, advance notices, or schedules, showing the time of various classroom activities throughout the week so that visits may be arranged in accordance with the particular interest of the visitor.
It is hardly likely that there will ever come a time when an invitation
to visit a school will be, even to the parents of pupils, as alluring as a ticket
to a movie-to say nothing of a prize fight or ball .g ame. And so it will
probably continue to be, if not necessary certainly advisable to resort to
those methods and practices which have been found effective in stimulating
an interest in these visits.

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

One attended with great success in a large city this year w the use
of slogans which, together with the official posters had been s ected in a
contest which in itself had awakened the interest ~f the pupil And there
were othe~ comn.1unities in which there were similar contests.
ese slogans
are used m various ways-as "trailers" in motion pictute houses lapel
butto~~· '.'flags:;' for literature s~nt out by the Committees Arran~ement
or as . st1c~ers or ~anners earned ·by street cars and aut obiles. Among
the prize wmners this year were two which together seem to give a fair idea
of the entire philosophy behind the observance of Pub!?' Schools Week"See the Citizens of Tomorrow in· the Making" and " ake it a Rule to
Visit a ·school."
-~ot only in vi~its to the schools, but likewise where the public meeting
constituted the mam feature of the observance there was evidenced an in'-'
ten~ion o_f making the occasion effectuate its r~al purpose. And one way in
which this w~s very cleverly done was through a modification of the original
pr?~ram devised fo.r the dissemination of information with respect to the
cns1s then confrontmg public education.
In the very early years of Public Schools Week t·he principal event of
the program of a public meeting was the address by the guest speaker.
Gradually, however, the public address ceased to be as important as it once
was. Indeed there are some communities in which no endeavor is now made
to secure a speaker outside the local school system; and nothing that might
be te~med "an address" is featured on their programs. Now there can be no
que_stio!1 that a well prepared address on a subject appropriate to the oc~as10n 1s of great value; and particularly where the speaker is an entertainmg one and has not only the knowledge of his subject he should have but
also the proper concept of his audience, and of his relationship to them' and
t? the occas10n. It was no doubt the recognition of this fact that was respon-·
~1ble for a type of program in which the formal address is popufarized and .
its value preserved. There were several variations of it; and we regret that
our reference to it must be so brief.
The speaker was in some instances, but not always, the head of the
local school system; and the primary purpose of his address was to introduce one or more subjects for discussion in a forum or by a panel.
In the forum, there were at least a few of the speakers who had been
requested .to prepare t~~mselves for the discussion; but the opportunity to
expre.ss views ~nd opm10!1s w.as not restri~ted to them, and everyone requestmg a hearing was given 1t. The quest10ns were generally prepared in
advance and f~equently. published in the newspapers. It would appear
however that m some mstances, at least, questions proposed from the
audience were likewise discussed-or at least answered. ·
The panels were of ·various sorts. Some were composed entirely of
educators; others included lay men and women; and there was at least one
composed of teacher and pupils by whom questions were discussed from
their respective points of view for the information of the parents.
One of the most interesting discussions reported was that of a panel
arranged by a Post of the American Legion as part of its contribution to
the local observance. The panel was composed of educators and laymen · and
the question discussed was "Education for Citizenship in a Democrac;."
As this report of the observance of Public Schools Week in California
is being completed, Public Schools Week in Georgia is being observed by
the Mason.ic ~odges of that jurisdiction. It was inaugurated this year by
M. W. Ab1t Nix, Grand Master, through a proclamation in which he called
upon the Masonic Lodges of Georgia to set aside and officially observe the
week commencing September 21, as "Public Schools Week.'' He also reques.ted tha~ duri!1g th~t _week every Masonic Lodge in Georgia hold a
public meetmg, either m its Lodge Hall or preferably in its community

\

\

145

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

school,
which parents and all other interested citi~ens a?d tax payers
might be ome acquainted with the need of cooperatmg with the public
.
. .
schools of eorgia.
It will l:l noted that the form of this first observance m Georgia 1s practically that w th which ours was instituted ; and from which there hav~ b.eert
evolved almo as many different types as there are separate and .d1stmct
observances th ughout the state. The basic idea of the observance 1s, ho~­
ever everywher the same : To awaken and maintain a widespread publ~c
inte;est and to h ve the people of every community know just what their
schools are doing · and how and why it is being done ; ~o insure th~t close
contact between th'\: schools and their patrons so essential to a contmuance
of the faith and confidence on which they must necessarily depend and to
offer an opportunity for the cooperation of lay men and women who hav~
implicit faith in a system of public education ~dapted t.o t~e needs and
capabilities of those who must m~ke their r~~pechv~ con~nb~t10ns, .eac? .according to his means, t<> that enhghtened c1t1zensh1p which is the JUst1f1cation for free, tax supported public schools.
1

All of which is respectfully submitted.
ROBERT A. ODELL,
JOHN B. BEMAN,
MELVIN E. BOWMAN,
FREDERICK JosEPH BRUDI,

L. E. CHENOWETH, '
A. R. CLIFTON,
Wn.L
CRAWFORD,
PERCY R. DAVIS,
DR. WALTER
GOODFELLOW,

c.

v.

F . A. HENDERSON,
J. L . HousE,
FREDERICK F. MARTIN,
JAMES T . MONTANO,
E. B. SKINNER,
CHARLES E . TEACH,

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
WALTER L. BACHRODT,
ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,

Rov W. CLOUD,
WILL CROCKET,
ELIAS E. ELLISON,
C. BUR N HA~ HERYFORD,

0. S. HUBBARD,

w.
c.

EINAR
JACOBSEN,
GEORGE
JENSEN,
WESLEY W . KERGAN,
EDWIN A. LEE,
WILLIAM G . PADEN,

w.

LEWIS
SMITH ,
VAUGHAN MACCAUGREY.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCING BUILDING
PROJECTS
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

During the year ending September 20, 1936, twen.ty-four Lodge~, or
Temple Associations, have conducted correspondence with your committee.
The committee has reviewed the following projects:
Anaheim Lodge No. 207, Anaheim, California:
.
Permission was granted for this Lodge to purchase from its funds five
shares of stock in the Anaheim Masonic Temple Association at $75.00 per
share, and also eleven shares for $81.81 per share from brethren of the
Lodge who were urgently in need of assistance.
Arcadia Lodge No. 547, Arcadia, California:
This Lodge submitted a proposal to erect a Masonic Temple in the
city of Arcadia, at a cost of approximately $9,500.00. The contemplated

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I

plan submitted for consideration of your committee for the raisi
of the
necessary funds with which to finance this project included the ormation
of a corporate body to be known as the Arcadia Masonic Te pie Association. Non-interest bearing stock was to be sold to raise $ ,000.00, the
balance of the cost was to ·be raised in the form of a loan rom a local
bank depending on the amount of stock they were able to s I.
Your committee approved this request, contingent howrier, that before
the. l~an was consumated the members of the Lodge wi I raise by subscnphon to stock the amount of $5,000.00 and have th money in the
treasury.
.
Caledonia Lodge No. 486, Bakersfield, California:
Permission was requested to purchase from Lodge funds outstanding
stock of the Caledonia Building Association from stockholders desiring to
sell. It seems that commitments were made to the original purchasers of
the stock whereby they were promised the return of their money "if and
when needed." The funds being available and a sound showing having
been made, your committee granted the permission requested without
modification.
Corinthian Lodge No. 9, Marysville, California:
Permission was requested for the expenditure of approximately
$2,000.00 from the funds of this Lodge for the purpose of renovating and
refurnishing its meeting place, now owned by the Lodge. The financial
statement submitted to your committee reflected a good financial condition, with assets in excess of $30,000.00, of which over $15,000.00 consists
of cash in banks.
Your committee granted permission without modification.
Crocker Lodge No. 454, Daly City, California:
Your committee approved a request to increase a bank loan in the sum
of $6,000.00 at SY, per cent per annum, the funds to be used in the reconstruction of the Masonic Temple in this city which was destroyed by fire.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379, Fillmore, California:
Permission was granted for this Lodge to purchase from its funds
stock in the Masonic Temple Association of Fillmore in the amount of
$2,000.00.

;.1

147

\

j

Garden Grove Lodge No. 586, Garden Grove, California:
~hi.s Lodge, having completed the purchase of a location, requested
perm1ss1on to purchase stock in its Hall Association in the amount of
$1,000.00, and upon a showing which your committee has deemed sufficient
the request was accordingly granted.
,
'
Landmark Lodge No. 253, Esparto, California :
The building in which this Lodge meets was to be sold at public
auction by the liquidator of the Bank of Yolo, and the Lodge being desirous of purchasing the property for a sum of not exceeding $3,000.00, and
a proper showing having been made, your committee granted a request
for the expenditure of Lodge funds in the amount of $750.00 and the
negotiation for a loan for the balance of the purchase price from a private
individual at 6 per cent.
Madison Lodge No. 23, Grass Valley, California:
Your committee at the last annual communication of Grand Lodge
reported. its approval of the project submitted by this Lodge, whereby a
corporation was to be formed in which the Lodge would be the owner

of all O{ the stock, the purpose being to construct a new Masonic Temple
since th~ former meeting place was destroyed by fire in 1928.
The Lodge, seeking to avoid incorporation, requested permission from
your comrl\ittee to issue its promissory notes for the purpose of financing
the constru'ttion and furnishing of their proposed new Masonic Temple.
Your co\nmittee gave this matter very careful study, and after a personal interview with the committee representing the Lodge .denied their
request for the following reasons:
The Statute~ of 1911, Chapter 572, authorizes and empowers "All unincorporated benevolent or Fraternal Societies or Associations .. . without
incorporation, to purchase, receive, own, hold, mortgage, manage and sell
all such real estate and other properties as may be necessary for its business, purposes and objects of said society . . . subject to the laws and
regulations of said Society ... and the Grand Lodge thereof."
If it is not proposed to borrow money, there would be no objection
to a Lodge taking title in its own name. If, however, it should be necessary to obtain a loan secured by a mortgage or deed of trust there might
be some complications.
Although a mortgage is specifically authorized by the statute, there
yet remains a question arising from the relationship of the Lodge to
Grand Lodge.
It is to be noted that the authority given by the statute is "subject to
the laws and regulations of said Society . . . and of the Grand Lodge
thereof." Under the "laws and regulations" of our Grand Lodge, a Lodge
has no authority to borrow money. And having in mind the control
Grand Lodge exercises over the funds of the constituent Lodges, there
would seem to be good reason for believing a Lodge would not be permitted to contract an indebtedness for the purpose of erecting a building;
because it might happen that not only would the money invested in the
building venture be lost, but there might be a deficit which could only be
met by using Lodge funds which should be preserved for the relief of
its m embers.
It is probable that as the notes matured payment could be promptly
made out of the Lodge funds. If, however, it should happen that a large
number of the notes matured at and about the same time it might not be
so easy to do this. And, if for any reason there should be a default it
would reflect very seriously on not only the Lodge, but on the fraternity
as well. There is also the possibility that every member of the Lodge may
be individually liable on such notes as is a partner.
Your committee has accordingly advised Madison Lodge, which
advice has been cheerfully adopted by said Lodge, and has also adopted
the policy that in future it would be necessary that a corporation be
formed for holding title to and managing the affairs of a building.
Moneta Lodge No. 405, Los Angeles, California:
Your committee has conducted considerable correspondence with this
Lodge which has sought permission to engage in an insurance plan for
the purpose of amortizing an indebtedness in excess of $33,000.00 now
existing.
During the present Grand Lodge communication your committee will
counsel with the representatives of this Lodge and report thereon at the
next annual communication.
Mosaic Lodge No. 218, Livermore, California:
Permission was granted this Lodge to negotiate a loan of $2,800.00 for
the purpose of purchasing the remaining outstanding shares in the Masonic
Hall Association of Livermore.

148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mountain View Lodge No. 194, Mountain View, California:
,
. ~ermission was granted this Lodge to purchase the Civic if emorial
Bmlding at _Mountain View for the sum of $18,000.00 cash, this/-;;_~pearing
to be the will of the Lodge, and it having $23,000.00 cash on ~and.
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, Palo Alto, California:
/
Your c.ommittee granted the request of this Lodge fol authority to
purch~se. nmety-five shares of stock of the Palo Alto Mi'isonic Temple
Associat10n at $20.00 per share, the funds being available from the Lodge
treasury.
Table Mountain Lodge No. 124, Oroville, California:
h You~ committee gra?t~d p~rmission for this Lodge to proceed with
t e erection of a new bmldmg m Paradise, as their present meeting place
hhas become very unsaf_e. The cost is not to exceed $5,000.00 and the Lodge
as on hand $7,000.00 m cash.
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450, Van Nuys, California:
This ~odge is the owner of two lots and has consumated a sale thereon
~or th.e price of ~,000.00 which would net the Lodge $5,200.00. The vendees
m. this transaction propose to erect a building thereon, and your committee has granted permission to this Lodge to enter into a ten-year lease
at a monthly rental of $125.00; your committee also approved the sale of
the lots.
West Gate Lodge No. 335, Los Angeles, California :
.
Your commi~tee granted the request of this Lodge to purchase from
its funds the furmture and fixtures then installed in the West Gate Masonic
Temple for. the ?u~ of $2,500.00. The financial statement submitted to
your Co.mm1ttee md1cated that sufficient funds were on hand to meet this
transact10n.
Whittier Lodge No. 323, Whittier, California :
This lodge, having surplus funds deposited in banks in the amount
of $2,360.01 and other funds in building and loan associations in the amount
of $?,887.9~, paying 4 per cent interest, and the Lodge being desirous of
puttmg _their funds to more profitable use, requested permission to purchase
~ promissory note executed by the Whittier Masonic Temple Association
m the sum of $6,000.00 bearing interest at the- rate of 7 per cent payable
quarterly. The financial st~tement reflects a net worth of $53,000.00 and
your committee granted this request without modification.
Correspon.dence was also had with Guadalupe L.o dge No. 237 of
Guadalupe; Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236 of Newman, Calif ; Highland Park
L?dge No .. 382 of Los Angeles, Calif.; Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 of San
Diego, Cahf.; South Pasadena Lodge No. 367 of South Pasadena, Calif.;
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ~f Healdsburg, Calif. ; Laguna Beach Lodge No.
672 of La~una Bea.ch, Cabf., and George Washington Lodge No. 525 of
San Francisco, Calif. No permission was granted for the expenditure of
any funds .
Your c~mmit~ee has received full cooperation from all the officers of
the L?d~es m their .effort to comply with both the spirit and letter of the
Const1tutwn govermng the investment of funds and building f M
·
Temples.
o
asomc

WM. P. FILMER,

s.

Adopted.

LEONARD
LEAVY,
HERBERT C. GOLDMAN,

Committee.

149

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report :
During the past year your Committee has continued to gather new
historical information. Considerable time also has been spent in properly
authenticating material already in our files.
From the start we have recognized that our information must be authentic. Word of mouth reports are often very interesting, but may be lacking in accuracy. There are even instances where printed word which seems
to be reliable may become open to question. An interesting case of this
kind was discovered recently.
An old book which purported to be an official copy of Grand Lodge
proceedings for the year 1856 proved to be quite different from the copy
now regularly recognized in our Grand Lodge files . It contains material
which apparently later was thought inadvisable to be preserved in print.
A deleted edition was printed to take its place. Evidently, an attempt was
made to destroy the original edition . At least one copy seems to have
escaped destruction. It is now in the ·hands of an eastern collector of old
books. We hope that it will be made available to us for a more detailed
study, so that we may determine the real significance of the omissions from
the first original record. Also, we are more hopeful that some one will discover another copy of the first record and place it at the disposal of Grand
Lodge for our archives. Thus-strange as it may seem-there are even
times when our own Grand Lodge records do not tell us all that we may
wish to know I
We deeply appreciate the efforts of Lodges to protect significant relics
and to build up historical material in their own libraries. The Masonic
Library of Southern California at Los Angeles has done a splendid job in
preserving historical material and in making it available to the membership
of that section of the state. We urge all Lodges to develop the historical
sections of existing libraries, or to establish suc:h sections and relic collections where they do not now exist.
We desire to acknowledge our indebtedness to the librarian of the
Masonic Library of Southern California, Brother T. S. Southwick for his
tireless research and the wealth of material furnished us dealing with the
Masonic and personal activities of those interesting characters who have
made up the rank and file of early southern California Masonry.
Some Lodges do not have proper facilities for the proper protection
of their historical material. In such cases your committee will welcome them
as gifts to the Grand Lodge. If preferred, they may be loaned to us for safekeeping until such time as they can be properly cared for by the subordinate Lodge. In no instance should Lodge relics or property be given or left
with private individuals, and thus be subje!:ted to loss, misuse or exploitation.
We have deviated from our usual course, and have only a minor exhibit
at this session of the Grand Lodge. Due to lack of funds most of our more
valuable material has not been put into proper condition for extra handling
without some damage. It is desirable to avoid such damage, so it was
thought better to keep it in our files and ot>her safe places of storage at
this time.
At the present time your Committee is corresponding with the Grand
Lodges of Nevada, Oregon, Arizona and the Phillipines in an endeavor to
perfect our records with respect to history of the Lodges in those jurisdic-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

15.0

tions who were originally chartered by this Grand Lodge and who severed
their relations with the California Jurisdiction _to establish their own Grand
Lodges. Up to date members of the above named states have furnished
your Committee with some interesting and informative material.
We wish again to call attention to the desirability of Lodges keeping
scrap-books containing clippings from local current publications of Masonic
affairs in the several communities and also of the lives and activities of
members of their respective Lodges.
There are many hundred veteran Masons whose fifty years of Masonic
service have entitled them to the 50-Y ear Button. We respectfully request
the officers of the Lodges to obtain the written story of the personal and
Masonic activities of these venerable Brothers and forward same to this
Committee at the earliest possible moment.
Last year your Committee addressed letters to many of the Lodges requesting information with resped to the naming of the Lodges. Many
(Lodges) thus addressed have neglected to furnish your Committee with
the information desired and we respectfully urge them to complete their
replies and forward same to the Committee.
.
During the year 1934 we presented a plan to the membership for the
publication of our history in three volumes. The plan placed no financial
responsibility on Grand Lodge. It depended on the co-operation of the
publisher and· a minimum total of 2000 voluntary subscriptions. Prevailing
conditions caused an insufficient response. The subscriptions which were
received have been refunded and that particular plan of publication has
been abandoned. All of the expense in connection with this plan was borne
by the concern who were to publish the books. Since it was definitely announced that this plan of publication had been abandoned many members
have told us that they had intended to subscribe but had overlooked the
matter at the proper time. There seems to be a general urge to go ahead
with some plan of publication. We feel that a history prepared along proper
lines will be of interest to t-he craft. However, we want this to be done at
the right time and in the proper manner, and advise further study along
these lines by proper committee.
During the past two years the Grand Lodge has appropriated no funds
for this committee. The work has been carried on by members of the committee at their own expense. They have also been ably assisted by a number of brethren who are interested in the work. We hereby express our
appreciation to them, and to the Inspectors, and subordinate Lodge offi·cers who have thus cooperated with us so unselfishly.
In addition to the general recommendations of this report, we recommend that the Grand Lodge continue a Committee on Masonic History
during the ensuing year. No financial appropriation is sought at this time.
We also recommend that the Grand Lodge continue a Committee on
Publication of Masonic History to work in cooperation with this Committee to develop the most feasible and economic means of publication at
the proper time.
LEON 0. WHITSELL,
MARK A. SA WRIE,
DAVID TULLOCK,
RoscoE L. CLARK,
CHAS. R. INGRAM,
THOMAS NORRIS,
CHAS. E. HAAS,

Com1111ittee.

Adopted.

151

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED
The following resolutions were introduced :

.

B c E Mallachowitz: That the report of the Committee on Correspo:den.ce be compiled and printed for distribution to the Lodges.
Referred to the Finance Committee.
That the term of office of the Grand Secretary be fixed at six years,
for one term only.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
That a committee be appointed to evolve ways and mea?s of negotiating with other jurisdictions relative to reimbursem_e nt for relief extended to
sojour.ners.
·
Referred to Committee .on Policy and General Purposes.
That Representatives to Grand L odge be paid actual expenses of trans·portation to and from the, place of meeting of Grand Lodge.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
That the salary of th.e Grand Secretary be fixed at $5,000 per _annum for
all services.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
.
90 163 and other sections of the Constitution relating to
That sec t ions ,
·
· ·
t 't !£"
relief, the clause "insofar· as it may do so without serious mJury o 1 se
be added.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Past Masters of Hillcrest Lodge No. 573, Fortitude Lodge No. 624,
Live Oak Lodge No. 61, and Indian Rock Lodge No. 638:
..
That Section 94 of the Constitution be so construed t~at the. dec1s10n
f the Lodge made in accordance with the provisions of said section as to
~he physical sufficiency of a candidate be allowed to stand.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Past Masters of Indian Rock Lodge No. 638, East Bay Lodge No.
.
. .
489, and H illcrest Lodge No. 573:
S
166A . N 0 Lodge or individual Mason shall, directly or md1rectly,
.
ec.
.
.
the aid or countenance of Masonry to any raffle,
give or attemhpt tfo give f
ming Nor shall any Mason participate in the
lottery or ot er orm 0 ga
·
·
d ·
· th drawing or
distribution or sale of punch boards or si~1lar . ev1ces, or m .e
d ted
· 'b ·
of rizes thereon in connection with any enterprise con uc
~~s:~~ ~~~~ or ~irectly or indirectly for the pecuni~ry bene~t, ?f a~y Lodge
f
~ nization a prerequisite of membership wherem 1s t at a per~~nob:~\~a~r Mason. No Lodge s.hall accep_t any of the proceeds or profits of any raffle, lottery or other form of gammg.
ff! 1 tt
Whenever it shall appear to the Grand Ma~ter that an: ra ~· ~ de~y
or other form of gaming is being conduct~d, ?r 1s about to. _econ uc e 1~
th
or for the benefit of any orgamzat10n a prerequ1s1te of membehr
b
M t Mason or in the name or for t e
e name
ship wherein is ~~~~iit::s~~ s:~ord~~a~~ body thereof, he shall forth"'.'ith
~enefit of a~~ d mail to the head and to the Secretary of such or.gantzas~nd, ~y ~eg~ e!e . dictlon of the Grand Lodge (or, if there be no such head
t1~~:::~:t1:r t :ft~~ the jurisdiction, then to t~e head a.n~ . secretary of such
o
. t' Y 'th'n the United States) a notice contammg a statement of
o~gamza ion w1 1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

153

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

152

the facts which have come to his attention and stating that unless such raffle
lottery or other form of gaming is immediately abandoned and discontinued'
every Mas~n participati.n!? therein, directly or indirectly, will be suspended
from .the rights and privileges of Masonry, unless within ten days thereafter 1t shall ~ppear to the Grand Master that . such raffle, lottery or other
form of gamu~g has been .a?andoned and discontinued, he shall suspend
from. all ~he rights _an~ pnv1leges of Masonry every Mason patricipating
therein, directly or md1rectly. Each suspension, together with the reasons
therefor,. sh~ll be presented to ~rand Lodge at its next succeeding annual
communicat10n and shall remain in full force and effect unless otherwise
ordered by Grand Lodge.
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By John G. Humble, Master; W. R. Gentry, Past Master and John
E. Roberts, ~enior Ward~n, Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625: That' the Grand
Master. app01~t a comm1tte~ to inve~tiga~e .the feasibility of establishing
Masonic hospitals or Masonic wards in ex1stmg hospitals.
Referred to Committee on Policy.
By Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master Argonaut Lodge No. 461: That
no ~eme~ery or. burial _association shall use the name "Masonic" as title or
des1gnat10n of its business, e·x cept one conducted wholly by Masons and
use~ ~mly for the interment of the remains of Masons or rnembers of their
families.
Referred t.o Committee on Policy.
By Sacramento Lodge No. 20 : That whereas the five old Lodges of
Sacramento have for many years and do now maintain two cemeteries
under the name Masonic, patronized by the general public without referen~e to Maso.nic affiliation, it is resolved that we protest against any legislat10n _that will affect the use of the term Masonic in connection with the
operat10n of any cemetery.
Referred to the Committee on Policy.
_By Charles R. Cooper, Past Master Presidio Lodge No. 354: To amend
section 129 of the Constitution by eliminating therefrom all reference· to the
investment of life membership funds.
Referred to the Committee on Policy.
. By Sacramento Lodge No. 40: That the present plan of teaching the
ritual be perpetuated by appropriate amendments to the Constitution.
Referred to . the Committee on Policy and Purposes.
By the Masters and Wardens of t:he following Lodges: Chateau Thierry

N?. 569, Fortitude No. 624, Eden No. 113, Alpha No. 431, Alcatraz No. 244,

Hillcrest No. 573, Piedmont No. 521, and Oakland No. 188: That this
Grand Lodge shall energetically promote and definitely enter into activities
having for their. ~urpose th.e combating of the various influences tending
to create a cond1tton of social and economic chaos inimical to the welfare
of all people, and that this Grand Lodge call upon every Mason to oppose
t~e advocac3'. in America of all movements contrary to the democratic principles established under the Constitution of the United States of America.
Referred to Committee on Policy.
. By W!lliam .A. Sc'hre~der: To amend sections 27 and 71 of the Constiby inclu~ing therein the Committee on Clandestine Masonry as a
standing committee.
Referred to the Committee on Policy.
tutto~

By William A. Schreidcr: That the Grand Secretary be directed to
immediately cause to be registere-d with the Secretary of State the full
and proper title and designation of our Grand Lodge and its constituent
Lodges, together with its seal and the jewel of the Grand Master as the
insignia of the Grand Lodge, and to register also the square, compass and
the letter G as the insignia of the Lodges, all as provided by Chapter 409
of the Statutes of 1933 of California, for the registration of names, designations and insignia. of fraternal societies.
Referred to the Committee on Policy.
By Fred L. Somers, Past Master of Military Service Lodge No. 570,
to amend Section 129 by providing that in the event the charter of a Lodge
is revoked or surrendered any amount left in the life membership fund in
the name of any brother, such amount shall be transferred to the Lodge to
which he may affiliate.
Referred ·to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Melville Hutchinson, Master Beacon of the West Lodge No. 628,
proposing an assessment not to exceed $1.00 per member for the benefit of
the Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes.
Referred to the Committe~ on Policy and General Purposes.
Also by Melville Hutchinson: That the lectures of the first and third
degrees be omitted on the nights on which they are conferred, to be delivered on some other night to be designated by the Master at his discretion and at the convenience of the Lodge.
Referred to the Committee on Ritual.
By Roy I. LeFever, Past Master of Whittier Lodge No. 323: To amend
Section 129-A by adding thereto that a dispenser of liquor shall not be
eligible for the degrees of Masonry or for affiliation.
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Chas. R. Cooper, Past Master of Presidio Lodge No. 354: Providing that t:he Grand Master shall appoint a committee to provide a manual
governing the conduct of a Lodge at its stated meetings.
Referred to the Committee on Finance.
By Leo Bruck, Past Master of Jewel Lodge No. 374: To repeal a part
of Section 87, part 2 of the Constitution and substitute therefor that all investments of funds by a Lodge shall be through Trustees who shall invest
such funds in securities or property to the best of their judgment, with the
consent of the Lodge.
Also to repeal the second paragraph of Section 129 and substitute
therefor that the Life Membership fund be invested in first class securities
according to the best. judgment of the Trustees, with the consent of the
Lodge.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Chester H. Warlow: To amend Section 78 of the Constitution to
read as follows: "The Lodge must be opened in the place fixed by its
charter or dispensation and at the appointed Lodge room therein, except
as provided in Section 93 of this Constitution, when the Lodge may be
opened at the appointed place."
Referred to the Committee on Policy.
Also to amend Section 93 of the Constitution to read as follows: "Provided however, a special meeting of the Lodge for degree work only may

154

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

be held in the Lodge room at the Masonic Home at Decoto or the Grand
Master may grant dispensation to a Lodge to hold a speci~l meeting for
degree work at a place other than the regular meeting place of the Lodge
subject to such restriction and notice to the brethren of the Lodge as th~
Grand Master may prescribe in such dispensation. .
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By C. E. Showalter, for the Officers Association of the 104th Masonic
district: That the office of Grand Lecturer be re-establis'hed as it was during the incumbency of the late Thomas J. Baker.
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By J. E . Northamer, Senior Warden Hanford Lodge, and W. M. Hubbard, Master of Welcome Lodge No. 255 : That the necessary traveling
expenses of the Inspectors be defrayed by Grand Lodge at the rate of six
cents per mile. Referred to the Committee on Finance.

155

1Jn ®ranb JLi.lbgt
MORNING SESSION
Wednesday, October 14, 1936.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.

REPORT OF TRUSTEES U. C. BERKELEY CLUB HOUSE
At 4 :SO o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until ten o'clock
Wednesday morning.

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Club at the University of
California submits to Grand Lodge its annual report of the affairs and
condition of the . institution near the Berkeley campus. The complete report of Norman MacEachen, certified public accountant of San Francisco,
and the estimated budget for the ensuing Masonic year have been handed
to the Finance Committee of Grand Lodge for its consideration, and are
made a part of this report · as though fully set forth at this point. The
audit contains the usual "exhibits," and comprises a complete statement
and analysis of the financial transactions of the Club House Board during
the year, verified by inspection of canceled checks and properly approved
invoices covering the major items of expense. We note with pleasure the
coinment of the auditor that: "The records of the Club continue to be
well maintained."
The estimated budiet for the next year is made up closely of items
and amounts contained in the statement of disbursements for the current
year, except as to the item of depreciation and replacements. For that
item we seek a larger amount. Twelve years ago this month, following
the session of Grand Lodge, M. W. Brother Ar thur Crites, then Grand
Master, dedicated the Club House. The equipment and furnishings, then
just installed, had cost in excess of $10,000. While remarkable care has
been exercised in the use of the place, the item of depreciation and replacements has been steadily increasing for each year for several years last
past. This year's cost-$582.97, shown in the audit-is the largest. Following this summer's inspection and repairs,. the furniture people advise
that the limit has been reached. It will be a sheer waste of money to
attempt any extensive repairs in the future. It will be a case of replacements with new furniture. Since the formation of t he Board of Trustees
there has been in existence in the Board's account a "depreciation and
replacement" fund. This item has been decreased during the present year.
In order that· Grand Lodge may gradually absorb the amount needed for
the replacement of furnishings soon to come, the items in our depreciation
and replacement fund, which also take care of the cost of insurance, should
be materially added to. For that reason, we are asking for a total budget
appropriation of $8,000 at the present communication of Grand Lodge.
The proper amount of insurance, fire and general liability, is carried.

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Interest from the banks on unused balances has been received and properly accounted for.
Brethren of Grand Lodge: Nearly fifteen years ago the Masons of
California embarked upon an enterprise which may be correctly likened
to the making of a capital investment. Has the enterprise proven that it
was justified? Your Trustees unhesitatingly affirm that it has. Every
succeeding Grand Master-and each one has visited the Club House and
contacted its work-has enthusiastically subscribed to th.at view. There is
a very homely old saying that "the proof of the pudding is in the eating."
When the Masons of California were liberally subscribing for the erection
of the Club House, the plan was easily "sold" to the members of the craft
by the prophecy of the need and the human interest that the institution
would supply to the men and women, perhaps, more properly speaking,
the boys and girls, the coming men and women, attending the University
of California at Berkeley from Masonic homes. The passage of time has
told the story. Let the testimony of those for whom the house was built
confirm the prophecy. For the present let it suffice to give the testimony
of one witness, called at random from the many who would eagerly appear
to testify. We offer this evidence because it is so typical of the students
who are served, and is so recently given. A young man, on graduating from
the university last May, wrote this letter to the President of the Board:
"Dear Judge Waste:
"I am writing to express, at least in some small degre~, my appreciation for all that the Masonic Club has meant to me. I feel that I
should be guilty of the grossest ingratitude, were I to fail to do this.
"When I entered the University of California, in the fall of 1934,
I was away from home for the first time and practically without friends
until I joined the Club. It is hard, perhaps, for one who has not been
in this situation to realize just how much an organization of this type
may mean. Throughout my career at the university my social life and
my friends have been drawn almost entirely from the Masonic Club.
I shall always look upon the many friendships and associations made
and the many happy hours which I have spent in the Club House as
the bright spots of my college life.
.
"I am sure that I speak for the many members of both the Men's
and Women's Masonic Clubs, as well as for myself, when I extend my
most sincere thanks to you and, indirectly, to the Masons of California, for the wonderful things you have done for us, the Masonically
affiliated students at the university."
Can anyone doubt that that young graduate went out into the world a
better man and citizen because the Masonic Club House was near the
Berkeley campus?
Most Worshipful Grand Master and ·brethren, we submit that the
Masonic Club House at the University of California has proved its case.
Fraternally submitted,
TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC CLUB OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, INC.

By WILLIAM H. WASTE, President.

The report was adopted except the request for funds, which
was referred to the Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

157

REPORT OF DIRECTORS, U. C. LOS ANGELES
CLUB HOUSE
To the M. ', w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of the University of
California at Los Angeles fraternally submit their report for the year
ending September 30, 1936.
The year has passed without a change in the personnel of the Board
which is composed of the following brethren : Past Grand Masters: Will
H. Fischer, John Stewart Ross and Dana R. Weller. Brothers: Elmer E.
Beckman, Walter L. Berger, Thos. B. Buchan, Chas. H. Dodds, Wm. S.
McFadden, G. Ellsworth Meyer, Marco R. Newmark, Frank X. Pfaffinger,
C. H. Robison, Clyde C. Shoemaker, Ira F. Thompson and Ben G. Wright.
We were tremendously pleased with the manner in which the students
used the facilities of the Club Houstt during the season of 1934-35, but the
year just closed has surpassed any year in our history. We have had a
total of 26,650 visits by affiliated students and our study room was visited
6,000 times, a 50 per cent increase over the previous year. A total of 114
social functions was held during the year and could you but witness the
pleasure and satisfaction our young people derive from the privileges
afforded, you would agree with us that the effort is well worth the cost.
The organization · of a Masonic Club Alumni Association was completed during the past year arid will, we are sure, prove to be of great
value to both the Alumni and the Club House.
The financial condition is reflected by the report of Brother Reynold
E. Blight, certified public accountant, which is attached hereto and made
a part hereof.
With respect to the budget for the coming year, our estimate aggregates $7,974.29.
Our Club building occupies practically all of our ground space, the
east side being about two feet from the property line. There is a large
vacant lot adjoining us on the east, and as there. are no set back restrictions, we deemed it wise to protect our building by purchasing part of the
lot. In January we bought 22.8 feet, using money on hand in the Building
Fund, which was contributed by the brethren of the jurisdiction for that
purpose.
Each year sees an increase in the enrollment in the university and
likewise an even greater increase in the use of, and interest in, the Club
House. We recommend that such provision be made for support and maintenance during the year 1936-37 as will be adequate for that purpose.
IRA F. THOMPSON, Chairmati.

Adopted as read except that portion requesting funds, which
was referred to the Committee on Finance.

1S8

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name of Lodge

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:

Herewith your Committee on Returns pres'ents its annual report.
We find there is a net loss of members. The roll of membership as
of July 31, 1936, being only 127,728. We find the number suspended' for
non-payment of dues greater than the increase of membership by degrees.
But we are not as those without hope.
·
There has been an increasing number of candidates, and there has
been an increase in the number of those restored to membership. Great
as it is there has been a decrease in the numbr of those suspended for
non-pay~ent of dues, and a decrease in the number of those having their
dues remitted. The Grim Reaper takes a yearly increasing toll.
While we cannot say the report is good, it is not so bad as some of
the preceding years. We may say of it as was said of the Curate's egg, it
was good in parts. The gains are increasing, and the losses are diminishing.
Let us hope that in the desire for an increase in the number of candidates there will be no sacrifice of quality.

August 1, 1935 to July 31, 1936
Name of Lodge

1 California.................. .
2 Western Star.............
3 Tehama......···········-·····
S Benicia. .......................
8 Tuolumne................... ·
9 Corinthian ...................
10 SanJose......................
12 Yount..........·-····-·····-·
13 Nevada. .. ·-················14 Temple....·-···--···········
16 Eureka...................... _ ·
17 La Parfaite Union ... .
18 Mountain Shade....... .
19 San Joaquin ................
20 Washington ............... .
21 Hawaiian ....................
22 Occidental... ................
23 Madison......................
24 Mariposa............-...... .
2S Georgetown................
26 El Dorado... ·····-······27 Trinity_················-·····
30 Golden Gate... ·-··········
32 Gold Hill... .....-··-·······
33 Ophir ......................- ...
3S San Diego...................
37 Howard ......... ·····--····
38 Santa Cruz..... ·-·········
40 Sacramento................
41 Martinez..........·-····-··

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$313.50

$25.00
Home Tax

$43S.75
7S.75
330.7S
ll6.2S
146.2S
209.25
318.00
181.SO
100.50
80.25
141.7S
109.50
26.2S
413.2S
376.SO
249.00
S82.00
126.00
l 10.2S
36.00
123.7S
63.75
S26.50
74.2S
28.SO
417.75
140.2S
221.2S
391.50
lS0.00

$290.50

$22S.OO

220.SO
77.SO
97.50
139.50
212.00
121.00
67.00
S3.50
94.SO
73.00
17.SO
27S.SO
2Sl.OO
166.00
388.00
84.00
73.SO
24.00
82.SO
42.SO
351.00
49.SO
19.00
278.SO
93.50
147.SO
261.00
100.00

12S.OO
100.00
50.00
100.00
12S.OO
175.00
100.00
2S.OO
7S.OO
50.00
S0.00
22S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
32S.OO
2SO.OO
lS0.00
2S.OO
12S.OO
125.00
150.00
S0.00

so.so

23S.50
89.SO
106.SO
145.SO
231.00
139.00
82.00
58.SO
100.SO
79.00
26.SO
302.SO
267.00
171.00
421.00
107.00
87.SO
29.00
92.50
S5.50
369.00
S5.50
23.00
316.50
94.50
170.SO
297.00
116.00

so.so

3SO.OO
25.00
2SO.OO
300.00
150.00

Total

$1,264.7S
176.7S
91 l.7S
383.2S
400.2S
594.2S
886.00
616.SO
349.SO
217.2S
411.7S
311.SO
120.2S
l,216.2S
994.SO
661.00
1,716.00
567.00
421.2S
114.00
423.7S
286.7S
1,396.SO
229.2S
70.SO
l,362.7S
353.2S
789.2S
1,249.SO
S16.00

42 Los Angeles ................
43 Hiram .........................:
44 Mount Moriah.......... .
4S Crescent City............ .
46 Texas.........•.·-·············
SO Forbestown. .............. .
Sl Illinoistown.................
SS Suisun........................ _
S6 Volcano.......................
S7 Santa Rosa .................
S8 Union...........................
S9 Gravel Range .............
60 Plumas ........................
61 Live Oak. ....................
64 Natoma...................... .
6S Amador .......................
66 Forest.......·--····-····-··
68 Morning Star............ .
70 Enterprise...................
76 Bear Mountain.......... .
78 Calaveras....................
79 Humboldt .................. _
80 lone-·····················-·····
81 Yolo-...........................
84 Vesper···-····················
87 Naval..........................•
89 Rose's Bar ...................
91 North Star..................
93 St. Helena.... ·-············
9S Henry Clay................ .
98 Hornitos......................
99 Yosemite.....................
101 Clay..•.·-····-·········-·····
103 Oroville................ -.....
104 .Lexington...................
106 Arcata. ... ·-····-········· ..•·
110 Pajaro........................ .
111 Chico......................·-···
112 Sununit.. ..................... .
113 Eden......•......................
117 Concord ......... ·-···········
120 Fidelity ........................
122 Alamo..........................
123 Sotoyome....._............ .
124 Table Mountain........ .
126 Lafayette..................._
127 Hermann.................... .
128 Visalia................ -.......
129 Nicolaus............ --······
131 Woodbridge............... .
132 Sincerity..................... .
134 Vacaville.................... .
13S Valley..........................
136 Pacific..........................

1S9

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

3S6.00
28.SO
219.SO
82.00
2S.SO
30.00
3S.SO
74.SO
21.00
202.SO
287.00
2S.SO
49.SO
493.00
67.00
38.00
2S.SO
219.00
118.SO
40.00
4S.SO
187.SO
3S.OO
29.00
94.SO
344.SO
18.SO
26.00
48.SO
28.SO
49.00
126.00
32.00
131.00
97.00
.96.SO
122.00
177.00
18.00
103.00
119.00
283.SO
76.00
81.00
S2.SO
9S.OO
114.SO
161.SO
49.00
67.00
44.00
90.00
33.SO
337.00

492.00
30.7S
314.2S
99.00
33.7S
39.00
Sl.7S
102.7S
22.SO
273.7S
390.00
23.2S
71.2S
682.SO
88.SO
Sl.00
3S.2S
289.SO
162.7S
SS.SO
63.7S
263.2S
Sl.00
43.SO
12S.2S
437.2S
27.7S
34.SO
S7.7S
39.7S
63.00
169.SO
43.50
180.00
118.SO
140.2S
172.SO
234.00
27.00
lS0.00
178.50
419.2S
100.SO
117.00
63.7S
133.SO
162.7S
216.7S
61.50
78.00
66.00
112.SO
S0.2S
486.00

328.00
20.SO
209.SO
66.00
22.SO
26.00
34.50
68.SO
15.00
182.SO
260.00
15.SO
47.SO
45S.OO
S9.00
34.00
23.SO
193.00
108.SO
37.00
42.SO
175.SO
34.00
29.00
83.SO
291.SO
18.SO
23.00
38.SO
26.SO
42.00
113.00
29.00
120.00
79.00
93.SO
115.00
156.00
18.00
100.00
119.00
279.SO
67.00
78.00
42.SO
89.00
108.SO
144.SO
41.00
S2.00
44.00
7S.OO
33.SO
324.00

27S.OO
100.00
100.00
lS0.00
25.00
S0.00
25.00
S0.00
100.00
125.00
2SO.OO
100.00
32S.OO
75.00
2S.OO
17S.OO
100.00
25.00
ZS.00
12S.OO
75.00
S00.00
50.00
100.00
25.00
7S.OO
7S.OO
25.00
100.00
17S.OO
25.00
lS0.00
175.00
2S.OO
S0.00
100.00
25.00
100.00
S0.00
S0.00
7S.OO
75.00
12S.OO
12S.OO
150.00

Total

1,4Sl.OO
179.7S
843.2S
397.00
106.75
14S.OO
146.7S
29S.7S
1S8.SO
783.75
1,187.00
164.25
168.2S
l,9SS.SO
289.50
148.00
84.25
876.SO
489.7S
1S7.50
176.7S
7Sl.2S
120.00
101.SO
378.2S
1,S73.2S
64.7S
133.50
244.7S
119.7S
229.00
483.SO
129.50
S31.00
469.SO
3S5.25
SS9.SO
742.00
63.00
378.00
416.50
l,032.2S
343.50
301.00
2S8.7S
367.50
43S.7S
S97.75
226.SO
322.00
1S4.00
402.50
117.2S
1,297.00

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name of Lodge

139 Crockett.... __________ ;__ ....
140 Curtis ......................--.
141 • Grafton........................
143 Franklin......................
144 Oriental.......................
14S Vitruvius.....................
146 AbelL............... _.........
147 Eel River.....................
149 Lassen..........................
lSO Molino.........................
1S6 Woodland....................
161 Keystone......................
164 Harmony.....................
166 Excelsior.....................
167 Alameda......................
168 Redwood City.............
169 Mission........................
173 Elk Grove....................
174 Drytown......................
17S Antioch........................
178 Phoenix.......................
179 Mendocino..................
180 Petaluma.....................
181 Russian River.............
182 Arbuckle......................
183 Clear Lake................ _
184 Sierra Valley...........-.
18S Claiborne.....................
186 Evening Star..............
187 Keith...·--·····················
188 Oakland.......................
190 Northern Light..........
191 Marin...........................
192 Santa Barbara............
193 Ferndale......................
194 Mt. View.....................
19S Buckeye.......................
196 San Simeon.................
198 Wilmington................
199 Hartley......................200 Truckee.......................
201 S ilveyville...................
202 Pentalpha....................
203 Confidence..................
204 Salinas...................·-···
20S Olivet...........................
206 Stanislaus....................
207 Anaheim....................•.
208 Rio Vista...·-····-·······"
209 King Davids...·-······-·
210 Friendship...................
211 San Benito..................
212 So. San Francisco......
214 San Buenaventura....

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

321.SO
37.SO
4S.OO
51.00
218.SO
S2.00
80.00
89.00
88.SO
64.00
133.00
13.00
7.SO
289.00
7S.OO
142.50
361.SO
S8.00
17.00
71.00
246.00
70.00
143.SO
S7.SO
38.SO
21.00
23.00
26.SO
24.SO
7S.OO
421.SO
3S.OO
234.SO
118.SO
76.00
100.00
49.SO
S6.SO
1S3.00
99.00

473.2S
48.7S
48.00
66.00
320.2S
70.50
114.00
126.00
122.ZS
87.00
178.SO
19.SO
11.25
387.00
97.SO
192.7S
S22.7S
78.00
21.00
102.00
313.SO
96.00
198.75 .
78.7S
SO.ZS
27.00
27.00
39.75
32.2S
109.SO
S93.2S
S2.SO
321.75
156.75
105.00
141.00
74.2S
71.2S
202.SO
124.50
7S.75
98.ZS
437.25
20.ZS
198.00
75.00
240.75
204.00
66.00
214.SO
387.7S
102.00
183.00
179.25

31S.SO
32.SO
32.00
44.00
213.50
47.00
76.00
84.00
81.SO
. S8.00
119.00 .
13.00
7.SO
2S8.00
6S.OO
128.SO
348.SO
S2.00
14.00
68.00
209.00
64.00
132.SO
S2.SO
33.SO
18.00
18.00 ..
26.SO
21.50
73.00.
395..SO
3S.OO .
214.SO
104.SO
70.00
94.00
49.SO
47.SO
135.00
83.00

2S.OO
2S.OO
150.00
S0.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
50.00
7S.OO
S0.00
12S.OO

so.so

80.SO
313.SO
16.SO
143.00
S8.00
183.SO
lSl.00
69.00
161.00
293.SO
74.00
122.00
1S7.SO

so.so

6S.SO
291.50
13.SO
132.00
50.00
160.SO
136.00
44.00
143.00
2S8.SO
68.00
122.00
119.SO

161

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

32S.OO
7S.OO
12S.OO
175.00
S0.00
S0.00
2S.OO
300.00
S0.00
125.00
2S.oo
S0.00
2S.OO
S0.00
2S.OO
S0.00
2SO.OO
22S.OO
12S.OO
50.00
S0.00
2S.OO
12S.OO
225.00
125.00
12S.OO
200.00
S0.00
200.00
100.00
200.00
lS0.00
200.00
17S.OO
300.00
S0.00
32S.OO

Total

1,13S.2S
143.7S
27S.OO
211.00
777.2S
194.SO
29S.OO
349.00
367.2S
2S9.00
SSS.SO
4S.SO
26.25
1,259.00
312.SO
S88.7S
l ,407.7S
238.00
102.00
266.00
1,068.SO
280.00
S99.7S
213.7S
172.2S
91.00
118.00
92.75
103.2S
307.SO
1,660.2S
122.SO
995.7S
S04.7S
301.00
38S.OO
198.2S
300.ZS
715.50
431.50
176.7S
369.2S
1,242.2S
100.2S
673.00
283.00
784.7S
641.00
379.00
693.SO
1,239.7S
294.00
427.00
781.25

Name or Lodge

215 ·Oak Grove..................
216 Doric.......................•....
217 Monterey.....................
218 Mosaic..:.......................
219 Speranza ltaliana......
220 Downey.....- --··············
221 <Inyo.........•...- ...........~ ..
222 Roseville......................
224 Bakersfield.................. ·
22S Brooklyn.....................
226 San Mateo...................
228 Athens.....-.............:....
229 Solano..........................
230 North Butte...........:....
231 Covelo..........................
232 Janesville.....................
233 Calistoga.....................
234 Hope.......,....,...............
23S Surprise Valley..........
236 Hills Ferry.................
237 Guadalupe.............•.....
240 Colusa..........................
241 Santa Ana...................
242 Magnolia...............•.....
243 Eucalyptus..................
244 Alcatraz......................
24S Laurel..........................
246 Pomona.......................
247 Fresno........................•
248 Alturas....................__
2SO Adin...·-·······················
2S3 Landmark...................
2S4 Reading-.....................
2SS Welcome.....................
2S6 Lodi..............................
2S3 Penrhyn....•.................
2S9 Evergreen...................
260 King Solomons ..........
261 Tuscan......:.............--262 Lompoc..................•.....
264 Hesperian....................
26S Orland........---···········
266 North East..................
267 Galt..........................._.
268 Durant. ........................
269 Olive Branch..............
271 Snow Mountain.........
272 Pasadena.....................
273 Anchor......................._
274 Arroyo....................__
27S Oakdale.......................
277 Selma.............•.............
278 So. California.............
279 Hanford......,...............

General
Fund

Home
l\talntenaoce

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

306.SO
27S.OO
68.SO
74.SO
199.SO
94.00
3S.SO
154.SO
242.SO
298.SO
117.SO
S2.00
236.SO
63.00
3S.OO
44.00
34.SO .
33.SO
38.SO
49.00
34.00
81.SO
2S3.SO
12S.OO
112.SO
2S9.SO
71.SO
164.SO
292.00
81.SO
44.SO
S0.00
98.00
S4.SO
147.00
S4.00
256.00
3S9.SO
47.00
71.00
112.SO
68.SO
34.SO
32.SO
314.SO
110.00
21.00
2SS.SO
123.00
S3.SO
80.00
88.SO
290.00
80.SO

423.7S
3S7.00
96.7S
90.7S
276.7S
13S.OO
S0.2S
191.2S
312.7S
417.7S
171.7S
76.SO
294.7S
7S.OO
33.00
S2.SO
Sl.7S
48.7S
S4.7S
67.SO
42.00
114.7S
324.7S
1S7.SO
1S2.2S
371.2S
10S.7S
222.7S
397.SO
10S.7S
39.7S
67.SO
133.SO
7S.7S
204.00
76.SO
343.SO
S22.7S
63.00
88.SO
1S8.2S
83.2S
38.2S
4S.7S
449.ZS
132.00
22.SO
374.25
178.SO
62.2S
8S.SO
114.75
394.SO
98.2S

282.SO
238.00
64.SO
60.SO
184.SO
90.00
33.SO
127.SO
208.SO
278.SO
114.SO
Sl.00
196.SO
S0.00
22.00
3S.OO
34.SO
32.SO
36.SO
4S.OO
28.00
76.SO
216.SO
lOS.00
101.SO
247.50
70.SO
148.SO
26S.OO
70.SO
26.SO
4S.OO
89.00

17S.OO
300.00
2S.OO
12S.OO
12S.OO
S0.00
2S.OO
22S.OO
32S.OO
22S.OO

so.so

136.00
Sl.00
229.00
348.SO
42.00
59.00
!OS.SO
SS.SO
2S.SO
30.SO
299.SO
88.00
15.00
249.SO
119.00
41.50
S7.00
76.SO
263.00
6S.SO

375.00
200.00
7S.OO
7S.OO
2S.00
25.00
S0.00
2S.OO
400.00
17S.OO
200.00 .
12S.OO
2S.OO
12S.OO
22S.OO
12S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
12S.OO
2S.OO
27S.OO
7S.OO
S0.00
12S.OO
7S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
2S.OO
17S.OO
200.00
7S.OO
7S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
12S.OO
100.00
17S.OO
12S.OO

Total

l,187.7S
1,170.00
2S4.7S
3S0.7S
78S.7S
369.00
144.ZS
698.2S
1,088.7S
1,219.7S
403.7S
179.SO
1,102.7S
388.00
16S.OO
206.SO
120.7S
139.7S
129.75
186.SO
1S4.00
297.7S
1,194.7S
S62.SO
S66.2S
1,003.2S
272.75
660.7S
1,179.SO
382,7S
210.7S
237.SO
420.SO
2SS.7S
612.00
206.SO
1,103.SO
1,30S.7S
202.00
343.SO
4Sl.2S
307.2S
173.2S
133.7S
1,238.2S
S30.00
133.SO
9S4.2S
44S.SO
232.2S
347.SO
379.75
1,122.SO
369.2S

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

162
Name of Lodge

280 Madera........................
281 Mount Shasta....._......
282 Callayomi....................
283 South West..... _..........
285 San Miguel.................
286 Paso Robles ................
287 Winnedumah..............
288 Maxwell......................
289 Elsinore.......................
290 East Gate.....................
291 Santa Paula................
292 Los Gatos..,........_.......
293 Orange Grove............
294 Traver.........................
29S Mt. Jackson................
296 Silver Gate..................
297 Dunsmuir....................
299 Liberty.........................
300 Redlands ......................
301 Ontario...............:........
302 Santa Lucia....._.........
303 Porterville..................
304 Reedley........................
30S Azt1sa...........................
306 Ashlar..........................
307 Santa Monica.............
308 Monrovia.....................
309 Delano.............._.........
310 Sisson..........................
312 Los Banos...................
313 Tehachapi....................
314 Temescal..........._........
31S Norwalk......................
316 Sanger.........................
317 Fallbrook....................
318 Emmanuel...................
319 Hollenbeck..................
320 South Gate..................
321 Alisa! ......................,_,,
322 Alhambra....................
323 Whittier......................
324 Corona..........._............
325 Consuelo......................
326 ·Needles........................
327 Long Beach.................
328 Redondo......................
329 Vallee de France........
330 Kilauea........................
331 Pacific Grove..............
332 San Pedro...................
333 Alta..............................
334 Covina..........................
33S West Gate...................
336 Fruitvale.....................

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
HomeTas

87.SO
26.00
38.SO
78.00
28.00
S9.SO
6S.SO
29.00
60.SO
444.SO
lS0.00
98.SO
100.00
58.00
76.SO
318.00
112.00
130.00
176.50
127.00
S9.50
lSl.SO
68.SO
89.SO
100.SO
133.50
116.00
83.SO
30.00
70.00
87.SO
63.00
62.00
84.SO
2S.OO
41.SO
638.SO
333.00
S7.00
183.50
230.00
2S3.00
71.50
123.00
27S.OO
llS.00
67.50
100.SO
79.00
2S7.00
46.50
112.SO
433.SO
399.00

11925
39.00
44.25
109.50
42.00
77.2S
81.7S
42.00
72.7S
S67.7S
193.SO
141.7S
141.00
73.50
96.7S
412.50
148.SO
168.00
24S.2S
lSl.50
72.7S
207.7S
102.7S
117.7S
12225
1822S
169.50
119.2S
45.00
90.00
113.2S
90.00
84.00
110.2S
37.SO
54.7S
881.2S
472.50
76.SO
254.2S
327.00
3S7.00
102.7S
148.50
388.50
1S4.SO
93.7S
150.7S
109.50
346.SO
36.7S
15S2S
S37.7S
543.00

79.SO
26.00
29.50
73.00
28.00
SI.SO
S4.SO
28.00
48.SO
378.SO
129.00
94.SO
94.00
49.00
64.50
27S.OO
99.00
112.00
163.SO
101.00
48.50
138.50
68.SO
78.SO
81.SO
121.SO
113.00
79.SO
30.00
60.00
7S.SO
60.00
56.00
73.SO
2S.OO
36.SO
587.SO
31S.OO
Sl.00
169.50
218.00
238.00
68.SO
99.00
2S9.00
103.00
62.SO
100.SO
73.00
231.00
24.50
103.50
3S8.50
362.00

100.00
100.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
100.00
25.00
100.00
57S.OO
125.00
S0.00
S0.00
7S.OO
100.00
42S.OO
175.00
lS0.00
lS0.00
325.00
100.00
12S.OO
100.00
100.00
125.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
100.00
50.00
2S.OO
50.00
50.00
S0.00
475.00
225.00
50.00
125.00
22S.OO
150.00
S0.00
300.00
12S.OO
125.00
12S.OO
S0.00
17S.OO
22S.OO
100.00
7SO.OO
350.00

Total

386.2S
91.00
212.2S
28S.SO
123.00
263.2S
301.75
124.00
281.7S
1,96S.7S
S97.50
384.75
38S.OO
2SS.50
337.7S
1,430.SO
S34.SO
S60.00
73S.2S
704.SO
280.7S
622.7S
239.7S
38S.7S
404.2S
S62.2S
423.50
307.2S
lOS.00
320.00.
326.2S
238.00
2S2.00
318.2S
87.SO
182.7S
2,S82.2S
1,34S.SO
234.SO
7322S
1,000.00
998.00
292.7S
670.50
1,047.SO
497.SO
348.7S
3Sl.7S
311.SO
1,009.SO
332.7S
471.2S
2,079.7S
1,654.00

Name of Lodge

337 Carquinez................._.
338 San Jacinto.................
339 Fullerton....................•
341 Oxnard........................
343 San Fernando.............
344 Starr King..........._.....
34S Brentwood..................
346 Palo Alto.....................
347 McKinley....................
348 San Bernardino..........
349 Sequoia........................
3Sl Palestine......................
3S2 Sunset..........................
353 Pinole...........................
354 Presidio................... _
3S5 Hollywood..................
3S6 Mill Valley.................
3S7 Buena Park.................
3S8 Golden State.....- ........
3S9 Loyalton......................
360 San Francisco............
361 Fort Bragg..................
362 Charity....................363 Berkeley......................
36S Willits..........................
366 Las Palmas .................
367 South Pasadena.........
368 Unity............................
369 Ocean Park................
370 Amity..........:_.............
371 Le Progres de
!'Oceanic..................
372 Gardena.......................
373 Veteran........................
374 Jewel................._.........
37S Richmond....................
376 Francis Drake............
377 Artesia.........................
378 Mizpah.........................
379 Fillmore......................
380 Huntington Beach.....
381 Oceanside..........._.......
382 Highland Park...........
383 Orosi-.......................
384 El Centro.....................
38S Dinuba.........................
387 Coalinga......................
388 Parnassus....................
389 Palos Verdes..............
390 Imperial.......................
391 East Belt....................
392 West Lake..................
393 Balder..........................
394 University................._

163

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tu

Total

78.SO
60:50
185.00
116.00
132.50
288.00
48.00
223.50
15S.OO
2S2.00
481.00
280.00
223.50
67.50
291.50
484.50
1S7.00
S7.SO
444.SO
44.00
178.SO
S0.00
65.50
249.00
71.00
341.00
2S2.00
201.50
178.00
24S.50

108.7S
60.7S
264.00
172.50
167.2S
423.00
67.SO
318.7S
211.SO
340.SO
6S7.00
400.SO
30S.2S
90.7S
423.7S
644.2S
217.SO
81.7S
611.2S
49.50
254.2S
67.SO
78.7S
372.00
99.00
4SO.OO
358.SO
27S.2S
235.SO
347.2S

72.50
40.SO
176.00
llS.00
111.50
282.00
4S.OO
212.SO
141.00
227.00
438.00
267.00
203.SO
60.SO
282.50
429.50
14S.OO
54.SO
407.SO
33.00
169.SO
4S.OO
S2.SO
248.00
66.00
300.00
239.00
183.SO
1S7.00
231.SO

50.00
17S.OO
7S.OO
25.00
200.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
22S.OO
100.00
32S.OO
47S.OO
150.00
175.00
25.00
7S.OO
S00.00
100.00
25.00
32S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
S0.00
12S.OO
25.00
S0.00
400.00
lS0.00
lS0.00
200.00
12S.OO

309.75
336.75
700.00
428.50
611.25
1,018.00
185.SO
979.7S
607.SO
1,144.SO
2,0SI.00
1,097.50
907.2S
243.75
1,072.75
2,058.2S
619.SO
218.75
1,788.2S
226.SO
677.2S
212.SO
321.7S
894.00
286.00
1,491.00
999.50
810.2S
770.SO
949.25

196.SO
77.00
108.00
7S.00
314.00
98.SO
42.SO
206.00
80.50
128.00
64.00
240.50
46.SO
129.00
102.50
172.SO
347.50
248.00
31.SO
39.50
S34.SO
26S.SO
271.50

2S4.25
lOS.00
13S.OO
108.00
426.00
128.2S
63.75
291.00
113.2S
180.00
88.SO
335.25
6S.2S
16S.OO
12S.2S
192.7S
4852S
334.SO
44.2S
442S
717.7S
366.7S
380.25

169.SO
70.00
90.00
72.00
284.00
8S.SO
42.SO
194.00
7S.SO
120.00
59.00
223.SO
43.SO
110.00
83.50
128.SO
323.SO
223.00
29.SO
29.SO
478.SO
244.SO
253.SO

22S.OO
7S.OO
lS0.00
2S.OO
22S.OO
100.00

84S.2S
327.00
483.00
280.00
1,249.00
412.2S
148.7S
766.00
369.2S
S03.00
261.50
974.25
180.25
S29.00
486.2S
918.7S
1,331.2S
l,OSS.SO
lSS.25
238.2S
2,30S.7S
1,0SI.7S
1,080.25

7S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
S0.00
17S.OO
2S.OO
12S.OO
17S.OO
42S.OO
17S.OO
2SO.OO
S0.00
12S.OO
S7S.OO
17S.00
17S.OO

395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

164
Name of Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Turlock. ......................
Apollo..........................
Rising Light...............
Fraternity...................
Burlingame..................
Bay View ....................
Brawley.......................
Y erba Buena ..............
Glendora ......................
Moneta .................... ___
Burbank......................
La Mesa ......................
Sierra Madre..............
Honolulu ................. _..
Charter Rock. .............
Perris·--·--·-···-····--·········
Calexico.......................
W aucoba .....................
Arlington....................
Silver Trowel... ..........
Lindsay........................
Clovis ...........................
Elysian .........................
Upland.........................
Kerman .................... ,..
Inglewood...................
Eagle Rock. ............c...
York. ............................
Exeter ..........................
Holtville......................
Midway.......................
Chino Valley...............
San Dimas ...................
Pittsburg......................
McCloud......................
Alpha....... ,...................
Hammonton ................
Maricopa .....................
Fairmount...................
Claremont.. .................
Lancaster ....................
Acacia..........................
Tyrian..........................
Standard ......................
Coronado.....................
Blackmer.....................
Schofield ......................
Carpinteria.................
Wilshire......................
La Puente ....................
Torrance..... _..............
Mt. Diablo ...................
Park. ............................
VanNuys ....................

97.00
205.50
297.00
206.00
195.00
191.00
64.00
211.00
56.50
354.00
131.00
76.50
41.50
127.00
208.50
59.00
74.00
23.50
165.00
150.50
73.00
107.50
220.50
75.50
29.00
151.50
130.00
110.50
82.50
52.50
197.50
40.00
59.00
86.50
59.50
205.00
36.00
78.00
261.00
52.00
59.50
39.00
58.50
175.00
108.50
287.00
123.00
36.50
291.50
39.00
117.00
83.00
232.00
135.00

120.00
278.25
337.50
282.00
283.50
241.50
91.50
295.50

80.00
185.50
225.00
188.00
189.00
161.00
61.00
197.00
50.50
310.00
110.00
56.50
36.50
113.00
201.50
38.00
65.00
20.50
152.00
143.50
73.00
103.50
212.50
68.50
26.00
139.50
121.00
81.50
73.50
43.50
176.50
28.00
55.00
70.50
53.50
193.00
32.00
72.00
242.00
48.00
50.50
36.00
50.50
148.00
84.50
248.00
99.00
34.50
241.50
33.00
93.00
74.00
224.00
124.00

75.75
465.00
165.00
84.75
54.75
169.50
302.25
57.00
97.50
30.75
228.00
215.25
109.50
155.25
318.75
102.75
39.00
209.25
181.50
122.25
110 ?5
65.25
264 75
42.00
82.50
105.75
80.25
289.50
48.00
108.00
363.00
72.00
75.75
54.00
75.75
222.00
126.75
372.00
148.50
51.75
362.25
49.50
139.50
111.00
336.00
186.00

$25.00

Home Tax

Total

150.00
150.00
625.00
125.00
75.00
325.00
50.00
175.00
50.00
325.00
200.00
200.00
25.00
150.00
100.00
175.00
75.00
25.00
125.00
50.00

447.00
819.25
1,484.50
801.00
742.50
918.50
266.50
878.50
232.75
1,454.00
606.00
417.75
157.75
559.50
812.25
329.00
311.50
99.75
670.00
559.25
255.50
441.25
826.75
296.75
119.00
600.25
·557.50
639'.25
366.25
261.25
813.75
235.00
221.50
362.75
218.25
862.50
166.00
283.00
1,041.00
222.00
260.75
129.00
259.75
770.00
519.75
1,307.00
520.50
147.75
1,295.25
171.50
549.50
343.00
842.00
620.00

75.00
75.00
50.00
25.00
100.00
125.00
325.00
100.00
100.00
175.00
125.00
25.00
100.00
25.00
175.00
50.00
25.00
175.00
50.00
75.00
75.00
225.00
200.00
400.00
150.00
25.00
400.00
50.00
200.00
75.00
50.00
175.00

Name of Lodge

451 Montebello ..................
452 San Pasqual... .............
453 Bethlehem...................
454 Crocker .......................
455 Golden West... ............
457 Ramona .......................
458 Henry S. Orme ..........
459 Riverbank. ...................
460 Mount Oso..................
461 Argonaut .....................
462 Paul Revere ................
463 Morgan Hill ...............
464 Alta Vista ...................
465 Center..........................
466 Libertas.......................
467 Culver City.................
468 Rockridge ....................
469 Yorba Linda ...............
470 Lincoln .........................
471 Delta ............................
472 M"
am ........... -··--···----·····
473 Blythe ..........................
474 Victory.....................•..
. .......................
.
475 A mer1ca
476 Coachella .....................
477 Temblor .......................
478 Thousand Oaks ..... _...
479 Golden Rule .... ~...........
480 Fellowship..................
481 Mt. Davidson.............
482 Clarence F. Smith......
483 Bell ...............................
484 Albert Pike.................
485 Chowchilla..................
486 Caledonia.....................
487 Vallej 0 •.....•••••••...•••••••.•
488 Patterson.....................
489 East Bay......................
490 Corcoran.....................
491 Woodstock ..................
492 Garvanza.....•...............
493 Atascadero..................
494 Acorn ...........................
495 Lebanon....................... ..
496 Riverdale .....................
497 Fremont..---·---·------···--·
498 Stockton......................
499 Capital City.................
500 Roosevelt.. ...................
501 Westwood...................
502 Harbor .........................
503 Point.. ..........................
5041 Seaside.........................
505 Silver Cord .................

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

120.00
178.50
180.50
151.50
246.50
112.00
282.00
51.50
94.00
201.50
264.50
45.50
140.00
190.50
132.50
102.00
191.50
65.50
135.50
159.00
75.50
22.50
119.00
213.50
48.00
61.00
160.50
206.00
95.50
148.00
140.00
102.00
136.00
28.00
87.50
125.00
37.50
134.50
40.50
82.50
90.00
33.50
186.00
153.00
22.00
156.00
60.50
91.50
77.50
116.50
80.50
49.00
149.50
138.50

157.50
252.75
242.25
183.75
353.25
148.50
333.00
54.75
135.00
251.25
380.25
68.25
205.50
239.25
185.25
139.50
261.75
72.75
198.75
208.50
95.25
20.25
165.00
242.25
60.00
87.00
225.75
259.50
135.75
214.50
172.50
121.50
150.00
42.00
104.25
166.50
51.75
192.75
51.75
116.25
126.00
41.25
234.00
214.50
33.00
198.00
84.75
120.75
107.25
143.25
101.25
66.00
203.25
164.25

105.00
168.50
161.50
122.50
235.50
99.00
222.00
36.50
90.00
167.50
253.50
45.50
137.00
159.50
123.50
93.00
174.50
48.50
132.50
139.00
63.50
13.50
110.00
161.50
40.00
58.00
150.50
173.00
90.50
143.00
115.00
81.00
100.00
28.00
69.50
111.00
34.50
128.50
34.50
77.50
84.00
27.50
156.00
143.00
22.00
132.00
56.50
80.50
71.50
95.50
67.50
44.00
135.50
109.50

165
$25.00

Home Tax

150.00
75.00 .
125.00
250.00
75.00
125.00
625.00
125.00
25.00
325.00
100.00
50.00
300.00
75.00
100.00
150.00
150.00
50.00
175.00
125.00
75.00
75.00
500.00
100.00
25.00
100.00
375.00
50.00
25.00
175.00
175.00
250.00
200.00
100.00
25.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
75.00
50.00
325.00
100.00
250.00
50.00
125.00
75.00
175.00
100.00
75.00
275.00
275.00

Total

532.50
674.75
709.25
707.75
910.25
484.50
1,462.00
267.75
344.00
945.25
998.25
159.25
532.50
889.25
516.25
434.50
777.75
336.75
516.75
681.50
359.25
131.25
469.00
1,117.25
248.00
231.00
636.75
1,013.50
371.75
530.50
602.50
479.50
636.00
98.00
461.25
502.50
148.75
505.75
176.75
326.25
375.00
152.25
901.00
610.50
77.00
736.00
251.75
417.75
331.25
530.25
349.25
234.00
763.25
687.25

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name or Lodge .

506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545

Mount Olive ...............
El Segundo................
Joppa ............................
Benjamin Franklin....
Cupertino....................
Sunnyvale...................
Palms...........................
Cahuenga....................
Argonne........... _.........
Vermont Square ........
Taft..............................
Mount Vernon ...........
La Jolla.......................
Euclid................... ·--··
Ionic....-·····················Piedmont .....................
Sunrise........................
Bellflower...................
Catalina Island...........
George Washington..
Bay City................ _ ...
Covenant ......................
Beverly Hills..............
Loyalty........................
Sun Garden .................
Alexandria..................
Smyrna........................
Azure........·-·········-·····
Forest Hill ..................
Alexander Hamilton.
Seal Rock....................
Utopia ..........................
Ascot ............................
Belvedere....................
Queen Beach...............
H. M. Stephens..........
Lankershim.................
Signal ...·-············-······
Glendale.......................
Jonathan......................
54'.b San Gabriel... ..............
547 Arcadia........................
548 Triangle......................
549 Justice..........................
550 Seaport.. ... _.................
551 Lakeshore...................
552 Semper Virens...........
553 Golden City.................
554 Educator.....................
555 White Pine..................
556 Fairfax ........................
557 Hermosa......................
558 Pt. Firmin...................
559 Crafts~~m ...................

167

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

334.00
92.00
37.00
100.00
44.00
68.50
101.50
152.50
178.50
190.00
93.00
110.50
75.00
137.00
181.00
109.00
88.00
90.00
57.50
150.00
118.00
147.50
109.50
141.00
200.00
73.00
30.00
98.00
53.00
77.50
72.50
239.50
138.50
113.00
59.50
142.00
122.00
130.50
180.50
85.50
73.50
48.00
59.00
75.50
93.00
93.00
63.50
34.50
85.50
54.00
59.00
59.00
143.00
124.50

319.50
129.00
39.00
135.00
55.50
87.75
135.75
204.75
252.75
247.50
118.50
156.75
99.00
154.50
. 219.00
153.00
115.50
117.00
75.75
204.00
150.00
195.75
140.25
154.50
255.00
87.00
33.00
132.00
70.50
96.75
96.75
303.75
170.25
141.00
78.75
195.00
162.00
185.25
231.75
108.75
99.75
66.00
72.00
113.25
127.50
132.00
86.25
44.25
114.75
67.50
78.00
88.50
186.00
143.25

213.00
86.00
26.00
90.00
37.00
58.50
90.50
136.50
168.50
165.00
79.00
104.50
66.00
103.00
146.00
102.00
77.00
78.00
50.50
136.00
100.00
130.50
93.50
103.00
170.00
58.00
22.00
88.00
47.00
64.50
64.50
202.50
113.50
94.00
52.50
130.00
108.00
123.50
154.50
72.50
66.50
44.00
48.00
75.50
85.00
88.00
57.50
29.50
76.50
45.00
52.00
59.00
124.00
95.50

1,250.00
50.00
125.00
175.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
100.00
125.00
200.00
100.00
50.00
125.00
375.00
275.00
175.00
100.00
200.00
75.00
75.00
225.00
150.00
250.00
325.00
275.00
150.00
50.00
75.00
50.00
125.00
25.00
525.00
200.00
200.00
50.00
150.00
175.00
75.00
225.00
150.00
75.00
125.00
150.00
75.00
100.00
50.00
75.00
100.00
75.00
50.00
225.00
225.00

Total

2,116.50
357.00
227.00
500.00
211.50
289.75
427.75
593.75
724.75
802.50
390.50
421.75
365.00
769.50
821.00
539.00
380.50
485.00
258.75
565.00
593.00
623.75
593.25
723.50
900.00
368.00
135.00
393.00
220.50
363.75
258.75
1,270.75
622.25
548.00
240.75
617.00
567.00
514.25
791.75
416.75
314.75
283.00
329.00
264.25
380.50
413.00
257.25
183.25
376.75
241.50
239.00
206.50
678.00
588.25

560
561
562
563
564
565
5()6
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
5Z6
577
578
579
580
581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596
597
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614

Name of Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

Plymouth....................
E. San Diego..............
Pyramid ......................
South Park.................
Foothill... .....................
West Adams ...............
James A. Garfield ......
Searchlight.................
Park Blvd....................
Chateau Thierry........
Military Service.........
Francis K. Shattuck ..
James Madison...........
Hillcrest ......................
S. W. Hackett............
Fort Crook..................
El Cajon Valley .........
Sunnyside ....................
Progressive................
Warren G. Harding ..
Santa Maria...............
Security.......................
Rialto...........................
Wasco..........................
Harding.......................
Manchester .................
Garden Grove .............
Valley Forge..............
El Sereno....................
Kauai.. .........................
Compass ......................
Escalon........................
Tujunga.......................
All States....................
Service.........................
Alexander G. Bell... ...
Guardian.....................
Truth...........................
Pearl Harbor..............
Carmelita....................
Lynwood .....................
Grizzly.........................
Melrose ........................
Dimond........................
Jubilee..........................
Glassell Park..............
Sojourner ....................
Granada.......................
Provident....................
Elmhurst. ....................
Canoga.........................
Temple City ................
Three Pillars ..............
Larchmont.. ................

95.00
136.50
93.00
177.50
128.00
120.50
75.00
166.00
108.00
102.50
162.50
89.00
100.00
31.50
102.50
44.50
32.00
159.50
150.00
88.50
26.00
111.50
53.50
75.00
104.50
132.50
49.50
114.00
77.50
56.50
77.50
50.50.
71.50
141.00
150.00
104.50
136.50
57.50
96.00
95.00
62.50
59.50
68.50
98.50
90.50
159.50
38.50
155.00
74.50
77.00
59.00
64.50
84.50
103.00

132.00
156.75
120.00
216.75
171.00
150.75
99.00
240.00
150.00
128.25
189.75
126.00
120.00
41.25
135.75
53.25
48.00
182.25
177.00
105.75
36.00
129.75
60.75
81.00
110.25
156.75
65.25
133.50
90.75
71.25
98.25
54.75
68.25
192.00
211.50
114.75
156.75
71.25
115.50
123.00
74.25
()6.75
89.25
135.75
110.25
170.25
50.25
190.50
92.25
94.50
84.00
71.25
96.75
130.50

88.00
104.50
80.00
144.50
114.00
100.50
66.00
160.00
100.00
85.50
126.50
84.00
80.00
27.50
90.50
35.50
32.00
121.50
118.00
70.50
24.00
86.50
40.50
54.00
73.50
104.50
43.50
89.00
60.50
47.50
65.50
36.50
45.50
128.00
141.00
76.50
104.50
47.50
77.00
82.00
49.50
44.50
59.50
90.50
73.50
113.50
33.50
127.00
61.50
63.00
56.00
47.50
64.50
87.00

75.00
325.00
125.00
325.00
125.00
225.00
75.00
75.00
125.00
150.00
275.00
50.00
175.00
75.00
125.00
75.00

-

425.00
300.00
125.00
25.00
275.00
125.00
225.00
275.00
250.00
100.00
225.00
200.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
200.00
150.00
125.00
275.00
250.00
100.00
200.00
150.00
125.00
125.00
100.00
75.00
125.00
375.00
75.00
275.00
150.00
125.00
50.00
175.00
250.00
175.00

Total

390.00
722.75
418.00
863.75
538.00
596.75
315.00
641.00
483.00
466.25
753.75
349.00
475.00
175.25
453.75
208.25
112.00
888.25
745.00
389.75
111.00
602.75
279.75
435.00
563.25
643.75
258.25
561.50
428.75
275.25
341.25
241.75
385.25
611.00
627.50
570.75
647.75
276.25
488.50
450.00
311.25
295.75
317.25
399.75
399.25
818.25
197.25
747.50
378.25
359.50
249.00
358.25
495.75
495.50

Name or Lodge

615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
640
641
642
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
664
665
666
667
668

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

168

Hemet..--------·-·-·--·····--··
Seal Beach..................
Big Bear......................
Southland....................
Neptune.......................
Point Loma....._..........
The Gardens...............
Atwater...................... .
Menorah......................
Fortitude.....................
Angeles Mesa.............
Chula Vista.................
Lamanda Park...........
Beacon of West.........
Fairview..~---················
Ingleside......................
Benevolence..... _.........
Normal Heights........
Poinsettia....................
Victorville..................
Riverside.....................
John Marshall.....____ _
Palisades.....................
Indian Rock ................
Composite...................
Veritas·-····---·········----·James A. Foshay.......
La Cumbre·----------------·
Alta Loma._________________.
Lomita______________________ :__
A. F. E. Irwin ___________ _
Metropolitan______________
Hawthorne..................
Damascus. __________________ _
Florence......................
La Brea........................
Menlo Park.................
Crescenta Valley........
Fontana....._: ...............
Jordan..........................
Monte Vista................
Citrol...........................
John D. Spreckels......
Livingston....·-----··-···--·
La Habra;...................
Baldwin Park.............
Malta..·--···-··---···-········Henry Knox .............. .
Ojai........................____ _
Oasis................,...........
Kaweah: ......................
Reseda-----------------------Meridian..·-----·--···-·····-·
San Gorgonio ............ .

General
~'und

41.00
26.50
32.00
112.00
73.50
64.50
125.00
108.50
174.50
70.50
168.50
51.00
58.50
52.00
71.00
53.50
118.50
111.00
160.00
62.50
120.00
62.00
88.50
54.00
76.50
55.00
47.00
39.50
131.00
53.50
85.50
50.00
35.50
127.00
109.00
113.00
46.00
51.50
47.00
94.00
132.50
60.00
170.50
43.00
57.00
32.00
57.00
120.50
27.00
48.00
34.00
41.50
93.00
79.00

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

52.50
27.75
27.00
141.00
90.75
66.75
136.50
116.25
188.25
87.75
222.75
72.00
78.75
70.50
73.50
75.75
126.75
132.00
168.00
74.25
111.00
72.00
119.25
75.00
89.25
57.00
55.50
51.75
171.00
72.75
96.75
61.50
39.75
136.50
126.00
124.50
51.00
72.75
60.00
109.50
161.25
85.50
195.75
46.50
78.00
40.50
73.50
131.25
34.50
52.50
39.00
53.25
118.50
58.50

35.00
18.50
18.00
94.00
60.50
44.50
91.00
77.50
125.50
58.50
148.50
48.00
52.50
47.00
49.00

50.00
100.00
150.00
125.00
100.00
225.00
275.00
350.00
400.00
100.00
200.00
25.00
50.00
50.00
175.00
50.00
350.00
200.00
600.00
100.00
375.00
100.00
175.00
50.00
175.00
175.00
100.00
25.00
150.00
' 25.00
125.00
100.00
75.00
400.00
175.00
225.00
100.00
25.00
75.00
175.00
250.00
25.00
425.00
100.00
75.00
50.00
50.00
400.00
75.00
125.00
50.00
50.00
100.00
400.00

178.50
172.75
227.00
472.00
324.75
400.75
627.50
652.25
888.25
316.75
739.75
196.00
239.75
219.50
368.50
229.75
679.75
531.00
1,040.00
286.25
680.00
282.00
462.25
229.00
400.25
325.00
239.50
150.75
566.00
199./5
371.75
252.50
176.75
754.50
494.00
545.50
231.00
197.75
222.00
451.50
651.25
227.50
921.75
220.50
262.00
149.50
229.50
739.25
159.50
260.50
149.00
180.25
390.50
576.50

so.so

84.50
88.00
112.00
49.50
74.00
48.00
79.50
50.00
59.50
38.00
37.00
34.50
114.00
48.50
64.50
41.00
26.50
91.00
84.00
83.00
34.00
48.50
40.00
73.00
107.50
57.00
130.50
31.00
52.00
27.00
49.00
87.50
23.00
35.00
26.00
35.50
79.00
39.00

669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680

169

Name of Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

John P . Jarman.........
Greenleaf....................
San Clemente..............
Laguna Beach.............
Far West.....................
Los Cerritos....·-·-·······
Modesto.......................
Willow Glen.._____________
Liberal Arts................
Altadena......................
Canby's Cross.............
Carmel.........................

84.00
108.50
15.50
32.00
82.00
51.00
81.00
53.50
35.50
101.50
17.50
39.50

73.50
114.75
23.25
34.50
94.50
63.00
94.50
57.75
45.75
119.25
17.25
27.75

49.00
76.50
15.50
23.00
63.00
42.00
63.00
38.50
30.50
79.50
11.50
18.50

300.00
325.00
75,00
200.00
75.00
175.00
125.00
75.00
250.00
50;00
200.00

Total

506.50
624.75
54.25
164.50
439.50
231.00
413.50
274.75
186.75
550.25
96.25
285.75

Total due ..................$69,613.50 $92,055.75 $61,370.50 $78,425.00 $301,464.75
ROBERT E. ALLAN,
PERCY
KING,
JOHN COREY,
RALPH
HOYT,.
FRED L. THOMAS,
JULES N. NATHAN,
OTIS IVERSEN OLIVER,

s.

E-

Adopted.

Committee.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the M .'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Comm_ittee on Grievances begs leave to report in part as follows:
During the course of the current Masonic year there have been referred to this committee thirty-two trial records arising in Lodges of this
jurisdiction and one petition for reinstatement.
Your committee desires to congratulate the craft, the officers of the
various Lodges in which trials have been held, and the commissioners who
have served in such trials, upon the sincere and earnest manner in which
their several duties have been performed. In a high majority of the cases
handled, · the proceedings appear regular in all respects-or, at least, such
errors as may have occurred were of such trivial importance as not to
affect the disposition of the matter or require special attention by this
Grand Lodge. In some instances, however, your committee finds itself
unable to agree with the dispositions made, and these will be reported to
you separately with our recommendations thereon.
There ar e a few general matters upon ~hich brief comment may be
of value to the craft.
Sections 192 and 192a of our Constitution providing for automatic
expulsion in cases of conviction of a felony, followed by imprisonment
therefor, and where the accused fails to demand a trial, have again been
found most useful in the saving of time, energy and expense. Your committee is confirmed in the view that the . provisions of these two sections
are, at the same time, entirely fair and just to the accused. The procedure
prescribed by these sections should be used whenever the circumstances
are such as to permit of the automatic expulsion proceeding. In one case
covered by this report, the proceedings could well have been under Section
192. In that case, however, formal charges were filed based upon a record
of conviction in the state court, followed by imprisonment. The cause very
properly resulted in expulsion. However, the holding of a meeting for the
election of trial commissioners and the trial thereafter before the commis-

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

sioners could welt have been avoided if the proceedings had been brought
under Section 192, as the circumstances permitted.
With respect to the matter of setting forth charges in an accusation,
attention should again be called to the fact that a specification should plead
the commission of the offense and not merely that the accused has been
indicted therefor or has been tried or convicted. It is the commission of
an offense which constitutes unmasonic conduct and not the mere fact that
the accused may have been tried or convicted.
.
Likwise, attention should be called to the fact that under our Constitution a separate vote is required on the guilt or innocence of the accused
under each specification and also a separate vote on the guilt or innocence
of the accused on the general charge of unmasonic conduct. It will not
suffice merely to find the accused guilty of unmasonic conduct without a
vote being taken upon each of the various specifications which appear in
the charges. Nor will it suffice to take a vote upon each of the specifications without a separate vote being taken upon the general charge of
unmasonic conduct.
.
Where vacancies exist in the trial commission at the time of the trial,
same should be filled in the manner provided by the Constitution (Section
200) to the end that a trial commission of the number fixed by vote in
the Lodge may pass upon the charges.
.
Your committee would respectfully recommend that a Master, m
whose Lodge a trial is about to be had, should im.me?iately fa~iliarize
himself with Article IV, of Part VI, of our Constitution (Sections 188
to 207); he should then read the excellent "Manual for the Conduct _of
Masonic Trials" by our late Brother Walter Haas, for many years chairman of this committee; and, if the Master is still in doubt as to the proper
course to pursue in any matter of procedure, he should confer with his
inspector, the Grand Secretary, or some member of the <?rieva~ce Co~­
mittee, all of whom witl gladly and promptly lend their assistance m
the matter.
To your committee has been referred the following trial records, to-wit:
Omnibus Report
Trial Record No. 868 from Hiram Lodge No. 43.
Trial Record No. 869 from Speranza Itatiana Lodge No. 219.
Trial Record No. 871 from Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569.
Trial Record No. 876 from Calexico Lodge No. 412.
Trial Record No. 877 from Bell Lodge No. 483.
Tria1 Record No. 878 from Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.
Trial Record No. 879 from Caledonia Lodge No. 486.
Trial Record No. 881 from Eden Lodge No. 113.
Trial Record No. 884 from Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38.
Trial Record No. 886 from Speranza Italiana Lodge No~ 219.
Trial Record No. 887 from University Lodge No. 394.
Trial Record No. 888 from East Gate Lodge No. 290:
Trial Record No. 889 from Mystic Tie Lodge No. 389.
Trial Record No. 890 from Lancaster Lodge No. 437.
Trial Record No. 891 from Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44.
Trial Record No. 892 from Orange Grove Lodge No. 293.
Trial Record No. 893 from Euclid Lodge No. 519.
Trial Record No. 894 from West Lake Lodge No. 392.
Trial Record No: ,895 from Alcatraz Lodge No. 244.
Trial Record No. 896 from Colusa Lodge No. 240.
Trial Record No. 897 from Bay City Lodge No. 526.
Trial Record No. 898 from San Diego Lodge No. 35.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

171

Your committee has carefully gone into each of said records and has
not found any serious error or irregularity therein. We conclude that substantial justice has been done in each instance, and would therefore offer
the following resolution and move its adoption:
"Be it resolved: That the findings and judgment in each of the above
mentioned cases be, and the same hereby are, approved."

Adopted.
At the communication of Grand Lodge in 1935 there was referred to
your Committee on Grievances Trial Record No. 845, from Lodi Lodge
N o. 256. Based upon the record as it then existed this committee recommended to Grand Lodge that a finding of not guilty be changed to guilty
and the penalty be fixed at reprimand, which recommendation was adopted.
Shortly after adjournment of Grand Lodge and before the penalty had
been administered certain facts not appearing in the record were called to
the attention of the Grand Master, which led him to make a personal investigation in the matter. As a result, the infliction of the penalty of reprimand
was held in abeyance. We are convinced that a mistake was then made as
to the accused in this case and we offer the following resolution and move
its adoption:
" Resolved: That the action of Grand Lodge at its communication of
1935 finding the accused guilty and fixing the penalty at reprimand, be and
the same is hereby annulled, vacated and set aside."

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances t o whom was referred Trial Record
No. 875 . from San Pedro Lodge No. 332, begs leave to report as follows :
In this matter, the Lodge attempted to proceed under Section 192 of
our Constitution.
Properly authenticated court records in the fi le show that the accused
had pleaded guilty to a charge founded on Section 288 of our Penal Code
and as a result thereof, was sentenced to San Quentin, the date of th~
commitment being December 19, 1934.
These proceedings were commenced on September 7, 1935-tess than
one year after the date of the commitment to San Quentin.
The notice addressed to the accused was not sent to him a t San Quentin,
but was sent to an address in San Pedro, a recital in the certificate of
service being made that this was "his last known place of address." There
is no showing in the record that the accused had been released from San
Quentin at that time ; and the plain presumption is that he was still confined in prison when this notice was mailed. This would appear evident
from the date on which he was committed to prison.
Grand Lodge has several times reversed expulsions based upon proceedings under Section 192 where the record has disclosed that the notice
given to said accused was sent to his business or residence address when
the accused was in fact in prison at the time. We see no alternative but
to follow fo rmer rulings in this respect.
The form which has been prepared for use in proceedings under Section 192 was not employed in this particular case. In the form which was
used, the accused was merely advised that charges, as set forth in the
judgment and conviction in the Superior Court, were on file in the L odge
and that notice was being given to the accused in compliance with Sectio~
192 of the Constitution. The notice did not advise the accused of his right
to demand a trial, nor require h im to elect, within a period .of sixty days,
whether he chose to have a Masonic Trial. In the opinion of your Committee, the notice was clearly insufficient to conform to the requirement'.s

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of Section 192 of our Constitution. For this further reason, we feel . that
these proceedings must be reversed and commenced anew. Since section
192 provides for a summary method of expulsion in the absence of demand for trial by the accused, all proceedings under said section must
strictly conform to the requirements thereof.
We would further recommend to the Craft that in proceedings under
this section, use be made of the forms which have been prepared for that
purpose. We offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
"Be it resolved: That the proceedings herein resulting in expulsion of
the accused, be and the same hereby are reversed and the matter remanded
to San Pedro Lodge No. 332 for further action."
Your Committee to whom was referred trial record No. 883, from
Mount Davidson No. 481, wherein the trial commission, despite the admission of guilt by the accused, and the uncontradicte-d evidence of his
embezzlements, found the accused not guilty of the charge of unmasonic
conduct, find that from the evidence submitted at the trial as shown by the
record clearly justified a judgment of guilty and we therefore offer the
following resolution:
Resolved, that the finding of the trial commission of not guilty on the
specification and not guilty on the charge of unmasonic conduct, be and
each of them is charged to a finding of guilty, and that the penalty be,
and the same hereby is, fixed at expulsion.

2. That the accused was convicted on August 28, 1930, of violation
of the Wright Act at Tehachapi.
·
The Trial Commission voted: On the first specification: Guilty, 8; not
gu(lty, 0. On the second specification : Guilty, 7; not guilty, 1. On the
charge of ~nmasonic conduct: Guilty., 8; not guilty, 0. On the penalty:
For., expulsion: Aye, 7; no, 1.
\First Specification: The evidence on the allegations of th e first specification was conflicting, and the accused claimed that he had lived in Long
Beaqh for one year prior to the presentation of his petition for degrees to
Alta Loma Lodge on June 1, 1931, but he admitted on cross-examination
that he had not been registered as a voter at Long Beach, and that he
had been registered as a voter at Tehachapi. The accused produced no
other witnesses and offered no other evidence in his behalf.
By their vote of guilty on this specification, the ·c ommissioners found
that the accused was a resident of Tehachapi when he presented his petition to Alta Loma Lodge, and that his petition contained misrepresentations as to his residence.
Section 202 of our Constitution provides that the Trial Commissioners
are the sole judges of the facts proven. Here there was a conflict of evidence; the commissioners had all the witnesses before them; saw their
demeanor and manner of testimony; could judge of their sincerity, accuracy and intelligence; and were fully equipped to decide upon the weight of
the evidence, which is ample to sustain their finding.
No rule of appellate procedure is more firmly settled than that the
weight of evidence is for the Court or jury to decide. Where there is any
substantial conflict of evidence, an appellate court will not pass upon its
weight or preponderance. (2 Cal. Jur., 935). The record shows that there
was such a substantial conflict in the present case, and the action of the
Trial Commissioners on this specification sihould be affirmed.
_
Second Specification: The ac<:used objected to the receipt of evidence in
support of the second specification on the ground tihat the alleged offense
therein set forth had occurred before the accused became a Mason, and
hence the Trial Commission had no jurisdiction." The Master did not rule
on this objection other than to say that he would leave everything to the
Commissioners to determine. (Transcript, p. 5) However, this question
had been definitely settled 65 years ago by Grand Master Leonidas E .
Pratt, in 1870, when be said:
"I have been repeatedly asked, Can a Mason be tried for acts committed before his initiation? There has been no adjudication on this
question in this jurisdiction, and it has been a matter of much sharp
controversy, and various decisions in other Grand Lodges. • * • There
are acts not wrong or immoral in themselves, which are still inhibited
by the Masonic obligation. Such an act, committed before initiation,
could never be the subject of investigation; for it is only by virtue of
having been done in violation of the Masonic obligation that it could
be an offense at all ; and how can one violate an obligation before he
has taken it? But those acts which are in themselves wrong or immoral, though committed before initiation, may be afterwards punished." (Proceedings 1870, _p: 307.)
This ruling was affirmed by Grand Lodge in 1871. (Proceedings 1871,
p. 152.)
The record shows that no evidence whatsoever was offered in support
of the second sp.ecification. The record contains a document which may
be·a copy of the conviction referred ·to in that specification ; but the document was not certified,. and does not purporl to be a copy of any certi_fi~d

172

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 880, referring to G. R. S., a m ember of Acacia Lodge No. 438, tried
by Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, found guilty by the trial commission and
sentenced to expulsion, on appeal by the accused beg to report that we find
no errors in the record and the evidence produced clearly justified trial
commission in finding the accused guilty of unmasonic conduct. We therefore recommend that the penalty of expulsion awarded by the trial commission be and is hereby approved and affirmed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred trial record No.
885, wherein the accused A. S., a member of Acacia Lodge No. 438, was
tried by Southern California Lodge No. 278, found guilty of unmasonic
conduct and sentenced to be expelled, on appeal by the accused, have carefully considered t'he long record and unanimously conclude that there were
no errors whatever in the trial and offer the following resolution :
Resolved, that the finding of guilty of the trial commission in record
No. 885 and the penalty of expulsion in said record be, and the same is
hereby approved and affirmed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 874, reports as follows :
The accused. H. ]. D., a member of Alta Loma Lodge No. 643 of
Signal Hill, Long Beach, Calif., was tried on November 14, 1935, at
Tehachapi, Calif., by Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 on the .charge of unmasonic conduct, set forth in two specifications (Transcript, p. 3), which,
briefly summarized, are as follows:
1. That the accused, on June 1, 1931, while a resident of Tehachapi,
Calif., petitioned Alta Loma Lodge No. 643, located at Long Beach, Calif.,
for the degrees of Masonry, representing that he was then a resident of
Long Beach, and knowing that his reputation was such that he could not
get any member of Tehachapi Lodge to sign his petition for degrees in
·that Lodge.

173

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

174

175

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

copy. The fact that the second gpecification alleges that "a copy of which
is presented with the charge," did not bring the document before the
Trial Commission until it had been regularly admitted in evidence; and
it was neither offered nor admitted.
I .
The finding of guilty on the second specification must therefore1 be
reversed.
The Penalty Affirmed: However, conviction upon one specificatidn is
sufficient to support any penalty which a Trial Commission may a"l'ard;
and in view of the fraud practiced by the accused upon our fraternity,
both by word and deed, we believe that the penalty of expulsion should
be affirmed, as it is amply warranted on the merits of the case.
Violations of Rules of Procedure: The record discloses that two important rules of our trial procedure have been disregarded in this case.
The Transcript (pp. 1 and 2) shows that one of the eight commissioners
was absent at the trial, and that the Master then appointed a brother to
fill this vacancy. An objection was made that the vacancy should be
filled by a brother selected by the commissioners. The Master then stated
that he, as Master, was allowed to appoint a commissioner with the approval of the commissioners. He asked alt the commissioners present if
they objected to this particular brother whom he had appointed, sitting
as a commissioner, and was told by the commissioners that they did not
object. (Transcript, p. 2.) While the subsequent approval by alt the
commissioners removed the invalidity of the original appointment of the
aforesaid commissioner, nevertheless the Master violated an elementary
and fundamental rule of our procedure which has existed for many years.
Section 200 of our Constitution says that if
"there shall be vacancies or a vacancy on the commission, the commissioners may, subject to the approval of the Master, choose properly qualified members or a member of the Lodge to act."
· · This means that to fill a vacancy on the Trial Commission, the commissioners first choose some qualified 'brother, and that after such choice
is approved by the Master, the brother so chosen and approved can act
as a commissioner. The Master has absolutely no power or right to make
the choice or selection of any person to fill such a vacancy. He can only
approve or disapprove the choice of commissioners. This rule is clear,
and is now called to the attention of Grand Lodge because other trial
records coming this year before this committee show that similar violations have been committed by other Masters.
The Master of a Masonic Lodge in this jurisdiction, especially in
matters relating to trial procedure, is strictly a constitutional officer, elected
under and by virtue of a Constitution, deriving his powers from it, and
subjected to its limitations. He has no implied powers, inherent or divine.
(Proceedings, Vol. 1, pp. 220-264.)
Some Masters act as if they believe that they had most of the powers
supposed to have been possessed by King Solomon; and by failing to
seek, find and obey the Masonic Law, they run a grave risk of laying
themselves open to the charge of acting in an arbitrary or unconstitutional
manner.
A Master who finds that charges are about to be preferred in his
Lodge against a brother Mason, should at once confer with his district
inspector, with the Grand Secretary, or with some member of the Grievance Committee, all of whom will gladly and promptly advise the Master
as to the rules of law governing the situation.
Appeal by Accused: On November 14, 1935, the accused was tried
by Tehachapi Lodge, found guilty and sentenced to be expelled. On November 26, 1935, the next stated meeting of Tehachapi Lodge was held;

its Master then announced in open Lodge the result of th e trial and the
same was recorded in the Lodge minutes. On Decemb~r 26, 1935, the
Grand Secretary received the trial record .f~om Tehach~p1 Lodge, an~ on
the same day, in accordance with the prov1s1ons of S.ection 207, he notified
Alt;\. Loma Lodge No. 643, to which Lodge the accused belonged, of ~he
resu\t of the trial. On June 9, 1936, the accused ser".ed on the respect.1ve
Mas[s of Tehachapi and Alta Loma Lodges a notice of appeal, statmg
there n that he had had no knowledge o f the finding and sentence of the
Trial Commission until he was informed of the same on May 19, 1936,
by th Secretary of Tehacha~i Lodge. The a~peal .was served _four months
and t irteen days after the time allowed for its filmg had expired. .
While Section 206 provides that "if the sentence be suspe~s1on ~r
expulsion, it shall go into effect at once, and the Secretary shall 1mmed1ately notify the persons suspended or exp~lled a~d. the ~rand Sec~etary
thereof," this provision does not affect the time w1thm which the notice of
appeal must be filed, to-wit: within 30 da~s ~fter the anno_unce~ent of
the result of the trial in open Lodge, that 1s, m the Lodg~ m w~1ch the
trial was had. If Grand Lodge had intended that the aforesaid requirement
of notification to the accused of the result of the trial should affect the
time within which his notice of appeal should be filed, it would have provided that the thirty days' time should run from the· notification to the accused
of the result of the trial and not from the date of the at11n.ouncement of the
result of the trial in open Lodge. This rule of notice on appeal has sto~d
unchanged and unchallenged for more than half a century, and was originally framed by Grand Master W. C. Belcher, wh? was chairman of our
Jurisprudence Committee from 1864, when he retired as Grand Master,
till his death in 1892.
Section 205 provides that after the commissioners have voted, the
Master shall order the meeting re-opened for the entry of those lawfully
entitled to admission and desirous of attending, and that he shall then and
there read the vote of the commissioners. Whether the M aster -did so
re-open the meeting in the present case does not appear from the record;
but the accused, who attended the trial and who was also represented by
an attorney, could under the provisions of Section 205, have ~en_ianded
that the Master then and there tell him the vote of the comm1ss1oners;
and if the Master then refused to do so, the attorney for the accused,
being a Mason, could have attended the stated meeting of Tehachapi Lodge
on November 26 1935, and he would then and there have learned the result
of the trial. The accused would then have had thirty days' time from
November 26, 1935, within which to appeal. If the accused did not learn
of the outcome of the trial until May 19, 1936, this was because of the
negligence and indifference of himself and his representatives. His dilatory
conduct has permitted the action of the Trial Commission to become absolute and final.
It has always been the policy of this committee, however, to decide
appeals on their merits rather than on points of appellate procedure. We
have followed this policy in this case. There is no merit whatsoever in t~e
appeal and the sentence of the Trial Commission should be affirmed. This
jurisdiction will not countenance or excuse fraud.
We would call attention to the following proposition of law:
Notice of an intended appeal to Grand Lodge must be given by the
appellant, in writing, to the Master of the Lodge within w~ich the trial
was had, within thirty days after the Master's announcement m that Lodge
of the result of the trial, and irrespective of whether or not the appellant
has been notified by the Secretary. o f said trial Lodge of the result of
the trial.

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We therefore offe.r the following resolution and move its adoption:
"Resolved: That the finding of 'guilty' by the Trial Commission on
the first specification in Record 874, and the penalty of expulsion awarded
by said commission in said record, be and they hereby are approvedind
affirmed."
.
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial R ord
No. 8.72, from Coronado Lodge No. 441, report that the accused
n~t
served with a summons as required by our law and therefore the odge
had no jurisdictio.n to proc.eed with the trial unless the accused w ived
that defect by bemg present. The accused in this case was not p esent
and therefore we offer the following resolution and recommend its doption: Resol"'.ed, t~at the action of Coronado Lodge No. 441 in expelling
the accused m Trial Record No. 872 be, and the same ·is, hereby reversed
and the matter remanded to the Lodge for a new trial.

Secretary of the Lodge procured two certified copies of the fina.I judgment
of c:onviction and thereupon gave the accused the statutory sixty.- day notice.
This notice however was sent to the former business address of the accused
an not to the state prison. On March lS, ·1936, the accused was expelled
on hi s defective notice. Obviously one should not be expelled without
hav1 g received proper notice. Your committe·e therefore offers the followi g resolution and moves its adoption : Resolved, that the action of
Ho rd Lodge No. 37, in expelling the accused in Trial Record No. 882,
be a d the same is hereby reversed and the matter remanded to the Lodge
for p oper proceedings under the provisions of Section 192 of the Constitutio by sending to the accused, at his last known place of residence,
to-w i'i Folsom Prison, the notice provided in said section and the subsequent steps as set forth therein.

w1

Adopted.
Your committee to whom was referred Trial Record No. 873, Silver
Cord Lodge No. SOS, report that the record discloses the fact that the
accused in this case was confined in a prison in Oklahoma and that service
on the accused was addressed to San Antonio, Texas, a former place of
residence. There is nothing in the record to show ·that the notice was
ever· received by the accused nor that he had any knowledge of the proceedings in his Lodge. The action of the Lodge therefore is void and a
reversal is necessary. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and
move its adoption : Resolved, that the action of Silver Cord Lodge No.
SOS, expelling the accused in Trial Record No. 873, be and the same is
hereby reversed and the matter remanded to the Lodge for further action'.

Adopted.
Your committee to which was referred Trial Record No. 870 from
Salinas .Lodge No. 204, reports as follows: The evidence as disclosed by
the rec?rd clearly demonstr~tes the guilt of the accused, namely, that while
occupymg an office of public honor and trust he had converted to his own
use public property and that notwithstanding t.he proof adduced at the
trial, the commission had found the accused not guilty. In accordance
therefor with . the facts contained in the record which were so plain, abso,l ute and undisputed that it ought to have been impossible for any of the
.t rial commissioners to have voted for the acquittal of the accused, we
offer the following resolution and move its adoption: Resolved, that the
action of ~alina~ Lodge No. 204 in acquitting M. M. of the charges preferred agamst him,. be reversed and set aside and that the said M. M. be,
and he is h~reby, found guilty .of the specification and guilty of the charge
?f unmasomc conduct and that th e penalty be fixed at expulsion.

Adopted.

·

R.

Your committee to which was referred the petition of
B. B., formerly a member of West Gate Lodge No. 33S, for restoration to membership, has had the same under consideration and offer the following
resolution: · Resolved, that R. B. B., formerly a member of West Gate
Lodge No. 33S, ·be and he is hereby restored to all the rights and privileges
of Masonry.

Report adopted.
Your committee to which was referred Trial Record No. 899 of Oxnard
Lodge No. 341, respectfully reports as follows:
The accused, ]. S., was evidently proceeded against under the provisions of Section 192 of our Constitution providing for automatic expulsion
upon conviction of a felony and receipt by the a·c cused of the notice set
forth therein.
The only pertinent document in this file consists of a certified copy
of a judgment of conviction of a felony from San Mateo County and the
record of the commitment of the accused to Sii n Quentin Prison.
More than a month ago the Grand Secr~tary called the attention of
the Lodge to the defects in the record but to date they have not been
supplied. There is not·hing whatever to show that the accused was notified
by registered mail as required by Section 192 of the Constitution that the
record of conviction against him had been filed in the Lodge and notifying
him that he had sixty days' time in which to elect, in writing, to have a
trial therein on a charge of unmasonic conduct based on the offense of
which he had been convicted. There is nothing in the record to show that
any notice whatever has ever been given to the accused nor is there anything in the record to show what final disposition was made of the case.
The Master and Secretary of the Lodge evidently believe that the mere
filing of a certified copy of the judgment of ·conviction of a felony with
their Lodge and Grand Lodge automatically expels a member. This of
course is incorrect.
This committee has pointed out on innumerable occasions and been
sustained by Grand Lodge that no valid proceedings can be taken against
any member unless he has received the notice to which he is entitled under
our Constitution.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:

Resolved, That the action of Oxnard Lodge No. 341 in expelling (as we
assume they did) ]. S., th e accused in Trial Record No. 899, be and the
same is hereby reversed and the case remanded to the Lodge for proper
proceedings under Section 192 of our Constitution.

The resolution was adopted.
Your committee to which was referred Trial Record No. 882, from
Howard Lodge No. 37, reports as follows: The accused W. B. S. was
.convicted of grand theft in the Super~or Court of Sacramento County November 19, 193S, · and thereafterwards was sentenced to state prison, to
which place he was immediately removed. On December 13, 193S, the

177

A. M. BROUILLET,
FRANK B. BELCHER,
OLIN L. BERRY,
WM. PENN HUMPHREYS,
WM. B. OGDEN,

Report adopted.

Committee.

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Scattering fragrance far and wide,
Just as it did in days of yore,
Just as it did on the other side.
Just as it will forevermore.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
1. Tenor Solo-"Oh, Lord Most Holy"·····················-············-........................ F ra ck
BENJAMIN LIEDERMAN, Fidelity Lodge No. 120
2. Report of Committee on Necrology
w ARREN E. LIBBY
3. Violin Solo-"Air for the G-String"................................................................. ach
ALAN B. PARKER, Senior Warden of Libertas Lodge No. 466, Bakersfie
4. General Eulogy
LLOYD E. WILSON
5. "Taps"
6. Benediction
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

The time assigned to us has again arrived when we give brief but
affectionate attention to those who long bore the burden and heat of the
day but, since we last convened, have forever laid down the working tools
of this life. It may be that many here today have not personally known any
of those me~bers who have passed in this brief annual period, nor yet
known of their labors for Masonry. But be it remembered that each one
of those departed has here today many friends who affectionately recall
his life and works. Thus it is most appropriate for all to join in this brief
service that each may the better perform his <luty either to these who have
now left us or for those friends who may drop from our future activities.
That each one here may feel that he has some small part to play in
paying tribute to the worth of those 173 members of this Grand Lodge who
have passed on since the 1935 communication, will all please rise and join
in a few moments of silent prayer out of respect to those who have
departed.
As we turn our thoughts to the memory of these worthy brethren may
those thoughts be of life continued and not of death as the end of all.' May
we recall with the poet Frink that "The Rose Still Grows Beyond the
Wall":
Near a shady wall a rose once grew,
Budded and blossomed in God's free light,
Watered and fed by morning dew,
Shedding its sweetness day and night.
As it grew and blossomea fair and tall,
Slowly rising to loftier height,
It came to a crevice in the wall,
Through which there shone a beam of light.
Onward it crept with added strength,
With never a thought of fear or pride
It followed the light through the crevice-length
And unfolded itself on the other side.
The light, the dew, the broadening view,
Were found the same as they were before;
And it lost itself in beauties new,
Breathing its fragrance more and more.
Shall claim of death cause us to grieve,
And make our courage faint or fall?
Nay, let us faith and hope receive.The rose still grows beyond the wall.

179

I

)¥hile not so many of the leaders of this Grand Lodge have been
taken from us during the past year, all too many of those faithful workmen
who 111ade good results possible, have been taken away. There will be but
one gfneral eulogy for all, but special mention must be first given to a few
of more prominence and great activity.
The death of Walter Francis Haas on February 16, 1936, was a severe
loss to this Grand Lodge as he had been the Chairman of its Grievance
Committee since 1925. He was born Nov. 12, 1869, in California, Missouri;
came to Los Angeles May 30, 1884, where he finished high school in 1889.
He studied law and was admitted to the practice in 1891, and followed the
practice of that profession with great credit to the profession and to himself until his death. He was initiated in Palestine Lodge No. 351, January
20, 1903, passed January 27th, raised February 17th, 1903, and became its
master in 1910. He received the Scottish Rite degrees in 1911, was decorated with the Court of Honor in 1915, and received the Thirty-Third degree in 1921. He was knighted in Golden West Commandery No. 43 in
November, 1921. With the exception of the years 1912 to 1914, he was continuously a member of the Grievance Committee from 1911 until his death.
He led an active and useful life in Masonry and in his community and received many civil honors at its hands, for he had been City Attorney of
Los Angeles, Monrovia, Sierra Madre and Alhambra. He was respected
and trusted in his every activity. His loss is keenly felt by every one, but
more especially by his many friends in this Grand Lodge.
Another veteran is mourned in the passing of Eli Broch Trago, on
November 15, 1935, who has been one of the Inspectors of this Grand
Lodge continuously since 1908-twenty-seven years of helpful service.
Brother Trago was born in Cisne, Illinois, October 20, 1868, and came to
Santa Ana in 1886, where he resided until his death. He served the County.
of Orange as its County Treasurer from 1930 until his death, being reelected in 1934 without opposition, a recognition to his worth, and a tribute
to the general esteem in which he was held. He was initiated in Santa
Ana Lodge No. 241, on August 29, 1902, was passed September 19, 1902,
and raised October 22, 1902. He became its Master in 1907, and was appointed lrtspector of the lodges of Orange County in 1908. His passing has
been attended by universal expressions of regret in official, private and
fraternal circles, in all of which he was loved and revered. As an Inspector
his counsel was sought and followed.
Another active Grand Lodge official is mourned in the passing on July
1, 1936, of Oscar Lawrence Harris, Assistant Grand Lecturer for the First
District. Brother Harris was a member of Enterprise Lodge No. 70, located
at Yuba City where he was initiated May 5, 1927, passed May 13th and
raised June 2nd, of the same year. He became its Master in 1933, and
since that time has been enthusiastic and efficient in the service he has
rendered to this Grand Lodge. He was also a past officer in the Chapter,
Council and Commandery of the York Rite bodies. We mourn his loss.
Another face long familiar in this Grand body is missed this year. It
is that of Denman Sully Wagstaff, Chairman of the Library Committee
since 1921. He affiliated with Fairmount Lodge No. 435 in 1913, and was
thereafter active in its Councils. He died December 11, 1935; mourned by

180

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

his comrades in the work and by the many members of this body who have
been welcomed by his smiling face and hearty handshake for a score of
years.
From the reports submitted by the secretaries of the . constirent
Lodges, we report the loss of the following Past Masters with brief ention of their special Masonic activities in certain cases:
California Lodge No. 1:
Raymond Hawkins Willcox, died June 3, 1936.

I

Yosemite Lodge No. 99:
Ralph Emerson DeWitt, died November 5, 1935.
Clay Lodge No. 101:
Charles Glenwood Johnson, died September 2, 1935.
Oroville Lodge No. 103:
Raymond A. Leonard, died January 6, 1936.
James M. Park, died May 31, 1936.

San Jose Lodge No. 10:
Alexander Wesley Hess, Sr., died January 22, 1936.

Arcata Lodge No. 106:
Robert Lewis Jones, died April 20, 1936.

Nevada Lodge No. 13:
Elmer P. Gleason, died December 9, 1935.

Chico Lodge No. 111:
Edward Tillotson Reynolds, died August 9, 1935.

La Parfaite Union Lodge No . 17 :
Adolphe Huguenin, died November 4, 1935.
Thomas Sehabiague, died November 10, 1935.
Louis Figeac, died January 23, 1936.

Eden Lodge No. 113:
John Taylor Smith, Jr., died January 23, 1936.

Ophir Lodge No. 33:
Warren Nathaniel Garland, died March 27, 1936.
Archybald Zugar, died April 30, 1936.
Richard Raggio, died January 19, 1936.
Haward Lodge No. 37:
Calvin Levi Gregory, died November 30, 1935.
Edward Montague Walbank, died February 26, 1936.
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38:
Golden B. Falconer, died June 12, 1936.
John A. Taylor, died September 17, 1935.
Sacramento Lodge No. 40:
George J. Calder, died May 17, 1936.
James Buchanan Giffen, died June 11, 1936.
William Durrant Knights, died September 17, 1935.
Harley Howard Stephenson, died January 22, 1936.
Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44:
William Conrad Hacke, died February 27, 1936.
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59:
William Bull Meek, died January 23, 1936.
Forest Lodge No. 66:
Robert Mortimer Foley, died June ·25, 1936.
Morning Star Lodge No. 68:
John Joseph Cavanagh, died August 5, 1935.
George Mitchell Hardenbrook, died October 3, 1935.
Hiram Francis Fontaine Merrill, died September 2, 1935.
Enterprise Lodge No. 70:
' Oscar Lawrence Harris, died July 1,.1936.
b'ear MoU1itain Lodge No. 76:
John Garavagni, died August 11, 1935.
John T. McNutt, died November 14, 1935.
Emilio Govenetti, died January 11, 1936.
Vesper. Lodge No. 84:
Raymond Earl Whitney, died January 10, 1936.
Naval Lodge No. 87:
James Ramsey, died July 16, 1936.

Alamo Lodge No. 122:
Wm. H . Hough, died June 25, 1936.
J. A. Whittaker, died July 17, 1936.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123:
George Theodore Hansen, died October 15, 1935.
La Fayette Lodge No. 126:
Frank Milton Martin, died March 2, 1936.
Visalia Lodge No. 128 :
Albert Ellis Brooks, died October 3, 1935.
N icolaus Lodge No. 129:
James Polk Kesner, died November 8, 1935.
Woodbridge Lodge No . 131:
George William Anderson, died February 10, 1936.
Samuel Eikenbary Latta, died June 13, 1936.
Franklin Lodge No. !43:
.
·
Jacob Beauregard Miller, died April 10, 1936.
Oriental Lodge No. 144: .
Amos Vincent Mollart, died June 4, 1936.
Abell Lodge No. 146:
Hale McCowen, died January 2, 1936.
Eel River Lodge No. 147:
Hornet Stewart Wellington, died November 11, 19,~5.
Elk Grove Lodge No. 173:
Andrew Elliott, died August 10, 1935.
William Edmund Lewis, died January 24, 1936.
Antioch Lodge No. 175:
Otto Emil Klengel, died July 19, 1936.
Petaluma Lodge No. 180:
Glenn Allen 'Conger, died August 19, 1935.
Sandy McFadden, died May 28, 1936.
Hermann Weber, died June 5, 1936.
Claiborne Lodge No . 185:
.
Samuel C. Hunter, died February 20,-1936.
San Simeon Lodge No . 196 :
Frank Sumner Lowell, died February 11, 1936.
James F . Stewart, died March 10, 1936.

181

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

182

183

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hartley Lodge No. 199:
George Wilton Myers, died April 8, 1936.
David Floy~ Mcintire, died November 10, 1935.
Silveyville Lodge No . 201 :
Lester Parker Hall, died January 26, 1936.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
Edwin Lupton, died July 22, 1936.
Olivet Lodge No. 205 :
Richard Bacot Forpp, died April 9, 1936.
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215:
Charles Alexander A!lardyce, died November 20, 1935.
Doric Lodge No. 216:
Jessie Daniel Hannah, died November 6, 1935.
Mosaic Lodge No . 218 :
Stanley Gasherie Gibson, died June 1, 1936.
Downey Lodge No. 220:
Julius Harris Ardis, died July 10, 1936.
Toy Berry Gibson, died January 11, 1936.
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224:
Arthur Hussey Swain, died December 2, 1935.
Solano Lodge No. 229:
James Gee, died February 19, 1936.
Santa Ana Lodge No . 241 :
Eli Brock Trago, died November 15, 1935.
Walter Verne Whitson, died December 11, 1935.
Alcatraz Lodge No . 244:
William Waterman Neal, died March 29, 1936.
Jacques Leonard Vandenbos, died August 2, 1935.
La11rel Lodge No. 245 :
Lucien Maurice Benoit, died April 9, 1936. Brother Benoit served his Lodge
as Master in 1913 and as Treasurer for 1922 to 1936. He was Treasurer of the Masonic Temple Association, was City Recorder for six
years, and at the time of his death was Secretary of the Provident Irrigation District. His loss is keenly felt by all the community.
Pomona Lodge No. 246:
William Thomas Martin, died April 23, 1936. At the time of his death
Brother Martin was the oldest living County Supervisor, having been
elected in 1868 and serving a four-year term. While in that office he
laid the cornerstone of the old red sandstone court house at Los Angeles just recently torn down. · He was made a Mason in Lexington
Lodge No. 104, at El Monte in 1868, was elected Secretary of that
Lodge in 1869 and was its Master in 1873. He demitted and became
the first Master of Pomona Lodge No. 246 when it was constituted in
April, 1877, and served it as Master in the years 1878, 1880, 1881, 1883
and 1890. He passed to a well earned reward at the age of 91 with the
flags of his city and county at halfmast.
John Adam Gallup, died May 4, 1936.
Fresno Lodge No . 247:
Anson Burlingame Smith, died October 2, 1935.
A din Lodge No. 250 :
John Dexter Graham, died June 20, 1936.
Lynn Carl Smith, died November 25, 1935.

Lodi Lodge No. 256 :
G
A drew Keagle died August 18, 1935.
.
Woorgeaco~ Thomayer died August 22, 1935. Brother Thomayer served his
mL~dge as Master i'n 1908 and was a district inspector from 1915 to 1917.
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258 :
.
Frederic Isador Adge, died March 26, 1936.
Durant Lodge No. 268:
Claude Standish Downing, died October 6, 1935.
Arroyo Lodge No. 274:
Robert M. Plympton, died October 26, 1935.
Selma Lodge No. 277:
Bert Andrew Statham, died July 7, 1936.
Southern California Lodge No. 278:
Adelbert Starr Abbott, died September 23, 1935.
Madera Lodge No. 280:
George William Bernhard, died April 3, 1936.
Mt. Shasta Lodge No. 281:
.
James Franklin Bedford, died January 19, 1936.
Paso Robles Lodge No . 286:
William Garfield Gates, died August 6, 1935.
Maxwell Lodge No. 288:
James Warren Danley, died September 5, 1935.
East Gate Lodge No . 290:
Frank Cannon Mulkey, died December 4, 1935.
Traver Lodge No. 294 :
Alex Edmund Nelson, died February 25, 1936.
Mt Jackson Lodge No. 295:
· Walter Gibbs Fonda, died August 6, 1935.
Liberty LodgAe No. 2E99:1' h died Nove~ber 16 1935. Brother English was inCharles mos ng is • .
.
'
l921
·1 h" d ath and
, untt is e •
spector of 54th District, continuously from
rendered a great service to Masonry.
Horace Asbury Myers, died September 1, 1935.
Delano Lodge No. 309:
Alexander Sames Kramer, died July 10, 1936.
Los Banos Lodge No. 312:
Thomas Maxwell Amos, died January 16, 1936.
Joseph Elmer Place, died February 8, 1936.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319:
Clarence Edward Hargan, died October 7, 1935.
Corona Lodge No . 324 :
Lionel L. Bagnard, died April 19, 1936.
San Pedro Lodge No. 332:
•
William Cornelius Hill, died October 24, 193:>.
Covina Lodge No. 334:
Amador F. Coltrin, died May 7, 1936.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 :
Roddy Compton Black, died March 9, 1936.
Carquinez Lodge No: 337:
1935
William Murray Laidlaw, died December 11,
·

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Jacinto Lodge No. 338:
Joseph E. Blackshaw, died April 18, 1936.
Brentwood Lodge No. 345:
Orlando C. Prewitt, died February 11, 1936.
Palestine Lodge No. 351 :
Walter Francis Haas, died February 16, 1936.
Pinole Lodge No. 353:
Abraham Greenfield, died January 29, 1936.
William Berry McKenzie, died March 11, 1936. Brother McKenzie was
also a Past Master of Eden Lodge No. 113, San Leandro during the
year 1897, as well as serving Pinole Lodge No. 353 as its Master
Charles S. Pierce, died December 29, 1935.
·
Presidio Lodge No. 354:
William Leroy Bain, died February 19, 1936.
Buena Park Lodge No. 357:
Edgar Edward Angell, died July 25, 1936.
Golden State Lodge No. 358: ·
Peter W. Garn, died December 11, 1935.
San Francisco Lodge No. 360:
Albert Henry Cady, died April 19, 1936.
Charity Lodge No. 362:
.
Chauncey Hira Whitman, died January 25, 1936.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363:
Charles Hadden Patterson, died 'March 20, 1936.

Brawley Lodge No. 402:
Harry Elmer Gates, died May 6, 1936.
Y erba Buma Lodge No. 403:
Horace Arthur Case, died December 30, 1935.

Willits Lodge No. 365:
Edward Blackman, died December 11, 1935.

Standard L odge No. 440 :
Marshal1 Edgar Hopper, died September 22, 1935.

Las Palmas Lodge No. 366:
David Monroe Barnwell, died September 22 1935.
William Angus Sutherland, died October 18: 1935.

Mo1mt Oso Lodge No. 460:
Alfred John Monnich, died February 8, 1936.

Oceati Park Lodge No. 369:
George F~ndlater ~ruickshank, died February 9, 1936.
John Les!te Herw1ck, died February 6, 1936.
Oceanside Lodge No. 381:
Chester A. Craig, died December 24, 1935.
Highland Park Lodge No. 382:
John Emanuel Gillooly, died November 18, 1935.
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389:
Wm. H. Wallace, died August 6, 1935.
East Belt Lodge No. 391:
Arthur Thomas Hannah, died March 22, 1936.
George Archer, died July 22, 1936.
Apollo Lodge No. 396:
George William Chaplin, died August 31, 1935.
Fraternity Lodge No. 399:
Samuel George Tompkins, died October 13, 1935. Brother Tompkins was
the first Master of his Lodge;
Arthur Burr Langford, died July 5, 1936.
Bay V iew Lodge No. 401:
John Byron Terrill, died August 21, 1935. Brother Terrill was also a Past
Master of Alameda Lodge No. 167 of CentervilJe, California.

185

La Mesa Lodge No. 407:
Clarence Edward Strite, died February 28, 1936.
Honolulu L odge No. 409 :
Thomas Herbert Petrie, died October 14, 1935.
Henry H erbert Williams, died December 15, 1935.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
Charles Duval Akers, died April 22, 1936.
Arlington L odge No. 414:
James Clinton Lewis, died August 12, 1935.
Jacob Bieber, died November 24, 1935.
Inglewood Lodge No . 421:
Walter H. Ulm, died June 18, 1936.
E:reter Lodge No. 424:
Edward Harrison Miles, died June 18, 1936.
McCloud Lodge No . 430:
Mark Elmer Lambert, died November 1, 1935.
Maricopa L odge No. 434:
Thomas Benton Wylie, died November 24, 1935.
Fairmount Lodge No . 435:
Denman Sully Wagstaff, died December 11, 1935.

Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463:
William Geger Rhoades, died February 19, 1936.
Maui Lodge No. 472:
Frederick Pershall Rosecrans, died August 25, 1935.
Benjamin Williams, died August 15, 1935.
Mt. Davidson Lodge N o. 481 :
Harry Clinton Wilber, died September 7, 1935. Brother Wilber was also a
P ast Master of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, Fresno, California.
Albert Pike Lodge No. 484:
Dudley M. Dorman, died March 21, 1936.
Vallejo L odge No. 487:
Ralph Waldo Jackson, died May 24, 1936.
Lebanon L odge No. 495:
George Thomas Black, died July 10, 1936. He demitted to Lebanon from
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8, Sonora, California, the first Master of Lebanon Lodge.
Point Lodge No. 503:
Chester Ariel Northway, died June 18, 1936.
George Washing ton L odge No . 525:
Asa Bird Loomis, died May 31, 1936. Brother Loomis was also a Past
Master of Traver Lodge No. 294.
Cov enant Lodge No. 527:
Josiah Flagg Lyon, died November 18, 1935.

186

PROCEEDINGS OF .THE

Queen Beach Lod.Qe No. 540:
Lloyd Vernon S~ith, died August 24, 1935.
Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541:
Valdemar Arntzen, died February 18, 1936.
Lankershim Lodge No. 542:
Thomas Hendrick LaVelle, died February 13, 1936.
Signal Lodge No . 543:
William Madison Branstetter, died October 7, 1935. He was also Master
of Santa Lucia Lodge No. 302 in 1911.
Glendale Lodge No. 544:
Richard Chew Montanye, died May 29, 1936.
Secttrity Lodge_No. 581:
Ernest Tyler, died October 1, 1936.
Valley Forge Lodge No. 587:
Ed Nern, died January 15, 1936.
Dimond Lodge No. 603:
Frederic Smith, died November 28, 1935.
Provident Lodge No. 609:
August Frederick Brinkman, died August 21, 1935.
Canoga Lodge No. 611:
Samuel Warren Wells, died August 28, 1935.
So2'thla;ui, Lodge No. 618:
Merle Andrew Thompson, died April 17, 1936.
Victorville Lodge No. 634:
Bert Harruff, died February 14, 1936.
Jam.es A. Foshay Lodge No. 641:
Henry Fletcher Starbuck, died August 21, 1935.
Baldwin Park Lodge No. 660:
William Forrest Mahan, died November 21, 1935.
Kcrweah Lodge No. 665:
Harry Franklin Goldman, died July 27, 1936.

While we have thus appropriately paused to pay our respects to our
departed brethren, we can be assured that within the halls of Freemasonry
they learned much concerning that one God in whom they professed trust,
and in the promise of immortality which that profession implied. Thus,
while we continue their labors here, may we not expect them to continue
their growth in the truth upon another plane? May not the parting be
appropriately expressed in these lines:

My Friend Lives On
I am bidding good-bye to my friend at the dock.
With a shake of his hand in a lingering grip,
I bespeak a God-speed and enjoyable trip;
Every movement I watch as he climbs to the ship.
Standing there among strangers I trouble not of,
Is the one I adore and devotedly love,
With a face so agreeably beaming with light,
And impressing on me an indelible sight.
Tlien I stand on the pier smiling back at my friend.
As the ship that is bearing him steams out to sea,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

187

I'm aware that his voice would not carry to me,
Though my eyes still behold him affectionately.
As the hull of the vessel sinks out of my sight
I can scan with my eyes-and with all of my mightBut for proof that he's there I am forced to invoke
The fast vanishing evidence, only that smoke.
I no longer can touch him nor hear his voice.
I no longer can .see him in person one jot,
I no longer can meet him in places we sought,
But I know his existence has not come to naught.
While his journeys may be to the places I know,
Or they may take him places I hanker to go,
Yet wherever that vessel be carrying him
Our communion together has no interim.
It is thus I perceive in the presence of death.
Then no more can I clasp my dear friend by the hand
Nor imagine his travels on sea and on land
Any more than can he join our usual band.
May not he be pursuing the pathway he chose,
With a yearning to tell all the things that he knows
Just the same as I long to reveal unto him,
What I'm dreaming of here, be it real or a whim.
I rejoice in the thought that my friend still lives on.
Thus I may not bridge over the chasm between,
To his new ~tate of consciousness here all unseen,
Since my friend carries on into regions serene;
And where his soul may rise to a spiritual plane,
The while my self and senses still earthly remain,
Until I span the chasm with spirit new found,
He will travel ahead by his body unbound.

May we remember and be comforted by these words of that eminent
patron of Freemasonry, St. John, the Evangelist:

I. John, 3:
1. Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us,
that we should be called the sons of God ! therefore the world
knoweth us not, be.cause it knew him not.
2. Beloved, now are we the sons of God; and it doth not yet appear
what we shall be; but we know that, when he shall appear, we
shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is.
3. And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself,
even as he is pure.
Respectfully submitted,

w ARREN E. LIBBY,
EZRA DECOTO,
GEORGE F. McNonLE,
STANLEY N. McCORMICK,
GEORGE WADSWORTH,
Committee.

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Eulogy
By Lloyd E. Wilson.
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of Grand Lodge:
It is entirely appropriate that there should be a Memorial Service
for.the departed breth~en at the annual communication of a great fraternity
which demands of all its members a confession of their belief in God and
which teaches the immortality of the soul. Because of our steadfast ~elief
in these fundamental principles, we approach this Memorial Service not
as those who weep and mourn but rather as those who rejoice that these
our brethren, who have gone the way which no man may avoid have don '
so with faith and hope and that they now are happy in th:ir Father'~
house, "where God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes-where there
shall ~e neither ~ourning no~ weeping, for the former things are passed
away. If there is any mourning on such an occasion as this, we weep as
men who weep for themselves, because in times past, as we have faced the
death of our friends, our faith in God and our belief in the immortality of
the soul have been shaken, and we have not always rebounded with the
strength of soul and conviction of the mind that would leave us facin
our own inevitable end with the faith and hope that all Masons should ha g
as they look toward "that undiscovered country from whose bourne :;
traveler returns."
We c~me, therefore, not only to honor our departed members, but
to re-examine ourselves, because not only have they gone into the Unseen
World, but we too have a rendevous with death and will disappear.
. The age-old question: "If a man die, shall he live again?" is still
without a conclusive answer in terms of positive proof and as men h
f d h" . .
,
ave
~ce t 1~ 1~timate problem they have tried many solutions. Some have
simply d1sm1ssed the whole matter by saying, "death is the end f II
r£ ,, S
h
b
o a
.1 e.
ome ave een nonchalant and have put on the attitude of taking
it all for granted; others have tried what they choose to call the common
s.ense attitude. and have said: "What must be, must be," and that what
hes beyond, hes beyond-that it will take care of itself and whatever it
~s, we can't change it. Others have said: "We don't know anything about
it, ~nd "".e can't know anything about it, and since we can't, one world at
~ time i_s enough for me." Others have believed in God and in the
immortality of the soul because in all ages and in all places men have had
the same q~estioning and the same longing for eternal life and they have
felt that this call of the finite to the infinite would not go unanswered b
a just and merciful God.
Y
M?st of our difficulty, my brethren, lies in the imagination rather than
.
m the intellect. We can't picture immortality-we can't build for ourselves
a picture in which all of the parts fit perfectly. Because we disappear into
~he u~se~n and ca.n not visualize that which lies beyond, we find difficulty
in believing anything. The trouble is in our habit of seeing only with the
eye: "Seeing is ?elieving" we say, and what we can't see we can't believe.
This effort to. picture somet~ing in order that we may believe something
~as resulted in such fantastic conceptions of the hereafter that we are
h~ely to throw the whole thing overboard, and if we as Masons were to do
this there would be no occasion for a Memorial Service for these, our

189

brethren, who have gone "to that blissful lodge which no time can close."
I want to suggest that the fact is that since immortal life is an unseen
world, as Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick has pointed out, the first step in
understanding it is to realize that we now live in an unseen world. "We
endure as seeing Him who is invisible." There should be no real difficulty
here when we stop to consider the reality of the invisible. We, ourselves,
are invisible. Our bodies, it is true, are visible and easily seen, but our
personalities, our powers of intellect, whatever genius we have, and our
capacity for brotherly love and affection are all invisible. The effects and
the results of these are seen, but we ourselves are unseen. Again the
creative powers of love, of the mind, of the will and of right motivation are
invisible and only the results are seen. The hope, the vision, the skill, the
real force that is back of the results are all visible. Again ideas with all
of their tremendous power are invisible. The results may be seen with
the eye. An idea, plus canvas, plus paint-and we have a Madonna! An
idea, plus paper, plus ink-and we have a symphony! An idea, plus marble,
plus a chisel-and we have a great statue! These results are all visible,
but the real force-the creative idea back of it all-the vision which saw it
in the mind's eye-all these are invisible!
Again, hope is invisible! No man ever saw it, but no man ever lived
long or effectively without it. It is the silver lining in the cloud, it is the
rainbow in the storm, and in the hour of deepest trouble hope sustains and
leads us on. No man ever saw love-love of ho~e, love of family, love of
fellows, love of God, but no man ever lived well without it. And so it is
with hope, with faith and with love-with all the grander, finer things of
life. They are all invisible, but they are the realest things in all the world;
they are lasting, enduring-not only from generation to generation, but
from age to age; in all times and places they are the real elements which
drive us forward, which make us what we are and which make life real
and livable to us.
And so again "we endure as seeing Him who is invisible," and just as
science does not stop with the visible but always has something out beyond
which is the final mathematical relation of the universe-something which
is unseen but very real, so do we who have faith in God "understand that
worlds have been framed by the word of God so that that which is seen
hath not been made out of things which do appear" and the real worldthe invisible world-becomes very real to us, "while we look not upon the
things which are seen but upon the things which a.re not seen, for the
things which are seen are but temporal, while the things which are not
seen are eternal."
And thus in this world, in the midst of much of which the eye may
behold, we really live in the unseen, invisible part of it, and it is there that
we live and move and have our being, and when we go, and when our
friends go into the invisible, they go to "that house not made with hands,
eternal in the Heavens," trustingly, hopefully, perfectly in proportion as
they have lived here in the unseen world. These, our brethren have passed
away, men who in their lifetime as Masons exemplified in their lives the
finest teachings of this noble brotherhood, who lived their profession of
brotherly love, relief and truth and who are not only missed in this
gathering today but whose absence makes it seem imperfect, We shall
delight to remember them over the years in a score of ways, even though
they have gone on into that invisible world to form another golden link
in the chain which binds us forever to the unseen world, where all who
have acted by the plumb, meet upon the level to part no more.

At 12 :20 p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30 o'clock
Thursday morning.

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1f n ~r anb l.obge
MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 15, 1936.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's session were read and approved.
Distinguished Visitor
M.".W.".Byrne E. Bigger, Past Grand Master of Missouri.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE
MASONRY
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report as follows:
As reported in previous submissions, one of the worst offenders against
the sovereign jurisdiction of our California Grand Lodge has been the
Mexican "Supremo Gran Oriente del Rito Nacional Mejicano" of Mexico
City. It hel~ a chartered. group of twenty-one Lodges and chapters composed exclusively of Mexican men and women in California. Adverse conditions, however, reduced this number to negligibility and for a time we
thought ourselves free of this incubus.
. However, now we find with restored prosperity and as a result of
having re.tained. intact t~~ nuclus of these inert Lodges that many of them
ha~e again revived activity although only spasmodic and casually. It is
cla1m~d n?.w that there are again twenty Lodges in existence in California
of this Rite, but your committee has reason to doubt the existence or
·
activity of this number of organizations.
.we find that during the past year the Grand Lodge of this Rito
Nac1onal ':"~s rent by a quarrel which resulted in one faction withdrawing
and organizing a separate supreme body calling itself the "Muy Respectabl~ Benemerito Gran Logia. Rito Nacional Mejicano" and elected one Jorge
Villada as Grand Master with headquarters at No. 47 Avenida Francisco y
Mader~ in ~exico Cit~. T·his. faction appointed Rafael Ulloa Grand Deputy
for California. a.nd he 1.mme.d1ately . began activity in attempting to revivify
the few re.maining Cahforn1a Mexican Lodges. He did succeed in getting
the following Lodges chartered by his group:
Cos~os No. 5, P. 0. Box 1054, San Pedro, Calif.
Pa~r~a No. 35, 1866 East First Street, Los Angeles, Calif.
Os1~1s No. 36, P . 0. Box 665, Wilmington, Calif.

Ben.1to Juarez No. 33, 1866 East First Street, Los Angeles, Calif.
Jupiter No. 9, 1866 East First Street, Los Angeles, Calif.
Granada No. 4, 1866 East First Street, Los Angeles, Calif.
These are six Lodges nominally, but you will notice that of the six
two ~eep. their meeting place in a postoffice box. All probably are pape;
organizations held together by the energy of Deputy Ulloa.
We find that the head of the rival organization, Esteban Ramirzez, has

191

passed _.ut of this life, but the Lodges still remaining to his faction, at
least on paper, are in California as follows:
In San Francisco:
Lux-in-Umbra No. 5, 1356 Ellis Street-4 members. Gervasio
Becerra, Master.
Sebastian Lerdo de Tejada No. 73, 519 Hayes Street. Rafael
.
Flores, Master.
Sebastian Lerdo <le Tejada No. 30, 313 East Tronchi Street.
Renacimiento No. 59, 19th and Capp Street.
In Los Angeles:
Hiram Abiff No. 22, P. 0. Box 2441.
Fenix No. 46, 729 Sydney Drive.
Mercavah No. 90, 4532 East 1st Street.
Urania No. 4, 4043 Hammel Street.
In La Verne: Apollo No. 89, P. 0 . Box 244.
In Santa Barbara: Acacia No. 16, P. 0 . Box 181.
In Visalia: Tenochtitlan No. 78, P. 0 . Box 94.
In San Bernardino: Reconstruction No. 32, P. 0. Box 763.
In Santa Ana: Helios No. 48, 900 East Fourth Street.
Constancia, 306 East Fourth Street.
In Santa Paula: Emilio Carranza No. 55, P. 0. Box 802.
While these number fourteen on paper, six have only a postoffice address and our information leads us to believe that the actual existence and
operation of the remaining eight is doubtful and uncertain.
While the disorganization and decay of the Mexican Lodges was going
on it seems that a Mexican Grand Lodge was organized in the city of
Laredo, Texas. This was formed of three Mexican Lodges which had been
operative in the Texas city. They adopted -the name of "Gran Logia Mejicano del Estados de Texas del Rito Escoses Antiguo Y Accepto." This
Grand Lodge rapidly organized in various parts of Texas, a.nd through the
kindness of Most Worshipful Jewel P. Lightfoot, Past Grand Master of
the Grand Lodge of Texas, we are given the information that this Clandestine Texas Grand Lodge now numbers two thousand members distributed
over thirty subordinate Lodges. This clandestine outfit sent an organizer
here named Mateo F. Flores and he found groups of Mexican Masons who
had formerly belonged to four Mexican subordinate Lodges of the "Grand
Lodge Benito Juarez" of Torreon, Coahuilla, which were known as:
Nirvana No. 8, being the last one; Hiram No. 45, San Bernardino;
Caballeros de Oriente No. 41, San Pedro; Minerva No. 30, Los Angeles.
This organizer succeeded in organizing and chartering this group of
unorganized Mexican pseudo Masons in two Lodges in the south, Dante
No. 34, meeting at 764 Amethyst Street, Los Angeles, and Caballeros de
Occidente No. 6, P. 0. Box 737, Fresno, Calif.; and in the north in the
Bay District, Portola No. 29 with fourteen members and chartered January
10, 1936, and meeting at 57 Rich Street, Ferman Bernal, Master. They
have other Lodges in the state but we have not contacted them.
We are informed through the careful survey and e~orts of our brother,
Orla A. Pratt, that there are no Lodges of this Texas Grand Lodge formed
or operating in the Imperial Valley or in San Diego County. It seems that
some of the Mexican Masons who formerly met under authority of the
Rito Nacional have joined a Grand Lodge organized in the northern district
of Baja, Calif., and this Grand Lodge meets in Tijuana and owes allegiance
to the Grand Lodge "Valle de Mejico."

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We have perhaps gone with greater particularity than was necessary
into the matter of these Mexican irregular organizations, but we felt it
worth while to review the situation clearly at this time as we expect important developments in the near future. They seem to have the impression
that by forcing the maintenance of an organization in California that they
can ultimately coerce our Grand Lodge into extending recognition to them.
They will continue to follow this policy until they are thoroughly disillusioned as were the leaders of t·he Grand L odge Benito Juarez. There is
a circumstance which is working for the continuance of these Mexican
clandestine organizations in California and it is this: When the leaders of
these irregular Lodges fail to get recognition here, they go back to Mexico,
even temporarily, and join a Mexican Lodge which holds recognition of
the Scottish Rite of Mexico and once a member of such a Lodge they
immediately apply for and take and· receive the Scottish Rite degrees which
enables them to come back to California and American cities and visit regular Scottish Rite bodies here, and so they are immediately thrown into
fraternal intercourse with regular California Masons. This happens repeatedly. in San Diego, in the cities of Imperial County and in Los Angeles.
Mexican Masons who could not visit a Blue Lodge in either of these cities
are able to visit the Scottish Rite bodies and to there fraternize with the
Masons with whom they could hold no converse in the Blue Lodges. Some
remedy should be found for this.
Filipino Organizations
The situation with respect to the three Filipino Grand bodies, ".Caballeros de Dimas-Alang," "Gran Oriente Filipino" and "Legionarios de!
Trabajo," remains about the same. We are informed that the Dimas Alang
has moved its headquarters from 839 Kearny Street, San Francisco, to
26 Weller Street, Los Angeles.
There seems to be more activity in Filipino Lodges at the present
time around the city of Los Angeles and in fact in' southern California
generally. There is .o ne in El Centro and perhaps another at Calexico.
Brother Orla A. Pratt, member of our committee, discovered that their
Rite resembles the ceremony of the Scotti.sh Rite, that it consists of thirtythree degrees, including of course the first three Craft degrees. In San
Diego County the Dimas Alang has four lodges, three of these being in
San Diego and one in Escondido. Their office is said to be at times at 641
Sixth Avenue, San Diego.
The "Gran Oriente Filipino" has at least one and possibly three
Lodges in San Diego County, two of which we think are in San Diego
city. We have endeavored diligently to get more information regarding
these Filipino Masonic organizations, but the task is extremely difficult.
For the most part the members are suspicious. Many times the same individual is known by several names, one which he uses among his fraternal
associates, another which he may use in business or where he is employed
and a third ·for his social contacts. We feel, however, that the Filipinos are
devoted to .their fraternal organizations whether Masonic or otherwise and
that while extortion is undoubtedly practiced on their membership it is
not oppressive and is not resented. The members appea r to be very loyal
to their officers, which makes information more difficult to obtain.
In a previous communication we reported that a Lodge had been
formed on the Island of Kauai at Lihue, H awaiian I slands, by the Gran
Oriente Filipino. Brother C. H. Shepherd, Inspector of the 102nd Masonic
District at Hilo, was kind enough to investigate the entire situation of
Filipino Masonry there and we have his report that this spurious character
of Masonry is dead in the islands.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

193

Negro Organizations
The situation with respect to fhe negro Lodges, Grand and subordinate, is practically unchanged. The Prince Hall organization of colored
Masons was known as the Most Worshipful Sovereign Grand Lodge of
F. & A. M. has in certain districts consolidated some of their Lodges
notably in the Imperial Valley and this is probably for pecuniary reasons;
generally this Rite is pursuing the even tenor of its way.
We hear very little of Hiram of Tyre Lodges (colored). We reported
last year that the number of their active subordinate Lodges throughout
California was nine and that these were further reduced by internal dis·
sension which resulted in litigation. We do not believe that there are now
more than six subordinate Lodges remaining of this Rite.
Occasionally we hear of negro bodies belonging to an or.g anization
known as "Most Worshipful King Solomon Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted York Masons National Compact." This appears to be a national
organization. The National Grand Master is said to be S. S. Simmons,
955 \V'ashington Place S. W., Atlanta, Georgia; the National Grand Secretary is said to be R. ]. Simmons, 724 East Third Street, Duluth, Minn.
Some of the state Grand officers are said to be John H . Ralls who is the
State Grand Secretary, P. 0. Box 2316, San Francisco, Calif.; Grand General Warden of the state is the Rev. W . S. Woods, 539 York Street Pittsburg, Calif.; Grand Chaplin of the state seems to be the Rev. D.
Knox,
1430 East Adams, Los Angeles, Calif. ; State Grand Treasurer is B. M.
Johnson, P . 0 . Box 911, Corcoran, Calif. We are anxious to continue the
search of Lodges and officers of this organization if it is independent of
the negro organizations which we know to exist in the state.
Co-Masonic Organizations
There seems to be nothing new along the line of co-Masonry, although
we believe their Lodges are active and apparently in better financial condition than last year. We also notice a .g reater feminine curiosity concerning ceremonies and rituals of Masonic Lodges. We have .discovered, for
instance, that in Los Angeles there exists a school for the instruction of
women in the symbology, philosophy, and esoteric meaning of Masonic
Rites and ceremonies. This school was organized and promoted some
twenty years ago by Dr. Harriet L. Henderson, a native of Columbus, Ohio.
She was a great traveler, and in her visit to France she came in contact
with some of the great French occults and Masons, particularly one Dr."
Girard Encausse known also as "Papus." He was the head of the "Martinistes" or "Order of Elus Cohens" founded by Martines de Pasqually.
This organization was sometimes known as the French " Illumines." This
Rite consisted of seven degrees with a capitular one of Rose Croix.
In 1915 she incorporated in California the "Women's Order of Esoteric
Masonry." This corporation carried on its work in the city of Los Angeles
largely and it consisted of personal and class instruction in the meaning
ritual and philosophy of the three Craft degrees of Masonry. W ome~
only are admitted to the classes which are held daily at 1511 Reid Street
?om~times also known as Menlo Avenue. They make no attempt to organize mto Lodges but content themselves with attempting to explain the
deeper significance of the Ritual ; although their objects as stated in their
charter are:
"To establish, promote, maintain, supervise, ·instruct, control, and regulate branch orders, organizations, associations and classes under the
supervision of this corporation."
There is no concealment about their work as there is a significa~t sign
over t~e door of the building at 1511 Reid Street, "Women's Order of
E soteric Masonry."

c.'

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The co-Masonry which we have in this state is a part of a national
organization called the Order of Human Rights and is a part of an international organization called the Order of Universal Co-Masonry which
admits both men and women. We are informed that in England there are
three main co-Masonic organizations, viz: "The Order of Universal CoMasonry," "The Honorable Fraternity of Ancient, Free Masonry," admitting women but which welcomes men Masons as visitors, and "The Honorable Fraternity of Ancient, Free Masonry" which admits only women
but which allows no men in the Lodge rooms either during degrees or at
other times.
The Intrusion of Clandestine White Masonry
Your committee from time to time is in receipt of information that
other than colored and feminine Masonic bodies are operating in California. ·
We have some reason to believe that an organization known as the Grand
Consistory of Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of the Valley of Boston,
chartered March 31 , 1884, is operating not only in Massachusetts and New
York but we believe has established one or more Lodges in California. We
have no direct evidence of this, but this alleged Scottish Rite body claims
jurisdiction over the Craft degrees and over the entire territory of the
United States of America, its territories and dependencies. Its Grand
Orient is in New York City and the Grand Secretary is Hugh F. Miller,
58 Cedar Road, Medford, Mass. We do know that this organization has
taken up the cudgels for John F. Furniss in Ohio and is undoubtedly backing the attempt of Furniss to maintain a spurious Grand Lodge in Ohio.
Sometime ago there was handed to us from Hollister, Calif., through
the kindness of Brother O'Bannon, a 32° Scottish Rite Patent issued by
an organization known as "The United Supreme Council of 33rd Degree
for the Southern and Western Masonic Jurisdiction of the United Stat~s
of America, Its Territories and Dependencies." It is in blank, is signed
by men with such Anglo-Saxon names as Thomas F. Harper, 33°; Rufus
Williams, 33°; Austin Fitzroy, 33°, Secretary General; G. 0. Williams, 33°,
Sov. Gr. Com.; John L. Gorden, 33°, Lt. Gr. Com. This patent was shown
to a teacher in a junior high school with the request that he inscribe his
· name upon it. The teacher brought it to Brother· O'Bannon. We believe
that this is some clandestine Scottish Rite organization claiming jurisdiction over the first three Craft degrees and probably chartering and working
a number of subordinate Lodges in the state of California. We intend to
pursue this inquiry.
Y-0ur committee has been extremely active throughout the year in
attempting to ferret out the existence of clandestinism in this state. We
are, however, enormously handicapped in our efforts by the fact that it is
impossible or inconvenient for the members of the committee to get together at the communications of Grand Lodge. There is so much to be
discussed, so much to be considered, so many specific plans to be laid and
such great difficulty in effecting this cooperation by mail that we feel that
this committee should be made a permanent committee of Grand Lodge
and mileage provided to and from Grand Lodge for its members.
In any event we feel that clandestinism is not dead in California. On
the contrary, we may now be confronted with the activities of white American Masonic irregular organizations seeking to break into the exclusive
jurisdiction of our Grand Lodge. We would, therefore, respectfully recommend that the Committee on Clandestine Masonry and its work be continued, that an amendment be formulated and adopted at this communication
of Grand Lodge amending Sections 27 and 71 of the Constitution of Grand
Lodge of California so as to .constitute the Committee on Clandestine
Masonry to be a standing Constitutional Committee under the provisions

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

195

of Section 27 and that its members be entitled to their mileage to and from
Grand Lodge under and by virtue of the provisions of Section 71 as
amended.
Fraternally submitted,
WILLIAM A. SCHREIDER,
JOHN ALPERS,
0RLA A. PRATT,
BEATTY,
HARRY

w.

Committee.

The report was adopted except the request that it be made a
Constitutional Committee, which was referred to the Committee
on Policy.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Accounts, in accordance with the requirements of
the Constitution of Grand Lodge, met at the office of the Grand Secretary
on the last Saturday of each month to audit the bills, demands and claims,
etc., against this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge and approved such demands, bills and claims that were found to be in order.
Fraternally submitted,
PAUL NATHAN,
OTTO G. FREYERMUTH,
MAX J. MERTENS, JR.,
ANDREW BURKE,
PAUL BJICK,

Report adopted.

Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has reviewed and considered the resolutions of the various Lodges increasing fees, decreasing fees, increasing dues,
·decreasing dues, fixing affiliation fees, decreasing affiliation fees, eliminating affiliation fees, changing time of stated meetings, excepting holidays as
stated meeting nights, and providing for change of meeting place.
We have found these resolutions to be in order; they have been approved by the Grand Master and we recommend their approval by Grand
Lodge.
It is pleasing to note that there ·is now a tendency to increase as well
as to decrease fees and dues, which indicates that our constitutent Lodges
are endeavoring to select a sound financial basis upon which to operate.
The wording of the amendments shows careful reference to the uniform
code of by-laws upon which we commend the Masters and Secretaries of
the Lodges submitting amendments.
We move the adoption of this report approving said amendments.
Juuus GABRIEL,
THEODORE T. SPURGEON,
bA F. THOMPSON,
bA WHEELER,
CECIL
SKINNER,
GEO. J. ZECH,
OAKLEY K. MORTON,

c.

Report adopted.

Committee.

196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE -OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF BOARD . OF CONTROL

naturai that relief should decrease, too much credit cannot be given to
the secretaries and management of the various Boards of Relief for their
efficient handling and understanding of relief cases.
You will, no doubt, be interested to know that during the past year
there was handled through the Boards of Relief, relief in the amount of
$69,138.98 as against $74,857.07 during 1935, a decrease of only $5,718.09,
which is accounted for largely for the reasons mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph.
.. Meetings
Two meetings of the Board of Control have been held-on May 23rd
and August 22nd, respectively. Both meetings were held in San Francisco,
in the Grand .Secretary's office, as it was felt by the entire board that this
was the .best place to .meet,

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Control is pleased to submit the annual report of its
activfries during -the Masonk year.
It wishes to call to the attention of the Grand Lodge again the earnest
support and friendly cooperation of the Boards of Relief and the individual Lodges.
It· is recognized that one of the principal objects of the Board of
Control is to serve the Boards of Relief and individual Lodges by furnishing information and advice when desired during the year, and particularly
during Grand Lodge, and it is glad to lend its services in working out
unusual problems which may present themselves. The result has been a
very close understanding between the Board of Control Boards of Relief
and Lodges. This has been generally beneficial and h;s also resulted in
financial saving to the Grand Lodge of California.
Masonic Relief Association of the United States and Canada

In accordance with the decision of Grand Lodge, the chairman of the
Board of Control attended a meeting of Masonic Relief Association of the
United States and Canada, held at Fort Worth, Texas, on Octobe-r 30 and
31, 1935. This meeting was found to be very interesting and informative.
A brief synopsis of the proceedings was reported by the chairman at
a subsequent meeting of .the Board of Control and the members of the
board were also supplied with a complete copy of the proceedings which
had been furnished him by the secretary of Masonic Relief Association of
the United States and Canada, so th;\t they might individually obtain an
idea of the work of that association. Th e members of the board were also
shown the bulletins issued by the associ;\tion.
At a later meeting of the Board of Co·1trol it was unanimously decided
"that we recommend to the Grand M<1 "-te-- ·t,'lt this Grand Lodge not take
membership in the Masonic Relief Affrr'· t;on of the United States and
Canada at this time and that this action i ; taken without prejudiCe as to
the future."
Reimbursements
The Grand Lodge has been called upon to reimburse Lodges and
Boards of Relief for assistance rendered for which no reimbursement had
been made, as follows: 1924, $14,854.64; 1925, $16,568.12; 1926, $10,494.26;
1927, $10,366.93.
Board of Control began its service: 1928, $10,214.29; 1929, $7,551.54;
1930, $6,881.67; 1931, $6,486.72; 1932, $4,428.68; 19.33, $2,091.67; 1934,
$1,796.01; 1935, $1,098.64.
.
'
Your board has recommended to the Finance Committee the granting
of the following reimbursements for the fiscal year 1936:
Los Angeles Board of Relief... ...•...........................................$ 60.15
Oakland and Berkeley Boards of Relief .............................. 360.00
. Sacramento Board of RelieL., ...............................•.........•.,.... 30.00
San Francisco Board of Relief........................................ :..... 240.00
Cupertino Lodge No. 510 .........................................-............. 34.57
Fillmore Lodge No. 379.......................................................... 100.00
$824.72
As you wi!I note, this amount is $273.92 less than last year, and the
low~st .a~ount requested of which the B_oard of Control has knowledge.
While 1t 1s a well known fact that conditions are much better and it is

197

Grand Lodge Meeting
During this Grand Lodge session the usual annual conference was held
by the Board of Control and the representatives of the various Boards of
Relief and Employment. It was most enthusiastic and educational.
Various important matters for the benefit of Boards of Relief and
Employment were discussed freely by' those present. ·It appeared to be the
consensus of opinion that much had been gained by thi·s conferen~e.
Boards of Relief
During the year your Board of Control has had for consideration the
requests of certain Lodges that they be permitted to withdrawn from the
local Board of Relief. Such requests come to this' board under Section 83
of the Constitution. We shall not here discuss the specific cases but
merely the principle involved.
·
Whether a Lodge is within or without the same city limits; whether
there may be Lodges in two adjacent cities where no boundary lines may
easily appear is not so much the question. There is mutual interest in the
common welfare of the fraternity in a given area to be con~idered. If a
somewhat detached or remote Lodge decides that it can save money by
not paying per capita tax to a Board of Relief it may not realize Its own
responsibility to its sister Lodges and it may be unaware of the actual
service now being rendered by the Board of Relief in return for the
money paid in.
·
Your Board of Control is convinced that two things should be done in
such instances. First the local Board of Relief should constantly maintain
active contact with all its supporting Lodges, that the officers and members
may know the nature and extent of the Relief and Employment work
being .done, and second that before taking action to withdraw from a
Board of Relief the Lodge should carefully consider its own responsibility
to the other Lodges and Masons in that area and give this equal or greater
weight than the financial obligation involved. Officers and ·past officers
of such a Lodge can properly take an active part in Board of Relief work
and develop a better appreciation of such work and respo_nsib!lity.
Boards of Relief Statistics
The practice is being conducted by e~ch Board of Relief of having an
annual audit of its accounts made by a certified accountant of its own
auditor with the approval of the Board of Control. Reports made on Board
of Control forms, ·s upported by these audits, have been promptly filed by
the Boards of Relief. The following review of the operations of the respective Boards of Relief covering the twelve months ending July 31, 1936,
is based upon the reports of the board officers and the' audits mentioned:
Alameda: Board of Relief is composed of Masters of three Lodges and

199

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

meets monthly. No salaries are paid. No per capita assessment during the
year. No funerals were conducted by the Lodges of the board. No funds
advanced for funerals.
Balance on hand last report.......... - ....•....... -··········-······················-···.,···-$ 62.56
Receipts During the Year
Individual reii:nbursements ........- ..........................................- ..$ 18.74
18.74
Total receipts and balance..............................- ....._.........$
Disbursements

81.30

For Relief:
Individuals-Donations .._..........- ...............- ................--$ 18.74
Total disbursements ..............................................................

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ·············-···-·-·······-············...$ 10.15
Other Lodges in the United States.................. 278.66
Funerals ................................................................ 250.00 $538.81

i~\~~=ph. ·::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::$90<f:~

Postage .......................................................................... 1.50
Printing and stationery................................................ 1.25
Miscellaneous ....................:........................................... 10.00

914.01

Total disbursements .............................................................. 1,452.82
18.74

Balance on hand July 31, 1936............................:..........- ..................... ~----$ 483.01

Balance on hand July 31, 1936,...............................- .........- ...................$ 62.56
Bakersfield: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Senior
Wardens of four Lodges and meets quarterly.
There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives $10.00 per
month. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500 each.
No funerals were conducted by Lodges, under auspices of board.
Balance on hand last report......................................................_................$ 51.37
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ........................................................................$108.4-0
Other Lodges in the United States.......................................... 25.00
Interest __ .............................- ...................- ........................-.........
.61
Individual reimbursements ........................................-.............. 88.00
222.01

Bala~!:n~~l~:and last report.-.........- .............................................. --····....$ 163.57

Total receipts and balance........................................--........$ 273.38
Disb11rsements
For Relief:
California Lodges ...............................:..........- ....$ 10.00
Other Lodges in the United States .................. 101.40 $111.40

Disbursements

For Relief:
Other Lodges in the United States ..................$370.00
Funerals Committee services_........................ 70.00
Individuals-Donations ...................................... 41.00 $481.00
O O•o•OOOOOOo 0 0 0 0 0 0 H 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 •

oOo0 0 0 o 000 0 • 000••oo

o o oO H 0 0 0 0 0 0

15.89

15.89

Total disbursements ........... _................._ ............................$ 496.89
Balance on hand July 31, 1936...............- .............,.................- ..........- ..$

135.00

Total disbursements .........................- ...............................-.

392.00

Total receipts and balance................................- .........;........$ 555.57

Telegraph

1

tai::~f1~~~~~~-·=:::::=::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$i~:~

Receipts During the Year
Other Lodges in the United States..........................................$330.00
Funeral reimbursements ............................................................ 22.00
Individual reimbursements ........................................................ 40.00

246.40

Balance on hand July 31, 1936............_..-................................~ ..,.............$ 26.98
Fresno: Board of Relief is composed of three members each of four
Lodges and meets monthly.
There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives $75.00 per
month. The Secretary is bonded in the sum of $1,000. Fidelity insurance
and compensation also carried.
Funerals were conducted by the Lodges.
Balance on hand last report--·-·····-··-·-···:............................................$ 480.52
Receipts During the Year
.
California Lodges ....................................- ................................$ 5.15
Other Lodges in the United States ......................- .................. 263.66
Blue Lodges ..........- ....................................................- ................ 914.00
Fun.era! reimbursements ..................- ....................................... 250.00
Individual reimbursements ........................................................ 22.50
1,455.31
Total receipts and balance..................................................$1,935.83

58.68

Honolulu: Board of Relief is composed of four Lodges and meets
monthly.
.
,
..
No paid employees. Treasurers bond ts m the sum of $500.00.
No funerals were conducted by the Lodges.
Balance on hand last report........................................................................$3,7@.85
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ............ - ......... ·-·····-·---~......................- .•..$249.34
Other Lodges in the United States ................................- ........ 93.72
Foreign Lodges ............'.........................................- ............-...... 6.85
Interest on bonds (2 P. G. & E. 4~%).................................. 45.00

394.91

Total receipts and balaryce ....................................................$4,104.76
Disburseme11ts
For Relief:
.
California Lodges ................................................$248.04
Other Lodges in the United States................ 77.98
Other Lodges ........................................................ 6.85 $332.87

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

201

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Telegraph .......................................................... .:..~ ........$ 19.41
Postage .......................................................................... 3.50
Office supplies .............................................................. 49.50
Christmas donations ·-··············································· 14.00
Miscellaneous-safety box rental............................ 4.40

90.81

Total disbursements ···············································'··············

423.68

Balance on hand July 31, 1936...................'···························-·················--$3,681.08
Long Beach: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens
of each Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the year
produced $2,632.33.
There are two paid employees, the Secretary, who receives $150 per
month; and assistant, $15. The Secretary and Treasurer and bonded in
the sum of $500 each. Compensation and auto insurance are carried. · One
automobile is used.
Advance for funerals, $176.65. Amount refunded by Lodges and indi:viduals, $170.15.
Balance on hand last report.. .....•....•...................................................$1,606.70

.
Receipts Duri1ig the Year
California Lodges ..........................................................,...........$ 10.00
Other Lodges in the United States...................................... 1,821.36
Local Lodges; per capita.......................................................... 2,632.33
Funeral reimbursements .......................................................... 170.15
Interest ........................................................................................
26.81

4,660.65

Total receipts and balance....................................................$6,267.35

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges .......•..................................$ 27.60
Other Lodges iii the United States ............ 1,803.85
Funerals .............................:.............................. 176.65
Contributed to Employment Service........ 300.00 $2,308.10
Salaries ....................................................................$1,836.00
Rent .......................................................................... 180.00
Insurance and bond.............................................c..
25.00
Telephone and telegraph_.................................... 108.64
Postage ·.:..................................................................
12.00
Printing and stationery........................................
65.04
Auto expense ..........................................................
60.00
Audit ........................................................................
25.00
Miscellaneous ..........................................................
44.13

Balance on hand as per last report.. .........................................•..............$ 3,974.33
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California..............................................•...$ 120.75
California Lodges .................................................................. 6,609.54
Other Lodges in the United States .................:................ 20,684.48
Foreign Lodges ··································-·································· 1,401.55
28,816.32
Total receipts and balance..................................................$32,790.65
Receipts-Per capita assessments, etc.........................·-··················-···· 14,689.51
$47,480.16

Disbursements

For Relief:
Unclassified board work..........................$
60.15
California Lodges .................................... 6,648.11
Other Lodges in the United States ...... 20,794.77
Foreign Lodges ........................................
913.20
Drugs ..........................................................
65.73
Funerals .................................................... 2,664.66
Contributed to Employment Service
and Bush estate.............:..................
700.00
Trans. savings account............................ 2,000.00 $33,846.62
Salaries ..............................................................$ 7,318.50
858.00
Rent, $825; assembly, $33.00 ..........................
Insurance and bond ..............:............:..............
131.02
560.86
Telephone, $445.11; telegraph, $115.75 ........
Postage ................................................................ 258.67
151.66
Printing and stationery ..................................
156.96
Office supplies ..................,...............................
Auto expense ....................................................
531.50
175.03
Travel ..................................................................
50.76
Field representative expense..........................
100.00
Audit ..................................................................
194.46
Clearing house report ......................................
202.06
Miscellaneous ....................................................

10,689.48

Total disbursements ...................................................! , ••••..• $44,536.10

2,355.81

Total disbursements ............................................................ 4,.663.91
Balance on hand July 31, 1936.- .............................................................:...$1,603.44
Los Angeles : Board of Relief is composed of members from each
Lodge and meets monthly.
There are three paid employees, a Secretary at a salary of $250 per
month, a typist or clerk at a salary of $100.00 per month, and a field man
at a salary of $175.00 per month. The Secretary and the Treasurer are
bonded in the sum of $2,000 each. Fidelity insurance and carrier, and compensation and auto insurance are carried. One automobile is used.

Balance on hand July 31, 1936....................•..................... - ......................$ 2,944.06
Oakland and Berkeley : Board of Relief is composed of members from
each Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the year
yielded $5,269.19.
There are two paid employees, a Secretary at a salary of $2,012.50 per
annum; Assistant Secretary, $600. Treasurer is bonded in the sum of
$2,000. Compensation and auto insurance are carried. One automobile
is used.
Funerals were conducted at a cost of $848.89. Funerals reimbursements, $730.80.
Balance on hand as per last report ..._............................•........................$12,637.98
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California..................................................$ 430.14
California Lodges .................................................................. 6,360.40
Other Lodges in the United States.................................... 4,535.00
Foreign Lodges ...................................................................... 1,120.00
Funeral reimbursements ......................................................
730.80

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

202

203

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Individual reimbursements ................................................
Interest ....................................................................................
Miscellaneous ..........................................................................
Local Lodges as per capita.....................: .........- .................

1,314.24
241.21
40.86
5,269.19

20,041.84

Total receipts and balance................................ :...............$32,679.82

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ················-······-·······-$ 7,038.82
Other Lodges in the United States.... 4,556.45
Foreign Lodges ........................................
872.23
848.89
Funerals ....................................................
Contributed to Employment Service
Transfer Fund .................................. 1,000.00
458.00
Funerals Committee services................
10.00
Individuals--donations ..................:.......
914.90
$15,699.79
Individual repayments ............................
Salaries ··············--·-········································-$ 3,810.00
300.00
Rent ..............................................................................
93.23
Insurance and bond.............·-··························
259.86
Telephone, $249.01; telegraph, $10.85 ..........
55.34
Postage ···············'··············································
17.69
Printing and stationery..................................
34.93
Office supplies ..................................................
238.67
Auto expense ....................................................
58.54
Travel .....................................................: ............
49.20
Field representative expense, extra help ....
50.00
Audit ..................................................................
17.50
Christmas donations ......................................
20.00
Cemetery plot ..................................................
26.00
Furniture ............................................................
10.16
Miscellaneous ....................................................

Salaries ····-····-,.-····························-················-······$ 900.00
Audit ........................................................................
10.00

910.00

Total disbursements ·························-····················..············· 2,070.00
Balance on hand July 31, 1936.................·-······'·······-··-··············-············$ 641.12
Richmond: Board of Relief is composed of officers of each Lodge and
meets at call of President.
There are no paid employees. No funds were advanced for funerals.
Balance on hand last report ...........................- ...........................................$ 32.63
R eceipts During the Year
$
Disbursements
Christmas donations ·····'··········..······················..·································-·······$

32.63
2.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1936.........................- .........................................$ 30.63
Sacramento: Board of Relief is composed of three members from each
Lodge.
There are two paid employees, a Secretary and part time assistant.
The total salary is $870 per annum. The Secretary is bonded in the sum
of $500.
Funerals were conducted by the Funeral Committee. Funds advanced
for funerals, $288.24. Amount refun ded funeral account, $401.16.
Balance on hand as per last report............................................................$1,533.75
R eceipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California ............- .......................- ...............$ 150.00
California Lodges ...................................................................... 2,122.09
Other Lodges in t he United States...................................-. 670.16
Foreign Lodges ........................................................................ 398.35
Funeral reimbursements .......................................................... 401.16
Individual reimbursements ...................................................... 113.00
Interest and miscellaneous......................................................
53.89
3,908.65

5,041.12

Total disbursements ·························································· 20,740.91
Balance on hand July 31, 1936..................................................................$11,938.91
Pasadena: Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge
and metings are held as called.
There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives a sal~ry of
$75 per month. The Secretary is bonded in the sum of $500. Auto insurance is carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand last report........................................................................$ 669.12

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California.............................- .......................$ 150.00
30.00
Other California Lodges.·-································-····-··············
Other United States Lodges.............................·-·················· 910.00
Per capita contribution......................................---···················· 952.00

Disbursements
For Relief:
Other California Lodges..............................$ 150.00
Other United States Lodges...................... 965.00
45.00 $1,160.00
Funerals ........:..........·-······································

2,042.00

Total receipts and ·balance..........................................:,·····,--$2,711.12

Total receipts and balance..................................................$5,442.40
Disbursements

For Relief:
California Lodges - ........................................$ 1,176.80
Other Lodges in the United States.......... 659.71
Foreign Lodges .............................................. 353.75
Funerals .......................................................... 288.24
Funeral Committee services........................ 128.00
Individuals- donations ........................-...... 117.50 $2,724.00
Salaries ....................................................................$ 870.00
Telephone and telegraph ......................................
52.58
11.86
Postage ······-······ .. ········ ········-~-- -~..............................
16.44
Printing and stationery..........................................
Office supplies ........................................................
16.85
Auto expense ..........................................................
90.00

Travel
Audit

-----·----·······---·-------------------------·-----------•---·-----··

205

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

204

22.85
20.00 $1,100.58

Tota.I disbursements .... ----------------------------.................. _____ :______ 3,824.58

4.46
81.00
22.50
15.00

1,100.55

Balance on hand July 31, 1936....................................................................$1,(117.82

'\rota! disbursements -------------------------------------------------------------· 5,041.84

San Bernardino: Board of Relief is composed of members of each
Lodge and meets mo_nthly.
·
·
There are no paid employees.
Balance_ on hand last repoi-L......:.............--------------------------····----·---------------$
5.47

Balance on han<! July · 31, 1936...:...........:,...................................................$1,519.05

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ....::".:.............:................ :,...:.........................:$ 166.05
Dividends, S. B. Co. Savings Bank......,.................................
39.03
10.00
Individual reimb'ursements ............ ----------.. ·-----------------'----------

215.08

Total receipts and balance ....----------------------------------------------$ 220.55
Disbursements
For Relief:
. California Lodges· -"-"-"'·'·-.. ·-'"""'--'-'"'--'---..$
Other Lodges in the United States ............

10.00
33.00 $

43.00

Total ·disbursements ---···'·-•--..·---..--------..---------------------------·--

43.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1936......:..................:..........................................$ 177.55
Sll:n Diego: Board · of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge
.a nd meets mo11thly. .
.
-· There is ·one ·paid. employee, the Secretary, who receives a salary of
$810 _per year. Fidelity 1ristirance a11d carrier is carried. One automobile
is used.
c
Funerals were conducted ata cbst of $304.32. Amount refunded, $365.10.
Balance on ?~nd .. as per last report.. ........................................:.........:.....$1;-548.21
.. Receipts During. the Year
Grand Lodge of Califor.nia......................................................$1,974.21
California Lodges ··------------------·-.. ·---· ........................................ 2,625.50
Foreign Lodges .......................................................................... · 44.00
::FU.nerill reirttbit rs em ents. ---------------------..-----·---.. :.....,,:... 365.10.
I ndiv~dual reimbursements --··-----··---------------------------·------------3.87

5,012.68

Total receipts and. balance ....................................................$6,560.89
- Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ••.,::....................................$ 410.77
Other Lodges in the United States.......... 2,570.20
Foreign Lodges ..............................................
61.00
Funerals .:....L ..........•.:.................................... 304.32
Contributed to Employment Service........ 595.00 $3,941.29
Salaries ---------·--·--------:.:___:_.:______________________________________$ 810.00
Rent .............................c.......................................... .. 108.00
44.71 .
Telephone, $40.35; telegraph,. $4.36....................
10.35
Postage ----------------------=-···'"'-----·-----------..-------------·----Printing and stationei:y:.;.;........................."_,............ . .4.53.

San Francisco: Board of Relief is composed of Master or representative of each Lodge and meets monthly.
There are two paid employees, a Secretary, who receives a salary of
$250 per month, and a typist or clerk, who receives $40 per· month. The
Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2,000 each. Fidelity
insurance and carrier, and compensation insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand last r·e porL.....................................................................$ 8,122.20
Receipts, During the Year
Grand Lodge of California.............-------··--------------..·--···-------$ 436.00
California Lodges ................................ ----·-·····-·····----------------·- 4,596.28
Other Lodges in the United States .................................... 3,824.37
Foreign Lodges -------------------------------------------------------------..·-------- 231.90
Assessments from Lodge", interest, etc............................. 5,806.14

14,894.69

Total receipts and balance..................................................$23,016.89
Disb11rsements
For Relief :
California Lodges ·-·--------------------------·-------$4)14.13
Other Lodges in the United States ........ .3,798.56
Foreign Lodges ---------······----------------------------- 179.40
Repayment to Grand .Lodge of California ...............................................,......
85.00
Contributed to Employment Service ...... 1,000.00 $9,777.09.
Salaries .........................:........:: ..:..:......:::................$3,480:00
Rent -----------·-····-----·············----------------------------·---:.... 360.00
Insurance and bond ~ ...............:............................. · 34.97
Telephone, $168.33; telegraph, $12.29.............. · 180.62
Postage --------------------:....:..:......................................
47.82
Printing and stationery........................................
5.58
Office supplies ........................ :.............................
24.33
Auto expense .....:....:............................................. 600.01
- Audit ......................................................................
35.00
M isce!laneous ··--·······----------·-··-------------·---------·······70.51

4,838.83

Total disbursements .......:................................ :.....-----··:·..--- -14,615.92
. Balance on hand July 31, 1936..........................................:.~ ......:.........:....:$ 8,400.97
San Jose: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens of five
Lodges and meets quarterly. Per capita assessments during the year
· yielded $549.70.
There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives a salary of
$50 per month. The Sec.r etary and Treasurer are bonded in th~ amount of
$500 each. Auto insurance .is carried. . One automobile is used.
I"

I

206

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

/

$ 893.99

Balance on hand last report.. .............................................................:......
,

~~~-~-~~~~-~~~~~.:..:~~---~~~=-··········-$

California Lodges ......_,...
Other Lodges in the United States.................·-········-··········

~~~c~~fa~:o~=~_::::~:::::·.::::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::·.:::::::=~-:::::::::::·.·.:
Building and Loan Dividend-···························-·····················

11.92

Funeral eimbursements, ..........................................................
Individua reimbursements ......................................................

125.10
36.40

1,126.25

Total receipts and balance..................................................$1,584.77
Disbursements

1,187.21

Total receipts and balance.........................·-····"""lf-·············$2,081.20
Disbursetm1nts
For Relief:
California Lodges ····-······-····························$ 25.00
Other Lodges in the United States............ 534.50 $ 559.50

Salaries ························-·········································-$ 600.00
Office supplies ........................................................
1.29
Loss on California Mutual Building and Loan
23.84
10.00
. Audit ························-··············································
40.02
Miscellaneous ·······························-····-··················

207

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

----

25.0
582. 0
5

ifo~

\

'

For Relief :
I
75.00
California lodges ·-·--······-················-···-··$
Other Lodges in the United States.......... 513.50
Funerals and flowers for sick...................... 276.59
Funeral Committee services, transporta$1,045.09
tion .........................-·-····························· 180.00

180.00
9.03
10.00
43.84
92.12

Salaries ····-········-·--······_:····-··-·······················--·$
Telephone and telegraph.....•................................
Postage ···················································-··············
Office supplies ···························-·········-················
Miscel!aneous, dance ·············-·····························

675.15

---

334.99

Total disbursements .............................................................. 1,234.65

Total disbursements .............................................................. 1,380.08

Balance on hand July 31, 1936......:............·-············-········-············-········$ 846.55
Santa Barbara:
Balance on hand last report..................................................- ....................$ 212.37

Balance on hand July 31, 1936....................................................................$ 204.69

Receipts During the Year
Other Lodges in the United States...........,............................$ 820.00
Funeral reimbursements ........................................................ 100.00
Individual reimbursements ....................................................
15.20

935.20

Total receipts and balance...- .............................................$1,147.57
Disbursements

For Relief:
3.00
California Lodges ··-·····································-$
Other Lodges in the United States ............ 783.10
Funerals ............................................................ 126.00
Individuals-donations ................................
15.20 $ 927.30
Salaries ··················--·················-·········-···············-$ 120.00
Telephone and telegraph......................................
1.52

Stockton: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and
meets monthly.
There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who receives a salary, including
expenses, of $80 per annum. One automobile is used.
·
Balance on hand as per last report·-···········-:·····················:..................$ 21.00
Receipts During the Year

590.00
California Lodges - ··············-······-········-·-·······,····················•$
Other Lodges in the United States........................................ 860.00
47.50
Foreign Lodges ··································-········-····························

1,497.50

--Total receipts and balance....................................................$1,518.50
Disbursements

121.52

Total disbursements -························-·································· 1,048.82
Balance on hand July 31, 1936........................- ..........................................$ 98.75
Santa Monica: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge
and holds three meetings per month.
There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who receives $180 per annum.
The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the amount of $500 each.
Funerals were conducted at a cost of $276.59. Amount refunded, $125.10.
Balance on hand last report ........................................................................$ 458.52
Re.ceipts During the Year
California Lodges ······-·····································--·················-··-$ 75.00
Other Lodges in the United States...........................·-········ 465.00

Foi: Relief:
C~lifornia Lodges .........................•................$ 215.30
Other Lodges in the United States............ 1,108.48
47.50 $1,371.28
Foreign Lodges ························--··············-:-··

--80.00

S~laries, includes auto expense............................$
Telephone, $4.51; telegraph, $16.22....................
Postage ·····-·····························································
Christmas donations ..............................................

20.73
8.25
15.00

123.98

--Total Disbursements ............................................................ 1,495.26

Balance on hand July 31, 1936....................•.....:.............,.......~....................$

23.24

The Employment Service

Iii~

You
ve been advised of the economies and efficiency of the Relief
Boards. W would now direct your attention to the splendid work being
done by the Employment Service in this jurisdiction.
We pres 1t for your information the following interesting figures from
the records o the last five years, showing total number of _positions
secured; total tost; average cost per unit, and the appropriations from
Grand Lodge : 1
1936
1935
1934
1933
1932

OOOOCDO

ClOC'l:llOlO

-t~.-4...0~

.... 00

0
0

Iii

0
~

0

0

0

Positions Secured..........
7718
8453
9387
9300
11,257
Total Cost ......................$26,917.78 $27,085.31 $24,939.91 $24,373.11 $24,845.79

"'
ooo
00"'

-Iii ... '°

Average Cost
Per Unit ......:.........$

•ot:>i
.,,,....
00 00
.....

...

00

00

0
0

Oci

0

oOCl'i
e-i •e-i.o
eqeq CQ

C'>O

"'
;!

~"If!'°

~

t--00
'°
.... ,.... .-40

0

.,;
0
0

0
0

00

0

g

OO~C'.>

M:')QCOe:l!OHlOOO
00.0000•.000

~~~~~~~g

;......

00 0) 0')""'10')

t.D

aO

.....;

,.....,, "'

~o c4

.,
"'"'"'
"''°I"'
..."' I
00 . . 00

et)oci c.:i

IOO"lflCQOOt--Oeq
O')oeq~oooo t-

c:;iQt.OoOc0....1~~

.. '°I"'...I ...
eq(I')

~

"'

00

00

00
... 0
ooo

....

Iii

00

00

00
.... o
00~

Iii

O') ....

CQ

:i ti «)
e .........

......

"lflOCl':IOC'leqlr.I,....

~CQeqeHO

eqeq . .

t-CQ

,.... 00 eq O')l"'1 '

~~oOiN•<.o

.-CIO CD

,.....,q q eq
"'"'::!. ;!

eq"ci . ..

Q)t-

C'.> 00000

~

"If!

.:!. .........

~~ ~

"'
"'
~ ~
00

...

3.48 $

Grand Lodge
Appropriation ......$ 9,200.00

.....
,,1.,"' ~
..... .,
............

00

209

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

208

~

3.20

$10,300.00

$

2.65

$

2.62

$

2.20

$ 9,900.00 $ 9,600.00 $10,800.00

You will note that the average cost per placement is lower each succeeding year. Also that the TOTAL cost the last three years is actually
less than in either 1932 or 1933. As the service improves the question is
sometimes asked "Are we becoming too commercial?" The members of the
craft engaged in this splendid work believe that to get a brother a job is
the best possible way to express true fraternalism. The only way to do this
is to have a job for th e man.
Your Board of Control believes that up-to-date business-like methods
must be used in operating our Employment Service. W e do not need to
neglect or lose sight of the fraternal obligations to do this. Employers,
whether Masons or not must be convinced that the Service is the be~t for
them. At this point we want to present some forther figures for your consideration. We offer these figures to show how our results look when measured by the usual commercial yard stick.
In the Annual Statistical Reports for the Employment Service this
question is asked, "If your office made the same charge for jobs as a fee. paying agency, i. e., 10 per cent for all temporary jobs, and 25 per cent of
the first month's salary for all permanent jobs, what would your office have
earned during the past year?" Three of the six offices reported that on this
basis a total gross income of $92,809.68 would have been received. The
total cost of operating these three offices was $15,675.39. These figures
speak for themselves.
Appropriations for Employment
In considering requests for an appropriation of Grand Lodge funds to
assist in the work of the Employment Service your Board of Control has
given thoughtful consideration to the needs of the Masonic community;
the record of expense and placements in previous years; the interest and
activity of the brethren engaged in directing the work and perhaps most of
all have we considered the manner in which proper encouragement and
operation of the Employment Service is actually reducing the demands for
relief. The requests from the six (6) offices this year exceed the amount
appropriated in any previous year. In each case the officers of the Local
Employment Service have appeared before this Board and given substantial reasons for their requests. They have presented their problems frankly
and fairly. In some cases emergencies exist a nd the amount asked is likely
to be less next year. We believe this splendid work of the Employment

210

\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Service is most worthy and we therefore recommend the foll wing appropriations for 1937:

~~]·;~~~~=:~~~~~~~ -~~--~~=~~~--~~~=~ -~~ till.~

Long Beach·---------------------·----,---·-·-----------·-------·------···-·---·----------- __ 2,000.00
Sacramento ------------·-·--·--··-·---··--------------------···-·--·····-··-···-·······- ____
600.00

$13,100.00
Respectfully submitted,

s.

EUGENE
!£LKUS,
ROBERT F. CALLENDER,
}AMES R. ERSKINE,
FRANK M. WISE,
FRANK TADE,

Committee.

_Report adopted except recommendations for appropriations,
which were referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Y ?ur committe, charged with the duty of ascertaining cost of transportat10n for one pe~son from the location of each Lodge in the jurisdiction
to the place of me~tmg of Grand Lodge and return, and of reporting such
cost of transportation as the sum due to the Officers or Representatives in
attettdance from each Lodge, as well as Grand Officers Past Grand
Masters, chairmen and members of standing committees a~d inspectors
for their necessa':'y expenditu:es to and from Grand Lodge, report that the;
have carefully discharged this duty. Transportation allowance is fixed by
the Constitution at twice the single first-class one-way fare, plus sleeper
charges where necessary.
!his Committee desires to express its appreciation to the Anglo-California Bank for the courtesy extended through Brother Louis Sutter, Past
Master of Brooklyn Lodge No. 225, in making it possible for us to have the
necessary cash and tellers available to cash transportation checks on Friday, immediately following the election of the Junior Grand Warden.
Following is a statement of the amount necessary:
Grand Lodge Officers.........................................._____________$ 504.52
Past Grand Masters................................................- .....:....
297.30
Committees ............................................................................
571.20
Assistant Grand Lecturers................................................
67.20
Inspectors ............................................................................ 1,944~ 52
·Representatives ..................................:................................. 13,281.12
Tota I ..............................................................................$16,665.86
]oHN H. McGEHEE,
Jos. BLOCK,
BENJ. G. WRIGHT,
CHARLIE P. O'KEu.v,

Adopted.

Committee.

211

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the M .\ W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The fo1towing is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of the
Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc., for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1936:
Receipts
October 1, 1935, balance on hand (cash and securities) ................$102,179.40
From rentals .................................------·--········--·-----····----$44,327.00
From interest, savings banks ............................ _______
148.97
From interest and dividends, securities.................. 4,584.83
From refund on taxes................................................
218.17
From premium on sale of securities.... _.................. 5,802.50
From sale old motors................................................
SO.GO
From repairs tenant's account................................
100.00
55,231.47

157,410.87
Disbursements
Taxes ------------······--·-----··---·-----·····--·-----·--·-----··--··------------------··· 7,732.03
Expense -····-·-·-·--·-·-·--------------------·----·--------····-··--·--·----·--·--·---- 5,920.67
Repairs and improvements .............................................. 1,088.75
Salaries ...................................................:.............................. 10,888.75
Insurance ..............................................................................
305.36
Dividends ........................- ..............................,..................... 6,995.52

32,930.65

Balance on hand September 30, 1936 (cash and securities) ............$124,480.22
WILLIAM P. FILMER, President.
F. C. RUPPEL, Secretary.
Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the M.'. W.'. Gra1id Lodge of California:
With reference to the resolution offered by Brother Mallachowitz to
fix the salary of the Grand Secretary at five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
per annum for all services, your committee is of the opinion that this
amount is not adequate, considering the character and importance of those
services.
In addition to the usual services of the Grand Secretary for Grand
Lodge and as Secretary of the Masonic Homes of California, he has a
.multitude of duties, among which are correspondence with foreign jurisdictions, receiving and entertaining visiting brethren, etc., all of which involves the expenditure of time and money. He is, in fact, the contact man
between this Grand J urisdiction and Masons throughout the world and
therein performs a valua·ble service in gathering information as to conditions and activities of many foreign jurisdictions. The calls upon his time
and energy are numerous and time-consuming. By reason of his definite
location, access to records and data and familiarity with the history and
activities of Grand Lodge, as well as the constituent Lodges, he is a source
of information which is particularly helpful to the Grand Master and other
Grand Officers, as well as to individual brethren. He is almost daily interviewed by members of the jurisdiction as to innumerable questions which
he is able to answer readily, thus economizing the time of many officers
and members.
Your committee, therefore, recommends that the resolution offered by
Brother Mallachowitz be not adopted.

Adopted.

/
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

212

I

/

Masonic Club Houses of the University of California at Berkeley and
. Los Angeles
/
Your committee has revie~ed with great interest the re/orts of the
Trustees of the two club houses and has analyzed the statejl1ents of the
public accountants made in connection with these reports. 1As in former
years, we are convinced that both Boards of Trustees are / exercising the
greatest care in the management of these i!)stitutions. Tl)~ continued interest of men of the high type represented by the membership of these
Boards is highly gratifying to ·this Grand Lodge.
The increasing use of the facilities of the clu·b houses and participation
in their attendant activities indicate that the club houses form a very important and worthwhile activity of Grand Lodge and merit our continued
support.
·
·
In reviewing the reports for the past few ·years, we are convinced that
the Trustees of both club houses have cut their expenses to the minimum,
but we feel that during these lean ye.a rs, more stress has been laid on
economy of operation and less emphasis has been placed on making proper
allowances for depreciation. Of course this was largely due to economic
pressure and the necessity of reducirtg expenses in ·Grand Lodge, and not
to lack of foresight on the part of the Trustees.
The budgets for both Club Hous es, as presented, contain provisions
for depreciation, but ·as the furniture in the Club House at Berkeley is
older, it is likely that· the depreciation aHowance will have to · be used for
replacement, while the Trustees at -Los· Angeles will continue their policy
of setting aside depreciation in cash.
In approving these budgets we urge upon the Boards of Trustees and
future Finance Committees of Grand Lodge the importance of making
proper provision for' depreciation, and of setting it aside in cash, or its
equivalent, so that, when necessary, replacements may ·be made without
additional -strain on the finances of Grand Lodge. We, therefore, offer the foHowing resolution and fl10Ve its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $16,000~ 00 be appropriated from the funds
of Grand Lodge for the support of the Masonic Club Houses, $8000.00 to
be paid to the Trustees of . the Masonic Club House at Berkeley · and
$8000,00 to be paid to the Directors of the Masonic Club House at Los
Ang-el es.

Adopted.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
·· Your Committee has reviewed ·tlie ·repo.r t of t.he ·Masonic Homes Endowment Board for the year just past, and notes with gratification the
Endowment Fund has been increased by approximately $37,000.00. It is
apparent that the splendid work of the committee ·in keeping before the
craft our responsibility in the Masonic Homes of California, and the need
for a permanent Endowment Fund is bearing fruit, not only by cash contributions from the Brethren, but especially by an increasing number of bequests. It should be noted and <;ailed to the particular attention of the
Lodge officers that their efforts in bringing the endowment fund to the
attention of those of their membership who can afford to donate and bequeath to this fund, will ultimately result in the saving for their individual
Lodge of a major portion of the per capita tax now being paid into Grand
Lodge.
It is the feeling of your Committee on Finance that the results obtained by the Masonic Homes Endowment Board justify the necessary expense incide.nt thereto, and therefore offer the following resolution, and
recommend its adoption:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

213

Resolved That the sum of $5000.00 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of Grand Lodge to be paid to the Masonic Endowment Borad
for its expenses for the year ending July 31, 1937.
1

Adopted.
Pay of Inspectors
Your committee has for consideration a resolution presented by Welcome Lodge No. 255 and Hanford Lodge No. 27~, p~o~~ding for the pa~­
ment to Inspectors of expenses incurred by them m v1s1tmg the Lodges m
their respective districts.
.
.Jn view of the fact that provision has heretofore been made m Section'. 56 of the Constitution, which states in substance that ~ach Lod~e shall
pay the necessary expenses of the Inspector as ma~ be incurred m performing the duties of required visitations, your committee, therefore recommends · that the resolution be not adopted.

Adopted.
Masonic Homes
That portion of the Report of the Trustees of the ~asonic ~omes,
which deals with expenditures, is approved by your Comm1~tee on F~nance
after suitable consideration of the various items had been given. While. the
report, as to the cost of operations, reveals some incr~ase, Y?ur Co~m1ttee
recognizes that such increase is unavoidable and not. mcons1stent with the
advanced prices of commodities gener~lly and esp~c~ally those .of !ood. It
is the opinion of your Committee that m all probability economies m other
departments may be affected that will in a measure offset the increases re-

. f"
ferred to.
.
. .
.
"
.d
The report discloses a matenal reduction m the item of outs1 e re 11e ,
which together with the report of the investigator, impresses your co~­
mitte~ that the employment of the social service w~rker has proven a w~se
move. Further development in this department will undoubt.edly restrict
in equalities and result in benefit to all concerned. Reference is here made
to the amount of outside relief for which reimbursement has been made by
the Grand Lodge, and which reimbursement materially affects a balanced
budget.
.
.
The Committee is advised that since August 1st of this year that the
sum of $50',000 has . been paid on . the indebtedness of the Homes to the
Endowment Fund, which, together with the payment of .$25,000 shown by
the report under .review, leaves a balance of $100,000 sttll due; Th~ final
liquidation of this indebtedness should have the constant consideration of
the-Trustees. · .
· . Your · Committee agrees that the repairs and replacements suggested
in the Trustees Report should be made, and in view of advancing costs of
labor and material prompt action is strongly advoc.ated.
.
It is recommend that no change in the per capita tax he made at this
time.

.. Adopted.

Audit of Accounts
In accordance with the policy heretofore pursued by this committee,
it has again employed Brother Floyd F . Webb of the firm of Ruckstell
and Land, Certified Public Accountants, to examine the books and recor~s
of the Grand Treasurer, the Grand Secretary, the Masonic Homes, of California and the Endowment Fund. The reports of Brother Webbs examinatio~ of all of these records have been filed with your committee, and
are now on file with the records of Grand Lodge. The reports indicate
that all records -are correct and in proper shape, all receipts properly accounted for and all .e xpenditures properly made.

GRAND LODGE OF C4LIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

214

Reports of Grand Officers
The reports
examined
b this of the ·Grand Trea surer an d Grand Secretary have been
display thefr usua~o~a~~tt=~d T:b~l~tep~rts hof 31?th of these. Grand Officers
Lodge. Your committee has n th'1 Y m an mg the business of Grand
predation for their splendid w~rkmg but words of commendation and ap-

In reporting on resolution N~ 22 h' h ·1
report, the committee has made dd't', w 11c w1 1 appear later on in this
performed. by our Grand Secretar~. I tona comments on the duties being
We wish to again comment on th
·
h'
is rendering Grand Lodge and th ~services w ich the Grand Treasurer
funds and securities and attendin ~o t~dowment . Fund in handling their
is a service that ·
f
g .
e proper investment thereof. This
G
ts o very great importance to Grand Lod
d h
rand Treasurer cannot be praised to h' hi f
h
ge, an t e
cising in handling the funds and arS :g 1 Y ~r ~ e care that he i.s exeryear he has secured the counsel of a ficu ar Y t e mvest.ments. Durmg the
We are in hearty accord with thi
that renders investment service.

[m

~g thi~ aEdditional precaution in ~:~~;~~v:~~~~~t~o~~er~~dht0 ~or takd
asomc

ge ~n

ndowment Fund moneys.

Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
on R~f!~u~~::ei~tee has examined .the reports of the Board of Control
In addition to thi~ o:x~~~~~:ii~ Reh~ andh 1!asonic Emplo~ment. Service.
the members of the Board f C w~ t~h a a personal d1scuss1on with

1~:; ~:~ ~~e~~::i~u~~:rc~rejii;e~~;;~ ~~~ :~:r~=~~o~~~ ~~~
~~es~~~d~~~
0 ser . . as one. e w1s~ to commend them highly for the splendid

they are saving GrandvL1cedwh1ch they are rendering, and again iterate that
o ge money.
. The
.
Relief
as report
follows:of this board recommends reimbursements
to Boards of
6
Los Angeles Board of Relief
Oakland and Berkeley Board~··-~-f-·R~"ii;i·· ..··-···················-$ 0.l5
Sacramento Board of Rel'ef
............................ 360.00
San Francisco Board of kei·i;£............................................ 30.00
Cupertino Lod e No SlO
. ......._.....................:............... 240.00
Fillmore Lod ~ No· 379·····:··-··········-·········-··:.................... 34.57
g
.
··'···················..·······················-:......... 100.00

w

Total .......................
. . .
.
$8Z~
. .............................................................
...72
e offer the followmg resolution and recommend its d t' .
Resolved That the
f $824 72
.
a op ion .
the funds of' Grand Lo~~:i ~b
. · b be a~d is hereby appropriated from
Lodges. in the amounts as set ou:~:v~~se oards of Relief and the two
Masonic Employment Service

offer;~~: ~~~:'.i!~e, r~~o~~ti~: :~~o~~:~:1:!~:s ~!s t~~o!~~rnd· of Control,

J

Resolved, That the sum of $13 100 00 b
d .
.
d: 'd .an is hereby appropriated
from the funds of Grand Lodge to
to assist in maintaining Emplo'
et B1v1 e mto the following donations
ymen
urea us·
~aa~t FBrancEisco I EmploymSent Servi~e......:.....................$ 2,800 00
ay 1 mpEoyment
ervice........................................ 2,400.00
·
Los Ang
I
San Diegeo esEm:i~y~:~n~e~~~~ce................................ 4,300.00
Long Beach Employment Service........................................ l,OOO.OO
Sacramento Emplo ment Servi .................................... 2,000.00
Y
ce....................................
600.00

b

Total ................................................................................$13,100.00

215

Grand Lodge Per Capita
The Constitution pr~vides for the levying of a per capita of SO'c to provide for the expenses of Grand Lodge and its various committees. As will
be noted by the Budget, which is being submitted hereafter in this report,
the revenue derived from this source, together with other revenues coming
to Grand Lodge, will not be sufficient to provide for Gr:\nd Lodge activities for this coming year. About $15,000.00 short of providing for these
expenses and activities. Our conclusions on this excess expense is more
fully set out in our report on the Budget. It is probably sufficient to say
now that the money is already in the bank to care for this additional expense. It is there, due to the "calling" of some of the investments of Grand
Lodge which have been accumulated in previous years. The committee believes that it can see, within the reasonably near future, and probably this
coming year, where not only this excess expense can be cared for but some
small additional reserve laid aside, without increasing the per capita levy
on subordinate Lodges. We therefore are not recommending the levying
of any greater per capita assessments than that provided by the Constitution, that is a per capita of SOc.
The Constitution also provides for a per capita levy of SOc for the
Building Fund of the Masonic Homes. In addition to this Building Fund,
and the other revenues coming to the Homes, the Homes Trustees have
recommended the levying of an additional per capita of 75c for the maintenance of our two Homes. Your committee is in accord with this request. This will leave the total per capita levy of Grand Lodge the same
as it has been the past two years. Your committee offers the following
resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That a per capita levy of 75c per member be levied, and
when paid, shall be paid by the Grand Secretary to the Trustees of the
Homes, for the operation and maintenance expenses of the Homes.
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
It is to be noted with satisfaction that the number of Lodges that
find their financial condition such that they can not pay Grand Lodge dues
has not only decreased, but has been entirely eliminated. One such Lodge,
being Concord Lodge No. 117, is reported by the Grand Secretary to be
delinquent in this year's dues. We are assured by the representative of this
Lodge, however, that the money is on hand to pay these dues and will be
remitted in the very near future. This will make all Lodges up in their dues
to Grand Lodge for the current year. Concord Lodge has paid the $200.00
remaining unpaid on its dues for the year 1933-34.
The following Lodges, however, are still unable to pay previous years'
dues:

Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469, 1931-32 dues ....................$ 239.60
Larchmont Lodge No. 614, 1932-33 dues........................ 322.95
Humboldt Lodge No. 79, 1933-34 dues............................ 649.50
Total ..................................................................................$1212.05

In discussing the affairs of these Lodges with their representatives, it
appears to the Committee that while conditions are improving, yet the
Lodges cannot be expected to take care of these arrearages at this time
without placing too severe a burden upon them. We therefore offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the three above named Lodges be granted further ti;:"e
in wh[ch to pay the amount due Grand Lodge for unpaid dues.

216

PROCEEDINGS O~ THE
l

Unpaid Loans
The following Lodges still have unpaid loans to this Grand Lodge:
Chowchilla Lodge No. 485......................................................$650.00
Drytown Lodge No. 17_4·····-·················'··········'···················· 470.00
Seal Beach Lodge No. 616................•................................... 350.00
Chowchilla ,Lodge No. 485 had no representative at this session so the
committee was unable to ascertain the present condition of the Lod~e. Due
to this lack of information, it is not possible to make any comment on this
Lodge's condition or the reason for the non-payment of this loan. The committee is of the opinion that some information should be had from this
Lodge as to its condition and prospects for the future. We recommend to
the Grand Secretary that he write this Lodge for this information and when
furnished to forward the same to the incoming Chairman of the Finance
Committee.
The committee has discussed with the representative of Drytown
Lodge No. 174 the conditions of that Lodge and learned that the conditions
of the L_odge ~nd commu~ity are improving, and it would seem if given
further time th1~ Lodge will be able to pay this loan. The loan was originally grant~d eight yea~s ago for the purpose of assisting a very small
Lodge, havmg twenty-nine members, in providing a meeting place for itself.
Your Committee has also discussed with the representative of Seal
Beach Lodge No. 616 its unpaid loan of $350.00. This loan was originally
granted by Gran_d_ Lod~e three y~ars ago for the purpose of enabling this
Lodge to rehab1htate its Masonic Temple after the earthquake of that
year. It is a small Lodge of forty-nine members. Conditions are much improved "".ith t?~ Lodge and in the com~unity. The membership is showing
a sp~en~1d spmt and assure the committee that this loan will be paid in
full m time, and that probably a part of it will be paid this c.o ming year.
For these three Lodges which still owe these unpaid loans we offer
the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
'
Resolved, That the three above named Lodges be given further time
in which to pay the various amounts due from them to Grand Lodge.
Travel Expenses o.f Grand Master
Your committee has given consideration to an appropriation to cover
the traveling expenses of the Grand Master for this coming year. We note
that f_or. the year just c.losing, as well as the previous year, the entire appropriation made for this purpose, has not been used. The committee is of
t~e opinion! however, that no reduction should be made in the appropriation for this purpose. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and
recommend its adoption:
~esolved, That the sum of $3,500.00 be, and the same is hereby appropriated from the funds of Grand Lodge, to pay the traveling expenses
of the Grand Master during the coming Masonic year.
Portrait of Grand Master
In its report to Grand Lodge for the session of 1935, your committee
recommended an appropriation of $150.00 to pay for the portrait of the
then retiring Grand Master. This has been the amount which had been
recommended for this purpose for many years. In looking over the portraits ~urnished in recent years, your committee is satisfied that a proper
portrait cannot be secured for this amount. It is also firmly convinced that
unless proper portraits can be obtained, that Past Grand Masters, as well
as succeeding Grand Masters, will be hesitant to have their portraits
painted. From the best information we have been able to ol:>tain, it wouid
seem that if this appropriation be increased to $250.00, much better, if not
completely satisfactory results, should be obtained.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

217

Your Committee therefore recommends that our retiring Grand Master
the Most Worshipful Earl Warren, have his portrait painted and present
the ·bill to the Grand Secretary, in an amount not to exceed $250.00, who is
authorized to pay the same, and when the portrait has been painted, to be'
hung in the gallery of our past Grand Masters.
Portraits of Preceding Grand Masters
In the report of this committee for the preceding Grand Lodge, it
called attention to the lack of presence of the portraits of the following
Past Grand Masters:
William Rhodes Hervey,
William A. Sherman,
Will H . Fischer,
George L. Jones,
Samuel Edgerton Burke.
Since that time the portrait of Past Grand Master Burke has been
completed. It would seem to your committee that this portrait is unsatisfactory and a new portrait of Most Worshipful Brother Burke should be
obtained. It is also to be noted that the portrait of retiring Grand Master
for that session, that is of Randolph V. Whiting, has not yet been furnished.
We are of the opinion that the appropriation made for the fu rnishing of the
portrait of Most Worshipful Brother Whiting should be increased, and,
also, the appropriation for the portraits of the five named Past Grand
Masters. We, therefore, recommend that the above six Past Grand Masters
be requested to have their portraits painted and present the bills for the
same to the Grand Secretary in an amount not to exceed $250.00 for each
portrait, who is authorized to pay the same, and that when these portraits
have been painted, they be hung in the gallery of Past Grand Masters.
Correspondence Committee Report
Your Committee has had under consideration the recommendation of
the Grand Master that Grand Lodge again have the proceedings of the
Grand Lodges of other jurisdictions reviewed and that a proper review of
such proceedings be prepared and presented to Grand Lodge. Your committee approves the recommendations of the Grand Master and recommends that the incoming Grand Master arrange with the Committee on
Correspondence to make such a review and when made, that the Grand
Secretary print the same in the proceedings of this Grand Body. It further
recommends that the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence be
allowed for his expenses the sum of $500.CO, and that the expenses of printing and distributing these proceedings be added to the general printing expense of Grand Lodge. In setting up its budget, this Committee has made
an allowance for this printing of $500.00. In connection with this part of
its report your committee has given consideration to resolution presented
by C. E. Mallachowitz, Past Master of Caledonia Lodge 486, that this
correspondence report be presented and distributed separately. This would
entail considerable additional expense and trouble. It would seem to your
committee that all purposes can be served by having this report included
in the proceedings of Grand Lodge as has been done in past years. We
therefore recommend that the resolution presented by Brother Mallachowitz be not adopted. Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $500.00 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of this Grand Lodge and paid to the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence for the purpose of defraying his expenses in reviewing and preparing his report for the Committee on Correspondence.

•
218

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Salaries
Your committee has given its usual consideration to the salaries being
paid by this Grand Lodge to its Grand Officers. It is of the opinion that
no change should be made, and therefore recommend that the salaries for
the coming year be fixed as follows:
Grand Secretary ····················-·····-···········-·························$7,200.00
Grand Lecturer ...................................................................... 600.00
Assistant Grand Secretary ................................................ 3,300.00
Grand Tiler ··-····························································-·········· 200.00
Grand Organist ························----········----·········-----····---········· 100.00
Chairman Correspondence Committee...............·-·····-···· 500.00
We further recommend that the salaries of the Grand Secretary and
Assistant Gr;md Secretary be for their services to the Masonic Homes, as
well as for the services to Grand Lodge, and that for their services to the
Masonic Homes, Grand Lodge be reimbursed from the funds of the Homes
in the amount of $18000.00 per annum.
We also recommend that the traveling expenses incurred by the Grand
Lecturer and the four Assistant Grand Lecturers, in performing their
official duties within the State of California, as well as the expenses incurred by Grand Lodge Officers, or members of Grand Lodge, who may
be traveling by authority of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore, after
the same have been audited by the Committee on Accounts.
Pay of Members
Your committee on pay of members has submitted its report indicating that the amount required to pay the traveling expenses of the officers
and members attending this session, amounts to $16,669.28. We, therefore,
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $16,669.28 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of Grand Lodge for the purpose of paying the traveling
expenses of officers and members attending this session.
Grand Lodg;? Activities
It is pleasing to your Finance Committee to be advised by the committee in charge of this year's Grand Lodge activities that the expense incurred for the various functions this year, will not equal the appropriation
made for that purpose. This committee wishes to reiterate its previously
stated opinion that the limit of this appropriation should not exceed $2,000.00. We, therefor~, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $2,000.00 be, and the same is hereby appropriated out of the funds of Grand Lodge, to defray the expenses of the
committee having in charge Grand Lodge Activities Week, for the annual
communication to be held in 1937.
Reimbursement of Pajaro Lodge No. 110
During the session of 1935 the representative of the above named
Lodge was present at Grand Lodge, and the allowance for his reimbursement made by the Pay of Members Committee. The check was not called
for and was mailed to Pajaro Lodge. Due to failure iri presenting the check
before the account was closed, this check has never been paid, and therefore the representative of this Lodge in 1935 has not been properly reimbursed.
The amount allocated for that purpose has been returned to the general fund of Grand Lodge. The committee is of the opinion that as the
representative was in attendance and was entitled to pay that he should

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

219

now be reimbursed and therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That t he Grand Secretary be instructed to draw a check in
favor of Pajaro Lodge No. 110 in the sum of $5.90 in payment of the
amount due the representative from this Lodge for attendance at the 1935
session and mail the same to the Lodge, charging the amount against the
general fund.
Budget
In analyzing the report of the Grand Secretary on receipts and disbursements for the· year ending July 31, 1936, your Committee finds that
the income received was approximately that set out in the budget and that
the total disbursements are $1100.00 less than the budget. This is a very
splendid showing. The total expenses for the year exceeded the total income for the year by $9440.00. This is the second year that expenses have
exceeded income, the previous year showing a deficit of $8500.00. In estimating the income and expenses for this coming year it would seem that
there will be a further shortage of approximately $15,000.00, or for three
years, $32,900.00, all of which has been paid out of reserves built up by
Grand Lodge in past years. There can be no question in the m inds of your
committee that the continued incurring of deficits, and thereby the using
up of surpluses, is bad practice and cannot be continued indefinitely. I t
does appear to your committe, however, that the finances of Grand Lodge
are improving and that this is particularly true of the finances of the
Homes. In discussing the Homes affairs with the Trustees, they assure us
that the per capita requirement for the maintenance of the H omes for the
year succeeding this one can be materially decreased. This of course is
based on the conclusion that this coming year will show the same proportion of improvement that the year just closed has made. It would therefore
seem to your Committee that for the year 1937-38 the budget can be
balanced and some amount be added to the reserve and an act ual decrease
in per capita assessment be made to the constituent Lodges.
There are some items in the budget, particularly the it em of relief,
that are difficult to estimate. Consideration, however , must be given to
these items and therefore the amounts set after several of the items herein
are only estimates. The income and expenses for the coming year are estimated by your Committee as follows :
Cash on hand ....•...........................................................$60,000.00
Less capital funds ........................................................ 55,000.00
Balance for use........................................................................
Dues from Lodges .........................................,..............................
Interest and dividends ..............................................................
Total income
Estimated Expenses :
Salaries ............................................................................................
Printing ··········································-·····--·······································
Expenses-Grand Lecturer and Assistants..............................
Office Rent ....................................................................................
Postage ............................................................................................
Auditing .................................:........................................................
Telephone and Telegraph ............................................................
Grand Master Relief ....................................................................
Outside Relief ................................................................................
Board of Control ...........................•..............................................

$ 5,000.00
69,000.00
11,000.00
$85,000.00
$11,900.00
4,500.00
2,000.00
3,900.00
500.00
150.00
300.00
6,000.00
7,500.00
600.00

•
220

GRAND LODGE OF' CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF-THE

Public Schools Week.................................:................:..................
Fifty Year Buttons ·····························································-········
Portraits Grand Master and Six Past Grand Masters_. _____ _
Miscellaneous ..................................................................................

600.00
400.00
1,750.00
3,000.00

Jn ~ranb JLobge

Total ......................................................................................

$43,100.00

AFTERNOON SESSION

Appropriations:
Pay of Members ............................................................................ $16,500.00
Reimbursement, Boards of Relief................................c••..·•••• ~..
800.00
Employment Bureaus.......................................................:$ 13,100.00
·
Traveling Expense-Grand Master............................ 3,500.00
Masonic Club Houses ...................................................... 16,000.00
Endowment Board ............................................................ 5,000.00
Grand Lodge Activities Committee..........................., 2,'000.00
Total Appropriations ................................................$ 56,900.00
Total Estimated Expense................................................$160,000.00
Excess of Expenditures over Income............................ · 15,200.00
Estimated Cash Deficit at End of Year.................... 10,000.00
As before reported, the per capita levy for the year will be the same
as the preceding two years, that is as follows:
·
Grand Lodge ...................................................................................$ .50
Masonic Homes Maintenance .................................................. .75
Masonic Homes Building Fund ................................................ .50
Total ...............................,....................•...................................$1.75
CLAUDE H. MORRISON,
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,
CHRIS
CHRISTENSEN,
ALTER
BERGER,
FRANK
RUPPEL,
ARTHUR
CRITES,

w

J.

L.

c.

s.

Committee.

Each of the above recommendations was adopted separately
and then the entire report was approved by Grand Lodge.
At 12 :20 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until this afternoon at 2 o'clock.
. · ·

221

Thursday, October 15, 1936.,
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Ma~ter
presiding.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California :
Past Grand Master Hervey, chairman, submitted the following reports:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
matters submitted for its consideration and makes the following reports
thereon :
Correspondence Report
The Grand Master in his annual communication suggested the propriety of having a Correspondence Committee report prepared and pub!is·hed for the information of the brethren. The committee wholeheartedly
joins in that recommendation, and recommends that a correspondence
report be prepared and published, and that the matter of cost to be referred
to the Finance Committee. I move the adoption of the report of the
committee.

Adopted.
Gambling
The Grand ' Master, in a very logical and impressive way, called our
attention to a vice or abuse that has disturbed this grand jurisdiction for
a number of years. It has to do with the matter of gambling by Master
Masons who are attached to or cmi'n ected with or a<:ting for other organizations. The Grand Master has full plenary power over every Lodge in
the state and every Master Mason in the state. These activities, however,
are conducted, or have been conducted, by institutions outside of our Grand
Lodge, institutions in which no man can hold membership unless he is a
Master Mason. There has been no affirmative law in our Constitution
covering the case. Your committee has carefully considered his remarks and
also the resolution introduced by Brothers Harry Carlson, Past Master of
Indian Rock ; Roy H. Parkinson, Past Master of East Bay; John W.
Lawton, Past Master of Hillcrest Lodge, and is of the opinion that this
Grand Lodge should establish as its policy that gambling in the name of
or for the benefit of any Masonic institution or concordant order by Master
Masons is a Masonic offense; and the committee therefore recommends as
the policy of this Grand Lodge that gambling by Master Masons be prohibited in Lodges or on behalf of Masonry or in institutions connected
with Masonry.
Now, brethren, we think you have very wisely adopted a policy for
Grand Lodge.. In order to ca rry that policy into effect it requires legislation amending our Constitution, and the Jurisprudence Committee has
prepared suitable legislation to carry your policy into effect, and it will
present that legislation.

; Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

223

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

222

Power of Lodge Trustees
The Grand Master reported that two questions had been asked him
concerning the power of boards of trustees of Lodges to receive funds in
trust for certain purposes. I need not read it; you read his message and
you heard it. Under the civil law a Lodge of Masons has no capacity to
act as trustee, and it would be a very unwise policy on the part of Grand
Lodge to consent to members of a Lodge acting for the Lodge as trustee
of an express trust for an individual or any beneficiary other than the
Lodge thereof. It is the recommendation of the committee that the.opinion
of the Grand Master that the Lodges cannot act as trustees of trust funds
be approved.

Adopted.
Eligibility of Bartenders
The Grand Master reported the reply he had made to the Secretary of
a Lodge regarding the eligibility for degrees of two candidates. The first
of these candidates works in a local lunch room where meals are served,
and the other is a bartender on a cross-channel steamer. The Grand
Master's comments on this matter raise the whole liquor question, which
has been a troublesome question in this Grand Lodge for many years.
Prior to the adoption of the eighteenth amendment we had a statute making
a man engaged in the serving of liquors as a bartender or the running of
a saloon ineligible for the degrees. That legislation was repealed after the
passage of the eighteenth amendment, in the disappointed thought that
the United States Government would have more power in regulating liquor
than Masonry had.
After the repeal of the eighteenth amendment the people of this state
turned over the control of the liquor traffic to the Board of Equalization,
and provided that there could be no saloons. If there are no saloons there
are probably no bartenders. We are of the opinion that cocktail lounges
and cocktail bars and other doggeries, no matter how euphonious their
names, are nothing more nor less than saloons, and that the only difference
between the new saloon and the old saloon is that men sometimes find
difficulty in getting a place at the bar because of th~ women customers.
The remarks of the Grand Master were logical and fully in accord
with Masonic policy and principles; but your committe thinks that, in view
of the pending legislation which is to be voted on by the people within
thirty days, that the entire liquor situation in the State of California may
be modified, and the present deplorable situation be remedied to a considerable extent, and the problem presented during the coming year may be
a different problem from that now presented to us. For that reason, it is
the opinion of the committee that legislation in addition to that now on
our statute book on this subject be not passed at this communication of
Grand Lodge.

Adopted.
Physical Qualifications
The East Bay Masters and Wardens Association proposes a resolution
reading:
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Grand Lodge that Section 94 of
the Constitution should be so construed and interpreted that the decision
of the Lodge, made in accordance with the provisfons of said section, as
to the physical sufficiency of a candidate, be allowed to stand.
If this resolution is reduced to its ultimate . terms, it means that a
certain law of the Grand Lodge must be interpreted according to its terms.
The law is very plain. We see no reason why any Grand Master should be
told to interpret the law according to its terms. If we legislate that a

Grand Master should interpret the law as he finds it in the Constitution,
he would probably interpret it as he finds it i~ the Constituti?n.
.
The resolution is directed to the law relative to the physical qualifications of a petitioner. Formerly the law required that a candidate be able
to literally comply with the requirement~ of the degrees. :'-fter ye~rs of
discussion the law was "Changed to a reqmrement of substantial compliance.
After the Master has advised his Lodge of the nature of the physical defe~ts
of a candidate, the Lodge by vote can exerci.se a discretion and d~term~ne
whether or not the candidate can substantially comply. The d1scret10n
vested in the Lodge must be a reasonable discretion. If the Lodge is
unreasonable in the exercise of its discretion, then the Grand Master has
the right and the power, as the final arbiter, to determine whether the discretion vested in the Lodge has been abused.
Finding that there is no need for a change of the law, and that no
good purpose would be served by adoption of the resolution, your committee recommends that it be not adopted.

Adopted.
Assessment for Endowment
Beacon of the West Lodge No. 628 submits a resolution suggesting
the levying of an annual per capita assessment of $1.00 upon each .member
of a Lodge within this jurisdiction, the proceeds to be used exclusively for
endowment funds of the Masonic homes.
I would like to divide my remarks into two sections. F irst I would like
to tell you my personal feelings on this subject, and then to report the .
recommendation of the committee.
Last year I proposed an assessment of fifty ·cents per member so that
every member of the Craft in good standing in this jurisdiction would c?ntribute his brother's mite to the support of these homes and thus to obviate
drives for funds the burden of which fell largely upon those few men in
every Lodge wh~ carry on the Lodge and 'keep the fire burn.ing o!1 its altar.
I had another reason: It wasn't my proposal at that time; 1t was the
proposal of one of the best men and one of the best Masons who ev.er
served this Grand Lodge, Brother William Parrish Jeffries, who was chairman of the Endowment Board and who devoted many hours of every day
of the last two years of his life to the interests of the Masonic homes in
raising this fund. He had come to the conclusion before his lamented early
death that an assessment would be preferable to drives, and he discussed
it with me a number of times. And I came here to erect a memorial to
Billie Jeffries and to insure a reasonable accretion to that fund for many
years to com~. And I suggested to the brethren that it would cost them
less per week than the prke of a penny paper on the streets,; that t~e c?st
of two cigarettes a week would more than pay the member s contribution
to this fund.
. .
I would like to see this Grand Lodge adopt a policy of requmng every
Master Mason in good standing to contribute a bit-it would be a small
bit--each year to the Endowment Fund so that he might assist in a noble
cause, and so that the Endowment Board might send him literature thanking him for his gift and telling him about the homes and the plans for
the future.
The Endowment Board raised considerable money this year, a rather
surprising amount under the circumstances of their work, an~ Beacon of
the West Lodge No. 265 evidently feels very strongly that all its members
would like to participate in this work. The rank and file of the members
of the fraternity do not contribute to this cause no matter. how able th_ey
are to do it. They are not Lodge attendants; they are not m contact with
Masonic matters. We have thousands and thousands of members that are

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

never reache? by solicitation, but every one of us wishes, out of our plenty
or our sufficiency or out of such as we have, to do our little part for the
caus~ of the orpha~s and of our elderly dependents, and this plan would
furnish an opportunity for every Mason to participate.
I belong. to an organization that levies $2.00 a year on its. members to
support hospitals. One of those hospitals is. in San Francisco. I have been
an officer of that particular institution for a great many years and have
neve; heard any man complain of the assessment of $2.00 per year for
hosp1ta!s. If such an assessment was levied I am satisfied that in a very
short hme we would all accept it as a privilege to be able to join with
all of o~r brethr_e~ in doing a real job in a thorough way l
It ~s the o~in10n of your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
that this year 1s not an opportune time to adopt the policy of levying an
assessment, and we recommend that at this communication no such assessment be levied.

Adopted. ·
Teaching Esoteric Work
'I_'ehama 1:-odge No. 3 submits a resolution that the present plan of
te~ch~ng the ritual be perpetuated by the Grand Lodge, and that the Conshtutton be amended to make its adoption possible.
.
And S;i,c~amento Lods:e .No. 40, with certain "whereases"-and for the
sake .of brev1~y I am om1ttmg them-resolved that the present plan of
teaching the ritual be perpetuated and the Constitution amended
A?d the Officers Association of the 104th Masonic District, c~mprising
Phoenix Lo_dge . at San . Bernardino, Damascus Lodge, and Victorville
!--odg_e s_ub~1! t?1s resolution: "Resolved, That the office of Grand Lecturer
m t~1s JUrtsd1ct1on, as formerly. occupied by the late Thomas J. Baker, be
continued that we may have uniformity in the ritualistic Masonic work."
. After t?~ death of Brother Baker this Grand Lodge adopted a resolution providing ,that the Grand Lecturer elected should appoint assistant
Grand Lecturers,_ and they set up a method of teaching the work. That
method has. been in vogue now for two years. It is still in the experimental
stage. As is shown -~Y the results of the quesfionnaire sent out by the
Gr.'.l~d ~aste.r, there 1~ ~o .u~animity of opinion or no large majority of .
op1111on in this grand Jurisdiction at the present time relative to merits of
~he two syste~s. That being the case, it appears to your committee that
it would be wise and prudent for Grand Lodge to continue the laboratory
tests, to continue _the experiment for at least another year, so that we may
have a? opportunity · to become fairly solidified in one opinion or the other
-:-a paid lecturer of the Tom _Baker type, or a grand lecturing system of .
the pres~nt type. Your committee has no recommendation to make as to
the merits of the systems and no recommendation to make that either
system be adopted. But on the other hand, it does recommend that the
pre~ent system be continued and that the matter remain in status quo
until the next annual communication of this Grand Lodge.

Recommendation adopted.
Grand Lodge at Sacramento
. Your C.o~mittee on Policy and General Purposes has before it a resolution prov~ding for the annual communication of Grand Lodge in 1939
to be held in Sacramento. The resolution has been endorsed by eighteen
Lodges. Among the reasons urged for such action are the location in
S~cramento of the five oldest Lodges in the jurisdiction, and that 1939
will mark the one hundredth anniversary of the founding of the cit of
Y
Sacramento.
Your committee is of the opinion that the meeting place of Grand

225

Lodge should not be removed unless the circumstances are exceptional and
the reasons persuasive. The proponents of this resolution stated that they
desired to have Grand Lodge meet in Sacramento in 1949 to celebrate the
one hundredth anniversary of the founding of this Grand Lodge and they
desired no action taken .t hat might have a tendency to defeat or to jeopardize the holding of Grand Lodge in Sa·c ramento in that year. For this
reason they expressed a willingness that the resolution be not adopted at
this time.
Your committee deems it most appropriate that the centennial celebration of this Grand Lodge be held in Sacramento in 1949, but is of the
opinion that it should not at this time recommend that the annual communication of 1939 be held in Sacramento and recommends that the resolution be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Your committee has given consideration to a resolution of Brother
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master of Argonaut ·Lodge, praying that the
regulation relating to the use of the name Masonic in business be amended
to read as follows:
.
.
"That no cemetery, crematorium, columbarium, mausoleum or burial
association shall use the name Masonic as part of the style and title or
designatidn of its business, except one conducted wholly by Masons and
used only for the interment of the remains of Masons or members of their
families. Associations or business firms unable to qualify with .this regulation· must delete the word Masonic within ninety days after adoption of
this regulation."
Also resolutions of Washington Lodge No. 20, Tehama Lodge No. 3,
Union Lodge No. 58, Sacramento Lodge No. 40, and Concord Lodge No .
117, protesting the adoption of this resolution.
Your committee does not find that there is at this time any good
reason for the adoption of said resolution, and is of the opinion that a
portion of the terms of said resolution are not consonant with either the
civil law or Masonic policy, and therefore recommends that said resolution
be not adopted.
·

Recommendation adopted.
Distribution of Correspondence Report
Brother Mallachowitz of Caledonia Lodge submitted a resolution providing that the report of the Correspondence Committee be printed and
distributed separately, with two copies for each Lodge. The report is
printed in the proceedings and each Lodge is furnished copies thereof. In
the interests of economy your committee believes that this resolution should
be disapproved and so recommends.

Adopted.
Form of Dimit
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 submits a resolution in two parts, the first
befog for an amendment of our form of <limit so that ·it will show the date
of initiation, passing and raising and name and location of the Lodge.
The second part proposes that, through the National Grand Masters'
and Grand Secretaries' Conference and other proper channels, the grand
jurisdictions of the United States be asked to take like action.
The committee feels that the first part of this proposal is satisfactory
and that there can be no objection to putting the information on <limits, and
we recommend that it be adopted.
As to the second part of the resolution, it appears to your committee
that our Grand Lodge should not by le.g islation attempt to influence the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

226

legislation of our sister grand jurisdictions. We therefore recommend that
the second part of this proposal be disapproved.

Adopted.
Date of Annual Elections
Brother Winthrop L. Keen of Loyalton Lodge, and other brethren
from the northeast section of our grand jurisdiction, appeared before your
committee asking the right to hold the stated meeting for the election of
officers in certain Lodges in that area in the month of November instead
of the month of December. They represented that the Lodges are in the
mountains and that travel in December is dangerous, or prohibitive, because
of the snows ; that many of the brethren are virtually snowed in at the time
required by our Constitution for the annual election; that many members
reside at a ·considerable distance from the Lodge and, because of that fact,
are prohibited from attending the annual meeting.
Your committee recommends that the Constitution be amended to
permit Loyalton Lodge, and other Lodges so circumstanced, to hold the
annual meeting in November instead of December.

Adopted, and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Presentation to Retiring Masters
York Lodge No. 423 proposes an amendment to Section 88 prohibiting
the practice of subordinate Lodges presenting retiring Masters with Past
Master's jewels, and as a substitute for such testimonials proposes that
Grand Lodge issue a life membership certificate to each retiring Master.
As a matter of fact, every Past Master is a life member of the Grand ·
Lodge of California so long as he is in good standing in his Lodge. The
same is true of his rank in his own Lodge. We see no purpose or point" in
having such a certificate. Moreover, we are of the opinion that we should
not interfere with Lodges in this matter of jewels. We therefore recommend that the proposed amendment be not adopted.

Adopted.
Relief
Past Grand Master Will H. Fischer for the Committee on Policy presented the following reports:
Brother Mallachowitz presented a Constitutional amendment in 1935
which has not been acted upon. The proposal is that the obligation which
is incumbent upon every Lodge as to relief be modified so as to require
that a Lodge grant relief in so far as it may do so without serious injury
to itself.
The subject of relief seems to run into a .great deal of our law. It is
all through our ritual; it , is one of the principal tenets; it is in our ceremonials and installation, and our committee felt that it would require quite
a little job of going over the Constitution and ceremonies to make much
change in relief provisions. Past Grand Master Hervey has agreed to do
that work and bring in a report on relief at our next annual communication.
We therefore recommend that no action be taken ori this proposal at
this time.

Adopted.
For the same reason we move that no actiori be taken on Brother
Mallachowitz' proposal or his resolution that a committee be appointed to
study and evolve ways and means of negotiating with other jurisdictions
so we are not without redress in cases of relief of brethren of other jurisdictions when Lodges ask authority to help and are not answered, or, if
answered, are told the Lodge hasn't the funds, and ~hat the jurisdiction

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

227

should in such case assume the cost. For the same reason, we feel that
that should go through the mill on a revision of the language relative to
relief, and we recommend that no action be taken at this time. In connection with this resolution it should be noted that for eleven years the Board
of Control has dealt very satisfactorily with the problems Brother Mallac.howitz has in inind and has increased refunds for relief given by about
80 per cent.

Adopted.
A Shorter Roll Call
At the 1935. annual communication the Grand Secretary proposed a
Constitutional amendment to shorten the roll call at Grand Lodge sessions.
He would amend Section 22 to read as follows :
"Each Lodge represented by a Master, Warden, Past Master or
Representative duly elected shall be entitled to one vote."
The committee believed that there would be no infringement of the
rights and prerogatives of any Lodge by having the brethren get together
and cast their vote through the Master or principal representative present;
that it would save quite a lot of time. We therefore recommend the adoption of this amendment.

Grand Lodge concurred in the report, and the resolution was
referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence. On the coming in
of that committee's report, the proposed amendment failed of
adoption.
·
Propriety of Purchase of a Building in Which Liquor Is Sold
The Grand Master in his message stated that he had been asked by
one of the Lodges as to. the propriety of its purchase of a building for a
meeting place, a portion of the building being used for a poolroom and the
sale of liquor being operated in a lawful manner and licensed, and so forth.
The Lodge wanted to know as to the propriety of purchasing the building
under those conditions. The tenant had a lease on it, probably to run for
some time. The Grand Master said that, in his opinion, the propriety of
purchasing a building for a Masonic meeting place under those conditions
was very questionable, and he advised that it be not done. That section of
his message was referred to our committee, and we recommend that the
opinion stated by the Grand Master be approved.

Adopted.
Pictures of Past Masters
It seems that at the last communication Grand Lodge authorized the
purchase with Lodge funds of pictures of Past Masters. That authorization was made in a case where the pictures were to be placed in a fireproof
safe to be used in the event the originals were lost. The Grand Master
was asked whether it was now permissible to use Lodge .funds to purchase
the pictures of Past Masters to be hung in the anteroom of the Lodge. He
replied to them that there was no distinction between having them for
safe keeping in the vault and having them for safe keeping in the anteroom
of a Lodge room ; that if it was proper in one case it was proper in the
other. The committee recommends that the opinion of the Grand Master
be approved.

Adopted.
Honorary Titles
A Lodge desires to recognize the unique and valuable service rendered by a brother who is the founder and first Master of the Lodge and
wishes to confer upon him the title "Worshipful Master Emeritus." The

228

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

felt that any u:cursions into fields of political action by Masonry would
be a mistake. These matters doubtless concern every one of us, but there
are many patriotic societies and agencies of other kinds that seem better
adapted to carry on the war against radicalism than Masonry is. We
therefore recommend that this resolution be not adopted.

Grand Mas.ter ruled that no express authorization was found in· the Constitution or in the Uniform Code for the conferring of any such title. The
matter was then referred to our committee and we recommend that the
position taken by the Grand Master be approved.

Adopted.
Subversive Influences
The following resolution, signed by Eugene J. Ralston, Senior Warden,
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569; Olof E. Anderson, Past Master, Fortitude
Lo.d~e No. 624; James S. Drummond, Past Master, Eden Lodge No. 113;
. W1ll1am F. Fraser, Worshipful Master, Alpha Lodge No. 431; Robert B.
Gaylord, Jr., Junior Warden, Oakland Lodge :No. 188; Joseph R. Haney,
Ju.nior Warden, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244; John W. Lawton, Past Master,
H1llcrest Lodge No. 573; Francis G. Tallman, Worshipful Master, Piedmont Lodge No. 521, was submitted to your committee:
"Whereas, There exists today, in our country and throughout the world
a spirit .of unrest which has manifested itself in moral social and economi~
philosophies at variance with the fundamentals expr~ssed i~ the tenets of
a well ordered society and in the cardinal principles of Freemasonry'; and
"Whereas, There are various influences tending to create a condition of
social and economic chaos inimical to the welfare of all people; and
"Whereas, Revolutionary propaganda and subversive theories and doctrines are being released throughout the nation and are making serious
inroads into social, civic, educational, fraternal and economic realms in the
United States; and
'
"Whereas, There are increasing numbers of those in our land who
would by unlawful means overthrow our Constitutional Democracy and
·destroy our fundamental liberties; and
"Whereas, True · freedom and the orderly progress of Constitutional
thought are being undermined by fomen•e rs of strife, upheaval, and chaos,
and by appeals to race prejudices and c:ass hatreds; and
. . ~·w~reas, Our spiritual order is be'. 11g <!Hacked by atheism and ungodliness with the evident aim in view of destroying the church and the ethical
teachings o.f religious and Masonic ins,tit~tib~s; ·
"Now therefore be it resolved, That the ~rand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Califo(nia !!Pall energetically promote and
definitely enter into activities having for their purpose the combating of
subversive influences; and
,
.
"Be it further resolved, That the Gran·d Master for the ensuing term
shall immediately appoint a committee to evolve a suitable plan to put the
foregoing into effect; and
·
·
. . "Be it further resolved, That this Grand Lodge call upon every Mason
actively to oppose the advocacy in America of all movements contrary to
the democratic principles established under the Constitution of the United
States of America."
This resolution means substantially that we attack very definitely the
matter of sub"."ersive activities; that we attempt through our Lodges to
.spread education, and that we denounce in an active, concerted way,
through the machinery of our Order, all such isms as Nazism Fasdsm
Communism or other isms contrary to the democratic principles ~stablish.ed
under the Constitution of the United States proposing to subvert the foundations of. our government. The resolution is important. The opinion of
our committee was opposed to the adoption of this resolution on the ground
that our function and our field qf operation are fraternal, moral, benevolent
and uplifting in general, and from time immemorial Masonic leaders have

229

Grand Lodge did not concur in the recommendation, and
adopted the resolutions.
Pay of Representatives
Past Grand Master William Rhodes Hervey, for the Committee on Policy,
resumed the reports Of the committee:
Brother Mallachowitz of Caledonia Lodge submits a resolution providing that the Grand Treasurer shall pay to the representatives attending
the Grand Lodge communication the actual expenses of transportation to
and from the communication, based upon a statement filed with the Committee on Pay of Members. The pay of members is on the basis of the
cost of transportation by usual routes and your committee is of the opinion
that the present standard is just and proper. The. committee recommends
that the resolution be not adopted.

Adopted.
Time of Payment to Representatives
Brother Mallachowitz of Caledonia Lodge submits a resolution providing that the checks for the payment of expenses be not delivered until
after the installation of the newly elected grand officers. The theory behind
this resolution probably is that a lot of us should attend installation, but
do not, and that the pay car should not be opened until after installation.
The committee recommends that the resolution be not adopted.

Adopted.

'

Tenure of Office of Grand Secretary
Brother Mallachowitz of Caledonia Lodge submits a resolution that the
term of the Grand Secretary be fixed at six years, and that · he shall pot
be eligible for re-election. The committee recommends that the resolution
be not adopted.

Adopted.
Registration When Traveling
Brother Gray of Florence Lodge proposes legislation requmng that
members of Lodges in the jurisdiction, when leaving the city or locality
in which they reside, particularly .when they are in other jurisdictions,
register in a Masonic Lodge in the locality or city where they happen to
be sojourning, and provided that the Tiler be furnished with a book of
registry, and also suggests that efforts be made to secure the same type of
legislation in other jurisdictions. We recommend that the resolution be
not adopted.

Adopted.
Time Limit on Dim.its
The Master of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 proposes legislation providing
that <limits shall be valid for only a limited period after issuance; that
after the expiration, if the holder desires to apply to some Lodge for
membership he must take the degrees again. He also suggests that the
same residence qualifications should be enforced as to applkants for affiiliation as are now applicable to petitioners for .degrees. Your committee recommends the disapproval of the proposition.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

230

Life Membership· Funds
Brother Charles R. Cooper, Past Master of Presidio Lodge No. 354,
has presented a resolution relating to life membership funds, and Brother
Somers of Military Service Lodge No. 571 has also presented a resolution
on that subject. Both resolutions propose legislation to the end that the
life membership funds should not be perpetual, but 'Could be withdrawn in
whole or in pa,rt by the Lodge for its expenses when it needs funds. In
other words, the proposals are to destroy the requirements now in our law
that life membership funds are perpetual funds and cannot be used for any
purpose except to earn income for the Lodge. The committee is of the
opinion that those funds are not earned by a Lodge at the time the life
membership is taken out, nor are they earned by the Lodge at any time
during the member's life. Those funds are to pay a member's dues. They
do not ordinarily realize to the Lodge an income that is as large as the
dues; there is a loss to the Lodge in dues every year.. That loss is made
up by the fact that the fund is permanent and no part is paid out at the
time of death of a life member. It is not an earned fund; it is earning
money for the Lodge every year and is a trust fund and should not be
dissipated. We recommend that the resolutions be not adopted.

Grand Lodge concurred.
Brother Leo Bruck proposes that Section 87 of the Constitution, beginning with "all investments of funds" to and inclusive of " reputable bank or
banks" be repealed and the following be substituted: "All investments of
funds (except life membership funds, the investment of which is prescribed
by Section 129) by a Lodge shall be through trustees elected by the
Lodge, who shall invest such funds in securities or property to best of
their judgment, with the consent of the Lodge."
The present law requires that the investments be made by deposit in
bank or in securities which are legal investments for savings banks in
California or Hawaii. Brother Bruck proposes that investments of funds
be left to the sound discretion of the trustees of the Lodge. Your committee recommends that the resolution be not adopted.

Adopted.
Brother Bruck proposes that Section 129 be repealed-that has to do
with the investment of life membership funds-and substitute the following: "All amounts paid for life membership shall be deposited in some
reputable bank, or invested in first class securities according to the best
judgment of the trustees with the consent of the Lodge, and only the
income thereof shall be used by the Lodge, the original amounts to be
forever kept and maintained as and for a permanent life membership fund."
The committee recommends that the resolution be not adopted.

Adopted.
Brother Cooper writes that owing to the lack of uniformity in accounting of the business of Blue· Lodges, most respectfully submits the following
resolution:.
"Resolved, That the Most Worshipful Grand Master appoint a committee to work up a manual governing the conduct of all busin~ss at stated
meetings, and the necessary funds for its publication and distribution is
hereby authorized." .
The Constitution provides the order of business for stated meetings.
If there is a real .demand for a manual, it should be prepared and published. The committee recommends that the Grand Secretary prepare such
a manual if, in his judgment, there is a demand for it and it is needed, and

231

that the matter be referred to the Finance Committee for an appropriation for such publication if in the fu ture the Grand Secretary decides to
publish it.

Adopted, and referred to the Committee on !inance.
Change of Meeting Place
Chester L. Warlow, Assistant Grand Lecturer, submits a resolut!on
that Sections 78 and 93 of the Constitution be amended in the following
manner:
Sec. 78. (The fifth sentence to read): The Lodge mus t b.e opened in
the place fixed by its charter or dispensation and at .the app?int.ed Lodge
room therein, except as provided in S~ction 93 of this Constitution, wheQ
the Lodge may be opened at the appointed place.
Sec. 93. (Last sentence): Provided, however, a special meeting of .a
Lodge for degree work only may be held in the Lodge r oom at the Masomc
Home at Decoto, or the Grand Master may grant dispensation to a L odge
to hold a special meeting for degree work at a place other than the regular
meeting place of the Lodge, subject to such restrictions an? n~tice to
the brethren of the 'Lodge as the Grand Master may prescribe in such
dispensation.
.
The purpose of the amendment is to give the Gra~d Mast:r t~e nght
to issue a dispensation for a Lodge to meet for a special meeting in some
place other than its Lodge room under proper conditions. We recommend
the adoption of the resolution.

Report adopted, referred to the Committee ?n Jurisprudence,
by which committee it was approved, a~d Sections 78 and 93 of
the Constitution were amended by unanimous vote.
Creation of R itual Committee
The Ritual Committee made a report to this Grand L odge, which report was referred t o the Committe~ on Policy ~nd General ~urposes: It
contained a proposal that a resolution adopted m 1910 creating a Ritual
Committee be changed and proposed the following resolution to take
its place:
"Resolved That the Ritual Committee shall 'COnsist of five members,
as follows: The Grand Lecturer, and four Assistant Grand Lecturers who
shall be appointed by the Grand Master, each of whom shall, before entering upon his duties, produce a certificate from the Grand Lecturer that ~e
is proficient in the work and lectures adopted by the Gra~d Lodge and ts
qualified to act as Assistant Grand Lecturer. The committee as so composed from time to time shall be custodian of the esoteric work."
There is at the present time a Ritual Committee of three, but now
there are five ritualists actually engaged in the service of the Grand Lo.dge.
The purpose of this resolution is to appoint these five o? the committee
rather than have two non-ritualistic workers on the committee. The Co.mmittee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that the resolution
be adopted.

Adopted.
Masonic Hospitals
Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625 subm its a resolution for .the app?int?1~nt
of a special committee to investigate t he matter of erectl?g, mamtam1~g
and carrying on two Masonic hospitals-one in San Francisco and one in
Los Angeles-and that the Grand Master be dir.ect~d to appoint s~c.h. a
committee, to report at the next annual commumcation on the feas1bihty

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

232

ROCEEDINGS OF THE

of establishing such hospitals or the establishing of Masonic wards in
existing hospitals.
Hospitals cost a great deal of money. Our Grand Lodge should not
undertake such an activity, and we recommend that the resolutions be
. not adopted.

The recommendation of the committee failed of adoption, and
the resolution was adopted.
Clandestine Masonry
Brother Schreider of the Committee on Clandestine Masonry proposes
that the Special Committee on Clandestine Masonry be changed to a standing committee, a constitutional committee; and we recommend that as a
matter of policy the committee be made a standing committee and the
matter be referred to the Jurisprudence Committee for legislation. The proposed amendments are as follows:
Sec. 27. The following standing committees shall be appointed by the
Grand Master at each annual communication just before the close, viz.: On
Finances, On Accounts, On Grievances, On Correspondence, on Returns,
On Pay of Members, On Credentials, On Library, On By-Laws, On
Charters, On Clandestine Masonry, On Grand Lodge Week Activities, to
consist of five members each; On General Policy and Purposes, and On
Jurisprudence, to consist of seven members each; the duties of which committees shall continue during the year thereafter, and shall cease at the
close of the next succeeding annual communication.
Sec. 71. The Past Grand Masters, appointed Grand Officers, chairmen
of standing committees, and the members of the Jurisprudence, Policy and
General Purposes, Grievances, Finance, Credentials, Pay of Members,
Charters, Clandestine Masonry and By-Laws Committees shall receive payment for their necessary expenditures for transportation to and from each ,
annual communication of the Grand Lodge, in the same manner as ordered
for the officers or representatives of Lodges; but no Grand Officer, Past
Grand Master, chairman or member of a committee, or officer or representative of a Lodge shall receive such payment in more than one of those
capacities, nor shall he receive it unless he shall have been in attendance at
such communication from the first to the last day thereof, inclusive, unless
excused by the Grand Lodge.

Report adopted, referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence,
by which committee Sections 27 and 71 were recommended to be
amended by adding therein the Committee on Clandestine Masonry, and adopted by unanimous vote.
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY,
WILLIAM A. SHERMAN,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON'
WILL H. FISCHER,
WILLIAM H. \V ASTE,
FRANK
MIXTER,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
DONALD S. WILLIAMS,
MATTHEW MORTON, JR.,

w:

Committee.

At 5 :10 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30 o'clock
Friday morning.

233

3ln ~ranb l.obge
MORNING SESSION
Friday, Oct9ber 16, 1936.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions w~re read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND LODGE WEEK
ACTIVITIES
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities begs leave to report
as follows:
On Monday, October 12th, approximately 1000 persons made the trip
around the bay viewing the San Francisco Bay bridges and the 1939
Exposition site. Six hundred feet of 16 m.m. motion pictures were taken
of this trip and prints can be purchased for $25 each, or they may be
rented. Arrangements in either case should be made through the Grand
Secretary's office. It has been suggested that similar pictures of Grand
Lodge Week activities be taken at each subsequent communication of
Grand Lodge under the direction of the activities committee, and a duplicate print to be placed in the archives of Grand Lodge.
The get-together dinner Tuesday night, October 13th, was attended
by 947 brelthren. We feel that we should at this time acknowledge our
special thanks to Past Grand Master Will Fischer for the excellent manner in which he discharged the important duties of toastmaster.
The trip to the Masonic Home at Decoto on Wednesday October 14th
was enjoyed by approximately 800 delegates and friends.' The hundred
automobiles were counted in at the entrance to the Masonic Home 1 of
which 137 were supplied through the courtesy of East Bay brethren, and
to them we extend our hearty appreciation. All enjoyed the delightful
ei:itertainment rendered at the Home through the courtesy of the residents. The arrangements at the Home, including the entertainment, were
made through the courtesy of our genial Superintendent, Brother Frank B.
Hartman.
May the committee on behalf of the Masons and the constituent
Lodges of the East Bay district express regret that, through circumstances
over which none of us had any control, we were not only unable to have
this communication meet in Oakland, but several of the matters which we
had arranged for your entertainment were of necessity cancelled. These
included a dinner for the visiting ladies at the Masonic Club House
University of California at Berkeley, and that splendid Masonic drama'
"Spirit of Hiram," the latter of which was to have been produced through
the courtesy of the Scottish Rite Players of Oakland.
We have attached to this report, which is in duplicate, a copy of all
form letters, circulars and programs. We ask leave to be allowed to file
at a later date a financial report with the Grand Master for his approval
. which shall contain a detailed statement of receipts and disbursements. At

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

234

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the present it is sufficient to say that the expenses will be within the
appropriation made for this communication.
RUSSELL C. HORSTMANN,
CLARENCE A. SEVERIN,
WALTER T. NILSON,
GEORGE C. PETTYGROVE,
CHESTER H. TREICHEL,

Lours MITTELMAN,
JACOB E. HUGHES,
NILES 0. MILLAR,
J. HARRY BERTRAM, .

w.

WESLEY
KERGAN,
TURNER McALLASTER,
JAMES E: HAMMOND,

c.

CHESTER
MORRIS,
SOPHUS NELSON,
MANLEY J. CLARK,

Committee.

The report was adopted except the suggestion that pictures
be taken at subsequent communications of Grand Lodge, which
went over as unfinished business for consideration next year.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the M.". W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
decisions of the Grand Master as reported in his Message and finds · that
all of said decisions are in accordance with the law and recommends
their approval with the exception of decisions IV, X, XV, upon which
separate reports will be made.

Report adopted.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to whom was referred Decision
No. IV of the Most Worshipful Grand Master respectfully report as
follows:
This decision refers to the power of a Lodge or Trustees of a Lodge
to receive funds and securities in trust for certain purposes. While the
provisions of Section 88 of our Constitution clearly contemplate the
acceptance of funds "in trust for any proper specific purpose," we approve
the decision of the Most Worshipful Grand Master that the purposes of
the proposed trusts referred to in the ruling are not such as are intended
by the provision above quoted.
We, therefore, recommend that the decision be approved.

Report adopted.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which was referred decisions
of the Grand Master set forth in his Message, reports as follows upon
Decision No. X:
Said decision is approved upon the assumption that the authority
exercised by the trustees is within the scope of the powers granted to
the trustees by the standing resolution adopted by the Lodge. Section 87
of the Co1istitution specifically requires that the Lodge must retain control
of its funds and property, and that although title or other authority is
vested in trustees provided for in a standing resolution, the trustees
nevertheless shall always be under the control of the Lodge and that
investments and reinvestments shall be subject to direction of the Lodge.
The section further provides that no money shall be drawn without ex-

235

press consent of the Lodge appearing in its records, and the only authorization for withdrawal of funds by action or through the officers of the
trustees must therefore derive its authority from affirmative action of
the Lodge, either specific or general.

Adopted.
Regarding Decision No. 15, without concurring entirely with the
reasoning set forth by the Grand Master in the first paragraph of his
ruling as reported therein, your committee believes that the conclusion
announced in the second paragraph thereof is proper and should be
affirmed. We therefore recommend that the conclusion be approved.

Adopted.
Your committee has carefully considered the proposed resolution to
amend Section 22 of the Constitution, relating to voting in Grand Lodge
and we are of the opinion that any change in this section will involve
various chanegs in the Constitution and we therefore report the matter
back to Grand Lodge for its determination.

The proposed amendment failed of adoption.
There has also been referred to your Committee on Jurisprudence a
proposed amendment to the Constitution relating to gambling enterprises.
We approve the proposed addition to the Constitution, reading as follows,
and recommend its adoption:
Sec. 166A. No Lodge or individual Mason shall, directly or indirectly,
give or attempt to give aid or countenance of Masonry to any raffle, lottery
or other gambling enterprise forbidden' by law. Nor shall any Mason
participate in the conduct or promotion of any such raffle, lottery or other
gambling enterprise conducted in the name of, or directly or indirectly
for the pecuniary benefit of, any Lodge or of any organization a prerequisite of membership wherein is that the persGn be a Master Mason. No
Lodge shall accept any of the proceeds or profits of any raffle, lottery or
other gambling enterprise.
Whenever it shall appear to the Grand Master that any such raffle,
lottery or other gambling enterprise is being conducted, or is about to be
conducted in the name of, or for the benefit of any Lodge, or of any
organization a prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a
Master Mason, or in the name of or for the benefit of 'any committee or
subordinate body thereof, he shall cause to be personally served on any
Mason appearing to be engaged in the conduct or promotion of said enterprise, a notice requiring said Mason immediately to abandon and discontinue his participation in said enterprise. If the Grand Master shall find
after investigation and hearing, of which the accused shall have due and
timely notice and at which he shall be entitled to appear, that such Mason
has engaged in such enterprise and has failed to abandon and discontinue
his participation therein after having received the aforementioned notice
to desist, the Grand Master shall suspend such Mason from all the rights
and privileges of Masonry. Each such suspension, together with the
reasons therefor, shall be presented to Grand Lodge at its next succeeding
annual communication, and shall remain in full force and effect unless
otherwise ordered by Grand Lodge.

The report was adopted and Section 166A was added · to the
Constitution by unanimous vote.
There has also been referred to your committee the resolution of
Loyalton Lodge No. 359, to amend Section 135 of the Constitution so as to
permit Lodges in the mountain sections to hold their annual election of
officers in November. We can readily understand that climatic conditions

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

236

237

'PROCEEDINGS OF THE

in December in some parts of the jurisdiction render it practically impossible
to hold Lodge meetings in December, but it will be impossible to make
exceptions in behalf of any particular Lodge. We therefore recommend that
Section 135 of the Constitution be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 135. The Master, Wardens, Treasurer and Secre:tary of each
Lodge shall be elected annually, by ballot, at the stated meeting next
preceding the anniversary of Saint John the Evangelist, and a majority of
the votes cast shall be necessary to ·elect. Provided, however, that a Lodge
may by a standing resol.ution adopted after notice in writing to every
member of the Lodge, approved by the Grand Master, and effective six
months subsequent to such approval, provide that the annual election
may be had at the stated meeting in November each year. (1936.) They
shall be installed as soon as practicable thereafter, and shall hold their
respective offices until their successors shall have been duly elected and
installed. Installations may be either public or private.

Adopted, and Section 135 was amended as set out above by
unanimous vote.
There was submitted to this committee the resolution of Silver Gate
Lodge No. 296, providing that the form of <limit be revised to include
the words "initiated ........................ ; passed ........................ ; raised ......................,
Lodge .........................., and location .........................." with sufficient space for
the respective dates, name and place, all upon the face of the <limit. We
see no objection to this proposed change and recommend that the words
above set out be included in F orms 243 and 244, relating to certificates of
withdrawal.

The report was adopted.
We have also considered the various dispensations issued by the
Grand Master and the life memberships approved by him, and find that
in all respects he has complied with the law, and we recommend their
DANA R. WELLER,
approval.
JoH N D. MuRPHEY,
BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE,
GEORGE L. ]ONES,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
JoHN STEWART Ross,
BENJ. J. ScHEINMAN,
Adopted.
Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Credentials reports that the following members
of Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled to
participate in its deliberations :
Mileage Allowed
Representatives
Lodge
California.............................No. !.... George F. Wells, Master
Ralph G. Wadsworth, Sr. Warden
Lee Crawford, Past Master
Harvey A. Marvin, Past Master
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master
Max J. Mertens, Jr., Past Master
Daniel E. F. Easton, Past Master
Harvey E. Teller, Past Master
Thornhill Carmany, Past Master
Raimon F. Conlisk, Past Master
Harry C. Dewey, Past Master

\Vestem Star...·-····--'·-..._No. 2....Sherman S. Statton, Master..........•...$ 19.30
Tehama......- .........................No. 3.... Frederick E. Holmes, Master.......... 5.10
Carl E. Yeargain, Sr. Warden
Clarence G. Briggs, Jr. Warden
Chas. A. Schwartz, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 5.10
Benicia..............:._;...........- .. No. 5....Walter N. Clarke, Representative
and Past Master.............................. 1.80
Tuolumne............ _............... No: 8.... Roland Leslie Hughes, Master........ 8.46
Edmond Michel, Jr. Warden
Corinthian............................ No. 9.... George W. Williams, Master............ 7.20
Alfred L. Peterson, Sr. Warden
James William Robinson, Past
Master and Inspector....................... 7.20
SanJose................- ..~.- ..:._..No. 10.... Fred A. Wool, Master........................ 2.50
Herbert K. Daegling, Sr. Warden
Harry Bobbitt, Jr. Warden
Joseph S. Greenly, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 2.50
Christopher H. Smith, Past Master
John H. McGehee, Past Master........ 5.10
Yount.....................................No. 12....George J. Gerlach, Master................ 2.50
John J. Arnitz, Sr. Warden.............. 2.50
John A. Pederson, Past Master
Percy S. King, Past Master
B. C. Corbett, Past Master................ 2.50
Chas. E . Trower, Past Master
Nevada..................................No. 13.... Harold E. Roberts, Master................ 15.10
Temple_................................No. 14.... Henri J. Baliros, Master.................... 3.12
Arthur F. Richardson, Sr. Warden
Eureka.........·-················-····No.16....Burrell C. Juli, Master.......................... 7.30
·
Harold H. White, Sr. Warden
Sydney W. Bancroft, Past Master
Louis Griffiths Robert, Past Master
La Parfaite Union.............. No. 17....Paul Gros, Master
Leopold L . Detoy, Sr. Warden
Remi C. Asnard, Jr. Warden
A. L. Auradou, Past Master and
Inspector
· M. E . Diebold, Past Master
Henry Mottet, Past Master
Mountain Shade..................~o. 18.... Stanley N. McCormick, Master........ 23.30
San Joaquin.......................... N o. 19.... Carlton Smith Wilcox, Master........ 4.76
Richard M. Wilson, Sr. Warden
Bruce G. Hislop, Past Master
Washington........................•No. 20.... David Harry Pinsler, Master............ 5.10
John Oscar Danielson, Jr., Sr.
Warden
Robert Stephen Roduner, Jr.
Warden
Clyde R. Palmer, Past Master
John J. Haken, Past Master
Harold I. Scholefield, Past Master
Hawaiian................- ............No. 21....William S. Fairbanks, Sr. Warden.. 250.00
Gordon Ross, Past Master and
Grand Standard Bearer................ 25~.00

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

OccidentaL................:........ No. 22....Roderick B. Cassidy, Master
Alden Ames, Sr. Warden
William J. Peden, Jr. Warden
· Rudolph Mohr, Jr. Past Master and
Inspector
Ralph K. Marshall, Past Master
William P. Humphreys, Past Master
Madison................................No. 23....Walter J. Wieger, Master.................. 14.80
George Louis Jones, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.................. 15.10
Mariposa.....................c•••••••• No. 24....]ohn Schweifler, Sr. Warden .......... 22.92
Fred C. Alexander, Past Master
and Inspector ................................ 22.50
James P . McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown........................•No. 25 ....Walter G. Drysdale, Master............ 13.50
El Dorado.............................No. 26.... Henry Panning, Master...................... 8.60
Berent E. Chappell, Sr. Warden
Chas. H. Fehnemann, Jr. Warden
Trinity...................................No. 27.... Hal E. Goodyear, Sr. Warden .......... 30.30
B. H. Mace, Past Master
Golden Gate..........................No. 30....Albert E. Witcher, Master
·
Josiah F. Still, Sr. Warden
Wayne L Rawlings, Jr. Warden
Fred S. Nobmann, ,Past Master
Paul R. Bjick, Past Master
Edward C. C. Wellesley, Past
Master
A. F. Heuer, Past Master
Gold HilL........................... No. 32...•Barney G. Barry, Master.................... 6.80
Ophir.....................................No. 33.... Francis B. Orth, Master.................. 15.30
San Diego.............................No. 35.... Earl Jos. Verdeckberg, Master........ 42.68
Jasper J. Barrett, Jr. Warden
J. B. McLees, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 42.68
Rainsford W. Belding, Past Master
Claude Howard Morrison, Past
Master .............................................. 42.68
Howard.................................No. 37.... Edward E. Vail, Sr. Warden............ 27.40
Santa Cruz...........................No. 38.... Fred B. Montell, Master.................... 4.70
· James N. Dier, Sr. Warden
Daniel M. McPhetres, Jr. Warden
Val C. Watermap, Past Master
Willett Ware, Past Master
Sacramento........................c.No. 40....Walter Owen Costello, Master........ 5.10
Daniel R. Cate, Sr. Warden
Frank Tade, Past Master
C. W. Frazier, Past Master
Martinez...............................No. 41.... Edwin D. Blakemore, Master............ 1.80
Ellwood 0. Mitchell, Sr. Warden
Louis Mittleman, ,Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.20
Hugh P. Roberts, Past Master
Los Angeles....:.......;............ No. 42....J. W. Lewis, Master.......................... 34.10
J. J. Svoboda, Sr. Warden
Sidney K. Lehman, Past Master
· and Asst. Grand Lecturer............ 34.10

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

239

. Hiram....................................N o. 43 .... Ernest G. Scheiber, Master.............. 8.20
Chas. E. Green, Past Master and
Inspector ................................................ 8.60
Mount Moriah.....................No. 44.... Louis A. Geils, Sr. Warden
Harry M. Nicolson, Jr. Warden
D. B. Richards, Past Master
Thomas Nixon, Past Master
Roy A. ·P ratt, Past Master
John C. Kimball, Past Master
Crescent................................No. 45.... Robert D. Adler, Master.................... 40.42
Texas.................................... No. 46....Axel Carlsen, Master.......................... 5.92
Jos. Emil Regan, Sr. Warden
Forbestown:......................... No. 50....Chas. E. Fernandez, Master.............. 14.80
Jos. W. Vance, Sr. Warden
James M. Popper, Jr. Warden
J. D. Vance, Past Master
J. A. Vaughan, Past Master
lllinoistown..........................No. SL.William J. Eddy, Master.................. 8.80
Suisun...................................No. 55 ....Severt E. Swanson, Master................ 2.70
Howard L. Roloff, Sr. Warden
Harry Nelson, 'Past Master and
Inspector ......:..................................... 2.70
John H. Murray, Past Master
Volcano.................................No. 56.... Paul B. Procter, Master.................... 12.96
Santa Rosa...........................N o. 57....Martin Legerini, Master...................... 4.30
Elsworth L . Barnett, Sr. Warden
R. W. Leggett, Past Master
Union.....................................No. 58....]ack C. Butler, Master........................ 5.10
John A. Gerber, Sr. Warden
David L. Joslyn, Jr. Warden
John S. McNaughton, Past Master
Gravel Range.......................No. 59.... Fred J. Joubert, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 17.60
Acton M. Cleveland, Representative
and Past Master................................ 17.20
Plumas......................•........... No. 60.... 0rval A. Myers, Sr. Warden............ 21.22
Live Oak...............................No. 61....George W. Gerichten, Sr. Warden
Chas. E. Haven, Past Master
Clarence A. Severin, Past Master
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
Bradford Webster, Past Grand
Master
Natoma................................. No. 64....Herbert Brugler, Master.................... 6.30
Richard H. Borsberry, Past Master
H. C. Clemensen, ,Past Master
Amador................................. No. 65 .... William P . Peters, Master.................. 9.40
Clyde H. Getchell, Sr. Warden
Forest...................................No. 66....Willard Van Doren, Jr., Master........ 22.94
Morning Star.......................No. 68 .... Harry Wallace Rohrbacher, Sr.
Warden .............................................. 4.76
Ralph W. Hickinbotham, Jr.
Warden
Harry W. Bessac, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 4.76
Orrin S. Henderson, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.................. 2.32

240

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Enterprise............- ............. _No. 70.... Clive Berry Kelly, Sr. Wa.rden ........ · 7.00
Hugh D. Moncur, Past Master
.
Bear Mountain .................... No. 76 ....Chas. Peter Cusich, Master.............. 9.88
H. A. Harper, Inspector.................: 7.60
Calaveras .............................. N o. 78 .... Milan Dragomanwich, RepresentaH
·
tive and Past Master...................... 9.30
umboldt .......:...................... No. 79 .... Victor Egan, Sr. Warden .................. 23.42
T. R. Dinsmore, Past Master
·
James T. Fraser, Grand Sr. Warden 23.42
lone........................-········-····No. 80 .... Enos Williams, Master...................... 7.30
.
J. W. Sibole, Past Master ·
Yolo•.:·-············-········-··-·····No. 81.. .. Leon L. Borach, Past Master.......... 5.20
Vesper....·-·················-·········No. 84 .... David A. Baylis, .Past Master and
Representative .................................. 15.70
N al
av ·········'······-··················No. 87 .... Elton L. Hunt, Master........................ 1.60
Philip S. Creedon, Sr. Warden
Ernest C. Fugler, Jr. Warden
Mark T. Andrews, Past Master
Joseph C. Harrison, Past Master
Paul E. Meyers, Past Master
,
.
· · David R. Doherty, Past Master
Roses Bar.... c••••••••••••••••••••••• No. 89 .... Herbert Leslie Hite, Master............ 10.20
North Sta~ ........ :....•.......... N o. 91....Edward Goodwin Master
30.40
~- Helena.............................No. 93 .... John A. Mitchell'. Master:::::::::::::::::: 3.60
enry Clay.......................... N o. 95 .... 0mar Shirley Clemens, Master........ 9.46
.
Malachi D. Nixon, Past Master
Hormtos ............................... No. 98 .... William A. Thompson, Master........ 18.10
y
.
George A. Bates, Jr. Warden
osem1te.......... _.......... _.... _.No. 99.... Leslie F. Moe, Sr. Warden.............. 8.00
T. W. Fowler, Past Master .
Earl. R. Ewing, Past Master
Roy E. Lantz, Past Master .
Clay...·--··-····-···-····-····-···No. 101....Robert Wm. Bibby, Master............ 9.70
.
·
Herbert W. Haberkorn, Past Master
Orov11le................................. No. 103.... Elton J. Leggett, Sr. Warden........
8.80
Albert E. Boynton, Past Grand
Master
·
·
.
· Cyril R. Macdonal, Past Master
Lexington............................. No. 104.... 0sman J. Gerhart, Master................ 35.00
R. G. Wolstoncroft, Past Master
Ar~ata...·-····················-····-No. 106.... Frank C. Ordway, Sr. Warden...... 23.42
PaJaro...·--··-···-·················No. 110.... Allie H. Matson, Master................ -..
5.50
Harold Ray Hushbeck, Sr. Warden
. .
R. H. Davis, Past Master ·
Ch1co...........-·········-·············No. 111....Clifton E. Boysol, Sr. Warden........ 9.90
Frank M. Moore, Past Master and
_
0
9 90
Summit.............:...........- .._.No. 112....J
·
.
ative ············-························--········ 6.66
Eden...................................... N o. 113.... Chas. Forsythe, Master .. .
William J. Forester, Sr. Warden
Siciney R. Force, Past Master
Concord, .........•..................... No. 117.... Harold E. Moon, Master..................
5.10
Elmer D. Rastorfer, Jr. Warden
Anton L. Johnson, Past Master
James F. Lyon, Past Master

a!i':!~el~ ~~;;i~~~:··5·~:·:~;~;;~·~-~t~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

241

Fidelity...... __ ,............:........• No. 120.... Milton D. Sapiro, Mas~er
Harold S. Simon, Sr. Warden
George K. Manheim, Past Master
Phillip Jacobovics, ·Past Master
Leon M. Loewenthal, Past Master
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Benjamin Armer, Past Master
Leo J. Simon, Past Master
Alamo...•.......•.......... _............ No. 122.... Andrew J. Andersen, Master ............ 2.90
Curtis H. Duncan, Jr. Warden
Chas. G. Faisst, Past Master
Sotoyome .....,.........-.............No. 123.... Perry Donald Austin, Master .......... 4.32
Table Mountain.................. No. 124.... Walter Green Odneal, Past Master
.
and Representative ....................... . 8.80
La Fayette .....,... ;......- ......... No. 126 .... Wm. C. Heatly, Inspector, Past
Master and Representative ......... . 3.42
Hermann............................... No. 127 .... Wilhelm Schumacher, Master
G. J. H. Hauschidt, Sr. Warden
Ernst Gentner, Jr. Warden
John Behrens, Past Master and
Inspector
Hans Emil Warncke, Past ·Master
Louis Muller, Past Master
Geo. A. Green, Past Master
Richard H. Dachner, Past Master
Visalia....-... ,......................... N o. 128 ....J ohn Wallace Stevenson, Master ... . 17.90
Nicolaus ............................... No. 129 .... Ernest L. Conant, Sr. Warden ...... 7.20
Woodbridge......................... No. 131....Hugh A. Dow, Sr. Warden ............. . 5.30
·
Guard C. Darrah, Jr. Warden
Sincerity............................... N o. 132.... George L. Condy, Master................ 21.54
Vacaville............................... No. 134.... Robt. Grady Allen, Past Master ... . 3.70
Eugene W. Stoddard, Past Master
Frank H. Clark, Past Master
Valley.---·····························No. 135.... Ralph T. Bishop, Master ................ 5.80
James C. Field, Sr. Warden
Ralph M. Foote, Past Master and
Inspector ......................................... . 5.80
J. M. Corson, Past Master
Pacific....-:...- ....................... No. 136.... William C. Drinnen, Master
Raymond T. Anixter, Sr. Warden
Roy Emery, Jr. Warden
Thomas Anderson, Past Master
and Inspector
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Charles E. Jackson, Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
William J. Dawson, Past Master
Eugene S. Elkus, Past Master
Crockett-····--··············-······No. 139 .... Wilbert H. Mason, Master
George H. Hauerken, Sr. Warden
Francis J. Daly, Jr. Warden
W. A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
C. Zeigeler, Past Master
D. A. Stivers, Past Master
Curtis -·······-············'······-·No. 140. ... Robert M. McClelland, Master ..... . 5.12
Grafton ............................... No. 141.... Gordon C. Piper, Sr. Warden ....... . 5.42

242

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Franklin ________________________________N o. 143 .... Clyde Bishop, Master __________ _____________ _
.
George Henry Holmes, Sr. Warden
0 nenta1--------·-···--······-·-··-··---·No. 144 .... Delbert L. Berry, Master
Carl U. Zachrisson, Sr. Warden
Richard H. Hartje, Jr. Warden
Walter Leonard, Past Master and
Inspector
William S. Wells, Past Master
William E. Conner, Past Master
Alfred J. Snow, Past Master
John F. Clute, Past Master
Volney Stamps, Past Master
Charles T. Clark, Past Master
Roy N. Buell, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Charles R. Brown, Past Master
Clarence W. Dobie, Past Master
Frank C. Martin, Past Master
Owen L. Gibson, Past Master
.
.
Geo. B. Lake, Past Master
V1truv1us ______________________________ No. 145.... Russell L. Smith Master

6.40

3.80
Holberg P. Krist~nsen, S~----W~~-d~-~
Abell .....·-·--·-·---·-·---·-·---·-··--·---N o. 146.... N orman Grant Buhn Master
6.62
E
.
Elmer M. Hopper, Past Ma~-t~;--·
1
e R1ver·--·-·--·-···-····-·-··-----No. 147.... Arthur D. Niles, Sr. Warden ....____ 23.42
W. G. Orman, Past Master and
L
Inspector ...................... :................
20.82
-··
assen. ___ ···-··-··-···--··--··-·-···----No. 149.... Wallace V. Hardy Master
MI'1
'
------·······- 24.62
Wo n°--------··--·--·-·--···-··--.......No. 150.... John W. Day, Master ....................... . 15.00
oodland ............................. No. 156.... George L. Stivers Master
4.90
Keystone .............................. No. 16L.William H. Watt~ Maste~·-····-·····
H
'
............ 6.60
armony....... ·--·----··-··-···-·-·-N o. 164.... Ernest M. Innes, Representative
Excel ·
and Past Master ............................ 30.10
sior..........................•... No. 166.... Elwood Ri'chard Olsen, Master
James D. Ryan, Jr. Warden
Chas. A. Adams, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Arnold T. Brown, Past Master
J. W. Crosby, Past Master
Ralph G. Curtis, Past Master
Walter Peddicord, Past Master
Al
Samuel H. Perkins Past Master
ameda ................................No. 167.... Frank G. Evans Master
1.70
Randolph A. Griffin, Sr. W~;d~~-·-·
Chas. I. Burtch, Jr. Warden
Frank B. Hartman, Past Master
.
Frank A. Katzer, Pa~t Master
Redwood City..................... No. 168.... Ralph C. Rathbone Morser, Master 2.02
John Robt. Isaac, Sr. Warden
Mi i
Theodore Melzar Cole, Jr. Warden
ss on_·--·-·---··-··-···-··--··---·-·· No. 169.... Daniel D. Smith, Sr. Warden
Jos. Wm. Erwin, Jr. Warden
Robert Ed. Allan, Past Master
George A. Hansen, Past Master
Lew Edward Wallace, Past Master
Henry J. Trowbridge, Past Master

243

Elk Grove............................ No. 173 .... Nathan M. Clem, Master _________________ _ 5.10
George B. Stout, Sr. Warden
K. F. Douglas, Past Master
Geo. M. Taverner, Past Master
Drytown·-·-···-·-·····-··-····-·····--No. 174.... John J. Myers, Representative ..... . 8.96
Antioch·--·-··-·····------··-···········N o. 175 .... Paul William Ayers, Master ........... . 2.90
James N. Christian, Sr. Warden
Garth Henry Rose, Jr. Warden
Phoenix ................................ No. 178.... Charley E. Showalter, Master ......... . 37.60
Fred W. Hattan, Sr. Warden
Mendocino_________ ,_________________,No. 179.... Donald Sangster, Past Master
James W. Todd, Representative ... . 20.22
Petaluma .............................. No. 180....J. Carl Werner, Sr. Warden ........... . 2.62
S. Clay Olmstead, Jr. Warden
Russian River ................... No. 18L.. Victor H. Anderson, Master......... . 4.22
Arbuckle............................... No. 182.... Herbert H. Vann, Past Master
and Representative ··-·-··-···--·····---· 6.60
Clear Lake........................... No. 183.... C. E. Corum, Representative, Past
Master and Inspector ·-----··-··-···--· 12.70
Sierra Valley.:.................... No. 184.... Earl H . Turner, Master _________________ _ 28.10
Claiborne.............................. No. 185 .... James D. Jensen, Master ____________ ___ _ 22.12
D. W. Dunbar, Past Master
-Evening Star.... ·-····-·····-······N o. 186.... Alexander Parker, Representative
arid Past Master ...·-·--·--·----·····--·····-· 30.00
Keith ........ ·--····-······-······-·······No. 187.... Frederick G. Graves, Master........... . 4.40
D. Brown Hall, .Past Master
Geo. E. Skillicorn, Past Master
Geo. H. Smith, Past Master
Oakland .................................No. 188 ____ Melvin L. Graves, Master
Frank A. West, Sr. Warden
Robert B. Gaylord, Jr., Jr. Warden
Sophus Nels on, Past Master and
Inspector
George C. Perkins, Past Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
William S. MacMurtry, Past ·
Master
Wilfred R. Hill, Past Master
Milton Hendrickson, Past Master
Chas. C. DeWolf, Past Master
Northern LighL.................No. 190.... Daryl E. Armstrong, Sr. Warden 19.80
Vernon Asher, Jr. Warden
Marin..................................... No. 191.... Henning S. Vandel, Master ........... .
1.38
Warren H. Williams, Jr. Warden
Joseph Block, Past Master
H. F. Meilink, Past Master
Chas. T. Smith, Past Master
H. K. Walton, Past Master
Santa Barbara--------·-·-·-·-······N o. 192.... Estle A. Fenn, Master ___________________ _ 26.80
Leonard Page, Jr. Warden
John McRae, Past Master and
Inspector ··-··-····-········-·····---·····--··-··-· 26.80
Ferndale................................ N o. 193.... Herbert K. Mathes, Master ........... . 24.42
Mountain View .................... No. 194.... Leon H. Watson, Master _______________ _ 2.62
Roy Eschenbruecher, Sr. Warden
R. S. Knight, Past Master

244

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Buckeye................- ....•......... No. 195.... Leonard A. Overhouse, Sr.
Warden ............................................ 4.40
San Sinteon.......................... No. 196.... William Reid Master
23.60
Wilmington.......................... No. 198 .... Kenneth E. Kincaid, ·M~~t·~·~:::::::::: 34.10
J. R. Radcliffe, Sr. Warden
Hartley.................................. No. 199 .... Chas. J. Awe, Sr. Warden.............. 10.80
Truckee................................. No. 200.... Eric G. Gram, Representative and
Past Master .................................... 17.52
Silveyville ······--··············No. 201.. .. Ernest W. Anderson, Master.......... 3.80
.
Ralph W. Castner, Sr. Warden
Pentalpha............................. No. 202.... Leland A. Dailey, Master.............. 34.10
Wallace Durham, Sr. Warden
Frank T. Stump, Jr. Warden
Lawrence C. Kelley, Past Master
and Inspector ................................ 34.10
Theodore T. Spurgeon, Past
Master .............................................. 34.10
James Black Gist, Past Master
and Past Grand Master................ · 34.10
William R. Hervey, Past Master
and .Past Grand Master................ 34.10
Frank S. Templar, Past Master
Confidence............................ No. 203 .... Walter C. Buttle; Sr. Warden........ 6.10Christopher Dudley, Past Master
Salinas..................... _............No. 204 .... Henry A. Holme, Master................ 6.60
Harry L. Noland, Sr. Warden
Olivet.....................................No. 205 .... Jules Morris Nathan, Master........ 10.50
John Estes Clark, Jr. Warden
Stanislaus ............................. No. 206 .... William P. Baldwin, Sr. Warden.... 5.80
Anaheim................................No. 207 .... Arthur S. Osborn, Master.............. 35.70
Rj.2..Yista ................ :: ............No. 208 .... Edward Wilcoxson, Jr. Warden.... 4.82
Kmg David's ....................... No.209 .. :.Carl W. Pate, Master...................... 18.60
Wiltiam A. Sharp, Sr. Warden
Carl Kirkeby, Jr. Warden
·John. Whicher, Past Master and
- Grand Secretary
Robert W. Frazier, Past Master
Lyle - F. Carpenter, Past Master
aitd Inspector ................................ 18.60
·
· · .Howard B. Kirtland, Past Master
Friendship............................ N o. 210:: .. Elroy H. Shank, Master.................. 2.50
·
Ernest. L. Wilder, Sr. Warden
Arthur J. Miner, Jr. Warden
Darrel J. Sedgwick, Past Master
Claude C. Clerk, Past Master
William W. Paull, Past Master
Edward H. Kocher, Past Master
San Benito ........................... No. 211.. .. Martin Chester Arthur, Master...... 5.20
Herman A. Hermansen, Sr. Warden
Cledith C. Trimble, Jr. Warden
R. W. O'Bannon, Past Master and
Inspector ..........................................
5.20
Frank H. Wood
So. San Francisco.............. No. 212.... George J. Zech, Sr. Warden
Chas. F. Hensel, Past Master
Wm. Geo. Green, Past Master
Simon McDonald, Past Master

245

San Buenaventura........:..... No. 214 .... James H. Henderson, Master...'·'·· 29.50
·
Hugh M. Wood, Sr. Warden
Cecil J. Rainly, Jr. Warden
Michael L. Brazil, Past Master
and Inspector ,....._,.,,.,,,,..,,..,,._.,._. .. ;··· 29.50
Oak Grove .:•.•..............:.......No. 215 .... Chester F. Hacke, Master
F. G. Thornton, Past Master
Mansfield Garratt, Past Master
Doric...;..........•.......•.,............ No. 216 .... Samu~I D. Hamburg, Master
Walter C. Simpson, Sr. Warden
·Manuel Lafee, Past Master
Monterey........................... :.;No. 217.... Carl L. Pearson, Master.................. 7.10
Clyde H. Warren; Past Master
Mosaic...... ,..................:......... No. 218 ....Manly J. Clark, Past Master and
2.50
Inspector ........................................... ,..
Ray R. Reedy, Representative........ 2.50
Speranza Italiana...............No. 219 .... Natale Lena, Master
Vito L. Bruno, Sr. Warden
John Icardi, Jr. Warden
John M. Icardo, Past Master and
Inspector
Antonio M. Cogliandro, .Past
Master
Pietro Capua, Past Master
Clement C. Peini, Past Master
Downey................................. No. 220 .... Edward Smith, Sr. Warden ........... . 34.80
lnyo;...................................... No. 221.. .. James G. Wilder, Sr. Warden ....... . 45.00
Roseville ............................... N o. 222 .... J os. H. Fleming, Past Master and
Representative ............................... . 6.20
Bakersfield.................::........ No. 224.... Wm. Arthur Snare, Master ........... . 22.80
Edgar Lee Burton, Jr. Warden.
Arthur S. Crites, Past Master and
Past Grand Master ....................... . 22.80
Henry Rissler, Past Master........... . 22.80
Brooklyn...............................No. 225 .... William Keay, Master
Roy S. H. Lenthall, Sr. Warden
Robert B. Masters, Jr. Warden
Francis J. Rennie, Past Master
1.52
San Mateo ............................ No. 226 .... Hugh W. Allen, Master ................... .
Chas. Smith, Sr. Warden
Athens................................... No. 228 .... Lloyd Burnett, Sr. Warden .............. 4.30
1.60
Solano................................... No. 229 .... Lucien P. Dunne, Master................ ..
Maurice Wm. Bowker, Sr. Warden
Otto H. Recknagel,. Jr., Jr.
Warden
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
Dempsey F. Dufour, Past Master
Henry A. Fram, Past Master
8.30
North Butte........................ No. 230 .... James Wm. Littares, Sr. Warden
Covelo ................................... No. 231.. .. B. B. Johnston, Representative ..... . 19.42
J anesville.............................. N o. 232.... Ray Fraley, Master........................... . 28.62
Calistoga............................... N o. 233 .... N ot represented.
Hope...................................... No. 234.... Raymond A. Scolari, Representative and Past Master ................... . 24.62
Surprise Valley...:...............N o. 235 .... Lyle Fernley Barber, Master ......... . 36.62

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hills Ferry......................- ..No. 236.... 0scar Thorpe, Sr. Warden .............. 6.20
William S. Thompson, Past Master
and Inspector ................................ 6.20
Guadalupe_····-··········-···-····No. 237.... Eugene D. Martin, Sr. Warden...... 20.10
Colusa....•....................- ........ No. 240.... Henry E. Kaufman, Master............ 7.80
I. C. Totman, Past Master and
Inspector ..................................•....... 7.80
Santa Ana.........·-····-··········No. 241.... Leslie M. Pearson, Sr. Warden ...... 35.80
August H. Allen, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 35.80
L . F. Harvey, Past Master
Magnolia..........-................_No. 242.... Dana F. Bucey, Master.................... 26.80
Eugene H. Bowman, Jr. Warden
Edward L. Abbot, Past Master
Eucalyptus............................N o. 243.... Robert P. Leibe, Master
Walter F. Flierl, Sr. Warden
Emil May, Jr. Warden
Jelson E'. Clemens, Past Master
Alfred B. Morris, Past Master
William E. Rowlands, Past Master
Alcatraz................................ No. 244....John M. Ward, Master
Joseph R. Haney, Jr. Warden
Thos. Smillie, Past Master
Carl C. Eien, .P ast Master
Alonzo Waggener, Past Master
Edwin A. Clothier, Past Master
Anthony D. Childers, Past Master
George. K. Harry, Past Master
Lewis T. Corwin, Past Master
Laurel....................................N o. 245.... Henry H . Ossenbriggen, Master.... 8.80
Abraham Boyd, Past Master
Pomona................- ............... No. 246.... George A. Ritter, Master................ 36.20
Clarence R. Goff, Sr. Warden
Currier Thatcher, Jr. Warden
Fresno-················-····-····-···No. 247....Amil L. Jacobsen, Sr. Warden........ 15.30
Chester H. Warlow, Past Master
and Asst. Grand Lecturer............ · 15.30
Harry F. White, Past Master
Alturas................- ................No. 248.... Chas. S. Baldwin, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 30.62
John Chas. Rachford, Representative and Past Master.....................: 30.62
Adin ......:·--·····-·······-·········No. 250.... Not represented
Landmark...·-·············-········No. 253....Marc E. Jones, Representative and
Past Master ......................:............. 5.20
Reading............................- ...No. 254....Jesse Parker Smith, Sr. Warden.... 17.80
Gilbert C. DeForest, Past Master
and Asst. Grand Lecturer............ 17.80
Albert F. Ross, Past Master and
Grand Orator .................................. 17.80
George P. Rodgers, Past Master
Welcome.............,............... No. 255.... Walter Nelson Hubbard, Master 17.90
Lodi...·-···-····--··-···-····-··-No. 256.... George T. Killelea, Jr. Warden...... 5.10
T. Glenn Wright, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 5.10
Harl M. Young, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

247

Penrhyn................................ No. 258.... Linton R. Bradley, Master............ 6.80
Edmund J. Pilz, Past Master
Evergreen.............................No. 259 .... Henry D. French, Master................ 37.61"
.
Roy L. Haglund, Sr. Warden
Wm. G. Babcock, Past Master and
Inspector ..........................................:...37.60
James MacDougall, Past Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master.... 37.60
A. Heber Winder, Past Master
James H. Jordan, Past Master
King Solomon's.................. No. 260.... David Kerr, Master
Willard W. Grundel, Sr. Warden
Randolph V. Whiting, Past Master and Past Grand Master
W illiam K. Cullen, Past Master
William P. Filmer, Grand Treasurer and Past Grand Master
Tuscan.................................. No. 261....Leland D. Keller, Representative 7.30
Lompoc....... _........................ No. 262 .... Robert R. Mercer, Master................ 23.30
Judson H. Merriam, Sr. Warden
W. A. Stewart, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 23.30
James J. Gardner, Past Master
Hesperian............................. No. 264.... Paul H. Bailey, Sr. Warden............ 20.92
Orland........................ ~..........No. 265.... William Nelson, Sr. Warden........ 9.70
Herman H. Thode, Past Master
and Inspector ................................ 9.70
R. C. E . Weber, Past Master
North East........................... No. 266.... E. C. McConnaughy, Past Master
and Representative ...................... 35.62
Galt........................................ No. 267.... D. A. Williamson, Representative
5.10
Durant.................................. No. 268....John Jacob Hink, Master
.
George C. Pettygrove, Sr. Warden
Robert A. Hanson, Jr. Warden
Niles 0. Miller, Past Master and
Inspector
Donald D. Graves, .Past Master
Ralph E. Hoyt, Past Master
W illiam H. Waste, Past Master
Walter W . Bradley, Past Master
George H. Irwin, Past Master
Gustav A. Guesche, Past Master
F. H . E. O'Donnell, Past Master
Olive Branch...................... No. 269....James A. Patterson, Master............ 18.00
Edgar F. Reed, Past Master
Snow Mountain.................. No. 271.. .. Charles Alexander, Representative 13.80
Pasadena ............................... No. 272.... George J . Macey, Master.................. 34.90
William A. Allen, Sr. Warden
Anchor.................................. No. 273....Theodore M. Newtson, Master...... 34.10
Thomas H. Parrish, Sr. Warden
G. W. Zimmerman, Inspector and
Past Master .................................... 34.50
Cecil Monro Prior, Past Master
Arroyo...,..............................No. 274.... Lorenzo W. Lierly, Master............ 19.42
Frank E. Stewart, Sr. Warden
A. Harry Severson, .P ast Master

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oakdale............................- ...No. 275.... Lawrence ·B. Gilber.t, Master....·-··· 6.66
B. F. Hoisholt, Inspector and Past
.
Master ..................•.,..............•...•.;-• 6.66
Selma..............·-·······-·····-·-No. 277.... Don H. Sinclair, Master.................... 16.30
Terril C. Efird, Sr. Warden
Southern California.......... No. 278.... Edgar L. Tilley, Master.................... 34.10
Dana R. Weller, Past Grand
Master .............................................. 34.10
E. B. Spencer, Past Master
Hanford..............................• No. 279.... Edgar J. Northamer, Sr. Warden 17.50
.
John L. Sullivan, Past Master
Madera..................................No. 280.... Dean Cook, Master..................·........'.. 14.10
Carl H. Edman, Sr. Warden
Mount Shasta......................No. 281.... Wm. C. Gover, Representative and
Past Master .................................... 17.10
.
Edwin L. Story, Past Master
Callayomi................-····-·····No. 282.... Philip J. Menzio, Master.'..........:.... 8.60
South West...·-···············-··No. 283....Thomas Earl Ward, Master............, 42.68
Lloyd W. Bates, Sr. Warden
Earl G. Spafford, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 42.68
San Miguel............,............. No. 285 .... Maurice C. Zetzelman, Master........ 11.90
·
A. Logan Bacher, Sr. Warden
Paso Robles.................- ..... No. 286.... Albert S. Young, Sr. Warden.......... 12.50
Winiledumah....................... No. 287.... Ralph Allingham, Master................ 37.72
Maxwell....-··········-············-No. 288.... A. T. Butler, Past Master.............:.. 7.80
Elsinore................................ No. 289 ....John Nedvidek, Sr. Warden............ 38.32
East Gate.............................No. 290.... Eric S. Flett Master
34.10
Harold C. S~hultz, s~:··w-·~-~d·~·~······
Fred Otto Hoffman, Past Master
Ralph . E. Smith, Past Master....:.:.· 34.10
Edward Lee Stephens, Past Master
.
·
Frank M. Smith, Past Master
Santa Paula......................... No. 291.... Gustav A. Quick, Master................ 30.50
Vernelie .V. Lloyd, Sr. Warden
Los Gatos............................No. 292 .... Desmond T . Jenkins, Master.......... 3.10
Joseph A. Brinton, Sr: Warden
Jack D. Broderick, Jr. Warden
Thomas M. Widby, Inspector and
Past Master .................................... 2.50
Orange Grove......................No. 293....John D. Campbell, Master................ 35.80
·
John S. Lampert, Sr. Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Jr. Grand
Warden
Traver........................·--······No. 294....Wallace R. Carlson, Sr. Warden 16.60
Mt. Jackson..........................No. 295 .... George B. Orr, Master...................... 4.30
Marvin Read, Jr. Warden
Silver Gate........................... No. 296.... Earl F. Kenner, Jr. Warden .......... 42.68
Raymond P. Wakeman, Past
Master
Dunsmuir................-····-····-No. 297.... Ralph T. Wattenburger, Sr.
Warden .............................................. 22.60
Liberty.................................. No. 299 ....William M. Jones, Master.............. 2.40
John Thomas Allen, Sr. Warden
Chas. 0. Burrell, Inspector and
Past Master ···--····-·····················--,. 2.40

GRAND. LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

249

Redlands ................- ..............No. 300.... Hubert E. Barnes, Sr. Warden~ ..... 38.10
A. F. Crim, Inspector and Past
Master .............................................. 38.10
Harry Horne, Grand Bible Bearer 38.10
Ontario....- ............................No. 301.... Carl T. Holmer, Master.................... 36.50
Boyd H. Kuhns, Jr. Warden
Santa Lucia......................... No. 302....John Alfred Carlson, Representative .................................................... 9.30
Porterville............................ No. 303.... Frank Daybell, Sr. Warden ............ 19.38
Obed W. Carr, Inspector and Past
Master .............................................. 18.38
S. A. Leslie, Past Master
Reedley ................................. No. 304 ....Clarence E. Skidmore, Sr. Warden 16.68
Azusa .................................... No. 305 ....John Everett Malone, Sr. Warden 35.60
Ashlar ...................................No. 306.... Leonard F. Ballmer, Sr. Warden 37.60
Santa Monica......................No. 307.... Earl S. Miller, Master...................... 34.10
Wm. M. King, Sr. Warden
Frank M. Wise, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 34.10
Monrovia.......,......................N o. 308.... Harry Jos. Brown, Master.............. 35.20
Leslie M. Renaker, Inspector.......... 35.20
Delano...................................N.o. 309.... Chas. E. Skeen, Master...................... 20.90
Archibald Sheppard, Past Master
SissotL........................- ...... No. 310....Jos L. Paynter, Jr. Warden.......... 23.50
Los Banos............................No. 312.... Eugene L. Christian, Sr. Warden.... 7.40
Tehachapi.............................No. 313.... 0tto A. Lange, Master...................... 24.70
Charles A. Anderson, Past Master
Temescal...............................No. 314.... Avery W . Briggs, Master.............. 38.50
Norwalk............................... No. 315....James McGann Tyner, Sr.
Warden ............................................ 34.70
Sanger.............·-······--··-·····No. 316....John C. Rasmussen, Sr. Warden .... 16.20
Fallbrook.....................- ....... N o. 317....Chas. E. Stubblefield, Past Master and Jr. Warden........................ 41.72
Emmanuel............................ No. 318....Lewis E. Reynolds, Jr. Warden.... 8.50
Hollenbeck........................... N o. 319.... Sylvester Carden, Master................ 34.10
David L. Morton, Sr. Warden
Leon C. Glendenning, Jr. Warden
Leo Youngworth, .P ast Master...... 34.10
South Gate.......................... No. 320....John R. Neelands, Master................ 34.10
Roy Harvey Longshore, Sr.
Warden
Ira David Yohn, Jr. Warden
Martin Luther Griffith; Past
Master .............................................. 34.10
Geo. Morris Donovan, Past Master
Fred E. Ussher, Past Master
Alisal.....................................No. 321....Walter T. Nilson, Master................ 2.10
Glassey Samuel Dinsmore, Past
Master
Hans N. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra...:......................... No. 322....Tom DeWitt Atkins, Master........ 34.60
Clayton T. Gibbs, Sr. Warden
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
Erie Lake Farris, Past Master

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Whittier ....................L. ........ No. 323 .... Wilbur J. Hale, Master.................... 35.00
Clarence W. Peck, Sr. Warden
Roy I. Lefever, Inspector and Past
Master .............................................. 35.00
Alonzo W. Jones, Past Master
Corona .................................. No. 324 .... David M. Marcus, Master.............. 34.90
C. P. Salisbury, Sr. War,den
Consuelo............................... No. 325 .... Harold R. Brewer, Jr. Warden...... 42.18
Needles ........................... -.... No. 326 .... Merle C. Hammond, Sr. Warden 44.90
Clayton C. Morse, Jr. Warden
Carl C. Mikesell, Inspector and
Past Master............................ ,......... 44.90
Long Beach.......................... N o. 327.... Herbert G. Polhill, Master................ 34.10
William J. Burgin, Sr. Warden
Clark H. Shaw, Inspector and
Past Master .................................... 34.10
Edwin T. Date, Past Master
Chas. A. Weise, Past Master
Redondo................................ No. 328 .... Samuel Pinkerton, Sr. Warden........ 34.10
Valle de France.................. No. 329 .... Gaston Bollaert, Master.................. 34.10
Kilauea .........,........................ No. 330:... Chas. A. Shepherd, Representative
and Past Master, Inspector...... 283.00
Pacific Grove...................... No. 331.. .. George H. Schuyler, Master............ 7.20
Frank C. Higgins, Sr. Warden
Chas. Kirkham Tuttle, Inspector
and Past Master.............................. 7.20
Wm. Roy LaPorte, Past Master
H. J. Beauford, Past Master
Claude 0. Higgins, Past Master
Edwin K. Cope, Past Master
San Pedro ............................ No. 332 .... John Ramsay, Master........................ 34.10
Clyde Storey, Sr. Warden
Alta ........................................ No. 333 .... Arthur A. DeChambeau, Master.... 39.32
John D. Murphy, Past Grand
Master
Covina ................................... No. 334 .... Wm. G. Southwell, Sr. Warden.... 35.60
West Gate............................ No. 335 .... Benj. J. Scheinman, Master.......... 34.10
John W. Lucas, Sr. Warden
·Max Lichtenstein, Jr. Warden
Fruitvale............................... No. 336 .... James C. Holland, Master
Samuel L. Hancock, Sr. Warden
Frank E. Howell, Jr. Warden
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Carquinez............................. No. 337 .... Harry H. Polen, Master..................
1.50
Otis I. Oliver, Sr. Warden
Jacob E. Hughes, Inspector and
Past Master
Thomas Edwards, Past Master
James King, Past Master
San Jacinto...............,.......... No. 338 .... C. Harry Pool, Master...................... 41.64
Fullerton.............................. No. 339 .... Cory George Hoff, Master.............. 35.54
Earl Snyder, Jr. Warden
H. C. McMaster, Inspector and
Past Master ........................................ 35.54
Oxnard................................•. No. 341.. .. Chas. R. Havens, Sr. Warden........ 30.10
Duron Keir, Jr. Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

251

San Fernando..................... No. 343 .... George H. Carr, Master.................... 32.80
Harry J. L. duChene, Sr. Warden
Starr King .......................... No. 344 .... Hal Curtis, Master
Armand Houmann, Sr. Warden
Milton Zimmerman, Jr. Warden
Clyde C. Hinshaw, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Chas. M. Wollenberg, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Master
and Inspector
Leland S. Bright, Past Master
Haiman L. Wayne, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master
and Sr. Grand Deacon
3.40
Brentwood ............................ No. 345 .... Shirley S. Summers, Master............
Falto Alto......................... ~.N o. 346 .... Carroll L. ·Blacker, Master................
2.32
A. N. Humphreys, Past Master
McKinley..................... -..... _No. 347.... Leon Michel, Master..........................
1.00
Joseph W. Garside, Sr. Warden
San Bernardino.................. No. 348 .... Mark M. Sinsabaugh, Master.......... 37.60
Willis A. Inman, Sr. Warden
Geo. Feetham, Inspector and Past
Master .............................................. 37.60
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Grand
Master .............................................. 34.10
Sequoia ............. :....... -.......... No. 349 .... Frederic B. Zimmerman, Master
Fred C. Granholt, Sr. Warden
Donald M. Hughes, Jr. Warden
Cyril Wesley McClean, Past Master and Jr. Grand Deacon
Wesley W. Kergan, Past Master
and Inspector
Earl Warren, Grand Master
Edward Floyd Hughes, Past
Master.
John Ryle MacGregor, Past Master
Arthur G. Smith, Past Master
Albert D. Beuttel, Past Master
Clifford L. Irish, Past Master
Palestine............................... No. 351.. .. Arthur Spencer, Master.................... 34.10
Thos. J. McDonald, :Past Master
Basil Jordan, Past Master
Sunset .................................. No. 352 .... Edward W. Hart, Master
Rollie W. Miller, Past Master and
Deputy Grand Master..........!......... 34.10
Loyd C. Campbell, Grand Master
and Inspector .................................. 34.10
Wm. K. Schofield, Grand Master
Ernest G. Bashor, Grand Master
Samuel E. Burke, Past Master and
Past Grand Master........................ 34.10
Pinole.................................... No. 3§3 .... Coy G. Havely, Master....................
1.10
George W. Pfeiffer, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Presidio......•......................... No. 354.... Glanville A. Stockhausen, Master
Russell 0. Majors, Sr. Warden .
Chas. R. Cooper, Past Master
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector
Frank G. Watson, Past Master
and Grand Tyler
Emil G. Wunner, Past Master
William A. Sherman, Past Grand
Master
Louis E. Boivin, Past Master _
Hollywood.......,..................• No. 355 ....Wm. W. Skelton, Master................ 34.10
Marion S. Hull, Sr. Warden
·
Leo E. Anderson, Jr. Warden
Wm. B. Ogden, Inspector and
Past Master .................................... 34.10
D. F. Black, Past Master
Mill Valley.....·-··········-·'····N o. 356.... Herbert A. Klyce, Master................
1.22
R. T. Lawrence, Sr. Warden
Fred A. Penn, Past Master
A. F. Thomas, Past Master
Alonzo Coffin, Past Master
A. K. Harvey, Past Master
Kent J. C. Seymour, Past Master
and Inspector
Buena Park...·-····-..··-······-No. 357...,Isaac W. Crandell, Master.............. 35.40
Golden State...._.................. No. 358.... George W. Mann, Master................ 34.10
Valentine R. Viall, Sr. Warden
John F. Bourne, Past Master and
Inspector ....................................:....... _34JI
Arthur B. Dittman, Past Master
Ben G. Wright, Past Master.......... 34.10
Wm. A. Schreider, Past Master
Loyalton............................No. 359.... Axel Nasholm, Master...................... 25.10
J. S. Conklin, Inspector and Past
Master .............................................. 25.10
San Francisco..................... No. 360.... William F. Jebe, Master
Alfred B. Edwards, Jr. Warden
Earle Freeman, Past Master
Henry D. Oliphant, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
Fort Bragg................- ....- ...No. 361.... Norman G. Johnson, Past Master
and Representative and Inspector ...................................................... 17.92
Charity....................- ......--:.... No. 362.... Mark S. Stocker, Master.................. 2.90
Berkeley..................... _......... No. 363.... Frank A. Fielitz, Master
Howard S. Neighbor, Sr. Warden
G. Vernon Harris, Jr. Warden
Chas. A. McKelvey, Past Master
D. C. Jones, Past Master
Wi11its..._.............................. N o. 365 .... A. B. Guslander, Representative,
and Past Master and Inspector.. 12.82
La• Palmas....................'....• No. 366.... Douglas A. May, Master.................. 15.30
Roy H. Gerard, Sr. Warden
Andrew Whitmer Horn, Past
Master
J as. R. Erskine, Past Master

South Pasadena................... No. 367....John H. Wood, Sr. Warden............ 34.60
George D. Bragonier, Past Master
Horace E. Vedder, Inspector and
Past Master .................................... 34.60
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity..................................... No. 368.... Alphonso W. Tower, Master.......... 33.70
D wight W. Stephenson, Inspector
.
and Past Master.............................. 34.10
Ocean Park....................._.No. 369.... Glenn W. Gurtner, Master.............. 34.10
M. A. Deemer, Jr. Warden
.
Homer D . Peek, Past Master
Amity....................,.........-r...···No. 370.... Emil N. Wiander, Master
Urban D. Mackins, Sr. Warden
Leigh Whitshell, Jr. Warden
Nathaniel 0 . Slate, Past Master
Henry 0. Hammerish, Past Master
·
Russel Irvin Wisler, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanie..... No. 371.. ...Maurice A. Bott, Master.................. 250.00
Alexander D. Potts, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 250.00
Gardena........·-··'···········'··..·· No. 372.... N ot represented ·
Veteran.................•............... No. 373....W. H. Riley, Sr. Warden................ 34.10
·
Theron E. Coe, Past Master
Jewel............,...........,........._, No. 374....Edgar M. Campbell, Master
Thomas Parry, Sr. Warden
Chas. Crawford, Jr. Warden
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Chas. E. Anderson, · Past Master
and Grand Organist
Curtis Benton, Past Master
John H. Adams, Past Master
·
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Richmond ............................. No. 375.... Ross L. Perkins, Master
Dr. Robert Wm. Price, Sr. Warden
Emil K. Bender: Jr. Warden
Geo. F. Sand, Past Master
J. H. Conner, Past Master
Ernest L. Fischer, Past Master
Wm. A. J ohnson, Past Master
James L. Halley, Past Master
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
Francis Drake.................... No. 376....Franklin A. Dominy, Master
Herman P. Scampini, Sr. Warden
Artesia.................................. No. 377....James Alderson, Master.................... 35.20
Franklin D. Caldwell, Inspector
and Past Master............................. 35.20
Mizpah.................................. No. 378.... 0tto A. Kaulbars, Master...............: 34.10
Lawrence J. Hall, Sr. Warden
Fillmore................................ No. 379.... Ronald A. Ritchie, Master................ 31.10
Harry D. Felsenthal, Sr. Warden
Caesar T. Mumme, Jr. Warden ·
Huntington Beai:h.............. No. 380....R. . E. Mcintosh, Master.................... 36.60
Carl Leue, Sr. Warden
Oceanside .............................. No. 381....Joe Giro, Jr. Warden........................ 41.00
George A. Otis, Inspector and
Past Master .................................... 41.00

252

253

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Highland Park................... No. 382 .... Chas. 0. Brittain, Master................ 34.10
'
Warren R. Tait, Sr. Warden
Wm. Taylor, Past Master
Harold Fraser Weller, Past Master
Millard M. Mier, Past Master
Orosi...·-······························· No. 383 .... A. R. Martin, Master........................ 17.70
El Centro............................. No. 384.... Harry R. Sones, Sr. Warden.......... 51.72
Chas. E. Sones, Past Master.......... 51.72
Chas. Henry Knights, Inspector
and Past Master.............................. 51.72
John Stewart Ross, Past Master
and Past Grand Master................ 34.10
L. P. Alexander, Past Master
Dinuba................................... No. 385 .... Reuben M. Wright, Master............ 17.08
Walter F. Hellbaum, Sr. Warden
Clarence L. Fraser, Inspector and
Past Master ............................:....... 17.08
Coalinga................................ No. 387 .... M. Franklin Spurlock, Sr. Warden 20.50
Parnassus ............................. No. 388 .... Samuel Miller, Master
Edward J. Willig, Sr. Warden
George E. Kimball, Jr. Warden
K. B. Hoppe, Past Master
Palos Verdes ...................... No. 389.... William Lyttle, Master.................... 34.10
D. Leroy Leatart, Sr. Warden
Ernest E. Archer, Past Master
Imperial................................ No. 390 .... C. C. Rodgers, Sr. Warden............ 51.72
East Belt... ........................... No. 391.. .. William B. Armstrong, Master.... 8.94
Jas. F. Cooper, Past Master
West Lake............................ No. 392 .... Sylvester Chas. Boarman, Master 34.10
Stanley Cowin, Sr. Warden
Lee Theron Mullen, Past Master 34.10
Chas. E. Listenwalter, Past Master
and Grand Sword Bearer............ 34.10
Wm. Theodore Osterholt, Past
Master
Walter Louis Berger, Past Master 34.10
John E. Hill, Past Master
Balder ......................•............. No. 393 .... Clarence H. Peterson, Master
Clarence D. Lindstrom, Sr.
Warden
University ....................... ~... No. 394.... John F. Bissell, Master.................... 34.10
Frederick Wm. Morris, Jr., Sr.
Warden
J. Ross Lindsay, Past Master
Wentworth A. Wolfe, Past Master
Edward A. Brown, Past Master
Turlock. ................................ No. 395 .... Roy M. Day, Master........................ 6.60
·
Harry 0. Carlson, Inspector and
Past Master .................................... 6.60
Apollo...................................No. 396 .... 0scar G. Lake, Master
Albert S. Ridley, Sr. Warden
Edwin G. Nelson, Jr. Warden
Oscar Robert Presco, Past Master
J. A. Harris, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

255

Rising Light........................ No. 3Y7 .... Leslie V. Hughes, Master............ 34.10
Roy 0. Yost, Sr. Warden
R. Floyd Marshall, Past Master
Walter D. Piper, Past Master
Fratemity............................. No. 399 .... Ray W. Mcintyre, Jr. Warden....
2.50
Fred L. Thomas, Past Master
Burlingame.......................... No. 400.... Hugh B. Dobbs, Master................
1.42
Frank A. Bloom, Sr. Warden
William Wilkin, Past Master
Walter L. Scott, Past Master
Samuel L. Hawken, Past Master
and Inspector
Bay View............................ No. 401.. .. Samuel W. Gardiner, Master
Alfred F. Virden, Sr. Warden
John C. Jordan, Jr. Warden
Harold M. Bankhead, Past Master
Fred Wm. Wetmore, Past Master
Eugene D. Sellers, Past Master
Charles Kimble, Past Master
H. E. Jarman, Past Master
D. R. Blade, Past Master
Brawley................................ No. 402 .... Gifford T. Randolph, Master........ 51.30
Leon R. Brandt, Sr. Warden
Yerba· Buena ....................... No. 403 .... Albert B. Cosad, Past Master and
Representative
Turner McAllaster, Past Master
and Inspector
Glendora............................... No. 404 .... Floren C. Stites, Master................ 35.80
Moneta.................................. No. 405 .... Walter T. Larter, Master ................ 34.10
Sidney J. Holland, Past Master
Otto A. Stoltz, Past Master
Burbank................................ No. 406.... Heman P. Edgerly, Senior
Warden ............................................ 33.40
La Mesa... -.......................... No. 407 .... Alton Knox McCall, Sr. Warden 42.68
Sierra Madre...................... No. 408 .... Marion L. Hays, Master................ 34.90
Honolulu............................... No. 409 .... Basil E. Fenn-Anstruther, Jr ......... 250.00
Warden
Charter Rock .................... No. 410 .... Roy M. Mc Hale, Master
Matthew Morton, Jr., Sr. Warden
Chas. W. Stannard, Jr. Warden
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
William D. Wisdom, Past Master
Frank W. Plant, Past Master
Perris .................................... No. 411.. .. Harry Hagen, Sr. Warden ............ 38.88
Calexico................................ No. 412 .... T. E. Pledger, St. Warden............ 51.72
Waucoba ............................... No. 413 .... Ira W. Uhlmeyer, Master............ 47.30
Wm. L. Davis, Inspector ' and
Past Master .................................... 47.30
Arlington.............................. No. 414 .... Lester C. Potts, Master................ 34.10
Fred G. Crawford, Sr. Warden
Silver Trowel...................... No. 415 .... Warren D. Baker, Master............ 34.10
John R. Flood, Sr. Warden
William F. King, Past Master
Lindsay ................................. No. 416.... John Henry Mercer, Master........ 18.78
Lester L. Lighthall, Sr. Warden
Clovis........ :........................... No. 417 .... John Ivan Polson, Jr. Warden.... 16.10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Elysian............................- .... No. 418.... Harry L. J. Nicholas, Master.... 34.10
Walter B. Stearns, Sr. Warden
Nelson E. Turpin, Jr. Warden
Robert F. Callender, Past Master
Upland.................................. No. 419.... Harland P . Horak, Sr. Warden.... 36.60
W. R. Farmer, Past Master and
Inspector ················-···········- ······· 36.60 ·
Kerman................................. No. .420.... R. H. Sherwood, Master................ 14.60
Inglewood............................. No. 421....Lulan M. Irvine, Sr. Warden........ 34.10
Frank R. Wolter, Past Master
James H. Kew, Past Master
Fred R. Pardee, Past Master and
Inspector ·······················--·····-········ 34.10
Eagle Rock.........:................ No. 422.... Vivian Lyle, Master.....................-... 34.10
York...................................... No. 423.... Michael J . Rochowicz, Master........ 34.10
Exeter..................... _............ No. 424.... Paul H. King, Master.................... 18.38
C. L. Burnett, Past Master
Frank W. Mixter, Past Master
· and Past Grand Master.................. 18.38
Holtville................................No. 425 .... Carlton Morford, Past Master and
Representative .............................. 51.72
J. R. Snyder, Past Master
E. V. Edwards, Past Master
Midway................................. No. 426.... R. G. Dixon, Sr. Warden................. 26.60
Chino Valley........................ No. 427 .... Harrie L. Benjamin, Sr. Warden.... 36.50
San Dimas........................... No. 428.... Ronald F. Williams, Sr. Warden.... 35.90
W. ]. Gregg, Past Master
Arthur E. Tangeman, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 35.90
Pittsburg.............................. No. 429 .... William Walter King, Master........ .2.76
E. Fred Anderson, Jr. Warden
Harry W . Reinhart, Past Master
McCloud...............................No. 430.... Percy W. Lindt, Sr. Warden.......... 25.60
C. S. Hogan, Past Master and
Inspector ..................................,....... 25.00
Alpha.................................... No. 43L..William F. Fraser, Master
Carl F. La Vo, Sr. Warden
Frank E. Bronson, Jr. Warden
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master
Harry E. Hammond, Past Master
William P. Self, Past Master
George M. Clarke, Past Master
Hutt Brown, Past Master .
Hammonton......................... No. 433.... Guy Wm. Coats, Master.................. 8.70
J. Clarence Gray, Past Master
Maricopa.............................. No. 434.... Chas. E. Dower, Sr. Warden............ 26.30
Fairmount............................ No. 435.... Ralph H. Ruppert, Master
Robert E. Blinn, Sr. Warden
Edward C. Binder, Jr. Warden
Rudolph Illing, Past Master
Ralph Wm. McDonald, Past Master
Pieter A. de Vries, Past Master
Claremont............................. No. 436.... Benjamin F. Abbott, Mastec.......... 36.30
Lancaster.............................. No. 437.... Herbert ·B. Sutton, Sr. Warden ...,.. 29.30
Hans G. Nelson,. Past Master
Acacia................................. No. 438.... Karl L.: Ratzer, Master and
Inspector ....................................:..... 34.10
Hermann Kaestner, Sr. Warden

Tyrian................................... No. 439 ....William Farrer, Sr. Warden.......... 4.80
Standard.......
No. 440....Vernon W . Greenwaldt, Sr. Warden
Fred J. Degan, Jr. Warden
DeMille M. Campbell, Past Master
Chas. B. Olds, Past Master
Wesley P. Relfe, Past Master
Wm. F. Wood, Past Master
Coronado.....................,........ No. 441.... Harvey E. Burkhardt, Master........ 42.68
Harry S. Clark, Past Master and
Inspector ......- ..........................!..... 42.68
R. F. Bruske, Past Master
Blackmer:..........................-No. 442.... 0scar E. Hanson, Master.................. 42.68
Warren E. Libby, .Past Master........ 34.10
Harry R. Atwood, Past Master
Schofield........- ..................... No. 443 ....John Rust, Senior Warden.............. 250.00
.Carpinteria........................... No. 444.... John B. Hudson, Master.................... 27.50
Henry Milne, Sr. Warden
Chas. Curtis, Past Master
Thornton M. Shorkley, Past Master
·Wilshire:.............................. No. 445 ....J ohn A. Klarquist, Master................ 34.10
Tom A. Dille, Past Master and
·
Inspector .......................................... 34.10
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master........ 34.10
Warren D. Gill, Past Master and
'Grand Pursuivant .......................... 34.70
Will H. Fischer, Past Grand
Master .............................................. 34.10
La Puente............................ No. 446.... Ear! I. Van Atta, Jr. Warden........ 35.30
Torrance...'............................ No. 447....Willis M. Brooks, Sr. Warden.......... 34.10
Mt. Diablo........................... No. 448.... Ray L. Copeland, Sr. Warden........ 2.40
Merton H. Newhall, Jr. Warden
E. A. Palmer, Past Master
Park...................:..:............... No. 449 .... Arthur L. Hillman, Master
Robert K. Huppert, Jr. Warden
Foster G;. Dyer, Past Master and
Inspector
Reginald Duden, Past Master
Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Van Nuys....~................:...... No. 450.... Harold S. Morrison, Master............ 34.10
· ·
Herbert W. Walker, Past Master
and Inspector ................................ 34.10
Montebello.......:................... No. 451.... Leslie H. Bentson, Master.............. 34.10
Christian A. Jensen, Sr. Warden
San PasquaL..................... No. 452.... Theo. J. Sowerby, Master................ 34.90
Fred E. Geibel, Sr. Warden
Walter F. Kress, Past Master
Bethlehem............................ No, 453 .... Theodore G. Atwood, Master
Chas. E. Heberer, Sr. Warden
Crocker........;........................ No. 454.... Royden K. Freidrichs, Master
Peter J. Barsi; Sr. Warden
John Livingston, Jr. Warden
George Watson, Past Master.
Robert H. Turner, Past Master
George C. Chamberlain, Past
Master
James G. Allan, .P ast Master
William A. Jaques1 Past Master.
George E. Archer, Past Master
¥

. . . .: . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . .

257

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Goiden WesL ..:.....:.,......... No. 455 .... Frank C. Edmonds, Master ·
; ·
H. L. Scheppler, Sr. Warden ·
Norman Reed, Jr. Warden
G. Robt. Brockman, Past Master
Wm. D. Wisdom, Past Master
George E. Chapin, Past Master
.
Harry Edwin Allen, Past Master
Rari\ona.......:..:............;..... -N6. 457.... Earl E. Sawyer, Master.................... 34.60
Arlan E. DeBurn, Jr. Warden
Wilbert J. Stewart, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 34.80
.
Norman W. Giesy, Past Master
Henry S. Orme ............... :.. No. 458 .... Valla G. Chessman, Master.............. 34.10
Peter P. Novotny, Sr. Warden
Frederick C. Warner, Past Master
and Inspector ................ :............... 34.10
Allen L. Knickrehm, Past Master
Riverbank ............................. No. 459 .... Stanley D. Elliott, Jr. Warden...... 6.30
Mount Oso.......................... No. 460 .... Geotge Wadsworth, Sr. Warden.... 3.90
Argonaut.. .....................:...... No. 461.. .. Edwin J. Barshell, Master
·
J. Denison McCue, Sr. Warden
Arthur P. Shapro, Jr. Warden
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Harry P. Rothermel, Past Master
Jos. A. Blackford, Past Master
.
. . Chas. A. Rice, Past Master
Paul Revere ... ,..... :.............. No: 462 .... John 'Cox, Master
·
Robert L. Duncan, Sr. Warden
Joel H. Springer, Jr. Warden
John C. Oslin, Past Master
Wm. A. Gerder, Past Master
Jacob W. Warshaw, Past Master
Morgan Hill... ....:............... No. 463.... Louis Rosso, Sr. Warden................ 3.80
Alta Vista ............................ No. 464.... Earl L. Bagot, Master
William A. Foster, Sr. Warden
Harry L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Glenn W. Clifford, Past Master
Center..............'···'···'········'····No. 465 .... Chas. Walter Manly, Sr. \Yarden 15.30
Jose E. Mergenthaler, Jr. Warden
S. E. Dollar, Past Master and
.
Inspector .........................~................ 15.30
Libertas....,........... :................ No. 466 .... Clyde E. Mcilwain, Master............ 22.80
Alan B. Parker, Sr. Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 22.80
Culver City....,....::........... _.. No. 467 .... Harold Nelson Cool, Sr. Warden 34.10
Chas. J. Rodney, Jr. Warden
Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
and Inspector ................................ 34.10
Allan W. Courtney, Past Master
Rockridge.:.: ..:......"··············No. 468 .... William E. Harris, Master
Thor G. Nordlund, Sr. Warden
Henry F. Howland, Past Master
Douglas G. Montell, Past Master
Willard W. Shea, Past Master
Yorha LindJl....-.:................. No. 469 .... Arthur F. Dyckman, Master............ 36.10

Lincoln .................................,No. 470 .... 0scar A. Huber, Master
Albert Springer, Sr., Sr. Warden
Shirley C. Forsey, Jr. Warden
Arthur M. Joel, Past Master and
Inspector
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Delta,....•....•.......•.........,,..:..•... No. 471.. .. C. J. Hironymous, Master..............
4.76
MauL ........... ~ ...:...... :,........... No. 472 .... Ahoon H. Wong, Sr. Warden .......... 272.00
Blythe.......................•.......... .,;No. 473 .... L. H. Rains, Master ...................... 51.58
Victory... _.................... :....... No. 474 .... Clarence S. Farris, Master
·
Albin B. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Ch.as. A. Cooper, Past Master
W. H. Dutton, Past Master
.
America ................................ No. 475 .....Paul Save, Past Master and Representative ...................................... 34.10
Coachella... ,......•................... No. 476 .... Robert McCauley, Sr. Warden...... 45.60
Templor ................................ No. 477.... John L. Stephens, Master.................. 27.10
A. G. Hawthorne, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 27.10
Thousand Oaks.................. No. 478 .... 0tto L. Zeus, Master
Chas. H. Linford, Sr. Warden
R. P. Wisecarver, Jr. Warden
Raymond B. Giles, Past Master
Virgil P. Gibson, Past Master
Golden Rule ......................... No. 479 .... Leon E. Allen, Master........................ 2.50
Arthur H. Rhoads, Past Master
Jos. C. Boschken, Past Master
Morris Jensen, Past Master
Fellowship............................ No. 480 .... Claude A. Hunter, Master
Chester H. Treichel, Sr. Warden
Mt. Davidson...................... No. 481....Joseph L. Mayers, Master
Paul N. Moore, Sr. Warden
Harry J. Neubarth, Jr. Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Past Master
and Inspector
Clarence F. Smith .............. No. 482 .... G. Palmer Byrkit, Master................ 34.10
Robert J. Cairns, Sr. Warden
Frank G. Falloon, .Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 34.10
Bell .......................................• No. 483 .... William H. Dalrymple, Master...... 34.10
John C. Douglass, Sr. Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
Albert Pike .......................... No. 484..... Grover C. Zimmerman, Master...... 34.10
George T. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Chowchilla............................ N o. 485 .... N ot represented
Caledonia .............................. No. 486 ....Claud H. Ashen, Master.................. 22.80
Walter N. Moore, Sr. Warden
Norval D. Cleghorn, Past Master
George McHugh, Past Master
Frank A. Bartlett, Past Master
Homer Z. Myers, Past Master
V~Uejo .................................. No. 487 .... Virgil V. Lee, Master..........................
1.60
Max Chas. Schmoekel, Sr. Warden
Lloyd Bennett, Jr. Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, Past Master
and Inspector ..................................
1.60
Harry M. Rowe, Past Master
Frederick B. Hall, Past Master
G. Harrison Crane, Past Master

258

259

•

260

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Patterson...............- .............. No. 488 .... Walter L. Isom, Sr. Warden......... . 5.50
East Bay..........- ...... _.......... No. 489 ....John M. Rush, Sr. Warden
John J . .Menges, Jr. Warden
John H. Bertram, Past Master
Roy H. Parkinson, Past Master
David S. Roberts, Past Master
Corcoran...·-·······'········--·····.. No. 490 .... Willard R. Engvall, Sr. Warden 18.24
L. S. Randolph, Past Master
Woodstock.................~ .....,; ...No. 49i....Philip L. Lanzit, Master
Augustus D. Zimmerman, Sr.
· Warden
Theodore S. Hersey, Past Master
Chas. J. Runstrom, Past Master
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master
Edmund G. Hathaway, Past Master
R. W. Parkinson, Past'Master
Garvanza..;..,-..,................... No. 492 .... Paul E. Showalter, Sr. Warden ....... . 34.10
. .
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
Atascadero......................... No. 493 .... Edwin D. Jarvis, Sr'. Warden ......... . 13.20
Fred Chas. Hess, Past Master
Acorn. ........... •········-·'········-·No. 493 ....James E . Gale, Master
Ralph Adams, Jr. Warden
. Chas. M. Herkenham, Past Master
Clarence M. Lake, Past Master
Reginald V. Joste, Past Master
Lebanon ................................ No. 495 .... Harry A. Greenberg, Master
Riverdale.............................. No. 496 .... Harry L. Smith, Sr. Warden ......... . 16.70
Fremont................................ No. 497 .... Hcmer /I. Buck, Past Master
Cl'et C '.'~'l rr is, Past Master and
I ·1sppc ' or
Stockton...- ........................... No. 498 .... Augtist _T. T u!y, Master ................... . 4.76
Capital ~ity ......................... No. 499 .... James II. n · i~h, Past Master and
Repr 00 "nta tive ............................... . 5.10
W. Del Richards, Past Master and
·
Inspector ............... :......................... . 5.10
Roosevelt... ........................... No. 500 .... Chas. A. Ertola, Master
Benito Galli, Jr. Warden
Joseph Scannell, Past Master
Otto G. Huth, Past Master
.
Niles E. Johnson, Past Master
Westwood.....;...........,........... No. 501.. .. Emmett E. Rader, Master ............... . 24.62
W. Norman Lindersmith, Past
Master and Inspector .................... 24.62
Harbor .................................. No. 502 .... Herbert L. Hunn, Master ................. . 1.00
·
Chas. E. Pickering, Sr. Warden
Frank H. 'Wilkins, Past Master
Point......................................No. 503 .... Cyrus M. Nielsen, Master.. ............. . 1.00
.
Chas. ]. Peterson, ·Past Master
Seaside......... :·····-····-·········- No. 504 .... Milo Phelps, Master.......................... 34.10
·
Wm. J. Courtiour, Past Master
and Inspector .............................. .. 34.10
W. B. Corbusier, Past Master
Silver Cord......._. .................. No. 505 .... Frank C. Arnum, Sr. Warden ......... . 35.80
Moµnt Olive,..... ,............,..,... No. 506 .... Fred A. Kelsey, Master ................... . 34.10
Elmer N. Woolf, Sr. Warden
Allen M. Watt, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

261

El Segundo.......................... No. 507 .... McClew Randolph; Master.............. · 34.10.
Frank E. Anderson, Sr. Warden
Joppa-. ..................................... No. 508 .... Modest C. Franchini, Jr. Warden 14.80
Benjamin Franklin ............ No. 509 .... William R. Ream, Master................ 34.10
Morris J. McCauley, St; w ·ardert
Cupertino.............................. No. 510 .... Raymond H. Berry, Mast~r............ 2.82
John R. Kamp, Sr. Warden
Earlston L. Maddocks, Jr. Warden
I. A. Ball, Past Master
Glenn L. Allen, Past Master· ..
Sunnyvale............................. No. 51 L ..A. W. Trubschenck, Sr. Warden....
2.82
Joseph B. Kehl, Past Master
Robert Rankin, Past Master .
Palms .................................... No. 512 ....J ulius G. W ehrfritb, Master •.."·'····· 34.10
Cahuenga.............................. No. 513 .... Clarence Champagne, Master.......... 34.10
Roy C. Bryan, Past Master
Argonne.....................·-····--No. 514 .... Lloyd I. Tarleton, Master
Edw. ]. Jose, Sr. Warden
James V. Clancy, Jr. Warden
Henry G. Mathewson,. Past Master
and Grand Marshal
Sam H. Hardin, Past Master
·
John H. Turner, Past Master
Vermont Square................. No. 515 .... Chester A. Reese, Master................ 34.10
Robert W. Imrie, Sr. Warden
Taft... ....................·-··-··········No. 516.... Henry F. Letlow, Master..•·-····· 26.60
Mount Vernon .................... No. 517 .... Leland E. Langdon, Master
Richard F. Fletcher, Sr. Warden
E. G. Reichstetter, Jr. Warden
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Alva V. Sligar, Past Master
La Jolla..................... _..... _ ..No. 518. ...Winfred Judsen Regal, Master.... 42.68
Euclid .................................... No. 519 .... Harold L. Paisley, Sr. Warden.... 34.10
James J. Montareo, Past Master
Ionic....................................... No. 520 .... Harold C. Roddan, Master............ 34.10
H. David Cherman, Sr. Warden
Piedmont.............................. No. 521....Francis G. Tallman, Master
V. F. Greaves, Sr. Warden
R. H. Chamberlain, Past Master
H. S. Shuey, Past Master
. . .
Sunrise.................................. No. 522.... Thomas E. Hines, Master............ 34.10
Walter E. Toole, Past . Master
John D. Hartup, Past Master
Bellflower............................. No. 523.... George McCormick, Master............ 34.60
Calvin P. Crawhall, Sr. Warden
.
Erich H. Fredericks, Past Master
Catalina lsland ................. No. 524 .... Harold M. Warner, Master........ 38.60
Oliver G. Greenbaum, Sr. Warden
George Washington............ No. 525 .... Edward Achstetter, Master
Alfred L. Bosse, Sr. Warden
John Johnson, Past Master
Bay City............................... No. 526 .... Thomas A. Dethlefsen, Master
Jack A. Seaman, Sr. Warden
Edgar Meyer, Past Master
Covenant............................... No. 527 •... Earl M. Dickerson, Sr. Warden.... 34.10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

Beverly Hills ...................... No. 528....Wiley E. Williamson, Master........ 34.10
James Savage, Sr. Warden
Frank Hartwell, Jr. Past Master
John Bookman, Past Master
Loyalty....................•............. N o. 529.... Eugene J. Simonetti, Master........ 34.10
.
Nat C. Green, Sr. Warden
Sun Garden.......................... No. 530 ....John E . Moore, Jr., Sr. Warden 15.30
Herbert R. Hargrave, Past Master
and Inspector ................................ 15.30
Alexandria............................ No. 531.... Frank G. Hobbs, Past Master and
A ssistant Grand Secretary.
Frederick D. McAttee, Past Master
Smyrna..................................No. 532....J. Arthur Stone, Sr. Warden ........ 6.10
Azure...................................._No. 533....James Shaw, Master.......•.....•.......... 35.54
Clyde Wm. Trotter, Sr. Warden
Forest Hill........................... No. 534....Al~xander Findlay, Master
Richard E. Tabor, Jr. Warden
Oliver A. Haberdier, Past Master
Alexander Hu.milton..........No. 535 ....William U. Handy, Sr. Warden 34.10
Seal Rock. ........................... No. 536.... Wm. R. Hamilton, Master
George R. Finnigan, Sr. Warden
J. L. Webber, Jr. Warden
Gus Wm. Kramer, Past Master
Utopia....................................No. 537 .... Leonard A. Dotson, Sr. Warden.... 34.10
James A. Blanchard, Past Master
Ascot....................·-··········-·· No. 538....J ohn B. Tubbs, Master.................... 34.10
Elias E. Owens, Sr. Warden
Belvedere.............................. No. 539.... Harry F. Tucker, Master ............ 34.10
Jesse D. Ramsey, Sr. Warden
E. E. Van Buren, Jr. Warden
Queen Beach..·-················-·No. 540....James S. Terry, Master .................. 34.10
Henry Morse Stephens.... No. 541.. .. Malcolm H ansen, Master
George E. Fullerton, Sr. Warden
Wilson E. Newlon, Jr. Warden
Mark Sawrie, Past Master
Harold Conklin, Past Master and
Sr. Grand Steward
Joseph L. Banville, Past Master
Lankershim....................•..... No. 542.... Roy E. T arr, Master ........................ 34.10
Signal...............-................... No. 543....Theo. A. Reynolds, Master .............. 34.10
Wilfred L. Shumate, Sr. Warden
Glendale................................ No. 544....Willard A. Roberts, Master ............ 33.70
Jonathan ............................... No. 545 ....William Miller Mills, Master
Chas. G. Ure, Sr. Warden
Paul Genzken, Jr. W arden
San GabrieL.......................No. 546.... Frank A. Palmer, Master ................ 34.70
Warren D. Gill, Grand Pursuivant 34.70
Arcadia ................................. No. 547.... Hugh A. Allen, Master.................... 34.90
Triangle................................No. 548.... Robin C. McClinton, Master............ 34.10
Justice.....:..............................No. 549.... Arthur H. Cordes, Master
Frank M. Scott, Sr. Warden
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Ralph 0. Biedenbach, Fast Master

Seaport..................................No. 550.... Chas. F. Knipe, Master
J ohn D. McReynolds, Sr. Warden
Walter H. E. von Kansky, Past
Master and Inspector
John Alpers, . Past Master
Anthony J . Spatafore, Past Master
O tto A. H oltzen, P ast Master
Lakeshore.............................No. 551.... Howard S. Gerrish, Master
Carl E. Turner, Sr. W arden
Chas. C. Buckley, J r. W arden
Sylvam H . Gyle, Past Master
Thomas M. Lewis, P ast Master
John R. McKalip, Past Master
J ohn R. Wood, Past Master
J oseph A. Sullivan, Past Master
Semper Virens.................... No. 552.... Edward H . Van Vlack, Sr.
Warden ............................................ 23.42
Golden City........:.................No. 553 .... Arthur F. Lewis, Master
Educator............................... No. 554.... Ralph M. Small, Master
Byron D. White, Sr. Warden
Max B. Wilson, Jr. Warden
White Pine...........................No. 555....Stanley E. Hedg e, Sr. W arden.... 24.20
Fairfax................................. N o. 556.... C. Lester Coval t, Master ................
1.38
Orrick McDearmon, Sr. W arden
Frank Happersberger, Past Master
Earl S. W hite, Past Master
Hermosa............................... No. 557.... Roy C. Stewart, Sr, W arden ........ 34.10
Point Fjrmin........................N o. 558.... Lambuth C. Stephenson, Master.. 34.10
Carl R. Peterson, Sr. Warden
Craftsma n............•............. No. 559....J oseph C. Griffin, Master................ 34.10
P . J. O ' Donnell, Sr. Warden
·
Plymouth...........................No. 560.... H arold G. Crew, Master
Fred L. Waters, Sr. Warden
Oliver M. P ace, Jr. W arden
Walter I. Kuykendall, Past Master
Herbert A. Adams, Past Master
Joseph J, Lagler, Past Master
Chas. K. Baxley, Past Master
East San Diego..................No. 561.... Chas. N. Bernard, Sr. Warden ........ 42.68
P yramid .............................N o. 562.... Claudius A. Marckley, Master
E ugene A. Tipton, J r., Warden
A. W. Archibald, Past Master
E. J. Portello, Past Master
A. G. Middleton, Past Master
T . E. Harris, Past Master
South Park........................N o. 563.... H ugh E. Moor, Master .................... 34.10
Newton D. High, Past Master
James F. Hood, Past Master
David W . Bosserman, Past Master
F oothill...............................No. 564.... Benj. L. Miller, M:ister
H enry Towne, Sr. Warden
Elmer W. J ackson, Jr. W arden
A. Melvin Lyons, Past Master
West Adams ..................... No. 565 ....William H. McKibbin, Sr. W arden 34.10
James A. Garfield .............. No. 566.... Ralph 0. Chick, Master.................... 34.10
Albert M. Niblo, Sr. Warden
Halcott B. Thomas, Past Master

262

26J

264

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Searchlight ...........................No. 367 .... Rex G. Sands, Master........................ 34.10
·
Donald W. West, Sr. Warden
Clarence J. Hill, Past Master
Park Boulevard.................. N o. 568.... Paul C. Romberger, Master
Emmett H. Hart, Jr. Warden
James E. Hammond, Past Master
Inspector
John McSweyn, Past Master
f Arch Gilfillan, Past Master
Chateau Thjerry......... ,.....No. 569 .... Eugene J. Ralston, Sr. Warden
Herbert A. Smith, Jr. Warden
Ray W. Fisher, Past Master
Military Service................. N o. 570 .... Robert J. Stanton, Master
Alfred C. Honey, Sr. Warden
Fred L. Somers, Past Master
Cornelius J. Manning, Past Master
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Francis K. Sliattuck .......... No. 571.... Allen L. Fowle, Master
John Tilbury, Sr. Warden
Horace H. Acorn, Jr. Warden
Bruce Bartholomew, Past Master
G. S. Jennings, Past Master .
G. M. Stoltz, Past Master
D. R. McCurdy, Past Master
L. H. Castlio, Past Master
James Madison.................... No. 572 .... Paul F. Mowry, Master.................... 34.10
Hillcrest................................ No. 573.... Sherwood L. Stanley, Jr. Master
Gustav B. Blanckenburg, Sr.
Warden
J. W. Lawton, Past. Master
S. W. Hackett..., ................ No. 574.... Walter L. Gregory, Sr. Warden.... 42.68
Fort Crook........................... No. 575 .... Warren E. Dunwoody, Sr.
Warden ............................................ 28.30
Byron T. Hollenbeak, Jr. Warden
El Cajon......................:...... ~No. 576.... Dorwin L. Baker, Master............ 43.18
Sunnyside..............................No. 577.... Arthur R. Greaser, Sr. Warden.... 34.10
F. Wesley Davies, Past Master
Progressive~ ......................... N o. 578.... Clarence E. Altig, Master..,......... 34.10
' ·
Fred W. ·Godard,- Sr.· Warden
Warren G. Harding.......... No. 579 .... Frank H. Johns, Master...........:.... 5.40
·
Carl 0. Brusso, Sr. Warden
Santa Maria........................No. 580 ....John H. L. Vogt, Master ............ 45.08
F. W. Gladheart, Sr. Warden
Percy E. Johnson, Past Master
Security..............:.......- ...... ,.No. 58L..Emil J. Schmidt, Sr. Warden.... 22.80
'Riatto.. ~.- ..................- .........-No. 582 ....Edward P. Patterson, ·Master........ 37.50
Harry E. Benson, Sr. Warden
Wasco...................................No. 583 ....John L. Fidler, Sr. Warden........ 21.52
Harding................................ No. 584 .... Donald S. Williams, Master........ 34.10
·
Wallace F. Burnham, Sr. Warden
Chas. L. Hanson, Past Master
Arthur L. Jepson, Past Master
Manchester: .......................... No. 585 .... Asa 0. Cox, Master.~...................... 34.10
Anton J. Urban, Sr. Warden ....... .
Gar<len Grove......................N o. 586.... A. E. Nearing, Master........................ 35.80
Norman E. Bryan, Sr. Warden
0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

265

Valley Forge....................... No. 587 .... George L. Eads, Master .. .'............. 34.10
Salvatore Bonura, Sr. Warden
Chas. H. Hart, Past Master
El Sereno............................. No. 588.... Clarence B. Schwendeman, Sr.
Warden ............... ~............................. ... 34.10
Kauai... ......... _....................... No. 589 .... Roland E. Israel, Sr. Warden ........ 272.00
Compass.......................-....... No. 590 .... H. Blaine Weaver, Sr. Warden.... 36.20
EscaJon.............- ................... No. 591.. .. 0tto A. Gushe, Master.................... 6.00
Frank Sumner Thornton, Sr.
Warden
Tujunga................................ No. 592 .... Fred Terzo, Sr. Warden .............;...... 34.60
All States .............................. No. 593 .... Fred E. Selover, Master................ 34.10
Clarence H. Bonsky, Sr. Warden
Service. ....................·-····-·····No. 594 .... Benj. H. Linville, Master............ 34.10
Gerald D. Kint, Sr. Warden
Alexander Graham Bell.No. 595 .... Rocky A. Wills, Master.................... 34.10
Guardian ............................... No. 596 .... Ellis R. Adams, Master.................... 34.10
H. M. Christian, Sr. Warden
Truth ...........................·.......... No. 597 .... 0rmonde W. Flanagan, Sr.
Warden ............................................ 34.10
Pearl Harbor....................... No. 598 .... Alexander D . .Potts, Representative and Inspector
Carmelita .............................. No. 599 .... Chas. c;. Hamill, Jr., Master............ 34.90
E. A. Lockett, Past Master
Lynwood ............................... No. 600 .... Walter H. Fleming, Sr. Warden.... 34.50
Grizzly................................... No. 601.. .. A. N. Waite, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 23.00
Gilbert Palmer, Representative...... 23.00
H. A. Date, Past Master
Melrose................................. No. 602 .... Charles P. O'Kelly, Master............ 34.10
Ralph E. Busch, Sr. Warden
J. Lynn Goode, Past Master and
Inspector .......;................................... 34.10
Dimond ............................. :., ..No. 603 .... Henry A. McKenna Master
'
Benj. L. Wade, Sr. Warden
James J. Torrison, Jr. Warden
Jubilee........................ _.....•.. _No. 604 .... Fred H. Pope, Master........................ 35.80
Robert F. Keller, Sr. Warden
Glassell Park ....................... No. 605 .... Howard L. Jones, Master.................. 34.10
Sojourner .............................. No. 607.... R. R. Brown, Sr. Warden................ 35.20
Granada .............................. _No. 608 .... George W. Lord, Master................ 34.60
·
L. T. Smyser, Sr. Warden
Provident... ........................... No. 609 .... Cecil C. Skinner, Master..................
5.10
Frederick W. Whitney, Sr. Warden
0. E. Howe, Past Master
Leslie E. Wood, Past Master and
Grand Lecturer ..............................
5.10
Elmhurst ............................... No. 610 .... John H. Gilmour, Sr. Warden
Lyman E. Ogden, Jr. Warden
Canoga................- .................No. 611.. .. Herbert W. Allen, Representative 32.60
Temple City...................... ~. No. 612 .... George J. Emery, Master................ 34.60
J. D. Logsdon, Sr. Warden
Three Pillars .........;............ No. 613 .... William Z. Herman, Master............
5.10
Larchmont............................ No. 614.... Joseph J. Noland, Master .... :............. 34.10
Willard Allers, Sr. Warden
George P. Salm, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 34.10

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

40.10
34.10
40.76
34.10

HeQtet....................................No. 615 .... George S. Anderson, Master............
Seal Beach...........................No. 616.... William R. Trethewey, Master........
Big Bear...............................No. 617.... Paul H. Jones, Sr. Warden ..............
Southland..............................No. 618.... Claude H. McFadden, Sr. Warden
William L. Hovis, Past Master
and Inspector ................................ 34.10
Neptune................ ~.........,.•.~No. 619 ....Chas. R. Wilkinson, Master.............. 34.10
Point Loma.......................No. 620.... Leroy W. Lee, Master.................... 42.68
Ralph D. Lathrop, Past' Master
The Gardens........................ No. 621....Jack B. Nealon, Master.................... 34.10
Robert Tait, Sr, Warden
George V. Jameson, Past Master
Atwater.............,...................No. 622.... A. 'vVm. Christlieb, Master .............. 34.10
James C. Taylor, Sr. Warden
Menorah................,.............• No. 623 .... Samuel H. Silverman, Master........ 34.10
Joseph White, Sr. Warden
Joseph Sokolow, Jr. Warden
Aaron Elmore, Past Master
Fortitude...............................No. 624 .... James C. Williams, Master
Ernest L. Hunter, Sr. Warden
Elmer C. Baecker, Jr. Warden
Andies H . Van Eck, Past Master
Lionel B. Benas, Past Master
Frank Ziegler, Past Master
Tony Clark, Past Master
Frederick L. Shaw, Past Master
Olaf E. Anderson, Past Master
Angeles Mesa......................No. 625 ....John J. Humble, Master................. . 34.10
John E. Roberts, Sr. Warden
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Chula Vista.....,...................No. 626.... William A. Finley, Sr. Warden ...... 42.68
Lamanda Park........•...,..,... No. 627.... 0tto B. Hend, Master...................... 34.90
Edwin H. Wood, Sr. Warden
Beacon of the West.......... No. 628.... Clarence L. Roberts, Sr. Warden.... 34.10
Fairview.....,...........,............. No. 629 .... Horace Clay Burns, Master............ 34.10
Thomas H. Weber, Sr. Warden
Wm. C. Hudnall, Past Master
Ingleside............................... No. 630.... Paul J. Knibb, Jr. Warden
Lloyd E. Wilson, .Past Master and
Asst. Grand Lecturer
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Benevolence......................... No. 631.... Carl E. Drake, Master...................... 34.10
Albert H. Ross, Sr. Warden
Normal Heights..................No. 632....Chas. R. Roton, Master.................... 42.68
Roy Weston Eaton, Sr. Warden
Poinsettia............................. No. 633....John V. Van Meter, Master.......... 29.50
Alf. C. Ax, Sr. Warden
John M. DeVries, Jr. Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Master
Vidorville....- ...................... No. 634.... Donald R. Morgan, Master............ 38.76
Riverside.............................. No. 635 .... F. Harold Butterfield, Master........ 37.60
Gordon F. Black, Sr. Warden
John Marshall.................... No. 636.... Benjamin F. Jurdan, Master.......... 34.10
Palisades...............................No. 637....John C. Boggs, Sr. Warden .............. 34.10
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master............ 34.10

267

Indian Rock........................ No. 638....James R. Esty, Master
Donald I. Cone, Sr. Warden
Evans R. Foster, Jr. Warden
Frederick T. Herrick, Past Master
.
.
William Watts, Past Master
Co~poSdte............................. No. 639.... B. Friedlander, Sr. Warden............ 34.10
Ventas.................................. No. 640.... Chas. R. O'Donnell, Master
William R. McWood, Sr. Warden
Ralph M. Tvede, Jr. Warden
Leonard S. Leavy, Past Master
.Washington I. Kohnke, Past
Master and Inspector ·
James A. Foshay................ No. 641.. .. Ralph L. Moore, Master.................. 34.10
Jos. L. Young, Sr. Warden
La Cumbre........................... No. 642.... H. C. Taylor, Master........................ 26.80
G. H. Clapp, Jr. Warden
tlta. Loma........................... No. 643.... George H. _Kilpatrick, Master........ 34.10
Aom1ta....,......:·········c·············No. 644....J. Earl Barringer, Sr. Warden.......... 34.10
. F. E. lrwm.................... No. 645 .... Edwin J. Genter, Mas ter ................. . 34.1 0
Archie A. Fellers, Sr. Warden
Metropolitan........................ N o. 646.... Kenneth H. Downs, Master ..............
34.10

[~m~.s 'f:~n~y~c~~:;~;--~~~~--~-~-~-~~~

Hawthorne........................... No. 64 7....
34.10
D
Lee S. Langford, Sr. Warden
amascus............................. No. 648.... Homer W. Emmerton Master
37.60
Florence................................ No. 649 .... George H . Hennes, Master ......:::::: 34.10
Fred W. Kennett, Past Master
L a Brea................................ No. 650.... W. Lloyd Laumann, Master ........... .
34.10
J . D. Hurd, Sr. Warden
W m. T. Wheeling, Past Master
and Inspector ,............................... 34.60
C. B. Goodridge, Past Master
Menlo Park......................... No. 651.... Clarence E . Sebring, Master ..........
2.22
T . Bryan Hunnell, Sr. Warden
Frank D. Hill, Jr. Warden
J. Ross Hardy, Past Master
G. J. Owen, _P ast Master
Crescenta Valley................ No. 652....Thomas H. Elson Master
33.70
Fontana.. :......... :....................No. 653 .... Benj. F. Killen, Master.... :::::::::::::::: 37.30
Ross W. Gesler, Sr. Warden
Reynold B. Doney, Jr. Warden
Jordan.........•......................... No. 654 .... Kenneth Hedrick, Master.............. 34.10
Leonard Gross, Sr. Warden
Albert P. Henry Past Master
Monte Vista........................No. 655 .... Robert M. White: Master.................. 34.10
E'd ward Wilson Hecker, Past
Master
Citrol..................................... No. 656....W illiam M. Conley Master
35.70
John D. Spreckels.............. No. 657 .... Howard C. Carroll,' Sr. Wa~-d~·~:::: 42.68
Livingston............................ No. 658.... Wilbur D. Crosby Sr Warden
7.20
La Habra.............................. No. 659.... Edward C. Klausdian: Sr. Ward~~ 35.50
Baldwin Park..................... No. 660.... Harvey E . Williams, Sr. Warden 34.68
Malta.....................................No. 661.... Fred L. Unger; Master.................... 34.10
John North, Past Master
Henry Knox ........................ No. 662.... Paul R. Nichols Master
34.10
Oja~ ....................................... No. 663....Arthur J. Koenig stein, M~~t~;:~::::: 30.80
Oas1s...................................... No. 664.... Ralph French, Jr. Warden............ 51.72
1

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Kaweah .................................No. 665 ....Roy L. Davis, Master........................ 18.60
Robert W. Moore, Sr. Warden
Reseda ...........:.......................No. 666.... Lee Willis Miller, Master............ 34.10
.
·
Henry B. Edwards, Jr. Warden
Meridian..........- ...................No. 667.... Roscoe D. Logan, Master.................. 33.70
Samuel A. MacDonald, Past
Master
John R. Moore, Past Master.......... 33.70
San Gorgonio...................... No. 668....Wilmer 0. Powell, Master............ 39.40
.
DeRoy H. Gates, Past Master
and Inspector ................................ 39.40
John P. Jarman.................. No. 669.... Creed M. Triplett, Master.............. 2.50
John A. Daly, Sr. Warden
Clair B. Sheets, Jr. Warden
Herbert Pritchard, Past Master
C. E. Sheffer, Past Master
Wm. T. Penberthy, Past Master
GreenleaL........................... No. 670.... Hubert H. Jenkins, Master............ 35.00
.
Guy C. Shaw, Sr. Warden
Edwin B. Skinner, Past Master
San Clemente..:................... No. 671.... Earl H. Moore, Master.................... 40.10
Laguna Beach......................No. 672....W . B. Sorrells, Past Master and
Representative ................................ 36.10
Far West..............................No. 673....Julius L . Girod, Master
Chris J. Christensen, Sr. Warden
Earl W . Rudeen, Jr. Warden
Nante W. Anderson, Past Master
Carroll S. Locke, Past Master
Howard 0. Taylor, Past Master
Albert S. Sandell; Past Master
Los Cerritos....................... No. 674 ....Maurice J. Abramson, Master........ 34.10
Herbert Goldman, Past Master
Modesto............................•... No. 675.... Chas. Lewis Van De Mark, Sr.
·
Warden ................................................ 5.80
Willow Glenn...................... No. 676....John R. Gordon, Master................ 2.50
Sidney E. Akers, Sr. Warden
Louis A. Bergna, Past Master
Liberal Arts......................... No. 677.... William A. Sherwin, Master............ 34.10
G. Ellsworth Meyer, Past Master
Ira F. Thompson, Past Master
Altadcna............................... No. 678.... Allan F. · Clark, Master.................... 34.90
Grant W . Pengilly, Sr. Warden
Canby's Cross......................No. 679.... E. W. Mitchell, Representative.... 33.70
Carmel.................................. No. 680....Chas. A. Watson, Master................ 7.60
James R. Zuck, Sr. Warden
Veteran Brethren Visiting............. M. D. Nixon ........................................ 9.46
John L. Sullivan ...........:.................... 17.50
Bernard Borach .................................. 5.20
Joel 0. Wilder .................................. 5.10
Rov H . PARKI NSON,
RALPH E. SMIT H ,
M ARTIN L. GRI FFIT H,
CHARLES E. SONES ,
Dou GLAS A. MAY,
WALTER F. F LIERL,
Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

269

ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The annual election of officers was now held, the result being
as follows :
The R.'. W.'. Rollie W. Miller of Sunset Lodge No. 352 was
elected Grand Master.
The R.'. W:. James T. Fraser of Humboldt Lodge No. 79
was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.". W .'. Leon 0.- Whitsell of Orange Grove Lodge No.
293 was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W.'. William H. Waste of Durant Lodge No. 268 was
elected Junior Grand Warden.
The V.'. W:. William P. Filmer of King Solomon's Lodge
No. 260 was reelected Grand Treasurer.
rhe V.". W.". John Whicher of King David's Lodge No. 209
was reelected Grand Secretary.
The V.'. W.'. Leslie E. Wood of Provident Lodge No. 609
was reelected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the names of the
appointive officers, as follows:
Grand Chaplain, W. Bertrand Stevens of James A. Garfield
Lodge No. 566.
Grand Orator, William B. Ogden of Hollywood Lodge No.
355,
Assistant Grand Secretary, Frank G. Hobbs of Alexan.dria
Lodge No. 531.
Grand Marshal, Ira D. Wheeler of Palisades Lodge No. 637.
Grand Standard Bearer, George Malcombe Coney of Kauai
Lodge No. 589.
Grand Sword Bearer, Newton D. High of South Park Lodge
No. 563.
.
Grand Bible Bearer, Malachi D. Nixon of Henry Clay Lodge
No. 95.
Senior Grand Deacon, Ernest G. Bashor of Sunset Lodge
No. 352.
Junior Grand Deacon, Ralph A. Hix of Melrose Lodge No.
602.
Senior Grand Steward, Aaron George Marcus of Corona
Lodge No. 324.
Junior Grand Steward, Richard H. Chamberlain, Jr., of
Piedmont Lodge No. 521.

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Pursuivant, Jack California Butler of Union Lodge
No. 58.
Grand Organist, Chas. E. Anderson of Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Frank G. Watson of Presidio Lodge No. 354.
He also announced the appointment of Samuel E. '.Burke to
be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes
of California, vice self, term expired.
·
The M.". w:. Dana R. Weller was appointed Master of Ceremonies and the officers-elect and appointive, excepting the Grand
Chaplain, the Grand Standard Bearer and the Grand Stew~rds
were installed by the retiring Grand Master in due and ancient
form.
The newly installed Grand Master then invested his prede·
cessor with a lapel pin in which was set a beautiful diamond, and
also presented to him the apron of a Past Grand Master! ~he
Chas. Albert Adams insignia was transferred from the retmng
to the incumbent Grand Master; the oth~r chair officers ex~
changed their lapel pins.
Past Grand Master Burke, in behalf of Sunset Lodge No. 352,
presented the ~rand Master with a gavel; Sidney K . ~ehman, _in
behalf of the Los Angeles Inspectors, ptesented to him a bnef
case.
Past Grand Master Gaylord, in his usual felicitous manner,
presented to Past Grand Master Warren, in behalf of Grand
Lodge, a beautiful silver service.
At 2 :20 o'clock, all business being completed, Grand Lodge
was closed in Ample Form.
ROLLIE M. MILLER,
Grand Master.
JOHN WB:lCHER,
Grand Secretary.

GRAND LOPGE OF CALlfORNIA

STANDING COMMITTEES
Jurisprudence-Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles;
John D. Murphey, Courthouse, Oakland; Benjamin F. Bledsoe, 639 Roosevelt
Building, Ips Angeles; Francis V. Keesling, de Young Buil!fing, San Francisco;
George L. Jones, Nevada City; Robert R Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco; John Stewart Ross, 117 West Ninth Street, Los Angeles.
Policy and Gf!neral Purposes-William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring
Street, Los Angeles; William A. Sherman, Lombard and Battery Streets, San
Francisco; AJJ:>ert E, Boyqtq.n, 155 Montgomery Street, San Francisco; Will H.
Fischer, Edison Building, ,Los Angeles; Frank W. Mixter, Exeter; Bq1dford
Webster, 373 Mqraga Avenu.e, Oakland; Randolph V. Whiting, MonadnocJc
Building, San Francisco.
·
Grievances..,-Fra,nk B. Belch~r, 510 South Spring Street, Los Angeles j Olin
L. Berry, Bank of AtJlerica Building, San Frapcisco; William Penn Humphreys,
Balboa Building, San Francisco; Arthur W. Brouillet, liumboldt Bank Building,
Sim Francisco; Dwight W . Stephenson, 805 Washington Building, Los Angeles.
Finance-Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield; Frank C. Ruppel, 411 Masonic
Temple, San Francisco; Claude H. Morrison, First National Bank, San Diego;
Walter L. Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles; Earl Warren, Courthouse, Oakland.
Credentials-Louis Sutter, Anglo-California National Bank, San Francisco;
Ralph E. Smith, 587 Cypress Avenue, Los Angeles; John W. Davey, 2090 Pacific Avenue, San Francisco; Stanley Chapman, Fullerton; Norman W. Giesy,
2619 Ivanhoe Drive, Los Angeles.
C}larters-Lee T. Mullen, Security Title Jnsurance Building, Los Angeles;
Henry Eissler, Bakersfield; Roderick B. c;::assidy, State Building, S~n Francisco; Roy Bryan, 829 Longwood Avenue, Los Angeles; Charles E. Sones,
El Centro.
By-Laws-;-Oakley K. Morton, Courthouse, Riverside; Julius Gabriel, 584
California Street, San Francisco; Ira F. Thompson, State Building, San Francisco; Warren D. Gill, 396 Alhambra Road, San Gabriel; Chas. Listenwalter,
375 South Rimpau Boulevard, Los Angeles.
Pay of Members-John H. McGehee, State Capitol, Sacramento; George
K. Manheim, 440 California Street, San Francisco; Henry G. Mathewson, State
Building, San Francisco; Benj. G. Wright, 740 South Olive Street, Los Angeles;
F. Wesley Davies, 9145 Orchard Avenue, Los Angeles.
Accounts-( All San Fr~ncisco)-Paul Nathan, 311 California Street; Max
J. Mertens, 571 Eighteenth Avenue; Andrew Burke, Masonic Temple; Otto G.
Freyermuth, 209 Post Street; Paul R. Bjick, 273 Edinburgh Street.
Returns-R00ert E. Allan, 1500 Sutter Street, San Francisco; Albert F.
Ross, Redding; Wm. W. McKee, 326 Chapla Street, Santa Barbara; Irving
Magnes, Eastland Building, Oakland; Albert C. Wollenberg, 2748 Steiner
Street, San Francisco.
Necrology-Warren E. Libby, !015 Spring Street, Arcade Building, Los
Angeles; Roy Parkinson, Flood Building, San Francisco; Walter D. Adriance,
San Luis Obispo.
Correspondence-Jess.e M. Whited, Phelan Building, San Francisco.
Grand Lodge Week Activities-Lloyd Wilson, 220 Golden Gate Avenue,
San Francisco; and all San Francisco Inspectors.
Library-T. M. Wright, 19 North Second Street, San Jose; Lee Crawford,
1800 Broadway, San Francisco; John A. Klarquist, 618 South Western Avenue,
Los Angeles; Philip Creedon, 732 York Avenue, Vallejo; Orrin S. Henderson,
Box 242, Palo Alto.
Clandestine Masonry-William A. Schreider, Mutual Life Building, Los
Angeles; John Alpers, 547 Alvarado Street, San Francisco; Orla A. Pratt,

272

. PROC:EEDINGS OF THE

Calexico ; Fr~ P. Roulard, Holland Buiiding, Fresno ; John Robinson, 1714
L Street, Sacramento.
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
Financing Building Projects-William p, Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San
Francisco; Herbert G. Goldman, 746 Geary Street, San Francisco; Leonard S.
Leavy, City Hall, San Francisco.
_ ·
Ritual-Grand Lecturer and the four Assistant Grand Lecturers.
Masonic History-Leon 0. Whitsell, State Building, Sari Francisco ; Mark
A. Sawrie, 1061 Mariposa Street, Berkeley. (Committee incomplete.)
· Mas011ic Ed>ucation--A. Heber Winder, Chairman, Riverside; N . Perry
Moerdyke,"311 South Spring Street, Los Angeles; Walter B. Goodfellow, Guar·
anty Building, Hollywood.
Public Schools .Week-Chas. Albert Adams, 1017 Humboldt Bank Building,
San Francisco; Walter L~ Bachrodt, City Superintendent of Schools, San Jose;
Arthur H. Chamberlain, Olympic Hotel, San Francisco; Roy W. Cloud, 155
Sansome Street, San Francisco; Will Crockett, 1545 Santa Oara A venue, Alameda; Elias E. Ellison, i863 Eighteenth A venue, San Francisco ; C. Burnham
Heryford, 1101 West Perkins Street, Ukiah ; 0. S. Hubbard, City Superintendent of Schools, Fresno ; Einar W. Jacobsen, Superintendent of Schools,
Oakland; George C. Jensen, Assistant City Superintendent of Schools, Sacramento; Wesley W. Kergan, Russ Building, San Francisco; Joseph P. Nourse, City
Superintendent of Schools, San Francisco; Vaughan MacCaughey, 155 Sansome
Street, San Francisco; William G. Paden, City Superintendent of Schools, Alameda ; Virgil E. Dickson, City Superintendent of Schools, Bc;rkeley; Robert A.
Odell, 524 Van Nuys Building, Los Angeles; John B. Beman, Pacific Southwest
Bank Building, Los Angeles; Melvin E. Bowman, Principal, Franklin School,
Santa Barbara; L. E. Chenoweth, City Superintendent 'o f Schools, Bakersfield ;
A. R. Oifton, County· Superintendent of Schools, Los Angeles ; Will C. Crawford, City Superintendent of Schools, San Diego ; Percy R. Davis, City Superintendent of Schools, Santa Monica; Dr. Walter V. Goodfellow, Guaranty
Building, Hollywood; F. A. Henderson, City Superintendent of Schools, Santa
Ana; J. L. House, Principal Central High School, El Centro; Frederick F.
Martin, City Superintendent of Schools, Redondo Beach ; Charles E. Teach,
City Superintendent of Schools, San Luis Obispo; James T. Montano, 1211
Detwiler Building, Los Angeles; E. B. Skinner, · 107 Berkeley Way, Whittier.

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
Endowment Board-Frank M. Smith, Hall of Justice, Los Angeles; William
Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles ; Edmund A. Lockett,
552 South Raymond Street, Pasadena ; Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San
Francisco; Thomas Flint, Hollister ; Joe L. Shell, Southern Title Building, San
Diego; Reynold E. Bl.ight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles; Harry F. White,
Fr~sno ; John F. Pullep., State Library Building, Sacramento; . H oward B.
Kirtland, Security First National Building, San Luis Obispo ; Louis C•. Drapeau,
343 Sansome Street, Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield; Eugene . S. Elkus, 485 California Street, San Francisco; Ernest G. Bashor, 600 Edwards-Wildey Building,
Los Angeles; Halcott C. Thomas, 457 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Trustees Masonic Homes-Chas. M. Wollenberg, President, Laguna Honda
Home, San Francisco; James B. Gist, Vice-President, Security First National
Bank, Sixth and Spring Streets, Los Angeles ; Samuel E. Burke, 649 South
Olive Street, Los Angeles; Chas. Albert Adams, Humboldt Bank Building, San
:francisco ; Jarµes T. Fraser, Eureka; Leon 0 . Whitsell, State Building·, San
Francisco ; Wm. H. Waste, State Building, San Francisco.
Board of Control-Eugene S. Elkus, 485 California Street, San Francisco;
Robert F. Callender, 1128 West Kensington Road, Los Angeles; James R.
Erskine, · Box 974, Fresno; Frank Tade, Fa_rmers and Mechanics Building,
Sacramento, Frank M. Wise, 330 Colorado Avenue, Santa Monica.

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

273

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES
With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5936
Charter

Lodge

No.

1 California _ ,-- - - - 1
2 Western Star -------------- 2
3 Tehama -----3
4 Benicia -------- - ------· _ _ 5
5 Tuolumne ------------8
6 Corinthian - - -- -···· 9
7 San Jose ------ - - ----- 10
8 Yount __..:,___________ 12
9 Nevada - ----- ---- - - - · - 13
10 Temple ----- -·------------- 14
11 Eureka -·--- - ------------ 16
12 La Parfaite Union _ _ _ 17
13 Mountain Shade . _______ 18
14 San Joaquin ------------ - 19
15 Washington ---------- 20
16 Hawaiian ··-- ·-- ·-- -21
17 Occidental - - ··------- - - -- 22
18 Madison -··-- - ------23
19 Mariposa - - - - - - - 24
20 Georgetown - --- - - - 25
21 El Dorado ------------ - 26
22 Trinity ------------------- 27
23 Golden Gate -,------ 30
24 Gold Hill ______________ _ 32
25 Ophir ····- ------33
26 San Diego -------- -- 3 5
27 Howard -------------- 37
28 Santa Cruz--"----- - - 38
29 Sacramento --------- ·- - 40
30 Martinez ···------- - - - - 41
31 Los Angeles ---------- 42
32 Hiram .......____ ____ _ 43
33 Mount Moriah --------44
34 Crescent -~---------- 45
35 Texas - ----------------- 46
36 Forbestown ------------50
37 Illinoistown ·-·-- -------- - 51
38 Suisun -·····--·55
39 Volcano -·----56
40 Santa Rosa ------ - - - 57
41 Union ·--·- - ------- --- - - - 58
42 Gravel Range ---59
43 Plumas ·-·--------- -- - 60
44 Live Oak ·-·-------- --- -- 61
64
45 Natoma __
46 Amador - - - -- - -- 65
47 Forest - -------- -- 66
48 Morning Star -------- - 68
49 Enterprise ------70
50 Bear Mountain _ _ __ 76
51 Calaveras ---78
52 Humboldt - - -- - 79
53 lone -- -------- -- 80
54 Yolo - - - ----- - - 81
55 Vesper --------- - - -- 84
56 Naval ··-··-- ------ - - - 87
57 Rose's Bar ----------- 89
58 North Star - - - - - - - - 91

Issued

Fees

San Francisco ---- 1850
Shasta ----- ---- 1850
Sacramento - - --- 1850
Benicia ---------·- -·- 1850
Sonora ------·-····-· 1850
Marysville ---·--'--· 1850
San Jose -------- 1850
Napa ··---------- 1851
Nevada City ------··· 1851
Sonoma ------------- 1851
Auburn ----------'--· 1851
San Francisco -----··--· 1852
Downieville -··- ··-- 1852
Stockton - - - - - 1852
Sacramento ------·- 1852
Honolulu, H. T. __ 1852
San Francisco -----'-'-- 185 2
Grass Valley -------· 1853
M ariposa -···-··-··-- 1853
Georgetown ··------··· 1853
Placerville ------'- 1853
W eaverville ___:.._ 1853
San Francisco ----- -· 1853
Lincoln -------------- 1853
M urphy's ---·--'·- 1853
San D iego - ---·-·····- 1853
Yreka ---------....:.:.... 1854
Santa Cruz ----"-- 1854
Sacramento -----·'-·· 1854
Martinez ________;___ 1854
Los Angeles ________;__ 1854
El Dorado ·-----··--- 1854
San Francisco --··-- 1854
Crescent City ----- 1854
San Juan ·------··-·-- 1854
Forbestown ----··-··· 1854
Colfax -------------- 1854
Suisun --~-----···---· 1855
Volcano ----·-··--- 1855
Santa Rosa ----- 1855
Sacramento ------ 1855
Camptonville - ---- 1855
Quincy -------·----- 1855
Oalcland ---·--·- ---- 1855
Folsom ---··--------- 1855
Jackson ---·-·-·--- 1855
Alleghany ----- - - - 1855
Stoclcton ------ - -- 1855
Yuba City-----·--· 1855
Angel's Camp ···--- 1855
San A ndreas ----- - -- 1855
Eureka ---····-------- 1855
Ione - - - -------- 1856
1856
Yolo - ----------Red Bluff -----···-- 1856
Vallejo --------··-··-· 1856
Smartsville -----·-··---· 1856
Fort Jones -----··--······ 1856

100
50
75
50
75
50
50
60
50
40
50
100
30
80
75
80
100
53
50
30
50
50
100
50
50
80
50
80
75
50
50
75
100
50
30
30
50
50
30
75
75

Location

Ami.
)'ees

20.00
6.00
10.00

MemDues

bers

12

632

9 109
9
12
9

443
159
210
2.00
9 293
9 451
12 253
9 139
2.00 12 114
9 197
15.00 12 151
9
35
12 581
10.00 9 513
10.00 12 342
25.00 12 808
10 169
9 152
5.00
9
53
9 175
5.00
9
86
5.00
10.00 12 714
1.00 9
99
38
4.00 9
8.00 12 576
1.00 9 205
1.00 12 325
10.00 12 541
12 205
10.00
9 714
9
42
20.00
10.00 12 443
6.00
9 132
1.00
9 47
9 58
9 72
12 142
5.00
9
30
5.00 9 378
10.00
9 526
55
9 34
50
2.50 9
98
50 10.00 12 977
50
5.00 9 11 8
50
9
73
50
9
46
12 422
80
50
5.00 12 228
50 3,00
9
85
50
5.00 9
85
75
18 361
50
9
69
30
9
59
50
9 172
50 10.00
9 596
5.00
50
9
37
35
5.00 9 . 46

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71

*

73
74
75
76

77
78
79
80
81
82
83

~~

86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
l04
105
106
l07
108
109
110
111
ll2
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

Ami.
Fees

Dues

Members

St. Helena ------------------ 93 St. Helena ------------ 1856
50
1.00 12 87
Henry Clay --·------- 95 Sutter Creek ------ 1856
60
12
53
Hornitos ·------·-----·----- 98 Hornitos ----------------- 1856
65 10.00 10 84
Yosemite - - - - - - - 99 Merced - - - - - - 1856
50
15 231
Clay --- - - -----101 Dutch Flat ------------ 1856
50
9
~~
Oroville
103 Oroville --------- 1856
50
5.00 12
Lexington ---...,---------104 El Monte -------------- 1856
55
1.00
9 172
Arcata - - - - - - -106 Arcata ------------------ 1857
55
3.00
9 190
Pajaro -----:------:____110 Watsonville -------- 1857
50 10.00 15 233
Chico _________ lll Chico -------------------- 1857
50 10.00 12 326
Summit ____.:_____
. _112 Knight's Ferry ------- 1857
50
5.00
9
39
Eden ____
113 San Leandro --------- 1857
80
5.00 12 207
Concord ..:__ _ _ _ _ 117 Sacramento ---------- 1857
75 10.00
9 340
Clinton-------------------119 Consolidated with Western Star No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936
Fidelity -------------120 San Francisco ------ 1858 100
5.00 15 590
Alamo ------------122 Walnut Creek ------- 1858
80
5.00 12 136
Sotoyome - - - - -123 Healdsburg - - - - 1858
75
5.00 12 165
Table Mountain ---------124 Cherokee --------------- 1858
80
1.00
9 88
La Fayette - - - - - -126 Sebastopol ------- 1858
50
9 188
Hermann -----------127 San Francisco ----·----· 1858 100 20.00 12 221
Visalia - - - - - ----128 Visalia --- ----------- 1859
50
8.00 12 295
Nicolaus ------- ------129 Wheatland ------------- 1859
50
5.00
9 83
Woodbridge ·---------13 1 Woodbridge ------ ---- 1859
50
5.00
9 109
Sincerity -----------J32 Greenville ---------- 1859
50
5.00
9 91
Vacaville - - - - - - J H Vacaville --------------- 1859
75
9 154
Valley ,-----_:_______135 Linden ·-------------- 1860
50 12.00
9 68
Pacific - - - - - - - . _136 San Francisco --------- 1860 100 20.00 12 689
Crockett ______· _ _ _ 139 San Francisco - -- 1860 100 25.00 12 661
Curtis ··-----------·- -140 Cloverdale -------------- 1860
75
9 68
141 Knights Landing.__ 1860
30
5.00
9 70
Grafton
Franklin -----------143 Courtland ----- --------- 1861
75
1.00 18
91
Oriental
144 San Francisco ------ 1861 100 25.00 12 447
Vitruvius -----------145 Bloomfield
1861
30
1.00
9
94
Abell - - - - - - - 1 4 6 Ukiah -------------- 1861
50
8.00 12 155
Eel River ----------------147 Fortuna ------------------- 1861
50
9 169
Lassen -----------149 Susanville -------- ------ 1862
60 12.00
9 167
Molino ---------150 Tehama ------------ 1862
50
1.00 12
19
Woodland -----------156 Woodland
1863
50
9 245
Keystone ----------161 Milton ------------ 1863
30 10.00 12 29
Harmony ------ - ----164 Sierra City ------------ 1864
30
5.00
9
16
Excelsior - · - - -166 San Francisco ----- 1864
50 10.00
~~~
Alameda ____ _: ___________167 ... Centerville ----------- 1864
50
5.00
Redwood City - - - -168 Redwood ~ity - - - 1864
50
1.00 ~~ ~~:
Mission --------------169 San Francisco --------- 1864 100
5.00
Elk Gr~ve - - - - - - 1 73 Elk Grove --------- 1865
50 10.00
~ l~~
Drytown ----------174 Pl~outh ----------·--- 18~5
30
5.00
Antioch
-175 Antioch ------------ 18 5
50
5.00 12 141
55
3.00
~ 1:~
Phoenix -----=---------178 San Ber.nardino ________ 1866
Mendocino ------179 Mendocino ------------ 1866
50
5.00
Petaluma -----------------180 Pe~luma --------------- 1866
80
5.00
9 281
107
Russian River ----------181 Windsor ---------------- 1866
50
1.00 1
69
Arbuckle -------------182 Arbuckle ------------ 1867
50
1.00 ~
Clear Lake --------- -------183 Lower Lake ______________ 1867
50 10.00
36
Sierra Valley ------184 Sie_rraville -------- 1867
50
~
36
Claiborne --------·-·--------185 Point A~ena -·--·------ 1867
50
5.00
54
43
Evening Stl!r --------186 E~a Mills ---·----- 1~7
50
159 160
Keith ---------------187 Gilroy --------------------- 18 8
50
1.00 12 803
Oakland ---,-----188 O~kl~nd ----------- 1868
50 25.00
78
Northern Light.-----------190 Millville --·----------- 1868
35
3.00 19 442
80
2
Marin --------191 San Rafael ---------- 1868
Santa B-;rbara ------192 Santa Barbara ---------- 1868
75
5.00 l~ 220
145
Ferndale -------------193 Ferndale ---------------- 1869
50

2

g

1

275

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

Charter

Location
I ssued
121 Mountain View _____________ 194 Mountain View ________ 1869
122 Buckeye _________________ 195
Winters -------------- 1869
123 · San Simeon.__________________ 196 Cambria
------------------ 1869
124 Wilmington ________198 Wilmington -------- 1869
125 Hartley ___________199 Lakeport -------------- 1869
126 Truckee - - - - - - 2 0 0 Truckee -------- 1869
127 Silveyville ----------201 Dixon -----·-------------- 1869
128 Pentalpha _ _
02 Los Angeles _____ 1869
129 Confidence --------------------- 203 Castroville -------------- 1869
130 Salinas - -------- - - --204 Salinas ------------ 1869
131 Olivet ----------------205 Corning ----------------- 1870
132 Stanislaus - - -----------206 Modesto --------------- 1870
133 Anaheim ·---------207 Anaheim ---------------- 1870
134 Rio Vista - - - ------208 Rio Vista ---------~ 1870
135 King David's ____________ 209 San Luis Obispo...... 1870
136 Friendship - -----------210 San Jose ------------------ 1871
137 San Benito ----- -----211 Hollister ----------- 1871
138 So. San Francisco.._______ 212 San Francisco --------- 1871
139 San Buenaventura - --214 Ventura --------- 1871
140 Oak Grove _________ _:__215 Alameda ------------------ 1871
141 Doric - - - - - - - 2 1 6 San Francisco ------ 1871
142 Monterey ------17 Monterey -------------- 1871
143 Mosaic --------------- 218 Livermore ------- 1872
144 Speranza Italiana ________219 San Francisco ---------- 1872
145 Downey --------- 220 Downey --------------- 1872
146 Inyo ------------·----------- 221 Independence ---------- 1872
147 Roseville -------------·- 222
Roseville ---------------- 1912
148 Bakersfield ---------- 224 Bakersfield ----------- 1873
149 Brooklyn----- ..225 East Oakland __________ 1873
150 San Mateo
226 San Mateo ---------- 1873
151 Athens ------------------228
Davis --------------------- 1873
152 Solano _ _
29 Vallejo ----------·- 1873
153 North Butte --·----------230
Gridley -------------------- 1873
154 Covelo - - 31 Covelo - ------------ 1874
155 Janesville -----------232
Lassen -------------------- 1874
156 Calistoga
33 Calistoga -·------- 1874
157 Hope -------------------234
Beckwith ---------------- 1874
158 Surprise Valley____ __z35 Cedarville ---------- 1874
159 Hill's Ferry ---------236
160 Guadalupe ----------237 Newman -------------- 1874
Guadalupe ------------ 1874
161 Colusa -------------240
162 Santa Ana ---------------241 Colusa -----·------------ 1875
Santa Ana ·------------- 1876
163 Magnolia ---42 Santa Barbara ------ 1876
164 Eucalyprus --------~-----..243 Haywards ---------------- 1876
165 Alcatraz
244 West Oakland ---- 1877
166 Laurel --------.:··-----245
Willows ---------------- 1877
167 Pomona
,246 Pomona -------- 1877
168 Fresno ------------..247
Fresno --------------------- 1878
169 Alturas - - 48
170 Adin --·-···--------250 Alturas ----------- 1878
--------------------- 1878
171 Landmark -----------253 Adin
Esparto -------------- 1879
172 Reading --------------254
Redding ------------------ 1879
173 Welcome --------------255 Lemoore ------------- 1879
174 Lodi ----------- - - - 256
175 Penrhyn ------------------ 258 Lodi ----------------·------- 1879
Penrhyn -----------------· 1880
176 Evergreen -------------- 259 Riverside -------------- 1880
177 King Solomon's -----------260 San Francisco ···------- 1880
178 Tuscan ---------261
Williams ------------- 1880
179 Lompoc ------------·----- 262 Lompoc ------------------ 1881
180 Hesperian - - - - - 2 6 4 Santa Maria ____ 1882
181 Orland --------------265
Orland ------------------ 1882
182 North East
266 Fort Bidwell ------- 1882

Fees

Ami.
Fees

Dues

Members

50
9 191
'O
5.00 12 102
30
9
97
80
12 288
30
9 170
60
5.00
9 108
60
5.00
9 134
50 20.00 12 611
40
9
28
75
9 268
50
12 108
50
9 331
50
9 275
50
1.00
9
91
80
1.00 12 299
50
9 528
30
1.00 12 137
75
12 250
50
16 219
75
1.00 12 574
100 10.00 12 523
75 ........
9 138
50
12 122
105 35.00 12 382
30
9 183
50
5.00 12
67
50
2.50 12 267
100
12 428
80
12 569
50
18 139
30 4.50
9 108
50 10.00
9 417
50
12 104
40
9
47
50
1.00
9
71
35
5.00
9
72
50 10.00 9
65
30
1. 00
9
73
80
9
93
50 10.00
9
58
50
12 155
75
1.00 12 471
75
3.00 15 222
50
5.00 12 204
50 10.00
9 510 .
50
5.00 18 158
50 3.00 12 308
80 3.00
9 539
40
1.00
9 141
70
15
54
35
1.00
9
91
50 8.00 12 184
50
9 103
50
9 279
30
3.00
9 109
50
12 505
80 15.00 12 716
50
12
84
50
1.00
9 118
50
1.00 12 228
50
2.00
9 113
30
5.00
9
52

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

Charter
Issued Fees
Location
Lodge
No.
(jJ
30
Galt ----- - - - - 1883
183 Galt
_
_
_
_
1883
80
68 Berkeley
184 Durant - --- 50
69 Tulare ---------- 1883
185 Olive Branch __
30
186 Snow Mountain _____...--271 Stony Ford --------- 1884
Pasadena
______
__z72
50
Pasadena ------------ 1884
187
80
73 Compton ---------- 1884
188 Anchor
. -35
74 Arroyo Grande .--~-- 1884
189 Arroyo _ _
50
190 Oakdale _ _ _____:i.75 Oakdale - - - -- 1884
277 Selma - --------- 1885 50
191 Selma
Los
Angeles
__________
_
1885
50
192 Southern California ..----278
50
79 Hanford -------------- 1885
193 Hanford
50
80 Madera ------------ 1885
194 Madera
30
195 Mount Shasta _ _----281 Anderson ____ 1886
30
282 Middletown ----- 1887
196 Callayomi _ ·
50
197 South West___ _ ___..283 National City--- ------ 1887
30
198 San Miguel ________-285 San MigueL_________ 1887
50
199 Paso Robles ....-------------286 Paso Robles _____________ 1887
50
200 Winnedumah _____ _ 287 _ Bishop ·-------------- 1887
50
201 Maxwell ___________288 Maxwell - - - - - - 1888
30
89 Elsinore --------- 1888
202 Elsinore
50
203 East Gate _ _ ____290 Los Angeles ----------- 1888
50
291 Santa Paula ...---------- 1888
204 Santa Paula
50
205 Los Gatos___________-292 Los Gatos ----------- 1888
75
206 Orange Grove_____________ _i93 Orange -------- 1889
50
207 Traver _ __________:i.94 Kingsburg ----- 1889
30
208 Mt. Jackson _____ --~95 Guerneville ------------ 1889
80
209 Silver Gate _ . -----296 San Diego--- -------- 1889
50
210 Dunsmuir
-------297
Dunsmuir ----------- 1889
______
__z99
Santa Clara _________ 1890
50
211 Liberty
75
00 Redlands _____ _:_ 1890
212 Redlands - - -50
213 Ontario _ _ _ _ _ _JOI Ontario ~------ 1890
40
302 Kings' City -------- - 1890
214 San ta Lucia ...
50
03 Porterville -------- 1890
215 Porterville
50
216 Reedley - --.------304 Reedley ------------- 1891
50
217 Azusa -_______
--------305
Azusa
-------------~
1891
__J06
50
Colton ---- - - - 1891
218 Ashlar
80
219 Santa Monica - - - - - 307 Santa Monica -------- 1891
50
__J08 Monrovia --------- 1891
220 Monrovia
50
221 Delano
09 Delano --------------- 1892
50
222 Sisson ________ _ J 10 Mount Shasta ------- 1892
75
12 Los Banos ------ 1892
223 Los Banos _ ·
75
13 Tehachapi ---------- 1892
224 Tehachapi _ ·
__
·
Temescal
50
14 Corona ------------ 1893
225
30
---315 Norwalk ----------- 1893
226 Norwalk
50
16 Sanger - --------- 1893
227 Sanger ·
30
228 Fallbrook _ _ _----317 Fallbrook ------- - 1893
_
_
__
___318
50
Biggs ---------- - - 1893
229 Emmanuel
Los
Angeles
_____
!..
1894
50
319
230 Hollenbeck
50
..J20 Los Angeles --------- 1894
231 South Gate
50
21 Pleasanton --------- 1894
232 Alisal -~
50
233 Alhambra _ _---322 Alhambra ---------- 1894
50
234 Whittier ______ __----323 Whittier ---····--- 1895
70
24 Pasadena - - - - 1895
235 Corona
50
25 Escondido -------- 1895
236 Consuelo - ·· ·
75
26 Needles ---------- - 1896
237 Needles ___-_
80
238 Long Beach _ _ _ _..J27 Long Beach _____ 1896
60
239 Redondo _ _ _ ___---328 Redondo ------·--·--- 1897
50
240 Vallee de France___________J29 Los Angeles ________ 1897
50
30 Hilo, H. T. _______ 1897
241 Kilauea _ _
35
31 Pacific Grove __________ 1897
242 Pacific Grove
80
32 San Pedro -----·---- 1897
243 San Pedro - - 53
33 Bridgeport --------- 1897
244 Alta

Mem·
Fees Dues bers
62
9
9 616
10.00
18. 192
31
9
1.00
12 536
12 251
6.00 12 84
9 117
1.00
9 158
12.00
15.00 12 189
12 144
3.00 12 163
59
12
62
9
5.00
52
9
1.00
57
10.00 12
9 105
3.00
20 109
57
9
12 104
9 781
10.00
15 267
12 197
1.00 12 196
10 106
12 133
12 571
12 198
9 230
9 354
9 207
24 103
9 282
9 144
12 161
9 168
12 268
12 242
9 161
62
9
2.00
12 125
1.00
9 164
2.00 12 127
9 117
9 148
57
9
5.00
73
9
5.00
9 1192
10.00
9 680
9 108
9 373
9 451
8.00 12 538
9 145
1.00 12 211
9 536
12 230
12.00 12 125
12 202
9 153
12 480
49
5.00
9

277

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

Ami.

245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306

Charter
Lodge
No.
Location
Issued
Covina
---334 Covina --------- 1898
West Gate _:_______J35 Los Angeles ______ 1899
Fruitvale -----~--__J36 Oakland - ------ 1899
Carquinez _______337 Crockett --------- 1899
San Jacinto _ ______338 San Jacinto.__________ 1899
Fullerton
39 Fullerton - - - ------ 1900
Oxnard 41 Oxnard ---------- -- 1901
San Fernando
343 San Fernando_____ 1902
Starr King ___________---344 San Francisco ----- 1902
Brentwood --------345 Brentwood ------- 1902
Palo Alto______ _--346 Palo Alto ------- ---- 1902
McKinley __
47 Richmond ------···· 1902
San Bernardino ________J48 San Bernardino ---- 1902
Sequoia
49 Oakland ---- - - - 1902
Palestine 51 Los Angeles _____ 1903
Sunset ___
52 Los Angela _ _______ 1903
53 Pinole ------------ 1903
Pinole - - - Presidio .__
54 San Francisco ---- ---- 1903
Hollywood
---355 Hollywood ------- 1903
56 Mill Valley ____ 1903
Mill Valley---Buena Park ___--357 Buena Park --- ---- 1903
Golden State.._______--358 Los Angela - -------- 1904
Loyalton - - - -- - 3 5 9 Loyalton -------·-··· 1904
San Francisco ___--360 San Francisco ------- 1904
Fort Bragg _ _----361 Fort Bragg __________ 1904
Charity ___
62 Campbell - ------ 1904
Berkeley ______363 -Berkeley -------- 1904
Willits
65 Willits ------------- 1905
Las Palmas __
66 Fresno --------- 1905
South Pasadena ________J67 South Pasadena --- 1905
Unity --- 68 Glendale ---------- 1905
Ocean Park ________369 Ocean Park _______ 1905
Amity__
70 San Francisco ------- 1905
Le Progres de l'Oceanie...371 Honolulu, H. T, ___ 1905
72 Gardena -------- 1906
Gardena - '73 Sawtelle ·--------- 1906
Veteran
Jewel _ _ _ ____----374 San Francisco ---- 1906
Richmond _________375 San Francisco ----- 1906
Francis Drake ______----376 So. San Francisco __ 1906
Artesia
..JTI Artesia ------------ 1906
Mizpah 78 Los Angelea·------------ 1906
Fillmore
379 Fillmore -·------------ 1906
Huntington Beach ________ J80 Huntington Beach .... 1906
Oceanside ________ ..J81 Oceanside ----------- 1906
Highland Park _ _ __J82 Los Angela __ ________ 1907
83 Orosi - - - ------- 1907
Orosi - - - El Centro ________ ..J84 El Centro.________ 1907
Dinuba - - --------385 Dinuba ------------ 1907
Coalinga ________ J87 Coalinga - ---------- 1907
Parnassus __________388 San Francisco -------- 1907
Palos V er~-------------J89 Long Beach ----------- 1907
Imperial
---390 Imperial ---------· 1908
East Belt .
91 Tuolumne ------··-- 1908
West Lake ....- - ----···-- -·--J92 Los Angele• ---·---- 1908
Balder -------------393 San Francisco ----·--- 1908
University
-394 -Los Angeles------------- 1908
Turlock ____:_:______J95 Turlock - ------·----- 1908
Apollo ··-···· - - - - - - J 9 6 Alameda --------······- 1908
Rising Light __________397 Huntington Park __ 1908
Fraternity ______J99 San Jose ______________ 1908
Burlingame ------- --400 Burlingame ------ 1908
Bay View _______401 Oakland -------····· 1909

MemAmi.
Fees Fees Dues bers
50
9 212
75
15 801
50 25.00 12 749
12 150
50
50
9
88
50
12 371
50
1.00 12 236
50
9 231
100 . 10.00 12 579
-30
12
90
54
4.50
9 450
9 295
75
55
5.00
9 470
50
1.00 12 895
75 10.00 12 546
50
12 415
50
12 126
75 15.00 12 570
50
1.00 9 913
80
15 310
9 122
30
50
9 858
69
50
9
100
12 353
50
93
5.00 9
9 108
75
50
9 525
5.00
9 134
50
1.00
80
3.00 9 619
80 15.00 10 507
12 402
75
80
12 348
50
5.00 12 484
80 10.00 12 352
55
5.00 9 141
75
3.00 12 183
100 30.00 12 150
50 10.00 12 579
75
5.00 12 181
50
9
85
50 15.00 12 400
50
1.00 15 156
50
9 240
9 120
50
75 20.00 12 404
50
15
87
12 234
75
9 175
50
100
12 261
100 10.00 12 652
75
9 470
61
5 10.00 12
50
5.00
9
62
50 50.00
9 1007
50 20.00 12 495
50
12 524
12 163
80
75
1.00 12 379
50
12 483
9 384
50
50
18 396
5.00 12 327
50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

278

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347

Brawley _______402
Yerba Buena._____________403
Glendora ____ __________404
Moneta ______________405
406
Burbank
La Mesa.________________407
Sierra Madre _________________408
Honolulu ____________409
Charter Rock__________410
________411
Perris
Calexico ____________412
Waucoba ___________413
Arlington _ _ _ _ _ _414
Silver Trowel ________415
Lindsay ____________416
Clovis ------~-------417
Elysian _______418
Upland ___________419
Kerman _·___________420
Inglewood _______421
Eagle Rock ____________.422
423
York ----Exeter ____________424
Holtville __________425
Midway ________426
Chino Valley________427
San Dimas _____________428
Pittsburg __________429
McCloud _________430
431
Alpha - - Hammonton ________433
___________
434
Maricopa
Fairmount _ _ _ _ _435
Claremont ----~--436
Lancaster ---------------437
Acacia _____________438
Tyrian _______._ _439
Standard __________440
- - -441
Coronado ------__ ___________
442
Blackmer
Schofield --~--------443

348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
364
365
366
367

Carpinteria -~-------444
Wilshire
La Puente----~---------445
____________446
Torrance _ . ~-----447
Mt. Diablo __________448
Park -----·----~---·---449
Van Nuys ~--·-----450
Montebello _ _ _ _ _451
San .P asquaL___________452
Bethlehem _________453
____________454
Crocker
Golden West-_________ __ _455
Ramona ------~------------457
Henry S. Orme___________455
Riverbank ------·-------459
Mount Oso_____________
-·-·--------460
461
Argonaut
Paul Revere ~--·----462
Morgan HiJL_____________463
Alta Vista-------------464

Location

Charter
Issued

Brawley ------------ 1909
Oakland -------------- 1909
Glendora ----------- 1909
Los Angeles·------- 1909
Burbank ----------- 1909
La Mesa ------------ 1910
Sierra Madre._________ 1910
Honolulu ----------- 1910
Berkeley -------- 1910
Perris ------------- 1910
Calexico ------------- 1910
Big Pine ----- ---------- 1910
Los Angeles__________ 1910
Los Angeles._________ 1910
Lindsay -------------- 1910
Clovis ---------- ------- 1910
Los Angeles __________ 1910
Upland --------------- 1911
Kerman ------------ 1911
Inglewood ------------ 1911
Eagle Rock ------------ 1911
Los Angeles ______ 1912
Exeter ----------------- 1912
Holtville ------------ 1912
Taft ------------- 1912
Chino ---------------- 1912
San Dimas·------------- 1912
Pittsburg ----------- 1912
McCloud --------- 1912
Richmond ---------- 1912
Hammonton --- ---- 1913
Maricopa ---------- 1913
San Francisco --------- 1913
Claremont ----------- 1913
Lancaster ------------ 1913
Los Angeles__________ 1913
Manteca ·----------- 1913
Oakland ----------- 1914
Coronado ·---------- - 1914
San Diego -------------- 1914
Schofield Barracks,
H. T. ------------- 1914
Carpinteria ---------- 1914
Los Angeles.___________ 1914
Puente -------- --------- 1914
Torrance ------------ 1914
Concord -------------- 1914
San Francisco ------- 1914
V;m Nuys ---------- 1914
Montebello ------------ 1914
Pasadena --------------- 1914
San Francisco -------- 1915
Daly City ------------- 1915
San Francisco ------- 1915
Monterey Park.______ 1915
Los Angeles.~----------- 1915
Riverbank ------------ 1915
Tracy --------------- 1916
San Francisco ------- 1916
San Francisco -----·---- 1916
Morgan Hill ---------- 1916
San Francisco ----- 1916

Fees

Ami.
Fees

5.00
75
80 25.00
60
50
50
50 3.00
50
80 10.00
80
5.00
30
3.00
50
5.00
30
50
75
5.00
50
50
80 5.00
50
3.00
80
3.00
80
50

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Dues

Members

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

126
403
101
675
231
129
84
232
412

9

77
143
44
312
307
152
210
443
141
52
284
253
163
153
96
371
59
110
145
113
409
66
153
521
97
110
73
103
315
173
502

12
9

12
12
9

10
9
9

12
12

9
80
10
50
9
75
12
50
50
9
12
50
1.00 12
75
9
50
9
75
50
9
50 20.00 9
12
50
50
9
5.00 12
55
50 10.00 12
12
' 50
12
50
9
50
9
80

80
50
50
50
50
80
100
80
50

5.00
20.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
3.00
3.00

70
50 15.00
50 3.00
105 10.00
50
• 75
30
80
6.00
80
100 10.00
50
1.00
105

279

9
9
12
9
15
12
12
9
9
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
9
12

zoo
72
525
67
194
157
460
255
217
357
326
262
474
205
534

76
184
353'
528
91
279

Lodge

368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
398
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406

407
408
409
410
411
412
413
'414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429

No.

Center _____:_ _ _ _465
Libertas ____________ 466
Culver City______________ 467
Rockridge _ ______ 468
Yorba Linda _______469
Lincoln _______470
Delta
-~---471
_______472
Maui ___
Blythe
473
Victory _ _;_______474
America --·-------475
Coachella _ . _____476
Temblor --~------477
Thousand Oalt•--------- 478
Golden Rule ________479
Fellowship ~--. -480
Mt. Davidson ______481
Clarence F. Smith_ ______ 482
483
Bell -------~
Albert Pike _____ _484
Chowchilla __
485
Caledonia ~:_______486
_________
487
Vallejo
Patterson ---~------488
489
East Bay - - Corcoran ----------------- 490
Woodstock ____________491
Garvanza _ _ _ _ _ _492
Atascadero
493
Acorn ~----------494
________495
Lebanon
Riverdale ________496
Fremont
497
Stockton ________498
Capital City_________499
Roosevelt _______500
Westwood ___
501
Harbor ________502
Point --'----------503
_________504
Seaside
Silver Cord _ _ _ _505
Mount Olive ----- - - -506
El Segundo _________507
Joppa -----·-----------508
Benjamin Fr11nklin _______509
Cupertino -~--5 10
Sunnyvale .,..,;
511
Palms
12
Cahuenga ~-----513
Argonne ___..,;._
514
Vernon Square _____515
Taft ----~----516
Mount Vernon _____517
La Jolla ---,~--··--,..-.-518
---··------------519
Euclid
Ionic ________________
520
________521
Piedmont
522
Sunrise .--·--·Bellflower --------------------- 523
Catalina Island ___________524
George Washington _____525
26
Bay City--··

Charter
Issued

Fees

Fresno - ·------------- 1916
Bakersfield
1917
Culver City -- ----- 1917
Oakland ----------- 1917
Yorba Linda ----- - 1918
San Francisco ------ 1918
Stockton ----------------- 1918
Kahului, H . T, ______ 1918
Blythe - -------- 1919
San Francisco----- 1919
Los Angeles ___________ 1920
Coachella --------- --- 1920
Fellows --------------- 1920
Berkeley ___________..__ 1920
San Jose -------- - -- 1920
O akland ------------- 1920
San Francisco -------- 1920
Los Angeles __________ 1920
Bell ------------- 1920
Los Angeles .._________ 1920
Chowchilla ---------- 1920
Bakersfield ----------- 1920
Vallejo ------------- 1920
Patterson - -------- 1920
South Berkeley ------ 1920
Corcoran --------------- 1920
Alameda ------------- 1920
Los Angeles ___________ 1920
Atascadero ------------- 1920
Oakland - ---------- 1920
San Francisco ------- 1921
Riverdale -------------- 1921
Oakland ------------ 1921
Stockton -------------- 1921
Sacramento --------- 1921
San Francisco ------- 1921
Westwood --------- 1921
Richmond ---------- 1921
Richmond ----------- 1921
Long Beach _________ 1921
Santa Ana - -------- 1921
Los Angeles ___________ 1921
El Segundo·---------- 1921
San Joaquin.------ 1921
Los Angeles.___________ 1921
Cupertino ------------ 1921
Sunnyvale ------------- 1921
Palms ------------------- 1921
Los Angelea ___________ 1921
San Francisco -------- 1922
Los Angeles __________ 1922
Taft ··--··----------- 1922
San Francisco----- · 1922
San Diego ------------ 1922
Los Angeles ·--------- 1922
Los Angeles ...__________ 1922
Piedmont ----------- 1922
Los Angeles__________ 1922
Bellflower ··----------- 1922
Avalon ------------- 1922
San Francisco--- ----- 1922
San Francisco ----- 1922

80
100
75
75
50
100
80
50
50
65
75
75
50
75
75
50
105
50
50
75
50
75
50
50
80
75
50
75
50
80
100
55
50
80
75
80
35
75
75
80
50
125
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
100
50
50
80
100
50
50
80
50
50
100
50
100

Location

Ami.
Fees

Dues

Members

9

323

12
12
5.00 12
12
10.00 12
12
12
5.00 9
15.00 12
25.00 12

248
19L
357

9

5.00

15
13
9

1.00

12
18
9
9

15.00 12
1.00 12
12
10.00
9
2.00 12
12
10.00 12
1.00 12
10
5.00 9
10.00 12
10.00 12
2.50 12
1.00 12
12
10.00 9
5.00 12
10.00 9
9
9
12.00 10
1.00 12
10.00 9
9
5.00 9
12
9
9
4.50
9
5.00 9
5.00 12
9
12
10.00 12
12
9
10.00
9
5.00 12
10
9
12
10.00
8
10.00 12

99

280
280
127

i7
220
333
80
122
327
346
184
301
262
182
204
56
144
223
69
263

70
163
170
56
312
303
56
265
115
163
150
191
155
92
282
223
445
173
52
199

76
117
184
304
341
338
162 .
210
137
242
298
204
165
158
105
275
205

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

280

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

___ ______ 527 Los Angeles.............. 1922
430 Covenant
Beverly
Hills
____-528 Beverly Hills ·-------- 1922
431
29 Los Angeles _____ 1922
432 Loyalty
530 Fresno - - - - - 1922
433 Sun Garden .
434 Alexandria _ _ _ _ _531 San Francisco ----- 1922
32 Ceres ---------- 1922
435 Smyrna - 33 Fullerton ----------- 1922
436 Azure -1922
34 San Francisco ___
437 Forest Hill
438 Alexander Hamilton. --535 Los Angeles- - -- 1922
536 San Francisco ---- 1922
439 Seal Rock
37 Los Angeles___________ 1922
440 Utopia
538 Los Angeles _____________ 1922
441 Ascot
39 Belvedere ---------- 1922
442 Belvede~=443 Queen Beach -_ _ _ _540 Long Beach --------- 1923
444 Henry Morse Stephens ..---541 Berkeley --------------- 1923
445 Lanketshim -------542 North Hollywood .... 1923
446 Signal - - - --------543 Long Beach ------'- 1923
44 Glendale - - - - - 1923
447 Glendale
545 San Francisco ------ 1923
448 Jonathan
San Gabriel_ _____ 1923
449 San Gabriel ~----546
'.'i47 Arcadia --------- 1923
450 Arcadia __
48 Venice --------- 1923
451 Triangle ____
452 Justice _ _ _ _---549 San Francisco ---- 1923
San Francisco ___ 1923
453 Seaport - - - - - - - 5 5 0
551 Oakland - - - - - - 1923
454 Lakeshore
455 Semper Virens -----552 Eureka ------------- 1923
456 Golden City --------553 San Francisco ------- 1923
554 San Francisco -------- 1923
457 Educator
458 White Pine ______555 Weed - --- - - · 1923
556 Fairfax ------------- 1923
459 Fairfax
557 Hermosa Beach ________ 1923
460 Hermosa _
461 Point Firmin---------558 San Pedro - - - - - 1923
59 Los Anjeles ____ 1923
462 Craftsman
560 Oaldan ------ ---- 1923
463 Plymouth
464 East San Diego..- - - -561 East San Diego ---- 1923
465 Pyramid - - - - --562 San Francisco - - - 1923
63 Los Angeles-----'----- 1923
466 South Parle
564 Oalcland --------- 1923
467 Foothill
565 Los Angeles. _______ 1923
468 West Adams.
Los Angeles _______ 1923
469 James A. Garfield- - -566
Long Beach --------- 1923
Searchlight
567
470
471 Parle Boulevard.-------568 Oakland -------------- 1923
472 Chateau Thierry_____569 Oakland -------------- 1923
473 Military Service _____570 San Francisco - - - 1923
474 Francis K. Shattuclc..___571 Berkeley -------------- 1923
Los Angeles____________ 1923
475 James Madison ___________572
573 Berkeley --------- 1923
476 Hillcrest
574 San Diego -------- - - 1923
477 S. W . Hackett
575 Fall River Mills_ _____ 1923
478 Fort Croolc
479 El Cajon Valley_ _ _ _576 El Cajon ------- 1923
77 Los Angeles______ 1923
480 Sunnyside - 578 Los Angeles _____________ 1923
481 Progressive _
482 Warren G . Harding .____ 579 North Sacramento __ 1924
483 Santa Maria- - - --580 Ramona -- --------· 1924
581 Balcersfield ------ 1924
484 Security
_ _ _582 Rialto --------------- 1924
485 Rialto .
83 Wasco -------~-- 1924
486 Wasco584 Los Angeles ________ 1924
487 Harding _
585 Los Angeles ------ 1924
488 Manchester
Garden Grove _______ 1924
489 Garden Grove _ _ __ 586 Los Angeles _______ 1924
490 Valley Forge- - --587 Los Angeles __________ 1924
491 El Sereno ________588

Ami.

Fees

Fees

Lodge

MemDues

bers

9 261
50
5.00 12 199
75
9 226
75
9 340
80
5.00 12 121
80
47
9
70
12 192
50
94
55 10.00 12
1.00 12 133
75
50 10.00 12 130
9 426
50
9 231
50
9 205
50
9 105
80
5.00
9 276
80
9 232
5.00
75
12 256
50
50 . 24.00 12 327
5.00 12 154
50
12 133
50
12 91
50
5.00 15 101
50
75 10.00 12 155
100 25.00 12 172
5.00 12 185
50
12 119
50
5.00 12 72
50
5.00 12 109
80
90
2.00
9
55
12 105
55
12 128
60
12 251
80
9 193
50
1.00 . 12 181
50
9 219
60
1.00 25 162
50
9 291
50
5.00 12 230
80
12 213
50
9 134
100 30.00
9 320
80
5.00 12 201
80
171
1.00
50
100 10.00 12 256
9 168
5.00
75
9 160
50
12 57
50
9 188
80
1.00 12 71
50
12 64
50
4.50 12 251
50
9 236
75 15.00
141
49
12
30
12 175
100
9 86
55
12 109
80
70 25.00 12 153
55 20.00 12 214
1.00
9 90
50
50 12.50 - 9 179
12 123
50

492
493
494
495
496
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552

No.

Kauai
589
Compass _ _ _ _ _ _590
Escalon
591
Tujunga
92
All States
593
Service
594
Alexander Graham BelL-595
Guardian
596
Truth
597
Pearl Harbor
598
Carmelita ____
599
Lynwood ..
600
Grizzly ----------601
Melrose
602
Dimond __
603
Jubilee -------------604
Glassell Parlc _____________-605
Sojourner
607
Granada
608
Provident
609
Elmhurst
610
Canoga
--61 1
Temple City
612
Three Pillars
613
Larchmont
14
Hemet
15
Seal Beach--------616
Big Bear- - - - - --617
Southland
18
Neptune
619
Point Loma ....- ------620
The Garden•----------621
Atwater
22
Menorah
623
Fortitude
624
Angeles Mesa
625
Chula Viata
626
Lamanda Parlc- - - - - -627
Beacon of the West. - --628
Fairview
29
Ingleside ----------630
Benevolence --------631
Normal Heightl-----------632
Poinsettia
33
Victorville _
34
Riverside ___
635
John Marshall -------...636
Palisades - - - - - 6 3 7
. 638
Indian Rock
Composite
639
Veritas
640
James A. Foshay_______64l
La Cumbre
-642
Alta Loma__
43
Lomita
644
A. F. E. Irwin._______________645
Metropolitan ___ ___ __646
Hawthorne ________647
Damascus _
48
Florence
649
La Brea __
650

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

Ami.

Fees

Llhue, T. H.______ 1924
75 10.00
70
2.00
Pomona ------------ 1924
50
Escalon - - - - - 1924
Tujunga - - - - 1924
50
Long Beach _ _ _ 1924
80
Long Beach _____ 1924 · 75
Los Angeles______ 1924
50 5.00
South Gate _ _ _ 1924
50
Los Angeles _______ 1924
5.00
50
Honolulu. T. H. __ 1924
80 15.00
Pasadena ------- 1924
70
50
Lynwood ------------- 1924
50 10.00
Portola ------------ 1925
Los Anrles_________ 1925
50 10.00
60
1.00
Oaklan ----------- 1925
Santa Ana _;________ 1925
50
1.00
Los Angeles ------------- 1925
50
Monrovia - -- - - 1925
50
Alhambra ____ 1925
50
Sacramento ------- 1925
75 10.00
Oakland - - - - 1925
1.00
80
Canoga Parle ___ 1925
1.00
75
Temple - - - - - - 1925
50
Sacramento ----- 1925
75 10.00
Los Angeles_ _ _ 1925
50 15.00
Hemet ------------- 19 25
30
Seal Beach --------- 1925
45
Pine Knot ---------- 1925
30 30.00
Los Angela.______ 1925
50
Long Beach ----- 1925
75
San Diego __, ____ 1925
75
Los Angeles ________ 1925
50
Los Angela ______ 1925
50 12.00
Los Angeles _____ 1925
75
Oalcland ------ 1925
80
1.00
Los Angeles _ _
- _ 1925
50
5.00
Chula Viata ___________ 1925
50
1.00
Pasadena --------- 1925
50
Los Angeles ____ 1926
1.00
50
Inglewood - - - - 1926
80 23.00
San Francisco---------- 1926
50
Los Angelea _____________ 1926
80
60
San Diego - -·----------- 1926
San Buenaventura ___ 1926
50
55
Victorville ---------- 1926
Riverside -~---- 1926
50
Los Angeles ..__________ 1926
80
Santa Monica------ 1926
80
80
5.00
Berkeley ------ 1926
Los Angela ________ 1926
75 10.00
San Francisco ---- 1926 100 10.00
Los Angeles------------- 1926 105
Santa Barbara ____ 1926
75
Signal Hill ___________ 1926
75
60
Lomita ----·-·----- 1926
80
5.00
San Pedro -------------- 1926
Los Angeles___________ 1926
50
80
3.00
Hawthorne ---------- 1926
San Bernardino ._______ 1926
5.00
75
Los Angeles _____ 1927
4.50
55
Los Angeles ___________ 1927
50 10.00

Dues

12
12
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
12
9
12
9
9
12
9
12
9
18
9
12
12
12
9
9
9
9
12
12
9
10
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
9

Membe rs

98
136
75
93
270
290
154
234
96
154
175
106
95
123
186
149
231
91
254
125
127
118
99
132
178
72
51
38
191
123
89
187
160
255
119
304
99
111
96
104
101
170
179
231
102
152
102
168
100
125
76
75
69
229

99
130
85
55
188
173
169

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

282

EXTINCT LODGES

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

Affil.
Fees

MemDues bers

Menlo ParJc ________________651 Menlo Park __________ 1927
50
4.50 1~ ~~
553
Crescenta
Valley
____________
652
Montrose
--------1927
55
554
55 10.00
~ ~~
555 Fontana ------~-------------653 Fontana --------------- 1927
~~
12 219
556 Jordan ___________654 Los Angeles . --------- 192~
557 Monte Vista-----,------------~~~ ~~: ~~~~~::::::=:::::: ~~~7
50
I.00 12 122
1
558
J~h~
D~--Sp~;~k;ls~:::::=:=~
657
San
Diego----------192~
~~
~; 2~~
559
1927
50
12 104
560 Livingston----------------- 658 Livingston
12 57
561 La Habra ------------------- 659 La Habra ______________ 192
Baldwin
Park
________
660
Baldwin
Park
.--------·
1927
50
562
98
Angeles ---·---·---- 1928
50
9
563 Malta ----------------------- 661 Los
Los Angeles ------------- 1928
50 10.00
9 176
564 Henry Knox ----------------662 OJ'ai ----------------- l928
45
15
46
75
12
74
565 Ojai __________...663 El Centro __________ 1928
1928
75
10
52
566 Oasis __:_______________________664
567 Kaweah -------------------------66' Woodlake -------------71
9
75
12 164
568 Reseda _________ __.666 Reseda --------------- 1928
569
::::==::::===
1.00 12 78
570
---------------·--San Jose ----------- 1928
50
5.00
9
98
an o
571 John P. Jarman .__________669 Whittier ----------- 1928
55
9 155
572 Greenleaf ------------------------670 San Clemente --------- 1928
75
9 31
573 San Clemente ----------·--671 Laguna Beach _______ 1929
50
1.00 12
46
Laguna
Beach
__________
672
75
10.00
12
127
574
673
San
Francisco
----1929
t
W
575 F ar
es ------------- -----Long Beach----------- 1929
50 10.00 12 84
576 Los Cerritos ________________674 Modesto ·---------------- 1929
50
9 131
Modesto
__________
675
50
9 78
577
930
·tt
GL
676
Willow
Glen
··----1
578 W • ow
en ...----------·--Los Angeles-----------·- 1930
50
10
69
579 ~t:d~n~rts-------------~-~~~ Pasadena ---------- 1930
70
12 1~~
580
~5
9 37
581 Canby's Cross.---------679 Tulelake --------- 1199~~
5
582 Carmel _____________...:680 Carmel --------··---------- -·- - - - - - 127 ,728
. August 1, 1936'-----------·----Total Membership

1

~eri~a;1g~;;i~--------~----~~ ~l~~1::

~~~: ~~

283

4
4
6
7
7
11
15

26
28
29
31
34
36
39

47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63
67
69
69
71
72
73

74
75
77
82
83
85
86
88
88
90
92
93
94

96
97
98
99

100
102

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco Aug. 18, 1852,
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov., 1851.
La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov.,
1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853, Charter never issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853 . Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt. Jefferson
No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct, 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct, 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13,
1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
Yuba, Marysville, 1854., Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov., 1864.
Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8,
Sept. 15, 1919.
Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct, 29, 1857.
Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69, May 2,
1855.
Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian
No. 9, Dec., 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. I, 1858.
Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Chartt'r surrendered Dec. 27, 1859,
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Di 1pensation granted 1857. Charter never issued.
Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin H ~l, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
Mountain Forest, Eureka Ne ith, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. I :onsolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma
No. 180, Dec., 1898.
Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 115,
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, Nov.,
1882.
Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910,
Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
March 29, 1916.
Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena, Oct. 10, 1867.
Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No, 96, as Howard No. 37,
·
Dec. 8, 1924.
Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19, 1926.
Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913 .
Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct., 1898.
Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.

284

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Colum·
bia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surren~ered ~pt. 27, 1879. •
114 Mc. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never 1SSued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Scar Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now known
as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter su.rrendered. Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1~65.
Doric, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never issued.
151 Palmyra, Placttville, 1862. Consolidated \tith El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 10, 1862.
'
152 Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendtted Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July l~, 1.86~ •.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to JUrtsdictton of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
155 Mount Carmel Red Dog 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
.
.
158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendtted Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25,_ D_ec:, 1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to Jumd1ctton of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
.
f N d
eva a,
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction o
Jan. 16, 1865.
. . . .
..1.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to Jumd1ctton of Neva....,
Jan. 16, 1865.
6
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transfttred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 1 ,
171
172
175
176
177
180
182
185
189
197
213
218
223
227

d
. . d" .
f Neva11a,
j_
1865.
Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferre to JUr1s ict1on o
Jan. 16, 1865.
d
16
Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Neva a, Jan. ,
1865.
h
.
d
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May ~5, 1864. C arter never issue .
Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
.
Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct .. 16! 1.8~9.
Azclan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred co 1unsdiction of Arizona, March 25,
1882.
.
Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as No. 180, Dec.,
1898.
Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuclcle, Oct, 16, 1919.
Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867, Name changed to Claiborne.
Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
.
Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never issued.
Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 188?·
Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

285

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendtted Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No 287 D;c 20 1918
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to juris dicti~n of .Ari~ona, March
l!5, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4 1881. Transferred
'
to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March
25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgetrville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 We~tport, W~stport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tynan, Dunnigan, 1886. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911.
298
Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, !-fueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
340 Santa Mana, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No 264 Oct 13
1910.
.
'
. '
342
Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred C0 jurisdiction of Philippine Islands
Dec. 19, 1912.
•
'
350 Cavite, Cavice, P. I., 1903, Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands Dec 19
1912.
'
. '
364
Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct. 1, 1917.
371
Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
386
Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands
Dec. 19, 1912.
'
398
Fowl~r, Fowler, 1908. C:onsolidaced with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
432
Granite No. 222, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432, as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438
456 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
611 Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 18, 1925.
Owensmouch, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15, 1931.
0

0

1868

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850.
1856

1850
Jonathan D. Stevenson, G. M.
Callfornla No. I
Born Jan. I, 1800
Died Feb. 14, 1894
John A. Tutt............ D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner ........S. G. W.
Sashel Woods ,,,, __J, G. W.
Levi Stowell ...._ .. __ ,,... 6. T.
John H. Glhon .............. G. S.

1851
John A. Tutt.............. G. M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 17, l'IOO
Benj. D. Hyam ...... D. G. M.
E. F.
Ellis ,,_,,,_s. G.
Benj. S. Olds ...... _..J, G. W.
Towns'd A. Thomu ...... G. T.
Levi Stowell .................. G. S.

w.

w.

1852

1862

William H. Howard .. G. M. William C. Belcher .... G. M.
Corinthian No. 69
John A. Raymond .. D. G. M.
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Lemuel Lyon ··-··-·S. G. W.
Died Sept. I, 1895
Peter W. Randle ....J. G. W. Gil. B. Claiborne .... D. G. M.
dd
•
G T John W. Harville .... S. G. W.
A ison Martin............ • · John B. Hewion ...... J. G. W.
Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S. James Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.

1857

Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
Wa1hlngton No. 20
Born Feb. S1 IS25
Died July ll, IS97
Charles Marsh ........ D. G. M.
Aaron D. Parlt.. ......S. G. W.
John B. Pope..........J. G. W.
Addison Martln ............ G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G, S.

1863
William C. Belcher .... G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Louis Cohn ............S. G. W.
Wm. A. Davies ...... J. G. W.
James Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.

1864

William C. Belcher .... G. M.
Benjamin D. Hyam .... G. M.
1858
Gil. B. Claiborne .... D. G. M.
Benicia No. 5
Nathaniel G. Curtis..G. M. Wm. A. Davies........ S. G. W.
BornChas. M. Radcliff .. D. G. M. P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M. Isaac S. Titus .......... J. G. W.
Adolphus Hollub ....S. G. W. Wm. McCormicL.S. G. W . James Laidley ~ ............G. T.
J. R. McConnell ....J. G. W. Jes. W. Bicknell.. ....J. G. W. Alex G. Abell... ...........G, S.
Addison Martin ............G. T. Addison Martin ............G. T.
Levi Stowell .................. G. S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.
1865

1853
Charles M. Radcliff .. G. M.
Tuolumne No. 8
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Died Dec. 31, 1887
T. A. Thomas. ......... D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall.... S. G. W.
Richard F. Knott....J. G. W.
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Levi Stowell .... _ ..,........ G. S.

1854

1859
Nathaniel G. Curtis .. G. M.
P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M.
Ebenezer Lane ........S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hawley ......J. G. W.
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

1860

287

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

286

Gilbert C. Claiborne..G. M.
San Joaquin No. 17
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 170S
Wm. A. Davies...... D. G. M.
ls~ac S. Titu1..........S. G. W.
Henry H. Hartley..J. G. W.
James Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.

1866

Nathaniel G. Curtis..G. M. Gilbert C. Claiborne ..G. M.
William H. Howard .. G. M. P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M. Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher......S. G. W. Wm. H. Petenon .... S. G. W.
San Jose No. 10
Born Aug. 2', 1810
Alvinza Hayward ....J. G. W. Thomas Beck ..........J. G. W.
Died Sept. IS, 1866
Addison Martin ............G. T.
Nath. G. Curtis.... D. G. M. Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S. James Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.
Rector E. Cole...... S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ...... J. G. W.
1861
1867
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Levi Stowell .................. G. S. James L. English ...... G. M. William A. Davies ...... G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Columbia No. 2S
1855
Born June 5, 1813
Born Feb. 5, IS27
Died May 27, 1887
Died June 20, 1716
William H. Howard .. G. M.
T. A. Thomas .......... D. G. M. Wm. C. Belcher.... D. G. M. Henry H. Hartley .. D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond .. S. G. W. John W. Harville....S. G. W. Thomas Beck .......... S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt......J. G. W. Caleb E. Wilcoxon .. J. G. W. Leonidas E. Pratt.... J. G. W.
Addison Martin ............ G. T. James Laidley ..............G. T. James Laidley ..............G. T.
Levi Stowell ..................G. S. Alex G. Abell... ....... _.. G. S. Alex G. Abell... .........- G. S.

1882

1875

Charles Mersh ............G. M. John M. Browne........ .G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Naval No. 87
Born Dec. 6 IS2S
Born May 10, 1831
Died April 2s, IS76
Died Dec. 7, IS74
Leonides E. Pratt.... D. G. M. Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M.
Theo. G. Cockrill.. .. S. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnin ......S. G. W.
Fredk. F. Baru........J. G. W. Jacob H. Neff........ J. G. W.
James Laidley .............. G. T. James Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...........G. S. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.

Clay W. Taylor..........G. M.
Jonath. D. Hine1 .... D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson .. S. G. W.
George Hinds ........ J. G. W.
Moses Heller ................ G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

s.

s.

1883

Jonathan D. Hines ...... G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
1869
1876
Born Jan. I, IS25
Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M. John M. Browne.......... G. M.
Died Dec. 30, ISS6
Mountain Shade No. IS
Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M. Wiley J. Tinnin ...... D. G. M.
Sorn Aug.
2', 1833
Died
Oct. 25,1886
Wm. S. We II 1.......... S. G. W. Ed m. C · Atl•
.inion·· S· G · W •
Isaac S. Titus .......... D. G. M. Solon W. Craigue .. J. G. W. ' Hiram N. Rucker.... J. G. W.
J h S W d
S G W James Laidley .............. G. T. MJ°ses Heller ................ G. T.
?
hn d. D a, r ........J. G. w' Alex G. Abell... ........... G.
A AX G. Abell.. ............ G.
1c
ar
a
e
..........
, . .
R
James Laidley .............. G. T.
1877
1884
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. John M. Browne .......... G. M. Jonathan D. Hines ...... G. M.
Chu. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M. Wiley J. Tinnin ...... D. G. M.
1870
Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M. Wm. W. Traylor......S. G. W. ; Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W .
Wm. H. Crane........ J. G. W. Hiram N. Rucker....J. G. W.
Isaac S. Titu1 .......... D. G. M. Moses Heller ................ G. T. Moses Heller ................ G. T.
Ches. L. Wiggin ....S. G. W. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
Benj. H. Freeman .... J. G. W.
1878
1885
James Laidley ..........- .. G· T.
Alex G. Abell ..............G. S. John ., Browne
G
.,
Wiley
J.
Tinnin
m.
.......... ' m.
Trlnlty No. 'II............ G. M.

1871
Wm. W. Traylor .... D. G. M.
Born Oct. 7, 1827
Died Nov. 24, 1710
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M. Wm H. Crane........ S. G. W.
Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M. Robt. C. Broder...... J. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson .. D. G. M.
Ben. H. Freeman .... S. G. W. Moses Heller ......_........G. T. Hiram N. Rucker....S. G. W .
H. Knapp ....J. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkin1......J. G. W. Alex G. Abell... ...........G. S. 1, Henry
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
James Laidley _,, .......... G. T.
1879
! Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S. William W . Traylor....G. M. '
1872

1886

1874

California No. I
d
L•
Born March 17, IS22
E mund C. At.1n1on .. G. M.
Died Jan. IS, 1883
Sacramento No. 40
Samue I C. Den1on .. D. G. M..,
Born
Died Nov.
March172o,1837
1711
Clay W. Taylor......S. G. W . . Hiram N. Rucker.... D. G. M.
J?hn Q. Adam1 ...... J. G. W. Morris M. Estee ...... S. G. W.
I ose1 Heller ................ G. T. ; Alvah R. Conklin .... J. G. W.
Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S. , Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
1880
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
Samuel C. Denson ......G. M.
1887
Union No. 68
Hiram N. Rucker ...... G. M.
Born Sept. 23, IS3'
La Grange No. 77
Died July 26, 1717
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Clay W. Taylor ...... D. G. M.
Died Dec. 13, 1705
John Q. Adams.. .... S. G. W. , Morris M. Estee...... D. G. M.
O. W. Hollenbeck .. J. G. W. ' Alvah R. Conklin .... S. G. W.
Moses Heller ................ G. T. Wm. Johnston ........ J. G. W.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. Nathan W . Spaulding .. G. T.
1881
Alex G. A;;~S........... G. S.

George C. Perkins ....G. M.
Oroville No. 103
Born Aug. 23, IS37
Died Feb. 26, 1723
John M. Browne .... D. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker........ S. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ...... J. G. W.
James Laidley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

Clay W. Taylor..........G. M.. Morris M. Estee ........ G. M.
Western Star No. 2
California No. I
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died May I, IS97
Died Oct. 7, 1703
Jqhn Q. Adams ...... D. G. M. Alvah R. Conklin .... D. G. M.
Jonath. D. Hine1 ....S. G. W. William Johnston .... S. G. W.
Thos. J. Bowers...... J. G. W . Marc. D. BorucL ... J . G. W.
Moses Heller ................ G. T. Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S. Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.

Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M.
Ben1.• H . Freeman .. D• G · .,
m.
Geo. C. Perkin1 ......S. G. W.
John M. Browne....J. G. W.
James Laidley _,,,......... G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.

1873
Isaac S. Titu1 ..............G. M.
Su Joaquin No. 17
Born Oct. 14, IS27
Died April 22, IS'2
Geo. C. Perkin1...... D. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne...... S. G. W.
Chu. E. Mitchell .... J. G. W.
James Laldley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

288

1901

1895

1889

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Edward M. Preston ....G. M. William S. Wells........G. M.
Martinez No. 41
Born June 24, 111&1
~:;;,ad~a~\ 1 841
Died Jan 23, 1919
Died Aprll 24, 1903
Wm. T. Lucas........ D. G. M. 0. S. Henderson .... D. G. M.
Thomas Flint _, .......S. G. W. Chu. W. Nutting .. S. G. W.
F. M. Angellotti......J. G. W. Geo. W. Hunter ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T. Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ..........G. L.

Morris M. Estee........G. M.
William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritman .. S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.

r

1890

Alvah R. Conklin ...... G. M.
1902
1896
Inyo No. 221
S. Henderson .... G. M.
Born 1835
William T. Lucas ........ G. M. Orrin
Mornln9 Star No; 68
Died Oct. 5, 1897
Guadalupe No. 237
Born-William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Born March 18, 1850
Chas. W. Nutting .. D. G. M.
Died March 21, 1931
Chas. R. Gritman ..S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme...... J. G. W. Thomas Flint .......... D. G. M. Geo. W. Hunter ....S. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. F. M. Angellotti ....S. G. W. Motley H. Flint......J. G. W.
George Johnson .......... G. S. Chas. L Patton ......J. G. W. Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T. George Johnson ..........G. S.
George Johnson ..........G. S. Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L
1891

1903

William Johnston ...... G. M.
CharlH W. Nutting .... G. M.
1897
Franklin No. 143
Evenln11 Star No. 186
Born June 2, 1825
Thomas Flint.. ............G. M.
Born Oct. 3 1852
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Texas No. 46
Died Sept. lo, 1917
Chas. R. Gritman .. D. G. M.
Born May 29, 1858
Geo. W,- Hunter.... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ...... S. G. W. F. M. Angellotti .... D. G. M. Motley H. Flint ......S. G. WJas. B. Stevens........J. G. W. Chas. L. Patton ...... S. G. W. Edw. H. Hart... .......J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. ; Jas. A. Foshay........J. G. W. Edward Coleman ..........G. T:
George Johnson ..........G. S. Edward Coleman .......... G. T. George Johnson .......... G. S.
. George Johnson .......... G. S. Wm. H. Edwards.. ........G. L

1892

1904

1898

Charles R. Gritman .... G. M•. F k M A
II tf G M George W. Hunter.... G. M.
Yount No. 12
ran
· nge 0 I.... • •
Humboldt No. 79
Marin
No.
191
·
Born1838
Born Dec. lo•
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died Oct. 14, 1925
Died May 14, 1894
Died May 23, 1932
H I
D G "
Henry S. Orme...... D. G. M. Chas. L. Patton ...... D. G. M .. Motley • F int...... • · M.
Jas. B. Stevens........ S. G. W. Jas. A. Foshay........ S. G. W. Edw. H. Hart..........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston ......J. G. W. W
S W II
J G W Geo. M. Perine......J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. Ed:~rd c:le'.;;~~:::: ..: ...
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson
G S•
J h
G S George Johnson .......... G. S.
.......... • · George o nson.......... · · Wm. H. Edwards.. ........G. L.

G. {

1893

I

1899

1905

" : Charles L Patton ......G. M. : Motley H. Flint..........G. M.
H enry S. 0 rrne.......... G • M.
Ealt Gate No. 290
· Born Feb 19 111&5
So California No 278
California No. 1
Bo;>~n March 25, 18l7
t~~~ ~ 6 ~ll I I lnl
Died July 14: 1930 •
Died Nov. 29. 1912
, .
Ph , D G
Edward H. Hart .... D. G. M.
J.u. B. Stevens.__ ... D. G. M. Jas. A. Fos ay........ · · M. : .Geo. M. Perine...... S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston .... S. G. W. Wm. S. Wells.. ........ S. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd ....J. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas .......... J. G. W. 0. S. Henderson .... J. G. W. · Edward Coleman ..........G. T.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T. Edward Coleman .......... G. T. G
J .h
. G S
George Johnson .......... G.
George Johnson .......... G. S. WeorgHe
nsodns............
G. L..
m. • Edowar
.........

s.:

1900
1894

1906

James A. Foshay........ G. M. Edward H. Hart..........G. M.
James B. Stevens........ G. M.
So. California No. 278
live Oak No. 61
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Born 1858
Yount No. 12
Died
Jan.
14, 1914
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Born March 27, 1841
Wm. S. Wells.. ........ D. G. M.' Geo. M. Perine ...... D. G. M.
Died Dec. 6, 1919
Edw. M. Preston .... D. G. M. 0. S. Henderson .... S. G. w.· Reuben H. Lloyd ....S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..........S. G. W. Chas. W. Nutting .. J. G. W. Oscar Lawler ·--·'---··.!. G. W.
Thomas FlinL ......... J. G. W. Edward Coleman ..........G. T. Edward Coleman .......~.&. T.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.· George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson .......... &. S.
George Johnson .......... G. S. Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L. Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L

1907

' 1913

289
1919

George M. Perine.....;&. M. John D. Murphey ___ &. M. Chas. Albert Adams..&. M.
Alta No. 3U
Excelalor No. 166
Pacjfle No, 136
Born July 7, 111&3
Born Nov. 25, 111&7
Bom 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Benj.
F.
Bledsoe
......
D.
G.
M.
Geo.
F. Rodden .... D. G. M.
Reuben H. Lloyd:... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler..........S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett......S. G. W. Sam. E. Burke..........S. G. W.
W. Fra11k· Pierce ...•J. G. W. F. V. Keesling ........J. G. W. Wn1. A. Shermen....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filn1er......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......&. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. John Whicher ....._..;..••&. S. John Whieher •....••..•...• &. S.
Thomas J. Baker...- .....&. L. Thomas J. Baker..........G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... &. L.

.1908

, 1920

1914

Oscar Lawler ............&. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe.......... G. M. George F. Rodden ....&. M.
Marin No. 191
Ealt Gate No. 290
San Bernardino No. 348
Born Dee. 24, I11&7
Born April 2, 1875
Born-Died Mar. 8, 1934
W. Frank Pierce .... D. G. M. Alb. G. Bumett.... D. G. M. Sam. E. Burke ...- .. D. G. M.
Daria R. Weller. .....S. G. W. F. V. Kee1lin9 ........S. G. W. Wm. A. Shuman:_$, G. W.
A. J. Monroe ..........J. G. W. W. Rh. Hervey ........J. G. W. Arthur S. Crites......J. G. W.
Edward Colemen.......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmitr...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... &. T.
John Whlcher ..............G. S. John Whlcher ..............G. S. John Whieher ..............&. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........&. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J, Beker.......... &. L

1909

1921

1915

W. F;ank Pierce........ &. M. Albert G. lumett ...... G. M. Samuel E;· Burke........ &. M.
SunHt No. 352
Oakland No. 188 .
Santa Rosa No. ~
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Born April 9, 1856
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Died ·Au9. 15, 1923
Dana R. Weller...... D. G. M. F. V. Keesling ........ D. G. M. Wm. A. Sherman .... D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe .......... S. G. W. Wm. Rh. Hervey.,..S. G.
Arthur. S. Crites......S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer........J. G. W. Bradford Webster..J. G. W. David J, Ree1e........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G, T• Wm. Parker Filmer...... &. T.
John Whicher -·---&. S. John Whlcher .... _ .._.6;'5. John Whieher ..............&. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L Thomas J. Baker~ .........&." L Thomas J. Baker.......... &. L.

w.

1910
. Dane R. Weller.......... G. M.
So. Callfornla No. 278
Born March 24, 1874
A. J. Monroe .......... D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer ......,..S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey ........ J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T.
John Whicher -·--·-&• S.
Thomas J. Baker..........&, L

1911 .

1916

1922

Francis V. Keesllng ....G. M. William A. Sherman .. G. M.
PrHldio· No. 354
California No. I
.Born Sept. 17, 1880
Born Feb. 17, 1877
Wm. Rh. Hervey.... O. G. M. Arthur S. Crltes.~.... D. G. M.
Bradford Webster..S. G. W. David J. Reese ...... S. G. W.
Chas. A. Adams....J. G. W. Alb. E: Boynton......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......&, T.
John Which er~.........;..•• &. S. John Whieher ..............&. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... &. L

191:7

1923

0

Wm; Rhod-. H ervey.. G. M•. Arthut' S; Cfitei.......... G. M.
Bal:ersfleld . No. 224
Penta lp1ta No. 202
•
Bom Feb. 4, 1879
Born March 26, 18711

Alonzo J. Monroe ...- G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Dlad June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer........ D. G. M.
J, D. Murphey........ $. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe...... J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..........&. T.
John Whicher ..............&. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Bradford Webster.. D. G. M.
Ch.u. A. Adams ...... S. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ...... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............&. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

David J. Reese ...... D. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton ...... $. G. W.
Geo. L. Jones .. :.......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......&. T.
John Whieher ..............&. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........&. L.

1912

1918

1924

Wm. P. Filmer............ G. M. Bradford Webster ......&. M. David J. Reese ............ G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Kln9 Solomon No. 260
Live Oak No. 61
Born Au9. 22, 1871
Born March 3, 1866
Born Dec, 14, 1869
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Jno. D. Murphey.... D. G. M. Chas. A. Adams .... D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton ...... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ...... S. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ...... S. G. W. George L Jones .... S. G. W.
Alb. G. Bumett......J. G. W. Sam. E. Burke ..........J. G. W. Will H. Fiseher...... J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......&. T.
John Whicher ....... _ ....G. S. John Whicher ·-·-··-···&• S. John Whieher ....- ......&. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L Thomas J. Beker..........&. L. Thomea J. Baker..........&. L

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

290

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1933

1929

' 1925

"Albert E. Boynton:.....G. M. C. M. Wollenbetg ......G. M. ·Jame1 B. GilL....,....G. M.
Oroville No• 103
St..r King No. 344
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Oct. 9; 1875 ·
lorn March 13, 1873
Born. A~9, 8, 1868
.Geo. L Jones_______ O. G. M. 'John S. Rou.: ...:.... D. G. M. It. 'V. Whlting ...:.... D. G. M.
,Will H. Fischer ____ S. G. W; Robt. B. Geylord ....S. G. W. Earl Warren ..........S; G. W.
· Gus. A. HutafL.....J. G. W. Frank W. Mixter....J. G. W. ·Rollitt- W. Miller,...J. G. W.
· Wm. Parker Film11r....;.G. T• .Wm. Parker Fllmer.,....G. T~ Wm, Parlier Fllmer......G. T.
John Whioher ..............G. S. ·John · Whicher ...,....;..... &. S. -John Which er -·---·····-·-·6• S.
Thomn J~ Beker__________ G. L.
· Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomu J. B"eker.c________ G.

l

. . 1926-

'

1930

'' .

1934 .

Georg~ L. JoniliLc.....G. M; Jolin Stewert Ross: ..•..G: M\ Rendo.fph V. Whiting..G. M.
Madison No. 23
Bor~ May II, 1873

El Centro No. 384
M_ay 21, 1879

_Bor~

King ·Solomon · No. 260

_!lo~~ Nov. 13,_ 1~70

e:

.Will- H. Filcher.•....D. G. M. 'Roht.
Geylord ..,.D. G. M. Earl Warren ..........D. G. M.
. Gus. A. HutafL..... S. G. W , "fiank .W. Mixter ....S. G. W. 'Rollie W. Miller......S. G. W .
.c. M. Wollenberg..J. G. W. JamH B. Gist..- ....J. G. W. James. T. ·Freser......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. 'Wrn. Parker· Filmer...... G. T. Wm•. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whlch•r·.--····;•.c..G. S. John Whicher ........._...G. S, John . Whicher ········'---·&. S.
Thomas J.- Baker..........G. L Thomes J. Beker..........G. L Leslie E. Wood ............6. L.

1927

... . 1935

1931

Will H. Fischer .......... G. M. Robt. B. Gaylord ...,..- G. M, Earl Warren •....;...........S. M.
Wilshire No. 445
Oakland No. 188
Seq~ola No; ·349
Born Sept. 11, 1875
·1orn Nov. 24, 1176
Bo.rri March 19, 1891
Gu1. A. Hutaff..____ o. G. M. Frank W. Mixter....D. G. M; ·Rollie. W •.Miller...... D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg ..S. G. W. James B. Gi1t..........S. G. W. Jame$ T. -Fruer......S. G. W.
J. S. Ross........;..__J; G. W. .Wm. A. Sitton........J. G; W; Leo11 .Q. _Whitsell....J. G. W •
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T; Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T: Williem P. Filmer -------·'°· T.
John Whic:her __.......G. S. John Whic:her -···-····--G. S. John Whii:her ·---------·--&• S.
Leslie E. Wood:___________G. L
J. Beker..........
Thomes J. Babr..- ......G. L. Thomes
...
. G. L
~

1928

1932

. 1936

Gultev. A. HutefL...G. M. Frenk W. Mixter........ G ..M. Rollie W . Miller__________G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Dunsmuir No. 297
Ei1eter No. 424
Born Oct, 17, .1883
, Born Oct. 5,_ 1879
lor~ Dec. 30, 1873
Died Oct. It, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg .. D. G. M. Jamet B. Gi1t.,..
G, M. James .r. Frese_r...,..D. G. M.
J. S. R:o11....:...........S. G. W . Wm, A. Sitt.on........S. G. W. Leon 0 . . WhitselL.S. G. W.
Robt. B. Gaylord:...J. G. W . R. V. Whiting ........ J. G. W, William H. Weste ..J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T~ William p; Filmer________ G. T.
John Whioher ......:.:_..&. S. John Whicher _.:.....:~.6-. S. John Wbicher:............... 6..$;
Thomes ·J. B.elier........_G. L. Thom_!!• J•. Bau~---·-··-G• L, Leslie t:. Wood ..............G. L

:._o.

291

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alberta (J. H. W . .S. Kemmis) .........- ..............:................. _ ....................... <.:algacy
BrazilThe Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of Rio Janeiro
The Grand. Lodge !)f the St:tte of Pa11ahyba
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paula
·
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of Para
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
British Columbia (W. A. DeWolf-Sniifh) ......::...................... New W estminster
Canada, Ontario (Win. M. Logan) ....:..................................................... Harnilton
Chile (Rudolfo C. -Oliveira) ............................ Cassila No. 2867, Santiago, Chile
ColombiaNational Grand Lodge at Barranquilla, Apartado 333
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena .
The. Grand Lodge Regular of the Republic of Bogota.........- •......~.....
(Dr. Carlos Hernandez) ..............................................~ogota, Colombia
Costa Rica (G. F. Bowden) ...........:...........:·············................................... San J ose
Cuba (Dr. Jose F. Castellanos) .......•.........:........._........................;.............. Habana
Czecho-SlovakiaThe Grand Lodge Lessing of the Three Rings
The National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia
Both Seated at Prague
Denmark (F. R. J. Ancker, Grand Secretary) ...........:.....................;......... ::.~.
····-··-·:-···:··:··--···-:···..······-··············.......Raadhuspladsen, 14a, Copenhagen
Ecuador (Jose de la Cuadra)................................._. ..,....•...............;......•..... Gu~aquil
Egypt ( Abd E l Maguid-Younis) ........Freemason's Hall, ,6 Fouad 1 St., Cairo
England (P. Colville Smith) ........................................................................ London
FranceGrand Lodge of F rance (Auguste Viet) ....................8 Rue Puteaux, Paris
Independent National (W. ]. Combes), 42 Rue D Rochecaouart, Paris
Guatemala (Francisco Salazar) .........................................................., ... Guatemala
Holland, Netherlands (A. E. L. Faubel), Fluweelen Burgwal 22, T he Hague
Honduras (M. F . Rodriguez) ..........................................~...................Tegucigalpa
Ireland ( Henry C. Shellard) ............................................................................ Dublin

~

.'

MexicoGrand Lodge of the Pacific.... Postal 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, D. F.
York Grand Lodge.............. Apartado 1986, Mexico City, Mexico, D. F.

·PROCEEDINGS ·OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Manitoba .............:...·-······--········--·--.:.·--··.-·······-'-·····-:-·-.--··············Winnipeg

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

292

New Brun.swick (],.Twining Hartt) ..._....,----·---·-':····-·····--.·-·'--·Saint John
New South Wales (David Cunningham, P, D. G. M.)·-······-·······-········Sydney
New Zealand (George Barclay) ·'·········'····'··'·'··-·''·······-~·-·····•····•:...•.. Christchutcn
Norway (E. Lowig-Hansen) .•................- ...········-··-···..-····~:.•.........•......:.:.;•.;Qelo
·
· ··
· · · · · Halifax
Nova Scotia (Jan1es C. Jones) ......................
···:··.,.····-············-···-·1···,.--.·-:.
Panama (Jose Oller) ..•...-·--"'······:.....;.;.....·.....•"-:0:·.::.•••:••_········-·······--"-..-·.Panama
P eru (Gerardo Alam.a
• ) ··-,•······-······-·········..········~w~····-·'·
· .
•~:.,..·.......
. . ..:..
....•..••
. .,..,...Lima
. ·

·
·' ··
· Manila
Philippine Islands (Teodoro Kalaw ) ·-·········-·::..·-·-···--····-·-·····-····
Porto Rico (Jose G. ·Ginorio) ........--.":"···-···•··-·7 ····-···•·····:-'"•···-··:·····-S,an Juan
Prince Edward Island (Ernest Kemp) ....................--·······-.-·······Charlottetown
.
. w. w· 1·1·1·tamson) .................
. ...
MQntreat
Quebec (W.
_.......:·····:-·:·········:-·····,:·-··.······~~. .
,
Queensland (Leslie P. Marks) ...............................................................:~-,.Brisbant;
Salvador (Salvador Grand Lodge)·-··-.·-·········•-~ ...:...;;.. _.:.•;..;....:;.~Cuscatlan
Saskatchewan (W. B. T~te)--:··········-~·-······-~.:.......:....-·······--··.···...:··:.....:.•R~gina
.
.
.
w· •. •. ) .
.
. Edinburgh
Scotland (Thomas G.
1nmng ··················-~·-···········:···-·················:::
Serbes, C~oates and Slovenes. (S. Chokor~h) .................... B~ograd, Jugoslavia

A
A. E. F . Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250) Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport. ·
Altadena (678) , Altadena.
Alta Vista ( 464), San Francisco.
Alta Loma (644), Signal Hill.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

South Au~tralia (Chas. R : J. G!over) ............ -······················:···········-·:•·Adelai~

Sweden (Yngve G. - Wisi~) ....................:................... Frimurarelogen,_Stockholm

Switzerland·
·
The Swiss Grand Lodge Alpina (Arn nl <l Raschle, Grand Secy.) ..,....
-·-·---·····-············..······························;···---·"-:-.:..'.""-.-:-··'-:-·Z!Jrtch, 18 .
Tasmania (W.. H._ Strutt) ...:·"::···········-.···· .. ··'······-···-·-.····-•···...··:··'.:-:··:->···~HQbarf.
Victoria (W. Stewart) ....- ....;:...........:._:::.::::;;...:.....:.:::.:.:::.:..........;;..::.:.:Melbourne
·
(WIa d'1m1r
· M'tsar ) ...~-·········-·····················
· · · · l Dorotheergasse 12' Vienna
Vienna
Western Australia (J. D . Stevenson) .....:.:......-,."._:....:..:.............:...................Pertlr

293

Amity (370), San Francisco.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182) , Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero ( 493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder '(393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Bay City. (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Beacon of the West (628),
Los Angeles.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell ( 483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belvedere (539), Los Angeles.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
·
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.
Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412) , Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga. ·
Canby's Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.

Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Pine Knot.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402) , Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195) , Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406) , Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpio teria ( 444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337) , Crockett.
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock ( 410), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.

294

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clarence F. Smith (482),
Los Angeles.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Chowchilla ( 485), Chowchilla.

Citro! (656), Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Clovis ( 417), Clovis.
Coachella ( 476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.

D
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton . .
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.

E
Elsinore (289) , Elsinore.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eucalyptus (243) , Haywards.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
Evening Star (186), Etna Mills.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Exeter ( 424), Exeter . .

Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
East Gflte (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561),
East San Diego;
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

F
Fairfax (556), Fairfax.
Fairview (629), Inglewood.
Fairmount ( 435), San Francisco.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco.
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.

Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Francis Drake (376), South
San Francisco.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

295

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.

Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland . .
Fullerton (33~), Fullerton.

G
Golden Gate (30), ,San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479) , San Jose.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

Galt (267), Galt.
.
Garden Grove. (586), . Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544); Glendale.
Glendora (404) , Glendora.
Golden City (553), San Francisco.

H
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Holtville ( 425), Holtville.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, H. T.
Hope (234), Beckwith.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Huntington Beach (380),
Huntington Beach.

Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Harding (584);Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, H. T.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Henry Morse Stephens (541),
Berkeley.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.

I
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.

Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Fairview (629), Inglewood.

James A. Foshay (640),
Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield (566),
Los Angeles.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Jefferson (97), Laporte.
Janesville (232), Lassen.

J

Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636),
West Hollywood.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego.
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose. ·
Jonathan ( 545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

296

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Justice (549), San Francisco.

Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.

K
Kilauea (330), Hilo, H. T.
King David's (209),
San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260),
San Francisco.

Kauai (589), Lihue, H. T.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

L
Lexington (104), El Monte.
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
Liberal Arts (677), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
Libertas ( 466), Bakersfield.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach. Liberty (299), Santa Clara,
Lincoln ( 470), San Francisco.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
La Jolla (518), San Diego.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
• Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lancaster (437) , Lancaster.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Lankershim (542),
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
North Hollywood.
Los Angeles ( 42), Los Angeles ..
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Los Banos (312) , Los Banos.
La Puente (446), Puente.·
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Loyalton (359)1 Loyalton.
Lasse·n (149), Susanville.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
le Progres de 1'.0ceanie (371),
Honolulu, H. T.
·

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Manchester (585),' Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Marin (191), San Rafael
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, H. T.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.

Meridian (667), Glendale.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Midway (4Z6), Taft.
Military Service (570),
San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Morgan Hill {463), Morgan Hill.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.

297

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
.Mount Davidson (481),
San Francisco. ·
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mount Jac~son (295), Guerneville.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.

Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mountain Shade (18) , Downieville.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mountain View (194),
Mountain View.

N
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230) , Gridley.
North East (266) , Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190) , Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Newville (205), Paskenta.
Nicolaus · (129), Wheatland.

·O
Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301) , Ontario.
Ophir (33) , Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oasis (664), El Centro.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.
Park ( 449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568) , Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286) , Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
P~::irl Harbor. (598), Honolulu, H. T.
Penrhyn' (258), Penrhyn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.

Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Pet aluma.
Phoenix (178) , San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521 ), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Pinole.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60) , Quincy.
Plymouth (560) , Oakland.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620) ,- San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Porterville (303), Porterville:
.Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Lo·s Angeles.
Provident (609) , Sacramento.
Pyramid (562) , San Francisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
Redondo (328), Redondo.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
. Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto.
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.

Rising Light (397),
Huntington Park.
Riverbank ( 459), Riverbank.
Riverdale (496), Riverdale.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
San Bernardino (348),
San Bernardino.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
San Jose ( 10), San Jose.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
San Pasqual ( 452), Pasadena.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia (302), Kings City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Santa Moriica (307), Santa Monica.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Schofield ( 443), Schofield Barracks,
H. T.
Seal Beach (616), Seal Beach.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.

Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre ( 408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Vaney (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Los Angeles.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow "Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco.
South West (283), National City.
Speranza I taliana (219),
San Francisco.
Standard ( 440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton ( 498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Sunset ( 352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W . Hackett (574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple City (612), Temple.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Texas (46), San Juan.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.

Torrance ( 447), Torrance.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle ( 548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (597), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian ( 439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
U n!ty ( 368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle~ de France (329), Los Angeles.
ValleJo ( 487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.

Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Veteran (373), Sawtelle.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory ( 474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano ( 56), Volcano.

w
Warren G. Harding (579),
North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Waucoba (413), Big Pine.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), Willow Glen.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire ( 445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
' Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

York (423), Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

299

INDEX-1936
A .

Page
Ac~~i~ Lodge, charter restored........................•.·-·•··-····.-...········-····-·-··-······ 33
Acc~un'ts_;.Rep~rt of Committ~e
~ll~
•••: ...................- • .'...............................-..•• 195
.
.
Activities-Appropriation for......_ ......:........- ............,............,.....-T....., ...~-·'.•"·-·.218
. ~e?o~t-· of_ ~o~~~~. ··:··:-···::-··:-:·····•·-<-·······--;··..-·····,..:·-···-·'7······23~
Amendments
to By-Laws
-········---"'-····-·····A···········..·- 37
.
. ..................................
.
Annual Election-Grand .I.odg.t;.................-.............
.269
Annu~l Elections~Change of date..:...~........~.....................,,...,....................226, 235

7

M ••, ••••••••• , . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . .

Annual
Oration
··································-·······························-····················--·····•·····
48
.
. .
.
.
Appropriations
......................•....•............•
_
.•.......
212,
214, 215, 216, 217, 218, 219
. ·. . .. . .
...
.
.
.
I.
.
Assessment proposed for . Endowment. Fund................•......................•..153, 223
Audit of Accounts................................................
- ...........-:.,._
..
. ................,_..........213
Auditor's r•port........_.-·········-··································-······-····-···-···..-··-- ··········-·· 38

B
Bailey, Warren G.-Donation to Masonic Home.....:.......~...........:..........:....:.. 56
Ballot on Petition-When irregular..........................:......................................... 16
Baldwin, Charles S.-Cornerstone laid by...:.....-::.:...:.....::...:...:..........:....:........ 24
Bartenders-Eligibility ·of:::•.: ••.:..•:.•••- ..:.•..••::.;..~.::.:....•..•..•:......•...........•...•••.22; 222
Board of Control-Annual reporL ..:;.;...:..........:...........:......................................196
Empl~yment set'Yice....·.............;....:..............:...·...................:.::........................209
Reimbursements ...:............-"········'······-·'·';......:...-............................................196

;•

Relief Statistics ············-····~··········:·····-···············-·····-··-····-·-·-·······...::......19T
Boards of Relief-Appropriations for .................'.._ ............................................214
Borach, Bernard-Received.:.:;...:.:........":..:...:..:.:.:.::......:...............................__:. 8
ifruck, Leo--Investment of Lodge ·funds.-.:..·.;..:.-.:.....~...:..........................153; 230
Building projects-Report of Committee on~~...·.......:..;.,...:...~...........:..:..~...:.:t4s
Budget ........·.......................·.:.··-'•-····- ·..-._,,.,"···•·....·...;..,...~.....:..-.:.............~..,.......- ......:..:........219
Burke, Samuel E .-Portrait of ordered........................- ...................................217
By-Laws Amended...............................fi.....-·········-··--········-··························· 37
Report of Committee on.........._...., ...............,....- ......:- ..- ......:_.....:............:..195

c
Camp, Harold-Appointed Grand ·Chaplain·..:·...~:.............:..:........................... 8
Devotional service by.:..•.:.:_:.:.:...~......:.:.:..:.....:.::.:.::.-..•..,......i.:.......................:.......- 9
·C-an·by's··Cross· Lndge constituted..:.::::....-.:.:.:..,.:.:....:.:.:...:.:~----..:.~...~...:::......:...:..:... 23

ii

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Carmel Lodge constitut!!d..r.:•..:~ .•- ........•...;•.:...•..•..::;•.•:._.~-·-······················-······ 23
Cash receipts and disbursements .......................................................................... 39
Cemetery Associations-Use of name Masonic...................................... 152, 225
Charter restored ·················································::··~······~·:··:······:··:·;···:~:·.·:·.·;···-··:·:· 3~
Chowchilla Lodge-Unpaid toan ...:..:::•..:........•...•..............'......._..·········:···········:···21~
Clandestine Masonry-Committee made constitutiona1:·············152; 19~, . 23?

·,

.

.,, .. '" . ...... ' lnh

Report of Committee otL:.::...........:.....:..~.·-·····-····-············.-················:· 7V
Clinton Lodge-'Consolidation with Western Star L~dge......•...•..~:...'...:...... 3~
ci ubhou se-Report ·of Committees c;m...•:..::.:::::.:•.•:::::...•••••••.••..:•..•••~•.:...~1~5, 15?
Committee on Correspondence-Appropriation for :...:.......~ ........~...:...:.....217
Committees of Grand Lodge ....:........:...::..................- :... - ..•.:..: •...•.:....:-....::.....~
Conklin, Harold W.-Cornerstone laid by.:....::...:...:...:.:........:.....................:... 24
Consolidation of West~rn Star and Clinton Lodg~s.::...:..;..:.....::.................. 33
Constitutional Amendments-Sec. 22 (lost) ............:.......::::..........:...37, 227, 235
Sec. 27 (Carried) :...:...::..::.:....:.. ::...:..::...::::....::.;..::...:..;;::.........:....152, 194, 232
· Sec; 71 (Carried) :.....:.•...;...::.......:.............:..:..•.:.:.:.......•:..:::.....:~::1sz, 194, 232
Sec. 78 (Carried) .....................;,.....................................................- ......153, 231
Se~. 87 (Lost) .................................:::......................................................153, 230
Sec. 90 (Lost) ............._,,•.,.;..-...:.,,_.,._,........'.'"..•~.--•.;_,,..:...- ....;••...,;.37, 151
. Se~'. 93 (C~r~ied) ··:·······-········:··:;;····:·-····. .........:._ ...,.............:.•;.~...................23l
Sec. 94 (Lost) ···········-········-;..1.;.•.:.._••~••••,_.,,_.,,,,,.;., ••••_____, ......,,;.,,;•• lSl
..Sec. 129 .( Lost) ...............................,......_._..._.:....•..•.,;..,.•_..'..;...;.:;-~...........153, 230
Sec. i3s (Ca~ried) ..............................'...···"--.....,..............:...•..:........226, 235, 236

Sec. 166-A -·········································;········.···~.··.····-·.;_............. _,.lSl; 221, 235
Control of L~dge F,u~ct~····-:-···:...-._...~........·..:........,.'..........._........._. ....,-:........................;..234
Coope~, Charles R.-Res()h.~tion ..to provide .M.anuaL._...•..;..~...,........... 153, 230

· Res~l~ti~n rel~tive to life membershi).> fun4s···~····•·······;.•.:........:.,15~,_ 23Q
Correspond~~~~R~~olution ·t_~ :resume printing r~pcut....................-.151, -22,1

. Appropriation for_·:····.··-:-···.-··•.·.··---..-·-··;-.•.•..:..- .•! ..··-•········--··---··········~
Credentials-Report of Committee OQ:•••••••••;._.;_••••••••••••••••;_~••••••••: ••, ••••••••••; •••~

iii ;

Page
Dispensations issued ...,,..............................,.............,.........,...........,.,............_........ 36
Direct.o rs U. C. L. A. Clubhouse-Report of.................·--··-···-··-·········-157
Distribution of Report on Correspondcnce............................:-····-151, 221, 225
Drytown Lodge-:t.Jnpaid .loan.........................,...:...,.......,.- ...•........;_._____....216

. E

.

Ebbitt, · Frank K.-Greetings front~.................................:.................................. 8
Election ·of Officers-Date may be advanced..........................................226, 235
Employment Service .:...............:.c•••••••••••••••••••: •••••: ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••- ••••••••••••••••209
Appropriations for ..•..:....":...:.."-.:..........:..•.......:..............•........:......................214
Endowment Board-Anrrual Report of.................................;..................-........ 113
Appropriation.for..........:......................:......................:'........:.....:..............117, 212
Assessment proposed ..:.::.;.._.:..;;.:..:..:...:..:....:..;.......:.:.....:.................... 153,. 223
Contributions to .............._;······-····'-······-···············:......;................................. 118
Grand Master's reference to....:.......:............................................................. 25
Report of Auditors ··-··············-····-·····························································:.129
Esoteric work-System of teaching............................................................ ls-4, 224
Eulogy by Lloyd Wilson:...............:..............................................................- ....... 188
Expenses of Grand Master........................................................ ~ ..........................216
Extinct Lodges-List of............•:............................................................................283

F
Fifty-year ·tokens ·is.s ue·d:.:.::..:.......:......................................................................... 33
Filmer;· William.. P.-Dedication of Masonic hall by...................................... 24
Fisch.e r, Ch.ristian H.-Received · ··································-···································· 8
Fischer, Wil! H.-Instal!ation of Grand Sword Bearer by............................ 24
Portrait of ordered..:....::...........:......::...............................................................217
Finance-Annual Report of Committee on....................:...........- .....................211
Finances· of Grand Lodge.:.....:.....::.::...,:.:...:....................................:...................... 30

Crocker Lod~e-Dedicatio11 of ha!L..,.,.........,,.,,......,............ ·-·-·.··············.-·.-······~ 24

Flint, Charles N.-Donation to Masonic Home................................................ 56
Funds-Investment ·of ............................................................................................ 17

D

For refreshments, payment must be authorized.......:.............................. 19
Funds of Lodge.s -Amendment to life membership...................................... 21
Control · of ...,..............:.......................................................................:...............234
··Life Insurance premiums .............................................................................. 18

Decisions by Grand Master.., ...;.....c.."··'····..········'·:•••••••••: •••••••••••••• -···-··········16; 234
Devotional Service ·································································-·-···························· 9
Dedications-What buildings may ~e....•............................:........................... 18
Dimit-Change of F~rm .................................................._...........-.........._ .....225, 236
, . Ti~~. li.~it ~~::?.~?P~.s~~-:._.~._.·._._._._._._._..·::·:·:·.·:.-:'.·:··::··:·'.-.-:"'······':·-··:·"-..,·"'·-·~~··~

. ..Witho~t n~tice void......................................·-·-'-············-·······'··'"·--·:--:•--..... I~

t..a.•

-- · ··H·- -~ -

... .....

• •• • ••

000• •

•••• •

• o~O# O OOoO ooO O o O •

•

O •

0

o O

•

o

'

o

Pictures of Past Masters :.~·-···········'-·····•-···--······-········-~...:.............. f8, 227
Powers of trustees .......................................--:..................................,..... !&, 222
·.Special relief fund .........................................·-······-······--··-·-····-···-··-- 20
. What may not be used for ..........,..........~.-·.,......··--·-·--··--'··--19, 227

INDEX:
G

INDE:xt
Page

,./I
Page
,, .Q_ur Cou_~ try. ::::~-".'~--:-:~-:-:-:-:-:-~-:·:~·-::':-:·.···"._··::·-:~i-··:'+·-~--~.....~ ... r·~---·":·~--~·'...,.-! ___~·<: ,._:.;,_ 27-

Gambling ·.;.._ .. :.~~=i:..;:...;='·;·.;:..:.:.:.:. •.•••. o.::·.:.:.,,.., ....·••,:.:.:.:.""'"'''·"·'·'-',:.•.;t:::J.:...1~ 221, 235'
Constitutional amendment forbidding.. ;,;;_,__ ;.:..':.:. __. __ ,.:_ ...:..,..!......i_:.;..~ ....:1S1

Portrai t ordered ····-·······-······························-····························-•················216

J urisp;udence Committee report 'oiL.;.:..:::...:•...:•••~!-:: ...~:.!.:.: ..~ ..........:.~..;..::.~235:
Policy established ...·.. _._,,,,·.::..::.:.-.:.:.:..::...-<·"-····-"-•·::.....:...••~.:.:;,....~•.:.....;,•••i...--;.~221
Goodwin, Sam H.-Received .........·-················--·················--,··-·-··················· 8
Grand Lecturer-Annual report of.......il...... ...,.... -······-····-·····-····-········--··- 42
Grand Mast.e r's refere~ce_ to office 9ftr.•. -;..... ~r,:., ...""..,.;....;~:-'_....•!..,,26
Resolu.tion to restore o_ffice·Rfn.•···-"1P·-·i-~i··'.-_,,.f. ............~ ..... T.,.~~
'I:raveljng .~P.~ns~~ ....,.,·::·'=-·-·"'"·-:-·.-.·:·.····.-··.-.··::.··:::···:.·:····.cc·.··~~·.. -~·~l~
Grand Lodge, Offic~rs. attending ··.-·:::.····•··:··:···..,.:·::···:·.·:··.,-'1-.....,...:..,,;_.r-.,.~-:-:-":· 7
Proposal to m~~t at Saci:ia~~nt()_.:.".'.'..1...,......,...,q+··:--~·:,.......__ r·+·;:···- 7 ,....:224,
Grand !d11,ster,. Annual M.e~.S~IJ~:·::··:::···:,··:··::··:··::·::···:·····-:--';-.....:.1--'.--:....--..-:--~ .11
Biography of ····.· ·-.·.·.·-.-..... ·:::.·:::::··.-:···::·:·:.-:::····:·:····.···:··~---..--.7 ":" _ __,_•••• ,":'" 3
Bartenders eligibility of._...._._......._.._.,,......,,,,,-.-.:-:::'··-.-,,..,..... ..._,:-.•;~2,, 222
Condition pf Masonry .._. ..........,.......................... ___.;...•...:--•..,...~:··"'·-·-•- 11

Public Schools ··-························-·-,·········-·-·························-·········-·········· 27
Relief, Reference to ··-··············-·::....... __' ........
·-··--··········•···-················
25
• . ,,_,,}:,.
'
T- 1 •.':rw I · , .
Special communkations··c·a1Iea li'y.......
...:'.'' .) ·• '.:,,:1,. • .....
• t
....................................... - .........•............ 2 3
~ . . Submission of ·prbposed 1'Si$1~ii6ri'..:...;:...:.~:....-... :...:::...:.:..:'....'.~..:..........: 15.

., ·~~:i::~:~. :~~.:-~~~--~~:~:::::-~::::.:.::::::~::;;:~:::::::::::~::::::L:~:::~::~t::=:~:::::::~!:

~rand .. Secretary.:.._Annual Report oL.;....:... ;;:.:.:;:.':.:..:.:...:.::.-1...:;_;..:.::..:... '. .....fa

·Resolution to fix term ·of...;-....::.. '.::':.:'.:..:'..... L.'. ..::.... :'. ..... :....... ::.:......:::...:..::...151
Resolution to· reduce safary.:.;.'..::.. !...~:..:.. :.'.~ ...:..'.'. .... ~.::'.'. .......'..'.......~::....~::... t St
Salary ·ot ·:::... ::::.:::.-.-..:::::."L~;1: ....L..:.:'..~.::.. .-..:...... .'....:.:.L ..::...::. __ :.... ~.:.~--::.:~:.:2i 1
Tenure ·of ·office ·:::.,.:::::::::.-.:...-·::"···"'''·~·;,..:.::.:..:.....-...;.•:.::!.: .•~, ....:...:.::.:.:..•L ..229
Grand Treasurer-Annual rRepott ...................................................................... 29
Gtievances--Reports of Committee on ..::::.......... :.::.::...........:...:...........:......... 169

. Cornerstones _laid by.................... ,.............. ·-········:···-·.;.:...·-""·-~·-···:-·,•t· 23
Decisions by .·····-.-····-.-.····-.·.··.·:····.,,.......,..,......,;_.·-....,. ...;..,. ..,-....~····+-:-~ 16
;Bartenciers, .eligibility of._. ......,._ ........_,.......-_._.,..• ,..,.......--:··'··•···•,....2;?, 222

H
Harris, Oscar 0.-Death of

··

Islands~Visit of ~;~:~··~:.:·~~:-~:::::;:~::~:::;::::~:~;::::;:::::}::;;:;='.~······· ;;

Dedications, what building may _be·.-·····:~..,.,-:1..,. ..;._..,....,.,~-··-~r:- 18

Hawaiian

Dimit. without notic.e y()id ..,.,...__ .......'.,·.····;,···,7.... ~., .. -·~·-·•-UJ. 234

Hervey, William Rhodes-Portrait of ordered .........................................:::::::217

Eligibility of bartender............ ·-·····················-······························22, 222
Funds, investment of....•.•....~·-···············-···········-·-·--······-···17, 20
Honorary titles prohibited..................•.·-····-·,-···:····,-·'.····....,......._.'.•• 17, 22~
Irregular ballot on :p~tttion:... ,.;::.........:...:::..:;,:: .............;.: ______________.: 16

Hospit~l-:-Resol~tiqn to ,eslabli~hT·:··.:··:··:·· .. :···-: 7 ...... _ ..•:._...•.•.•....••..... 152, ,231
H ~dson'. E-_ ].-Greetings ·from ....::....~~.::.:..:...i .. ;:........:... ~·-····: .........:...'.._:.~:::.. 8

.

~

\

..

Life insurance premiums ..........:.......- .... ,...... ,.,...............,....,...,.._.........;. 18
Life membership,' how may; be amende.d..,, ........._. ..........-._....,.•......,. 21
L.iquor dealer, status ol.. _....................................- ...,.... _., ..........•..._. ..,..,.. 23

Honorary titles ··········-····-··········-·········l-~······-···········-··········,········-.............. 17, 227

Humble, John G.-Resolution to establish hospjtals ...... .,. ..... :.............. .152, 231
Humboldt Lodge-Unpaid dues ·-·····:·····;···:·~-~···:······-·: •........,,._......... --•..••,..215
Hutchinson, Melville-Resolutfon for assessme!}t for Endowment.......... 153
To eliminate lectures · ;.....:....... :::::::.:..:.:.~-~-~ ..,:................:............. :.....• :.. 153

Lodge funds ..::.:..................:..:.... ,.~·-···: .....,... _ ........ ,.,..-....'...:..-·-·····- 19
_Pictures of ·Past Masters ..·-·····--·--·······-·······:········: .. -·········-····18, · Z27
Purchase of building in which liquor is sold...•...,...•....., ....•,......,21, 22~
-

..-

• ••

.

. ·-

'

. '·· i.: ;:- J ~ • '

'

~

Relief fund of Lodge •..·--····--·····················-·-···:····:··:-:-:···;··:·'.-:'.";····:·:-: 20
Report' of''jurisprudeqce COl!lmitt~-e on:......:........:.......,..........:-·:...~.. 234
·Trustees, powers 0£......:......... ,...........:....:...:•.....'.-······-····:....•.:......:16; 18
Widow, status after remarriage ....................................................-.,.,.. 16
Endowme~t B.oard, Refe~ence to by Gran~ Master .....:.................,..- .•.. 25
.

•

•

•

. .

• ••

•

• •

,

• ••

•

~

• •. ,•

,

I

,

••

•'

T

"

,

•

.

Gamb.i ing ~:; 7:._._.~~~: ....~ .• ~:.~:::~~~::·:-·;····: •.,.~ ..-:.... ~:-··.···~.,··-·~-:····:~4, 221 1 235
Grand Lec_tu~er! refe~~n~~...to::·:··:·:·:··:·:···: ..:··:·······:···---····.,..:·"'-·······~»-r-· 26
Ha.waiian ..l$lands. _.........."''""""'"""""''"""""""""' ..,.-........ .,.,.,.......- •.:._••,_ 13
lnter}uris-Oictkmal .oontat:-ts-."··"'"'"'""''"''":::.~t.L., ...;..::.•. -..- ..- ••.____:__ 13

I
Income from relief fund · ... · ' : :·· ' • i'' · ' : · " ·: · • · ' '.· . , • · ·
.'
·········-·----··········-······-···························-···:·-···:- 21
Inspectors-Resolution to pay expenses .... :....._.: .. :.~'. ...'..:.......:.....:....:_:.154, 213
Insurance premiums ··'-"·····'··;:......:.. .....•..:....;..;; ..;;: ..:_....:..::.:.:J.:!.~:..!.:......::::......... 18
lnvestment of Lodge funds .... :.•...•.:."··'·"'·'···'··"··:.:::...!:.....:'.....~.:.. ·
•
. 17
Israel,. Roland R.-Appointed on -Committee..::.......:..:... ::~ .......
28

:::::::::::::::::::::=:

'I

J.
Jennie, Rudolph-Appointed Junior Grand Stewar.d.....;......:L:::.•. ~.,-.:·.!.......... 8
Jones,. George L..,,...Cornerstone laid by.:.;;~·······-"~~.. -:...•..:..•..:....-. .i.-.;.~:. 1 _ 24
' . Portrait of ordered._
.-.:.-.....;............. ;...i.._...;J..i~ ••-'.·•..........217
Jqri~prµde11ce .. Committee-Report oL-..._.- · · · · ·· -··-·•·-;:...1..........234

vi

INDEX

INDEX

K

Page

Keesling, Francis V.-Greeting from ...................,......;.;..................:..........:.....:. 8

L
Larchmont Lodge-Unpaid dues,..............,..........,.,......- ·........................-·-··--·--215
Le Fever, Roy !.-Resolution to amend section 129A..............................-.153
Libby, Warren E.-Report on Necrology..- ...............:.....................................178'
L~ederman, Benjamin-So!o by............:.,;.:..................,.........................- -......178
Life Insurance premiums._.................-............................................................... 18
Life membership-How may be amended........................................................ 21
Life Membership fund-Resolution relative to_... _ .....- ................~ ..........230
Liquor-Purchase of building in which is sold............................--...--21, 227
Liquor dealer-Status 01.......................................................
23
Listenwalter, C. E'.-Insta\led as Grand Sword Bearer....................- ......... 24
u

..........._

. . . . . .- . . ;. .

Lodge funds ................................................- .......- ......................................- ..-~ 19
Lodges-Extinct ......................................................................................................283
Lodges-List of ....................................:..'...............................................................273
Lotteries ....................................................................................................................
Constitutional amendment iorbidding................................................lSl, 235

14

M
Mallachowitz, C. E.-Resolutions presented ......:.151, 211, 217, 225, 226, 229
Masonic History-Report of Committee on......~........................... ~.................149.
Masonic Homes-Annual Report of Trustees....._ .......~................................ 54
Report of Finance Committee on............,...................................................213
Bailey, Warren G.-Gift 0£................................................................,........... 56
Cash receipts and disbursements................................................................ 57
Comments of Finance Commitf!le............................................................2p
Covina-Annual Report of Superintendent,..........._ ...................-·····-- 91
Admissions in the year ......---------··----·-···-------....- .......110
Children departed ..........................................,...........- ....- .......,....~...J 11
Christmas donations .................................- ..·----·--···-··----·---.. ~
Donations to ...............- .......................- ....................- ............- .......- 99
Home expenses ........................................................................................ 64
List of children at.................: ..............................................................106

·····-··--------·-·-·--·---.·--·1-........,_,....:..;.___

Outside relief
.;._fli.
Decoto-Annual Report of Superinteudent.....- ..........................- .......... 71
Admitted in the year.............--··-·-----·-··..................................... 88
Christmas donations to ......---···;;..............:.........................~ ............-: 76

vii

Page
Died in the year..............................................~....:..........~ ..:.:.:...........:...... 90
Donations to .............................................................:................:.............. 74
Home Expenses ...................................................................................... 63
Names of re&identa...................................................:...~ .. ~.:. ..~:............:... 80
Outside relief ............................................................................................
·
·
87
Donation by Charles N. Flint.....................................;.......;........._............... 56
Endowment Fund ...........................,.....- ......................................................; 56
Field investigators ..........................:............,...........................,...................... 54
Legacies received ................................................... . .
56
Movie machine . donated .......................................
56
Our method of training children...................,..............~.............:................ 56
Report of Secretary.... _...:...........~..............................:·...~....:.:............:.........:..: 57
Report of Social Worker....................................................:............................. 68
Scholarships ......................................................:... .
·
54
Masonic Hospital
· ·
·
·
.. -~...................~......:.........: ..
......................................................................................:.....15.t., 231
Masonic name by cemeteriea....................~ ..........:............:.-.........~.; ........:.:..152, 225
Masonic Temple Association-Report of.....'.........:.::....:.._....;;.........................211
Masters-Life memberships to retiring ..........................................................226
Memberships of the jurisdiction............................................................................ 32
Memorial services ..................................!....
...
178

:.:.::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

-~~crament~

=:::::,..::::::::::::::::=:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~

Met!ting at
..................,..,....,..._..
Mee_ting place of Lodge-How may be ch~nged.; ..........................................231
Miller, Rollie W.-Cornerstones laid by.....;..-~...............................................
Mix_~er,_ Frank W .-Cornerstone laid by..................................- .......................:. 24

24

.N
Necrology-Report of Committee on.•·........" ..'"'"'"·--·' .. :.:.;..;,.:.::.: ·.. .
Northamer, J. E.-Resolution to pay Irispectors.:.:.'..

·: ·. ·. 178

::.:.L..:.::,.::::::=::::::::.:::154

0
Ogden, Wil_liam B.-Appointed on Committee on 'Grievances..........'........ 8

~:~~i:: _o:~::~d::·~~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::=:~:::::::::::=::::::::~:
04r Country-Grand Master's reference
io.~.:..........
:..... ~.. 27
. ..
. ,....~.... ~.:..... _ .........
.

p
Pajl\ro. Lodge-Reim b.ursement.of ...........................................:...::.....:......:......;..2l8
f~rke.l", ./\.lan . B.-Violin. solo. by....................- ...............................;.;.;.;.,.:.:.::..;.~:....178

IND~X

INDEX

yjji

Page
Past Grand Masters in atteiidance.......·-··-··-········:..-.;.._:.:. ..:...:.._..;.;._......... 8
Past Masters-:-Pictures . of........... ·-········--··---··--··-~··-"-··':-•.!·-········· 18
Pay of Memhers,.,...,.Report . of .Committee...................:..- ..·--~-.:....;...:...-.....:...........210

ix

Page
APPropriations ...............,,...,,... ~ ....--..;_...;._.:..:..·.•..:.. __ .,_212, 214, 219
Audit.of Accounts ......................................._....•....,...;,;._.....l..:-·-·'-···..:-.........213
Boards of Relief m ....... _.............................. -·-··--"'···-·•-·;····---··········214
Budget .. .;,._.....,.. ___;............. ____ ;. ___ ..:__..:.._.. _....- .....•;__ _....:. .... _....219

. Appropriatipn. for ··----··-··:..····--····-........&~--...;~-~-·:...• ...;.;.::J-'>::.-•• - •.,...218
Resolution .. to reduce. PllY··-····-··········-·-·"'····---···.J-.:.:.•.•.....:.:.~~J..- ... _151
. Time of. paymenL.·-··-···-·····--·-·-~··'-···•:..•...L...•••- •.:. _.•~ •• ~-:-:.._._:m
Pay of lnsp.ectors .---··--··-·····-······---·--·--···.:..._.:...::;_.:...•~-·154; 213
Pay of Representatives~Resolution to .decrease ........ - ..........,.:.........:...'..154t 229

Correspondence Comn:iittee ....:... _.:.:•...... ...,....•. _, ..:,.-~........_:..............217
Endown:ient Bo<1rd . . ,"........................ ,,,,__...:.....----····-···.:.·-··-..;..;.. ____ .212
. Expen11es of .Grand Master...........•..._.·--·~--···········1-•.:. ... ..:_..__;...216
Grand Lodge Week Actlyities. ...............•.:................. - ..·'····-·-···········218

Per. Capita Tax . lev.ied.........................--·····-··········-·········;....;:....:....:.......:....•- .... .215
Physical . qualifications..,..,Report of Committee 00.,.1::.:.........:,......•:.....:._ .• ;'.,.~ ..222

Masonic Homes ...,..,.....................,.•. --.:...-•····""'-··-···..:··-··--······•··-~·-·····213
Pay.. of lns~ctors •._........ -···-'--·;.:...•.. ~..: ___ _...:.. - ..-.:............, __ ..........213

. Resolution to.. construe.·-····-·········•····.:.-.:_...:,µ..:.; •.:...,_.:••••. _•••• ;_ .•;.•...~.;. •••,•• 151
Pictures of.Past Masters-Purchase of. by Lodge funds ........- ......-.:... _._:.. 18
Powers . of . Lodge Trustees .. _................................,:.....:..!.:;,_:.:••••_:. ••••-.:. •••- ......-;;;:••222
Pre.s entations to retiring ·Masters.................................- ...........:....:.:...:.......... _._.226
Public Schools-Grand Master's . reference to .... ~................. .:.;•...•..- ......;•..- ... 27

!'ay of Members ··-~---··-•·; ...,;.~...- ....:...••..~.--.~·;·········-·-·····.:···-·····218
Per capita ta:M; leviJ~d .. _........... _:__.:···--····-······--······~······-····-·-··········215
Portraits of Grand Mas.t ers .................- ....._w·····-·············-·················216
Reimbursement Pajaro Lodge·-···-·•······--·········'-·-·····--·····-··········218
Salary of Grand Secretai:y...............................- .•............•--..:..•..........211
Salaries of Officers of Grand Lodge._.......... :._.; .. _ ..···-···-·············.218

Report of Committee on.......·-·····-·········-····--:::..... -..::..--·-·-·-........-..;.:. __ .. J.JC
Purchase of building in which liquor is-·~Gld ....c... !.:....'...,..:•• ~.:••••••••;.r.::.:.. ..... _•••-.W.
',

R
Red Cross-Donation · to·-··············"·'············'···'·········'···'-···············:..:........ :....... 26
r.
·
r • • .,
-.
•
19
.Kefreshments-Payment ·for ...................:...;·'··-·············-··········:·······-···'··-'·-···· . _
Refreshment Fund-What may be ·charged against..............;..........:.... :......... 20
Registration of traveling Masons ...... ~ ..:.............. :............;....;:;......_...-.:...•:-.....-2~
Reimbursement Pajaro Lodge....- ...,..... :..........................................·-··-··-·······.211l
Relief ··············--····················-·····-·······.1.1..................................................•...........~
Appropriation for ············-·············...,...........:.,,.... _.. _.. _ •..,....~...,;.._,,...._;...,,2J,f
General su~ject to be .rev~d::. .. ,.,..;•. .r...; •••••:..:. •• --•·····--·;~ •••:, •., ••, .....;..;••:2M
Resolution presented -·····--···········-·······-··-·····----·········-··-··-·:.,.... _.._.151
Relief Fund-Income from, how ,roay be used.·-·-···-·····--············~·-···· 21

'"

Reports of Committ~es:
· On Accounts -·-··--··-··-:··-·' _:,; __ .•
On Activities ...::::::::..:._....::::.::...:___::.:..:..::::::...:.:....._ ......;...-:::.. ~···;.-·····.--.···2~~
On Board of CcintroL.... ~ .... ;~ ....: ...:........,....-.:....:..._.:.:..:...:. .:.~·.:...:~.. -····-·:-·~·-···~19~

~ .;....::~'~--~195

On Building Projects .~:..- ..:..-··-····~·--···--····:············---·--: ...--i4S
On By-Laws -···-·-·--·-·-:---····--··.:.·--·---·-----·195
On Clandestine Masonry ·---~;··--·--··-·-·---····-····-··-··-····190
On Credentials ·-·--·
. .. On .Finance -·--·-----------.-

~-__:.~;_.ia'f

·---------·-: ..:.....;.zn

University Club Hoiises-··-···-········-..-·····--···-;......:..•..-···----····"··212
Unpaid dues ........................................._.......... _ ........._.: ..- ................215
. Unpaid loans ....- ; -.·····-····--·.·.-····-- -··-····-,; __ _,......;........ ~.--.216
On Grievances ····-··~·...•..-·-.. ··-~···-·-·····- ..-------·-···-·····--·---.. 169
On Jurisprudence-Control of Lodge funds ............~............. ..;... - .....;....234
Garn bling ...... _............-·······-·----·--······-········-....:.--'!"·----..235
Lodge trustees _,.•..•.....;.,..........,_......-~ ....••...•.•..••.••. _ .... _~.-·-··:......234
Shorter roll call ,..................,.. --.·····-········· ..-·····-·---··•·..·-··..;-·--····.235
On M:asonic History ,..................................·-········""··•-·-···-·-.;........... - ...:...-.149
On Ne.c rology .... ,........,...-·--········.;_ .....~ •. ~.............. _.•.• ..; •...;.. _.........:......- .... 178
On Pay of Members ...........,.-......................;....:...- .......--··-······'·~...........210
On Policy and General Purposes, annual elections, changes of
date ........,....,....... ,.....,.,....- ....- ..,..•,..•.._._._;•..:.......:•.•- ..- .•- ....:...226; 235
Assessment for Endowment Fund .... _..._ ............._.,_ ..........- .......•..223
Bartenders, eligibility of_...,...,.-...,._:.. ..,..._ ... _ _.,,.,••;.... ___22, 222
Cemetery.Associations ····-··-···-.....:...... --··--···-····-.. --····--··..:-.225
Clandestine Masonry .··,··············-········,·············---·-·····J.;..........-...232
Correspondence report ···········-········-'.~ .......·-····"·--····-•·--····-·····~21
Dimit, form of change~··············-··-·····--·-········-···· ..·-··-····225, 236
Distribution of report on Correspondence...........................:............225
Esoteric w.ork, system of t~aching......- .........................- .............•i ...224
Gambling . ······-····••,...,....,...."''''.,... ,.,.,.."'.......,. ....,,..;...;__ ,. ..,_. _____;.,.•.J, ..221
. f!onorary titles .,.,..,..,...,...,..,,.,,..,..,..,-....,.,....---..-..;.. _,._, ..,....,.~....227

x

INDEX

INDEX
Page
Life membership ..funds., ... .,..................................... :.... :.:.... :::.....:...........230
.. Masonic .. hospital ....••... .,..................................'.:..:....:..:.:•. :~:;.:..:;:...~ •.......... 231
Meeting at Sacramen fo ...................................:.......:....:.....:.:.......::...........224
Meeting place of Lodges, how may be changed .....'. ....:....:............231
Manual for conduct of business ........:.:,.................~.:; _____:;.:::::::.......... .230
Pay of repreaentatives ..•••..• ,... m ••••••••••••••••7.~:,: •••::••• ~••••••••:.:•• : ••••:.:•••••••••• 229
Physical .qualifications ...•.........••...•...... :.:...~:::; ...:.:..:......:...:.... :....:...........222
·· -Pictures of Past Masters ........ :..:.. :..... :...........~ .................:..........:..........227
Powers of .Lodge trustees.................................::: .... :.....:........... :•.......... 222
Presentations to retiring. Masters ..............:...:...........'...:'.::.......:........... .226
.. Purchase of ouilding in which liquor is sold.: ...... :..............:............227
Registration of traveling_ Masons ....... :...:............:.....:.............•...........229
Re lief ........- ................. - ..............,•... ::::;.. ;.'.....:.;;;..::....:....•.•.'........•..............226
Ritual .Committee created .•.:.....: .... :.....:.,.. :.....::......... :......:... :...........•....231
.. Shorter roll call ..........."•······•···"··•::.:•.. :..~.:...:.:..:...........:...........37, 227, 235
Subversive -influences ...:........:....·....... .'......................................:............228
· Tenure of.office of Grand Secretary............• ::...........:........:................229
·· . Time lim.it on .dimits..................................................... :.:...:.: ......:.............229
On Public Schools Week ................·....·.·...................................:.:.:.:.:..................... 138

On. Returns -····-·-·-·····-····-·-···--···-···--···----'~····-··---·······················'···: ... 158
0 n Ritual ·····-···········"-··:.'...... :......•:...•. :...:.•...:... ::.:: .. :.:.... .:...;..............~ ....:......~ ... 137
On.Segregation .................................................................... ;.... ::..:.•... :............. 46
Report of Director.s.. U. C. .L.. A. Club House ................. :.: ............. ::................. 157
Report.of.Endowme.nt. Board .......................,................. ::.........,............. ::............. 113
Report of .Grand Lecturer "·"·"··"'······""···"··'·"·'·•·•··"····: ...... ::.:...............'........ :... 42
'.Report.of Grand.Secretary-Auditors' f'eport ........................ :~ ...:.................... 38
Repor:t of .Q.fficers-Grand· ··Secretary """··•··"··•···•····:.:..:............:.........::.......... 32
Grarid Treasurer· .:.:::.:.•. :..:.'..t:::::-.~...:.:::.:.:...::.'....•.:.•:.::.::~:...:.:::...::.......::..:.•::..• 29
Report 'of· Temple. -Association. "'·"""······'···"···············'··············;.:...: ...................211
Report of Trustees· U. C. Berkeley Club House ....:.... :...:...:.. :.:............:............ 155
Re'presentatives appointed ······"·'····'········'··•:.........,.....'......................:.................. 33
Resolu tions-Masonk eemeteries ···...:"'··'""'·········:...~ ........::..:.. :... :::.. :..'.".'.. 152, 225

xi

Page
That report on Correspondence be resumed ........................................... .151
To amend Sections 78 and. 93 of the Constitution .................................. 153.
To amend Sectio~s 90 and 94........;•........'······-··········:.................................. lSl
To amend Sections 87, 129....•.........:.:::............................ ·--··---~.: ................153
To amend Section 12!L..:..::.: .•..:::••:: ... :.....:..::....:.. :._.........................:.:.•..'....-152
To fix term of Grand Secretary ...... ::....:...::.......~.::.~ .............:.:..........:......'.. 151
To provide assessment' for Endowment Fund.: .....:.. :.....:.....:..................:153
'To provide manual for conduct of Lodge busi'ness ................·:............... :.153
To reduce salary of Grand Secretary...........:....................:....:.. _................ 151
To re-establish office of paid Grand Lecturer......................... :...... .'.........'.. 154
Ritual-Committee on· created ..................•......:..:·......'.....:.....:..:.....:...:......:....~ ...... 138
Grand Master's reference to teaching of........:....:.: .. ~ .......:.....:..:'... :.:....... ~ 26
Report of Committee..- .................................................................................... 137
Resolution to eliminate lectures.. •..~ .........................................................•.... 153
Resolutions for and against present teaching of...;.............:.................... 152
System of teaching ··-···········-·················-···--····--···-·-··-···--·---·······---·224
Ritual Committee-Creation of-···--·--· ..-·-···---·······-·-·--······:............-.....231
Roll Call-Resolution to sharten..........................--····-··-·····--"-·····--··-··--227
Ross, Albert F.-Annual oration by ................................................................-. 48
Ross, Gordon-Installed as Grand Standard Bearer........................................ 2.'l

s
Salaries of Officers of Grand Lodge....................................................................218
Salary of Grand Secretary................. -,.......................................... :.................... 211
Schreider, William A.-Report on Clandestine Masonry .....................•.......... 190
Resolution to amend Constitution .................................. r·········152, 194, 232
Seal Beach Lodge-Unpaid Loan ...............................:..........................................216
Segregation-Report of Committee on ................................................................ 46
Sherman, William A.-Portrait of ordered...................................•... - ............217
Shorter Roll Call ···-······•·····-...... ,.._•.••..•_._,........_.,.............. _ .•~............ZZl
0

Sho:a~~::.t ;f E~ ~:::~::i::·~-~-~~;;:~:-~;:~:;·~ra:~-~~~t~::::~=~:~
Skelton, William W.-Appointed on Cornmittee,...................

. . . . . :. .

.:.r.~:

28

' Masonic hospital· '·""'·"·'···'"··""·'·"·"······'···:.:.. :....... :..... :....'.: ....:.:::.... ?.. 152, 231
1
Pay of Inspectors ·'·'·""'·····"·'·"··"··"·"··':...'.:...................:..........:..'.:.....'.. 154, 213

Somers, Fred L.-Resolutiqn to amend section 129............. ·-·······-··-····-···153

Pay of ·R:epresentativ~fo-'-·'··'"··'···'·'························-'·····L ........... :....:..... 151, 229
Physical qualifications .:... :.::.:.: .... :..:............'.....-.:..... ~ ....:....:;..... ~ ..:..:..:.. 151, 222
·Relative -to teaching r-ituaL. .... :.:...... :..:..:..:.....:..... :.... :......... :.: ....:152; 213, 224

Steinmetz, Joseph A.-Resolutron of..•.·-·····--······-..---··-·····-···--·225
Resolution to forbid Masonic cemeteries................- ................~............ .152
Streit, Philip M.-Received .................................................................................. 8

· Rel a tiv-e ·to ·relief '""······'"""··"·""'""'"'·'·'·"'···"'"''' ...'""'····:...:...:....•..:........... 151
.Subv-ersi·ve ··influenees···:•••••"'"'""·'··''""''''·''·""""··:.:·.:.:._:..:__ ,_:; .........:...........228

Sub~ersive Influences-Resolution to cui.-b...........·-·-·······----··-················228
Sullivan, John L.-Received.....,.,...............,..,.,,:..··--···-·----:.......________ 8

IN1:J:EX:l

xii

INDEX

T

Page

·tr•·,r _n..:1 . :•; ''J " r: >: ·r ·-:,
Temple Assoc1ahort..;;.;.;Report ot-·---·----.:·····---···-·-·····:........-......21 t
Thode, ·Hetinaii:._Corne~sto1ie" l~id b-y~.·---~---··:··· ··:..::.:... ....::..... .'.:.. :.•. ~·~·. : .'. .•..' ... 24
T~~ure of Office of Grand SCcretary;;;.:.~:.~....:.•:.:~ •. :.~.•:·.::.~~----:...:.~:.:.:.~::_::.:..229
,

.

- .. - •

. . ~·~"·· ,,.r ·;•i ::.

_i

f

••

Ti~e · Limit _.on .~i~it_s~:::::~::~:;:::~:::::==:::.:.~:::::'..:::~::~~r·:;~_;,}:~-~~-~;i;;;;~~:~-;};.229
Trago, Mrs. Eli-Greetings from. ..•.:•.._ .•._..,.-r·--·""'l··-···-·······•···r.r-·-·· 8
T·~lal Records···:.:::.:::::.:.::;::::::~:;:_::::::::::.:~.~.:.:~'...::..•:.~::;:~:.: .•.;.~--.'.~~:~~-.-~::;·:.~:'... 35

Tru'stees.:...:.:Power'8'' of :•. ~...•...:.,..• -.,.......,_......_'.'.,..,······-·.·:······;-············: .... ,......,..... _, 16
Trustees·
Lodges-Powers 0£:.;~.,: .,~.~_.;.~._.-r,-~--·.,-·· 18

of

..,..

. . . ;..:,:..;,::··,..,.,..:...,. .

·Power·s ·Of ·.~~~~~--~~~~=.:~,-~;~~:·~~.;..,.-:-··:.,-~..-~···..-····:-·~··-7 ·~~~-~'.-r~-~~····--~

Report of Committee on Jurisprudence on..,..:........:.'....................- •.... ,....~3t

..-.. ..

..:,. :._:··:·-.:·-,······-········-······.-··,-r 8

Tuttle; · Charles K:-iteceiveiL~ ~.:.: ~.::::::

"
U. C. Berkeley Club Hous~Report of Tr.ustees.;.;.-.::....~·-··---···: ..::L.. :.. :; ... 15$
Appropriation . for. ······-·········-···--············--····-····;.~ •. .:..~ ..••..!..'i,;.•11..:::...... .:.:;..2!1
U. C. L. A. Cub House-Report of Directors...:....'.: .......:....;.,.. ~ ..';;;:.~..,!.L.:.,.. 1Sll
Appropriation for -··--···-·-················-···; ..•.. -:......:__.....;::.......::......:;.. )..•'.211
Unpaid Dues . -·······--·-·-···--········----...:..•- •.:.._•.,..:.••.. -~- ....j....:.... ~.:-.-.211
Unpaid Dues by Lodges.~............ ~--.:..•.•....•.;._;,..•:.,.•- ...•..•:.:..•...•.~..;......:.•.....!.-.; 33
Unpaid Loans ··········-····--····························-········..·-··-·····························-·-··2141
Unpaid Loans by Lodges.....•............... ~---················-··············· ..···········••············ 33

v
Veterans' Buttons Issued ......................;..........,:·::····.-:,..,..:·-:'.:··.-·.,..,......•....,....... ,r. 33
Veterans received fo Grand Looge;:~ ..:..:..:.-.... -~...,.,....... ,...:.. ,..:......,...:,.......~.--1 8

w
Warlow, Chester L.~Change of meeting place of Lodge....... ;....:;.,':•..;:., ..;;23S
Resolution to amen.d .Constitution.......................... :..........·.....:::..,,:;..,;...~: .•153
Warren, .. Earl-Visitations by"-~.:..-~.....~.l..~-.... ~...:........~,..-.~ .. ~... ~~. ~~-.~~-'":1:~ 12
. Message of ..........................: ...:..........;.................................................. :..•.......~ 11

. Biography of ...... ·-···•··•··············-············~·······-················..············•····'•···'·'•·'· 3
Western Star Lodge-Consolidation with Clinton Lodge.:...•.....:........'.•...:.. ; 33
Whitsell, Leon 0.-Cornerstone laid by.•:......... :.~...:....;,,,,.,_..:.....~ .......:.•....•~. 24
Widow-Status of After Remarriage.....................:............:..... :•..;.............'-·'"'" 16
Wilder, Joel .Q.-Received ..........:._,....;., ..•.:.._............................... .,.... :...:.........•.., 8
Wilson,. Lloyd E.-Eulogy -by...,..................................:......:..:. .........".l... ,.:.~ .......••~.:.,.~:tSI

xiii

Page
Wollenberg, Chas. M.-Cornerstone laid by.................................................... 24
Wood, Leslie E.-Cornerstones laid by..·--·'-····-~·-··----·---···-············· 24

y
Yorba Linda Lodge-Unpaid Dues--····-·········-·······-··········-···-··-............. _215

z
Zimmerman, Fred B.-Appointed on Committee..........·-·······--········--···· 28

Rollie Webster Miller
Gr.uid Maner 1936-1937

In 1807, just one
'before the seventieth Grand Master came
to California, his ·great
, John Miller, finding· the State of North
Carolina too thickly st-ttl~
that he would seek his fortw.ie in the new
oldier of the Revolutionary war had passed
state of Kentucky. Hi.I
away and with his widowed
ft for his new home. He .5erved through
the war of 1812 and was in
New Orleans.
Brother Rollie Webster
born at Smithland, Kentucky, October
17, 1884. His father Rev. J
Miller, a retired Baptist minister is now
living at Los Augeles, in his
1
D10ther's maiden name waJ Martha
HGQks, a datJ#htH of James
who came to Kentucky from North
Carolina and was
first Knight T
part o Kentucky.
Shortly after ~ing to Los 11
, Brother Miller became connected with the Los Angeles College of
and
became its
Secretary and General Manager. He now is the ol~st special agent in point
of service in Caliiotnia <:onncc.tcd with the cw England Mutual Life Insurance

z.

Comp:wy.
In Februarj, 191 Rollie Webster Milli:r petitioned Sunset Lodg~ No. 3S2,
F. & A. M. for the dqr~s of Masonry, which were conferred upon him the
following month. He was Initiated March 7, 1911; passed, March 14, 1911; and

ROLLIE WEBSTER MILLER
Grand Ma•ler
1936

mllde a Master Mason March 31, 1911. His ability was soon recogn~ by the
members of his Lodge, as it has been in every line of activity in ffhich he has
been engaged. The following year he was elected Treasurer of the Lodge, and
so served until 1915)' when he was elected Junior Warden. He was Master of
Sunset Lodge in 1918, and in' 1923 he was appointed Inspector. Soon after he
r~Colflllze4 the value of the district
meetings, and those held under his
j urisdiettQJ'l were
i1
out as
to be followed by other districts of
State. He was soon koown
the jurisdiction and we find him
elected Junior Grand Warden in October, 1933. At the n~t communication
• Grand Lodge he was' elected Senior Grand Warden; 1935, Deputy Grand
Master; 1936, Grand Master.
Brother Miller is a ttsember of the Los Angeles bodies of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite, Al Malikah Temple of the Shrine, South Gate Cha~er
.R.
M., and is Past President of the Southern California Past Masters'
Association.
Brother Miller was married in 1917 to Miss Catherine Brown, whc
charm and personality have added to the many deep and lasting friendships,
which this couple have gained.
Rollie, as he. known throughout this jurisdjction, has been s11¢cessful in
his every effort. However that success has been won, as succen always is, by
hard work and strict attention to every duty to which he has en assigned. He
has put forth his best efforts and has conscientiously endeayored to maintain
the sanie degree a effidency in every assignment, from. that of a member of
his first committee w that of Grand Master.

Rollie Webster Miller
Grand Master 1936-1937

ROLLIE WEBSTER MILLER
Grand Ma•ler
1956

In 1807, just one hundred years before the seventieth Grand Master came
to California, his ·great grandfather, John Miller, finding the State of North
Carolina too thickly settled, decided that he would seek his fortune in the new
state of Kentucky. His father, a soldier of the Revolutionary war had passed
away and with his widowed mother left for his new home. He served through
the war of 1812 and was in the ·battle of New Orleans.
Brother Rollie Webster Miller was horn at Smithland, Kentucky, October
17, 1884. His father Rev. J. Sam Miller, a retired Baptist minister is now
living at Los Angeles, in his 87th yea·r . His mother's maiden name was Martha
Z. Hooks, a daughter of James R. Hooks, who came to Kentucky from North
Carolina and was the first Knight Templar in the western part of Kentucky.
Shortly after coming to Los Angeles in 1907, Brother Miller became connected with the Los Angeles College of Osteopathy and later became its
Secretary and General Manager. He now is the oldest special agent in point
of service in California connected with the New England Mutual Life Insurance
Company.
In February, 1911, Rollie Webster Miller petitioned Sunset Lodge No. 352,
F. & A. M. for the degrees of Masonry, which were conferred upon him the
following month. He was initiated March 7, 1911; passed, March 14, 1911, and
made a Master Mason March 31, 1911. His ability was soon recognized by the
members of his Lodge, as it has been in every line of activity in fihich he has
been engaged. The following year he was elected Treasurer of the Lodge, and
so served until 1915, when he was elected Junior Warden. He was Master of
Sunset Lodge in 1918, and in 1923 he was appointed Inspector. Soon after he
recognized the value of the district officers meetings, and those held under his
jurisdiction were pointed out as examples to be followed by other districts of
the State. He was soon known throughout the jurisdiction and we find him
elected Junior Grand Warden in October, 1933. At the next communication
of Grand Lodge he was elected Senior Grand Warden; 1935, Deputy Grand
Master; 1936, Grand Master.
Brother Miller is a member of the Los Angeles 'bodies of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite, Al Ma!ikah Temple of the Shrine, South Gate Chapter
R. A. M., and is Past President of the Southern California Past Masters'
Association.
Brother Miller was married in 1917 to Miss Catherine Brown, whose
charm and personality have added to the many deep and lasting friendships,
which this couple have gained.
.
Rollie, as he is known throughout this jurisdiction, has been successful in
his every effort. However that success has been won, as success always is, by
hard work and strict attention to every duty to which he has been assigned. He
has put forth his best efforts and has conscientiously endeavored to maintain
the same degree of efficiency in every assignment, from that of a member of
his first committee to that of Grand Master,

~ranb lLobgt of <teaUfornia
I, JoHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary of the M.'.W.'.Grand LQdge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby certify that
the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of
that body at its eighty-eighth Annual Communication, commenced at the city of
San Francisco on Tuesday, the twelfth day of October, A. L. 5937, and
terminated on Friday the fifteenth day of October, A. L. 5937.

3Jn me~timonp mibereof
I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed the
seal of the Grand Lodge of the
jurisdiction of California, at the
office of the Grand Secretary, this
twenty-second day of October, in
the year of Light, five thousand
nine hundred thirty-seven.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M.·. W .·. GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree anb ~ccepteb Jlla~on~
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Eighty-Eighth Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 12, A. D. 1937, A. L. 5937
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 15, A. D. 1937, A. L. 5937

SAN FRANCISCO
A. F. Heuer, 509 Sansome Street
1937

GRAND LODGE
OF

~rte anb ~ccepteb jlflasons
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Eighty-eighth Annual Communication

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced its eightyeighth Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, Van
Ness Avenue and Oak Street, San Francisco, on Tuesday, October 12, A. L. 5937, at 10 :00 o'clock a. m.
'
The roll call disclosed the presence of t he following;
f

Officers of Grand Lodge

w.·. R OLLIE w. Miu,ER...:..................................~:..:.........................Grand Master
R. ·. w.·. ]AMES T. FRASER......: ..........,........., ...........................D eputy Grand Master
R.". w:. LEON 0. WHITSELL........, ......................... ................. Seniipr Grand Warden
R.". w:. W I LLI AM H. WASTE......., ........, ..........- ................... Junior Grand Warden
v. ·. w.·. JOHN WHICHER ...........,...;....~•••.,•., .................~...................GrQflcl Secretary
V. ·. W. ·.LESLIE E. WOOD ....................................................................Grond Lecturer
w:. WILLIAM B. 0GDEN...............:................................................Grand Orator ·
w.·. FRANK G. HoBBS ......:.................;.....................Assistant Grand Secretary
w.·. IRA D. WHEEI.ER....................................................................Grand Marshal
w:. GEORGE M. CoNEY..:..............................:....:...........Grdnd Standard B earer
w.·.NEWTON D. HIGH ....................... ,..........:........, ..., •. ,...Grand Sword Bearer
w. ·.MALACHI D. NIXON.......................................~.............. Gri:Jtul Bible Bearer
w.·. ERNEST G. BASHOR......................................:........... Senior Grand Deacon
w.·. RALPH A. H1x ..............................~............:.........,..lunior Grand Deacon
w:. AARON GEORGE MARCTJs ..................................., ......Senior Grand Steward
w:. RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN...........:.......... ............Junior Grand Steward
w.·. ]ACK c. BunER...........;......................:.....:....................:...Grand Pursuivant
w.·. CHAS E. ANDERSON...., ....:.........................,,....................... GrGit.d' Organist
w. · .FRANK C. WATSON...- ......,,.................;..,,.•~...........................,Grtm4' Tiler

M . ',

309

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Masters

DEVOTIONAL SERVICE

The fear of the Lord maketh a merry heart, and giveth joy, and gladness, and
a long life.
Whoso feareth the Lord, it shall go well with him at the last, and he shall find
favor in the day of his death.
To fear the Lord is the beginning of wisdom: and it was created with the
faithful in the womb.
She hath built an everlasting foundation with men, and she shall continue with
their seed.
To fear the lord is fulness of wisdom, and filleth men with her fruits.
She filleth all their house with things desirable, and the garners with her
increase.
The fear of the Lord is a crown of wisdom, making peace and perfect health
to flourish; both which are the gifts of God: and it enlargeth their rejoicing that love him.
·
Wisdom raineth down skill and knowledge of understanding, and exalteth them
to honour that hold her fast.
The root of wisdom is to fear the Lord, and· the branches thereof are long life.
The fear of the Lord driveth away sins: and where it is present it turneth
away wrath.
A furious man cannot be justified; for the sway of ·his fury shall be his destruction.
A patient man will bear for a time, and afterward joy shall spring up unto him.
He will hide his words for a time, and the lips of many shall declare his
wisdom.
The parables of knowledge are in the treasures of wisdom: but godliness is
an abomination to a sinner.
If thou desire wisdom, keep the commandments, and the Lord shall give her
unto thee.
For the fear of the Lord is wisdom and instruction: and faith and meekness
are his delight.

Conducted by Reynold E. Blight, Acting Grand Chaplain
Bass Solo--"Bless This House" - - - Oliver Jones
The Scripture reading is taken from the first chapter of Ecclesiasticus:
All wisdom cometh from the Lord, and is with him forever.
vYho can number the sand of the sea, and the drops of rain, and the days of
eternity?
Who can find out the height of heaven, and the breadth of the earth, and the
deep, and wisdom?
.
Wisdom has been created before all things, and the understandmg of prudence
from everlasting.
The word of God most high is the fountain of wisdom; and her ways are
everlasting commandments.
1 0 whom hath the root of wisdom been revealed? and who hath known her
wise counsels?
.
(Under whom hath the knowledge of wisdom been made mamfest? and who
hath understood her great experience?)
There is one wise and greatly to be feared, the Lord sitting upon his throne.
He created her, and saw her, and numbered her, and poured her out upon all
his works.
She is with all flesh, according to his gift, and he hath given her to them that
love him.
The fear of the Lord Is honour, and glory, and gladness, and a crown of
rejoicing.

The Meditation
It is highly appropriate that we open the communication of Grand Lodge
with devotional exercises. That Freemasonry is not a religion but is profoundly
religious is a trite saying, and yet it is significant. When Freemasonry ceases
to be religious it ceases to be Freemasonry. The consistent policy of the United
Grand Lodge of England, that source of Masonic regularity throughout the
world, in refusing recognition to institutions calling themselves Masonic but
which have deleted from the r itual all allusion to the Deity and to spiritual
realities, follow a true, deep instinct. Religion-that is, faith in God and the
authority of moral truth-is the Rock upon which Freemasonry stands secure.
~
Let us therefore, for a brief space, climb the Mount of Meditation. While
we may not hope that our hillside will become a Mount of Transfiguration
we can, at least, pray that it may become a Mount of Vision, that for a time
we may breathe the pure air of the higher altitudes and come back refreshed,
our minds clarified, our hearts purified, by a brief sojourn on the mountain-top.
'The religion of Freemasonry cannot be interpreted in the terms of dogma
and doctrine. Theology, no matter how conventional or orthodox, would be
out of place in this presence. Rather we would express religion as faith, that
unshakable confidence that lies deep in the heart of man, born of profound
intuition, confirmed by experience, the one unique possession of man, that
which differentiates him from the animal creation. Faith is the key that unlocks the riddle of the universe. Faith is the clew that leads us through confusion and defeat to the true significance of life.

308

M.'. w:. ALBERT E. BOYNTON
M.'. w:. DANA R. WELLER
M.". w:. GEORGE L. ]ONES
M.'. w:. JoHN D. MuRPHEY
M.'. w:. WILL H. FISCHER
M.'. w:. BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE
M.'.
w:. CHAS. M. WOLLENBERG
M.'. w:. WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
M.'.
W.'.JoHN STEWART Ross
M.'. w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M.". w:. ROBERT B. GAYLORD
M.'. w:. SAMUEL E. BURKE
M.'. w:. FRANK w. MIXTER
M.'. w:. WILLIAM A. SHERMAN
M.".W.'.]AMES
B. GIST
M..• w ... ARTHUR s. CRITES
M.'. w:. ¥RL WARREN

And 1501 officers and representatives from 567 chartered
Lodges.
The Grand Master filled the vacant places by the following
appointments:
Earl Leroy Cleveland, Grand Treasurer.
Reynold E. Blight, Grand Chaplain.

And Grand Lodge was . opened in Ample Form.

Distinguished Visitors Present
Barnett E. Marks, Grand Master of Arizona.
Merwin H. Brown, Grand Master of Nevada.
David F. de Castro, Representative Grand Lodge of Panama.
Emmett H. Grooms, Past District Senior Grand Warden of the Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts in China.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

310

Columbus found a world, and had no chart
Save one that faith deciphered In the skies ·
Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine
That lights the p athway but one step ahead,
Across a void of mystery and dread.
Bid then the tender light of faith to shine,
' B wbich alone the moral heart Is led
Unto fhe thinking of the thought divine. (Santayana)·

·
ch ore
If Freemasonry fails here, it fails everywhe~e. Freei;iasonry ~1:~ of the
h
code of commonplace ethics set forth m a naive sy~
.
k
t~~fde~s' tools. Carl Claudy, in a sonnet that vibrates with poetic feelmg, as s
Freemasonry the secret of her appeal and power.
What hath thy lore of life to let it live?
What Is the vital spark, hid in thy vow?
d
Thy millions learned, as thy dear pa~hs. they tro ,
The secret of the strength thou hast to grde,;
"l m the way of common men to 6 o .
125)
a (Introduction of Freemasonry by Carl H. Claudy, P·

The first word that falls from the candidate's lips after he enters _the
Lodge room is the most tremendous d~c!a;ation that fheh. can ever mh:\\e~t;:~
·
h
k th m1ght1est word o uman speec ·
·
philosopher ?r ar.tizan, e spea : ~
of that stupendous fact Masonry
1
~~r~~~r:nt~ ~r~~ma~~ ~:~~~d fo~ ~:~~~t~~~e or explanation. To do so would
br like fencing in the sky or setting a boundary to ocean ;-raves.
I'
d
But when Freemasonry speaks of God, even though 1t uses the sub 1me an
·ing phrase "Great Architect of the Universe," it does not all~de to
mou th - fill
.
f
those starry universes
a distant Deity inhabiting eternity ~nd ~s ar ~w~ as
1 b the involved
s0 far ?eyond human. ken that :h~~ic~:~st:c~e :~ a n~17:ci of::ce ~ranscendently
calcul~tl~n~h~! ~~v=~1!~: c:!~elrations in orbit.s of a million years'. nor ev~n
power u ' ic Presence as ~ague as the perfume of a rose, as elusive as t e
~~a~o~{~~at tremble on hill-tops at twilight. N~ ;HFreemasod~ry woul~ eclhooftitehs~
p
b 0f N
th when e summe up mans
~;.je~o~~ri~~i~~t~~ho~~~t ~f God ~~a~~e glowing phrase: "when thou prayest,
say, 'Our Father!'."
Where shall we find God?
·
fi d
· ed ith a fine sense of spiritual reality, who n
G d So:~nt~~e~r b~~~q~~1:Js. T~ey are exquisitely conscious of thfat Indwelling
o. .w
horn the seers . and saints tell us: but alas, for most o us, ou~ ears
Spmt ofd
t hear that celestial voice, our hearts are too heavy to discern
0
: ::t t~~eff~ble Presence. We are too ·completely the children of today.
1

'it

Th world Is too much with us; late and soon,
.
e Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers ,
Little "!'e ·see In Natture that.. ~s s~~~~~ boon t (Wordsworth)
We have given our hear s away,

Here. for _us Masfonr y serves
in humanity, m our e11ow-man,
worship and service.

~0 s~~~d~i:1rfnos;~ 11~~!~~;11:itb:~t~:;h~:.
.

No "one conld tell me where my soul might be,

~ ~~~=~~ ~~ i~~th~~doi?t~~:iufoe:n:f';,'u three. (Ernest Crosby)
· II Mazzini the Italian Emancipator, one-time Grand Master
More mysftlcia ly, d 1 d' . "God incarnates Himself successively in huof Masons o ta y, ec ~r~ ·
,,
maniDty.
interpreter, whose
r. osep
'
·
a comprehensive
writings have been translated into many 1anguage~, ~;les us . a system of

HJumahnit~~:t thN:::~: ~~:o~: ~~~onic

Maso~ic

1::e

and stirring. ~efinition of .Free~aso~:?"G~e ::~\he e::~nnX
in old and
moral! mystbo1cl1sm,f etxhpereb~{l~~ngfa~~ awakening the better angels in the nature
s1mp e sym s o
•

311

of man, and teaching the brotherly life. Its aim is to aid its sons to win a
clearer conception of their duty to God and man, to develop their spiritual
faculties, to refine and exalt their lives in fellowship and service, leaving each
one to add to its profound and simple faith such elaborations and embellishments as may seem to him to be true and beautiful and good, with due respect
for and appreciation of the thought and faith and dream of his Brothers and
Fellows."-(The Religion of Masonry by Joseph Fort Newton, p. 17.)
Whittier, the good Quaker poet, might have been writing a Masonic hymn
when he sang :
0 brother man, fold to thy heart thy brother, .
Where pity dwells, the peace of God Is there;
To worship right1y ·1s to love each other, ·
Each smile a hymn, each kindly deed a prayer.

It is in this spirit that this august assemblage is convened; in this spirit
God grant we pursue our deliberations. In words of holy prayer we invoke
His blessing on this communication. Bright-gleaming over the Master's chair
shines forth the letter "G", which shall splendidly symbolize for us the noble
ideals of our ancient craft: Divinity, justite, kindliness, charity, fraternity,
faith. In Divine fellowship of love and service Freemasonry leads its sons
tu the very footstool of .God. In charity it renders homage to God who is our
Father. This is true religion, through which the sincere and earnest soul is admitted to the Holy of Holies where the light of the mystic Shekinah sheds
its heavenly radiance, the enduring symbol of the presence of Deity.
Again I quote Dr. Newton: "Religions are many, but Religion is one:
to do justly, to love mercy, to walk humbly with God. Toward this great and
simple religion-greater than all sects, yet the basis of each-the world is
now moving. Forms of faith build and unbuild themselves like summer clouds,
but the substance of faith abides. T heologies are but sky-tents where the
soul of man rests for a day or an age in its journey from faith to faith. That
religion which is the fellowsh ip of man with God is to the passing forms of
faith as the sunlight to the clouds, as the sea to the ships that float upon its
bosom. Beyond the clouds is the sky. Below the ships is the sea. The clouds
will turn to rain and -then to mist again, and the ships will pass on out of
sight. But the sky remains, and the sea ebbs and flows, symbols of those deeps
which call to deeps in our fellowship with Him who inhabiteth Eternity. In the
primal sanctuary of the soul, where man is alone with God, faith abides in
uni~y and power."-(The Eternal Christ, by Joseph Fort Newton, p. 79.)

The Invocation
Our Heavhily Father; Great Architect of the Universe:
. Once more 'ii~- ~-eet 'in this accustom'ed place.. ;md . in the ancient adoring
habit of our venerable craft we pause at the beginning. 'o f our deliberations to
ask Thy blessing on our assembling. At this altar of prayer we lift hands of
worship and beseech Thy benediction on our work. We are well aware that
without Thee we cannot please Thee, so we come to Thee as naturally as
flowers turn their faces to the sun, as rivers seek their freedom in the sea,
as little children find comfort in their mother's arms, pleading that Thy Light
shall shine upon us, Thy Love enfold us.
0 Eternal Father, we uphold in the arms of sincere love the guests of
our beloved craft in this jurisdiction. Vouchsafe Thy benediction upon the
aged folks who have sought and found, in the loving protection of our F raternity, sanctuary from the buffetings of an unkind and thoughtless world.
Grant to them a gentle serenity. Fill their lives with peace, and as their paths
dip down into the Valley of the Shadow may they realize the fulfilment of
the promise : at eventide it shall be light. Let there be a "bridge of sunset
into the Eternal Day."

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bless, too, 0 Father-Mother God, the children, who so early in life have
fallen under the shadow of bereavement and have turned to their Father's
Lodge for succor and support. We are happy that we are permitted to dry
the tears of sorrow from baby faces, that we can lift the burdens that would
weigh too crushingly on little shoulders and little hearts, that we may guide the
tottering footsteps until the tiny feet are strong enough to tread life's pathway
alone. Give these little ones, for a time confided to our love and care, health of
body, purity of heart, smiles to brighten the hours, and the glory of the lighted
mind.
Our hearts are very tender, 0 God, as we think of the brethren who have
been called from us since last we met in this place. The vacant places in our
circle of friendship bring a sadness to this hour of meeting; but we rejoice
that Thou didst grant to us the privilege of their companionship, and for all
the happinesses and inspirations of their comradeship, we thank Thee.
We remember with deep affection our brethren of the mystic tie withersoever dispersed around the globe, and bless Thee for that profouud sympathy that
binds us together, men of every race, of every tongue, of every religion, comrades of the divine adventure in search of truth, pilgrims along a dusty highway
travelling towards a Heavenly Jerusalem. We rejoice in the heroic story of
our qrethren of other years who have gone before, men, who through the loug
centuries, have fought valiantly and suffered bravely to redeem mankind from
ignorance, superstition and tyranny. May we, in our time, prove ourselves
worthy of their example. And particularly do we pray for our brethren in
other lands who today are grievously persecuted because of their loyalty to high
ideals of freedom, enlightenment and human progress. Give them courage and a
great hope. Even in the dark hour of their agony may their hearts be illumined
and strengthened with the assurance of ultimate victory, when righteousness
shall triumph over wickedness, liberty over despotism and love over crnelty.
May we now pray for our country. Through the long and troublous years
Thy hand, 0 Lord, hath protected us. We believe we are fulfilling a divine
destiny, that we, under Thy guidance, are working out a noble purpose, and
that through us all nations shall be blessed. In this strangely tangled time,
grant us wisdom. Amid the bafflements and confusions let us not lose sight of
the splendid dream that gleamed in the souls of the Fathers, a vision of a land
where liberty, justice, equality, fraternity, should prevail and peace rest like a
continuing loveliness upon a happy and contented people.
And the peace that we ask for our own land, we ask for the world. 0
Compassionate One, look with mercy upon a race torn with hatreds and conflicts, given up to sordid ambitions and cruel purposes. Confound the machinations of tyrants and taskmasters, who, drunk with arrogance and lustful for
power, would plunge the nations into fratricidal and brutal strife. Defeat their
foul designs and re.move this hideous shadow of threatening war from our
homes and meeting places, and may the spirit of concord and amity animate
the hearts of men. May the time soon come when the consciousness of human
brotherhood shall shine like a glorious radiance in the minds of men, destroying
all suspicions and antagonisms, and wrapping the globe in a realization of
divine familyhood.
Now we turn to the business of the day: we entreat Thee, 0 Great Archi-.
tect of the Universe, grant us guidance that we may legislate wisely. May no
unworthy motive prompt our actions: Let no unkind word pass our lips.
Save us from dissension and controversy, and may the spirit of fraternity and
understanding create and maintain an unruffled harmony in all our gatherings.
May all we do redound to the honor of our beloved craft, to the service of
our fellows, and to the glory of Thy Great Name. Amen
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

313

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
A

We have now assembled to conduct the business of the

an~n~~l r;~~:~~~c~~;k ~~c~~P~~~ ~o~shipfhul

· h

· h

o~ ~C:~f~~ni~
1

MGrand. Lodge
eluded b
.
. s
urmg t e asonic year which 1s conmy grea~ otr present deliberations. It is my constitutional duty as well as
my official Pa~~!u~e, .to present to you. a written message reportin~ in outline
attention to the ::;~g oT~h:tewa;dsh1p as Grand. Master, and directing your
be appropriate for yo
"dpas _year, and makmg such suggestions as may
u r cons1 era ti on.
I am deep!
· ·
f
Grand Lodg ~ apprec~ative o the high honor conferred upon me by this
realizing the\. h e_ntere upon my duties with a humble and contrite heart
challenge the b1!t t::'~~~t~~~~nof ~1 tasks and the responsibility which would
than m self H
. an
eart of an abler and a more capable mar
the dut~es .;,hic~~:v:;• s!le~~1~~at~ all dmy strength of spirit and intellect to
sought by all
pose upon me. Durmg the year I have
t ·
,
means at my command to justify
I am disappointed not to have acco ' 1· h d
your expec ations and, while
·h h .
mp is e more I shall lay down th
I
wit t e mner consciousness that I h
· '
·
.
e gave
and the great cause of Masonry a devo~edve asntdnvenl to give. this Grand Lodge,
Th
h .
'
zea ous service.
~ year as mdeed been a most pleasant" one for me
d I ,
expression of appreciation of the h 1 h
d ,
• an
reiterate my
of all ?f you, and of all my breth::n o;ho:rieh' smcere and capable assistance
out this great jurisdiction. On every h d I ave mh et as. 1. traveled through·
.
an
was t e rec1p1ent of unbounded
hospitalit
d
My prof~u:~ r~;~:1t::dt~~t ~Joy al\ the ~enerosit!es of frat~rnal friendship.
the many favors and kindnesses cahnno rdec1procate m any satisfactory degree
s owere upon me.
.

.

General Condition of the Craft

enco~~~~~s t~~~~t~~w~:fughout th~ ef ~re grand jurisdiction a decisive and
the Lodges. I have f ~ !"~ti more e~ t Y and steadier condition in all of
that the Lodg
.oun ~ ~ or no discord, and have noted with satisfaction
in the fratern~~ ~:~:~~rC::':~: p:osperous, not only in bettered finances, but
has appreciably increased petitio~s c~~r a:~~ Jhe attendance on our meetings
substantial reductions are 'being made in delinq~~:~e~ are ;;!~re num~rous, and
of the Grand Seer t
h
h
ues.
e extensive report
than one-third of ~:7s~st~7:e~ f~ ~~r total. in losses in membership is less

:;;r~~e~~erth~h~~s~h:~v;;:f\~~~~. Y=~~ ~!~i:~~:~~~
~~~~J~:d :~~~e ~~v~~;!
d
asonic

sp1nt and an earnest desire on the part . f

0

~~J~=~~td ~~r h~~:~i:;~titution, the ha~pi~~~s :~n ;~~at;:e0 j tb~o~~:~:::
Special Communications
Since. the last A~mu~l Communication of the Grand Lodge a total of sixteen special commumcations were held, four of which were in the , Hawaiian
Island~, and ~or the purpose of the record I have compiled a list h" h ·
embodied herem:
w 1c is
By Rollie W. Miller, Grand Master:
At Pasadena, on November 10, 1936, to Iay the cornerstone of the Pasadena. Junior College.
Ah t LoR s RAngeles, on December 9, 1936, to install the Grand 'O:taplain
B rot er t. ev. W. Bertrand Stevens,
1
·

GRAN D ' LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

314

315

' PROCEEDINGS OF THE

At Pasadena, on December 16, 1936, to install the Senior Grand Steward,
Brother Aaron George Marcus.
At Kahului, Hawaii, on June 14, 1937, to lay the cornerstone for the
National Guard armory.
.
.
At Fresno, on May 8, 1937, to lay the cornerstone of the Scottish Rite
Temple.
h A d'
At Sierra Madre, on August 28, 1937, to lay the cornerstone of t e rca 1a
Masonic Temple.
By William H. Wa.ste, Junior Grand Warden:
At Hayward, on October 24, 1936, to lay the cornerstone of the Postoffice
building.
By Leslie E . Wood, Grand Lecturer:
At Sacramento, on February 26, 1937, to lay the cornerstone of the Sacramento High School.
At Courtland, on May 8, 1937, to lay the cornerstone of the Clarksburg
Community Church.
At Sacramento, on May 20, 1937, to lay the cornerstone of the McClatchy
High School.
By Earl Warren, Past Grand Master:
At Piedmont, February 16, 1937, to install the Junior Grand Steward,
Brother Richard H. Chamberlain.
By BenJ'amin F. Bledsoe, Past Grand Ma.ster :
At San Bernardino, on June 4, 1937, to lay the cornerstone of the City
Hall.
By Jos. S. Greeney, Inspector:
At Mountain View, on November 28, 1936, to dedicate the Masonic Temple
at that place.
By Wilbert J. Stewart, Inspector:
At Monterey Park, on May 28, 1937, to lay the cornerstone of the Garvey
School in Wilmar.
By Charles A. Shepherd, Inspector:
At Lihue, T . H., in July, 1937, to install the Grand Standard Bearer,
Brother George Malcombe Coney.

By Alexander D. Potts, Inspector:
At Honolulu, T. H., July 31, 1937, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at
that pla.ce.
By Walter Shields:
At Honolulu, T. H., July 10, 1937, to lay the cornerstone of the Masonic
Temple of Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21.
Necrology
your Committee on Necrology will report to you the de~ails of the tra~ic
losses suffered by this Grand Lodge at the hands of the .Grim R~aper durmg
the past Masonic year, and by these death~ we ar~ forcibly reminded ~f the
frail tenure of our lives and that "in the midst of life we are cut down. Our
hearts are saddened because of the many brethren who have ans~ered . the
last call and been taken away from us. In our assembli~s, in our d~hberat10ns
and in our pleasures we shall greatly miss them, as will a~so . th~ir. hosts ~f
friends and brethren in many communities of this grand iunsd.1ct10n. It is
given to all oi us to die, but a peaceful and honorable departure ts the lot of

those who serve their brethren and their craft well and wl).o are faithful to
their trust and obligations. The good that men do survives and is immortal.
It is fitting to mention particularly the passing, during the early part
of the year, of Past Grand Master Thomas Flint, and also of Past Grand
Orator Ira F. Thompson. These brethren served the craft, the State and their
communities for many years, faithfully, capably and with distinction. It is
appropriate that eulogies be pronounced in this Grand Lodge chamber tomorrow
morning.
Masonic History
Your Committee on Masonic History, under the direction of Leon 0.
Whitsell, Seniot Grand Warden, has gathered a large amount of important
data and information which will be of priceless use to the Masonic historian
of the future, and which should be . available to the Masons of this generation.
Obviousl:y, this valuable historical matter should be published, and this Grand
Lodge should give consideration to the ways and means necessary to accomplish this result. I recommend the continuance of the Committee on Masonic
History and a proper appropriation for its use.
Masonic Education
For the past twenty years each incumbent Grand Master has endeavored
to stress the need of our brethren and our Lodges for additional information
and education, particularly on the subject of the spirit, purposes, philanthropy,
history and philosophy of Masonry ; but the best method or means of research
and teaching have always been subjects of a widespread diversity of opinion.
Our reports teem with the comments of Grand Masters and of Grand Lodge
committees, but not yet has a satisfactory means been devised to meet what
every one of us recognizes as a real need.
At the beginning of the year I appointed a Committee on Masonic Education and am pleased to report that this committee has made an exhaustive
and careful study of the matter of Masonic Education. It has examined the
~thods heretofore pursued in this jurisdiction, as well as those followed in
other jurisdictions. As the result of their efforts the committee has arrived
at the conclusion that the Lodge system of Masonic education adopted and used
in several sister jurisdictions is better adapted to our purposes than any other.
I have given consideration to the plan as outlined by your Committee on
Education and I am in full accord with its conclusions and commend to your
most careful consideration its report to be hereafter given to this Grand
Lodge.
Visitations
The grand jurisdiction of California embraces a vast territory. Our
southernmost Lodge in California is almost a thousand miles from our northernmost Lodge, while our Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands are at a distance of
two thousand miles. In the brief span of a single year it is impossible for a
Grand Master to meet with all tqe Lodges, or even to meet with all the districts. I have .gi:ven the larger part of my time during the past year .to the
pleasurable and stimulating task of visiting as many of the districts and
Lodges as possible. These visitations in no instance imposed a hardship, and
never for a moment have I begrudged the necessary time or travel to meet
with my brethren. I shall always treasure pleasant memories of the numerous
happy occasions, on all of which I was uniformly received with the respect due
to my high office, and treated with the utmost friendliness and fraternal courtesy. My heart is filled with gratitude to my brethren who have been more
"than kind to me, and I wish that I could have served them and our honorable
cause far more than my strength and mind would permit. I sincerely wish
that the time had permitted an opportunity to visit all the Lodges in the
jurisdiction. My obligations to my brethren and the Lodges are far too numer-

317

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ous for me to hope to write a word of personal thanks to each, and I embrace
all by saying from this Grand F.ast, "Thank you, each and every one1 and
God bless you all."
Hawaiian Islands
On the occasion of my visit to the Hawaiian Islands I was accompanied
by Judge Frank M. Smith, chairman of the Masonic Homes Endowment
Board, and our reception in the islands was charmingly cordial. The hospitality
of our brethren in this most distant part of our jurisdiction has become proverbial, and the delights of a visit to them has lured many of my predecessors
to make the long journey. Every hour of our stay was gladdened by fraternal
courtesies and an outpouring of friendliness. This visit made a deep and lasting impression on me which will always be a fond and cherished memory.
The progress of the Lodges and the fine Ma,sonic spirit of the membership was
apparent on every side and quickly won my admiration, which I was pleased
to express to them in words of commendation and praise.

Masonic Homes
In my visitations and inspections of our Homes at Decoto and Covina I
have found them to ·be economically managed, with fairness to the residents
therein and also to the craft, and take this opportunity on behalf of the brethren to express appreciation for the loyal and efficient services of the T rust ees
who_are carrying on our most important task, and performing it with great
credit to themselves. I have long had a deep personal interest in all matters
having .to do with these important institutions and I am very grateful and
proud that this Grand Lodge is translating into splendid practice the charitable
tenets of our Institution. The Homes are a visible evidence to every Mason
of the tender solicitude of the craft for the unfortunate and the orphan. I have
no criticism to offer regarding the H omes, or the management. They have
my full commendation. I bespeak your earnest attention to the report which
will be given to you by the Trustees.

316

Grand Lodge of 'Scotland
The Grand Master was invited to be the guest of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland in November and December, 1936, at its bicentenary celebration
of the organization of that Grand Lodge on December 2d, 1736. Not being
able to leave my -duties for the time required to make the visitation, I had
reluctantly to forego the pleasure and privilege of accepting the invitation. I
appointed Past Grand Master William Rhodes Hervey the representative of
this Grand Lodge to attend the celebration, which duty he assumed and discharged with his usual efficiency and to the credit of Grand Lodge. He was
cordially received and hospitably entertained. One of the interesting features
of the occasion was the installation of the present King of England as Grand
Master Mason of Scotland. Later in the session I shall call for a report from
Brother Hervey.
Masonic Club Houses
The maintenance of the Masonic club houses at the University of California (Berkeley) and at the University of California at Los Angeles is one
of our important activities. On many and frequent occasions I have had the
pleasure to receive the hearty and personal endorsement of that work by many
people. This reflects the able supervision of the respective Board of Trustees
and the prominent place taken by the club houses in the student activities of
the universities. Many students avail themselves of the privileges provided
for them and the daily attendance at both club houses is large. From my personal observation I believe that our cooperation and generous support should
be extended to this worthy enterprise. I feel that I express the thought of the
entire craft when I say in this respect that all of us most certainly have a
splendid opportunity to participate in laying such foundation as will ' instill
into the hearts of the younger generation those great principles of Masonry
which will in a measure lighten the burdens of the splendid youth of our nation
who will be called upon to take up· the tasks where we leave off.
Conference of Grand Masters
Your Grand Master attended the annual conference of Grand Masters in
the city of Washington. and participated. in the important work of this conference. I came away with the feeling that the· conference cements close personal
relations among the Grand Masters of many jurisdictions, which redound to
the benefit of their respective Grand Lodges. While there is no thought of a
general Grand Lodge, many matters relative to uniformity, cooperation, charitable activities and inter-jurisdictional relations are profitably discussed. The
exchange of views and recitals of ,failures and successes were interesting and
helpful.

Masonic Homes Endowment Board
The ~asonic Homes Endow~ent Board is cha rged w.ith an important
duty relating to the Homes and is carrying out the work assigned to them with
diligence and intelligence. The activities of the Board have borne good fruit
~nd a wide field of usefulness, stretching through the years, lies before it. This
1s a work in which I will ever be continually active, and I hope that increasing
numbers of our members will dedicate themselves more fully to this unselfish
and noble task. The Board should continue to have the sincere, whole-hearted
~uppo:t ?f the ~dges. As better condit ions generally prevail throughout the
iunsd1ct1on, the improvement should be reflected in more substantial contributions to this most worthy cause.
·
Inspectors
My duties throughout the year have brought me in close contact with all
of the Inspectors and have given me a knowledge of the performance by them
of their important tasks. I have been greatly pleased to find them each and
all a very unselfish and hardworking group of Masons who, at all times during
the year, are serving this Grand Lodge and the craft by the expenditure of
much time and effort. I wish thus publicly to commend them and to express
my appreciat~on, not only for their services to our Institution, but for their
many courtesies to me personally.
Since I made up the roll of Inspectors which is orinted in the annual
roster, it has been my pleasure to make the following appointments of Inspectors :
6th District-William C. Gover
10th District-Dr. Lee William Larison
13th District-David E. Bowrin
14th District-Lucas Schaffer
23d DiStrict-Buel Ish
24th District-Chas. E. Green
28th District-Dr. Eugene M. Graham
55th D istrict- Roy H. Davis
66th District-Raymond T aylor
67th District-Chester M. Inman
71st Dist rict-Gustav Adolph Quick
80th District-Carl F. Peters
86th District-John R. Moore
93d District-Oliver L. Rawson
96A District-Walter D. Piper
· 99th District-Keith Witmer Schlaegel

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Special Committees
At the last communication of Grand Lodge a resolution was adopted directing the Grand Master to appoint a committee to evolve a suitable plan to
put the policy of Grand Lodge relative to subversive activities into effect. I
appointed such a committee consisting of Past Grand Master Benjamin F.
Bledsoe, Past Grand Master George L. Jones and Past Grand Master Randolph V. Whiting.
At the same communication a resolution was adopted for the appointment
of a special committee to investigate the matter of erecting, maintaining and
carrying on twq Masonic hospitals-<>ne in San Francisco and one in Los
Angeles-and the Grand Master was directed to appoint such a committee to
report at this annual communication on the feasibility of establishing such
hospitals or establishing Masonic wards in existing hospitals. Pursuant to
said resolution, I appointed a committee which consists of Past Grand Master
Charles M. Wollenberg, Roy Parkinson and Halcott B. Thomas.
I respectfully ask your thoughtful consideration of the reports of these
committees when the same are brought to your attention during this communication.
Flood Relief
During the devastating floods of last winter I directed the Grand Secretary
to communicate with all the Masonic jurisdictions in the flooded areas, making
inquiry as to their needs for assistance. Returns were received from all of
them to the effect that, while the losses were appalling, no ·Masonic aid was
needed and that the Red Cross Aid would prove sufficient. One jurisdiction,
however, was so sadly stricken that in February I ordered $500 to be sent to
the Masonic Flood Relief Committee at Louisville and a like amount to the
American Red Cross.
Social Security
Since the advent of the Federal Social Security Act, so far as it is applicable to employes' and employers' taxes, also . the excise or unemployment
tax on employers under the Social Security Act, and the further unemployment tax levied by the State of . California, there has been considerable confusion and much doubt has been expressed by Maste.rs and secretaries of our
Lodges regarding liability of the Lodge under the act.
It is my information t.hat the Commissioner of Internal Revenue has
specifically and definitely ruled that M.asonic Lodges are not exempt. In fact,
any Lodge that pays one or more employes comes under the act, and I am
further informed that it has been ruled by the department at Washington,
D. C., that the Grand Lodge and its subordinate Lodges are employers within
'
the meaning of the act.
The brethren of course will realize th~t . it is practically impossible to fully
and completely set out the features of this act in detail here, and the interpretation and rulings thus far given in the many phases already questioned in the
operation of the act, and I merely state th~se general major features which
are applicable; of course having in mind that this matter will no doubt be
taken up in due course for such action as the brethren may deem advisable.
Consolidation of Lodges
During the year El Centro Lodge No. 384 and Oasis Lodge No. 664 presented proceedings for consolidation and, after making an adequate examination
of the matter, it was my opinion that such consolidation was conducive to
the best interest of the two Lodges and to the best interest of Masonry and,
therefore, I gave my approval to such consolidation.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

319

Dispensations
~uring the ye.a r two Lodges applied to me for dispensations to hold special

meetings for degree work at a place other than the meeting place of the
Lod~es. Finding that these applications came clearly within the provisions of
Section 93 of the Constitution I granted a dispensation to Winnedumah Lodge
No. 2~7 to hold a special meeting in Death Valley, and I granted a similar dispensation to Mariposa Lodge No. 22 to hold a special meeting in the Yosemite
Valley. I received favorable reports relative to each of these meetings.
Insurance
. . J?uri?g the year I was asked whether or not a Lodge could procure public
!tab1hty insurance through a group policy issued in favor of a Master and
Wardens' association and I held that a Master and Wardens' association is
not a proper medium through which such insurance could be placed. I believe,
however, that many of the Lodges should have this type of protection and
therefore respectfully submit that the Grand Secretary be authorized to provide
for group insurance ,through a reputable company.
Masonic Publications
The Grand Lodge of California does not publish or distribute any
magazine or periodical, nor is any such magazine or periodical published
in this jurisdiction under the sponsorship of, or as the official or approved
medium of, this Grand I.edge. There are several so-called Masonic publications issued and distributed in California, and during the year many
complaints have been made to the Grand Master relative to some of these
publications. Such complaints are mostly directed at the methods used
to obtain advertising, and for example I will cite a single instance: A
complaint against a San Francisco magazine was made on the ground that
the solicitor of the publication stated that the funds received for advertising were going to help <lefray the expenses of this Grand Lodge. If such
a statement was made it was a false representation. It is common knowledge that some reputable merchants regard so-called Masonic advertising
as a racket.
I believe that I would be remiss in my duty if I did not bring this
rnatter to the attention of Grand Lodge, because misrepresentations and illadvised acts on . the part of publications denominated by their publi$hers
as "Masonic," or by .the solicito.rs of SU\:h publications, bring discredit ·to
Masonry.
· ·
Constitution of the United States
Each and all of us are indeed proud of the active part the era.ft has played
in celebrating the sesquicentennial of the adoption of the Constitution of the
United States, and of course have been vitally interested in the series of programs inaugurated commencing September 17th, 1937. Our history shows
that through the one hundred and fifty years following the adoption of the Constitution, we of the craft have supported and defended that immortal document
and the priceless heritage handed down to us through the generations.
The Constitution, being the very foundation upon which the superstructure
of our American government is erected, is the bulwark which guarantees to
every citizen his individual liberty.
I deem it fitting and proper that this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
California, and all Lodges within the jurisdiction, should take sorrie active
part in the celebration, and with this in view I am directing that during this
session of this Grand Lodge at least one hour be set aside and devoted to the
purpose of commemorating this .historic event. To the end that all Masons be
given an opportunity to join in this national celebration I suggest that, during

320

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the year, the Lodges of the jurisdiction set aside some day or evening for a
similar purpose.
May we forever be guided by the proclamation of our ~orefat?~rs, expressing the ideals of America, and with the traditional American spmt, keep
forever inviolate the immunities and rights and privileges that have through
these generations constituted the :very soul of our nation. As many of us h~ve
so labored and have come to the Shadow of Life, God grant that as we give
our accounting to those who take up the task we will have given over, untarnished, that which we have striven so hard to retain.

321

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY

0

Correction of Error
At the last communication of Grand Lodge an error was committed, due
to the confusion and hurry at the end of a busy session, in the adoption of
the resolution relative to the appointment of a standing committee on clandestine Masonry. This resolution proposed an amendment to Section
of the
Constitution which, by inadvertence and mistake, repealed the prov!Slons of
said Section 27, providing for the appointment of a Master and a Warden on
each of the standing committees. I recommend that one of the first acts of
. the present communication be to amend said Section 27 of the Constitution to
restore thereto the provision that at least one Master and one Warden shall
be appointed on each of the standing committees. Prompt action in this matter
is suggested so that the appointment of Masters and :v'fardens to sery~ on
committees may be made forthwith and that such appointees may part1c1pate
in all the business of the committees during this annual communication.

2?.

Conclusion
I am fully cognizant of the fact that any measure of success during the
term that I am just completing is due to the unselfish devotion and sacrifice
of the brethren, and I express my earnest appreciation of the splendid assistance of the Grand Lecturer, and for the aid that he and his associates have
given me, and I am grateful for the opportunity presented through which I
have benefited by the counsel and advice given by Deputy Grand Master James
T. Fraser, Senior Grand Warden Leon 0. Whitsell, and Junior Grand Warden
William H. Waste.
The invaluable aid and assistance of Grand Secretary John Whicher has
immeasurably lightened the duties of your Grand Master, and it is my earnest
prayer that he be spared to us for many years to come and that he may continue
to serve us as he has so ably and earnestly done for many years.
With all of the pleasures I have experienced in the honors that have come
to me I have been ever mindful of the sanctity of the office which you have
conferred upon me, and again acknowledge my sincere appreciation, and I
trust that those who step into this honored place will, throughout their respective
terms, be extended the wonderful help and cordial cooperation that I have
enjoyed the past year.
Cordially and Fraternally,
ROLLIE W. MILLER,
Grand Master.

Referred to the following Committee on Segregation: Frank
G. Falloon, Lloyd C. Campbell, Charles A. Schwartz.

To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
I have pleasure in presenting herewith my thirtieth annual report :

Membership
Gains and losses for the years 1934, 1936 and 1937:

1934
Membership as of July 31...·-·--···········..·-·····..·-·-·-132,331
Raised ·········-··································································· 1,898
Affiliated from other jurisdictions....-........................
192
11
477
15

1936
127,728
2,663
266
682
3
1568
22

1937
127,301
3,374
318
630
8
584
17

Total gross gain.................................................. 3,247

4,304

4,931

.Withdrawn ,......................................._........................... 1,097
Suspended non-payment dues ...................................... 4,560
Expelled ...........................................................................
24
Died ..........,..............................................................._..... 1,905
Errors in returns ..........................................................
24

1,075
2,691
24
2,091
24

965
2,253
18
2,105
17

Total gross loh..--..........-.......- ...-.--.......... 7,610
Total net lose......................- .........-................. 4,363
Dues remitted ................................................- ... 7,368

5,902
1,598
4,9$7

5,358
427
4,358

Affiliated from California Lodges..............................
Dual members ..............._...............................................
Restored ............................................................................
Errors in returns ..........................................................

654

Twenty years ago we had a membership of 60,384. We now, as shown
above, have a membership of 127,301. In the same period of time there were
33,565 suspensions for non-payment of dues; and only 6,427 restorations. In that
time we lost 29,044 by death.

Registration of Grand Lodge
At the last annual communication the chairman of the Committee on
Clandestine Masonry introduced a resolution (which was adopted ) directing
the Grand Secretary to cause to be registered with the Secretary of State the
full and proper title and designation of our Grand Lodge and its constituent
Lodges, together with its seal and the jewel of the Grand Master as the
insignia of the Grand Lodge: and to register also the square, compass and
the letter G as the insignia of the Lodges, all as provided by chapter 409 of
the statutes of 1933 of California for the registration of names, designations
and insignia of fraternal societies.
The Act provides that "No fraternal society shall be permitted to register
any name or insignia similar to or so nearly resembling another name or
insignia already registered as may be apt to deceive." It further provides
that "Any person who wilfully wears, exhibits or uses for any purpose a
name or insignia registered hereunder, unless he or she shall be entitled to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF0RNIA

322

PROCEEDING& OF THE

323

Permissions to Move Place of Meeting
use, wear or exhibit the same under the constitution, by-laws, or rules of the
fraternal society registering the same, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one
hundred dollars or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed
sixty days."
I complied with the terms of the resolution, and hold the receipt of the
Secretary of State, certifying, under date of November 4, 1936, that the "Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State .of California and its subordinate Lodges" .are duly registered.
Grand Representatives
"At the request of the M.".W.".Raymond E. A. Drolet, Grand Master of
New Mexico, the Grand Master under date of July 15, 1937, issued a commission to W:. Willard L. Prager, Past · Master of Roswell Lodge No. 18, to be
our Representative near the Grand Lodge of New Mexico.
Petition to Change Name of Lodges
Seal Beach Lodge No. 616 has presented a petition to change its name
to R. E. Dolley Lodge.
·
Canby's Cross Lodge No. 679 presents a petition praying that the name
?f the Lodge be changed to Canby Cross.
Annual Elections In November
Pursuant to the provisions of section 135 of the Con.stitution as amended
last year, the following - Lodges have adopted resolutions fixing the stated
meeting in November as the time for holding the annual election of officers:
Truckee Lodge No. 200, effective October, 1937.
Loyalton Lodge No. 359, effective June, 1937.
. Fort Crook Lodge No. 575, effective January, 1938.
Requests for Recognition
The following requests for fraternal recognition have been received and
referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
(}rand Lodge of Rio Grande do Sul, located at Porto Alegre, Brazil.
Grand Lodge of Venezuela, at Caracas.
Grand Lodge La Oriental-Peninsular, at Merida, r>:ucatan.
Grand Lodge Independent Cosmos, Chihuahua, Mexico;
Grand ~odge State of Chiapas, at Tapachula, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Argentine, at Buenos Aires.
Lodges Consolidated
Under date of August ·30, 1937, the Grand Master approved the proceedings leading to the consolidation of El Centro Lodge No. 384 and Oasis Lodge
No. 664, ·under the name and number of El Centro Lodge No. 384.

The Grand Master has granted permission to the following Lodges to
·
move their places of meeting :
Arcadia Lodge No. 574, to meet temporarily at Sierra Madre.
Chula Vista Lodge No. 626, to move to Wiggington building in Chula
Vista.
Glassell Park Lodge No. 605, to move to Avenue· 64 and Garvanza avenue,
Los Angeles.
Blythe Lodge No. 473, to move to adother hall pending the erection of a
Lodge buildiryg at Blythe.
Table Mountain Lodge No. 124, to move from Cherokee to Paradise, Butte
county.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, to move tb the new Masonic hall located at Kinau
·
and Makiki streets, Honolulu.
Honolulu Lodge No. 409, to move to the new Masonic hall, Honolulu.
Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371, to move to the new Masonic
hall, Honolulu.
Fifty-Year Buttons
Following is a list of brethren who have received their veteran buttons
since the last report :

Name
Raised
Adams, William S.:........................June 29, 1887
Bader, Chas. W;,.........:,....::............Jan. 26, 1886
Batchelder, Nathan Prescott........Mar. i4, 1886
Biles, Fred Eugene........ ~..... _ ........Nov. 28, 1885
Blodget, Spencer Langdon............ Sept. 17, 1880
Bodley, Thomas.,............................Attg. 22, 1887
Brow, William Chas. Henry......... Oct. 28, 1884
Bryer, Jesse H .....~...............:....l.,••..In. 1885
Buehrer, William Henry..... _........ Oct. ·22, 1886
Bush, Harry Charles...................... Dec. • 2, 1886
Campbell, James Alexander..........Mar. 8, 1887
Cowell, Arthur King..................:... Jan. 22, 1887
Crittenden, Albert M .......:..............Mar. 26, 1886
Crow, Edward W ......." .:..:..............Feb~
5, 1887
Culver, Gilbert Caleb.....................Sept. 28, 1886
Drennan, Valla K.idd....•.................Aug. 1, 1886
Elling, Wi11i~m...•.............,..............Pec. 18, 1886
Elliott, William.~..........:....: .......:..:.:.Aug. 31, 1887
Erwin, Lewis James........................Feb.
5, lB86
Fir~h, JosephKirk......................:...Aug. 26, 1886
Fogle, Benjamin C.......................... Dec. 23, 1886
Ford, William Eb:a.......................:.Nov. 8, 1886
Fox; James...........:....................:.......Sept.,
1886
Gafford, James A ............................ Aug. 15, 1877
Gibson, Thomas Her~rt ......,........In 1880
Hall, Charlesc....................:.... ;.•....... July 2, 1887
Hardwick, Edward NewcomL..Jan. 28, 1887
Haven,· Charles Edward....:.~..:...... Dec. 10, 1886

Lodge
Petaluma No, 180
Table Mountain No. 124
Mount Moriah No. 44
Eagle Rock No. 422
Huntington Beach No. 380
Friendship No. 210
Covina N~>. 334
San Diego N 6. 35
Olive Branch No. 269
Live Oak No. 61
Table Mountain No. 124
East San Diego No. 561
·Mountain View No. 194
Hills Ferry No. 236
San Joaquin No. 19
Illinoistown No. 51
Chula Vista No. 626
Marin No. 191
Olivet No. 205
California No. 1
Fullerton No. 339
Rising Light No. 397
Forbestown No. 50
Bell No. 483
Honolulu No. 409
Albert Pike No. 484
Live Oak No. 61
Live Oak No. 61

324

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Raised
Henry, Albert Perry...................... Mar. 12, 1887
Hunt, Thomas Edward.................. Nov. 27, 1886
Jensen, Rasmus................................Dec. 11, 1886
Kendall, Frank Irving................._.July 22, 1887
Kimble, Charles..............................July 30, 1887
Knesel, Jacob L ........................•.......Dec.
1, 1886
Knight, Edmond Ewell................_June 29, 1882
Little, William Thomas................. May 23, 1887
Lyeth, Henry Comfort...................Aug. 2, 1886
Mayer, Chris................._................. Dec. 30, 1886
McClintock, John Porter............~.April 1, 1887
McKean, William Giles................. May 7, 1887
McLaren, James..............................July 28, 1886
McLea, Arthur.........._ ................... May 17, 1887
McNamee, William Henry...........June 25, 1883
McRorie, Thomas...........................April 3, 1880
Moore, William Lewis................... May 25, 1887
Parker, J . Tyler...........- ..................July
7, 1887
Price, Stephen Howard................. Dec. 11, 1886
Rankin, Simon George................... Sept. 14, 1886
Rowley, Chas. Archibald Edw......Dec. 23, 1886
Shafer, William Herbert...............May 18, 1887
Sites, William F .......................~ ..... Sept, 25, 1886
Shirley, John } ................_ .,,..._ .....April 26, 1887
Smith, James Ambrose...................Aug. 7, 1886
Soper, John Harrjs.........................June 1, 1887
Spencer, Frank Aaron....................Dec. 29, 1886
Sperling, Fred C.:............................Mar, 4, 1887
Springstead, Fred............................Aug, 17, 1887
Stanton, Edwin M...........................Feb. 26, 1887
Stephens, Edward Lee.............- ....April 27, 1887
Stock, Sol. M..................................~Nov, 8, 1887
Tonningsen, Asmus Frederick..... May 14, 1887
Usher, William Henry................... In 1883
Violett, Charles C.......,....................Sept.,
1886
Wallace, Robert G............................Sept, 22, 1886
Weddle, Joseph Minnie..................Mar, 1, 1879
Williams, Edward T,~ .....................May 9, 1887
Williams, Enoch..............................June 2, 1886
Wixon, Charles Henry...,..............Dec. 30,1886
Woodson, Warren Nicholas..........Mar, 17, 1887

Lodg1
Jordan No. 654
Oakland No. 188
Live Oak No. 61
Live Oak No. 61
Bay View No. 401
Orange Grove No. 293
Fullerton No. 339
King Solomon's No. 260
Golden State No. 358
Corinthian No. 9
Orland No. 265
Charter Rock No. 410
Harbor No. 502
Pacific No. 136
Oroville No. 103
Sincerity No. 132
California No. 1
Carmelita No. 599
Maricopa No. 434
Fellowship No. 480
Eel River No. 147
Selma No. 277
Snow Mountain No. 271
Fullerton No. 339
Park No. 449
Hawaiian No. 21
Mount Moriah No. 44
Reedley No. 304
El Cajon Valley No. 576
Corona No. 324
East Gate No. 290
Paul Revere No. 462
North East No. 266
Mount Moriah No. 44
Garden Grove No. 586
Petaluma No. 180
San Pedro No. 332
Henry Morse Stephens No. 541
Amity No. 370
Sacramento No. 40
Olivet No. 205

Trial Records
No. 872-A member of Coronado Lodge No. 441. Suspended April 6, 1937,
(Retrial)
No. 875-A member of San Pedro Lodge No. 332. Expelled February 4,
1937. (Retrial)
No. 882- A member of Howard Lodge No. 37, Expelled February 2, 1937,
(Retrial)
No. 900--A member of Liberty Lodge No. 299. Expelled October 2, 1936.
No. 901-A member of Oasis Lodge No. 664. Expelled July 1, 1936.
No. 902-A member of Apollo Lodge No. 396. Expelled January 5,' 1937,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1936

325

No. 903-A member of Apollo Lodge No. 396. Expelled January 5, 1937.
No. 904-A member of Apollo Lodge No. 396. Expelled January 5, 1937.
~0· 905-A member of All States Lodge No. 593. Acquitted December 7,

No. 906-A member of Azure Lodge No. 533. Expelled November 6, 1936.
·1

0
936~ • 907-A member of Coronado Lodge No. 441. Suspended September 1,

31

19~7_· ~A member of Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482. Expelled March

No. 909-A member of Greenleaf Lodge No. 670; tried by Rising Light
Lodge No. 397. Acquitted December 1, 1936.
No. 910--A member of Palisades Lodge No. 637•. Expelled April 6, 1937.
No. 911-A member of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled April 6, 1937,
No. 912-A member of El Dorado Lodge No. 26. Acquitted March 11, 1937,
1937.No.
• 913-A member of Pearl Harbor Lodge No• 598. Acquitted May 7I
No. 914-A member of Livingston Lodge No. 658. Acquitted July 7, 1937.
No. 915-A member of Traver Lodge No. 294. Expelled February 2, 1937,

1937~0. 916-A member of Military Service Lodge No. 570. Expelled June 4,
No. 917-A member of La Habra Lodge No. 659. Expelled May 4, 1937,
No. 918---A member of l-a Cumbre Lodge No. 642. Expelled April 5, 1937.
~o. 919-A member of Oxnard Lodge No. 341. Expelled August 18 1937.
(Retrial)
'
No. 920--A member of Fullerton Lodge No. 339. Expelled January 5, 1937.

~o. 921-A member of Solano Lodge No. 229. Expelled August 2, 1937,

(Retrial)

No. 922-A member of Oak Grove Lodge No. 215. Tried by Eucalyptus
Lodge No. 243. Suspended September l, 1937. Appeal by accused.
No. 923-A member of San Joaquin Lodge No. 19. Expelled September
13, 1937.
No. 924-A member of Henry Knox Lodge No. 662. Expelled August, 1937.
No. 659-Petition for restoration. A member of Searchlight Lodge No 567
Expelled April 1, 1930.
·
'
No. 688-Petition for restoration. A member of San Frandsco Lodge No.
360. Expelled July 30, 1937.
No. 758---Retrial-Member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397-Reprimand
·
November 3, 1936.
Life Memberships
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life memberships in the following Lodges:
. South Gate Lodge No. 320, $250.00; Honolulu Lodge No. 409 $150.00·
Fairfax Lodge No. 556, $150.00.
'
'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

326

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master approved the following requests for special dispensations for various purposes :
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
Temple No. 14; Howard No. 37; Volcan.o No. 56; Union N?. 58; ~aval
No. 87; Sincerity No. 132; Drytown No. 174 ; Sierra Valley No. 184.' San S1meo~
.No. 196; (2) .Lompoc No. 262; Hollywood No. 355; San Francisco No. 360,
Wi!lits No. 365; La Mesa No. 407; Charter Rock No. 410; Ham.monton No;
433 ; Maricopa N'o. 434; Maui No. 472; Roosevelt No. 500; Bay City No. 526,
Searchlight No. 567; Hillcrest No. 573; Glassell Park No. 605; San Clemente
No. 671; Laguna Beach No. 672.
To re~baltot on candidates rejected within twelve months:
Southland No. 618.
·. '
T1o receive a:,;.d act upon petition from member of the Army who did not
have the required residential qualification.:
Dunsmuir No. '297; All States No. 593.
Amendments to By-Laws
Increasing fees: Lancaster No. 437, to $60; Wilshire No. 445, to $75;
'Southland No. 618, to $75; Henry Knox No. 662, to $75; Los Cerritos No.
674, tci $105. · ·
Decreasing f ees: King Solomon's· No. 260, to $50; Jewel No. 374, to $.50;
Park No. 449, to $75; Van Nuys No. 450, to $50; Golden West No. 455,. to
$50;. Mt. Davidson No. 481, to $75; East Bay No. 489, to $75; Mount Olive
No. 506, to $75; Park Boulevard No. 568, to $50; Canoga No. 611, to $50;
Fortitude N,o. 624, to $50 ; Florence No. 649, to $50.
Increasing dues·: Alturas No. 248, to $12.
Decreasing dues: Inyo No. 221, to $12; George Washington No. 525, to $15.
.
Fixing affiliation f ees: Southland No. 618, at $5.
. Increasing affiliation fees: Lancaster No. 437,. to $6 ; Fortitude No. 624,
to $5. '
·
Decreasing affiliation fees : Jewel. No. 374, to $25. .
Eliminafing affiliation f ees : Santa Barbara No. 192 ; Maxwell No: ~;
Triangle N ~- 548 ; .Park Boulevard No. 568 ; Angeles Mesa No. 625 ; ( eliminating fee for California Lodges).
Changing time of stated meetings: Galt No. 267; Ashlar No. 306; East
Belt No. 591; B'eacon of the West No. 628; Libera! Arts No. 677.
Providing for change of11Weting place: Artesia No. 377; Belvedere No. 539.
Excepting holidays as stated 't1Wetings nights: Or~nge No. 293; Silver Gate
No. 296; Reedley No. 304; .Standard No. 440; Guardian No. 596; Atwater No.
622 · 'Liberal Arts No. 677.
'Adopting Uniform Code of By-laws: Acacia Looge No. 438.

Unfinished Business
Several resolutions presented last year relative to .the p~an of t~aching th.e
ritual and of the duties of the Grand Lecturer, consideration continued · until
October 1937. (Proc. ~936, p. 224.)
· ·Res~luti~ns to ·amend sections 90, 163 and o.t hers of the C?nstitution rela·
tive to responsibility of Lodges _for relief .. Co!11mittee on Policy and General
Pui:poses to report thereon at. this commll?1~bon. (Proc. 1936, P· 226.)_
T he report of the Committee on Act1V1ties (1936, . p. 233) stated m part

327

that moving pictures of Grand Lodge week activities be taken at each annual
communication, under direction of the committee, and that a duplicate print be
placed in the archives of Grand Lodge. For consideration 1937.
Report of Auditors
To the Finance Committee, Grand Lodge:
· In accordance with your instructions, we have completed an audit of the
books of account of the Grand Lodge, F . & A. M. of California for the fiscal
year ended July 31, 1937. The following statements are submitted herewith:
Exhibit A: Grand Secretary's report of cash receipts and disbursementsgeneral fund.
Exhibit B : Grand Secretary's analysis of cash received for the account
of Maso~ic Homes of California.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's report of cash receipts and disbursementsgeneral fund.
Exhibit D : Grand Treasurer's report of assets on hand July 31, 1937.
The scope of our examination included a verification' of total cash funds
received during the fiscal year ended July 31, 1937 from the annual returns
covering the fiscal year 1935-36. Funds received and on hand held in suspense
based upon the annual returns for 1936-37 were not included in our examination. Total receipts due from Lodges as per individual annual returns were
found to be in proof by total number of membership, classification of source
of revenue, and total "amount of gross revenue received, as evidenced by the
recapitulation record of all Lodges. Total of all receipts were found accounted
for and the cash received therefrom deposited in bank ·accounts. Bank accounts
were reconciled and verified, and sufficient examination of detailed vouc;hers
was made as to satisfy ourselves as to the correctness of the accounting.

The following amounts due Grand Lodge are entered in the books and
covered by notes:
(a) Unpaid dues from annual returns:
Fiscal year 1931•32.'--·····--··---··············.:...:.:...........,........•.$ 239.60
Fiscal year 193Z-33:.: ..~.....•,-······················-···,.····-··········· 222.95
Fiscal year 1933-34·-····:·····•··-········-.:····-·····-········;........•• 649.50

Total...-···································.·-····~····:.•..:..:······-'········'·····$1,112.0S
(b) Unpaid cash loans:
(due from Lodges Nos. 174, 485, 616) ............................ 1,440.00

Total....;.....•.-,,··-······r··~·"'·················:.....:...........:..:........:$2,SS2.0S
All dues for the year 1935-36 have been collected as at the date of this
report.
Market values of securities have been determined and set out .in total,
Exhibit D.
Subject to the foregoing, we · certif}J that, in our opinion, the attached
statements reflect the financial condit ion of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of
California, as at July 31, 1937, and that a proper accounting has been made
of all receipts a.n d disburse!Tients.
·
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL & LAND,
Certified P ublic Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

328

329

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit A
Report of the Grand Secretary
CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31,

1937

General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1936..--··-·--················-····--··-·..
Dues from Lodges-19~..................- ...._..............................$ '624.73
3
Dues from Lodges-prior years.........................-...............
00
Dispensations ·-·······-·-··············-··...........................................
~~·93
Collections from secretaries' and treasurers' bonds.......... 2,0 ·

.

···69-1J:so'-$ 60'303 75

Sales of supplies:
Constitutions ......................_............- ...- ...$ 3,173.55
Monitors ...................................................... 1,599.20
992.90
Lodge dues receipts..........- ......... _............
Blanks ............................................................
526.05
Small diplomas ............................................
394.33
Large diplomas ............................................
132.75
Past Masters' diplomas..............................
419.60
Card cases Lodge lists and Digests........
172.50
Installatio~ services and proceedings......
53.25
Bound volumes and funeral services........
126.85
Masonic Law and Custom and sundries
589.26
Refunds and reimbursements :
Escalon No. 591....-................- .............- .....
Willow No. 77-North Dakota................
Grand Master's Relief ..,.............................
Grand Master's Expense............................
Representatives' Mileage ..........................
Insurance ................,.....................................
Miscellaneous ..............................................

100.00
100.00
59.00
57.00
292.34
6.00
4.88

----

8,180.24

619.22

Total cash received direct by Grand
Secretary ......................................

$ 80,823.62

Cash Received by Grand Treasurer
Bank interest .,.._...................,.,....- •..,......- ....- ..$ 4 ~1~-~
B~n.d interest ........................................................
' l73:5o
6' _ _ $ 11,152.27
D1v1dends ......................................- ...................._.. __

Bonds redeemed or sold (reported in detail
in Grand Treasurer's statement).................................... 36,977.49

48,129.76

Total ~sh to account for ........................,..........,........................... .$189~.13
Cash Disbursed Through Grand Secretary's Office

Grand Secretary's Office Expense:
Salaries paid ........................................................................$1~,~~~·:
Rent (one-half) ..........................................-..................... '423:30
Postage ................................- ................-...........-................
236 29
Telephone and telegraph.............._.......-...........- ..............
386.36
Supplies and sundry expense............................................
·
$ 14,28523
349.36
Office furniture ................................- ....................--···-·····

Other Grand Lodge Expense and Appropriations:
Printing and binding proceedings, etc.....................- ...
Printing and binding supplies for sale................-···-··Sales tax paid on sales of supplies..................................
Postage-shipping supplies ..............................................
Salary-Grand Lecturer ....................._...........................
Expense-Grand Lecturer and Assistants....................
Auditing ......,_............................................................_ .......
Relief-Order of the Grand Master..............................
Reimbursing Masonic Homes for outside relief for
those not eligible for admittance........_ ...................
Expenses-Board of Control.......- ..................................
Expenses-Annual Communication ................................
Expenses-Public Schools week ...........................- .......
Grand Lodge office rent (one-half) ................................
Gold buttons-fifty year veterans..................................
Past Grand Masters' portraits........_,,_............- .....- ......
Present for Grand Master..............- ....-,......,..................
Inspectors' stationery ................- .....................................
Inspectors' aprons ............._...............................................
Premium on Secretaries' and Treasurers' bonds..........
Expenses-Grand Treasurer ........................._ ................
Salaries-Grand Organist and Grand Tiler..................
Donation-American Red Cross and Kentucky Relief
Miscellaneous expense ,,_..........- ....- ................................
Social Security tax ·--·-·-·-··--··--··--·--···.....................
Approprfations:
Pay of members ..............--..-·..-···-···-...- ..............$17,002.50
Boards of Relief and Lodges....................._...............
824.72
Employment bureaus ...................................................... 13,100.00
Traveling expense-Grand Master .............._ ......... 4,000.00
Masonic Club Houses ..........- ....- ....- ............................ 16,000.00
Masonic Endowment Board ..............-........................ 5,000.00
Grand Lodge Activities Committee........_................. 2,122.98
5.90
Sundry reimbursements ....................- ......_..................

4,096.62
6,140.56
244.37
423.30
600.00
1,217.85
150.00
3,607.71
6,600.00
449.94
621.40
508.62
1,950.00
280.00
650.00
300.12
435.50
366.17
1,532.05
681.93
300.00
1,000.00
393.44
58.92

58,056.10

Total disbursements by Grand Secretary................................$104,949.83
Cash Disbursed by Grand Treasurer
Purchase of bonds (As per Grand Treasurer's Report) ....

$ 24,455.00

Total all disbursements ..........,..._ .........- .............._

$129,404.83

Cash balance July 31, 1937:
Funds with Grand Treasurer............................................$59,352.30
Funds with Grand Secretary..............-........................__
500.00 $ 59,852.30
Cash Receipts Since August 1, 1937
1933
1935
1937
Grand Lodge General Fund............................$ 77,515.70 $ 68,046.50 $ 71,832.50
Home Maintenance ....................................-.... 92,028.75
91,863.00
92,207.25
Home Building .................................................. 61,352.50
61,242.00
61,471.50
$25.00 Home fees .............................................. 14,325.00
22,575.00
31,200.00
Total receipts .........._ ..._,.._ ................$245,221.95 $243,726.50 $256,71125

(

330

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

331

Exhibit B

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

Analysis of Cash Receipts--Masonic Homes

CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FISCAL YE~R ENDED JULY 31, 1937

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1937
Per capita tax, 127,728 Master Masons, 1935-1936:

General Fund
Cash balan~e, August 1, 1936.....:.,.-.•..•...;.....:.,.•'....;;..;;._,;...:.....:.....-.,...::.,:_~ 59,803.75
Rece•Pts
~ro~ .Grand Secretary...~.............:...............:..:..$80,823.62
an mterest ··········-···.."······-······························
967.68
~~n~ interest .............:_········-···········:........:....... 4,011.09
iv1 ends ····················-·········•······························ 6,173.50

(Less Masons whose dues were remitted, 4,987.)
For maintenance at 75c......~............. ~•....;-"·•·•·-·:.........~ ...$ 92,055.75
Fo; building at SOc.•.••••••••••- •••••...,..•••- •••..,.••••••..•••••••,••.••.- 61,370.50
Total tax due (ba,sed on 1935-36 annual
returns) :............•-····-·•··~·····················v·•········.$153,426.25
Add cash received for prior years..................................
318.25
$153,744.50

Total collected ··············-········----~-···························
$25.00 initiation tax:
Initiations,
1935-36..............2,862
1935-36........:..... 266
Affiliations,
E. A. and F . C., 1935-36....---······
6
Dual members, 1935-36..............
3
Total ······························-·······'3,137 $ 78,425.00
Less:
First three-quarters collected and
reported in 1936 proceedings........-

51,075.00

Total ····································-···········-····
From bonds redeemed:
$ 4,000 California Oregon Power Co.
50% ...............,,.... _.........~---······..-·$ 4,076.00
1,000 The Philadelphia Electric Co.
40% ······························--········:.. 1,045.00
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric So. 5% 5,000.00
8,000 ~:cific Telephone .& Tele$"raph
. 5%.....................................-..... 8,000.00
5,000 Central Arizona Light &
Power Co. 5%..........................:. 5,248.79
5,000 Los Angeles Gas & · Electric
.Co. 4%.·--········:...1•••-.:-•••••••;;•••:. 5,250.00
8,000 The 'Philadelphia Electric Co.
40% ············································ 8,357.70
Total

Balance, fourth quarter 1935-36
collected during 1936-37............................................ $ 27,350.00
Add:
First three-quarters 1936-37 collected
during 1936-37 ····························-··················-··-····-

65,400.00

Total cash received from fourth quarter 1935-36
and first three-quarters 1936-37............................ $ 92,750.00
Add:
Cash .'received for prior years....................................-

45.00

Total collected ···············································-···················-······· $ 92,795.00
Total cash collected for Masonic Homes and turned
over to the Grand Treasurer...................................... $246,539.50
JoHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.

Re~erred to the Committee on Segregation.

i •.•.

$ 91,975.89

'·············:·····'···l··r•··•·:·~···········••...;.$ 36,977.49

Total Receipts ····································-···············:..........$128,953.38
.
Total Cash to account for ........................................$188,757.13
DisbursetMnts
As yer Grand Secretary's Report, appropriations, etc._:_;:..;.._,:.......;..........._._..,...._.........
$104,949.83
Purchase of bonds :
$20,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
3~% 1961 ....................................$21,500.00
3,000 Railway and Equipment Co.
40 % 1949 ···································· 2,955.00
Total ..................................._...........................$ 24,455.00
T otal Disbursements ..............................

$129,404.83

Cash Balance, July 31, 1937:
Crocker First National Bank ········-··--·"···········M·•···~-$ 9,371.44
The San Francisco Bank ··············································~ 7,108.89
~el~s Fargo Bank and Union Trust Co......,..•...·-···· 3,872.08
an of America ................................................
417.17
Anglo California National Bank...·-···-········:::::::::::::: 38,582.72 $ 59,352.30

.,

332

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit D

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER

Schedule of Assets
JULY 31, 1937
General Fund

Cash in banks ~----·--·-"'"-~•-'•·---·------,~··--·"'-$ 59,352.30
Revolving fund --········-··- ·:..···-·--·-...·--····:._.:.........---··········-··········500.00
Bonds (at cost): (Market value $94,484.50).
$ 9,000 California Gas & Electric Corp., unifying
and refunding mortgage, 5% due 1937............$ 8,550.00
5,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District
#.l % due 1962-63-67 ····-···································· 5,120.57
10,000 New York Telephone Company, 40% due
1939 ···········-·-··········--··-····-····-·-·-··········-·-······· 10,000.00
20,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, first mortgage, 3~ % due 1961...-···-························-·····- 21,500.00
3,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Company, first mortgage, 4o/o due 1964 ······················-······················ 3,000.00
3,000 Railway· Equipment & Realty Company, first
mortgage, 40% due 1949.........·-···················-··· 2,955.00
6,000 So~thern Pacific Railroad Company, first
mortgage, 4% due 1955 ·········-··························· 5,580.00
10,000 Southern Pacific Company, 40% due 1981.... 9,565.00
20,100 U. S. A. Treasury Bond, 4~-3~% due
86,426.82
1943-45 ·········-·······················-··········-·····-········-·· 20,156.25
Stocks:
58,985 Shares Masonic Temple Association, at par....$589,850.00
200 Shares Pacific Gas & Electric Company, first
preferred 50% at cost ·················-··········-········· 5,000.00

594,850.00

Total assets -··-····--········--··-···•········-···············--········$741,129.12
WILLIAM P. FILMER, Grand Treasurer.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

333

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodg_e of California:
Again I am privileged to make a report of my activities as Grand Lecturer during the past year. It has been my pleasure to visit many of the Lodges
on different occasions, where I have been courteously received by the officers
and brethren.
I accepted invitations from twenty-nine of the Lodges to install the officers
and attended many meetings of the Masters and Wardens as well as Officers'
Associations. At these meetings I have stressed the necessity of devoting the
time to a study of the Constitution and the Digest of Decisions. Schools of
Instruction are held by the Inspectors to perfect the officers in the ritual and
the time should not be taken from the Association meetings for that purpose,
when a thorough knowledge of the laws and regulations of Grand Lodge is so
vitally necessary to the proper functioning of the Lodges. An officer's position,
and particularly that of Master, is one of dignity, importance and responsibility,
and a wrong decision on his part might easily destroy the peace and harmony
of the Lod!\'e. Ignorance of the laws of Masonry is inexcusable when a little
application to a study of the subject will prepare a Master to meet most any
difficulty as it arises.

Comer Stone Ceremonies
At the request of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, I convened Grand
Lodge ai: the city of Courtland on May 8 and proceeded to the city of Clarksburg, where, with the able assistance of the officers and ·Past Masters of
Franklin Lodge No. 143, I laid the corner stone of the Clarksburg Community
Church.
On May 20 I again convened Grand ;Lodge in the city of Sacramento for
the purpose of laying the corner stone of the C. K. McClatchy High School.
Both affairs were well attended and I acknowledge with deep appreciation the
splendid manner in which the 'committee on arrangements discharged their
duties.
Assistant Grand Lecturers
The Ritual Committee has held five two-day sessions during the past year
for the purpose of studying the Ritual and discussing such matters · as have
been brought before it.
The Assistant Grand Lecturers have held lodges of instruction throughout
the jurisdiction at regular intervals, and i:he attendance records turned in by
the Inspectors show that this work has been passed along to the officers of
the several Lodges. Greater uniformity in the ritual has been the result.
Reports From Inspectors
It has been gratifying to receive the reports from the Inspectorr,. In no
instance has any difficulty of importance been related to me, but on the contrary, these reP<>rts show a healthy and harmonious condition in the Lodges.
This is due in no small measure to the splendid work of the hspectors, Whose
untiring and unselfish devotion to thefr duties have greatly simplified and
lightened the work of the Assistant Grand Lecturers and myselt Working in
their dual capacity of Assistant Grand Masters and Assistant Grand Lecturers,
the Inspectors have met and solved many problems for the Lodges, which
would otherwise have been placed before the Grand Master or Grand Lecturer,
according to their nature. Too much praise cannot be given this fine body of
men, who year after year carry on much of the :burdens and responsibility of

335

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

this jurisdiction without complaint. I am happy to accord them full recognition
for their important work in this Grand Lodge.

will be Master of the Lodge, is directly responsible for this condition. Under
normal conditions an officer so appointed might well continue in his travel to
the East, :but where an appointive officer shows his inabilt iy t o discharge the
duties of . his office, I can see no reasonable excuse for elevating him to the next
higher station and subsequently electing him Master, just to avoid hurting his
feelings, when the harmony and usefulness of his Lodge are at stake. Some
Lodges go even further and make the position of Chief Coach the starting
point which adds another year to the line. In many cases this custom works
out well, but in just as many instances it fails. To make a hard and fast rule,
as some Lodges have done, that any brother who has spent a year in coaching
candidates is entitled to start through the chairs and in the course of seven
or eight years become its Master, may be doing an injury, not only to the
brother in question but also to the Lodge. A man may be a good teacher and
peculiarly fitted to instruct candidates and be not in the least qualified for t he
important position of Master, and by the same token he may be a complete
failure at the job of coaching, yet possess unusual executive ability which would
equip him for the office of Master to the ultimate good of all concerned. This
matter is not, I realize, one to be legislated by Grand Lodge, but must be handled by each Lodge in its own way. I do, however, offer the following suggestion: that the appointive offices from Junior Steward up to and including Junior
Deacon be considered as provipg grounds, and that the Master when filling
these stations, make it clear to the appointees that they fill their offices at his
pleasure, for one year only, so far as he is concerned. N o Master ~hould presume to speak for his successor and every Master has a perfect right to fill
the appointive offices with new faces if he deems it advisable. In this way,
junior officers who have proven they are well qualified to serve the Lodge may
be appointed by the next Master to a higher station, and those who have
failed to show the required ability could be dropped from the line without the
feelings Qf anyone being hurt. I offer this suggestion with a feeling that, if
adopted, the next few years will witness a great improvement in the government of some of our Lodges.

334

Ritual For Stated Meetings
Numerous requests have been made for a revision of the Ritual for the
conduct of Stated Meetings. The subject has been discussed at the meetings of
the Ritual Committee with the result that the committee feels ·a marked improvement could be made by eliminating some of the needless repetitions and
by simplifying and clarifying the entire procedure. I therefore recommend that
the Ritual for the conduct of Stated Meetings be referred to the Ritual Committee for revision, to be reported on at the communication.
The Apron
So much has been asked about the proper wearing of the apron and so
many requests have 1been made for rulings, that while I do not think it advisable or necessary to make any definite ruling, still ·it is entirely appropriate
that I make mention of the subject in this report.
For many years it has been customary to wear the apron outside the coat
when attending the communications of the Grand Lodge and when on processions. At other times many of the brethren choose to wear it under the coat.
I have learned that in some jurisdictions the apron is worn outside the coat
on all occasions, but so far as I can determine this ruling has never been made
in California. To clarify the situation, let me say that Grand Lodge communications and processions of the Lodges are looked upon as formal in nature
and at such times the apron should be worn outside the coat. No harm is done·
in wearing it beneath the coat at Lodge meetings, if the brethren choose to do
so, and there can be no question but that a brother is properly clothed when it
is thus worn, providing it can be easily seen. This custom has existed for
so long that I am of the opinion Grand Lodge has, by its acceptance, shown
its approval.
Funeral Services
Several Lodges have asked if they could use the old funeral service instead
of the new, giving different reasons for their preference. One Master claimed
authorization from the Inspector of the District. He quoted the Inspector as
saying, "That if the Master liked the old service better than the new, it would
be all right for him to use it." I can only say that the funeral service as now
printed, and distributed through the office of the Grand Secretary, has been
submitted to and approved by this Grand Lodge and that neither the Grand
Lecturer, the Inspectors nor any other person has authority to change it without the consent of Grand Lodge.
Lodge Officers
While I believe that a survey of the officers in the Lodges of this jurisdiction would prove them to be men of integrity and ability, above the average
and well qualified to discharge the duties imposed upon them, I am sorry to
report that many cases have been brought to my attention showing some Masters
to 1be entirely unfitted, both mentally and temperamentally to guide the destinies
of their Lodges. Discord, confusion and inharmony have been the inevitable
result. In all cases trouble could have been avoided if the Masters had consulted the Inspector of the district or had taken the time and pains to refer
to the Book of Constitutions of this Grand Lodge. I do not take issue with the
well established rule of our fraternity, that any member of a Lodge in good
standing is eligible to any office in the Lodge, but I am of the opinion that the
custom has 1been allowed to grow among the Lodges, wherein a brother is
appointed Junior Steward and is permitted to believe that in seven years he

Conclusion
It would be a mark of ingratitude on my part if I were to close this report
without expressing my deep appreciation to the Most W orshipful Grand Master
for his many acts of kindness and cooperation during the ' past year. Working
with him has been a pleasure that I shall not soon forget.
To Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller, the Assistant Grand Lecturers,
the Very W orshipful Grand Secretary, the Inspectors and Lodge officers,
I offer my sincere thanks for their kind and sympathetic assistance, which has
done much to fill the year with pleasant memories•
Respectfully submitted,
LESLIE E.

wOOD,

Grand Lecturer.

The report was referred to the following committee : John
McRea, W . Del Richards, and Alexander D . P otts.
At 12 :1 5 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00
o'clock p. ):Il.

336

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jn ~r anb 1Lobgt
AFTERNOON SESSION
Tuesday, October 12, 1937.
Grand Lodge was called at on at 2 :00 o'clock p. m., the
Grand. Master presiding.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
T.o the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to which has been referred the Grand Master's Message,
begs leave to report as follows :
As time goes on, and economic and social conditions change, our great
Fraternal Brotherhood, must in some respects, endeavor to keep pace with the
mcidern tempo, ever bearing in mind that in other respects, our ancient Landmarks must remain forever intact and unchanged. As the years roll by, the
duties imposed on the Grand Master have become increasingly · onerous.
·F ortunately our Grand Master! have all been equal to the occasion, and
our present Grand Master has carried on, in splendid fashion the work of his
predecessors.
We recommend the portion of the Grand Master's message relating to
Masonic History, the able accomplishments of that Committee, and its needs
for funds to carry on their work, be referred to the Committee on Finance.
We recommend the portion of the Grand Master's message, relating to
Masonic Education be referred to the Committee on Masonic Education the
Committee on General Policy and Purposes and the Committee on Financ~.
We commend the comments of the Grand Master relative to the Masonic
Club Houses at the University of California (Berkeley) and the University
of Ca!ifornia at Los Angeles, and recommend the portion of the Grand Master's
message relating to these eminently worthy activities, be referred to the Committee on Finance.
Our efforts on behalf of the Masonic Homes and the Masonic Homes Endowment Committee are undoubtedly supported by the entire Craft, and in
accordance with the Gr.and Master's suggestions, should lie continued, and we
recommend the portion of the Grand Master's message relating thereto be
r.e fefred to the Committee on Finance, for such appropriation as may be
necessary, to enable them to carry on their work.
With reference to the question of social security and the taxes imposed on
Masonic Bodies, we recommend .the portion of the Grand Master's message
relating thereto be referred to the Committee on General Policy and Purposes,
for the purpose of having that Committee determine what action, if any, be
taken by this Grand Lodge.relative to urging that Fraternal Organizations be
exempted from the operation of the Social Security Act, or such other action
as may be for the best interests of this Grand Lodge.
We recommend the portion of the Grand Master's Message relating to
group insurance for the Lodges be referred to the Committee on General
Policy and Purposes, and be by them, if it deems it advisable, be referred to
the Committee on Jurisprudence, for such legislation as may be necessary.

337

The question of certain publications, sometimes called Masoni~ publ~ca­
tions when as a matter of fact such publications are private enterprises, without ~fficial sanction or approval of Grand Lodge, is a question that has long
been endured by this Grand Lodge without decisive action. Just how to solve
this problem is questionable, and we recommend the portion. of the Gr":nd
Master's Message relating thereto be referred to the Committee on Poltcy
and General Purposes, and be by it, if it deems necessary, referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence for such legislation as may be necessary.
We recommend the portion of the Grand Master's Mess~ge relati~g to
appointment of a Master and Warden on each of the Standmg Comm1tte~s
be referred to the Committee on General Policy and Purposes, to be by it
referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence for such action as may be necessai:y.
To this committee was also referred the report of the Very Worshipful
Grand Secretary, and we recommend the various portions thereof be referred
as follows :
To the Committee on Finance: Unpaid Grand Lodge dues and outstanding
loans.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes: Responsibility of Lodges
for relief;
The taking of moving pictures at each annual communication (to be also
referred to the Committee on Finance) ;
The method of teaching the Ritual and the duties of the Grand Lecturer;
Requests for recognition;
Consolidation of Lodges.
To the Grievance Committee: Trial records.
To the By-Laws Committee: Amendments to By-Laws.
To the Jurisprudence Committee: Life memberships;
.Dispensations issued;
' change of Lodge names.
This committee expresses its sincere appreciation, and the sincere appreciation of the craft in general, for the wholehearted cooperation and servic;e
of our Most Worshipful Rollie W. Miller, Grand Master of Masons tn
California.
This Grand Lodge is indeed fortunate and grateful for having had the
services of our beloved Very Worshipful Grand Secretary, John Whicher,
for nearly thirty-one years.
A prophet may be without honor in his own country, but ?ur. ~r:i:nd
Secretary is honored and praised, not only throughout the grand JUnsd1ch?n
of California, but throughout the world, and we are pleased to commend him
for his unfailing devotion and attention to his trust, and hope we may have
him with us for many years to come.
FRANK
LLOYD

G. FALLOON,

c. CAMPBELL,

CHARLES

Adopted.

A. SCHWARTZ,
Committee.

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ANNUAL ORATION
By WILLIAM B. OGDEN
Grand Orator

Our Heritage
To the M." · W.". Grand Lodge of Califomia:
The office of Grand Orator ought to inspire one to high ideals and lofty
planes. Annually for nearly a century my predecessors have stood on the dais
of Grand Lodge and delivered words of wisdom, hope and inspiration in
tones that stirred their hearers beyond conception. Not all can attain the heights,
not all can paint the lily or tint the sunset sky to a new loveliness-<>ne can
only bring to you such gifts as one possesses; the task is mine, the award is
yours.
It is the duty of the Grand Orator at each Annual Communication to
deliver an address to Grand Lodge upon matters appertaining to the Craft, and
the topic "Our Heritage" has been chosen for the subject of the address today.
Heritage may be defined as something inherited; something handed down
to us by our fathers ; something possessed; or it may be defined as something
cherished not for its intrinsic value but because of whence it came or for some
inherent quality; and it is in the latter sense that ·I propose to discuss it. We
should also bear in mind that we live in America and practice American ·
Masonry. For what then do we, as Americans and as Masons cherish Masonry?
That we might have divergent views as to what constitutes this great heritage
is not difficult to conceive.
Some might cherish Masonry for its antiquity. It is said to have existed
from time immemorial. There are those wh0 refer to the Magi of Egypt as
our Fathers in Masonry; and with some reason, for at a time 3,000 years
before the present era, in a coµntry ·bowed down under idolatry, they worshipped one unseen, omnipotent, omniscient God, admitted their members
by three steps, and taught their precepts by the use of the tools of architects
and builders as symbols. There are others who sincerely :believe, and accordingly
cherish Masopry because its origin and civilization are thought by them to have
been concomitant. Others will tell you of the Ancient Mysteries or the Dionysian Artificers or the Roman Collegia or the Comacine Masters, and each
will sincerely believe that there was the origin of Masonry or the means
whereby it was transmitted to us of today.
But he who cherishes Masonry for its antiquity need not refy upon similarities or myths or legends for the basis of his appreciation. Among the
treasures of the British Museum are sixty-four ancient Masonic manuscripts
the oldest of which is the Regius or Hallowell Manuscript; sometimes called
the former because it was found in the King's Library, and sometimes called
the latter in honor of its discoverer.
This ancient document is written ·by hand on. vellum or parchment and in
a scr.ipt and langu~e as foreign to the eye today as Greek itself, yet, it is
English, and from its form and phraseology those who have made a study of
such things tell us it was written sometime between 1315 and 1390, and by the
document itself we learn that even then Masonry was honored for its antiquity.
Each of you has made the computation and will agree with me that that
was 600 years ago. But can you visualize, can your mind conceive, the time
that has elapsed since the hand of man penned or brushed its pages. Let us
assume the year 1315, then

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

339

It was:·
Two centuries before the Reformation.
Two hundred years before the word "Protestant" took on its present
signification, and Martin Luther was not to see the light of day for 175
years, nor would Columbus petition Queen Isabella for a like period.
One-third of all the land in England belonged to the P ope at Rome, and
The revenue of the Pope from England was greater than that received
by England's King.
Edward II was King of England, and it was but a year after the
Battle of Bannockburn, the greatest defeat ever suffered by English arms.
The Hundred Years' War had not yet started.
Gunpowder had never been used in warfare.
Land transport was by foot and saddle, roads were mere trails and
parties traveled from town to town under protection of armed guards.
Roger Bacon was in prison because he had sought to teach a new
philosophy which he had brought back from his travels in Egypt and India.
Marco Polo had just returned from China and had been excommunicated bec;ause he presumed to teach geometry and the sciences which he
had learned on his travels.
Jacques de Malay, the Grand Master of Knights Templar, had been
shortly before this time, burned at the stake by order of the French King
and at the behest of P ope Clementine.
The Black Death which was to take a toll of more than one-half of
all England, had not yet devastated that fair land.
Chaucer, the first English poet, was not yet born, and Sir John Mandeville, the first English prose writer of note, still lived.
The Magna Carta had been extorted from King John at Runnymede
but a hundred years before, and there were Englishmen still living who
had witnessed the assembling of the first House of Commons.
And the first page to be taken from a printing press would not be
seen by Gutenberg for a century to come.
,
There is the picture I The space of 600 years can be realized only when
measured in progress of events, rather than in time, and by such a picture for
comparison.
It was a land of the high and the low, the rich and the poor, the noble
and the serf, the priest and the illiterate. Yet Masonry lived, and had lived f~r
centuries, for so many centuries, in fact, that even then its past was lost m
tradition and legend, and yet "the attentive ear received the sound from the
instructive tongue and the mysteries of Masonry were safely lodged in the
repository of faithful breasts."
· · Shall we not say, then, that those who cherish Masonry for its antiquity
are somewhat justified in their appreciation? And yet if age alone were all that
Masonry had to offer, would it justify its existence, or our labors in its behalf?
It is at least debatable.
·Then there are others who cherish Masonry for its practice of teaching
by $ymbols. This is probably the most ancient of all methods of instruction
and communication. Macaulay said, "Logicians may reason about abstractions,
•b ut the great mass of men must have images." It is true that the letters we use
in writing and the figures of the accountant are symbols, but they are abstract.
One may be educated, learned, and therefore able to decipher the meaning of
the writer or ascertain the results computed by the accountant, but the uneducated, no matter how intelligent he may be, is unable to gather a single thought
or idea of the' meaning of the writer from the written figure or letter.

340

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Not so, however, with the method of teaching by symbols. Intelligence is all
that method requires, and the degree of intelligence determines only the extent
to which the lesson or philosophical thought may be carried by the recipient.
I may say to you that we stand upon the level. For one ii means simply that
our elevation is equal, but for another it would take hours to express all the
philosophy of life embraced within that symbol. Thus each according to his
capacity participates to the uttermost in the lesson to be taught.
Science teaches that an idea is conveyed seven times more quickly through
the eye than through the ear. A scene once viewed remains indelibly upon the
memory, while a description by word of mouth may quickly fade.
Shall we not say, then, that those who cherish Masonry for its method of
teaching are somewhat justified in their appreciation. Yet there are other
methods and means of teaching, and it may be debated whether they are not
better. Certainly we must seek some other justification for our existence.
Again, there are those of us who cherish Masonry for its teachings. But
every precept of Masonry comes from that Holy Book which is the rule and
guide of our Faith, and no thought is expressed in the teachings of Masonry
which could not be equally well and as appropriately expressed in the chapel,
church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or cathedral of any of the several religious
faiths.
It may be this religious touch to our ceremonies which attracts many of
our members who have no other connection with the Word of God, and if so,
shall we not say that they, too, are somewhat justified in their appreciation of
Masonry 1because of this characteristic? And yet if this alone is to be considered,
I fear it does not justify our existence, for such appreciation could be as well
or better fostered amid the faithful of any religious sect under the direction of
a leadership devoted to the worship of the Great Creator.
Then there are those who cherish Masonry for its accomplishments. I do
not speak of our charities which, although numerous and of considerable magnitude, are 'by Masonic law restricted to our own members and their dependents.
Many, indeed, may question that Masonry has any accomplishment to its credit
aside from these charities, and may greatly deplore the fact that we are not as
an institution in the forefront of great civic movements, or the leader in economic and political propaganda.
By Masonic law, Lodges do not memorialize Congress, nor advocate the
passage of laws, nor the election of men, nor promote a particular religion,
nor prefer one political party above another. Such is not Masonry's method or
means of accomplishing its ends, nor ever has been.
As early as 1723 we find the rule stated in Anderson's reprint of the Old
Constitution, as follows:
"Therefore no private piques or quarrels must be brought within the door
of the Lodge .. . . far less any quarrels about religion, or nations, or state
policy . . . . (for we) are resolved against all politics as what never yet conduced to the welfare of the Lodge, nor ever will." (Art. 6, subd. 2, Anderson's
Old Constitutions, ed. 1723.)
Masonry in America from the earliest days has adhered strictly to this
!aw~this landmark, if you pleas~and no Grand Lodge has departed from
the rule. When, if ever, American Masonry steps out of its character as a society for the promotion of the moral and social virtues, and engages itself in
controversial matters, that day will Masonry enter upon a course fraught with
grave danger.
Perhaps even in this Grand Lodge there have been times when ardent,
faith fut members eager to 'be up and doing have noted with keen regret · that
our Committee on Policy and General Purposes had, conformably to this law,
reported adverseJy on resolutions which to those members seemed admirable in

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

341

every respect, resolutions which other organizations were adopting by acclamation and for which they seemed to receive the approbation of all right-thinking
people. But such is not the way in Masonry, and .because it is not the way it
has been done, there must be a reason, and a good reason, or it would be otherwise.
In civil· life, majorities, when aroused are all powerful and intolerant, and
would if permitted utterly crush all opposition; utterly annihilate all opponents. Such is the course of history; such had been the experience of the
Colonists who migrated to America to escape intolerance. So in government we
have written laws, a constitution, and a Bill of Rights, and courts are set up
as an independent arm of government to administer them for the protection of
the rights of the minority.
On the other hand, Masonry is and always ha·s been tolerant of all sincere
beliefs. By that ancient law the opinion of a majority can never by mere force
of majority resolve be made the opinion of the minority. Force cannot change
a belief, nor law control an opinion. Samuel Gompers wisely said: "One fact
stands out in bold relief in the history of men's attempts for betterment. That
is, that when compulsion is used, only resentment is aroused and the end is
not gained. Only through moral suasion and appeal to men's reason can a movement succeed." Hence Masonry has this ancient law for the protection of the
minority, and the belief or opinion of the minority, however small, is, and ought
to be respected and tolerated so long as it does not violate the moral and philosophical tenets of Masonry. Moreover it is conducive of harmony, and "harmony is the strength and support of all societies, especially of ours."
So, if this has been the rule of conduct on the part of Masonry from a tittle
whereof the memory of man runneth not to the contrary, then that l;ule must
be the safe rule and the rule consistent with its character as a moral and philosophical institution. How then does Masonry accomplish its purposes?
Masonry promises nothing to the novitiate; as an institution it obligates
itself to nothing. The obligations of Masons are mutual and reciprocal, ·b ut
the institution nowhere assumes any obligation for or to its members. Masonry
is not socialistic. It is not communistic. It is not collectivistic. It has no feature
of its teachings · or workings that bears any resemblance to a combination of
efforts, or a community of interest in the results. It is merely a manner or way
of life. It is purely personal and individualistic.
There is not a man in this Grand Lodge who has not stated that he freely
and voluntarily, unbiased by friends and uninfluenced by mercenary motives,
offered himself as a candidate for the degrees of Masonry. He himself arrived
at that conclusion. It was his own personal and individual desire that brought
him to the point of petitioning for the degrees.
It is equally true that he petitioned as an individual ; was investigated as an
individual ; was balloted upon and took the several degrees as an individual.
With ea~h degree he received a charge. In those charges were set forth
certain duties he, himself, persona!ly and individually owed to his Creator, to
his country, to his neighbor, and to himself, and it became his duty and he was
obligated to go forth and exemplify in his everyday life those Masonic virtues
which were epitomized in the charges. And if Masonry is highly esteemed in the
community in which he lives and in the circle of his acquaintances, it is because
he, himself, personally and individually has been obedient to the precepts of
Masonry, and if Masonry is ·11ot esteemed in his community or in the circle of
his acquaintances, it is because he, himself, or some other individual Mason
has fallen short of being a true Mason. I ts honor, its reputation and its usefulness are in the hands of the individual Masons of the community. Thus
through the individual does Masonry accomplish its ends, and to the lives and
works of our members must we look to ascertain the accomplishments of
Masonry.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

From time immemorial the principles of liberty, justice, equality and individual responsibility have been proclaimed in Masonic Lodges and have formed
the basis of Masonic teachings.

Bernard Fay, a non-Mason and Masonic critic of ability, says: "American
Masonry cannot decline the honor and responsibility of having given the
signal for rebe.llion (p. ~40) ... Freemasonry cannot deny the outstanding
role played PY its leaders m the Revolution, or that the Continental Congress
where the delegate.s from the colonies met to prepare a common political program and to organize the defense against England was in majority composed of
Masons. Thes~ Co~gresse~ were imbued with the purest Masonic spirit as
proved by their action which was expressed in the Declaration of Independence." (Freemasonry and Revolution, pp. 240, 241.)
Yet notwithstanding the distinctly Masonic character of the movement and
the preponderance of Masons engaged, careful and long continued research
has not developed a single record of a Masonic Lodge Grand or Subordinate
that can ..be said to !ndicate that Masonry as an organiz~tion had taken any sid~
or P.art 1.n the. conflict; those Masons who participated were courageous enough
to nsk hfe, liberty and fortune without involving the institution or seeking to
have it stand at their back, and every crisis in the affairs of men has and will
demand and bring forth individual Masons df a character able, willing and
c?urageous enough to go forth alone, unaided by the reputation of any institut10n, ~nd make the fight for. Truth and Light and Liberty. That is Masonry's
f~ncbon and reason for bemg and it must ever continue to inspire men to
higher and better and more worthwhile accomplishment.
Nor is it surprising to find that American Masonry in the year 1802, while
m~y were .yet alive .who participated in those stirring events, witnessing the
rapid d~plet.10n of their ranks at the hand of the Grim Reaper, and desiring, as
I ~once1ve 1t, !o perpetuate their work, should adopt into its ritual a new and,
prior to that time, unknown hieroglyphical emblem-the Book of Constitutions
guarded by the Tiler's Sword.
As the Great Creator set a cloud by day and pillar of fire by night to lead
the chosen people in their wanderings in the wilderness so I have reason to
belie_ve, our Masonic forefa~hers gave us this emblem as' a beacon to guide us,
lest m the days to come amid all the phantasies of the theorists in the wilderness of politics, we should turn aside to worship a molten calf. '
This Union of States, this government of law and not of men this Con~tit~tion of 0e United States based upon the Masonic principles 'of liberty,
Justice, equality and individual responsibility, as said by Gladstone, "the
most wonderful work ever struck off, at a given time by the brain and purpose of man" was an accomplishment of Masonry, and whosoever cherishes
Masonry, for its accomplishments can, beyond the perad'v enture of a doubt
look with justification upon this work as the Great Heritage of America~
Masonry.
.
.
~erhaps the editor of the Los Angeles Times had something of this idea
m mmd when he wrote on May 17, 1917, in a long editorial on the 200th anniversary of the founding of the Grand Lodge of England, this paragraph: "One
of the watchwords of Masonry is the watchword of the loyal American people
today. Whe~ the ~faster rises and says 'Together, Brethren', he speaks a
language which thrills every heart in the Lodge. It is the same language which
says to the American people 'Our country, our whole country and nothing but
our country.' "
But sometimes I fear that Pershing was right. Sometimes it seems that
indifference pervades our ranks ; sometimes it seems that the Lodge is at refreshment and that the Tiler's Sword is sheathed and hangs in the locker with
the discarded regalia. Beyond question it was not so in those former times.
Our forefathers were alive to their duties as Masons and their lives and their
actions will live through the ages as examples for "all who go this way.''
Their works and their inspiration will beckon us as a cloud by day and a pillar
of fire by night.

342

The rights of the people, and of the individual, obedience to law and constituted authority, and the obligation upon the individual to subordinate himself and his own pleasure and profit to the good of the community, are all
principles embraced within the tenets of Masonry, and the duty to actively uphold them is clearly placed upon the shoulders of every individual Mason in the
charges delivered at his initiation, passing and raising. Wh~n we are in the
midst of domestic tranquility, when progress and prosperity move forward as
upon lubricated rails, it is easy to forget those principles which safeguard our
rights as Free Men and whi~h Free Masons have been obligated to uphold.
Our Brother, General John Pershing in an address several years ago
remarked that "the greatest danger faced by the American people today is indifference." All those things which in former days were held in high regard:
the church, the community house, the affairs of government, the rights of the
people, and of the individual, are today, to too many of our citizens, more or
less matters of indifference in their 'busy lives. We are prone to give little or
no concern to those things which do not immediately and directly affect our
purse or our person.
There was a time in this country when its citizens were deeply religious,
when they took an active part in the discussion of public affairs, when the
family was a matter of concern on the part of its head, when the thought and
activities of the young were guided with a strong hand; strict observance was
the order of the day, and our forefathers in Masonry were strict observers of
the tenets of Masonry.
When the wrongs committed by a distant and autocratic government could
no longer be borne, Masons as individuals ,became active, memorials were sent
to the King, and all edicts of the King and Acts of Parliament were debated
throughout the colonies; the Committee of Safety appeared; the Sons of
Liberty organized ; the Committee of Correspondence sprang into existence ; the
American colonies were a forum wherein appeared such men as Otis, Dickinson,
Hancock, Warren, Livingston, Patrick Henry, Hamilton.. Madison, Jefferson,
Franklin, with hundreds of other Masonic leaders who in those stirring times
at the risk of their individual lives, liberty and fortune, stood forth and proclaimed those Masonic principles of liberty, justice, equality, and individual
responsibility. I need not recite the deeds of our forefathers in Masonry which
led up to the establishment of an independent government for this country of
ours, for their record is known to all of you. I would but mention one of their
accomplishments-the making and adoption of the Constitution of the United
States and the initiation of a national government thereunder.
It has been said that !'too much of our thinking is an emotional glorification.
of the past rather than a dynamic realization of the present." At the risk of
being indicted for such an offense, I recall to your minds that a majority of
the delegates actively engaged in the work of the convention were Masons ;
that our illustrious Brother George Washington presided, and that Franklin,
Hamilton, Madison, Dickinson, the two Pinckneys, Ellsworth, the two Morrises,
Wilson, Sherman, Mason, Randolph, Rutledge, and Livingston led the debates;
that after its adoption and the election of George Washington as the first
President we find him at his inauguration taking the oath of office on a Bible
brought f~om the Grand Lodge of New York, while Chancellor Livingston, the
then Grand Master of Masons in New York, administered the oath ; nor is it
surprising to find the cabinet of Washington composed of Masons, ·md that
the appointees to the Supreme Court of the United States were likewise
Masons. Need we go further?

343

344

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A great Mason has expressed the thought that I would convey: "To sow,
that others may reap; to work and plant for th~se that are to occup~ the earth
when we are dead; to project our influence far mto the future, and hve beyond
our time· to rule as Kings of Thought over men who are as yet unborn; ~o
bless with the glorious gifts of Truth and Light and Liberty those who wt~!
neither know the name of the giver, nor care in what wiregarded grave his
ashes lie, is the true office of a Mason and the proudest destiny of a man."
(Albert Pike.)
Our forefathers in Masonry sowed that we might reap; they blessed us
with the glorious gifts of Truth and Light and Liberty. Away then wit~ !~­
difference! Let us call from refreshment to labor ! Let us unsheath the Tiler s
Sword and guard this priceless work of A:merican ~aso~ry. lest those. who
come after us proclaim us wastrels and despoilers of this their rightful heritage.

The Grand Secretary was ordered to cause the Oration to
be printed in pamphlet form and a copy sent to all the Lodges
in the jurisdiction, with directions that it be read at the first
meeting after its reception.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

345

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
ANNUAL REPORT OF TRUSTEES
To the M. '.W." .Grand Lodge of California:
We present herewith the annual report of your Board of Trustees who are
charged with the administration of the Masonic Homes. This includes a statement of all receipts and disbursements for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1937,
and a roster of residents of the two Homes as of August 31, 1937. We also
include the amount of funds collected since July 31, to September 30, 1937.
Immediately after the close of Grand Lodge last October, the Board selected
officers for the ensuing year as follows :
President, Charles M. Wollenberg (whose term will expire October,
1938).
Vice-President, James B. Gist (1939).
By the requi'l'ements of section 36 of the Constitution, the Grand Treasurer
is the Treasurer of the Homes, and the Grand Secretary is the Secretary of
the Board of Trustees and of the Homes.
The other members of the Board of Trustees are:
Samuel E. Burke, (term expires 1940).
Chas. Albert Adams, (1937),
James Thomas Fraser, Deputy Grand Master.
Leon 0. Whitsell, Senior Grand Warden.
William H. Waste, Junior Grand Warden.
Meetings
Four general meetings attended ·by all the members of the Board were held
in the year, and weekly meetings were held by committees of the Board at
San Francisco and Los Angeles. By reason of these frequent committee meetings there has never been any delay in passing upon applications for admission.
Admissions ·
Last year, from September 1, 1935, to August 31, 1936, · 61 applications for
admission to the Home for adults were approved. During the same period of
time 23 boys and g irls were admitted to the Home for children.
This year the admissions to the Home for adults numbered 53 and 24 boys
and girls were admitted to the Home for children.
Children Graduates
In June of this year eight boys and nine girls were graduated from the
Covina High School and honorably dismissed from the H ome. One boy was
honorably dismissed to the Lodge from which he came because he had reached
the age of eighteen years. The problem, what to do with and for these dismissed boys and girls, immediately presents itself. It is a matter of vital concern to the children and to the Lodges whose wards they are. We believe that
the Masonic Home of California for i:hildren is the ·best institution of its kind
in the United States. The chief aim of the Trustees, ably and intelligently
carried out by the Superintendent and his staff of house fathers and house
mothers, has .been to give to the little ones consigned to our care a real home
life, as nearly approximating a good natural home as possible. But it must be
obvious to all the Lodges that the Superintendent and the members of the
Board of Trustees cannot undertake the task of finding places of employment
for these iboys and girls after they leave our care. Sad to relate, too often
Lodges lose interest in their wards after they have been admitted to the Home.
For many years it has been the custom of the Secretary of the Homes each
spring to write to all Lodges having children to be graduated in Jµne, advising

347

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the fact that dismissal will follow graduation, and asking that the Lodge
make plans for employment. Too often these appeals are ignored. It sh~uld
not be so. The problem, in our judgment, could largely be solved 'b?' ~e a~pomt­
ment of a member whose duty would be to undertake the human1tar1an Job of
acting as a Big Brother to each .boy and girl who had 1been left to the care of
the Lodge. It would be a responsible task, it is true, hut surely t~ere may be
found a man in every Lodge who would with a whole heart enjoy such an
opportunity to guide a ,boy or a girl not only in the paths of ri!l'hteousness,
but to secure proper and remunerative employment, and thus provide also for
the graduate's material wants and insure a successful future.
Social Service Investigators
It is hard to evaluate the services of our two social service workers. They
perform many functions in addition to that for which they were primarily
engaged, that is the investigation of all the circumstances of those who apply
for admission into our Homes.
In addition to these investigations, they keep in constant contact with all
cases on outside relief helping the individual involved as well as the Lodge in
adjusting circumstanc~s and mode of living of those who obtain said outside
relief to the relief furnished. They investigate, both on behalf of the Trustees
and on behalf of the Lodges, recipients of outside relief or prospective recipients,
as to the securing of old age security in lieu of same, and take charge of the
working out of the necessary papers, to obtain said security.
We know the saving to Masonic funds during the past year that resulted
from transferring eleven cases of individuals on outside relief to the _Old Age
Security relief of the State. This amounted to $3,330.00.
We do not kno·w the amount saved our funds by aid rendered many in
securing Old Age Security as well as State Aid for Needy Children, a service
rendered on behalf of the Lodges, who, through this service, did not apply for
aid to the Homes. Nor can we evaluate the many things that our workers ~o
in .behalf of the Lodges or the dependents of the Lodges that do not appear m
our report.
.
We are still satisfied that the creation of this department has resulted m a
substantial saving to the Masonic fraternity, at the same time working out to
the benefit of those who are in need of our assistance.
Number of Applications Received
During the year your Trustees acted on many application~ for both Decoto
and Covina.
In the cases of the aged consideration was given to the securing of Old Age
Security in lieu of either ~dmission to the Home or outside relief, and in a
number of instances, Old Age Security was received for those already on
relief.
Disposition of cases was as follows:
New applications received by Trustees................................
107
Admitted to Home, Decoto.........·-······-···-········-········-····--··- 53
Admitted to Home, Covina........... _.......................:..-................ 24
Denied, Decoto ....-......................- .................. _........ - ..........-····- 6
Denied without prejudice, Covina..........·-····-······..-·············- 3
Withdrawn, Decoto .......... _..........- ....- ....- ....................-............ 2
Withdrawn, Covina...........................................................:........... _ 1
Action deferred, Decoto..............................:......-....................... 1
Placed on outside relief ............................................................_ 16
Died pending investigation...................-..................................... 1
107

Summer Camp at Balboa
We have had to meet an assessment of some $3,200 for seawall and dredging this year. This expenditure will be made out of entertainment funds contributed by the various Lodges and friends of the Home at Christmas time.
The "Masonic Camp" at Balboa is the summer playground of our children
where, away from the heat of the valley, they enjoy some three months
annually, life on the beach, swimming, boating and fishing, and return to
Covina about the first of September in the best of health.
While we have a considerable investment in this camp, it is all gift money,
and the lots purchased for $100.00 each with the "John Tucker" gift of seventeen years ago, are now quoted at from $800 to $1,000.

346

Transferred from relief to Old Age Security......................
Secured Old Age Security-Service for Lodges......................
Relief to be discontinued pending Old Age Security_..........

11
9
10

Trends in Child Care
This last summer our Superintendent, John M. Downen, of the Covina
Home, attended the Masonic Executives' Conference at Minneapolis, and we
quote from his report:
"One important fact that was brought out at this Conference was that
institutional populations, both children and aged, are dropping in number
throughout the nation. The general tendency is to transfer charity burdens from
private to public shoulders, and public relief generally is not being given through
institutions. The depression brought the necessity for emergency relief on a
scale so large that only the government could take care of it; and now it appears
that government is going on taking care of much that a few years ago would
not have been thought a proper charge on public agencies.
"Those who are engaged in caring for children by the institutional method
must be challenged by the present-day undoubted tendency toward other modes
of care, either relatives' homes or in foster homes.
"In considering this trend with reference to our own institution and its
set-up, there is one factor which I believe differentiates our Home from the
ordinary institution. The child in our care, even though a full orphan, has a
consciousness of "belonging." He early becomes aware of the significance of
the Masonic background of the Home. He feels that he is a member of the
family of Masons in California; he often speaks of 'my Lodge.' This feeling
of security and of being wanted is reinforced by his many contacts with
Masonic visitors, whom he often meets personally. In some cases, like the
privately reared child, he even becomes 'spoiled.'
"I am convinced that in all this there is a something which differentiates
our Home from children's institutions generally. This difference is due not
alone to our special way of handling the children, but even more to the Masonic
foundation upon which it rests, and which endows it with a quality that I have
not seen in any institution otherwise founded.
"In spite of all this, when we observe the unmistakable trend away from
the institution, we cannot but be put on notice. It behooves us to 1be aware of
what is going on. It seems not unlikely that we are entering an era that will
witness sweeping changes in social and charitable practices. We should not be
the last to perceive these coming- changes, but rather among the first."
Earning System for Children
Some years ago we realized that the savings accounts did not answer the
need of boys and girls, especially during adolescence, to have a practical experience. with money. A savings account does not move; if it does it is not a
savings account. It is not sufficient to tell a fifteen year old child: "Save all
your money, and it will be useful to you after you leave the Home." The

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

child cannot learn about money unless it is coming into and going out of his
hands. Four things he should learn about it: earning, spending, savings, giving.
He can learn these only by practice.
At the age of approximately thirteen the child moves into a Senior building and :becomes a member of a Senior group. He then 1becomes eligible to be
paid for work he does in the various departments of the Home, and at the
same time is required to begin to pay for his clothing, school supplies, toilet
articles, recreations and luxuries. In fact he must pay for almost everything
_except food, shelter and medical care. If he breaks or damages property, he
is charged for it.
Paid jobs include farm work, caring for chickens, orchard work, care of
grounds, janitor work, painting, repair work, kitchen and dining room work,
office work. The pay is scaled according to the age of the worker and the
quality of the work, and is so arranged that with reasonable industry and
utilization of work-opportunities the ·boy or girl can "make ends meet." If he
is above average as a worker he will have money to spend on luxuries, such as
a radio or a bicycle, or can make deposits in his savings account, which is quite
often done. On July 31 ,t he boys had an average credit balance of $19.03; the
gjrls' average was $3.89. Two boys were in debt, as· compared with eleven
girls. The poorer financial condition of the girls is due to two factors, the
higher cost of their clothing and their weaker ambition for financial inde-

Those discharged during the present summer have withdrawn savings
accounts as follows :

348

pendence~

We think there is no doubt of the practical training value of this financial
system. The cost of maintaining and operating it is considerable, due to the
clerica,l work involved, and the fact that extra industrious boys and girls will
earn a surplus to spend in luxuries or place in their savings. Any system of this
kind is bound to have imperfections, just as do all fiscal systems of grown
people. On the whole, however, we believe it is of great benefit, and is worth
more than it costs.
·
·
Savings System
Forty-five children or about one-third of our whole number, at present
have individual savings accounts in the Bank of America at Covina. One of
these is that of a girl who was discharged from our care in 1930, but who has
chosen to carry her account here since that date, the present balance in her
account being $363.01. The average 1bala:nce in the forty-five accounts is
$36.92. Checks on these accounts must be signed jointly by the child depositor
.and the Superintendent of the Home.
These accounts have various origins, the most common one being the savings of a small child brought to the Home when the child enters. Sums of
money given to children by their Lodges or by relatives and which are not
needed for any immediate purpose, are often diverted into the savings accounts;
in fact, accounts are often started in that way. Accruals to accounts come
through gifts made for the purpose; and after the children are old enough
to be earning money, by deposits which they voluntarily make from money
which they earn in excess of their immediate needs.
It is the general understanding that withdrawals from the savings accounts
w:ill not be made. until after the child leaves the Home, the purpose of them
being to provide for the needs of the child during his adjustment period after
discharge. Rarely a withdrawal is permitted for some special reason while the
child is still in the Home; but in most cases the savings are held intact until
·discharge.· At that time usually the account is closed, and the credit balance is
remitted to the <boy or girl, or to the parent or guardian, according to circumstances.

349

Lord, Raymond ········'···········.,.····~"·-...,,.•--··-······•···---·····~-··•·'•~~~••..$ 15.48
Richardson, Joseph ································································-············- 10.26
Riddell, Edwin ............:............................................................................._ 36.39
Taylor, Floyd ············-·············································································· 116.58
C~rroll, Charles •..;.;•-····-···-~·-···~--:--•-·~················i··-······~-~:···-····- .25.20
Richter, Marlene ······························································-······················ 10.00
Reynolds, Juliette .................................................................................... 25.00
Miller, Anna May ····-··················-······································-·················· 47.22
Elliott, Willard ......................................................................................... 15.15
Kahl, Pati .................................................................................................• 30.44

$331.72
Old Age Security
We now come to our immediate concern, the influence of the California Old
Age Security Act on the Decoto Home. The Legislature passed and the Governor signed Assembly Bill No. 1, which gives persons residing in homes for
the aged pensions up to $35.00 monthly under certain conditions. Of our present
population of 352, probably 200 can qualify for these pensions. A number of
our residents at Decoto have already contacted the State Department of Social
Welfare and the Department in turn has discussed with your Trustees the
granting of pensions to certain residents of the Home.
We call to attention of Grand Lodge at this time the fact that acceptance of
payments from guests on the large scale which would be involved will constitute a new 'practice in the conduct of the Home. Heretofore we have had
in force a ruling requiring children of residents to pay toward their maintenance
if those children were able; however but few payments from this source have
been received.
In the present instance, however, the payments would be made by the
majority of those in our care, and it is estimated that such payments would reduce the annual net operating cost of the Decato Home by some $60,000.00. We
are taxpayers and our Home comes under the law. Our people are entitled to the
same treatment from the State as those in other institutions.
If we do not accept this aid, we have but two alternatives: to turn these
people out of our Home and bid them seek aid from the State; or continue to
operate as at present, letting the members of the craft absorb the expense which
the State stands ready to pay.
We believe the Decoto Home, regardless of where the money comes from
to pay its expenses, is rendering a priceless service to its residents. It gives
them a haven of security, a congenial atmosphere with the company of others
of their own age and outlook on life. While there are those who will prefer
to remain outside the Home if they can receive $35.00 a month from the State,
there are many others to whom the privilege of ending their days within its
gates will mean safety, freedom from worry, the enjoyment of congenial companionship, and assurance that when sickness comes they will have the best of
medical care and nursing.
Thirty-five dollars a month at best will provide but indifferent food and poor
housing and will give no opportunity to lay up a reserve for medicine or to meet
other expenses of illness. If the recipient of old age pension should elect to remain in the Home, paying such charg~s as we ip.ay designate, he not only gets
substantial diet, good housing, but has his medical needs and hospitalization provided for ; besides many other advantages.
We, therefore, recommend that the Trustees be instructed to permit recipients of Old Age pensions to remain in the Masonic Home.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Our Generous Grand Tiler
Frank G. Watson, our veteran Grand Tiler, ii} addition to his yearly cash
donations to the Home for Children, has presented to the Covina Home two
fine watches, which are to be awarded at the April or May meeting of the
Board to the boy and girl who during the year shall have evinced the greatest
degree of good citizenship and public spirit in the Masonic Home community.

which clearly showed that the Lodge was solely responsible for the care of
the applicant. This brother received his Masonic degrees in Colorado in 1881,
he then being thirty years of age. He affiliated with the California Lodge in
1930, at the age of seventy 7nine, and had had no means of support for seven
years prior to his election as an affiliate. He is now eighty-five years old. The
Lodge of course was within its rights in electing this old gentleman, but obviously it should not expect the Masonic Homes to share the expense for his
care and maintenance. The Board of Trustees by unanimous vote denied the
application.
Another applicant was denied admission for several cogent reasons: He
was in receipt of government pension for disabilities incurred in the World
War; he had not been employed since 1931; he was elected as an affiliate in
the Lodge October 1, 1931; he was at that time and continuously since then
addicted to the habit of using spirituous liquors to excess. Also at the time
of his affiliation he was afflicted with heart trouble. He was eligible for ·admission to Veterans' Home at Yountville, but did not want to apply for admission to that institution for the reason that if admitted there his government
pension would be reduced to six dollars a month, whereas if admitted to the
Masonic Home the pension of thirty dollars a month could not be assigned.
The Trustees took the view that this brother was a proper burden for the
Lodge to assume and not chargeable to the entire fraternity by admission to
the Home, and also denied the application.

350

Other Gifts
The Homes acknowledge a long list of gifts during the past year which will
be found recorded in detail in this report.
·
Many thanks to those generous brethren and Masonic groups who keep in
mind the comfort of our family and express their feelings in such a practical
way.
Special mention should be made of the gift of Brother Charles N. Flint,
a member of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, who already had given us $90,000.00
and a deed to his home in Beverly Hills. His gift this year was in the sum of
$72,651.23. This gift, however, was on the condition that we pay an annuity
of $1,000.00 yearly to aged relatives of Brother Flint, or to the survivor of
them.
We also received a generous gift of $25,000.00 from Brother George H.
Wadleigh, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, and his wife Harriett; likewise subject
to the payment of an annuity of $1,625.00 yearly.
We know the members of Grand Lodge join us in thanking Brothers Flint
and Wadleigh, and trust they and their good wives will live long to enjoy the
knowledge of the happiness they are bringing to others.
Amended Articles of Incorporation
To enable us to comply with the conditions of these gifts it became necessary to amend our articles of incorporation to obtain authority to receive transfers of property conditioned upon an agreement to pay an annuity to the
transferor or his nominee.
Legacies Received
Estate of John and Pauline Tonningsen ......1•• ~.- ..................;....... , ...... , •••.$ 3,445.46
Jesse Carr Seale ........................................................................................ 2,136.67
Nora Lee Hickey ........................................................................................ 2,999.70
August Schleicher ...................................................................................... 3,000.00
Jacob Farbstein ..........................................................................................
100.00
Chas. H. McNally ......................................................................................
300.00
M. Raabe ...................................................................................................... 5,000.00
John F. Carlson .......,........ ~.............. .................................... ............... . ......
100.00
D. J. Walton ..............................................................................................
200.00
Elizabeth I. Shellhart ..............................................................................
500.00
Horace A. Crocker .................................................................................... 21,000.o<i
John and Lena Luckenbach .................................................................... 25,800.00
The Homes were also remembered by Ernest Beuter in .the amount of
$1000.00, and Fr'ank G. Watson donated $150.~ to the Scholarship Fund.
Responsibilities of Lodges
In other years we have had occasion to call attention to the responsibility
of Lodges for the care of their distressed members who are not in fact fairly
a charge upon the whole fraternity. Last May a petition for admission to our
Home for adults was received from one of the Lodges of this jurisdiction,

351

Rules for Admission
From the beginning of the Homes it has been the rule to allow each Lodge
two residents at the Home for adults without charge, and one additional resident
for each three hundred members or fraction thereof in excess of three hundred.
For each resident in excess of the quota allowed, a charge is made in an amount
fixed from time to time by the Board of Trustees. No charge has heretofore
.been levied against Lodges for account of members who received cash relief
outside the Home.
Believing that this rule was inequita·ble, the Board in April of this year,
amended the last sentence of the last paragraph of the rules governing admission to the Home for adults, as it appears at page 440 of the Proceedings
for 1935, to read as follows :
"For each additional applicant (in excess of the quota) admitted to the
Home, or to whom outside aid is given, a charge will be made in an amount
to be fixed from time to time by the Board of Trustees."
Repairs and Replacements
On account of economic conditions, all repairs and replacements which
could .be postponed without detriment to our buildings have for several years
past been delayed. This year certain repairs were imperative. At Covina the
steam and hot water systems have been completely overhauled at a cost of
approxiqiately $4,000.00. We face the replacement of a mangle in our laundry
in the near future, as well as a further development of a satisfactory water
supply.
.
Replacement of carpets and other furniture at both Covina and Decoto
have caused considerable outlay.
We look forward to increased costs for this year due to the upward trend
of all commodities, and in this connection present the following tables showing
the increased cost in various departments of both Homes, as compared with the
average of two previous years:

352

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Covina Home Expense
(Figures represent dollars;
Av. of two
cents omitted.)
previous years 1936-37
Kitchen and dining room :
Foods ..,.-..;.............................................$24,389
$28,144
Salaries .................................................. 4,938
5,049
Clothing:
2,133
Ready made ····-······································ 1,682
Repairs and cleaning.............-.............
992
705
Drygoods and notions..........................
499
142
Laundry:
1,903
Salaries ······--················-······················ 1,596
Supplies .............-...................................
483
681
Repairs and renewals............................
38
283
Dormitories :
Salaries .....................-............................. 9,447
9,322
Supplies and equipment........................ 1,153
3,171
Hospital:
· Doctor and dentist fees........................ 2,413
2,651
Salaries .................................................. 2, 118
2,500
Medical supplies and drugs.................. 1,376
1,618
Covina Hospital, X-rays, laboratory
1,523
fees, glasses ···············-················· 1,494
Other supplies and equipment............
361
615
General care of children :
Toilet accessories ................................
243
135
702
Miscellaneous ···························-··········· 1,071
Domestic Science Cottage....................
520
650
Auto. expense ........................................
756
595
Power Plant :
2,225
Salaries ···············································-··· 1,290
1,704
Fuel ·-·~·-··········-··········-··········-················ 1,595
Oil and waste ......................................
49
46
Repairs .................................................... 1,155
3,650
Building repairs :
Salaries .................................................. 1,593
1,796
Supplies ...................................................
794
1,308
Grounds:
Salaries .................................................... 1,308
1,574
178
Supplies ·····················-···························
298
House and property expense :
Gas .......................................................... 1,681
2,130
2,046
Water -··················•···-··························· 2,002
Light .......................................................• 3,030
3,221
Automobile ........................_.................
175
287
Supplies and expense...................~...... 1,814
1,853
Equipment repairs ..............................
453
892
Administration:
Salaries .................................................. 5,932
6,489
Stationery and printing..............._.....
695
630
Postage .......•..........................................
495
493
Telephone and telegraph......................
523
479
2,070
Other expense ····················-·-····.......... 1,551
Salaries ..........................................................$28,222
$30,831

Up

Down

$3,755
111

451
$287
357
407
198
245
125
2,018
238
382
242

Decoto Horne Expense
Av. oftwo
previous years 1936-1937
Kitchen and dining room:
Food ···-···-···········-···························•····$36,82:2
Salaries and witges................................ 9,520
Operating and misc. expense.............. 6,671
Clothing and sundry...........- ..........:.:.. 3,077
Hospital expense:
Wages and salaries.............................. 8,745
Farm expense :
Wages, salaries .................................. 1,163
Feed and miscellaneous._................... 2,988
Laundry:
Wages and salaries.............................. 2,676
Miscellaneous ...........................,............
949
General Expense :
Wages and salaries....................._....... 12,705
Light, heat, power, water and
miscellaneous .................:.............. 19,412

$41,145
10,894
10,218
3,844

353

Up

$4,323
1,374
3,547
767

8,456
1,235
2,815

Down

289
72

173

2,540

136

1,066

117

14,405

1,700

22,513

3,101

Per Capita Cost

26
254
118
369
130
161
935
109
3

2,495
203
514

Statement of per capita costs (Statistical) fotr the fiscal year ending
July 31, 1937.
Decoto Home-*Cost of ~lntenance..............~.....................•.........................................$114,503.65
Average number of residents ..............._.....................................,........
350
Average operating cost per month.......••..............................;..........., 9,541.97
Average cost per ·day...................................,........................................
313.71
Average cost per tesident per year..........:....- ........,,.................-....
327.15
Average cost per resident per i;nontb.......•...•...•....,.........,..,...............
2726
Average cost per resident per day.....................................;_...........
.88
40
Average number ·employes..................................................................
*The maintenance cost includes general maintenance, hospital, farm, laundry,
pay roll and general expense, less direct revenue--farm produce consumed
and sundry revenue.

120
449
44
191
112
39,
439
457

Covina Home.
*Cost of maintenance.......................... _ ....................·......•.,.........~..........$ 96,395.83
Average number of children..,.........................'............................,.....
159
Average operating cost per month........................................~............ 8,032.98
Average cost per day...............................,...............................................
264.09
Average cost per child per year .......,..................................................
606.26
Average cost per child per month........,......................._.....................
50.52
Average cost per child per dlly;......~.........................~.:....................
1.66
Average number of. erµployes., ........................,.'....._,........:...............
28.5
Children on outside care (not included in the above costs) ........
8

65
2
44

519
$2,609

*The maintenance cost includes care of children, administration expense, farm
expense, less farm produce .consumed and sold outside, miscellaneous
credits appertaining to the direct maintenance of the Home.

•

•

Finances
The financial statements presented herewith by the Grand Secretary
disclose that the total income for the support of the Homes
from all sources for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1937 was ........$326,143.32
There was received on account of various fund accounts (Entertainment, Students Loan, etc.) ........................................,............................. 2,338.17
These amounts together with the cash on hand August 1st, 1936........ 40,305.73
Total to account for ...........................................................................$368,7-87.22
There was expended in the direct support of our two institutions
th
f {Decato ................................................................................$114,503.65
e sum
Covina ...................... _....................................................... 96,395.83

°

Total ......................................................................................................$210,899.48
There was also disbursed from the office of the Grand Secretary for
Outside Relief, General and administration expense........................$ 54,061.55
During the year the Endowment fund note was reduced........................ 75,000.00
Leaving a cash balance on hand July 31,.......,,...,......"'..,..............$ 28,826.19
Cash received since July 31 :.
Home maintenance ···············-···-····-·····............................:........- ...~.......$92,207 .25
Home Building fund ............................- ................................................ 61,471.50
$25 Home fees ·............................................................................................ 31,250.00
As shown above, during the year we paid on our note due the Endowment
Fund the sum of $75,000, leaving a balance due of $75,000. It is our hope to
materially reduce this, if not clean it up, during the coming year. This can be
done if the per capita tax for the support of the Homes remains at its present
figure, which we recommend. All which is respectfully submitted.
c. M. WOLLENBERG,
President.
J. B. GIST, .
Vice President.
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
SAMUELE. BURKE,
J. T •.FRASER,
LEON o. WHITSELL,
WM. H. w ASTE,
Trustees.

Report of Secretary
To the Trustees Masonic Homes:
I present herewith a statement (approved by the auditors) of the receipts
and disbursements and valuations of properties held by the Masonic Homes of
California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1937. The detail of all securities,
notes and insurance policies held in the name of the Homes is contained in the
report of the auditors, filed with the Committee on Finance :
Exhibit A
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1937
General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1936:
In banks ..........................................................
Revolving funds, Decoto and Covina......

355

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEE;DINGS OF THE

354

$ 39,305.73
1,000.00

Receipts
From revenue accounts :
From annual returns :
Home maintenance tax._ .......................$92,246.70
Home building tax .................................. 61,497.80
$25.00 Home tax...................................... 92,795.00 $246,539.50
Endowment fund interest and dividends
Interest on· Endowment Fund note (con- ·
tra) ............................................................
General maintenance-credits from subsidiary accounts-( Including proceeds
received from insurance policies, securities, sale of real estate, etc.,
turned over by residents of homes ;
rentals, etc.) ·········-················--···············
Sundry bequests - held in suspense pending settlement estate......................
Special advances-Lodges, for Decoto.... 1,205.00
Special advances-Lodges, .for Covina.... 5,711.38

31,812.07

State aid for Govina...........,........................
Outside relief (not eligible for Home
relief) - reimbursed through Grand
Lodge ........................................................ 6,600.00
301.18
Outside relief-<>ther reimbursements......

4,947.34

Funeral expense advances-credits ..........

4,690.57

Miscellaneous income accounts:
Farm produce sales-Covina.....- ......... 3,620.26
273.88
Other sundry revenue-Covina............
428.16
Miscellaneous revenue-Decato

4,322.30

----

From other accounts :
Entertainment fund re.ceipts-credits ........
Students' loan fund receipts-credits........
Students' loan fund-bonds redeemed......
Sundry miscellaneous accounts-Covina..

5,000.00

31,927.38
1,023.19 .
6,916.38

6,901.18

5,288.45
2,490.52
5,000.00
. 180.50

Total receipts ....................._............................................................. 357,039.38
Total to account for .........;.•..._..........................................:.......,.,..,,..i..w····-.,...$397,345.11
Disbu.r sements
Expense Accounts :
Operating expense - Decoto (maintenance) ....................................................
Operating expense - Covina ·(maintenance) ..........................................,,.........
Interest endowment fund note (contra) ...
Outside relief ................................................
Outside care of children............................,,

$115,265.66
100,128.00
5,000.00
32,906.42
.2,539.49

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

356

357

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

General maintenance - debits from sub7idiary accounts - (Including taxes,
mterest and exlJense paid out re:
properties turned over by residents
of homes; and life insurance premiums paid, etc.) ........................................
Funeral expense - debits ···········'-··········
Administrative and general expense :
Taxes ,....:,...............:..-.....,....~;~..•1...~."······$ 2,219.96
Insurance ······································-·········· 2,748.85
Field investigation expense:
Northern District ..........$ 2,434.05
Southern District .......... 2,735.84 5,169.89
Reimbursed Grand Lodge F.&.A.M.:
Secretary's and Assistant Secretary's salaries .................,............ 1,800.00
Trustees' expense .........................:..........
359.16
300.00
Auditing -··················································
Safe keeping of securities, etc . ..·........
295.03
498.71
Miscellaneous ''·····~···•·············•···············~
From Other Accounts:
Entertainment fund disbursements debits:
Decoto ........................................................ 3,604.75
Covina ...................................................... 4,286.25
Students' loan fund disbursements debits ..........................................................
Payments account of Endowment Fund
notes payable (balance remaining
$75,000.00) ······························-················
Expense advances-to be reimbursed :
Flint annuity $250.00; Flint Trust
Fund $17.58 ........................................
Miscellaneous accounts-Covina ..............
Miscellaneous accounts-Decato ................
Funds in suspense 1936 transferred to
Endowment Fund ....................................

Security First National Bank-Long Beach
Revolving funds, Decoto and Covina ·-·········
Total

$ 28,826.19

""""""""._•••••••••••••••••••.e••n••••U••••••••• • •~•

Assets

7,974.96
4,422.86

Cash:
.
In ban~s .......:•···:··~·-·····:·····-···········•········· .....$27,826.19
Revolving funds, Decoto and Covina........ 1,000.00

28,826.19

Securities, Real Estate, Etc. (donated):
General fund securities (Schedule B-3) .. 59,013.18
Real estate (assessed value) .................. 26,510.00

85,523.18

Sundry Receivables - Covina..................._...
511.35
Due From Other Funds (Flint Anhuity
$250.00; Flint Trust Fund $17.58) ..........
267.58
Properties: (No depreciation taken on cost)
·
Land, buildings and equipment-Decato 1 782 392.41
Land, buildings and equipment-Covina.. '607:676.05
Land and improvements-Camp Tucker 23,096.00 2,413,164.46
Stores and Supplies :
Decoto .............................................................. 3,183.05
Covina .............................................................. 2,512.70

13,391.60

Total .assets ···········:..·..:··············,·········
Lia/Jilities
Notes Payable-Due Endowment Fund........
Due Other Funds:
Entertainment Fund (Schedule B-1) ...... 3,414.30
Students' Loan Fund (Schedule B-2) ...... 8,790.37

7,891.00
1,608.35

Funds held in suspense:
(Re: Endowment Fund) ..........................

75,000.00

267.58
112.34
353.34

$ 28,826.19

5,979.87
1,959.60

12,204.67
5,353.19

$2,441,430.65

Total .....................................................•

Cash balance July 31, 1937 ..............................

75,000.00

Excess of Assets over Liabilities............

10,289.42

368,518.92

2,533,988.51

92,557.86

$ 9,360.80

1,657.32

5,695.75

Total liabilities -·················-···············

Capital Account
Net worth balance: August 1, 1936, prior
report ··-······················--···········.......................
Add:
Re: Donations of real estate 1936-37
(Recorded at assessed values) (Re- .
ceived $9,665.00; Disposed of $8,030.00) (Net) ........................................
Write up insurance policies from nominal $1.00 value to face ........................
Sundry adjustment ......................................
Excess of revenue over expenses 1936-37

Total disbursements ............................

Composition of Balance
Anglo California National Bank (Commercial account) . ............................................
Security First National Bank of L. A.
(Conunercial account) ..............................
Anglo California National Bank (Endowment lncome Account) ................................
Security First National Bank-Pasadena....

236.50
1,000.00

$2,387,100.19

1,635.00
1,412.00
235.25
61,707.51
64,989.76
2,452,089.95

358

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Deduct:
Adjustment re: funds held in suspense
1935-36, re: endowment fund-cash
$1,657.32; real estate $4,330.00........... .
Re : donations of securities 1936-37 (refer
comment re: valµation) (Received
$9,681.02; disposed of $14,353.00)
(net) ........................................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5 $1,000.00 Blue Diamond Company
6% First Mortgage, due 1942
(Mkt. $5,050.00) ................................

10,659.30
$2,441,430.65

Total ·············-·······································
Net worth balance:. July 31, 1937 ..................
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF ENTERTAINMENT FUND
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ~NDED JULY 31, 1937

Total ······-····-···········'·-·······-····-·-·-···-········-··-··········-············'········· 11,305.30
Disbursed during the year ...................._:..................................................... 7,891.00
Balance, July 31, 1937 (Due from General Fund) ................:.•...,:..•- ... .$ 3,414.30
Schedule B-2

Increases to fund :
F.arnings from securities ..............................
General contributions: (Lodges $145.00;
Individuals $300.00) ............................... .
Profit on bonds called ($5,000.00 Broadway Department Stores 6%) ............... .

42,908.20

445.00
2,490.52

Total ·-···················································
Decreases to fund :
Disbursed for educational purposes ..........

45,398.72

Balance, July 31, 1937 ......................................

$43,790.37

Composition of Fund
Cash (due from the General Fund) ............. .
*Securities :
Bonds: (Market value $12,200.QO)
5 $1,000.00 Sugar Pine Lumber Company 6%, First Mortgage, due 1939
( Mkt. $2,800.00) ..............................
5 $1,000.00 Los Angeles Railway
Company 5% First Mortgage Gold
Bonds, due 1938 (Mkt. $4,350.00)

1,608.35

$ 8,790.37

5,000.00
5,000.00

5,000.00 . 20,000.00
$43,790.37

~---

*Note: (a) Included with the Students' Loan F~nd are cash and securities of
$40,000.00 belonging to "George and Laura Brigham Scholarship Fund."
(b) No interest has been received on Sugar Pine Lumber Company
bonds for several years.
(c) Market value of Masonic Temple Association stock is not determinable hence is not included.

SUMMARY STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSE
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR END_ED JULY 31, 1937

1,985.52

60.00

14,000.00

.................... _............ .. ...................
~

15,000.00

1,000.00

Exhibit C

SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF STUDENTS' LOAN FUND
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1937

$ 2,908.20
40,000.00

Stocks: (Market value $22,716.25)
100 shares Masonic Temple Association ·-············-·······································
527 shares Pacific Gas & Electric. Co.
6% preferred (Mkt. $15,810.00) ....
250 shares Southern California Edison
Co., Ltd. 6% preferred, Series "B"
( Mkt. $6,906.25) ..............................
Total

Balance, August 1, 1936 (Due from Gene~al Fund) ~ ..: ... :..........-.,,.'$ 6,016.85
Receipts during the year .............................................................................. _ 5,288.45

Balance, August 1, 1936:
Cash .<~ue from the General Fund) ........
Secur1t1es ·······························•·············-·········

5,000.00

5,987.32

4,671.98

359

Revenue
Received from general sources:
From annual returns:
Home maintenance tax ············-~·-·~-.$ 92,246.70
Home building tax .............................. 61,497.80
$25.00 Home tax ................................ 92,795.00 $246,539.50
Interest and dividends received from
Endowment Fund securities ............
Interest Endowment Fund note (contra) ··················-····································
General maintenance :
From subsidiary accounts (including
revenue derived from General
Fund securities, real estate sales,
rentals, etc., less expense $7,974.96) ············································
Outside relief (Not eligible for Home
relief)-reimbursed through Grand
Lodge ......................................................
Received by Decoto and Covina, direct :
Special advances from subordinate
Lodges:
Decato (for maintenance) ..............
Covina (for maintenance) ................
State aid receipts-Covina ......................

31,812.07
5,000.00

23,952.42
6,600.00

1,205.00
5,711.38
4~947.34

11,863.72

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Miscellaneous ..................................................
Funeral expense· (excess revenue over expense) ··-················································-····

361

Excess of operating expenses over sundry
direct revenue ...................'...........................

107.90

$114,503.65

267.71

Total revenue ................................
Expense
Operation of Homes (direct) :
Excess operating expense over sundry
direct revenue-Decato (Exhibit D) 114,503.65
Excess operating expense over sundry
direct revenue-Covina (Exhibit E)
96,395.83
Outside relief and care:
Outside relief (less sundry credits
$301.18) ················································ 32,605.24
Outside care of children--'Covina..........
2,539.49
Interest-Endowment Fund note (contra)
Administrative and general expense:
2,219.96
Taxes ············-······-·····-·····························
2,748.85
Insurance ....................................................
Field investigation expense
Northern district ................$2,434.05
5,169.89
Southern district ................ 2,735.84
Secretary's and Assistant Secretary's
salaries ·································-···············
Trustees' expense -··········-····-······'···········
Auditing ··················-···················-·············
Safe keeping of securities, etc.............
Miscellaneous ............................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1,800.00
359.16
300.00
295.03
498.71

326,143.32

*Note: (a) Total operating expenses Decoto, $120,011.28, above include: cash
expenditur~s of $115,265.66 as per Exhibit A, plus farm produce
consumed m amount $5,432.81; less perpetual inventory adjustment for stores issued in amount $687.19.
Schedule D-1

210,899.48

DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSES IN DETAIL
AT DECOTO
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1937

Maintenance Expense

35,144.73
5,000.00

Food:

.

Groceries -·····..···'--······...,'····•·,····-'-···•·-···-····$ 8,493.60
7,835.25
897.52
Provisions, including cured meats.......... 1,822.26
Fruit and vegetables ................................ 6,202.57
Butter, milk and eggs ................................ 12,637.65
Bakers' supplies ..............................._......... 3,256.66

~=~t :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::~-::::::

41,145.51

Kitchen and dining room :
Salaries and wages ··················-················ 10,894.23
Operating and miscellaneous expense...... 10,218.58
Clothing and sundry :

13,391.60

Total expense ·························- ·······

264,435.81

Excess of revenue over expense..................

$ 61,707.51

Dental - ··········-·······················-·········•···········
Clothing ........................................................
Shoes ·······················-···································
Bedding ........................................................

1,119.50
806.63
339.57
1,578.37

3,844.07

Total · ······-·······················-···················

Exhibit D

Hospital Expense
Salaries and wages ..........................................
Miscellaneous expense ....................................

STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE DECOTO
LESS SUNDRY DIRECT REVENUE RECEIVED
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1937

*Operating Expense:
Maintenance ................................................
$ 66,102.39
Hospital ........................................................
9,333.59
Farm ·············-···············································
4,050.48
Laundry ........................................................
3,606.26
General and administrative :
. .
Salaries and wages ······•···············-'··...:.$ 14,405.14
Expenses ···························-··················· 22,513.42
36,918.56
(Reference: See Schedule D-1 for detailed
accounts in support thereof) .
Total (Schedule D-1) ......................
Deduct:
Sundry Direct Revenue:
From operation of farm, etc.:
Farm produce consumed................
5,432.81
Miscellaneous ············--···················
74;82

21,112.81

Total

9,333.59
1,235.00
87.07
109.59
1,898.26
720.56

Total ....................................................
Laundry E xpense
Salaries and wages ..........................................
Miscellaneous expense ....................................

5,507.63

8,456.39
877.20

•n••••••• • ••-•••U ••• u • - ••••n• •o o . . 0 0000000¥

Farm Expense
Salaries and wages ............................................
Tools and equipment ........................................
Seeds ,...........,.....- ...,.....- ....·~························-····
Feed ...................,..................................................
Miscellaneous expense ....................................
120,011.28_

66,102.39

Total

4,050.48
2,540.00
1,066.26
3,606.26

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

362

363

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule E-1

General Expense
Salaries and wages ..........................................
Other expenses :
Light, heat, power, and water ................ 10,956.91
Plant repairs and maintenance ................ 2,076.57
335.18
Freight and express ..................................
231.10
Office printing ...................•........................
Replacements : Furniture and fixtures .. 1,167.31
619.53
Telephone and telegraph ..........................
Miscellaneous expense .............................. 7,126.82

DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSES IN DETAIL
AT COVINA
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1937

14,405.14

Expenses
Care of Children
Food:

~r:~~ {;~Tt·--:i-;;d-;~;;t~bt;~··::::::::::::::=::::-! 3,166.06
5,064.70

36,918.56

Total .......,............................................

$120,011.28

Grand total operating expenses-Decoto......

Note : The above statement includes farm produce consumed, and stores used in
addition to cash expenditures.
Exhibit E

6,436.19

2,133.45
705.01
142.48

2,980.94

Equipment repairs and replacements......

1,903.37
680.58
282.78

2,866.73

Dormitories :
Salaries and wages ·- ······-··························
Sup~lies -··········-·····•················-··················
Equipment repairs and replacements......

9,322.11
2,222.71
948.26

12,493.08

Hospital:
Doctors' and dentist's fees ........................
Salaries and wages ·························-···········
Medical supplies and drugs ......................
Other supplies ............................................
Equipment repairs and replacements......
Outside hospital, x-rays, glasses, etc.....

2,650.70
2,500.35
1,618.22
514.02
100.47
1,528.30

8,912.06

General-care of children:
School supplies ·······-·································
Tonsorial service ......................................
T oilet accessories and supplies................
Miscellaneous ..............................................
Domestic science cottage ·-·······················
Automobile expense ..................................

120.97
416.60
134.79
701.77
649.53
594.87

2,618.53

...............•...........••.,......•...................

Ou~fd:r~~e:i~es ····-·············- ,····················
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . ... . . . ... .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . a . . ....

Kitchen and dining ro~m :
Salaries and wages •...................................

Clothing:
~eady made wearing apparel ..................
Depairs and cleaning ······················-·····-····
rygoods and notions ···········•·············-···

Laundry :
~alaries and wages ...........,........................

105,975.78

5,685.81
3,620.26
273.88
9,579.95

Total ·······················-··········-···\- ···-···
Excess of operating expense over sundry
direct revenue -·······································-

5,048.68
901.29
486.22

c:;::t~ s~pplies ·····················- ···················

Ot

Equipment repairs and replacements ....

$ 87,361.90
10,363.18
8,250.70

(Reference: See Schedule E-1 for detailed
accounts in support thereof).
Total (Schedule E-1) ....................
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
From operation of farm, etc:
Farm produce consumed .•..................
Farm produce sold outside................Miscellaneous ........................................

28,144.36

~gs :=:::=::::.::::=:::'.:::~-~===:~:::::::::::::::::

Sup~lies ····•···-·+-·········-··········-···················

STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE-COVINA
LESS SUNDRY DIRECT REVENUE RECEIVED
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1937

*Operating Expense:
Maintenance (care of children) ............
Administrative expense ..........................
Farm expense ··············-······························

2,544.29
1,532.71
5,225.36 ..
1,013.80
1,936.71
166.15
2,282.84
5,211.74

anned goods -···········-··---·······················
~~~~er and cottage cheese ·:······················

22,513.42

$ 96,395.83

*Note: (a) Total operating expenses Covina, $105,975.78, above, include: cash
expenditures of $100,128.00 as per Exhibit A, plus farm produce
consumed in amount $5,685.81; plus perpetual inventory adjustment for stores issued in amount $161.97.
(b) Sundry credits representing cash revenue received in amount of
$5,948.01 from employees-including children •of Homes, for purchase of clothing, supplies, etc., are deducted from gross maintenance cost in Covina monthly expense distribution reports in
ar riving at the total of $87,361.90 a:bove stated, in conformity
with prior procedure.

up~lies ······-························-····-···•··'-········

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

364

365

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General House and Property Expense :
Power plant:
Salaries and wages ··········-~·-····-···-···~-$ 2,225.02
Fuel oil (oils, waste, etc. $46.38) .... · 1,750.16
Repairs and renewals ·······-················· 3,650.41
Repairs to buildings :
Salaries and wages ..............................
Supplies and expense ..........................
Care of grounds:
Salaries and wages ··················-··········
Supplies and expense ..........................

1,795.79
1,307.99

7,625.59

3,103.78

238.61
87.72
20.00

346.33

Sheep :
Feed ··-······'"··········-··'·--········-················-'··-'
Supplies and expense -·'·•········-·'·-·········"

2.70
60.31

63.01

General farm expense ·-·································
1,573.94
178.23

370.60

Total farm expense ······················-

8,250.70

Grand total operating expenses-Covina....

$105,975.78

1,752.17

General:
Gas ······················································-·
Water ··-····························:··············"······
Light ........................................................
Automobile expense ·················-···-····
Supplies and expense ..........................
Equipment repairs and replacements ....................................................

Pigs:
· Feed ········-·····································-···············
Supplies ........................................................
Replacements ..............................................

Note: The above distribution of expenses includes in addition to cash expenditures, farm produce consumed and stores on hand used.

2,130.08
2,046.12
3,221.11
286.86
1,851.52

JOHN WHICHER,

Secretary. .1
Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home

892.78

10,428.47
87,361.90

Total for care of children ..............

Administrative Expense
Salaries-superintendent and office................
Stationery and printing ....................................
Postage ···············~···································-··········
Telephone and telegraph ................................
Traveling expense ...............................,............
Automobile expense ........................................
Miscellaneous ....................................................
Freight and express ··········-·····························
Office equipment ..............................................

6,488.79
629.88
492.82
478.53
200.90
432.34
1,464.64
135.40
39.88
10,363.18

Total administrative expense ........

Farm
Dairy:
Salaries and wages ...................................... 1,155.54
Feed ...............,..........................,..................... 2,533.46
Herd replacements ....................................
439.00
Supplies and expense ................................
123.15

4,251.15

Orchard:
Salaries and wages ·······-·········-················
Supplies and expense ................................
Tractor fuel and expense ........................

599.83
1,692.53
102.13

2,394.49

Poultry:
Salaries and wages......................................
Feed ·······························-······························· ·
Supplies ;ind expense ................................

116.13
706.56
2.43

825.12

To the Board of _Trustees:
In submitting my twenty-eighth annual report as Superintendent of the
Decoto Home, I am pleased to state that the general conditions are satisfactory.
Tihere has been the usual routine in the management of the Home, without any
· special change during the year.
Last year the membership of the Home was 352; 191 men and 161 women.
Since then, 53 have ·been admitted; 50 have passed away; also, there have been
3 departures; .leaving a present membership of 352; 201 men and 151 women.
The average age is 74 years. Of the men and women, 26 are married couples.
The health conditions of the Home have been fairly good, considering the
age of our members. An average of 45 men and women are being cared for
in our hospital department.
The services rendered by our men and women in the several departments
and on the grounds have been of material benefit to the Home, and is greatly
appreciated.
There has .been no change in the management of the farm. A large part of
the ranch has :been leased on shares or on cash rental. Our share of the hay
crop has been more than sufficient for the needs of the farm department. The
surplus being sold in the local market.
The orchards have supplied plenty of fruit, figs, and nuts for table use;
the surplus was sent to the drier and stored for future use. The vegetable
garden has furnished a variety of vegetables, berries and greens ; and the
poultry yard has supplied eggs for taible use.
Our water supply has been more than equal to the demands made for household, lawns, fire, and irrigation purposes. Our reservoirs have been full at all
times.
The social life of the Home has been greatly enriched by literary and
musical programs, made possible by generous volunteers from Lodges, Eastern
Star Chapters, and friends assisted by residents of the Home. These entertainments are given in our Assembly Hall, and often close with dancing.
The members of the Home often prepare programs, consisting of vocal
and instrumental music, community singing, readings, stage sketches, card
games and dancing-music being furnished by the Home orchestra. Tuesday
evenings are devoted to cards; Friday evenings to chorus practice. Every

366

Thursday evening we have Sound'Moving Pictures in the Assembly hall, whiclt
are welt attended by the members of the Home. The moving pictur~s are
furnished by the San Francisco Film Board of Trade. The Moving Picture
Operators Union No. 169 of Oakland, send one of their members to operate
the picture machines in our projection room. These pictures and operators to
run them, are furnished at no ex·pense to the Home. Brother Warren G. Bailey
of · Balder Lodge No. 393, San Francisco, who donated the moving picture
equipment last year, has made another donation which has improved the acoustics
of the hall, by having the rear wait covered, which greatly improved the sound
effect in the Assembly Hall.
Our chorus now consists of twelve men and women residents of the Home.
They take part in our Sunday services, and lead in community singing and
home programs.
Radios are installed in the club rooms and social halls, where alt can enjoy
the radio programs.
All holidays have been observed 'with appropriate exercises. The croquet
grounds are well patronized.
In addition to our own pictures, many members of the Home have, from
time to time, enjoyed visiting moving picture theaters in the vicinity of the
Home; also, opportunity to make . trips to Oakland and San Francisco, and to
occasionally visit a Lodge or Eastern Star Chapter.
During the year, alt necessary repairs have been made. Many rooms,
outside doors, cornices, windows and door frames, screens, .fences and benches
have been painted.
Our paint and carpenter shops have repaired and varnished all dressers,
tables, etc., also, all repairs to doors, locks, windows, etc. This service has
been done entirely by members of the Home.
Many books have been donated during the year, and have been placed on
the shelves of our main library and branches ; in the club rooms and social
halls. A large number of newspapers and magazines are regularly received,
and greatly contribute to the enjoyment of the patrons of the library and reading rooms.
The Alameda County Free Library maintained at the Home, is· also
greatly enjoyed.
Masonic degrees, at times, are conferred in our Temple by visiting Lodges
for the benefit of the brethren of the Home.
During the year, the officers .of the Grand Lodge and a large number of
brethren from various Lodges have made many visits to the Home.
I am pleased to again extend my appreciation of the services rendered by
the officers and employes 'throughout the year, and to express my sincere
gratitude to the members of the Board of Trustees for the assistance they
have, at all times, given me.
FRANK B. HARTMAN, Superintendent.
Visitations to Decoto Home
September 1, 1936-Federal Theatre Projects. Vaudeville entertainment.
September 12, 1936-Musical program given by members of the Home.
September 19, 1936-Fruitvale Lodge No. 336, Second Degree in the afternoon. Miscellaneous program in the evening.
September 26, 1936-Dimond Lodge No. 603, musical program. Dancing.
September 30, 1936-Pacific Service Employes' Association-3-Act Comedy,
"Her Friend the King." Music by Orchestra.
·
October 3, 1936-Foothill Lodge No. 564, and Foothill Chapter No. 433,
0. E. S. Vocal and instrumental program.
October 9, 1936-Elmhurst Lodge No. 610, First Degree.

' 367

GRAND LODGE .OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

October 12, 1936-Annual visit of the officers and delegates of the Grand

.

L~~

October 31, 1936-Federal Theatre Projects. Vaudeville entertamment.
Dancing, etc.
November 6, 1936-Fruitvale Bethel No. 14, Order of Job's Daughters
Entertainment.
November 7, 1936-Albany Y. M. C. A. and Community Center-Musical
program.
"
November 11, 1936-The Curtain Callers, Oakland. 3-Act Comedy, The
Rowdy Gentleman."
November 26, 1936-Thanksgiving program by members of the Home.
Refreshments and dancing.
. .
December 4, 1936-P. T. A Choral Society of Alameda-Ch~rus smg1ng.
December 8, 1936-Stereopticon pictures in natural colors. National Parks,
San F rancisco Bay Bridge Ceremonies.
.
,
December 9 1936-Musicians' Union, San Franc1sccr-Band Concert 111
the afternoon Orchestra program in the evening.
Decembe; 12, 1936-Live Oak Lodge No. 61. Miscellaneous pr.ogram.
December 17, 1936-Pupils of Grammar School, Decoto. Ent~rtamment.
December 19, 1936-0akland Assembly No. 11, Order of Rainbow for
Girls. Initiation.
December 20, 1936-San Jose Assembly No. 5, Order of Rainbow for
Girls. Entertainment.
December 25, 1936-Christmas services . in the A~sem~! Hall.
December 25, 1936-Christmas Carols m the mam dmmg room. Distribution of presents.
f th H
December 31-New Year's Eve, program by members o
e
ome.
~~~
1
February 14, 1937-Unity Chapter No. 65, O. E . S. Vocal and instrumenta
.

program.
.
, b'rthd
b mem
February 22, 1937-Washington's and Lmco1n s 1
ay program Y
•
bers of the Home. Dancing, etc.
.
February 28, 1937-0tis' Orchestra, Oakland. Mu~1cal program.
March 5, 1937-Charity Lodge No. 362. Entertainment. .
March 251 1937-Fruitvale Chapter, Order of DeMolay-F1rst Degree.
March 28 1937-Easter services given by members of the Home.
April 17, 1937-Albany Y. M. C. A. and Community Center. Program by
Albany H igh School Glee Club.
April 18 1937-Mount Oso Lodge No. 460-Stage Play, etc.,
April 28 1937-55th Masonic District, comprising. the foUowmg Lodges:
Santa Cruz ~fo. 38, Texas No. 46 Pajaro No. 110, Keith No. 187, and San
Benito No. 211.
A S
Pl
May 9, 1937-Brilliant Star Chapter No. 472, 0. E: S. ~- ct ta~e ay.
May 14, 1937-Pupils, P. S. A. Academy of Music, Niles. Musical pro1

gramMay 15, 1937-Parnassus Lodge ~o. 388, and Parnassus Chapter No. ~69
O. E. S. Miscellaneous program, dancing.
.
May 16 1937-Paul Revere Lodge No. 462. Minstrel Show.
May 20: 1937-Indian Rock Lodge No. 638-Musical program by Berkeley
Men's A Cappella Choir.
May 23, 1937-San Francisco Chapter, Order of DeMolay. "Mothers Day
..
Ceremony."
May 231 1937-Aloha Chapter No. 206, O. E. S. Annual vlSlt to the Home.
May 25 1937-0riental Lodge No. 144, Second Degree.
1937-Golden Rule Lodge No. 479, Second . Degree.
May

z8,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
:i.
May 30, 1?~7-Memorial Day exercises. Annual visit to the Home Cemete'ty. ·
•
... Jun~ 4, 19~7-San Jose Assembly No. 5, Order of Rainbow for Girls.
3-Act Stage Play.
.,
June 5, 1937-Masonic Officers' Club, comprising the following Lodges:
Woodstock No. 49i, Apollo No. 396 and Oak Grove No. 215. Miscellaneous
J;?rogram.
;r,,;.)urie 12, 1937-C. C. Morse's Moving Pictures-Grand Canyon, Canadian
Ro.ckies, Cali(ornia National Parks.
· ·June 13, 1937-Albert Pike Chapter No. 284, O. E. S. Entertainment.
June 20, 1937-Scottish Rite Orchestra-Concert.
June 24, l937~A1ta Vista Lodge No. 464, Second Degree.
July 4, 1937~Patriotic exercises in the Assembly Hall, dancing, etc.
July 23, 1937-San Jose Lodge No. 10-Second Degree.
August 21, 19.37-Annual visit of the officers and mem'bers of the East
Bay Past Matrons' Association of the East Bay cities, accompanied :by the
Woi;thy Grand Matron and Worthy Grand Patron, 0 . E. S.
August 28, 1937~akland Lodge No. 188-Second Degree in the afternoon
and ~iscellaneous program in the evenihg.

Donations to Decoto Home
. . East Bay .Past Matrons' Association-64 large home-made cakes. 2720
gtasses of jelly and jam, 56 table covers, 30 dresser scarfs, 36 night gowns,
12 comforters.
. W.a rren G. Railey, San ·Francisc<>-La•bor and material covering rear wall
cil Assembly Hall, to improve the acoustics.
. Hattie S .. Walton, Sacrament<>-1 large framed oil painting, "Grapes."
·,..,., Oroville Lodge No. 103-5 gallons ripe olives.
,Qxnard Lodge No. 341-50 pounds ljma beans, 100 pounds walnuts.
Mrs. A. L. Bachroot, San Jose-1 package of magazines .
.. ,. Mi:~. Carl Schusster, Lagunitas-1 package men's clothing.
Mrs. Lillian Cool, Berkeley-20 glasses jelly.
Dr. 0 . S. Dean, Oakland-3 packages periodicals.
Decoto Bakery-I large Christmas cake.
Robert S. Atkins, San Francisc<>-25 men's straw hats.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21-4 large .packages of men's clothing.
pipital City. Lodge No. 499-1 package magazines.
San Jose Lodge No. 10-1 Webster's New International Dictionary. 1 package periodicals.
~ .C .H. Walbourn, San Francisc<>-15 volumes books.
., . ~'M;,s. J. Boardman, Oakland-1 package of magazines.
Monterey Lodge No. 41-1 box of miscellaneous articles of clothing.
. J.,aura Davidson, San Jose-1 package of silk scraps.
'.:'P. A. Manteno, Oakland-1 package of ·periodicals.
·•· Ike Tughler, San Francisc0---:-2 pairs of men's shoes.
R,efnolds Tobacco Co., San Francisc<>-3 packages of smoking tobacco.
R. Qfristian, Oakland-1 sliding puzzle.
Mrs. L. F. Test, Pasadena-1 package of periodicals.
'.Mrs. E. A. Gilbert, San Jose-4 large packages of men's clothing.
Mrs. C. H . Rollman, Alameda-1 package of magazines.
.. -Mrs. C. P " Davies, Berkeley-1 cabinet phonograph, 6 books of operatic and
popular records.
, Jnglewood Lodge No. 421-2 .boxes of oranges.
·· Chas. D. Stevens, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57-1 volume Encyclopedia of
Free Masonry. .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

369

Mrs. Luella P. Lindsley-15 volumes miscellaneous books. .
The White House, San Francisc<>-1 large package of magazines.
Coachella Lodge No. 387-30 pounds dates .
Franklin Chapter No. 20-5 gallons ripe olives.
Foothill Lodge No. 564-1 package of magazines.
.
Porterville Lodge No. 303-2 boxes of oranges.
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479-20 pounds candy, 150 ~1gars.
A. R. Russell, San Francisco-4 suits of men's clothing.
Lindsay Lodge No. 416--20 boxes of oranges.
Oakland Tribune Publishing Co.-3 subscriptions to daily and Sunday
Tribune.
Parnassus Lodge No. 388--<:andy and cigars.
Dr. J. N. Nathan-1 large package of magazines.
.
Mrs. James Dunn, Oak!and-1 large elk antlers mounted, 7 volumes miscellaneous books.
Sophia B!inn-3 volumes books.
A friend-3 gold headed canes.
.
Molina Lodge No. 150-1 package of magazines.
Nellie G. Crawley-21 volumes miscellaneous books.
Mrs. F. Bowring, Oakland-1 scrap bo?k.
Continental Baking Co.-1 frozen pudding.
Silver Spray Chapter No. 57, 0. E. S.-2 boxes oranges ..
Grace M. Driscoll-1 patch quilt, 1 package of ~amples of silk.
Charles Jerome Oakland-1 package of magazines.
Charles E. Arn'.otd-1 dresser, 1 table, 2 chairs, .15 volumes books.
August F. Trenschel-1 radio.
.
.
•
Robert G. Wallace--1 radio, 15 volumes books.
C. B. Wilson, Oakland-2 volumes Fifty Year~ of Masonry '!1 Cahforma.
C. A. Butler, San Francisc<>-12 packs of playing cards, SO cigars •
Chas. E. Moore, Alameda-12 volumes books.
R. H . Beaver-1 radio, 10 volumes misce!lan~ous books.
San Jose Assembly, Order of Rainbow for Girls-165 table favors.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decato Home
Lodge
No.
Acorn ........._...................494 $
A. F. E. lrwin ................645
Alameda _....- ................ 167
Alamo ............................122
Alcatraz ..........................244
Alexandria .........o.. ~ ..... 531
Alisa! ..............................32.1
Alpha .......:.......................431
Alturas ........................... 248
Amador .......................... 65
Amity ............·..................370
Apollo ..................- ......... .396
Arcata .. :..............,..........106
Argonaut .......- ...............461
Argonne ..........................514
Ashlar ................,...........306
Atascadero ..................-493
Athens ............................228
Azusa ..............................,305
Bakersfield ....................224

Amt.
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Balder ...................... _ ...393
Bay City ........................ 526
Bay View ......................401
Bell ........................ :.-.....483
Berkeley ,,...................... 363
Blackmer ....................,.442
Blythe ............................473
Brooklyn ........................2Z5
Buckeye _ .......................195
Burlingame ........... ,........400
Cahuenga ........................513
Caledonia ........................486
California ...................... 1
Callayomi ..................... 282
Carmel ............................680
Carquinez ·--·········-·····..337
Charity ..........................362
Charter Rock ................410
Chico .....- ...................... 111
Claremont ......................436

Amt.
12.50
10.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.40
10.00
10.00
5.00

370

Lodge
No.
Clay ..............................;.101
Coalinga .................... :... 387
Colusa ············-··············24(}
Compass ·············-·········590
Confidence ......................203
Corinthian ...................... 9
Corona ..............•..~.....:....324
Coronado .•....•.................441
Covenant ....:................... 527
Crescent .......................... 45
Crockett J••••••••••••••••••• _ •.139
Culver City ....................467
Cupertino ·······-············•510
Curtis ··················-··········140
Damascus ......................648
Delta ............................-471
Dinuba .......................... _385
Doric ..............................216
Downey ....... ~ ..................220
Dunsmuir ··················-··297
Durant ........................... .268
East Bay ........................489
East Gate ........•...............290
Eel River ...................... 147
El Cajon ........................576
El Centro ......................384
El Dorado ..............•....... 26
Elmhurst ·······-···············610
Elsinore ..........................289
El Segundo ...... - ............507
Elysian ............................418
Enterprise ...................... 70
Eucalyptus ....................243
Eureka ............. :.............. 16
Evergreen ........•.............259
Excelsior ........................ 166
Fairmount ..............•.......435
Fallbrook ........................317
Far West ··················-····673
Ferndale -······················193
Fidelity .................... ~ ..... 120
Fillmore ············-············379
Fontana :.........................653
Fort Crook •.............•..... 575
Fortitude ........................624 .
Francis Drake ..............376
Franklin ........................ 143
Fremont ..........................497
Fresno ..: ..........•.....•- ......241
Friendship ......................210
Fruitvale ........................336
Galt ..•........•......................267
George Washington ....525
Golden Gate .................. 30
Gold Hill ................•....... 32

Amt.
10.00
10.00
5.00
• 5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

5.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00

5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
12.50
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00

Lodge
No.
Golden Rule ................. .479
Guardian ........................ 596
Hammonton ................. .433
Hanford ........................279
Hawaiian ·······-············· 21
Henry Knox ..................662
Henry Morse Stephens.. 541
Herman ·-···-··················127
Hesperian ......................264
Highland Park ............382
Hill's Ferry .... ~ .............236
Hiram ·······-··················· 43
Hollenbeck ....................319
Hollywood ..................•.355
Holtville ....................... A25
Honolulu ............•..........:409
Howard ···············-········· 37
Humboldt ...................... 79
Indian Rock ..................638
Ione .................................. 80
J ewe! ...............:....•...... :..374
John P. Jarman ............669
Jonathan ·····-···············,.545
Kauai .......•..,, ........,......... 589
Kaweah .........................:665
King David's ................209
La Brea ...... _:....•............650 ·
La Fayette ....................126
Lakeshore ...................... 551
La Mesa ..... :......,. ....•..~..407
Landmark ._.: .................253
La Parfaite Union........ 17
·Las Palmas ...... ,.. .,,;.....,..366
Laurel ............•...............245
Le Progres de
L'Oceanie ..................371
Libertas ....:................•:...466
Liberty ............................299
Live Oak .............•..•....... 61
Lodi ......:.............·............256
Lompoc :.........................262
Long Beach ..................327
Los Angeles ............. ,......42
Los Gatos ···········-·········292
Madera ..........................280
Madison ........................ 23
Malta .... :...............•.....••..661
Maricopa ···········-·-·······.434
Maril! -··:······-·················191
Martinez ........................ 41
McKinley ..•.:.................347
Mendocino ................•...179
Midway ...•.....................•426
M!ll _Yalley ·········-·····.... 356
M1ss1on .......................... 169

371

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS .OF THE

Amt.
5.00
2.50
25.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00

15.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00

Lodge
No.
Modesto ..............,..•...... ,..675
Molino ··-··-·······---·········150
Monterey · ······-···-··-···.217
•Morgan Hill ..................463
Mosaic ...........•... _...........218
Mount Diablo ................448
Mount Moriah .............. 44
Mount Oso ···········-·······460
Mountain View ........... .194
Natoma .......................... 64
Naval .............................. 87
Needles ·······-·····-··········326
Nevada .......................... 13
Nicolaus ........................ 129
Norwalk ...................~ ....315
Oak Grove ....................215
Oakland .....................:....188 .
Oasis ....•.•.....•.................~
Occidental .....................• 22
Ocean Park ..................369
Ontario ................,.........301
Oriental •.•...............•.......144
Orland ............................265
Oxnard ..........................341
Pacific ...........................•136
Pacific Grove ................331
Paj aro ••-'...........•..•....•....110
Palisades •.,....................'..637
Palestine ........................351
Palo Alto ......................346
Palos Verdes ................ 389
Park ................................449
Parnassus ..................,....388
Pasadena ·············-·~······272
Paso Robles ..................286
Paul Revere ..................462'
Penrhyn :.......................258
Perris ·······················-····.411
Petaluma .................•...... 180
Phoenix ..............•.........•. 178
Piedmont ........................ 521
Pinole ··········-·················353
Pittsburg ......................•.429
Plumas ............................ 60
Point ...... :......................... 503
Point Firmin .................558
Pomona .. :.......•..........•....246
Presidio .......................... 354
Reading ..........................254
Redondo ···········-···········.1.328
Redwood City ..............168
Richmond ..................:...375
Rio Vista ......................208
Rising Light .................. 397
Riverside ·················-·····635

Amt.
·2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
7.50
15.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
5.00

Lodge
No.
Rockridge ......................468
Roseville ....................... .222
Roosevelt ················-····500
Russian River .............. 181
S'1cramento ...........•........ 40
San Bernardino ............348
San Diego ...................... 35
San Fernando ..............343
San Francisco ..............360
San Gabriel .................. 546
San Gorgonio ·······-·······668
San Jacinto .................... 338
San Jose ........................ 10
San Mateo ·················-···226
San Miguel ..................285
San Pedro ......................332
San Simeon ..................196
Santa Ana ......................241
Santa Barbara .............. 192
Santa Cruz .................... 38
Santa Maria .................. 580
Santa Monica ................ 307
Santa Rosa ..................... 57
~eaport ·····-··············:.... 550
Security ..........................581
Selma ····'······-····-·······:.•2'1'1
Semper Virens .............. 552
Sequoia •.....................•...349
Silver Gate ....................296
Silver Trowel ..............415
Silveyville .................•....201
Sincerity ...:........,. ...........132
Sisson .....•..............•.........310
Southern California ....278
So. San Francisco ......212
Speranza-Italiana ........219
Standard ........................440
St. Helena ...................... 93
Starr King ............... 344
Suisun ·····-····················· 55
Sunnyvale ..............•.....•. 511
S. W. Hackett .......•.....• 574
Taft ................................ 516
Tehachapi .....................•313 ·
Tehama .......................... 3
Temblor ·····-···················477
Texas .........•.................... 46
Thousand Oaks ............ 478
Torrance ........................447
Tuolumne ...................... 8
Union .............................. 58
Utopia ....•....................... 537
Vacaville ········-··············134
Vallejo ....•.......................487
Veritas ...,.......,................640
0

•••••

Amt.
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
12;50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00

5.00
10.00
2.50

372

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Vesper ............................ 84
Victorville ..•...................634
Victory ······-················-474
Visalia ............................ 128
Washington .................. 20
Western Star ··········-···· 2
White Pine .................... 555
Willow Glen ................676
Wilmington ..................198

Amt.
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
2.50

Lodge
No.
Wilshire ··-·······-•·········--445
Winriedumah ·········-----.287
Woodbridge ····-·····--····.131
Woodland ....................-156
Woodstock ....................491
Yerba Buena ····-···-····--403
Yolo -------·······--·-···········-· 81
Yosemite ........................ 99

Amt.
10.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery
No.
Alameda ........................ 58
Auburn ---········--·--·-----·- 52
Bakersfield --------------·--· 39
Berkeley ........................ 42
Calvary .......................... 62
Colusa ............................ 24
Eureka ·······-···············-··· 35
Fresno ............................ 29
Golden West ................ 43
Marysville ..........,............ 7
Mt. Olivet -------·-········--·· 20
Mount Shasta .............. 32
Naval .............................. 19
Oakland .........................• 11

Amt.

5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
~.00

2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00

Commandery

No.

Oroville ·········--·············· 5
Pacific ............................ 3
Red Bluff ·····-············-·· 17
Sacramento .................... 2
San Francisco .............. 41
San Jose ........................ 10
San Luis Obispo .........• 27
San Pedro ...................... 60
Santa Cruz .................... 44
Ukiah .............................. 33
Vacaville ........................ 38
Visalia ............................ 26
Watsonville .................. 22
Woodland ...................... 21

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Alameda ........................ 70
Antioch ····-··········--·---·--· 65
California ··········-·-···-·'··· 5
Coalinga -·····--··-··-··-······114
Colusa ............................ 60
Cyrus .............................. 15
Crown ............................ 72
Hanford ................:..... _ 74
Boward .......................... 14
Humboldt ...................... 52
Keystone ........................ 56
Los Angeles ................ 33
Marin ............................. .102
Martinez ........................ 31
Mill Valley ..................108
Nevada .......................... 6
Oakland .......................... 36

Amt.
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Chapter
No.
Ontario ···-··-·--··········-···-105
Petaluma .......................• 22
Pomona .......................... 76
Red Bluff ...................... 40
Redondo ..............•.........101
San Francisco .............. 1
San Luis Obispo ········'- 62
Santa Cruz .................... 38
Siloam ............................ 37
Sonora ······---·-················ 2
South Pasadena ............ 112
St. Helena ...................... 63
Visalia ............................ 44
Washington .................. 13
Wilmington ..................141
Woodland ...................... 46

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Councils, R. & S. M.
Council
No.
California ...................... 2
Pomona ----·················---- 21

Amt.

2.50
5.00

Council

No.

Valley ····-··········-············ 27

Amt.
5.00

Lodges of Perfection
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
25.00
Sacramento .................... 4
California ·······--·-···-------- 10
Fresno ............................ 6
15.00
San Francisco .............. 1
Oakland .......................... 2
5.00
Chapters, 0. E. S.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
Line Officers' Assn.
Milt Valley ··-·············-··219
Santa Clara Valley..
5.00
Mira Monte .................. 141
Mercedes ........................J26
10.00
San Rafael ................... .215

373
Amt.
25.00
25.00

Amt.
10.00
5.00
10.00

Individuals and Miscellaneous
F. J. Breckenridge, Los Angeles ..................•.........................................,.•.:...$ 1.00
Howard G. Henkle ....................•.......;...............................................•........•.... _ 25.00
Hiram Masonic Club ... ·--········-·····-···~·····-·: ...•.......;...... -···-·················---·- 10.00·
Masters', Wardens' and Senior Deacons' Club, 39th Masonic District........ 5.00
Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers' Club....................................•..•....- .• 10.00
Frank G. Vf atso11 .......:.................:..;.•......... _____ _, ........•.......•:............................... 10.00
Names of Residents--Decoto Home
Following is a complete list of residents of the Decoto Home, the
date of their admission, •their respective ages, the name and number of the
Lodges nominating them and the location of such Lodges, complete to
August 31, 1937.
MEN, 201. Average Age 74.61
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Alderman, Alfred H ......... Oct. 6, '26 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ......75
Allen, Henry D •............ Apr. 15, '34 Park ....................449 San Francisco..67
Alseth, Lars ............ .'....... Mar. 7, '34 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ......63
Anderson, Charles A ..... Nov. 19, '36 Tehachapi ···-·-·····313 Tehachapi ........ 74
Archer, Ernest E.............Jan. 30, '36 Palos Verdes ...... 389 Long Beach .... 70
Asmus, Ernest A•............ Deq. 16, '34 Mill Valley ..........356 Mill Valley ......67
El Cajon Valley.. 576 El Cajon .......... 75
Atwood, Ira A ................. Sept. 7, '31
Bader, Henry •............... Nov. 28, '28 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco.. 73
Bailey, Wellman J ......... Dec;. 25, '28 Callayomi ............282 Middletown ....88
Bang, Anders .., ............... Jan. 29, '30 Fresno ..................247 Fresno •..........•.. 78
Barnes, Elmer W ............. July 7, '34 Liberty .. :.............299 Santa Clara ....68
Battle, Joseph D............... Dec. 9, '30 Stanislaus ............206 Modesto .......... 77
Beal, Charles L ...............F~b. 15, '34 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ....- ....71
Beall, Alex. D ................. Mar. 29, '36 Mount Moriah .... 44 San Francisco.. 73
Beall, Samuel J •..............Mar. 26, '36 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco ..69
Becht, George J ...:........ _..;Nov. 3, '35 Mission ···-·-······--.169 San Francisco.. 81
Benjamin, William E ....... May 1, '37 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ...... 79
Benninger, William G... Mar. 27, '34 • Hanford ..............279 Hanford --·······71
Oakdale .............•..275 Oakdale ..........•. 77
Bentley, Isam H.-.........•.. Jan. 31, ·~1
Bird, Robert B................... Dec. 6, '36 Mission .... :........... 1.69 San Francisco.. 74
Blankinship,
Joseph W. ··-··-~·-·········-June 16, '34 Hartley ···'······--.--199 Lakeport .......... 75
Bly, Carl D .........................July 7, '34 Hollenbeck ..........319 Los Angeles .... 77
Boehm, Hiram J •...........July 19, '31
Big Bear ····-··--·--617 Pine Knot ...... 74
Bonde, Hans P .................July 6, '32 Alisa! ··•·······-·····---321 Pleasanton ......74
Bosanko, Thomas W •.... Aug. 30, '35 Gravel Range .... 59 Camptonville ..62
Bosserman, David W ..... Nov, 7, '35 South Park ........563 Los Angeles ....81

374

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Alturas ................248
Hill's Ferry ........236
Charter Rock ......410
San Pedro ..........332
Speranza Italiana ..c•••••••••••••••••219
Carpenter, John J .............May 2, '37 Mendocino .......... 179
Carr, Mell A.:................... Aug. 4, '36 lone ...................... 80
Fairmount ..........435
Cartwright, Harry D .....May 25, '35
Cassady, Earl J .................Feb. 3, '36 George Washington ..............525
Casterline, Myron N ..... Nov. 16, '32 Oceanside ............381
Coalinga ..............387
Cavender, Isaac !...........Mar. 18, '37
Gosson, Harry J. ............May 4, '31 Tuolumne ............ 8
Collins, Nelson W .........Sept. 12, '19 Calistoga ..............233
Corson, Joseph M...........Dec. 30, '33 · Valley ..................135
Crandall, Almeron ..........Oct. 24, '34 Long Beach ........327
Cullen, Alexander ............Feb. 4, '36 Hollywood ..........355
Westwood ..........501
Daigle, Leo ...........~ .........May 26,'37
Daniels, George S .............Aug. 1, '37 Riverbank .........:..459
Delano, Ira L .....................;Feb. 2, '36 Roseville ..............242
Dillman, Thomas M.......May 16, '37 Norwalk ..............315
Dinesen, Jacob N.:........:.. Nov. 1, '32 Live Oak .•............ 61
Redlands ..............300
Dolan, John C ...................Aug. 4, '31
Duncalf, Walter ............Oct.28, '36 Arbuckle .:............ 182
Porterville ..........303
Ekman, Gustaf A .............May 5, '35
Pentalpha ............202
Engle, Wm. H :..............Dec.12, '31
Ernst, Cuno A .......,....... Aug. 26, '32 Tehama ................ 3
Fender, Andrew J ...~ .........Dec. 5, '30 Northern Light .. 190
Ferg·uson, Paris J ........... May 26, '34 Sotoyome ......•.....123
Finigan, John P ...............Dec. 12, '36
Santa Paula ........291
Fisher, Homer C.............May 28, '32 Janesville ............232
Fitting, Hans H .............May 27, '33
San Bernardino ..348
Fraiberger, Max ..........Sept. 12, '33 Pacific ..................136
Franck, Isadore ...........:..Jan. 10, '16 La Parfaite
Union ................ 17
Fraser, Garnet W ...........Oct. 19, '32 Caiifornia ............ 1
Garrett, Benjamin G..... Mar. 24, '35 Consuelo ..............325
Georges, Carl L ............•Sept. 29, '34 Balder ..................393
Gilbert, Thomas ............ May 20, '36 Sequoia ................349
Gilmartin, Thomas E ..... Oct. 28, '34 Suisun .................. 55
Goodman, Wm. H ...........Oct. 20, '32 Fraternity ............399
Goodrich; Edward .......... Aug. 8, '.31
Fresno ..................247
Gordon, George A ......~ ..June 19, '36 Chico ..............._111
Gordon, Luther D ...........Feb. 12, '28 Carquinez ............337
Grant, George..L..........:......Oct. 6, '32. Geoq{etown ........ 25
Greaves, Walter ............Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ..................396
Gregory,. George W ....... Apr. 25, '36 Sunset ..................352
Halpin, Robert L .............Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel ....415
Hamblin, Abraham L .......Jan. 8, '34 South West ........283
Hamilton, Hiram M.....Mar. 15, '32 California ............ 1
Hamilton, Robert M.......Apr. 25, '36 Temblor ..........,...477
Harpster, Harry W .........Nov. 5, '30 Tehachapi ............313
Harris, Elijah ...........~;.....July 6, '35
Pasadena ..............272
Harris, Louis ..................Jan. 13, '23
Los Angeles ........ 42
Name
Admitted
Bush, Elmer E.................Jan. 13, '30
Camery, Ralph S .....•.........July 5, '35
Carden, Wm. L .......,....... Nov. 27, '30
Carey, Wm. F...............Sept. 16, '31
Carfagni, Peter ..............Oct. 31, '36

Town
Age
Alturas ............75
Newman ....,.....50
Berkeley •......•..71
San Pedro ......67
San Francisco..76
Mendocino ..."... 78
Ione ..................70
San Francisco..72
San Francisco..66
Oceanside .....'...72
Coalinga .....•....71
Tuolumne ........68
Calistoga ..........75
Linden •......:......80
Long Beach......83
Hollywood ...... 74
Westwood ......64
Riverbank ........74
Roseville ..........82
Norwalk ....:.....88
Oakland .:........75
Redlands ..........72
Arbuckle ...:..:...79
Porterville ..:...83
Los Angeles ....67
Sacramento ....74
Millville ..........74
Healdsburg .......93
Santa Paula ....73
Janesville ........64
San B'rn'rdino 88
San Francisco.. 71
San Francisco..89
San Francisco..63
Escondido ......•.72
San Francisco..86
Oakland ..........78
Suisun ..............65
San Jose ........:..83
Fresno ..............82
Chico ................71
Crockett ........:.82
Georgetown ....75
Alameda· ..........68
Los Angeles ....71
Los Angeles ..:.64
National City ..71
San Francisco..84
Fellows ............71
Tehachapi .......:70
Pasadena ..........72
Los Angeles ....61

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Hartin, Robert ..........•:......Jan. 8, '37 Arcata ..................106
Haupt, Oscar ................ ~.June 28, '30 Naval .................... 87
Hayes, Corwin J ............... Mar. 5, '36 Covina ..................334
Hazard, Emil J .........,..... Aug. 10, '25
San Jose .............. 10
Santa Maria ........ 580
Heath, James H .................Feb. 8, '35
Hedley, John ..................Dec. 16, '33 Golden Gate ........ 30
Henry, Albert P ............. Mar. 17, '34 Jordan ....•.............654
Henry, Wm. P ...............July 10, '37 Yount .................... 12
Hotchkiss, Marshall E ...June 11, '30 Santa Cruz .......... 38
Huff, Wm. J ...............•.......A.pr. 8, '37 San Jose .............. 10
Hughes, Eugene F ........:Mar. 11, '33 Phoenix ................178
Hughes, Henry J. ..........:.Dec. 26, '35 Fairmount ............435
Hunn, George ...............:.. Aug. 1, '34 Salinas ..................204
Hyde, George ................Dec. 22, '30 Mill Valley ........356
Hyde, Joseph H ...............June 10, '34 Franklin ..............143
Isaac, Adolph ..................Jan. 31, '37 Doric ....................216
Jackson, John F .............May 16, '37 . Golden Gate ........ 30
Jensen, James L ............... Mar.2, '33 Texas .................• 46

375
Town
Age
Arcata ..............59
Vallejo ............74
Covina ...........,:.72
San Jose ..........73
Ramona ..........74
San Francisco...88
Los Angeles ....78
Napa ................80
Santa Cruz ......74
San Jose ..........72
San B'rn'rdino 84
San Francisco..67
Salinas ............74
Mill Valley ......78
Courtland ........88
San F rancisco ..76
San Francisco..79
San J uan
Bautista ...... 75
Dinuba ............86
Oakland ..........86
San Francisco..74
Chula Vista ....82
Morgan Hill....70
San Francisco..80
Mariposa ....,.....76

Johnson, Daniel F ......... Sept. 16, '29 Dinuba ................385
Journal, Philip S............. Mar. 6, '27 ' Sequoia ................349
Keith, Herbert B...........Nov. 17, '33 Oriental ...............J44
Kellogg, Irving M ........... Dec. 2, '30 ,Chula Vista ........626
Kerr, Charles A............:Aug. 25, '37 Morgan Hill ......463
Kimball, John C............. Mar. 27, '33 Mt. Moriah ........ 44
Kinchin, Peter ................Nov. 4, '35 Mariposa ............ 24
Kirsch, Louis C.............Mar. 20, '37 · South San Francisco ..................212 San Francisco..61
Kittredge, Charles H .......Nov. 4, '33 Hollenbeck ..........319 . Los -Angeles ....73
Kline, Benj. G.................Feb. 12, '37 Laurel ..................245 Willows .......... 75
Knockenhaur, Herman..July 21, '35 Humboldt ...........• 79 Eureka ............64
Kuppfer, John A. ............Feb. 10, '34 Alisa! ....:...............321 P leasanton ......70
Lagomarsino, G.............May 12, '22 :Speranza Italiana ....................219 San Francisco..81
Laton, Edward -L...........Apr. 23, '32 La Fayette ..........126 Sebastopol ......72
Laurence, Guerdo11 C....:.. Apr. 8, '36 Hollenbeck ..........319 Los Angeles ....62
Lehmann, August· H ....... Dec. 14, '28 ·Santa Monica ......307 Santa Monica ..78
Ly11ch, Walter C............:.. Feb. 8, '36 Pasadena .......;......272 Pasadena ........62 .
Marsh, Charles P ........'...Oct. 10, '31
South Gate ..........320 Los Angeles ....74
Marshall, Joseph 0 ....:.. May 23, '35 Union··--·········-····· 58 Sacramento ....74
Martin, Benj. R..............:May 15, '24 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz .... )12
Matson, Martin B........... Dec. 15, '27 Eden ....- ..........~.....113 San Leandro ..80
Matthews, Elbert C.......July 10, '35 La Mesa ..............407 La Mesa ..........69
Mayfield, George ..........Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ....................431 Richmond ........72
McAlpine, David J ........... Oct. 1, '36 South Gate ..........320 Los Angeles ....84
McClain, Charles A .......July 26, '33 Mosaic ..................218 Livermore ........83
McDowell, Wm. M......... Apr. 6, '36 University .....:....394 Los Angeles ....80
McRae, Alexander ........ Oct. 20, '30 Laurel ........:.........245 Willows .:...... _73
Messe, George W ...........June 21, '34 Monterey ............217 Monterey ........66
Metcalf, Chris. D........... Apr. 19, '35 Redondo ..............328 Red'ndo Beach 73
Mikkelsen, Christian ......July 30, '36 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..........75
Millar, David S .........:.......Apr. Z, '32 Southern California ..............278 Los Angeles .....79
Milisich, Chris. ..................Oct. 5, '31
Speranza Italiana ....................219 San Francisco.. 73

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

376

Admitted
Name
Moore, Edward A ........... May 1, '37
Morris, Harry B........... Nov. 28, '30
Morrison, George D ..... Mar. 20, '30
Morrison, Wm. F ...........June27, '32
Murden, Robert J ......... Mar, 26, '28
Myers, Wm. P ..:................Feb. 1, '32
Nannestad, Henrik ........Mar. 8, '23
Nevitt, Charles E ...........Oct. 31, '36
Nichols, Thomas L ........... Apr. 3, '36
North, Edwin B............... Apr. 2, '29
Oates, Lewis D ..............:..Feb. 3, '34
Otto, Fred A .....................Feb. 23, '30
Owen, Wm. L .................Aug. 12, '22
Parker, David N ........... Mar. 14, '33
Parks, Dan
L.June 14, '37

Lodge
No.
Nevada ................ 13
La Fayette .......... 126
Golden State ......358
Solano ..................229
Alcatraz ..............244
Las Palmas ........366
Doric ....................216
Hollywood ..........355
Santa Ana ..........241
Vesper .................. 84
Clay .:..................:.101
Lassen .................. 149
Mission ................169
Pasadena ..............272
Francis K. Shattuck ..................571
Plowman, Alfred R. ........Jan.17, '30' Consuelo ..............325
Porter, Fredd ................Aug. 29, '33 Hartley ....._.........199
Quilty, Frank E ....,............Feb. 1, '33 Friendship ..........210
Quirk, John T .....................Jan. 8; '36 Parnassus ............388
Rawlings, Levi ..............July 11, '33 Northern Light .. 190
Reeves, Irving W ...........Sept. 1, '36 Santa Barbara ....192
Reinhold, Peter W .........July 16, '37 Marin .................. 191
Righetti, Robert ....._.......Mar. 9, '18 Pentalpha ............202
Riley, Perry M ...............Feb. 22, '37 Lakeshore ............551
Rumbek, J. Wm.............Mar. 27, '37 Mt. Jackson ........295
Rummelsburg, Alex.....July 10, '33 Oxnard ................341
Russett, George McC.......Feb. 2, '34 Beverly Hills ......528
Songster, Donald ..............Oct. 4, '32 Mendocino ....._...179
Sarwine, Christian H ...June 10, '36 Monrovia ~...........308
Schlichting, Martin ...... May 16, '35 Seaport ................550
Scott, Walter L .................Apr. 1, '34 Burlingame ........400
Sebree, Charles H ......... Mar. 21, '36 Pacific Grove ...... 331
Senestrari, Jacob T .......Mar. 27, '33 Monterey ............217
Seymour, Milton ..............Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ..............409
Shaw, Rupert .......,...,...... Nov. 4, '34 Evergreen .....- ....259
Smith, Charles ................Sept. 2, '31 Georgetown ........ 25
Smith, Roland A ......_.....Jan. 29, '27 Callayomi ............282
Smith, William C...........Apr. 25, '28 Oakland ..............188
Smith, Wm. T ...................July 3, '37 Yount .................. 12
Sniffen, Samuel T ...........Jan. 31, '33 West Lake ..........392
Soulier, Joseph .............. Feb. 18, '35 Mount Moriah .... 44
Standeford, Wm. B ....... Nov. 12, '29 Live Oak ............ 61
Stroud, George McD.......June 2, '37 Vacaville .............. 134
Swedberg, Eric ..............Oct. 19, '29 Reading ................254
Taylor, George McC.....July 14, '25 Excelsior ............ Hi6
Theiss, Henry D.............Jan. 27, '34 Washington ........ 20
Thomas, William E .......,Apr. 27, '33 San Diego ............ 35
Thompson, John W .......Aug.11, '34 Caledonia ............486
Travelli, Joseph ............Sept. 24, '32 Oakdale ...............275
Traverse, John ................May 7, '36 Evening Star ...... 186
Trost, John H ................. Mar. 15, '32 Ferndale .............-193
Tucker, Ira W ................. May 12, '33 San Jose .............. 10
Umbsen, Henry P ...........July 13, '35 California ............ 1
Viles, Charleton 'H ......... Oct. 24, '29 Abell ............:........146

c.:...:........

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
Nevada City ....68
Sebastopol ......73
Los Angeles .... 73
Vallejo ............75
Oakland .., .......71
Fresno .....,........68
San Francisco..91
Hollywood ......76
Santa Ana ......70
Red Bluff ........80
Dutch Flat ......75
Susanville ........71
San Francisco.. 78
Pasadena ..........90
Berkeley ..........68
E.scondido ........84
Lakeport ..........78
San Jose ..........84
San Francisco..84
Mill ville ..........70
Santa Barbara 77
San Rafael ......78
Los Angeles ....85
Oakland ..........66
Guerneville ......78
Oxnard ............83
Beverly Hills ..74
Mendocino ......81
Monrovia ........77
San Francisco..64
Burlingame ......64
Pacific Grove.. 76
Monterey ........73
Honolulu ..........67
Riverside ........ 73
Georgetown ....77
Middletown ....77
Oakland ..........77
Napa .........:......82
Los Angeles ....82
San Francisco..81
Oakland ..........70
Vacaville ........ 73
Redding ..........82
San Frailcisco..75
Sacramento ....60
San Diego ........83
Bakersfield ......72
Oakdale ............75
Etna ..................73
Ferndale ..........83
San Jose ...........83
San Francisco.. 70
Ukiah ................80

377

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Vorsanger, Edward A ...June 10, '37 Martinez .............. 41 Martinez ..........69
Waite, Fred ....................July 16, '35 · Delano ..................309 Delano ..............65
Ward, Kenneth L ........... Nov. 16, '35 Howard ........._..... 37 Yreka · ..............78
Watkins, David K......... Nov. 29, '31 Paul Revere ........462 San Francisco..65
Welch, George H .............May 8, '37 Union .................... 58 Sacramento ....76
Weston, Frank ............'....Mar. 4, '33 St. Helena .......... 93 St. Helena ......78
White, Frank ..................Mar. 1, '36 Nevada ................ 13 Nevada City ,...91
White, William E .........Mar. 10, '35 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ......80
Whiteside, William ........Dec. 5, '35 Amity ..................370 San Francisco..73
Wigginton, James W .....]uly 15, '29 S. W. Hackett....574 San Diego ......80
·1nrn 11,u 1 1
Wilhelm, Frederic G....... Oct. 25, '27 La Parfaite
Union .............. 17 San Francisco...83
Willard, Thomas ....;..... Aug. 23, '27 Petaluma ............~180 Petaluma' ..........76
Williams, Arthur V ....... Apr. 15, '37 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco..63
Oakland ..........65
Williams, William J .........May 8, '32 Fortitude .............
Wilson, Charles ............ Sept. 22, '32 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco..69
Wilson, George .............. Mar. 31, '36 Fraternity ............399 San Jose .::.......72
Witcosky, John A ......... Sept. 16, '30 Amity ..................370 San Francisco..58
Wood, Uriah S ...............Aug.21, '31 Mount Oso ..........460 Tracy ................79
Yarrington, James T .....Feb. 26, '29 University ..........394 Los Angeles ....75

:624

WOMEN, 151.
Albrecht, Ruth R. ............Jan. 5, '33
Anderson, Hilda C......... Oct. 28, '34
Appleton, Minnie P ......... Aug. 1, '36
Archer, Phella E ............. Mar. 2, '34
Armantage, Theresa A .....Jan. 5, '19
Atwood, Ida !......_.........Sept. 7, '31
Bane, Annabell E ...........July 20, '32
Bane, Florence A ...........Nov.13, '29
Barnes, Elaine G...............July 7, '34
Barnes, Margaret M ....... Oct. 26, '36
Bartholomew,
Helen S. .................~..Mar. 21, '35
Barton, Annie N .............Aug. 27, '33
Beall, Iola H ...................May 26, '36 '
Becker, Elizabeth A. ........Jan. 5, '31
Bemis, Ellen J .................]une 26, '29
Berge, Lilly B...............'Sept. 30, '26
Bernstein, Cornelia ......June 26, '24
Blinn, Sophia W .............Jan. 20, '30
Bolting, Isadore L ...........Dec. 29, '33
Bradley, Nannie ............ Apr. 30, '25
Broughton, Anne E ......... Sept. 6, '34
Brown, Lima C ............. May 25, '34
Burnett, Ethlan R ............,Feb. 9, '36
Bush, Lotta A ................. Aug. 28, '37
Carney, Nellie ...........~...... Apr. 8, '36
Cass, Mary E .....................July 7, '28
Cilssidy, Lottie ................May 30, '33
Casterline, Mary A ......:Apr. 10, '34
Cavender, Mary 0 .........Mar. 18, '37
Chapman, Magnolia W ........................Mar. 20, '37
Clark, Minnie A ...............Jan. 6, '37

Average Age, 73.39
Selma ...............:....277
Crockett ..............139
Live Oak ............ 61
Landmark ............253
Needles ............~....326
Et Cajon Valley 576
Orland ..................265
Rockridge ........ ~...468
Liberty ...:............299
Golden Gate ........ 30

Selma ...............:Bl
San Francisco..59
Oakland ..:.......6()
Esparto :.......:...~
Needles .:..........80
El Cajon ...._ ..:72
Orland ..............70
Oakland . ..........7t
Santa Clara ....67
San Francisco.,8~

Mt. Jackson ........295 Guerneville .'.....77.
Truckee ................200. Truckee ............85
King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco..62
Santa Ana ..........241 Santa Ana ........8d
Dinuba ................385 Dinuba _ ...........81
West Gate ~-~..:......335 Los Angeles ·....Bl
Berkel~y · ....-.... "~-~.363 Berkeley .:........7S.
Truckee ·:.•.,..........200 Truckee :.........:.77
Silver Gate ..........296 San Diego :... ~78
Oriental ..............144 San Francisco..69
Magnolia' ..............242 Santa Barbara 81
Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco..81
Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ............~.62
King Solomon's ..260 · San Ftancisco..63
Chico ;.......:..:........ lll Chico ...........:.::.85
Sisson .:................310 Mt. Shasta ......81·
Silver Gate ..........296 San Diego ~ ....76
Oceanside ............381 Oceanside ~.......64
Coalinga .:....;.......387 Coalinga ......,_66
Union ..."'·':"•"""""" 58 Sacrament(> ...:'..75.
Alpha .,..~_,;..,........:..f:n.. Richmond ·.....::.66

378

GRAND LODG~ 61" CAL!F'ORN'!A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Coar, Lydia E ...;.._.........Feb. 11, '34
Collister, Mary L .............Jan. 19, '30
Conway, Sarah B...........Aug. 26, '36
Cope, Ida L.....~.............. Nov. 19, '32
Copeland, Wilhelmina ..July 11, '32
Cornell, Mabel ................Dec. 14, '35
Crill, Flora A ........_.........Dec. 1, '28
Davis, Fannie ................June24, '34
Davis, Grace G.................July 25, '16
Dickson, Alice W .........June 11, '21
Drew, Minnie ................Oct. 20, '33
Dunn, Annie C...............June 22, '25
Elder, Ellena R. ....._..... Sept. 18, '28
Ellis, Mildred A ............~Mar. 30, '34
Fake, Lena S ................... Aug. 26, '37
Felton, Mary M .................Oct. 3, '34
Ferguson, Hattie M .......May 25, '34
Ferguson, Ruth R. ..........May 26, '34
Fetrow, Dora L;..............May 11, '35
Fitting, Alice M ............. May 27, '33
Fortriede, Auguste E ....~Apr. 24, '25
Foster, Elizabeth M.........July 8, '36
Fo~ter, Nellie G........._..June 21, '30
Garnett, Katherine M ... Apr. 13, '36
Goodman, Orpheus O ..... Oct. 20, '32
Gordon, Emma ·····-······-June 27, '36
Gordon, Isabel C.....- ......Feb. 12, '28
Grant, Lillian A ................. Oct. 6, '32
Greaves, Margaret !.......Oct. 18, '32
Gregg, Letitia ..................Dec. 4, '32
Gregory, Emily ................June 6, '33
Griffith, Rose L ............... Mar. 26, '36
Halek, Albertine C.........Dec. 29, '32
Harris, Louise C.......,.....Feb. 19, '33
Hattersley, Emily K .....Aug. 19, '33
Hazard, Marie ..............Aug. 10, '25
Hibbard, Elizabeth ...... Mar. 22, '30
Honey, Alice ..................July 22, '34
Hughes, Laura H .........Mar. 11, '33
Hutchinson, Sara J .......June 11, '34
Irvine, Adelaide H ........... Nov. 4, '31
Jack, Mary ....- ..................June 1, '31
Jackson, May R ............. Aug. 27, '25
James, Jennie L ............. Nov. 19, '33
Jenkins, Mary E.............May 21, '31
Johns, Sarah .................... Sept. 6, '36
Johnson, Jane H ...............Jan. 6, '34
Jones, Camilla T ....... _......Apr. 8, '34
Keenan, Effie ..................July 17, '33
Kellogg, Lillie F ......._......Dec. 2, '30
Kelso, Katherine McD...Apr. 26, '35
Kidd, Millie A...............Aug. 21, '32
Kimball, Annette C.........Aug. 3, '32
Kimball, Camelia L ....... Sept. 19, '26

Lodge
No.
Alexander
Graham Bell ....595
Vifruvius ............145
Olivet ..................205
Charter Rock ......410
Golden Gate ........ 30
Charity ................362
Valley ..................135
Mount Moriah .... 44
Naval .................... 87
Pacific .................. 136
Unity ....................368
Oroville ................103
Corinthian .......... 9
Mission ................169
Golden Gate ........ 30
Mt. Davidson ......481
Silver Gate ..........296
Sotoyome ............ 123
Corinthian .......... 9
San Bernardino 348
Crockett ..............139
Hawaiian ............ 21
Berkeley ..............363
Silveyville ..........201
Fraternity ............399
Occidental .......... 22
Carquinez ............337
Georgetown ........ 25
Apollo ..................396
Durant ..................268
Concord ..............117
Enterprise ............ 70
Victory ................474
Pacific .................. 136
Henry Clay ........ 95
San Jose .............. 10
Oakland ..............188
Keystone .............. 161
Phoenix ..............178
Liberty ................299
Sacramento ........ 40
McKinley ............347
Lompoc ................262
Live Oak ............ 61
Durant ...;_..........268
East Belt ............391
Presidio ..............354
Occidental ............ 22
Jewell ..................374
Chula Vista ........626
Redwood City ....168
Amity ..................370
·Enterprise ............ 70
San Francisco ....360

Town

Age

Los Angeles ...-85
Bloomfield _....83
Corning :...........78
Berkeley ..........77
San Francisco..64
Campbell ..........54
Linden ..............70
San Francisco..81
Vallejo ............83
San Francisco..77
Glendale ..........77
Oroville ............90
Marysville ......78
San Francisco..75
San Francisco..84
San Francisco..62
San Diego ........65
Healdsburg ......80
Marysville ......68
San B'rn'rdino 67
San Francisco..60
Honolulu ..........68
Berkeley .....- ...74
Dixon ..............73
San Jose ....- ....83
San Francisco..58
Crockett ..........63
Georgetown ' ....63
Alameda ..........57
Berkeley ..........81
Sacramento ......69
Yuba City ........71
San Francisco.)3
San Francisco..62
Sutter Creek ..77
San Jose ..........67
Oakland ............80
Milton ..............78
San B'rn'rdino 82
Santa Clara......75
Sacramento ....88
Richmond ........70
Lompoc ............78
Oakland ..........75
Berkeley ..........67
Tuolumne ........81
San Francisco..71
San Francisco..67
San Francisco..60
Chula Vista ....81
Redwood City 72
San Francisco..70
Yuba City ........75
San Francisco..72

Name
Admitted
Kimball, Lila M............. Mar. 27, '33
Klevesahl, Catharine ....Aug. 27, '35
Knight, Frances H .........May 21, '36
Lamb, Julia E................. Oct. 23, '36

Lodge
No.
Mount Moriah .... 44
Hermann ............127
California ............ 1
King David's ......209

Langworth, Martha E ...July 23, '26
Laufman, Anna ............Aug. 27, '24
Lightner, Sarah J .............Oct. 9, '28
Lindsley, Luella P ......... Aug. 16, '34
Long, Mary A ...................Apr. 8, '37
Longfellow, Sarah J ..... Nov. 15, '31
Mann, Bertha M .............June 10, '33
Martien, Alice ................Aug. 31, '33
Mase, Eleanor R. ............May 22, '36
Matthews, Louise L ......... Aug. 7, '22
Mayfield, Mary J ........... Sept. 22, '35
McDowell, Alice M ....... Mar. 24, '32
McGuire, Mary ..............July 14, '26
McKinney, Daisy .......... May 22, '36
McLean, Lucy A. ..........Nov. 28, '34
Mercer, Viola ~.................Oct. 17, '34
Miller, Esther J ...............Mar. 5, '34
Moore, Mary S .................May 9, '33
Myers, Sallie P ................. Mar. 2, '37
Nevitt, Laura V ...............Oct. 31, '36
Newman, Susanna ....:.....June 4, '29
Nielson, Mary V ...........Nov. 21, '27
Noble, Grace F .................J uly 4, '32
Nutter, Martha L...........Mar. 25, '23
Pankow, Catherine ........Apr. 29, '29
Peairs, Lillian W ......_...Feb. 11, '35
Perry, Mary C.................May 12, '30
Phreaner, Mary D .........Aug. 15, '37
Rackerby, Elizabeth ....Mar. 29, '30
Rickard, Jennie S .............Dec. 7,'32
Rogers, Leonora ..............Oct. 6, '25

San Pedro ..........332
Sincerity ..............132
Starr King :.........344
Morning Star .... 68
Friendship .........210
Truckee ..............-200
Naval .................... 87
Chico ................- ..111
Yount ..............,... 12
Yount .................. 12
Alpha ....................431
Alcatraz .............~244
Alcatraz ..............244
Redwood City ....168
Excelsior ............166
Pasadena .........._272
Oriental ..............144
Redwood City ....168
Arlington ............414
Hollywood ..........355
Antioch ......-........175
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Trinity ................ 27
East Gate ...........290
Crockett ..............139
Normal Heights 632
Mendocino ..........179
Amity ..................370
Crockett ..........-..139
Parnassus ............388
King David's .....209

Root, Emma F ...................Dec. 2, '32
Roscoe, Nettie P ...............]an.13, '32
Rownan, Matilda .......... Aug. 11, '36
Pussell, Elvira H .............Feb. 2, '34
Sandell, Selma S ......_.....Dec. 31, '31
Schmidt, Ella M............. Mar. 18, '34
Seymour, Laura ..............Feb. 1, '36
Smay, Madge M.............June 11, '36
Smith, Minnie A.............July 12, '37
Sniffen, Eugenia B...........Jan. 31, '33
Snyder, Amanda G.........Apr. 13, '37
5oale, Carl B...................May 15, '32
Starbuck, Catherine S ... Feb. 24, '32
Stewart, Mary .............. Mar. 12, '32
Stroud, Laura L ...............June 2, '37
Teall, Lena ....................Aug. 22, '32
Terrell, Cynthia E ......... Sept. 15, '27
Thomas, Ida .....- ............Nov. 23, '32

Occidental ............ 22
Oroville ................103
Sunnyside ............577
Beverly Hills ......528
Martinez .............. 41
Charter Rock ......410
Honolulu ..............409
Alcatraz ..............244
Smyrna ................532
West Lake ..........392
Bakersfield ..........224
Corona ................324
James A. Foshay 641
Concord ..............117
Vacaville .......,....- 134
Golden Gate ........ 30
Yosemite .............. 99
Bear Mountain .. 76

379
Town
Age
San Francisco..66
San Francisco..81
San Francisco..84
San Luis
Obispo ..........65
San Pedro ..;...fJ7
Greenville ........86
San Francisco..77
Stockton ..........71
San Jose ..........82
Truckee .....,......70
Vallejo ............69
Chico ........;.......84
Napa ............... ,64
Napa ................82
Richmond ........65
Oakland ..........61
Oakland ..........84
Redwood City..62
San F'rancisco..61
Pasadena ........82
San Francisco..70
Redwood City 74
Los Angeles ....78
Hollywood ......76
Antioch ............75
Santa Cruz ......76
Weaverville ....77
Los Angeles ....82
San Francisco..72
San Diego ......68
Mendocino ......70
San Francisco..76
San Francisco..79
San Francisco..82
San Luis
Obispo ..........78
San Francisco..72
Oroville ............66
Los Angeles ....72
Beverly Hills ..73
Martinez ....- ...71
Berkeley ..........73
Honolulu ........59
Oakland ..........70
Ceres ................73
Los Angeles ....81
Bakersfield ._...65
Pasadena _......80
Los Angeles ....66
Sacramento ....67
Vacaville ..........64
San Francisco..74
Merced ............82
Angels Camp ..68

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.Name

Admitted
~mpson, Celia ............Dec.16, '33
Torr, Georgina R. ............Jan. 14, '33
Vale, Olive B...................June 18, '36
Walton; Ida M........... _ ...June22, '25
Weigel, May L............... Apr. 10, '32
West, Eva L..............~-...Aug. 9, '23
West, Henrietta B.........May 10, '30
Wetzel, Laura C. ............Dec.18, '35
Wilcox, Edith ··-··--····••·May 3, '36
Williams, Lillias ..............May 8, '32
Wilson, ..Maryan ............ Mar. 31, '36
Withers, Phoebe ............June 13, '27
Yarrini:ton,, Grace M.....F~b. 26, '29

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Eden .................-113 San Leandro ..66
Elmhurst ............610 Oakland ..........71
Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco..80
Oakland ......... _ .. 188 Oakland .......... 78
Marin ····-···---- 191 San Rafael ...... 72
Mission ................ 169 San Francisco..83
Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ......85
Presidio .............. 354 San Francisco..75
Durant .................268 . Berkeley .......... 70
Fortitude ............ 624 Oakland ..........66
Fraternity ............399 San Jose .......... 71
East Belt ............391 Tuolumne ........84
University ..........394 Los Angeles ....67

Departures during the year, 5
Name
Age
Lodge
No.
Ccx,>ley, Aaron R. .........- ................ 69 Presidio ................354
Leach, William H ........................... 73 Bakersfield ......... 224
Peppin, Jennie ................................ 59 Golden West ... _ 455
Peppin, Raymond C.....:.................62 Golden West ......455
Sessions, Charles B.................. ~ .....83 Richmond ............375

Date
Jan. 30, '36
June 7, '37
April 24, '37
April 24, '37
Sept. 26, '35

Admitted during the year, Men, 37. Average Age, 73.72
Name
Admitted
Anderson, Charles A ..... Nov.19, '36
Benjamin, Wm. F ..... ,~ ......May 1, '37
Bird, Robert B................... Dec. 6, '36
Buckstein, Meyer ..........Dec. 18, '36
Garfagni, Peter ...- ........Oct. 31, '36

Lodge
No.
Tehachapi ............313
Santa Rosa .......... 57
Mission ................ 169
Abell .................... 146
Speranza Italiana ....................219
Carpenter, John J.......... _ May 2, '37 Mendocino ..........179
Cavender, Isaac !........... Mar. 18, '37 Coalinga ..............387
Daigle, Lee ···-········-···-May 26, '37 Westwood .......... 501
Daniels, George S ........... Aug. 1, '37 Riverbank ............459
Dillman, Thomas M....... May 16, '37 Norwalk .............. 315
Duncalf, Walter ............ Oct. 28, '36 Arbuckle .............. 182
Finigan, John P ............. Dec.12, '36 Santa Paula ........291
Hartin, Robert ..................Jan. 8, '37 Arcata .................. 106
Henry, Wm. P ...............July 10, '37 Yount .................. 12
Huff, William J ..........._.Apr. 8, '37 San Jose .............. 10
Isaac, Adolph ..................Jan. 31, '37 Doric ....................216
Jackson, John F .............May 16, '37 • Golden Gate ........ 30
Kerr, Charles A ...........,.Aug. 25, '37 Morgan Hill ......463
Kirsch, Louis C............. Mar. 20, '37 South San Francisco .......,.........212
Kline, Benj. G.................Feb.12, 137 Laurel .................245
Leach, William H ...........Feh. 28, '37 Bakersfield ..........224
McAlpine, David J ...........Oct. l, '36 South Gate ..........320
Moore, ~ward A ........... }4ay 1, '37 Nevada ................ 13
Nevitt, Charles E ........... Oct. 31, '36 Hollywood ..........355
Parks, Dan C...................June 14, '37 Francis K. Shattuck .................. 571
Quirk, John T .....................Jan. 8, '36 Parnassus ............388
Re.eves, Irving W .....- ...Sept. l, '36 Santa Barbara .... 192

Town
Age
Tehacha.pi ........74
Santa Rosa .....:79
San Francisco.. 74
Ukiah ..............61
San Francisco .. 76
Mendocino ...... 78
Coalinga ........ h71
Westwood ........64
Riverbank ........ 74
Norwalk ..........88
Arbuckle ..........79
Santa Paula .... 73
Arcata .............. 59
Napa ................80
San Jose ..........72
San Francisco.. 76
San Francisco.. 79
Morgan Hill....70
San Francisco ..61
Willows ..........75
Bakersfield ......13
Los Angeles ....84
Nevada City ....68
Hollywood ......76
Berkeley .......... 68
San Francisco ..84
Santa Barbara 77

Name
Admitted
Reinhold, Peter W .........July 16, '37
Riley, Perry M...............Feb. 22, '37
Rumbek, J. William...... Mar. 27, '37
Smith, Isaac W ............... Apr. 21, '37
Smith, William T .............July 3, '37
Stroud, George McD .......June 2, '37
Vorsanger, Edward A. ..June 10, '37
Welch, George H .............May 8, '37
Williams, Arthur V ....... Apr. 15, '37
Whorff, Franklin T ....... Dec. 14, '36

Lodge
No.
Marin .................. 191
Lakeshore ............551
Mt. Jackson ........295
Tuolumne ............ 8
Yount .................. 12
Vacaville ..............134
Martinez .............. 41
Union .................. 58
Oriental ................144
Bakersfield ..........224

381
Town
Age
San Rafael ...... 78
Oakland ..........66
Guerneville ......78
Sonora ......._.....77
Napa ................82
Vacaville ..........73
Martinez ..........69
Sacramento ....76
San Francisco ..63
Bakersfield ......73

Ad~itted during the year, Women, 16. Average Age, 74.25
Name
Admitted
Barnes, Margaret M..... Oct. 26, '36
Bush, Lotta A .................Aug. 28, '37
Cavender, Mary O.........Mar. 18, '37
Chapman, Magnolia W . ...................... Mar. 20, '37
Clark, .Minnie A ...............] an. 6, '37
Fake, Lena S ...................Aug. 26, '37
Johns, Sarah ·····- ·············Sept. 6, '36
Lamb, Julia E ................. Oct. 23, '36

Lodge
No.
Golden Gate ........ 30
King Solomon's ..260
Coalinga ..............387

Town
Age
San Francisco..83
San Francisco ..63
Coalinga ..........66

Union .................. 58
Alpha .........;..........431
Golden Gate ........ 30
East Belt ............391
King David's ......209

Long, Mary A.....:.............Apr. 8, '37
Myers, Sallie P ................. Mar. 2, '37
Nevitt, Laura V............. Oct. 31, '36
Phreaner, Mary D ......... Aug. 15, '37
Robinson, Betsy ............Sept. 11, '36
Smith1 Minnie A. ............July 12, '37
Snyder, Amanda G.........Apr. 13, '37
Stroud, Laura L ...............J une 2, '37

Friendship ..........210
Arlington ............414
Hollywood ..........355
Amity .................. 370
Golden Gate ........ 30
Smyrna ................ 532
Bakersfield ..........224
Vacaville ..............134

Sacramento ....75
Richmond .........66
San Francisco..84
Tuolumne ........81
San Luis
Obispo ..........65
San Jose ..........82
Los Angeles .... 78
Hollywood ...... 76
San Francisco ..76
San Francisco ..91
Ceres ................73
Bakersfield ...... 65
Vacaville ..........64

Died during the year, Men, 25. Average Age, 78.24
Name
Admitted
Akerly, James C. S .........July 26, '31
Arnold, Charles E ......... May 30, '36
Barnett, Joseph ..............July 23, '33
Beaver, Romanus H .......Apr. 27, '35
Buckstein, Meyer .......... Dec. 18, '36
Cave, Daniel ................ Sept. 17, '35
Cha.se, Wallis S ............. Mar. 19, '22
Cole, Geo. W •..................June 23, '33
Downs, Benj. F ...............June 28, '32
Foster, Henry W •..............July 8, '36
Godfrey, James ..............Jan.13, '32
· Harms, Hermann .. ,..... Mar. 16, '31
Herndon, Edward M ..... Mar.19, '33

Lodge
No.
Live Oak ............ 61
West Lake ..........392
Livingston ..........658
Olive Branch ......269
Abell .........:..........146
West Gate ..........335
Turlock ................ 395
San Benito .........211
Silver Gate ..........296
Hawaiian ............ 21
Nevada ................ 13
Acacia ..................438
Mountain View ..194

Jack, David ......................June 1, '31
Libby, Charles F .............Dec. 18, '31
McDonald, Frank ........Nov. 21, '26
Potter, Loyal A ..............,Jan. 21, '30
Smith, Isaac W ...............Apr. 21, '37
Stevens, Charles D ........... Apr. 6, '32

McKinley ............347
Mission ................169
South Gate ..........320
Union .................. 58
Tuolumne ····- ····- 8
Santa Rosa ........ 57

Town
Age
Oakland .......... 76
Los Angeles ....67
Livingston ......80
Tulare ..............79
Ukiah ................60
Los Angeles ....96
Turlock ............87
Hollister ..........87
San Diego ......71
Honolulu ........ 74
Nevada City .... 69
Los Angeles ....84
Mountain
View ............75
Richmond ........ 73
San Francisco.. 78
Los Angeles ....83
Sacramento .....78
Sonora ..............77
Santa Rosa ......86

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

382

Name
Admitted
Trenchel, August F ..... Sept. 18, '25
Wallace, Robert G.........June 23, '34
Wells, Thomas W .........Aug.10, '36
Whitaker, George A .......Jan. 30, '32
Whorff, Franklin T .......Dec. 14, '36
Williams, Clayton E.....Dec. 15, '35

Lodge
No.
Live Oak ··········- 61
Petaluma ............180
Tuolumne ............ 8
Caledonia ............486
Bakersfield .........224
Enterprise .......... 70

Town
Age
Oakland ....._...86
Petaluma ····-····80
Sonora ····-········80
Bakersfield ......81
Bakersfield ......73
Yuba City ........76

Died during the year, Women, 25. Average Age, 79.16
Name
Admitted
Augustine, Jean D ...........Sept. 2, '35
Bell, Florence C..............July 30, '33
Beuzeville, Marian C.......Aug. 5, '35
Brown, Rosalind V .......Mar. 27, '24
Carey, Laura E .............Sept. 16, '31
Carlson, Laura L .............Feb. 10, '20
Cohn, Sarah .................... Sep~. 8, '22
Cowley, Cerita J ...........Sept. 18, '25
Crawley, Nellie G.........Dec. 19, '27
Crystal, Agnes .............,Nov. 20, '32
de Haven, Flora L ...........Feb. 3, '35
Felter, Eliza D .............._.July 24, '23
Heitman, Evelyn S ......... Apr. 3, '33
Hill, Barbara M .............July 26, '27
Knight-White, Alda B ...Mar. 6, '34
Lillie, Amelia F ............... May 23, '32
Mast, Frances C.............Aug. 31, '12
Mills, Kate D .................Mar. 21, '28
Parks, Rosa W ............... May 12, '36
Phillips, Sarah J .............Feb. 22, '32
Robinson, Betsy ............ Sept. 11, '36
Shearin, Eliza ................Mar. 16, '31
Stevens, Isabella A ...........Apr. 6, '32
Stevenson, Sarah ..........June 30, '33
Surface, Emma ............Aug. 19, '16

Date Began
Dec. 7, 1928
April,
1934
April 29, 1937
Sept. 28, 1932
June,
1936
Feb. 28, 1931
Oct. 28, 1934
Sept. 28, 1934
Nov.,
1935
Aug. 29, 1936
May,
1929
April,
1933
June,
1933
June,
1925
July,
1931
Dec. 28, 1934

Lodge
No.
Marin ····-·········-191
Standard ······-······440
Long Beach ........327
Natoma ................ 64
San Pedro ..........332
Excelsior .....:......166
Los Angeles ........ 42
Berkeley ······--·····363
Willits ..................365
South San Francisco ·········-······.212
South Gate ..........320
King Solomon's ..260
Union .................. 58
Brooklyn ..............225
California ............ 1
Woodland .........._156
Yosemite •............. 99
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Yount .................. 12
Mission ................169
Golden Gate ........ 30
Pajaro .....,...........•110
Santa Rosa .......... 57
California ··········- 1
Ione ...................... 80

Town
Age
San Rafael ......80
Oakland ..........76
Long Beach ....61
Folsom City ....82
San Pedro ......66
San Francisco..74
Los Angeles ....80
Berkeley ..........81
Willits ..............77
San Francisco..69
Los Angeles ....73
San Francisco..75
Sacramento ....81
Oakland ..........74
San Francisco.. 78
Woodland ._.....85
Merced ............92
Santa Cruz ......77
Napa ................85
San Francisco..83
San Francisco..91
Watsonville ....82
Santa Rosa ......80
San Francisco..93
Ione ...............•..84

Outside Relief-Adults
Monthly
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Mrs. J. J. Terry.......................... Western Star No. 2..........$25.00
Sarah C. Vermilya..........._,...._Tehama No. 3.............-·-···· 20.00
Chas. W. H eyt.._············-··········Corinthian No. 9......·-······· 25.00
Arthur M. Stillwell................- .. Washington No. 20......,..... 30.00
Mary F. Robertson..•.................Washington No. 20............ 30.00
Mary J. Wilgeroth.................... Hawaiian No. 21................ 25.00
Mary Ellen Day............... ~ .......... Occidental No. 22-............ 15.00
Madeline Torry ··········-···········Golden Gate No. 30............ 25.00
Cyrus Field Willard.................. San Diego No. 35.............. 25.00
Maud L. Egan........•................... San Diego No. 35 ..........~ ... 25.00
Silas W. Williams.....:................ Forbestown No. 50............ 30.00
Benj. George R9ss ..................-Ione No. 80- ..- .................... 15.00
John A. LundeY--······················ Yolo No. 81.....,............,,.._ 30.00
Frances M. Jack..........._........... Chico No. 111......•........•..._. 30.00
Robert A. Martin...................... Eden No. 113.....,..._...;.....~ 25.00
Leon Jacobs ··········-·····-··-····:...Fidelity No. 120.................. 25.00

Date Began
Dec. 28, 1934
Jan. 28, 1935
August, 1930
June 28, 1934
June,
1933
May 28, 1935
Jan.
1933
Oct.
5, 1934
Dec.,
1930
July,
1936
March, 1!134
April 28, 1935
Nov.,
1932
Feb.,
1931
Nov.,
1933
April,
1933
Feb.,
1927
Feb.,
1930
July,
1935
July,
1934
July,
1927
Jan.
1934
April 28, 1937
May 28, 1937
July,
1936
Nov.,
1930
June,
1929
March, 1936
Jan.,
1929
Jan. 13, 1937
April,
1936
March, 1934
Aug. 28, 1934
Feb.
9, 1937
Jan.,
1936
Dec. 28, 1934
Aug.,
1935
June,
1934
Sept.,
1932
March, 1929
July,
1934
April 28, 1937
May 19, 1937
Sept.,
1933
Jan.,
1936
June,
1933
Oct.,
1932
Feb.,
1933
Aug.,
1933
Jan. 28, 1935
May 19, 1937
May 30, 1937
July,
1931
June 28, 1935

383

Name
Lodge
Allowance
Florence Jacobs ····-····-············Fidelity No. 120.................. 25.00
Robert F. Green........................ CuJ.Ttis No. 140.................... 20.00
Kittie May White....._............... Excelsior No. 166....- ........ 10.00
Frances C. Phillips.·-········-········Phoenix No. 178................ 20.00
Martha L. Fortin......................Oakland No. 188..............:. 30.00
Oscar B. Lauff................- .......... Marin No. 191..................- 25.00
Stella M. Jewell........................ Rio Vista No. 208.............. 30.00
Emma I. McManus.................. King Davids No. 209........ 20.00
Addie Cohn ·····-·········-··········-·-Monterey No. 217............. 30.00
Kathryn Steele ····-···•-············-Iny0 No. 221........................ 30.00
Mrs. Ella Barber........................ Roseville No. 222......;......... 12.00
Harvey R. Lacy......................--Solano No. 229_.................. 25.00
Mrs. Prince L. Tople............- .. Santa Ana No. 241............ 20.00
Mrs. Iva B. Llewellyn....._..... _Reading No. 254................ 30.00
Richard Burrows ··········-····-····Penrhyn No. 258................ 25.00
Ida Schwartz ···········•··············--Le Progres De L'Oceanie
No. 371 ............................ 25.00
Cora Lee Bennett...................... So. California No. 278...... 25.00
Clara Scott ·········-----···-··--•So. California No. 278...... 15.00
Lucy V. Parr.....·-···-·········-······Winnedumah No. 287........ 25.00
Ruby L. Bunger......................- .. Ontario No. 301.................. 25.00
Walter J. Smith..........'................ Sisson No. 310..•................. 25.00
Lizzie Kingsley ..•....................... Hollenbeck No. 319............ 30.00
Benj. N. Powers....._................. Hollenbeck No. 319..........- 30.00
Mrs. Rose Abrahaln.................. Starr King No. 344............ 30.00
Ingvel 0. Nielsen and wife...... Fruitvale No. 336.............. 50.00
Margaret K. Williams..............Fruitvale No. 336.............._ 30.00
H. Truitt ....................................Fruitvale No. 3.36...............• 30.00
Sidney Clack ··········-·················-Palo Alto No. 346.............. 15.00
John M. Keeley.......................... Sequoia No. 349....-.:.......... 30.00
Gilbert F. Rhoades .................... Palestine No. 351.............. 15.00
Raymond A. Gardner................ Golden State No. 358........ 25.00
Clarence S. Biser and wife...... San Francisco No. 360...... 22.50
Mrs. Wm. Huff ....._................... Ocean Park No. 369.......... 15.00
Everett A. Glencross................ Mizpah No. 378...•.............. 30.00
Theda R. Conaway.................... Huntington Beach No. 380 20.00
Mary W . Mackenzie.................. ];3ay View No. 401...........• 15.00 '
John M. Berdan and wife........ Elysian No. 418.................. 50.00
Earl H. Howard and wife........Elysian No. 418.................. 50.00
Manford E. Tucker.................. Midway No. 426.................. 20.00
George F. Geibel...........- ........... Fairmount No. 435 ............ 30.00
Jennie N. Hanlin....·--··-············Mt. Diablo No. 448............ 25.00
Raymond Peppin and wife...... Golden West No. 455 ........ 60.00
Gertrude C. Myers...............:.... Riverbank No. 459............ 20.00
Louis W. Hills............................Golden Rule No. 479.......... 30.00
Ellen S. Thomas........................ Eudid No. 519.................... 20.00
James F. Price............................ B~llflower No. 523 ............ 25.00
Herbert J . Middlemist..........._.Seal Rock No. 536............ 30.00
Albert H. Kimmeritz ................ Signal No. 543.:.:..............;. 20.00
Arthur G. Cartwright................E: San Diego No. 561........ 35.00
Lionel Compeigne ·-······--··-·····.lt San Diego No. 561...... 25.00
Wm. A. Maynes ..........................Escalon No. 591.................. 15.00
Harry L. Ramsay and wife...... Monte Vista No. 655.......... 30.00
Robert E. Mims and wife........ Citrol No. 656..............:........ 40.00·
C. A. Ryan.....................·--·-·-···Baldwin Park No. 660...... 20.00

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Superintendent-Covina
To the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
A few months ago I finished ten years of work at the Covina Home.
During that time 295 children have come to us and 294 young people have
P'l:ssed fro~ our do?rs out into the world. It has been a great privilege to
witness this procession of children coming to us in the time of their need
weakness, and often bitter misfortune; to have seen them grow and develo~
da;: by day until they were able in most cases to stand alone and go out on
their o':"n power .. Truly the Covina · Home, founded and sustained by the
generosity of California Masonry, has profoundly influenced the lives and
destinies of many a future man and woman.

remaining eleven have secured employment. This employment was secured in
many cases through the activity of officers of the Lodges or through the
Masonic Employment services.
What Graduates are Doing-In the five years ending in 1936 there
were graduated from the Home sixty boys and girls, averaging eighteen years
of age. Their present occupations are as _follows:
Students .................................................................-........................... 9
Secretarial W4)rk.............................................................................. 9
Telephone. QPt;rator~::-·····- ..................................,.................... ,...... 4
Other business pos1bons................................ _.............................. 9
Nurses, graduate...............................................................-......-...... 3
Mechanical tradet............................... ~.............................................. 7
Cosmetologists ............................................................................... _. 2
Housewives ........................................................................................ 12
Not lmown..................................... ~ .................................. ~................. 5
A number of these are already attaining marked success in their chosen
occupations. At least three of the boys are forging ahead toward executive
positions in business. The girls who have married are succeeding in that job,
showing that their life with us was good training for homemaking. None of
these young people, so far as we know, have been in trouble with the law, or
on relief. In other words they are taking their places successfuJ.ly in the
difficult conditions of modern life, despite the handicaps which surrounded
their early childhood. May we not believe that the Home has been instrumental
in helping them overcome these handicaps?
Getting Started-No matter how excellent their training while in the
Home, it is inevitable that there shall be a period of adjustment when they
step out into the world. The word we get from them after they have lived
under actual conditions outside is: "We never realized what we had in the
Home. You soon find out that the outside world is different, and much harder."
We feel that this is as it should be. If our young people go forth with a
plentiful supply of enthusiasm, vitality, and self confidence, they will ·be able
to survive the trials which they are bound to undergo in the process of getting
adjusted to the outside world.
The Individual vs. the Group-In the conduct of the Home it is our
constant aim to place the interests of the individual child first at all times. We
must ·be more concerned with the child's welfare than in the functioning of
the Home as a smooth running machine. However, i£ the individual in his
conduct goes too much counter to the general social patterns that are wholesome for the group, the best interests of the greater number may require his
removal, not as punishment, but as a matter of better adjustment, both for
him and the others. While occasionally there is a child who seems unable to
make progress in a large group, we believe that in most cases membership in
the larger number is a stimulus to the development of many desirable traits.
Children learn much from each other, and under proper conditions much that
is good. Comparison and competition are strong spurs to effort.
Variety of Methods-Ideally, a child-caring agency should have at its
command a sufficient variety of resources and expedients that it can meet the
needs of every child consigned to its care. We use the institutional home as
the :basis for our treatment, and we believe this serves best the requirements
of the greatest number; however, the use of outside care in mothers' own
homes, in foster homes, and in a few cases in hospitals, has certainly enlarged
the usefulness of our service to children .
Outside Care--In a number of instances a child who was not doing
well in the Home has been placed in a private foster home and there has
gotten along nicely. The success of this arrangement \lepends upon the care

As the Older Child Sees It-Recently when I was talking with some
of the older boys and girls, they made various expressions of what they
thoug.ht had. been the effect of life in the Home upon them. What they said
wa~. interesting, so . much so that I asked them to put their expressions in
writing. The following are quoted from what they wrote:
"Your life is changed when you come to the Home. You learn to
cooperate with others, to live harmoniously, and to do things for yourself."
"There is always a sense of security and safety that many private
homes lack. We also take part in the governing of the Home. It has
changed my lifd in many ways. My ideals have been raised very high."
"We are not burdened with the thought of where our next meal is
com.ing from, but ':"e're taught to be economical and not extravagant. The
Semor boys and girls are given a chance to earn money, to keep it on an
account, and draw from it when necessary to buy their clothes and other
things. It gives us good experience with money, for we can have no
more than wd earn. It gives us a personal pride, for we know , that the
clothes we wear and the things we have are really ours because we have
earned them."
"In showing visitors through the Home I have often found that they
were surprised because they expected something different. The things
that surprised them the most were : that we did not wear uniforms; that
the boys and girls eat together; that we go to public schools; that we are
happy. They often say 'Why, this is not like an institution; this is more
like a real home.' "
"One of the important
features of the Home is the choice to be our01
selves. I don't feel as though I were a wheel in some machine. I feel as
though whatever I want to do and be, I can do with me the boss. True,
there are rules and regulations-there must be some pattern to follow.
But almost every thought we get is our own. None is ever forced upon
us. I feel that the things I do are mine. I have all the freedom I need to
be the person I would most like to be."
From Dependency to Self Support-The main purpose of the Home is

~o take dependent children and change them by nurture and training into

independent men and momen. When they are little they must be completely
cared. for ; with each year of their growth they gain something in ability to
sustain themselves. The real test of what we are doing for them is to be
found in their success in self support, and in their usefulness to society after
they leave us. Measured iby this standard we feel that those who have left us
from year to year in the past have given a good account of their preparation
for life.
. Last June. seven.teen young people, nine girls and eight boys, were graduated
from the Covma High School ·and were returned either to relatives or to their
Lodges. Of these, six are attending business college or university; while the

385

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

with which the .placement is made and supervised after it is made. Recently
we had the case of a boy who got the "big head,'' as many boys do. In his case
the attack was so violent that he became a detriment and stumbling block to
others. He was placed on a dairy and poultry ranch, where there were no other
boys to show off to, and where there was plenty of hard work which he could
not escape. He stayed there a year and made good; now he is •back with us,
most appreciative of his opportunities in the Home and setting a fine example
to others.
At present we have under supervision of our social worker nine children in
foster homes, 26 children in their mothers' homes, and one child in an outside
hospital.
Vocational Guidance-During the past year for the first time we have
made use of expert advice in vocational guidance and counseling for our
students about to graduate. We secured the services, at moderate cost, of an
expert in this line. Under his direction a number of tests were given, the results
of which he studied and then personally advised each student as to the lines
they seemed best fitted to pursue successfully. We believe that advice of this
kind will tend to decrease the number of square pegs in round holes, of those
who select their vocation by the process of drifting.
Interested · Friends-Again this year as in the past the children in the
Home have been made to feel in many ways the warm friendship of "the
Masons," to them a vast body of men who stand for right and justice, and
who are their friends. Visitations of Lodges are always events of interest to
the children and generally speaking these contacts are decidedly .beneficial to
them.
Particular mention should be made of the annual Christm~s party which
has been given for the children for the past fifteen years by the Masonic
Lodges of Monrovia; Monrovia Lodge No. 308 and Sojournei: Lodge No. 607.
This party is always held during the week before Christmas. The plans for it
are so carefully made and well carried out that it has become one of the principal events in the children's year. At the party held last December there was
present one boy (later graduated . and discharged) who had attended every one
of these fifteen Monrovia Christmas parties.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506, whose membership is made up largely of men
connected with the motion picture industry, is another Lodge which during t.he
past several years has maintained a specially active and very generous interest
in the welfare and happiness of the children. They made a most interesting
motion picture depicting life in the Home, which picture has had circulation
among many Lodges. They presented the Home with a modern projection
machine for sound pictures. For several years they have maintained a Covina
Home Recreation Fund, and have encouraged us to draw upon it for special
pleasures and recreational features which could not be paid for from other
sources. During the past summer they gave the children at the summer camp a
fine new sail•boat, also a canoe of the best construction.
Perhaps the best feature of the generosity of the aibove mentioned Lodges
is the spirit which they have put into their giving, the fine friendliness a,nd
cordial goodwill which has accompanied it.
The Chris.tmas Fund-Mention should be made of the Christmas and
Entertainment Fund, made up this year of contributions from 269 Lodges and
86 other Masonic organizations and individuals. This fund has enabled us not
only to provide generously for the children at Christmas time, .but also to
furnish throughout the year many special pleasures and treats that otherwise
would be impossible. Notably, from this fund are paid all the expenses of the
camp at Balboa, where the children spend two months in Summer.
JOHN M. DowNEN, Superintendent

GRAND~ODGE

OF CALIFORNIA

387

Visitations. to Covina Home
August, 1936:
9-Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674, Long Beach, at Camp Tucker, Balboa.
30---Covenant Lodge No. 527, Los Angeles, ballgame with boys.
September, 1936:
20---Garvanza Lodge No. 492, Los Angeles.
27-Playa Linda Chapter No. 425, 0. E. S., Hermosa Beach.
John Marshall Lodge No. 636, Los Angeles.
Elsinore Lodge No. 289, Elsinore.
November, 1936:
1-"The Westerners," Twentieth Century-Fox Film Masonic Club.
8--Fairview Lodge No. 629, Los Angeles.
Whittier Bethel No. 93, Job's Daughters, Whittier.
16-Child Welfare Division; Council of Social Agencies of Los Angeles.
22-0fficers Association, 87th Masonic District.
·Majestic Chapter No. 480, 0. E. S., Los Angeles.
Utopia Chapter No. 441, 0. E. S., Los Angeles.
December 1936 :
6-Buntington Park Pyramid No. 48, A. E. 0. S.
20---Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506, Los Angeles.
April, 1937:
11-South Gate Order Rainbow Girls.
18--Culver City Order Rainbow Girls.
Claremont Lodge No. 436, Claremont.
Upland Lodge No. 419, Upland.
Ontario Lodge No. 301, Ontario.
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427, Chino.
Pomona Lodge No. 246, Pomona.
Compass Lodge No. 590, ·Pomona.
25-W est Adams Lodge.
Culver City Lodge, No. 467, Culver City.
29-Temple City Chapter No. 448, 0. E. S., Temple City.
May, 1937:
2-South Gate Lodge No. 320, South Gate Chapter No. 133, 0. E. S.,
South Gate.
9-Mizpah Lodge No. 378, Los Angeles, ballgame with boys.
Meridian Lodge No. 667, Glendale.
Montebello Lodge No. 451, Montebello.
12-Social Club, Pomona.
16---Composite Lodge No. 639, Los Angeles.
Arcadia Lodge No. 547, Sierra Madre.
Guardian Lodge No. 596, South Gate.
.Guardian Chapter No. 439, 0. E. S., South Gate.
19-Glen Eyrie Chapter No. 237, 0. E. S., Glendale.
23-Granada Lodge No. 608, Alhambra.
Menorah Lodge No. 623, Los Angeles.
Manchester Lodge No. 585, Los Angeles, .ballgame.
Tujunga Lodge No. 592, Tujunga.
June, 1937:
4--Lyra Chapter No. 144, <'.>. E. S., Whittier.
6-The Gardens Lodge No. 621, Belvedere Gardens.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308, Monrovia.
Belvedere Lodge No. 539, Los Angeles.
Bell Lodge No. 483, Bell Assembly of Girls.
13-Redlands Lodge No. 300, Redlands.
Bellflower Lodge No. 523, Bellflower.
Palestine Lodge No. 351, Los ·Angeles.

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

20-Lynwood Lodge No. 600, Lynwood.
Wilmington Lodge No. 198, Wilmington.
Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0. E. S., Long Beach.
Entertainments and Speakers
August, 1936 :
21-Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380. Picnic for all the children at
Huntington Beach Park. Lodge furnished transportation, food and
entertainment.
September, 1936-March, 1937:
Mr. Torrance C. Welch, seven illustrated travel lectures.
November, 1936:
~fficers Association, 88th Masonic District. Entertainment in our
Auditorium. Magician, Ventriliquist and trained dog.
December, 1936:
20-Mount Olive Lodge N-0. 506, Christmas entertainment, consisting of
acts by children from the Hollywood Studios. Mistress of Ceremonies:
Mary Carlisle.
.
20-Sam M. Crawford, 1138 West Blvd., Los Angeles, Mount Olive Lodge
No. 506, entertained with swing patented by himself.
23-Monrovia Lodge No. 308, 13th annual Christmas party for all the
children, at Monrovia Temple. A show, a Christmas tree and refreshments.
February, 1937:
2~The Roesener Instrumental Trio. An entertaining program of popular music.
May, 1937:
16-The Bronco Busters, Texas Ruby Owens and Zeke Clemente.
July, 1937:
9-Los Angeles Police Association, Annual Police Show at Los Angeles
Coliseum.
Donations to Masonic Home at Covina
Anonymous-$35.00. "I owe Masonry more than I can ever repay."
Arndt, Mrs. H. B.-1 raincoat, 1 pair tennis shoes, 1 overcoat.
Ascot Lodge No. 538 and Ascot Chapter 0. E. S., No. 437-64 lbs. candy.
Ascot Auxiliary-2 Mickey Mouse dishes and spoons, 16 water glasses, 4
ice tea glasses, 4 sheets, 4 pillow cases, curtains for 2 windows, blinds for two
windows and doily set for Princess dresser.
Ascot Chapter No. 437, 0. E. S.-1 rug.
Barkheim, Wm. I.-1 piano (Henry & S. l,indeman No. 30690), 1 piano
bench, 1 cello and bow, 2 mandolins and cases and 1 folding music stand.
Becker, Dr. H. F.-165 half-pound boxes candy.
Bell Lodge No. 483-5 small jars jelly and 3 medium jars jelly.
Bell Rainbow Girls~homemade candies.
Bellflower Lodge No. 523-1 dozen jars jams and jellies.
Belvedere Lodge No. 539-8 small jars jelly.
Bettina Chapter No. 399--63 jars jams and jellies.
Blodgett, Mrs.-1 lot cookies.
Boyd, Mrs. Lula Mae-1 lot magazines.
Bullock's Department Store--15 pieces toys and playground equipment.
Chamberlin, Mrs. E.-1 large lot assorted jams and jellies, 1 large box
of books, magazines and games.
Childs, Mr. and Mrs. John-1 box books.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-1 box dates.
Composite Lodge No. 4~5 cases jams.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

389

Composite Lodge No. 639-ice cream to serve 160, 2 boxes Baby Ruth
candy.
Corona Lodge No. 324--1 box "Tango" candy, 1 box "O'Henry" candy,
1 box "Baby Ruth" candy, 11 cartons assorted candy, 60 lb. bag of peanuts,
10 quarts jelly and jam, 3 jars marmalade.
Creighton, Bert, County Charity Department-1 box toys.
Crescent Bay Assembly Rainbow Girls, Culver City-1 lot jams and
jellies.
Day, Mr. and Mrs. John-1 lot Geographic magazines.
Department Forester and Fire Warden, San Dimas-4 deer carcasses.
Edw. A. Apffel Company-25 lbs. coffee.
Eighty-eighth District Officers Association-$35.00 for Entertainment Fund.
El Birah Chapter White Shrine Social Club--16 quarts jam, 4 baseballs,
1 carton ma!"'bles.
Elsinore Lodge No. 289-4 cases jams and jellies, 3 cases foodstuffs, sixtyfive cents fo!i Treat Fund.
Eunsberger, Mr.-6 jars jams and jellies.
Fisher, C. V.-1 lot books and games.
Fletcher Drive Business Men's Association-175 individual packages candy,
nuts and cookies.
Foster, R. F.-1 lot magazi,nes.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R. A. M.-1 kit ripe olives.
Frisby, Mrs. L. T.-15 dolls.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339-1 carton chocolates.
Ganther, C. F.-$3.00 for the Treat Fund.
Garvanza Chapter No. 266, 0. E. S., and Garvanza Lodge No. 492-1 set
wicker doll furniture, 5 scrap books, 1 package raisins, 1 package dates, 1 lot
canned goods and preserves, 1 !qt children's clothing.
Garvanza Lodge No. 492-22 jars jams and jellies, $5.00 cash.
'Glassell Park Chapter No. 486, 0. E. S., and Glassel! Lodge No. 605-41
individual packages candy.
Goshorn, Mrs. Anna-$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Gould, Mrs. T. C.-1 library table, 6 chairs.
Granada Lodge No. 60~1 lot of eggs, 20 jars jellies and jams.
Gray, T. H.-1 scrapbook.
Greenleaf Lodge No. 670-6 jars jellies and jams.
Guardian Chapter No. 439, 0 . E. S.-4 jars jam.
Hall, Lawrence J.-1 large Victrola, 1 lot records.
Hack, W.-$8.33 for Treat Fund.
Haneberg, Fred-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
Hayden, Mrs.-1 lot cloth scraps.
Hewett Candy Company-10 lbs. chocolate candy.
Hinkleman, L.-30 bottles perfume.
Hoffman, E. A. Company-2 large boxes chocolate candy.
Hollenbeck Lodge ·No. 319-96 quarts of peaches. ·
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-4 large boxes persimmons.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-10 doz. half gallon jars peaches, 13 quarts fig
jam, 18 No. 10 cans pineapple, 76 assorted sizes jams, etc., 2 quarts honey.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-1 Broadloom rug 12xl4, 1 rug cushion, 6 window shades.
Hostetler, A. G.--$2.00 for Treat Fund.
Hughes, G. B.-20 holders for thread, needles, etc., for older girls.
Huntington Park Pyramid No. 48, A. E. 0. S.-48 cans jams and jellies,
30 glasses jams and jellies, 1 can olives, large jar pickles, 1 jar honey.
Huyche, Mr.-1 lot groceries.

. 390

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
5 0 E S.-165 small boxes candy, 2 lbs. hard
Jasmine Chapter No. 14 , · ·
candy.
Johnson, Mr~-1 lot magazines.
Johnson, J. A.-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
Jones, Frank-1 assortment of stamps.
Kenison, Wm.-30 packages bath. salts. .
.
Kohler Mrs. lrene--44 Geographic magazmes. .
Kohler'. Mrs. Irene-16 bound volumes Geographic magazmes.
Lafferty, Mrs. Mae-1 lot Sunday School p~pers: I H1'story of the Civil
L amp·h'1er, A . A ·-2 volumes "Harper's P1ctor1a
..
War."
Langstaff, Clifford A.-1 lot jams and Jellies.
Lindsey, Mr.-$1.00 for Treat ~und.
.
dr S
(100
Loew 's, Incorporated-1 box pictures. Wh ite
King Laun Y oap
Los Angeles Soap Company-1 case
bars) 1 case Mission Bell Soap (50 bars)·
~s Cerritos Lodge No. 674-~ lot to>: airplanes: .
Lynwood Lodge No. 600--58 Jai:s of Jams and Jellies.
Mackres C. C.-$10.00 for Treat Fund. .
.
Majestic' Chapter No. 480, O. E. S.-1 qmlt (ha~d Pf'~t~d).
and jellies,
Majestic Chapter No. 480, 0. E. S.-1 lot boo s,
o Jams
fruit.
.
h
Manchester Lodge No. 585-4 j~rs jelly! 1 can oney.
Manchester Lodge No. 585-20 Jars of Jam.
Martinez Lodge No. 41-1 box assorted toy~.
.
Masonic Oroville Lodge No. 103-1 kit. of r~pe olives.
Matrons Association of Southern Caltforma, ~936, 0. E. S.-11 kitchen
utensils and 48 dishes for girls' cottage.
McKinney, Mr. and Mrs. E. 0.-1 box books.
McLaughlan, J ohn-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
Menlo Park Lodge No. 551--0oll and doll clothes. .
Menorah Lodge No. 623-10 doz. jars of strawberry Jam: r.< d
Ch
N 126 0 E S -$10.00 for Educat10n run ·
MM~rc~etodga:t;;o. 3'78-14 j~rs ia~ 15 jars jelly, 1 can apricots, 2 cans
1zpa
.
k'
honey 6 cans vegetables and 1 box coo 1es.
.
.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-19 small jars jelly, 4 large Jars Jelly.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308-1 lot pancake batter·
Montange, Mrs.-1 quilt.
Morgan Donald-$15.00.
.
.
d
d f 't 2
~¥1 'k
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506-large lot jellies, Jams an cann~
large boxes candy, large jar peach jam, basket oranges, box woo en oc s,
1 pair oars.
1
1
Old
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506-1 new 16 ft. sailboat, comp ete; new
Town c~dnoe. Ch t N 160 0 E S -$23 44 for Entertainment Fund.
Occ1 ent
ap er o.
• · · ·
·.
A
·
flag 1 electric
Officers Association, lOlst Masonic District-1 mencan
•
.

clociiic~~:g~~::a:r!, 88th Masonic District-large lot jams and jellies.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341-large sack of n;its.
. .
Palestine Lodge No. 351-2 doz. jars of Jams ~nd Je~li~~·
f furniture in
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346-$42.50 for rugs an re ms- mg o

Palo Alto room. (No.N7 S~n;~~~ r f t~~· rug and pad, 1 desk, 1 desk lamp,
Pasadena Lodge o.
x
d h d
2 chairs 1 arm chair 3 mattresses, 3 bed lamps an s a es.
Pe~nelas, Mr. a~d Mrs. L.-$2.00 for Treat Fund,
0

1

1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

391

Pennsylvania Rubber Company-5 doz. new tennis balls, 5 doz. used tennis
balls.
•
·
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202-1 box toys and Christmas presents.
Past Matrons Association of Bakersfield-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
Peters, Carl F.-75 lbs. Ralston cereal, 15 lbs. Ry-Krisp, 12 large boxes
Musketeer candy, 7 cartons cereal, 8 cases Ralston's Corn Flakes, 7 cases
Ralston's cereal, 12 large boxes Milky Way candy.
Pickwick Masonic Club-$55.00 for Treat Fund.
'Pierson, H. C.-1 deer head, mounted.
Playa Linda Chapter No. 425, 0. E. S.-Q cases jams and jellies.
Plummer, A. W.-$10.00 for Treat Fund.
Pomona Lodge No. 246-1, lot magazines.
Price, Thomas-$60.00 for observance of holidays.
Rainbow Girls Brooklyn Lodge-Q doz. assorted .games.
Rainbow Girls Guardian No. 41 Assembly-1 lot books, 6 jars jams and
jellies, 1 lot picture puzzles.
Ramona: Lodge No. 543-reflector for floor lamp.
Ran, Mrs. Wynant-1 box toys.
Redlands Lodge No. 300--1 doz. jars of jams and jellies.
Robbins, Adam-1 lot books, 1 lot magazines.
Sam L. Warner Square Club-$25.00 for kitchenette in Junior Boys Bldg.
Sam L. Warner Square Club--74 yards hall carpets and carpet cushions
for hallways second floor of two ·Senior buildings.
San Diego Lodge No. 35-1 sack of flour.
San Pasqual Lodge-$80.80 for Senior class rings.
Signal Lodge No. 543-1 - 9 x 12 rug, 2 pairs curtains.
Smedley, G. M.-1 three year subscription to Ladies' Home Journal.
South. Gate Lodge No. 320--12 jars jams and jellies.
Speziali, John-25 gallons honey.
Stanford, Mrs. W. C.-1 box dolls, doll clothes and doll furniture.
Sunset Lodge No. 352-Window curtains, table runner, floor lamp, kitchen
range.
Taylor, Mr. and Mrs. B. E.-1 doz. assorted Dandy jellies.
Terminal Refrigerating . Company-30 dozen eggs.
Thaxter, Earl-$5.00 for Treat Fund.
The Gardens No. 621--Q cans pineapple, 5 small jars jelly, 2 large jars of
jelly.
"The Westerners" Club (Masonic Employees of 20th Century-Fox Studio)
Christmas present for every child in the Home as chosen by the children.
Thirty-three Matrons Club--12% lbs candy, 50 toys, 2 large games, 1 large
indoor bait
Triangle Candy Company-45 lbs. hard candy.
Trickle, E. W.-Magazines, picture puzzles and bicycle for the girls.
Tuechter, August H.-Comic sections of the Cincinnati Enquirer and rotogravure sheet.
University Lodge No, 394-1 box caramels.
Urban, Chas. H.-3 rubber door mats, 3 x 8 ft.
Utopia Chapter No. 441, ·o. E. S.-1 mantel clock.
Veale, C. W.--64 lbs. candy.
Victorville Lodge No. 634-1 lot magazines.
Ward, M. P.-1 box candy.
Watson, Frank G., Grand 'Tiler-1 Waltham gold watch and 1 Elgin gold
watch.
Welch, Torrance C.-,.3 lots magazines, 17 pictures suitable for framing.
West Adams Lodge No. 565-1 large lot jams and jellies, 1 box toy balloons, 4 or· 5 picture books, 1 bag assorted · tennis and golf balls.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

392

393

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Whittier Lodge No. 323-2 lots barbecued beef, 110 ibs.
Whittier Bethel No. 93, Job's Daughters--$.10.00.. .
. .
Williams, Mrs. E. F.-1 carton assorted jams and 1elhes, canned frmts and
nuts.
Wilshire Chapter 0. E. S. No. 329-2 bed spreads, 2 fancy pillows and
curtains for all windows in Domestic Science cottage.
Wixon, Fred W.---$1.00 for Treat Fund.
Young, R. J.~.00 for Treat Fund.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Covina Home
July 1, 1936 to August 1, 1937

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Acorn ..............................494 $ 10.00
Clay ············--···············.101
Alamo _......:...- ..............122
5.00
Coalinga ··········-······--··_,387
Albert Pike ..................484
5.00
Compass -················-····590
Alexandria -····-······-····531
5.00
Confidence ······-··············203
Alisa! ··············-······........321
5.00
Corcoran ......~··········-····490
Alpha ..............................431
5.00
Corinthian ············-········ 9
Alta Loma _........:............643
10.00
Corona ············--······-····324
Atascadero .....:..............493
5.00
Coronado ...........c••••••••••••441
Alturas _•......................248
5.00
Covenant ······-·······•········527
Amador .......................... 65
5.00
Crescent .......................... 45
Amity ............................370
5.00
Crockett ...........................139
Arcata ............................106
5.00
Cupertino ·····-·····-········510
Argonaut ........................46.1
10.00
Curtis ...........•..,...............140
Argonne ......................-514
10.00
Culver City - ····-····-····467
Artesia ············-····-·-·-··377
5.00
Damascus ........................648
Ashlar ............................306
5.00
Delta ··-··-·······"·······-····-471
Athens .............•.....:_......228
5.00
Dinuba ............................385
Azusa ......- ......................305
5.00
Downey _, ......................220
Balder ··················-········393
12.50
Francs Drake ................376
Bay City _....................-526
10.00
Dunsmuir ......................297
Bell - -········--····-····;···-··483
5.00
East Bay ........................489
Bellflower -····-········-····523
5.00
East Gate .....·.................290
Blackmer ........................442
10.00
Eel River ......................147
Blythe ................_..........473
5.00
El Cajon Valley............576
Brawley ..........................402
5.00
El Centro -··········-········384
Buckeye .................,....•...195
5.00
El Dorado -···················· 26
Buena Park -····-····- -··-357
5.00
El Segundo - ··········-····-507
Burlingame ....................400
10.00
Elmhurst ........................610
Cahuenga ............- ........-513
7.50
Elsinore ............- ............289
5.00
Elysian - - ---·················.418
Caledonia ........................486
California ...................... 1
12.50
Enterprise ...................... 70
282
5.00
Eureka ............................ 16
.
Callayoml ············-····-····
Canoga -····-····-·····-·······611
11.81
Evergreen .················-···259
Capital City ...........:......499
10.00
Excelsior -...................•...160
Carmel ······-····················680
5.00
Fairmount -··········-······-435
Carquinez _....................337
10.00
Fallbrook -····················317
Calaveras ........................ 78
5.00
Ferndale ·····-················.193
Center -·········--·-:.......465
5.00
Fillmore ..........................379
Charter Rock ................410
10.00
Fontana -············-····-····653
Charity ............................362
5.40
Fort Crook ....................575
Chico ....................:....~......111
10.00
Franklin ..........................143
Citro! ............................"656
5.00
Fremont ..........................497
Claremont ......................527
5.00
Fresno ...........................247

Amt.
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
44.30
5.00
2.50
12.50
12.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
7.50

Lodge
No.
Friendship ......................210
Fruitvale ........................336
Galt ............,.....................267
Golden Gate .................. 30
Gold Hill ...................... 32
Golden Rule ..................479
Guardian ........................596
S. W. Hackett ..............574
Hawaiian ........................ 21
Hammonton ..................433
Hanford ..........................279
Hemet ............................615
Hermann -····--··-········127
Hesperian .....................264
Hill's Ferry .................226
Highland Park ............382
Hiram -·················-······ 43
Hollenbeck .................-319
Hollywood -··········-····-355
Holtville ······-···-········-425
Honolulu ........................409
Howard .......................... 37
Humboldt ......:............... 79
Illinoistown .................. 51
Indian Rock ..................638
Ione .................................. 80
A. F. E. Irwin ..............645
John J. Jarman ............669
Kauai ..............................589
Kaweah ..............:.......•...665
King David's ................209
Henry Knox ..................662
La Brea ...............c..........650
La Fayette ....................126
La Jolla .......................... 518
Lakeshore ......................551
La Mesa ........................407
Landmark ......................253
La Parfaite Union........ 17
Las Palmas ....................366
Laurel ............................245
Le Progres L'Oceanie..371
Lexington ......................104
Libertas ..........................466
Liberty .........................299
Lindsay ..........................416
Live Oak ........................ 61
Lodi ................................256
Long Beach ...,..............327
Los Angeles .................. 42
Los Gatos .....................292
Madera .....:....................280
Madison .......................... 23
Maricopa ........................434
Marin ............................191

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
15.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
17.00
25.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50

Lodge
No.
Mariposa ........................ 24
Martinez ........................ 41
McKinley ........................347
Mendocino ......................179
Meridian ........................667
Metropolitan ................646
Midway ....................._.426
Mill Valley ....................356
Modesto ..........................675
Molino ............................150
Monterey .................... :. ...217
Mosaic ............................218
Mt. Diablo ....................448
Mt. Moriah .................... 44
Mt. Oso ..........................460
Mountain View ..............194
Naval ..........................- 87
Needles -···-···-··········-326
Neptune ······-··················619
Nevada .............·-···-···· 13
Nicolaus ················-·-·····129
Norwalk ........................315
Oasis ························-····664
Oakland ········-·-············188
Oak Grove ....................369
Occidental -···················· 22
Ocean Park ....................369
Ontario .............:............301
Orange Grove ..............293
Oriental ......•...•............-144
Orland ............................265
Oxnard ···········-···--······341
Pacific Grove -····-- ......331
Paja.ro ............................110
Palestine ........................351
Palisades ........................637
Palo Alto ........................346
Palos Verdes ................389
Parnassus ......................388
Pasadena ........................272
Paso Robles ..................286
Penrhyn ........................258
Perris _............................411
Phoenix ..........................178
Piedmont ........................521
Pinole ............................353
Plumas ··············-····- ···- 60
Point Firmin ................558
Pomona ..........................246
Presidio ..........................354
Progressive .................... 578
Redondo ........•...............328
Redwood City ....:........._168
Richmond .....................,375
Rio Vista ......_..............208

Amt.
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
7.50
15.00
10.00 .
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
12.50
15.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
10.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

394

395

P ROCEEDI N GS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Rising Light ..................397
Riverside ··················-····635
Rockridge - ····················468
Roosevelt ······-················SOO
Roseville -······················222
Russian River ······-······181
Sacramento .................... 40
Saint Helena ................ 93
San Bernardino ............348
San Diego ·············-······· 3S
San Fernando ................343
San Francisco ········-····360
San Gabriel -················S46
San Gorgonio ................668
San Jose ........................ 10
San Jacinto ....................338
San Mateo ······-····-········226
San Miguel ....................28S
San Simeon ....................196
San Pedro ··········-··········332
Santa Ana ......................241
Santa Barbara ..............192
Santa Cruz .................... 38
Santa Maria ..................580
Santa Monica ................307
Seaport . ......................,...SSO
Security ..........................581
Selma ............: ..........- .......t77
Semper Virens ..............552
Sequoia ·..........................349
Silver Gate ....................296
Silver Trowel ..............415
Sincerity ........................132
South Gate ········-··········320
South Park .......:............563
South San Francisco ..212

Amt.
10.00
5.00
12.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
S.00
S.00
2.SO
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Speranza Italiana ........219
Standard ........................440
Henry Morse Stevens..541
Suisun ............................ 55
Sunnyvale ......................511
Taft -····-······················-516
Tehama .......................... 3
Temblor ··-··········-·········.477
Temescal -······················314
Texas .............................. 46
Torrance -············-····--447
Trinity ····················-······ 27
Tujunga ·-·······················592
Unity ..............................368
Utopia ............................537
Vacaville -·······-·······-···.134
Vallejo ..........................-487
Veritas ............................640
Vesper ............................ 84
Victorville ....................474
Visalia ........,........:..........128
Geo. W ashington ····-····525
Washington ··········-······ 20
Western Star .........,...... 2
West Gate - ·-···············335
White Pine ··········-········SSS
Willow Glen _..:...........676
Wilmington ....................198
Wilshire ........................445
Winnedurnah .......:.........281
Woodstock ..................-491
Woodland ···········-···- ····156
Yerba Buena ..................403
Yolo ................................ 81
Yosemite ........................ 99

Amt.
5.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
2.SO
5.00
5.00
8.78
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
2.SO
5.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
2.SO
2.SO
10.00
20.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
2.SO
S.00

Chapter
N o.
St. Helena ...................... 63
Visalia ............................ 44
W ilmington ....................141

Amt.
5.00
10.00
2.SO

A mt.
S.00
S.00

Chapter
N o.
Washington .................... 13
W oodland ...................... 46

Commanderies, K. T.
A m.t
Commandery
No.
s.oo
Oroville .......................... s
S.00
Red Bluff ....................:. 17
5.00
San Francisco .............. 41
S.00
San Luis Obispo .......... 27
2.SO
San Pedro ······················ SO
S.00
St. Bernard .................... 23
2S.OO
Ukiah .............................. 33
S.00
Visalia ............................ 26
S.00
Vacaville ........................ 38
S.00
Watsonv1"lle .................... 22
S.00
Woodland ······-·············· 21
Chapters, 0 . E. S.
Chapter
No.
A mt.
Chapter
No.
Alhambra ...................... 193
10.00
Mercedes ........................126
Ione ..................................283
S.00
Mill Valley -··················219
J ewe! ..............................238
10.00
San Rafael ....................215
Mira Monte ..................141
5.00
Wheatland ...................... 48
Commandery
N o.
~ak~rrfield .................... 39
er e ey ........................ 42
Calvary ·························· 62
Eureka .........:.................. 3S
Fresno
···························· 29
G Id W
L 0 ~ tst ·················· 43
os nge es ..........,....... 9
Marysville ...................... 32
~asta .................... 7
N eva I ............................ 6
ava ····--···················'···· 19

A mt.
10.00
5.00
S.00
2.SO
2.SO
10.00
S.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
S.00

::t.

R. T . Brian ........,, . . .

,,

Miscellaneous
·1

.~

·

'

·

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

$ 1.00

~Fi~:r:~~~;~~l:~~:~~~~::~:~~;~:~~~~~
Mrs. Ella Gramerc

1

on.......·-··································-····-········- ····-··

r.·~. ~;ffl~=:~~=~:::::=.:::=-::~=:=.::::::::::::::

J ~~mD asonic Club.:..,...• .......:...•:...................................~.•..........,..........................
P~r~er j~~:~~rs, Whittier......................................................................................

[i~· 6:~~~A~~~~i~~~~;::~:;~~~::~~~:;~::~~Ii~;::~:::i:::~:::::::::::::=:::::=:=:::

Councils, R. & S. M.
Amt.
Council
N o.
Cowncil
No.
2.50
Valley Council .............. 27
California ...................... 2
5.00
Pomona .......................... 21

Amt.
S.00

Chapters, R. A . M.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
Chapter
No.
5.00
Martinez ······-················ 31
Crown .............:.............. 72
5.00
Nevada ························~·· 6
Cyrus .............................. 15
5.00
Ontario ..........................105
Coalinga ........................114
10.00
Pomona .......................... 76
Dixon .............................. 48
12.50
Redondo - -·················:.....101
Hanford ············-········· 74
5.00
Red Bluff ...................... 40
Humboldt ...................... 52
5.00
San Luis ........................ 67
Inglewood ......................131
S.00
Searchlight ................•...133
Keystone ........................ 56
5.00
Selma ..........:..........:.::.....119
Los Angeles ..................- 33
10.00
Siloam ............................ 37
La Purissima ..............:.104
7.50
South Pasadena ............ 1~2
Marin ...................::.........102

Amt.
S.00
2.SO
S.00
S.00
5.00
10.00
2.SO
S.00
5.00
S.00
S.00

~a ~~~~erse ::::::::::anEd
::::::::Senior
: ::::::: :::::Deacon's
:;: ::::::::::::Club,
:::::: :: :39th
:::~::::::District...
.=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~
.....................
M~ster ~ , WC~ rd ens

M

1

1

1gue 1to ire e 0
S
· ·
'
'
Oakland Lod e ~f Per fec~~~···N;;-····•·••"····..·•••":··.,..······· ·•·..······-.-·... ··.····--'··-~Thos. Price g
. :!!................- ••••,•••••••••••--··-····-·····~---········

f,e~~i~~ Mat;~-;;··::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::=::::::::::=::=~=::==:::::::::::::::::::::::
San ta cfar-;;:·v;i1;····M~;~~i~··affi~~--~················-··········-····-..··-···············.·'·······

~· H .. S~v~nson : ..F..........................~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==:::=:::::::::::::::::

AwJnt1~ho entury ox Fihn-..·-······"········:.. ~.'._..•......-..-............:................,....
T~j o~ Cou~b~d;;:;··~tl-·······;··-··············-·······....··:·······'···-'~····~····-···············--···
W illard Van Doren Arna anth......·.···-·················'···-··•'·························•·········

Fitv~::~::::l.~~:~:~~~:~-~-~~~~~~::~~~:~:~~::

1.00
10.00
1.00
3S.OO
S.00
1.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
S.00
5.00
10.00
S.00
5.00
S.00
S.00
20.00
35.00
2.00
10.00
10.00
24.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
15.00
2.00
~.00

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Children at the Covina Home, July 31, 1937
BOYS-85
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Anderson, Robert............Feb. 25, '37 Garden Grove ....586
Baker, Kenneth ................ Aug. 3, '28 Westlake ..............392
Baker, Philip.................... Aug. 3, '28 Westlake ..............392
Bayer, Oscar...._ ...........Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ..............351
Bayer, Roy......................Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ..............351
Birnbaum, Arthur.......... Aug. 10, '36 Menorah ..............623
Bounds, Edward............ Sept. 14, '31 Fullerton ...........,..339
Bounds, ·Wallace..........Sept. 14, '31 Fullerton ..............339
Bowen, Alvin......................Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ............414
Bowen, Charles..................Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ............414
Bowen, Richard................Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ............414
Bowen, Robert.. ................Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ............414
Boyer, Oarence..............Oct. 15, '30 Alhambra ............322
Breinin, Lawrence..........Aug. 11, '29 San Bernardino ..348
Brown, Robert.................. pec. 8, '29 Los Angeles ........ 42
Brown, William................Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles ........ 42
Burns, Roland..................Dec. 28, '35 Hollenbeck ..........319
Challacombe, Wm...........June 22, '35 Jordan ....._...........654
Clark, Harry....................May· 9, '32 So. California ....378
Colvin, James....................Dec. 8, '34 Bell ......................483
Cooksey, John ..................Apr. 7, '32 North Star .......... 91
Crawford, .Robert..............Oct. 1, '32 Pentalpha ............202
CU11iberti, Remo .............. Nov. 8, '28 Speranza Italiana ...................219
Davis, Lester.........., .......June 20, '37 East San Diego....561
Dyer, Vernon.................... Nov. 9, '36 Yorba Linda ......469
Firgens, Herbert............ Apr. 28, '32 Monrovia ............308
Fuller, Harry....................Oct. 6, '35 Mt. Olive ............506
Garbett, William..............Nov. 4, '28 Ontario ................301
Hayes, Vaughn..............June 16, '35 Monrovia ............308
Helwig, Benj ................. Sept. 28, '27 Orange Grove ....293
Hopkins, Hugh..............Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula ........291
Hopkins, Paul................Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula ........291
Hopkins, Robert. ........... Aug. 31, '35 Santa Paula ........291
Houtz, Lawrence..............Feb. 9, '35 Alhambra ............322
Houtz, Walter.................:..Feb. 9, '35 Alhambra ............322
Jones, PauL .....................July 29, '34 Orange Grove ....293
Jones, Richard ..................July 29, '34 Orange Grove ....293
Lidell, Ernest..................Aug. 29, '31 Pasadena .............272
Lord, Edmund..................July 27, '29 Golden West ....-455
Lord, Richard.................July 27, '29 Golden West ......455
Lord, Robert... .................July 27, '29 Golden West ......455
Lounsbury, Harold............Jan. 8, '35 Yosemite .............. 99
Lounsbury, William..........Jan. 8, '35 Yosemite .............. 99
Mark, John........................ Aug. 6, '29 Whittier ..............323
Mascaro, Ralph ..............Feb. 19, '37 Granada ..............608
Mau, Charles.................June 17, '35 Mission ................169
Maxwell, Allan................Mar. 4, '32 Albert Pike .........484
Maxwell, Martin..............Mar. 4, '32 Albert Pike ........484
McKinnon, John..............Dec. 16, '24 Sequoia ................349
Micheletti, Alfred..........Feb. 14, '32 Speranza Italiana ...................219

Location
Age
Garden Grove.. 7
Los Angeles ....12
Los Angeles ....15
Los Angeles ....11
Los Angeles .... 9
Los Angeles ....11
Fullerton ..........15
Fullerton ..........17
Los Angeles ....12
Los Angeles ....14
Los Angeles ....10
Los Angeles .... 7
Alhambra ........17
San B'rn'rdino 12
Los Angeles ....11
Los Angeles ....13
Los Angeles ....11
Los Angeles .....11
Los Angeles .... 10
Bell ..................13
Ft. Jones ..........16
Los Angeles ....\3
San Francisco..17
San Diego ........i2
Yorba Linda ..11
Monrovia ........16
Hollywood ......15
Ontario ............18
Monrovia ........ .8
Orange ............17
Santa Paula ....12
Santa Paula .... 9
Santa Paula .... 8
Alhambra ....... \11
Alhambra ........12
Orange ............ 13
Orange ............14
Pasadena ..........16
San Francisco..17
San Francisco.. 12
San Francisco..14
Merced ....,.......14
Merced ............16
Whittier ..........11
Alhambra ........ 8
San Francisco.. 8
Los Angeles ....12
Los Angeles .... 13
Oakland ..........17
San Francisco.. 15

Name
Admitted
Monroe, James...............;Jan. 21, '31
Monroe, Preston..............Jan. 21, '31
Morgan, John............,..... Mar. 2, '31
Morris, Thomas................July 1, '35
Munro, Donald..............Aug. 21, '36
Myers, Harvey.c.............. Aug. 23, '32
Nelson, Alva .................... Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Calvin................ Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Wesley................June. 8, '34
Nix, Doran........................Oct. 8, '33
Parker, Clarence..............Sept. 7, '36
Peterson, Kenneth ..........July ·22, '36
Peterson, Ralph.............. Sept. 22, '35
Prewett, Norman..............]an. 4, '28
Reynolds, Ivan..................May 7, '28
Richards, Albert............Apr. 20, '35
Rogers, Gordon................July 9, '35
Rowland, George..............Aug. 1, '33
Rowland, James................ Aug. 1, '33
Sachau, William............June 18, '35
Schulze, Frank................May 11, '28
Short, Ralph ......................Aug. 4, '28
Smith, Robert..................Sept. 3, '33
Speziali, John..................June 26, '36
Van Kirk, Richard ........Dec. 30, '34
Wagnon, Frank..... _. .........Jan. 12, '35
Wagnon, Joseph ..............Jan. 12, '35
Wagnon, William............Jan. 12, '35
W alline, Cleon..:.............]an. 31, '30
Walline, Harold..............Jan. 31, '30
Watts, Jack Dean............Feb. 7, '32
Whitman, Philip..............July 1, '36
Wilson, John.................... Sept. 7, '36
Wilson, Robert................ Sept. 7, '36
Zahn, Jerome.................... Oct. 19, '33

No.
Lodge
Orland ..................265
Orland ..................265
Amity ..................370
Silver Gate ..........296
Alta Loma :.........543
University ............394
Montebello ..........451
Montebello ..........451
Montebello ..........451
Hollenbeck ..........319
Natoma ................ 64
Argonne ..............514
Victorville ..........634
Sisson .......:..........310
Live Oak ............ 61
Monte Vista ........655
Valley Forge ......587
Mariposa .............. 24
Mariposa .............. 24
Victory ................474,
Military Service 570
La Fayette ..........126
Fullerton ..............339
Hemet ..................615
Golden Gate ........553
Western Star...... 2
Western Star ...... 2
Western Star ...... 2
Winnedumah ......287
Winnedumah ......287
America .......;......475
Hollywood ......,...355
Craftsman ..........559
Craftstnan ..........559
San Francisco ....360

397
Location
Age
Orland .............;.14
Orland ..............12
San Francisco..15
San Diego ........17
Berkeley .......... 9
Los Angeles ....13
Montebello ...:..16
Montebello ......13
Montebello ...... 8
Los Angeles ....17
Folsom ............11
San Francisco.. 11
Victorville ......15
Mt. Shasta ...... 19
Oakland ..;........ 16
Long Beach ....10
Los Angeles ....11
Mariposa .....:...13
Mariposa ..........10
San Francisco.. 14
San Francisco..13
Sebastopol .......14
Fullerton ........'-15
Hemet ......,.......10
San Francisco.. 9
Shasta ......"""'-.. 9
Shasta .•......;.....11
Shasta ..............10
Bishop ............_13
Bishop ...:.......... 15
Los Angeles ....16
Hollywood ...... 10
Los Angeles :...13
Los Angeles ...J 1
San Francisco..13

Children at the Covina Home, July 31, 1937
GIRLS-63
Name
Admitted
Lodge
N o. L ocation
A ge
Alex, Virginia....._.........June 25, '37 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ....12
Atamian, Maxine.......... Sept. 10, '34 Arlington .....-.....414 Los Angeles ....12
Bailey, Georgia................ Feb. 17, '31 Redon1o ..............328 Redondo ..........16
Bayer, Blanche................ Aug. 27, '33 Palestme ..............351 Los Angeles ;...15
Bayer, Carol.................... Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ..............351 Los Angeles ....13
Benjamin, Gloria..............Mar. 9, '30 Manchester ..........585 Los Angeles ,...15
Bottger, Eleanor..............Mar. 3, '36 Hermann ............127 San Francisco.. 8
Bottger, Jewel.................. Mar. 3, '36 Hermann ............127 San Francisco..10
Bowen, Olive......................Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ....:..:....414 Los Angeles .... 9
Campbell, Claire....- .......July 10, '37 Henry Knox ......662 Los Angeles ....11
Campbell, Louise............July 10, '37 Henry Knox ......662 Los Angeles .... 9
Casabian, Marian............Dec. 27, '34 Sunset ..................352 Los Angeles ·.... 17
Casabian, Ruth ................Dec. 27, '34 Sunset ..................352 Los Angeles ....14
Clark, Dorothea..............June 15, '26 So. California ....278 Los Angeles ....14
Clark, Frances..,.............June 15, '26 So. California ....278 Los Angeles ...:16
Clark, Phyletha..............June 15, '26 So. California ....278 Los Angeles .;.. 15

399

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

398

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No. Location
Age
Oay, Betty,....................... Feb.. 12, '33 Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakersfield ......16
C!a,y, Billie........................ Feb;. 12, '33 Bakersfield -..........224 Bakersfield ...... 14
Clinton, Betty.................... Nov, 7, '36 Altadena ..............678 Altadena ..........10
Clinton, Joann. ................. Nov, 7, '36 Altadena ..............678 Altadena .......... 14
Colhy, Maxine................ N<W. 28, '29 Covenant ........ --.... 527 Los Angeles ... .15
Connery, R.Ose.•.......•...... Augv 29, '35 Ramona ................457 Santa Maria ... .11
Cook, Gloria. ............:....... Aug,, 24, '36 Needles ................326 Needles ............ 1'3
Cox, Emily...................... May 15, '26 Center ..................465 Fresno ............. .15
Crawford, Marion ............ Oct .. 1, '32 Pentalpha ............202 Los Angeles ... .17
Dalmeyer, Sally Ann•... Mar., 15, '36 Sunrise .......... 522 Los Angeles ... .12
Ellis, Fern...................... Sqit. 27, '34 Downey ................220 Downey ............12
Ernst, Gladys .................... May 5, '31 Yosemite .............. 99 Merced .............18
Falkenrath, Frances.1..... .]a~. 21;'32 Larchmont ..........614 Los Angeles ... .13
Gee, Ethel Jane ................ Oct. 26, '32 Covenant .............. 527 Los Angeles ....16
Gorbett, Ruth .................... No.v. 4, '28 Ontario ................301 Ontario ............ 16
Hall, Rose. ..................... Sept. 23, '34 El Segundo ........507 El Segundo ...... 15
Hall, Ruth...................... Sept. 23, '34 El Segundo ........507 El Segundo ..... .11
Hass, Helen.................... Dec. 30, '33 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco.. 15
Hass, Marion. ................. Dec. 30, '33 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco..14
Horr, Margaret. .............Jan. 27, '30 Military Service 570 San Francisco ..14
Jordan, Dorothy.............. May 28, '27 Justice .................. 549 San Francisco .. 13
Lewellen, Edna................July 18, '34 Euclid ......... ~ .......519 Los Angeles .... 12
Lewellen, Ida....................July 18, '34 Euclid .................. 519 Los Angeles ... .12
Lewin, .Rosetta.................. Aug, 1, '33 University ..........394 Los Angeles· .... 15
McCallum, Margaret....Mar. 31 '35 Monte Vista ........ 655 Long Beach ....11
M
,
unro, JeafL.................. Aug. 21, '36 Alta Loma .......... 543 Berkeley .......... 11
Muse,. Donna.................. Sept. 17, '36 Dunsmuir ............ 297 Dunsmuir ........ 8
Nelson, Ina...................... Oct. 23, '30 Montebello ........ ..451 Montebello ...... 11
Osborn, Betty Jo ............June 16, '34 Montebello .......... 451 Montebello ...... 17
Parbery, Alice ................ Mar. 26, '31
Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco..13
Parbery, Catherine ........ Mar. 26, '31
Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco.JO
Parbery, Phyllis ...........:Mar. 26, '31 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco .. 11
Peterson, Jacqueline..... .]uly 22, '36 Argonne .............. 514 San Francisco .. 7
Piaster, Elizabeth .......... Aug. 23, '32 South Park ........ 563 Los Angeles .... 10
Richards, Betty................ Apr. 20, '35 Monte Vista ........655 Long Beach ....15
Richter, Joan .................... Dec. 16, '33 Moneta ............... .405 Los Angeles .... 16
Short, Beth: ....................... Aug. 4, '28 La Fayette .......... 126 Sebastopol .......16
Smith, Dawn.................... Sept. 4, '33 Fullerton ..............339 Fullerton ..........12
Speziali, Judith ................June 26, '36 Hemet ..................615 Hemet ..............15
Speziali, PearL. .............June 26, '36 Hemet ..................615 Hemet .............. 7
Speziali, Thelma............June 26, '36 Hemet ........,.........615 Hemet ..............12
Urban, Helen .................. May 12, '34 Park ......................449 San Francisco .. 14
Wall, FJeanor.................... Apr. 5, '32 Monrovia ............ 308 Monrovia ........ 12
Whitaker, Patricia ........ Apr. 29, '36 Henry S. Orme..458 Los Angeles .... 7
White, Marjorie.............. Jan. 18, '31 Fairmont ..............435 San Francisco .. 15
Willgeroth, Eleanor........ May 25, '28 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..........14
Willgeroth, Wilhelmina ........................ May 25, '28 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ......... .15
Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home
July 31, 1937
Date Began
Name
Lodge
No.
Feb. 25, '37
Anderson, Ray ..............................Garden Grove .......................... 586
Feb. 25, '37
Anderson, Roy .............................. Gar.den Grove .......................... 586
June 19, '36
Burgen, Fred ................................ Alhambra ................................322
Nov. 13, '35
Connery, Dean .................- .......... Ramona ................ _.,............... 547
y

....

Name
Lodge
No.
Ellis, Robert .................................. Downey .... ;...............................220
Hall, Warren ................................ Sunnyvale ................................511
Jone~, Charles ..............................Blythe ...................... _.,.,. ... ,.....
Jones, Harry ........................-., ••• Blythe ........................,......,,.,..., J:
Van Kirk, Stanley........................ Golden City ..............................533

13

Date Began
June 21, '37
June 23, '35
Aug. 1, '36
Aug. 1, '36
Jan.
1, '36

Outside Relief-Children-By Trustees

Date
Began
April 28, 1937
July 28, 1936
June,
1931
Sept. 4, 1936
Feb.,
1931
Jan.,
1931
March, 1930
March, 1936
Feb.,
1936
May,
1935
Dec. 30, 1936
August, 1932
Feb.,
1934
Feb.,
1934
August, 1931
Nov.,
1925
May,
Jan.,
June,
Sept.,
March,
March,
Dec.,
Oct.,
"Nov.,

1927
1927
1929
1928
1932
1936
1931
1931
1933

Monthly
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Three Beauchamp children ...... Pentalpha No. 202 ..............$16.00
Donald Jewel ..............................Rio Vista No. 208.............. 20.00
Two Cornett children ................ Santa Ana No. 241............ 50.00
Joanne Masin ............................ Santa Ana No. 241............ 25.00
Audrey J. Llewellyn.................. Reading No. 254.................. 30.00
Edith Mae lsbell... ..................... East Gate No. 290 .............. 15.00
Ellsworth K. Wisler .................. Portervilel No. 303 ............ 15.00
Mary Ruth Heller...................... Santa· Monica No. 307...... 25.00
Gloria and Edna Kirchner ...... Long Beach No. 327 .......... 20.00
Two Lasher children ................ San Pedro No. 332............ 40.00
Four Bone children .................... San Pedro No. 332............ 55.00
Jacqueline Beauchamp .............. Fullerton No. 339 .............. 20.00
Ruth 0. Doblough...................... Sunset No. ·352.................... 15.00
Grace M. Doblough.................. Sunset No. 352.................... 15.00
Three Bibby children ................ Ocean Park No. 369 .......... 38.41
Two Havlin children................ Le Progress de l'Oceanie
No. 371 ............................ 30.00
Pearl 0. Vincent........................ Yerba Buena No. 403 ........ 10.00
Thomas M. Carlisle.................. Schofield No. 443 ................ 20.00
Threi: Phillips children ............ Mt. Oso No. 460................ 40.00
Abraham S. Hitch...................... Point No. 503...................... 20.00
Three Maas children ................ Cupertino No. 510.............. 60.00
Bennett children ........................ Glendale No. 544................ 30.00
Two Reese children.................... Sunnyvale No. 577 ............ 30.00
Two Johnson children.............. Point Firmin No. 558........ 30.00
.Manley P. Jones ........................ Compass No. SOO................ 20.00
Admitted to the Covina Home
August 1, 1936-July 31, 1937

BOYS-15
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Anderson, Nei!L.............:......Feb. 25, '37 Garden Grove ....586
Birnbaum, Arthur .................. Aug. 9, '36 Menorah ...........::.623
Bowen, Alvin ............................ Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ..........:.414
Bowen, Charles........................Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ..........:.414
Bowen, Richard ...................... Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ..........:AH
Bowen, Robert. ....................... Oct. 2, '36 Arlington ............414
Davis, Robert ....................... June 20, '37 East San Diego .. 561
Dyer, Vernon........................ Nov. 9, '36 Yorba Linda ......469
Helwig, Benjamin..................June 1, '37 Orange Grove ... .293
Mascaro, Ralph .................... Feb. 19, '37 Granada ..............608
Munro, Donald.................... Aug. 21, '36 Alta Loma ..........643
Parker, Clarence.................... Sept. 7, '36 Natoma ................ 64
Schulze, Frank.................... Mar. 20, '37 Military Service 570
Wilson, John .......................... Scpt. 7, '36
Craftsmen .......... 559
Wilson, Robert... ................... Sept. 7, '36 Craftsmen .......... 559

Location
Orange
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
San Diego
Yorba Linda
Orange
Alhambra
Signal Hill
Los Angeies
San Francisco
Los Angeles
Los Angeles

400

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GIRLS~9

Name
Admitted
Alex, Virginia ......................June 25, '37
Bowen, ·Olive Mae....- ............ Oct. 2, '36
Campbell, Oaire....................July 10, '37
Campbell; Louise..................July 10, '37
Clinton, Betty Jane................ Nov. 7, '37
Clinton, Joann................:...:... Nov. 7, '37
Cook, Gloria..........................Aug. 24, '36
~unro, Jean ..,.....................:.Aug. 21, '36
Muse, Donna.....:...:................Sept. 7, '36

Lodge
No.
Utopia ..................537
Arlington ····- ·····.414
Henry· Knox ......662
Henry Knox ......662
Altadena ····- ········678'
Altadena ..............678
Needles ................326
Alta Loma ..........643
Dunsmuir ............297

Location
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Altadena
Altadena
Needles
Signal Hill
Dunsmuir

Departed During the Year August 1, 1936--July 31, 1937
BOYS-17
Tq Whom
Name
Admitted
Discharged
Departed
Carroll, Charles.................. Mar. 17, '28
Mother.................•...•..........June 13, '37
Aunt..........._.........................June 12, '37
Countryman, Robert .....- ..... Nov. 20, '30
Step-mother..........•.............June 21, '37
Elliott, Willard....-..............Sept. 18, '34
Ellis, Robert..........................Sept. 27, '34
Outside care..................•...June 21, '37
Falkenrath, Jack...............:....Jan. 21, '32
Mother ................................June 13, '37
Helwig, Benjamin................Dec. 31, '34
Outside care...,......- ............Sept. 7, '36
Hocks, RusselL. ...................June 23, '27
Masonic Home...........•.....:Apr. 12, '36
Masonic Home.................... Apr. 4, '37
Lord, Raymond .................-...July 27, '29
McLean, Norman.......:..........Jan. 20, '32
Mother...,..............................July 1, '37
Masonic Home..................Dec. 14, '36
Nelson, Nels..:.......................Nov. 27, '27
Richardson, Joe............-.'..... Nov. 18, '28
Father....................~ .....,.. __ _,June 12, '37
Riddell, Edwin:.....................May 29, '30
Mother................................June 11, '37
Riddell, Robert... ...................May 29, '30
Mother..:..............................June 11, '37
Ridge, Jackson .................... Se,Pt. 11, '35
Mother....:....:....................:•.. Oct. 13, '36
Schulze, Frank........•............. Aug. 31, '34
Outside care..................:...•. Sept. 3, '36
Schwartz, Joe........................Apr. 27, '30
Father ........,.................. ~.....Mar. 24, '37
Taylor, · F!oyd..........- ......_ ... Oct. 19, '22
Father............................,__:.June 13, '37
GIRLS-15
Countryman, Barbara........ Nov. 20, '30
Aunt......: ..............- ........,..June 12, '37
Craig, Bonnie........................Jqne 24, '34
Mother....•......:...............:....June fl, '37
Masonic Home....•............... Sept. 3, '36
Ernst, Marian...................... Sept. 14, '31
Firgens, Margaret................Apr; 28, '32
Mother.......:........................June 21, '37
Gildersleeve, Mary................ May 2, '36
Father...w··----~...................Aug. 28, '36
Gildersleeve, Virginia............May 2, '36
Father.- .................~ .•.....,.... Aug. 28, '36
Mother........................,.......June 13, '37
Hass, Dorothy......................Dec. 30, '33
Kahl, Patti............................ Nov. 12, '32
Guardian............................June 23, '37
Miller, Anna May.,..............Apr, 29, '29
Mother.......,........................June 13, '37
Nelson, Lillian...................... Nov. 27, '27
Masonic Home.................. Sept. 20, '36
Prim, Maxine........................Nov. 15, '28
Mother...- ..........- .............June 11, '27
Mother................................June 16, '37
Reynolds, Ju!iette.................. May 7, '28
Richter, Marlene..................Dec. 16, '33
Guardian............................June 13, '37
Short, Dorothy...................... Aug. 4, '28
Outside c:ire.:.................... Sept. 28, '36
Williams, I;'atricia•...:·········Aug. 28, '27
Masonic Home..................June 20, '37

Report adopted with the exception of that portion relating
to Old Age Security, which w as referred to the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes. The part relating to Finances
was referred to the Committee on Finance. ·

401

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
To the M.'

.w: .Grand Lodge of California:

Your Board herewith presents its Fifth Annual . Report, being for the
period between August 1, 1936, and September .~y}~~(,
The Board is now constituted as follows:
'
1937
1938
1939
Reynold E. Blight
Dr. Ernest G. Bashor
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Edmund A. Lockett
Jos. L. Shell
Arthur S. Crites
Robert B. Gaylord
Harry F. White
Louis C. Drapeau
T. M. Wright
Eugene S. Elkus
John F. Pullen
Frank M. Smith
Howard B. Kirtland
Halcott B. Thomas

•

The officers of the Board are:
Frank M. Smith, Chairman
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Vice Chairman
RO'bert B. Gaylord, Vice Chairman William P. Filmer, Treasurer
Reynold E. Blight, Secretary
One Million Dollars
In presenting the annual report of the Masonic Homes Endowment program, it is the great privilege of the Chairman to announce that the Permanent
Endowment Fund now exceeds a total of ONE MILLION DOLLARS 111 1
This long desired goal, imbedded for decades in the hearts and minds of
the great pioneers of the Home movement-now an accomplished fact, is
praiseworthy, not only because of the size of the fund, .but because of the sum
total of human regard and sacrifice it so adequately represents. It is the firm
belief of the Board tliat Masons of the jurisdiction wi!I look upon the accumulated amount specified here in our report, as a secondary factor, despite its
magnitude, to the testimony it offers· of sacrifice, of protracted concern and of
a clear-cut evidence of brotherly love extended to those whose lives and
happiness are dependent upon the charitable interest of the entire Fraternity.
This fact and not the aggregate amount attained, is the basis for the pride
the Board takes in offering its annual report, because at no time during the
past months has the Board permitted any semblance of a specifie.d quota drive
for funds to enter into the educational program outlined at the Annual Communication of last year. The Board has been content to present in a simple
and unassuming manner the simple story of the Homes of California Masonry,
and any success achieved during the period just ended rightfully belongs, not
to the Board, but to the vast majority of average Masons of the jurisdiction,
who have caught the vision of the privilege of service and have rendered it,
gladly and willingly, in the interest of our children and elders at Covina and
Decoto.
Educational Program
In carrying out the program for 1936-37, the Board has kept its promise,
voluntarily made a year ago, that under no circumstance would a quota drive
for funds be attempted in the face of uncertain and unstable financial conditions created by unemployment and readjustment, but that a program predicated
on a non-aggressive and purely fraternal plan of education would be carried
out among the members of the Craft. The Board believed then, and it believes
now, that such a program offers the only means of logical approach to a me1?bership already interested and aware of the existence and needs of our twm
institutions of mercy. On this premise and in keeping with the fundamentals

403

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of Masonry, the program for the year was planned and put into effect with
heartening results equally obtained from a spiritual acceptance of the Homes
program, as well as a material evidence of regard from brethren scattered
throughou~ the entire jurisdiction. The Board found, among the brethren,
an eager interest to learn more about the Homes, its history, its growth, and
data on the lives and activities of the elders and children, and was much encouraged to note this widespread desire on the part of Craftsmen to enlarge
their understanding of Home matters.
Pamphlets--Correspondence
Acceding to this demand and to encourage the infiltration of Home lcnowle~ge among members of the Craft, the Board caused to be prepared fifteen
different types of pamphlets and folders containing information on every phase
• of the Homes program. These pamphlets, distributed mainly through Masters,
Secretaries and Homes Endowment Chairmen of Lodges, reached a total of
290,000 printed pieces, and undoubtedly contributed greatly to whatever success
the program has enjoyed during the current year. The Board believes that
through the distribution of these pamphlets, Masons of the jurisdiction are per·haps better informed upon the vital subject of the Homes project than at any
time in the history of the institutions, and by virtue of this mass knowledge,
have demonstrated their interest and care in a practical and concrete way.
Contributions to the fund were more numerous during the period just closed
than that of any other year since the inception of the Homes ideal, and while
individually smaller than those of less stringent times, the aggregate total, as
well as the aggregate interest involved, proved highly encouraging to Board
members who had advocated an educational campaign rather than one carried
out for purely financial results.
Further evidence of the renewed interest manifested in the program was
the fact that numerous letters containing requests for information, Home data
and pamphlets, were received by the Board, which, in answering these letters
and furthering the general program, sent out many pieces of correspondence
·
during the year.
Work of Homes Endowment Fund Chairmen
The Board, while making no definite effort to decentralize the correspondence and contact activities of the program, tried, through the medium of
Homes Endowment chairmen in each subordinate Lodge, to render a more
personal liaison than that permitted by Board correspondence, between those
seeking information and those able to provide it. In connection with the activities of the Homes Endowment chairmen appointed in the majority of Lodges,
the Board has only words of praise. Their work among the members in distributing informative pamphlets, making talks before their respective Lodges,
contacting personally many non-attending Lodge members, together with their
constant contact and co-operation with the Board, aided the program immeasurably and contributed greatly to the high level of knowledge of Home
affairs that now pertains throughout the jurisdiction. Three hundred and eighty
of these chairmen were appointed in as many Lodges at the request of the
Board, and individually and collectively functioned in a meritorious manner
throughout the year. Their constructive efforts were of such outstanding good
to the general program that it is a matter of keen regret to the Board to
announce that some Masters of Lodges saw fit, despite repeated requests, to
withhold such appointments within their respective Lodges, thereby retarding
the proper dissemination of information to which the members were rightly
entitled. The Board recommends to incoming Masters the immediate appointment of Endowment chairmen in such Lodges, and suggests, wherever possible,

the reappointment of those chairmen, who, by .virtue of past experience, are
best qualified to carry on the work to be undertaken during the coming year.
These brethren, whose worth in the program has been certified by splendid
results, undoubtedly will want to continue their work of charity, and needless
to say, the Board earnestly bespeaks for them the consideration of new Masters
when appointments for the new year are being made.
Financial Report

In announcing the financial returns for· the year, the Board calls attention
to the splendid response registered from the Lodges in the California jurisdiction. This generous spirit, manifested by mass approval and multiplied giving,
is a cheering thing to every Master Mason interested in preserving and safegarding the institutions dedicated in our name, and symbolizes richer divi. dends for charity and mercy in the days to come.
Appended tci this report will be found the report of the auditors, authorized
by the Finance Committee to audit the accounts of the Permanent Endowment
Fund of the Masonic Homes, showing a full and complete statement of the
condition of said fund as of July 31, 1937, with additions to August 31, 1937.
An appropriation of $5,000 was made at the last communication for the
expenses of your Endowment Board, and the whole of said sum has been
expended as shown by the following account:
Endowment Board Expenses
Receipts
Balance shown by 1936 report................- ...........·-··-······•·············$ 331.67
Appropriatiop by 1936 Grand Lodge.....................·-··..·-············· 5,000.00

5,331.67

Totat.............~·-····-··-·······································-············•·····-

$5,331.67

Disbursements
Printing and supplies,...,•...........,............,.........•-·······················-····$3;1.15.93

Postage ··········-····-···········•···············•-··························-··················· 207.87
Stenographic and clerical help.•;.........-····-······-···················;•······· 1,049.50
Expenses executive meetings of Board.......................................: 664.45
Incidentals ······································-··················································

3.20

Total checks drawn from October 19, 1936 to September 1, 1937, as per vouchers ......•..........:..........

5,140.95

Cash in bank September 1, 1937....................................

$ 190.72

From the Auditor's report it seems a clearly established fact that interest
among members is keener than ever before, and is distributed over a greater
number of donors than at any time in the history of the Homes program. For
this encouraging fact, the Board is grateful and proud; grateful for the individual loyalty given the program by so many of the brethren, who took unto
themselves and passed on the messages sent out by the Board, and who became
a valuable part of the program throughout the years; proud, because in the
face of economic uncertainty, members of the Craft upheld the financial necessities of the program by a consistent display of sacrifice and thoughtfulness,
giving whole-heartedly in the interest of those dependent on the charitable
heart of the Fraternity. For this, and of this, we are indeed g rateful and
appreciative.

404

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Wills and Bequests
It" is also a matter of pride to the Board to point out the number as well
as the amounts made available to the fund through the creation of wills and
beqm:sts. These sizable sums, caused to be executed in the main by members
of the Fraternity, will be used in swelling the Permanent Endowment Fund of
the Homes program, and, apart from the never-ending good to be accomplished
by the administration of such funds, will live throughout the years as a living
monu~ent t~ the charity and the love of the individual donors. May we say
here, in paying our respects to those who have named the Endowment Fund
as beneficiary to their .ennobling motives of human compassion, that no words
c;if ours, however much they may be filled with the warmth of approbation and
u.nderstanding, ~ould po~sibly equal the actions of thanks, and the glorified
sign~ls of happiness and contentment on. the faces of our helpless wards, now
and m the ~ears to come. One may not purchase, as a commodity, either happiness for ch1ldhood, nor peace and contentment for old age but in ·the Masonic
catalogue of charity an avenue has been created for the ~rovision of a background where these qualities naturally apply and develop, and fortunate indeed
are. those whose hearts feel, and whose eyes lead them to the gates, beyond
which dwell the God-given virtues of brotherly-love and benevolence. The
number of bequests this year offers definite proof that there live among us
brethren whose hearts are attuned to the needs of our wards and whose
deter!11ination .to carry oi:i to the. best of their individual abilities, are signalized
as milestones in the charitable history of the Fraternity.
Everlasting Monuments
In connection with that part of the program dealing with wills and bequests, it may b~ mentioi:ied that this phase offers a fertile fiel<i, as yet almost
u~touch~, d~sp1t~ the sizable amounts contributed during the past years. A
wider dissemination of factual information, as well as · a recitation of the
bene~olent aspects of this portion of the Homes project, is of prime necessity
and importance. The Board believes that were the matter brought consistently
to the attention of those making wills and testaments, that a large percentage
woul~ gladly take advantage of the opportunity extended of making their
donati~ns count th.e ~ost. in permanency and administrative good. Throughout
the entire fie!~ of insbtut1onal care, there is none greater than that represented
by the Masonic. H?mes program of California and Hawaii. This fact is general~y known within the bounds of the organization, and, to a certain extent,
outside, as many social and welfare agencies thrqughout the State after
making exhaustive investigations of Home life at Decato and Covin~ have
voluntarily written reports of commendation regarding general conditions
existing there. Back of the entire plan of the Homes program is the ideal first
envisioned by the early · pioneers of the movement, of creating a Home {n the
truest sense of the word, where fatherless and motherless children of tender
age could be enfolded in the love of a great Fraternity, and where the elders
after a life-time spent · in active Masonry, could retire to their Home for th~
~unset of their lives. This institution-this Home-this ideal-presents a glor1ous .and unsurpassed. opportunity to those blessed with the world's goods, of
erecting an everlasting monument, dedicated in their names and endowed
throughout the coming years with the exalted virtues of devou~ understanding
and sympathy.
Attorney Members of the Craft
The Board desires to record its thanks to attorney members of the Fraternity, whose interest and assistance in the prepa.ration of wills and bequests
has been an outstanding contribution to progress made in this sphere of activ-

405

ities during the past year. The Board, realizing the need of an authentic
directory of facts regarding the Homes, as well as an instrument of assistance
in planning the legal disposition and properties, prepared and distributed such
a booklet to Masters and attorneys throughout the jurisdiction, and· the remarkable response from members of the bar has been one of the highlights of the
year's program. The brochure, under the title of "Homes, Truly Masonic," we
feel will continue to serve the double purpose of acting .as a constant reminder
and assistance to attorneys preparing wills, as well as presenting properly any
claims the Homes may have as a possible beneficiary in the legacies of those
desirous of writing a remembrance therein.
Home Visitations
Concrete proof of the keener interest displayed in the Homes program was
the constantly increasing visitations made during the current year. This evidence of solicitude and interest in the welfare of our Home guests has been
a very heartening factor in the sum total of the year's efforts, and has added
materially to the contributions, gifts and remembrances accorded the g!!neral
program. The Board has consistently advocated visitations, both for the individual member, and for group visits from constituent Lodges, and it is interesting
to note that those Lodges making such visits have been in the forefront in size
and number of contributions. The reason for this is readily understandable.
The member who pays a visit to either of the two Homes sees for himself the
magnitude of the project,-the splendid home-like atmosphere that prevails,the smoothly conducted business management ;-the total lack of disciplined
restraint, and the natural home-life of the children; he sees the elders at
Decato living in a congenial atmosphere of cordiality and friendship, impossible
to associate with institutionalized charity; he meets the superintendents of the
Homes, John M. Downen at Covina and Frank B. Hartman at Decato, and
is impressed with the fitness of these outstanding men for the task they have
undertaken and are pursuing, capably, sincerely, and with that vital something
which in time of war would be called meritorious service-over and beyond
the call of duty. He sees all these things and more, and is impressed, not so
much with the scope and power of this magnificent thing his Fraternity has
created, as with the thrilling thought that HE is a part of it; that HE is
one of the builders; that here his strength of correlated effort is embodied
in a mountain of constructive service, and that he is further empowered by his
affiliation to enlarge and to prolong this structure, emblematic of Masonic
tradition. HIS HORIZON HAS BEEN LIFTED and he now sees with the
clarity of nearness the Home program in its true perspective, no longer
remote and visionary, but proximate and real.
Open Invitation to Visitors
For the many reasons enumerated, the Board urges the continuance of
visits from those who have done so in the past, and suggests a closer association
from those who have not taken advantage of the open invitation extended by
the management and our Home guests. A · closer, more cordial relationship,
beneficial to both members and family, is 'bound to result. The Homes appreciate the interest shown; the children and eiders like to feel that they are truly
in the hearts and minds of the members, and the members themselves :are
infinitely bettered by a wider understanding of Home affairs and by the warmth
of human contact with those less fortunate than themselves.
In this connection, however, the Board suggests that when a pilgrimage is
planned, the Sl.lperintendent be notified prior to the date of visitation in order
that proper preparations be made for the visiting delegation. It is likewise
advisable that group visits also be announced beforehand, as certain hours

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

406

407

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

are set aside for the uninterrupted association of Home members and brethren,
which, if ascertained in advance, will make the visit far more enjoyable than
one undertaken in a haphazard manner. The Board again extends a cordial and
continual invitation to every member of the jurisdiction to visit the Homes at
the earliest opportunity and learn, first hand, of the life and activities of our
Home family.
General Program-Trips
During th~ year just closed, it was a source of great pride and thankfulnes·s
to the Board to observe the splendid performances of so many brethren who,
desirous of advancing the ideals and practical purposes of the general program,
served in the vanguard in many ways. Without the sustaining help of these
sincere and capable brethren, the Board would have found the task a difficult,
if not an impossible one. With them the load was eased, the way made clearer
and the results more far-reaching and lasting than it could possibly have been
without their hard work and general support. Too numerous to mention indivi~ual!y, the Board must regretfully, therefore, record its thanks anonymously,
with the hope that each and every contributing member throughout the State
will realize that his efforts and his constructive assistance are registered, if not
in this report, certainly in the hearts of those to whom his efforts were
dedicated.
Included in these efforts were the thousands of man-miles covered, the
innumerable talks, the countless contacts, and the preparation of material concerning the Homes program. In each of these fields, the Board did not suffer
from a lack of willing workers, but found an ever-ready interest and a keen
desire on the part of many brethren, to render understanding service to the
cause of charity. If there could be a highlight to this year's program, already
replete with instances of self-sacrifice and long hours of hard work this voluntary service co1,1ld be rightly termed the epitome of the year's efforts. For
this service 'll!'e are indeed grateful and are highly optimistic regarding the
future safety and well-being of our beloved institutions. In so many hands of
concern, they cannot fail.
Thanks to Officials
To the Board of Trustees of the Homes, who throughout the year worked
in complete harmony with the Endowment Board and who, individually and
collectively, contributed much in time and effort, the Board is deeply grateful.
To the Inspectors we are desirous of according our thanks for the transmission of messages; for the constant contacts maintained throughout the
respective districts, and for adding a cordial note of co-operation and assistance
to the general program. Their efforts were of the highest caliber and rightfully
deserve the thanks of the entire jurisdiction.
The work of the various Masters and Secretaries was but another evidence of the Homes-mindedness of the vast majority of Lodge officials throughout the State. With a seeming lack of concern for their own private affairs,
these brethren worked early and late in carrying out the necessities of the
program, and were instrumental in creating and maintaining a high level of
interest in the general program. Their constructive labors are registered in
renewed regard for our institutions and in the increased number and size of
donations, gifts and bequests made to the fund.
Leadership of the Grand Master
The work of the Grand Master has been an inspiring demonstration of
exalted effort during the whole of the period just closed. His keen knowledge
of the Homes Endowment program; his ready conversance with every detail

connected with the management of the institutions, together with his intensity
of purpose in furthering the educational program, has been an exemplar for
all to see, to admire, and to follow. It has been the "good fortune of the Chairman, as well as other members of the Board, to travel with the Grand Master
and to learn at first-hand of his constant thought and solicitude for those he
has so aptly termed "Our Home Guests." His interest in their welfare is so
great that in numerous addresses made before constituent Lodges he has never
failed to mention the definite obligation placed upon the entire jurisdiction by
the appeal of their combined love and trust. With all the powers at his command the Grand Master has aided and furthered the program to the utmost
of his ability and care. He has labored diligently in the vineyards of charity,
and the program has been immeasurably bettered because of his keen. perception of Home affairs, and because of his constant solicitude for ·the welfare
of our wards. The Board could express no greater thanks to our Grand Master
for his outstanding services, than to assure him of the continued regard of
those who have had the rare privilege of working with him, and of certifying
the esteem and genuine affection in which he is held at Decoto and Covina.
Visit to Hawaii
In June of this year it was the pleasure of the Chairman to make a trip
to the Hawaiian Islands in the company of the Grand Master. The hospitality,
the genial fellowship and the innate courtesy of our island brethren made the
short sojourn one of unadulterated enjoyment and one long to be remembered.
Your Chairman was impressed with the many outstanding achievements of the
various Lodges, but was wholly unprepared to receive the evidence, everywhere,
of an intimate knowledge of Home affairs, as well as a remarkable 'response
consistently accorded the general Homes program. Here, in this island empire,
3000 miles removed from the mainland, was a keen understanding of Home
problems, a strong determination to be a vital and necessary part of the program, with a resultant flow of contributions to the fund, equalling, and in some
cases, exceeding those received from California Lodges, numerically larger and
financially stronger. In each of the Hawaiian Lodges we found proverbial
Hawaiian hospitality and charity allied with the benevo-lent traditions of
Masonry, which in· expression eradicated the miles between and became a vital
an<I- indispensable part of the jurisdiction's Home Endowment program. T he
Board gladly records its awareness of the consideration giveri the program
by: the Hawaiian brethren and expresses its deep appreciation for general
co-ordination and support.
Contribute Any Time
During the year the Board has essayed by personal contacts and letters
to eradicate the fairly prevalent idea that only during the month of May are
contributions acceptable. This attempt has met with some degree of success, but
greater efforts to remove this erroneous impression must be continued if members are to be properly informed on the subject of year-round donations.
Standing as it does merely as a calendar symbol rather than a period in which
donations are to be made, the month of May should be considered as a culminating and reckoning interval in the year's work of remembrance, because,
just as the demands made by the Homes are constant and perplexing, just in
even ratio should the combined. care of the Craft be registered in day-by-day,
week-by-week, and month-by-month solicitude and regard. We cannot avoid,
nor do we care to avoid, this ever-present responsibility to our Family; we
cannot "fulfill the law of charity" by an occasional gift or thought, but must,
with unswerving watchfulness, meet the trust with every-day devotion. To
those blest with a sufficiency of the world's goods, and for whom sizable

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

409

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

contributions will not constitute sacrifices, the Board earnestly requests periodic
donations throughout the year without regard to the calendar period selected
annually as a summation of 'the year's efforts. To those (to quote the Grand
Master) "whose hearts are as great as their purses are small" the Board
suggests a budgetary system of allocating their donations regularly throughout
the year, rather than making a large annual contribution, which would, perhaps,
entail too great a personal sacrifice. By following this suggestion those with
limited funds, by judiciously prorating their donations without impairing their
own home and personal necessities, may keep the faith and preserve their
privileges of co-operation to the ideal represented by the Homes. While it is
true that those donations are nobler when accompanied by self-denial and
sacrifice, the Board has, in no wise, advocated nor requested contributions from
brethren whose financial conditions forbade it. The Board believes, however,
that the ultimate dream of a complete and adequate endowment for all time,
can only be achieved by the active and regular participation of every Craftsman
in the jurisdiction.
Recommendations
For the coming year the Board has few recommendations. Beiieving that
the educational program has proven worthy and meritorious, its continuation
is strongly urged; and, in order that the plan may be exercised to the fullest
extent, we solicit the creation 'o f a working fund consistent with the amplitude
of the work at hand. We recommend the continuation of the relationship built
up during the current year between Lodges and Homes; and lastly, we strongly
suggest that attorney members of the Craft enlarge their activities among
clients desirous of leaving their worldly goods to a cause, humanitarian, benevolent and lasting.
In order that your Board may function during the ensuing year, we therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
"Resolved, that the sum of six thousand dollars be and is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be paid to the Masonic Homes
Endowment Board for its expenses for the year ending October 1, 1938."
It has been the happy privilege of the Board to serve the jurisdiction
during the past year in this constructive program of brotherly love and charity.
Under the inspirational leadership of the Grand Master, furthered by innumerable instances of co-operation and. support from officials and members, the
work has been made less arduous, our efforts less difficult. Crowned with some
degree of success, the Board, in reviewing the endeavors of the past year,.
acknowledges the honor of representing this major program and records its
pride in the heartening results of material and spiritual benefits for those
placed under the shield of Masonic protection.
The Heritage of Fraternalism
Our wards at Decoto and Covina, in reposing their trust in the traditional
benevolence of Masonry, have presented a magnificent challenge to the ideals
of the Craft. Otherwise homeless and friendless were it not for the shelter
provided by the altruistic faith of the Fraternity, our charges are more than a
material responsibility. Representing, as they do, those who have given a
life-time of service to the cause of Masonry, and who, through no fault of
their own, were brought face to face with disillusionment, neglect and despair,
representing, as they do, the innocents, who through the mysterious ways of
Divine Providence, were deprived of the support, the strength and the love of
parents; representing as they do the opening and closing chapters of life's
book-the children and the elders-the magnificent endeavors of the Masonic
Homes program transcends the material and soars into the spiritual. And it 1s
this spiritual appeal that offers challenge to the best within us. We must answer

that challenge; we must provide that bulwark of material protection. We must
maintain that spiritual panacea for the lonely and the orphane~, so th~t when
we open the Book of Life for the children, we may do so with the JOY and
pride of promise, and when the last chapter is .read and the book reverently
closed, we may justly say: We have kept the faith, for these are the, precepts
of Masonry, these are the Homes, truly Masonic.
Fraternally submitted,
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
FRANK M. SMITH
WM. RHODES HERVEY
ROBERT B . GAYLORD
REYNOLD E. BLIGHT
ARTHUR
CRITES
EUGENE
ELKUS
EDMUND A. LocKETT
Jos. L. SHELL
HARRY F. WHITE

s.
s.

WILLIAM P. FILMER
DR. E RNEST G. BASHOR
Louis
DRAPEAU
HOWARD B. KIRTLAND
JOHN F. P ULLEN
HALCOTT B. THOMAS
T. M. WRIGHT

c.

Report of Lodge Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund

No.

Lodge

Location

.

1

Califorhia..................- .............. San Francisco ............-····-..···"--··..$

3

Tehaina..:..................................Sacramento ...........................................

2 Western Star............................ Shasta .............~..................- ............

5 Benicia.......................................Benicia -······-··-······-······-····--······-····

Cash

67.00
34.00
110.50

~~~~-~.~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i-:lo.~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::~:::

24.50
58.00
66.46
15.00

14 Temple.......................................Sonoma ............................................._

9.50

8
9
10

12
13
16

17
18

19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
30
32
33

35
37
38
40
41
42

Tuolumne............................:..... Sonora ................- .........._..................
Corinthian.................................M;arysville ......................................- .•
N evada._:.......~ .....:., ...................Nevada City ...............,,................--

Eureka.......................................Auburn ....................- ...........................
La Parfaite Union...................San Francisco ...................- ...........
Mountain Shade...................... Downieville ........................................
San J oaquin.........................._..Stockton ...............................................
W ashington .................... _........Sacramento ...........................,.....,...._,..
Hawiliian.......'............................;Elonolulu, T. H .................................. .
Occidental................................. San Francisco ..,..........................,..Madison.........~----·;··.............. -Gra~s Valley ...:·-········..··-·-..............
M ariposa ...................................Manposa · ····-········-······--..··-···.·-·'....:..·Georgetown..............................Georgetown .........................................
El Dorado...................:............. Placerville ............................................
Trinity..........................,.......7.....Weaverville ..........................................
Golden Gate..............................San Francisco ---·-···-·······················

~:F~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::jtE~~r:~~::=::::::::::=:=:=::=:::=:=:==:::::

Howard......................................Y reka ..................................- ...- ........
Santa Cruz.....................·........... Santa Cruz ...............................- .•.......
Sacratnento...............................Sacramento .......................................
Martinez....................................Martinez ................................................
Los Angeles..•..... ~.....'............,_.Los Angeles ···--···-······-·-·---········-····
43 Hiram....................- .•................ El Dorado ...........................................
44 Mount Mo~iah ..........................San Franci.sco ........................-_,...,..
45 Crescent...............·-·--···---Crescent City ...,..........,.... _._,.,,. ..,-.

12.00
195.33
71.50
392.00
62.50
15.00
44.00
37.00
15.00
98.50
13.00
............!..

12.50
18.50
55.00
21.50
213.00
87.50
13.SQ

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

410

411

PlWCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Lodg(!
Location
46 Texas.....•.................•.....•............ San Juan Bautista ..............................
SO Forbestown.............•....•............Forbestown ·············-····-···········-········
51 111inoistown...........- ....••.•......... Colfax ..,.....•.............·-······-·················
55 Suisun.... -········-························F;airfield ................................................
56 Volcano •...•......- ........................ Volcano ·················-····-·······················
57 Santa Rosa ................................ Santa Rosa ..........................................
58 Union ....•.................................. _Sacramento ..........................................
59 Gravel Range ................,•..........Camptonville ···················-················-·
60 Piumas .......................................Quincy ..................................................
61 Live Oak•.......................•.......... Oakland ...................................•............
64 Natoma....•............•....................Folsom City ........................................
65 Amador•.........................•....•......Jaokson ·····································-···········
66 Forest .•.....................- ................ Alleghany ···················-·······················
68 Morn.ing Star....................:........ S~kton ..............................................
70 Enterprise.................•...........•. _Yuba City ............................................
76 Bear MOuntain .........................Angels Camp ......................................
78 Calaveras ...................•.....•..•...•. San Andreas ........................................
79 Humbolt.........•..........................Eureka ..................................................
80 Ione .......- ...•.......•...•.................•.Ione ........................................•...............
81 Yolo..••.•,•.__ ...................._..••••;•. Yolo ····················································84 Vesper....................: ..........•.....•..Red Bluff ······························-·············
87 Naval::..................................•.....Vallejo ..................................................
89 Rose'·s -Bar.................................Smartsvilte -·······-·····•····-·····-······-···-·
91 Nor th Star~............,.................. Fort Jones ................................... ~ ........
93 • St. Helena.c............................... St-. Helena ·······-···································
95 Henry Clay::.....;.....•................. Sutter Creek ........................................
98 Hornitos.•.................................. Hornitos ..............................................
99 Yosemite:.........................- .......MEir.eed ..................................................
101 Clay.!.-:................................. _...Putch Flat ..........................................
103 OrovH!e.:.....•.......•...•................. OroviUe ................................................
104 Lexington .•..............•...............• EI Monte ···········-·-···-··········-·············
106 Afcata.,..- ..........•......•................ Arcata ..................................................
110 Pajaro.............................•.....•••.. Watsonville ·······-··············-·················
111 Chico ...................•.•.•..........•.••....Chico ················································-····
112 Shmmit...................................... Knight's Ferry ············-····-····•···-·······
113 Eden .......................•................-.San Leandro ........................................
117 C-0ncord.....................................Sacramento ···························-··········-·
119 Clinton'•························-··········.Igo ..................•.......................................
120 Fidelity...................................... San Francisco ....................................
1l2 Alamo;...... _............................... Walnut Creek.::.......:..............................
123 Sotoyome .........................•........Healdsl!mrg· ..........................................
124 Table Mountain ....................... Cherokee ..............................................
126 Lafayette.,..............................•..Sebastopot ............................................
127 Hermann...................................San Francisco ......................................
128 Visatia........................................Visalia ....................................................
129 Nicolau!!.:.................................. Wheatland ·······························-···········
131 Woodbridge.•..........••.....••.....- ..Woodbridge ..........................................
132 Sincerity.:............... _.•...............Greenville ..............................................
134 · VacaviUe........·-···················-····Vacaville -····--·····················-······-·······
135 Valley:.................................•..•...Linden ..................................................
136 Pacific.............................- ....•.... San Francisco .........
139 Crockett......................-·····-·-···San Francisco ·····-·····························
140 Curtis......................................... Cloverdale ............................................
141 Grafton.......•................._•.......... Knight's Landing ·····-··············-·····d •••••••••••••••••••••••••

Cash

50.00

141.00
27.50
574.25
77.00
41.00
47.00
7.00
12.00

213.00
24.23
25.00
49.53
99.00
47.50
70.00
17.00
10.00
57.50
125.50
35.00

86.00

40.00
97.00
19.00
23.50

No.
143

144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210

Cash
Lodge
Location
41.00
Franklin....................- •..•.••.•.- Courtland .........................,...............•.
Oriental ..................................... San Francisco .................................... 220.00
3.00
Vitru'lliUs·-····························...Bloomfield ···········-················-·············
Abell ...........................................Ukiah ...'. ...............................................•
Eel River...................................Fortuna ··············································Lassen..••........ - ...............•...•......Susanville ..............................................
53.00
Molmo............•...................•.......Tehama ..................................•........•......
W oo.dland .... - .•..•...............•...•.•.W oodland ············-································
Keystone ...........••......................M-ilton .....................................................
Harmony............ _.....................Sierra City ..........................•..............•
Excelsior .•.....;••.•••_.....•......•....•. San Francisco ······-··········-················ 257.50
71.50
Alameda .................................... Centerville ............................................
16.00
Redwood City.........•.................Redwood City ·········-·························
Mission...........•.......................... San Francisco .................................... 137.00
Elk .Grove .........,,,........... ~ ............Elk Grove ......................:..................... 125.50
Dryt-0wn....................................Plymouth ..............................................
8.00
Antioch ......................................Antioch ....................,_...........................
77.08
Phoen.ix...........................•........;San Bernardino .~ ................................
MendocinQ................................Mendocino ............................................
18.00
Petaluma.......................•........... Petaluma ..............................................

~~~~:1:.'.:.~~:::::::~::::::::::::::::::·':::c~fe :::::::=::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Clear L.ake...............................•Lower Lake ..........................................
Sierra Valley..........................;..Sierraville ............................................
Claiborne.................................:.Point Arena ...............................,..........
Evening Star ...........................:Etna ···················································-···
Keith ......................................... :.Gitroy ...........................................•........
Oakland ..................................:..Oakland ...........................••..•.•.•....•..••..•
Northern Light .................•......Mnlville ··································-············
Marin .........................................5an Rafael .........................................,
Santa Barbara.......................... Santa Barbara ....................................
Ferndale .................................... Ferndate ................................................
Mountain View........................Mountain View ..................................
Buckeye ..................................... Winters ·······················-····················-·
San Simeon ........................•...... Cambria ..........................•....•........•......•
Wilmington .............................. Wilmington ....................................,.•...
Har~ley ......................................Lakeport ................................................
Trut:kee ......................................Truckee ··········-······-··..·······•••··••···•····•··•
SilveyviUe......................•...........Di~on ························-·······················...
Pentalph.a•.......................•......... Los Angeles ·····················-············..···
Confideflce ................................ Castroville ............................................
Saltnas_......................................Salinas ...............................................-.
0 livet......•................................;.Corning ................................................-.
Stanislaus ..................................Modesto ................................................
Anaheim ....................................Anaheim ................................................
Rio Vista................................... Rio Vista ..............................................
King David's •.............•............. San Luis Obispo .................•.....•.,.••..•
Friendship .................................San Jose ................................................
211 San Benito...............................:.San Benito ··············-············~··· ..........
212 South San Frandsco ............... San Francisco ......................................
214 San Buenaventura ...................Ventura ..................................................
215 Oak Grove ............................... ~Alameda .....................................- .........
216 Doric.......................................... San Francisco ....................................
217 Monterey.............................?••..;.Monterey ...................·-·············-········

9.00
5.50

213.00
14.00
155.00
7.00

63.00
100.00

107.00

46.00
22'.50

22r.5o
60.00
39.50
41.00
44.50

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Lodge
Location
218 Mosaic..,..... ~··················---~.--1.ivermore ············-············--····-··-·
219 Speranza Italiana...........,........ San Francisco -····-····--···-··········220 Downey.....................................Downey ···········-···········-····--··--·---221 Inyo...., .....-······-·······················]ndepe_ndence ···········-·--··--····-·······222 .~oseville ....................................Roseville - ................._......·-···············224 ..~aker~field.,..........................,...Bakersfield -·····-·········-··-··-·····-··225 : Brooklyn......_............,................. Oakland ············-·······-····--····-····--2~6 San Mateo,._.,.........................,...San Mateo ........................-..................

~~~ .~~~e::.::~:~:::::::::::=::::=::::=:=::::::~:Tt~j ;···::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::-~:::::-:

230 :North_Bu_tte ...,.,..,.....................Gridley ······-···-··················-····--·-·~
23.l, Covelo........................................Covelo ····················-·-················--·-···
232 · J ane~ville ...,........._-.....,............Janesville -~·-·······-·············-·-······-····233 Calistoga.................................... Calistoga ·······--···..-·-·····-·······-····-·
234 :Hop_e.,...............:........................ Beckwith ·····-·-···-····-····-······--·-·····
~~~ .~~rprise Valley................._...,... Cedarvill~ ············-··········--·--··-··.
ills_Ferry..,.............,...............Newman ······-···-····-··-·--··········-·-·-·
~~~ , Guadalupe......,.........•................ Guadalupe _:········-····-·······--·--·-Colusa.....................................•.. Colusa ·····--·-····-····-·-······--··-·241 r Santa_Aria...........~ ......................Santa Ana ............................:...............
242 Magnci'lia................................... Santa. Barbara ......................................
243 ··Eucalyptus................................Hayward .........................................;......
24.4 Alcatraz.....................................Oakland ............._...............................245 Lauret..::...~................~..............Willows ................................................

~:~ ~~=~~-~:::::::::.·:::.·::::::.·:::.~::.·::::::.-.-.;~:~:i..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.~=-~=:::
248 Alturas:....................................:.Alturas ···············-·······-······-·-··---·250 -Adin::......;...:.:.............................Adin ......................................................
253 'Landmark.:.:..............................Esparto ·················-········-···--····-·
254
- ...Redding
·······-·-··········-···----·--·255 -Reading
W 1 . . ................................
.
. .
.

256

Lo~~~~.~.:::~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::t:i~~~.,:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-~::::-··:-:

GRAND LODGE . OF CALIFORNIA

Cash
64.00
150.50
13.50
30.00

153.00
58.50
85.00
26.50
105.00
30.00

6.00
44.00
64.50

45.00
40.00
19.00
9.00
365.00
17.00

Penrhyn.....................................Penrhyn :..........................- ...........:......
Evergre·e·n.........~.......................Riverside ...:..........·-·-·-···-·········-···King Solomon's................- ..... San Francisco ···················-··-··-·-······

52.50
21.00
44.00
108.50
25.00

264 Hesperfan..;...;.•:::.............:.........Santa Maria ........................................
265 · N
Orland:;:
Orland ································-·--·-···
266
fiE ..:... ::..•..~.:........:.:................
. F
267 rG:ftt:···· ~st.•::::::·····-.·······-,··-····· Ort Bidwell ···········-···-···-···-··:-···
. -···-··-·····--·····················Galt ················-·--····-·····-·····--··268 Durant..:..:.........:.:....:..........- ..•Berkeley ·············-·············--···•-···-269 ·olive Branch ..;....:...:........ ~....... Tulare ····-·········-··-········-·--·- ·~~ :.· ~now ~ountain ......:...............•Stonyford ..............................:.....: .•::

51.00
10.00
23.50

258
259
260

~~~ .I~:;~~::::::::~:::::.·:.·::::::::::~::::::::::~~::s. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

A~~~~~~~.:::·.::::::·.::::::::::::::::.::·.::::~::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::-..~::::::::::

273 .
274 "Arro·jio.....:.....;.~...:.......:........,..... Arroyo Grande ··············-····-·-·-········
275 ·oakdale...................:.................Oakdale ......................•.......-................
277 Selm·a.:...................................:..•Selma ··················-·····-···-..····-···-·"'278 ·southern California.................Los Angeles ...............,........,.........•.......
279 · Han'ford...............•..:..................Hanford ··················-·r·.....:.._,..•.- .....•
280 . Madera........:..:........'.........._.......Madera .................................................
281 M · Sh
·
.
.
~fn~ .asta....................•...-Anderson ······-···-···-··········-···-····--···
282 ··c
. S a ayomi....._. ................,...........Middletown ·:····-·················---·-········
283
outh West...............................National City -···-····--·········-·········-·

35.50
122.43 .
12.50
7.50
159.00
20.00
28.00

No.
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297"
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343

Lodge .
Location
San Miguel................................San Miguel ..........................................
Paso Robles..............................Paso Robles ........................................
Winnedumah............................Bishop ...............................:................ _

413
Cash

10.00
5.00

1

~~fn::~--------~_._._._._._._._._~_._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._._·~~~1~~~:~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::~~
East Gate....................•............~.Lo! Angeles ........................................
Santa Paula...............................Santa Paula ........................................
Los Ga-tos.......•..........................Los Gatos .....................................•.......•
Orange Grove............•...........-<Jrange ················································-Traver........................................Kingsburg ............................................
Mt. Jackson...............................Guerneville ............................................
Silver Gate................................ San Diego ..............................................
Dunsmuir....................- ............Dunsmuir ..................•...........................
Liberty.......................................Santa Clara ······-··································
Redlands ................................... Redlands ................................................
Ontario......................................Oniario ······-····-····················-·············
Santa Lucia...............................King City ............•............................•..,.
Porterville.................................Porterville ............................................
Reedley......................................Reedley ..................................................
Azusa.................•....................... A.zusa -·········-·······································Ashlar..........................•............. Colton ...................................................•
Santa Monica......................,.....Santa Monica ........................................
Monrovia...................................Monrovia ..............................................
Delano,................................•......Delano ..................................................
Sissort.........................................Mount Shasta .....................................•
Los Banos..........................- ..... Los Banos ························-··········•·······
Tehachapi................................. Tehachapi ..............................................
Temescal................................... Corona ..................................................
N orwal~.....................................N orwalk ·······································- ·······
Sanger........................................Sanger :.-·····- ····-····-··········-·········-·-Fallbrook.................................. Fallbrook ............................................ _
Eman uel........................:...........Biggs ···- ······························-········-····Hollenbeck................................Los Angeles ·······································South Gate........•......................•Los Angeles .......•................................••
Alisal.....................•....•...............Pleasanton ·······-·········•···········-············
Alhambra.............•.....................Alhambra ..............................................
Whittier.....................................Whittier •...................•............•........••...•
Corona....................................... Pasadena ··············-····-················-········
Consuelo.............•.;....................Escondido ·······-····-··········-·············-··
Needles...............•................•..... Needles ···································-········-Long Beach...............................Long Beach ..........................................
Redondo....................................Redondo Beach .........:.......·-···············
Vallee de France......................Los Angeles ...................................:...._
Kilauea.......................................Hilo, T. H. ···························-····-····•
Pacific Grove............................Pacific Grove ........................................
San Pedro.....................•..........•.San Pedro ..........................•.•...............
Alta...........•..•.....:...- ..................Bridgeport ............................................
Covina........................................Covina ....................................................
West Gate................•...•............ Los Angeles .........................................
Fruitvale.............................•......Oakland ................................................
Carquinez..................................Crocl<ett ................................................
San Jacinto................................San Jacinto ..........................................
Fullerton................................... Fullerton ...............................................•
Oxnard.................•.....................Oxnard ··········~·······················-··-·······
San Fernando...........................San Fernando ·······-·············-··············

19.94
207.00
15.00
9.00
8.00
114.00
34.50
89.00
12.00
11.00

22.00
! ...........

7.00
42.50
17.00
27.50
28.50
134.75
2.00
10.00
21.50
8.00
137.00
203.21
12.00
98.00
468.33
36.00
114.00

104.50
850.50
31.00
46.00
260.75
46.50
10.00
108.00
78.00
68.00

414
No.
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
3S3
3S4
355
3S6
3S7
3S8
3S9
360
361
362
363
36S
366
367
368
369
370
371

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Location
Starr King.................................San Francisco ....................................

!~i2!~~~::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::!2~:~~~ . :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::

San Bernardino......................:.San Bernardino ....................................

~~;;u~~f;~;~f~;i;~~~~=;;~\;=J~~=~

Mill Valley................................ Mill Valley ···········-·····························
Buena Park...............................Buena Park ..........................................
Golden State............................. Los Angeles ························-··············
Loyalton..................................-..Loyalton ................................................
S
' ...........................San Francisco ....................................
Fan F;anc1sco

~i£~~~~f~i~~~~~~~~.~~<~--:~~::f:{;~~~
So~th Pasadena......................•South

Pasadena ..................................

~:~:~~~~::::::::::::~::::::::::=~~:~~~~~L~:::::::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : :

~~ogres de l'Oceanie...........Honolulu, T. H ...................................

372

r ena.'·······--·-···················.. Gardena ................................................
373 Veter.an·-··················'.-··········-West Los Angeles ·········---·····-·-----·--374 {:.w.el.............-·-·-········---San Francisco ········-··-··-··-····-····-·-··-··-·
375
1chmoruL......-··--········-········San Francisco
376 Francis Drake..·-··········-····-··--.San Francisco ·····---········-······-······-·······
377 Artesia.... ~·-·-··-'··-··--··.:......•Buena Park ····················-···········-·····
378 Mi;pah........,,.........·-··-·············Los Angeles ........................................
379 ·i;llm?re.......,........ _...................Fjllmore ...... :::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
380 0 untm,~ton Beach................... Huntington Beach ····························381
H"ceans1de
hi
P.................................. Qceanside ····--·-···--··············-·-············382
1g and arlc................- .....•. Los Angeles
383
0
384
38S Dmuba........·---······-············---Dinuba
387 Coalinga_......- ....... _.•..........---Coalinga --············-·--·-···········-·····--···········
388 Parnassus ...................__________ ...... san Fran~i·~~~-·····u·····················u·····--·
389
390
391
ast eJt.......•..........................•Tuolumne
392 West Lake,.......................--~····Los Angel~~-··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
393 Balder,.............................--··--.San Francisco
394
395
396
397 Rising Light........................... ~Huntington Park ·--·············--·············
399
400
401
402 Brawley...·-··········-···--...Brawlcy ····························-············-·····

~r~~~t;·;::::::=:.~:::::::=.::::~f ~e~t~~-··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
~l;:~~f.~.~~-~.".'.'.'.'~.-.~~-~.'.'.'.':.'~::::::~~;!ri~~a~~--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

r~~~~~~-~~::::::::::~:::~~~:::::~:::::r=}:e~~~::::::~~~~~~-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

::~i~~;:~~~~~~~~~:.~~::::.~~~~~-~~~~~--:.~~~!~~~:::::::::::::::::: : : : : :~: : : : : : : :

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cash

46.SO
23.00
42.SO
Sl.00
121.SO
100.00
S7.01
40.00
101.00
109.00
S6.00
6.00
14S.SO
8.00
76.SO
7.SO
61.SO
17S.SO
64.00
100.00
177.SO
36.SO
812.00
10.00
46.SO
2S.OO
81.00
127.00
10.00
136.00
40.00
4S.OO
S.00
80.00
4.SO
4S.OO
29.00
12.SO
69.00
46.00
20.00
269.10
S.00
32.SO
92.00
76.SO
36.00
111.SO
16.SO
2S.OO

41S

Cash
Lodge
Location
No.
2S.S3
403 Yerba Bucna.............................Oakland ·¥···································-········
13.00
404 Glendora....................:...............Glendora ··········--···············-·················80.00
40S Moneta._., ... -.~·····-·········-·····--·.Los Angeles .........................................
8.00
406 Burbank.....................................Burbank ................................................
407 La Mesa•...•....- ..........................La Mesa .............................N••··········-·
28.80
408 Sierra Madre..,..........................Sicrra Madre ......................................
207.00
Honolulu
...................................
Honolutu;
T.
H
..................................
.
409
69.00
410 Charter Rock............................Berkeley ................................................
34.02
411 Perris.............,.,.-...................... Perris ....................................................
412 Cat~ico.....................................Calexico ····························-·-·············-·
413 \Vaucoba.........................-,.......Big Pine···············-······························94.00
414 Arlington.........-·····--···············Los Angeles ........................................
44.00
41S Silver Trowel...............,............Los Angeles ..........................................
416 Lindsay ........................_............Lin<lsay ..................................................
417 Clovis.....................•...................Clo.vis ................................................•...
418 Elysian.........................,......,......Los Angeles ........................................ 147.SO
4.SO
419 Upland .......................................Upland ................................................1.00
420 Kerman ........_ .........•...............~Kerman ······-······--················----·········42.00
421 Inglewood.................................Inglewood ............................................
68.SO
422 Eagle Rock............................... Los Angeles ............'............................
63.SS
Yorlc.
..........................................
Los
Angeles
.......................................
.
423
74.00
424 Exeter........................................Exeter- ....................................................
1.20
42S Holtville.....................................Holtville ................................................
82.SO
426 Midway.._..................................Taft ····-·---···············-···············---············
2.SO
427 Chino Valley....- ......•................Chino ......................................................
S2.00
428 San Dimas.........................- ......San Dimas ············-········-····-················
429 Pitts burg........ ~.......................... Pittsburg ..............................................:.
77.79
430 McCloud....................................McCloud ................................................
54.SO
431 Alpha................'..........- ..............Ricbmond ..............................- ...............
19.2S
Hammonton
.............................
Hammonton
.......................................
.
433
2S.OO
434 Maricopa..................................•Maricopa ······························-············9.SO
43S Fairmount .................................San Francisco ....................................
436 Claremont.................................Claremont ··········-························-··-22.00
437 Lancaster··················-··········-··-·Lancaster ····························-················
47.00
438 Acacia.......•.- .•...................~..•...• T~os Angeles ··················-·····················27.00
439 Tyrjan...................................,....Mantcca ................................................
46.00
440 Standard.............................._ ...Oakland ······························-···-··········
24.00
441 Coronado................- ................Coronado ................................................
73.00
442 Blackmer...................................San Diego ............................................
108.2S
443 Schofield....- ..............................Schofield Barracks, T. H .................
2S.OO
444 Carpinteria....- ...:..-...................Carpinteria ··························-··········-··
SS20
44S Wilshirc..........- .........................Los Angeles ··········-···················-····-····
446 L:J. Pucntc................................. Puente ·--·············-···············-················
28.00
447 Torrance...................- .............•Torrance ·························-····················
6S.SO
448 Mount Diablo...........................Concord ··············-·-······························
S7.50
449 Park.................................,..........San Francisco ...............,...................... 147.SO
Van
Nuys
..............
................•.
Van
Nuys
··························-·-·-····-····450
SS.SO
4Sl Montebello................................Montebello ............................................
2S.OO
4S2 San Pasqual..........- ..................Pasadcma ·················--···········-········-······
14S.50
4S3 Bethlehem......- ........................San Francisco ....................................
28.00
4S4 Crocker-·-·········-···········-····-····Daly ·City ······--················-··---····-····26.00
4SS Golden Wcst................- .......... San Francisco ········-····-·-···--············
4S7 Ramona ......:..............................Monterey Park ······-······-···- ·········-···
63.98
4S8 Henry S. Orme ..............:......... Los Angeles ................................•......•
4S9 River.bank..............................._.Riverbank ············-·························-·-·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

4i6

No.
460
461
462
463
464
46S
466
467
468
469
470
471

472

473
474
47S
476

477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484
48S
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
49S
496
497
498
499

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Location
. Cash
Mount Oso................................ifr~cy ..........................................:.........
19.50
Argonaut...................................San Francisco ....................................
73.50
Paul .Reve're ..............................San Francisco ..............................,.....
30.SO
Morgan Hill............................_Morgan Hill ........................................
5.00
Alta Vista..................................San Francisco .....................................
12.00
Center........................................Fresno ....................................................
Libertas..................................,..Bakersfield .......................................... 131.23
Culver City.........·...................... Culver City ..........................................
18.00
Rockridge..............................,...Oakland ................................................
6.00
Yorba Linda,...·........,.....:..........Yorba Linda ........................................
Lincoln...................................... San Francisco· ......................................
83.SO
Delta............................- ...........Stockton ................................................
29.66
MauL.........................;...............Kahului, Maui, T. H ......................... 2SS.OO
Blythe.......................:................Blythe ....................................................
Victory....................................... San Francisco ......................................
America.....................................Los Angeles ..............:.........................
41.00
Coachella...................................Coachella ....................·................,.........
36.00
2S.OO
Temblor..................................._Fellows ........................................,.......
Thousand Oaks......,.................Berkeley ................................................ . 19.SO
46.SO
Golden Rule..............................San Jose ..............................................
Fellowship................................Oakland ................................................
18.50
Mt. Davidson............................San Francisco ......................................
54.00
Clarence F. Smith................... Los Angeles .......................-................
68.30
Bell..c..........................,...............BeU ......................................................... 188.31
Albert Pike...............................Los Angeles ..........................................
44.00
Chowchilla................................Chowchilla ............................................
39.00
Caled"onia.................................. Bakersfield ............................................
28.50

~;!~:~~:~~:: :·: : : : ·: : : : ~: : : : : :~:~£~~~·: : :~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :

Corcoran......................:...~.......-Corcoran ..............................................
W oodstock................................Alameda ................................:...............
Garvanza...................................Los Angeles ........................................
Atascadero................................ Atascadero ..........................................
Acorn.........................................Qakland ................................................
Lebanon..•................................•San Francisco ......................................
Riverdale...................................Riverdale ..............................................

~~~::~~'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'!.._'.'.'.'.~'.·.·:.'.·.·.:::·.".'.'.".'.'.'.~~=!n " .".".'.".~.".'.".".'.'."."."."."."."."~.~-·- ~·.~- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Capital City...............................Sacramento ..........................................

soo Roosevclt.............................:....San Francisco ......................................

5.00

14.00
17.50
23.50

SOl W cstwood.................................W estwood ............................................
S02 Harbor....~·..................................Richmond ............................................
S03 Point.............. ~........................... Richmond ............................................
48.50
S04 Seaside........................:..............Long Beach ........................................
sos Silver Cord..............~.................Santa Ana ............................................ 17.00
S06 Mou_n t Olive...........,.................Los Angeles ...............,........................ 1,057.58
S07 El Segundo...............................El Segundo ..........................................
35.00
S08 Joppa..........................................San Joaquin ..........................................
5.00
19.50
S09 Benjamin Franklin..................Los Angeles ........................................
SlO
20.00
18.35
Sll
S12
2.00
S13
18.00
S14 Argonne.................................... San Francisco ......................................

~~~~~~-:~~-~;~~:~:~=;:_~$£~:~~~~::~~;

Lodge
Location
Cash
No.
69.33
SlS Vermont Square..................:...Los Angeles ........................................
S16 Taft.......,.•....!......-.-··'"·..•·--··'-Taft ........................................................ 235.50
S17 Mount Vernon.......................... San Francisco ..................:.-................
84.50
S18 La J olla............................·..........La Jolla ····-·····--"·-····-····--····-·-·-10.00
S19 Euclid........................- ..... _ .•...Los Angeles ...................................-.:.
51.00
S20 Ionic......................................~....Los Angeles -········'···-•···............-......
60.00
S21 Piedmont..............................:....Piedmont ..........................--···--·····8.00
522 Sunrise.....................:.................Los Angeles ..........................-···-·-·15.00
S23 B ellflower..........................- .....Bellflower .........,...•...- ...·--····----·· ·-29.oo
S24 Catalina Island............:...........Avalon ..........·..........................--··- ·-·
37.00
S25 George Washington................San Francisco ......................................
17.50
S26 Bay City..............................- ..•San Francisco ...................................,
36.00
S27 Covenant................................~Los Angeles ......................-····---····
25.00
528 Beverly Hills............................... Beverly Hills ......................................
19.00
S29 Loyalty......................................Los Angeles ..................................._
43.00
S30 Sun Garden...............................Fresno .................................................... 147.10
S31 Alexandria.....,.......................... San Francisco ...............- .....- .......... 118.75
S32 Smyrna...........................- .........Ceres --··-·······--···-···--········---···-·
S33 Azure.........................................Fulterton ..............................................
23.00
20.50
S34 Forest Hill................................ San Franci5co ....................................
S35 Alexander Hamilton ...............Los Angeles ........................................ 120.50
41.50
536 Seal Rock..................- ..............San Francisco ......................................
537 Utopia........................................Los Angeles ........................................ 104.88
538 Ascot............................_............Los Angeles ..................................:.....
31.50
S39 Belvedere.................................. Los Angeles ...............- ..................._ ..
30.00
540 Queen Beach............................ Long Beach .........................................;.
5.00
S41 Henry Morse Stephens..........Berkeley .............- ......................_ .......
48.00
542 Lankershim...............................North Hollywood ...................- ........
S43 Signal.........................................Long Beach ........................................
14.00
544 Glendale........- ......._................Glendale ................................................
16.00
S45 Jonathan .................................... San Francisco ................................._
10.00
546 San Gabriel............................... San Gabriel ...................................- ....
5.00
S47
11.00
548
..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 27.00
S49" Just1ce........................................San Francisco ....................................
30.00
550 Seaport.......................................San Francisco ......................................
25.50
S51 Lakeshore.....•...... ~.................... Oakland ...................................- ..........
15.00
S52 Semper Virens..........................Eureka ..............................................._
S53 Golden City.....:...................- ..~San F rancisco ..;............--·---······19.50
SS4 Educator................,,_..................San Francisco ......................................
5S5
52.00
S56
17.50
5S7 He!mos.a....:····...........................Hermosa Beach ..................................
14.00
558 Point F1rmm...............-............ San Pedro ......................._ ...........- ...
66.50
S59 Craftsmen.......,......................... Los Angeles ..........................- .....- ....
67.00
S60 Plymouth..................................Oakland ................................................
23.00
561 East San Diego .................--.. San Diego ...................................:...... ........._.;
S62 Pyramid.-.................--····-····-San Francisco ......................................
32.50
S63 South Park................................Los Angeles ........................................
71.50
S64 Foothill.......'..........-.•......,..........Oaklaod ..,....,.........................................
24.00
S65 West Adams.............................Los Angeles ........................................
29.50
S66 James A. Garfield...................Los Angeles ·······- ········-··-.................
35.00
S67 Searchlight.....................:..........Long Beach ........................................
16.00
S68 Park Boulevard........................Oakland ............_..................................
569 Chateau Thierry...................... Oakland ..............................---···-·-····
16.50

~;fa~!~~-.".".".".~.".".:."."~.".".".".".".".".~.".".".".".".".".".".".~ ¢~~~:a

17.00
25.50
26.00

417

~f;;::..'.~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::.".".".".":~~;tax""··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CAL1FORNIA

Lodge
Location
No.
570 Military Service............•.......... San Francisco ·····························-·······
571 Francis K. Shattuck................ Berkeley ············-······························572 James Madison ........................ Los Angeles ...................... :.................
573 Hillcrest.•..........•...- ............•.~ ... Betkeley -············································
574 S. W. llackett..........•.....- ......•. San Diego -·······---······················-········
575 Fort Crook............•...........•... _•. Fall River Mills ................................•.
576 El Cajon Valley•...................... Et Cajon ................................~ ...........•.•
577 Sunnyside ........•.............•...........Los Angeles ........................................
578 Progressiye ..•.•........•- ...............Los Angeles ........................................
579 Warren G.. Harding................ N or th Sacramento -··························
580 Santa Maria..............................Ramona ······························-················
581 Security............•.•...................... Bakersfield ····································-····
582 Rial to .................•.·-··········-······· Rialto ....................................................
583 Wasc;o.....•.•....•........•......•- .....••••Wasco ..................................•........•-:... _
584 Harding.•.......•.......................•...Los Angeles .....•...........•.................•....
585 Manchester .•·-·'-··············-·····Los Angeles ........................................
586 Garden Grove._....................•..Orange ······-········································587 Valley Foi:ge•.........- .........•......•Los Angeles .......•................................
588 El Sereno.•...••. -···············-····-·Los Angeles ......................................
589 Kauai.. ......••-·············-···-··········Lihue, Kauai, T. H ...........................
590 Compass........••..... ·-···········-·····Pomona ...............................................•
591 Escalon........•......•....·-·········-··· Escalon ....................................•...•.......
592 Tujunga .......·--·············-······Tujungfl ................•................................
593 All States Lodge............•.•.-.-·Long Beach ..........................................
594 Service•.................·-··-····-·····-· Long Beach ..........................................
595 Alexander Graham Bell......... Los Angeles ........................................
596 Guardian...........•..............- ••......South Gate ............................................
597' Trutb ...............~·-·-······-······-·-Los Angeles ·····-·································
598 Pearl Harbor................- ..••...•.. Hortolulu, T. H ............•....................
599 Carmelita...................................Pasadena ..............................................
600 Lynwood .................- ...............Lynwood ..............................................
601
602
603 Dimond..................- ..................Oakland ................•..............:····-········604 J ubilee_...............- ................~ .... Santa Ana ............................................
605 Glassel! Park......:..................... Los Angeles ·························-·············
607 Sojourner ................................ :..Monrovia .........................................._..
608 Granada..................................... Alhambra ...........................................•
609 Provident.............................•.... Sacramento ...................................•......
610 Elmhurst............•......................Oakland ................................•.............;.
611 Canoga............•- .....•.......•.......•..Canoga Park -····································
612 Temple City................•.............Temple City ·································-·····
613 Three Pillars ...........................•Sacramento ..........................................
614 Larchmont................................Los Angeles ........................................
615 Hemet.................•......................Hemet ....................................................
616 Seal Beach ..........•..............•.....•Seal Be;lch.......--·········--··-··--·······
617 Big Bear... _............................... Pine Knot ............................................
618 Southland .................................. Los Angeles ······························-·······
619 N eptune ......................................Long Beach ············-····························
620 ·Point Loma............................... San Diego ·············-···························621 The Gardens .•.........................•• Los Angeles ······································622 Atwater ............................ _ ........Loa Angeles························-················
623 Menorah .................................... Los Angeles .......'...................................
624 Fortitude ...................................Oakland ······································--····-··
625 Angeles Mesa...........................Los Angeles ...................................•....

~r~~:~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.::~.::I~~t°l~~~1~~···::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Cash·
40.00
36.00
50.00
19.00
50.00
25.50
24.00
16.50
22.00
21.00
10.00
33.00
322.00
12.00
56.00
34.00
96.00
110.00
49.50
26.00
70.00
77.00
40.12
92.00
17.00
16.00
62.25
48.00
6.00
12.00
58.00
18.00
30.75
170.00

45.00
35.00
58.00
29.00
147.50
69.50
104.50

No.
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
640
641
642
643
644
645
646
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
664
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676
677
678
679
680

Lodge
Location
Chula Vista................- ............. Chula Vista ..........................................
Lamanda Park......................... Pasadena ...............................,..............
Beacon of the West................Los Angeles ....:.................................••
Fairview....•.....- ........................ lnglewood ............................................
Ingleside....•...•.......................•...San Francisco ············'·············-··········
Benevolence•............................Los Angeles ........................................
Normal Heights .......................San Diego ........................................•...
Poinsettia................................ _Ventura ··············································Victorville ....•....•.......................Victorville ..................................•.........
Riverside ................................... Riverside ············································John Marshall.......................... West Hollywood ······························Pa'lisades .... ~··········-·········--······Santa Monica ....................................
Indian Rock .............................. Berkeley ....................................... ~ .....
Gomposite .........................,....... Los Angeles ......................•...................
Veritas .................... - ................. San Francisco ....................................
James A. Foshay...•................. Los Angeles ........................................
La Cumbre ................................ Santa Barbara ······························-····
Alta Loma....•.....•......................Long Beach ..........................................
Lomita.......................................Lomita ...................,........•....................•
A. F. E. Irwin........................... San Pedro ............................................
Metropolitan.•.....................•.....Los Angeles ..........................................
Hawthorne ................................Hawthorne ..........................................
Damascus .......,.•.................••..... San Bernardino ........................•.......•.
Flor:ence ...... ,............................. Los Angeles ........................................
La :Brea .............•.........•.....•.••....Los Angeles .......•...........................•....
Menlo Park...............................Menlo Park ........................................
Crescenta Valley .........•......•..•..Montrose ..............................................
F ontana................. _..................F ontana .....................,..........................
J ordan........ ~ .....................- .•- .... Los Angeles .............................._.;......
Monte Vista............•.......•_.....•.Long Beach ..................................-......
Citrol.......................................... Brea .........................,....................•.......
J~h!1 D. Spreckels................,... S~ Diego ............................................
L1vmgston..............•..................L1vmgston ............................................
La Habra ..............................:.... La Haibra .............•......................•.......
Baldwin Park........................... Baldwin Park ....................................
Malta.....•..•..1.............................. Los Angeles ........................................
H~~ry Knox................•............ L~s. Angeles ..........................................
OJat .................•..••......••..•......••....OJat ........................................................
Oasis ..•...•........•........•......•....••.... El Centro ..............................................
Kaweah ............................ _..••..•.Woodlake ..............................................
Reseda. ...........•...........................Reseda ··············································-··
Meridian....................................Glendale ............................................... .
San Gorgonio............................Banning ..........................•.....................
John P. Jarman........................San Jose ......................•........................•
Gre.enleaf......••...••...........•...•......Whittier ............. :................................. .
San Clemente ..'··············'··········San Clemente ······-······················--····
Laguna Beach .......................... Laguna Beach .....................................•
Far West...............:................... San Francisco ................................•...
Los Cerritos ........ _....................Long Beach ........................................
Modesto............•........................Modesto ................................................
Willow Glen............................. Willow Glen ........................................
Liberal Arts..............................Los Angeles ........................................
Altadena....................................Altadena ................................................
Canby's Cross ............................Tulelake ..............................,.........•.......
Carmel. ........•..•.......................... Carmel .................................•..........•.,...

419

Cash
7.00
53.50
9.00
64.10
42.00
34.00
48.00
30.00
61.00
8.00
200.50
15.00
56.00
18.25
58.00
34.00
11.00
11.00
4.00
66.00
14.00
26.00
21.00
16.00

32.00
38.00
48.50
67.00
21.27
53.00
32.50
10.50
30.50
12.00
14.50
14.00
48.00
44.85
25.00
4.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

420

421

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Auditor's Report-Endowment Fund

To ·the Endowment Fund Committee, Masonic Homes of Cali/or~:
In accordance · with the authorization of the Finance Committee, we have
audited the accounts of the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic
Homes of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1937. The following
statements are presented herewith:
Exhibit A : Summary Statement of Endowment Fund Assets.
Exhibit B : Statement of Endowment Income and Capital Account.
Exhibit C: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit D : Statement of "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund."
Schedule A-1: Lists of Regular Endowment Fund Securities Acquired
Prior to July 31, 1936.
Schedule A-2: Lists of Regular Endowment Fund Securities, Additions
to Fund 1936-37.
Schedule A-3 : Statement of Securities Redeemed and Sold.
Securities-(Schedules A-1 and A-2):
Corporate stocks and irrigation bonds have been received by donation as
noted. Certain of the bonds, other than irrigation, have been acquired by donation and are so marked by the letter "D'' under Schedule A-1. In the case of
donated securities the stated or book value represents the value placed upon
the securities at time of donation. Where the value is uncertain, because of it
· being an unlisted or a closely held security, entry is . made on the books at a
nominal $1.00 value for purposes of record. Insurance policies are listed at a
nominal value of $1.00 for conservative purposes.
Bonds purchased are recorded on the books at cost, including premium.
A reserve is set up to measure the amount of premium written off or amortized.
The amount of this reserve is deducted from the total book value of regular
endowment securities, Exhibit A.
Detailed lists of additions through purchase or donation as well as sales of
securities and redemption of bonds have been set out at the end of the regular
lists of securities and are marked Schedule A-2 and A-3 for readr reference.
Total market values of bonds, stocks, -etc., are by compa,rison with book
values. as follows :
Market
Increased
Book
Value
Value
Value
Regular Endowment Fund Securities........$846,475.02 $877,983.42 $31,508.40
1,128.60*
60,467.25
Luckenbach Endowment Fund Securities.. 61,595.85
Total net increased value................

$30,379.80

*Red.

· A new statement marked "Summary Statement of Endowment Fund
Assets, Exhibit A" presents in summary condensed form the total .of Endowment Fund assets at a grand total book value of $1,009,398.66 as at August 31,
1937. The · increase in market value as noted above gives an a~ded value to
the Endowment Fund of $30,379.80 not reflected on the books of account.
The endowment income account shows a total net credit of $31,812.07
arising from interest and dividends received during the current fiscal year,
which has been made available to the Masonic Homes General Fund. This total
is exclusive of the $5,000.00 interest charge on the Masonic Homes General
Fund note. (Reference Exhibit B-Income Account..)

Funds Held In Suspense:
The following funds are held in suspense in the general Masonic" Homes
books pending final fulfilment of annuity contract and settlement of estates:
Annuities:
George H. and Harriet C. Wadleigh......................................
$25,083.32
Bequests:
Estate of M. Raabe :
Lot 4B Healdsburg (assessed value) ............~................$3,500.00
Cash .............·-····-·~·-····-·····-···--····-············-··-....- .....,...... 675.83
Estate of Horace Alvin Crocker (cash) ......
Estate of Johan Amandus Johnson (crypts) ........................

$4,175.83
347.36
830.00

Total .......~......,....- .......- ........................,_....-.,..................

$5,353.19

n

. .. . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . .. .. - - - -

The final net proceeds due the Endowment Fund as and when determined
following the discharge of any obligations as to annuity contract, and payment
of expenses in connection with estates are thereupon to be transferred and
included in the grand total of Endowment Fund assets.
We certify that the attached statements, in our opinion, set forth the
condition of the Permanent Endowment Fund as at July ~l , 1937, with exception as to the stated or book values of securities on hand, and that a proper
accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
Respectfully submitted,
R U CKSTELL & LAND,
Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T . WEBB.
Secretary's Report-Endowment Fund
Exhibit A
SUMMARY STATEMU<T OF ENDOWMENT FUND ASSETS
JULY 31, 1937
(Also Additions to August 31, 1937)
Regular F14nd
Cash on hand in savings accounts (Refer Exhibit CReceipts and Disbursements) ................................__
Securities : (Refer Schedules A-1; A-2; and A-3 for
detailed lists of securities)
Bonds:
On deposit August 1, 1936 (prior report) ......$644,281.70
Purchased during year @ cost..............- .......... 190,116.22

$

19,929.77

Total ········-········- '····•·..······- "'····--····--··- ;............ 834,397.92
Sold or redeemed during year............................ 23,700.00
On deposit July 31, 1937 (Amortization reserve deducted below) ..................................
Stocks:
On deposit August 1, 1936 (prior report) ...... 48,670.80
Received by donation during year....................
267.50

810,697.92

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total ·····"·······-······--•'············---····-··--·-···-····- 48,938.30
·Sold during year............·-·····•·········-·······-··········· 14,231.05
34,707.ZS

On deposit July 31, 1937........................- ............
Miscellaneous:
On hand August 1, 1936 (prior report) ..........
Received by donation during year....................

423

Additions to Fund :
From bequests, donations, etc·:
Cash (As per Exhibit C)•..,...,......,.$ 78,373.30
· Securities (As per Schedule A-2)
l,17J.3S

$25,800.00 $104,173.30
1,173.3S

$ 79,546.6S

$2S,800.00 $10S,346.6S
$17,802.SO $ S9,289.97
17,067.17
S4,998.22

164.00
90S.8S

On hand July 31, 1937..........- .....................- ......
Masonic Homes Note 5%~:; ..,,........,.:....-···-···-····-·-······~...

1,069.8S
7S,OOO.OO

From profit on sale of securities, etc:
*Proceeds from sales, etc.................$ 41,487.47
Less: Value recorded on books...... 37,931.0S

Total ...;....c........ :....:••• -········---··········-········-·
Deduct : Reserve for Amortization of Bond Premium
(included in cost of bonds) ........................................

941,404.79

Net - ..............- ..........~....._ ...................$ 3,SS6.42

2,880.71

Total additions to fund ............................$ 83,103.07

Total regular Endowment Fund cash and securities, etc.
Special Fund-"John and Lena Luckenbach" (Reference: Exhibit D) .,..·--·····-······-····-····---··---··--··-·

938,S24.08

Deductions : Sundry Adjustment..................

.SO

.so

60,73S.33

Balance per books, July 31, 1937.•.......:........$938,S24.08

$60,73S.33 $999,2S9.41

Grand Total Endowment Fund-To July 31, 1937......

$ 999,2S9.41

Additions during August 1937: (in memorandum)
Reports Nos. 42 to 47, inc. (cash donations,
lodges, etc.) ...•·- .....
_··ro.~'"""'._.'..,:..,~ 7,342.34
Sundry bequests ·····--·············-························-·····-····· 2,796.91
i... • • - •.· ,.:..;... .........-

Grand total endowment fund-to August 31, 1937........

73S.33 $ 4,291.7S

$26,S3S.33 $109,638.40

*Reference: (Schedule A-3 and Exhibit D)
'Exhibit C

.....:·. ...... - ..

----

$

10,139.2S
$1,009,398.ti6

NOTE: Funds received and held in suspense pending final fulfilment of annuity
contract and settlement of estates are not included in the above totals.
(Reference: Editorial Commen~s.)

Exhibit B
STATEMENT OF ENDOWMENT INCOME AND CAPITAL ACCOUNT
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1937

Income Account
Total income received from Eudowment Eund securities (other than
M. H. note below) ·--·-··-················································•····~·······•··········· ..$32,910.10
Deduct : Amortization of premium, recovered and restored to Endowment Fund Capital....•.......···-····~···························-··········•··········--··- 1,098.03
Balance ............_.._____...............................-•·····-········-·:-·--·-···········•·-·- 31,812.07
Interest income. from Masonic Ho~es Note @ 5%....:.............._...........,.- S,000.00

STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBU RSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1937

Cash on hand August 1, 1936....- .........................................._
$ 14,087;69
Receipts
Donations (From Lodges, etc., $27,696.27;
from individuals $1,000.00) ......................$28,69627
Bequests ····························-······"····--······..············ 49,677.03 $ 78,373.30
Redemption of bonds.......................................... 23,700.00
Sale of stocks, etc. (For details refer
Schedule A-3) ............................................ 17,787.47

41,487.47

Received on Masonic Homes note.................................,.. _.. 7S,OOO.OO
Bond premium amortization 1936-37.................................... 1,098.03
Total receipts ........................_.................................

$19S,9S8.80

Total cash funds to account for...........................................
$210,046.49
Disbursements
Stocks and bonds purchased-Endowment Fund.... ~...........$190,11622
.SO
Sundry adjustment ............................._...................................
Total disbursements ..................:...............................

190,116.72

Total income transferred to General Fund..................................$36,812.07

Capital Account
Permanent Luckenbach
Total
Balance per .books, August 1, 19~6 (As per
prior report) ............................................$855,421.51 $34,200.00 $889,621.Sl

Cash on hand July 31, 1937....................................................
$ 19,929.77
Composition of Balance
Cash: (Savings Accounts)
Anglo California National Bank..,.-..............;............$ 16,377.16
The San Francisco Bank..........................................,..... 3,SS2.61
Total ........................:..............................._..................

$ 19,929.77

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

424

PROCE~DINGS OF THE ·

Schedule A-1
LISTS OF REGULAR ENDOWMENT FUND SECURITIES

Note: Received during August 1937:
Reports Nos. 42 to 47 inclusive (donations
from Lodges, etc. ) --- .,....,,.._.._r-··--~.:...;_.~....$ 7,342.34
Sundry bequests ........................................- .............. 2,796.91

JULY 31, 1937
Book Value
Bonds: (Acquired prior to July 31, 1936)

!l'otal.~.....;...........;...,.,...................-.... - ...............$ 10,139.25

$ 1,000
10,000
5,000
40,000

Exhibit D
STATEMENT OF "JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND"
JULY 31, 1937
Special Fund
Balance in Fund, August 1, 1936 (57%) ..............................$ 34,200.00
Additions 1936-37:
Balance of cash bequest (43%).................................... 25,800.00
Profit on sale $15,000.00 N. Y. Central 6%-44
(Cost $17,067.17) .....................:..........- ...............735.33

25,000
5,000
15,000
15,000

$60,735.33
Balance in Fund, July 31, 1937..............................................
NOTE: Interest of 7% on deferred payment of legacy is expected to be paid at
time of final settlement of estate. At present this amounts to approximately $12,000.00 which when received will be added to Endowment
Income account for use of General Fund,
Composition of Fund
Cash (Anglo California National Bank
#24201) .........................................._................
$ 1,015.10
Securities:
Cost
$ 9,000 Northern Pacific Railway Co. General lien R.R. and Land Grand
3%, due 2047 '. ........_ ..::...............:..$ 7,290.00
100 Sh. West Penn Electric Co. Class
A Stock ............................................ 10,480.85
Total .......................................... 17,770.85
Purchased 1936-37:
5,000 California Water Service Co. 1st
Mtg. Series "B" 4Cfo--61................ 5,162.50
10,000 Southern Calif. Edison Co. Ltd. 1st
and Refunding Mtg. Gold Bonds,
4%-60 ......................................._..... 10,837.50
10,000 Southern Pacific R.R. Co. 1st and RefWlding Mortgage Gold Bonds,
4%-55 .............................................. 10,650.00
15,000 Corporate stock of City of New
· York 47'2%-60 ................................ 17,175.00

..

20,000
30,000
47,800
1,500
10,000
5,000
45,000

10,000
2,000

1,000
2,000
10,000

Total securities ......,.......................

$61,595.85

35,000

Total cash and securities ............................- ..Deduct: Due Endowment Interest ~ccount....

$62,610.95
1,875.62

10,000
$60,735.33

Ashland, City of, water 5%, due 1959......................" ..............$ 1,000.00
Beverly Hills, water 5%, due 1947-48...............~...................... 10,687.70
Bishop Union High School District, 5% due 1949................ 5,159.35
Chicago Sanitary District, Refunding bonds, Series "B"
4%, due 1952-55 ..........,.................._ ......................_ .................... 42,698.45
Detroit, City of, Refunding bonds, 3 ~ % due 1962................ 25,611.28
&st Bay Municipal Utilities District, water 5%, due 1947 5,326.55
El Segundo High School District, 5% due 1952-53..:............. 16,015.08
Golden Gate Bridge & .Highway District, 4~% due
1959-67-71 ..............,.~.•.., ................................,..........._....::...- ....... 15,684.60
Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District, 4~% due 1967.... 22,636.50
Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District, 4~% due 1968-9 29,827.63
Home Owners' Loan Corporation, 3% due 1952........,........... 47,768.63
Jonathan Club Building Co., 2nd mortgage, Leasehold
Serial Gold, 7%, due 1952.........._ .........;...........-........................ 1,500.00
Los Angeles, City of, water works, Class H, Series No. 1,
5% due 1974.,.................................................................................. 11,115.73
Los Angeles Ra.ilway Co., of California, First mortg~e,
Gold, 5% due 1938...,.........,..........- ...........~.._............................... 5,000.00
Los Angeles, City High School District, 5% due 195150,426.96
59-60-64 ............~......._ .................~··-·•-·"J······-."'·"·-·--·•<" 0 "·Los Angeles, City O'f, Electric Plant, 5% .due 1952-61.......... 16,546.47
Los Angeles, City of, Harbor, 4~%. due 1960..............,.....:. 5,471.55
Los Angeles, City of, Sewer, 4~%. due 1965................- ..... 5,512.05
Los Angeles, City of, Water, 47'2%, due 1965..................,..... 10,254.00
New York, City of, Rapid Transit bonds, 4y.(%, due 1981 10,987.50
New York, City of, Water supply, 4% due 1980......- ............ 10,525.00
New . York, City Corp. Stock, Water supply bonds, 37'2%,
due 1976 i..-•ou·····t··-···~"··-•~--······•··"o••-····""-··-·········-·-..""'······- ... .. 20,900.00
New York, Port Authority The, 3~%. due 1965.................. 10,553.23
Pacific Gas and Electric Co., First and Refunding mortgage, Gold, 6%, due 1941...,.......:............................- .........,.......D 2,000.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., First and Refunding mortgage,
Gold, 6%, due 1941..........,........................,................................ D 1,070.00
Pick Barth Holding Corp., Five year note, 6% due 1935, D 1,000.00
Richmond, City of, Municipal Improvement, 5%, due
1949-52 ...,.......,•.- ......_..................................--..,............................. 2,000.00
San Francisco, City and County of, Sewer, 5%, due
1945-47 •.,~..,...............- ...................,..- ............................................... 10,000.00
San Francisco, City and County of, Retch Hetchy, 5~%.
due 1963 _................................___,.....,".:........- --;-.......................... · 37,561.94
San Francisco,· City and County of, Hetch Hetchy, 5~% .
due 1954-55 ..................,_ ................_........- ...................- .................. 10,706.00
. . .. . . .

15,000
5,000
5,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
20,000

1,000

Total ..........................................$43,825.00

Total (As above) .....~....................................._...•

425

426

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21,000

San Francisco, City and County of, City Hall, 5%, due
1939-60 ····--···-·.-··-··········-············-········:·························-··········-··
30,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Water 4Y.%, due 1942
1,000 Santa Barbara, City of, Municipal Iroprovements, Water
4Y.%, due 1948 ····················································'·························
6,987.50 Santa Barbara, City of, 4Y.%, due 1938-44...:..:..................,..
10,000 State of California, State Highway, Constitutional Amendment of 1920 Bonds, due 1955, 47!i%.....................................:..
2S,OOO Seattle, City of, Light and Power, 3Y.%, due 1952-53..........
lS,000 Stockton, City of, Harbor, 4Y.%, due 1952-59........................
10,000 Temescal Water Co., First mortgage, S%, due 1960............
48,400 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 3Y,-4y.(%, due 1945.......................,.. _
100 University.Masonic Temple Association, Second mortgage,
(registered) 6%, due 1949.......•.........,...._.···-········-······-····-····
1,87S Upland, C.ity of, Municipal Improvement, 6%, due
1937-42 -···---···-···-..··--·-··..····-···.--·····..'-..,.,......•,....
SOO San Diego First National Co., SY.% Sinking Fund, due
1942 ............................................................................_......................

--·-·---D

frrigation Bonds: (Donated)
1,000 Anderson Cottonwood Irrigation District, First Issue
No. 1, 6%, due 1937.'-····-···-----~.: •..•,...~ ..~ ..:.~.........- .•- .....'D
1,000 Imperial Irrigation District, Issue No. 4, 6%, due 1983....D
1,000 Terra Bella I~rigation District, First Issue, 6%, due
1945 ol\o•~••••••••u:••: • .,,.,._.,.,._,.;~~••4•J•-.••U••••••,;•h•...,1-'~~-~~"-••••••••o••"~~·•••D
1,000 West Okanogan Valley Irrigation District, Oroville,
Washington, 6%, due 1945...·--·-····--·······..······;..........,._........D

21,000.00
30,000.00
1,000.00
6,987.50
ll,47S.OO
24,937.SO
15,934.50
10,07S.OO
48,400.00

Ce;t. A h
T
I
.
Book Value
a mes emp e Shrine Ass'n...................@ $100.00 par $3.00
1 Aahmes Temple Shrine Ass'n ..........,........@
S0.00 par 1.00
9 Al Malaikah Auditorium Co.....: ....- ........@ 100.00 par 9.00
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fimd..................................._
1.00
1 Masonic Temple Ass'n. of Sacramento @ 100.00 par 1.00
1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2........ @ 20.00 par 1.00 $ · 16.00
Receivers Certificate on U. S. National Bank (Nominal
value) ...............•............................................................................

1.00

lnsttrance Policies: (Nominal values only for purpose of
record.)
$500.00 policy, New York Life Insurance Co. (Clifford W.
Richter) (Premium paid by insured) ............................ 1.00
2SO.OO policy, Mutual Life Insurance Co. (Charles H.
Ruch) (Premium paid by insured) ................................ 1.00

2.00

1,000.00
1,000.00

Real Property : (Assessed values)
Arlington Lot-County of San Diego................ _.............. ~ 90 00
Lot No. 262 County of Los Angeles........................:.:........... ss:oo

145.00

1,000.00

Total Miscellaneous Securities, etc...............................

$164.00

1.00

Masonic Homes of California, Note 5%.............:................J.......

7S,OOO.OO

100.00
1,87S.OO
2SO.OO

Total bonds (Acquired prior to July 31, 1936) ................$620,SSl.70

J

427

Miscellaneous Securities, Etc:
Fraternal Building Certificates, etc.: (Recorded at nominal $1.00 value).
(Donated-Payable on death, or as redeemed.)

"D" indicates bonds received by donation.
Stocks: (All donated, acquired prior to July 31, 1936) .
Shares
s Altadena Masonic Temple Building Ass'n, Ltd............- ...........$ S0.00
10 American Telephone and Telegraph Co.........'............................ 1,066.00
82S.OO
lS Central Public Service Co., Preferred........................................
2.00
45 Colma Land Company ................:..................._...................: ..........
1.00
s Eastern Public Service Corporation, Class A, Common..........
2,329y.( Masonic Temple Ass'n. of California, Ine..- ............................. 23,292.SO
431.2S
15 Oklahoma Natural Gas Corporation, Preferred........................
316 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% Preferred.................................. 7,614.00
so Pacific Gas & Electric Co., SY.% Preferred.............................. 1,0S0.00
1.00
10 Peoples' Light and Power Corporation, Preferred..................
2.00
10 Schulte United Sc to $1.00 Stores, Inc., Preferred..................
1.00
10 Splitdorf Bethlehem Electrical Co...............................................
1.00
14 Standard Public Service Co., Preferred..................................1 Sun Drug Co., The, Preferred...·. -..................-·-··········-·········-··
1.00
100.00
1 Taft Masonic Temple Association..........................,......................
1.00
2 United Stores Corporation .:..,....................... _............., ................
1.00
10 Universal Chain Theaters Corporation........................................
Total Stocks (Acquired prior to July 31, 1936) .............. $34,439.7S

Total regular fund securities acquired prior to July .
31, 1936 only ................................................................
$730,18S.4S
NoTE: Refer Exhibit D for Luckenbach Fund securities, also summary
Exhibit A.

Schedule A-2
LIST OF REGULAR E NDOWMENT FUND SECURITIES
JULY 31, 1937
Additions to Fund 1936-37

Securities Purchased :
Bonds:
Book Value
$2S,OOO Alabama, State of, Refunding, 3~%, due 1964....................$ 27,9S7.SO
2,200 Home Owners Loan Corporation, 3%, due 19S2..........:......... 2,304.13
lS,000 Knoxville, City of, Water, 4Y.%, due 1961............................ 16,142.19
20,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water and power, 3Y.%, due 1977.... 19,3SO.OO
10,000 Mercer County, New Jersey, Road and improvement 3%
due. 1952 .................................." .....................................,........'.........'.
7S,OOO Un~ted States of America, Treasury Bonds, 3%, due 19SS 10,000.00
79,36S.64
20,000 Un~ted States of America, Treasury Bonds, 4%, due 19S4
1,600 Un~ted States of America, Treasury Bonds, 3y.( %, due 194S 23,040.63
10,000 Umted States of Amedca, Treasury Bonds, 2~%, due 19S4 1,740.SO
10,215.63
Total securities purchased during year............................$190,116.22

GRAND LODGE OF CALIJ!'.ORNIA

429

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

428

Schedule A-3
Received by Donation and Bequest:

STATEMENT OF SECURITIES REDEEMED AND SOLD
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY .31, 1937

Bonds:
3,000.00 Central Public Utility Corp. 5~% Income.....................$

232.50

Stock: (All from Raabe estate).
5 Sh. Bakersfield Masonic Temple Association....- ..:.................
60
Central Public Utilities Corporatibn..................................
~
gentral States Utilities Corporation..................................
eyser Development Co., prefer.red...._•.............:.............
10
Healdsburg General Hospital...............- ............................
59
Cheas. ~- McCormack Lumber Co...1......................: ••• •••• - ••••
50
onsohdated Rock Products common l
100
Consolidated Rock Products preferred f ........................

5.00
12.50
40.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
175.00

Total stock donated ..........,_.;.;_......_._,......_................$

267.50

Stocks Sold : (Total Book Value $14,231.05.)

· Shares
50
24
9
90/ 200
10

Miscellaneous items:
Insurance Policies: (Recorded at nominal value.)
$1,000.00 Equitable Life Assurance Society-Sam
Rosenwig ......-.....,.....~········--·· ...,;...,...,.,.,._,.......$ 1.00
1,000.00 States Life Insurance Co.-Sam Rosenwig.. 1.00
1,000.00 Independent Order of Foresters - Sam
Rosenwig .............................................................. 1.00

From Regular Endowment Fund: (Exclusive of Special Luckenbach Fund.)
Bonds Redeemed: ( Total book value $23,700.00.)
·
$ 5,000 Pacific Gas and Electric Co., 5%, due 1942,
general and refunding bonds ( Called) .........:••.:....$ 5,000.00
17,000 Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Co., 5%, due ·
1937, first Mortgage and Collateral Sinking
Fund (Matured) ············-····················--····--····-········ 17,000.00
1,075 Santa Barbara, City of, 4~%, ·d ue 1937, Municipal Improvement Street Bonds ( Matured).......... 1,075.00
625 Upland, City of, 6%, due 1937 (.Matured)............
625.00 $23,700.00

5
3.00

2
10
25

310.00

16
28
25
42

5
Certificates of Deposit: (All from Raabe estate).
$8,400.00 Summer Lake Irrigation District.... ,.~ ........... 250.00
2,000.00 Butte Valley Irrigation District.....:................ 60.00

5
29

5

Assign!11ent of claim-Members share in Pacific Coast Buildmg and Loan Ass'n..- ....................- .............·-·············-·········

360.35

Total miscellaneous securities received during year....$

673.35

Total all securities received by donation during year (Including items
entered at $1.00 nominal value) ,:._..,,. __ ...."···•-....·~--~---··,•-·-$

1,173.3.5

Summary of Securities:
· Book Value
Total Securities acquired prior July 31, 1936................:...................$7~, 185.45
Total additions :
Purchases during year .................................................................... 190,116.22
By donation (Including nominal values).................................... 1,173.35
· Total securities (Not including Luckenbach Fund Securities)._...$921,475.02
NoTE: For total of Endowment Fund, including cash in banks -also market
values ol securities, refer Exhibit A.
'
For securities-Special Luckenbach Fund, refer Exhibit D, also summary Exhibit A.

15

11
10

7

Brooklyn Manhattan Transit Co•.:..•....,._................$ 2,694.88
746.73
Calamba Sugar Estate ················-···························
California Packing Company ..................................
402.56
California Packing Company ..................................
22.84
Central Indiana Power .......................................,.....
437.00
Central and Southwestern Utilities ......................
518.43
619.40
Crocker First National Bank of San Francisco..
Crown Williamette Paper Co.-First Preferred.. 1,126.47
Colma Land Company ( Liquidating Dividends).. . 42.75
Galland Mercantile Laundry ..................................
192.24
Guggenheim and Company ................:...................... 1,535.16
Hawaiian Pineapple Company ................................
911.lS
Hawaiian Sugar Company ...................................... 1,205.97
Onomea Sugar Company ···············'······················-· 1,979.50
174.75
Olympian Dredging Company ···········-···················
Pacific Lighting Corporation ...•.............................. 1,381.81
Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corporation.....~............
516.43
A. E . Staley Manufacturing (;o,.....................-..... 1,623.00
Telephone Investment Corporation ........................
447.68
994.65
Visalia Building and Loan AS$'n ...........- ..........;....
207 .90
West Ohio Gas Company ........................................

17,781.33 .

Miscellaneous:
United States National Bank-Receivers Certificate
(Liciuidating dividend received) ......•.......................

. 10.77

T otal .............................. ,.....................,..........
Less sundry adjustment ......................................................

$41,492.10
4.63

Total Proceeds from Redemption and Sale of Securities
(Total Proceeds from stocks an,(ji misi:ellaneous
.
$17,787.47) .................... .,_:......,...... ~..............,.,...•.....:.........................$41,487.47
JoHN WHICHER, S ecretary.

The report was adopted with the exception of a request fo r
an appropriation, which was referr~d to the Committee on Fii;i~nc~ ..

430

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON EIGHT EENTH ANN UA L
OBSERVANCE OF PUBLIC SCH OOLS WEEK
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge F . & A . M . of Cal'f
..
i ornia:

In our report on the Thirteenth Annual Observance after

ointin

~~a~e~ac~;e~~ f~r several years pa~t we h~d been calling ~ttentionp to theg co~~
0

attet~da:dce :t th~ p~~li~b~~~~r;: a:d Pbu;l~~e f~:~:p:~e:v;~~~~~~Y bg~v!~cr1.teas' wede
con mue :
1

"Never before, however, has this ·been so apparent as it was this year

~n? nedver before w~re the programs throughout the state generally so weti
es1gne to accomplish the purpose in view."

ind· Tpis w~s :ve years ago; and it might well be said again this year As an
ma~~a ~~n t~ t t~ a~ount .of newspaper publicity we received, reference .may be
e a en 10n given the Grand Master's Proclamation which is the '
~;st announcement by our Committee of the Week's activities In 1931 (and
~? ~ reco~d) the _Grand M_aster's Proclamation was reproduc~d either in its
en 1re.y or m part m 107 daily and weekly papers In 1932 't
161 different publications· and this year iby 181 These fi
I was cokverefd by
our record A
. .
.
·
gures are ta en rom
. s. s our c11ppmg service on which they are based is b no means
complete, it may be ~afely assumed that Public Schools Week has ~ome to be
:~~a~~:e assp~:aJu~~b~~ft~~tance that notice of its approach warrants extensive
. There was a~.o good publicity given the announcements issued by the fol
:Jv:~~~ g~o~~s ~ 1chC so splendidly cooperate with us in the observance of th~

1

· a 1 orma ongress of Parents and Tea h
Ca!'f
·
Association, California Department Am .
. c ers, .
1 orma Teachers
Womens Clubs c 1'f
· L
erican Legion, California Federation of
, a 1 orn1a eague of Women Voters St t F
B
'
a e arm ureau
Federation and California Chamber of Commerce.

Dire~~~ ~~b~~~ic~~7h~~~ ~e i~3;::r~~;e:edin~:~~:1 on:y ~he r~leases
°

by our
observances For instance ·
.
n
t at given the local
c~~:~~~m~n~t~h~he local n~wspaper devoted to the
observance 421 inches of
tion received throughout the state g~erally f:o~a~o~~P~~:l ~:bathe findethcoopera-1
press.
•
n an
e rura

·i::

grow~ o~a;~b~:f~~:~e!~ i~et:eu~~~!%::~:i(~~c~~!e~~:et;paacse ~v:~~~ecde

e
bof tthhe
newspapers
to any occurrenee 1s
· generaIIy m
· proportion
. to the p bl' · tY e•
.
t herem) •but as well for another reason.
u 1c m eresi
Our newspaper clippings show that not on!

were h

·

~?o~ 1~~~ ~~!pecerv~~est coverefd, dbut t?at ther_e wa~ publis~e~ ~~;~:~d e~ef~t:~~

ypes o e ucat10n earned on in the m
·
f
·
thhe pel ople generally have little knowledge--such as tra~oe amnudmty ot. wht~ch
sc oo s and oppo t 1·t
d h
.
con mua ion
'[he:e
also
cf ildren.
~ss10na Journals. In these, attention was called to the trend of moder ~pro­
t10n and to the facts that we are now living in what se
n uca::::~i::~:a~ion in every _wal_k of life, social, political an~in:c~~o!~c a:n~r~h~!
Y a re-organizat10n of their programs and
d
'
oring to satisfy a new set of demand
.
proce ures are endeav~
only aroused the people's interest, bute!~~sr~:J1~~=~nt~h:e~:blic lres~ n~t
more probable that they would find, the reasons for the changes be~~g ::d: i~

~e.re

~: iJ;e:~pe~~atrarW~1~:l~fcl~~:e~o:~rap1;~~:~i~~Y

431

the curricula and methods of instruction in our public schools. With the knowledge thus acquired they were better able to appreciate the programs presented
in the schools and at the public meetings.
It is extremely gratifying to be able to report that there was a very general compliance this year with the suggestion we have been making that not only
the public addresses, but as well the programs presented by the pupils of the •
schools, should be designed for the dissemination of information rather than for
mere entertainment. At many of the public meetings, and over the radio, the
speakers dealt with the problems of modern education, and of the methods
adopted for their solution. They pointed out that the real purpose of our
public schools is to qualify all the children of all the people to make their
regpective contributions, according to their native talents and abilities, to that
enlightened citizenship which is dependent upon the proper and appropriate
education of the individual citizen; and that to attain this objective, there have
been devised and developed curricula of various types and content suited to the
interests, needs and capabilities of the individual pupil.
The radio publicity was no less effective than was tliat furnished by the
rural and urban press. In addition to the courtesies extended us by the State
Chamber of Commerce, the State Department of Education, Parent-Teacher
Associations, Womens Clubs and other organizations which have regular allotments of radio time, the broadcasting stations were exceedingly generous in
their cooperation. It is more than probable that hundreds, perhaps thousands of
our people who for one reason or another could not, or would not, make a
visit to the schools or attend a public meeting, but who "listened in" to some
speaker, got a new slant on the modern school.
Without the public press and the broadcasting stations, Public Schools
Week would never have become what it now is; but valuable as are these media
for the dissemination of information, we cannot too often reiterate that what
the schools are actually doing can best be learned by personal visits and through
the programs furnished by the pupils with exhibits of ·school work.
As is of course well known, our committee in these reports studiously
refrains from mentioning any Lodge, or community, either in praise or criticism; because, as has been frequently explained, it would be obviously impossible to give praise to all who deserve it, and we believe no good purpose would
be served ·by publicly calling attention to those who do not. But we canno~
forbear from here expressing our gratification in the fact that this year the
Masons in Honolulu observed Public Schools Week.
For some years the Lodges in Honolulu, for reasons which seemed to
them good and sufficient, had made no effort to sponsor an obser vance. This
year, however, they joined in holding a public meeting with a program which
must have been exceedingly interesting. The significance of public schools in
America formed the theme which ran through a series of talks climaxed .by the
address of the Superintendent of Public Instruction whose subject was "The
Public School-America's Best Gift to Civilization." There were also short
tafks by students who capably expressed their appreciation of what the publi~
schools mean to them.
We feel that it should be stated, lest a wrong inference may be drawn,
that Lodge Maui consistently continued to observe the "Week" even during
those years when no attempt to do so was :being made elsewhere in the Territory. This year it was properly, and very appropriately, tied in with the annual
observance of May Day which is there known as "Lei Day" and also as
"Child Health Day."
There were again this year, as there always are, many local observances
to which special attention might well be called because of the excellence of the
programs and the introduction of novel features. Limitations of time and space,

4,32

PROGEEDINGS OF THE

how~ver, will- permit extended reference to ·b ut one of these; and first we

mention another mat~er to which it is hoped due heed will be given.

In the report of an observance for which no apology need have been made;
the Master'.s comment was that it was "not the success that such an important
and well established project deserved to be. As Master I feel that I failed to
• catch the full significance and importance of the observance until it was over.
Because of this I think that some well directed reminder to the Master early
in, the year would serve to bring the duty to his attention in time to allow for
a definite and carefully planned program."
Now the fact of the matter is that there had been, as there always is, a
i·eminder to the Masters o( al!' our Lodges "early in the year." In January a
notice from our Committee was sent to the Secretary of every Lodge. It was
sent to the Secretary because the names of the Masters were then. not yet
availa'ble. It was, however, addressed to the Master; and on the envelope was
a notation that it was for the Master and should be handed him immediately.
This early notice is sent out ~ith the hope that an immediate start will
be · made with the arrangements for the observance by the appointment of a
committee and a conference with the school authorities. Mention may here be
made ·o f the fact that there are several Lodges in which there is a permanent
committee of arrangements with only one or two new appointees each year,
This_ idea might well be considered by other Lodges in the jurisdiction, because
there can be no question that an experienced committee functions more smoothly
a·n d efficiently than one composed of members who are r.ot familiar with the
"mechanics" of the observance. ·
In connection with the foregoing, we again refer to a· rather anomalous
condition with which we have be.en confronted dur,ing the last two or three
years; So successful have been the observances that the Masters of our Lodges
in · s'ome communities feel that no special effort is required of them. And we
desire to here repeat the .warning contained in one of our reports a _few years
ago, :when referring to the fine cooperation receive·d from the school people
we said, ,
"Now, _desirable as this in itself is, we must have in mind the possibility
of its developing into a situation which would defeat the end we have fo
view; and it will not have been the fault of the school people, but of those
upon whom Grand Lodge has a right to rely for the furtherance of the
movement it originated and continues to foster.

0

"In our recognition of the advisability, indeed necessity, of securing
the co-ordinated action of the community, it was never intended of course,
that the Masters of our. Lodges should ,be reiieved of the responsibility
primarily devolving upon them. And it must 1be alw;:ys remembered that
the great value of Public Schools Week is in the fact that it is fostered
not by .the school people, 'but by laymen. It is essentially a lay movement.
To have it understood· as only' an activity carried on by the school people
would be no less objectionable than it would be to have it regarded as an
event in which only Masons are concerned."

Although the observance has become, as .it should be, a community affair
and not a Masonic event, and although the civic organizations of the community
and -the school people should be. represented on the committee of arrangements,
the Lodge should be the nucleus of the organization created for the observance
whiCh. is fostered arid supported by the Fraternity. We have a duty to ourselves as well as to the community; and Public Schools Week must not be
permitted to h_ecome other than_what it was intended to be. Up to the present
time there have been no untoward happenings; but we must continue to be
vigilant in guarding against that i>ossibility.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

433

As has been indicated, the programs this year were especial!! fine. S?me
of the communities which have held ·very successful observances with a part_1~u­
lar type . of program, adopted a new form ; and there were m~ny commumt1es
adopting those which had proved attractive elsewhe~e and .W:h1ch they had n~~
presented. The trend towards visits to the schools with exh1b1t~ of sc~ool wo
continues, and there are several communities in which the pubhc meetings ha~e
been completely abandoned.
Especially gratifying is the fact that the Week is now being very generally
observed by the small rural schools ; and wh~t :vvas once a noteworthy exc~p­
tion has now become practically the rule._This 15 of course, due to the active
cooperation· of the teachers of these little schools, as well as ~o the encouragement received from County Superintendents and Rural Supervisors.
The observance to which we now purpose making spec~al reference had. for
its dominant feature an exposition with the theme "Learning Through Guided
Experience" · and it would be difficult to conceive how there could be a mo~e
effective deu'.ionstration of the objectives of the moderp ~chool ~nd of. th~1r
accomplishment. For that reason we devote more space to 1t than 1s ordinanly
accorded a particular observance.
.·
. . .
' The exposition was composed of ·t wenty-two booths featuring the act1v1ttes
from the kindergarten to the junior college, and the purpose _was to d~monstr~te
some of the schools activities through which students denve expenence t at
help them to grow into desirable citizens; because as t~e s\?gan over one of the
. . .
booths read "What you are to be, you are now becoming.
The kindergarten booth fea.tured . the g_roup games and common act1v1tte~
which give children experience m social a~iustment. '!'?ere were crayolas an
picture books to prepare the child for reading and wntmg.
The first grade booth showed how social adjus.t~ent is secured through
dramatic plays; with the children introduced to reading by the use of charts
and primers.
.
The second grade booth showed how lear':1i':1~ proceeds through. expanding
of the children's experience to include the acttv1t1es of the com~umty. A post
office and bakery fashioned by the children were features of this booth. .
In the third grade booth the children were shown brought into ~onta.c-t _w_1th
civilizations other than their own. Here the children were engaged in acqmring
the practice that would lead to greater skill in the fundamentals.
In the fourth grade 1booth the children were shown exploring new fields
through the study of California and Mexico.
In the- fifth g rade skill and ri;:search is demanded of the . p~pils ;_ an~ here
the children were found _consulting ' ,t he encyclopedias and d1ct10n~nes 1i;i the
seai:ch for the desired information. Here transportation and Amencan tustory
were emphasized.
In the sixth grade booth the pupils were shown dealing with decimals i.n
arithmetic and engaged ·in the study of communication which broadened· the1r
conception of the world in which they live.
. . .
The guidance department section showed the explor.atory work m 1un.1or
high schools, remedial work at all levels and the group guidance an~ couns~l!ing
throughout secondary school years which help the student to make hfe dec1S1ons
and develop educational and other plans.
There were also booths showing the work of. the preschool gro~~s for
mothers who study their three and four year old children under superv1S1on of
a child specialist. Also portrayed were the heal~h act!v!ties whi~h develop ?eal~h
consciousness; the library and visual educat10n giving max1mu~ s~rv1ce. lfl
supplying pictures and books for the use of children; the contmuatton high

434

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

school wh ich features training in many skills as well as citizenship; and a
school for handicapped children unable to compete with -other children on equal
terms.
There were demonstrations of physical education activities, and in the
physical science and industrial art section there were sh~wn the steps taken by
the students in exploring the physical world as he progresses from the junior
high school through the junior college. The work illustrated included physical
courses, mathematics, science and engineering.
In the booth devoted to health guidance, there was a demonstration of
the way in which :biological science and home economics courses in the secondary schools contri!bute to the pupil's welfare by increasing his working knowledge of foods, clothing, sanitation, mental hygiene and recreational needs. And
such school activities as could not be otherwise demonstrated were illustrated
by moving pictures.
-In addition to the booths demonstrating modern procedures in the education
of youth, there was one devoted to adult education, and which must have been
a revelation to those who did not know what is ·being done along this line.
The exposition was continued for two days from 1 :00 to 6 :00 in the
afternoon and from 7 :00 to 10 :00 in the evening, and was supplemented by a
spectacular pageant portraying four phases in the life of youth and which was
the concluding event of an observance of Public Schools Week which will ·be
long remembered.
The mention of adult education in connection with the observance to
which reference has just been made suggests the thought that Public Schools
Week furnished an opportunity for bringing home to -the people of many com,
munities a realization of the fact that California is not content to educate. only
the youth, but is providing an opportunity for those long past school age to
acquire an education which they may have ·been denied in their youth, or to
acquire arts and skills for which there came a desire only with maturing years.
The night classes and continuation schools providing education for adults
attracted a large number of visitors ; and in one of the largest of our cities
there was a public meeting sponsored by the County Council of the American
Legion which was devoted exclusively to adult education. Through brief talks,
supplemented by exhibits, live presentations and .typical class work, various
phases of adult education were called to the attention of an audience which
filled the large hall to overflowing.
It would appear that there is no phase of public education that was not
brought to the attention of the people during Public Schools Week; and it is
not strange that in a public statement the President of the California State
Chamber of Commerce said, "It is obvious that since the first observance of
Public Schools Week in 1920, citizens and business people especially, have
developed a greater confidence in our free American schools and a more profound realization of their importance to our American ideals of liberty and
democracy."
Visits to the schools continue to be apparently .the most popular feature
of the observance, as they are undoubtedly the most valuable; and in a report
received from the Superintendent of Schools in one of our larger cities, and
which included comments and suggestions received from school principals
appears the following significant statement: "We think that the visitors this
year seemed more interested in the school in general than they did in their
individual children-a hopeful sign. Their questions also were more intelligent
and showed a genuine desire for information."
As has been the case for several years, fine cooperation was received
from . all the service clubs; and in this connection, and having in mind our

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

435

rderence to the cooperation received from the groups first named in this report,
it is interesting .to note the comments in the reports of the Correspondence
Committees of some jurisdictions with respect to other 'jurisdictions which are
following our lead in the observance of a Public Schools Week. They are
similar to what was said of California when we started the movement. We
quote from one which has been called to our attention :
"Some years ago now, one of the more prominent and influential
Grand Lodges of the United States saw fit to align itself with other, though
civic and governmental organizations, in the interest of the public schools
of their State. As a natural result, the, to them, flattering achievem~nts of
the first step taken have in succession· led to the proclaiming and setti~g
aside of a 'Public Schools Week' to be kept and observed by all par.ties
and organizations of the alliance even to the election of Trustees and
other officers of their schools. Strange but true nevertheless, one by one
other Grand Lodges are gradually taking step with the leader in these
political activities.
"Certainly the claim is that these are not political activities but by
far more certain it is that by no sort of reasoning may they be termed
as other than State policies. In either event, the want of further space at
our command suggests the all sufficient answer is to be found in the following quotation from the Ancient Char.ges to which we are .all alike sacredly
pledged to observe and obey. These old Charges say:
"'No private piques or quarrels bust be brought within the door
of the Lodge, far less any quarrels about religion, or nation~ , or !tc:te
policy (italic ours), we being only, as Masons, of the catholic rehg1on
above mentioned ; we are also of all nations, tongues, kindreds, and
languages, and are resolved against all politics, as what never yet
conduced to the welfare of the Lodge, nor ever will.' "
Of course the writer of that report was in error in assuming that the
Grand Lodge of California .takes any part, or permits any Lodge to take part,
in "the election of trustees or other officers of their schools"; and with respect
to the Ancient Charges it should be noted that the inhibition is to "piques
or quarrels brought within the door of the Lodge." It should be hardly .necessary to point out the virtual impossibility of any quarrel among Masons in the
support and maintenance and advocacy of our public schools.
Another correspondent concluded a somewhat disparaging review of
Montana's Public Schools Week with this statement:
" Fine! But if school superintendents, boards of education and civic
clubs are invited to participate in these meetings, nothing short of a miracle
will keep politics out of it."
If this be indeed true, a miracle has been wrought here in California.
It should •be said that these are but a few disc'ordant notes in a chorus of
praise which has come from the Correspondence Committees of our sister
jurisdictions concerning California and the other jurisdictions which are setting
aside a week in which to focus the attention of the people on their public
schools. Perhaps the best answer that could be made to the fears which have
been expressed in certain quarters was made in an editorial in one of our
outstanding Masonic periodicals. We quote· the following as what we believe
to be a fitting close to this report :
"The inauguration of this movement (Public Schools Week) was
attended with a considerable doubt of its 'success, even on the part of
some who were willing to make the experiment. Nor were there ·lacking
those to decry the attempt, as going beyond the very narrow bounds marked
out by a settled conservatism as setting the limits of Masonic activities.

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

There was much criticism, frequently severe in tone, from the outside. The
Masonic press was not convinced that such an enlargement of Craft labor
was in accord with the plan and purpose of Masonry. We were solemnly
told that such effort was 'political,' the use of which word by any ignoramus had beforetime effectually damned every generous proposal and
frightened off timid brothers from labor directed to practical and profitable
ends.
"But year after year the week of observance has attracted ever more
friends and ardent supporters. The objectors were silenced when it was
found that harmony still prevailed, and that a great and lasting benefit was
' being registered by the communiti\!S because of presentation and discussion
of school problems, demonstration of educational methods, and the discovering of existing needs. Other jurisdictions, noting what of good had been
accomplished, have followed it also in making the observance a fully community affair, with Masons taking their place among the general body of
the citizenry in considering the most important of all public institutions.
"There are now few if any to openly criticize. Experience is the best
and surest of teachers, and unqualified success of the California experiment
has convinced erstwhile doubters and i;ritics, where argument had failed. As
a consequence it is widely accepted among American Masons that the
·public school~ are to be at all times championed by the Craft. This is as
it should be-the children of today will be the citizens of tomorrow. Upon
their shoulders will rest the weighty responsibilities of community, state
and national life. Huge affairs of the time to come, already shaping dimly
upon the horizons of thought, will demand far more from the men and ·
women of another generation than is required from ourselves, even though
to us the puzzles of existence are baffling and the situation appears as filled
with perils. For .such reasons Masons, in common with all good citizens,
should strive mightily tci <1-dvance and keep at highest level the cause of
popular edu~ation, and to insist that the public schools shall be fitted in all
things for their gigantic tasks."
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ROBERT A. ODELL,
}ORN B. BEMAN.,
MELVIN E. BowMAN,
L. E. CHENOWETH,

A. R CLIFTON'
.WILL C. CRAWFORD,
PERCY R. DAVIS,
DR. WALTER
GOODFELLOW,
F. A. HENDERSON,
]. L. HousE,
FREDERICK F. MARTIN,
]AMES T. MONTANO,
E. B. SKINNER,
STEADMAN G, SMITH,
CHARLES E. TEACH,

v.

Adopted.

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
WALTER L. BACHRODT,
ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,
RoY W, CwuD.
WILL CROCKET,
VIRGIL E. DICKSON,
ELIAS E. ELLISON,
C. BURNHAM HERYFORD,
0. S. HUBBARD,
EINAR
JACOBSEN,
GEORGE
JENSEN,
WESLEY
KERGAN,
JosEPH P. NouRsE,
WILLIAM G. PADEN,
VAUGHAN MACCAUGHEY.

w.
c.
w.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
HOSP~TALS

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, to whom was referred the resolution of Angeles Mesa
Lodge No. ·625, "to investigate a matter of erecting, maintaining and carrying
on two Masonic hospitals, one in San Francisco and one in Los Angeles, and
the feasibility of establishing such hospitals or the establishment of Masonic
wards in existing hospitals," beg leave to report as follows :
We have communicated with the several grand jurisdictions of the United
States and find that at the present time there is no hospital maintained for or
by Masons, recognized by or under the authority of any Grand Lodge, and
although we have heard of Masonic hospital associations, we have been unable
to find any that were not in every sense o·f the word private corporations and
not recognized in any way by the Masonic authorities of their respective communities.
In the course of our investigation, we found that the grand jurisdiction
of New York had built a very magnificent memorial hospital on the grounds
of the Masonic H ome at Utica, New York, with funds collected just before
the conclusion of the World War for war relief purposes. A member of this
committee was informed by the superintendent some years ago on his visit
to this hospital that it had been the intention to allow Masons from any part
of the state to use this hospital, but that this was found to be impracticable,
and it was then and is now, only used by the residents of the Home.
Incidentally, this hospital has a capacity of somewhere around 200, represents a $1,000,000 investment for the building and several hundred thousand
dollars for equipment, the latter being donated in a large part by the various
Lodges of the state.
There is one, and as far as we know, only one hospital maintained by a
Masonic jurisdiction for the brethren generally, and that is the hospital at
Melbourne, Aust ralia, just recently completed under the Grand Lodge of Victoria. We quote:
"The intention of the Board of Control was to provide general hospital care for all members of the craft wishing to avail themselves of
this facility, and to extend a helping hand in sickness to those town or
country members who could not afford private or intermediate hospital
rates in other institutions, or employ the services of specialists,"
In pursuance of this plan a hospital has just been completed with a capacity of sixty beds, which will be used for general surgical and medical
purposes, but will not take care of children or obstetrical cases. It has been
so designed and land acquired, so that it can be developed when funds permit to
an ultimate capacity of 250 beds. It is interesting to note that the cost, at
the present time, for this sixty-bed hospital, exclusive of land, has been $344,028.
At the time of writing thii report, the hospital not having been open a sufficient length of time, we have been unable to ascertain anything regarding
their success or the difficulties encountered, as well as the cost of hospital
maintenance of this institution.
Your committee recognizes the problems confronting the average man
today when hospital care is needed. We know the cost of such care and we
have carefully gone over the report of the Committee on Medical Care, headed
by Ray Lyman Wilbur of Stanford University, some few years ago ; we have
read the report of the Julius Rosenwald Fund, issued this year, and a large
part of the "Hospital Survey of New York," as well as the reports of New

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

438

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

York City and other communities where hospital group insurance maintains,
and we have come to the conclusion first, that the buildh1g of hospitals by the
Grand Lodge of California in Los Angeles and San Francisco would mean
the outlay for capital expended of at least $2,000,000. Second, establishment
of Masonic hospital wards in existing hospitals by Grand Lodge would give
those living in the vicinity of these two cities an advantage over the membership in rural districts; third, the incident of illness is personal and the membership at large cannot be taxed to meet the expense of either method suggested.
We find that from 28 to 33 per cent of existing hospital beds are unoccupied and that hospitals generally are running in the red due to this fact.
In the last few years the voluntary hospitals of over sixty cities have
developed "group insurance," whereby a group in a particular industry can
provide in advance for hospital care.
We have a feeling that within the next two years this group hospital
insurance is going to be available in most communities where hospital facilities are available. We realize that the individual cannot take advantage of
the low rates afforded by such insurance unless he belongs to a group as
represented by a craft, or a commercial establishment, or a lodge. We. believe
that a law should be developed that would enable the Masonic Lodges of this
state to set up an organization which would enable its members to take advantage of the low rates established by this insurance.
Your committee, therefore, recommends that the construction and maintenance of the two Masonic hospitals, one in San Francisco and one in Los
Angeles, or the establishment of Masonic wards in existing hospitals, as
suggested in the resolution creating this committee, not be carried out.
Respectfully submitted,
C. M. WOLLENBERG,
Roy PARKINSON,
HALCOTT H. THOMAS,

Committee.

Adopted,

439

RESOLUTIONS
The following resolutions were presented:
By Chas. R. Cooper: To authorize ti~ Finance Committee to report on
awropriations for publication of manual for Lodges.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
By H . H . Gehrke and others, Las Palmas Lodge No. 366: To amend
Section 87 of the Constitution to permit the investment of Lodge funds in
Federal insured building and loan associations.
Referred to Commi(tee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Chas. R. Cooper : To amend Section 27 of the Constitution by adding
the following: Provided, that at least one Master and one Warden shall be
appointed on each of said committees.
Referred to Jurisprudence Committee.
To amend Section 87 of the Constitution by striking out the last clau.se
of the first paragraph, which reads as follows: "And no warrant shall be
drawn therefor unless there are sufficient funds to meet it, except in extreme
cases of Masonic necessity or charity."
Referred to Jurisprudence Committee.
To amend Section 42 of the Constitution to provide that in case of the
dissolution of a Lodge the life membership funds in such Lodge shall revert
to the life member on affiliating with another Lodge.
Referred to Com~ittee on Policy and General Purposes.
To amend Section 129 of the Constitution to provide that on the death
of a life member the amount paid therefo r shall revert to the general fund
of the Lodge. To further provide that in case of dissolution of a Lodge the
amounts credited to a life member shall be applied to dues or a life membership
in the Lodge with which he may, within six months, affiliate.
Referred to Committee on Po1icy and General Purposes.
By A. J. Koenigstein, Ojai Lodge No. 663: Providing that all resolutions
to be presented to Grand Lodge shall first be approved by the Lodge of which
the sponsor is· a member; that on the adoption of any such resolution it shall
be the duty of the Secretary thereof to file a copy of the same with the Grand
Secretary not less than sixl days prior to the annual communication of Grand
Lodge; that the Grand Se tary shall send to each Lodge, within thirty days
prior to Grand Lodge, a copy of each such resolution.
Also, that the voting power in Grand Lodge shall be vested exclusively
in the representatives of the Lodges, each Lodge having one vote.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

'·

By Gordon F. Black, Riverside Lodge No. 635: Providing that Masonic
halls may not be rented or used for meetings of employers or employes for
the discussion of political, industrial or labor disputes.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Irving A. Muffett, Arcadia Lodge No. 547: Providing that October
8th of each year shall be set aside and designated "Peace Day," for the purpose of promoting peace throughout the world.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

440

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

By Clarence W. Peck, Whittier Lodge No. 323: To provide that the/
old system of teaching the ritual, with a full-time paid Grand , Lecturer at an
adequate salary, be restored.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Carl H. Seamans, Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469 : That Grand Lodge
provide for a paid caretaker and custodian. of the relics in the vault of Westel:n
Star Lodge.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
By C. E. Mallachowitz, Caledonia Lodge No. 486 : That Section 6 of the
Constitution be amended to provide that the exact cost of vansportation be
paid to representatives to Grand Lodge.
Referred to ,Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
That whenever in the Constitution relief is mentioned (Sections 90, 163,
and others) there be added the clause, "insofar as it may do so without serious
injury to itself."
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

3Jn ~ranb JLobge
MORNING SESSION
Wednesday, October 13, 1937.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 o'clock, the Grand
M ster presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and appr~ved.

THE SESQUICENTENNIAL OF THE CONSTITUTION
OF THE UNITED ST ATES
By LLOYD E. WILSON
Assistant Grand Lecturer

That the Masonic Home fee be not assessed .in the case of affiliation.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
That the pay of the Grand Secretary be fixed at $5,000 for all services
performed.
Referred to Committee on Finance.
That members be not paid for their transportation until after the installa·
tion of officers of Grand Lodge.
Referred to C_ommittee on Policy and General Purposes.
That the tenure of office of the Grand Secretary be six years, for one
term only.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Brother John E. Roberts and other officers of Angeles Mesa Lodgt:
Providing that the incoming Grand Master appoint a committee and report at
the next annual communication relative to the matter of group insurance for
members of th~ fraternity.
Reforred to 'Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By J. W. Eddy, Past Master of Paso Robles Lodge No. 286: Proposing
to amend Section 129-A of the Constitution by providing that Masons who
· engage in the liquor business shall ipso facto stand exiielled from all the
rights and .privileges of Masonry.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

At S :10 p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until 10 :00 o'clock
Wednesday morning.

441

To the M.'.

w:. GrOAUJ Lodge of California:

It is fitting that this Grand Lodge should take time during its annual
communication to observe the Sesquicentennial of the Constitution of ' the
United States. It would be fitting for any body of men thus assembled to
properly observe an event of such importance but it is especially appropriate
for a company of Masons to pay a proper tri~ute to the instrument of govern-·
ment under which they live.
The part which Masons had in the events preceding the Declaration of
Independence is well known e.nd likewise we are all familiar with their participation in the drafting of that important document. Suffice it say that twentr~
nine of the signers of the Declaration of Independence were Masons, numbeting in that group such important men as Samuel Adams, Benjamin Frankljn,
Thomas Jefferson, Robert Morris, Roger Sherman and others. It is not surprising in view of the general participation of Masons in the events leading up
to the Revolution that we should find them active in the actual warfare. From
the Commander-i~-Chief, Brother George Washington down to the privates in
the ranks, we find Colonels, Majors, Captains, Lieutenants and the backbone of
the army, common · soldiers, Master Masons. Such outstanding _heroes of. the
War for Independence as Alexander Hamilton, John Marshall, James Madison_.
General Greene, G~neral Lee, General Sullivan, Lord Sterling, La FaY,ette,
General Steuben, Montgomery, Jackson, Gist, Knox and Ethan Allen w.e re inen
who had distinguished themselves not only as soldiers and patriots · but as,
Masons.
It is interesting however that well known as is. the participation of Masons
in th.e events prior to 1787, there is not the same general knowledge and app,reciation of the part played by Masons in the drafting of the Constitution of the
United States and the struggle for its i:atification. This may perhaps be due
to the general failure of all men everywhere to fully appreciate the significance
of what took place in that constitutional convention and the difficultie~ which
beset it. ·Important as was the Declaration of Independence and vital as . was
the Revolution, both would have succeeded of themselves and failed of the
final objective if the Constitutional Convention had failed to . achieve the result
which has come to be known as the greatest document ever struck off ·by the
mind and purposes of man at a g.iven time. There is perhaps no more false
statement ·that could be made about the Constitution than that it was·' strtic~

442

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

off at a given time ·by a body of men inspired by th~ occasion and consciously
guided by a beneficent Providence.
In order to fully understand what happened in the historic hall in the City
of Philadelphia from May 14 to May 17, 1787, it is necessary to go back an
view again the circumstances which gave rise to the meeting and the backgroun
against which the drama was to be played. When the Revolution started n
1776 with the shot that was heard round the world, the thirteen colonies w e
by no manner or means united in the cause which was soon to test thJ ir
strength. As the war progressed it became evident that they must unite or fall
and the very good prospect of failure became a uniting force rather than .the
sense or awareness of a common cause. We need only to remind ourselves of
the difficulties which beset Washington to recall that there was no strong
central government capable of winning support for the cause or strong enough
to demand financial support for the army. Had there been any responsible
body in control of the affairs of the colonies, the sinews of war, food, clothing, equipment and money with which to pay the troops, would have been
forthcoming. More than once the enemy was on the verge of a decisive
victory against inadequately equipped regiments, only to be cheated of that
victory by the strategy of leaders who did not dare to risk the issue. The war
could have been brought to a much earlier conclusion had there been a strong
central governing body that had the confidence of all the colonies.
The need for such a government became apparent long ·before the close
of the war and the Second Continental Congress, in an effort to establish
such a government, drafted the Articles of Confederation. This instrument
was presented to the colonies for their approval in order that it might be
put into operation, but it is interesting to note that it was not adopted by
enough of the thirteen to make it operative until 1781. This failure of this
government could easily be anticipated and may ·best be illustrated by the fact
that during one period the government sent out a call for taxes totaling
$8,000,000 and received less than $400,000.
This, then, was the form of government under which the colonies were
when the peace was finally signed that made them forever independent from
Great Britain, and by the same act launched them on their own among the
nations of the world. Faced immediately by all the problems of international
intercourse, the need of paying the debts incurred by the war, the urgent
necessity of establishing foreign trade and getting as rapidly as possible upon
friendly terms with the other countries, it was inevitable that the colonies
should at once begin to feather their own nests and promote only those
enterprises or alliances which were most likely to benefit themselves.
With such an attitude prevalent among the separate states it was inevitable that, with the growing problems of commerce and industry, the individualism of each of the colonies should be developed to such a high pitch that
there was no opportunity for united action. Indeed it soon became evident that
there was no hope for a united country and the Articles of Confederation
became almost useless as an instrument of general government. The situation
which faced the young country was not promising. There was a population
of only about three million people, widely scattered over a great area, and
broken up into four major parts, each with distinct interests.
In the New England states, Massachusetts {including Maine), New
Hampshire, Rhode Island and Connecticut, there were about 900,000 inhabitants. Here was the village form of government binding together people with
·something of a common background and a common religion. They formulated
the doctrine of government later expressed in the Declaration of Independence,
that government must rest upon the consent of the governed.
The second main section was that which we might describe as the Atlantic
coast plain. Here the plantation system was in vogue in the states of Delaware,

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

443

Maryland, Virginia, the Carolinas and Georgia. The population was about
l,20e,OOO, of whom half were slaves.
The Middle States was the region between the plantation country and
ew England, consisting largely of three great river valleys, the Hudson, the
usquehanna, and the Delaware, which ran into the three gi;-eat ba~s, and near
ose mouths stood the important cities of New York, Ph1ladelph1a and Balo re. The population was about 700,000.
The last major division of the country was that great moui:itain r.egion from
ce tral Pennsylvania to northern Georgia, a belt about 150 miles w1?e and 700
mil s long. This was the frontier of the day and had a population of not
to ~ceed 150,000.
1such a wide diversity of interests would have been difficult to compromise
1
under a strong central government, but it was ~ext to i~possible ~nde! the
Artitles of Confederation. The air was filled with rebellion and dissatisfaction. Two hundred former soldiers of Washington's ar?1Y m~rched on Cong~ess,
assembled in Philadelphia, and so menacing was their attitude that by. night
Con~ress stole away to Princeton and later to New -york to hold their ses.
sions. A group of Washington's former officers devise~ a pl.an to secr~tly
overthrow the government, and had not a copy of their notice fallen mto
Washington's hands it is likely that they would have succeeded. The masses,
fired to a frenzy by their own suffering, revolted in M.assac~us~tts, under the
leadership of an old soldier named Shays, a?~ so ;ap1dly did 1t spr.ead ~hat
one-fifth of all the citizens of Massachusetts iomed m the revolt and 1t gamed
a following in other states. When this rebellion was finally suppressed the
only person punished was the Governor of Massachusetts, whom the peop~e
refused to reelect because he had used force to carry out the oath of his
office in doing his duty.
This then, was the general state of disunion and discord which prevailed
ih 1786 ~hen the Governor of Virginia invited all the states to send delegates
to a convention to be held at Annapolis in September, 1786, to consider how
far the states could agree upon common regulations of commerce. When the
date of the meeting arrived there were too few delegates present to take any
action and so they contented themselves with issuing another call for a convention to be held in Philadelphia on the second. Monday in May, 1.787, "to
take into consideration the situation of the United States, to devise sue~
further provisions as should appear to them necessary to render the Constitution of the Federal Government adequate to the exigencies of the Union."
This suggestion was finally approved by the dying Congress, on January
21 1787 but with the proviso that the convention "be for the sole purpose
of' revislng the Articles of Conf~eration and ~eporting to. Congress and the
several legislatures such alterat10ns and prov1s1ons therem as shall, when
agreed to in Congress and co?for~ed to by the; s~~tes, render the Federal
Constitution adequate to the ex1genc1es of the Union.
When the day arrived for the opening of t~e session. there ~er: present
only the delegates from Virginia and Pennsylvania. Washmgton, m 111 health,
had ridden on horseback for four days in ocder to reach the scene and that
would seem to indicate that in some respects at least tim~s ~ave not chang~d
very much. The most capable an~ ~usy men usually start m time to keep their
• appointments. only to 1be kept. wa1tmg . by less busy and less capable men who
attach little importance to their own time or that of any one else.
As the days passed additional delegates arrived and finally on May 25, 1787,
there were enough present to begin deliberations. Washington was elected
President and the long session was begun.
The convention was made up of fi fty-five men although seventy-two had
been elected, indicating that twenty-five per cent of them did not even consider

444

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1t worth ·whil~ to attend, certainly ample evidence that they did not regard
the convention as the starting point of a new and lasting form of government.
The men who did attend were outstanding citizens of high character and purpose; chiefly lawyers, · business and professional men. The average age wa
slightly under forty, ranging from venerable Benjamin Franklin whose eigh one years rested easily upon his shoulders to young Charles Pinckney who e
twenty-nine years placed him at the other extreme.
n lAs the meeting got under way it became quite evident that many plans w re
~o··::oo. :presented and that there were likely to be great differences of opi ion
~n:d pl'obably acrimonious debate. It was decided at the very beginning tha all
deliberations should be secret and that no news should be released to the n wspapers or to any other source from which the public might learn what was
·g oing on, and so well was the rule observed that not only were the d~tails
kept 'from the public then, but nothing was preserved for posterity save the daily
.minutes· and those in the briefest form.
T.he convention rei;riained in session until September 17, 1787, the final day
i.iPon· which the signing took place, but actual work occupied eighty-one days,
tbe. eonyeption adjourning for a day or two at a time to permit members to
'discuss among themselves various proposals and on several occasions the adjqurnment was taken in order to permit belligerents to cool off and become
·more amenable to re.ason.
·
The difficulties which beset the convention and the slight progress made
<'.'f ter four or five weeks of deliberation, may be judged from an address made
.by Benjamin Franklin to the convention at that time, in which he said, in part,
~'In -this situation of this assembly, groping as it were, in the dark to find
political truth and scarce able to distinguish it when presented to us, how has
it happened,. sir, that we have not hitherto once thought of humbly applying
'to t he Father of Light to illumme our understanding ? I have lived, sir, a long
time, ·and the mon: convincing proofs I see of this truth that God governs
the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his
'notice, ·is it likely that an empire can rise without his aid?" He then proposed
that thereafter the convention should engage in daily prayer, but this was
-opposed by many on the ground that if it became known, · it might lead the
people to believe that there was dissension in the convention, and so an adjournment was taken without a vote.
Time does not permit nor does wisdom dictate that we should here spend
our time in an exhaustive analysis of what took place in the four hundred
hours of debate on the plans and proposals that finally produced the ultimate
,Prixlu.ct. Suffice it to say that the convention which met to amend the Articles
pf Confederation quickly discovered that it could not successfully sew new cloth
to .old and make a sound garment and consequently turned almost at once to
the task of framing an entirely new instrument of government.

'm

While we might like to think that the final draft of the Constitution
was ilP ipspired document that fell from the hands of the delegates at a given
.ti~e .and jn .a given form, yet it was far from that and was in fact a series of
~ornpromises. Thre~ _great cqmpromises were made without which the conventiop. must have .adjourned without accomplishing anything. The first was between · the large and small states by which all states were to have equal rep re- •
sentation in the Senate and proportionate representation in the lower house.
The second chiefly affected the Atlantic plain and southern states with the
plantation system and provided that in computing taxes and determining representation, only three fifths of the slaves were to be counted. A clau,se was
inserted whereby the slave trade was not to be prohibited prior to 1808. The
final compromise disposed of a conflict between the northern commercial states
and the southern agricultural states whereby Congress was given control of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

445

commerce, both interstate and foreign, but was prohibited from levying taxes
n exports.
On September 8, the hardest labor had been completed and the work was
t med over to a Committee on Style with instructions to draft the final form.
T· e committee reported on September 12 and the following day the printed
dr ft was ready. The next three days were spent in carefully comparing each
art cle and section of the final draft and on September 15 the work was consid ed completed, adopted and ordered to be engrossed for signing. The net
res t consisted of about four thousand words, 0 nly eighty-nine sentences and
abou one hundred and forty distinct provisions. Never before nor since has
such a brief document laid down such principles and rules on so vast a range
of m tters of the highest importance and complexity.
n September 17 the convention met for the last time. The document had
been engrossed and was laid before the members for signing. Of the fi ftyfive who had been present when the convention opened, only forty-two remained at the close and of these some were unwilling to sign the final draft
as individuals. It was at this point that Benjamin Franklin rendered the greatest service to the cause by making an eloquent plea in which he freely stated
that he did not approve all that had 1been done but that he had discovered in his
long years that the older he grew the more apt he was to doubt his own
judgment and pay more respect to the judgment of others. He concluded by
saying, "On the whole, sir, I cannot help expressing a wish that every mem'ber of the convention who may still have objections to it, would with me,
doubt a little of his own infallibility-and to make manifest our unanimity put
his name to this instrument." Franklin then moved that the Constitution
when signed be attested as "done in convention by the unanimous consent
of the States represented." This latter wise suggestion made it possible for
the document to be presented to the Congress and to the legslatures as one
having the united support of all who were present. Of the twenty-eight Masons
who were elected delegates, only eighteen remained throughout and finally
signed the Constitution, but numbered among them were some of the strongest
and ablest, Benjamin Franklin, Alexander Hamilton, Rufus King, James Madison, Robert Morris, Charles Pinckney, Roger Sherman and George Washington, to name but a few.
These men were equally prominent in the great struggle for ratification
for it soon became evident that the leading men of the various states did not
regard the instrument as even workable, much less a great piece of masterful
planning for government. The first state to ratify was Delaware on December
7, with New Jersey, Georgia and Connecticut following in rapid succession.
The real struggle began in Pennsylvania and extended into Massachusetts,
'New York and Virginia. The latter two states did not finally ratify until
after the ninth state, New Hampshire, had accepted the Constitution thus
insuring its trial, and Rhode Island held out until the last, the Constitution
winning in that state by only two votes. The pivotal struggle had been in
Pennsylvania, and had the Constitution failed there, it is unlikely that it could
have been adopted. Upon so slender a thread had hung the destinies of the
United States, that if eighteen men had voted differently, ratification would
have been defeated. If ten delegates in Massachusetts, six in Virginia and two
in New York had changed their votes there would have been no "more perfect
union" and the United States would not have come into existence at that
time, at least.
Such was the situation in which a new fo rm of government was launched
with all the misgivings and dire forebodings that could be assembled about
one enterprise. That the form of government set up under the Constitution
has endured is attributable to three main factors; first, the early return of
p·rosperity with new confidence in the future of the country, second, the per-

446

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
I

sonality of George Washington and the utter confidence which everyone had
in his honesty both of intention and act, and lastly the administrative genius
of Alexander Hamilton who had done all he could to write a different sort o
constitution and, failing in that~ had turned with equal fervor to the task
making the accepted one work. It is to these three factors together with t e
willingness of the American people to live under the form of government wh· h
they had adopted and the sound interpretations of that governing docu nt
by successive presidents and judges, that we owe the unprecedented gro th
of the United States and the happiness of its people,
It is a little short of amazing that a Constitution written one hundre and
fifty years ago and designed for the government of thirteen relatively mall
's tates with a population of only 3,000,000 people should have survived th tremendous development that has taken place since that time. Not only h~s the
country grown to forty-eight states, 3,000,000 square miles and 128,000,000
people, but the problems of such a nation have grown beyond the physical bortlers. The development 1of · rapid transportation, even more· rapid communication and the involvments of interstate, intrastate and foreign commerce have
pre;ented to each subsequent generation problems of which the founders never
dreamed and could they have foreseen them, it is entirely probable that they
would have considered it utterly impossible to draft a Constitution that could
meet such situations. Nevertheless the problems have confrdnted the nation and
we have come to this day through as amazing a development as any people
have ever witnessed and the Constitution with its relatively few amendments
has proved adequate to every difficulty.
We are not to infer from this progress and the adaptability of the Constitution that it has all been without a struggle. In every generation with its
growing difficulties there has been a small or larger group ready to demand
'change in both Constitution and form of government. There are always with us
those to whom the old is unacceptable and who cry for change, and there are
likewise those who would not hesitate to change both language and form if
need be, to accomplish their purposes.
This is not confined to any one person or set of persons any more than it
is confined to any one age. We have those today who tell us that the Consti.tution is outmoded, that it can no longer meet the changing needs of current
times,. and that our form of government as established by the Constitution is
fast breaking down. These people would have us believe that if only the country
would adopt the constitutional changes they suggest, or scrap it altogether for
some other form of government, that all our worries and cares would drop
away like flies in cold winter and that the gates of an earthly paradise would
be thrown open to a weary people. We are told that we now have but one
choice; either that of Communism or Fascism, both forms of dictatorship, the
one of the masses and the other of the classes represented by one person as
dictator. Admittedly, there is always danger of the overthrow of government,
especially when you have accepted the principle that that government derives
its just powers from the consent of the governed and when any party in government holds human rights and life lightly, it is to be expected that aroused
groups of people will likewise hold life and property lightly, ·b ut I do not
concede that we have only the choices already referred to.
There is another choice that is ours and one which we 'have so far elected
to continue and that is the preservation of the American system of representative government, known as democracy. My brethren, there is a danger to that
system today but the greatest danger is not from the comparatively small
group of Communists nor is it from the even smaller group of Fascists. It is
from that group of elected representatives of the people who take their responsibilities lightly and who have forsaken both their own principles and the
principles of the representative government by their willingness to take the pro-

1

447

gram of those who would dictate for all. When the elected representatives of
he people become content to take program and no longer assemble to make
. rogram for America then, my brethren, democracy is on the way out, ~d ~e
ill turn to some other form of government and you may be sure that 1t will
b one that promises much and delivers little and that little under a despotism
th t makes life miserable for those who love freedom, life, liberty and the pursui of happiness.
The success of the United States up to this day has been due to a basically
sou form of government and the willingness of the people to submit to that
gove nment. The best governmental system in the world will not wor~ if there
is no on the part of the governed a spirit of obedience and cooperation. If we
want to preserve for ourselves and our posterity the government under which
we h ve enjoyed the fruits of our labors, under which we have been free to
enjoy life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness there must be a re~e~ication
of ourselves to the principles of representative government and a w11lmgness
to be bound by those things which mean the greatest good for the. g:eatest
number. There must be a new dedication to obedience to law and an ms1stence
upon the application of that law to all alike, which implies a willingness to
have the law applied to ourselves.
The Constitution of the United St ates does not need to be scrapped or made
over but many unsound ideas of government do need to be scrapped and many
people do need to be made over. This country needs a new bi~th .o f t~at sense
of personal responsibility that characterized the fo~nders and 1t hkew1~e needs
something of the old reverence for those things which have proved their worth
over the years.
We need as citizens and as Masons, to look back and see from what we
have been d;livered by our form of government under · the Constitution and
ask ourselves if we would have been better off without it.
We need to look back over a century and a half of history, see the tremendous changes which have taken place under the Constitution and ask ourselves if it is likely that any change can occur in the future that will be so
great that that same Constitution cannot find the way under law to preserve
the welfare of the nation .
We need to look at all those things which we hold dear in family, home
and country and ask ourselves again if any other nation in all the world enjoys
what we accept so carelessly.
We need to look about us in the world and see the misery that follows in
the wake of revolution the destruction of life and liberty that characterizes.
tyranny of any form a~q ask ourselves if we want that in the United States.
We need, as Masons, to bring ourselves to a fuller knowledge of th.e
blessings that surround us, to a greater appreciation of the beneficent for~ .of.
government under which we live, and as we love our homes and our families
and as we cherish the freedom which we have to worship God as we see fit, we
need to cherish and revere that which stands between us and tyrants-THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.

The Grand Secretary was directed to cause to be printed in
pamphlet form the above address and a copy th~reof sent to ea~h
Lodge in the jurisdiction, with instructions that it be read therein.

448

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Organ Solo-Elegie (Grieg) ·-···········-················Grand Organist
Invocation ··-··········•-..:•·····-········-····.-················Reynold E. Blight
Supreme Grand Master, Whom we approach with the tenderest words we
know upon our lips : Father, mother, love; now at this hour of sorrow we c me
to Thee. We are remembering with overflowing hearts the good men and rue
who so short a time ago formed part of our mystic circle, but who walk wi h us
no more. Even though our hearts are sad we refuse to believe that the goodness, unselfish devotion, and all the excellencies of mind and soul that c~arac­
terized our lost companions have perished forever. The very remembraqce of
them is a benediction, and just as the flower sprouts from the seed, atlld the
glorious blossom of beauty and fragrance bursts from the bud, we are sure
these souls are finding larger and more splendid fulfillment in fairer realms.
Goodness and beauty, truth and love are immortal, because they partake of
Thy Divine nature.
'
We thank Thee that we were permitted the inspiration of their companionship, and rejoice in the blessedness of their memory. "Eternal rest grant them,
0 Lord, and may Perpetual Light shine upon them." Comfort the loved ones
left behind, and may they feel beneath them the Everlasting Arms.
"O Lord, support us all the day long, until the shadows lengthen, and
the evening comes, and the busy world is hushed, and the fever of life is
over, and our work is done; then, in Thy Great Mercy, grant us a safe
lodging, and a holy rest, and peace at the last." Amen.

To the M.'. w:. Grand' Lodge of California:
From the beginning of time men have gathered in one manner or another
to take note of their friends' departure from the activities of this world. This
custom has been adopted as an essential part of Masonry. It is altogether
fitting and proper that we do this because from these occasions are drawn
many useful lessons of life. Each one erects his own monument in his character and deeds. From a review of the deeds of our friends we may learn to
emulate his good qualities and avoid the pitfalls that temporarily ensnared
him. Thus we improve conditions for ourselves and others.
While we may not here review the good deeds of each of those whose
passing we note, and while each one knows only too few of those listed, yet
each one present may take part in this ceremony in realizing that every one
named in this list was for one or more years the Master of his Lodge and
the director of its activities in the community. He had many friends who
placed him in that position and recognized his sterling qualities. They mourn
his loss as a friend and we may well, in this short ceremony, recognize his
service to Masonry.
As we turn our thoughts to those one hundred and ninety-seven brethren
of this Grand Lodge, who have passed to the great beyond during the last
year, may we contemplate the great labors they have performed in our
vineyard and increase our resolve to improve the world by our lives.
From the reports of the secretaries of the constituent Lodges, we report
the loss of the following Masters and Past Masters :
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8:
Isaac Ward Smith, died July 29, 1937.
San Jose Lodge No 10:
James Roger McChenney, died February 17, 1937.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Nevada Lodge No. 13:
Thomas Lacy Jones, died March 19, 1937.
Temple Lodge No. 14:
William Frederick Clewe, died July 11, 1937.
Hartley Williams Gottenberg, died January 21, 1937.
Eureka Lodge No. 16:
Everett Allen Francis, died June 10, 1937.
Washington Lodge No. 20:
Presley Beauregard Johnson, died May 30, 1937.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21:
Moller Vetlesen Love, died November 10, 1936.
Occidental Lodge No. 22:
Herbert Charles Engle, died August 8, 1936.
Madison Lodge No. 23:
William I. Armstrong, died December 23, 1936.
Georgetown Lodge No. 25:
Thatcher T. Lovejoy, died December 15, 1936.
Trinity Lodge No. 27:
Griffith T. Davis, died November 7, 1936.
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30:
Robert Wentworth Dewar, died November 3, 1936.
Franklin Raymond Haley, died April 21, 1937.
George Prescott Vance, died December 20, 1936.
San Diego Lodge No. 35:
Nat Robert Titus, died August 10, 1936.
Melancthon Adam Graham, died December 6, 1936.
Additon Morgan, died January 8, 1937.
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38:
Philip S. Curtis, died April 18, 1937.
Martinez Lodge No. 41:
Reuben Leonard Ulsh, died May 13, 1937.
M;ount Moriah Lodge No. 44:
Theodore Frolich, died October 25, 1936.
William Wilson Smith, died December 27, 1936.
Frank Randolph Whitcomb, died August 7, 1936.
Texas Lodge No. 46:
Thomas Flint, P. G. M., died November 18, 1936.
Illin oistown Lodge No. 51 :
Darius Valrnore Norton, died April 2 , 1937;
Volcano Lodge No. 56 :
Albert Lehn, died Febru.a ry 27, 1937.
Union Lodge No. 58:
William Thomas Phipps, died August 13, 1936.
George Snyder, died August 2, 1936.
Samuel Harbinson, died Aupst 20, 1936.

449

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

450

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Alameda Lodge No. 167:
Live Oak ' Lodge No. 61:
John Allison Beckwith, died June 10, 1937.
Harry Vance Blasdel, died April 17, 1937.

Natoma Lodge No. 64:
Samuel Dowdin, died September 6, 1936.

Amador Lodge No. 65:
Alexander Marshall Gall, died May 22, 1937.

Morning Star Lodge No. 68:
Ira Edward Smith, died March 10, 1937.

Enterprise Lodge No. 70.
Clayton Ellsworth Williams, died November 14, 1936.
Jay Williams Ashley, died March 6, 1937.

Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76:
Albert Crain Wilson, died December 18, 1936.

Humboldt Lodge No. 79: ·
Edward Foster Pettingill, died July 3, 1937.

Ione Lodge No. 80:
Eugene George Woolsey, died March 20, 1937.

St. Helena Lodge No. 93:
Anker Miller, died December 3, 1936.

Clay Lodge No. 101:
Thomas William Jefferson, died October 30, 1936.

Chico Lodge No. 111 :
Joseph Rankin Young, died December 19, 1936.

Concord Lodge No. 117:
Carl Wm. Beaton, died August 7, 1936.

LaFayette Lodge No. 126:
Sydney Espey, died February 5, 1937.

Hermann Lodge No. 127:
John Fischer, died February 20, 1937.

Woodbridge Lodge 131:
George Francis McNoble, died December 13, 1936.
Frank Perrott, died February 22, 1937.

Grafton Lodge No. 141 :
Edward Byron White, died September 28, 1936.

Oriental Lodge No. 144:
Armand Eugene Briggs, died March 20, 1937.
Owen L. Gibson, died October 11, 1937.

Eel River Lodge No. 147:
John William Dixon, died April 14, 1937.

Woodland Lodge No. 156:
Wm. Dykes, died--Thos. Green Hughes, died January 19, 1937.

Farley Benjamin Granger, died August 26, 1936.
Ralph Vanderpeer Richmone, died March 18, 1937.

Mission Lodge No. 169:
Charles Frederic Libby, died September 27, 1936.

Elk Grove Lodge No. 173:
Hugh Beattie, died September 18, 1936.
Stanley R. Gage, died April 6, 1937.

Antioch Lodge No. 175:
Frank Emmett Wright, died June 22, 1937. Past Master
at Oakdale Lodge No. 275 and Senior Warden at
Antioch No. 175 at time of death.

Phoenix Lodge No. 178:
Milford Byron Terrass, died April 17, 1937.

Mendocino Lodge No. 179:
Edwin S. Foster, died January 18, 1937.
Henry H. Jarvis, died January 25, 1937.
James C. Rice, died November 19, 1936.
James W. Todd, died April 8, 1937.

Petaluma Lodge No. 180:
William McEwan, died October 3, 1936.
William Roe Veale, died March 9, 1937.

Evening Star Lodge No. 186:
Alexander Parker, Jr., died May 4, 1937.

Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Francis Ami Braun, died August 9, 1937.
James Henry MacLa.fferty, died June 9, 1937.
Thomas Irving Miller, died August 13, 1937.

Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192:
Charles Ernest Rutledge, died March 29, 1937.

Hartley Lodge No. 199:
James W. Beck, died January 14, 1937.

Pentalpha Lodge No. 202:
Cornelius Welles Pendleton, died September 17, 1936.
Fred Alexander Stephenson, died December 17, 1936.

Olivet Lodge No. 205:
Chas. J. Koopman, died July 8, 1937.

Stanislaus Lodge No. 206:
James Eldred Hosmer, died November 24, 19~6.

Anaheim Lodge No. 207~
W. H. Spake, died January 9, 1937.

Friendship Lodge No. 21,p:
Perley Francis Gosbey, died January 31, 1937.
Louis Eugene Wilson, died September 17, 1937.

San Benito Lodge No. 211:
Henry Adolph Fledderman, died January 28, 1937.
William Henry Walker, died :January 15, 1937..
·

451

I

452

l'lWCEEbINGS OF TIU:

San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214:
Willington Goodwin Wilde, died April 17, 1937.
Monterey Lodge No. 217:
Will Jacks, died January 29, 1937.
Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219:
James Augustus Devoto, died December 29, 1936.
Ginotto Marioni, died January 18, 1937.
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225:
Howell Pratt Capell, died January 24, 1937.
Francis John Rennie, died July 12, 1937.
Athens Lodge No. 228:
Charles Edmund Greene, died November 22, 1936. Inspector of 23rd Masonic District at time of death.

•

GRAflD J.QDGE OF CALIFORNIA

Silver Gate Lodge ?fc>. 296: ·
.
Jarvis Lathrop Doyle, died March 26, 1937.
Edson A. Hornbeck, died August 18, 1936. Past Master
of Southwest Lodge No. 283, National City, Calif.
Liberty Lodge No. 299:
James Robert Shields, died January 14, 1937.
Redlands Lodge No. 300:
Harry E. Horne, died April 21, 1937.
Ontario Lodge No. 301:
Isaac Jones, died March 14, 1937.
Donald Fraser Craig, died October 7, 1936.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307:
Charles Spring Robinson, died December 31, 1936.

North Butte Lodge No. 230:
Thomas Jackson Long, died April 10, 1937.
Colusa Lodge No. 240:
Oscar Robinson, died November 6, 1936.

Temescal Lodge No. ,314:
, Joseph Wesley Chaney, died August 15, 1936.

Santa Ana Lodge No. 241:
Ralph Waite Mead, died March 14, 1937.
Linn Lee Shaw, died June 18, 1937.
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243 :
' John Elmer Welsh, died May 17, 1937,

Emmanuel Lodge No. 318:
Emil Anthon Johnson, died April 21, 1937.

Lodi Lodge No. 256:
Hugh Alexander McKenzie, died May 26, 1937.
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258:
Elmer Gordon Crofts, died July 28, 1937.

Alisa! Lodge No. 321:
Robert Frederick Blacow, died August 10, 1936.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322:
Neal Sorenson, died May 30, 1937.
O. 0. Witherbee, died December 24, 1936.
Newton W. Thompson, died October 27, 1936.
Redondo Lodge No. 328:
Richard Dallum Smith, died March 10, 1937.

King Solomon Lodge No. 260:
Frederick Fullerton Wright, died November 9, 1936.
Lompoc Lodge No. 262:
Royal Philip Batkin, died January 2, 1937.
Durant Lodge No. 268:
John Charles Jensen, ~ied July 6, 1937.
Oakdale Lodge No. 275 :
Edgar Lee Darcey, died January 1, 1937.
Madera Lodge No. 280 :
Frank Joseph Secara, died May 30, 1937.
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286:
Warren Clifford Bennett, died March 6, 1937.
Maxwell Lodge No. 288:
Albert Thomas Butler, died July 15, 1937.
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292:
Frank Wesley Knowles, died November 3, 1936.
Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295:
Edward Allen Peugh, died March 11, 1937.

Sanger Lodge No. 316:
Peter Faller, died March 31, 1937.

Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319:
John Campbell Post, died April 22, 1937.
Frank Handy Brooks, died September 4, 1937.

San Pedro Lodge No. 332:
John Gray, died January 1, 19.37.
Jesse Alexis Jackson, died January 7, 1937.
West Gate Lodge No. 335:
Dr. Daniel Cave, died December 17, 1936. In addition to
being the first Master of this Lodge, he was master
of San Diego Lodge No. 35, in 1886.
Fruitvale Lo,dge No. 336 :
Harry Melville Thornally, died October 28, 1936. .
Oxnard Lodge No. 341:
Edward Roy Gill, died December 29, 1936.
San Fernando Lodge No. 343: '
William Thomas Burr, died July 28, 1937.
Starr King Lodge No. 344:
Charles Floyd Henderson, died January 19, 1937.
Neal McN. Ellsworth, died March 28, 1937.

453

454

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

McKinley Lodge No. 347:
William Henry Johnston, died January 23 1937.
Edward Lincoln Jones, died February 14, 1937.
Sequoia Lodge No. 349:
Edwin Mason Fant, died December 10, 1936.
Palestine Lodge No. 351:
' James E. Huber, died March 13, 1937.
Buena Park Lodge No. 357:
Arvil Arneldo Houston, died September 6, 1936.
Charles Lincoln McComber, died November 15, 1936.
Charity Lodge No. 362:
Harry Carl Smith, died June 15, 1937.
Willits Lodge No. 365:
Fred W. Steele, died December IO, 1936.
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366:
Christian Peter Jensen, died May 5, 1937.
Jewel Lodge No. 374:
Thomas Frederick Hearn, died November 20, 1936.
Mizpah Lodge No. 378:
Willard Marvin Wilber, died April 24, 1937.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380:
Andrew Wylie Griffith, died July 15, 1936.
Orosi Lodge No. 383:
Eddid G. Ledbetter, died--Imperial Lodge ' No. 390:
Lawrence Wm. Allen, died May 8, 1937.
East Belt Lodge No. 391 :
George Albert Wright, died February 23, 1937.
University Lodge No. 394:
Warren Milton Stockwell, died December 7, 1936.
Turlock Lodge No. 395:
Ernest A. Hale, died April 8, 1937.
Fraternity Lodge No. 399:
Joseph Edward Hancock, died December 27, 1936.
Moneta Lodge No. 405:
John Lawrence Watson, died, January 8, .1937.
Honolulu Lodge No. 409:
Leroy Perry Baker, died April 8, 1937.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
Thomas Henry Beatty, died September 27, 1936.
Waucoba Lodge No. 413:
Frank Edward Seglie, died September l.._1936.
Arlington Lodge No. 414:
John Parks Gilmer, died January 25, 1937.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Clovis Lodge No. 417 : ·
Lewis Wills Gibson, died January 16, 1937.
George Jay Taylor, died August 20, 1936.
Midway Lodge No. 426:
James Alvin Calhoun, died February, 6, 1937.
Henry Jason Cook, died June 17, 1937_,
Claremont Lodge No. 436:
Clifford Nott Hand, died November 9, 1936.
Coronado Lodge No. 441:
Rudolph Frederick Bruske, died November 27 1936.
Cecil George Burwell, died March 27, 1937. '
Alfred William Bush, died March 27, 1937.
Peter Mackenzie, died November 20, 1936.
Mt. Diablo Lodge No. 448:
Henry Charles Grisingher, died October I 7, 1936.
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450:
Ralph Mills Albright, died. October 31, 1936.
Thos. Franklin Foree, died April 2, 1937.
Bethlehem Lodge No. 453:
Robert Henry Gay, died March 21, 1937,
Crocker Lodge No. 454:
Alfred L. Stockton, died May 23, 1937.
Golden West Lodge No. 455:
Ebner Mosier Hundley, died February 3, 1937.
Clarence Valentine Farley, died July 4, 1937.
Mount Oso Lodge No. 460:
Joseph Samuel Winkler, di~d March 24, 1937.
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462:
George Washington Kennedy, died May 26, 1937.
Fellowship Lodge No. 480:
William Gordon Ewing, died September 26, 1936.
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506:
Paul Clayton Washburn, died February 21, 1937.
Palms Lodge No. 512:
Alexander Young, died July 6, 1937.
Catalina Island Lodge No. 524:
Albert Bascon Waddingham, died December 10, 1936.
Covenant Lodge No. 527:
Claudias Matthias Johnson, March 26, 1937.
Educator Lodge No. 554 : .
William Charles Leavitt, died April 30, 1937.
White Pine Lodge No. 555:
Elmer :Wallace Crockett, died November 4, 1936.
George Edmund Townes, died April 22, 1937.

455

456

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

West Adams Lodge No. 565:
Joseph George Davies, died February 15, 1937.
J. Walter Miller, died January 29, 1937. Past Master
Robert Burns Lodge No. 49, Carmangay, Alberta,
Canada.
Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571:
Gilbert Brydon Ocheltree, died August 4, 1936.
Charles Garfield Ames, died September 22, 1936.
Hillcrest Lodge No. 573:
Walter Francis Milner Edwards, died January 28, 1937.
Escalon Lodge No. 591:
Clare Joseph Coggin, died December 1 7, 1936.
Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595:
Clarence R. Hiatt, died June 4, 1937.
Oliver Jessie Kauffman, died April 25, 1937.
Glassell Park Lodge No. 605:
Wiley Elmer Houston, died January 1, 1937. Master 1937.
Elmhurst Lodge No. 610:
August Boye, died July 9, 1936.
Veritas Lodge No. 64-0:
Leonard Sumner Leavy, died June 11, 1937.
Menlo Park Lodge No. 651:
Fred Clark Metcalf, died March 31, 1937.
Livingston Lodge No. 658:
Joseph Barnett, died May 26, 1937.
Elgin Evans, died August 7, 1936.
Greenleaf Lodge No. 670:
Chas. Osmond Kennedy, died August 28, 1936.
Liberal Arts Lodge No: 677:
Ira Francis Thompson, died August 4, 1937.
By this appropriate pause to pay our respects to the departed members
of this Grand L-odge, let us be reminded that the greatest tribute to a friend
is to give him of our time and counsel while he is here. On the other side
he works along without us. Here we can at least share his burdens and cheer
him along the way. His path may be easy or it may be hard but whichever it
is true friendship should never be lacking. This spirit of friend.s hip has been.
so well expressed by our late dearly loved P. G. M. David J. Reese that his
words are again recalled to you here.
'Tis only a half truth the poet has sung,
Of the house ·by the side of the way;
Our Master-.,had neither a house nor a home,
But He walked with the crowd day by day,
And I think when I read of the poet's desire,
That a house by the road would be good;
But service is found in its tenderest form,
When we walk with the crowd in the road.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

457

So I say, let me walk with the men in the road,
Let me seek out the burdens that crush;
Let me speak a kind word of good cheer to the weak
Who are falling behind in the rush.
There are wounds to be healed, there are breaks we must mend.
There's a cup of cold water to give;
And the man in the road by the side of his friend
Is the man who has learned how to live.
Then tell me no more of the house by the road·
There's only one place I can live :
'
It's there with the men who are toiling along
Who are needing the cheer I can give.
It is pleasant to live in the house ·by the way
And befriend, as the poet has said
But the Master is bidding us, "Bear ye their load,
For your rest waiteth yonder ahead."
I could not remain in the house by the road,
And watch as the toilers go on,
Their faces beclouded with pain and with sin,
So burdened their strength nearly gone.
I'll go to their side, I'll speak in good cheer,
I'll help them to carry their load,
And I'll smile at the man in the house by the way
As I walk with the crowd in the road.

Out there in the road that goes by the house,
When the poet is singing his song,
I'll walk and I'll work, midst the heat of the day
And I'll help falling brothers along;
'
Too :busy to live in the house by the way,
Too happy for such an abode.
And my heart sings its praise to the Master above
Who is helping me serve in the road.
Respectfully submitted,

wARREN E. LIBBY,
Roy PARKINSON,
w ALTER D. ADRIANCE,
R. HASTINGS GARLAND,
WILLIAM J. PEDEN, JR.

Committee

458

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

459

W. I. Kohnke, .Inspector, as Senior Warden, and Albert Boynton Past Grand

In Memoriam

~aster, as !u.mor War?en. Other official positions were filled b; Past Grand

LEONARD S. LEAVY

.
asters William P. Filmer, Randolph V. Whiting and Charles A Ad
iohn Whiche~, Grand Secretary, with Insp~ctors Foster Dyer and W~~!;
T~onard; ~ss1stant Grand Lecturer Lloyd E. Wilson delivered the eulogy.
h e ~rowd m.attendanc.e was g.reat beyond possible entrance to the temple, and
~ e t rong w~tho~t waited patiently un ti! the funeral cortege started on the
ast stage of its Journey to peaceful Woodlawn Cemetery.

By CHAS. M. WOLLENBERG

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Brother Leonard Sumner Leavy was born in San Francisco March 5, 1876.
He was educated in the public schools of San Francisco, and graduated from
the University of California in 1898 with high honors. Later he was graduated
from the School of Pharmacy. In 1899 he entered the service of the City and
County of San Francisco and continued in its employ in many different
capacities, ·until the time of his death on June 11, 1937.
In 1923, under some new amendments to the city charter, he was placed
at the head of the purchasing department, a most important position, and in
which he not only obtained local, but national recognition. From that time on
he played a most important role in the administration of the affairs of this
city. In 1932 a new charter was adopted creating the office of controller. He
was placed in this most important position on January 8, 1932, and served in
the capacity of controller until his death. In this capacity he became the most
important cog in our municipal administration.
Fearless and honest, yet kindly, he knew how to refuse and not only built
up a budget that was lived up to, but placed our city in the forefront of municipalities financially.
In Masonry, he was initiated December 2, 1916, passed to the degree of
Fellowcraft on December 11, 1916, and raised to the Sublime Degree of Master
Mason on December 22, 1916, in Paul Revere Lodge No. 462. He serv~d
that Lodge as Master in 1921. On May 14, 1926, he dimitted to become a
charter member of Veritas Lodge No. 640, where he remained a valued member until his death. He served this Grand Lodge as Inspector of the 4lst
Masonic District from 1923 to 1935. In the latter year he was appointed a
member of the special committee on Financing Building Projects, which he
occupied to the end. He was a meinber of the Scottish Rite for twenty years,
where he served as .Wise Master of the Rose Croix. In the Rite his worth
was recognized by the conferring of the honorary distinction of Knight Commander of the Court of Honor.
A week before his passing, in apparent perfect health, he remarked, itJ
discussing a funeral he had attended that day, "that he wanted a simple Ma~
sonic funeral, and his friend, the speaker, if living to conduct it."
Death came to this, our brother, without a moment's warning, on the
evening of June 11th. Walking home in company with his son-in-law he staggered and fell to the street; death was instantaneous.
I quote from the daily press: "Neither the hurried newspaper pieces,
written with fingers still stiffened by shock, nor the funeral-born eulogies
of his fellow officials, can begin to tell the story of what the death of Leonard
Leavy means to San Francisco, or what his life has meant to the people of
the city." And so his remains lay in state under the dome of the City Halt,
where he had served these many years and his multitude of friends listened
· to the Mayor and other public officials give tribute to his worth and probity.
He was buried from this hall on June 16th. The craft services were
under the auspices of Veritas Lodge No. 640, of which the deceased was a
founder and Past Master. For this occasion the regular officers gave .way
to others. Past Grand Master Charles M. Wollenberg acted as Master, with

"He ~~d ~~so~sll this 1,i,f~ now ended .will serve as example and inspiration.
1
.
IS
u. dut?' is the one thmg that stands out, commanding attention and deservmg highest praise.
The heights by s~ch men reached and kept,
Were not at tamed by sudden flight ·
For they, w.h.ile their companions slept'.
Were toiling upward in the night.
Tenor Solo-Trust in the Lord (Largo) , Handel... ..... Benjamin Liederman

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In Memoriam
IRA FRANCIS THOMPSON
By ELLSWORTH MEYER

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Since the last communication of this Grand Lodge the Supreme Architect of the Universe has raised many of our brethren to the Celestial Lodge
above. It is fitting that we should note their passing and add our humble words
of tribute to their memory.
Among those who have gone to the Lodge Eternal is Worshipful Brother
Ira Francis Thompson, late Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of California, who for many years was an active and beloved member of · the Grand
Lodge.
Brother Thompson was born on a farm in Crawford County, Wisconsin,
on June 20, 1885. He was orphaned by the passing of both his father and
mother while he was still a baby. His childhood, therefore, was largely spent
behind the plow and in the performance of the other arduous tasks incident
to farm life. At the age of fifteen he came to Eureka, California, where he
secured his high school education. He then enrolled at the University of California at Berkeley and not only earned his own way, but by prodigious effort,
typical of him, he completed the · usual six year course of undergraduate
and law studies in four years. He was thereupon admitted to the practice of
law in 1909 and after one year in one of the leading firms in Oakland, he
moved to Los Angeles where he engaged in general practice until 1923. In
that year his ability and reputation brought him an appointment as a judge
of the Superior Court of that county. The three years he spent on that bench
brought recognition of his talents and his availability for higher office.
In 1926 he was elevated to the DistriCt Court of. Appeal. He soon disclosed that he was well equipped for appellate court work and his elevation,
in 1932, to the Supreme Court of California was received by the bench, bar
and public with the highest approbation. In fact, he had come to be regarded
as such an able and seasoned jurist, surprise would have been caused by calling
attention to the fact that he had reached the highest tribunal of this state less
than ten years after his first judicial appointment, and at the early age of
forty-seven years. His professional career was remarkable and this brief chronicle of his advancement of itself would indicate that he possessed rare talents,
a sterling character and was living proof that under the American system of
government even the freckle-faced boy behind the plow can reach the stars.
This account of his professional career would indicate a life full of activity, and"yet Judge Thompson found time and energy for many other activities and avenues of service to his fellow man. Since we cannot hope to trace
his manifold contributions we shall limit ourselves to an account of his Masonic
career.
He received the three degrees in Elysian Lodge No. 418._at Los Angeles
in 1916, and served as Master in 1921. He was president of the fall class of
1923 in the Los Angeles bodies of the Scottish Rite and, being a remarkably
good ritualist, was soon portraying leading roles in those degrees. As a consequence of his work he was decorated a Knight Commander of the Court of
Honor in 1931.
Shortly prior to 1924 a movement was begun, having for its purpose the
establishment of a Masonic clubhouse near the campus of the University of

GRAND . LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

461.

California at Los Angeles. The initial group of interested parties turned to
him for leadership and as the plan evolved · he became chairman of the board
of directors, which position he still held at his passing. He derived particular
pleasure from his connection with the Clubhouse 'and always entertained the
keenest interest and affection for the young people there, sentiments which
they heartily reciprocated toward him. To do justice to his labors for the
clubhouse alone would require more than our allotted time, but it may truly
be said that he, more than any other one person, was responsible for the magnificent edifice which stands near the southern campus, a ,mpnument to Masonry
and a man.
In 1929, as the new community of Westwood Hills began its phenomenal
growth, it became apparent that a Masonic Lodge should be established there:
Several groups began but they naturally gravitated into one, with the· result
that Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677 was instituted in 1930, with Brother Thompson, already a Past Master, as its first Master, and i:he father of ·itS plan of
Masonic research. He was reelected and served throughout 1931 a!So.
For many years he served the Grand Lodge in varying capacities. In·addition to his thirteen years as chairman of the Board of Directors of the club"·
house, he for several years was a member of the Committee on Ma.s onic Education; during 1934 he was on the Grievance Committee, and in 1935 was Grand
Orator. Many present tQday will recall the stirring and masterful grand oration which he delivered from this platform at that communic?.tion.
His honors, civic and fraternal, were mariy and varied, but in the hea'rts
of his friends he received his greatest recognition. He possessed a character
which was never questioned and even in his greatest triumphs he was ever
mindful of his early struggles and always helping some one up the path of
life. He adored his Creator, he was an uncompromiSing ·patriot, a devoted
husband and father, a true and trusty friend, a benefactor of his fellow man,
a man and a Mason.
His passing on August 4, 1937, a.t the age of fifty-two years, se.ems all
too soon ; yet
As today we him revere,
And his farewell we seem to hear,
As he puts out to sea, sailing toward eternity,
Uplifted high in heart and hope are we,
·
Until we doubt not for one so true
There must be other nobler· work to do.
Violin Solo-Abendlied (Schumann) ........................Waldemar Lind

462

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In Memoriam
THOMAS FLINT
By DANA R. WELLER
To the M.'. W.'. Gra11d Lodge of California:

Thomas Flint, born May 19, 1858, at San Juan Bautista, and died November 18, 1936, at Hollister, aged 78 years.
He was married December 2, 1896, to Anna May Fisk, at Woodstock,
Vermont, who bore him five children, all of whom survive him.
After receiving preliminary schooling in California he attended Dartmouth
College, graduating in 1880 with the degree of A. B., and received the A. M.
degree from the same college in 1883.
Initiated in Texas Lodge No. 46, at San Juan Bautista, on March 12, 1881,
and raised April 23, 1881; served as Senior Warden in 1883-4, and· as Master
in · 1884 ahd in 1892.
In Grand Lodge he was appointed Grand Sword Bearer in 1893, and in
1894 was elected Junior Grand Warden; 1895 Senior Grand Warden; 1896
Deputy Grand Master: and in 1897 was elected and installed Grand Master.
All these positions he filled with credit and honor.
In 1895-6 he served as Grand High Priest of Royal Arch Masons.
In 1894-5 as Grand Patron of the Order of Eastern Star.
His fraternal activity was not confined to Masonry alone.
In 1891-2 he was Grand President of the Native Sons of the Golden West.
He was a charter member and Past Exalted Ruler of Hollister Lodge
No. 1436, B. P. 0. E.
In reporting upon his address as Grand Master the committee stated :
"He has wielded the emblem of authority with which you invested him unsullied by any act unworthy 0£ our noble fraternity, and in such a manner as to
reflect honor upon himself."'
·
His activity in Grand Lodge did not cease on his retirement as Grand
Master. He was constant in his attendance at our communications, always
ready and willing to assume any task imposed upon him.
In 1908 he was appointed a Trustee of the Masonic Homes, serving until
1917. His services to the Homes were of incalculable benefit. His soundness
of judgment, the wisdom of his counsel, and his invariable kindness and courtesy endeared him to all with whom he came in contact, and aided materially
in paving the way to the present high state of efficiency in the management Of
our institutions.
"
In civic affairs his career was no less notable and honorable. Elected to
the State Senate in 1889, he served four terms, or until 1905, the last ten years
as President pro tern, a position he filled with great distinction.
Perhaps the greatest eulogy which could be pronounced upon the life of
this truly distinguished man and Mason is that contained in an editorial printed
in the local paper at Hollister shortly after his death, which is quoted in part:
"Thomas Flint is dead. But the stories of his hatred of political skullduggery, the stories of his love of fair play and honesty in dealing with his
fellow man, and the stories of his devotion as a husband and a father, will
not die with him.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

463

"Those of younger generations in San Benito County are not so v.:ell aware
of the part the local man played in the government of the state. Still, at the
turn of the century there were few persons in California better known than
Thomas Flint, energetic, scrupulous, presiding officer of the State Senat.e, the
man who passed up the governorship because he refused to bow to the dictates
of a 'political boss' he mistrusted.
.
.
"Admired and respected in his political and fraterna.1 hfe, Mr. Flmt carried his honesty into his private life as well. As owner of the l~,000 acre
San Justo Rancho he leased a larg_e portion of his land. ~he story is told of
his refusal to lease the land to other interests at a much higher rental because
by doing so would have forced se~eral worthy families, who had no other
prospects of a livelihood, off the s011.
.
"Tolerant of the weaknesses in others, kindly and· unassuming, he left
the world better for having lived. San Benito Co~mty loses a valuabl~ a'f
worthy citizen in his passing, a native son of which the county was iust Y
proud.''
So lived a loving and devoted husband, a kind and ind11;lgent father,. an
honest and efficient public officer, a staunch and steadfas! friend, and a iust
and upright Mason. We shall always cherish his memory m our. hearts. as one
whose example is worthy of emulation, and while we mourn h_1s passmg, :ve
are sustained by the belief that he is happy in his Father's house m the Celeshal
Lodge above, into which we are confident he has been found worthy of admission.
Benediction.
Tenor Solo-Taps (Custance) ........- ....... Benjamin Liederman

At 12 :25 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00
o'clock.

464

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3Jn C!?r anb 1Lobge
·AFTERNOON SESSION
Wednesday, October 13, 1937.
Gr.a.nd Lodge was called on at 2 :00 o'clock, the Grand Master
.presiding,
·
·

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC .HISTORY
To the M:. w:, Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History has made no rare or dramatic disi:overies du.ring_ .the past year, but we are able to report a research that has
added definit~ irifo_rmation concernin~ our Grand Lodge history for the first
five years of its existence. The facts, briefly, are as follows:
The f).rst volume of our recognized Proceedings covers the records of Grand
Lodg11 from its formation in 1850 to the year 1854 inclusive. A foreword in
that volume states that the proceedings were reprinted in 1856 by order of the
~r~nd Lodge, because of the lack of sufficient copies then existing. Records
ind1~ate that 250 co~ies had originally .been printed for each Grand Lodge
sess1oq of the preceding five years. It has always seemed' strange that out of
that total of 1250 copies none seemed to 'have escaped the ravages of time.
There were vague reports that copies did exist in far away places. Meanwhile
a popular story had grown to the effect that all of the original copies had been
purposely dest.roy~d to conce.al certain unpleasant happenings that they were
supposed to contain, and· which had been omitted from the reprinted edition.
The story_ seen:ed. plaustble because there is definite knowledge that certain
!roubles. did exist in those years, and which does not appear in the Proceedings which we now have.
Under these circumstances we were fortunate this year in locating a set
of the Proceedings as originally printed for the Constitutional Convention of
1850, and for the Grand Lodge sessions for .t he years 1850, 1851, 1852, 1853
and 1854. These were kindly placed in our hands for examination and for
comparison with the Proceedings that we now recognize as official. The work
was som~":'hat laborio~s, because there had been considerable rearrangement
of the original Proceedings for each year. Transactions for one day were often
transposed to another to provide a different order or sequence. Notes were
carefully prepared, and ph0tostatic copies made in some instances, from which
a thorough report is being made for our files.
.
· It was disappointing not to have found the story that those original Proceedings were supposed to contain, but we can now definitely refute the tradition that it occurs in those original records. In short, the greater part of the
report of Grand Master Hyam for that year is miss ing, In the first page
of his address we find this note: "The subject referred to by the Grand Master
in connection with the late difficulties in this state, commencing here and
ending on the 57th page of his address, are left out by mutual consent of' him?elf and Gra~a .Lodge." We would certainly like to know just what appeared
in those 56 missing pages ! From other sources, however, we have some documentary evidence of some of the things that must have been discussed in the
missing parts of his address, but like our brethren of 1852, we have decided
·
to omit that information from this printed report.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

465

During the year we have prepared an index with cross reference; of the
Proceedings of Grand Lodges since its organization. This painstaking work
of several months on the forty-four volumes of our Proceedings has opened
a storehouse of valuable Masonic information, and made it available and usable.
It is our purpose to enlarge the scope of this index to cover other historical
sources.
On August 20th of this year we addressed a letter to the secretaries of
our jurisdiction asking for copies of Lodge bulletins and publications for
reports on the compilation of the histories of their fifty-year Masons, and
whether Lodges had fireproof safes or vaults for their records. The prompt
and generous response of the secretaries overwhelmed us to such an extei;it
that we have not been able to express individual thanks, and must take this
means of expressing our appreciation for their wonderful cooperation.
The number of bulletins has overtaxed our capacity for display, but we
are showing as many .as possible in our exhibit. Replies to our question indicated that Lodges are taking a greater interest in preparing histories of their
fifty-year Masons, and are making a splendid job of this. feature. Some Lodges
are now even securing the history of each member.
There has been a gratifying increase in the number of Lodges that now
have fireproof facilities and reports show that many others are making plans
for suitable protection for their records and relics. In a trip which members
of our committee made with the Grand Master among Lodges of the Mother
Lode we were particularly impressed with the vaults that had been constructed
at Hornitos, Dutch Flat and Georgetown. These small mountain Lodges
have set examples worthy of all imitation.
Here are a few records of unusual years of service that have been given
by faithful brethren to some of the subordinate Lodges:
One brother served Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76 as its Master for twenty
consecutive years.
Brother William Bull Meek was Master of Gravel Range Lodge No. 59
for 28 years. These were not consecutive.
Forbestown Lodge No. 50 had Brother William Schultze as Master for
28 years and four months.
The record as Master seems to go to Brother William Adams, who was
installed as Master of ,Hornitos Lodge No. 98 for thirty consecutive years.
Ione Lodge No. 80 had a Senior Steward who occupied the same position
for thirty-three years.
George W. Pennington was Secretary of Pacific Lodge No. 136 for
thirty-five years.
Yolo Lodge No. 81 had the same Secretary for forty-three years.
Brother Joel Wilder was installed as Tiler of Union Lodge No. 58 for
fifty-three years.
Brother John · Fisher has been a member of Hiram Lodge No. 43 for
sixty-seven years. He has served as an officer for sixty-six of those years,
with twenty-three years in the Master's chair.
We are informed that one Lodge appears to have carried the name of a
woman on its rolls for many years. We wish to stress the fact that they carried the name only. It appears that she belonged to the Eastern Star an.d simply
signed the wrong roll book upon initiation due to the fact that a brother s_erved
as secretary for both organizations and picked up the wrong book. The mistake
was not discovered until recently.

467

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Last night you had an exhibition of lantern slides, depicting certain phases
of Grand Lodge history. The serious pictures were made from material in our
historical files, and are the qeginning of what we hope will some day be a
complete set of lantern slides that may be loaned for entertainment and education in subordinate Lodges. The pictures of Saschel Woods, who brought
the first charter to California, and of Past Grand Master Hyam, were obtained
only recently after a search of five or six years. This will give you some idea
of the difficulty of building up · the complete collection that we hope to secure.

as Grand Master, but they were so appreciative of what the Americans had
done that they unanimously elected Brother William H. Taylor as their first
Grand Master, and Brother Quezon as the Deputy Grand Master. They adopted
as unwritten law that there should be rotation thereafter, and since that time
the office of Grand Master has been regularly alternated between an American
and a native of the Philippines.
The first act of Brother Taylor ilS Grand Master was to appoint Brother
Buencamino as the Grand Bible Bearer of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands. A few days later there was a public parade of the fraternity, which
was something unknown there before that time. It was a proud day for all,
but particularly for the Grand Bible Bearer. With the sacred Book open to
the world before him he passed down streets that were lined. with thousands
of awestruck natives. To many of them a new light was dawning. Here and
th.ere among those who watched the procession pass he saw the bright faces of
many to whom he had read the Holy Word in secret places in those days
before Masonry was brought into the open as it was by the actions of American Masons and our California brethren in particular. We hope to give you
more of the interesting story of the Philippine Lodges at some later date.
Again we would like to remind Lodges of the desirability of maintaining
scrap books of Lodge activities. Lodge bulletins, newspaper clippings, and
pictures will do much to inform new members of your traditions and landmarks. Many Lodges are doing splendid work along these lines and find it
stimulating to the membership at large.
As in several past years the work of your committee is being carried on
by voluntary workers and without appropriation from Grand Lodge. We wish
to express appreciation to those many individuals who have done their bit in
this work and to invite others to join with us. You will find it interesting and
helpful at the same time.
We recommend that a Committee on Masonic History be continued. We
ask for no appropriation at this time.

466

The Grand Lodge of California has a peculiar interest in the Grand Lodge
of the 'Philippine Islands, and we are indebted to Brother William H. Taylor
of this city for an outstanding research on the history of Masonry in those
· islands. We can only give a brief hint in this report of the interesting story
that will be available to you at a later time.
The first attempt to introduce Masonry in the Philippines was in 1756and since that time the fraternity has suffered from bitter intolerance, persecutions and even executions. American Masonry was taken there by our soldiers at the time of the Spanish-American war, but the 'first Lodge under the
jurisdiction of California was not chartered until October 10, 1901. Two other
California Lodges were chartered in the following ten years. In 1912 these
three Lodges, with the encouragement of the Grand Lodge of California,
formed the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands., It is interesting to note
that when they drafted their Constitution they took the Constitution of the
Mother Grand Lodge of California, and simply substituted the "Grand Lodge
of the Philippine Islands" wherever the California name appeared. The next
step was to amalgamate the other twenty-seven Masonic Lodges which held
charters from various far flung jurisdictions, but the consolidation did not
occur until 1917.
Those other Lodges had passed through bitter trials because of the antagonisms of the officials of the dominating church, and the subservient public
officials: The same house was seldom used more than once for a meeting place.
Wh,ile a Masonic meeting was being held it was customary to invite the young
sons and daughters of the members to make merry with song and dance as an
excuse for the gathering. Meanwhile the faithful brethren met in the most
secluded parts of the building. Secret · hiding places were provided for paraphernalia, and Lodge furniture could be ingeniously converted into innocent
appearing household objects.
On one occasion the civil 'authorities unexpectedly arrived to raid such a
meeting. The young folks hushed their singing and the dance ceased. The
brethren opened their doors to the officers, who rushed in and found a group
of substantial men engaged in that game of chance known as "monte." The
part of the banker was being played by the Lodge Master. After the fruitless
raid was over the brother was congratulated for his foresight in coming to
the meeting with a deck of playing cards and the equipment of a gambler.
·
Natives had been forbidden to read or own the King James version of
the Bible! bu~ for years Brother Felipe Buencamino, Sr., would gather natives
around him m caves and secret meeting places and read to them from the
sacred Book. On one occasion, near Manila, the church authorities secured a
motion picture, which was then quite a novelty, and charged one Bible as the
price of admission to the show. The Bibles thus collected were burned in the
public square.
When fusion of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines was completed with
the Regional Grand Lodge of the natives, our American brethren were outnumbered nine to one in the voting representation. Naturally it was presumed
that the Philippine brethren would elect their leader, Brother Manuel Quezon,

Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0. WHITSELL,
ALBERT F. Ross,
MARK A. SAWRIE,
DAVID TULLOCH,
CHARLES

E. HASS,

ROSCOE L. CLARK,
CHARLES INGRAM,

Committee.

Report adopted.

468

PROCEEDING$ ~J THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC EDUCATION
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Masonic Education beg leave to submit the following
report:
Your committee began the year's work with a new chairm.a n and six new
members. We were of the opinion that we should first make a survey of the
act.ivities of Grand Lodge since 1915 along Masonic educational lines. We,
therefore, carefully read those portions of the official Proceedings of the annual commu11ications of this Grand Lodge during the twenty-one years last
past which related to Masonic education. This study included the ~eports of
previous committees on Masonic education, extracts from the messages of
Grand Masters and Grand Orators, recommendations of the Committee on
Finance and of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and the action
of Grand Lodge thereon. We found that while it was proper Masonic education, yet the means to be adopted and the educational lines to be followed,
have been subjects of widespread diversity of opinion. In other words, the
problem was one of method.
Our study then was directed to cull out of these proceedings accepted,
principles underlying a program of Masonic education. We found there were
three, viz. :

1. That Masonic education should be confined to Masonry subjects;
2. That Masonic education should be directed to the candidate, and
3. That Masonic education should not be compulsory.
Since these three principles are the residuum of our experience and apparently have met with the approval of this Grand Lodge, they were adopted
as the basis of our program of Masonic education for the year.
We then turned our attention to other Grand Lodges. We found fhat some
thirty Grand Lodges of the United States have been experimenting with the
problem. From this study we finally concluded that the best method to be
adopted was a Lodge system of Masonic education.
This system is simple, direct,' and costs but little money. The Worshipful
Master of a constituent Lodge appoints a committee of three, five or seven
members.. The candidates meet with the Lodge committee four times-once
before taking the first degree and once after each degree, including the third.
The candidate has nothing to read, nothing to study and no examination
to pass. He only listens while a member of the committee explains something
of the history of Masonry, of the organization of the Lodge and of Grand
Lodge, of a Mason's financial obligations, of the proper attitude of a Mason
to politics and religion, as well as a little of the symbols, rituals, ideals and
purposes of Masonry.
Our Grand Lodge committee suggested ten subjects of discussion for each
of the four meetings, making forty in all. We have appended to this report
a list· of these forty subjects.
We decided to experiment with this system ·in about half a dozen Lodges
of the jurisdiction. But the plan seemed to be so well received that perhaps
thirty Lodges tried it out and found that it worked successfully.
However, we early learned that there was one obstacle to be overcome.
We had no authentic printed information upon these various subjects and we
had no money to publish or buy any. So we communicated with the Board of
General Activities of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of New York. This
board kindly forwarded several copies of its "committee papers." These papers

GRAND LODGE O_F CALIFORNIA

469

comprise a booklet of 138 pages. Your committee read the booklet very carefully and, save for minor changes to conform to California work, we foWld
it to be readable, practical and authentic. We passed copies of this booklet ~o
several Lodge committees and are advised that the booklet meets with their
approval.
This booklet contains a chapter upon each of the. forty suggested subjects
referred to above. We believe that if the booklet could be rewritten so as to
conform to our work it would fill a great need in this jurisdiction. As a
matter of fact, o.u r committee has already prepared a list of the necessary
changes.
We communicated with the New York committee and asked whether, if
duly authorized, we would be permitted to use their pamphlet by copying a
part, word for word, and rewriting the rest, of course giving New York due
recognition. New York graciously replied, in part, "Indeed you may use the
·
material in any way you wish."
We are informed by a reliable California publishing concern that 10,000
copies of the booklet, as so rewritten, could be furnished this Grand Lodge at a
total cost of $987. That cost is .less than ten cents a copy.
Permit us to add that during the twenty-one years this Grand Lodge has
been experimenting with Masonic education our constituent Lodges have raised
121 561 candidates in Masonry. If each of those Masons had been told somethi~g about Masonry what a well informed body of Masons we would today
have in this jurisdiction.
Based upon our study and experience this Masonic year your committee
makes the following recommendations:

1. Tnat the Committee on Masonic Education be continued next year, its
members to be appointed by the incoming Grand Master.
2. That the above outlined Lodge system of Masonic education be used
next year among such Lodges as· agree thereto.
3. That the committee be directed to re-write the booklet above referred
to and known as "Committee Mem~rs' Papers," so it may conform with the
requirements of this jurisdiction.
4. That when approved by the Grand Master as to contents the Grand
Secretary be directed to print 10,000 copies of the booklet as rewritten, and
to distribute the same as he may determine.
5. That the sum of $1200 be appropriated to pay the cost of such publication and for incidental expenses of the committee.
Before the First Degree (select five).

1. A Short History of Freemasonry.
2. The Landmarks.
3. The Tenets. ( Brotherly Love, Relief, and Tr~th.)
4. The Qualifications.
5. The Machinery of Organization in a .Lodge.
6. The Powers and Functions of the Worshipful Master.
7. A Mason's Financial Obligations.
8. Freemasonry's Attitude to Politics and Religion.
9. The Duties and Privileges of Lodge. Membership.
10. The Ballot.

470

471

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

After the First Degree (select five).
1. The Meaning of the Term "Entered Apprentice."
2. An lnterpreta_tlon of the Ritual of the First Degree.
3. Symbols of the First Degree.
4. Duties, Privileges, and Limitations of an Entered Apprentice,
5. Place of the Obligations in Masonic Law.
6. What Freemasonry Owes to Architecture.
7. The Masonic Homes.
8. A Brief History of Masonry in this Jurisdiction.
9.. Famous Men Who Have Been Masons.
10. Office and Duties of a Deputy Grand Master.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON GRAND
LECTURER'S REPORT
To the M.' . w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your .committee to which was referred the annual report of the Very
Worshipful Leslie E. Wood, Grand Lecturer, herewith reports as follows:
The various recommendations contained in the modest yet comprehensive
report of the Grand Lect~rer entirely meets with the approval of your committee.

It is recommended that the portion of his report with reference to a revised
Ritual for stated meetings be referred to the Ritual Committee.
We wish to commend the Very Worshipful Grand Lecturer for his comments, suggestions and recommendations of the greatly misconstrued idea that
officers appointed in the lesser positions shall automatically be advanced from
year to year until the station of the Worshipful Master is reached.

After the Second Degr~e (select five) .
1. Meaning of the Term "Fellowcraft."
2. Interpretation of the Ritual of the Second Degree.
3. Symbols and Allegories of the Degree.
4. Duties and Privileges of a FelloM:raft.
5. Operative Masonry.
6. Solomon's Temple and Masonry.
7. The Office of Grand Master.
8. The Teachings of Masonry.
9. The :r.fason as a Citizen.
10. Masonic F.ducation.

The rapid advancement of Masonry throughout the jurisdiction undoubtedly
warrants the best material obtainable in the severa~ stations of our Lodges.
We cannot but feel that the constructive criticism by the Grand Lecturer
of the generally accepted method of advancing officers in the constituent Lodges
should · be carefully guarded, and we heartily concur in his recommendations.

After the Third Degree (select five).

1. Interpretation of Ritual of Third Degree,
2. Symbols, Emblems and Allegories of Third Degree,
3. The Legend of Hiram Abiff.
4. The Duties, Privileges and Rights of a Master Mason.
5. The Structure and Functions of Grand Lodge.
6. The Lodge and Grand Lodge.
7.. The Annual Commwiication of Grand Lodge,
8. The Financial System of Grand Lodge.
9. Freemasonry and the Holy· Biple.
10. The Literature of Masonry,
A. HEBER WINDER,
N. PERRY MOERDYKE,
WALTER B. GoonFELLOW,
DELBERT BERRY,
Roy BRYAN,
HAROLD W. CONKLIN,
RICHARD H. CHA'M-BERLAIN,

Committee.

The report was referred to the Committee oh Policy and
General Purposes with the exception of that part of the report
relating to Finances.

We desire at this time to express our appreciation, which we feel confident is concurred in by the Grand Lodge, and Masons throughout the jurisdiction, for the splendid administration of the Grand Lecturer's office, and while
Brother Leslie E. Wciod and his able and qualified assistants, in their usual ·
modesty, have refrained from touching upon a greater part of their achievements, a perusal of the Grand Lodge reports showing the rapid growth of
Masonry in this jurisdiction undoubtedly reflects the highly efficient administration of that office and mutely speaks volumes for him in his work as a man
and a Mason.
'
We therefore move the adoption of his report.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN McRAE,

A. D. POTTS,

w. DEL. RICHARDS,
Committee.

Adopted as read.

472

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE
MASO NRY

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Accounts has met at the office of the Grand Secretary
each month in accordance with Constitutional requirements, and has audited
and approved such bills, claims and demands as were found in order.
With . no idea of fault finding, but rather as a businesslike method, the
following is offered for your consideration:
Resolved, that Section 37e be amended to read: "Such claims shall be
paid as provided in Section 30 hereof."
Resolved, that Section 37k be amended to read: "Such claims shall be
paid as provided in Section 30 hereof."
0

Respectfully submitted,
PAUL NATHAN,
MAX J. MERTENS,
ANDREW BURKE,
Ono G. FREYERMUTH,
PAUL R. BJICK,
RUSSELL 0. MAJORS,
ALTER P. SAMI,

w

Committee.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has examined, considered and approved the
resolutions of constituent Lodges, amending .By-Laws for increasing fees,
decreasing fees, increasing dues, decreasing dues, altering or eliminating affiliation fees and changing time of stated meetings to except holidays as stated
meeting nights.
These resolutions have all been approved by the Grand· Master, and we
recommend their approval by Grand Lodge.
Eighteen Lodges amended their By-Laws as to fees, and as a result thereof
nine.. fixecf'the same at $75.00, one at $105.00, one at $60.00, and seven at $50.00.
Two changed their annual dues to $12.00 and one to $15.00.
A review of all the amendments shows attention on the part of the Lodge
officers to Grand Lodge legislation . and the financial budget of the constituent
Lodge. All amendments were well wor:ied.
We move the adoption of this report approving said amendments.
OAKLEY K. MORTON,
WILLIAM A . SHERWIN,
LISTENW ALTER,
JULIUS GABRIEL,
THOS.
WHITE,
C. BINDER,

c. E.

Enw.

E.

Committee.

Adopted.

473

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California: .
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry. begs leave to report as follows:
Clandestine activity among the pseudo-Masonic Lodges of California has
been confined to the irregular and spasmodic functioning of their subordinate
bodies during the past year. In ~eneral they have maintained their several
existences as set forth in our report at the last communication of Grand
Lodge. Some of the irregular bodies, though, have shown some real activity,
probably due to racial rather than purely Masonic stimuli. For instance, N egro
bodies: Brother Roullard of · our committee ceports that the N egro Hiram of
Tyre Grand Lodge, which was split wide open in 1935, carrying their differences into the courts revived sufficiently to hold its 27th general communication
in Fresno from June 20-23, 1937, when one L. P. Lea of Los Angeles was
elected Grand Master. The local F resno Lodge is named Raisin City No. 5, of
which Joe Farley is Master. It seems that the members of the Negro Eastern
Star Grand Chapter meet together with the masculine Masons. There is very
definite antagonism of this group toward the Prince Hall bodies and Masons.
The other Negro Grand Lodge which was known as Most Worshipful Sov~
ereign Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons has changed its name to
"Most Worshipful Prince Hall Grand Lodge of Free and ·Accepted Masons of
California Jurisdiction." The annual Communication of 1936 re-elected T heodore Moss as Grand Master. Their bodies were to hold their 1937 communication in Portland, July 19.
Mexican Masonry
There is little change in the organizations of the Mexican Masonic groups
in the state. The two factions-to-wit, Benemerito Rito Nacional and the
original Rito Nacional which resulted from a refusal of the Grand Master
Ramirez in Mexico City to divide his authority with consulting ' groups-have
maintained their individual Lodges. •rhe efforts. of the Mexican Grahd Lodge
of Texas through its deputy Mateo F. F lores to wean away the local Lodges.
of the older Rite does not seem to have been successful. Very few have· deserted
the original Rito Nacional or the Benemerito Rito.
··
Filipino Masonry
There has been much activity both social and fraternal of the organlze~s of·
Filipino Masonry during the past year. In several cities of California invitations'
to public installation of officers ceremonies", public dances and social functions···
have been widely distributed.
The Caballeros de Dimas-Alang held a public installation of the officers ~f
General Luna Lodge No. 8, on March 27, 1937, in Music A rts H all, 233 South
Broadway in Los Angeles, and it was a well attended (by Filipinos ) function.
On January 26, 1937, Wor. Mactan Lodg'e No. 32 of the Gran Oriente
Filipino held a great banquet and social night at California Hotel in El Centro
and our Grand Master seems to have been handed an invitation though after the
festive event.
Brother John: Alpers of our Committee reports the following Lodg'es in
San F rancisco: Sinukuan Lodge No. 6, 106 South Park, San Frandsco; .M11ster
Gaudencio Y. Aguirre; Rizal Lodge No. 12, 106 South Park, San ·Fram:lsco;
Master Felipe Rosero ; Biacnabato Lodge No. 14, 106 South P ark, San Francisco,
Master Juan Benedicto; also Mayon Lodge No. 19, P. 0 . Box 914 Stockton,

475

PROCEE!>INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Master Anastacio Asuncion; Zamora Lodge No. 26, 157-9th Avenue, Seattle,
Master Estanislao Macate ; Manila Lodge No. 28, 817-25th Street, Sacramento,
Demetrio Faulve Master; Lopez Jaena Lodge No. 31, 604 P. 0. Box, Guadalupe,
Master Melanio F. Moreno; and Mactan Lodge No. 32 in El Centro.
.The work of this committee has indirectly resulted in the publicizing the existence and activities of the Clandestine bodies. Our members have been made
aware of the identity and locations of their bodies and so have frequently apprised the victims of the irregular character o f their rites. This has caused
many of the individual members of these clandestine bodies and some of the
responsible officers and representatives to seek for their organizations affiliation
with our Grand Lodge or recognition by our Grand Lodge. Many Mexican members of the Rito Nacional have sought ways and means by which they could be
affiliated with or join some regular Masonic Lodge or even to have their Lodges
taken in bodily by our Grand Lddge. Especially an effort was made by the
Deputy Grand Master of a Filipino Grand Lodge called Sov. Grand Lodge of
the Filipino Archipellago-operative in Califomia and not recognized by the
regular Grand Lodge· of the Philippine Islands which we recognize-to obtain
recognition for his body and his Lodges. He wrote a letter to our Grand
Secretary which was referred to your committee for investigation and report.
We contacted this individual and informed him that he had no Masonic standing
in California, that neither he nor his members could be admitted as visitors or
affiliates in our Lodges, that his organization had neither fraternal nor legal
Masonic standing in California and that it could probably be enjoined from using
the Masonic name under Chapter 409 of the Statutes of California of 1933. The
exclusive and sovereign character of our statewide jurisdiction was explained
to him and that he could receive no recognition from any American or English
Grand Lodge. He informed the Chairman of this committee that this Grand
Lodge of the Filipino Archipellago was chartered in 1916 by the Grand Orient
of Spain and in 1925 was released by that Sovereign Grand Body and was
formed into a Grand Lodge with a rite of 33 degrees modeled after the Scottish
Rite but conferring only up to the 18th degree in California.
Again on June 7, 1937, a letter was written to our Grand Master by one
Roque de la Isla, Grand Delegate of Suprei;ne Fraternal Council of the Legionarios del Trabajo in America, Inc. as follows :

This was . referred to the chairman of this committee for investigation and
report. An interview with De La Y sla was had and the objects, _pur~oses and
general information concerning their rite and orgattlzation w~s m~u1;ed Into.
It developed that the rite is Masonic of 33 degrees and that their prmc1ples and
objects are as announced by the Supreme General Assembly of the Order on
February 7, 1932, of which we quote only the first three :

474

The Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Masons,
Masonic Temple, San Francisco, California,
Honorable Sir :
Through the courtesy of the Secretary of the West Gate Masonic Temple
of this City, we consider this a gr~t privilege and an honor to communicate
with your office, relative to our· desire to hold a conference with your most
exalted body for the purpose of establishing a mutual understanding between
the Masons and this fraternal order known as the Legionarios de! Trabajo in
America; which is functioning under the Supreme Consistory in Manila since
1916.
The Supreme Head and founder of this Order is expected to arrive in the
very near future from the Philippines, and one of his missions is to confer with
all fraternal organizations established all over the world, for better understanding and friendship, particularly between citizens of the Philippines and those
of the United States.
We thank you for any courtesy that you may extend in the matter, and we
assure you that the same will be very much appreciated, and treated as strictly
confidential.
Yours very fraternally,
RoQUE E. DE LA YsLA, Grand Delegatt.

I.
The Association "LEGIONARIOS DEL TRABAJO" is firmly convinced
that the Philippine Islands is capable to manage her own future. Cons~que~tly,
said association shall work for the national independence of the Ph1hppmes,
through peaceful and legal means.
II.
The association believes that, in order that the independence would be beneficial for the laboring class-which constitutes the grea~ maio;i~y of the popul~­
tion of this country-it is necessary to work for the social, poht1cal and economic
emancipation of the said class, through the use of the means allowed by the
existing laws.
III.
This association shall further work for the implantation in this country
of social justice. The equality of all before the law ; the abolition of any kind
of privileges and discriminations and the democratizing of politics and industry,
all of which demands for social justice.
All this information was submitted to our Grand Master and he approved
a reply as follows:
July 13, 1937
Mr. Roque de la Ysla
605 I. I. Philips Building
Los Angeles, California
Dear Sir :
Your letter of June 7, 1937, addressed to the Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Masons was handed to him and your request, orally stated to me
at my conference with you, was represented to him fully and he authorized me
to reply to your letter as follows ;
In your letter you asked for a "conference for the purpose of establishing
a mutual understanding between the Masons" and your fraternal order known
as Legionarios de! Trabajo in America functioning under the Supreme Con,
sistory in Manila, Philippine Islands. In the oral interview which I had w!th
you, you stated that your order consisted of 33 degrees based upon the Scottish
Rite system and some degrees comprising symbolic craft degrees. according ~o
the Grand Orient of France. If this is true, your order is clandestinely Masonic
and neither mutual understanding nor fraternal intercourse can be had between
the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California and
your organization.
The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California
was established and is functioning in accordance with the principle of exclusive
jurisdiction recognized by all of the Grand Lodges of the United States, that
not more than one Grand Lodge of Masons can have recognition and reiUlar
standing in any one state, and in view of the fact that our Grand Lodge has
the exclusive jurisdiction in the State of California your organization can receive no recognition whatsoever here and and must be considered irregular and
clandestine.
Other substantial reasons exist growing out of your political, economic and
labor objectives which prevent the Grand Lodge of Free and Aceaptod Masone

476

PROCEED!NGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of California from granting you recognition or forming the basis for a mutual
understanding between us. Yau must be aware that the Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of California has neither political, economic
nor labor objectives.
The writer desires personally to thank you for your courtesy in calling upon
him and frankly stating the nature of your organization and its objectives.
I remain.
Very truly yours,

sacrifices, to find that adversity has destroyed his means of the past, and, rather
than feel humiliated thereby, he permits himself to be dropped and totally
forgotten.
The detail report of Lodges follows :

WILLIAM ScHREIDER.

A communication from Acacia Lodge of Santa .Barbara-formerly affiliated
with the Rita Nacional, but now left out on a limb by the -schism in that Ritewanted to be taken into our Grand Lodge. They had previously applied to the
Grand Lodge Vallee de.Mexico, but were told by that Mexican Grand Lodge
that it did not wish to invade the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California
. and so could not help them.
We _h ave set these matters out so fully to ;;1pprise the Grand Lodge of the
effectiveness of the work of this committee. We believe that the attendant publicity will bring the membership of these irregular organizations to a recognition
of their lack of Masonic standing and so gradually disintegrate these Lodges and
~rand Lodges.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM A. ScHREIDER,
}OHN ALPERS,
.
FRED P. RouLLARD,
FRED B. HACK,
0RLA A. PRATT.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M:·. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns presents herewith its annual repprt.
· We again r.egretfully report a net. loss in membership, being only 424 as
cqmpared with. 39.42 in 1933, 4363 ,in 1934, 3005 in 193S and 1S98 in 1936, last
year. We l;i.aye at last reached ti:ie bottom of membership curve. From now. on
}Ve should begin to grow again. Our net membership as of July 31, 1937, was
127,304. .During the past six years of depression we have had a net loss of
lS,1.16 members. During this p_eriod we raised )S,421 members and suffered losses
by dea_th of 11,928, by withdrawal 6,S29, and by suspension for non-payment of
dues 20,280.
During this 'period dues were remitted to 3S,870 members. A substantial
reduction in the loss by suspension for non-payment of dues would have changed
.from a loss to a gain in net membership. Our losses by death are increasing
slowly, gaining only an average pf 17 per year.
During the past five years the number of candidates raised each year has
steadily increased from 1997 .in 1933 to 3380 in 1937.
It would seem to your committee that greater personal care should be
exercised in saving members froni suspension by non-payment of dues by remitting · tlie dues of many good men and Masons who are temporarily unable
to carry on, who later may become an asset to the Lodge.
It is a Masonic tragedy to miss the attendance of a member who has done
so much to enhance our fraternity by his presence, by his work and by .his

Name or Lodge

1 California.................. .
2 Western Star.............
3 Tehama................c••••••
5 Benicia........................
8 Tuolumne...................
9 Corinthian...................
10 San Jo$e.......:..............
12 Y<iunt..:...•....-····-······'·
13 Nevada........................
14 Temple.....~···-·-······-16 Eureka........................
17 La Parfaite Union ....
18 Mountain Shade........
19 San ] oaquin.................
20 W ashi.~gton ...•:...........
21 Hawauan....................
22 Occidental.................23 Madison................•.....
24 Mariposa.....................
<:S Georgetown................
26 El Dorado..................
27 Trinity.........................
30 Golden Gate................
32 Gold Hill.....................
33 Ophir...........................
3S San Diego...................
37 Howard:.....................
38 Santa Cruz.................
40 Sacramento................
41 Martinez.....................
42 Los Angeles ..........,.....
43 Hiram..........................
44 Mount Moriah...........
4S Crescent City............,
46 Texas.:.........................
SO Forbestown................
Sl Illinoistown ................
SS Suisun..........................
S6 Volcano.......................
S7 Santa Rosa,.................
S8 Union...........................
S9 Gravel R ange.............
60 .Plumas·············-····-·-·
61 Live Oak.....................
64 Natoma.......................
6S Amador.......................
66 Forest..............•...........
68 Morning Star.............
70 Enterprise...................

General

477

Home
Maintenance

Home

$25.00

Fund

Building

Home Tax

Total

$289.00
51.00
2S9.00
74.00
107.00
14S.OO
2S6.SO
166.SO
73.50
SS.00
108.SO
77.SO
31.00
312.SO
301.50
189.00
422.00
128.00
96.SO
34.SO
113.00
62.SO
3S7.00
S6.00
22.SO
313.SO
103.00
169.00
300.SO
110.SO
368.SO
3S.OO
221.00
92.00
20.SO
36.00
42.00
71.00
27.SO
209.00
290.00
17.00
60.00
494.SO
74.SO
40.00
27.SO
229.00
125.SO

$420.00
76.SO
328.SO
106.SO
147.00
201.00
320.2S
191.2S
101.2S
78.00
143.2S
108.7S
30.00
419.2S
383.2S
246.00
S74.SO
133.SO
117.7S
38.2S
124.SO
66.7S
489.00
7S.OO
29.2S
399.7S
138.00
22S.OO
390.7S
15S.2S
S04.7S
33.00
312.00
lOS.00
30.7S
42.00
Sl.00
97.50
24.7S
264.00
38S.SO
2S.SO
72.00
684.7S
87.7S
Sl.00
3S.2S
294.00
16S.7S

$280.00
Sl.00
219.00
71.00
98.00
134.00
213.SO
127.SO
67.SO
S2.00
95.SO
72.SO
20.00
279.SO
2SS.SO
164.00
383.00
89.00
78.SO
2S.SO
83.00
44.SO
326.00
S0.00
19.SO
266.SO
92.00
lS0.00
260.SO
103.SO
336.SO
22.00
208.00
70.00
20.SO
28.00
34.00
6S.OO
16.50
176.00
2S7.00
17.00
48.00
4S6.SO
S8.SO
34.00
23.SO
196.00
110.50

$ 75.00

$1,064.00
178.SO
1,206.SO
276.SO
427.00
630.00
1,190.2S
83S.2S
292.2S
210.00
422.25
333.7S
1S6.00
l,311.2S
1,41S.2S
849.00
1,679.SO
700.SO
392.7S
173.2S
S4S.SO
323.7S
1,422.00
231.00
96.2S
l,4S4.7S
408.00
794.00
1,301.7S
469.25
1,S34.7S
190.00
841.00
417.00
71.7S
1S6.00
202.00
283.SO
143.75
949.00
1,2S7.SO
S9.SO
330.00
1,910.7S
370.7S
17S.OO
lll.2S
1,019.00
SS1.7S

400.00
2S.OO
7S.OO
l S0.00
400.00
3SO.OO
50.00
2S.Oo
7S.OO
7S.OO
7S.OO
300.00
47S.OO
2SO.OO
300.00
3SO.OO
100.00
7S.OO
22S.OO
lS0.00
2SO.OO
S0.00
2S.OO
47S.OO
7S.OO
2SO.OO
3SO.OO
100.00
32S.OO
100.00
100.00
lS0.00
S0.00
7S.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
300.00
32S.OO
l S0.00
27S.OO
lS0.00

so.oo·

2S.OO
300.00
lS0.00

Name of Lodge

76 Bear Mountain__________ .
Calaveras ....................
Humboldt... .....:...... ~--80 Ione.............·--·-··-···-·
81 Yolo ...•.·- ····--········:.:..
84 Vesper···-·········-··-···---·
87 Naval.. ......................•..
89 Rose's Bar ...................
91 North Star ..................
93 St. Helena,... ·-·-·······-·95 Henry Clay.................
98 Hornitos......................
99 Yosemite... -·•··············
101 Clay·····-· .. ·······-····--··-·
103 Oroville.......................
104 Lexington,..................
106 Arcata. ......... ·-···-·········
110 Paj aro.........................
111 Chico........................, ...
112 Summit.. ......................
113 ·Eden ...........................117 Concord .......................
120 Fidelity ....•................. _
122 Alamo..........---··-·····-···
123 Sotoyome ....................
124 Table Mountain.........
126 Lafayette.....................
127 Hermann.....................
128 Visalia......................-.
129 Nicolaus .......... -.:........
131 Woodbridge................
132 Sincerity......................
134 Vaca ville.....................
135 Valley..........................
136 Pacific ........................ 139 Crockett.......... ·-·····-·-·
140 Curtis .. ----···-··········-····
141 Grafton ........................
143 Franklin......................
144 Oriental. ......................
145 Vitruvius.....................
146 Abell .................-.........
147 Eel River .....................
149 Lassen ..........................
150 Molino.........................
156 Woodland..................•
161 Keystone ................. -..
164 Harmony.....................
166 Excelsior .....................
167 Alameda ......................
168 Redwood City........... 169 Mis-sion.....................c••
173 Elk Grove....................
174 Drytown......•.....•.........
78

79

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

478

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

42.50
48.00
194.00
40.50
28.00
100.00
392.00
18.00
32.50
40.00
31.00
53.50
144.50
42.00
133.00
94.50
94.dO
135.00
176.50
26.00
103.00
126.50
284.50
69.00
74.00
49.50
96.00
109.00
166.00
54.00
59.00
53.00
82.50
36.50
332.00
320.50
38.50
42.00
66.00
235.00
51.00
94.50
101.00
86.50
64.50
131.50
12.50
7.00
287.00
71.50
153.50
376.00
54.50
16.00

54.75
63.00
259.50
51.75
42.00
118.50
450.00
27.00
36.75
57.00
39.00
63.75
173.25
46.50
177.00
123.75
135.00
175.50
233.25
30.00
150.00
171.75
405.75
91.50
111.00
63.75
130.50
154.50
220.50
63.00
76.50
70.50
111.75
50.25
472.50
464.25
48.75
48.00
69.00
319.50
67.50
117.75
129.00
120.75
87.75
179.25
18.75
10.50
372.00
95.25
194.25
523.50
74.25
21.00

36.50
42.00
173.00
34.50
28.00
79.00
300.00
18.00
24.50
38.00
26.00
42.50
115.50
31.00
118.00
82.50
90.00
117.00
155.50
20.00
100.00
114.50
270.50
. 61.00
74.00
42.50
87.00
103.00
147:00
42.00
51.00
47.00
74.50
33.50
315.00
309.50
32.50
32.00
46.00
213.00
45.00
78.50

50.00
50.00
150.00
75.00

86.oo

80.50
58.50
119.50
12.50
7.00
248.00
63.50
129.50
349.00
49.50
14.00

175.00
725.00
50.00
25.00
50.00
75.00
300.00
100.00
125.00
f00.00
50.00
150.00
225.00
75.00
25.00
100.00
125.00
50.00
75.00
75.00
25.00
250.00
75.00
75.00
50.00
100.00
50.00
125.00
100.00
50.00
50.00
175.00
250.00
50.00
150.00
125.00
50.00
50.00
100.00
275.00
75.00
225.00
200.00
50.00

Total

183.75
203.00
776.50
201.75
98.00
427.50
1,867.00
63.00
143.75
160.00
146.00
234.75
733.25
219.50
553.00
400.75
369.00
577.50
790.25
151.00
378.00
512.75
1,085.75
271 .50
259.00
230.75
388.50
391.50
783.50
234.00
261.50
220.50
368.75
170.25
1,244.50
1,194.25
169.75
172.00
356.00
1,017.50
213.50
440.75
441.00
337.75
260.75
530.25
43.75
24.50
1,182.00
305.25
702.25
1,448.50
228.25
51.00

Name of Lodge

175 Antioch........•...............
178 Phoenix........................
179 Mendocit\.o......... :........
180 Petaluma.....................
181 Russian River .............
182 Arbuckle......................
183 Clear Lake..................
184 Sierra Valley..............
185 Claiborne .....................
186 Evening Star ..............
187 Keith .........•.•................
188 Oakland .......................
190 Northern Light.. .......
191 Marin ..........•................
192 Santa Barbata............
193 Ferndale.......•..............
194 Mt. View.....................
195 Buckeye...... .-................
196 San Simeon.................
198 Wilmington................
199 Hartley ........................
200 Truckee.......................
201 Silveyville...................
202 Pentalpha....................
203 Co~fidence ... ,;-············
204 Sal mas .........................
205 Olivet ........ .,..................
206 Stanislaus ....................
207 Anaheim ......................
208 Rio Vista. ....................
209 King Davids ............-.
210 Friendship...................
211 San Benito..................
212 So. San Francisco......
214 San Buenaventura ....
215 Oak GrC>Ve........ ·-·······
216 Doric:........................:...
217 Monterey.....................
218 Mosaic.........................
219 Speranza Italiana......
220 Downey........ _ ..:.........
221 Inyo.......·-···-·····-········
222 Roseville ............- ........
224 Bakers.fitld. .................
225 Brooklyn.....................
226 San Mateo ...................
228 Athens .........................
229 Solano.............. ,...........
230 North Butte....·-··--·-···
231 Covelo..........................
232 Janesville....................
233 Calistoga. ....................
234 !:lope.....•....- ................
235 Surprise Valley....... :..

479

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

70.50
258.00
61.50
145.50
54.00
39.50
22.50
19.50
29.00
21.00
83.00
447.50
41.00
238.00
120.00
67.50
94.50
53.50
49.50
160.50
76.50
61.00
75.00
309.50
16.00
154.50
55.00
199.00
141.50
59.00
187.00
304.00
75.00
130.00
143.50
284.50
282.50
83.00
71.00
195.50
110.50
43.00
169.50
235.50
296.50
117.00
62.00
258.00
81.50
26.00
44.00
38.50
35.00
29.00

99.75
318.00
87.75
198.75
76.50
51.75
29.25
27.75
39.00
31.50
109.50
590.25
54.00
322.50
157.50
96.75
134.25
75.75
69.75
204.75
114.75
78.00
99.00
425:25
19.50
200.25
75.00
244.50
192.75
69.00
223.50
388.50
99.00
183.00
180.75
402.75
366.75
100.50
93.00
273.75
134.25
51.00
194.25
308.25
414.75
165.00
79.50
307.50
81.75
33.00
52.50
48.75
49.50
43.50

66.50
212.00
58.50
132.50
51.00
34.50
19.50
18.50
26.00
21.00
73.00
393.50
36.00
215.00
105.00
64.50
89.50
50.50
46.50
136.50
76.50
52.00
66.00
283.50
13.00
133.50
50.00
163.00
128.50
46.00
149.00
259,00
66.00
122.00
120.50
268.50
244.50
67.00
62.00
182.50
89.50
34.00
129.50
205.50
276.50
110.00
53.00
205.00
54.50
22.00
35.00
32.50
33.00
29.00

50.00
425.00
25.00
100.00
25.00
50.00
25.00
25.00
100.00
425.00
100.00
175.00
100.00
25.00
75.00
25.00
25.00
200.00
25.00
75.00
50.00
250.00
25.00
350.00
25.00
325.00
175.00
100.00
350.00
375.00
100.00
125.00
250.00
125.00
300.00
175.00
100.00
125.00
175.00
100.00
350.00
250.00
125.00
75.00
100.00
475.00
175.00
50.00
75.00
50.00

Total

286.75
1,213.00
232.75
576.75
206.50
175.75
96.25
65.75
119.00
73.50
365.50
1,856.25
231.00
950.50
482.50
253.75
393.25
204.75
190.75
701.75
292.75
266.00
290.00
1,268.25
73.50
838.25
205.00
931.50
637.75
274.00
909.50
1,326.50
340.00
560.00
694.75
1,080.75
1,193.75
425.50
326.00
776.75
509.25
228.00
843.25
999.25
1,112.75
467.00
294.50
1,245.50
392.75
131.00
206.50
169.75
117.50
101.50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

480
Name or Lodge

236 Hills Ferry_...............
237 Guadalupe...................
240 Colusa...........................
241 Santa Ana...................
242 Magnolia..............._....
243 Eucalyptus ..................
244 Alcatraz......................
245 Laurel.. ........................
246 Pomona.......................
247 Fresno ........................ _
248 Alturas.................... __
250 Adin.............................
253 Landmark ...................
254 Reading.......................
255 Welcome ...........,.........
256 Lodi.. •...........................
258 Penrhyn..................:...
259 Evergreen.:........- .......
260 King Solomons ..........
261 Tuscan.........................
262 Lompoc...... :.................
264 . Hesperian....................
265 Orland.. ······-·············
266 North East ..................
267 Galt.....,....................._.
268 Durant......... :...............
269 Olive Branch..............
271 Snow Mountain .........
272 Pasadena .....................
273 Anchor ......................._
274 Arroyo ...................._
275 Oakdale.......................
277 Selma.......·-·············-··
278 So. California.............
279 Hanford ............~ .........
280 Madera .......................:
281 Mount Shasta....·-······
282 Callayomi ....................
283 South West.................
285 San Miguel... ...........,. ..
286 Paso Robles ................
287 Winnedumah..............
288 Maxwell ......................
289 Elsinore.......................
290 East Gate.....................
291 Santa Paula................
292 Los Gatos....................
293 Orange Grove ............
294 Traver.......................:.
295 Mt. Jackson................
296 Silver Gate..................
297 Dunsmuir....................
299 Liberty.........................
300 Redlands ......................

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

52.00
31.50
86.00
228.50
128.50
134.00
257.00
89.00
177.50
289.50
77.50
38.00
55.50
95.00
67.00
147.00
57.00
270.00
343.50
47.50
71.00
121.50
59.50
24.50
33.50
309.50
112.00
22.00
242.50
136.00
45.50
60.00
77.50
287.00
75.50
93.00
40.50
34.00
100.00
28.50
59.50
63.50
33.50
59.00
424.50
149.00
114.50
97.00
43.00
65.50
330.00
113.00
126.50
183.00

67.50
42.75
112.50
312.75
162.75
159.00
361.50
108.00
222.75
386.25
104.25
42.00
68.25
124.50
78.00
202.50
76.50
349.50
498.75
65.25
87.00
156.75
83.25
36.75
45.75
434.25
130.50
27.00
350.25
177.00
57.75
84.00
111.75
385.50
98.25
117.00
38.25
43.50
117.00
42.75
81.75
78.75
38.25
70.50
561.75
192.00
138.75
132.00
64.50
87.75
409.50
147.00
167.25
250.50

45.00
28.50
75.00
208.50
108.50
106.00
241.00
72.00
148.50
257.50
69.50
28.00
45 .50
83.00
52.00
135.00
51.00
233.00
332.50
43.50
58.00
104.50
55.50
24.50
30.50
289.50
87.00
18.00
233.50
118.00
38.50
56.00
74.50
257.00
65.50
78.00
25.50
29.00
78.00
28.50
54.50
52.50
25.50
47.00
374.50
128.00
92.50
88.00
43.00
58.50
273.00
98.00
111.50
167.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00

Home Tax

Total

75.00
25.00
125.00
175.00
150.00
200.00
125.00
175.00
350.00
350.00
75.00
75.00
50.00
100.00
150.00
125.00
50.00
475.00
100.00
25.00
100.00
175.00
25.00

239.50
127.75
398.50
924.75
549.75
599.00
984.50
444.00
898.75
1,283.25
326.25
183.00
219.25
402.50
347.00
609.50
234.50
1,327.50
1,274.75
181.25
316.00
557.75
223.25
85.75
109.75
1,15825
629.50
92.00
901.25
631.00
216.75
250.00
313.75
1,179.50
339.25
413.00
229.25
131.50
520.00
99.75
245.75
294.75
147.25
276.50
1,735.75
719.00
570.75
442.00·
150.50
261.75
1,587.50
433.00
. 505.25
775.50

125.00
300.00
25.00
75.00
200.00
75.00
50.00
50.00
250.00
100.00
125.00
125.00
25.00
225.00
50.00
100.00
50.00
100.00
375.00
250.00
225.00
125.00
50.00
575.00
75.00
100.00
175.00

Name or Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

301 Ontario.... ~..................
137.00
159.00
106.00
302 Santa Lucia....._.........
59.00
73.50
49.00
303 Porterville..................
171.50
209.25
139.50
304 Reedley .......... ·-···········
63.50
95.25
63.50
305 Azusa ......... ;.................
92.50
123.75
82.50
306 Ashlar ..........................
86.50
114.75
76.50
307 Santa Monica ........... _
140.50
182.25
121.50
308 Monrovia.....................
120.50
165.75
110.50
309 Delano.....:.............;.....
92.00
118.50
79.00
310 Sisson..........................
41.00
' 48.00
32.00
312 Los Banos...................
89.50
98.25
65.50
313 Tehachapi ................... .
85.50
113.25
75.50
314 Temescal..........._........
71.00
94.50
63.00
315 Norwalk......................
68.50
83.25
55.50
316 Sanger.. ,......................
98.50
111.75
74.50
317 Fallbtook....................
26.00
39.00
26.00
318 Emmanuel ...................
37.00
54.00
36.00
319 Hollenbeck................646.50
855.75
570.50
320 South Gate....- ............
348.00
466.50
311.00
321 Alisal.......................-..
52.00
75.00
50.00
322 Alhambra....................
194.00
274.50
183.00
323 Whittier......................
253.50
321.75
214.50
324 Corona.. ....•....._............
241.00
348.00
232.00
325 Consuelo:.....................
78.00
103.50
69.00
326 Needles........................
127.00
151.50
101.00
327 Long Beach........·.-······
270.50
383.25
255.50
328 · Redondo ......................
103.00
145.50
97.00
329 Vallee de Ftance........
72.50
89.25
59.50
330 Kilauea........................
100.50
143.25
95.50
331 Pacific Grove..............
97.50
113.25
75.50
332 San Pedro...........-......
239.50
342.75
228.50
333 Alta.....•....,...................
65.00
45.00
30.00
334 Covina........................_
115.50
156.75
104.50
335 West Gate...................
425.50
564.75
376.50
336 Fruitvale.....................
427.50
537.75
358.50
337 Carquinez.; .............. _.
91.50
108.75
72.50
338 San Jacinto .................
42.50
60.75
40.50
339 Fullerton.....................
213.00
265.50
177.00
341 Oxnard.....:.............. :.:.
132.50 ' 162.75
108.50
343 San Fernando.............
148.00
177.00
118.00
344 Starr King........... _.....
286.00
406.50
271.00
345 Brentwood ..................
42.50
60.75
40.50
346 Palo Alto.....................
239.00
324.00
216.00
347 McKinley....................
154.00
210.00
140.00
348 San Bernardino..........
251.50
329.25
219.50
349 Sequoia........;•..............
486.50
644.25
429.50
351 Palestine......................
289.50
390.75
260.50
352 Sunset..........................
216.00
300.00
200.00
353 Pinole..........................
68.50
89.25
59.50
354 Presidio.................... _
305.00
405.00
270.00
355 Hollywood..................
490.50
638.25
425.50
356 Mill Valley.................
163.50
219.75
146.50
357 Buena Park.................
57.50
81.75
54.50
358 Golden State....·-········
422.50
591.75
394.50

481
$25.00

Home Tax

Total

300.00
75.00
300.00
25.00
150.00
100.00
175.00
150.00
125.00
75.00
200.00
75.00
150.00
125.00
250.00

702.00
256.50
820.25
247.25
448.75
377.75
619.25
546.75
414.50
196.00
453.25
349.25
378.50
332.25
534.75
91.00
127.00
2,772.75
1,450.50
177.00
801.50
1,214.75
921.00
400.50
504.50
1,109.25
395.50
271.25
414.25
486.25
910.75

700.00
325.00
150.00
425.00
100.00
150.00
125.00
200.00
50.00
50.00
75.00
200.00
100.00
300.00
75.00
425.00
525.00
200.00
25.00
300.00
275.00
250.00
150.00
200.00
125.00
350.00
525.00
275.00
150.00
75.00
350.00
525.00
150.00
25.00
275.00

440.o<i

451.75
1,791.75
1,848.75
472.75
168.75
955.50
678.75
693.00
1,113.50
143.75
979.00
629.00
1,150.25
2,085.25
1,215.75
866.00
292.25
1,330.00
2,079.25
679.75
218.75
1,683.75

483

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

482
Name of Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00

Home Tax

Name of Lodge

Total

149.00
25.00
34.00
51.00
39.00
704.25
359 Loyalton......................
100.00
169.50
254.25
180.50
243.50
360 San Francisco.........:.•
75.00
45.00
67.50
56.00
236.25
361 Fort Bragg...·-··········50.00
51.50
77.25
57.50
1,128.75
362 Charity........-·-··=--··275.00
236.50
354.75
262.50
307.75
363 Berkeley......................
75.00
64.50
96.75
71.50
1,469.50
365 Willits..........................
375.00
301.00
451.50
342.00
1,082.75
366 Las Palmas .................
225.00
238.50
357.75
261.50
961.75
367 South Pasadena.........
275.00
188.50
282.75
215.50
926.00 ·
368 Unity.............................
350.00
154.00
231.00
191.00
1,168.50
369 Ocean Parle................
325.00
233.00
349.50
261.00
370 Amity..........·-·············
787.75
371 Le Progres de
175.00
168.50
252.75
191.50
l'Oceanie ..................
380.00
125.00
70.00
105.00
80.00
475.75
372 Gardena .......................
150.00
88.50
132.75
104.50
283.00
373 Veteran........................
50.00
66.00
99.00
68.00
374 Jewel...·-··········-····-···
1,371.00
350.00
282.00
423.00
316.00
505.75
375 Richmond ....................
175.00
88.50
132.75
109.50
141.75
376 Francis Drake............
40.50
60.75
40.50
776.25
377 Artesia ...............·-····'"
125.00
181.50
272.25
197.50
342.00
378 Mizpah.........................
75.00
74.00
82.00 .
111.00
564.50
379 Fillmore......................
150.00
115.00
172.50
127.00
262.50
380 Huntington Beach .....
50.00
59.00
88.50
65.00
859.00
381 Oceanside ..........·-·······
100.00
214.00
321.00
224.00
194.25
382 Highland Park. ..........
50.00
39.50
59.25
45.50
605.75
383 Orosi ..·-·····-···········-···
200.00
110.50
165.75
129.50
462.50
384 El Centro....................
150.00
85.00
127.50
100.00
632.75
385 Dinuba...................... _.
150.00
130.50
195.75
156.50
387 Coalinga......................
1,400.50
275.00
313.00
469.50
343.00
1,064.75
388 Parnassus....................
275.00
220.50
330.75
238.50
183.50
389 Palos Verdes ..............
75.00
29.00
43.50
36.00
143.25
390 Imperial .. -·············-···
25.00
31.50
47.25
39.50
2,276.75
391 East Belt... ·-··········-···
525.00
484.50
726.75
540.50
1,112.50
392 West Lake ...·-············
225.00
245.00
367.50
275.00
1,182.00
393 Balder ..........................
275.00
252.00
378.00
277.00
470.50
394 University................175.00
79.00
118.50
98.00
742.00
395 Turlock...... _...............
100.00
180.00
270.00
192.00
396 Apollo ..........................
1,627.00
700.00
244.00
366.00
317.00
799.50
397 Rising Light:···-····--·
150.00
183.00
274.50 .
192.QO
Fraternity
•............
·-···
948.00
399
250.00
192.00
288.00
218.00
797.25
400 .Burlingame.................
200.00
163.50
245.25
188.50
353.75
401 Bay View....................
125.00
62.50
93.75
72.50
402 Brawley....•·-··········::...
1,128.25
375.00
203.50
305.25
244.50
221.75
403 Y erba Buena. .............
50.00
48.50
72.75
so.so
1,399.50
404 Glendora....--·········-···
300.00
305.00
457.50
337.00
731.75
405 Moneta........ ---·······300.00
114.50
171.75
145.50
658.00
406 Burbank ...................-.
400.00
62.00
93.00
103.00
146.75
407 La Mesa ... ·-················
25.00
34.50
51.75
35.50
605.75
408 Sierra Madre....•........
200.00
110.50
165.75
129.50
827.00
409 Honolulu ....•...........- ..
196.00 . 125.00
294.00
212.00
187.25
410 Charter Rock. ...•........
50.00
37.50
56.25
43.50
343.75
411 Perris ..................... ·--·
100.00
66.50
99.75
77.50
133.00
412 Calexico..--·················
50.00
22.00
33.00
28.00
576.50
413 W aucoba.. ~········-········
75.00
141.00
211.50
149.00
414 Arlington..................•.

415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
. 424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465

Silver Trowel... ..........
Lindsay.. ~----·······: ........
Clovis~ .. - ......................
Elysian ....·-··················
Upland ....- ...................
Kerman-.....................
Ingl!!wood...................
Eagle Rock.................
York .. ,.. _-, .....................
Exet~·-···················
Holtv ·-···················
Midway.......................
Chino Valley...............
San Dimas ........:..........
Pittsburg...·-···············
McCloud......................
Alpha .....·-··•···-···········
Hammonton................
Maricopa .................- ..
Fairmount ...................
Claremont.................;.
Lancaster....................
Acacia.......•..................
Tyrian..•········-·············
Standard......................
Coronado .....................
Blackmer.....................
Schofield......................
Carpinteria .................
Wilshire......................
La Puente................- ..
Torrance... ·-···-·········
Mt. Diablo ...................
Park......•..•...................
VanNuys....................
Montebello ..................
San Pasqual................
Bethlehem...................
Crocker .......................
Golden W elit...............
Ramona .......................
Henry S. Orme ..........
Riverbank ....................
Mount Oso............ - ..Argonaut .....................
Paul Revere_ ..............
Morgan Hill... ............
Alta Vista...................
Center..........................
466 Libertas ..... _................
467 Culver City.................
468 Rockridge ........, ...........
469 Yorba Linda...............
470 " Lincoln.........................

General
Fund

162.50
77.50
138.50
234.50
77.00
28.00
154.00
146.00
107.00
86.50
48.00
196.50
29.50
55.00
79.50
55.50
212.50
41.50
80.00
277.00
55.00
68.00
37.00
55.00
158.00
104.00
J39.00
150.50
52.00
272.50
35.00
114.50
82.00
226.50
127.50
149.50
201.50
163.50
165.00
244.00
114.50
268.50
51.50
109.00
192.50
253.50
61.50
161.00
182.00
135.00
98.00
202.00
53.00
140.50

Home
Maintenance

213.75
105.75
162.75
312.75
105.00
37.50
208.50
175.50
121.50
111.75
66.00
263.25
41.25
76.50
102.75
80.25
293.25
48.75
111.00
382.50
72.00
82.50
46.50
73.50
222.00
123.00
379.50
153.75
54.00
372.75
46.50
144.75
114.00
326.25
179.25
165.75
260.25
230.25
193.50
343.50
137.25
345.75
56.25
138.00
254.25
372.75
69.75
207.00
243.00
178.50
130.50
261.00
70.50
203.25

Home
Building

142.50
70.50
108.50
208.50
70.00
25.00
139.00
117.00
81.00
74.50
44.00
175.50
27.50
51.00
68.50
53.50
195.50
32.50
74.00
255.00
48.00
55.00
31.00
49.00
148.00
82.00
253.00
102.50
36.00
248.50
31.00
96.50
76.00
217.50
119.50
110.50
173.50
153.50
129.00
229.00
91.50
230.50
37.50
92.00
169.50
248.50
46.50
138.00
162.00
119.00
87.00
174.00
47.00
135.50

$25.00

Home Tax

Total

225.00
75.00
250.00
250.00
50.00
25.00
175.00
250.00
150.00
100.00
50.00
250.00

743.75
328.75
659.75
1,005.75
302.00
115.50
676.50
688.50
459.50
372.75
208.00
885.25
98.25
232.50
375.75
214.25
826.25
197.75
340.00
1,164.50
250.00
330.50
164.50
252.50
603.00
584.00
1,821.50
856.75
292.00
1,193.75
162.50
530.75
322.00
870.25
476.25
775.75
885.25
647.25
787.50
991.50
543.25
1,194.75
245.25
514.00
766.25
974.75
352.75
706.00
737.00
607.50
415.50
837.00
220.50
529.25

50.00
125.00
25.00
125.00
75.00
75.00
250.00
75.00
125.00
50.00
75.00
75.00
275.00
850.00
450.00
150.00
300.00
50.00
175.00
50.00
100.00
50.00
350.00
250.00
100.00
300.00
175.00
200.00
350.00
100.00
175.00
150.00
100.00
175.00
200.00
150.00
175.00
100.00
200.00
50.00
50.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

484
Name of Lodge

471 Delta............................
472 Maui.•·········-·······-····
473 Blythe...,......................
474 Victory.-....•..............•_.
475 America.......................
476 Coachella....-...............
477 Temblor.......................
478 Thousand Oaks....._...
479 Golden Rule.: ..............
480 Fellowship..................
481 Mt. Davidson.............
482 Clarence F. Smith......
483 Bell................·-············
484 Albert Pike..........._....
485 Chowchilla..................
486 Caledonia.....................
487 Vallejo..........- .......•.....
488 Patterson.....................
489 East Bay......................
490 Corcoran.....................
491 Woodstock..................
492 Garvanza....·-··············
493 Atascadero..................
494 Acorn....................,......
495 Lebanon....,..........•.......
496 Riverdale.....................
497 Fremont.·--·················
498 Stocktf!n.......................
499 Capital City.................
500 Roosevelt .....................
501 Westwood...·-·····-······
502 Harbor.........................
503 Point.............................
504 Seaside.....................,...
505 Silver Cord.................
506 Mount Olive...............
507 El Segundo................
508 Joppa ............................
509 Benjamin Franklin....
510 Cupertino....................
511 Sunnyvale...................
.512 Palm,s ....-.....................
513 Cahuertga....................
514 Argonne....................,.
515 Vermont Square....- ..
516 Taft...................,..........
517 Mount Vernon...........
518 La Jolla.•.,•..•..........•....
519 Euclid.....:..............--.
520 Ionic........-·············-··521 Piedmont.....................
522 Sunrise.......................•
523 Bellflower ...................
524 Catalina Island...........

General
Fund

178.00
75.50
22.50
123.00
221.50
49.00
60.50
159.00
209.50
116.50
151.00
132.00
106.00
114.50
26.50
83.00
130.00
34.50
136.00
41.50
107.50
101.50
25.50
196.50
150.00
49.50
186.50
62.00
103.50
84.50
124.50
84.00
57.00
189.50
138.00
303.50
85.00
29.00
114.00
47.00
63.00
98.50
164.00
179.00
216.50
96.00
114.00
68.00
142.00
215.00
107.50
99.50
94.50
59.50

Home
Maintenance

213.00
92.25
24.75
166.50
249.75
58.50
86.25
223.50
263.25
141.75
213.00
181.50
133.50
149.25
39.75
105.00
168.00
47.25
187.50
53.25
123.75
129.75
38.25
237.75
216.00
39.75
204.75
85.50
126.75
111.75
146.25
108.00
69.00
209.25
172.50
359.25
118.50
37.50
139.50
60.00
82.50
125.25
213.00
246.00
258.75
120.00
156.00
91.50
162.00
226.50
149.25
113.25
113.25
77.25

Home
Bullding

142.00
61.50"
16.50
111.00
166.50
39.00
57.50
149.00
175.50
94.50
'142.00
121.00
89.00
99.50
26.50
.70.00
112.00
31.50
125.00
35.50
82.50
86.50
25.50
158.50
144.00
26.50
136.50
57.00
84.50
74.50
97.50
72.00
46.00
139.50
115.00
239.50
79.00
25.00
93.00
40.00
55.00
83.50
142.00
164.00
172.50
80.00
104.00
61.00
108.00
151.00
99.50
75.50
75.50
51.50

$25.00

Home Tax

Total

325.00
125.00
75.00
100.00
525.00
100.00
50.00
125.00
325.00
175.00
75.00
75.00
150.00
125.00

858.00
354.25
138.75
500.50
1,162.75
246.50
254.25
656.50
973.25
527.75
581.00
509.50
478.50
488.25
92.75
408.00
560.00
13825
523.50
205.25
538.75
467.75
114.25
967.75
585.00
315.75
927.75
229.50
564.75
345.75
618.25
389.00
247.00
988.25
675.50
1,577.25
332.50
141.50
546.50
197.00
300.50
457.25
744.00
714.00
1,047.75
471.00
449.00
295.50
662.00
1,217.50
406.25
588.25
408.25
238.25

150.00
150.00
25.00
75.00
75.00
225.00
150.00
25.00
375.00
75.00
200.00
400.00
25.00
250.00
75.00
250.00
125.00
75.00
450.00
250.00
675.00
50.00
50.00
200.00
50.00
100.00
150.00
225.00
125.00
400.00
175.00
75.00
75.00
250.00
625.00
50.00
300.00
125.00
50.00

525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
553
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577
578

Name of Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

George ·w ashington..
Bay City................._:..
Covenant.·-·················
Beverly l:Iills..............
Loyalty....-··--············
Sun Garden.................
Alexandria..................
Smyrna........................
Azurt!.....-..·-·········--···
Forest Hill...,....•......._
Alexander Hamilton.
Seal Rock. ...................
Utopia..........................
Ascot..:.•...•..·-··-·-·······
Belvedere....................
Queen Beach...............
H. M. Stephens....·-···
Lankershim.................
Signal.........·-··············
Glendale.......................
Jonathan......................
San Gabriel.................
Arcadia........................
Triangle......................
Justice...•............- ........
Seaport....._.,............._
Lakeshore...................
Semper Virens...........
Golden City.................
Educator......................
White Pine..........·-···Fairfax...·-··-···--·······Hermosa......................
Pt. Firmin...................
Craftsman..................:
Plymouth....................
E. San Diego..............
Pyramid......................
South Park.................
Foothill........................
West Adams...............
James A. Garfield......
Searchlight.................
Park Blvd.................._
Chateau Thierry........
Military Service.........
Francis K. Shattuck..
James Madison...........
Hillcrest......................
S. W. Hackett............
Fort Crook................El Cajon Valley.........
Sunnyside................._.
Progressive................

141.00
115.00
153.00
107.50
151.00
193.00
62.00
26.00
92.50
49.00
79.00
83.50
341.50
124.00
105.00
52.50
153.50
126.50
169.00
190.00
93.50
77.50
50.00
74.00
85.00
95.00
107.50
82.00
36.00
109.00
49.00
56.00
65.50
146.00
139.50
121.50
186.00
122.00
184.50
147.50
130.50
79.50
160.00
106.50
113.50
151.50
115.50
113.50
32.00
119.00
33.50
37.50
158.00
189.00

195.00
145.50
192.00
14325
163.50
252.00
87.00
31.50
131.25
69.00
96.00
93.75
332.25
168.00
144.00
72.75

130.00
97.00
128.00
95.50
109.00
168.00
58.00
21.00
87.50
46.00
64.00
62.50
221.50
112.00
96.00
48.50
137.50
110.50
128.00
153.00
74.50
63.50
45.00
50.00
76.00
83.00
90.50
61.00
29.00
83.00
43.00
53.00
59.50
128.00
98.50
91.50
115.00
88.00
148.50
113.50
102.50
61.50
157.00
98.50
85.50
126.50
84.50
79.50
28.00
92.00
33.50
30.50
126.00
132.00

20625

165.75
192.00
229.50
111.75
95.25
67.50
75.00
114.00
124.50
135.75
91.50
43.50
124.50
64.50
79.50
89.25
192.00
147.75
137.25
172.50
132.00
222.75
170.25
153.75
92.25
235.50
147.75
128.25
189.75
126.75
119.25
42.00
138.00
50.25
45.75
189.00
198.00

485
S25.00

Home Tax

Total

100.00
125.00
175.00
125.00
400.00
200.00
25.00
25.00
75.00
25.00
125.00
200.00
1,100.00
100.00
125.00
75.00
100.00
150.00
450.00
325.00
150.00
150.00
75.00
175.00
100.00
75.00
125.00
175.00
25.00
225.00
100.00 ·
25.00
75.00
125.00
425.00
275.00
675.00
300.00
300.00
350.00
175.00
175.00
25.00
100.00
250.00
275.00
275.00
325.00
25.00
275.00

566.00
482.50
648.00
471.25
823.50
813.00
232.00
103.50
386.25
189.00
364.00
439.75
1,995.25
504.00
470.00
248.75
597.25
552.75
939.00
897.50
429.75
386.25
237.50
374.00
375.00
377.50
458.75
409.50
133.50
541.50
256.50
213.50
289.25
591.00
810.75
625.25
1,148.50
642.00
855.75
781.25
561.75
408.25
577.50
452.75
577.25
742.75
601.75
637.25
127.00
624.00
117.25
213.75
723.00
1,094.00

100.00
250.00
575.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

486
Name or Lodge

S79 Warren G. Harding ..
S80 Santa Maria...............
S81 · Security.........:.............
S82 Rialto........_ .._____________
S83 ·:Wasco..........................
S84 Harding.......................
S8S Manchester.................
S86 Garden Grove..........._
S87 Valley Forge.........:....
S88 El Sereno....................
S89 Kauai ...........................
S90 Compass......................
S91 Escalon:.........:.............
S92 Tujunga.......................
S93 All States.:..................
S94 Service.........................
S9S Alexander G. Bell......
S96 Guardian.....................
S97 Truth..•._...::................
S98 Pearl Harbor..............
S99 Carmelita...................:
600 Lynwood....:....,...........
601 Grizzly.........................
602 Melrose........................
603 Dimond........................
604 Jubilce......'....................:
60S Glassell Park..............
607 Sojourner....................
608 Granada.................:.....
609 Provident....................
610 Elmhurst.....................
611 Canog&..................:.....
612 Temple City...............
613 Three Pillars..............
614 Larchmont..................
61S Hemet..........................
616 R. E. Dolley...............
617 Big Bear......................
618 Southland....................
619 Neptune.......................
620 Point Lorna.................
621 The Gardens ...............
622 Atwater.......................
623 Menorah......................
624 Fortitude.....................
62S Angeles Mesa.............
626 Chula Vista.................
627 Larnanda Park...........
628 Beacon of the West
629 Fairview:_..:................
630 Ingleside..- .................:
631 Benevolence................
632 N orrnal Heights........
633 Poinsettia.....................

General
Fund

100.00
26.SO
110.SO
S2.00
70.00
94.00
122.SO
Sl.50
117.SO
114.SO
S2.50
81.00
42.50
94.00
142.50
169.00
117.50
174.00
SS.00
178.SO
101.00
60.50
S8.SO
7S.SO
108.00
83.SO
143.SO
44.00
17S.OO
79.SO
7S.OO
• S9.00
93.00
116.SO
97.50
49.00
42.50
30.SO
104.SO
67.00
65.50
117.SO
100.00
22S.SO
74.SO
187.00
49.00
70.SO
69.SO
48.00
S2.SO
130.00
118.00
179.00

Home
Maintenance

109.SO
3S.2S
134.2S
60.00
81.00
111.00
1S0.7S
66.7S
132.7S
104.2S
71.2S
93.00
S6.25
78.00
192.75
219.00
122.25
17S.50
73.SO
13S.7S
129.00
74.2S
68.2S
87.7S
136.SO
107.25
168.7S
61.50
198.00
98.2S
93.00
8S.SO
81.00
108.7S
129.7S
S5.SO
35.2S
30.7S
129.75
91.SO
72.75
143.2S
115.SO
212.2S
89.2S
231.00
73.SO ·
77.ZS
7S.7S
67.SO
74.2S
132.00
130.SO
193.SO

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home
Building

73.00
23.SO
89.SO
40.00
S4.00
74.00
100.SO
44.SO
88.SO
69.SO
47.SO
62.00
37.SO
S2.00
128.50
146.00
81.50
117.00
49.00
90.SO
86.00
49.SO
4S.SO
S8.SO
91.00
71.50
112.SO
41.00
132.00
6S.SO
62.00
S7.00
S4.00
72.SO
86.SO
37.00
23.SO
20.SO
86.SO
61.00
48.SO
9S.SO
77.00
141.50
S9.SO
1S4.00
49.00
Sl.50

so.so

4S.OO
49.SO
88.00
87.00
129.00

$25.00
HomeTaz

22S.OO
2S.OO
17S.OO
7S.OO
12S.OO
27S.OO
2SO.OO
2S.OO
27S.OO
37S.00
2S.OO
17S.OO
7S.OO
425.00
150.00
325.00
275.00
SS0.00
S0.00
7SO.OO
150.00
7S.OO
lS0.00
!S0.00
17S.OO
lS0.00
300.00
25.00
3SO.OO
12S.OQ
100.00
375.00
37S.OO
12S.OO
100.00
175.00
S0.00
lS0.00
S0.00
200.00
275.00
lS0.00
82S.OO
lS0.00
2SO.OO
17S.OO
lS0.00
7S.OO
S0.00
375.00
32S.OO
S7S.OO

Name of Lodge
Total

S07.SO
110.2S
S09.2S
227.00
330.00
SS4.00
623.7S
187.7S
613.7S
663.2S
196.25
411.00
211.2S
649.00
613.7S
859.00
S96.2S
1,016.SO
227.SO
l,1S4.7S
466.00
2S9.2S
322.2S
371.7S
SlO.SO
412.25
724.7S
171.50
8SS.OO
368.2S
330.00
201.50
603.00
672.7S
438.7S
241.SO
276.2S
131.7S
470.7S
269.SO
386.7S
631.2S
442.SO
1,404.2S
373.2S
822.00
171.SO
374.ZS
34S.7S
23S.SO
226.2S
72S.OO
660.SO
1,076.SO

Fund
General

Maintenance
Home

Building
Home

,487
Home Tax
$25.00

Total

634 Victorville..................
63.SO
77.2S
Sl.50
100.00
292.2S
63S Riverside......:____________
111.00
118.SO
79.00
3SO.OO
6S8.SO
636 John Marshall....._. ____
74.SO
72.7S
48.SO
250.00
44S.7S
637 Palisades................:....
101.00
121.SO
81.00
200.00
S03.SO
638 Indian Rock................
60.00
76.SO
Sl.00
7S.OO
262.SO
639 Co~posite..............:--··
9S.OO
100.SO
67.00
250.00
S12.SO
640 Ventas........,.............._
4S.SO
S6.2S
37.SO
S0.00
189.2S
641 James A. Foshay........
4S.SO
S7.7S
38.SO
7S.OO
216.7S
642 La Cumbre..................
46.00
S2.SO
3S.00
IS0.00
283.SO
643 Alta Loma..................
130.SO
171.7S
114.SO
12S.OO
S41.7S
644 Lomita............,............
51.50
72.7S
48.SO
2S.OO
197.7S
64S A. F. E. Irwin....... ~---78.SO
99.7S
66:SO
12S.OO
369.7S
646 Metropolitan...............
49.SO
6S.2S
43.SO
2S.OO
183.2S
647 Hawthorne...................
26.00
34.SO
23.00
2S.OO
108.SO
648 Damascus.:..................
130.SO
140.2S
93.SO
325.00
689.25
649 Florence....'........:.........
99.00
130.50
87.00
lS0.00
466.50
6SO La Brea.........................
120.SO
134.2S
89.SO
300.00
644.2S
6Sl Menlo Park.................
40.SO
51.7S
34.50
S0.00
176.75
6S2 Crescenta Valley.......
66.00
78.00
S2.0.0
S0.00
l
346.00
'
6S3 F ontana
....._ ....... ,...,....
so.so
62.25
41.50
7S.OO
229.2S
654 J orcian.·-·--····------·--- ··
7S.OO
103.SO
69.00
S0.00
297.SO
6SS Monte Vista...............
1S6.00
168.00
112.00
400.00
836.00
6S6 Citrol...........................
62.00
88.SO
S9.00
2S.OO
234.SO
6S7 John D. Spreckels......
183.00
20S.50
137.00
sso.oo 1,07S.SO
6S8 Livingston...................
37.00
48.00
32.00
2S.OO
142.00
6S9 La Habra....................
S9.SO
7S.7S
so.so
7S.OO
260.7S
660 Baldwin Park.............
33.SO
44.2S
29.SO
2S.OO
132.2S
661 Malta...........................
61.SO
74.2S
49.SO
100.00
28S.2S
662 Henry Knox...............
127.SO
140.2S
93.SO
27S.OO
636.2S
663 OjaL......:...........-····-·
33.00
36.00
24.00
7S.OO
168.00
664 Oasis............................
39.SO
S6.2S
37.SO
2S.OO
1S8.2S
66S Kaweah..............:........
33.00
42.00
28.00
S0.00
1S3.00
666 Rescda.........................
40.SO
S4.7S
36.SO
S0.00
181.7S
667 Meridian.....................
106.00
124.SO
83.00
22S.OO
S38.SO
668 San Gorgonio.............
74.SO
6S.2S
43.SO
27S.OO
4S8.2S
669 John P. J arman..........
67.00
76.SO
Sl.00
12S.OO
319.SO'
670 · Greenleaf....................
!OS.SO
122.2S
81.50
200.00
S09.2S
671 SC!on Clemente..............
18.00
22.SO
lS.00
2S.OO
80.SO
672 Laguna Beach.............
30.00
33.00
22.00
12S.OO
210.00
673 Far West.....................
86.SO
98.2S
6S.SO
17S.OO
42S.2S
674 Los Cerritos..........- ....
S4.SO
62.2S
41.SO
lS0.00
308.ZS
67S Modesto.......................
101.50
102.7S
68.SO
300.00
S72.7S
676 Willow Qlc1,1...............
S8.SO
6S.2S
43.SO
l S0.00
317.2S
677 Liberal Arts................
48.00
46.50 .
31.00
200.00
32S.SO
678 Altadena....................:.
109.00
124.SO
83.00
300.00
616.SO
679 Canby Cross...............
42.00
27.00
18.00
32S.OO
412.00
680 Carmel.........................
31.00
34.SO
23.00
l S0.00
238.SO
Total due ................. $71,8SO.OO $92,209.SO $61,473.00 $96,SOO.OO $322,032.SO
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY G. MATHE_\VSON,
AulERT C, WOLLENBERG,
ALBERT W. McKEE,
WILLIAM A. SHARP,
IRVING MAGNES,
FRAN K REINKE,
Committee.
Report adopted.

.

488

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE MASONC CLUB
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY

~II of the va rious groups functioned splendidly, and one new group was
organized, known as Omega Delta Mu, with its membership made up of De
Molays, active, inactive or majority members. These young men have been
most helpful whenever opportunity offered.

William H. Waste, President cif the Board of Directors, presented the auditor's report of the financial condition of the club,
and requested an appropriation for the support of the club for
the ensuing year. Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF THE MASONC CLUB
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, LOS ANGELES
To the M." . w: .. Grand Lodge of California:
Your board of directors of the Masonic Club of the University of California
at Los Angeles fraternally submit their report for the year ending September
30, 1937.
We were stunned, as you all were, by the sudden passing of our chairman,
Brother Ira F. Thompson. Our work, our fraternity and our state have suffered an irreparable loss. The memory of his calm judgment and wise decisio~s
will ever be before us, serving as a guide and counselor in our meetings yet
to be held.
·
The following resolution was adopted by our Board at a meeting held September 30, 1937, and is made a part of this report:
Whereas, since the last meeting of the Board of Directors of the Masonic
Clubhouse at the University of California at Los Angeles, our beloved chairman,
the Hon. Ira F. Thompson, has been called from the scenes of his earthly
activities after having served as chairman of this board from its inception in
1924 until his passing on August 4, 1937; and
Whereas, he had guided the clubhouse project through the manifold problems of financing and constructing the beautiful structure in such an able manner
as to permit the presentation of the completed edifice to the Grand Lodge of
California not only without expense to that body, but with a substantial reserve
·remaining in the construction budget; and
Whereas, under his wise and friendly counsel the clubhouse and its activities
have been established on a sound financial basis and have become a great and
good influence in the campus and community life at Westwood; and
Whereas our late brother by his personal character and conduct earned and
enjoyed the ~onfidence, respect and affection of each member of this board;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved, that in the passing of Judge Thompson this board has suffered the irreparable loss of an able and conscientious leader and a devoted
friend and companion to whom we hereby acknowledge our gratitude and affection and to whose widow and family we express our deep sympathy in their
hour of trial, and
Be it further resolved, that the secretary be, and is hereby, directed to
spread this resolution upcin the minutes of this board and to transmit a copy
· of the same to the Thompson family.
·
The usefulness of the clubhouse continues to increase and no doubt such
will be .the case from year to year as each year brings an increase in the enrollment at- the University.

489

The Masonic Affiliate Council which supervises the activities of the club?ouse held 17 meetings. The social affairs were many and vari~, including 26
mformal dances held on Wednesday afternoons with an average attendance of
over 300. A ver?' successful play entitled "Wits End" was presented by the
Drama Club, which held _a total of 31 meetings, parties and teas by the Areme
Alu!11nae Group, a carnival sponsored by the Masonic Affiliate Council 27
affairs by the Areme Actives, including a Mothers' dinner and a Fathers' di~ner
~ormal parties, a fash~on show, and a benefit to provide funds for Thanksgiv.~
mg baskets to be furmshed under-privileged 'families.
The _Grand Matron and her suite were received and tea was served by the·

Arem~ girls.

T~e Board of _Directors entertained the clubhouse undergraduates and
Alumni at a dance with nearly 1,000 in attendance. The outstanding affair of the
year was a re~eption to our Most Worshipful Grand Master, Rollie W. Miller,
tendered by this board. In addition to our Grand Master and Mrs. Miller seven
Grand Lodge officers and their wives were present with a total of approxlmately
1,000.
Masonic affiliated students visited the clubhouse nearly 30 000 times upward
of 5,000 visits being to the study room.
'
'
. The .fin~ncial condition is reflected by the report of Brother Reynold E.
Blight, Certi?ed Public Accountant, which is attached hereto and made a part
hereof. It will be noted that another 5% dividend has been received from the
United States National Bank, making a total recovery of 75%.
With respect to the budget for the co.ming year, our estimate is a; follows:
Hostess :·····································-···..············-················'·:.:.•.$1,SOO.OO
Building Superintendent .......,.................:..,......................... 720.00
Heat, Light, Power and Water............, ............................, 650.00
Additional Janitorial Assistance ......................................
75.00
Gardening ······--•-·······-·-'·············-··················•··················---·· 220.00
Stationery and Printing .....,................................................ 150.00
Telephone ...,..- ..................................- ......................_........... 110.00
General Building Maintenance ...............,.......................... 300.00
Office Expense ........ _ ..........- .........,................................:...... 150.00

g~~;;:;:;i~~-~~~-~~~-~·~:-~::~=.~::·:~:~~-~ '·~~

Building Depreciation Reserve ·······························-········· 1,000.00
Furniture Replacement Reserve ...................................... 500.00

~~~~~f:~!~~s :::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::: ~~:~

$7,413.33
. We recommend that such provision be made for support and maintenance
durmg the year 1937-1938 as will be adequate for that purpose.
Fraternally submitted by order of the Board of Directors.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

491

G.R OUP HOSPITAL . INSURANCE

SALE OF LIQUOR

The of.ficers of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625 presented the
following:

J. W. Eddy, Past Master of Paso Robles Lodge N 286
pfreshented th~ f~llowing proposed substitute for Section oi29-A
o t e Constitution:

To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:

The undersigned, being members of this Grand Lodge, beg leave to present the following resolution:
Whereas, There exists in our minds a belief that further study is needed
on the subject of hospitalization for Masons; and
Whereas, As there is a definite statement of like mind by the Special
Committee on Hospitalization, embodied in their report, read before and ac. cepted by this Grand Lodge, on Tuesday, October 12, 1937; and
Whereas, There is in operation at the present time, in certain corporations, crafts and fraternities a plan wholly supported by the individual employe, craftsman, or member thereof, such plan being known as " Hospital
Group Insurance" ; and
Whereas, No less an authority on the costs and operation of hospitals than
Past Grand Master Charles M. Wollenberg informed the undersigned that
all hospitals in the city of San Francisco, with one exception, are now admitting patients under the "Hospital Group Insurance Plan"; and
Whereas, Brother Wollenberg also stated that in the light of his experience he believed that some plan of "Hospital Group Insurance" might be
used by individual Masons of this jurisdiction, after due permission and authorization of this Grand Lodge; and
Whereas, Inasmuch as the premiums of "Hospital Group Insurance" are
:borne by the individual who may expect to benefit therefrom, and not by
his employer or fraternity, and are of amounts less than one dollar per month;
and
Whereas, according to the opinion of Bro. Chas. M. Wollenberg, permission from Grand Lodge is necessary to enai,>le the Masonic Lodges of this
jurisdiction to set up organizations which would enable its members to take
advantage of this low rate hospital insurance.
Therefore, be it resolved: That the Grand Master be instructed to appoint
a special committee to investigate the plan of Group Hospital Insurance and
to frame the necessary legislation enabling Masonic Lodges in this Jurisdiction
to set up an organization which would enable its members to take advantage of
the low rates established by this "Grnup Hospital Insurance," and to report
back at the next annual communication of this Grand Lodge.
JOHN

E. ROBERTS, W.M.

CLAUDE R. Cox, S.W.

w ALTER R. GENTRY, P.M.
JOHN J. HUMBLE, P.M.

Referred to the Committee on PoliCy and General Purpose\\

Sec. 129-A. No Lodge shall receive
f ·
f
from any person or an applicatio f a ~t1~n or the degrees of Masonry
engaged either as principal or a en~ . or a 1a~10n from any Mason who is
1
sating or retailing liquor of an gl h ~. the busmess of manufacturing, wholeA
M
Y a co o 1c content whatever as a beverage
ny ason who shall hereafter enga
'th
· '·
·
business of manufacturin wh I
.
ge e~ . er as principal or agent in the
least alcoholic content w~~tev~/~~h~\or reta1hng of .i ntoxicating liquor of the
from all the rights and privileges f Meverage shall ipso facto stand expelled
o
asonry.
The foregoing shall · not apply to a
·
order of any court.
receiver or trustee acting under the

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

untit~04:~~ :.~~~o~ Tanhd 30d minutes. Grand Lodge was called off
c

urs ay mornmg.

492

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Jfn ~ranb JLobgt

GENERAL REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 14, 1937.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.
Past Grand Master Whiting appeared and took his seat.
Leslie E. Wood, Grand Lecturer, reported for the Ritual
Committee, recommending certain changes in the Monitor and
Manual for Officers, which were adopted and will be promulgated by the Grand Lecturer and Assistant Grand Lecturers.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee charged with the duty of ascertaining cost of transpo.rtation for one person 'from the location of each Lodge in the j~risdiction to the
place of meeting of Grand Lodge and return, and of repor.tmg .such cost of
transportation as the sum due to the officers or Representatives m attendance
from each Lodge, as well as Grand Officers, Past Grand Masters, chairmen an~
members of outstanding committees and Inspectors, for their necessary expenditures to and from Grand Lodge, report that they have carefully discharged. this
duty. Transportation allowance is fixed by the Constitution at twice the smgle
first-class one-way fare, plus sleeper charges where necessary.
This committee desires to express its appreciation to the Anglo-Californiii.
Bank for the courtesy extended through Brother Louis Sutter, Past Master of
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225, in making it possible for us to have the necessary cash
and tellers available to cash transportation checks on Friday, immediately
following the election of the Junior Grand Warden.
Following is a statement of the amount necessary:
Grand Lodge Officers ... _ '. -·······-··· - .• ~- ··-····- ....... $ 592.30
297.92
Past Grand Masters -•·······-··-··.---·····-··-.. ---~---··----.-···-··-··-··-·
685.76
Committees -·-···-·-····--....--···-·-···-·-···--..... _..............................
68.20
Assistant Grand Lecturers ..........,.................................-.
Inspectors ···---···-···--·-·····'··..·-··--·········:--·-·-·-----....- .............. 1,998.68
Representatives .................... _..........._................................-. 13,325.14
Total :.......................·.........- ...................................$16,968.00
JoHN H. McGEHEE,
WESLEY DAVIES,
LEONARD GROSS,
F. E. SNEDECOR,
BEN G. WRIGHT,

J.

Committee.

Report adopted.

493

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California: ·
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to submit the following report :
Audit of Accounts
Your committee has again employed Brother Floyd F. Webb of the firm of
Ruckstell and Land, Certified Public Accounta.nts, to examine the books and
rec~rds ~f the. Grand Treasurer, the Grand $ecretary, the Masonic Homes of
~a!tforma and the Endowment Fund. The reports of Brother Webb's examina- ,
t10n .of al~ these records have been filed with your committee and have had its
cons1d~ra~1on. These reports are now on file with the records of Grand Lodge.
They md1cate that all records are correct and in proper shape and all. receipts
properly accounted for and all expenditures properly made.
. Brot~er W~bb is entitled to the commendation of this committee for the
time, the attention and the personal interest he has given to this examination.
It exc~eds t~e amount of remuneration which Grand Lodge has been making
f?r this service. Brother Webb feels that he is entitled to additfonal compensation. Heretofore, we have paid him for all the work that he has done for the
Ho~es as we!! . as for Grand Lodge a sum of $450.00. We feel that he is
entitled to additional compensation and have agreed with him on an additional
fee o~ $250.00. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption.
·
Resolved, That an additional compensation of $250.00 be allowed the firm
of Ruckstell & Land for the auditing done this past year and that the same
be charged against the general expenses of Grand Lodge.
Grand Lodge Week Activities
The report of the committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities fully sets
forth what has been done for the entertainment of the members who are
att<;nding' this Grand Lodge which report has been adopted by this Grand Lodge.
It 1s to be noted from the report of this committee that the amount expended
exceeds the amount allowed by approximately $1,200.00. While the committee
is relucta~t to see the amount of any appropriation exceeded, yet it feels that
the committee has done a very splendid job; that the entertainment Tuesday
night was high class and most enjoyable and also, that the trip to the Masonic
Home by the members of Grand Lajge was more than worth the while. This
latter item very largely accounts for the increase of the amount expended over
the amount previously appropriated to cover the expenses of this committee.
Your committee has approved of all of these expenditures and offers the .following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That ~he sum of $3,200.00 or so much thereof as may be necessary
to pay the expenses incurred by the Grand Lodge Week Activities Committee be
and the same is hereby appropriated out of the funds of Grand Lodge and the
same be allocated to the payment of the expenses incurred in the entertainment
of officers and members during this session.

Adopted.
Masonic Education
Your committee to which has been referred that portion of the reoort of
the committee on Masonic Education relating to the publication and distribution of a pamphlet for the Masonic instruction of candidates begs leave to
report as follows :
Thi; Chaiqn_a n of th~ Coµimitte~ on Polic:y and General Pur~ses h•s ;1;~-

494

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

sured us verbally that his committee favors the proposal. We concur and offer
the following resolution:
"Resolved, That the sum of $1,200.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge to defray the expenses of printing, and distributing, when approved
by the Grand Master, a pamphlet on Masonic Educatio?."
Custodian for Western Star Lodge
Your committee has for consideration the resolution of Brother Carl H .
Seamans, providing for the employment of a full-time custodian of the Masonic
relics and records, which are housed in the Masonic Temple at Old Shasta,
Tehama County, and making an appropriation therefor.
These valuable relics of early California Masonry, collected by Western
Star Lodge No. 2, are now being kept in a fire-proof vault which was constructed in 1928 by Grand Lodge at a cost of $3,000.00. They are, therefore,
being preserved from loss or deterioration.
Undoubtedly, these relics would bf/ of great interest to visiting Masons
and their friends and, although it would be gratifying to exhibit them as historical evidence of our long and honorable Masonic record in this state, your
committee is of the opinion that the present state of the finances of Grand Lodge
does not warrant the incurring of such expense. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
"Resolved, That the proposal to employ a full-time custodian of records
at the Masonic Temple at Old Shasta and making an appropriation therefor,
be and the same is hereby disapproved."
Manual for Conduct of Lodges
Your committee has for consideration the following resolution presented
by Brother Chas. R. Cooper.
"Resolved that the Finance Committee be authorized to make a suitable
appropriation for the publication of the manual for Blue Lodge Stated Meetings,
which manual was authorized at the 1936 Grand Lodge Annual Communication."
The proceedings of the 1936 Annual Communication on this subject reads as
follows : (Report of Committee on Policy.) If there is a real demand for a
manual it should be prepared and published. The committee recommends that the
Grand Secretary prepare such a manual if, in his judgment, there is a demand
for it and it is needed, and that the matter be referred to the Finance Committee for an appropriation for such publication, if in the future the Grand Secretary desires to publish it.
Your committee is of the opinion that, if the Grand Secretary believes
such a manual is needed and prepares the same for publication, the expenses
of publication not exceeding $200.00 should be authorized.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
"Resolved, That if the Grand Secretary believes a manual for the conduct
of Stated Meetings is needed, and if he prepares such a manual for publication,
he be authorized with the approval of the Grand Master to expend the sum of
$200.00 or as much thereof as may be necessary for the publication thereof."
Salary of Grand Secretary
Your committee has for consideration a resolution presented by Brother
C. E. Mallachowitz providing that the salary of the Grand Secretary be fixed
at five thousand dollars per annum.
This resolution is identical with one introduced by the same brother and
rejected by Grand Lodge at our last annual communication, and your committee
is unanimously of the opinion that like action should be taken this year.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

495

The important and arduous duties of the office of Grand Secretary and the
social requirements of the position, as well as the unusual capabilities of our
present Grand Secretary, who has devoted more than thirty years of his life to
our service, impells us to conclude that the present salary, which is $2,800.00 less
than it was three years ago, is fully justified by the service rendered and should
·
remain unchanged.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved, That the resolution fixing the salary of the Grand Secretary at
$5,000.00 per annum be disapproved and that the salary of the office remain
unchanged.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
Your Committee on Finance has for consideration the request of the
Masonic Homes Endowment Board for appropriation to carry on this very
worthy activity for the ensuing year. In connection therewith we have reviewed
the activities of the board and analyzed the report of the Endowment Fund
prepared by public accountants. It is noted the fund has been increased during
the year just past by approximately $120,000.00, made up of contributions and
increasing amounts in bequests from members of the craft. While the increase
is a splendid achievement, it is in no wise indicative of the untiring efforts of
the board in constantly keeping before the membership the need for the
perpetuation of the Masonic Homes of California through an adequate Endowment Fund. Your committee again wishes to reiterate that by reaching an ultibe relieved of a
mate goal in the Endowment Fund the individual Lodges
large part of the per capita tax now being paid to Grand Lodge.
Your committee is of the opinion there should be no diminishment in the
results obtained on the part of the Endowment Board and to further their
accomplishments and provide the necessary expenses incident thereto, we offer
the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $6,000.00 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of Grand Lodge to be paid to the Masonic Homes Endowment Board
for its expenses for the year ending July 31, 1938.

will

Masonic Club Houses of the University of California at
Berkeley and Los Angeles
The comprehensive reports of the directors of our two club houses, together
with the auditor's statements thereon, have been analyzed with interest by your
committee. The untiring efforts of the two most efficient Boards of Directors
are evidenced by the increased participation of students in the various activities
arranged during the year.
During the past year, our fraternity, and this Grand Jurisdiction in particular, suffered the loss of one of its most loved members. Brother Ira F.
Thompson, chairman of the Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of the
University of California at Los Angeles, passed to his reward on August 4, 1937.
The resolution and testimonial spread upon the minutes of that board on his
passing reflects the esteem and affection in which' this concientious leader and
loyal friend was held by his fellow members and the fraternity at large.
Du.ring the year, the condition of the furnishings at the Berkeley Club
House, me~tione~ in the committee's report of las~ year as approaching obsolescence, was mveshgated by the Board of Directors. It is necessary that replacements be made at this time, the equipment having been in use for fourteen years
and it is the opinion of your committee that the plans of the board along that
line are in accord with economy and necessity.
The budgets of both club houses for operation are approximately the same
as last year and are approved by the committee.

496

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved, That the ~um of $15,400.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge for the support of the Masonic Club Houses, $8,000.00 to be paid
to·the directors of the Masonic Club House at Berkeley and $7,400.00 to be paid
to the directors of the Masonic Club House at Los Angeles.
Reports of Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary
Your committee has carefully reviewed the reports of both the V. W.
Grand Secretary John Whicher and M.".
Grand Treasurer William
P. Filmer and feel that the necessarily brief statistical statements do not truly
reflect the tremendous amount of w9rk behind these reports or the untiring
efforts expended during the past twelve months of their stewardship. Your committee therefore desire to highly commend their work and to express deep
appreciation for their unceasing efforts.
Of the Grand Secretary, whose report closes the thirtieth year of continuous
loyal service, we expect much in guidance toward a betterment of Masonic
procedure, which can only be garnered from his rich experiences of years of
s~rvice. We con{mend this fq.ithful officer on a fulfillment of our expectations.
The management of the financial affairs of the Grand Lodge is no small
task and the Grand Treasurer, in his report, shows careful consideration of
investments, both Endowment and General Funds to the end that a maximum
yield is secur.ed without sacrificing safety of principal. The committee especially
wishes to commend this officer on his thoughtful attention to the preservation
of the Grand Lodge's assets which reflects not only rare judgment but watchful
care.

w:.

Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
It is to be noted with satisfaction that the number of Lodges that find their
financial condition such that they cannot pay Grand Lodge dues continues to
show improvement. The records show that three such Lodges,
Oceanside No. :381:....- ....... _.: ..............;..•......•...........................$237.50
Jubilee No. 604 ........................................................:............... 150.00
Laguna Beach No. 672.....k............_..,..........._ ....-......4.¥·-···· 85.00
have so far not paid. We are advised, however, that·both Oceanside and Jubilee
are in a position to and do expect ·to pay at once.
Your committee requested a conference with the Laguna Beach Lodge
representative but the representative of this Lodge has failed to call upon us
and we are, therefoi:e, not able to report on its condition. Your committee feels,
however, that additional time should be given all these Lodges for the payment
of their Grand Lodge dues. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and
recommend its adoption:
Resolved, T hat the three above named Lodges be granted further time in
which to pay the amount due Grand Lodge for unpaid dues.
Unpaid Loans
The following Lodges still have unpaid loans due this Grand Lodge :
Chowchilla Lodge No. 485 .........................·- ·····················- ···$650.00
Drytown Lodge No.. 114............................,.......::.._..:......- ..... 440.00
Seal Beach Lodge No. 616~........:..-·-···•·'-···--·········~······-··· 250.00
During the year, Drytown Lodge has paid $30.00 on account of their note
and Seal Beach Lodge $100.00. In discussing the affairs of these two Lodges
with their representatives it has developed that the condition of Seal Beach
Lodge is materially improved and that the possibility of paying their debt this
year is quite satisfactory. Drytown Lodge also has hopes but, due to the small-

497

?ess of the Lodge and th~ general c?ndition~ in this mountain community,
it must be expe~ted that this Lodge will reqmre considerable further time in
the paym.ent .of its note. However, the Brothers there have a fine courage and
a deter.min_aho~ to carry the banner of Masonry high and to eventually settle
the obligation m full to Grand Lodge.
T.he situations . surrounding Chowchilla Lodge are not so good although
some improvement in the financial condition has been made this past year and it
would seem ~hat s?me additio~a~ improvement should be made in the near future.
Your committee is .of the op1mon that this Lodge together with the other two
Lodges should b~ given fur~her time in which to pay these loans and, therefore,
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption ;
. Resolved, That ~he three above named Lodges be given further time in
which to pay the vanous amounts due from them to Grand Lodge.
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59
Your committee on buildings has recommended an allowance to this Lodge
of $400.00 ~or the purpose of assisting the Lodge in rehabilitating its temple.
The Lo?ge 1~ one of the very old ones ?~ing ~ o. 59 and has a membership of
on!! th1~ty-s1x. For ~an:l'. years, conditions m and near the community, in
wh1~h. this Lodge-~all is situated, have been like many of our old mining communities and that 1s at. pretty m~ch of a standstill nor does it seem that the
outlook for the futu;e is 1?uch d1.fferent than it has been for many years. The
Lodge has. had some illustrious members. It is proud of its record and the present
membership, although. few, are determined to carry on and continue to hold the
ba?n~r of Mas?nry high. Your committee concurs in the recommendation of the
bmld1.ng comm1tte~ but .beli~ves that the amount should be loaned rather than
contnbuted. Our inve~hgatJon leads us to believe that, while this Lodge may
not b~ able to pay this loan for some little time, yet it can eventually. Your
com~1ttee, therefore, offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $400.00 be appropriated from the funds of this

Gra~d Lodge and be loaned to Gravel Range Lodge No. 59 upon the Lodge's

passing the necessary resolution authorizing the loan and executing its note in
favor of Grand Lodge for the amount, the note to bear interest at the rate of
f our per cent per annum.
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
. Your committee has examined the reports of the Board of Control on
~e1mburs~ment o~ B~rds of Relief and Masonic Employment Service. In addition to this examination, we have had a personal discussion with the members
of the boa~d. The reports and the personal discussion disclose the great amount
of care this .board has .exercised and the tremendous amount of work it has
done. .we w!sh to. again commend the members of this board for the very
sple.n?1d serv1c~ which they are rendering Grand Lodge and again iterate that in
a~d1t10n to savmg Gran~ Lodge money they are, also, saving your Finance Com~mttee a great deal of h?1e and worry. Your committee is thoroughly for them
m the work they are domg.
The report of this board recommends reimbursements to Boards of Relief
·
as follows :

Oakl~~d a~d Berkeley Board of Riziief..............................$360.00
San ranc1sco Board of Relief._..........................._.... _...•.... 245.00
Bakersfield Board of Rel~ef.•.:................ _............ ___··········· 75.00
Total ·---- ···········.................................:...._ ,_ ..._.........- ..$680.(JO

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We offer the fololwing resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $680.00 be and is ?ereby appropriated from the
funds of Grand Lodge to reimburse Board~ of Relief as set out above.
Masonic Employment Service
The Board of Control has recommended to this committee that moneys
should be appropriated to the following employment bureaus as follows :
San Francisco Employment Service............ ,.................$ 2,800.00
F.ast Bay Employment Servke..............·-····-··········-····· 2,400.00
Los Angeles Employment Service...... ~........:.................. 4,300.00
San Diego Employment Service....:...,..............................
500.00
Long Beach Employment Service.................................. 2,000.00
Sacramento Employment Service....................,_.............
600.00
Total ...........;........, .....~ .........,...:............................$12,600.00
We concur in the recommendations of the Board of Control and offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $12,600.00 be and i_s hereby 3:ppr_opria~ed ~r?m
the funds of Grand Lodge to be divided into donations to assist in maintaining
employment bureaus as listed above.
Correspondence Committee Report
Last year, the then retiring Grand Master M." .W .'.Earl \\7arren recom
mended a review of the proceedings of other Grand Lodges and that a r~port
of same be made to Grand Lodge and published in its ann~a~ proceedings.
This report was concurred in by this committe; and an ap~ropr1at1~n of $500.00
was made to defray the expenses of the Chairman of. this Committee for_ the
preparation of the report. The Chairman of the Committee, Bro. J~sse White?,
has prepared such a report and it will be printed in the proceedings of this
Grand Lodge. We commend the Chairman for the. report and .f~r the work
we know this report has entailed. Your committee 1s of the opm10_n that the
expense of having the proceedings of 0th.er Grand Lodges reviewed and
published is more than justified.. Your c~mm1ttee, therefore, · offers the fotlow.
ing resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $500.00 be and is he_reby appropnated fr_om the
funds of this Grand Lodge and :be. paid to the C?a1rman of t_he Co~m.1ttee on
Correspondence for the purpose of ~efraying his expenses in reviewing and
preparing his report for that Committee.
Traveling Expenses of Grand Master
Your committee has given consideration to an ap~ropriation to cover the
traveling expenses of the Grand Master for the coming year. Last year an
appropriation of $3500.00 was made for this purpose and t~e Grand Master
expended the entire amount in making his ~isitations to ~anous pa_rts of the
· · di tion Your committee is in accord with the extensive traveling of the
~~~d cMaster believing that his visits are of ine~t~mable b~nefit .to the Lodges,
to Masonry and to the communities which he v1s1ts. In d1scussmg the matt~r
with the present Grand Master together with the inco~ing Gr3:n~ Master, It
would seem that the same appropriation for this year will be suff1c1ent to co~er
the expenses of our incoming Grand Master. W e, therefore, offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $3500.00 be, and the ~ame is hereby appropriated
from the funds of Grand Lodge, to pay the traveling expenses of the ·Grand
Master during the coming Masonic year.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

499

Portrait of Grand Master
For many years it has been the policy of this Grand Lodge to appropriate
$150.00 for the portrait cif the retiring Grand Master. Last year, your committee raised this appropriation to $250.00 due to a belief that for the previous
sum appropriated: that is, $150.00, satisfactory portraits could not be obtained.
Your committee is still of the.same opinion. Your committee, therefore, recommends that our retiring Grand Master- the M.".W.".Rollie W. Miller-have
his portrait painted and present the bill . to the Grand Secretary, in an amount
not to exceed $250.00, who is authorized to pay the same and, when the portrait has been painted to be hung in the gallery of the Past Grand Masters.
Portraits of Preceding Grand Masters
The report of this committee for last year called the attention to the
lack of presence of the portraits of the following Past Grand Masters: William
Rhodes Hervey, William A. Sherman, Will H. Fischer, and George L. Jones.
Since that time the portrait of Past Grand Master Sherman has been
completed and is now in the gallery of Past Grand Masters, as has also
been the portrait of Past Grand Master Randolph V. Whiting. The report
also called to the attention of Grand · Lodge that it was of the opinion that
the portrait of Past Grand Master Burke was unsatisfactory and recommended
that an additional portrait of M.".W.".B rother Burke be obtained and for
the portraits of these five Past Grand Masters recommended an appropriation of $250.00 for each portrait which recommendation was concurred in
by Grand Lodge. The report also recommended the appropriation of $250.00
for the portrait of the then retiring Grand Master M.".W.".Earl Warren.
This portrait has not yet been completed which leaves the score of five Past
Grand Masters whose portraits this Grand Lodge has not in its gallery of
portraits. We are still of the opinion that these Past Grand Masters should
have their portraits painted. Your committee, therefore, recommends that the
above five Past Grand Masters be requested to have their portraits painted
and present the bills for the same .t o the Grand Secretary, in an amount not
to exceed $250.00 for each portrait, who is authorized to pay the same and
that when these portraits have been painted they be hung in the gallery of
Past . Grand Masters.
Pay of Members
Your Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report indicating
that the amount required fo pay the traveling expenses of officers and members attending this session amounts to the sum of $16,968.00. We, therefore,
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $16,968.00 be and is hereby appropriated for
the purpose of paying the traveling expenses of the officers and members
attending this session.
Salaries
Your committee has given its usual consideration to the salaries being paid
by this Grand Lodge to its Grand Officers. It recommends that the salaries for
the coming year be fixed as follows :
Grand Secretary .................................,'..,............. ~.......:,...,...$7,200.00
Grand Lecturer ........................................::...:...................... 600.00
Assistant Grand Secretary ................................······-····--··· 3,600.00
Grand Tiler ............................................................._............. 200.00
Grand Organist .................................................................... 100.00
We further recommend that the salaries of the Grand Secretary and Assistant "Grand Secretary be for their services to the Masonic Homes, as well as for
the services to Grand Lodge, and that for their services to the Masonic Homes,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge is to be reimbursed from the funds of the Home in the amount of
$1,800.00 per annum.
We also recommend that the traveling expenses incurred by the Grand
Lecturer and the four Assistant Grand Lecturers in performing their official
duties within the State of California as well as the expenses incurred by Grand
Lodge Officers, or members of Grand Lodge, ,who may be traveling by authority
of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore;

' clearly than any words as to how close the budget was adhered to. The year
just closed has been the third consecutive year that the expenses have exceeded
Grand Lodge income, the various years being as follows :

500

Grand Lodge Per Capita.
The Constitution provides for the levying of a per capita of 50 cents to
provide for the expenses of Grand Lodge and its various committees. As will be
noted by the Budget, which is being submitted hereafter in this repo:t, the
revenue derived from this source, together with other revenues commg to
Grand Lodge, will not be sufficient to pay the oper~ting expens~s . of Gr~nd
Lodge during the coming year and care for the various appropriations bemg
made in this report. This is more fully explained in that portion of this report
hereinafter submitted dealing with the budget. This does not mean, however,
that the funds are not on hand to care for all Grand Lodge expenses for the
coming. year together with all appropriations recommended. This, however,: is
not due to the monies provided by the per capita collected but to funds which
have come into Grand Lodge Treasury through the calling of securities and
which funds have not yet been reinvested. These funds and securities have
been accumulated in previous years as a reserve against the time when they
might be needed. The budget has not been balanced for thre~ yeai:s, the exact
deficit amounting to approximately $30,000.00. Your committee 1s firmly of
the opinion that this deficit should not be permitted to further accrue; in other
words that the budget should be balanced this year. We are, therefore, recommendi~g that, in addition to the per capita of 50 cents provided by the Con~ti­
tution an additional per capita of 15 cents be levied to care for the operating
expen~es of Grand Lodge and the various appropriations made in this reporl
The Constitution also provides for a per capita levy of 50 cents for the
Building Fund of the Masonic Homes. In addition to this Building Fund, ~nd
the other revenues coming to the Homes, the trustees have suggested the levying
of an additional per capita of 75 cents for maintenance of our two homes. In
discussing their report with the Homes Trustees, it appears to your committee
and is agreed to by the trustees that a per capita levy of 50 cents will be sufficient to cover the needs of the Homes. Your committee, therefore, offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, That a per capita levy of 50 cents per member be levied, and
when paid, shall be paid by the Grand Secretary to the Trustees of t~e Homes
for the operation and maintenance expenses of the · Homes and be 1t further
Resolved That a per capita levy of 15 cents per member be levied for the payment of Grand Lodge expenses and for its various Masonic activities.
Budget
In analyzing the report of the Grand Secretary on receipts and disbursements for the year ending July 31, 1937, your committee advises that the
income received was approximately that set out in the budget at our last annual
Grand Lodge and that the total disbursements are very closely within the amount
budgeted for the purposes. This is a .splendid showing and is pleasin&: to yo~r
committee that those who are spending Grand Lodge funds are domg their
best to keep within the budget allowance.
In the budget set up for last year, we called Grand Lodge's attention t~
the fact that the excess of expenditures over income for the year would approximate $15,000.00. The exact figures are $12,973.94. This tells the story more

501

1935 .,·-·······-···•i·-·····- ··..······--··..-·..·-··r-$ 7,000.00
1936 ................................................................ 9,400.00
1937 ................................................................ 13,000.00
or a total for the three years oL..............................................$29,400.00
Last year your committee stated to Grand Lodge that it expected to balance
the budget this year and not increase the per capita requirements. We are happy
to say that we are not oirly balancing the budget but we are reducing the per
capita 10 cents. This, of course, is entirely due to the better financial condition
of the Homes. Your committee is much gratified that it is able to balance the
budget this year and yet actually reduce the amount which Grand Lodge is
requiring from its constituent Lodges.
There are many items in the Budget, particularly the item of Relief, that
are difficult to estimate. Consideration, therefore, must be given to these items
and the amount set after several of the items are only estimates. Your committee's estimate of the income and expen~es are as follows:
Income
Dues from Lodges -········:.....;.........___,.......- ..;.....................:......,..............$ 90,000.00
Interest and dividends ...................................................................................... 11,000.00
Total income ...................................,.................:............................... ;$101,000.00
Estimated expenses :
Salaries ..,.................................. ___....................................$11,500.00
Printing ...............:................................................................ 4,500.00
Traveling expense-Grand Lecturer and assistants.... 2,000.00
Office rent ............................................................................ 1,950.00
Postage ··········-·····-························-···································
500.00
Auditing ................................................................................
150.00
Telephone and telegraph ..................................................
300.00
Grand Master relief ............................................................ 5,000.00
Board of Control ................................................................
600.00
Public Schools Week ........................................................
600.00
Fifty Year Buttons ............................................................
400.00
Portraits Grand Master and five Past Grand Masters 1,500.00
Salary Grand Lecturer .................................'.....................
600.00
Outside Relief .......................... _......................................... 7,500.00
Miscellaneous ...................................................................... 3,000.00
Appropriations:
$40,100.00
Pay of members .................. :...............,....,......$17,000.00
Reimbursement, Boards of Relief..............
680.00
Employment bureaus ...................................... 12,600.00
Traveling expense, Grand Master.............. 3,500.00
Masonic Club Houses .................................... 15,400.00
Endowment Board .......................................... 6,000.00
Grand Lodge Activities ................................ 2,000.00
Masonic Educational Committee ................ 1,200.00
Committee on Correspondence ....................
500.00

$58,880.00 $ 98,980.00
Leaves a balance of receipts over disbursements of ..............;... $2,020.00

S02

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

S03

Per Capita Levy
As before reported, the per capita levy for the year will . be ten cents
per member less than the preceding three years and is as follows :
Grand Lodge ......:.....;.;...•...,............;.,,;....................:.,............... _....$ .SO
Masonic Homes Building Fund.........;.............,.............:·--·····- .SO
Masonic Homes Maintenance Special Levy ...................... .SO
Additional for Grand Lodge Activities ............................ .IS
Total .......................:....._...................;._..........................~ ...:$1.6S
EARL w ARREN'
GEORGE M. BECH,
FREDERICK W. Morons,
WALTER L. BERGER,
FRANK c. RUPPEL,
ARTHUR s. CRITES,

The entire report was adopted as read.

CHANGE OF LODGE NAME
To the M.'. w:. (frand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters presents the following report:
In the matter of applications for dispensation and the issuance of charters:
your committee reports for the second successive year no applications for
charters received.

BOARD OF CONTROL REPORT
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Control is pleased to submit the annual report of its
activities during the Masonic year.
Our Grand Master has been unusually helpful· in his assistance and
advice during the entire period.
It has been another year of hearty co-operation of the Boards of Relief
and individual Lodges with the Board of Control.
Due to the systematic handling of cases at the present time by Boards of
Relief and Lodges, there is a decided decrease in the calls upon our Board
of Control to collect from Lodges of other jurisdictions.
Our work however, has grown in the direction of consultations and
advice on many problems that arise during the year and we believe the
results are the avoidance of errors in policy and growth in uniformity of
the work of the Boards of Relief and Lodges.
Meetings
.
It has been necessary to hold one special meeting during the fiscal year.
Correspondence however, .has been continuous.
A committee of the Board consisting of Robert F. Calender and Frank
M. Wise visited the San Diego Board of Relief in relation to problems which
that Board desired us to consider. The result of that conference was a
meeting during this Grand Lodge of a large representation of the San Diego
District with the Board of Control. The conference was highly successful in
its results and an even closer bond established.
A dinner meeting was held October 13th for general information and
discussion. There were seventy-four present. The meeting was very enthusiastic and we believe beneficial to all concerned.

Your committee has received and recomm_ends the approval of the
following:
1. The application of Seal Beach Lodge No. 616 for permission to
change the name thereof to "R. E. Dolley Lodge."

Recoveries
The Board of Control has recovered for Grand Lodge $200.00 and also
$63.00 for a local Lodge as reimbursements.

2. The application of Canby's Cross Lodge No. 679 to Canby Cross Lodge
No. 679.

Reimbursements
We have examined the Requests for Reimbursements and have recommended to the Finance Committee that the following Boards of Relief be
reimbursed in the amounts stated:
Bakersfield ....:...............-..............;,.,.:....-.,'.........:..~.:..............£. •••.$ 75.00
Oakland and Berkeley ......................................................:... 360.00
San Francisco .......................................................................... 24S.OO

LEE T. MULLEN,
HENRY EISSLER,
RODERICK B. CASSIDY,
RoY BRYAN,
CHARLES E. SONES,
VICTOR EAGAN,
ERNEST c. FUGREL,
Committee.

The report was adopted.

Total ................................,...:....,................,.........,..............$680.Qj)
Again, Brethren, we are happy to report a decrease in the requests. for
reimbursement, although last year we expressed the thought that we · had
reached an irreducible minimum. We belive, however, that further reductions
cannot be expected.
It is true that the calls for relief have been less during the past year
owing to the many relief agencies functioning, which have in a measure, lessened our burden. Notwithstanding this fact, however, our Boards of Relief
alone have dispensed the sum of $S4,293.00 during the past year for the relief
of brethren of our own and other jurisdictions.

'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

S04

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

May we call your attention to the fact that the disbursement of this
large sum for relief, with the recovery of all but $680.00 reflects great credit
on the management of our several Boards of Relief. To these fine Secretaries we desire to express our sincere thanks for a job well done.
Alameda: Board of Relief is composed of Masters of three Lodges and
meets monthly. No salaries are paid. No per capita assessment during the year.
No funerals were conducted by the Lodges of the board. No funds advanced
for funerals.
·
Balance on hand last report .. _ ... _.,.... .._: .. _.....................- ................ ..$ 62.S6
Receipts Duri1ig the Year
Interest savings account ·················-···································································

1.02

Total receipts ····-·-···~·-·-···'"--·······--·•~-·-·;···•·r···:·•··-··········..:- ...:.$'

63.S8

Disbursements
None

.00

-•••• .. •••••••~••••• .. ••••••-:•"• ..·•••••••••••· .. u•··•-••••o••,.••••••••••••d•••••••••••••••••••••••••~••••-••••O•

Balance on hand July 31, 1937.......,_.,.....:...••......,.;.,..................- ......,.............. .$

63.S8

Bakersfield: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Senior Wardens
of four ~dges and meets quarterly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary,
who receives $10.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the
sum of $SOO.OO each.
Balance on hand last report ·:-·-·-....,•··--··--'-·············-"··:..,........-•···-$
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ··················-······.-·····.-·············:................................$198.25
Funeral reimbursements ·······-······--····················-·····-······················· 30.90
Interest ·····-·······-·-·····································-··--···································· l.S9

26.98

230.74

Total receipts ··--·--,·--··--·.--:·-···-·.:...........-·-·······--···'-·$ 257.72
Disbursements
Funerals ·;····--·.···•··-····---···-:;.-··········--·-·.··'.-········•·-···-····..···..$ 30.90
Salaries ····················-········-········..············-·········································· S0.00
Telegraph ····-········-·····-···-···························-'························-··········
.9S
Field representative expense ............................................................ 70.00
Miscellaneous ······························-···--····················-··························· 15.00

Disbursements
California Lodges .....................,. .... --··--····..,;..,.~--·-·.,..............,.$ 10.30
Other Lodges in U. S ............................................,........................ 276.18
S.00
Individuals-donations ....................................................................
Salaries ······························································-·····-········-·········-·· 900.00
2.00
Printing and stationery ··-············-·····················-························Total disbursements ··············-····-····-····-··-······-··········-··--~.$1,193.48
Balance on hand July 31, 1937..............,........... ~····-···-"•····-·.,....····-···-·-·--$ 499.41
Honolulu: Board of Relief is composed of four Lodges and meets monthly.
No paid employees. Treasurer's bond is in the sum of $SOO.OO.
Balance on hand last report (in bank) ........ -~..- .................:.........:..... ;... .$ 731.28
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ,...............- ..--·--.-·~--· ..-·;···--.:."·..-··-·----.$ 21S.10
Other Lodges in U. S. .................................................................... 119.89
Foreign Lodges ·································-···-···-···································
8.30
Redeemed two $1,000 P. G. & E. bonds.......-........................... -. 2,100.00
Interest on bonds ---·-·······--------·---··················································- llS.00

2,558.29

Total receipts ................................- ..•:.................·-·····--···-··.. .$;3,289.57
Dis bursemen ts
California Lodges ·-·-······.....,..... ~ .......,.....- .........:....,......~ ..........$ 268.93
Other Lodges in U. S ......................... ·-······························-········· 204.52
Foreign Lodges ................................................................................ 208.30
4.40
Rent safety deposit box ..................................................................

3.72
Telegraph ··············································-·············-···············-··········
S.28
Po~ta~e -··············:····"·:·······..···············································.. ············
720
Prmtmg and stat10nery ................................................................. .
Christmas donations -··························-·········································
29.S2
Purchase of two P. G. & E. bonds.............................,.................. 2,097.13
Total disbursements .: ....................................:.............................$2,829.00

.Total disbursements ....................................................................

166.85

Balance cash on hand July 31, 1937.._ ...•:.•.~ ..•,.. :............_....:._ ...;.........,...... ~ ...$

90.87

Fresno: Board of Relief is composed of three members each of four
and meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who
receives $7S.OO per month. The Secretary is bonded in the sum of $1000.00.
Fidelity insurance and compensation also carried.
Balance on hand last report.•.- ...·-···--·-·············-········-····-···--··········'··-.$ '.183.01
Lod~es

.
Receipts Duri1ig the Year
California Lodges ···-········.:..•.. ..;........- ....... ,,..........;..................,,.. .$ 20.4S
Other Lodges in U. S. ·········-························:............................. ~ .. 275.68
Blue Lodges ····················-···········-···········-·····································- 910.7S
3.00
Individual reimbursements ·······-············-············-·--························

sos

1,209.88

Total receipts ·····-·······················································-···-·····-··$1,692.89

f Cash commercial account ........._. .........$ 460.S7
Balance on hand ··- n· ··· .. ......... J Savings ....................................................$1,050,90
l_ Two P. G. & E. bonds ..........................$2,097.13
Long Beach: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Ward~ns of
each Lodge and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, the Secretary
who receives $150.00 per month and assistant $1S.OO. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $SOO.OO each. Compensation and auto insurance
are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand last report ............................................ -~...................$1,603:44
Receipts During the Year
Local Lodges per eapita.......................................,............ ~ .........$2,697.13
California Lodges ········································-··········-·········-···········-··
9S.OO
Other Lodges in U. $ .....____.....:,...........................:...-·~--·-·· 1,SOS.3S
Funeral reimbursi:ments ················--···························-·················· 277.SO
Interest ..............................................................................................
33.67

4,608.65

Total receipts ........... _ ............·--···--.....:.....................----···$6,212.09

507

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Federal excise tax .........................................................................
Miscellaneous .....................:..........................................................

Dis bursemen ts
California Lodges ·-···"~~..·····~·············--··········-········-···-··-·······-$ 115.00
Other Lodges in U. S.-......,.-,....··---·························•··-············-····· 1,493.62
Funerals .............................................,................................•.........._. 313.12
Contributed to Employment Service...........:.·-·-························· 250.00
Salaries ·························--································································-· 2,125.00
Rent ............-...................................................................................... 180.00
Insurance and bond ·································-·······················-··············
9.00
Telephone and telegraph ..............................................................
81.92
Postage ......................................................,.........................................
27.76
Printing and stationery ..................................................................
63.45
Auto expense ....................................................................................
60.00
Audit ..........................................................................._.....................
25.00
Miscellaneous ....................................................................................
31.22

Total disbursements .................................................................-$39,887.79
Balance on hand July 31, 1937.~·················-······'······:...........,,..,..'~••.,...•.••....:..•$ 4,122.05
Oakland and Berkeley: Board of Relief is composed of members from
each Lodge and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, a Secretary at
a salary of $2,012.50 per annum; Assistant Secretary, $600.00. Treasurer is
bonded in the sum of $2,000.00. Compensation and auto insurance are carried.
One automobile is used.
Balance on hand as per last report....................,...................................$11,938.91

· Total disbursements ····•···············-···•-........................................$4,775.09
Balance on hand July 31, 1937,................,..,...............;........................- ....,.........$1,437.00
· Los Angeles: Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge
and meets monthly. There are three paid employees, a Secretary at a salary of
$250.00 per month, a typist or clerk at a salary of $100.00 per month, and a field
man at a salary of $175.00 per month. The Secretary and the Treasurer are
bonded in the sum of $2,000.00 each. Fidelity insurance and carrier and compensation and auto insurance are carried. One· automobile is used.
Balance on hand last report...........·-·································-··-··············,$ 2,944.06
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California........•...•...:........................................$
60.15
California Lodges ..........................................,............................. 4,899.84
Other Lodges in U. S ....,...._..............~.--., ..........................- .. 20,683.33
Foreign Lodges ..........................................................,.................
285.21
Per capita assessment ................................................................ 15,137.25

41,065.78

Total receipts ....................:...........................................,.....•.....$44,009.84
Disbursemen ts
Unclassified ................~............--····-········-"···-··············-········$
70.93
California Lodges ....................................................:................. 4,722.02
Other Lodges in U. S ................................................................. 20,113.26
Foreign Lodges ..............................................................-.........
534.58
Contributed to Employment Service................................._....... 1,250.00
Funerals Committee service ...................................................... 2,743.37
Drugs ..........................................................................................._.
67.81
Salaries .......................................................................................... 7,073.44
Rent ................................................................................................
857.00
Insurance and bond ............................._.......................................
22.50
Telephone etc. ..............................................................................
514.19
Po~ta~e ·················:································•························-·········-····
316.05
Prmtmg and stationery ..............................................................
242.45
Furniture and equipment ·····························-·····························
25.75
C. U. R .......................-..................................................................
171.87
Travel ............................................................._.............................
127.69
Field representative expense ......................................................
504.27
Audit ·········<-·--······-·················--························-····················-····
100.00
Qearing House reports ·········-················--····-················---····188.56

7.83
234.22

Receipts Duritig the Year
Grand Lodge of California..........................................................$ 360.00
California Lodges ........................................................................ 4,160.43
Other Lodges in U. S ...............................-..- ....••..:........·-····-··· 3,601.77
Foreign Lodges ............................................................................ 1,210.00
Funeral reimbursements .............................................................. 268.00
Individual reimbursements .......................................................... 608.50
Interest ...................,.......................................................................... 220.86
Supporting Lodges as per capita.,..........•..,...............................~. 5,213.34
Miscellaneous ..................................................................................
95.38

15,738.28

"T otal receipts ·•.;..."..•...- ...,._............,................_._.......• _:,......$27,677.19
Disbursements
California Lodges ..................................,...............................- ..,...$4,469.79
Other Lodges in U. S .......: ....·--·-··-·····-.····."......:....•,.................. 3,200.69
Foreign Lodges ........................................-.................................... 1,21523
Funerals ............................................................................................ 347.50
Funerals Committee services ...................................................... 520.00
Individuals-donations ..................................................- ............ 375.50
Salaries .....................·-·······································-·······················-···· 3,660.00
Rent ................................................................................................- 300.00
Insurance and bond ····•····················--···········-····························v
61.26
Telephone and teleg_tapl\............................ _ ............:.................... 237.85
P ostage ............................................................................................
64.45
Printing and stationery ................................·-·····-·..·····················
29.32

¥£;·~::;~~~~~;-~-~~:~~~~~=-::~==-~~~=~~~::~ i~
Christmas donations ..........................................................-........
Miscellaneous ..................................................................................
Half interest De Soto ..................................................................
Half interest, typewriter ..............................................................
Niche Estate Jesse Howard..'-········-········-·············-·--············

22.50
42.21
226.36
36.72
9.58

· T otal disbursements ····························-·"·······..························$15,133.71
Balance on hand July 31, 1937................._...........~···-···..................................$12,54,3.48
Pasadena: Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge and
meetings are held as called. There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives a salary of $75.00 per month. T he Secretary is bonded in the sum of
$500.00. Auto insurance is carried. One automobile is used.

508

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF' CALIFORNIA

Balance on hand as per last rep0rt..........•.·-···-·-~-................:....- .....:..$ 641.12

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges _..,__··-:-····-··--····---····-······ .....-···············$ 15.00
Other Lo<iges in U. $ ..............·-··············-············---···········• 910.00
Per capita contributions ················-··········-············-····-················ 941.00

1,866.00

Tota!' receipts ·-·-······--.·---·······-··-·"'·-·····-·-,·······-···--$2,507.12
Disbursements
California Lodges -········-····--····"'--·····-····-·-··········---····-····$ 15.00
Other Lodges in U.S. ·-·········-··············---················-··········-···· 850.00
Salaries -··-·····-····-····......····-·····················-··-································ 899.25
Printing and stationery ..................................................................
5.67
Travel, Secretary to Grand Lodge..••·-···········-······-·-·•·..·····-··
40.00
10.00
10.08

Foreign Lodges ········································-······································
Funerals ................- ............................................................................
Contributed to Employment Service ........................................
Individuals-donations ....................................................................
Salaries ..............................................................................................
Telephone and telegraph ................................................................
Postage ····································-·- ·····················································
Printing and stationery ..................................................................
Office supplies ..................................................................................
Auto expense ·························-···································-····················
Travel ·................................................................................................
Audit .............•......................................................................................
Miscellaneous ...................·-·············-•··········································•···

509
332.50
603.75
200.00
237.00
900.00
62.83
14.03
5.15
19.30
104.43
25.00
20.00
2.00

~~:!1i;~~~-~-~-===:::::.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-::::::::::~

Total disbursements ........•..•...........:.........•--······················.,·····.$4,4Si'.83
Balance on hand July 31, 1937..............................•.............•...............................$2,()48.30

Total disbursements ···················•····-·······-············-·················:$1.BJO.OO
Balance on hand July 31, 1937............--............,...................;••.,...........:......•....$ 677.12

San Diego: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and
meets monthly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who received a salary
of $810.00 per year. Fidelity insurance and carrier is carried. One automobile
is used.
Balance on hand as per last reporL..............,.............:...........................$1,519.05

.

·

Richmond: Board of Relief is composed of officers of each Lodge and
meets at call of President. There are no paid employees.
Balance on hand as per last report... ....:....:..........................- •.................$ 30.63

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ····--··..····-·--··-·-...,--····-··-·-····-·-··············$

12.25

12.25

Total receipts ·······~-·-·-·-·····················-·-··..:·-··:----'•·..···'···--..$
DisbursetMnts
Individuals-donations "'······-··-··..····-···--·-·--······--···-:.••..$
2.25
Telephone .......,.,.._.···········--···················-·--········-·--··············-1.00
Postage ·~····":"··-······-..········--··································-·······-'············
1.00

42.88

Total disbursements ····-·········--····-··-····-·········...:...........:......$ , 4,25
Balance on hand July 31, 1937..'...................................m·····~--·······_:····-·······$ 38.63.
Sacramento: Board of Relief is composed of three members from each
Lodge. There are two paid employees, a Secretary and part time assistant. The
total salary is $870.00 per annum. The Secretary is bonded ·in the sum of
$500.00.
Balance on hand as per last rcpoti...·-·············•····-···········-······:.............$1,617.82

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge -··········-----··-······-····-·-----_:_...$ 30.00
California Lodges -·····-·- ·
·--······-············-····-~- 2,567.28
Other Lodges in U. S·---···--·---·~----··-········ 1,242.56
Foreign Lodges "··-··--······-·-·- ----·-----·-·-··-·····- 300.00
Funeral reimbursements ··········-····-································-·········· 626.36
Individual reimbursements ----···--·-..·-····-········--··----····
81.50
Interest ·'.:······-·-······---..··-········-·-···········-········--···-·-···..·····-···
40.61

.
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ··-···-·······-··r····-:...........-............,..................$1,888.21
Other Lodges in U. $ ..................................,............._....,................ 1,936.00
Foreign Lodges ····················································-·························· 158.73
Funeral reimbursements ·······································-······················· 1,004.93

4,987.87

Total receipts ...:............................._.............................................~.~.506.92

Disbursements
California Lodges ...........-:..............................~..._ .....,.................$ 299.00
Other Lodges in U. S.-..·-···-·······- ·····-···"······-·-·..················-· 2,047.84
Foreign Lodges ................................................................................
20.00
Funerals ····················································-······································· 862.67
Contributed to Employment Service...............................-......... 300.00
Salaries .............................................................................................. 720.00
Rent ················-·····-····-····································································
96.00
Telephone and telegraph..................................................................
37.12
Printing and stationery ..................................................................
.91
Office supplies ..................................................................................
.16
Auto expense ....................................................................................
72.00
Travel ·······················-·······································································
18.00
Audit ······································-················-················-······················
6.00
Taxes ··················-·······················-·····················································
1.54
Total disbursements ....................................
$4,481.24
Balance on hand July 31, 1937............................................................................$2,025.68
b . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . .·•••••••••

4,888.31

Total receipts ······---·······-·•""·-·--:--·-·-·-···········-·-····............$6,506.13
Disbursements
California Lodges ··-·············-·-•······-···-···--··-·························$1,005.58
Other Lodges in U. S. --·-······-····,.·-····-········--·························· 926.26

San Francisco: Board of Relief is composed of Master or representative
of each Lodge and meets monthly. There are two paid employees, a Secret~ry,
who receives a salary of $250.00 per month, and a typist or clerk, who receives
$40.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the sum of
$2,000.00 each. Fidelity insurance and carrier, and compensation insurance are
carried. One automobile is used.

510

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Balance on hand as per last report ........................................................$ 8,400.97

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of Calif.ornia......... ~ •.....~ ...........................c•••••••••••••• $' 288.07
California Lodges .... '. ..................................................................... 3,877.70
Other Lodges in U. $ ...............:.,..........:... ,.:,....~.:........................ 3,754.64
Foreign Lodges ...................................................................~ ........... 1,094.46
Assessments from Lodges, intere~t, etc............................... _...• 7,722.17

Dance ................................................................................................. .
Funeral reimbursements ................................................................. .
Individual reimbursements ............................................................

511
608.10
103.10
100.00

1,064.00

Total receipts ... :.................... ,.......................................~ ..............$1,268.80

16,737.04

Total receipts ..............................................................................$25,139'1

Dis bursemen ts
California Lodges .......................,.......,.:.... 0" ..................................$4,371.12
Other Lodges in U. S ........... ,........... ~ .............. ,.......................,,.... 3,572.67
Foreign Lodges .............................................................................. 1,294.56
Salaries ............................................................................................ 3,510.00
Rent .................................................................................:................ 360.00
Insurance and bottd....•.•.•.•.•..••.• ~ .......'.:............................. :.........:...
34.97
Telephone and tetegra11h .......................;•···········•........................... 172.60
Postage ............................ ,.......................... ,....................................
10.73
Printing and stationery ................................................................
6.44
Office supplies ........... ,............... _....................................................
89.52
Auto expense .................................................................................. 600.00
Audit ................................................................................................
35.00
Miscellaneous ............................ ,......................................................
44.31

214.50
189.02
240.00
180.00
8.31
5.00
32.28
5.00
31.50

Balance on hand July 31, 1937:.,,.,.......... ;••..•.•.•.••..,........,..;...,.... ., ...•..,........... .;$ 363.19

Balance on hand July 31, 1937..........................................................................$11,036.()1
Santa Barbara:
Balance on hand as per last report. ..................................:........................$

Dis bursemen ts
Other Lodges in U. S ...................................,...............,.•J .............$
Funerals ............................................................................................ ..
Funerals Committee services .................................................:..... .
Salaries ................................................................................................
Telegraph ............................................................ .'.............................
Postage ............................................................................................. .
Printing and stationery ................................................ :.................
. Office supplies ..................................................................................
Miscellaneous .....................................................................................

Total disbursements ......,...;..,.,.:.......,...........,, ............ ~......- ...... ,$ 905.61

Total disbursements ... ,............................................................. .$14,101.~

98.75

Receipts During the Year

Other Lodges in U. $~ .... ~ ..1•••: •• ,. .... , •• ,...,.,..... ~.................................$ 213.40
Individual reimbursements ...............................,............................ ' 27.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

240.90

T ot a1 rece1p
. t s •••.....•.. ,......................
·
" ,......,.•..•...,.................
,
,. <II 339 .65
,...
:·•·•··"'I'
Disbursements
Other Lodges in U. S ....~ ...... _.........,.,....-................,................ ,.~••• .$ 157.46
Salaries .................................'....................................................... :..... 120.00
Telephone and telegraph ..... ;............................................................
3.40
Office supplies ...................................................................................
1.44

Stockton: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and
meets monthly. There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who receives a salary,
including expenses, of $80.00 per annum. One auto is used.
Balance on hand as per last report.. .......·........ ,.:......................................$ 23.04

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ........................................................1........... , •••••• $1,135.00
Other Lodges to U. $ ............~., ......................... ,........................... 480.00

1,615.00

Total receipts ..................................................................... ,..........$1,638.04

Disbursements
California Lodges ..............,...............:,.~ ................~...., ...............,...$ 745.00
Other Lodges in U. S .....1.i:'""'l~ ............ o ..".......-."~-~··o..,...,... "'"~·"·u ....... , ....... ,. ... ,.. . . 652.00
Salaries and auto e;x:pense.............................................................. 150.00
29.80
Telephone and telegraph ...................................................:............
7.80
Postage ..............................................................................................
4.50
Printing and stationery..........................~ ........................................ .
1.50
Office supplies ................................................................................. ..
25.00
Christmas donations ....................................................................... .
Total disbursements ...........:.................... '-,.:.... ,...........................$1,615.60

Balance on hand July 31, 1937............... .:.,..:...,...,... ,;,...............,,.:,..........:••.•..•~......$
·

57.35

Santa Monica: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and
hold~ three meetings per month. There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who
receives $180.00 per annum. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the
amount of $500.00 each.
Balance on hand as per last repor,t.........................................................~ 204.60

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges, a$sessmeot ............... ,......................................$ 132.00
Other Lodges in U. S ......;....................................... ,.,...................... 121.00

Balance on hand July 31, 1937............... ,..............,;........: .•.,................~..... :\....,.•:•.$

22.40

San Jose: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens of five
Lodges and meets quarterly. There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives a salary of $50.00 per month. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded
in the amount of $500.00 each. Auto insurance is carried. One automobile is .used.
Balance on hand as per last report........ ,.......».....-r•······"··.............:...........$ 167.73

Receipts During the Year
Building & Loan Division.......... ~ ...................................................$ 23.86
25.50
California Lodges .......................................................................... ..
Other Lodges in U. $ .......:........, ...:.... ~ ..........:...,.......,...,................ 407.50
30.01
Miscellaneous ................................................................................... .

512

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ROCEEDINGS OF THE

Per capita -·-····································-········-············-······················
Interest ··········-········-···············-·········-············································

541.52
75.09

00000
QC"l~O

ir-4

q)

e

..

s

Total receipts .......•.............:..................:...·-············-·-·········-····-$1,2718

0
cr:1

s.

EUGENE
ELKUS,
ROBERT F. CALLENDER,
]AMES R. ERSKINE,

Report adopted.

$12,600.00
FRANK M. WISE,
FRANK TADE,

·

Committee:

At 12 :OS o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00 o'clock
this afternoon.

·~ O
·~O

~ :~g

..

........

ll!I ..
~ I~ I

k"iO~

CDOOOO

.... ....

·~

•<C

:o
,..,.

~

•o
•o

:o
.o
,.,

......
"'0. :o :c0
0
•O
0 . •O

~~

~

iCI

....

..

~~0\ ~
0

•O
•Q

:M')
,co

• C"I

""

•o •co
· o •co
:~

. a>

:o
......

•oo
•oo

:oo
.oo
oC"IO

...40c:ic:iaicr)ICM

"'

t-.. O>~C"IM')
,_
....

.."' ..
..
0
0

•

0>" :

~g~;1:::~g~

0

~

0

:~

•00

0
0

·au
"'
::a"'

•O
•O

.o .C"I

... ·"'

.... 00

·0

~-

OOC'I')
OOC'I')

The. Employment Service
We are modest when we tell you again that the Masonic Employment Service in this jurisdiction continues to make an outstanding contribution to Masonry.
Its growth in efficiency and number of placements is a credit to the enthusiasm
of the men behind this splendid constructive work. The opportunity for service
in this field is unlimited. The Masters and Wardens of our Lodges should
interest themselves in employment by urging employers to use the service, and
by the appointment of active Employment Committees to function within the
Lodges.
We shall not burden you with statistics except to say that the six employment offices continue to make progress, each in its own way. In some there are
real problems involved, and your Board of Control has been asked to advise and
counsel with the local officers, to the end that better results will be possible.
A comparative Financial and Statistical Report is submitted herewith (opposite page), and made a part of this report. It is worth your while to study it.

Respectfully submitted,

,l:l'J O>

~:

Oe-10

~ ~ffS~

Balance on hand July 31, 1937"--·- .....~--..······-··~·.------················-:····•-··;..$ 167.56

San Francisco ....~.-.....................- ·...:--:...........-~-.....- .•.:.$ 2,800.00
East Bay ...._......................:................................................. 2,400.00
Los Angeles ·············-···········--··································-········ 4,300.00
San Diego .................................................... _..............:.......
SOD.DO
Long Beach .......................................................................... 2,000.00
Sacramento .....................,.........................,..........................
600.00

:.n

.l:l')Q

....

C"l~

Total disbursements ...................- ...............,..............~·····-········$1,104~

Appropriations for Employment .
Requests from the six employment offices for funds to assist in carrying on
this work were substantially the same as for 1937. Each request was considered
on its merit, and based on its general policy and experience this board recommends to the Finance Committee the following appropriations for 1938 :

m :oc::>

C'D

c'i:si cici~

Disbursements
California Lodges -·········-'···-···.:.:...____..__..;,.,___.........- ..........$ 25.50
Other Lodges in U. S...............,:;...- ..........:......- ...-··-········-..····-· 430.00
Salaries ·······-·························································----·-------............ _. 600.00 .
2.67
Telegraph ········--························-········..·········-·································
10.00
Audit .................................................·-····--···········'········-··················
·.60
Interest deposited ························-········..····························T······-·
35.48
Miscellaneous ··································································-················

.o

co

.-t

o~ g~~g ~

1,104.08

.oo

0

"""'

t-OC¢00,.-tt-C"ll0

~g~~~~g~

0

td~~..,;..,;tN.d•

"'
~

..... 0)0') . . . . . .

0

,...OC"IO)C:OO)C"ICQ
~

.......

~~~~~~~~
000•000..-4

..

..... 0'°0')<0Ct:ili()•
<OCt:IC"l.-.C"I

•

oo ....

· 1.,,cO I"'..
•

: :

00

.d.,..400

.....

• •

co

••

C"l.,

~""~

••

""1

"""'

""1 t--00

513

514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

515

announcement leaves the record incomplete and results in much unnecessary
correspondence.
·

Jn ~ranb JLobge
AFTERNOON SESSION
Thursday, October 14, 1937.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :00 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
Past Grand Chaplain Edgar F . Gee appeared and was
greeted by his brethren in a most enth~siastic manner.

REPORTS OF GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
There have been referred to your Committe on Grievances the trial
records and petitions for restoration set forth in the report of the Grand
Secretary.
Before reporting on these several matters, your committee desires to make
a few general observations and recommendations to the craft.
Sixteen proceedings referred to this committee were brought under Section 192 of our Constitution. This section, as you will recall, permits of automatic expulsion when the accused has been convicted of a crime classified ·as
a felony, imprisoned pursuant to such conviction, and upon notice of intended
action, fails to demand a trial before the Lodge. The experience of the past
several years has demonstrated the wisdom of that section. We would again
recommend that in proceedings under Section 192 the prepared forms be used
in order that no question may arise as to the sufficiency of the several acts
required in such a proceeding. Great care should be exercised in the giving
of the required notice. It should be sent to the last known place of address
and not necessarily to the address appearing on the Lodge records. If, at the
time of the giving of the required notice, the accused is in prison, such notice
must be sent to him at the place of imprisonll)ent.
It is interesting to note that in three instances which are covered by this
report, the accused demanded trials before trial commissions, and in each of
these three cases such trials resulted in acquittals, even though the accused
in each case had been convicted in courts of the land and imprisoned pursuant
to such conviction. Your committee is in hearty and unanimous accord with
.
the results in each of these three matters.
Two other cases have been presented in which demands for trials were
made and were later withdrawn by the accused. In each case the Lodge proceeded to declare the expulsion as though no demand for trial had been made.
.This was the proper procedure and your committee is in entire accord therewith.
.
Section 205 of our · Constitution provides in part that the result of the
trial shall be announced to the Lodge in the presence of its members only,
at the next stated meeting after termination of the trial, and that such result
shall be recorded by the Secretary as the judgment of the Lodge. The minutes showing this action should be incorporated in the record transmitted to
the Grand Lodge. Failure to include a copy of the minutes showing such

During the past year the question has arisen as to whether a Lodge may
be relieved from furnishing to the Grand Lodge a transcript of the testimony
before the trial commission. The request is usually based upon the desire of
the Lodge to avoid the expense incident to the preparation of such transcript.
· Section 207 of the Constitution would seem to answer· the question. That
section reads in part as follows :
"In all cases, whether appealed or not, the Master shall cause the Secretary
to prepare a transcript of the record of trial, and immediately transmit it to
the Grand Secretary; together with information of the appeal intended, if any
there be."
It will be noted that the preparation of this trial record and its transmission to the Grand Secretary must be done in all cases. A formal ruling
of Grand Lodge in 1925, "Ross Diges.t ,'' paragraph 461, holds that the provisions of Section 207 are mandatory.
We would also call to your attention that the quoted portion of Section 207
provides that the transcript of the record of the trial shall be "immediately"
transmitted to the Grand Secretary. We mention this particularly because of
the fact that in a number of instances there has been considerable delay in
the preparation and transmission of these trial records. This has sometimes
resulted in the review o·f the trial record by Grand Lodge a year later than
would have ·been the case if the record had been promptly prepared and transmitted to the Grand Secretary, as .the Constitution requires.
It has also come to the attention of your commit~ee that in some instances
there has been great and unusual delay on the part of some Lodges in taking
further action on retrials where matters have been reversed by Grand Lodge
and remanded for retrial. For example: We have before us this year a
record (No. 921) in which the accused was expelled by his Lodge September
11 1933 by proceedings had under Section 192 of the Constitution. At its
co:nmunlcation in 1934 Grand Lodge reversed this expulsion, holdin'g that
Section 192 was not applicable because the accused had not been imprisoned,
as is required · before proceedings may be had under that section. At the .same
time Grand Lodge directed the Lodge to cause proper charges to be preferred
and a trial thereon had in proper manner. No further action was taken
thereon until June of 1937, a lapse of two and one-half years after Grand
Lodge had given its direction. While no specific time is ordinarily contained
in any such direction by Grand Lodge, we may respectfully suggest that all
directions by Grand Lodge to subordinate Lodges should be complied with expeditiously. In this same connection it may not be amiss to point out that any
such direction by Grand Lodge to retry case is mandatory and must be treated
as such by the Lodges. Where specific directions are given to a Lodge by
Grand Lodge as to a retrial, it is not within the discretion of the Lodge to
' disregard such instructions.
These several matters are called to the attention of Grand Lodge merely
by way of comment on the part of your committee, and we see no necessity
for any formal action there.on by this body.
We now proceed to report our recommendations upon the various trial
records.
Your committee has carefully reviewed each and all of the hereinafter
enumerated trial records. We beg leave to report that in each of these cases
your committee finds no irregularities of any importance ; the rights of the
accused appear to have been properly safeguarded and substantial justice
seems to have been done.

a

516

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Omnibus Report
No. 758, from Rising Light Lodge No. 397.
No. 875, from San Pedro Lodge No. 332.
No. 882, from H oward Lodge No. 37.
No. 900, from Liberty Lodge No. 299.
No. 901, from Oasis Lodge No. 664.
No. 902, from Apollo Lodge No. 396.
No. 905, from All States Lodge No. 593.
No. 906, from Azure Lodge No. 533.
No. 907, from Coronado Lodge No. 441.
No. 908, from Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482.
No. 909, from Greenleaf Lodge No. 670.
No. 910, from Palisades Lodge No. 637.
NG. 911, from Lebanon Lodge No. 495.
No. 912, from El Dorado Lodge No. 26.
No. 913, from Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598.
No. 915, from Traver Lodge No. 294.
No. 916, from Military Service Lodge No. 570.
No. 917, from La Habra Lodge No. 659.
No. 918, from La Cumbre Lodge No. 642.
No. 919, from Oxnard Lodge No. 341.
No. 920, from Fullerton Lodge No. 339.
No. 921, from Solano Lodge No. 229.
, No. 923, from San Joaquin Lodge No. 19.
No. 924, from Henry Knox Lodge No. 662.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the Trial Commissions and of the Lodge
as .shown by each of the foregoing trial records ·be, and the same hereby i:•
'
ratified, affirmed and approved.

Report adopted.
your ~ommittee on Grienvances, to which was referred Trial Record No.
9~2, m wh~ch th~ accused was found guilty and the penalty fixed at suspens1?n, and 1? :wh1~h an .appeal was taken, recommend that the action of the
tr~al comm1ss1on m findmg the accused guilty be, and the same is, hereby sustained and approved, but that the_ penalty ·be modified by expelling the accused
from all the rights and privileges of Masonry,

Report adopted.
In the matter of Trial Record No. 904, covering the case of a member
of Apollo Lodge No. 396, automatically expelled by that Lodge on January
5, 1937, w~ r~commend that the ~xpulsion of the accused, under Section 192 of
the C?nstitution, from all the rights and privileges of Masonry ,be, and the
same 1s, her~by ~pproved and affirm~d ; and that the demand of the accused
for a Masonic trial be and the same is hereby denied.

Report adopted.
In the matter of Trial Record No. 903, also covering the case of a member of Apollo Lodge No. 396, automatically expelled by that Lodge on January 5, 1937, we recommend that the expulsion of B. A. M., under Section

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

517

192 of the Constitution, from all the rights and privileges of Masonry be,
and the same is, hereby approved and affirmed.

Report adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record No.
914, from Livingston Lodge No. 658, find that in this case the accused presented a petition for the degrees of Masonry to Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 on
November 29, 1932. At a subsequent Stated Meeting of the Lodge the accused
was rejected and notified thereof, and his fee returned. On August 29, 1935,
the accused presented a petition for the degrees to Livingston Lodge No. 658,
and in answer to the question No. 8, "Have you ever presented a petition to
any Masonic Lodge? If so, when and to what Lodge?" he replied "No." In
answer to question No. 9, "Have you ever been rejected by any Masonic Lodge?
If so, when and by what Lodge?" He replied, "No." In answer to question No.
14, "Have you read all the questions contained in the foregoing petition and
are all of the answers thereto in your own handwriting? And do you, upon
your honor, declare the foregoing statements to be true?" he replied "Yes." At
the trial the accused stated that he did not know that he had been rejected. Notwithstanding serious charges of perjury against the accused, the trial commission found him not· guilty. The records show unmistakably that the finding of
not guilty is unsupported by the evidence ; that suspension is the least punishment that should be administered under the facts disclosed. Your committee
therefore offers the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Livingston Lodge No. 658 in acquitting the
accused of unmasonic conduct be and the same is hereby modified; that accused be, and he is hereby found guilty on the charge with which he was
accused, and that the punishment ·be fixed at suspension.

Report adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances has carefully considered the petition of
J. T. B., formerly a member of Searchlight Lodge No. 567, for restoration
to all the rights and privileges of Masonry; we find that a sufficient showing
has been made to warrant the granting of the petition for reinstatement ; we
therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That J. T. B., formerly a member of Searchlight Lodge No. 567,
be restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry as a member at large.

Report adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition for
restoration to all the rights and privileges of Masonry of J . C. P ., who was
expelled for unmasonic conduct by San Francisco Lodge No. 360, April 6,
1931, recommend that the petition of the accused for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby denied without prejudice. Report adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record No.
872, from Coronado Lodge No. 441 , recommend that the action of Coronado
Lodge No. 441 , in suspending the accused be, and the same is hereby changed
to expulsion.

Report adopted.

518

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON POLI CY AND
GENERAL. PURPOSES
Personnel of Committees
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The .Grand Master •. in his annual message, directed our attention to an
er.ro: w~1ch was com.m1tted at the last communication, which resulted in the
ehminahon from Sect.10n 27 of the Constitution of the provision that a Master
and Warden ·be appo1?ted to. serve on certain committees, and recommending
the ~mendment of said Section 27 to restore thereto the provision for the
appointment of ~ Master and Warden on each of the standing committees.
. We co·n cur in t?e Gra_nd Master's recommendation, and move that the
Jurisprudence Committee will present the recommended legislation.

Report was adopted and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Over draft s
Charles ~· Cooper has cause~ to be introduced a resolution for the amendme?t of Sect~on 87 of the Constitution by eliminating that part of the section
which authorizes over~rafts. As a matter of policy we approve the resolution
~nd rec?dmme_nd that 1t be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence for
its cons1 erahon.
The report was adopted and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence
who recommended that the first paragraph of Section 87 of th c t't t' '
be amended to read as follows :
e ons I u ion

B?.

Sec.
A Lo.dge must retain the control of its own funds and r
rt
It cannot .in~or~orate or intrust any of its funds or property to. a co~p=ti~
formed w.1thm. itself. A Lodge may hold title to all of its assets with the
powe.r to acqmre, ~ortgage, sell and convey property and to invest and reinves.t its funds ; or, 1t may through trustees provided for in a standing resolu~10n, .who shall. always be under its control, ho.Jd, mortgage, sell and otherwise dispose of its p'.operty and funds, which may be invested and reinvested
as the Lodge shall direct.

!Jo

~0£~ except that dispens~ by ~he charity committee and that due
~e shall ·be drawn without its express consent appearing on the
e ran
record, except m extreme cases of Masonic necessity or charity.
th

The report w~s adopted and Section 87 was accordingly
amended by unammous vote.
·
Relief
At_ the last ~nnual communication Brother Wesley Kergan presented a
resolut.1on proposing amendments to Section 90 and 163 of the c n t't t'
and this matter .was postpon~d to this communication to offer time f~/ ~ ~t~~n,
by your Co~m1ttee on Policy and General Purposes of the general subi'ecyt
matter of relief.
We h~ve not be~n able to frame a fo;mula on the subject satisfactor to

t~e c~mm1ttee, and instead of presenting an unsatisfactory formula we t~ink

t at r amendment to Sections 90 and 163 a substantial improvement can ·be
m~de m our la~, that the result intended ·by the resolution of Brother K

will be accomplished.

ergan

The said se:tio~s. gr~w out of decisions by Grand Masters which were
more all-~mbracm~ in. their verbiage than was probably necessary or intended
The charitable obligations of Masons are carefully restricted so that an un~

519

reasonable and overly burdensome requirement need not be met. The Lodge
in matters of relief is the agent or almoner of the members, doing on their
behalf those acts of kindness that cannot be done by a member, or that is
more conveniently and satisfactorily performed by the Lodge, acting for and
in behalf of its members collectively. No good reason appears for requiring
a higher and more extensive duty of the Lodge than is required of its members.
Yet Section 90, ·b y its terms, demands of a Lodge an extraordinary sacrifice
on its part if calls for relief exhaust all its resources. During the "depressions" many Lodges would have become ·b ankrupt had it seen to it that "all
the needy brethren of its own membership and neighborhood are not supposed
to want, or to be made a burden to others." Section 163 purports to give to a
Master Mason, his widow and orphans, when in distress, the right to ask
for "and receive" relief from .the Lodge, without qualification as to the ability
of the Lodge, the merits of the case, or the extent of demands ·being made on
the Lodge by others for its succor and help.
Your committee is of the opinion that the drastic requirements of those
sections, in themselves, m.illify the force of the law, and that the sections
should be amended to state a just, generous and reasonable rule. It therefore
recommends, as a matter of policy, that the requirements of Section 90 he
modified by amendment to provide that "Each Lodge, according to its circumstances and ability, shall see to it that the needy brethren of its own membership and neighborhood are not suffered to want or to be made a burden to
others." And that Section 163 be amended to provide that relief asked of a
Lodge be given by the Lodge in accordance with its ability.
Your committee further recommends that this matter be referred to the
Jurisprudence Committee to formulate and present to Grand Lodge proper
amendments to Sections 90 and 163, embodying said policy.

Grand Lodge approved the report. It was then referred t o
the Committee on Jurisprudence, which reported back recommending that Section 90 be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 90. Each Lodge shall see to it according to its circumstances and
ability that the needy brethren of its own membership and neighborhood are
not suffered to want or to be made a burden to others. It shall refund to
any Masonic Lodge in whose behalf the relief is granted all moneys expended
for its own needy members, not to exceed twenty-five dollars in any one case,
unless the excess ·be authorized by the Master of the Lodge or Board of
Relief in the jurisdiction. It must relieve its own members, their widows and
orphans, when in distress, regardless of their place of residence.

Grand Lodge concurred in the report and Section 90 w as
accordingly amended as above set out by unanimous vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence also reported back Section
163, recommending the amendment prop.o sed by the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes be approved and Section 163 of
the Constitution was amended, by unanimous vote, to read:
Sec. 163. Every Master Mason in good standing, his widow and orphans,
when in distress, has and have the right to ask for and receive relief from
the Lodge of which such Master Mason is, or was a member, or from the
Lodge within whose jurisdiction he is, or they, or any of them may be, in
accordance with its ability, or from any Master Mason able to bestow the
same.
Salary of Grand Secretary
At the Annual Communications of 1934, 1935 and 1936 there were referred
to your committee resolutions by Brother Mallachowitz fixing the salary of
the Grand Secretary at $5,000.00 per annum for the services performed by him.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

520

b~fo:e us and

These resolutions were not adopted. The same resolution is again
we recommend that the same be referred to the Conunittee on Finance.

Adopted.

·

11

M W~ al~o reco~mend that the resolution now again introduced by Brother
$2~ o~c bow1tz ~~~tlve to the repeal of the. law providing for the payment of
•
Y an a 1ate for the Masonic Homes be not adopted.

Adopted.
Tenure of Office of Grand Secretary

th

form,
rother Mallachowitz of Caledonia Lodge again submits a resolution in
to the same effect, as the resolutions he introduced in 1935 and

19 6• provi mg that the term of the Grand Secretary be fixed at six years and
~

-~~d

f

or. one term only. The Grand Lodge rejected his former resolutions on this

sfbie~t and your committee is stil~ of the opinion that this Grand Lodge should
e feet ~ts office[s annually, as provided by the Constitution, and that the matter
w om ~o e ect should be left to the wisdom and pleasure of Grand Lod e at

?

itst redcurrmdg Annual Communications. We recommend that the
no a opte .

resolutio~ be

Report adopted.
Time of Payment to Representatives
Brother Mallachowitz of Caledonia Lodge submitted a resolution that the
P~ of ri;;:ibers be postp?ned until the installation of the newly elected Grand
~dv~e:ss.l . e s~me re5?lu~1on was presented in 1936 and at that time we reported
not be ea~~patend. aatndth1s time we adre of the opinion that the resolution should
,
so recommen .

Report adopted.
Pay of Representatives
in l~~o~~~r l~~l=chowitz. of Cale?o.nia Lodge introduced into this Grand Lodge
the Grand Lodge ~::luti~n Pt_rov1dbmg1· th:1t the pay of representatives attending
.
mumca ions e 1m1ted to the "exact cost" instead of th
by t?e
on Pay of Members as provided for

3

~~c~~~~s ~sce;tamed

~ommittee

i~

~r~~~~::!i~:t~:::F£1;fe~~edHaed;e~~ef;~~ ;~~s~~~~ut\~~ss~~~ t~:S~~~t~~~~
A further consideration of the resolution did not elicit n

f t

::~~ ~~:~~: ~e~~:~:no~o~~to~~~~t~d~n the subject and, the~e~or:~ w~\:0g~~
Report adopted.
Investment of Funds
A committee of Las Palma L d N 366 ·
amendment of Section 87 of t~e ~ g\·~·.
mtrodu~ed a r~solution for the
1

~d~~ t~~ts funds in "Fe_de~al ins~;:d bu~f;in~ a~~r7c:!nt~:s~:~:::~~; ~he;
0

to1$5 000 00 ':~7 of the _bu1!5d~n~ and loan associations are insuring deposits up
' · ,
. are ~aymg 10 interest on such deposits.
Yfur committee 1~ aware that certificates of building and loan associat"
were ormerly. legal investments f9r savings banks but that such certific~t"ess
'
d o not now enjoy that status.
Your committee is also aware th t
b "Id"
provide a sound investment, but it do:s :O~~l~~eu~~:n: loa~ ~~sociations
proper de~sitary of monies that are to be used within a ~~o~ tim:m o~r~ha
payment w ereof upon demand, or even of short notice is to be co~fidentl;

521

expected. Even the fact of insurance, as applied to these certificates, may require
a delay of several years befor e the insurer makes good a loss.
Your committee is not informed that F ederal building and loan associations
are all superior to good associations organized under the laws of California.
We are of the opinion, also, that the promise of a high rate of interest by
any institution during this period of abnormally low interest rates is a matter
that one holding trust funds should bear in mind in seeking a safe ,investment.
Without the slightest reflection upon any building and loan association,
and with the belief that a reasonably prudent business man in the management
of his own private investment would give favorable consideration to the
certificates of a sound association, it is the opinion of your committee that the
present rule requiring investments in securitie~ legal for savings banks is
salutary, and should not be broadened.
We recommend that the resolution be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Social Security
The Grand Master in his annual message directed our attention to the fact
that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue has ruled that Masonic Lodges
are not exempt from the provisions of the Federal Social Security Act.
An effort is being made in many quarters to secure an exemption for fraternal organizations from the burdens imposed by this Act. And if such efforts
are successful we will accept the law and regulations as the proper rule for
our Lodges and this Grand Lodge to follow.
It may be that we would be misguided in any effort to escape the taxation
required by the Act, and thereby deprive our employees from the benefit of the
Act. W e think that many older deserving Masons are employed by our Lodges,
and that it would be beneficial to some of them if they had the protection of
the Act in their old age, or during a period of unemployment.
The Grand Master makes no specific recommendation, and this comment by
us is made because of the reference of the subject matter to this committee.

Report adopted.
Masonic Publications
The Grand Master in his annual message very pertinently commented on
certain abuses that had come to his attention, arising out of the commercial
aspects and practices of those who publish Masonic periodicals.
Your committee is advised that this is no new subject, and that complaints
have been made from time to time that the methods of obtaining advertising
were in some cases of a questionable nature. None of these publications have
the sponsorship of this Grand Lodge, and none of them are under the control,
directly or indirectly, of th e Grand Master or the Grand Lodge. T he warning
note sounded in the Grand Master's message should be ample notice to all persons using the word "Masonic" in their commercial enterprises that a continuation of abuses and complaints will certainly result in affirmative action being
taken by this Grand Lodge to correct them. Advertisers do rtot always know
that a publication is a purely private commercial enterprise, independent of
the Grand Lodge or of the Lodges. Masonry should not be discredited by anyone
because of the unwise or unethical acts of al} individual operating outside and
beyond the scope of its authority and responsibility. However, the Masonic
institution owes it to itself to maintain its dignity and its reputation, and if
the necessity arises it will not be remiss in checking abuses and practices that
are to its detriment.

Report adopted.

522

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Life Membership Funds
Charles R. Cooper has introduced a resolution proposing amendments to
Sections 42 and 129 of the Constitution to authorize the withdrawal from the
Life Membership Fund upon the death of a Life Member of the amount paid
into the fund by him, which authorization would be retroactive in its operation ;
and, provided further, that in the event of the dissolution of a Lodge the assets
of the Life Membership Fund of such Lodge should be disposed of by Grand
Lodge in accordance with the pro rata interest of the living Life· Members, and
that the interest in said fund of each living Life Member shall be applied by
Grand Lodge toward the payment of Life Membership in the Lodge with which
he affiliates, or toward the payment of dues therein, as he may direct. In the
event of the failure of a Life Member to affiliate within six months, his pro
rata interest in said fund shall revert to and be retained by Grand Lodge.
The resolution providing that on the death of a Life Member that "the
amount standing against his name in the Life Membership Fund shall revert to
the general funds of the Lodge," is a subject matter that was before us at the
Annual Communication of 1936. At that time we reported: "That the committee
is of the opinion that Life Membership Funds are not earned by a Lodge at the
time the Life Membership is taken out, nor are they earned by the Lodge at any
time during the member's life. Those funds are to pay a member's dues. They do
not ordinarily realize to the Lodge an income that is as large as the dues· there
is a loss to the Lodge in dues every year. That loss is made up by the fa~t that
the fund is permanent, and no part is paid out at the time of the death of
a Life Member. It is not an earned fund; it is earning money for the Lodge
every year, and is a trust fund which should not be dissipated." The amendment
was not adopted by Grand Lodge.
Upon further consideration of the subject matter, your committee is still
of the opinion that no part of the principal of the Life Membership Fund should
be withdrawn, but that the same should be kept in perpetuity for the benefit of
the Lodge.
Your committee has given careful consideration to the resolution, the purpose of which is to protect Life Members in the event of the dissolution of. the
Lodge in which they hold such membership, and is in full sympathy and accord
with the proposers of the resolution as to the propriety of protecting Life Members of a Lodge whose charter has been suspended, forfeited or revoked. Your
committee, however, does not approve of the method proposed for the accomplishment of this purpose.
That this matter may have the proper consideration by this Grand Lodge,
your committee offers the following resolution:
Resolved, That Section 129 of the Constitution be amended by adding
thereto the following :
"In the event of the dissolution of the Lodge the assets in the Life Membership Fund of such Lodge, if any, shall be delivered to the Grand Treasurer,
who shall hold the same as a trust fund pending the disposition thereof. The
Grand Lodge shall determine the interest of each living Life Member in said
fund, and the interest of Grand Lodge therein, on a just and equitable basis,
and such determination when made shall be final and conclusive. The Grand
Treasurer shall distribute said fund, or the proceeds of a sale thereof, in
accordance with the determination of Grand Lodge."
And, be it further resolved, That Section 42 of the Constitution be amended
to read as follows :
"In case of the dissolution of a Lodge the Grand Secretary or some
brother by him duly authorized, shall at once proceed to receive its funds on
hand, except its Life Membership Fund, collect its outstanding dues, dispose

523

of its jewels, furniture and other property of every kind in such manner as
shall seem to him most judieious; and he shall place the proceeds thereof, after
the payment of all just debts and necessary expenses, among the funds of
the Grand Lodge."
Be it further resolved, That Section 38 of the Constitution be amended
by adding thereto the following : "4th. From that part of the Life Membership
Funds of a dissolved Lodge as may be allocated to it, pursuant to the provisions
of Section 129 . . ."
Be it further resolved, That Section 134 of the Constitution be amended
to read as follows :
"The surrender or forfeiture of the Charter of a Lodge, when declared by
the Grand Lodge, shall be conclusive upon the Lodge and its members, and
all its funds, jewels, furniture, dues and property of every kind, except its Life
Membership Fund, shall be disposed of as provided in Section 42, and its Life
Membership Fund, if any, shall be disposed of as provided in Section 129."
Your committee respectfully recommends that the resolution by Brother
Cooper be not adopted. Your committee further recommends that as a matter
of policy the Life Membership Funds of a dissolved. Lodge shall not revert in
whole to this Grand Lodge, but shall be distributed in a just and equitable manner among the living Life Members and this Grand Lodge. Your committee
further recommends that the resolutions offered by it, proposing to amend
Sections 38, 42, 129 and 134 of the Constitution, be referred to the Committee
on Jurisprudence.

The report was adopted and referred to the Committee on
Jurisprudence, w hich reported back recommending the adoption
of the proposed amendment as set out above; and Sections 38,
42, 129 and 134 of the Constitution were thereupon amended by
a five-sixth vote.
Remission of Dues
Bro. Henry K. Friedberg, of Traver Lodge No. 294, proposes an amendment to Section 128 of the Constitution, by adding after the word "them" at
the end of the fourth sentence, the following: " . . . . or having attained the age
of seventy years."
The purpose of the amendment is to place members having attained the age
of seventy years in the same position with reference to advance remission of
dues as members who have been in good standing in this jurisdiction for forty
years or more. The remission in both cases to be in the sound judgment of the
Lodge, and granted by reason of misfortune, inability, or other good cause.
Your committee on Jurisprudence has signified its approval of the form
of the amendment as proposed, and your committee recommends the adoption
of the resolution.
The report was adopted and Section 128 was accordingly amended by a
five-sixth vote, to read as follows :
Section 128. No Lodge shall charge or collect as its annual dues from
members less than nine dollars. The only receipt for dues to be used by the
Lodge shall be a uniform one prepared by the Grand Secretary and sold by
him. Dues shall commence with the first day of the month next following the
conferring of the third degree, or the election to meinbership in the case of
affiliation where the <limit is filed with the application, or in the event that the
<limit is filed following election to membership by affiliation, then with the first
day of the month next following such filing. No Lodge shall remit the dues

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

524

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of its members or any of them for any stated period or in advance; but it may
annually remit the accrued dues of those of its members who render special
service for the Lodge or who are unable to pay them. provided, nevertheless,
that by special resolution, applicable only to the particular member involved, a
Lodge may, in advance or otherwise, remit the dues of any member who shall
have been a member in good standing in this jurisdiction for forty years or
more, or having attained the age of seventy years, and who in. the sound judgment of the Lodge, should, by reason of some misfortune, inability or other
good cause, be exempt from the payment of dues. No Lodge shall levy any
extra assessment on its members.
Liquor
Brother J. W. Eddy, Past Master of Paso Robles Lodge No. 286, proposes
a substitute for Section 129-A of the Constitution, to provide that no Lodge
shall receive a petition for degrees of Masonry from one who is engaged as
principal or agent in the business of manufacturing, wholesaling or retailing
liquor of any alcoholic content whatever as a beverage, and providing further
that a Mason who hereafter engages in such practice ·or business shall "ipso
facto stand expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry."
Your committee recommends that the resolution be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Hospital Group Insurance
Brother John E. Roberts, Master of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625, and
other members of said Lodge, have proposed a resolution relative to the subject
of hospitalization for Masons, and have asked that a special committee of this
Grand Lodge be appointed to make a study of the subject.
It is the opinion of your committee that the individual members of a Lodge,
or of a group of Lodges, could form a hospital insurance group, and thereby
secure all the benefits that would accrue from having this Grand Lodge, or any
of its subordinates, sponsor and operate such a plan. If an insurance group is
formed it should not use .the word "Masonic" as a part of its name or designation. This being the case, there is no need for the committee asked for by this
resolution. Therefore, we recommend that it be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Masonic Education
Your Committee on Policy and Gene~al Purposes is pleased that at long
last a definite plan of Masonic .education which has more than a reasonable
chance of succes.s has been developed and reported by the Committee on Masonic
Education.
The committee asks that the Lodge system of education outlined by it in
its succinct but informative report be adopted by this Grand Lodge. And this
committee recommends the adoption of such Lodge system of Masonic education.

Report adopted.
Old Age Security
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California in their
annual report called the attention of this Grand Lodge to the fact that under
the law of California many persons residing in the homes are entitled to old
age pensions.
They further call our attention to the fact that the acceptance of payment
from guests in the home would constitute a new. practice in the conduct of
the home. Ueretofore we have cared far those who were dependent. If old

525

age pensions are paid, many · of our guests in the home would not be wholly
dependent, and in many cases might be independent.
The Trustees recommend that this Grand Lodge instruCt them to permit
recipients of old age pensions to remain in the Masonic home.
Since this matter will require discrimination and discretion in each individual case, it is the opinion of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
that the Trustees of the Masonic homes be authorized in their sound discretion
to permit such recipients of old age pensions ~s· may desite to remain in the
homes, to do so; and we recommend the adoption of such a policy.

Report adopted.
Accounts
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the resolutions introduced by the Committee on Accounts, to amend Sections 37-E and
·
•
37-K of the Constitution.
The sections provide that the accounts of the Board of Control and of the
Masonic Homes Endowment Board be approved by the Grand Master. The
reason for the exceptions in the matter of accounting made in connection with
these two Boards is that an appropriation is I!4lde by Grand Lodge for their
respective needs, and the amounts thereof are turned over to· the Boards in ·a
lump sum through a warrant drawn by the Grand Master· and Grand Secretary
on the Grand Treasurer. The Committee on Accounts audit the payment by
Grand Lodge, and determine whether the same is made in accordance with the
authority given by Grand Lodge. When these funds have been received by the
respective Boards they are expended, subject to the approval of the Grand
Master, and in the annual reports of the Boards, an accounting is given to the
Grand Lodge, and submitted for its approval or rejection.
,'
Your committee is of the opinion that in the tw.o cases specified it ·is not
improper for Grand Lodge to make an exception from its salutary general rule
submitting the propriety of expenditures to the Committee on Accounts for
approval.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
The report of the committee failed of adoption:; and the mat~

ter was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, which
committee reported, recommending the adoption of the proposed amendment. They failed however to receive the necessary five-sixth vote and the amendment did not prevail.
A Proposed Prohibitory Regulation
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under consideration the resolution submitted by Riverside Lodge No. 635, requesting Grand
Lodge "to adopt a regulation prohibiting the use of Masonic temples or any
part thereof for meetings of either employers or employees, striking or otherwise, for the discussion of matters growing out of or calculated to lead to
strikes, lockouts or other like political, industrial or labor disputes."
Your committee believes that the action requested by the resolution is
unnecessary and of doubtful wisdom. The sub-letting of Masonic temples or
halls for meetings of outside groups of any character is a matter properly within
the control of Lodges and temple associations, whose knowledge of local conditions and whose prudence should be the safest guides.
·
Your committee, there.fore, .recommends that the resolution of Riverside
Lodge No. 635 be not adopted.

Report adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

526

System of Teaching the Ritual
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under consideration a resolution submitted by Whittier Lodge No. 323, and Greenleaf Lodge
No. 670, both of Whittier, and Paso Robles Lodge No. 286 reciting that in the
judgment of their officers and members "the present system of teaching the
ritual has not proved satisfactory." The resolution requests Grand Lodge to
"restore the old system of a full time Grand Lecturer with an adequate salary.''
Such tests as have been made of sentiment among constituent Lodges with
respect to the relative merits of the two systems have been inconclusive. The
so-called new system was adopted after the death of Bro. Thomas J. Baker of
blessed memory, and has been continued from year to year on an experimental
ba~s. Its sponsors and adherents believe that, in general, it is working more
satisfactorily than the old system. They recommend that it be continued in
operation for another year. Your committee believes that this recommenda~ion
should be accepted, but offers, on its own part, the suggestion that at its annual
communication in 1938 Grand Lodge should definitely determine under which
syst.em it prefers to proceed.
Your committee therefore recommends that no action be taken on the
resolution of these Lodges at this annual communication, and that the so-called
new system remain in effect for the coming Grand Lodge year.

Report was adopted.
Peace Day
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under consideration a resolution submitted by Arcadia Lodge No, 547, proposing "that October
8th of each year be set aside and designated 'Peace Day' and used for the
purpose of promoting peace, throughout the world." The resolution states a
belief "that if each Masonic Lodge throughout the world put forth greater
effort in keeping with the ideal of world peace, such ideal would be attained."
Your committee is, of course, in full accord with the ideal of world peace,
11n ideal to which all of us are devoted, but doubts the efficacy of this proposal.
Masonry has been destroyed by the Communist governments of Russia and
Spain, the Fascist government of Italy, and the Nazi government of Germany,
and is without appreciable influence in China and Japan. Its foothold under the
radical government in France is insecure. These are the countries, with England,
now most prominent upon the theatre of events which may make for peace or
war. The issue in these circumstances, and probably in future circumstances,
will be decided through the play of forces in no wise controllable by our con. stituent Lodges or by this Grand Lndge.
Your committee sees no objection to such peace ·observances as individual
Lodges may from time to time wish to hold, but is persuaded that the setting
apart of a day to be formally observed annually by all Lodges in this Grand
.JurisdiC:tion is unnecessary.
We therefore recommend that the proposal contained in the resolution of
Arcadia Lodge No. 547 be not adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Second: That on the adoption of a resolution or resolutions by said subordinate Lodge it sha.11 be the duty of the Secretary to file a copy thereof,
properly attes~ed, with the office of the Grand Secretary not less than sixty
(60) days prior to the first day of the subsequent annual communication of
Grand Lodge.
. ~hird: That it shall be ~andatory on the p~rt of the Grand Secretary to
submit a copy of all resolutions so filed, or abridgement thereof setting out
th~ salie~t points of inten.ded legislation, to every. Lodge in the jurisdiction
within thirty (30) days prior to the first day of annual communication.
Fourth: .T hat the voting power be and is hereby vested, exclusively, in the
delegate or delegates of the respective subordinate Lodges; each Lodge having
one vote.
Fifth: That a majority of votes so cast shall prevail.
Sixth: That Sections twenty-one (21) to twenty-five (25) inclusive of
Article six (6) of the Constitution of Grand Lodge be and are he~eby
repealed,
Seventh: That all Laws, Rules and Regulations of Grand Lodge, in conflict with this Resolution be and are hereby rescinded.
The Grand Lodge of California is "'the Supreme Masonic Power and
Authority. in this StaJe, possessing all the attributes of sovereignty and government, le~1slative, executive and judicial, limited only by a strict adherence to
th.e ~cient Landma~ks ~f the Order, and by the provisions of its own Constitution and Regulah?ns (Const., Sec. 7). It cannot, therefore, with propriety
and due regard for its powers, consent to such limitations as are suggested
by the foregoing resolution.
Your committee believes that insofar as may be practical, information with
supplied by the Grand Secretary to
~o.n~htuent . Lo~ges m advanc~ of Annual Communications ; but the right to
imttate legislation and act with reference to the same is inherent in Grand
Lodge and may not properly be surrendered.
respe~t to proposed_ legislation should be

Your committee therefore recommends that the resolution submitted by
Ojai Lodge be not adopted.
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY,
WILLIAM A. SHERMAN,

ALBERT E. BOYNTON,
WILL H. FISCHER,
FRANK

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under consideration a resolution submitted by Ojai Lodge No. 663, providing:
First : That any and alt resolutions presented to Grand Lodge for consideration at its annual communication shall be sponsored by a majority vote of
approval of the membership of a subordinate Lodge of said Grand Lodge.

w. MIXTER,

RANDOLPH V. WHITING,

LAWRENCE

J. HALL,

ROBERT A. HANSON,

Committee.

Report adopted.
Time Limit on Submitting Resolutions

527

Report was adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF C~IFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE '

528

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the M:.

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the M:.

The Committee on Jurisprudence offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption :
Resolved, That Section 27 of the Constitution be amended to read as '
follows:
Sec. 27. The following standing committees shall be appointed by the
Grand Master at each annual communication just before the. close, viz.: On
Finance, on Accounts, on Grievances, on Correspondence, on Returns, on Pay
of Members, on Credentials, on Library, on By-Laws, on Charters, on Clandestine Masonry, on Grand Lodge Week Activities, to consist of seve~ memb~rs
each; on Policy and General Purposes, and on J urispruden;e, to co?s1st of mne
members each; the duties of which committees shall continue during the :>:ear
thereafter and shall cease at the close of the next succeeding annual commumcation. Pro~ided, that at least one Master and one Warden shall be appointed on
eacb of said committees.

The report was adopted and Section 27 was accordingly
amended by unanimous vote.
Appeal of Past Master of Acacia Lodge
In 1935,. the Grand Master after a full hearing, suspended the Master of
Acacia Lodge No. 438, which action was sustained by Grand Lodge and he was
not re-instated to his office. He now asks that his case be re-opened and that
he be given a new hearing. He presents nothing not considered by the Grand
Master.
Your committee is of the opinion that the Master was given a fair and
full hearing by the Grand Master. His case was closed by the act!on of the
Grand Lodge in sustaining the action of the Grand Master and m not reinstating. the Master to his office from which the Grand Master had suspended
him.
'We, therefore, recommend that his request be denied.

Report adopted:
Dispensations
We have also con'sidered the various dispensations issued by the Grand
Master and the life membership resolutions approved by him, and find that
in all respects he has complied with the law, and we recommend their approval.
DAN A R. WELLER,
]OHN D. MURPHEY,

BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE,
GEORGE L. JONES,

529

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

The following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of the
Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc. for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1937:
Receipts

October 1, 1936, balance on hand (cash and securities) ............................$i24,480.2,2
From rentals ..............- ......................- ..:......,..........-.........$43,772.00
From interest, savings banks............................................
20.12
From interest and dividends, securities.......................... 6,354.32
From refund on taxes....•....:..,......,.;..................:~.-~..........
227.79
From premium on sale of securities...- ......,.................... 5,814.49
From sale of old equipment, etc...•..,.....................~.......:..
11.75
56,150.47

$180,630.69
Disbursemen ts

i~;:se··:·:::::::~:;::~:::::::::::~:'.: :~:::::::::'.;::~~:~::=:::::::'.:::=::::::'.~:::::::$ ::~~:j~

Improvements and replacements;........................,.................... 9,432.76
Salaries ......,....................,.•..........;........:...........- ......:-.................... 10,930.83
Insurance .................................................................._.................
390.20
Dividends ....:.,.....................................;..........,._........................... 9,327.11

44,402.39

Balance on hand September 30, 1937 (cash and securities) ....$136,228.30
WM. P. FILMER, President.

F. C. RUPPEL, Secretary.

REVISION OF FUNERAL SERVICE
To the M:.

w:. Grand Lodge of California :

Whereas, it is believed that the Funeral Service could be improved upon
by adding thereto a supplemental and complete committal serviCe for use at
a crematorium or a cemetery, in addition to the present Funeral Service now used
at undertaking parlors.
Now therefore be it resolved that the Ritual Committee be authorized to
prepare such additional ritual as, in their judgment, may be appropriate and
useful for such committal service.
RUSSELL C. HORSTMANN,

Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.
CYRIL

w. MCCLEAN,
Sequoia Lodge No. 349.

ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
]oHN STEWART Ross,

HAROLD

c. SCHULTZ,

DAVID RUBENSTEIN,

Committee.

Adopted.

Referred to Committee on Ritual.
At 5 :10 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 10 :00
o'clock Friday morning.

530

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Jn ~ranb JLobgt
MORNING SESSION
Friday, October 15, 1937.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 :00 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.

SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
Freemasonry's asserted and practiced aim in the world has been the practice, exaltation, and achievement of Brotherly Love, Relief, and Truth. It ~as
never ceased to incite men to a support and adoption of these all-embracing
appeals for a betterment of the status of mankind.
In other words: Freemasonry, throughout its ever glorious histor:i:, pas
endeavored to instill into the minds of its members a realization, apprec1atmn,
and acceptance of those moral virtues which must live. and grow if. civili~ation
is to live and grow. It has ever relied upon its world-wide members~1p, wh1thersoever dispersed, to practice those virtues in order that its teachings may be
wrought into actual accomplishment. It has never, to our knowl~d.ge, attem~ted
to set up some form of organized machinery whereby some particular proJect
might be advanced, or some menacing movement might be put down. It e:rer
fights its battles in the hearts of men, by suasion; never on the fields of action,
by show of force.
Every Mason in California loves his country ~nd her in~titutions and
wants to see them retained and built up for added service to mankmd. In recognition as well as in demonstration of this fact, he should ever conduct himself,
in private thought and in public conduct, as if he felt that the salvation ~f
that country and the success of those institutions, actually depended upon his
own individual effort-upon his loyalty, his ability, his foresight, his abhorrence
of wrong, his unyielding support of truth and right, as he is ena~led indi~idu~lly
to sense those qualities. In this wise, he should demonstrate his Americanism
and justify his Freemasonry. This will mean that every Masonic heart is a
citadel of enduring strength for those things best calculated to serve democracy
and civilization· ever fearlessly engaged in persistent combat with all the foes
of righteousnes~-with all the forces engaged, directly or indirectly, in activities
that, unresisted, would destroy America, her aims, her achievements, her
hoped-for destiny.
As individuals, we the members of the Grand Lodge of California here and
now and as long as life shall last, announce ourselves in militant opposition to
all forms of activities that seem to challenge America's future or offer menace
to America's present.
Upon this rock we build our faith; upon this enduring rock we shall ever
strive to sustain and support Home, Country, and Freemasonry.

The above was adopted by unanimous vote.

531

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the M.". W .". Grand Lodge of Califoroia:
Your Committee on Credentials reports that the following members of
Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled to participate in
its deliberations :
Mileage Allowed
Lodge
R epresentatives
California....- ....................... No. l.. ......Ralph G. Wadsworth, Master
Frederick W. Dorr, Jr. W arden
Lee Crawford, Past Master
Jessie M. Whited, P ast Master
Thornhill Carmany, Past Master
Harvey A. Marvin, Past Master
Daniel E . F . Easton, Past Master
Jared M. Cody, Past Master
Western Star.........·--··--···No. 2........ S herman S. Statton, Master............$ 19.60
Tehama.................·-···-········No. 3........ Carl E. Yeargain, Master................
5.40
Clarence G. Briggs, Sr. W arden
Loyal C. Porter, Jr. Warden
Edwin D. Carpenter, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 5.40
Chas. A. Schwartz, Past Master
and Inspector
Benicia..........................- ...... No. 5.:......Joe R. Ward, Master........................ 2.00
Tuolumne............................. No. 8.,...... Frederick W . Marshall, Master...._ 11.60
Edmond Michel, Sr. Warden
E . M. Graham, Inspector................ 11.60
Corinthian................... _....... No. 9........Alfred L. Peterson, M as ter............ 7.50
William Neill, Sr. Warden
James W. Robinson, Past Master
and Inspector
Lewis Boyd Wilcoxon, Past Master
San Jose.....:.....- ...................No. 10...... Herbert K. Daegling, Master........ 2.90
Harry Bobbitt, Sr. Warden
Mervy n E. Rothe, Jr. Warden
J ohn H. McGehee, Past M aster.... 2.90
Joseph Spencer Greenley, Past
Mast er and Inspector.................... 2.90
Yount................v······- ········-No. 12......John ]. Arnitz, Master.................... 2.50
T. C. Shurtleff, Sr. Warden
Clarence W. F. Merwin, Jr.
Warden
Nevada..................................No. 13......J . Howard Penrose, Master .......... 15.02
Templc......- ..··-···--·····-·:--··l':l'o. 14...... Arthur F. Richardson, Master........ 3.00
Eureka...·-····-····~····-·····-··· No. 16...... Harold H. White, Master................ 7.60
Bernard L. Haines, Sr. Warden
Sidney W. Bancroft, Past Master
La Parfaite Union .............. No. 17...... Leopold L. Detoy, Master
Henri Mottet, Past Master
Diebold Michel, Past Master
A. L. Auradon, Past Master
and Inspector

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

532

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Martinez..--..··---····--···-----..No. 4L .... Elwood 0. Mitchell, Master............ 2.10
Gordon C. Ralls, Sr. Warden
'Louis Mittelman, Past Master
and · Inspector.................................. 3.50
Los Angelcs...._.................... No. 42......J . J . Svoboda, Master........................ 34.40
E. H. Bechtel, Sr. Warden
Sidney K. Lehman, Past Master
and Asst. Grand Lecturer............ 34.40
Hiram....................................No. 43 ...... Chas. E. Green, Master and
Inspector ...............................-........ 9.80
Mount Moriah............~ ........No. 44...... Louis A. Geils, Master
Harry M. Nicolson, Sr. Warden
Crcscent....-......................-..No. 45 ...... Howard E . _Raymond, Master........ 42.00
Texas................. _................. No. 46...... Curry H. Newberry, Sr. Warden.... ; 5.30
Joseph E. Regan, Jr. Warden
Forbestown....................- .... No. 50......Joseph W. Vance, Master................ 15.00
J. A. Vaughan, Past Master
C. F. Adams, Past Master
Illinoistown:.........................No. 51......John Herman Williams, Jr., Master 9.10
David E. Bowrin, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 9.10
Suisun...................................No. 55 ...... Howard L. Roloff, Master.............. 3.00
Francis E. Williams, Jr., Master
John H . Murray, Past Master
Harry Nelson, Past Master
and Inspector....-............................ 3.00
Volcano.................................No. 56......James Giannini, Representative...... 13.26
Santa Rosa........................... No. 57 ...... Ellsworth L. Barnett, Master........ 3.30
Harold C. Bruner, Sr. Warden
E . Douglas Bills, Jr. Warden
Raford W . Leggett, Past Master
Harry T. Kyle, Past Master
Union.....................................No. 58..... .]ohn A. Gerber, Master.................... 5.40
David L . Joslyn, Sr. Warden
Earle V. Atwell, Jr. Warden
Jack C.. Butler, Past Master and
· Grand Pursuivant..... ~.................... 5.40
Howard S. Mcintire, Past Master
Gravel Range......................:No. 59......Julius E. Pauly, Sr. Warden.......... 17.50
Fred J. Joubert, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 17.50
Earl Cleveland, Acting Grand
Treasurer ....,................................... 5.40
Plumas.................................. No. 60...... 0rval A. Myers, Master.................. 21.52
Lee W. Larison, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 21.52
Live Oak............................... No. 61...... Fred B. Hack, Sr. Warden
Lee Swaney Griswold, Past Master
Charles E. Haven, Past Master
Natoma................................. No. 64 ...... Dean E. Shannon, Master.............. 6.80
Amador................................. No. 65 ...... Clyde H. Getchell, Master............ 9.68
Robert S. Kerr, Past Master

Mountain Shadc.................. No. 18...... Norman L. Costa, Master................ 23.50
San Joaquin...~ ................:..... N o. 19...... Richard M. Wilson, Master.......... 5.10
Bruce G. Hislop, Past Master ·
Washington.......................... No. 20......John 0. Danielson, Jr., Master
Robert S. Roduner, Sr. Warden......
Emanuel Hendrickson, Past
Master
John J. Haken, Past Master
Herman T. Silvius, Past Master

5.40

Hawaiian...·--··-··················No. 21...... Frank S. Warren, Sr. Warden........ 250.00
Occidental...-..·-··-·-····No. 22......Alden Ames, Master
W. John Peden, Jr., Sr. Warden
W. Penn Humphreys, Pa~t Master
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master
and Inspector
Ralph Kerr Marshall, Past Master
Madison................................ No. 23...... Carl C. Kitts, Master........................ 14.76
Joe T. Moran, Sr. Warden
George L. Jones, Past Grand
Master .............................................. 15.02
Mariposa.............................. No. 24......John Schweifler, Master.................... 2J.22
Christo£ P. Hauck, Sr. Warden
Fred C. Alexander, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 22.90
James P . McEUigott, Past Master
Georgetown......................... No. 25 ...... George A. French, Master................
·
Harry T . Carter, Sr. Warden

13.80

El Dorado.............................N o. 26...... Bernt E . Chappell, Master.........:.... 9.80
Chas. H. Fehnemann, Sr. Warden
Harry L. Jasper, Jr. Warden
Trinity............................~.••No. 27 ...... Hal E. Goodyear, Master.................. 30.60
Golden Gate.........................No. 30 ......J. Franklin Still, Master
A. F. Heuer, ;J?ast Master
Paul R. Bjick, Past Master
Ophir........:............................No. 33...... David Eltringham, Master.............. 15.80
San Diego...:.........................No. 35 ......Shirley R. Hymer, Master................ 42.98
Rainsford W. Belding, Past Master
J. B. McLees, Past Master
and ·Inspector.................................... 42.98
Howard.................................No. 37...... 0tis M. Cloyd, Sr. Warden............ 27.52
George S. Ward, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 27.52
Santa Cruz........................... No. 38 ......James N. Dier, Master...................... 7.10
D. M. McPhetres, Sr. Warden
A. R. Morgan, Jr. Warden
Willett Ware, Past Master
Fred B. Montell, Past Master
Sacramento.......................... No. 40 ...... Chas. M. Smith, Past Master
Frank Tade, Past Master
Chas. W. Frazier, Past Master
and Representative........................ 5.40

·

534

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Forest.....................................No. 66...... Lloyd Smith, Sr. Warden.............. _ 23.24
Morning Star..•. ~ ...·-·-········No. 68...... H.Wallace Rohrbacher, Master......
Ralph W. Hickinbotham, Sr.
Warden
David H. Smith, Jr. Warden
Harry W. Bessac, Past Master
and Inspector..................................

5.10

Pajaro.........·--··············-··No. 110.... Harold R. Hushbeck, Master..........
Ernest M. Bollinger, Sr. Warden
Roy H. Davis, Past Master
and Inspector....................................

535
5.90
5.90

Chico................................,.... No. 111.... Irving A. Cleek, Sr. Warden.......... 10.20
5.40

Enterprise............·-····-·········N o. 70...... Clive B. Kelly, Master...................... 7.30
Desmond A. Winship, Past Master
Bear Mountain.................... No. 76...... Robert A. Mercer, Master.............. 10.18
Charles P. Cusick, Jr., Past Master
Calaveras....•.......•....•._...•..._No. 78......John ]. Halley, Past Master
and Representative.............................. 9.60
Humboldt....'"....................... No. 79...... Howard B. Melendy,
Representative •............................... 23.24
J. T. Fraser, Grand Master............ 23.24
Ione........................................ No. 80...... Vernon Gebhardt, Master................ 7.60
Yolo....-····---···-······:··-··.No. 81...... Clarence F. March, Sr. Warden.... 5.50
Vesper........,.............._ .......No. 84......Joseph J. Allen, Master.................... 16.00
Naval....-....·-·········-···-·····-No. 87...... Phillip S. Creedon, Master.............. 2.00
Ernest C. Fugler, Sr. Warden........ 2.00
Fred D. Samuels, Jr. Warden
David Jeffers, Past Master
Mark T. Andrews, Past Master
Joseph Anderson, Past Master
Paul E. Meyers, Past Master
J. C. Harrison, Past Master
D. R. Doherty, Past Master
Charles E. Zander, Past Master
Rose's Bar........:...................No. 89......Richard Ray Beatty, Past Master
and Representative........................ 10.50
North Star•............•_. ___ No. 91......Jacob D. Ames, Master.................... 30.52
St. Helena..................- ......._No. 93......John A. Mitchell, Master
John Wichels, Sr. Warden
Henry Clay.......................... No. 95 ...... Rufus B. Morrow, Master.............. 13.76
Malachi D. Nixon, Past Master
and Grand Bible Bearer.............. 9.76
Hornitos............................... No. 98...... George A. Bates, Sr. Warden........ 17.98
Yosemite...............................;No. 99 ...... Andrew R. Schottky, Master.......... 8.40
Anthony A. Rodrigues, Jr. Warden
True Worthy Fowler, Past Master
Clay......._ .....----··········-···No. 101.... Benton H. Wilcoxon, Master.......... 10.00
Herbert W. Ha:berkorn, Past
Master
Orovine....-.........:................. No. 103.... Stephen Fowler Bonner,
Sr. Warden........................................ 9.00
Albert E. Boynton, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Charles 0 . Hamilton, Past Master
Lexington.............................No. 104.... Frartk M. Wright, Sr. Warden...... 35.30
Arcata;........:...................... _No. 106.... Robert B. Hood, Sr. Warden........ ~. 23.74

Summit....- ........................ No.112....W. G. Bach, Past Master and
Representative ................................

7.10

Eden..._ ................................ No. 113...:William K. Forester, Master
Sidney B.· Force, Past Master
Concord..•............................. No. 117.... Clarence W. Malc.olm, Master........
Elmer D. Rastorfer, Sr. Warden
William E. Cotter, Jr. Warden
Anton L. Johnson, Past Master

5.40

Fidelity................................. N o. 120.... Harold S. Simon, Ma:.ter
David Rubenstein, Sr. Warden
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Philipp Jac()bovics, Past Master
Leon M. Lowenthal, Past Master
Milton D. Sapiro, Past Master
Alamo....- .............................. No. 122....Warren J. Gavey, Jr., Jr. Warden..
Charles G. Faisst, Past Master
John °H. Demartini, Past Master

3.20

Sotoyome........._ ................,.No. 123.... R. E. Baer, Representative..............
La Fayette........................... No. i26 .... George N. Bech, Sr. Warden..........
William C. Heatly, Past Master
and Inspector....................................
Ernest ·A. Feaks, Past Master
Chas. H. King, Past Master

4.10
3.70
3.70

Hermann...........................,.. No. 127,..,Wilhelm Schumacher, Master
G. ]. Heinrich Hauschildt,
Sr. Warden
Hans E. Warneke, Past Master
Ernest Gentner, Past Master
-~
Louis Muller, Past Master
John Behrens, Past Master
and Inspector
.:E. A. Neumarkel, Past Master
George A. Creon, Past Master
Vita1\a......,.....•.,.................... N o. 128..,,Lowell C. Strong, Master············-·· 18.40
Emory L. Dawson, Sr. Warden
Nicolaus........................~...... No. 129.... Harvey L. Smith, Sr. Warden........

7.50

Woodbridgc.........................No. 131....Hugh Arnold Dow, Master............

5.60

Sincerity..........----····--····No. 132.... Everett L. Eyraud, Master.............. 21.14
Vacaville.............................. No. 134.... Frank H. Clark, Past Master
and Representative........................ 4.00
George M. Stroud, Past Master
Valley.......·--··-·················No. 135....James Field, Master.......................... 6.10
C. W. McAfee, Jr. Warden
R. M. Foote, Inspector...................... 6.10
J. M. Carson, Past Master

536

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND . LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pa~ific._..;.-....:..- ..~..:.... ..:..... No. 136.... R~ymond T. Anixter, Master
Roy Emery, Sr. Warden
Alexander Schwartz, Jr. Warden
Edward Isaacs, Past Master
Thomas Anderson, Inspector
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Charles K Jackson, Past Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
William ]. Dawson, Past Master
. William C. Drinnen, Past Master
Frank Mueller, Past Master
CrocketL...·-····-··················No. 139 .... George H. Hauerken, Master
Francis J. Daly, Sr. Warden
Z. R. Callaham, Jr. Warden
W. H. Mason, Past Master
W. A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
Grafton .............. ,............. :.. No. 141.... Fre,d Leiser, Past Master
and Representative..........................

5.80

Franklin...... :......................... No. 143.... George H. Holmes, Master ........... .

6.40

OrientaL............................. No. 144.... Carl U. Zachrisson, Master
·
Richard H. Hartje, Sr. Warden
Edwin Hansen, Jr. Warden
Olin L. Berry, :Past Master
William K . McHugh, Past Master
Walter Leonard, Inspector
William E. Conner, Past Master
Chas. R. Brown, Past Master
George B. Lake, Past Master
Charles T. Clark, Past Master
Volney Stamps, Past Master
Roy N. Buell, Past Master
Clarence W. Dobie, Past Master
Frank C. Martin, Past Master
Lawrence P. Hansen, Past Master
Delbert L. Berry, Past Master
Vitruvius .............................. N9. 145.... H. P. Kristensen, Master................
Abell... ........~ ........;........ _.......No. 146.... Russell D. Ford, Master..................
·
W. Randolph Dear, Sr. Warden
Eel River ............... :...::...... _No. 147.... Arthur Dewey Niles, Master..........
Benny B. Marshall, Sr. Warden
Walter G. Orman, Inspector..........
Lassen. .........- ....................... No. 149.... W. Van DeKamp, Master................
Wallace V. Hardy, :Past Master
Carlos C. Lucero, Inspector............
Molino...................................No.150 .... Alfred R. Clark, Master....................

4.10
6.90
23.74
19.74
25.26
25.26
15.30

Woodland ........... ,................. No. 156.... Edward H. Farr, Master.................. 5.20
Keystone .........................,.... No. 161.... J. F. Helms, Past Master
.
and Representative............~ ............ . 6.90
·~armony...........- ...,............. No. 164.... Victor I. Hallock, Sr. Warden ....... . 30.40
Ernest M. Innes, Past Master

537

E:itce1siot...............,..•. _......-No. 166.... Joseph Chas. Sand, Master
James D. Ryan, Sr. Warden
Lloyd G. Emerson; Jr. Warden
Chas. Albert Adams, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Walker Peddicord, Past Master
Arnold T. Brown, Past Master
Samuel H. Perkins, Past Master
Alameda................................ No. 167.... Randolph Adam Griffin, Master.... 2.00
· Charles I. Burtch, Sr. Warden
Arthur T. Biddle, Jr. Warden
Frank G. Evans, Past Master
Frank B. Hartman, Past Master
Redwood City..................... No. 168....Theodore M. Cole, Sr. Warden ...... 1.60
Mission............:...••.•............. No. 169 .... DanieJ . D. Smith, Master
Joseph W. Erwin, Sr. Warden
Fred R. Robinson, Jr. Warden
Robert E. Allan, Past Master
Lew E. Wallace, Past Master
John D. Marshall, Past Master
Harry Z. '.I'rowbridge, Past Master
Elk Grove............................ No. 173.... George B. Stout, Master ................. . 6.50
Paul W. Frame, Sr. Warden
Thomas L. Conrad, Past Master
Drytown.................•...-........ N o. 174....J. J. Myers, Representative ....,... ,._., . 9.. 26
Antioch... ·-··········-······-~······No. 175....James N. Christian, Master............ 3.30
J. Frederickson, Past Master
Phoenix.............. '.................. N o. 178.... Fred W. Hattan, Master.................. 37.90
J. Herbert Smith, Sr. Warden
Mendocirio........................... No. 179 .... Neil M. Parsons, Sr. Warden .... :... 21.12
Donald Sangster, Past Master
Petaluma ........... - ................. No. 180....J. Carl Werner, Master .................... 2.40
S. Clay Olmstead, Sr. Warden
Russian River .•........•.;:.....No. 181.... Iver A. Iverson, Master .................. 3.80
Arbuckle.............................. No. 182....Albert H. Brandenburg,
Sr. Warden .....................•.•...•..........•. 6.90
Clear Lake.......................... No. 1S3.... Clarence E. Corum, Representative 13.00
Sierra Valley................:..... No. 184....Arthur Mays Strang, Sr. Warden.. 28.40
Claiborne.......,................::.. _.N o. 185 ...'.J. H. Halliday, Representative ...... 20.12
Keith ....- ......................~ .....-.No. 187.... Harry Bannister, Master............... . 4.70
Maurice J .. Byers, Sr. Warden
D. B. Hall, Past Master
'George E. Skillicorn, Past Master
Oakland.................................No. 18S .... Frank A. West, Master
R. B. Gaylord, Jr., Sr. Warden
Robert MacFarlin Ford, Past
Master
Milton Hendrickson, Past Master
Wm~ S. MacMurtry, Past Master
Wilfred R. Hill, Past Master
William I. MacDonald, Past
Master
Howard N. Mosher, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CAL.IFORNIA

538

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Northern Light....................No. 190.... Reason Elder, Jr. Warden................ 20.10
Marin........·--·,··-····-····-····No. 191.... Frank Berthiner, Master................ 1.74
Warren H. Williams, Sr. Warden
Wm. J. Miller, Jr. Warden
Joseph Black, Past Master
Harry F. Meilink, Past Master
Chas. F. Smith, Past Master ·
Herbert K. Walton, Past Master
Santa Barbara.......................No. 192....Thomas E. White, Master.............. 27.10
Arden L. Page, Sr. Warden
John McRae, Inspector.................... 27.10
Femdale...............................No. 193....John E . Gries, Past Master
and Representative.......................... 24.92
R. R. Williams, Past Master
Mountain View...- ..............No. 19.4....William R. Eschenbruecher, Master 2.20
John G. Pihl, Sr. Warden
Leon A. Watson, Past Master
Buckeye..........--.........,....-.No. 195 .... Leonard A. Overhouse, Master...... 5.00
Arthur H. Manyan, Past Master
Buell Ish, Inspector.......................... 5.00
San Simeon..........................No. 196.... Carey :Baldwin, Master...................... 24.00
William Reid, Past Master
W~mington.........................No. 198....J. R. Radcliffe, Master...·-·······-··--

34.40
M. B. M·acMullen, Sr. Warden
Hartley.................................No. 199.... Harry H. Lafferty, Sr. Warden...... 11.10
Truckee.............................._No. 200.... Colin C. Campbell, Jr. Warden...... 18.30
Silveyville ········-··········-·No. 201.. .. Ralph Waldo Castner, Master........
Alden D. Mace, Sr. Warden
Patalpha..- ······---····--No'. 202....Samuel Wallace Durham, Master..
Frank T. Stump, Sr. Warden
Clarence W . Hull, Jr. Warden
James B. Gist, Past Grand Master
Theo. D. Spurgeon, Past Master·
Lawrence C. Kelley, Past Master
and Inspector..................................
Frank S. Templar, Past Master
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Past Grand
Master ..............................................
Confidence.........- ................No. 203....Walter C. Buttle, Master..................
Rasmus H. Rasmussen, Past
Master
Christopher Dudley, Past Master
Salinas..................:............... No. 204.... Harry Noland, Master......................
Otivet........................- ........... No. 205....James L. Jobe, Sr. Warden..............
Stanislaus............................. No. 206....William P. Baldwin, Master............
Anaheim................_ .............No. 207....Eugene E. Hedrick, Master............
R~o Vista ............................. No. 208....Joseph W . Richards, Jr. Warden....
King David's.............- ....... No. 209 ....William A. Sharp, Master................
Carl Kirkeby, Sr. Warden
John Whicher, Grand Secretary

4.10
34.40
34.40
34.40
34.40
5.66

6.90
10.80
6.20
36.00
4.40
19.00

539

Friendship...._ ..................... No. 210.... Ernest ,L. Wilder, Master................ . 2.90
Arthur J. Miner, Sr. Warden
Clifton M. Perry, Jr. Warden
Albert T. Hollingsworth, Past
Master
Darre!l J. Sedgwick, Past Master
Charles V. Whalley, Past Master
Claude C. Clarke, Past Master
Wm. W. Paull, .:Past Master
T. M. Wright, Past Master....,......... 2.90
San Bcnito............................No. 211....Herman A. Hermansen, Master.... 5.50
R. W. O'Bannon, Past Master
M. C. Arthur, Past Master
So. San Francisco...............No. 212 .... George J. Zech, Master
Chas. H. Eisenhut, Sr. Warden
Wm. George Green, Past Master
Chas. Frederick Heusel, Past
Master
Cyrus Henry Kramer, Past Master
Otto Joseph Spindler, Past Master
San Buenaventura..............No. 214.... Hugh M. Wood, Master.................. 29.80
Cecil J. Rainey, Sr. Warden
Chester B. Trimble, Jr. Warden
Ralph W. Cummings, Past Master
Oak Grove .........................No. 215 ....Wm. H. Cox Master
Robert C. Strehlow, Jr. Warden
F. G. Thornton, Past Master
Mansfield W. Garrett, Past Master
T. Howen, Past Master
Doric.........·-··-···-····--··-·No. 216....Walter C. Simpson, Master
Benj. Silberstein, Sr. Warden
Ira W. Coburn, Jr., Jr. Warden
Manuel ;Lafee, Past Master
Montercy..............·-····-····-No. 217.... Charles Rubin, Master........................
Clyde H . Warren, Past Master
Thomas H. Douglass, Past Master
Mosaic............................_ ...No. 218....T. F. Brady, Repre~entative..........
Speranza Ita!iana...............No. 219 .... Vito L. Bruno, Master
John Icardi, Sr. Warden
John !sold, Past Master
John M. Icardo, Inspector
Antonio M. Cog!iandro, Past
Master
John G. Alioto, Past Master
Downey......................_ ........No. 220....Herbert C. Bonham, Sr. Warden....
lnyo...........___..-·-·~·-··-No. 221....Jess G. Sutliff, Sr. Warden..............
Roseville...............,...,... _ ..... No. 222.... Raleigh W. Terry, Jr. Warden.....•
Lucas Schaffer, Inspector................
Bakersfield........................... No. 224.... Edwin T. Angel, Master..................
Edgar L. Burton, Sr. Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Master
and Past Grand Master................
Henry Eissler, Past Master............

7.40
2.90

35.10
45.30
6.50

6.SO
23.20
23.20
23.20

PROCEEDINGS OF ·THE

540

Brooklyn....................;....... _No. 225 ..,.Roy S. H. Lenthall, Master
. John G. Brown, Jr. Warden
Louis Sutter, Past Master
San Mateo..:..:...... :....... _......No. 226 .... Charles Smith, Master..•..................•
1.10
Earl R. Beecher, Sr. Warden
Athens._..•.....,•........,,.......,;.. _N o. 228.... Lloyd Burnett, Master.................... 4.60
Solano...............;,_...,........... _No. 229 .... M.aurice Wm. Bowker, Master........ 2.00
Otto H. Recknagel, Jr., Sr.
Warden
Merrit F. Winchell, Jr. Warden
Henry A. Frahm, Past Master
Alvord B. Cushing, Past Master
Frank A. Hensley, Past Master
Lucien P. Dunne, Past Master
John Ramsey, Past Master
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
Russell C. Jones, Past Master
Demsey F. Du Four, Past Master
North Butte.. c......: .............. No. 230.... LaForrest R. Thurston, Sr. Warden
6.90
Janesville..:..:........................Nci. 232.... Hiram G. Clark, Past Master
Surprise Valley.................. No. 235 .... Brace A. Radabaugh, Master.......... 41.36
Hills Ferry.,.._'...:..............:.Nd. 236.... Arthur Rathhaus, Sr. Warden....... . 6.60
.
W. S. Thompson, Inspect-Or............ 6.60
237.... Frank R. Johnson, Sr. Warden...... 20.40
Guadalupe..........................:..
Colusa...............u .................. No. 240 ....James William Blean, Master........ 8.10
John Deter McNary, Jr. ~rden
Isaac Clark Totam, Inspe~tor ....- .. 8.10
Santa Ana...............- -..,..No. 241.. .. Leslie M. Pearson, Master.............. 36.40
George K. Scovel, Sr. Warden
S. J. Babcock, Past Master
Augustus H. Allen, Inspector.......... 36.40
Magnolia..:..............-..:........ No. 242.... Noble T. Davis, Master .................... 27.10
Eugene H. Bowman, Sr. Warden
Darrell C. Eppel, Jr. Warden
Edward L. Abbott, Past Master
:i:;ucalyptus......:.....,...:........... No. 243 .... Walter F. Flierl, Master................. ~ 1.30
'
Emil May, Sr. Warden
Robert P. Leibe, Past Master
Alcatraz .....................:._.......No. 244.... Norman Passur, Master
Joseph R. Haney, Sr. Warden
Carl C. Eien, Past MasteT
Lewis T. Corwin, Past Master
LaureL.... _•.,... ,...,................. No. 245 .... H. L. Murch, Past Master
·
and Representative......_ ............ 9.10
Pomona............... _ ............... N o. 2.46 ..... Clarence R. Goff, Master.................. 36.50
·
·
·
·
Currier Thatcher, Sr. Warden
H. B. Westgate, Jr. Warden
F~1l5no... :.......;;...;..................No. 247.... Charles E. Woods, Sr. W;m:len ...... 15.70
Harry F. White, Past Master
Donald H. Fisher, Past Master
Chester H. Warlow, Asst. Grand
Lecturer .......................................... 15.70
Fred P. Roullard, Past Master.......: 15.70

No:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alturas................................. No. 248 .... Wallace R. Calkins, Master............
James S. McCartney, Sr. Warden
Chas. Sherman Baldwin, Inspector
Adin .................................... No. 250 .... Lucius B. Walts, Master. .................
Landmark.............................No. 253 .... Gene S. Davis, Representative ........
Reading.................................No. 254 .... Stanley M. Strayer, Sr. Warden....
Gilbert C. DeForest, Past Master
and Asst. Grand Lecturer............
Albert F. Ross, Past Master
Earl Lee Kelly, Past Master
Welcome.......•.................... No. 255.'... Truman C. Allen, Master ................
Walter Nelson Hubbard, Past
Master
l..odi....•......;........................... No. 256 .... George.T. Killelea, Sr. Warden ......
T. Glenn Wright, Past Master
and Inspector ..................................
Peprhyn................................ No. 258 .... Ernest A. Ammon, Master..............
George Sanderson, Past Master
Edmund J. Pilz, Past Master
Evergreen.............................No. 259 .... Roy L. Haglund, Master... ,......,.......
Harry P. Amstutz, Sr. Warden
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master ....
Willard G. Babcock, Inspector........
Harry D. French, Past Master
A. Heber Winder, l'ast Master
King Solomon's .................. No. 260 .... Willard W. Grundel, Master
Stephen J. Dean, Jr., Jr. Warden
John W. Davey, Past Master
William L. Cullen, Past Master
Tuscan.................................. No. 261.... Samuel E. Crutcher, Sr. Warden ....
Lompoc................................. N o. 262 .... Ferdinand C. Condaffer,
Sr. Warden ........................................
Hesperian............................. No. 264....James T. Tunnell, Jr. Warden ........
Orland.................~;............... .No. 265 .... Inman W. Beck, Sr. Warden ........ ..
Herman H. Thode, Inspector..........
Galt........................................No. 267 .... Raymond P. Cornell, Sr. Warden ..
Durant.................................. No. 268 .... George C. Pettygrove, Master
Robert A. Hanson, Sr. Warden
Eugene T. Frickstad, Jr. Warden
George E. Oxley, Past Master
Niles 0. Miller, Inspector
John J. Hink, Past Master
William H. Waste, Past Master
and Jr. Grand Warden
Walter W. Bradley, Past Master
Ralph E. Hoyt, Past Master
Olive Branch...................... No. 269 .... William J. Williams, Sr. Warden ..
Snow Mountain.................. No. 271.... F. M. Kesselring, Representative..
Pasad~~......;............ No. 272 .... William A. Allen, Master ......... ~ ......
William R. Meeker, Sr. Warden
Anchor.................................. No. 273 ....T. H. Parrish, Master......................
C. E. Stamm, Sr. Warden

541
35.36
35.36
51.30
6.10
18.10
18.10

18.30

5.40
5.40
7.10
37.90
37.90
37.90

7.60
23.80
21.22
10.00
10.00

5.40

18.40
14.10
35.20
34.40

542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

19:74

Arroyo.........•-················-····No. 274.... Max H. Morgan, Master..................
A. Harry Severson, Past Master
Oakdale................_..........- ...No. 275 .•.. Harry Otto Stewart, Master.......... 7.10
Elmo Alexander, Sr. Warden
Chas. C. Wood, Past Master
Bernard F. Hoisholt, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 7.10
Selma........·-····-··----··-··No. 277.... Don H. Sinclair, Past Master
·
and Representative.......................... 16.70
Southern California.......... No. 278.... George L. Johnson, Master...........• 34.40
Chas. T. Medler, Sr. Warden
Dana G. Weller, Past Master
and Past Grand; Master................ 34.40
Edw. Byron Spencer, Past Master
Hanford................................ No. 279 .... ]. Edgar Northamer, Master.......... 17.80
Winfred Eaton Martin, Past
Master and Inspector.................... 17.80
Madera...........................-..... No. 280.... Carl Herbert Edman, Master........ 14.50
Laurie Wm. Cooper, Sr. Warden
Mount Shasta ......................No. 281.. .. Wm. C. Gover, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 18.10
.
C. A. Tandy, Past . Master
and Representative........................ 17.40
Edwin L. Story, Past Master
CallayomL........................... No. 282.... Frank A. Hoberg, Master................ 9.00
South West....................._.• No. 283 .... Lloyd W. Bates, Master.................. 42.98
James B. Norton, Sr. Warden
Erle G. Spoi'ord, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 42.98
Ferdinand T. Hutcheson, Past
Master
San Miguel...................._.... No. 285 ....Jay L. Vaden, Jr. Wardi:n................ 12.20
Paso R<>bles ................ _ ..... No. 286 .... Arthur J. Beaty, Sr. Warden.......... 12.80
Winnedumah..................:.... No. 287.... William Archer Crosby, Master.... 46.72
Maxwell...·-····-···················No. 288.... Louis G. Sutton, Past Master
and Representative.......................... 8.10
Elsinore.~..•........................... No. 289 .... Edward C. Record, Sr. Warden ...... 40.22
East Gate.............................No. 290.... Harold C. Schultz, Master.............. 34.40
Clarence K. Brodie, Sr. Warden
Ralph Ellis Smith, Past Master.... 34.40
Edward Lee Stephens, Past Master
Frank MacPherson Smith, Past
Master
Eric St. Clair Flett, Past Master
Santa Paula..............:.......... No. 291.... Vernell V. Loyd, Master, ................ 30.80
Harry M. Miller, Sr. Warden
G. A. Quick, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 30.80
Los Gatos............................No. 292....Joseph A. Brinton, Master.............. 3.10
Jack D. Broderick, Sr. Warden
P aul Jean Straub, Jr. Warden ·
Thomas Maurice Widby, :Past
Master and Inspector.................... 2.90
Fred Berryman, Past Master

543·

Orange Grove......................No. 293 ....John S. Lampert, Master................ 36.40
Jesse]. Hutchins, Sr. Warden
'Leon Whitsell, Deputy Grand Master
Traver..:-···--·~············-······No. 294.... Henry K . Fridborg, Sr. Warden.... r7.00
Mt. Jackson...............•-........No. 295 .... G. M. Read, Sr. Warden.......~.......... 4.50
Silver Gate-........................No. 296.... Emi! L. Schellenberg, Master.......... 42.98
Earl F. Kenner, Sr. Warden
Earl R. Newton, Jr. Warden
Raymond Pratt Wakeman, Past
'Master
·
Dunsmuir•.------··-·····--····No. 297.... Albert D. Lininger, Sr. Warden
and Past Master.............................. 22.90
Liberty..........·-···-···············No. 299....John Thomas Allen, Master............ 2.70
Chas. Orville Burrell, Past Master
and Inspector.....'............................... 2.70
Redlands ...............................No. 300.... C. E . Perry, Jr. Wan~en.................... 38.50
Arthur P. Crim, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 38.50
Ontario.....•......................-..-No. 301....John E . Chambers, Master.............. 36.80
Santa Lucia...·-····-·············No. 302.... Roy Edw. Reinhart, Master............ 9.60
Porterville............................No. 303.... Frank Daybell, Master...................... 19.90
Henry L . Lubking, Sr. Warden
Obed W. Carr, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 18.90
Reedley................................. No. 304.... Lars P. Larsen, Sr. Warden............ 17.20
Azusa............................._..... No. 305 .... George M. Rodecker, Sr. Warden.. 35.90
Ashlar·.·-········--·--····-··-No. 306.... Ernest T. Crooke, Sr. Warden...... 37.90
Santa Monica._................... No. 307.... William M. King, Master................ 34.40
E. Earl Sawyer, Sr. Warden
Frank M. Wise,, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 34.40
Monrovia..................:..-.....-No. 308.... C. L. Anderson, Master.................... 35.50
Chas. Ellsworth, Sr. Warden
Oliver L. Rawson, Past Master ·
and Inspector~................................. 35.50
Delano...................•.- .......... No. 309 .... George A. Osner, Master.................. 21.30
H. Zimmerman, Past Master
. A. Sheppard, Past Master
Sisson.................•........--...... No. 310....Robert B. Eiler, Sr. Warden ..........- 23.80
Los Banos.........·-·-·······-····No. 312.... Lester J . Spindt, Sr. Warden.......... 7.80
TehachapL......- .....- .......:..No. 313.... Hyram Willis Stapp, Master.......... 25.10
Constatine G. Koutroulis, Sr.
Warden
Harry J. Beauford, Past Master
Temesca1...............................No. 314.... William Eli Loranger, Master........ 38.80
Isom Henry Hall, Sr. Warden
Milan Wesley Barger, Jr. Warden
· Fred Elwyn Snedecor, Past Master 38.80
Norwalk.............................~. No. 315.... 0yd Clifford Cole, Sr. Warden........ 35.40
A. E. Dressiel, Past Master
Sanger...............,. ____...:......No. 316.... John C. Rasmussen, Master............ 16.60
·
C. R. Chaney, Sr. Warden

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALil>ORNIA

Falibrook...-···-··········-·--·No. 317.... Lucas H. Stratton, Master.............. 42.02
Emmanµel...-..........- ....-..-No. 318....Joseph A. Foster, Past Master
and Representative.......................... 8.80
Hollenbeck...._.,..•...........-...No. 319.... David L. Morton, Master.................. 34.40
Leon C. Glendenning, Sr. Wardert
George H. Mullins, Jr. Warden
· Leo V. Youngworth, Past Master
South Gate .......................... N o. 320.... Roy H . Longshore, Master.............. 34.40
Ira D. Yohn, Sr. Warden
Martin L . Griffith, Past Master
Geo. M. Donovan, Past Master
A.lisal................ _................_.No. 321....Peter C. Madsen, Sr. Warden........ 2.50
·
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
Stanley C. Smallwood, Past Master
Alhambra......................-....•No. 322.... Clayton T. Gibbs, Master................ 34.90
John G. Washburn, Sr. Warden
Menno 0. Mohler, Jr. Warden
Whittier................................No. 323 .... Clarence W. Peck, Master.............. 35.66
Dorsey L. Ellis, Sr. Warden
Roy I. LaFever, Past Master
and Inspector......................:........... 35.60
Corona.................................. No. 324.... Clarence P. Salisbury, Master........ 35.20
Gordon F . Porter, Sr. Warden
Aaron G. Marcus, Past Master
and Senior Grand Steward.......... 35.20
Consuelo..................- ........... No. 325 .... Harold R. Brewer, Sr. Warden...... 42.48
Needles..............·-····-····-····No. 326.... Clayton C. Morse, Sr. Warden........ 46.02
Trace H. Cooper, Jr. Warden
Carl C. Mikesell, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 46.02
Long Beach.........................No. 327....William J . Burgin, Master.............. 34.40
Lloyd Boivin, Sr. Warden
Clark H. Shaw, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 34.'4o
Redondo................................No. 328.... Clyde D. Lowen, Sr. Warden.......... 34.40
Valle de France.................N o. 329.... Ernest A. Stevens, Master................ 34.40
Kilauea ................. _...............No. 330....A. D. Potts, Past Master
and Representative.....·-·················· 283.00
Pacific Grove........- ............ No. j3L.. Frank C. Higgins, Master................ 7.50
Clyde F . Dyke, Sr.. Warden
Russel Wilbur Giles, Past Master
Charles Kirkham Tuttle, Past
Master and Inspector.................... 7.50
George Hibbard Schuyler, Past
Master
Edward Arthur Cope, Past Master
Clifford W. Moody, Past Master
San Pedro............................No. 332....Clyde Storey, Master........................ 34.40
Wm. H. McA:llister, Sr. Warden
Alta....:......·-····-·•··················No. 333 ....Ralph Goodman, Master.................. 40.10
Chas. W. Kinne, Jr. Warden
Covina...·-····-····:..:..- ........... No. 334....Thos. B. Reed, Sr. Warden............ 35.90

West Gate............:....__..:.....No. 335....John W. Lucas, Master.................... 34.40
Max Lichtenstein, Sr. Warden
John M. Hayden, Jr. Warden
Fruitvale.....~........~.........,......N o~ 336.... Samuel L. Hancock, Master
Harold 0. Sjoberg, Jr. Warden
Russell Carl Horstmann, Past
Master
Carquinez....................,._....... N o. 337.... 0tis I. Oliver, Master........................ 1.80
Wm. S. Brunning, Jr. Warden
Jam es King, Past Master
Jacob Erratt Hughes, Past
Master and Inspector
Benj. Franklin Scribner, Past
Master
San Jacinto.... _....................No. 338....Val Domenigoni, Master.................. 41.94
Fullerton....-··-··-··-············ No. 339.... Earl Snyder, Master.......................... 35.90
Arthur J. Edwards, Sr. Warden
H. C. McMaster, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 35.90
C. S. Chapman, Past Master............ 35.90
Harold E. Hale, Past Master
Oxnard..................- ..............No. 341.... Chas. R. Havens, Master.................. 30.40
Duron B. Keir, Sr. Warden
San Fernando........:::........... No. 343.... Frank Marple, Sr. Warden.............. 33.20
Starr King_......~................. No. 344.... Armand Heumann, Master
Milton C. Zimmerman, Sr. Warden
Lester T. Goldmeyer, Jr. Warden
Chas. M. Wollenberg, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Clyde C. Henshaw, Past Master
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
Haiman L. Wayne, Past Master
Alfred E. Breslauer, Past Master
and Inspector ·
Leland S. Bright, Past Master
Solomon Deutsch, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master
Fred W. Reitler, Past Master
.
J·
Brentwood..........- ................N o. 345....Shirley S. Summers, Master............. 3.80
P~lto Alto...·-····-'···-··········No. 346....Jpseph C. Lynn, Master....................
1.90
A. N. Umphrey, Past Master
McKinley........·-'···- ···-····-No. 347....Joseph W. Garside, Master............ 1.00
Emile A. Pleau, Sr. Warden
Ivan T. Conn, Jr. Warden
Wm. B. Richmond, Past Master
Rollo L. Eubanks, Past Master
San Bernardino....- ............ No. 348....Willis A. Inman, Master..............-.. 37.90
Walter W. Robinson, Sr. Warden
G~orge Feetham, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 37.90
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Master
and Past Grand Master................ 34.40

544

545

546

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Loyalton............:._........... -.No. 359 .... Peter L. Gottardi, Master................ 25.40

&iquoia .•..............-···-·········· No. 349 .... Fred C. Granholt, Master
·
. Donald M. Hughes, Sr. Warden
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
Earl Warren, fast Master and
Past Grand Master
Wesley W. Kergan, Past Master
and Inspector
Edw. Floyd Hughes, Past Master
Palestine....... _...................... No. 351....Will H. Light, Master...................... 34.40
•
Magnus Nielson, Sr. Warden
Thomas J. McDonald, Past Master
Sunset...... ............................ No. 352.... William T . Rothwell, Master.......... 34.40
Fred L. Dittig, Sr. Warden
Lloyd C. Campbell, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 34.40
Rollie W. Miller, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.................. 34.40
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
and Senior Grand Deacon............ 34.40
Wm. K. Schofield, Past Master
Samuel E. Burke, Past Master
and Past Grand Master................ 34.40
Pinole...................•.,___, __ ,•..... No. 353 .... Geo. W. Pfeiffer, Past Master
and Representative..........................
1.40
Presidio... ·-····-····-~:,.-~:.,~ .. No. 354 .... Russell 0 . Majors, , Master
'
Clinton M. Smith, Sr. Warden
Eric Raynor Johnson, Past Master
and Inspector
Chas. Ross Cooper, Past Master
Louis E. Bowin, Past Master
John .E. Houston, Past Master
Emil G. Wunner, Past Master
Wm. A . Sherman, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Frank G. Watson, Past Master
and Grand Tiler
Hollywood .........................:.No. 355 .... Marion S. Hull, Master.................... 34.40
Leo Ellis Anderson, Sr. Warden
Lee D. Mill, Jr. Warden
William B. Ogden, Past Master
and Grand Orator.......................... 34.40
D . F. Black, Past Master
Mill Valley ..... ·-······'···-~·-··-No. 356 .... S ~ G. Bagshaw, Sr. Warden
.
Frederick A. Penn, Past Master
Herbert A. Klyer, Past Master
Richard T. Lawrence, Past Master
Buena Park---······-···-·········No. 357.... Caryl Brightson Snyder, Master....
Golden State....--··-·--·········No. 358 .... Valentine R. Viall, Master ......:... ~-'·
Harry B. Parkhurst, Sr. Warden
Arthur B. Dittman, Past Master
Ben G. Wright, Past Master..........
Fred G. Robb, Past Master
Wm. A. Schrieder, Past Master......

547

35.70
34.40
34.40
34.40

San Francisco......................No. 360.... Alfred J . Thidodeau, Jr. Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Past Master
John E. Rebhard, Past Master
Earle Freeman, Past Master
H. L. Bush, .Past Master
J<1hn A. Wolden, Past Master
Ernest R. Byers, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
Wm. F. Jebe, Past Master
Fort Bragg....--..·······-·········No. 361.. .. Millas G. Green, Sr. Warden............ 18.82
Charity......... ~---·-····-······No. 362 .... Soren 'N. Hedegard, Sr. Warden.... 3.10
·
Mark S. Stocher, Past Master
Ira R. Ab·bott, Past Master
Berkeley...............- .•.. '•··:.N o. 363 .... H . S. Neighbor, Master
Oscar J. Jahnsen, Jr. Warden
Frank A. Fielitz, Past Master
Chas. A. McKelvey, Past Master
Willits ................................... No. 365 .... Chas. L. Hodge, Sr. Warden.......... 12.40
A. B. Guslander, Inspector.............. 12.40
L~~ Palmas ..........................No. 366 .... Roy H. Gerard, Master.................... 15.70
Jas. R . Erskine, Past Master
South Pasadena................. _N o. 367 .... John B. Edmondson, Sr. Warden.. 35.00
Horace E. Vedder, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 35.50
Geo. D. Bragonier, Past Master
John W, Shenk, .Past Master
P ..

Unity....•....·--······--··-···--··No. 368 ....Morgan N. Smith, Sr. Warden........ 34.00
Dwight W. Stephenson, Past
Master ··········-········-························· 34.40
Ocean Parlc_·-···-·--··········No. 369 .... M. A. Deemer, Master...................... 34.40
F. S. Walburn, Sr. Warden
Amity...............- ...- ............. No. 370.... Urban D. Mackins, Master
Leigh E. Whitehill, Sr. Warden
John L. Tamke, Jr. Warden
Richard Cain, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanie ..... No. 371.. .. William .E . Kerr, Master.................. 250.00
Alexander D. Potts, Past Master
and Inspector
Gardena ....................- ......... No. 372 .... Dondal Barsch, Sr. Warden............ 35.20
. ·
Keith W. Schlaegel, Past Master
and Inspector.................................. 35.20
Veteran................................. N.o. 373 .... William I:i. Riley, Master ...... ,........... 34.40
Frederick H. Lipking, Sr. Warden
Jewel......;, ................ :.......:.... No. 374....Thomas Parry, Master
Jesse P. Rundell, Sr. Warden
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Chas. E. Anderson, Past Master
and Grand Organist
Chas. Benton, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master

548

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Richmond .............:............... No. 375 .... Robert W. Price, Master
Emil K. Bender, Sr. Warden
Harry E. Morris, Jr. Warden
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
George F. Sand, Past Master
James L. Halley, .P ast Master
George H. Bradner, Past Master
Wm. C. Johnson, Past Master
Ernest L. Fischer, Past Master
Francis Dra~ .................... No. 376 .... Herman P. Scampini, Master
Chas. K. Elder, Jr. Warden
Artesia ..................................No. 377 .... Chas. J. Carver, Master.................... 35.50
Mizpah ..................................No. 378 .... Lawrence J. Hall, Master................ 34.40
William. L. Thompson, Sr. Warden
Richard C. Rein, Jr. Warden
Fillmore................................No. 379 .... Harry D. Felsenthal, Master............ 31.40
Caeser T. Mumme, Sr. Warden
Bertram W. Roderick, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach.............. No. 380 .... Carl Leue, Master.............................. 36.90
V. Langenbeck, Sr. Warden
Oceanside..............................No. 381.. .. Joseph A Giro, Master.................... 41.30
Geo. A. Otis, Inspector...................... 41.30
Highland Park....................No. 382.... Frank L. Van Epps, Sr. Ward'en.. 34.40
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
William Taylor, Past Master
OrOlli.. ................ ,.................. No. 383 .... B. A. Ruth, Master............................ 18.00
George T. Jadwin, Sr. Warden
El Centro.............................N o. 384 .... Harry R. Sones, Master.................. 52.02
Gerald H. Lampkins, Sr. Warden
Charles Elias Sonnes, Past Master 52.02
Charles Henry Knights, Past
Master and Inspector.................... 52.02
John Stewart Ross, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.......,........ 34.40
John Ward Tyler, Past Master
Dinuba..................................,No. 385 .... Walter F. Hellbaum, Master.......... 17.50
Walter Callison, Sr. Warden
Clarence L. Fraser, Inspector ..:.,..... 17.50
Coalinga............................:.. ..No. 387.... Ira G. Wallingford, Representative. 20.80
Parnassus ............................. N o. 388 .... Edward J. Willig, Master
George E. Kimball, Sr. Warden
Samuel Miller, Past Master
Palos Verdes ...................... No. 389 .... Dingeman L. Lea tart, Master........ 34.40
G. Aubrey Thomas, Sr. Warden
Impcrial...........,.-................. No. 390 .... Lawrence G. Niles, Sr. Warden...... 52.02
Dorman V. Stewart, Jr. Warden
East Belt.........................~ .... No. 39°L. .. Frank C. Coates, Master.................. 14.00
West Lake.....,....................• No. 392 .... Stanley Cowin, Master...................... 34.40
Frank R. Brunner, Sr. Warden
Lee Theron M ul!en, Past Master.. 34.40
Walter Louis Berger, Past Master 34.40
Chas. Emerson Listenwalter, Past
Master .............................................. 34.40
Wm. Theodore Osterholt, Past
Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

549

Balder..........- .... :...- .......... ~No. 393 .... Clarence D. Lindstrom, Master
Bernard R. Peterson, Sr. Warden
Walter Blomberg, Jr. Warden
Nels Steven Stohl, Past Master
University.....:....................... No. 394 .... Frederick Wm. Morris, Jr., Master 34.40
Carl. Schorsch, Sr. Warden
Edward A. Brown, Past Master
Turlock...............:......... _. ___,No. 395 .... Clifford E . Plummer, Master.......... 7.00
Harry 0. Carlson, Inspector.......... 7.00
Apo1lo .................................... N b. 396 .... Albert S. Ridley, Master
Edwin G. Nelson, Sr. Warden
Oscar Park Stowe, Jr. Warden
Oscar Robert Presco, Past Master
Karl L. Mallard, Past Master
Rising Light............,...........No. 397 .... Roy 0. Yost, Master.......................... 34.40
Roy D. Klinker, Sr. Warden
Walter D. Piper, Inspector.............. 34.40
Fraternity............................. No. 399 .... Neil H. Schellbach, Master.............. 2.90
Burlingame. ......................... No. 400 .... Frank A. Bloom, Master
Lloyd H. Kruger, Sr. Warden
Frank A. Bryan, Jr. Warden
Chas. Jacob Orman, Past Master
Walter L. Scott, Past Master
Samuel Leslie Hawken, Inspector
Bay View............................ N o. 401.. .. Alfred F . Virden, Master
John Cuthbert Jordan, Sr. Warden
Henry Martin, Jr. Warden
Fred William Wetmore, Past
Master
Dante Raymond Blade, Past
Master
Brawley................................ No. 402 .... Charles Smith, Sr. Warden.............. 51.70
Yerba Buena....................... No. 403 .... Alfred J. Bateman, Master
John A. Kitchen, Sr. Warden
Glendora .....-......................... No. 404 .... Earl F. Whitcomb, Sr. Warden.... 36.10
Moncta.................................. N o. 405 .... Homer Calvin McPherson, Master 34.40
· Otto A. Stoltz, Past Master
Walter T. La.r ter, Past Master
Burbank................................ No. 406.... Gerald D. Harrington, Sr. Warden 33.70
.
La Mesa............................... No. 407 .... Paul T. Mannen, Past Master
and Representative.........................• 42 98
Sierra Madre...................... No. 408 ....Howard Miller, Sr. Warden............ 35.20
Honolulu .............................. No. 409 ....Walter R. Dunham, Representative 250.00
Charter Rock .................... No. 410 .... Matthew Morton, Jr., Master
Charles W. Stannard, Sr. Warden
Stanley St. C. Juch, Jr., Jr.
Warden
·
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Wm. C. Juergens, Past Master
Jas. K. Fish, Past Master
Roy M. McHale, Past Master
Perris.................................-No. 411.. .. Harry Haggen, Master...................... 39.18

550 .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Catexico ....-····-···..:·-·····-··· .. No. 412 ....Tipton E. Pledger, Master............
Richard S. Emerson, Sr. Warden
0. A. Pratt, Past Master..................
Waucoba ............................... No. 413 .... Wm. ' L. Davis, Inspector..................
A. R. McDonald, Past Master
and Representative..........................
Arlington .............................. No. 414 .... Fred G. Crawford, Master................
Roiger Gulbransen, Sr. Warden
Carl F. Peters, Past Master
and Inspector..................................
Silver TroweL.._................ No. 415 ... :Victor Massie, Sr. Warden..............
Wm. Forman King, Past Master
Lindsay ........·-···--·..•····-.:O-No. 416 .... Lester L. Lightfall, Master..............
Chas. H. Bachman, Sr. Warden
John Henry Mercer, Past Master
Clovis ..................................No. 417 ....John I. Polson, Sr. Warden............
E1ysian.........................::..L .. N o. 418 .... Walter B. Stearns, Master..............
Nelson E . Turpin, Sr. Warden
Leon B. Royer, Jr. Warden
Robert F. Callender, Past Master
Henry D. Coley, Past Master
Upland.................................. No. 419 .... E. T . Derfer, Sr. Warden................
E. Tweed Stone, Jr. Warden
.W. R. Farmer, Inspector..................
Kerman ......--..- ...................No. 420.... Chas. B. Hemmings, Sr. Warden..
Inglewood.................,...........No. 421.. .. Lulan M. Irvine, Master..................
Leslie G. Leachman, Sr. Warden
Fred R. Pardee, Past Master
and Inspector..................................
Eagle Rock .......................... No. 422 .... Vivian Lyle, Master..........................
Yorlc..-.................................. No. 423 .... Frank M. Wickham, Master............
Exeter ..................... _............ No. 424.... Joseph P. Zimmerman, Master......
Frank E. Page, Sr. Warden
Frank M. Mixter, Past Grand
Master ..............................................
William A. Waterman, Past
Master
Holtvilte...............................No. 425 .... Loyd W. Loudon, Sr. Warden........
E. J. Smith, Past Master
Midway.............................. _.No. 426 .... Raymond G. Dixon, Master............
Theo'dore H. Rowcliffe, Sr.
Warden
Chester M. Inman, Inspector........
Chino Valley.............:.......... No. 427 .... Wm. M. Beckley, Sr. Warden........
San Dimas ........................... No. 428 .... Ronald F. Williams, Master............
Arthur E. Tangeman, Inspector....
Pittsburg..........·-·-····-······· No, 429 .... William A. Buzacott, Master..........
Harry W. Reinhart, Past Master
Archie V. McFaul, Past Master
McCtoud...................,...........No. 430 .... R. I. McWilliams, Sr. Warden........
Chas. S. Hogan, Inspector..............

52.02
52.02
47.60
47.60
34.40
34.40
34.40
19.30

16.50
34.40

36.90
36.90
15.00
34.40
34.40
34.40
34.40
18.90
18.90

52.02
26.90
26.90
36.80
36.20
36.20
3.00

25.80
25.80

551

Alpha ...... -·-··--··--- - - -···---· N o. 431.. .. Carl F. Lavo, Master
Frank E . Bronson, Sr. Warden
Martin Wiltz, Jr. Warden
Geo. McKinley Clarke, Past
Master
Edgar Cornel.1 Clark, Past Master
Wm. Purdue Self, Past Master
John McGrath, Past Master
Hamm~nton ......................... N o. 433 .... Guy W . Coats, Master...................... 9.00
J. Clarence Gray, Past Master
Maricopa.............................. No. 434.... Clyde L. Campbell, Sr. Warden...... 26.60
Fairmount............................ No. 435....Robert \V. Blinn, Master
'
·
Edward C. Binder, Sr. Warden
Edward R. Pootel, Jr. Warden
Rudolph Illing, Past Master
Ralph Wm. McDonald, .Past
Master
Roy Gaines Jones, Past Master
Claremont............................. No. 436 ....John A. Essex, Master...................... 36.60
Lancaster ...-----····- ··-········No. 437.... Floyd J . Lecher, Sr. Warden.......... 29.70
Acacia .................... ~······· .... No. 438 .... Herman C. Kaestner, Master.......... 34.40
·
•
Karl L. Ratzer, Inspector.............. 34.40
Tyrian................................... No. 439 .... Horace C. Hafley, Sr. Warden......
5.20
Standard ............................... No. 440 .... Vernon W. Greenwaldt, Master
Frederick J. Degen, Sr. Warden
Clifford J. Sorel, Jr. Warden
DeMille M. Campbell, Past Master
Chas. B. Olds, Past Master
Wesley P. Relfe, Past Master
Wm. F. Wood, Past Master
Coronado......;........:.............. No. 441.. .. Donald E . Hamblin, Master ............ 42.98
Edward F. Kohl, Sr. Warden
Harry Stanley Clark, Inspector.... 42.98
Edward C. Nevins, Past Master
Blackmer.--........................ No. 442 ....R. Hastings Garland, Master.......... 42.98
Hiram G. Dillin, Sr. Warden
Leon H. David, Jr. Warden
Warren E. ,Libby, Past Master...... 34.40
Schofietd............................... No. 443 .... George W . Wallace, Sr. Warden .. 250.00
·carpinteria...... :.................... No. 444....John Burrough Hudson,
.
Sr. Warden .................................. 29 80
Charles Curtis, Past Master
Wilshire ..:......................... - .No. 445 .... Frank E. Geiger, Master.................. 34.40
James R . Pierce, Sr. Warden
John A. Klarquist, Past Master
Thomas Andrew Dille, Inspector 34.40
Fred E. Clark, Past Master
Will H. Fischer, Past Grand
Master .............................................. 34.40
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master...... 34.40
La Puente..........- ······-·.. No. 446 .... Ralph L. Morehouse, Jr. Warden.. 34.40
Torrance ...........- .................. No. 447 .... Clarence L. Ingold, Sr. Warden.... 34.40
.ablo
No. 448 .... Ray L Copeland, Master................ 2.70
Mt· Dl
.................. _.......
Merton H. Newhall, Sr .Warden

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Park............- ..- ...........:....___ No. 449 .... Bertram J. Coffey, Master
Robert K. Huppert, Sr. Warden
Foster G. Dyer, Inspector
Reginald Duden, Past Master
Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Van Nuys..........-.'............... No. 450....John P. Harding, Master................ 34.40
Herbert W. Walker, Inspector...... 34.40
Montebello.........._______________No. 451.... C. A. Jensen, Master........................ 34.40
M. L. Lamb, Sr. Warden
San Pasqual....................•... No. 45Z.... Fred E. Geibel, Master.................... 35.26
Paul C. Benner, Sr. Warden
Bethlehem............:............... No. 453.... Charles E. Heberer, Master
Chas. Wm. Green, Past Master
E. M. Blanford, Past Master
Crocker................................. No. 454.... Peter J. Barsi, Master
John Livingston, Sr. Warden
Edward M. Eliasen, Jr. Warden
James Gladstone Allan, Past
Master
George Watson, Past Master
Geo. Clifford ·chamberlain, Past
Master
John Mitchell, J>ast Master
Golden Wcst................•..... No. 455 .... Harold L. Scheppler, Master
Norman Reed, Sr. Warden
Ramona ................- .........._.. No. 457.... Ivor 0. Ward Master
34.90
Arlan E. DeBurn, Sr. ·:w;·;d~~·-··-Wilbert ]. Stewart, Inspector........ ' 35.20
H
Norman_W. Giesy, Past Master.... 34.40
enry S. Ormc................_No. 458 .... Peter P. Novotny, Master................ 34.40
John Collins, Sr. Warden
R' b
Frederick C. Warner, Inspector.... 34.40
1
. ver ank................ - ...........No. 459.... Stanley D. Elliott Sr. Ward
M
t 0
'
en...... 6.60
oun
so..........- ..........;... No. 460.... Patrick M Mitchell S W d
A
t
·
, r.
ar en.. 4.16
rgonau ····························-No. 461....J. Denison McCue, Master
Walter Roy Bowden, Past Master
Joseph Alexander Blackford
Past Master
'
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Chas. Austin Rice, Past Master
Purcell Rowe, Past Master
Harry Philip Rothermel, Past
· Master
Paul Revcre........................ No. 462.... Ro·bert L. Duncan, Master
Joel H. Springer, Sr. Warden
Jacob W. Warshow, Past Master
John C. Oslin, J>ast Master
Wm. Arthur Gerder,· Past Master
Oscar W. Sandstrom, Past Master
Louis D. Smith, Past Master
John Cox, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Morgan Hill...._____________:...No. 463.... Robert Chas. Rice, Sr. Warden......

553
4.10

Alta Vista......................___,No. 464....William A. Foster, Master
William L. Russell, Sr. Warden
Ralp.h Jos. Jones, Jr. Warden
Harry L. Wintersgill,. Past Master
Francis Jos. Herz, Past Master
Center.-...- .............- ............No. 465....J. Earnest Mergenthaler,
Sr. Warden .................................. 15.70
Lee E. Colburn, Jr. Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, Inspector.......... 15.70
Libertas..._............................ No. 466....Ernest C. Minner, Sr. Warden...... 23.20
Warde D. Watson, Jr. Warden
Raymond Taylor, Inspector............ 23.20
Culver City..........................No. 467 ....Harold N. Cool, Master.................... 34.40 .
William R. Gallagher, Jr. W arden
Truman Van Dyke, Inspector........ 34.40
Rockridge .............................No. 468 ....Thor. G. Nordlund, Master
Philip H . Wedel, Sr. Warden
Ernest W. Whitney, Jr. W arden
Wm. E. Harris, Past Master
Willard W. Shea, P ast Master
Milton T. Farmer, Past Master
Yorha Linda................- ...... No. 469 .... Valdo Y. Smith, Master.................. 36.24
Lincoln..............._................. No. 470.... Albert Springer, Sr., Master
Shirley C. Forsey, Sr. Warden
James C. Wilder, Past Master
Albert L. May, Past Master
Leslie E . Gorren, Past Master
Dejta..................................- ..No. 471....William C. Christman, Master...... 5.10
Maui............................- ........ No. 472.... John S. Brown, Sr. Warden .......... 272.00
Blythe..........-····-··········-····..No. 473.... Ernest Berry, Jr. Deacon and
Representative ................................ 51.88
Victory.. _, ...-...·-····-·····-··· No. 474....Albin B. Johnson, Master
Harry T. Darr, Sr. Warden
James E. Zearbaugh, Jr. Warden
.
G. L. Halek, Past Master
America...............- ......~ ........ No. 475 ....William H. Radford, Master............ 34.40
Coachell~ ................_....
No. 476....Earl K. Farrar, Sr. Warden............ 45.90
Temblor........:....:-....~............. No. 477.... Carl F. Roeder, Master.................... 27.40
Thousand Oaks.................. No. 478.... C. H. Linford, Master
Robert P. Wisecarver, Sr. Warden
George L . Hammon, Jr. Warden
Golden Rule................- ....... No. 479.... Bruno -L. Schulz, Master................ 2.90
Arthur H. Rhodes, Past Master
Joseph C. Boschken, Past Master
Fellowship.......:....................No. 480.... Chester H. Treichel, Master
Reginald B. Wilson, Sr. W arden
David K. Sweet, Jr. Warden
Mt. Davidson...................... No. 481.... Paul N. Moore, Master
Albert P. DeFerrari, Jr. Warden
Arthur Melvin Warren, Inspector
h

••• •••

554

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Clarence F. Smith.............. No. 482.... Robert J. Cairns, Master...........:...... 34.40
·
Thomas A. Carter, Sr. Warden
F. H. Van Frank, Jr. Warden
Frank Falloon, Inspector.................. 34.40
Bell..._,...... _.. _........._ .. _.,...• No. 483....John C. Douglass, Master................ 34.40
H. S. Gimber, Sr. Warden
Harold C. Comoford, Past Master
Albert Pike.......................... No. 484.... Harvey C. Bates, Sr. Warden........ 34.40
Chowchilla....- ...................... No. 485 .... Carl D. Clausen, Past Master and
Representative .............................. 9.50
Caledonia............... _..........•.. No. 486....Walter N. Moore, Master................ 23.20
Virgil G. Andrews, Sr. Warden
Lindsay B. Lyons, Jr.· War<len
vu.
a eJD.--............................. No. 487.... Max Charles Schomoekel, Master.. 2.00
Lloyd Bennett, Sr. Warden............ 2.00
Carl Otto Lindley, Jr. Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, Inspector........ 2.00
H. M. Rowe, Past Master
,
C. G. Crane, Past Master
~tterson...·--······-·············No. 488.... Frank E. McConnell, Jr. Warden.. 5.90
st Bay.······-·- ·-····--·-·· No. 489....John Martin Rush, Master
John J. Menges, Sr. Warden
Thomas A. Hughes, Jr. Warden
Roy Parkinson Past Master
Corcoran................- .............No. 490....Willard R. Engvall, Master............ 18.54
Max L. Monroe, Sr. Warden
Woodstock.... _..................... No. 491....Augustus D. Zimmerman Master
Sidney J. Hall, Jr. Warde'n
Charles John Rundstrom, Past Master
L. A. Choice, Past Master
R. W. Merrick, Past Master
Garvanza.............................. No. 492.... P. E. Showalter Master
34.40
Ralph C. Girtch,' Sr. W a;d~~·······-··
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
Atascadero......................... No..493.... 0rval Gould>' Jr. Warden.................. 13.50
Charles W. Starkey, Past Master
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
Acorn.,...................................No. 494.... Frank W. Sprague, Master
Ralph Adams, Sr. Warden
Leigh H. Smith, Jr. Warden
R. V. J oste, Past Master
Lebanon................................ No. 495 .... Frank Weinstock, Mast«:r
Ralph Mahany, Jr. Warden
Milton Meyer, Past Master
;iverdale.............................. No. 496....William A. Klepper, Sr. Warden.. 17.00
remont................................ No. 497.... W. W . Hoffman, Sr. Warden
Chester C. Morris, Inspector
H. A. Buck, Past Master
~tockton.....................- ......... No. 498.... Earl T. Womble, Master.................. 5.10
apital City........................ No. 499..• Carl M. Richards, Sr. Warden........ 5.40
Wm. Delbridge Richards, Past
Master and Inspector.................... 5.40

Roosevelt............................. No. 500.... Benito P. Galli, Sr. Warden
Marvin Cloyd, Jr. Warden
Otto C. Huth, Past Master
Nels E . Johnson, P ast Master
Westwood............................. No. 501....G. R. Bradford, Sr. Warden............
Harbor:...-..•
No. 502.... Chas. E. Pickering, Master..............
Seaside..- ............................ No. 504.... F. Lloyd Coney, Master....................
Wm. J. Courtiour, Inspector............
M. T. Corbusier, Past Master
Silver Cord..........................No. 505.... Frank C. Arnim, Master..................
Carlyle Dennis, Sr. Warden
Mount Olive.........................No. 506.... E lmer N. Woolf, Master..................
E . LaVore DePave, Sr. W arden
Chet Relph, Past Master
Fred A. Kelsey, Past Master
El Segundo.......................... No. 507.... Louis G. Suender, Jr. Warden ........
Joppa..................................... No. 508. ...Jans T. Rathmann, Master..............
Benjamin Franklin............ No. 509....Morris J. McCauley, Master............
William J . Dankers, Jr.,
Sr. W arden
Karl N. Eckers, Past Master
Cupertino............:................. No. 510....J. R. Kamp, Master............................
R. L. Vincent, Jr. Warden
G. L. Allen, Past Master
Sunnyvale............................. No. 511....A. W. Trubschenck, Master............
Robert Rankin, Past Master
J. B. Kehl, Past Master
Palms .......................:............ No. 512.... W. F. Betts, Master..........................
H. B. L awrence, Sr. Warden
Cahuenga.............................. No. 513.... Gilbert N. Young, Master ................
R. C. Bryan, Past Master................
Argonne................................ No. 514....James V. Clancy, Sr. War<len
• William R. Bigelow, Jr.,
. Jr. Warden
John A. Turner, Past Master
H. G. Mathewson, Past Master
Vermont Square................. No. 515 .... R obert W. Imrie, Master ..................
Warren S. Baird, Sr. Warden
Taft....................................... No. 516.... Henry E. Barnes, Sr. War den........
H . W. Beatty, Past Master
Mount Vernon....;............... No. 517.... R. F. Fletcher, Master
E. G. Reichstetter, Sr. Warden
· C. J . Thompson, Jr. Warden
Leland · E. Lang<lon, Past Master
La Jolla....:................-....._...No. 518.... Louis P. Baird, Master......................
Euclid....-............................-No. 519.... F. Kenneth Stoakes, Sr. Warden ....
lonic.......................................No. 520.... H. David Cherman, Master.............1
Jerome D. Rosenfield, Sr. W arden
Piedmont.............................. No. 521.... V. Ford Greaves, Master
·
Hugh B. Hill, Sr. Warden
L. Bolenbaugh, Jr. Warden
V. R. Pentecost, Past Master
R. H. Chamberlain, Past Master
and Jr. Grand Steward
Francis G. Tallman, Past Master
k . . . . .. .. .. . . .. . . . . . . .

555

25.26
1.00
34.40
34.40
36.40
34.40

34.40
15.10
34.40

2.82
2.40
34.40
34.40
34.40

34.46
26.90

42.98
34.40
34.40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

556

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sunrise....- ..........:..... ~.......... No: '522....Wilbur J. Cox, Master...................... 34.40
Walter E. Toole, Past Master
Betlflower........:.. _....-·---·.,.. No. 523.... Calvin P. Crawhill, Master.............. 35.50
C. E. Burlingame, Sr. Warden
Albert V. Heaman, Past Master
E. H. Frederick, Past Master
Catalina Island................. No. 524.... 0tiver G. Greenbaum, Master ........ 38.90
William Jos. Greenbaum, Sr.
Warden
H. M. Warner, Past Master
H. A. Wegmann, Past Master
George Washington............ No. 525 .... Alfred L. Bosse, Master
Thomas May, Sr. Warden
Henry A. West, Jr. Warden
John Johnston, Past Master
Bay City.........·-··········-·······No. 526....Jack A. Seaman, Master
Covenant.............:..........- ..... No. 527.... Eric S. Slater, Sr. Warden.............. 34.40
Beverly Hills..:......,............ No. 528.... J. D. Savage, Master.......................... 34.40
Frank Harwell, Past Master 'and
Inspector -································--·-·· 34.40
Joe Bookman, Past Master
Loyalty............ _..........-........No. 529.... Nat C. Green, Master........................ 34.40
Eugene M. Rosen, Sr. Warden
Sun Garden.......................... No. 530.... Embry L. Burtner, Sr. Warden ...... 15.70
Herbert R. Hargrave, Inspector.... 15.70
Alexandria..................-........ No. 531.... E. S. Davidson, Master
Frank G. Hobbs, Past Master and
Asst. Gr;md Secretary
F. F. Goodman, Past Master
F. B. McAtie, Past Master
Smyrna..........- ...................... No. 532.... Benj. Simon Taylor, Sr. Warden .... 6.50
Azure.........- .....-......~.........._No. 533.... Clyde W. Trotter, Master................ 35.90
Samuel E. Adams, Sr. Warden
Forest Hill........................... No. 534.... Keith M. Noble, Master
Richard E. Tabor, Sr. Warden
Alvin H. Davis, Jr. Warden
Alexander Hamilton.......... No. 535 ....William U. Handy, Master .............. 34.40
Roy O. Boyer, Sr. Warden
Seal Rock. ...- .............:..-.... No. 536.... George R. Finnigan, Master
John L. Webber, Sr. Warden
John Kenneth Wright, Past Master
E. W. Bode, Past Master
Utopia.................................... No. 537.... George Leask, Sr. Warden.............. 34.40
Ascot.,........-···-········-~---··-· No. 538.... Etias E. Owens, Master.................... 34.40
Harlan L. Ray, Sr. Warden
Belvedere.............................. No. 539....Jesse D. Ramsey, Master.................. 34.40
Queen Beach.........·-···-····-·No. 540.... D. R. Dickinson, Master.................. 34.40
Henry Morse Stephens.... No. 541.... George E. Fullerton, Master
Wilson E. Newlon, Sr. Warden
M. A. Sawrie, Past Master
H. W. Conklin, Past Master
Edward A. Reinke, Past Master

557

Lankershim.......................... No. 542.,.. Frank 0. Graves, Sr. Warden........ 34.40
Signal......- ...····-····-····-···:... No. 543....Wilfred L. Shumate, Master.......... 34.40
Clifford A. Rohlfing, Sr. Warden
Glendaie................................ No. 544....Russell E. Hobbs, Sr. Warden........ 34.00
Jonathan.,............................. No. 545.... Charles Graeme Ure, Master
Paul A. Genzken, Sr. Warden
Herbert E. Stone, Past Master
San GabrieL...~.................... No. 546.... Henry J. Dolstra, Sr. Warden........ 35.00
Arcadia................................. No. 547....Irving A, Murfett, Master................ 35.20
Ttiangle................................No. 548.... Ralph K. Dean, Master.................... 34.40
Bert C. Bussey, Sr. Warden
Justice....................................No. 549.... Frank M. Scott, Master
Frank Reinke, Sr. Warden
William W. Barry, Jr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
Seaport...................... _,.........No. 550....J. D. McReynolds, Master
George T. Davis, Sr. Warden
Felton D . Harris, Jr. Warden
Walter H. E. Von Konsky, Past
Master
Otto A. Holtzen, Past Master
John Alpers, Past Master
B. L. Canning, Past Master
Charles F. Knipe, Past Master
J. J. Wullschleger, Past Master
Lakeshore............................. No. 551.... Carl E. Turner, Master
Charles C. Buckley, Sr. Warden
H. S. Gerrish, Past Master
John R. McKalip, Past Master
Se·mper Virens....................No. 552....Thomas W. Hodge, Sr. Warden.... 23.24
Golden City......................-.No. 553.... Louis H. Schott, Master
Educator.,......•..-.................. No. 554....Byron D. White, Master
Max B. Wilson, Sr. Warden
Walter P. Simi, Jr. Warden
G. C. Otwell, Past Master
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
Byron D. White, Past Master
White Pine.....·-···············-·No. 555.... George S. McCormick, Sr. Warden 24.50
Fairfax.........................-.:.... No. 556.... Harry G. Nordhotz; Sr. Warden.... LlQ'
Hermosa...................- .......... No. 557_.. R. C. Stewart, Sr. Warden..:..·-······ 34.40
A. L. Bailey, Jr. Warden
Point Firmin........................ No. 558.... Carl R. Peterson, Master.................. 34.40
Karl V. I:Ianey, Sr. Warden
Craftsman.......:....•............. No. 559....Patrick J. O'Donnell, Master.......... 34.40
Raymond A. Hickman, Sr. Warden
David E. Henry, Jr. Warden
Plymouth ........................... No. 560.... 0tiver M. Pace, Sr. Warden
A. C. Stewart, Jr., Jr. Warden
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
Chas. L. Rakestraw, Past Master
East San Diego.................. No.:561....GeC>rge V. Meltzer, Jr. Warden.... 42.98

558

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pyramid ..............................No. 562.... Ear! J. Schmale, Master
E. A. Tipton, Sr. Warden
H. P. Jorgenson, Jr. Warden
South Park........................ No. 563 .... Bert R. Gustelius, Master................ 34.40
Newton D. High, Past Master and
Grand Sword Bearer...................... 34.40
Hugh Erin Moor, Past Master
David W. Bosserman, Past Master
Foothill... ...................., ....... No. 564.... Henry Towne, Master
Elmer W. Jackson, Sr. Warden
Joseph A. Rose, Jr. Warden
B. L. Miller, Past Master
West Adams ..................... No. 565 ....James Demaria, Sr. Warden............ 34.40
James A. Garfield .............. No. 566 .... Albert M. Niblo, Master.................. 34.40
Roy Hampton, Sr. Warden
Kenneth H. Boyer, Jr. Warden
Halcott B. Thomas, Past Master
Searchlight........................... No. 567 .... Donald A. West, Master..................
James R. Martin, Sr. Warden
Park Boulevard.................. No. 568 .... Emmett H. Hart, Sr. Warden
J. E. Hammond, Past Master
John M. Drew, Past Master
Chateau Thierry............... No. 569 .... Eugen·e J. Ralston, Master
·
Paul W. Heisey, Jr. Warden
D. LeRoy Babcock, Past Master
W. J. Breen, Past Master
Military Service.................. No. 570.... Alfred C. Honey, Master
Otto F. Hansen, Sr. Warden
Chas. W. Huse, Jr. Warden
Fred Lee Somers, Past Master
C. J. Manning, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck. ......... No. 571....John Tilbury, Jr., Master
Horace H. Acorn, Sr. Warden
Paul Dettmer, Jr. Warden
L. H. Castlio, Past Master
D. R. McCurdy, Past Master
A. L. Fowle, Past Master
James Madison .................... No. 572.... Clarence M. Turner, Master............
Hiticrest ............................... No. 573 .... G. B. Blanckenburg, Master
William Maguire, Jr. Warden
S. W. Hackett.................... No. 574.... ~alph B. Randolph, Sr. Warden....
Fort Crook........................... No. 575 .... Byron T. Hollenbeak, Sr. Warden
El Cajon............................... No. 576.... Clifford F. Smith, Master................
Sunnyside............................. No. 577 .... Arthur R. Graeser, Master..............
James E. Martin, Sr. Warden
E. A. McGahan, Past Master
F. W. Davies, Past Master..............
Progressive .......................... No. 578 .... Fred W. Godard, Master..................
Chas. T. Crewell, Sr. Warden
Warren G. Harding.......... No. 579 .... Paul M. Norbryhn, Sr. Warden......
H. R. Brown, Past Master

34.40

34.40

42.98
28.60
43.48
34.40
34.40
34.40
5.70

559

Santa Maria........................ N o. 580 .... Frederick W. Gladhart, Master.... 45.38
Leonard P. Coddington,
Sr. Warden
Security................................ No. 581....Emil J. Schmidt, Master.................. 23.20
Norman H. Farnham, Sr. Warden
Rialto ..................................... No. 582.... Harry E. Benson, Master.................. 37.80
Harry M. Boyd, Sr. Warden
Wasco................................... No. 583 .... Leigh F. Barrows, Sr. Warden....... 21.82
·Harding................................ No. 584....W. F. Burnham, Master.................. 34.40
George C. Wagner, Sr. Warden
C. L. Hanson, Past Master
D. S. Williams, Past Master
A. L. Jepson, Past Master
Manchester .....~ ................... No. 585 .... Anton J. Urban, Master.................... 34.40
Eugene J. Trossello, Sr. Warden
Garden Grove...................... No. 586.... Charles W. Ferguson, Sr. Warden 36.40
Valley Forge....................... No. 587 .... Sam Bonura, Master.......................... 34.40
J. Ben Goodrich, Sr. Warden
El Sereno...:......................... No. 588 .... Gordon C. Coombs, Sr. Warden.... 34.40
Kauai... .................................. No. 589 .... Douglas J. Sinclair, Sr. Warden .... 272.00
George M. Coney, Past Master
and Grand Standard Bearer ........ 272.00
Compass .............. ,................. No. 590 .... Kenneth S. Graham, Sr. Warden.... 36.50
Escalon.................................. No. 591.... Frank S. Thornton, Master.............. 6.30
Wesly F. Fowler, Sr. Warden
Tujunga, ............................... No. 592.... Fred Terzo, Master............................ 34.90
All States.............................. No. 593 .... Clarence H. Bonsky, Master............ 34.40
Harry T. Earnshaw, Sr. Warden
Service...................................No. 594.... Gerald D. Kint, Master.................... 34.40
Carl A. Baker, Sr. Warden
Alexander Graham Bell.No. 595 .... Robert M. Dreibelbis, Master........ 34.40
Clarence W. Lindskog, Sr. Warden
Guardian............................... No. 596....W. F. South, Sr. Warden................ 34.40
Truth..................................... No. 597 .... Fayette C. Stevens, Sr. Warden.... 34.40
Pearl Harbor....................... No. 598....James M. Huey, Jr. Warden............ 250.00
Carmelita.............................. No. 599 ....W. P. Welsh, Master........................ 35.20
Clark Ely Ives, Sr. Warden
Edmund A. Lockett, Past Master
Lynwood............................... No. 600 ....Walter H. Fleming, Master............ 34.72
Grizzly................................... No. 601.. .. Leonard B. O'Rourke, Master........ 23.30
Melrose.................................. No. 602.... Ralph E. Busch, Master.................... 34.40
Roy R. Stark, Sr. Warden
James L. Goode, Inspector.............. 34.40
Ralph A. Hix, Past Master and
Jr. Grand Deacon............................ 34.90
Dimond................................. No. 603 .... Benj. L. Wade, Master
James J. Torrison, Sr. Warden
Frederick E. Mark Jones, Past
Master
Henry A. McKenna, Past Master
Jubilee................................... No. 604.... Ha~vey H. Dimmitt, Sr. Warden.. 36.40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

560

Glassell Park....•..............._.No. 605.... Quincy G. Dikeman, Master.......... 34.40
Sojourner............-:.:..•_ ...:.•No. 607.... Ernest 0. Gray, Sr. Warden............ 35.50
Gran;i.da........:.·-···-··-······-No. 608.... L. T. Smyser, Master........................ 34.90
·
R. V. Uhrig, Sr. Warden
K. H. Knesel, Past Master
Provident.............- ............... No. .609.... Frederick Wm. Whitney, Master.. 5.40
Leslie E. Wood, Past Master and
Grand Lecturer .............................. 5.40
Elmhurst............................... No. 610....John H . Gilmour, Master
Lyman E. Odgen, Sr. Warden
Andrew P. Costelli, Jr. Warden
Carl Boorman, Past Master
€anoga.........................:.......• No. 611.... Verne L. House, Master.................. 32.90
Temple Gjty......'....:..:......:..: No. 612.... M. L. Smith, Sr. Warden................ 34.90
Three Pillars....................... No. 613.... Hiram H. Hendren, Sr. Warden.... 5.40
Larchmont.........................-No. 614.... Willard Allers, Master
L. L. Wood, Sr. Warden................ 34.40
Herman E. Bennett, Past Master
Hemet........,..,..................-.... No. t;)15., ..James Z. Harris, Sr. Warden........ 40.40
R. ~- Dolley......~-···-···No. 616.... Everett Koontz, Jr. Warden
Irwin C. Smith, Past Master.......... 34.40
Don P. Proctor, Past Master
Big Bear . .
.............. ;-\o. 617.... Paul H . Jones, Master...................... 41.06
Southland..........................-No. 618 .... William Kahler, Jr. Warden.......... 34.40
·
·
··
William L. Hovis, Past Master
Neptun,e..·-··········-········---·-No. 619 .... George F. Roberts, Master.............. 34.40
·
· ·
George N. Haddock, Past Master
Point. :Loma·....,....,.,......,...-.~.o. 620.... Roy M. Gates, Master...................... 42.98
The Gardens.·.········--······-··No. 621.... Robert Tait, Master............................ 34.40
Atwater,_.,:.., ..;.••....•.•..•..•,.... No. 622 ....]. C. Taylor, Ma_ster.......................... 34.40
J . B. Williams, Sr. Warden
Menorah...·-········•·-·-·······--No. 623....J oseph White, Master
Joseph Sokolow, Sr. Warden.......... 34.40
Aaron Elmore, Past Master
R. I. Kronick, Past Master
Fortitude....,.:......:.........:......:No. 624.... Ernest I. Hunter, Master
Elmer C. Baecker, Sr. Warden
Alfred C. Hicks, J r. W arden
Andries H . Van Eck, Past Master
Frank Ziegler, Past Master
Lionel Bertram Be.n as, Past Master
Horace E. Vedder, Past Master
No. 625....J ohn E . Roberts, Master.................. 34.40
Angeles Mesa....,,...,..
Claude R. Cox, Sr. Warden
...
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
John J . Humble, Past Master
Chula Vj~ta~ .....:..'.:,·....~ ..,-•}·No. 626....William A. Finley, Master.............. 42.98
Lamanda Pa~k....:.,..:......... No. 627.... E dwin H. Wood, Master.................. 35.20
·
Leslie E. Webster, Sr. Warden
· Beacon of the WesL........ No. 628.... Robert Thistlewhite, Sr. Warden.. 34.40
0

y ••• ••• ••

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

561

Fairview............................... No. 629 ....Thomas H. Weber, Master.............. 34.40
Pierce H. Faze!, Sr. Warden
W. C. Hudnall, Past Master
lngleside............................... No. 630....John B. Connolly, Master
Paul J. Knibb, Sr. Warden
Charles W. Coles, Jr. Warden
Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Master and
Ass't Grand Lecturer
R. W. Blosser, Past Master
Benevolence......................... No. 631....Albert H. Ross, Master.................... 34.40
Marshall A. Savage, Sr. Warden
Normal Heights.................. No. 632....Roy W. Eaton, Master.................... 42.98
Paul E. Bower, Sr. Warden
Poinsettia............................. No. 633 ....Alf C. Ax, Master-.......................... 29.80
John M. DeVries, Sr. Warden
Hugo R. Holst, Jr. Warden
L. C. Drapeau, Past Master
Victorville....~···..·················No. 634.... Carl V. Northup, Master................:. 39.06
Riverside.............................. No. 635.... Gordon F. Black, Master.................. 37.90
Donald W. McColly, Sr. Warden
John Marshall.................... No. 636.... Edwin C. Traucht, Master.............. 34.40
A. T. Morgan, Sr. Warden
Palisadea.............................• No. 637.... Edward E. Liptrap, Sr. Warden .._ 34.40
·
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master and
Grand Marshal .............................. 34.40
Charles H. Foye, Jr., Past Master
C. C. Crawford, Past Master
Indian Rbelc........................ No. 638....Donald I. Cone, Master
Eva·ns R. Foster, Sr. War.d en
F. T . Herrick, Past Master
James R. Esty, Past Master
Composite............................. No. 639.... Benjamin Friedlander, Mast~r........ 34.40
Ben Solnit, Sr. Warden
Joseph Weber, Past Master
Veritas.........--··---············No. 640....Wil!iam R. McWood, Master
Ralph M. Tvede, Sr. Warden
Walter N. Lamore, Jr. Warden
Edward J. Hudson, Past Master
W. T. Kohnke, Past Master
C. R. Donnell, Past Master
James A. Foshay................ Nd. 641....Christian N. Gade, Sr. Warden...... 34.40
La Cumbre........................... No. 642....T. B. Webb, Master..........~:....:......... 27.10
·
George H. Clapp, Sr. Warden
Alta Loma............................No. 643.... F. L. Biard, Master............................ 34.40
Lomita................................... No. 644.... Daniel F. Naulty, Sr. Warden........ 34.40
A. F. E. Irwin.................... No. 645....Archie A. Fellers, Master................ 34.40
Joseph A. Moody, Sr. Warden
George Gojun, Jr. Warden
Metropolitan........................ No. 646.... B. D. Robinson, Master.................... 34.40
J. W. MacDonald, Past Master
Hawthorne........................... No. 647....W. P. Robertson, Sr. Warden........ 34.40
L. E.. Henry, Past Master

562

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Damascus..............:.:............ No. 648.... Frank M. Graf, Master............:.......
L. C. Close, Past Master
Harry L. Hill, Past Master
Florence.......................:........ No. 649.... Ernest Loeckritz, Master................
·
C. B. Mundy, Sr. Warden
La Brea...........:.................... No. 650....Jo D'Hart Hurd, Master..................
David M. Evans, Sr. Warden
Charles B. Goodridge, Past
Master
Wm. T. Wheeling, Inspector..........
Menlo Park......................... No. 651....Frank D. Hill, Sr. Warden..............
C. E. Sebring, Past Master
J. R. Hardy, Past Master
G. J. Owens, Past Master
Crescenta Valley........,.......No. 652...:Paul A. LaGue, Sr. Warden............
Fontana.................................No. 653.... Ross W. Gesler, Master....................
Jordan................................... N o. 654.... Leonard 'Gross, Master....................
A. P. Henry, Past Master
Monte Vista........................ No. 655 ....E. C. Whitc·omb, Master..................
Donald L. Ziegler, Sr. Warden
Citrol..................................... No. 656.... David W. Goodwin, Master............
John D. Spreckels.............. No. 657.... H. C. Carroll, Master........................
Clifford W. Hansen, Sr. Warden
LivinJston........................•... No. 658.... G. H. Winton! Past Master and
Representative ..............................
La Habra...................;.......... No. q59....Jesse D. Herman, Sr. Warden........
Baldwin Park..................... No. 660...• Irl Joseph De Fount, Sr. Warden..
Malta....................................-.. No. 661.... Clarence H. Bright, Master............
John North, Past Master
,
Henry Knox:....................... No. .662.... Carl A. Sanborn, Master..................
Ralph F. Coops, Sr. Warden
OjaL...........................~······-~o. 663 ...,Kenneth P. Sheldon, Master..........
Kaweah ................................. No. 665 .... Donald B. Smith, Sr. Warden........
Reseda.................................... N o. 666....J ohn Pearson, Representative........
Meridian.......................•....... No. 667.... Blanchard E. Ralph, Sr. Warden ..~.
John R. Moore, Inspector................
San Gorgonio...............,...... No. 6.68.... DeRoy H. Gates, Inspector............
Walter Scott Hathway,
Rf!presentative ................................
John P. Jarman.................. No. 669....John A. Daly, Master........................
Clair B. Sheets, Sr. Warden ·
H. Pritchard, Past Master
Greenleaf... ..............:..........• No. 670.... Guy C. Shaw, Master........................
H. E. Porter, Sr. Warden ·
G. R Miller, Jr. Warden
Far West.............................. No. 673.... Chris J. Christensen, Master
Earl W. Rudeen, Sr. Warden
John A. Bell, Jr. Warden
C. S. Locke, Past Master
L. A. Gintzler, Past Master
N. W. Anderson, Past Master •
H. 0, Taylor, Past Master ·
Dea·n Wilson, Past Master

37.90
34.40
34.40

34.90
1.82

34.00
37.60
34.40

563

Los Cerritos....................... No. 674.... Nathan Niemer, Master.................... 34.40
Modesto.........................:...'... No. 675 ....Arthur H. Raynor, Sr. Warden...... 6.20
Willow Glenn.......,.............. No. 676.... Sidney E. Akers, Master.................. 2.90
C. E. H. Hale, Past- Master
Liberal Arts...:..................... No. 677.... Fred H. Oster, Master...........,......... 34.40
Reynold E. Blight, Past Master
and Grand Chaplain........................ 34.40
W. A. Sherwin, Past Master............ 34.40
G. Ellsworth Meyer, Past Master
Altadena............................... No. 678.... Grant W. Pe;ngilly, Master.............. 35.20 .
Martin J. Nels on, Sr; Warden
Canby Ctoss.....~ ......'..........No. 679.... Charles Coates, Representative...... 34.00
Carmel...................................No. 680....James R. Zuck, Master.................... 7.90
C. A. Watson, Past Master
Louis SuTTER,

34.40

RALPH E. SMITH,

36.00
42.98

STANLEY CHAPMAN,

JOHN W. DAVEY,
NORMAN
JOHN

7.60
35.80
35.70
34.40
34.40
31.10
18.90
34.40
34.00
34.40
39.70
39.70
2.90
35.60

w. GIESY,

s. LAMPERT,

LLOYD BENNETT,

Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

564

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

565

Senior Grand Steward, Paul Save, of America Lodge No.

ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The annual election of officers was now held, the result
being as follows :
The R.". W :·. James Thomas Fraser of Humboldt Lodge
No. 79 was elected Grand Master.
The R. ·. W. ·. Leon 0. Whitsell of Orange Grove Lodge
No. 293 was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.". W.". William H. Waste of Durant Lodge No. 268
was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W.". William B. Ogden of Hollywood Lodge No. 355
was elected Junior Grand Warden.
The V.". W.". William P. Filmer of .King Solomon's Lodge
No. 260 was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The V.". w:. John Whicher of King David's Lodge No.
209 was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.". W.". Leslie E. Wood of Provident Lodge No. 600
was re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the names of the
appointive officers, as follows:
Grand Chaplain, A. Harry Severson, of Arroyo Lodge No.
274.

442.

Grand Orator, Warren E. Libby, of Blackmer Lodge No.
.

Assistant Grand Secretary, Frank G. Hobbs, of Alexandria
Lodge No. 531.
Grand Marshal, John Alpers, of Seaport Lodge No. 550.
Grand Standard Bearer, Alexander D. Potts of le Progres
de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371.
Grand Sword Bearer, Fred A. Kelsey, of Mount Olive
Lodge No. 506.
Grand Bible Bearer, Louis Persons, of Humboldt. Lodge
No'. 79.
Senior Grand Deacon, Thomas Anderson, of Pacific Lodge
No. 136.
Junior Grand Deacon, Leo Bruck, of Jewel Lodge No. 374.

475.
Junior Grand Steward, John Gries, of Ferndale Lodge No.

193.
Grand Pursuivant, Russell C. Horstqiann, of Fruitvale
Lodge No. 336.
Grand Organist, Chas. E. Anderson, of Jewel Lodge No.
374.
Grand Tiler, Frank G. Watson, of Presidio Lodge No. 354.
He also announced the appointment of Chas. Albert Adams
to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes
of California, vice self, term expired.
The M.". W.". Dana R. Weller was appointed Master of
Ceremonies and the officers elect and appointed, excepting the
Grand Treasu.r er and the Senior Grand Steward, were installed
by the retiring Grand Master in due and .ancient form.
The newly installed Grand Master then invested his predecessor with a Past Grand Master's lapel button, in which was
set a beautiful diamond; and also invested him with the apron
of a Past Grand Master. The Chas. Albert Adams insignia was
transferred from the retiring to the encumbent Grand Master;
and the other chair officers exchanged the lapel pins.
Victor Egan, Master of Humboldt Lodge No. 79, in behalf
of his Lodge, presented to the Grand Master a brief case.
Past Grand Master Weller, then in behalf of Grand Lodge,
presented to Past Grand Master Miller a rich oriental rug.
At 2 :10 o'clock, all business be~ng completed, Grand Lodge
was closed in Ample Form.
J. T: FRASER,
Grand Master.
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

566

567

PROCEEDIN°GS OF THE

STANDING COMMITTEES
Jurisprudence-Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles;
John D. Murphey, Courthouse, Oakland; Benjamin F. Bledsoe, 639 Roosevelt
Building, Los Angeles; Francis V. Keesling, deYoung Building, San Francisco ;
·George L. Jones, Nevada City; ·Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco; John Stewart Ross, 117 West Ninth Street, Los Angeles; George John
Zeck, 370 Kensington Way, San Francisco (M. No. 212); Theodore A. Zackney
(W. No. 552), 127 Henderson Street, Eureka.
Policy and General Purposes-William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring
Stre.et, Los Angeles; Wiliiam A. Sherman, Lombard and Battery Streets, San
Francisco; Albert E. Boynton, lSS Montgomery Street, San Francisco; Will H .
Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles; Frank W. Mixter, Exeter; Bradford
Webster, 373 Moraga Avenue, Oakland; Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock
Building, San Francisco; Arthur Dewey Niles (M. No. 147), Loleta ; Atwell
T. Mor~an (W.. No. 636), 1124 Larrabee Street, Hollywood.
Grievances-Frank B. Belcher, 510 South Spring Street, Los Angeles;
Olin L. Berr.y, Bank of America Building, San Francisco; Louis Drapeau,
Ventura; Arthur W. Brouillet, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco;
Dwight W. Stephenson, 80S Washington Building, Los Angeles; A. Rothwell
(M. No. 352), 3039 W. Seventh Street, Los Angeles; Frank Reinke (W.
No. 549), 708 - 38th Avenue, San Francisco.
Finance-Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield; Frank C. Ruppel, 411 Masonic
Temple, San Francisco ; Claude H. Morrison, First National Bank, San Diego;
Walter L. Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles; Earl Warren, Courthouse, Oakland; Ormaride W. Flanagan (M. No. 597), 2611 W. 84th Place,
Los Angeles ; John Livingston (W. No. 454), 230 Jules Avenue, San Francisco.
Credentials-Louis Sutter, Anglo-California National Bank, San Francisco;
Ralph E. Smith, S87 Cypress Avenue, Los Angeles; John W. Davey, 2090 Pacific Avenue, San Francisco; Stanley Chapmari, Fullerton; Norman W. Giesy,
2619 Ivanhoe Drive, Los Angeles; Harold R. Simon (M. No. 120), 1777 Yosemite Avenue, San Francisco; F. C. Stevens (W. No. S97), 210 W. 7th Street,
Los Angeles.

Acc-ounts-(All San Francisco.) .Paul Nathan, 311 California Street,
Andrew Burke, Masonic Temple; Henry D. Oliphant, 291S Florida Street,
Oakland; Paul R. Bjick, 273 Edinburgh Street; John B. Connolly ( M. No. 630),
110 San Leandro Way; Roy Emery (W. No. 136), 950 Van Ness Avenue, Otto
G. Freyermuth, 209 Post Street.
Returns-Henry G. Mathewson, State Building, San Francisco; Albert F.
Ross, Redding; William W. McKee, 326 Chapala Street, Santa Barb~ra; Irving
Magnes, Easton Building, Oakland; Albert C. Wollenberg, 2748 Stemer Street,
San Francisco; A. B. Johnson (M. No. 474), 3SS Brentwood Avenue, San
Francisco ; Robert Bell Hood (W. No. 106), Arcata.
Necrology-Albert F. Ross, Redding; Roy Parkinson, Flood Building, San .
Francisco· Walter D. Adriance, Sa11 Luis Obispo ; Bert A. Bonnikson (M. No.
193), Fer~dale; Leonard L. Wilcox (W. No. 79) , 2414 "E" Street, Eureka.
Correspondence-Jesse M. Whited, 467 Phelan Building, San Francisco;
John C. Oslin SO Saville Street, San Francisco; William H . Parcels, 1876 West
Sixth Street 'Los Angeles ; Wallace Rohrbacker, lOOS Medico Dental Building,
Stockton· Alfred C.. Hone, 1324 Kirkham Street, San Francisco; Albert
Springer' (M. No. 470), 741 - 26th Avenue, San Francisco; Irving Keith Parker
(W. No. 193), Ferndale.
Grand Lodge Week Activities-Arthur Joel, Mills Tower, San Francisco;
Thomas Anderson, S Montecito Avenue, San Francisco; Andrew Burke, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. Other members to be announced later.
Library-T. M. Wright, 19 North Second Street, San Jose; Lee Crawford,
1800 Broadway, San Francisco; John A. Klarquist, 618 'S?uth W~stern Avenue,
Los Angeles; Philip Creedon, 732 York Avenue, ValleJo; David L. Morton,
1069... Sauth Indiana Street, Los Angeles.
· Clandestine Masonry-William A. Schreider, Mutual Life Building, Los
Angeles ; John Alpers, 547 Alvarado Street, San Francisco; Orla A. Pratt,
Calexico; Fred P. Roulard, Holland Building, Fresno; John Robinson, 1714 L
Street, Sacramento.

SPECIAL COMMITTEES

Charters-Lee T. Mullen, Security Title Insurance Building, Los Angeles;
Henry Eissler, Bakersfield; Roderick B. Cassidy, State Building, San Francisco;
Roy Bryan, 829 Longwood Avenue, Los Angeles; Charles E. Sones, El Centro;
Victor Eagan (M. No. 79), Box S43, Eureka; Roy Hampton (W. No. S66),
Room 514, 650 S. Grand Avenue, Los Angeles.

Fina~cing Building Projects-William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, ?an
Francisco·; Herbert G. Goldman, 6069 Cashio, Los Angeles; Arthur S. Cntes,
·
'
Bakersfield:

By-Laws-Oakley K. Morton, Courthouse, Riverside; Julius Gabriel, S84
California Street, San Francisco; William A. Sherwin, Broadway Arcade
Building, Los Angeles; Warren D. Gill, 706 South Broadway, Los Angeles;
Chas. Listenwalter, 37S South Rimpau Boulevard, Los Angeles; .Alden Ames
(M. No. 22), 3028 Clay Street, San Francisco; E. Anderson (W. No. 335),
SSS S. Flower Street, Los Angeles.

Masonic History-Leon 0. Whitsell, State Building, San Francisco; Mark
A. Sawrie, 1061 Mariposa Street, Berkeley ; David Tullock, Oakdale ; Roscoe
L .. .Oark, M.D., 822 Forum Building, Sacramento; Charles R. Ingra.m, ~rass
Valley; Chas'. E. Haas, Superior Court, Los Angeles; Thomas Norris, Livermore.

Pay of Members-John H. McGehee, State Capitol, Sacramento; George
K. Manheim, 440 Montgomery Street, San Francisco; Benjamin G. Wright, 740
South Olive Street, Los Angeles; F. Wesley Davies, 914S Orchard Avenue,
Los Angeles; Fred E. Snedecor, 524 Main Street, Corona; Leopold L. Detoy
(M. No. 17), 1S3 Kearney Street, San Francisco; Edward C. Binder (W.
No. 435), 22S South Hill Blvd., San Francisco.

Ritual~Grand Lecturer ~nd four Assistant Grand Lecturers.

Masonic Education-A. Heber Winder, Chairman, Riverside.; N. Perry
Moerdyke, 311 South Spring Street, Los Angeles; Delbert Berry, Bank of
America Building, San Francisco; Roy Bryan, 829 Longwood Av_enue, Los
Angeles ; Harold W. Conklin, 1800 Yosemite Road, Berkeley; Richard H.
Chamberlain, 114 Manor Drive, Piedmont; George C. Jensen, Asst. Supt. of
Schools, Sacramento.

568

Pu/Xie Schools Week-Chas. Albert Adams, 1017 Humboldt Bank Building,
San Francisco; Walter L. Bachrodt, City Superintendent of Schools, San Jose;
Arthur H. Chamberlain, Olympic Hotel, San Francisco; Roy W. Cloud, 155
Sansome Street, San Francisco; Elias E. Ellison, 1863 Eighteenth Avenue, San
Francisco; C. Burnham Heryford, 1101 West Perkins Street, Ukiah; Eiriar W .
Jacobsen, Superintendent of Schools, Oakland; Wesley W. Kergan, Russ Building, San Francisco; Joseph P. Nourse, City Superintendent of Schools, San
Francisco; Vaughan ,MacCaughey, 155 Sansome Street, San Francisco; William
G. Paden, City Superintendent of Schools, Alameda ; Virgil E. Dickson, City
Superintendent of Schools, Berkel.e r; Robert A. Odell, 524 Van Nuys Building,
Los Angeles; John B. Beman, Pacific Southwest Bank Building, Los Angeles;
Stedman Smith, 610 South Broadway, Los Angeles; Melvin E. Bowman, Principal, Franklin School, Santa Barbara; L. E. Chenoweth, City Superintendent
of Schools, Bakersfield; A. R. Clifton, County Superintendent of Schools, Los
Angeles; Will C. Crawford, City Superintendent of Schools, San Diego; Percy
R. Davis, City Superintendent of Schools, Santa Monica; Dr. Walter V. Goodfellow, Guaranty Building, Hollywood; F. A. Henderson, City Superintendent
of Schools, Santa Ana; J. L. House, Principal Central High School, El Centro;.
Frederick F. Martin, City Superintendent of Schools, Redondo Beach; Charles
E. Teach, City Superintendent of Schools, San Luis Obispo; James T. Montano,
1211 Detwiler Building, Los Angeles; E. B. Skinner, 107 Berkeley Way,
Whittier.

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
Endowment Board-Frank M. Smith, Hall of Justice, Los Angeles; Wil·
liam Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street, Los Angeles; Edmund A.
Lockett, 552 South Raymond Street, Pasadena; Robert B. Gaylord~ Russ
Building, San Francisco; ·Theodore M. Wright, 19 North Second Street, San
Jose; Joe L. Shell, Southern Title Building, San Diego; Reynold E. Blight, 756
South Broadway, Los Angeles; Harry F. White, Fresno; John F . Pullen, State
Library Building, Sacramento; Louis C. Drapeau, 343 Sansome Street, San
Francisco; Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield; Eugene S. Elkus, 485 California
Street, San Francisco ; Ernest G. Bashor, 600 Edwards-Wildey Building, Los
Angeles; Halcott C. Thomas, 457 South Spring Street, Los Angeles; Rollie W.
Miller, Associated Realty Bldg., .Los Angeles.
Trustees Masonic Homes-Chas. M. Wollenberg, President, Laguna Honda
Home, San Francisco; James B. Gist, Vice President, Security First National
Bank, Sixth and Spring Streets, Los Angeles; Samuel E. Burke, 649 South
Olive Street, Los Angeles; Chas. Albert Adams, Humboldt Bank Building, San
Francisco; Leon 0 . Whitsell, State Building, San Francisco; William H. Waste,
State Building, San Francisco; William B. Ogden, Pershing Square Building,
Los Angeles.
Board of Control-Eugene S. Elkus, 485 California Street, San Francisco;
Robert F. Callender, 348 Chamber of Commerce Building, Los Ang~les; James
R. Erskine, Box 974, Fresno; Frank Tade, Farmers .and Mechanics Building,
Sacramento; Frank M. Wise, 330 Colorado Avenue, Santa Monica.

569

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES.
With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5937
Charter
Lodge

No.

Location

Issued

Mem·

Ami.
Fees

Fees

Dues

bers

1 California - -- - - - - 1 San Francisco ---·- 1850 100 20.00 12 622
50
6 .00
9 106
2 Shasta --~ 1850
2 Western Star
75 10.00
9 443
3 Tehama - - - - - - - - 3 Sacramento _ _ 1850
50
1~ . ~~
4 Benicia - - - - - - - - 5 Benicia -------- 1850
75
2.00
8 Sonora ------- 1850
5 Tuolumne - - ·
50
9 281
6 Corinthian - - - - - - 9 Marysville - - - - - 1850
50
9 457
7 San Jose - - - - - - - - 10 San Jose ------- 1850
60
12 265
8 Yount ----------- 12 Napa --- ---------- 1851
Nevada
City
-----1851
50
9 139
13
9 Nevada ____
40
2.00 12 107
14 Sonoma - - ----- 1851
10 Temple
50
9 198
11 Eureka ·------------- 16 Auburn -------------- 1851
12 La Parfaite Union ..----- 17 San Francisco--·------- 1852 100 15.00 I! 149
30
9
40
13 Mountain Shade_______ 18 Downieville - ----- 1852
80
12. 579
14 San Joaquin ·------~ 19 Stockton ----------- 1852
75 10.00
9 516
15 Washington ---------- 20 Sacramento ------------ 1852
80 10.00 12 340
16 Hawaiian -----~------ 21 Honolulu, H. T ..... 1852
San
Francisco
_____
1852
100
25.00
12
793
. _ ___ 22
17 Occidental' _ _
53
10 180
18 Madison ------------ 23 Grass Valley' ------ 1853
50
5,00
9 161
19 Mariposa ---------------- 24 Mariposa ~----------- 1853
30
9
55
25 Georgetown ------ 1853
20 Georgetown
Placerville
_
_
_
1853
50
5.00
9 ·174
26
21 El Dorado
Weaverville
_
_
_
1853
50
5.00
9
90
22 Trinity - - - - - - 27
30 San Francisco ___ 1853 100 10.00 12 674
23 Golden Gate .
50
LOO
9 100
24 Gold Hill - - - - - - - - 32 Lincoln - - - - - - 1853
50
4.00
9
39
25 Ophir - - - - - - - - - 33 Murphy's .....,..._.--. 1853
. 1853
80
8.00 12 565
35 San Diego
26 San Diego
Yreka -----------~------ 1854
50
LOO
9 197
27 Howard ------------------ 37 Santa
Cruz __ .....___ 1854
80
LOO 12 319
28 Santa Cruz -------------- 38
75 10.00 12 543
40 Sacramento ___ 1854
29 Sacramento
50
12 ~11
30 Martinez------------- 41 Martinez ------------- 1854
50 10.00 9
31 Los Angeles ------------------ 42 Los .Angele•.,---·------- 1854
32 Hiram ------------- 43
4:0
33 Mount Moriah - - - - - - 44
50
6.00
9 140
34 Crescent ------------ 45 Crescent City ---------- 1854
Juan -------------- 1854
30
LOO
9
42
. 35 Texas ------------ 46 San
30
9
59
50 Forbestown _ _ _ 1854
36 Forbestown - --Colfax - - - - - 1854
50
9
71
37 Illinoistown - - -- - - 51 Suisun
_ _,__ ______ 1855
50
12 134
55
38 Suisun -~
30
5.00
9
~~
Volcano _ _ _ 1855
39 Volcano - - - -- - - - 56
75
5.00
9 3
40 Santa Rosa - - -- - 57 Santa Rosa ----- 1855
75 10.00
9 52~
58 Sacramento ___ 1855
41 Union ___
· 55
~ ~
59 Camptonville ------ 1855
42 Gravel Range
50
~:~g 2 944
43 Plumas -~------- 60 Quincy --~-~-- 1855
50
9 117
61 Oakland - - - - - - 1855
44 Live Oak __
50
5.00
9 73
45 Natoma --- - - - - - - 64 Folsom ---------- 1855
50
7
46 Amador - ------ - - - - 65 Jackson ----------------- 1855
50
47 Forest ---------------- 66 Alleghany ·----------- m~
80
12 231
48 Morning Star ------- 68 Stockton ------ --50
5.00
49 Enterprise ---------------70 Yuba City------------- 1855
76
Angel's
Camp
-----·1855
50
3.00
9
50 Bear Mountain --------- 76
4
50
5.00
9
~O
51 Calaveras - - - - - - 78 San Andreas ____ 1855
75
18 3
52 Humboldt - - - - - 79 Eureka --·------- 1855
72
50
9
53 lone - - - - - - - - - - - 80 Ione ·------------------ 1856
--------- --- 1856
30
9 1,~~
81 Yolo
54 Yolo - - 50
9
84 Red Bluff ____ 1856
55 Vesper
50 10.00
9 618
Vallejo ____ _ 1856
56 Naval - - - - - - - 87
50
5.00
9 3~
57 Rose's Bar -- -- - - 89 Smartsville - ---- 1856

~!n°;;:~s~;==:::=:

m: 1~~ ~g:gg 1i

1

\

o;

9

1i 417

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

570

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

MemFees Dues be re

Ami.

58 North Star --- - - -- - 91 Fort Jones ____ 1856
3' 5.00 9 49
59 St. Helena --- - -- --- 93 St. Helena --- ------ 1856
50
1.00 12
85
Sutter
Creek
___
__
_
1856
60 _ Henry Clay - - - - - - 95
60
12
52
61 Hornitos ---------- 98 Hornitos - -- ------ 1856
65 10.00 10
85
62 Yosemite ------------ 99 Merced ---------- -------- 1856
50
15 239
63 Clay _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _101 Dutch Flat -- ------- 1856 . 50
9
65
64 Oroville - - - - - - - 1 0 3 Oroville -------- ------- 1856
50
5.00 12 243
Lexington
_______
104
65
55
1.00
El Monte ------------ 1856
9 179
66 Arcata ------106 Arcata ------------------ 1857
55
3.00
9 185
67 Pajaro
110 Watsonville ----- ---- 1857
50 10.00 15 240
68 Chico
111 Chico -- -------50 10.00 12 326
1857
69 Summit
112 Knight's Ferry _ ____ 1857
50
5.00
9
42
70 Eden ---------~--113 San Leandro ----- 1857
80
5.00 12 205
71 Concord ---~-117 Sacramento ------- 1857
75 10.00
9 232
Clinton
19 Consolidated with Western Star No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936
73 Fidelity
120 San Francisco----- 1858 100
5.00 15 577 •
74 Alamo
122 Walnut Creek __ 1858
80
5.00 12 137
75 Sotoyome - - - - - 1 2 3 Healdsburg ------ 1858
75
5.00 12 155
76 Table Mountain
124 Cherokee --------- -- 1858
80
1.00
9
85
77 La Fayette -------126 Sebastopol ------------- 1858
50
9 182
_
_
_
_
_
_
127
78 Hermann
San Francisco ------- 1858 100 20.00 12 212
79 Visalia : ________128 Visalia ----------------- 1859
50
8.00 12 300
80 Nicolaus -----------129 Wheatland ------------ 1859
50
5.00
9
86
81 Woodbridge _______131 Woodbridge - --------- 1859
50
5.00
9 105
82 Sincerity --------132 Greenville ------------ 1859
50
5.00
9
97
83 Vacaville - - ------134 Vacaville ---------- 1859
75
9 152
84 Valley
135 Linden ------------- - 1860
50 12.00
9
68
85 Pacific
136 San Francisco -----·- 1860 100 20.00 12 665
86 Crockett
139 San Francisco ___ 1860 100 25.00 12 638
87 Curtis
140 Cloverdale - ----- 1860
75
9
68
88 Grafton
141 Knights Landing ._ 1860
30
5.00
71
9
89 Franklin
143 Courtland ------ 1861
1.00 18
75
95
90 Oriental
144 San Francisco _____ 1861 100 25.00 12 442
91 Vitruvius
45 Bloomfield ------------ 1861
30
1.00
9
92
92 Abell
50
8.00 12 159
146 Ukiah ----- -------- 1861
93 Eel River - - - - - - - 1 4 7 Fortuna ------------- 1861
5-0
9 172
94 Lassen - - - - - - - 1 4 9 Susanville ------------- 1862
60 12.00 . 9 164
95 Molino --~--150 Tehama - ------ ------- 1862
50
1.00 12 119
96 Woodland --------156 Woodland ------- ----- 1863
50
9 247
97 Keystone - - - - - - 1 6 1 Milton --------------- 1863
30 10.00 12
25
98 Harmony -------164 Sierra City ----------- 1864
30
5.00
9
15
99 Excelsior __
166 Saa Francisco ------ 1864
50 10.00 12 522
100 Alameda
1157 Centerville - - - - 1864
50
5.00 12 130
101 Redwood City
168 Redwood City____ 1864
50
1.00 18 275
102 Mission
69 San Francisco ___ 1864 100 5.00 12 736
103 Elk Grove
173 Elk Grove ------- 1865
50 10.00 . 9 102
104 Drytown
174 Plymouth -------- 1865
30
5.00
9
30
105 Antioch
175 Antioch ----------- 1865
50
5.00 12 138
106 Phoenix - - · -----178 San Bernardino._______ 1866
55
3.00
9 450
107 Mendocino
179 Mendocino --------- 1866
50
5.00
9 123
108 Petaluma ----------180 Petaluma -------------- 1866
80
5.00
9 278
109 Russian River - - - - 1 8 1 Windsor --------------- - 1866
50
1.00
9 104
110 Arbuclcle - - - - - - 1 8 2 Arbuclcle ------------- 1867
50
1.00 12
72
Lower
Lake
_
____________
1867
111 Clear Lalce ------183
50 10.00
9
39
112 Sierra Valley - - - - 1 8 4 Sierraville -------------- 1867
50
9
37
113 Claiborne ----------185 Point Arena --------- 1867
50
5.00 12
54
114 Evening Star
186 Etna Mills ______ 1867
50
9
42
Keith
__
115
87 Gilroy ------ ----- 1868
50
1.00 15 159
116 Oalcland ---188 Oalcland ------- ---- 1868
50 25.00 12 800
117 Northern Ligh
190 Millville - - - - - - 1868
35
3.00
9
80

•

571

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Lodge

118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177

Marin _ __ _ _ _191
Santa Barbata _ _ _ _ 192
Ferndale _______l93
Mountain View _____ _194
_________ 195
Buckeye
San Simeon ___________l96
Wilmington _______ 198
Hartley ~-------199
Truckee ___
200
201
Silveyville __
Pentalpha ___ __ _..,202
Confidence - -- - 203
•204
Salinas
05
Olivet
06
Stanislaus
07
Anaheim
Rio Vista ___ __---208
King David'•-- - ------ 209
Friendship _______210
San Benito _____ _ ---211
So. San Francisco ________212
San Buenaventura __--214
15
Oak Grove - Doric _ _ _ _ _ _--216
17
- -Monterey________
____ 218
Mosaic
Speranza ltaliana ___ __219
220
Downey
221
Inyo
Roseville - - - -- . _ _ 222
224
Bakersfield
Brooklyn ___
25
San Mateo ______ __.226
Athens ---------228
29
Solano --·-North Butte _____---230
Covelo _ _ _
31
32
Janesville
Calistoga ____ _____z33

--

Hope -----------234
Surprise Valley____ __z3 5
Hill's Ferry
36
Guadalupe
37
40
Colusa
41
Santa Ana
42
Magnolia
Eucalyptus -~----243
244
Alcatraz
45
Laurel - - - - Pomona ---------246
Fresno ---------247
Alturas ----------248
Adin ----------250
Landmark --------..253
Reading - - - -----254
Welcome --- - --- ---255
Lodi - ·-- -- ------256
Penrhyn - - - - - - ---258
Evergreen - - - - - - -- 259
King Solomon's -----260

Location

Charter
Issued

San Rafael - - --- - 1868
Santa Barbara __ _ 1868
Ferndale ----- - 1869
Mountain View______ 1869
Winters --------------- 1869
Cambria -------- 1869
Wilmington -------- 1869
Lakeport ------------ 1869
Truckee --------------· 1869
Dixon ---------- 1869
Los Angele•-------- 1869
Castroville ____ 1869
Salinas - - --- 1869
Corning _ _ _ 1870
1870
Modesto
Anaheim - --- - 1870
Rio Vista - -- - 1870
San Luis Obispo____ 1870
San Jose ------ --- - 1871
Hollister -------- 1871
San Francisco-------· 1871
Ventura --- ----------- 1871
Alameda -------------- 1871
San Francisco -------- 1871
Monterey ---- 1871
Livermore ---~------ 1872
San Francisco ---~ 1872
Downey _ _ _ 1872
Independence - -- - 1872
Rooeville
1912
Bakersfield _ _ 1873
East Oakland ___ _ 1873
San Mateo - ------- 1873
Davis ---'------- - - 1873
Vallejo - - ----- 1873
Gridley -------------· 1873
Covelo -------------- 1874
Lassen -------------- 1874
Calistoga ----------- 1874
Beckwith----------- 1874
Cedarville - - -'--- 1874
Newman - - --- 1874
Guadalupe _ _ 1874
1875
Colusa
Santa ~a _ __ 1876
Santa Barbara - - 1876
Haywards - - - 1876
West Oakland---- 1877
Willows ---------- 1877
Pomona - -·-- --- - 1877
Fresno ----------------- 1878
Alturas ------------ - 1878
Adin -------------- 1878
Esparto -------------- 1879
Redding --- - - ---- 1879
Lemoore - ---- --- 1879
Lodi -- - ------ 1879
Penrhyn - ------- 1880
Riverside ------- 1880
San Francisco ---- 1880

Fees

80
75
50
50
50
30
80
30
60
60
50
40
75
50
)0
50
50
80
50
30
75
50
75
100
75
50
105
30
50
50
100
80
50
30
50
50

Ami.

Fees

5.00

5.00
5.00
20.00

1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
10.00
35.00
5.00
2.50

4.50
10.00

40
50
35
50
30
80
50
50
75
75
50
50
50
50
80
40
70
35
50
50
50
30
50
50

1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
1.00
3.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
3.00
3.00
1.00
1.00
8.00
3.00
15.00

MemDues bere

12
15
9
9
12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
12
12
16
12
12
9
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
18
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
12
12
15
12
9
18
12
9
12
15
9
12
9
9
9
12
12

442
217
132
182
102
95
290
157
109
135
589
28
278
107
335
267
95
308
533
133
248
248
549
510
144
125
376
184
68
271
423
566
228
112
426
113
46
71
68
. 66
61
92
59
150
447
223
213
498
151
306
527
139
57
94
175
106
277
108
506
687

572

PROCEEDINGS O~' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

No. •

178 Twcan l .

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

Allll.

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Mem-

Fees Dues bel9

61 Williams - - -12· 27
1880
50
179 Lompoc
262 Lompoc --- -- - 1881
50 1.00 9 116
180 Hesperian
64 Santa Maria -------- 1882
50
1.00 12 224
181 Orland
Orland ---------- ----- 1882
50
2.00 9 113
182 North East -·--~66 Fort Bidwell __ __
1882
30 5.00 9 50
183 Galt
67 Galt - - ---- ----- 1883
30
9 62
184 Durant --------268 Berkeley
----·----1883
80 10.00 9 605
185 Olive Branch ___
69 Tulare
1883
50
18 190
186 Snow Mountain
271 Stony Ford _ __ 1884
30
1.00 9 36
187 Pasadena _ _,.______2.72 Pasadena--- - - 1884
50
12 516
188 Anchor _
---173 Compton - -·---- 1884
80
12 252
189 Arroyo · 1
74 Arroyo Grande_____ 1884
35 6.00 12
79
. 190 Oakdale
75 Oakdale ----··-- 1884
50
1.00 9 114
191 Selma
277 Selma ---·--·---·---- 1885
50 12.00 9 155
192 Southern California ____.......278 Los Angeles____________ 1885
50 15.00 12 558
193 Hanford
79 Hanford _ _ _ 1885
50
12 143
194 Madera
280 Madera ----- - 1885
50
3.00 12 161
195 Mount Shasta -----281 Anderson _ _ _ 1886
30
12 6l
196 Callayomi ___
82 Middletown _ __ 1887
30 5.00
9
61
!97 South West.------283 National City _____ 1887
50
1.00 9 162
198 San Migqel __
85 San Miguel_·__ 1887
30
10.00
12
57
199 Paso Robles __ _ ._____z86 Paso Robles.________ 1~87
50 3.00 9 109
200 Winnedumah -.,..----287 Bishop - ·------ ---·- 1887
50
20 105
201 Maxwell
88 Maxwell -----·--- 1888
50
9
52
202 Elsinore
289 Elsinore ------··---- 1888
30
12 100
203 East Gate - - ··-·- ....--290 Los Angeles________ 1888
50 10.00 9 771
204 Santa Paola
91 Santa Paula ____ 1888
50
15 267
205 Los Gato$ __
9Z Los Gatos
1888
50
12 190
206 Or~ge Grove.
93 Orange _
1889
75
1.00 12 190
207 Traver....,_
9.of Kingsburg ------ 1889
50
10 99
208 Mt. Jaclc:ron
9~ Guerneville ----- - 1889
30
12 120
209 Silver Gate
296 San Diego-- -- 1889
80
12 569
210 Dunsmuit
-297 Dunsmuir----------- 1889
50
12 198
211 Liberty --· ~--299 Santa Clara .........._ 1890
50
9 226
212 Redlands _
00 Redlands - - - 1890
75
9 354
213 Ontario .;..-- - - - ---301 Ontario _'.______ _ 1890
50
9 212
214 Santa Lticia__________ 302 Kings' City ___ 1890
40
24 104
215 Porten>ill~ --··-··303 Porterville _ ___ 1890
50
9 285
216 Reedley--·
04 Reedley - -- 1891
50
9 134
211 Azusa
05 Azwa --- - - - -- 1891
50
12 166
218 Ashlar
06 Colton - ··----- ---- 1891
50
9 162
219 Santa Monica -----307 Santa Monica ···-- 1891
80
12 257
220 Monrovia
08 Monrovia _ ___ _ 1891
50
12 236
221 Delano ·.
09 Delano ------ - - 1892
50
9 160
222 Sisson - - ---'---310 Mount Shasta
---- 1892
50
2.00 9
67
223 Los Banos
12 Los Banos _ _ _ 1892
75
12 132
224 Tehachapi -·
13 Tehachapi - - - 1892
75 1.00 9 160
225 T etnescal ·-· ___
14 Corona · - --- - 1893
50 2.00 12 130
226 Norwalk - - - : - - - 3 1 5
30
Norwalk ----------- 1893
9 116
227 Sanger __
16 Sanger -- - - - - -- 1893
50
9 151
228 Fall rook ·
17 Fallbrook - - - 1893
30 5.00 9
54
229 Emmanuel
18 Biggs --------·-- 1893
50 5.00 9 7Z
230 Hollenbeck
Los
Angeles.
_
_
_________
_
1894
...-319
50 10.00 9 1172
231 South Gate
-320 Los Angeles _ _ 1894
50
9 657
232 Alisal
21 Pleasanton - - - 1894
50
9 105
233 Alhambra - -·-322 Alhambra ____ 1894
50
9 380
234 Whittier --_;_,_,...--323 Whittier
1895
50
9 439
235 Corona _ _
24 Pasadena - -- - - - - 1895
70 8.00 12 524
236 Consuelo •...
325 Escondido - --· _ 1895
50
9 147
237 Needles...:....
3-:26 Needles --- ------ ---- 1896
75 1.00 12 213

_________u,

"

573

Lodge

238
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297

No.

Long Beach _ _ _-327
---328
Redondo
Vallee de France_______ -329
330
Kilauea
Pacific Grove
..331
San Pedro
32
Alta ------~H
Covina
3'4
West Gate
35
-336
Fruitvale
Carquinez - - - - - 3 3 7
San Jacinto ----·-·---338
Fullerton
---339
Oxnard __
41
San Fernando
343
Starr King ..
344
..345
Brentwood
Palo Alto.
---346
McKinley - - - - - 3 4 7
San Bernardino_____ ___,..348
49
Sequoia
51
Palestine ---Sunset - - - - - - - 3 5 2
Pinole -~
S3
Presidio __
354
Hollywood -~----355
Mill Valley
56
Buena Park - - - - - 3 5 7
Golden State___ _ _-358
Loyalton _ ___ _ ---359
San Francisco ___---360
Fort Bragg_ _ _ _ __..361
Charity ___
62
Berkeley _ _______..363
Willits ~-~
65
66
Las Palmas
South Pasadena_ _ __-367
68
Unity --Ocean Park _ _ _---369
70
Amity Le Progres de l'Oceanie....371
7Z
Gardena
73
Veteran Jewel - . 74
Richmond ------....3~5
76
Francis Drake
Artesia
77
7'8
Mizpah
Fillmore _____ ___.:_J79
Huntington Beach - - --380
Oceanside
-381
Highland Park _ _ ___382
83
Orosi - ------384
El Centro.
85
Dinuba
Coalinga _ __ __---38'7
Parnassus
---388
Palos Verdes__________-389
Imperial _ _ __---390
East Belt ______.....J91

Location

Charter
Issued

Fees

Long Beach _ _ 1896
80
60
Redondo --- - - 1897
Los Angeles _____ 1897
50
Hilo, H. T. _ __ 1897
50
Pacific Grove_____ 1897
35
80
San Pedro - - - -·- - 1897
Bridgeport --·- -···- · 1897 . 53
Covina 50
--"--- 1898
Los Angeles_______ 1899
75
Oakland _ __
1899
50
50
Crockett - - - - - - 1899
50
San Jacinto _ _ _ 1899
50
Fullerton - - - 1900
50
Oxnard ~---- 1901
50
San Fernando._______ 1902
San Francisco ----- 1902 100
30
Brentwood - -- - 1902
54
Palo A lto - --- ------ 1902
75
Richmond ----- ----- 1902
San Bernardino __ ' 1902
55
Oakland ___ _ 1902
50
Los Angeles_..____ 1903
75
Los Angeles.__________ 1903
50
50
Pinole - - - - - 1903
San Francisco - ---·· 1903 100
50
Hollywood ·-··---·-----· 1903
Mill V alley _______ 1903
80
30
Buena Park .........- 1903
50
Los Angeles ------· 1904
50
Loyalton ·- - --1904
San Francisco ---- 1904 100
Fort Bragg __ _ _ __ 1904
50
75
Campbell - -- 1904
50
Berkeley ---·- ------- 1904
50
W illits - - ---·· 1905
80
Fresno - - - - - -- 1905
80
South Pasadena ........ 1905
75
Glendale --- --·---·· 1905
80
Ocean Park--- - 1905
San Francisco _ _ 1905
50
Honolulu, H . T._ 1905
80
55
Gardena - -- - ··-- - 1906
75
Sawtelle - - - -- 1906
50
San Francisco ------ 1906
50
San Francisco ----·- 1906
75
So. San Francisco.... 1906
50
Artesia --- - - 1906
Los Angeles______ 1906
50
50
Fillmore - -- - - 1906
Huntington Beach_ 1906
50
50
Oceanside
1906
Los Angeles________ 1907
75
50
Orosi ----··-·---···- 1907
El Centro ___________ 1907
75
50
Dinuba ------·- 1907
Coalinga ----~------ 1907 100
San Francisco ----· 1907 100
75
Long Beach - -- 1907
Imperial _ _ _ 1908
5
50
Tuolumne - · - - - 1908

Mem·
Fees Dues bers

Aft!!.

523
214
12.I
191
9 155
12 474
9 60
9 213
15 810
12 750
12 151
9 83
12 374
12 226
9 242
12 559
12 82
9 452
9 292
9 471
12 89.~
12 531
12 405
12 125
12 551
9 902
15 311
9 117
9 836
9 70
12 350
9 93
9 107
12 509
9 130
9 619
10 505
12 404
12 331
12 476
12 348
9 141
12 179
12 143
J 2 571
12 187
82
9
12 373
15 151
9 233
9 120
12 442
15
82
12 306
9 180
12 265
12 649
9 466
12 61
66
9

9
12
12.00 12
12
5.00
25.00

1.00
10.00
4.50
5.00
l.00
10.00
20.00
1.00

5.00
5.00
1.00
3.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
3.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
1.00
20.00

10.00
10.00
5.00

574

575 .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Charter

MemLodge
No.
Location
Issued
Fees
Dues bers
298 West Lal:e________,392 Los Angelea_______ 1908
50
50.00
9
995
299 Balder _
--393 San Francisco-------- 1908
50 20.00 12 499
300 University
--394 Los Angeles________ 1908
50
12 519
301 Turlock
--395 Turlock - - - 1908
80
12 162
302 Apollo - -·- - - - - - 3 9 6 Alameda - ----- --- 1908
75
1.00 12 367
303 Rising Light
.
--397 Huntington Park___ 1908
50 .
12 499
304 Fraternity --------...399 San Jose_______________ 1908
50
9 373
305 Burlingame ---------400 Burlingame ____ 1908
50
18 390
306 Bay View
401 Oakland - - - - - 1909
50
5.00
12
327
307 Brawley
402 Brawley - - - - - - 1909
75
5.00 12 126
308 Yerba Buena ______403 Oakland ------------ 1909
80
25.00
12
414
309 Glendora ________404 Glendora
---------- 1909
60
12 97
310 Moneta -~-;,.__
405 Los Angeles _____ 1909
50
12
647
311 Burbank
406 Burbank -- - - - - 1909
50
12 238
312 La Mesa __:._______407 La Mesa - ---- -' 1910
50
3.00 12 137
313 Sierra Madre
408 Sierra Madre_________ 1910
50
12 83
314 Honolulu ----------409 Honolulu ------------- 1910
80
10.00 12 226
315 Charter Roclc___________41 O Berkeley -------- 1910
80
5.00 12 408
316 Perris
411 Perris - - - - - 1910
30 3.00 9 76
317 Calexico · "·
412 Calexico - - - - - - 1910
50
5.00
12 141
318 Waucoba
413 Big Pine ---------- 1910
30
44
319 Arlington ------~414 Los Angeles ___________ 1910
50
9 292
320 Silver Trowel ----'---415 Los Angeles.____ 1910
75
5.00 12 304
321 Lindsay _:_,..- - - - - 4 1 6 Lindsay - - - - 1910
50
12 149
4l7 Clovis - - - - - - -- 1910
322 Clovis __
50
9 218
323 Elysian
4l8 Los Angeles._______ 1910
80 5.00 10 438
324 Upland ---.- ------ 419 Upland ______:________ 1911
50
3,00
9 144
325 Kerman _ .._ _ _ _420 Kerman
80
----- - - - 1911
9
50
326 Inglewood
421 Inglewood - --·- 1911
80 3.00 12 283
327 Eagle Rock·
422 Eagle Rock ----- 1911
50
12 253
328 York
423 Los Angeles._______:.., 1912
80
9 166
: _ _ _ _ _424
329 Exeter _:__
Exeter
------------1912
50
10 154
330 Holtville _._ ________425 Holtville ------ - - 1912
9
96
331 Midway
426 Taft - - - - - - - 1912
50
12 263
332 Oiino Valley_ _ _ _427 Chino - ----- - - - 1912
50
9
57
333 San Dimas
428 San Dimas _________ 1912, 50
12 108
334 Pittsburg ---- ----- 429 Pitaburg ----- - - - - 1912
75
1.00 12 137
335 McCloud :..._ _ _ _ _430 McCloud ------- 1912
50
9 108
336 Alpha - ---431 Richmond --------- 1912
75
9 409
337 Hammonton
433 Hammonton - - - 1913
50
9
68
338 Maricopa
434 Maricopa ---- - - 1913
50 20.00 9 155
339 Fairmount __________435 San Francisco
____ 1913
50
12 522
340 Claremont -----~436 Claremont
50
- ----- 1913
9
96
341 Lancaster -'-437 Lancaster ------------ 1913
60 6.00 12 112
342 Acacia
438 Los Angeles _____ 1913
50 10.00 12 67
343 Tyrian
439 M anteca ------- ----- 1913
50
12 100
,344 Standard _ _ _ __ .'._440 Oakland --- ----·-- 1914
50
12 310
345 Coronado ·
441
50
9 171
· ____442 Coronado - ------- 1914
346 Blackmer _ _ _
San Diego ------------ 1914
80
9 514
347 · Schofield
"43 Schofield Barracks,
H. T. --------- - 1914
80
5.00 9 205
348 Carpinteria --· -- --444 Carpinteria ------ 1914
50
9
76
349 Wilshire _ .
445 Los Angeles __.______ 1914
75 20.00 12 521
350 La Puente _
446 Puente - --------- 1914
50
1.00 9
67
351 Torrance
447 Torrance - - - - 1914
50
15 199
352 Mc. Diablo - - - --448 Concord -- - - - 1914
80
5.00 12 157
353 Park
449 San Francisco ____ 1914
75 10.00 12 450
354 Van Nuy~
450 Van Nuys --------- 1914
50 3.00 9 244
355 Mont,ebello , ------451 Montebello ----------- 1914
50 3.00 9 229
356 San Pasqual__. - - ---452 Pasadena _ _ _ _ 1914
70
12 356
Allll.
Fees

,,

Lodge

357
358
359
360
361
362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
398
399
400
401
402
403

404
405
406
407

408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416

No.

453
Bethlehem
Crocker _________454
Golden West______ _ _455
457
Ramona
Henry S. Orme _____ 458
Riverbank _
____459
Mount Oso _______460
Argonaut ,_________461
462
Paul Revere
Morgan Hi1L_ _____ __463
Alta Vista_ ___ ___464
Center ___. _ _____465
466
Libertas ------ --Culver City
467
468
Rockridge - Yorba Linda _
469
Lincoln ----~-----470
71
Delta --472
Maui
473
Blythe
474
Victory
_ _.__ _475
America
476
Coachella
Temblor
477
Thousand Oaks_ ____478
Golden Rule _ _ _ __ 479
_ 480
____ ___
Fellowship
Mt. Davidson --~481
Clarence F. Smith______ 482
483
Bell
Albert Pike _ ______484
Chowchilla _______485
486
Caledonia ---Vallejo
487
488
Patterson - - East Bay
489
Corcoran -----------~ 490
Woodstock
_._49i
Garvanza _ _ _ _ _492
Atascadero
493
.494
Acorn - - - Lebanon ·----- - - - 4 9 '
496
Riverdale
Fremont _ _ __
497
Stockton
498
Capital City______
. _ _499
Roosevelt
500
. 01
Westwood.
Harbor
--502
03
Point - - 504
Seaside - -- ·
Silver Cord __
05
Mount Olive _______ 506
El Segundo ---------507
Joppa _ __ _ ____508
Benjamin Franklin _ __ 509
Cupertino
510
Sunnyvale _ _____511
Palms -----.-~12
13
Cahuenga

-

Charter

Mem-

Issued

Fees

Aftll.
Fees

San Francisco _ _ 1915
Daly City · -------- 1915
San Francisco _ ___ 1915
Monterey Park___ 1915
Los Angelea______ 1915
Riverbank - - --- 1915
Tracy ------·- - - 1916
San Francisco _____ · 1916
San Francisco _ _ 1916
Morgan H ill.____ 1916
San Francisco ___ 1916
Fresno ----- - ------ 1916
Bakersfield ____ 1917
Culver City ____ 1917
Oakland - - - 1917
Yorba Linda ___ 1918
San Francisco _ __ 1918
Stockton - - ----- 1918
Kahului, H. T, __ 1918
Blythe --------- 1919
San Francisco ___ 1919
Los Angeles____ 1920
Coachella - - -- ---- 1920
Fellows - - ---- 1920
Berkeley - - - - -- 1920
San Jose - - - - 1920
Oakland -~--- 1920
San Francisco - --- 1920 ,
Los Angeles ____;_ 1920
Bell ----- - - - 1920
Los Angeles_____ 1920
Chowchilla --- ----- 1920
Bakersfield - ----·- 1920
Vallejo ------- 1920
Patterson - - - - - 1920
South Berkeley __ 1920
Corcoran ·--- - --- -- 1920
Alameda ---------- 1920
Los Angeles·---- - , 1920
A tascadero _ __ 1920
Oakland - - - - 1920
San Francisco - ----- 1921
Riverdale ---------- 1921
Oakland - ------ 1921
Stockton -- - - 1921
Sacramento ~- 1921
San Francisco ___ 1921
W estwood ------- 1921
Richmond -------- 1921
Richmond ------· 1921
Long Beach ______ 1921
Santa Ana------ 1921
Los Angeles.______ 1921
El Segundo._____ 1921
San Joaquin ____ 1921
Los Angelea_____ 1921
Cupertino -~----·- 1921
Sunnyvale ------- 1921
Palms ------- - - - 1921
Los A ngeles _ __ 1921

50
50
50
50
75
30
80
80
100
50
105
80
100
75
75
50
100
80
50
50
65
75
75
50
75
75
50
75
50
50
75
50
75
50
50
75
75
50
75
50
80
100
55
50
80
75
80
35
75
75
80
50
75
50
50
50
50
50
50
50

15.00 12 310
3.00 12 265
10.00 12 462
12 210
15 530
12 7.,
6.00 12 186
12 358
10.00 12 517
1.00 9 95
12 281
9 327
12 240
12 188
5.00 12 356
12 96
10.00 12 275
12 291
12 123
9 33
5.00
15.00 12 222
25.00 12 344
9 79
15 123
5.00 13 322
9 351
1.00 12 190
18 293
9 259
9 191
15.00 12 200
1.00 12 54
12 144
10.00 9 226
2.00 12 64
12 255
10.00 12 72
1.00 12 167
10 173
53
5.00
9
10.00 12 321
10.00 12 299
2.50 12 63
1.00 ' 12 275
12 117
10.00
9 170
5.00 12 151
10.00 9 196
9 155
9 95
12.00 10 286
1.00 12 234
10.00
9 479
9 163
50
9
5.00
12 198
9 81
9 112
9 173
4.50
5.00
9 303

Location

Dues bers

576

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
432
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443

444
445
446

447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
456
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473

474
475
476

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

Argonne
14 San Francisco _ _ 1922
Vernon Square ____-515 Los Angeles_______ 1922
Taft ____
516 Taft ---------- 1922
Mount Vernon _ ___517 San Francisco _____ 1922
La Jolla - - - - - - 5 1 8 San Diego ------ 1922
19 Los Angeles _____ _ 1922
Euclid - - Ionic ___
20 Los Angeles ______________ 1922
Piedmont 21 Piedmont - - --------- 1922
Sunrise ___
22 Los Angeles______ 1922
Bellflower~
523 Bellflower - - - 1922
Catalina Island ----524 Avalon - - - - - 1922
George Washington __-525 San Francisco ------ 1922
Bay City
526 San Francisco ---- 1922
Covenant
527 Los Angeles ____ 1922
Beverly Hills
28 Beverly Hilli____ 1922
Loyalty
29 Los Angeles _____ _ 1922
Sun Garden
530 Fresno - - - - -- 1922
Alexandria
31 San Francisco ---- 1922
Smyrna
JZ Ceres --------- 1922
Azure
5)3 Fullerton ---·------ 1922
Forest Hill _ _ _ _ _534 San Francisco-------- 1922
Alexander Hamilton._______53 5 Los Angeles ...----------- 1922
Seal Rock __
536 San Francisco--------- 1922
Utopia _
37 Los Angeles ..____ 1922
Ascot
538 Los Angeles____ _ 1922
Belvedere
39 Belvedere ------ - 1922
Queen Beach
540 Long Beach - ------- 1923
Henry Morse Stephens ___541 Berkeley ------- 1923
Lankershim _
42 North Hollywood_ 1923
Signal
543 Long Beach ------ 1923
Glendale
44 Glendale -------- 1923
Jonathan
45 San Francisco ____ 1923
San Gabriel
546 San Gabriel ____ 1923
Arcadia
--547 Arcadia - - --- - 1923
Triangle _ _ _
· ~548 Venice ----------------- 1923
Justice - - · ----549 San Francisco --------- 1923
Seaport __
550 San Francisco ---------- 1923
Lakeshore __
551 Oakland - - - ------ 1923
Semper Virens - - -- -551 Eureka ---------------- 1923
Golden City
---553 San Franci.sco ------- 1923
Educator -- - - - - - 5 5 4 San Francisco--------- 1923
White Pine ___
555 Weed -------- 1923
Fairfax _
556 Fairfax - - ---- - - 1923
Hermosa _
557 Hermosa Beach _ _ 1923
Point Firmin
58 San Pedro - - -- - 1923
Craftsman
559 Los Angeles__ __ 1923
Plymouth
560 Oakland - -- -- - - 1923
East San Dieg0----561 East San Diego ___ 1923
Pyramid _
562 San Francisco ____ 1923
South Park
563 Los Angeles_________ 1923
Foothill __
564 Oakland ---------- 1923
West Adams __
565 Los Angeles_ _______ 1923
James A. Garfield----------566 Los Angeles_____ _ 1923
Searchlight
-567 Long Beach _..;____ 1923
Park Boulevard·- - - ---568 Oakland ---------- 1923
Chateau Thierrf- - -569 Oakland -- -- - - 1923
Military Service..
570 San Francisco _ __ 1923
Francis K. Shattuck______571 Berkeley -------- 1923
James Madison_ _ _ _572 Los Angeles___
1923
Hillcrest
73 Berkeley _ _ _ _ 1923

Fees

Ami.

577

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Mem-

Fees Dues bers

100
5.00 12 341
50
9 346
50
12 165
80 10.00 12 208
100
12 126
50
9 244
50 10.00 9 309
80
5.00 12 200
50
10 164
50
9 152
100
12 106
50 10.00 15 263
100 10.00 12 203
· 9 261
50
75
5.00 12 199
75
9 232
80
9 340
80
5.00 12 118
70
45
9
50
12 185
55 10.00 12 92
75
1.00 12 128
50 10.00 12 126
50
9 460
50
9 227
50
9 203
80
9
97
80
5.00
9 279
75
5.00
9 242
50
12 260
50 12.00 12 320
50
5.00 12 157
50
12 127
50
12
91
50
15 109
75 10.00 12 153
100 25.00 12 170
50
5.00 12 183
50
12 126
50
5.00 12 73
80
5.00 u 174
2.00
87
55
9
12 106
55
12 129
60
80
12 257
50
9 zoo
50
1.00 12 184
60
9 239
50
1.00 25 176
50
9 299
5.00 12 240
80
12 217
50
100 30.00
9 135
80
9 318
12 201
50
50
1.00
177
100 10.00 12' 257
5.00
75
9 174
50
9 159
5t!
12
57

Charter
Ie.•ued

Fees

574 San Diego - - - - 1923
575 Fall River Mills___ 1923
El Cajon Valley_--..-576 El Cajon------- 1923
__577 Los Angeles-----~--- 1923
Sunnyside
Progressive
578 Los Angeles_____________ 1923
Warren G. Harding _____:;79 North Sacramento____ 1924
Santa Maria__________580 Ramona ------ · 1924
_ __581 Bakersfield ----- 1924
Security
Rialto
582 Rialto ------------ 1924
Wasco_
~583
Wasco ------------ 1924
Harding _
584 Los Angele•-·----- 1924
Los
Angeles_______ 1924
585
Manchester Garden Grove__ _ _ _586 Garden Grove______ 1924
Valley Forge
8'1 Los Angeles_ _ _ 1924
El Sereno
588 Los Angeles ______ 1924
589 Lihue, T. H, _ _ 1924
Kauai
Compass
90 Pomona - -- - 1924
Escalon
591 Escalon --------- 1924
Tujunga
592 Tujunga ------------ 1924
All States
593 Long Beach------ 1924
Service ~-----594 Long Beach ______ 1924
Alexander Graham Be!L_595 Los Angeles---· 1924
____596 South Gate ______ 1924
Guardian
Truth ____
_597 Los Angeles------------- 1924
Pearl Harbor___ _ __ 598 Honolulu, T. H,_____ 1924
Carmelita __
99 Pasadena - - ----- 1924
600 Lynwood - - - - 1924
Lynwood
Grizzly
601 Portola - - - - - - 1925
602 Los Angeles _____ 1925
Melrose
1925
603 Oaldand Dimond
604 Santa Ana - - - 1925
Jubilee
Glassell Park________605 Los Angele•-- - - - 1925
607 Monrovia ---- ------ 1925
Sojourner
608 Alhambra ---------- 1925
Granada
609 Sacramento - ------ 1925
Provident
.610 Oakland __ _ __ 1925
Elmhurst
611 Canoga Park_______ _ 1925
Canoga
Temple City _ _ _ _ _612 Temple --~------------- 1925
Three Pillar1________6 l3 Sacramento -------- 1925
Larchmont _
14 Los Angeles------ 1925
Hemet
615 Hemet --------- 1925
R. E. Dolley_______--616 Seal Beach - - - - 1925
Big Bear_
617 Pine Knot - - - - - 1925
Southland
........618 Los Angeles________ 1925
Neptune
19 Long Beach _ _ _ 1925
Point Loma __ _----620 San Diego - -------- 1925
621 Los Angeles _____ 1925
The Gardena
Atwater
22 Los Angeles _______ 1925
Menorah
623 Los Angeles ________ 1925
624 Oakland - - - - - 1925
Fortitude
Angeles Mesa _ _ __ ........625 Los Angeles ____ _____ 1925
Chula Vista _______________626 Chula Vista _____________ 1925
Lamanda Park______ _.:_____627 Pasadena - - ------- 1925
Beacon of the West ______628 Los Angeles _______ 1926
-- 1926
Fairview
29 Inglewood - ___ 630 San Francisco - - -- 1926
Ingleside
Los
Angeles
_
_______
__ 1926
631
Benevolence
Normal Heights ______632 San Diego-------- 1926
633 San Buenaventura ___ 1926
Poinsettia
Victorville _
634 Victorville _ _ _ 1926

80
50
50
50
75
75
30
100
55
80
70
5-5
50
50
50
75
70
50
50
80
75
50
50
511
80
70
50
50
50
80
50
50
50
50
75
80
50
50
75
50
30
45
30
75
75
75
50
50
75
50
50
50
50
50
80
50
80
60
50
55

Lodge

477 S. W. Hackett
478 Fort Crook
479
480
481
482
483

484
485
486

487
488
489
490
491
492
493

494
495
496

497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
. 536

No.

Location

AmL

Fees

MemDues here

9
12
12
4.50 . 12
15.00
9
9
12
12
9
12
25.00 12
20.00 12
1.00
9
12.50
9
12
10.00 12
2.00 12
12
9
9
9
5.00 12
12
5.00 12
15.00 12
12
12
10.00
9
10.00 12
1.00 12
1.00 12
9
12
9
10.00
9
1.00 12
1.00 9
12
10.00
9
15.00 18
9
12
30.00 12
5.00 12
9
9
9
12.00
9
12
5.00 12
9
1.00 10
12
1.00 12
23.00 12
12
12
12
12
9
1.00

190
69
61
259
264
146
49
181
84
108
153
208
92
183
140
98
135
76
107
267
294
164
251
98
181
175
105
94
119
185
143
227
87
264
131
127
115
113
147
174
76
51
42
176
123
97
193
158
287
122
310
99
112
103
96
100
177
177
260
103

578

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

579

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
ChRrter
Aftll.
MemLodge
No.
Location
Issued Fees Fees Dues be rs
537 Riverside _ ----635 Riverside ------- - 1926
50
9 162
538 John Marshall _:-~---636 Los Angeles __________ 1926
80
12 99
539 Palisades
_-.:.637 Santa Monica __ __ 1926
80
12 172
540 Indian Rock
638 Berkeley ------- 1926
80
5.00 12 103
541 Composite -------639 Los Angeles____ 1926
75 10.00 12 136
542 Vericas
640 San Francisco _ _ 1926 100 10.00 12 76
543 James A. Foshay________641 Los Angeles ..________ 1926 105
12 77
544 La Cumbre - - - - - 6 4 2 San ta Barbara ____ 1926
75
15
72
545 Alta Loma _______-643 Signal Hill._______ 1926
75
15 230
546 Lomita
44 Lomita ------- 1926
60
12
98
547 A. F. E. Irwin._ _ _645 San Pedro _ _ _ 1926
80
5.po 12 133
548 Metropolitan - - - - 6 4 6 Los Angeles___
· _ 1926
50
12
90
549 Hawthorne
47 Hawthorne ----- 1926
80 3.00 9
53
550 Damascus
648 San Bernardino ......_ 1926
75
5.00
9 191
551 Florence
649 Los Angeles ________ 1927
50 4.50 9 177
552 La Brea
650 Los AnieleL____ 1927
50 10.00 9 181
553 Menlo Park _ _ _ _651 Menlo ark _____ 1927
50
4.50 12 71
554 Crescenta Valley
652 Montrose
1927
55
9 106
555 Fontana
'
..653 Fontana - - - - 1927
55 10.00. 9
84
556 Jordan
654 Los Angeles ____ 1927
50
9 139
557 Monte Vista _ _ _ _ _655 Long Beach ....._ _ 1927
50
12 227 '
558 Citro! --·------··---·-- 656 Brea ····-·,-·····------ 1927
50
1.00 12 121
John
D.
Spreclcels
___________
657
559
San Diego --·------- 1927
80
12 274
560 Livingston - - --------- 658 Livingston ···-··--·- 1927
50
15 64
561 La Habra .
659 La Habra________ 1927
50
12 102
562 Baldwin Park.
660 Baldwin Park___ 1927
50
12 60
563 Malta
661 Los Angeles _ __ 1928
50
99
9
564 Henry Knox
662 Los Angeles _ _ _ 1928
75 10.00 9 188
565 Ojai._____
663 Ojai ··-·········--- 1928
45
15
49
566 Oasis -~------664 El Centro_______ 1928 Consolidated with 384
567 Kaweah ____________665 Woodlake ··-···-···- 1928
75
10
56
568 Reseda ------------:....:.666 Reseda ····-········-- 1928
75
9 73
569 Meridian
667 Glendale ·-- - - - - 1928
12 168
75
570 San Gorgonio ________668 Banning
75
1.00 12 87
- - - - - - 1928
571 John P. Jarman _ _ ___669 San Jose-- -·- ·- 1928
50
5.00 9 103
572 Greenleaf _ ______670 Whittier -·-····---- 1928
55
9 163
573 San Clemente
71 San Clemente ····-···· 1928
75
9
30
574 Laguna Beach._______;_672 Laguna Beach ·····--·- 1929
50
1.00 12 47
575 Far West____
673 San Francisco ····--· 1929
75 10.00 12 132
576 Los Cerritos _ _ _ _ _674 Long Beach -~- · 1929 105 10.00 12 83
577 Modesto ------675 Modesto - - - · - - 1929
50
9 140
578 Willow Glen ______._676 Willow Glen ··- - 1930
50
9 87
. _677 Los Angele. _____ 1930
579 Liberal Arts ___,______
50
10 71
580 Altadena "----------678 Pasadena ----··-·1930
70
12 168
581 Canbys Cross_ _____ 679 Tulelake ----·-·····- 1935
50
1.00 9 36
___680
582 Carmel
55
Carmel ········- ·----- 1935
9 46
Total Membership August 1, 1937_________________ 127,304

EXTINCT LODGES
Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
.
6 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
11 Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850, Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov.,
1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never issued.
26 Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed ~o El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt. Jefferson
No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, O ct. 15, 1891.
•
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras N o. 78, Oct. 13,
1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov., 1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8,
Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Lid. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian N o. 69, May 2,
1855.
69 Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian
No. 9, Dec., 1874.
71 Nebraska, Michigah Bar, 1855. Consolidated with lone No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Chartfr surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
·
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Di 1pensation granted 1857. Charter never issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin HUI, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka Ne rth, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. i:onsolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma
No. 180, Dec., 1898.
.
82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. M ark's No. 115,
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
'
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, Nov.,
1882.
88 Uniry, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13,-1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena, O ct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. ·8, 1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19, 1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange,- Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, O ct. 16, 1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct.; 1898.
4
4

581

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15, .1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.'
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now known
as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 24Q,
April l, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.
Doric, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never issued.
151 Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 10, 1862.
152 Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
155 Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec., 1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, •
Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never issued.
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Azdan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25,
1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No._ 77, as No. 180, Dec.,
1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never issued.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.

223 Maui, Wailulcu, H;waii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
227 Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
. N
Oc 16 1896
t. •
·
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity o.. 132,
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered Apnl 19, 1888.
252 Bodie Bodie 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
257 Arizo~a, Phc'ienix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March

580

Sof:~!!~\ombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881. Transferred
.
M h
to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
263 · Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to . jurisdiction of Arizona, arc
25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian Dunnigan 1886. Col'.solidated with Woodland No. 156, O ct. 11, 1911.
298 Mokel.'.unne Hill,' Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
311 H~~~~?:ff~:~eme, 1892. Consolidated with Ox?ard No. ~41, Oct. 16, 1902.
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesper1an No. 264, Oct. 13,
342

· · dicuon
· of Phil'1ppme
·
Isl ands'
1910. Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferee d to Juris
Manila,

Dec. 19, 1912.
di
f Ph·1· · I 1 d D
19
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to juris ·ction o
11ppme s an s, ec. '
364
371
384
386
398
432
438
456
611

Ol~~et~· Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as O livet No. 205,
1

Oct. l, 1917.
Le p
d l'O
·
O ceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T . H ., 1905. Name changed to
rogres e
cean1e
No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
Oasis No 664 1937. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, August 30, 193 7 •
Corregido~, M~ila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philipp_ine Islands,
l915
Dec. 19, 1912.
Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, .0 ct. 14,
•
.
Granite No. 222, Roclclin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432, as Roseville
No 222, May 29, 1919.
Germ:mia, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed t~ Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 18, 1925.
Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15, 1931.

!'82 •

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

583

GRAND LODGE OF CALI F ORNI A

Elected Office~s Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850.
1850
1856
1862
Jonathan D. Stevenson, G. M.

William H. Howard .. G. M. William C. Belcher ....G. M.
California No. I
Born Jan. I, 1800
Corinthian No. 69
John
A. Raymond .. D. G. M.
Died Feb. 14, 1894
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. I, 1895
John A. Tutt......_.... D. G. M. Lemuel Lyon .......•..S. G.
Caleb Fenner ...•....$; G. W. Peter W. Randle .._J , G. W. G il. B. C laiborne.... D. G. M.
Sashel Woods _____J. G. W. Addison Martin ............G. T. John W. Harville....S. G. W.
Levi Stowell ··--·······---G. T. Alex G. Abell........ ____ $. S. John B. Hewson......J . G. W.
John H. Gihon.............. G. S.
James Laidley .............. &. T.
Alex G; Abell.............. G. S.
1851
1857

w:

John A. Tutt...-.........G. M. Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
1863
Tehama No. 3
Washington No. 20
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Born Feb. 8, 1825
William C . Belcher .... G. M.
Died May 19, 1900
Died July 12, 1897
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Benj. D. Hyam ...... D. G. M.
Charles Marsh........ D. G. M. Louis Cohn ····-··-··S. G. W.
E. F. W. Ellis ····-···-S. G. W.
Benj. S. Olds ..........J . G. W. Aaro~ D. Parl.......S. G. W. Wm. A. Davies •.....J . G. W.
Towns'd A. Thomas...... G. T. John B. Pope..........J. G. W. James Laidley - ············G• T.
Levi Stowell .•..-········v-G• S. Addison Martin............G. T. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
1852
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
1864
Benjamin D. Hyam ..- G. M.
William C. Belcher .... G. M.
1858
Benicia No. 5
BornNathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M. Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Chas. M. Radcliff.. D. G. M.
Wm. A. Devies........S. G. W.
Adolphus Hollub....S. G. W. P. W. Shepheard.... D. G. M. Isaac S. Titus.. - ··- J. G. W.
J. R. McConnell ....J . G. W. Wm. McCormicL.S. G. W. James Le id ley .............. G. T.
Addi.son Mertin~.......... G. T. Jas. W. Bicknell......J . G. W. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
Levi Stowell ........•..- ..•.. G. S. Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Alex G. Abell......- - .... G. S.

1853

1865

1859

Gilbert C . Claiborne.. G. M.
Charles M. Redcliff.. G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Tuolumne No. 8
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
Born 1828
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Died Dec. I, I 908
P.
W.
Shepheard
....
D.
G.
M.
Died Dec. 31, 1889
Ebenezer
Lane
........
S.
G.
W.
W.m. A. Devies...... D. G. M.
T. A. Thomas.......... D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall....S. G. W. Thos. P. Hawley...... J. G. W. lsaec S. Titus..........S. G. W.
Richard F. Knott....J. G. W. Addison Martin ............ G. T. Henry H. Hertley..J. G. W.
Addison Martin............ G. T. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S. James Leidley ··········-··G· T.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
Levi Stowell ......•..•........ G. S.

1854

1860

1866
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
William H. Howard .. G. M.
Gilbert
C
.
Claiborne
.. G. M.
P. W. Shepheard.... D. G. M.
San Jose No. 10
Wm. C . Belcher......S. G. W. Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Born Au9. 29, 1810
Died Sept. 18, 1866
Alvinza Hayward ....J. G. W. Wm. H. Peterson....S. G. W.
Nath. G. Curtis.... D. G. M. Addison Martin ............ G. T. Thomas Beck .......... J. G. W.
Rector E. Cole......S. G. W. Alex G. Abell..............G. S. James La idley .............. &. T.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
Robt. N. Wood ...... J. G. W.
Addison Martin............ G. T.
1861
Levi Stowell .................. G. S.
1867
James L. English...... G. M.
William A. Devies ...... G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
1855
Columbia No. 28
Born June 5, 1813
W illiam H. Howard .. G. M.
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died May 29, 1889
Died June 20, 1916
T. A. Thomas...... _.. D. G. M. Wm. C. Belcher.... D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond .. S. G. W. John W. Harville....S. G. W. Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Sam. A. Merritt......J. G. W. Caleb E. Wilcoxon ..J. G. W. Thomas Beck ..........S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt....J. G. W.
Addison Martin .........._G, T.
Levi Stowell .•.•.......••._ E;, S. James Laidley - ............. G. T. James Laidley .............JS. T.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Alex G. Abell....•...- .... G. S.

1882
1868
h

1875
G. M
M.
G M John M. Browne........
.. G · M· C lay W. Taylor..........G
Charles Mars ············ · ·
Naval No. 87
Jonath. D. Hines.... D. · ·
Nevada No. 13
Born May 10, 1831
Ed m. C . Atkinson _$. G. W.
Born Dec. 6, 1825
Died Dec. 7, 1894
George Hinds ·-····J. G. W.
Died AprilP28,tt1876D G
Chas. L. W"1gg'1n.... D. G. M.
II
G T
J T" ·
S G W Moses He er................
b II
G • S•
Leonidas E. re ···· • · M·
·11 .... S. G • W
Wiley
• Neff
mn1n
......J .· G.· W.· Alex G. A1883
e ············- • •
Theo. G. Coe kr1
w· Ja
cob H.
........
Fredk. F. Bam........J . G. •
L "di
G T
di
GT James a1 ey .............. • •
GM
James Lai ey ···········•·· · ·
I G Ab II
G S Jonatha n D. Hines...... · •
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. A ex •
e ··········· -· • '
· San Buenaventura No. 214
1876
Born Jan. I, 1825
1869
Died Dec. 30, 1886
"d E p tt
G M. John M. Browne ..........G. M.
J T" •
D G M
Leo111 as . ra ········ •
. .
G. M. W iley . 1nn1n...... • • ·
Mountain Shade No. IS
Chas. L. Wiggin .... 0 • W Edm. C. At kinson ..S. G. W.
Born Au9. 29, 1833
Wm. S. WellL.......S. G. · Hira m N. Rucker....J . G. W.
Died Oct. 25,1886
Solon W. C raig ue ..J. G. W.
H II
G T
er··············G.• s.•
Isaac s. ntus.......... D. G . M. James Laidley ..............G • T. Moses
AIAx G. eAbell...
...........
John S. Ward ........S. G. W. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
Richard D.ale ..........J . G. W.
1877
1884
James La1dley -•········-··G. T.
G M Jonathan D. Hines...... G. M.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. John M. Browne.......... • . W iley J. Tinnin ...... D. G. M.
1870
Chas. L Wiggin.... D. G. M. Ed m. C. At kinson ..S. G. W
W.
. .
G M. Wm. W. Traylor......S. G. W. H"
N Rucker J G
·
Wm H C rane........J. G. W.
ira m ·
···· ·
T
Leonidas E. Pratt........ ·
lsa ·c S. Titus.......... D. G · M· Moses
• Heller................
·
G • T· Moses Heller····-·········
Ab 11
G • S•
u
,.
G• S· Alex G.
e ··············
• ·
Chas.
L. Wiggin ....S. G. W
w· Alex G. Abell..............
5
Benj. H. F_reeman....J . G. T.
1878
188
Jemes La1dley ·····-······G. ·
G M Wiley J . Tinnin.._........ G. M.
A lex G. Abell.. ............ G. S. John M. Browne.......... • ·
Trlnity No. 27
D
G
M
Born Oct.
I
1871
Wm. W. Trey or···· • • ·
Died
Nov. 7,
24, 1829
1910 ·
G. W.
D. G
G. W
M.
Leonidas E. Pratt ....- .. G • M· Wm
R bt H.
C Crene
Brod e....
r _..JS. G
W. Ed m. C . At kinson
L .. S
0
•
•
•.•.•• • G T Hiram N. Rue.er.... .
. w·
G M
Chas. L W iggin.... D. · · Moses Heller····- ········- • • Henry H. Knepp ....J. G. ·
Ben. H. Freeman ....S. G. W. Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Nathe n w. Speulding .. G. T.
Geo. CLa1
. ~erkins
......J. GG• ·
18 79
James
dley ..............
G M Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. William W. Trey or.... · ·
1886
1872
California No. I
Edmund C. Atkinson.. G. M.
Born March 17, 1822
Sacramento No. 40
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M.
Died Jan. 18, 188 3
Born Nov. 17, 1837
..
D.
G.
M.
Died March L20, 1911
Ben'·• H. Freeman.. D· G · M• Samuel C . Denson
I
S G W
D G M
Ge o. C. Perkins...~..S. G · W · Clay W. Ad
Tay or......J • G · W • Hiram· N.
.... S · G · W ·
M Rue.er
Et
J ohn M. Browne....J · G · W • .John Q.
a ms...... · G· T. Mom s . s ee
......
LI· J · G · W •
G T t.' oses He ller................ • s' Alvah R. C on• 1n.... · • •
James Laidley .:............ • • Alex G. Abell..............G. • Nathan W. Spaulding..G. ~·
Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. ·

G

"'f·

1873

r

1880

1887
Isaac S. Titus.............. G • M• Samuel C . Denson......G. M.
Hirem N. Rucker ......G. M.
Union
No. 58
San Joaquin No. 19
B
orn Sept.
23, 1839
le
Gran;
• No. 99
Born
1827
Died July 26, 1917
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Oct.
Aprtl 14,
22, 1892
M
Died
Dae.
13, 1905
L•
D· G · M' Clay W. A
TJ.lor ...... D.
G. W ·
Gao. C . Per.ms......
S G
Morris M. Estee...... D. G. M.
G
W
John
Q.
ams
......
•
.
•
B
S
Jno. M. rowne...... • . • 0 W HollenbecLJ. G. W. Alveh R. Conklin....S. G. W.
Chas. E. Mitchell ....J. G. W. M.ose; Helle r ................ G. T. Wm J ohnston........J . G. W .
James Leidley ..............G. T.
Ab II
G S
Alex G. Abe II .............. G · S· Alex G.
e ·············· · · Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
1874

1881

1888

George C. Perkins .... G. M. Clay W. Taylor..........G. M. Morris M. Estee........G. M.
Western Star No. 2
California No. I
Oroville No. 103
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Born t.lov. 23, 1834
Born Aui;i. 23, 1839
Died May I, 1897
Died Feb. 26, 1923
Died Oct. 7, 1903
·
John
Q.
Ada
ms
......
D.
G.
M.
Alvah
R. Conklin.... D. G. M.
John M. Browne.... D. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker........S. G. W. Jonath. D. Hines....S. G. W. W illia m Johnston_..$. G. W .
Mere. D. BorucL...J. G. W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ...•..J. G. W. Thos. J. Bowers...•..J . G.
James Laid ley .......•......G. T~ Moses Heller ····--:......G. ~ Nathan W . Spaulding.. G. T.
Alex
G.
Abell
......
____
.G.
S.
Alex G. AbelL........ __ G. S.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.

"'f·

585

GRAND LOO.G E OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1889

1895

1901

Morris M. Estee ......- G. M. Edward M. Preston ....G. M. William S. Wells........G. M.
Martinez No. 41
Nevada No. 13
William Johnston .. D. G. M.
Born June 24, 1861
Born May 4 1841
Chas. R. Gritman ..S. G. W.
Died Jan 23, 1919
Died April l4, 1903
Henry S. Orme______J. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas........ D. G. M. O: S. Henderson .... D. G. M.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T, Thomas Flint ...._.•..S. G. W. Chas. W. Nutting ..S. G. W.
Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S. F. M. Angellotti......J. G. W. Geo. W. Hunter ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Edward Colemen..........G. T.
George Johnson.......... G. S. George Johnson.......... G . S.
1890
Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L.
Alvah R. Conklin......G.M.
1896
1902
Inyo No. 221
Born IS35
William T. Lucas______ G. M. Orrin S. Henderson.... G. M.
Died Oct. 5, 1897
Mornino;i Star No. 68
Guadalupe No. 237
Born June 2, 1863
William Johnston __D. G. M.
Born March IS, i850
Chas. W. Nutting .. D. G . M.
Ches. R. Gritman .. S. G. W.
Died March 21, 1931
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W. Thomas Flint .......•.. D. G. M. Geo. W. Hunter ....S. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding.. G. T. F. M. Angellotti .... S. G. W. Motley H. Flint......J. G. W.
George Johnson.......... G. S. Chas. L Patton......J. G . W. Edward Coleman...•......G. T.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T. George Johnson.......... G. S.
George Johnson....- ....G . S. Wm. H. Edwards..........G . L.

1891

1903
William Johnston ••___ G. M.
Charles W. Nuttlng ....G . M.
1897
Franklin No. 143
Evenlno;i Star No. IS6
Born June 2 IS25
Thomas Flint.. ··-········G • M.
Born Oct. 3 1852
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Texas No. 46
Died Sept. lo, 1917
Chas. R. Gritman .. D. G. M.
Born May 2', 1858
Geo. W. Hunter.... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ...•-S. G. W. F. M. Angellotti .... D. G. M. Motley H. Flint ......S. G. W.
Jas. B. Stevens........J. G. W. Chas. L. Petton......S. G. W. Edw. H. Hart........ _J. G. W.
Nathen W. Spaulding.. G. T. Jas. A. Foshay........J. G. W. Edward Coleman..........G . T.
George Johnson ________ G. S. Edward Coleman..........G. T.
George Johnson .....•....G . S.
George Johnson.......... G. S. Wm. H. Ed~ards.......... G. L.
1892

1898

Charles R. Gritmen ....G. M. Frank M. Angellotti....G. M.
Yount No. 12
Marin No. 191
Born Dee. 10, 1838
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 14, 1894
Died May 23, 1932
Henry S. Orme...•.. D. G. M. Chas. L. Patton ......D. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens........S. G. W. Jes. A. Foshay........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston ______J. G. W.
Wm. S. Wells..........J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. Edward Coleman..........G. T.
Georg• Johnson _____.... G. S.
George Johnson.......... G. S.

1893

1899

1904
George W. Hunter___ G, M.
Humboldt No. 79
BornDied Oct. 14, 1925
Motley H. FlinL... D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart..........S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
George Johnson ..........G . S.
Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L.

1905

Henry S. Orme.......... G. M. Charles L. Patton ......G . M. Motley H. Flint...._....G. M.
East Gate No. 290
California No. I
So. Callfornia No. 27S
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Sorn 1865
Born March 25, IS37
Died July 14, 1930
Died
April
II,
1923
Died Nov. 2', 1912
Edward H. Hart ....D. G. M.
Jas. B: Stevens...... D. G. M. Jas. A. Foshay........ D. G . M.
Edw. M. Preston....S. G. W. Wm. S. Wells ..........S. G. W. Geo. M. Perine......S. G. W;
Reuben H. Lloyd ....J. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..........J. G. W. 0. S. Henderson....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
George Johnson..........G . S,
George Johnson..- ...... G. S. George Johnaon.......... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L

1900

1906

1894
James A. Foshay........ G. M. Edward H. Hart..........G. M.
Live Oak No. 61
James B. Stevens........G. M.
So. Callfornla No. 27S
Born 1858
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Yount No. 12
Died
Sept. 26, 1917
Died
Jan.
14,
1914
Born March 2!, 1841
Died Dee. 6, Nl9
Wm. S. Wells.......... D. G. M. Geo. M. Perine - ....D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston.... D. G. M. 0. S. Henderson ....S. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd ....S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..........S. G. W. Chas. W. Nutting ..J. G. W. Oscar Lawler ..........J. G. W.
Thomes FlinL.........J. G. W. Edward Coleman..........G. T. Edward Coleman ..........G. T.
Edward Coleman...._....G. T. George Johnson..........G . S. George Johnson..........G . S.
George Johnson..........G. S. Wm. H. Edwards____ G, L. Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L

1907

1913

1919

1908

1914

1920

C has. Albert Adams.. G. M.
George M. Perine...... G. M. John D. Murphey ....- G. M.
Excelsior No. 166
Alta
No.
313
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Pacific No. 136
Sorn July 7, 1863
Born 1852
.
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Geo.
F. Rodden ....D. G . M.
Reuben H. Lloyd ....D. G . M. Benj. F. Bledsoe......D. G. M. Sam. E. Burke......- ..S. G. W.
Alb.
G.
Burnett
.....
.S.
G.
W
.
Oscar Lawler..........S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sherman....J. G. W.
W . Frank Pierce ....J . G. W. F. V. Keesling ........J . G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer__... G. T.
Wm.
Parker
Filmer
......
G.
T.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
John Whicher .•..:•...•....G. S.
George Johnson .......... G. S. John Whicher ............ -G. S. Thomas J . Baker..........G. L
Thomas
J.
Baker
..........
G.
L.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.
George F. Roddan .... G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Dee. 24, 1867
Died Mar. S, 1934
Sam. E. Burke ...•.... D. G. M.
W. Frank Pierce ....D. G . M. Alb. G. Burnett....D. G. M. Wm. A. Sherman....S. G. W.
Dana R. Weller....- S. G. W. F. V. Keesling ........S. G . W. Arthur S. Crites......J . G. W.
A. J. Monroe..........J. G. W. W. Rh. Harvey ........J. G . W. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
Edward Colemen.......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T. John Whicher ......•..•...•G. S.
John Whicher ·········-··G. S. John Whieher ....•....•.... G. S. ThomH J. Baker...- .....G. L
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

Oscar L!lwler •...........G. M. Bani. F. Bledsoe..........G. M.
East Gate No. 290
San Bernardino No. 348
Born April 2, IS75
Born-

1909

1915

1921

1910

1916

1922

1917

1923

Samuel E. Burke........ G. M.
W. Frank Pierce........G. M. Albert G. Burnett ......G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Santa
Rosa
No.
57
Oakland No. 188
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Born April 9 IS56
Born Jan. 16, IS55
Died Au;. IS, 1923
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Wm.
A. Sherman....D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller...... D. G. M. F. V. Keesling ....•...D. G. M. Arthur S. Crites......S. G. W.
Wm.
Rh.
Hervey
....
S.
G
.
W.
A. J. Monroe...._....S. G. W .
David J. Reese........J. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer........J . G. W. Bradford Wabster..J. G . W. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
Wm.
Parker
Filmer
......
G.
T.
Edward Coleman.... _.... G. T.
John Whicher -·-········G· S.
John Whicher -········-···G. S. John Whicher -···········G· S. Thom111 J. Baker..........G . L
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L Thomas J. Baker..........G . L
William A. Sherman .. G . M.
Dana R. Weller.......... G. M. Frencls V. Keesling ....G. M.
Presidio No. 354
California No. I
So. Callfornla No. 27S
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Born Feb. 17, 1877
Born March 24, 1874
Arthur
S. Critas...... D. G. M.
Wm.
Rh.
Hervey
....
D.
G.
M.
A. J. Monroe..........D. G. M.
David J . Reese ...•..S. G. W .
Bradford
Webster
..
S.
G.
W.
Wm. P. Filmer ........S. G. W.
Alb. E. Boynton......J. G. W.
J . D. Murphey.... _..J. G. W. Chas. A. Adams....J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
Wm.
Parker
Filmer
..
·
....
G.
T.
Edward Cofaman.......... G. T.
John Whichar ·········-···&• S.
John Whieher -······-···G. S. John Whicher -·······-···G· S. Thom111 J , Baker..........G. L
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

1911

•

Wm. Rhodes Hervey.. G. M. Arthur S. Crites.....•....G. M.
Alonzo J. Monroe. ___ G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Bakersfiel d No. 224
Humboldt No. 79
Born March 26, IS70
Born Feb. 4, IS79
Born Oct. 19, IS58
Died June 14, 1922
David
J. Reese......D. G . M.
Wm. P. Filmer........ D. G. M. Bradford Webster.. D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton.-...S. G. W.
Chas.
A.
Adams
......
S.
G.
W.
J. D. Murphey........S. G. W.
Geo. L. Jones..........J. G . W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe......J. G. W . Geo. F. Rodden ......J . G . W. Wm. Perker Filmer...... G. T.
Wm.
Parker
Fifmer_
....
G.
T.
Edward Cofeman........-G. T.
John Whicher _.......••..•G. S.
John Whicher ·········-···G. S. John Whicher -···-·······G· S. Thomas J. Baker.._...•.. G. L
Thomas
J.
Baker
..........
G.
L.
Thomas J . Baker.......... G . L.

1912

1918

1924

David J. Reese .....•......G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer............ G. M. Bradford Webster ...... G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Kin; Solomon No. 260
Liv• Oak No. 61
· Born Au;. 22, IS71
Born March 3, 1866
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Alb. E. Boynton......D. G . M.
Jno. D. Murphey.... D. G. M. Chas. A. Adams.... D. G. M. George L. Jones ....S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bfedsoe......S. G. W . Geo. F. Rodden ......S. G. W. Will H. Fischer......J. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett......J. G. W. Sam. E. Burke..........J. G . W. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
Edward Coleman~----····G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher -··-········G• S.
John Whicher ·······--···G· S. John Whicher -············G· S. Thom111 J. Baker...- ..•.. G. L
Thomas J. Baker..._•.... G. L Thomas J. Baker..._..... G. L

.

586

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1925

1930

1933

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

Albert E. Boynton ...... G. M. John Stewert Ross...... G. M. James B. Gist............ G. M.
Oroville No. 103
Born Oct. 9, 1875

El Centro No. 384

Born May 21, 1879
Geo. L Jones.......... D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer ......S. G. W.
Gus. A. HutefL..... J. G. W. Robt. B. Geylord .... D. G. M.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. Frank W. Mixter ....S. G. W.
Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L. Jemes B. Gist... ..... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
1926
George L. Jones ........ G. M. John Whicher .............. G. S.
Madison No. 23
Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L
Born May II, 1873

Will H. Fischer...... D. G. M.
Gus. A. HutafL .....S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Beker.......... G. L.

1927
Will H. Fischer .......... G. M.
Wilshire No. 445
Born Sept. 11, 1875

Pentalpha No. 202
Born Auc;i. 8, 1868

R. V. Whiting ........ D. G. M.
Eerl Warren .......... S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller.... J. G. W.
Wm. Perker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ............-&. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1934
Randolph V. Whiting .. G. M.
Kinc;i Solomon No. 260
Born Nov. 13, 1870

Robt. B. Geylord ........G. M.

1935

Chile (Rudolfo C. Oliveira) ............................ Cassila No. 2867, Santiago, Chile

Oakland No. 188
Born Nov. 24, 1876

Eerl Werren ................ G •.M.
Sequoia No. 349
Born March 19, 1891

Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M.
Jemes T. Freser...... S. G. W.
Leon 0. Whitsell.. .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L

1936
Rollie W. Miller.......... G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, 1883

C. M. Wollenberg .. D. G. M.
J. S. Ross................S. G. W.
Robt. B. Geylord ....J. G. W.

Jemes T. Freser...... D. G. M.
Leon 0. WhitselL ..S. G. W.
William H. Waste .. J. G. W.
1932
Wm. Perker Filmer...... G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. Frenk .W. Mixter........ G. M. John Whicher................ G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L.
Leslie E. Wood .............. G. L.

John S. Ross .......... D. G. M.
Robt. B. Geylord ....S. G. W.
Frenk W. Mixter .... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L.

BrazilThe Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of Rio Janeiro
The Grand Lodge of the State of Panahyba
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paula
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of Para
The Grand L:odge of Amazon and Acre
British Columbia (W. A. DeWolf-Smith) .............................. New Westminster

Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Od. 5, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933

Starr King No. 344
Born March 13, 1873

Alberta (J. H. W. S. Kemmis) .................................... :.............................,.Ca,lgary

1931

Frank W. Mixter.... D. G. M.
James B. Gist.... - ....S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton .... _.. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
1928
Gustev A. Huteff...... G. M. Thome• J. Beker.......... G. L.

1929

RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Earl Werren .......... D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller......S. G. W.
Jemes T. Freser...... J. G. W.
Wm. Perker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L.

Gus. A. HutefL..... D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg .. $. G. W.
J. S. Ross ................J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher -··-·-·-G. S.
Thomes ·J. Beker.......... G. L.

C. M. Wollenberg ...... G. M.

587

Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, 1873

1937

Canada, Ontario (Wm. M. Logan) .......................................................... Hami!ton

ColombiaNational Grand Lodge at Barranquilla, Apartado 333
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena
The Grand Lodge Regular of the Republic of Bogota........................
(Dr. Carlos Hernandez) ..................- ..........................Bogota, Colombia
Costa Rica (G. F. Bowden) ................,............................ _.......•:................. San Jose
Cuba (Coronel Gonzalo Garcis Pedroso) ....•.........•........................... La Habana
Czecho-SlovakiaThe Grand Lodge Lessing of the Three Rings
The National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia
Both Seated at Prague
Denmark (F. R. J. Ancker, Grand Secretary) ............................................... .
...... ~ ................................................,..... Raadhuspladsen, 14a, Copenhagen
Ecuador (Jose de la Cuadra).,.................. ,.................. :.........,..........•....... Guayaquil

James T. Freser.......... G. M.
Jemes B. GisL ..... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton ........ S. G. W.
R. V. Whiting ........ J. G. W.
Wm. Perker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomes J. Beker.......... G. L.

Humboldt No. 79
Born Aug. 28, 1868

Leon O. WhitselL .. D. G. M.
Williem H. Waste .. S. G. W.
Williem B. Ogden .. J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher................ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L.

Egypt (Abd El Maguid-Younis) ........ Freemason's Hall, 6 Fouad 1 St., Cairo
England (Sidney White) ............................................ F'reemasons' Hall, London
FranceGrand Lodge of France (Auguste Viet) ....................8 Rue Puteaux, Paris
Independent National (W. J. Combes), 42 Rue D Rochecaouart, Paris
Guatemala (Francisco Salazar) .............................................................. Guatemala
Holland, Netherlands (A. E. L. Faubel), Fluweelen Burgwal 22, The Hague
Honduras (M. F. ·Rodriguez) .............................................................. Tegucigalpa
Ireland (Henry C. Shellard) ............................................................................ Dublin
Mexico~

Grand Lodge of the Pacific.... Postal 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, D. F.
York Grand Lodge .............. Apartado 1986, Mexico City, Mexico, D. F.

538

PROCEEDING:> OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

589

Manitoba (J. H. G. Russell) ••_........-········-· ..··~·······························:....... Winnipeg
New Brunswick (R. D. Magee) ........................--··-·-···························Saint John

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

New South Wales (David Cunningham, P. D. G. M.) .......................... Sydnc\t
New Zealand (H. A. Lamb) .................... ·-·····-··--···--Dunedin, New Zealand
Norway (E. Lowig-Hansen) ._.....•..•................•...•....~ ........................................ Q&lilli
Nova Scotia (James C. Jones) .....•...........•••;.......~ ......................................... Halifd
Panama (Jose Oller) ...........................- .............................................- .......•. Panilli\
Peru (Gerardo Alania) ..............................................................................: ••..•....Li.ml:
Philippine Islands (Teodoro Kalaw) ................................- ...•....................Manila
Porto Rico (F. G. Perez Almiroty) .... ~ ........... - ...................... Rio Piedras, P. R.
Prince Edward Island (Chas. M. Williams) ................................ Charlottetown
Quebec (W. W. Williamson) .................................................................... Montreal
Queensland (Leslie P. Marks) .................................................................... Brisbane
Salvador (Salvador Grand Lodge) .......................................................... Cuscatlan
Saskatchewan (W. B. Tate) ..:.............•_.........................,. ...........................•Regina
Scotland (Thomas G. Winning) ............................................................ Edinbul'.glf
Serbes, Croates and Slovenes (S. Chokorah) .................... Beograd, Jugoslavia
South Australia (R. Owen Fox) ...................•...........,.............................. Adelaide
Sweden (Yngve G. Wisin) ............ _.......................... Frimurarelogen, Stockholm
SwitzerlandThe Swiss Grand Lodge Alpina (Arnold Raschle, Grand Secy.) ..... .
.......- •.- .•- .......................................................... .,..•- ........................ Zurich; 18
Tasmania (W. H. Strutt) ................................................•..•..........:.................Hobart
Victoria (W. Stewart) ....... ~......................................................................Melbourne
Vienna (Wladimir Misar).,.................................... l Dorotheergasse 12, Vienna
Western Australia (A. E. Jensen) •........•.,...............·-····················-·······-·····Perth

A
A. E. F . Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250) Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilto~ (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alta Loma (644), Signal Hill.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Amity (370) , San Francisco.
Amador (65), Jackson'.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Anaheim (207)., Anaheim.
, Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisto.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington ( 414), Los · Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
.Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero ( 493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis:
Atwater (622), Los Angeles:
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Bethlehem ( 453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Pine Knot.
Blackmer ( 442), San Diego.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.·

Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Bay City (526), San Francisco .
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Beacon of the West (628),
Los Angeles.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell ( 483), Bell.
Bellflower (523); Bellflower.
Belvedere (539), Los Angeles.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.

c
Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico ( 412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Cariby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Capital 'City (499), Sacramento.

Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria ( 444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Center ( 465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (410), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), 'Chico.
Chino Valley ( 427), Chino.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

590

591

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ,

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), C9velo.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clarence F. Smith (482),
Los Angeles.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Culver City ( 467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Chowchilla ( 485), Chowchilla.

Citro! (656), Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Coachella ( 476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Concord (117), Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran ( 490), Corcoran.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.

D
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
East Bay ( 489), Berkeley.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561),
East San Diego.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
Elysian ( 418), Los Angele's.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
Evening Star (186), Etna Mills.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

F
Fairfax (556), Fairfax.
Fairview (629), Inglewood.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco.
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.

Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Francis Drake (376), South
San Francisco.

Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.

Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Tpe Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Garvanza ( 492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
G!assell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden City (553), San Francisco.

Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, H. T.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Greek.
Henry Morse Stephens (541),
Berkeley. .
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.

Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Holtville ( 425), Holtville.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, H. T.
Hope (234), Beckwith.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Huntington Beach (380),
Huntington Beach.

I
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Fairview (629), Inglewood.

James A. Foshay (640),
Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield (566),
Los Angeles.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles..
Jefferson (97), Laporte.
Janesville (232), Lassen.

Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
Inyo (221), Independence.
lone (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.

J

Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John Marshl!.11 (636),
West Hollywood.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego.
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
Jonathan ( 545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.

592

PROCEEDINGS OF'. THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.

Justice (549), San Francisco.

K
Kauai (589), Lihue, H. T.
Kaweah (665),· Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman ( 420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, H. T.
King David's (209),
San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260),
San Francisco.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre. (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), San Diego.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
La~anda Park (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), La Mes.a.
Lancaster ( 437), Lancaster.
Lankei'shim (542),
North ;Hollywood.
Landmark (253}, Esparto.
La Puente (446), Puente.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Lassen (149), Susan".ille.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Honolulu; H . T.

Lexington (104), El Monte.
Liberal Arts ( 677), Los Angeles.
Libertas ( 466), Bakersfield.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Lincoln ( 470), San Francisco.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Liyingston (658), Livingston.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Los Angeles ( 42), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lynwood (600), Lynwo.od.

Meridian (667), Glendale.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Midway (4.26), Taft.
Military Service (570),
San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mission (l69), Sao . Francisco.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Molino (150) , Tehama.
Moneta (405) , Los Angeles,
Montebello (451) , Montebello.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.

593

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Mount Davidson (481),
San Francisco.
·
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.

Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson ..
Mountain View (194),
Mountain View.

N
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.
North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
•Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Newville (205), Pas ken ta.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369); Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.

Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

0

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Malta (661) 1 Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434):,. Maricopa.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, H . T.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Mc Cloud ( 430), McCtoud.
M.cKinley (347), Richmond.
Melr.ose (602), Los Angeles.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo' Park.
Menorah (623), 1..os Angeles.
Mendocino (179), 'Mendocino.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ( 331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisade-s (637), Santa Monica.
Palms (512) , Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.
Park ( 449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
P~:.rl Harbor (598), Honolulu, H. T.
Penrhyn (258), Penrhyn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.

Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Pinole.
Pittsburg ( 429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Porterville ( 303), Porterville.
Presidio (354) , San Francisco.
Progressive (578) , Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

594

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

R
Ramona (457), Mpnterey Park.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
Redondo (328), Redondo.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto.
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Saint Helena °(93), St. Helena.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
San Bernardino (348),
San Bernardino.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
San Francisco "(360), San Francisco.
San Jacinto (338), San J acinto.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
San Jose (10) , San Jose.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
San Pasqual ( 452), Pasadena.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
· Santa Lucia (302), Kings City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Sa nta Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Schofield ( 443), Schofield Barracks,
H .T.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.

Rising Light (397),
Huntington Park.
Riverbank ( 459), R iverbank.
Riverdale ( 496), Riverdale.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt ( 500), San Francisco.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel ( 415), Los Angeles.
Sincerity ( 132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna · (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278) ,
Los Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco.
South West (283), National City.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale~
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W . Hackett (574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple City (612), Temple.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Texas (46), San Juan.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.

Torrance ( 447) , Torrance.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Truckee (200) , Truckee.
Truth ( 597) , Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395) , Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394) , Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537) , Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Vallee de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487) , Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van N uys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.

Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Veteran (373), Sawtelle.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), Sa n Francisco.
Vi~ alia (128) , Visalia.
V itruvius (145), Bloomfield.
V olcano (56), Volcano.

w
Warren G. Harding ( 579),
North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Waucoba (413), Big Pine.
Welcome (255); Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Wes tern Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
WHlits (365), Willits.
.
W illow Glen (676), W illow Glen.
Wilmington (198), W ilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287) , Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodstock (491) , A lameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

York ( 423), L os Angeles.
Yosemite (99) , Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

•

595

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

596

597

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
CORRESPONDENCE

1937 CORRESPONDENCE REPORT-CONTENTS

Americanism .,....:...•..........~,..,... ~;...............................,......•._....... 598, 604, 611, 626
American Legion ··~···-····-·····,..:.:......,._...:.....,./v···-~·.:.-.•.:.............,..,..,.....:....•.;..;_.t!Qf
Attendance ..................................................,......................................... _................ 603
Automobiles ...................:........,................................................:......- ..•.." .............., 607
''Bouquets and Brickbats'' .................................................................................. 678
Calendar-Masonic ...............................,.............................................................. 684
Candidates •............................................................................................................. 608
China-Lodges in .........................- .............................................................,......... 597
Communism ........................................- .................................................................. · 611
Co-ordinate Bodies :..............................................................: ................598, 616, 630
Cornerstones ....................................................................................................~···· 621
Correspondence Reports .................~.y
622, 623, 644, 687
DeMolay-Ord.e r of ....................................................................................... 616, _674
Depression ...................................,...... _.........!....,•..;. __ ,.~····..··•·":............b2~. 651, 672
Directory
California Chairman Correspondence .................................:.................... 687
California Grand Bodies ............................................................................ 685
Grand Bodies .......................................................................,................ 685-686
Grand Lodges ................................................................................................ 687
Grand Lodge Communications .................................................................. 684
Duke of Windsor ..................................................,..................................... 602, 623
Education-Masonic .......................................................... 600, 601, 603, 606, 643
England ·····-···........................................................................................ 600, 602, 623
Flags ......................................................-,............................................................... 626
Finances ...............................................................................................,.. 624, 651, 672
Foreign Relations .................................................................- .............. 597, 601, 628
Funerals .............................................._:.................................................................... 630
Gambling ................................................................................................ 630. 645, 666
Grand Lodges ...................................................................................... 636, 684, 687
Hat-The Master's .....:........................................................................................ 650
Humor ..........................................................................,........................................... 644
Liquor ...............................:.............................................................................. 645, 666
Master-Worshipful ......................................................................................... _. 649
Masonry-Conception of ...........................................'····················-· 601, 602, 657
Membership ...........,........................'-............~...............60(}, 608, 651, 674, 685, 689
"Oddities in the News" ,..,............:....................................................................... 653
Offenses .......:._·........................:.~............'........... _.......: ....617, 618, 630, 645, 660, 666
Officers-Grand Lodge ...............................................,..............."··········... 639, 685
Philippine Islands .......................:............................- .............-,...-.................59-7-601
Politics .......................................................- ................................... _.............. 612, 621
Proceedings-Grand Lodge .............................................................. 658, 669, 687
Publicity ................................................,................................................................. 660
Readings...,...Interesting ........................................................................................ 643
Relief .................................................., ..................- ........- ........................- ............ 616
Ritual ...................:-........, ...............................................599, 605, 627, 630, 649, 650
Restorations ................................................:............................................................ 651
Sojourners-National ............................................................................................ 598
Statistics- .
California ........................................................................................................ 685
Co-ordinate Bodies · .................- ..............:....- !............,, ........................ 685, 686
Grand Lodges ...-........,...........:......................,.........._..................................... 688
Temples .................................................................................................. 624, 664, 666
Titles ........................................................................................................ 602, 617, 660
Trials .....................................................~.................................................. 630, 645, 666
Washington Memorial ........................................................................................ 672
Youth .................................................................................................- ..................... 674
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .; . _• • : . . . . . . . . . .

October, 1937
BY JESSE M. WHITED
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
Herewith is submitted my Fourteenth Report as Chairman of the
Correspondence Committee. As in past years, the Report has been the
work of the Chairman, and the views expressed under the various topics
are, of course, his individual ideas. While it might be of interest and of
value to embody in this report all that occurred in the Masonic world
during the three years the Committee was "on vacation," space prevents
such treatment.
The topics covered are, therefore, those that we believe have merit,
as considered by Grand Lodges, their Officers and the various Committees
on Correspondence and embodied in the Proceedings received since our
last Annual session.
Some topics or conditions that are of general interest finding space
in the various Proceedings, but which are not treated at length in the
general body of this Report, may be briefly summarized as follows:
WHO'S WHO IN CHINA: The Far East now occupies the attention of the world and what the result will be it is impossible ,to prophesy. The Grand Lodge of England entered China Masonically in 1844;
the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts in 1863; the Grand Lodge of Scotland
in 1864 and the Grand Lodge of Ireland in 1919. China, of course, has no
Grand Lodge and under the recognized rules of Masonic procedure is
therefore open Territory.
On October 28, 1930, the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands
issued a dispensation for the formation of Amity Lodge at Shanghai,
China. The above mentioned Grand Lodges assumed the attitude that by
reason of this action there would be danger to the general interests of
Freemasonry in China and suspended relations with the Grand Lodge of
the Philippine Islands. Similar action was taken by a few Grand Lodges
in Australia and the United States. Most of the Jurisdictions, however,
held to the generally accepted view that as China was open Territory the
Grand Lodge of the Philippines was well within its rights. After the
establishment of Amity Lodge No. 106, four other dispensations were
issued.
It has been intimated that membership in these Lodges might not be
such as would insure Masonic stability and dignity. The following statistics from Correspondence Report of New York (1936) of the five Lodges
established under the Philippine Constitution given below may supply an
answer to this question:
No. of

Nan·
Pearl· Szech- West
Amity
king
River
wan
Lake
No. 1106 No. 108 No. 109 No. 112 No. 113 Total

Foreign Members..........,................... 25
Chinese Members.............................. 85
C~ll~ge <:rraduates............................ 86
M1ss1onanes ...................................... 6
Professional Men and Business "
Executives .................................... 87
Rotarians and ex-Rotarians.......... 39

17

23

21

31
45

19
5
23

8

17

33

43

24

13

17

31
3

13

22
26
2

33
20

97
164
211

36

220
89

592

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

By members referred to as "for!!ign" are meant all who are racially
non-Chinese. Among those classed as "Chinese" are a proportionately
large number of American and British nationality, born and bred abroad.
Classified according to nationality, the percentage of "foreign" members
would be about equal to that of the purely Chinese members. The District
includes 225 members; but 26 duplications, owing to dual-membership in
one or more Lodges, brings the total up to 256 for both classes of members.
·
A recent report states that at a meeting held July 22, the Grand Committee of the Grand Lodge of Scotland reported the draft of a ·p roposed
agreement by the Advisory Council for China between the Grand Lodges
of England, Ireland, Scotland, Massachusetts, and the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands. It was reported that the agreement had been signed
by the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, with
the expectation that his act would be confirmed at the next ailllual meeting of that Grand Lodge. The other Grand Lodges having approved, the
Grand Committee recommended that relations of amity between the Grand
Lodge of Scotland and the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, suspended some time ago, be restored so soon as the latter Grand Lodge
confirms the agreement.
From this it would appear that at least in Masonic circles there will
be peace and harnwny in China.
BETTER A NEIGHBOR THAT IS NEAR THAN A BROTHER
FAR OFF: The National Federated Crafts, an organization restricted to
Masons who are employees of the Federal government, advertised that
they would hold their annual meeting in Dallas, Texas, in September, 1936.
The Grand Lodge of that Jurisdiction has a regulation that organizations,
having as a requirement membership in the Masonic Fraternity, may not
operate there unless specifically "recognized'; by it. The then Grand
Master issued an Edict, against the National Federated Crafts and other
Organizations that had not secured such recognition, in part as ·follows:
. "This is to advise you that such organizations are forbidden by the
Grand Lodge of Texas, and that all persons engaged in organizing such
bodies, and all Masons who join the same are committing a Masonic offense,
which, if persisted in, will subject them to trial.
"You are hereby instructed to diligently canvass the membership of
your Lodge, as to the activities of any of its members in such forbidden
organizations, and to request such members to desist therefrom and to
sever their connections with such organizations, and in the event they shall
fail to do so to have proper ·charges preferred against them and presented
for. speedy trial."
The Officers of the National Federated Crafts answered with good
grace that they were Masons, and had no desire whatever to infringe upon
the prerogatives of the Grand Lodge, and accordingly ordered all "Crafts"
in Texas dissolved and their charters returned.
Covered by this Edict also was National Sojourners, Inc., composed
of past and present commissioned officers of the uniformed forces of the
United States Government, who are Master Masons. In 1924 its first
chapter was established in San Antonio, and together with eight other
Chapters had been in continuous existence after that time. ' The purposes
of the National Sojourners are as follows:
"Cultivating Masonic ideals.
"Supporting all patriotic aims and activities in Masonry.
"Developing true patriotism and Americanism throughout the Nation.

599

.
f h
"formed forces (past and
"Bringing together representatives o t e um
. h
"lit . need
present) of the United States in a united eff~rt to further t e. mi ary
of national defense.
·
"t "
"Opposing all influences calculated to weaken the nat1ona1 seculn y ..
.
f the Grand Master as fol ows ·
The Sojourners answered the Ed1ct o
.
"We recognize fully the jurisdiction of the Grand LoMdge o~ Tetxtas mm·
. hd
·
f
this great
asoruc s a e
::i~::~:s t~:~ ~:h~:: t~~tug~a;:~g c:::erable regret, that this action
had to be taken.
·
·ts
"We advise our Texas members to conform fully to thhe requ1r4:~:ng
e our other members, w o may
of their Grand Lodge ~nd. ~e ur g
·
in in Texas for
to L~dges i!1 other Junsld1cti.o~s~u\ ~o or:1~~eb~r:~~u~d:e of Texas in
the time bemg, to comp Y wit
e a
1 to them "
this and all other particulars, so far as these laws may app Y k bl
ry
We have the highest admiration !~r ;;:s:~~~y i:efi;ie~n~ t~e:s:l~es
achieveme~ts of the early Te~a~s l~~gex~loits of the Texas Rangers, for
from Mexico, for the almost a ud th
in the Civil War as well as for
the heroism. of Hood's Texans;~ \ ers men of the 36th' and 90th Divithe World War performance o
1~ c~~vd~tions, no less than the unceasing
sions, but we feel that present wo~
munists and others who seek the
agitatio~ in our o"'.n c~untry o co::;rm of overnment, are such that
destrl,lct1on or modificatiorAof ~ur
may wefi wish to support just such
Masons and all other toy~ .menca~s for adequate National Defense (not

:rt

1

~ff~:~~ ~!r°:et :~~r~=;~~) :~e:~isaged in ·the purposes ~ecited above.

. t th future ·but it might be pertinent to suggest
We cannot 1oo k in o e
.
·
d
they
that in case of another World's
ar, N a~ional. So3ou~:~\:~~1p1:atea~rand

'YI

r~d~~!1t~rr~:~:~~o~o~l~~t::i;~1=~~;ie~;~h!n~dh~t~~:1usef
~u:e~s:a~;1~ot~:~
. d them " Over There " for reasons t a are no

was d erue
•
forth here.
.
.
1
.
. 1935
IPHER RITUALS: The Grand Lodge ~f Washmgton .m.

auth~r.ized
the printing o f dthe . s~~nd~~a~::n i~::~~~!~~':~ee~c~=~t:
essential secrets of the 0 r er.
e
.

.
f th Grand Lodge of Florida comments as follows:
;hey are playing with the Masonic Ritual in the State of ~ashmgton,
. "d t1 with the "tap-root" of the Order of Masonry.
and , mc1 en y,
· ·
f th " St dard
The Grand Lodge of 1935 authorized .the pnntmg o
~ d a,n,,
w k in Cipher form exclusive of 'Essential Secrets of the r er.
.
or
'
.
h "d
t 11 and compares his
Th Grand Lecturer doesn't hke t e 1 ea a a ' .
dislike ~o an American Humorist's rec~rded distaste fo~ a famous New
England pastry dishSaid the Humorist,.
. , ,,
"I hate, detest, abhor, despise, and abomi?ate 'dned-~pple-pies.
.
"Not a whit less vehemently I exclaim against a certain,, u~auth~ri
ized ke to our Standard Work.," said the Grand Lecturer, an .Ye 'b
have b?en compelled to print, proof-read, ~xamin~, o~e:: ap~~o:t·a d~~~e;
ute., declare perfect; give away, and otherwise ven an
1spo
of the same Work."
.
·
h t
. He also said later in his report, and we heartily agree. with it, \:r
"the Institution would be better off today if no part of the ritual had e
been printed at all."
.
f th
Th~ Jurisprudence Committee, too, shyed at the Cipher form o
e

0

600

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Work-6aid that none of members of the Committee could read it, and
refused to recommend its adoption as the Standard Work.
It did say; however, that "the action in all things is legal. Further
than that the Committee cannot say."
The Committee's report was adopted, which leaves the "Cipher'' in
the status of a step-child, more or less-the Ritual Committee's report,
presenting it, was adopted while the Jurisprudence Committee's report,
refusing to approve it as the "Standard Work," was also adopted.
The Grand Master of Nebraska recommended the appointment of a
Committee to study the matter of the preservation of the letter-perfect
regularity of the esoteric work. Ohio and several other Jurisdictions also
have a written ritual exclusive of the essential secrets, which are the
signs, grips, words and modes of recognition, together with parts of the
ritual that have a direct bearing thereon.
The Grand Lodge of England, to whom most Jurisdictions look for
precedence, has a printed ritual; likewise some of the other Grand Lodges
in the British Empire. They are not issued in cipher form, and the
Fraternity in those Jurisdictions do not seem to· be any worse for their
use.
WHICH SYSTEM IS BEST?: The Gr'and Secretary of the Royal
Arch Masons in speaking before the Grand Lodge of Texas (1937), while
not answering directly the popular question, "What have they got that
we haven't got?" presented the following:
·
There are two distinct ideas. One is to make it easy to acquire
membership in the Masonic bodies, and another is to make it harder to
acquire membership. With the first, easy to get in, and harder to stay
in. With the other, harder to get in, and easier to stay in.
This is from our Grand Recorder Hamersly o{ the Grand Encampment of the United States. He has just finished a tour of the Masonic
bodies of Europe England and Scotland, and I want to give you his
observation. He is making ~ comparison between the Masonic bodies of
England and the Masonic bodies of the United States, and he takes those
seven years which we learned to call the period of depression, from 1928
to 1935, as a comparison on that much of his report. I will read to .you.
In 1928 the English Lodges numbered 4,400. The number of subordinate
Lodges in England was 4,400 in 1928. In 1935, seven years later, there
were 4,900 Lodges in England. You see the increase, nearly 100 a year.
500, to be exact, for the seven years.
The membership in England in 1928 was 250,000. In 1935 it was
380,000. Do you notice the increase during those seven years? Now,
listen to the statistics of the United States. In the United States in 1928
there were 16,000 Lodges. In ·1935 there were 15,400 Lodges, or a loss 'of
600 Lodges in our country in that seven years, while there was a gain of
500 in England during the same seven years. The membership in the
United States in 1928 was 3,300,000, while in 1935 it had dropped to
2,500,000.
LET THERE BE LIGHT: There are almost as many ideas upon
this subject as there are Jurisdictions. A large amount of time and money
has been expended we believe without results in attempting to devise a workable program that will appeal to Masons generally. One Grand Master very
plainly stated that the average Mason did not want to be educted. Perhaps
he was justified from the results in a large number of Jurisdictions. A plan
that is producing satisfactory results in various Jurisdictions is educating the
candidate in Masonic lines during the time he was elected until he becomes

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ma~er

601

!n

a
Mason. . For the Masonic student and those having an. interest
history, perhaps the best method so far has been by the establishment m
various Jurisdictions of Research Lodges organized for the purpose which
their name implies. Such Lodges have been successful in New Yor)i:, Oregon, North Carolina, Washington and some other Jurisdictions. Other
Grand Lodges have History Committees which serve the same purpose.
There are a number of Masonic publications issued not only by Grand
Lodges but also pdvately which furnish the same service. Masonic history
when properly handled has an appeal to not bnly the Masonic student, but
also the average member.
The following from the Grand Master (1936) of the Philippine Islands
presents one of the finest pieces of work it has been our good fortune to read:
"I appointed a Special Committee to make recommendations on the .
organization by the subordinate Lodges of classes for illiterate persons;. ~y
idea was to have each Lodge hire the necessary teacher, or teachers, whose
services could no doubt have been secured at nominal charge, as many of
our Brethren belong to the teaching profession, and organize evening classes
to be held in one of the rooms of the Lodge hall or in some other suitable
place. This humane and patriotic labor in behalf of persons who have not
had those opportunities which we consider the birthright of every person,
would no· doubt have redounded to the credit of the Fraternity in these
Islands. Unfortunately, however, the Committee made its report only a few
days ago and it was for this reason impossible to adopt a definite plan. In
spite of this several Lodges have organized and are conducting such classes
for the illiterate, and in view of the interest shown, I recommend to the
incoming Grand Master that he appoint a Committee to continue the work
of organizing classes for the illiterate and I urge our Brethren to take an
interest in this constructive activity of Masonry."

a

THE HORSE AND BUGGY DAYS: The airplane, the automobile
and the radio have eliminated the barrier between the "city slicker" and the
"rube," and the "hick town" and the "industrial center." Henry J. Allen,
Grand Orator of Kansas, in an oration very fittingly presented what Masonry
in the past stood for to a large proportion of our members:
"My mind goes back to a building which I knew in Manhattan, Kansas,
forty years ago. Above a central window of the second story facing Main
Street, on certain nights a transparent sign bore the legend 'A. F. & A. M.,' ·
and below, the square and compasses. The whole community knew it as
the Lodge room of the Masonic Order. ·
·
"To that building one night in my young manhood, with a spirit of utter
devotion, I went to ·receive my Entered Appr~ntice degree. I think l rec;ill
that night as I recall nothing else in all my life. In equally poign•nt mood
I recall the inspiring symbolism which led me entranced through th.e. th.ree
solemn journeys that brought me to my citizenship in the d'e gree of a Master
Mason.
" I was a young business man with a wife and baby, and an ambition to
live the normal life of a useful free citizen. Times were bitter, although I did
not know it then. Those were the only times I had ever tried to do busin.e ss
in. I thought they were regular times. We were emerging from the depression of the early nineties and getting ready for the great political contest of
1896.
"Many of my neighbors I did not know. I knew my competitor by
sight, and deemed him a man undesirable in all ways. But when, after the
elevation my thought and spirit had experienced through the degrees, I came
to receive the congratulations of these neighbors and fellow citizens upon my

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

602

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

entrance into full fellowship as a craftsman, I detected in them a new dignity.
Manhattan became to me a new sort of place because these older men had
made me a brother to themselves, and had interested me with them in their
dreams of individual behavior and a better social order. A new mein sat
upon them and upon the town.
'
"And today when I think of the physical manifestations of Masonry,
I do not visualize the beautiful temples our Order has builded. When I
think of Masonry, I am back in a modest rectangUlar lodge room above a
store in Manhattan, where the bankers, the merchants, the lawyers, the
teachers, and the farmers gave me the sign, pass word, and grip of a fellow
craftsman, and made me Master of those gentle mysteries which set apart
in a sacred chamber of my life a new chapter of resolutions and a new sense
of human obligations.
· "To me all these ordinary men of my daily life with their straight and
simple faiths, took on a new nobility. I see them now as I stand before you
at this formal instant, and through them I see Masonry. . . ."
MASONRY REGARDS NO MAN FOR HIS WORLDLY
WEALTH OR HONORS: The able Chairman of the Correspondence
Committee of North Carolina states that this phrase should be classified
with the Dodo, which is intended to be a stronger statement than the one
about "horse and buggy days," if you have not seen a Dodo..
Some one has truly said that "Fame is vapor, riches take wings, and
the only earthly certainty is oblivion." "Public opinion is very fickle.
Popularity is a vapor which passes with the changing of the breezes of
public judging. One is a hero of today and an anathema tomorrow--and is
the same person aside from 'worldly wealth or honors' both times. If in
our Masonic estimation of a man we think of him in connection with honors,
externals, popularity, the public whim, we sow the wind and have no reason
to do other than expect to reap the whirlwind. Public persons are none
less than human. It is their human presons whom we make Masons. If
perchance they are projected into greatly changed conditions, their relation
thereto changes. Change the window-dressing into what the candid camera
sees, and you debunk the subject to what he really is. Put him on the spot,
as sooner or later must happen, and you have a different person (for the
public gaze) from him in the midst of brass bands and parades and hat
throwing. What we are saying is, that the tendency of Masonry to esteem
some Masons in terms of their worldly honors and distinction, also is a
tendency toward fickleness. Away back in 1933, much laud was given to the
President of the United States because he had made a special trip to New
York to be present for the raising of his son. Then in the early part of
1936, that chorus of praise changed to a veritable anvil chorus of knocks by
those who were disgruntled, or who 'viewed with alarm' or who knocked
in camoufiage--they said he had fired Masons from offices by devious means
and put in their places others who were supposed to be hostile to Masonry.
Other charges may have been advanced, but this one we heard most frequently.
"When the Prince of Wales was Empire Salesman he was the world's
most popular Mason. Times changed. Things came on the boards, of which
it is not needful to write here. Result: Masonry has in far too many Masons'
mouths become too uncharitable to the last degree. Edward, Duke of
Windsor, has paid the price of being in the public eye and being human
withal. Masonry regarded him not as human but in the habiliments of
prominence. It's as hard to regard him as human now, as before he was
required to make his Great Choice.

603

"We repeat as we began: what we need is more of respect and love for
the individuals who are Masonry, shorn of incidental or accidental matters
fore~ to Masonry itself. Can we not make the ritual mean what it says'Masc;mry regards no man for his worldly wealth or honors'?"
LATE ARRIVALS: Due to the necessity of furnishing copy, we
regret that our report does not embody excerpts from the last Grand Lodge
Proceedings of Arizona, Michigan, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, South
Dakota, Vermont, Virginia, British Columbia, Philippine Islands, New
South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, Western Australia. ,
·We close with a story we believe apropos of what is embodied in the
foregoing section of this Report:
"Brothers, I am about to bring this discourse to a close. And in doing so
I submit that the Worshipful Master was quite correct in calling my attention to the length of time I have talked. He is just as right about it as was
the small school-boy.
" 'Is there anything wrong about the sentence, "I have went?" asked
the school-teacher.
·
" 'Y essum,' said Johnny. 'You haven't went yet.'
"But Brothers, I am going now, and I thank you."
Sincerely and fraternally,
JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman.

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Jesse M. Whited
Ernest W. Dort
Frank M. Scott
Acton M. Cleveland
V. F. Greaves

604

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

t'

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

605

I

AMERICAN LEGION
Some of the aims of the American Legion are al6n to Maso y but
they are transmitting them into action. Cooperation with the' Legi along
these lines, as has been done in some of the Jurisdictions, canno be but
productive of good. As against some influences they have ado ted the
motto made immortal at Yer dun, "They shall not pass." More power to
them.
, Florida (1936):

"Free~asonry is not a political institution. It knows nothing of kingdoms
republics or empires or states. I~ deals with men only as children of a comn Father and has nothing to do with political controversies that distract
ons. It labors to relieve the suffering of the living and give decent sepulto the dead."
'
low~ (1935):

(Chairman C01'respotu1ence Committee): The Jurisprudence Committee of
Missouri went a few steps further in reviewing the Grand Master's decision
(supra) when they stated that nothing must be done by rhese brethren iliat
would injure the Fraternity and that there must be no political activities. The
latter, in this reviewer's opinion, is a very important point. Grand Master Smith
points out in his discussion of this question that American Legion posts are
prohibited from entering into political controversies. A splendid idea! May they
ever live up to it! The Jurisprudence Committee further stated that they
doubted the advisability of the brethren of Missouri commingling Masonic terms
v'lith other organizations and recommended that they avoid doing so. They
further suggested that consideration be given to the revision of the Missouri
law so that the policy of the Grand Lodge of Missouri with reference to this
matter might be more clearly defined.

(Chairman Correspotuience Committee): The Grand Master of Missouri
answered .t he question, "Does the Masonic Law prevent its members from
forming an American Legion Post composed exclusively of Freemasons, where
no ¥~sonic Lodge is sponsoring the Legion Post?" then answering the succeeding question :
Ai:iswer: No. Our members as ind\yidual Masons, may form such a post, if
they wish.
No. 5. Question : Can such a Legion Post, composed exclusively of
Masons, use a Masonic name for their pos.t?
Answer : Yes. This answer is qilalified with the statement that the Legion
Post must do nothing which would tend to bring disrepute to the Masonic
Fraternity.
.
The Masonic Fraternity in effect has a property right in its nomenclature
and has a just right to regulate the use of Masonic names by members of the
fraternity, and to forbid the use of Masonic names by outsiders. To date, the
Grand Lodge has only restricted the use of Masonic· names "for commercial or
otper business enterprises." This section has been interpreted many .times. ·
The Law itself and all of the decisions go to the question of using Masonic
terms for commercial purposes. The American Legion professes high ideals and
it cannot be said that its purposes are commercial.
• I am not attempting to pass on the American Legion question as to whether·
or not the requirement of Masonic affiliations violates its constitution. The
American Legion's only requirements for eligibility for membership is· that an
applicant shall have an honorable discharge from one of certain branches of the
military establishment, from service rendered during a particular period of
time. The Preamble to the Constitution of the American Legion is as follows :
"For God and Country, we associate ourselves together, for the following
purposes: To uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States of
America; to maintain law and order; to foster and perpetuate a one hundred
per cent Americanism; to preserve the memories and ·incidents of our association in the Great War; to inculcate a sense of individual obligation to the
community, state and nation; to combat the autocracy of both the class.es and
the masses ; to make right the master of might; to promote peace and good will
on earth; to safeguard and transmit to posterity the principles of justice, freedom and democracy; to consecrate and sanctify our comradeship by our devotion to mutual helpfulness."
' American Legion Posts are prohibited from entering into political controversies.

During the past years the absence of degree work has furnished an
opportunity for leadership in the Worshipful Master and his officers. The
Ritual has ceased to become attractive, even when handled in the most
correct manner. Only when exemplified by a visiting team or accompanied
with some other attraction will it interest the members to such an extent
that they will attend. In a number of cases during the past few years we
have seen from five to ten members besides the Officers present at the
conferring of the degree, but when an interesting speaker followed the
same brought into the Lodge room from fifty to seventy-five members, who
found more pleasure and entertainment in the ante room during the conferring of the degree than witnessing the same. It is a condition and not
a theory.

(Chairman Correspotuience Committee): The Department Commander of
the American Legion requested permission for the various Masonic Bodies to
participate in a good citizenship high schoor boys program, promoted by the
Legion.
The Grand Master of West Virginia refused, and quoted a previous Grand
Master, who said:

Louisiana (1936):
(Grand Secretary): I wonder if today our meager attendance at Lodge
meetings tnay not be traced to the increasing use of the automobile, the moving
picture theater, and the . radio. Forty years ago, a Mason would mount his
horse and drive a dozen miles, starting two hours ·before a Lodge meeting, in
order t-0 get there on time to associate for an hour or two with his brethren.

*

*

*

*

New Jersey (1935):
( Gratui Master): Many times during the year my attention has been
directed to Fraternity Post No. 101 of the American Legion, because of their
fine spirit of co-operation and their many endeavors in the interest of Freemasonry.
This Post has · its headquarters in the City of N ew;1rk and is 100%
Masonic. It is mandatory that every applicant for membership be both a World
War Veteran and a Master Mason in good standing in a regular and duly
constituted Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons.
In recognition for their splendid co-operation and many fine courtesies,
I take pleasure in saying a good word in their behalf at this time.

THE ONE THING NEEDED

606

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Today, he hops into his high powered automobile, .drives the twelve milge·
twelve minutes but he goes across the street to a mght club, or further do n
the block to th~ movie. When the weath~r is most inclement, he stays at h me
and listens to .the radio whose mysterious power brings to him whatever
m
of education or entertainment he may prefer.
;
How are we to combat this situation? All over the country Maso~s are
"scratching their heads" for new ideas to add to the regular routine o~ Lodge
business in order to compete with other attractions in an endeavor to increase
Lodge attendance. Perhaps my phrase in reference to competition ma~ n?t
strike the eyes of many of my Masonic readers w!th happiness-but. I. ma.inta1n
that we do have competition which the mere routine of ~dge busmess is i;iot
successfully combating-and so we have Masonic Comm1tt:es on Education
and Program and Special Affairs. There is work to do, and 1t can be done, to
recreate attendance at Lodge meetings, to create renewed interest in our Fraternity, and .t o secure a proper conception of the general intent of Freemasonr?"
if we are ready to climb out of the trenches and carry our message as. it
should be given out. And this can be done without ignoring any of the pr.mciples of our fraternity, without choppi~g down. any tre~s and .thus. destroymg
any "landmark" and, of course, without mtroducmg any innovations m the body
of Masonry.
Ohio (1936):
(Committee on Masonic Service): If the future welfare of Lodges is to
be assured, we must disseminate light and information and give Masonry that
perennial freshness which will hold ~he ll:ctive interest of its ~embers throughout the generations. As to how this might be best accomplished has been a
matter of much earnest thought by the Committee throughout the year. The
conclusion has been reached that Freemasonry, being a voluntary o:ganizati?n,
we cannot hope to force education on its members, but correct mformat10n
can be disseminated through Lodge programs in such a way as to leave on the
mind an imprint that will have a salutary effect upon the Craft.
The kind of program that would be adapted to the needs of the greatest
number of Lodges is, of course, greatly to be desired. It was finally determi~ed
to select fifteen subjects, have a working synopsis of each, a suggested out11?e
of a program for the meeting, have these printed in booklet form and distributed free to our Lodges. The Master and his Committee can then work out
complete a selected program on the theory that greater interest will be had wi~h
such personal touch, as well as the development of that great local talent m
all Lodges and which should be utilized.
This series of Lodge programs is offered as a practical guide in arranging
an entertaining and instructive evening's gathering:
I. Fathers' and Sons' Night
z. Grand Lodge Night
3. Reconsecration Night
4. District Night
5. Patriarch's Night
6. Memorial Night
7. Past Masters' Night
8. Masonic Home Night

9. Sojourner's Night
10. St. John Evangelist's Day
11. St. John Baptist Day
12. Roll Call Night
13. Visit by Sister Lodge
14. Washington and the Flag
15. Franklin as a Freemason

Rhode Island (1935):
(Grand Master) : Thh:ty years ago there were very few things that were
more attractive to a Mason than his Lodge. Today his Lodge has to compete
with a great variety of attractions, if it would secure his presence at the ~egular
stated communications. We have become more and more strenuous m our

607

b~smess and professional life with the passing years. We feel the need of
re1txation, when the day is done. Shall we go to the Lodge or seek our relaxatiol\ at the movies, the golf course, the club, in an automobile ride, or shall we
sit qpietly at home and tune in on a radio program or shall we do any one of a
hund'red and one things to make up an evening's entertainment. What is the
answer?
M'115onry has something of real worth for men. It has survived the changes
of over two hundred years in this country. It has known persecution of great
bitterness, as well as years of great prosperity; it has survived periods of
depression, hitherto, and will continue to live so long as its ideals.

South Australia (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee:) The Grand Master of Maine
made a novel innovation in Freemasonry by issuing a proclamation calling upon
Officers and Brethren of each Lodge to assemble in special Communication in
October, 1935, and partkipate in a ceremony of Re-obligation and Re-consecra.tion to Freemasonry. As part of the program the proclamation was read, the
Brethren were to stand and take upon themselves anew the obligation of our
third degrees, and the message from the Grand Master which was sent to every
Lodge was read.
The purpose of these meetings was that early in the activities of the
Masonic year, the members of our Lodges should gather about their altars
and there renew in their hearts the obligations and lessons of Freemasonry to
the end that each might become a better Mason and a better citizen. What a
fine idea!

DEATH IS SO PERMANENT
Since the commencement of the gasoline age approximately 1500 different makes of potential death and destruction have been placed in the
hands of experienced and inexperienced operators, of all classes from young
people in their non-age to old people in their dotage. When you consider
that during 1936 there were 36,000 deaths caused by automobiles, a greater
number of deaths than was suffered by the American Army in France, the
gravity of the situation is better exemplified than by preachments.
Be tolerant to the pedestrian; he has his faults, but they are not crimes
punishable by death.
Minnesota (1937):
(Grand Master): "To the Masters, Wardens and Brethren: The Minnesota
Pu.biic Safety Committee will conduct a drive during the month of September
to reduce to a minimum the number of deaths and injuries on our streets · and
highways. They are asking the various organizations of the State to co-operate
in making this one of the most outstanding attacks. ever made to reduce this
unnecessary slaughter.
"The Grand Lodge has been asked to co-operate in this movement. It is
entiri:ly fitting and proper that the members of our Order should assist in this
worthwhile effort to reduce the terrible toll which preventable 11ccidents are
taking each year. Any movement which will make our members more secure in
their life, limb and property is commendable and we should do our part as repre·
sentative citizens of Minnesota.
"A little more care in driving on the streets and highways; a little more
consideration for the other drivers and pedestrians, and constant watchfulness
will prevent accidents and avoid the grief and expense incident thereto.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

608

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Your active interest and co-operation in this move will be appreciated."
In October I received a letter from the Minnesota Public Safety Committ
tee stating that 'a reduction in the ?umber of deat~s in Septembe~, as comp.ar~
with former years, had been realized, and thanking the Masomc Lodges for
their co-operation.
I
I believe this matter of Safety is something to which we might well devote
some further attention.
South Carolina (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committ~e): 'fohe G~and. Master of Minnesota ·
departed somewhat from strictly Masomc subJects in hls address to urge. all
Masons to aid and support the movement for saf~ . dri_ving o~ automobiles.
Although not strictly of a Masonic nature, the admonition 1s certainly ·sound and
its observance is extremely desirable.
Utah (1937):
(Chaiirman Correspondence Committee): An interesting. resolution :vas
presented and adopted by Michigan which ~alls for ~ committee .to consider
the matter of devising some means (Esoteric) by which a Mason~ic Automobilist could know a Brother Mason who happened .to be on the highway ~d
could invite him, with safety, to ride-thus helping the on~ and a~or~i.ng
Masonic companionship to both. An attractive id~a, but as to its prac~cab1hty
-that's different; and one, inclined to caution might query how Ion~ 1t would
be, before some imposters, or Masons :whose names are on the bulletins. of the
Masonic Relief Association of the Umted States and Canada, w.oul~ gain possession of the "means" proposed, and pass it on to others of their kind. Hanging crepe? Possibly so, but in any event we shall be interested to learn of the
outcome of this movement.

A BACKGROUND OF DANGER
The attacks on Masonry from the outside are less to be feared than
the danger within itself. Observation as we~I as the readinl?i of the repor.ts
of the "Grievances and Appeals" Committees bear testimon:y to this.
Masonry is a selective body and the failure to zealously guard its portals,
by laxity in investigation, is often apparent when too late.
The number of undesirables who gained admission during the war
hysteria and the period of prosperity have perhaps b~en subseq?ently
removed. There is, however, the great danger that m. ~he d_esire ~o
rehabilitate both in numbers and financially, the same condition will again
prevail.
Delaware (1935):
(Grand Lodge): No Mason in the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of
Delaware shall promote, organize, or become a member of any club, order, ~r
fraternal society hereafter esta·blished in the State of Delaware whose qualifications for membership include that of being a Mason, unless such clu?, order,
or fraternal society shall have received the sanction and approval of this. Gra?d
Lodge. Violation of this resolution shall subject the offender to Masomc trial
and punishment.
.
While we welcome the opportunity of performing our ceremony on important buildings, it should be understood they should take place at the proper
time.

609

Florida (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): None but good citizens are admitted to M.:sonic membership if the portals of the Order are adequately guarded,
and the daily lives of its members is its only porper publicity medium, is this
writer's conception of the Institution of Masonry and its functioning.

*

*

*

*

Nor-Mi Lodge No. 253, inquired if objection raised to the advancement of
an ente1 eel apprentice ·because he was the owner, or operator, or shared in the
profits of slot machine operations, were valid.
Illinois (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It appears to be permissible in
New York to ballot collectively on a number of pefaions for degrees or
affiliation, and a separate ballot is required only if the collective ballot is not
clear. Such procedure is not permissible in Illinois and would seem to be desirable only to save time and we wonder whether that reason is more important
than the reasons which might be urged against the practice.
Kansas (1937):
(Committee on Jurisprudence): At this moment there are many young men
who wr.t:ld make splendid Masons, who heretofore have been deterred from
seeking admission by lack of financial means. Others may be desirous of
entering our Fraternity who would probably furnish work hereafter for the
Committee on Trials and Punishments. In our commendable zeal for restoring
the Order to an era of normal growth, let us, without self-righteous hypocrisy
but, nevertheless, with the utmost care, appraise the qualifications of those who
would e11ter.
Maryland (1935):
(Grand Master): I cannot avoid this feeling, that some of our Lodges
measure prosperity more by the number of admissions than by the quality of
them. Brethren, we have been making too many Masons. Many of our Lodges,
especia11y our city lodges, are too large. There can be no spirit of Fraternity
where there is no personal acquaintance or close contact. There is no Masonry
wher:e there is no Fraternity. I would rather belong to a small Lodge, doing
a limitl'd amount of work each year, where all remembered and practiced the
five points of fellowship, .than belong to a Lodge of from five hundred to a
thousand members, every one of whom were students of Masonic philosophy,
but too engrossed in the .study of it to remember the meeting night of their
Lodge or the names of 'its officers. More Fraternity and less ancient history;
more knocks at the homes of your less fortunate b rethren and fewer knocks at
the doors of your preparation rooms, will promote the healthiest kind of growth
in our L odges and the fullest realization of the high ideals of Masonry.
New Zealand (1935):
(Grand Master): Notwithstanding the shortage of candidates, there has
been no relaxation of the conditions of admission,. and Lodges have adhered
firmly to what we consider three essential qualifications, viz.: 1, unblemished
character; 2, the financial ability to meet all Masonic charges and obligations
without detriment to self or connections 3, the ability to understand and value
the principles and tenets of Freemasonry.
The. ultimate test of any system or form of belief is the effect produced on
the conduct of those who belong to it. So long as Freemasons continue true

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

610

PROCEEDINGS- OF THE

to their teaching and faithful to their obligation, their Craft will bear good
fruit and continue to enjoy the respect of mankind.
They must, however, understand that Freemasonry. means something ~?re
than w<'aring purple and gold, being addressed in. h1~h terms, and rec1tm1
beautiful ritual. The Masonic standard cannot be mamtamed ~xcept by_ pe:son~I
service, and that means giving its principles and tenets pra~tlcal applicat1pn m
daily life, by square conduct and upri1,~-ht actions, by. rendermg ser_v1ce to ~an·
kind whenever and wherever possible, and by mergmg personal interests into
the greater inte.rests of common life.
New Zealand (1936):
(Grnnd Lodge): A "Lewis," as described in Rule 148, must have been born
after his father became a Master Mason, and both father and son must comply
with other requirements·of the Rule.

*

*

*

*

The Board suggests to Lodges ~hat candidates for ad~ission_ into _th~ Craft
should be asked to make satisfactory provision for their dependents, if .they
have not already done so, either by Life Insurance or through some Provident
Society, etc.
New York (1936):
(Judge Advocate): No petition n:iay be rece.i:'ed by a Lodge from ~ clandes·
tine Mason unless permission to receive the petlt10n shall first be obtained from
the Grand Lodge or, if. Grand Lodge be not in sess~o':, from the Grand Master.
The petition must be for initiation and not for affiliat10n. The G:rand ~odge or
the Gran<l Master may grant or withhold conse~t! and ~fter being sa~1sfied as
to the nature of the work experienced by the pet1t10ner in the clandestine body,
mav require that the petitioner, if accepted by the Lodge, shall go thro~gh the
entire ritual of the degrees or that he may be initiated, passed and raised by
obligation alone. Unless a different procedure is directed by the Grand Master
or the Grand Lodge, the full ceremony of the ritual for each of the degrees
must be followed.
Quebec (1936):
. .
.
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of M1ch1gan in
his address remarks that "an applicant for the degrees m~st b_e of goo? moral
character and he must solemnly aver that he has no licentious or immoral
habits,-he must certify that his associates are of a respecta~le ch.ara~ter.''. He
then proceeds by stating that a man engaged in the. sale. of intox1.cating liquor
is not of a respectable character, that he must be licentious. and 1m~oral, and
he rules that no Lodge may accept any man for membership who 1s engaged
in the sall:' of intoxicating beverages at retail.
To this statement the writer takes exception, perhaps the Grand Master
is not · aware that a considerable revenue from the Endow~ents of the .~hurc_h
of England is derived from the rents of what are called in England Public
Houses" and consequently the Archbishops, and Bishops of the Church. are. not
of respectable character and the managers of th~ best hotels must be licent10us
and immoral. 0 mortal men be wary how ye iudge.

*

*

*

*

(Gra~ Master): I fear the depression period m~y have resulted in a.n?-tural
tendency to laxity regarding the worthiness of candidates for mer:ibersh1p. C?ur
Order of course, is not enriched by undesirables. The regulations regarding
this U:atter are very strict and should be rigidly observed. The two brothers

611

who sponsor the application, the Committee on Investigation and the Worshipful
Master have it in their hands to determine largely the future status of Masonry
in this Province. Those whose names count upon our roll today whose moral
standards are low have created a difficult problem for the guardians of the
principles for which Masonry stands. They besmirch its good name, they
weaken its influence, they are destroyers rather than builders. But who made us
infallible judges in such conditions? The solution, if such we can call it, in the
less glaring and questionable cases, may be simply the application of the principle oi the "Great Teacher"-"Let the wheat and tares grow together unto the
harvest."
West Virginia (1936):
( Grnnd Master): Several requests for dispensations to confer degrees in a
shorter time than Stated Communications have also ~been denied. I have just
lately returned from the conferences of Grand Masters of the United States
where this subject was discussed at length. It was the unanimous opinion that
our ritual and catechisms constitute the foundation stones of our Fraternity
and except in extreme cases like war or military service no candidate should be
considered greater than our Constitution, Laws, and Usages. Masonry has a
right to the reputation of being a difficult organization in which to gain
admittance. and an easy one to get out of. It horiors every man whom it accepts
into membership but no man, no matter what his position, power or intluence,
honors Masonry by becoming a member except by his daily living as an upright,
just, useful, reputable and patriotic citizen.

LEAVES BEFORE THE STORM ·
Originally Communism had a real meaning, but the term is now generally used to designate one who has progressive ideas or does not agree
with his opponent. Considering it in its original sense, as well as emphasizing other "isms" of a like character, our Country is faced with a rising
tide of lawlessness which must cause grave concern. Our organization
must play its part, not by the mere passing of resolutions or lip service,
but action.
The United States today needs leaders with the stamina of General
John A. Dix, who at the outbreak of the Civil War ordered, "If any man
attempts to haul down the American Flag shoot him on the spot." Those
who are most active in attempting to undermine our Government, when
met with opposition, are the first to appeal to law and order.
Arkansas ( 1936):
(Grand Master): I see the necessity of every Mason not only in this but in
every Grand Jurisdiction, living true to the ideals of the Fraternity. We are
in the era of changing governments in the world. We know that a democracy
under the control of good men is the greatest form of government on earth, but
it is the most dangerous when under the control of bad men and it is not only
our privilege, but it is our duty to be informed in our principles and ideals and
then to exercise in behalf of the general welfare of all our American people.
We must not countenance a practice of the nullification of good laws and edicts
which safeguard the moral fibre of the institution of Freemasonry. A law that
is a good law ought to be obeyed, and if it is not obeyed punishment ought to
bl! inflicted. But if there be bad laws in our code then they ought to be repealed
and not nullified.

*

*

*

*

612

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

(Grand Lodge): The Committee on Atheistic Propaganda reported that .
"1. That there are six times as many communists in the United States now
as there were in Russia in the time of the revolution.
"2. That there are twice as many communists in the United States now
as there are in Russia.
"3. That there are 300 .communist newspapers and magazines in the United
States.
"4. That the communists maintain 38 inte~nationales of communists in the
United States.
"5. The communists are now organized in the United States to take over
and confiscate all banks, farms, factories and all forms of business.
"6. That there is a Commonwealth College at Mena, Arkansas, supported
by men high in the counsels of the United States Government.
"7. That the communists maintain 28 national defense movements in the
United States to set free those who are arrested in their efforts to overthrow
our government.
"8. That Russian communists published and shipped to this country for distribution over 200,000 school books for American children.
"9. That the communists maintain 300 communist schools in the United
States."
If this is the fact it is something of which Masons as individuals should
take serious thought, but we do not believe that Masonry as an institution should
meddle with it.
District of Columbia (1936):
(Grand Master}: Masonry is having its testing right now. Among my
duties (as an employee of the postal department) is that of issuing postage
stamps, and I issued a certain commemorative stamp called "The Valley Forge
Stamp," and I chose for the design the l}ainting of Washington at prayer at
Valley Forge, and underneath, I had these words, "In God We Trust." The
second day after the issuance of the stamp, the communistic or atheistic
societies, through their spokesman, had articles on the editorial !}ages of a
ctrtain paper, criticising me for issuance of that stamp, saying that I was entirely uninformed, that. Washington never !}rayed in his life, and that it was
trying to force religion down the throats of .the American peoi>le.
Georgia . (1936) :
(Grand Master): Communism endeavors to overthrow allegiance to God
and Nation, bringing instead atheism, lust, revolution, chaos and final destruction of religious and personal liberty. Its doctrines will close our schools and
Masonic Lodges. I appeal to you as Masons to protect our Fraternity and ~
citizens to use every effort in your power to stand for and uphold Americaa
Righteousness and American Freedom in your allegiance to your God and your
Republic and to aid the !}roper representatives and officers of the law in the
preservation of American ideals. In combating all unwholesome influences, is
it not our Masonic duty to set our house in order as individual Masons, looking
only to the Great Light of Masonry as our only rule and guidance?
Masonry knows no policies but the politics of the Constitution of the United
' States and no i>arty except that of the American Flag. As American citizens,
Masons should exercise their suffrage by seeing that leaders of these ideals
should be named and maintained in position to keel} safe our Country's
freedom.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

613

Indiana (1937):
(Elmer F. Gay, Reviewer): For those desiring factual information on this
subject with a minimum of argument, we refer the reader to the "Report of Committee on Americanization," found in the 1936 Proceedings of the Grand Lodge,
Free and Accepted Masons in Michigan, pages 196 to 211, inclusive. This report
is too extensive for the purposes of our review and does not lend itself to convenient dissection.
Iowa (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): At the 1934 session of the Grand
Lodge of Arkansas, by a unanimous vote of the Grand Lodge, a special committee was authorized to investigate the charge that active prol}aganda was
being carried on in the State of Arkansas to promote atheistic teachings. In
the Proceedings it is noted that this committee was never called together and
never made any attemi>t to carry on its work. It d1d not present any report
but a member of the committee submitted a minority report which is i>rinted in
the Proceedings. It does not al}pear to have been officially adopted. This
minority report l}oints out the work done by a committee of the State Legislature of Arkansas which was appointed to investigate a certain college. This
committee of the Legislature presented a report concerning an institution near
Mena, Arkansas, known as Commonwealth College. At that time the president
of this institution was a certain Lucien Koch who had succeeded a certain
Dr. E. W. Zeuch. Both of these gentlemen now occul}y positions with the
Federal Government at Washington. The !}resent head of this institution,
according to this minority report, goes by the name of Post although in reality
hi·s name is Postowsky and the !}resent secretary is a woman by the name of
Charlotte Moskowitz. The minority report presents certain testimony given to
the Legislative Committee by Lucien Koch and Charlotte Moskowitz which is
interesting to say the least.
Question put to Lucien Koch: "Do you believe in a God?"
Answer : "No."
Next question: "Do y-0u .respect the American Flag?"
Answer: "I refuse to answer without advice of counsel."
Question put to a certain teacher in the college : "Do you believe in a
Supreme Being?"
Answer: "No, sir."
Question put to Charlotte Moskowitz: "Do you respect that flag up there?" .
Answer : "I do not respect any symbol."
Question: "What do you think that flag is?"
Answer: "I do not know."
From this minority report we draw the information that the Federal
Emergency Relief Association of the United States Government is financing
four scholarships in Commonwealth College.
Michigan (1935):
(Grand Lodge): Be It Resolved, That .the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Michigan here and riow declares itself a zealous
an ardent supporter of our present system of American government; that it
rededicates itself to the upholding of the Constitution of the United States and
that of the State whose name it bears ; that it here and now re-affirms its faith
in the institutions and ideals of liberty and human rights which are the heritag·e
of every American citizen; that it here and no'W renews its fidelity to the oath
of American citizenship, whether administered or implied, to defend its country
and support its laws in peace or war, and that it will accept no doctrine,

614

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ph1losophy or theory of government at variance with what is expressed in the
Constitution of the United States, . except as change may be made through
orderly constitutional procedure, and
·
Be It Further Resolved, That this Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State .of Michigan, consider the promotion of activities having
for their purpose the combating of the aforesaid evils by bringing before
i.ts own members and the Commonwealth of Michigan the need of constructive
patriotism and the fostering of American principles in our own lives, in our
homes, schools and houses of worship; that it set up and make available to
every member a program of American thinking based upon American ideals
and traditions.
Michigan (1936):
(Committee on Americaniaation): The Committee on Americanization
made a long but interesting report sketching the history and activities of
Conununism, Fascism and Nazi-ism in the course of which they stressed
especially the danger in this country of the first named. Their recommendation
follows:
"As the problem is largely an educational problem, this Grand Lodge
should on all proper occasions promote and contribute to the observance of
patriotic occasions and the study of American traditions, ideals and our form
of government and the principles w'hich underlie the same; also, that this
Grand Lodge, in a proper and dignified manner, should at all times concern
itself with matters of the instruction of our youth and should therefore properly concern itself with our public school system, the subjects taught therein
and the selection of its personnel to the end that a proper appreciation of th~
sacrifices and struggles of our forefathers which secured to us and our posterity
the inestimable privileges of free government should be understood and known
by them and create in their hearts and minds an adequate appreciation and love
of our institutions."
In line with this interest in youth the Grand Lodge accepted "the sponsorship of the Order of DeMolay and will lend such moral and financia-1 support
to the progress of DeMolay as seems proper and worthy."
Nebraska (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A number of Jurisdictions, par~icularly in the far west, are troubled with Communists joining the Order and
afterwards causing dissensions in the Lodge.
The Grand Lodge of Oregon has made it a Masonic offense for any member to be affiliated with Conununist organizations. In one case a member was
tried for unmasonic conduct for holding such membership and expelled from
the Fraternity.
Nevada (1935):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Listen to this: Roger Baldwin,
one of the directors of the so-called American Civil Liberties Union when
appearing before the Committee to .Investigate Conununist Activities 'replied
as follows to questions asked him about that body :
'
The Chairman: Does your organization uphold the right of a citizen or an
alien, it makes no difference which, to advocate murder?
Mr. Baldwin: Yes.
The Chairman : Or assassination?
Mr. Baldwin: Yes.
The Chairman: Does your organization uphold the right of an American
citizen to advocate force and violence for the overthrow of government.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

615

Mr. Baldwin: Certainly, insofar as mere advocacy is concerned.
The Chairman: Does it uphold the right of an alien in this country to urge
the overthrow and advocate the overthrow of the government by force or
violence?
·
Mr. Baldwin: Precisely on the same basis as any citizen.
The Chairman: You do uphold the right of an aiien to advocate the overthrow of the government by force or violence?
Mr. Baldwin: Sure, certainly. It is the healthiest kind of thing for a
country of course to have free speech-unlimited.
Some of these endowments, or foundations as they are usually called,
have been brought gradually under control of un-American, foreign-minded
groups. They fill our colleges with disloyal professors, who, with their radical
programs, are forced on our colleges by refusal of the foundations to give funds
to any college unless it takes professors of that type. And particularly must
the colleges accept the radical program furnished.
In Russia, according to accounts from that country, no less than two million
who were· accused of opposition to a dictatorship have been put to death or
banished to frozen Siberia. In both Germany and Italy we read of numerous
executions and deportations, and of thousands held in concentration camps.
We have seen it grow to complete domination of three great countries,
in all of which it has dismembered our Order. In one country, at least,
it has banished the Christian religion.
North Carolina (1935):
(Grand Master): There is no place in our Order for anarchists or conspirators against government and law--either Masonic law or civil law. It seems
to me that every Mason should realize the paramount mission of our Order, its
responsibility to the world around us, and the opportunity it affords for all good
men to stand up under its b'anner against the discordant elements that seem to
be threatening our land. There is no lack of interesting questions that could be
discussed. We may study conditions, ideas, and theories as they are and measure
them by the Masonic standards of what they should be, that we may arrive at
a better understanding of how to meet and solve the problems they present.
Oregon (1935):
(Grand Master): The Grand Master reported having issued a Circular
calling upon .the Masters, Wardens, and Brethren of each and every Masonic
Lodge within the jurisdiction of Oregon to use every effort at their command
to pur-ge the membership of any and all persons adhering to or promulgating
the doctrine of Communism.

• • • •

(Grand Lodge): Charges of un-Masonic conduct were preferred against
the Senior Deacon of one Lodge, the charge 'being that he was a Communist.
He was tried :by a commission appointed by the Grand Master, found guilty and
was expelled.
Utah (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We· do not see eye to c:ye with
the writer, in his comment (under Masonic Influence, in Politics and Business)
on the action of some Lodge which tried and expelled a Brother who was
charged with being a Communist, and he follows with the statement that:
"It is entirely probable that charges might as justly be preferred against many
Brethren for being Republicans, or Democrats or Socialists, ·etc." To this we
would say; most assuredly prefer charges against a Republican, Democrat or
Methodist, if he advocates the ov~rthrow of the government, destruction of the

616

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

home, and the institutions which have made possible the progress which ha1
marked the history of this people; and this by revolution. As we see the mattt'r,
the cases are not parallel ; there are no grounds of comparsion between a mcm
ber of one of the major political parties, advocating change of principle and
policy; and one who substitutes an entirely different forin of government
for the one we know and support.

*

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): This institution, Commonwealth
College, Mena, Arkansas, and its work were investigated by the legislature, In
which Grand Lodge co-operated. One Lucien Koch, head of the college, testified
that "he was not a believer in God, refused to answer questions as to respect
for the American Flag." His predecessor in the college was Dr. E. W. Zeuch,
"now chief of the Planning Division of the Subsistence Homesteads in the
Department of Agriculture, one of the 'Brain Trust'." This also was brought
out at the investigation, "that the Federal Emergency Relief Association is
financing four ·scholarships in Commonwealth." It seems that shortly after the
legislature adjourned, this man Koch gave up his position as head of the
"College," and went to Washington, where he now occupies an important
executive position in the Welfare Work of the Federal Government.
Are the beneficiaries of the scholarship, financed by the Government, being
trained in Commonwealth College for important positions in the Service of the
Government they would destroy if they could and und~r the flag they would
spit upon!
REFLECTED GLORY
Organizations which have as a requirement membership in the Masonic
Fraternity have assumed a grave responsibility, because to the general
public they represent Masonry and their sins of both omission and commission are viewed as a part of the system. In our educational system we
have the Public School, Junior ColleKe and the University, each serving a
worthy purpose, and so perhaps do the coordinate bodies of Masonry.
We are charKed that we owe a duty to our neiKhbor, and when we
consider the Shriners' Hospitals for Crippled Children, the Knights Templar
Educational Loan Fund, the Scottish Rite's efforts on behalf of the Public
Schools, the Sciots' Foundation for Convalescent and Undernourished
Children, the work of the Order of DeMolay, the Rainbow Girls and Job's
Daughters, and other activities in support of Masonry, as well as helping the
other fellow, perhaps we can be tolerant of some of the regrettable actions
complained of. They can be remedied by constructive action rather than
criticism.
District of Columbia (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It is a rare case nowadays when
a Grand Lodge gives permission for a Lodge to sponsor such organizations as
the DeMolay and Boy Scouts. Not that they do any particular harm to the
sponsoring body, and no doubt they do much good in their fields, but this
writer has always believed it was bad policy to give any such organizations
even a tentative connection with the Craft. With organizations composed of
Masons it is somewhat different, although there have been many times when
these organizations made a plague of themselves, and brought down upon themselves censure and discipline. But the tendency among Grand Lodges continues
to em!}hasize their own supremacy in matters Masonic, and it is gradually coming to the knowledge of the brethren that they are responsible to the Grand
Lodge for their conduct first, last, and all the time.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

617

Illinois (1935):
(Grand Master): With the internal affairs of these organizations Masonry
does not care to interfere. Supervision or regulation of their management,
ritual, ceremonies, meetings, or social activities is neither practical nor desirable. Masonry, however, has the right to insist and must insist that these
organizations and their members shall not violate the fundamentals of Masonry,
the ancient landmarks, the long established principles and practices, and those
regulations of modem times adopted in deference to prevailing public opinion
in matters religious, moral, or social in order that Masonry might continue to
hold the res.pect and good opinion of mankind. Illustrative of the l~tter, I cite,
the prohibition against Masons appearing in public drinking saloons in Masonic
clothing and the Masonic rule of Sunday observance.
Iowa (1935):
(Grand Master): I do not believe that there was ever a time in the history
of Masonry when it was as essential that the various bodies and organizations
of Masonry should be as closely connected and work as close in harmony as
at the present time. And with this in mind, the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch
Ma·sons in Iowa is sponsoring a movement for the closer co-operation, and a
closer association between the various Masonic bodies, the Blue Lodge and the
York Rite and the Scottish Rite because if it should ever come to a time when
we should have in this country some of the trouble that they have had in
'foreign countries, it would be very necessary that Masonry be on a very firm
foundation. We are asking the Royal Arch Chapters to do everything in their
power to further the interest of the Blue Lodges.
Maine (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The customary "slap on the
wrist" was given by Grand Lodge (Tennessee) to those organizations basing
membership on Masonic affiliation for we read that the Grand Master "forcibly
admonished the brethren of the treacherous nature of the ground over which
they were passing, and in each instance I was promised that the matter would
not be repeated." This Maine reviewer is bound to say that he has watched this
mild procedure for neady twenty years, and it is seldom effective and about
the only Grand MaMer who has really and vitally acted, but using the expulsion
method, was the Grand Master of Illinois. Politics also, came in for a good
verbal drubbing at the hands of Grand Master Roberts and we learn from
him that certain members have been making tremendous promises of Masonic
votes, in one case "five thousand in Chattanooga."
Massachusetts (1934):
(Grand Lodge): Brother Melvin M. Johnson spoke a noble word with
regard to the exalted station occupied by him in the Scottish Rite. Then, in
an after-d·inner mood he added:
"There is no higher office in the world, Masonically, than to be Grand Master
of Masons in Massachusetts, in my opinion. So far as the Wes tern hemisphere
is concerned, that certainly is true, because he is the ranking Grand Master,
Massachusetts being the senior Grand Lodge of the Western hemisphere. Why
h:igher than to be Grand Master of a foreign Grand Lodge? With all due
respect the Grand Master of Masons in England gets there because he is a
prince of the blood royal. The Grand Master of Masons in Massachusetts gets
there because he is a prince, yes, but he is a prince by the votes and suffrages
of his Brethren. He is chosen to the job, and not born to it ....
"The Blue Lodge contains all there is in Free.masonry, just exactly as
all there is· in the whole Bible is contained in two verses of it . . . the two
verses which command that you shall love God and love your fellow man.

618

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

But it takes hundreds of chapters and thousands of words and repetition by
sermon, and story, by fable, by parable, and by history to develop those two
verses, so that human kind may be able to take in and learn to the full what
is condensed in those two verses.
"Just so, all there is in Freemasonry is withln the teachings of the Blue
Lodge. Beyond that, the organization: known as the Scottish Rite elaborates
the lessons of symbolic Freemasonry and appeals: to the eye and ear by
symbolism, by sermon, by allegory, by teaching, and by story. It is the college
of Freemasonry, that brings to the heart and mind of every Freemason who
sees fit to go through those degrees a fuller appreciation of the principles of
Freemasonry that he ·can have when he takes his Freemasonry so condensed
as necessarily he gets it in the Blue Lodge. But after all, the Blue Lodge is the
mother of all Freemasonry; the dictator of all Freemasonry.
"The Grand Master of Masons in Massachusetts can by his order this
minute suspend me from membership in the Craft, notwithstanding the f a~t that
I happen to be Sovereign Grand Commander of the Scottish Rite. If that does
not indicate that he has the highest job of any of us, I do not know what does."
New Zealand (1936):
(Grand Lodge): Attention of Brethren is drawn to the fact that a
spurious and clandestine Masonic Organization, ·known as Co-Masonry, is
operating in the territory. This OOdy professes to work the three degrees of
Craft Masonry, to admit women, confer ·signs and secrets and endeavors in
different ways to copy the practices of Freemasonry, and from time to time
members of the Craft are invited to attend the meetings. Brethren must not
attend any meetings of this Co-Masonic body, as by doing so they will be
violating their obligations and will render themselves liable to Masonic
discipline.
Oregon (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): On numerous occasions during
the past year, as recorded in their messages, Grand Masters- have had occasion
to bring every pressure to bear to restrain a certain organization from indulging
in practices, unlawful in character and detrimental to the reputation of the
Craft. In one instance drastic punishment wa·s meted out to a group of misguiped individuals who flaunted the authority of the Grand LOdge. Time was,
when a Grand Master raised his voice in protest over the antics of some of
these bodies, that abuse, vituperations and threats were rained upon him. Times
have changed. The concept in the past was crystalized into a conviction. The
Grand Lodge, wlth the Grand Master as its head, backed by its Code of Laws,
is supreme in all things Masonic. All other bodies, so long as they predicate
their membership on a Masonic affiliation, must conduct their affairs in a
manner that will not bring discredit on the parent body, weaken the moral fibre
of its members, nor annul that great precept that enjoins us to obey the laws
of the country in which we live.
Pennsylvania (1935):
(Grand Master): The attention of the Grand Master has been repeatedly
called to practices by the members of these appendant organizations which are
un-Masonic in character. Technically, this is beyond the control of the Grand
Master and Grand Lodge, and for that reason it might be said that it fa not
our concern. These organizations are regarded by the public at large, however,
as being Masonic, inasmuch as they are made up exclusively of Masons; and,
as the public is not aware of the lack of control by Grand Lodge over these
organizations, they rightly look to the proper Masonic authorities to correct
these evils.

619

Grand Lodge should not take the responsibiJ.ity of supervising or regulating
'the ceremonies or the social or other activities of these unaffiliated bodies. In
view of the fact, however, that these external groups have a pre-requisite
the existence of Masonic Degrees as a qualification for membership, we must
insist that these organizations and their members do not violate the fundamental principles and practices .of Freemasonry, and we must also insist that
the individual conduct of their members shall be such that · the good opinion
and respect of the public at large shall not be destroyed thereby.
Texas (1935):
(Grand Master): This Grand Lodge has on many occasions taken the position that it is not responsible for . any of these pseudo-Masonic organizations,
and that none of them form any part of Ancient Craft Masonry. The stubborn fact remains that by reason of the widespread use of the word "Masonic"
in connection with such organizations, and because their memberships are
made up exclusively of Masons~and in certain cases, the families of Masonsthe public is led to believe that they are in fact Masonic. Indeed, the general
public seems to recognize some of these organizations as being the very highest
round in the Masonic ladder. We have a responsibilitY to the public and to
ourselves in this matter, and it seems high time that we concern ourselves with
its discharge.
Ancient Craft Masonry seems to function very well for quite some time
without any of these appendages. Then some enthusiastic brethren seem to have
conceived the idea of other organizations with "side degrees" for us~ther
organizations for our wives-still others for our son~thers yet for our
daughters-and so forth and so on. We find no fault with the purposes of
these organizations. As a .rule, they are doing worthwhile work, and should
continue to do so in their proper sphere. Some of them function as they
should-but others do not always do so in every respect. I raise no question
whatever about the right of any or all of these organizations to exist and
function as the sort and character of organizations which they really are.

*

*

*

As I understand it, the missfon of Masonry includes the promotion of
brotherly love and friendship among its members, the alleviation of human ills,
the erection and perfection of a moral edifice as the similitude of a just and
upright Mason, and other aims and purposes well known to all of us. The
outer world recognizes Masons by their acts as well as by their professions.
With such aims and with such responsibility, Masonry is necessarily stringent
in its regulations and jealous of their infractions.
Texas (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Master of Pennsylvania
calls attention to the fact that: "There are in existence numerous organizations,
a prerequisite to whose membership is the fact that they are Masons." He adds:
"Over these external groups of Masons Grand Lodge has no control." He then
states: "The attention of Grand Master has been repeatedly called to practices
by the members of these appendant organizations which are un-Masonic in
character," and holds that "Technically, this is beyond the control of the
Grand Master and Grand Lodge, and for that reason it might be said that it is
not our concern." As organizations, true, but we are left to wonder (personally
we know nothing of any of these save and except the Eastern S-tar) where is
to ibe found the line of demarkation between these and those named in Pennsylvania's "established regulation that Freemasons under the Jurisdiction of
Pennsylvania 'cannot be associated, either directly or indirectly with the Order
of the Eastern Star, the White Shrine of J erusalem, the Amaranths' or any
organization whose membership is comprised of both sexes, and which in any

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

620

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

way has Masonic affiliation as a J>rerequisite, etc...." Is it in that the first are
"comprised of both sexes" while those now comi>la:ined of are comprised
wholly of Ma:sons? If so, it does seem to us that a like prohibition to that
fixed against the first named groups would :be even more effective if applied to
the latter. In the first instance, the good women are left unmolested in their
activities whereas in the second a "nude colony" without the "colony" would
be the result. After all, why the announcement: "This is' a matter which must
be seriously investigated by Grand Lodge in an official way and in the meantime
individual Master Masons, who are members of these external groups and who
indulge in conduct unbecoming a Mason, should be held to strict accountability." So say we, but why this delayed day of reckoning? The permitting
of "un-Masonic conduct" in a Mason because of his membership in an "External Group of Masons" is extending of unwarranted recognition to such
"Group" or organization.
Texas (1936):
(Committee on Policy and Purposes): Masonry asks certain definite questions of and requires definite and unequivocal answers from those who knock
at its doors. Certainly, it is un-Masonic to use Blue Lodge Masonry as a mere
stepping stone to so-ca.lied higher degrees. It is the mature judgment of many
thinking Masons that before a Master Mason shall be called so for all pur1>05es, he be required to stand his examination on the Master's Degree and pronounced proficient by his Lodge. However, it is well esta,blished that this
Grand Lodge recognizes and approves the systems of York and Scottish Rite
Masons as set up in this State, and has for a long time worked in complete
harmony with the Grand Bodies governing the same.
Utah (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It is more than passing strange
that Masons who have taken the most solemn obHgations to obey the laws of
Grand Lodge (not to mention those higher obligations to God and man) can so
easily, apparently, convince themselves that somehow membership in the organizations referred to releases them from their duty to the only sovereign Masonic.
Grand Body to which allegiance is primarily due and that their standing in
symbolic Lodges- upon which affiliation in these other bodies is based-is
conditioned upon their recognition of and obedience to Grand Lodge regulations. Yet, it is only necessary to refer the reader to matters of recent occurrences in California and Illinois and in some other Jurisdictions for illustrations
of the folly of such groups of Masons.
Wisconsin (1936):
(Grand Master): Previous Grand Masters, in this and other Grand Jurisdictions, have viewed with positive alarm the multiplication of mushroom
bodies, all clamoring for recognition and for an opportunity to meet in our halls.
To all such requests I have turned a deaf ear, even when they have come from
some of my best friends. When the per capita tax of this GTand Lodge, which
amounts to about three cents a week, is regarded as too great, I suspect it is
frequently due to the fact that brethren who want to belong to everything that
comes along find their total of fraternal dues a real burden. Often their
activities are in the appendages and the foundation of it all is neglected. It is
not surprising then that it is hard to pay dues in a body with so little claim upon
a brother's time as the Blue Lodge.
In my opinion the time is rapidly awroaching, if not already here, when
the good old shiP' must go into dry dock and have the barnacles scraped off
without regard for the feelings of those who are so zealous in their support qf
such societies.

621

Some of these societies are occupying our sacred temples as guests, yet
when they are requested to observe certain properties, we meet with insolence.
We would fiercely resent invasion of our homes by strangers, yet we tolerate
the use of our temples by societies that are foreign to Freemasonry. They
occupy our stations, use our altars, pry into preparation rooms and in other
ways abuse the privileges granted them.
I trust I may live to see the day when our temples shall be closed to all who
are not Masons, when we may perhaps recapture something of that awe
which we once felt when we first found ourselves within the hal1owed precincts
of our Masonic Lodge.
Wisconsin (1936):
(Grand Master): Wisconsin Shriners have proved themselves good Masons,
yet there is no denying that the Shrine in some states is not reflecting credit
upon the craft. The non-Mason regards the institutions as an integral part of
Freemasonry. When thoughtless fezbedecked brethren, many of whom have no
interest whatever in Masonry, conduct themselves in public in a manner that
creates a mistaken notion of what Freemasonry really is, i~ becomes the concern
of the craft. Imperial officers of the Shrine are constantly reminding their
members that they are first of all Master Masons and should not permit the
conviviality, which is so easily stimulated by so simple a thing as a red fez,
to carry th~m away; but anyone who has ever attended an imperial council
session knows what happens. There is no trace of true Freemasonry in . the
Shrine. It is as foreign to Masonry as any of the dozens of fraternities that
men love to join and which try to promote fellowship and mutual help, but so
long as its membership is made up exclusively of Masons, it must exp~ct to
conform to Masonic law and principles.
SERMONS IN STONES
As stated by the Chairman' of the Correspondence Committee of Missouri, perhaps the desire to garner votes, as well as realizing the desire to
be a part of the ·passing parade, influences invitations to participate in the
laying of cornerstones. To this might also be added the viewpoint of
those having charge of the building being erected, whether from a political
angle or otherwise.
We read in the Proceedings of New Mexico that at the laying of the
cornerstone of the Post Office at Carlsbad there was read a letter from
Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau, and a Brother present was
the personal representative of Postmaster General Farley.
District of Columbia (1936):
(Grand Master): 0 f the public activities of our Grand Lodge during the
period under <;onsideration, the laying of cornerstones with Masonic ceremonies
takes a prominent place. A compilation of these events shows that the cornerstones of 27 buildings were so laid. These included churches, Lodge halls, schooI
and college buildings, the new National Educational Association building and
the buildings of the Department of Labor and the Interstate CommeTce Com.
mission. At several of these ceremonies, prominent officials of the United
States Government were present and spoke, among them being Presidents William H. Taft and Herbert Hoover, Vice-President Thomas .Riley Marshall;· and
the then Assistant Secretary of the Navy, and now President Franklin D.
Roosevelt.
'Special mention should be made of the un~ual and unique ceremony performed at the laying of the cornerstones of the new buildings of the ·

622

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Department of Labor and the Interstate Commerce Commission. These ceremonies were held on the same date and at the same hour, simultaneously,
although the two buildings are located two city blocks from each other. Grand
Master Reuben A. Bagley officiated at the Labor Department building, and a
group of brethren, headed by Past Grand Master Gratz E. Dunkum, were
appointed and deputized to officiate at the Interstate Commerce Commission
building. By means of loud speakers, electrically controlled, the ceremony was
synchronized so that the brethren who were deputized to act at the Interstate
Commerce Commission building were able to follow the ceremony at the Labor
Department building and enact the visual portions of it. The propriety of this
course may give rise to question, but there is what we regard as ample authority
for it. lti May, 1932, our Mother Grand Lodge of England laid the
"Dedication Stone" of the Freemason's Ho,spital at Ravenscourt Park, the
ceremony actually being conducted in Olympia, London, miles away from
the hospital.
In leaving this subject of laying cornerstones, it will not be amiss to make
record of the fact -that, in 'the earlier days of our Republic, most of the public
buildings of Washington were laid by our Grand Lodge. I cite, as exam.pies, the
United States Capitol, the Smithsonian Institution, the Washington Monument,
the War College, even the cornerstone of the District of Columbia. It is much
to ,be regretted that modern and present day officials do not see fit to invite our
Grand Lodge to participate in the erection of government buildings by conducting this ancient and time-honored ceremony. It is beautiful in its symbolism
and impressive in its rendition.
Missouri (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Notwithstanding the increased
number of buildings being erected by public funds in recent years, there is a
growing decrease in the number of cornerstones which are laid with Masonic
rites and ceremonies. Again, the reviewer has his own opinions as to why. We
have purposely made a study of the number of cornerstones laid in the United
States during· the past year and find that the number is largc!ly dependent
upon the weakness or strength of the fraternity in the community in which
the building is being erected. In other words, if there are Masonic votes to be
secured, the ·probabilities are the project will secure favorable consideration.
Virginia (1936):
(Grand Lodge): The cornerstone of the Lodge building of RichmondRandolph Lodge No. 19, was laid on October 12, 1785. It is the oldest building
in the United States in constant use for Masonic purposes.

THE FOURTH ESTATE OF MASONRY
A number of the .Jurisdictions during the past few years eliminated
the printing of the Correspondence Report, in others they strangled the
same by restricting it to a limited number of pages, and in others printed
the review in a Grand Lodge publication or some other paper. Undoubtedly the absence of the Report, where it was temporarily eliminated
has called attention to its value, as some of the Jurisdictions have made
provision to again issue it.
The Grand Master of Arkansas in 1934 said :
"I believe any Grand Master will be a better Grand Master, and I am
sure he will be a better informed Mason if he will take the time to read
the Fraternal Correspondence in the several Jurisdictions."

623

North Carolina (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Of late the great indoor sport
amo~g the persons high in authority in Masonry :-.as been that of throwing
Foreign Correspondence Reports into the ashcan unprinted, so to speak. Taking
all Grand Lodges, Grand Councils, Grand Chapters and Grand Commanderies
it is safe to s.aY. th~t this process. has hit half of them-and it is safe to sa;
!hat of the ehmmat10ns. half a;e m Grand Lodges which could get the report
mt<;> the annual expenditures 1f they really wanted it enough-in fact, this
scribe undertakes to show that in about that number of cases they make
expenditures for other items no more necessary and to as great an amount as
the report would cost.
Wyoming (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee):
"From Alabama to Wisconsin state
I've travelled by early light and evening late,
From the North, the South, the East the West
Proceedings have come as the sender 'thought best
I've thumbed their pages o'er and o'er,
'
To find the ·best of Masonic lore.
The gleanings I gathered, I give to you
And in our proceedings, you'll find my r~view."

DUKE OF WINDSOR
. A deputation of brethren was appointed to present. to His Majesty,
King Edward VIII (now Duke of Windsor) the Loyal Address voted by
the Grand Lodge. In response to the presentation, His Majesty, who is
a member of the Craft, had the followin& to say:
"Most Worshipful Grand Mas·ter, Most Worshipful Pro Grand Master
Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master, and Brethren; it gives me much
pleasure to. meet you her~ today, and to receive from so distinguished and
representative a Deputation from the Fraternity of Antient Free and
Accepted Masons of England (including the Supreme Order df the Royal
Arch), this Address, expressive of the sympathy of Freemasons on the
death of King George, and of their good wishes for the happiness and
prosperity of my Reign.
"Although King George was not himself a Freemason he took a keen
interest in all Masonic activities, and less than three years' ago he opened
the Royal Masonic Hospital.
'
"Durin~ the ?'ears that followed my initiation into Masonry, I found
much happiness in the work attached to the high Offices I was called
upon to fill, and I came to appreciate how deeply Freemasons are inspired
by the lofty ideals of the Craft.
"Throughout my Reign, I shall count upon the active support which
I know the wh~le .FtaternHy will give, in order to alleviate hardships, and
promote the prmc1ple of Brotherhood in its fullest sense. ·
"It wa.s with real regret that I relinquis·hed my former Offices in the
Craft and m the Royal Arch."
One of the outstandi.n g events in the Masonic world occurred on
November 30, 1936 when H. R. H. the Duke of York (now King George
VI) was installed as Grand Master of Masons of the Grand Lodge of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Scotland. uver three tqousand Masons were J::'.resent a~d from th~.repo;~:
of those present it was a most gorgeous d1spl;i.y..smc; ~cen~ng
d
throne, in conformity .:with custom, George VI res1gne t e 0 ce an
became a Past Grand Master.

and the business affairs of a Lodge must be conducted in a business way, with
impartiality and justice to all, if the Lodge is to succeed and harmony prevail.

TOMORROW MAY BE FAIRER?

~

Financial affairs of any organization are governed by eco~omic laws
that cannot be violated without ~ttendingh resultds.. Tt~: t~:~~ o~ ~~=~~:~
d " ·
eat many cases 1s more onore m
.
o servance Some live in the hope that conditions will
bu. g~t m a gr
1
~~;~~ ~~: ~~~~t:, ~ather th~ direct legislation or "cutting the garment

625.

• • • •
(Grand Master): Many Masters and Secretaries were found who had
not the slightest idea of the Masonic law on the subject of dues; in fact, some
of them could not find a Code, and in some extreme cases I doubt whether they
knew that there is such a thing. In such cases, correspondence accomplished
nothing, and it was necessary to fall back on our Special Representative system.

Florida (1937):
·
d G d
Chairman Correspondence Committee): It is refreshmg to rea a ra!1
Masfer's address (Ireland) and see no reference to ?ues, col!ectc;d or dehn. ·t n·d no reference to finances except as to charity contributions.
quen , a
h ·
th G d
N ne need to be too shy to subsc.ribe a small sum to c anty, e ran
Maste~ ~ays. One hundred one-guinea su?scriptions is b7tter than . one onehundred subscription, he says, as representing the more widespread interest.

Massachusetts (1935):
(Grand Master): The principles inherent in our institution should set us
apart from any other in our charitable consideration for a temporarily embarrassed member. The ordinary bill for dues, followed up with a . coldly impersonal letter, and the subsequent more or less perfunctory demand for money,
such as would be deemed sufficient in an ordinary club, certainly does not
suffice.
In determining the Lodge's responsibility, the first thing to be learned
is the individual's Masonic interest. Next,. his ability to pay, which must reveal
his circumstances to a point which will uncover his personal story so that the
Worshipful Master, before recommending suspension for non-payment of
dues, can decide whether he is merely removing from the membership list a
man who is not interested in Masonry or whether he is depriving a worthy
brother of a moral and spiritual support which his Lodge can give him in
his time of trouble.
One conspicuous instance has been noted of a Mason in good standing for
thirty-one years, reported to Grand Lodge and suspended for non-payment of
dues at a time when he was suffering the loss of his business through no
fault of his own. Harassed beyond measure by his sudden reversal of circumstances, from affluence to poverty, mentally disturbed and sick with it all, he
had ceased to open any of his mail, and so did not even read the notice of his
pending suspension. Had a careful inquiry been made of his circumstances,
balanced against his long period of membership, it is unthinkable that the
Lodge would not have protected his membership.
The perplexing problem of unresponsive delinquents can, in a great many
cases, be solved through the assistance of service committees. Delegating investigations to a tactful, carefully selected group will result in uncovering
the reason for many cases of non-payment of dues, and save the Lodge
from unfair action at a time when some brother needs the moral support of
his Lodge to help ltim over a difficult period. Through this investigation many
members can be influenced to reduce their indebtedness in part, if not entirely,
thus making a practical contribution toward the solution of the problems.
At a time when a member is struggling hard to meet various obligations,
and feeling himself losing ground, be will often become bewildered to a point
which warps his judgment and prevents his communicating with officers of his
Lodge. The tragic results of withdrawing that friendship, and brotherly love,
which can be so helpful through such a trying experience, are too apparent
to need emphasis.

Iowa (1936):
·
f
(Grand Master): It seemed that a very essential part of our program or
· the ear should be to make every effort to pay our debts and get back on a
sou:a. financial basis; for although Freemasonry is a .brotherrood, yet ~~o~~l~
love is not accepted as payment for building Masomc temp _es, norf w1 i. u
fuel to 'keep them warm or pay the thousand and one expenses ? runm~g ~
Lodge. Even between blood brothers, business matters must be adiusted fairly,

Nebraska (1936):
(Grand Secretary): People take no pride in belonging to an institution
that is not solvent, and a Lodge, or Grand Lodge, that can't pay its debts, and
pay them when they are due, is going to lose members. Now, brethren, think
about that. I realize that today is perhaps not the day to start to save, and yet
no great thing has ever come in this world to any organization or to any
individual except through struggle. Right now is the time for Lodges and

to fit the cloth."
. fi
· I
Experience has been a costly teacher, not only in Masonic n~c1a
affairs but also in every other walk of life. Whether the remed~ will be
inflation, deflation, repudiation, bankru~tc~ or some other means 1s something that no one can speak upon authoritatively.
Canada (1935):
.
(Grand Master): I have never ~een able .to subscribe to 0e doct~me that
to make a thing cheap is to increase 1ts attractiveness. Emphatically this theo~fl
does not hold true of Freemasonry. The members of this Grand Lodge ~
not misunderstand me when I state that we should proceed on th~ as ~ump:i~n
that membership in a Masonic Lodge is a luxury ~d one; that s <>U • no e
indulged in if by so doing one is ·using money that 1~ reqwred for .family purses. If an applicant is so circumstanced financially that. a difference of
·iwenty or thirty · dollars in the initiation fee means th.e difference. between
coming in and not coming in, surely the luxury of Masomc . m~mbers~1p cannot
·really be afforded at all ·or at least should be deferred until time brmgs easement in the financial ·situation.

1

Florida (1936):
Grand Master): It is said that Holyrood Lodge ~o. 167 of Tampa,
Florlda, has the distinction of operating without .t?e collecho~ of due!i ~t ~~s
· ed i h 12 charter members. Each petitioner who is e1ect . Y e
orodgan1z w t
be sh'1p fee of $300 00 One hundred dollars of this amount
L ge pays. a mem r
: ·.
f d h ·
f
is for the degrees and $200.00 is P.laced m a permanent un , t e mcome o
which takes care of the dues question.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

626

Grand Lodges to place themselves in such a position that if and when a depression strikes again our houses will be in order, so that when our brethren and
their families need assistance, we will be in a position to answer the call.
New York (1936):
(Grand Lodge): A by-law which provides for a classification of candidates by age for the sole purpose of determining the amount of the initiation
fee to be paid by each class is not unconstitutional or contrary to the regulations of Grand Lodge or of the principles of Masonry.
Ore&"on (1935):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A few years ago Masonry
throughout the world was suffering from obesity. It had just put on a superabundance of useless fatty tissue about the waist line and had lost its trim
fighting figure. Old Dr. Dep.ression prescribed a reducing diet which has
caused quite a reduction in membership poundage and a resultant toning up of
the entire structure.
Ore&"on (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A very unusual affair developed
in one of the (Nebraska) Lodges. The Secretary of the Lodge received a phone
call from the wife of one of its members, who was in arrears for dues, in
which she requested him to tell her how much it would cost to put her husband
in good standing again. The Secretary obliging told her and the next morning
received ai check in the mail for the full amount. Later on he learn.ed that the
delinquent brother had suffered a stroke of apoplexy, that had rendered him
unconscious, all of which occurred previous to his telephone conversation with
the wife of the member. All might have been well had not the illness of the
member proved fatal, for with that the astute wife requested that the Lodge
bury her husband and pay the funeral expenses.
The Grand . Master ruled that inasmuch as the brother was unconscious
from the beginning of the attack he could not pay or cause to be paid, and
therefore he had not been reinstated by his wife presenting the money. To
avoid future situations of this kind the Grand Master recommended that a ballot
be taken on reinstatements in the future.
Texas (1934):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): There being so many Masons in
name only, willing to ride through on free passl!s, enjoying the rights and
privileges of the fraternity while loyal and true Freemasons pay their passage
both in dues and personal service. These "free rides" are the same who ultimately furnish the list of those who go out by way of suspension for nonpayment of dues.

627

War.
As one
the Revol f;~~arythGenerals said after Yorktown, "We are
NewofEnglandersu
no longer
ou erners, but all Americans."
Indiana (1936):
(Grand Ma.ster): Is it permissible to rant
of the Confederate army that he be buri
h a reque.st of a former soldier
casket dra.ped with the Confederate flag?e wit Masomc honors and with the

l .

It would be improper to grant such a
Unless ofthetheBrother
loyal to the .present government ' he sho uId norteqbuest.
e a member
Lodge. was
(Committee on Jurisprudence). (7) Wh
was a former soldier of the Confed t
ere a member of the Order who
Masonic honors and with a
k t ;ra e army requests that he be buried with
the judgment of the Grand ::st~r t~ite:h with Confederate flag, we concur in
ence to the use of the Confederate fla . e reque~t of ~he Brother with referproper. While the sentimental attach g I~ ~on~ec~on with Masonic rites is not
served is to be commended in ub~en Mo t ~ ag under which the veterans
emblem would be an occasi~n of poffe~se. asomc ceremonies the use of such

Florida (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Com 'tt )
m~mber
of an Indiana Lodge, requeste::U~e : . An ?ld ~onfederate soldier,
with a Confederate flag.
asomc burial with the casket draped
The Lodge relayed the request to the G d
would be improper to grant such a request" ~~in M~~ter, who ruled that "It
loyal to the present Government ' h e sh ouId' not ,be g,a member
Unless the
f Brother
Lod "was
. Th
, e Jurisprudence Committee affir d
. .
o a
ge.
plied aspersion
by commending "the ~~ the deC1s1on, but removed the imwhich the veteran served."
sen imental attachment to the flag under
From whatever angle it may be •
Horst's implied charge of unworth'
~1ewed or considered, Grand Master
wish that his mortal remains be if:~s, ecause an old man expressed as a last
replica of the Confederate flag unde1d
r~s~ enshrouded in the folds of a
is cruel and uncalled for.
'
r
IC
e fought seventy-odd years ago,

.::i.

The Confederate flag is now forever f I
fought under its folds in their
th
u.r ed, but to the old veterans who
scenes incident to its life and ty~u ' there .lingers fond memories of hallowed
·h
.
•
o impute or imply unwo th"
bee
ment, 1s unworthy of th b
M
.
r mess
ause of such
att ac
be
so judged by right thinkinge menst dasMomc thought and tradition, and will
e an
asons.
New Mexico (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee). A
.
federate army wanted to be buried with .
for~er. soldier
of the ConConf ederate flag over his casket Th G the Masomc honors and with the
that such a request must come fr~m ae d" ~and Master said : "No," and indicated
just a bit of sentiment and perhaps th is oyal Brot~er. We wonder if it wasn't
God bless you.
e answer might as well been, Yes, and

A TIME TO REMEMBER
Wavin&" the "bloody shirt" at one time had a popular appeal, and we
a&"ree with our Southern Brethren that the request of a soldier of the Confederacy could well have been complied with. The fiag stands for certain
ideals. While there was a difference of opinion from '61 to '64, time has
softened the struggles of those days and the "Stars and Bars" represent to
a past and present generation certain accepted ideals of our Country.
Sectionalisms were buried by those who wore the Gray on the battlefields of the Spanish-American War and their descendants in the World

Tennessee (1937):
(Chairman. Correspondence Com "t )
. .
.
attention of the writer has been call:; :: a: T~1s is th: first time that the
We notice that the Grand M
rulmg of this character.
casket with the flag is unlawful, ~~~r
not .hold th.at the draping of the
request, ~nd then he adds-"Unless the ~s that it was improper to grant the
ernment, he should not be a member of th~o~:g:.~s loyal to the present gov-

s:oes

628

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the writer this is an announcement of a new doctrine. We have always
understood that Masonry did not interfere with a man's religious or political
opinions. We have understood that it was req,uired of a member of the Order
that he should believe in the existence of God, and observe as a rule and
standard of his life morality coupled with this belief in the Supreme Being.
This old Brother was of course a member of the Masonic Lodge or the
question would not have arisen as to his burial. The War has been over
seventy years and doubtless in his youth he was as conscientious in his convictions when a young man and in the army as he was afterwards in his belief
and practices as a member of the Masonic Order.
If the doctrine stricti juris should .be applied to the old Brother after his
death, should it not have been applied to the Lodge while he was a member
and before his death. If the Lodge had harbored a disloyal member and permitted an unworthy brother to remain a member therein, wasn't it a little late
to say after his death that just because he asked for an emblem or a souvenir
to .be placed upon his casket that the privilege should be denied him. As the
old lawyers used to say, "Isn't this sticking in the bark," when his life was
before them as a member of the order.
As far back as 1872, Horace Greeley said : "The masses of our countrymen, north and south, are eager to clasp hands across the bloody chasm which
has so long divided us."
Utah (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Indiana
ruled that it would he improper for a Lodge to grant the request of a former
Confederate soldier to be buried with Masonic honors and with the casket
draped with a Confederate flag. With the implication of the grounds assumed
for this decision, we are not in sympathy, viz.: "Unless the Brother was loyal
to the p.resent government, he should not .be a member of the Lodge." Docs it
follow that the Brother was disloyal because he made this request? We think
the implication in the Grand Master's words is not justified, by anything
appearing in the record, and we can understand the sentiment which roots back
in what was, in. the long ago. The Brother may have been as loyal to the
Government as the Grand Master himself. The Jurisprudence Committee
approved the decision, but on the ground that the use of such emblem in a
public Masonic ceremony "would be an occasion of offense." It might be I

SHALL WE TREAD THE SAME PATH?
We wish space would allow us to present the excellent review of the
Chairman of the Correspondence Committee of the Grand Lodge of Missouri, which sets forth at length existing conditions in different localities
other than English speaking Jurisdictions. Just as Masonry in the United
States was stronger after the persecution during the Morgan episode, so
perhaps those Grand Lodges now under the ban <>f Dictators will in time
resume their place in the life of their respective nations.
Connecticut (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The unsettled conditions in
France this year, have made things very difficult for Regular Freemasonry, but
despite these difficulties our Grand Lodge has weathered the storm and the
membership has only slightly diminished. It must be realized that much of the
present unrest in France has been attributed by a large number of people to
the activities of so-called "Freemasons." It is natural therefore that· Regular

629

Freemasonry, which steadfastly refuses to get mixed up in politics should be
adversely affected by these attacks. But we .believe that our ca~se is just
.and that event~lly the Freemasonry of tradition will once more flourish i~
:F~ance. Meantime our Grand Lodge carries on the work and hopes for a
brighter future.
.Some of the Lodges work in French, and some in English.· The same
apphe~ to the Royal Arch Chapters, whilst in the Lodge of t d
s
Claudius No. 21, papers are read in English and in French.
s u y, t.
Illinois (1936):
(Chairm.a1i Corresp~ence Committee): Brother Sawyer (New York)
refers to f~lse and malicious propaganda against Masonry. Fo.r instance, one
ne~s~aper m Italy under government influence, recently published a cartoon
dep1ctmg Masonry as a prostitute dancing ahead of the retinue of Ethiopia's
ruler . . O~her propaganda charged Masonry with the responsibility for the
assassmatton of Archduke F~rdinand of Austria which incited the world war
and also charged Masonry with the recent failure of the League of Nations in
the matter of the It~lian-Ethiopian war. The utter absurdity of such propaganda .s·?ould be ~mfest to anyone whose reason is not .befogged by religious
or political fanaticism.
Massachusetts (1935):
(Grand L_odgeJ :. Brother ~elvin . M. Johnson, Past Grand Master, gave
an extrem~I~ mterestmg address m which the following interesting information
as to cond1t1ons of Masonry in Europe is found:
. "Maso~ry has ~een suppressed in Italy, Germany and Russia. It is impossible" for d1c:atorsh1ps to . allow Masonry to exist where they rule.
In Spam Masonry 1s not prohibited, but it is not favored. Officers of
the a.r1!1y and navy are not permitted to .be Masons. In Portugal Masonry is
proh1.b1 ted.
'
·

"In Switzerland the fate of Masonry is in doubt. Swiss Masonry is very
respectable but not numerous. Its enemies have .been very active and in a few
months a popular refer~ndum is to be taken on the question of prohibiting
Masonry, Odd Fellowship and similar organizations.
"In France t?ere is a schism in the Grand Orient, the most numerous of
the three Masomc groups there existing. These are the Grand Orient the
Grand. Lodge, and the National Grand Lodge, this last being the on!; one
reco~mzed by us . . To the average French citizen these distinctions mean
nothmg. The enemies of Masonry are very actve. All unpopular movements
and unfortunate occurrences are blamed upon the Masons Th"is · d
·
.
the pub!"
· t b h ·
·
is one m
',, 1c pr'.n s, Y t e c1rcu1atton of handbills, and even large posters.
.
In Belgium and Holland Masonry stands fairly well though not strong
m numbers.
'
"In Sweden, Norway. and Denmark Masonry is very influential. Its numbers are not great, but its personnel is of the highest order. The Kings of
Sweden and Denmark are the Grand Masters. The King of Norway is friendly
~o Masonry, but does not associate himself with it because the Norwegians
ave a theory that the King should have no secrets from his people.
with its two harmonious Grand Lodge s, and m
·
R "In · Czechoslovakia,
·h ·
ou~an1a, . ~1t '.ts new G:~nd Master, Prince Bibesco, Masonry is doing well.
.
S:ond~ttons m the ~ntlsh Isles are too we~! known to call for comment.
The situation may be fairly sumi;ied up .by saymg that Masonry is ncit really
strong. an~ prospero~s anywhere m Europe except in the British Isles and the
Scandinavian countries."

630

631

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THE JOURNEY'S END

Grand Master of Illinois in taking drastic action, which resulted in the
suspension and expulsion of a number of members who took part in this
form of amusement, marks the high water point in the treatment of this
activity.
In a number of cases the glowing promises and the activities of the
paid Promoters operating the campaigns have but added to the objections
to such form of financing. Like other vexing problems, which have arisen
from time to time, the Powers that Be "have landed and have the situation
well in hand.''

This subject is continually before various Grand Lodges, not only as
to the revision of the Ritual but also suggestions as to the manner of its
rendition. The Chairman of the Correspondence Committee of Utah summarizes the matter as follows:
"The Committee (Kentucky) charged with the duty of revising the
funeral ritual, presented its report and a copy of the ritual, which is
printed. The committee stated that .this revision .is 'proposed in order to
make the service more practical and brief, and consequently more desirable.'
As printed, this ritual has the virtue of brevity, at all events.
"The present writer can hark back to a time when a Masonic funeral
service was almost intolerable, on account of its character, its coldnessnot a suggestion of a sympathetic human touch-and the manner in which
its parts were usually rendered by tho~e in charge was excruciating. In
more recent years we have noticed a marked improvement in the rituals
presented. We have also observed a growing tendency to shorten this
Service and to hasten and have it over with as quickly as possible. We
endeavor to keep in mind the fact that we live in the age of the automobile,
the stream-lined train and the air ship, and that the tempo of our movements in general has been greatly accelerated, but it does seem to us that
the demand for haste, for speed, might stop short of the ceremonies in
which we pay our last tribute of respect to the memory of a departed
Brother. Sometimes we almost wonder if we will reach a point where we
will stop long enough
" ' * * * to wrap the draperies of our couch about us,
and lie down to pleasant dreams.'
"We may be in too much of a hurry to pay attention to the 'draperies'
and to the 'couch' but there can be no doubt about our reaching the point
at·which 'life's fitful fever will subside.' "

*

*

*

"The Grand Master of Kentuc'ky discussed the matter of Masonic
funerals and called attention to the fact that often members of the Craft
were not buried by their Brethren, in deference to the wishes of the
families. He remarked on certain features of the Kentucky service-out of
harmony with present-day usage and custom, as possibly being responsible
for the disinclination of families to have a Masonic funeral. One characteristic of not a few Masonic funerals the present writer has attended
was not mentioned by the Grand Master. That is the unfavorable impression left by the manner of rendering the ritual. It doesn't follow that
because a Brother has been elected Master of his Lodge, that he is a fit
person to conduct such aservice. Often, the reading of the ritual is
execrable; given in a monotone; no expression or regard for the sense
of the passages; words mispronounced and generally bungled. It is hardly
occasion for surprise that families should and do avoid such service."
·
THE GHOSTS OF CHANCE
There are two subjects in the Grand Lodge Proceedings, the excerpts
from each of which if set forth at length would embrace all of the pages
of the average Correspondence Report. One of them is the endeavor to
finance propositions by taking advantage of the weakness of the human
individual to take a chance.
Some Grand Lodges have passed drastic legislation which will undoubtedly eliminate the condition complained of. The example of the

Colorado (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Lodge (Illinois) has
the power to determine the qualifications of its members and the conditions
upon which they shall remain members, even to the extent of arbitrarily denying them the privilege of joining other organizations.
Masonry has the right to insist and must insist that these organizations and
their members shall not violate the fundamentals of Masonry and prevent,
through the simple device of assuming another name, the creation of a class of
Masons independent of or superior to the principles, practices, and regulations
of ancient Craft Masonry.
Setting up or promoting a lottery, sale of lottery tickets, or the possession
of them with intent to sell are criminal offenses in Illinois. The use of the
mails and interstate transportation of tickets, literature, and other matters in
aid of lotteries is denied by Federal Law.
The Potentate of the Shrine was advised that the fund-raising campaign
was a lottery and gift enterprise in violation of Federal, State, and Masonic
laws, and requested to discontinue it. The officers and Past Potentates of the
Shrine in meeting assembled "determined that the Grand Lodge ' had no
jurisdiction in the premises and that the Shrine would proceed with the campaign to its conclusion.~· This the Grand Master reports was done, and twelve
of the participants were subsequently therefore tried Masonically, convicted,
and expelled.
Ten of the expelled petitioned for reinstatement and the Grand Master
recommended their restoration to good standing. The representative of the
blanket company neither appeared nor sought reinstatement.
The remaining defendant, according to the Grand Master, persisted in
his contumacy. He was a lawyer and the mover of the resolution of contumacy. His defense was simply denial of the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master recommended his expulsion.
The Committees on Jurisprudence and Appeals and . Grievances sustained
the action and recommendations of the Grand Master, concluding that "the
purposes of discipline had been accomplished."
The Grand Lodge adopted the reports of its committees and their finding
"that this Grand Lodge has full and complete jurisdiction of the matter of said
cause and of the accused."
Result-12 convicted and expelled; 10 of the 12 reinstated on petition; one
expelled with no appeal or · request for reinstatement; one expelled and appeal
denied, still contumacious.
Connecticut (1936):
(Grand Master): In one case which was called to my attention, an electrically lighted square and compass was displayed at night over a booth where
liquor, it was said, was openly sold. In another case, where money had been
raised by various forms of entertainment, a Masonic Charity Association was

PROCEEDINGS . OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF .CALIFORNIA

formed to handle the proceeds. In order that this association might avoid
or evade the Federal Amusement tax, I was asked to rule, "if the checks are
made payable to the Masonic Charity Foundation, will they be acceptable
as part of the Lodge assessments, laid by the Grand Lodge?"
My attention has been called or I have personally been asked to approve
of a game popularly known as "Bingo."
It has lately appeared in the daily press that the game "Bingo" had been
banned in one city on ,the ground that it was a form of gambling and in another
city the matter had been called to the attention of the prosecuting attorney.

tions wholly composed of Freemasons are generally regarded by the public as
Masonic orders. Thus the activities of the members in such organizations must
receive our consideration to the same extent that we consider their activities in
the subordinate Lodges,
"In general Freemasons are loyal to the principles and devoted to the high
standards adopted by our Institution. The few have been unable to absorb our
truths to an extent sufficient to guide them in their daily lives. These few
deserve our special attention as erring brothers who require further instruction.
"Let us therefore approach this problem by seeking the cooperation' of all
brethren in the maintenance of the high standard and integrity of our Institution,·
pointing out dangers to our Fraternity which they may not have realized. In the
first instance seeking their support as Freemasons_ working for a common purpose, but, failing to secure such cooperation and support, let us then deal with
them with all the courage, firmness and power at our command, to the end that.
Freemasonry may forever maintain its high standing in the eyes of. the world."

632

Florida (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Unfortunately, not to say shamefully, the Masonic horizon has been criss-crossed with a variety of question.
able money-raising schemes of late years, not always camouflaged by the seem·
ingly legitimate sale of dance and circus tickets and the like, but by boldly
employing recognized gambling devices.
All this was the result of financial losses and depleted treasuries due to
the back-wash of a wild economic era, and a general let down in ethics
following in the wake of a great World War.
It is generally agreed that all such schemes are un-Masonic and unworthy
the support or countenance of Masons of whatever station or grade. Grand
Masters, without exception, have been outspoken against the practice over
a period of years, condemning, scolding, temporizing, but the year 1936, as
gleaned, from various Proceedings, shows no let-up.
Nor is the practice confined to non-Masonic organizations headed by
Masons, but space in Masonic Temples is reported to have been let for the
operation of recognized gambling devices, with a "take" for the "House."
Grand Masters' Conference (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Under the head of Gambling
Devices and Lotteries the Grand Master quotes from paper from Most W orshipful Grand Master Claude' L. Allen of Massachusetts presented to the Grand
Masters Conference as follows:
"It is a deplorable thought that any Masonic Organization or any organization composed wholly of Freemasons should, for the purpose of raising money,
t,e willing to jeopardize the fair name of our beloved Institution by resorting to
lotteries or games of chance, in violation of the dignity and reputation of Freemasonry.
"What other organization may do is no concern to us as Freemasons. We
have our own landmarks and standards of morality and conduct. Let us not be
swayed by what others may do inconsistent with these high standards and principles. It is not a question of the legality of the various games devised.
"These brethren who believe that they are justified in going ahead with
these schemes if they can bring them within the letter of the law entirely miss
the whole point. They overlook the fact that they may still be guilty of a
Masonic offense when they bring Freemasonry into disrepute, or when their act
reflects upon our good name.
"The test of a Masonic offense is whether the acts of a member are of a
character that tend to reflect upon the good name of our Institution and thus
bring Freemasonry into disrepute.
"There would seem to be no doubt as to the power of the Grand Lodge to
determine the qualifications of its members even to 'the extent of arbitrarily
denying to them the privileges of joining certain other organizations. Organiza-

633

Kentucky (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Raffling is gambling,-a Masonic
offense. Any violation of the laws of God or of the state, involving moral turpitude, is a violation of Masonic law. Raffling is .gambling; gambling is a violation of the moral law and the laws of the state, and is therefore a Masonic
offense. The· use of gambling devices of any nature, such as raffles, lotteries,
punchboards, paddle wheels, spinning jenneys, and games of chance of whatsoever nature, for the raising of funds for charitable or other purposes, in
connection with circuses, carnivals, theatricals, musicals, birs, bazaars, games,
shows~ or entertainments of any description, whether held or operated under the
auspices of any Lodge of Free and Accepted ' Masons itself, or any of its auxiliary · organizations, such as clubs, band, drill team, drum or bugle· corps, .
orchestra, glee clubs, etc., also the giving away of chances on prizes whether
attached to admission tickets for such affairs, or otherwise, shall be strictly
prohibited.
Ohio (1936):
(Grand Master): As a future safeguar:d against the recurrence of gam•
bling in this jurisdiction, may I suggest to the Jurisprudence Committee the
adoption of the following change: The Grand Master of the Grand Lodge shall
have the power to suspend from all the rights and privileges of Masonry until
the next Annual Grand Communication the presiding officer, or others that may
be a party thereto, of organizations basing membership on Masonic affiliati?111
who persist in promoting lotteries, games of chance, and raffles of ·every kind·,
and character, after having been duly advised of our prohibitory regulations.
In medicine it is necessary for the physician to use two types of remedies
one for palliation, the other for cure. This palliative suspension of the presiding
officer of such organizations would certainly result in a curative effect.
The Grand Lodge adopted his recommendation.
Oregon (1936):
(Grand Master): Twice during the year has my approval been asked for
the conducting of a lottery to provide funds necessary to finance certain schemes
of a Lodge or member of allied bodies. By allied bodies I mean who~e membership is composed wholly of Masons. In both cases I refused to approve sµch
schemes, and I trust that the time will never come when Masonic Lodge·St .or.
bodies composed of Masons find it necessary to violate either the Statute or.
Masonic law to obtain the necessary funds to carry on.

634

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

South Dakota (1935):
(Grand ,Master): Among the decisions passed upon by the ·Grand Master
was one with reference to lotteries. A Lodge proposed to give a dance, selling
tickets carrying a chance to win certain prizes, and the question put to the
Grand Master was, "Will this plan violate the Grand Lodge by-laws?" To
which the Grand Master replied: "It is perfectly legitimate for your Lodge to
sell tickets, but the matter of offering prizes cannot be endorsed by the Grand
Lodge."
Tennessee (1936):
(Grand Master): "Any club, association, organization, or society, composed
c,f Masons, which permits or encourages gambling, raffling, or any other immoral practice, is hereby declared an offense to good morals, and the character
of such organization may be established by reputation. Its members are subject
to trial for un-Masonic ci:mduct, and the Grand Master, by virtue of his office,
is empowered to dissolve and abate any such organization."
Texas (1935):
(Grand Master): "During the year I have been solicited, importuned, canvassed and cajoled by various and sundry individuals-some Masons and some
non-Masons-for the privilege of using the name and sanction of The Grand
Lodge of Texas in connection with promoting various sorts of advertising
schemes, lotteries, etc., during the Centennial which all Texans are preparing to
celebrate during the year 1936. The alluring 'bait' held out by this gentry was
usually such as an offer of 25% of the gross receipts of these schemes to be
donated to our Grand Charity fund, or to our Home and School-they to bear
all expenses, etc., and all they asked of us was the use of the good name of
Masonry, and permission to advertise the fact that their scheme was sanctioned
by The Grand Lodge of Texas. Needless to state that I refused any and all such
requests in no uncertain terms-in fact, I sometimes found it a little difficult to
comport myself with the dignity and restraint incumbent upon the Grand Master
in dismissing some of the more persistent solicitors."
Texas (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): But how is this for a record,
presented by Grand Master (Michigan) under "GAMBLING"?
"It is necessary that the settled law of this Grand Jurisdiction on the question of gambling should be stated, because some of our Lodges have advertised
lotteries, feather parties, punch boards, fairs, circuses, bazaars, raffling matches,
etc., for the purpose of raising money for Lodge purposes. Masonic Temple
associations have rented rooms for the purpose of permitting other organizations to conduct gambling games in the Temple."
Having quoted the law prohibiting gambling, he continues:
.
"The Committee on Appeals in a report in 1924 said: 'In our opinion, it is
Just as wrong for a Mason to gamble under the auspices of an organization
made up solely of Masons as it is to gamble under the auspices of a Masonic
Lodge.'
"Another flagrant incident of gambling came to light this year. A Masonic
Temple Association prepared a room for gambling, in which they maintained a
large munber of slot machines using different denominations of coins. They also
provided tables to be used for gambling with cards, for the use of which tables
they took a certain percentage of the money at stake. The officers of this Temple
Association boasted of the fact that they had an understanding with the prose-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

635

cuting attorney and the chief of police that so long as they allowed only Masons
to play, (italic ours) the place would not be raided."
Now the Grand Master comments:
"This is the most disgraceful conduct which has ever come to my attention
. Yet the Masters of the Lodges occupying this Temple not only permitted
the conditions to exist but profited by the ill-gotten gains of the gambling room."
Just too bad! But what about the responsibility of a Grand Master who
knows of and reports such conduct with never a word of Masonic discipline
having been applied. Oh, it is related that:
"I have been advised by the Secretary of the Temple Association that all
forms of gambling have now been removed from the Temple;"
and it is suggested that:
"In case of its revival, there should be some trials for un-Masonic conduct
on the part of Masons connected with the practice.''
We beg to be pardoned for the saying that this record would be much more
in keeping with Masonic teaching, practice and tradition, did it relate there were
"Charters lifted and trials for un-Masonic conduct had."
This record is that presented by the Grand Master himself. It reaches us
under cover of Grand Lodge Jurisdictions of this country, and without comment
therefrom, hence our restrained comment.
Wisconsin (1936):
(Grand Master): On March 2 my attention was called to the fact that
Zor Temple at Madison had adopted a money raising campaign involving certain lottery features which have been strongly disapproved in a number of
jurisdictions. I communicated with the national headquarters of the Shrine and
when the officers of Zor Temple were informed of the illegal nature of the
. undertaking, they promptly called the undertaking off and took steps to undo
what had been done. I wish to commend the officers of Zor for their evident
regard for their obligations as Master Masons and for their cheerful obedience
to constituted authority:
I should add that Tripoli Temple had been approached by the promoters
of the lottery, but before proceeding took the precaution to ascertain the attitude
of the Grand Master. When informed that he disapproved they promptly abandoned the idea.
Wisconsin Shriners have proved themselves good Masons, yet there is no
denying that the Shrine in some states is not reflecting credit upon the Craft.
The non-Mason regards the institution as an integral part of Freemasonry.
When thoughtless fez-bedecked brethren, many of whom have no interest whatjurisdictions. I communicated with the national headquarters of the Shrine and
. ever in Masonry, conduct themselves in public in a manner that creates a
mistaken notion of what Freemasonry really is, it becomes the concern of the
Craft. Imperial officers of the Shrine are constantly reminding their members
that they are first of all Master Masons and should not permit the conviviality,
which is so easily stimulated by so simple a thing as a red fez, to carry them
away; but anyone who has ever attended an imperial council session knows what
happens.
There is no trace of true Freemasonry in the Shrine. It is as foreign to
Masonry as any of the dozens of fraternities that men love to join and which
try to promote fellowship and mutual help, but so long as its membership is
made up exclusively of Masons, it must expect to conform to Masonic law and
principles.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

636

SEATS OF THE MIGHTY
As an introduction to this topic we are again publishing the remarks
of a Past Grand Master made before the Grand Lodge of a sister Jurisdiction:
"The Grand Master puts on his stove-pipe hat, literally and sometimes
figt_Jratively .a~ well,. and reads his report. What does it include? Dispen' satlons: dec1s1ons, nine-tenths of which are unnecessary; discipline, necrol,ogy, with fulsome eulogy of dead Brethren, a great deal of it undeserved
~ccompanied with the ~orld'~ worst poetry. I have heard more bad poetr;
. in M.asonry, and especially in Grand Lodge, than in all other places put
together. If that sort of poetry is read over my body I'll haunt the man
who does it. Then the Grand Master goes on to the' State of the Craft
statistics, new Lodges established, and so on, and finally winds up with ~
grand burst of eloquence. After that the distinguished visitors are introduced, and they arise and strut. I have seen some who could sit down and
strut . . They extend compliments, and say usually nothing net.
•
· 1 '~hen the committees report-on Ritual, finance, appeals, etc. The
Superintendent of the Home asks for a little more money; new officers
are el~cted: appear to be very much surprised and get up and make the
SaII1e ,~_de11tic~l ~peech _that they have been making for the last hundred and
fifty years: ~1th the help of. you Brethren and your cooperation I will
endeavo~ to discharge the duties of my office to the best of my ability.'
Meanwhile . the Past Grand Masters sit all ready to pounce on anything
new and alive; and everybody has a grand time fraternizing and eating big
meals at the expense of somebody else."
Too often this is actually what the Chairman of a Committee on
Correspondence finds in his work.
Florida (1936):
(Chai~cm ~orrespondence ~ommittee): Many times, during the Grand
Lod~e sessions, . 1mpo~tant questions that should be given more mature and
con~:derate cons:?erahon are put. over by what is known in po1itical parlance
as steam-roller ~ethods, but m Grand Lodge, "desultory" would be the

better word. Not mfrequently the delegates out there in the audience are in
more or less of a daze under the spell of some high-,pressure speaker and the
~ost of them d.o. not vote at all when the question is put, not folly understandmg the propos1hon.
Some such conditions must have existed during the session of Michigan's
Gr~d Lodge_ under review. Along toward the close of the session, after
;puttmg a motion, the Grand Master did not declare the result, but said, "Well,
. ~rothe~s, there are not a quarter of you voting." And after some further
1
d1scuss1on the Gra~. Master called fo~ a rising vote and the prnposition was
.lost. . Other pr_oP?s1t1ons too, we anticipate, would have been lost had the
Grand Master ms1sted upon a full vote sooner.
Michigan (1937):
(Grand Master):. Grand Lodge has an interest in a great number of
estates. These interests are scatter~d all over the State. The cases are
pending in the Probate Court of different counties. In some cases the admin-<:. istrator of the estate has not made a report for several years. A reference
t<;> the . ~eport of the Auditors will show that Grand Lodge has lost very
substantial sums of money on certain mortgages. There have been losses in
the sale of real estate and on bonds. No Grand Master has the time to look
after the ,property we own outright, or the estates in Probate Courts. We

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

637

have lost during the past year more money than would have been necessary to
pay the salary of a man to look after the real estate and personal property
owned by this Grand Lodge. To attempt to handle it through real-estate
dealers as at present is not satisfactory, and is expensive. I recommend that
provision be made for the employment of a competent man to take charge
of Grand Lodge property interests. He can be placed either under the direction of the Grand Secretary or the Masonic Home Board.
Montana (1936):
(Grand Lodge): Be It Resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge
that subordinate Lodges be urged to send the Secretaries of their respective
Lodges to attend Grand Lodge sessions, · each Secretary attending to receive
from his Lodge per diem and expenses at the rate paid by the Grand Lodge to
its other attending members; provided, however, that any Mast~r or Warden
who is unable to attend may, if he wishes, grant his proxy to the Secretary
of his Lodge, the Secretary in such event to receive per diem and expenses
form the Grand Lodge. (Action postponed one year.)
New Hampshire (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master (Alberta)
generalized some Lodge faults, all intended to be a helpful statement.
Possibly the Grand Master thought that the Grand Lodge ought to have
something to do. At any rate he submitted sixteen recommendations, reducing
the possibilities by so much for his successors.
New York (1936):
(Grand Master): The organized charities of Grand Lodge, in their extent
and quality, have not been as well known to the rank and file of our membership as their merit deserved. To bring home to our members a due appreciation
of the great charitable work Grand Lodge is doing, and as a ~eans of inviting
their interest in and support of that work, the Committee on Fiduciary Relations
was set up. One of the duties of this Committee is to spread knowledge of our
works of charity in the hope that the need for the peculiar service we are
rendering and the quality and efficiency of that service becoming known, our
charities will be made objects of the solicitude and bounty of those charitably
disposed souls seeking to do good with their money by gifts testamentary
or otherwise.
Rhode Island (1936):
(Grand Lodge): Each Master and Warden has been presented with a copy
of "The Master's Book" by Carl Claudy, which included a brief history of
Freemasonry in Rhode Island. These bociks are the property of Grand Lodge
and the one held by the Master is to be transferred at each Annual Communication upon his retirement from office to the newly elected Junior Warden.
South Carolina (1937): ·
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Master Hooper (Virginia)
finds a most serious defect in conducting the affairs of Grand Lodge in the
failure of the officers of subordinate Lodges to answer communications. He adds :
"If it be true, as the colored preacher said, that procrastination is the chief doctrine of the Presbyterian Church, then there are far more Presbyterians in the
Lodges of Virginia than one would have thought." We might safely add, as
conveying some consolation, that we fear others than Presbyterians also have
this sin as one of their chief doctrines.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. 638

639

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

VISIONS OF SERVICE
Western Australia (1935):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Whatever else depression has
brought to ?- standstill, it has left alone the American Masonic urge for legislation. In consequence, Masonic law-making flourishes without need for an
impetus from President Roosevelt's "New Deal." What with Grand Masters'
recommendations, committees which admiringly. approve, other committees
which lick recommendations or amateurish (in a legal sense) resolutions into
scientifically legal shape-the said shape often taking the form of a verbal
Niagara, to say nothing of Lodges suggesting laws which they can scarcely
recognize as their offspring after the law committees have exercised their
artistry what time they have not "slaughtered the innocents,''-it would seem
that the words "and laws" should be inserted in a certain well-known passage
in Ecclesiastes, which would then read, "of making of books and laws there
is no end." Not long ago, the reviewer read of a Grand Lodge which passed a
law. Soon .afterwards, it did some more passing with the avowed object
of "clarifying" the law. And only recently, it has added to its achievements
by "clarifying" the clarification. It is conceivable that this last act may not
banish the Tyrrhenian darkness and that the Masonic isinglass will be used
to "re-clarify" the clarification, and so on, ad infinitum, until there will be a
re-re-re-reclarification, that will look like an attack of stammering or hiccoughs. And one may yet wonder whether Masonic legislation may not in fifty
years time reach such a size that Lord Halsbury's monumental work on the
statute law of England (22 volumes) will be comparable only as a needle is
to an anchor.
Western Australia (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Who has not heard of that inventive and tyrannical old-time ruler Procrustes ?-'he who designed an iron
bed and also a rule that all who slept in it must be adapted to its length.
If the unfortunate were too long, his legs were cut to standard; if he was too
short, his legs were stretched. And all this regardless of torture, pain, and
indignity. The Kansas budget committee invented a Procrustean series of
victims· out of by-laws, in presenting its budget. "Wherever there is a conflict
between these appropriations and the by-laws,'' said the committee, "we recommend that the by-laws be amended to conform to the amount appropriated."
And Grand Lodge answered and said, "Yea."
West Virginia (1935):
(Grand Lodge): In order to protect itself against irregular or clandestine
organizations the Grand Master and Grand Secretary applied for and obtained registration in the office of the Secretary of State of West Virginia, of
the Emblem and Seal of the Grand Lodge; whereby no other person, firm,
association or cor.poration has the right to use said emblem, either in the
identical form or in any such near resemblance thereto as may be calculated
to deceive.
Wisconsin (1935):
(Grand Master): We had heard but one criticism of the Round Table
meetings in the past, that there were too many set speeches, and consequently
that there was not enough opportunity for discussion from the floor. We
accordingly eliminated any attempt for consideration, and are pleased to report
that as a consequence the discussion was much more free, entered into by many
of the Masters and Wardens present, and the conference really acted as a
ciearing house for the best ideas worked out by the different Lodges in the
state on the problems discussed.

We believe if the elective officers of a Grand Lodge could perhaps
borrow a leaf from the history of Russia and devise a continuous program
for five years, which would embody not only that outlined by the Gran~
Lodge but also their individual ideas for the advancement of the Craft, 1t
would in time produce beneficial results.
Every Grand Lodge Officer who in time ma! become the. Grand
Master has certain ideas or plans which he would hke to see carried to a
succes;ful conclusion. If through agreement, education along that line
could be continued during the time he was in line, when in a position to have
the same adopted there would be less lost motion and a better understanding of his program. If Masonry is to assume an active part in such spheres
as its Laws and Regulations allow, it can only be successful by continued
activity.
Connecticut (1936):
(Chairman Corresponrience Committee): Grand. Secr"etaries hav~ ~any and
varied duties have words of praise and blame applied to them but 1t 1s a new
one for our' tribe to be labeled as Brother Anderson with the title "Shock
Absorber." We take it to be a compliment.
Florida (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Just why Grand L?dge officers
should be looked upon with more or less awe by the Brother m the ranks
is not easily understood, but nevertheless is true to an extent.
Grand Master Heiligman (Pennsylvania) recognizes it, and said, "I used
my utmost endeavors to break down· the formal official barriers which are too
often existing between Grand Officers and the Brethren." ·
Florida (1937):
(Grand Master): There has grown ~P around ~he office of G;a~d M~ster
an artificial halo which tends to isolate him from his fellows. This 1s entirely
unjustified, . as Grand Masters are just folks and ask _no g~eater privilege than
to meet their fellows on a common level and fraternize with them as they do
with each other.
Idaho (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Years ago we sometimes heard
it said that Grand Lodge -is a debating society for Past Grand Masters. That
was certainly not true this year ...• Nothing pleases us more than to see a new
r.1ember rise· to express his views or defend his position. Why should he not
do so? It is his Grand Lodge as well as yours and mine.
Maine (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The State of Maine, alt?ough one
oi the smallest states in the Union, less than half as large as Arizona, and
with a comparatively small population, has nevertheless always been one of
the strongholds of Masonry with a very large pro.portion of Masons to the
total population. There were a year ago, when their last proceedings were
published, 207 active Lodges with a total 1?1-e~~ership _of 39,001. \here are
twenty-six Deputy Grand Masters and also, 1t 1s mterestmg to note, six Grand
Chaplains. (Perhaps they need them!)
We hasten to assure Bro. Henning that the names of these Grand Chaplains
. are more ornamental than otherwise, and as to the "need" of six, well-maybe

641

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

there are a few of the brethren that would need that number to get them anywhere in sight of pearly gates or golden slippers.

North Dakota (1935):
(Chairmaii Correspondence Committee): Oklahoma provides its Grand
Master with an automobile in which to travel on official business. This year the
C.rand Master reported that she was still a darn good car and suggested that it
be turned over to his successor, thus saving the price of a new one. Again,
hi. recommendation was disregarded but we do not imagine that he felt badly
about it, as the Grand Lodge voted to present the car to him as a gift.

640

1?faryland (1936):
(Grand Lodge): Attention is directed to a condition that exists at the preseflt time, of which a number of the Brethren are aware but give the matter
little thought, and that is, there are a number of distinguished visitors from
other Grand Jurisdictions that visit our Temple, and it usually falls to the lot
of our Grand Secretary to entertain them in the absence of our Grand Master,
and in a great many instances during his presence, and there is no provision
'
made by this Grand Lodge for such entertainment."
Again, there are a great number of visitations made by our Grand Lodge
Officers to the various Lodges throughout the Jurisdiction, on which journeys
the several Officers use their own conveyances, which entails an individual
expense. Some owners can afford the same and some cannot.
In order to provide a fund to take care of the above-mentioned conditions,
the following resolution is herewith offered:
"That a sum of Five Hundred ($500) Dollars, or as much thereof as may
be necessary, be set aside for the use of the Grand Secretary in the entertaining
of distinguished visitors and for the payment of transportation costs as may be
incurred by the Officers of the Grand Lodge on official visitations."
('This recommendation was rejected.)
Massachusetts (1936):
(Grand Lodge): Iii. recognition of 21 years of outstanding and. devoted
service Grand Secretary Frederick W. Hamilton was promoted to the rank of
Honorary Past Grand Master. Although provisioQ is made for such recognition in the constitution of England, Scotland and Ireland, it is unusual in the
United States.
Montana (1935):
(Grand Master): I did the best I could and nobody held back, but the
power behind the throne, in front of the throne and all around the throne
was the Grand Secretary. I thank you.
Nebraska (1936):
(Grand Master f: The Conference of Grand Secretaries was really more
instructive than the Conference of Grand Masters. There is very good reason
for this.
Learning and wisdom come with years of experience, which Grand Secretaries possess to a much greater degree than would be possible for any Grand
Master in the one or two or three years of his official service to the Fraternity.
North Carolina (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Iowa Grand Lodge does not
elect its officers as the most of the others do-there is no complaining about a
Grand Master appointing his successor, nor is there any about the long time
that a Grand Master has to serve in lower offices before he comes to preside.
For in Iowa, the Grand Master is elected from the floor and there is no "line"
of any sort. The Grand Treasurer does not succeed himself-in fact, the only
officer whose name i.s in both the list for 1935 and the list for 1936, is Grand
Secretary Charles Clyde Hunt. They don't 'believe in changing Grand Secretaries often-they get a good one, one who is too good to mess around in Masonic
politics, and they keep him.

North Dakota (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It has been our observation that
many Grand Masters in the southern states have been prone to report every ·
item of advice or information to Lodges under the head of decisions and our
hat is off to Grand Master Moore (Alabama), who reports that there are no
decisions worth reporting.
Nova Scotia (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We do not wish to be critical but
we should like to suggest that in the list of Grand Lodges and Grand Secretaries
the heading "British Colonies" be changed to "British Empire"; and that for
"Canada", "Canada in Ontario" be substituted. The Grand Lodge of Canada is
a misnomer, most objectionable to most other Canadian Grand Lodges. Hope
you understand.
Ohio (1936):
(Grand Master :) The Conference of Grand Masters reminded me very
much of some of our national medical meetings. It was really a clinic for
diagnosis and treatment. I was particularly attracted to the unity of opinion
rtgarding some of the problems that were presented; yet they were all discussed
without malice of forethought but in a fine spirit that is typical of a Brother
who has been raised to the highest office of Grand Master in his respective
state.
Oregon (1936):
(Grand Master) : One is impressed with this fact, that the Grand Master
c·f South Carolina was interested in results, the most good to the greatest
number, and did or would not show hesitancy in slitting the throat and tossing
overboard Old Man Precedent, or Old Man Custom should they be in the
way. To all of which we chant, "Amen."

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

(Cha4rman Correspondence Committee): The Dep~ty Grand Master in
presenting the Past Grand Masters to the East, said, "One who has not yet
been born, presents those who are dead." Maybe he spoke the truth, we do
not know, but as a corpse some of them were quite animated, judging from
their activities during the year as recorded in the Proceedings.
(Chairman Correspondeiicc Committee): Filled with brotherly love and
affection and recognizing the worth of the service rendered by ~e Grand
Secretary (Wyoming) for many years, the Grand Master felt that the time
was ripe to bestow on the Grand Secretary some reward. He accordingly
recommended that the title of Past Grand Master be conferred on him. But
again to the fore came the Jurisprudence Committee and, well what is the
use of me writing it, everybody who ever attended a Session of a Grand Lodge
knows how hidebound the avera,g e Jurisprudence Committee can be and is.

642

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Utah (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): This Grand Lodge (Minnesota)
has made provision for a new service, namely, that of a contact man, known
as the Grand Master's Representative, who is appointed by the Grand Master
for one year. His duties? They are manifold. He dealt with varied and difficult
problems and situations. He investigated certain cases of relief; visited Lodges
in which controversial matters were disturbing the peace and harmony of such
Lodges, growing out of questions of Jurisdictions, unmasonic conduct, irregular
ballots and liquor stores. He visited Lodges which had no representative in
Grand Lodge to ascertain the reason for this omission; he investigated cases
that were to come up . for trial and was chairman of the Trial Commission.
These, and much besides, were included in his work.
'

*

*

*

*

(Grand Secretary): In the preparation of the Reports on Fraternal Correspondence for this Grand Lodge I have occasionally met with rather sneering
references to the attendance of Grand Lodge officers at those meetings (Grand
Master and Grand Secretaries' Conferences), characterizing such attendance as
"junkets." Now, that word "junket" has a significance which is about as savory
as the word "politics," or "politicians." Indeed, they not infrequently appear
together in print as a pair of misbegotten twins.
Observation and experience have convinced me that no Mason worthy of
the honor attaching to the position of Grand Master-and who has attended
any of those meetings-or to that of Grand Secretary, will think or speak of
the Brethren with whom he associates there for three days as being off on a
"Junket"! The Masons who annually gather in the nation's Capital for those
February meetings are drawn from all parts of the country; they are men who
have the confidence and esteem of the Craft in their respective Jurisdictions;
not a few of them are men of exceptional ability, and are recognized, nationally,
as leaders in Masonic thought and activities. They go there for a definite
purpose, and the character of the addresses, papers and discussions given place
on the programs indicate that they are not there on a "junket," and should leave
no ground for carping criticism.
Your Grand Secretary has no words with which, adequately to express his
appreciation of the privilege of attending those meetings and associating with
such men as are to be tnet with there.
Having said so much it occurred to me that I had opened wide the door
for the charge of ulterior motives. If that be so-so be it!
Wisconsin (1937):
(Chairman Corresp<»Jdence Committee) : The Grand Master of New Jersey
appointed six Grand Chaplains, and with the prayers of all of these Saintly
Brethren we are satisfied that New ] ersey will be well taken care of in a
spiritual way. We have but one Grand Chaplain in Wisconsin which, perhaps,
accounts for some of our shortcomings.

*

*

*

*

(Grand Master): As a subordinate officer of this Grand Lodge, I was
forced time and again to admit to myself my entire uselessness to the Craft.
I could not answer simple questions relative to the current policies of the
Fraternity, nor enlighten inquiring Brethren concerning Grand Lodge activities.
I was uninformed ahd had to keep still and look wise. My chief and almost only
duty was to take part in the opening and closing of the Grand Lodge. I know
the officers during my term must have felt quite the same as I did.
Would it not be a commendable practice to have regular meetings of
Grand Lodge officers from time to time, at which meetings matters of import-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

643

ance to the Craft could be discussed informally?-meetings at which the Grand
Master could inform those in lower offices of his hopes and ambitions, and
instruct them to carry his messages personally to the subordinate Lodges he
designated.
This policy would tend to make a closer and more democratic relationship
between the subordinate Lodges and the Grand Lodge. It would train the officers
as they progressed through the chairs, and allo·w the Masons of the State to
becoll!e personally acquainted with the men whom they were elevating to high
offices.
I recommend that quarterly meetings of the Line Officers of the Grand
Lodge be held to discuss the problems of the Craft and that provisions to meet
the expense of such meetings be made in the budget.

SEEK AND YE SHALL FIND
If the various orations and historical papers published in the Grand
Lodge Proceedings from time to time could be collected and published,
they would form a valuable contribution to Masonic literature and be
available for Masonic education.
In our previous reports we have listed some of these with the hope
that perhaps they may prove of value to those interested. In the Proceedings reviewed, and covered by this Report, we find the following well
worth reading:

Masonry's Attitude to Government........................ Arkansas (1936)
63
Masonry in Yukon Territory.................................... British Columbia (1936)
Masonry Seventy-five Years Ago ............................ Colorado (1936)
52
History of Extinct Lodges..•,...........:......................._Connecticut (1937)
91
Masonry in District of Columbia............................ Dist. of Columbia (1936) 6
The Constitution.................................,........................ Florida '(1937)
108
Masonry in U. S. Constitution.................................. Florida (1936)
Foreword and Afterword .......................................... Iowa (1933 and 1934)
Masonic Literature Prior to 1750...:........................ Iowa (1936)
100
Annual Oration............................................................ Kan-sas (1936)
69
Masonry's Challenge Today..................................•..• Kentucky (1936)
214
An Ancient Landmark............................,................... Maine (1936)
243
Freemasonry in Canada.............................................. Manitoba (1935)
Annual Oration.................,.......................................... Minnesota (1937)
107
Our Foreign Relatives........•....................................... Missouri (1936)
206
Uniform Lodge Room................................................ Mississippi (1937)
99
Masons of the F11ture..............
Nebraska (1937)
393
Lodges in China...................:.,......- ...................-•.......... New York (1936)
143
Freemasonry of Western Reserve ............................ Ohio (1936)
178
Lafayette and his Masonic Contacts...................... Ohio (1934)
Freemasonry .......................................•........................Oklahoma (1937)
196
Dreaming and Doing.................................................. Oregon (1936)
35
Pennsylvania Masonry 1761-1786............................ Pennsylvania (1936)
49
Grand Chaplain's Address ............................:........... Quebec (1936)
48
Annual Oration...............•.......- ......:...•.................•...... Texas (1936)
222
Fight for Masonic Security........................................ Utah (1937)
61
Grand Lodge Seals...................................................... Washington (1936)
The Morgan Mystery.................................................. Wyoming (1936)
351
Henry Price..................................:.......................,....... Massach.usetts (1936) 280
Ancient Landmarks....................................................South Australia (1936) 46
¥ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .: -•••••••••

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

644

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Annual Oration......._................................................... North Carolina (1937) 60
Grand Lodge Library........·-······················-·····-······Iowa (1936)
149
Freemason as a Citizen...........................,.........•.....:_Indiana (1937)
4
Freemasonry in Mexico................................•......•.... North Carolina (1937) 192
Annual Oration....,•............................................_ ....... North Carolina (1937) 60
The Great Transition................................- .....~........ Washington (1937)
91
The Army of Crime-····-··-··:·············-·-··················· Washington ( 1937)
139
Masonic Foundations........................................- ........ South Carolina (1937) 28
Symbolic Masonry........•..........·-··························-·-·South Carolina (1937) 87
A LITTLE NONSENSE NOW AND THEN IS RELISHED BY THE
WISEST MEN
. To show that the Proceedings reviewed by the Correspondence Committee are not entirely devoid of humor, we give some gems of thought
culled from speeches, Correspondence Reports and remarks at social functions of the Craft contained therein. Whlie some may have evoluted from
Artemus Ward's time, they may perhaps break the monotony of a Report
of this character.
I will tell you a little story about a joint convention they had of the Grand
Army 9f the Republic and the Confederate Veterans, down at Richmond, I
believe. Both of the former enemies moved in some strength on that conven.tion.
Everything was going along nicely. There was a Confederate soldier who had
lost both arms, had one eye out, and had lost one leg, who was sitting there.
He was not exactly begging. He had his little tray handy and people did drop
in money as they passed. One particular Union man had done well in the world,
and he gave the old soldier a dollar. During the noontime they had served a
little wine, and as he passed he dropped five dollars into the tray. The man
thanked him again. That evening after a very fine dinner he gave him a
twenty dollar bill. The ex-rebel looked up and said, "I truly appreciate that.
It shows how fine and how forgiving those of you we formerly fought with
are." The Union man said, "Don't get me wrong. I am giving you all this
because you are the first rebel I ever saw that was trimmed up just to suit me."

*

*

*

*

*

*

One fellow present had had three or four drinks and got up and protested,
saying, "I don't want any temporary organization; I want a permanent one."
The politician who had called the meeting to order, insisted: "Sit down." "No
I am not going to sit down. I don't want a temporary organization. I want ~
permanent one." Thus he continued to protest, until finally the presiding officer
said to him, "You don't even know, in your present condition, the difference
between temporary and permanent." "Oh, yes, I do," came back the answer. "I'm
drunk. That's temporary. You are a damn fool. That's permanent."
They have been passing out another story on Noah in my section of the
country. It is said that, on one occasion Mrs. Webster came home unexpectedly and caught Noah in the act of kissing the maid. He was fond of the
ladies, apparently, just like some of the rest of us. She set her arms akimbo
and giving him a hard look, addressed him: "Why, Noah, I am surprised." He'
and lexicographer-like not forgetting the fine distinctions between words, replied
very gently : "No, my dear. You are astonished. I am surprised."

*

*

*

A keeper at the penitentiary was showing a kind lady about. She stopped
to talk for a long time with one of the prisoners. Catching up with the keeper

645

she said, "Do you know, Mr. Finnegan, I believe ~ere i~ a g;e~t deal of good
in that man." To which Pat replied, " Indade there 1s, Ma am. Tis not that, that
he was sint up for."

*

*

*

"An Irish woman who was returning from morning mass with her children
and knowing that she had to get dinner when she got home, was accosted by a
neighbor who remarked:
"'That was a wonderful sermon that the priest preached today about
matrimony.'
'.'The woman replied :
" 'Well, begorra, I wish I knew as little about matrimony as that young
priest does'.''

*

*

*

A candidate whose given name was Amos was being passed to the degree
of Fellowcraft. During the perambulation about the Lodge room, the Master
was reciting the 2nd verse, 8th chapter of Amos: "And the Lord said unto me:
'Amos what seest thou'." At this juncture the candidate stopped the march,
facing ' the east, said: "I don't see a durn th'mg."

*

*

*

*

*

*

Our time is limited, and I shall bear in mind what President. ~adl~y of
Yale once said. In chapel one Sunday morning there was a d1stmgmshed
preacher who came to occupy the pulpit, and as he looked at that sea of faces
of young men coming in there, he was pepped up as he,, had n_ever been befo~e,
and said to President Hadley, "How long can I preach? President Hadley said,
"You may preach just as long as you wish, but no souls are saved here after
twenty minutes."

I recall an occasion that Judge Hei!igman, of Pennsylvania, to!d about,
when a lawyer was arguing before him at considerable length. Finally he
said to the Judge, "I hate to trespass upon your ti~e," and the Judge sai~,
"My young friend, it is all right to trespass upon my time, but when you begm
to trespa~s upon eternity, it is a little too much.''

•

*

*

A great crowd was gathered at the station to see and.hear _him. He .spoke
for about fifteen minutes in very sonorous tones, extolling his own virtues,
and then the train moved on. Two darkeys, leaning against a telegraph pole
rather lazily, were watching the whole proceedings. After the. crowd had
dispersed, one of them (still leaning against the pole), turned his head very
lazily in the direction of the other and asked, "Who am dat man, and whar am
ht- from?"
The other turned his head 1 just as lazily and just as indifferently, and
replied "Who am dat man and whar am he from? I don't know who he am
or wh~r he's from, but, w'hoever he am, and wharever he's from, he sho' do
recommend hisself most hig-hly."
THE CUP THAT CHEERS
On a par with the amount of space occ~pied in P:oceed~s of various
Grand Lodges in connection with Gambling is the subJect of ~1quor. Laws
designed to regulate it follow about the same course as National, State or
Municipal legislation. One hundred laws are passed, and then ten thousand
decisions are necessary to clarify them.
The prohibitions are justified from a m~r~l~ legal or Maso~c . a~gle.
Only the users are omitted from these proh1b1t1ons. Some Jurisdictions

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

646

647

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

have left the matter entirely to the good judgment of the individual Lodge.
Whether or not in the long run this will be a better solution of the
question only time and experience can tell.
District of Columbia (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : A number of rulings on the liquor
question appeared to be somewhat severe. The manager of a hotel which sold
liquor, an engineer in a brewery, the chief accountant in a grocery store which
sold beer, the foreman of a fruit and grocery company which sold beer, were
all barred. Also a man whose wife had a gasoline station and grocery store,
and who helped her with the business on Saturdays, which included the sale of
liquor, was barred from making application, because, said the Grand Master,
"even though the most of his time was spent elsewhere he was engaged in
the distribution of liquor'." In another case a young man whose father's drug
store was a depository for the state liquor board, and where the young man
worked, was refused admission. Nobody has got down to it yet, but if this
things keeps up we may soon find that to watch a brewery truck unload will be
considered a Masonic offense. ·
One Grand Master ruled that so long as the sale of liquor did not violate
any Federal or state law, persons engaged in the liquor business might petition
for the degrees, which is by far the most liberal dictum recorded in this
connection.
Grand Masters' Conference (1935):
Brother Yeo attended the Grand Master's Conference at Washington, D. C.,
in February, 1935, and was hoqored by selection to discuss problems arising
from the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment. The paper which he there
presented he reproduces in his address; a capable review of a situation to which
many Grand Lodges are now compelled to give serious attention. Indiana prohibits the conferring of the degrees upon anyone who is in the habit of becoming
intoxicated or who makes it his business to manufacture or se11 intoxicating
liquors. The so-ca11ed respectable system of conducting the liquor business is
bringing many problems; for example, the drug and grocery clerk handling
the legal liquor in sealed packages. Indiana has held that the principal vocation
rather than the occasional duty should determine the petitioner's eligibility
under the law quoted above. Indiana has another regulation making the use of
intoxicating liquor as a beverage or the manufacture and sale of intoxicating
liquor to be used as a beverage a Masonic offense. Grand Master Yeo points
out that Masonry is tolerant,that it does not presume to dictate what its members may eat or drink, but that it does demand decency and tespectability in
the conduct of those who are under its jurisdiction. A broad clear-cut statement that will stand. He views these questions and problems from one
hypothesis only-Freemasonry is a strictly moral Institution. It is not within
the power of any legislative body to legalize that which is morally wrong.
Illinois (1936):
(Grand Master): The Grand Master (Nebraska) expressed the opm1on
that a Mason might not do indirectly what the law prohibited him from doing
directly and he therefore rendered several decisions holding that the law forbidding Masons from engaging in the manufacture or sale of intoxicating
liquors, including beer and wine, was binding not only upon the individual
engaged in such business but also to members of partnerships, the managers
or directors of corporations, to members of clubs, but not to minority stockholders in a corporation engaged in such business. He also held that prohibition
against the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors applies to clerks in

•
.
Id b the drink if such clerks
· t ·eating liquors are so
Y
Id th t
drug stores w here m oxi
Th Grand Master also he
a a
1
actua11y themselves engage in such ~a es.
~ in the manufacture or sale of
dimit could not be granted to \brot ~r e;!'1~ere pending against him on that
intoxicating liqu?rs even t~~~~ednfo~ t~e dimit.
account at the time he petlti
G d M ter decided that a chemist for a
Early in his term of office the . r~n.
as hibiting Masons from engaging
ble to the prov1s1on pro
. d th t he
brewery was not amena
.
. t'
liquors but frankly adm1tte
a
in the manufacture or sale of mtox1ca i~;t 't should be disapproved. (Right or
believed the decision to be wrong. afd ~
t s commendation for his courage
rong the Grand Master certam y eser~e
~ making this admission and recommendation.)
Iowa. (1936):
d 't Masonic offtnse to engage in the
law ma e. I a
d th punishment was
( Grand Master) : . Our old
nder any circumstances, an
e
sale of intoxicating I1quor U
expulsion.
d't'ons is practically no law at all,
•
· a caf e, a
But our present 1aw, U nder p,r esentA con
M 1 1 may
se11 liquor m
a~o~.ll retain his Masonic standing
except as it applies to bootleggers. 1
grocery store, a liquor store or a sa oon an s I
on an equality with every other Mas~n. th t the present system of handling
Many well-informed people believi~ . a th n the old licensed saloon, before
.
b .
· ven more demora 1zmg a
h
ted
the liquor usmes~ ~s. e
da s the business was somew at segrega
the days of proh1b1t1on. . In those
y
into a saloon unless he wanted to.
at least and a person did not have to. go I n One can hardly find a place
'
restaurant 1s a sa oo ·
h t
h
t table drinking beer. To say t a
But nowadays near1Y every
to get a meal without som~ne at t ; ~~~ ugh the civil law declares 3.2 beer
black is white d?esi:i't make it s~n~~ t~at ~t is intoxicating, at least to so~e
to be non-intox1catmg, yet well h'
·11 be on our young people, the commg
persons. What the effect of a t is w1
generation, it is hard to tell.
Kansas (1936):
,
ittee). The Grand Master (Washington)
(Chairman Correspondenc~ Com;the ~estion of liquor, and ~e note that
was requested to render a rulmg. o 't q . red ten rulings. J udgmg from the
in order to cover th~ who~e question. I drequ\ whether this was not carrying
following, the question might be raise as o
.
..
man who is employed by a wholethe joke too far:
This company sells beer. InasA Lodge received a petition fr~m a
sale fruit and grocery com~anhy ~s . or:~~~gular course of his duties, I ruled
much as it passes through his .a~ s m
that he was not eligible to petition.
.
Maine (1936):
.
. The report of the Committee on
(Chairman Corresponde~cc. Co:;~~{:~bia) is written, as for many. yea.rs,
Foreign Correspondence (D1stnJct
A W t Of the liquor issue he said with
by Past Grand Master .Brother ames . ..~. oung man whose father's .drug
a touch of delightful irony and sarcaLs~.
Byoard and where the young man
't
for the State 1quor
,
.
t
store was a depos1 ory . .
n Lod e Nobody has got do:wn to it ye '
worked, was refused admission by o e
that to watch a brewery truck
but if this thing keeps . up we m,~Y soon n
unload will be a Masomc offense.

ld

Michigan (1936):
. .
1 f I for a Lodge t~
( Grand Lodge): I. The decision that it is nothte as:nfng of intoxicating
accept for membership a man who is engaged in

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

648

649

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

beverages at retail, or beer to be consumed on his premises, is not in harmony
with any precedent of this Grand Lodge.
There is no Masonic Law to that effect in this Grand Jurisdiction. Grand
Lodge regulations prescribe the qualifications for initiation and membership.
This is not one of them. It has been the long time policy of Grand Lodge
t·.) leave this subject to the judgment of the local Lodge, which is the best
qualified to determine the personal qualifications of the particular candidate,
rather than to cover the subject by a general regulation. We recommend that
the above ruling be not approved.
• 2. The same considerations apply to the decision that one engaged in
selling intoxicating liquors at retail, should not be elected Senior Warden and
the Lodge electing him is unworthy to hold its charter. This is a matter for
the Lodge to determine, in the absence of Grand Lodge Regulations to the
contrary.
Minnesota (1936):
(Grand Master): The Grand Master was asked for his opm1on upon a
rather novel situation. There was a municipally owned liquor store, and the
question was whether the members of the city council violated the Masonic
code from the fact that the city council was responsible for, and controlled and
operated the liquor store. The decision of the Grand Master was that the
members of the council were not guilty of a violation of the Masonic code.
Nebraska (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Lodge of Nebraska
has taken the most drastic position on the liquor question. A member of a
partnership, a member of the Board of Directors of a corporation, the Board
of Directors of an incorporated club selling liquor, the clerk in a drugstore
who sells liquor, a worker in a restaurant, a chemist in a distillery, a pharmacist
in a drug store, a landlord of a building u~ed as a beer parlor-all come under
the ban. We cannot quite understand why the Grand Master excepts minority
stockholders because, as he says, "I have held that, the elements of 'profit' or
'loss,' resulting from the manufacture or sale of beer, wine or other intoxicating
liquors as a beverage, ~s not the controlling factor."
New Hampshire (1936):
(Chairma11 Correspondence Committee): New Mexico and New Hampshire are alike, in that they have never adopted special legislation as to the
liquor question. In both states it is the Lodges that determine the stand.
Ohio (1935):
(Grand Master): The Grand Master also decided that a member owning
whiskey warehouse receipts, while not on that account engaged in the liquor
business, was nevertheless violating the Grand Lodge by-laws as such a sale
of certificates would subject him to the penalties provided by the by-laws.
Virginia (1935):
(C hairma11 Correspondence Committee): This from California Review :
"Legislation (by Grand Lodge) against the admission of the liquor seller
is growing "and growing more involved in its growing. The bookkeeper and the
runner of the engine in the brewery, as well as the holder of stock in a like
concern are down and out. The hauler of the beer from the brewery is in
danger, thereby endangering all the trainmen on our railroad, and the sky is
threatening round and about the grower of the barley. The drinker is still
standing on safe ground."

We notice that no Grand Lodge has yet barred the petitioner "Yho drinks
the stuff, unless perchance he has done so until he has become notorious.
Washington (1936):
. .
'(Grand Master): N 0 man is eligible for the degrees or ~or affihati~n wh~
owns a poolhall or sells beer-<>r the manager o~ a hotel wh_1ch has a art at
sells liquor-or an employe in a brewery as engmeer-<>.r ch_1ef1 acco_untan . or
a grocery firm that sells beer-<>r part time helper at his wifes fillmg station
where liquor is sold-<>r a young man employed in his. fathe~'s drug store,
which is a depository for the State Liquor Board, where ltquor ts sold.
Western Australia (1936):
(Chairman Conespondettce Committee): When one reads of the boo.tlegger
in United States journals as culpably dishonest and decidedly un-~en~:-~
veritable criminal1 indeed-it must be comforting to learn that th~ ~a~ c~imma
wears a halo of glory-for taxation purposes. He ha~ to furms . ~ mcome
tax authorities with a schedule setting out the ~art~culars of his f tll-g~t~~
gains in order that he may pay income tax. Nothmg m the shape o con s
tion, 'whole or partial. For the purposes of. income. tax he i~ asses~ed the sam~
as the honest earner of taxable income. Hts . halo. 1~sures him agamst prosecu
tion His communication to the department 1s pnv1leged, and cannot form an
indi~tment for lawbreaking. Prosecution only lies if it is discover~d tha\he ~as
not disclosed to the taxation authorities the whole amount of his boot eggmg
income. That dims the halo.

THE WORSHIPFUL MASTER
If the qualifications set forth by the G~and Master of Indiana could
be found in one selected to fill the Oriental chair, he would be :1' supe~nfortunately too many Masters fall far short of the requ1remen s
man. u
set forth.

Indiana (1937)
·
· h
(Grand Master): A Brother, to be thoroughly competent. to d1.sc arge
the duties of the office of Worshipful Master, ~ust hav~ behm~ hn~~ft~~
of hard study close application, much sacrifice of time an un
ye~;s
1 have fou~d that many of our Worshipful Masters did not possess
f~e~:nce~alifications when installed into office. Some of them even go
througi their year of office without being qualified to con~r .any, ho~ ~~ly
par.ts, of the degrees, depending on! oth~rs tto tie~~r:h~~e th~~e~e~ib~rate~~
romised to perform. Lodges are arge Y o a
.
ff
~lect to office such unqualified and incompetent off1~ers. S~ch an ~ 1~er
not only brings embat:rassment to himself but often-times bn.ngs co~. us1~n
and dishonor to his Lodge. If he is not qua~ified to .d.o his part .m t .e
ceremonial work, he certainly does not stand 10 a position t~ reqmre h1s
minor officers to perform their duties. He must be a leader if he expects
followers.
.
A Brother may be thoroughly competent to confer the degree~, and
et totally incompetent to discharge the duties pertai~ing to. the ofhce of
\vorshipful Master. To be fi tted thoroughly for that high office, a Brother
must be conversant with the Ancient Landmarks of Freemasonry, the
Constitution and General Regulations of .t he Grand Lo.dg~ a?d the By-law~
of his Lodge. He must be well in~ormed on Masonic. JUnspru~ence an
Masonic parliamentary law ; also he must be versed m the etiquette of

GRAND LODGE OF CALI F ORNIA

650

651

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the Fraternity. In other words, he must be equipped to discharge any duty
that ·m ay fall to his lot while standing before his Brethren as the head of
his Lodge. When a question of law is raised in the Lodge, the Worshipful
Master should be able to make a prompt ruling thereon, and when he has
made his decision, he should have the firmness to prohibit a further discussion.
The Worshipful Master must know the proper form of keeping the
records of the Lodge, and he must see that they are correctly kept; he
must know that all financial matters are properly rendered and that everything pertaining to the business and well being of his Lodge receives
prompt attention. The Grand Lodge holds him responsrble for the conduct
of his Lodge in all particulars.

THE MASTER'S HAT
Even in the early days of Masonry this question was present. In one
of the old Catechisms we find the question, " Where does the Master hang
his hat?" With the answer, "On Nature's peg." While the "plug hat"
still seems to be the insignia of the Master, some of them from their age
produce the same feeling as the well-known head gear· of Queen Mary and
Madam Perkins. The situation could be improved by either abolishing the
use of a hat, as in some of the European Lodges or else adopting a standard
one that never changes. To do this we would have to adopt the Massachusetts practice of using the three-cornered hat or some other form of "lid."
Florida (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : One Brother .objected, unless
the particular kind of a hat be prescribed. He didn't like the idea of the
Master wearing "any old hat,-soft, hard or what not, bowler or fedora, or
straw, and just because it is a hat, a tile or top piece." "There is no tradition
about it,-not a bit," he said, and furthermore, he said "it is purely an American
custom," and "not done anywhere else."
We are told that Masonry has certain "Landmarks."-Something unchangeable.-Some authors and some Grand Lodges list more and some less. There
is no universal agreement. Florida li~s none. The Master presiding while
covered is perhaps as much a "landmark" in American Masonry as any other
and about as often violated. But, unlike a member of the English House of
Commons, when addressing the Chair, he is not out of order, when presiding
uncovered.
New York (1936):
(Board of Custodians}: Masonic tradition has it that the Master of a
Lodge shall remain covered. The Master's hat is almost as much a symbol of
his office as the jewel appropriated to that station and we therefore recommend
that the wearing of a hat by the Worshipful Master be adopted by all Lodges
throughout this Grand J utisdiction.

*

*

*

*

(R.' .1W.'. Willicun C. Prime): Brethren, I don't know whether you know
or not, but the business of wearing hats is peculiar to America, so far as the
Master of the Lodge is concerned. It is. not done anywhere else. There is no
tradition at all about it,-not a bit.
If we are going to have the Master wear a hat as a symbol of his dignity,
it seems to me that it should be prescribed as to the kind of hat. It seems to

me that the encouragement of a man to wear any old hat,-soft, hard or what
not, bowler or fedora or straw, and just because it is a hat, a tile or a toppiece,-is not very wise. I have seen, and you have probably seen, in your own
neighborhood, Masters of Lodges in summer wear straw hats in the East.
lt is not dignified. Better no hat at all than that. But, if we are going to have
a law on the subject, I suggest that it be modified In the report and require
the Master to wear a silk hat,-I don't care of how old a vintage, but a silk
hat,-because it is becoming the office.
It may be that there is more than one Lodge in this J urisdiction that invests
· its Master Masons on being raised with a tile. I saw it some years ago I think
in North Tonawanda; and I think in a Masonic procession there I saw about
fifty years vintages of tiles. They were very interesting. T he reason too, as I
was told, was that a man should be equipped with an apron, and with gloves,
and with a hat to wear in his Masonic funeral procession,--or every procession,
but particularly funeral processions.
Now, I am presenting that suggestion to you, as one of common sense:
Either no law on the subject at all, or let the Master wear hi's hat or not,
as he likes; for I declare to you there is no tradition about it at all in Freemasonry throughout the world, and it is purely an American custom-if it is
a custom.

*

*

*

*

(Deputy Grand Master): The Grand Lodge cannot say whether it is to be
<>. silk hat or a brown hat; and in some sections ,of this State, perhaps, the
Master hasn't got a silk hat; but it is the internal, and not the external, qualifications of a man that makes the man what he is-not that which he wears.
Speaking for the Grand Master, I hope you will sustain this Committee's
report, because he would like every Master (as Charlie Johnson did before
him when he went throughout that State, and as I have tried to do; and if you
talk with the Grand Lecturer he will tell you the same thing), in this State to
wear a hat; preferably a silk hat, but if he hasn't got any we prefer him to
wear a hat. It ma.y not be as dignified as all of us would wish, but it is a
custom we would like to keep up.

A LONG ROAD BACK
There are undoubtedly a large number of Members, wao by financial
reasons were forced to dimit or were suspended during the financial
debacle. Many of these might perhaps be restored through a proper approach, based on an investigation that would take into consideration the~
former interest in the Lodge as well as the financial reason causing their
severance.
The requirements that they must pay all arrearages would work a
hardship, even under the above plan. Some Jurisdictions have taken the
attitude that in view of the fact the Brother was not a member of the
Fraternity during his suspension, and therefore not entitled to any of its
rights or benefits, it is hardly just to expect him to pay for "a dead horse"
as a penalty of a privilege.
New York (1936):
(Judge Advocate): M.' .W.'. Christopher C. Mollenhauer, Grand Master
said (1934 Grand Lodge Proc., p. 49) :
"In view of the fact that during the last three years Brethren have been
unaffiliated for non-payment of dues, and having in mind the economic depression through which we have been passing and the fact that many such Brethren

652

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFQRNIA

may be desirous of again returning to the Craft, I recommend that there be
no fee charged to any Brother for reinstatement to membership in his Lodge,
provided said Brother has not been unaffiliated or non-affiliated for more than
five years."
The Committee on Constitutions expressed its hearty sympathy with the
Grand Master's recommendation recommended the adoption of the amendment
as it now appears.
From the expression of the Grand Master, it is apparent that his recommendation was predicated upon a desire that Brethren who through financial
difficulties had been unable to maintain their membership in their Lodges,
should not have their way made more difficult by the further financial barrier
of the $10.00 Grand Lodge charge for reinstatement.
The purpose of the amendment seems clearly to be in line with the policy
which has been advocated by Grand Masters during the period of depression,
that restoration to membership in his Lodge should not be made more difficult
for a Brother by requiring the payment of further charges.
Nowhere ·is the indication given that similar consideration should be
extended to those who desire their Masonic affiliation by obtaining membership
in another Lodge.
I am of the opinion, therefore, in view of these rpany evidences of legislative intent, that the amendment promulgated relieving unaffiliated or nonaffiliated Brothers from payment of reinstatement fees, is intended to apply
only to those cases wherein the Brother seeks to be restored to membership in
the Lodge of his former affiliation.

653

year, it was officially asserted that all except two-Western Australia and
Nevada (U. S. A:)-were sufferers, the figures exceeding 140,000. Some of
these, probably a large majority, were victims of uncontrollaple circumstances
arising out of world conditions. Possibly included in the others was a more than
liberal sprinkling of Masonic ne'er-do-wells, who should never ,have been
admitted to the Craft. But there is reason to believe that a considerable
minority is formed of those who have ceased to care, those to ~horri Masonry
r.o longer presents that attraction that it did in the days of their ardent membership. These, or most of them, are neither driftwood nor dead timber. They
are victims of circumstanq:s which might and could have been avoided had
mqre attention been given to making Masons rather than members-had
Masonry been put into men rather than men into Masonry-had their Masonic
a.rdour received greater encouragement and guidance, and had it been realized
that to retain a fair membership in active standing is from the revenue point
c,f view as paying as making new members and not preventing the older ones
from dropping out. Having received them as members, is it not a 'Masonic
duty to get them back to us as quickly as possible. While it may be necessary
to wait till prosperity reappears to get back the sufferers from straightened
conditions, it may well be asked whether Masonic statesmanship is not equal
to the task of attempting to win back to our temples those who have ceased
to care. They are our brothers.

ODDITIES IN THE NEWS
Nova Scotia (1936):
(Grand Master): We all desire to see these losses made good, and I write
t0 make three suggestions as to the way in which you and your Lodge can
help.
1st-Go over the proceedings of Grand Lodge for the past ten years, and
list all the members of your Lodge who have been suspended. You will find
these names listed in the Proceedings under the head of "Suspended." Appoint a
small special committee carefully selected to go over this list and approach
those whose membership you consider should be regained.
2nd-Make a list of all your dimitted members for the past ten years.
Some have withdrawn because of financial reasons which may have now passed,
others possibly because of some real or fancied grievance. It is your duty in
every case to make an honest Masonic effort to secure their reaffiliation. Let
the same committee take this also in hand at once.
3rd-In addition to these two possibilities, there are in practically every
community a number of unaffiliated Masons. Approach them and persuade
them to affiliate with your Lodge.
Western Australia (1935):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The heavy decrease in Masonic
memberships in lit'erally all Jurisdictions speaking the English tongue is
beginning to be regarded in many quarters as almost a blessing in disguise.
it appears to be considered that after ·the Great War they were allowed to drift
into the Lodge after insufficient investigation, and that the Craft is well rid of
them as they were never true Masons at heart. To treat the brother who drops
out of active Masonic life as driftwood or dead timber may be correct in one
sense. Whether it is consistent with Masonic duty or responsibility, is quite
another thing. As already pointed out, most of the Grand Jurisdictions in the
English-speaking world are suffering from depleted numbers. Indeed, last

Under this phrase, now in general use over the Radio, we group miscellaneous matters arising in the various Jurisdictions, which we hope will be
interesting.
Colorado:
M.'.W.'.Brother Lewis E. Smith, Grand Secretary of Nebraska, presented
the Grand Lodge of Colorado with a gavel made from a part of one of the
logs of probably the first building ever erected in Nebraska territory, and in
which building the first Masonic meeting in that territory in May, 1885, was
held.
Connecticut:
At a special communication of the Grand Lodge held in Hartford April 29,
1935, a1;1 amendment to the General Statutes was adopted changing its name
from "Grand Lodge of Connecticut" to "Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of Connecticut." This change was made necesS<\ry because of other bodies in the state designated as "Grand Lodges,'' but
having no connection with Masonry.

*

*

*

*

We find in the list of Lodges one whose name interests us-Oxoboxo
Lodge, No. 116, of Mintville, Conn., a Lodge of some 197 members. We
don't know where Lodge.No. 116 got its name, but that name is what the
rhetoricians call a "palindrome"-that is, a name which can be spelled
backward or forward without change.
Delaware:
t
belaware, it appears is of the number of Grand Lodges that have a fourth
Degree--the Past Master's.

*

*

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

654

655

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand Lodge ad~pted his recommendation that 22 copies of Carl H.
Claudy's "The Master's Book" be purchased to be presented to ·each Lodge
* * * *
in the Jurisdiction.
The Fourth Estate Square Club of Philadelphia, an organization composed of members of the Masonic fraternity who ar~ newspapermen, ?~nor~d
me by conferring on me the Degree of Understanding and Broad V1S1on m
Philadelphia. I felt greatly honored by being selected to receive this degree as
but two others preceded me, one of them being former Mayor Harry A. Mackey
of Philadeli;>hia and one since, Chief Justice John W. Kephart, of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania. The Fourth Estate Square Club has been the means
of meeting some very fine Masons engaged in my own field of newspaper work.
Florida:
Because of the ever changing boundary line between China and Japan,
three of Massachusetts' Lodges now find themselves in Japanese territory.
Japanese law forbids secret meetings of any kind, but these Lodges. were not
disturbed on condition that they admit no Japanese to membership. Under
Japanese law, no Jap is permitted to join any secret society.
Georgia:
One decision of the Grand Master was that a brother who had been
dropped for non-payment of dues wh.ile insane, w~thout . knowledge of th~t
condition on the part of the Lodge which dropped him, might have a Masomc
funeral.
Jerusalem:
Mount Zion Lodge, in Jerusalem, which works in Hebrew, recent!y
initiated a priest of the Orthodox Church. After opening the Lodge m
Hebrew, the Master turned the gavel over to a Christian Arab, w_ho co?ferred the work,in the Greek language. The work was then continued m
French and the Lodge was closed in Hebrew. The members of the Lodge,
which is on the rolls of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, consists of O~thodox
Christians, Mohammedans, Israelites, Maronites and Copts. The Bible and
the Koran are displayed on the Altar.
Kentucky:
A reception is tendered the Grand Master by the Scottish Rite Bo~ies of
Kentucky annually on New Year's Day. This year follow ing the reception t~e
dedication of the Cowles Hardwick Memqria! Room took place. The room is
unique in that it is paneled with, and the furniture made of, genuine Cedar of
Lebanon wood.
Maryland:
It has been the custom for a few years past to hold a religious service in
this Temple on the Sunday nearest St. John the Evangelist's Day.
Michigan:
The Grand Master read the following personal message, "My heartiest
congratulations to the Most Worshipful <;rand Master .retiring after a y~ar of
ceaseless efforts and great accomplishments dedicated to Masonry. (Signed)
H. J. Ackerman," wt\o by the way, is one of the chief officers of the Knie;hts
of Columbus in Michigan. Later a bouquet of flowers from the s~me orgamz.ation was forthcoming. They evidently produce other than big automobile
factories in Michigan.

New York:
The yeai: 1936 being the 50th anniversary of the erection of the Statue of
Liberty on Bedloe's Island, the cornerstone of which was laid by the Grand
Master of Masons in New York, the Grand Lqdge accepted an invitation to
participate in the anniversary celebration ceremonies. The Grand Lodge on
January 1, 1936, presented a visitors' registration book which is used by the
visitors to the statue.
North Dakota:
We confess to getting a laugh over a resolution (unanimously passed)
urging the football team of the Masonic Home and School (Texas) to beat
Dallas Tech that week, and to win the state championship. Grand Secretary
Pearson fails to relieve our minds by adding a footnote giving the score. It
would have ·been just like the Dallas boys to ignore the resolution and lick the
tar out of the Grand Lodge proteges.

*

*

*

*

The Grand Lodge of North Dakota owns a "Masonic Island" which is on
the Canadian borderline. There are SDJlle interesting details in the Proceedings
about tlie handling and the development of this project among which we note
an agreement entered into between the government of the Canadian Province
of Manitoba and the government of the State of North Dakota as to the maintaining of a water-level in the lake. This goes by the name of Lake Metigoshe.
The agreement now goes for approval to the Joint International Boundary
Commission which has jurisdiction of the boundary and international lakes between the United States and Canada.
Nova Scotia: ·
Grand Lodge of South Carolina adopted the Report of a committee for
the award of a bronze medallion to be known as the "Albert Gallatin
Mackey Medal", "for distinguished service to country or Freemasonry
without regard to state, nation or individual Grand Lodge." Massachusetts
has the Henry Price Bronze Medallion, and we ourselves, the Erasmus
J ames Philipps Bronze Medallion awarded for similar reasons, and South
Carolina is to be commended for it sdecision in this respect.
Oregon:
In Oregon the Grand Lodge has provided by law for the bonding of Lodge
officers who handle the money of the Lodge. The Grand Master refers to this
action with approval and calls attention to the fact that only a year or two
ago Lodges in Oregon lost about $10,000.00 through unfaithful treasurers.
Ohio:
Under the caption "Fifty Year Jewels" several controversies have arisen as to
who should own the Jewel after the death of the recipient. Incredible as it may
seem, even legal proceedings were threatened in one instance. In view of these
unfortunate circumstances the Grand Master advocated that a section be added
to the funeral ritual designating who should be the custodian-owner of the jewel
after the burial.

*

*

*

*

Acting un<ler Special Dispensation from the Grand Master, Center Lodge,
No. 86, and Bloomfield Lodge, No. 422, convened at 5 a. m., on top of Buel's
Hill, three miles south of Centerburg. A candidate was raised to the sublime
degree of Master Mason.
This out-of-door meeting was one of the most inspiring of all the meetings
which the Grand Master was privileged to attend during the year. Buel's Hill

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

rises 150 feet above the surrounding country, on top of which is a sunken ampi-.
theater· capable of seating 2000 or more persons.

words are taken from the Hebrew and literally mean "the secrets of ~
prepared brother." ·As used by the Grand Lodg of Pennsylvania they mean
nothing more nor less than the book of Constitutions.

656

Pennsylvania:
The Grand Marshal removed from office a Lodge Secretary and a Lodge
Treasurer for usin!;\' the Lodge bulletin in furthering the Secretary's campaign
for public office, which action was eminently right and proper.

*

*

*

*

The finartcial accounts use nearly 200 printed· pages of the Proceedings.
One reason for it is the fact that the trial balance has the "figures $17,673,348.89.
The exper:ditures for their Temple were $55,411.56.

P. E. Islands:
When the Grand Lodge opened the Grand Secretary was at his desk. When
it closed he was Grand Master. That is one of the Masonic rarities. There
is a mass of appreciation in the action taken. A devoted Masonic life received
its crown.
Quebec:
The Grand Master ap.pointed a Committee ·of Scrutineers (Tellers) to
count the vote at the election of Grand Lodge officers.
Rhode Island:
During the year, in Rhode Island, 43 scholarships were awarded to young
women and young men from the Grand L.o4ge Educational F und . . Stu~e?ts
who are being assisted by this fund are attending eleven colleges and umvers1ties.
South Carolina:
The Lodges in Cherokee County held a wonderful meeting in August on
top of Draytonville Mountain near Gaffney, where a. complete Lodge roo.m had
been set up on. the mountain by the brethren, usmg only the material the
mountain afforded.

*

*

*

*

The Grand Master has a name that is not very popular in South
Carolina, for a man came down our way once upon a time by that name
(Shermi,ln) who was awfully careless about how he han~led fi;e. Nevertheless this Grand Master, from the appearance of the p1ctur m the Proceedings and from my personal observation of him in Washington recently,
would be very careful with fire, we believe.
Victoria:
In Victoria when one registers his attendance at a Masonic meeting the
paper signed is called an "appearance sheet." Although we do not term it that
way it .is a pedect definition.
WaShington:
Washington has an officer known as the Grand H istorian and he makes an
extended report, considering the oldest Lodges in the state and making intelligent and interesting comments concerning them.
Wisconsin:
We find that the term "Ahiman Rezon" is the title given to a book of
constitution of the Grand Lodge of "Ancient" Masons in England. The

657

Wyoming:
The Grand Master ruled that it would not be· lawful for a Lodge to furnish
a room in a public hospital, since the room would be used for the general
public, which we think was a logical decision. He also ruled that Lodge funds
could not be. used to contribute to the Boy Scouts nor for a Thomas A. Edison
memorial.

*

*

*

*

November 4th of every year is set apart to be celebrated by the several
Lodges of the Grand Jurisdiction of Wyoming as the Masonic birthday of
George Washington. The Grand Master reports that in accordance with this
standing resolution every Lodge in Wyoming, either separately or in union meetings with other Lodges, held appropriate services.

A CHANGING WORLD
Observation by the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence
from New Jersey (1935):
" Much of our present difficulty can be traced to the American trait
which makes mass and magnitude the criterion of success.
"Masonry in the old days was a simple organization; its dues were
intended to cover a ll financial wants; its benevolences were t he concern of
-the individual members. In these later years, all this has been changed.
L'Oi;lges and Grand Lodges have assumed property interests, foundations,
inves·tment problems. Benevolences are highly institutionalized. Activities
are carried out on a large scale. We may look back wistfully to the -0lder
and simpler Masonic code of living, but with Masoonry as it is today the
education and guidance of Lodge officers,· in matters of business and
finance is as essential to Masonic success as excellence in ritualistic or
esoteric work."
The Grand Master of Missouri also makes the following comment:
Respect for F reemasonry is too often sadly lacking from those to whom
we should look for the best, and when conferring degrees, indifference, poor
training, or lack of sincerity is plainly noticeable. The capable worker who is
really in earnest, whether Master or Steward, will make a happy and lasting
impression upon the candidate. Sometimes at funerals we behold an incompetent
Master attempting to render that sublime ritual, and bringing discredit upon
the whole body of Freemasonry. But the most serious offender is the brother
who, by misconduc~ brings the fraternity into disrepute.
A persistent clamor continues, to "Bring Freemasonry up to date," which
in reality means bringing it down to the level of questionable practices in
every day life, and to "excuse" some Freemasons who may do certain things
under the specious plea of necessity. The depression has broken down the moral
fiber of many men, who, as a result, do things they would never think of doing
under normal conditions. But Freemasonry demands that its followers live up
to its standards, and the problem is to bring the world up to Freemasonry.
Freemasonry is a venerable institution, whether it has existed for three
thousand years, or three hundred; it has withstood adversify, and has always
emerged stronger than ever. But it has never triumphed by compromising with
baser elements ; the charge given with the apron of the Entered Apprentice

658

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

forbids that. And finally, the Freemasonry that survives through the ages must
inspire men to lead honest, pure and upright lives, to be good citizens and true
to their government, to respect the sanctity of. the home, and finally to look
forward to a blessed immortality "in that House not made with hands."

THE MOVING FINGER WRITES .
The Proceedings of the average Grand Lodge from a Reviewer's standpoint may be divided into three parts. Under "Interesting" could be
grouped the Messages of the Grand Master, orations, historical papers and
matters of a like character. Under "Instructive" we would, of course, class
the Report of the Chairman on Correspondence and the work of an Educational Committee. Under "Superfluous" should be included the Roster of
Members and the long detailed reports of Certified Public Accountants
and Officers disbursing funds. The added high cost of printing, paper, etc.,
has caused the elimination of a large amount of "Superfluous" matter, which
would never have been dropped as a result of criticism.
Of course if a Grand Lodge believes that this has a value to the general
membership, or for their records, it is their individual affair and one that
should not be criticized.
Iowa (1935):
(Chairma11 Correspondence Committee): A correspondent reviews the 1935
Communication of the Grand Lodge of Iowa and objects to the fact that
we printed the names of six expelled Masons. This reviewer is inclined ~o
agree with his objections but in defense of our own Grand Secretary, who 1s
charged with the responsibility of preparing the Proceedings, we are in justice
bound to point out that he is governed by the Masop.ic Code of Iowa which
states that wlit>n publishing the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge he shall cause
to be published therewith a list of all expulsions and suspensions for un-Masonic
conduct in the Jurisdiction as reported to his office for the preceding year. This
does not leave him much discretion as the reports to hi's office naturally carry
the names of the parties in full.
North Dakota (1935):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Seems like we got under Sa.m's
(Grand Secretary Goodwin) hide with some of our kidding about the publications of Lodge rosters in the proceedings and professes ·ignorance of what we
mean by "sucker list." Good Gosh ! we thought everybody knew that every
get-rich-quick concern has a mailing list which it al"".ays referred to as the
sucker list. We often wonder what a Grand Master m any one of the half
dozen jurisdictions which annually publishes its entire membership list would do
to a Lodge Secretary who might slip some book agent a list of the members.
And yet, nothing is easier to obtain than a copy of the .Proceedings with the
information for the entire state. We are told that the hsts are valuable and
useful and we'll haveio take his word for it but so far as we can see, whatever
utility' there is, could be supplied by furnishing each Lodge with a printed list,
without publishing them to the world.
Oregon (1935):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The reading of t~e Proceedings in
open Lodge is required in this Jurisdiction (Minnesota) and placed some of the
Secretaries in rather a ludicrous position. They showed in their report that the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

659

Proceedings had been read on a date previous to the time that the volume had
been mailed from the Grand Secretary's office.

*

*

*

*

.(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Indiana
recommended that in the future only statistical tables be printed in the rear of
the Proceedings and the report. of the Foreign Corres·pondent be omitted and
that such items of ·interest in his Review be printed in the Indiana Freem'ason,
the official publication, which is furnished free to seven officers of each Lodge.
We are glad to say that this recommendation did not carry. His recommendation
was made in the interest of economy, to reduce the cost of printing. A survey
of this year's Proceedings leads one to believe that a little more attention to
the savings of space in the main body and less abandon in spreading statistics
over .pages that could be easily combined, would provide ample room for the
Review and still reduce the present volume by 100 pages.
Oregon (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The non-appearance of Oregon
among the Jurisdictions reviewed is a source of regret, yet we feel that it is
not due to any fault of the Connecticut Scribe. We are in ,hearty acco;d with
many of the comments. Particularly is this true when 'he speaks of the recommendation made in Oklahoma to eliminate or curtail the review report for the
purpose of retrc:nchment and then waste 255 pages on matter that is non-essential. If this tendency to sacrifice the Reviewer.s' output continues much longer
the only thing that remains for us to do for our own protection, and for the
benefit of Masonic education, is for us to form a union and call a strike.
Seriously speaking, however, our observations coincide with that of Brother
K_ies that a judicious use of the blue ~ncil throughout would result in a saving
ot 50 per cent of the printing cost of many of the Jurisdictions that are endeavoring to reduce it by eliminating the Reviewer.
Utah (1936):
(Cliairman. Correspondence Committee): These days of automobiles and
streamline trains, of airplanes-this machine age which insists on cutting corners
and reaching an objective with the least possible expenditure of time and
nervous energy-may we say it ?-<foes not smile on a table of contents and no
index l "If that be treason," etc. To be sure a table of contents is much better
than nothing at all, for in search of the location of a particular subject one has
t0 run .over· (as the volume 1before us) only two and one-half pages, instead of
the ent1r~ two hundred and seven pages, to find the thing sought, but how much
more satisfactory and less nerve racking and temper "frazzling," is an index.
Why not an index, and di&Pense with the table of contents? Oh, ye Knights of
the Quill-What say ye?

*

*

*

*

(Grand Secretary): Grand Lodge desires to know when the Abridgement
of the Proceedings was read in open Lodge. To this question one Secretary
reported: "Just read"; another: "When received"; another: "At various meetings." Surely, Grand Lodge must be grateful for this specific information,
It might be added that as thirty minutes afford ample time in which to read
~his Abridgement, the "Various meetings'" referred , to must ·have been brief,
mdeed.
Utah (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The North Dakota Reviewer is
"down on" the printing of what he is pleased to term the "sucker list" in Grand
Lodge Proceedings, that is the rosters of membership. We hold no brief for

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the practice, but we do know that these lists are useful and valuable aside from
that of feeding the purse of the printer. "Sucker list" I Does our Brother mean
to imply that all whose names are thus printed are "suckers"? He doesn't
qualify his statement in any respect but lumps them all together. And are we
to infer that while the ·p rinter's bill is the principal consideration, it is also
necessary to protect these potential "suckers" from assaults from without,
which they are too weak and unsophisticated to meet in person ? Are the dozen
Grand Lodges to ·which he referred that print these rosters derelict in Masonic
duty when they expose members to such dreadful dangers? For some reason or
other, the life history of the hermit crab comes to the fore, and we are unable
to pump up any sympathy I

District of Columbia (1935):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Cut out about 90 per cent of the
publicity accorded our activities that is now displayed in the public prints. Cut
out street parades and minstrel shows with the name of Masonry attached to
them. Discourage the idea that we are a benevolent or protective order; neither
are we a reform school. In fact, employ our time attending to our own business
in ?~r own way. so far a.s Masonry is concerned, and play the same part in
pohtical and business affairs that any other good citizen should.

660

*

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Utah, for 1936 was kindly dealt
with by the reviewer (North Dakota). His reference to what we had to say
about "sucker list" in treatment of N-Orth Dakota last year, brought a smile.
No, Walter, you did not get "under the hide" of the present writer. The
particular cutide mentioned has been "stuck fast" where it now is too many
years for any portion to be so easily lifted. And if we may be pardoned for
boasting, just a little, we are not entirely unsophisticated-at least we ought
not to be-after twenty-two years at the Round Table. We really hav~ picked
up stray bits of information concerning "mailing lists'i and their uses. Not the
matter of lists, "Sucker" or other, was in mind when we touched on this subject
a year ago. It was the "tone" of the remark, a bit oracular; whatever that
means, it seemed to us, with more than an implication (or so we thought) that
all whose names appear in rosters were in rea·lity "suckers."
Western Australia (1935):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): On more than one occasion I have
drawn attention to the custom in some Jurisdictions of printing full rosters or
registers of their Lodge membership. In some instances these lists reach
prodigious proportions. They become entitled to the application of the wellknown term "aldermanic proportibns," and suggest a return to those prediluvian
days when the mastodon, the mainmoth, the megalosaurus, and the labyrinthodon
stalked about the earth. That love which the pauline aphorism hath it "suffereth
all things," inspires belief that its more than generous dimensions were intended
for a good purpose, and not as a mere publicity stunt. But 1ts adaptability to
commercial purposes is indubitable. Secondhand book-sellers seem impressed
with this view, judging from what I saw on a large card in a secondhand book
store in a city in the United States. It bore the following legend: "Mail
Order Houses, Note I We have a number of Masonic membership rosters for
sale." And in an adjoining allotment there was a written notice on a private
bil.Jboard: "Gods for Sale." On inquiry, I found that "Gods" was the would-be
seller's way of spelling "goats." Think of it! Masonic and goat notices in
what one of Henry Cockton's character called "juxtaposition."
SAILS THAT CATCH THE WIND
The glamour of Masonry, perhaps to the average man, is due to the
thought that it is a Secret Society. Members connected with the Fraternity
by publicity have in the course of time perhaps removed that, even going
to the extreme of publishing what should properly remain unknown. Statements by others based, either on real or fancied knowledge, have also had
an influence. Grand Lodges, by advertising the activities of Masonic Homes
and in efforts to raise Endowment Funds have tended to make the general
public believe that one of our chief objectives is Benevolence.

*

*

*

661

*

The Grand Master of Kentucky ruled that it was permissible to organize a
ball club composed of Master Masons, but would not permit the use of the
emblem on the uniforms of players who were not Masons. It occurs to this
writer that the uniform of a ball player is not a very appropriate place to display Masonic emblems.

. . .. .

Individually it is our duty, whether Masons or not, to interest ourselves in
the business and politics of the Nation, not from the standpoint of class but
from the standpoint of good citizenship.
'
As for Masonry in business, that is something else again. We have a class
of business men who are Masons who would, if they were permitted, display
the Square and. Compasses on their show windows, for after all, Masons are
only human beings. And many applicants have been innocently led to believe
that Masonry ~as some all-po~erf~I genii, possessed of some magic property
calculated to bring about the m1lenmum for its votaries.
Florida (1937):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : This writer will never apply for
a 50-year button, if he reaches that age in Masonry. H e does not believe in
advertising his age any more than he does advertising Masonry.

•

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondrnce Committee): "All over the country Masons are
'scr~tchi~g their heads' for ne~ ideas to add to the ·regular routine! of Lodge
busmess m order to compete with other attractions, in an endeavor to increase
Lodge attendance," says the Grand Master of Masons in Louisiana as a prelude to his championship of Masonic radio broadcasts,
'
He instituted two such movements during the · year, "to instill additional
.
mterest ;md attendance, and revive the interest of suspended members." But
the reaction to it was disappointing and he abandon·ed a proposed third such
broadc~st. !fe seem~ to find an inconsistency in permitting public diffusion of
Maso~1c..ph1loso~?Y in funeral and cornerstone. lay~ng ceremonies, .while denying
th~ pnv~lege to . read from ~e. same manuscript m front of a microphone, the
voice bemg earned by the m·11e instead of by the inch."
He regretted that the two broadcasts "resulted in somewhat of ' a controversy among our members," and that his twenty minutes discourse "on S-Ome
of the public philosophy of Freemasonry over the radio seems to have been
criti~ised in so1:11e portions of the State as the means of throwing open to the
public the precious, closely guarded, secrets of the Fraternity."
He also mentions a South-wide network, proposed by another GTand Master
to broadcast brief addresses by various Grand Masters, but nothing came of it'.
~ell, whe.n. Masonry ~akes to the radio alongside of politics and commerc1~l ad~erttsmg, then will Freemasonry be on the way out, is the opinion
of this writer.
It would be surprising to, the profane to know how few secrets, worthy of

662

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

l HAN I ,I >l>C. IC OF CALIFORNIA

the name, there are in Masonry, but, like the re.spectaible family home, there
is much that is private, and except for the orderly and dignified performance
o! its outside work, all its proceedings should be conducted within the tyled
recesses of the Lodge, not to protect "precious, closely guarded, secrets;"
per se, but to insure undisturbed privacy of congenial spirits about their work.
Shows wear out. Masonic ceremonies, never!
Illinois (1936):
(Grand Master): Attention has been called in some cases when notices of
Lodge activities were not kept within the bounds prescribed by that Code.
Post card notices of meetings which are extended to include cartoons, witticisms and allusions to games, dancing, entertainments and the like are in
violati~n of the spirit and letter of Code 224 and are wholly lacking in dignity
and are, perhaps, equally lacking in any appeal to the interest of dignified and
self-respecting members of the Lodge.
Maine (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) Grand Master Anderson (Canad~)
speaks a few words of warning admonition to those .few Lodg~~ that use ~heir
official "summonses" for the purpose of commercial adverhsmg, here 1s a
sample: "Our esteemed Brother ..........•.....•...~.. is about to open a first-class
Grocery Store on.-... 1....... .. ........ street opposite........................ theatre. I am sure he
will be glad to see any of the ........................ Brethren who wish to call. We wish
you every success in your new venture."
The Grand Master also and rightly criticises and condemns the use of
"pugilistic and sport" language in these official documents deeming it beneath
the dignity of the Order. Of the impressive ceremonial of initiation the Grand
Master urges quiet solemnity and seriousness and the doing away with the horseplay and "side-show" elements that so easily creep into the ritual and work of
the degrees.
Missouri (1936):
·(Grand Master): The situation of the Masonic .publications i~ this Juri.~­
diction continues to be unsatisfactory. There are two of these, one m St. Louis,
the other in Kansas City. Both are owned and co~trolled by private interests.
These papers may lead the uninf~rmed to believe that they speak as the
voice of the Grand Lodge, when in fact they pave no such authority.
Claims have .been made during this year that the publication of a Masonic
paper or periodical or of a <l.irectory of Masonic Lodges confers a vested right
on the individual who may have enjoyed this privilege. At least one thinly
veiled threat has been made of action in court, in case the Grand Master should
forbid L~dges to furnish information to such publisher. It should be clearly
understood that the furnishing of membership lists for a Masonic directory or
of Masonic transactions to a Masonic paper are matters entirely under control
of the Grand Lodge, which may at any time forbid Lodges to furnish such
·
information.
The Committee on Masonic Publications reported as follows:
"After careful consideration, by exchange of thought, in committee meetings and iby correspondence, and personal contact of committee members, the
committee reached unanimous opinion that from the standpoint of the welfare
of .the fraternity, lists of names of Lodge members, either with or without
addresses should not be printed, and that rolls of membership should exist only
in Lodge offices and Grand Lodge offices where needed.

663

"We, therefore, recommend thut l.od,e1 within this jurisdiction be forbidden to print 1uch liata of memben or to contrtbule in any way to the
financial support of, or furnish the list for a Masonic Directory of its members.
To carry out this recommendation the committee will introduce a 1by-law to this
effect."
Nebraska (193Z):

•

( Chairma.n Correspondence Committee) : I appointed a Masonic Educational Radio Broadcast Committee to make arrangements for a series of
Masonic talks to be broadcast by Station KZRM, Manila, for the purpose of enlightening the general public on the character, aims, and ideals of the Masonic
Fraternity and counteract propaganda carried on by our enemies. Lodges were
instructed to co-operate by giving publicity to the days and hours of these
broadcasts and arranging for the largest number possible of members and outsiders to "listen in." A schedule of two 15-minute talks for October three
similar talks for November, three for December, and three for Janua;y was
arranged. Most of the talks were in English, :but there were also some in
Spanish.
I have reasons to believe that these radio talks accomplished their purpose
and I hope ways and means of continuing them can be found. (Grand Master
Philippine Islands, 1936.)
The Reviewer feels that broadcasting Masonic topics is the height of
impropriety and how constituted Masonic authorities with any conception of the
history, traditions, and policy of our Order could have permitted it is beyond
our imagination. Our Institution is sufficient unto itself and requires no public
justification by r.adio in competition or association with political, religious or
crank propagandists, advertisers of tobacco, cigarettes, clinical services advice
to the lovelorn, and kind.red topics.
'
New South Wales (1936):
(Grand Master): It has been reported to me that in some of our Lodges
the custom has crept in of promoting Sunday picnics or motor outings for
members and their families and giving notice of the arrangements for same on
the Lodge circular. This is not permissible, and must be discontinued, as it is
not seemly that Masonry should identify itself with pleasure functions held on
the Lord's Day.
It is refreshing to find now and then a Grand Master who believes the
Sabbath Day should be observed in accordance with the standards laid down
by the founders of our nation and endeavors to hold the Lodges in his jurisdiction true to that standard.
New Hampshire (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of West
Virginia affirms that only a small percentage of their membership is interested
in Masonic knowledge, other than the ritual. Because of this it is easier to get
an appropriation for a banquet than it is to get one for books.
Ohio (1936):

(Grand Master): Dispensations to dedicate a privately owned cemetery
section .s~t asid~ for ·the "burial of Masons and their families," at one place, and
to participate m the cornerstone laying of the Masonic Section, at another,
was refused. The Grand Ma.ster said that "it appears that the dedication o{ a
portion of a cemetery for Masonic purposes is not always altruistic but often
·
the means of making Masonry 'a sales agency' ·for reai estate therei~." ·

665

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Philippine Islands (1936):
(Grand Master): One feature of Masonic life and activities which, in
my judgment, requires regulation is the publication of Masonic activities
h. the daily newspapers. There has been undesirable pultlicity in the past.
Garbled accounts of Masonic functions and the publication of the names
of initiates and officers have done individual members and our cause considerable harm. We must always remember that s<ime of our Brethren are so
situated that they cannot afford to have their Masonic membership advertised to
the world at large. The quiet and unostentatious manner in which Masonry
works and carries on is one of its chief attractions. Enough information that
should never pass the tiled d<ior of the Lodge is leaking out as it is without
broadcasting Masonic activities through the medium of the nonmasonic press.
Accounts of Masonic activities carried on behind tiled doors, such as the conferring of degrees, elections, and private installations of Lodge officers, etc.,
should never be given to. the press. Publicity with reference to Masonic
necrological services, public installations, and social activities of the Lodges
should 1be limited and controlled. No information on Grand Lodge proceedings
should b~ given out except by, or with the approval of, the Grand Master or
the Grand Secretary. Let there be only such publicity as may be strictly necessary or 'plainly beneficial to our Institution.

Illinois (1935):
(Grand Master): The Craft is still suffering the consequences of defaulted
building obligations. Inquiries concerning these are constantly coming to the
office of the Grand Master from men and women past the self-supporting age
who invested their money' because of their faith in Masonry and undertakings
in the name of Masonry. Legally, the Grand Lodge has no responsibility. It does
have a moral obligation which requires that it prohibit the use of the name of
Masonry in oonnection with unsound· financial undertakings. I therefore recommend that no building project or business enterprise of any sort promoted
. by Masons as such and in the name of Masonry be permitted to .incur any
indebtedness without submission of the project to some C<lmmittee of this
Grand Lodge and under conditions fully apprising investors that the Grand
Lodge is in no degree lia:ble therefor.

664

PICTURES OF THE PAST
Temple Associations and Lodges by reason of extravagant or overbuilding projects are now suffering the inevitable results. Unfortunately
legislation by Grand Lodges to prevent such a condition was generally
taken after the damage was done. One of the most regrettable features was
that those not members of the Fraternity were often induced to invest.
The financial outcome has engendered bitterness toward the Organization
as a whole and of course given Masonry a bad name in certain quarters.
Arizona (1936):
(Grand Lodge): The Pacific Mutual Insurance Company of California
brought suit in August, 1934, against Yuma Lodge No. 17, Yuma, Ariz., to
foreclose a first mortgage on a new building of Luma Lodge. The complaint
was in such form as t<> have permitted the insurance company to recover a
money judgment against the Lodge, its officers and trustees in the way of
deficiency judgment, and also against the trustees of the Grand Lodge if the
mortgage proper did not seem to satisfy the judgment and costs. The Grand
Lodge secured an agreement with the company, Yuma Lodge lost its property,
and the Grand Lodge lost its $6,000.00 loan it had made to Yuma Lodge in 1930.
Florida (1937):
(Grand Lodge): One of the first acti<ins of this Board was to engage the
services of an attorney to determine whether the Masonic Temple property
might be exempted from taxes as is done for the Elks Club building in this
city. This attorney has gone thoroughly into the subject and a bill to amend
the State law relating to the exemption of property from taxation has been
prepared by him and, we understand, will be introduced in :both houses of the
State Legislature tomorrow,. The Chairman of the Trustees has contacted the
District Deputies throughout this Grand Jurisdiction, and pr!nted copies of the
proposed legislative bill will be distributed during this Grand Lodge so that its
members may be advised and call upon their delegations in the Legislature for
prompt and favorable action thereon.

Kansas (1936):
(Grand ,Orator): Former Governor and present U. S. Senator Henry J.
Allen delivered an oration; here is a small part of it:
"And today when I think of the physical manifestation of Masonry, I do
not visualize the beautiful temples our Order has builded. I have progressed
through the degrees of two great rites. I have caught the beauty and. purpose
of their unrivaled symbolisms. My knowledge of history. has been enriched by
the traditions of antiquity through which I have been led 'by incomparable actors
who have bestowed our solemn rites.
"I have seen in bronze and marble gorgeous temples of our growth as an
Order. But when I think of Masonry, I am back in a modern rect.angular
Lodge room above a store in Manhattan, where the bankers, the merchants, the
lriwyers, the teachers, and the farmers gave me the sign, pass word, and grip of
a feilow craftsman, and made me Master of those gentle mysteries which set
apart in a sacred chamber of my life a new chapter of resolutions and a .new
sense of human obligations.
"To me all these ordinary men of my daily life, with their straig-!J.t.: End
simple faiths, took on a new nobility. I see them now as I stand before you at
this formal inst~nt, and through them I see Masonry.
"I am grateful for it at this moment of economic stress when men search
for new definitions in the world, and when some seek to delude themselves by
·
the intriguing clap-clap of new laibels.
Missouri ( 1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Grand Master Niemeyer · (Ill.)
finds Illinois Lodges still suffering the consequences · of defaulted building
~bligations. He reports receiving· inquiries constantly from men and women,
past the self-supporting age, who invested money in building undertakings
·because of their faith in Masonry. While, legally, the Grand: Lodge had no
responsibility, it did have a moral obligation which requires the prQhibition of
the use 'of the name of Masonry in connection with unsound financial undertakings. Hereafter, investors will be apprised of the fact that the Grand Lodge
accepts no liability for any Masonic building project except its qwn.

*

*

* *

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Changes in market conditions and
new methods of financing prompted the Grand Master of Rh ode Island to
recommend to the committee on finance that they employ the services of some
large trust company to handle their various investments. From what we have
observed, some of the larger trust companies made about as poor investments
as the average individual. At any rate, trustees of one of the funds reported

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

666

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that the market value of bonds was more than $10,000.00 higher than the cost
at which they had been carried.
·
New Mexico (1937) :
(Grand Master) : The Supreme Court of this state has, of comparatively
recent date, ruled that revenue producing property of any Lodge in this state
is liable for taxes on that portion producing the revenue.
It will be understood that subletting of Lodge halls to other fraternal
bodies would not be included in the foregoing, but Lodges owning property,
renting the downstairs portion for mercantile purposes, etc., are subject to tax
on that first-floor portion.
We call this to your attention in order that the title to the Lodge property
be not clouded, owing to unpaid taxes assessed against the same.
North Dakota (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The danger of making loans out
of Grand Lodge funds is forcibly 'b rought to our attention in a case in Arizona.
Some years ago six thousand dollars was loaned to help build a temple. Now
the holder of the first mortgage has foreclosed and even if the constituent Lodge
finally repays part or all of the loan, until that time the Grand Lodge and the
other thirty-eight lodges are holding the bag.
Quebec (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): By a ruling of the Grand Master
(Louisi;uia) and which was approved, Lodge rooms jointly used by a Masonic
Lodge and a Chapter of the Order of the Eastern Star "it is permissible to
hang upon the wall of the Lodge room, an enlarged photograph of any member
of the Eastern Star whom it is the desire of the Chapter using the Lodge room
to honor."
As everyibody who has the least sensibility or imagination draws a certain
pleasure from .pictures and especially enlarged photographs of ladies, it is to
be presumed that an increased attendance at Lodge meetings will result.

WITHIN THE PALE
Attempts to circumvent the generally accepted rule that liquor must not
be served at Masonic gatherings under Masonic auspices or in Temples has
of course resulted in criticism. Where such occurrences took place they
were soon remedied so far as we recall. There is little deviation in any
Jurisdiction from the broad rule that Masonry and Liquor, like "Gasoline
and Booze," will not mix, except with disastrous results.
Florida (1936):

(Grand Lodge): It is our opionion that under existing Masonic law, no
particular Lodge should rent any of its property to be used in the liquor
business. In order to remove all doubt from the subject, we recommend the
adoption of the following regulation:
·
Regulation No..... : No particular Lodge shall allow its properties or any
part thereof to be used for the purpose of conducting or carrying on a liquor
business in any form.
Maine (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committe;) : The same attitude is taken by the
Grand Master (Maine) in his dealing with lotteries and gambling for it appears

667

in his report that a Masonic Temple Association had a definite understanding
with the Chief of Police and the prosecuting attorney that the place would not
be raided. All kinds of gambling devices, slot machines, gambling with cards
(poker probaibly), etc., were permitted, and Grand Master S·herman doesn't
mince words in condemnation, saying "it was the most disgraceful condition
which has ever come to my attention for every Mason connected in any way
with this enterprise was a law-violator and his crime was punishable with a fine
or imprisonment." But what was done r Outside · of promising "not to do it
again" and the promise that in case it is revived there would be trials for
unmasonic conduct, why-"Just nothing at all." And such slaps on the wrist,
and "naughty, naughty," and promises of future .p unishments-nothing; but
the fact remains that the brethren had been guilty of gross violation of Federal
and State law as well as· Masonic law, and "got away with it."
Michigan (1935):
(Grand Master): We have a rule or law prohibiting the holding of parties
or entertainments in the Blue Lodge rooms where charges are made. I believe
this should be corrected so as to permit these entertainments to be held in the
Blue Rooms, provided the greater and lesser lights and altar are first removed
therefrom. We have in our larger cities, temples dedicated to Masonry, and in
those temples are billiard parlors, card rooms, lunch counters, etc., and
there are charges made for them. On the other hand, we have many Lodges in
small communities where the Lodge room is the only place that they have in
which to meet, and I recommend that this law be rescinded, and the Lodges be
permitted to hold entertainments in the Blue Lodge rooms, after removing the
lights and altar, with the understanding that all such entertainments shall be
dignified and of high character.
Michigan (1936):
(Grand Master): I have been advised by the Secretary of the Temple
Association that all forms of gambling have now :been removed from this
Temple. In case of its revival, there should be some trials for unmasonic
conduct on the part of the Masons connected with the practice.
Oregon (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Part of the second floor of the
Temple in New Orleans is given over to recreation rooms. Here the brethren
foregather after Lodge for social purposes. Seems that since repeal the brethren
are permitted to slack their thirst with a non-intoxicating drink called beer. As
before mentioned this is a non-intoxicating bevera.ge but it did something to
some of the boys, in fact some of the bathroom and latrine tenors simply had to
raise their voices in song. So much so that the pedestrians on the main street on
which the rooms front were entertained. The Grand Mastei: being advised of
conditions issued an order prohibiting the vocal gymnastics. The superintendent
of the building advised the brethren, following the installation of the officers of
a Lodge, that they must c:ease their indulgence, but when they were advised that
it was the order of the Grand Master the singers redoubled their vocal output.
Following this one of the noisy brothers called on the Grand Secretary and
demanded that his Lodge 1be permitted to move from the Temple since they
were not permitted to do as they pleased. The Grand Master subsequently suspended indefinitely for insubordination three of the offenders. All of which goes
to show that you can't play with a skunk and not retain the odor and just so
long as Masonry in any Jurisdiction hasn't the intestinal fortitude to stand by
its guns and not be deluded by political maneuvering around the question of
whether alcohol is intoxicating or not just so long will we have unpleasant
episodes as the above. Alcohol in any form or any percentage has no place in

669

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a building dedicated by and for Masons. Later on in the Session the committee reporting on the Grand Master's action recommended that he be upheld in it
and that the incoming Grand Master be directed to direct that charges be preferred and if the Lodge proves dilatory that the Grand Lodge should instruct
him to take charge of the Lodge and push the issue. Much debate ensued and
resulted in a motion that the Grand Master be sustained.

concerned. If the Grand Master has the power to step in (as is usually the
case) and order a Lodge to do the necessary and right thing, when it neglects
a manifest duty, that furnishes the required safeguard.
•

668

Utah (1935):
(Grand Lodge): In view of the fact that inquiries are being made as to
the position the Fraternity takes in regard we think · it not improper to express
our views. The attitude of Grand Lodge as opposed to any use of beer an~
alcoholic liquor in connection with the constituent Lodges is traditional and
this Committee entirely agrees with the Grand Master in his view that it is
contrary to the best interests of the Fraternity to permit beer, wine or spirituous
liquor to :be served or drunk at any function held under the auspices of a Lodge,
whether in a Masonic hall, a hotel, a private dining room, or at a picnic or
other outing. As stated by the Grand Master, this is in accordance with the ·
view adopted by many other jurisdictions.
Utah (1936):
(Grand Master): On three different occasions Masters of Lodges asked
whether there was objection to the serving of beer with lunch after Lodge
meetings. My reply in each instance was that I considered it contrary to the
best interests of the Fraternity to permit beer, wine or spirituous liquor to be
served or drunk at any function held under the auspices of a Lodge, whether
iu a Masonic hall, a hotel :banquet room, or at a picnic or other outing. In none
of the instances did I find that the Masters of these Lodges were desirous of
having beer served but some of their members had suggested it. The officers
of the. subordinate Lodges in most instances do not know that the general
pr'actice of the Fraternity in this and other Jurisdictions, even before the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment, would preclude its use. This question has
come up for consideration in .many states during the past two years and the
serving of alcoholic beverages at Masonic gatherings has been prohibited by
many of the Jurisdictions, among which are: California, District of Columbia,
Ohio, Illinois, Oregon and Washington.
Utah (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Jurisprudence Committee
(Michigan) disapproved the Grand Master's decisions with reference to liquor
and Grand Lodge approved the Committee's report. The grounds of disapproval were that the Lodge is best qualified to determine the personal qualifications of any particular candidate, and that no doubt is true, ·but there is another
angle to the question~and one of greater importance. It is generally conceded
that it is the business and the duty of Grand Lodge, and of the Grand Master,
during recess of Grand Lodge, to guard the honor and good name of Masonry,
at large. Conditions may very well exist in some . communities, which might
induce a Lodge to accept ·material which would :bring discredit upon the
Fraternity in general. This statement is based on disclosures made in the
printed Proceedings of Grand Lodges-a reading of which has been a part of
· the wol'k of the present writer for the last twenty-five years. Instances have
been met with where members guilty of embezzlement, or other felonies, and
were in the penitentiary at the time, were given a Masonic trial and sentenced to
a reprimand ! Another instance comes to mind, in which no action was taken by
the Lodge against a member serving time for a felony in a State penitentiary,
until the matter came to the attention of the Grand Master, who ordered an
immediate trial. Such cases are not limited in influence, to the Lodge directly

West Virginia (1936):
(Committee oii Jurisprudence): The Committee has given full c?nsid~ra­
tion to the question of dispensing :beer in the clubroom of the Masonic Building under a state license. This question is a serious one and while, as a
Committee, we do not criticize the conclusion reached by the Grand Master,
and appreciate fully the earnest consideration which he gave to it, yet we hold
it as grossly improper and unmasonic to set up a bar in such clubrooms for the
purpose of dispensing the so-called non-intoxicating beer. While there is no
statute prohibiting a gambling house or a house of ill fame in Masonic buildings,
yet every Mason would :be shocked if any such act was permitted therein, and
we believe that no Grand Master would hesitate for a moment to declare it a
species of unmasonic conduct and would not hesitate to arrest the charter of the
· Lodge that would permit it.
Therefpre, we recommend that the Grand Master of this Grand Lodge do
declare such action on the part of any Lodge as grossly unmasonic, and if the
action of any Lodge in so placing any bar in the clubroom of any Masonic
building be not immediately stopped, to arrest the charter of that Lodge at once.

THE WAY OF THE TRANSGRESSOR
Like the poor, the Report of Committee on Grievances and Appeals,
which covers the discipline of Members, is generally a part of the Proceedings. There are a few Jurisdictions, however, that do not contain such
material or where there is no cause. We believe that only the briefest outline of these unfortunate incidents should be set forth, but we cannot subscribe to the viewpoint that the name of the offender should not be given.
Finding a man guilty of an offense that warrants his severance from the
Fraternity, and then allowing the world at large, as well as the Brethren,
to labor under the illusion that he is still a member, we believe, shows too
much regard to one who has brought disrepute upon the Craft.
Consideration for offenders and minimizing their offenses is presenting
a serious problem in the administration of our criminal laws. Attorney
General Cummings and J. Edgar Hoover are authorities for this statement,
and a large part of their work is undone by maudlin sentiment or misplaced
sympathy.
Connecticut (1936):
(Grand Lodge): The Commissioners of Trials report the case of one member against whom charges of unmasonic conduct had been preferred in his
Lodge. The charge· consisted of obtaining money py false pretenses. The accused
had been tried and convicted in the state courts and sentenced to the penitentiary
for a term of not less than one year and not more than two and one-half years.
The Lodge found the accused guilty and fixed a penalty of "private reprimand."
On order of the Grand Master the case was appealed to the Commissioner of
Trials. The accused appeared, admitted the charges and offered, in extenuation,
proof that he had not personally in any way :benefited by the criminal transaction. The Commissioners of Trials found the accused guilty and recommended
that he ·be suspended until November 5, 1936. This recommendation was adopted
by the Grand Lodge.

670

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO~NIA

Florida (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Committee ori Correspondence in its review of Louisiana finds a Texas Lodge requesting a Louisiana
Lodge to try one of its members who was sojourning in the jurisdiction of
the Louisiana Lodge. The Code of Louisiana provides that an offending brother
be tried in his own Lodge, hence the Louisiana Lodge declined, which prompts
Brother Hagmeier to observe:
"Evidently from this, Louisiana does not claim jurisdiction over sojourning Masons within its borders as does Oregon. We have no hesitancy in washing other people's dirty linen, provided it was soiled within our borders."
Florida has a recent experience in "washing other people's dirty linen":We washed it and his Home Lodge and Home Grand Lodge "unwashed" it, so
"where are we at?"
Georgia (1936):
( Jurispnuien,ce Committee): A subordinate Lodge procured from the Grand
Master an edict with regard to the eligibility of a candidate who had recently
been convicted of crime, but who had been pardoned. The Grand Master rules
that the candidate had the right to apply for the degrees of Masonry but the
question of his character should be passed upon by the Lodge. He called
attention of the Lodge, however, to provisions of Section 146 which read as
follows: "A candidate should come· under the tongue of good report. One
recently convicted of crime should not be elected unless his good reputation has
been restored." We approve the decision of the Grand Master. A pardon
does not of itself restore a reputation.
Maine (1937):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Committee on Grievances
(Vermont) outlines in rather nauseating detail the offen&e of a former member of a constituent Lodge and while we have no inclination to criticize or
condemn the printing of such unfortunate occurrences, because that is our
sister Grand Lodge's affair, it will be agreed that the washing of such "dirty
linen" in thiqmblic, or at least · semi-public way, too easily plays into the hands
of our avowed censors, and can accomplish little goocf.

*

*

*

*

The report of the Committee on Grievances and appeals dealt with the case
of a brother who had been under suspension for 27 years. They thought he had
been punished enough, so they reinstated him. They might, however, have·
refrained from printing his name, as well as the names of the two other
brothers who were penalized.
Massachusetts (1934):
(Grand Master): Such are the frailties of human nature that it is perhaps
to be expected, in an organization as large as ours, there should be at times
somC--:happily _few-who are so forgetful of our principles and teachings, and
of the duty which they owe not only to the Fraternity but to society as a whole,
that they succumb to the temptations which beset them and by their actions
endanger the good ·name of Masonry.
The obligation for doing so rests upon the particular Lodges and the
individual brethren composing them. Unfortunately, however, experience has
shown that in the performance o.f this duty there is, on occasions, a regrettable
laxity.
It should never become necessary for the Grand Master to order the
Master of a particular Lodge to prefer charges against an offending brother
whose conduct has been highly injurious to our reputation.

671

In a purely business transaction I am inclined to agree with the judgment
of certain of our sister Jurisdictions, who prohibit Masonic trials on charges
which merely involve the settlement of business transactions.
Masonic offenses may be of two kinds :-first, those which are purely
Masonic in origin and character, and secondly, those which are quite unrelated
to Masonry except as they may tend to lower the Order in the estimation of
the world at large.
If the act be one which shocks the enlightened conscience of r ight-minded
persons, then it violates t he moral law, whether or not it be also a crime, and it
is a Masonic offense.
New Mexico (1937):
(Chairman Correspondeiice Cammitteej : Under the report of Grand
Lodge Trial Commission (North Daokta) we find the name of a Brother and
all the lurid details of an embezzling charge and the term for which he was
sentenced to the state penitentiary. Just why a Masonic report must include the
name of such an unfortunate brother we have never been able to understand.
Oregon (1935):
(Chairman Co1'respondence Committee): · The Committee on Trials and•
Punishment report a decline in the number of trials due, they feel, to the fact
that many of the undesirables have been eliminated from the rolls by the depression. That's one thing that should be given as a credit to the Republican
party at least.
Oregon (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Illinois said,
we cannot expect to attract the honorable as long as we harbor and protect the
dishonorable. He spoke of the reluctance on the part of some• of the officers of
Constituent Lodges to purge the rolls of undesirable members, even though
their present address is the penitentiary. He felt that in some instances this
reluctance was due to the present excessive cost of Lodge trials. Some economy
was effected last year by requiring that only one transcript of the trial be
required. He held that when a Mason has been convicted on a count of felony,
conspiracy, or any other offense involving moral turpitude, such convictions
should automatically result in his expulsion from the Fraternity.

*

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Code of Louisiana provides
that an offending brother be tried in his own Lodge. Hence when Tolerance
Lodge of Beaumont, Texas, requested that Shreveport Lodge of Shreveport,
Louisiana, try one of the Texas brethren living in Louisiana they were told
that it would :be more agreeable if they tried him themselves. Evidently from
this, .Louisiana does not claim jurisdiction over sojourning Masons · within its
borders as does Oregon. We. have no hesitancy in washing other people's ditty
linen, providing it was soiled within our borders.
·
Quebec (1936:
(Grand Master) : When the actions of a brother in his daily or private
life are such as to justify the adverse criticism and the proper contempt of
public opinion, it becomes at once not only the right but the duty of those
entrusted with the government of the Craft to take such steps against the
offending brother as may be appropriate and needful to purge our ranks of such
undesirables and thus convince the world at large that our Order will not
passively condone what society may properly condemn. We are the inheritors
of a proud past, and those who shall come after have a right to expect that we

673

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

shall hand down to them an institution with fair name untarnished and high
reputation unblemished.
As ·to those offenses which are not Masonic in origin and character but
which tend to degrade our institution in the estimation of the world at large, a
further element enters. Here the careful principle is the safeguarding of the
fair name of the Order. It has nothing to do with the internal management
thereof. If the act be one which shocks the enlightened conscience of rightminded persons, then it violates the moral law, whether or not it be also a
crime, and it is a Masonic offense. It would be impossible to state specifically
all the acts which might fall within this category. Many will readily suggest
themselves, while others may not be so obvious; but the test to :be applied in
all cases is the same, are the acts of a member such as may properly be considered reprehensible in the opinion of all fair and decent minded citizens in
the community? And if so, are such acts of such a character that they will
tend to reflect upon the good name of the Order if, .by silence and inaction; we
permit the offending brother to continue in good standing. If these two questions fairly admit of an affirmative answer, then such acts constitute a Masonic
offense and it becomes the duty of this Grand Lodge to take such action as may
protect and preserve its integrity.

Let's review the history of the project as stated by Most Worshipful John
M. Kinkel of Kansas. We quote:
"This Memorial was originally to cost $100,000.00. By 1916 the Association
was committed to a Temple to cqst not less than $500,000.00.
"In 1920 this was increased to $1,000,000.00, and later to $2,200,000.00.
"The report now is that there is invested in the Temple approximately
$3,500,000.00.
"Finally, it is estimated that the Temple will cost $4,000,000.00, to which
should be added an endowment fund of $1,500,000.00, making the total cost
$5,500,000.00."
When it is remembered that the Masons of America have subscribed and
. paid in something like forty times the original estimated cost of the project,
by no source of reasoning or imagination can it be truthfully said that the
project's present deplorable status is chargeable to lack· of stamina or dependableness of American Masonry.

672

Utah (1936):
(Chairman ·Correspondence Committee): Lodges do peculiar things sometimes. The Grand Master (Ohio) reported the case in which a member, who
was serving a sentence of from one to ten years in prison for embezzlement,
and who upon trial being had in his Lodge was suspended for one year. The
Grand Master ordered that the case be reopened, which was done and a verdict
of indefinite suspension was returned. Again the case was reopened by order
of the Grand Master and a District Lecturer, sent to preside at the trial, which
resulted in expulsion. This case is not unique. About every year since we have
been preparing these reports, we have met with similar actions in one or another
Grand Jurisdiction. Ohio seems to have been unfortunate in this respect, as
two other cases were reported.

THE MONUMENT ON SHOOTER'S HILL
While it is to be regretted that this work is in such an unfinished
condition, and the prospects for its ultimate completion are none too bright,
the parties having the matter in hand did adopt the wise policy of not
contracting for any work until the necessary funds were on hand to pay
for it. The project will undoubtedly be affected by the death of Col. Louis
A. Watres, who was the President and guiding spirit of the Association.
We can not change from our former opinion that it would have been
better if the original idea of a small Memorial had been followed. Also
that it would have been a greater memorial to Washington if the amounts
collected had been used for some living monument instead of one of stone.
Florida (1937):
(Chnirman Correspondence Committee) : The Deputy Grand Master of
New York said that the uncompleted condition of the George Washington
Masonic National Memorial, as it now stands, "is a blot on the escutcheon of
Freemasonry in this country."
Brother Klinck (New York) certainly did not weigh his words when
he made the above statement. The history of the Washington Memorial and
the many times over-subscription of the original estimat.!d cost of the project,
does not warrant such an indictment of American Freemasonry;

• • • •

The Grand Master ( New Mexico) said in his Address:
"May I at this time inject the statement that it was pleasing to your Grand
Master on the occasion of the meeting of the George Washington Masonic
National Memorial · Association at Alexandria, Virginia, on February 22, to
hear the name of New Mexico included in a list of not more than ten Grand
Jurisdictions, which had met all their obligations in connection with that great
Masonic undertaking."
The Grand Master did not favor us with the list "of not more than ten
Crand Jurisdictions, which had met all their obligations in connection with
that great Masonic undertaking."
We feel safe in assuming, however, that the list included only those Grand
Jurisdictions which subscribed to the additional seventy cents, and have paid it,
tngether with the original $1.00 subscription.
Many Grand Lodges, too, have paid their $1.00 subscription in full, some
of them considerably more, and if they were not included in the list Brother
PerrY speaks of, then it is an affront to each and e·1ery one of them, and the
Association is due each one of them an apology.
Florida subscribed to the original $1.00 per capita subscription and has
considerably over paid it, but did not subscribe to the additional seventy cents.
Maine (1937);
(Grand Master): During the years 1934 and 1935 very ijttle wo rk was done
to complete the Memorial because of sufficient funds not being received from
the sponsoring Grand Lodges.
·
During the past year· that part known as Memorial Hall has been nearly
completed at an expenditure of approximately $65,000. A great statue of
Washington and mural paintings on the walls being all that is lacking to make
this part of the Memorial finished. Unfinished parts of the Memorial are an
Assembly Hall on the ground floor, the S ta te Memorial room on the fourth
floor, the Library on the sixth floor, and the Museum on the eighth. The third,
fif th and seventh floors are mezzanine. The ninth floor is the observatory.
At the date o<f the annual meeting of the association a total of contributions received was $4,030,647.45. Of said amount the sponsoring Grand Lodges
have contributed $3,673,502.58, and other organizations of Masons, together
with organizations having a membership based on Masonic affiliation have contributed $355,144.87.
The original plan of 'financing the Memorial was a voluntary contribution
of one dollar by every Mason on the membership rolls of the sponsoring Grand

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

674

675

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodges, and on this basis thirty-six of the Grand Lodges have met their
obligation. To complete the Memorial it is estimated that subscriptions amounting to $500,000.00 must be had.
North Dakota (1936):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Anent the Washington Memorial,
the Grand Master of Missouri says :
"It is unfortunate that so much money has been expended on the erection
of this shrine to ·contain relics and mementoes of the great Washington and
then to know that the aforesaid relics and mementoes are still contained in an
cld, unkept and nonfireproqf building. The. Masons of the United States are
entitled to know whether the officers and members of Alexandria Washington
Lodge are complying with the spirit of their agreement to deposit these relics
in the Memorial Building, or are the relics being withheld so as to force the
Memorial Association into the donation of a free .Lodge room."
We confess to having heard similar complaints before but the fact of the
matter is that the memorial is in no shape to receive these priceless relics. The
replica room thus far consists of nothing but rough bare walls and an unfinished
concrete sub-floor and in no condition to receive anything even less valuable.
The fault is not that of Washington-Alexandria Lodge but of the Masons of
America in either planning too ambitiously or in not completing what they set
out to do. On our visit at Alexandria last February, we were assured that the
Lodge there was anxious to move the memorabilia at the earliest possible
moment. Surely the relics should be moved quickly from the fire-trap in which
they are now housed.

:Zl and 30 were former Members and 43% of all the Members were former
De Molays. These figures were the average also in other places.
'
President Coolidge said that it was alright to let Nature take its course
but there was no law, human or Divine, that prevented any one ~rom assisting Nature. Solicitation in Masonry is prohibited but an active, sympathetic interest in Young Men and their Organizations rather than aloofness
or opposition would produce results. From experience this does not mean
"maybe."
Alberta (1937):
(Grand Master): There is a noticeable lack of applications from younger
men. One thing impressed me, that is in the larger centers Freemasonry is not
getting its "batting average" of younger men who have been fortunate enough
to establish security of position. This it seems to me calls for serious thought
and has raised in my mind several questions :
Has Freemasonry lost its appeal to the rising generation? Amid alf the
materialism of this age, the desire to possess without earning, the growing neglect
of the old conception of God and religion, idealism has not died out, and it is this
characteristic in the human mind upon which the seed of Freemasonry may be
sown and bear fruit. Many a mistake was made in the boom days and we are
still suffering from the consequences. An art that is founded on the operative
philosophy of men who spread cathedrals like brown lace across western Europe,
adorning them with stained glass, which stole brilliance from the sunlight, as
an expression of that philosophy and their own ideals, which meant more to
them than any material reward, should never lose its appeal.

South Carolina (1936):
(Committee on George Washington Memorial): There it is, unfinished.
During the year they tell us that over 150,000 people registered as visitors.
What was their impression? What story did this unfinished Memorial, with no
work having been done on it for over three years, tell? Simply this-Three
million men who call themselves Masons undertook a great task and they
cannot see it through; that Freemasonry in this country is not what some people
thought it was; that after all it must not amount to so much. That is the only
story that a lot of dust, dirt, loose slabs of marble and granite columns wrapped
around with paper covered with dust and doors warped and weather beaten
could tell. Like it or not, approve of its having been undertaken or not, it is
saying more and more in louder tones than all the voices of the three million
Masons of 'the United States.
·
.
I am informed that an organization, which I need not name, has been using
this unfinished Memorial as a basis for belittling and criticising Freemasonry
i~ Washington and Alexandria; that they are holding up to the people this
Memorial that we started and could not finish.

Arizona (1936):
(Grand Orator): Fifty years ago, and even twenty-five, the fraternal
society was the only group outside the church that brought men together and
offered the contacts that today are provided by an increasing number of societies
and the great group of service clubs that hold weekly meetings.
What are we doing to justify our existence today and to perpetuate our
order for tomorrow? It is only a few years before we who are here are going
to turn over the reins of our society, our community and our government to a
generation that is already crowding us close to hold our place. What are we
doing t:i lead the way ?
A ·few years ago some of our far-sighted brethren organized the order of
DeMolay, a wonderful work, pushed along by a handful. of our ~embers who
give of their time to the guidance of the boys who will be domg our work
tomorrow. The Boy Scouts, another great institution which takes boys at an
e'arly age, and endeavors to build characte.r into them. Some of us serve by
giving cur money to such work, some by giving our time and ourselves, some
by doing· both, and more are needed.

THEY MUST CARRY THE TORCH

Georgia (1935):
(Grand Master): The Grand Master ear~estly rec?m~ended "that all
members of the fraternity acquaint themselves with the prmc1ples and purposes
of DeMolay, and give their encouragement and aid in the upbuilding of young
American manhood and citizenship."

It is too often manifested that this is the day of the Young Man. It
does not appear to be so however in Masonry, nor do they realize it if
conditions, actions and statistics can be accepted. The Grand Council of
the Order of De Molay made a survey in this connection. In a large
Jurisdiction found in three Lodges the following: Ages 21-27, 27 Members;
Ages 30-49, 420 Members; Age over 50 years, 225 Members. In as large
another Jurisdiction they found that in one large Lodge that 82.5% of
those between 21 and 25 were formerly De Molays; 66.6% of all between

Michigan (1936):
(Grand Master): The Grand Lodge voted to. accept, for immediate effect,
the sponsorship of the Order of DeMolay, and will lend such moral and financial support to the program of DeMolay as seems proper and worthy.

676

l>lWCEEDINGS OF THE:

Montana (1936):
(Grand Master): There has existed and now exists, and probably always
will exist, among the brethren a diversity of opinion as to the value of the
Order of DeMolay and the Order of Rainbow for Girls. Many of the brethren
conscientiously feel that the support of these organizations is no function of
Masonry. Many others ardently believe that the active support of such organizations by Masonry is in accord with true Masonic teachings and principles
and should be encouraged.
I am of the belief that these organizations are rendering great service to
boys and girls approaching manhood and womanhood. They give a properly
directed outlet for the energies of these youthful citizens and inculcate in their
minds impressive lessons and high ideals. Through such organizations we are
assisting in the building of a greater citizenship which will result in great
benefit to our country and to our fraternity. It is my opinion that these organizations should be encouraged to the fullest extent by our fraternity.
Ohio (1936):
(Grand Master): In my Address as Deputy Grand Master, I asked this
question, "Is this national holiday, Washington's Birthday, not our opportunity
as a Fraternity to interest our sons in our Fraternity." This question has been
answered, my Brethren, as evidenced by more than one hundred letters that
have come to my office enthusiastically endorsing this program and expressing
a desire for its future continuance.
Shortly after returning to Dayton, a Masonic publication was handed to
me containing an article by a noted Masonic writer who stated, "It is a fact we
cannot deny that the thoughts of the younger generation are not toward
Freemasonry." At whose door may we lay this blame? Of course, there is only
one answer to this last question. Dad, father, the guardian of the moral and
character-building activities of his son. To me, this statement was a challenge
which I was willing to accept. May I quote at random some of the interesting
things that have been written to my office regarding this outstanding program.
One Master has said: "Judging from our experience the Lodge considers
'
this a worthy program for the future."
Another has stated, "Many Brethren were pr;sent who had not attended a
Lodge meeting for. several years."
A Secretary writes me, "Our father-and-son evening was a grand success
with an attendance of 230. This represents the largest gathering of our membership in many years."
Another Lodge informs me that 650 tickets were sold being the capacity
of their cathedral and banquet room.
'
A t~legram, "FRATERNAL GREETINGS FROM 250 FATHERS AND
SONS OF
LODGE, NO.
"
Another Master writes, "Father-and-Son Meeting a ten-strike."
Another Master states, "The Father-and-Son Meeting was 'THE HIGH
LIGHT' of our Masonic program for 1936."
The response on the part of Subordinate Lodges was beyond. my fondest
expectation. In my own City of Dayton 1,545 fathers and sons filled our banquet
hall, and a larger number were present for the entertaiument in the Scottish
Rite Cathedral.
To me, one of the outstanding reports came from a small Lodge in Ohio.
Their attendance was good, and enthusiasm was grea•, but above all, the
Master stated that among their guests were ten sons of deceased Brethren. Sons
of Masons, if you please, whose fathers had answered the last call. What a
fine memorial this program was for their Dad. Their Dad had not become one
of "the forgotten men" of Masonry.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

677

My Brethren, is this not opportunity knocking at the door of the l,odiea
of this Grand Jurisdiction to interest themselves in the youth of Ohio I
We have been inspired by the number of petitions that have been preeented
by Dad. It seems as though in many cases son has led the way. What a privilere
for a son to bring in his father's petition!
It is my fervent hope that Grand Masters, yet to come, will continue to urge
our Lodges, if urging is necessary, to observe Father-and-Son night.
Oklahoma (1935):
(Grand Master): A resolution to appoint a committee to investigate and
determine how the Fraternity might reach into the ranks of the Youth of
Oklahoma and cooperate with it, in no wise limiting itself to the O'rder of
DeMolay, was not approved by the Grand Lodge.
Oklahoma (1936):
(Grand Master): "RESOLVED, that the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma does
authorize, warrant and encourage Constituent Lodges and their members
throughout this Jurisdiction to sponso~ Chapters ~f t~e Order <:f DeMolay,
and to lend their active moral support m the orgamzation and maintenance of
Chapters in the State of Oklahoma ... and that thi~ be the sen~ime,~t of the
Grand Lodge with reference to the Order of the Rambow for Girls.
Rhode Island (1935):
(Grand Master): Primarily, Masonry needs leadership. The selection of the
proper timber from which to make a Master is of highest importance to every
LOdge and to which altogether too little attention is given. A large percentage
of our Lodges are in line. In one of those Lodges a young man was asked by
the brother who expected to be elected Master if he would accept a place
in line. He answered the question with an emphatic "No" and was requested to
see the "Old Man" as the Master of that Lodge was affectionately called. He
went to see the Past Master in question, and, in response to his inquiry, he was
told that the lOOth anniversary of the Lodge would occur in seven years and
he was being selected to be the Master of the Lodge on that occasion. That
is the type of Advisory Committee that is needed in our Lodges to look forward even for a period of years to insure the leadership that the Lodge needs
for best serving its membership and the Craft as a whole.
South Dakota (1937):
(Grand Master): Realizing that the average young man that is raised to
the sublime degree of a Master Mason is a high school graduate, or better,
and recognizing in him the thorough training he has had in memorizing, no time
should be lost in placing such material in office and endeavor to secure as much
"Ritualistic Proficiency" as possible from them in the first few years of their
services. Under a special urge the average graduate from our high schools will
memorize our ritual in a single year. However, this should not be expected of
him.
Follow the simple rule of filling the Junior Steward's place with these capable young men, and thereafter keep plenty of work for them to do; urge them
to progress, and if they will not, take them out of the line, for they are not only
a bad example for those to follow, but a hindrance to those whom they are
working with. The bees do not permit the drones to remain in the hives and
consume that which they did not produce, nor should a laggard, lounger, or a
· listless idler be left in the official lines of "Ritualistic Proficiency" in our
Constituent Lodges.
If this "Ritualistie Proficiency Program" is consistently carried on for
seven years, giving the Junior Steward of seven years ago an opportunity to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

678

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

develop, and if he does, you would not think of discontinuing him in office; he
will have entered the Master's chair in his seventh year, a well rounded out
r:tuaUst. This should be true of him even as he enters the Senior Warden's
station. And as a Senior Warden he should have been in charge of all ritualistic plans and programs concerning the ritual; so that when he enters the
Master's station, his work in ritualism should all be laid over on his Senior
Warden's shoulders. His duties are to set the craft at work and give ·them
rroper instructions, and have general supervision over his Lodge.
Utah (1936):
(Chairman Con·espondence Committee): Grand Master Purnell (Dela~
ware) indulged in some observations on "Religion," "Our Country'' and the
"Craft." For one we wish that the young men-college and university students,
who have recently taken oath not to bear arms for their country-not even in
it• defense should it be invaded-might take to heart certain of the sentiments
gathered under the second of these headings. We are sufficiently radical to say,
that in our opinion, when men, young or old, reach the point where they
voluntarily make oath that they will not defend their country, even when invaded by an enemy, they are not worthy of the protection and liberty and
opportunities for securing an education which this country affords them, and
that they are more dangerous to our institutions than are the organized red
radicals, who seek the overthrow of our government. While accepting the
gifts, they would smite the benefactor who provides them with all that makes
life worth the living. They place themselves in the position of those who would
slink out of harm's way while accepting the benefits of others' sacrifices. A
fine type of manhood is that !
BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS
Under this caption we embody the comments and criticisms of the
various Foreign Correspondents as far as published proceedings of our
8Sth, 86th and 87th annual communications.
These are only from the Reports received since the Grand Lodge
decided to again publish the work of the Committee on Correspondence
and necessarily omits those comments in the Proceedings received during
the years 1934, 1935 and 1936. Generally they were of the same tenor as
those hereinafter quoted.
Practically all of them noted with regret the absence of the Report
of the Correspondence Committee, as well as looking with favor upon the
actions of our Grand Lodge during the years above mentioned.
It should be a source of satisfaction to those who have served the
Grand Lodge of California to know that their efforts are looked upon with
favor by the various Reviewers, who are experts conversant with opinions
throughout the Masonic world. While there has been differences of
opinion and criticism, these have been handled from a broad Masonic viewpoint.
85th Annual Communication, October 9-12, 1934
San Francisco, California
James B. Gist, Grand Master
Illinois:
At the afternoon session a beautiful and instructive oration was delivered by Worshipful Brother Reynold E. Blight.
For reasons of economy no general review of the proceedings of
foreign Grand Lodges was prepared and printed. with the proceedings.
Right Worshipful Brother Joseph E. Morcombe, however, furnished a brief

679

and instructive epitome of the various questions which have been occupyingthe attention of Grand Lodges throughout the world.
The report of the committee on the observance of public schools week
indicates that the fifteenth annual observance of public schools week was
more successful and more generally participated in by Lodges and civic
organizations co'operating with Lodges than at any previous annual observance of these programs.
Right Worshipful Brother Ira F. Thompson delivered an earnest and
interesting oration which was well received.
We regret that we do not find a copy of the report on foreign correspondence.
Ohio:
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence by Bro. Jesse M.
Whited is published as a separately bound volume. It is a worth while and
valuable production of reviews and quotations of well selected and interesting topics.
West Virginia:
The liquor question received consideration in keeping wit·h Ma:sonic
tenets.
Grand Lecturer Foster G. Dyer, appointed as the successor to Past
Grand Lecturet Thomas J. Baker, who had served as such more than a
quarter of a century, furnished a good report of Masonic activities during
the five months preceding.
Brother Reynold E . Blight delivered a highly interesting oration, full
of meat.
There was no review of proceedings of sister Grand Lodges, not even
a topical review.
Canada (1934):
The veteran Secretary presents an interesting report.
The Grand Master made an able and comprehensive address.
The Grand Master's words are interesting throughout.
We miss the Fraternal Correspondence by Brother Whited, who
had made a name second to none of the colleagues of the Round Table.
From the invocation and devotional service of Grand Chaplain Shaw
we made the following worthy excerpts.
The Grand Master eulogized the continuance of public schools week.
The annual oration was given by Ira F. Thompson who said words
of wisdom.
The relationship of children to friends and relatives is discussed and
responsibilities of Lodges are brought home to each.
What is the trouble between the powers-that-be in California and their
former ideal Reviewer, who was a leader in the Correspondence circle of
all Jurisdictions?
86th Annual Communication, October 8-11, 1935
San Francisco, California
Randolph V. Whiting, Grand Master

Illinois:
The custom of Lodges to observe Public Schools Week, inaugurated
in 1921, has continued to grow in importance and popularity.
We would, if space permitted, be glad to quote in full the report of
the Grand Master ori supversive organizations, such as Communism. His

681

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND J.OPGE OF CAI 'IJl'OJINIA

discussion on the subject is masterful and must appeal to the good sense
and patriotism of !!Very true American, and his scathing denunciation of
the activities of this particular organization is well worth perusal.
The Grand Master also gives a masterful discussion of lawlessness and
disorder, resulting in lynchings and other outrages, resulting from indignation against certain dastardly crimes.
This. a?dress of the Grand Master is a stirring, earnest, thoughtful
and patriotic document, and is one of the most admirable we have had the
pleasure of reading for a long time.

North Carolina:
California Masonry does much good to the cause of public education
by its annual observance of Public Schools Week, which is well nigh a
universal observance there. We could wish that there might be such in
equally effective manner in other states. Perhaps if we had it in North
Carolina, the ranking of our school system here would be nearer what
California ranks in public education among the states, and not so near
the absolute bottom among them all.
There is a very interesting report concerning clandestine Masonry in
California, by a special committee appointed to investigate such.

680

Iowa:
In the opening devotional service the Reverend Herbert P. Shaw,
Grand Chaplain, offered much that was well worth while.
The address of the Grand Master is notable for its excellent composition, its arrangement and for its complete coverage of what the Craft
should know.
All good Masons are deeply interested in what makes for better moral
and educational standards and what the Grand Master says on "Public
Schools Week" is appealing.
The financial report indicates a sound situation ·and good business
management.
The Grand Lecturer, under the head of "Funerals,'' says a particularly
good thing.
·
It is a matter of regret that lack of space forbids presenting in full the
annual oration of Brother Ira F. Thompson. It cannbt be quoted in part.
It must be read in its entirety to appreciate the fine philosophy, the scholarly
diction and the beautiful use of chaste language. Let it be hoped that many
may have the rare privilege of reading it.
All other reports are in detail and are most illuminating.
Marked com~liment is due to the Grand Secretary, Brother Whicher,
who no doubt did the work, for the fullness, the arrangement -and the
general excellence of the Proceedings.
Kentucky:
Brother Ira F. Thompson delivered the annual oration and it was a
splendid work, full of wisdom and beauty.
New Hampshire:
Since 1921 they have been observing Public Schools Weeks, with this
year 'about the best of them all. Public schools out th.ere in this way have
Masons solidly behind them.
Objectionable activities by men who are Master Masons are not condoned in the Grand Master's address, rather they are given a right-handed
blow.
Their Masonic History is still unpublished with something of hope that
it may be issued at an early date.
It was necessary to hold twenty-three trials. That is the worst news
coming out of California this year.
To keep things going at full speed 116 special dispensations were
granted. One of these was to increase the fee, three were to increase Lodge
dues. There's courage for you in these four instances.
TI:ie Committee on Education did no special work, save only to attempt
to devise new plans.
•

North Dakota:
Public Schools Week, established by the Grand Lodge fifteen years ago,
continues to grow in popularity and importance. This is. one of the most
important works of the California brethren and is attracting notice through
the nation.
Under the head of "Objectionable Activities," the Grand Master referring to state-wide lotteries, recommended the passage of legislation placing
any such organization which would offend in the future, under the ban.
The recommendation was referred to a committee which apparently sidestepped the issue by forgetting to report.
This is the second time in the past three years that the Grand Lodge
has failed to come up to the mark in this matter and the trouble will probably continue until such time as they are aroused to positive action to
protect the 'good name of Masonry. Following the lead of Illinois will
clean a stable anywhere. At Washington in February, the present Grand
Master announced that he was going home with a lot more backbone than
he brought with him. We will watch with interest the appearance of next
year's proceedings.
West Virginia:
Grand Master Whiting delivered an able address.
Brother Ira F. Thompson delivered the annual oration which was of
commendable brevity, full of good sense and . calculated to assist without
burdening.
We find a good report of the Committee on Public Schools Week.
87th Annual Communication, October 13-16, 1936
San Francisco, California
Earl Warren, Grand Master
Alberta:
To be Grand Master of California is to assume a tremendous burden.
M. W. Brother Warren seems to have done a good job of it.
Speaking of "Our Country" anyone is always excused for waxing
enthusiastic. So the Grand Master shall not be overly questioned on his
remark: about "the government which has brought more opportunity and
happiness to the under-privileged of the world than all others combined."
Anyway, who should ever be weary in well doing?
Every trustee board committed with the responsibility of administering
investment funds will sympathize with California when they finally waived
their rights and handed over to the New York investment service (for a fee)
the responsibility of making and changing Investments.
Clandestine Masonry pervades California, more so than anywhere else
we believe. Returning prosperity has caused the weeds in the garden of

682

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

human relations to grow again, and so the Clandestines, Mexicano, Filipino,
Negro, Co-Masonic (female) and White varieties, are all included in the
report on ·that subject.
Connecticut:
The report of Grand Master Earl Warren was very concise and clear.
Manitoba:
' '
The Grand Master's message is a splendid summary of the faithful
and efficient manner in which he has ·performed the difficult and arduous
duties of this office.
The report of the Committee on Clandestine Masonry in this Grand
Jurisdiction makes very interesting reading.
Minnesota:
The Grand Master's message was a plain, concise statement of what he
had found and endeavored to do during his year.
The annual oration was delivered by Brother Albert F. Ross, Grand
Orator. It was a learned address.·
The 17th annual observance of Public Schools Week was a repetition
of the success of previous observances in prior years.
An interesting and valuable report was given by the Committee on
Clandestine Masonry. ·
Nevada:
M. W. Grand Master Warren reports that peace and harmony prevail.
His well deserved tribute to their Grand Secretary, Brother Whicher, is
endorsed by all who have ever come in contact with this distinguished
Mason.
·
An interesting item to all who have enjoyed Brother Whited's Reviews:
On recommendation of the Grand Master and approval of Grand Lodge
the Reviews will again be printed in their Proceedings.
Another interesting recommendation of M. W. Brother Warren which
was adopted unanimously by Grand Lodge was on the subject of "Lotteries and Gambling."
This program of Public Schools Week in this Jurisdiction, is apparently
working out very satisfactorily.
The benevolent work of the Relief Boards and Masonic Homes must
of necessity occupy a large portion of the Proceedings. California deserves
much credit for the work they carry on along these lines.
We will look forward to the Review in their next volume of Proceedings.
New Mexico:
Thirty-two Masonic trials were held-a large number until you realize
that the membership of California numbers 127,728 Masons. No names of
members tried appear, only the number of the case. California sets an
example, in this, all Jurisdictions should follow.
South Carolina:
Public Schools Week, inaugurated by Grand Master Charles Albert
Adams in 1921, has continued to grow in importance and popularity.
Brother Ira F. Thompson delivered a very interesting oration.
It is difficult for us in South Carolina to conceive of situations such as
evidently exist in California and in other Jurisdictions because of men of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

6S3

foreign birth. We have less than one-ha:lf of one per cent foreign-born
here. Perhaps we are peculiarly blessed. We think so.
Utah:
With the transaction recorded in this volume, we are on familiar
ground. In company with our Grand Master, Most Worshipful C. H.
Fischer, we attended every session of the first three days of. this Communication. The four days spent in the city of the Golden Gate were so
crowded with interesting events that we can only touch here and there on
the many matters that especially appealed to us.
Tuesday morning we were present at the opening of Grand Lodge,
and we must confess that never before had we been present at any Grand
Lodge Communication where such a large amount of business was transacted.
The Committee on the 17th Annual Observance of Public Schools
Week presented a most ii~teresting and valuable report on the good work
being done by the Grand Lodge of California. We have frequently expressed the conviction that this is one line of far-reaching activity that
deserves both commendation and emulation. And we have been pleased
to note that some other Grand Jurisdictions have adopted similar plans.
Quebec:
It is pleasing to note that the recommendation of the Grand Master
was approved and provision made in the appropriations to cover the expense
of preparing and printing a review of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges.
Very interesting statistical statements are given showing all the details
of operation and the cost of the two Masonic Homes.
The report of the Committee on Clandestine Masonry is a lengthy but
interesting one.
Washington:
One wonders, after reading these proceedings, whether to devote the
entire space alloted to us to a description of their Public Schools Week or
to comment on their Masonic Home Work. Either of them is sufficient
for an extended article.
The Grand Master made many decisions; some of them very interesting.
We regret th.at space will not permit a discussion of them.
California Masons are doing big things in a big way.
Wisconsin:
The address of the Grand Master shows a year of pleasing and constructive work.
The report of the Grand Secretary, John Whicher, is an excellent one
giving no indication of the fact that he is eighty-one years old. Surely hi~
mental vigor is unimpaired.
We are happy to note that it was voted to prepare and publish a report
on Foreign Correspondence and we will look forward with pleasurable
anticipation to next year's report.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

684

APPENDIX
ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS-MONTH OF MEETING
January-Minnesota, Tennessee, Philippine Islands.
February-Connecticut, Kansas, L·ouisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma,
Virginia, Quebec, Scotland.
March-Arizona, Cuba, New Mexico, South Carolina.
April-Florida, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Australia, Mexico
(York), Porto Rico.
·
May--;-lndiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode
Island, New Zealand, Western Australia.
June-Iowa, Nebraska, Nevada, New Sout11- Wales, North Dakota,
Oregon, South Dakota, Vermont, Washington, Wisconsin, Alberta, British
Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan,
Queensland.
July-Canada.
August-Montana, Wyoming, New Brunswick.
September-Colorado, Idaho, Missouri, Utah.
October-California, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois Kentucky Ohio West
Virginia.
'
'
'
November-Arkansas, Maryland.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Texas, Tasmania, Ireland.

MASONIC CALENDAR
Ancient Craft Masons-Commence their era with the creation of the
world, calling it Anno Lucis (A. L.), "in the year of light."
Add 4000 years to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 4000-5923.
Scottish Rite-Sarne as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish chronology
is used. Anno Mundi (A. M.), "in the year of the world."
Add 3760 to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 3760-5683. After
September add another year.
Royal Arch Masons-Date from the year th~ second temple was commenced by Zerubbabel, Anno Inventionis. (A. Inv.), "in the year of discovery."
Add 530 years to the vulgar era. Thus: 1923 and 530-2453.
Royal and Select Masters-Date from the year in which the temple of
Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.), "in the year of the
deposit."
Add 1000 to the common time. Thus: 1923 and 1000-2923.
Knights Templar-Commence their era with the organization of their
Order. Anno Ordinis (A. 0.), "in the year of the Order."
From the Christian era take 1118. Thus: 1118 from 1923---805.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

685

Order of High Priesthood-Dates from the year of the blessing of
Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Anno Benedictionis (A. B.),
"in the year of the blessing."
To the Christian era add 1913, the year of blessing. Thus: 1923 and
l 9 l 3-'-3836.
AMERICAN GRAND BODIES
General Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons-Mattison Boyd Jones,
General Grand High Priest, Los Angeles, Calif.; Charles A. Conover, General Grand Secretary, Coldwater Mich.; 43rd Triennial Convocation; Chapters 3,639, Membership 608,599.
Grand Chapter of California-Delos A. Mace, Grand High Priest, Eureka; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Secretary, San Francisco; 84th Annual
Convocation, Santa Monica, April 15-16, 1938. Chapters 125, Membership
19,098.
General Grand Council, Royal and Select Masters-Nels on Williams,
General Grand Master, Hamilton, Ohio; 0. Frank Hart, General Grand
Recorder, Columbia, S. C.; 20th Triennial Assembly. Councils 1,403, Membership 223,552.
Grand Council of California-Walter E. Bonnett, Grand Master,
Fresno; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder, San Francisco; 78th Annual
Assembly, Santa Monica, April 14, 1938. Councils 32, Membership 5,841.
Grand Encampment of Knights Templar (U. S. A.)--Mark Norris,
M. E. Grand Master, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Adrian Hamersly, R. E. Grand
Recorder, Indianapolis, Ind.; 4lst Triennial Conclave. Commanderies 1,659,
Membership 295,778.
Grand Commandery of California-Oakley K. Morton, R. E. Grand
Commander, Riverside; Thomas A. Davies, E. Grand Recorder, San Francisco; 80th Annual Conclave, Santa Monica, April 18, 1938. Comrltanderies
65, Membership 10,748.
Supreme Council, A. F. & A. S. R. (Southern Jurisdiction)-John H.
Cowles, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander, Washington, D. C.; Walter R.
Reed, 33°, Secre.tary-General, Washington, D. C. Meets 1biennially, third
Monday in October, Washington, D. C.
No.
Membership
Lodge of Per'fection..............-·········-·····-···· . 190 ........................................ 194,515
Chapters -····························•··························· 171 ........................................ 179,934
Councils .......................................................,... 149 ..•..................................... 173,352
Consistories .................................- ............... 141 .............................,.......... 171,966
Knights Commander Court of Honor..........y............................................ 3,159
Thirty-Third Degree Masons................................;..............................-.... 2,143
William Parker Filmet, 33°, Sovereign Grand Inspector General for California, San Francisco,' Calif.
No.
Membership
Lodge Perfection .......................................... 14 ......................................... 25,983
Chapters .........................................................,.. 14 ........................................ 23,266
Councils .........~...................................,............... 13 ........................................ 22,366
Consistories .......•..........................,................... 13 ........................................ 22,090
Knights Commander Court of Honor........................................................
312
Thirty-Third Degree Masons.................................................................:........
177

686

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

(Northern Jurisdiction)-Melvin M. Johnson, 33°, Sovereign Grand
Commander, Boston, Mass.; Charles H. Spillman, 33°, Secretary-General,
Boston, Mass. Meets annually third Tuesday in September.
No.
Membership
Lodge of Perfection ···-······························· 106 ........................................ 229,827
Councils ..........................................•............... 92 ·········-·············-·············· 221,887
Chapters ··-······-······-·······························'······ 89 ........................................ 220,909
Consistories .................................................... 62 ........................................ 218,943
Active . 33° ··························································-············································
Honorary 33° ........................................•........................•..;-·············-···'········

687

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

43
1,570

AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States are generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite. Properly speaking,
they should be termed the American Rite and the Scottish Rite, for the
one called York is peculiar in its organized proceedings only to the United
States.
The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the Cryptic
and the Templar Degrees.
The Symbolic Degrees are conferred in a Lodge and are the Entered
Apprentice, the Feilow Craft and the Master Mason. They are called
Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction is by symbols.
The Capitular Degrees are conferred in a Chapter and are the Mark
Master, the Past Master, the Most Excellent Master and the Royal Arch.
The supplemental and honorary degree of High Priesthood is conferred
in a Council of Hig.h Priests upon those who have been regularly elected
to preside over a Chapter of Royal Arch Masons. They are called Capitular
because ~hey are conferred in a Chapter, the word "Capitular" meaning
"done in a Chapter."
The Cryptic Degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the Royal
Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master. They are
called "Cryptic" because the word "crypt" means a secret vault or underground passage.
The Templar Degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are the
Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name Knight Templar comes
from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take the temple at Jerusalem
. from the Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the 33rd, inclusive. In the Sou·the.rn Jurisdiction of the United States (which includes
all territory south of the Ohio River and west of the Mississippi River)
the organization of the different Bodies, and the degrees conferred by
them, are: Lodge of Perfection, 4 ° to 14 °, inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix,
15° to 18°; Council of Kadosh, 19° to 30'; Consistory, 31 • to 32°; Supreme
Council, 33 °.
In the Northern Jurisdiction (which includes all states north of the
Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River) the degrees conferred are:
Lodge of Perfection, 4° to 14°, inclusive; Council Princes of Jerusalem, 15°
and 16°; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and 18°; Consistory, 19° to 32°; Supreme
Council, 33 •.

CHAIRMEN COMMITTEES ON CORRESPONDENCE
GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M., OF CALIFORNIA

Years
L......John H. Gihon, California No. 1; 1850.
5........ Levi Stowell, California No. 1, 1851-1855.
5........ Alex G. Abell, California No. 1, 1856-1860.
L ......James L. English, Sacramento No. 40, 1861.
1...-...William C. Belcher, Corinthian No. 69, 1862.
2..... ~.. Gilbert B. Clairborne, San Joaquin No. 19, 1863-1864.
2........ Henry H. Rhees, Marysville No. 9, 1865-1866.
!........ Lawrence C. Owens, Golden Gate No. 30, 1867.
l L.....William H. Hill, Marin No. 191, 1868-1873, 1876-1882, 1884, 1887.
2........William H. January, San Jose No. 10, 1874-1875.
1........Thomas H. B. Anderson, Los Palmas No. 366, 1883.
5........James W . Anderson, Pacific No. 136, 1885-1886, 1888-1889, "1893.
L ....:.William A. Robertson, King Solomon No. 260, 1890.
l........James M. Ellis, Fidelity No. 120, 1891.
L......William H. Edwards, Pacific No. 136, 1892.
I.L,....William A . Davies, San Joaquin No. 19, 1894-1906.
l---····James B. Stevens, Yount No. 12, 1907.
L ......Alonzo J. Munroe, Humboldt No. 79, 1908.
.9..- .... Edward H. Hart, Live Oak No. 61, 1909-1917.
L .....John D. Murphey, Alta No . .333, 1918.
t.._....John Franklin West, Pasadena No. 272, 1922.
L ......James Lewis Matthews, Covina No. 334, 1925.
1.:.•....Joseph E . Morcombe, Far West No. 673, 1934.
16........J esse M. Whited, California No. 1, 1919-1921, 1923-1924, 1926-1933,
1935-1937.
GRAND LODGES, DATE OF ORGANIZATION, ANNUAL
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED
When
Organized

Alabama......................,................._....] une 14, 1821
Ari:zona...................................·-····-····Mar. 25, 1882
Arkansas..........:.................................. Nov. 21, 1838
California.................................•...- ..... April 18, 1850
Colorado.........................................;....:Atig. 2, 1800
8, ·1789
Connecticut..................,.........- ..........J uly
6, 1800
Delaware................•...........................J une
District of Columbia....................... Dec. 11, 1810
5, 1830
Florida.........~..:....... _...,..............:.__,.... ] uly
Goerj'ia.........,...........,..................•.......Dec. 16, 1786
Idah(>~...................... ~·-························Dec. 16, 1867
Illinois..........................................,......April 6, 1840
Indiana..............•1..._., ...,.............,........ Jan. 12, 1818
8, 1844
Io.wa.... . . ."_. v·---··~-"""""•····~..:........~-~ ...~•..-),an.
Kansas ................•..............,............ ~ ....Mar. 17, 1850
Kentucky................_,...................,_•...Oct. 16, 1800
L9uisiana............:.....,.....- .........r··•····J uly 12, 1812
1, 1820
Main"e!•.•......................-.;.•...•....•••;.•~....J uly
¥i;ryland .....................................- ..-.J uly 31, 1783
Massachusetts....................................] uly 30, 1733
J.f:j~higan......................................•.....• Sept. 14, 1844
MihJlesota..........................................-F e b. 24, 1853
M~~sfasippL................,..:.................... J uly 27, 1818
Missouri.............,................................. April 21, 1821

Annual
Communication

Proceedings
Reviewed

December
March
November
October
September
February
October
December
April
October
September
October.
May
June
February
October
February
May
November
December
May
January
February
September

1936
1937
1936
1936
1937
1936
1936
1937
1936
1936
1936
1937
1936
1937
1936
1937
1937
1936
1936
1937
1937
1936

688

When
Organized

~:r~~~:::::::~~:::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::§~~·t. ~j: }~~~
Nevada~,.·......•...,.........~...........•....•.....,..]an.

New Hampshire.................................July
New Jersey............ _..............•..;.........Dec.
New Mcxic'o................,.........-.•......... Aug.
New York......:...Jl ••••••••••••: .............. .... Sept.
North Carolina............ _...........•.........Jan.
North Dakoia......_.................L.....•....] une
Qbio•.............................::....__......._.......]an.
Okfahoma.:......................................... Noy.
Oregon..........., ..•,.•...1-.,y•• , .............., •••.A~.
Pennsylvania...................................... Feb.
Rhode Island..................................- .June
South Carolina.................._............... Mar.
South Dakota..................•·-···············July
Tennessee ...............~ ......~...............- Oct.
Texas................- ................................. Dec.
l,Jtah................:....................... ~........... Jan.

16, 1865
18, 1789
18, 1786
6, 1877
5, 1781
14, 1771
12, 1889
7, 1808
10, 1892
16, 1851
2, 1764
25, 1791
24, 1787
21,, 1875
14, 1813
20, 1837
16, 1872

~f;=i~:::::::::::::::::::.·.~::::~.~:::::.~:.·:~~·:: ~~~ 1~: }~~~
Washington ....................•..•........,....... Dec.
W~st Vi~ginia.................,.........•..-...-May
Wtstonsm .................:...,..............:..•... Dec.
Wyoming..........,.- ,...............,........•.... Dec.

9," 1858
11, 1865
18, 1843
15, 1874

Annual
Communication

Proceedings
Review·e d

MEMBERSHI P ST ATISTICS, UNIT E D ST ATE S, 1936-1937

August
June
June
May
April
March
May
April
June
October
February
June
December
May
March
June
January
December
September
June
February
June
October
June
August

1936
1937

(Compiled by Iowa Grand L odge Bulletin)

A.lberta...........:..............;.................- .:O'ct. · 12, 1905
British Columbia...........................,..Feb. 22, 1832
Canada...:........ ,.....................- ......- .....Oct. 10, 1855
Manltoba..........~..........................- ......May 12, 1875
New Bfunswick.......................- ........Oct. 10, 1867
Nova Scotia..-...·- ······················-······Jan. 21 1866
P rince
.
E dward I sland......................June 24,' 1875
Quebec.................................................Oct. 20, 1869
Sas~atchewan ..............................._...Aug.
9, 1906
New South Wales.............................June
1, 1888
New Zealand ...............................~.....April 30, 1890
Que~nsland .......- .....................,.........April 25, 1904
South Australia................................. April 16, 1884
Tasmania............................................June 26, 1890
Vfotoria..............~ ......: ..._ ..............,...• April 16, 1884
West Australia..................................
1899
England...........................................-.June 24, 1717
Ireland.................................................April 6, 1731
Scotla11d...............:................"- ............ Oct. 15, 1736
Belgium..............................................Feb. 25, 1832
France (Grand Orient) ........~..........Dec. 24, 1772
France (Grand Lodge) ....................
1803
Cuba......,.....•...:..... ,.....•.•.•......,.:_.. ~.....Dec.
5, 1859
Mexico (York)··························-······
1861
Philippine Islanqs.............................Dec. 19, 1912
Porto ~i~o .................•........................ Oct.
8, 1885
Pa11ama.......:....- .•.•.:.. ·-·····-~······..··············· ...., ........

1937
1936
1937
1936
1936
1937
1936
1936
1936
1937
1937
1936
1936-37

1937
1936
1937
1936

Annual
Communication

Proceedings
Reviewed

June
June
July
June
:August
June
June
February
June
July
May
June
April
June & Dec.
Q uarterly
Quarterly
Quarterly
December
February
June
January

1937

March
April
January
April

Lodges

Membership

Alabama...................................Sept. 15, 1936
Arizona.....................................Dec. 31, 1936
Arkamas............- .................... Apr. 1, 1937
Califomia....................- ...........July 31, 1936
Colorado................................... July 1, 1936
Connecticut.............................. Dec. 31 , 1936
Delaware...................................Oct. 7, 1936
Dist. of Columbia....................Sept. 30, 1936
Florida...................................... Dec. 27, 1936
Georgia ......•....•......................... Aug. 31, 1936
Idaho..........................................June 30, 1936
lllinois...................................._.June 30, 1936
Ifidiana...................... _..............Da:. 31, 1936
Iowa....................•-····-··············D~. 31, 1936
Kansas ...................................:....Dec. 31, 1936
KentuckY.................................. Aug. 31, 1936
Louisiana...........................~ ...... Dec. 31, 1936
Maine................................•........Mar. 1, 1937
Maryland........•·-··················- ··Nov. 1, 1936
Massachusetts........................-Aug. 31, 1936
Michigan,...................- ............. Dec. 31, 1936
Minnesota.................................Jan. 1, 1937
Mississippi................................Aug. 31, 1936
Misso~ri... .................................June 30, 1936
Montana....................- ..............June 30, 1936
Nebraska................................- Dec. 31, 1936
Nevada....................- ................ Apr. 15, 1937
New Hampshire..................... Apr. 15, 1937
New Jersey....•................,.........Dec. 31, 1936
New Mexico.....................:...... Dec. 31, 1936
New York,..................... _......•..Dec;. 31, 1936
North Carolina..........- ............Dec. 31, 1936
North Dakota...........................Dec. 31, 1936
Ohio..........................................July 31, 1936
Oklahoma................................. Jan. 1, 1937
Oregon...................................... Dec. 31, 1936
Pennsylvania............................ Dec. 27, 1936
Philippine Islands...................Dec. 31, 1936
Rhode Island............................ May 1, 1936
South Carolina........................ Jan. 1, 1937
South Dakota...........................June 1, 1936
Tennessee..................................Oct. 31, 1936
Texas.........................................Jul\e 24, 1936
Utah........................................... Jan. 20, 1937
Vermont....................................Apr. 30, 1936
Virgipia_.,.................................Dec. 31, 1936
Washington...............................Dec. 31, 1936
West Virginia..:......................Aug. 31, 1936
Wisconsin...:.............................Dec. 31, 1936
Wyoming., ............- ...............::.June 30, 1936

470
39
455
582
147
128
22
45
224
514
81
1,000
555
555
447
529
254
207
122
329
510
305
328
637
135
·291
26
81
278
54
1,036
347
127
623
430
173
567
102
43
268
177
421
906
26
103
338
268
165
312
48

28,184
5,635
24,002
127,728
30,144
37,187
5,625
20,410
19,945
40,771
8,891
218,069
107,738
67,675
62,552
44,189
20,947
36,832
29,856
106,850
115,268
50,339
20,649
92,026
18,078
33,180
3,080
13,456
79,790
5,833
269,096
27,088
11,858
178,464
47,711
24,574
184,423
5,224
17,043
17,189
16,048
37,023
95,163
4,552
17,584
39,856
40,459
30,035
53,125
7,806

T otal NET Decrease 66,261.

15,826

2,599,250

State

1936-37

Foreign Jurisdictions
When
Organized

689

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1936
1937
1936
1937
1937
1937
1936
1937
1937
1937
1936

Date

Increase•
or
Decrease

427
65
505*
1,598
947
1,131

109
76
355
965

244
10,400
2,559
1,381
1,268
626

560
910
750

3,484
3,808
1,235
219*
2,337
243

637
71*
163
2,730
37*
9,142

360
272
1,372*
347

440
4,406
92
419
133"'

33•
654
9,981
28
403
477
551

662
1,311
78
68,631

INDE X -1937
A

Page

Acacia Lodge, Appeal of deposed Master..----------------··--·--·--·----·--···-----··----·---· 528
Accounts-Report of Committee on..........c••••••••••••••••••- ................,........~.-- 472
Activities--Appropriation for ________ :_·--·-·-··--·--·-·-·····--·-··-·-···---·-·--·---------·-·· 493
Alphabetical list of Lod~s.........-.-.•..- •......•.•--•-·..--··:·····-··-...·'·"·-····---..~ 589
Appropriations _. _: .. . __ ......... ..... _ ..........,...... _..
___ .493 500

B
Bakersfield Board of Relief-Reinbursement to.•......•._.•....,.........-··-····•····' 497
Black, Gordon F.-Resolution to limit rental of halls....;............................. 439
Bledsoe, Benj. F.-Cornerstone laid hY-·-·---··········-·---············-·······--·-····-········· 314
Blight, Reynold E.-Grand Chaplirin1...--·········-·····---·;·-······--""·············---···· 308
Devotional service .................,............................................................-·-······ 308
Board of Control-Report of•..:...:._.,_•..:.._..__ ,~·-··-·····'. .........,..-;...;...,...'......•:..:._ 503
Boards of Relief-Reimbursements to.·-····--··-·······--·-·-----..····•-··-···---··--;.. _ 497
Brown, Merwin H.-Distinguished visitor.·-····--·-···········-····--······-·····-·-,········· JO~
Budget for Njg______..................................- ........: .................:.........:.-.•.....••500, 501
By-Laws-Amendments reported ··-···----···--·-··-·--····---·--·········-··-····-·-··--·-·-··--···· 320
Report of Committee....._..................................................... ~---·--·--·-···-···· 472

c
Canby's Cross Lodge-Name changed to Canby Cross..................- .......... 502
Charters-Report of Committee .........._......- ...- ...~ ........................................... 502
Chowchilla Lodge-Unpaid loan................................-.-.'-·······+-•-.................. 496
Cland~stine Masonry-Report of Committee..................---····--···-·--·- 472

Cleveland, Leroy C.-Grand Treasurer...............................-·-·····-................ 308
Committees of (;rand ~ge, ........-·:·•"········:······--·-·v-··--·--·~·-···"--""..-. 566
Conference of Grand :..fo~tt"rs ..... _
- -· - - _...... - ~ .... -- .. . - . __
. - 316
Constitutional Amendments-Sec. 27 (adopted) .....:.;........;..- .......,439, 518, 528
Sec. 37-E (Lost) . . . ,
.. . . __ ..••.... - . - _
47.2. 525
472_ 525
Sec. 37-K (Lost) .....
Sec. 38 (Adopted) ·-----~---··························"'-·-······---·--·~····-··--··-·-··-···•..• 523
... _..•.....AJ;', 522
Sec. 42 (Adopted)
............ ··-- -139, 518
Sec. 87 (Adopted)
Sec. 90 (Adopted) ·····-··-······-'····--···························'···-·'-······-·~·.,.··----·····..,... 518

INDEX

ii

Page
Sec. 128 (Adopted) ·······:··································-·········································· 523
Sec. 129 (Adopted) --'-r-~··•-.............L:........:.._,._••:.......:.••,...•...=..••••••••, ••••••••••439, 522
Sec. 129-A (Lost) ..,..,...•..•....•..,.;;..,•....~- ..;..•.....•.1•••••••••••••••,.-••• ,.-•.440', 491, 524

INDEX

iii

G

Page

Gehrke, H. H.-Resolution to amend Section 87.............~ .............., .....439, 518

Sec. 134 (Adopted) ·······················--····································-························· 523

Grand Lecturer-Annual report...·--························-·······-···'"-·--·..--··•....... 333
Changes in Monitor.................................................................·.······•····'·········· 492

Sec. 163 (Adopted) ··············································-································-··· 519
Constitution of the United States-Address on...•...,.........................-•....:... 441 .

Cornerstone, laid by..................................................•··-········'"·•···········•·····- 314
Report of Committee on report of......-................................,....~.;,..:;.....:;_; 471

Grand Master's comments on.......•:.'..•.•·-··-·-····~..:.•..•.....••·-······•··•·······- 319
Cooper, Charles R.-Resolutions ·by ........................437, 439, 494, 518, 522, 528
Correspondence Committee-Appropriation for .....................•...................... 498

Resolution to revert to old s.ystem...........:...............:..........:............:._......~... 440
Grand Master of Arizona-visitor ...................................................................... 308
Grand Master of Nevada-visitor...................................................................... 308

Credentials--'Report of Committee Qn .......: .•..:;.•....•;.....•.:..·-···········--··········· 531

Grand Master-Annual Message.-........... :.....•.•....._..................:.....................~ 313
Appropriation for portr;i.it....:..- .....•.....•............•..- ...···--···········;....- ....;.•-~ 499
Condition of the craft.,:,...:..:....-...........:...:..-.••...'...-.:...._......,,...,......,.....•.:.~ .....,,:. 313

D
Devotional Service ····-·············•···········································~···············•············· 308

Conference of Grand M~ster.s.... _....................................~ ..•....,.. _.....;..,_,. 316
Consolidation of !.Qdges..................................,......................,................._ 318

Drytown Lodge-Unpaid loan ······--·-·······························-······························ 496
Dues-Remission of aged ntembe1]··-··--·-··'""'·.,.......:.:.•...:...;•.•.'.-··.--··········~- 523

Constitution of the United S~;i.tca..••..•.....,....- ..............,...................,•..,.. 319
Correction of Section 27..•...•.................................:...................................., 320

E
Eddy, J. W.-To amend Sec. 129-A.............................,......................446, 491, 524

Dispensations granted ···········-································································'···· 319
Endowment Board-Commendation of--·-···-·····--····,_....,_,......- ...-..... 317
Flood relief •....•................................-................................................. - •.... ,....... 318
Grand Lodge of Scotland,.........................,....,...,,.............;..,...,....,.....·....,... 316

De Castro, David F .,....vjsltor......_...•• ____, ...•.;...........,._••.•..,,-.._.........i ..•••..- ..•. 308

El Centro ~odge-Consolidation with Oasis Lodge:-··•·····--·····················-, 318
Employment Service-Appropriations for ...................................................... 498
Endowment Board-Annual Report 'Of___,,._.,..•'....~:,..:...•.•,•.;,..:..._.•••.•..,~·-··"·~·. 401

Hawaiian Islands ............,........•......................................,.........••...;.............. 316

Appropriation for .........................,..........................,..................................... 495

Inspectors-Commendation of ···:··········-·············································-··· 317
Liability insurance •............................................................,.,.............;.......... 319

Donations, list of .............................•.,.........................•................................ 409

Masonic Club llouses....:.......l.......,..l...,......- ...:•...~.--········•·•··~+-···--··..:,.;. 316

Grand Master's commendation .....................;..........................:................ 317
Extinct Lodges-List of ·-······································································-········· 579

Masonic Education ························································-·············"···········--·· 315
Masonic History ..............•..... ,........,.............................................................. 315

F

Masonic Homes ·-················-........................................................................ 317
Masonic publications ..........................,......................................................... 319

Fifty-year buttons iss_u~d; ..:..~.....~.,•...,._,.,.•........,..,...;....;....•,-....:...•" .........,.......:., 323
Finance-Reports of Committee:...•.........- ......·- ·····-·······················:........~ ....... 493
Finances of Grand Lodge.......c••••••.;.••••••••.:.........,.:.........;·•••••••~•••••••••••••••• .:.•••••••••••• 331

Necrology ........................................................................................................ 318
Report of Committee on Message............., •...........................:...•.-.-..,.:.....· 336
. . . ... .... __ ,. ..•.. _ .. . ,,..
318
Social Security A-:1. .........

Finances of Masonic Hoines;:........~.•.•. ~.........i,•••••.: •...:.............: ••.••••••••••.,:........ 355
Financial Report of Grand Secretary..................,.........._.................................... 328

Special Communications .............................................,.-......._.,.,'..""'\'·;•·>-·:-'\ 313
Special Committee appointed ........ _.:...................,........................'......._..'..: 318

Flint, Chas. H.-Gift

L.... ... . .

. _ .. ........ ... . . M.. ... .. ........ .

350

Flint, Thomas-Memorial address on..'···········•·-······•·•'·········---···················· 462
F1ood relief ....................................................;................f···•····-•-·······--··-············ 318
Foreigri Grand Lodges-List oL..:.;.,.~:..:.:~..;•.:...,,......,.......~.!.L,•.•.~~.:......i.:.•:...... 587

Visitations ........, •..........................................................c....................-·-······- 315
Grand Secretary-Annual report of.. _....'...... ..:~.~•.•.,.;,.•;._, __..,......,....,,.•;.~_....~ 321

Fridborg, Henry K.-Amendment to Section 128....,.................................... 523

Financial report ······························-········································-·······-····•······ 328
Report of Committee on Report..~........................ ~...................;..••-·--··· 337
Tenure of otfi.c~..............._
._..........,......_....•.•.•.....-...., ••~•..:....•.;..,.,.....,,_...,._.._ 520

Funeral Service-Resolution to revise.........-<~···•···"-·'···'. .••••,.~.,'. •..•.•.....:-...•.• 5~
Funds, investment o f .
520

Gravel Range Lodge:--Loan to.:•....;... _ ......;..•..•.---····-····~ .........:...••__,...:, 497

Grand Treasurer-Annual report of..........·-····-···.......-,.:....•_,._.__,__...,...,. 331

INDEX

INDEX

iv

v

Page

Page

Greenley, J. S.-Dedicated Masonic Temple...............·................................,... 314

Marks, Barnett E.-Distinguished visitor'"""·"·"-.............. _.;_ ...... ~........:.. 308

Grievance Committee-Report oL: ...............,.......... _, .........., ................,.r.:..-.. 514

Masonic Club Houses-Appropriation for .............................................. 495, 496

Group Hospital Insurance-Resolution for..............................................- - 524

Grand Master's reference ·t<t-.:,.M....;:.,.:........ ...:._ ••:...... ;.:, .........;...:••• ••. ~ •••••{ ... 310
Masonic Education-Appropriation for ................... :........................................ 493
Grand Master's c6mments ..................................................... - ...: ......:.: ........ 315

H
Hawaiian Islands-Visit of Grand Master to. ...............- ..,.• _............. --...- ... 316
Hawaiian Lodge-New Temple dedic~ted ........................ ~ ............................. 314
Hervey, Wm. Rhodes-Visit to Scotland.................~ ..........................w•······· 316
History, Masonic-Report of Committee.·..................:···--.-···--..--..... _............ 464
Hospital Group Insurance ............................................................................. ,.... 524
Hospital Insurance-Resohition for ............................................ ,..................... 490
Hospitals, 1fasonic-Report of Committee......................................318, 430, 437

Report of Committee,. ......... :.. ~····"··~·:·...:..,... ,.............:..•... .":......;....~ .........:.. 468
Report of Committe~ on Policy .................................................................. 524
Masonic Employment Service-Appropriation for ........................................ 498
Masonic History-Grand Master's comment on ..............,............................. 315
• Report of Corllmittee ........._......... :.•.., .. :............;,............ ~ ............ ~ ....:....:..... 464
Ma&onic Homes-Annual report of TrU$tees .................................................. 345
Admissions ...................................................................................................... 345
Annual report of Secretary.......................................................................... 354
Applications received ....................,............................................................. 346

I
Inspectors-Commendation of

Articles of incorporation amended.:....... - ............. ,, .................................. 350

• 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 • 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 o O O . .- H O • O O O • o O O • • • • O • •

317

Covina Home e;Jf:pense..............,.........- ............:............... ,.c......... :............. _ 352
Covina-Report of Superintendcnt..........:......,...............,........................... 384
Decoto Home ~pense.-................... ~ ... - ...................... :.........,... ,................. 353

J
Jubilee Lodge-Unpaid d1tes ............,..................................... - .. -~!-~ ................. 496

Decoto-Report of Strperlntenderrf...... ,..................................................:.. 365
Died during year............................................................................................ 381
Donations to Covina HamC: ...:...:.-.• :... :.:...,...;.............:..;..... ;.:... ~.: ......:.... ;... 388

K

Donations to Decoto ffPl'ITe ....,....~ ...:...:..........,.....................;•.•. .'................ 368

Kergan, Wesley W.-Liability of Lodges for relief ................,. ............ ,....... 518

Earning system for children.::.~ .. J...; ......., .....; •••••••••••••: .......,,;:................-:..... : 347
Entertainment donations

Koenigstein, A. ].-Resolution to provide advance information
- ... o13',1. 526

of resolutions

L

...

. ....

·~..

.1i'1'1. 392

Finances ............................,...........,....................,, ......................... :.................. 35~
Flint, Chas. H.-Gift t1 f ..•
350
Generous Grand Tiler

,..,.~••o,.•••••••""•••.,••••"""''"""""•••••••••••••••U•••••••••""""""•••••u••,.••••••

350

Grand Master's c01nmendation ...... .'........................................................... 316

Laguna Beach Lodge-Unpaid dues .........................................;..... --•-..····---· 496
Leavy, Leonard S.-Memorial address on ...........................................,... _ .. _ 458

Legacies received ....................-., ........-.............. ,............... ~--~······--··----· .. ··--···· 350

Liability Insurance-Grand Master's ruling......,............,.......... .,....,.............. 319

List of residents at Decoto ~'""'"•·'·'·•............ :,............... .'....- .....~.... 373
Old Age Security .
.1-N . 524

Life membership funds .. :...... ~ ........................,......,..................:., ....- .... 3~5, 439, 522
Liquor resolution ..........,.........................................................................., ............ 524
Lodges-List of ...........,........................................................................................ 569

List of_ children at Covina Hbtne-.""'"'-·'·····'"•··..•-···.. ··•;........................... 396

Per· capita cost ...................................... ..,............................................ :.....;... 353
Relief, outside
.JX2, 398
Repairs and replacements ..._.........,........................................ ,....... J............. 351

M

Responsibilities of Lodges ............ - ................................................._.......... 350

Mallachowitz, C. E .-Resolnticms by:.: ..~., .... :....................,.. ,....:•..... .4-tO, 519, 526
Manual for conduct of Lodges-Appropriation for.·:...... :...........,. ......... _ .... 494

Rules for admission ·--·---··--····--······-····---------··-----·--....·---"'--;. 351
Savings system for c:hildrea...:.....,_._......;.._,,___ •..!....~ ....- ... ~._..:...,.,..... 348

Marip-osa Lodgc:-Dispensation to meet in Yosemite Valley.................... 319

Social Service investigators --·------·······-··--·-····-··--·-·····•"·---·"'· .. - 346

vi

INDEX

INDEX

vii
Page

Page
Summer camp ······························································································- 347
Trends in child care.:.................................. - ......•........•.......................... _.,_ 347

To amend Sec. 27 ........................................................................................... 528

Wadleigh, George H.-Gift ot.................... -··--·~_,., ................... :;...........::...., 350

To amend Sec. 3&...,,,..,.......,.,~·.•, ..,,.................................. ,................'... :...... 439

To amend Sec. 37-E, :W·~-"~'-·'··--•~-- .....:........................,•.:-..............:... , 472

. . . . . .:. . . . . . . . . . . ~ . . . . . . ;,. . . . . . . .,. . .~.". . . . . . . . . . .-:. . . 439

Masonic pub Ii cations -···· ...···········-·····-··-'············-····...,.. ,............... ---····-·····'319; 521
Masonic Hospitals-Report of Committee on.,............,.. ..................318, 430, 437

To an1end Sec. 43.~ ...~~:~.o .... ~ ...........~.-=

Masonic Temple Association-Report Qf••.•.. ,•.•••;.;.,.:.............;.-,..-,.:•.•••: •• ,~ •• 529

To amend Sec. ®.,.....~:. ........ ~ .....;.................:............ :,.;~....:...... ;..................... 522

Membership of Lodges:......................:...,........ ,...,..•..;.....: ...........................,........,. 321

To amend Sec. 121L...:....•:....:.'.:..~,.... ._......:,.: .... ,..-.:,•..~.: ...:•.. .;..:......................... ~ ... 439

Memorial Services ..•,.. -······---~.........;•.•,....,..., ................,., .................., ...•,..-........,. .. .4~' 463
Message of Grand Master.................................................................................... 313

To amend Sec. ~29 ..~ •....:.............;........:.....................•~·-····-"·······•·····--··'·:...•.. 439
To amend Sec. 129--.A,...........:.. :.....................·.·..................:...•.•. ;...•- •.,.........440, 491

Meyer, Ellsworth-Eulogy, Ira F. Thompson .......................... ,.•- ............... 460

To amend Sec. l~. . . . . ,..C:...·....-.....:,.'...:'..-........ ~ ••.r.~ ...:..~--'•,.-. ............... ...,.:,................ ,.......:... ~ ...

Miller, Rollie W.-Grand Master's Message .................................................. 313
Monitor-Changes in .......................................................................................... 492

To amend Sec. 1'63............•-·•·•-.·-;"···"-;.~., ... .:, ................... :.1~.............. : ... ;, •• 1• 440
Advance information of resolutlons ...........~ .............................................. 439

Muffett, Irving A.-Resolution proposing a Peace Day........................439, 526

Committee on '.('\.c<:<;>µnts.4.'"' .... ,., ................ ~..............'............................••.. 525

N

Eliminate Home fee for !lffilia,tes.... ,.....:..................................................... 440

Necrology-Report of Committee ..................................................................... 448.

Funeral Services revision ............... .r.-111........ , •.:•• .," .. , .....
529
Group insurance .•.. ~ ...................... ,.::.. .......... :... ................,..;.•,••..•.•.-..440; 490, 524

0

Investment of fu.nds:..•._................ ,...........................;..H.:•..-.......................... 520

To amend Sec. 87...;.•,•.,.,•..•..'.,,..................... :••.•.••......~ ............., ............. 4$9, 518

1

J( ..................... •

439

Custodian for Wes tern Star Lodge vault...•.....:...................................... 440

1. ............ .1 •• '._...,..,, ......... _,. .......... H .. • · · · · · · · · ·

497

Life membership tl!i).d5................... ., ... _......,....:......~ ......c.......- .................. 522

Oasis Lodge-Consolidated with El Centro Lodge ....:..• - ...••...•... ,.,............. 318

Limit voting power .......................................................................................... 439

Oakland Board of Relief-Reimbursement to ..:..._.,, ....

p . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " '. . . . . . . . .

~

Oceanside Lodge-Unpaid dues ............................,...•..,............;............... _.....,_.. 496

Liquor, ban OflJ""il'."°""! ....._.............................................: ...........

Officers of Grand Lodge--List of••...,,................,......... ~ ..... ~.............;...............~ ...... 564

Manual for ~ ............;............- ..................,........................................,. 437

Ogden, Wm. B.-Annual Oration ............................,....................................... 338

Masonic Education ................................................................ ,..................... 524

d

........................... ; . . . . . . - ' ................ I" .......

••

524

Old Age Security Act. ...:.........................,.,........................ .,. __ ,...........- .•·~-····349, 524

Peace Day proposed ..............................;•.•...•.•.•.•.... ;.. ._..........., ................439, 520

Oration, annual ...................................................................................................... 338

Reduce &alary of Grand Secretary............................................................ 440
'Rental of Lodge halls-limitation of........................

M .......................

.439, 525

Rescission of dues of aged members ....................................................~ ... 523

p
499

System of teaching ri~tial.._ ........ ~•....•• ~ ......... ,.. ,......................,...... ;....440, 526

Pay of Members-Appropriation for ................................................................ 499

To delay pay of reP,resentatives ..•.\.. ,.......................................................... 440

Past Grand Masters-Portraits of.•.:..................... _......:;.............- ..... ~.: ..........

¥

Report of Commiftee.....•._..,,...,.,. ...,. ........•... ~ ..--.• :-...- ....,•..'""',...., ................ 492

Report of Endowment Board.••.•;.......................~ .........................,4,,1,,.....: ......... 401

Peace Day-Resolution for •.,,.,..,.,..,~.··+-·•··...:.........,..,....,.............,... ....,,..........4,19; 526

Grand Lecturer .............................................................................................. 333

Peck, Clarence W.-R.esolution to restore method of teaching ritual... .. , 440

Grand Secretary ............................................................................................ 321

Potts, Alex. D.-Dedicated Masonic Temple................................. _............... 314

Grand Treasurer ............................................:....................,.......................... 331

Public Schools-Report of Committee on., ..................................................,•. 430

Masonic Club, Berkeley,............................................................................... 488

R

Masonic Homes ..........................................- ..................:............................. 345

Masonic Club, Los Angele~ ......................;......................:................. :....... - 488
Masonic Temple Association............................................,. .•,..•......•........... 529

Relief, liability of Lodges for ...............~··--·········---...................................,.......• 518
Renting Lodge Halls-Restrictions proposed ....................................... .,......... 525

Reports of Committees-On Accounts......,,. ..................................................... 472

Resolutions-To amend Sec. 6:........ ~-··...:. ...........-,.............,,............,...... ~•.:...~ 440

Board of COltttQl....•. ,....,.. ,...:............c, .•••••.• .1. ••••••••• , ..., ••••••••• ~ ......................... 503

INDEX

viii

INDEX

Pa1e
By-Laws

- -··· ---- 47 '

Charters

..... ·-··-·--·· ·------·-·- -· · . - - .. _. ····---- - ---·-·- - -

Clandestine Masonry .

Jurisprudence--Appeal of Master Acacia l.m l ;.: 1~

SO:?

ix
Page
System of teaching titual..•.•.:.. ...........;.m••••• , .................,...:..., ................,. 526

472

Tenure of office of Grand Secretary_........................ ·----·····-··--····--···· 520
Time limit for submitting resolutions ........ _...•.:.,.. _..;....... _.... -+···-···· 526

-···-·-·- - ----·---- S2H

Time of payment to Representatives ..........................................._.... 520

Dispensations issued by Grand Master_···-·· -·- -

528

To amend Sec. 27- .

528

..... - - . . · · ··-·· · ·····

Policy and General purposes-Amendments to Constitution ...... 518, 523
Funds, investment ol
.. ·- ... . _.. ... _
520

Masonic Education

468

Masonic History . - ... -·- -

464

Masonic ;Hospitals
Necrology __-· .

4.17

Hospital group insuraf,loe~ .•..... _ •. ~-·········-··-··········-····--··-······· .. ·-- 524
Liability of Lodges' for t41lf~ .•••.•••:...... _. ..,.............. ,.....•..;•. ,........... w 518
Life membership funds - ···· ·- ....... .
522

448

Liquor resolution ..............·-··--··--.---······--·-.--··: .............. _............ _.. ,......... 524

On Credentials

531

Masonic Education •.,..,.... _....,.............. _..... *···-·········•·-·························· 524
Masonic publications .,._ ...........................:........................ -.................. _ 521

On Finance-Audit of <l((nu t 1 t~

- ·· 493
Budget ··-··-···-··--··'···············-·-········:·······-···-··-,•----··-··-···•-·······--·~ 500
Custodian Western Star Lodge v;iuH.

•• -· - - - - -··

- . .. - ...- 494

Employment Service -~-----····-···-····--···-·-···--·--···- ..: .. .-....................,.•_ 498
. .
f or......---····---....................., .•~ 495
Endowment Board-A ppropriat10n
•. . • ..........._............. ,._ .........., ............,,,....,..' 493
Grand Lodge Week Acuv1ti.es
Gravel Range Lodge-Loan I.••

497

Manual for conduct of Lodges........;.................., .... ., .. _,. ................. ,~ 494

Old Age Security.....................................,........ _........... -.................., ...... 524
Public Schools W cd .....
430
Representatives-Time of payment tQ•••, ••••.•••••-; .....,:.,;.......J; ••• _, •••• ~.;............ _., 520
Returns of Lodges-Report of CoJllmittee..<....... : ......,.............. :................ .-..... 476
Ritual-Resolution to revise funeral flervice ......,.......'>I·~,.,...: .......................:..... 529

Syste~ of t#itl~lµq,i..,..~ ........... ,...,_,,. ....1ii""-·""•'"··....,~....... :.... ~•-~·i-. . . . u ....., .. ....... .'... ~., ..: 520
Roberts, John E.-Resolution providing for group insurance ..............440, 524
"'r ..

Masonic Education ........... _............................................. _............ - .... . 493
Pay of mer:nbers..........,., ........................,._....-"--····•--···--·•·-············_.·""' 499
Per capita 1:1s
- ~lllJ . 502
Portraits of Past Grand Masters...................... ;................................. 499
Reimbursement to Boards of Relief........................,............. ,.......~ ..... 497
Reports of Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary ........................ 496
Salaries ·········-················-·--····'·--·······-·'·--····"··~·-····· ..······--"'··········-·--· 499
Unpaid Grand Lodge dues ........,..... :..:.............. ,....... -.........:......... .,..,. 496
Unpaid loans ............................. _............... ,._ .................................,........ . 496
On Grand Lecturer's :a.e.port............ - .•.,.....:... .. ~ ..............:....,_.,..,...;...•,.:_, 471

s
Salaries of Officers of Grand Lodge••- .•,..•. ,.~ .• ;...,..,:,•••..- ................ ,..:............ 499

San Francisco Board of Relief-Reimbursement to .. ~.............................. 497
Scotland-Bicentenary of._
• ___. ... 316
Seal Beach Lodge-Name changed to R. E. Dolley.................................... 502

.

Unpaid loan •••...,..,.
•.,......._... .,....... _..... _....••.,........................................... ,............ 496
' '
Seamans, Carl H.-Resolution to provide custodian Western Star
Lodge vauh .. ___ _

___

·-·=-HIJ. 494

On GrieYances ....·.................... ,..................................... _........,......................_. 514

Shepherd, Charles H.-Convened Grand Lodge.............................:........ ,... 314

On Pay of \ I .-1 11l1vr-

492

On Returns of (.;,o fi.:~··

476

Shields, Walter C..:_Cornerstone laid by ......•..·-·-······"······............................... 314
Social Security A (I
.. _ ·- .. . ..
J I :'!. 520

Qn Segregation ............................................. -.,,.................,............... ,., .. -, ..... 336
Overdrafts p•••·- ............... ,,.,. ••,.i"............"•• _••• ,.~.t- .. --.. o,e····••····'······"u···•···-··········~·.._.._. . . u.. 518
Peace day ................... ;...................................................................... ._.... 520

Relief .......:............. _................................. ,.,_ ............ - ... ,_ ...,.-...... -........... 518
Renting of Lodge Hall:1 .........................................._...,........................ 525
Salary of Grand Secretary ................... _...................................... -... ·-·· 519
Social Secu~ity Act ............- ........,...... -... ,.....,..,.... ,,. ...........>.i;,. __~ •••••;, 521

Stewart, Wilbur J.-Cornerstone laid by...... ____ ,................................ _.......... 314
Subversive Activities-Resolution ..........,....... ~ ..... :..............,...•....•,.............J1&, 530

T
~O<J. 502
Thompson, Ira F.-Memorial Address oi)..,......... _...:....................,..•.....460, 488
Trial Records-List ,,f . .. _ ...
_ . . . . _ _ "' • . . . . ....
···- 324

x

.

INDEX

u

Page

U. C. Club Houses-Appropriation for ....• ··- ···· ··-····· ...............
95, 496
U. C. Club, Berkeley-Report oL _ ·- ......• _ •. - ....... . . . . .. .. .. .. ... - -··. 488
U. C. Club, Los Angeles-Report of.. ..... ····- .•..................... -· ····· ......... 488
Unpaid dues of Lodg~s~ ... ._: ............................ - .......- ...··-····..:····'·······--······-·i..~ 496
Unpaid loans ..................-........:................. :................ ,... .,.,...............;•...,........~~·..;.,;. 496

v
Vault, Western Star Lodge-Report of Finance Committee..............440, 494
Vetera_n But"tons issued..........................'................-...... _...:...........:.... ;............. ,. 323
Visitations of Grand Master:............................................................................... 315
Voting power of delegates limited ............................................ ., ...................... 439

w
Wadleigh, George H.-Gift of..........;._.,.....:::......................~~......,..•:.............:.. 350
Warren, Earl-Installed Grand Steward .........., ............................................. 314
Waste, Wm. H.-Cornerstone laid................'........... :........ -.........- ................ 314
Weller, Dana R.-Eulogy, Thomas FHnt..............................................:;......... 462
Western Star Lodge-Resolution to provide for custo~ian ......·..........440, '494
Wilson, Lloyd E.-Address on Constitution of U. S .....................;.,.•,........ 441
Winnedumah Lodge-Dispensation to meet in Death Valley .................. 319
Wollenberg, Charles M.-Eufogy, Leonard S. Leavy .................................. 458

