ONE HUNDRED FORTY-SECOND
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
CALIFORNIA
1991

RONALD A. SHEROD
The Grand Master of Masons in California, Most Worshipful Ronald A.
Sherod, was born in Omaha, Nebraska, on May 24, 1926. A descendant of
early settlers of that prairie state, he came to California when he was only
sixteen.
He attended Wilson High School in Long Beach, and then enlisted in
the United States Navy during World War II . During that conflict he served
his country as a Navy Pharmacist Mate. Honorably discharged in 1945, he
enrolled at the University of California, Los Angeles, where he received a
Bachelor of Science Degree in Higher Accounting in 1950.
Professionally, our Grand Master is a licensed Certified Property
Manager, Public Accountant, and Real Estate Broker. He served as President, and Chief Executive Officer of Equitable Management Corporation
until his retirement in 1985. He is a sought-after consultant in the highly
specialized field of housing for the elderly. He is a nationally recognized
authority and speaker on housing for seniors, and served on the Council on
Aging under President Reagan. In addition, he served on several non-profit
boards such as the California Association for the Homes on Aging.
In June, 1946, he married the former Terry Hennig. They have one son.
Craig, who is an electrical engineer. They are members of the United Church
of Christ, and our Grand Master served as Moderator in his local congregation, as well as the Chairmen of the Board of Deacons for several terms. In
addition, he served for two years as a Director for the Southwest Conference
of the United Church of Christ.
Our Grand Master was Raised on July 22, 1953, in Bixby Knolls-Neptune
Lodge No. 699 in Long Beach, and served as its Master in 1961 . He is also
a member by affiliation with International City Lodge No. 389 in Long Beach.
In 1969 he was appointed Inspector of the 634th Masonic District, and served
in this capacity for three years. In 1977 he was appointed to serve on the
Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Resources and Development, and in
1980 was appointed a Trustee of the Masonic Homes of California. He
continued to serve as a Homes Trustee for the next ten years until his election
as Grand Master. He also served as a Trustee of the California Masonic
Memorial Temple in San Francisco. and a Trustee of the California Masonic
Foundation.
Brother Sherod is a member of both the Scottish Rite and the York Rite
bodies in Long Beach, and a member of both Al Malaikah and El Bekal Shrine

RONALD A. SHEROD
Grand Master
October 10, 1990 - October 16, 1991
iii

Temples. He is an active member of the National Sojourners, the International High Twelve, and the Southern California Research Lcx:Jge. He Is a
member of the Red Cross of Constantine, the Royal Order of Scotland, and
is a member of Brian Boru Council No. 38, having been inducted into that
bcx:Jy during his term as Grand Master. He is a Senior DeMolay, an Active
Legion of Honor Member, and received his Fifty Year DeMolay Pin during
his term as Grand Master.

I, JOHN L. COOPER Ill, Grand Secretary of the M:. W : . Grand
Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that bcx:Jy at its One Hundred
Forty-second Annual Communication, commencing at the City of
San Francisco, Monday the 14th day of October, A.L. 5991 and
terminating on Wednesday the 16th day of October, A.L. 5991 .

In October, 1985, he was appointed and installed as Grand Orator of
the Grand Lodge of California. In October, 1986, he was elected Junior
Grand Warden, and progressed through the elective line until he was elected
and installed as Grand Master of Masons on October 10. 1990.
In February, 1991 , he presided over the Conference of Grand Masters
of Masons in North America as National Chairman when that body met in
San Diego, California. As such, he presided over the organization representing all the Grand Lcx:Jges in North America, and served as presiding
officer for all the other Grand Masters of Grand Lodges in North America.

iv

I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed the seal of the
M:. W:. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California,
at the office of the Grand Secretary, this
11th day of May, in the year of Light. five
thousand nine hundred and ninety-two.

v

PROCEEDINGS
of

THE M :. W:. GRAND LODGE
of

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
ATITS
142ND ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, A.D. 1991, A.L. 5991
AND TERMINATING ON
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, A.D. 1991, A.L. 5991

Copyright © 1992 By Grand Lodge F.& A.M. of California
printed in the United States of America. All rights in this book are reserved. No part thereof
may be reproduced in any manner whatsoever without written permission from The Grand
Lodge of California except that quotations may be embodied in reviews by such other Grand
Jurisdictions as have been recognized by this Grand Lodge. For information, address Grand
Secretary, 1111 California Street, San Francisco CA 94108.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3

SUNDAY "PUBLI C AWAREN ESS" DAY
Prior to the opening of Grand Lodge for the transaction of business at
the 142nd Annual Communication, Grand Master Ronald A Sherod had
designated Sunday afternoon, October 13, 1991, as "Public Awareness
Afternoon."
Promptly at 12:30 p.m. a brief ceremony was held to dedicate the new
aluminum flag pole which had been approved for installation in the extreme
northwest corner of the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Following a prayer by the Very Reverend Joe Jackson, Grand Chaplain,
and brief remarks by Grand Master Sherod, the leaders of our four youth
organizations assisted the Grand Master in raising the flag. Miss Jennifer
Conwell, Grand Worthy Advisor. International Order of Rainbow for Girls in
California, led all in attendance in the Pledge of Allegiance, following which
the Grand Chaplain pronounced the benediction.
All then repaired to the Memorial Temple Auditorium for the balance of
the afternoon program, which consisted of the entrance of the Grand Lodge
Officers with fanfare, welcoming remarks by Grand Master Sherod, and the
presentation of the American Flag by Miss Jennifer Conwell, Grand Worthy
Advisor.
The visiting Grand Masters from sister jurisdictions were received,
accorded Public Grand Honors, introduced by the Grand Marshal and
individually greeted by Grand Master Sherod and Deputy Grand Master
Cazneaux.
VISITING GRAND MASTERS
M : .W: .Frank Erie
M:.W:.Hub ert W. Cocklin
M:.W:.Guy Hurst, Jr.
M :. W:.James T. Miller
M:.W: .Gerald V. Shay
M:.W:.Jam es N. DeMoss
M:.W: .William G. Roberts
M:.w ... 1van D. Rinck
M:.w ... James Vannice
M:.W:. C.H. "Scott" Coffey
M :. W :. Russel Wells

Grand Master of Masons in Alaska
Grand Master of Masons in Arizona
Grand Master of Masons in Colorado
Grand Master of Masons in Illinois
Grand Master of Masons in Montana
Grand Master of Masons in Nebraska
Grand Master of Masons in Nevada
Grand Master of Masons in Oregon
Grand Master of Masons in Washington
Grand Master of Masons in Wyoming
Grand Master, International Order DeMolay,
J.P.G.M. of Michigan

4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Most Worshipful James DeMoss, Grand Master of Masons in Nebraska
responded on behalf of all visiting Grand Masters.

Grand Master Sherod then called upon Miss Leslie Jones, a Past
Honored Queen of Antioch Bethel No. 115, and a recent exchange student
who visited the Soviet Union, who p resented her impressions of that country
and its people, following which the representatives of the Youth Orders, both
youth and adult, were introduced and welcomed by the Grand Master. They
are as follows:

· The following distinguished guests from our sister jurisdictions were
then received, accorded Public Grand Honors, introduced and individually
welcomed by Grand Master Sherod:
VISITING DIGNITARIES
M :. W:. Robert F. Henderson

W :. Darrel Meinders
R:.W:.C. Grant Wardlaw
R :. W :.John Harper
W :. James W. Aycock
W :.James Callahan
R:.W:.ErnestY . Yamane
V :. W .-. William Wong
V:.W : .Louis Ondo
W:.Dexter Lum
R :.W:.Franklin L Coonley
M :. W:. Thomas A. Dougherty
R :.W :.G. William Oldham
R :.W:.John S. Harvey
R :. W :.James M. Shillingburg
V :. W : .Alejandrina A Eusebio
R:.W :.James D. Wadley
R:. W:.Kenneth S. Robinson
R:. W:.Ray A. Noah

Past Grand Master and
Grand Secretary, Arizona
Grand Tyler, Arizona
Senior Grand Warden, British Columbia
Junior Grand Warden, Colorado
Junior Grand Deacon, Colorado
Junior Grand Steward, Colorado
Deputy Grand Master, Hawaii
Grand Treasurer, Hawaii
Grand Lecturer, Hawaii
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Hawaii
Deputy Grand Master, Nevada
Past Grand Master, New Jersey
Deputy Grand Master, Oregon
Junior Grand Warden, Oregon
Grand Secretary, Oregon
Past Grand Secretary, Philippines
Deputy Grand Master, Utah
Senior Grand Warden, Washington
Grand Secretary, Wyoming

Present during the course of the Communicatio n but not present on
Sunday were :
R :. W:.Leslie R. Little
M :. W:. H. Dale Walker
W :. U. Dean Mathena
W:.Robert Bartholic
R:.W:.Larry A. Turner
V :.W :. Leo Noel
V:. W: .Edward M. Block
W:. Charles L. Keene, Jr.
M :. W :. Warren J. Gilbert, Jr.
M:. W:.Sidney Kase

Deputy Grand Master, Alaska
Past Grand Master, American Canadian
Grand Marshal, Colorado
Senior Grand Steward, Colorado
Grand Secretary, Idaho
Past Grand Treasurer, Japan
Past Grand Master and
Grand Treasurer, Nevada
Grand Tyler, Nevada
Past Grand Master, Washington
Past Grand Master, Washington

Mrs. Anna. Lind
Mrs. Tess Misner
Mr. Walter Lindsay
Mr. Gaylord Roten
Miss Jennifer Conwell
Miss Sabrina Webb
Mr. Skip Wahl
Mr. Loren Southard

5

Supreme Deputy in California
International Order of the Rainbow for Girls
Past Grand Guardian of California
International Order of Job's Daughters
Past Associate Grand Guardian of California
International Order of Job's Daughters
Executive Officer of
Southern California DeMolay Jurisdiction
Grand Worthy Advisor
International Order of the Rainbow for Girls
Grand Bethel Honored Queen of California
International Order of Job's Daughters
Master Councilor
Northern California DeMolay Association
Master Councilor
Southern California DeMolay Jurisdiction

Each of the four youth leaders were invited to address the assembled
audience. Their remarks were received with warm and enthusiastic applause. Each presented the Grand Master with a small gift and he in turn
presented each with a monetary gift for their respective organization's
leadership training programs on behalf of the California Masonic Foundation.
REPORT OF THE YOUTH ORDERS COMMITTEE
The Masonic Youth Orders have shown unparalleled enthusiasm, good
fellowship and cooperation this year throughout this jurisdiction. Their
members have been the epitome of Cal ifornia Free Masonry Working
Together. Not surprisingly, it has been the observation of the members of
this Committee that those lodges with thriving Youth Groups are usually the
same lodges that are also thriving, both in membership gains as well as
community involvement. Your Committee speculates that there could very
well be a connection.
Your Committee on Youth Orders continues to have two primary func tions which are; To develop ettective Fraternal relations with the men;ibers
and ad ult leaders of the three Youth Orders and to promote the increase of

6

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

youth programs in the lodges, as well as to encourage the Lodge members
to provide additional adult leadership to their local youth groups.

anyway possible as you plan your Lodge programs for 1992--programs
which will continue to put the YOU in YOUTH.

We are pleased to report that all three Masonic Youth Orders represented by four distinct organizations reported the smallest decline in membership this past year and hopefully the curve will continue to move to the
other end of the scale. They will continue to grow with your help Brethren,
but let us not get complacent with this slight improvement in statistics, for
all four still reported a loss last year. There are Assemblies, Bethels and
Chapters which closed this past year--not for the lack of membership but
for the lack of sufficient number of adult volunteers. Your Committee on
Youth Orders asks that each member of the Grand Lodge here today, return .
to your Temples and seek out a Rainbow Mother Advisor, or Job's Bethel
Guardian or DeMolay Chapter Dad and tell them you want to be involved.

We continued the Lodge Youth Coordinator Program in an effort to
increase the lines of communication between your Lodges and your local
Youth Groups.

7

The Committee held three meetings this year inAnaheim and Sacramento as well as here this morning.

In addition to the increased visitation of the members of this committee,
to both the constituent Lodges and the Youth Groups. other accomplishments were also noticed.

Our membership referral program and accompanying article in the June
issue of California Freemasonry magazine coincided with the Grand Masters
proclamation of Masonic Youth Month. The program seeks the help from
all 150,000 Master Masons in this jurisdiction to refer at least one nonMasonic youth relation or acquaintance for membership in one of the three
Masonic Youth Orders. In the two years we have attempted this program,
just over two hundred referrals have been forwarded to the respective Adult
Leaders.

Over 1000 congratulatory letters were mailed to every DeMolay who
turned 21 in 1991, these letters were signed by your Grand Master and their
primary message was one of good wishes on their journey through adulthood as well as a reminder that should they ever seek additional knowledge
about our beloved fraternity, they need only ask the nearest Master Mason.

Two years of meetings and planning have finalized the qualifications for
the Grand Masters Youth Service Award, and we have finalized the design
and production of the medallion to be worn by those recipients chosen by
the Grand Master to receive the award. It will be the highest award a Master
Mason can receive for his devotions to our Masonic Youth Orders.

Our annual publication of Masonic Orientated Scholarships was completed in March of this year and suitable quantities were distributed through
the Adult leaders of the Youth Groups as well as through the members of
this Committee at our visitations.

Your committee on Youth Orders is pleased to report that it also
represented your Grand Lodge at the following events:

In August, the annual MAYO (Masonic Adults of the Youth Orders)
meeting between the Adult Leaders of the four Youth Organizations and the
members of the Executive Committee was held under the auspices of the
Youth Orders Committee and served as an open forum for all attending to
share and discuss mutual areas of concern as well as ideas for growth and
prosperity. It was most pleasing this year to notice the first time ever that
all Executive Grand Line Officers as well as all Adult Leaders were able to
attend.
As in past years. this committee has prepared an information package
for all Senior Wardens and we urge the Brethren to visit our booth on G floor
and pick up your packets. Our Committee members, staffing the booth, are
most anxious to answer your questions and are willing to assist you in

1.

Northern California DeMolay Grand Masters Class

2. Grand Chapter Order of the Eastern Star
3. Job's Daughters Grand Guardian Council
4.

Northern California DeMolay Convention

5.

Southern California DeMolay Conclave

6.

Grand Assembly, International Order of the Rainbow for Girls

7. Grand Bethel , International Order of Job's Daughters
In addition to the above, the members of this Committee were in
attendance at many Youth Functions throughout the year and The Grand
Master's theme was communicated by all 62 members of this Committee
through our visitation to almost every Assembly, Bethel and Chapter in the
state, and 7500 of his FORGET ME NOT Youth Pins were presented during
those visitations.

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Your Committee will continue to address itself to its goals and purposes
as well as the Masonic Youth Organizations membership declines in the
1992 Masonic year.
Finally, I must inject a personal note. Having served this committee for
the past seven years, with the greatest of personal pleasure and satisfaction.
Having seen it prosper and grow to the largest Committee in this Grand
Lodge (as well it should be considering our charge). and being a firm believer
that new leadership injects new ideals and goals to be reached (which is
vital to the survivorship of any organization), I have asked not to be
re-appointed as Chairman in 1992, but to return to the ranks in some other
capacity.
I leave this assignment with a deep feeling of gratitude for having had a
hand in helping to shape and direct the policies and programs of this
Committee and I shall certainly continue to support them to the fullest extent
of my ability. I also leave with some regrets that not all of our goals laid
down by our D.G.M. in 1988 have been reached, but my faith in my
successor relieves this anxiety, and I am confident that this Committee will
continue to take great strides in the future, and that our Masonic Youth will
ultimately be served.
I wish to express my sincere gratitude to each of the Grand Masters
under whom I have had the pleasure of serving. My thanks also to the Very
Worshipful Robert A. Klinger, Grand Secretary and to his exceptional Grand
Lodge office staff for their wonderful cooperation. My sincere appreciation
also goes to the many enthusiastic and dedicated members of this Committee with whom I have had the pleasure of working with over the years and
especially to the many adult leaders of the Youth Orders whose help and
cooperation have been invaluable.
But most of all, and best of all, to the members of the Masonic Youth
Orders--Thank you, it's been great-we're on a roll-let's keep it moving
forward and never look back.
Respectfully submitted ,
Coren T. Andrews
Thomas V. Baker
Dean F. Bradley
James S. Burbidge
Ned 0. Chapman
Robert M. Davenport
Joseph Devore

Michael D.T. Sanders, Chairman
Victor K. Armstrong, Jr.
Harmon S. Bigelow
David Buck
George Carter
Gordon R. Craig
Dave H. Denbow
Andrew W. Disney

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Albert T. Effie
James A. Faris
Bennie E. Flint
Donald A. Franke
Henry F. Gillespi
John Harlan
John H. Hoole
Richard L. Jaine
Roger J. McBride
Xavier A. Pitassi
Gerald D. Scott
H. Craig Smith
Dee Swearingen
E. Earl Wheeler
Danny C. Wong
Larry D. Johansen
Arthur M. Lower
Raymond R. Parkes
Edward F. Schmit
Cadman E. Simard
Raymond K. Stout
Robert L. Wade
William G. Wolfe

9

Alton Emerson
Michael A. Fechner
Ivan Forbes
Oscar E. Fuentes
Richard D. Glass
David L. Harper
Cline Jack
Wallace A. Kelley
Paul 0. Miser
James W. Real
Leland A. Sickler
Wallace C. Stairs
Wayne Trueblood
Kenneth L. Wilson
Alva E. Hinman
Donald A. Journey
Kenneth E. Miller
Herb B. Putnam
James J. Serrata
David Sokol
Donald R. Taylor
Graham Wilcox
Richard B. Wood

GRAND MASTER'S YOUTH
ACHIEVEMENT AWARDS
A new program entitled "Grand Master's Achievement Award" was
explained by the Youth Orders Committee Chairman, Michael Sanders.
Following is this report:
No words can adequately describe my complete satisfaction and
pleasure in seeing one of the Committee's long range programs culminate
here today. As I mentioned earlier in my Committee report, Two years of
meetings, planning, and even legislation have been necessary to launch this
program.
I refer of course to the new Grand Master's Youth Achievement Award.
This award is designated to be the highest award a Master Mason can
receive for his devoted service to our Masonic Youth Orders. Many of the
future recipients of this award have already been honored by the individual

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Youth Organizations with their highest honors but until now, there was no
way for the Grand Lodge to recognize and honor these men.

generated tremendous support within all three youth organizations. He
continuously devotes his time to the betterment of youth and the improvement of our fraternal relationship. His name is Brother A. Jackson Cavallaro.

Today being the first presentations of the award, we have asked that the
recipients come to Grand Lodge for the presentation, in future years, it is
hoped that the Grand Master will be able to present these awards in his
travels. hopefully at a youth function.
This year we have 5 Masons who have been nominated for the award
and Most Worshipful Sherod has completed the process with his approval.
If they would come up to the stage as I call their names, we will be delighted
to present them with the designated medallion for the award .
This Brother has been supportive of four youth groups in Roseville since
1976 or earlier. He attends all the youth group meetings and fund raisers,
and he brings his wife to these functions as well. He holds Rainbow's Grand
Cross of Color, DeMolays Legion of Honor and a member of honor certificate
from a Job's Daughters Bethel. He has been on the Advisory council of his
Bethel well over 10 years and currently is also on five year stint with the
DeMolay Advisory Council. His name is Brother Jerome A. Perry.

11

Our last nominee is well known to me and to the youth groups of
Northern California. He has served two separate three year terms on a
Rainbow Board, several years as a member of a Guardian Council for
Redding (as has his wife) and when no Mason would come forward to be
the Associate Bethel Guardian at the Bethel in Mount Shasta, he took the
job and commuted 90 minutes each way twice a month for two years. He
was also instrumental in securing that Bethel a place in a Masonic Temple
instead of a Senior Citizens Home where they formerly met. He also served
Northern California DeMolay as a District Deputy for several years. For the
last two years he has also been a member of this committee and next year
will serve as one of its assistant Vice Chairmen. His name is Oscar Fuentes.

REPORT OF CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
Our next Brother joined Masonry in Oregon. He had no children of his
own and thus adopted the Masonic youth as his children. He has given of
his time and funds in helping to establish new Chapters, Assemblies and
Bethels and more importantly has been an excellent recruiter of other good
Masons to work with our youth. For 35 years he has been an active
supporter and has given to the respective scholarship loan funds which aid
our youth groups. Because of a recent family loss, this Brother will soon be
moving to Arizona, and our loss will be that State's definite gain. His name
is Brother Henry D. Pfenning.
This next Brother has supported all three youth organizations in the
Stockton area for many years and currently serves as an Associate Bethel
Guardian and as Chairman of the DeMolay Advisory Council. His nominator
summed it up very briefly by saying when it comes to the kids, he is always
there. His name is Brother James R. Eichbaun.
Our next nominee for this award has been very active in supporting all
three youth groups in Santa Clara County. He has conducted fund raisers
within other subordinate organizations with the sole purpose of raising funds
for the youth to use on special projects. He has involved all three groups in
supporting a Masonic booth at the County Fair and has then seen that funds
were made available for some special event requested by that youth group.
He has tirelessly worked for a Youth talent show for the county and has

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Brethren, Ladies and Friends, it is
indeed a pleasure to have this opportunity to tell you about the California
Masonic Foundation, the work we are doing to promote Masonic charity,
and to report to you on the achievements made during the past year.
The California Masonic Foundation was established in 1969 by the
Grand Lodge as a non-profit charitable corporation under the laws of the
State of California, for the furtherance of all phases of education, charitable
and scientific purposes. The Foundation was initially funded by the
proceeds from the sale of the Masonic Club houses adjacent to the campus
of the University of California at Berkeley and Los Angeles. The proceeds
from this sale of approximately $850,000, established the General Fund and
the interest earned from the investment of these funds were and still are
disbursed in the form of scholarship awards to college level students
through out the state. As a recognized charitable corporation within the
State of California the scholarships are awarded on the basis of financial
need without bias to race or religion. In 1972, the Order of Amaranth
conveyed a trust fund of approximately $220,000 to the foundation in token
of their support of the Foundation's scholarship program. The Order of the
Amaranth has yearly added to this original contribution and the Foundation
is grateful for their continued support. To date, scholarsh ips exceeding

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$250,000 have been distributed from the interest earned on the Amaranth
Fund.

The Foundation has endeavored to maintain a balance between quality
and quantity of the scholarship awards. Current Scholarships are generally
awarded yearly in the amount of $1000 per year. This represents essentially
$4000 benefit to the student who maintains acceptable scholastic status. In
the last couple of years, the Foundation has distributed over $100,000 in
scholarships to approximately 1oo students all over the state. Applications
for scholarships far exceed the current capability of the Foundation but the
committee does its best to make equitable judgements so that the most
deserving are properly recognized .

In recent years. several categories of scholarship funds have been
established to acknowledge special considerations of major donors. These
conditions may be geographical (such as students whose residences are in
specific locality), unique qualifications (such as for students who excel in
sports, or youth group activities, ect.), or students studying specific subjects. These funds are typically designated , according to the donors wishes,
by a specified name with all monies separately recorded and accounted.
Awards are made recognizing the specific fund and in accordance with the
specific conditions established. At present the separate Funds administered by the Foundation include the following: The Amaranth Fund,
the Robinson Fund, the Lister Fund, The Starr King Lodge Fund, The
Coalinga Masonic Fund, the Mackechnie Fund, and the McElwain Fund. In
addition, a Grand Masters Fund and a Chowchella Lodge Fund are in the
process of being established . Discussions have been initiated with Soquel
Masonic Lodge which it is hoped will also initiate a new Fund.
Donations, bequests, and contributions received by the Foundation
from individuals, foundations and estates of decedents have contributed
materially to the scope of the awards and grants which are distributed. Many
Lodges and individuals have adopted the Foundation Scholarship Fund as
the charity of choice for memorial donations and honorariums. Such
contributions, bequests, and donations are actively sought by the Trustees
so that the scope of activities may continue to be broadened. The Foundation is indebted to those who have contributed during this past year; your
continued support is greatly appreciated .
The present Foundation endowment totals in excess of $2,000,000.
These funds are conservatively invested by the Investment Committee of
Grand Lodge and the Foundation yearly distributes the interest earned for
its charitable programs. This way each of the separate Funds are a preputial
and potentially increasing resource.
The concept of living Trusts has created a major source of potential
future funds for the Foundation. The Foundation has recently been named
the beneficiary in several major living trusts and in the next few years could
easily double its current endowment. Brother Earald H. Barton and Brother
Carl Graves have established living trusts with the California Masonic Foundation as beneficiaries. The ultimate receipt of these funds could substantially increase the Foundation's resources and the magnitude of the
scholarship program.

13

Application for scholarships may be obtained by written request to the
California Masonic Foundation in care of Grand Lodge. Masonic youth are
really encouraged to apply for these scholarships.
The interest occurring from the General Fund again provided $8,000 to
aid the Masonic youth groups with their leadership training. This program
has proved to be most beneficial and is particularly rewarding for the
Foundation.
While the scholarship program has been the single thrust of the foundation since its creation, in 1988 the Foundation had matured to the point
where it could expand its influence and perform a major educational and
charitable service to society. Under the leadership of Most Worshipful Leo
Mark, the Foundation undertook the support of the Grand Lodge's "Drug
and Alcohol Abuse Educational Program". President Bush's initiative on the
"War Against Drugs" clearly needs the help, aid, and assistance of all
concerned citizens - we must all do all we can to conquer this extreme threat
to our nation. The Foundation clearly sees this as a great opportunity to
solicit the help of the friends of our fraternity to join with us to provide
assistance to the drug and alcohol abuse educational programs in the
schools in our state. The Grand Lodge's program is operated through the
superintendents of the ten state school districts and provides Masonry with
the vehicle to directly participate in this battle. You can not pick up a
newspaper without seeing several articles which define the magnitude of the
Drug and Alcohol Abuse problem throughout the United States. The
menace of illegal drugs requires all concerned citizens to join together to
provide an integrated multi-fronted attack. The time has come for Masons
to do everything possible to insure that the entire population will just "SAY
NO TO DRUGS."
The educational program sponsored by the Grand Lodge and administered by the Public Schools Committee is directed at providing educational materials for the junior high and elementary level student and to aid
the professional teaching staff with their efforts to bring the message of drug

14

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and alcohol abuse to our youth. For the third year in a row, the Foundation
has been able to fund educational programs in each of the ten state school
districts. The school boards are especially grateful for this support and it is
having a very positive impact on the perception of Masonry in California.
This program is clearly recognized by the members of our Fraternity
who contributed over $150,000 in 1989 and about $250,000 in 1990. Over
$200,000 has already been received this year. Please stop by the
Foundation's booth downstairs during these Grand Sessions for more
information on this program.
The goal is to attempt to raise $500,000 each year to fund this most
important program. The Foundation is currently working on next year's
program, and it is hoped that each of you will enthusiastically support this
noble effort and include a fund raising activity: maybe as part of your Lodge's
public schools program. The financial objectives of this program can not
be reached solely by the solicitation of contributions from the Brethren. The
Foundation is working to create an appeal to the public and establish a
comprehensive fund raising program with the support of all segments of our
communities. Read the "Freemason" for developments as this program
progresses. Find where your respective Lodges can help - let'sletthe public
know of the "good works we Masons perform".
This has been a rewarding time for the Foundation and the message is
reaching the membership. The Board is especially grateful to Most Worshipful Ronald A. Sherod for his enthusiastic support this year. The Trustees
are dedicated to the continuation of the momentum and enthusiasm created
within the Board Members during the past few years. The Trustees are
dedicated to discharge their responsibilities to the Masons of this Grand
Jurisdiction in a most responsible manner and are appreciative of the
opportunity to serve. We have a big challenge before us but one which if
executed with diligence will demonstrate the contributions Masons make to
the world around us. Thank you.
Respectively submitted,
Donald C. Briggs, President
James B. Bouick, Ill
Tholow C. Chan
Clyde M. Cole Jr.
Stanley M. Cazneaux
David H. Farlee
Edgar L. Friedman
Donald H. Hargraves

Glenn C. Johnson
Richard F. Locke
Harvey Malin
Lester S. McElwain
Richard A. Paris
Marc R. Seidenfeld
Harold S. Stein Jr.

15

The Grand Master then called upon the Grand Orator. James McDonald .

GRAND ORATIO N
"Build Well!"
It's been quite a year. When the Most Worshipful Grand Mast_er first
asked me if I would serve as one of his appointive Grand Lodge Offlc.ers, I
had absolutely no idea what it would entail, but I said yes anyway. As 1t.has
turned out, I've never regretted my decision. I hope that Most Worshipful
Brother Sherod hasn't regretted asking --- at least not too often.
After preparing the first couple of orations, I discovered a totally unexpected benefit of my responsibilitie~. I was thinking mo.re about ~-aso~ry
than I had done since when I was trying to learn my candidate prof1c1enc1es
back in 1981, and as a result. I started to develop a better ans~er, at least
for me, to the question of what it means to be a Mason. I believe th.at my
answer has validity for everyone. even if only as a basis for further discussion. Freemasons are builders.
The Freemasons of today are the spiritual descendants of the Gothic
architects of the European middle ages. Those highly skilled builde~s of _the
magnificent stone cathedrals of Gothic archit~cture were th~ historical
forerunners of our fraternity. The Master builders, the architects who
designed those structures , were indeed a closely knit fraternity of respected
craftsmen wherever they traveled.
The Freemaso ns of today, however. are not often the act~al a~chitects
or stonemasons. We no longer build with stone, today w_e bu.1ld ~1th much
more enduring materials. The Freemasons of today build with ideas, and
our product is not buildings or cathedrals, but men's minds!
The guilds of Gothic Europe cared for their members. and taug~t t_
hem
to live lives of moral character designed to bring honor to the guild itself
through the actions of the guild's individual me'.11bers. Al~hough the need
for operative stonemasons diminished i~ the ~id to l_
ate sixteenth century.
the need for men of upright character in society did not. Free~sonry
changed from an operative, or working craft. to a speculative. or ph1l osoph1cal organization.
Freemasonry is not a religion. Freemasonry does not claim to be "~
way or~truth , or~life" , just a,way ...a.truth and a.life. We as Freemasons.
whether speaking of Blue Lodge Masons. or Scottish Rite Masons. or York

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Rite Masons, or Shrine Masons, or, for that matter, members of the Order
of the Eastern Star, or the Amaranth, or DeMolay, or Job's Daughters, or
Rainbow Girls. or any organization which is a part of the Masonic Family, -we as Freemasons don't believe that you must be a member of our
organizations in order to live a moral and upright life, just that if you Ara a
member of the Masonic Family, you should live your life in a moral and just
manner.

In all, the Masons of the United States contribute over two and a half
million dollars per day ... each and every day ... to various charitable needs
of society.

16

Neither is Freemasonry some Satanic cult! The Masonic family is
merely a group of individually devout men and women who are striving to
make the entire world a better place for everyone to inhabit.
One of the earliest lessons that a Mason is taught is that to relieve the
distressed is a duty incumbent on all men, but particularly on Masons. Vast
sums of money are contributed by the various Masonic organizations of the
United States to many different charities sponsored by them.
There are the justifiably renown Shrine Crippled Children's Hospitals
and Burn Centers. Over three hundred twenty-five million dollars per year
are spent to maintain these hospitals alone, and no patient ever pays
anything.
The York Rite Masons support the Knight Templar Eye Foundations to
research and treat eye disorders. The Scottish Rite operates its 77
Childhood Language Disorders Oinics, which diagnose and treat such
disorders as Dyslexia and Aphasia, again at absolutely no cost to the patient.
The Grotto has programs which aid the Cerebral Palsy Child and other
programs to provide complete dental care for Handicapped Children. Still
no cost to the patient.
Various other Masonic Medical Research Programs provide support for
the medical community's struggle to find new treatments for, or even better,
cures for such ills of mankind as Muscular Dystrophy, Schizophrenia,
Leukemia, Parkinson's Disease, Heart Disease, Diabetes. geriatric disorders
such as Alzheimer's Disease, Cancer research, Arthritis . .. and on, and on,
and on!
Here in California, this Grand Lodge through its California Masonic
Foundation, has in just three years contributed over $500,000 toward a
program to educate our elementary school children about the dangers of
Alcohol and Drug Abuse, and it appears likely that the Freemasons of
California will contribute about $250,000 more this year!

17

We must remember, however that that $2.5 million figure is reached only
if we consider all donations by all members of the Masonic Fam~y. Our
Masonic Youth Groups, Job's Daughters, DeMolay, Rainbow Girls. The
Eastern Star, York Rite. Scottish Rite, Shrine, Grotto, Sciots, Amaranth,
High-Twelve Clubs ... all these organizations and more. All require ~ither
membership in a Masonic Lodge, or relation to a Mason, or sponsorship by
a Mason. And all of these groups are founded upon the same Masonic moral
and ethical teachings.
Our Masonic teachings inform us, however, that even if we bestow all
our goods to feed the poor ... and have not charity, it profiteth us nothing.
1suggest to you, my friends, that Charity must, therefore, be more than the
mere donation-of-dollars.
The English word "charity'' is derived from the Latin word caritas, which
is also translated as "love." The particular connotation of the translation is
that of Brotherly Love.
The tenet of Brotherly Love, is the concept that the whole human species
should be regarded as one family, (derived from the same source) which,
as inhabitants of the same planet, should aid, support and protect each
other, in order to preserve the world in which we all live, and to unite men
of every country, sect, and opinion. This has been taught to Masons "since
time immemorial" as one of Freemasonry's principal tenets.
I submit to you that Brotherly Love, Relief of the distressed , nonhypocritical Truth of action, are all bound together into a concept that can
be called Charity. It is liQI the giving of money that makes the programs I
described to you charitable. It is the act of endeavoring to assist those who
are afflicted to have the best life possible for them, which has elevated the
aforementioned relief of the distressed to a level which encompasses the
true meaning of Masonic Charity. Let me emphasize that again. It is the
reasoning which induces the donation, which causes that relief to take on
the character of Masonic Charity!
So just where does this "revelation" lead us? Perhaps we must consider
just what difference there is between being "a Mason" and being "Masonic
in character."

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Seated in the East this afternoon, are four very exceptional young men
and women. Skip Wahl and Loren Southard, who are the Jurisdiction Master
Councilors respectively of the Northern and Southern California Jurisdictions of the Order of DeMolay, Miss Sabrina Webb, the Grand Bethel
Honored Queen in California, of the International Order of Job's Daughters,
and Miss Jennifer Conwell, Grand Worthy Advisor in California, of the
International Order of the Rainbow for Girls.

At certain times during our ritual, every Mason is asked two questions.
"Where were you first prepared to be made a Mason?" and "What makes
you a Mason?" We Masons know the answers dictated by ritual. and I am
not permitted to state those answers here today. I do, however, challenge
every Mason to consider, not the words of the ritual, but what is meant by
those words.

Jurisdiction Master Councilors Webb and Southard . I have no doubt
that, when age and circumstances permit, you and those of your DeMolay
Brothers who choose to join our Fraternity, will be welcomed with open arms
to full membership in some Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, wherever
that Lodge may be located. You and those whom you lead, have overwhelmingly demonstrated your devotion, both personal and as an Order, to
the principles upon which our Fraternity is based.
Grand Bethel Honored Queen Webb. You and your Sisters are our
literal relations. You are our daughters, our Granddaughters, nieces and
sisters. You are. both in fact and by your actions, a part of our Masonic
Family. You, although you are all eligible to be members of the Order of the
Eastern Star, will not ever be members of a Masonic Lodge, yet to those of
us who are members of the Fraternity, you will forever be a part of us.
Grand Worthy Advisor Conwell , --- Jennifer. Because of my involvement
with Rainbow, and my membership on the Rainbow Grand Executive
Committee in California, I have been privileged to get to know you, and many
of your Rainbow Sisters on a personal basis. You and those whom you lead,
are not necessarily related to any Mason in any fashion other than through
your membership in your Order. You, like the Jobs Daughters, will never
be members of a Masonic Lodge, and you may or may not even be eligible
to join the Eastern Star. unless you happen to later in life marry an man who
is or who becomes a Mason. Your organization's connection to Masonry
is the most tenuous of the three Youth Groups, yet your Order's goal of
Service clearly shows all of Rainbow to be Masonic in character.
These three Masonic Youth Groups, and the thousands of members of
those organizations, are not Masons. They are. however, Masonic in
character. The ladies of the Eastern Star aren't Masons either, but the Order
of the Eastern Star is Masonic in character. For that matter, many of the
members of the Salvation Army are not Masons. and the organization itself
is not sponsored by Masons. But I ask you to consider whether, perhaps,
just perhaps. the Salvation Army might also be Masonic in character.

19

I offer now, for your consideration, one interpretation of those ritual
answers. I believe that what makes a person a "Mason", is. in part. that
persons choice to dedicate his or her life to the betterment of the society in
which all of mankind must live.
The Sisters of Love. Religion, Nature, Immortality, Fidelity, Patriotism,
Service of Rainbow. The Five Messengers of Job's Daughters. The Seven
Preceptors of DeMolay. The Star Points of the Eastern Star. Brotherly Love,
Relief, and Truth. Temperance, Fortitude, Prudence, and Justice. Faith ,
Hope, Charity. All of these lessons are the same. even though diverse in
ritualistic presentation. Masonic organizations, however, don't have a
proprietary "lock" on these universal truths. Many organizations, and many
individuals who don't belong to any organization recognize the universality
of these moral and ethical concepts. And the target of these truths is also
the same. The target is some person who in his or her innermost self,
believes that he or she can make a difference.
A healthy society, one which values freedom and healthy growth, can't
exist without certain moral and ethical tenets to support and guide those of
whom it is composed, anymore than a Gothic cathedral could have been
erected in a satisfactory manner without a properly formed and laid
cornerstone to support the stones of which it was built.
Freemasonry, as well as each of its concordant and appendant bodies,
is composed of men and women who have chosen those moral and ethical
tenets to be their guide during their lives. We need not try to convert others
to our way of thinking through words. We need only to live our lives
according to the principles to which we obligated ourselves at the altars of
our various organizations, and by example we will attract those of like mind.
But whether they join one of our Masonic organizations or not, everyone,
--- I repeat, --- everyone who lives their life in accordance with those moral
and ethical concepts which we chose to call "Masonic ideals", is a part of
that "living stone" which serves as the cornerstone of our society.
With apology to our Ritual Committee, I would like to share with you the
mental interpretation which I hear every time I listen to the Master's Benediction which concludes every full form closing of a Masonic Lodge.

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

May the blessing of Heaven rest upon us and all who live their lives in
accordance with Masonic principles! May the Masonic tenet of Brotherly
Love prevail throughout the world, and every moral and social virtue cement
all who so live tlleir lives! Amen.
My friends, we --- all of us, whether a part of our great Masonic Family
or not --- have the potential to be the moral and ethical cornerstone of the
world in which we live. We --- all of us -- are the builders of the society of
tomorrow in which our children (so wonderfully represented by these Youth
Groups) will live, as well as the builders of the society of today. The future
can't be anything other than what the present builds it to be.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Jeannie Walls
Patricia Hunt
Davis B. Leonard
Robert K. Churchill
Wilbur H. Amberg
Ernest B. "Jay' Rider, Jr.
William Bodle

Olff Wilburn

21

Supreme Worthy Chaplain, Order of the
White Shrine of Jerusalem
Supreme Princess Badoura,
Daughters of the Nile
Potentate, Al Malalkah Shrine Temple
Potentate, Islam Shrine Temple
President, California State Association
of High Twelve Clubs
Representing the National Sojourners
Deputy Grand Monarch
The Grottos of North America
Pharaoh, Ancient Egyptian Order of Sciots

Let's Build Well'
Respectfully submitted,

VESPER SERVICE

James McDonald, Grand Orator

LEADERS OF CONCORDANT AND APPEND.A NT

Following the "Public Awareness" program, a Vesper Service was held,
conducted by the Grand Chaplain.

BODIES OF CALIFORNIA MASONRY

Organ Prelude

. Harold M. Hand

The following Masonic leaders were presented. introduced. and welcomed by Grand Master Sherod:

Invocation . . .

. . . Joe Jackson

C. Ned Richter

Eulogy: Euge}le S. Hopp, P.G.M.

Donald B. McCaw,

Necrology Report . . . . . . . . .

. Robert W. Moore

Grand Organist

Right Eminent Grand Commander of the
Grand Commandery, Knights Templar
Donald F. Anders
Grand Master of the Grand Council
of Cryptic Masons
Richard D. Kelly
Grand High Priest of the Grand Chapter
of Royal Arch Masons
Murray Cooke
General Grand Scribe, General Grand Chapter
of Royal Arch Masons
Vernon T. Fike
Past Grand Master, Allied Masonic Degrees
of the United States of America
Grand Governor of California, York Rite Sovereign College
Thomas W. Storer
Preceptor of New Covenant Tabernacle
Holy Royal Arch Knight Templar Priests
Excellent Chief, Connemara Council No. 39,
Knight Masons of Ireland
Harry L. Maynard, P.G .M.
President, The Robert the Bruce Association
of the Royal Order of Scotland
Erma Hodges
Grand Royal Matron of the
Grand Court of California, Order of the Amaranth
Harold Hagaman
Grand Royal Patron of the
Grand Court of California, Order of the Amaranth

Grand Chaplain
Past Grand Master
Chairman, Memorial Service Committee
Message ''That Which is Special"

. . . Joe Jackson

Benediction . . . . . . . . . . . .

. .. Joe Jackson

Grand Chaplain
Grand Chaplain

22

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

23

EULOGY
EUGENE S. HOPP, PAST GRAND MASTER
by Donald B. McCaw, Past Grand Master
The poet, Milton, describes death as the "golden key that o pens the
palace of eternity. "
Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp, a Master Mason, was one of the
outstanding men of our time: a scholar, a physician, a civic leader, and one
of the great Grand Masters of this jurisdiction. He was well prepared to give
a good account of his stewardship while here on earth and earned his place
in that palace of eternity when he passed to that place not made with hands,
eternal in the heavens on October 19th of last year.
Dr. Hopp was born in the State of New York; he received his Bachelor
of Science degree from the University of Georgia and matriculated to the
Georgia School of Medicine, where in 1937 he earned his Doctorate in
medicine. Our Brother was then selected from among his peers to continue
his Post-Graduate work at prestigious Oxford University on the Thames,
north and west of London.
Volunteering fo r military service in 1937, he later served as Chief of the
Eye, Ear, Nosf) and Throat Service of the 81 st General Hospital in the
European Theater of Operations during 1944 and 1945.
Upon his discharge from the military, he became a civilian consultant
to the Surgeon General of the United States Army and later to the United
States Air Force. He was Commander of San Francisco Chapter of the
Military Orders of World Wars, and a Life Member of American Legion, Rialto
Post No. 203.
Following his arrival in San Francisco, Dr. Hopp became Clinical Professor of Ear, Nose, and Throat disorders at the University of California and
later served as the President of the Staff of Hahnemann Hospital during the
years 1958 and 1959. He was a respected member of the Board of Directors
of the San Francisco Med ical Society and a fellow of the American College
of Physicians and Surgeons, as well as the Royal Society of Medicine in
England. Our Brother was named Professor Emeritus of the California
Med ical College in San Francisco in 1978.
Brother Gene was known for his great ability to retain knowledge and
he possessed a penetrating mind. These abilities earned membership in the

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

prestigious Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi Honor Societies. He was an
inventor as well and developed an instrument for the examination of the
larynx. He also received the George Washington Honor Medal Award from
the Freedom Foundation of Valley Forge.

recognizing the worthwhile things of life and then making those
same worthwhile things a part of our personal life.

Most Worshipful Brother Hopp was an author and a valued contributor
to numerous medical and scientific journals. He also was a highly respected
member and Past President of our Masonic Philalethes Society.
Brother Hopp was a member of the San Francisco Bible Breakfast Club,
the Rotary Club, and many other civic and professional organizations,
including the United Crusade of San Francisco, the Commonwealth Club,
and Goodwill Industries, to name a few.
Our Fraternity took particular pride in his long service as Commissioner
of the San Francisco Board of Education during a most difficult social era
in the history of this country and this city in particular; and to his great credit
and to the credit of all Freemasonry, he served as President of that Board
during some of it's most trying times.
Dr. Eugene Hopp was the Master of King Solomon-Seaport Lodge No.
260, which later consolidated with Starr King Lodge No. 344, and served this
jurisdiction with great distinction as it's Grand Master in 1967 and 1968. He
later became a member of Marin Lodge No. 191 in San Rafael.
Above all. Dr. Hopp exemplified the great qualities of men who are
outstanding among us. His character was such that his burdensome tasks
were never too important nor was his schedule too busy to help the less
fortunate. Among his many writings which received wide acclaim, he wrote
about "character" and told us:
"Character is the individual activation of brotherly love, relief and
truth, temperance. fortitude, prudence. justice and more. Character is only effective when it is activated. We can write about
character and we can read about it, but until we activate it, we
remain ordinary and untried . We alone make the personal decision
to develop a greater character for ourselves. or to be satisfied with
the status quo.
Now, character cannot be bestowed, bought or borrowed . It
belongs only to the man who develops it and, like rare wine, it
improves every year. Character is free to those who seek its
improvement for themselves; the effort in no way interferes with our
daily work or relaxation or family time. The effort consists of

25

It is a joy while we are here, happiness for our family; success for
ourselves; and, in the end. it bequeaths to everyone the greatest
wealth of all."
We honor and pay our respects to this man of great character and high
integrity. Those of us whose lives were touched by Dr. Eugene S. Hopp are
better men and women for it. No greater tribute can be paid to his memory.
So mote it be.

NECROLOGY REPORT
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Members of the Grand Lodge:
Since we last assembled here, in the house of the faithful, 502 members
of this Grand Lodge have joined the endless line of splendor of those who
have labored so long and so diligently erecting the Temple of Masonry in
the hearts of men. Their individual names will be inscribed upon the printed
record of this Annual Communication.
As the sur:i has set in the West for them. and they have laid down the
working tools from their tired hands, it is for us who survive them. to take up
those emblematic tools and continue to erect that spiritual building whose
construction never ends.
There is none assembled here who does not cherish the memory of a
Brother Mason who influenced his life for the better. He signed your petition.
he was your coach, he was the Master who raised you: but most of all, he
was a man who set an example which you found worthy of imitation.
These men were by birth, human, by character, gentlemen . by love.
husbands and fathers, and by choice. they were Masons. As Masons. they
were charged to practice the domestic and public virtues, to govern their
llves, their thoughts and their conduct according to the great moral duties
Incumbent upon all who wear the lambskin as the badge of a Mason.

As they were members of this sovereign Grand Lodge, so were they
leaders of Masons as was said of our Ancient Athenian Brethren. "None
served with more honor than these, yet many served and there was much
honor."

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Finally, my Brethren, let us honor and eulogize the memory of those
who have passed on the perfection in the most practical and meaningful
way that is possible for us - by exemplifying in our actions those immutable
principles to which they dedicated their lives.

PAST MASTERS, MASTERS AND WARDENS
OF CONSTITUENT LODGES -- DECEASED
Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
1 Grace, Paul V.
.7-19·90
Schmid, Julius J .
.7·26-90
• Peters, Robert S.
.9·17-90
' Perry, Nelson A.
. 11·30-90
• Watson , Arnold W. . . . . .. 1-1 9-91
2 Oerbo, Albert L. ..• • • . . . 9-22-90
3 Archer, Clarence D. . . . . • .5-10-91
5 Roy, Walter C. . . . .
. 11-14-90
8 Ortega, Theodore R. . . . . 11-19-90
" Burden, Henry P. . • . . . .. 12-3-90
• Richards , John o. . . . . . .2·26-91
• Dawson, Paul E. • • . . . . . . 7-23-90
10 Vaughan, Malvern A. . • . . . 9-1·90
Lancaster. Raymond J . . . . . 4- 16-91
12 Hust, Sydney . . . • . . . . 10-20·90
13 Butts, Frederick A.
. 12-10·90
14 Maib. Charles E.
. .9·18·90
• Burgess, William H.
. 5.4.91
16 Broocks, Henry T. . .
.10·6·90
17 Malfanti, Raymond J.
.2·28-91
' Sage , Ives C.
. . 1991
' Saparar, Jean B.
.7·12-90
18 Huelsdonk, L.L. . . . . . . . . 5-3·91
23 Fisher. Ernest E. . . . . . . .5· 15-91
24 Lambert, Harold V. . . . . . . 5-19-91
Smith, Edward C. . . . . . .. 3-31-91
26 Cain, Robert H. . . . . . . . 2-28-gl
30 Kieler, Carl H. . • . . . • . .6-22·90
• Armour, Eugene J. • . • . .7-29-90
• Huth, Otto C. . . . . . . . . 11 ·2·90
' Clark, Raymond E.
. 12-10-90
' Van Heekeren, Robert
. 1·29-91
• Pastorini , Dante A.
.2-25-91
• Kujawa, Floryan A.
. 3-3·91
Wierda, Gerald H.
.3-21 -91
• Magrini, John . . . . . . . ..3·28-91
32 Lopez , Lee
. . . . . . . 2-20-91
33 Boles. Robert W.
. . 6-4-91
Allsman , Lewis S. . . . . . . 12-23-90

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
45 Stone, Victor C.
5-18-91
46 Frincke. Milton M.
. . . . 10-29-90
' Rogers, Philo . .
. .•• 10-22-90
50 Greene, Osborne B.
. . • • 8-19-90
• Brown , Roy L. . . . . . . . . 12-4-90
55 Garben, Arthur
.• 3·3-91
57 Cooper, Lester B. . .
1·26-91
59 Messelt, Warren S.
9· 15-89
60 Elworthy, Clarence F.
• 4-5-91
64 Scott, George M.
. 5-3-91
" Ackeret, Raymond L.
4-17-91
68 Weber, Elias S. . . .
. 8-2-90
78 Conger, Harry . . . .
2-24-91
80 Lawrence . Lee M. . .
. 6-8-91
81 Stokesberry, Thomas P.
3-10-91
103 Hodson, Walter A. • • .
4-29-91
• Corley, Paul K. • . . . . . . . 1.4.91
' Henderson, Frank M.
. 10-26-90
104 Luthy, Christian S.
. . 12-13-90
106 Graham , Raymond J . . .. .. 1· 1·91
• Hagelskamp, Gerald J. . .• 5-19-91
113 Richardson , Harold B.
8-28·90
• Fowler, Lyle F. . . . . . . . . 1-30-91
Erskine , Robert D.
4-29-91
120 Mintz, Irvin C. . . . . . . . . 1-17·91
122 Hall, Ransome B. .. . . . • 6-13·90
• Johnston, David G.
. . . . . 8-1·90
" Wilson, James W. . . • . .. 11 -18· 90
124 Dunham, Harry E. . . .. •. 7-16-90
• Larison, Leonard J. . • . . . 7-26-90
• Mount, William G. . . . . . . 1·28-91
• Noble . John W. . . .
4-16-91
129 McDevitt, Thomas J. . . . . 11-30-90
134 'Nhitten , Osie K. . . .
. . 12-24-90
136 Burgess. William H.
. 5-4-91
139 Cooper, Nathan 8. . . . . • 7-11-90
Rushton, Donald A.
6·30·90
" Ingmire, Charles W.
. 10-26-90
" Johnson, Robert M .
12·9·90

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
" Mellinger, DeMarr
. 1-28-91
• Schaich, Louis G.
. 3-6-91
" Sench, James 0 .
.3-19-91
141 Archer, Clarence D.
. . . . 5-10-91
" Piper, Gordon C.
. .•. 8-7-90
146 Copsey, Lumin . . . . . . . .9-13-90
• Orr, Fred W. . . . • . . . . .• 5-7-91
147 Andrain , Milton D. . • • .•. .8·20-90
• Johnson, Sr., Kent M . . • • . . 2-14·91
• Reese, Curtis D. • . . . . . .3-23-91
164 Underwood, Delvin T.
. . . .6-15-91
• Fournier, Andrew L.
. . . . 7- 14-90
167 Melhase, Fred . . .
. . . . 1-25-91
" Gilford , Richard H.
. 10-31-90
168 Harper, George W.
. ..8-13-90
• Blecher, Norman C.
. .. 12-3-90
• Sherman , Alchie R.
. • . 3-3-91
169 Batchelor, Robert P.
• .. 10·30·90
179 Moore, William F.
. .8·29·90
• Peterson , Robert
. . . 11-24-90
180 Hughes, Arthur A.
. . . .3·25·91
181 Andrews, Myron
.. 8-14-90
184 Webber, Donald W.
.. 7-10·90
" Turner. Gerie A . .
. 12-16·90
185 Hendricksen , Fred
. . 9-3-90
188 Jory, Sr., Melvin L. . . . . . .9-27-90
190 Wolf, Clayton J.
. •. 6-13-91
191 Hopp, Eugene S.
. 10-19·90
192 Pedersen, Otto F.
. 12·16-90
• Page, A. Leonard
.• 3-7-91
195 Morgan , Edgar P.
. • 6-3-91
' Mast, Lowell E.
. . . 11- 19-90
198 Triplett. Wayne A.
. . .. 3·21 -91
• Smale, Ralph A
. . .. 1-24-91
• Harrington , Perry E.
. . . . 5-5·91
201 Barker. Denten C.
. . . . . .3-19-91
' Warren , Claude J. . . . . . . . 4-3-90
202 Winslow. Randolph P.
. . 11 ·28-90
• Wallace, Lawrence G.
. . . . 6-1·90
' Zumwalt, Wallace B.
. . . . 1-19-91
204 Rice. Darius E.
. .. 10-17-90
206 Case, Allred F.
. .. . . 5-14·91
• Thrasher, Richard F. . . . . .6-12-91
207 Campbell, Robert L. . . . .. 9-29-90
• Luther, Roy . . . . . . . . 10-24-90
' Smith , Robert E.
. .. 12-15-90
• Hughes. William A.
.1 ·1 0-91
209 Jones, Chestina E. • .
.7-27-90
210 Britton, Lloyd A. . . . •
.7-30-90
' Hoyt, Frank L. . • . . .
. 8·3·90
• Johnson. Oliver M.
. . 9.9.90
• Hammrick, Eugene E.
. 10- 16-90
' Corbin, ElmerJ. . . . .
. .11-1-90

27

lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
• Anderson, Alan G.
. 11-30-90
" Talley, Harley A.
12-7-90
" Keltner, Kurt . . .
. . . 11 -2-90
" Robinson . Fred
. . . 11-20-90
• Townsend, Donald H.
•• . 11-25-90
" Johnston, Sr .. John 8.
1-25-91
" Veteran , Leonard J.
1-31-91
" Klein . Theodore P.
2·17-91
• Grimm, William C.
3-14-91
• Bailey, Curtis S.
3-19-91
• Schmidt, Henry W.
5-15-91
" Lea, Leland E. . . .
6-13-91
" Colvin, Reginald T.
. . . 6-4-91
212 Coombs, Donald H. . .
. .. 6-7·90
• Gardner, Clarence M.
6-26-90
214 Eakins. Warren H. . . . . . 6-27-91
215 Buzolich , Joseph L. . . . •. 12-4·90
221 Fisher. Robert W. . . . . . . 11-23-90
• Bell, Russel A. . . • . • • . . 2-23-91
224 Kliewer, Samuel J .
. 10-28-90
• Townsend , Avery P.
6-10-91
225 Ma1hiesen, Searl T.
10-9-90
" Johnson, Elmer W.
. 11-18-90
228 S1iles, Eugene W. . . .
3·23-91
232 Roberts , Joseph S. . .
2-27-91
233 Fox, Jr.• William A.
8-Z0-90
" Tamabni . Sr.. Walter E.
9-28-90
236 Hass. Robert J.
• . . 5-7-91
237 Chandler, John S. . . .
7-27-90
242 Kieth. James B. . . . .
12·8·90
" Ewing. Jr., William J.
. 5-8-91
" Church, Jr., Grant
1-10-91
243 Feather , Leon W.
. 1-8-91
244 Searcy, William G.
1-27-91
" Misner, Wilber L.
4-13-91
245 Ossenbriiggen , Harry H.
. 1-3-91
247 Stevens. William H. . .
3-16-91
254 Scheer , Raymond P.
. 11·11-90
• Bryceson . Albert A.
. 4·9-91
255 Agee . Robert W. . . •
. 1-8-91
" Nesbitt, Thomas M
6-29-91
258 Healy, Allon 0.
2-11-91
" Nute, Frank A. . . . .
2·29·90
• Pedlar. Marion E.
. 12-11-90
264 Trefts, Kenne1h E. . . .
. 3· 1·91
" Wisener, William D.
. 9-5·90
269 Phillips. Loyd D. . .
3-12-91
• Schwenk , Gerald J.
4-18-91
272 Ludlow. George A.
2-14-91
273 Newtson. Theodore M.
. 10-23·90
• Mooney. Belt R. . . .
4-22·91
• Dave npo11. Lynn W.
6·18·91
" Clancy. Dana L. . • .
6-24-91

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
274 Bacon, Warren L.
.4-17-90
Sevier, Raymond A.
.10-8-90
277 Shirley, Vernon L.
.9·22-90
278 Coleman, Fredweick
.7·29-90
Rogers . James E.
.8-23·90
Suppe, George H . . .
.8-30-90
Call, Leigh N.
.2-24-91
Spencler. Harold V.
.3-20-91
279 Winn , Marshall A. ...
.2-13-91
281 Samuelson, Edward A.
. 4-20-90
. 7.4.90
286 Moss , Alonzo D. . .
287 Evens, William B.
.4-10-91
Lloyd, Standford F.
.4-22-91
Allison, Archie G.
.6-25-91
294 Gillette, Grant A.
. 4-4-91
Stevenson. Frank 0 .
. 6-8-91
Little, William A.
. .1 1-2-90
296 Bain , John . . . • • • . •.. 5-15-91
297 Lindt, Percy W. ....
. 1-1-91
Evenson . Lawrence G.
.. 4-1 -91
Newton, Lawrence E.
. 10-23-90
300 Hook, Laurel D.
. 8·16-90
.5-15-91
303 Stphen, Louis R.
.6-18-91
" Rachford, Nolan E.
305 Bouchard, Gordon H.
. 8-15·90
Franks, Ivan L. . .
. 3-31-91
306 Knutson , Arhtur R.
. 1-1 5-91
307 Boggs, John C.
. 12·10-90
• • • 7-3-90
308 Sears, Charles W.
312 Zentner, Otto
• 4-8·91
313 Birt, John H. • . • . •
. ' 5-6-91
314 Thomas, Kenneth A.
. . 6-30-91
315 Plunkett. Jr., John S.
. 10-23-90
" Meader, Robert H.
'12-31·90
Linke, Robert D.
. . 3-11-91
316 Imrie, George A . . .
. 10-13-90
Patillo, David T.
. .1-25-91
317 Cunningham , Marion H.
.4-11·91
320 Smith, William D.
. . . .5-26-91
322 Hamel, John H.
. . 9-4-90
Deweese , Sr., Samuel C.
.7-17-90
Calfee, Maurice E.
. 10-5-90
Higbie. Elmer S.
. 12-29-90
323 Moseley, Edward P.
. 3·8-91
Cook. Harold C. . .
.3-15-91
333 Caldwell, Karl J . . .
. 3-5-91
335 Weisman , Joseph H.
. 5-7-91
337 Nicholson, Howard C .
.4-25-91
343 Anderson, Gordon 0 .
.2-21-91
344 Wickens , Leslie A. .
.4-12-91
Fish, Nian H.
.5·20·91
Anderson, Lester F.
5-25-91
348 Mackey, Charles B.
. 12-19·90

.
...
.

..

. ...

..
..

.

..

....

.
.

..

.

.

.

..
.
....

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
351 Burris, Glenn Q.
3-14-91
4-25-91
" Allee, John M.
352 Kretschmer, William P.
' 9-8-90
.12-31-90
" Mitchell, Louis M.
Smith, Cletus 0 . ..
'12-27·90
355 Glazier, Corydon J.
9·20-90
Lamson, John M .
1-29-90
363 Thomas, Harvey G.
2-26-90
Young, Kenneth D.
. 6-8-90
Leak , Jack H .
. 6-8-90
365 Simon, Richard
7-13-90
Harper, George W.
8-18-90
Smith, Lawrence E.
. 12- 10-90
Steadman, Bruce B.
4-25-91
366 Hall, James 0.
. 4-4-91
367 Hockersmith, Wendell F.
7-15-90
Fulcher. Raymond
4-10-91
368 Mcveigh , John J.
. 5-4-91
Miller, William G. .
2-11 -91
Kiefer, Carl H. ..
6-25-90
369 Kilgore , Lindsay P.
10-3-90
372 Harris, John T. . .
' 12-21-90
373 Taylor. Howard J.
.11-17·90
376 Fox, Arthur W.
8·20-90
377 Wright, George A.
2-12-91
Stead, James L.
3-15-91
Parry, Fred J.
. 4-2-91
'
379 Chaney, John W.
3·17-91
380 Taytor, Edward S.
4-17-91
4-25-91
381 Folsom. Myron W.
7.29.90
388 Dominelli, Sergio V.
8-23-90
" Guthertz, Harry M.
" Jenkinson, Donald W.
12·5·90
" Petersen, Robert E.
12-6-90
Sligar, Alva V.
1-18-91
Robso n , Stanley .
3- 13-91
Faber, Fred E. . .
3-30-91
389 Gerbig, William G.
7-10-90
Tule, Karl G. . ..
. 12·28-90
Bean . Raymond A.
• 1-2-91
390 McMurphy, Willie E.
. 3-6-91
394 Childers , Earl E. ..
7-30-90
395 Bowers , Henry S.
11 -4-90
395 Dempsey, Chester J.
11·5·90
Doherty. Frank E.
. 11-20-90
Stanton, Kenneth M.
. 5-2·90
Thau , Emil C. . ...
10-9-90
400 Anderson , Edward E.
4-29-91
Smith. Lawrence E.
3-13-91
402 Pumphrey, Sr., Frederick B.
7-1 3-90
403 Belfiore, Thomas J.
. 1-4-91
Frane , Clarence F.
. 11-24·90
404 Hoffman, Jr., John C.
' . 6-5-91

..

.
..
...

..

.
.

.....

.

..

..

.

...
..

...
.
.

..

Lodge
Date of
Name
Death
No.
. 7-5-90
405 O'Brien, Frank M.
Cook, John C. . .
. 1-5-90
.3·15-91
406 Headington, Marion L.
. 10-29-90
407 Shaw, Jr., Lorenzo H .
Haslam, John D .
. . 12-5-90
. 10-10-90
408 Schwinn, Joseph L.
Wilhite , John F .
. . 3-25-91
. . 6-5-9 1
411 Jenkins, Reuben B .
Davenport, Lynn W .
. . 6-18-91
Spencer, R. Harvey
. 10-22-90
Schumacher, Richard C.
. 7-3-90
415 Garf, Eugene
.8-16-90
.4-10-91
" Wh ite, Howard C.
. 5-3-91
418 Taylor, Henry A.
. 12-10-90
420 Stadler, Frank W.
421 Allee, John M. ..
. . 4-25-91
.11-16-90
422 Clarke, Richard H .
ten Brink, Eugene T. R.
. 1-25-91
Surber, Donald L. . . . . . . .3-29-91
Crebs, Frederick H.
.3-31-91
McNutt, Ronald J.A.
' 5·9-91
.8-11-90
428 Martin, Richard C..
. 7.4.90
Smart, William P.
. 1-26-91
429 Richards, Lester A.
1-8-91
431 Brown, Jack R.
437 Jaqua, Lee S. ...
. 7-7-90
Saylor. Otis C. . ..
. 10-19-90
Vaughn, Clarence T.
. 12-15-90
439 Turk , Roben G . ...
.. 1-13-91
441 Gifford. Richard H .
. 10-31-90
444 McWhirter, James B .
. 11-13-90
Cravens , Marcus E.
. 8-3-90
.7-13-90
445 Jochimsen , Edmond W.P.
Wallace, Edwin H.
. 2·6·91
447 Schmidt, Frank
.9-24-90
Powell , George C..
. 10-30-90
Morgan, Homer B.
.3·20-91
. 10-6-90
448 Matheson, Ludwell B.
Buchanan , James R.
.6-21-91
7.4.90
451 O 'Bryan . James W.
462 Lemoge , Roy C . ..
8-3·90
Jensen, Joseph F.
9-4-90
Kujawa. Floyran A.
3-3-91
465 Stallings, Warren 0 .
2-5-91
466 Minner, Carlton W.
2-7-91
467 Barber, William F.
.2-29-91
469 Elvy, Leonard G.
.1 -17-91
475 Feree, John B.
. 5-3-91
480 Costa, Alfred L.
.7-16-90
Pinska, Walter T .
. 3-5-91
483 Kinkade , Hershael L.
. 12-28-90
485 Wilkerson , Roy
. 4·15·91
493 Brownlee . Cheste r
. . 5-22-91

.

.

.
..
.

..

..

...
.

.

..

.

.

..
.

..

..

.

..

29

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
Kunkee, Azor F.
11 -2-90
501 Vache, Leslie
. 2-9-91
502 Stevens, Hanuel E.
4-22-9 1
7-25-90
505 Shield, Dallasy R.
Reed, Kenneth W
.9-29-90
Scott, Roy C.
3-24-91
Bosworth, Curt N.
4-19-91
. • • • 7-9-90
506 Hollister, William E.
Passamaneck, Carl S.
7-20-90
Schaefer, Keith H .
7-27-90
Ellsworth, Kenneth C .
. 1-2-91
511 Paviso, Louis J,
7-26-90
512 Smith , Jr., Donovan A.
. 2-1-91
" McGattey, Stanley L.
. 6-1-90
518 Dillin, Hiram G .
7-27-90
520 Raab, Bernard H.
1-13-91
Baer, Melvin .. .
2-21-91
Krepack, Harold
• • 5-3-91
521 Miller, Charles C.
9-22-90
.
Page, Oliver M .
. 1-5-91
Woods , Edwrd K.
8-10-90
524 Sargent, William G .
5-23-91
2-17-91
529 St ern, David S.
533 Quinn, Robert T.
8-15-9 1
6-20-9 1
" Berlowe, Alvin M.
535 Pitman, Jr., Warren S.
6-30-91
540 Patterson , Kenneth R.
9-19-90
542 Totman, Russell, A.
. 10-16-90
544 Johnson. John D. . .
4-19-91
1-22-91
..
548 Andersen , Hans
551 Huttstutter, Kenneth M .
. 8-7-90
Moreland, Ralph H .
' 7-2-90
5-20-91
" Drasky, Al bert P.
4-29-91
552 Hodson, Walter R.
555 Mills, Robert M .
6-18-91
551 Hard in Granville
6 ·28-91
. 12-27-90
554 Schoenfeld, Lester t.
557 Smith, Frank E. ..
. 4-2-91
559 Buckley, Milton C.
2-13-91
Koontz, Everette A.
. 1.o-g1
572 Smith, Edward E.
8-16-90
2-14-91
575 Nesbitt, Edward W.
Merrill, Arthur B.
.11-19-90
579 Moore, Clarence R.
.. 3-7-91
. 12-27-90
582 Brandt, Jr ., Raymond W.
Eubank, Verner B.
9-15-90
1-10-91
583 Little, Malcolm J.
. 11-29-90
585 Anderson, Gilbert J .
591 Clark, Wyman M.
8-31-90
. 11 · 18-90
592 Stewart, Charles S.
' Werbe , Arthur P. .
11-1-90
. 12-10-90
595 Jan, Peter
7-15-90
595 Squires, Jessie A.

.

...
...

..

..

. ..

.
..

.

.
.

..

.

..

.

. . ..

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

lodge
No.
Name
Brassell, Jr., Richard T .
Knapp, Glenn L.
Croak, Lester J.
600 Jacobi, Sr., Charles M.
Skelton, Alfred E.
601 Hibbs, Jr., Loy E. - - 615 Barker, Brady
616 San-Filippo, Carl - - 617 Seymour, Raymond H.
Bouyere , Jules
Butts, Frederick A.
618 Spicer, Billy J. . . .
Sherrel, John F.
" Lehman, Everett
621 Kaprielian, Harry ..
" Robbins, Mel
626 Reynolds, Homer E.
627 Jacobson , Kermit A
" Pompey, Harry E.
" Mohn, William G.
" Alntz. Christian B.
" Lowe, Paul H.
" Lloyd, Alva J. . .
629 Ewing, Rodger C.
632 Lederle, Royal A.
" Middlested, Paul E. ...
633 Demoor, Jr., Jules J.
634 Rodgers. William L. - 635 Schomberg, Harold J.
639 Rosen , Hymen J.
644 Nardell i, Dominic
651 Coffey, Rollinson F.
653 Riches, William M.
656 White, Wil liam H. - 657 Carroll, Howard C.L.
" Baines, Elmer T.
658 Tennis, George A.
668 Siddons, Gordon W.
670 Ball, Kenneth L.
671 Holt, Roahlavay
674 Rose, Irvin .....
675 Coleman, Harold H ..
" Heim, Calvin L.
677 Merrick, Waldo K.
680 Ward, Tommie R.
681 Howard, Ray J.
685 Eikenberry, Russell
Vaccariello, Nick A.
686 Hulsey, Elmer 8.
" Lower, Ted J. ..... '
690 Pedersen, Alfred R.
Pratt, Roben T.
693 Christy, Claude C.

..
.
.
..
.

....
....

.. .

..

..

.

Date of
Death
. 11·16·90
'1·31-91
.. 5-25-91
' .2-22-91
.. 10-9-90
.3-13-91
. 10-31-90
.. 5-15-91
. .3-13-91
.. 1-14-91
. 12-10-90
.10-11-90
- 10-25-90
.5-28-91
.4-20-91
.6-13-91
1-2-91
.10-1-90
. 12-29-90
. 12-31-90
1-6-91
5-6-91
6-3-91
7.3.90
.10-1-90
.12-2-90
. 12-18-90
. 12-28-90
.6-26-91
.1-19-91
.1-16-91
.12-2-90
. 10-25-90
- . 5-6-91
.6-16-90
. 10-29-90
.2·28-91
.2-28-91
. 12-10-90
.5-19-91
. 2-8-91
.7-13-90
.3-17-91
. 10-13-90
.7-15-90
.3-10-91
.7-10-90
2-9-91
.. 12-3-90
. . 5-9-91
- 1-11-91
.6-29-91
.4-30-91

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
701 Iversen, Alne
6·15·91
707 Nelson, Eugene L.
- 8-4-90
8-15-90
" Christen, Wilbert E.
5-15-91
Robertson, Andrew G.
4-14-91
McGregor, William R.
711 Kloptenstein, Loyal
. . . . • 5-8·91
712 Evertt, Robert S. - - - - - - - 11-17-90
717 Angus, Harold P.
1·12·91
2·16-91
721 Swartzman, Meyer M.
2-24-91
" Banks, William R.
. 6-1-91
Glick, Seymour E.
Tribich, David
. 6-9-91
Price, Lester
....
6-15-91
724 Diamond, Ernest E.
8-14-90
Von Wald, Leonard 8.
6-21-91
735 Almstrong, Curtis F .. . . - .• 1-3-91
736 Icenogle, Otis F.
- - - - - 4-2-91
741 Dean, Jr., John H.
3-24-91
1-13-91
" Hanna, Lorenzo C.
Mendenhall, James I. .... 7-23-90
747 Mowery, Scott H.
..... - 9-3-90
750 Foate, Walter G. ....... 3-30-91
752 Estes, Norman J.
. .... 5-18-91
Tomasello, Matthew S. . . - • 4-9-91
7-23-90
756 Hope, John W.
3-24-91
" Martin, William J.
. . 9-2-90
760 Doan, Almond M.
771 Yates, James W.
.10-27-90
. . 6-3-91
" Allen, Ulan S.
775 Santom, Thomas 8 . ..... 7-26-90
. .. 12-15-90
" Hough, Samuel J.
" Sherilla, James M. . . . . . • 16-1-91
5-31-91
780 Streit, Thomas K.
786 Klaiber, Robert W.
. 10-13-90
788 Morgan, Byrd M.
3-26-91
795 Snyder, Clois W.
. . 3-6-91
797 Conception, Marcelo E. - 3-24-91
. 12-10-90
800 Jan, Peter ....
802 Funon, Alexander F.
. 4·1-91
Dalton , Carl C.
1-14-91
1-14-91
824 Hackett, Frederick S.
. 3-7-91
" Vital, Francisco R.
827 Helmuth, Henry B.
- - - - 10-29-90
4-30-91
830 Hennagin, George T.
837 Kern, George C.
3-10-91
Cooper, M. Gerry
1-21-91
840 Tribich, Daivd ..
. 6-9-91

..

..
.
.
.

.

..
....

...
..

.

.
.

....

31

Respectfully submitted,
Robert W. Moore, Chairman
Chester Rogers
Eugene J. Armour

John E. Wallace
Robert N. Deter

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ONE HUNDRED FORTY-SECOND
ANNUAL COMMUN ICATION
Th.e One Hundred Forty Second Annual Communica tion of the Most
~orshrpful Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of the State of CaliforMonday, October 14, 1991, A. L. 5991, in
nia co~me~ced at ~:00 a. m.
t~e California Masonic Memorial Temple, located in San Francisco, California, preceded by an organ recital by the Grand organist.

?n

The opening session of the Annual Communica tion was raised by Daniel
J. Thom, Master of Bixby Knolls-Neptu ne Lodge No. 699, the Lodge of the
Grand .Master using a gavel presented by that Lodge, and the Grand
Master ~other Lodge, International City Lodge No. 389, on the occasion of
a receptron at the Petroleum Oub in Long Beach. Other gavels used during
the Mo~day morning. session were those presented by Phoenix Lodge No.
178 at its 125th Anniversary, the 606th Masonic District reception for the
Grand ~aster and a reception for the Grand Standard Bearer by his Lodge
'
Kern River Valley.

~pan the call of the roll the following Grand Lodge officers, elected and

appointed, Past Grand Masters and Past Grand officers responded :

W :.Thomas G. Mc Kinney
W :. Arnold C. Happel . . .
W :. William J. Schlichting
W:.Steven H. Potter . .
W : .Leonard l. Todd . .
W:. lsidoro A. Regalado
w :.Ellsworth L. Moynier
W :.Harold W. Denney
W :. Harold M. Hand
W : .John Redd ick .

33

. . . Grand Standard Bearer
. Grand Sword Bearer
. . Grand Bible Bearer
. Senior Grand Deacon
. Junior Grand Deacon
Senior Grand Steward
Junior Grand Steward
. Grand Pursuivant
. Grand Organist
. . . . Grand Tiler

PAST GRAND MASTERS
M :. W :. Robert 0 . West
M:.W :. Harry L. Maynard

M:. W :. Edward H. Siems
M:.W : .Henry C. Clausen
M:. W:. Theodore Meriam
M:.W:. Myron E. Smith
M:. W:. Lester S. McElwain
M:.W:. William H. Price
M :. W:. Raymond A. Ebbage
M :. W:.Donald B. Mc Caw
M:. W: .Sam M. Pavlovich

M:.W:. E.Arthur Haglund
M :. W:.RoyJ . Henville
M :.W :.John W. Driskell
M:.W:.Jack R. Levitt
M:.W :. Leo B. Mark
M :. W:. Stanley L. Channon

PAST GRAND OFFICERS
ELECTED OFFICERS
M :. W:.Ronald A. Sherod
R:.W:.Stanley M. Cazneau~ .. . . . . . .. ·
R:. W:.R. Stephen Doan ..
R :. W :. Warren J. Blomseth
V :.W:.Henry H.P. Wilkins .
V :.W:.Robert A. Klinger . . . . . . . . . . .
V :. W.-. Ulysses G. Patropulos . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . Grand Master
. Deputy Grand Master
. Senior Grand Warden
. Junior Grand Warden
. . . .Grand Treasurer
.Grand Secretary
. . . . Grand Lecturer

APPOINTED OFFICERS
V:.R:.Joe Jackson ..
W :.Edward P. Margherio
W :. Howard E. Moore
W :. Paul D. Henning .
W:.Reuben F. Herrold
W :. Samuel E. Harris .
W :.Edwin A. Robinson
W :.James McDonald .
W :. Dale L. St. Claire
W:.H. Francis Lewis
W:.Rodney H. Davis

. . . . . . .
· · · . .

. · · . . . .

. Grand Chaplain
. A.G.L Division I
.A.G.L. Division II
.A.G.L Division Ill
. A.G.L. Division IV

. . . . . . A.G.L. Division V

. . .. .. . . . .. .. . . . A.G.L. Division VI
. . . . . . . . . Grand Orator
· . . . . .
.. Assistant Grand Treasurer
. Assistant Grand Secretary
. . . . . . . . Grand Marshal

. Past Grand Treasurer
V:.W :. Ralph H. Head
V :. W :. Verne W. Hendrix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Past Grand Secretary
V:.W :.Joe Hammond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Past Grand Lecturer
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F.& A.M. of California was opened
in ample form with the Grand Master presiding. The flag of our Country was
formally received and presented at the altar, after which the assembled
Brethren joined in the Pledge of Allegiance .
Present during the Communica tion were all 28 Grand Lodge officers,
17 Past Grand Masters, 3 Past Grand officers, 925 Lodge Officers and
representatives from 467 Lodges. 500 Past Masters, 116 District Inspectors,
237 Grand Lodge Co mmitteeman , 106 Past Master Sec retaries, other Lodge
Secretaries totaling 77, 239 Master Masons not members of Grand Lodge
and 37 visitors from sister jurisdictions of whic h 9 were Grand Masters, a
total attendance of 2,285 .
APPOINTM ENTS
Appointed to the Distribution of Committee were David A. Poole, Jr. as
Chairman and Past Grand Secretary Verne W. Hendrix.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LETTERS

MESSAGE OF THE GRAND CHAPLAIN

The Grand Master instructed the Grand Secretary to send appropriate
letters to the seven Past Grand Masters who were unable to be present at
the Communication.

Years ago, and of course I am now at the age I can say "years ago," I
had the distinct privilege of working with Dr. Orin Whitton minister of
Christian churches here in California. One day he was telling me of a man
he had met who claimed to be an atheist. Dr. Whitton said he asked the
man, "You mean to say that you have no religious beliefs? That in itself is a
strong belief. Or to say that you surmise that. sometime in the past there
was this great explosion and that this rock was hurled out into a vacuum,
started to spin, and now millions of years later we have "Disneyland"? You
really believe there is no plan or greater guidance than man here on earth?"
"Well," said the man, "maybe there is something stronger than just man in
control." "Oh!", then Dr. Whitton said, "you might say that you are an
Agnostic." ''That's it," replied the man. "I'm an Agnostic." "Now we're getting
someplace," replied Dr. Whitton. "What kind of an Agnostic do you believe
you are?" 'What do you mean, 'What kind of Agnos.ti~ am I?'. 1. don't
understand." Then the man was asked if he was a Christian Agnostic or a
Jewish Agnostic, Mohammedan. "What don 't you believe?" Let's say that
from the beginning of time, people were able to record their knowledge, and
of all this knowledge stored in all the books in all the libraries in all the world,
how much of this knowledge do you personally have? Maybe, one tenth of
one hundredth of one percent? Then with just this much knowledge how
can we say something did or did not happen in the past or what is written
Is true or false. Here my friend is where Faith comes in, that which we do
not know we take on faith and with faith comes love and trust, and if we do
not have love and trust, or lets call it faith, we would, as some people do live
behind a wall of mistrust. They fancy th emselves as the "holders of the truth,"
but let me say here loud and clear that love, peace and harmony can only
come from the searchers of the truth, for we find that throughout history,
"The beholders of the truth seem to always want to defend, and sometimes
very violently, this truth that they believe they hold."

34

GAVELS
The Grand Master announced that the various gavels he would use
during the sessions of the Communication, except the opening session on
Monday morning and which were presented to him on special occasions
during his term of office would be as follows:
Anniversaries -- 40th Anniversary of the Greenleaf Masonic Temple,
125th Anniversary of Petaluma Hamilton Lodge No. 180.
Cornerstone Laying Ceremonies -- Stockton Human Services Building,
Stockton; Fallbrook Lodge, Fallbrook: Patton State Hospital. George
Washington Battles School, Santa Maria: Juan Pacifico Ontiveros School,
Santa Maria.
Receptions -- 570th and 574th Masonic District, Sacramento Area
Masonic Officers Associations, Bell Lodge 483 and the 592nd Masonic
District, 610th and 611th Masonic District, Bixby Knolls-Neptune Lodge No.
699 and International City Lodge No. 389 at Long Beach.
Various -- 210th District Annual Western Barbecue at Davis.

35

Our Masonic Fraternity teaches us brotherly love, relief and truth and
with these basic teaching our Fraternity has sustained itself throughout the
ages. But, of these I believe ''The Greatest of These is Love." Love is neither
Inherited or granted, but rather, learned and earned. The more we learn
about love, the more we are able to love. The more love we give the more
love we will receive. We never out grow the need for love. It has been said
that the opposite of love is "Hate." I don't believe that. I believe that the
opposite of love is "Apathy." To hate you must have feelings, to have apathy,
you have nothing, you just don't care. Apathy is the greatest destroyer of
all our emotions. Apathy can and does destroy friendships, marriages,
rellglons, governments, countries and it could destroy our great Masonic
Fraternity. If we truly love our Masonic Fraternity the lets support it. If we

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

hate it, then let us change it, but, whatever we do, don't let apathy take our
great Masonic Fraternity away from us.

them in this wondertul effort," and the people came by the numbers. Soon
the people said, "We must get organized, have rules and by-laws, elect
officers and let us replace this little station with a building wort hy of our
membership, " and this they did. The new station was built, complete with
hospital rooms, replaced the cots with new hospital beds, tiled the fl oors
and built a lovely new meeting room for the new membership. Soon the
members said , "Our membership is to prestigious to risk their lives trying to
save people in these rough waters," so they proposed that the club hire the
lifesaving done, and this they did. Soon after on a stormy night there was
a terrible shipwreck. Many of the ships' crew were saved and brought into
the new hospital facilities ; however, they were all wet, dirty, oily, some were
bleeding, they just generally made a mess of the new facility. The membership was very upset over the mess the survivors had left, so they agreed to
build a little shack outside and away from their new facility where survivors
could be cleaned up before being brought into the new facility. The original
four men said, "The membership had forgotten what the original intent and
purpose of the lifesaving station was built for. " The four men left, took their
little boat, went over to the next rocky point, built a little shack and started
their lifesaving operation anew. Again they were successful and again their
notoriety spread far and wide, and the people said, "This is good and we
must join them," and they came by the numbers, and again the people said,
'We must get organized, we need rules, by-laws, a new building and of
course our new building must be bigger and better than the one on the other
point," and so it came to pass.

As your Grand Chaplain the question of some of the churches anacking
our Fraternity arises quite often in conversations with the Brethren. Because
one of our prerequisites is a belief in God and we give thanks to the almighty
during our assemblies, some make reference to us as a church or a cult,
these are the beholders I referred to in the beginning of my talk. In Masonry
I believe that the reference to God can be best denoted in a quotation from
the writings of John D. Rockefeller where he wrote, "I believe in an all wise
and all loving God, named by whatever name, and that the individuals
highest fulfillment, greatest happiness and widest usefulness are to be found
in living in harmony with his will. As long as we stand by our basic and
fundamental principles of brotherly love relief and truth and practice, out of
the Lodge, those great moral duties which are inculcated in it, this shall be
our shield against any attack from those who would have the world believe
they know what Masonry is all about.
As we look down the road to the future of Masonry, the road may look
a little rough and rugged, and many questions will have to be answered, but,
on the way to finding the answers to our ultimate survival. how often do we
hide behind the skirts of nostalgic comparison of what used to be, or find
our apocalypse solution by the Band-Aid answer of "What we need is more
new members!" (Whatever happened to the old ones?) I don't believe it is
the dream of new members that will save us, nor is it how we were in the
past years that will sustain us. The answer, my Brethren, is in the "Now" ...
you and I ... present and accountable, who will build and strengthen the
Lodges of today and tomorrow. It will only be through active affirmation by
each member that the future of Masonry will be a manifest reality.
Now in conclusion, let me leave you with a little story, "lest we forget
whence we came."
Years ago along the rocky coast of Maine, during the stormy season,
many shipwrecks occurred, and many liv'es were lost. Well, four caring men
came together and agreed to pledge their efforts to try and save as many
of these shipwreck victims as possible. On one of the rocky points they
erected a little lifesaving station, put in a few cots, medical supplies, and a
stove to keep the saviors warm. They bought a boat and agreed that during
the stormy season they would each take turns standing watch, and if a wreck
occurred they would ring the large bell they had erected on the point to
summon the other three. This they did, and were very successful at saving
the li\tes of many who would have surely have drowned. Their notoriety
spread far and wide, and the people said, "This is good, and we must join

37

Now along that coast in Maine, there are many beautiful Yacht Clubs,
all the lifesaving is hired, and the o riginal intent has been long forgotten . So
my Brethren, may we never forget whence we came or whither we are going,
and may we always remember to give thanks to the memory of those
Brethren who, through their wisdom, not only secured our future, but chose
to preserve and share a moment of their history not only with us here today,
but for future generations. May they be the example which will inspire us to
prepare for our future generations and to share with them a moment of our
times and history.
I truly believe that as long as there are great Fraternal o rganizations such
as ours, whose dedicated members continue to build for a better tomorrow,
and through or by example can influence the continued bu ilding of our great
nation on the foundation of love of God , Country and Family and live a life
of truth and morality, then we can hope to preserve a future where there will
always be ... "One nation under God , indivisible, with liberty and justice for

all."

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER' S MESSAG E

pleased to report the total transition went exceptionally well. The consensus
is that the nine year limitation is proving good for the Fraternity.

My Brethren:
As I now conclude my term of office as Grand Master, I am required to
prepare a report to the membership of this Grand Lodge. This is a report
on the condition of Masonry in our jurisdiction and of the many significant
and official acts of this past year of our Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of California. This is not a chronological report
but a summary of the major factors that shaped and molded this past year.
If I were to describe the results of this past year, I would describe the year
as progressive, cooperative, positive and informative.
I would first of all like to express my appreciation for the fine support,
cooperation and encouragement I have received from the general membership this past year. As the chosen leader assumes his place at the altar
each October to take the solemn obligation to uphold the office of Grand
Master, he is at once beset with a great sense of duty and responsibility.
Such were my precise feelings as I knelt at that altar a year ago on October
10, 1990.
Time passes so very quickly as Lodge and community events come and
go. Decisions, both great and small. besiege a Grand Master on a daily
basis just as would be expected of the operations of any large business such
as our Grand Lodge. The goal is to arrive at a just and equitable solution
that best serves the total family of Freemasonry. As Grand Master, I have
tried to maintain an equitable balance between the many entities of
Freemasonry throughout this past year. It has been my approach to look
for the long term rather than interim solutions. This philosophy has faithfully
supported my theme for California in the year 1991 of "California Masonry .. .Working Together." In retrospect, I can say this philosophy has been
most beneficial to all of Freemasonry as I have faithfully tried to administer
your affairs with a due regard for all concerned. Accordingly, I can say with
great pride that, for the most part, peace and harmony prevails within the
Fraternity. This is a result of a mutual respect and support by all leaders of
the several concordant and appendant bodies of Masonry.
WORKING TOGETHER AS A TEAM
The year 1991 was destined to be a year of extremes as the 'tenure rule"
forced upon us the need to immediately replace about thirty-six Inspectors,
eighteen chairmen and approximately ninety additional committeemen.
This was accomplished with the exception of two Inspectors who, for
specific and logical reasoning, could not be replaced at that time. I am

39

It is my firm conviction that the Grand Master, as well as all the officers
of Grand Lodge, need to be in more direct contact with our membership.
we need to spend more time with the general membership; we need to
establish a line of continuing communication that keeps them advised of the
many activities of Grand Lodge. This was accomplished, in part, by my
monthly Grand Master's Newsletter as it relayed matters of general interest,
including our monthly Itinerary that provides the Lodges with the awareness
of when Grand Lodge would be in their area performing a ceremony or
attending a reception. I am most pleased for the favorable remarks I have
received regarding my Newsletter and how the Masters have benefitted from
my monthly messages. Furthermore , the receiving of the monthly Itinerary
has produced a marked improvement in membership attendance at Grand
Lodge openings and at cornerstones. Effective communication is too often
taken for granted both by Grand Lodge as well as the individual Lodge. The
lack of effective communication continues to be our worst enemy in any
endeavor. not just Masonry.
Shrine Potentates support and cooperation this year has been most
rewarding to this Grand Master! A few of the California Shrine Potentates
were compelled. for economic reasons, to adopt a reasonable, dignified and
low key advertising campaign in early summer. Following my personal
request they graciously ceased advertising in support of my Recommendation on advertising and in the interest of friendship and respect to my office.
During this year I have found that quiet reasoning, understanding and
compassion has worked most favorably for all within this great Fraternity of
Masons. During this year, I have enjoyed an excellent relationship with every
Potentate as well as the Imperial Shrine officers. Such was my good fortune
that these Shrine Brothers were understand ing Masons, willing to work
together for the common benefit of a stronger Masonry.
Imperial Shrine sessions were held this year in San Francisco in the first
week of July. It was my good fortune to be the host Grand Master and the
guest of the Imperial Potentate for that Session. As such. it provided me an
oousual opportunity to become better acquainted with many of their key
leaders and to discuss. in person, my program for Masonic unity. It certainly
prOllided your Grand Master the opportunity for a "front row" seat in the
deliberations and actions of that Imperial Session!
Meetings with the leaders of Prince Hall have progressed in an order1y

and fraternal fash ion. The committees of both organizations have met twice
this year to discuss potential avenues whereby both organization s can

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

establish some form of quality relationship. During this past year I had the
opportunity to meet with Martin L. Kennison, Grand Master of the Most
Worshipful Prince Hall Grand Lodge of California, Inc. I found their Grand
Master to be an articulate, personable and compassionate gentleman. 1
had been authorized to meet with him through your 1990 approval at the
Recommendation of Most Worshipful Sam M. Pavlovich. However, that was
the only time that I, as Grand Master, was allowed to meet with him on
Masonic matters as your Grand Master.

eommunlcation. Additional savings will be realized following this Comunlcation through similar efforts of the Deputy Grand Master. A Grand
:aster is divided ~etween ~~ a~proaches: Does ~e maximize his Lodge
nd District invitations for v1s1tat1ons and ceremonies to reach the most
~embers of the Fraternity? Or, does he become very selective and deny
many of the Lodge and District requests due to budget constraints? This
Is an answer that only the presiding Grand Master can answer.

40

In June, I was extended the privilege of an invitation by their Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge to attend their pre-Annual Communication Sunday
religious services and to address their informal session. Allowing for the
restrictive nature of our California Masonic Code, I was advised by my
Masonic counsel to decline the invitation for fear of openly defying our laws.
As Grand Master, I had no choice but to decline and did so with great regret.
I might say that their Grand Master was most understanding and fully
accepted my letter declining the invitation. For his understanding. I am
forever indebted for what could have become a delicate and damaging
situation to future relations between our two organizations. It is my fervent
hope that by adopting this Grand Master's Message, you will be authorizing
my successor to use his own good judgment in accepting future invitations
as Grand Master, should they be forthcoming. That will allow him to further
the planning of a long term and favorable relationship between the two
organizations.
BUDGETARY CONSTRAINTS
Each of the several Masonic Bodies continue to experience major
budgetary problems as they relate to operating expenses. During this past
year I cannot recall a single Masonic Order that has not personally expressed deep concern for the negative fiscal impact of the high costs of their
operations. Your Grand Lodge is no exception. This past year we have
been able to contain our expenditures in most every category. To insure
full control of all committee expenditures, this past May, I imposed a
moratorium on all non-essential expenditures to soften the heavy cash flow
burdens facing your Grand Treasurer. This is a negative cash flow problem
our Grand Lodge faces near1y every year due to the timing ot the individual
Lodge payments of their per capita assessment.
With these known fiscal problems. I decided before becoming Grand
Master, that I would adopt as many cost saving opportunities as is practical.
This was partially accomplished through adjusting and reducing the re·
quired schedules of Grand Lodge officers. As such, it saved considerably
on the hotel expenses immediately following the close of the last Annual

41

It was my firm intention to reach as many of our members as possible.
and yet remain within reasonable fiscal limitations of approved budgetary
constraints. I accomplished precisely those goals. This past year I combined several cornerstone events by having two or more in a given day.
AccOrdingly, we were able to reduce our Grand Lodge openings that directly
impact our operating budget. On at least one occasion. I was able to lay
the cornerstone without benefit of a Grand Lodge opening. Such an
opportunity does not often present itself nor is it often appropriate.
SPECIAL NOTES OF FAA TERN AL APP RE CIA TION
During my four privileged years in the elective line of Grand Lodge, I
maintained the thought that I am first and always a Master Mason and that
one day soon I would, of necessity, step down and allow others to take up
the banner and guide this great Fraternity. That time has now arrived and I
look forward to the opportunity to again join my Brothers in attending and
participating in the activities of my own two Lodges. I would be remi ss if I
did not express my deep appreciation for the support I received from my
two Lodges over these past years.
Above all, I must extend our heartfelt appreciation to the many courtesies extended Terry and me during this past year by every Masonic
organization. You have indeed welcomed us warmly and with great sincerity
lrto your Lodges. Temples and valleys. Above all. into your hearts. We will
be eternally grateful for your personal support and friendship. As a result of
the many scheduled events and our many opportunities to communicate
with the membership as a whole, it is my firm belief that the average Mason
Is better informed this year of the prog rams and goals of Grand Lodge.
Accordingly, the Lodges and their officers have been most supportive and
have added greatly to the success of the many scheduled events of this
Grand Master.
SCHEDULED EVENTS
This past year we have opened Grand Lod ge fourteen times for the

benefit of a cornerstone ceremony or the dedicat ion of a new Lodge and

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

even a new Shrine Temple. We have performed a total of twenty
cornerstones for schools and public buildings. We have dedicated one new
Lodge, Fox-Coates Daylight Lodge No 842, and even one records vault at
Western Star Lodge No. 2. Exactly fifty receptions were held for the Grand
Master including numerous Receptions for my Grand Lodge officers. I had
the privilege of presenting three 75 year pins as well as participating in a few
special 50 year pin presentations.

should be noted that the School Districts that have benefitted from this great
charity have been most appreciative of our gifts and through this public
charity realize, probably for the first time, that Masons are basically a
charitable Fraternity. Everyone stands to gain from this program as it is a
most worthy concept introduced by Most Worshipful Leo B. Mark.

CONSTITUTION OF FOX-COATES DAYLIGHT LODGE NO. 842

It was my belief that we needed a new but common interest program
that would allow Masons throughout this great Fraternity t o come together
for a day of fellowship. Golfing is an outing that allows all ages, men and
women alike, to participate. From that plan evolved the concept to raise
additional funds for the Substance Abuse Program . Accordingly, a minimum of $50.00 of each player's fee went to this charity. Eight events were
scheduled around the state to insure everyone an opportunity to participate.
Three were canceled due to a lack of sufficient players to support the event.
In all, $72,766. 81 net was given to the Substance Abuse Prog ram from these
classics plus a generous contribution from several business firms desiring
to show their support to this fine cause. More Charity Golf funds will be
reported on the next fiscal year from at least two of the golf classics held
subsequent to this J une 30th.

On Monday, November 5, 1990, we had the pleasure and honor of
Constituting this Lodge under Dispensation. This was a most pleasant
evening, fully enjoyed by one and all. The Lodge room was filled to capacity
with members, wives and guests who listened intently to the Grand Lodge
ceremony.
CONFERENCE OF GRAND MASTERS
It was my distinct honor and pleasure to serve the Conference of Grand
Masters of North America this past year as its National Conference Chairman. California has never been host to the North American Conference of
Grand Masters. Following nearly four years of planning, it became a reality
this past February, in San Diego. I am pleased to report that it was a positive
and valuable Conference. It was an enormous challenge as well as very
time consuming to plan for sixty-two incumbent Grand Masters, numerous
Deputies and Grand Wardens and their wives. With the tremendous support
of many San Diego Masons and their wives this three day annual meeting
was unofficially proclaimed as one of the most outstanding annual meetings
of this illustrious gathering. Concurrently, the Grand Secretaries held their
annual meeting. In all, over eight hundred attended and participated in this
Annual Conference. I should like to take this opportunity to express my
gratitude to M.W. Stanley L. Channon and his outstanding San Diego
committee that provided for all of our guests' every need.
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAM
This being the third full year of this fine program to support the elementary grades of our California public schools, we were most pleased last
September to issue checks totaling $200,000.00 to fight this terrible war
against drugs. Funds received this year from our drive has been most
rewarding. You have contributed from October 1O, 1990 through June 30,
1991 the sum of $290,708.00. This includes a sum of $72,766.81 collected
through the Grand Master's Charity Golf Classics. Since the inception of
this great charity, the Masons of California have contributed $825,979.66. It

43

GRAND MASTERS CHARITY GOLF CLASSICS

WARDENS' RETREATS
Once again'. the Wardens' Retreats have proven to be a huge success.
These Retreats are limited to one hundred participants and their wives. This
Insures a more "personal" relationship between the participants and their
Instructors. It also provides better opportunities for the elective Grand
Lodge officers and their wives to meet and share ideas with the Wardens.
This being the third year of this excellent program we continue to hear the
Wardens wives remarking that "as a result of the Retreat, they now feel more
self assured in their role as the wife of a Master." The basic purpose of the
Retreat, of course, is to provide the much needed administrative training
that will ultimately prepare the officer to be Master. The Junior Wardens'
Retreats, started last year, provides a unique curriculum designed to address the administrative problems associated w ith their coming year as
Senior Warden. We are most pleased with the enthusiastic support for these
weekend Retreats from the Wardens. At first. it seems expensive to the
attendee because of the requ irement to stay in the hotel for the Retreat. By
so doing, they quickly become an integral part of a unified group, contributing much more in d iscussion than they would have had they been allowed
to return home for the night. Each year th e program improves based on
findings within the classroom environment. Each year the Warden comes
away better prepared to be an effective Master of his Lodge.

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC LEADERS

It became quite apparent to many that we must again remove this
Brother from his office as Master. At the written request of the District
Inspector, and with the verbal support of the Assistant Grand Lecturer, I so
notified this Brother of his immediate removal from office and the interim
appointment to the Master's chair of the Senior Warden. This decision came
as a result of discussions with the members of the Jurisprudence Committee
and the acceptance of their recommendations for resolving this problem.

We are a very large jurisdiction, composed of a membership of nearly
140,000 Masons. Our territory extends nearly eight hundred miles North to
South. With such a geographic challenge, it is certainly understandable that
we, at times, fail to effectively communicate. It has long been my philosophy
that most problems are reduced, or even eliminated, when all parties meet
to discuss the issue and to reach amicable solutions that benefit all parties.
It was because of this philosophy that I formed the Council of California
Masonic Leaders that is now attended by more than thirty-five leaders of all
the concordant and appendant organizations of Freemasonry. All of them
realize the absolute need to put into practice my theme of "California
Masonry... Working Together." This year we have met to discuss key issues
of mutual interest a total of three times. Nearly every Masonic organization
is represented in this very important Council. If it can avoid one
misunderstanding or help to resolve one major issue, for any organization,
it will more than serve its purpose.
DECISIONS
Often times the Grand Master is confronted with a problem that is not
clearly or specifically covered within the California Masonic Code. Or, the
problem is such that he must reach a decision based upon personal
judgment and instinct. What may seem appropriate at the time may later
appear questionable to others. However, th e decision must be made at that
time. Fortunately, this past year has been relatively easy regarding
decisions of this magnitude. Most inquiries were within the scope of the
California Masonic Code. All my decisions were considered and supported
within the general framework of our Code. The following are those actions
requiring the Grand Master's attention.
Decision No. 1: Was for the removal of a Master for failure to comply
with the District Inspector and Assistant Grand Lecturer directives as it
related to the Installation of Officers of his Lodge. In the belief of an improved
attitude by the Master, and at the request of the Assistant Grand Lecturer as
well as the District Inspector, I reinstated this Master following his unequivocal assurance to conform with the duties and responsibilities of his elected
office. However, following his personal assurance and his subsequent
reinstatement. he did not attend Lodge meetings or the District Inspector's
Schools of Instruction, as required by our Code. During his several months
of reinstatement he did not make Lodge committee appointments and was
not available either in person or by telephone to the officers of his Lodge.

4S

Decision No. 2: Was predicated on the highly unusual and irregular
circumstances surrounding the 1972 suspension of a member and the
written request by his Lodge for full reinstatement. Following our review, I
complied favorably to that request. I did so following the advice of the
Chairman on Jurisprudence. With the authority to place this matter now
before· the Lodge, their vote was taken and the vote was unanimous for
reinstatement.
Decision No. 3: Based on the recommendation of the Committee for
the Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges, as well as the earlier recognition
by the Conference of Grand Masters, I granted interim recognition to four
Grand Lodges in Brazil -- the Grand Lodges of Mato Grosso, Rio Grande
Norte, Roraima, and Sergipe. Again, following investigation and recommendations of our Committe·e, interim recognition was granted to the newly
reconstituted Grand Lodge of Yugoslavia. Two other Eastern European
reconstituted Grand Lodges have sought recognition from the Grand Lodge
of California. ·They will be mentioned in the report of our Committee on
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges.
RECOMMENDATIONS
Recommendation No. 1
Eliminating Proflciency Requirement - Third Degree
In 1953, our jurisdiction determined that it was appropriate to require a
Master Mason to commit to memory a major portion of the Master Mason
Degree. This was to occur before he could apply for membership in a
concordant or appendant Masonic organization. In the nearly four decades
since that became law, there is strong reason to believe that it has worked
counter productive to it's intended purpose. Accordingly, it is my recommendation that we should repeal Section 2635 in its entirety. This will
eliminate the· existing requirement for a Third Degree proficiency.

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Recommendation No. 2
Relief on Fraternal Advertising
When Section 2072 of our Code was adopted, it was accomplished as
a reaction to the sometimes improper use of advertising within our Craft. It
is my opinion, as well as that of many others, that we may have allowed
ourselves to react too severe and thus deprived ourselves and the concordant and appendant organizations of much needed revenue to support our
fraternal operations. It is my firm opinion that Section 2072 must be revised
to allow our Craft Lodges to accept certain types of advertising to defray the
costs of publishing Lodge Trestleboards. In most instances the cost of
publishing and mailing the Lodge Trestleboard is the single most expensive
item of the Lodge's annual operating budget. This certainly impacts the
Lodge dues structure.
Specific categories of advertising that are excluded are defined in Sub
Sections a. through g. of the Recommendation. Of equal importance to the
passage of this recommendation is that it will then permit all other Masonic
organizations to address their advertising needs, within due bounds, without
impact of the California Masonic Code. It is my hope and I am presuming
that the passage of this Recommendation will not cause a violation of our
California Civil Code nor otherwise place in jeopardy the non-profit status
that the Fraternity is privileged to enjoy

Recommendation No. 3
Cost Impact of Adopted Resolutions
It is my opinion that we must also consider the cost impact of the
adoption of a Resolution or Recommendation before we adopt it. The
budget impact must be considered at the time of the vote. If a Resolution
or Recommendation is adopted, it probably will impact the per capita for the
ensuing year. Therefore, it is my recommendation that Sections 500, 1218
and 4000 of our Masonic Code be amended to require all submitted
legislative matters to have first published the "cost impact" value of that piece
of legislation. The Grand Secretary shall then incorporate that cost estimate
as a part of the total Resolution packet to be distributed to the Lodges as
prescribed by the California Masonic Code.

Recommendation No. 4
Requirement tor Submission of Resolutions
I am deeply concerned with the ever increasing number of Resolutions
and other items of legislation coming before this Grand Lodge at our Annual
Communication. With the very li mited available time to accomplish our

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

47

business at Grand Lodge, it is imperative we seek ways to reduce our
deliberations to only those matters of business that serve the majority of the
Fraternity and not for a very isolated purpose. Over the past few years
several thoughts have been explored to impose a form of control over the
quantity of submissions. To me, that is not equitable as we must be
responsive to all lawful legislation. Over the years, many Resolutions have
been submitted by only one member. For example, this year we have a total
of thirteen Resolutions submitted by only one member and another fourteen
by two members. In all, this represents 66% of the total 1991 submissions
of Resolutions with 31 % of the total being submitted by only one member.
As a comparison, of the four largest jurisdictions in North America, we found
that their total Resolutions submitted, combining all three jurisdictions
averaged a remarkable low number of ten Resolutions per year. California
reports the smallest membership of those four top jurisdictions even though
we far outstrip them in proposed legislation.
My Recommendation proposes that if an intended piece of legislation
is worthy of adoption. it should then contain more than one persons'
endorsement before submission. In effect, my Recommendation No. 4, if
adopted. will require the endorsement of three Grand Lodge members that
are members of at least three separate Lodges. This will further insure that
a Resolution is not representative of "special interests or frivolous legislation."
PUBLIC AWARENESS SUNDAY
The Public Awareness Program for 1991 is now history. Time will tell if
it was a worthwhile venture. Part of the problem within Freemasonry is the
lack of understanding by the general public of "what Masons do" and "what
Masons represent. " We "go public" only at cornerstones, installations and
funerals. Certainly not enough exposure to effectively communicate the
story of Freemasonry! To expand public knowledge about our Fraternity, I
set aside this past Sunday, just before our Communication. to invite the
Mason and non-Masons to share in and experience the several events that
demonstrate our values as a Fraternity. In addition to the visitation to Union
City in the morning, I have brought together in that afternoon's events the
four youth leaders to present their wonderful remarks. These outstanding
youth leaders were then followed by the Grand Oration. Then we invited the
. visiting Grand Masters of other jurisdictions and the visiting leaders of the
several Concordant and Appendant Bodies to participate . This
demonstrated our Fraternity's continuing dedication to supporting the youth
of America and our American right for a free education. We have now
publicly highlighted many of our worthy charities that benefit not. only
Freemasons but the community in general. A short report on the scholar-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ship program of the California Masonic Foundation was also presented to
further demonstrate our educational support.

Several jurisdictions have accepted change in the handling of their
candidate memorization requirements. Nebraska, as an example, three
years ago reduced their requirements for candidate memorization to an
absolute minimum. For years they were on the decline in membership. It
may have been coincidental but from the first year of the reduction of
memorization requirements, Nebraska has reported an increase in membership. Even though three years is not a substantial trend it is nevertheless
worth noting and it is reasonable to assume it will continue to prosper
primarily due to the reduction of the memorization demands on the candidate. Other jurisdictions that have taken similar action also are reporting
growth patterns in membership.

48

CONDITION OF OUR GREAT MASONIC JURISDICTION
We have traveled this jurisdiction into every corner of this huge state.
We visited those very difficult places to reach as well as metropolitan areas
that demand the most of everyone to simply survive the heavy and frantic
traffic. We saw Lodges that were flourishing and we saw Lodges barely
holding on because they offer little or no leadership. A cursory analysis of
the Lodges these new members are joining are those Lodges providing an
energetic and innovative program for their members. The Lodges that are
simply going through the motions are not receiving applications. Our net
membership loss for this past year stands at 5,807 that reduces our revised
membership to 139,511 members. This is a reported 4.1% net membership
loss for this past year. It might be of interest to note that over the past four
years our average annual membership loss was exactly 4.1 %.
We continue to lose members through the usual cause of death and
relocation. However, it is my opinion , and others, that a definite resurgence
is being felt throughout our jurisdiction. Many Lodges this year are reporting
a back log of degree work. Furthermore, many of the new members are in
the "under forty" category. Other jurisdictions are reporting similar findings.
Consolidations continue, as of this writing, with a total of eighteen for
this past year. Predictably, several of these consolidations will prove successful and several will continue to decline regardless of the consolidation.
It is my opinion that consolidations can be effective but only if the merging
Lodges are willing to work as a unit and not as two or more Lodges
suspicious and in competition with each other.
For many years, membership in Freemasonry, in nearly every jurisdic·
tion, has been on the decline. Many ideas have been introduced to stop this
erosion, but without substantial effect. Each year, our "average age" slightly
increases as more members pass away. Throughout our vast Fraternity of
Freemasonry we hear the cry that 'We are not attracting the younger men
to the Fraternity and when we do, we can't hold on to them." In my opinion,
these statements are factual. We are a Nation with a mind for "instant
solutions." There are no "quick fix" solutions to our Masonic decline. There
is no single solution. There is no easy answer. However, in my several years
of intensive travels, I find a strong parallel between Lodge growth and simple
hard work by the Master and his members.

49

Last year, at our Annual Communication, we voted by a very narrow
margin to carry over Resolution No. 90-26 that addresses the issue of
reducing the candidate memorization requirements. The Ritual Committee
has a Resolution before us this year that continues their endorsement of
90·26 but, if passed, asks for the specific "posturing" of the examinee for
stronger emphasis. The Long Range Planning Committee has before us
Resolution No. 90-01 that also reduces the memorization requirements but
recommends several questions and a memorized response. The important
thought here is that most everyone recognizes the urgent need to reduce
the required memory work of a candidate, if we are to attract new members.
Now, it is up to you and me to get the job done! As Grand Master, I heartily
endorse the support of such an important change. My experience shows
clearly that our present system of memorization is not accomplishing it's
Intended results of properly educating the candidates. Unquestionably, it
is surely defeating the desire to join the Fraternity for many very good men.
RITUAL
This year has been an outstanding year of cooperation and support in
all matters pertaining to ritual. As issues are addressed that clearly affect
the Craft, the Ritual Committee has carefully and objectively addressed all
aspects of the issue at hand. Areas that cl early affect the Fraternity, the
Grand Lecturer or a member of his Committee has thoroughly discussed
the subject with the Grand Master to insure his support and to receive his
thoughts on the matter. I have truly appreciated this open line of communication that has been most effective for all concerned.
Throughout this past year, in working with and observing the Ritual
Committee's vast and sometimes clouded areas of duty and responsibility,
I have formulated the following o pinion:

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is most important for our widely spread jurisdiction to maintain a
uniformity of our ritual at all times. Considering the physical size of our many
Lodges and the colloquial needs of a given region, it is critical that all
decisions on ritual, as pertaining to floor work, be at the sole discretion of
the Ritual Committee. Voting on the floor of Grand Lodge on many of these
matters cannot effectively insure what is best for the total Fraternity. Only
the Ritual Committee possesses the necessary understanding to insure the
best handling of floor work throughout this vast jurisdiction. No one Lodge
or even a total Division can clearly understand the appropriate needs for the
total jurisdiction.

IN CONCLUSION

50

I am hereby requesting the incoming Grand Master to assign the
responsibility to the Ritual Committee to prepare a special report for the 1992
Communication that will fully define the specific areas of the floor work that
should be the sole responsibility of the Ritual Committee. Hopefully, the
incoming Grand Master will consider the text of that report sufficient to
submit as a Grand Master's Recommendation. California is looked upon
throughout the North American Conference as a jurisdiction of dignified,
effective and precise floor work. Let's keep it that way .
LONG RANGE PLANNING
Your Long Range Planning Committee has been working diligently and
with independent thought to the overall questions and concerns of the
Fraternity. Samples of those questions are: "How best can we offer Masonry to the younger person?" "How can we effectively streamline our tasks
without losing the original plan of Masonry?" "What should our goals be as
a Fraternity into the twenty-first century?" These are but a few of the primary
issues before this committee. They have produced extensive material for
our Fraternity's consideration. Some of their efforts are recognized in the
very Resolutions now before this Communication. Their task is fraught with
great frustration and one without the constraints that are normal to most
other committee's.
They have extended themselves far beyond what was anticipated. It is
only reasonable to say, 'thank you" for an outstanding job and for the very
extensive and forward thinking material you have lain before us to review,
consider, weigh, digest and possibly adopt over the next few years . Masonry is on the move and this committee has given us a beacon to guide our
Masonic future.

51

As a Grand Lodge Family for 1990-1991, the twenty-eight officers and
their wives have been privileged to share in one of the greatest experiences
of a Mason's life; an opportunity to spend a great year together, meeting
Masons, experiencing new places and sharing in historic events. Rising at
dawn and driving five hundred miles to Open Grand Lodge or to attend a
reception every night is not the exception. but rather the rule. Getting back
in the car and traveling to the next function, and so on for fifty-two or more
weeks is very tiring but very rewarding. Sharing in each other's personal life
for a year and learning about Masonry in the small as well as the large
communities is a great experience! Missing holidays and anniversaries with
your personal family is a routine of the Grand Lodge Family. This is what
makes the Grand Lodge officers a true family. This is the experience and
the memories of a lifetime!
The support of my Grand Lodge officers this year has been nothing short

of spectacular. The officers were fully dedicated to attend every function
throughout the jurisdiction. Attendance by the appointive line was most
often 100%. Ritual work during Grand Lodge openings and other ritual
events such as cornerstones and dedications were as near perfect in
execution as possible. I thank each and every officer for his total support
and excellence in performance!
Throughounhe year. I have asked the advice of counsel on many issues.
I have talked with many learned Masons and more often than not I have
taken their advice. Sometimes it is best to accommodate the "intent" of the
law rather than the harsh reality of the "literal" law. Above all, I have tried to
consider the hazards of simply "implementing" the law as opposed to first
applying "reasoning" to the final decision. If we are truly "working together"
as a family of Masons, we must be willing to consider all sides of the issues.
Sometimes we must walk beside the path rather than down the "proven" but
very narrow legal path.
To my Grand Marshal, Worshipful Rodney H. Davis and his lovely wife
Joyce, our deep appreciation and admiration for always being there when
we needed you! My thanks go beyond mere words to express Terry's and
my love for all you have done this past year to make 1991 a success for one
and all. You were both tireless and gave of yourself always to insure others'
comforts and needs. The Grand Lodge officers salute you!
I must not close this message without expressing my deep appreciation
to my wife, Terry, for her undying support over these many years of travel,
tight schedules and never ending meetings. I must rightfully acknowledge

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

her for her very warmth and sincere friendliness she has shown to one and
all. Above all, for her patience and tireless support she has shown to me in
my Masonic travels these past thirty-eight Masonic years. A great highlight
of my year came about when our son, Craig, chose to become a Mason.
Words fail to express my enjoyment for his decision to become a Mason.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE

To my Brothers, one and all, thank you for your confidence in my ability
to serve this great Fraternity. I have tried to be 100% at all times and I have
tried to accept every invitation offered. It has been an honor and a pleasure
as well as a most rewarding experience getting to know each of you over
these past four years.
In closing, I must state, without equivocation, that nothing is permanently wrong with Masonry. The problem rests with personal attitudes and
commitments. We must fully accept that we are a Fraternity of Masons,
composed of many Orders, each serving a necessary purpose. As we
continue to learn to work together, we will surely find that through these
combined synergies we will grow and prosper as a Fraternity. We have
survived an era of "national negativism." We are now on the threshold of
again believing in ourselves as Americans. I find the same holds true for
Masonry as I clearly see a true surge of interest and growth throughou t our
great Fraternity. I see us beginning, once again, to believe in our Masonry.
The admonitio n I leave with you is that we must learn to keep these new
members interested in the Fraternity, if we are to hold them . We must be
willing to accept change to effectively meet the needs of today's society.
We must devise ways to communicate to a friend that we are interested in
him becoming a Mason. We can certainly do that without violating our
obligation. We must now prepare for tomorrow and we must, above all, be
flexible and continue beyond this one year the practice of all of the Bodies
of California Masonry.W orking Together.
Thank you and God bless each of you!

Grand Master

53

DECISION NO. 1
SUSPENSION OF MASTER OF OPPORTUNITY LODGE NO. 740
The Committee on Jurisprude nce:

The Grand Master, acting upon the reports and recommendations of
his Inspector and his Assistant Grand Lecturer, determined that, because of
certain irregularities which had occurred at the Installation of the Master of
Opportunity Lodge in direct contradiction of instructions from the Inspector,
said Master should be suspended pending his cooperation with the Inspector and the Assistant Grand Lecturer. The said Master was suspended but,
thereafter, based upon his agreement to comply with our laws, was restored
to his office.
The Grand Master later learned that, in spite of his promises, said Master
had failed to comply with our law, had attended only two meetings of his
Lodge, and had generally failed to discharge the duties of his office.
Accordingly, the Master was again suspended pending the decision of this
Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master has the power to suspend the Master of any Lodge
from the exercise of the powers and duties of his office, for good cause, until
the next Annual Communication (Section 1016 C.M.C.) and thus the Grand
Master acted wifhin his powers in suspending the Master of Opportuni ty
Lodge No. 740. Your Committee finds that this Decision is consistent with
our law and does not require an amendment to our Code.
As a result, a majority vote only is required for approval. The question
of whether or not such suspension of the Master is to be made permanent
is a matter for this Grand Lodge to decide.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

The first issue here is whether the Grand Master acted properly in
suspending a Master who both refused to conform to established ritual in
conducting his installation, and failed to attend a meeting with the Assistant
Grand Lecturer to discuss that insubordinate conduct, until the Master met
with the Assistant Grand Lecturer and promised to conform to our Code.
Section 1016 of our Code authorizes the Grand Master to suspend a
Master ''for good reasons shown ... " Therefore, the sole question is whether
the Master's recalcitrance constituted good reason. We believe that it
Clearly does. and that the Grand Master's actions were justified.

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Section 2688 of our Code requires that "each degree conferred
and all
lectures in this jurisdiction must be in conformity with the ritual
now or
hereafter taught by the Grand Lecturer and recognized by the Grand
Lodge,
and such must be adhered to by all Lodges and Masons in this
jurisdiction
... " The Master's duty to adhere to the established ritual is reiterat
ed in the
second and third paragraphs of Section 2530.

its failure to make a reasonable attempt to give the ~equired notice
of the
ssible suspension. He, therefore, declared the action of the Lodge
to be
~Id. set the suspension aside, and deemed the Brother's dues to hav~ been
remitted by the Lodge as would have been proper had an adequa
te investigation been made.
Your Committee find s that this Decision is consistent with our laV.:
a~d
does not require an amendment to our Code. As a result, only
a ma1onty
affirmative vote is required for approval.

While those Sections refer specifically only to degrees and lecture
s, their
import is clear: all Lodges must conform to recognized Grand Lodge
ritual.
That rule applies equally to installation ritual. Therefore, the
Master in
question clearly violated that rule when he persisted, over the objecti
ons of
his Inspector, with conduc ting an installation which did not confor
m to the
Grand Lodge installation ritual. His insubordinate attitude is corrob
orated
by his unexcused failure to attend the first meeting called by the
Assistant
Grand Lecturer.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Policy concurs with the opinion of the Grand Master that the Lodge
In
uestion failed to make adequate investigation into a situation which
would
~ve fully warranted remission of dues of the Brothe.r, and t~at he _was
unjustly suspended from membership in the Order while sufferin
g serious
health problems.

Both of those events demonstrate good cause for the suspension
of the
offending Master . Furthermore, the Grand Master was justified in
continuing
that suspension in force until the Master clarified his intentions for
the future
by meeting with the Assistant Grand Lecturer and pledging to
confor m to
our law for the balance of his term.

The Lodge in question made a serious error. The Grand Master
corrected the error as a matter of justice in this particular case. Howev
er, the
main issue is clear: that all Lodges need to make thorou gh investig
ations
of the circumstances before suspending members for non-payment
of dues.

The second issue is whether the Grand Master was correct in suspen
ding the Master when, despite his earlier promises, the Master again
failed to
comply with his obligations. The answer here is easy: there can be
no doubt
that the failure of a Master to exercise the duties of his office
constitutes
good cause for his removal from that ottice.

We stress that Lodges should conduc t their affairs in such a way
~~to
not place the Grand .Master in the positio n of having to make such
a dec1s1on
two decades later.
I,

Therefore, your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
recommends that you approve Grand Master's Decision No. 1.

55

We recommend approval of Grand Master's Decision No. 2.
Decisio n APPROVED.

I
i

Decision APPROVED.
DECISION NO. 3
I

DECISION NO. 2
SETTING ASIDE SUSPENSION OF DECEASED MEMBER
The Committee on Jurisprudenc e:
The Grand Master has determined that a Brother, now deceased,
who
had been suspended for non-payment of dues prior to his death,
had not
been afforded "due proces s" by his Lodge as a result of both the
failure of
the Lodge to conduc t an adequate investigation as owed to a membe
r and

RECOGNITION OF GRAND LODGES OF FOREI GN JURISDICTION
S
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Grand Master, acting upon the recommendation of the Comm
ittee
on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges, made after satisfying
the~selves
that the Grand Lodges of Rio Grande Norte, Matto Grosso, Rora1m
a and
Sergipe of Brazil and the Grand Lodge of Yugoslavia were, ind~e?
· r_e~ular
and had already been recognized by a number of Grand Lodge 1unsd1c
t1on~
with which our Grand Lodge is in accord , and being satisfied
with their
Declaration of Principles, decided to exercise the power conferr
ed by

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Section 300 of our California Masonic Code, and granted recognition to said
Grand Lodges pending the approval of this Grand Lodge at this Annual
Communication.

keep members active in their constituent Lodges, rather than lose them to
concordant or appendant organizations.

Your Committee finds that this Decision is consistent with our law and
does not require an amendment to our Code. As a result, only a majority
affirmative vote is required for approval.

57

This "experiment" has been unsuccessful in fulfilling its intended purpose. It is the opinion of this Committee that the time has arrived to reverse
this ineffective legislation.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes agrees with the Grand
Master's Recommendation No. 1 and recommends a "Yes" vote.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs with the
report of the Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges in that the
Grand Master's Decision No. 3 be approved.

The Committee on Candidates' Education:

Decision APPROVED.

RECOMMENDATION NO. 1
ELIMINATING PROFICIENCY REQUIREMENT -- THIRD DEGREE
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Grand Master has recommended that because there appear to be
no known benefits being realized from requiring a Master Mason to pass a
satisfactory proficiency before applying for membership in a concordant or
appendant organization but that, contrariwise, said requirement has often
been a known deterrent for men interested in joining our Lodges when they
learn of such a proficiency requirement; that the existing requirement of a
Third Degree proficiency as a precondition to joining our concordant or
appendant organizations be eliminated.

Our research regarding the present proficiency requirement of Candidates indicates that the present method does not provide adequate
instruction for, and education of, our Candidates. We agree with the Grand
Master's Recommendation that the best interests of our Fraternity would be
served by reducing the present proficiency requirement. We are of the
opinion that the satisfactory recitation of the obligation and modes of
recognition and the completion of a Basic Masonic Education Course would
be far more effective.
This Committee, therefore, highly recommends the approval of the
Grand Master's Recommendation to shorten the Candidate 's present
proficiency requirement.
Recommendation HELD OVER.

RECOMMENDATION NO. 2
RELIEF ON FRATERNAL ADVERTISING

To carry out the intent of the Grand Master. your Committee on
Jurisprudence submits the following Resolution :
RESOLVED, that Section 2635 of the California Masonic Code be
repealed.
Since this Recommendation seeks to amend the Ordinances. a fivesixths affirmative vote is required for adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The requirement that a member raised after October, 1953 be required
to satisfactorily pass a proficiency examination was enacted to endeavor to

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Grand Master has recommended. because the cost of operating a
Lodge today is becoming more expensive and because other jurisdictions
have for years permitted the use of advertising as a source of funds to assist
in defraying expenses. because he believes that. by careful drafting. our law
can be changed so as to make available the benefits of advertising income
while still avoiding the abuses which occurred prior to our present restrictions, our California Masonic Code be amended so as to permit limited
advertising by Lodges and concordant bodies to defray the cost of Lodge
publications

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. To carry out the intent of the Grand Master, your Committee on
Jurisprudence submits the following Resolution:

basis of a recommendation by Grand Master Channon to relax the prohibition on advertising and provide guidelines under which advertising could be
permitted with reasonable limitations by all Masonic bodies in California.
The recommendation contained a reference to the use of agents which was
not acceptable to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes in 1989;
the recommendation was carried over to 1990 but was not approved.

RESOLVED , that the first paragraph of Section 2072 of our Code b
deleted and the following language added in place thereof:
e
Section 2~72. Masonic Lodges and other Masonic organizations
O]ay perrn1.t advertising by its members and businesses or commercial esta~lrs~ments owned or operated by its members. in Lodge
or o~ga_nizat1~n publications as a means of offsetting the cost of
publishing. pnnt1ng and mailing such publications provided that:

a. th~ advertisements are in good taste and within the bounds of
propnety;

.b.. advertisements for controlled substances alcohol. or tobacco
are not accepted:

.c.. advertisements for religious or political groups are not accepted ;
d.. Lodge's _or organization's mailing lists or Grand Lodge rosters
are not furnished to advertisers:

e.. no. reoresentation is made to Masons that it is their duty to
advertise;
[. solicitation of advertisements js by a member in good standing
of ~h~ Lodge or organization for whose publication advertising is
soltc1ted; and
g. any ex~es~ ov~rthe expenses of publishing, printing and mailing
such publtcat1on 1s donated to a recognized Masonic charity.
. Sine~ this_ Recom~endation seeks to amend the Ordinances, a fivesixths affirmative vote 1s required for adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

.. Grand Master Sherod's Recommendation No. 2 seeks to permit adverprovided that cert ·
restrictions are followed.
am

tistn~ ~s a means of off-setting publication costs,

The ma~er of advertising has been the subject of much debate over the
years. A review of the advertising history was made in 1989 and formed the

59

Also in 1990. Grand Master Pavlovich recommended that the restriction
on advertising be relaxed specifically for the Shrine East-West Game. The
Committee on Policy and General Pu rposes opposed this recommendation
because it showed preferential treatment for another Masonic organization
to do what the Lodges could not do; this Recommendation was carried over
to 1991 .
Fourteen Masonic jurisdictions in North America permit advertising of
various types by the Lodges, some imposing restrictions on advertisements
for alcohol, drugs, tobacco and gambling .
Some C.M.C. regulations apply to Lodges. members of Lodges, and
organization s requiring Masonic membership as a prerequisite for membership therein -- in other words, the Shrine, Scottish Rite, York Rite, Eastern
Star, etc.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has generally adopted
a policy of eq(Jal treatment for all Masons in all Masonic organizations. We
note that, in keeping with this policy. the p roposed legislation appl ies to
Lodges and other Masonic organizations.
The Committee feels that the legislation proposed in Grand Master's
Recommendation No. 2 is a reasonable but cautious step in the right
direction to assist Lodges and other Masonic organizations with their
financial burdens. We therefore recommend a "Yes" vote.
The Committee on Commercia lism:

The Committee on Commercialism agrees with the Recommendation
of Most Worshipful Ronald A. Sherod. This would bring us in line with some
of the other jurisdictions, and bring some finan cial relief to the Lodges.
The recommendation provides for certain guidelines. and these must
be followed by each Lodge. The guidelines are provided in the recommen dation, and are not intended to be a hinderance but a benefit for our
Fraternity.

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We recommend a "Yes" vote.
Recommendation HELD OVER.

RECOMMENDATION NO. 3
COST IMPACT OF ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
The Committee on Jurisprudence:

The Grand Master has recommended that, because often a Resolution
as proposed to our Grand Lodge would, if adopted, result In a substantial
cost impact on the Grand Lodge budget and the annual per capita assessment and without prior knowledge of that impact, the Brethren voting cannot
make a truly sound decision concerning the desirability of the proposed
legislation, all Resolutions should be submitted to the Committee on Finance
for a cost estimate with said estimate being distributed to the Lodges with
the Resolutions themselves.
To carry out the intent of the Grand Master, your Committee on
Jurisprudence submits the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that sub-section 16th of Section 1008 of the California
Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
16th. Transmit, at least 150 days prior to the commencement date
of the next Annual Communication, a copy of each and every
Resolution and Recommendation lawfully presented to him,
together with any Recommendations or Decisions made by that
time by the Grand Master, Officers or Committees or Boards of
Grand Lodge, to the members of the Committee on Jurisprudence
for their review and any needed drafting or redrafting as provided
by Section 1204, to transmit at least 90 days prior to the commencement date of the next Annual Communication a copy of each such
Resolution and Recommendation as drafted or redrafted by the
Commjttee on Jurisprudence. to the Committee on Finance for its
review and preparation of an estimate of the cost impact thereof. if
adopted and to transmit at least 60 days prior to the commencement date of the next Annual Communication, a copy of each and
every such Resolution, Recommendation and Decision presented
to him in the form approved by the Committee on Jurisprudence,
together with the brief statement of purpose and effect, as received
from the Committee on Jurisprudence following its review, and the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

61

kost estimates as received from the Committee on Finance. to the
Masters of the several Lodges, Inspectors, and members of the
Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes and
Finance.
RESOLVED, FURTHER, that Section 1218 of said Code be amended
by adding the following paragraph to follow the first paragraph of said
Section:
Upon receipt from the Grand Secretary of proposed Resolutions
and Recommendations to be considered at the next Annual Communication. the Committee on Finance shall review them and
prepare an estimate of the cost impact of each. if adopted. and
transmit. at least 75 days prior to the commencement date of the
oext Annual Communication, a report of such cost estimates to the
Graod Secretary.
Since this Recommendation seeks to amend the Ordinances, a fivesixths affirmative vote is required for adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

The Grand Master has recommended that Resolutions submitted to
Grand Lodge be referred to the Finance Committee after consideration by
theJurisprud~nce Committee, to address their cost impact on the proposed
budget. The Grand Secretary shall then include this information as part of
the customary data distributed to the Lodges.
We concur with the Grand Master's Recommendation and recommend
a "Yes" vote.
The Committee on Finance:

Your Committee on Finance agrees that the estimated financial impact
of a Resolution is important information and should be conveyed to the
Brethren before the commencement of Grand Lodge when the Resolutions
are sent to the Lodges.
We recommend a "Yes" vote.
Recommendation APPROVED.

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECOMMENDATION NO. 4

There is concern that this might be interpreted as limitin
g the indivldu~I
embers of Grand Lodge to submit legislation. Howe
ver. we feel that this
~mply states that he must have his idea endorsed by two other memb
ers
of Grand Lodge representing two other constituent Lodge
s as a test of the
relevance of his proposal .

REQUIREMENT FOR SUBMISSION OF RESOLUTIO
NS
The Committee on Jurisp ruden ce:

The Grand Master observes that the elimination of many
"special interest" items of proposed legislation would reduce the
number of legislative
matters to be considered by this Grand Lodge at its Annua
l Communication
so as to provide more time for the discussion and
debate of proposed
legislation, and he has recommended that a Resol
ution, in order to be
considered at an Annual Communication, must be signe
d by members of
this Grand Lodge representing at least three separate
Lodges.
To carry out the intent of the Grand Master, your
Committee on
Jurisprudence submits the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that the California Masonic Code be amen
ded by addin g
Sections 501 and 4001 with each said Section to read
as follows:
Written Resolutions, in order to be considered for
action at an
Annual Communication, must bear the signatures, as
proponents.
of at least three members of this Grand Lodge. each
a member of
a different constituent Lodge of this Jurisdiction.
Since this Recommendation seeks to amend our
law. a five-sixths
affirmative vote is required for adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
hopes that this
proposal will help adequately screen out legislation that
has little or no merit.
Our rules, as they now stand, require that "each and
every" Resolution be
given consideration by Grand Lodge as a whole. Our
state and national
legislative bodies long ago faced this issue of dealin
g with insignificant
legislation by giving broad powers to their committees
. who could effectively
evaluate and, if appropriate, reject legislative propo
sals without taking up
the time of the whose house. We have no such protec
tion in this Grand
Lodge. Every piece of legislation, from the trivial to
the monumental , gets
the same limited consideration. There really needs
to be some test of
relevance before a proponent elects to take up the time
of Grand Lodge by
asking that his proposal be considered . Having to
have the endorsement
of two other Brothers from two other Lodge s might
be a step in the right
direction.

63

we considered that in a few remote areas. tha~ this
requir~ment might
resent some difficulties. but we did not feel that this would
be insurm
~ble. There is no requirement that this be done by personal conta ountct.
We recommend a "Yes" vote.
The Committee on Finance:

The financial result of the Grand Master's Recommend
ation No. 4 wo~ld
have a potential positive effect on our Grand Lodge budge
t and per capita.
The overall time now allocated to discussion of Resol
utions would
bably be spread over a lesser number of Resolutions
in the future , thus
pro
providing for more effective decision mak"mg.
Therefore, your Committee on Finance recommends
a "Yes"
Recommendation APPROVED.

vote.

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CEREMO NIAL COMMUN ICATIONS OF GRAND LODGE

SPECIAL CEREMO NIES AND DEDICAT IONS

1990

65

1990

October 20

Cornerstone , North Country Elementary School,
North Highlands.

November 5

Constitution Ceremony, Fox-Coates Daylite Lodge,
Victorville.

October 27

Cornerstone , Alvarado Elementary School, Signal Hill.

oecember 9

Institution Ceremony, Apricot Blossom Rainbow Assembly,
Patterson.

November 20 Cornerstone , Human Resources Building, Stockton.
November 30 Cornerstone , Mountain View Elementary School, Clovis.
Cornerstone , Fancher Creek Elementary School, Clovis.

December 15 100 Year Ded ication and Relaying Cornerstone . Patton
State Hospital, Highland.

1991

1991
February 1

Cornerstone , Cielo Vista Elementary School, Rancho
Santa Margarita.

April 7

Cornerstone Relaying, Rosemead Masonic Temple,
Rosemead.

March 1

Cornerstone , Jean Callison Elementary School, Vacaville.

April 26

Dedication Ceremony, Fallbrook Lodge No. 317, Fallbrook.

March 2

Cornerstone , Garden Valley Fire Station and U.S. Post
Office, Garden Valley.

April 24

Cornerstone , Senior Citizens Center, Palm Springs.

April 25

Cornerstone , La Quinta Middle School , La Quinta.
Cornerstone , James Madison Elementary School, Indio.

April 26

Cornerstone , Live Oak Elementary School, Fallbrook.

June 22

Cornerstone , Fountain Valley City Hall, Fountain Valley.

July 6

Cornerstone , Aahmes Shrine Temple, Livermore.

July 22

Cornerstone , George Washington Battles School, Santa
Maria. Cornerstone, Juan Pacifico Ontiveros School,
Santa Maria.

July 30

Cornerstone , Bear Creek High School, Woodbridge .

66

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REC EPT IONS AND MISC ELLA NEO US

RECEPTIONS AND MISC ELLA NEO US· CON TINU

Feast of Tishri, California Bodies Scottish Rite,
San Francisco.

Octob er 13

Grand Master's Class, DeMolay, San Francisco.

Octob er 13

Grand Master's Reception, Santa Clara Valley Maste
r's
and Warden's Association, San Jose.

Octob er 14

Grand Chapter, Order of Eastern Star, Fresno.

Octob er 15

Feast of Tishri , Fresno Scottish Rite. Fresno.

Octob er 21

Reception, Grand Religion, International Order of
Rainbow for Girls, Bakersfield.

Octob er 23

Reception. Joe Padgett, Imperial Potentate, San Jose.

Octob er 26

Grand Master's Luncheon , California Association of
High
Twelve Clubs, San Mateo.

oecember 1
oecember 5
December 8

Octob er 27

Reception, Bixby Knolls Neptune Lodge No. 699 and
International City Lodge No. 389, Long Beach .

January 5

Octob er 30

50 Year Pin Presentation for Chester A. MacPhee, Missio
n
Lodge No. 169, San Francisco.

January 9

November 2

Southern Jurisdiction Scottish Rite Conclave.

November 3

January 10

Grand Master's Reception and Banquet, 610th and
611th
Masonic Districts. Covina.

January 18

November 8

Sweethearts Dinner, North Hollywood Lodge No. 542,
North Hollywood.

Education Fund - Light A Candle, San Francisco.
Installation of Officers, Maya Lodge No. 793,
Monterey Park.

December 21 Christmas Party, Masonic Home, Covin
a.

Hiram Award Presentation, Alameda Lodge No. 167,
Fremont.

Grand Guardian Council of California, International
Order
of Job's Daughters, Sacramento.

Drug Abuse Steeri ng Committee Meeting, Pasadena.

December 12 Installation of Officers. Bixby Knolls Neptu
ne Lodge
No. 699, Long Beach.
December 13 Installation of Officers, Long Beach Lodge
No. 327,
Long Beach.
December 16 Ben Ali Shrine Reception, Sacramento
Scottish Rite,
Sacramento.
December 19 Christmas Party, Masonic Home, Union
City.

Octob er 26

November 7

ED

1990

1990
Octob er 12

67

December 22 Executive Committee Meeti ng, Covin
a.

1991

January 19
January 25

Installation of Officers, Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674,
Long Beach .
Installation of Officers. Santa Monica-Palisades Lodge
No. 307, Santa Monica.
Groves Masonic Social Club Installation and Dinner.
Division VI Conference .
Executive and Ritual Committee Meeting.
Installation of Officers and Grand Master's Reception,
Pasadena Scottish Rite, Pasadena.

January 26

East-West Shrine Game, Palo Alto.

November 10 South -West York Rite Conference, Irvine.

Janua ry 28

Council of California Mason ic Leaders, Burlingame .

November 16 Long Beach Chapter, Order of Easte
rn Star. Long Beach .
November 17 Executive Committee Meeting, Long
Beach .
November 23 Northern Jurisdiction Conclave, Sacra
mento.

February 2

Workshop, Long Beach Scotti sh Rite, Long Beach.

February 2

Grand Master's Reception, Southern Califo rnia Resea

November 24 Installation of Officers, Southern Califo
rnia Research
Lodge, Long Beach.

February 4

Lodge, Long Beach .
Santa Ana Scottish Rite Reception, Santa Ana.

rch

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS - CONTINUED

RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS - CONTINUED

1991

1991

68

February 8

Division V Conference.

February 11

Golf Classic, Chino.

February 17

North American Conference of Grand Masters, San Diego.

February 20

Western Conference, San Diego.

February 23

Workshop, Los Angeles Scottish Rite, Los Angeles.

February 23

Conference of Younger Members, San Diego Scottish Rite,
San Diego.

February 23
March 1
March 2

Southern California Past Masters' Association Reception,
Los Angeles Scottish Rite, Los Angeles.
Grand Master's Reception and Setting Maul Dinner,
Sacramento Scottish Rite, Sacramento.
Conference of Younger Members, Sacramento Scottish
Rite, Sacramento.

69

March 22

Los Angeles Masonic Service Bureau Breakfast,
Los Angeles.
Annual Observance of the DeMolay Legion of Honor,
Commerce.
Los Angeles Scottish Rite Reception, Los Angeles.

March 23

Officers' Administrative Seminar, San Diego.

March 24

International Order of Rainbow for Girls, Grand Assembly,
Fresno.

March 25

Golf Classic, Galt.

April 5

Senior Warden's Retreat, San Ramon.

April 6

Reception Honoring Rodney Davis, Grand Marshal ,
International City No. 389, Long Beach.

April 12

March 17
March 18

March 2

S.A.M.0.A. Master's and Warden's Reception, Rancho
Cordova.

April 12

Golf Classic, Sunol.
San Francisco Scottish Rite Bodies Public Schools Event,
San Francisco.

March 3

Shrine Past Masters' Club Breakfast, Placerville.

April 13

Officer's Administrative Seminar, Oakland.

March 3

Order of the Amaranth, Sacramento.

April 13

March 6

Grand Master's Reception, Masonic Home, Union City.

Spring Dinner Dance, Occidental-California Lodge No. 1,
San Francisco.

March 7

Santa Paul Lodge No. 291 Reception, Santa Paula.

April 19

Division 11 Conference, Sacramento.

March 8

Central Coast Past Masters' Association Reception, Santa
Maria.

April 19

Senior Warden's Retreat, Claremont.

April 20

All Masonic Night - Discover Masonry, Oakland .

March 9

Santa Barbara Scottish Rite Reception, Santa Barbara.

April 22

March 9

Conference of Younger Members, Oakland Masonic
Temple, Oakland.

Long Beach Unified School District Awards Night,
Long Beach.

April 24

Weekend in the South.

Annual Chicken Feed, Golden Rule Lodge No. 479,
Morgan Hill.

April 27

Officer's Administrative Seminar. Modesto.

April 27

Executive Committee Meeting, Long Beach.

March 15

Division Ill Conference, Los Gatos.

April 28

March 16

Reception Honoring James McDonald, Grand Orator,
Los Angeles Harbor Lodge No. 332, San Pedro.

Grand Master's Breakfast and Reception, 614th Masonic
District, Norwalk.

April 28

York Rite Grand Session, Ventura.

March 14

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS - CONTINUED

RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS - CONTINUED

1991

1991

71

April 29

Reception Honoring Joe Jackson, Grand Chaplain,
Hesperian Lodge No. 264, Santa Maria.

June 22

Grand Master's Reception, Malta-El Sereno Lodge
No. 588, Los Angeles.

May3

Eastern Star Reception for Grand Master and Worthy
Grand Matron, Long Beach Chapter, Long Beach.

June 24

Celebration of Consolidation of Inglewood-James Kew
Lodge No. 421 and El Segundo Lodge No. 507.

May4

South Bay Area Grand Master's Reception, 686th Masonic
District, Hawthorne.

June 25

DeMolay Day, Jurisdiction of Southern California Order of
DeMolay, Garden Grove High Twelve Club, Garden Grove.

May 4

Officer's Administrative Seminar, Sacramento.

J'une 26

Grand Master's Reception, Home Lodge No. 721, Reseda.

May6

Grand Master's Reception, Ionic Lodge No. 520,
Los Angeles.

.June 28

Grand Bethel, International Order of Job's Daughters,
Anaheim .

Maya

Council of California Masonic Leaders, Los Angeles.

June 29

May9

Golf Classic, Whittier.

Grand Master's Reception, 570th and 574th Masonic
Districts, Los Angeles.

May 10

San Gabriel Valley Master's and Warden's Association
Reception, Pasadena.

July 1

Imperial Shrine, San Francisco.

July 7

May 11

Reception Honoring Steven Potter, Senior Grand Deacon,
San Dimas Lodge No. 428, San Dimas.

Reception Honoring William J. Schlichting, Grand
Standard Bearer, Sierra Lodge No. 788, Oakhurst.

July 8

May 11

Officer's Administrative Seminar. San Bernardino.

An Evening with "Jason," University Lodge No. 394,
Torrance.

May 17

Division IV Conference. Merced .

July 13

Executive Committee Meeting, Arcadia.

May 24

Grand Master's Reception, 206th Masonic District,
Yuba City.

July 14

,Chinese Acacia Club Reception, San Francisco.

July 15

San Jose Lodge No. 1O Annual Barbecue, San Jose.

May25

Annual Western Barbecue and Reception, 210th Masonic
District Officers' Association, Davis.

July 16

Hiram Award Presentation to Morris Koretz, Loyalty
Lodge No. 529, Los Angeles.

May 31

Masonic Homes Annual Board Meeting, Escondido.

July 19

Islam Templ e Past Masters' Club Reception, Burlingame.

June 14

Division I Conference, Emeryville.

July 20

Sciots Camp Outdoor Degree. Sacramento.

June 15

Executive Committee Meeting, Emeryville.

July 21

Barbecue with Activities Committee, San Bruno.

June 17

Golf Classic, Thousand Oaks.

July 23

Golf Classic, Galt.

June 19

Paradise Park Steak Fry, Santa Cruz.

July 25

June 20

Golf Classic, Fresno.

Veteran's Hospitals Visitation, Loma Linda, Long Beach
and San Diego.

June 20

Grand Master's Reception, Bell Lodge No. 483 and 592nd
Masonic District, Bell.

July 27

Grand Master's Reception and 50 Year Pin Presentation,
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367, South Pasadena.

June 21

Grand Master's Reception, 606th Masonic District, Ontario.

July 28

Grand Master's Reception. 624th Masonic District,
Long Beach.

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECEPTI ONS AND MISCELL ANEOUS - CONTINU ED

RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS - CONTINU ED

1991

73

1991

August 2

Grand Master's Reception, 244th, 246th and 247th Masonic
Districts, Chico.

September 8 Grand Master's Reception. 416th and 41 Bth Masonic
Districts, Fresno.

August 3

Grand Master's Reception, 242nd and 248th Masonic
Districts, Chester.

September 8 Reception Honoring Ellsworth L. Moynier, Junior Grand
Steward, Libertas-Security Lodge No. 466, Bakersfield .

August 3

Grand Master's Reception, Sublime Lodge No. 831, Vallejo.

September 11 California Masonic Family Forum, San Francisco.

August 10

MAYO Meeting, Long Beach.

August 10

Executive Committee Meeting, Long Beach.

August 10

Retirement Party for David Decker, Los Alamitos.

August 11

Very Special Masonic Evening with Mozart, Pasadena.

September 14 11th Annual Constitution Observance and Barbecue. 320th
Masonic District, Templeton.
September 16 Constitution Observance .and ~rand ~aster's Reception,
Burlingame Bodies Scottish Rite, Burlingame.

August 16

Presentation of 75 Year Pin, San Mateo Lodge No. 226 and
Burlingame Lodge No. 400, Burlingame.

August 17

Jam and Jelly Day at the Masonic Home. Union City.

August 24

Grand Lodge Budget Committee Meeting, Los Angeles.

September 22 Grand Master's Reception, 632nd Masonic District,
Murrieta.

August 24

Shrine-Masonic Night, Angels vs. Boston Red Sox,
Anaheim.

September 23 Grand Master's Special Golf Classic, Cathedral City.

August 25

Orange County Luncheon and Grand Master's Reception,
Orange County Inspectors, Garden Grove.

August28

Reception Honoring Arnold Happel, Grand Sword Bearer,
Bixby Knolls Neptune Lodge No. 699, Long Beach.

August 30

Reception Honoring Isidoro A. Regalado, Senior Grand
Steward, Normal Heights Lodge No. 632 and Three Stars
Lodge No. 839, San Diego.

August 31

Grand Master's Reception, San Diego County Masonic
Offic er's Association, San Diego.

September 1 Southern Jurisdiction DeMolay Conclave, Santa Barbara.
September 6 Reception Honoring Thomas G. McKinney. Grand
Standard Bearer. Kern River Valley Lodge No. 827,
Kernville.
September 7 Reception Honoring Dale L. St. Claire. Assistant Grand
Treasurer, Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, Bakersfield.
September 7 Executive Committee Meeting .

September 19 Reception Honoring Leonard L. Todd, Junior Grand
Deacon. 633rd Masonic District, Santa Ana.
September 20 Junior Warden's Retreat - South, Long Beach.

September 27 Junior Warden's Retreat - North , San Ramon.
September 28 Grand Master's Reception. Aahmes Past Masters' Unit,
.Treasure Island.

74

October 24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ANNIVERSARIES

VISITS TO OTHER JURISD ICTIONS

1990

1990

125th Anniversary of Phoenix Lodge No. 178,
San Bernardino.

November 11 Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Nevada, Grand
Master attending.

1991

1991
April 11

125th Anniversary of Petaluma-Hamilton Lodge No. 180,
Petaluma.

January 11

May 18

1OOth Anniversary of Reedley Lodge No. 304, Reedley.
100th Anniversary of Santa Monica-Palisades Lodge
No. 307, Santa Monica.

January 28

75th Anniversary of Central Lodge No. 465, Fresno.
1OOth Anniversary of Monrovia Lodge No. 308, Monrovia.

February 4

June 15
July 6
July 13
August 14

40th Anniversary of Masonic Temple Building, Greenleaf
Lodge No. 670, Whittier.

September 7 1OOth Anniversary of Delano Lodge No. 309, Delano.
September 21 100th Anniversary of Azusa Lodge No. 305, Azusa.

75

February 7

February 10

Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of Hawaii, Grand
Master attending.
Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Colorado, Senior
Grand Warden R. Stephen Doan to represent the
Grand Master.
Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Utah, Junior
Grand Warden Warren J. Blomseth to represent the
Grand Master.
Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Alaska, Deputy
Grand Master Stanley M. Cazneaux to represent the
Grand Master.
Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Nebraska, Grand
Master attending.

Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of Washington.
Senior Grand Warden R. Stephen Doan to represent the
·Grand Master.
Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of British Columbia.
June 20
Senior Grand Warden R. Stephen Doan to represent the
Grand Master.
Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of Wyoming, Junior
August 12
Grand Warden Warren J. Blomseth to represent the
Grand Master.
Septembe r 19 Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of Idaho. Grand
Secretary Robert A Klinger to represent the Grand Master.

June 18

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRANO LODGE
FREE AND ACCEP TED MASON S

77

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEP TED MASON S
OF CALIFO RNIA

OF CAJ...IFO RNIA
CALIFOR NIA MASONIC MEMORI AL TEMi-LE

C:ALIFO.. H•A MA90NIC Ml'.MO"I AL TEMPLI:

, I ' 1 C.-.Ll"0" ... l.t.. .T..&ll:T
l4N ,.fllAHC•St: O. C:4 e• toe .a.JI•
C•tSI 1'7• · 1'000

11 11 CltiL1,.0ftN IA • T" •llrT
...... ~lltAMCl.C:O
•-410•
{ •0• 1 '77•· "000

PROCLAX>.'1'IOl!f

PROCLA MATION

YOOTB ORDERS MOJITB.
"CALIF ORNIA FREO!ASONRY ... WORXING TOGET
espec ially approp ri ate in respec t to our HER", our theJDe for thi5 year is
three Youth Group s. The membe rs and
leade rs o f the Inter nation al Order of
DeMol ay, Intern ationa l Order of Job's
Daugh ters, and the Intern ationa l Order
of Rainbo w for Girls need and deserv e
our suppo rt.
We are witnes sing a time when the
great
frater nal family are again becom ing popula moral v alues espous ed by our
r with the youth of today.
our
Mason ic Youth Groups teach and reinfo rce
these values to the ir membe rs, a nd
i t is incum bent upon each one of us to
help streng then the cause.
Our youth Groups are in need of adult
leader ship.
We have Chapt ers,
Assem blies and Bethe ls in this Grand
Jurisd iction that are closin g their
d oors and surren dering their charte rs,
merely becau se they l ack the necess ary
adults to serv e as membe rs of the variou
s Adviso ry Boards and Guard ian
Counc ils.
Workin g togeth er , we c an provid e that leader
ship and guidan ce for these fine
young women and men, these "leade rs of
tomorr ow."
I t herefo re procla im the month of June
as YOOTB ORDERS MOJITH.
I encour age
each Mason in this jurisd iction to attend
a meetin g of one or more of the
variou s Youth Group s. I challe nge each
Mason
to
serve
on
a
Job's
Daugh ters
Guard ian Counc il, a Rainbo w Adviso ry Board
encour age each Lodge in this Grand Jurisd or a DeHola y Advis ory Counc il. I
iction
t o hold a spec ial progra m
during the month of June featur i ng one
or more o f our Youth Groups .
I furthe r direc t that this procla mation
be read by the Secre tary at the Hay
and June Stated Meetin g of each Lodge ,
and where possib le , printe d in the May
Trestl eboar d.
Your active partic ipatio n and suppo rt
of these fine organ izatio ns will be
just anoth er e xample of CALIFORNI A MASONR
Y .•. WORKING TOGETHER.

MASONl C HO MES ENDOWMEITT MO ITTH
During the.ten years tbat

out l"MO Homes.

b.a
M oK Homes program offers oot only a ~c ha,i:n
for tbosc who need
I am extremely ?~cued l l ow uo our brethren, and tbeis familiel. when in oced. Thoe it,
l"''O
but also offers,_ addiuoo~ ""'nu~l~I =~~';.i
SERVICE," and tbc "NON-RE SIDENC E ASSISTA
l'CE
additio o>i a"'ouC$ are _tbc . MASO .
d f al
va1I
blc
l
o
lbc
Lodges.
RAM
and
the
The
>G<ODd
(U'Sl
pro'1de> fin>ncial
is u 1nformatto n an re err sc.mce a
a
pROG
·
. h.
· d
·
·d· g needed help to the d istrcs.c.cd brother while allo"'1ng
a.ui.stancc. Both programs arc a.une
tm to rcrn~nn
at prOV1 m

io bis own commuo.iry.

tbetnSclvcs. and these ,...., programs as well, depends
maioly upon you •nJ "'"
Tbc $Up~ . of the Ho;::•• nic Home5 Endowme nt Fund.
Cw rcntly the End.,,...,,ent Fund pt<l'ides only >bout
through our roatnbuu oo.s lo tbe as.o .
b
MasorUc
H
omes
prnorams
The
iDaeiiL\ing
age
h. d
of our membc n h1p, and
10 opcrauoo 1 e
one I ir o Cthe fwlds oeccuary
.
. .
·
-"
b EVERY M
I those who need it will..,,..
require a tOlal commnm
inaeasing <OSI• of prl>"!ding
ent y
qu~ry eve or
ason.
,

half of our califomia brethren m1.de a coouibutioo. to tbc
Ho mes Endowm~nt Fund.. But we
Laa year almost
ONS WORKIN G TOGETH ER a.s a lc.m can we tontinue
10 provide our d151rc"cd
oeed 100% effort! _Only by MAS
·u
I
th
.iability
>e<urity
co mpanion•hip, a qualitv future. onJ m o,1 .,f
btcthreo wilh the kind ol help that WI guaran cc em
•
•
all. 1 Jilc enriched witb MASONI C LOVE.
With the above in mind. I proclaim 1hc mo nth of May,

1991. lo be

MASONI C HOMES ENDO WM EITT MOITTH

· r-"'oniia to !live 10 the fui.ancial •upport of our Masonic Homes.
a.n<t uroc ea<h aod even Mason Ill
and 10 the MJM>nic
........,,
r his b'li
Oulre;ch Sel:"icc and the Noo-Ruid eocc A.«llta.occ Program
to the best o
• 1 ty.
.
r
· that this Proclamatio n be read by the Secretary at the
ll LI therc1ore my direcuoo
April and May slated meet on~>
.
of each Lodge in this jurisdictioo, and also that it be
published in a.ll Lodge bulletuu.
Sincxrcly and Fraternally,

sincer ely and Frater nall y,

,'( ~ 4. ,..J -L-- L

~~~/

Grand Maste r

· ·

of Lhc Ma.soa.ic Homc.s of California, ( hJd Jon
! w~ pnlvilc:gMed ta ."'~Trustee
by o iu

brethren. If every M*""" in C aliforni> could
""'"'
many applicatlO M or ...OllK
opp<><\-;-~ to con>ider
· ·
•~ gb b
ha.. I SllllUlr pnvilegc, he WOuld qw•ckly WIder.iand tbe depth of relief 011r Fratemity pro'1des touou
t e supp<>rl a f

Ronald A. Sherod
Grand Maslc r

Doted:
Alte>1:

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRANO LOOGE

RoautT A. K1-1NGE:A

FREE ANO ACCEPTED MASONS

1';.""ll'C>WC_,,_._

O F CALIFORNIA

OF CALIFORNI A

•• I 1 CAl.l,.-O lt"'11A STllll[.Cl

CALIFOANI A MASONIC MEMOR I AL TEMPLE

S A.. S'11t&NC.1SCO C A ••I Oe 2.2••

1111 CM..IP'Ollll"flA S T!\l[l:T

•AN F'RA.NCISC:O CA. • • 1 Ge· J.&••

t't• 7'000

{' I ~ I

P R 0 C L A MA T I 0 N

77a · 7000

PROCL\MATION
U.S. CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE MONTH
September 1991

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK -- 1991

"PUBLIC SCHOOLS: WORJCING FOR THE PRESENT -- ENSURING THE FUTURE•
A wise man once said, "We should all be concerned about the future
because we' ll spend the rest of our lives there•.

RONA.LO A . SHEROD

GRANO LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

CAL I F'ORNI"" MAS ONIC M EMOR I AL T EMP L E

<I ISi

79

'°

~escotative
·rHE O RI GINAL COLONIES met >I James1own . 1619 10 rorm ow fiirsl re,..
d assembly.
. lo
s1 Ithe
·
·
lafoo and law lo become .odcpco cot sovereign • cs.

~~~~~o11~~~~n~':,,;,~;:•,~~:c::~:~:~'ir.~u.f•re;,,'1~"~t;rcm _&.tn~c~~:..:~~ !:r..~~~·~~

America's future is, and always has been, the chief concern of our
Public Schools .
Ever since the earliest colonial days, our schools have
labored diligently to enhance America's future by training our youth to be
responsible citizens as well as capable leaders of tomorrow.

each Olher ccono mica.lly and pohl1Cally after 1he ~cvolu~~ 1bat ~!ome summer lbe United Stales
delegates to Philadelphia in May 178710 rewh~-e1;'~787 .b thirty-nine dclcg.ics.. of which twenty-three were
Co!Ulitution wu du.fled. 11 wu signed Scptem.,., •
• Y

In recognition of their dedicated efforts, we have selected the
following theme as appropriate for this year's Public Schools Week, •PUBLIC

colonial
ClpCricocc
aod theLegislatiYC
years of lri&I
Tbe ba.si& for our coa.slltut&onal form of gove:rnmc.n1 ~c. fro m I be cal
with baluc:e
e~
a.od

SCHOOLS• WORJCING FOR THE PRESENT -- EHSURING THE f'IJ'TURJ!! • •

To ensure a future in which America's preeminence in world affairs will
remain strong, our Public Schools are training our younq people to be
outstanding in business, industry, science and the professions, thus
enhancing the Americ an way of life!
Moreover, in order to ensure a drug-free future in America, our Public
Schools are teaching our children to shun the evils of substance a.b use.
If this concern for America's future is to continue, our Public Schools
must have unstinting public support.
I, therefore, call upon all citizens,
especially my Brethren in Freema•onry, to continue their support of this
great institution -- our Public Schools -- and do hereby proclaim
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WE.Ell: during April 1991
throughout California, and I call upon all Masoni c Lodqes to arrange with the
schools in their area for a mutually convenient week i n the month of April
to be set aside for appropriate ceremonies and programs in observance of this
evenL..
Furthennore, I direct that no Lodge programs or meetings, other than
Stated Meetings, be held during the designated week which might conflict with
local Public Schools Week observances; and
That thi s Proclamation be read by the Maste[ at the April Stated Meeting
of all Lodqes and, where feasible, that it also be published in Lodge
Bulletins or dis t ributed to each member.

Grand Master

Freemasons.
aod error lh•t followed II ioYOlved tbe cona:his~ ~.a limit~~ been held together by tbe Ua.ited Stillcs
judicW pow<r.. For m0<c tha.o 200 Y"'"''- t
OM>aJJCC o ,... - CoDSlitutioo.

1

t::;

It is more tha.n document. The Ua.itcd States Constitution re_pc-esc~u a~ -:Ji
r:!:I~~=::~
lo ·
to the dcm.ands of ill! ever gr"""'1g sooety.
ct ""
. h s,1i· Id
10
p rcspon.sc
thede~
Consotuhon
b.a.s DCYCr bee 0 [unci&mentally r cvi.cd· It remains the supreme
le law of ow w.d. It IS t e oe

'°.

of democracy uodc.r which we as Amcriam govern oursclves as a free pc.op ·
.

· · ·

·

tbe month o( September 1991 as CONS'TTTUTION OBSERVANCE MONTH in tbe

In this spu11. ' proclaim ' _._ ol. CaliL . and direa every Lodge to commemorate the IJlllJYCHOI)' o( the
Juri."1i<tioo ol the Gr~ .,......~
. om,.
h he... r ..,,. be held for tbe pub~e a.Gd
Uoilcd Stale• Constitution with a pa1no11c progum. I olso urge t at l
P OllJ
be given 1he widest publicity poosib le.
I further direa that tlW Proclamation be read ill the A~ and September Slated Mee~ of each Lodge and
urge lhal. the Fli13 o( ow Country be [orm&lly prcscntcd at tbe September Slated Mee!Jni.
Fraternally,

Rooald A. She rod
Grand M~tcr

~d'...t'~

~~.

:.~r::.".rr~
C ALIF O RNIA M ASONR Y • • • • WOR~ING ToGETHCA

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE GRAND TREASURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:

The Grand Tr~asurer is charged with the responsibility of reporting to
the r:1emb~~s of th~s ~rand Lodge on the financial condition of Grand Lodge
and its ent1t1es, which include the Masonic Homes of California, the California
Masonic Memorial Temple and the California Masonic Foundation. The
~o~ti~ui~g financial contributions to these entities by the members of this
1unsd1ct1on have been very generous. Your support makes it all possible.
Thank you.
The reports and comments of the Grand Treasurer are based on the
official statements of Deloitte and Touche, Certified Public Accountants of
San Francisco, whose reports are an integral part of the Grand Treasurer's
Report. Their audit covers the year ending June 30, 1991, and contains a
complete record of income and expenses for the period.
The delegates to the Annual Communication, are in effect, the stockholders of the entities of Grand Lodge and you are encouraged, and it is
rec om mended, that you read and review this report. Your observations and
comments are appreciated .
While certain governments may operate with fiscal deficits. that is not
the pro~ince of your Grand Lodge. Prudence in managing the assets and
controlling the expenses of Grand Lodge and its entities is of the highest
p~iority. Fiscal responsibility is the cornerstone of Freemasonry in California. Rest assured, that the assets and investments of our Masonic entities
are well managed and protected in a manner of which you can be justifiably
proud.
During the past year, a new firm of accountants was engaged, Deloitte
and Touche of San Francisco. With their assistance and the complete
support and cooperation of our Masonic entities, especially our Masonic
Hon:ies B~ard of Trustees, an entirely new management information system
for financial acco~nting and related functions was installed. This change
was made to provide the members of this jurisdiction with the most accurate
and timely financial information possible.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

81

Our special thanks to the Most Worshipful Ronald A. Sherod and his
team of Grand Lodge Officers for their strong support and cooperation this
past year. To our retiring Grand Secretary, our deepest gratitude for his
wisdom, guidance and counsel. Particular recognition is hereby noted to
our Accounting Staff under the direction of Nurys Erazo. Thank you, one
and all, for your dedication ard diligence. Through your sincere personal
effort, our new management information system reached fruition of target.
Respectfully submitted,
H. Herbert P. Wilkins, Grand Treasurer

Referred to the Committee on Distribution. That Committee referred the
entire report of the Grand Treasurer to the Committee on Finance. The
Grand Treasurer's Report also included the audited financial reports of the
several Grand Lodge entities, which can be found in the Special Appendix
of these Proceedings.

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

C.M.C. Section 2100
Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89 from Smartsville to Yuba City.
San Leandro Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 from San Leandro to Castro
Valley.
Cahuenga La Brea Lodge No. 513 from Glendale to Los Angeles.
Loyalty Lodge No. 529 from Los Angeles to Santa Monica.
The Gardens Lodge No. 621 from Pico Rivera to Whittier.
Polaris Lodge No. 730 from Citrus Heights to Rio Linda.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pasadena Lodge No. 272, Corona Lodge No. 324 and San Pasqual
Lodge No. 452, effective December 1, 1990, to be known as
Pasadena Consolidated Lodge No. 272.
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331 and Gateway Lodge No. 821, effective
December 1, 1990, to be known as Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331 .
Mizpah Lodge No. 378 and Granada Hills Lodge No. 790, effective
December 1, 1990, to be known as Granada Hills Lodge No. 378.
Capital City Lodge No. 499 and Golden Empire Lodge No. 733,
effective December 1, 1990, to be known as Capital City Golden
Empire Lodge No. 499.

Dana R. Weller Lodge No. 765 from Torrance to Manhattan Beach.

Mount Olive Lodge No. 506 and Zenith Lodge No. 768, effective
December 1, 1990. to be known as Zenith-Mount Olive Lodge No.

Northern California Research Lodge from San Francisco to Oakland.

506.

Consolidation of Lodges (C.M.C. Section 2104}
All requirements of the law with respect to consolidations of Lodges
having been complied with, authorization is requested to properly endorse
the charters of these Lodges as follows:
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569, Bay View-Castro Valley Lodge No.
713 and Ashland Lodge No. 798, effective October 1, 1990, to be
known as Crow Canyon Lodge No. 569.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 and Plaza de Los Angel es Lodge No.
814, effective November 1. 1990. to be known as Los Angeles Lodge
No. 42.

Mother Colony Lodge No. 750 and La Mirada Lodge No. 778,
effective December 1, 1990, to be known as La Mirada Lodge No.
750.

Parnassus-Presidio Lodge No. 388 and Columbia-Balder Lodge No.
393, effective December 5, 1990, to be known as Columbia Lodge
No. 388. '
Welcome Lodge No. 255 and Coalinga Lodge No. 387, effective
January 1, 1991, to be known as Welcome Lodge No. 255.
Granada Hills Lodge No. 378 and Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482,
effective April 1, 1991, to be known as Granada Hills Lodge No. 378.
las Palmas Lodge No. 366 and Ponderosa Lodge No. 700, effective
April 1, 1991 , to be known as Las Pal mas-Ponderosa Lodge No.

Union Lodge No. 58 and Kit Carson Lodge No. 734, effective
December 1. 1990, to be known as Union Kit Carson Lodge No. 58.

366.

Chico Lodge No. 11 1 and Leland Stanford Lodge No. 784, effective
December 1, 1990, to be known as Chico-Leland Stanford Lodge
No. 111.

Inglewood-James Kew Lodge No. 421 and El Segundo Lodge No.
507, effective July 1, 1991, to be known as South Bay Lodge No.
421.

Magnolia Lodge No. 242 and La Cumbre Lodge No. 642, effective
December 1, 1991 , to be known as Magnolia-La Cumbre Lodge No.

475, effective July 1, 1991, to be known as Pasadena Consolidated

242.

Pasadena Consolidated Lodge No. 272 and America Lodge No.
Lodge No. 272.

85

South Pasadena Lodge No. 367 and Golden Gavel Lodge No. 445,
effective August 1, 1991, to be known as South Pasadena Lodge
No. 367.
ACTION BY GRAND LODGE

The Committee on Charters
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
Most Worshipful Grand Master, Distinguished Guests and Brethren, on
behalf of the Charters Committee I am pleased to report that we chartered
Fox-Coates Daylight Lodge No. 842 on November 10, 1990. They hold their
Stated Meetings on the Second Tuesday morning of each month in the
Victorville Masonic Temple at Victorville, California. We have no Masonic
Clubs working at this time, nor do we have any Lodges under dispensation.
This year we have had fifteen two Lodge consolidations and three three
Lodge consolidations. We now have five hundred and six chartered Blue
Lodges in our jurisdiction.
That portion of the Grand Secretary's Report dealing with changes of
meeting place of Lodges under Sections 2098 and 2100 of the California
Masonic Code and the consolidation of Lodges under Section 2104 of the
California Masonic Code. have been referred to this Committee for consideration. We find that all of the requirements of our laws have been
complied with and .recommend that the Grand Secretary be authorized to
property endorse the charters of those Lodges. A listing of those Lodges is
included in a part of the Grand Secretary's Report.
On behalf of the Charters Committee, we thank you for the privilege and
honor of serving you and our Fraternity this year.

MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS
As of June 30, 1991
1987

1988

New Lodges Formed
2
0
(incl. Research}
0
0
Lodge Charters Revoked
Lodges Lost to Grand
0
0
Lodge of Hawaii
10
19
Consolidations
2,021
2,190
Initiated
1,602
1,632
Passed
1,673
1,657
Raised
3,118
5,214
*Affiliations (Calif.}
Affiliations
418
(from other jurisdictions) 457
233
290
Restorations
3,655
5,678
*Withdrawals
1,334
1,351
Suspensions N.P.D.
Suspensions or Expulsions
17
15
(for cause}
5,516
5,633
Deaths
164,676 159,496
Total Membership
2,424
2,336
Dues Remitted.
180)
(5,
(5,059)
Gains or Losses
Number of Lodges
(excluding Research)
Plural Members
(included in Total)
Research Membership
(6 Research Lodges)

1991

1
0

0
0

0
0

12
15
1,890
1,355
1,384
4,095

0
12
1,827
1,317
1,351
3,404

0
20
1,771
1,253
1,247
5,087

383
200
7,496
1,568

301
221
4,199
1,584

373
214
5,890
1,664

4
5,458
151 ,051
2,503
(8.445}

3
5,201
145,319
2,590
{5,710}

6
5,175
139,505
2,432
(5,813)

540

528

508

2,948

3,021

2,749

2,689

2,537

2,715

3, 112

3,247

3,236

3,408

Vandell C. Owens. Chairman

Report ADOPTED.

1990

566

Respectfully submitted,
Robert F. Eisenhart
Kaye. Crill
Haskell L. Goodman
George R. Wiech
Joseph Freeland. Advisor

1989

574

Most Worshipful , I move the adoption of this report.

Norbert E. Driggers
Harold H. Goeringer
Edmund W. Heath
Richard L. Taylor
James E. Higby

87

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

86

*Includes count due to consolidations.

88

Amount
$50.00
53.00
55.00
60.00
61 .00
65.00
75.00
78.00
80.00
85.00
86.00
90.00
95.00
99.00
100.00
101.00
105.00
110.00
111.00
115.00
120.00
122.50
125.00
126.00
131.00
135.00
136.00
140.00
141 .00
145.00
150.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FEES FOR DEGREES

FEES FOR DEGREES - CONTINU ED

1981
1991
Increase In
Decrease In
No. of Lodges No. of Lodges No. of Lodges No. of Lodges
46
1

1
8
119
1
12

2
2
31
2
1
175

41
0
0
2
1
6
73
1
6

6

2
29
2

15
2
4
64
11
1
75

2

2

4
0
13
11

2
46

2

131
2
11
1
9
48
4
1-59

2

5

2

Amount

1
1
1
8
8
0
1
0
0
0
4
0
1
0

0
3
7
3
3
1
2
1
2
1
3
1
1

Total Lodges 635

508

154.00
160.00
161.00
165.00
175.00
189.00
190.00
195.00
200.00
211 .00
215.00
261 .00
265.00
300.00

Average
Fees
16
7
16

2
6
4
7--

1
2
4
6

24

11

$100,.54

1
2
6

5
5
1
1
2
1

1

4

2
13

Decrease In
Increase In
1991
No.
of Lodges
No.
of
Lodges
No.
of Lodges
No. of Lodges
1981

44

5

89

$104.66

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL DUES

MANA GEME NT INFOR MATIO N SYSTEM

1981

1991

Increase Jn

Decrease In
Amoun t No. of Lodges No. of Lodges
s
Lodge
of
No.
of Lodges
No.
$12.00
15
15.00
16.00
17.00
18.00
20.00
21.00
22.00

22.50
23.00
24.00
25.00
26.00
27.00
27.50
28.00
30.00
31.00
32.00
32.50
33.00
34.00
35.00
36.00
37.50
38.00
40.00
42.00
44.00
45.00
47.00
48.00
50.00
51.00
52.00
55.00

60.00
65.00
66.00
100.00

28
7
1
45
62
15
8
1
2
69
91
12
12
1
13
150
2
6
1
1
2
20
37
1
2
12
3
2

3
0
4
4
0
0
1
1
0
1
0

Total Lodges 635
Average
Dues

$24.75

2-

13
20
5
1
25
43
9
7

8
2
0
20
19
6
1
1
0
24
27

2
45
64
11
10
1
5
65
2

1

2
0
8
85
0

6
1

5
1
39
50

0
2
67
11
2
21
1
34
36
1
5
7
10
1
1
1

508
$30.78

4

19
13

InforThe Mason ic Homes of California purchased a new Management
office
Lodge
mation System for operat ion at the Homes, and at the Grand
ting and
accoun
l
financia
their
for
t
suppor
better
provide
to
co,
in San Francis
of this
age
advant
analysis needs. The Grand Lodge office was able to take
m
progra
ement
new system by integra ting Its accoun ting and fiscal manag
the
of
$0.098
only
into one new system. The cost to Grand Lodge will be
years.
total per capita, or an investment of $13,000 per year for three
ttees
The new system will permit monthl y financial reports to all commi
. and
Master
of Grand Lodge, with summa ry financial reporti ng to the Grand
ed
manag
be
ill
to the Execut ive Comm ittee. The cash flow of Grand Lodge w
be
can
ms
progra
more efficien tly. and commi ttee expend itures and
the
ith
w
system
managed more effectively as well. The integration of this
for a smooth
Masonic Homes will eliminate redundant activities. and provide
, such
entities
other
flow of informa tion between the Grand Lodge and the
as the Masonic Homes.
assisThe Management Information System was develo ped with the
se
experti
ement
manag
tance of the firm of Deloitte and T ouche, whose
,
entities
other
and
,
enabled the Grand Lodge, as well as the Mason ic Homes
the
in
them
guide
to
tion
to adopt a Master Plan for Management Informa
purcha sing
future. The Master Plan w ~ I save future dollars by coordin ated
of new
tibility
compa
of hardware and software, as well as insuring the
Informa
ement
Manag
information systems to be developed. A permanent
s.
succes
its
rs
monito
tion System Comm ittee manages the system and

55
8
18
1
30
32
1
5
6
9
1

91

MICRO FILM SYSTEM
proble m
For several years the Grand Lodge ottice has had a pressing
that
beyond
steps
two
with a lack of floor space. Our needs are always
records
the
that
n
concer
which is available to us. It was also a major
availab le.
maintained in the ottice of the Grand Lodge were the only copies
. Should
Lodges
local
our
in
There were no back-u p records except those
informaal
historic
our
rebuild
disaster occur, we would be hard pressed to
tion.
pa
I appointed Ken Brisbin , our Membership Administrator. to develo
tives.
alterna
le
possib
all
at
plan of action. He researched the subject , looked
lm packag e
with cost and performance in mind, and put together a microfi
which we purchased in December of 1990.

92

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The microfilm system consists of a Minolta high speed filmer and an
RP504M viewer/printer.
When the filming of the historical records for both members and Lodges
is completed. it is proposed to then extend this service to the California
Masonic Homes records and the other parts of our office. We will, when
completed, be in possession of a complete back-up copy of all records
which can be stored off-site for safety. We also will have some extra floor
space available to us, of which we are rapidly running out.

NEW EDITION - CALIFORNIA MASONIC CODE
In 1988, Grand Master Leo B. Mark, recommended at the Annual
Communication, that a Committee be appointed by the incoming Grand
Master to rewrite the then existing Code using simple every day layman's
language.
That Committee was formed and has worked long and hard throughout
the last three years to accomplish its assigned task. At this Annual Communication we have the result of their labors. The cost for the new Code
will be the same as that of the old Code, $15.00 each.
The new Code has been completely re-written, re-structured and renumbered from front to back. It will be in a loose-leaf format . Annotations
which are relevant have been included in the body of the Section itself and
all Annotations, as such, have been deleted from the book.
The language, as set forth in the Code, is simple and understardable.
But the greatest achievement is the index. This has to be the crowning jewel
of the Committee's work. It is complete and in some cases, overly so; each
entry is clear and has a brief description of the Section itself. This Code is
a fine example of the talents and the diligence of the members of this Grand
Jurisdiction.
CONCLUSION
As I conclude my eleventh and final report to the Grand Lodge, I would
be remiss if I did not express my great appreciation to all those dedicated
Masons who serve this Grand Lodge because of their love for our Fraternity.
Over the course of these past eleven years, it has been my extreme
good fortune to have been permitted to work and to socialize with hundreds
of truly fine men and their ladies, not only from within our jurisdiction, but

93

'ur'1sdictions as well. It is a privilege but few of us enjoy
.
. .
from many o th er l
and one which I can assure you I will definitely miss.
Id hope that the same spirit of fraternalism and cooperation would
I wou
f G d Secretary as has been
ff'
ff
be extended to my successor in the o ice o ran
extended to me, ard I can assure whoever is elected to serve In that o ice
that I stand ready to assist him in any way that I can.
M Brethren it has been a marvelous experience for met~ serve as your
GrandySecretary' and I sincerely thank you for this privilege wh1ch I shall long
remember.

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXHIBIT A
DISPENSATIONS ISSUED
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law
(C.M.C. Section 1004):

Madison No. 23; Georgetown No. 25; Martinez No. 41; Forbestown
No. 50; Natoma No. 64; Enterprise No. 70; Humboldt No. 79; lone
No. 80; Naval No. 87; Clay No. 101; Molino No. 150 (2) ; King David's
No. 209: Vallejo Solano No. 229; Tustin No. 241; Lodi No. 256;
Evergreen No. 259; San Gabriel Southern California No. 278;
Dunsmuir-McCloud No. 297 ; Santa Lucia No. 302; Fallbrook No.
317; Pacific Grove No. 331 ; San Fernando No. 343; Willits No. 365;
Parnassus-Presidio No. 388 ; International City No. 389; Elysian No.
418; Montebello No. 451 ; Rosemead No. 457 ; Mount Oso No. 460;
Yorba Linda No. 469; La Jolla No. 518; Beverly Hills No. 528;
Glendale No. 544 (2); Triangle No. 548 {2); Warren G. Harding No.
579 (2) ; Tri No. 595; Three Pillars No. 613; Atwater Larchmont No.
614; Hemet No. 615; A.M. Daylight No. 625; Lomita No. 644;
Crescenta-Canada No. 652 ; Liberal Arts No. 677; Rim of the World
No. 711 ; Lakewood No. 728; Opportunity No. 740; La Mirada No.
750; Luther Burbank No. 752 ; Tejon No. 773; Yucca Valley No. 802;
Camarillo No. 824; Joseph L. Shell Daylight No. 837.
To open Lodge in other than regular meeting place
(C.M.C. Section 20461 Supp.):
Wes~ern Star No. 2; Pajaro No. 110 (3) ; Mendocino No. 179 (2);
Tustin No. 241 ; Sisson-Wh ite Pine No. 310; Fallb rook No. 317 ;
Charity No. 362; Chino Valley No. 427; Capitol City No. 499; Ionic
No. 520 (2); Saddleback Laguna No. 672; American River No. 795;
Old West No. 813; Camarillo No. 824 ; Sublime No. 831; Irvine No.
841; Southern California Research (3).

To open Lodge and confer Degree in other than regular meeting place
(C.M.C. Section 2046f Supp.):

La Partaite Union No. 17 (3); Martinez No. 41 ; Pajaro No. 110 (2) ;
Alamo No. 122; Alameda No. 167; Santa Monica-Palisades No. 307;
Berkeley No. 363 ; Columbia No. 388; Alpha Shattuck-Stephens No.
431; DeAnza No. 511; Crow Canyon No. 569 ; Magnolia No. 618;
Menorah No. 623; San Juan No. 732; El Rancho Rio Hondo No. 800;
Irvine No. 841.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

95

Special permission to confer outdoor Degree
(C.M.C. Section 2046f Supp.):

Yount No. 12; Enterprise No. 70; Porterville-Lindsay No. 303 ; At~s­
cadero No. 493; Oasis of Mara No. 735; Merced No. 749; Oak Plains
No. 789; Kern River Valley No. 827; Half Moon Bay No. 835.
To change date of Stated Meeting (C.M.C. Section 1028) :

Nevada No. 13; Truckee No. 200; Temescal No. 314 (2) ; Turlock
No. 395; San Dimas No. 428; Ionic No. 520; Fairtax No. 556;
Menorah No. 623; A.M. Daylight No. 625: Composite No. 639 ; San
Gorgonio No. 668 ; Saddleback Laguna No. 672; San Pablo No. 754;
Irvine No. 841 (2) ; Northern California Research.
Permission to participate in a parade (C.M.C. Section 2058c) :

Benicia No. 5; El Dorado No. 26: Ophir-Bear Mountain No. 33; Hiram
No. 43; LaFayette No. 126; Elk Grove No. 173; San Simeon No. 196
{2); King David's No. 209 (2): Snow Mountain No. 271: Paso Rob~es
No. 286 (2); Needles No. 326; Gardena-Ascot No. 372: Oceanside
No. 381 ; Apollo-Woodstock No. 396; Lancaster .No. 437 {2)'.
Coronado No. 441 ; Atascadero No. 493 (2); Semper V1rens ~o. 552,
Santa Maria No. 580 (2) ; Malta-El Sereno No. 588; Chula Vista No.
626 (3); Ojai No. 663; San Clemente No. 671 ; Vista No. .687 (2) ;
Estero No. '719 (2) ; Lemon Grove No. 736; Claude H. Morn~on. No.
747; Clayton Valley Saint John's No. 756: Riviera No. 780; Rio Linda
No. 786; Conejo Valley No. 807; Scepter No. 808 (2) : Half Moon Bay
No. 835 ; Joseph L. Shell Daylight No. 837 .
Permission to participate in civic events (C.M .C. Section 2058) :

Madera Joppa No. 280; Elsinore No. 289.
Permission to have Inspector preside at Stated Meeting
(C.M.C. Section 2034c):

Los Altos No. 712
Changing time of Stated Meeting (C.M.C. Section 1028):

Live Oak No. 61 ; Acorn No. 494 (3) ; Vista No. 687.

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To hold meetings in other than regular meeting place due to destruction
of Lodge room (C.M.C. Section 2102):

Half Moon Bay No. 835 to $840.00; Southern California Research
to $315.00.

Tustin No. 241; San Lorenzo Valley No. 718.

To ballot without reference to Investigation Committee
(C.M.C. Section 1006):

97

Decreasing Fee (C.M.C. Section 2804):
South Pasadena No. 367 to $420 .00; Columbia No. 388 to $500.00.

EXHIBIT B

Redwood Empire No. 683

To ballot on rejected applicants (C.M.C. Section 1008):
Santa Monica-Palisades No. 307
LIFE MEMBERSHIP

Fixing Fee (C.M.C. Section 2804):
Clarence L Fraser No. 294 at $625.00; Palo Alto-Roller No. 346 at
$500.00; Chino Valley No. 427 at $999.00; Morgan Hill No. 463 at
$1,062.50; Crow Canyon No. 569 at $750.00; Mission Bay No. 771
at $840.00.

Increasing Fee (C.M.C. Section 2804):
Union Kit Carson No. 58 to $945.00; Woodland No. 81 to $937.50;
Naval No. 87 to $675.00; Chico-Leland Stanford No. 111 to $792.00;
Keystone No. 161 to $750.00; Antioch-Brentwood No. 175 to
$1 ,000.00; Northern Light No. 190 to $1,000.00; Wilmington No. 198
to $1 ,050.00; Anaheim No. 207 to $1,200.00; North Butte No. 230
to $940.00; Evergreen No. 259 to $1,355.00; Lompoc No. 262 to
$1,092.00 : San Gabriel Southern California No. 278 to $835.00 ;
Redlands No. 300 to $1 ,000.00; Bellflower No. 320 to $630.00;
Alhambra Progressive No. 322 to $950.00; La Mesa No. 407 to
$835.00; Perris No. 411 to $940.00; South Bay No. 421 to $315.00;
Pittsburg No. 429 to $840.00; Golden Gavel No. 445 to $840.00;
Caledonia No. 486 to $1 ,250.00 ; Sun Garden No. 530 to $1 ,000.00 ;
North Hollywood No. 542 to $1,050.00; Shoreline No. 543 to
$1, 150.00; Triangle No. 548 to $937.50; Escalon No. 591 to
$1,050.00; Chula Vista No. 626 to $1,000.00; Saddleback Laguna
No. 672 to $1,000.00; Santa Ynez Valley No. 701 to $1,085.00;
Lakewood No. 728 to $1,050 .00; La Mirada No. 750 to $756.00;
Luther Burbank No. 752 to $840.00; Lawndale No. 753 to $833.35;
Rio Linda No. 786 to $1,000.00; Conejo Valley No. 807 to $940.00;

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws (C.M.C. Section 2082 through 2086):
Los Angeles No. 42; Union Kit Carson No. 58; Chico-Leland Stanford No. 111 ; Magnolia-La Cumbre No. 242 ; Welcome No. 255 ;
Pasadena Consolidated No. 272; Pacific Grove No. 331; Las Palmas-Ponderosa No. 366; South Pasadena No. 367; Granada Hills
No. 378; Columbia No. 388; South Bay No. 421; Capitol City No.
499; Garden Grove No. 505; Crow Canyon No. 569; La Mirada No.
750.

Stated Meetings (C.M.C. Section 2086, Article Ill):
Changing Date: Oriental No. 144; San Leandro Brooklyn No. 225;
Montebello No. 451 ; Golden Rule No. 479; Caledonia No. 486;
Queen Vista No. 540; The Gardens No. 621; Dos Palos No. 681;
Santa Ynez Valley No. 701; Northern California Research.
Changing Time: Georgetown No. 25; Oriental No. 144; San
Buenaventura No. 214; Downey No. 220; Artesia No. 377; Alpha
Shattuck-Stephens No. 431 ; Queen Vista No. 540; Los Altos No.
71 2; Sierra No. 788; Northern California Research.
Fees for Degrees (C.M.C. Section 2086, Article VIII):
Increasing: Hiram No. 43 to $111.00; Franklin No. 143 to $115.00;
Anaheim No. 207 to $150.00; Redland s No. 300 to $150.00; Ontario
No. 301 to $120.00; Exeter No. 424 to $90.00; Golden Rule No. 479
to $150.00; Escalon No. 591 to $76.00; Citrol No. 656 to $141 .00 ;
Liberal Arts No. 677 to $161.00 ; Seafaring No. 708 to $136.00.
Decreasing: Tejon No. 773 to $100.00.

99

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.oo; Fox-Coates oaylite No. 842 to $50.00; Southern California
48
Research to $15.00.

$
Fees for Affiliation (C.M.C. Section 2086, Article VIII):
Increasing: Table Mountain No. 124 to $10.00; Franklin No. 143 to
$14.00; Consuelo No. 325 to $25.00; Escalon No. 591 to $15.00.
Decreasing: Sunrise No. 840 to $105.00.
Dues (C.M.C. Section 2086, Article IX) :
Increasing: Tehama No. 3 to $25.00 ; Temple No. 14 to $30.00; San
Joaquin No. 19 to $50.00 ; Ophir-Bear Mountain No. 33 to $33.00;
Sacramento No. 40 to $48.00; Martinez No. 41 to $60.00; Illinoistown No. 51 to $25.00; Santa Rosa No. 57 to $50.00; Humboldt No.
79 to $48.00; Woodland No. 81 to $45.00; Naval No. 87 to $32.00;
Keystone No. 161 to $30.00; Antioch-Brentwood No. 175 to $48.00;
Claiborne No. 185 to $36.00; Northern Light No. 190 to $48.00; San
Simeon No. 196 to $60.00; Wilmington No. 198 to $50.00: Anaheim
No. 207 to $48.00 ; San Buenaventura No. 214 to $36.00; Mosaic
No. 218 to $48.00 ; North Butte No. 230 to $45.00; Evergreen No.
259 to $65.00; Lompoc No. 262 to $52.00; Anchor No. 273 to $35.00;
San Gabriel Southern California No. 278 to $40.00: Paso Robles No.
286 to $55.00; Elsinore No. 289 to $60 .00; Redlands No. 300 to
$48.00; Ontario No. 301 to $50.00; Tehachapi No. 313 to $50.00;
Temescal No. 314 to $55.00; Bellflower No. 320 to $30.00; Alhambra
Progressive No. 322 to $45.00; Needles No. 326 to $60.00; San
Bernardino No. 348 to $35.00; Fillmore No. 379 to $48.00; La Mesa
No. 407 to $40.00; Perris No. 411 to $45 .00 ; Chino Valley No. 427
to $45 .00; Pittsburg No. 429 to $40.00; Tyrian No. 439 to $36.00 ;
Golden Gavel No. 445 to $40.00; Torrance No. 447 to $40.00; Mount
Diablo No. 448 to $60.00; Morgan Hill No. 463 to $51 .00; Golden
Rule No. 479 to $40.00; Caledonia No. 486 to $60.00; Capitol City
No. 499 to $30.00; Ionic No. 520 to $50.00; Sun Garden No. 530 to
$48.00; Azure No. 533 to $48.00; North Hollywood No. 542 to
$50.00; Shoreline No. 543 to $55.00; Triangle No. 548 to $45 .00 ;
Warren G. Harding No. 579 to $42.00: Escalon No. 591 to $50.00 ;
Tujunga No. 592 to $50.00; Grizzly No. 601 to $36.00; Chula Vista
No. 626 to $48.00; Westminster FaiNiew No. 629 to $40.00; Poinsettia No. 633 to $30.00; VictoNille No. 634 to $48.00; Lomita No.
644 to $50.00; La Habra No. 659 to $50.00; Saddleback Laguna No.
672 to $48.00; El Cerrito-Albany No. 686 to $48.00 ; Santa Ynez
Valley No. 701 to $52.00 ; Anacapa No. 710 to $45.00: Lakewood
No. 728 to $50.00; San Juan No. 732 to $50 .00; Lemon Grove No.
736 to $42.00; Opportunity No. 740 to $38.00 ; Luther Burbank No.
752 to $40.00; Rio Linda No. 786 to $48.00; Yucca Valley No. 802
to $50.00 ; Conejo Valley No. 807 to $45.00; Sunrise No. 840 to

Decreasing: Riviera No. 780 to $24.00.
Charity Committee (C.M.C. Section 2086, Article X):
Increasing: Hanford No. 210 to $300.00; Redla~ds No. 300 _to
$150.00; West Los Angeles No. 373 to $100.00; L1bertas-Se~unty
No. 466 to $100.00; Golden Rule No. 479 to $100.00; Caledo~1a No.
486 to $150.00; Opportunity No. 740 to $250.00; Woodland Hills No.
811 to $250.00 .
RESOLUTIONS
Change of Meeting Place (C.M.C. Sections 2098 and 2100):
Rose' s Bar No. 89; San Leandro Brooklyn No. 225; Fallbrook No.
317 · Cahuenga La Brea No. 513 ; Loyalty No. 529; The Gardens No.
621: Saddleback Laguna No. 672 ; Polaris No. 730; Dana R. Weller
No.' 765 ; Northern California Research .

EXHIBIT C
TRIAL RECORDS
No. 2142--Petition for Restoration. A member of Table Mountain
Lodge No. 124 . Expelled December 18, 1979.
No 2173--Re-petition for Restoration. A dimitted Mason tried by
Maita-El Sereno Lodge No. 588. Expelled June 7, 1982.
No 2292--Petition for Restoration. A member of Temescal Lodge
No: 314 _ Expelled by Grand Lodge October 9, 1989.
No. 2319--A member of Crescent Lodge No. 45.

Suspended

November 5, 1990.
No. 2320--A member of Merced Lodge No. 749. Expelled April 13,
1991 .
No. 2321--A member of Vista Lodge No. 687. Found not guilty.
No. 2322--A member of Turlock Lodge No. 395. Suspended April
4, 1991.

100

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 2323--A member of La Mesa Lodge No. 407. Expelled June 4,
1991 .
No. 2324--A member ofTemescal Lodge No. 314. Suspended June
4, 1991
No. 2325--An Entered Apprentice of Gardena-Ascot Lodge No. 372.
Expelled July 2, 1991

101

TRIAL RECORD NO. 2142
Your Committee has considered the Petition for Restoration in Trial
Record No. 2142. Your Committee believes that the evidence indicates this
former member of Table Mountain Lodge No. 124 has shown sufficient
realization of the circumstances leading to his expulsion. This is evidenced
by his change of outlook, his rehabilitation, and acceptance of him ~y his
Lodge and community. Sufficient time has elapsed since the expulsion to
Indicate that these positive factors are not temporary changes.

No. 2326-A member of Jewel City Lodge No. 368. Expelled May
7, 1991.

Your Committee therefore submits the following Resolution:

No. 2327--A member of Azure Lodge No. 533. Found not guilty.

RESOLVED, that the Petition for Restoration in Trial Record No.
2142 be approved.

No. 2328--A member of Alpha Shattuck-Stephens Lodge No. 431 .
Expelled August 6, 1991.

Report ADOPTED.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
TRIAL RECORD NO. 2173

The Committee on Trial Review:
There have been referred to your Committee on Trial Review, since the
1990 Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge, eighteen (18) Trials, of
which three (3) are Applications for Restoration.
Your Committee has reviewed each of the Trial Records numbered
2316,2320,2321,23 23,2324, 2325,2326,2327,23 29,2329a,and2331 ,and
finds that in each case there was substantial compliance with the procedural
requirements of our Constitution and Ordinances, and the result is supported by the evidence in the records of each case and that there are no
miscarriages of justice.

In Trial Record No. 2173 , a former member of Malta Lodge No. 588 (now
known as Malta El Sereno No. 588) was charged with a violation of California
Penal Code No. 647a, in that he molested his step-daughter. a child under
the age of 18 years. He entered a plea of "Not Guilty" and a jury trial was
held on May 18, 1978, in which he was found "Guilty ." One of the conditions
of his sentence was that he register pursuant to California Penal Code
Section 290 as a "sex offender."

Your Committee.therefore submits the following Resolution:

After the conviction and sentence, which was affirmed on appeal,
charges of unmasonic conduct were filed on October 21, 1978. He was
found "Guilty" of unmasonic conduct and the penalty was fixed at Expulsion.
This was affirmed by Grand Lodge in October, 1982.

RESOLVED. that in each of the above numbered Trial Records. the
judgment and penalty imposed be and are ratified , affirmed and
approved .

He has applied for resto ration on three previous occasions: September
23, 1987, June 5, 1989, May 14, 1990 and these three applications were
denied on October 12, 1988, October 9, 1989 and October 8, 1990 by Grand
Lodge.

Resolution ADOPTED.
He again seeks restoration and has offered letters of personal reference
and recommendations, but has not submitted any independent evidence of
remorse and rehabilitation as suggest ed t o him in a letter from Grand Lodge
on October 16, 1990. Again, his request does not express any remor~e or
rehabilitation. He has not presented any evidence that he is still not required

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to be registered as a sex offender for his criminal conviction. We believe
that the petitioner fails to understand the crime of which he was convicted
and for which he was expelled. At the Stated Meeting held on July 2, 1991.
the Lodge recommended restoration.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 2319

102

The violation is so severe that your Committee feels that clear, unequivocal, independent evidence of remorse and rehabilitation must be given
before your Committee can recommend any action except that the petition
be again denied.
We therefore submit the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that the petition for Restoration in Trial Record No.
2173 be denied.

Report ADOPTED.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 2292
In Trial Record No. 2292, a member of Temescal Lodge No. 314 pied
"Guilty'' in Superior Court to embezzling more than $150,000 from his
employer, the Municipality of Fontana, California. In 1988, this conviction
gave rise to the filing of charges of unmasonic conduct and the Trial Master
found the member "Guilty" and set the penalty at Suspension. Because of
the seriousness of the crime the Grand Lodge increased the penalty to
Expulsion in October. 1989. The member has now petitioned for restoration
and provided letters from his present employer and others.
A letter of support for restoration was signed by 39 Masons who
acknowledge they were not aware of the facts of the charges. Pursuant to
California Masonic Code Section 2516, a vote of the Lodge was taken at a
Stated Meeting and 12 of 18 members voted to oppose this member's
restoration.
In view of the serious nature of the offense, the amount involved, the
vote of his Lodge and the brevity of time since expulsion, your Committee
submits the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that the Petition for Restoration in Trial Record No.
2292 be denied.

Report ADOPTED.

103

In Trial Record No. 2319, a demitted Mason, last a member of Crescent
Lodge No. 45 but now living in Coos Bay, Oregon, was charged with three
counts in Oregon being 1) conspiracy to manufacture a controlled substance - marijuana; 2) manufacture of a controlled substance - marijuana;
and 3) possession of a controlled substance - marijuana and defend~nt
entered a plea of "Guilty" to count 3. Defendant was placed on probation
for two (2) years, paid a $2,500 fine and forfeited the illegal equipment.
The charges filed by the Junior Warden of Crescent Lodge No. 45 were
1) engaged in a conspiracy to manufacture a controlle?. substance marijuana; 2) manufactured a controlled substance - maniuan~; and 3)
unlawfully and knowingly possess a controlled substance - man1uana. In
response. defendant in writing stated that he had pied "Guilty" in court to
possession of a controlled substance, marijuana. Th~ Trial Mast~r. fo~nd
him "Not Guilty'' of specifications No. 1 and 2 and "Gwlty" of spec1f1cat1on
No. 3 and set the penalty at Suspension.
RESOLVED, that in Trial Record No. 2319, the finding of "Guilty" be
affirmed and the penalty be Expulsion.
Report ADOPTED .

TRIAL RECORD NO. 2322
In Trial Record No. 2322, a member of Turlock Lodge No. 395 , was
charged with unmasonic conduct in that he willfully and feloniously did steal
approximately $6,000 from the Turlock Voluntary Fire Department.
The accused entered a written plea of "Guilty'' to the unmasonic charge
and claimed mitigating circumstances of his wife's illness and unemployment. The Trial Master found the accused "Guilty" and fixed the penalty at
Suspension.
The Trial Record contains cert ified copies of the Criminal Court
Proceedings wherein the accused pied "Guilty" to the felony of Grand T~eft
and was sentenced to 120 days in custody, 3 years probation and a fine;
and prior to sentencing the accused borrowed $6 ,000 from a relative to
provide restitut ion.

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI
A

acc use d was served with the ame
nde d charges on May 3, 1991.
The Trial
Com mis sion com men ced the mat
ter on May 10, 1991 .

EX HIB IT D

A review of the enti re pro cee ding
s revealed several violations of
the
Cal iforn ia Mas onic Code. You
r Com mitt ee on Trial Review beli
eve
s
that
tho se viol atio ns resulted in a mis
carriage of justice.
California Mas onic Cod e Section
335 8 required that an acc use
d be
served with trial sum mon s no
less tha n 10 day s prio r to the
Tria
l.
In
this
matter. the accused was served
with ame nde d cha rge s and trial
sum
mon
s
on May 3, 1991 . The Trial was
held on May 10, 1991, only sev
en days late r.
California Masonic Cod e Section
3352 pro vide s in par t that afte
r a Trial
Mas ter is app oint ed, only the
Trial Master may ame nd cha rge
s. In this
mat ter, the charges were ame
nde d by the accuser, after the
Trial Master
was app oint ed.
California Mas onic Cod e Section
3334 pro vide s in par t that an acc
use d
has 30 day s to respond in writ
ing to the cha rge s. In the inst
ant case. the
ame nde d cha rge s con tain ed new
specifications not con tain ed in the
original
cha rge s. The accused was not
give n 30 day s to resp ond in writ
ing. He was
only given 7 days.

tion :

Your Com mitt ee on Trial Review

therefore sub mits the follo win g

Res olu-

RES OLV ED. that the find ings of
"Guilty" of unm aso nic con duc t,
the
pen alty of exp ulsi on be reversed
and a new Trial be con duc ted
in
acc ord anc e with the California
Mas onic Cod e in a Lod ge other
than
Vista Lod ge No. 687 and San Cle
mente Lod ge No. 671 .
Rep ort ADOPTED.

107

VETE~~~~~~:~~;R

GOLDEN
1 , 1991 - 721
ISSUED SEP }EM BER ;...;~S
ISSUED TO DATE - 38,2 97
TOTAL 50 YEAR BU TIO NS ISS
UED TO DATE - 65
TOT AL 75 YEAR BU
occ ide nta l-Ca lifo rnia No. 1
h
-40
Frederick H. Ba r · · · · · 5-28
8-20 -40
Geo rge A. Car bon e . · · ·
Joh n H. Cog nett a . · · · 10-21-40
-4 l
Alfred A. Karahadian · · · 2-lo
-4 1
Austin W · Mos her · · · · · 5-15
9-23 -40
Nor man S. Nel son . . . . 1-27
-41
Joh n A. Pruett
. . . . . . 8-26-40
Har ry Walraven · · · · · ·
wes tern Sta r No. 2
1 -40
Charles R. Fou~t . . . . 10-3
11-6·40
Louis o. Woodflll · · · · ·
Teh ama No. 3
Jac k C. West . . · · · · · 5 -26-41
Ben icia No. 5
Cha rles A. Bye rrum · · · · 5-20 -40
4-9-38
Cha rles A. S.impso.n
.
Tuo lum ne No. 8
. d
Charles A. Mill
ar . · · · · 11 -7-40
Cor inth ian No. 9

. ht
Joseph l. W ng
· · · · · 4-22-41
Nev ada No. 13
Herbert A. Okell · · · · · 1-28-41
David L. Hol com b . . . . 5-28
-41
Tem ple No. 14
6-3- 37
Hillard C. Cra mpt on . . . 1·128-3 9
Raymond M. Sam pso n .. 7-29
-40
Alfred M. We st · · · · · .
Eur eka No. 16
I'
-41
George A. Be~ in · · · · · 7-23
8-9-40
Har old H. White . · · · · ·
San Joa qui n No. 19
-41
Raymond J. Bran dt . . . 5-27
5-28-40
Robert ~- Geo rge . . . . 11-1
8-40
Elwyn Simar~ · -. · · · · · _
_
Winfield E. Sinclair · · · · 4 21 41
Wa shin gto n No. 20
Harold E. <?arlson · · · · 4-17-41
_5 .41
Guy G. Heilman
· · · · ·6

Ma diso n No. 23
.
3-12
-41
-8-40
Ray mond E. B~rton .. . 3-31
George R. Curtis . . . . . 1·1-626-4
-41
0
Ben jam in F. Miller · · · ·
Richard A. Hol ub . . . . . 10-1
7-40
Jerr y H. Merenda · · · · ·
San Jos e No . 10
1 -40
Phillip B . Ger ow · · · · · 10-2
Mar ipos a No. 24
_ _
26 40
Ernest A. Eick wor th . . . 5-12
Mar vin L. Keever . . . . . 8
-41
9-23-40
Edw ard G. Kitchen, Jr. . .
40
Geo rge tow n No. 25
Geo rge F. Me leod · · · · 3-23 Clarence Clement se n · · 4-19-41
You nt No. 12
Gol den Gat e Spe ran za No. 30
-41
Asa C. Angell : · · · · · · 6-17
9-24 -40
_ 1-40 Charles A. Blac
Gor don F. J~ssiman . . . ~-;1
-21-41
-40 Henry J. Boss k . ·. .· ·. .· .· 55-2
8-40
Neil M. Jessir:1an · · · · · 9-21
-40
John Cap le · · · · · · · · _
Tho mas Jess1man . . . .12-1
24 -4 1
4-40 Raymond G.
Mea de . . . 58-21-40
Clifton A. Ma clea n · · · 6-24
-41
Helge B. Nelson · · · · ·
Rod erick M. McA rthu r · ·
11-3
0-40
Leonard 0. Rob erts on

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

108

Ophi r-Bea r Moun tain No. 33

Unio n No. 58
Lawr ence N. Kinch . . . . 6-19-40

San Dieg o No. 35
John son . . . 3-12-41
E.
Ric hard
Kent R. Parker . . . . . 12-11-40
Thom as A Parker, Jr. . . 9-20-40
Eberh ard Weerts . . . . . 5-31-41

Live Qak No. 61
5-13-41
Jame s W. Hami lton

Elmer Miller . . . . . . . . 6-20-39

Howa rd No. 37
J.
Charles Cooley . . . . . 5-20-41
Byron M. Lewis . . . . . 12-17-40
Gerfo rd R. Morn ing star . . 4-25-41
Rosc oe C. Savage .. . . . 2-6-41
Lester H. Simo nson . . . . 4-5-41
Sacr amen to No. 40

William G. Hamm ond . . . 3-19-40
Gord on A Nelso n . . . . 6-20-41
Robert L. Peters . . . . . 6-14-40
Benja min F. Quigl ey, Jr. . 4-23-41
Geor ge M. Stron g

. . .. 3-28-41

Marti nez No. 41
Frank M. Brian t . . . . . 10-30 -40
John A Davis . . . . . . . 5-15-41
Robe rt V. French . . . . . . 1-9-41
Wakefield Taylor . . . . . 4-10-41
Los Ange les No. 42
Louis Arons on .. . . .. 3-24-41
Morri s Levy . . . . . . . . 6-17-40
Jac k Moye r . . . . . . . . . 6-6-41
Hiram No. 43
Edwa rd F. Schm it . . . . . 6-27-41
Cres cent No. 45
n . . . . . . 8- 18-41
Broga
Clair A
. . . . . . 9-16-40
Ulrich
.
0
Lewis
Santa Rosa No. 57
Edwa rd E. Carillo . . . . . 3 -13-41
Roy L. Collom . . . . . . . 6-26-30
Robe rt L. Heath . . . . . . 4-18-40
Carl R. Lehman, Jr. . . . . 1-30-41
Walter B. Rathke . . . . . 5-26-38
Reginald A. Wiswell . . . . 9-26-40

Nato ma No. 64
Denn is E. Flint . . . . . . 10-24-40
Alexa nder B. Suthe rland . 5-22-41
Morn ing Star No. 68
Russell G. Crow e . . . . . 4-23-41
Kenn eth P. Evick . . . . . 12-26-40
Albert Luck . . . . . . . . 5-14-41
Walter G. Noac k . . . . . 11-28-40
lone No. 80
Richa rd R. Hook er . . . . 1-24-41
Jame s K. Mace . . . . . . . 5-4-40
Wood land No. 81
Harley E. Jull . . . . . . . 9-26-40
5-22-40
Harry L. Need ham . . .
Nava l No. 87
ghan .. . 6-10-41
Calla
D.
ld
Haro
. . . . . . 4-22-41
zl
Urban
Alfred
St. Helen a No. 93
Carl C. Mak . . . . . . . . . 8-7-4 0
Orov ille No. 103
John D. Came ron . . . . 5-10-41
Geor ge H. Gilbert, Jr. . . 12- 10-40
Geor ge H. Hollid ge . . .. 3-11-41
Willia m D. Huff .. .. . . 9-30-40
Conrad L. Weis ker . . . . . 3-4-41
Lexin gton No. 104
Myro n A Naum an . . . . 12-23-40
Tom R. Richa rdson . . . . 5-26-41
Theo dore Zuck erma n . . 11-18-40

Dona ld H. Slater

. . . . . 4-22-41

Eden Stan dard No.1 13
Elwo od D. Bona .. . . .. 4-9-41
Wood row W. Fair . . . .. 2-24-41
. . . 6-25-40
Herb ert W. Lawless
Robe rt N. Leard . . . . . . 3-24-41
Glenn D. Lym .. .. . . . 6-13-41
Thom as W. Store r . . . . 4-30-41
Conc ord No. 117
Elvin W. Lindf eldt . . . . . 3-11-41
Alam o No. 122
Raym ond C. Granieri . . . 1-23-40
Soto yome -Curt is No. 123
John E. Carri ger . . . . . 8-15-38
Rene G. Delagnes . . . . 3-26-41
Edwa rd H. Haczela . . . 10-16-39
Nelso n E. Poe . . . . . . . 2-8-39
Geor ge M. Stefani . . . . 7-24-40
Table Moun tain No. 124
Paul H. Blain . . . . . . . 8-14-40
Gustave B. Faure . . . . . 8-20-40
Dona ld J. Paisley .. . . . . 7-1-41
Roge r Taylo r • . . . . . . 11-12 -40
LaFa yette No. 126
Benja min F. Blane y . . . . . 4-8-40
Geor ge D. Dowd . . . . . 4-10-40
Herm ann No. 127
Willy H. Gehr ke . . . . . . 9-30-40
Visal ia No. 128
Jame s L. Parks . . . . . . 4-17-41
Charles A Stron g . . . . . . 6-5-41
Wood bridg e No. 131
Ches ter E. Wildm an . . . 1-30-41

Arcat a No. 106
Clyde A Patenaude . . . 9-30-40

Since rity No. 132
Harry E. Wel sh . . . . .. 7-27-40

Chic o No. 111
. . . . .. 12-11 -40
Athey
H.
n
Melvi
Ernest R. Bruce . . . . . . . 5-6-41
Warren L. Jone s . . . . . 10-25-40
Theo dore Meria m . . . . 12-3-40

Vaca ville No. 134
Josep h B. Mont gome ry · . . 4-5-40
Leba non-P acific No. 136
Herb ert Blum entha l .. . . 8-21-40

109

San Fran cisco No. 139
6-25-41
Bert T. Bake r . . . . . .
8-25-41
.
William H. Behn ken
8-31 -40
.
.
.
Don L. Burgess . . .
-27-40
11
..
William H. Kirkp atrick
1
6-18-4
.
.
.
ken
Luttic
Frank G.
1
4-16-4
.
.
.
.
.
Muir
our
Seym
Dona ld C. Singe r . . . . . 6-25-41
Alber t M . Wein er . . . . . 6-23-41
Arthu r H. Word en . . . . 10-10-40
Graft on No. 141
A. Wrigh t . . . 3-28-41
nce
Lawre
Orien tal No. 144
2-18-41
Paul F. Balck . .
-26-40
11
.
.
.
.
.
g
Arthu r C. Ballin
40
8-27.
..
.
.
er
Coop
F.
r
Walte
Vitru vius No. 145
Willia m S. Forak er . . . . 9-14-40
Jame s R. Siber t . . . . . 6-15-39
Eel River No. 147
Jack N.D. Albee . . . . 8-15-41
Uoyd B. Ande rson . . . . . 5-3-4 0
Andr ew L. Clendenen . . 11 -20-40
Garvin G. Gobl e . . . . . 1-20-39
Ches ter B. Strom berg . . 4-10-40
Molin o No. 150
Walter W. Fitzgerald . . . 1-19-40
Redw ood City No. 168
John W. Keller . . . . . . 7-27-39
Emer y G. Miller . .. . .. 6-17-41
Clare nce E. Petersen . . . . 3-8-41
Miss ion No. 169
MacP hee . . . 10-15-40
R.
ter
Ches
Laverne H. Molle r . . . . 8-15-28
William Norb ert . . . . . . 8-20-40
Elk Grov e No. 173
Edwi n W. Beac h . . . . . . 5-4-40
Dona ld M. Conn er . . . . 8-23-41

. 6-6-39
John T. Reynolds . . .
Mark L. Wigh tman . . . . . 9-6-41

110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Antioch-Brent wood No. 175
11-30-40
Vito Machado . . .
4-25-41
.
.
.
.
.
Louis H. Roberts
Leonard L. Russell . ... 6-27-40
Ernest Wilson . . . . . . 11-30-40
Phoenix No. 178
10-14-40
. .
Day
Wylie N.
Floyd G. Killian . . . . . . 6-16-41
Fred Rhyne . . . . . . . 11 ·27-39
Ralph L. Stone . . . . . 11-28-39
Mendocino No. 179
Frank A Valentine . . . . 6-14-41
Petaluma-Ham ilton No. 180
William W. Gardiner . . . 10-5-40
George E. Lundberg . . . 6-26-41
Evening Star No. 186
Henry S. Ward . . . . . . 3-28-41

111

Richard M. Rockott . . . . 5-22-40
Marshall S. Wells . . . . . 6-12-40

Forrest C. Menges . . . . 6-30-41
William H. Staplin . . . . . 1-27-41

Alcatraz No. 244
Arthur F. Jennings . . . . 10-24-40

Salinas No. 204
Stanley L. Burchell . . . . 8-22-41
Maurice T. Haas .. .. . . 6-7-40
. . . 8-9-40
William L. Higdon
Alfred H. Junker . . . . . 6-28-40
Richard L. McCollum . .. 9-13-40
Edward l. Powers . . . . 11-26-40

Bakersfield No. 224
. 9-25-40
Charles H. Kreamer .
11-28-40
Charles E. Moore . .
. . 8-7-41
Charles A. Ross . . .
10-24-40
Martin J. Woodside .

Laurel No. 245
William C. Schmidt . . . . . 5-9-41

Olivet No. 205
John E. Argo . . . . . . . 3-31-41

San Mateo No. 226
. 5-23-40
Randolph E. Matlock
Alan S. Ryall . . . . . . . 2-29-40
Edward T. Zollner . . . . 11-28-40

Stanislaus No. 206
Dean Hagstrom . . .. . 12-28-40

Athens No. 228
Howard E. Moore . . . . . . 1-7-41

Rio Vista No. 208
Dudley N. Baker . . . . . 10-16-40

Vallejo Solano No. 229
George E.W. Blake . . . 5-21-41
11-25-40
Vernon M. Harris . . .
Leonard A. Kloski . . . . . 12-9-40
Franklin L. Obenhaus . . . 10-9-40

King David's No. 209
Robert P. Swanson . . . . 5-21-41

Oakland Durant Rockridge
No. 188
Tom E. Stowell ... . . . . 4-23-41

San Benito No. 211
Roy E. Hegg . . . . . . . 3-17-41

Marin No. 191
Howard N. Heisel . .. . . 1-24-40

Crocker No. 212
Louis Bottero . . . . . . . 1-27-41

Santa Barbara No. 192
Edwin W. Harmon . . . . 12-4-40

San Buenaventura No. 214
Robert Gowder . . . . . . 1-14-41
MaNin V. Olson . . .. . 10-29-40
Lloyd L. Wilson . . . . . . 10-22-40

Mountain View No. 194
Edward J. Fabbri . . . . . 6-11 -40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Landmark Buckeye No. 195
JosephD.Gritf in .. . .. 5-11 -39

Oak Grove No. 215
Charles A. Davidian .. . 6-17-41
Glendon E. Dill . . . . . . . 2-4-41

San Simeon No. 196
Victor R. Hatfield . . . . 11-19-34

Monterey No. 217
Charles W. Kolb, Jr. . . . . 4-5-41

Wilmington No. 198
Perry Harrington . . . . . 4-22-41

Mosaic No. 218
Ole G. Borch . . . . . . . 11-22-28

Hartley No. 199
Jack B. Vinson . . . . . . 4-29-40

Downey No. 220
Joseph C. Snyder . . . . 10-24-40

Wisdom No. 202
. 6-13-39
Ayers . . .
C.
James
10-31-38
Edward J. Cook
. 4-17 ·40
Daniel B. Leech . . .
. 4-29-40
William S. Osterholt .

Inyo No. 221
Neel T. Bell .. .. . ... 9-13-41
Roseville No. 222
George L. Erkson . . . . 8-13-40

North Butte No. 230
Jack F. Watson . . . . . . 4-25-39
Covelo No. 231
Claude E. Storie. . . . . 11-23-40
Calistoga No. 233
Willis V. McBeth . . . . . 10·24-40
Surprise Valley No. 235
James E. Darst . . . . . .. 1-3-41
Cicero L. Truitt . . . . . . . 4-4-41
Tustin No. 241
8-31 -21
Gates W. Burrows
11-15-40
.
.
.
Gossett
Charles L.
Magnolia-La Cumbre No. 242
. 3-28-41
Jerome N. Harwin
Earl W. Hollingsworth .. 2-26-41
Delmer W. May . . . . .. 5-13-41
Acacia No. 243,
Loyal F. Bisby . . . . . . . 4-28-41
. 9-24-40
Clarence E. Dubbs
. 2-27-41
Nelson T. Lewis . .
. 8-23-40
Forrest S. Lindsay
. 2-26-41
Calvin J. Rule . . .

Pomona No. 246
Frank A. Geyer .. ... . 11-17-39
George C. Reeder . . . . 2-11-41
Fresno No. 247
. 12-12-40
Alvin Bottorff . . . .
Vernon H. Crow . . . .. . 6-7-40
Stanley M. Stallings . . . 10-4-39
Fort Crook No. 250
John S. Parker . . . . . . 7-19-41
Stanley R. Williamson . . 6-10-41
Reading No. 254
Albert A Bryceson . . . . 1-29-41
Welcome No. 255
Boyd M. Chrisman . . . . 1-16-41
Lodi No. 256
Robert H. Baker . .. . . 3-22-41
William H. Pisani, Jr. . . . 11-27-40
Evergreen No. 259
6-13-41
Sherman G. Babcock .
7-18-40
..
.
Barnett
L.
Francis
Marlin W. Ditchey . . . . 1-31-41
George E. Schell . . . . . 10-24-40
Hesperian No. 264
Robert W. Mainland . . . . 3-5-41
Lewis R. White . . . . . . 11-1 -40
Orland No. 265
12-7-40
Fred 0 . Bunn . . . . . .
Galt No. 267
Bennie T. Casado . . .

8-20-41

Olive Branch No. 269
L.
Rollis Friend . . . . . . 6-24-41
Pasadena Consolidated No. 272
Stanley E. Kyle . . . . . . 11-13-29
5-29-41
Richard Loughborough
George R. Winder . . . . 4-11-40

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Anch or No. 273
Kenneth C. Evans . . . . . . 6-5-30

Silve r Gate No. 296
Charles A. Johnson . . . . 7-1-40

Arro yo No. 274
Walter H. Petterson . . . . 3-12-40
Oakd ale No. 275
r .. . . . . 5-27-41
Cosie
Clyde S.
t, Jr. . . 11-26-40
Cos!e
A
s
Jame

Redl ands No. 300
William H. Grip . . . . . .. 3-8-41
Don H. Harrawood .. . . 7-22-41
1-18-40
Leonard A Jones
41
6-30.
.
.
ubbin
MacC
N.
Nevin

Selm a No. 277
Robert E. Brose . . . . . 12-19-38

Santa Lucia No. 302
Harold J. Eade . . . . . . 10·24-40

San Gabr iel-S o. Calif . No. 278
Harold A Burgess . . . . 2-26-41
Elton T. Knowles . . . . . 9-11-40

Azusa No. 305
Leo R. Best . . . . . . . . 4-12-41

Hanf ord No. 279
Alvin D. McNeil . . . . . . 5-16-41
Madera Jopp a No. 280
Harold G. Anderson . . . 3-27-40
. 6-19-39
Gerald L. Crenshaw
5-28-41
.
.
.
away
Hath
B.
Russell
Harlie F. McNeil . . . . . . 1-25-41
Sout h West No. 283
Hewes A. Bell . . . . . . . 7-31 -40
Jose M. Cachuela . . . 11-13 -40
Robert T. Roddenberry . . 7-16-41
Paso Robl es No. 286
Albert C. Rist . . . . . . 10-17-40
Elsin ore No. 289
George E. Mackey . . . . 7-22-41
Benjamin W. Tarwater . 10-31 -40
Fello wshi p No. 290
Ross A. Davis . . . . . . . 6-26-41
Russell E. John son .. .. 7-30-40
Samuel J. Sargent . . . . 5-15-33
Santa Paula No. 291
Ernest M. Shively . . . . 11-12-40
Alfred A. Zurbruegg . . . 3-26-41
Los Gato s-Ge orge E. Tutt No. 292
Andrew L. Erickson . . . . . 2-1-41
Chester I. Johnson . . . 5-22-41
Melford B. Jorgensen . . 2-13-41

Gold en Ashl ar No. 306
Donald E. Cocking . . . . 5-29-41
Santa Mon ica-P alisa des No. 307
Ralph H. Ruud . . . . . . 7-16-40
Lee H. Young, Jr. . . . . . 10-10-28
Mon rovia No. 308
George M. Kopta . . . . . 10-24-40
Sisso n-Wh ite Pine No. 310
Leo D. Lowe . . . . . . . 4-14-20
Norw alk No. 315
Eugene P. Crawford . . . 2-27-41
Claud R. Holt . . . . . . . 10-31-40
Captain B. McClane . . . 3-19-41
William A. Smith . . . . . 5-15-41
John E. Willoughby . . . . 7-9-40
Sang er No. 316
Conrad G. Beck1old . . . 11-19-40
Martin Bekedam, Jr. . . . 6-10-41
Hiram J. Coop er . . . . . 6-24-41
Forre st J. Lettel . . . . . . 9-24-40
Robert L. Vernon . . . . . 10-29-40
Fallb rook No. 317
John K. Newlove . . .. . 5-28-41
Bellf lowe r No. 320
Leon DePartie . . . . . . 7-31-41
Alisa l No. 321
tt . . . . . 3-15-40
Abro
L.
ld
Arno
Maurice E. Jone s . . . . . 4- 18-40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

113

Whit tier No. 323
Clarence C. Olsen . . . . 4-30-41
Robert E. Ross .. . . . 10-31-40

San Fern ando No. 343
ge
Geor W. Frownfelter . . 4-17-41
Roy R. Lewis . . . . . . . 6-26-41

Cons uelo No. 325
Roland P. Hotchkiss . .. 7-10-41
Victor E. Smith . . . . . . . 5-3-41

Starr King No. 344
Carl V. Enderlein . . . . . 10-12-36
George R. Geppert . . . . 3-25-40
Walter M. Lehman . . . . 10-30-40
Uoyd K. Uoyd . . . . . . 11-25-40
Milton G. Patropulos . . . 8-11-41

Long Beac h No. 327
. 3-31-41
William C. Hopp e
. 4-24-41
.
.
.
.
Royal E. Rounds
. . 5-8-41
.
.
.
.
in
Bartley A. Burg
Redo ndo No. 328
Frederick E. Matthews . . 6-14·40
Vallee de Fran ce No. 329
Andre L. Caen . . . . . 10-16-40
Los Ange les Harb or No. 332
William A. Biegel . . . . . 1-17-41
Henry A. Halverson . . . . 3-26-41
Fred B. Jacobson . . . . . 6-11-41
George F. MacDonald .. 7-12-40
Karl R. Peterson . . . . 11-22-40
Covi na No. 334
William T. Burgett . . . . 10-28-40
Rial C. Dennison .. . . . 4-22-41
Wes t Gate No. 335
Harry L. Karson . . . . . 1-27-41
Jack Koff man . . . . . . . 4-14-41
Marshall S. Levin .. . .. 1-30-39
. 11-21-38
Edward Nemer . .
William A. Stomel . . . . . 5-19-41
Manuel Udko . . . . . . . 7-27-36
Fruit vale No. 336
Charles C. Sawyer . . . 11-18-39
Poin t Pino le No. 337
Raymond C. Gray . . . . 5-14-41
Oxnard No. 341
att . . . . . 1-28-41
Hogg
F.
John
. . 9-6-40
Robert B. Maxwell
. 9-14-40
Thomas B. Swo r
Glenn D. Walla ce . . . . 10-31-40

Palo Alto- Rolle r No. 346
Thomas P. Hudson .. . . . 4-9-41
McK inley No. 347
Edward C. West . . . . . 2-13-41
San Bern ardin o No. 348
. . . 5-15-40
Clemens W. Apitz
Norman W. Forrest . . . . 4-14-41
Chester A. McGinty . . . 10-31-40
Melvin W. Owens .. . . . 4-17-41
Victor G. Pinckert . . . . 11-19-36
Sequ oia-St. Elmo No. 349
William T. Brockwehl . . . 12-4-40
Howard L. Burdick. Jr. . . 5-27-41
Bradford S. Clark . . . . . 11-12-40
Gerald W. Devore . . . . 1-30-41
Hom er C. Drinkwater .. .. 4-8-41
Rollin W. Haight . . . .. 11-28-39
David F. Robin son .. . . 3-26-40
Guy C. Rosenlof . . . . . 9-24-40
Metr opol itan No. 352
rt
Robe L. Brooks . . . . . 10-22-40
John B. Didlake . . . . . 6-22-40
Espe y N. Hall . . . . . . . 3-29-41
Clarence E. Parke . . . . 9-17-40
Alexander Sarris . . . . . 10-28-40
Flavius G. Squires . . . . 5-19-41
Arthur B. West . . .. . . 6-12-41
Holly wood No. 355
Campbell E. Gilmore .. . 4-17-41
Robert T. Gilmore. Jr. . 2-27-41
Earl F. Williams . . . . . . 6-20-40

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mill Valley No. 356
Martin H. Seaver . . . . . 10-1-38
Charity No. 362
Dean R. Chamberlin . . 10-21 -40
Berkeley No. 363
David J. Baird . . . . . . . 4-15-41
William G. Schaefer . . . . 6-26-41
Las Palmas-P onderosa No. 366
Erwin A. Dann . . . . . . . 5-21-41
Lowell L. Mason . . . . . 4-10-41
Baysel Moyers . . . . . . 3-27-41
Herbert A. Rasmussen . . 2-24-41
South Pasadena No. 367
George W. Hutton . . . . 7-24-41
Paul A. Weilin . . . . . . 11-29-40
Warren J. Westling . . . 11 -19-40
Jewel City No. 368
Aubrey E. Fraser . . . . . 9-21-40
Harold L. Hostetter . . . 10-28-40
George F. McDonald . . . . 7-8-41
Ralph H. Swaisgood . . . 5-27-41
Marion Tintorri . . . . . . 9-26-40
Francis Drake No. 376
F. Jose Delarios . . . . 12-21-40
William L. Strawhum . . 12-12-30
Granada Hills No. 378
Fred A. Camp . . . . . . . 1-15-41
Theodore W. Hawes . . . 5-20-40
Oceansid e No. 381
AndrewT. Channell . . . . 3-19-41
Orosi No. 383
Fred H. Bear, Jr. . . . . . 4-17-41
Thomas A. Jadwin . . . . 4-17-41
Coalinga No. 387
Donald F. Rea . . . . . . 9-19-40
Columbia No. 388
Harry R. Peterson . . . . . . 5-9-41
Earl W. Purves . . . . . . 8-23-38

Internatio nal City No. 389
Evert 0 . Carroll .. . . . . 12-17-40
William A. Londeree . . . 6-13-40
Samuel E. McCann . . . . 4-29-41
. Robert McNulty . . . . . . 2-27-41
Meynard Miller . . . . . . 2-17-41
Bruce T. Nelson . . . . . 9-10-40
Francis M. Scott . .
4-11-32
Floyd C. Smith . . . . . . . 8-8-40
Raymond E. Spitzer . . . 10-28-40
Charles L. Way . . . . . . 2-15-40
East Belt No. 391
Ross W. Baker . . . . . . 11-8-40
University No. 394
William C. Buster . . . . . 1-27-41
Elmer L. Cannon . . . . . 11-25-40
Turlock No. 395
Carl R. Ahee . . . . . . . 6-24-41
William Brown . . . . . . 2-13-41
Apollo Woodstoc k No. 396
Enos C. Devine . . . . . . 8-25-39
Kenneth D. Robertson .. 5-14-39
Rising Light No. 397
Leo M. Brose . . .
3-28-41
Earl R. Quigley . . . . . . 7-30-40
Jack D. Stansbury . . . . 3-28-41
Leonard G. Walls . . . . . 7-24-37
Fraternity No. 399
Ole J. Mathson . . . . . . 10-16-40
Burlingam e No. 400
Morriss H. Kelley . . . . . 3-26-41
Alex J. Smith . . . . . . . 6-24-41
August R. Suhr . . . . . . 3-11-41
Robert S. Wilson . . . . . 8-27-26
Verba Buena No. 403
Robert L. Charlton . . . . 9-12-40
Donald E. Heaton . . . . 11 -17-38
Arthur W. Hellberg . . . . 2-20-41
Edward W. Prosser . . . . 4-19-41
Clarence A. Simons . . . . 5-2-41

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Moneta No. 405
Raymond T. Brock . . . . 4-22-41
Ambrose Dalrymple . . . 1-19-37
John D. Maddux . . . . . 7-25-40
Burbank No. 406
John A. Reece . . . . . . 6-10-41
Alexander W. Speirs . . . 4-22-41
Charles M. Van Der Zee . 3-20-41
La Mesa No. 407
Terrell A. Nisewaner . . 10-25-37
Perris No. 411
Chester Lemmon . . . . . 1-25-41
Charles B. Ratcliffe . . . . 12-4-40
Herman J. Wulfsberg . . . 5-28-41
Silver Trowel No. 415
Harry S. Bezman . . . . . 3-26-41
Upland No. 419
Henry M. Busch . . . . . 2-13-41
Alonzo M. Davis . . . . . . 1-7-41
Sidney Meyers . . . . . . 7-27-39
Kerman No. 420
William B. Sims . . . . . . . 5-9-41

115

Walter E. Randall . . . . . 6-24-41
Donald F. Sweet . . . . . 11 -19-40
Hammont on No. 433
George H. Hendricks .. 12-13-40
George Washingt on No. 435
Frederick M. Huddleson . 9-10-35
Robert L. Woodward . . . 5-27-41
Lancaster No. 437
Eldridge R. Faulkner, Jr. . 11-29-40
Joseph G. Houston . . . 10-18-26
Gilbert E. Morse . . . . . 7-24-41
Tyrian No. 439
Theron 0. Hodson . . . . 2-17-40
Charles H. Whelan . . . . 2-25-41
Coronado No. 441
David A. Davids . . . . . 7-27-40
James R. Hitch . . . . . . 11 -12-40
Thomas J. McNeill . . . . 5-13-41
Blackmer No. 442
Giles T. Brown . . . . . . 1-30-39
William M. Cattrell . . . . 9-27-37

Inglewood -James Kew No. 421
George W.A. Jolley . . . . 9-25-40

Carpinter ia No. 444
Robert H. Hough . . . . . 2-28-41
Herbert E. Shaw . . . . . 3-28-41

Eagle Rock Glassel! No. 422
Robert C. Ruffner . . . . . 9-24-40
Henry G. Scudder . . . 11-26-40

Golden Gavel No. 445
John E. Bergener . . . . . 9-25-40

Taft-Midw ay No. 426
Eugene E. Arnold . . . . 12-22-24
Cecil W. Kidd . . . . . . . 5-21-41
John A. Reinhardt . . . . 5-23-32
San Dimas No. 428
Harold S. Kendrick . . . . 4-28-41
Pittsburg No. 429
Earl A. Robinson . . . . . 9-28-40
Alpha Shattuck- Stephens No. 431
Clarence E. Dodson . . . 6-18-40
Armen N. Mardiros . . . . 3-25-41
Merle D. Randall . . . . . 5-21-41

Torrance No. 447
Ernest G. Maloy . . . . . 6-12-30
Charles A. Ruppel . . . . 1-17-41
Mervin L. Young . . . . . 7-26-40
Van Nuys No. 450
Thomas E. Cleland, Jr. . . 10-29-40
Richard N. Dorr, Jr. . .. 10-22-37
Albert W. Driver . . . . . . 10-25-40
Robert W. Hartsook . . . . 6-8-33
Lawrence R. Musselman .12-17-40
Mount Oso No. 460
Albert B. Patterson . . . . . 3-1-37
Lee W. Sloan . . . . . . . 1-16-39

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Paul Reve re No. 462
Eugene T. Laugenour, Jr. . 1_9 _41

Seasi de No. 504
Harol d H. Stuart . . . . . 12 _13 _38

Sun Garde n No. 530
Granger R. Glenn . . . . .. 1-2-41

Cente r No. 465
Eldon M. Gaede . . . . . 10 _9 _40
John H. Wilson, Sr. . . . . 9 _18 _40

Garde n Grove No. 505
Melvin S. Davis . . . . . . 11 _1 9 -4 0

Azure No. 533
Newell R. Carothers . . . 9-27-40
William R. Dilbeck . . . . 9-13-40

Culve r City-F oshay No. 467
Ott? N. Appel . . . . . . 10-20-40
Emil M. Lepp . . . . . . . 8 _12_40
Hartley A. Roberts . . . . 5 _19 _41
Amer ica No. 475
Raym ond S. Greenhill . . 3 _20 _39
Coac hella No. 476
n . . . . . 10 _21 _40
Carlto
ll
Rewe
Golde n Rule No. 479
Nimro d Conn, Jr. . . . . . 6 _28 _41
Acala nes Fello wship No. 480
John H. McCr um . . . . 11 _22 _40
Bell No. 483
Bruce N. Porter . . . . . 11 _28 _40
Chow chilla No. 485
Howa rd C. Green . . . . . 3 _1 3 _41
Caled onia No. 486
Dwigh t T. Doolittle . . . 12_19_40
John Sprague . . . . . . . 4 _17_40
James H. Stramler . . . . . 3_6 _41
Atasc adero No. 493
Richard P. Holman . . . 12_20 _40
Perke F. Keays . . . . .. 3 _28_33
Acorn No. 494
Paul C. Murray . . . . . . 3 _20 _41
Capit al City No. 499
N.
w~~Y Odell . . . . . . 10-25-40
Wiiham L. Sale . . . . . 10_18 _40
Harbo r No. 502
Glenn L. Clemetson . . . . 5_5 _41
Dean H. Potter, Jr. . . . . 4_21 _41
George R. Sargent . . . . 6-20-41

Zenit h Mt. Olive No. 5 06
John D. Eberly . . . . . . 4 _13 _40
William Habe r . . . . . . 1 _29 _41
El Segu ndo No. 507
es
Charl A. Cutbirth . . . . 11 _27_40
DeAn za No. 511
D~ight Durkee . . . . . . 10 _10-40
Spirl Rafalovich . . . . . . 2 _24 _41
Palm s-Ada ms No. 512
John A. McOuish . . . . . 11 _1 _39
Cahu enga- La Brea No. 513
Walter Dome rcq . . . . . 2 _25 _29
La Jolla No. 518
Austin l. Covey . . . . . . 12_2 _40
Jack J. Jones . . . . _ . . 6 _28 _41
George S. Ovanessott . . . 1_1 _36
Ionic No. 520
Jack J. Bayer . . . . . . . 2 _17 -4 1
John Biren . . . . . . . . . 4 _9 _41
Alexander P. Brody . . . 6_15_21
Sa.muel J. Sills . . . . . . 11 _18 _40
Irving Weisbart . . . . . . 12_4 -40
Orind a-Ply mouth No. 52 l
Pierce l. Hussey . . . . . 5 _22 _40
Michael M. Ream . . . . . . 6 _8_40
Louis F. Traverso . . . . . 10 _24 _40

Quee n Vista No. 540
Alfred l. Beeson . . . . . 9-15-40
Jesse A. Curts . . . . . 11-13-40
Fred V. Maloney . . . .. 6-12-41
North Holly wood No. 542
Arthu rT. Havens . .. .. 5-13-41
Shore line No. 543
Richard T. Burgess . . .. 5-25-40
Cecil T. Shoo k . . . . . . 2-12-41
Glend ale No. 544
11-17 -38
Wilbur H. Carnahan .
4-17-41
.
.
.
.
y
Dewe
F.
Richard
6-27-40
.
.
.
gel
Hufna
A.
William
. . 7-28-3 8
Arthu r G. Wood head
Tri Squa re No. 551
Clifford H. Almy . . . . . 9-25-40
Frank E. Clark . • . . . . . . 4-16-41
Arthu r E. Welch . . . . . . 2-15-41
Semp er Viren s No. 552
Sidney P. Bartlett . . . . . . 7-2-40
Walter H. Selvage . . . . . 4-20-4 0
Jay J. Swensen . . . . . .. 2-6-40
Don J. Thom pson . . . . . 8-6·40
Fairfa x No. 556
Josep h R. Filippo . . . . . 9-26-4 0

Beve rly Hills No. 528
Murra y H. Bennett . . . . 11 _13 _22
Addison B.C. Jones . . . 11 _21 _39

East San Diego No. 561
Howa rd G. Bell . Jr. . . . . 7-24-41
Chris tophe r Coom es . . 11-12-40
. 2-14-41
Glenn 0 . Poplin .
1-30-41
.
.
.
.
Henry E. Riis . . .
-40
10-31
.
.
.
.
Charles D. Small

Loyal ty No. 529
Robert Lyon . . . . . . . 6 _24 _41

Footh ill No. 564
H. Scott Carson . . . . . 10-17 -40

Catal ina Island No. 524
Malco lm J. Renton . . . . . 4 _9 _40

Pacif ic Rim No. 567
A. Scott . . . . 9-25-40
nce
Lawre

117

Elwood G. Stock . . . . . 6-25-4 0
Crow Cany on No. 569
1-21-41
James 0. Malone
Ralph A. Williams . . . . . 4-17-41
Russell W. Winkler . . . . 3-20-41
S.W. Hack ett No. 574
Ross L. Burnside . . . . . . 2-2-41
Charles G. Houg h . . . . 4-29-41
El Cajon Valle y No. 576
12-4-4 0
John B. Fleming
William C . Hall . . . . . . 2-18-37
Will iam T. Koppel .. . . . 8-28-41
Warre n G. Hardi ng No. 579
Elwoo d A. Orr . . . . . . 11-26 -40
Hans H. Ronning . . . . . 4-29-41
Santa Maria No. 580
Zenas Y. Coleman . . . . 12-15-37
Wasc o No. 583
Carl R. Waugh . . . . . . 5-21-4 0
Manc heste r No. 585
an
Norm G. Poff . . . . . . . 7-9-40
Frederick Willoughby . . 5-27-41
Malta -El Seren o No. 588
4-22-41
James C. Martin
Archie E. Page . . . . . . 1-28-41
Roy C. Whitelaw . . . . . 6-17-4 0
Comp ass No. 590
Paul L. Baumgartner . . . 3-24-3 9
Eugene Tennyson . . . . 1-26-40
Tujun ga No. 592
Gilbert H. Greene . . . . 9-29-3 8
Tri No. 595
Harry Warner . . . . . .

5-20-41

South east No. 596
Ronald H. Baker . . . .. 7-30-40
Kirk F. Basore . . . . . . 6-20-41
3-25-41
Robert A. Embleton
2-25-41
Raym ond T. Kolby
4-1'8-41
Herbe rt F. Rogers .

118

James R. Swaynie

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. . . . . 7-9-41

Jub ilee No. 604
Robert P. Kneeland .
. 4-16-41
Reginald K. Hills
.. 3-18-41
Sherman E. Nug ent
. 10-24-40
Jud son P. Sutherland . . 1-30-41
Pro vide nt No. 609
Curtis A. Hottman, Jr. . . . 2-10-41
Ralph H. Olsen . . .. . .. 7-2-41
Jac k W. Watts . .. . . . . 5·8-41
Can oga No. 611
John B. Brandal .. . .. 4-17-41
Thre e Pilla rs No. 613
Robert A. Gubel . . . . . 3-22-40
Joh n F. Holloway .. . .. 4-19 -41
Melvin E. McWherter . . . 6-27 -41
Jam es Snell . . . . . . . . 9-20 -40
Hem et No. 615
James B. Choate
10-15-40
Sam uel$ . Davis . .
12-17-40
Roy A. Patterson . .
. 5-28 -41
Myles H. Tho mps on
.. 1-9-41
R.E . Doll ey No. 616
Merritt A . Calkins . . . . . 5-14 -41
Marion F. Grimes . . . . 10-1 3-39
Poin t Lom a No. 620
Percy E. Essex .. .. . . 2-10 -41
Men orah No. 623
Saul M. Cutr ow . .
. 2-27-40
David L. Fox
. 9-24-40
David Lyons . . . .
. 3-26 -40
Leonard S. Miller .
. 6-14-40
Samuel Pensick . . . . . . . 4-8-39
Max Susa! . . . . . . . . . 9-24-40
A.M . Day ligh t No. 625
Ralph E. Hou ck . . . . . . 5-27 -41
Tho mas J. Kirby . . . . . 6-29-40
Chu la Vist a No. 626
Joh n H. Baird . .
. 2-12 -41
Austin Brow n . .
. . 6-4-41
Russell N. Cassel
. 9-19-40

Lam and a Par k Car mel ita No. 627
Geo rge V. Orr . . . . . . 6-18-40
Wes tmin ster Fair view No. 629
Orville E. Wood . . . .. .. 1-8-41
Nor mal Heig hts No. 632
Walter L. Cogley . . .
3-29-40
Chester 0 . Nelson . .. . 5-19-41
Clifton L. Richards, Jr. . . 9-25-40
Poin sett ia No. 633
Earl L Anderson .. . .. 7-28-41
Sherwood Anderson
. 9-26-40
Quitman T. Baker . .
. 10-26-38
Louis W. Kiligas
1-28-41
Lavere H. Latta . . .
4-21-38
Perry K. Robinson .
8-29-40
Lyle W. Smith . . . . . .. 6-22-39
Rive rsid e No. 635
Ellsworth L. Miller .. .. 6-10-37
Joh n L. McC oy . . . . .. 10-17-40
Com pos ite No. 639
Jose ph W. Fairfield
9-18-39
Arnold Furst . . . . . . . 5-21-41
Harold Wolpa . . . . . . . 5-27-40
La Cum bre No. 642
James F. McK one .. . . 6-13-40
Cre sce nta Can ada No. 652
Covington A. Edwards . . 6-12-41
Joh n 0. Spr eck els No. 657
Joh n C. Cash . . . . . . . 1-24-41
La Hab ra No. 659
Wendell M. Hammargren 11-22-40
Reseda No. 666
John M. Nelson . . . . . 11-21 -30
Floyd A. Shirk . . . . . . . 3-4-41
Joh n P. Jarm an No. 669
Richard W. Crissinger . . 2-21-39

Gre enle af No. 670
Morley E. Goo dnig ht
4-23 -41
George R. Urich . . . . . 6-26-40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

an
S Clem ente No. 671
3-9-37
ROY P· Joh nso n · · · · · · ·

Saddleba~k Lag una No., ~~:-38

Vista No. 687
Claude J. Wrig ht . .. . . 2-22-29
San Car los No. 690
.
-35
Charles B. Erwm · · · · · 4-11
4-10-40
Walter T. Kellogg · · · · ·
I ndia n Wel ls Vall ey No. 691
.
James A. Davis . · · · · · · 5-5-41
Palm Spr ings No. 693
Thomas A. Jensen . . . . 4-19-40
B ixby Kno. lls Nep tune No. 699 1
Robert Martm · · · · · · · 5-14-4

Russell S. Atkinson · · · · 4-2-36
Ralph M. Barger · · · · · S-29-39
oon ald J . Feerer · · · · · 9-14-36
Thomas G. Oates · · · · · 1-18-39
Robert C. Rob b · · · · · 11-22-38
Jaco b Stearn · · · · · ·
Los Cer ritos No. 674
6-11 -35
Harry Kay · · · · · · · · · 11-19-40
Raymond Tye · · · · · ·
Pon dero sa No. 700
Mod esto No. 675
.
10-5
Don
10-2
ald
3-40
J. Miller · · · · · · 8-24-39
Harold 0 . Blak~ley . . . 6-24-41
-40
Ampless L. Moo re. . . . .
Robert M. Colher · · · · · 3-19-41
Clarence J.E. Olson . . .
Sea farin g No. 708
Cha
rles
W. Sergeant . . . 4-30-40
Will ow Gle n No. 676
.
-41
Ana cap a No. 710
Robert A. Basile . . . . . . 1-29
3-31-41
Gilbert M. C~lbe~k . . . · 10-30-40 Sherman Sampson · · · · 6-16-41
George o. P1cett1 . · · ·
Los Alto s No. 712
libe ral Arts No. 677
1
Milton W· Magee · · · · · · 6-6-4
1.1-40
11-8-37
1
Andrew J. John~on : · · · 6-13 -38 Joh n w. Stout · · · · · ·
Ernest J. Panosian · · · ·
Blue Lak es No. 714
Car mel No. 680
Wilbur L Roberts . · · · · 12-17-40
3-1-40
Kenneth D. Brown · · · · B-28
-40
Este ro No. 719
Jack T. Clayton . . . . . ., 1-11-40
Geo
rge
M.
Schne1'd er . . 8-22-41
William A. Davenport · ·
Min eral King No. 720
Bar stow No. 68 2
W\lli
am R. Wade . . . . . . 1-9-41
James c. DeWolf . · · · 11 -15-40
Hom e No. 721
Tron a No. 68 4
6 -25-41
.
2-239
Nath
an H. Jaco by · · · · 10-2
Ceil E. Jones · · · · · · ·
2-40
Louis Wexler . · · · · · ·
San Mar ino No. 685
. 5-9-40
Sa n Ram on Vall ey No. 724
James W. Du~n · · · · · · 5-11
4-11-39
-39 Geo rge F. Max
on · · · · · 4-9-40
Paul M. Jebbia · · · · · · 9-28-38
Joh n R. Trayler . · · · · · ·
Irving H. Joh~son · · · · · 10-24-30
San J.ua n No. 732
Bernard F · Kmg · · · · · 11 -13-20
.
7-11-40
Francis J. Marshall · · · 5-26-41 Harrison
W.·
Rice · · · · · 1o-31-40
Carter F. Moo re . · · · · ·
Floyd c. Rister . · · · · ·
El Cer rito- Alba ny No. 686
George Fell · · · · · · · · 11-5-40
0

120

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lemo n Grove No. 73 6
Ralph D. Botten . . . . . . 11 _2 _40
Paul L. Wood . . . . . . . 7_27_40
Luthe r Burba nk No. 752
Georg e C. Peters on . . . 2 _27 _41

Yucca Valle y No. 802
Ro bert l. Dowell . . . . . 6 _26 _39
Cone jo Valley No. 8o 7
Jame s Mattin gley . . . . 12_18 -4 0

Bi~entennial Dayli ght No. 830

San Pablo No. 754
ger . . . . . 1_24_41
Barrin
A.
F'.ed
Vm~ent J . McCa rthy . . . 3 _10 _41
Cecil J. Taylo r . . . . . . . 1 _20 _41

Clav1s C. Gadd . . . . . . 5 _29 _41
Wray N. Odell . . . . . . 10_25 _40

Clayt on Valle y St. John 's No. 756
Peter A. Della-Vedova .. 6 -10-41

75 Year Pins Prese nted

Lakes ide No. 760
Carl M. Betsc her . . . . . 2 _15_41
Arabi c No. 763
Sab~ N. Debb as . . . . . . 2 _5 _34
Sabin G. Nassi f .. . . . . . 5 _7 _40
John Samo re . . . . . . . 10_4 _37
Missi on Bay No. 77 1

Merl I. Whor low . . . . . . 10_2 _39
Tejon No. 773
Wayn e H. Kaler . . . . . . 5 _20 _41
Sierra No. 788
Harry M. McKn ight . . . . 8_14 _41
Lawre nce J . Nelsen . . . . 9-23-3 7

Petaluma-H~milton No. 180
Berge r Bense n . . . . . . 9 _22 _15

O~kland Duran t Rock ridge
No. 188
Leroy S. Williams . . . . . 4 _22_14
San Mate o No. 22 6
rd
Edwa T. Mitche ll . . . . 6 _23 _16
Turlo ck No. 395
Otto E. Zimm erman . . . 3 _30 _16
The Garde ns No. 621
Willis Scott . . . . . . . . 9_16_14

GRAN D LODG E OF CALIFORNIA

121

REP ORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER
rnia:
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of Califo
individ ual activit ies
The repor t of the Grand Lectu rer is not a repor t of his
the Grand Lodge
to
report
a
,
rather
is,
it
ee;
or those of the Ritual Co mmitt
the confe rring of
in
work
our
of
purity
the
of its own progr ess in maint aining
the degre es of Maso nry.
tic work throu ghout
Confo rmity, unifor mity and excell ence in the ritualis
Lodge sinc e its incep tion.
the jurisd iction have been the goals of this Grand
posur e to the princi pal
Our ritual provid es the candi date with his first ex
may not remem ber much
tenets of Freem asonr y, and while the candi date
h which he has passed,
regard ing the seque nce of the cerem onies throug
prese nted and the dignit y
he will remem ber the mann er in which the ritual is
ritual within our jurisd icwith which it is perfor med. It is to the unifor mity of
the dignit y with which it
tion, to the mann er in which it is prese nted, and to
o ur jurisd iction have
is perfor med that the several levels of instru ction within
been focus ed and dedic ated during this past year.
is recog nized by the
The impor tance of the const ant review of our ritual
syste m of instru ction.
Ritual Comm ittee, and, in keepi ng with the estab lished
all of the Ritual , to its
confe rence s were held in each Divisi on during which
lectur e, and candi date's
minut est detail , was reviewed. Each degre e.
an impre ssive mann er.
profic iency was exem plified by the Inspe ctors in
ction for the Office rs
These Inspe ctors, in turn, condu cted Schoo ls of Instru
and Coac hes of their respe ctive Distric ts.
Lodges held and
Masters and Office rs' Coach es of the constituent
for the office rs of their
condu cted Schoo ls of Instru ct ion and rehea rsals
individual Lodge s.
ctio n, and rehea rsals
In additi on to the Confe rence s, Schoo ls of Instru
ghout the jurisd iction
noted , semin ars were held by the Grand Lectu rer throu
semin ars contin ues to be
to provid e add itio nal instru ction. This progr am of
oppor tunity to meet with
well receiv ed and affo rds the Grand Lectu rer the
and d iscuss ritual. This
the Breth ren on a o ne-on -one basis to review
program must be contin ued and expan ded .
ence and unifor mity
At each level of instru ction the goal has been excell
to the many d edicat ed
in the work. The succe ss enjoy ed at each step is due
ish to conve y my sinc ere
Breth ren who give so unselfishly of their time and I w
thank s to each of them .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the six Assistant Grand Lecturers.
my colleagues on the Ritual
Com mitte e. Thank you for your strength
, supp ort and the warm bond of
frien dshi p that has pervaded our year of
service toge ther. I coul d not have
done this witho ut you.

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE

122

To the Insp ecto rs, that hard y band of ded
icated Mas ons who have done
yeoman work throu ghou t our jurisdictio
n. Their's is an indispensable service to Mas onry and no praise is too grea
t for their unselfish cont ribut ions
of time and talent. The Ritua l Committe
e joins me in than king these
"wor khor ses" of the juris dicti on for their
outstanding service.
To thos e serving as Officers' and Cand
idates' Coaches and to the
stalwart Past Masters. that 5% that keep
s the Fraternity going.
In the last analysis, however, the true cust
odia ns of the Ritual are the
Masters and Wardens of our Lodges. Wha
tever success there may be at
each stage of instructio n, the manner in
whic h the light of Free mas onry is
brou ght to our initiates rests ultimately with
them . Our Ritual is the foun dation upon whic h Freemasonry stand s and
with out it our Fraternity woul d be
an emp ty shell, devoid of its strength
and beau ty. But a poor job of
preparation, a poor delivery, a presenta
tion of that Ritual witho ut mea ning
or dign ity and we have robb ed the cand
idate of the light whic h he soug ht
and have set a poor example for the office
rs who may follow. And while
Coac hes, Inspectors, Assistant Grand Lect
urers and your Grand Lecturer
stand ready to assist, the success of our
Crah lies ultimately in the desire of
our Masters and Ward ens to do their best,
and in their willingness to put
forth that effort necessary to the task at
hand .
In closing, I wish to express my pers onal
than ks to the Grand Master
for his supp ort: to the Grand Lodg e Offic
ers who have acqu itted them selves
so ably : to the Grand Secretary' s staff
for their continued and valued
assistance. with a very special than ks to
Very Worshipful Robert A. Klinger,
a Brot her who hono rs me with a friendshi
p I will always cher ish. Brot her
Klinger has served our Fraternity with
a tirele ss dedication, a devo ted
purp ose. and brilliant efficiency. Bob, I
wish both you and Marilyn the very
best as you ente r retirement and look forw
ard to a cont inuin g close association. Finally. to you, my Brethren, for
your cooperation, patience and
unde rstan ding . It has been a great privil
ege work ing with you both individ ually and collectively. Without you
all this would be meaningless.
Respectfully submitted,
Ulysses G. Patr opul os. Gran d Lect urer
Report ADOPTED.

123

MA SON IC HOM ES OF CAL IFO RNI A
M t Worshipful Gran d Lodge, F·& A·M · of California :
To the os
. Hom es of California, a charitable
The Boar d of '.rustees of the M~~o~1~he
State of California , respe.ctful~y
corp orati on organized unde r theRla rt
f the Mas onic Hom es of Cahforrna
its ninety-ninth Annual epo o
presen1~
J I
for the fiscal year u Y 1 • 1990 throu gh June 30. 1991 .
ORG ANIZ ATIO N OF THE BOA RD
.
n Fran cisco California on Octo ber 11,
The Board of Trustees me~ in .sa Th elect
i~n of Stanley M. Cazneaux
e
1990 for the purp ose o f O rganization ·
(548) Senior Grand ard en·.
0
(191 ), Deputy Grand Mas ter; R. S~~~
~~an
~~arde~. was formerly reported
and Warren J. Blomseth (551). Ju
. .
of the California Masonic Code .
to the Board and pursuant to the provd1s1onsff.1c'10 In addition to the Gran
d
·
they beca me members o f the Boar ex-o
ed of the following Trustees for term s
Lodg e Officers. the Board was com pos .
t' on of Grand Lodg e in the years
as of the close of the Annual Communica
'
indicated :
(400)
Victo r How ard
1991
(685)
Roy J. Henv ille
(480)
Alvin J. Weis
(448)
Eugene R. Perkins
1992
(417)
Gerald A. Sharer
(547)
Warren T. Buschmann
(450)
William W . Dickson
1993
(405)
Vert B. Lobb
(652)
Erne st A. Pool eon
te hen Doan (548 ). and Warren. J.
Stanley M. Cazneaux (1 9 1). R. SG p d
Master and Senior and Juni or
Blomseth (551) . respehctive~~~~~~~~re:
a;rustees .
Grand Warden s. are t e re
.
lected President of the Board and Alvin J.
Roy J. Henv1lle. p .G.M .. ':"'as e.
d b virtue of their offices as Grand
Weis was elected Vice President. an
y p Wilkins (547 ) was elec ted
G
etary Hen ry ·
Treasure r and ran d Secr
Kl'
r('
Treasurer and Robert A. inge 1 20) was elected Secretary .

w

124

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

ORGANIZATION OF STAFF
Paul Boyar became the Administrator at Union City
on June 1, 1989,
and has completed two years in that capacity.
Kira Reginato, Director of Outreach Services, went on
maternity leave
on March 15, 1991 and Karla Griffin became the Interim
Director.
Brother John A. Rose (272) completed his tenth year
as Administrator
at the Home in Covina.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

City and Covina, and the balance of the Comm ittee in

125

all matters concerning

Admissions.
we acknowledge with genuine thanks the outstanding
cooperation of
Committee members Warren Buschmann, Roy Henvi
lle, Vict~r Howard,
Eugene Perkins, Ernest Pooleon , Gerald Sharer and
the assistance by
Administrators Paul Boyar and John Rose.
Real £state Report
by Gerald A. Sharer, Chairman

Our Homes Representatives, along with Lodge Comm
ittees, interview
our applicants for admission to the Homes and those
for Nonresident
Assistance.

The Real Estate Committee of the Masonic Homes of
California consists
of Gerald A Sharer, Eugene R. Perkins and Vert Lobb.

MEETINGS

The function of the Committee is to dispose of Real
Estate made
available to the Masonic Homes by residents, gifts
and wills and other
bequests.

Meetings of the Trustees are usually held on the first
Wednesday of the
month, alternating between the Union City and Covin
a Homes.
The meetings are frequently attended by the Chairm
an of the Homes
Endowment Board, as well as some of the Endowment
Board members.
Many Committee meetings are held on the Tuesd
ay afternoon or
evening preceding the regular meeting. Most of the Comm
ittee Reports are
prepared in advance for distribution at or prior to the
regular meeting.
You will note that the Administrators and members
of the Board of
Trustees have been given the opportunity to participate
in the preparation
of this Annual Report as follows:
Admis sions Report
by Alvin J. Weis and Ver/ Lobb, Co-Chairman

The Board meets monthly, alternating in the North
at the Union City
Home and in the South at the Children's Home in Covin
a. The Admissions
Committee has Co-Chairmen. Currently, Alvin J . Weis
serves as Chairman
in the North and Verl Lobb as Chairman in the South
. They are supported
by six other members of the Board of Trustees; three each
from the Northern
and Southern part of the State. The considered recom
mendations of the
full Committee are presented by the Chairmen to the
Board for their approval. The Co-Chairmen are responsible to make the
necessary coord ination with the Masonic Homes Representative, the Admin
istrators of Union

During the past year, sales of Real Estate inventory
has generated
$3, 126,762.00 income for the General Fund .
Also, Notes Receivable from sales of Real Estate is now
handled by the
Accounting Department in San Francisco. These
notes are secured by
deeds of trust.
Physi cal Fa cilities Repo rt
by William Dickson, Chairman

Union City:
A major change was made this past year with the
engagement _of
Marriott Corporation to manage the operation and maint
enance of the entire
facility as it concerns the physical buildings and groun
ds.
Initially, they made a detailed survey of the entire
site and made
recommendations with regard to operation and proce
dures , personnel,
maintenance and compliance with the various state,
county and local
agencies and laws.
As a conse quen ce , all mech anical equip ment
rooms are bei_ng
upgraded. Modifications were made to the fire alarm
system . All handhng
of toxic material was reviewed, short-comings correc
ted and generally a
"top to bottom look in all the corne rs inspection" was
made .

126

IA
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
A computer system w
as installed to mo nito r
maintenance it
eventative
identified. This syste~:~I ~~~
cont.rel with all ::~kc~;ently
fo~o~~~~
e on accountable work ord ers
quality assurance check~.g don
.
Training pro gra ms for personnel is being established
and has been well
received.

Our cemetery on M. .
has been
Boulevard, north of the Home,
completely renovated . rssron
The main 400 000
gal lon wat er tank b h. our facility was buil t in the
'
earl 19 •
erely cracked An e md
sev
was
and
s
.20.
plac~
ew stru ctur al con cre te lining wa s
wall Teti .
ting
exis
inside the
on coa ted flow val
·
.
~es were installed to
protect against
in the event 0 f
loss
er
wat
earthquak AJ massive ency b k
pipe break du t ~n
a
ro . e o
e. so, emerg
ac up plastic pipe is bein
the event of fine rupture
tos pita l facilities
Prieta quake
one of
o water due to pipe failure was
e most serious prob/ems.

fol~~in;~~ ~°;~~

show~d~~~~~!sof

~oma

In addition to the abo v
ent and sma ll port
;;':Jgency tools, equipm
abl e generators have been :~~
use in th
tor
lity
faci
around the
e event of
an emergency.

·
The old boil er ho use h as been demofi h d
build.
s e as it was a non -co nfo r . g
th
ear
t
ren
cur
the
er
min
rng Und
quak~ code. In the process an aba
con cre te oil bunker was di
soil
bunker,
of
restoration of the
and
,
val
e~o
of
s necessitated an expenditure approx1matel y $250 000

~~~~ition t~is
Th

e

~~~~:~~a~: =~~~mpanying

s edam kitchen remoc1 I · ·

'contam~~~i:~
. .

ess . It is a difficult job in that this

;~a ~ajor renovation and the di:t:~n~r~gr
.

ration . Our
~e ~~cpht in ope
Korpi, ~ietary Direc~o~na~~s:h
staff for the ir
fo~b::r~~c~~~~sc oop
en
eration.
Cov ina :
.
A major infestation of termit
of regular insect
:.1
:,;~s, sc~vered in spitnedon
con trol applications. and neces:
e.
bee
igat1on has
A soil investigation was mad e to study 0
pro ble m R
Which

:~ee

~~ton.u~~j~:~~:n~:t::e~a
equdrtr
w~ ho;~~~l:~~~~~~~sa~~~Y~ngubscon

the children's dining roo
A new roof was installed over
administration and library.

127

m. children's

plans.
numerous oth er problems and
These are the highlights with
to Warren
for his help and expertise and
Special thanks to Gerry Sharer
ers of the
mb
me
are
All
.
th for their help
Buschmann and Warren Blomse
r.
Committee. It's been a busy yea
Rep ort
Financial Planning and Bud get
an
irm
Cha
by Warren J. Blo mse th,

Homes'
get Committee of the Masonic
The Financial Planning and Bud
neaux,
Caz
M.
nley
Sta
n,
udes the Cha irma
Board of Trustees presently incl
nsel
cou
ing
tinu
con
and
t
valuable suppor
Alvin J . Weis and Vert Lobb, with
of the Board.
from Roy J . Henville, President
mittee
siderable challenge to this Com
This past year has been one of con
all levels of
ed and substantially improved
as you r Board greatly enhanc
medical
h the maj or emphasis was in the
service at both Homes. Althoug
rational
d into all administration and ope
services areas, the effort reache
f did in fact
Homes Administrators and staf
functions. Your Board and the
and general
nt, from buildin g maintenance
address all facets of environme
ic (recently
blishment of a full service clin
facility ambiance, to the esta
full-time
and podiatry units) staffed by two
expanded to incorporate dental
imum levels
Homes were established at opt
doc tors. Staffing levels at both
d. If you
of care regardless of level of nee
to ensure the highest standards
a half, you
Covina within the last year and
have not visited Union City or
the "new"
very glad you too k the time to see
really should do so. You will be
Masonic Homes.
Board
ement and improvements, your
To facilitate all aspect s of enhanc
izing
hor
d step in mid-fiscal year by aut
took a major and unprecedente
ce
wan
allo
00,000. This amount included an
budget adju stments of ove r $1,2
rict
rest ed
nge . The operating budget was
for a significant accounting cha
as inco me
ted income reported separately
to include expenses only with rela
ct was to
For fiscal year 1990-1991 the effe
and not utilized as an "off-set ."
ner, for this
by over $300,000. In like man
increase the operating budget
all of which
get was increased by $572,000,
fiscal year (1991-1992) the bud
me (see
ugh off-setting and related inco
is expected to be recovered thro
below) .

128

for

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I~ ~=.~~~ce~~~~:::,:,~":x~~~~::~~~:~~:~~~~~•:~~:i=~~~~~:s
;an.Fra ncisco

o~ina
Union City
Grand Total

$ 1,573 .727
2,025,472
13.587, 182
$l 7,186.381

Th.e Board of Trustees, at the June 1991 Board meetin
ng depreciation, for the current fis~~la~::~~~i~gn
~~~~a~~g1 b9u9d2gbet, lexcf~di
• Y ocat1on as follows:
•
San Francisco
Covina
Union City
Grand Total

$2,390,920
2,364,475
14,397,321
$19,152 ,716

As noted above, it is expected that related income will r
educe the actual
out-of-pocket expenditures by $5 72 000 prod . an annual
net cash flow
ucing
•
b
0 r expense udget for the year of $18,580,716.

f~lo:~~g~;;;,o~~.~~t ~,;;.c;i~~~~i~e ~~d~·;.~~~·:~~ ;';';.~~i:'i°~~·~~

~:~~~= f~r~ce~~;~:~t f~~~;~~::.ion is expected to approach two m~lion
acknToi:~ Committee would .like to take this opportunity to recognize and
by
the Boar~~ehth~ ext~e.mefy important series of studies being conducted

as related t e oar. is present!~ engaged in an in-depth studyd of funding
. ,
o operating expenditures and both fundin
~e~~:~:tures, as relate~ to optimum f~cility utilization ba;~~n ~~~~~:~~
of
the com~~~ms~~d~=~sh~fi ne~ds. The thoug.h~ul evaluation and findings

~~~~~:~sp~=~~~;t~~~~:snsdo~~~~~=
~~~ !:~;.e~r~e~~~~d~~~~~:4~~rt~
d
ee s perspective nothing the Boa d

mi
.
r may o
is of greater importance than this effort to upd~te the Ion
plan as a
g-range
s.
decision
future
for
guide
al
function

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

129

Treasurer's Report
by Henry P. Wilkins, Treasurer

Each and every year for nearly a century, Californ ia Masons have been
asked to aid and support the Masonic Homes of California. You have never
failed in your obligation to the thousands of Masons. widows and orphans
who have enjoyed the benefits of your largesse.
As we head into the 21st Century, the needs of our Homes grows ever
larger. The average age of our Fraternity is mute evidence of this
phenomenon. The sheer costs of maintaining our properties is elephantine.
The ravages of inflation have been particularly hard on maintaining our
Homes.
Fiscal prudence has become the touchstone of the Masonic Homes
the
Board of Trustees. The dedication of the Board Members to maintaining
rs
finest adult and children 's Homes possible, is without peer. The membe
talents
al
individu
their
upon
drawing
ally
continu
are
s
Trustee
of the Board of
in the eternal search for those standards of excellence to which the Masons
of California are accustomed.
It has been a distinct pleasure for the Grand Treasurer. in unity with the
Board of Trustees of the Homes and the entire membership of this jurisdiction, to carry out our solemn obligation to those whom we have given our
pledge -- to care for those in need.
What better evidence to our commitment is there than our two beautiful
the
Homes in Union City and Covina. Your financial provision through
h
Althoug
Masonic Homes Endowment Board is an absolute necessity.
it
bequests, gifts, trusts. etc. , continue to flow to the benefit of our Homes.
,
Fund
is the yearly support of the Masons of California to the Endowment
with
that will provide the Masons, widows and orphans of the 21st Century
what we have come to expect during this past century.
Publicity Committee Report
by Ver/ Lobb, Chairman

The Publicity Committee of the Board of Trustees during the past year
has completed numerous articles for the California Freemason. The purpose of these articles is to keep the Fraternity informed of the good work
they are doing through their support of the Masonic Homes. These articles
contain personal stories of Brothers, wives, widows and children who have
had their lives changed and improved by living in the Masonic Homes.

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
The Publicity Comm ittee co

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

131

.

of
~ustees. Th.ese following Truste;:~:~ t~t t.hree .members of thetheBoard
articles

at were to inform the Craft of the I e mte~1ews and wrote
: lo;e and app'.eciation of
~~~c~o~~s~ r~side.nts. New Trustee~aD~~V~ce~~
ar . wrote an Informative
"
rr
Torno
for
es
Servic
edical
M
.
e
im
he described th
where
ow,
h
provernent in medical care that
Union City Horne~
the
at
pla.ce
T;u~tee E.ugene Perkins wrote a biog~!~~~e~
an active resident
about
~ t e Union City Home. Trustee Perkin~c~ ~~cle he was
proud to be a
that
e
a
.s
in
ason and have a small part
this resident
and
Home
the
ing
:~:ort
~rustee Verl Lobb wrote an articl
the Covin~
at
live
le whho
"P~~ed . forFAdults. This couple desc~~~ a/i~~up
Home as
Covina
e
t
at
g
1se ound."
.
The Publicity Committee was abl
d by Administrators Boyar and
assiste
Hy
th
about
s
Rose. who wrote article
Care Insurance.
l~arren Wildm~n. Director of Ch:rit~~=s ~~d Long Term
s on Pooled
article
wrote
s,
i
com~ and Wills and Bequests. Truste
assisted the
mann
Busch
rr~n
Ceh~lda
the
Committee and wrote an article on
I ren s Home .
.
The specific Homes publicit
tfhat wer~ completed and used in
1clles
list~~~
are
the California Freemason
or your informationow
e
·
1.
"Medical Serv·ices f or TOm or row " b D v·
d
Howar
· Y r. 1ctor
"A Great Lady " by E
2.
ugene Perkins
•
"
3
No Greater Love Than This " by V I L
.
Mosaic of Memories " by .Joh Rer obb
"A
4.
n ose
·
"Mas · H
s.
.
ornc ome Resident Attends W
ashington Workshop
Foundation," by Ronald T 8
6.
"Long Term Care lnsuran~e .~~~e:n~ ~orsey Precht
7.
au oyar
"Water Seeks Its Own Level ',,
Buschmann
Warren
8.
"Paradise Found ," by V rl L' by
obb
e
.
"L'
9.
ive Action at Union Cit " b E
10.
"Lending a Hel . H y, Y ugene Perkins
prng and," by Verl Lobb
"Th I
11 .
.
" e mportance of a Will or Trust " b
• Y Warren Wildman
12.
A House is Not a Hom "
e, by Ronald T. Bunte
"The N d
13.
ee to Know," by Verl Lobb

Scholarship Committee Report

by William W. Dickson, Chairman
life.
Knowledge and understanding are keystones to a successful
asons alike
To this end, through the generosity of Masons and non-M
tion of our
educa
the
for
ished
establ
been
over many years, trust funds have
.
Covina
at
youth from the Masonic Home
and only the
These funds are both specified and non-specified as to use
our young
of
tion
educa
formal
the
ue
contin
income therefrom Is used to
l, a State
Schoo
onal
Vocati
a
e.
Colleg
Junior
people. This could be at a
study.
te
gradua
or
e
raduat
College or University in underg
assistance
Each year the students present a formal request for financial
al meetperson
a
this,
ing
Follow
ses.
expen
ted
with a breakdown of estima
their
review
and
ives
object
their
s
discus
to
ing is held with each student
loan
grant,
a
of
form
the
in
made
then
are
s
progress in prior years. Award
stancircum
ual
individ
and
level
mic
acade
the
on
or combination , depending
.
ces. The award limits currently range from $3,800 to $8,300
scholarship
This year. we approved three (3) first time applicants for
granted
total
The
.
others
(4)
four
for
rt
suppo
support and continued
g the total
amounts to $41,880 for the 1991-1992 school year, bringin
787.
$399.
to
years
n
fourtee
last
the
over
expenditure for assistance
to help
The Administrator and staff are to be commended for their efforts
Committee is a
these young people develop their potential. Work on this
most pleasurable task.
Personnel Committee Repor t
by Alvin J. Weis, Chairman

Trustees a
The Personnel Committee recommended to the Board of
given and the
merit pool for this year's salary program. Approval was
to deserving
ses
increa
pay
grant
to
ized
Administrators were author
employees.
The Masonic Homes Merit Program is based on these object

ives:

To recognize differences in individual performance .
To provide monetary rewards for outstanding performers.
To mairit~in a pay system that is both internally fair and extern
compet1t1ve.

ally

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

es experienced at ttie
The shortage of Registered and Licensed Nurs
over. A careful review
be
to
s
Union City Home during the recent years seem
rates of pay in line
our
bring
to
of our nursing wage scale was necessary
applicants to fill
fied
quali
ct
attra
with similar industry. We are now able tolicensed staff.
our
of
most
retain
and
existing openings

SUMMARY

132

priority of the Masonic
Providing quality care to our residents is a high
benefit program to
and
y
salar
a
Homes. At the same time we want to offer
The following is a
try.
indus
the
our employees that is competitive with
the year 1990-1991:
summary of personnel and compensation for

San Francisco
Covina
Union City

Full Time

Total

f;mo!QJ:'.ees

~

7
41
324
372

$199,600
886,582
6,54~,2~0

$7,629,432

rstanding cooperation
We acknowledge with genuine thanks, the unde
Warren Buschmann, Stanley
of Committee Members Warren Blomseth,
ators
ard, Veri Lobb, and the assistance by Administr
Cazneaux, Victor HowRose
.
John
and
r
Boya
Paul
Polic y Report
by Warren T. Buschmann, Chairman

y Manual to be used as a
Each Homes Trustee is furnished with a Polic
d and previous Boards.
Boar
continual reminder of policies adopted by this
mstances dictate. A
circu
and
Policies undergo constant change as time
h have been properly
whic
year
number of changes have occurred during the
applicants for the
ing
allow
of
recorded. One of particular note was that
meeting previous
ne
anyo
be
to
Children's section of the Covina Home
will be required.
ip
onsh
relati
requirements as before but now no Masonic
iction.
jurisd
the
in
e
Lodg
The applicant must still be sponsored by a
readable and therefore
To make the Policy Manual more concise and
to rewrite the Manual.
ram
a prog
more useful, the Committee is emba rked on
statement of the
clear
a
being
The rewrite will create two Manuals with one
in implementing
used
be
to
the other being that of the procedure
y and
polic
y.
polic
the

133

Homes of Califorof the Masonic
untiring efforts in the
their
for
rd
teBes
Tredus
~f
d
Boar
the
of
ident
t
Pres
As
oa
th k a very ded1cat
on
no.
e.
peop
many
thank
I
tion,
addi
1
n
. .. .
nia, I wish to ~n
ible
poss
it
make
d
helpe
have
that
fulfillment of their respon~1bllrt1es. 1_
nic family who
suppo~1ng Com71~::;,,bers of our Maso
d, but on
.
the Boar'de
the best possible care o
social, physical or for security.
rov1
to
ne ed . be it financial,
1n
arep_
d Master
their appreciation to Gran
support.
nued
conti
and
rship
1:~de
p;:s
x
~e~s
Trus~
of
The Board
Ronald A. Sherod for his e tea
the footsteps of Past
r r has followed in of
area financial planning,
t
ortan
im
,
~
u
Trea~
d
Gran
ns,
Wilki
P.
y
Henr
funds.
Grand Treasurer, Ralph H. Head, int e tpof
n
geme
mana
and
s
accounting procedure
to keep close watch
the Board continues
to the operation of the
Varnum Paul, legal counsel to . . e;sential
rs.
where leg~I adv1cetesis and legal real estate matte
in the many areas
esta
with
ved
invol
also
Homes. He is
, continues to give
tees Alvin J. Weis
n the Personnel, Admissions and
us
ofh~r
of the Board rs
Vice President
luable assistance and leade tp o
Planning Committees of the Board.

~~nancial

spite
en J. Blomseth, inng
en Doan and Warrive
Line, and servi on
of the Elect
Stanley M. Cazf)eaux , R. Steph b
within the
as mem erhs 'tated to do their share
of their heavy assignmentshave
d. t'
.
est
r
neve
. C m'1ttee
by their de 1ca ion,
hed
enric
been
has
·
om
t1~eschedules. !he Board
the Execu
of their
limits
diverse talents and experience.
e, with
Ph sical Facilities Comdmitte
.
s to spen countless
William W. Dickson, Chai~m~n oft~~ e ycontinue
making recommendations to
the capable assistance of his o~mi end
efficiently. Brother Dickson
hours in reviewing proposed projects a ting
e at Covina.
maintain the facili ties at Sbo~h IHo~ieps;~:~itte
is also Chairman of the c oars
the membership
rnue s to keep
. .
articles in the California
Publicity, con' t'
Verl Lobb Chairman of
a 1ve our Homes. Brother Lobb
fng and inform
. t
'
of
.
.
e
informed through in eres 'ation
F'
and serv1ces
b ut the oper
s on the mane ,
serve
and
e
mitte
C
.
.
o
a
n, an of the Adm1ss~ons om
maso
Free
hairm
is co-C
Policy and Real Estate Committees.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~~gene R. Perkins applies his talents to the Admissions, Real Estate and
Publicity Committees.

Nurys Erazo, Manager of Accounting, with the help of her acc?unti~g
t ff in the office of Grand Lodge. has provided timely and accurate financial

134

Ger~l~.R . Sharer. C.h~irman of the Real Estate Committee. has the great

respons1b1hty o~ supervising the care and disposal of assets received by the
Homes from wills, bequests and from residents moving into the Homes.
B~other Sharer also serves on the Admissions and Physical Facilities
Committees.

135

~e~orts for the guidance of our Homes Administrators and members of the
Board of Trustees.
Irene Harrigan and Joel H. Springer, Ill in the Grand Lodge ?tfice, work
with the Real Estate Committee in the transfer of property and with attorney
Varnum Paul on Estates and other legal matters.

Ralph H. Head, Editor of the California Freemason, has always been
most cooperative in assisting in publicizing our Masonic Homes.

Hambleton F. Leas continues to give most valued assistance as a Real
Estate representative for the Real Estate Committee.

Jack R.. Vickers, Chairman of the Scholarship and Policy Committees.
and co-Chairman of the Admissions Committee. and member of the Finance
~ommittee. submitted his resignation from the Board in March 1991
. He
cit~ "pe~sonal reasons" for his resignation which was accepted with
regrets.
D~nng his tenure , he had served on nearly every Committee of
the Board .
His valued experience and untiring efforts were greatly appreciated by all
who had served with Brother Vickers.

Chester R. MacPhee . P.G.M .. continues to handle .appeals on Real
Estate Tax matters relating to Masonic Homes property with great success.

The Grand Master appointed Ernest A. Pooleon to serve the balance of
Brother Vickers un-expired term.
. Warren T. Buschmann completed his first year on the Board and has ·
gamed much valuable experience. He is Chairman of the Policy Committee
and member of the Physical Facilities. Admissions. Scholarship and Personnel Committees.
~ictor Howard completed his first year on the Board , having
been
appointed by the Grand Master to fill the un-expired term of Warren Blomseth, who serves on the Board ex-officio by virtue of being Junior Grand
Warden. Brother Howard served on the Admissions, Publicity and Personnel Committees.

~obert A. Klinger, Grand Secretary, has given another year of exempla
ry
servi~e to the Trustees. His reporting of the minutes is accurate
, complete

and t1melX. He has completed eleven years in this office and his year has
be~n assisted by John Cooper, Executive Assistant, in preparation
for his
retirement in October. We wish for Bob and Marilyn a very happy retirement.

sue Dean and Kitty Teel are Homes Representa~ives who intervie~
applicants for admission and prepare detailed information for the Trustees
consideration .
Kira Reginato and Karla Griffin maintain co.ntacts for. those refer~~ to
Masonic Homes Outreach Services or Non~es1de~t Assistance. This is a
continuous program with members and widows. 1n need of health care
facilities or supplemental financial assistance outside the Homes .

.

Warren W. Wildman. Director of Charitable Gifts since M~r~h 1.9~. has
travelled many miles and met with membe~s intere~ted in parti~ipating in the
Pooled Income Fund or getting information relat1v.e to i:naking B~que~ts ,
Wills or Trusts to the Masonic Homes. He has assisted m converting gifts
of all descriptions from generous donors to the Masonic Homes. He has
now chosen to retire. Happy reti rement to Warren and Barbara.
Thanks to Administrator Paul Boyar and his dedicated s~aff fo.r providing
love. understanding, care and security for our adults at Union City.
Thanks and special commendation to John A. ~ose f~r completion ~f
10 years of service as Administrator at the H?me m Co~1na. And to his
dedicated staff for their loving care. understanding and patience for both the
children and adult residents.
The Board acknowledges with sincere appreciation the .dedicatio~ of
the members of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board for their outstanding
fund raising efforts.

137

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NIA
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR

Finally, the Trustees pay the h"
co~Ii~:~tc~'.bute to the Masons of California
for their generous support and

ng process. To
the day to day decision-maki
some degree of harmony in
monthly with
et
d five committees which me
this end we have establishe
Council and
ily
three Resident Councils, a Fam
administration. They include
involved in
ties
par
. By keeping all interested
Employee Liaison Committee
rovements
imp
our
we wer e able to implement
the decision-making process
with a minimal of resistance.
lemented,
ied and diverse programs imp
This year saw many more var
including :
a second
Services function by adding
The expansion of our Social
r. This
rke
Wo
ial
Soc
o is a Licensed Clinical
Masters level Social Worker wh
newly
all
g
ntin
orie
ed the responsibility of
department has also assum
first three days.
arriving residents during their
the Skilled
tive Nurses Assistants within
The addition of three Restora
ts.
iden
res
ction is to ambulate
Nursing unit, whose primary fun
y we have
"untying the elderly ," whereb
Committing to the concept of
.
unit
nts used in the Skilled
reduced the number of restrai

136

Respectfully submitted

t
Roy J: Henville, P.G.M., Pre~iden
·
AJvrn J weis,
ent
ice Presid
·
Warren J. Blomseth
Victor Howard
Warren T. Buschmann
Ver1 Lobb
Stanley M. Cazneaux
Perkins
A.
ene
Eug
William W. Dickson
leon
Poo
A
est
Ern
A. Stephen Doan
Gerald A. Sharer

v.·

RATOR
REPORT OF THE ADMINIST
Y
MASONIC HOME, UNION CIT
199 0-1 991
At the beginning of this past
me rather
Y;:~:~ge v.:as th~ rule at the Ho
than the exception . Dur ing this
nsition "
'tra
and t eff~x1sted in an era of
Our~ask was to assist the residents
s and
tem
sys
t whil : ~ . rn lett ing go of the
old
the
sen.:-1ces and identity of the pas
from
t
rien
start re e . eedprng them re-o
reality. to a new one . This. new
developing n ew competencies
r
qur
.
establishing un·ique relationships and be
novei
,. .
coming comfortable with our
had
all
We
s.
ure
ced
pro
and
po rc1es
with
e
anc
ord
acc
Bei ng re~~:~~rn to think in
new purposes and prio ritie s.
.. .
As the year passed ·t1 b ecame clear to all of u h
at the lettrng go stage"
st
had ended
b
ha
t
wha
for
ing
urn
over
and the mo
.
Th
. s een perceived as lost is
wel
and
s
e resrdents and staff are now
vice
ser
ed
anc
enh
vi comrng the new
programs with enthusiasm and gor.
d
One concept which helped pro
the emuce a smooth transition was
·1
fam
nt
powerment of various reside
the
with
ups
gro
rk
wo
,;,end:: and ~mployee
Th
tasl< of. reviewing and recom
s
nge
cha
tem
sys
0 g ~ol1~y and
.e
.
M.asonrc Ho me is a Hu ma n rganrzat1on . As Ma son s
har
wes
w1ves/widows
=~
~~ ~ h
~i cha~acteristics. What sets our H~per
from .other health careeo~~~:~
al
with
l
dea
mso;si~~~h.~ fact that welong period ofso~
e,
tim
physical and emotional proble
a
r
ivr uals ove
·
. .
The issues of a human
the de ree
e organrzatron depend upon
cooperation and shared valu
ary ~roup~f
prim
s
ion
zat
th.e organi
ng
t~o
,sa
go:
"
me
"Ho
the
h
plis
om
acc
To
ether with
ese prrmary groups work tog

us to staff
e physician which now allows
The hiring of a second full tim
five days a week.
the Skilled unit and the Clinic
a medical
next to our medical clinic into
We have remodeled a room
assigned days
now come to the Home on
ists
cial
Spe
e.
suit
lity
cia
spe
se services.
nvenience of going out for the
inco
the
of
ts
iden
res
the
g
evin
reli
st, Optician,
a Podiatrist. Dentist. Optometri
site
ones
vid
pro
now
e
Hom
The
Audiologist and Cardiologist.
headed by
rganized into one department
The activity function was reo
ed including a
additional positions were add
a Recreation Therapist. Two
full time ceramic instructor.
riors of
Executive Housekeeper the inte
Under the watchful eye of our
prints. Antique
e with beautiful paintings and
aliv
e
com
e
hav
gs
ldin
bui
the
in every nook
and parlors , with display cases
furniture grace our hallways
n't been to the
es of years past. If one has
and cranny exhibiting treasur
.
are not to be missed
Home recently these exhibits
dro ppe d
remain beautiful. the Home has
In order to allow our ladies to
e full time
vices and replaced it with thre
our contract beauty parlor ser
mes'" employees.
licensed operators wh o are "Ho

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The "Quake," while inflicting
very min or damage, got our
attention
relative to our disaster preparedn
ess and how it related to our ma
intenance
function. A tho rou gh review of
all internal mechanical system
s revealed the
need for a more comprehensive
pro-active maintenance plan and
program.
The sco pe of this pro ject was
so overwhelming that the Adm
inis
trat
ive staff
felt that a consultant was nee
ded. After an extensive search,
the Home
chose the Marriott Corporatio
n to manage our Maintenance
and Grounds
Departments. Marriott brings
to the Home an interesting blen
d
of hotel and
hospital contract maintenance
experience. In the few months
tha
t they have
been here, we have inventoried
each and every piece of equipm
ent and
developed over 600 preventive
maintenance tasks which are
now
tracked
by Marriott's "CAAMP" com put
er system . The early reviews of
the
ir
performance has exceeded our expecta
tions. You can see this past yea
r
has
been
very bus y. My stated goal to
the Trustees was to help structur
e the Home
to be the best in California; the
ir retort was they wanted it to
be the best in
the nation . As you can see, we
are well on our way to becom
ing number
one .

MA SO NIC HO ME FOR ADULTS

AT UNION CITY

ANNUAL REPORT

TO~~,~~ ;oH~ 9:i~CAL YEAR

JUL Y 1, 199 0
POPULATION CHANGES 0

Tot als
364
+50
-66

Population July 1. 1989
Admissions
Deceased
Withdrawn
.
Residents Moved to Covina

-00

:O.Q.
348

POPULATION AS OF JUNE 30,
Respectfully submitted,
Paul M. Boyar, Administrator

139

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORN
IA

Age Gro ups
60-69 Years
70-79 Years
80-89 Years
90. 99 Years
100 and Over •
TO TAL RESIDENTS

Me n
0
10

60
23
0
93

Ave rag e Age
85.0Years
84.5Years
88.0Years
oo.oYears
QQ.OYear.s.
86.0Years

199 0
wo me n
0
22
145
83
5
255

Tot al
0
32
205

106
5
348

1990 - JUN E 30, 1991 (28)
WOMEN ADMITTED JULY 1,
AV ER AG EA GE 85Y EA RS

+ Indi cate s Cou ple
· .
•• Tran sferred from Co v1na

NAM E
Albe rtso n, Viol a +
And erso n. Lou ise

0 - JUN E 30
MEN ADMITTED JUL Y 1, 199
1991 (22)
'
AVERAGE AGE 84 YEARS
NAM E
Albe rtso n . Roy +

ADM ITTE D
. . 12/2 7/ 90

Bec htel , Erne st +
Burc hina l, Lesl ie

. . . . 8/ 14/9 0
.. . .. 5/6/ 91

Dab ney, Rich ard

• 1/ 24/9 0

Eric kson , Gus tav

12/12/90

LOD GE
Rive rban k

NO.

Wes tchester Unit ed
Braw ley . .. . . .

. 572
. 402

PJaya Del Rey
Braw ley .. •

7/30(90

. 366

Fres no .

Fike , Opa l . . • .

Las Palm as

86

. 100
91

Pho enix . .
San ta Cruz
Azu re .. • .
San Fran cisc o

• 178

82
79
83

• 139

San Bern ardi no
San ta Cruz
Ana heim . • .
San Fran cisc o

La Fay ette

. . . • •• 126

Kern ville

Eas t San Dieg o

.. . 561

San Dieg o

May nard . Mar vin
. 2/26 /91
McC ullu m, Manley~ ~; . . 2/25/9 1
Mor ton, Oliv er + . . . . 10/11 /90

Mos iac . . . . . . . . 218
. . . . 272
Pas ade na
San Jose . . . . . . . . 10

Live rmo re
Pas ade na
San Jose

Norb ert, Will iam +

. . . . 7/ 18/ 90

Mission

San Fran cisc o . . 87

Phil lips, Rob ert +

. . . . 1/31 / 91

5

Mar ipos a

. .. . . .. 169
• . . . . . . .24

Oak land Dur ant

. .. 188

.. 38

. 533

n

Keit h
Tab le Mou ntain
San Fran cisc o

. 187
. 124
. 139

Gilro y . . . .
Para dise . . .
San Fran cisc o

88

. 6/ 19/91
. 4/ 23/91
• 6/ 24/91

. . 13

McC oy, Flora . . . .
Mor ton. Pau line + • .

. 6/ 12/91
10/ 11 /90

272
. 191
• . 10

Pas ade na
Mar in
San Jose

81
93
82

85

Nev ada . . .
Pas ade na
Con solid ated
Marin . .
San Jose

82

. 9/ 11 /90
. 2/25 /91

Nev ada

Mar tin, lam a
McC allu m, Cha rlott e +

Nor bert , Ethe l +

. 7/ 18(9 0

Miss ion

. 169

San Fran cisc o

85

72

Phil lips, Elea nor +
Pou lsen . Irene

. 1/ 31 (91
11/ 30(0 0

Maripos a
McK inle y

.. 24
. 347

Mar ipos a
San Pab lo

84
87

Roth e . Mab el +
Run yan , Win nie

• 5/ 28/91
. 4/ 30/91

Oak land Dura nt
Cale don ia .. . .

. 188

Oak land
Bak ersf ield

84
87

Spin elli , Rose +
Stoc ker, Ade le
Swa yne , Fern e

. 6/ 10(91
. 8/ 21 /00
. 5/ 14(91

Geo . Washing ton
Whi ttier . . .. •
Oak land Dur ant

. 435
. 323

. 188

San Fran cisc o
Whi ttier
Oak land

83
94
00

. 11/7 /00

San ta Luci a

. 302

King City

81

Tom lin. Mild red +

Alha mbr a

. 322

85

. 9/ 19/9 0

Alha mbr a

Wea ver. Car ol . . .

84

90

Mar ipos a

82

Oak land

84

San Fran cisc o
Dinu ba . ..

85

Geo. Was hing ton .. . 435
Clar enc e Fraser . . . 294

4/24/ 91
11 {7/9 0

N. Holl ywo od
. .. 542
San ta Luci a
.. . .. 302

N .Hol lywo od
King City

87
85

Vista

Vista . . .

82

.. .. . . 687

.. 6/ 5/91
Gab erdi el , Eliz abe th +
.. . 7( 11 /00
Gep hart , Elle n +
. .. . 8/8/ 00
Grig sby , Edn a +
. 8(21 (91
tle
Myr
Gun ders on,
Han na , Mild red
Hille r, Nell ie .. .
Hum phre ys, Jan e

. . . . 6/ 10/9 1
.. . .. 2/6/91

.. . .. . 7/5/90

Pac ific Gro ve

82

Kern Rive r Vall ey . . . 8 27

Wrig ht, Joh n

Pac ific Gro ve

89

1/ 28/9 0

. 331

Chu rch, Ann

Oak land

52
San Bern ardi no
· 74
Santa Cruz
Ana heim . . : : : 83

Tay lor, Erne st
Tom lin, Lou is ~

82
78

. 188

Pho enix . . . . . . . . 178
San ta Cruz . . . .
38
Azure . . . . . . . : : 33

Spin elli , Fran cis +
Stev enso n , Fran k

Play a Del Rey
Brea . . . . •

Oak land Dur ant

Con cord . . . .. 90

Roth

. 656

11/ 5(91

. . . 756

1
e , Hen ry + ... .. . 5/ 28/9

. 572

Dun n . Nan abe lle

Clay ton Vall ey

• . . 12/6/ 90

Wes tche ster Unit ed
Citro l

85

86

84

Lun deq uist, Geo rge

. 8/ 8/00
. 3/ 29/91

88

AGE

Oak land

. . . . 4/ 17/ 91

LOC ATIO N
Rive rban k
Para dise . .

LOC ATI ON
Rive rban k

Oak land -Dur rant

Hen dry, Jos eph .

NO.
. 459
. 124

. 459

90

Gab erdi el , Gar ner +
. 6/ 5/ 91
Gep hart. Woo d row + ...
. . 7/ 11/ 90
Grig sby, Joh n +
. . . . . . 8/ 8/90

LOD GE
Rive rban k
Table Mou ntai n .•

... ..

SebastapoJ

.. . . 5/ 21 /9 1

AGE

ADM ITTE D
12/2 7/ 00
10/ 4/ 00

Bec htel . Jean +
Berr y, Rob erta

. . • 188

Fors yth , Bernhard

141

NIA
GRANO LODGE OF CALIFOR

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

140

77

. 486

81
97

142

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

WOMEN RESIDENTS (255) AVE RAG

E AGE 87

ADM In ED
10/ 19/88
12127 /90
. 10/ 4/90
. 6/ 23/87
. 7/17/ 85
. 6/ 21/89

LODG E
Franc is Drake
River bank
Table Moun tain
Los Altos
Union . ....
Fort Croo k

..

...

NO.
. 376
• 459
. 124
. 712

. .58
. 250

LOCA TION
San Franc isco
River bank
Parad ise ..
Los Altos
Sacra ment o
Fall River Mills

Bagb y, Rhesa +
. 3/19/ 85 Marip osa
•. 24 Marip osa
Bake r, Claric e •
. 10/ 3/ 86 West ern Star
.• 2
Shas ta
Bake r, D'Ore lla
. 4/2217 1 Colum bia . .
. 461
San Franc isco
Baldw in, Lela
10/ 28(73 Glend ale
. 544
Glend ale . . .
Barn ett, Kathe rine
.. 8/26/ 86 Fello wship
. 290 Los Angeles
Bech tel, Jean +•
• 8/14/ 90 West chest er Unite d
. 572 Playa Del Rey
Benn ett, Sara
11 /27(79 Holly wood
. 355 Van Nuys
Bentl ey, Henr ietta
11 / 15/88 Calis toga
. 233
' '.
Calis toga
Berco vich , Ruth +
. 10(7/ 86 Golde n Empi re
. 733
Sacra ment o
Berge r, Edna
11 /19/8 4
Clovi s
. 416 Clovi s
Berk, Sara , . . .
'''
• 8/ 18/ 86 Liber tas
.
466 Bake rsfiel d
Berry, Robe rta *
' 3/29/91
Citro I
. 656
Brea '
Berth elsen , Mary +
. 8/ 22/88 Marip osa
•. 24
Marip osa
Black mon , Mary +
. 8/ 16/ 88 Teha chap i
. 313 Teha chap i
Bosw orth, Leno re
• 4/26( 77 Live Oak
. .61
Oakla nd
Bouto n , Edna
' 9/ 18/80 Mode sto
. 675 Mode sto
Boys .Don na
10/31 /89 Gold en Rule
' 479
San Jose
Brad bury, Elean or
121'29/83 Acala nes-F ellow ship .
480 Lafay ette
Brans tatter . Louis e +
. 9/ 11/80 Redla nds . ..
.300 Redla nds
Bratt on , Marg aret ..
12/ 18/86 Table Moun tain
. 124
Parad ise
Bren nema n, Evely n +
. 8/28/ 85 Verba Buen a
. 403
San Franc isco
Brillh art, Glory
' 5/26/ 87
Alam o
'122 Conc ord
Broo ks, Ruth
. . . . . . 6/ 14(74 Altad ena Mt. Wilso
n . 678 Altad ena
Brow n. Jenn ie
• . • . . • 2127/ 86
San Jose ' • . . . • . . 10 San
Jose
Brow n, Mary
. .. 3/30/ 86 Durra nt Rock ridge
.. 188 Oakl and
Burge ss, Mildr ed
. . . ' 8/ 16/89
Frien dship . . . . . '2 10
San Jose
Busc aino, Alice
. . .. 3/ 14/ 84
Missi on . ' • . . • • . 169 San
Franc isco
Butte rfield . Nellie
. 9/ 13f79 San Lean dro-B rookl yn
225 San Lean dro
Byars , Betty .
. 5/2 1/ 85
Fresn o
. 247
Fresno

.. ..

..

...

..

...

..

. ....

..

...

....

. . ...

..

..

Chas e, Ruth •
Chee sewri ght, Sarah
Ches ter, Gera ldine
Chris tense n, Glady s
Chur ch, Ann• . .
Coffe y, Mild red ...
Coffin . Marfr eda
Cottm an. Ida Mae +
Cole, Louis e
Colev ille, Anna
Cotto m . Zoe
Crane , Rose
Cree k, Edna

12/ 15/82 Ocea nside
.. 4/ 2/87 Warre n Hard ing
. . 9/ 4/84
Alam o • . . .
.. 1/2/86
Castro Valley
. 1/28/ 91
Pacif ic Grove
. 7/ 15/81
Amity ' ..
. 5/27/ 86 Mosa ic ...
. 2111 / 88 Taft-M idway
. 3/25/ 85 Geo. Wash ingto n
. 8/ '29/80 Laure l . . ... .
. 7/22/ 82 Magn olia . ...
12/10 /86 Orind a-Ply mout h
t0/ 20/89
Sacra ment o

• 381
. 579
' 122
• 713
. 331
. 370
. 218
. 426
. 435
. 245
. 242
. 521
. .40

Ocea nside
Sacra ment o
Lafay ette
Castr o Valley
Pacif ic Grove
San Franc isco
Liver more . .
Taft
San Franc isco
Willo ws
Santa Barba ra
Orind a . . .
Sacra ment o

143

ADM lnED
. . . . 4/ 27/ 89
• . . . 9/ 27/88
.. .. 1/14/ 87

NO.
LODG E
. 139
San Franc isco
.. 3
Teha ma . . • ·
Geo. Wash ingto n . .. 435

LOCA TION
AGE
San Franc isco
82
Sacra ment o .
89
San Franc isco . . 95

Danie l, Josep hine
· • 4/ 22/86
Daup hine , Eva
· · 6113185
251
Dawk ins, Lilly · ·
· · 51 82
oaCa teau, Char lotte . .. 5/3t /89
Delav an, Berni ce · · · · · 6/ 1?/8 2
Delk Gene vieve . • · · 121 15187
Dell 'Vida . . . . . . . . . 3/24/ 88
Del~n . Nora . . . . . . . . 1016/77
[)el Ponte , Valer ie · · · · · 5115172
De Riem er, Theo ne · · · · 2129/ 88
Disgr azzi, Mary · · · · · · 1111 189
Dorm an, Maria n . · · · · 2/ 25185
[)unla p, Lydia .
·
· 3 16190
Dunn , Nann abell e •
· · · 1 l /5/90

Golde n Empi re . · · · 733
South West . . · · • · 283
Althe ns . . . · · • · · 228
Acorn . . . · · · · · · 494
Teha ma . . . · · · · · · 3
Yuca ipa Valley • · · · 726
Big Bear .. · · · · · 6 17
la Parta it-Uni on · · · .17
San Lucia . . · · · · · 302
Rose ville . . · · • · · 2 22
Golde n Gate Spera nza .30
Penta lpha . . · · · · · 202
Magn olia . . • ·
· 2 42
Oakla nd Durra nt
· 188

Sacra ment o .. · 87
91
National City
89
Davis
85
Oakla nd ..
82
Sacra ment o
85
Yucaipa . .
Big Bear Lake • · 90
San Franc isco . · 89
82
King City
Roseville . . · · • 79
San Franc isco . · 83
Los Ange les . . · 84
Santa Barba r a . . 81
82
Oakla nd

Edwa rds. Jean · ·
Emer son , Susa nnah

11 29182
1
. . 12/ 15/83
3 24183
Ernest, Eula .. · · ·
· '

Palo Alto
· · · 3 46
San Francisco
· · 139
Yuca ipa . . . · · · · · 726

82
Palo Alto
San Franc isco .• 97
79
Yuca ipa

10/ 21/87
Falke nstein . Madg e
12/ 29/ 87
Fawc ett , Myrtle • ·
12/ 13182
Ferrara . Evelyn +
Fike , Opal . . • · . . ' .• 7/30/ 90
Flack us , Fannie . . . . . . 2/ 14/80
Fraser . Marg aret . . . • . 5/ 10/89
Fritzl er , Lois . · · '. · · · . 7/23/ 87

Table Moun tain · · · · 124
Geo. Wash ingto n . · · 435
Burb ank
. . · · · · · 406
Las Palm as . . · · • · 366
Sequ oia-S t.Elm o
· • 349
Geo . Wash ingto n
. 435
Apoll o-Woodsto ck . . 396

90
Paradise
San Franc isco . · 94
78
Burba nk
Fresn o .• · · · · 86
Oakla nd . . · · • 96
San Franc isco . · 85
78
Alam eda . . · ·

Gabe rdiel , Ehza beth + • · · 6/ 5191
Gagg s, Marg arite . · · · · 2/t0/ 8 2
Garfi as, Lillian + · · · · · 7' 28187
Gent ry. Ethel . . . . . . 11/ 30/82
Geph art, Ellen +• · · · · · 7111190
Gerva is, Leon a · · · · · · 6 121 188
Gilbe rt . Blanc he · · · · • 9/ 25184
Gilbe rt. Mayb elle · · · · · 5115186
Gilbe rt, Myrtl e . · · · · · · 9112186
Gran t, Garm en . . . . . 11/ 15/89
Grigs by. Edna * · · · · · · 818190
Groo m. Lilly . · · · · · · 11124 1:
Gros s, Glad ys · · · · · · · · 3181
Grue ning, Marg aret . . . . 7/23/ 87
Gund erson . Myrtl e ·
· 8121191
Gutch er . Marie · · · · · · 1217 182

Phoe nix . . . · · · · · 178
Lomp oc
. · · · · · 262
Temp le
· · · · · · · 14
Brent wood . · • · · · 3 45
Santa Cruz . · · · · · .38
Texa s . .• · · · · · · .4 6
Fidel ity • . • · · · · · 120
Frem ont • · · · · · · 49 7
Frate rnity . . · · · · · 399
Santa Cruz . · • · • · .38
Azure . . . . . . . . . 533
Footh ill . . . · · · · · 56 4
San Lean dro-B rookl yn 225
Gold en Gavel · · · · 445
San Franc isco
· 139
. 231
Cove lo

San Bern adino
82
94
Lomp oc .
98
Sono ma ..
95
Brent wood
79
Santa Cruz
San Juan Bauti sta 87
San Franc isco . · 84
85
Oakla nd . .
94
San Jose
80
Santa Cruz
Anah eim . • . · · 83
Hayw ard .. · · · 88
San Lean dro
89
Los Ange les . · · 78
San Franc isco .
97
Cove lo . .
85

Haas , Vivian • . .
11 /28189
Hann a. Mildr ed*
· 6119190
Hans en, Alice +
· 6115189
Hard ing, Lulu · · · · · · • 6124170
Harm on. Julia · · · · · · 3 /'29/ 78
Hasti ngs, Alice · · · · · · 2' 16f7 3

Mt. Shasta
Keith
Orlan d
Stock ton
Berke ley
Mont e Vista

. . . . 281
. . . • 187
. . . . 265
. 598

86
Ande rsen
88
Gilro y .•
83
Orlan d .
Stock ton . · . . . 101
Berke ley .. , I
91
Long Beac h • .. 88

NAM E
Crisp in, Marg aret
cro><en . Kathe rine
Cum ming s. Althe a

JUL Y 1, 1990 - JUN E 30, 1991
NAM E
Almq uist, Marth a
Alber tson , Viola + •
Ande rson , Louis e •
Apca r, Araxe
Apple scow , Elean or
Arjo . Anita . . . .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AGE
88
88
85
90
88
82
87
88
86
91
85
80
78
88
80
88
91
78
90

77
95
93
91
76
76
84
84
86
87
85
86
88
87
93
74
87

83
89
89
89
88
87
87
84
91
82
86
90

. 363
. 655

144

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NAME

ADMIT IED

LODGE

Head, Maria
Herma ns, Ada
Hiller, Nellie •
Hodso n, Jewell
Hogan , Violette
Holgar d, Doroth y
Hollen, Ruby +
Holm, Leta
Holton , Christin e
Hopkin s, Louise
Howde shell, Mary
Howell , Charol otte
Howell , Frieda
Humph reys, Jane •

NO.

LOCATION

.. • 5/ 31/78
. . 2f7!63
. 4/ 23/ 90
• 1/29/87
.• 7/ 3/86
. 8/10/87
• 5/ 17/ 00
12/29/8 6
7/25/ 85
. 1/7/88
10/8/85

. 511
. 328
. 124

10/ 12/ 8g
. 6/ 24/91

Sunnyv ale
Redon do
Table Mounta in
Harbor
San Francis co
San Lorenz o Valley
Hiram . . . . . .
Pinole- Carquin ez
Castro Valley
Silver Gate
Hollyw ood
Los Altos
Brawle y . .
San Francis co

. 712
. 402
. 139

Sunnyv ale
Redon do
Paradis e
Richmo nd
San Francis co
Felton
Eldorad o
Hercule s
Castro Valley
San Diego
Hollyw ood
Los Altos
Brawle y . .
San Francis co

Ireland , Lillian . .

. 8/ 10/61

Parnas sus-Pre sidio

. 388

San Francis co

96

Jackso n, Thyra +
Jensen , Jacque tta
Jessup , Marie . .. .
Johnso n, Anna + ..
Johnso n, Mary
Jones, Ann+
Jones, Lucille
Josse, Irene

' 8/12/86
. . 1/ 9/86
10/19/7 8
. . 9/9/81
.. 4/ 19/82
. 7/ 12/89
. 3/ 14/ 83
' 7/30/ 88

Table Mounta in
Curtis . . .
Santa Ynez
Lodi . . . . .
Verba Buena
Oxnard . . .
Palo Alto
George Washin gton

. 124
.140
. 701

Paradis e , .
Cloverd ale .
Solvan g
Lodi . .
Oaklan d
Oxnard
Palo Alto
San Francis co

84

Kaufm an, Florenc e
Kayser , Jean . . .
Keasle r, Lena
Keely, Frances
Keller, Esther

. 2/17/ 88
. 6/ 20/00
. 1/ 16/ 00
. 2/ 29/ 88
. 5/ 21/ 68

Ketcha m, Lillie
Kingsb ury, Pearl
Knapp .Edna

. 1/ 25/85
10/28/ 87
. 3/ 25/81

Ladd, Lillian .
Lamb, Myrtle
Lamph ier, Claire
Lane , Edith . . .
LaTrac e, Martha
Lawler, Betty ..
Lee, Myrtle . . . . . .
Lohme yer, Doroth y +
Longat ti, Viola
Love , Verna

. 217187

. . 1/5/ 82

.. 212/87
12/18/8 7
12/16/6 9
. 4/26/ 89
. B/ 29/89
11/21/7 7
. 11/9/ 81
12/18/8 4
. 2/26/86

Mabry, Estelle
. . 1/6/78
Magill, Helen
. . . . . 8/ 19/85
Marsha ll, Irene
. . . • 12/ 19/ 88
Martin, Florenc e
. 4/30/ 84
Matthe ws, Helen . . . . . 12/8/ 89
McCul lum, Charlo tte •• . 2/25/91
McCoy, Flora * . . . . . . 6/ 12/91

Lebano n-Pacif ic
Sunnyv ale
Rialto . . . . .
Crocke r • . . .
Le Progre ss de
L'Ocea nic
Silver Gate
Santa Rosa
Liberal Ms
Friends hip
Harmo ny
Tehach api
Mill Valley
Berkele y
La Jolla
Standa rd
Occide ntial-C alif
Lassen
Los Altos
Oceanside
Rio Hondo
Service
Fremon t
Soquel
Pasade na
Marin ..

. 501
• 139
. 718
. . 43
. 337
. 713
. 296

. 355

. 256
. 403
. 341
. 346
. 435

. 136
. 511

. 582
. 454
371

. 296
.. 57
. 677
. 210

. 164
• 313
. 356

, 363
. 518
. 440

. . 1
. 149
. 712

. 381
. 800
. 594
. 497
• 746
• 272
. 191

San Francis co
Sunnyv ale
Rialto
Daly City
Honolu lu
San Diego
Santa Rosa
Los Angele s
San Jose
Sierra City
Tehach api
Mill Valley
Berkele y . .
La Jolla
San Lorenz o .
San Francis co
Susanville
Los Altos
Oceanside
El Monte
Long Beach
Oaklan d
Soquel ..
Pasade na
Marin

ADMIT IED

AGE

NAME

95
.102
81
86
92

.. 1/31 / 89
McDon ald, Eudora +
10/10/ 89
McKen zie, Anna
1/ 19/ 81
McPhe rson, Edylh
. 11/8/82
Miller, Helen
. 5124/ 85
Miller, Jessie . . .
· 2128183
Miller, Rebecc a . .
Miller, Wanda . . . . . . . 3/ 17/ 86
.. 6/21 / 88
Misere z, Christine
Monroe , Helen + .. ... . 2/2/ 89
.. . 5/9/ 89
Morten sen . Gladys +
Morton , Pauline + * . . 10/11/ 00
· · · 8/l0/ 8l
.
Mullins , Amy
Murph y, Helene . . . . . . 8/26/80

84
85
86
91

86
82
76
91
97

76
91
87
81
76
91
91
87
91

86
94
97
78

86
87
85
91
84
95
81
87
95

86
97
91
92
86
91
92
84
82

94

LODGE

NO.

. 396
Apollo Woods tock
• 287
Winned umah
Live Oak . . . . . . . .61
. 243
Eucalp tus
Alisal . . . . . • - · · 32 1
Fellows hip . . . . .. 290
Maripo sa .. . . . · · .24
. . 494
Acorn . .
· .10
San Jose
. . 282
Callayo m i
· • .10
San Jose
. 687
Vista
. . 780
Riviera

145

LOCATION

AGE

86
Alamed a
95
Bishop
93
Oaklan d
95
Haywa rd
98
Pleasa nton
88
Los Angele s
88
Los Angele s
82
Oaklan d
81
San Jose
91
Midd leton
82
San Jose
Vista . . . . . · · 93
Pacific Palisad es 84
Sacram ento
San Diego . .
San Francis co

90

Caledo nia . . . . . · · 486
Golden Empire . . . . 733
• 243
Eucaly ptus
Willow Glen . . . . • . 676

Bakers field
Sacram ento
Haywa rd
San Jose

87
91
85
80

. 5/ 24/84
Packar d, Rose
. 5/ 17/88
Palmer , Margar et
. 4/30/89
Papke, Eva . · ·
. 10/7/87
Pardee , Martha ..
. . . . 5/29/ 81
Parker, Mildred +
Parson s, Florenc e . . . . 12/4/85
Parson s, Irma . . . . : . . . 5/5/ 87
. . . . . 9/2/86
Perry, Fern
. . . 1/31/ 91
Phillips , Eleano r +
12/14/ 87
Phillips , Leona * +
. . . 8/28/81
Pocock , Vivian +
11/30/ 90
Pou lsen , Irene • .
. 6/12/67
Prestid ge, Cora
. 1/ 4/ 89
Preston , Alice
. 7/31 / 89
Purnell , Elsie

. 292
Los Gatos . . .
· 506
Mount Olive
· 408
Alta Mt. Sierra
Alcatra z . . . . . · • · 244
San Leandro-Broo klyn 225
Amity . . . . . . . . . 370
Gn.Gate Speran za .. .30
Galt . . . . . . . • . . 267
. . 24
Maripo sa • .
. 187
Keith
.. 262
Lompo c .. .
.. 347
McKinl ey . . . .
. 128
Visalia . . . .
. 693
Palm Springs
. 327
Long Beach

93
Los Gatos
82
Los Angele s
79
Sierra Madre
91
Oaklan d . . .
86
San Leandr o
91
San Francis co
87
San Francis co
90
Galt . . . . . ·
85
Ma riposa
81
Gilroy . . . ·
90
Lompo c . . . .
San Pablo . . . . 88
Visalia . . . .. . 99
Palm Springs . . 78
86
Long Beach . •

Ratchf ord, Sadie . . . · · 6/22/ 88
7
Reed , Hazel . . . · · · · 5/2 7/8
10/13/ 82
Rice, Helen
Roblin , Olive + . . . · · · 10/6/ 8 7
Rosen blum , Bernice · · · 7/1 7/ 85
Rothe, Mabel • + . · · · · 5/2 8/9l
. · · · · 8/3 1184
Rule , Jeanet te
Runyu n, Winnie • . . · · · 4/30/ 9l

. 683
Redwo od Empire
. 376
Francis Drake . .
. 521
Orinda
. . . 687
Vista
. . 134
Vacavi lle
Oaklan d Du rant . . . 188
. 273
Anchor
. . . 486
Caledo nia ..

83
Garber ville . . •
95
San Francis co
Orinda . . . . · · 87
90
Vista . .
85
Vacavil le
85
Oaklan d
83
Anahei m
88
Bakersfield

· 8/23/ 87
Salter, Cather ine
· 11/ l / 89
Sander s, Kathryn
· 10/ 7/ 82
Sarbo, Elizabe th
Schran k, Freda . .. • · · 6/30/ 89
. · · 8/ 24/ 89
Sermu ks, Eunice +
Sharp, Theres a . . · · · · · 5/7/ 8 4

. 621
The Garden s
. 290
Fellows hip
• 745
Penins ula .. .
San Francis co . .. . 139
. 615
Hemet
Modesto . . • . . . . 675

87
Monteb ello
94
Los Angele s
86
Belmon t . .
82
San Francis co
80
Hemet
Modes to . . . . . 83

Nelson , Ethel +
Newma n, Blanch e
Norber t, Et hel + *

. . . • . 5/ 6/87
• 11 /5/75
. • . . 7/ 18/90

Olsen, Melind a
Olsen , Hilda +
Oman , Marian ne
Ottewe ll, Leonor a

.. 3/ 13/87
. 6/30/81
. . 3/7/85
10/ 18/90

Teham a
Norma l Height s
Mission . . . . .

. . 3
. 632
. 169

87
85

146

NAM E
Sher man , Vera
Shie lds, Lillia n
Sims . Matt ie
Sobe y, Mildr ed
Som es, Marg aret +
Spin elli, Ros e*+
Squi res, Lois
Stath os, Ida . . .
Sted man , Lena
Stoc ker, Adel ia *
Strau ghan , Dassie
Street, Clara +
Swan k. Blan che
Swa yne. Fern e •
Terr y, Kath erine .
Thol ke , Della . .
Thom pson , lone +
Thom pson , Lois
Thom pson , Rose
Thom pson , Wini fred
Thur ston , Hele n
Thur ston , Mari e
Tipp en , Thel ma
Tobi as . Tarlo n
Tom lin , Mildr ed + *
Tom pkin s, Lean nah
Tripl ett, Ruth ..
Turn ey, Doro thea

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ADMITTED

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LODGE

. 1/2 1(76 Colu mbia
. 4/ 30(7 9 Metr opol itan
. 3/2 1/84
Ente rpris e
. 9/ 10/86 Alam o . . . .
. 3/17 /87 Gree nleaf ..
. 6/ 10/90 Geo. Was hing ton
. 7/ 14/87 Berk eley
. 11/ 9/89 Jewe l City
10/ 11/83 Need les .
. 8/ 21 /90 Whit tier .•
. 219/83 Arca ta . . .
. 1/ 17/80 San Fran cisco
Educator
8/ 24/8 8 Geor ge E. Tutt
5/14 /91
Oakl and- Dura nt

NO.
. 461
. 352
..70
. 122
. 670
. 435

. 363
. 368
• 326
. 323

.106
166
. 722
. 188

LOCATION

AGE

San Fran cisco
Los Angeles
Yuba City
Alam o . . .
Whit tier
San Fran cisco
Berk eley
Glen dale
Need les
Whit tier
Arca ta

92
84
86
84
79
84
82
82
89
89

Daly City
Los Gato s
Oakl and

86
83
90

94

• 5/ 30/8 0
. 6/19/85
10/ 16/87
11/29 (72
• 11/1(74
10/ 19/85
. 9/15 /81
• 2/15( 78
1/14 (76
. . 7/9/8 5
. 11/ 5/90
10/ 11/89
. 4/ 30/8 6
. 3/31 /87

Mon eta
Tuol umn e
Poin setta
Euca lyptu s
Mari n . . . •
Mag nolia ..
Hunt inglo n Beac h
North Butte . .
Sain t John 's
Ange les Mesa
Sant a Lucia .
Broth erho od
Fort Croo k
Las Palm as

. 366

Gard ens
87
Sono ra .
94
Vent ura
88
Hayw ard
. 103
San Rafael
93
Sant a Barb ara
98
Hunt ingto n Beac h 80
Grid ley . . .
95
Conc ord . .
91
Los Angeles
89
King City
82
San Fran cisco
85
Fall Ri11er Mills
85
Fres no
94

Unck les, Berth a

10/28 /88

Reseda

. 666

Rese da

87

Van der Gee r. Selm a
Voig ht, Hele n . . .
Vollm an. Florence

. 10/6/ 90
. 2/ 15/84
. 7/ 28/8 9

Carp inter ia
San Fran cisco
Salin as ..

Carp inter ia
San Fran cisco
Salin as

89
78
92

Wad low, Nona
Wag ner, E11elyn
Wag ner, Hele n
Wain scot t. Viole t
Walt er. Olyv e . .
Warb urton , Jenn ie
Warf ield, Elea nor
Was hbur n , Hele n
Wate rland , Wilm a ••
Wea11er, Caro l • .
Web b , Elea nor
Web b, Mari on +
Web ber . Hazel
Welc h , Elsie ..
Well s. Wini fred
Wes t. Vivian . .
Whit ema n , Mal11ina

10/3 1/88
. 2/18 /87
. 6/16 /88
. . 2/2/8 5
. 2/26/88
. 1/20/ 87
• 6/ 16/8 9
. 7/10 /85
. 11(7/83
. 9/19 /90
. 2117/81
12/12187
. 12/8/ 86
.. 8/8/8 3
.• 8/ 25/8 8
. 6/ 13/85
. . 1/17/ 85

Mt. Jack son
Cons uelo
Yucc a Valle y
Was hing ton .
Horn itos
Clare nce Fraser
Live Oak
Sant a Cruz
Eucalyptu s
Alha mbra
Mari n . . .
Long Beac h
Euca lyptu s
Cupe rtino
Palo Alto Roller
Frien dship
Colu mbia .. .

.•

• 405

.. 8

.633
. 243
. 191
. 242

. 380
• 230
. 725
• 625
. 302
• 370
. 575

. 444
. 139

. 204
. 295
. 325
. 802
. .20
.. 98
. 294
.. 61

. .38
• 243
. 322
. 191
. 327
. 243
. 510
. 346
. 2 10
. 461

Guer nevil le
Esco ndid o .
Yucc a Valley
Sacr ame nto
Horn itos
Dinu ba • . .
Oakl and . .
Sant a Cruz
Hayw ard
Alha mbra
San Rafael .
Long Beac h
Hayw ard
Cupe rtino
Palo Alto
San Jose
San Fran cisco

85
89
91
81
85
. 101
90
81
86
86
93
89
90
91
85
90
89

NAM E

ADMITTED

Wilk inson , Lily
· · · · 811 189
Willi ams, Doro thy . . . . . 4/30
/90
Willi ams, Flore nce · · · · · 818/90
Willi ams. Lillia n . · · · · · 7131 8
(7
Wils on Flore nce . · · · · 7 121183
Wilts e .'1sab ella · · · · · · 6/~~
/:
Wim er . Viole t . · · · · · · 31 1
4
Wolf lnaro se · · · · · · · 111 / 88
wolf~ndon Inez . · · · · • l l/ 6 (7 1
woo ds. Eliza beth · · · · l 2/l
~/:~
Wotm an. Gert rude · · · · · 41
I
Wrig ht. Bonn ie . . . . . . . 5/1/8
5
4119
190
Wrig ht, Edith + · · · · · ·
Zoel lner, Grace

· · · • · · 6i20(7 9

LODGE

NO.

147

LOCATION

AGE

John P. Jarm an
. 669
Yose mite
· ·99
Glen dale
· · · · · · 544
Yuca ipa . . · · · · · · 726
Los Bano s · · · · · · 312
Ube rtas- Secu rity · · · 466
Las Palm as . · · · · · 366
Sout h Gate . · · · · · 320
San Gabr iel . . · · · · 2 78
San Joaq uin
· · • · · 19
Leba non- Paci fic · · · 136
Gard en Grov e
· 586
Fort Croo k . · · · · · 250

San Jose
.. 100
Merc ed . . • . . 90
Glen dale
80
Yuca ipa
96
Los Bano s .. · · 96
Bake rsfie ld
80
Fresno . . . • · · 90
Bellf lowe r . · · · 76
San Gabr iel . · · 9l
Stoc kton . • · · · 84
So. San Fran cisco 94
Gard en G1011e
85
Fall River Mills . . 84

. · · · · · · 134

Vacaville . . · · · 9 7

Vacaville

WO MEN DEC EAS ED (38)

JULY 1, 199 0. JUN E 30, 1991
AVE RAG E AGE 88 YEA RS

NAM E

DECEASED

LODGE

NO.

LOCATION

AGE

4121191
Bell, Pern ecy
· · ·
Bliss ett, Mae · • · · · · · 5126191
Bode , Fay . . . . . . . . 1212
5/90
Bohn ett Janic e + · · · · 1211190
Srow ell Berth a + • · · · · 6116191
Brow n . 'P auline · · · · · · 11 18190

Salin as
· · · · · · · 204
Tuol umn e .. · · · · · · 8
Lass en . · · · · · · · 149
Tabl e Mou ntain · · · · 12 4
Mari n . . · · · · · · · 191
Vaca ville
· · · · 134

Salin as
85
Tuol umn e
91
Susanville . · · • 83
Paradise . . · · · 90
San Rafael .
86
Vacaville . · ·
94

Clan cy, Doro thy

. . . . . 6/2 1/9 1
12110190
Clint on Minn ie . · · ·
Cope nhav er, Thel ma · · · 3125191

Eden -Stan dard · · · · 11 3
Carm el . · · · · · · · 680
Coac hella .. · · · · · 476

San Lean dro
Carm el
Coac hella

83
85

Dahl strom . Hele n · · · · · 1 1281
~
Dead y Corr inne • · · · · • 51519
11161
90
Denni~. Stella . · · · · · ·

Colu mbia Bald er . · · 393
San Joaq uin
· • · 19
Sequ oia St. Elmo · · · 3 49

San Fran cisco
Stoc kton
Oakl and

88

Erns t. Eula
Estes. Flossie

. 5/15/91
10/1 9/90

Yuca ipa . · · · · · · · 726
Rialt o • . . · · · · · • 582

Yuca ipa
Rialto

79
87

Frate s , Ther esa

.. 7/8/9 0

Oakl and Dura nt

.. . 188

Oakl and

84

Goo dall , Sroo ksie
Gros s. Glad ys

. 9/ 18/90
. 3/11/91

Sant a Rosa • · · · · · · 57
San Lean dro-B rook lyn 225

Sant a Rosa
Cast ro Valle y

91
90

Hart ley, Eth~I · · · · • · · 2124/91
Hast ings. Alice . · · · · 1213 0190
Huns icker , Elois e · · · · · · 116191

Miss ion . · · · · · · · 169
Quee n Vista
· · · · • 655
Van Nuys . · · · · · · 450

San Fran cisco
Long Beac h
Van Nuys

93
88

Kiley, Berrie . • . . • . . . 911~
/~
King , Mine rva . · · · · • · 311 1

Orla nd
Burli ngam e

. . . . 262

Orla nd .. ·
Burli ngam e

95

0

. . . . 400

80

87
95

88

96

GRAND LODGE OF

THE
PROCEEDINGS OF

14 8

NA ME
l.a chm an n, Lou ise
Lo ng mi re, Ma rga ret

DE CE AS ED
. 8/5/00
1/ 28/ 91

LO DG E
Ge o. Washi ng ton
San Pa squ al

Ma rtin , lom a •
.
Masterso n, Grace
Mc Ga rth , Ma bel
Mc Mu llen , Geneva
Mu rph y, Jes sie

12/8/0 0
! l/2 6/9 0
. 2/1 6/ 91
. 2/2619 1
11!7/00

Ne vad a .. .
So que l
So toy om e-C urt is
Redon do Be ach
Santa Rosa

O'C on no r, Mae
Oliveras. Frances

11/ 6/9 0
1/ 15 /9!

NO .
. 435
. 452
.. 13
. 746
. 123
. 328
. .57

LO CA TIO N
San Fra nci sco
Pasadena
Ne vad a Cit y
So qu el . . .
He ald sbe rg
Re do nd o Be ach
Sa nta Rosa

Willow Glen
La Par1aite Un ion

. 67 6
•. 17

San Jos e
San Fra nci sco

A

Ge
9S
85
82

9S
84
76
90
90

88

Pa tch ett , Do ra

. 5/ 13/ 91

Ala me da

. 167

Fre mo nt

..

86

Rh oad s, Be rni ce

. 2/1319 1

Me tro po lita n

. 352

Los An gel es

86

. 4/ 1/ 91
10/ 6/0 0

San Joa qu in
Tri .. ..

.. 19
. 595

Sto ckt on . .
Los An gel es

9!

. 217191
. 9/ 14/ 90

Berkeley
Palo Alto-Roller

. 393
. 34 6

Be rke ley
Palo Alto

86
85

Sc ho tt, Erma
Sc hu nk, Ma ry
Watkins, Isabelle
Wise. Ma be l .. •

85

AD MI TT ED
.. 2/1 1/8 8
+
NA.ME
7/2 5/8 5
· · ·
Co ffm an , Deo d . · · · · ·
rol
Ha
'sh
'
eo rni

LO DG E
Taft-Midw ay
Or ovi lle · ·

1/2 4/9 0
• .. ,10/ 12/88
· · ·

La Fayette

•
.
Da bn ey, Richa rd
Wy
lie
[)a y,

. 1/ 29/ 86
12/ 12/ 90

Eix , Os me r .•
Erickson , Gusta v

12/ 13/ 82
· · · · 7/ 17/ 84
Ferrara, Frank +
· · : : : 5/21/91
Fin ney , He rbe rtd ·• ·
1/9 !74
r
rna
Forsyth. Be
4/7 3
B/1
.
.
.
.
+
Fra ser , Cla ren ce
·
·
·
·
·
Frush , Paul · · ·
/91

. 6/5
8187
. . 712
+
Ga be rdiel, G~rner
7/ 11/ 90
..
;
.
+
el
bn
Ga
rfia s,
•

Ga
. . 318184
+
Ge ph art , Wo od row
· · · · · S/24/8 9
Go nzo , Odo · · ·
· · · · · 8/8/90
·
nry
Go rha m, He + * . . . . .
n
Joh
,
by
Gr igs

NA ME

AD MI TT ED
10/ 13!74
12/ 27/ 00
. 6/ 13/ 90

LO DG E
Sequoia-St. Elm o
Riverside
Boron

NO .
. -34 9
. 459
. 82 2

LO CA TIO N
Ala me da
Riverside
Bo ron

AG E

Ba gb y, Everett +
. 3/ 19/ 85
Be cht el, Ernest + *
. 8/ !4/ 90
+
Se rco vich , Prentiss
. 8/ 10/ 89
+
Be rth els en , Wi llia m
• 8/ 16/00
+
Bla ckm on , Velton
. 8/2 6/8 9
Bo eh ler, Cla ren ce
• l / 28/ 86
. . . . 3/ 28/ 00
Bo hn ett, Me rlin
+ . . 9/ 11/ 80
Branstetter, Wa lter
th + . 8128185
Bre nn em an . Ke nne
Bro we lf, Walter
. 9/ 25/ 85
Bro wn ell, Russell
. 9/ 26/ 85
.
Bu nch , Fo rd .. .
. 8f7/87
*
lie
Les
l.
Bu rch ina
. 5/9 /90
Burt, Ho wa rd
10/ 6/8 9

Ma rip osa
Westchester Un ite d
Tri- Square
Ma rip osa
Te hac hapi
Pa rk Cro cke tt
Table Mo un tain
Redla nd s ..
Yerba Buena
Ma rin .. ..
Un ited . . ..
Le mo n Grove
Bra wle y ..
Sa nta Cru z

• .24
. 57 2
. 551
. . 24
. 313
. 139
. 124

Ma rip osa
Playa Del Rey
Ha yw ard .
Ma rip osa
Tehach ap i
San Fra nci sco
Paradise
Re dla nds
Oa kla nd ..
San Rafael .
San Franci sco
Le mo n Gro ve
Bra wle y
Santa Cruz

92
82

..

84
86
91
87

Ca in, Ma nic e
Ca mo zzi e. Fre d
Case, Wi llia m
Ch ee ne y, Bu rto n
Cle me nts. Ma rte n

Elysian
Yo unt .. .
He nry Cray
Ca list oga
Mo un t Olive

Los An gel es
Na pa .. . .
Su tte r Cre ek
Ca list og a
Los An gel es

77
93
73
79
91

Ag ne w, Da ym on d
Alb ert son , Ro y + *
Ap ple by, Arm on

.

.
.

11/ 18/ 89
. 3/6/86
. l / 23/ 89
. 11/ 6/8 0
. 5/ 12/86

..

..

..

. 300
. 403
. 191
. 37 4
. 736
. 40 2
.. 38
. 418
. .. 12
. . .95
.23 3

.. 506

..

86
86
82

86
87

85
88
00
87

86
88

Ph oenix ·

AG E

NO .
. 426
.. 103

LO CA TIO N
Ta ft
Or oville

.. 126
.. 178

· 90
Sebastap ol
80
San Bernardi no ·

. • . 305
Azusa · · · ·• · · . . . 188
t
ran
Du
Oa kla nd· · · 406
Bu rba nk · · · ·
· · • 110
Pajaro . · • · · ·
· · · 756
·
lley
Va
n
yto
Cla
. 435
ton
ng
shi
Wa
e
Ge org
. 37 3
·
·
.
W . Los An geles
.
· · . 178
Ph oen ix · · · · ·
• • · · 14
Te mp le · · • · ·
· · · j 38
·
·
·
Sa nta Cruz
· · · 25
Co nsu elo • · • ·
. . . 393
Co lum bia -Ba lde r
· · · 53 3
Azure · · · · · ·

Azusa .
Oa kla nd

.

85

.. . 83

. . . . 79
84

82
Bu rba nk · · · · •
70
Wa tso nvi lle . . .
90
·
·
Co nco rd · · ·
88
San Fra nci sco · ·
84
.
.
.
es
gel
An
Los
85
San Berardin o · ·
98
So no ma · · · · · 74
Santa Cru z · · ·
89
Escond'1d o · · · ·
83
San Franci sco · •
83
·
·
·
·
·
im
An ahe

· · · · · ::
d · · · · • ' : .. 265 Orl and ·
Or lan
· • · · ' ·
5
sno
46
Fre
·
92
Ce nte r · · · • ·
Ha
N. Ho llywoo d . .
· · · .. 1/1 0(7 7
Ho llyw oo d · · · ~;
:
rth
Ha rp, Elm er · · ·
•
No
·
d
oo
llyw
/88
5/6
N. Ho
· · ·
· · ·
Silver Tro we l · ·
Ha ven s, Terry · ·
· · · ·
ille
n11
Ker
27
8
91
17/
·
~/
·
•
·
·
· · ·
85
Ke rn River Va lley
He ge r, Ro ber t • ·
El Do rad o ·
. .43
· · · · · 5/ 16/90
86
· · · · · · ·
He nd ry, Jos ep h •
·
·
·
am
·
Hir
·
rst
· · ' 7/ 10/ 87
· · · 788 Oa khu
Ho llen , Mc Ma rtin +· · · · ·
Sierra · · · · · ·
rd
wa
Hu gh es, Ed
87
124 Paradise . .. ..
.
Mo un tai n · · · ·
88
ble
86
Ta
..
12/
.
8/
.
.
.
ley
rke
•
· · · · . 8/ 16/88 Be rkeIey · · · · · · . 36 3 Be
94
Jac kso n, Ha rry +
·
·
3
i
218
4/2
Lod
6
.
25
.
.
76
Jef fer son , Th om as
. · · · · • ' .. .
di
Lo
rd
na
Ox
· · · · · 7/ 12/ 89 Ox nar d · · · · · · · · 341
Joh nso n, Paul + · · · · ·
Jon es, Wi lha m
· · · · 81
· . 582 Rialto
ra . . 84
90 Rialto . · · · · · ·
rba
16/
Ba
1/
.
nta
Sa
2/6/89
· · · 24 2
Ke asler, Jac k + . . . .
· · • 86
Ma gn olia · · · ·
zo
ren
Lo
n
Sa
9
70
rd
Ke ffe r, Ed wa
. . . . . . 1110/79 Lorenzo · · · · · · · ·
Koehler, Jac k
91
de sto · · · · ·
· · · · · · 206 Mo
nislaus
· · 85
89
Sta
16/
sco
9/
nci
..
Fra
n
3
Sa
218
1
. ...
.. . . . 8/2
85
Oc ciden tal- Ca lif .
.
Le hm an , Ad olp h
561
San 0 1eg o · · · ·
• 12/6/9 0
. 0
rd ~
San Dieg · · · ·
st
Ea
Lo hm eyer, Ed wa
e
Lun de qu ist, Ge org
77
El Mo nte · · · · ·
· · · ~~
·
84
·
·
o
·
5
nd
·
9/8
·
Ho
·
8/1
Rio
Liv erm ore
.. 2/26/91
. . ..
89
c · · · · · • · ·
Ma gill. Ho wa rd_+.
·
sai
·
Mo
·
·
da
me
6
39
Ala
1/31 /89
· ·
87
ollo Wo od sto ck ..
Ap
·
Ma yna rd. Marvin
·
·
·
.. 10 San Jos e
+ . . : . 2/2 /89
Mc Do na ld, '-:'alter
· · · · · · .. lO
· · · 90
e
·
Jos
e
n
Sa
Jos
San
90
· ·
iar:; + · · 10/ 11/
San Jose · · · ·
Mo nroe, ~ll
Mo rto n, Ohver +
88
Torra nce
• • • 447
87
7
8/890
10/18/
Torrance · · · ·
n Fra nci sco
Sa
. · ~ · · · : 7/
169
· · ·
Missio n · · · · ·
Ne wkirk , JeS;Siem +
.
.
No rbe rt. Wi llia
· ' • 87
. . . 733 Sa cra me nto
Golde n Em pir e .
80
301
61
.
.•
Ols on. Ma rvin +
6/ 15/ 89

· : : 9/ 21/ 89
nse n, Arthur + · ·

E 86
(93) AV ER AG E AG
ME N RE SI DE NT S
NE 30, 1991
JU LY 1, 19 90 - JU

14 9

CALIFORNIA

. .. . ..

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NAME
Parker, John +
Parks, Robert
Perss on, Martin
Phillip s, Guy +
Phillip s , Robe rt + *
Pococ k, Harol d +
Purcell , Ernes t

ADM ITIED
. 5/ 29/81
. . 213/89
. 2123/8 2
12/ 14/87
. 1/31/91
. 8/28/8 0
. 3/ 19/85

Richa rdson , Rice
Robli n . Robe rt +
Rothe , Henry . .
Roud ebush , Myron

1/29/85
10/6/87
5/28/ 91
. 9/ 14/89

Poin settia
Vista
Oakla nd-Du rant
Shoreline . . ..

Scott , Henry
Seeb a,Joh n

. 9/ 25/81
11 /20/84

Serm uks, Carl
Snow , Sherw ood
Spine lli, Franc is . . .
Some s, Georg e +
Soren sen. Svend
Stree t, Clare nce + *

. 8/24/89
. 1/ 15/86
. 6/ 10/91
. 3/17/8 7
10/ 18/89
. 1/ 17/80

El Cerrit o-Alb any
San Franc isco
Educa tor
Heme t
Orind a
Geo. Wash ington
Greenleaf .. .
Bene cia . . . .
Claylo n Valley
St. John 's

166
. 615
. 521
.. 435
.. 670

North Hollyw ood
El Cajon Valley
Santa Lucia

. 542
. 576

. 363
. 327

LODG E
NO.
San Leand ro-Bro oklyn 225
Cons uelo
. 325
Poinsettia
. 633
Keith
. 187
Marip osa
. .24
Lomp oc .
. 262
Menlo Park
. 651

Taylo r, Ernes t . . . . .
Thom pson, Mauri ce +
Tomli n , Louis *+

• 1/28/8 8
. 7/ 19/88
11(7/9 0

Watk ins, Ernes t +
Webb . John +
Webe r, Elais + . .
Weist er, Ulwre nce *
Wenn er, Henry . .

12/ 12/87
. 3/31 /88
. . 6/5/90
. 5/15/6 9

Willia ms, Nelso n +
Wrigh t, Hestan +

1/ 23/84
4/19/9 0

Berl<eley
Long Beach
Morni ng Star
Los Gatos . .
San Franc isco
Educa tor
Oak Grove
Fort Crook

Zuelz ke, Clare nce

. 8/15/8 8

Bixby Knolls

. 319167

.633
. 687

LOCA TION
San Leand ro
Escon d ido
Ventura
Gilroy . .
Marip osa
Lomp oc
Menlo Park

AGE

86
89
88

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

151

NO.
• 370

LOCA TION
AGE
San Franc isco
90
Mode sto . . · · · 96

DECE ASED
. . . 7/14/9 0
..• 9/26/ 90

NAM E
outto n , Robe rt
Dykes, Duke

LODG E
Broth erhoo d
Stanis laus

.. 206

80

Eiken berry , Russell

. 7/23/9 0

San Marin o · · · · · · 685

82
81

Fay, Richa rd

• 2/16/91

Seafaring

85

San Marin o

• 87

Newp ort Beach

93

Eurek a
· · · · · · · 16
Cons uelo. : · · · · · · 325

Aubu rn
Escon dido

89
88

Golde n Gavel · · · • · 445

Los Ange les

87

.. 7/ 13/90

0
Lefoe , Jame s . • • . . . . •. 9/4/9
5/ i/91
LeVitt, Ralph
· · · · ' ·
Luttre ll, Georg e
.. . . . 3/8/9 1

Roseville
· · · · · • 222
26
El Dorad o
Santa Rosa · · · · · · · 57

Roseville . ·
Place rville
Santa Rosa

84
88
85

McCa llum, Manle y

Pasad ena
Cons olidat ed
Crese nta-C anada

272
. 652

Pasad ena
La Crese nta

84

Alta Mt. Sierra

. . . 408

Sierra Madr e

79

Vacaville

. . • 134

Vacaville .•

91
96
77

Gray, Harol d
Heils burg, Arthur

. . . . • 4/21/91
. . 7/18/9 0

. • · • · · · 708

Ventu ra
Vista ..
Oakla nd
Long Beach

97
85
85

El Cerri10

74

. . 5

Daly City
Heme t
Orind a
San Franc isco
Whitt ier
Benecia

81
91
84
81
87

756

Conc ord

99

Rose nblum , Louis

No. Hollw yood
El Cajon
King City

88
82
82

18/90
Sligar , Alva · · · · · · · . 1/
.
Steve nson Frank • · · · · 618190
Stewart, Elmer · · • · · · · 316191

Colum bia Balde r . . . 393
Clare nce Frazer
. 294
Golde n Rule · · • · · 479

San Francisco
Dinub a . ·
San Jose

Berke ley
Long Beach
Stock ton
Los Gatos

93
91

Taylo r , Delbert · · · · • · 2126191
Thau, Carl · · · · ~ · · · · l0/9/: ;
Thom pson , Jame s . . . . 9 /26/

Welco me . • · • · · · 255
Apollo -Woo dstoc k · · 396
Oakla nd Duran t • · · 188

Lemo ore . · · · · 90
Alame da
· · · · 92
Oakla nd . · · · · 91

93

. 215
. 250

Daly City .
Alame da .
Fall River Mills

93
89
94

Webe r , Elais · · · · · · · • 612190
Willia ms Clare nce , •. 10/15/90
Wrigh t, John • · · · · · 11126190

Morn ing Star · · - · • ·68
Atwater Larchmont .. 614
Soqu e . . . . . . , . , 195

Stock ton . • · • · 81
Los Angel es
86
Soqu el . . . . . . 95

. 699

Long Beach

76

• 188
. 543

. 686

. 302

..68
. 292

166

86

98

82

DEC EAS ED MEN RESIDENTS (29)
AVERAGE AGE 87
NAME
Ande rson , Lester

DECE ASED
. 7f7/91

LODG E
Starr King

NO.
. 344

LOCA TION
San Franc isco

AGE
79

Booth by, Robe rt
Brow n, Jack .. .
Butts. Frede rick .
Buzol ich , Josep h

1/20/91
. 2/24/91
12/10 /90
1214/9 0

Seafaring
San Jose
Nevada
Oak Grove

. 708
. .10
. . 13
. 215

Newp ort Beach
San Jose
Neva da City
Alame da

85
89
91
90

Carlis h, Jerom e .

10/ 2190

Live Oak

. .61

Oakla nd

86

Joach imsen , Edmo nd

. , .. 3/19/91

McCo nnell, Russell · · · · 1 l /6190
Papke . Willia m

· · • · · · • 115190
. . . . 12/8/9 0

86

85

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATOR

embrace the Covina community and it's adjacent areas utilizing common
resources.

MASONIC HOMES, COVINA

1990-1991
THE EVOLUTION AT COVINA
This past year has been one of growth; growth not only in population
but in the quality of service and the manner in which service is delivered.
Covina's growth is unusual in that the children's program has stabilized
at an average of 28 residents and the adult program is growing along
predicted trends.
Portions of our programs at Covina are jointly allocated such as administration, dietary and facUity maintenance. Where one program seems
more cost efficient due to a higher population, the other gives the opposite
impression.
Your Board of Trustees carefully watches not only expenditures but is
fully dedicated in ensuring that each resident, regardless of age, has a safe,
secure and dignified life in a quality environment. This includes fine housing,
good nutrition, activities conducive to each resident's needs and desires,
and effective health care.
THE COVINA ADULT PROGRAM
This has been our first full fiscal year of operation with both child and
adult care programs adjacent one another. We have completed the planned
expansion and our goal to fill a greater need has come to fruition.
Voluntary relationships have formed between many of our children and
adult residents and has the predicted affect of multiplying the benefit to both.
On January 8, 1990, the adult program at Covina commenced its
operations. Our population has grown to 30 ambulatory residents. We
project growth to 40 adult residents in 28 apartments during the next fiscal
year. The elderly in need and approved for admission will continue to be
admitted to the Adult Home at Covina and the population will ultimately
stabilize at between 75 to 85 residents.
The adults living at Covina have available a variety of recreational,
education and spiritual activities of interest to senior citizens. Our residents

153

Although Covina is not a licensed health care facility, the Masonic Home
health care program has been enhanced to provide assistance to aging
persons who need extra care to remain suitably and happily placed at
Covina for as long as possible with the provision of excellent health care for
all. Our residents have access to programs relating to their own health
maintenance.
THE COVINA CHILD CARE PROGRAM
We are proud to announce the employment of Brother Ronald C. Bunte
(334) as Director of Children's Services. After 31 years of experience in the
public school arena, he brings to the Masonic Home a fresh insight into the
chUd care program. Brother Ron is supervised by the Administrator and has
concentrated on a more formal preparation of children for independent
living, enhancement of the role of the Houseparent as the primary level of
care, improving the children's academic program, and improving contact
with guardians, Lodges and extended family members through various
media.
We continue to assure that children receive educational assistance. The
Masonic Home utilizes non-certificated proctors for specific subject assistance and a certificated tutor for 1: 1 tutoring of our elementary students. At
the elementary age the basic foundations of study are learned.
Through the Director of Children's Services, Houseparents provide
effective supervision for residents while on planned activities, regardless of
the activity location. Support services are available to the Houseparents to
assure that they have time to dedicate themselves to each child. Our
Houseparents are residential employees and live in the cottage with the
chDdren they serve. No resident is alone and without supervision whDe in
the cottage.
The Masonic Home has developed guidelines for the discipline of
chBdren. Discipline Is learning and the Masonic Home favors the concept
of using "natural and logical consequences" and teaches discipline as "skills
that show caring." Natural consequences are things that happen as a result
of the initial action. Logical consequences closely link the consequence to
the type of inappropriate behavior.
Activities are well rounded and include educational, spiritual and recreational programs benefiting residents. Mature and responsible residents may

154

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

engage in supervised off-grounds activities without Houseparent supervision, i.e., dates, picnics, beach trips, theater, etc. The Houseparent
assigned to a cottage has primary responsibility for determining the level of
maturity and responsibility of the resident requesting this privilege.

CHILDREN CURRENTLY IN RESIDENCE
BIRTHDATE

GRADE

9

Gemini No. 825

04-29-82

4

Watson, James

10

La Puente No. 446

06-01-81

4

Gundick, John

11

Oceanside No. 381

09-26-80

5

Montoya, Darrel

11

Acacia No. 243

02-05-80

6

Montoya, Vincent

13

Acacia No. 243

09-15-78

8

13

Whittier No. 323

11-12-n

9

Plant, Mike

CURRENT TRENDS
The Masonic Home has completed a study and computerization of our
alumni information. We have an association which has become more active
and which meets annually. Basic information is maintained which permits
continued contact with alumni In order to assist them if possible.
In our 91 year history we have touched the lives of 1,372 children. Prior
to my employment date of June 1, 1981, the average age upon admission
of a child was 9.8 years and the average length of residency was 5.4 years.
During the last ten years the average age upon admission has been 10.6
years and the average length of stay 3.2 years. It is obvious that we are
receiving children at an older age and, when appropriate, assisting them in
returning to a family which has been re-unified.
Older children who are placed outside the family often have preconceived impulses and persuasions which are more difficult to improve.
Despite our difficult tasks, your Masonic Home continues to do excellent
work consistent with the will of God and our obligations as Masons.
For children remaining through adulthood, the Masonic Homes of
California continues it's caring through a scholarship program administered
by the Administrator and supervised by the Scholarship Committee of the
Board of Trustees. Applications are submitted for higher education in
accredited colleges and universities or vocational schools approved by the
Scholarship Committee.

I

LODGE AND NUMBER

Mulcahey, Jesse

BOYS

The Masonic Homes of California assures each child receives incidental
and emergency medical, dental, or other care appropriate to conditions and
needs. As well, proper supervision is provided for our children.

AGE

155

Burns, Joey

14

Galt No. 267

11-07-76

9

Reed, Mark

15

Victorville No. 634

01-26-76

9

Hargrove, Matthew

10

15

Palms-Adams No. 512

06-02-76

Kelly, Sean

15

Los Alamitos No. 809

02-23-76

10

Plant, John

16

Whittier No. 323

12-07-74

11

Perry, Mark

17

Covina No. 334

08-26-74

11

Thomas, Jason

18

University No. 394

06-27-73

12

McConchie, Brian

18

San Juan No. 732

04-24-73

12

Rasmussen, Bill

18

Nevada No. 13

10-28-72

College

Vaughn, Charles

19

Guadalupe No. 237

07-02-72

College

GIRLS

AGE

BIRTH DATE

GRADE

Huntington Beach No. 380

07-05-86

K

LODGE AND NUMBER

Enciso, Jennifer

5

Enciso, Jessica

7

Huntington Beach No. 380

08-16-84

2

Hahn, Corl

9

Tujunga No. 592

12-20-81

4

Neely, Leslie

12

Montebello No. 451

06-02-79

6

Neely, Lisa

12

Montebello No. 451

06-02-79

6

Haughenberry, Tina

12

Oceanside No. 381

12-27-78

7

Ogren, Melissa

13

Santa Monica-Palisades No. 307

03-20-78

8

Hackett, kny

14

Paul Revere No. 462

04.11-n

9

Lindsay, Robyn

14

Hawthorne No. 647

12-07-76

9

Guadalupe No. 237

07-27-76

10

Vaughn, Michele

15

REUNITED WITH FAMILY
Sizemore, Mike

17

Malta-El Sereno No. 588

04-14-74

11

Hackett, Kristin

18

Paul Revere No. 462

01-16-73

12

REACHED MATURITY

"

Precht, Dorsey

18

Gooch, James

20

Covina No. 334

03-26-73

College

Huntington Beach No. 380

12-01-71

College

156

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORN
IA

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

IRA NS FER RE D 1"0 UNION

DECEASED
McCabe , Steve

18

Lakewood No. 728

04·16-73

ADULTS CURRENT.LY IN RE
MEN
Loren Bennit1"
Orin Blab on
Wallace Brekke
George Burke
Everette Cros by
Jose ph Duc h"
Gerald Eckland
Ethe lber t Han son*
William Kennedy
Rich mon d Lewis
Uoy d Mille r
Charles Pay ne•
Willard Swanson
Frank Sylvester
WO MEN
Nao mi Blabon

Bett y Brekke
Dolly Burke
Anna Duc h*
Ruth Dryd en•
Angeline Eckland
Florence Eichhorn
Elizabeth Ger man y•
The lma Kennedy
Blanche Lewis
Myrtle Miller
Alta Moo ney
Katherine Pappas
Rachel Quig ley
Blanche Scholl
Rosanna Sud ano •
Margaret Swanson
Pat Sylvester

Monte Vista No. 655
Oceanside No. 381

BIRTHDATE

Man ley McCallum

01-09-90

05-01·1906

Charlotte McCa\lum

02-07-1900

11-26-90

06-01-1905

01-13-90

01 -14-1905

Chula Vista No. 626

0 1-30-91

11 -02-1909

NAM E
Anne Alexander

01-09-90

Holl ywo od No. 355

03-05-1907

Kenneth Ferguson

01-02-91

Westchester United N 0. 572

Belt Ray Mooney

0 1-09-90

12-23-1913
11 -27·1 904

Consuelo No. 325
Bell No. 483

Rialto No. 582
Alhambra p rogress11•1e No.

03-17-1907

()8-30·90

()9-16-1907

02-05-91

04-1 3-1906

02-05·91

01-03-1910

ADMISSION

BIR THD ATE

01-12-91

08-28-1904

()6-19-91

01-2 4-191 4

04-22·91

()6-25-1907

04-12-91

05·04·1898

eoio na No. 324

ADM ISSI ON
03·15·90

Table Mountain No. 124

BIR THD ATE

08·08·90

Azure No. 533

Edn a Grigsby

LODGE AND NUM BER

ADM ISSI ON

Azuie No. 533

John Grig sby

SIDENCE

CITY

LOD GE AND NUM BER

NAM E

Coro na No. 324

DECEASED

Herbert Walgren

LOD GE AND NUM BER
Cam ellia No. 612
Santa Cruz No. 38
AnchorN o. 273
Monte Vista No. 655

02-02-91

03-30-1906

322

04-24-90

Wes tCov1·n a- La Pue nte No. 446
Three Pillars No. 613

06-20-1909

04-23-91

12·15- 1909

Respectfully submitted.

01-09·90

Alhambra Progressive No. 322

12-06·90

02-05-1905
03-14·1909

Joh n A. Rose. Adm inis trator

09-01·90

08-04- 191 0

LODGE AND NUM BER
Oceanside No. 381

ADM ISSI ON

BIRTHDATE

03-15-90

Tab le Mountain No. 124

11·15-1897

11-26-90

Consuelo No. 325

10-20- 1909

01-13-90

Chuta Vista No. 626

10-12·1898

01-1 3-90

12-14-1909

01-09-90

05-03-1901

Redondo No. 328

Monte Vista No. 655
Hollywood No. 355
Pomona No. 246
Norwalk No. 3 15
Rialto No. 528

01-02-91

02·24· 19 17

08-04-90

08·05-1907

01-09-90

09-09-1903

02-02-91

02-06-1917

04-24-90

03·28-1911

Alhambra Progressive No. 322
West Co vina
· - La Puente N o. 446

04-23-91

Anchor No. 2 73

01-11-19 12

10-31-90

05·31-1908

Golden Gavel No. 445
Table Mountain No. 124

03-02-91

01 -06-1906

11-26-90

Hun tingt on Beach No . 380
Burbank No. 406

04·30-1908

06-29-91

05·22·1909

Alhambra Progressive No. 322
Redondo No. 328

*Tr ans ferr ed from Union City

01-09-90

04-09- 1904

12-06-90

08·18-1902

09-0 1·90

01-13-1925

157

REPOR1" OF 1"RUSTEES
C,ALIFORNIA MA SO NIC ME MO
RIA L TEM PLE
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand

Lod ge, F.& A.M. of California:
Your Boa rd of Tru stees me ets
quarterly and this year we hav
e

ac-

complished the tol\ owi ng:
FLA GP OLE - CA LIF OR NIA SIR

EE T

On Sunday , Oct obe r 13. 1991
. at 12:30 p.m.• our Grand Master
and his
Corps of Officers, dedicated the
erected flagpole on the front por
ch
ol the California Memorial Tem
ple at the corner ol Calttor nia
and Taylor
Streets.

n~Y

PINE SIR EE T PROPERTY

A special meeting was held Jan
uary 3, t 991 with representativ
es ol the
oeW oll Realty Co.• Managers
ol the Pine Street Properties,
to address
Internal Revenue Serviee Aud
it recommendation no. 6 ol Ma
rch 28, t99 0.
The following guidelines were
established :

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1. Repairs in exc ess of $1 ,00

0.00 will req uire Boa rd app rov

2. Mo nth ly pro per ty reports to

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFOR

al.

2.

era tion s
edures by Tem ple or Grand
Lod ge
a. Bet ter con trol pro c cou ntin
g
ope
rati
ons
.
per son nel of gar age ac

3. Rec om me nda tion s by
Travelers Ins ura nce Co. in
the ir "Lo ss
Con trol Survey" of Sep tem ber
20, 1990 are bei ng reviewed
with the
City and Cou nty of San Fra
nci sco for com plia nce .

. t'on of pot ent ial add itional
par kin g equipment,
b . Des cnp 1
.
.
.
d
the
ir
rela
tive me rits .
pric es. an
Pro fita bilit y if gar age is ope t d by the Me mo rial
ra e
c.
Tem ple or Grand L od ge.

TEM PLE AN D GA RA GE

A FO R PR OF IT CO RP OR ATI

ON ?

The Exe cut ive Com mit tee
has asked Don ald B. McC
aw, P.G.M., to
exa min e the legal pos sibi litie
s of dev elo pin g a "For Profit"
Cor por atio n to
ope rate the Aud itor ium and
Garage of the Cal iforn ia Me mo
rial Tem ple . Suc h
a cor por atio n cou ld pot ent ially
offset the rising expenses for
Grand Lod ge
and assist in red uci ng the "pe
r cap ita tax."

.

3 . Review o f Aud itor ium Op era tion s

.
.
s and inq uiri es with sup por
Res
tmg
ults
of com par iso n
a.
cha rts and tab les .
. .
resentatio n of que stio nna ires
from
b. Comp1lat1on andT pmp le
aud itorium leasees.
pre sen t and form er e

ALC OH OL IC BE VE RA GE S
The Jur isp rud enc e Com mit
tee was ask ed to out line
the con diti ons
und er whi ch alc oho lic bevera
g~s cou ld be served in
the Me mo rial Tem pie.
It has bee n con clu ded tha t
the Memorial Tem ple wo uld
be sub jec t to the
sam e term s and con diti ons
as per mit ted by all Ma son ic
Tem ple Ass ocia tion s. How eve r, act ion has bee
n def erre d until the com ple tion
of the Del oitt e
and Tou che special study.
SP EC IAL STU DY
Del oitt e and Tou che , Certifie
d Pub lic Acc oun tan ts for the
Grand Lod ge
of California, have bee n eng
age d and are in the pro ces
s of ma kin g an
in-d ept h spe cial stu dy of the
ope rati ons of the Me mo rial Tem
ple , the Ga rag e
and the Pine Street Properties
. This stu dy is to eva lua te and
ma xim ize the
pro fita bilit y and occ upa ncy
of eac h com pon ent of the
Memorial Temple,
tog eth er with rec om me nda
tion s to acc om plis h the sam
e. It will inc lud e the
foll owi ng :
1. Inte rna l Acc oun ting Con

trol Review

a. Strengths and wea kne sse
s.
b. Rec om me nda tion s for cor

rec tive actions.

159

Review of Parking Garage Op

be in gre ate r detail.

CA LIF OR NIA ME MO RIA L

NIA

. I marke ting plans. ope rati
ona l
c . Sug ges tion s to~ pot~~~~ic
ations tog eth er with oth er
cha nge s. and pol icy
rec om me nda tion s.

4.

Review of Pine Street Apa rtm

ent Buildi~g Op era tion s

•
a. Rental rates and .oc cup cy fac tors in rela tion ship to
an
c om par abl e loc al units.
GR AN D LO DG E LIB RA RY

AN D MU SE UM

. fun ded and ope rate d by
The Gra nd Lod ge Lib rary and
M~s:du~a~ had an app rov ed bu? get the
Me mo rial Tem ple Boa rd of
~ru ste~s pen for you r pleasu re and eni for
oym~;~
-1991 of $28,850. The Library
iso .
bet wee n the hou rs of 10.
1M990onday thro ugh Frid ay (ex
cep t .on
0. Lar ry West. and his staff,
the Dire cto rs I
a.m . and 3:00 p.m .. u nde rMu
seu m Curato r, Viv ian Estee
.
with the assistance of the

holl~~py~f

OL D BO OK S IN ST OR AGE
.
tora ge
l'b ary each hav e ·
The Gra nd Lod ge of Califor
nia and thed~ rare to be inve in s
nto
ried
and
icate old boo ks. wh ich if not
nee
,
iven to the Lib rary tor
ma ny d~dpl The pro cee ds from
any sale are toh b:~ the Lib
the n so ·
rary Dire cto r.
.
upk eep and ma inte nan ce. The Trustee s aut or

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.
with the assistance of the Executiv
e Assistant to the Grand Secretary, to
proceed with this inventory.

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMM ITIEE
ON PRINCE HALL RECOGNITION

CHANGES IN THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEMBERSHIP

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
Master
This special committee was formed at the direction of the Grand
and
Master
Grand
ng
incomi
the
n
as a result of a verbal agreement betwee
Annual
1990
the
at
wn
withdra
was
the proponent when Resolution No. 90-7
Communication.

.
During the past year the followin h
g c anges m membership to the Board
of Trustees has taken place:
1. Resignation : Trustee Robin Mansfield, for health reasons.

161

2. New Appointment: Trustee Francis A. Russell . J r.

The charge by the Grand Master to the committee was:

.
3. Trustee Rober to. West p GM h
as ~omple_ted his term of nine
(9) years of faithful and d~: ·t
ica e service. His presence will be
missed.

of
Califorof
A.M.
F.&
Lodge,
Grand
California and the MW Prince Hall
nia, Inc., and their constituent lodges;

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

2. To meet with the representatives of the MW Prince Hall Grand
Lodge of California, Inc.; and

d

Your Board of Trustees wish to a k
and assistance provided by the Executive v· ~ n~wledge the dedication
er, Loren
Manag
l
Genera
and
t
re~1~en
Stritenberger and his able staff· t~eL
and to
Paul;
Varnum
or,
ounsel
.
ega
the Grand Treasurer Grand Sec'r
nt
Assista
ary,
Secret
~rand
ant
/ss1st
to the Grand Secret~ry and to Ac~~J
their
for
Erazo
Nurys
isor,
Superv
ing
n
conscientious and faithful serv·ice.
Respectfully submitted,
Robert A. Bush, Presid ent
Robert O. West, P.G.M., Vice Preside nt

Merton A. Jacobs
William J. Taylor, Jr.
Francis A. Russell , Jr.
Donald E. Weisse
Sta 1 M
n ey · azneau x, Deputy Grand Master

c

1. To study the future relationship between the Grand Lodge

3. To report to the 1991 Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
of California its findings.
for the
As time marches on, social needs and modes change. Today
ago -years
d
hundre
a
from
t
differen
quite
Grand Lodge of California life is
met.
be
must
and
arise
ns
situatio
New
-five.
or fifty years ago, or even twenty
an
gain
to
that
s
believe
ously
unanim
Your committee recognizes this and
and
worthy
most
a
is
ia
Californ
in
sonry
understanding of Prince Hall Freema
sonry in
timely undertaking, and is definitely for the benefit of Freema
lar.
particu
in
ia
Californ
of
general, and the Grand Lodge
and
Your committee also recognizes that a change of relationship
be
not
should
and
cannot
Lodge
Grand
Hall
understanding with the Prince
place,
taken
has
ation
deliber
careful
and
tful
accomplished until very though
a process that certainly must not be done in haste.
ves.
Prince Hall Freema sonry in California has similar goals and objecti
do.
we
as
les
princip
and
rds
standa
moral
and they subscribe to the same
with
as
and,
1855
since
ia
Californ
in
Prince Hall Freemasonry has existed
us, life has changed.

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

As directed by the Grand Master, your committee has met with a similar
committee of P.rince Hall Mas?ns (on May 18 and June 15). These meetings
have been serious and cordial , and we sincerely believe they have been
productive for both committees . These meetings occurred only after concurrence through each Grand Lodge's office.

Recently a number of Grand Lodges have acted to recognize the Prince
Hall Grand Lodge in their respective jurisdictions. They are --. Colorado,
Connecticut , Idaho, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota. Washington and
Wisconsin. These actions took place in 1989, 1990 and 1991. Although the
terms of recognition vary from one Grand Lodge to another, there appears
to be a course toward changing attitudes. This development should not be
overlooked.

To summarize our activities. your committee was formed on October
29, 1990, and commenced researching readily available written information

about Prince ~all Masonry. On December 8 an organizational meeting was
~eld at Seafaring Lodge No. 708 in Newport Beach. This meeting resulted
in our December 16 letter to the Grand Secretary requesting the respective
Grand .Masters to me~t informally. On February 16, 1991, a meeting of your
committee was held in San Diego. This meeting was timed to take place
during the Annual Conference of the Grand Masters of North America. The
timing and location allowed members of your committee to personally meet
and talk to people we had contacted in those Grand Lodges who have
previou~ly stu.died '.~ince Hall recognition. Each contact person had played
a ~art 1.n th~1r off1c1al process of recognition. Having been given the
California Prince Hall Committee Chairman's name, numerous phone calls
and. f~~e-to-fa~e m~e~i~gs occurred between the Chairmen in establishing
the in1t1al and h1stonc 101nt committee meeting on May 18, 1991, in Oakland.
At this initial meeting the background of Resolution No. 90-7 was reviewed.
A short history of Prince Hall Masonry in California was presented. Following
several ph.one calls and meetings between the Chairmen, a second meeting
was held in Oakland on June 15. Representatives of the MW Prince Hall
Grand Lodge of California verbally indicated their desire for some form of
official recognition. A public or lodge information process was described
as needed to handle any fears, apprehension, misunderstanding or concerns so that the expectations of each Grand Lodge could be addressed.
At its July 20 meeting the Special Committee met to develop the initial draft
version of the committee report. At the August 24 meeting this final report
was completed.
Obviously, your committee has no knowledge of the rituals of the Prince
Hall Grand Lodge or of the quality of their ritual work. However, we are
impressed with the quality of the Prince Hall men we have met. There can
be no question about their sincerity, their seriousness, their high moral
standards. their devotion to their fraternity; in short, we are convinced that
Prince Hall Masons are men of very fine character. Because of these
cont~cts. ~he ~ommittee is convinced that this is the time to develop a firm
relat1onsh1p with the MW Prince Hall Grand Lodge of California. Inc.

163

Your committee has gathered a vast amount of written material involving
history, current policy and law, interpretatio~ of applic.able ~ublic law, e~c.
All of this requires meticulous review and serious considera.t1on. O~ special
significance are (1) the history of Prince Hall Freemasonrx in Americ~, and
(2) interpretation and application of the so-called American Doctrine of
Exclusive Territorial Jurisdiction.
Implementation of Grand Master Sherod's "Mission Statement" to your
special study committee clearly requires thoughtful, ca.reful and thorough
deliberation , a process that certainly must not be done in haste.
We believe we are progressing properly and that appropriate recommendations can and will be developed for possible resolution at the 1992
Annual Communication of our Grand Lodge.
We believe our Prince Hall counterparts feel as we do about the
important need •tor thoughtful progression toward enhancing our future
relationships.
In conclusion, our committee recommends that it be con~i~ued for the
1991/92 Masonic year, as presently composed, with the explicit charge to
bring before the 1992 Annual Communication its proposals ?nd recommen -

dations respecting some form of recognition of the MW Prince Hall Grand
Lodge of California, Inc. and als~ that the Gr~nd Master, ~he Deputy Gr~nd
Master and their designees continue to meet informally wit~ co~responding
representatives of the MW Prince Hall Grand Lodge of California, Inc.

Your committee wishes to thank the Grand Lodge for allowing it to serve
and it hopes that its efforts will meet with the approv~I of Grand .~odge. We
wish to thank the Grand Master for this confidence m us. Add1t1on~lly, w_e
wish to thank the proponent of Resolution No. 90-7 for suggesting this
important and timely study.

164

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

d
I move that this report be ace ted
an that the recommendations
ep
contained therein be adopted .

Respectfully submitted.

165

John W. Dennis, Chairman
George E. Fuson, Jr.
Albert F. Koula
George Lazorisak

Respectfully submitted,
Theodore Meriam. PGM
Francis A. Russell, Jr.

Paul T. Hodiak Chairman
'

Edwin Long
James M. Vaughan

Byron C. Smith
Frank B. Stimson
Oliver A. Thomas

Report ADOPTED.

Report ADOPTED.

REPORT OF COMM IITEE ON CREDENTIALS

.
To the Most Worshipful Grand lodge, F·& AM
. . of Ca11.1ornia:

Cr~dentials is pleased to submit this report of the
142n~o~~ Co~;ittee o~cat1on
of the Grand Lodge.
nua

ommun1

. Agfain w~ wish to express our thanks to the Grand Secretary and his
o ff ice or their help.

REPORT OF THE COMM IITEE ON RECOGNITION
OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

To the Most Worshipful Grand lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
Your committee reported to the Grand Master earlier this year that
several Grand Lodges had been approved for interim recognition. These
of
Grand Lodges had received approval from the Recognition Commission
.
America
North
of
Masters
the Conference of Grand
They are:

Of the 508 Chartered Lodges, 467 were represented.
The total registration is as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers . . . . . .
2
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · 8
Past Grand Masters
17
· · · · · · · ·
Past Grand Secretarie~ . . · · · · · · ·
1
· · · · · · ·
. · · ·
Past Grand Lecturers
1
· · · · · · · · ·
Past Grand Treasurers . · · · · · · ·
· · · · · · · · 1
·
·
·
Officers and Representa~i~e~ · . ·
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 925
Past Mast ers ..
·
Inspectors . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 500
11 6
P.M. Committee~~n· .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 232
Committeemen
. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 5
..
P.M. • Secretarie~ .
106·
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Masters of Other Jurisdictions
9
Grand Lodge Officers and Past Master~ ~r°Othe~ . · · · · ·
Jurisdictions (including 4 Past Grand Masters) .. ' . . · · 28
TOTAL
Master M~s·o~s· . . . . . . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 1.929
Secretaries . . . . · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 239
77
· ·
GRAND TOTAL
··· ··· · · · ··· ········ ··~

The Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia
The Grand Lodge of Yugoslavia
The Grand Lodge of Hungary
and the following States in Brazil :
The Grand Lodge Rio Grande de Norte
The Grand Lodge Maconica de Roraima
The Grand Lodge Estado de Sergipe
The Grand Lodge Estado de Mato Grosso
Also. this committee has received a request for recognition from the
Grand Lodge Maconica do Estado de Tocantins of Brazil, which also has
on
received approval of your committee as well as from the Commission
.
Masters
Grand
of
nce
Recognition from the Confere
A request for recognition has been received from the Gran Logia Del
Austro of Ecuador but recognition should not be granted because it has
been found to be an irregular Grand Lodge ··there already being a regular
Grand Lodge in Ecuador which has previously received recognition.

166

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

f .
Therefore, we move that ad t'
this repo~ ~nd affirmation of the
o.
i~nt
?P
grant
in
n
actio
er's
Mast
d
Gran
recognition to certain Grand
Lodges approved by this com~~~ in enm
eported to you by the Grand
Master in his report you heard this ~~r~~g.r

William H. Price, PGM, Chairman
James Graham

Reginald W. Winter

single action or

8 . lengthy or little understood terms;
C. annotations that do not interpret or modi

Respectfully submitted,
Lincoln B. Grayson

ribe a
A. the use of several different terms to desc
subject;

167

fy;

D. ambi guou s term s and provisions;
E. excess word ing;

Report ADOPTED.

F. lengt hy sentences and paragraphs;
G. duplicative and redundant provisions ; and

REP ORT OF THE SPECIAL COM MITT EE

H. excessive use of polysyllabic words.

ON COD E REVISION

.
of Ca 1·1
l!Orma:
To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodg e, F·& AM
. .
. .
at the 1988 Annual Co
h Pursu~nt to the mandate of the Craft
on,
nicat1
mmu
.
.
J'f
C
ed
t e comm ittee has prepared a revi
in
n
writte
Code
nic
a I ornia Maso
simple, understandable language. s
The

A.

·
three years , to:
committee has proceeded, during the past

eliminate ambiguities, redundancy and incon

sistencies;

8. simplify the wording;
C. reco nstitute sections into more logical sequ

ence; and

~han~::.iwise restructure the Code without making substantive
.
The committee utilized the coun 10 f th Comr:nittee on Jurisprudence
e
.
se
ch
e
tantiv
subs
to avoid making any
fanges in every instance where it found
interpretation necessary We th

~~~~ing changes in the .substan~: ~r~h~~!~~~t \~al~~~~:g~~~:~~;;:a~
Code so that th
The committee determined that to revise the
could understand it without legal counsel

;1~~neat~~~ber

ne:e:~~~~:

s that constituted substanProvisions of the Appendix and of annotation
were incorporated into
law
the
of
tive law rather than specific applications
sections.
with more logical connecSections have been regrouped into Articl es
made more desc riptive
been
have
ons
tions and capti ons of Articles and secti
and understandable.
numerous substantive
During the revision process the committee noted
desirable (for example, in the
changes that would be both necessary and
) . However. since we did not
area of pleas and proc edur e in Masonic trials
ges, we suggest that a Code
cons ider it our prerogative to make such chan
to suggest such revisions.
study
a
ence
Commission be appo inted to comm
tations, Grand Master's
The comm ittee believes that, rather than anno
not change Code sections
Decisions and Grand l odge actio n that does
should be placed in a "Use notes " appendix.
edition of the California
The com mittee is confident that this third
Ordinances that will be more
Maso nic Code will provide a Constitutio n and
of most ambiguities and interunderstandable, easier to use and devo id
pretation problems.
Masonic Code , to be
We move adop tion of the revis ed California
cation in 1992. This will provide
effec tive at the close of the Annual Communi
committees of Grand Lodge for
a one year period for review by appr opriate

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

any inadvertent errors or omis .
the 1992
whi~h ~an be corrected atprio
Annu~I Communication and wil~~~~= amp
r to its
tion
ribu
dist
for
e time
effective date.

AF TE RN OO N SESSION
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1991

168

Meanwhile the 1975 Ed't' ·ion (the red book) ·11 b
,
Cod d .
w1 e the California Masonic
e unng the ensuing Masonic year.
This motion has the concurren
ce
ce of the Committees on Jurispruden
and Policy and Genera/ Purposes.

·
R1cha
rd S. Andrews
Kenneth P. Elliott
Ralph M. Hinds

Respectfully submitted,
.
Jac k R. Levitt· PGM. Cha1rm
an

Harold S. Stein ' Jr.

Kenneth J. Brisbin
Ralph E. Enz
Melville H. Nahin

Report ADOPTED.

169

d on with the Grand Master presidAt 1:20 p.m. Grand Lodge was calle
and
mas C. Letcher, Leroy E. Bartels
ing. This session was raised by Tho
ely,
Warden and Junior Warden, respectiv
Jac k A. Parker, the Master. Senior
sion
gavels used during the afternoon ses
of South Bay Lodge No. 421. The
and
for the Grand Master by the 570th
were ones presented at a Reception
af
enle
asion of the 40th Anniversary of Gre
574th Masonic Districts. at the occ
enix
Pho
at the 125th Anniversary of
Lodge No. 670's Lodge building and
Lodge No. 178.
ing Grand Secretary Klinger two
The Grand Master presented to retir
ter
of which he read. The Grand Mas
beautiful testimonial plaques. each
a
with
ry
gnize the retiring Grand Secreta
asked those in attendance to reco
he
and
ry Klinger was visibly moved
standing ovation. Grand Secreta
te.
appropriately responded to this tribu
ver matters from 1990, Grand Master
Prior to the balloting on the Carry-o
h he
edures to be used, following whic
Sherod explained the voting proc
ee,
mitt
irman of the Jurisprudence Com
called upon Richard Riemer, Cha
the
ed
committee. He then introduc
who explained the functions of his
following was presented:
members of that committee, and the

.

ge, F.& A.M. of California:
To the Mos t Worshipful Gra nd Lod
ns
reviewed a total of 180 dispensatio
The Committee on Jurisprudence
.
year
onic
Mas
1990-1991
granted to constituent Lodges in the

p.m.

At 12:20 p m Grand Lod
me at 1:15
ge was called off with labor to resu
. .

ted to Lodges requesting to hold
Fifty-five dispensations were gran
parations were granted to Lodges to
special elections. Forty-five dispens
nt
t~ue
cons
to
ted
gran
e
wer
ensations
ticipate in Parades . Twenty-three disp
e.
plac
ting
mee
lar
regu
its
e other than
Lodges to open Lodge in a plac
e
to Lodges to confer d egrees in a plac
Nineteen dispensations were granted
ges
Lod
to
ted
gran
e
wer
dispensations
other than their Lodge. Sixteen
ensaof their Stated Meeting. Nine disp
date
the
allowing them to change
ns
atio
ens
disp
Five
.
rees
outd oor deg
tions were granted to Lodges to hold
e
Thre
.
ting
Mee
ed
Stat
the time of th eir
were granted to Lodges to change
r
othe
in
t
mee
to
them
g
ges permittin
dispensations were granted to Lod
ene destroy ed or unusable. Two disp
locations because their Lodges wer
in
alia
Reg
onic
Mas
r
wea
ge offic ers to
sations were granted permitting Lod
:
wing
follo
the
ted for each of
public. One dispensation was gran

1. P.e ting an Inspector
Meetingrmit
when the Master andP

~star:as
ter to preside at a Stated
ens

2. permitted a Lad g e

were all out of town·

to re·ballot on a rei·ected ball ot;

and '
3. permitting a ballot to confer
Forces without reference to o d
~gr st1gon.
a
mber of the Armed
ur mveee~
at1onme
commit
tee .
All . the dispensat' ·
. d 'th h
art''fornof
ions. complre
ia Ma
l1 . . .sonic Cod e. It 1s
C
~ icipatmg in civic parad also appawi th e appropriate Sect"ion of the
rent t at the constituent lad
this will translate in
often than in previous years.
ic awareness of Masonry
y'

increas~ mp~~·

Finally,

Ho~:~;re

we would be remiss n
for his assista
nce in these man

.
.
e~~ to give
our thanks to the Gra
nd Secreta

ry

Respectfully submitted,
Richard L. Riemer. ChaJrm
. an
Jerrold B. Braunstein
Charles W. Foster
James D. Johnson
Jack A. Levitt, PGM
Bruce l. Conroy, Adv iso r

Richard B. Eaton
Allen B. Gresham
Julius Kahn
Melville H. Nahin

UNFINISHED BUSINESS FR
OM 199 0
Pro pos ed Amendments to the

Ord ina nce s·
Tenure of Office . Legislation
Master Pavlovich's Aecom to b
..
de ~ons1dered Prospective (Gr
pgs . 44 , 45)
and
men ation No. 1, 1990 Pro
ceedings,

Adv
p ertising in East·west Foo
avtovich's Recommendationtball G
No 2ame Program (Grand Ma
46)
r
· • 1990 Proceedings, pgs. ste
45.
Invest nt of Funds of Grand
Listed me
by NASDAQ (ResolutiLon~ge
~nd Individual Lodges in Stock
257, 258, 259, 260. 261)
o. -14 , 1990 Proceedings, pgs
.

U.D. Lodges - Voting Rights
and Termination of Dispensat
ion
(Resolution No. 90· 16, 1990 Pro
ceedings. pgs . 263. 264. 265,
266.
267)
Masonic Participation as Com
munity Organization in Civic
and
Charitable Activities (Resolution
No. 90· 19, 1990 Proceedings.
pgs.
273,274, 275, 276)
Youth Activities - Lodges May
Sponsor and Provide Financial
Sup-port (Resolution NO . 90· 20. 199
0 Proceedings. pgs . 276 , 277
. 278)
Shortened Proficiency as Alte
rnate to Candidate' s Lecture (Re
solu·
tion No. 90-26, 1990 Proceedin
gs, pgs . 287 , 288, 289. 290 . 291
)
Use of Cipher Ritual at Practic
e Sessions (Resolution No. 90·
28,
1990 Proceedings, pgs . 296.
297 . 298)
Alternate life Membership
Plan (Resolution No. 90·31,
1990
Proceedings, pgs . 302 . 303 . 304
)
Deleting Handwriting Require
ments on Applications and Allo
wing
Signature or Mark (Resolution
No . 90·32, 1990 Proceedings.
pgs .
305. 306)
Pro pos ed Am end me nt to the
Constitution:
U.D. Lodges - Voting Rights
and Termination of Dispensat
ion
(Resolution No. 90.16, 1990 Pro
ceedings. pgs . 263. 264. 265 .
266.
267)

TENURE OF OFFICE - LEGISL
ATION
TO BE CONSIDERED PROS
PECTIVE
The Committee on Policy and

General Purposes:
It was the Grand Master's rec
ommendation th~ the limitati
on on years
of service be computed from
the 1989 Communica'f'ion rath
er than retroac ·
tively.

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
INVESTMENT OF FUNDS OF GRAND LODGE

Your Policy and General Purposes Committee opposed this last year.
feeling that Grand Lodge had expressed itself clearly in favor of greater
turn-over in our lnspectoral Corps, Committee personnel . and Committee
Chairmen. We noted, that in the case of Ritual personnel, it was permissible
to extend the period of service, "for the good of the Craft."

AND INDIVIDUAL LODGES IN STOCK LISTED
BY NASDAQ

(90-14)

C

In the intervening year, many of the changes in personnel have been
accomplished. There is even less reason for adopting this recommendation
now. We again recommend a "No" vote.
Recommendation NOT APPROVED.

ADVERTISING IN EAST-WEST
FOOTBALL GAME PROGRAM
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

Your Committee on Polic y and General Purposes, in recent years, has
been opposed to relaxing the restrictions of the California Masonic Code as
it relates to paid advertisements in Trestleboards and bulletins and other
publications of Masonic related organizations without adequate controls to
prevent abuses. This year's Committee is of the same opinion.
There is no question of the great work being done by the Shrine in their
Hospitals for Crippled Children and the Burn Institutes. The Shrine is to be
commended for this success.

'ttee on Policy and General Purposes:
nd Lodge and constituent Lodges be
omm1
This resolution pro~oses that Gra h NASDAQ (National Association of
·tted to invest their funds throug
)
S
perm1
Security Dealers Automated ystems .

The

G neral Purposes continues to reco~.
The Committee on Polley and e t'tuent Lodges should. if they wish
h h Grand Lodge and cons I
d . easonably safe securities.
.
mend that bot t e
invest their fun s in r
able,
to and are
ion verbally assure our Committee t~at
.
The proponents of t~1s resolu~n NASDAQ stocks carries no more n~k
·tt d as safe for any other security
the investment of Masonic funds
than investments in stocks currently perm1 e
investment of Masonic funds.
not have the financial expertise to
,
.
Our Committee believes it does f th lack of such expertise. your
evaluate those assurances. Be~afuse ~ ·iu~gments of the Grand Lodge
defers to the more in orm
.
Comm1tteet Committee this resolution's proponents.
·
lnvestmen
n constituent Lodge which has funds to
.
However. we behe~e that a y ble Investment Advisors.
invest should seek advice from capa
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

It is the opinion of this Committee that all Masons and Masonic Organizations in this jurisdiction should be treated equally. Whenever special
interest laws are passed. those laws give one group of members privileges
that are not shared by other groups. This is not in keeping with the long
standing policy of this Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master pointed out that it is unfortunate that the advertising
which is in violation of Masonic Code has gone unchecked. That prohibition
is still in effect and the practice should be curtailed.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No"
vote.
Recommendation NOT APPROVED.

U.0. LODGES - VOTING RIGHTS AND
TERMINATION OF DISPENSATION

(90-16)
d General Purposes:
,.
izes that two
The Committee on Po icy an
.
d General Purposes recogn
.
Your Committee on Poh~y a~ his Resolution: namely the automatic
important matters are co~bined in t e and secondly, the right of a ~odge
termination of a dispensation for a Lodgd .Lodge Annual Communication.
under dispensation to vote at the Gran

174

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

With regard to the termination of dispensation
for a Lodge, California
Masonic Code Section 2018 clearly calls for the
termination to take effect
on Octo ber 1st thus rendering a Lodge U.O., to
be non-existent durin g the
time of the Annual Communication of Grand Lodg
e, and its members who
do not hold dual or plural membership are releg
ated to the status of
non-affiliated Master Masons in good standing
(assuming no unmasonic
cond uct charges exist or are pending). This actio
n would cause a member
with non-affiliated Master Mason status to be inelig
ible to attend the Grand
Lodge Annual Communication under California Maso
nic Code Section 158.
Your Committee concurs that the law should be
changed to allow members
in good standing to attend Grand Lodg e.
However, point number 2 covering the right of a
Lodge U.O. to vote at
the Grand Lodge Annual Communication cause
s us some conc ern. A
dispensation is issued to a new Lodge as a trial
period during which time
said Lodge shall demonstrate qualification, provi
de necessary certificates
of proficiency, be clear of all indebtedness and exhib
it satisfactory evidence
of its Masonic capability before becoming a duly
chartered Lodge. Until
such time as Grand Lodge approves the issuing of
a charter to a Lodge U.D.,
that Lodge is considered a probationary Lodge, not
a duly chartered Lodge,
and therefore should not be entitled to vote in Gran
d Lodge until a charter
is issued.

Your Policy Committee opposed this resolution

. .
.
f the Committee that Lodges should
However. this year it is the.feehn~ ?t.
and more discretionary latitude
•
1es.
be more mvo1ved ·in community act1v1
. . t'
.
th extent of their own part1c
1pa ion.
should be given to Lod~e~ to de~er~rnneno: found
in the Cal ifornia Masonic
freeing them from the ng1d restrictions 'ty perce
ption of Masonry will be
Code . It is hoped that the commurn
enhanced by such involvement.
.
. A Lodge shoul d make sure that it.is
However, we add two caut10~1·rnes and also.
that such community
adequately insured for ~nX ~d~ed ia o~ for .Maso
nic
Youth
Groups.
involvement does not d1m1n1s supp
We recommend a "Yes" vote.
Resolution ADOPTED.

YOUTH ACTIVITIES - LODGES MAY
SPONSOR AND PROVIDE FINANCIAL
SUPPORT
(90-20)
The Committee on Polic y

MASONIC PARTICIPATION AS COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATION IN CIVIC AND CHARITABLE
ACTIVITIES
(90-19)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

This resolution provided that Lodges by majority
vote. could provide
support to community organizations or events,
either financially or with
manpower .

when presented last

year.

Because we cannot support both aspects of
this Resolution. your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes respe
ctfully recommends a
"No" vote.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

175

~nd General Pu:; s;:l:icy and General Purposes

On carry -over Resolution No. 90~~,~~· vote. We
believed that to ·:sponCommittee last year recommende~ d to assis
t non-Masonically oriented
sor" or to advance Mason!c Lod.ged unf s bl ems
for the constituent Lodg e.
groups, could lead to various km s o pro
sons set out in Resolution No. 90-19,
This year, for the broad -~eneral rea rt Resolution
No. 90-20 as good
we have changed our pos1t 1on to suppo
Masonic policy.
.
ittee recommends that the strict cautionAt the same time. your Comm
. 90 19 also be app1·1ed by any Lodge before proceedary measures set out in
. .".
ed under 90-20 if approved.
ing with permissible activ1t1es a11 ow
Your Committee on Policy and Gene ral Purposes
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

urges a "Yes" vote.

176

E
Y AS ALTERNATIV

OFICIENC
SHORTENED PR
LECTURE
TO CANDIDATE'S
(90- 26 )
Po
The Committee on

lic

os es :
y an d Genera/ Pu rp

ction 2668 of the
seek to amend Se
ion
lut
so
Re
is
th
ing advancement the
The proponents of
ing the Brother seek

17 7

CALIFORNIA
GRANO LODGE OF

THE
PROCEEDINGS OF

on~n t's
the prop
on whetdhemr ee
hin es up
tings? If it is,
tile
a
n
io
ss
~e
an ~m.endm~~tice
ld be adopted.
The need fo r such
the resolution shou
nd
P
a
rs
rs,
that
the amendment
rem ise is correct:
tiled meeting, then
a
ion to ou r
t is
phen the amendmen
as a confusing addit
fed
a
t
no
is
ion
ss
se
e
iec
if a practic
and should be re
is not necessary,
t'

unn~ce~sary.

~owever,
Code .

rce
re veals that prac

Code e not tiled meetings
tion, ar
uc
~~
l~
o:
0~
t1
na
mi
a
.
ex
efore
an
t
tha
ve
lie
be
We
amendment is ther
.

~~~.sa~d that the

Code by giv
erely learning
Camornia Masonic
idate's lecture or m
nd
ca
the
in
t
en
ici
of
ming pr es of recognition.
option of becoan
d m od

ector.s S~
ions, such as ln~p
rn Section
sess
as that term is used

ce of learning or
e Brother the choi
th
e
giv
to
s
ek
se
whether he shall
Since the Resolution
ch oi ce of ho w and
the
him
e
giv
o
als
r
no
no t learning, wh y lar Masonic customs?
perform other regu
it is the option of
ing his proficiency
rn
lea
y
ult
fic
dif
s
at op tio n fro m the
If a Brother no w ha
nf or m. To shift th
co
ld
ou
sh
he
w
ho
able educational
th e Master as to
neither an accept
is
te
ida
nd
ca
e
th
r to
tory of treating all
Worshipful Maste
t with Masonry's his
en
ist
ns
co
is
at
th
tive
nars
.e
erhe
altot
uarllyon
eqno
Br
ds a "N o" vote.
mmittee recomm en
Co
es
os
rp
Pu
l
ra
ne
The Policy and Ge
OPTED.
Resolution NOT AD

no
ically rtcrrs
becausen typ
etary,
Se
meetings ar
e
th
.
by
ke
ta
e
te
is not a tried minu
ty .
A practice session
d no Til er is on du
an
r
te
gis
re
s
~·
~
·
sr
~e
gr
d~
e
thre
r
ed in on e of the
open
eir names rn t e
no one records th
and for
a shorthion
is simply
m etin ~h" at
ss s ar e
se
e
".
tic
ac
pr
d~ubt
de . the te~m tried
As used in ou r Co

the obligation

. .

t

unnecessary.

,;~~
::
h:
n\
~:
~=
~e
~h
j:
s
~,
';
~~
h:
~~
~c
:~
~;
~~
!;
st
~ys~~:,yo~o:'uen~~dm~";,en~~it is~~~un;·necessary. . . with allbeofliethvee thacatcothme-

~;'!:ias.disinwecentive to regular
e:
i~
e session is a spec~;
tic
ac
pr
a
a~
!~
;~
of
;,
'; ng formalities which a special "':: woCld be
m

;,.~enyidment would lead cotorpcos.nf~souronr ;~!icy and General Purposes Commrtam .
b 0 ur officer d a "N o" vote.
• mmen s
tices orY
practh
tee eref e reco
OPTED.
Resolution NOT AD

RITUAL AT
USE OF CIPHER
IONS
PRACTICE SESS

AN
MEMBERSHIP PL
A l TERNATE LIFE
(90-31)

(90-28)
Po
The Committee on

lic y an d General Pu

rp os es:

her rituals. it makes
itted to possess cip
rm
pe
The
e
ar
en
hr
et
actice sessions.
No w that the Br
ciphers at ritual pr
ch
su
tof
ee
m
e
d
us
e
tile
th
e
ssions ar
sense to permit
at such practice se
th
s
e
ve
lat
lie
vio
be
e
ly
or
nt
ef
re
wo ul d ther
proponent appa
r at such a session
he
he
y,
cip
gl
a
in
of
rd
e
co
us
e
Ac
ings, and that th
at tiled meetings.
n against ciphers
at practice sesrs
he
cip
w
ou r law's prohibitio
lo
ecificall y al
sp
to
w,
la
at
th
d
prop
. es to amen
nsos
sio

rposes:
isions
. an d General Pu
'de alternative prov
t
y
lic
Po
v1
to proem
plans._ Pr_e~en ;
1 · seek life
hip
The Committee on
rs
be
m
on rnd rvrdua
this reso utron I of
The proponents of ts fo r appr~va in lo dg es are based
en
irem
$2 50 , ~;-o
to our current requ
life membershi p is
um
·m
rp~
~h
er
mb
fo r life me
ices u?.:
I purchase fees
dues. Purchase pr

z~ge
~inimum

~:a~~~al
$~~01:~11

e~

$25?.$
would re1 $750 .
dues and a base of
$24 annual dues um
us
Th
r
~r
price o
s~
ba
m a
d $36 dues a m in im
is calculated froas
e.
es
du
of age.
s
ely
roportionat
purchasers regardles
of
ice
pr
se
ha
purc uld be applrca e
Such prices wo

179

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IA
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN

'.he Life Membership Plan ro
Reso1ur
t posed a~ ~n alternative by this
provides that the calculation
payments ~~~
~~,:i~o~~rnnimum lump sum
ld
members age 49 and under
e same. Such payments wou
.
thereafter decline by bracketed age scale as the ages of newly part· . at1n
g
1c1p
members increase ·

for con e submitted on a timely basis
The following Resolutions wer
bers 5, 12,
Communication . Resolution num
sideration at the 1991 Annual
drawn prior to balloting.
15, 17, 27, 28 and 31 were with

178

,P

e.
Even though this plan doe s mak
er
~ mo~e di~icult for a younger memb
Life
a
se
cha
pur
to
e
hav
than an ?Id er one
ers
mb
me
em ersh1p, younger
greater life expectancy.

.
.
We b eI'ieve that adoption of this Re
will encourage more older
n
t1o
s~~
mb
Me
Life
in
ate
m~m~ers to particip
pla~s because the purchase
ers
ther s
pric e is mo re equitable. Fur
the lod g
rt.t uch part~1pat1on will benefit
es
m both their long term and sh o erm financial situations.

ip.

Your Committee on Pol'
in recommends
icy and General Purposes aga
s" vote.
"Ye
a
Resolution ADOPTED

QUIREMENTS
DELETING HANDWRITING RE
OWING
ON APPLICATIONS AND ALL
SIGNATURE OR MARK
(90-32)
General Purposes:
The C~mm ittee on Policy and
lut·ion would remove the r
.
This reso
.
i~em~.nt that an application for
ehqu
own
te's
dida
can
the
in
be
p
t the
n:iembersh1
k an writing , and provide tha
signature could be by an attested mar .
.
Your committee has concern
g the is~ue of literacy, but we felt
d1n
gar
~~~
rea
d
that there were oth er goo
g able to
own ~ ~ a. ~and1date not bein
complete an application in his
l impairsica
phy
as
a Wntmg , s~ch
e cl
ment. We feel that Grand lod
want
not
did
it
that
lf
expressed itse
go~ men kept out of the Frate~nit earlyaus
feel
We
ns.
ditio
con
l
e ?f physica
th
and
~he is~ue of literacy can beWleft tot~ebec
ge
lod
the
of
on
reti
sound disc
e
·
investigative procedure · e recommend a "Ye s.. vote.
Resolution ADOPTED.

MODIFIES THE PROFICIENC

Y MEMORIZATION REQUIRE

MENTS

(91 -01 )
rization
ion seek to reduce the memo
The proponents of this Resolut
obligaproficiency in each degree to the
requirements for the Candidate's
ng an underquestions and answers indicati
tion, modes of recognition , and
.
ree without including procedure
standing of the ritual of the deg
Lod ge, F.& A.M. of California :
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand
in society
time is a very important priority
WHEREAS , the effective use of
Masonic
the
by
ted
duc
ey of non -Masons con
today, substantiated in the surv
t nearly
tha
d
foun
ch
whi
d by MSA in 1989,
Renewal Task Force and reporte
s either
son
rea
e
wer
d that shortages of time
2/3's of those surveyed indicate
n; and
atio
aniz
org
an
to
y 5 hours per month
for not joining or committing onl
imately
in California shows that approx
WHEREAS . recent experience
the
ting
ple
com
ore
bef
Masons dro p out
22% of the Entered Apprentice
Master Mason Degree ; and
on the
responding to a 1988 survey
WHEREAS, acc ord ing to those
they
said
out
d
ppe
dro
ia 75% of those who
health of Freemasonry in Cal iforn
rize
mo
me
to
ary
ess
nec
rt
rd the time and effo
did "because they could not affo
and
time
less
if
ed
tinu
they would have con
the Degree work."; 86% said
and
;
d
study had been require
ers ,
ey 2/3's of the Grand lod ge offic
WHEREAS , in the same 1988 surv
nded canectors who responded recomme
committeemen and district Insp
sis should
pha
em
re
mo
t
d or modified and tha
didate memory wor k be reduce
didate; and
be placed on educating the can
nces of
of the Committee on Confere
WHEREAS, the 1990 report
a similar opinion; and
Younger Members expressed
Planning
1990 report of the Long Range
WHEREAS , that portion of the
morization
ucing candidate proficiency me
Committee recommending red
nry was
aso
em
Fre
of
and understanding
and increasing their knowledge
ire.
nna
stio
que
responding to the
endorsed by over 75% of those

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOL
r VEO t~at new prof icien cy exam inat1ons rega rding the degr ees be re
~ ed, whic h exam inati ons will require
that the Brot her repeat the oJ:g
d dem onst rate the mod es of
recognitio~ of the high est degr ee ~~~hanhas
been conf erre d upo n him .
toge ther with ques tions and a nswe rs that shall · d ·
d ·
. in icate an unde rstan ding
d
an inter pret ation of the ritual of the
egre e with out inclu ding proc edur e;
and
.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that th
.
tions and answ ers shall be
ques
~
!Ted
exem
as
e
tanc
subs
in the form and
11
efore Gran d Lodg e at this Ann ual
p
Com mun icati on.

GRAND LOD GE OF CALIFORNIA

181

FELLOWCRAFT:
red the Lodg e and wha t
How were you received whe n you ente
was the significance?
was the sign ifica nce?
What did you first obse rve and wha t
ns?
How do Fello wcra fts wea r their Apro
n to the Lodg e?
retur
your
on
What happ ened to you
a Fello wcra ft?
of
ls
What are the three prec ious jewe
y calle d and wha t was the
To wha t was your atten tion espe ciall
significance?

Q

Q
Q
Q
Q
Q

MASTER MASON:
Res pect fully subm itted
,
480
No.
E. Arth ur Hag lund, PM
Larr y R. Ard, PM No. 41
259
Stan ley L. Cha nnon , PM No.
Don H. Freitas, PM No. 480
Jack R. Levitt, PM No. 35
Ralph H. Head, PM No. 352
Leo B. Mar k, PM No. 10
Haro ld A. Mac y, PM No. 769
Ray mon d A. Young, PM No. 499
Rod ney 0 . Wine berg , PM No. 436

.
'.he ques tions that shall indicate an un
and inter pret ation of
rn~
tand
ders
Onl
ws
follo
as
are
ee
degr
the :rtual of the
are pres ente d f or
tions
ques
the
y
.
.
·
obvi ous reasons. The a nswe rs are eithe r th
. .
ose in the pres ent set of
.
profic1ency ques tions and an swe rs or rn the lectu re of the d
egree.

Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q

ENTERED APPRENTICE :
.
How were you cloth ed d
is the sign ifica nce?
t
wha
an
nd
aro
was
t
Wha
your neck and why ?
u
.
How were you rece ived whe n
ente red the Lodg e and
first
you
nce?
ifica
sign
the
was
wha t
Why were you ca ed
bene fit of prayer?
Wha t was then as~:d y~ kne; I f~r the
was the sign ifica nce?
How were you plac ed at ~ha~ltw at
wha t was the sign ifica nce?
Wha t are the three grea t lig~ts ~r~nd
ry and why are they
ason
give n to us?
W" h
and wha t is it deem ed?
r their Apro ns?
wea
ices
App rent
Wh
.
at dem and was mad e of you?

H~~ ;:~n~::~you pres~nted

Q

Q
Q
Q
Q
Q

red the Lodg e and wha t
How were you rece ived whe n you ente
was the sign ifica nce?
was the sign ifica nce?
What did you first obse rve and wha t
ns?
How do Mas ter Mas ons wea r their Apro
the Lodg e?
to
n
retur
your
on
What happ ened to you
ial?
otor
What emb lems are not mon
Of wha t do they remi nd us?

The Committee on Juris prud ence :
1 seek to redu ce the mem oriza The prop onen ts of Res oluti on No. 91-0
prof icien cy in each degr ee to the
tion requ irem ents for the Can dida te's
ques tions and answ ers indic ating an
oblig ation , mod es ofo reco gniti on, and
ee with out inclu ding proc edur e.
unde rstan ding of the ritual of the degr
Con stitu ent Lodg es is adeq uate
The legis latio n as distr ibute d to the
carr y out the inten t of the prop onen ts.
Ritual and a 5/6
This Reso lutio n seek s to ame nd our
requ ired for adop tion.

to

affirmative vote is

Purp oses :
The Com mitte e on Poli cy and Gen eral
seek to mod ify and limit degr ee
The prop onen ts of this reso lutio n
idate 's mem orizi ng the oblig ation s and
prof icien cy requ irem ents to the cand
on of the high est degr ee conf erre d
dem onst ratin g the mod es of reco gniti
pret ation of the ritual of the degr ee
upo n him, toge ther with ques tions inter
with out inclu ding proc edur e.
requ irem ents for the three degr ees
The ques tion of redu cing prof icien cy
Lodg e annu ally sinc e 1988; first. as
has been pres ente d to this Gran d
, then as a carr y-ov er ln 1989. and
reco mme ndat ion by Gran d Mas ter Mark
ns in 1989 and 1990.
agai n in the form of seve ral reso lutio

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Committee on Policy and General Purpo
ses recognizes that we
are having problems in the acquisttion and reten
tion of candidates. We
conc ede that our present proficiency requireme
nts proba bly contribute, in
some degre e. to these problems. And we certa
inly agree there is a great
need to improve our progr ams for candidate educ
ation . However, there are
a numb er of other factors which contribute to our
difficulties in getting the
retaining candidates and we are not convinced
that the virtual elimination of
the profic iency requirements would have any positi
ve impa ct towar d solving
these probl ems.

,
. t
require the candidate to
Let's fact the facts of today s soc1e Y Iand 'ng
.
·
possible to rote earrn · Rather· we should
comm it as little time
as
I
concentrate our efforts in the other , ess b u rdensome avenues of Masonic
k' •
education which are alrea dy in place and are wor
ing.

We are also conc erned that adoption of this Reso
lution in its present
form would incor porat e the proposed questions
into the Masonic Code.
This means that revision or elimination of these
questions, or the addition of
new ones . could only be accomplished by a 5/6th
s vote of Grand Lodg e.
Finally, the candidate 's proficiencies are a part
of the adop ted ritual of
the Grand Lodg e and cann ot be altered or delet
ed unless Section 2690 of
the California Maso nic Code is revised or delet
ed. This Section provides
that "Grand Lodge alone has the power to chan
ge ritual for the purpo se of
having it remain as it was handed down from time
immemorial."
We cann ot ignore the restriction of this section
. For all of the reasons
stated, we must recommend a "No" vote.
The Committee on Ritual:
The Ritual Committee supports the conc ept of a
shortened candidate' s
profic iency. We demo nstrated our posttion when
we endorsed Resolution
90-26 , both last year and this.
Resolution 91-1, while providing a shorter profic
iency , merely exchanges one set of memorized questions and answ
ers for another set . It sill
does not effectively acco mmo date the limited time
a potential candidate is
willing to spend . Can we really afford to conti nue
to waste time experimenting with half-way measures?
We hope you recog nize that this resol ution
would require every
candidates' coach in California to forget everything
he knows and learn new
questions and answers before he could continue
coaching. I wond er how
many of our long-time coaches would be willin
g to continue unde r those
circumstances.

The Committee on Ritual must recommend a "No"

183

vote.

Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

OMIT MON ITOR IAL PORTIONS OF CAND IDAT

ES PROFICIENCY

(91-02)
· · I portio ns
The proponents of this Resolution seek to hav~
~he morntona
of the Candidate's lectures omitted from each profic
iency .
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M.

of California:
WHEREAS , everyone seems to be concern ed with time to such an
vet· and
extent that it is affecting our ritual to an unaccepta
ble le ,
WHEREAS, we need a way to a~pease th ose who want to save time
with a minimal impact on our sacred ritual: and
•
. .
rth orkin g for and whatever
WHEREAS, anything worth havin
g IS .wo . w
.
is given to us too easily we do not appreciate, and
h . ·scfctions in the United States
WHEREAS, prec~ent is set i~.o~ ::~~~ th~profici
encywith a minimal
which allow the following change w ic .
f
't
I
impa ct on the meaning, form, symbolism o our
n ua .
REFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Ritual be
amended to
NOW , THE
. '
Candidate's Lectures in all the degrees
provide that th.os~ portions of .the h a ron and
the worki ng tools. shall not
which are monitonal and ~escnbe t e rtpof the variou
s proficiency examinabe required to be memorized as a pa
tions .
Respectfully submitted,
John A. Scheich, SW No. 378

Jesse w. White, PM No. 378

The Committee on Juris prude nce:
. .
.
N 91-02 seek to have the monitonal
The propo nents of Resolution o. 'tted from each
proficiency.
portions of the Candidate's lectures om1
.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI

.
The legislation as distributed to
ent Lodges is adequate to
stitu
Con
~~e
ent
pon
carry out the intent of the pro

me
ry is religious in nature and a Volu
WHEREAS, the ritual of Freemason
h
eac
of
r
Alta
the
ern our faith, rests upo n
of Sacred Law , to rule and gov
New
and
Old
the
y Bible. a combination of
Lodge and, in California is the Hol
use of
of each of these individually and
use
of
Testaments , to the exclusion
religions ; and
those volumes sacred to differing

184

.
!his Resolution seeks to am
at·
our Ritual and a 5/6 affir.....
end
.,, 1ve vote is
n
ptio
ado
for
d
require
.
The Committee on Pol icy and Gene ral Purposes.
..
The Policy and General Pur os
ee has consistently exmmm
-C?
pre~sed opposition to changes su~ a:~ '~ rn order that the ritual will remain
n form the tim
~s it_ w~s handed dow
e immemorial T0 rem
onttorral portions of th Ca .
all degrees, not
a minuscule tim :
ove important elements
rem
ou
ki~ tool
be ~ e~rees , including the wor
would
ef san d the apron. The imp act
a ess Informed Mason. We, ther ore, recommend a "No"
vote.

r~i~~~~·s~~tc~re~Jn

~~~~It ~n

i;,~ ~~~~~

T.

he Committee on Ritual:

.
.
.~ we have said, the Commrtt
ee on Artual is in favor of ash ortened
prof1c1ency·
.
In case neither of th e other two Aeso/uti
will be
ons is adopted, this Resolut'ron
.
a small step in the right d'irectron
. The Committee on Art" uaI recommends a "Yes" vote ·

g to
n used for the purpose of swearin
WHEREAS, the Hol y Bible, whe
lar
ticu
par
his
of
e
to a Candidate becaus
the obligations, may be non-binding
not
is
act
d
date
man
discomfort of such
religion or faith, and whereby the
.
ts of tolerance and brotherly love
cep
consistent with the Masonic con
onic
OLVED that the California Mas
NOW, THEREFORE , BE IT RES
ws:
follo
as
read
tion 268 8.1 thereto, to
Code be amended by adding Sec
d
rees in Masonry may be oblioate
§2688, 1. A candidate for the deg
of
be
ll
sha
s
ting
ice, The Holy Wrt
upo n the Hol y Writinos of his cho
uire ment of the ritual. and shall
req
the
to
sufficient size to conform
n
ge Bible for the entire deoree whe
be substituted for the regular Lod
ice
cho
of
t
rioh
this
the candidate of
used. The Secretary shall noMy
Writinos shall be provided by the
y
Hol
The
prior to bis initiation.
candidate.
Respectfully submitted,
Ralph S. Dunn, PM No. 639

Resolution NO T ADOPTED.

PROVIDES FOR OB UG A TION OF CAN DID A TES ON
HO Ly WRITINGS OF CHOICE
(91- 03)
ion
. The pro pon ent of this Resolut
ch~i~:~s to allow a candidate to be
his
of
obligated on the Hol y Writings
.
ge F & AM
To the Mo st Worshipful Gra nd Lod
· · Of Ca!tfornia:
.
'
WHEREAS
• Freemasonry is n t .
.
onl
o '". ar:<J of itself a religion, but
ef
y
requires a beli in a Supreme Bein g, belref rn an after-life and adh
erence to
the moral precepts comm on to all religions ; and

. WHEREAS, Freemasonry
~~::~es active participation in the part1cular religion of one's choice, beu
ot espouse a specific religion; and

185

ce:
The Committee on Juri spru den
te to be
91-0 3 seeks to allow a candida
The proponent of Resolution No.
his choice.
obligated on the Hol y Writings of
te to
the Constituent Lodges is adequa
The legislation as distributed to
ent s.
carry out the intent of the propon
is
our law and a 5/6 affirmative vote
This Resolution seeks to amend
required for ado ptio n.
eral Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and Gen
Holy
candidate to be obligated on the
Resolution 91- 3 seeks to allow a

Writings of his choice.
the Grand Lod ge on several
This subject has com e before
7.
occasions, most recently in 198

previous

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR
NIA

The universality of Freemaso
nry is one of the attributes wh
ich set this
fraternity apart from many oth
er fraternal organizations. A
man's religious
preference is never questioned
. All that is required of an app
licant is that he
express a belief in a Supreme
Being.

ree w1'th a bOOk that's too
. worl<'? If he comes to h'is deg
.
t r the degree illegal1y
our esotenc
.
Lod e has d'II emma·. should it con e
small. a . g d thea can
didate awaf?
or should it sen
ht membership in our
.
. d that the candidate has sou
g
(3) Keep in m1~
tree will and accord. oes that give him the
Fraternity of his ow n
on which he receives our deg rees?
.
right to dictate the terms
ed during a
..
.
We know that the Ho ly ~rit1ngm cannot be chang
~st be used through the clos1ng
(4)
of
ed at opening
.
if they were
degree; the on~:ge handle
mu
ltipl
e c_andidat~s ly Book? Both
Ho w could a
h brought his own o .
different religions and eacbli
ated in the same evening.
candidates could not be o g

186

As a matter of interest and
precedent, we are informed
that when
Rudyard Kipling received the
degrees of Masonry in Lahore
, lnida, there
were no less than five different
Holy Writings adorning the alta
r.
The Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recognizes
that the
number of occasions on which
the practice of substituting som
e other Holy
Writing for the Holy Bible will
be relatively few. The Commit
tee also recognizes that the adoption of this
Resolution will open up other
questions of a
peripheral nature with respec
t to references to the Bible in
the ritual and the
installation ceremony . The Com
mittee believes that these can
be handled
adequately as special situatio
ns by the Ritual Committee .
The Committee on Policy and
General Purposes feels that the
adoption
of this Resolution is in the bes
t interest of fraternal harmony.
We note that
the last sentence of the propos
ed Resolution states that "The
Holy Writings
shall be provided by the can
didate ." It is our understandin
g that. if this
Resolution is adopted, Lcx:tge
s would continue to follow the
established
practice for furnishing the Ho
ly Bible, except when the can
didate requests
the use of his own Bible or oth
er Holy Writings.
The Committee endorses the

Resolution and recommends
a "Yes"

vote.

The Committee on Ritual:

Over the course of many years,
we have repeatedly had this issu
e before
us. In every instance. you hav
e seen the problems and ant
icipated the
difficulties, and have rejected
the Resolutions. We ask that
you do so once
again, for the following reason
s.

(1) For our purposes. the Holy Bib
le is symbolic of all Ho ly Writing
s.
The Gcx:t it represents is the
one God shared by all monot
hei
stic
religions. Our oaths are not tak
en on a boo k, but are taken bef
ore
that Gcx:t. Many eminent non
-Christian theologians have fou
nd
no
religious compromise in our
symbolic use of the Ho ly Bib
le,
and
have recommended against cha
nging.
(2) This Resolution requires the
candidate to furnish his own
Holy
Writings, which must be of suf
ficient size to satisfy our ritual
requirements. Ho w do we explain tha
t size to him without divulging
part of

.
Ritual recommend s a "No" vote.
mit
tee
on
The com
·

Wbe~~~ert ed by
nsideration that this probl~m cobu
we add as a co
\' use of Holy Bible. o th on the petition form
an explanation ?f our. symbO
ic
and during the interviews.

Resolution NOT ADOPTED .

G FLAG AT PRESENTATION
MODIFIES MANNER OF CA
RRYIN
(91-04)
the Ritual and the
·
eek to amend
nents of this Resolution
· r ed
s
the
f\ag with the staff me
The propo .
in
t the Marshal is to carry
Monitor to provide tha . 't at
the opening of the Lodge.
d when presenting I
forwar
.
F.& AM. of California :
.
st
Worshipful Gra nd Lod ge,
To the Mo
.
nted the instruction
c ntry 1s prese
WHEREAS, when t.he f\ag of
~i~~r·~~anual . directs the· staff be bOrn e
53 of the Monitor and 0
on Page
.
r . and
in a perpendicular ca ry.
nd' lar carry. the flag is
ff .
WHEREAS, when the sta s~:t b rne in perpe icu
. f rm and
t osignificantly concealing its
o
enfolded closely around the
.
beauty from view .

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RES
OLVED that the instructions in resp
ect
to the manner in which the Mar
shal is to carry the flag at the ope
ning of the
Lodge as they appear in the par
enthetical provisions on Page
53 of the
Monitor and Officer's Manual be
amended to read as follows:
(i.e. the flag should be borne by
the Marshal et a ~f~eAaieular eef
l')'
with the staff inclined forward. righ
t hand over left)
Respectfully submitted,
Harold L. Jensen, PM No. 442
The Committee on Jur ispr ude

Gary Glen Parks, WM No. 442

nce :

The proponents of Resolution No.
91-04 seek to amend the Ritual
and
the Monitor to provide that the
Marshal is to carry the flag with
the staff
inclined forward when presenting
it at the opening of the Lodge.
The legislation as distributed to
the Constituent Lodges is adequa
te to
carry out the intent of the propon
ents.
This Resolution seeks to amend
our Ritual and a 5/6 affirmative
vote is
required for adoption.
The Committee on Pol icy and

General Purposes:

It has long been the policy of this
Grand Lodge to refrain from cha
nging
long standing practices without
compelling reasons.
The Flag of the United States as
presently carried into the Lodge,
does
not conceal its form and beauty
any more than it does when it is
displayed
in the East in the appropriate plac
e and manner.
No compelling reason has bee
n put forth to support changes
to long
standing practice of this Grand
Lodge, therefore your Committee
on Policy
and General Purposes recomme
nds a "No" vote.
The Committee on Ritual:

One of the goals in our ritual inst
ruction is uniformity. We hope tha
t our
ceremonies will be the same thro
ughout our Jurisdiction. That's
one of the
reasons we ask that the Flag
be carried vertically. There can
be little
misunderstanding about "straigh
t up and down." The undefined
"staff inclined forward " in the Resolution
provides no direction or control
of the angle
at which it would be carried .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN
IA

189

We can anticipate other problem
s:
. ed
dies as lesser
(1) A surprising numbe~ of L~g:~ t'll use hght can
~~v
eme
nt of the flag staff could
.
A draft or an urnnten ion
hghts.
fl 'nto the open flame.
easily blow the ag '
. .
flag at an angle. It it dipped
(2) It requires more~trength to carry a
G t Lights or
low it could easily obscure or disarrange our rea
too
~II them onto the floor.
even P
d we see no
worked well for many years.'
an
The vertical carry has it now
The Committee on Ritual rec ommends
compelling reason to change
.
a "No" vote.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

SEEKS RE~~~~~~~~::~;~~:s;;p::~:ltlAtlCIAL
(91*05)
.
ek to have this Grand ~od~e
The proponents of this Resolu
tlo~r~:nt bodY of Masonry in Cahforn1~
recognize the Sisters ol Hira;.' a:~
~~~~ncial support thereof by Lodges o
and to authorize sponsors ip
this jurisdiction.
.
F & A.M . of California:
To the Mo st Worshipful Gra nd Lod
ge, .
h' consists of the widows
.
WHEREAS, the Sisters o~ Hg1~~'s members 1p
standing ; and
of deceased Master Masons in
.
· Northern
of Sisters ol Hira
m in
WHEREAS , there are five Cha
pters Santa Cruz. Sonoma, Sant~
R~~
California, listed i~ ord~r of nu~
!~ :;~~nthly tor fellowship and soc1ab1llty
and Paradise, California , who
.
since 197 2; and
· ed by the
.
HEREAS , the Sisters of Hiram would like to be recogn1z
nt body throughout the ~ta~e of
W
f California as a concorda
Grand ~odge o
nsored and supported by each Lodge in its D1stnct.
California and be spa
G nd Lodge of
NOW THEREFORE •. BE ITf ~ErSOLVED that the ra
am
. as a concordant bodY of Masonry
California 'recogrn·ze the Sisters o nl
in California.

19( )

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ED t
tion 23
BE I~ FU RT HE R RE SO LV
hat the las t par agr aph of Sec
b
de
Co
22
ic
son
d:
of the Cal ifor nia Ma
rea
e am end ed to
The foll ow ing exp end it
sha.11 be dee me d to be
of
for the
~rrbutions to Mason;.
th org ani zat io cou rse , ?on 1ons to Ch
~Uy affiliated you
byt
ntn
_co
ns.
-- __ aoters_Qf
.Sisters of Hiram.. and a /so con trib uti
.
e of a dis trk t
ens
on a~r;; to the exp
~sso~ation breakfast or lun che
a din ner for
or
ge
lod
d
th . . ran
ast . asters of the Lod ge and err wrves at an ann ual Past M ers
ast
meeting.

~r:>motion fra~~~~~l~~~~g othe~s.

LV E
.BE IT FU RT HE R RE SO
as
d
rea
add ing Sec tion 221 9 to

fof~::~t

.
ed by
said Co de als o be am end

9 A laj -- Y resolution. ma y s nso r a Ch apt er of ~
t
1
- - _po
s~1
IS ers of Hiram..
ae h

J

Respectfully sub mit ted
ack R. Sargent, PM No. 124

.

Jef frey G. De sm et · MN o. 124
.
H
A
John · artm g PM N 124
0.
'

Re sol utio n WITHDRAWN.

TE RS OF HIR AM
SE EK S AD OP TIO N OF SIS
M
GR AN D LO DG E PR OG RA

(91-06)
.
Th~ pro pon ent s of this Aesol ut1o
n see k to hav e the Gra nd

ow
Lod ge
Lod
Co mm itte e on Ma son ic Wid
s Pro gra m ado pt as a Gra nd
P
"
am
Hir
of
gra m
ters
pro
ge
"Sis
the
use by th L
rog ram and enc our age its
e odg es of this
juriSdi ctio n.
F
nd Lo d
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l Gra
.& A.M. of Ca lifor nia :
ge,
.
WH ER EA S ·rr h
.
f
·
des
a
n
as bee
ma n
,
rre o this Gra nd Lod ge for
t
Y Years to
enc our age the con stit uen
s
ow
wid
a
e
hav
to
Lod ges
pro gra m to fos ter
fraternal relationsh· be twe en wid ow s of Mast M
Ip
er asons; and

GRANO LODGE OF CALIF

ORNIA

191

ste r Ma son s Clu b
that des ire a Wid ow s of Ma
WH ER EA S, as a result of
nam e "Sisters of
Na pa and the y ado pte d the
wa s form ed dur ing 1975 at
ste r Ma son s of
Ma
of
hip is ex1ended to wid ow s
Hir am No. 1"; the ir me mb ers
any juri sdi ctio n; and
hav e no ritual ; to
pos es of this Clu b are : To
WH ER EA S, the sta ted pur
car ry out Gra nd
to
for the Ma ste r of the Lod ge
pro vid e an exc elle nt veh icle
tha t the wid ow s
and
ms des ired by the Ma ste r
Lod ge pro gra ms plu s pro gra
ivit
act ies of a "fun and
wit h one ano the r and pla n
cou ld enter into frie nds hip
t the pre sen ce of the
r of the Lod ge can req ues
do" nature; als o, the Ma ste
on the wid ow of a
om pan y him while cal ling
President of the Clu b to acc
Mason; and
rec ent ly dec eas ed Ma ste r
. 1" six1een mo re
ion of "Sisters of Hir am No
WH ER EA S, sin ce the inc ept
e pur pos es and
sam
in California all hav ing the
Clu bs have bee n form ed
nam e "Sisters of Hir am "; and
by or nee ded
end enc e has bee n offe red
WH ER EA S, no financial dep
ugh t aga ins t
bro
t
sui
has the re been a sin gle law
from a con stit uen t Lod ge nor
bs.
any me mb er of the se Clu
any Tem ple Ass oci atio n by
nd Lod ge ado pt,
IT RE SO LVE D tha t this Gra
NO W, TH ER EF OR E, BE
Co mm itte e on
the
by
m, to be administered
as a Gra nd Lod ge pro gra
enc our age its
and
m
, a "Sisters of Hir am " pro gra
Ma son ic Wid ow s.P rog ram
juri sdi ctio n.
use by the Lod ges of this

Willard G. Burris, PM

Re spe ctfu lly sub mit ted ,
No . 782
Lou is G. Carsner, Jr., PM
No. 12

rud enc e:
The Co mm itte e on Jur isp
e the Gra nd Lod ge
tion No. 91-06 seek to hav
The pro ponents of Res olu
nd Lod ge pro gra m
ow s Pro gra ms ado pt asa Gra
Co mm itte e on Ma son ic Wid
the Lod ges of this
m and enc our age its use by
the "Sisters of Hir am" pro gra
juri sdi ctio n.
is ade qua te to
d to the Co nst itue nt Lod ges
The leg isla tion as distrib ute
pro pon ents.
car ry out the intent of the
ma jori ty affirmk to am end our law and a
This Resolutio n doe s not see
for ado ptio n.
ativ e vot e onl y is req uire d

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

eral Purposes:
The Committee on Poli cy and Gen
.
t r'
The widows' programs which have h ived and garned prominence in
recent years, have grown in strength
~s a result of the type of our Grand
Lodge Committee's assistance to th
ws
:s odge~ to ~ev~op their own wido
program through their own initiativ
be
ld
wou
, and •magrnat1ons which
appropriate to each individual Lod
ome
~es chara~ter. The Lodges welc asd
that kind of "no pressure" help U
orm ~pec1fics or forced instructions
to how to do so or types of . n
ided .
t: their ~ctivitie~ was carefully avo
What might be ~ppropriate i~r~~~
.
ther
ano
in
ve
ge might be rneffecti

ge, F.& AM . of California:
To the Mos t Worshipful Gra nd Lod
administration of the Grand Lodge
WHEREAS, the physical facility and
cisco,
1111 California Street, San Fran
of California is currently located at

192

.. .
We believe that to formalize b s~ecif1c title, or for this Grand Lodge
y
of
l
rova
app
urge
to
ee
mitt
Com
of group or its programs
~ytuniform. style
for all Lodges would be inapproapna
t
d1sad
and
e
van ages to the continuing
· · · · and imaginative growth f . d. .
ws
1nrt1ative
0
in ivrdually applicable Lodge wido
programs.
.
h
'.~rther Grand Lodge fundin of
tee on Masonic Widows to
~it
Com
e
ro~
g
e
arat
sep
port
sup
and
admrn1ster

could
I t ps, even tf Masonical/y related,
lead to requests from othe r un g
ge
Lod
nd
Gra
ilar
sim
for
re a ed groups
supports.
Your Committee on Poli cya nd General Purposes recommends a ''No"
vote.
The Committee on Finance:
.
.
.
Th e F'tnance Committ
ee believes th
.
be no financial impact from
will
ere
this Resolution.

Resolution ADOPTED.

ND
STUDY FOR RELOCATION OF GRA
(91-07)

LODGE OFFICE

.
s
The proponent of this Resolution eeks to have the incoming Grand
.
Com
cial
Master appoint a Spe
to study the feasi'bf
11ty and financial
ee G
t f relocating the offices mm
im
th
of
pac o
fornia to central
Cali
of
ge
e rand Lod
California area .

193

California; and
es, clothing , food, lodging, taxes,
WHEREAS, the cost of living, (wag
the
Francisco is the most expensive in
convention expenses, etc.) in San
State of California; and
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F.&
WHEREAS, the cost of operating the
e the
increased steadily since 1981 whil
A.M. in the State of California has
hip
bers
mem
in
rease. The decrease
membership has shown a steady dec
the
on
en
burd
has placed an undue
and increase in operating expenses
and
financial stability of many Lodges ;
Report, issued at the Annual ComWHEREAS, the Grand Treasurer's
e
D) that General Operating Expens
munication in 1990, reflects (Exhibit
0
2,00
$54
ely
mat
0 in 1981 to approxi
increased from approximately $300,00
ely
mat
roxi
app
ense increased from
end ing 1990, Administration Exp
ice
3,000 ending 1990. Program serv
$74
ely
mat
$428, 000 in 1981 to approxi
0
0,00
$20
ely
mat
0 in 1981 to approxi
increased from approximately $114,00
ve)
abo
es
gori
oses the expenses (3 cate
ending 1990. For comparative purp
were
2,00 0 ; in 199 0 the expenses
$84
for 1981 were app roxi mat ely
and
;
76%
3,00 0 or approximately
$1 ,485 ,000 for an increase of $64
wn a steady decline from 198 1 to
WHEREAS, membership has sho
1981
ntain or increase membership. In
1990, with no relief in sight to mai
ship
ber
mem
0
199
193 ,000 and in
mem ber ship was app roxi mat ely
and
;
for a loss of 48,000
decreased to approximately 143 ,000
dues for individual Lodges further
WHEREAS, continual increase in the
,
y members being on fixed incomes
promotes losses because of man
er
Oth
rity.
cha
ept
e and too proud to acc
financially unable to pay the increas
steady increases and either dem it or
the
ept
inactive members refuse to acc
ns
dues. In either of the above situatio
get suspended for non-payment of
enexp
ge
Lod
nd Lodge increases the
the Lodges lose revenue and the Gra
nd Lodge to vote an increase in per
Gra
of
ses by promoting the members
capita; and

195

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS many memb
f
. . .
of the State are, afford
ed a gr:~~ o the Frate~rnty
ltvmg in the Northern part
munication than those in the So~~~p~nunity to
attend the Annual ComState who are desirous of atte d ' th any from
the Southern part of the
to do so because of the assoc~at1edng e Annual Comm
unication are unable
expense; and

Our history has shown that when resolutions have
been proposed to
move the Annual Communication form San Franc
isco, they have invariably
t)een defeated by substantial margins.

194

WHEREAS, if the Grand Lodge w
.
.
State the attendees
from the N nh as situat
ed m the Central part of the
expense of attending the Ann~al C~n~;o~th ~ould
share equally in the
heaviest financial burdens have b
unicat1on. For many years the
many in the North have enjoyed t~=~~~uthe atten
de~ fro.m the South while
for the price of a Senior Citizen F
al Communications and festivities
are on BART or maybe the Cable Car.
NOW, THEREFOR
BE IT RES
.
Master shall appoint a E,
Special C
?LVE D th~t the incoming Grand
continuing to do business in San ~mm1~ee to review
the current cost of
increases for the next five years · to ;~nc1sco and
.t~~
yearly projected cost
of relocating and doing busines~ in a ~dy the fe~s1
b.11ity and financial impact
State , i.e., the Fresno Bakersfield
e~
location m the Central part of the
clusions and recomm~ndation t harea, and to
t its findings,
s a t e next Annualrepor
Communication. conRespectfully submitted,
Larrie D. Ayers, PM No. 632
The Committee on Jurisprudence:

The proponent
Resolution No.
Grand Master appoof
.
int a Sp . C 91.-0 7 seeks to have the incom
ing
financial impact of relocating~:1 H' ommittee to
study the feasibility and
central California area.
o ices of the Grand Lodge of California to
The legislation
distributed to
C
.
carry out the intent on
of the proponentsthe
.
onst1tuent Lodges is adequate to
. This Resolution does not seek to am
at1ve vote only is requi
red for adopt'
end our law and a majority affirm1on.

We cannot argue that the costs are probably great
er in San Francisco
than in the Fresno-Bakersfield area. We might also
concede that attendance
could improve if Grand Lodge were moved furthe
r South. However, there
are numerous other questions to be answered
such as accessibilit y ,
transportation. housing, acquisition or constructio
n of Grand Lodge facilit y,
disposition of San Francisco property and so forth.
We recognize that the proponent of this Resolution
is only asking that
a committee be appointed to study the feasibility
and financial impact of
such a move , not that such a move be appro
ved. However, if such a
committee were to conduct the in-depth study that
such a proposal would
require, it could be a long and costly process. We
also feel that, if such a
study were to be undertaken. it should not be
confined to the FresnoBakersfield area.
Based upon prior refusals to approve any attempts
to move the Annual
Communication and because there is no indication
of a substantial change
in this attitude on the part of the members of Gran
d Lodge. we do not feel
that appointment of a committee to study this matte
r is warranted at this
time. We also must again express our concern
that any study of a matter
of this complexity would be difficult and expensive.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes

recommends "No"

vote.
The Committee on Finance:
Your Finance Committee has no recommendation
on Resolution No.
91-07 . however. should this Resolution pass,
the Finance Committee will
provide funding for the proposed special committee
which we estimate will
be about $5,00 0.00 .

Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

Section 150 of the California Masonic Code provid

es :

'that said Annual Communication
.
California at any
other pl
.may be held in
the State of
five-sixths vote at an
~ce or time upon the adoption by a
called for the
or Special Communication
, a eso ut1on so providing.
"

p~rpos~ ~.9vi~us ~n~ual

At 5:10 p.rn. Grand Lodge was called off with labor
9:00 a.m. on Tuesday October 15, 1991.

to be resumed at

196

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

d States have reco
WHEREAS, other jurisdictions in the Unite
ar manner.
problem and adjusted their ritual in a simil

MO RNI NG SESSION
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1991
G
At 9·00
. . a.m. rand lodg e was called
Mon, _the Grand Master presiding .
The morn1~g session was raised by David
artinez, P.M. the Senior Warden
of International City lodg e No 389 .
the gavel presented to the Grand
Master at a reception held for him b u~ng
and 61 Hh Masonic Districts
610th
yt e
.
.
Other gavels used during this mornin
d
ente
pres
l
gave
a
g session w~re
to the Grand Master by San Joa uin N
and Morningstar Lodge No 68
19
kto.
qSt
th
of
g
layin
at the cornerstone
on Human ervices Building and a
e oc N
gaveI presented by Fallbrook lod
ge o. 317 at the cornerstone laying
ceremony of its new Temple.

s ·

..

·

197

gnized this

that the Ritual of this Grand
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
Flag of our Country, be amended
Lodge in respect to the reception of the
States of America will be called on
to provide that only citizens of the United
Monitor and the Officer's Guide
to recite the Pledge of Allegiance with the
as follows:
of this Grand Lodge being amended to read
e) or "Let all persons" (Open
of the United States join
Lodge or at Refreshment) who are citizens
pledging allegiaAee to the
will lciAclly FeJ*'at witt:l me tt:le Pleage of in
Flag of our Country."

·~ J.e1....all Brethren" (Closed Lodg

Respectfully submitted,
ITATION OF PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

AMENDS CAL L FOR REC
TO CITIZENS ONL y

(91-08)

John A. Scheich, SW No. 378

Jesse W. White, PM No. 378

The Committee on Juris prud ence :
to amend the Ritual so as
The proponents of Resolution No. 91 -08 seek
of Allegiance.
to call only on citizens to recite the Pledge

The proponents of this Resolution seek amend the Ritual so as to call
only on citizens to recite the Pied ge ot Allegiance .

Lodges is adequate to carry
The legislation as distributed to Constituent
out the intent of the proponents.

.
.
&A M
To the Mos t Worshipful Gran d Lodg e• F·
· . of Calttorma ·
.
.
WHE~EAS, the Flag of our Count ry should be disp
in the East at
d
laye
all Masonic meetings; and

l and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
This Resolution seeks to amend our Ritua
required for adoption.

t?

WHEREAS, there is an official rit If presenting the Flag and reciting
ge of Allegiance to it; and ua or
Pled
the
.
WHEREAS, it is proper and ex
ns to pledge allegiance
citize
all
tori
:
f;c~
Coun
e
ectiv
resp
their
ot
to the flag
of another Country
flag
the
ute
sa
but not pledge allegiance to it and w d
hearted pledges
halfany
want
not
of allegiance without meaning ; and e o
. .
.
WHEREAS, in our present mobile socie
ty it is an often occurrence to
.
t
Coun
her
anot
of
rs
visito
see
honor of a visit to our Lodges and
for us to visit lodg es in othe ('i~en~r~ the
~e do not want to embarrass
our guests nor be embarrassed whene~ an~ them by requiring what can
visit
e
not be done; and

oses:
The Committee on Polic y and Gen eral Purp
the flag. the Master shall state ,
The Monitor specifies that.upon receiving
Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag
"The Brethren will kindly repeat with me the
that, when brethren from other
of our Country." The proponents believe
, such a directive may prove
countries are visiting a Lodge in California
ly, they seek to change the text
embarrassing to those visitors. According
Brethren "who are citizens of the
so that the Master will invite only those
United States" to join him in the pledge.

h inaccurately assumes that
We agree that the existing language, whic
g to Pledge Allegiance to our
all Masons present in a lodgeroom are willin
visitor. However, we think that it
flag, could potentially embarrass a foreign
iner will be, not a foreigner
is far more likely that the non-citizen sidel
a permanent resident. Such a
temporarily visiting the United States, but
al steps necessary to become a
resident, while he has never taken the form
that the United States is his home,
naturalized citizen, may nevertheless feel

198

MAK ES REClTATION OF OFFICER'S

and may be both pleased and proud to
Pledge Allegiance to the flag of his
adopted country. By implicitly excludin
g a brother from the recitation of the
pledge, the Resolution has, we believe,
an even greater potential for embarrassment than the status quo.
We oppose this change for a second reas
on as well. We are not at all
sure that the language which the prop
onents seek to change is part of the
ritual. However, that is how the proponen
ts have characterized it. If they
are correct, existing law would not perm
it the proposed change in the ritual.
Section 2690 of our law restricts the pow
er of the grand Lodge to change
our ritual to those alterations which are
implemented ''for the purpose of
having it remain as it was handed dow
n from time immemorial." Thus our
law allows corrections in the ritual to resto
re it to the way it was originally,
but does not allow innovations which requ
ire the ritual to be given in a way
which has never been don e before.
The proponents do not contend that
the prop osed change would
restore the current ritual to the manner
in which it was delivered in 'time
immemorial." Unless the proposed chan
ge is a correction, rather than an
innovation, it is contrary to the policy of
this Grand Lodge, as memorialized
in Section 2690.
For both of these reasons, your Com
mittee on Polic y and General
Purposes recommends a "No" vote on
Resolution 91 -8.
The Com mittee on Ritual:

You consid ered this same Resolution last
year and it received only 445
"Yes" votes, less than 29%. Frankly, we
are surp rised to see it again so soon.
Our opposition to this Resolution was
clearly stated at the 1990 Communication, and we repeat it now. "The
authors of this Resolution corr ectly
state that non-citizens should not be expe
cted to Pledge their Allegianc e to
a flag other than their own. We would hope
that all such persons wou ld have
presence of mind enough to realize
that they were exempted from the
Master's directive as now stated in our
Monitor. Considering the frequency
with which our Pledge is recited, they
should be well acquainted with
behavior appropriate to their status.
While we are sympathetic to the inten
t of the authors, we feel this
legislation is unnecessary, and recomme
nd a "No" vote.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

199

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DUTIES

IN OPENING OPTIONAL

(91-09)
it at the option of the
roponent of this Resolutionodseektsh~o ~~~
f
~n abbreviated ritual
The P
· g
the L ge,
. ed
Master, during the _openfinth ofdutie
s of the officers is om1tt except where
. h
citat
ion o
e
wherein t e re
is to be used.
the abbreviated ceremony
.
&
A
M
of
Calif
ornia
:
F
· f I Gran d Lod ge, ·
· ·
To the Mos t Worship
u
..
.
have been requir ed to
pec1f1ed officers
·
f ach
and closing ceremonies
WHEREAS~ fordmany years s .
o e
.
g
the
open
ing
'te their duties unn
rec1
ted meeting; and
special and sta
t hange at the opening
ed officers do no c
ERE AS,t hed utie sofs pecif'.
h
same regardless of the d egre e·,
WH
.
they remain t e
and closing ceremonies,
and

.
d to the recitation of duties is the
WHEREAS, the only difference in;;g~r
officers reciting their duty a~~o;
I er the degree the greater the numThe
majo
r difference is the 3, 5, a
ow
f the Worshipful Master.
the duty o
rule; and

.
carry-Over Resolumunication in 1990 •
WHEREAS, at the Annual
e
the presiding officer to c~ose Lodg
f
roved authorizing
ed
the
requ
irem
ent or
tion No. 89-7 v:as ~P~bbreviated ritual
whic
mon y when the abusing the opt1?na . d ties during the h ?el et
closing cere
officers to recite their u . ed· and
· was exerc1s .
breviated option
.
. t ut the need to
d
ation poin
WHEREAS, modern thinking a~ ofeduc
meetings and reduce bored~~'
eliminate redundancy, ~~u: :~i~ssiv
enes
s or those things of mate
without destroying the ign ,
value; and
. ed 'tual for the opening
·
I bbrev1at
n
h

.

c
On:' .

°

WHEREA~d tph~~~~ ~ea;r~i~~ao~cer :i~~~~~ti~~

t~h~n~

the
'::
ceremony wou
.
d therefore do not ne
recitation of the duties .an
.
th same meeting.
twice at e
.
tated or special
IT RESOLV'ED that any s .
o
ened
NOW' THEREFORE, BEh option of the
presiding off~cer,. bee :mit tee
.
f Lodge may , at t e
ed by the R1tua o
meeting o a . ted opening ceremony
ap_provh. h the duties of the officers
by an abbrev1a
G nd Lodge in w 1c
and exemp1l'f'ed
i before the ra

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.
are omitted, provided howe ver that b h
nal abbreviated opening
opt1~
the
otr
the
ceremony provided for herein ~nd
p esent optional abbreviated clo .
ceremony shall not both b
in~~~
e used at the same stated or special meet
the Lodge.
.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that
ted Ritualforthe opening
evia
b.br
~hea
l
Ritua
ceremony be prep ared by the
omm1ttee for use by the constituent
Lodges.

The Com mitte e on Ritual:

t for this Resolution , and we
There is merit in the proponents' argumen
supported the Short Form
has
we
as
were initially inclined to support it just
lled the principal justificareca
we
ver,
closing. After further discussion, howe
ide the constituent Lodges the
tion for the short from closing. It was to prov
d Lodge. There is no abbr eviated
same prerogative as was used by the Gran
opening for Grand Lodge.
ting could use abbr eviated
It was also pointed out that no single mee
duties could be eliminated only
ceremonies both in opening and closing; the
saving of time is already prov ided
once . Therefore , the means to realize the
by the short form closing.

Respectfully submitted,
Th

201

larri e D. Ayers, PM No. 632
.
e Commtttee on Juris prud ence :

The proponent of Resolution No 91seeks to permit, at the option of
the M~ster, during the opening of the.Loo09
t.he us~ of an abbreviated ritual
ge,
wherein the recitation of the dut·
e
ies. of the offrcers is omitted except wher
the abbreviated closing ceremo ny
is to be used.
.
The legislation as distributed to th
nt Lodges is adequate to
titue
Cons
e
ts.
onen
prop
the
of
t
inten
the
carry out

prohibits two abbreviated
We might add that, although the Resolution
ee the day that some Lodges
ceremonies at the same meeting, we fores
s would never be heard again.
would overlook that restriction and the dutie
The Committee on Ritual recommends a

"No" vote.

Resolution NOT ADOPTED .

.
This Resolution seeks to ame
nd our Ritual and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
required for adoption.
The Com mitte e on Polic y and Gener:af Purpos es:

Section 2690 of our California Masonic Code

states:
.

:'Th.e Gran d Lodge alone has the
au~honze any changes
in rrtu~I for the purpose of havin ~wer ~o
g rt remain as it was handed dow n
from time immemorial''
.
The proponent offers no eviden
Resolution will change ritual
this
tha~
~e
rema
it
g
~or the purpose of havin
it. v.:as handed dow n from time
immemorial. Rather, he cites the need as
el1m1nate redundancy, redu ce the
length of meetings, and reduce bore d to
om as the reasons for suggesting the
modification.
Your Committee on Pol"rcy and General p
r r
urposes does not support the
a io~le for the proposed chan es
we .do not believe that the
requirements of the California Mas~ni . CAlso.
ode, Section 2690 , have been met ·
therefore the Resolution should not bee appr
oved .
We must reco mme nd a "No" vote .

ALTAR ON OPENING
PERMITS PASSING OF WORD AT THE
AND CLOSING OF THIRD DEGREE

(91-10)
to permit the Lodg e, at the
The proponents of this Resolution seek
or closi ng in the Third Degree to
option of the Master, during the opening
ter and Senior Warden only .
Mas
pass the word at the altar through the

A.M. of California :
To the Mos t Worshipful Gran d Lodg e, F.&
erned with time to such an
WHEREAS, everyone seems to be so conc
ceptable level ; and
extent that It is affecting our ritual to an unac
those who want to save time
WHEREAS, we need a way to appease
; and
with a minimal impact on our sacred ritual
dictions in the United States
WHEREAS, precedent is set in othe r juris
saves considerable time with a
which allow the following change which
olism of our ritual, and there
minimal impact on the meaning , form, symb

202

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ers t 0
must have been a way for three offic
open and close a Lodge in the
past.
.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT AESOLV ED that. the Ritual of this Grand
Lad
the
it
perm
Lodge be amended to
during
d D~e~ at the opti on of the. Master,
the opening and closing in the Thir
and
den
War
ior
Sen
the
e
hav
to
g ee,
ers
the Master meet north of the alt
offic
e
thos
ar and pass the word through
only.
Respectfully submitted,
Joh n A. Scheich, SW No. 378

Jesse W. White, PM No. 378

The Commirtee on Juri spru den ce:
.
91. The proponents of Resolution No
it a Lodge, at the
perm
to.
k
see.
10
enin
o
opti on of the Master, during the
or closing in .the Third Degree, to
h
pass the word at the altar through~ e aster and Senior Warden only.

,J

.
Con .
The legislation as distributed to the
is adequate to
ges
Lod
ent
stltu
nts.
carry out the intent of the propone
r .
This Resolution seeks to amend o u Ritual and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
required for adoption.
eral Purposes:
The Committee on Poli cy and Gen
.
This Resolution, similar to 91-9 , i ~ not consistent with the provisions of
M
b
iforn
Cal
the
of
0
Section 269
... asonic Code.

d .
The proponent expressin
our Ritual
~~1~e to sa~e time , feel.s t~attion
~o
~
for
con
to
sh~uld be modified
s in the
in other Jurisdic
d
use
a
United States.
not convinced that th'IS .IS .In the best . t
in erests of Freemasonry
. are. nor are we convinced
. CaWe
th .
hforn1a,
in
the requirements of the
ts
mee
It
at
California Masonic Code.
Your Committee on Polic Yand General Purposes believes that a ''No "
vote is required .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

203

The Commirtee on Ritual:

ies emulate our conception of the
Many parts of our ritualistic ceremon
exmon 's Temple. In our opening , for
ceremonial operation of King Solo
hren
bret
led
emb
ass
the
to
ed
municat
ample, notice from the Master is com
the
everyone present can clearty hear
gh
thou
even
s,
den
thro ugh both War
inal
ld not have been the case in the orig
Master himself. Such, however, wou
.
ts that
Temple, and our ceremony sugges
ion is another such instance. Our
The activity referred to In this Resolut
and
are the messengers for the Master
ritual specifies that the Deacons
as
mony uses them in that capacity, just
Senior Warden. Our opening cere
our
d messengers. To take them out of
Solomon and Hiram would have use
e
the dignity and symbolism of thos
opening and closing wou ld destroy
moments.
on Resolution 91-9, the ope ning
As we mentioned in our report
llel
the constituent Lodges should para
ceremonies of the Grand Lodge and
e
ther
s,
ge opening involves the Deacon
one another. Since the Grand Lod
the rest of us.
is no justification for changing it for
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

T MASTER'S APRON WHILE
PERMITS THc WE ARI NG OF A PAS
IR ON PAST MASTER'S NIGHT
OCCUPYING AN OFFICER'S CHA
(91-11)
seek to provide that when occ upy ing
The proponents of this Resolution
Past
Night. a Past Master may wear his
an officer's chair on Past Master's
.
d
upie
occ
of the station
Master's apron in lieu of the apron
ge, F.& A.M. of California:
To the Mos t Worshipful Gra nd Lod
fornia and its various committees
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of Cali
of the
in recognizing the many members
have performed outstanding work
eral
gen
in
onry
al contributions to Mas
constituent Lodges for their individu
icular; and
and to their respecUve Lodges in part

a Master, on his retirement from that
WHEREAS, it is a known fact that
accolades as would befit him ; and
time honored chair, is given such

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

204

205

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
The legislation as amended is adequate to carry out the intent of the

.
WHEREAS, a Master's deer
h1cated. s~rv1ce to his Lodge is a mark f
distinction that continues thr
o
oug out his life; and

proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend our Law and a 5/6 affirmative vote

.
WHEREAS, he is usuall ive
on special occasions; and Y g n a beautiful Past Master's apron to wear
~HEREAS, the proponent's of thi

.
the
wedanng of these aprons is in conflict wit~ t~esol.ut1.on do not believeothatress;
e existing Masonic code f d
an

it is the internal and n ot the external prerequisites which
WHEREAS,
a good Mason.
make
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RES
Lod.ge be amended to provide that wh OLVED that the Ritual of this Grand
en a Past Master occupies an officer's
station on the occasion of a Lod e'
to wear his Past Master's apron~ s Past Master's Night, he shall be allowed
Respectfully submitted
Emmett F. Hill, PM No. 297
Nathan W. Spears, PM No. 297
Donald A. Christenson, PM No 310
·
The Committee on Jurisprud
ence:

,
Fernando P. Felix, PM No. 297
Chester F. Conley, PM No. 297
p
Edward C Barh
am, M No. 297
·

Th~ proponents of Resolution N

~~c~pymg an officer's chair on Past MZ~t 91: 1~· seek to provide that when
is ast Master's apron in lieu of th

er s ight, a Past Master may wear
e apron of the station occupied.

The legislation as distrib
ges has been
uted to the Constituent Lod
amended as follows.·
.
2059 of the Cahfornia
Section
.
Masonic Code ·is amended to read as
follows·

required for adoption.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This Resolution would permit the wearing of a Past Master's apron while
occupying an officer's chair on Past Master's Night. This comminee can
find no legitimate, or acceptable reason for anyone occupying any officer
chair not to wear the jewel and apron appropriate to that chair. Since this
Resolution is limited only to one night of the year, and that presumably only
Past Masters will be occupying the officer's chairs and will be recognized
as Past Masters. the wearing of any apron other than that of the station
should not be permined.
We urge a "No" vote.

The Committee on Ritual:
As we travel throughout this Jurisdiction, we see an amazing variety of
officers' aprons, ranging form beautifully embroidered. ornate aprons for
each office. down to simple, plain white aprons. Obviously, it is the jewel ,
not the apron, which identifies the office. Therefore. we see no problem in
allowing Past Masters to wear their aprons while serving as officers during
special Past Masters' nights.
We remind the brethren that this Resolution permits the wearing of that
apron only "on the occasion of a Lodge' s Past Master's Night. " In other
enjoy the same privilege. Our law will still
words, when all participants
prohibit the wearing of a Past Master's apron while filling an office on any
other occasion, and that restriction should be rigorously enforced.

w~I

With that understanding, the Committee on Ritual recommends a "Yes"
vote.

.
"The A~ron appropriate to one's rank or
station may be worn at any
gathering of Masons at which ff
~ icers ?f Lodges are authorized to
wear the apron of their res
who hold the title and rant~c~~:t s~t1ons, and further, that those
I aster as defined in this code
may wear an apron having the.
atast Master upon it. Except
when occupying an officers
Past Masters Night at his
o
th
~odge, a Past Master will wear
e apron of the officer's station he
is occupying."

~~;~~f

Resolution HELD OVER.

206

SPE CIFI ES POS ITIO N OF CAN DIDA TE
PRO FICI ENC Y EXA MINA TION

207

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AND LIMI TAT ION ON
STU DY OF EXISTING COM MITI EES
EES
CRE ATIO N OF NEW SPE CIAL COM MITI

DUR ING

(91-12)

(91-13)

.
.T~e prop onen ts of this Resolution
to prov ide that, if a shor t-for m
k
Lsee
d
Gran
this
by
ted
adop
is
y
p~of1c1enc
od~e , the examination of the candida te on the oblig ation will b

to establish a com mitte e, with
The prop onen ts of this Resolution seek
ing Grand Lodg e com mitte es and
a fixed three year life, to review exist
or cons olida te those with over1appres ent legislation to redu ce, eliminate
ping or unnecessary func tions.

e repeated With the cand idate kneeling

Altar.

at the

.
.
AM
To the Mos t Worshipful Grand Locige' F·& · . of Caltforma:
.
WHEREAS, legis latio n will be r
Grand Lodg e whic h
this
~o
ed
opos_
P
ci
profi
d
wou ld perm it a shor tene
ination, cons isting of the mod es
of reco gniti on and the obligation~:% exam
WHEREAS, the recit ation of the M
Ma~on's obligation takes only
abou t two and a half minutes, with the ~~ter
o ers takin g cons idera bly less· and
'
.
WHE
REA~, it wou ld appe ar fOolish t o have the candidate seated for
such shor t recitations; and
.
WHEREAS, this necessitates ad
g a more appr opria te man ner of
optin
and
pres enta tion;
.
WHEREAS, repeating one' s obli
on shou ld be regarded as a reaffirr~d1
befo
n
mati on of the vows once take
od, when kneeling at our altar.
ORE BE IT RE SOLV

NOW , THEREF
t~a.t, in the event that this
Gr~nd ~odge adopts legi~lation reducin g theED
prof1c1ency examination to the
obl1gat1on and mod es of reco g ·r
the last sentence of Section 2668
of the California Mas onic Codeni ~o~I obenly,
s a

ame nded to read :

s_uch examination shall be held . f
of the East With the candida te kneeling at the altar for th in ron.t.
e repet1t1on of the obljgatio.o..
Respectfully subm itted
,
Ulysses G. Patropulos, PM No. 344
F. Herr old, PM No. 303
en
Reub
Edw ard P. Margherio, PM No. 347
S~muel E. Harris, PM No. 612
How ard E. Moo re, PM No. 228
Edwin A Robi nson , PM No. 357
Paul D. Hennig, PM No. 651
Resolution WITHDRAWN

formation of any new com
The prop onen ts also seek to prevent the
Lodge.
tees witho ut a two- third s vote in Grand

To the Mos t Worshipfu l Grand Lodg e, F.&

mit-

A.M. of California:

ently supp ort appr oxim ately
WHE REA S, the Mas ons of California pres
and
fifty- two (52) Grand Lodg e Committees;
ar to
WHE REA S, the com mitte e mem bers appe
g; and
while California mem bers hip is decreasin

be rapid ly increasin g

California Masons is resulting
WHE REA S, the decl ine in the num ber of
of mem bers and in the perc enta ge
in an increase in both the average age
inco me: man y of who m are unable
of mem bers on a fixed or severely limited
irements; and
to parti cipa te ftJlly in our activities and requ
rises year1y with a significant
WHE REA S, the per capita assessment
ated expenses ; and
porti on of this rise bein g for committee-rel
d their concern that som e
WHE REA S, man y Brothers have expr esse
cess ary, and in both case s costly.
com mitte e func tions over1ap or are unne
that withi n two week s of the
NOW, THE REF ORE , BE IT RES OLV ED
the Gran d Master shall appo int a
close of this Annual Com mun icati on,
and review all com mitte es of Gran d
Com mitte e Review Com mitte e to stud y
ose of redu cing , cons olida ting or
Lodg e and their activ ities, for the purp
e mem bers hip posi tions as apelimi natin g such com mitte es or com mitte
less than seven nor more than
prop riate . This com mine e shall have not
mati cally at the close of the third
eleven mem bers and shall be dissolved auto
Annual Com mun icati on follo wing this one.
BE IT FUR THE R RES OLV ED that :
expenses shall be mad e
1. All Com mitte e records, reports and
ew Com mitte e; and
available for the use of the Com mine e Revi

208

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
2. No member of the Committ
member of any other committee;e:~evi.

ew Committee shall be a

3.

The Committee Review Committ
~t eac~
of the next two Annual Comee s~ll ~rov . .
ide inter

im reports
including recommendation
m~nrc~t1ons and a final report
Communication.
s and leg1slat1on at the third Annuai
BE
FUR
R RESOLVED
1250 be IT
amendeTHE
d to read as
followst:hat California Masonic Code
Section
Special Committees may be a
.
Annual Commun
ication just b~foomt~
by the Grand Master at each
tee existed at the opening of the r:~n
~~lo
se there?f. i~ the commitLodge has authorized the creation o
Com
~urncat1on or Grand
(2/3) .vote. or where all fund in
f f the comm1~ee by a two-thirds
co~tnbut~ from a source oth~r ~~~he committee
is voluntarily
dtJnFlg tt::le IFlteNals beM·eeFl tt::le G
n G~an~ Lodge, wt::ienever,
ke skall cleeffi it Reeessary so to d:~A
'luR1eet1on of GraRd loclge,
GraRcl locl ge clireets. Such S ecial'
aRd s~all be appointee wke n
ar.e n~t li~ited to, the followi~ .
Com~1~ees may include, but
H1stonc Sites and Buildi
pg . . Re.cognition of Grand Lodges
Public Information
of California Freemason'
ders,
Taxationge
and Museum, Youth
the committees shall be within
l~su
ra.
nce. The size of each of
or as directed by Grand Lod e he d1sc
ret1~n of the Grand Master
shall continue during the yea ;th and ~he
duties of such committees
of the next succeeding Annu I Cerea
er a.nd ~hall cease at the close
a ommunrcat1on.

Gra~g~~ ubl1~t1on
Commerciali~m.
~brary

:n

Or~

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED
Masonic
Code Section 160 be am tdhedat the
third paragraph of California
en
to read :
Except as pr 'ded ·in Sections
502
the vote requovi
ired to amend.th C
, 504 , 4002 and 4004 relating to
Grand. Lodge. and Sectjon 1~50o~!t
t~tion and Ordinances of this
establish a new special committee
tating to th~ vote regujred to
Grand Lodge at its Annual C
, ~e t_ransact1 on of business in
majority of the vote.
ommunrcat1on shall be decided by a
Respectfully submitted
Robert H. Balderree, PM No. 561
E. Willi
. a:n Maxwell , PM No. 561

209

The Committee on Juri spru den ce:
The proponents of Resolution No 91-1
3 seek to establish a committee.
with a fixed three year life, to review exis
ting Grand Lodge committees. and
present legislaton to reduce, eliminate
or consolidate those with over\apping
or unnecessary functions and, also ,
to prevent the formation of any new
committees without a two thirds vote
in Grand Lodge.
The legislation as distributed to the Con
stituent Lodges is adequate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.

This Resolution seeks to amend our

law and a 5/6 affirmative vote is

required for adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General

Purposes :
Study of Existing Committees and
Limitation On Creation of New
Special Committees .
The subiect of appointing Study Com
mittees to explore the entire
committee structure of our Grand Lod
ge has been an ongoing concern of
this Grand Lodge in recent years. In
reviewing this subject in prior Annual
Proceedings . we note that two such stud
y committees have been appointed
during this period .
Most Worshipful Donald G. Ingalls, at
the recommendation of the 1978
Policy and General Purposes Committe
e. appointed a blue-ribbon commission to carefully examine the organiza
tional structure of the Grand Lodge of
California, and also that of other Gran
d jurisdictions; it was charged to
formally report the results of its study
and its conclusions at the next annual
communication. This commission mad
e its report to the Grand Lodge in
1981 after an extensive two-year stud
y.
In 1986. Grand Master John W. Dris
kell's recommendation number 3
again addressed this subject and sugg
ested that the incoming Grand Master
appoint a special study commission
to explore the entire committee structure of this Grand Lodge and if foun
d necessary. to make appropriate
recommendations to the Grand Master
tor his consideration or the submission of legislation on a timely basis
to be considered at the next annual
communication. Such committee was
appointed and continued its in-depth
study tor the next two years. The resu
lts of its findings are recorded in the
1988 Proceedings.
Grand Masters currently have the auth
ority and have recently exercised
it by consolidating and restricting com
mittees as deemed necessary.

210

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. .
Polic y and General Purp oses is of the
d opin ion .th?t sinc e an exhaustive
Gran
this
to
d
ente
pres
was
rt
repo
y
stud
Lodg e w1thm the last thre e Yea
and for othe r reasons prev ious ly f
rts,
fer,red to, furth er expe nditu re of fund s o
stud y this topic wou ld serv e no ure
se u purpase.

ED that the Ritua l of this Gran d
NOW , THE REF ORE , BE IT RES OLV
e
the Sen ior Dea con to give the sam
Lodg e be ame nded to prov ide for
ion
arat
prep
the
of
r
doo
clos es the
instr uctio ns to the cand idate whe n he
ion of a deg ree as he give s at the
sect
nd
seco
the
of
g
nnin
begi
room at the
sect ion of the first two degr ees.
same doo r at the begi nnin g of the first

We, ther efor e reco mme nd a "No " vote.

211

Respectfully subm itted ,

The Com mitte e on Fina nce:
In the past, there have been a nu
com mitte es crea ted to stUd
ture of Grand Lod ge .1 lucf mbe r of
struc
the
~~;e~ittee functions. The latest ~
thes e is the Long Range Pfan~ i~ C~:;

0

·
Th.
is c~mm1ttee is alrea dy familiar with
Gr~n~ Lodg e operations and
f
wou ld. not incu r the addi tiona l cost
blish ing and fund ing a new
esta
o
com mrtt ee for the next th ree years.
We. reco mme nd a "No" vo t e.

John A. Scheich, SW No. 378

Jess e W. White, PM No. 378

The Com mitte e on Juris prud ence:
4 seek to ame nd the Ritual to
The prop onen ts of Res oluti on No 91-1
give the sam e instr uctio ns to the
prov ide that the Seni or Dea con will
doo r of the prep arat ion room at the
cand idate upon leaving him at the
degr ee as give n at the begi nnin g of the
begi nnin g of the seco nd sect ion of a
first sect ion.
stitu ent Lodg es
The legis latio n as distr ibute d tot he Con
carr y out the inten t of the prop onen ts.

Res oluti on NOT ADOPTED.

This Resolution seeks to ame nd our
requ ired for adop tion.
R DUR ING SEC OND
MOD IFIE S RITU AL ON CLO SING DOO
REE S
SEC TION OF THE FIRS T TWO DEG

(91-14)
The prop onen ts of this Resolution s
~el< to a'.11end the Ritual to prov ide
that .the Sen ior Dea con will give the
me.1nstruct1ons to the cand idate upon
leav ing him at the doo r of the resa
t1on room at the begi nnin g of the
para
seco nd sect ion of a degr ee as ~
.
given at the begi nnin g of the f.1rst sect ion.
.
.
F & AM
To the Mos t Worshipful Gran d Lod ge• ·
· · of Cali forn ia:
.
WHE REA S, Mas onry is full of s mb
and alleg ories used to teac h
oflsm
Y
goo d men to be bette r; and
.

WHE REA S, hum an bein gs res nd
k1~dness and cour tesy and
teac hes to resp ect our fefi° mor e to
onry
Mas
ow man, espe ciall y our Brethren· and
'
WH
.
S
th
n
whe
set
is
t
eden
EREAS, prec
r
ion. e en1or Dea con clos es the inne
doo r at the begi nnin g of the first sect

is adeq uate to

Ritual and a 5/6 affirmative vote is

Purp oses :
The Com mitte e on Polic y and Gen eral
that the chan ge he prop oses is for
The prop onen t mak es no argu men t
in as it was handed dow n from time
the purp ose of ''having the ritual rema
ge on the grou nds that it wo uld disp lay
imm emo rial," but advo cate s this chan
kind ness and courtesy.
any chan ge, alteration , or exce pNeit her doe s the prop onen t prop ose
, whic h alrea dy has been reviewed.
tion to the prov ision s of Section 2690
the grou nds that this wou ld be in dire ct
Therefore, your Polic y Com mitte e, on
ce but to reco mme nd a "No" v ote.
conf lict with Sect ion 2690 , has no choi
The Com mitte e on Ritual:
you cons idere d, and rejec ted, a
At the 1989 Annual Com mun icati on,
whic h the prop onen t was afraid that
Res oluti on muc h the sam e as this, in
ded whe n the prep arat ion woo m
the cand idate wou ld som eho w be offen
ard had requested his adm issio n at
doo r was clos ed after the Sen ior Stew
year 's Resolution prop oses that this
the open ing of the seco nd sect ion. This
d expl anat ory word ing befo re clos ing
offen se wou ld be aver ted if we adde
the doo r.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brethren, we view this as a Resolution
looking tor a problem . We have
questioned many of our members, both
in 1989 and this year, asking if they
were offended, or considered it rude
, when the doo r was closed without
explanation . We have yet to find
the first man who remembers bein
g
bothered by our present procedure.

Altar and the Master is considered
WHEREAS, the area between the
riate place in the Lodge to receive
and therefore, the most approp
ed
hallOW
'
·
·an d
.
tion and
explanat10ns
,
~~

212

That's not to say it doesn't occur. Othe
rwise, we wouldn't have seen
two Resolutions in three years. We sugg
est, though that it is better handled
by a more considerate demeanor in
the Senior Deacon . A smile to the
candidate, or simply kingly meeting
his eyes , should prevent any offense.
Your Committee on Ritual doesn't see
the need to add new words to
our ritual, and recommends a "No" vote
.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

SPECIFIES LOCATION OF CANDID
ATE DURING
LECTURES AND INSTRUCTIONS

(91-15)
The proponents of this Resolution seek
to provide that all lectures and
instructions in connection with the deg
rees be delivered with the candidate
placed at the northeast corner of the
Altar.

To the Mos t Worshipful Grand Lod ge,

F.& AM. of California :

WHEREAS, in one degree the Can
didate is conducted to a specific
location "to be near and receive instructio
n... ", and then is moved to a totally
different location for his instruction;
and
WHEREAS, in another degree he is
conducted to a location representing a given place, but is actually
caused to make a 180 degree turn
without advancing to the place referred
to; and
WHEREAS, in another degree after bein
g raised he is seated in the chair
on almost, if not exactly, the place from
where he was raised: and
WHEREAS, for innumerable years the
Candidate in all the three degrees
was caused to stand or be seated Eas
t of the Altar to receive his lectures
and instructions: and

213

.

~

'd
. by the California Masonic Code, se
WHEREAS, th.e .Ca~~ pa:~fi~lency in
all three degrees.
in the East when grv1ng 1
.
OLVED that the ritual of this G~and
NOW THEREFORE, BE 1T RES
b the Master and instructions
Locige be ~mended to provide th~~~~
~~:~~h ihe Candidate placed at the
for the three degrees are to be
northeast corner of the Altar.
Respectfully submitted.
Donald P. Dassonville, PM No. 26
Earl H. Purington, PM No. 43
Resolution WITHDRAWN .

AUTHORIZES A LAPEL PIN FOR HIR
AM AWARD
(91-16)
. A olution seek to authorize a lape
l pin min iature
The proponents of this es .
d
to be worn by recipi~nts of the Hiram
Awar .
Lod
F & AM . of Californ ia:
To the Most Worshipful Grand
g~, . rded by the Grand Lodge of
WHEREAS, the Hira~ Award n~ f~~
~eir service to their Lociges and
Californ ia to hon or deserving Maso
to the Fraternity: and
.
. ed a large medalhon to
e
has
h
aut
onz
Lod
g
d
WHEREAS, the Gran
. nd
distinguish these deserving Masons ,
a
.
.
hile beautiful and meaningful ,
WHEREAS the Hiram Award Medallio
n, w
.
d .
is not es1gn ed 'to be worn at all times; and
. I
edallion should be worn on spec1a
WHEREAS , even though the large~
t display the award as often as
occasions only, recipients should be
a e o
desi red.
OLVED that the Grand Lod ge of
NOW, THEREFORE, B~ IT RES el
in miniature of the Hiram Award
California authorize the creation of a
:r~t
h~rs
duly selected tor the award.
medallion to be worn only by those

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NIA
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that such miniature pins be
made availabl e for purchase by the LOd ges at a nominal cost.

L FOR USE AT
PROVIDES OPTIONAL RITUA
STATED MEETINGS
JANUARY AND DECEMBER
(91-17)

l

Respectfully submitted
,
224
No.
eon D. Olson, PM
Robert A Griffith PM N 224
o.
·
N
Nate Trelan PM 0. 780
'

The Commirr,ee on Jurisprl.Jdence:

The proponents 0 f Aesolut1.on No 91- 16
el pin
miniature t b
H' seek to authorize a lap
o e worn by recipients of the iram Award.
The legislation as distribut
is ad
ed to the Constituent lOd ges
equate to
carry out the intent of the proPQnents.
. This Resolution does not
:~~~t~~:mend our law and a majority atfirmat1ve vote onl y is required for
The Com mit t

pos es .
ee on Pol icy and Ge ner al Pur
.
'
our Committee on Pol icy
eral p
Gen
and
th·
paragraph of
ees with each
and the obvious ne:~~es a~r
~
tio
olu
Re~
P;~
e/
Lap
ard
Aw
s for.a Hiram
the wearing of such :sc r:be
displaying a squ~re a ed believe
ard~ed. pin
and
s
pass will improve the fre
exposure of our Ma n . com m everywhere and 1que~cy of d1gnrfied
emble
a so will maintain the
pride of the reci . sonrcthe
,
award.
prents of

y

P .
YourCommittee
olrcy and General Purposes recommends a "Yes"
on
vote.
The Com mit tee on Finance:
.
. .
The Finance Com mit t
ee believes there will be no f rnanc1al impact from
this Resolution .

.
This project should be self supporting and m
ay even show a profit.
The F"
inance Com mit te recommends a "Yes" vote.
e
Resolution ADOPTED.

215

an opt ional
olution seek to provide for
The proponents of this Res
January
the
g
nin
through the Brethren in ope
method of passing the word
g.
the December Stated Meetin
Stated Meeting and closing at
nia:
nd Lodge, F.& A.M: of Califor
To the Mo st Worshipful Gra
is brought
in other jurisdictions, the wo rd
WHEREAS, in some Lodges
n, which has
December, through the Brethre
up in January and sent dow n in
ges for many years ; and
been the custom in these lod

s onl y, iner states, through the Deacon
WHEREAS, the Master's ord
probability the
has been used in the past; in all
dicating that another method
ed; and
very subject being here propos
we have
t of this method several times,
WHEREAS, having been a par
therly love is
ticipation, friendship and bro
noticed a great feeling of par
created among the Brethren.
this Grand
RESOLVED that the ritual of
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT
ster, the word
e that, at the option of the Ma
lod ge be amended to provid
and dow n to the
January through the Brethren
may be sent up to the East in
gs only.
Brethren at the Stated Meetin
West in December through the
Respectfully submitted,
Laurice F. Perkins , PM No. 243
Leonard l. Meyers, PM No. 43
George T. Ryerson, M No. 43
Dean H. Jennings, PM No. 26
Resolution WITHDRAWN .

ING TOOLS WHEN
PERMITS DISPLAY OF WORK
DESCRIBED IN A DEGREE

(91-18)
his option ,
n seeks to allow the Master, at
The proponent of this Aesolutio
in a Degree .
the Brethren when referred to
to display the working tools to

216

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd LocJ
ge, F.& A.M. of Cali forn ia ·
.
WHEREAS Ma
symbolism and alle gori .
goo d men to b~ bett~~~Z,~ full of
es used tot

each

WHEREAS, human n
ber it better when we

n mor e and r
hav:~~~~a~~~~~~ats toit is,relawete lear
ernern.
to· and

'

.
WHEREAS , most offic
ers In
.
r ~odges can talk and hold it
same time and those who have d';
ty sho uld have an opti on ems at the
icu
N
.
OW, THEREFORE BE IT
Rit
the
that
VED
SOL
.RE
provide that the Master ,
amended to
s option, when referring~~la~egre
of the working tools, ho~~~a~tithr
e to one
.
see
em up for all to
Respectfully submitted
'
Joh n A Scheich SW
No. 378
·
.
J
ee
The Com mitt
0 n uris prud enc e:
. The prop one nts of Resol . No 91-18 seeks to I
. ut1on
opti on, to displa th
a low the Master, at his
tools to the breth
king
wor
e
y
degree.
ren whe n referred to in a
The legi slat ion as distributed
to the Constituent Lod ges is ad equate to
carr y out the intent of the pro p onents.
Th· Resolution seeks t
. is
.
o amend our Ritual and a 5/6 aff'1rmat1ve vote is
requrred for ado ptio n
·
The Com mitt ee on Pot
icy and Gen eral Pur pos es·
s·
.
rnce the Resolution and th
oluti
Res
two
t
nex
e
t
n
prop ose s a cha
/itu al, it is in
Grand Lod ge in r:t
of our
o the California Mas . - eaw
onrc Cod states·.
"The G
rand lod ge a/on h
as pow er to authorize
~or the purpose of ha . ~It rem
any changes in ritual
ain as it was h
vrng
imm emo rial."
and ed dow n from time

~e~~~~~~~ed

vi~~~;~~ ~,1;~:fnd91-20,

This Resolution fails to r .
e any evidence that th
~epresents havin th . Pl ovrd
e cha nge prop ose d
ain as it wa h
rem
ritua
g e
immemorial
s and ed dow n from time
-

217

d Resolution is contrary to current
Lacking such evidence the propose
ive consideration by this bod y.
Masonic Law and should not rece
" vote.
Your Committee recommends a "No

The Committee on Ritual:
tool s are displayed just sec ond s
In the First Degree, the two working
as to
conceive of no mem ory so faulty
before they are explained. We can
three
the
ree,
Deg
rt time. In the Second
forget what they look like in that sho
in
them
to
e
renc
refe
n named, and the
instruments are also displayed whe
osimp
rly
nea
one
make displaying each
the explanation is so fleeting as to
the explanation.
of
flow
sible , without destroying the
d
ication, a Resolution was presente
Additionally, at the 198 9 Commun
to
r
ove
ied
carr
It
it.
to
d when referring
asking that the Mon itor be displaye
n, the
mittee recommended its ado ptio
Com
al
last year. Although the Ritu
be
not
uld
sho
itor
If you think that the Mon
vote of Grand Lod ge defeated it.
to
ous
ngru
inco
and
ld be inconsistent
displayed when it is named, it wou
.
al
Ritu
on
ee
mitt
Com
working tools. You r
take the opposite position for the
.
therefore, recommends a "No" vote
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

PERMITS CLO SIN G WITH ALL
(91- 19)

MEM BER S ON LEVEL

ide.
seeks to ame nd the Ritual to prov
The prop one nt of this Resolution
l.
leve
the
on
n
thre
Bre
all
ing a Lodge with
at the opti on of the Master, for clos
ge, F.& A.M. of Cali forn ia:
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod
h
bolism and allegories used to teac
WHEREAS, Masonry is full of sym

goo d men to be better; and
emwhat it is, we learn mor e and rem
WHEREAS, human nature being
symbols to relate to.
ber it better when we have visual

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RES
ED that the Ritual of this Grand
LOdge be amended to pr~vide th t OLV
optio~ of the Master, the LOdge
may be closed with all officers and ~e~~he
scom 1ngt othe floor ofthe LOd ge
when meeting on the level is referred to.er

in very small Lodge rooms, or
While we can foresee logistical problems
don't think this should dete r us
in Lodg es with very large attendance, we
olic meaning. Your Comminee
from adopting a procedure so filed with symb
on Ritual recommends a "Yes" vote .

218

Respectfully submined,

Resolution HELD OVER.

John A Scheich, sw No. 378
The Committee on Juris prud ence :
'.he proponent of Resolution No 91 -19. seeks to amend the Ritual to
I
provide, at the option of the Master t
osrng a LOdge with all brethren on
c
or
'
to.
red
refer
is
level
the
.
The legislation as distributed to Con . nt LOdges is adequate to carry
stttue
ts.
onen
prop
the
of
t
out the inten

219

PROVIDES FOR OPTION TO USE VAR
(91-20)

IETY OF ALTAR LIGHTS

provide for an option on the
The proponents of this Resolution seek to
regular altar lights with decorative
part of the Master of a Lodg e to replace the
bulbs.
of California:

.
.
'.his Resolution seeks to amend our Rrtua
l and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
tion.
adop
for
ired
requ

To the Mos t Worshipful Gran d Lodge, F.& A.M.

oses:
The Committee on Polic y and General Purp
.
Since this Resolution and then
s No. 91-1gand91-20,
ut1on
~~s~l
two
e~
t
proposes a change to our ado
. It .'s rn .violation of the law of our
ed /;~ualCa
Grand Lodge in that Section
o e lifornra Masonic Cooe states:

we learn more and rememWHEREAS, human natur·e being what it is,
e to ; and
relat
to
ols
ber it better when we have visual symb

2:90

WHEREAS, Masonry is full of symbolism
good men to be better; and

and allegories used to teach

.
"The Grand Lodge alone has power to authorrze any changes in ritual
.
tor the purpose of having it
remarn as it was handed down from time
immemorial."

days past must have been
WHEREAS, -the Lodg e furniture in the
t their needs. It is only
mee
whatever the Brethren had available to
t have been any bulb or
migh
reasonable to assume the lights at the altar
candle available to provide light; and

This Resolution fails to provide an evid
that the change proposed
~epresent~ having the ritual remain yas .It ence
ed dow n from time
hand
was
1mmemorral.

lations to prevent abuse,
WHEREAS, we do need reasonable regu
the individuality of the
stifle
to
not
exaggeration, and misinterpretations but
Lodges.

. .
Lacking such evidence the pro o ed
IS cont rary to curre nt
ut1on
~esol
s
p
.
not
ld
Masonic law and shou
receive consideration by this body.
Your Comminee recommends a "No" vote

.

The Committee on Ritual:

.
".
Many of us have witnessed closin " th e level in varrous jurisdictions.
on
g
if'
s·
the
by
ed
mov
was
us
Each of
ign icance of that moment.

that the Ritual of this Grand
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
option of the Master, the altar
Lodge be amended to provide that, at the
any appropriate lights or with
with
lights or bulbs therein, may be replaced
ded to represent flickering
inten
e
blue , white or clear bulbs, including thos
Masonic emblem.
the
in
flames, or candles. or those containing there
Respectfully submitted,
Jesse W. White, PM No. 378
378
No.
John A Scheich, SW

220

IA
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Com mi" ee on Jur ispr Ude

nce :

The proponents of Resolution No. 91-20 seek to provld
on the par t of the Mast r
ula eltfor _an option
e of a lod ge to rep lace the reg r a ar lights with
decorative bulbs
·
.
The legi slat ion as distribut
ent Lodges is adequate to
stitu
Con
~e
p:~~t~
car ry out the intent of the pro
This Resolution seeks to
m t·
amend our Ritual and a 5/6 affir a ive vote is
required for adoption.
The

~ommi"ee on Policy and General Purposes..

Smee this Resolution

. .
.
proposes a change to our ado
.
fthrltual, tt is in
Lodge in that Section 26~ted
o e California
Masoni c Code states ~ur Grand
·
viol atio n of the law of

"!he Grand Lodge alon e has
1
purpose of
tror
me imm emo rial ."

;:~~

tze any changes in
havln~~wr~~~i~~th~
s I was handed down

t~e

This Resolution fails to r v·
Ide ~ny evidence that the chang e proposed
res
;ep ents having the rit Pl orem ain as it was handed
ua
dow n from time
immemorial
·
La? king such evidence the

n is contrary to current
i~~~~~sldReesotl~tioby
this bod y

Masonic Law and should not re~:
Your Committ

.

ra ion

·

ee recommends a "No" vat a

The Com mit tee on Ritu al:

Through the years, you have repeated! b
.
ed to approve the use
e lesser lights. In every i~ta~~ne,ask
atN
~·or
p=1
co~
the
have acknowledged
you
k
ing arguments against th .
that
the idea W
cted
eir use, and reje
· e as
you do so onc e again perha PS once and for all.
·
of mor d

The mo st dramatic d eparture requested in th
.
Year's is no
ions, and this
mit light bulbs Which e Res?'ut
Compass :;~ep:n, is to per
Square and
0, the late Arthur M WcontamP.the
wh he
M
G.
was Gra nd Lee~' ck.a s 197ed
n,
arre
·
ure r, disallow th
en
b
p~
sha
the
th
in
ents
"it e use of filam
ecause
t ey were an "affectation " and would be incong
·
ruous for the lesser lights
o contain any of the Great
Lights." We . h
m1g t add that the bulbs we've seen

221

d Degree .
Com pass configured for a Thir
have all had the Square and
Degree .
ond
Sec
or
t
they were used in a Firs
Clearly, it wou ld be improper if
the use
s the most telling argument for
Our own ritual, however, provide
n is to
ctio
fun
sole
We know that their
of pla in and unadorned lights.
n as
soo
as
t,
tha
n
tha
soo n as they do more
illuminate the Great Lights. As
e.
pos
pur
sed
res
exp
ir
es, they violate the
the y dra w attention to themselv
.
ommends a "No" vote
Your Committee on Ritual rec
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

FIRST ITEM OF BUSINESS
REQUIRES BUDGET TO BE
N
AT AN NU AL COMMUNICATIO
(91-21)
ration of
ion seek to provide that conside
The proponents of this Resolut
at each
s
ines
bus
of
Lodge be the first ord er
the annual budget of this Grand
Annual Communication.
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipfu l Gra

nia :
nd Lod ge, F.& A.M. of Califor

the
of the recommended bud get for
WHEREAS, the approval by vote
res
ctu
l stru
ct on the financial and operationa
ensuing year has pro fou nd effe
c Lodges of California; and
of the Grand Lodge and Masoni
nt time
t the voting Brethren have sufficie
WHEREAS, it is imperative tha
ir vot e; and
the recommended budget in the
to reflect a negative opinion of
ng, after
there be sufficient time remaini
WHEREAS, it is imperative that
involved to
, for the Committees and oth ers
rejection of an offered budget
budget for the ensuing year; and
re-draft a new rec ommended
above
the voting Brethren to have the
WHEREAS, it is not possible for
d bud get is
available when the rec ommende
mentioned time requirements
munication
ments of the Grand Lodge Com
offered for vote in the last seg
ation of the
consideration and reconsider
dur atio n, the reby restricting
recommended budget.
son ic
SOLVED tha t the California Ma
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RE
aph
agr
par
at the end of Section 160 a new
Code be amended by add ing
reading as follows:

222

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The budget as prepared b the C
.
.
presented t~ the members ~f Gran~~m1ttee on Fm~nce shall be
vote as the first item of b .
_odge for considera tion and
- - _us1ness at each Annual
C ommurnca
. t1on
. Respectfully submitted
Robert H. Balderree , PM No
, . 561

,
E. William
Maxwell, PM No. 561

Hamson I. Dorsett, PM No. 561

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
. The proponen ts of Resolution No
t1on of the annual budget of this Grand91L~ seek to pr?vide that considera at each Annual Communic ation.
ge be the first order of business

The Finance Committee recommen ds that each Lodge very carefully
review this proposed budget and should they have concerns or questions
they should make them known immediate ly to the appropriat e Grand Lodge
Officer of the Finance Committee .
In addition, each year several Resolutions are proposed which , if
adopted, could have a dramatic impact on the final per capita.
The Finance Committee feels that this Resolution is impractica l and
therefore recommen ds a "No" vote.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED .

.The legislation as distributed to th
..
carry out the intent of the proponent
s. e Constituent Lodges is adequate to

DELETES REQUIRE MENT TO USE PUNCH CARD FORM

'.his Resolution seeks to amend
required
for adoption.
our law and a 5/6 affirmative vote is

(91-22)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution proposes
require r
.
~f theThis
Grand Lodge as the firstto
"t
p _esentat1on of the Annual Budget

t1on.

I em of business at the Annual Communic a-

~he Committe e on Finance wh
considera
tion all of the propo eel o prepares the budget must take into
ensuing year. Since some of th~ leg~:i~nses ~f t~e Grand Lodge for the
Lodge e~ch year contain items which aft ion which is ~roposed to the Grand
for the Finance Committee to antici t ect .e xpense. it would be impossible
would be approved and which woU: e wt h1ch of the proposed Resolutions
no .

223

FOR WRITTEN BALLOTS

The proponent s of this Resolution seek to amend the California Masonic
Code to delete the requirement that all written ballots shall be in punch card
form.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHEREA S, with little considera tion regarding the complex implemen tation. delegates at the 1989 Annual Communic atio n, upon recommen da tion for a "Yes" vote by the Polley and General Purposes Committe e,
adopted legislation that "all written ballots shall be in a punch card form to
be provided by the Grand Secretary... "; and
WHEREA S, punch card ballots now used in Grand Lodge cover all
subjects for voting except the approval of the Finance Committee Report

vote.Your Committe e on PolicYand General Purposes recommen ds a "No"

and Election of Grand Lodge Officers·, and

The Committee on Finance:

WHEREA S, the intent of the proponent to use punch card ballots was
to assure an accurate tabulation , when a written ballot is demanded ; and

All committee s and de rtme
.
t~ the
Finance Committee .~he ;~soare required

:o submit their budgets
Finance and Executive Committ~e P ~eel budget

is then reviewed by the
days prior to the Annual Commu _s. l_t is then forwarded to each Lodge 30
rncatlon.

WHEREA S, the Finance Committee Report and Election of Grand
Lodge Officers only require a majority vote for adoption which can precisely
be determine d by the Grand Master whether a voice. hand or rising vote is
used: and

224

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

225

WHEREAS, for 140 Annual Communications. the Finan
ce Committee
Report and Election of Grand Lodge Officers have
been determined by
voice . show of hands. a rising vote or written ballot
s, as decreed by the
Grand Master; and

The Committee Jurisp ruden ce:

WHEREAS, the logical method to ballot on the Finan
ce Committee
Report or Election of Grand Lodge Officers, if a writte
n ballot is demanded,
is to provide two punch card ballots. one for the Finan
ce Committee Report
and one for the Election of Grand Lodge Officers; and

The legislation as distributed to the Constituent Lodge
s is adequate to
carry out the Intent of the proponents .

WHEREAS, a punch card ballot for the vote on the Finan
ce Committee
Report would be satisfactory, but a punch card ballot
for Election of Grand
Lodge Officers is profoundly inefficient; and
WHEREAS, if a written ballot is demanded for the
Election of Grand
Master, or any of the Elective Grand Officers, the result
would not be know
until the Election of the Grand Lecturer was concluded
; and
WHEREAS, an alternative is to provide a punch card
ballot for each of
the seven Elective Grand Lodge Officers, however,
confusion would be
created should delegates write in names of different
persons who were not
nominated; and
WHEREAS, even with the best of circumstances the
additional cost of
punch card ballots is not justified compared to the conve
ntional method of
handwritten ballots, collected and counted by Grand
Lodge appointed
tellers; and
WHEREAS, ballots for the 1990 Annual Communication
cost $1 ,224.0 0
more than the cost for the 1989 Annual Communication;
and
WHEREAS, each individual punch card is an additional
expense, as well
as the time and effort to compose, collate, distribute and
tabulate each card.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the
last sentence of
Section 250 of the California Masonic Code be amen
ded to read as follows:

A AA written ballQ1 ~ js defined as one inscribed upon a slip

of
paper. or a computer sRall 0e ifl a punch card forffl te
0e provided
by the Grand Secretary and distributed. collected and
counted by
appointed Grand Lodge tellers .
Respectfully submitted,
H. Francis Lewis, PM No. 192

Kenneth J. Brisbin, PM No. 87

.
.
. N 91 22 seek to amend the California
The proponents of Resolut10~ o t -that all writte
n ballots shall be in
Masonic Code to delete the requ1remen
punch card form.

This Resolution seeks to amend our Iaw a nd a 5/6 affirmative vote is
required for adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

I .
employees in the Grand Lodge
. The propone~ts ofdti~!t~ye~~v~~': ~~~years with the
design, printing,
Office a~d have een I II .
of the written ballots at our Annual Comdistribut1on and actua ta ymg
munications.
Adoption by Grand Lodge o.f this housekeeping Resol
u~;:~l~~~tet~
mechanical glitch inadvertently introduced by an adopt
ed
CMC Section No. 250 in 1989.
ed that adoption of this Resolution will not only rna!nt
~in
We are assur
.
II t tallies but will also improve the t1mmg
the accuracy of th~ ~anous ba ~ nd L~ge Furthe
r, it will not eliminate
efficiency in report1n~ results to
ow nece~sary costs of printing ballots
printed ballots, but will decreas~ e n
which may not be actually required.

t:a

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recom
vote.
Resolution HELD OVER.

mends a "Yes"

226

227

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INCREASES VOTES FOR PAST MASTERS

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The proponents of Resolution No 91-23 seek to provid
e for an increase
In the number of votes for Past masters of each Lodg
e from one to four.

{91-23)
The proponents of this Resolution seek
.
number of votes for Past
Maste
f
to provide for an increase in th
rs o each Lodg
e from one to four.
e

To the
w Most Worshipful Grand Lodg e F & A M

. ma:
..
.
' · · · of Ca//for
HEREAS, it IS desirable and b
..
of members in attendance at each e~~~c
1~ for there to be a large number
Grand Lodge; and
0
e nnual Communications of our

The legislation as distributed to the Constituent Lodg
carry out the intent of the proponents .
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a

es is adequate to

5/6 affirmative vote is

required for adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

WHEREAS, it would seem th
Masters authorized to
vote at Grand~~n .increas~ in the number of
Past
attendance at Grand Lodge; and
ge would induce an increase in their
WHE
, upon rejections of
Masters inREAS
attendanc
e to vote
past Resolution
that the negative vote was ;,:;m ents were made s to allow all Past&k3
and heard to the effect .t4H
atten~ing could vote, those Maso~~~ by a ~ear that if all Past Maste
rs
Francisco Grand Lodge Temple would odg~s in
a close proximity to San
a preponderance of influence dur· thby virtue
of easy attendance reflect
Lodge; and
ing e Annual Communication of, Grand
_WHEREAS, it would seem feasible
achieved, and the
latter fear eliminated b tha_t .the former benefit could
be
Masters allowed per each Lod f
, y raising the number of voting Past
four (4) .
ge rom the present one (1) to a reasonable
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RES
nia Maso
nic Cocle be am'ended t
OLVED that Section 252 of the Califoro read as follows:
§252. Each elective and a
. .
except the Grand Tiler
eachpPprntnGt1ve officer of the Grand Lodge
Lod
'
as rand
. ge, each Master, Senio
r Warden Loci ge .Off'icer of the Grand'
given one vote each· and coll f 1' and Junio
r Warden shall be
Lodge, shall be give~~ f ec ive y, the Past Maste
rs of a given
in the event that there are fe~~;t~fvote s. provided
however. that
registered at the Annual Com~n .our.Past Maste
rs from a Lodge
allotted to the Past Masters of unrcat1on. the
number of votes
number of Past Masters actual! such. Lodge shall
be limited to the
Y registered.

Respectfully submitted
E. William Maxwell ' PM N o. 56

1

Robert,H. Balderree, PM No. 561

The third "whereas" statement of this Resolution
sets out some of the
reasons that previous similar Resolutions presented
to Grand Lodge have
not been recommended by the Committee on Polic
y and General Purposes
for adoption.
A Resolution to change a fundamental, democratic
provision of our
Constitution, which has functioned well for many years
, should demonstrate
a need more important than the mere possibility of
increased attendance at
our Annual Communications .
Credential Committee reports in recent years
have shown that approximately one-quarter to one-third of the regist
ered attendees at the
Annual Communication are Past Masters. Only
a part of these can vote.
If this Resolution were adopted to allow four votes
to Past Masters of
each Lodge, they could, if they wished. override the
total votes of the current
Master, Wardens and Elective Respresentative .
Confusion within Lodges
could be invited.
Because of the proportionately heavier load on
their memberships.
many of the smaller or outlying Lodges could
neither help finance nor
physically furnish three additional Past Masters who
would be able to attend
the Communications .
We believe our long establish provisions that each
Lodge be allowed
the reasonable opportunity to be equally repre
sented in Grand Loclge
should be continued .
A Lodge whose membership is small , or at a consi
derable distance from
San Francisco. should continue to nave the same
size of democratic voice
through its elective officers as a larger Lodge, or
one closer to San Francisco.

228

LIFORNIA
GRANO LODGE OF CA

E
PROCEEDINGS OF TH

Yo ur Committee on Po
vote.

lic and General Purposes recommends a "No"
Y

TED.
Resolution NOT ADOP

FOR EACH LODG
PROVIDES FOR VOTE
(91-24)

E SECRETARY

.
k
s Resolution
e for a vote in Grand
vid
pro
The proponents of thi
to
see
e Secreta and
dg
Lo
ch
ea
for
e
cretary to cast the
dg
Lo
d to permit the Seall
ster and
absent.
are
y
the
en
wh
votes of an absent Ma
s
ar en
.
of C 1·& rma
a 11o ·
ul Gr an d Lodge' F·& AM
· ·
To the Mo st Worshipf
.
el .
Lodge Secreta is an ectrve office of the Lodge an d
WHEREAS, the on
ry
d
e ff
with Grand Lodge; an
in mo st cases is the
o ice most connected

!J

. h
Secret
Lodge which
WHEREAS, the Lodge
': t e one office in the
~~
ss
ro
ac
ly
ve
uti
ec
ns
co
three officers thereby
usually is held
e; and e erm of the top
dg
Lo
the
to
ity
nu
nti
len din g co
.
ed Lo dg e
dge Secret
WHEREAS, the Loto
usually the most inform
1s
_
ary
rt
C
the
s
me
d Lo dg e
co
an
it
Gr
en
d
1
an
wh
r
off ice
ra Masonic Code
orn
a
Regulations; and
.
Secret
d
WHEREAS, the Lodge ies' ~eryet1_s reqnduested and ~xpected to atten
tar
cre
s.
Se
tie
the
du
for
er
e
oth
rng a
Grand Lodg
h of
BE IT RESO
that the first paragraplows:
NOW, THEREFOREr~ia M
~D
LV
C
.
fol
ifo
as
d
Cal
rea
the
to
of
d
2
de
25
en
Section
asonrc ode rs am
intive officer of th G
the
Each elective and appo
e rand Lodge, except h
Grand Of f.
Grand Tiler each Past
1cer of the Grand Lod ge, ea c
'.
M
Ju nio r Wa d
aster, Senior Warden en Lod r ehn. Secr~tary and, collectively,
g'iv
a
of
rs
vote.
ste
Ma
st
the Pa
ge, s all be given on e
.
LVED h
of
BE IT FURTHER RESO d as f~I~~:~ first paragraph of Section 254
rea
to
d
de
en
am
said Code is
ctive offi
If on e or more of the ele r electiv~e~~iof a L~ge entitled to vote has
nio
se
the
,
red
r. Senior
no t registe
ce~ registered, Maste
S
th
n
y also
rde
ma
Wa
.
r
ed
nio
list
Ju
er
n.
Warde
. e ecretarv. rn the ord

22 9

. If the elective
absentee or absentees
ch
su
y
an
of
te
vo
cast the
, the elected
vote have not registered
to
ed
titl
en
e
dg
Lo
a
of
officers
the Lodge. If an
the three four votes of
st
ca
y
ma
ive
tat
en
repres
and officer is also
and Lodge or a Past Gr
Gr
the
of
r
ice
off
nt
be
incum
a Lodge he ma y also
cted representative of
ele
or
r
ice
off
e
ctiv
ele
an
shall entitle him ;
which such positions
to
tes
vo
or
te
vo
the
cast
icer or Past Grand
t su ch Grand Lodge off
tha
r,
ve
we
ho
ed
vid
pro
te afforded the Past
be entitled to cast the vo
t
no
all
sh
r
ice
off
e
dg
Lo
rson seeking to cast
In each instance the pe
e.
dg
Lo
a
of
rs
ste
Ma
his possession the
absentees must have in
or
e
nte
se
ab
of
tes
vo
the
sentee or absentees .
credentials of such ab
Respectfully submitted,
. 378
Jesse W. White, PM No
8
37
.
No
SW
,
Jo hn A. Scheich
ris pru de nc e:
The Committee on Ju
vide for a vote in
No 91 -24 seek to pro
ion
lut
so
Re
of
nts
ne
The pro po
Secretary to cast
tary and to permit the
cre
Se
e
dg
Lo
ch
ea
for
Grand Ldoge
en they are all absent.
Master and Wardens wh
the vo tes of an absent
nts , the following
intent of the propone
the
h
lis
mp
co
ac
to
In order
d and circulated .
Resolution as propose
the
to
d
de
ad
be
all
sh
amendment
and Composition of
Article II "Jurisdiction
t
tha
ed
olv
res
r
the
Be it fur
California Ma so nic
and Address", of the
rs
be
em
"M
8
c.
Se
e",
Grand Lo dg
Master, Wardens and
14 to read, "...and the
line
at
d
de
en
am
be
Co de shall
ent Lodges..."
ered an d duly constitu
art
ch
l
era
sev
the
of
Secretaries
affirmative vo te is
end ou r law an d a 5/6
am
to
s
ek
se
ion
lut
so
This Re
required for adoption.
se s:
licy an d Ge ne ral Pu rpo
The Co mmittee on Po
y
each Lodge Secretar
lution wo uld grant to
y
the
ich
wh
te
vo
Approval of this Reso
whole single
dg e Communication a
Lo
d
In
an
e.
Gr
dg
at
Lo
red
d
an
iste
reg
mber of Gr
wh o might not be a me
and
do no t now have and
r officers were absent
nio
se
t if all the Lodge's
tha
s
ll.
se
we
po
as
pro
tes
it
,
vo
ir
ion
addit
mi gh t cast the
d their credentials, he
sse
sse
po
y
tar
cre
Se
the
t not "requested an d ex
ies are encouraged , bu
e
dg
Lo
e,
dg
Lo
While Lodge Secretar
eting at Grand
usual Secretaries' me
pected" to attend the
es wit h the responsibility
re
ceremonies we charg
ion
lat
tal
ins
ir
the
at
rs
Maste
ny Lodge Secretarie.s are
d Lodge if possible. Ma
an
Gr
g
din
en
att
lly
tua
of ac

GRAND LODGE OF

THE
PROCEEDINGS OF

230

es
sters of their Lodg
st ma
Pa
nor wthe
e.
dg
Lo
ir
to

an d cast the single

Past Master's ballo

rposes recomm
licy an d General Pu
ur Comminee on Po
Yo
vote.
Resolution NOT AD

t

ends a "N o"

OPTED.

EN DA TI ON S TO BE
STER 'S RE CO MM
MA
O
AN
GR
ES
REQUIR
MITS TIME FOR
S IN ADVANCE, LI
AY
00
18
D
TE
IT
SUBM
ES CO MM IT TE E
S, ANOPRECLUD
RT
PO
RE
E
TE
IT
CO M M
LUTIONS
AC TI ON ON RESO
NG
DI
EN
MM
CO
FR OM RE

(91-25)

e Grand Master to
seeks to require th
ion
lut
so
Re
is
th
the Annual Co m The pr op on en t of
st 180 da ys pr io r to
lea
at
ns
tio
da
en
and Lodge of the
su bm it his Recomm
presentation to Gr
the
r
fo
e
tim
e
th
it
Resolutions an d
munication, to lim
ports pertaining to
re
e
itte
mm
Co
e
dg
of their report,
various Grand Lo
mmittees , as a pa rt
Co
e
lud
ec
pr
to
d
an
,
or RecommenRecommendations
tion of a Resolution
jec
re
or
n
tio
op
ad
recommending
m n.
frotio
da

A.M. of California:
fu l Gr an d Lo dg e, F.&
To the M os t Worship
er s the general me mb
sonic Co de require
in
Ma
de
ia
rn
Co
lifo
nic
Ca
so
the
Ma
,
WHEREAS
e California
th
to
ts
en
dm
en
Annual
os ed am
da te of the next
sh ip to submit pr op
e commencement
th
to
ior
pr
ys
da
180
wr itin gun
d
Comm ication; an
nic
the California Ma so
tary is required by
cre
of
Se
d
py
an
co
a
Gr
te
the
,
da
ce me nt
WHEREAS
ys to that co mm en
da
d
60
an
st
;
lea
es
at
dg
t
Lo
mi
l
Co de to trans
to him to the severa
solution presented
ea ch and every Re
d its
several Lodges an
th er eb y permit the
ns
lled
tio
ro
ac
nt
co
se
a
the
in
,
dments
WHEREAS
discuss these amen
d
an
w
vie
re
to
e
me mb er s tim
environment ; and
ster
pt s the Grand Ma
Masonic Code ex em
d
ia
rn
an
lifo
ion
Ca
ss
e
cu
th
,
dis
l review,
WHEREAS
y prohibiting a ful
eb
er
th
the
nt,
g
me
irin
ire
qu
re
fro m this requ
l Lodges; thereon
ren in their severa
eth
Br
all
by
te
ba
de

CALIFORNIA

231

th er eby at
tions
daate
enleg
mm
s. ,
n his Reco
de
e
th
.
o
stily ~p
t somewhat hasta
on g
delegates to acso
nder ndings am
su
mi
e
m
ing
us
times ca
aph of
st paragrfol
that thed fir
as low s:
SOLVED am
ad
re
to
de
en
BE IT ~E Cod e be
ORE,
EREF
, TH
NOW
lifornia Masonic
Ca
the
of
0
16
on
Secti
Annual Comat its po
Lo dg ean
. G~and
d re rts. All su ch
.
ns
tio
olu
business. m
The transaction of
tary at least 180
e; t~! Grand Secre
r:
w
on
up
be
all
sh
Annual Co m munications
o t date of the next
ent
es
pr
be
st
mu
s
not ap ply
ion
Resolut
t this restriction shallr wh
t~
me
ce
en
m~
co
~
ich are
th
to
da ys pr ior
of the Grand Maste
e; rt.
ow
d,
Comide
al
ov
nu
pr
An
,
e
mu nic at ion
R a ieRsr sented atttethrs which m ay be
le
ff
"'
ee
R~
6
a.R
s
ion
cis
to De
nt ma
itten message P e
included in his wr
pon consent of five-sixths
rg~
_ne
etr
all it ap ply to
sh
r
stricno
,
ion
at
nic
mu
d further that this re
red at an~ ime ide
ide
ns
co
rt of
d
po
an
~e
a
ted
of
presen
fo rm a part
esent, ~;ns ~~~ch
pr
s
er
and
mb
Gr
s
me
e
thi
th
vote of
the law of
solut ort t 0 amend
Re
to
ply
ap
t
no
all
tio n sh
do no t pu rp
a Committee and
Lo dg e.
of said Co de be
that Se cti on 500
ED
LV
SO
RE
R
HE
BE IT FURT
en
am ded to read :
esented
all be pr
titution sh
his Consion
d Secretary
an
Gr
e
th
to
at
dment to t nd encement date of the next
Any pr op os ed am~n
. or Recomme
on
by written R~solut1
, that this restrict iond
to theid~m~owever
or
pr~
Gran
y~
da
0
18
at least
~ eefflffleR6alieRsesofenthe
ov
pr
n:
1~
at
nc
at the
ur
mm
ted
Co
Annual
wr~en message pr gent matters
s
a~
~
on
s1
c1
De
.
to
ply
ap
t
er
shall no
ap ply to em
cl.u de d in h1 hall it
ns en t
Master wh ich are .m
at any tim e up on co
ed
.
s
r
no
,
on
at1
s an d
Annual Commurnc
All su ch Resolution
on
ted andbcons%~ent
en
ee
es
itt
m
pr
m
be
Co
ay
e
m
th
wh ich
d. to
s pf
er
m
me
the
of
te
ken.
offive-sixths vo
before a vote is ta
all be ~e t~~:on
sh
s
he r
o~
ot
ti
to
d
da
re
en
fer
Re comm
ay be re
all repo ndations m
sh
of
ich
rts
wh
po
~e
re
de
e
th
ru
Jurisp
wever that
Becomme 'ded ho
im
d
a~
as
s
its
ion
lim
lut
e
so
tim
Re
Said
t th e same
d
l
~v
pr
rt.
po
re
eir
for th
ect _o -- - - - st a proposal an .
Committees ·u
s shall be sub1
eakjo for or again ntain a recom.
ee
all co
such Comm1
entatiy~s sp jtteecreoportosshjtjon to any proposal.
posed up on repres
.
at ~o om m
shall
0
proyided further. th
presented the vote
or
~
r
vo
fa
ID
te
fo r a vo saia GofflR'Httee is
mendatjon
When the re po rts ef
endment.
be taken on the am

R

'?

a':

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IT FURTHER RESOLVED th
said BE
Code
be amended to read:
at the last sente

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

nce of Section 1206 of

Upon referral it shall report wheth
.
is consi
stent with th
er any actio
n taken or proposed
Lodge. nrovided h e general purposes and polici
es of the Grand
..____ _ . _oweyer. that the regort 0 f 'd c
.
not contain a recommendation
~ saio~m1ttee
may
to any groposed amendment. or a yote in
favor of or ID oppositjon

1

BE
amen
dedITtoFURT
read :HER RESOLVED that Section 4000

of said Code be

Any proposed amendment to th
by written Reso
lution or Reco m:e ord.1nances shall be presented
at least 180 days ·
endation to the Grand Secretary
Annual Communic!;:~~ to :h~d:mm ence men
t date of the next
shall not apply to Decisio~so~~
however· t~t this restriction
Master which are included in hi
~;offlffleAaal10As of the Grand
Annual Communication nor s~ ~r' it en message
presented at the
which may be presented and con~ ·
apply to :mer gent matters
of five-s ixths vote of the membe
idered at any time upon consent
Reco mme ndati ons shall be rs p;esent. All such
Resolutions and
Jurisprudence which shall repo~e t~red to the
Com mitte e on
Said Resolutions and Recommend r reon befor
e a vote is taken .
Committees for their repo rt provjd!Jo~s may be
referred to other
such Committees shall be sub· t . owever.
that
the
tim r repor
· ts· of
posed upon representatives s iec. to the same
;e1 m1t s as 1mproyided further. that no co:~~Jmg for or agam
st a proposal and,
mendation for a vote in favor of e~ report s.h.all
conta in a recomWhen the reports_ of saia Goff! . or opoosrtion
to any proposal.
be taken on the amendment. ffi1llee is are prese
nted the vote shall

carry out the intent of the proponents.

Lodges is adequate to

This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a

5/6 affirmative vote is

required for adoption.
The Committee on Polic y and General Purp oses:

This Resolution would chan ge our law in three distin
ct ways. First of all ,
it would prevent the Grand Maste r from maki
ng any recommendations
during the last 180 days before Grand Lodge.
Second , it would limit the
length of each committee report concerning a Reso
lution to the same time
limits imposed upon a member speaking from
the floor. Third . it would
prohibit committees in general, and Policy and Gene
ral Purposes
Committee in particular, from making any recom

R

mendation concerning
the passage of a Resolution . We oppose each chan
ge.

'?

There is good reason why the Grand Master
is exempted from the
normal requirement that any Resolution must
be subm itted 180 days in
advance of the annual communication. During this
extensive travels around
the jurisdiction, and throu gh his day-to-day incolv
ement in the operation of
the Grand Lodge, a Grand Master becomes aware
of pro blems. and potential solutions to problems, in a way to a d egree which
the rest of the Fraternity
does not. He .is exempted from the 180-day limit
so that he can present
those ideas to the Grand Lodge for its prompt consi
deration, even though
those problems or solutions may not have come
to his attent ion until the
second six months of his term. We do not think that
the potential for a hasty
dece ision or for misunderstand ing is so g reat that
those "late" rec omm endations should be prohibited .

Respectfully submitted.
Billy A. McVey, PM No. 791
The Committee on Jurisp ruden ce:

The propo
of Resolution No 91
Master to submnent
it his Recomme
nd t'
-25
to require the Grand
.
a ions at leastseeks
180 d
·
omm
umca
tion,
to
limit
the
time
for
th
C
.
ays
pnor to the Annual
various Grand Lodge C
e presentation to Grand Lodge of the
ee Reports p rt · ·
Recommendations and omm
to preclud C
e am1ng to Resolutions and
from recommendin'g adoption
~
o.mm
lttees
, as a part of their repor
datio n.
or reiection of a Resolution or Recomment~
i
' tt

The legislation as distributed to the Constituent

233

Turning to the secon d proposal--that of limiting the
length of comm ittee
reports--we note that all the recitals of the Resolution
are directed solely to
the first proposal. Nowhere does the proponent
explain why limits should
be placed on the length of a comm ittee's report.
Nevertheless. it is not hard to understand the reaso
ning behing this pa rt
of the Resolution . We understand, and we share
in, the frustration that the
delegates feel when a committee report concerning
a Resolution is three or
four minutes in length, and yet the proponent
of that Resolution has his
microphone cut off alter two minutes. And since
this committee reports on
every Resolution . we are not surprised that a good
deal of that frustration is
directed at us.

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We submit to you, however, that such frustration is misdir
ected . What
is the source of this inequity? The problem is not that
committee reports
are too long, but that the opportunity to speak from
the floor is too short.
The solution, therefore, is not to reduce the length of the
committee reports,
but to eliminate the arbitrary restrictions on the length
of floor debate by
delegates.

PROVIDES FOR ALL COMMITTEE REPORTS ON

Finally , the third aspect of the Resolution seeks to preve
nt any committee from voicing support for or opposition to the pendi
ng Resolution. Once
again, no reason for this radical change is offered by
the proponent, and we
can find none ourselves. We feel that there are good
reasons why each
committee which reports, whether it be Finance, Ritual
, Policy and General
Purposes, or some other committee to which the
proposal has been
referred, should be allowed to advise the delegates
of that committee's
evaluation of the merits of the proposal.
After all, it is you. the members of Grand Lodge , who
decide what the
decisions and policies of the Grand Lodge shall be,
not the committees.
Legislative proposals are referred to those committees
only because the
committees are expected to have some degree of exper
tise in the subject.
The committees then report to you so that your vote
can be based on the
most complete and most authoritative information availa
ble.
This restriction is poorly advised as to the report of any
committee, but
especially those of Policy and General Purposes. This
committee exists for
the sole purpose of evaluating and reporting on legisla
tive proposals. Our
very function is to say whether, in our opinion, a
particualr proposal is
consistant with the policy and direction of the Grand
Lodge ; in short, our
pupos e is to advise Grand Lodge . There is no way
that we can fulUI that
purpose, unless we include that advice--that is, our recom
mendation --in our
report. Our entire report is a recommendation, togeth
er with an explanation
of the reasons behind it. If we are to be prohibited
from delivering that
advice, what function does the proponent envision
that this committee
would fulfill?
Because each of the three parts of this Resolution
is contrary to the
sound policy of the Grand Lodge, your Committee on
Policy and General
Purposes recommends a "No" vote on Resolution 91-25
.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

235

PROPOSED LEGISLATION TO BE DISTRIBUTED
IN
ADVANCE OF ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

(91-26)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to requi~e
the repo~~ of all
Committees on proposed Resolutions , Recommend
ations or Dec1s1ons to
be transmitted to the Masters of the several Lodges and
Inspectors at l~ast
60 days prior to the commencement date of the next
Annual Communication.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodg e, F.& A.M. of Califo

rnia:
WHEREAS, in recent years at the Annual Communic~t
ion the time
allowed for discussion and the number of speakers on
Resolutions has been
limited: and

WHEREAS there has been no time restriction on Comm
ittee reports
and most, if not 'an, of the time taken for their presentatio
n could be reduced
throu gh advanced publication of their report s: and
WHEREAS, present deadlines for submittin~ Resolutions
provide a?equate time for Committees to which the Resolutions
are refe:r~ to review
and prepare a report well In advance of the Annual Comm
unication ; and
WHEREAS, delegates and Lodge mem~ers s~ould
have Com~ ittee
reports in advance to consider and enable d1scuss1on
to take place 1n the
Lodge .
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Sectio
n 1108- 16th of the
California Masonic Code be amended to read as follow
s:
Transmit, at least 110. ~days prior to the commencem
ent date of
the next Annual Communication, a copy of each ane
e¥ery Resol_ution and Recommendation lawfully presented to him,
t~ethe r with
any Recommendations or Decisions made by that
time by the
Grand Master, Officers or Committees or Boards of
G ran~ Lod~e.
to the members of the Committee on Jurisprudence for
th~1r review
and any needed drafting or redrafting as proi,iiaoa_by
~oet1on 1204 ,
aRel also to an'I Comm i"eos to wl:lieh SlolSh le_€J1slat1on
has been
referred and ie transmit at least 1J..5_6G-days pnor to
the commencement 'date of the next Annual Communication, a
copy _of _each
Resolution, Recommendation and Decision presonteEI
to h1ffi in the

236

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

form approved by the Committee on Jurisprudence, together with
the brief statement of purpose and effect, as received from the
Committ~ on Jurisp~udence following its review, to the Commjtte~s to which such leg1slatjon bas been referred and at least 60 days
~nor to the ~ommencement date of the next Annual Communicat10~ transmit the same together with the reports of Committees to
which they have been referred. to the Masters of the several Lodges,
I ns~ctors, and members of the Committees on Jurisprudence,
Pal1ey a~ G~Aeral PuFJ*>ses and FiReAee all Committees to which
such legislation has been referred.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 1200 of said Code be
amended to read as follows:
Business of every k~nd shall be r~ferred to and reported upon-e ~
one or ~ore Comm1tte~ before it can be finally acted upon, unless
by unanimous consent such reports are excused. , aA6 wf::leAe¥ef
FefeFFeEl to ff'IOFe tf::leA OAe Gofflfflittee. all suel=t Gofflfflittees sf::lell
repeft tf::lereoA eefore BAY vote SAell ee tal(eA iA tf::le GraA6 Lo0\7je
'
\Alf::l
or Gol'fll'flittees, is preseAteEl'
nere t Ae repoft of tf::le Gol'fll'fl1ltee,
tl'le vote sl=lall 0e talEeA UJ*>A tl=le eusiAess as ori~iAall· · preseAteEl
Y
·
Eac.h .Co~m1ttee
or·
to which any Resolution. Becommendatjon
Pec1s1on 1s referred shall transmit. at least 80 days prior to the
~om~encement date of the next Annual Communication. its report.
m wnt1ng, to the Grand Secretary.
~E IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the last paragraph of Section 1204

of said Code be amended to read as follows:

237

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the last sentence of Section 1206 of
said Code be amended to read as follows:
Upon referral it shall report .. jn wrjtjng. whether any action t~k.en or
proposed is consistent with the general purposes and pohc1.es of
the Grand Lodge and transmit its report. at least 75 days pnor to
the commencement date of the next Annual Communication. to the
Grand Secretary.
Respectfully submitted ,
E. Arthur Haglund, PM No. 480
Stanley L. Channon, PM No. 259
Jack R. Levitt, PM No. 35
Leo B. Mark, PM No. 10
Raymond A. Young, PM No. 499

Larry R. Ard, PM No. 41
Don H. Freitas. PM No. 480
Ralph H. Head. PM No. 352
Harold A. Macy, PM No. 769
Rodney 0 . Wineberg. PM No. 436

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The proponents of Resolution No 91-26 seek to re~uire the r~p?rts of
all committees on proposed Resolutions, recommendations or decisions to
be transmitted to the Masters of the several Lodges and Inspectors at l~ast
60 days prior to the commencement date of the next Annual Commun1ca ·
tion.
The legislatiQn as distributed to the Constituent Lodges is adquate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
required for adoption.

Upon the receipt from the Grand Secretary of proposed Resolutions
and ~ec.ommendations to be considered at the next Annual Commun1cat1on, and Recommendations or Decisions of the Grand
Master: Officers ~r Committees or Boards of Grand Lodge, the
C~mmit1ee on Junspr~ence shall review them and prepare legislation as may by required, together with a brief statement of the
purpos~ and effect of them by the Grand Lodge and which will carry
99-<:lays
o~ the intent of the proponents and transmit, at least
~nor to the commencement date of the next Annual Communication, a copy of any and all such Resolutions and Recommendations
and Decisions together with the brief statement of purpose and
effect of each to the Grand Secretary.

w

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This Resolution would add BO more days in advance of Annual Communications of the Grand Lodge for the Grand Secretary's office to prepare
copies of proposed legislation for submission to various committees. Thus,
no legislation could be received in his office whi~hin 5 months and 20 da~s
of the Communication if it is intended to be considered at the current year s
Communication.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes now meets just prior
to, as well as during, the Communication in order to review pro~sed
legislation and to have the opportunity to meet with any proponent, either
at the request of the proponent or at the request of the committee so as to
clarify his intent.

238

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Many other committees to whom proposed legislation is referred mett
during the Annual Communication and separate meetings prior thereto
should not be necessary.
In order that copies of their reports could be circulated to the membership at least 60 days prior to the Communication, as required by this
Resolution, it is obvious that committees to whom Resolutions are referred
would have to hold meetings prior to that 60 day limit. This would result in
unnecessary added expense to the Grand Lodge and could deter
proponents from meeting with committees unless they were able to be
present at the designated time of such meetings. Withour hearing
proponents statements, a committee might not make accurate recommendations in all situations.
We believe that the best interests of the proponents of amendments. as
well as those of the delegates to Grand Lodge, are best served by the manner
in which proposed legislation is handled presently.
Your Committee recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Finance:

The Finance Committee does not believe that the results of this
proposed Resoltuion will enhance the discussions of the speakers on the
Resolutions during the Annual Communications and therefoe the additional
costs of the additional meetings required to comply with the proposed
Resolution, which are estimeated at a minimum of $5,000.00 , are not
justified. Therefore, your Committee on Finance recommends a "No" vote.

239

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& AM. of California :
WHEREAS, most Masons are concerned about r:nany losses ~f
Freemasonry, including loss of membership. loss of prestige and recognition. loss of attracting officers. loss of informed Masons; and
WHEREAS the Grand Lodge of California needs to evaluate ce~ain
fundamental ch~nges by detailing analysis and specific recommendations
to overcome these losses; and
WHEREAS, the Grand Master and the Executive Con:r:nittee do .not
have sufficient time to address and evaluate the peopl.e, cnt1c~I orgarn~a­
tions, policy and procedural matters facing our Frat~rn1ty, nor is any entity
within Grand Lodge performing this important function; and
WHEREAS those responding to the 1990 Interim Report of the Long
Range Plannin~ Committee have given overwhelm!~~ su~port (80-90 pt.us
percent) to the overall recommended objectives, c~1t1ca~ issues, strategies
and goals which were recommended by the Committee. and
WHEREAS, surveys have confirmed that the Breth.r~n desire that changes be made to achieve improvements within the trad1t1~nal ~~~.e system
to enhance the quality of Freemasonry and improve its v1s1b11tty 1n the
community; and
WHEREAS, to accomplish these goals in a timely and consistent
manner, it is essential that strategic long range plans be developed and
updated based on continued in-depth study; and
WHEREAS continuity of annual plans, recommendations and actions
which are consi~tent with the long range goals and obje~!ives endorsed by
the Brethren should be substituted for intuition and trad1t1on.

Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that paragra~h A of Section

ESTABLISHES LONG RANGE PLANNING

1202 of the California Masonic Code be amended by ~dd1ng, a~ong the

AS STANDING COMMITTEE

Standing Committees consisting of nine members, on .line.. 4, after ,he term
"Temple Properties", the words "on Long Range Planning.

(91-27)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to establish the Long Range
Planning Committee as a Standing Committee of Grand Lodge and to
specify its responsibilities.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 1209 be added to said Code
to read:
§J 209. The Committee on Long Range Planning shall develop an.d

update, on a continuing basjs, strate.glc lo?g ~ange plans !or this
Grand Lodge, and shall provide plannmg guidelmes and assistance.

240

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

~o other Grand Lodge Commit tees so as to develop annual

operating pl~ns tha~ are consist ent with the goals. objectiv es and
strategies of this Grand Lodge.
The Commit tee may utilize information from any sources deemed
appropr iate in order:
a. to revjew the current concern s of Freemasonry:
b. to project the future needs of the Fraternity in Calforn ja·
c . to assess the result of actions bejng taken by other Grand
Lodges :
d . to .co~duct studies on a wide variety of matters relating to the
orgarnzat1on and busines s of this Grand Lodge· the relatjonships
between Grand Lodge. the constitu ent Lodges and the concord ant
and app~ndant bodi7s of Freemasonry: between Grand Lodge and
the public:. the charitab le entities of this Grand Lodge: and other
matters of importa nce to the welfare of Masonr y in California: and
e. to recomm~nd courses of action to this Grand Lodge to develop
propose d action plans and impleme nt the same when reauested to
do so by the Grand Master.
The membe rs of the Commit tee shall be appoint ed by successive
Grand Masters for terms of three years each. provide d. however.
that the terms of one-thir d of said membe rs shall expire at the close
of the Annual Comn;iunication each year. When a vacancy occurs.
the n;iember appoint ed to fill that vacanc y shall serve for the
remainder of the unexpir ed term of the membe r replaced A member. however. can be removed by the Grand Master at any time.
Respectfully submitted,
E. Arthur Haglund, PM No. 480
Stanley L. Channon, PM No. 259
Jack R. Levitt, PM No. 35
Leo B. Mark, PM No. 1O
Raymon d A. Young, PM No. 499
Resolution WITHDRAWN.

Larry R. Ard, PM No. 41
Don H. Freitas, PM No. 480
Ralph H. Head. PM No. 352
Harold A. Macy, PM No. 769
Rodney 0. Wineberg, PM No. 436

241

PROVID ES FOR REVISION IN APPOIN TMENT , TERMS AND NUMBE

R

OF MEMBE RS OF MASON IC HOMES ENDOW MENT BOARD
(91-28)
The propone nt of this Resolution seeks to increase the number
of
members, to specify three year terms, and to provide an organizational
structur e for the Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board similar to and consistent with other Constitutional Boards.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHERE AS, other Constitutional Boards provide for three year appoint
ments and an increase in the number of membe rs of the Masonic Homes
Endowm ent Board would permit the terms of one-third of the membe
rs to
expire each year thus preserving the needed experie nce level and providin
g
for continu ity in the program s of the said Board; and
WHERE AS, the membe rs of said Board require an extensive knowled ge
of the Masonic Homes and it takes at least a year in the position to become
effective in the perform ance of their duties: and
WHERE AS, the duties of the Board membe rs require that visitatio ns be
made to the constitu ent Lodges to present program s relating to the Masoni
c
Homes requirin~ some of the Board membe rs to travel conside rable distances which creates a deterren t to getting new people to accept appoint ments;
and
WHERE AS, four addition al Board membe rs would reduce travel expen
ses and improve effectiveness: and
WHERE AS, the Masonic Homes Endowm ent Board is charged with the
respons ibility to solicit and raise monies for the continu ed service
and
mainten ance of the Masonic Homes of California: and
WHERE AS, the Endowm ent Board has had difficult y in filling vacanci es
because of travel and other demand s, thus limiting the effectiveness
of the
Board ; and
WHERE AS, the Endowm ent Board is funded by the Masoni c Homes of
California and not by the per capita tax of Grand Lodge; and
WHERE AS, the Masoni c Homes Endowm ent Board is one of the five
Constitu tional Boards: and

242

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS, there exists inconsistencies in the structure of the Constitutional Boards; and

SEEKS STATED MEETINGS IN FIRST DEGREE

WHEREAS, there is a need to completely revise Sections 1402 and t 404
of Article IV to make it consistent with other Constitutional Boards.

The proponent of this Resolution seeks to have Stated Meetings held in
the Entered Apprentice Degree but with only Master Masons eligible to vote.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 1402 of the
California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lcxige, F.& A.M. of California:

The Directors of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board of California shall eoAsist of he thirty-{lioo fi-Ye memeers in number appointed
by lfte. successjye Grand Masters. The term of apooioted Directors
shall be three years from jusl Before the dose of 1he. eaeJ:t Annual
Communication. provided however. that the terms of one-third of
the Directors shall expire at the close of the Annual Communication
each year. If a Director shall serve three full consecutive terms he
shall be ineligible for reappointment until the lapse of one year.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 1404 of said Code be
amended to read as follows:
The Directors Ct:leirFReA of the Board shall organize Be Aamee B'J'
tA€ ~raAEl Master aAEl sAElll seF't·e fer OAe ·tear. Tl-le Beare ffiEl'J'
~ro·;1ee fer ~the election of suet-I otl-ler officers each year at the
close ~f the A~nual Communication aA6 em~lo'y'ees as it FREI';
Elelerffi1Ae; provided , however, that the Grand Treasurer shall always be the Secretary of the Endowment Board. The Board
subject to the approval of the Grand Master, may adopt, and fro~
~ime t~ time ~hange or amend such rules and regulations governing
rts d~l1berat1ons. modes of procedure, and the like, as may be
reqwred and as shall best enable it, faithfully, efficiently and successf.ul!y to carry out the true spirit, intent and purpose of its
creation. The Grand Master shall at all times have the right of
visitation and inspection and may remove a Director at any time
~pon the request of two-thirds of the Directors, and appoint another
10 the place of the person removed for the unexpired term of the
replaced Director

(91-29)

WHEREAS, it is desirable that all persons becoming members of the
Masonic Fraternity develop an early appreciation of the nature and stature
of our organization ; and
WHEREAS, nothing transpires at a Stated Meeting which is unfit or
Improper for the ears of an Entered Apprentice or Fellowcraft Mason; and
WHEREAS, an often lengthy period of time passes between a
candidate's initiation, and through no fault of his own, his obtaining the
sublime degree of Master Mason; and
WHEREAS, the present practice of holding all Stated Meetings in the
Third Degree prevents Entered Apprentice and Fellowcraft Masons from
observing and studying the inner workings of a Masonic Lodge, though such
study and observation would be beneficial to their Masonic education in
regard to the California Masonic Code and the charitable work we strive to
achieve; and
WHEREAS, it is desirable to permit immediate involvement by Initiates.
which would be beneficial to the Lodge by faster advancement of the
candidates through the degrees.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the second sentence of
Section 2034 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
All business, except the examination of applicants and the conferring of the first aAd second and third degrees. shall be done in a
Lodge of Entered Apprentice Ma64ef Masons. Only Master Masons
shall be eligible to vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Respectfully submitted,

John M. Palmer, PM No. 315

Sidney Kitchens, PM No. 753

Resolution WITHDRAWN.

243

244

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Committee on Jurispru dence:
:he propone nts of Resolution No 91-29 seek to have Stated Meetin
s
held in the Entered Apprent ice Degree but with only Master Masons
to vote.

eligib~e

The legisl.ation as distribu ted to the Constituent Lodges is adequa te t
0
carry out the intent of the proponents.
~his Resoluti~n seeks to amend our law and a 5/6 affirmat
ive vote ·
required for adoptio n.
is

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Res?lution 91-29 seeks to have Stated Meetings held in the Entered
Appren tice Degree but with only Master Masons eligible to vote.
Resolution 91-30 has the same objective, but at the option of the Master.
C

Si~ce the obj~ctives of both Resolutions are similar, this report
of the
ommitte e on Polley and General Purposes applies to both Resolutions.

.
In a ~urvey of Grand Lodges in 1990, it was learned that most Loo es
in the United States hold their Stated Meetings in the Master Mason
wEhereas many ~anadian Lodges may hold their Stated Meetings on
the
ntered Apprentice Degree.

deg~ee

We have been taught that Masonr y is a progressive moral science
ta.ught by degrees oliy. During each degree, the candidate is asked
if h
wishes to proceed. Upon
of the three degrees, the candida t:
beco~es a Master Mason and is entitled to all the rights
and privileges until
that t1~e. the candidate does not pay dues and is not entitled to v ·
0t
speak m the Lcxlge (CMC 2422) .
e or

co~pletion

·n The Commi~ee feels ~hat the argume nts presented by the propone
nts
1 su~port of their Resolutions do not justify a change in a long establis
hed
practice. There would u.ndou~tedly be confusion as the brethren rise
to
addres.s the Master and give an inappropriate sign out of force of habit
This
confu~ion would be further enhanced by permitting the Master at his o . tion
decide whethe r a Stated Meeting should be held on the Entered
tice Degree or the Master Mason Degree.

t?

A~ren~

It i~ desirable ~~r the ~andidate to learn as much as he can about the
fraternity.and part1c1pate m the social affairs of the Lcxlge while he is
still
progres sing through the degrees. These objectives can be met without

245

sitting in a Stated Meeting. In many Lodges , the candida tes attend
the
Stated Meeting dinners and other Lodge functions and spend time w ith
their
coache s while the Stated Meeting or other meeting s are in progress.
There is certainly no restriciton on Entered Appren tices attending social
functions.
The propone nts both propose that only Master Masons be eligible to
vote. This restriciton could be a form of embarrassment to those who
were
not Master Masons If they were sitting in the Lcxlge during a Stated Meeting
.
The Commit tee is convinc ed that the objectiv es of the propone nts w ith
respect to the candida te's involvement can be adequately met without
holding the Stated Meetings on the Entered Apprentice Degree. We therefore rcomme nd a "No" vote on Resolutions 91 -29 and 91-30.

The Committee on Ritual:
The Commit tee on Ritual views this as a questio n of policy only. If it is
adopted , we will become involved to the extent necessary to implem ent
it.
Therefore. we make no report at this time.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

PROVIDES OPTION TO HOLD STATED MEETIN GS IN FIRST DEGRE

E

(91-30)
The propone nts of this Resolution seek to permit Stated Meetings to be
held, at the option of the Master, in the Entered Apprent ice Degree but
only
Master Masons would be eligible to vote.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHEREAS, Section 2034 of the California Masoni c Ccxle requires that
all business be done in a Lcxlge of Master Masons, effectively discour aging
candida tes particip ation in any social events held in conjunc tion with
the
meeting; and
WHERE.AS, Section 2422 of the California Masoni c Ccxle prohibit s
Entered Apprentices from speaking when attendin g a Lodge.
NOW, THERE FORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the second sentence of
Section 2034 of the California Masoni c Code be amended to read as follows:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

246

essive moral science
We have been taught that Masonry is a progr
idate is asked if he
cand
the
ee,
taug ht by degrees only. During each degr
ees, the candidate
degr
three
the
wishes to proceed. Upon completion of
privileges . Until
and
rights
the
all
to
ed
becomes a Master Mason and is entitl
ed to vote or
entitl
not
is
and
dues
that time, the candidate does not pay
speak in the Lodge (CMC 2422) .

pt the examination
At the ~ptjon of the Master. AAam! business, exce
aA6 second and third
of applicants and the conferring of the first
Entered Apprentice
degrees. !Ilal'. ~ be done in a Lodge of
ed to participate in
~ Ma~ons. with all members mesent entitlentitl
ed to introduce
the ~1scuss10n. s>nly Master Masons shall be
motions and ehg1ble to vote.

nted by the proponents
The Committee feels that the arguments prese
in a long established
ge
chan
a
y
in support of their Resolutions do not justif
the brethren rise to
as
sion
confu
be
practice. There would undoubtedly
force of habit. This
of
out
sign
ate
ropri
address the Master and give an inapp
er, at his option,
Mast
the
itting
perm
by
confusion would be further enhanced
held on the Entered Apprento decide whether a Stated Meeting should be
tice Degree or the Master Mason Degree.

Respectfully submitted,
Donald C. Reifsteck, WM No. 46
Hoyt W. Scott, PM No. 46
Charles V. Hewitt. SW No. 46
The Committee on Juris prud ence :
to permit Stated Meetin s
The proponents.of Resolution No 91-30 seek
red Apprentice Degree b~t
to be held, at the option of the master, in the Ente
only Master Masons would be eligible to vote.
The legislaton as distributed to the Cons
amended as follows:

tituent Lodges h

in

been

examination of
a b d

exce pt the
~t the option of the Master, any business. third
degrees

~pplrcants and the conferring of the second and

as

ns. Only Master M~s~n~
~ Lodg~ of Entered ApprenticebeMaso
elibable to vote.

s~I~~=

entitled to mtroduce motions and
As Amended, the legis
proponents.

the
lation is adequate to carry out the intent of

~his Resoluti~n seeks to

amend our law and a 5/6 affirmative vote is

required for adoption.

The Committee on Policy and General Purp

oses:

ings held in the Entered
Res?lution 91-29 seeks to have Stated Meet
le to vote.
eligib
ns
Maso
Apprentice Degree but with only Master
Reso
C

option of the Master.
lution 91-30 has the same objective, but at the
report of the

r, this
Si~ce the obj~ctives of both Resolutions are similaboth
Resolutions.

es to
ommittee on Policy and General Purposes appli

learned that most Lad es
In a ~urvey of Grand Lodges in 1990, it was
.
in the Master Mason de ;ee
rn the United States ho!d their Stated Meetings
~anad1an Lodges may hold their Stated Meetings ongthe
~htereedasAmany t1ce
Degree.
ppren
n er

247

I

I

I
)

as he can abou t the
It is desirable for the candidate to learn as much
of the Lodge while he is still
fraternity and participate in the social affairs
tives can be met without
progressing through the degrees. These objec
es, the candidates attend the
sitting in a Stated Meeting. In man y Lodg
ions and spend time with their
Stated Meeting dinners and other Lodge funct
ings are in progress.
coaches while the Stated Meeting or other meet
There is certainly no restriciton on Entered Appr
functions.

entices attending social

er Masons be eligible to
The proponents both propose that only Mast
rrassment to those who were
vote. This restriciton could be a form of emba
e during a Stated Meeting.
not Master Masons if they were sitting in the Lodg
of the proponents with
The Committee is convinced that the objectives
be adequately met without
respect to the candidate's involvement can
Apprentice Degree. We thereholding the Stated Meetings on the Entered
9 and 91 -30.
fore rcommend a "No" vote on Resolutions 91-2
The Committee on Ritual:

it did on the previous
The Committee on Ritual merely reports as
report.
no
make
resolution . This is a matter of policy and we
Resolution NOT ADOPTED .
be calle
Grand Lodge was called off at 11 :30 a.m., to
p.m.

d on again at 1 :15

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TUESDAY AFTERNOON

WHE REA S, this is unfai r and inequitable to
those mem bers who ~ve
faithfully conti nued their mem bersh ip by payin
g their dues or been remitted,
in a cons tituen t Lodg e.

OCTOBER 15, 1991
At 1:15 p.m. Grand Lodg e was called on, Gran
d Mast er Sherod presiding. This sess ion of the Com muni catio n was
raised by Don A Gelger, a Past
Mast er of Long Beach No. 327 and Co-Chairm
an of the Gran d Master's Golf
Clas sics Com mitte e. The gavel used was
one presented to the Gran d
Mast er by his tow Lodg es, Bixby Knolls Nept
ue No. 699 and international
City No. 389 at a reception for him in Long
Beac h.
Othe r gavels used durin g the Tuesday after
noon sess ion were those
presented by Pheonix Lodg e No. 178 at
a corne rston e layin g cere mony
celeb ratin g the 1OOth anniv ersar y of the Patto
n State Hospital and by the
Sacr amen to Area Maso nic Offic ers Associatio
n at a recep tion for the Gran d
Mast er.

249

NOW , THER EFO RE, BE IT RES OLVE D
that the third para~raph of
Sect ion 2436 of the California Maso nic Code
be amen ded to read .
In comp uting the lengt h of time requisite for
issuance of a 50 year
or 75 year award. perio ds durin g whic h the
Bro!her held a Dem it t6f
Rtefe tRafl efle yee.f fFeffl tRe date ef s~eR Deffl
it or was s~spended
for non- ymen t of dues must be added to
time ~hen said Broth er
woul d ~herwise have been eligib le to
recei ve such awar~.
provi ded. however, that the perio d between
the issuance of a Dem it
for the purp ose of beco ming a charter mem
ber o~ a new Lodg e ~nd
the institution of the new Lodg e is not an int~r
rupt1on of the required
numb er of years of conti nuou s mem bersh
ip.
Respectfully subm itted,

TIGH TENS COM PUT ATIO N OF TIME FOR
VETE RAN MAS ON AWA RDS

H. Francis Lewis, PM No. 192

Kenneth J. Brisbin, PM No. 87
Resolution WITHDRAWN.

(91·31)
The prop onen ts of this Resolution seek
to eliminate a provi sion in
curre nt Maso nic law allow ing up to one year
of time durin g whic h a Broth er
holds a Dem it to be inclu ded in calcu lating
his eligib ility for a 50 or 75 year
Veteran Maso n's Award .

GLA RIFIE S COM PUTA TION OF TIME FOR
VETE RAN MAS ON AWA RDS

(91·32)
To the Most Worshipful Gran d Lodge, F.& A.M.

of California :
WHE REA S, Section 2436 of our Maso nic
Code was originally estab lished by the mem bers of Gran d Lodg e in
1928, to provi de for the prese ntatio n of a Veteran's Award to those mem bers
of California Lodg es who had
been a Mast er Mason, in GOO D STANDING
, for fifty years or more ; and

The prop onen t of this Resolution seeks to
clarify curre nt MasonDic la~t
.
d · whic h a mem ber holds a em1
hich allows up to one year of time
unng
·
~be included in calculating his eligibility for a 50 or 75 year Vete
ran ~a:nbs
Awar d by provi ding that the Demit can be
from any Lodg e recogntz
y
this Gran d Lodg e.

WHE REA S, Section 2436 was amen ded in 1982
to provi de an exce ption
to this rule and there by provi ded for two class
es of 50 year recipients ; and

. f 1Grand Lodg e F & AM. of California :
To the Most Worsh1p
u
. ·
·

WHE REA S, this Award has always stood
for 50 years of mem bersh ip
in Good Stan ding and those mem bers who
take a Dem it have terminated
their mem bersh ip of their own free will and acco
rd. as stipulated in California
Maso nic Code Section 2432; and

WHE REA S the Gran d Lodg e of California does
not differentiate amon g
the several Gra~d Lodg es whic h it deem s "regu
lar"; and
WHE REA S, all "regularly made Broth ers"
and

are cons idere d to be equal:

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS, in 1982, the Grand Lodge of California amend
ed Section
2436 of the California Masonic Code to include a Brothe
r's first year on a
Demit to be used when computing his time "in good standi
ng" for eligibility
for the 50 and 75 year buttons; and

.
b d
not specify that a dlmit from a Lodge in
on those calculations, ut oes
w bel"
another jurisdiction w~l h~ve the.sa~ effect e ievethatt heRes olution
appropriately resolves this ambiguity.

WHEREAS, said amendment did not specify the source
Grand Jurisdiction of said Demit , and therefore has been the cause of
some confusion
since 1982.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the third paragr
aph of
Section 2436 of the California Masonic Code be amended
to read:
In computing the length of time requisite for issuance of a
50 year
or 75 year award , a period of up to one year during which the
Brother
held a Demit from any Lodge recognized by this Grand Lodge
, may
be jocluded. howeyer. periods during which the Brothe
r held a
Demit for more than one year from the date of the Demit
or was
suspended for non-payment of dues must be added to time
when
said Brother would otherwise have been eligible to receiv
e such
award, provided, however, that the period between the issuan
ce of
a Demit for the purpose of becoming a charter member
of a new
Lodge and the institution of the new Lodge is not an interru
ption of
the required number of years of continuous membership.
Respectfully submitted ,
W. Frank Postmus, PM No. 754
The Committee on Jurisprudence:

The proponent of Resolution No 91-32 seeks to clarify curren
t Masonic
law which allows up to one year of time during which a memb
er holds a dimit
to be included in calculating his eligibility for a 50 or 75 year
Veteran Mason's
Award by providing that the dlmit can be from any Lodge recogn
ized by this
Grand Ldoge .

251

Furthermore. by establishing the rule that, for the~e ~urpose~j
a Br~t~:~
. · ood standing during the first 12 months of a d1m1t, regar
ess ~ d
is in g
rticular ·urisdiction which issued the dimit, it allows our ran
law of the pa
. I
ithout researching the law of other
1
Ldoge todete rmme a Brother.s el'191"blityw
jurisdictions.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends

a "Yes"

vote.
Resolution ADOPTED.

ADVANCES ANNUAL ELECTION OF LODGE
OFFICERS TO NOVEMBER

(91-33)
The roponents of this Resolution seek to change the m~nth
of the
annual el~ction.of Lodge officers to the November Stated
Meeting.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of Califor

.

WHEREAS,ltIBonya
1 ~um
the office of Master; and

nia:
ed that the Senior warde n will advance to

WHEREAS, during the election. the Master three times asks

if there are

any further nominations; and
WHEREAS, during the Senior Warden's Retreat , the Senior

Wardens

are encouraged to plan ahead: and
The legislation as distributed to the Const ituent Lodges is
adequate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a 5/6 affirma
tive vote is
required for adoption.

.
ted t0 have appointed officers by
WHEREAS, the Master-elect 1s
expec
the time of installation; and
WHEREAS, most activities and recor d sof th e Lodges are on a calendar
year: and

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

This is another Resolution which seeks to modify the provis
ions regarding the Golden Veterans' Award . Current law explains the
effect of a dimit

WHEREAS, officers should send invitations to their Installa
names printed thereon; and

tion with their

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHE
S, the Senior Warden 0 0 th
put in the REA
awkw ard
embarrassin a r
er expe cted -to-b e Master-elect is
he will be elected t~ the offic e of ta~!.res
umptuous position of assuming

We do not see a need for this legislation
"No" vote.

be

~:e ~a~teder, Wardens, Treasurer and Secr
etary of each Lodg e shall
ec
annually at
stated me r
ARRi¥ersaf)' of SaiRt doARthe
tl:le EvaR!:jeliste ing ReKt
tl:le
e·· st
ewee13t U~t a Lo8!:je ~y
yar
8 HR !:I resoh:1tioR acfoJ3tee after
Rotie
e iR "'FitiR!:I to ..
meFReer of tl:le Lo8!:j
..
9i>E FFlORtR
e.. el')'
B e , 8J3J3FOve8
ey tRe GraR8 Mastwer, aR8 eftee
ti·t'e
9
eleetiOFl :a-~~~~:·.~: ~~R8BJ3J3FO~I,
J3f0¥
iee
tRet
tl:le
8RRl::
l81
t
9 a e FReetlFl@
h
The election shall be by ballot. A majo rity in Nove mbe r
of II the
eac
year.
be necessary for an election. The Lodg
e bya
cast shall
may permit any d ·
unan imou s consent
An
.
esignated officer to cast the ballo
t for the Lod e
held cont rary to the provisions of this Artic
le

,

REQUIRES MAS TER -ELE CT TO BE QUA

13reeeei~

(91-3 4)
The prop onen ts of this Resolution seek
to require the Master-elect to
obta in a Certificate certifying that he is qual
ified in Lodg e Man agem ent and
that qualification criteria for Lodg e office
r's beco me a part of the Lodg e
Manual and Insp ecto rs Manual.

shall~

To the Mos t Worshipful Gran d Lodg e, F.&

A.M. of California:
WHEREAS, Grand Lodg e has for year
s been offering work shop s,
retreats and other prog rams emphasizing
leadership and effective Lodg e
man agem ent as bein g essential to the futur
e of every Mas onic Lodg e; and

Respectfully submitted
Harr y S. Lieberman, M No. 144
'
Mich
ael Reed, SW No. 144
The Committee on Juris prud ence :

WHEREAS, the Com mitte e on the Conf
eren ce of Youn ger Mem bers
reported in 1990 lhat more youn g people
migh t be interested in com mitti ng
time to acce pt leadership roles in the Lodg
e if greater emphasis was placed
on lead ing the Lodg e and planning its prog
rams; and

The prop onen ts of Resolution N 91 _
election of Lodg e office
rs to the N
o be
seek to chan ge the annual
ovem r 3S3tated
Mee ting.

WHEREAS, in the 1989 Mas onic Renewal
Task Forc e stud y the majo rity
of the Masons of California responded
that their Lodg e attendance woul d
substantially increase if Lodg e leadersh
ip was more effective, prov iding
more interesting and meaningful meetings
; and

The legislation
distributed to th C
.
carry out the intent as
of the prop onen ts.
e onst1tuent Lodg es is adeq uate to
Resolution seeks to ame d
requThis
ired for
adop tion.
n our 1aw

The Committee on Policy and General Purp

and a 5/6 affirmative vote is

WHEREAS, 40% of the Masons surveyed
(above) indicated their interest in Lodg e activities wou ld almost certa
inly increase if their leadership skills
coul d be more effectively developed withi
n the Lodge; and

oses:

coo!~~ ~r:~:~~~ ~~h~~~e!~1!,~~~~~e:, toff~han~e the Calif

Mee ting.

0

LIFIE D

IN LOD GE MAN AGE MEN T

~otes

voi~ .elect1on

and therefore reco mme nd a

Resolution HELD OVER.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLV
California Mas onic
Cod e
amended t
ED
Sect
o read asthat
follo ws: ion 2500 of the

.a·

253

ornia Mas onic
icers in the Nove mbe r Stated

WHE REA S, over two- third s of the nonMas ons surv eyed by the
Mas onic Renewal Task Forc e wish to deve
lop their leadership skills and 51 %
desire to take a lead ersh ip role; and

The reasons cited
the pr
.•
Lodg e in this jurisdictioby
n to cha~gpo~ents are not s~1c. 1ent
to require every
e s annual mee ting to Nove
mber.

WHEREAS, Lodg e management training
has not been a requirement
for Lodg e officers, resulting in an imbalance
between ritual and man agem ent
and leadership in the Lodg es.

r

The California
nic Cod
and proc edur es to Maso
acco mpli sh t~isu~d s:ct1.on .25?0, inclu
des prov ision s
P ion or an 1nd1vidual Lodg
e.

l

\

254

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that Section 2514 of the
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED
follows:
as
California Masonic Code be amended to read
shall be presented to
Before a Master-elect can be installed there
Grand Lecturer the
the Installing Officer the certificate of either the
his Lod~e is
~ssistant Grand Lecturer of the Division in which
Lodge is
his
h
s~uated, or ~h~ Inspector of the District in whic
Mastersuch
ined
situated, certifying that he has personally exam
entirely
res
~ect and that he is qualified to give the work and lectu 1, 1978,
July
or after
m the three degr~es; it he is to be installed on
y in the Candidate's
cienc
profi
of
icate
certif
a
ved
that he has recer
is thoroughly
Lec~u~e in. the Degree of Master Mason, and that he
lations of
Regu
and
n
prof1c1ent 1n those Portions of the Constitutio
e arutin
Lodg
a
of
nt
the Grand Lodge which relate to the governme
Lodge management
5th of Section 1122 of
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that paragraph
:
Code be amended to read

The Committee on Juris prud ence :
to require the Master-elect
The proponents of Resolution No 91-34 seek
fied in Lodg e Management
to obtain a Certificate certifying that he is quali
r's become a part of the Lodge
and the qualification criteria for Lodge office
Manual and Inspectors Manual.
t Lodges is adequate to
The legislation as distributed to the Constituen
carry out the intent of the proponents.
a 5/6 affirmative
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and
required for adoption.

vote is

oses:
The Committee on Policy and General Purp
and 91-35 .
This report applies to both Resolution 91-34
the

to the officers of the
To issue certificates, where required by law,
work and lectures
Lodges when they are qualified to give the
ers-elect and Warrequired of them respectively, and as to Mast
when he is satisfied
,
dens-elect to be installed on or after July 1, 1978
in the Candidate's
y
that they have received a certificate of proficienc
ughly profiL~ctu~e of the Deg.ree of Master Mason, and are thoro s of the
lation
Regu
cient m those portions of the Constitution and
nt of the Lodge anQJn
Grand Lodge which relate to the governme
nt
Lodg e manageme
fication criteria for Lodge of. BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that quali
become a part of the Lodg e
ficers, as approved by the Grand Master. shall
al.
Manu
Manual and Inspector's
Respectfully submitted,
E. Arthur Haglund, PM No. 480
Stanley L. Channon, PM No. 259
Jack R. Levitt, PM No. 35
Leo B. Mark, PM No. 10
Raymond A. Young, PM No. 499

255

Larry R. Ard, PM No. 41
Don H. Freitas, PM No. 480
Ralph H. Head , PM No. 352
Harold A. Macy, PM No. 769
Rodney 0 . Wineberg , PM No. 436

ve Lodge management.
There is little doub t that there is a need to impro
Lodge leadership has
for
ration
There has long been a concern that prepa
no training has been
or
little
and
ritual,
been almost exclusively in the area of
planning that will
ram
prog
ing,
meet
done insofar as proper cond uct of
n of comm itrvisio
supe
and
nt
intme
contribute to members' interest, appo
al relationships, and the
tees, budgetary and fiscal matters. interperson
of a Lodge of Master
rship
leade
the
whol e host of problems related to
Masons.
rship, when we have a
Yet, when there has been a breakdown of leade
that it has resulted from the
disfunctional Master, it has been extremely rare
ys resulted from a fa~ure to
lack of ritual preparation. It has almost alwa
.
provide the Lodge with adequate leadership
iency, it is time that we
Without diminishing our concern for ritual profic
e of Lodge ~nage.ment. Will
give some official recognition to the importanc
great and st1mulat1ng Lodge
this insure that every Master is going to have
than our ritual requirer:'ents
programs? No, of course it won't, anym ore
in a manner that is meaningful
mean that thelectures are always delivered
to the candidate.
e that ritual skills alone
However, it will cause a potential officer to realiz
.
rship
leade
e
Lodg
are not sufficient to provide adequate
of necessity, be rather
It is obvious that the initial requirements will,
now and installation for this
modest, because there is too Iittle time between
ver, it is important tha~ the
requirement to be fully implemented. Howe
rsed by this Grand Lodge.
endo
be
principle expressed in 91-34 and 91-35

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Policy and General Purposes Comminee feels that this is a step in the
right direction. We recommend a "Yes" vote.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 2516 of the
California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:

Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

REQUIRES JUNIOR AND SENIOR WARDENS-ELECT TO BE
QUALIFIED IN LODGE MANAGEMENT.

(91-35)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to require the Junior and Senior
Wardens-elect to obtain a Certificate certifying that they are qualified in
Lodge Management and that qualification criteria for Lodge officer's become a part of the Lodge Manual and Inspectors Manual.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHEREAS, Grand Lodge has for years been offering workshops,
retreats and other programs emphasizing leadership and effective Lodge
management as being essential to the future of every Masonic Lodge; and
WHEREAS, the Committee on the Conference of Younger Members
r~ported in 1990 that m?re you~g people might be interested in commining
time to ~ccept leadership roles in the Looge if greater emphasis was placed
on leading the Lodge and planning its programs; and
WHEREAS, in the 1989 Masonic Renewal Task Force study the majority
of the Masons of California responded that their Lodge anendance would
subst~ntially _increase if Lodge leadership was more effective, providing
more interesting and meaningful meetings; and
. WHEREAS, 40% of the Masons surveyed (above) indicated their interest in Lodge activities would almost certainly increase if their leadership skills
could be more effectively developed within the Lodge ; and

W~EREAS, over two-thirds of the non-Masons surveyed by the
Ma~onic Renewal Task Force wish to develop their leadership skills and 51 %
desire to take a leadership role; and
AS, Lodge _ma~agement training has not been a requirement
WHERE_
for Lodge officers, resultmg in an imbalance between ritual and management
and leadership in the Lodges.

257

Before a Senior Warden-elect can be installed there shall be
presented to the Installing Officer the certificate of either the Grand
Lecturer, the Assistant Grand Lecturer of the Division in which his
Lodge is situated, or the Inspector of the District in which his Lodge
is situated, certifying that he has personally examined such Senior
Warden-elect and that he is qualified to give the work and lectures
of the First and Second Degrees; if he is to be installed on or after
July 1, 1978, that he has received a certificate of proficiency in the
Candidate's Lecture in the Degree of Master Mason, and that he is
thoroughly proficient in those portions of the Constitution and
Regulations of the Grand Lodge which relate to the government of
a Lodge and in Lodge management,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 2518 of said Code be
amended to read:
Before a Junior Warden-elect can be installed there shall be
presented to the Installing Officer the certificate of either the Grand
Lecturer, the Assistant Grand Lecturer of the Division in which his
Lodge is situated, or the Inspector of the District in which his Lodge
is situated . certifying that he has personally examined such Junior
Warden-elect and that he is qualified to give the work and lecture
of the First Degree; if he is to be installed on or after July 1, 1978,
that he has received a certificate of proficiency in the Candidate's
Lecture in the Degree of Master Mason, and that he is thoroughly
proficient in those portions of the Constitution and Regulations of
the Grand Lodge which relate to the government of a Lodge am1..in
Lodge management.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that paragraph 5th of Section 1122 of the
Code be amended to read:
To issue certificates. where required by law, to the officers of the
Lodges when they are qualified to give the work and lectures
required of them respectively, and as to Masters-elect and Wardens-elect to be installed on or after July 1, 1978, when he is satisfied
that they have received a certificate of proficiency in the Candidate's
Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason, and are thoroughly proficient in those portions of the Constitution and Regulations of the
Grand Lodge which relate to the government of the Lodge aruiln
Lodge management.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that qualification criteria for Lodge officers, as approved by the Grand Master, shall become a part of the Lodge
Manual and Inspector's Manual.

programs? No, of course it won't, anymore than our ritual !equirer:ients
mean that thelectures are always delivered in a manner that is meaningful

Respectfully submitted ,

However it will cause a potential officer to realize that ritual skills alone
are not sufficlent to provide adequate Lodge leadership.

258

E. Arthur Haglund, PM No. 480
Stanley L. Channon, PM No. 259
Jack R. Levitt, PM No. 35
Leo B. Mark, PM No. 10
Raymond A. Young, PM No. 499

259

to the candidate.

Larry R. Ard, PM No. 41
Don H. Freitas, PM No. 480
Ralph H. Head , PM No. 352
Harold A. Macy, PM No. 769
Rodney 0. Wineberg, PM No. 436

It is obvious that the initial requirements will, of necessity•. be rath~r
modest, because there is too little time between now a~d .installation for this
requirement to be fully implemented. However, it 1s important that the
principle expressed in 91-34 and 91 -35 be endorsed by t~is. Grand L~ge.
Your Policy and General Purposes Committee fell that this 1s a step m the
right direction. We recommend a "Yes" vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The proponents of Resolution No 91-35 seek to require the Junior and
Senior Wardens-elect to obtain a Certificate certifying that they are qualified
in Lodge Management and that qualification criteria for Lodge officers
become a part of the Lodge Manual and Inspectors Manual.

Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

The legislation as distributed to the Constituent Lodges is adequate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.

ALLOWS A NON-RESIDEN T WHO LIVES WITHIN 25 MILES

This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
required for adoption.

DEGREES IN THAT LODGE

OF A CALIFORNIA LODGE TO APPLY FOR THE

(91-36)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

The proponent of this Resolution seeks to per.m~t .a no~-~esiden~ of
California to seek membership in a California Lodge if living within 25 miles

This report applies to both Resolution 91-34 and 91-35.

of that Lodge.
There is little doubt that there is a need to improve Lodge management.
There has long been a concern that preparation for Lodge leadership has
been almost exclusively in the area of ritual, and little or no training has been
done insofar as proper conduct of meeting, program planning that will
contribute to members' interest, appointment and supervision of committees, budgetary and fiscal matters, interpersonal relationships, and the
whole host of problems related to the leadership of a Lodge of Master
Masons.
Yet, when there has been a breakdown of leadership, when we have a
disfunctional Master, it has been extremely rare that it has resulted from the
lack of ritual preparation. It has almost always resulted from a faWure to
provide the Lodge with adequate leadership.
Without diminishing our concern for ritual proficiency, it is time that we
give some official recognition to the importance of Lodge management. Will
this insure that every Master is going to have great and stimulating Lodge

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHEREAS, Needles Lodge is located on the California border w ith
Arizona; and
WHEREAS, within a 25 mile radius of Needles in Arizona there is a
population as large as Needles: and

i'

WHEREAS, nine of the twelve officers of Needles Lodge and many of
the active members live within that 25 mile radius; and

I

WHEREAS, Needles Lodge, over the last 25 years has.received applica tions from Candidates to receive the Degrees of Masonry tn Needles Lodge
after obtaining Waiver of Jurisdiction from Arizona through both Grand
Lodges; and

260

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

WHEREAS, there is no procedure in the California Masonic Code
specifying the proper process for obtaining the required Waiver of Jurisdiction to receive an application for the Degrees of Masonry from another Grand
Jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, the California Masonic Code does allow a California Lodge
to grant a Waiver of Jurisdiction to residents of California who wish to apply
to a Lodge in another Grand Jurisdiction (see Section 2622 No. 2).
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the California Masonic
Code be amended by adding Section 2619 to read as follows:
§2619 Any Lodge of this Jurisdiction may recejye and act upon an
application for any unconferred degree or degrees of Masonry from
an applicant otherwise gualified. who lives outside of California but
within a 25 mile radius from the California Lodge to which he desires
to apply. provided :
a. the applicant has obtained a release or Waiver of Jurisdiction
from the Jurisciictjon wherein he resides directed to the Lodge to
whjch he js applyjng : and
b. the applicant has been a resident in the other Jurisdiction during
the twelve months next preceding the date of his application.
Respectfully submitted,
John B. Bennet, PM No. 326

261

only two Lodges are in an area where a sizable community resides on the
border in an adjoining State.
Any ordinance passed in this jurisdiction has no effect upon any other
jurisdiction, since each has exclusive territorial control . If this Resolution
were to pass, any non-resident of California would still be required to seek
a wavier of jurisdiction from his own State prior to submitting an application
for degrees to a Lodge in this State. Acceptance of foreign applications are
presently permissible with the Grand Master's approval.
This Committee has consistently been opposed to issues which establish single interest legislation, which this Resolution addresses. For this
reason we recommend a "No" vote.
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

MINIMIZES INVESTIGATING - AFFILIATES
(91-37)

The proponents of this Resolution seek to modify the requirements for
a formal investigation of applicants for affiliation.

.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHEREAS, any Master Mason in good standing is entitled to hold
Masonic communication within the Lodges of this Jurisdiction as often as
they want and without any investigation except as a first time visitor; and

The Committee on Jurispruden ce:
The proponent of Resolution No 91-36 seeks to permit a non-resident
of California to seek membership in a California Lodge if living within 25 miles
of that Lodge.
The legislation as distributed to the Constituent Lodges is adequate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
required for adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Among the 512 Lodges in this jurisdiciton, there are only six Lodges
which lie within a 25 mile proximity of the California border, and of those,

WHEREAS, the status of the applicant can be established through his
home Lodge and by meeting with one or more members of the Lodge which
he desires to affiliate with; and
WHEREAS, a precedent is established In Section 2820(A) whereby a
formal Committee of investigators is not a must. An applicant for reinstatement after being suspended for non-payment of dues after two years can
be restored to membership by the Master and the Lodge using any means
of investigation to ascertain whether the applicant is worthy.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the first paragraph of
Section 2638 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Unless dispensation has been granted by the Grand Master to
receive them without reference to a Committee, all applications for
the degrees, and for affiliation shall be referred to a committee of
three, whose duty it shall be to make strict examination into the
moral, mental, physical and other proper qualifications of the applicant, and to report thereon to the Master at the next Stated
Meeting, unless further time be granted. In the case of an application for affiliation . the committee need not personally visit with the
applicant or pose the normal personalized guestjons unless such
visitation and oersonal questions are specifically ordered by the
Master or the Lodge.

telephone or mail, and to consist of questions concerning whatever subjects
the committee feels are appropriate.

Respectfully submitted .
John A. Scheich, SW No. 378

Jesse W. White. PM No. 378

263

The proponents offer no reason why such a distinction is either necessary or desirable, and we see none ourselves. As we noted last year
regarding a similar proposal (89-26), investigations serve important functions, such as examining an applicant's physical and financial health, to
determine whether he is likely to become a charge on the Lodge, or whether
he is joining for imminent admission into the Masonic Home. Such an
inquiry is appropriate even when the applicant Is already a Mason. and
therefore has already been investigated, because his initial investigation may
have been many years before in a different community or even a different
country. A second investigation confirms that the brother is st~I physically
and financially fit, and that his personal conduct has continued to be above
reproach.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:

The proponents of Resolution No 91-37 seek to modify the requirements
for a formal investigation of applicants for afUiation.
The legislation as distributed to the Constituent Lodges is adequate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
required for adoption.

Because of the importance of these investigations, we believe that the
Fraternity and the investigating lodge are best served by an investigation
which is conducted in person, and which inquires into each of the subjects
covered by the investigation form. In the absence of any hardship or other
compelling need to adopt an abbreviated investigation procedure, we see
no reason to do so. Accordingly, your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes recommends a "No" vote on Resolution 91-37.
Resolution'NOT ADOPTED.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:

Currently, section 2638 of our law requires that all men who apply for
membership in a Lodge, whether by initiation or affiliation. be investigated
by a committee on three members of that Lodge. That section does not
expressly describe the means by which the investigation shall be conducted .
The provisions of that section regarding courtesy investigations. however
suggest that the committee members must meet with the applicant in
person . Whatever the method by which the investigation is required to be
conducted, the law makes no distinction between the manner of investigating candidates for degrees as opposed to existing Masons who are applying
for affiliation.
The proponents of this Resolution seek to create suc h a distinction, by
specifying that, unless the Master directs otherwise, the committee investigating a potential affiliate need not meet with the applicant in person, and
need. not pose the normal questions asked of an applicant. Apparently, the
proponents seek to allow investigations to be conducted entirely by

REQUIRES CAUSE TO BE STATED FOR OBJECTION AFTER
ELECTION BUT BEFORE INITIATION
(91-38)

The proponents of this Resolution seek to require a cause to be stated
to support an objection made after election but before initiation.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:

WHEREAS, California Masonic Code Section 2660 states that no
reason need be given for the objection before initiation and it may be
renewed after withdrawal ; and
WHEREAS, our present law allows an objection to be rendered, at this
juncture, without establishing if it be vindictive In nature or of proper concern
for the welfare of the Fraternity; and

264

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.WHER~A~, a~ unknow n numbe r of worthy candid ates
may have been
denied adm1ss1on into our Fraternity due to the objecto r having
a person al
vendet ta agains t the applica nt.

. NO~, THERE FORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 2660
of the
California Mason ic Code be amend ed to read:
If objecti on to an applica nt for the degrees is made after electio

n
cause for the
o~ect1on must be stated If no cause js assjgn ed the
Master may
d1sr~gard the objectj~n and procee d with the conferr
al of lfl&
appllea~t s~ll Aet reee1¥e the degree or the remain der
thereof. tffit#
s1:1et:l ot:i1~et10A st:lall t:lave eeeAwitl=leFawA; aAcl s1:1et:l ol:ljeetioA
st:lall
l:IAless w1tl=lerawA witt:liA siKty clays, "'8.,.e tt:le eHeet of a rejeetio
A t:i~
l:lallot aAcl st:lall ee so re~rtecl to tt:le GraA8 Seeretary. Wt:leAe
ver
aA'I s1:1et:l ol:ljeetioA 0e fflftcle. tt:le MasteF st:lall re~ the feet to
tt:le
L~ge at th~ ~iFst opport1:1Aity at a states FAeetiAg aA8
tt:le siKty clay
pen~ spee1flecl hereiA st:lall eomFAeAee to Fl:IA at
the Elate of s1:1el=I
FAeellAg. If a ca~se .is assigned. it shall be proces sed jn the same
manne r as an 0~1e~t10~ after initiation as proyjde d elsewhere jn
thjs
~ If the oe1eet10A is FAacle at a states FAeetiAg,
tt:le MasteF shall
re~rt the feet to tt:le loclge at the FAeetiAg aAcl tl=le
sil>lf·; clay periocl
st:lall eoFARt.eAee to r1:1A freFA tt:le Elate of s1:1ei't FAeetiAg. ~fo FeasoA
A~ecl l:le gl'w'eA for tt:le eBjeetioA aAcl it fflfty ee
reAewecl after
witAererNel.
a~ ~fore the initiatio n has been comple ted, the

. BE IT FURTH ER RESOL VED that the first senten ce of Section
2666 of
said Code be amend ed to read :
Upon the r~ce~tion ?f the reports of the Comm ittee appoin ted
to
resolv~ ob1ect1ons, if the cause assigned be, in
the opinion of
two-thi rds o~ the membe rs present, not a valid and Mason ic
one
(th.e vote being taken by secret ballot upon slips of paper having
written th~reon "Yes" or "No"), the Lodge may confer the degree...
..Q.[
the remainder th~r~of in the same manner as if no objecti on
had
be~n made; and. if 1t shall decide that the cause assigne
d is not a
~alid and Mason ic one, the Master shall not allow
the same objection to be made a second time.
Respectfully submitted,
Harold E. Bell, PM No. 822

J~mes L. Clements, PM No. 822

William A· K eeI'mg, J r.. p M No. 682

Robert P. Higgin s, PM No 682
Harry G. Torbet t PM No. 682
· ·
W1ll1am
A. Turner,' PM No.. 827

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

265

The Committee on Jurispr udence :
The propon ents of Resolution No 91-38 seek to require a cause
to be
stated to suppor t an objecti on made after electio n but before
initiation .
The legislation as distributed to the Constit uent Lodges is adequa
te to
carry out the intent of the proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a 5/6 affirmative
vote is
required for adoptio n.
The Comm ittee on Policy and Genera l Purpos es:
This Resolution propos es to require an objecto r to an applica
tion for
degree s to state his reasons for the objecti on if It is made after
the applica nt
has been elected , but prior to the comple tion of the initiation.
If the objecti on is made prior to election, no reason for the objecti
on
must be stated. Since not all membe rs of the Lodge are,
or can be, in
attenda nce when applica tions are presented for ballot, we believe
that it is
inequitable to require membe rs absent at the time of election
to follow a
method for objecti on not required of those membe rs who were
present. Our
law clearly states a proper methof of objecti on after initiatio
n has taken
place.
Your Comm ittee recomm ends a "No" vote .
Resolution NOT ADOPTED.

PLACE MENT OF CANDI DATES FOR LECTU RES AND CHARG

ES

(91-39)
The propon ent of this Resolution seeks to delineate the placem
ent of
candid ates for all lecture s and charges.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHER EAS, the placem ent of the candidate, in the West. by the
Ritual
Comm ittee in 1987-1991 to receive the lectures and charges has
not caused
Brethren with weak voices to project their voices, or improv e their
delivery,
even with the help of electro nic equipm ent, available in some Lodge
rooms.
but rather. It has caused candidates to be set away from the Master
. being

266

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

obstructed by the Three Great Lights, the Altar, and the Three Lesser Lights;
and
WHEREAS, the placement of the candidate West of the Altar has
appeared to have a negative effect. Some Brethren have problems speaking
our Native "American English," and the candidates have a problem understanding and comprehending certain words, their meaning, and in general
the beauty and teachings in both the lectures and the charges; and
WHEREAS, the placement of the candidate in the West by the Ritual
Committee has appeared to have had an overwhelming negative reception,
rather than a positive reaction by officers of most Lodges; and
WHEREAS, there are few Lodges that are so crowded with sideliners,
as to make it impossible to seat all present East of the Altar on the North
and South sides of the Lodge during the second section of all degrees, for
the purpose of listening to and enjoying the lessons taught in both the
lectures and the charges; and

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The proponent of Resolution No 91-39 seeks to delineate the placement
of candidates for all lectures and charges.
The legislation as distributed to the Constituent Lodges is adequate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and our Ritual and a 5/6
affirmative vote is required for adoption.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponent of this Resolution seek~ ~o plac~ .the candidate'. wh~n
receiving the lectures and charges in a position familiar to most California
Masons between the altar and the East.
While the Policy and General Purposes Committee is in ~ypathy a~
accord with the proponent, it is our sincere belief that sue~ m1~ute deta1~s
of ritual should not be delineated and specified in the California Masonic

WHEREAS, the lecture and certainly the charge in all degrees is given
for the candidate, and should remain a personal communication between
the Brother giving it and the Brother receiving it; and

Code.

WHEREAS, it is the intent of this Resolution to place the candidate by
order of the California Masonic Code in a place within a Lodge, so that any
future changes will have to be made to the California Masonic Code in order
to place the candidate elsewhere, other than so directed by the authority of
the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California.

The Committee on Ritual:

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the last sentence of
Section 2668 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read:
Such examination shall be held in front of the East between the Altar
and the Master's station,
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that said Code be amended by adding
Section 2689.5 thereto to read as follows:
§2689 5 All lectures by the Master and all charges shall be
delivered wtth the candidate placed between the Altar and the
Master's statjon.

Respectfully submitted,
Seymour William Gershon, PM No. 791

267

We therefore recommend a "No" vote.

The mo~t important reason for the present location of Candidates West
of the Altar is that the Master should at all times have a clear unobstructed
view of the three Great Lights in Masonry as they rest upon the Altar.
In short there is no more significant location in the Lodge than the center
of the Lodge --- where then is a more proper place for the Candidate to
receive the Master's Lecture and the Charge? My Brethren you must not
permit anything in front of the Altar ------We ask you for your "No" vote.
Resolution HELD OVER.

268

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PROVIDES FOR PRESENTATION OF DEGREES
IN SPANISH LANGUAGE

{91-40)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to permit Maya Lodge No. 793
to confer the degree work in the Spanish language and to provide statutory
authority for such work.

269

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that th~ first paragraph of and
the Note to Section 2688 of the California Masonic Code be amended,
respectively, to read as follows:
§2688. Each degree conferred and all lectures in this jurisdiction

must be in conformity with the ritual now or hereafter taught by the
Grand Lecturer and recognized by the Grand Lodge, and such must
be adhered to by all Lodges and Masons in this jurisdiction, except

that.;.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHEREAS, Maya Lod,ge No. 793 received its dispensation on March
27, 1959, with most of its Charter Members having Spanish as their primary
language; and
WHEREAS, then Grand Master Phil N. Meyers, in his Grand Lodge
message, stated that he awarded a dispensation to Maya Lodge with the
expectation that its membership, being almost wholly made up of Brethren
of Mexican ancestry, its inauguration should do much to discourage
clandestine membership in the Los Angeles area; and
WHEREAS, there exists large numbers of men that yearn to become
regular Masons but turn to clandestine Lodges only because of their limited
knowledge of the English language; and
WHEREAS, numerous clandestine Lodges are now working in the
greater Los Angeles are providing the only Masonic opportunity to those
men whose language skills in English are limited; and
WHEREAS, a bi-lingual Lodge would provide an opportunity for
Spanish speaking men to become active members of the Masonic Fraternity; and
WHEREAS, Maya Lodge is in a position to render necessary ritualistic
degree work in Spanish by Brethren proficient in both English and Spanish;
and
WHEREAS, demographic experts are telling us that, by the year 2000,
approximately 50% of the population in California will be Spanish speaking;
and
WHEREAS, a bi-lingual Lodge would afford our Grand Lodge of California the opportunity to build its membership by tapping this growing part of
our population.

A. Lodges composed predominately ~f Bret~ren of a particular
ethnic origin whose mimarv languag7 skills are ·~ a language ~ther
than English, may perform the ritual ID such foreign language. and

a. 4fte Lodges in this jurisdiction whose long-establis~~ r.it~l~tic
work is in part a departure from the uniform ritual of this 1unsd1ct1on
may continue to perform the ritual , insofar as the same may n?t be
disapproved by the Grand Master and the Grand ~ecturer, provided ,
however, that a Lodge in this jurisdiction, conferring a d~gr.ee .u~on
an applicant elected to receive such degree in another 1unsd1ct10.n
may, for such purpose, with the consent ?ft.he .G~and Master o~ this
jurisdiction. use the ritual of such other 1unsd1ct1on, and pr?vided
further that Brethren from another jurisdiction may be ~er~,~~ to
use the ritual thereof upon a candidate from such other 1unsd1ct1on.

.

Note: Parfaite Union No. 17, Valle de France N?. 329, and Hermann
Lodge No. 127 are o~e e~ee~tee Lodges which have long-established ritualistic work Maya Lodge No. 793 is a Lodge that may
perform the ritual in a foreign language.
Respectfully submitted,
Arthur Hernandez. PM No. 793
Alejandro Navarro. PM No. 793
Aurelio Gallegos. PM No. 793
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The proponents of Resolution No 91-40 seek to permit Maya Lodge ~o
793 to confer the degree work in the Spanish language and to provide
statutory authority for such work.
The legislation as distributed to the Constituent Lodges is adequate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.

271

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
required for adoption.

Lodge has all the approval it needs when this Resolution passes. However,
we are confident that the proponents will interpret the new language of
Section 2688 in a realistic manner, and will not present any degrees in
Spanish until the translation has been approved by the Ritual Committee.

270

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Membership in our Lodges is open to all men who believe in a Supreme
Being and a future existence, are of good moral c onduct, and have no
physical or mental impairment which would prevent them from learning and
practicing the principles of Freemasonry. Men who speak languages other
than English often satisfy these requirements. Indeed , the spread of Masonry around the globe has demonstrated that its principles may be taught and
learned in many languages other than English.
. N.evertheless, ~ur law currently requires that, unless a Lodge has
historically used a different language in its degrees, the uniform ritual of this
Grand Lodge must be presented in English. Unfortunately, the exclusive
reliance upon English for the conferral degrees has the practical effect of
excluding from our Lodges candidates who are good men and true but
'
whose primary language is not English.
We believe that this exclusion will be an increasing problem for our
fraternity. Some six million Californians are Spanish speakers, among
whom there are undoubtedly many tens of thousands potential members.
The prohibition against the conferral of degrees in languages other than
~nglish discourages them to seek fraternal membership in our Lodges. and
instead encourages them to seek fraternal membership in clandestine
Lodges operating in Spanish.
Allowing a Lodge, such as Maya Lodge, to confer its degrees in Spanish
would have the advantages of (1) extending the benefits of Masonic member~hip to men who might otherwise remain as strangers to our fraternity,
(2) increasing t~e size and vitality of our Lodges by reaching out to a large
of i:x>tential members, and (3) strengthening our Grand Lodge by
d1souraging membership in clandestine Lodges.

P?°

In today's c osmopolitan society, if Masonry is to embrace all qualified
~en in our. jur.isdiction, then it must embrace more than one language.
~mce Spanish 1s overwhelmingly the largest minority language In the state.
rt makes sense that our first experimental steps into the presentation of our
ritual in those other languages should be taken in Spanish.
We are somewhat concerned that the Resolution does not expressly
state that the Grand Lecturer must approve the translation of the ritual before
it may be used; the last paragraph of the Resolution could imply that Maya

Your Policy and General Purposes Committee recommends a "Yes"
vote on Resolution 91-40.
Resolution HELD OVER .

PERMITS USE OF CIPHER RITUAL AT TILED MEETING
CALLED FOR PRACTICE OF RITUAL

(91-41)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to allow the use of a c ipher ritual
at a tiled meeting called for the purpose of practicing the ritual except for
those participating in the ritual.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHEREAS, the possession of a cipher ritual book is no longer illegal in
this Jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California has published its authorized
version of the rit.ual through the approved cipher ritual book; and
WHEREAS, it is extremely important for the members of this Jurisdiction
to find ways to exemplify the ritual in a more uniform way with inspiration;
and
WHEREAS , Resolution 90-28 did not go far enough in outlining w ho is
permitted and who is excluded from using the cipher ritual book at certain
practice meetings; and
WHEREAS, if officers are expected to perform better at a faster rate,
thereby enhancing the Candidate's understanding of our ceremonies, ritual
cipher books must be permitted at all practice sessions.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the last sentence of
Section 2689 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In no event, however. shall any cipher ritual, or portion thereof, be
used during a tiled meeting except where such meeting is called for
the purpose of practicing the ritual Such use. however shall be
permitted only by members who are not partjcjoatjng jn the presentation of the ritual.
Respectfully submitted,
Michael Shawn Donohugh, PM No. 372

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The proponent of Resolution No 91-41 seeks to allow the use of a cipher
ritual at a tiled meeting called for the purpose of particing the ritual except
for those participating in the ritual.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

273

The Committee on Ritual:
Experience has demonstrated to the Committee on Ritual that the
presence of cipher rituals at practices is not disruptive to the conduct of
those meetings. On the contrary, their controlled use enhances the education process. Therefore, we were ready to support this legislation last year
until we noticed that it contained nothing which would prevent an officer who
is exemplifying our ritual at a school from simply reading it from the cipher
book.
We asked the proponent to resubmit again this year, but with that flaw
corrected . He has done so and we now unreservedly encourage your "Yes"
· vote.
Resolution HELD OVER.

The legislation as distributed to the Constituent Lodges is adequate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and a 5/6 affirmative vote is
required for adoption.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
In 1988, cipher rituals were approved for possession and use in California. The proponent of this Resolution seeks to clarify the language added
to CMC 2688 by defining permissible conditions for their use.
The last sentence of CMC 2688 states that "In no event, however, shall
any cipher ritual be used during a tiled meeting."
Carry-over Resolution 90-28 also addressed the question of the use of
cipher rituals at practice sessions. The distiction between tiled meetings
and practice sessions was discussed in our report on that Resolution.
In Resolution 91-41 , the proponent wishes to add additional restrictions
that would permit the use of the cipher to those not participating in the
presentation of the ritual.
It is the Committee's opinion that the policy has been adequately
established in CMC 2688 and that additional exceptions and conditions are
necessary.
We recommend a "No" vote.

ALLOWS SUBSTANTIAL COMPLIANCE WITH
DIVESTITURE OF METALS
(91-42)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to provide that a wedding ring
which a candidate refuses to remove may be taped and considered as
substantial compliance with the requirement that a candidate be divested
of all minerals and metals.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
WHEREAS, it is, in these times, well established that the rituals of
initiation and advancement, as well as the teachings of the Fraternity, are
performed as symbolic (or "speculative") actions; and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California has approved the initiation
of candidates who may require substantial use of mineral and metallic
prostheses or supports; and
WHEREAS, Masonry should be embracing men who are sincerely
devoted to the institution of marriage and family; and
WHEREAS, the declaration of a candidate to refuse to remove his
wedding ring for the purposes of initiation is a strong statement of his
personal devotion to his wedding vows and his family.

274

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

275

The Committee on Ritual:

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the California Masonic
Code be amended by adding Section 2688.2 to read:

California Masonic Code Section 2688. annotation a, states, in part,
"Where a candidate refuses to be divested of all minerals and metals,
insisting on retaining a wedding ring on his finger because of his marriage
vows, he should be rejected ... "

§2688.2. Where a candk::Jate refuses to be divested of all minerals
and metals. jnsjstjng on retaining a wedding rjng because of hjs
marriage vows. or tt minerals and metals cannot be removed.
substantial compliance may be permjlled by tapjng and disregarding the ring.

Your Committee on Ritual sees little effective difference between a
wedding ring which can't be removed for physical reasons and one which
can't be removed for sentimental or emotional reasons. Indeed, we admire
ties of affection which are so strong.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Annotation 2688a be deleted.
Respectfully submitted,

This annotation was added In 1955. Perhaps in those days, Lodges had
so many candidates that they could feel justified in rejecting one on such
insensitive grounds. We suggest that those days are gone. and we doubt
that many Lodges, if any, strictly observe this law.

John S. Sutton. M No. 676

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The proponent of Resolution No 91-42 seeks to provide that a wedding
ring which a candidate refuses to remove may be taped and considered as
substantial compliance with the requirement that a candidate be divested
of all minernls and metals.

Therefore, we support legislation to remove this well-intentioned, but
obviously outdated. annotaion and recommend a "Yes" vote.
Resolution ADOPTED.

The legislation as distributed to the Constituent Lodges is adequate to
carry out the intent of the proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend our law and our Ritual and a 5/6
affirmative vote is required for adoption.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
We are all aware that the purpose of divesting a candidate of all minerals
and metals is to teach him important Masonic lesson . If however, he is
unable to remove a ring due to enlargement of the finger thereby prohibiting
removal, or if he wears a prothesis containing metal, then exceptions are
permissible according to present law.

\

Following a ~eport by Deputy Grand Master Stanley M. Cazneaux who
explained the budgeting process and the cut backes that have been effected
the Grand Master called for the report of the Finance Committee.

FINANCE COMMITIEE REPORT

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
Your Committee on Finance has review the audited Financial Statements presented by the Grand Treasurer for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1991 , as required by the California Masonic Code.

This Committee feels that an exception should also be granted to any
applicant who deems his marital vows to be so important to him, that
removal of a wedding band would violate those sacred vows. It is obvious
that a person with such high moral standard is indeed the type of applicant
we seek in our Fraternity.

Necessary supplemental appropriations for those items where budgets
were exceeded. totaled $150,901 and were approvaed by the Grand Master.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "Yes"
vote.

We are pleased that the Grand Master's Travel and Elected Officers
Expenses were all under budget.

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

New Commit tees approve d at the last Commu nication required funding
not allowed for in the last budget and these will occur again this year
for
those Commit tees approve d at this Commu nication . A deta~ed
list of
expense s may be found in the Grand Treasur er's Report and may
be
compar ed against the budget as shown in the 1990 Proceed ings.
Our tradition al Commit tee meeting on the budget was eliminat ed and
only the Finance Chairma n and one membe r, Norman Hawkes. met with
the
Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden ,
Grand
Treasur er and Grand Secreta ry to conside r and review every request
for
money by differen t function s of the Grand Lodge, as recomm ended
by the
Deputy Grand Master. The Deputy Grand Master has previou sly explaine
d
most of the adjustm ents to the Budget and we comme nd his efforts to
curtail
expense s during the coming year.
These costs are being paid for by fewer membe rs each year. Our loss
of assessable membe rship will be about 5,000 this year alone. bringing
it
down to 132,000 .
While your Commit tee continu es to monitor the expense s of Grand
Lodge very closely and conservatively, some costs continu e to go
up for
program s and services demand ed by actions of this Grand Lodge
and
request s of the Lodges and its membe rs. If you have an opinion on
these
matters, please let the Grand Master and the Executi ve Commit tee
know
your feelings.
The Finance Commit tee appreci ates all the help of the Grand Secreta
ry,
Robert A Klinger, and wish him well on his. retirement. We also want
to
acknow ledge his advanc ement in responsibility by his appoint ment
to the
Finance Commit tee next year.
The propose d 1991 -1992 Budget is presented here in summa ry form:
Admini strative and
Grand Lodge Office
include s all the costs
of operatin g the Grand
Lodge includin g salaries
Genera l Expens es
Annual Commu nication
Grand Lodge Officers
expense, Ritual and
Inspect ors expense
and Insuran ce

$653 ,007

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Capital and unfund ed expend itures
Approp riation
All Commit tee Expens e
includin g Annual
Commu nication s attenda nce
Totals

95,183

$16906 50

less Estimat ed Revenu e
Investm ent Income
Degree 'Fees
Net expense s after estimate d
Revenue

$1 ,672,150

Net Budget to be
covered by Per Capita
Assessm ent

1 672.150

Estimated Assessable
Membe rship

132,000

Per Capita
California Freema son
Total

277

15,000

:3.500

12.67

LlO.
$13.77

The operatio n of Grand Lodge from July 1, 1991 until n?w has spent
part of this Budget already and needs ratificat ion for that portion.
Our California Freema son Editor, Very Worshp ipful Ralph H. Head,
publishe s our magazin es very efficiently and request s the same_ $1.1
O per
capita as in recent past years. He continu es to seek econom ies for
the
magazine. yet improvi ng quality. The supplem ental expense approva
l f?r
the California Freema son was an accoun ting error of 1989 expense
put in
the expense s of 1990-1991 incorrec tly.
In order to pay the expense s of this great Grand ~odge and _keep
its
program s and operatio n continuing, we offer the followin g Resolut ion.

765,110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLVED, that a per capita assessment of $13.77 be assessed as of
June 30, 1992 divided as follows:

COMMITIEE REPORTS

278

Office and Administration
General Expense

$4.95
5.71

39.1%
45.1%

Capital and Unfunded
Cumulative Expenditures

.65

5.1%

Committee Appropriations

1.36

10.7%

Total Grand Lodge

12.67

100.0%

California Freemason

1....lll.

Total Per Capita

Woll

Most Worshipful, I move the adoption of this Resolution.
Resolution ADOPTED.

279

The Committees and Boards which did not present an oral report during
the course of the Annual Communication are herewith listed for inclusion in
these Proceedings.
REPORT OF THE COMMERCIALISM COMMITIEE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
The committee has answered questions regarding rentals of property,
and other related fund raising proposals.
We continue to have some problems with unauthorized usage of the
square and compass, and most of these can be resolved without too much
effort.
The committee has been fortunate to assist the Rose Float Committee
in their endeavors, and we have been able to provide guidelines for the sale
and distribution of their material. This project should bring favo rable light
to the Fraternity. and help all of us in the future.
We have not received any of the Financial Reports of the Shrine
supported foot.Pall games as required under C.M.C. 2070-d, and can give
no opinion as to their adherence to our guidelines.
Fraternally,

Grand Lodge was called off at 4:10 p.m. with labor again to be resumed
at 9:00 a.m. Wednesday, October 16, 1991.

Robert C. Coe. Chairman
Neal E. Macurda
John L. Darms, Jr.

John T. Ward
Richard L. Zweig

REPORT OF THE COMMITIEE ON CONFERENCES
OF YOUNGER MEMBERS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:
At the One Hundred Fortieth Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge, Most Worshipful Stanley L. Channon proposed in his Rec ommendation No. 20 that a Grand Lodge Committee on Conferences of Younger
Members be appointed. Most Worshipful Channon proposed that this
committee organize one or more conferences of Masons under forty-five
years of age at which these younger Masons would have an opportunity to

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

discuss ways and means of redirecting the Lodges and th~ir progr~ms. It
was also Grand Master Channon's recommendation that this committee be
composed of Masons under forty-five years of age.

alternate proficiency system where self study regarding the philosophy and
principles of Freemasonry could be emphasized rather than memorization
of answers to questions. Some noted the programs developed by Nebraska
and Illinois in whose alternate proficiency systems the candidate learns the
signs, words and modes of recognition and studies the philosophy of
Freemasonry through personal reading and group meetings, at the conclusion of which an open book examination is completed covering many of
the same areas of our current proficiencies but the greater depth and in the
candidate's own words. It was suggested that Grand Lodge consider the
appointment of a committee to study these alternate systems of candidate
proficiency with a view to adopting any of the advantages noted.

280

Most Worshipful Sam M. Pavlovich appointed us to the committee, and
we were reappointed by Most Worshipful Ronald A. Sherod for the current
year. Six conferences were held: Saturday, April 28, 1990 at the Fres~
Scottish Rite Cathedral, Saturday , May 5, 1990 at the San Jose Masonic
Temple, Saturday, May 19, 1990 at the Los Angeles Scottish Rite Cathedral,
Saturday, February 23, 1991 at the San Diego Scottish Rite, Saturday, March
2 1991 at the Sacramento Scottish Rite and Saturday, March 9, 1991 at the
Masonic Temple on Broadway in Oakland. Those in atten_danc~ we_re
enthusiastic and very interested in the future of Fr_eemas~nry 1n California.
Some traveled great distances to attend. All had ideas with respe_ct to the
future direction of Grand Lodge and our local Lodges. Four topics were
discussed: How can we encourage young men to become Masons? W~t
programs should Lodges otter? How can we interest young people 1n
leadership roles? For what should Masons be noted or ''what do Masons
do?"
This report will summarize the results of the conferences held in the past
two years.

How can We Encourage Young men to Become Masons?
Several concerns were noted in discussions of this_ question. Many
young men have limited amounts of additional time available for fraternal
activities because of work and other family commit~ents. Many yo~ng
wives work. It is difficult to interest many young men 1n fraternal o~ga~1z~­
tions unless families are involved and time devoted t~ the organizat10~ s
activities is used in the most effective manner possible. !he follo~ing
suggestions were made. All Lodge activities other than tiled meetings
should include families. The programs should be d~sig~ to interes~ _not
only Masons but their wives, children and non-Masonic fnends and fam11t~s.
Child care should be provided by the Lodge for younger people attending
Lodge activities with small children. Activities of interest to younger peo~le,
such as sports teams, should be encouraged. We should be more act~e
with the masonic youth groups. Some suggested that fewer lodges with
larger memberships wo uld have the people and funds to sponsor more
interesting programs.
Some but certainly not all participants questioned whether our present
system of candidate's proficiencies is the most effective use of the
candidate's time. Perhaps the same amount of time could be devoted to an

281

It was also suggested that Freemasonry is not sufficiently visible in the
community and that many young people are more interested in joining
groups which are community oriented. This area is discussed in greater
detail later in this report. Some also expressed that belief that the perceived
lack of ethnic and religious diversity in Freemasonry inhibits some young
people from joining. It was suggested that both Lodges and Grand Lodge
should have more qualified minority members in leadership roles.
Many felt that our members are unclear as to the limitations with respect
to our anti-solicitation rules. We should do a better job of educating our own
members about what may be said regarding the fraternity and how the
subject of membership may be approached with non-members without
violating our anti-solicitation rules.
Most importantly, many suggested that, in order to attract young
people, young people must be active and visible in the fraternity. Each
Lodge should organize a nucleus of its younger members to plan programs
to attract their contemporaries to Lodge activities. Many Lodges have
younger members who are no longer active. They should be recruited to
chair some social activities of the lodge which they and their non-Masonic
friends would attend with other members of the Lodge. Most people join a
group because of a present member whom they know. Unless younger
people are active in Lodges, other young people are not as likely to join.
Each Lodge should make an eHort to recruit younger people who are already
members to be more active in order to attract their friends. Encourage these
younger but perhaps presently inactive members to plan a social event in
which they might be interested and invite their friends, whether members or
not, to attend . They and their friends might thereby become more interested
in the fraternity.

282

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

What Programs Should Lodges Offer?
Many complained that Lodges repeat the same programs year after year
without much change or imagination in their presentation. A variety in
programming is important if Lodges are to attract and keep members,
regardless of age. The traditional programs can be popular year after year
if the content is varied and the event is professionally planned and conducted. For example, every Lodge should have an annual public schools
week program. There are a variety of activities which can be emphasized
at a public schools week program. Different ones might be chosen each
year. Those who plan the event should design the program to be of interest
to themselves and others who attend rather than doing the minimum
required. To encourage participation by younger members and keep the
interest of older members, Lodges should plan programs which appeal to
a broad age group. When such events are planned, Lodge officers should
make an extra effort to make each person present feel welcome. A greeters
committee might be useful. The Lodge leadership should spend time with
as many people present as possible and encourage others to do likewise.
Many present felt that Masonic education does not have a sufficiently
prominent role in many Lodges' programming. Masonic education may be
planned not only for tiled meetings but for stated meeting dinners and other
events where families are present. Additional services from Grand Lodge
might be useful. Grand Lodge should consider an investment in recording
equipment to produce video and audio cassette tape masters of presentations on Masonic topics and arrange with outside providers to duplicate
these tapes. The candidate system of education was suggested as a
program which could be improved with companion video and audio cassette tape presentations. Each Lodge should be encouraged to have its
own television set and video cassette recorder. The newer members, their
wives and families could be encouraged to come to the Lodge or a member's
home to view the video presentation and then participate in a discussion
with perhaps more experienced members present. The audio cassette
tapes could be lent for use in the car by candidates and other members
while commuting.
How Can We Interest Young People in Leadership Roles?
Again, the time commitment was the most often voiced concern. It was
suggested that more qualified young people might aspire to leadership roles
in Lodges if the administrative and ritualistic functions of the Master, Wardens and Senior Deacon were separated, with the Master, Wardens and
Senior Deacon of the Lodge serving as administrative officers and separate
officers available to confer the degrees and give the lectures when requested

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

283

to do so. Some suggested that the administration of the Lodges and
presentation of the ritual might improve if specialists were responsible for
each.
Some suggested that more young people would aspire to Lodge
leadership roles if we had better program to educate them in not only what
was expected of them in those roles but how they could plan an effective
program. More leadership training is needed. While many present were
not aware of the Grand Lodge Wardens' Retreats program, many felt that
more programs of that type were needed. Lodge line officers need practical
information on how to plan interesting programs. For all Masonic leaders,
both you and old, Grand Lodge should increase its emphasis on proper
leadership training.
In summary, if the Master, Wardens and Senior Deacon can concentrate
their efforts on leading the Lodge and planning its programs. with the ability
to delegate ritualistic responsibilities to others, and if the Grand Lodge
increases its assistance in training local Lodge leaders in planning programs
that have been successful elsewhere, more young people might be interested in committing the time required to accept leadership roles .
For What Should Masons be Noted or "What Do Masons Do?"
We must do a better job of practicing in the community our Masonic
tenets of brotherly love. relief and truth. We must not simply profess our
Masonic teachings by our words but by our actions among those around
us, whether affiliated with Masonry or not. Lodges must be more visible in
the community. Masons should not be known just for attend ing meetings
among themselves but for what they do in the community. Each Lodge
should be encouraged to identify needs in its own community and work to
address them. Many familiar with the California Masonic Code expressed
a desire to amend Section 2316 to permit Lodge funds to be used for
non-Masonic charities.
Masonry is the world's oldest and largest fraternity becau se of its
unique. philosophical content. Masonry can again attract young people
with its philosophical content if we put its tenets into everyday practice
brotherly regard for every human being with whom we come in contact. relief
or charity for those less fortunate than we. regardless of their affiliation with
the fraternity, and truth, the practice of those timeless teachings by which
we hope to fit ourselves as perfect stones in a better super-structure of
society. If we can practice and demonstrate these tenets outside th e Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

through our Masonic activities in the community, not only will we fulfill better
our responsibUities as Masons but certainly we will attract others, both young
and old, to join with us.

REPORT OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE

284

While some of the items mentioned in this report would require changes
in the California Masonic Code or other actions by the Grand Lodge, many
may be done by local Lodge initiative. Many at the conferences concluded
that these ideas could be implemented in their Lcx:lges without Grand Lcx:lge
Help and that it only took one person, each person present, to return to his
Lcx:lge to start. Many left renewed in their enthusiasm for the fraternity and
his place in its future success.
The committee recommends that the format of these conferences by
changed in the future. instead of inviting o~y members under the age of
forty-five, invite all members, regardless of age, and perhaps their families
also to a town meeting on the craft where issues of concern to those in
attendance may be discussed with appropriate representatives from the
Grand Lodge. Grand Lodge leadership will gather possible programs for
the improvement of the fraternity and will leave with a better appreciation of
the concerns of the craft for the future of the fraternity. The craft will sense
that Grand lodge leadership is concerned about their ideas and leave with
renewed enthusiasm for the future of the fraternity. Perhaps these sessions
can be held when the Grand Master will otherwise be in an area and can be
done without the expense of this committee.
The committee extends its thanks to the Grand Lodge office, the Fresno
Scottish Rite Bodies. San Jose Masonic Temple Association, the Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies, the San Diego Scottish Rite Bodies, the
Sacramento Scottish Rite Bodies and Oakland Masonic Tempie Association
for their assistance in making the 1990 and 1991 programs successful.
Respectfully submitted,

A. Stephen Doan, Chairman
Gregory B. Blednyh
Sean C. Ingram

Michael H. Durham
James W. McDonald

285

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:

The Investment Committee has the responsibility of reporting of annually to Grand Lodge on the condition of the various funds of Grand Lodge and
those of its entities.
During the year quarterly meetings are held by the Committee with is
Investment counselors. At each meeting an independent analytical consulting firm reviews the performance of the various funds as compared with
similar funds, ie., endowment, non-profit and trust funds, in the United
States.
The primary concern of the Committee is the preservation of the
principal of the various funds together with the highest rate of return
commensurate with safety and good investment practice.
Three funds, Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, Masonic Homes
General Fund and the Hugo M. Lorber Union City Fund constitute 95% of
the total investments.
Among other funds supervised by the Committee are the General Fund
of Grand Lodge, the funds of the California Masonic Memorial Temple,
California Masonic Foundation and Amaranth, Pooled Income and several
restricted-use ·funds of Masonic Homes.
As of August 20, 1991 , the Investment Committee accepted the respon sibility for the oversight of the investment of the funds in the Retirement Plan
from the Retirement Committee. Effective October 1, 1991, the funds have
been allocated to two separate managers who are specialists respectively
in fixed Income and equities.
The market value of the total portfolio on June 30, 1991 was
$271 ,385,400 compared to $261, 129,000 a year earlier, an increase of 3.9%.
The 1990-1991 cash yield from the total invested funds was 6. 7%.
Fixed income securities, including government and corporate bonds
composed 63% of the total portfolio. The remainder consisted of common
stocks and cash equivalents.
The Pooled Income Fund is of particular importance to the Masonic
Homes. On June 30, 1991, the Fund had a market value of $4,517,887. The
cash yield was 8.19%. The Pooled income Fund gives Masons and others

286

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in California the opportunity to create a lifetime income for themselves and
for one-time designated beneficiaries. Certain tax advantages may accrue
to the contributor. Eventually, the Masonic Homes becomes the final
beneficiary.

1. We revised the Grand Master's Achievement Award form and the
eligibility point system to bring more equity to the smaller lodges.
This year we reviewed and approved over 170 Grand Master
Achievement Award applications.

The rewarding accumulation of assets in the various funds of Grand
Lodge has been the result of the efforts of Masons and their friends. The
operations of the Masonic Homes at Union City and Covina are financed
almost entirely from through the income from the Endowment and General
Fund investments. The expansion at Union City in the last several years was
funded entirely from the Hugo M. Lorber Fund. Other revenues furnish
support for the charitable activities and educational grants of the Grand
Lodge of California.

2. We have continued to promote the committee's "Lodge Leadership Handbook" for improvement and better access to lodge officers.

The Funds' investments rank among the highest in quality because the
Investment Committee exercises the utmost prudence and care in their
overseeing of the management of the funds. The cash yield and the total
return have been satisfactory in view of the Committee's conservative
investment policy and the securities markets.

287

3. This year we have instituted a new Award, which we have
presented to the Inspectors whose Districts have had 100% participation inthe Grand Master's Achievement Award. This being our
first year with this program we have had only 11 Inspector qualifying.
4. Our committee this year has put into effect a new program. Each
member of the committee has selected 5 Lodges in his division who
have not participated in the Grand Master's Achievement Award
program. Our members then tried to encourage and assist those
lodges to participate. I feel we have met with success as we have
had over 30 first year lodges participate this year.

Respectfully submitted,
Glenn D. Woody, Chairman
Jack F. Bowley, Advisor
John Darms
Tom Holm
James Leggate
George P. Leung

John 0. Morris
Chris Patropulos
Joe Reed
Joe Winchell

One of the best services our committee provides is to meet with various
lodges that are in trouble and need help. As Grand Lodge representatives
we are able to show them Grand Lodge cares. In addition, we are able to
provide information from the Leadership Handbook and other sources to
assist them in meeting their planning requirements and addressing Lodge
problems.
Future Considerations

REPORT OF THE LODGE RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT COMMITIEE

1. We must find a way to let the lodges know that we are available
to assist them with their problems.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:

2. The development of the "Lodge Leadership Handbook."

There are 15 committee members presently serving on the Lodge
Resources Development Committee.
We meet with a full committee three times a year. We hold two meetings
in Northern California and one in Southern California. One Northern meeting
is held during Grand Lodge Week. Our annual budget is $6,500.
Major subjects and actions by the committee for the Masonic year
included:

3. The development and review of the Grand Master's Achievement
Awards.

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER' S ACHIEVEMENT AWARD

FOURTH YEAR RECIPIENTS
Hiram No. 43
Redwood City No. 168
South West No. 283
Santa Monica-Palisades No. 307
Berkeley No. 363
Burlingame No. 400
Moneta No. 405
Alta Mt. Sierra No. 408

FIRST YEAR RECIPIENTS
Occidental California No. 1
San Jose No. 1o
Mariposa No. 24
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30
Plumas No. 60
Chico-Leland Stanford No. 111
Fidelity No. 120
Sincerity No. 132
Oriental No. 144
Petaluma-Hamilton No. 180
San Simeon No. 196
Confidence No. 203
Downey No. 220
Lodi No. 256
Pasadena Consolidated No. 272
Azusa No. 305

Alhambra Progressive No. 322
Hollywood No. 355
Silver Trowel No. 415
Taft Midway No. 426
Van Nuys No. 450
Zenith-Mount Olive No. 506
Orinda-Plymouth No. 521
Smyrna No. 532
Fairfax No. 556
Grizzly No. 601
R.E. Dolley No. 616
Meudell-Oildale No. 695
Estero No. 719
Merced No. 749
Silverado No. 782
Fox-Coates No. 842

East San Diego No. 561
Martinez No. 41
Santa Maria No. 580
LaFayette No. 126
Lynwood No. 600
Santa Barbara No. 192
No. 708
Seafaring
Stanislaus No. 206
No. 760
Lakeside
Bakersfield No. 224
No. 769
Palmdale
San Leandro Brooklyn No. 225
No. 802
Valley
Yucca
Hanford No. 279
No. 804
Valley
Moreno
Ontario No. 301
No. 813
West
Old
Temescal No. 314
No. 830
Daylight
Bicentennial
Claremont No. 436
Tyrian No. 439

Gardena-Ascot No. 372
Glendora No. 404
Westminster Fairview No. 629
San Marino No. 685
Polaris No. 730
John's No. 756
St.
Clayton Valley
Conejo Valley No. 807
Victoria Palms No. 810

SIXTH YEAR RECIPIENTS
Westwood No. 501
Los Angeles No. 42
Grove No. 505
Garden
Naval No. 87
Azure No. 533
Phoenix No. 178
No. 544
Glendale
Marin No. 191
No. 548
Triangle
Evergreen No. 259
No. 564
Foothill
Orange Grove No. 293
569
No.
Canyon
Crow
Long Beach No. 327
626
No.
Vista
Chula
Covina No. 334
632
No.
Heights
Normal
South Bay No. 421
431
No.
Shattuck-Stephens
Alpha

THIRD YEAR RECIPIENTS
Provident No. 609
Nevada No. 13
Pillars No. 613
Three
167
No.
Alameda
No. 657
Spreckels
D.
John
243
No.
Acacia
John P. Jarman No. 669
Redlands No. 300
Modesto No. 675
Bellflower No. 320
Carlos No. 690
San
341
No.
Oxnard
No. 747
Morrison
H.
Claude
376
Francis Drake No.
791
No.
Arnold
H.
Henry
General
428
No.
San Dimas
837
No.
Daylight
Shell
L.
446
No.
Joseph
West Covina-La Puente
839
No.
Stars
Three
486
Caledonia No.
Tri Square No. 551

Coronado No. 441
Sun Garden No. 530
Hemet No. 615
Poinsettia No. 633
Saddleback Laguna No. 672
Dana R. Weller No. 765
Oak Plains No. 789
Sublime No. 831

FIFTH YEAR RECIPIENTS

SECOND YEAR RECIPIENTS
Oakland Durant Rockridge No. 188
Hope No. 234
Magnolia-La Cumbre No. 242
Pomona No. 246
Mount Shasta No. 281
Clarence L. Fraser No. 294
Silver Gate No. 296
Fullerton No. 339

289

I

290

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI

SEVENTH YEA R RECIPIENTS
Tehama No. 3
Salinas No. 204
Anaheim N o. 207
King David's No. 209
Cro cke r No. 212
Whittier No. 323
Con sue lo No. 325
Red ond o No. 328
Pacific Gro ve No. 331
Sequoia -St. Elm o No. 349
Jewel City No. 368
Gra nad a Hills No. 378
Univ ersity No. 394
Upland No. 419

Bla ckm er No. 442
Ube rtas -Se curi ty No. 466
Southeast No. 596
Mag noli a Park No. 618
Poi nt Lom a No. 620
Men ora h No. 623
Riverside No. 635
Men lo Park Peninsula No. 651
Vista No. 687
Lem on Gro ve No. 736
Mission Bay No. 771
East Whittier No. 776
Mou nt Bal dy No. 815
Kern River Valley No. 827
Lan cas ter No. 437

To the Mos t Worshipful Gra nd

Lod ge, F.& A.M. of California:
PRO LOG UE

You r Mas onic Hom es End owm
ent Board is pleased to sub mit
its 60th
Ann ual Report cov erin g the fisca
l year end ing Jun e 30, 1991 . Thr
oug h the
com mitm ent of man y of the Bre
thren of this gre at Fraternity to
the sup por t
of the residents of our two Hornes
, their con trib utio ns thro ugh thei
r Lod ges
to the End owm ent Fund, were
over one and a thir d million doll
ars. Als o, the
amo unt of bequests, gifts and
mem oria ls was the sec ond larg
est ever
received in recent years -- over
two and a half mill ion dollars. It
was indeed
a ver y goo d year!
TOT AL CO NTR IBU TIO NS

Gol den Rule No. 479
Capital City Gol den Empire No.
499
Ioni c No. 520
Arcadia No. 547
Com pos ite No. 639
Greenleaf No. 670
Liberal Arts No. 677
Bixb y Knolls Nep tune No. 699
Hor ne No. 72 1
Luther Bur ban k No. 752
Rio Lind a No. 786

For Yea rs end ing Jun e 30t h
INC OM E FRO M THE PER MA

NEN T END OW ME NT FUN D

~.

170
11!.0

~o ~
..._o

~o ~

Cl.O

11 D

This con clud es our ann ua 1 1990/91 report. It has bee n a pleasure bein
.
g
of service, than k you for the opp
ortu nity .
Respectfully sub mitt ed,
Bob Kulick, Chairman
Vin cen t D. Alianiello
Lar ry C. Basker
Richard J. Bin gle
Jam es 0. Fou rr
Gilb ert W. Haa s
Alan L. Jeffery

T .A. Kanestar
Leo B. Mar k
William C. Mic halk
Raymond D Parkins
Charles P. Stillman
Robert M. Tug well

291

ANN UAL REP OR T OF THE
MA SO NIC HO ME S END OW ME
NT BO ARD

EIG HTH YEA R RECIPIENTS
San Die go No. 35
Reading No. 254
Win ned uma h No. 287
Los Ang eles Har bor No. 332
San Fernan do No. 343
San Ber nar dino No. 348
wes t Los Ang eles No. 373
Hun ting ton Bea ch No. 380
Oce ans ide No. 381
la Mesa No. 407
Yor ba Linda No. 469

A

9:)0

I

as

BB

87

88

Eli

~

91

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Income from the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund amounted to
$6,885,840 which was transferred to the operating accounts of the Masonic
Homes of California. This income is an extremely vital and important factor
in providing the Hornes' Trustees with a portion of the funds necessary to
maintain the exceptionally high quality of health care and services afforded
to the residents. Another use of th is income is to help provide nonresidential
assistance for those who are not able to become a resident. This income
also assists in providing money for present as well as future construction
and enhancement of the facilities at our Hornes.

LODGES WITH LARGEST AVERAGE

292

INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES
FOR HONOR ROLL ACHIEVEMENT
$1 ,365,768.04
$20.64
$9.79
47.42%
66,178
139,565

Total Contributions
Average Contribution per Contributor
Overall Average Gift per Membership
Percentage of Members Contributing
Members Contributing
Total Membership

BEQUESTS, GIFTS AND MEMORIALS
Bequest through Berkeley Lodge No. 363
$54,882.50
Bequest through Columbia Lodge No. 388
$53.655.05
Bequest through Van Nuys Lodge No. 450
$500.00
Other bequests directly to the Endowment Fund $2,484,356.64
Gifts from organizations and individuals
$13,577.97
Memorial contributions not credited to Lodges
$11.636.70
TOTAL
$2,618,608.86
GRAND TOTAL
$3,984,376.90
COMPARISON OF CONTRIBUTIONS
THROUGH LODGES
(California Lodges Only)
Avera9•

A~tage

lodg9's YM r1y

Tol!Ol

Year

Contnbut1oos

l.4embe~ i p

Contnbu11119
Members

1991
1990
1989
1988
1987
1986
1985

$1 ,365,768.04
$1,441, 132.80
$1 ,399,937. 72
$1 ,408,358.42
$1,491,012.29
$1 ,439,615.40
$1,398,480.38

139,565
145,319
151 ,051
156.820
161 ,873
166,872
171,550

66,178
70,804
74 ,329
76.635
81 ,893
83,939
87,376

Contribution
Per Contributor

$20.63
$20.35
$18.83
$18.38
$18.21
$17 .15
$16.01

CONTRIBUTION PER MEMBER
1985 through 1991
Year
1991
1990
1989
1988
1987
1986
1985

Con1nbuting

48.72%
49.21%
48.87%
50.59%
50.30%
50.93%

Average
Lodge Name
Contribution
Hills Ferry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $114.72
Hills Ferry . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114.85
Oriental . . . • . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . 171 .38
Hills Ferry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106.66
Hills Ferry . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 98.06
Carpinteria . . . . • . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . • • . . . 38.92
Carpinteria . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38.69

No.
236
236
144
236
236
444
444

LODGES WITH LARGEST AVERAGE
CONTRIBUTION PER CONTRIBUTOR
Average
Contribution

No.

Lodge Name

236
210
164
241
799
220

Hills Ferry
Friendship
Harmony
Tustin
Clairmont Mesa
Downey
Baldwin Park
Inglewood.James Kew
Cove lo
Carpinteria
Riveria
Golden Gavel
Vallee De France
San Ramon Valley
Artesia
San Pablo
Lexington
Canby Cross
Redwood Empire
Madison
Granada Hills
Bakersfield
S.W. Hackett
Delano
Old West
Atwater Larchmont

660
421
231
444
780
445

329
724
377
754
104
679

683
Perc entage of
Membership

293

23
378
224
574

309
813
614

..

$397. 12
$185.29
$117.75
$112.07
$109.97
. $74.52
. $71 .25
. $67.67
'$65.00
. $63.03
. $62.43
. $59.31
• $58.28
. $53.17
. $52.98
. $51 .04
. $50.18
• $43.89
. $43.72
. $41.67
. $41 .22
. $40.83
• $40.82
. $39.44
. $37.94
• $37.31

Average
Contribution

No.

Lodge Name

327
376
215
476
728

Long Beach
Francis Drake
Oak Grove
Coachella
Lakewood
Washington
Yucaipa
Hesperian
Jubilee
Eden Standard
Alamo
Lamanda Park Carmelita
La Fayette
West Gate
Huntington Beach
Buena Park
Metropolitan
Union
.
West Covina-la Puente
Greenleaf
Alhambra Progressive
Beverly Hills
Whittier
Blackmer
Westchester United
West Los Angeles

20
726
264
604
113
122
627
126
335
380
357
352
58
446
670
322
528
323
442
572
373

.. .

. $37 .22
. $37.03
. $36.11
. $35.36
. $35.19
. $35.10
. $35.00
. $34.69
. $34.08
. $33.81
. $33.35
. $33.18
. $33.14
. $32.72
$32.65
. $32.61
. $32.25
. $32.12
. $32.06
. $31.70
. $31.57
. $31.47
• $30.93
. $30.71
. $30.68
. $30.59

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

LODGES WITH LARGEST DOLLAR CONTRIBUTION

Lodges making the Honor Roll increased to 42.9%. However, the percent
of members contributing declined to 47.4% and the average contribution
per member decreased to $9.79.

294

Amount

No.

Lodge Name

Amount

No.

Lodge Name

35
377
442
348

San Diego . . . . . . . . $16,153.82
Artesia .. . . . . . . . . $14,676.19
Blackmer . .. . . . .. . $12,130 .97
San Bernardino . . . . . $12,034.00
Columbia . . . . . . . . . $11 .233.50
Internationa l City . . . . . $10,938.00
Hills Ferry . . . . . . . . $10,325.00
San Francisco . . . . . . $10,218.00
Clairmont Mesa .. . .. $10,007.4{)
. . . . . . . . . $9,880.75
Norwalk
. . . . .. . . . . $9.180.00
Ionic
Wisdom .. . . . . . . . $9,012.00
Acacia . . . . . . . . . . $8,483.00
Carp interia . . . . . . . . $8,446.00
Sequoia-St Elmo . . . . $8.409.25

380

$8,096.00
Huntington Beach
. . . . . $8,048.50
Downey . . .
$7 ,778.68
. .
Garden Grove
$7 ,710.00
Menorah . . ..
Occidental California .. $7.689.00
$7 ,616.00
Riveria .. . . . .. .
$7,540.92
. .
Redondo . . .
. . . . . . $7,538.08
Consuelo . .
$7,519.00
Pasadena Consolidate d
Southeast .. . . . .. . $7,245.50
Chula Vista . . . . . . . . $7.212.80
$7,185.00
Chateau Thierry . . . .
Reseda . . . .. . . . . . $7, 18500
Yerba Buena . . . . . . . $7, 100.00

388
389

236
139
799
315
520
202
243
444
349

220
505
623

1
780
328
325
272
596
626
569

666
403

REFLECTIONS
The Masonic Homes Endowment Fund fiscal year of 1990-1991 was one
of ups and downs. Considering the state of the economy, the demands
placed on our money available for contribution to other charities, and our
continued decline in membership, we are grateful for what we have
achieved.
The programs that were instituted three years ago to increase the
awareness of the Masonic Homes in the members of our Fraternity are
continuing to show positive results.
The presentation of the book "The Greatest of These is Charity" -- a
history of the Masonic Homes of California -- is being widely accepted as
one of great enlightenment to both the new Entered Apprentice as well as
the seasoned Master Mason. Lodges can receive these books by contacting their Endowment Board member who will be pleased to make the
presentation to the new Entered Apprentice.
The response to the Masonic Homes Endowment lapel Pins and the
Appreciation Certificates is continuing to be strong. The lapel Pin for 1992
is quite different and should appeal to our contributors. It is in the shape of
the map of California.
There are many pluses in the contributions of 1990-1991. In deference
to the state of the economy, we are pleased to report that the average
contribution per contributor increased to $20.64, and the percentage of

295

Also of interest is the fact that of the six divisions in the jurisdiction , two
of them had increases in contributions. Division II and Division VI had
increases of 10.9% and 2.3% respectively. Interestingly enough, these two
areas are economically different and at the opposite ends of the state.
Another point of interest is that over 50% of the Lodges increased their
contributions over the prior year. However, the Lodges with increases were
not of sufficient magnitude to offset the decrease in contributions from the
Lodges.

296

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES

NUMBER OF MEMBERS CONTRIBUTING

For Years Ending June 30th

For Years Ending June 30th

297

NUMBER OF MEMBERS CONTRIBUTING
CONTRIBUTIONS THRU WDGES

For Years Ending June 30th

For Years Ending June 30th

( "·.;.:.· .
CdilDmio

·~ r--~~~-=--,--~~~~~~~~

.,_.

I

as .2

I

at .o
Iba

IOa

au
~o

..__.._......._....__.....__....__.............--...11....L.............,_._-it...-...J
I&

IB

t'1

118

111

110

Pi

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

296

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
299

PERCENT OF MEMBERS CONTRIBUTING

AVERAGE CONTRIBUTION PER CONTRIBUTOR

For Years Ending June 30th

For Years Ending June 3oth

PERCENT MEMBERS CONTRIBUTING

AVERAGE CONTRIBUTION PER CONTRIBUTOR

For Years Ending June 30th

~~
i

n

I
I

.I

I OI';
Cl';

66

118

IV

l!B

ca;tcm;a

i

!'

:I

2l:K

For Years Ending June 30th
125

s

go

91

Clo

/

115
11 0

k>

*'

~

~

i:~~....P J

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE

There is a major issue that needs serious attention and help from the
Brethren. "How can we reach the Brethren who do not now contribute to
the Endowment Fund and convince them to help in the support of our
Homes?" We often hear that many of our Brethren can't afford to contribute
because they are retired and on fixed incomes. We are sure that some of
our Brethren are in that condition but not 53% of our members! Even small
contributions are solicited . Just think, if every member contributed the price
of a cup of coffee each month, every Lodge would achieve Honor Roll. If
any one has any idea of how to solve this problem, please contact any
Endowment Board member and make your ideas known.

The lnd.ivi~ual Contribution Incentive Program is progressing very well
and. the ma1o_nty of ~he Lodges are participating in the program. We have
designed a b~llfold sized P!astic calendar for 1992. On the side opposite to
th.e calendar is the Masonic emblem and inscription, "It's up to you in 92 __
Grve to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund."
A number in excess of the membership of each Lodge was sent to the
Secretary of each Lodge with the hope that they will be included in the dues
envelope to each Mason in California. Hopefully, we will convince the 53%
of our members to contribute something to the support of the Endowment
Fund .
. We still have discrepancies in the reporting and recording of contributions a~ the number of contributors for Honor Roll recognition. Here is a
sugge~t1on -- How about making the check payable to the "California
Mas~rnc Homes Endowment Fund" and in the "Memo" section on the lower
left side of the check indicate the number of contributors. Think about it
that would be a permanent record!!
·
The Endowment Board is constantly reviewing the Masonic Homes
pamphlets to be sure that they are up to date and reflect current programs.
Last year the pamphlets were completely redesigned and we have received
many compliments. Lodges are encouraged to dispose of obsolete
pamphlets and order from the new ones because the information contained
in them may leave the wrong impressions and impact our Endowment Fund
Program.
In planning the printing budget each year we look at the historical orders
of pamphlets from the Lodges. One way that Lodges can help the Board
and to have up to date pamphlets, is to order only the quantity of dues
envelopes and pamphlets that it intends to use in one year.

T~e.~resentation of the book "The Greatest of These is Charity" to the
newly initiated Entered Apprentice has been a great success. The Board of
Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California are in favor of continuing the
progra~ and ~re_ en.th~siastic supporters of the program. There are many
Lodges in the JUnsd1et1on that still do not avail themselves of this program.
Our B~rd members will endeavor to see that each newly initiated Entered
Appre~t1ce has the opportunity to receive a copy of the history of the
Masonic Homes of California.

301

HONOR ROLL TABS AND CERTIFICATES
For those Lodges which have attained Honor Roll status of an average
of $9.92 or more per member for the first time since 1988, will receive a new
framed certificate. All other Lodges that have made Honor Roll status will
receive a 1991 seal for placement on their certificates. The frames and seals
will be presented to the Lodge during the Annual Communication by a
member of the Endowment Board.
MASONIC LODGE HONOR ROLL
The following Lodges have attained Honor Roll status by an average
member contr}bution of $20.00 or more per member:
Average
Contribution

No.

Lodge Name

236
799
780
444
377
376
329
837

Hills Ferry . . . . . . . .. $114.72
Clairmont Mesa . . . . . . . $70.47
Riveria . . . . . . . . . • . . $65.66
Carpinteria .. . . . . . . . • $52.14
Artesia . . . • . . . . . . . . $37 .63
Francis Drake • . . . . . . . $33.20
Vallee De France . . . . . . . $24.87
Joseph L. Shell Daylight . . . $23.48

Average
Contribution

No.

Lodge Name

614
724
442
220

Atwater Larchmont . . . .. $22.59
San Ramon Valley . . . . . . $22.13
Blackmer . .. .. .. .. . . $21 .55
Downey . . . . . . . .. • . $21.29
The Gardens . . . . . . . . . $20.50
Pacific Grove . . . . . . . . , $20.33
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . $20.30
Oak Grove . . . . . . . . . . $20.11

621
331
191
215

302

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The following Lodges have attained Honor Roll status by an average
member contribution of $12.00 through $19.99 per member:

The following Lodges have attained Honor Roll status by an average
member contribution of $9.92 through $11 .99 per member:

Average
No. Lodge Name
Contribution
59 Gravel Range
. $19.88
683 Redwood Empire . . •
. $19.43
327 Long Beach • . . •
. $18.41
813 Od West
. • • • •
. $17.79
436 Claremont . . . . . • . . . . $17.53
349
Sequoia-St. Elmo
. $17.41
224 Bakersfield . . • .
• •.. $17.17
825 Gemini
• . • • . . •
• $17.12
381
Oceanside
. $17.03
35.2
Metropolitan . .
• . $16.94
841
Irvine
• . . . . • .
• S16.80
574 S.W. Hackett
. . . . .
. $16.71
627 Lamanda Park Carmelita .. $16.70
58 Union . •
. • . . . • • . $16.48
676 Willow Glen . . . . • . . • • $16.42
322 Alhambra Progressive
. $16.29
380 Huntington Beach
. $16. 19
348 San Bernardino
• • . . $16.13
612 Camellia • . . .
. • $15.88
776 East 'Nhittier
. S15.49
618 Magnolia Park
. . . • $15.37
403
Verba Buena
. .
. $15.33
233 Calistoga
. • .
. $15.30
441
• . . . $15.27
Coronado
483 Bell • • . . . . . .
. . $15.26
462 Paul Revere
. . S15.23
346 Palo Alto-Roller
.. $15.20
3 Tehama
.• $15.09
609 Provident . • • . . . •
. $14 .90
192 Santa Barbara . .
. .• $14.83
300 Redlands
. . . .
. $14 .78
164
Harmony
. • . . . . • • • $14.72
141
Gratton . . . . . .
• .. $14.68
307 Santa Monica-Palisades . . . $14.57
840 Sunrise • . . • .
. $14.53
35 San Diego
. . . •
. $14.50
411
Perris
. • • .
. $14.45
394 University
. • •
. $14.43
373 West Los Angeles
. . . $14.41
241
Tustin • .
. • . . . . • . • $14 .38
315 Norwalk . . . . . . . . . . • $14.37
98 Hornitos . . . . . . . . . . . $14.32
273 Anchor • . • • .
. $14.28
674 Los Cerritos . • • .
. $14. 13
388 Columbia . . . .
. $14.11
835
Half Moon Bay . . . .
. $14.07
317 Fallbrook • • . . • . . •
. $14.07
378 Granada Hills
. $14 .06
521
Orinda-Plymouth
. . $14.05
469 Yorba Linda
.. $13.99
230 North Butte . . • .
• • $13.94

Average
Lodge Name
Contribution
Lake Tahoe
• . . . $13.80
Menlo Park Peninsula • . . . $13.79
Hanford
. . . . S13.79
286 Paso Robles • • • . . • . . . $13.75
663 Ojai
. . .
. • . . . $13.74
511
De Anza . .
. . . . . S13.67
112 Summit
. • • . . $13.66
428 San Dimas
.•. $13.61
95 Henry Clay • •
. $13.56
533 Azure
. S13.52
728 Lakewood . . . . . . . . . . S13.41
763 Arabic
• S13.38
328 Redondo . . . . . . . . . . . $13.35
407 La Mesa . . . . . . . . . . . S13.27
680 Carmel
. S13.25
113 Eden Standard
. • . S13.20
325 Consuelo
• .
. $13. 18
293 Orange Grove • • •
. $13.09
287 Winnedumah
. . . $13.06
225 San Leandro-Brooklyn . . . . $13.06
272 Pasadena Consolidated . . . $13.03
267 Galt
. • • . . . . • • . . . $13.01
712 Los Altos . . . . . . . . . . . $13 .00
139 San Francisco
. $12 .93
506 Zenith-Mount Olive . . . • . $12.91
243 Acacia
. • • $12.83
760 Lakeside
. $12. 79
580 Santa Maria
. $12.77
685 San Marino .
. S12. 75
425 Holtville
. . . $12.72
16 Eureka
. . . $12.70
202 Wisdom
. . . $12 .68
127 Hermann
. • • S12.64
633 Poinsettia
. S12.63
424
Exeter
. . . S 12.63
222 Roseville
. $12.50
404 Glendora
. . . $12.40
308 Monrovia
. . . $12.39
405 Moneta
. . . . . . . . $12 .38
126 La Fayette . • • . . .
. $12 .37
309 Delano
. S12.26
613 Three Pillars . . . . . . . . . S12.21
502 Harbor
. • . . • . $12.16
110 Pajaro
. . . . . $12.14
390 Imperial
. $12.12
406
Burbank
. • . . $12.10
168 Redwood City . .
. •• $12 .09
788 Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . $12.07
827 Kern River Valley . . . . . . . S12.06
14
Temple
. $12.05
No.
707
651
279

No.
389
677

296
771
178
422
736
435
242
1

167
447
400
579

383
290
78
632
656
512
367

666
572
13
607
244
480
806
653

830
61
351
669
535
753
256
524
396
418
188
551
321
750
567
625
775
181
754
446
542
169

Average
Lodge Name
Contribution
International City
.•. S11.99
. . . . S11.97
Liberal Ms . • .
Silver Gate • • .
. . . . S11.95
Mission Bay . . . .
. • S11.89
Phoenix . . . . . . . • . . S11.81
Eagle Rock-Glassel!
.. $11.74
Lemon Grove
. . . . . S11.68
George Washington
• • . . S11 .63
Magnolia-la Cumbre . • . . $11.62
Occidental California . . . . $11.61
Alameda . • . . • . • • . • . $11 .60
Torrance • . . . . . • • . . $11.60
. . . . $11.53
Burlingame . . .
. . . . . $11.53
Warren G. Harding
Orosi • . .
. . $11.51
. . . . $11.45
Fellowship
. . . . $11.41
Calaveras
. . . $11.40
Normal Heights
Citro! • . . . . . • . . ••. $11.38
. . . . $11 .36
Palms-Adams
South Pasadena . . . • • . . $11 .32
Reseda
. . • $11 .26
• • .
Westchester United
. • . . $11.22
Nevada
. . . . $11.18
Sojourner . . . • . . . . .. $11.18
• •
. . $11.17
Alcatraz •• : .
Acalanes-fellowship
. . . $11.15
..• $11.13
Simi Valley
Fontana . . . . . . .
. .. $11.10
Bicentennial Daylight . . . . $11.08
Live Oak . . . . . . .
, . $11.08
Fountain Valley . . . . . . . $11.06
JohnP.Jarman
. . . . . $11.05
Granada . . . . . . . . . . . $11 .05
Lawndale . . . . . .
. . $11.01
. . . . . $10.98
Lodi
• • . . • .
. . . . . $10.95
Catalina Island
Apollo-Woodstock
. $10.90
Elysian
. .
. $10.90
Oakland Durant Rockridge . $10.89
Tri Square . • • . . . . . . . $10.88
. $10.87
Alisa!
. . • . . .
Mother Colony • . . . ~ . . . $10.87
Pacific Rim . • • • . . . • . . $10.84
AM. Daylight . . .
. $10.84
San Dieguito . . . .
. $10.81
Russian River . . . . . . . . $10.80
San Pablo . . . . . . . . . . $10. 79
West Covina-La Puente
. $10. 75
North Hollywood . .
. • $10.72
Mission . . . . • • . . . • . . $10.66

No.
467
505
336
161
696
245
604

320
520
626
547
671
429
494
721
32
620
839
56
596
93
652
791
544
556
431
804
648
789
379
767
690

686
629
717
457
12
569
746
280
748
234
246
122

687
528

198
730
585

294
635

303

Average
Lodge Name
Contribution
Culver City-Foshay
. $10.65
Garden Grove
. .
. $10.63
Fruitvale
• • . . • .
. $10.62
Keystone
. $10.61
Crossroads
. $10.60
Laurel
. . . . .
. $10.57
Jubilee • • • • . . . . . .
. $10.57
Bellflower . . . • . . . • • $10.56
Ionic
. $10.55
Chula Vista .
. .. $10.55
Arcadia . . •
. •• $10.54
San Clemente . . . . . . . . $10.54
Pittsburg
• .
. $10.51
Acorn • .
• . . • •
. $10.49
Home
. . . . . . • . $10.48
Gold Hill
• .
. $10.45
Point Loma • .
. $10.44
. . . . . . . . $10.41
Three Stars
. $10.41
Volcano
. . .
. . . . . . . . $10.40
Southeast
St. Helena
. . . . . .
. $10.39
Crescenta Canada . . . . . . $10.39
General Henry H. Arnold •• $10.38
Glendale
. $10.35
. . . . . .
. $10.35
Fairfax • • .
Alpha Shattuck-Stephens
. $10.34
Moreno Valley . . . . . .
. $10.32
Damascus
. . . . . .
. $10.32
Oak Plains . . . . . . . . . . $10.29
Fillmore
• .
. $10.28
William Rhodes Hervey
. $10.28
. . . . . . • . $10.25
San Carlos
El Cerrito-albany
. $10.24
Westminster Fairview . .
. $10.23
Wayfarer
• $10.23
Rosemead
. . . . . .
. $10.22
Yount . . . . .
. $10.22
Chateau Thierry
. $10.22
Soquel
. . . . . .
. $10.18
Madera Joppa
. . . .
. $10.09
Highland . . . . .
. . $10.08
Hope . • . . . . . .
. . $10.06
Pomona • . . . .
• •. $10.04
Alamo
. • . . .
. $9.96
Vista . . . .
. .. $9.96
Beverly Hills . . .
. $9.94
Wilmington . • • .
. $9.94
Polaris
. $9.93
~ $9.93
Manchester . ,
Clarence L. Fraser • . .
. $9.92
Riverside . . . . .
• . . . $9.92

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EPILOGUE
Our sincere and grateful thanks to Grand Master Ronald A. Sherod and
to the Grand Lodge Officers, Board Members and Committeemen for their
support of the Endowment Program. We also wish to thank the Masters.
Wardens, Secretaries and especially the Lodge Endowment Fund Chairmen
for their efforts in furthering this worthy program.
We also extend a very special thanks to the 66,178 Brothers who,
through their continued generosity, contributed over one and a third million
dollars to the Endowment Fund during this fiscal year.
We appreciate the splendid assistance and support we have received
from the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees, the Grand Secretary's office
under the leadership of the Very Worshipful Robert A. Klinger. Bob, just a
personal note from the Board, we will really miss you and offer you and
Marilyn our very best wishes for the future. And to all of the staff of the Grand
Lodge Office a hearty thanks for all your help.
Once again I wish to offer my personal thanks to the Homes Endowment
Board Members for their dedication and devotion in the support extended
to me again during this past year as your Chairman. With all the new
demands presented to them, they have continued to respond with vigor and
enthusiasm and their response Is most gratifying. It trul y is the great people
of the Endowment Board who work so diligently that ensures the success
of our program.
My special thanks goes to Chuck Grossman, Wilber Holtzclaw, Nelson
Bartoo and Leroy Ervin. They have served with distinction and are now
leaving the Board.
Respectfully submitted,
John M. "Jack" Palmer, Chairman
Charles A. Grossman
Wilbur W. Holtzclaw
James S. Kemper
Nelson Bartoo
John W. Cathey
S. William Gershon
Douglas S. Veale
Daniel P. Halstead
Paul I. Greenwood
William E. Horseman
Bruce D. Johansen
William C. Temple
M. Shawn Donohugh
Leroy L. Ervin
Francis B. Holland
Stephen R. Miller
W. Russel Rudden
Milton M. Abbott, Jr.
Donald G. Aitken
Donald R. Bell
Robert F. Bunce
Virgil L. Gabrielson

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Thomas C. Geary
A. Lester Hutchison
Clarence L. Lambing
Kenneth E. Patterson
Jack M. Rose

305

Roger D. Howard
Richard W. Jeanson
t. Samuel McWilliams
Ralph C. Pfirrman
c. Ray Whitaker

306

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of Contributions to Endowment Fund

No.
11 2

* Denotes Honor Roll
No.
1

2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14
1e
17
18
19
20
23
24
25
26
27
30
32
33

35
37
38
40
41
42

43
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
~9

60
61
64
65
68
70
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91
93

95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
1 11

1991
1990
Membershop
Cont rib.
Lodge Name
Occide n1al Calfomoa . . • 662
$12.332.50
'593.00
Western Star . • • • . . . . 265
Tehama • • • • • • • • • • 411
$6.238.50
$1,296.50
182
.
. ..
Benica . .
. 278
$1,881.00
Tuolumne ••. , , . .
$ 1,005.00
Corinthian • , • • , . • . . 20-4
$3,257.50
San jow . • • . • • • . • • 356
$3,666.00
Youn1 . . • • • • • . . . • • 352
$3,184.67
.•• • 339
N&Vada
$2, 13'1.00
Temple . . . • • . . . . . 208
$2,212.00
Eureka . . . . . . . . . . . 354
. . • • . 84
la Parfait• Union
$525.00
$210.00
Mountain Shade • • . . . . . 33
$3,737.00
San Joaquon • • . • • . . . 503
$4,811 .00
Washington . . • . • . . . 486
S872.00
Mad oson . . • • • • . • • . 230
$476.00
Mariposa • • • • • . • . .• 209
$7 14.00
Georgetown . . • . . . . . 102
$1,963.75
El Dorado • • . . . . . . . 323
. . . . . . 197
$1,478.00
Trinity
$3,943.75
Golden Gate Sperania •• 453
80
_
$542 00
Gold Holl . . . , , . . . • .
$ 1,616.00
Ophir-Bea! Mou ntai n . . . 206
$16,3'16.95
. . . . • . . 1t14
SanOiego
$1,286.00
- · d . . . . . • . • • •• 203
324
.
.
.
•
•
$2,893.00
.
•
•
Santa Cruz
. • . . • • 412
$3,626.00
Sacramento
$1 ,805.48
Martinez • • . . . . • . . . 296
$4.214.00
Los Angeles . . . . . • • • 7 t2
$1 ,127.50
Hiram • • • • • • ••••• • 206
$795.50
Crescent • • • . • • • • • . 152
$915.32
Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
$ 1,098.00
F0<bes1own • • • • • . . • 136
. • . 7 41
lllinotstcwn
'562.50
$2, 188.84
Suisun • • • . • • • . . . • 30J
S 1,3'14.00
Volcano • • • • • • • • • • 187
$3,553.00
Santa Rosa . . . . . . . . . 426
$3,086.00
• • • • • • • . • • • 423
Union
$122.50
G ravel Range . . . . . . . _89
$535.00
Plumas • • • • • • • • • . • 103
$4,044.00
LMI Dak •• • • • • • • • • 379
$2,641.00
• • • • • • • . . . 398
Natoma
Amador • • • • • • • . . . . gz
$859.00
$5,363.00
Morning Star . • • • . . . . 620
4
27
.•••
Enterprise
$1,290.00
$ 1,536.00
Calaveras • • . • • • • • • 113
_ . . • 262
Humbo4dt
$ 1.895 00
$5 10.00
lone . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Woodland . . , _ _ _ . . . 260
$1 ,1M.OO
$1,204.20
Vesper . . . . . . . . . _. 249
$5,558.00
Na.al • • • • . • • . . . . . 536
$395.00
- • • - sa
Rose's Bar
$ 120.00
North Star . . . • • . . . . • 78
S895 00
St. Helena . . . . • . . • • _94
$715.00
Henry Clay • • • . . . . . • . 94
$63 1.00
• . • • . . . . . . 111
Hom~os
Sl.713.00
• • • • • . . • • 308
Yosemite
$471.00
• • . . . _ • . . 73
Clay
$3,300.50
OrOllille . . . . . • • . . . 441
Lexington . . ••••••• 370
52.449. 17
Arcata . . . . . . . ___ • 220
$ 1,072.67
$ 1,106 00
Pajaro • • • • . • • • • • • 177
$3,245.00
Choco ••••. .. . . . . . 622

1991
Conlrib.
$ 7 ,689.00"
$999.00
$6,200.50'
$1 ,334.50
$1 ,557.00
$1 ,049.00
$3.047.00
$3,598.00'
$3,790.50'
S2 ,507.CX>'
$4,495.00'
S535.00
$0.00
$2, 127.50
$4,212.00
$125.00
$978.00
$822.00
$2,176.09
$1,457 .00
$3,200.00
'835.94'
$ 1,5 10.50
S16, 153.82"
$1,042.00
S2.794 00
$3,652.00
$1,407. 72
$4,484.00
$1 ,321.25
$1 ,266.00
$545.30
$1,073.00
$513.00
$1,409.00
$1 .946.00'
$3,172.00
$6,969.75'
$1 ,371.50'
$540.00
$4,200.00'
$3,6()4 00
$ 774.00
$5,620.00
$1,445.00
$ 1,289.00'
$ 1,336.50
$710.00
$1,489.00
$1,507.00
$3,790.58
$!505.00
$320.00

5977.oo•
S l,275.00'
$1 ,589.50'
$1 ,764.85
$533.00
$3,538.25
$2.308.36
$ 1,208.00
52,148 .oo·
$2,504.50

113

1991

Conlrib.
334
69
278

Participation

A119.

"

Gilt
$11.61
$3.77
$15.09
$7.33
$5.60
$5.14
S8.56
$10.22
$1 1.18
$1205
$12.70
$6.37
$0.00
$4.23
S8.87
S0.54
$4.68
S8.06
$6.74
$7.40
$7.06
$ 10.45
$7.33
$14.50
$5.13
S8.62
$8.86
$4.72
$6.30
$6.41
S8.33
$7.79
$ 7.89
$6.93
S4.65
$10.41
$7.45
$16.48
$ 19 .88
$5.24
$11 .06
$9.06
S8.41
$9 .06
$5.27
$1 1.41
$5. 10
$7.98
$5.73
$6.05
$7.07
$5.74
S4. 10
$10.39
$13.56
$14.32
$5.73
$7.30
S8.02
$6.2 4
$5.49
$12. 14
$4.03

11e
56
140

50.45"
26 04"
67.64"
45.60%
41 .73%
27.45%
39.33%

206

59. ~

83

=
144

175

36
0
123
120
3
77
46
129
88
207
59
113

60J
82
149
233
113
712
131

77
42
87
45
89
93
322
217
1261
52
178
201
66
327
87
85
87
61

113
91
226
68

21
66
83

79
11 6

43
318
46
85
91
444

66.37"
69.23"
49.44%
42.86%
0.00%
24.45%
2469%
1 .30%

36 84"'45. 10%
39.94%
44 .6 7%
45.70%
73.75'!(,
5485%
54.13%
40.39'!(,
45.99%
56 55%
37.92"
100.00"63.59%
5066%
60.00"63.97%
60.81"'29.37%
49.73"'
75.59%
51 .30%
82.61%
5049%
46.97%
50.50%
71-74"
52.74%
31.75%
75.22%
33.21"'
68 54"
43.46%
36.55%
42.16"'
77.27%
26.92%
70.21%
8830%
71.17%
3 7.66%
58.90%
72.1 1%
12.43%
3884%
51-41%
7 1.38"'-

'

117
120
122
123
124
126
127
12e
129
131
132
13'1
135
136
139

141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
161
184
167
168
1!19
173
174
175
178
179
180
181

162
163
184
lei!
186
187
188
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203

204
205
206
'207

206
209
210
211
212
21 4

L~Nama

1991
Memberstllp

. . •• 108
Summtt .
Eden Standard • • • . • • • 292
Concord • • . . . . . . .• 181
Fidelity • . • . • •• • . • • 412
Alamo . . . . . . . . . . . 365
Sotoyome-Cunis • • • • • • 211
Table Mounta in . . . . • . 415
La Fa yalt• . • • . , .•• • 150
Hermann •• • • • • • . • , .81
Vosalia ••• • • . . • • •• 314
Nicolaus _ . • • . . . . • • 1 15
Woodbridge • • • • • . • • 180
Si~ri!y • • • • • • • • • • . 57
Vaeallflle • . • . . . . • . 299
Valley . _ . . . • • • • • . . . 77
L•banon· Pacil ic • . . . . . 769
San Francisco • , • • • . • 790
G rafton • • • • • • • • . • . . 78
Franklin • • • • • • • • • • . 82
Oriental • • • • . . . . . . . 216
VrtnMus .• , • • • • • • • . 97
Abell . . . . • . . . . . . _ 231
Eel River . • • • • • • . • . 159
Las. .n • • • • . • . . . • • 133
Molino . . • • • • • • • • • • 93
l(ays1on• • • . . • • • . • •. 49
Harmony • • • • • • • • • . . 32
Alameda .. • • • • • • • • 3'IO
Redwood City • • • . ••• 3'17
Mission • . . • . . • . . • • 376
. , 204
Elk Grow . • • • . . .
- • • . • • . 42
D<ylc.n
.V.Cioch-Branlwood . . •• 442
Phoanl• . . . . . . . . . . 320
Mendocino • • • . . . . . • 1 ~
Petaluma-Ha mihon • . . . 360
Russian River . . • • • • • . 84
Tuocan·M.,._11 •••• . , 117
Clear Lake-Callayomi • • • 244
Sie rra • . . • • • • • • . . . . 43
Claiborne . • • • • • • • • . 71
E.anlng Siar . • . . . . . • _44
l(atth • • . • • • • • • • • • 133
o.idand Durant Rockridge 424
NotlhemUgM ••••••• 132
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
Santa Barbara •• ••••• 237
Ferndale . . • • •. , , . • . 65
. . . . • . • 272
Mountain ViLandmart<-Buckeye . • •• 138
San Simeon • • • . • . . . _112
Wilmington • • . . . • . • • 279
Ha111ay . • • • • • • • • • • 165
• . . aJ
TruckM
. ••. 96
Siive)"'ille .
. • . 71 1
Wlsd0<n
•.• . e7
Confidence
Salina . . . • • • • . . • • 377
Oli.at ••••••• • • . • • 115
Slanlslaus • • . . . . • • • 315
Anaheim . . . . . . . • • 343
Rio Vls1a . . . . . . . ••. 95
King Da\'id's • • • . . • •• 282
Friendship , ••• • , , •. 327
San Bentto • • • • • • . . . . 94
c.oc..., ..... ..... . 400
San Buen...n tura • . ••• 323

1990
Cont rib.

$1,357.93
$4,13 1.50
$866.00
$ 3 ,938.50
SJ.228.00
$ 1.500.00
$2,441 .00
$616.50
S772.50
$2,871.44
$642.00
$1 ,895.70
$197.00
$1 ,512.00
S838.00
$ 3 ,349.00
$10.834.50
$1,190.00
$574.00
$ 1,9411.00
$632.00
S l.359.00
$1 ,4 23.00
$320.00
$974.00
SJ.12.50
S0.00
$2.402.00
$5,060.00
$5.3'14.00
Sl,312.13
$260.00
$2.056.26
$3,721.00
$1 ,743.00
$3.631.00
$948.00
$5.00
$682.00
$23.00
$463.50
$263.00
$676.00
$5.633.00
$559.00
$ 5,810 .33
$3,634.00
$380.00
$2,764.00
$1,421.50
$791.00
$3,768.82
$459.00
$690.00
S812.50
$ 7,790.00
$378.00
$2.965.00
$461.00
S l .625.00
$2,016.00
$590.00
$2,158.00
$3,247.00
$848.00
$2,901 .00
$2,896.00

1991
Contrib.
s1 ,475.oo•
$3,854.50'
$ 1,400.00
$3,831 .00
S3,6J5.oo•
$ 1,868.50
$2,462.50
$1,856.oo•
$771.00"
$ 1,390.00
$4 12.00
Sl ,782.50
$130.00
$1 ,800.00
$566 . 11
$3,879.00
s 10.218.00•
$1,145.00'
$695.00
$ 1.500 00
$800.00
$ 1,096.00
$1 ,210.00
$268.00
$535.00
5520.oo•
$471.00·
$3,944.48'
$4,194.50•
$4,009.00'
$ 1.723.00
$2 15.00
$2,520.01
$3.780.00'
$ 1~ 1.00

$3,502.00
$907.00'
$0.00
S825.00
$9.00
$428.00
$102.00
$856.60
'4,61 6 .00'
$ 758.00
$5 . 520.70'
$3,514.50'
$340.00
$2,436.74
$ 719.50
S896 00
'2.772.00'
$391 .00
$535.00
$620.00
$9,012.00'
$450.00
$2,491l.OO
$51l7.00
$ 1,675.40
$ 1,876 .00
$470.00
$2 ,316.00
$3, 150.00
$ 744.00
$3,222.50
$2,679.00

307

199 1
Controb.
75
114
104
289
109
162

338
56
35
116

41
15
12
128
38
265
381
55
32
86
47
1 16
85

26
50
28
4

168
217
189
88
10

263
186
76
224
47
0
77

2
18

13
47
1 ~7

57
195
143
23
122

66
83
95
2e
29
57
578
44

176
51
74
74
42
149
17
56
166
147

Participalion

"

69. 44%
39.04%
57.46%
70.15%
29.86%
76.78%
81.45%
37 . ~%

57.38%
36.94%
35.65%
485.56"
21.05"
42.81%
49.35%
34.46%
48.23%
70.51%
39.02%
39.81"'
48.45%
50.22%
53.46%
19.55%
53.76%
57. 14"
12.50%
49_41.,..
62.54%
50.27%
4 3.14"
23.81%
59.50%
58. 13%
48.72"
62.22%
55.95%
0.00%
3 1.56%
4.65%
25.35%
29_55.,..
35.3'1%
37.03%
43. 18%
71.69%
60.34%
35.38%
44.85%
47.83%
68.48%
3'1.05%
16.97%
3'1.94%
59.38""
81.29%
65.67 %
47.21 %
44.35'11.
23.49%
21.57%
44.2 1%
52.64%
5.20%
59.57%
41 .50"
45.51"

Avg.
Gill
$13.66
$13.20
$ 7.73
$8.8 1

$9.96
S8.86
$5.93
$12.37
$ 12.84
$4.43
$3.58

$9.90
$2.28
$6.02
$7.38
$ 5.04
S12.9J
$14.68
S8.48
$6.94
$6.19
$4.74
$7.61
$2.02
$5.75
s 10.e1
$ 14.72
S l 1.60
S 12.09
$1 0.66
$8,45
$5. 12
$5 .70
$11 .81
$8.02
$11.73
$ 10.80
S0.00
$3.38
S0.21
$6.03
$2.32
$6.44
$10.89
$5.74
$20.30
$ 14.aJ
S5 .23
$8.96
$5.21
$9 .74
$9.94

$2. 37
$6.45
$6.46
$ 12.68
$6.72
$6.63
$5.19
$5.32
$5.47
$4.95
$8.21
$9.63
$ 7.91
$8.06
sa.91

No.
215
217
218
220
221
222
224

225
226
228
229
230
~I

232
233
2:14
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
2:;()
~

255
256

258
259
262
264
265
267
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
283
286
287
289
290
291
292
293
294
295

296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

308

1991
M.mt>.Bhip
Lodge Name
237
.•
•
.
.
.
0... Gr0\18
.. 185
Monterey
.. . . . 260
Mosaic .
Down.y • • • • . • . . .. 37
••••• • . . . . . 17
Inyo
RoMYille • • • • • . . . . • 528
Bakersfield . . . . . . • • . 321
$an Leandro-B<oo~tyn • . • 324
$an Mateo . . . . . . . • • 256
Athens • • . . • • . • . . . 141
Vallejo-Solano . . . . . . • 357
. . . 204
No<lh Bun•
COll81o . . . . • • . . . . . . 45
JaneMlle . . . . , . . . . . 77
Calistoga • . . . . . . • • . . 7 6
Hope . • . . . . . . • . • • . 68
Surprise Valley • • • • . . , . 58
. • . . . •. 90
Hilla Ferry
Guadelupe . . • . . • • • • 213
Coluse • . . • . . . . • • • 116
• • • • • • . . . . • J.43
Tustin
Magnolia -La Cumb<• ••• 431
Aeec•a •••.• • ••• .• 661
. . . • . . . . . . 173
Alcatraz
. . . . • . . . • • 107
Laurel
. . . . 231
Pomona

1990

Conlrib.
$4,455.50
$1,106.50
$4,~.78

. . • • . 73
Anuras .
Fort Crook • • . . . . . . • 186
Reading . . • • . . . ••• 294
Welcome • • • . . . • . . . 384
Lodi . . . . . . . •. , •• 274
Penmyn • • • . . . • . . • 103
E-green . . . . . . . . . 465
Lompoc . . . . . . . . . . 284
Hesperian . . . . . . . • 338
Orland . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Gan . . . • • • . • • • . . • . 67
Olive Branch . . . . • • • • 212

$8,762.00
$275.00
$4,35-4.50
$.4,405.00
$4,859.00
$5,031.50
$ 1,105.00
$2, t69.00
$30.00
S0.00
$251.00
$984.00
S0.00
$220.00
$10,566.00
$1,357.00
'95.00
$4,138.00
$3,738.71
$8,326.77
$1,740.00
$235.00
$2,583.71
$1,023.50
$259.00
St,132.00
$2,477.00
$895.00
$3,01 2 .00
$376.00
$4,938.66
$ 1,181.00
$3,613.00
$627.00
$1,1!j,9.00
$818.00

. . . . , , . 24

so.oo

Pasedena Consolidated . . 577
Anchor . . . . . . • • • • • 243
Arroyo • • • • • • • • • • • 1 ~
Oakdale • • • • • • • • • • 170
Selma . • • • • • • . . . . 137
$an Gab<iel·So. GaJKornia • 367
Hanford . . • • • • • , , • 168
Madera Joppa • . . . • • • 234
Mount Shasla . . . . . . . 172
South Wesl • • . • . . . • • 425
Paso Robles • • . • • • • • . 92

$1,688.00
$3,001 .50
SI ,242.00
$429.00

Fresno

.

Snow Mountain

W innedumah

. . . . 377

. 24'4'

Elslna< . . . • • . . . • . . 144
Fellowship • • • . . • . . • 392
Santa Paula • • • . • • • • 259
Loo Gatos • • • • . . . . • 513
Orange Gr0\18 • • . . • • • 435
Clarence L. Fraser . . • . . 173
• • • • • • . 79
Moun1 Jackson
Silver Gale • • • • • • • . • 450
Ounsmuir·McCloud • . • • 151
Liberty • • .. . . . . . . . 259
Redlands • • • • . . . , . . 327

Ontario .. .. . . . . . . . 262
s.nta Lucia . • • • . . . . 112
F'OtlefVille·Lindsay • • • • • 430
Reedley • • • • • • • • • • 118

~.00

$3,668.00
$1 ,685.00
$2,240.00
$788.50
$4,064 .00
$2,458.65
$2,849.95
s1,2:i0.00
$5,954.33
$1,1 70.00
$4,672.00
$6,356.90
$1,363.50
$655.00
$3,495.89
$2,150.00
$2,572.00
$4,6-43.00
$4,232.50
$735.00
St ,465.00
$598.00

1991
Contrib.
S4,7se.oo•
$1,190.00

Contrib.

,.

132
84

55.70%
34.59%

Part icipation

1991

so.oo

0

o.~

$8,048.50•
$225.00

108
15
273
135

28.57%
19.48%
51.70%
42.06%
80.80%

se,802.oo•
$5,51 2 .00•

'4,230.oo•
S0.00
St ,090.00
$1 ,901.00
$2,844.50·
$60.00
$47.00
s1, 193_50•
$63.4.00·
St0.00
s 10.325.oo•
$1,370.63

1117
0

62
106
292

4
78

63
26
86

$~00

5

$4,931.ClO'
$5,009.03•

44
224
806
73
67
100
58
33
103
118
126
136
30
161
68

S8,48J.oo•
$1,931.83'
$1,13 1.00'
$2,320.00'
$84 \.50
$334.00
$1 , 145.00
$2,428.00
$2,488.00
'3,ooe.50•
$.450 00
$.4,016.00
$2,037.00
$3-4.69
$877.00
$1, 132.00·
Sl ,290.00
$190.00
$7,519.00'
$3,488.89'
$1 ,258.50
$1 ,031.00
$1 ,167.50
$2,506.00
$2,3t6.00'
$2,362 oo•
~ - 00

$2,4•5.00
$2,839.65'
$3, 186.50'
$9&0.92
$4,486.50'
$1 ,305.00
$4,211.00
S5.69J.50•
Sl,715 50'
$.455.00
S5,378. 19•
$1, 120.00
$2,364 .50
'4,833.00'
$1,638.00
$270 00
'1 ,402.00
$827. 19

0.00%
'3.97%
29.69%
1'3. 14%
2.22%
5.t9'11o
97. 44%
92.65%
1.72%
28.811%
40.38%
4 .31%
1283%
51 .97%
121.94%
42.20%
62.82%
43.29%
15.38%
45.21%
55.38%
40.14%
32.81%
49.84%
29. t3"'
34.62%
23.~%
O.~

80
61
68
11

470
117
92
35

63
116
92
141
49
124

126
158
53
157
72
231
230
85
40
212
99
119
169
80

to
94
29

63. 49'11.
70.11%
32.06%
•5 83%
81 .46%
48. 15%
47,42%
20.59%
45.1111%
31.!!1%
54 78%
60.26%
28.49'11.
29.18%
6667%
84.75%
36.81%
40.05'11.
27.80%
4503%
52.87%
49. 13%
5063%
47. 11%
65.56%
45.95%
51 .68""'
30.53%
8 .93""'
21.86%
24.58%

A"9.
Gill
$20.1 1
$6.43
S0.00
$21.29
S2.92
$12.50
$17.17
$13.06
S0.00
$ 7.73
$5.32
S13.~

$1.44
S0.61
$15.30
$10.06
S0. 17
s 114. 72
$6.43

so.et
$14.38
$11.62
$12.63
Sll. 17
$ 10 .57
$10.04
$2.23
$4.58
$6. 15
$8.26
$6.48
$10.98
$4.37
$864
$ 7.17
$0. 10
$6.96
$13.01
$8.06
$7.92
$ 13.03
$14.28
$6 49
$6.06
$8.52
$6.83
$13.79
$10.09
$3.69
$5.75
$13.75
$13.06
$6.70
SI 1.45
$5.04
$8.21
S t 3 .09
$9.92
$5.76
$11.95
$7.42
S9. 13
$14, 78
$6.25
$2.41

s.J.26
$5.32

11191
Membership
. 202
. 290
. , . .

No.

Lodge Name

305
306
3()7
308

Gol<Mn A.hlar
Santa Mon1ca Pahsede1 . • 418

309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
320
321
322
323
324

325
326

327
328
329
331
332

334
335
336

337

338
339

J.41
J.43
J.44

346
347
348
349
351

352
355
356
357
362
363
365
366

367

368
369
370
372
373
376
377
378

379
380
381
383
384
387
388
389

390
391
393
394

Azusa
4

Monrovia . • • • • • . . .

102

Delano • • . . . • • • • • • 1111

SlHon·White Pine • . . . . 111
Loa Banos • . • • • • • • • 115
T•hechapi • • • • • . . . • 151
T•meocal . . • • . . . . . • 279
Norwalk . . . . . . . . . . 888
Sang•r • • • • • • • . . •. 154
F allbroo- • • • • • • . • • • 205
S.lmo...r . . . . . . . . . . 563
Alisa! • • • • • • • • • • • • 246
Alhambra Prog ressive . • • 407
Whittier • • • • • • • . . •• J.43

CO<ona . . . . . . . . . . . . O
Consuelo • • • • • • • . • • 5 72
Needl•• • • • • • • • • • . 11>4
Long 8-AC:h • • • • • • • • 376
Redondo . . . . . . . . . • 565
Vallee Oe France • • • • • • . 75
Pacific Grove . . • . . . • • 2ee
Loa Angeles Harbor , . . • 646
Covina . . . . . . . . • . . 453
West Gale . . • • . . . . . 550
Fru itvale . . • • • • . . • • 297
Polnl·Plnole . . . . . . • . 382
San Jacinto • • • • . . • • t 01
Full•rton • • • • • • • • • • 300
Oxnard . . . . . . . . . . . 335
$an Fernando • • • . • . • 384
Starr King , . • • • • • • • 631
Palo Ano-Roller •••••• 444
t.lclCinley • . • • • . • • . • 177
San Bernardino ., . . . . . . 7"6
Sequoia-St. Elmo . . .•• 463
Fountain Valley . . . . . . 248
Mel ropolit a n . • . • • . . • 396
Hojlywood • • • • • • • • • 847
'-'111 Valley • . • • • . . • . 192
. • • . . . . • 506
Buana Par1<
O.arily . . . . . . . . . . . 234
Berl<&ley . . . . . . . . . . 439
Will~• • • • . • • • . . • • • 124
Las Palmas • • • • • . . . • 989
Sou1h Pasadena . . . . . • 282
.i.-1 Cty • • • • • • • • • 563
Oc•an Parle • • • • • • • . 209
Brolherhood . . . . . . . . 610
Garden a -Ascol •• •• ••• 463
West Loa Ang•las . . • • • 208
Franct1 O..ake . . . . . . . 203
Artes1a . . . . . . . . . . . 390
Granada Hills . . . . . •• 437
F1llmor• . . . . •• .• . . 142
Hun1ington Beach • • • • • 500
Ocaanaide . . . . . . . • 396
O<oal • • • . • • • . . . • • Hl6
El Centro • • • • • • • • • • 244
Coalinga • . . . . . . . . • • o
Columbia . . . . . . . . • 196
International City . • . • • • 912
Imperial • . • • • • . . . • 121
Eut Belt •••••••• •• 138
Columbia·Bald•r • • . • • • • O
Unr..Bity • . . • • • . • . • 223

1119()

Contrib.
$1,828.72
$1,958.00
$6,573.93
$823.00
$1,395.06
$781.14
$837.00
$1,070.0t
$2,404.00
$7,966.00
$870.00
$2,498.00
$5,491.00
$2,530.00
$5 ,604.52 .
$3, 11 5.00
$1, 150.00
$6, t29.88
$1,280.00
$5,254.00
$5,404.00
Sl,206.00
$4,299.25
$4,693.00
$2,907.00
$24,077.50
$366.00
$3,065.00
$412.00
$3,078.00
$2,282.00
$2,172.42
$3,971.50
$6,869.00
Sl,417.99
$11,924.00
$9,582.00
$6,723.00
$8,584.00
$5,413.00
$2,335.00
$3,371.00
$2,090.00
$3,642.00
$35.00
$5, 133.00
$3, 1118.00
$ 7, 103.50
$2,062.75
$ 7,775.50
$6,237.78
$3,407.00
$5,190.50
$5,099.00
$2,977.00
$ 1,805.00
$7,820. 44
$5,905.25
$815.00
$1,688.00
$ 1,742.00
$2,539.50
$9,716.00
$ 1,270.00
$1,067.00
$ 7,3118.50
$2,919.70

1991
Contnb.
$ 1,190.48
'2,624.50
$6,069.90'
$ 1,264.00·
Sl,459.36'
$51 \.00
$497.00
$900.42
'499.00
$9,886.75'
$ 1,13().00
$2,885.00'
$5,943.00'
'2,675.00'
$6,629.00'
$2,691 .00
$0.00
$7,538.06'
$1 ,016.00
$6,923.29'
$7 ,5.40.92'
S l,865.00•
$5,407.10'
$3,117.00
$3,964.00
$4,057.00
$3, 153.82'
$2,610.00
$528.00
$1 ,429.00
$2,759.00
$ 1,216.00
$2,562.00
$6,74 7.50•
$1 , 1911.00
s 12,0J.4.00•
$8,409.25'
$2,742.00'
$6,709.00'
$6,062.50
$1 ,682.00
'4,370.00
$ 1,736.00
$3,753.00
$ 1.049.00
$3,063.00
$3, 192.50'
$5,013.00
'2,000.43
$3,972.00
$3,630. 16
$2,998.00'
$6,739.00'
$ 14 ,676. 19•
$8,142.04•
$1 ,460.00'
$8,096.00·
$6,744.50•
$1 ,219.92•
$1 ,740.00
$0.00
$11,233.50'
$1 0,938.00'
$1,467 .00'
$820.00
$0.00
$3,217.50'

309

Participetion
A"Q.
Gill
"'
25.25%
$5.811
50.1)()%
$9.05
50.24%
$14.57
105.88%
$12.39
31.09%
$12.26
47,75%
53
$.4.80
58.26%
67
$4.32
50.33%
76
$5,96
11.83%
33
Sl .711
54.36,.
374
$14.37
38.31%
59
$7.34
$ 14.07
95.61""'
196
42. IO'!i.
237
SI0.56
38.21%
94
$ 10.87
51.60%
210
$16.29
25.36%
87
$7.85
Cons. wtth Paseden a No. 2i2
$ 13 . 18
69.41%
397
$8.20
35.37""'
58
49.47%
186
$ 18 .41
60.71%
J.43
St3.35
42.67%
$24.87
32
73.31%
195
520.33
147
$4.83
22.76%
34.44%
156
$8.75
124
$7.38
22.55%
47.14%
140
$ 10 .62
42.15%
161
$6.63
48.51%
49
$5.23
$4.78
18.33%
55
107
31.94%
$8.24
JS.Hi%
135
$3. 17
32.96%
$4.06
208
$15.20
65.54%
291
$6,77
28.25%
50
63.67%
475
$16.13
$t 7 .4 t
69. 77%
337
6 7 .34%
167
$11 .06
$16 . ~
52.53%
208
4 3 .89"
284
$9.40
$8.78
41.6 7%
80
134
$8.84
26.48%
$7.42
34.62%
81
39.86%
175
S.S.55
$8.46
48.39"
60
14 .56%
144
$3. 12
$11.32
53.19"
150
49.73%
280
$8.90
$9.57
73.2 1%
153
$6.5 1
34.75%
2 12
$7.8 4
39.3 1%
182
$14.41
4 7. 12%
98
$33.20
182
89.66%
277
$37.63
71.03%
$14.06
34. 10%
149
$ 10.28
57.04%
61
$18. 19
49.60%
248
$17.03
7424%
294
$ 11 .51
50.94%
54
$7. t3
40.57"1>
99
Cons. wtth Welcome No. ~
$14. 11
51.26%
406
$ 11 .99
52.7 4%
481
$12. 12
54.55%
68
46.38%
' $5.94
64
Cons. wo1h Columbia No. 318
14.43
73.54%
164

1991
Contrib.
51
145
210
106
37

s

No.
395
398
397
399
400
402

'°3

"°"
405
ol06

407
408
411
415
417
418
419
420
421
422
"24
425
426
427
•28
429
431
433
435
436
437
439
'41
442

...

445
4'6

...7

4"e
450
451
452
457
459
460
462
483
4115
466
467

469
473
475
476
479
480
482
463
485
486
438
490
493
41M

499
!501

502

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

310

19Q1
1990
Membenoh•p
Cont rib.
S1,89B.OO
~1
•
.
.
Tu~ock
. . • 387
S2,5e5.oo
Apollo-Woodstock
SJ,113.00
Alsing Ligh1 . . . . . • . • 298
'2,775.00
Fr81emily . . . . . . . . . . 291
S4,843. 23
. . . . . . . . 422
Bu~ingam•
S1.095.00
Br-'-Y. • • . . . . . . • 1""
$5,850.00
Yefba Buena •••• •••• 463
$2,560.35
Glendora . . •••• •••• 22!1
SJ,055.00
Monet• • • • . . . . . . . . 245
$5,925.0.C
Burbank .• •• • . . . • • H6
S4,196.00
La Mesa . . . . . . . . . . 356
SJ.~7.60
Ana Mt. S.erra . . • . . • • 273
S4,385. 50
Perrio • . • . • • •••• •• 407
Sl ,154.00
Silwf Tr.,_I , . . . . . . , 268
$2,988.00
Ct0\111 • .• . • • • . • • • • 467
. 169
Sl,831.00
Elysian
S2, 194.20
Upland . • • • . . . . . . . 242
$285.00
95
.
•
.
•
.
.
•
•
•
.
•
K.rman •
SJ,617.00
Inglewood.James K.w • . . 389
SJ,•39.12
Eagle Rock-OtasMll •••• 310
$2,340.00
Ex81er . . . . . . . • . •. 136
'977.00
Hollville •••. . . . . . . . . 68
$1,189.50
•••• •••. ~
Ta"·M~y
$1,265.00
Chino Valley •••••••• 152
$2,250.60
San Dimas . . . . . . . . . 182
$1 ,487.90
Pitlsburg . . . . . . . • • 161
S4, 108.78
Alpha Shattuck-Stephens . 387
$929.00
HamrnO<llon . . • . • • • • 125
S4,762.62
George Washington . . • • 306
. . . 190
$2,176.00
Claremont
$3,967.QQ
Lancuter • • . . . . • . . 389
S1 ,780.00
Tynan . • • . . . . . . . 203
$3,656.50
Coronado • . . . . . .. 250
$10,081.05
Blackmer • • • • . • . • . . 563
$6,063.00
CafPinteria . • • . . . • • • t 62
S37,329.00
Golden Gavel •• .• ••• 419
SJ,706.00
W*Sl Cc:Mna·La Puente •• ~
• • ~92
$5,295.00
Torrance . . • • . . .
$2,•94.00
. . 264
Mount Dlablo
$6,177.52
Vari Nuys . • • • . . . . . . 720
$4,096.00
Montebello • . • . • • • . . 398
$2,976.00
Sari Pasqual . . . . . . . • . 0
S4,79-4.24
Ros.mead . . . . . . . . . 523
'926.38
Riverbank •••. . . . • . 130
$610.00
. . 200
Mount 0.0
• • 215
SJ,365.25
Paul A.wre
. . 1!'>3
S956.00
Morgan H•ll .
$1 ,12500
.. 233
Cente< . . .
$2,995.00
UM<lu·Securily . . . . . . !508
'1 ,8 16.00
cui..r City-Foshay . . . . • 205
SJ,226.20
Yorba Linda . . . • •••• 204
S l.002.00
Blylhe ••• • •. . • . . . 161
Sl,796.00
America • • • • • • • • • • 1119
$960.00
Coachella . . . . . • • . 178
$4,043.77
Golden Rule . . . . . . . . 506
435
$4,911.00
Acatanes-Fellowship . . . .
$720.00
Clarence F. Smith . . • . • . 0
$5,848.00
Bell •••• . . • . • • • . • •15
1,059.00
$
Chowchilla • • • . . . . . • 135
$3,291 .00
Galedonla . • • . . . . . . 378
$122.00
Pane ™'" • • . . . . . . . 108
$403.00
Corcoran . . . . . . . . . . . o
'543.00
Atascadero . . • • • • • • . 107
$2,420.00
Acorn • • • • . . . . . • . . 253
$3,775.00
Capital City • • • • • • • • • :i62
$1 ,211.00
WeMWO<>d . . • • • . • • . 170
$1 ,798.00
Harbor . . . . . . . . . . . 2n
Lodge Name

1991
Contrib.
$ 1,705.50
'4,220.00•
$2,744.86
$2,761.00
S4,864.50•
Sl,015.oo
$7,10000•
$2,790.22•
S3,0J<l.oo•
$5,760.99•
U ,722.117"
$2,581.00
$5,882.50.
$726.75
$1,432.00
S1,842oo•
$2,088.70
$182.00
$1 ,015.00
SJ,640.9-4'
$1 ,717.00'
$364.90'
$1,492.00
S1 ,08ll.OO
'2,477.00'
$ 1,692.50'
$4,003.00'
$7!'>3.50
SJ,559.50'
$3,330.00'
$3,876.00
$830.00
S3,818.00'
$1 2, 130.97'
$8,446.00'
$3,440.00
S3,462.33'
S5,706. 10•
Sl,737.00
$4,924.10
SJ.098. 16
S0.00
15,346.02'
S900.50
$0.00
$3,275.30'
Sl,334.00
$1 ,707.50
S3, 132.00
$2, 183.00'
S2,85•.oo•
Sl ,075.00
$1 ,340.00
$990.00
S2 ,SAO.OO

S4,851.00'
S0.00
$6,331.00'
~. 00

$2,326.00
$ 117.50
$0.00
S7'5.00
$2,655.00'
$4,18'1.00
Sl ,267.00
S3,369.00'

1991
Contnb
112
145
163
105
239
71
267
182
18'1
232
222
139
312
•3
118
74

Participation
1'
32.84%
37.47%
54.70"{.
36.08%
56.64%
•9.31%
57.67%
80.89%
75.1Cl%
48.74%
62.36%

Avg.
Gift

$5.00
$10.90
S9.21
'9 •9
$11 .!'>3
$7.05
S15.33
$12.AO
$12.38
$12.10
$13.27
50.~
'9.•5
S14.45
76.66'%
S2.71
6.04%
S3.07
25.27%
43.79%
S10.90
$8.55
36.36%
88
$1 .112
14.74%
14
$261
3.86%
15
$ 11 .74
56.•5%
175
$ 12.83
1~.56%
183
$ 12.72
•5.59%
31
$4.29
22.99%
80
$7.16
40.79%
62
S13.81
51 .65%
9-4
S10.51
54.66%
88
$1 0.3'
46.5 1'1(,
180
S6.03
44.60%
56
$11 .83
59.60%
183
$17.53
77.89%
148
$9.45
47.56%
185
S4.Cl9
23.15'1(,
47
S15.27
67.60%
169
$21.55
70. 16'(.
395
82. 7~
S52.1•
1~
$8.21
13.84%
58
$10.75
33.54%
108
$11.80
•2.89%
211
$6.12
26.08%
74
S6.M
28.06%
202
$7.78
39.45%
157
Cons. wi1h Pasadena No. 272
$10.22
53.15'lb
278
77.69"
S6.113
101
$0.00
0.00%
0
145
67.44%
$15.23
$8.72
66.01'l'
101
S7.33
~.20'%
89
183
S6.17
36.~
$ 10.65
93
• 5.37'J'
$13.99
55.39'%
113
S6.68
~ .78%
56
s7.113
37.28'l'
63
S5.56
15.73%
28
S5.61
168
33.20%
$11 .15
41.61'l'
181
Cons. with Granada Hill• No.378
$15.26
51 .8 1%
215
$7.08
61.48%
83
S6.19
42.29%
159
14.15%
S l.1 1
15
Cons. wi1h Olive Branch No. 2e9
SS.96
82.62%
67
$10.•9
t06
•1 .00%
S7.44
54.63'l'
307
S7.45
75.29%
128
S 12. 16
48.01%
133

No.
505
!j()6

!507

510
511
512
513
518
520
521
524
528
529
530

!132
533
535

540
542
543
544
547
548
551
552
556
557
561
564
567
569
572
574
576
577
579
580

582
583

585
586
588
590
591
5112
59!1
596

800
801
804

807
809
811

812
613
814
815
8 16
617
818
620
621
823
825

626
627
829

1990
11191
Contrib.
Memberthip
Lodge Name
$1,930.00
. . • 732
Garden Grove
S6,393.67
Zenith-Mount Olive • . •• 541
Sl ,37•.00
El Segundo • • . . • ••• 194
Sl ,880.00
CUpertino • • . • . . . • • • 0
$3,4113.00
•49
O. Anza . . • •• . . •.•
SJ,403.00
Palms-Adams . . • • • • • 21 4
$1,920.00
Cahuenga·La Brea .•••• 217
Sl,2'6.00
La Jolla .• •• . . • • • • • 200
$9,690.50
Ionic •• • • • • • • • . ' ' 870
$4,825.00
Orinda-Plymouth • . • . . • 395
$2,144.00
Catalina t.land • • • • • • • . 119
$3,2•1.00
S.Wrty Hilt. • . . . . . •• 231
S l,595.00
Loyally . . • • • • • • • • • 551
$1 ,177.00
Sun Garden . • • • • . . • 293
S582.00
Smyma • • . . . . . • • • • 200
SJ,490.00
Azure ••••• . • . . . .. 248
$7,005.78
Granada •••.• •• , .. •95
$5,790.00
au-n Vista • • • • • • •• •38
$7,961.15
North Hlollywood • • • • • • 454
$1 1,710.50
Shoreline . • • • • • . • • • 679
SJ,086.00
Glendale • • • . • . • • • • 410
$845.00
Arcadia • • • • ' • • • • • • 2116
,958.00
$1
Triangle • • • . . . • . . . 1119
$5,874.00
•71
•
Tri Square • • . • • • • •
$1 ,658.50
Semper Virens • • . . • . • 203
$2,768.00
Fairfax . .. •••••• •• 28•
$2,084.00
Hermosa·Manhattan • • • • 288
SJ,1 20.00
East San Diego • • . • • • 538
$2,867.25
FOOChlll . • • • • • • • • • • 423
$6,053.79
Pacific Rim • • • • • •••• 4112
Sl ,543.40
. . • 703
Chat. .u Thierry
$7,064.50
Westchester United . . • • 410
S4,417.811
S.W. Hackett • • . . . . . • 303
$3,416.50
El Cajon Valley . . • • • . . 514
$1 ,992.00
Sunnyside • • • • • • • • • 191
$3,858.00
W81fen G.-Hard1ng . . • • • ~2
S1 ,702.50
Sarna Maria • • • • • • • • 145
$2,157.00
Rlallo . . . • • • . • • , •• 273
Sl,183.00
WUGO •• • • . . . . . . , 130
$1,342.00
Manches1er . . . . • • • • 133
15,419.00
Garden Grove . . . . . • . , 0
$2,526.00
Matta-El Sereno . . •••• 250
Sl ,3 16.00
. . . . • • 187
Compus
$565.00
• • • • • • 132
Eocalon
$635.00
. . . , •• 168
Tu)unga
$2,779.0A
Tri . . • . • • • • • . . . , 260
$7, 1113.50
Southeu1 ••• • • . . . . 697
S2, 186.00
L~ .. , . . • . . • • 249
S196.00
Grinley • . . . . • •••• . 58
$2, 183.00
Jubilee ••••••••••• 216
$3,321.26
Sojourner . . • . . • • • • 165
S3,118.22
Prc:Mdent • • • • • . • • • • 266
$1,864.00
•• • • 246
Canoga
S4,222.80
•••• 272
Camellia
$2,696.62
Thr- Pillart , . . . • ••• 226
S4,227.36
Atwaler Larchmont , , . • • 2911
S4,029.25
Hemet • ' •••• • . • • • 497
Sl ,642.64
R.E. Dolley • • • • • • ••• 260
$706.00
Big Bear . .• • • • • • • • 154
S4,A85.00
Magnollll Park •• . •• • • 431
$4,170.15
Point Loma . • . • . . • • • 426
$2,668.00
The Gardens • • . . • • • • 187
$7,954.00
Menorah ••• ••••••• 906
S2,867.00
A.M. Daylight • • . . . . . . ~7
$7,687.50
Chula Viola •••••••• • SM
S4,085.52
Lamanda Pan. CarmeMa • 292
$1 ,612.00
Weslmlns1er Fairview ••• 185

11191
Cont rib.
$7,778.68'
S6,983.10'
$1 ,380.00
$0.00
$6,138.00'
'2,431 .00'
$505.00
$906.00
Sii,180.00'
$5,5!50.00'
Sl,084.00'
'2,297.2•'
S0.00
$1 ,093.00
'377.00
S3,353.oo•
S5,470.~'

$3.357.50
$4,866.00'
$6,115.23
M ,243.74•
$3,1 10.00'
$1 ,617.00
$5,125.00'
S1 ,854.00
$2,938.00'
$ 1,893.00
$3,544.13
$3.913.50
$5,332.97•
s1.135.oo•
S4,&02.oo•
$5,082.24'
$3,654.50
$1 ,316.00
$3,942.00'
$1 ,852.00'
$1 ,836.00
$905.00
Sl,320.50'
S0.00
$2,300.00
$100.00
$625.00
$935.00
$2,007.00
$7,245.50"
S2,113.00
'289.00
$2,283.0A'
S l,M•.28'
SJ,964.02'
$1 ,866.00
S4,319.00'
S2,n'>8.84'
$6,753.00'
$4,714.83
Sl .618.00
S l.216.00
S6,1S2e.oo•
S4,4'5. 40'
$3,833.00'
$7,710.00
$3,780.00'
$7,212.80'
$4,877.00'
$1 ,893.00'

311

Participation
""V·
%
Gift
51.64%
$10.63
!'>3.97%
292
$12.91
S7.11
47.94'!1.
93
51 1
No.
Anza
0.
with
Cons.
$13.67
52. ~%
235
$11.36
45.79%
98
S2.33
14.75%
32
$4,53
32.00%
64
$ 10.55
45.40%
3115
s14.06
52.86%
208
'3.43"'
S10.96
43
31.801'
$9.IM
73
$0.00
0.00%
0
18.0ll'!I.
SJ.73
53
$4.39
29.50%
59
72.58%
S13.52
180
37.17'1(,
Sl 1.06
18'1
35.8'1%
S7.87
157
$10.72
215
•7.36%
50.98%
$9.01
346
$10.35
48.29%
198
$10.54
46.44%
137
S&.57
56.60%
98
$10.88
50.!'>3%
238
'9.13
49.26%
100
$10.35
56.89%
161
$5.88
109
37.85%
26.39%
S6.59
142
$9.25
37.35%
158
$10.M
•5.73%
225
S10.22
50.50%
355
S11.22
150
3659%
$16.71
40.92%
12•
$7.11
•0.'7%
208
SS.89
44.50%
85
S11 .53
71.05%
243
s12.n
56.55%
82
15.99
35.16%
96
S6.96
53.08%
69
$9.93
52.63%
70
Cons. with Garden Grove No. ~
$9.20
51.20%
128
S0.53
0 .53%
1
$4. 73
29.55%
39
$5.57
19.64%
33
38...6'(.
$7.72
100
SI0.40
52.22%
364
'3.49
127
51.00%
$4.98
80.~%
35
31.()2%
$10.57
67
$11 .18
48.•8%
80
$14.llO
62.03%
165
S7.59
~ . 50%
107
$15.88
56.62%
154
$12.21
68.14%
15•
$22.59
80.54%
181
$11.49
!>3.32%
265
~.46'(.
S6.22
100
S7.1IO
49.35.,.
76
$15.37
56.381'
243
S10.44
75.~
323
$20.50
8'1.49""
158
'3.51
36.3 1%
329
$10.M
78.96%
274
St0.55
53.1151'
369
$18.70
50.~1'
147
$10.23
160.00%
296

1991
Cont rib.
378

312

No.
632

S33
63-'

835

1138
&12
&14
6'17
Ma
651
852
853

1156
657
11:18
1159
880
863
tltl5

8 8Q

870
1171
1172
874
1175
878
877

879
680
861
862
883
8M
865
88'1
867
890

881

882
1183
885
1186

-

7 00
701
707
708
710
7 11
712
713
714
717
718
719
720
721
724

72'!
7211
730
732
733

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

19'11
Lodge N..,,,.
Membership
Normal Height• .• •••• 478
PoinMhla . . , . . . . . . 524
Voct<>Mlle • • • • . • • • • . 311
Aiwrslde . . . . . . . . . • 380
Compoohe ••••• •••• 394
LaCumb<e • • • . . . . . • • O
Lomha . . . . . . . . . . . 283
~home • • • • . . • • • 270
Demucus • • • • . . • . • 424
Menlo P&1k Pen insula . . . 295
O..C.nte Canada • • • • • 4311
Fontana • . • • . . . . . . 201
Chrol • • . • • • • • . • • • 170
John D. Spr.ckels . . . . . 30"4
LMngs1on . • • . . . . . . 1311
La Hab<a • • • • • • • • • • 318
Baldwin Park • • . . . . . . 186
Ojai . • • • . • • • • • . • • 144
1(-.h
• • • • • • • . . • . 86
ReMda . . . . . . . . . . . 838
San Go<gonio • • . . . . . 210
John P. Jarman • . • • • • 2311
GrMnlaaf
. . . . 457
San Clemente • . . . . . . 166
Saddieback Laguna . . • • 250
Los Cen-hos •••••••• 371
Modesto • • • • . . . . • • 329
Willow Glen . . . . . . . . 308
Liberal Art1 • . . . . . . • • 232
Ceoby Croos • • . . . . . . . 83
C.rmel .
. . . 153
Doi Palos • .. .. .. • . . 85
Barstow • • • . . . . . • • 331.J
Redwood Empire . . . • • . 81
Trone • • • • • • . . . . . . . 95
San Marino . . • . • • • • • 225
El Ce<rito-Afbeny . . • • • . 220
Villa . . . . . . . . . . . . 30e
San C&llOI •• , . . . . . . 246
Indian Wallo Ya!ley . • . • • 283
T.-rs • • • • • . • . . . 124
Palm Springs . • • . . • • • 289
Me.-11-0tldale . . . • . . 303
Crouroads • • . . . . • • • 196
Bl•by Knolls Neptune •.• 502
Ponden:>M .
• 0
Santa Ynez Valley . . . . . 14 7
Lake Tahoe
. . . 87
SMfarlng • • • • . . . . . . 399
Anac:ape . . . . . . . . . . 254
Aim o1 the Wofld . . . . • . 138
U..Ahos • • • • . . . . • . 244
Bay V--C.Stro Yaney • • • O
Blue Lakes . . • . . . .
15 t
Way1erer . • .
13"
San Lorenzo Yalley
103
Este<o • • . . . . . . . • . 157
Mineral King • • • • • • • . 154
Home

. . . . . . . . . . . 552

San Ramon Yalley . . . . . 197
Yucaipa • • • • • . • . • . 211
Lakewood . . . . . . . . . 273
Polari1 • . . . . . . . • • • 151
San Juan • • . • • . . . . . 357
Golden Empire . • . • . . • • O

n.

Kit

73!1

Oui1 of Mara

ear.on .. .. .. .. .. 0

• . . . . . . 133

1990
Cont rib.
$5,447.50
$7,018.27
Sl,256.00
55,127.00
54,117.00
$1 ,040.00
$2,025.00
1.2,610.00
$4,766.00
$4,296.00
$3,964.00
$.410.00
S 1,687.00
$1,235.00
'560.00
$2,256.44
$690.00
$ 1,918.35
SA02.25
$8,288.00
$1,656.00
$1,570.00
$4,243. 40
$1,730.00
$2,257.00
$1 ,045.00
Sl,740. 16
$4,275.50
1.2,263.00
$490.00
$1,338.00
S588.50
$2,666.00
S563.00
$286.00
Sl,9311.00
1.2,165.00
$3,249.97
$3,180.50
S2,418.00
$819.33
Sl,002.00
$2,825.00
$2, 16.l.50
S4.298.08
$1 ,1 57.00
Sl,373.00
$1 .052.00
$4,480.80
$3,000.00
$660.00
$3,232.00
$.4,250.00
$1,236.50
$1,220.00
$1, 1"3.00
$1,124.00
S 1,130.00
S5,336.00
S3,3"7.00
$1,662.00
$3,592.50
S1,035.00
1.2.687.66
$944.00
$1 .633.75
$837.50

1991
Cont rib.
$.5,448.50'
56,620.00'
$1 ,4'8.00
SJ,7117.85'
1.2,591.33
S0.00
$2,798.00
52,267.00
$4,374.00'
$4,069.00'
$4,562.00'
$2,232.00'
$1 ,935.00'
$1,.225.00
$566.00
52,353.44
$570.00
Sl,979.00'
$208 00
$7, 185.00'
$1 ,930.00
1.2,831.00'
S-4,089.25
S1 ,750.00'
1.2,290.00
55,241.00'
$875.00
55,056.00'
52,777.00'
$395.00
s2.028.00'
S0.00
$3,245.00
Sl,574.00'
$159.00
$2,869.00'
52,253.00'
$3,077.00'
S2.521 .00'
S2,405.00
$569.00
52,185.25
$1 ,570.00
1.2.077.00'
S2.3"3.00
$0.00
$968.00
St,201.00'
$3,741 .08
S2,440.3A
59"3 00
$3,172.00'
$0.00
5935.00
$1,371.00'
5626.00
$1 ,099.00
$1,115.00
55,782.96'
54,360.oo•
$105.00
$3,860.00'
$ 1,500.00'
$2,757.00
$0.00
S0.00

$475.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1991
Participation
A119.
Cont rib.
'llo
Gift
274
57.32%
,, 1.40
2311
45. 42'llo
S12.83
96
30.87%
S4.B8
21 2
55.79%
59.112
313
79.44%
$8.58
Cons. ...ih Magnolia No. 242
, 17
41.34%
$8.89
96
35.56%
$8.40
206
49.08%
$10.32
1&1
55.59'!1o
S13.79
201
45.79""
$ 10.39
98
48.76"'
$11 .10
68
50.59'!1.
$11 .311
47
15.46%
$4.03
50
36.23%
$4.10
110
34.81%
$7.45
8
4.78'1.
$3.39
71
49.31%
$13.74
19
21.59'!1.
S2.311
364
57.05%
$11 .26
72.311%
152
59. 111
126
52.9'1%
$11.05
129
28.23%
$8.95
97
58.•3%
$10.54
126
50.40%
S9. 16
214
$ 14.13
57.68""
49
14.89'11.
$2.66
87.53%
208
$16.42
140
80.34%
$11 .97
14.211%
9
$6.27
87
56.86%
$13.25
0
0.00%
S0.00
183
55.45%
S9.83
44.44%
36
s 19. "3
11
11.58%
$1.67
103
45.78%
S12.75
1411
66.36%
$10.24
207
66.99%
$9.96
143
58.13%
$10.25
123
43.46%
$8.50
46
37. 10'JI.
$4.75
30.10'JI.
87
$7.56
51.49'!1.
156
$5. 16
136
811.39""
S10.60
2 1.51%
108
$4.117
Cons. wllh Las Palmas No. 366
55
37.41...
S6.59
42
48.28%
s 13.80
205
5, .311%
S9.311
1 15
Sll.61
42
56.93
2411
S13.00
Cons. wi1h Ashland No. 796
48
31 .79"
56. 19
89
66.42%
$10.23
56
54.37%
56.08
61.15...
96
$7.00
48
29.87""
$7.24
281
50.91%
$10.48
41.62%
82
$22. 13
1.42'JI,
3
S0.50
104
$13. 41
311.10'JI.
50.33%
76
$9.93
200
56.02%
$7.72
Cons. wi1h Caph•I City No. 41111
Cons. with Union No. 58
31
23.31...
$3.57

No.
7311
740
741
746
747
748
749
750
752
753
754
7511
780
7112
763
765
767
769
771
773
775
776
778
780
782
764
786
786

7811
790
791
793
795
71i7
796
799
800

802
803
804
806

807
808

810
811
813
814
815
616

820
821
822
824
825

826
827
830
831
835
837
8311

8AO
641

1119()
111111
Lodge Name
Membership
Contrib.
Lemon Grow
.•• 412
$4,728.45
,, ,2311.50
Opportunity . . . . . . • . 134
Tyre . . . • • • • • • • • . 332
$1 ,2911.90
Soquel . . . . • •• . . • • 132
Sl ,3111.00
Claud9 H. Morrioon •••• 219
1.2,1 48.00
Highland • . . . . . . . . . 113
$945.00
Merced • • . • • . . , ••• 168
5590.00
Mother Colony . . . • •.• 379
$758.00
Luther Burbank . . . . . . 348
$13,529.36
~dale • • • • • • • . • • 152
S l ,338.00
San Pablo • . . . . • • • . 123
$1,508.00
Claylon Valley Saini John's 50 t
$5,242.07
~
. . . . . . . . . • 197
$1 ,460.50
Coutline . . . • • • • • • • 114
$735.00
Arabic • ••• • • • • • • • 181
$1,584.00
Dana A. Weller • • • • . . . 1 1S
$793.00
William AhodH Herwiy • • . 82
$540.00
Palmdale • . . • . • • • • . 252
$1,071.00
Miulon Bay . • • . . • • • 196
$2,310.00
Tejon ••. , • • • • . • • • 180
$ 1,195.00
San Dlegulto . . . . . . • . 187
$2, 190.00
E... Whittle< . • • • • . . • 224
$4,084.50
La Mirada . . . . . . . . • . 0
$4,298.74
Riveria . . . . . . . . • • • 116
$3,106.00
Siiwrado • • • • . • • . . . 145
$1,1184.00
Lelan d S1anf0<d • • . • • • • O
$997.00
Rio Unda . • • • . . . • . . . 97
$1 ,459 00
Sierra • • • • • • • . . . • • 149
S0.00
Oal< Plains • . • • • • • • • 446
$3,656.00
Granada Hills . . . . . • • • 0
$3,710.00
General Henry H. Arnold
$1114.00
. 96
Maya • • • • • • • • • . . . 151
5561 .00
Amerlc:an Riwr • • • • • • • 142
$722.00
TilaPu1 . . . . . . . . . . 139
$ 745.00
Aahland . . . . . . . . . . . 0
$ 1,647.00
Oairmont ~ . . . . • . 142
$1,300.00
El Rancho Alo Hondo • . • 23"
$1,429.00
Yucca Valley . . . . . . • • 169
$1.'84.01
The Gabilan . . . . . . . . . 98
$372.00
Moreno Valley . . • • . . • 179
$1.101 .66
Simi Yalley
• • • • • . . . 152
$2,409.80
Conejo Valley . . . . . • • 262
$2,814.13
$947.80
SceP•r .. . • • • . • • • • 154
Voctotie Palms . . . . . . . 101
$2,181 .50
Woodland Hills • • • • ••• 217
1.2,445.00
Ok:f Wes1 . . . . . . . . . . 256
'4.418.96
$860.00
Plaza De Los Angeles .•• , O
Mount Baldy • • • • • . • . 119
$1.024.50
Greal Lights • . • • • • • . 405
'2.496.00
Mar \/lsta . • . . . . . . . . 207
$2,100.98
S50500
Gat-y . . . . . . . . . . . 0
Boron • • . . . . . . . . . . 91
$300.SO
Camarillo . • • . . . • . •. 255
52. 491 .00
Gemini • ••• . . • . . . . 151
$2,198.25
$310.40
Palm Desert .
. . 89
Kam Aiwr Yalley • . . . . . 24J
S2,t39 50
~antenmal Deyligh1
5672.00
• • . 108
Sublime . . • . . • • • . . 187
$83500
Half Moon Bey . .
$2,395.00
• .. 54
$1 ,910 50
Joee9h L. Shell Dayt19ht . . 102
Three S1&11 . . . . . . . • • 130
$347.00
SunrlM . . • • . . • • . . . 80
$661.00
Irvine . . . . . . . • • • • . . 50
$58900
Fo•-Coates Deytight U.D.
. 56
Sll2.00
Northern Cahfornia Research 0
S0.00
Cantrel California Res.arch

. O

El Camino A.March . • • . • 0

so.oo
sooo

1991

Contrib.
SA ,811.77•

$1,322.50
Sl,213.00
Sl ,344.00'
$1 ,741.00
s, , 1311.66"
$878.00
$4, 119.14'
1.2.ee...66
$1,!174.00•
$1 ,327.00'
$2,1134.00
52,519.00'
$1128.00
S2, 154.00"
$764.00
$&43.00"
$ 7311.00
$2,331.00•
$ 1,207.50
$1 ,804.50'
53.470.00'
$000
$7,616.00'
S712.00
S0.00
S 1,081.00
$1 ,799.00"
$4,589.00"
S0.00
S996.00"
$766.96
$.3"2.00
S775.00
S0.00
s 10,007.40"
S2, 132.00
$1 ,658.22
$318.00
$1 ,646.93"
S l,691.60 '
52.461 .63
$1,075.50
$67200
Sl.338.00
54,553.00"
S0.00
$836.00
$3.256 00
Sl.384.76

sooo
$375.8 4
S2,506.00
1.2.585.26"
S0.00
$2,931 .78"
$1, 197.00"
$870 00
$760.00"
$2,394.46"
St .:J5J.OO"
sa12.oo•
$840.00'
$110.00

sooo

313

1991
Contrib.
253
71
45
'8
130
91
73
177
152
75

Part;.,ipatlon

AYg.
Gift
$11 .86
59.87
$3.115
$10. 18
$7.95
$10.08
$5.82
$10.87
$8.66
$11 .01
26
$10.711
213
$5.86
84
$12.79
37
55.51
136
s, 3.311
97
$6.6'1
35
$10.28
45
S2.93
17.107
$11.89
54.59'!1o
96
60.00'!I.
S7.50
$10.8 1
811
53 .29'lb
224
100.00%
$ 15.49
Cons. .,.;1h Molner Colony No. 750
122
105.17""
565 66
44
30.34%
S4 91
Cons. wi1h Chico No. 1 11
49.24%
97
55 49
4765%
71
S12.07
205
$ 10.29
45.96'!1.
Cons. ""th Gra,,ada Hills No. 378
72
75 00%
s10.311
.,
27. 15%
$5 08
30
21.13%
S2 .,
46
33.09%
55.58
Cona. wilh Crow Canyon No. 5119
91
64 08%
S70 47
78
33.33"'
59., ,
120
71.01%
$9.81
42
42.66%
SJ.24
90
50.28%
S10 32
$1 1.13
44.08%
67
121
46.18%
$9.40
75
$698
'8.70'JI.
48
4 7.52'%
SS.6.l
44.24%
96
$6. 17
120
$17.79
46.88%
Cons with Los Angeles No. 42
43
36. 13%
S7.03
125
30 66'!1.
$8 ().4
76
36.71%
$669
Cons. ""th Paclf'oc Grow No. 331
44
•8 35%
$4.13
, 99
78.04%
$9 8J
112
$17 12
74 17%
0
S0.00
0.00%
5 7.20'!o.
139
$12 06
t09
$t 1.08
100.93'!1.
85 56'!1.
160
$4.65
$14 0 7
5185'11.
28
S23.'8
133.33..
136
S10 41
116
89.23%
$14.53
85.00'llo
51
$16.!IO
00.00%
30
$1.516
23.21%
13

S0.00

0
0

so.oo

0

'!I.

61.41'!1.
52.99%
13.50'!1.
311.311%
59.36%
80.53%
43.45%
46.70'JI.
43.93"'
49.34%
21.14'!1.
42.51%
42.64%
32.46%
64.47%
64.35%
42.68%

314

No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1991
1990
1991
Lodge Name
Membership
Contrlb.
Contrib.
Soutnem California Research 0
Sl,903.!IQ
'2,118.50
Alt• Cal~om ia Research
0
'33.CO
so.co
Orange County ReMaroh ' ' 0
sin.co
Sl!IO.CO
TOT"1..S
. . . . 139565 $1,441,132.80 $1 ,365,768.0"

...

O..rilll Avera119 Gift
. . ..••••
A-.ge Conlrlb<llion Per Contribu!or • • • ,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1991
Contrib.
2•0
0
37
66178

Participalion
~

A119.
Gift

•7.•2%

SQ.79

315

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F.& A.M. of California:

Public Schools: Working For the Present - Ensuring the Future

Sll. 79
'20.~

With the above Public Schools Week theme for 1991, the Grand Lodge
Committee on Public Schools continued to operate under the "Memorandum of Understanding" issued by Past Grand Master the Most Worshipful
Stanley L. Channon, which delineated specific responsibilities of the Substance Abuse Prevention Program to various Grand Lodge Cornmitt.ees.
Primarily, the Public Schools Committee was charged with the responsibility
for developing procedures to use in order to apply for funding of proposal
under this program. Furthermore, this Committee was designated to
receive and review the school systems' funding applications and recommend those deserving support to the California Masonic Foundation.
Because of the amount of available funds, the Committee continued to
work with and receive superb support from the County/State Steering
Committee (CSSC), an adjunct of the Association of County Superintendents of Schools, in enacting these responsibilities. Clearly, this cooperation has realized many new friends for Masonry. Countless expressions of
gratitude have been communicated to the Grand Lodge.
The amount recommended for distribution again showed a substantial
increase: $149 ..449, as opposed to $114,000 for last year. The amount was
awarded to the ten Healthy Kids Regional Centers, ensuring that all public
school systems would benefit from the awards. These centers are jointly
established by the State of California's Department of Education and the
several County Offices of Education. Every effort was made to involve those
included in the "memorandum of understanding, " the Lodges. District Inspectors, Committeemen, and other members of the Masonic family. Some
work still remains in order to attain optimum involvement of the fraternity,
schools, and general public.
With the increase of the Committee for 30 to 50 members, there was a
noted increase in Committee activity in other areas of its responsibility.
There were many reports of excellent Public Schools' Week Observances from throughout the State covering such activities as scholarship
awards. recognition of student and staff excellence, and even a "shootout"
and dramatic skit at a historical "gold country" community in the Sierra
Foothills.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It was evident that many Lodges are aggressively implementing creative
ideals in linking with their local schools.

Uniform By-Laws

316

Respectfully Submitted
Joseph Silveira, Chairman
John B. Allard
Jorge H. Andresen
Edward L. Barber
Frederick H. Baribeault
Gordon M. Browning
Floyd B. Buchanan
James A. Buchanan
Wayne Butterbaugh
Harold W. Croulet, Jr.
Earl Cumpiano
William M. Ferrell
Leonard B. Froomin
William E. Hendrick
John D. Holland
James B. Hollingsworth
Melvin R. Jones
Ken Kessel
Alexander T. Kirkpatrick
Marvin E. Locke
Saul Madfes
Harlan L. McWhorter
Roger S. Murray
Clarence E. Noble
Jack D. Paris

Darel N. Reynolds
John W. Riley
Augdon D. Roberts
Ronald D. Robinson
John W. Runcie
Theodore Schuman
Jack H. Spittler
Frank G. Stapp
William H. Stockard
Richard F. Stout
Robert S. Sturgeon
Robert B. Svendsen
Howard L. Tait
Douglas J. Theriault
Roger W. Torrey
Everett L. Walsh
L. Albert Wheeler
Billy R. Wilkerson
Dewayne Wright
Raymond A. Young
Roy L. Youngblood
Uril E. Compomizzo, Consultant
Ralph C. Dills, Consultant
Rodger D. Siems, Advisor
Oyde M. Stine. Advisor

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON TEMPLE PROPERTIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lcxige, F.& A.M. of California:

The Committee on Temple Properties and Taxation is pleased to submit
the following annual report of its activities for the 1990-1991 Masonic Year:

317

Again this was the number one subject of the inquiries to our members
and for activities of the members in working with the Temple Boards.
Compliance with the California Masonic Code, sections 2304 and 2305, on
the required use of the "Uniform By-Laws" and the periodic return of funds
above those necessary to operate the Temple Boards to the ownership
lodges to hold in trust have been foremost in our efforts.
The Committee has been more aggressive In calling upon the administrative arm of the Grand Lodge, the Inspectors, to enforce the
provisions of the California Masonic Code. as they relate to the Temple
Associations within their various administrative districts. The chairman has
meet with Inspectors at their schools in the Third, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth
Divisions and was represented at the schools for the First Division, where
these roles were discussed.
Financial Reporting
Tne most recent reports to the Grand Lodge from the Temple Associations indicate that the financial health of many of the Temple Boards are
"ailing". Of concern, the decline In number of tenants renting the Temple
Association buildings on an on-going basis as a result of mergers, dwindling
numbers of youth and ladies groups and the fewer lodges remaining as
tenants. Recent changes in the Masonic Law on "outside rentals" have not
yet had their full impact on the Temple Associations, but are making our
facUies more competitive in price. This development will be monitored
closely in the coming years and reported to you.
Committee Reorganization
The Committee has undergone a very basic reorganization, with the
addition of the duties of the former Special Committee on Taxation. The
membership has been learning the complexities of the tax codes and the
situations that our lodges and our temples face yearly in meeting and
fufilling the requirements thereof. This appears to be another area of heavy
Impact upon the duties of the committeemen.
Committee Publication
In 1983, the Committee issued its "Handbook'', which has been in use
as a guide to the Lodges and Temples throughout the State. In 1990 the
revision of the "Handbook" was begun, and the 1990 annual communication
changed several of the areas of the proposed book.

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

An abbreviated edition of the future handbook has been used with much
praise in the sessions with the Inspectors, and with some area Temple
Associations. Until the full editing work can be agreed upon and completed
the abbreviated edition will "make do."
'

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON

Workload
The Com~i~ee's workload is growing, as more of the Lodges and
Temple Assoc1at1ons come to a realization that there is help available in the
area co.mmitteeman, and that all they have to do is ask for it. In Temple
Properties alone, the workload has grown tremendously, with many of the
Temple projects requiring multi-year attention from the committeemen as
the work progresses; especially on the new temples that are being discussed
and proposed.
Special Thanks
The Committee expresses its appreciation on the Grand Lodge staff, the
Grand Secretary, Robert Klinger and his staff, and the members of the
Insurance Committee for their aid and assistance in the past year.
We certainly have appreciated the full support and assistance of the
Grand Master and Deputy Grand Master. their accessibility and rapid
responses to our requests. allowing us to communicate decisions to the
Lodges faster than ever before.
A special thanks is also given to the many Masters, Wardens. Presidents,
Ch~irmen, Temple Association Members and especially the Inspectors for
their thoughtful and considerate hearing of our problems and their constructive comments.
Respectfully submitted,
David A. Moeller, Chairman
Donald Geiger, Vice Chairman, Temple Properties
Charles B. Morgan, Vice Chairman, Taxation
David Anderson
Thomas Luby
Lowell E. Daniels
Donald B. McClary
Louis I. Goldkind
Mark E. Schrock
William I. Tool, Consultant

319

U.S. CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Locfge, F.& AM. of California:

The purpose of the Annual U.S. Constitution Observance celebration is
to honor the document that forms the basis of our national democracy and
our individual freedoms. As Masons, it becomes an opportunity to recall a
moment in history when 23 of the 39 signers of the U.S. Constitution were
Masons. The Grand Lodge of California encourages each lodge to openly
celebrate the anniversary of this document in September with a patriotic
program and further encourages the lodges to invite the public.
The U.S. Constitution Observance Committee is organized to support
the lodges in California as a resource for planning and assisting with the U.S.
Constitution Observance programs. Using several methods to organize
earty planning efforts. some committeemen wrote to the Masters of the
lodges, some telephones the Masters, a few visited the lodges directly, and
others attended the District schools of Instruction. Additionally, the committee sponsored booths at the Annual Grand Lodge Communication and
at most of the Officer Administrative Seminars conducted around the state.
The booths were decorated with display materials to get lodge officers to
think about their U.S. Constitution Observance program plans and to get
them to take free samples/supplies for the programs.

.

As a result of the above methods of lodge contact to promote early
planning, many of the lodges included the committeemen on their U.S.
Constitution Observance Committees and, in a couple of cases. the committeemen acted as Chairmen for the lodge committees. In giving assistance with the programs, many of the committeemen provided display
materials, several advised and some acquired speakers or other entertainment for the programs, a few became speakers (themselves) for the
programs, and a small number acted as hosts for the programs.
A sampling throughout California by the U.S. Constitution Observance
committeemen, indicate that more than 90% of the lodges held a program.
Sixty-six percent of the programs featured a speaker. Among the speakers
were current Grand Lodge Officers, past Grand Lodge Officers, U.S. Congressmen, California Assemblymen, judges, attorneys, a Dean of a Law
School and a Sheriff. Almost 40% of the programs were oriented to entertainment such as plays by various Scottish Rite Bodies. picnics and barbecues, U.S. Flag programs, a parade, a high school essay contest, a high
school debate, a Daughter's of the American Revolution play, and a citizenship program co-sponsored by the U.S. Naturalization and Immigration

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Service. Most of these programs, approximately 75%, were held as special
events on special days or evenings. The remainder were included with the
dinner and activities of the Stated Meeting.

MORNING SESSION - WEDNESDAY

The majority of lodges now seem to be combining their programs with
at least one other lodge, and many have combined to form district or
multi-district programs. These larger programs were the best advertised
and received the greatest public support.

At 9:00 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on with the Grand Master presiding. This session of the Annual Communication was raised by Ronald C.
Perry, Junior Warden of Catalina Island Lodge No. 524 using the gavel
presented for two cornerstone laying ceremonies in Santa Maria. Other
gavels used during this morning session had been presented to the Grand
Master at the annual Western Bar-b-que at Davis listed by the 21 Oth Masonic
District and at a reception for him by Bell Lodge No. 483 and the 592nd
Masonic District.

320

Respectfully submitted,
Thomas C. Holm, Chairman
Lloyd D. Beacham
Allen S. Beddoe
Franklin E. Eastman
Charles V. Edwards
Ramon A. Figueroa
Charles H. Foster
Timothy J. Heer, Sr.
Steven M. Johnson
Sam L. Levin
Robert W. Martin
James J. Nash, Jr.

John V. Neal
Timothy Nunn
Richard Pracht
Jay Rider
Joseph H. Ross
Oren C. Rupert
Donald G. Souza
Ronald Stein
Lawrence A. Webster
Alden E. Westergren
Bradley A. White

321

OCTOBER 16, 1991

Grand Master Sherod announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election of the elective Grand Lodge officers for the ensuing Grand
Lodge year. Those elected and their Lodge were as follows:
The R:.W:. Stanley M. Cazneaux, Marin Lodge No. 191, was
elected Grand Master.
The R :. W :. R. Stephen Doan, Triangle Lodge No. 548, was elected
Deputy Grand Master.
The R:. W:. Warren J. Blomseth, Tri Square Lodge No. 551, was
elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W:. William F. Stovall, Queen Vista Lodge No. 540, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The V:.W:. Herbert H.P. Wilkins, Arcadia Lodge No. 547, was
re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The W:. John L. Cooper Ill, Consuelo Lodge No 325, was elected
Grand Secretary.
The V:. W :. Ulysses G. Patropulos, Starr King Lodge No. 344, was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The following were appointed to serve the Grand Lodge as officers for
the ensuing year:

The W :. David C. Decker, Upland Lodge No. 419, was appointed
Senior Grand Deacon.

The W : . Larry W. Coyle, Consuelo Lodge No. 325, was appointed
Grand Chaplain.

The W .-. Joseph W.R. Ashwill, Bixby Knolls Neptune Lodge No. 699,
was appointed Junior Grand Deacon.

The W:. Edward P. Margherio, McKinley Lodge No. 347, was
appointed Asst. Grand Lecturer, Div. I.

The W :. Pete Bernardo, Sublime Lodge No. 831, was appointed
Senior Grand Steward .

The W:. Howard E. Moore, Athens Lodge No. 228, was appointed
Asst. Grand lecturer, Div. II.

The W :. Paul Owyang, Fidelity Lodge No. 120, was appointed
Junior Grand Steward.

The W: . Paul D. Hennig, Menlo Park Peninsula Lodge No. 651, was
appointed Asst. Grand Lecturer, Div. Ill.

The W:. Donald W. Maltby, North Hollywood Lodge No. 542, was
appointed Grand Pursuivant.

The W:. Rueben F. Herrold, Porterville-Lindsay Lodge No. 303, was
appointed Asst. Grand Lecturer, Div. IV.

The W .·. Harold M. Hand , Fellowship Lodge No. 290, was appointed
Grand Organist.

The W:. Samuel E. Harris, Camella Lodge No. 612. was appointed
Asst . Grand Lecturer, Div. V.

The W :. Michael Balopoulos, Brotherhood Lodge No. 370, was
appointed Grand Tiler.

The W:. Edwin A. Robinson, Buena Park Lodge No. 357, was
appointed Asst. Grand Lecturer. Div. VI.

In addition to the above appointments Grand Master elect Cazneaux
announced the following appointment:

The W:. Harold S. Stein, Jr., Lebanon-Pacific Lodge No. 136, was
appointed Grand Orator.

To serve as a Masonic Home Trustee, William F. Stovall by virtue of
his election as Junior Grand Warden.

The W : . Richard 0. Wright, Lodi Lodge No. 256, was appointed
Asst. Grand Treasurer.

Note: Following the installation of the Grand Lodge officers, it was
reported that R:.W:. R. Stephen Doan, Deputy Grand Master and R:.W:.
Warren J. Blomseth, Senior Grand Warden, by virtue of their offices are also
members of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees. Others continuing to
serve as Trustees are Roy J. Henville, PGM, Alvin J. Weis, Verl B. Lobb,
WWliam W. Dickson, Gerald A. Sharer, Eugene R. Perkins. Warren T.
Buschmann. Victor Howard and Ernie Pooleon.

322

The W:. H. Francis Lewis, Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192, was
appointed Asst. Grand Secretary.
The W :. Loyal L. Stark, Acacia Lodge No. 243, was appointed Grand
Marshal.
The W :. James W. Matthews, Jr., Chico-Leland Stanford Lodge No.
111, was appointed Grand Standard Bearer.
The W:. Richard S. Weber. La Mesa Lodge No. 407, was appointed
Grand Sword Bearer.
The W:. Jay Rider, A.M. Daylight Lodge No. 625, was appointed
Grand Bible Bearer.

323

It was further reported that R :. W :. R. Stephen Doan was appointed to
the Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, taking the
place of Stanley M. Cazneaux. Others appointed were Donald B. McCaw,
PGM and George Ingram. Continuing as Trustees are Robert A. Bush,
Donald E. Weisse, William J. Taylor, Jr. and Francis A Russell. Jr. This
completes the required number of Trusees.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At 11 :00 a. m., all business of the 142nd Annual Communication having
been completed, Grand Lodge was called off. to be called on again at 3:00
p.m. for the open Installation of the newly elected and appointed officers to
serve for the ensuing Grand Lodge Year.

as the Master of Marin Lodge No. 191 and which had been presented to him
by his parents. He delivered a brief message, thanked the Installing Officer
and Master of Ceremonies introduced several groups which had come for
his installation and invited those in attendance to repair to the Temple's
Exhibit Hall for a reception and light refreshments. Adjournment was at 4:30
p.m. with Grand Lodge to be formally closed following the reception.

324

325

AFTERNOON SESSION • WEDNESDAY
OCTOBER 16, 1991
Promptly at 3:00 p.m. the officers to be installed were escorted into the
Memorial Temple auditorium by the newly appointed Grand Marshal and
assumed their respective stations and places for the purpose of being
formally installed.
INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
With Past Grand Master Donald B. McCaw acting as Installing Officer
and Past Grand Master Roy J. Henville acting as Master of Ceremonies, the
appointive officers were individually introduced and collectively installed in
their respective offices. The Grand Lecturer, Grand Secretary and Grand
Treasurer were then individually introduced and together were installed,
following which the Junior and Senior Grand Wardens were introduced and
installed. Following the installation of the Deputy Grand Master, Gloria
Cazneaux, the wife of the Grand Master-elect, offered a vocal solo, "Once
in a Lifetime." Following the ceremony of installation of the Grand Master,
she again sang a solo, "The Lord's Prayer." She was accompanied for both
solos by Constance Torrey, organist. The newly appointed and installed
Grand Chaplain addressed the assemblage with a short talk entitled "law of
Echos," and Past Master Royal Dano delivered a tribute to the American flag
which was received with a thunderous and prolonged round of applause.
Past Grand Master Pavlovich presented Terry Sherod , wife of the Junior
Past Grand Master Ronald A. Sherod, with a gift on behalf of the Grand
Lodge and Past Grand Master Sherod was presented with his Past Grand
Master's apron, lapel pin and certificate attesting to his status by Past Grand
Masters Stanley L. Channon, John W. Driskell and Leo B. Mark respectively.
Past Grand Master Sherod appropriately responded.
Grand Master Cazneaux called on each newly installed Grand Lodge
Officer who in turn introduced the members of their respective families who
were present. He then accepted several gifts from members of his familyone of which was the gavel he had received in 1976 when he was installed

At 5:00 p.m Grand Lodge was closed in due form in peace and harmony.

$_,~~
Stanley M. Cazneaux

Grand Master

dh~~
Grand Secretary

326

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAN D LODG E OF CALI FORN IA

329

SPE CIAL APPENDIX

Contents

. . . . . . . . 330-343
'f- Grand lodge Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . .

Masonic Home s Audit

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344-355

Memorial Temple Audit . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .

. . . . . . .. 356"364

. . . . . . . . 365-371
Masonic Foundation Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . • . 372-375
'f- Pooled Incom e Fund . • . • . . . . . . . . . .

r Masonic Retirement Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • 376-384

330

331

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Deloitte&
Touche

JW:ANCE SHEETS

JUNE 30. f991 ANOi990
50 F<ernont Sueet
San F1anc1sco. Cal1forn1a 94105-2230
Telephone (4151393-4300

illl

TeleK 340336
Facsom1le {4151 22 7-0452

~
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California
San Francisco, California
We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Califo rnia (a nonprofit, unincorporated fraternal
organization) at June 30, 1991 and the related statement of support, revenue and expenses
and chanses in fund balance for the year then ended. These fi nancial statements a re the
responsibility o f the Grand Lodge's management. Our responsibility is to express an o pinion
on these financia l statements and supplemental schedules based on our audit. The Grand
Lodge's financial statements as of June 30, 1990 were audited by other auditors whose report
dated September IO, 1990 expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements.
We conducted our audit in accorda nce with generally accepted auditing standards. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements arc free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the finan cial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the ove rall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly , in all ma terial respects, the financial
position of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
California at June 30, 1991 and the results of its operations a nd changes in fund balance for
the year then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial
statements taken as a whole. The supplemental schedules appearing on pages 8 through 12
arc presented for the purpose of additional analysis and arc not a required part of the b asic
financial statements. The supplemental schedules arc the responsibility of the Grand
Lod,ge's management. Such 1991 supplemental schedules have been subjected to the
auditing procedures arplied in the audit of the basic fin a ncial statements and, in our opinion,
are fairly stated in al material respects when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.

September 13, 1991

$

CURRENT ASSE'T'S:
Cash

Reg,~:J~~~lons and per capi~ receivable from lodges
Accounts and advances ~cce1vable
Investment income receivable
Inventory
Prepaid expenses
Total current assets

640,630 $

lliQ

29,627

1,83),073
7,080
11, 957
188, 130
156,073

1,619,016
6,045
5,694

z.~J6,243

},7~§.262

367 ,471

640,§50

246,447
131,488
Hz.oz5
499,960
(377 ,408)

238,403
125,037
}06,669
470, 109
C34Z,333)

p.~~6,266

i~.~~~.~2~

2§,587

INVESTMENTS - At market

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:
Furniture and fixtures
Leasehold improvements
Data processing equipment
. .
Total
Less: Accumulated depreciation

TOTAL
LJABlLITIES AND FUND BAf.ANCE
CURRENT LIABILITIES:

. .. .

Accounts payable and acc~~ed hab1ht1es
.
Due to other Masonic enuues
Due to George Washington Memorial Fund
Deferred revenue
. . ..
Other
Total current hab1ht1es

FUND BALANCE:
Unrestricted
Restricted
T otal fund balance
TOTAL
Sec notes to financial statements.

103,205 s 108,049
s 671,494
59,458
8,865
137,079
7,787
928,430

9, 150
372,684

1,974,996
4ZJ,540

1,896,305

Z,l2~.Sl§

§§,2~1
1.2§J,Z~§

lJ.~~6.266

i~.~~~.~2~

1Z.Z2~

562, 139

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

333

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OE THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.
SUPPORT AND REVENUE :
SuWin:
ct lodge per capita
Bequests
Eanhquakc relief fund raising
Other
Total suppon
Revenue - investment income
Total suppon and revenue
EXPENSES:
Program services:
Standing committee expenses, net of reimbursements
~cial committee expenses, net of reimbursements
nhquakc relief program expenditures
Suppon.ing services:
Administrative and office
General
Total program and sup~rt expenses
Publication of California Freemaso n:
Publishing expenses
Deduct:
Per capita from lodges
Other
Net loss - California Freemason
Sale of inventory to constituent lodges:
Expense
Revenue
Net ~income) loss - sale of inventory
Tota expenses
Excess of suppon and revenue before depreciation
expense, pin, and change in market value
of securities, and transfer
Depreciation and amonization

.lill

lliQ

$1 ,513,874

$1,431,763

383 ,302

J5,775
1,932,951
§Z,Jll
Z.QOQ,Z§Z

93,009
J8,2l0
1,563,682
§l.ZZ~

l,§Z4,2Q§

102,500
151,500
18,868

105,383
66,572
26,057

626,018
Z~.§ZJ
l,§§J,5~2

540,297
Z5Z,§Z5
l,42Q.2§4

159,276

168,072

(150, 787~

(157 ,002~
(1Q7
l0,2§J

(7Z

8,417
(12 ,322~

~t~~:!i?
l .5Q§,

110,589
(1Q5,§7§)
4,211

Orianjz.atjon • The Grand Lod~e is an unincorporated association and is governed by a
constitution and ordinances setting fonh its jurisdiction and authority. The jurisdiction of
the Grand Lodge includes all lodges and Masons within the state of California, and
members of lodges of California, wherever residing.
The Lodge provides general and administrative services to its related entities: the
Masonic H omes of Califo rnia (Masonic Homes), the California Masonic Memorial
Temple (Temple), the California Masonic Foundation (Foundation), and the California
Masonic R etirement Plan.
Revenue Recoinitjon · Per-capita revenue from lodges is recognized as income on its
assessment date, June 30.
Inventory is stated at cost.
Investments in marketable securities are stated at fair market value and, to the extent that
management intends to hold such investments for more than one year, arc classified as
noncurrent assets. Gains or losses that result [rom market fluctuations are recognized in
the period such fluctuat ions occur. Realized sains or losses resulting from sales or
maturiticS of securities are calculated on an adjusted cost basis. Adjusted cost is the
market value of the security at the beginning of the year, or cost if purchased during the
year.
Prorcrty and e~ ui pme nt are recorded at <:ost and arc dep reciated o n the straight-line
met od over estimated useful lives of three to twenty-five yea rs.

1.5Q§,§~§

Collectibles - The Grand Lodge owns a collection of jewelry and o the r objects, most of
which have historical significance. The jewelry w llcction is used in Lodge ceremonies,
and the other items are displayed in the Temple Museum.

493,467

118,048

The Grand Lodge expenses collectibles when purchased and docs not recognize donated
collectibles as revenue when received. Accessions and deaccessions during 1991 and 1990
were not significant.

(35,074)

(46' 277)

725

Gain on sale of securities

3,139

Net change in market value of securities

(2,846)

Transfer to Foundation MacKechnie Fund

(23,406)

(5,424)

Income Taxes • The Grand Lodge has been granted tax-exempt status for both federal
income and California franchise tax purposes.
Cash and equivalents include money market fun ds which are maintained for operating
p urposes and not intended to be held as investments.
1990 Rcclassjfications - Cenain 1990 amounts in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with the 1991 presentation.

Fund balance at beginning of year

l.2§J,Z~6

1,82§.222

FUND BALANCE AT END OF YEAR

l~,32§.~~§

u .2§~.~~§

See notes to financial statements.

ORGANIZATION AND SU MMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES

334

2.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

335

The following sets forth the funded status of the plan and the prepaid pension cost at
June 30:

INVESTMENTS
lnvest~ents are presented in the aggregate at fair market value and are comprised of the
following:

.....•• 1991 .. •• . ..
£.Q.11

3.

!!Hlli

Actuarial present value of benefit obligatioN:
Vested benefits
Nonvested benefits

. ...... 1990 ..••••.
£.Q.11

!W:W.

$143,594
153,001
331.711

$157,548
151,391
331.711

Corporate stocks and bonds
U.S. government obligations
Money market accounts

$298,877 $296,03 1
71.440
71.440

Total

S370 .3 17 S367,471 .S628,306 S640.650

PENSION PLAN
The Grand Lodge, Masonic Homes and Temple sponsor a defined benefit pension plan
tha_t covers all employees.. The plan calls fo r benefits to be paid to eligible employees at
ret~rement based. pn.manly upon years of service and compensation levels near
retirement. Contnbu~1ons to the plan reflect benefits .a ttributed to employees· services to
da.te, a.s well as services expected to be provided m the future. Plan assets consist
pnmanly of comm?n and preferred stock, investment-grade corporate bonds, and
U.S. government obhgauons.

$327,173 $270,932
406,055 386,416
(356,559) (240, 938)

Pension expense

1167.928

Accumulated benefit obligation

$ 5.242.367

s 41899.908

Projected benefit obligation
Fair value of assets held in plan
Excess of plan asseu over projected benefit obligation

$(5,786 ,512) $(5,245,685)
§,5§3,858
6,880,417
l ,318,173
1, 093,905

The excess consists of the following:
Net unrecognized (gain) loss from past experience
different than assumed
Unamortized liability at transition
Unrecognized prior service cost

(1,939 ,272)
1,279 ,302
150,710

l

584.645

221,982

(2 ,391 ,254 )
1,361 , 838
163.816

l

452.573

The weighted average discount rate used to measure the projected benefit obligation is
8.0%, the rate of increase in future compensation levels is 6.0%, and the expected
long-term rate of return on assets is 8.0%. The employers use the straight-line method of
amortization for prior service cost and unrecognized gains and losses.
The prepaid pension cost recognized in the financial statements has been all~ated to the
three contributing employers. The amount recognized by the Grand Lodge m 1991 and
1990 is $55,307 and $34, 758, respectively.

l.22Q

Service cost of the current period
Interest cost on the projected benefit obligation
Actual ret1;1rn ~n assets held in. the plan
Net amoM1za.11on of prior service cost, transition liability,
and net gam

s 4,677,926

Prepaid pension cost recognized

Pension expense of the plan includes the following components:

.lli.l

$ 4,931,932
310,435

Pension expense of the Grand Lodge charged to operations in 1991 and 1990 was $2,491
and $35,344, respectively.

(ZOt\,741) (34~, 18§)
11 .~~ 4

4.

BEQUEST
Jn 1990, the Grand Lodge received $370,317 from the Estate.of Jack I. MacKechnie. The
total received, p lus accrued interest of $2,367, was included m deferred revenue pending
legal clarification regarding the use of the income from the Estate. In 1991 the matter
was resolved and $370,317 was transferred from deferred revenue to bequest revenue. In
1991, the Grand Lodge received final distributions of $7,985. To comply with ~e
provisions of Mr. MacKechnie's will, the inc-0me has been transferred to the Masonic
Foundation to be used to provide scholarships for needy high school graduates of proven
outstanding athletic ability. The bequest has earned interest of $23,406 and $2,367
throuah June 30, 1991 and 1990, respectively. The related investments and cash are
incluaed in restricted fund balanc~.

5.

INVENTORY
During 1991, the Grand Lodge changed iu accounting policy. to capital.ize .inventory held
for resale to constituent lodges. Such inventory includes written pubhcatJons and other
materials related to the practice of Masonry. Previously all mvent<;>ry was expensed as
purchased. The effect of this change result~d in a reducuo~ of supplies expense for fiscal
year 1991 of approximately $1 88,000. Pno r year fi nancial statements have not been

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

336

SCHEDULE 1

restated because the effect of the change was not deemed material to the Grand Lodge's
financial statements.
6.

TIIE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
SCHEDULE OF ANNUAL RETU RNS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JU NE 30, 1991 AND 1990

DEFERRED REVENUE
The per capita dues assessed June 30, 1991 included $137,079, SJ per member, to fund
the expenses associated with the 1992 Rose Parade. Because substantially all such
expenses will be incurred in flSC31 year 1992, the associated revenues have been recorded
as deferred revenue, to be recognized in 1992.

7.

EARTIIQUAKE RELIEF FUND RAISING
During 1990, the Grand Lodge raised $93,009 in contributions from its membership for
earthquake relief. Earthquake relief program expenditures in 1991 and 1990 totaled
$18,868 and $26,057, respectively, resulting in an unexpended fund balance of $48,084 at
June 30, 1991.

8.

RELATED PARTIES
The Grand Lodge provides general and administrative support to its related entities for
which it is reimbursed through an allocation of certain expenses. The Grand Lodge
determines the amount to be allocated on an annual basis, subject to the approval of the
Boards of T rustees of the Masonic H omes and the Temple. A portion of such expenses is
allocated to the Masonic Homes and to the Temple as follows:

ill.l

122.Q

Masonic Homes
Temple

S203,543
28.212

S234,335

Total

$231.755

$23 4,335

The Grand Lodge pays $26,500 to the Temple each year for rental of office space.
Cash receipts for all related entities arc received by the Grand Lodge and, on a m onthly
basis, arc transferred to the individual entities.

337

1990

199 1

Per Capita Total Per
and Degree 1991 Annual
Returns
Fees
IN SUPPORT OF GRAND
LODGE ACTIVITIES:
Gross per capita support from
lodges
Allocated to California
Freemason
Allocated to 1992 Rose Parade
Net per capita support from
lodges
De~rces conferred
Adjustments for previous years
Net support of Grand Lodge
activities
IN SUPPORT Of' OTHER
ORGANIZATlONS:
Gross contrib utions from
lodges
Less contributions for:
Masonic Homes of California
California Masonic Memorial
Temple
George Washington Masonic
Memorial Association
Net
NOTE:

$13.12
(1.10)

Per Capita Total Per
and Degree 1990 Annua l
Returns
Fees

$1,798,476

$11.14

$1,590, 029

(150 , 787)

(1.10)

(157 ,002)

SI O.04

1,433, 027
4,495
(5,759)

_iL_QQ)

{137 , 079 )

llL£l

1,510,610
4,271
(1,00 7)

1,431, 763

1,513,874

39.00

78 ,472

39.00

78 ,895

(25 .0 0)

(53, 650)

(25.00)

(53,275)

(9.00)

(15 ,957)

(9 . 00)

(16,470)

_MQ)

(8,865)

_MQ)

(9 , }50)

~

i 1 1 513 , 874

U:.2£

i 1 , 4Jl . 763

As of June 30, 1991, there were 139,511 Master Masons in good .standing. Of this
total, 2,432 were exempt from the per capita tax because of rcm1ss1ons of dues~
the Lodges, leaving 137,079 subject to the per capita tax as compared to 142,72
at June 30, 1990.

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

339

SCHEDULE 2

SCHEDULE 3
TiiE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

TiiE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF TiiE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
SCHEDULE OF STANDING COMMITTEE EXPENSES.
NET OF REIMBURSEMENTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30. 1991 AND 1990

STANDING COMMITTEES:
Jurisprudence
Policy and General Purposes
Finance
Trial Review
Temple Properties
Charters
Grand Lodge Weck Activities (net of receipts ofS15,696 and $17,735)
Investment
Credentials
Travel Allowance
By-Laws
Review of Proceedings
Masonic History
Public Schools (net of receipts of $11,630 and $8,780)
Masonic Education
Masonic Service Bureau
U.S. Constitution Observance
Memorial Service
TOTAL

SCHEDULEN~t 8'f~~8M~JJPJsEXPENSES,

FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30. 1991 AND 1990

s 5,431 s 5,896
7,005
2,712
3,492
1,225
1,241
35,842
3,977

2,545
383
27,659
3, 773

2, 159
5,006
50

4,515
3,444
3, 177

2,315
873
28,419
4,475
3,241
112
679
341
(18)

31,681
4,363
7,523
4,347

S!0?,500 SlOS,383

SPECIAL COMMITTEES:
Sojourners
Recognitio n of Foreign Grand Lodges
Public Information
Youth Orders
Commercialism
Insurance
Retirement (net of reimbursement of S1, 921 and $2,653)
Columbia Temple (net of rental income of $300 and S115)
Masonic Widows Program
Old Masonic Hall Committee - Los Angeles
(net of rental inco me of S300 and S725)
Quuman Masonic Memorial Temple
(net of rental income of S50 and S75)
Lodge Resources and Development
Film Project Committee
Layman's Night
Masonic Leadership
Homes Endowment Board (net of reimbursement
ofS115,625 and $64,831)
Warden's Retreat (net of receipts of $66,044 and $86,484)
Certificates and Awards
Grand Lodge Structure
Long Ran$e Planning Committee
Code Revision Committee
Younger Members
Fees and dues structure
Historic sights and buildings
Council of California Masonic Leaders
Donations to nonprofits
Prince Hall
Candidate education
TOTAL

lill

illQ

s 3,460 s
389
4,637
25,888
502
3,541
(974)
2,479
4,062

562

6,448
19,847
321
3,385
9,907
3,303

3,885

875

279
6,049
680
3,913
6,101

(75)
4,401
11,005
4,552
10,693

40,016

188
(35,225)

72

7,635
19,607
6,126
266
5,285
976
5,050
l, 173

42
10,561
10, 153
5,354
275

~Ql

1m 1 500 ~

340

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

341

SCHEDULE 5

SCHEDULE 4

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
SCHEDULE OF GENERAL EXPENSES
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30. 1991 AND 1990

im

!lil.

lm

Salaries and waJ.es
5fffcloyee bene its
ce supplies
Repairs and maintenance
Leased equipment rental cost
Posta~e and mail delivery
Telep one
Dues and subscriptions
Property taxes
aeaning service
Rent expense
Legal and accounting
Tem~rary labor
Outside printing and duplicating
Miscellaneous general office

$321,248 $282,138
91,460
102,604
21 ,069
32 , 742
12,202
15,279
1, 552
15,533
34,642
47,955
13,570
13,248
12, 769
6,734
2,674
3,451
8,479
6,829
26,500
26,500
10 ,553
7,213
5,776
6,833
3,916
7,652
12' 197
lZ.m

TOTAL

1626.018 $540.033

1990

Annual communication
Annual communication - inspectors
Representatives' mileage
Appointed officers' travel
Grand Lodge officers' travel
Grand Master's travel, secretarial, etc.
Grand Master's relief
Cornerstone ceremonies
Conferences - out of state
Secretaries' seminars
Printing
Gifts - visitors
Veterans' buttons
Ritual committee and inspectors' conference and travel expense
Past Grand Masters' meetings
Insurance:
Workers' compensation - Lodges
Public liability andeXlended cove rage for Lodges
Groul:!;avel accidental insurance
ge Regalia
Grand
Computer software and training
Bank charges

Sl02,397 SlOl ,023
39, 101
40, 647
27,762
26,556
132,896 118,814
53,302
68,294
24 , 126
29,394
2,000
1,000
9,906
6,018
21,525
29,369
8,542
4,049
71,473
63,947
20,083
24,766
20,008
12,932
48, 194
45,427
2,928
2,847
17,684
129,078
5,805
5,561
35,418
588

60,277
117,806
5,805
264

TOTAL

pa4 1 673

ps2 1939

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

342

EXHIBIT 2

EXHIBIT 1
THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
GRAPH OF EXPENSES
JUNE 30, 1982 TO 1991

GRAPH OF MEMBERSHIP
JUNE 30, 1982 TO 1991

Thousands

Thousands
200 r--~~~~~~~~~~~~~--

1,000 r--- - - - - - - - -- - - - -

800 ·- -· -... .. -. - - -. -.. .. · -· .. .. .... .. - -.. . -. . .. .

180
160 . - - -. - -. . -. . . - . --. -. . . . .. . - -.

140
200 ·-·-- -·- -- · ··- - · · ···· - - ---· - - -··· · - - -

120

1982

1984

I-

1986

1988

MEMBERSHIP

I

1990

1982

-

1984

1986

1988

1990

PROGRAM SERVICE + ADMINISTRATIVE * GENERAL

344

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Deloitte&
Touche

:ol
.:~

50 Fremont Stree t

Tel<» 340336

San Franc•sco. Ca11fom1 a 94105-2230

Facsimil<! (415) 22 7-045 2

Telephone 141 5) 393-4 300

"'~ "'~

N
.,..

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

N
N

~
N

.."'"'

Board of Trustees
Masonic Homes of California
San Francisco, California
We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of the Masonic Homes of California (a
California nonprofit corporation) at June 30, 1991 and the related statement of support,
revenue and expenses and changes in fund balances for the year then ended. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Masonic Homes' management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. The Maso nic
Homes' financial statements and supplemental schedules as of June 30, 1990were audited by
other auditors whose report dated September 13, 1990 eX'pressed an unqualified opinion on
those statements, totals of which arc included for comparative purposes only.
We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements arc free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of the Masonic Homes of Ca1ifornia at June 30, 1991 and the results of its
operations and changes in fund balances for the year then ended in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic financial
statements taken as a whole. The supplemental schedules appearing on pages 8 throug.h 10
are pre.sented for the purpose of add1uonal analysis and are not a required part of the basic
financial statements. The supplemental schedules are the responsibility of the Masonic
Homes' management. Such 1991 supplemental schedules have been subjected to the
auditing procedures af plied in the audit of the basic financial statements and in our opinion,
are fairly stated in al material respects when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole.

September 13, 1991

........

11~1
......
"'"'

..."'.,..
§_ ~ ~
§_ ~ ~

...

-

..._

;!;

N

NIA
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

346

1.

_..,_

........ .,,
!
8~
~-ii
:;:~§

..... o

-

-"'

"""~

""!~­

~"'

_,..,,...,,

.......

~~-:.
...
.........

~"'"'

..
..........
- ..... o
~

.... . . .

_,.,,..,

~II>·,;

"':. "'!,10

~

....

347

IFO RNI A
MA SON IC HO ME S OF CALTEM ENT S
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STA
OUN TING
MA RY OF SIG NIF ICA NT ACC
ORG ANI ZAT ION AND SUM
POLICIES
es) is a nonprofit C.alifornia
es of C.alifornia (Masonic Hom, California and a home for
Or:p njza tjon - Masonic Hom
Oty
on
Uni
at
ts
e for adul
d by The Gra nd Lodge
Cor pora tion administcrin~ a hom
ifomia. The hom es arc supp orte
ge) and mem bers of
Lod
nd
adults and children at Covma, C.al
(Gra
ia
iforn
C.al
of
of the Stat e
of Free and Acc epte d Masons
ia.
the Masonic, Fraternity in C.aliforn
restrictions placed on the use
observance of limitations and
of Masonic Homes arc
Fyn d Acc oun ting · To insu reMas
unts
acco
the
onic Homes,
.
ng
of resources available to
unti
acco
the principles of fund
maintained in accordance with
rted in four self-balancing
balances of the Ho mes arc repo
The assets, liabilities and fund
funds as follows:
atio ns of the homes at
arc available to sup port the oper
• Gener~ Fun d • Resources ifornia.
Union ity and Covina, C.al
ge provide that no
· Ordinances of the Gra nd Lod
Perm anen t End owm ent Fund
d shall be expended for any
Fun
ent
owm
End
t
anen
Perm
portion of the principal of the principal shall be used only for the mainten ance and
purpose and inco me from the
es.
general ope ratio n of Mas onic Hom
fund provides for the
Home. Unio n City Fund - This
• Hugo M. Lorb er Masonic bett erm ent of the hom e at Union City, C.alifornia .
ope ratio n, preservation and
icted purposes.
de bequ ests mad e for various restr
• Restricted Trust Fun ds inclu
e and, to the exte nt that
rities arc stated at fair mar ket valu
year , are classified as
one
Inve stme nts in mar keta ble secu
than
e
mor
for
investme.nts
man agem ent intends to hold suchs that result fro m market fluctuations are recognized in
lting from sales or
non curr ent assets. Gains or losse
r. Realized (lains o r losses resuAdjusted cost is the
s.
basi
the period such fluctuations occu
cost
sted
ulat ed on an adju
maturities of secu rities are calcthe beginning of the year, or the cost if purc hase d during
mar ket value of the security at
the year.
reci ated on the straight-line
arc carried at cost and are dep
PrQ~rty and egujffment
:
Jives
ated
met ()do ver the foiowing estim
3-50 year s
ts
3-25 year s
men
rove
imp
and
s
ding
Buil
5-20years
Equ ipm ent
2-7 years
Furruture and fixtures
Vehicles
ed as revenue when
tions and memorials arc recogniz
future events and are
of
ce
Revenu e Recognition - Contribu
rren
occu
the
on
nt
inge
ly cont
received. Bequests are gen eralived . Real and pers onal prop erty assigned to Masonic
reco rded as income when recegnized as revenue when received by Mas onic Hom es.
Hom es by residents arc reco are assigned to Masonic Homes arc recognized when
Pensions of residents which
received.

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Other assets consist of life insurance policies and mineral rights assigntd or bequeathed
to the Masonic Homes.
Vacant lots and mineral rights arc recorded at the nominal value of St each for
accountability. Payments by the Masonic Homes or obligations of the assignors secured
by these assets arc added to the nominal value.
Life insurance policies arc recorded at their actuarially determined present values.
Rcstdqed cash includes residents' accounts at Union City and Covina, which are
comprised of unexpended portions of monthly allowances made to residents.

4.

349

PENSION Pl.AN
Masonic Homes, Grand Lodge and the California Masonic Memorial Temple (Temple)
sponsor a defined benefit pc:nsion plan that co".ers all employee~. 'rytc plan calls for
benefits to be paid to eligible employees at retirement ba~ed _pnmanly upon years of
service and compensation levels, near. retirement. Contnbuuons _to the plan reflect
benefits attributed to employees scrvtces to date, as well as scrvtccs expected to be
provided in the future. Plan assets consist primarily of common and preferred stock,
investment-grade corporate bonds, and U.S. government obhgauons.
Pension expense of the plan includes the following components:

l2il

illQ

Service cost of the current period
Interest cost on the projected
benefit obligation
Actual return on assets held in the plan
Net amortization of prior service cost,
transition liability, and net gain

$327,173

$270,932

Pension expense

Sl67,9?8

1990 Rcclaaifications - Cenain 1990 amounts in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with the 1991 presentation.

2.

INVESTMENTS
Investments arc presented in the a~cgatc at fair market value and consist of common
stocks, co:;ro:ratc and government de t obligations and money market funds. Investments
by fund fol ow:
••••••••.• • 1991 •••••• •• •. •

W1

.!!ir.ktl

. •......••. 1990 .•.. . ..... •

W1

Market

General Fund
Sl37 , 474,087
Permanent Endowment
Fund
92,539,043
Hugo M. Lorber Fund
15,392,977
Restricted Trust
2.572.399

Sl47 ,478,023
93,518,019
15,583,322
2.692.869

87,574,427
13,886,563
2.691.449

90,430,392
13,907,427
2.800.723

Total

$259.272.233

$241.189.595

S251. 775 .9!!2

$247.978.506

$137,03 7, 156 $144,637,440

Investments by type
follow:
Corporate stocks
and bonds
U.S. fiovcrnmcnt
ob igations
Money market
accounts
Total
3.

$128,325,368

$139,670, 728

$104,413,065

$115,442,391

105,023,725

104,972,092

83,954,700

83,511,761

J4,§Z~,4lJ

14,§Z~,4n

~Z.8Z1.~JQ

5Z,8Zl.~3o

$247 .978.506

1?59.272.233

$241.189 595

S251. 775. 982

I

NOTES RECEIVABLE
Notes.receivable represent notes from 5alcs of real estate assigned to the Masonic Homes
by rc11dcnts of the Union City home and 5ales of real estate received BJ gifts or bequests.
These notes arc secured by deeds or trust.

406,055
386,416
(356,559) (240,938)
(208,741) (345,186)

s 71. 224

The following sets forth the funded status of the plan and the prepaid pension cost at
June30:

Actuarial present value of benefit obligations:
Vested benefits
Nonvested benefits

s 4,931,932 s 4,677,926
310,435

221,982

Accumulated benefit obligation

$ 5,242.367

s 4.899.908

Projected benefit obligation
Fair value of assets held m plan
Excc.ss of plan assets over projected
benefit obligation

$(5,786,512) S(5,245,685)
6.880.417
6.5§3.858
1,093. 905

1,318,173

The excess consists of the following:
Net unrecognized (gain) loss from
past experience different tha_n assumed
Unamortized liability at transition
Unrecognized prior service cost

(1,939,272)
1,279,302
150.710

(2,391,254)
l ,361,838
Hi),816

Prepaid pensio n cost recognized

1

584 ,645

1

4~~.~7~

The weighted average discount rate used to m~asure the projected benefit obligation ~
8.0%, the rate of increase in future compensation levels is 6.0%, and. the ~ctcd longf
term rate of return on assets is 8.0%. The cmployc~s use the stra1ght-hnc method o
amortization for prior service cost and unrecognized gains and losses.

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The prepaid pension cost recognized
in the financial state ments has been
three contnbuting employers, the amou
allocated to the
1990 was $496,948 and $403,423, respe nt recognized by Maso nic Hom es in 1991 and
ctively.

SCH EDU LE 1
MaS ONI

C HOM ES OF CAL IFOR NIA
ALANCESHEETS
. RF.STRICTEo TRUST FUNDS

Pension expense of Masonic Homes
charged to its o perations in 1991
$157,360 and Sl 1,063.
and 1990 was

S.

HOME., UNI ON CITY FUN D
From 1982 through 1991 the Masonic
Esta te of Hugo M. Lorb er in the amoHom es of California received bequests from the
Test amen t provided that the bequ est unt of Sll,9 84,8 39. Mr. Lorb er's Last Will and
be used at the home for the elderly
California.
in Union City,

CHA NGE IN ACC OUNTING POL

ICY

Masonic Ho mes changed its accountin
g policy effective July 1, 1989 to recog
real estat e dona ted to the organizat
nize certain
ion
estat e was valued at a nominal Sl value at current fair market value. Previousl y all real
.
The cumulative effect of the change
resulted in an increase to July I, 1989in accounting policy for periods prior to July 1, 1989
fund balan ce of Sl,662, 721. The
had the new method been applied
retroactively to earn ings for the yearprof orm a effect,
1989, cannot be deter mine d.
ende d June 30,
7.

-a _

JUN E 30. WA ND 1990

HUGO M. LOR BER MASONIC

The Board o f Trus tees established the
to account for the bequ est. The Boar Hugo M. Lorb er Masonic Home, Union City Fund
additions and repla ceme nts of propertyd resolved that the Fund repre sente d a source for
should be used for operating, rehab in Union City and that all incom e from the Fund
ilitating, preserving and enhancing
d eeme d necessary.
the fa cility, as
6.

351

RE LAT ED PAR TY TRANSACTIO

NS
The Gran d Lodge provides general
which it is reimbursed through an and administrative supp ort to Masonic Hom es for
1991 and 1990 was $203 ,543 and allocation of certa in expenses. The allocation during
$234
provides similar administrative servi ces ,335, respectively. In addition, Masonic Homes
value of these services during 1991 and to the Masonic Homes Pooled Incom e Fund . The
1990 was $50,761 and $46,431 , respe
ctively.
Cash receipts for Masonic Hom es are
recei
ved
by
the
Gran
d
Lodge and, on a monthly
basis, arc trans ferre d to Masonic Hom
es.

~
:
Note s and othe r rece1' bl

$

va es
Investments - at mark et

60, 505 $ (3,32 0)
160,540
31,856
2,692.862 2,800.723

TOT AL

sz. 785.230 n.2 s1.243

1JABILITIES AND FUN D BAI..ANC
ES:
Accounts payable
Rem aind er interests payable
Tota l

fUNP BAI,ANCES:

$

s

70,ZZS

18,632
!:i2.:i!!2
47§.ZH

15,963

~4,Z6Z

h. F d
Geor ge F . and Laur a E. Brigh am Scho
Mildred R. Brown and Leroy<?· Brow la~ ip u~ Fund
n
emo na
Wilson J. Oarl te and t-1arg uent e Graf
feo Clark
Memorial Scholarship Fund
.
F. D. Hardy Memorial fo r l:ligh er Prac .
tical Educ auon
August F. Heu er Scnolarsh_ip Fund
Charlc.s L Jacquelin Annuity Trus t Fund
Anto n Jens en Fund
Roy G. Jone s Trust Fund
Oyd c and Ethe l Moreland Trus t Fund
s
Sant a Fe Masonic Oub Fund
.
d
Walt er W. and Mau de S. Schultz Scho
larship Fun
Clifton S. Slonaker Annuity Trus t Fund
Frances Snyder Spec kma n Fund
Stud ent Aid Fund
.
Orville c. Sweeney Mcmonal
Fund
Tota l restricted trust fund balances

89,065
371,825

84,960
337,083

121,242
718, 118
203,321
162,559
9,059
9,085
2,770
9,442
102 ,086
33,254
671,167
149,738
6Z.Z74
z,715,005

113,158
662 ,420
164,049
155,848
8,718
10, 192

2,472,ZZ2

TOT AL

u.1~5.~~2

u.2~1 .24~

9,391
92,351
32,935
612,128
134 ,998
~l.42!!

352

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

N

or
"!.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3

«>-N

_..,

- '°,;
~

353

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
SCHEDULES OF EXPENSES GENERAL FUND
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30. 1991 AND 1990

;::~

I

."'...

... .,..

:2l

;:~
_r _,o

..."' "'
~

.-

......
N

"'

~

"'

.. c

~

.....

-.l

.•."'

;

N

0

..

"c
..,"

~~

!_j
---

..•

~~

~­
c
• "
c

:.

~~

-~
·-i,,
.. .,

.- -

-,, C

-

0

...,
•
"'

L

-

c

"'
~

~

OD
N

i

I~

Union City Home:
Nursing services
Plant operations and maintenance
Housekeeping
Laundry and linen
Dietary
Residential services
Personal care
Administration
Leases and rentals
Property taxes
Property insurance
Depreciation
Clinic services
Total Union City Home

3,995,663
2,046,609
721, 909
269,019
I, 926 ,784
1,049,600
644,016
1, 211, 747
929
1,292
216,910
1,381,272
1. 556. 378
15.022.350

3, 987 ,608
1, 680. 21 2
761,41 7
228,679
1,756,074
982,065
571,429
l,088,889
7,2 11
69,632
184,563
1,176 ,980
l.01 7,321
13.514.280

Covina Horne:
Nursing services
Plant o perations and maintenance
Housekeeping
•
Laundry and linen
Dietary
Residential services
Administration
Pro perty taxes
Property insurance
Depre.c1ation
Total Covina Home

182, 240
562,664
40,677
3,604
322 ,616
393,069
421,464
1,055
78,029
418.394
2.444,412

71, 716
560,874
24,621
5,012
256,586
396,754
263,680
3,287
64, 111
325.732
l.972.373

991,937
30,761
1,022,537
42. 750
65,704
117 ,092
2,911
21.266
2.294,958

567,156
46,4 31
880,754
59, 770
10 , 750
45,783
64,83 1
2,608
16,810
1.694.693

S19. 761. 720

Sl7 1 161.546

Administrative and General Expenses:
San Francisco Office
Pooled Income Fund administrative expense
Investment, legal and audit
Trustee expenses
Annuities
Preadmission expense
Endowment Board expense
Annual trip, Union City
Depreciation
Total administrative and general expense
TOTAL

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

355

EXHIBIT 1

EXHIBIT 2

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

GRAPH OF SOURCES OF SUPPORT AND REVENUE
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1982 TO 1991

GRAPH OF EXPENSES
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1982 TO 1991

Million s
40 .--~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~----,

Million s
25.---~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~-,

20 ······· ·· ·· ···--·· ······· ····· .. · ······· ·· ·-

30 . . ... .. .. .... ...... . .. . . . .. ... ... .

15 ...... -. . ..... - ... .

20
10 .... - - ....
10

5

0
1982

1984

•

Support

1986

1988

1990

0 Interest & Dividend 0 Pen11iona • Other

1982

1984

!

1986

1988

•uN10N CITY Ocov1NA OoTHER

1990

l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

358

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
NOTES IO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

CALIFORNIA MASONIC ME MORIAL TEMPLE
STATEMENTS OF SUPPORT. R EVENUE.
EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN FUNDSAI..ANCES
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE 30. 1991 AND 1990
'

TCllPLE
BUllOlllGS ...
J.llQ
ill.l

... I

SUPPORT AND REVENUE:
Support . initiation fees
Revenue:
Rent of auditorium and other
charges to public
Rent of garage
Rentofs~to

gc
Grand
Rent of o ther real estate
Other
Total revenue
To tal support and revenue

••

I.. .

illQ

26 , 500

26 ,soo

!0,384
945 ,!!87
961 , 862

j,758,93!!
1,775 ,408

248 , 660
248 , 660

239 ,099
239,099

403.159
242 ,516
72,990
56 ,900
113,770
56, 133
220,508
6,032

890 , 361
196 , 31S
146 . 578
73 , 925
106,175
49, 174
225,8Sl
6, 73S

14,556
27 , 540
96,058
17 ,252
9,130
20,525

11,769
3S. 796
51,649
14, 373
16 ,148
24,496

28, 9S8
B,150
6,7!!!!
l, 746 ,244

EXCESS (DEFICIENCY) O F
SUPPORT AND REVENUE
BEFORE OTiiER INCOME
(EXPENSE)

(280 ,432)

29 ,164

ill.l
15,975 $

1,453,528
278,910

27. 309
8 ,143
U , 517
1.242.Z94

Su notes to financial statements.

ill.l

631,4'9
277 ,SSC

7,234

FUND BALANCES AT END OF
YEAR

REiil AL
PROPERTIES .... .. ....... TOTAL ....... ..

16,470

15 , 317

Excess of sup port and revenue
before net change in market
value of securities and gain
on sales of securities
Net change in market value or
securities
Gain on sales of securities
Fund t>.alanccs at beginning o r year

•••

15,975

EXPENSES:
Production expense
Salaries and payroll expense
Utilities and service
Maintenance
Insurance
Property iaxes
Depreciation
Legal and accounting
O ffice supplies, printing
and postage
Management and rental recs
Library expense
Federal excise tax
Miscellaneous
Total expenses

OTiiER INCOME •
Investment income

I

$248,660 $239 ,099

16,466

14,716

3,836
3,832
~ ~
JlLl.Q!! ..JlM§l

~.

Ul.w

359

1ll2
16,470

1.

ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING

POLICIES
Oraanjzatjon - The California Masonic Memorial Temple ( the Temple) is a nonprofit
o rganization. The Temple owns and operates various rental properties. Income from the
rental of the Temple, less cxp:nscs, is to be transferred to the Endowment Fund of
Masonic Homes of California ( Masonic Homes).

631,449
277 , 5S4

l ,453,S28
278 ,910

26,500
248,660
l0 ,384
j , 194 ,54 7
1.210,522

26,500
239 ,099
1,92§,0F
2 ,01•. S07

403, 159
257 ,072
100,530
152,958
131,022
65 ,263
241,033
6, 032

890,361
208,084
182,374
125,574
120, S48
65 ,322
2S0,347
6,735

15,317
16 ,466
27 ,309
11 , 97 5
2S 366
l,4S3 , S02

7 ,234
14 ,716
29. 958
11,986
IZ,086
L9Z4,3?S

{242 ,980)

90, 182

Revenue recoanitio n - Initiation fees arc recorded as revenue in the period fees arc due.
Renta l revenue is recognized at the time the physical facilit ies are used.

291,455

248, 669

1990 reclassifications . Certain 1990 amounts in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with the 1991 presentation.

48,475

338 , 851

56. 546
1,451
7 I 734, 959

(2 ,376)
2 ,718
7 ,395,766

v .841 ,431 p,734,9S9

Invc51mcnts in marketable securities arc stated at fair market values and to the extent
that the management intends to hold such investments for more than one year, arc
classified as noncurrcnt assets. Gains or losses that result fro m market fluctuations arc
recognized in the period such fluctuations occur. Realized gains or losses resulting from
sale, or maturities of securities arc calculated based on an adjusted cost basis. Adjusted
cost is the market value of the security at the beginning of I.he year, or cos1 if purchased
during the year.

Prorcrt,y and cgujff mcnt arc carried at cost and are depreciated on the straight-line
met od over the fo lowing estimated lives:
Buildings and improvements
l::quipmcnt
Furniture and fixt ures

5-50 years
5-lOycars
3-20 years

Co!!cctjon of books - The Temple library contains a book collection of approximately
12,500 volumes. The collection includes 642 works o n Masonic and philosophic topics. In
1984, the collection was appraised at a value of approximately $200,000. The Temple
expenses books when purchased and does not recognize donated books as revenue.
Accessions and dcacccssions of books during 1991 and 1990 were not significant.
The cost of operating the library during 1991 and 1990, including the salary of the library
manager, was $27,309 and $28,958, respectively.

360

2.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTM ENTS
Investmen ts arc presented in thc aggregate at fair
following:
· market value and arc comprised

361

The following sets forth the funded status of the plan and the prepaid
pension cost at
June 30:

of the

lliQ

1W.
••••••••• 1991 .•• • •••••

W1
Corporat e bonds

U.S. Governm ent obligations

3.

Muket

1llll

• • • •.••• • 1990 ••..•.•••

lli1

Market

w.n

s 193,406 s io2,344 s 193,406 s 201,095

Money market accounts

3,417,690
190,557

Total

$).801.653 S3.87?.704 S).617 .?09 S3.635.7!6

3,479,803
190.557

?,664,019
759.784

?,674,837
759.784

PENSION Pl.AN

~=ri?utions th~
bc~efits~tt:i~~te~~l:~~~~~cs!C:C~c~:~~ d~~~r~;~:j
;~f~rrC:dst~k, ~~v~t~~:~~da~~ t~rpofut:;:t~ t::!~~s~ncdtsUcoSnsgisotvpcrimarilty obfl~~m.mon
1W.

Pension expense

$167.928

i 5 1 21~ 1 367 i 4.899.908

Projected benefit obligation
Fair value of assets held in plan
Excess of plan assets over projected
benefit obligation

$(5, 786,512) $(5,245,685)
6.563.858
6.880.417

i

1,093,905

1,318, l 73

(1,939,272)
1,279,302
lSQ,710

(2 ,391,254)
1,361,838

564.645

l~J.81§

i

452 .573

The weighted average discount rate used to measure the projected benefit
obligation is
8.0%, the rate of increase in future compensa tion levels is 6.0%, and the expected
longtenn rate of return on assets is 8.0%. The employer s use the. straight-li
ne method of
amortizatiol) for prior service cost and unrecognized gains and losses.
The prepaid pension cost recognized in the financial statement s has been allocated
to the
thrc.c contributi ng employers. The amount recognized by the Temple in 1991
and 1990
was S15,844an dS14,392 , respectively.
Pension expense of the Temple charged to operations in 1991 and 1990 was
$8,077 and
S24,817, respectively.

(?08,741) {345.186)

s 71,??1

Accumula ted benefit obligation

Prepaid pension cost recognize d

ill.Q

$327,173 $270,93?
406,055 386,416
(356,559) (240,938)

,932 s 4,677,926
s 4,931
310.435
221. 98?

The excess consists of the foll owing:
Net unrecogn ized (~ain) loss from
past experienc e different than assumed
Unamortized liability at transition
Unrecogn ized prior service cost

~~a~~TI:· ;;1:n~r.::'d LI;><!~ of Free and Accepted Masons of the State
of California
all cmploycf s. The pla~~~·I~ f~rmi:n~'fi~~~r~ dpr:;~~~ ~n~~t pe.nsion plan
tha~ covers
based primarily upon cars of scrvi
1
c •8! e emp oyccs at rcttremcn t
to
plai'reflc ct
and
,
. .
rnmcn o 1gattons.
Pension expense of the plan includes the following compone nts:

Service cost of the current period
Interest cost on the projected benefit obligation
Actual ret1:1rn ~n assc~ held in the plan
Net amort1zatton of prmr scrvic.c cost
transition liability, and net gain
'

Actuarial present value of benefit obligations:
Vested benefits
Nonvcstc d benefits

4.

DESIGN ATED RESERV E FOR REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS
In 1990, the Board of Trustees increased the fund balance designated for future

building repairs and improvem ents from S250,CXXJ to Sl,CXXJ,noo.
Temple made no contributi ons to Masonic Homes in 1991 and 1990.

5.

major
Accordingly, the

OPERATING LEASES
The Temple is the lessor of garage premises under an operating lease expiring
March 31,
1993. Under the terms of the lease, the Temple receives minimum monthly
rent of
$14,583. In addition to the minimum monthly rent, the Temple receives a
15% of the gross receipts each calendar month resulting from the parking sum equal to
or garaging of
automobiles. Total rents received in 1991 were $277,554, of which S102,554
were
percentag e rentals on gross revenues. Total rents received in 1990 were
$278,910 of
which $103,910 were percentag e rents on gross revenues.

362

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT 1

Minimum future rentals to be received on the noncancelable
leases for each of the next
two years and in the aggregate are:
Year ending June 30:

1992

Total minimum future rentals

6.

$306.250

FEDERAL EXCISE TAXES
ln accordance with applicable tax provisions, the Temple
fo undation and is subject to an excise tax on net investment is classified as a private
income, including realized
gains. Accordingly, federal excise taxes have been recognized
in amount s of S 11,975 and
SI 1,986 during 1991 and 1990, respectively.
In addition, the tax provisions require that certain minimu
distributions be made in accordance with a specified formula m exempt program service
.
the Temple had exceede d the required minimum distributions. At June 30, 1991 and 1990,

7.

GRAPH OF SUPPORT AND RENTAL REVENUE
JUNE 30, 1982 TO 1991

•

Thousands

1, 2 0 0 . . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1
1,000

REIAT ED PARTIES
The Grand Lodge provides general and adminis trative support
to the Temple for which it
is reimbursed through an allocation of certain expenses.
The allocation for the year
ended June 30, 1991 was $28,212.
The Temple provides office space to the Grand Lodge at $26,500

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

$175,000
131 .250

1993

363

800

per year.

Cash receipts for the Temple arc received by the Grand Lodge
and, on a monthly basis,
are transferred to the Temple .

600

1982

1984

1986

• Auo1r o R1uM 0LODG E 0APARTMENT •GAR AGE

OcoN TR1eur10NS

.
t of production expenH .
Auditori um revenue ••
ahown ne

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

364

CALIF ORNIA MASO NIC FOUND ATION AUDIT

EXHIBIT 2

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

Oeloitte&
Touche

GRAPH OF TOTAL EXPENSES
JUNE 30, 1982 TO 1991

50 f remont Street
San Francosco. Ca~tornia 94 \05-2230
Telepnone 14 15 ) 393-4300

Telex 340336
Facsomole (4151 227-0452

INJ)EPENPENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Thousands

1,200 i--- - - - - - - - - - - - - Board of T rustees
California Masonic Foundatio n
San Francisco, California
Foundatio n (a
We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of the California Masonic
t of support,
statemen
related
the
and
1991,
30,
June
at
on)
corporati
nonprofit
California
These financial
ended.
then
year
the
for
balances
fund
in
changes
and
expenses
and
revenue
responsib ility is to
statement s arc the responsibility of the Foundatio n's management. Our The Foundatio n's
audit.
our
on
based
s
statement
cial
finan
these
n
o
pinion
o
express an
repon dated
financial state ments as of June 30, 1990 were audited by other auditors whose
of which
totals
s,
statement
those
on
opinion
d
unqualifie
an
expressed
1990
Septembe r 13,
arc included for comparat ive purposes only.

1,000
800 · · ··· · -· · ·--···- ·

standards. Those
We conducted o ur audit in accordanc e with generally accepted auditing assurance about
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain re asonable
An a udit includes
whether the financial statement s arc free of material misstatem ent.
s in the financial
examining, o n a test basis, evidence supportin g the amounts and disclosure and significan t
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accountin g principles used
statement
estimates made by managem ent, as well as evaluatin g the overa ll financial
o pinion.
presentat ion. We believe that our audit provides a reasonabl e basis fo r o ur

600

the financial
In our opinion, such financial statement s present fairly, in all material respects,
the results of its
position of the California Masonic Foundatio n at June 30, 1991 and
y with generally
operations and changes in fund balances for the year then ended in conformit
accepted accountin g principles.

Septembe r 13, 1991

0
1982

1984

1986

1988

1990

•PAYRO LL DRENTA L DuT1uT 1Es •oTHER DoEPRE CIATION
The expensea shown exclude productio n expenses .

~

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
BALANCE SHEET, JUNE 30, 1991
(WITH COMPARATIVE TOTALS FOR 1990)

B!!!2

A081NSOll
FUND

4,798

s 1,914

AllARANTH

GENERAL
FUND

DRUG
EOOCATIDtt

B!!!2

LISTER
FUND

STARR
KING
FUND

s

s

MCKECHNIE
FUND

...•.. •• TOTAL . .......

COALINGA

illQ

ill!

fl1!!Q

~
~h

lnvestmenl proceeds receivable
Aa:rued interest receivable
Due from other Masonic entities
Advances
Touil current asscis

s

s

60

s

26, 945

INVESTMENTS

27 ,005

----..m 1:rn

1.162.597

.M....ill

240,056

Sl.189,602

TOTAL

158.642

J244.854

s

3,974

t

93

39
ll, 126

t

s

60
37 ,993
22,796

230

3,800
25,000
35,090
22,123

11,670
___i,lQQ
15,870

~

--9-3

1T;l65

--no

65,049

86,013

321.295

188.760

36 .078

_i...ill.

100.768

2.115.637

1.846,774

J337, 165

1192,734

~

tzo.520

"ti
:JJ

4,~QQ

SI00,998

g
m
m

0

SI. 932 .787

12 .180.686

z

C>

en

LlABILmES AND
B.!~12 lU11.d.!:!CES
CURRENT LIABILmES:
Program granis payable
Due 10 Olhcr Masonic entities
lnterfund aa:ounlS
Aa:ounts payable
Payable for securities purchased
Toul currcnl liabilities

,,0
s

Sl04,499

s 1,831 s

503

5,572
1,345

--{20.mJ

1.631

503

111,416

~

14,984
J1,lQ!

1,210,379

243,023
243,023

-1§...ill
~

225,749
225,749

...1ZL..lli
...1ZL..lli

20. 967
20, 967

Sl.189,602

$244,854

S58.64i

$337 .165

Sl92,734

lli.Jll

FUND BALANCES:
Unrcstrieled
Restricted
Total rund balanoes

1,210,379

TOTAL

s 105,499 s
1,157

750
17 ,249

~

1,890
64,882
173,428

2,152
25.000
45.151

120,520
20,520

S0.802
~

1,210,379
796,879
~.007,258

1,176,209.
711,427
1,887,636

120,520

SI00,998

si~illQ~~~

lLlR.787

s 1,000

1,157
(22,479)
545

14,055

s

s

220

-f

::c
m

298
0,898

Sec notes 10 financial sut~.menlS.

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
STATEMENT OF SUPPORT, REVENUE AND EXPENSES
AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1991
(WITH COMPARATIVE TOTALS FOR 1990)

fl1!!Q

AllARANTH
FUND

12,496

s

GENERAL

ROBINSON
FUND

DRUG
EDUCATION
FUND I

LISTER
FUND

SUPPORT AND REVENUE:
Su~n :

n1ribu1ions
tournament
Contributions.
Golf 1ournamen
Other
Toul suppon
Revenue . m1cres1
Total support and revenue

t'lf

EXPENSES:
Pr~m Krvices:
uca1ional granlS
Goll 1oumamen1
Total program services
sug~ning services:
arr expenses
Audit
Ouisidc prin1ing and supplies
Trus1oc travel
Federal acisc I l l
Miscella ncous
Total supponing services
Toul expenses

s

12,496
94,373

106,869
82,000

16,250

3,000

~

223,499

82,00ll

=:Em

J,000

~

5,122
2,959
2 ,344
5. 923
2, 174
66

1,054
620
488
1,224

248
143
114
285

3,476
573
58,763
1,252
392

446

104

18,588
100,588

zi:U!

~

6,281

(707)

359

24,051

z,sso

860

3,838

1,991

1,176,209

239, 189

3,894

~

COALINGA

........ TOTAL ••••••••

ill!

fl!!!!!

ll2Q

s 442,523
s 228,807
55 ,000
179,938

m.m
139,833

488,553

582 ,356

250

11,000

347, 749

92,750

11,750

~

11,00ll

352:m

92,750

750
430
356

82
48
38
95
35

10,825
4 '773
62 , 173
9,744
3, SI I
8,007

9,070
4,167
166,31 7
14, 135
3, 107
1.273

--r,ml

---=---==
iMH 1-HH ~ Lltfil --HH
--'-'=

MCKECHNIE
FUND

17. 767
7 ,041

~

--m

E!!!l!!

s 4 ,660

$210,901
55,000
17 ,767

750

STARR
KING

~

11,750

871

319

308,615

s~i·m

~

~

93
70
94
41

--- ---m
-#.IB ~~
1i·m ---m
JI ,000
:::::m
~

m:m

198:069
290 819

802

33,396

291,537

3D ,000

(6, 927)

99 033

&c:ess (deficiency) of suppon and

revenue bclore net chi~ in market
value or investments an gain on
ulc of investmenu

N~t tl\angc in market value of

1nvcstmenis
Gain on sale or imiesunenis
Fund balances at beginning or yar

f'UND BAU.NCES AT
END OF YEAR

Sec notes to financial statements.

Sl.210,379

1243 ,023

141

5,375

20,520

2,539
397

56,920

- - - ---

Capiul addition

62S

$58.1 39

225, 124

174,602

15. 592

6,226

656

I ,6&7 ,636

1,602 ,310

--- - - - - -- ---

~

5Q,QQQ

~

$50.802

12,007,258

1225 ,749

il77,6l_j

)20,967

SI ,887 ,636

G'>

~
z
0

5

8m
,,0
c~
,,
0

:JJ

z
:;;

~
......

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

368

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CALIFO RNIA MASON IC FOUND ATION
NOTES TO FINANC IAL STATEM ENTS
1.

Investments in marketa ble securities are stated at fair market values
and, to thf extfen~
that mana cment intends to hold such investments for more than
one_year, are c ass1. 1e
as noncuJe nt assets. Gains or losses that result from market fluctuatl
o~s are reco~mzed
in the period such fluctuati ons occur. Realized gains or losses resultmg
from sa _es ~r
maturities of securities are calculated on an adjusted cost basis:
Adjusted cost. lS t c
market value of the security at the beginning of the year, or cost 1f
purchase d dunng the
year.

ORGAN IZATIO N AND SUMMA RY OF
SIGNIFI CANT ACCOU NTING POLICIE S
~anization - The California Masonic Foundat ion was

established in 1968 by the Grand
ge of Free and Accepte d Masons of the State of California (Grand
Lodge). The
Foundat ion is fonned as a nonprofit charitable corporat ion to
funher all phases of
education, charity and science. The Foundation receives administrative
services from the
Grand Lodge.

1990 Reclassifications - .Certain 1990 amoun_ts in the financ ial statemen
ts have been
reclassified to confonn with the 1991 presenta uon.

2.

Fund Acco untin~ - To insure observance of limitations and restrictio
ns placed on the use
of resources available to the Foundat ion, the accounts of the Foundat
ion are maintained
in accordance with the principles of fund accounting.

INVEST MENTS
Investme nts are presente d in the aggregate at fair market value and
are compris ed of the
fo llowing:

. • . . - .•.. 1991. - .....••

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Foundat ion arc reported
in self-balancing
funds as follow:
•
•

•

•

Hany Walker Lister Scholarship Fund - This fund was established from
of a variable apprecia ble life insurance policy. The policy was redeeme a contribution
d during 1988.
The principal of the fund cannot be expende d. The income of the
fund can only be
used to fund scholarships.

•

Starr King Lodge No. 344 Scholarship Fund - This fund was establish
ed by the Starr ·
King Lodge from the Robert Swartz Charitab le Trust. The principal
of the fund
cannot be expende d and the income of the fund is to be expende d for
the benefit of Starr King members, their children, grandchildren, niecesscholarships for
and nephews.
MacKec hnje Fund - This fund was established by a bequest from Jack
The principal of the fund cannot be cxpt;nded and the income of I. MacKechnie.
the fund is to be
expende d for scholarships for needy high school graduate s of proven
outstand ing
athletic achievement.

•

Cost

General Fund - Resourc es are available for support of Foundat
ion programs and
supporti ng services.
Amarant h Fund - Resources are restricted by a trust agreeme nt with
Homes of California. The agreeme nt specifies that principal is to be the Amaran th
income is to be used to provide educational grants to women under ageinvested and the
twenty-one.
F. M. Robinson Memorial Fund - This fund was established by contribu
tions from
Mrs. F. M. Robinson. The principal of the fund cannot be expended
. Income from
the fund is to be expende d for scholarships.

•

Coalinga Masonic Lodge Scholarshifi Fund - This fund was
Coalinga Lodge. The principal of thcund cannot be expende d andestablished by the
the income of the
fund is to be expende d for scholarships for Coalinga area students.

•

Drug Educatio n Fund - This fund was established by the Grand
Lodge to provide
financial support to ongoing programs aimed at prevention of d rug
and alcohol abuse
through education of young children at grade levels 4 through 6.

369

3.

Market

• ••...... 1990 .••• . - . - •
Cost

Market

Corpora te stocks and bonds
U.S. governm ent obligations
Money market accounts

53 1. 376 s 495,343 s 531 , 304
s1,1484,545 s1,136,35
919,979
903,026
9
00 ,876
44 7.902

447,902

Total

i 2.033 . 323

i z 111s 1637

395 . 491

395.491

ii. 793 .860 i i 1846. 774

FEDER AL E-XCJSE TAXES
In accordance with the applicable provisions of the Internal
Reveni:ie Oxle, the
Foundat ion is classified as a private foundation and 1s subject to
an cxc1ds~ tax
net
·
I
d.
· s as defined by the Oxle Accor mg1y foend era
1
investment income, me u mg r~a l'ize d gam
'
d
$3
107
f June )o 1991
excise taxes have been recognized m amounts of $3,511 an
,
as o
•
and 1990, respectively.
In addition the Code requires that certain minimum program servic
d~str~buti~nst'be
made in ac~ordance with a specified form_ula. At June 30, 1991and
199 • t e oun a ion
had distributed more than the required m1mmum.

0

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

370

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

371

EXHIBIT 2

EXHIBIT 1
CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

GRAPH OF SUPPORT AND REVENUE
JUNE 30, 1962 TO 1991

GRAPH OF EXPENSES
JUNE 30, 1962 TO 1991

Thousands
500 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thousands
400.----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--,

350 .... . ..... ... ... .... .......... ····· ···· ···· ... .

400 .......... . .. ......... ········ .... .. ... .
300 ··· ···· · ..... · ········ ····· · ··. ··-······ · ··· . . .

250 . ...... , . .. .. . -......... .... .. . . ......... ... .. .

300 ........ ... ... .. ..... ··· ··· ···· ...... . .

200 ... .. ........ --.... .. .. . .. . . ..... . .
200 ·········· ···-···· · ··· ·· ··· ··· ···- ·· · .. ... ·· · ···-

150 .. . . .. .... . .. .... .... . -.. -. -.. .. .
100

100 . ....
50 ... . ... .. .... - . .. . .. .. .... .. .. .. . . .. ... . - .... . .

1984

1982

-

1986

1988

CONTRIBUTIONS/ SUPPORT + INTEREST

1990

1982

-

1984

1986

GRANTS + OTHER PROGRAMS

1988

1990

* SUPPORTING SERVICE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

372

373

MASONIC HOMES POOLED INCOME FUND AUDIT

MASONIC HOMES POOLED INCOME FUND

Deloitte &
Touche

BALANCE SHEETS. DECEMBER 31. 1990 AND 1989

50 Fremon! Stree1
San franc1sco. Calllorn'a 94105·2230
Telephone (4151393-4300

Telex 34 0336
Facs,m•le (4151227-0452

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Board of Trustees
Masonic Homes Pooled Income Fund
San Francisco, California
We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of Masonic Homes Pooled Income Fund
as of December 31, 1990 and the related statement of income and fund balance for the year
then ended . These financial statements are the responsibility of the Fund's management.
Our responsi~ility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on o ur audit.
The Fund's financial statements as of December 31, 1989 were audited by other auditors
whose report dated February 12, 1990, expressed an unqualified opmion on those
statements.

ASSm
Cash

In o ur opinion, such 1990 financial statements prese nt fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of the Fund as of December 31, 1990 and the results of its operations for
the year then ended in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

January 30, 1991

50

s

50

51,922

53,362
104,609
3.480.118

TOTAL

S3.638.139 S3.439.348

5,000

3.382.376

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
LIABlLITIES:
Distributable income payable
Due to Masonic Homes of California
Total

$

4,303
10.185
14,488

s

5,582
75.072
80,654

3.358.694

FUND BALANCE

3.623.651

TOTAL

S3.638.139 S3.439.34§

See notes to financial statements.
We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

s

Investment income receivable
Scc;urity sales receivable
Investments in marketable securities· at market

374

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

375

MASONIC HOMES POOLED INCOME FUND

MASONIC HOMES POOLED INCOME FUND

STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND FUND BALANCE
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31. 1990 AND 1989

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.

INCOME:
Interest:
Bonds
Money market accounts
Total
Dividends - common stocks
Total income
FUND BALANCE AT BEGINNING OF YEAR
CHANGES IN FUND BALANCEContributions from donors
·
Gain (loss) on sale of investments
Net c_han~e in market value of securities
D1stnbut1ons to beneficiaries
Remainder interest distributed to Masonic Homes of California
FUND BALANCE AT END OF YEAR

The Masonic Homes Pooled Income Fund was organized in 1974 and is a charitable
remainder trust to which do nors contribute irrevocable remainder interests in propeny
while retaining an income interest for life for one or more beneficiaries. The donors arc
entitled to a tax deduction equivalent to the present value of the remainder interest in the
propeny contributed.

s 286,127 s 302,552
9,546
295,673

1Z.J~

297,673

z.ooo

l l4,938
70Q
315,638

3,358,694

3,488,478

270,263
15,698
(10,819)

00,185

204 ,206
(1,320)
86,760
(315,638)
(419,43Q)

IJ.6~3.65!

1J 1 358 1 694

(297,673~

ORGANIZATION

The property tra nsferred by a donor is held in trust by the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes Pooled Income Fund and is commingled with and invested and
reinvested with other properties transferred to the Fund. All dividend and interest
income of the Fund is distributed quarterly to the beneficiaries, based on their
proportionate share of the Pool. Upon the death of each donor's last income beneficiary,
the remainder interest is distributed to Masonic Homes of California, a charitable
corporation.

2.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Investments - Investments in marketable securities are reported at their fair market value.
Properties contributed during the year by donors are recorded at their fair market value
at date of receipt. Gains or losses resulting from sales or market fluctuations. are
recognized as adjustments to fund balance in the period such sales or market fluctuations
occur.

See notes to financial statements.

Administrative Costs - Administrative costs of the Pooled Income Fund totaling S45,339
in 1990 and $46,743 in 1989 are paid by the Masonic Homes of California.

3.

FEDERAL AND STATE INCOME TAXES
The Fund pays no income tax on income distributed to beneficiaries. Applicable federal
and state income taxes are paid by the beneficiaries on their share of distributed income.

4.

INVESTMENTS IN MARKETABLE SECURITIES
Investments at December 31, 1990 and 1989 are presented at fair market value and are
comprised of the following:

. • . . . . . . • 1990 •...•...•
Cost
Market

•.•...... 1989 ........•
Cost
Market

Corporate stocks and bonds
U. S. government obligations
Money market accounts

s 422,729 s 412,275 s 444,567 s 456,052
2,755,261
184.652

2,883,186
184,657

Total

$3,362 1642

$3 1480 1118 $3 1237 1890 $3 1382 1376

2,557,994
235.329

2,690,995
235.329

376

an

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC RETIREMENT PLAN AUDIT

CALIFORNIA MASONIC RETIREMENT Pl.AN

Deloitte &
Touche
- -- 0

50 Fren-ort Street

San franc1sco, Ca1olorr.1a 94105-2230

Tele> 340336
Facs1m11c 1415) 227-0452

Telephone 14151393-4300

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

California Masonic Retirement Plan:
We have a udited the accompanying statement or net assets available for benefits of the
California M asonic Retirement Plan (the Plan) as of December 31, 1990, and the related
statement of changes in net assets available for benefits for the year then ended. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Pla n's management. O ur responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. The Plan's finan cial
statements for the year ended December 31, 1989 were audited by other auditors whose
report, dated June 21, 1990, expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements.
We conducted our audit in ac.cordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the a udit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whet her the financial statements are fre e of materia l misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit a lso includes assessing the acco unting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the net assets
of the Plan at December 31, 1990 and the changes in its net assets for the year then ended in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming an o pinion on t he basic financial
statements taken as a whole. The supplementa l schedule of assets held fo r investment as of
December 3 1, 1990 is p resented for the purpose of additional analysis and is not a required
part of the basic financial statem ents, bu t is supplementary information required by the
Department o f Labor' s Rules and Regulat ions for Repo rting and Disclosure under the
Employee Retirement Income Security A ct o f 1974 . This schedule is the responsibility of the
Plan's management. Such supplemental schedule has been subjected to the auditing
proce dures applied in our aud it of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly
stated in all material respects when considere d in relation to the basic 1990 financial
statements taken as a whole.

June 28, 1991

-

STATEMENTS OF NET ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR BENEFITS
DECEMBER 31. 1990 ANP 1989

.illQ
ASSETS:
Investments at fa ir va lue:
U .S. government debt securities
Corporate debt secunties
Commo n stock
Total investments
Rece.ivables:
Interest and dividends
Other
T otal receivables
Cash
To tal assets
LIABILITIES:
Accounts pa yable
Pension benefits payable
Total liabilities
NET ASSETS AVAilABLE FOR BENEFITS
See a ccompanying notes to financial statements.

lill.

s 834,662 s 680,922
2,161,711
Z,25J,l!44

2,008,664
J,411.m
§,l0§,7M

61,290

55,579
1Z7

5 ,2~0.z11

6l,Z20

404,~J2

~~.7Q§
611. ~JZ

6,416,Q46

6,773,974

26,407

28,353
l Q,§Q!

Z6,4Q7
16.389.~32

Jl!.9~ 7

16 1 7~~ 1 0 17

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC RETIREMENT Pl.Ali

CALIFORNIA MASONIC RETIREMENT PLAN

STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET
EOR IBE YEARS ENDED

DE~~RArl~~1;.&~0~9~ENEFITS

INCREASES:
Interest
Contributions
Net appreciation (deprecia tion) in
fair value of investmenrs
Total
DECREASES:
Benefits paid
Administrative expenses
Investment expenses
Total
NET INCREASE (DECREASE)
NET ~SETS AvAI LAB LE FOR BENEFITS·
Bcgmmng of year
·
End of year

ll2.Q

mi

NOTES TO FINAl'CI AL STATEMENTS
1.

300,000

300,000

(611. 726)
l!I.547

1.301.JM

303,482
102,430

293,592
70,453

~~.ru

Emplorecs with five or more years of service arc entitled to annual pensio n benefits
be~mmng at normal retirement age (65). For service fri or to January 1, 1990, the annual
retirement benefi t at normal retirement is equa to 2% o f the avera~e annual
compensatio n earned during the fiv e ca lendar years prior to January I, 1989 11mes years
o f service through 1990. For se rvice afte r Decembe r 31, 1989 the an~ual rcllrement
benefit at no rma l retirement is equal to 2% of the compensation earned m each full and
partial year of service. T he. Plan permits early re.tire me nt at age s 55 t.o 64. Marned
employees may elect to rece.1ve their pensio n be.nefns m the form of~ JOmt a nd survivo r
ann uity. If employees terminate before re ndering fi ve ye a rs o f service, they forfeit the
right to receive the po rtion of their accumula ted plan benefits attributable to the
Company's contributions.

~l .!U.2

4~6,9ZS

4l5,Q~4

(345,378)

886,316

§,73~,QP

5,848,7Q.l

D ESCRIPTION OF THE PLAI'
The California Masonic Re tirement Pla n (the Plan ) is a defined-benefit plan that
provides retirc:ment be nefits for substamially a ll emp loyees . of Ma son i~ Homes of
Cal ifo rnia, Maso nic Grand Lodge and Component O rganizations (collectively, Grand
Lodge) who have reached the age uf 21 and completed on_c year o f service . It is subje ct to
the provisions of the Emp loyee Retirement Income Secunty Act of 1974 ( ERISA).

s 423,343 s 412,759

~l,OlJ

379

If a n active em ployee dies at age 55 or older, a death bene fit equal to the value of the
employee's accumulated required contributions is paid to the e mployee's beneficiary. A
death benefit ..till also be p<iyable to an employee who dies aft~r accumula11ng five years
o f service. Active e mployees who become disabled and totallr incapacitated may rece ive
an a nnua l disability benefit that is eq ual to the norm al retirt:ment benefits they have.
accumu lated as of th e time they be come disa bled, reduced for early withdrawal.
Disability benefit s are pa id until norma l retireme n t age, at which time disabled
part icipants begin rece iving normal retirement bene fits .

1§.3§9.639 u.135.op
See accompanying notes to financial statements.

The assets of the Plan a re maintained in a trust established p ursuant to a trust a greement
between the G rand Lodge a nd Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
2.

S IGN IF ICANT ACCOUNTI NG POLICIES
Investments in securities a re stated a t fair value based on quoted market p rices.
Securities transactions are recorded as of 1he trade date .
Income taxes a re no t p rovided. The Plan is exempt from income taxation.
Investment manaLie me nt and administrative expenses are paid by the Plan.
Reclassifications have been made to the !989 fi nanc ia l statements to conform to
classifications used in !990.

3.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

380

Chan ges in the actua rial pres ent valu

FUN DIN G POL ICY
by pa nicip ating
ons to the Plan had been made
ll. Effective
Prior to Janu ary 1, 1982, contr ibuti
payro
red
cove
of
e
entag
perc
upon a
emp loyers and emp loyee s base d for empl oyee contr ibuti ons was term inate d. The
Janu ary l, 1982, the requ irem ent rmined amou nts suffic ient to amo nize the unfu nded
of the a ctive
empl oyers cont ribut e actua rially dete
bene fits over the working lifetime
prese nt value of a ccumula ted plan ibuti ons for 1990 and 1989 exce eded the minimum
cipa nts. The Gran d Lodg e 's contr
parti
funding requ irem ents of ER!S A.

4.

5.

e of accu mula ted plan bene fits were

.
.
Beginning balance
d due to.
Incre ase (dec rease ) durin g the peno
Assu mption chan ge
Plan amen dme nt
.
Bene fit paym ents
Bene fits accu mula ted and othe r items

PLA N TER MIN ATIO N
funds held in trust will
In the event of Plan term inati on, the A.
acco rdan ce with Secti on 4044 of ERIS

Significant actua rial assum ption s used
as follo ws:

INV EST MEN TS
of the Plan 's net

Fund ing meth od:
Disc ount rate :
Mort ality :

tmen ts at fair value
31 , 1990 a nd 1989, the Pla n's inves
Duri ng the year ende d Dece mbe r and held d uring the year) depreciat ed in value by
(including inves tmen ts boug ht, soldvalue by $588,621 in19 89 as follows:
$611,796 in 1990 and appr eciat ed in
1990

1989

U.S. gove rnme nt debt secu rities
Corp orate debt secu rities
Com mon stock

10,7 85
(47,4 66)
(575 , 115 )

50,1 89
54,9 12
483, 520

Tota l

H6 11.7 96) $588 ,621

6.

fits at Janu ary 1, 1990 and 1989,
of a ccum ulate d pla n bene
The actua rial pres ent value
follo ws:
as
is
tion,
valua
ial
ctuar
a
nt
rece
base d upon the most

Vest ed benefits:
Pa rticipants receiving bene fits
Othe r participan ts
T otal veste d bene fits
Nonv ested bene fits

S2, 166, 345
2.28 7.18 4
4,45 3,52 9
213, 444

Sl,9 13,7 22
2. 151 .278
4,06 5,00 0
173 .861

Tota l

14. 666, 973

14.2 38,8 61

illQ

l.ru

$4,2 38 ,861

$4,3 45,8 01
(460 ,948 )

225, 481
(295 ,014 )
497. 64 5

354. 008

s4.666,973 $4.238.861
Ian bene fits is the amo unt of accu

ted
mula
ty of

. ·n g the accu mula ted plan
in determ1m

bene fits were

Entry age norm a l cost meth od

~u~~;~~~ality T able (nondisabs lcd)
~g7~G~b~~i:
oad Board Disa bled Mort ality Rate
1977 Railr
(disa bled)

.
7.

Pl.A N AME NDM ENT S

uting
ng comp ensa tion in compyears
d for deter mini
.
•
pdat ed so that such perio d will be the
use
value
the
and
Effective J anua ry 1, 1990, th~no~
,014,
$214
~er;;1cea~a: ~(vested benefits by
le togep~e-1
utab
bene
incre ase t e v u
chan
9. This
-198attrib
1985fits
of all accru ed bene fits by $225 ,481 .
Ther e were no plan amen dmen ts in

ACT UAR IAL INFO RMA TION

as follows:

mulat~tfve rend ered , adju sted by the probabili

actuari~l prese nt value .of accu oyee
The
bene fits attrib utab le to setvl ces empl
ey.
paym ent and the time value of mon

be allocated and appl ied in

ts tha t repre sente d 5% or more
Ther e were no individual inves tmen
assets at Dece mbe r 3 1, 1990 a nd 1989.

381

1989.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cd,L[f0R~H6 MASO!::!'.!~ REJ] RfMf fil ~L.AN

CALIFORt:!IA Mti.~Ot:!IC REIIR fMEl' IT ~l.AN
FOR INVESTMENT
SUPPLEMENT AL SCHE DULE OF ASSETS3).HELD
1990
MBER
DECE
8S OF

382

FOR INVESTMENT
SUPPLEMENTAL SCHE DULE OF ASSETS HELD
AS OE DJ;;C fMafR Jl, 1990
SHARE OR
PAR VAL.!.!t;;

~fCUR[IT 1:1£SCRIP]]Qt:!

ill.!

HARK ET

HARK ET

PRICE

llil!f

U.S. GOVER NMEN T SECUR mES

1.1.s. Treasury
100,oo:>

U.S. Treasur y Notes, 7.875%, 07/ 15fi6
Tot;il U.S. Treasur y

2M2• SI00.18 8

100, 188
100™

100, 469
99,844
148,S03
149 ,273

104 . 938
104 .438
IOS .844
100.000

104. 938
104,438
158 . 766
IS0,000

201,875
699 964
792' ~58

108.166

mm
734 474

99 , 594

U.S. Govern ment Agencies
100,000
100,000
150,000
150,(XX)
200,(XX)

Fed Natl Mtg Assn, 9. 15%, 04/ 10198
Fed Natl Mtg Assn, 9.25%, 11/10194
Federal Home ln Bies, I0.85%, 10/26,92
FHLM Partn Ctf JOIE, 8.75%, 1111511 7
FNMA REMIC TR89-21G, 10.45%,
04125119
Total U.S. Government Agencies
Total U.S. Govern mcn1 Sccurilics

834, 662

CORPO RATE BONDS

130,000
160,(XX)
150,oo:>
100,000
395,000
100,000
100,oo:>
100,(XX)
100,000
160,000
100,000
150,000
120,000
100,CXXI
175,(XX)

Beneficial Corp Deb, 8.3%, 06/01AJ3
Capstcad Sec 1989-C, 9.8%, 03'1)!/l 9
Cilicorp Mtg 89B A6, 9.5%, 10/25/19
11T Finl Cor t I0. 125%, 04iU5J99
Loews Corp TO Cpn, I 0/1 7,()4
Nall Cr Card 1989-4, 9.45%, 12/.)1197
Pacific Gas & Elcc, 7.75%, 06/01,Q5
Progress ive Corp Oh, I0.125% , 1211sm
Public Svc El & Gas, 7.75%, 08/15'96
Ryland Mtg CMO 89·6, 9.85%, 11125120
Sccumy Pac Corp. 9.75%, 05/ 15199
Sid Cr Card TR9Q.3A, 9.5%, 05/ 10197
Sid Cr Card TR90·8A. 9.0%, 10/ 10/95
Travelers Corp NT, 7.625%. 01115197
Isl Boston M1g A·6, 9.0%, 12125119
Tola! Corpor ate Bonds

118, 170
156, 188
143 ,085
102 ,189
150,562
99,891
98,375
97. 732
99. 661
154,400
99, 089
149,398
118,369
91,060
165 , ~~9
! ,§4~, 7Q!!

83 ,87S
102. 750
93.000
100 . 938
39.000
100.957
81 . 315

100 .079
95 . 514
97 .ooo

92. 591
101. 394
IOI. 531
86.500
94 .12s

109,038
164,400
139,SOO
100 ,938
154, 050
100, 957
87,375
100,079
95 , 514
155,200
92,591
152,091
121,83 7
86,500
164,719
1,§24, 789

lnterna1iona1 & fo rejen
160,000
280,000

African De\< Bk NT, 9.75%, 12/15,QJ
C.111 Strip·lA DB Eur, 06/16/96
To~l ln1ern.t ional & foreign
Total Dome.Ilic, Internat ional and Foreign Bonds

165,730
167 ,417
333 , 147
2. 176 ,855

100. 501
62. 900

79 ,308
56 ,052

39.000
13.SOO

160,802
176.120
336 . 922

z.m,7ll

CORPO RATE STOCKS
Common Sloclcs
1,200
3,000

Ae1na Life & Cas Co
Ahmans on H F & Co

46,800
40,500
(Continued)

HARKET
VALUE

~AR KET

SHARE OR
fAR VALUE
1,000
2,000
2,200
1,500
1,600
3,000
3,000
2,100
1,.300
900
2,.300
900
1,500
1,400
1,200
800
1,700
1,500
1,800

1,200

Domesu c

383

1,100
4,000
2,900
2,000
2,000
600
1,000
800
2,000
1,750
i,500
1,400

500
1,200
1,600
1,400

1,000
2,000
1,.300
1,000
2,000
600
900
2,000
1,500
1,500
1,200
2,000
2,000
1,600
2,000
2,400

PRI CE

Sf;CUR !TY D fiSCRIP TIO N

~

Alumin um Co o f America
American Brands Inc
American ~re.ss Co
Armstro ng orld Inds Inc
Ashland Oil Inc
Chrysler Corp
Circuit City Stores Inc
CMS Energy Corp
Com paq Compu ter Corp
Deere & Co
Detroit Edison Co
Dow Chem Co
Du Pont EI De Nemours
East man KOdak Co
Eaton Corp
Federal Home Ln M1g Corp
Federal Na tl M1g Assn
Fim Chicago Corp
F1m Tenn Nail Corp
Ford Mir Co Del
Goodye ar T ire & Ru bber
Grca1 Wcstn Finl Corp
Green Tree Acccp Inc
Ho n;ywcll Inc
Ingersoll Rand Company
ln 1ernallonal Business Mach
ln1erna11onal Paper Co
ITICorp
James R iv Corp VA
K Man Corp
Linooln Natl C.orp Ind
Lockhee d Corp
Loews Corp
Marlln Ma riella Corp
Mead Corp
Melville Corp
Monsan 10 Co
Naiiona l Med En1erp rises Inc
Norfolk Sou1hn Corp
Penney J C Inc
Philip Morris Companies Inc
Ra)1 heon Co
Reynold s Metals Co
Salo mo n Inc
Sco11 Paper Co
Tandy Corp
Texas U1ils Co
Tex1ron Inc
Trinova Corp
Uniled Techno logies Corp
Wesi inghouse Elcc Corp
Woolwo rth Cor~
T o1al Commo n toclcs

S7.625
SI ,68S
41.SOO
6S , 013
20.625
6S,411
25.000
49 ,230
27 . 250
44,564
12.625
81,600
12. 750
62 ,430
27 .875
66 ,014
56. 37 s
,883
69
46.875
65 , 197
28.2SO
SB, 788
47. 500
so, 99 9
36.750
59, I SS
41.625
59. 594
49.875
49 , 240
48.750
61 , 398
35. 625
20,870
16.500
68 , 340
22.625
44 ,5SO
26.625
16. 907
18.875
57 , 679
lZ. 250
6Z, 571
10.875
65, 511
44 . soo
57 . 338
37 . 250
68,332
113 . 000
56. 961
53.500
47 ,810
48. 000
45. 948
26.250
SS, 166
28.375
42 ,451
43.000
69, 929
33. 625
69,110
98.12S
26,800
44.000
61, 193
25. 750
53 ,464
42 .000
62 ,908
48.250
57 ,821
37 . 500
41,283
41. 750
47 ,772
44.2SO
27 . 516
5 !. ISO
23. 345
70.125
40 ,641
57 .000
•8,879
24.375
76 ,88S
37 .875
31, l 59
29.250
61,402
36 .625
32 ,663
27. 375
61,455
18 .250
54 ,620
47 .87S
67. 769
28 . SOO
21 ,600
30 .250
58 746
2 ,90U5 S

s

s

S7 , 62 5
83 ,000
• S, 375
37,soo
43 ,600
37 ,875
38 ,250
58, 538
73,287
42 , 188
64 . 97 s
42, 750
SS, 125
58,275
59 , 850
39 ,ooo
60,562
24. 750
40 , 725
31,950
20,763
49 ,000
31, 537
89,000
74 . 500
67 ,800
53. 500
38,400
52,500
49, 656
64. 500
47, 075
49 ,063
52,800
41,200
58 ,800
48,250
75,000
54 ,275
44 ,250
103,500
42,075
51,300
48, 750
56 ,812
43 ,875
43 ,950
54 ,7 50
36 ,500
76 ,600
57 ,000
7~ ,6QQ
Z,832 ,081
(Con1in ued)

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

384

CALIFORNIA MASONIC RETIREMENT PLAN
SUPPLEM ENTAL SCHEDUL E OF ASSETS HELD FOR INVESTM ENT
AS OF DECEMB ER 31. 1990
SHARE OR
PAR VALUE

SECURITY DESCRIPTI ON

COST

MARKET
PRICE

MARKET
VAlUE

Foreign Stocks
1,700
1,000

l oco Lui C.Om
Royal Dutch Pete NY Reg Sh New
Total Foreign Stocks
Total C.Orporate Stocks
Total Investments

50,890 $ 25.375
78 .625

~S , Z56

43 ,1 38
7~ . m

IQ§ , 14§
3, 002 , 101

Z , 9~2 . ~44

1s 19as 1514

u.9so,~17

m ,163

(C.Onclude4)

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

387

GENERAL APPENDIX
Contents

Executive Committee . . . . . . .

.388

Standing and Special Committees

.388

Constitutional Boards

.401

Registration and Mileage Payments

.404

Statistical Table - Constituent Lodges . . .

. . . 423

.

.441

Extinct Lodges. includi ng consolidations

Elected Officers of Grand Looge Since Organization
...

. .524

Foreign Grand Lodges Recognized by California

. . . 528

Alphabetical List of Lodges

.. . 538

List of Inspectors (as of Octobe r 13, 1991}

Corres pondence Report Announcement

.552

. . .. . . . . . .. . .. .. . . .

.553

Index

I

I

.514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXECUTIVE COM MITT EE
.
.
Stanley M. Cazneaux (191) . . . 1111 Cnaliforrna St., San Francisco 9410 8
R. Stephen Doan (548) . . 6411 Seab
h~ Palos Verdes 90274
W~~ren J. Blomseth (55l ) . . . . ry 1 Dr., R~nc
55 Indian Hills Or. , Novato 94949
W1ll1am F. Stovall, Jr. (540) 1635 E.
Blvd ., #4A , Long Beach 90802
cean
.

P.O. Box 370049, Montara 94037
Rog er S. Murr ay (762) . . . . . . . . .
oa Blvd ., #405 , Van Nuys 91405
Raymond Rosenbaum (352) . 7100 Balb
College Park, Seal Beach 90740
Michael W. Stovall (327) . . . . . . 272
. . 120 E. Amherst, Claremont 91711
Rodney P. Wineberg (436) . .
. . . . . . . . . . 5188 University Ave. ,
Leonard Wormington (242)
Santa Barbara 93119-4553

STA NDIN G AND SPECIAL COM MITT EES
Com men cing Octo ber 16, 1991

CREDENTIALS

38B

0.

CHARTERS
Stan ding Com mitte e
Vandell C. Owen (301 )
· 1248 1. Russell Ave. Chino 91710
· · · · Cal'f
Kay C. Crill (540) . . .
3366
1
orrna Ave.. Long Beach 9080 7
Norb ert E. Driggers c224) · · · · ·
Cromwell .er.. Baker~field 93304
Harold H. Goeringer (720) : : : : : ~ 721
· · · 1803 Wh1tendale, Visalia 93277
Haskell L. Goo dma n (520)
90036
. . . 435 S. Curson, #10J , Los Angeles
Edmund W Heath (824)
1
9301
arillo
. . . : · · · · · P.O. Box 3025 , Cam
J~mes E. Higb y (355)
91
a
Arlet
,
Bella
331
· · · · · . l 3870 Terra
Richard L. Taylor (3 80)
· g Beach 92646
· · · · · 19031 Mathew c1·r., H unt1n
G eorge R. Wiech (209)
ova Dr., San Luis Obispo 93405
Jose ph Freeland (776) Ad~i;o~ .1621 Card
. . . . P.O. Box 4108, Seal Beach 90740
/,.
COM MER CIAL ISM
Spe cial Com mitte e
.
Robert C. Coe (322) . . .598-A W H untington Dr., Arcadia 91007-2432
·
John L. Darms. Jr. (396) . . . .
. . . . . . 1042 Jost Ln., Alameda 94501
Dou glas S. Lawrence (752)
Monte Verde Dr. Santa Rosa 95409
Neal E. Macurda (696) . . . : : .5~2~ 874
Forrestal Rd., San Diego 921 20
John T. Ward (272) . . . . . . .
1
. 630 Barranca, #102 , Glendora 91740
S
COM MUN ITY AND PUBLIC RELA T10N
Spec ial Com mitte e
Henry Rieger, Jr. (652) .
5
~hon Wy., Oceanside 92056-7406
Eldean Behunin (35) .. . · 4::~ GMara
eorgia St .. #8, San Diego 92116-3607
Merle J. Bouche, Jr. (769) : .
1
.3 .. 38809 Deer Run Rd., Palmdale 9355
Stephen H. Chan (136)
#60
Ave
2nd
26-3
· · · ·
. an Francisco 94121
··
Cl~~ence l. Close Ill (626) . . . .
Dr., Bonita 92 002
Palo
3925
·
·
·
·
·
Wilham S. Crane (3SO) . . . . . ·
463 8-49th St., San Diego 92115
·
·
·
·
·
Ralph E. Enz (708)
25091 Mackenzie, Laguna Hills 92653
Charles H. Herbert
. . 13257 Beechtree St. Lakeside 92040
Thom as F. McDuffie (612) .. . . .725
E. Arendale Ave., San Gabriel 91775
John 0 . McO uow n (696) ..· : : ~
3
· · 996 Calgary Ave., San Diego 92122

s

(lBO) . . .. . . .

389

Stan ding Com mitte e
Ave., Redwood City 94061 -3442
John W. Dennis (376) . 246 Santa Clara
ple City Blvd .. #4, Arcadia 91007
George E. Fuson, Jr. (547) .. 1214 Tem
Sylvan Ave .. Mountain View 94041
Albert F. Koula (651) . . . .. 433-75
95819
. .. . . . . . 5409 "M" St., Sacramento
Richard C. Ryan (58) .
76
1-29
9355
dale
Callet St .. Palm
Byro n C. Smith (542) . . . . . . . 545 W.
1
9582
nto
ame
Sacr
. . . . . . . 3677 Halter Ct ..
Frank B. Stimson (789)
5
9459
k
Cree
ut
Waln
ood Ct .. # 1,
Oliver A. Thomas (40) . 1101 Singingw
FINANCE
Stan ding Com mitte e
93003
. .. . . . . 5448 N. Bryn Maw r, Ventura
Harr y L. Maynard (214 )
90274
es
Verd
s
Palo
. 6411 Seabryn Dr., Rancho
R. Stephen Doan (548)
94066
o
Brun
San
..
. 121 Goo dwin Dr
Albert A. Fritz (376) . .
93033
rd
Oxna
. 350 Del Sur Wy.,
Norm an R. Hawkes (633) .. . . . . .
94121
cisco
Fran
30th Ave .. San
Robert A. Klinger (120) . .. . . . . . 28391775
iel
Gabr
San
;
S. King St.
Herbert E. Pom pey (627) . .. . . . . . 777
GRA ND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
Stan ding Com mitte e
. 845 Sloat Blvd .. San Francisco 94132
Kenneth C. Birnbaum (120) . . .
0
. . . 601 Tompkins St. , San Francisco 9411
Richard J. Mod olo (1)
0
9408
cisco
e Ct.. Sou1h San Fran
Eric L. Albert (139) . . . .. . 823 Ridg
et St. #949, San Francisco 94102
Mark
760
.
Henry Albert (139) . . . . .
0
. . . . . . . . 958 Hall St .. San Carlos 9407
William Chantler (690)
1
9406
City
a Clara Ave .. Redwood
John M. Dennis (376) .. . . 246 Sant
University Ave.. Palo Alto 94301
1425
.
.
.
.
.
Robert E. Fraze (651 ) . .
8 Cran broo k St. , San Leandro 94579
Michael M. Ganitch (494) . . . 1560
Prospect Ave., San Anselmo 94960
Steven Glasenk (120) . . . . . . . 22
Cordilleras Ave., San Carlos 94070
Neil W. Grush (226) . . . . . . . 1464
. 3070-24th Ave .. San Francisco 94132
Michael V. Ivanoff (136)
. . 1556 Parron Dr .. San Mateo 94402
George V. Lazorisak (139)
. . 1078 Clay St.. San Francisco 94108
Stanford C. Lee (139) . .
6
. . . 1907-12th Ave .. San Francisco 9411
Stanford P. Snoek (120)
1
9406
City
ood
Emerald Hill Rd .. Redw
Donald E. Strand (376) . . . 634

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Wray A White (400)
.
14
Dale Will (818)
. . . 27 Flonbunda Ave., #201 Burr
Rodney E. Wince~t~~n.(4J.1 . . . . 1618 Grosbeak Av~.. Su~~~~= 94010
Ralph Behling (400) Medica/Ad
..... 4909 Santa Aita Ad., Richmo d 994087
visor . . 420 Park
n 4103
ln., San Mateo 94402
HISTORIC SITES ANO
BUILDINGS
Special Committee
C. Les Shearer (51) . . .
~lyde R. Berriman (174) · · · ·
· · · P.O. Box 662, Foresthill 9
563
~1nnes Bowman (95)
. . . .
. 11301 Shennado, Plymouth 9566 1
9
Jim Chapman (149)
· · · · · · P.O. Box 122 M rt
James Dodds (13) . : : : . . . 104 203 Maple St., Susanvifle ~le~lo~~:;:
Tho~~ J. Hargaden (728)
.
55 Deercrest Trail, Nevada City 95959
· · · 4421 Tulane, long Beach
Da~id King (660) (820 )
9080 8
· · · . 114-43rd St., Newport
Alvin C. Pond ( 16)
8
Augustin Popp (814) . . . . . . 8328 Michigan Bluff Rd. Fore:~.~ ~2663
C. Bob Thomas (33) : . . .
. 10528 Angell St:, Norw ,'k 5631
Demar B D nd
· · · · . . . . . . . . .p 0 B
a 90650
lest
. u as (13) Consultant . 547 W B . . ox 297, Avery 95224
er l. Shaw, Jr. (33) Consultant
· road St., Nevada City 95959
· · · · · · · · · . Star Route 1, Box l,
Angels Camp 95222
NSPECTORS' ORIENTATION

/i

Special Committee
Paul T. Hodiak (442)
C~~rfes H. Alexander 1'1). . . · ·
· · 1735 View Wy Er C .
· . . .
1025 w l'
··
a1on 92020
William M
. . . . .
· 1n~o Ave., Chico 95 926
urphy (106)
W. Fr~nk Postmus (754) .
. . . . 3173 Bnan Ct., Arcata 95521
Francis A. Russell (341) .· .· : : .
342 Mountalvi_n Or., San Pablo 94806
· · · · · 520 Willow St., Oxnard
Mel Tallon (300) . . . . .
93033
· / · · · . . . 1624 Dwig
· ht St., Redlands 92373

(i

~INSURANCE

. .
Special Committee
Ritchie Waterhouse (202) 29 0
.
Cha.rfes S. Herzberg (303) . .. ~eana1re Dr., Rancho Palos Verdes 90274
D~v1d E. Tavernetti (302) .
. . . . .P.O. Box 829, Porterville 93258
R!chard Welsh (506) . . . . : · · · · · · · · P.O. Box F, King City
93930
~1chard 0. Wright (256)
. . . 9801 Amestoy Ave., Northrid
:>tuart Wright (202)
. . . . . . . . . 13675 N. Hartley ln l~~ 91325
· · · · · · 22835 Calabash S
··
'95242
)ennis Sha
ffer (437) Consultant
t. · Woodland Hills 91364
· · · . 39747 Eadm p
er, almdale 93551

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

391

~VESTMENT
Standing Committee
Glenn D. Woody (380) . 151 Kalmus Dr., Suite D-101, Costa Mesa 92626
/.John l. Darms, Jr. (396) . .
. . . . . 1042 Jost ln., Alameda 94501
Thomas C. Holm (404) .. . . . . . . 1131 Flamingo St., Glendora 91740
/.James F. Leggate (479)
. . . . 7202 Golf Course ln., San Jose 95139
George
P.
Leung
(393)
.
.
.
30 Graystone Terrace, San Francisco 94114
1
,,<John 0 . Morris (528) . . .
. 13336 Huston, #D, Sherman Oaks 91423
. . . . 6797 N. Chance Ave. , Fresno 93710
,Chris U. Patropulos (344)
/ Joseph F. Reed (327)
.. 15951 Villanova Cir., Westminster 92683
~Joe Winchell (721)
. . . .
. 22218 Germain St. #2, Chatsworth 91311
Jack F. Bowley (370) Advisor . 2473 Sharon Oaks Dr., Menlo Park 94025
JURISPRUDENCE
Standing Committee
Richard l. Riemer (778)
. . . . 850 N. Parton, Santa Ana 92701
Jerrold B. Braunstein (732)
. 6608 Chiquita Wy., Carmichael 95608
. . .. . 1520 West St. , Redding 96001
Richard B. Eaton (2) . . .
Charles W. Foster (807)
. 5703 Emerson Ct., # 716, Agoura Hills 9 1301
Allen B. Gresham (348) . . .
. . 825 Vista Dr., San Bernardino 92405
James D. Johnson (672) . . . . . . . 27422 Valderas, Mission Viejo 92691
Julius Kahn (188) . . . . . . . . . . . 168 So. Park, San Francisco 94107
Jack R. Levitt (35) . . . . . . . . 2570 Fairway Dr., Bozeman, MT 59715
Melville H. Nahln (520) 6500 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 550, Los Angeles 90048
Bruce l. Conroy (544) Consultant .. 2695 Windsor Ave.. Altadena 91001

~OGE RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
Special Committee
Bob Kulick (623) . . . . . .. . 11926 Rexbon Ad .. Granada Hills91344
Vincent D. Alianiello (672)
. 24271 Lysanda Dr. , Mission Viejo 92691
.930 Underhills Rd., Oakland 94610-2527
Larry C. Basker (551) .
Richard J. Bingle (428)
. .. 4922 Burnaby Dr., Covina 91724
James 0. Fourr (822)
. . . . . . . . Drawer F, Boron 9351 6
Gilbert W. Haas (396)
. . . . 1810 Hubbard, Alameda 94501
. 2637 Yuma Cir. , Sacramento 95827
Alan L Jeffery (40)
TA Kanestar (687) .
. . . . . . 415 Joann Cir.. Vista 92084
.. 704 Bicknell Rd ., Los Gatos 95030
Leo B. Mark {10) . .
William C. Michalk (1 28)
. .. . . . . . . 29268 Road 156, Visalia 93277
Raymond D. Parkins (655)
. . .. 1120 E. Market St ., long Beach 90805
Charles P. Stillman (6 74)
. . . . . 6499 Saddle Dr., Long Beach 90815
Robert M. Tugwell {380) . 4633 Via Vista Cir. , Huntington Beach 92649

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

392

MAS ONIC COD E
Stan ding Com mitte e
Haro ld 0 . McDa niel (2)
. 123 Ledell Dr., Redd ing 9600 2
Rich ard S. Andr ews (60) . . . . . . . . . .
· · · P.O . Box 106, Quin cy 95971
Dona ld B. Cons tine (344 · · · · · · · ·182
-32 nd St.: San Fran cisco 94121
) · · · · · ·
Roge r H. Cow ling (2)
4
La100 Pine St.. Redd ing 96001
Bruc e Silve rman (3 44) · · · · ~/~ ~ri' verm an w Corp., Emb arcad ero Ctr
. . .
San Fran cisco 94111 -382J •
H. Fran cis Lewi s (192) Cons ultan t
· · · · · · · · · · . 1111 Califo rnia St
San Fran cisco 9410B

GRA ND LODG E OF CALI FOR NIA

Or., Santa Rosa 95401
Willia m F. Poyn ter (370) . . . . . . . 283 Oak Tree
.39705 Golfe rs Dr., Palm dale 93551
Norm an M. Schu ltz (369) . . . .
3500 W. Manc heste r, #22,
John R. Noca s (450) Cons ultan t . . . . . . . .
Ingle wood 90305

~ASONIC INFO RMA TION PAN EL
Spec ial Com mitte e

····

/u

MAS ONIC EDU CAT ION

Stan ding Com mitte e
.
Robe rt L. Sore nsen (686)
251 9 Hied e Ct .. El Sobr ante 94803
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
.
.
.
.
)
c
r
John L. Bake 68
1230 N. San Jose St, Stoc kton 9520 3
· · · · ·
Lee Baxt er (684)
618 W. Longd~n Ave., W. Arcadia 9100 6
Harr y Bord ley (321) · · · · · · · '
y View Ct., Pleas anton 9458 8
Norm an Brya nt (222) . . . . . . . 7228 Valle
1301 Gerr y Wy. , Roseville 95661
) . . . .. · · ·
Willia m D. Burro ughs
8
14832 ~art St., Van Nuys 91405
Willia m H. Cham bers c486) · · · · · · · ·
24 7 Arvin St:. Bakersfi~ld 93308
Harry E. Estes (111) . . . : : ." ." . . . .
23
· · · · · · ~arydith Ln., Chic o 9592 6
Norto n J. Giffo rd (s 11 )
ne Dr., Simi Valley 93063
Kalai
2935
.
.
.
.
Thom as A. Hand ell (325 ) . . .
1104 Josh ua St. . Esco ndido 9202 6
Jame s L. Lewis (50 1) . . : ." : · · · ·
0
. .. .. 475 Four th Ave., West wood 9602
Harr y S. Liebe rman (144)
7
9412
. . . . . .55 Arroy o Wy., San Fran cisco
W. Bruc e Pruitt (712)
ella Rd., Los Altos Hills 94002
Norm an M. Schu ltz (3S9) . . . . 14101 Manu
5 Golfe rs Dr., Palm dale 93551
3970
·
Auri Spig elma n (639) . . : ." : · · · · 148
N. June s.t.. Los Ange les 90004
.
.
.
.
(147)
ns
Steve
G.
ld
Rona
188 .Empire Dr., Fortu na 9554 0
·
·
·
·
·
·
· · · ·
John Storl ie (286)
2238 Ohve St., Paso Robles 9344 6
Mario n B. Tatu m J;. (20
945 S. McC loud St., Anah eim 92805
· · · · · ·
Jack D. Ward (523)
Chest~r St., Para moun t 90723
Gord on C. West ervel t 259· . . . . . . 8711
4
9250 3
) · · · · · l00 o Hend rick St., Riverside
Billy A. Wilke rson (S43 (
5318 Hanb ury St., Long Beac h 9080 8
Rodn ey P. Wine ber .
120
E. Amh erst St., Clare mont 91711
) · · · · ·
Gera ld
o 9211 7
. . . . . . . . . 275 7 Tont o Wy.. San Dieg

(s2

7) · · · · · · · ·

L6 .. ....

Winstanley(~~)

MAS ONIC HIST ORY
Stan ding Com mitte e
p
Thom as R. Hall (542)
~· Box 8787, Universal City 916058
i~
'
in
s
'
·11Bs
(120)
C. John Bellman, Jr.
g g ood Ct., #4, Waln ut Cree k 9459
Willia m Kludj ian (JS 2)
90638
.
. . . . . 14503 Dunn et Ave., La Mirad a
Ralph E. New man (635
4
9250
side
5
) · · · · · · · · 286 Juru oa Ave.. River

393

Hartf ord L. Ruta n (756) .
Char les H. Alexa nder (111)
Jack R. Evan s {626)
Melv in F. Schu ster (687) .
Robe rt E. Winte rton (5 76)

. . . . . . 1719 W. St., Conc ord 9451 9
. . 1025 W. Lindo Ave., Chic o 95926
.. 87 E. Emer son, Chula Vista 92011
. 1233 Park Hill Ln., Esco ndido 92025
. .. 4152 -30th St., San Dieg o 92104

MAS ONIC SER VICE BUR EAU S
Stan ding Com mitte e
DeM ay H. White (378)
Jess e C. Cana le (442)
A. Bruc e Ivie (813) . .
W. Fran k Post mus (754)
Ray H. Rook ard (480)

4
. . . 19545-1 Sher man Wy., Reseda 9133 5-343
7
9211
o
Dieg
.. 3436 Bran dywi ne St. , San
91321
all
Newh
. .. 25064 High sprin g St..
342 Moun talvin Dr., San Pablo 94806-1141
. . . . . . 2024-42nd Ave., Oakl and 94601

MAS ONIC WIDO WS PRO GRA M
Spec ial Com mitte e
.8316 Oakf ront Ln., Citru s Heig hts 95610
Fred C. Brya n (732)
. . . . P.O . Box 565, Los Molin as 9605 5
Nels on Barto o (150)
. . . . . . .34125 Elk Ln., Aube rry 93602
Alan 8 . Burn ham (417)
rs Ln., San Bern ardin o 92410
Solim ondi Coric elli (178) . . . . 7349 Roge
Ram pant Dr., Carm ichae l 9560 8
Maur ice R. Cros by (131) . . . . . 6408
9 S. Mayb rook, Whit tier 90603
Wilfred Edm onds on (323) . . . . . . 1085
#209 K, San Luis Obis po 93405
Willia m J. Edwa rds (209) 1580 Diab lo Dr.,
Bear Cree k Dr.. Bish op 93514
Harv ey C. Ferg uson (221) . . . . . . 1428
Mam ie Ave.• Ridg ecres t 93555
How ard C. Fish (691) . . . . . . . . . .606
Ave .• #1, Redw ood City 94062
Thom as C. Gear y (168) .. 33 Clare mont
na Ave., San Lean dro 9457 7
Silva no M. Giov anne lli (713) . . .. 584 Fortu
3120 Merc ed Pl., Oxna rd 93033
Jame s A. Guid dy (71 O) . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 2422 Teasley. La Cres centa 91214
Gail M. Hamill, Jr. (652)
. . . .. 5574 Trish Ct.. Redd ing 96003
Calvi n L. Ham ilton (254)
. . . 645 Sierra St., El Segu ndo 90245
Walte r W. Hawk (572)
.. 2330 Paler mo Dr., San Dieg o 9210 6
Jack L. Hodg e (620)
. 70 Sher idan St., San Fran cisco 94103
Paul John s (344) . .
14415 Cord ary Ave.• Haw thorn e 90250
Anto n G. Kahn (352)
.. 1646 9 Mesq uite St., Hesp eria 9234 5
Roy L. Kimm ell (595)
8
10710 El Cent ro Ave., Foun tain Valley 9270
Robe rt J. Lehm an (507)

394

PROCE EDING S OF THE

Richard H . Lowe {827)
. 8500 Starbit e Rd., Lake Isabella 93240
Britton Miller {543) . .
. 3182 Rowen a Dr., Los Alamito s 90720
Lonnie G. Neal (634) .
. 57069 Farrelo Ct., Yucca Valley 92284
Jack A. Potter (57) . .
. 2436 Red Pine Ct., Santa Rosa 95403
Claude T. Powers {25)
8346 Highwa y 193, Garden Valley 95633
Arthur H . Scott (326) .
636 Clearvi ew, Mohav e Valley, AZ 96440
John W. Siemer s {131) . . . .. . . .. 979 E. Jahant Rd .,
Acamp o 95220
Harry A. Spragu e (404) .. . . . . . . 356 N . Trayer Ave., Glendo
ra 91740
Ronald G. Stevens (147) . . . .
. . . . 188 Empire Dr. , Fortun a 95540
Charle s E. Thomp son, Jr. (394)
.. 1865 W. 179th St., Torran ce 90504
Robert L Welch {428) . . . . .
. . . 2004 Broach Ave., Duarte 91010
Robert Winter {187) . . . . . . .
. . . . 7700 Crews Rd., Gilroy 95020
MEMO RIAL SERVI CE
Standi ng Comm ittee
Robert W. Moore (30) . . . . . 367 Lakesh ore Dr., San Francis
co 94132
Robert N. Deter {611) .
. . 22309 Baltar St., Canog a Park 91304
Cheste r Rogers (35) . . . . .. . .. 450 E. Bradley , #85,
El Cajon 92021
John E. Wallac e (389) . . . . . 5528 Hazelb rook Ave.. Lakew
ood 90712
OFFIC ERS' ADMIN ISTRA TIVE SEMIN ARS
Specia l Comm ittee
Dougla s B. Eichen {315) . 16691 Simmo ne Ln., Huntin gton
Beach 92647
Darrel Dickey (242) . . . . . . . . . P.O. Box 5062, Santa
Barbar a 93108
Alvin Gorenb ein (618)
. . . . . 6853 McLen nan Ave., Van Nuys 91406
Robin Mansfi eld (35) . . . . .. . . . . 3681 Liggett Or., San
Diego 92106
Gerald Winsta nley (35) . . . . . . . . . 2757 Tonto Wy., San
Diego 92117
/ POLIC Y AND GENER AL PURPO SES
Standi ng Comm ittee
Lee A. Strong (670) . . .
. 13708 Via Del Palma, #B, Whittie r 90602
Charle s H. Alexan der (111) . . . . . 1025 West Undo Ave
.. Chico 95926
Stanley L Chann on (259)
. . . 2361 Davent ry Rd., Riverside 92506
J. Lloyd Clayton (750) . . . . . . 6142 San Lorenz o Ln.,
Anahei m 92807
Raymo nd A. Ebbage (499) . . . . . 1624 McClar en Dr .. Carmic
hael 95608
Verne W . Hendri x (448)
. . 75 Sun Valley Dr., Walnut Creek 94596
Sam M . Pavlov ich (366)
. . . . . . 3023 W . Palo Alto, Fresno 93711
William H. Price (259)
. 52280 Ponder osa Wy., LaPine. OR 97730
Judd L. Keener (580) Adviso r . . . . . . 16157 Arena Dr.,
Ramon a 92065

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

395

V PRINCE HALL RECOGNITION STUDY
Specia l Comm ittee
1735 View Wy., El Cajon 92020
paul T. Hodiak (442) · ·
·
B~~dw
ay, Costa Mesa 92627-2319
Edwin Long (708) · · · · · · · · · 3 . . . . 0 Citrus Ave.,
Chic o 95926
52
Theodo re Meriam (111) · · · · · · ·
Willow
St.,
Ox
nard 93033
520
Francis A. Russell , Jr. (341) .. . 3·334·
Sierra Ave., Fresno 93711- 0919
James M . Vaugha n (366) · · · · ·
PUBLI C SCHO OLS

48

W..

Standi ng Comm ittee
9245 West Liberty , Atwate r 95301
Joseph Silveira (99)
· · · · · ·
E. Minnes ota, Turtoc k 95380
John Allard (395) · · · · · · · · · · · · 1010_ th St. , San Francis
co 94103
355 7
Edward L. Barber _(370)
·
Charlin da St., West Covina 91791
Gordon M . Browni ng (334) . . . 6
8311 E. Sander s Ct., Fresno 93727
Floyd 8 . Buchan an (417) . . .
7217 Marina Pacific a Or., #11 ,
Wayne L. Butterb augh (428)
· · ·
Long Beach 90803
19806 E. Paseo Lucer, Walnut 91789
Harold W. Croule t, Jr. (405) . . . . 256 San Rafael, Santa
Barbar a 93109
Earl Cumpi ano (642) · · · · · · · ·
Jeffrey
Ct
..
Castro
Valley 94546
William M. Ferrell. (569) · · · · · · · 2750 Bronso n Wy., Riversi
de 92506
2065
William E. Hendri ck (332)
· · · · · ·
Pine
Oaks.
Oroville
95960
54
James B. Holling sworth (103)
· · · P.O. Box 201, Rosevi lle 95661
Kennet h W . K;~sel (2.2 2) · · · · · · · 9~5 Rando lph Ave.,
Oaklan d 94602
Alexan der T. K1rkpatnck (494) . : :
Longda le Or., Lemon Gr?ve 92045
Charle s W . LeRoy (726) · ·
White Ln., Bakers field 93309
3630
Lero~ Liverm ore (773) · · · · : : : : : 1420
Wyndh aven, Red ~luff 96080
Marvin Locke (2) · · · · · · ·
Countr y Club or., San Francis co 94132
Saul Madfes (120) · · · · · · 75
Curtis St. , Albany 94706
Claren ce E. Noble (686) · · · · · · · · · · 1067N. Clinton ,
Orange 92667
436
Jack 0 . Paris (604) · · · · · · · · · · ·
Farley
Ln.,
San
Diego 92122
97
Oarel Rey~olds (771) · · · · · · · ·
Plaid
Ave
.•
North
Highla
nd 95660
John W . Riley (789) · · · · · · · · 7 1
_20th St. , Santa Monica 90405
2331
Augdo n D. Ro~erts (369) . .. . 7131 McCon nell Ave .. Los
Angele s 90045
Ronald D . Robins on (369) . . .
610 Portofi no Ln., Foster City 94404
Robert H . Rolf~ (144) · · · · · · · · ·
S. Daniel Wy., San Jose 95128
995
John W. Runc1e (722)
· · · · · ·
3369 ''H'' St. , Eureka 95501
John H . Spittler (79) · · · · · · · · ·
; O~ord Rd .. San Marino 91108
5
Frank G. St~pp (367) · · · · · · · · ·
_15th Ave., San Francis co 94118
444
Clyde M. Stine (521) · · · · · · · · ·
E Cardell a Rd .• Merced 95340
William H . Stocka rd (99) · · · · · · · 2640 _~6th St. East, Palmda
le 93550
Richard 8 . Stout (769) · · · · · · ·
McElha ny Ave .. Santa Maria ~3454
Richard S. Sturge on (26 4) · · · 715 ~
Dr Hacien da Height s 91745
Howar d L. Tait (104) · · · · · 3271 u 1zura ··

2 21 E

7s333

56

42

1;

37716

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Douglas J. Theriault (663) . . . . . . . . . 609 Pleasant Ave., Ojai
93023
Roger Torrey (1) · · · . . . . . . . 1354-29th Ave., San Francisco 94122
L.. Albert ~heeler Ill (327) . . . . . 3740 Ransome St., Long Beach 90
804
Billy A. W1lk.erson (543) . . . . . . . 5318 Hanbury St., Long Beach 9080
8
. . . . . 940 Live Oak, Ukiah 95482
Dwayne Wright (146) · · · · ·
Raymond A. Young (499) . . . . .
1123-26th Ave Sacramento 95822
R?y l. Youngblood (381) . . . . . . . . 640 Flora D~ Oceanside 92056
Vince Carano (61) Consultant . . . . . . . . . 5410 San Pablo Dam Rd.,

..

.
El Sobrante 94803
Uni E. Compomizzo (175) Consultant . . . . 2712 Bautista Antioch 94509
Ralph C. Dills (765) Consultant . 5050 State Capitol, Sa~ramento 958 14
Roger S. M_urray (762) Advisor . . . . . . . . P.O. Box 49, Montara 94037
Roger D. Siems (615) Advisor . . . . . . 28012 Warren Rd., Hemet 92343

~ECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGE
Special Committee
W.illiam H. Price (259) . . . . . 52280 Ponderosa Wy., LaPine, OR 97739
Michael Marsellos (355) . . . . 1431 Ocean, #1219, Santa Monica 90401
RETIREMENT PENSION PLAN

Standing Committee

~1,r~n~- ~mith (394) . . . . . 3800 N. Bradfor? St., #172, Laverne 91750
.P
· ead (352) · . . . . . . . 492 Scenic Dr., Santa Barbara 93103
Keit_h John.son (540) . . . . . . . . 5959 Gundry Ave., Long Beach 90805
Craig_ G. Riemer (259) · . . . . . . . . 5920 Shaker Dr., Riverside 92506
Dennis Shaffer (437)
9
Edw r
.
· · · · · · · · · · · 3 747 Eadmer, Plamdale 93551
ad H. Siems (521) . . . . . 1200 California St., San Francisco 94109
REVIEW OF PROCEEDINGS

Standing Committee
John D. ~ur:ialat (824) · · . . . . . . . 161 Anacapa Dr., Camarillo 93010
~oe .N. Dishlip (824) . . . . . . . . . 44112 Village, #44, Camarillo 93012
..;.s~ie C. Heckman (824) . . . . . . . . 378 Murray Ave., Camarillo 93010
ilham R. Kavanaugh (824) . . . . 1954 DeWayne Ave., Camarillo 93010
John F. Lowe (341) · . . . . . 5434 E. Cherry Ridge Dr., Camarillo 93010
T. Dale Pease (824) · . . . . . . . . . . 181 E. Loup Dr., Camarillo 93010
RITUAL

Standing Committee
Ulysses G. Patropulos (344)

. . . . . . . . . . 1275 Washington St., # 1,
San Francisco 94108
Samuel E. Harris (612)
. 5044 Persimmon Ave., Temple City 91780
Paul D. Hennig (651)
· · · . . . . . . . . 1417-5th Ave, Belmont 94002

Reuben F. Herrold (303) .
Edward P. Margherio (34 7)
Howard E. Moore (228)
Edwin A. Robinson (35 7) .

397

. 606 N. Jaye St., Poprterville 93257
. 2503 Heide Ct .. El Sobrante 94803
. . . 1007 Eureka Ave., Davis 95616
. 9859 Via Sonoma, Cypress 90630-3437
SOJOURNERS

Special Committee
Eugene H. Bowman, Sr., (590) . . . . 1803 1/2 W. 11th St., Upland 91786
Wilbur H. Amberg (215) . . . . 5521 Terra Granada, Walnut Creek 94595
Guido J. Bianchi (384) 1020 W. Evan Hewes Hwy., #28, El Centro 92243
Robert A. Burger (275) .
. 12701 Orange Blossom, Oakdale 95361
. 1217 Country Club Dr., Modesto 95356
Arthur E. Buss (161) . . .
L. Leon Dias (590)
. . . . . . . 1281 o Easy St., Chino 9171 o
Theodore Ketterer (574) .
. .. 2400 Alpine Blvd., #3, Alpine 92001
1021 Roswell Ave., #1, Long Beach 90804
Steven J. Lucas (389)
John Lund (292) . . . . .
. . . . 2591 Monroe St., Santa Clara 95051
Robert L. Mason (841)
. 1419 Calle Lozano, Camarillo 93010-4104
. .. P.0. Box 2901, Yountville 94599-2901
Leo L. Noel (12) . . . . .
Elio Poletti (1 O) . . . . .
. . . . . . . 6464 Shaw Cir., Magalia 95954
.2137 Otis Dr., #312, Alameda 94501-5738
Paul M. Porter (480)
J. Norman Roberts (621)
. . . . . . . . . . 9752 S. Bartley Ave.,
Santa Fe Springs 90670-3116
Joel H. Springer Ill (462)
. 7771-33rd Ave., San Francisco 94121
. . . . . P.O. Box 574, Murphys 95247
Harold A Whitmyer (33)
SUBSTANCE ABUSE EDUCATION PROGRAM

Special Committee
Roy J. Henville (685) . . . . . . . . 3046 Stoneley Dr., Pasadena 91107
. 2713 Doverton Square, Mountain View 94040
Donald C. Briggs (346)
David H. Denbow (604) . . . . . . 3281 Terra Cotta Dr .. San Jose 95135
. . . 4815 Marathon Wy., Oceanside 92056-7406
Henry Rieger, Jr. (652)
Joseph Silveria (99) . . . . . . . . . . 9245 West Liberty, Atwater 95301
/ rEMPLE PROPERTIES

Standing Committee
C. Richard Hutchinson, Jr. (465) . . . 8630 E. Herndon Ave., Clovis 93612
. . . . . . . 24210 Bella Ct., Newhall 91321
Larry Adamson (512)(548)
Lowell E. Daniels (95)
. . . . . P.O. Box 963, Sutter Creek 95685
. 17655 Carpentero, # 18, Bellflower 90706
Don A. Geiger (327)
. . . 1260 La Brea Ln., Carpinteria 93013
Thomas J. Luby (444)
Donald B. McClary (35)
. 2315 Caminita Estero, San Diego 92107
David A. Poole, Jr. (241)
. . . 13202 Marshall Ln., Tustin 92680
. .. 5200 Irvine Blvd., #25, Irvine 92720
Mark E. Schrock (612) . .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"B" S
Bill I. Tool (87) · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·69
t., Vallejo 94590
·
A
nt~ony P. Wordlow (3) . . . . 1253 Monte Vista Wy. , Sacramento 9583 1
Farmdale Ave.,
David A. Moelle r (542) Advisor . . . . . . . . . . 7414 No.
North Hollyw ood 91605

U.S. CONSTITUTION OBSE RVAN CE
Stand ing Comm ittee

398

TOUR NAME NTOF ROSE SPAR ADEF LOAT
Speci al Comm ittee
Los Angeles 90010
George A. Ingram. Jr. (677) . . . 4357 Wilshire Blvd.,
Treas urer:
Robert C. Coe (322) · · .. 598-A W. Huntington Dr., Arcadia 91007-2432
Secre tary:
David~· Silver (614) . . . . . . . 4357 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angelenks 90010
St. Burba 91506
Frederick T. Alexander (450) . . . . . . 529 N. Lincoln
.. Sun Valley 91352
Ave
a
Oneid
9121
.
.
..
Robert Cordo bes (450) . . . .
Monica 90402
Santa
St.,
th
517-20
.
.
.
.
.
.
Roy~I Dano (307) · .. . . .
Hills 92367
and
Woodl
St.,
Eilat
24620
.
.
.
~avid H. Farlee (677) · . . . .
a 91011
Canad
La
Ave.,
r
Walma
5028
.
.
.
.
Obert N. Gross man (272) .
#165.
Blvd.,
aks
Gleno
11150
.
.
.
.
.
8)
Russell A. Mandell (542)(677)(36
91331
Hansen Hills
Thoma s J. McKimson (355)(780)
. . . . . . . . . 1203 Bienvenda Ave.,
Pacific Palisades 90272
Inglew ood 90305
#244,
ester.
Manch
W.
9500
.
John~ - Nocas (450) . . .
guez Hills 90220
Domin
#262,
a,
Victori
E.
2601
Don R1chabaugh (765) ..
Tarzana 91356
#37,
..
Blvd
nk
Burba
18102
(352)
Raymond B. Rosenbaum
s 90064
Angele
Los
Rd.,
ale
Northv
10304
.
.
.
.
Gaylo rd V. Roten (677)
91351
ry
Count
n
Canyo
Lily,
Cala
14704
.
Geor~e Semm ons (506)
93063
Valley
Simi
Dr.
Stell
3967
.
.
.
.
.
.
Mauric e Shannon (806)
92802
im
Anahe
.•
L~
Gail
1862
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Robert R. ~argo (273)
Glendale 91208
Grove r White (588) . . . . . . . . . . 2990 Canada Blvd.,

399

. . . . . . . . . . . . 2779 Carpenter Canyo n Ad.,
San Luis Obisp o 93401
St .. San Diego 92117
Arlene
. . . . . . . . 5125
Allen S. Beddo e (837)
Redding 96003-9076
Path,
erry
James R. Doty {676) . . . . 1962 Wineb
Nevada City 95959
Trail,
rest
Deerc
. . . . 10450
Charles V. Edward (13)
El Monte 91733
South
St.,
on
Ramon A. Figueroa {800) . . . 11014 Farnd
ood 91606
Hollyw
North
,
#3
Ave.,
Charles H. Foster (528) . . . 6006 Fair
95060
Cruz
Santa
487,
Park
se
. Paradi
Timothy J. Heer, Sr. (38)
91006
a
Arcadi
..
Ave
10th
So.
. . . . 1548
Steven M. Johns on (324)
. 11145 McDo nald St., Culver City 90230
Sam L. Levin (529) . . .
. . . . . P.O. Box 3503, Saratoga 95070
Robert W. Martin (511) .
. 2079 Stonewood Ct., San Pedro 90732
James J. Nash, Jr. (332)
Joshu a Tree 92252
John V. Neal (802) . . . . . . . . 7092 Sunset Rd.,
.. Pomo na 90804
Ln
ette
Marqu
11442
.
. .
Timothy Nunn (389)
Site 2G8 Sunset.
Rd.,
n
Kasso
-123
30000
.
George W. Petri (511)
Tracy 95376
da 94501
Alame
Blvd.,
de
Fernsi
1615
..
. .
Richard Pracht {396) .
92706
Ana
Santa
,
Ln.
Olive
N.
2302
.
.
.
.
Jay Rider {625) . . . .
94501
da
Alame
St..
High
1718
.
.
.
.
......
Josep h H. Ross (215)
94598
Creek
t
Walnu
Ln.,
ey
Killarn
Oren C. Rupert {756) . . . . . . 1122
90241
ey
Down
#116,
Ave.,
ount
Param
.. 10415
Donald G. Souza {699)
91607
ood
Hollyw
North
Pl..
Volena
5532
Ronald Stein (520) . .
, San Pedro 90731
Stephen S. Wallace (328) . . . 1108 North Meyler St.
San Diego 92123
St..
r
Skippe
3209
.
.
.
Lawrence A. Webster (696) . .
d Heigh ts 93285
Woffor
.•
Ave
rage
Ancho
.1820
Alden E. Westergren (827)

Bradley R. White (286)

~ARDENS' MANAGEMENT RETREATS

TRIAL REVIEW

Speci al Comm ittee

Stand ing Comm ittee

El Cajon 92020
Gary D. Miller (442) . . . . . . . . . . . 1947 Altozano Dr.,
ez 94553
Martin
St.,
"H"
245
..
.
.
.
.
Larry R. Ard (41) . . . . . . . . . .
o 94949
Novat
,
Dr.
Hills
Indian
155
Warren J. Blomseth (551) . . . . . . .
s 90274
Verde
Palos
o
Ranch
Dr.,
R. Stephen Doan (548) . . 6411 Seabryn
90802
Beach
Long
#4A,
..
William F. Stovall. Jr. (540) 1~5 E. Ocean Blvd

~ester W. Miller (327) . . . . . . . .. 5540 La Pasada, Long Beach 90815

Arcadia 91006
onald J. Drew (528) . . . . . . . . . 265 W. Foothill Blvd.
Napa 94558
d.,
R
Valley
Green
1393
.
.
.
.
Donald R. Fretz (99) . . . . .
90274
Verdes
Palo
o
Ranch
6279,
Box
P.O.
.
.
.
Thoma s C. Letcher (202)
92019
Cajon
El
Rd.,
a
Dehes
2282
.
.
~~mas M. S~gar (576) . . . . . .
. . . . . . 3740 Calavo Dr., Spring Valley 92077
vyn B._ Stein (35)
. . . . . . . . 16711 Addison St. , Encino 91316
Herbe rt Z1nman (322)
0

AouTH ORDERS
Speci al Comm ittee
San Jose 95135
David H. Denbo w (604) . . . . . . 3281 Terra Cana Dr.,
Birchw ood St. ,
364
..
an
Victor K. Armstrong, Jr. (591) Asst. Vice Chairm
Mante ca 95336
. P.O. Box 18220,
Thomas V. Baker (479) Asst. Vice Chairman . . . . . .
San Jose 95158

400

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Dea n F. Bradley (778) Asst. Vice Cha

irma n . .. . . .. 2755 W. Oran ge,
Ana heim 92804
Ivan Forb es (343) Asst. Vice Chairma
n .. 13444 Leac h St., Sylm ar 9134
2
Don ald A. Franke (13) Asst. Vice Cha
irma n . . .. . . 16459 Delm ar Wy.
,
Penn Valley 95946
Don ald A. Tayl or (771) Asst. Vice Cha
irma n . . . . . . . . 4545 Bon d St.,
San Dieg o 9210 9
Roy And erso n (180 ) . . . . . . . .
. 38 Wes tgate Cir., Santa Rosa 9540
1
Core n T. And rews (442) . . . . . .
. . . 5144 Fino Dr., San Dieg o 9212
4
Edm ond Berg eron (380) . 8472 Boo
th Bay Cir., Hun tingt on Bea ch 9264 6
Harm on S. Bige low (349)
.. 704 Wrin Ave., San Lean dro 94577
David Buc k (287) . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 2637 Irene Wy., Bish op 9351
4
Jam es S. Burb idge (656) . . . . . .
. . . . 1101 N. Steel Dr., Brea 9262
1
Ned 0. Cha pma n (614) . . . . . 2302
7 Del Valle, Woo dlan d Hills 91360
Gord on A. Craig (693) . 331 S. Sunr
ise Wy., #B-1 6, Palm Spri ngs 92262
Rob ert M. Dav enpo rt (192) . . . . .
. 398 Gro ve Ln. , Santa Barb ara 93105
And rew W . Disney (486) . .. . . .
. . . 3008 Cornell, Bakersfield 9330
5
Albe rt T. Efle (326) .. .. . .. P.O.
Box 5790 . Moh ave Valley, A2 86440
Dean D. Faia (16) . . .
7675 Gree nbac k Ln .. Citru s Heig hts
95610
Bennie E. Flint (530) .. .. . . ..
. . 3614 N. Virginia Ln .. Fres no 9372
6
Osc ar E. Fuentes (336) . . . . . . .
. . . . 24224 Birch Trail. Willits 95490
Ruben Gall egos (293)
. . . . . . . .. . 230 E. Mon roe. Oran
ge 92667
Hen ry F. Gillespie (307) . 11116 King
woo d Ave., Santa Fe Spri ngs 90670
David L. Harp er (658) . . . . . . .
18365 E. Clausen Ed., Turl ock 95380
Alva E. Hinn man (269) .. .. . ..
. . . 216 E. Estate Ave., Tulare 9327 4
John H. Hoo ley (209) . . . . . . .
1415 Ella St., San Luis Obis po 93401
Bruc e D. Joha nsen (691)
.. 619 W. Wei man Av e., Ridgecrest
93555
Rich ard L. Join es (280) .
. . . . . . . 704 Willis Ave., Madera
93637
Don ald A. Jour ney (612)
. . . 608 Los Oliv os Or .. San Gabriel
9177
5
Arth ur M . Low er (45) .
. .1077-Bth St., # 206. Cres cent City
95531
Floy d L. Merrell (373) . . . . . . ..
2266 Fox Hills Dr., Los Angeles 9006
4
Ken neth E. Miller (348) . .
. . .. . . 861 Ken woo d St., Upla nd
9178 6
Paul 0 . Mise r (618) . . . . . 1263
2 Welb y Wy. , Nort h Holl ywo od 9160
6
Ray mon d A. Parkes (626)
. . . . . . . . 161 "K" St., Chula Vista
91911
Xavier A. Pitassi (542)
. 10041 Hay venh urst Ave., Sepulveda
91343
Herb B. Putn am (448)
. .. 174 Bish op Dr., Con cord 94521
Gera ld D. Sco tt (810) .
Route 3, Box 878C, Woo dlan d 95695
Jam es J. Serrata (376)
. 4624 Rou sillo n Ave., Frem ont 94555
Cad man E. Sima rd (499)
8724 Elk Ridg e Wy., Elk Grov e 95624
H. Crai g Smit h (548) . .
. 3421 Less er Dr.. New bury Park 9132
0
Wall ace C. Stairs {377) .
5622 Fox Hills Ave., Bue na Park 9062
1
Ray mon d K. Stou t (149)
.. . . . 1909-4th St., Susanville 9613
0
Dee Swe aring en ( 111)
. . . . . . 4318 Kathy Ln.. Chic o 9592
6
Way ne True bloo d (61) .
24795 Woo dcar e Ave., Hay ward 9454
4

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

401

1263 Cov entr y Rd .. Vista 92084
Robert L. Wad e {687) . .. . .. . ..
1136 Wensley Ave .. El Cen tro 92243
oannY C. Won g {384)
.
Rou ndtre e Cir .. Diam ond Bar 91765
Richard B. Woo d (428) . . . ..
CON STIT UTIO NAL BOA RDS

17o3

Com men cing Octo ber 16, 1991
CAL IFOR NIA FRE EMA SON PUB LICA

TION
.
4 2 Sce nic Dr., Santa Barb ara 93103
Ralph H. Hea d (352) Ed1to: · · · : 9
. . . . 1043 Balb oa St.,
Wes Willo ughb y (331) Assistant Edit
or . . . . . .
Pacific Grov e 93950
1111 Cali forn ia St.. San Fran cisc o 9410
8
Stanley M. Caz neau x (191) · · ·
C rt nia St San Fran cisc o 94108
John L. Coo per Ill (467)
1111 at or
..
CAL IFOR NIA MAS ONI C FOU NDA TION
Dov erto n Square, Mou ntain View 9404
0
Donald C. Bri~gs (346) · · · 2713
2704 Hall mark Dr .• Belm ont 94002
Jam es B . Bou1ck Ill (139) · · · · · ·
· · B k St Sou th Pasadena 9103
0
Tho low 0. Cha n (322) · · · · · · 7~~
~e:
~
Parkway, Sacr ame nto 95823
Clyd e M. Cole, Jr. (499) · · · · ·
0 Ran cho Palos Verdes 90274
A. Stephen Doa n (548) .. 6411 Sea~Z~o
rE.ila t St ., Woo dlan d Hills 91367
David H . Farlee (677) · · · · · · · ·
G
W
# 104 Los Ang eles 90049
Edg ar L. Frie dma n (520) 809 Gretna
~~e~ra~~iew . Laguna Bea ch 92651
Don ald H. Harg rave s (708) . . . . .
1320 Mulb erry Ave., Upla nd 91786
Glen n C. John s?n (428) . . . . . .
~ 5S9 St. And rews Rd., Redd~ng 96003
Richard F. ~ocke (346) · · · · · · :
Lake Enc ino Dr., Enc ino 91316
Harv ey Mahn (~2) . · · · · · · · · 18082
1446 East Austin Wy., Fres no 93704
Rich ard A. Pan s (247) . . . . . .
.t St Suit e 403, San Fran cisc o 9410
3
Mar c R. Seidenfeld (344) 1145 ~~~
2 W~atherby Rd ., Los Alamitos 90720
Ronald A. She rod (699) · · ·
E
1 tus St San Fran cisc o 94132
Haro ld S. Stein , Jr. (370) .. .' 1777
uc4a5
~~ Mayfi~ld Ct., Frem ont 94536
Lest er S. McE lwai n (403) Advi sor .
..
CAL IFOR NIA MAS ONI C MEM ORI AL
TEM PLE
G
St # 102 San Fran cisc o 94133
Rob ert A. Bus h (435) . . . . 1070
~eenDr ., Ran cho Palos Verd es 90274
R. Stephen Doa n (548) .. 6411 Se: Sry~
an~field Ave., Los Angeles 90036
Geo rge A. Ingr am, Jr. · · · · · 60
·
t #90 5 San Fran cisc o 94104
Don ald B. McC aw (139) 235 Mon tgom
ery S '520 Willo w St .. Oxn ard 93033
Fran cis A. Russell, Jr. (3 41 ) · · · ·
· · · · . P.O. Box 781, Dela no 9321
6
William J. Tayl or, Jr. (309) . .
. . 50 Chu mali a St., San Lean dro 9457
7
Don ald E. Weisse (521) · · · · · · 3

2

k

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI A
Roy J. Henville (685) . . . . . . . . . 3046 Stoneley Dr., Pasadena 91107
Warren J. Blomseth (551) .. . . . . . 155 Indian Hills Dr., Novato 94949
Warren T. Buschmann {547) . . . . 1741 Calle Catalina, San Dimas 91773
William W. Dickson (450) . . . . .. . 14216 Haynes St., Van Nuys 91401
A. Stephen Doan (548) .. 6411 Seabryn Dr.• Rancho Palos Verdes 90274
. 530 Los Altos Ct., Santa Rosa 95403
Victor Howard (752) . . . .
. 4163 Andros Wy., Oceanside 92056
.
.
.
.
.
Vert B. Lobb (405)
1736 Mendocino Dr., Concord 94521
.
.
.
.
..
Eugene A. Perkins (448)
1444 Opechee Wy., Glendale 91208
..
.
.
.
..
Ernest A. Pooleon (652)
Fallbrook Ave., Fresno 93720-2792
E.
1761
.
.
.
.
Gerald A. Sharer (417)
Blvd .. #4A, Long Beach 90802
Ocean
E.
1635
(540)
Jr.
William F. Stovall.
Silverado Dr.. Lafayette 94549
N.
627
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
(480)
Alvin J. Weis
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT'
John M. Palmer, Jr. (315) . .. . . 12141 Ballantine Dr., Rossmoor 90720
. . . . 2974 Eagle Ave .. McKinleyville 95521
Milton M. Abbott, Jr. (79)
. . . . . . . . 37 Bower Pl. , Danville 94526
.
.
.
(724)
Aitken
G.
Douglas
Lomita Blvd .. #276, Harbor City 90710
1065
.
.
.
.
.
.
Donald Bell (373)
Gladiolus Dr .. Canyon Country 91351
29056
(813)
Robert F. Bunce
So. Blosser Rd .. #325, Orcutt 93455
4750
.
..
.
.
.
(264)
Ralph Burney
N. Guthrie. San Bernardino 92404
1659
..
..
(648)
John W. Cathey
2593 Sunrise Dr., Fairfield 94533
..
..
.
..
.
.
(789)
Carl R. Delaney
W. 155th St., Gardena 90247
1250
..
.
.
.
.
.
(372)
Donohugh
M. Shawn
Dr.. Madera 93637
Claremont
805
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
(280)
Gabrielson
L.
Virgil
City 94062
Redwood
#1,
..
Ave
Claremont
33
..
(168)
Geary
C.
Thomas
William Gershon (721) . . . . . . 21820 Ulmus Dr.. Woodland Hills 91364
Paul I. Greenwood (837) . . . . . . . 4510 Rolando Dr., San Diego 92115
Daniel P. Halstead, Jr. (175) . . . . . . . . . 92 Hilo Or .. Pittsburg 94565
. .. 107 Riverview Or.. Oroville 95966
Francis B. Holland (103) .
. P.O. Box 771, Fall River Mills 96028
William E. Horseman (250}
. 3532 Brentford Wy.. Modesto 95356
.
.
(675)
Howard
D.
Roger
A. Lester Hutchison (486) .. . . . . . . . 2809 Baylor, Bakersfield 93305
Richard W. Jeanson (585) .. .. 17976 Paseo Del Sol, Chino Hills 91709
Bruce D. Johansen (691} . . . .. 619 W. Weiman Ave .• Ridgecrest 93555
James S. Kemper (825) . . . . . . . . 1343 Vernal Ave., Fremont 94539
Clarence L. Lambing (331} .. 62 Country Club Gate, Pacific Grove 93950
Harlan D. Lasley (281) .. .. .. 3735 Drybread Rd .. Cottonwood 96022
.. . .. . 4937 Brampton Ave., Bell 90201
I. Samuel McWilliams (483)
. 4403 Hillview Wy., Rohnert Park 94928
.
.
.
.
.
.
(126)
Harlan J . Mohn
Swallow Ave., Fountain Valley 92708
8751
..
..
(380)
Nelson
Norman
H.
Viento Vall e, Escondido 92025
20809
(325)
Sr.
Patterson,
E.
Kenneth
California St. , Campbell 95003
266
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
(676)
Pfirrman
C.
Ralph

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

403

J. Norman Roberts (621) .. . . . . . . .. .. . . . 9752 S. Bartley Ave.,
Santa Fe Springs 90670-3116
Ave.• San Dimas 91773
Darwood
N.
601
.
.
.
.
.
.
Jack M. Rose (428) . .
Dr.. San Jose 95129
Bela
4808
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
W. Russel Rudden (669} . .
Sumerset 95684
Rd.,
Mine
Johnson
7321
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
W.C. Temple (43)
Heights 95621
Citrus
Wy.,
Westchester
6934
.
..
Douglas S. Veale (732}
Madera 93687
..
St
"J"
South
224
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
(280)
C. Ray Whitaker

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

404

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS

(All Brethren listed are Past M ast ers unless otherwise indicated )
Lodge
Registered
No
Me '-.
m.,.,r
1
R.W. Torrey, M. .
R.H. Nichols, s.w.
H.W. Jack
H.C. Clausen
· . Simpson, Sec.
JC
D.G. Hively
A. Miller, Jr.
R.J. Modolo
J.M. Stokes
H.A. Shuffleton Ill, M.
B.R. Carter, Sec.
R.B. Eaton
M.E. Locke
H.O. McDaniel, Jr.
D.W. Godd M
J.D.

2

3

Miieage

All

ow.

· · · None

8

1

8

. . . . 49.06

19

Lehnh~rr. ·s.·w. · · · · 18 92

20

J.J. Kerns, M.
C.P. Daly, S.W. . . . .. . .. 29 .48
A.A. Braida
F. Bolte
L. Morris

9

10

2

1

13

14

16

No.

17

O.D. Russell, lnsp.
G.C. Young, lnsp.
AP. Wordlow
C.E. Graham M
7 92
E. Lopez, S.W. ·
· · · · · · · ·
A. Porter , 1nsp.
P. Bernardo

5

Lodge

C.E. Waltz
A. Salas, S.W. . . .
26 40
J.C. Reynolds. J.W.
· · ·
·
P.R. Waite, Sec.
C.L. Houser
R.M. Ford, M. .
11 00
·
H.J. Becker, J.W. · · · · · · ·
G.C. Hesse, Sec.
L.B. Mark, P.G.M.
C.D. Mills M
. . . . . 10.34
' . . . .
R.J. Nance, Jr., J.W.
S.T. Jones
A.G. Lucier
J.B. Carlisle 111, M.
32 56
LE. Wright, S.W. · · · · ·
·
G.R. Harper, J.W.
DA Franke
F.R. Furnish , M.
E.L Bennett, s.w · · · · · · · 9 ·90
W. Becker, Sec
A.O. Canet M
' · · · · · · · · · 26 · 40

23

24
25
26

27
30

32
33

35

Registered

•
Miieage.
Allow.

Member
R.J. Brown, Sec.
R. Van Wye
D.F. Greensides, M. · · · · . None
H N
· ahoum, lnsp.
AP. Bayacq
R. Lallemand
Z. Schperberg
Not Represented
F.B. Batty, Jr., M . . . . . . . . 17.16
J.R. Eichbaum, S.W.
J.A. Linnerman, Sec .
W. Dunbar
R.L Snyder
18 92
J.T. Ansell M
R.V.
·

Ander'so~, s.·w. · · · · · ·

R.A. Wilson, J.W.
R.R. Masterton, lnsp.
R.L Boulware
E.P. Hardiman
P.A. Hardiman
GE
M. Fazio
S .' M. . . . . . . . . . 31.46
· . m1th, S.W.
K.W. Saver
S. Parson ' M . . . . . . . . . . 36.30
R. Hender, S.W.
30 36
C.T . Powers, Jr., M.
J.M. Mitchell, M. • •·. .
· .
· .· .· 29.04
·
M.P. Baker, S.W.
J. Roberts, J.W
E. Tuner, Sec.
M.L Purdy, lnsp.
A.O. West, P.G.M.
D.P. Dassonville
• . . . . . . 58.08
J.R. Weil, J.W.
C. Erikson, Sec.
· · · . . . None
P.A. McHale, M.
.
W
· B. Bellamy Ill, S.W.
J Jo
· uganatos, J.W.
LL. Aslanian
L Messer
R.W. Moore
H.S. Swierstra
G.M. Travis
. 25.08
M.J. Bernsdorf. J.W.
' 32.34
D. Gibson, M . . . .
C.R. Thomas. S.W.
M. Ulshoeffer, J.W.
J.F. Kohler
J.R. Clark, M
.. . . . . . 114.84

405

Mileage
Registered
Mileage Lodge
Allow.
Registered
Member
No.
Allow.
.. . 11 .88
Member
M.K.
Robinson,
M.
57
E. Behunin, S.W.
R.S. Hollingshead, S.W.
J.R. Hughes. J.W.
H.P. Adams
J .H. Leach, Sec .
E.C. Foster
J.R. Levitt, P.G.M.
58 W.H. Miller, S.W. . . • .. • . 18.92
W.C. Huntsinger
C. Marler, J.W.
R. Mansfield
D.L. Allison, Sec .
D.B. Mcclary
R.S. Watanabe , lnsp.
C. Rogers
R.C . Ryan
M.B Ste in
J .N. Stair
. 38.06
G. Winstanley
59 T. Scruggs, S.W. . .
. 49.28
37 D.E. Cumberland, M. . .. . 69.74
60 B.S. Stuart, M.
J.D. Ostrowski, SW.
R.S. Andrews, lnsp.
. None
R.H. Underwood , lnsp.
61 J.K. Petersen. Sr., M .
38 R.R. Robbins , M . . . • . . . . 15.84
V. Carano
M.S. Hasey, S.W.
D.D. Crossman
B.C. Borkaw, J.W.
G.E. Montgomery
T.J. Heer, Sr.
W.W. Trueblood
. 24 20
V. Land
64 WA Killius, S.W.
40 R.N. Capparelli, M. . . . . . 18.92
65 Not Represented
. 17 .16
M.S. Rice. S.W
68 E.C. Bartlett, M.
C.D. Frank , Sec.
D.A. Bartlett, S.W
R.L. Braden
R.W. Church . J.W.
C.E. Clause
J. Redd ick , Gr.Ty
A.L Jeffery
W.E. Toler, lnsp .
R.W. Main
J.L. Baker
W.D. Thompson
K.B. Harman
41 J.F. Fulwider, M.
. . . . . . 7.48
J.T. Kelley
J.L. Overstreet, J.W.
E.E. Kendall
J.D. Beringer~Sec.
70 J.V. McCutcheon. M.
. 25 96
78 D.W. Lindenau , E.R
. 27 .50
L R. Ard
G.W. Taylor
VA Kuellmer , Sec.
.. . , . 88.66
42 T .F.W. Hall, M
79 R.J. Ande rson , S.W.
. 62.48
C. Enache, S.W.
LS. Mengel II, Sec.
S.R. Goldstein, J.W.
M.M . Abbott . Jr.
. . . 26.84
80 A. Hansen . M.
E.C. Levy. Sec.
43 G.T. Ryerson. Sr., M.
. .. . 28.60
S. Jaber, Jr .. Sec .
E.H. Purington, S.W.
M.E. Mace
. .. 18.48
81 J.A. Salisbury, M.
B.J . Noel, J.W.
J.E. CalhOun
C.L. Noring . Jr .. S.W.
W.C. Tem ple
J.G. Raney . J.W.
45 L.J. Moore. S.W.
81.18
M.H. Randford . Sr., lnsp.
G.T. Hopper, lnsp.
G.D. Scott
1980
46 C.V. Hewitt , S.W.
84 G.E. Blinn, S.W.
. 40.92
50 Not Respresented
87 D.R. Azcarraga . M.
.6.82
51 JW Bell, M.
29 92
D.L. Geh rke , S.W
C .K. Mell
H.A. Doyel , Jr ., J.W.
C.L. Sheare r
K.J. Brisbin. lns p .
. . . . . . 10.78
55 R.L. Lowdon, M.
A.G . Kincaid
K. Abernathy, SW .
J . Olson
J.E. Buck, J.W.
D.M. Thomas
D.R. Eickhoff, Sec.
B. I. Tool
89 WA Peardon . M. .. .. . . . 30 58
D.E. Wolfe
56 Not Represented

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodg e
Regi stere d
Milea ge Lodg e
R'e glste red
No.
Mlle• ge
Mem ber
Allow .
No.
Mem ber
Allow .
91 H.V. Gill, J.W .
73.04
S . Masf es
R.A. Lovell
P. Owya ng
93 F. Oglet ree, SW.
14.52
S .P. Snoe k
A.V. Ange l , Sec.
S. Glase nk-no n mem ber
95 B.C . Klotz . M.
28.60
122 V.L. Trega skis, E.R.
· .. None
L. Sarac ino, S.W.
R.M. Hind s
L.E. Daniels
D. Mc Fetrid ge
98 A.A. Simo net, JW.
44 .66
J.E. Sherr iff
R.W. Lorin g, Sec.
123 W.A. Eaga n, lnsp.
. None
99 M.W. Nelson, M.
28.16
W.E. Caldw ell
K.N. Coop er, S.W.
124 J.R. Sarge nt, S.W.
. 36.30
C.D. Faulk enbe rry, JW.
T.E. Nonn ewan , J .W.
D.R. Fretz
126 D.E. Ciant ichi, M. . . . . . . .
12.10
J . Silve ira
T.L. Nelso n, SW.
101 H.E. Foste r, M.
32.78
J .E. Whee ler, Sec.
103 J.B. Hollin gswo rth, SW.
32.56
D.C . Cooli dge
C .R. Finwi ck, J.W.
H.J. Mohn
R.S. Suthe rland , lnsp .
127 A. Dege nhard t , M . . . . . • . None
F.B. Holla nd
R.K. Kami lli, Sec.
D.R. Mahl um
0
. Goeb el
104 C.E. Bake r, M.
91 .52
128 R.L. Batem an . M.
. . . . . . 49.28
G.E. LeBe ck, Sec.
J .R. Neil, S.W.
106 M . W . Alcor n , S.W.
64 .24
K.L. Sheff ield, JW.
110 J.C. Reyn olds, M.
19.80
J .M. Sherr il
DA Spen ce, Sec.
129 OW. Parks , E.R.
. 27.06
111 D.r. Death erage , M.
3564
131 W. G. Jay, M . . . .
• 20.90
D.E. Hunt er, SW.
J.A. Hans ley, S.W.
TA Hill, J.W.
D.S. Clark , JW.
T. Meria m , P.G.M .
J .R. Swee ney. Sec .
C.H. Alexa nder
H.W. Denn ey, G.P.
J.W. Matth ews. Jr.
132 SW. Ande rson, M.
. 49.72
D .E. Swea ringe n
134 K.D . Hardy , M.
. 11 .88
112 R.L. Brigh t, M.
23.54
A. M. John son, S.W.
DA Chris tense n, S.W.
C .E. Moon ey, Sec.
R.L. Noe, lnsp.
L.D. Callis on , lnsp.
113 L.W. Walk er. S.W.
None
M.L. Esh
W .L. Unds ey, Sec.
W.W. Price
F. Kao
135 D.B. Mape s
. None
117 R. Fosh ee , M.
... .. 18.92
136 S.H. Chan , M.
. None
K . Hickm an, S.W.
G.S. Chan . S.W.
R.E. Hugh es, JW.
K.P. Chas e, JW.
120 J.B . Hartm an. M. ... ...
None
H. Chan
F. Loui, SW.
W. Chew
M.V. Kapla n, Sec.
J.J. Dunn
A.A. Kling er, G.S.
M.V. Ivano ff
W .J . Morri s, lnsp.
D. Milkie r
C.J. Bellm an, Jr.
H .S. Stein , Jr.
I. Betz
W. Yip
K.C. Birnb aum
139 L. E. Laidl aw, M.
. .. None
HW. Cahn
C.L. Potter, S.W.
L.B. Froom in
G. Trom bulak , JW.
L.I. Gold kind
J.A. Afflec k, Sec.
l.S. Madf es
D.B. McCa w. P.G.M .

... ... ..

..

. . ..

... ...

407

Regi stere d
Milea ge
Milea ge Lodg e
Regi stere d
Allow .
Mem
No.
ber
Allow
.
Mem ber
. .. None
169 W.C. Terrel, M.
Eric L. Alber t
A.J. Nikas . s.w.
H. Alber t
R.P. Roberts, J .W .
J.B. Bouic k Ill
R.R. Lintne r
W.J . Harlo w, Jr.
173 G.A. Brow n. M. ·
G. Lazor isak
• · · · · · 22 ·00
D.R. Taylor, J.W.
S.C. Lee
174 F.J. Cook e, SW. . • . . . . .
W .W. Miller
27 .94
175 H . Peter son, M. · · • · · · · · 10 2
F.J. Rugg iero
· ·
o. Jacks on, JW.
G .M. Sned don
J.A. Crow , Sec.
20.24
141 L.L. Ervin . E.R. · · ·
O.P. Halst ead, Jr.
19.58
143 w. Raym ond, SW.
U.E. Com pomi zzo. non-m embe r
o.D. Upde graff, lnsp.
178 JW. Ditto, Jr., M . . · · · · · · 99 88
None
4
H
.S.
Liebe
rman
·
, M.
14
179 W.L. Tubb s, M. · · · · · · · · 34 32
M.A. Reed , SW.
·
D.N.
Wade . lnsp.
L.G. Sher man, Jr., J.W.
. . . . . 836
180 K.Kn obela uch, M.
T.C. Rose. Sec.
F.J. Talm adge , SW.
M. Schre dle, lnsp.
W.A. Kelle y
S.C. Riley
c.w. MacN ichols
R.H. Rolfe
E.J. Moge l . Sr.
J.F. Volle rs
S.C . Olms ted
K. Wong
. . . . . . 11.44
151 P.v . Sund quist , M. · · · · · · 13· 86
145 J.G. Baum , M .
182 J .M. Mark usen, lnsp. · · · · · None
C.E. Miles , SW.
183 T.O. O 'Neill, E.R. · · · · · · · 25 74
R.G. Graver, lnsp.
·
l 84 Not Repre sente d
K.L. Chas tain
185 H .C . Burgr aff , M . · · · · · · · 28 38
. . . . 25.74
l46 R.L. Mann ing, M.
186 Not Repre sente d
H .L. Went worth , lnsp.
187 GW. Gom s, Sec . . . ••. . .
None
e .C . Marche6Chi
E.M. Ames , lnsp .
147 C .E. umgd on, SW. .
58.52
188 G.L. DeVo re , Jr., M. . . . ..
None
149 H. Binkl ey. SW. · · · · · · · 59 40
·
J .H . Boeh rer . SW.
L. Loug h, JW.
J . Carna vali
J . Loug h
J. Ca1anho
R. Stout
c. DeWitt
. . . . . 37 .84
1 50 w.v. Spen ce, M.
J . Kahn
A.A. Frink , Sec.
R. Mass ingill
R.H. Pelha m . lnsp .
C.B. Morg an
N. BartOO
C. Ratkovich
25
30
161 A.E. Buss , E.R. ·
• · · · · ·
·
J.A. Stohr
R.W. Buss man
B. Arnauric. non-m embe r
164 C.K. Smith , Sec.
. .
None
190 R.F. Locke , Jr .. E.R.
7
26
167 E.L Pedri ck , M.
· · 50· 60
· · · · · · · ·
191 J.R. Sanc hez, M . . . . . . . .
None
J. DeVore. SW
R.F. Lowr y, SW .
W. Richa rds, JW.
R.W. Trout man . Jr., Sec .
w.J. Wilso n. Sec.
S.M . Cazn eaux , O.G.M .
A. Oonn ici , lnsp.
W .R. Cons table
W .R. Atche r
J.E. Marte ns
. . . . . . . 5.72
168 A.A. Ruck er. M
J .R. Polk
H . John son. SW.
R.R. Spea r
R. Coop . JW.
w M. Vand erbilt
H.J .V. Baxte r. lnsp .
.. . . . 74.80
192 M. Marq uis. Jr., M.
H .C. Daws on
R. Lehm an. Jr ., SW
T.C. Gear y
T. Kene fick . JW.
A.G. Singl ey

Lodg e

No·

Mileage
Lodge
Registere d
Miieage
Registere d
Allow.
Member
No.
Member
Allow.
. • 51 .04
209 W.S. Howell, M .
H.F. Lewis, A.G.S.
T.D. Hawkinso n, J .W.
N .B. Chamber lain
D.H. Wasson, lnsp .
193 J.H. Spittler, S.W. . . . . . . 60.28
.. .. 11 .00
210 D.G. Meyers, M.
L.A. Nicolson , J.W.
B. Weller, S.W.
W .L. Hamilton
J.E. Grove, J.W.
194 D.W. Wilson, M.
. . . . . . . 8 .14
P.H. Lyew
M .J. &own , S.W.
B . Wilson
M . Duncan, J.W.
211 A. Monaco , M .
. 20.90
J.E. Nett
. None
212 R.T. Gulen, M .
195 R. Bettencou rt, M . ...... 17. 16
C.L. Altaro, S.W.
W . Weber, S.W.
J .R. Bautista, J.W.
R.W. Baker, Sec.
M.L. Sigua, Sec .
J.B . Haden
S.C . Dela Pena. lnsp.
49.28
196 D.J . Hebert, M .
E.V. Bernal
J.E. Stokes, J.W.
P. Caturay
93.50
198 P. Hunt, M.
L. Ingersoll
H. Donovan, J .W .
G.B. Leano
199 Not Represen ted
42.02
C .P. Molina
200 C . Daley, M .
C .J. Palmer
E. McMills, S.W.
14.30
R.J. Policarpio
201 E.C . Still , E.R ••
D.M . Sotto
R.C. Smith, Sec .
X.F. Zarata
88 .66
202 D. Gary, M .
. . . . . 80.52
214 A.A. Riekki, S.W.
S. Sciortino, S.W.
G.N. Fitch, Sec.
G . Shirikjian , J.W.
H.L. Maynard , P.g .M.
M.D. Rosenber ger, Sec.
J.W. Joe , Jr.
D.R. Patterson , lnsp.
. . . . . None
215 J .H. Ross, S.W .
T. Boles
W .H. Amberg
W . Bottorff
. 25.74
217 L. Green. E.R.
H. Henschel
. . 8.80
218 L.J. Garbutt, M.
C . Jackson
L.W. Belknap
T.C. Letcher
•. 91 .96
220 H.R. Udott, M.
R.M. Martinez
8.A. Wright, S .W.
J .L. Nelson
E. Echmalia n , J.W.
E. Roos
O.J. Paul, Jr.
R. Waterhou se
. 94.60
221 H.c. Ferguson . M .
S. Wright
. 22.88
222 J .L. Bailey, M .
L. Yaphe
T.T. Narasaki, S.W.
G .H . Caskey, non-mem ber
N.R. Bryant
. . . 23.60
203 J.L. Nicolaide s. M.
23.76
G.A. Carter
204 A. Raney, M.
K.W. Kessel
R.J. Brubaker, J.W.
H .L. Midkiff
L.W. Blakensh ip
224 J.E. Goodwin , M. . . . . . . . 63.58
F. Roel, Jr.
S .D. Sack, S.W.
36 .96
205 R.0. Brown , J.W.
V.O. Casper, J.W.
20.02
206 C.W. Beamer, M .
A.O. VanZant, Sec.
D.A. Huskins. S.W.
O.L. St. Oaire, A.G.T.
R.M . Ingle, Jr., J.W.
R. A. Griffith
A .M. Abid , lnsp.
L.D. Olson
207 M.8 . Tatum, M.
. .. 94.82
225 P .J. Bacon . M.
. . . . . . None
P.A. Louttit. S.W.
G .T. Taylor, S.w .
G .H. Garrison
E.C. Roulette . Sec.
. . . . . . . None
208 N .G . Stanphill

Lodge
No.

.

..

..

.. .

....

.

409

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

408

. .... .

Mileage
Registere d
Mll. .ge Lodge
Registere d
Allow.
Member
No.
Allow.
Member
H.T. Thiel , S.W.
G.R. Anderson
K.E. Bain, Sec.
N.W. Dunlap, Jr.
S.P. Vasilovich
E. Evans
Not Represen ted
245
C. Langel
. .. 95.92
N.R. A.shley, M.
246
None
226 G.K. Dress
H.E. Dickinson . Sec .
N.W. Grush
. . . 40.26
247 H.A. McCarga r, M .
15.84
228 J .M. Soto, M .
S.W.
Sotirion,
.G.
W
H.E. Moore, A.G.L.
J. Higgins, J .W .
. . • • . 6 .82
229 K.D. McKendry , M .
W.M . Collins, Sec.
J.H. McKasso n. S.W.
K. Emmert
J.W.
Snell,
J.C.
A.A. Paris
E.C . Fraser, Jr., lnsp.
248 Not Represen ted
WA Thompso n, lnsp.
250 W.E. Horsema n . • . . . . . . None
H.a. Budding
254 B.E. Alvord, M. ... . . . . . 47.74
GA Heinzwan
8.R. Galloway , S.W.
L. T. McKasso n
K.E. Benton , Sec.
29.48
230 EA Becker, Jr., M .
C.L. Hamilton
J. Stowe, S.W.
M.D. Saners
ted
Represen
231 Not
. . 46.86
. Paseual , M.
J.d
255
232 Not Represen ted
2068
..
M.
Kirsten,
J.
256
16.28
233 D.D. Dearing , M.
.R. Schmer, S.W.
W
A.J . Friedlund , J.W.
A.O. Wright
J.D. Foster , Sec.
R.C. Ross, M. . . . . . . . • . 25.08
258
E.L. Hoffner
J .R. Sawyer, S.W.
C.K. Sakai
K.W. Flint, J .W.
56.10
M.
.
Chan
S.R.
234
G .C . Westerve lt, M . ..... 101.20
259
D.B. Barrett, S.W.
R.N. Cody, S.W.
235 Not Represen ted
D.F. Cooley, J.W.
.66
22
.
.
M
Jon6s,
236 M.S.
R.R. VonPertz , Sec.
J.G. Westlake, S.W
S.L. Channon , P.G.M
A.L. McNew, J.W.
W .H. Price, P.G.M .
R.C. Booth
C.G. Riemer
.. .. .. 51.92
237 J.T. Miller, M.
R.C. Taylor
J.W.
Hodam.
.
G
. 63.14
W .O. Zandonat ti , M .
262
240 Not Represen ted
S.W.
,
DeSanto
R.J.
9526
241 R.T. Potts, M.
C .J. Allen, J.W.
D.A. Smith, J.W .
J.W. Pauson, Jr., lnsp.
74.80
242 A. Yamada, M .
C .R. Thompso n
A.A. Martin, S.W.
• . . . 5 1.62
A.G. Dixon , M. ...
264
C.R. Nockey, J.W.
LaGrange , S.W.
S.Q.
A.M. Martin , lnsp .
H.E. Hawes, J.W .
D.W. May
Jackson, G . Chap .
J.
5.94
.
. . . .
243 D.S. Cook, M .
C.W. Floyd
.
J.W
S. Tamez.
A.C. West
W.E . Wittenber g, Sec.
. 34. 10
265 R.H . Gollnick, S.W.
A.C . Marsh
J.w.
J.R. Shields.
W.T. Smith
. 19.36
267 C.R. Parks, M.
L.L. Stark
J.E. Griffith , J.W.
J .H. Vandenb os
' .. 49.94
269 D.E. Higdon, S.W.
8.C. VonKons ky
J. Hammon d, P.G.Lect.
R.T. Williams
A.E. Hinman
J.A. Yeoman
• 90.42
272 D.A. Hellem, M.
None
244 A.S. Mora, M.

Lodge
No.

0

•I••

Io

0

o

o

..

. ... .

.

.....

..

. .. . .. ..

. ......

410

Miieage
Registered
Registered
Miieage Lodge
Allow.
Member
Member
Allow.
No.
K.R. Jones, Sr., S.W.
G.J . Gabriel, S.W.
R. Orrell, J.W.
H.L. Randall, Sec.
R.D. Sappington, lnsp.
J.E. Kracow. Sec.
. 46.42
294 R.N. Rouch, E.R. • .
R.L. Villalobos, lnsp.
R. Alcorn
J.L. Nicholas, Sec.
. 15.18
295 F. D. Alban , E.R.
C.E. Burr
114.84
296 Q.W. Wren , J.W.
J.L. Woyle
J .P. Graff
E.R. Mason, Sec.
. . . . . • • None
297 E.F. Hill , Sec.
J. Rose
F.P. Felix , lnsp.
G. Sognalian
. . 9.90
• . . . 94.60
299 D.L. Clifford , M.
273 RA Balling, M.
V.B. Ramirez, S.W.
H.E. Woodworth, S.W.
E.1. Capps, J.W.
A.B. Cooper, J.W.
F.A. Chapman
T.T. Sargent
C.A. Zercher
. .. . . 54.56
274 E. Bufford, S.W.
300 J .0. Harbison, M. . . . . . 101 .20
CA Galbraith, Sec.
G.K. Monroe, Sec.
L.C. Bair
20.90
W.H. Rogers, lnsp.
275 JA Fonda, M. . . .
. . . . . . 95.48
301 G.F. Sauer, M.
H.H. Boggs , Sec.
43.56
J .0. Beck, S.W.
277 R.V. Starr, M. . . .
W.H. Dunston
B.D. Baker, Sec.
. 90.42
V.C. Owen
278 D.F. Morehead, M .
302 Not Represented
H.F. Roggelin, J.W.
. . . . . . 54 .78
47.08
303 R.W. Howard, M.
279 J.J. Robinson, M .
R.A. Jones, J.W.
W.T. Bernstein , S.W.
304 D.F. Moore. Jr., M. . . . . .• 44.88
M .D. Brown , J.W.
T.P. Tartaglia , lnsp .
280 D. Schneider, S.W. . . . .• 35.42
J. Joines, J.W.
305 R.B. Lane, M. • • • . . . . . . 93.50
K.C. Lane, S.W.
R.L. Joines
A. Torres. Jr., lnsp.
C.R. Whitaker
. 4532
306 Not Represented
281 D.B. McWhirter, S.W.
. .. 88 .22
. 115.72
307 E.J. Pinkos, M. . .
283 R.C. Hubbard. M.
N.W. Thompson , Sec.
J .D. Elliott, S.W.
C.L. Passarelli , lnsp.
E. Pangilinan, J.W.
. . . . . . 44.66
308 Not Represented
286 R.M. Mann , M.
. . 56.98
309 C.E. Kasiner, J.W.
J.M. Storlie
W.J. Taylor, Jr.
B.R. White
. 59.62
310 H.E. Beale, E.R.
287 J . J. Witham , S.W. . . . . . . 84.70
P.M. Price, lnsp.
J .A. Ullefjeld, Sec.
. None
312 V.J. Fisher
D. Buck
• 103.84
313 E.E. Whitney, M. . . . . . . 72.82
289 J.L. Moriarity, S.W.
. 99.00
. 8886
314 F.A. Ahrems, J.W.
290 K.D. Steele, M. . .
. 91.96
315 KA Mogg, M.
R.W. Meier, S.W.
J.V. Goodson, S.W.
R.P. Esquivel, J.W.
J .P. Masson, lnp.
H.H. Hand, G.O.
J .M. Palemr. Jr.
W.A. Burkett
J.B. Parker
J. Madrid
. . .. 43.56
84 .04
316 Ritchie , M.
291 D.R. Sullivan, S.W.
D.E. Olivier
J.P. Montgomery, S.W.
11 .66
LA Coffin , J.W.
292 HA Lewis, M. . .
C.C. Dawson , Sr. , Sec.
M.R. Hopper, S.W.
. .. 111 . 10
317 R.H. Wright, S.W.
W.F. Buffington, Sec.
W.H. Hines, Sec.
293 V.C. Campbell , M . . .. . . . 95.26

Lodge
No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

411

Mileage
Registered
Miieage Lodge
Registered
Allow.
Member
No.
Allow.
Member
CA Oden , Sec.
R.E. Tomes
W.R. Bergener
. .. 88.66
320 B.A. Krcelic, M.
B.A. McDonald
J.H. Creekpaum , S.W.
. . . . 88.66
335 G. Balian, S.W.
R.T. Smith, J.W.
Perechodnik, J.W.
J.B. Allen, Sec.
L.R. Carlston , lnsp.
R.A. Marsh , lnsp.
. • . . . None
336 O .E. Fuentes 11, M..
D.F. Anders
GA Amaral , S.W.
• . 8.58
321 R.T. Page , M.
W.E. Corthers, J.W.
H.F. Bordley
J.W. Hansford
. 90.20
322 G.L. Grant, M .
337 Not Represented
T.J. Venegas, S.W.
107.80
338 D.E. Bittle, S.W.
R.C . Coe
. 94 .60
339 W.N. Wagnor, S.W.
T.J. Davis
D.R. Alexander, Sec.
D.B. Leonard
M.L. Brubaker. lnsp.
A.A. Montague
341 P.O. Slaughter, S.W. . . . .. 82.72
H. Zinman
J.S. Perry, J.W.
R.P. Lewis, non -member
J.F. Lowe, lnsp.
. . 90.86
323 D.K. Chilson, M.
FA Russell, Jr.
WA Edmondson
. .• .. 83. 16
343 L.G. Avicola, M.
. . 111 .76
325 T.R. Handell, M.
M.L. Montana, S.W.
V.M . Beltran. J.W.
D.L. Ross, J.W.
R.M. Carlson
J .R. Winslow, Sec .
V.B. Lobb
I. Forbes
. . . . . 94.38
327 B.R. Wilkerson, M.
R.D. Shunn
K.P. Elliott
M. Tuttle
DA Geiger
• . . . None
344 T.L. Hobson, M.
G.W. Holton
S. Sheff, J.W.
L.W. Miller
U.G. Patropulos, G.L.
L.A. Wheeler Ill
R.L. Kramer . lnsp.
. • • . . . 91 .08
328 K.C. Brown . M.
M . Seidenfeld, lnsp.
S.S. Wallace, S.W.
M. Baer
B.W. Shaw, J .W.
S.J . Dean Ill
GA Anderosn, lnsp.
M .W. Eberhardt
. . . 88.44
329 V. Clafin , M. . . . .
G.G. Hawxhurst
P. Caraco. Sec.
C .U. Patropulos
J.C. Bourguignon. lnsp.
L.M. Stritenberger
. .. 26.84
331 R.E. Ballew, Sr .. M.
. . .. . . 7.04
346 W.E. Ellison , M.
P.M. Hoffman, Sec.
E.H. Nickell, Sec.
H.R. Amos, lnsp.
D.C. Briggs
C.L. Lambing
A.K. Hartsog
W.B. Solglow
. . . . . . None
347 W.J . Finck. S.W.
. . . . . . 94 .60
332 S.S. Todd , M.
F. Postmus. J.W.
P.R. Hiess, S.W.
M.E. Gearhart, Sec.
R.d. Watson, J.W.
E.P. Margherio, A.G.L.
E. Holland, Jr .. Sec.
G. Pierce
J. McDonald, G.Qr.
A.C. Rogers
J .D. Holland
348 N.R. Snyder. M. • • . . . . . 99.88
M.J. Logan
A.J. Toth Ill, J.W.
J.J. Nash, Jr.
G.M. Cellar. Sec.
R.S. Wiederanders
J .C. Nolan, lnsp.
. . . . . • 93.72
334 RA Evans, M.
WA Sullivan, lnsp.
J. Morgan, S.W.
A.B. Gresham
J.W.
Watson,
T.

Lodge
No.

z.

Lodge
Registe red
Miieage
Registe red
Mlle•ge
Member
No.
Allow.
Member
Allow.
J.J . Ramirez , S.W.
W .M. Rainbolt, Sr.
M.J. AJdershot, Sec.
J .R. Savcier
None
368 J .N. Warrine r, M.
. . . . . 88.()()
349 R.L. Williams , M.
H.A. Missakia n, S.W.
K.M. Hathawa y, S.W.
E.R. Brink, J.W.
R.J. Hustings, J.W.
M.E. Wollam. Jr ., Sec.
W.G. Skilling , Sec.
P.B. Stone
K. Holstein
369 N.M. Schultz, M. ..
. . . 96.36
. . . ' 88.22
351 W.N. Murray, M.
H.M . Foster, S.W.
0 .L. Shaw, J .W.
F.R. Maridue na, J.W.
M.A. Alarcon, Sec .
J .R. Dymond , Sec .
. . 88.66
352 J .D. Woolley, M.
T.B. Fach
Y .M. Alva , S.W.
J .P. Farley
R.M . Hamilton , J.W.
A.O. Roberts
D.W. Litsinger , Sec.
370 H.M. Pallas, S.W. . . . . . . . None
R.H. Head. P.G .T.
M.C. Pallas, J.W.
R.M. Hackert, lnsp.
K.R. McLea, Sec.
A.G. Kahn
T. Aivazain
W . Kludjian
M . Balopou los
R.B. Rosenba um
G . Corlew
N .D. Stanley
H.O. Hirsch
. .. 8536
355 R.C. Ricci, M.
T. Lyau
J.A. Shubb, S.W.
V. Mabry
J. Gomez, J.W.
W .F. Poynter
A.A. Cummin gs, Sec.
W. Ross
J .C. Champio n
... . 91 .74
372 F.G . Davis, M .
M.E. Honig
A.A. Morrisse tte, S.W.
D.M . Monson
F.R. Garst, J.W.
T. Schuma n
A. Crist
M.G. Short
M.S. Oonohug h
D. Thornton
P.T. Oonohug h
.
.
None
.
.
.
Sec.
Born,
P.A.
356
A.A. Fritz
R.K. Mills
. . . 88.66
373 W.C. Husted, M .
B.A. Stocking
D.E. Waymen t, S.W.
. . 93.06
357 R.E. Krull , M. . . .
D.R. Bell, J.W.
O.E. Nelson , S.W.
F.L. Nerrell
J .A. Chastain , Sr., lnsp.
. . . . . None
376 P.R. Stegman , M .
E.A. Robinso n , A.G.L.
J.J. Serrata, S.W.
. . 10.78
362 A.G. Taylor, M . . .
M .C . Kovalich , J.W.
0 . Nozawa , S.W.
K.D. Knight, Sec.
J.R. Herriges . J.W.
D.E. Strand, lnsp.
N.B. Houge
F.J. Oelarios
F.E. Lind
J.M. Dennis
None
363 T.A. Perricon e, J.W.
E.A. Sandber g
J.W. Seith, Sec.
. 92.62
377 W.J. Tripler, M .
M .L. Gonsolin
A.A. Ries , Sec.
C .V. Hughes
. 80.52
378 J.M. Brown, M.
30.80
365 R.E. Simonso n , M .
J.A. Scheich , S .W.
40.26
366 D.W. Scott, S.W.
C.W. Dahlin, Jr., J.W.
R. Forreste r, J .W .
0 .H. White, lnsp.
S.M. Pavlovic h , P.G .M.
. . 86.24
379 V .M. Warren , E.R.
C.S. Bersani , lnsp .
.. 98. 12
380 E.P. Bergero n, M.
H.F. Leas
B.D. Donley, S.W.
. . . 90.86
367 M .S. Towne, M.

Lodge
No.

..

.. . ..

...

..

..

. ..

.

.. .

.

...

..

.

413

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

412

MilHge
Registe red
MllHge Lodge
Registe red
Allow.
Membe r
No.
Allow.
Member
. .. None
No.
Sebree, M .
E.
400
L.E . Mullins, Jr., J .W .
A.O. Mason, S.W.
A.C. Peters, Sec.
J .R. Davidso n , lnsp.
l.M. Anderso n
J .C . Belda
C.A. Grossma n
V. Howard
R.H. Tallman
W.A. White
G.D Woody
131 . 12
402 W.K . Burton. J.W.
107.36
..
.
.
.
M
381 W .R. Willis,
J.S. Flet. lnsp.
F.A. Bolton, S.W .
. None
403 D.K. Allen, S.W.
G .C . Schrum , lnsp.
W .C . Rusk, Sec.
R.L. Youngb lood
L.S. McElwai n. P G.M.
. . 45 .98
383 A.G. Chapma n , S.W.
A.A. Kirk
135.52
..
E.R.
,
384 A.E. Dufresne
C.D. Minar
None
.
388 O .H . Mueck , M. .
404 C.W. Keller Ill, M . . . . . . . . 93.94
F.M . Oalog, Jr., S.W.
M . Bess, S.W.
J.E. Yarberry , Sec.
G . Schaul, J.W.
A.B. Becker
C.W. Keller, Jr., Sec.
D.E. Bohn
T.C. Holm
A.L. Croce
. . .. . 91 .74
405 A. Castane da, M .
C.D. Estolano
S.W.
A.S . Bowley,
J .E. Finley, Jr.
B .C . Go, J.W.
A.G . Holly
K.G . Hope, Sec.
K.E . Hopper
. . . . 87. 12
S.G. Casciola , S.W.
406
R.T. Jackel
M.A. Proctor, Jr., J.W.
J .C . Lewellen
R.L. Olson, Sec .
G .P. Leung
J.J. Libby
C.F. Montgom ery
117.04
407 J.A. Kurupas , M .
M.E. Morgan
C.H. Lewis, S.W.
G.W. Nelson
J .P. Adams, J.W.
D.F. Perazzo
. . . 84.26
1.J. Santigo, M .
408
94.38
.
.
..
389 D. Martinez . S.W.
S.D. Simpson , S.W.
P.M . Jones, J.W.
A. Taylor, J.W.
R.H. Davis , G. Mar.
. . 106.48
J.P. St. Clair, M .
411
T.L. Cable, lnsp .
S.W.
Fuller,
.E.
B
134.64
...
390 J.O. Petree, S.W.
D. Duitz , J.W.
None
391 W.J. Stanawa y, Sec.
M .E. Marshall , lnsp.
H.E. Waltz, lnsp.
.. . .. 82.06
415 R.R. Robinso n , M .
93.06
.
M
,
edian
Kantzab
H.
394
A.H. Shifrin, S.W.
B.A. Navarro, S.W.
M.M . Marsello s
O .N. De Guzman , J.W.
D.M . Monson
.M.
M.E. Smith, P.G
. . . . . . 41 .14
R.T. Enloe, Jr., M.
417
C .E. Thomps on , Jr.
J.W.
,
Gann
F.L.
22,88
395 D.C . Miller, M.
A.B . Burnham
L.E. Lewis
. 88 .66
418 B.R. Dean. E.R.
None
J.W.
Theis,
T.N.
396
. 96.58
.
M
,
Esparcia
419 D.G.
B.J. Ballard
J .B. Roberso n. S.W.
J .L. Farina
O.C. Decker, tnsp.
G.W. Haas
. . 38.94
420 L.W. Jelinek, Jr., E.R.
A. Pracht
•. 89.98
M.
Letcher,
T.C.
421
89.76
397 C.G. Carroll, E.R.
L.V. Noble, S.W.
M.L. Thomps on, Sr.
J . Morrison , J.W.
11.00
399 J.W. Alden, Jr., S.W .
. . . 88.66
422 H .K. Haggard , S.W.
.
.W
J
Jr.,
Letteup,
E.O.
J.E. Calhoun
D.A. Noland, lnsp .

Lodge

.

.

.. . . ..

.

..

..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

414

Miieage
Registered
Mileage Lodge
Registered
Lodge
Allow.
Member
Allow.
No.
Member
No.
51 .70
J .C. Canale
424 R. Ranney, S.W.
P.T. Hodiak, lnsp.
B .B. Hagans. lnsp.
444 J.W. Durbin, S.W. . . . . . . 76.78
E.D. Armstrong
D.J . Groves, Sec .
. 136.18
425 l.M. Hearen, E.R.
95 92
W.S. Barrows, Sr.
426 F. Skidmore. M .
T.J. Luby
S.E. Cooper, S.W.
EA McCurry
J .R. McCoy, Sec.
. . . . . 93.50
446 R.C. Mautz, M.
95.92
427 B.J. Mills, J.W.
R.M. Haber, Jr., S.W.
94.82
428 R.L. Welch, M. ' .
J.R. Huff, J.W.
S.H. Potter, S.G.D.
. . . 93.06
447 D.C. Gillard, E.R.
W . Namahoe, Jr .• lnsp.
F.M. Hansen, Sec.
R.J. Bingle
.. .6. 82
448 C.L. Dent, M. . .
W.L. Butterbaugh
J .H. Finley, S.W.
G.C. Johnson
E.R. Perkins, Sec.
J.M. Rose
V.W. Hendrix, P.G.S.
429 R.K. Foltz, M.
. . . . . . . 8.80
C.E. Millard
A.O. Cabrera, S.W.
H.B . Putnam
R.L. Mull, Sr., J.W.
L.E. Wine
J.C. Brown
W.N. Wine
P.J . Lee
450 H.F. Thompson, M. . . . . . . 85.36
. . . None
431 R.W. Davis, M .
S.E. Ruley, S.W.
D.A. Newbry, S.W.
A.A. Dipre. J.W.
J .L. Van Winkle , Sec.
W.C. Faubion , Sec.
B.R. Downen , lnsp.
F.T. Alexander
R.E. Wincentsen , lnsp.
R.S. Cordobes
R.E. Davenport
W.W. Dickson
D.E. Davis
. 90.20
451 M.W . Patterson, M . .. ..
S. Emmanuele
M. Reyes, S.W.
A.O. Morse
M.H. Rush, J .W.
26.62
433 A. Fong , S.W.
C .F. Meese , Sec.
None
435 D. Masalla, M .
F.L. Sutliff
H . Beck, S.W.
. 90.42
457 J.F. Graham, M.
R.A. Bush
E.E. Greene, Sec.
W . Kiesow
G.W. Abshier, lnsp.
D.L. West
E.F. Schmit
B.R. Woodard
. 20.02
459 C.A. Wallace, M .
. . . 9658
436 J .R. Perry, M.
A.L. Mara, S.W.
E.G. Massingham , J.W.
A.J. Smyth
W . Perry
. . . . 13.64
460 T. LeClert. M.
R.P. Wineberg
R.E. Collins, S.W.
. .. . 82.50
437 R.C. Olmstead, M.
M. Henderson, J .W.
E.V. Turner, S.W.
. . None
462 J.H. Springer Ill, E.R.
E. Randell, Jr .. J.W.
J.H. Springer, Jr .. Sec.
G.H. Lindquist, Sec .
P.A. Lawson
16.50
439 R.D. Miller, S.W.
J.M. Pisias
R.M. Pinol , J.W.
J.K. Tamano
J . Lacy
. 15.18
463 G.E. Kievlan, Sr., M.
N.J. Zwinge
76.78
L. Blaustein , S.W.
441 H.B. Alvarez, M .
J .L. Downing Ill, J.W.
B.C . Sarmiento, J.W.
442 G.G. Parks, M.
R.E . Pierce, Sec .
.114.86
R.M. Cruz
H.L. Jensen, Sec.
. . . . . . 40.26
465 A.W. Koorce, M.
C.J. Andrews

..

..
.

.

.. ... .

..

.

.

415

Registered
Mileage
Lodge
Miieage
Regletered
Allow.
Member
No.
Allow.
Member
. None
488 R. Murphy, Sec.
C.N . Tribble, S.W.
D.J. Johnson
C .R. Hutchinson, Jr.
• 47.08
493 W.J. Berry
l. Loring
TA Marks, J.W.
G. Lowe
• . None
494 J .R. Robbins, M.
63.58
466 J.L. Weller , Sr., M.
A.O. Horning, J.W.
R.F. lndor1, S.W.
M.H . Berrie
E.L. Moynier, J .G.S.
D.F. Darrow
R.F. Freeman , lnsp.
M.M . Ganitch
M.B. Schoenrock
C.D. Guthrie
T.C. Stedman
E.L. Hanson
J.B. White
S.P. Leach
88.66
467 A.A. Pedersen , M.
. 18.92
499 E. Lowe, M .
J.L. Cooper Ill
L.D. Hankins. S.W.
91.74
469 J.G. Dotson , M.
R.E. Tice, J.W.
J .E. Dotson, S.W.
J .D. Martin. Sec.
G.L. Postlethwait , J.W .
J .W . Driskell, P.G.M.
473 Not Represented
R.A. Ebbage, P.G .M.
475 Not Represented
A.A. Young
.•. 117.70
476 E.L. Robertson, E.R.
'54 78
501 P. Batchelor , J.W.
A.O. Pillow
B.O. Stelzriede , lnsp.
... 11 .00
479 E. Schaefer, M.
. None
502 J. Reynolds, M. .
0.U. Need Ill, S.W.
S.W.
.
Bacon
.
B
J.W.
G. McCarthy,
J .E. Thurbon , Sec.
A.A. Pasquinelli, lnsp.
F. Wright
T.V. Baker
J. Wright
L.G . Benjamin
'95.20
505 M.J . Blankenship , S.W.
H.J . Coffman
R.B. Woods , lnsp.
J.V. Hillis
. 88.66
506 C.L. Mosher, M.
G. Jennings
S.W.
,
:Sepian
S.J.
Leggale
J.F.
L.L. Braun , Sec.
J.W. Robinson
R.F. Bradbury
F. Shirey
R.E. Welsh
R.W. Simmons
. ' . . . 9 .02
5 11 C.A. DeVivo, M.
. ... None
480 A. Simonsen, M.
C.O. Sumner, Jr. , J.W.
J. Vincent, S.W.
C .N. Cave , Sec.
L.W. Woods , J.W.
A.O. Collier, lnsp.
E.A. Haglund , P.G.M.
C.A. Cobb
O.D. Van Norman, lnsp.
J.A. Gmelin
J.B . Cook
S. Pataky
R.H. Rookard
G.W. Petri
O.A. Thomas
H.J. Wright
A.J. Weis
. .. ' .. 88.66
512 J ,W. Newton, M.
483 C.E. Schmid , S.W. . . . . . . 91.30
A. Armstrong . J.W.
F. Cross, J.W.
B . Johnson, Sec.
D.A. Noble, Sec .
R. Niccum
l.S. McWilliams
R.C. Overbeck
... 32. 12
485 W.W. Wmdenham , M.
. 82.06
51 3 A. Berger, M.
B.J. Heffington, S.W.
M.F. Miller, J.W.
W.J. Chandler
J . Olarte, Sec.
63.58
.
486 F.O. Brittian, M.
J . Miller
T.J. Darnell, S.W.
O.E. Robi nson
R.E. Froeh lich, J.W.
. . . . None
518 J .N. Webb
A.L. Hutchison

Lodge

No.

... . ..

... .

..

..

.

. . . . . . ..

..

. ..

....

416

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mileage
Reglatered
Mileage Lodge
Reglatered
Lodge
Allow.
Member
No.
Allow.
Member
No.
A.G. Cowan, Jr .
. . 8866
520 R.L. Koretz. M .
A.G. Duenckel
H.G. Golden, S.W.
T.R. Hall
L. Cohen , J.W.
D.W. Maltby
S.I. Schway, Sec.
D.A. Moeller
L. Fisher, lnsp .
B.C. Smith
M. Koretz
. .. . . . 94 .38
543 C.L. Ramsey, M .
M.H. Nahin
C. Bernales , S.W.
W. Nemoy
F.H . Douglas, J.W.
• . . . . None
521 J.G. Dickow, M.
R. E. Ricarte , Sec.
E.O. Thorp, S.W.
P.L. Horn
E.H. Siems, P.G.M.
. . . . . . . 88.00
544 G.E. Pruitt, M.
C.R. Neil
N . Stoisor, S.W.
C.M. Stine
V. Avetisian , J.W.
D.E. Weisse
B .L. Conroy
. . . . . . . 101 .64
524 C .J . Liefer, M .
M. Hickman
R.C. Perry, J.W .
547 J.L. Humble, M. . . . . • .. 91.74
A.A. David, Sec.
J. Saelid, S.W.
528 H.I. Felender . M . . . • . .. . 88.66
H.P. Wilkins. G.T.
E. Koik, J.W.
W.T. Buschmann
H.A. Block
J.E. Dines
D.J . Drew
G.E. Fuson, Jr.
C.W. Foster
L.J. Humble
D. Monson
548 D.H. Baker, M. . . . . . . . . 84 .26
D.P. Ottinger
J.W. Bury, S.W.
529 S.G. Abrams, M. . .. . . . . 88.66
D.R. Doan, J .W.
R.S. Giel . S.W.
R.J. Nepute, Sec.
J. Barth , J,W.
R.S. Doan , S.G.W.
S.F. Jelin, Sec.
W.H. Strain, lnsp.
J . Bolten
R.E. Atwood
. . .. . . 40.26
530 A.M. Todd, M.
M.E. Cooke
D.B. Brewer, Sec.
R.W. Doan
H.C. Dunlary, lnsp.
X.G. Young
W.H. Murphy
. . .. 5 .94
20.68
551 AG. Watson , M.
532 C .D. Woelfer, S.W.
V.K. Rothlisberger, S.W.
94.82
533 J.H. Curry, M. . .
R.D . Peters, Sec.
R.P. Kaltenbach, S.W.
W.J. Blomseth , J.G.W.
D.M. Troop, J.W.
W .E. DeGarmo, lnsp.
H.L. Deiters, Sec.
D.C. Barnett
D.D. Duff
L.C. Basker
H.L. Massie
C.B. haines
E.L. Piantoni
J. Palmeri
W.F. Sizemore
J .R. Trindel
90.64
535 T.B. Motz, M. .
. . .. . 62.84
552 V.V. Jensen, M.
W. Carnot, Sec.
G.N. Caywood, S.W.
94.38
540 E.B . Jacques, M.
P.R. Wright, Jr., J.W.
W.F. Stovell, Jr., lnsp.
556 L.J. Larson , M. . . . . . . . . None
J.E. Forsyth
C.L. White , S.W.
LL. Main A.O. Parkins
A.A. D'Esmond , J.W.
F.C. Tanner
R.R. Newman, Sec.
. . . 85.80
542 J.L. Davis, M.
J.G. de Baere
N.S. Black. S.W.
B.J . Franklin
D.A. Bergen, J.W.
M .L. Gerber
W .J . Bray Ill, lnsp.

417

MilHge
Mileage Lodge
Registered
Registered
Allow.
Member
Allow.
No.
Member
D.C . Rae, J.W.
G.H. Totten
0.H. Rae, Sec.
E.A. Weden, Jr.
. . .. 115.94
580 W. Blackwood, M.
557 N.F. Simmons, E.R. , . • .. 90.42
H . Kaltenback , S.W.
. .. • . 114.84
561 R. Callera, M.
R.E. Mountain , J .W.
K. Grant, S.W.
L. Chambers, Sec .
L.M. Long , J.W.
G.D. Miller
H.I. Dorsett, Sec .
. 99.44
582 V.A. Key, Jr .. M.
E.W. Maxwell
D.L. Stephens
. .. • . . . 5.94
564 R.B. Eckstein . M.
. None
583 W.U. Woolley .
C.A. Bos, S.W.
• 91.96
585 B.J. Bodnar, M.
R.E. Forslind, J.W.
R.H. Koomen, S.W.
D.M. Schauer, Sr., Sec.
R.F. Van Fossen, Sec .
W.R. Mathias
A.A. DeMiceli
N.E. Royce
R.W. Jeanson
. . . . . . 94.38
567 D. Hosman, M.
. 88.66
588 G. White. M .
E. Moreno, S.W.
• 95 92
590 R. Franklin, S.W. . . .
L. Houlihan, J.W.
E.H . Bowman , Sr.
R.L. Gandt
P.H . Van Dalsen
J.R. Nelson
. 18 .70
591 C . Solari. M.
. • . . . . . 5 .94
569 A.O. West, M.
V.K . Armstrong, Jr.
F.M. Hibbs , S.W .
. 85 58
592 D.R. Brookfield, M.
R.C. Hansen, J.W.
A.S. Beddoe
D.D. Morris, Sec.
. 88.66
595 D.F. Nisbet, E.R. .
S.H. Cerates
. 90.20
596 G.C . Blackwook, M.
S.M. Giovannelli
J.L. Owens, S.W.
E.J. Matraia, Jr.
H.T. Collins , J.W.
E.C. Ruth
W .M . Sanderson , lnsp.
E.B. Smith
600 G.R. Noell , M. . . . . . . . . 91 .74
C .8 . Tilden •
J.E. Bristol, S.W.
• .. .. . 88.88
572 H. Nielsen , M.
D.W. Litsinge r
L. Leibowitz, S.W.
. 55.00
601 T.N. Tobener, M.
R. Toepfer, J.W.
. 90 .64
604 J .L. French , S.W.
W.L. Pry, Sec.
D.H. Denbow
A.A Toepfer
J .D. Paris
. . .. . .. 11 4.84
574 R.R. Parker, M.
. 92 .62
607 G.H. Evinger, M.
J.M. Farrell, S.W.
. 18.92
609 C .E. Ward , M. . . . .
D.H. McGill, J.W.
C .C . George, S.W.
N.E. Hale
T.J. Strauch , J.W.
H.L. McGill
W.W. Holtzclaw
. . .. . 117.04
576 L.B. Reeves, S.W.
R.L. Mehlatt
M .A. Christian, J.W.
.. . None
511 R.N. Deter
T.M. Sagar
R.E. Slothower
R.E. Winterton
. . . 9 1.74
612 R.F. Nidever, M.
. . .. . 91 .08
577 L.0. Cabieles. M .
S.E. Harris, A.G.L.
M.Q. Chiappe , S.W.
D .L. G riffiths, lnsp.
C.A. Miller, J.W.
D.A. Journey
LE . Grolinek, Sec.
D.I. Marlow
R.C. Earnest
T .F. McDuffie
T. Hart
M.E. Schrock
J.D. Langley
. . .. .. 18.92
61 3 L.C. Bates, M .
0. Larsen, Jr.
M.A. Norris, S.W.
A.W. Romkey
S.I. Reddick, J.W.
579 AM . Cockrell, S.W. . . . . . 18.92

Lodge
No.

Lodge
No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

418

Registere d
Member

Miieage
Allow.

H.G. Schiereng erg , lnsp.
L.A. Leech , Jr.
J.W. Real
614 H.G. Common s, Jr., M. . .. 88.66
C.F. Kumpe, Sec.
V.M. Dandridg e , lnsp.
J.C. Francis
A.G. Warmuth
615 J.H. Johannes . S.W. . . • • . 107.80
A.A. Palmer, J .W .
A.O. Siems
. .. . . . 94.82
61 6 A.V. Baker, M .
D.R. Filby, Sec.
K.K. Williams
. 103.84
617 C. Wiest, S.W . .
E. Longbrak e
. 85.80
618 W.G. German , M.
V.G. Ross, S.W.
W.J . McBride, J.W.
C.W. Bailey, Sec.
R.J. Haaker
J.G. Henderso n
P.O. Miser
C.W. Pruett, Jr.
C.E. Shaver
. . , . . . 114.84
620 G.B. Nicoloff, M .
W. Pietrzak, S.W.
A.C. Miller, J.W.
T.E. Gibbon , Sec .
J .R. Milliman, lnsp.
T.C . Bates
H.S. Fisher
M. Frankel
A.A. Freyer
J.L. Hodge
C.C. Topliff
. . . . . . . 90.20
62 1 D.K. Keller, M.
J.H. Davis, J .W.
D.W . Jones
J.N. Roberts
E.F. Seaward
. . . . , . . 88.66
623 B. Marcus, M.
R.H . Weis, S.W.
O.J . Rosen, J .W .
J.B. Joyce, Sec.
S.A. Hersh
B. Kulick
625 E.L. Wikinson , M . . . .. . . 95.70
G. Gale, J.W.
K.T. Patton, Sec.
J. Rider
. . . . . 116.16
626 R.E. Barnhart, M.
A.E. Anderson , S.W .

Lodge
No.

Registere d
Member

Mileage
Allow.

H.R. Roush, J.W.
J.R. Evans lnsp.
C.L. Close Ill
627 T.F. Melbourn , M. . . . . , . 90.42
K.D. Kelly, S.W.
R.J . Bennett. J .W.
H .E . Pompey
. 90.64
629 S.P. Hart, S.W . • .
RA Cook, J.W.
632 J .T. Gutierrez . M. . . . . . . 114.84
H.C. Parker, S.W.
K.L. Shori , J.W.
I.A. Regalado , S.G.S.
L.D . Ayers
. . . .. 80.52
633 S.F. Carlson, M.
D.W. Hopkins, S.W.
J.K. Elrod , J.W.
N.R. Hawkes
. 92.84
634 R.L. Kimmell , Jr., E.A.
LE. Kraft
101.20
635 R.K. Thomas, M.
A.F. Baker, Sec.
W .R. Jones, lnsp.
J.B. Casseday
W .D. Cruthirds
R.E. Newman
639 J. Richards, S.W. . .. . .. 88.22
B . Shephran . J.W.
R.S. Dunn , Sec.
R.M. Black
644 T.B. Anderson, S.W. . . . . . 93.94
J .A. Lacy, J.W.
V.E. Hansen. Sec.
A. Vickers
. 91 .08
647 C .E. Hall, M. . . .
D.E. Baldwin, S.W.
. 99.88
648 H.E. Young , Jr.. M.
651 L. Yim, M. . • . . . .. . . . .7.04
J .J . Jensen, S.W.
A.B . Roduta , J.W.
R.V. Duhem, Sr ., Sec.
P.O. Hennig, A.G .L.
F.W . Diestel
R.F. Eisenhart
R.E. Fraze
E.H. Holtmann
A.F. Koula
652 A.G. MacBride , lnsp. . . . .. None
E.A Pooleon, lnsp.
653 Not Represen t ed
. 93.94
656 L.V. Kilburn , M. .
R.C. Miller, Sec.
114 84
657 E.M. Dreyer, M. .

Lodge
No.

Registere d
Member

Mileage
Allow.

Registere d
Lodge
Member
No.
676 J .S. Sutton, M.

419

Mileage
Allow.
• . . 11 .00

D.W. Johnston , S.W.
L.C. Delcarme n , S.W.
B.A. Fulton, J.W.
H.L. Bullock, J.W.
• . . • . 25.08
658 J.K. Merritt, M. .
R.W. Scott. Sec.
G.J. Frago, S.W.
W .F. Buescher
A.G. Perez, J.W.
O.J . Locke
R.C. Booth , Sec.
R.C. Pfirrman
D.L. Harper
. • .. • . 88.66
677 G.R. Roten, M.
659 R.S. Breech , M. . • . . . .. 93.28
G.A. Cherno, S.W.
R.E. McMillan , J.W.
S.C. Ingram, J.W.
92.18
660 C.R. Giesler, S.W.
A.S. Ostrom, lnsp.
0 .0 . King
W.A. Fishback
81 .84
663 RA Tucker, M.
G. Ingram
O. Karns, S.W.
G.V. Roten
I. Atkinson
O.P. Shampay
51.26
665 M.L. Thompso n, E.R.
D.M. Sivler
85.36
.
.
.
.
M
666 F.A. Lacy,
Not Represen ted
679
P.E . Nielsen, S.W.
680 R.J . Burchett, Sec. . . . • . . None
S. Sherry, J .W.
O .W . Elder
A.C. Read , Sec.
J . Myron
J .R. Lenninge r. lnsp.
Not Represen ted
681
Sr.
Burney,
R.V.
. . .. 91 .30
L.E . Krelovich , S.W.
682
J.0. Jarnagin
B.W. Bunnell, J.W.
M.S. Perez
M.L. McCoy, Jr., lnsp.
B.D. Vanleuve n
T.V. Nelson
.107.14
668 D.R. Miller, M. •
. •.. 46.42
683 B . Winterbu rg , S.W.
G.W. Harshma n, J.W.
Arthur
J.
11.00
.
669 C. Silverman , M . . • .
0 . Hanisch
I. Fershleiser, S.W .
S. Symons
J.W.
,
J.J. Simmens
Not Represen ted
684
W.H. Keydenie rs
685 P. newquist , M. . . • . . . • . 90.86
W.J. Martinez
P . Werstuk, S.W.
W.R. Rudden
K. Goecke. J.W.
670 R.L. Wilcox, Sr., M . • . . . . 90.86
R.L. Howard , Sec.
S.W.
D.J . Pickup,
R.J. Henville, P.G.M.
L.S. Petersen , J .W.
J .R. Paden, lnsp.
R.M. Briggers, Sec.
. . . . . None
686 R.L. Sorensen , M.
J .P. Andreassen
L. Duvick , S.W.
L.A. Strong
J .B . Barbero, Sec.
. .101 .86
671 D.E. Elder, M.
C.J . Crawford
P.T. Greenhal gh, S.W.
C.E. Noble
S.J. Bodnar , J.W.
• .. . 109.34
687 D.H . Alspach, M.
93.72
.•
.
672 J.C. Webb, S.W.
E.G. Alspach, S.W.
K. Baver, Sec.
T.E. Grimes, Sec.
LL. Todd, J.G.D.
J.A. Wohltarth , lnsp.
V.D. Alianiello
T.A. Kanester
Johnson
J.D.
C.F. Sharp, Jr.
.38
94
.
674 J. Hershfiel d, S.W. . . . . .
. . . . . None
690 E.E. Hollinger , M.
B. Rudnick, J.W.
G.M. Stewart, S.W.
C.P. Stillman
M .A. Nadler. J .W.
. .. . 20.02
675 A.O. Wright. M .
M.L. Sutter
O.G. Chavez, S.W .
691 C.W. Miller, S.W. • . . . .. . 88.66
.
D.0 . Holleyma n, J.W
H.C. Fish
A.O. Howard

Lodge
No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

420

Aeglatere d
Member

Miieage
Allow.

B.O. Johansen
692 A.O. Glass, M. . . . • . . . . 18.92
E. Schneide r
693 J .M. Kartzinel, S.W. . . . . . 112.64
A. Phillips , J.W.
E. Gray
. . . . 63.58
695 D.K. Ingram , M.
M.S. White, J.W.
C .E. Zwartendyl<, Sec.
J.O. Denney, lnsp.
696 C.H. Gay, M. . . . . . . . . 114.84
J.T. Simpson, S.W.
C.E. Schmutz, J.W.
H.G. Lacy
699 O.J. Thom, M. . . • . . . . . 94.38
0 .0 . Schaeter, S.W.
J.B. Mc Enterter, J.W.
AC. Happel, G.S.B.
R.A. Sherod, G.M .
J.W. Ashwill, lnsp.
R.C. Blossom, lnsp.
H.C. Hartzel
F.A. Malan
R. McMillan
O.G. Souza
. . . . . . 66.00
701 R.B. Leonard, M .
R.E. Beckler, S.W.
E.H. Gregg, Sec.
. 29.48
707 J. Leitner, M. . •
A. Gordon , Sec.
.100.76
708 R. Damon, M.
R. Zimpfer, S.W.
J.V. Bruggen , J.W.
O.J. Webb, Jr., lnsp.
A.E. Enz
. . . . 82 72
710 W.B . Marsh, M.
F.M. Amparo, S.W.
R.R. Kennon, J.W.
L.A. Morris, Sec .
711 B.J . Fuller, S.W. . .. . . . . 103. 18
F.S. Kellner, lnsp.
C.F. Guyson, Sr.
712 W. Malmastr om, S.W. . . . . . 8 .58
C.T. Vincent
W.B . Pruitt
714 P.T. Crossley, M.. . . . . . . None
LB. Carlson
S.G. Mepham
LE . Sheller
. .. . . 90.86
717 G.C. Felt, M. .
F.A. Steiner II, S.W.
F.A. Stiener, J .W.
718 J. McCollum , S.W . . .. . . . 14 .96

Lodge
No.

Registere d
Member

MilHge
Allow.

L. Vizza
. . . 51 .70
719 A.L Moore, S.W.
C.D. Meador. J.W.
R.M. Griffin
. 49.28
720 H. Goeringe r, E.R.
O.C. Rieder
. 85.80
721 D.T. Pollock, M. • .
C. Schlesing er, S.W.
M. Leibert, J.W.
A. Price, Sec.
W. Gershon
S. Herman
724 W.A. Ashmore , M. . . . • . . . 7.26
H. Russell, S.W.
LN. Peterson, Sec.
H. Burson
726 O.L. Hampton , M. . . . . . 102.96
J. Clark, S.W.
B. Kemper, J.W.
J. Katzman
728 C.M. Fannin , J.W. • • . . . . 94 .38
T.J. Hargaden
C.L. Hart
M.D. Ward
730 R.C. Eytel , M . . .• ••• . . . 22 .44
J .W Hill, S.W.
E.R. Comstoc k . Sec.
732 J .B. Braunstei n , M. . . . . .. 22.44
0 .0 . Harman, S.W.
R.J. Petterson . J .W.
AW. McConch ie, Sec.
S.T. Borglund
A.E. Dunn
D.S. Veale
. . . . 113.08
735 D.L France, M.
J.M . Kornegay, J.W.
R. Gibson, lnsp.
. . . 117.26
736 B .F. Harris
A.M. Magdaluy o, S.W.
R.E. Liddell. J.W.
V.D. Riska
C.L Rosso, Jr.
. 91 .08
740 C.N. Richter, M.
C.P. Barrett
. 91 .96
741 T.H. Nix, M. . . .
C.E. Newman. S.W.
B.D. Moore, J.W.
W.M. Haynes, Sec.
. .. 16.72
746 R.L Barrows, M . .
A.J. Schatten burg , S.W.
J .E. Knight
. . 114.84
747 W.E. Shupp, M. .
D.H. Weast, S.W.

Lodge
No.

Registere d
Member

Mileage
Allow.

Lodge
No.

N.N. Leonard , J.W.
99.88
748 C.J. Driscoll, S.W.
28.16
749 J. Stallings, M. •
D.V. Hanry, Sec.
T.0. Cox , lnsp.
J .0. Dixon, lnsp.
V.T. Fike
750 D.J . Ku ssman, M . . . . . . • 94 .82
J.S. Mitchell, S.W.
J.L. Clayton
E.L. Harp
R.L Riemer
. . . . • 11 .88
752 J.J . Riffle, M.
D.S. Lawrence , S.W.
F.V. Vega, J.W.
. .. 91 .08
753 G.F. Cary, M. . . . .
G.D. Christens en, S.W.
R. Lugo, J.W.
$ .A. Kitchens
. None
754 F. Poong, S.W.
L.G. Curtis
. . 6.82
756 M.J. Cornell, M.
LL. Perry , S.W.
E.E. Lewis, lnsp.
F. Macan
O.C . Rupert
H.L. Rutan
A.O. Smith
. . . . . 117.04
760 P.C. Davis. M .
J .L. Dalrymple , S.W.
G .R. Fish . J.W.
A.D. Sawyer
None
762 A. Nance, S.W.
A. Flier, J.W.
88.66
763 F. Cascone , M.
B. Fox, J.W.
T.J. Haddad, lnsp.
F.E. Eastman
. .. 93.06
765 H.M. Whitfield, M.
J .F. Ackerman , S.W.
D.D. Henderso n, J.W.
C .J. Echelberg er, Sec .

K. Durian
S.E. Eya
88.66
767 A. Kahn, M
85. 14
769 R.P. Warren. M . . .
D.R. Holloman , S.W.
H.A. Macy, lnsp.
M.J. Bouche, Jr.
A. Krcelic, Jr.
771 J.R. Reget, M. . . . .. . .. 114 .84
R.E. Moffat, S.W.
C.G. Knight, Jr.

Aeglatere d
Member

421

MilHge
Allow.

D. Reynolds
D.R. Taylor
773 L Livermore , S.W. . . . . . . 63.58
D.P . Miller, J.W.
M. Ridlon, Sec.
G.A. Worrell, lnsp.
110.22
775 W .S. Fields, M. . .
C .P. Batterson . S.W.
. 90.86
776 G.H. Alden, M . .
LI. Dauer, S.W.
F.M. Drake , J .W.
M.S. Barber, lnsp.
J.E. O'Bannon , Jr.
. .. None
780 N.R. Trelan . . . .
• •• 10.34
782 C.E. Cunningh am, M.
J.M. Whiteley, S.W.
T.H . Conwell, J.W.
N.L Danner , Sec.
B.B. Buerken
LG. Carsner
. . • . . . 22.00
786 H.J. Dumont, M.
E.E. Billigeir, J.W.
D.R. Kindrick
. . . . . . 44 .88
788 J.A. Wayman , M.
D.W. Harlan. S.W.
A.G. Hewitson
A.H. Treibel. Sec.
W .J. Schlichtin g
. . . . . 18.92
789 E.A. Olson , M.
R.R. Sherman , S.W.
H.E. Lewis Ill. J.W.
E.O. Andrews
W. E. Clothier
C. Delaney
E.P. Gonsalves
A.T. Hill
H.L. Pettit
J.C. Richey
J.W. Ailey
F.B. Stimson
G.A. Uren
H.P. Vonada
. . . . . . 81 84
791 L.G. Smith , M.
BA. McVey, S.w .
C.C. White
H.T. Smith
s. b lk
. . . . . . 90.42
793 J .L Jimenz, M.
L Camacho , J.W.
A.M. Navarro, Sec.
A. Hernande z, lnsp.
C. Castaned a
AE. Gallegos

lodge
No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

422

Regiatered
Member

Mileege
Allow.

S.N. Morale s
. . . 22.22
795 T.l. Awalt, M.
E.D. Givens , S.W.
A.A. Curry, J.W.
H.D. Hanawalt, Jr., Sec.
C.G. Abbot t
H.D. Hanaw alt, Sr.
J.H. Purves
D.G. Reyno lds
• . . • . . 88.66
797 J.D. Rodrig o. M.
G.I. Sinco, J.W.
D.C . Cabat u , Sec.
l.M. DeCastro
E.V. Garcia
.. .. 114.84
799 R.R. Dobso n, M .
H.G. Scott, lnsp.
. . . . 82.24
800 T. Shack elford , J.W.
R.A. Figueroa
H. W. Sigge rs
.107.14
802 E.F. Pace, S.W.
E.J. Berga min. J.W.
23.76
803 L.M . Peet, J.W.. .• .
98.78
804 R.E. Monte e, S.W.
84.70
806 J. Reiner, M. . . . •
D. Newm an, J. W.
. . . . . .• 84.70
807 A.H. Weiss. M.
T.R. Bolton, S.W.
C.W. Foster
' • 18.04
808 S.F. Brown , M.
RA Usrey, S.W.
.101 .20
810 DA Gagno n , S.W.
86.46
811 N.J. Giffor d, M .
W.H . Kenne dy, S.W.
W.E. Forsy the, J.W.
P.G. Acord, Sec.
813 A.P. Haller. M. . . . . . . . . 77.22
LG. Dobbi ns, S.W.
R.F. Bunce
AB. Ivie
815 D.W. House r. M. . . . . . .. 95.48
C.B . Caldw ell
M .A. Fechn er
. . 9 .02
818 M.H. Rodrig uez , M .
J .l. Kettm ann , Jr.• S.W.
H.G. Straw II, J.W.
G.L. Crom bie
C. Duran
H.l. Horn
DA Will
. .100.76
820 R.N. Sande rs, S.W.
R.N. Schow enger dt, J .W.
J .C. Elvis
822 J.W. Langle y, M. . . . . . . . 83.82

lodge
No.

Reglatered
Member

Mll•• g•
Allow .

J .0 . Fourr
. . . 84.70
824 G. Tatarian, M.
S.R. Gottsc halk, S.W.
L.C. Heckm an
. . . • . 7.26
825 A. Seday ao, M. . .
A.B. Ablaza , S. w.
J.P. Allen, J.W.
. . .. 114.62
826 K.R. Weiss, M.
P.S. Earle, S.W.
K.A. Schwa nke. Sec.
M.N. Gibso n
. . . . . 76.78
827 J.l. Shirey, M.
V.J . D'Ang elo, S.W.
J.W. Wardr ip, J.W.
J .E. Bullin gton, Sec.
T.G. McKin ney, G.S.B.
J.H. Horn
A E. Westergren
830 D.E. Walto n , M. . . . . •.• 18.92
J.W. Bolen, J.W.
E.R. Nicho lls, Jr., Sec.
. • . . 7.92
831 J .F. Burgo s. M. . . •
F.C. Ancheta, S.W.
A.G. Delum en . J.W.
A.C. Asercion , Sec.
A.C. Abelon
A.I. Alman zor
T.R. Balot
P.A. Ecalnea
D.F. Gatdu la
M. Misen as
.6.60
835 G.W. Davis, M.
J.E. Carvalho, J.W.
114.84
837 D.N. Storey , M. . .
F.H. Camp bell , J.W.
A.F. Peterson, Sec.
J .N. Geopf arth
P.1. Green wood
839 R.C. Bumb asi , M. . . . . . 110 .44
E. Arella no, S.W.
B. Dano, J.W.
J.G. Lazaro , Sec.
. 85 36
840 G. Bosco e, M .
S. Stone , S.W.
. 93.28
841 R.L. Mason, M.
W.M. Bostic. Sec.
F.G. Schra der
M .E. Schro ck
842 J.J. Thras her, M . . . . . . . . 91 .30
W.G. Mento n
H. Raabe

Q)

]....

£

c0

c
.Q

....
Q)

0

()

~
.]5

I/)

Q)
Q)

....

::J

Ol
Q)

0

ci
EI/)

a.
....
2

1l

0

a:

..•

....

t"'lan -oC\f MO
OM~C\IN <'\l ..... <O::

:••

Q)

.0

en
w
c

E

Q)

Q.

::E

"9 "'
Q)

...J

Q)

0

:::::>

....

u..

en

.Q

~

z

l)Or---tO~N-

OM<ONN'<tr--'<tl

!t:

....z

w

::J

I~~

c

I

I

I~~

IA

- ---

N000 11)11 )1fl

~

0C')
Q)

c

w

::J
-:>
Ol

..J

m

c
c
Q)

<(

....

"O

..J
<(

i

....
Q)

Q)

t::

ca
.c

£
£

l/J

a.
a.

~

()

....en

]i

<(

I

~~~~~~~~(\!~~~~~~~

-~

u.
0

en

I

"'

(.)

~

I

Q)
Q)

0

(.)

423

>

ca

0
l-

I/)

a. .
I/)
-£5
.... Q)

ca

ai
.D

E
I/)

c

·-

E
>

ca
E
Q) Q.

::E ca
O>;t::
c a.
ca
·~ ()
0

.c

....

Q)

en o....

-g

ca

§

a.

....Q)

.D

E
E

Q)
Q)
I/)

"'
Q)

Ol

~
0

c::

0
·~

Q)

(.)

Q)

.9
....
0
u..

.c

I-

0

z

I

I N

1/)11 )00 t

No.

Lodge

.24
Mariposa .. . . . . .
. 25
Georgetown . . . . .
. 26
El Dorado
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Golden Gate Speranza .. 30
Gold Hill . . . . . . .. .. 32
Ophir-Bear Mountain . .. 33
San Diego . • . . . . . • . 35
Howard . . . . . . . . . . 37
Santa Cruz . • . . . . . . . 38
Sacramento •• •. . . . . 40
Martinez ..... . . . . 41
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42
Hiram . .. .. . . . . .. 43
. 45
Crescent .. .
.46
Texas
.50
Forbestown .....
. 51
lllinoistown
. •. 55
Suisun . . .
. 56
Volcano
. . 57
Santa Rosa
. . 58
Union ...
.. 59
Gravel Range
. . 60
Plumas
.61
Live Oak . . . • . .
.64
.
Natoma
.65
..
Amador
. 68
Morning Star
.70
Enterprise
• . 78
Calaveras
.. .. 79
Humboldt

. ... ..

0

I

0

o

o

o

o

I

... ..

..

... .. .
.. . .

...

Lodge

No.

lone • . . • . . . . . . . . 80
Woodland . . . . • •.. . 81
~~~

. . . .. . .. . . . 84

Naval . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Rose's Bar . . . . . . . . . 89
North Star . . . • • . . .. 91
St. Helena . .. . . . . .. 93
Henry Clay . . . . . . . . . 95
Hornitos . . . . . . . . . . 98
Yosemite . • . . .. . . . 99
Clay . . . . . . . . . .. 101
Oroville . . . . .. . . . 103
Lexington . . . • . •• . 104
Arcata . . . . . . . . . . 106
Pajaro . . . . . .. .. . 110
Chico . . • . . . .. . . 111
Summit • . • . . . • . . 112
Eden Standard . . . . . 113
Concord . . . . . . . . . 117
Fidelity . . . . . . . . • . 120
Alamo . . . . . . . . . . 122
Sotoyome-C urtis . . • . 123
Table Mountain • . . . . 124
La Fayette . . . . . . . . 126
Hermann . .. . . . . . 127
Visalia • . . . . . . . . . 128
Nicolaus . . • . . . . . . 129
Woodbridge . •. . . . • 131
Sincerity . . • . . . . . . 132
Vacaville . . . . . . . • . 134
Valley . • . . . . • •. . 135

Member• Cherter Degree
Fee•
1990
1991 IHued
212
101
337
191
509
93
205
1130
206
336
432

308
730
197
154
74
137
74
316
185
451
294
73
104
429
406
94
643
277
113
268

209
102
323
197
453
80
206
1114
203
324
412
298
712

206
152
70
136
74
303
187
426
423
69
103
379
398
92
620
274
113
254

1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855

90
100
100
125
100
50
100
100
50
100
100
111
175
111
150
50
115
60
115
125
150
100
50
75
75
100
50
100
75
85
80

Member• Cherter Degree
1991 l••ued Fees
1990
91
263
245
546
90

77
96
91
115
321
73
441
395
223
191
473
106
348
192
428
387
218
425
157
61
333
110
191
58
311
76

89

260
249

536
88
78
94
94
111

308
73
441
370
220
177
622
108
292
181
412
365
211
415
150
61
314
115
180
57
299

77

1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860

80
50
100
90
115.
50
50
50
90
90
50
125
125
75
75
90
30
105
115
100
75
105
80
75
150
75
75
50
135
161
50

Affll.
Fees

--

--

Fee for Life
Due1 Member1hlp

Passed

4
2
5
5
1
1
5
30
1
9
2
5
15
4
0
0
2
1
2
3
5
0
1
0
8
7
0
4
7
0
6

2
1
2
3
2
1
3
20
1
5
2
3
6
4
2

lnlt.

937.50

3
3
0
1

Passed

Raised

Per Ceplte

1
5

2

500

3

675

2
0
1
2
0
0
3
1
9
3
4
2
4
2
2
0
1
2
2
3
5
0
0
3
2
2
7
1

5
4
0
1
1
1

1
3
7
4
0
0
1
1

1

1

4
0
10
0
3
1

2
0
12
0

1,171.32
3,629 .08
3,398.88
7 ,092.84
1,141 .44
1,064 .36
1,237.28
1,222.16
1,445.20
4,101.36
958.76
5,816.56
4,882.56
2,936.40
2,325.88
8, 194.44
1,425.96
3,704.84
2,349.72
5,371 .48
4,702.96
2,784.08
5,375.08
2,154.64
800.32
4,040.96
1,518.80
2,467.60
751 .84
3,995.52
1,012.24

30

36

--

-

36

10
2
10

2
1
5
5

25
35
33
30
24
40
48
60
42
20
36
35
24
25
60
40
50
40
22.50
32
20
15
16

--

33

693

40
18
48

840

-1

1
10

-

10
10
10
5
25
5

10
5
10

-

5
10
5

Affll.
Fees

--

10
20
5
2
10
10

-

5
5

--

5

-

10
15

-

5
10
2
30

5
5

-12

900
520

-

675
528
840

-

--

-

-

620

500

1260

--

945

-

420

--

-

Fee for Life
Dues Member1hlp
20
45
22
32
30
40
20
25
12
421
28
42
40
45
35
25
40
32
30
36
25
35
40
60
40
30
20
30
48
25

Rel•ed Per Ceplt•
2,787.72
1,330.12
4,196.92
2.626.64
5,962.12
1,080.48
2,662.12
14,636.84
2,601 .76
4,229 .04
5,318.36
3 ,922.76
9,507.40
2,687.48
2,004.24
918.40
1,799.72
973.88
3,992.76
2,534.84
5,556.52
5 ,549.76
907.28
1,327.12
4,866.16
5,263.28
1,235.04
8 ,234.80
3,804.88
1,507.56
3.564.44

630

40

G.L
lnlt.

-

-·

-

-

-

833.33
500
600

-

850
945
792
521 .88
834

-

630

775

-

835
840
630
-

0
1
1
1
0
0
1
0
2
7
1
3
5
0
3

1
2
5
3
3
2
3
24
2
6
2
5
5
3
3
0
1
1
2
1
3
0
0
2
3

2
2

A

I\)

A

"

:D

0
()
rn
rn
0

zG)
CJ)

0

"Tl
-i

I

rn

G.L

3

3
4
1
0
2
2
0
3
1
0
0
2
1
1
1
1

3
1
4

3
2
0
4
2
1
3
0
0
0
5
0
1
1
0

G)
:J)

)>

z
0
r

0
0

G)

rn
0

"Tl
()
)>

c"Tl
0

:J)

z

~

A

I\)
(1'I

.

-

.......

No.

1991 Issued

. ... -· -·-

1990

Fees

Fees

Dues Membersh ip

. 136
Lebanon-Pacific
. 139
San Francisco
Grafton
. 141
Franklin
. 143
Oriental
144
Vitruvius
. 145
Abell . . . .
. 146
. 147
Eel River ..
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . 149
Molino . . . . . . . . . . 150
.. 161
Keystone . ..
. 164
Harmony . . .
. . 167
Alameda . . . . .
. . 168
Redwood City . .
Mission
. . . . . . . . 169
Elk Grove . . . . . . . . 173
Drytown
. ... .. 174
. 175
Antioch-Br entwood
Phoenix .. . .. . .. 178
Mendocino ... . .. 179
.. 180
Petaluma- Hamilton
Russian River .. . . . . 181
Tuscan-Maxwell . . . . . 182
Clear L.ake-Callayomi .. 183
. 184
Sierra Valley .
Claiborne
. 185
Evening Star . .
. 186
. 187
Keith .. . . . • . .
Oakland Durant
Rock ridge ..
.. 188
. . 190
Northern Light .

802
839
79
87
230
102
253
168
123
96
48
35
348

769
790
78
82
216
97
231
159
133
93
49
32

100
190
50
115
100
75
50
50
100
65
75
50
165
100
100
50
65
75
75
125
100
75
50
115
50
50
100
61

20

84
117
244
43
71
44
133

1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868

25
5
5
2

20
36
25
50
15
30
24
24
35
35
30
12
45
36
18
24
100
48
27
30
36
30
18
47
24
36
40
30

424
132

1868
1868

111
100

1
5

24
48

Lodge

..

..
... ..

No.

Lodge

Marin .. • . . . . . . . . 191
Santa Barbara . . . . .. 192
Ferndale . . . . . . .. . 193
Mountain View . . . . . . 194
.. 195
landmark- Buckeye
San Simeon . . . . .. . 196
Wilmington .. . . . . . 198
Hartley . . . . . . . . . . 199
Truckee . .. . . . . .. 200
Silveyville . . . . . . . . 201
Wisdom .. .. .. .. . 202
Confidence .. .. . . . 203
. .. . .. 204
Salinas . .
Olivet . . .. . .. .. 205
. . . . . . 206
Stanislaus
. 207
Anaheim .
. 208
Rio Vista . . . . .
King David's . .. ... 209
Friendship •.. . . . . . 210
San Benito . . . . . . . . 211
Crocker . . . . . . . . . 212
San Buenavent ura . .. 214
. 215
Oak Grove . • .
. 217
Monterey .... .
. 218
Mosaic . . .. . .
. 220
.
Downey
. . . 221
Inyo . . . . .
.. . 222
Roseville . . ..
. .. 224
Bakersfield
. 225
San Leandro-Booklyn
San Mateo . . . ". . . . . 226

.

.

388
385
208
41
454
348
158
373

83
122
245
42
71
45
138

446
135

340
347
376

204
42
442
320
156

360

-

--

14
10

-

-

2.50
10
5
5
1
50
10
5

-

5
10

-5
1

--

Members Cherter Degree
Fees
1991 Issued
1990

Affll.
Fees

100
100
50
100
85
75
125
100
131
90
100
75
105
50
115
150
100
100
115
65
100
100
100
75
115
125
50
100
100
100
180

10

274
242
67
275
140
86

309
168
86
99
740
69
386
116
334

363
95
294
347
100
410
332
243
188
260
391
81
544
334
335

290

272
237
65
272
138
92
279
165
83
96
711
67
377
115
315
343
95
282
327
94

400
323
237
185
260
378
77
528
321
324
256

1868
1868
1859
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873

.

--

-

5
25

-

15
10
5
20

-

-

..

-

26
1
5
1
10

416.66
750

---

312.50

-

500

--

800

-

1,000
575

-..
..

--

..
..
625

-

1,000

600
625

30

625

20
60
50
36
35
30
20
36

500

-

1,050
756

..

-

475

-

..
..
1,000
1,200

1,050
375

-750

5
10

12
36
33
36
48
50
35
40

-

60

10
50

2
42

1

--

-..

0
4
1
1
0
1

9,918.24
10,494.80
1,077.12
1,103.36
2,875.92
1,273.64
3,045.60
2,088.08
1,683.36
1,382.16
804.88
419.84
4,382.56
4,554.96
5,057.12
2,988.48
579.92
5,808.04
4,111.56
2,002.24
4,678.72
1, 107.08
1,508.80
3,288.28
567.16
906.28
577.28
1,722.72

7
0

7
3

5
1

5,450.68
1,747.72

Raised

Per C.plte

2
4
2
1
2
1
4
2
2
0
3
1
3
0
2
3
1
5
0
0
2
11
0
4
0
7
0
1
8
2
2

3 ,482.80
3, 158.44
894.80
3,730.64
1,830.96
1,262.08
3,679.64
2,322.80
1,052.96
1,406.40
9 ,322.16
884.04
4,903.12
1,536.80
4,146.84
4,603.20
1,275.28
3,724.24
4,294.24
1,273.28
5,584.00
4,287.52
3,004.48
2,561 .20
3,491.20
4,974.76
997.12
7,039.88
4,019.60
4,061 .80
3 ,444.36

2

7

-

30

-

2
2
1
0
2
1
0
0
2

3
3
0
0
1
0
9
0
2
1
1
0
10
0
0
3
0
3
1
3
2
2
0
3
1
0
0
1

504

--

28
30
30

25
48
48
25
50
18

7
5
2
2
1
0
12

375

750

fee for Life
Dues Membersh ip

36

Pused

0
4
4
0
11
4
5

--

..

695

-

-

1,050

..

1,355
525
875

-·-

lnlt.

1
3

2

Raised Per C.plte
3
5
0
0
1
1
7
0
2
1
1
0
5
1
2
4
2
3
2
3
4

2

I'\)

O>

"1J
::0

0
()
m

m
0

z(j)
(/)

0

'Tl

--f

I

m

G.L
lnlt. Passed
2
3
1
4
2
2
2
2
0
4
5
3
3
0
9
5
1
3
3
1
7

7
0
5
2
6
0
8
3
1
3

2
3
0
1
2
1
2
1
1
0
2
1
3
0
5
5
1
4
1
0
4
8
0
3
0
4
0
0
7
4
3

(j)

::0
)>

z
0

I

0
0

(j)

m

,,0
0

)>

,,c
0

::D

z

)>

~
I'\)

.....

No.

Lodge

Athens . • . • . . . . . . 228
Vallejo-Sol ano . . . . . . 229
North Butte . . . . . . . 230
. . 231
Covelo . . . , '.
Janesville . . . ' . • . . 232
Calistoga . . . . . . . . 233
Hope . . . . • . . . • . . 234
Surprise Valley . - .. . 235
. . . • . . 236
Hills Ferry
Guadalupe . . . . . . . . 237
Colusa • • . . . . . . . . 240
.. 241
Tustin
Magnolia . . . . . . . . . 242
Acacia .. . . . . ' .. . 243
Alcatraz .. .. . . . . . 244
Laurel ....... .. 245
. 246
Pomona
Fresno . . . . . . • . . . 247
Alturas . . . , . . . . . . 248
. . . . . . . 250
Fort Crook
Reading . . . . - . . . . 254
. 255
Welcome
Lodi . . . . . . . . . . . 256
Penrhyn . . . . . .. .. 258
Evergreen • . . . . . . . 259
Lompoc . . . . . . . .. 262
Hesperian
. . . . . . . 264
Orland . . • . . . . . . . 265
Galt . . . . . . . . . . . 267
Olive Branch . . . . . . 269
Snow Mountain . . . . . 271

.. ...

.... ...

.. .

No.

Lodge

Pasadena .. . . . . . . 272
Anchor •. . . . . . .. . 273
Alroyo .. ' . . . . . . . 274
Oakdale .. . . . . . . . 275
Selma . . . . . . . . . . 277
San Gabriel-So . California 278
Hanford • • . . . .. . . 279
Madera Joppa . . . • • . 280
Mount Shasta .. . . . . 281
South West • .. . • • . 283
Paso Robles . . . . . . . 286
Winnedum ah . . ' .. . 287
Elsinore . .. .. . - •. 289
Fellowship . . . . . , . . 290
Santa Paula . . . . . . . 291
Los Gatos-Geo rge E. Tutt 292
Orange Grove . . . . . . 293
Clarence L Fraser , . . . 294
Mount Jackson .. . .. 295
Silver Gate • • . . . . • . 296
Dunsmuir- McCloud . . . 297
Liberty •. • • . . . • . . 299
Redlands . . . . . . . . 300
. 301
Ontario . . . . . . .
.. 302
Santa Lucia
.. 303
Porterville- Lindsay
.• 304
Reedley
Azusa . . .. . .. . . . 305
Golden-As hlar . . . . . . 306
Santa Monica-Pa lisades 307
Monovia . , . . . . . . . 308

....

.. . .. .

Charter Degree
Members
Fees
1991 Issued
1990
150

366
216
51
80
80

70
60
92
211
118

365
321
677
179
116
255
382

77
196
288
194

277
105
469
306
346
128
87
127
26

141
357

204
45
77
78
68
58
90
213
11 6
343
431
661
173
107
231
377
73
186
294

384
274
103
465
284

338
126
87
212
24

1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1876
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878
1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1883
1883
1884

90
75
75
50
75
50
50
75
75
75
50
101
100
150
90
50
115
100
65
100
90
100
75
65
117

200
100
75
50
75
75

Members Charter Degree
fees
1991 Issued
1990
169
247

208
171
136
398
172
236
185
429
197
258
145
410
268
527
426
179
83
477
159
264
339
284
117
466
124
222
331
437
113

577
243
194
170
137
367
168
234
172
425
192
244
144
392
259
51 3
435
173
79
450
151
259
327
262
11 2
430
118
202

290
418
102

1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
189 1
1891
1891
1891
1891

115
125
100
75
80
75.
111

99
90
135
75
100
101

150
90
100
115
80
75
100
50
125
150
120
75
50
75
115
105
125
120

Atfll.
Fees

-

10

--

10
5

5
5

10

10

-

14
5

-

10
5

-

-

-

Fee for Life
Dues Membersh ip
25
30
45
20

50
35
24
15

20
25
36
48
330
30
30
50
36
50
25
66
40

40

4

24

--

65

25

-20
50

-

AttU.

Fees

-

10

--

--

30

-

-

10

-

52
40
30
32
42
18

30
35
40
40
30
40
25
30
40
36
55
35
60
27
36

·-

35
30
30
25
40
15
42
48
50
50
48
30

--

--

-

---

1,008

-

-

800

750
850

1,375
835
1,355
1,092

--

--

-

Fee for Life
Dues Membersh ip

10
10
50

10
--

840
940

46
52
24
45

625

-

--

833.33

--

835

-

756
750

-567

-

840
625
625

840
-

882
1,000

---

1,150
500

-

G.L
lnlt.

PaHed

Raised

Per Capita

2
4
3
0
0
1
3
1
0
1
2
2
3
8
1
1
11
0
0
10
2
5
2
11
4
2
3
2
3
2

0
4
3
0
0
1
3
1
0
1
1
2
1
3
0
1
3
6
1
0
8
3
5
2
6
3
0
2
2
2
1

0
5
3
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
2
1
3
1
0
5
5
1
0
9
3
4
2
6
3
1
2
1
3
0

1,929.92
4,696.84
2,802.48
590.40
957.76
1,000.12
886.04
762.96
1,205.80
2,908.08
1,551 .80
4,505.44
5.658.64
8,593.76
2 ,243.92
1,366.12
3, 121 .92
4,929.24
971.64
2,412.84
3,842.96
5,085.08
3 ,621 .28
1,408.24
6,043.84
3 ,826.84
4 ,565.56
1,607.64
1,224.44
2,723.84
343.40

lnlt.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

5
2
6
0
3
1
3
1
4
5
3
1
2
4
3
5
17
1
1
7
5
3
8
2
0
6
0
1
1
5
5

3
1
2
2
2
1
4
1
2
3
1
0
2

2
1
2
3
2
1
3
1
2
4
1
0
1
1
3
4
11
0
0
5
3

7,46 1.80
3,295.16
2,579.92
2,259. 16
1,793.44
4 .725.84
2,226.92
2,994 .36
2,316.40
5,627.00
2,536.80
3,149.80
1,891.44
5,056 .84
3,394.60
6,598.00
5,784.20
2,232.40
1,037. 12
5,802.28
1,952.64
3,304.12
4, 175.04
3,418.84
1,471.44
5,591.40
1,521.92
2,562.28
3,755.32
5,405.60
1,368.76

7

.:>.

I\)
())

\J
:D

0

()

m
m
Q

z

G>

(/)

0

11

-i

I

m

G.L

1
4
4
10
1
0
4
2
3
5
3
1

6
0
0
0
3
0

5
3
3
1
5
0
0
0
6
0

G>
:D

l>

z
0
r

0

0
G>

m

0

11

()

l>

c

11

0

:0

z

l>

'"'

I\)

co

No.

Lodge

Delano . . • . . .
. 309
Sisson-White Pine
. 310
. 312
Los Banos . . .
. 313
Tehachapi . . . , .
Temescal
. . . . . 314
Norwalk
. . . . . . . . 315
Sanger . • . . . . • . . . 316
Fall brook . • • . . . • • 317
Bellflower • . • . . . • . 320
AJisal . . . . . . . . . . . 321
Alhambra-Progressive
• 322
Whittier
. . . . . 323
. . . • • 324
Corona • • . .
Consuelo '.
'. '325
Needles ..
. 326
Long Beach
. 327
Redondo . . .
. 328
Vallee de France
. 329
Pacific Grove
. 331
Los Angeles Harbor . . . 332
Covina . . . . . . . . . . 334
West Gate . . . . . . . . 335
Fruitvale . . . . . . . . . 336
Point Pinole
. 337
San Jacinto . . . . . . 338
. . 339
Fullerton . . .
Oxnard . . . .
. . 341
. 343
San Fernando
' '
. 344
Starr King
. 346
Palo Alto-Roller
McKinley . . . . . . . . . 347

...

.

...

No.

Lodge

San Bernardino
. . . . 348
. 349
Sequoia-St. Elmo
Fountain Valley ' ' ' .. 351
Metropolitan . . . . . . . 352
Hollywood . . . . . . . . 355
Mill Valley . . . . . . . . 356
Buena Park .. . . . . . 357
Charity . . . . . .. . .. 362
Berkeley . • . • • • • • . 363
Willits .. •.• . . . . . 365
Las Palmas .. .
.. 366
South Pasadena . . . . . 367
Jewel City . . . . . . . . 368
Ocean Park
. 369
Brotherhood . . . . . . . 370
Gardena-Ascot
.. . . 372
. 373
West Los Angeles
Francis Dfake
. 376
. 377
Artesia
. 378
Mizpah . . . . ..
Fillmore . . . . . • • • • 379
Huntington Beach . . . . 380
. . . . 381
Oceanside
Orosi . . .
. ' . . 383
El Centro
. . . 384
. . . . 387
Coalinga .
Parnassus-Presidio .. . 388
International City . . . . 389
Imperial ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' . 390
East Belt . . . . . . . . . 391
Columbia-Balder . .. . 393

..

......

Members
Charter Degree
1990
1991 Issued
Fees
121
116
118
158
284
714
165
203
602
238
452
362
241
578
180
393
393
87
254
671
494
580
305
390
99
298
341
398
651
462
194

119
111
115
151
279
688
154
205
563
246
407
343
0
572
164
376
376
75
266
646
453
550
297
382
101

300
335
384
631
444
177

1891
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902

1()()

75
75
125
115
115
75
90
161
140
100
100
115
120
122.50
150
125
139
75
165
115
165
100
120
90
125
125
161
150
100
115

Members Charter Degree
Fees
1991 Issued
1990
765
507
260
419
652
199

746
483
248
396
647
192

536

506

240
465
134
751
295
593
21 6
629
483
219
211

234
439
124
989
282
563
209
610

409

390
437
142
500
396
106
244
0
796
91 2
12 1
138
0

136
153
518
402
108
255
212
303
1,000
124
142
540

463
208

203

1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908

75
75
100
100
125
100'
135
100
75
75
136
115
100
140
100
125
125
125
115
100
100
159
160

86
125
100
100
125
125
50
150

Attil.
Fees

..
20
20

-20

Fee for Life
Dues Membership
36

30
30
50

-

-

-

55
18

-

30

-

5

45

-

30
50

945
630

-

10

-

-

25
10
25

-

..
-

..
25
5

..
-·
35

-25
5

-

Attll.
Fees

-

10

--

-

45
40
30
35
60
40
36
30
28
18
48
40
28
30
35
30
35
50
35
24
40

35
24
18
30
30
36
36

30

5
1
10

18
48
48
21
18
21
18
30
25
42
18

·-

25
5

25

25
10

35

--

48
50
45
50
40
50

10

30

-

30
25

-

-

-

25

-

5
20

950
840
650
730

1,008
750
630

-

400
1,000
833

585

-

675

..

-

500
850

Fee for Life
Dues Membership

-

-

375

-

500

-

-

625
750
750
630
375

-

1,008
420
378
437.50

--

625
520

378
730

1,050
937 .50

834

..

500
650
520

35

-

24

500

G.L
Init.

Passed

Raised

Per Captt.

0
1
1
3
11
4
0
8

1
1
3
1
4
5
0
5

2
0
6
0
15
3
6
6
2

2
1
2
1
13
3
5
5
1
6
4
3
3
2
3
0
2
6
9

0
0
3
0
3
2
0
5
0
3
1
1
1
12
2
5
5
1
5
6
1
3
3
4
0
4
4
8
3
2
2

1,549. 16
1,418.96
1,463.68
1,906.40
3,678.48
8,852.64
1,994.24
2,745.36
7,, 12.68
3,232.04
5,040.08
4,338.24
2.00
7,516 .44
2,250.44
5,091 .28
5,091.28
1,066.00
3,520.68
8 ,396.32
5,741.72
7,001.52
4,061.64
5,0 18 .92
1,259.52
4,142.00
4,487.60
4,825.56
8,407.56
5,729.32
2,249.52

,

7
7
5
4
4
4
0
5
6
7
7
5
1

1

7
2
3

....w
a

"U

:D

0
0

m

m

0

z

(j)
(/)

0

'Tl
-I

I

m

G.L
Init.

PHsed

4
4
2
0

5
3
0
0
7
0
2
5
4
0
4
0
1
1
1
6
1
1
2
3
0
5
6
0
4
0
4
9
2
1
0

10
0
4
5
10
0
4
4
4
1
4
4
1
1
1
3
1
9
11
0
1
0
1
8
0
1
0

Raised Per Capita
6
1
1
0
6
0
3
4
2
0
4
0
3
0
3
6
2
1
2
1
1
6
6
1
3
1
1
6
0
1
1

9,605.72
6 ,343 .52
3,230.52
5,220.52
8 ,274.24
2 ,51 9 .04
6,438.80
2,992 .24
5,802 .44
1,626.88
12,960.72
3,546.76
7,366.88
2,742 .84
8,167.20
5 ,998.36
2 ,667.36
2,588.00
5,069 .32
5,818.08
1,825.68
6 ,539.04
5,32 1.68
1,378.60
3 ,143.68
1.00
10, 161 .76
11 ,882.40
1,550.16
1,747 .96
51.00

(j)

:D
}>

z

0
r

0

0

(j)

m
0
'Tl

0

}>

c'Tl

0

:D

z

>

....

w

No.

Lodge

. 394
University .. ..
. 395
Turlock . . . . . .
. 396
Apollo-Woodstock
. 397
Rising Light ..
Fraternity . . . . . . . . 399
Burlingame . ' . . . . . 400
Brawley . . . . . . . . . 402
. . . . . . 403
Verba Buena
Glendora . . . . . . . . . 404
. . . 405
Mon eta ...
. 406
Burbank .....
. 407
La Mesa ...
. 408
Alta Mt. Sierra
. 411
.
.
Perris
. .. 415
Silver Trowel . . .
. 417
Clovis . . . . . . .
Elysian . . . . . . . . . . 418
Upland . . . . . . . . . . 419
Kerman . . . . . . . . . 420
Inglewood-James Kew . 421
Eagle Rock Glassel! . . . 422
Exeter . . . . . . . . . . 424
. 425
Holtville ..
Taft-Midway . . . . . . . 426
Chino Valley . . . . . . . 427
San Dimas . . . . . . . . 428
. . . . 429
Pittsburg .. .
Alpha Shattuck-Stephens 431
. . . 433
Hammonton ..
. 435
Geo. Washinton
. 436
Claremont . . .

..

..

No.

Lodge

Lancaster . . . . . . . . 437
Tyrian . . . . . . . . . . 439
. 441
. .
Coronado
. . . . . . 442
Blackmer
Carpenteria . . . . . . . 444
Golden Gavel . . . . . . 445
West Covina La Puente . 446
.. 447
Torrance . . .
.. 448
Mount Diablo
.. 450
Van Nuys
Montebello
.. 451
. 457
Rosemead .
.. 459
Riverbank
.. 460
Mount Oso .
Paul Revere
.. 462
.. .. 463
Morgan Hill
. 465
Center . . .
. 466
Libertas-Security
Culver City-Foshay
. 467
. 469
Yorba Linda
. . . . . 473
Blythe
. . . 475
America . ...
Coachella
. . . . . 476
Golden Rule . . . . . . . 479
. 480
Acalanes-Fellowship
. 482
Clarence F. Smith
. 483
Bell . . . .
Chowchilla
. 485
. 486
Caledonia
Patterson
' .. 488
Atascadero . . . . . . . 493

. . ..

...

Charter Degree
Members
Fees
1991 Issued
1990
226
345
405
313

303
433
152
486
232
267
495
364
286
411
263
480
178
236
107
409
323
139
73
362
145
182
170
402
125
335
190

223
341
387
298
286
422
144
463
225
245
476
356
273
407
268
467
169
242
95
389
310
136
68
348
152
182
161
387
125
306
190

1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913

100
120
75
100
115
100
1SO
100
110
105
125
125
90
90
161
160
1SO
115
75
125
100
100
75

so
90

90
75
75

so
100
111

Members Charter Degree
Fees
1991 Issued
1990
407
209
243
577
165
462
329
535
294
763
407
554
132
202
225
156
249
531
211
209
164
173
195
525
450
106
432
141
390
112
113

398

203
250
563
162
419
322
492
284
720
398
523
130

200
215
153
233
508
205

204
161
169
178
506
435
0
415
135
376
106
107

1913
1913
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1918
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

115
75
100
115
100
125
150•
125
136
125
100
135
75
115
100
100
80
100
100
100
75
115
75
1SO
100
121
100
75
100
86
90

Atfil.
Fees
10

-

10

-5

--

25

..

-10
3

..
..

10
-5
0

-25

--

--

25

-

..
..

-

10

--

Atfll.
Fees

..
-

..
-

..

1
-

10

-

..
1
10
1

-

25

..

Fee for Life
Dues Membership
18
21
20
30
48
21
48
30
40
18
36
40
30
45
45
30
36
40
30
12
30
30
25
35
45
36
40
30
30
30
35

40
36
36
40
30
40
40
40
60
36
30
24
30

so
24
51
42

so

1

30

10

45
36
35

5
-

-

..
..

437.SO
420

-

1,000

-

625

-

400

835

940
7SO
630
7SO
840

-

315

--

-

999

750
840
625

--

650

..

Fee for Life
Dues Membership

40
36
40
24
60
40

-

400

..

--

60
30

1

32

756
835
625
840
835

--

--

750
630
500
625
1,0SO
500
1,062.SO
875

-

-

750

500

-

630
940

..

735
1,250
625

..

G.L
lnlt.

Passed

8
4
2
1
7
5
0
5
1
2
5
14
2
8
8
4
2
3
1
0
0
2
1
2
12
4
1
3
1
5
11

4
4
1
0
4
2
0
5
2
2
5
5
2
8
5
4
0
9
0
0
0
1
1
3
6
4
1
2
2
2
7

Raised Per Capita
5
3
1
1
2
2
0
5
1
2
4
4
2
7
3
4
0
5
0
0
0
2
0
2
9
5
2
4
3

2
5

2.915.80
4,497.68
5,118.84
3,741.20
3,755.84
5,699.52
1,914.28
6 ,0S0.56
2,968.76
3,192.92
6,088.56
4,6 13.40
3,547.16
5,346.88
3,542.44
6, 178.04
2,218.92
3, 139.56
1,273.28
5,103.68
3,936.00
1,867.32
933.16
4,650.76
2,060.24
2,451 .36
2,076.60
4,968.36
1,632.88
3,891 .28
2,543.80

.,.

(;)
I\)

"'O

:D

0
rn
rn

()

g

z

G>
U>

0

11

-I

I

rn

G.L
Raised Per Capita

lnlt.

Passed

7
5
10
2
3

2
2
10
2

2

2

2

1
1
0
2
2
2
0
1
2
1
1
0
3
2
2
2
0

0
1
0
5
2
4
1
1
2
1
2
0
3
2
3
4
1
2
6
4
1
1
3
3
0
0

0
0
2
5
1
0
1
1
0
2
0
2
4
4
4
0
1
10
5
0
1
2
4
1
0

2
9
3
0
0
4

2
1
0

2
2
9
2

5,048.36
2 ,788.64
3 ,412.00
7, 130.16
2,207.08
5,327.76
4,251 .64
6,270. 12
3,669.48
9,232.00
5,084.44
6,652.84
1,708.60
2,679.88
2,795.32
2,038.24
2 ,952.00
6 ,593.52
2 ,645.12
2,673.36
2,239.32
2,165.80
2,262.36
6,585.00
5,898.60
1.00
5,485.80
1,805.72
4,824.04
1,366.48
1,351 .36

G>

:n
)>

z

0
r

0

0
G>

rn
0

'Tl
()
)>

c

'Tl

0
:n

z

5>

.,.

c.>
c.>

No.

Lodge

Acorn . . . . . . . . . . 494
Capital City .. .. ••. 499
Westw ood • . • .. . . 501
Harbo r . . . . . . . . . . 502
Silver Cord . . . • . . . . 505
Zenith -Moun t Olive . .. 506
EI Segun do . . . . • . . 507
Sunnyvale . . . . . • . . 511
Palms-Adams . . . • .. 512
Cahue nga-L a Brea . • . 513
. 518
La Jolla
. . . 520
Ionic
'
. . . 521
Orind a-Plym outh
.• 524
Catalina Island
.. 528
Beverly Hills . . . .
. 529
Loyalt y . . . . .
.. 530
Sun Garde n
.. 532
Smyrna
Azure . • . . . • . . . . . 533
Granada . . . . . . • . • 535
. 540
Queen Vista
North Hollyw ood . . . . 542
Shoreline . • . . . . . . 543
Glend ale .. . . •. . • 544
Arcad ia .. . • . . . . . 547
Triangle . . . . . . . . • 548
Tri Square . . . . . . . . 551
Semp er Virens . . . • • . 552
Fair1ax . . . . . • • . . . 556
. 557
Hermo sa-Ma nhatta n
East San Diego . . . . . 561

.... .

.. ....

... .
. . ....

....

No.

Lodge

Foothill . • . • . . . . . . 564
• . 567
Pacific Rim
. . . 569
Chateau Thierry
Westchester-United . . . 572
S.W. Hackett . . . . . • . 574
El Cajon Valley . . . . • 576
Sunny side . . . . . • . . 577
Warren G. Hardin g •.. 579
Santa Maria .. . . . • . 580
Rialto . . . . . . . . . . 582
Wasco . . . . . . . . . . 583
Manch ester . . . . . . • 585
. 588
Malta- El Sereno •
Comp ass . . . . • . • . 590
Ecalon . . . . . . . . .. 591
Tujun ga . . • . • . . . . 592
Tri . . • . . . • . . . . . 595
Southeast . . . . . . • . 596
Lynwo od . . . . . • . . . 600
. 601
Grizzly
. 604
Jubile e . . . . . • .
. 607
Sojourner

....

. . .... .
.... .
Provident . ... .

. 609

.. .. •. 611
Canog a
Came lia . . . . . . . . . 612
Three Pillars • . . • . . . 613
Atwater Larch mont . . . 614
Heme t . . . . . . . . . . 615
R.E. Dolley . . . . . .. , 616
. . . . 617
Big Bear .. •
Magno lia Park .. •• .. 618

Memb ers Chart er Degre e
F1991 l11ue d
1990
271
440
178
303
301
635

209
308
228
223
202
893
414
101
240
564
307
198
250
510
474
471
720
433
302
175
501
210
285
229
451

253
562
170

277
732
541
194
449
214
217

200
870
395
99
231
551
293

200
248
495
438
454
679
410
295
169
471
203
284
288
538

1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

80
100
80
75
105
125
100
150
165
100
115
152
100

200
125
150
215
75
125
100
150
140
100
100
100
115
10
75
150
115
75

Memb er• Chart er Degre e
1991 l11ue d F 1990
75
1923
423
451
145
1923
492
541
150
1923
703
186
100
1923
410
425
125•
303 1923
319
100
1923
517
532
125
1923
191
195
125
1924
342
363
115
1924
145
152
115
1924
273
291
115
1924
130
136
125
1924
133
137
110
1924
250
249
115
1924
187
198
76
1924
132
126
125
1924
168
184
140
260 1924
275
100
1924
697
734
235
1925
249
258
50
1925
58
69
115
1925
216
214
115
165 1925
173
100
266 1925
271
180
1925
246
259
125
1925
272
286
100
226 1925
247
75
299 1925
307
120
1925
497
515
150
1925
260
272
100
1925
154
160
105
1925
431
447

Fee for Ltte
Dues Memb ership

Attil.
F-

-

36

10
30

30
35
20
40
45

1

-

-

5

-

750

-

-

420

--

36
36

840

30
45

937.50

36

880

--

50
35
60
25
40
48
30
48
28
40
50
55
30
50
45
24
42
44
28
40

5
10

-

10
25
5

5
5

-

5
-

Affll.
F-

25
-

735

-

546

833.33
1,000

-

583.3 3
840
1,050
1,150
630
937.50

500

-

925

585
835

Fee for Ltte
Dues Memb ership

40

10

-

20
10

5
15
5
15

-

-1

15
-

10
5

-

-·

5

40
36
30
15
42
30
40
45
25
30
35
50
50
40
30
24

-

630
750
833.33
750

630

-

-

525

-

1,050

-

-

653

36

-

45
42
35
28
40
40
18
40
30
50

950
875

36

Patte d

1
5
0
2
4
4
1
2
1
6
2
4
1
1
1
3
1
5
11
0
4
7
4

0
1
0
0
4
7
1
3
1
0
2
4
1
0
1
2
1

-

-

833.33
840

834
-

Raise d Per Capit a
3,293.76
7,496.72
2,230.40
3,583.76
9,809.84
6,826.92
2,548 .28
5,777.80
2,809.68
3,089.04
2,603 .76
11 ,273.6 8
5,186.04
1,501 .88
2,889.40
7,351 .12
3,715.96
2,708.00
3,267.04
6 ,417.68
5,673. 48
5,638.08
9,048.24
5,428.00
3,915.40
2,263.28
6,024.08
2,629.64
3,566.40
3,766.72
6,795.32

3
4
1
3
7
2
6

4
1
2
9
3
9
1
1
1
2
10
0
4

0
1
0
0
6
7
1
0
0
2
2
2
2
0
1
0
1
8
5
1
0
6
3
8
2
2
0
1
7
0
3

lnlt.

Patte d

Raile d Per Capit a

2
4
5
1
2
6
3
3
3
4
1
1
2
1
3
2
0
1
2
3
1
1
3
1
0
5
3
6
2
2
12

2
3
3
0
2
8
2
0
3
1
1
1
0
1
3
2
0
2
2
2
3
0
0
0
0
4
3
2
0
1
8

7

-

30
30

G.L
ln11.

7

w
"""

"""

.,,
:D

0
0

m
m
Q

z

G)
(./)

0

"Tl
-i

I

m

G.L
3
3
2
0
2
8
0
0
3
1
1
3
3
1
2
0
1
3
2
2
4
0
0
0
0

2
1
3
0
1
7

5,529.80
6,293.76
9,155.36
5,380.20
3,902.28
6,608.24
2.469.08
4,528.68
1,910. 16
3,587.40
1,734.48
1,775.84
3,285.00
2,495.44
1,817.48
2,207. 44
3,294 .12
8 ,848.88
3,232.80
754.84
2,905.92
2,100.20
3,518.44
3,228.52
3 ,529.28
2,923.64
3,824.92
6,477.92
3,424.36
2,025.00
5,628.88

Ci)

:D
~

z
0

r
0
0

G)

m
0

"Tl

0

}>

c"Tl

0

:D

z

);

w
"""

01

Lodge

No.

Members Charter Degree
1990
1991 Issued
fees

Affll.
fees

Point Loma
. 620
The Gardens .
. 621
Menorah . . .
. 623
AM . Daylight
. 625
Chula Vista
. 626
lamanda Park Carmelita 627
Westminster Fairview
. 629
Normal Heights
. 632
Poinsettia
. 633
Victorville
. 634
Riverside .
. 635
Composite
. 639
La Cumbre
. 642
Lomita . . . . .
. 644
Hawthorne . . .
. 647
Damascus . . .
. 648
Menlo Park-Peninsula
' 651
Crescenta Canada
' 652
Fontana
' ..
. 653
Citrol . . . . . . .
. 656
John D. Spreckels
. . . 657
Livingston
. 658
La Habra . . . ,
.. 659
Baldwin Park
. 660
Ojai
. 663
Kaweah
. 665
Reseda
. 666
San Gorgonio
. 668
John P. Jarman . . . . '669
Greenleaf
. 670
San Clemente . . .
. 671

448
315
463
208
174
341
138
322
177
149
87
665
212
237
465
176

Lodge

Members Charter Degree
1990
1991 Issued
Fees

Affll.
Fees

279
374
335
313
237
63
157
91
342
84
97
260
234
329
254

15

..

..

....
....
....
..

No.

Saddleback Laguna
. 672
Los Cerritos
. 674
Modesto . .
. 675
Willow Glen
. 676
Liberal Arts
. 677
Canby Cross
. 679
Carmel . . . . . , . , . 680
Dos Palos ' . ' ' . ' ' . 681
Barstow . . . . . . . . . 682
Redwood Empire . . . . 583
Trona
' .. ' ' ' ' ' ' '684
San Marino . . . . . . . 585
El Cerrito-Albany .. ' '686
Vista ' ' ' ' ' •. ' . . . 687
San Carlos . . . . . . . . 690
Indian Wells Valley . . . 691
Travelers . . . . . . . . . 692
Palm Springs
' . . . 693
Meudell-Oildale . . . . . 695
Crossroads
. . . . . 696
Bixby Knolls Neptune
'699
Ponderosa . . . .
. .. 700
Santa Ynez Valley
. .. 701
Lake Tahoe
. .. 707
Seafaring ....
.. '708
. . . 710
Anacapa . . . . .
Rim of the World
' ' ' 7 11
Los Altos , . . . . . . .. 71 2
Bay View-Castro Valley . 713
Blue Lakes
. . . . . . . 7 14
Wayfarer .. . . . . . . 717

438

202
948
369
700
316
192
526
539
324
400
412
147
307

290

290
126
317
331
197
494

300
152
87
437
259
137
249
421
160
142

426
187

1925
1925
906 1925
347
1925
664
1925
292
1925
185
1926
478
1926
524
1926
311
1926
380 1926
394
1926
0
1926
283
1926
270
1926
424
1926
295
1927
439
1927
201
1927
170
1927
304
1927
138
1927
316
1927
168
1927
144
1928
88
1928
638 1928
210
1928
238
1928
457
1928
166
1928

250
371
329

308
232
63
153
85

330
81
95
225
220

309
246
283
124
289
303
196
502
0
147
87
399
254
136
244
0
151
134

1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1947
1947
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
195 1
1951
1952

120
100
186
125
125
115
100
125
100
111
75
100
100
125
100
75
125
125
125
141
115
90
125
115
105
50
180
105
115
100
161

11 5
175
115
11 5
161.
65
75
100
100
100
100
100
90
150
100
140
100
100
95
115
125

80
75
125
136
125
120
100
120
100
100

fee for Life
Dues Membership

--

1,000
735

-

26
18
45
15
48
35
40
45
30
48

-

27

563

10
25

-

25
3

40
30
50
33
20
36
50
35
50
40
35
50
30
48
25
33
30

10

30

25

30
50

60
5
10
20
3

---

-5
5

----

--

--

3

--

--

-

--

--

10
10
1

----

48
55
48
18
35
20

30

-5

44

-

-10
5

-10

-

--

10
1

·5
5

48
48
24
40
40
55
50
24
36
30
52
36
16
45

50

PaHed

Raised

4

4
0
4
0
13
0
3
4
4

2

2
9
0
12
1
3
4
4
4
3
5
1
8
1
5
1
0
6

-

-

945

--

-

-

840

-

0
5
1
14
1
4

2
4
3

2
2
2

2
2

0
4
1

0
6
1
1
0
0

2

2

0
1
1
4

5

2

2

2
4
1
3

2

630
735
1,050

3
6
7
4

4
5
3

3
3
3
3
0

lnlt.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

2

0
8
8
1

3,444.00
5,236.32
4,270.52
4,047.72
3,206.88
814.44
1,973.12
1,115.20
4,299.88
1, 103.72
1,246.40
3,077.00
2,788.80
3,975.24
3,377.52
3,815 .72
1,628.88
3,959.48
3,981 .00
2,633.28
7,053.24
41 .00
1,93 1.64
1,129.32
5, 137.32
3,294.24
1,825.08
3,402.16
43.00
2,025.12
1,719.72

-

-

1,000

1,000

-

-

925

-

-834

--

-

500
750

-

1,085
750

-

-·

30
36

630
1,050

35

60

-·

36

-

2
0

2

2
1
1

2

0)

5,598.76
2,389.48
11,314.68
4 ,603.64
8,907.76
3,819.92
2,490.20
6,163.28
6,834.04
4,267.84
4,782.32
5,200.24
40.00
3 ,965.24
3,414.20
5,531.52
3,754.20
5,590.12
2,540.80
2, 174.80
4,021.48
1,854.32
4,154.56
2,166.80
1,970.04
1, 144.44
8,168.28
2,839.60
3,135.20
6, 101.24
2, 145.20

-

---

4
0

w
"""

Per Capita

1
3
1
1
0
3

-

fee tor ute
Dues Membership

18
52
35
25

1

550
375
945

G.L

lnlt.

iJ
::IJ

0

0
m
m

!2

z

(j)
(./)

.,,0
4

I

m

G.L
6
9
4
4
6
1
1
0
4
1
0
3
3
4
4
8
0
6
4
2
10
1
0
0
4
6
1
4
1
2
0

7
8
3
1
0
1
0
3
0
0
3
2
5
2
3
1
5
1
3

7

1
1
0
2
4
1
3
2
1
0

2
0
1
0
3
1
0
2

2
4
2
1
1
4
1
5
6
0
2
1
3
3
1
1
1

2
1

(j)

::IJ
)>

z

0
r

0
0

(j)

m

.,,

0

0

)>

c.,,

0

::IJ

z

j;

"'"

w

-..J

Lodge

No.

Members Ch•ner Degree
1990
1991 IHued
Fees

San Lorenzo Valley •.. 718
Es1ero . . . • . . • . . • 719
Mineral King . . . . . . . 720
Home . . . . . . . . . . 721
San Ramon Valley . . . . 724
Yucaipa . . . . . . . . • 726
Lakewood • . . . . . . . 728
Polaris . • . . . . . . • . 730
San Juan . • . . . •.. 732
Kit Carson . . . . . . . . 734
Oasis of Mara . . . . . . 735
Lemon Grove . . . . .. 736
Opportunity . . . . . . . 740
Tyre . . . . . • • . • . . 741
Soquel . ..... .. 746
Claude H. Morrison . . . 747
Highland . . . ,
.. 748
Merced
.. 749
Mother Colony
.. 750
Luther Burbank
. ' 752
Lawndale • . . . . . . . 753
San Pablo . . . . . . . . 754
Clayton Valley St. John 's 756
Lakeside . . . . . . . . . 760
Coastside
. . . 762
Arabic . . . . . . . . . . 763
Dana A. Weller •.. . . 765
Wm . Rhodes Hervey .. 767
Palmdale . . . . . . . . 769
Mission Bay
• . . . 771
Tejon . . . . . . . . . . . 773

102
156
153
552
198
213
280
160
365
162
135
433
145
436
134
218
120
175
172
348
156
129
519
195
122
157
118
87
248
205
171

Lodge

Members Chaner Degree
1990
1991 IHued F...

....

....

No.

San Oieguito . . . . . . . 775
East Whittier . . . . . . . 776
Riviera . . . • . • . ' .. 780
Silverado . . . . . . . • 782
Leland Stanford . . . . . 784
Rio Linda
...
. 786
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . 788
Oak Plains . . . . . . . . 789
Granada Hill . . . . . . . 790
General Henry H. Arnold 791
Maya . . • • • .
. 793
American River
. 795
Tila Pass •••.
. 797
Ashland . . ..
. 798
Clairemont Mesa • . . • 799
El Rancho Rio Hondo , , 800
Yucca Valley . . . . . . . 802
The Gabilan . . . . . . . 803
Moreno Valley . • . • •• 804
Simi Valley . . . . . . . . 806
Conejo Valley .. . . . . 807
Scepter . . . . . • • • . 808
Victoria Palms . . . . . . 810
Woodland Hills •. . . . 811
Old West . . . . . . . . . 813
Plaza de Los Angeles .. 814
Mount Baldy
. 815
Great Lights
.. 818
Mar Vista
.. 820
Gateway
.. 82 1
Boron
.. 822

176
231
116
144
173
195
153
457
231
96
157
143
140
132
148
241
182
105
177
154
265
161
11 0
223
268
58
126
416
211
52
92

103
1953
157
1953
154
1953
552
1953
197
1953
211
1953
273
1953
151
1954
357
1954
0
1954
133
1954
412
1954
134
1955
332
1955
132
1955
219
1955
113
1955
168
1955
379
1955
346
1955
152
1955
123
1955
501
1955
197
1956
114
1956
161
1956
115
1956
82
1956
252
1947
196
1957
160
1957

167
224
116
145
0
197
149
446
0
96
151
142
139
0
142
229
169
98
179
152
262
162
101
217
256
0
119
405
207
0
91

1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
1961
1961
1961
1961
1961
1962
1962
1962
1963
1963
1964
1964
1965
1966
1966

100
75
75
100
111
105
140
60
100
125
90
115
115
131
100
140
75
90
105
115
100
115
75
100
100
140
105
125
115
155
100

90
100
125
125
100
112"
75
100
125
90
151

200
115
100
111
125
90
105
90
136
160
100
75
135
125
125
136
150
100
90
90

Affll.
Fees
1

-

20
24
40

35

40

..

-

..

10
10
15

--

---

15
1

5
5

..
..

--

10

5
15

--

10

..

Atttl.
F...
5

..
10

..

5
5

10

-

-

25
10
25

--

--

-

--

10
10
..

10

-10

-

--

Fee for Ufe
Dues Membership

36
30
50
40
50
45
50
42

420

..

835

-

800

-

1,050

1,041 .66
756

-

38
30
24
35
30
30
36
40
25
25
42
30
36
36
30
30
40
40
55

-

735

-

625
756
840
833.35

-

-

625

-

625
625

-

840

Fee for Ufe
Dues Membership
41
40
24
50
27
48
40
35
40
40
45
35
35
40
40
36
50
24
35
40
45
34
48
26
35
35
30
52
35
15
50

854 .17

833.33

-

1,050
1,000

835
735
850

729 .17
840
-

500
730

-

940

-

625
1,090

-

lnlt.

G.L
P•Hed

0
2
4
11
2
4
8
3
7
0
3
6
0
6
1
2
0
6
0
8
4
1
1
1
2
1
1
2
11
3
3

2
2
2
9
0
1
3
3
4
0
3
2
0
0
1
4
0
2
0
3
1
2
1
1
1
0
0
2
7
2
0

lnlt.

PHsed

0
5
2
1
1
5
0
11
1
2
9
3
6
1
6
3
5
1
5
6
5
1
4

2
5
3
1
0
4
0
6
0
3
4
0
2
0
3
2
3
0
5
4
5
0
2
1
3
1
1
4
4
0
2

~

R•lsed Per C•ptt.
2
2
3
5
1
1
2
2
5
1
2
5
0
5
1
6
0
3
1
4
3
0
2
1
2
0
1
2
8
3
0

w

CX>

1,237.64
1,949.72
2, 159.24
7,432.80
2,690.64
2,838.32
3,567.80
1,989.12
4,698.60
1.00
1,765.72
5,416.84
1,730.60
4,455.28
1,721 .72
2,885.28
1,482.56
2, 136.80
4,880.40
4,553.28
2, 115.88
1,642.64
6,472.16
2,599.52
1,565.56
2,1 13.32
1,547.32
1,081 .84
3,318.76
2,566.40
2,049.36

-0

:D

0
m
m

()

0

z
G>

(/)

0

11
--l

I

m

G.L

2
7
4
1
9
1
0
0

Raised Per C.ptta

2
3
4
2
0
6
0
1
1
2
3
1
1
0
4
0
3
0
6
1
7
1
1
1
4
1
0
6
3
1
1

2,167.56
2,925.64
1,517.80
1,867.04
40.00
2,522.16
1,889.28
5,855.16
41 .00
1,344.52
2,319.40
1,908.04
2,033.00
40.00
1,851.04
2,917.64
2,357.68
1,325.76
2,429.36
2,239.24
3,493.08
2,088.44
1,371.12
2,890.04
3,398.24
6.00
1,589.16
5,514 .12
2,761.40
1.00
1,157.56

G>

:n
)>

z

0
r

0

0
G>

m

0

II

()
)>

r

"fl

0
:n

z

)>

~

w
co

Member•
No.

Lodge

1990

272
Camarillo • . . . . . . . 824
148
Gemini . . • . . . . . . . 825
80
Palm Desert . . . . • • . 826
237
Kern River Valley . . . 827
97
• 830
Bicentennial Daylight
182
Sublime . . . . . . . . 831
53
Half Moon Bay . . . . 835
106
Joseph L. Shell Daylight 837
106
Three Stars . . . . . . . 839
58
. 840
Sunrise . . . • • .
41
. 841
Irvine . . • . . . .
53
. 842
Fox-Coates • . . .
145,319
. . .
TOTALS . • • . . .
4,495 Degrees Conferred at S 1.00 each
145,319
GRAND TOTALS . . . . . . .

Charter Degree
F...

1991 IHued

255
151
89
243
108
187
54
102
130
60
50
56
139,521

1967
1967
1968
1970
1977
1978
1982
1985
1988
1988
1989
-

Affll.
F...

G.L

Fee for lite

ou.. Memberehlp

150
211
100
100
100
161
150
160
135
195
125

45
45
48
26
30
30

1,000
625

40
40
36

840
840
-

48

-

36

-

1~ ;o

50

-

lnlt.

PaHed

1
5
5
2

2
4
4
5
1
8
0
1

2
16

1
1
23
4
3
4
1.n1
1,771

139,521

22
0
3
1
1.253
1,253

Raised Per Capita
3,310.24
1,980.64
1,320.72
3,227.16
1,444.96
2,756.32
775.48
1,366.24
1
2,062.60
17
856.20
1
856.00
2
843.72
1
1,247 $1 ,798,607.68
4,271.00
1,247 $1,831,804.68
1
4
4
7
0
5
2

As of June 30, 1990, exclusive of the Research Loclges, there were 529 chartered Loclges in this Jurisdiction with a total
membership of 145,319.

/qS

N0t1hern California Research . .. . . . .)..J5
. . . . . 2803
Southern California Research
El Comino Research . . . . . . . . . . . 130
Central California Research . . . . . • • • . 75
• • . . . . . . . . 34
Alta California Research
Orange County Research . . . . . . . • . .jS'~!lp

1952
1952
1958
1959
1981
1985

~

~

For Membership and degree totals, see report of Grand Secretary
Average Degree Fees = $105.96
Average Dues = $32.30

-0
:D

0

()

m

m
0

z

G>
(/)

0

II

-i

I

m

~~1v
)

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATION
No.

Name

Location

California

San Francisco

Chartered
1850

Disposition
Consolidated December 2, 1975 with
Occidental No. 22 as Occidental-California No. 1.
Consolidated July 11, 1978 with Mt. Davidson No. 481
as Occidental-California No. 1. Consolidated Juy 3,
1979 with Ingleside-Pyramid No. 562 as OccidentalCalifornia No. 1.

G)

:D

:l>

z
0

2

Western Star

. . . . . Shasta . . . . . . . . . 1850

Consolidated October 15, 1936
with Clinton No. 119 as Western Star No.2.

50

G)

4

Berryman . . . . . . . Sacramento . . . . . . 1850

Name changed to Jennings No. 4.
Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.

m

,,

0

()

:l>

6
7

Sutter . . . . .
Davy Crockett

Sacramento .
San Francisco

. 1850
. 1850

Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Name changed August 18, 1852
to San Francisco No. 7. Charter revoked May 13,
1859.

c

II

0

:D

z
:>

t
.....

No.

Nam e

Loca tion

. . . . . . . Sonora . . .... . . . 1850

8

Tuolumne

9

Marysville . . . . . . . Marysville

11

13

Char tered

Williamette

. . . . . . . 1850

. . . . . . Portland, OR . . . . . . 1850

Nevada City

Consolidated December 1876 with
Con·
Mount Jefferson No. 107 as Tuolumne No. 8.
28
No.
bia
Colum
with
1891
solidated December 12,
15,
mber
Septe
ed
olidat
as Tuolumne No. 8. Cons
mne
1919 with George Washington No. 62 as Tuolu
No. 8.
Consolidated December 1874 with
ed
Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No. 9. Consolidat
9.
No.
thian
Corin
as
39
June 16, 1916 with Yuba No.

Dispensation 1851 . Charter never issued.
Consolidated October 13, 1910 with
da
Quitman No. 88 and Manzanita No. l 02 as Neva
No. 13.

0

. 1851

16

Eureka

No.

Nam e

Loca tion

Char tered

Disposition

19

San Joaquin

Stock ton

.. 1852

Consolidated December 1, 1986
with Channel No. 75 7 as San Joaquin No.19.

21

Hawaiian

. . . . . . . Honolulu, HI . . . . . . 1852

Occidental

. . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1852

25

26

28

. . . . . . . . Auburn . . . . . . . . . 1851

Mariposa

. . . . . . . Mariposa . . . . . . . . 1853

Georgetown

G eorgetwon . . . . . . 1853

El Dorado . . . . . . . Placerville

Columbia . . . . . . . Columbia

()

rn
rn

z
G>

. 1851
LaFayette . . . . . . . LaFayette, OR . . . .

24

~

:0

0

Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Oregon November 1851 .

15

22

t

I\)

0

(/)

... ... ..

Nashville
Nevada .

Disposition

. . . . . . . 1853

. . . . . . . 1853

'Tl

-t

:r
m

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon,
November 1851.
Consolidated September 2, 1919
with Raising Star No. 83 as Eureka No. 16.

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii
May 20, 1969
Consolidated December 2, 1975 with
California No. 1 as Occidental- California No.1.

G>

:0
)>

z
0
r

Consolidated May 26, 1976 with
Pohona No. 699 as Mariposa No. 24.

0

Consolidated December 1898 with
Pilot Hill No. 160 as Georgetown No. 25.

0

Consolidated Octob er 16, 1902 with
ed
Palmyra No. 151 as Palmyra No. 26. Consolidat
yra
Palm
as
113
No.
Zion
Octo ber 11, 1911 with Mt.
ia
No. 26. Consolidated Marc h 29, 1916 with Acac
er
Octob
ged
chan
Name
26.
No. 92 as Palmyra No.
1o, 1929 to El Dorado No. 26.

0

Consolidated December 12, 1891
with Tuolumne No. 8 as Tuolumne No. 8.

0

G>

m
'Tl

()
)>

c,,
:D

z

:t;

~

~

CJ

29
30

Chartered

Location

Na me

No.

Dia mo nd . .
Go lde n Ga te

Dia mo nd Sp rin gs
San Fra nc isc o ..

.. 1853
. . 1853

Disposition
Oc tob er 18, 1873 .
Ch art er su rre nd ere d
1966 wit h
Co ns oli da ted Ju ly 1,
Speranza
. 21 9 as Go lde n Gate
Sp era nz a ltaliana No
evelt No.
Ju ly 1, 1975 with Roos
No. 30 . Co ns oli da ted
oli da ted
ns
eranza No . 30. Co
500 as Go lde n Ga te Sp
as Go lde n
Mo un t Mo ria h No. 44
feb rua ry 7, 1978 wit h
11, 1978
. Co ns oli da ted Ju ly
Gate Speranza No. 30
nza No.
as Go lde n Gate Spera
wit h Fa r West No. 673
30 .

t

"U
::0

0

()

. . Mo ke lum ne Hill
Mo ke lum ne . . . .

31

33

Op hir

ys . . . . . . . . 1853
. . . . . . . . . Mu rph

Sa nta Cla ra
Bu tte ..
St. Jo hn 's .

34
36
37

. . . . 1853

Santa Clara . . . . . . 1853
. 1854
Bid we ll
Yreka .. . . . . . . . 1854

13 , 1883 wit h
Co ns oli da ted Oc tob er
78.
.
Calaveras No
1, 1988 wit h
Co ns oli da ted Ja nu ary
n No.
as Op hir -B ea r Mo un tai
Be ar Mo un tai n No. 76
33 .

Chartered

Disposition

Marysville

.. 1854

, 1916 wit h
Co ns oli da ted Ju ne 16
rin thi an No. 9.
Co rin thi an No. 9 as Co

Na me

39

Yu ba

44

. . . . 1854
. . Sa n Fra nc isc o .
Mo un t Mo ria h . . .

m

Q

z

G>

(/)

0

'Tl

-i

I

m

er 15, 1887.
Ch art er rev ok ed Oc tob
pte mb er 3, 1864.
Se
d
Ch art er Su rre nd ere
11, 1876 wit h
Co ns oli da ted Oc tob er
oli da ted
Jo hn 's No. 37 . Co ns
Sis kiy ou No . 105 as St.
Ho wa rd
as
h Ho wa rd No. 96
De ce mb er 8, 1924 wit
No . 37 .

Location

No.

m

7, 1978 wit h
Co ns oli da ted Fe bru ary
n Ga te
nz a No. 30 as Go lde
Go lde n Ga te Sp era
Sp era nz a No. 30 .

G>

::0
}>

47
48
49
50

52
53
54
59

62

63
64

Mi ch iga n Cit y
Gr as s Valley
Le ba no n
Fo rbe sto wn .

Ro ug h an d Re ad y
Fra nk lin .. .
Sa int Ja me s .
Gr av el Ra ng e

Ge org e Wa sh ing ton

Iow a Hill
Na tom a

Mi ch iga n Bluff
Gr as s Valley .
Sa n Fra nc isc o
Fo rbe stw on

Ro ug h an d Re ad y
Sacra me nto
Ja me sto wn
Co mp ton vil le

. 1854
. 1854
. 1854
. 1854

Oc otb er 15, 1897.
Ch art er su rre nd ere d
y 6, 1856.
Ch art er su rre nd erd Ma
29, 1857.
Ch art er revoked Ju ne
1926 wit h
Co ns oli da ted Ju ly 19,
rbe sto wn No. 50 .
Jefferso n No. 97 as Fo

. 1854
. 1854
. 1854
. 1855

No ve mb er 1864.
Ch art er su rre nd ere d
Ma y 10, 1856 .
Ch art er su rre nd ere d
Fe bru ary 20, 1875.
Ch art er Su rre nd ere d
er 27, 1955
Co ns oli da ted Se pte mb
.
Gravel Range No. 59
wit h Fo res t No. 66 as

. . . 1856
. Chinese Ca mp . .

Iow a Hill
Fo lso m .

. 1855
. 1855

z
0

r

0

0
G>

m
0

'Tl

s;

r:::

'Tl

0

::IJ

z

)>

er 15, 1919
Co ns oli da ted Se pte mb
wit h Tu olu mn e No. 8.
Oc tob er 29, 1857.
Ch art er su rre nd ere d
17, 1884 wit h
Co ns olid ate d Oc tob er
tom a No. 64 .
La ttro be No. 189 as Na

t

(11

No.

Nam e

Location

Chartered

Disposition

66

Fores t

Alleg heny

.. 1855

Cons olidat ed Septe mber 27, 1955 with
Gravel Rang e No. 59 as Gravel Rang e No. 59.

67
68

Minne sota . .
Morn ing Star

Minne sota
Stock ton .

. 1855
. 1855

69

Indep ende nt Royal Arc h Marysville

71

Nebra ska

. . . . . . . Michi gan Bar

72

E.K. Kane ..

73
74
75
76

Tyro . . . . .
Wisc onsin Hill
Moun tain Fores t
Bear Moun tain

77

Petal uma

. . . . . . . Petal uma

Nam e

78

Calve ras

80

lone . . . . . . . . . . lone

81

0

I

0

I

. . . . . 1855

Neva da City .
Dryto wn . . .
Wisc onsin Hill
Moun tain Fores t
Ange ls Camp .

No.

I

. . . . . .. 1855

I

O

•

. 1855
. 1855
. 1855
. 1855
. 1855

. . . . . . . 1855

Chart er surre ndere d May 14, 1859.
Cons olidat ed Dece mber 1, 1987
with Stock ton No. 498 as Morn ing Star No. 68.
Consolida ted Septe mber 1, 1969 with Delta No.
471 as
Morn ing Star No. 68.

(")

m
m
Q

z
G)
(/)

0

'Tl

.....

I

Chart er surre ndere d Dece mber 1, 1858.
Chart er surre ndere d Dece mber 27, 1859.
Chart er surre ndere d Augu st 29, 1857.
Chart er surre ndere d May 1870.
Cons olidat ed Janu ary 1, 1988 wit~phir
No. 33 as Ophir -Bear Moun tain No. 33.

m

Cons olidat ed Dece mber 1898 with
Arctu ras No. 180 as Petal uma No. 180.

Disposition

San Andre as

. . 1855

Cons olidat ed Octob er 3 1, 1883 with
Moke lumn e No . 31 as Calav eras No. 78.
Consolida ted O ctobe r 1898 with Camp o Seco No.
100 as
Calav eras No. 78. Consolidat ed Dece mber 25,
1919
with Moke lumn e Hill No. 298 as Calaveras No.
78.

. .. .. . . . . . 1856

0

Cons olidat ed Octob er 15, 1887 with lone
No. 80.

Chartered

Yolo . . . . . . . . . . Yolo

.,,

::IJ

Name chan ged May 2, 1855 to Corin thian
No. 69. Cons olidat ed Dece mber 1874 with
Mary sville. No. 9 as Corin thian No. 9.

Location

. . . . . . . . . . 1856

t

Ol

Cons olida ted Octob er 15, 1887 with
Nebra ska No. 71 as lone No. 80.
Cons olidat ed June 1, 1985 with
Wood land No. 156 as Wood land No. 81 .

G)

::IJ

}>

z

0
r

0

0

G)

m

82
83

85

86

Moun tain .
Rising Star

Don Pedro 's Bar
Fores t Hill . ..

India n Diggi ngs . . . . India n Diggi ngs

Saint Louis

. . . . . . Howl and's Flat

. 1856
. 1856

. . . . 1856

. . . . 1856

Char ter surre ndere d May 18, 1861 .
Cons olidat ed Septe mber 2, 1919
with Eurek a No. 16 as Eureka No. 16.

0

Cons olidat ed Octob er 17. 1874 with
St. Marl<'s No. 85 as St. Mark 's No. 85.
Chart er
revok ed June 26, 1894.

0
:n

'Tl
(")

}>

c'Tl
z

)>

Cons olidat ed Nove mber 1882 with
Gibso nville No. 158 as Gibso nville No. 158.

t......

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

88

Unity

Orleans Flat

.. 1856

Name changed May 8, 1856 to
Quitman No. 88. Consolidated October 13, 1910 with
Nevada No. 13 as Nevada No. 13.

90
91

Polar Star
North Star

Poorman's Creek
Fort Jones .. . .

92

Acacia . . . . . . . . . Coloma

. 1856
. 1856

Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
Consolidated October 15, 1905 with
Owen No. 108 as North Star No. 91 .

. . . . . . . . 1856

Consolidated March 29, 1916 with
Palmyra No. 26 as Palmyra No. 26.

A
A
CD

""O

:a
0
0
m

m

93

. . . . .. . 1856

Caymus . .. . . . . . Yountville

. 1856
. 1856

Elizabethtown
Yreka

Moved to St. Helena, name changed
October 10, 1867 to St. Helena No. 93.
Charter surrendered December 24, 1859.
Consolidated December 8, 1924 with
St. John's No. 37 as Howard No. 37.

96

Mount Hermon
Howard . . . .

97

Jefferson

98

Quartzburg

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

99

LaGrange

Merced

.. 1856

Consolidated October 16, 1913 with
Yosemite No. 133 as Yosemite No. 99.

100

Campo Seco

. . . . . Campo Seco

. . 1856

Consolidated October 1898 with
Calaveras No. 78 as Calaveras No. 78.

. . . San Juan

.. 1856

Consolidated October 13, 1910 with
Nevada No. 13 as Nevada No. 13.

94

. . . . . . . La Porte

. . . . . . . . 1856

. . . . . . Ouartzburg

. . . . . . 1856

0

z

(j)
(/)

,,0
-i

I

m

Consolidated October 15, 1908 with
Gibsonville No. 158 as Jefferson No. 97. Consolidated July 19, 1926 with Forbestown No. 50 as
Forbestown No. 50.
Moved to Hornitos, name changed
May 1860 to Hornitos No. 98.

(j)

102

105

107

Manzanita North

Siskiyou . . . . . . . . Henley . . . . . . . . . 1856

Franklin .. .. .
Folsom . . . . .
Mount Jefferson

MeadoValley
Folsom .
Garrotte . .

. 1857

Consolidated October 11, 1876
with St. John's No. 37 as St. John's No. 37.
Dispensation 1857. Charter never issued.
Dispensation 1857. Charter never issued.
Consolidated December 1876
with Tuolumne No. 8 as Tuolumne No. 8.

:a

}>

z
0

50

G>

m

,,

0

Q

,,c

0

::Il

z

108

Owen

. . . . . . . .. Scott's Bar . .. . . . . 1857

109
110

Dibble
Pajaro

Omega .. .
Watsonville

. 1857

Consolidated October 15, 1908
with North Star No. 91 as North Star No. 91 .

5>

Charter Surrendered September 27, 1879 .
Consolidated November 1, 1991
with Soquel No. 746 as Soquet-Pajaro No. 110.

t

l.O

No.

Location

Name

Chartered

Disposition

~

(J1

113

Eden

114

Mt. Zion . . . . . . . . Grizzly Flat . . . . . . . 1857

Consolidated October 11, 1911 with
Palmyra No. 26 as Palmyra No. 26.

115

Saint Mark's . . . . . . Fiddletown . . . . . .. 1857

Consolidated €9tober 17, 1874 with
Indian Diggings No. 85 as St. Mark's No. 85.

116
118
119

Windsor
Vallecito
Clinton

Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Charter surrendered January 5, 1859.
Consolidated October 15, 1936 with
Western Star No. 2 as Western Star No. 2.

. . . . . . . . . San Leandro .. . . . . 1857

Consolidated December 1, 1985 with
Standard No. 440 as Eden Standard No. 113.

0

"0

:D

Windsor ..
Vallecito ..
Igo . . . . .

. 1857
. 1858
. 1858

()

m
m

0

z

G>

(/)

121
122

Ionic .
Alamo

....
....

Iowa Hill . . .
Walnut Creek

. 1858
. 1858

Charter surrendered October 8, 1905.
Consolidated August 1, 1977 with
East Bay No. 489 as Alamo No. 122.

123

Sotoyome . . . . . . . Healdsburg

125
130

Progress
Napa City
Unity ..

San Francisco .
Napa . .. . . .
San Bernardino

. 1859

Charter revoked October 14, 1870.
Dispensation 1859. Charter never issued.
Charter revoked May 13, 1863.

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

131

Carpenter

Wood's Ferry

132

Sincerity . . . . . . . . Greenville

. . . . . . 1858

. 1858

0

'Tl
-i

I

m

Consolidated July 1, 1988 with
Curtis No. 140 as Sotoyome-Curtis No. 123.

Dispensation 1858 Chartered in 1859
as Woodbridge No. 131, the name of the location of
the Lodge having been changed to Woodbridge.

. . . . . . . 1859

Consolidated October 16, 1896 with
Greenville No. 249 as Sincerity No. 132.

G>

:Il

133

136

137
138
139

Yosemite

. . .. . . . Coulterville . . . . . . . 1859

Pacific . . . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1869

Oro Fino
Violet .
Crockett . . . .

Oro Fino . . .
Spanish Flat .
San Francisco

. 1860
. 1869
. 1860

Consolidated October 16, 1913 with
La Grange No. 99 as Yosemite No. 99.
Consolidated September 7, 1971
with Lebanon No. 495 as Lebanon-Pacific No. 136.
Consolidated December 1, 1988 with United No. 374
as Lebanon-Pacific No. 136.
Charter surrendered June 1862.
Charter surrendered October 16, 1879.
Consolidated November 2, 1972
with Park No. 449 as Park-Crockett No. 139. Consolidated December 6, 1979 with Justice No. 549 as
Park-Crocket No. 139. Consolidated December 1,
1986 with San Francisco Educator No. 166 as San
Francisco No. 139.

)>

z

0

50
G>

m

0

'Tl
()
)>

c'Tl
0

:D

z

j;

~

(]'I

No.

Name

140

Curtis

. . . . . . . . . Cloverdale . . . . . . . 1860

142

Colusa

. . . . . . . . Colusa . . . . . . . . . 1860

Consolidated April 1, 1882 with
Equality No. 240 as Colusa No. 240.

..

144

Doric
Oriental

Dispensation 1861 . Charter never issued.
Consolidated December 12, 1974
with Forest Hill No. 534 as Oriental No. 144.

151

Location

North Fork . .
San Francisco

..

San Luis Obispo ..
Palmyra . . . . . ..

San Lius Obispo
Placerville . . .

Chartered

. 1861

. . . 1861
. .. 1862

Disposition

Charter surrendered December 2, 1865.
Consolidated October 16, 1902 with
El Dorado No. 26 as Palmyra No. 26

Brush Creek ..
Brandy City ..
Carson City, NV

. 1862
. 1862
. 1862

Charter surrendered October 11, 1864.
Charter surrendered October 13, 1864.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada
January 16, 1865.

Red Dog .
Woodland

. 1863
. 1863

Charter surrendered August 16, 1872.
Consolidated October 11, 1911 with
Tyrian No. 284 as Woodland No. 156. Consolidated
June 1, 1985 with Yolo No. 81 as Woodland No. 81.

Joesphus
Rising Sun
Carson ..

155
156

Mount Carmel
Woodland ..

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

157

Washoe

Washoe City, NV

.. 1863

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada
January 16, 1865.

158

Gibsonville

. . . . . . Gibsonville . . . . . . . 1863

..

~

Consolidated July 1, 1988 with
Sotoyome No. 123 as Sotoyome-Curtis No. 123.

152
153
154

..

~

c.n

Consolidated November 1882 with
Saint Louis No. 86 as Gibsonville No. 158. Consolidated Oc\ober 15, 1908 with Jefferson No. 97 as
Jefferson No.~7.

"

:D

0
0
m
m
0

z

G>

(/)

0
..,,
~

I

m

G>

:D
)>

159
160

162

163

165

Gilroy .
Pilot Hill

Gilroy
Pilot Hill

. 1863
. 1863

Virginia City . . . . . . Virginia City, NV . . . . 1863

Silver City . . . . . . . Sliver City, NV . . . .. 1863

Alpine ..
Silver Star

Markeevill .
Gold Hill, NV

Charter surrendered September 28, 1864.
Consolidated December 1898 with
Georgetown No. 25 as Georgetown No. 25.

z

0
r

0
0

G>

m

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada
January 16, 1865.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada
January 16, 1865.

.,,

0

(")
)>

c.,,
0

:D

z

};

. 1864

D ispensatlon 1864. Charter never issued.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada
January 16, 1865.

t;,

w

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

166

Excelsior

San Francisco

.. 1864

Consolidated December 6, 1972 with
San Francisco Victory No. 360 as San Francisco No.
166. Conlidated December 5, 1979 with Educator
No. 554 as San Francisco Educator No. 166. Consolidated December 1, 1986 with No. 166. Consolidated December 1, 1986 with Park-Crockett No.
139 as San Francisco No. 139.

169

Mission

. . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1864

Consolidated April 6, 1962 with
Golden West No. 455 as Mission Golden West No.
169. Name changed October 12, 1988 to Mission No.
169.

.::.

01

.::.

-u

:0

0
0

m
m

0

z

(j)

170

. . . . . . Auroa, NV

Esmeralda

. . . . . . . 1864

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada
January 16, 1865.

U>

0

"Tl

--i

I

Transferred tq Jurisdiction of
Nevada January 16, 1865.

171

Escurial . . . . . . . . Virginia City, NV . . . . 1864

172

Lander

175

Claiborne . . . . . . . Antioch

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

176
177

Merced
Aztian .

Snelling
Prescott, AZ.

. 1865
. 1866

Charter surrenderd October 16, 1879 .
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona
March 25, 1882.

179

Mendocino

. . . . . . Mendocino

. 1866

Consolidated December 1, 1989 with
Fort Bragg No. 361 as Mendocino No. 179.

. . . . . . . . Austin, NV . . . . . . . 1864

. . . . . . . . 1865

m

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada
January 16, 1865.
Name changed October 1, 1865
to Antioch No. 175. Consolidated June 30, 1989 with
Brentwood No. 345 as Antioch-Brentwood No. 175.

(j)

::Il

180

182

Arcturas . . . . . . . . Petaluma

. . . . . . . 1866

Meridian .. .. . .. . Arbuckle . . . . . . . . 1867

Consolidated December 1898 with
Petaluma No. 77 as Petaluma No. 180. Consolidated
April 1, 1986 with Hamilton No. 751 as PetalumaHamilton No. 180.
Name changed October 16, 1919
to Arbuckle No. 182. Consolidated April 1, 1990 with
Tuscan No. 261 and Maxwell No. 288 as Tuscan
Maxwell No. 182.

)>

z

0
r

0
0

(j)

m

0

"Tl

~

c"Tl
0

:0

183

Clear Lake

184

Sierra Valley

185

Arenas

. . . . . . Clearlake . . . . . . . . 1867

. . . . . Sierraville

. . . . . . . 1867

.. .. . . . . Punta Arenas

. .. . . 1867

Consolidated July 1989 with
Callayomi No. 282 as Clear Lake-Callayomi No. 183.

z

);

Consolidated November 6, 1972 with
Loyalton No. 359 as Sierra Valley No. 184.
Name changed October 1O. 1867
to Claiborne No. 185.

""

01
01

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

188

Oakland

Oakland

. . 1868

Consolidated December 6, 1983 with
Rockridge No. 468 as Oakland-Rockridge No. 188.
Consolidated January 1, 1985 with Durant No. 268 as
Oakland Durant Rockridge No. 188.

189

Latrobe

. . . . . . . . Latrobe

. . . . . . . . 1868

195

Buckeye . . . . . . . . Winters . . . . . . . . . 1869

197
202

Paradise
Rocklin
Pentalpha

Hayward ..
Rocklin .. .
Los Angeles

. 1869
. 1869

. . . . . . . . 1870

J:.

~

Consolidated October 17, 1884 with
Natoma No. 64 as Natoma No. 64.

y

Consolidated Decem@. 1979 with
Landmark No. 253 as Landmark-Buckeye No. 195.
Charter surrendered July 20, 1972.
Dispensation 1870. Charter never issued.
Consolidated December 1, 1987 with
William D. Stephens No. 698 as Pentalpha No. 202.
Consolidated July 1, 1990 with Henry Knox-Westlake
No. 392 as Wisdom No. 202.

205

Newville . . . . . . . . Newville

212

South San Francisco . Daly City . . . . . . .. 1870

213

Bodega

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

216

Doric

San Francisco

.. 1871

Consolidated April 1. 1974 with
Starr King No. 344 as Starr King No. 344.

218

Pleasanton

219

Speranza ltaliana . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1872

221

. . . . . . . . Bodega

. . . . . . . . 1871

. . . . . . Livermore

. . . . . . • 1872

Inyo . . . . . . . . . . Independence . . . . . 1872

. . . . . . . . Rocklin . . . . . . . . . 1872

222

Granite

223
225

Maui . : .
Brooklyn

226

Hayward

227

Contra Costa . . . . . Somersville

Wailuku, HI
Oakland . .

. 1873
. 1873

. . .. . . . Half Moon Bay . . . . . 1873

. . . . . . 1873

-0

:0

0

()

m
m
g

z

G'>

(/)

,,

0

-i

I

m

Consolidated October 1, 1917 with
Olivet No. 264 as Olivet No. 205.
Consolidated July 1, 1969 with
Crocker No. 454 as Crocker No. 212.
Charter revoked October 12, 1889.

Name changed October 18, 1881
to Mosaic No. 218.
Consolidated July 1966 with
Golden Gate No. 30 as Golden Gate Speranza No.
30.
Consolidated January 10, 1945 with
Waucoba No. 413 as Inyo No. 221 .
Consolidated May 29, 1919 with
Roseville No. 432 as Roseville No. 222.
Charter surrendered November 17, 1877.
Consolidated December 6, 1983 with
San Leandro No. 744 as San Leandro-Brooklyn No.
225.

G'>
:D
)>

z
0

r
0
0

G'>

m

,,

0

()
)>

c,,

0

:0

z

)>

Moved to San Mateo. name
changed October 13, 1905 to San Mateo No. 226.
Charter surrendered October 15, 1897.

J:.

()1

--J

No.

Name

Location

229

Solano

Vallejo

230

North Butte . . . . . . Gridley . . . . . . . . . 1873

Consolidated October 8, 1968
with Emmanuel No. 318 as North Butte No. 230.

235

Surprise Valley

Consolidated July 1962 with
North East No. 266 as Surprise Valley No. 235.

238
239
240

Tyre . . . .
Pescadero
Equality . .

241

Chartered

Disposition

~

01

.

.. 1873

. . . . Cedarvill . . . . .. .. 1874

Gold Run
Pescadero
Colusa ..

. 1875
. 1875
. 1875

Consolidated December 1, 1989 with
Vallejo No. 487 as Vallejo-Salano No. 229.

Charter surrendered October 16, 1884.
Charter surrendered September 26, 1890 .
Consolidated April 1, 1882 with
Colusa No. 142 as Colusa No. 240.

-0
::0

0

()

m
m

Q

z

G')
CJ)

Santa Ana . . . . . . . Santa Ana

243

Eucalyptus

245

Laurel . . . . . . . . . Willows

. . . . . . . 1876

. . . . . . Hayward . . . . . . . . 1876

Consolidated December 1, 1986 with
Tustin No. 828 as Tustin No. 241 .

-f

I

Consolidated July 1, 1979 with
Elmhurst No. 610 as Eucalyptus No. 243. Consolidated December 1, 1987 with Lorenzo No. 709 as
Acacia No. 243.
Consolidated January 1, 1991
with Orand No. 265 as Orland Laurel No. 245.
\
,1_

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

249

Greenville

Greenville

.. 1878

Consolidated October 16, 1896 with
Sincerity No. 132 as Sincerity No. 132.

250

Adin . . . . . . . . . . Adin

251
252

Brotherhood
Bcxtie .. ..

. . . . . . . . . . 1878

Duncan's Mill
Bodie

Landmark . . . . . . . Esparto

,,0

m

- lYl1i
-

253

co

. 1878
. 1878

.. . . . . . . 1879

Consolidated September 1, 1988
with Fort Crook No. 575 as Fort Crook No. 250.
Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
Consolidated December 20, 1918
with Winnedumah No. 287 as Winnedumah No. 287.
Consolidated December 4, 1979 with
Buckeye No. 195 as Landmark-Buckeye No. 195.

G')

::0
)>

z

0
r

0

0

{j)

m

,,
,,c
0
0

254

255

257

Reading . . . . . . . . Redding

Welcome

Arizona

. . . . . . . . 1879

. . . . . . . Lemoore . . . . . . . . 1879

Consolidated December 19, 1925
with Kennett No. 456 as Reading No. 254.
Consolidated May 18, 1843 with
Riverdale No. 496 as Welcome No. 255 . Con·
solidated January 1, 1991 with Coalinga No. 387 as
Welcom No. 255.

()
)>

::0

z

);

\Oe\a> (\e_..-

. . . . . . . . Phoenix, AZ. . . . . . . 1879

Transterred to Jurisdiction of Arizona
March 25, 1882.

:.
~

No.

Name,

Location

Solomon

Tombstone. AZ.

Chartered

Disposition

8"'"

Dispensation 1881. Transferred to
Jurisdiction of Arizona March 25, 1882.

260

King Solomon's . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1880

Consolidated December 5, 1963 with
Seaport No. 550 as King Solomon's Seaport No. 260.
Consolidated December 1, 1986 with Starr King No.
344 as Starr King No. 344.

261

Tuscan

Consolidated April 1, 1990 with
Arbuckle No. 182 and Maxwell No. 288 as Tuscan
Maxwell No. 182.

"U

263

Tucson

. . . . . . . . Williams

. . . . . . . . 1880

. . . . . . . . Tucson, AZ.

. . . . . . 1881

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona
March 25, 1882.

::IJ

0

()

m

m
0

z

G>

(/)

0

'Tl

Hesperian . . . . . . . Santa Maria

265

Orland . . . . . . . . . Orland . . . . . . . . .

Consolidated January 1, 1992
with Laurel No. 245 as Orland Laurel No. 245.

266

North East

Consolidated July 1, 1962 with
Surprise Valley No. 235 as Surprise Valley No. 235.

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

268

Durant

Berkeley

.. 1883

Consolidated January 1, 1985 with
Oakland-Rockridge No. 188 as Oakland Durant
Rockridge No. 188.

269

Olive Branch

. . . . . . Fort Bidwell

. . . . . . 1882

Consolidated October 13, 191 o with
Santa Maria No. 340 as Hesperian No. 264.

264

. . . . . . 1882

.
. . . . . Tulare

. . . . . . . . . 1883

Consolidated July 1, 1990 with
Corcoran No. 490 as Olive Branch No. 269.

-l

I

m

G>
::IJ

270
272

Westport . . . . . . . Westport .
Pasadena Consolidated Pasadena

273

Anchor

. 1884

Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
Consolidated July 1, 1991 with
America No. 475 as Pasadena Consolidated No. 272.

)>

z

0

5
0
G>

. . . . . . . . Anaheim . . . . . . . .

277

Selma . . . . . . . . . Selma

. . . . . . . . . 1885

278

Southern California . . San Gabriel

. . . . . . 1884

Consolidated December 1, 1991
with Manchester No. 585, Lynwood No. 600 and Tyre
No.741 as Golden Trowel No. 273.
Consolidated October 14, 1915
with Fowter No. 398 as Selma No. 277.

m

0

'Tl
()
)>

c'Tl

0

::IJ

z
:;

Consolidated December 1, 1977 with
San Gabriel No. 546 as San Gabriel-Southern California No. 278.

"'"

O>

No.

Disposition
Consolidated September 13, 1983
with Joppa No. 508 as Madera Joppa No. 280. Consolidated Dec ember 1, 1991 with Kerman No. 420 as
Madera No. 280.

Callayomi . . . . . . . Middletown

. . . . . . 1887

Consolidated July 1, 1989 with
Clear Lake No. 183 as Clear Lake-Callayomi No. 183.

Tyrian . . . . . . . . . Dunnigan

. . . . . . . 1887

Madera

282

284

Madera

. . . . . . San Miguel .. . . . .. 1887

San Miguel

A

Cl'l

.. 1885

280

285

Chartered

Location

Name

Consolidated October 11, 1911
with Woodland No. 156 as Woodland No. 156.
Consolidated December 1, 1968 with
Paso Robles No.286 as Paso Robles No. 286.

N

'U

:0

0
m
m

()

0

z

(j)

en

286

Paso Robles

. . . . . Paso Robles . . . . .. 1887

Consolidated December 1, 1968
with San Miguel No. 285 as Paso Robles No. 286.

0

II
-i

I

m

. . . . . . . . 1888

Consolidated April 1, 1990 with
Arbuckle No. 182 and Tuscan No. 261 as Tuscan
Maxwell No. 182.

288

Maxwell . . . . . . . . Maxwell

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

290

Sunset

Los Angeles

.. 1888

Name changed October 12, 1899
to East Gate. Consolidated January 6, 1982 with
Highland Park No. 382 as Fellowship No. 290. Consolidated November 3, 1982 with Garvanza No. 492
as Fellowship No. 290.

. . . . . . . 1888

Consolidated December 1, 1989
with George E. Tutt No. 722 as Los Gatos-George E.
Tutt No. 292.

(j)

292

Los Gatos . . . . . . . Los Gatos

:0
~

z

0
r

0

294

Traver . . . . . . . . . Kingsburg

. . . . . . . 1889

Consolidated July 1, 1977 with
Dinuba No. 385 as Clarence L. Fraser No. 294.

0

(j)

m
0

II

297

Dunsmuir . . . . . . . Dunsmuir

. . . . . . . 1889

Consolidated September 1, 1985
with McClous No. 430 as Dunsmuir-McCloud No.
297.

()
~

cI I

0

:0

z

298

Mokelumne Hill . . . . Mokelumne Hill

301

Ontario

.. .. 1890

. . . . . . . . Ontario . . . . . . . . . 1890

Consolidated December 25, 1919
with Calaveras No. 78 as Calaveras No. 78.

~

Consolidated January 1, 1986
with Square and Compass No. 834 on Ontario No.
301 .
A

~

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

302

Santa Lucia

King City

.. 1890

Consolidated October 1, 1979
with Pinnacle No. 77 as Santa Lucia No. 302.

303

Porterville . . . . . . . Porterville

. . . . . . . 1890

306

Ashlar . . . . . . . . . Colton

307

. . . . . . . . . 1891

Santa Monica . . . . . Santa Monica

.. . . . 1891

""'~

Consolidated June 1, 1987 with
Lindsay No. 416 as Porterville Lindsay No. 303.
Consolidated December 1, 1988
with Golden Valley No. 796 as Golden-Ashlar No. 306.
Consolidated April 1, 1987 with
Palisades No. 637 as Santa Monica-Palisades No.
307.

'1J
:D

0
()
m

rn

0

z

G>

(./)

31 O

Sisson . . . . . . . . . Sisson

. . . . . . . . . 1892

Consolidated January, 1, 1988
with White Pine No. 555 as Sission-White Pine No.
310.

Hueneme . . . . . . . Hueneme

313

Tehachapi .. . . . . . Tehachapi . . . . . .. 1892

Consolidated July 24, 1978 with
Arvin No. 738 as Tehachapi No. 313.

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

315

Norwalk

Norwalk

. . 1893

Consolidated April 3, 1973 with
Euclid No. 519 as Norwalk-Euclid No. 315 Consolidated April 1, 1982 with Hollenbeck No. 319 as
Norwalk No. 315. Consolidated October 1, 1988 with
Centennial No. 729 as Norwalk No. 315.

318

Emmanuel

. . . . . . Biggs . . . . . . . . . . 1893

"Tl

-I

I

m

Consolidated October 16, 1902
with Oxnard No. 341 as Oxnard No. 341 .

311

. . . . . . . 1892

0

Consolidated October 8, 1968
with North Butte No. 230 as North Butte No. 230.

G>

Consolidated April 1, 1982 with
Norwalk-Euclid No. 315 as Norwalk No. 315.

r

:D
}>

z

0

319

Hollenbeck

. . . . . . Whinier

. . . . . . . . 1894

0

0

G>

rn

320

South Gate

. . . . . . South Gate

. . . . . . 1894

Consolidated June 30, 1987 with
Bellflower Paramount No. 523 as Bellflower No. 320.

0

"Tl

0

}>

322

Alhambra

. . . . . . . Alhambra

. . . . . . . 1894

324

Corona

. . . . . . . . Pasadena

330

Kilauea

. . . . . . . . Hilo, HI . . . . . . . . . 1897

. . . . . . . 1895

Consolidated December 1, 1986
with Progressive No. 578 as Alhambra Progressive
No. 322.

c"Tl

0

:D

z

}>

Consolidated December 1, 1990
with Pasadena No. 272 and San Pasqual L~ No.
452 as Pasadena Consolidated Lodge No. ~ ~1 0l
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii
May 20, 1989.

""'ffi

No.

Name

~ San Pedro

33oi

333

337

339
340

341

342

Alta

Location

Chartered

Disposition

San Pedro

.. 1897

Consolidated December 2, 1981
with Point Firmin No. 558 as Los Angeles Harbor No.
332. Consolidated July 1, 1986 with A.F.E. Irwin No.
645 as Los Angeles Harbor No. 332.

. . . . . . . . . . Bridgeport . . . . . . . 1897

Carquinez . . . . . . . Crockett . . . . . . . . 1899

Esparanza
Santa Maria

Oxnard

Fullerton ..
Santa Maria

. 1900
. 1900

. . . . . . . . Oxnard . . . . . . . . . 1901

Manila . . . . . . . . . Manila, P.1. . . . . . . . 1901

Consolidated December 15, 1986
with Winnedumah No. 287 as Winnedumah No. 287.

-u
::n

Consolidated January 1, 1984
with Pinole No. 353 as Pinole-Carquinez No. 337.
Consolidated December 1, 1988 with Point No. 503
as Point Pinole No. 337.

0
()
m

m

g

z

G>

Name changed October 13, 1904 to Fullerton.
Consolidated October 13, 1910
with Hesperian No. 264.

(j)

0

'Tl

-I
I

m

Consolidated October 16, 1902
with Hueneme No. 311 as Oxnard No. 341.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of
the Phillippine Islands December 19, 1912.

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

344

Starr King

San Francisco

. . 1902

Consolidated April 1, 1974 with
Doric No. 216 as Starr King No. 344. Consolidated
December 1, 1986 with King Solomon's Seaport No.
260 as Starr King No. 344.

345

Brentwood

. . . . . . Brentwood . . . . . . . 1902

~

Consolidated June 30, 1989 with
Antioch No. 175 as Antioch-Brentwood No. 175.

G>

::n
)>

346

Palo Alto

. . . . . . . Palo Alto . . . . . . . . 1902

Consolidated December 1, 1985
with Josiah W. Roller No. 761 as Palo Alto-Roller No.
346.

z

0
r

0

0

G>

m

347

349

350

McKinley

. . . . . . . San Pablo . . . . . . .

Sequoia . . . . . . . . Oakland

. . . . . . . . 1902

Cavite . . . . . . . . . Cavite, P.I. . . . . .. . 1903

Consolidated December 1, 1991
with Harbor No. 50.2 and San Pablo No. 754 as El
Portal No. 347.
Consolidated December 4, 1979
with Saint Elmo No. 697 as Sequoia-St. Elmo No. 349.

0

'Tl
()
)>

c'Tl
0

:D

z

5>

Transferred to Jurisdiction of
the Phillippine Islands December 19, 1912.

~
......

No.

Name

location

Chartered

Disposition

351

Palestine

Los Angeles

. . 1903

Consolidated July 1, 1972 with
Craftsmen No. 559 as Palestine-Craftsmen No. 351 .
Consolidated January 4, 1982 with Fountain Valley
Bicentennial No. 829 as Fountain Valley No. 351 .

352

Sunset

. . . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1903

Consolidated December 4, 1973
with Albert Pike No. 484 as Sunset No. 352. Consolidated December 3, 1981 with Goldn State
Benevolence No. 358 as Metropolitan No. 352.

(§)
())

.,,
:D

0
m
m

()

353

354

Pinole . . . . . . . . . Hercules . . . . . . . . 1903

Presidio . . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1903

Consolidated January 1, 1984
with Carquinez No. 337 as Pinole-Carquinez No. 337.
Consolidated December 1, 1969
with Parnassus No. 288 as Parnassus-Presidio No.
388.

0

zG)

CJ')

.,,0
~

I

m

. . . . . . Hollywood . . . . . . . 1903

355

Hollywood

No.

Name

358

Golden State

Consolidated September 1, 1977
with William B. Ogden No. 816 as Hollywood No. 355.
Consolidated July 6, 1978 with Melrose No. 602 as
Hollywood-Melrose No. 355. Name changed October 15, 1981 to Hollywood No. 355. Consolidated
January 1, 1986 with Truth No. 628 as Hollywood No.
355.

Location

Chartered

Disposition

Los Angeles

. . 1903

Consolidated August 1, 1970
with Artington No. 414 as Golden State No. 358.
Consolidated July 1, 1976 with Benevolence No. 631
as Golden State Benevolence No. 358. Consolidated
December 3, 1981 with Sunset No. 352 as
Metropolitan No. 352.

G)

:D
)>

359

360

361

363

Loyalton . . . . . . . . Loyalton . . . . . . . . 1904

San Francisco

Fort Bragg

. . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1904

Fort Bragg . . . . . . . 1904

Consolidated November 6, 1972
with Sierra Valley No. 184 as Sierra Valley No. 184.

z

Consolidated November 29, 1961
with Victory No. 474 as San Francisco-Victory No.
360. Consolidated December 6, 1972 with Excelsior
No. 166 as San Francisco No. 166.

(j)

Consolidated December 1, 1989
with Mendocino No. 179 as Mendocino No. 179.

0

50
m

.,,

0

()
)>

.,,c
0

:D

z

>

Berkeley . . . . . . . . Berkeley . . . . . . . . 1904

Consolidated July 1, 1968 with
Charter Rock No. 410 as Berkeley No. 363. Consolidated October 1, 1981 with Thousand Oaks No.
478 as Berkeley No. 363.

364

Olivet

. . . . . . . . . Corning

. . . . . . . . 1904

Consolidated October 1, 1917
with Newville No. 205 as Olivet No. 205.

fB""

No.

Name

Location

366

Las Palmas

Fresno .

367

South Pasadena

Chartered

Disposition

~

--.J
0

Consolidated April 1, 1991 with
Ponderosa No. 700 as Las Palmas-Ponderosa No.
366.

. . . South Pasadena . . . . 1905

Consolidated December 10, 1973
with Metropolitan No. 646 as South Pasadena No.
367. Consolidated August 1, 1991 with GokJen Gavel
No. 445 as South Pasadena No. 367.

\)

:D

368

Unity

. . . . . . . . . Glendale . . . . . . . . 1905

Consolidated April 1, 1979 with
Verdugo Hill No. 727 as Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368.
Consolidated April 4, 1983 with Frank S. AL.and No.
819 as Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368. Consolidated
April 5, 1983 with Meridian No. 667 as Jewel City No.
368.

0

()

m
m

g

z

G)
(/)

0

'Tl
~

I

370

Amity

. . . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1905

Consolidated Marek 1, 1963 with
Seal Rock No. 536 as Amity-Seal Rock No. 370.
Consolidated December 1, 1975 with Veritas·
Jonathan No. 545 as Amity No. 370. Consolidated
July 1, 1987 with Brotherhood No. 375 as Brotherhood No. 370.

m

"""Ill

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

371

Oceanic

Honolulu, HI

.. 1906

Name changed October 12, 1916 to
Le Progres de l'Oceanie. Transferred to Jurisdiction
of Hawai May 20, 1989

372

Gardena . . . . . . . . Gardena . . . . . . .' . 1906

Consolidated July 1, 1986 with
Ascot No. 538 as Gardena-Ascot No. 372.

G>

:D

373

Veteran

. . . . . . . . Sawtelle

. . . . . . . . 1906

Name changed October 12, 1939 to
West Los Angeles No. 373.

)>

z

0

r

0

374

375

377

Jewel

. . . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1906

Richmond . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1906

Artesia . . . . . . . . . Artesia . . . . . . . . . 1906

0

Consolidated July 1, 1973 with
Lincoln No. 470 and Bay City No. 526 as United
No.374. Consolidated December 1, 1988 with
Lebanon-Pacific No. 136 as Lebanon-Pacific No. 136.

G)

Consolidated July 1, 1974 with
Military Service No. 570 as Brotherhood No. 375.
Consolidated July 1, 1987 with Amity No. 370 as
Brotherhood No. 370.

0

m

0
'Tl
()
)>

c,,
:D

z

);

Consolidated December 1, 1987
with Florence No. 423 as Artesia No. 377.

~

--.J

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

378

Mizpah

Van Nuys

.. 1906

Consolidated December 1, 1990
with Granada Hills No. 790 as Granada Hills No. 378.
Consolidated April 1, 1991 with Clarence F. Smith No.
482 as Granada Hills No. 378.

382

Highland Park

384

El Centro

. . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1907

. . . . . . . El Centro . . . . . . .. 1907

~
......,
I\)

Consolidated January 6, 1982
with East Gate No. 290 as Fellowship No. 290.
Consolidated August 30, 1937
with Oasis No. 664 as El Centro No. 384.

.,,

::D

0

()

385

Dinuba

. . . . . . . . Dinuba . . . . . . . . . 1907

Consolidated July 1, 1977 with
Traver No. 294 as Clarence L Fraser No. 294.

m
m

0

z

G>

386

. . . . . . Manila. P.1. . . . . . . . 1907

Corregidor

. . . . . . . Coalinga . . . . . . . . 1907

Transferred to Jurisdiction of
the Phillippine Islands December 19, 1912.

387

Coalinga

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

388

Parnassus

San Francisco

.. 1907

Consolidated December 1, 1969
with Presidio No. 354 as Parnassus-Presidio No. 388.
Consolidated July 1, 1987 with Columbia No. 461 as
Columbia-Balder No. 393.

389

Palos Verdes

. . . . . . 1907

Consolidated December 1, 1988
with Seaside No. 504 and All States No. 593 as
International City No. 389.

. . . . . Long Beach

Consolidated December 10, 1981
with Avenal No. 772 as Coalinga No. 387. Consolidated January 1, 1991 with Welcome No. 255 as
Welcome No. 255.

en
0

"'TI

......

J:
m

G>
::D
}>

z
0

390

Imperial . . . . . . . . Holtville

. . . . . . . . 1908

Consolidated January 11, 1982
with Calexico No. 412 as Imperial No. 390.

5
0

Consolidated April 2, 1975 with
Henry Knox No. 662 as Henry Knox-Westlake No.
392. Consolidated January 1, 1981 with South Prk
No. 563 as Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392. Consolidated July 1990 with Pentalpha No. 202 as Wisdo m No. 202.

0

G>

m

392

393

Westlake

. . . . . . . Los Angeles

. . . . . . 1908

Balder . . . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1908

"'TI

()
}>

c:

"'TI

0

::D

z

);:

Consolidated July 1, 1987 with
Columbia No. 461 as Columbia-Balder No. 393. Consolidated December 5, 1990 with Parnassus-Presidio
No. 388 as Columbia No. 388.
~
......,

w

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

396

Apollo

Alameda

. . 1908

Consolidated December 6, 1983
with Woodstock No. 491 as Apollo-Woodstock No.
396.

398

Fowler . . . . . . . . . Fowler . . . . .. . .. 1908

400

Burlingame . . . . .. Burlingame

401

403

. . . . . . . Oakland

Bay View

Yerba Buena

. . . . . Oakland

. . . . . . 1908

. . . . . . . . 1909

. . . . . . . . 1909

. . . . . . . . Gardena . . . . . . . . 1909

Consolidated October 14, 1915
with Selma No. 277 as Selma No. 277.
Consolidated August 1, 1981
with Hillsborough No. 737 as Burlingame No. 400.
Consolidated July 1, 1986 with
Castro Valley No. 713 as Bay View-Castro Valley No.
713.
Consolidated April 1, 1979 with
Park Boulevard No. 568 as Yerba Buena No. 403.

408

Sierra Madre

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

409

Honolulu

Honolulu, HI

.. 1910

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii
May 20. 1989.

41 O

Charter Rock . . . . . Berkeley . . . . . . . . 191 O

Consolidated July 1968 with
Berkeley No. 363 as Berkeley No. 363.

412

Calexico . . . . . . . . Calexico . . . . . . . . 1910

Consolidated January 11 , 1982
with Imperial No. 390 as Imperial No. 390.

Waucoba

Arlington

. . . . . Sierra Madre . . . . . . 191 O

. . . . . . . Big Pine

. . . . . . . . 1910

. . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1910

-0

:a

0
()
m

m

Q

z

G>

(f)

0

"Tl
~

I

m

Consolidated December 1, 1971
with Vermont Square No. 515 as Moneta No. 405.

Moneta

414

......
J:>.

405

413

~

Consolidated May 1, 1987with
Altadena-Mt. Wilson No. 678 as Alta Mt. Sierra No.
408.

Consolidated January 10, 1945
with Inyo No. 221 as Inyo No. 221 .
Consolidated September 28, 1959
with Acacia No. 438 as Arlington No. 414. Consoldiated August 1, 1970 with Golden State No. 358 as
Golden State No. 358.

G>

:a
}>

z

0
r

0
0

G>

m
0
"Tl

()
}>

c"Tl

0

J)

416

Lindsay

. . . . . . . . Lindsay

.. . . . . .. 1910

Consolidated June 1, 1987 with
Porterville No. 303 as Porterville-Lindsay No. 303.

420

Kerman

. . . . . . . . Kerman

. . . . . . . .

Consolidated December 1, 1991
with Madera Joppa No. 280 as Madera No. 280.

z

>

J:>.

.......
(]1

Dispo sition

No.

Name

Locat ion

Charte red

421

Inglewood

Inglewood

.. 1911

Consolidated July 1, 1980 with
James H. Kew No. 766 as Inglewood-James Kew No.
421 . Consolidated Jl1y 1, 1991 with El Segun do No.
507 and America No. 475 as South Bay No. 421 .

422

Eagle Rock . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1911

Consolidated December 1, 1987
with Glassel! Park No. 605 as Eagle Rock Glassel! No.
422.

~

"-..!

O>

-0

:D

423

York . . . . . . . . . . Walnut Park . . . . . . 1912

Consolidated December 3, 1970
with Florence No. 649 as Florence No. 423. Consolidated December 1, 1987 with Artesia No. 377 as
Artesia No. 377.

0

()

m
m

0

z

G)
(/)

426

Midway

. . . . . . . . Taft . . . . . . . . . . . 1912

. . . . . . . McCloud . . . . . . . . 1912

Consolidated July 1, 1972 with
Taft No. 516 as Taft-Midway No. 426. Consolidated
July 1, 1973 with Maricopa No. 434 as Taft-Midway
No. 426. Consolidated April 1, 1975 with Temb lor No.
477 as Taft-Midway No. 426.

McCloud

No.

Name

Locat ion

Chartered

Dispo sition

431

Alpha

Richmond

.. 1912

Consolidated December 7, 1982
with Shattuck-Stephens No. 541 as Alpha ShattuckStephens No. 431 .

432

Roseville

434

435

Maricopa

Fairmont

. . . . . . . Maricopa

. . 1913

. . . . . .. San Francisco . . . . . 1913

"Tl
-i

I

m

Consolidated September 1, 1985
with Dunsmuir No. 297 as Dunsmuir-McCloud No.
297.

'430

. . . . . . . Roseville . . . . . . . . 1912

0

Consolidated May 29, 1919 with
Granite No. 222 as Roseville No. 222.
Consolidated July 1, 1973 with
Taft-Midway No. 426 as Taft-Midway No. 426.
Consolidated December 3, 1974
with Georg e Wash ington No. 525 as Georg e
Washington No. 435. Consolidated July 1, 1975 with
Hunters Point Naval No. 706 as George Washington
No. 435.
Name changed Octob er 16, 1918
to Acacia . Consolidated Septe mber 28, 1959 with
Arlington No. 414 as Arlington No. 414.

438

Germania . . . . . . . Los Angeles .. . . . . 1913

440

Standard

. . . . . . . San Lorenzo . . . . . . 1914

Consolidated Decem ber 1, 1985 with
Eden No. 113 as Eden-Standard No. 113.

443

Schofeild

. . . . . . . Wahiawa, HI . . . . . . 1914

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii
May 20, 1989.

G)

:D

)>

z
0
r

0

0

G)

m
0
"Tl

()
)>

c"Tl
0

:D

z

};

~

"-..!
"-..!

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

445

Wilshire

Los Angeles

.. 1914

Consolidated October 1, 1973
with James A. Garfield No. 566 as wilshire-Garfield
No. 445. Consolidated December 1, 1980 with Henry
S. Orme No. 458 as Golden Gavel No. 445. Consolidated August 1, 1991 with South Pasadena No.
367 as South Pasadena No. 367.

446

La Puente . . . . . . . La Puente

. . . . . . . 1914

Consolidated July 1, 1985 with
West Covina No. 758 as West Convina-La Puente No.
446.

447

449

Torrance

. . . . . .. Torrance . . . .. . .. 1914

Park . . . . . .. . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1914

.. . .. . Montebello .. . . . . . 1914

Consolidated October 5, 1983 with
Rolling Hills No. 781 as Torrance No. 447.
Consolidated November 2, 1972
with Crockett No. 139 as Park-Crockett No. 139.

Montebello

452

San Pasqual

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

No.

San Francisc o

.. 1915

453

Bethleham

Consolidated April 1, 1961 with
Crocker No. 454 as Crocker No. 454.

454

Crocker . . . . . . . . Daly City . . . . . . . . 1915

455

Golden West

. . . . . . . 1914

.. . .. San Francisco . . . . . 1915

. . . . . . . . Kennett

.. .. . . . . 1915

456

Kennett

457

Ramona . . . . .. .. Monterey Park . . . . . 1915

......

o:>

":D0

()

m

m
S2

z

G)
(/)

,,

0

-I

I

m

Consolidated August 1, 1985
with Triad No. 812 as Montebello No. 451 .

451

. . . . . Pasadena

~

Consolidated December 1, 1990
with Pasadena No. 272 and Corona No. 324 as
Pasadena Consolidated No. 272.

Consolidated April 1, 1961 with
Bethlehem No. 453 as Crocker No. 454. Consolidated July 1, 1989 with South San Francisco No.
121 as Crocker No. 212.
Consolidated April 6, 1982 with
Mission No. 169 as Mission Golden West No. 169.
Name changed October 12, 1988 to Mission.
Consolidated Dec ember 19, 1925
with Reading No. 254 as Reading No. 254.
Consolidated April 2, 1974 with
Belvedere-Sunrise No. 522 as Monterey Park No.
45 7. Consolidated October 1, 1980 with Maccabee
No. 823 as Monterey Park No.457. Consolidated
December 1, 1988 with Rosemead No. 702 as
Rosemead No. 457.

G)

:D

)>

z
0

50

G)

m

,,0

()
)>

,,c
0

:D

z

);

~

......

<O

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

458

Henry S. Orme

Los Angeles

.. 1915

Consolidated December 1, 1971
with Covenant No. 427 as Henry S. Orme No. 458.
Consolidated December 1, 1980 with Wilshire Garfield No. 445 as Golden Gavel No. 445.

461

Argonaut

. . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1916

Consolidated December 5, 1968
with Argonne No. 514 as Argonaut-Argonne No. 461 .
Consolidated April 4, 1983 with Alta Vista-Mt. Vernon
No. 464 as Columbia No. 461. Consolidated July 1,
1987 with Balder No. 393 as Columbia-Balder No.
393.

A

~

-u

:n

0

0
m
m

S2
464

. . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1916

Alta Vista

Consolidated December 2, 1968
with Mt. Vernon No. 517 as Alta Vista-Mt. Vernon No.
464. Consolidated April 4, 1983 with Argonaut-Argonne No. 461 as Columbia No. 461

z

G)
(/)

,,

0

-I
I

m

. . . . . . 1917

Consolidated December 1, 1986
with Security No. 581 as Libertas-Security No. 466.

. . . . . . Culver City . . . . . . . 1917

Consolidated December 4, 1973
with James A. Foshay No. 641 as Culver City-Foshay
No. 467.

466

Libertas . . . . . . . . Baskersfield

467

Culver City

I
No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

468

Rockridge

Oakland

.. 1917

Consolidated December 6, 1983
with Oakland No. 188 as Oakland-Rockridge No. 188.

470

Lincoln

472

Lodge Maui . . . . . . Kahului , HI .. . . . . . 1918

474

475

Victory

. . . . . . . . San Francisco . .. . . 1918

. . . . . . . San Francisco . .. . . 1919

America . . . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . .

Consolidated September 1, 1989
with Morning Star No. 68 as Morning Star No. 68.
Transferred to Jurisdiction ofHawaii
May 20, 1989.

G'>

:n
)>

z
0
r

Consolidated November 29, 1961
with San Francisco No. 360 as San Francisco-Victory
No. 360.

0

Consolidated July 1, 1991 with
Pasadena Consolidated No. 272 as Pasadena Consolidated No.272

0

0

G'>
m

,,0
)>

c:
,,
0

:n

z

. . . . . . . . 1922

477

Temblor . . . . . . . . Fellows

4 78

Thousand Oaks . . . . Berkeley . . . . . . . . 1920

Consolidated April 1, 1975 with
Taft-Midway No. 426 as Taft-Midway No. 426.

)>

Consolidated Octobe r 1968 with
Indian Rock No. 638 as Thousand Oaks No. 478.
Consolidated Octobe r 1, 1981 with Berkeley No. 363
as Berkeley No. 363.

A

CP
......

J

No.

Name

Location

480

Fellowship

481

Mt. Davidson

Chartered

Oakland

Disposition

~

Q)
I\)

.. 1920

Consolidated December 1, 1969
with Fortitude No. 624 as Fellowship No. 480. Consolidated December 4, 1979 with Acalanes No. 723
as Acalanes-Fellowship No. 480.

. . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1920

Consolidated July 11, 1978 with
Occidental-California No. 1 as Occidental-California
No. 1.

.,,
::0

482

483

Clarence F. Smith

Bell

.. Granada Hills

. . . . . 1920

. . . . . . . . . . Bell . . . . . . . . . . . 1920

. . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1920

Consolidated April 1, 1991 with
Granada Hills Lodge No. 378 as Granada Hills Lodge
No. 378.
Consolidated February 1, 1987
with Two Rivers No. 731 as Bell No. 483.

484

Albert Pike

486

Caledonia . . . . . . . Bakersfield . . . . . . .

Consolidated December 1, 1991
with Tejon No. 773 as Caledonia No. 486.

487

Vallejo . . . . . . . . . Vallejo . . . . . . . . . 1920

Consolidated December 1, 1989
with Solano No. 229 as Vallejo-Solano No. 229.

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

489

East Bay

Orinda .

.. 1920

Consolidated December 1, 1967
with Hillcrest No. 573 as East 'Bay No. 489. Consolidated August 1, 1977 with Alamo No. 122 as
Alamo No. 122.

490

Corcoran

. . . . . . . Corcoran

.. 1920

Consolidated July 1, 1990 with
Olive Branch No. 269 as Olive Branch No. 269.

Consolidated December 4, 1973
with Sunset No. 352 as Sunset No. 352.

0
0

m

m

0

z

G)
(/)

0

"Tl
-l

I

m

G)

::0

491

Woodstock

. . . . . . Alameda . . . . . . . . 1920

Consolidated December 6, 1983
with Apollo No. 396 as Apollo-Woodstock No. 396.

:t>

z

0
r

0
0

492

Garvanza

. . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1920

Consolidated November 3, 1982
with Fellowship No. 290 as Fellowship No. 290.

G)

m
0
"Tl

495

Lebanon

. . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1921

Consolidated September 7, 1971
with Pacific No. 136 as Lebanon-Pacific No. 136.

0

:t>

c

'Tl

0

496

Riverdale

497

Fremont . . . . . . . . Oakland

498

Stockton

. . . . . .. Riverdale . . . . . . . . 1921

. . . . . . . . 1921

. . . . . . . Stockton . . . . . . . . 1921

Consolidated May 18, 1943 with
Welcome No. 255 as Welcome No. 255.

::0

z
:;

Consolidated Ocotber 1, 1986
with Tri Square No. 551 as Tri Square No. 551.
Consolidated December 1987 with
Morning Star No. 68 as Morning Star No. 68.

~

~

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

500

Roosevelt

San Francisco

.. 1921

Consolidated July 1, 1975 with
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30 as Golden Gate
Speranza No. 30.

502

Harbor

San Pablo

503

Point

. . . . . . . . . Richmond

~

~

Consolidated December 1, 1991
with McKinley No. 347 and San Pablo No. 754 as El
Portal No. 347.
. . . . . . . 1921

Consolidated December 1, 1988
with Pinole-Carquinez No. 337 as Point Pinole No.
337.

-u

:D

0
0

m
m

g
504

Seaside

. . . . . . 19.21

. . . . . . . . Long Beach

Consolidated December 1, 1988
with Palos Verdes No. 389 and All State No. 593 as
International City No. 389.

505

Silver Cord

. . . . . . Santa Ana

. . . . . . . 1921

Consolidated July 1, 1990 with
Garden Grove No. 586 as Garden Grove No. 505.

506

Mount Olive . . . . . . Van Nuys

. . . . . . . 1921

Consolidated December 1, 1989
with Zenith No. 768 as Zenith-Mount Olive No. 506.

507

El Segundo . . . . . . El Segundo

. . . . . . 1921

Consolidated July 1. 1991 with
Inglewood-James Kew No. 421 as South Bay No.
421 .

No.

Name

508

Joppa

509

Benjamin Franklin

Location

......... San Joaquin

Chartered

Disposition

.. 1921

Consolidated September 13, 1983
with Madera No. 280 as Madera Joppa No. 280.

. . Beverly Hills . . . . .. 1921

Consolidated August 1, 1980
with Alexander Graham Bell No. 595 as Alexander
Graham Bell-Benjamin Franklin No. 595.

z

(j)
(./}

0
..,,
-t
I

m

(j)

:D

510

Cupertino . . . . . . . Cupertino

. . . . . . . 1921

Consolidated July 1, 1990 with
Sunnyvale No. 511 as DeAnza No. 511 .

z~
0
r

0

511

Sunnyvale . . . . . . . Sunnyvale . . . . . . . 1921

Consolidated July 1, 1990 with
Cupertino No. 510 as DeAnza No. 511.

512

Palms . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1921

Consolidated January 31, 1984
with West Adams No. 565 as Palms-Adams No. 512.

0

(j)

m
0
..,.,
0

~

.,,c
0

. . . . . . 1921

513

Cahuenga . . . . . . . Los Angeles

514

Argonne . . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1922

515

Vermont Square

.. . Inglewood . . . . . . . 1922

Consolidated December 5, 1978
with La Brea No. 650 as Cahuenga No. 513.

:D

z

)>

Consolidated December 5, 1968
with Argonaut No. 461 as Argonaut-Argonne No. 461 .
Consolidation December 1, 1971
with Moneta No. 405 as Moneta No. 405.

""
m

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

516

Taft

Taft . . . .

. . 1922

Consolidated July 1, 192 with
Miday No. 426 as Taft-midway No. 426.

517

Mount Vernon

519

Euclid . . . . . . . . . Norwalk

521

522

523

.

. . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1922

Piedmont . . . . . . . Piedmont

Sunrise

. . . . . . . . 1922

. . . . . . . 1922

. . . . . . . . Monterey Park . . . . . 1922

Bellflower . . . . . . . Bellflower

. . . . . . . 1922

""

~

Consolidated December 2, 1968
with Alta Vista No. 464 as Alta Vista-Mt. Vernon No.
464.
Consolidated April 3, 1973 with
Norwalk No. 315 as Norwalk-Euclid No. 315.

\)

:D

0

0

m
m

Consolidated December 1, 1966
with Orinda No. 704 as Orinda No. 521. Consolidated
September 1, 1985 with Plymouth No. 560 as OrindaPlymouth No. 521.

g

z

G)
(/)

0

'Tl

Consolidated July 1, 1968 with
Belvedere No. 539 as Belvedere Sunrise No. 522.
Consolidated April 2, 1974 with Ramona No. 467 as
Monterey Park No. 457.

-i

I

m

Consolidated December 6, 1983
with Paramount No. 785 as Bellflower Paramount No.
523. Consolidated June 30, 1987 with South Gate
No. 320 as Bellflower No. 320.

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

525

George Washington

San Francisco

.. 1922

Consolidated December 3, 1974
with Fairmount No. 435 as George Washington No.
435.

526

Bay City . . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1922

Consolidated July 1, 1973 with
Jewel No. 374 and Lincoln No. 470 as United No. 374.

G)

:D

527

Covenant

. . . . . . . Hawthorne . . . . . . . 1922

Consolidated December 1, 1971
with Henry S. Orme No. 458 as Henry S. Orme No.
458.

}>

z

CJ
r

0

CJ

G)

531

534

Alexandria

. . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1922

Forest Hill . . .. . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1922

Consolidated October 2, 1974
with Educator No. 554 as Educator No. 554.
Consolidated December 12, 1974
with Oriental No. 144 as Oriental No. 144.

m
0

'Tl
()
}>

c'Tl
0

:D

535

Alexander Hamilton

536

Seal Rock . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1922

. Los Angeles .. . . . . 1922

Consolidated July 1, 1976 with
Harding No. 584 as Hamilton-Harding No. 535. Consolidated April 1, 1985 with Granada No. 608 as
Granada No. 535.

z

5>

Consolidated March 1, 1963 with
Amity No. 370 as Amity-Seal Rock No. 370.

""
""'

CX>

No.

Name

Location

537

Utopia

......... Van Nuys

538

Ascot

539

Belvedere . . . . . . . Monterey Park . . . . . 1922

Chartered

Disposition

.. 1922

Consolidated October 1, 1981
with Van Nuys No. 450 as Van Nuys No. 450.

. . . . . . . . . Torrance . . . . . . . . 1922

Consolidated July 1986 with
Gardena No. 372 as Gardena-Ascot No. 372.

. . . . . . 1923

540

Queen Beach . . . . . Long Beach

541

Henry Morse Stephens Berkeley .. . . . . . . 1923

542

Lankershim . . . . . . North Hollywoocl

543

Signal . . . . . . . . . Long Beach

. . . 1923

. . . . . . 1923

ex
""
ex

Consolidated July 1, 1968 with
Sunrise No. 522 as Belvedere Sunrise No. 522.

-u

:D

0

Consolidated October 1, 1989
with Monte Vista No. 655 as Queen Vista No. 540.

0
m
m
Q

Consolidated December 4, 1972
with Francis K. Shattuck No. 571 as ShattuckStephens No. 541. Consolidated December 7, 1982
with Alpha No. 431 as Alpha Shattuck-Stephens No.
431.

G>

z

(j)

0

'Tl

--i

I

m

Name changed October 12, 1950
to North Hollywoocl.
Consolidated October 1, 1985
with Five Points No. 779 as Signal Five Points No.
543 . Consolidated Apri 1, 1989with Service No. 594
as Shoreline No. 543.

_.....

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

545

Jonathan

San Francisco

.. 1923

Consolidated December 3, 1963
with Veritas No. 640 as Veritas-Jonathan No. 545.
Consolidated December 1, 1975 with Amity-Seal
Rock No. 370 as Amity No. 370.

546

San Gabriel . . . . . . San Gabriel

.. 1923

Consolidated December 1, 1977
with Southern Californai No. 278 as San GabrielSouthern California No. 278.

549

Justice

. . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1923

Consolidated December 6, 1979
with Park-Crockett No. 139 as Park-Crockett No. 139.

G>
:D
)>

z

0
r

0
0

G>

m

550

Seaport . . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1923

Consolidated December 5, 1963
with King Solomon's No. 260 as King Solomon's
Seaport No. 260.

0

"Tl

~
c
'Tl

551

553

Lakeshore . . . . . . . San Lorenzo . . . . . . 1923

'

Golden City . . . . . . San Francisco .. . .. 1923

Consolidated July 1, 1980 with
Diamond No. 603 and Lake Chabot No. 770 as Tri
Square No. 551. Consolidated December 1, 1986
with Fremont No. 497 as Tri Square No. 551.

0

:D

z

j;

Consolidated February 16, 1940
with Educator No. 554 as Educator No. 554.

~
co

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

554

Educator

San Francisco

.. 1923

Consolidated February 16, 1940
with Golden City No. 533 as Educator No. 554. Consolidated October 2, 1974 with Alexandria No. 531
and Educator No. 554. Consolidated December 5,
1979 with San Francisco No. 166 as San Francisco
Educator No. 166.

555

White Pine

. . . . . . Weed

. . . . . . . . . 1923

Consolidated January 1, 1988
with Sisson No. 310 as Sisson-White Pine No. 310.

8""

'U

::D

0

()

557

Hermosa

. . . . . . . Manhattan Beach . . . 1923

Consolidated June 1, 1984 with
Manhattan No. 742 as Hermosa-Manhattan No. 557.

m
m

Q

z

G>

558

Point Firmin . . . . . . San Pedro . . . . . . . 1923

Consolidated December 2, 1981
with San Pedro No. 332 as Los Angeles Harbor No.
332.

(/)

0

'Tl

.....

I

m

559

Craftsmen . . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1923

Consolidated July 1, 1972 with
Palestine No. 351 as Palestine-Craftsmen No. 351 .

560

Plymouth

. . . . . . . . 1923

Consolidated September 1, 1985
with Orinda No. 521 as Orinda-Plymouth No. 521.

No.

Name

Location

Char1ered

Disposition

562

Pyramid

San Francisco

.. 1923

Consolidated December 4, 1973
with Ingleside No. 630 as Ingleside-Pyramid No. 562.
Consolidated July 3, 1979 with Occidental-California
No. 1 as Occidental-California No. 1.

563

South Park

. . . . . . Playa del Rey

. . . . . 1923

Consolidated January 1, 1981
with Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392 as Henry KnoxWestlake No. 392.

. . . . . . . Oakland

G>
::D
}>

z

0

565

West Adams

. . . . . Culver City . . . . . . . 1923

Consolidated January 31, 1984
with Palms No. 512 as Palms-Adams No. 512.

r

0

0
G>

m

566

567

568

James A Garfield . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1923

Searchlight

. . . . . . Long Beach

Park Boulevard . . . . Oakland

. . . . . . 1923

. . . . . . . . 1923

Cosnolidated October 1, 1973
with Wil shire No. 445 as Wilshire-Garfield No. 445 .
Consolidated December 1, 1976
with Alta Loma No. 643 as Seachlight Alta Loma No.
567. Consolidated June 1, 1988 with Belmont Shore
No. 716 as Pacific Rim No. 567.

0

'Tl

~
c
'Tl

0

::D

z

)>

Consolidated April 1, 1979 with
Yerba Beuna No. 403 as Yerba Buena No. 403.

"".....

<D

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

569

Chateau Thierry

Castro Valley

.. 1923

Consolidated October 1, 1990
with Bay View Castro Valley No. 713 and Ashland No.
798 as Crow Canyon No. 569.

570

Military Service . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1923

Consolidated July 1, 1974 with
Richmond No. 375 as Brotherhood No. 375.

571

Francis K. Shattuck . . El Cerrito . . . . . . . . 1923

Consolidated December 4, 1972
with Henry Morse Stephens No. 541 as ShattuckStephens No. 541.

J>,

co

""

"U

:n
0

0
m

m

572

James Madison . . . . Playa del Rey

. . . . . 1923

Consolidated April 1, 1976 with
Westchester No. 703 as Westchester-Madison No.
572. Consolidated December 7, 1978 with Valley
Forge No. 587 as Westchester-United No. 572. Consolidated December 1, 1991 with Menorah No. 623
as Westchester Menorah No. 572.

573

Hillcrest . . . . . . . . Orinda . . . . . . . . . 1923

Consolidated December 1, 1967 with
East Bay No. 489 as East Bay No. 489.

575

Fort Crook

Consolidated September 1, 1988
with Adin No. 250 as Fort Crook No. 250.

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

578

Progressive

Alhambra

.. 1923

Consolidated December 1, 1986
with Alhambra No. 322 as Alhambra Progressive No.
322.

581

Security . . . . . . . . Bakersfield . . . . . . •. 1924

Consolidated December 1, 1986
with Libertas No. 466 as Libertas-Security No. 466.

584

Harding . . . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1924

Consolidated July 1, 1976 with
Alexander Hamilton No. 535 as Hamilton-Harding
No. 535.

. . . . . . Fall River Miiis . . . . . 1921

0

z

(j)
(f)

0

"Tl
-l

I

m

(j)

:n
)>

z

0
r

0
0

585

Manchester . . . . . . Downey

. . . . . . . .

Consolidated December 1, 1991
with Anchor No. 273, Lynwood No. 600, and Tyre
No.741 as Golden Trowel No. 273.

(j)

m
0
"Tl

0

)>

586

Garden Grove

. . . . Garden Grove . . . . . 1924

Consolidated July 1, 1990 with
Silver Cord No. 505 as Garden Grove No. 505.

c"Tl

0

:n

z

. . . . . Playa del Rey

. . . . . 1924

587

Valley Forge

588

El Sereno . . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1924

Consolidated December 7, 1978
with Westchester-Madison No. 572 as WestchesterUnited No. 572.

>

Consolidated December 1, 1986
with Malta No. 661 as Malta-El Sereno No. 588.
~

~

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

589

Kauai

Lihue, HI

.. 1924

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii
May 20, 1989.

593

All States

. . . . . . . Long Beach

. . . . . . 1924

Consolidate d December 1, 1988
with Palos Verdes No. 389 and Seaside No. 504 as
International City No. 389.

594

Service

. . .. . .. . Long Beach

. . . . . . 1924

Consolidate d April 1, 1989 with
Signal Five Points No. 543 as Shoreline No. 543.

:.

'f

-u

:D

0

()

595

AlexanderG raham Bell

596

Gardian

597

Truth

No.

Name

598

599

Los Angeles . . . . . . 1924

. . . . . . . . SoU1h Gate

. . . . . . 1924

. . . . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1924

Pear1 Harbor

Carmelita

Consolidate d August 1, 1980
with Benjamin Franklin No. 509 as Alexander Graham
Bell-Benjam in Franklin No. 595. Consolidate d
January 1, 1984 with John Marshall No. 636 as Tri No.
595. Consolidate d January 1, 1992 with Composite
No. 639 as Composite No. 595.

z

(j)

0

'Tl
~

I

m

Consolidate d February 14, 1939
with Beacon of the West No. 628 as TrU1h No. 628.

Chartered

Disposition

Honolulu, HI

.. 1924

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii
May 20, 1989.

. . . . . . . 1924

Q
G)

Consolidate d June 1, 1986 with
Jordan-Gold en Bowl No. 654 as Guardian JordanGolden Bowl No. 596. Name changed October 16,
1987 to SoU1heast No. 596.

Location

. . . . . . . Pasadena

m

m

Consolidate d December 1, 1981
with Lamanda Park No. 627 as Lamanda Park Carmelita No. 627.

G>

:D
}>

600

Lynwood

. . . . . . . Bellflower

... ....

Consolidate d December 1, 1991
with Anchor No. 273, Manchester No. 585, and Tyre
No. 741 as Golden Trowel No. 273.

z
0

r

0

0

Ci)

602

Melrose . . . . . . . . Hollywood . . . . . . . 1925

Consolidate d July 6, 1978 with
Hollywood No. 355 as Hollywood No. 355.

m

,,

0

()
}>

603

Diamond

. . . . . . . Hayward . . . . . . . . 1925

Consolidate d July 1, 1980 with
Lakeshore No. 551 and Lake Chabot No. 770 as Tri
Square No. 551.

605

Glassell Park

. . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1925

r

,;
0

:D

z

)>

Consolidate d December 1. 1987
with Eagle Rock No. 422 as Eagle Rock Glassel! No.
422.

608

Granada . . . . . . . . Alhambra

. . . . . . . 1925

Consolidate d April 1, 1985 with
Hamilton Harding No. 535 as Granada No. 535.

~

No.

Name

Location

Chartere d

Disposition

610

Elmhurst

Hayward

. . 1925

Consolidated July 1, 1979
with Eucalyptus No. 243 as Eucalyptus No. 243.

611

OwensmoU1h . . . . . Owensmouth

. . . . . 1925

612

Temple City . . . . . . Temple City

. . . . . . 1925

613

Three Pillars . . . . . . Sacramento . . . . . .

.:..

~

Subsequent to the name of the
commun ity being changed to Canoga Park, the name
of the Lodge was changed October 15, 1931 to
Canoga.

"0

Consolidated December 1. 1982
with Camellia No. 805 as Camellia No. 612.

:0

Consoldiated January 1, 1992
with Travelers No. 692 as Three Pillars No. 613.

0

()

m
m

z

(j)
(/)

614

. Los Angeles . . . . . . 1925

Larchmont

Consolidated December 1, 1982
with Atwater No. 622 as Atwater Larchmont No. 614.

,,

0

-I
I

m

...

. . . . . . 1925

. Seal Beach

Name changed October 14, 1937

616

Seal Beach

618

Southland . . . . . . . Glendale . . . . . . . . 1925

No.

Name

Location

Chartere d

Disposit ion

619

Neptune

Long Beach

.. 1925

Consolidated December 1, 1976
with Bixby Knolls No. 699 as Bixby Knolls-Neptune
No. 699.

622

Atwater

. . . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . • . 1925

Consolidated December 1, 1982
with Larchmont No. 614 as Atwater Larchmont No.

to A.E. Dolley. Consolidated March 1, 1989 with Los
Alamitos No. 809 as R.E. Dolley No. 616.
Consolidated July 1, 1979 with
Heritage No. 764 as Southland Heritage No. 618.
Consolidated June 1, 1990 with Magnolia Park No.
715 as Magnolia Park No. 618.

614 .

(j)

:D
)>

623

624

625

Menorah

. . . . . . . Playa del Rey

Fotitude . . . . . . . . Oakland

. . . . .

.. . .. . . . 1925

Angeles Mesa . . . . . Garden Grove . . . . . 1925

Consolidated December 1, 1991
with Westchester United No. 572 as Westchester
Menorah No. 572.
Consolidated December 1, 1969
with Fellowship No. 480 as Fellowship No. 480.
Consolidated April 1, 1989 with
Orange County Daylight No. 833 as A.M. Daylight No.
625.

627

Lamanda Park

. . . . Pasadena

. . . . . . . 1925

z

0
r

0
0

(j)

m
0

,,

()
)>

,,

!:
0

:0

z

);:

Consolidated December 1, 1981
with Carmelita No. 599 as Lamanda Park Carmeltla
No. 627.

.:..

(0

......

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

.::..

<D
CD

628

Beacon of the West

Los Angeles

.. 1926

Consolidated February 14, 1939
with Truth No. 597 as Truth No. 628. Consolidated
January 1, 1986 with Hollywood No. 355 as Hollywood No. 355.

629

Fairview . . . . . . . . El Segundo

. . . . . . 1926

Consolidated July 7, 1978 with
Westminster No. 787 as Westminster-Fairview No.
629.

630

Ingleside

. . . .. 1926

Consolidated December 4, 1973
with Pyramid No. 562 as Ingleside-Pyramid No. 562.

0
0
rn
rn

631

Benevolence

. . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1926

Consolidated July 1, 1976 with
Golden State No. 358 as Golden State Benevolence
No. 358.

z

-0

::D

.. . . . . . San Franciso

0

(j)
(/)

0

II

-i

636

John Marshall . . . . . Beverly Hills . . . . . . 1926

Consolidated January 1, 1984
with Alexander Graham Bell-Benjamin Franklin No.
595 as Tri No. 595.

637

Palisades

Consolidated April 1, 1987 with
Santa Monica No. 307 as Santa Monica-Palisades
No. 307.

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

638

Indian Rock

Berkeley

. . 1926

Consolidated October 1, 1968
with Thousand Oaks No. 478 as Thousand Oaks No.
478.

639

Composite

. . . . . . . Santa Monica

. . . . . . Santa Monica

. . . . . 1926

. . . .

I

rn

Consolidated January 1, 1992
with Tri No. 595 as Composite No. 595.
(j)

::D

640

Veritas . . . . . . . . . San Francisco . . . . . 1926

Consolidated December 3, 1963
with Jonathan No. 646 as Veritas-Jonathan No. 545.

641

James A. Foshay . . . Playa del Rey

Consolidated December 4, 1976
with Culver City No. 467 as Culver City-Foshay No.
467.

. . . . . 1926

}>

z
0
r

0

0

(j)

rn
0

II

0

642

La Cumbre

. . . . . . Santa Barbara . . . . . 1926

Consolidated December 1, 1990
w ith Magnolia Lodge No. 242 as Magnolia-La
Cumbre No. 242.

}>

c
II
0

::D

z

};

643

Alta Loma . . . . . . . Long Beach

645

A.F.E. Irwin

. . . . . . 1926

. . . . .. Lomita . . . . . . . . . 1926

Consolidated December 1, 1976
with Searchlight No. 567 as Searchlight-Alta Loma
No. 567.
Consolidated July 1, 1986 with
Los Angeles Harbor No. 332 as Los Angeles Harbor
No. 332.

~

l8

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

646

Metropolitan

South Pasadena

.. 1926

Consolidated December 10, 1973
with South Pasadena No. 367 as South Pasadena No.
367.

649

Florence

. . . . . . . Walnut Park

. . . . . . 1927

Consolidated December 3, 1970
with York No. 423 as Florence No. 423.

650

La Brea

. . . . . . . . Los Angeles

. . . . . . 1927

Consolidated December 5, 1978
with Cahuenga No. 513 as Cahuenga-La Brea No.
513.

01

0
0

"0

:0

()

m

m

651

652

Menlo Park

. . . . . . Menlo Park

Crescenta Valley

. . . La Crescenta

. . . . . . 1927

. . . . . 1927

Consolidated April 1, 1987 with
Peninsula No. 745 as Menlo Park Peninsula No. 651.
Consolidated December 1, 1988
with La Canada-Oakwood No. 739 as Crescenta
Canada No. 652.

654

Jordan

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

655

Monte Vista

Long Beach

. . 1927

Consolidated October 1, 1989
with Queen Beach No. 540 as Queen Vista No. 540.

661

Malta

.. . . . . .. . Los Angel es . . . .. •. 1928

Consolidated December 1, 1986
with El Sereno No. 588 as Malta-El Sereno No. 588.

662

Henry Knox . . . . . . Los Angeles . . . . . . 1928

Consolidated April 2, 1975 with
Westlake No. 392 as Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392.

664

667

Oasis

. . . . . . . . Huntington Park . . . . 1927

. . . . . . . . . El Centro . . . . . . . . 1928

Meridian .. . . . . . . Glendale .. . . . . . . 1928

2

z

G>

(/)

.,,

0

-I

I

m

Consolidated October 1, 1979
with Golden Bowl No. 755 as Jordan-Golden Bowl
No. 654. Consolidated June 1, 1986 with Guardian
No. 596 as Guardian Jordan-Golden Bowl No. 596.
Name changed October 15, 1987 to Southeast No.
596.

Consolidated August 30, 1937
with El Centro No. 384 as El Centro No. 384.
Consolidated April 5, 1983 with
Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368 as Jewel City No. 368.

G>
:0
)>

z

0
r

0

0
G>
m

.,,0
()
)>

r

672

673

Laguna Beach

Far West

. . . . Laguna Beach .. .. . 1929

. . . . .. . San Francisco . . . . . 1929

Consolidated April 1, 1987 with
Saddleback Valley No. 832 as Saddle Laguna No.
672 .

=n

0

:0

z

);:

Consolidated July 11, 1978 with
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30 as Golden Gate
Speranza No. 30.

01

0

No.

Name

678

Altadena

Location

Chartered

....... Altadena . . . . .

~

. . 1930

Disposition
<J1
0
l\J

Consolidated July 1, 1979 with
Mt. Wilson No. 794 as Altadena-Mt. Wilson No. 678.
Consolidated May 1, 1987 with Sierra Madre No. 408
as Alta Mt. Sierra No. 408.

686

Albany . . . . . . . . . San Pablo . . . . . . . 1945
Consolidated December 6, 1982
with El Ceritto No. 705 as El Cerrito-Albany No. 686.

688

Oildale

. . . . . . . . Bakersfield . . . . . . . 1946
Consolidated January 1, 1985

'1)

:::0

with Meudell No. 695 as Meudell-Oildale No. 695.
692

Travelers

. . . . . . . Sacramento

0

. . . . . .

()

m
m

Consolidated January 1, 1992
with Three Pillars No. 613 as Three Pillars No. 613.
694
695

697

San Antonio . . . . . . Whittier

0

z

G>

. . . . . . . . 1947

(/')

Consolidated April 2, 1982 with
Tyre No. 741 as Tyre No. 741.
Meudell

0

"Tl
--f

. . . . . . . . Bakersfield . . . . . . . 1948

I

m

Consolidated January 1, 1982
with Oildale No. 688 as Meudefl-Oifdale No. 695.
Saint Elmo

. . . . . . Alameda . . . . . . . . 1948
Consolidated December 4, 1979
with Sequoia No. 349 as Sequoia-St. Elmo No. 349.

698

William D. Stephens

. Los Angeles . . . . .. 1948
Consolidated December 1, 1987
with Pentalpha No. 202 as Pentalpha No. 202.

No.

Name

Location

·Chartered

Disposition

699

Bixby Knolls

Long Beach

.. 1949

Consolidated December 1, 1 976
with Neptune No. 619 as Bixby Knolls Neptune No.
699.

700

Ponderosa.

. . . . . Fresno . . . . . . . .• . 1949

Consolidated April 1, 1991 with
Las Palmas No. 366 as Las Palmas-Ponderosa. No.
366.

G>
:::0
)>

702

703

704

Rosemead

Rosemead . . . . . . . 1949

Westchester

. . . . . Playa del Rey

. . . . . 1950

Orinda . .. . . . . . . Orinda . . . . . . . . . 1950

705

El Cerrito

..... .

706

Hunters Point Naval

El Cerrito . . . . . . . . 1950

. San Franc isco .. .. . 1950

z

0
r

Cosolidated December 1, 1988
with Monterey Park No. 457 as Rosemead No. 457.

0

0
G>

m

Consolidated April 1, 1976 with
James Madison No. 572 as Westchester-Madison
No. 572.
Consolidated December 1, 1966
with Piedmont No. 521 as Orinda No. 521.
Consolidated December 6, 1982
with Albany No. 686 as El Cerrito-Albany No. 686.

0..,,
()
)>

c
..,,
0

:IJ

z

>

Consolidated July l, 1975 with
George Washington No. 535.

g
(.>

No.

Name

709

Lorenzo

713

Castro Valley

715

Magnolia Park

716

Belmont Shore

Location

Chartered

San Lorenzo

.. 1950

. . . . . Castro Valley

. . . . . 1951

. . . . Burbank

. . . . . . . . 1951

. . . . Seal Beach

. . . . . . 1952

Disposition

0

""

Consolidated December 1, 1987
with Eucalyptus No. 243 as Acacia No. 243.
Consolidated July 1, 1986 with
Bay View No. 401 as Bay View-Castro Valley No. 713.
Consolidated October 1, 1990 with Chateau Thierry
No. 569 and Ashland No. 798 as Crow Canyon No.
569.

"1J

:0

Consolidated June 1, 1990 with
Southland Heritage No. 618 as Magnolia Park No.
618.
Conslidated June 1, 1988 with
Searchlight-AJta Loma No. 567 as Pacific Rim No.
567.

0

()

m
m

g

z
G)
(J)

0

""Tl
-l

I

m

717

Wayfarer

722

George E. Tun

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

723

Acalanes

La Fayette

.. 1953

Consolidated December 4, 1979
with Fellowship No. 480 as Acalanes-Fellowship No.

725

(11

. . . . . . . Whittier

Consolidated December 1, 1991
with East Whittier No. 776 as East Whittier Wayfarer
No. 776.

. . . . Los Gattos . . . . . . . 1953

.

Saint John's . . . . . . Concord . . . . . . . . 1953

Consolidated December 1, 1989
with Los Gatos No. 292 as Los Gatos-George E. Tun
No. 292.

480 .

Consolidated March 1, 1986 with
Clayton Valley No. 756 as Clayton Valley Saint John's
No. 756.

G)

:0
~

727

Verdugo Hills . . . . . Glendale . . . . . . . . 1953

Consolidated April 1, 1979 with
Unity No. 368 as Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368.

z

0
r

0
0

G)

729

731

Centennial

Two Rivers

. . . . . . Norwalk

. . . . . . . . 1954

. . . . . . Bell . . . . . . . . . . . 1954

m

Consolidated October 1, 1988
with Norwalk No. 315 as Norwalk No. 315.

0

Consolidated February 1987
with Bell No. 483 as Bell No. 483.

~
c""Tl

""Tl

0

:0

733

Golden Empire

. . . . Sacramento

. . . . . . 1954

Consoldiated December 1, 1990
with Capitol City No. 499 as Capitol City Golden
Empire No. 499.

734

Kit Carson . . . . . . . Sacramento

. . . . . . 1954

Consolidated December 1, 1990
with Union City No. 58 as Union Kit Carson No. 58.

z

};

U'I
0
U'I

No.

Name

737

Hillsborough

738

Arvin . . . . . . . . . . Arvin . . . . . . . . . . 1954

739

Location

La Canada

Chartered

Burlingame

. . . . . . La Cresenta

.. 1954

. . . . . . 1954

Disposition

(11

0

O'l

Consolidated January 15, 1975
with Millbrae No. 792 as Patriot No. 737. Name
changed October 11, 1979 to H~lsborough No. 737.
Consolidated August 1, 1981 with Burlingame No.
400 as Burlingame No. 400.
Consolidated July 24, 1978 with
Tehachapi No. 313 as Tehachapi No. 313.

.,,

:n
0

Consolidated July 1, 1979 with
Oakwood No. 743 as La Canada-Oakwood No. 739.
Consolidated December 1, 1988 with Crescenta Valley No. 652 as Crescenta Canada No. 652.

()

m
m

Q

z

G>
(j)

741

Tyre . .. . . . . . . . Downey

. . . . . . . . 1955

0
..,,

Consolidated April 2, 192 with
San Antonio No. 694 as Tyre No. 741 . Consolidated
December 1, 1991 with Anchor No. 273, Manchester
No. 585, and

-I

I

m

Lynwood No. 600.
742

Morningside Park . . . Inglewood .. . . . . . 1955

Consolidated December 5, 1972
with Manhattan No. 817 as Manhattan No. 742. Consolidated June 1, 1984 with Hermosa No. 557 as
Hermosa Manhattan No. 55 7.

No.

Name

Location

Chart·ered

Disposition

743

Oakwood

La Crescenta

.. 1955

Consolidated July 1, 1979 with
La Canada No. 739 as La Canada-Oakwood No. 739.

744

San Leandro

. . . . . San Leandro .. . . . . 1955

Consolidated December 6, 1983
with Brooklyn No. 225 as San Leandro-Brooklyn No.
225.

745

Peninsula . . . . . . . Belmont

G>

746

Soquel

. . . . . . . . 1955

. . . . . . .. Soquel . . . . . . . . .

Consolidated April 1, 1987 with
Menlo Park No. 651 as Menlo Park Peninsula No. 651 .
Consolidated November 1, 1991
with Pajaro No. 11 Oas Soquel-Pajaro No. 110.

:n
)>

z

0

r

0

0
G>

m

..,,

0

751

754

755

Hamilton

. . . . . . . Novato . . . . . . . . . 1955

San Pablo . . . . . . . Richmond

Golden Bowl

. . . . . South Gate

. . . . . . .

. . . . . . 1955

Consolidated April 1, 1986 with
Petaluma No. 180 as Petaluma-Hamilton No. 180.
Consolidated December 1, 1991
with McKinley No. 347, and Harbor No. 502 as El
Portal No. 347.

()

)>

c
..,,
0
:n

z

)>

Consolidated October 1, 1979
with Jordan No. 654 as Jordan-Golden Bowl No. 654.

(11

0

""

No.

Name

756

Clayton Valley

757

Channel . . . . . . . . Stockton . . . . . . . . 1956

758

West Covina

759

761

Locat ion

Chartered

Conco rd

.. 1955

. . . . . West Covina . . . . . . 1956

El Rancho . . . . . . . Whittier

Dispo sition
Consolidated March 1, 1986
with Saint John's No. 725 as Cayton Valley Saint
John's No. 756.
Consolidated December 1, 1986
with San Joaquin No. 19 as San Joaquin No. 19.
Consolidated July 1, 1985 with
La Puente No. 446 as West Covina-La Puente No.
446.

-0
:::0

0

0

m

. . . . . . . . 1956

m

Consolidated July 1, 1988 with
Rio Hondo No. 800 as El Rancho Rio Hondo No. 800.

0

z

G)
(/)

Josiah W. Roller

. . . Palo Alto . . . . . . . . 1956

766

James H. Kew

No.

Name

Locat ion

Chartered

Dispo sition

768

Zenith

Van Nuys

. . 1957

Consolidated December 1,1 989
with Mount Olive No. 506 as Zenith-Mount Olive No.
506. Consolidated December 1, 1990 with Mount
Olive No. 506 as Zenith-Mount Olive No. 506.

770

Lake Chabot

. . . . . Hayward . . . . . . .. 1957

Consolidated July 1, 1980 with
Lakeshore No. 551 and Diamond No. 603 as Tri
Square No. 551 .

. . . 1956

Consolidated July 1, 1979 with
Southland No. 618 as Southland Heritage No. 618.

. . . . Inglewood . . . . . . . 1956

Consolidated July 1, 1980 with
Inglewood No. 421 as Inglewood-James Kew No.
421 . Consolk:iated JtAy 1, 1991 with El Segundo No.
507 as South Bay No. 421 .

Avenal . . . . . . . . . Avenal . . . . . . . . . 1957
Tejon

774

Waikiki

. . . . . . . . . Bakersfield . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . Honolulu, HI . . . . .. 1957

776

East Whittier

777

Pinnacle . . . . . . . . Soledad

-I

I

m

Heritage . . . . . . . . North Hollywood

773

.,,

0

Consolidated December 1, 1985
with Palo Alto No. 346 as Palo Alto-Roller No. 346.

764

772

()l

0

CD

. . . . . Whittier

Consolidated December 10, 1981
with Coalinga No. 387 as Coalinga No. 387.

:::0

)>

z

0
r

0

0

G)

m
Consolidated December 1, 1991
with Caledonia No. 486 as Caledonia No. 486.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Hawaii May 20, 1989.
Consolidated December 1, 1991
with Wayfarer No. 71 7 as East Whittier No. 776.

. . . . . . . . 1957

G)

.,,

0

~

c.,,
0

:::0

z

)>

Consolidated Octob er 1, 1979
with Santa Lucia No. 302 as Santa Lucia No. 302.
()l

0

Cf)

No.

Chartered

Disposition

.. 1957

Consolidated December 1, 1990
with Mother Colony No. 750 as La Mirada No. 750.

. . . . . . Long Beach . . . . . . 1957

Consolidated October 1, 1985
with Signal No. 543 as Signal Five Points No. 543.

Location

Name

Buena Park

778

La Mirada

779

Five Points

781

Rolling Hills .. . . . . Lomita .. . . . . . .. 1957

783
784

785

Mojave
Leland Stanford

Paramount

. 1958
. 1958

Mojave
Chico

. . . . . . 1958

. . . . . . South Gate

Consolidated October 5, 1983
with Torrance No. 447 as Torrance No. 447.
Charter revoked October 12, 1983.
Consolidated December 1, 1990
with Chico Lodge No. 111 as Chico-Leland Stanford
No. 111 .
Consolidated December 6. 1983
with Bellflower No. 523 as Bellflower-Paramount No.
523.

. . . . . Huntington Beach . . . 1958

Consolidated July 7, 1978 with
Fairview No. 629 as Westminster-Fairview No. 629.

. . . .. 1958

Consolidated December 1, 1990
with Mizpah No. 378 as Granada H~ ls No. 378. Consolidated April 1, 1991 with Clarence F. Smith No. 482
as Granada Hills No. 378.

787

Westminster

790

Granada Hills . . . . . Granada Hills

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

792

Millbrae

Millbrae

.. 1959

Consolidated January 15, 1975
with Hillsborough No. 737 as Patriot No. 737.

794

Mt. Wilson . . . . . . . Altadena . . . . . . . . 1959

796

Golden Valley . . . . . San Bernardino

. . . . 1959

°'.....
0

-u
:0
0

0
rn
rn

S2

z

G)
(/)

0

'Tl

-i

I

rn

Consolidated July 1, 1979 with
Altadena No. 678 as Altadena-Mt. Wilson No. 678.
Consolidated December 1, 1988
with Ashlar No. 306 as Golden Ashlar No. 306.

G)
:0
)>

z
0

798

Ashland . . . . . . . . Castro Valley

. . . . . 1960

Consolidated October 1, 1990
with Chateau Thierry No. 569 and Bay View-Castro
Valley No. 713 as Crow Canyon No. 569.

r
0
0

G)

m

0

'Tl

799

Bay Claire Vista . . . . San Diego . . . . . .. 1960

800

Rio Hondo

.. . . . . El Monte . . . .. .. . 1960

801

Koolau

805

Camellia . . . . . . . . Temple City

Name changed October 15, 1964
to Clairemont Mesa No. 799.

~

c'Tl

0

.. .. . . . . Kailua. HI

. . . . . . . 1960

. . . . . . 1961

Consolidated July 1, 1988 with
El Rancho No. 759 as El Rancho Rio Hondo No. 800.

:0

z

);

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii
May 20, 1989.
Consolidated December 1, 1982
with Temple City No. 612 as Camellia No. 612.
(]l

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

CJl

.....

I\)

809

Los Almitos

812

Triad . . . . . . . . .. Montebello .. . . . . . 1963

Consolidated August 1, 1985
with Montebello No. 451 as Montebello No. 451 .

814

Plaza de Los Angeles

Consolidated November 1, 1990
with Los Angeles No. 42 as Los Angeles No. 42.

Seal Beach

.. 1962

Los Angeles . . . . . . 1963

Consolidated March 1, 1989 with
R.E. Dolley No. 616 as R.E. Dolley No. 616.

\)

:D

816

817

William B. Ogden . . . North Hollywood

Manhattan

. . . 1964

.. . . . . Inglewood . . . . . . . 1964

Consolidated September 1977
with Hollywood No. 355 as Hollywood No. 355.
Consolidated December 5, 1972
with Morningside Park No. 742 as Manhattan No. 742.

0
m
m

()

0

z
(j)
(/)

0

'Tl

819

Frank S. Land . . . .. Los Angeles . . . . . . 1965

821

Gateway

823

Maccabee . . . . . . . San Marino

. . . . . . . Seaside

Consolidated April 4, 1983 with
Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368 as Verdugo Hills-Unity
No. 368.

. 1966

Consolidated December 1, 1965
with Pacific Grove No. 331 as Pacific Grove No. 331 .

. . . . . . 1966

Consolidated October 1, 1980
with Monterey Park No. 457 as Monterey Park No.
457.

~

I

m

l

J

No.

Name

Location

Chartered

Disposition

828

Tustin

Santa Ana

.. 1971

Consolidated December 1, 1986
with Santa Ana No. 241 as Tustin No. 241 .

832

Saddelback Valley

. . El Toro . . . . . . . . . 1978

Cosnolidated April 1, 1987 with
Laguna Beach No. 672 as Saddelback Laguna No.
672.
(j)

833

834

Orange County Daylight Garden Grove . . . . . 1982

Square and Compass

Chino

. . . . . . . . . 1982

Consolidated April 1, 1989 with
Angeles Mesa No. 625 as A.M. Daylight No. 625.
Consolidated January 1, 1986
with Ontario No. 301 as Ontario No. 301.

:D
)>

z

0
r

0

0
Cl

m

0

836

838

Kona

. . . . . . . . . Captain Cook, Ht

. . . 1982

King Kalakaua Daylight Honolulu, HI . . . . . .

Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii
May 20, 1989.
Transferred to Jurisdiction of Hawaii
May 20, 1989.

'Tl
()
)>

c'Tl

0

:D

z

):::

{)\
.....

w

514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Elected Officers Grand Lodge F.& A.M. of California

1864

Since Its Organization, April 18, A.L. 5850

William C. Belcher .. G.M .
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. 1, 1895
Gil. B. Claiborne .. D.G.M.
Wm . A. Davies . .. S.G.W.
Isaac S. Titus . . • . J .G.W.
James Laidley .
.G.T.
Alex G . .Abell
. . . G.S.

1850

Addison Martin .
.G.T. Died July 12, 1897
G.S. P.W. Shepheard . . D.G.M.
Jonathan D. Stevenson G.M. Levi Stowell . . . .
California No. 1
Ebenezer Lane . . . S.G.W
1855
Born Jan. 1, 1800
Thos. P. Hawley .. J.G.w:
William H. Howard .. G.M. Addison Martin . . . .. G.T.
Died Feb. 14, 1894
John A. Tutt .. .. . D.G.M. San Jose No. 1O
Alex G. Abell . . . . . G.S.
Caleb Fenner . . . S.G.W. Born Aug. 29, 1810
1860
Died
Sept.
18,
1866
Sashel Woods
. . J.G.W.
Levi Stowell . .
.G.T. T.A. Thomas . . . . D.G.M. Nathaniel G. Curtis . . G.M.
John H. Gihon
. . . G.S. J.A. Raymond . . . . S.G.W. Washington No. 20
Sam A. Merritt . . . J.G.W. Born Feb. 8, 1825
1851
Addison Martin . . . . . G.T. Died July 12, 1897
John A. Tutt . . . . . . G.M. Levi Stowell . . . . • . G.S. P.W. Shepheard
. D.G.M.
Tehama No. 3
Wm. C . Belcher
. S.G.W.
1856
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Alvinza Hayard •.. J.G.W.
William H. Howard .. G.M. Addison Martin
Died May 19. 1900
.G.T.
Benj . 0 . Hyam
. D.G.M. San Jose No. 10
Alex G. Abell .
. .. G.S.
Born
Aug
.
29.
1810
E.F.F. Ellis .. .. . . S.G.W.
1861
Benj . S. Olda . . . . J.G.W. Died Sept. 18, 1866
John
A.Raymond
..
D.G.M.
Townsend A. Thomas .G.T.
James L. English • . . G.M.
Levi Stowell . . . . . . G.S. Lemuel Lyon . . . . S.G.W. Sacramento No. 40
Peter W. Randle . . J .G.W. Born June 5, 1813
1852
Addison Martin . . . . .G.T. Died May 29, 1889
Benjamin D. Hyam . . G.M. Alex G. Abell . . . . . G.S. Wm . C. Belcher . . . D.G.M.
Benicia No. 5
John W. Harville . . S.G.W.
1857
Born March 1, 1813
Caleb E. Wilcoxon . J .G.W.
Nathaniel G. Curtis . • G.M. James Laidley .. . . .G.T.
Died July 12, 1893
Chas. M. Radcliff
. D.G.M. Washington No. 20
Alex G. Abell . . . . . G.S.
J.R. McConnel
. J.G.W. Born Feb. 8, 1825
1862
Addison Martin . . .
.G.T. Died July 12, 1897
. D.G.M. William C. Belcher .. G.M.
Levi Stowell . . . . • . G.S. Charles Marsh
Aaron D. Park . . . . S.G.W. Corinthian No. 69
1853
John B. Pope .
J.G.W. Born Dec. 12. 1820
.G.T. Died Sept. 1, 1895
Charles M . Radcliff .. G.M. Addison Martin .
Alex G. Abell . .
Tuolumne No.8
. G.S. Gil. B. Claiborne
. D.G.M.
Born Feb. 5, 1818
John W. Harville
. S.G.W.
1858
Died Dec. 31, 1889
John B. Hewson
. J .G.W.
T.A. Thomas ..
.G.T.
. D.G.M. Nathaniel G. Curtis . . G.M. James Laidley .
J.R. Crandall . . . S.G.W. Washington No. 20
Alex G. Abell . . . . . G.S.
Richard F. Knott
. J .G.W. Born Feb. 8, 1825
1863
Died July 12, 1897
Addison Martin .
.G.T.
Levi Stowell . . . . . G.S. P.W. Shepheard . . D.G.M. William C. Belcher . . G.M.
Wm . McCormick .. S.G.W. Corinthian No. 69
1854
J .W. Bicknell . . . . J.G.W. Born Dec. 12, 1820
William H. Howard .. G.M. Addison Martin . . .. G.T. Died Sept. 1, 1895
Alex G. Abell . . . . . G.S. Gil. B. Claiborne
San Jose No.10
. D.G.M.
Born Aug. 29, 1810
Louis Cohn . . , . . S.G.W.
1859
Died Sept. 18, 1866
Wm. A. Davies . .. J.G.W.
. D.G.M. Nathaniel G. Curtis .. G.M. James Laidley
Nath. G. Curtis
.G.T.
. S.G.W. Washington No. 20
Rector E. Cole •
Alex G. Abell ..... G.S.
. J .G.W. Born Feb. 8, 1825
Robt. N. Wood

1869

1874

Leonidas E. Pratt .. . G.M. George C. Perkins .. G.M.
Mountain Shade No. 18
Oroville No. 103
Born Aug. 23, 1839
Born Aug. 29, 1833
Died Feb. 26, 1923
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Isaac S. Titus . .. . D.G.M. John M. Browne
• D.G.M.
John S. Ward . .. . S.G.W. Wm . B. Parker .. . S.G.W.
. J.G.W.
Richard Dale . . . . J .G.W. Wiley J . Tinnin
James Laidley . . . . .G.T. James Laidley
.G.T.
Alex G. Abell . . . . . G.S. Alex G . Abell
.. G.S.
1875

1870

1865
Gilbert B. Claiborne . G.M .
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. 1, 1908
Wm. A. Davies
. D.G.M.
Isaac S. Titus . . • S.G.W.
Henry H. Hartley
. J.G.W.
James Laidley . . . .G.T.
Alex G. Abell
•.. G.S.

. . G.M.
Leonidas E. Pratt . . . G.M. John M. Browne
Naval No. 87
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born May 10, 1831
Born Aug . 29, 1833
Died Dec . 7, 1894
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Isaac S. Titus . . . D.G.M. Chas. L. Wiggin . . . D.G.M.
Chas. L. Wiggin . . . S.G.W. Wiley J. Tinnin
. S.G.W.
Benj. H. Freeman .. J .G.W. Jacob H. Neff . . . . J.G.W.
. ..G.T.
James Laidley . . . . .G.T. James Laidley
Alex G. Abell . . . . . G.S. Alex G. Abell . . . . . G.S.
1876

1871

1866
Gilbert B. Claiborne . G.M .
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. 1, 1908
Henry H. Hartley .. D.G.M.
Wm . H. Peterson .. S.G.W.
Thomas Beck . . . . J.G.W.
James Laidley . •
.G.T.
Alex G. Abell . . • . . G.S.
1867

. . G.M .
Leonidas E. Pratt . . . G.M. John M. Browne
Naval No. 87
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born May 10, 1831
Born Aug. 29, 1833
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Chas. L. Wiggin . . D.G.M. Chas. L. Wiggin . . D.G.M.
Benj. H. Freeman .. S.G.W. Wm. S. Wells . . . . S.G.W.
Geo. C. Perkins . . . J.G.W. Solon W. Craigue .. J.G.W.
.G.T .
James Laidley . • .
.G .T. James Laidley . .
Alex G. Abell . . . . . G.S. Alex G. Abell • . . . • G.S.

18n

1872

William A. Davies •.• G.M.
Columbia No. 28
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916
Henry H. Hartley
. D.G.M .
Thomas Beck . . . . S.G.W.
Leonidas E. Pratt . . J.G.W.
James Laidley . .
.G.T.
Alex G. .Abell . . . . G.S .
1868

515

. . G.M .
Leonidas E. Pratt .. , G.M. John M. Browne
Naval No. 87
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born May 10, 1831
Born Aug. 29, 1833
Died Dec . 7, 1894
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Benj. H. Freeman . . D.G.M. Chas. L. Wiggin •.. D.G.M .
Geo. C. Perkins • .. S.G.W. Wm. W. Traylor • . . S.G.W.
John M. Browne
. J.G.W. Wm. H. Crane . . • . J.G.W.
.G.T.
James Laidley .
. .G.T. G.S. Moses Heller
Alex G. Abell . . . . G.S. Alex G.Abell . . . . . . G.S.
1878

1873

..

. G.M . John M. Browne
.. G.M . Isaac S. Titus
Charles Marsh
Naval No. 87
San Joaquin No. 19
Nevada No . 13
Born May 10, 1831
Born Oct. 14, 1827
Born Dec. 6, 1825
Died Dec . 7, 1894
Died April 22, 1892
Died April 28, 1876
. D.G .M. Geo. C. Perkins . . . D.G.M . Wm . W. Traylor
Leonidas E. Pratt
. S.G.W. John M. Browne , • S.G.W. Wm. H. Crane .
Theo. G. Cockrill
. J .G.W. Chas.E. Mitchell . • J .G.W. Robt. C. Broder
Fred F. Barss
.G.T. Moses Heller
.G.T. James Laidley
James Laidley
G.S. Alex G. Abell
G.S. Alex G. Abell
Alex G. Abell

. . ..

o

I

I

I

0

. . G.M.

. D.G.M.
. S.G.W.
. J.G.W.
. G.T.
G.S.

.. ..

516

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1879

1884

1889

1894

William W. Traylor
. G.M.
California No. 1
Born March 17, 1822
Died Jan. 18, 1883
Samuel C. Denson . D.G.M.
Clay W. Taylor
. S.G.W.
J.G.W.
John 0. Adams
Moses Heller
.G.T.
Alex G. Abell
G.S.

Jonathan D. Hines . . G.M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jan. 1, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin
. D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson
. S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker
J.G.W.
Moses Heller . .
.G.T.
Alex G. Abell
G.S.

Morris M. Estee
.. G.M.
California No. 1
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Oct. 7, 1903
William Johnston
. D.G.M.
Chas. R. Gritman
. S.G.W.
Henry S. Orme
J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding
.G.T.
George Johnson
G.S.

James B. Stevens
. G .M .
Yount No. 12
Born March 27, 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1919
Edward M. Preston . D.G.M .
William T. Lucas
. S.G.W.
J.G.W.
Thomas Flint ..
Edward Coleman
.G.T.
G.S.
George Johnson

1880

1885

1890

1895

Samuel C. Denson .. G.M.
Union No. 58
Born Sept. 23, 1839
Died July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor
. D.G.M.
John
Adams
. S.G.W.
0.W. Hollenbeck
J.G.W.
Moses Heller . .
.G.T.
Alex G. Abell
G.S.

Wiley J. Tinnin
. . . G.M.
Trinity No. 27
Born Oct. 7, 1829
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson
. D.G.M.
Hiram N. Rucker
. S.G.W.
Henry H. Knapp
J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding
.G.T.
G.S.
Alex G. Abell

Alvah R. Conklin . . . G.M .
Inyo No. 221
Born 1835
Died Oct. 5, 1897
William Johnston
. D.G.M.
Chas. R. Gritman
. S.G.W.
Henry S. Orme
J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding
.G.T.
George Johnson
G.S.

Edward M. Preston .. G.M.
Nevada No. 13
Born May4, 1841
Died April 24, 1903
. D.G.M.
Wm. T. Lucas
Thomas Flint ..
. S.G.W.
F.M. Angellotti
J.G.W.
Edward Coleman
.G.T.
George Johnson
G.S.

1881

1886

1891

1896

Clay W. Taylor
. . G.M.
Western Star No. 2
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Died May 1, 1897
John Q . Adams . . . D.G.M.
Jonathan D. Hines . S.G.W.
Thos. J. Bowers
J.G.W.
Moses Heller ..
. G.T.
Alex G. Abell
G.S.

Edmund C. Atkinson . G.M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov. 17, 1837
Died March 20, 1911
Hiram N. Rucker
. D.G .M.
Morris M. Estee . . . S.G.W.
Alvah R. Conklin
J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding
.G.T.
G.S.
Alex G. Abell

William Johnston
.. G.M.
Franklin No. 143
Born June 2, 1825
Died Nov. 14, 1905
. D.G.M.
Chas. R. Gritman
Henry S. Orme . . . S.G.W.
James B. Stevens
. J.G.W.
.G.T.
Nathan W. Spaulding
George Johnson . . . G.S.

William T. Lucas
. G.M .
Guadalupe No. 237
Born March 18, 1850
Died March 21, 1931
Thomas Flint
. D.G.M.
F.M. Angellotti
.. S.G.W .
Chas. L. Patton
J.G.W.
Edward Coleman •
.G.T.
George Johnson
G.S.

1882

1887

1892

1897

Clay W. Taylor
.. G.M.
Western Star No. 2
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Died May 1, 1897
Jonathan D. Hines . D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson
S.G.W.
George Hinds
J.G.W.
Moses Heller . .
.G.T.
Alex G. Abell
G.S.

Hiram N. Rucker
.. G .M.
La Grange No. 99
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Morris M. Estee
. D.G.M.
Alvah R. Conklin
• S.G.W.
Wm. Johnston
J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding
.G.T.
Alex G. Abell
G.S.

Charles R. Gritman .. G.M.
Yount No. 12
Born Dec. 10, 1838
Died May 14, 1894
Henry S. Orme . . . D.G.M.
James B. Stevens
. S.G.W.
Edward M. Preston . J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding
.G.T.
George Johnson . . . G.S.

Thomas Flint ..
. . G.M.
Texas No. 46
Born May 19, 1858
Died Nov. 18, 1936
F.M. Angellotti
. D.G.M.
. S.G.W.
Chas. L. Patton
James A. Foshay
J.G.W.
Edward Coleman
.G.T.
G.S.
George Johnson

1883

1888

1893

a.

Jonathan D. Hines .. G.M .
San Buenaventrua No. 214
Born Jan. 1, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin
. D.G.M.
Edm . C. Atkinson
. S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker
J.G.W.
Moses Heller
.G.T.
Alex G. Abell
G .S.

Morris M. Estee
.. G.M.
California No. 1
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Oct. 7, 1903
Alvah R. Conklin
. D.G.M.
William Johnston
. S.G.W.
Marc. D. Boruck
J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding
.G.T.
Alex G. Abell
G.S.

Henry S. Orme
. . . G.M.
Southern California No. 278
Born March 25, 1837
Died Nov. 29, 1912
James B. Stevens
. D.G.M.
Edward M. Preston . S.G.W.
Wm. T. Lucas ..
J.G.W.
.G.T.
Edward Coleman
G.S.
George Johnson

1898
Frank M. Angellotti
Marin No. 191
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 23, 1932
Chas. L. Patton
James A. Foshay
Wm. S. Wells ..
Edward Coleman
George Johnson

Edward Coleman
George Johnson
Charles L. Patton · · · G.M. Wm. H. Edwards
California No. 1
Born 1865
1904
Died April 11, 1923
George W. Hunter
. D.G.M.
James A. Foshay
Humboldt No. 79
Wm. S. Wells . . . . S.G.W.
Born 1854
0.S. Henderson
J.G.W.
Died Oct. 14, 1925
Edward Coleman
.G.T.
Motley H. Flint
George Johnson
G.S.
Edw.H.Hart
Geo. M. Perine
1900
Edward Coleman
James A. Foshay . . • G.M .
George Johson
Southern California No. 278
Wm. H. Edwards
Born Nov. 23, 1856
1905
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells ..
. D.G.M.
Motley H. Flint
O.S. Henderson
. S.G.W.
East Gate No. 290
Chas. W. Nutting
J.G.W.
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Edward Coleman
.G.T.
Died July 14, 1930
George Johnson
.G.S
Edward H. Hart
Wm. H. Edwards
.G.L.
Geo. M. Perine
Reuben H. Lloyd
1901
1899

. , G.M

. D.G.M.
. S.G.W.
J.G.W.
.G.T.
G.S.

517

.G.T.
G.S.

.G.L.

.. G.M.

• O.G.M.
. S.G.W.
• J.G.W.
. . . G.T.
. . G.S.
. . . G.L.

.. G.M.

. D.G.M.
. S.G.W.
J.G.W.
.G.T .
G.S
.G.L.

. . G.M. Edward Coleman
William S. Wells
George Johnson
Martinez No. 41
Wm. H . Edwards
Born June 24, 1861
1906
Died Jan. 23, 1919
. D.G.M.
O.S. Henderson
Edward H. Hart
. . . G.M.
Chas. W. Nutting
. S.G.W.
Live Oak No. 61
Geo. W. Hunter
J.G.W.
Born 1858
.G.T.
Edward Coleman
Died Sept. 26, 1917
George Johnson
G.S.
Geo. M. Perine
. D.G.M.
Wm. H. Edwards
.G.L.
Rueben H. Lloyd
. S.G.W.
1902
Oscar Lawler . .
J G.W.
.G.T.
. G.M Edward Coleman
Orrin S. Henderson
George Johnson
G.S.
Morning Star No. 58
Wm . H. Edwards
.G.L.
Born June 2, 1863
1907
Died June 25, 1940
. D.G.M.
Chas. W. Nutting
George M. Perine . . . G.M.
. S.G.W.
Geo. W. Hunter
Pacific No 136
Motley H. Flint
J.G.W.
Born 1852
.G.T.
Edward Coleman
Died Oct. 6, 1933
George Johnson
GS
. DG.M.
Reuben H. Lloyd
Wm. H. Edwards
.G.L.
Oscar Lawler ..
. S.G.W.
W. Frank Pierce
J.G.W.
1903
Edward Coleman
.G.T
Charles W. Nutting
· G.M. George Johnson
GS.
Evening Star No. 186
Thomas J. Baker
.G.L.
Born Oct. 3, 1852
1908
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter
D.G.M. Oscar Lawler
. . GM
Motley H. Flint
· S.G.W. East Gale No. 290
. J.G.W.
Edw.H.Hart

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
518

. . . . G.L. Bradford Webster . . D.G.M.
Charles A. Adams
. S.G.W.
1913
Geo.F. Rodden
• D.G.M.
J .G.W.
. S.G.W. John D. Murphey . . . G.M. Wm. P. Filmer
.G.T.
John Whicher
. JG.W. Alta No. 333
G .S.
Thomasa J. Baker
.G.T. Born July 7, 1863
. G.L.
G.S. Died Sept. 15, 1945
1918
.G.l. Benj. F. Bledsoe
. D.G.M
Albert G. Burnett
. S.G.W Bradford Webster
.. G.M.
1909
F.V. Keesling
J.G.W. Live Oak No. 61
W . Frank Pierce
. GM. Wm. P. Filmer
.G.T. Born Dec. 14, 1869
John Whicher
G.S. Died June 4, 1941
Oakland No. 188
Thomas J. Baker
Born Jan. 16, 1855
.G.l. Charles A. Adams . D.G.M.
Geo.F. Rodden
Died Oct. 3, 1910
. S.G.W.
1914
. D.G.M
Samuel E. Burke
. J.G.W.
Dana R. Weller
. S.G.W. Benj . F. Bledsoe . . • G.M. Wm . P. Filmer
.G.T.
A.J. Monroe . . .
John Whicher ..
Wm. P. Filmer
G.S.
J.G.W. San Bernardino No. 348
Edward Coleman
.G.T. Born Feb . 8, 1874
Thomas J. Baker
.G.L.
John Whicher . .
G.S. Died Oct. 30, 1939
1919
• DG.M.
Thomas J. Baker
.G.L. Albert G. Burnett
. S.G.W. Charles A. Adams
.. G.M.
F.V. Keesling
1910
Wm . R. Hervey
J.G.W. Excelsior No. 166
.G.T. Born Nov. 25, 1867
Dana R. Weller
. . . G.M . Wm. P. Filmer
John Whicher
G.S. Died May 1, 1962
Southern California No. 278
. D.G.M.
.G.L. Geo. F. Rodden
Born March 24. 1874
Thomas J. Baker
Samuel E. Burke
. S.G.W.
Died Jan. 9, 1947
1915
Wm. A. Sherman
. J.G.W.
. D.G.M.
A.J. Monroe ..
G.T .
. . G.M. Wm. P. Filmer
Wm. P. Filmer
. S.G.W. Albert G.Burnett
John Whicher . .
G.S.
J.D. Murphey
JG.W. Santa Rosa No. 57
Thomas J. Baker
.G.L.
Edward Coleman
.G.T. Born April 9, 1856
John Whicher ..
G.S. Died Aug. 15, 1923
1920
.G.L. F.V. Keesling . . . . D.G.M
Thomas J. Baker
Wm. R. Hervey .• . S .G.W. George F. Rodden •. G.M.
1911
Bradford Webster . J.G.W. Marin No. 191
.. G.M. Wm. P. Filmer
G.T. Born Dec. 24, 1867
Alonzo J. Monroe
Humboldt No. 79
John Whicher . .
G.S. Died March 8, 1934
. D.G.M .
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Thomas J. Baker
. G.L. Samuel E. Burke
Wm. A. Sherman
. S.G.W.
Died June 14, 1922
1916
J.G.W.
Arthur S. Crites
. D.G.M.
Wm. P. Filmer
.G.T.
. S.G.W. Francis V. Keesling .. G.M. Wm. P. Filmer
J.D. Murphey
John 'Nhicher
G.S.
Benj. F. Bledsoe
J.G.W. California No. 1
Thomas J. Bak.er
.G.L.
Edward Coleman
.G.T. Born Feb . 17, 1877
John Whicher . .
G.S. Died Sept. 25, 1963
1921
Thomas J. Baker
.G.L. Wm. R. Hervey • . . D.G.M.
Bradford Webster . . S.G.W. Samuel E. Burke
.. G.M.
1912
Charles A. Adams
JG.W. Sunset No. 352
Wm. P. Filmer
GM. Wm. P. Filmer
. G.T. Born Feb . 13, 1870
John Whicher . .
King Solomon No. 260
G.S. Died Feb. 14, 1961
. D.G.M
Thomas J. Baker
Born March 2, 1866
.G.L. Wm. A. Sherman
. S.G.W.
Arthur S. Crites
Died Nov. 22. 1942
1917
David J. Reese
. J.G.W.
John D. Murphey
. DGM.
G.M. Wm. P. Filmer
.G.T.
Benj . F. Bledsoe
. S.G.W. Wm . Hervey
John 'Nhicher
G.S.
Albert G. Burnett
J.G.W. Pentalpha No. 202
Thomas J. Baker . . • . G.L.
Edward Coleman
.G.T. Born March 26, 1870
John Whicher ..
GS Died Feb. 1, 1953

Born April 2, 1875
Died Jan. 3, 1966
W. Frank Pierce
Dana R. Weller
A.J. Monroe • . .
Edward Coleman
John Whicher . •
Thomas J. Baker

519

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Thomas J Baker

. J.G.W. Oakland No. 188
.G.T . Born Nov . 24. 1876
William A. Sherman
G.S. Died Aug. 4, 1953
. D.GM.
.G.L. Frank W. Mixter
Presidio No. 354
, S.G.W.
James B. Gist
Born Sept. 17, 1880
1927
.
J.G.W.
Wm.
A.
Sitton
Died Feb. 19, 1940
.G.T.
. D.G.M. Will H. Fischer
G.M . Wm. P. Filmer
Arthur S. Crites
G.S.
John
Whicher
.
•
S.G.W.
.
David J. Reese
Wilshire No. 445
.G.L.
Thomas
J.
Baker
.
J.G.W.
Albert E. Boynton
Born Sept. 21, 1875
.G.T.
Wm. P. Filmer
Died Oct. 4, 1953
1932
G.S. Gustav H. Hutaff . . D.G.M.
John Whicher ..
. • GM .
Frank
W.
Mixter
. G.L. C.M. Wollenberg .. S.G.W.
Thomas J. Baker
Exeter
No.
424
J.S. Ross . . . . . . J .G.W.
1923
Wm. P. Filmer . • . . . G.T. Born Dec. 30 1873
Arthur S. Crites
· · G.M. Jo hn Whicher . .
G.S. Died May 22, 1947
. DG.M
Bake rsfield No. 224
Thomas J. Baker .• • . G.L. James B. Gist . • .
Wm. A. Sitton • . • . SG.W.
Born Feb. 4, 1879
1928
. J.G.W.
R.V. Whiting ..
Died April 28, 1957
.G.T .
Wm.
P.
Filmer
.
D.G.M.
.. GM.
David J . Reese
Gustav A. Hutatt
G.S .
John Whicher
. S .G.W. Dunsmuir No. 297
Albert E. Boynton
.G.L.
Thomas J. Baker
. J.G.W. Born Oct. 5, 1879
George L. Jones
.G.T . Died Oct. 17, 1933
Wm. P. Filmer
1933
G.S . C.M. Wollenberg
John Whicher . •
. D.G.M.
. . G.M
.G.L. J.S. Ross • . . .
Thomas J. Baker
. S.G.W. James B. Gist . .
Pentalpha No. 202
Robt.
B.
Gaylord
.
.
J.G.W.
1924
Wm. P. Filmer
. . . . . G .T. Born Aug. 8, 1868
David J . Reese
. . . G.M. John Whicher • .
G.S. Died April 25. 1954
. D.G.M
San Buenaventu ra No. 214
Thomas J. Baker . . . . G.L. R.V. 'Ntliting ..
. SG.W.
Earl
Warren
.
.
Born Aug. 22 , 1871
1929
. J.G.W.
Rollie W. Mi ller
Died Nov . 9, 1934
.G.T .
Albert E. Boynton .. D.G.M. C.M. Wollenberg
.GM Wm. P. Filmer
G.S
John
Whicher
George L. Jones . •• S.G.W. Starr King No. 344
.G.L.
Thomas J. Baker
Will H. Fischer
. J.G.W . Born March 13, 1873
Wm. P. Filmer
.G.T. Died Oct. 22. 1962
1934
John Whicher
G.S. John S. Ross . . • . D.G.M.
GM
Thomas J. Baker
.G. L. Robt. B . Gaylord •. S.G.W. Randolph V. Whiting
King
Solomon
No.
260
Frank W. Mixter . . . J.G.W.
1925
Born Nov. 30. 1870
Wm. P. Filmer . • . • . G.T.
Died
Feb. 4, 1952
Albert E. Boynton . .. G.M. John Whicher . .
G.S.
. DGM .
Oroville No. 103
Thomas J. Baker . . . . G.L. Earl Warren , .
. S G.W.
Rollie W. Miller
Born Oct. 9 , 1875
1930
. J.G.W.
James T. Fraser
Died Feb. 22, 1945
. . . G .T.
George L. Jones .. D.G.M . John S. Ross . .
. . G.M. Wm. P. Filmer
G.S
John Whicher
Will H. Fischer
.. S.G.W. El Centro No. 384
. . . G.L
Leslie
E.
Wood
Gustav A. Hutaff .. J.G.W. Born May 21 . 1879
Wm. P. Filme r
.G.T. Died Aug. 31, 1952
1935
John Whicher
G.S. Robt. B Gaylord
. D.G.M.
. G.M
Earl
Warren
. . .
Thomas J. Baker
.G.l. Frank W. Mixter .. . S.G.W.
Sequoia
No.
349
James B. Gist . . . . J.G.W.
1926
Wm. P. Filmer .. . •. G.T . Born March 19, 1891
.. G.M. John Whicher . .
George L. Jones
G.S. Died July 9 , 1974
. D G.M
Madison No. 23
Thomas J. Baker . . . . G.l. Rollie W. Miller
James T. Fraser
.. S.G.W
Born May 11, 1873
1931
Leon 0 . 'Ntlitsell
. J.G.W.
Died June 22, 1956
. .. G.T.
· D.G.M. Robert B. Gaylord . . G.M. Wm . P. Filme r
Will H. Fischer
1922

Gustav A. Hutaff

C.M. Wollenberg
Wm. P. Filmer
. G.M. John Whicher ••
Thomas J . Baker

. S.G.W.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

521

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

520

John Whicher . .
Leslie E. Wood .
1936

G.S. Died Nov. 2, 1961
.G.L. Frank M. Smith . . D.G.M.
Leslie E. Wood . .. S.G.W.
Claude H. Morrison . J .G.W.
. . G.M. Wm . P. Filmer . . . . .G.T.
G.S.
John Whicher . . . .
Walter Leonard . • . . . G.L.

Rollie W . Miller .
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, 1883
Died July 18, 1960
James T. Fraser
. D.G.M .
Leon 0 . Whitsell
. S.G.W.
William H. Waste . . J.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer
.G.T.
John Whicher ..
G.S.
Leslie E. Wood .
.G.L.
1937

1941

Lawrence C. Kelley .. G.M.
Pentalpha No . 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Oct. 24, 1945
Arthur W . Bouillet •• D.G.M.
John R. Moore . . . S.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling . . . G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson • . • . G.S.
. . G.M.
.G.L.
Chester H. Warlow

Frank M. Smith .
East Gate No . 290
Born April 1, 1894
Died April 7, 1951
Leslie E. Wood •. . D.GM.
Claude H. Morrison . S G.W.
G.C. DeForest •.. . J .G.W.
. G.M. Wm. P. Filmer
.G.T.
Uoyd E. Wilson . . .. G.S.
Chester H. Warlow

James T. Fraser
Humboldt No. 79
Born Aug . 28, 1868
Died June 26, 1953
. D.G.M.
Leon 0. Whitsell
William H. Waste .. S.G.W .
William B. Ogden .. J .G.W.
.G.T.
Wm . P. Filmer
John Whicher . . . . . G.S.
.G.L.
Lelsie E. Wood .

1942

1945

1946

John R. Moore . . . . G.M.
Merid ian No. 667
Born Sept. 1893
Died March 28. 1965
Chester H. Warlow . D.G.M.
Edward H. Siems .. S.G.W.
Ellsworth Meyer . . . J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling . . .G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . . G.S.
. • G.M.
Arthur M. Warren . . . . G.L.

Leslie E. Wood .
Provident No. 609
Born April 2 , 1897
1947
Died Jan. 28, 1974
Chester H. Warlow .. G.M.
Claude H. Morrison . D.G.M .
Fresno No. 247
G.C. DeForest . . . . S.G.W.
Born June 30, 1889
1938
Lawrence C. Kelley . J .G.W.
Died Dec. 10, 1963
.G.T.
G.M. Wm. P. Filmer
Leon 0 . Whitsell
. D.G.M.
Edward H. Siems
G.W.
Orange Grove No. 293
Lloyd E. Wilson . .
Ellsworth Meyer ••. S.G.W.
Chester H. Warlow
.G.L.
Born July 10, 1876
Arthur Paulsen . . . J.G .W.
Died Feb. 25, 1966
.G.T.
Francis V. Keesling
1943
. D.G.M.
William H. Waste
G.S.
Lloyd E. Wilson . .
William B. Ogden
. S.G.W. Claude H. Morrison .. G.M.
.G.L.
Arthur M. Warren
Uoyd E. Wilson
. J .G.W. San Diego No. 35
1948
•. G.T. Born July 10, 1887
Wm. P. Filmer
John Whicher .
G.S. Died Nov. 2, 1953
•. G.M.
Edward H. Siems
Leslie E. Wood
. .G.L. G.C. DeForest . . . . D.G.M.
Plymouth No. 560
Lawrence C. Kelley . S.G.W.
1939
Born Dec. 7 , 1903
Arthur W . Brouillet . J.G.W.
Ellsworth Meyer . . . D.G.M.
.. G.M. Francis V. Keesling .. .G.T.
William B. Ogden
Arthur Paulsen . . . S.G.W.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . G.S.
Hollywood No. 355
Louis C. Drapeau .. J .G.W.
Chester H. Warlow .. . G.L.
Born Aug. 26, 1876
Francis V. Keesling . . .G.T.
Died Sept. 12, 1954
. G.S.
Lloyd E. Wilson .
1944
. D.G.M.
Uoyd E. Wilson
Arthur M. Warren . . . . G.L.
.. S.G.W. Gilbert C. DeForest
Frank M. Smith
. G.M.
1949
.. J .G.W . Reading No. 254
Leslie E. Wood
. . • .G.T. Born Sept. 18, 1889
Wm. P. Filmer
Ellsworth Meyer • . . . G.M.
G.S. Died Jan. 25. 1952
John Whicher .
Liberal Arts No. 677
. . . .G.L. Lawrence C. Kelley . DG.M.
Walter Leonard
Born Feb. 27, 1905
Arthur W . Brouillet . S.G.W.
Died Oct. 7, 1984
1940
J .G.W.
John R. Moore •.
Arthur Paulsen .. . D.GM.
.G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . G.M. Francis V. Keesling
Loui s C. Drapeau . . S.G.W.
Ingleside No. 630
Lloyd E. Wilson ..
G.S.
Arthur M. Warren . J.G.W.
Warlow
H.
Chester
.G.L.
Born Aug. 16, 1895
Francis V. Keesling . . . G.T.

1959
Lloyd E. Wilson . • . . G.S. Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. O.G.M.
S.G.W.
.
Anderson
Harold
L.
Joe L. Shell . . . . . G.M.
Walter H.E. VonKonsky .G.L.
Leo E. Anderson .• J .G.W. San Diego No . 35
1950
.G.T. Born Feb. 18, 1892
Edward H. Siems . .
G.S. Died May 5, 1974
Arthur Paulsen •••. G.M. Lloyd E. Wilson . . .
.G.L. Alfred F. Breslauer • D.G.M .
Elbert W . Davis .
Trinity No. 27
Guy B. Mize . . . . • S.G.W.
Born May 4, 1890
1955
Ira W. Coburn .• •. J .G.W.
Died Sept. 20, 1969
Louis C. Drapeau .. D.G.M. Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. . G.M . Edward H. Siems . •. .G.T .
G.S .
Lloyd E. Wilson .
Arthur M. Warren .. S.G.W. Loyalty No. 529
Elbert W. Davis . . . . .G.L .
Frank Harwell, Jr . .. J.G.W. Born Oct. 3, 1901
Francis V. Keesling .. .G.T. Died May 22, 1969
1960
Lloyd E. Wilson . • . . G.S. L. Harold Anderson . D.G.M.
S.G.W.
..
Anderson
E.
Leo
. . G.M .
Breslauer
F.
Alfred
Walter H.E. VonKonsky .G.L.
Phil N Myers . . . • J.G.W. Starr King No. 344
1951
Edward H. Siems . . .G.T. Born Aug. 26, 1898
G.S. Died Jan. 27, 1971
.. G.M. Lloyd E. Wilson . • •
Louis C. Ofapeau
.G.L. Guy B. Mize . . .. . D.G.M.
Elbert W. Davis . • .
Poinsettia No. 633
Ira W . Coburn . . • . S.G.W.
Born Aug . 30, 1885
1956
Elmer W . Heald . . . J.G.W.
Died Dec. 19, 1973
. G.M. Arthur M. Warren . . . . G.T.
. D.G .M . L. Harold Anderson
Arthur M. Warren
G.S.
Edward H. Siem s . .
Frank Harwell, Jr. . . S.G.W. Palo AJto No . 340
Donald G. Campbell .. G.L.
Henry C. Clausen .. J .G.W. Born March 29, 1899
Francis V. Keesling . . . G.T. Died Oct. 16. 1974
1961
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . • G.S. Leo E. Anderson •. D.G.M.
S.G.W.
.
.
.
.
Myers
N.
Phil
. . G.M.
. . .
Mize
B.
Guy
.G.L.
VonKonsky
Walter H .E.
Joe L. Shell .. . • • J .G.W. Unity No. 368
1952
.G.T. Born April 23, 1901
Edward H. Siems .
G.S. Died Feb . 27, 1985
Lloyd E. Wilson . .
G.M.
.
Arthur M. Warren
. G.L. Ira W. Coburn . . . . D.G.M.
Elbert W. Davis .
Mt. Davidson No. 481
. S.G.W.
Elme r W. Heald .
Born Dec. 27, 190i
1957
. J.G.W.
Theodore Meriam
Died May 2 1. 1964
.• G.M . Arthur M. Warren •.. .G.T.
Frank Harwell, Jr. . . D.G.M. Leo E. Anderson
Edward H. Siems • . . G.S.
Henry C. Clausen •. S.G.W. Hollywood No. 355
Donald G. Campbell • .G.L.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. J.G .W. Born Feb . 20. 1902
. D.G.M.
Francis V. Keesling .•. G.T. Phil N. Myers .. .
1962
. S.G .W.
G.S. Joe L. Shell . .. .
Lloyd E. Wilson .
. J.G.W. Ira W. Coburn . • . .. G.M .
Breslauer
F.
Alfred
Elbert W. Davis . . . . .G .L.
.G.T.
Edward H. Siems
Doric No. 21 6
1953
G.S. Born Jan. 4, 1904
Lloyd E. Wilson .
.G.L. Died Feb . 26, 1984
. G.M . Elbert W . Davis .
Frank Harwell, Jr.
Elmer W . Heald . . . D.G.M.
Beverly Hills No. 528
1958
• S.G.W.
Theodore Meriam
Born Oct 4 , 1898
Phil N. Myers . • . • . G.M. Myron E. Smith • . . J.G.W.
Died Jan. 25 , 1966
Arthur M. Warren . . . .G.T.
Henry C. Clausen . . D.G.M. McCloud No. 430
G.S.
Edward H. Siems . .
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. S.G.W. Born Jan . 12, 1897
.G.L.
Donald G. Campbell
L. Harold Anderson . J.G.W . Died July 6 , 1972
Francis V. Keesling .•.G.T. Joe L. Shell .• . . . D.G.M.
1963
Breslauer . S.G.W.
G.S. Alfred F.
Uoyd E. W ilson • .
. . . . . J.G.W. Elmer W. Heald . • . . G.M.
Mize
B.
Guy
Elbert W . Davis .. . . .G.L.
Edward H. Siems • .• .G.T. El Centro No. 384
1954
G.S. Born Jan. 7, 1885
Lloyd E. Wilson
. . G.M ElbertW. Davis . . .•. G.L. Oeid Nov. 26, 1975
Hen ry C. Clausen
• D.G.M.
Theodore Meriam
Ingleside No . 630
Myron E. Smith .. . S.G.W.
Born June 30, 1905

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

522

Laurence E. Dayton
Arthur M. Warren .
Edward H. Siems .
Donald G. Campbell

1964

J.G.W.
.G.T.
G.S.
.G.L.

Chester A. MacPhee D.G.M. Born March 20, 1913
Herbert A Huebner . S.G.W. Burton Meyer, Jr. . • D.G.M
J.G.W. John F. Roberts, Jr.. S.G.w·
Lester S. McElwain
Paul A. Pflueger . • .G.T. Kermit A Jacobson . J.G.w:
G.S. Chester A. MacPhee
Edward H. Siems .
.G.T.
.. G.L. Edward H. Siems . .
Harold N. Richards
G.S.

Theodore Meriam .• G.M.
H. Douglas Lemons
.G.L.
1969
Chico No. 111
1974
Born April 18, 1910
Chester A. MacPhee . G.M.
Myron E. Amith . . . D.G.M. Golden West No. 455
Burton Meyer, Jr.
. G.M.
Laurence E. Dayton S.G.W. Born June 5, 1905
Golden State No. 358
John F. Porter • .
J.G.W. Herbert A. Huebner • D.G.M. Born Feb. 12, 1921
Paul A. Pflueger
.G.T. Lester S. McElwain . S.G.W. John F. Roberts, Jr. . D.G.M.
Edward H. Siems
G.S. William H. Price .
J.G.W. Kermit A. Jacobson . S.G.W.
Donald G. Campbell
.G.L. Paul A. Pflueger
•. G.T. Donald B. McCaw . J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems
G.S. Chester A. MacPhee
.G.T.
1965
Harold N. Richards
. . G.L. Edward H. Siems . .
G.S.
Myron E. Smith . . • G.M.
H. Douglas Lemons
.G.L.
1970
University No. 394
1975
Born Dec. 2, 1906
Herbert A Huebner
. G.M.
Laurence E. Dayton D.G.M. Wilshire No. 445
John F. Roberts, Jr. . . G.M.
John F. Porter • . . S.G.W. Born March 21, 1902
Palo Alto No. 346
Eugene S. Hopp
J.G.W. Died March 25, 1974
Born Feb. 22, 1910
Paul A. Plueger .
.G.T. Lester S. McElwain • D.G.M. Died Feb. 1, 1981
Edward H. Siems
G.S. William H. Price . . . S.G.W. Kermit A. Jacobson
. D.GM.
Harold N. Richards
.G.L. Raymond A. Ebbage J.G.W. Donald B. McCaw
. S.G.W.
.G.T. Donald G. Ingalls
Chester A. MacPhee
1966
J.G.W.
G.S. Chester A. MacPhee
Edward H. Siems •
.G.T.
Laurence E. Dayton
• G.M. H. Douglas Lemons
.G.L. Edward H. Siems •.
G.S.
Uve Oak No. 61
H. Douglas Lemons
.G.L.
1971
Born Nov. 28, 1900
1976
Died Feb. 1, 1986
Lester S. McElwain .. G.M.
John F. Porter . • . . D.G.M. Yerba Buena No. 403
Kermit A Jacobson .. G.M.
Eugene S. Hopp
. S.G.W. Born Jan. 1, 1910
Carmelita No. 599
Robert A. Crigler
J.G.W. William H. Price . . . D.G.M. Born July 10, 1911
Paul A. Pfleuger
.G.T. Raymond A Ebbage S.G.W. Died October 1, 1990
Edward H. Siems
G.S. Burton Meyer, Jr.
J.G.W. Donald B. McCaw . D.G.M.
Harold N. Richards
.G.L. Chester A. MacPhee
.G.T. Donald G Ingalls . , S.G.W.
G.S. Vernon L. Gordon .. J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems . .
1967
H. Douglas Lemons
.G.L. Chester R. MacPhee
.G.T.
Eugene S. Hopp . . . G.M.
G.S.
Edward H. Siems .
1972
King Solomon's
H. Douglas Lemons
.G.L.
Seaport No. 260
William H. Price . • . G.M.
1977
Born April 25, 1910
Evergreen No. 259
Robert A. Crigler .. D.G.M. Born June 21, 1922
Donald B. McCaw
G.M.
Chester R. MacPhee S.G.W. Raymond A. Ebbage D.G.M.
Park-Crockett No. 139
Herbert A Huebner . J.G.W. Burton Meyer, Jr• . . S.G.W. Born April 20, 1928
Paul A Pflueger
.G.T. John F. Roberts, Jr.. J.G.W.
Donald G. Ingalls . , D.G.M.
G.S. Chester R. MacPhee
Edward H. Siems .
.G.T. Vernon L. Gordon .. S.G.W.
Harold N. Richards
.G.L. Edward H. Siems . .
G.S. H. Douglas Lemons .J.G.W
H. Douglas Lemons
.G.L. Chester R. MacPhee
. G.T.
1968
Verne W. Hendrix
G.S.
1973
Robert A. Crigler
G.M.
.G.L.
Burton 0. Young . .
John Marshall No. 636
Raymond A Ebbage . G.M.
Born June 28, 1916
Capital City No. 499

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1978
Donald G. Ingalls . . . G.M.
North Hollywood No. 542
Born July 29, 1918
Vernon L. Gordon , . D.G.M.
H. Douglas Lemons S.G.W.
Robert 0 . West . . . J.G.W.
.G.T.
Chester A. MacPhee
G.S .
Verne W. Hendrix
Burton 0. Young
.G.L.

1983

523

1988

E. Arthur Haglund .• G.M. Stanley L. Channon
. G.M.
A.calanes-Fellowship No. 480 Evergreen No.259
Born May 9, 1928
Born March 25, 1924
Roy J. Henville . . D.G.M. Sam M. Pavlovich
, D.G.M.
John W. Driskell
. S.G.W. Ronald A Sherod .. S.G.W.
Jack A. Levitt , .
J.G.W. Stanley M. Cazneaux J.G.W.
John Sickenberger
.G.T. Ralph H. Head
.G.T .
Robert A. Klinger
G.S.
G.S. Robert A Klinger .
Joe Hammond .
.G.L. Ulysses G. Patropulos .G.L.

1979

1984

1989

Vernon L. Gordon
.• G.M.
Joppa No. 508
Born June 10, 1928
H. Douglas Lemons D.G.M.
Robert 0. West . . . S.G.W.
. J.G.W.
Harry L. Maynard
John A. Sickenberger .G.T.
G.S.
Verne W. Hendrix
.G.L.
Burton 0. Young

, G.M.
Roy J. Henville .
San Marino No. 685
Born Aug. 11, 1913
John W. Driskell
. D.G.M.
Jack R. Levitt , •.. S.G.W.
Leo B. Mark . . . . . J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger .G.T.
G.S.
Robert A. Klinger
Joe Hammond .
.G.L.

Sam M. Pavlovich
. G.M.
Las Palmas No. 366
Born Feb.1, 1921
Ronald A Sherod , . D.G.M.
Stanley M. Cazneaux S.G.W.
A. Stephen Doan
. J.G.W.
Ralph H. Head
.G.T.
G S.
Robert A. Klinger
Ulysses G. Patropulos .G.L.

1980

1985

1990

H. Douglas Lemons . G.M. John W. Driskell
. G.M. Ronald A Sherod . . . G.M.
Bixby Knolls
Capital City No. 499
Bixby Knolls
Born Aug. 15, 1924
Neptune No. 699
Neptune No.699
Born May 29, 1925
Jack A. Levitt . . . . D.G.M. Born May 24, 1926
. D.G.M . Leo B. Mark •.• , . S.G.W. Stanley M. Cazneaux D.G.M.
Robert 0 . West .
Harry L. Maynard .. S.G.W. Stanley L. Channon J.G.W. R. Stephen Doan .. S.G.W.
E. Arthur Haglund
, ~ G.W. John A. Sickenberger .G.T. Warren J. Blomseth J.G.W.
John A Sickenberger .G.T. Robert A Klinger
G.S. Henry H.P. Wilkins
.G.T.
Robert A. Klinger
G.S . Joe Hammond .
.G.L. Robert A. Klinger .
G.S.
Joe Hammond .
.G.L.
Ulysses G. Patropulos .G.L.
1986
1981
Jack A. Levitt . . . , . G.M.
Robert O. West .
. . G.M. San Diego No. 35
El Dorado No. 26
Born Oct. 2, 1925
Born Aug. 10, 1926
Leo B. Mark D.G.M.
. D.G.M. Stanley L. Channon S.G.W.
Harry L. Maynard
E. Arthur Haglund
. S.G.W. Sam M. Pavlovich . J.G.W.
Roy J. Henville
. J.G.W. John A Sickenberger .G.T.
John A. Sickenberger .G.T. Robert A. Klinger . . . G.S.
Robert A. Klinger
G.S. Ulysses G. Patropulos .G.L.
.G.L.
Joe Hammond .
1987
1982
Leo B. Mark , , , , .. G.M.
Harry L. Maynard . . . G.M. San Jose No. 10
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born May 6, 1922
Stanley L. Channon D.G.M.
Born Nov. 5, 1927
E. Arthur Haglund
. D G.M. Sam M. Pavlovich . S.G.W.
J.G.W.
Roy J. Henville
. S.G.W. Ronald A Sherod
.G.T.
. J.G.W. Ralph H. Head . .
John W. Driskell
.G.T. Roberl A. Klinger .
G.S.
John A. Sickenberger
Robert A. Klinger
G.S. Ulysses G. Patropulos .G.L.
Joe Hammond . . . . .G.L.

524

INSPECTOR

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF INSPECTORS

LIST OF INSPECTORS - CONTINUED

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

DISTRICT

Jacques C. Bourguignon
. November 11, 1967
Delbert N. Wade
. March 19, 1973 . . . . .
Parise Voudouris . .
. October 13, 1973
Carl C. Lau . . . . .
. October 13, 1973 . . . .
Arthur A. Pasquinelli
. January 17, 1977 ..
Camil Lewis . . . . . .
. . December 29, 1977
Vernon M. Dandridge ..
. January 8, 1979
Harold A. Macy . . .
. January 18, 1979
John W. Paulson, Jr.
. March 16, 1979 . .
William F. Stovall, Jr.
. January 12, 1982
Donald E. Strand . .
. September 9, 1982
August D. Collier ..
. February 4, 1983
Donald D. Updegraff
. June 27, 1983
Benjamin B. Hagans
. August 8, 1983 . .
Charles S. Bersani
. September 3, 1983
James G. Fletcher
. November 10, 1983
Lester R. Carlston
. January 17, 1984 .
Paul T. Hodiak ..
. February 22, 1984
David R. Patterson
. June 26, 1984
Henry M . Kirkland
. August 18, 1984
Arthur Hernandez .
. September 25, 1984
Louis W. Jelinek, Jr.
. November 13, 1984
Arthur Porter . . .
. November 13, 1984
Tommy D. Cox . . .
. November 20, 1984
Richard B. Woods
.. November 20, 1984
Hal G. Scott . . . . .
. . November 26, 1984
Robert S. Watanabe
. . . . . November 29, 1984
Richard S. Andrews
. . . . . December 11, 1984
John S. Felt . . . .. .
. December 11, 1984
Walter A. Thompson
. February 1, 1985
James A. Chastain, Sr.
. March 14, 1985
Jack R. Evans . . .
. March 14, 1985
Dan H. Wasson . . .
. March 16, 1985
Richard L. Kramer
. June 22, 1985
Joseph W.R. Ashwill
. October 1, 1985
Ruben L. Villalobos
. October 29, 1985 . . . . . . . .
Glen A. Worrell
. November 8, 1985
Albert Donnici . . .
. November 18, 1985
James R. Paden
. December 5, 1985
Robert M. Hackert
. January 2, 1986
Adam M . Martin ..
. January 2, 1986

.546
. 102
.218
.524
. 370

.688
.564
.504

.306
.622
.344
. 372
. 215
.426
.416
. 410
.528
.638
.524
.640
.540
.414
. 110
. 412

.680
.639
. 217
.248
.646
. 161

.630
.642
.320
.334

.634
.534

.431
. 166
.530
.532
.508

INSPECTOR

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

Benjamin 0. Stelzriede
.. January 2, 1986
A. Glenn MacBride
.. January 7, 1986
William J. Morris . .
. . April 2, 1986
David C. Decker . .
.. July 7, 1986 .. .
William Namahoe, Jr.
. July 7, 1986 .. .
Bruce 0 . Carmitchel
. January 19, 1987
. January 19, 1987
Joseph R. Lenninger
William E. DeGarmo
. February 1, 1987
. February 8, 1987
Dean Van Norman
Richard D. Sappington
. February 19, 1987
George A. Anderson
. April 25, 1987 . . .
. June 24, 1987
Herbert L. Wentworth .
G. Thomas Hopper ..
. August 11, 1987
Archie M. Abid . . . .
. October 3, 1987
. November 4, 1987
Henry G. Schierenberg
William 0. Johnson
. November 23, 1987
. November 23, 1987
Cecil R. Argabright
Henry J.V. Baxter
. November 23 , 1987
. . . December 21, 1987
William L. Foster
. . . December 21 , 1987
Donald L. Leach
Morris E. Marshall
. December 21 , 1987
. . February 9, 1988 . .
Henri Nahoum : . .
.. March 1, 1988
George C. Schrum
Maurice L. Brubaker
.. July 12, 1988 ..
. . August 9, 1988
William R. Jones . .
Edward C. Fraser, Jr.
. . August 24, 1988
. . August 24, 1988
Henry G. McGuffin ..
. . October 9, 1988
Ernest E. Lewis . . . .
Leon Fisher . . . . . . . . . . January 1, 1989
DeMay H. White . . . . . . . January 5, 1989
Drury W. Parks ..
. January 6, 1989
George A. Graham
. January 11, 1989
. April 21, 1989
Mathew C. Grigg
Richard R. Head
. May 8, 1989
Timothy L. Cable
. May 9. 1989
. June 22, 1989
Randy L. Noe . .
. . July 10, 1989
Louis D. Callison . . .
.. July 15, 1989
Robert G. Grauer . . .
. September 14, 1989
Raymond F. Freeman
. September 25, 1989
Michael Schredle
. October 1, 1989 . .
Harry C. Dunlavy . . .

525

DISTRICT
.242
.374
.340

.606
.610
.517
.516

.404
. 119
.629
.684
. 104
. 100
.406
.219
.106
.408

.365
.603
.510

.632

.376
.636
.628
.616
. 120
.250
. 152

.544
.518
.206
.502
.208

.368
.686

.402
.220
.107
.428
.378

.418

526

INSPECTOR

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF INSPECTORS - CONTINUED

LIST OF INSPECTORS - CONTINUED

DATE OF APPOINTMEN T

DISTRICT

. October 12, 1989 .
... 696
Richard A. Marsh
. October 12, 1989 .
.608
Marcus S. Barber
. November 7, 1989
.403
Herbert E. Waltz
. December 4, 1989
.612
William A. Sullivan
. . . .. . December 6, 1989 . . . . .
.160
Kenneth J. Brisbin
. December 12, 1989
.611
Alwyn Torres. Jr. .
.244
Robert H. Pelham .. . . . . . . December 14, 1989
.570
A. Sherman Ostrom . . . .. . January 3, 1990
.222
R. Mark Lauchland . . . . . . . January 10, 1990
. January 12, 1990
.536
Tholow D. Chan
. January 26, 1990
.169
Allen S. Weisser
. February 16, 1990
.542
Donald L. Griffiths
. February 21, 1990
. . . . 239
John P. Curtis . .
.240
. February 28, 1990
Floyd E. Prather
.. 236
. March 29, 1990
Fernando P. Felix
.637
. May 2. 1990
Jerrold A. Wohlfarth
.390
. May 10, 1990 .
Edward M. Ames .
. May 24, 1990 . . .
.108
Walter A. Eagan
.216
. July 1, 1990
O.D. Russell . . . .
.430
. July 8, 1990 . . . . . . .
John D. Denney
.424
. July 8, 1990 . . . . . . .
Theodore P. Tartaglia
.411
. July 12, 1990
J.D. Dixon . . . . . . .
.437
. July 16, 1990
William E. Toler . . .
.609
. July 23, 1990
Roy Gibson . . . . . .
.601
. July 23, 1990
Melvin L. McCoy, Jr. .
. . . . . . . . . . .210
. August 1, 1990
Michael H. Radford, Sr.
.247
. August 14, 1990
Ric hard S. Sutherland
167
..
1990
. August 21,
Max W. King . . . . .
364
..
1990
5,
. October
Joseph R. Davidson .
.. 150
. O ctober 7, 1990
Rodney E. Wincentsen
.633
. O ctober 27, 1990
Dixon J . Webb, Jr.
624
..
. O ctober 27 1990
Robert C. Blossom . .
.620
.
. November 15, 1990 .
Ellsworth L. Chan . . .
.234
. December 4, 1990
Robert H . Underwood
.592
.
. December 5, 1990 . . . .
Wallace M. Sanderson
.512
.
.
.
. December 5, 1990 . .
John F. Lowe . . . .
500
..
Paul M. Price . . . . . . . . . . December 10, 1990
394
..
Lawrence Chapman . . . . .. December 18, 1990
.214
Mervin L. Purdy . . . . . . . . . December 18, 1990
.333
Samuel C. de la Pena . . . . . December 22, 1990
.330
Marc Seidenfeld . . . . . . . . December 22, 1990

DATE OF APPOINTMEN T

INSPECTOR
John R. Millman
Willis H. Rogers ..
John C . Nolan
Herschel R. Amos
George W. Abshier
Theodore J. Haddad
Bob S. Barlow
Camillo L. Passarelli
Byron F. Flanders . .
.
William J. Bray Ill
Bill R. Downen .....
Allen J . Smyth
William H. Strain . ..
Carnes M. Markusen
Robin R. Masterton
Dalton A. Noland ...
John Masson . . . .
Gary C. Young . . . .
Wallace A. Kelley . . .
Charles B. Chapman Ill
David B. Woods

.

.

527

DISTRICT

. . . . December 23, 1990
. December 23 1990 ...
. . . . December 23. 1990 ....
. . .. January 1, 1991
. . . . January 1, 1991
. . . . January 1, 1991
. January 1, 1991
. . . January 1, 1991
. . . January 1, 1991 ... ... ..
. . . January 1, 1991 ........
. . . January 1, 1991
......
. . January 1, 1991
. . . January 18, 1991
. . . February 22, 1991
. . April 11 , 1991
. .. May 18, 1991
.. .. .. .
. . . June 20. 1991
.. . ....
. . . . June 24, 1991
. . . . September 16, 1991 ....
. October 13, 1991
. . . . October 13, 1991 .... . ...

.. 644
.605
.602
.392
.594
.550
.558
.572
. 118
.520
. 116
. 101
.574
.204
.224
.388
.614
.212
. 114
.522
.. 246

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

528

FOR EIGN GRA ND LOD GES

BRAZ IL:
Alago as/Br azil:

EXPEDITO DOS SANTOS,
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Rua Barao de Atalaia 293
P.O. Box 252, 5700 Maceio, Alagoas, Brazil, S.A.

(OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES)
Recognized and in Fraternal Relations with the
ARGENTINA:

AUST RALI A:
New Sout h Wale s:

Quee nslan d:

Sout h Austr alia:

Tasm ania:

Victo ria:

Grand Lodge of California

RUBEN AZAR BEGA. Grand Secretary
Pte. J.D. Peron 1242
1038 Buenos Aires, Argentina, S.A.

IAN A. MCCULLOCH, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box A259
Sydney Wouth, N.S.W. 2000 , Australia
G.R. WHITE, Grand Secretary
Box 2204, G.P.O .
Brisbane. Queensland, Australia
N.D. FAIRWEATHER , Grand Secretary
Masonic Centre, North Terrace
Adelaide, 5000 , South Australia, Australia
KYLE W.H. WOOD, Grand Secretary
Maso nic Temple, 3 Sand y Bay Road
Hoba rt 7005, Tasmania. Australia
D.E. PLAISTED. Grand Secretary
300 Albert Street
East Melb ourne, 3002, Victoria, Australia

Amaz onas -Glom an:

DIETER SCHEITZ, Grand Secretary
1o1 O Wien, Rauhensteingase 3, Austria

BELG IUM :

CLAUDE MARTIN, Grand Secretary
Rue Royale, 265, 1210 Brussels. Belgium

BOLI VIA :

FEDERICO CALERO DEHEZA, Grand Secretary
Obisp o Cardenas 1480, Esq. Bueno
P.O. Box 564, La Paz. Bolivia, S.A.

PYTHAGORAS CAVALCANT1 ALCANTRA,
Grand Chancellor for Foreign Relations
Edificio Maco nico, Rua Carlos Gom es, 108
4011 o Salvador, Bahia, Brazil, S.A.
PAULO FERNANDES SILVEIRA,
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
l, S.A.
SGAN 909-Modulo "B", 70750, Brasilia-OF , Brasi

Ceara:

Espir ito Santo :

Estad o de Mato Gros so:

E.K. HOWELLS. Grand Secretary
West ern Austr alia:
alia
Freemasons ' Hall. Perth, Western Australia, Austr
AUSTRIA:

EDYR DA CUNHA DARNEIRO,
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Rua Come ndad or Clementina, No. 296
P.O. Box 162, 69025 Manaus-AM Brasil, SA

Bahia :

Brasi lia:

Goia s:

529

MARCUS VENICIUS MONTEIRO DA SILVA,
Grand Secretary for Foreign Relations
Rua Pedro de Oueiroz, 506. Parquelandia
60.450 Fortaleza. Ceara , Brasil , S.A.
FRANCISCO CARLOS GILLI MARTINS,
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Rua Pelita, 43, Conqueiral
Aracruz, Espirito Santo, Brasil , S.A.
VITORINO DESSUNTE ,
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Av. Fernando Correa de Costa 1025
Caixa Postal 321
78.000 - Cuiaba' - Mato Grosso
DILSON ANTUNES DE OLIVEIRA,
Deputy Grand Secretary
Rua 109 No. 367, Setor Sul
74.310 Goiania Goias, Brasil , S.A.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

530

Maranhao:

CELSO FRANCO RABELO
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relation~
Caixa Postal 60, 65.000 Sao Luis
Maranahao, Brazil, SA
WILSON MARQUES BARBOSA,
Grand Secretary for Foreign Relations
Rua do Cruzeiro, 754, Caixa Postal 611
79.050 Campo Gande, Mato Grosso do Sul , Brasil , SA

Mato Grosso Do Sul:

Minas Gerais:

Para :

Pernambuco:

Rio Grande Do Norte:

Rio Grande Do Sul:

ILDEFONSO P. GUIMARAES, P.G.M.
Grand Secretary
Tr. Alenquer. 139
66.000 BELEM, PA. Brazil

Santa Catarina :

ILDEFONSO P. GUIMARAES,
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal 333,66.000 Belem, Para, Brazil, S.A

Parana:

Rio De Jeneiro:

JEFFERSON LUIZ CARNEIRO,
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Avenida Brasil, 478, Santa Efigenia
Caixa Postal 5,30.000 Belo Horizonte
Minas Gerais, Brazil , SA

Rio Grande de Norte:

Paraiba :

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

JOSE NUNES DOS SANTOS
Grand Chancellor of Foreign Relations
Rua Professor Gabizo, 129, Tijuca,
CEP 20271 , Rio de Jeneiro, RJ, Brazil, S.A.
HUMAYTA DE SOUZA, Grand Secretary
Rua Frei Henrique de Coimbra, 3589
Candelaria, P.O. Box 610
59.021 Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil , S.A.
DOCTOR BRAVO MENDEZ,
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
P.O. Box 683, Porto Algre
Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil, S.A.

Roraima:

Sao Paulo:

FRANCISCO JOSE BATISTOTII ,
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
P.O. Box D-33, 88.000 Florianopolis
Santa Catarina, Brazil, SA
ERWIN SEIGNEMARTIN, Grand Secretary
of Foreign Relations
P.O. Box 8348, 01000 Sao Paulo, Brazil, SA

•
EDGARD BARTOLINI FILHO,
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 3, 58.035 Joao Pessoa,
Paraiba, Brazil, SA
JOSE RODRIGUES FILHO. Acting Grand Secretary
of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 1363,80001 Curitiba
Parana, Brasil, S.A.
LINESIO JOSE DE MAGALHAES DUARTE,
Grand Secretary Foreign Relations
Rua Imperial 197, Caixa Postal 1415
Recife, Pernambuco, Brasil , SA

Sergipe:
CANADA:
Alberta:

British Columbia:

Manitoba:

New Brunswick:
Piaui:

531

VALDIR EDSON SOARES,
Grand Secretary Foreign Relations
Rua Riachuelo, 1164, Caixa Postal 176
64.200, Parnaiba, Piaui, Brasil, SA

A.F. AYLESWORTH, Grand Secretary
330-12 Avenue SW., Calgary T2R OH2, Alberta
WILLIAM L. STIRLING, Grand Secretary
1495 West 8th Avenue, Vancouver V6H 1C9,
British Columbia
W.A. MILDREN, Grand Secretary
420 Corydon Avenue, Winipeg R3L ON8
Manitoba
BASIL A. PRESCOTI, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 6430, Station "A", Saint John E2L 4R8
New Brunswick

532

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

533

Nova Scotia:

G.G. VICKERS, Grand Secretary
1533 Barrington Street, Halifax B3J 1Z4
Nova Scotia

Gran Logia Occidental de Columbia:
MIGUEL A. GALVISA, Grand Secretary
Apartado Aero 4020, Cali. Colombia, S.A.

Ontario:

ROBERT E. DAVIES, Grand Secretary
Box 217, Station "A", Hamilton L8N 3C9
Ontario

Grand Logia Oriental de Colombia:
LUIS ERNESTO VILLAMIZAR M .. Grand Secretary
Avenida 2E 0-33N , P.O. Box 595, Cucuta Colombia, S.A.

Prince Edward Island:

DAVID P. MAC LEAN, Grand Secretary
Box 337, Charlottetown C1 A 7K7
Prince Edward Island

Quebec:

K.W. ALDRIDGE, Grand Secretary
2295 St. Mark Street, Montreal H3H 2G9
Quebec

Saskatchewan:

A.G. TRELEAVEN, Grand Secretary
1930 Lorne Street, Regina S4P 2M 1
Saskatchewan

COSTA RICA:

RODOLFO TORMO-SANCHEZ, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 10.060, San Jose 1000, Costa Rica

CUBA:

RACIEL MARTINEZ ANDREU, Grand Secretary
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba

DENMARK:

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC:

RAMON HORACIO GONZALEZ ROJO.
Grand Secretary
Arzobispo Portes No. 554, Esquina las Carreras,
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic

Czechoslovia ka:
CHILE:

CHINA:

ORLANDO GUERRERO DELGADO. Grand Secretary
Masonic Temple. Marcoleta 659
Casilla Postal 2867, Chile
S.S. YUAN, Grand Secretary
1o. Lane 201, Chang-an East Road, Sec. 2,
Taipei 10406, Taiwan, R.O.C.

COLOMBIA:
Gran logia Nacional de Colombia:
LUIS SARABIA-LOPEZ. Grand Secretary
Calle 39 No. 41-56, Apartado Aereo 2378,
Barranquilla. Colombia, S.A.
Grand Logia de Colombia:
ARGEMIRO CARDONA RESTREPO, Grand Secretary
Carrera Sa. No. 17-53, Apartado Aereo No. 6672,
Bogota, D.E .. Colombia, S.A.
Serenisima Gran Logia Nacional de Columbia:
JOSE J. VALVERDE PEREZ, Grand Secretary
Apartado Aereo 1969, Cartagena. Colombia, S.A.

JENS ERNST LASSEN. Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 2563, Blegdamsvej 23, DK 2100
Copenhagen, Denmark

ECUADOR:

RICARDO CHANG BOHORQUEZ, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 932. Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.

EL SALVADOR (CUSCALAN):

ENGLAND:

PEDRO LEONEL MORENO MONGE,
Grand Secretary
Ave. Bernal y Calle Antigua a
San Antonia Abad No. 291 , P.O. Box 3009.
El Salvador, C.A.

M.B.S HIGHAM. Grand Secretary
Freemasons' Hall. Great Queen Street
London WC2B 5AZ., England
Finland YRJO HAKKINEN, Grand Secretary
Kasarmikatu 16 D, 00130 Helsinki. Finland

FRANCE:
French National Grande Lodge:
YVES TRESTOURNEL. Grand Secretary
65. Blvd . Bineau. 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France&k4.40H

534

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GABON:

FELICIEN RECKATY, Grand Secretary
BP. 233, Liberville, Gabon, Africa

GERMANY:
United Grand Lodges of Germany:

GERO HONISCH,
Grand Secretary
Emserstrasse 12-13, 1000 Berlin 31, Germany

American Canadian Gran Lodge:

JESS MINTON,
Grand Secretary
Hermannstrasse 39-6000 Frankfurt Main, Germany

GREECE:

GUATAMALA:

HONDURAS:

CONSTANTINE APOSTOLAKIS, Grand Secretary
19, Acharnon, Athens, Greece
CARLOS H. ALDANA SANDOVAL,
Grand Secretary and Chancellor
27 Calle 12-45, Zona 5, Apartado Postal No. 34
Codigo Postal 01901, Guatamala City, CA
J. EDGARDO SANDOVAL A.
Grand Secretary and Chancellor
3a, Avenue No. 717, Tegucigalpa, Honduras

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ITALY:

ERNESTO ZAMPIERI, Grand Secretary
Villa Medici del Vascello, Via S. Pancrazio,
8=00152, Rome, Italy

JAPAN:

CHESTER L. DITIO, Grand Secretary
Tokyo Masonic Center, 1-3 Shibakoen, 4-chome,
Minato-ku, Tokyo 105, Japan
RENE GOERRES, Grand Secretary
B.P. 851 - L.2018, Luxembourg

LUXEMBOURG:

MEXICO:
Baja California:

MAX ALLEN MARTINEZ, Grand Secretary
Conocido Fraccionamiento, Padre Kino,
Tijuana, Bja California, Mexico

Benito Juarez:
JUAN FRANCISCO SUAREZ G., Grand Secretary
Apartado Postal 87, Torreon, Coashuila C.P .. 27000, Mexico
Cosmos:

ANGEL TALAVERA LUNA, Grand Secretary
Calle Libertad 1004, Chihuahua, CP 31000, Mexico

El Potosi:

CARLOS JORGE ADAME AGUILAR ,
Grand Secretary
Hacienda No. 384, San Luis Potosi , Mexico

HUNGARY:
ICELAND:

JON BIRGIR JONSSON, Grand Secretary
Skulagata 55, Reykjavik, Iceland

INDIA:

H.P. GUPTA, Grand Secretary
Freemasons' Hall, Janpath, P.O. Box 681
New Delhi 110001, India

535

Neuvo Leon:

ING. LENIN COLUNGA MOLINA,
Grand Secretary
Apartado Postal 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico
ALFREDO REYNOSO MAGANA,
Grand Secretary
Lopez Cotilla No. 111 , Guadalajara, Jalisco. Mexico

Occidental Mexicana:

IRAN:
NOTE: Operation of the Grand Lodge suspended by the revolutionary
government.
IRELANO:

ISRAEL:

MICHAEL W. WALKER, Grand Secretary
Freemasons' Hall, 17 Molesworth Street
Dublin, 2, Ireland
ARIE MUNITZ, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 33206, Tel Aviv 61331, Israel

Tamaulipas:

Valle de Mexico:

DANIEL CASTILLO GONZALEZ. Grand Secretary
Encino No. 100, Col. Aguila. Tampico ,
Tam. 89230, Mexico
DAM IAN CORREU-GLEASES, Grand Secretary
Sadi Carnot No. 75. Mexico. D.F.

York Grand Lodge of Mexico:

DH HART, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 1986. Mexico 1, D F.

536

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NETHERLANDS:

J. NICHOLAS DE VROOM, Grand Secretary
22 Fluewelen Burgwal, 2511 CJ The Hague
Netherlands

NEW ZEALAND :

AL. HART, J.P., Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 6439, Wellington 1
New Zealand
SVERRE KROKAAS, Grand Secretary
Nedre Voldgate 19, 0158, Oslo 1
Norway

PANAMA:

JULIO AOUIN, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 84, Panama 1, Republic of Panama

PERU:

DIEGO BERTOLUCCI, Grand Secretary
Palma No. 937, P.O. No. 1178, Asuncion
Paraguay, S.A.
LUIS GALLIAN! ALLENDE, Grand Secretary
P.O . Box 587, Lima 100, Peru, S.A.

PHILLIPPINES :

ROSENDO HERRERA, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 990, Manila, the Phillippines

PUERTO RICO:

BOLIVAR PEREZ-RIOS, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 8385, Santurce, Puerto Rico 00910

SCOTLAND:

SOUTH AFRICA:

SPAIN :

SWEDEN:

SWITZERLAND:

TURKEY:

URUGUAY:

NORWAY:

PARAGUAY:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ARTHUR 0. HAZEL, Grand Secretary
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George Street,
Edinburgh EH2 3DH, Scotland
L. GOULD, Grand Secretary
P.O. Box 46203, Orange Grove,
Johannesburg, South Africa
JOSEP MUNTE RODRIGUEZ, Grand Secretary
Apartado Correos 5119, 08080 Barcelona, Spain
ERIK LYTH, Grand Secretary
Frimurareorden, Nybrakajen 7, 1tr.
S-11148 Stockholm, Sweden

537

EMIL HUERLIMANN, Grand Secretary
Rue du Petit-Beaulieu 1, CH-1004, Lansanne,
Switzerland
RESIT ATA, Grand Secretary
25 Nuru Ziya so. , Beyoglu, Istanbul, Turkey
PEDRO BERETERVIDE LAVIE,
Grand Secretary for Foreign Affaires
p .0. Box 10691, Distrito 1, Montevido, Uruguay, S.A.

VENEZUELA:

CARLOS CARRANZA RONDON , Grand Secretary
Este 3 No. 5, Apartado 927,
Caracas. Venezuela, S.A.

YUGOSLAVIA:

ZORAN D. NENEZIC, Grand Master
11000 Bel grad
Ohridska 16, Yugoslavia

538

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

NAME
Abell .
Acacia . . . . . . . .
Acalanes Fellowship
Acorn ..
Alameda
Alamo ..
Alcatraz .
Alhambra Progressive
Alisa! .. . . . . . . .
Alpha Shattuck-Stephens
Alta California Research
Alta Mt. Sierra
Alturas . .. .
Amador .. .
A.M. Daylight
American River
Anacapa
Anaheim
Anchor
Antioch-Brentwood
Apollo-Woodstock
Arabic .
Arcadia
Arcata
Arroyo .
Artesia .
Atascadero
Athens .. .
Atwater Larchmont
Azure
Azusa . . .
Bakersfield
Baldwin Park
Bartstow
Bell
Bellflower
Benicia
Berkeley ..
Beverly Hills
Bicentennial Daylight

NO.

LOCATION

. 146
. 243
. 480
. 494
. 167
. 122
. 244
. 322
321
. 431
. 408
. 248
.. 65
. 625
. 795
. 710
. 207
. 273
. 175
. 396
. 763
. 547
106
. 274
. 377
. 493
. 228
. 614
533
305

.. Ukiah
. Hayward
. Lafayette
. Oakland
. Fremont
. Concord
. Oakland
Alhambra
Pleasanton
. Richmond
.. Paradise
.Sierra Madre
.. Alturas
. .. Jackson
. . . Anaheim
Rancho Cordova
. Oxnard
. Anaheim
. Anaheim
. Antioch
.Alameda
. Los Angeles
. . . Arcadia
.. . . Arcata
Arroyo Grande
. . . Artesia
. Atascadero
.. .. . Davis
. Los Angeles
. Anaheim
. . . Azusa

224
. 660
. 682
. 483
320
.. 5
. 363
528
. 830

. Bakersfield
Baldwin Park
. Barstow
. . . . Bell
Bellflower
. .Benicia
. Berkeley
. Beverly Hills
. Sacramento

539

NO.

LOCATION

. 617
. 699
. 442
714
.. 473
.. 822
. . 402
.. 370
. 357
. 406
. 400

. Big Bear Lake
. Long Beach
. San Diego
. San Bruno
. Blythe
. .. Boron
.. Brawley
. San Francisco
Buena Park
.. Burbank
Burlingame

. 513
Cahuenga-La Brea
. . 78
Calveras .
. 486
Caledonia
. 233
Calistoga
. 824
Camarillo
. 612
Camell ia .
. 679
Canby Cross
. 611
Canoga . . .
499
Capital City Golden Empire
. 680
•
Carmel
. 444
Carpinteria
. 524
Catalina Island
. 465
Center . . . . .
Central California Reasearch .
. 362
Charity . . . . . . . .
. . . . 111
Chico-Leland Stanford
. . . . 427
Chino Valley
. 483
Chowchilla
. 626
Chula Vista
. 656
Citro!
185
Claiborne
. 799
Clairemont Mesa
. 436
Claremont . . . . .
. 294
Clarence L. Fraser
747
Claude H. Morrison
101
Clay . . . . . . . .
756
Clayton Valley St. John's
183
Clear Lake-Callayomi
417
Clovis . . . . . . . . . .

. Los Angeles
.San Andreas
.Bakersfield
.. Calistoga
.. . . Somis
. Tempie City
. . . Tulelake
Canoga Park
. Sacramento
. . . Carmel
.Carpinteria
. Temecula
. . Fresno
.. Fresno
Campbell
. . Chico
.. Chino
.Chowchilla
Chula Vista
. . . . Brea
Point Arena
. San Diego
. Claremont
. . . Dinuba
. San Diego
. Dutch Flat
.Concord
Clearlake
. . Clovis

NAME
Big Bear . . . . . . . .
Bixby Knolls Neptune
.. . . . .
Blackmer
Blue Lakes
Blythe
Boron . . .
Brawley ..
Brotherhood
Buena Park
Burbank ..
Burlingame

541

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABE TICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINU ED

ALPHABE TICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINU ED

540

NAME
Coachella
Coast side
Columbia
Colusa
Compass
Composite
Concord
Conejo Valley
Confidenc e
Consuelo
Corinthian
Coronado
Covelo
Covina
Crescent
Crecenta Canada
Crocker . .. .
Crossroad s . . .
Crow Canyon . .
Culver City-Fosha y
Damascus
Dana A. Weller
De Anza . . . .
Delano
Dos Palos
Downey . . . . .
Drytown . . . . .
Dunsmuir- McCloud
Eagle Rock Glassel!
East Belt
East San Diego
East Whittier
Eden Standard
Eel River
El Cajon Valley
El Camino Research
El Centro . . ..
El Cerrito-Albany
El Dorado . .. .

NO.

LOCATIO N

. 476
. 762
. 388
. 240
. 590

. Coachella
.. Pacifica
. San Francisco
. . . . . Colusa
.. .. Pomona
. Santa Monica
. . Sacramen to
. Thousand Oaks
. Castroville
. Escondido
. Marysville
. Coronado
. . . Covelo
. . . Covina
Crescent City
La Crescenta
.. Daley City
. . San Diego
Castro Valley
. . Culver City

.. 639

. 117
. 807
. 203
. 325

.. 9
. 441

231
. 334

.. 45
652

. 212
. 696
. 569
. 467

. 648
. 765
. 511

. 309
. 681

. 220

174
. 297
. 422

. 391
561

776
113

147
. 576

384
686
. 26

. San Bernardin o
.. Torrance
. Sunnyvale
. .. Delano
. Dos Palos
. Downey
Plymouth
Dunsmuir
. Los Angeles
.. Tuolumne
.. San Diego
. .. Whittier
.San Leandro
. Fortuna
. El Cajon
San Jose
El Centro
El Cerrito
. Placerville

NAME
Elk Grove . . . .. . .
El Rancho Rio Hondo
Elsinore
Elysian
Enterprise
Escalon
Estero . .
Eureka
Evening Star
Evergreen
Exeter
Fairfax
Fall brook
Fellowship
Ferndale
Fidelity
Fillmore
Fontana
Foothill
Forbestow n
Fort Crook
Fountain Valley
Fox-Coates Daylite
Francis Drake
Franklin
Fraternity
Fresno
Friendship .
Fruitvale .
Fullerton
Galt ..
Garden Grove .
Gardena-Ascot
Gemini .. .. .. .
General Henry H. Arnold
George Washington
Georgetow n
Glendale
Glendora . .

NO.

LOCATIO N

. 173

. . Elk Grove
Pico Rivera
Lake Elsinore
. Los Angeles
. Yuba City
.. Escalon
. Morro Bay
.. Auburn
. . . Etna
.Riverside
.. Exeter

. .. 800
. 289

418
. . 70
. 591

719
. 16
186
259

424
556

. 317
.. . 290
193

120

379
653
564

.. 50
. 250
. 351
. 842
376

. 143
. 399
. . 247

. .. 210
. 336

. . 339
.. 267
.. . 505

. 372
825

791
435
. 25

544
404

. Larkspur
Fallbrook
. . Los Angeles
. .. . Ferndale
. San Francisco
. Fillmore
.. . Fontana
. . . Hayward
. Forbestow n
. Fall River Mills
. . Westminster
. .. Victorville
. South San Francisco
. Courtland
San Jose
. .. Fresno
San Jose
Castro Valley
. Fullerton
. . . Galt
. Garden Grove
. . Gardena
. .. . Fremont
. . . Rosamond
. San Francisco
. Georgetow n
.Glendale
. . Glendora

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

542

NAME
Gold Hill . . . . . . . .
Golden Ashlar . . . . .
Golden Gate Speranza
Golden Rule .
Grafton .. .
Granda .. .
Granada Hills
Gravel Range
Great Lights
Greenleaf
Girzzly . ..
Guadalupe
Half Moon Bay
Hammonton
Hanford
Harbor
Harmony
Hartley
Hawthorne
Hemet . . .
Henry Clay
Hermann
Hermosa-Manhattan
Heperian
Highland
Hills Ferry
Hiram ..
Hollywood
Holtville
Home
Hope
Hornitos
Howard
Humboldt
Huntington Beach
lllinoistown . . . .
Imperial . . . . . .
Indian Wells Valley
International City

543

NO.

LOCATION

NAME

NO.

LOCATION

. 32
. 306
.. 30

. . . Lincoln
. . . Colton
. San Francisco
. . . San Jose
. Knights Landing
.. Alhambra
Granada Hills
. Camptovllle
. Sunnyvale
. . . Whittier
. . . . Portola
. Santa Maria

Inyo
lone
Ionic .
Irvine

. 221
. . 80
. 520
841

. Independence
. . . . . lone
. Los Angeles
. .. Irvine

232
368

Janesville
. Glendale
. San Diego
San Jose
. San Diego
. Newport Beach

. 479
. 141

. 535
. 378
.. 59
. 818

670
601
247
835

. 433
. 279

502
. 164
. 199
. 647
. 615

.. 95
. 127

. 557

264
748
236

. 43
. 355
. 425

. 721
. 234

.. 98
.. 37
. 79
380
. 51
390

. 691

. 389

Half Moon Bay
. . . Sutter
. . Hanford
. Richmond
. Sierra City
.. Lakeport
.Hawthorne
. . . Hemet
. Sutter Creek
. Burlingame
. Manhattan Beach
. . . Santa Maria
. San Bernardino
.. Newman
. El Dorado
Van Nuys
.. Holtville
.. Reseda
. Beckwourth
. Hornitos
. . . . Yreka
. . . . Eureka
. Huntington Beach
. . . Colfax
.. Imperial
. Ridgecrest
. Long Beach

Janesville
Jewel City
John D. Spreckels
John P. Jarman ..
Joseph L. Shell Daylight
Jubilee

647
669

837
. 604

Kaweah
Keith ..
Kerman
Kern River Valley
Keystone ..
King David's

. 665
. 187
. 420

LaFayette
La Habra
La Jolla
Lake Tahoe
Lakeside
Lakewood .
Lamanda Park Carmelita
La Mesa .
La Mirada . . . . .
Lancaster . . . . .
Landmark Buckeye
La Parfaite Union
Las Palmas-Ponderosa
Lassen
Laurel . . . . . .
Lawndale . . . .
Lebanon-Pacific
Lemon Grove ..
Lexington .. ..
Liberal Arts . . .
Libertas-Securtiy
Liberty . . . . . .

. 126

827
161
209

. 659
518
707
760
728

627
. 407
. 750

. 437
. 195
.. 17
. 366
149

245
753

136
736
104
. 677
466

. 299

. Woodlake
. . Gilroy
. Kerman
. Kernville
. . Milton
.San Luis Obispo
Sebastopol
.. La Habra
.. La Jolla
. South Lake Tahoe
. . . Lakeside
. Long Beach
. Pasadena
.. La Mesa
Buena Park
. Lancaster
. . Esparto
. San Francisco
. . . Fresno
. Susanville
.. Willows
.Hawthorne
. San Francisco
. Lemon Grove
. . . El Monte
. Los Angeles
.Bakersfield
.. San Jose

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

544

NAME

NO.

LOCATION

Live Oak .
Livingston
Lodi .. .
Lomita .. .
Lompoc ..
Long Beach
Los Altos
Los Angeles
Los Angeles Harbor
Los Banos . . . . .
Los Cerritos . . . . .
Los Gatos-George E. Tun
Loyalty
Luther Burbank
Lynwood . ..

. 61

.. Oakland
. Livingston
.. . Lodi
. . . Lomita
.. Lompoc
. Long Beach
.. .Los Altos
. Los Angeles
.. San Pedro
.. Los Banos
. Long Beach
.. Los Gatos
. Los Angeles
Santa Rosa
Bellflower

Madera Joppa
Madison . . . .
Magnolia-La Cumbre
Magnolia Park
Malta-El Sereno
Manchester
Mar Vista
Marin ..
Mariposa
Martinez .
Maya
McKinley
Mendocino
Menlo Park-Peninsula
Menorah
Merced . . . .
Metropolitan
Meudell-Oildale
Mill Valley . .
Mineral King
Mission ..
Mission Bay
Modesto
Molino .. .

. 658

. 256
.. 644
. 262
. 327
. 712

. . 42
. 332
. 312

. 674
. 292
. 529
. 752
. 600

280
. 23

242
. 618
. 588
. 585
820
191
. 24
. 41
793

. 347
. 179
. 651
. 623

. 749
. 352

. 695
. 356
. 720
. 169
. 771

675
. 150

Madera
. Grass Valley
. Santa Barbara
. . . Burbank
. . Los Angeles
.. . . Downey
. Newport Beach
. San Rafael
.. . Mariposa
.. .. Martinez
. Monterey Park
. Richmond
. . Mendocino
.. Menlo Park
. Playa del Rey
. . . Merced
. Los Angeles
.Bakersfield
. . Mill Valley
. . . . Visalia
. San Francisco
. . San Diego
. . . Modesto
. Los Molinos

545

NAME

NO.

LOCATION

Moneta
Monrovia
Montebello
Monterey
Moreno Valley
Morgan Hill
Morning Star
Mosaic
Mountain Shade
Mountain View
Mount Baldy
Mount Diablo
Mount Jackson
Mount Oso
Mount Shasta

. 405
. 308
. 451
. 217

. Gardena
Monrovia
Whinier
Monterey
. Moreno Valley
Morgan Hill
. . Stockton
. Livermore
Downieville
.Mountain View
.. Ontario
. . Concord
Guerneville
. . .Tracy
Anderson

Natoma
Naval
Needles
Nevada
Nicolaus .
Normal Heights •.
North Bune .. .
Northern California Research
Northern Light
North Hollywood
North Star
Norwalk
Oakdale
Oak Grove
Oakland Durant Rockridge
Oak Plains . . . . .
Oasis of Mara . . . .
Occidental-California
Ocean Park
Oceanside
Ojai . . . .
Old West . .
Olive Branch
Olivet . . . .

. 804
. 463

. 68
218
. 18
194
815
. 448
. 295
. 460
281

. 64

.. 91
. 315

Folsom
. . Vallejo
. Needles
. Nevada City
. Wheatland
.. San Diego
. . . . Gridley
. San Francisco
.. . . . Millville
North Hollywood
. Fort ·Jones
. Norwalk

. 275
. 215
188
789
735
1
. 369
. 381
. 663
813
269
205

. Oakdale
. Alameda
. Oakland
. Sacramento
. Twenty-nine Palms
. San Francisco
. Santa Monica
.Oceanside
.. Ojai
Newhall
. Tulare
Corning

. 87
. 326
.. 13
. 129
. 632
. 230
. 190

. 542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

546

NAME

NO.

LOCATION

Ontario . . . . . . .
Ophir-Bear Mountain
Opportunity . . . . .
Orange County Research
Orange Grove
Oriental . . . ..
Orinda-Plymouth
Orland .
Orosi
Oroville
Oxnard

. 301
. 33
740

. . Ontario
.. Murphys
.Hawthorne
.. Anaheim
. . Orange
. San Francisco
. Orinda
. Orland
.. Orosi
Oroville
Oxnard

Pacific Grove
Pacific Aim
Pajaro . . .
Palmdale
Palm Desert
Palms-Adams
Palm Springs
Palo Alto-Roller
Pasadena Consolidated
Paso Robles
Patterson
Paul Revere
Penrhyn ..
Perris . . .
Petaluma-Hamilton
Phoenix
Pittxburg
Plumas
Poinsettia
Point Loma
Point Pinole
Polaris . . .
Pomona ..
Porterville-Lindsay
Provident

331
567

293
144
521
265
363
103

. 341

609

Pacific Grove
. Long Beach
. Watsonville
.. Palmdale
. Palm Desert
. Los Angeles
Palm Springs
. . . Palo Alto
.. Pasadena
. Paso Robles
.. Patterson
. San Francisco
. . Penryn
Sun City
..
.
.
.. . Petaluma
. San Bernardino
. Pittsburg
. . . Quincy
.. Ventura
. San Diego
.. Hercules
Carmichael
.. Pomona
. Porterville
. Sacramento

Queen Vista

540

. Long Beach

Reading ..

. 254

.. . Redding

110

769
826
512
693
. 346
272
. 286
488

462
258
411
180
178

429
. . 60
. 633
. 620
. 337
730

246
303

547

NAME

NO.

LOCATION

Redlands
R.E. Dolley
Redondo
Redwood City .
Redwood Empire
Reedley
Reseda . . . . .
Rialto . . . . . .
Rim of the World
Rio Linda
Rio Vista ..
Rising Light
Riverbank
Riverside
Riviera .. .
Rosemead
Rose's Bar
Russian River

. 300
. 616
. 328
. 168
. 683
. 304

. 89
181

.. Redlands
.. . Seal Beach
. Redondo Beach
. Redwood City
.. Garberville
Reedley
.. Reseda
. .. Rialto
Twin Peaks
Rio Linda
. . Rio Vista
South Gate
. Riverbank
. .Riverside
Pacific Palisades
. Rosemead
. Smartsville
. . Windsor

. 40
Sacramento .
. 672
Saddleback Laguna
. 204
Salinas
. 211
San Benito . . . .
. 348
San Bernardino . .
. 214
San Beunaventura
. 690
San Carlos
. 671
San Clemente
. 35
San Diego . .
775
San Dieguito
428
San Dimas
343
San Fernando
139
San Francisco
San Gabriel-Southern California 278
. 316
Sanger
. 668
San Gorgonio
. 338
San Jacinto
. 19
San Joaquin
. 10
San Jose . . . . . . .
732
San Juan . . . . . . .
225
San Leandro-Brooklyn
718
San Lorenzo Valley . .

. Sacramento
.. El Toro
.. .. Salinas
. . . . Holl ister
. San Bernardino
. . . . Ventura
. . .San Carlos
. San Clemente
. . . San Diego
. Cardiff-By-The-Sea
. .. San Dimas
. San Fernando
. San Francisco
San Gabriel
. .. . Sanger
. . . Banning
. San Jacinto
. . . Stockton
. . San Jose
. Citrus Heights
. Castro Valley
. Boulder Creek

. 666
582
. 711
. 786
. 208
. 397
459
635
780
457

548

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

NAME
San Marino
San Mateo
San Pablo .
San Ramon Valley
San Simeon ..
Santa Barbara
Santa Cruz
Santa Lucia . .
Santa Maria . .
Santa Monica-Palisades
Santa Paula . . . .
Santa Rosa . . . .
Santa Ynez Valley
Scepter
Seafaring .. .
Selma . . . . .
Semper Virens
Sequoia-St. Elmo
Shoreline ..
Sierra . . . .
Sierra Valley
Silverado ..
Silver Gate
Silver Trowel
Silveyville
Simi Valley
Sincerity ..
Sisson-White Pine
Smyrna .. ..
Snow Mountain
Sojourner . . .
Soquel
Sotoyome-Curtis
South Bay . . . .
Southeast . . . .
Southern California Research
South Pasadena
South West
Stanislaus
Starr King
St. Helena

NO.

LOCATION

. 685

San Marino
.San Mateo
. Richmond
.. Danville
.. Cambria
. Santa Barbara
Santa Cruz
. . . . King City
. . . . Ramona
. Santa Monica
. Santa Paula
.. Santa Rosa
. . . . Solvang
. West Sacramento
. Newport Beach
.. Selma
. . . . Eureka
. . . Oakland
. Long Beach
.Oakhurst
. Sierraville
. . . . Napa
. San Diego
. Los Angeles
. . . Dixon
.Simi Valley
. Greenville
.. Weed
.. Ceres
Stonyford
. . Duarte
.. Soquel
Healdsburg
El Segundo
South Gate
. Los Angeles
.South Pasadena
. .National City
. . . . Modesto
. San Francisco
. . . St. Helena

. 226
. 754

. 724
196

. 192
.. 38
. 302

. 580
. 307
. 291
.. 57
. 701

. 808
. 708
. 277
. 552
. 349
. 543
788

184
782
296
. 415
. 201

. 806
. 132
. 310
. 532
. 271
. 607

746
. 123
. 421
. 596
367

283
206
344
. 93

NAME
Sublime
Suisun .
Summit
Sun Garden
Sunnyside .
Sunrise ..
Surprise Valley
s.w. Hacken
Table Mountain
Taft-Midway
Tehachapi
Tehama
Tejon ..
Temescal
Temple
Texas ..
The Gabilan
The Gardens
Three Pillars
Three Stars
Tila Pass
Torrance
Travelers
Tri .. .
Triangle
Trinity ..
Tri Square
Trona
Truckee
Tujunga
Tuolumne
Turlock
Tuscan Maxwell
Tustin
Tyre
Tyrian
Union Kit Carson
University
Upland . . . . .

549

NO.

LOCATION

. 831

. . . .Benicia
. . . Fairfield
Knights Ferry
. . . Fresno
.Hawthorne
.. Reseda
. Cedarville
. San Diego

. . 55
. 112
. 530
. 577
. 840
. 235
. 574
124
426
313

3
. 773
. 314
. . 14
. . 46

. 803
. 621
. 613

. 839
. 797

. 447

. 692
. 595

548
. 27
551

684
. 200

. 592
.. 8
. 395
. 182
. 241

741
439

. 58
394
. 419

.. Paradise
. . . . .Taft
. Tehachapi
. Sacramento
.Bakersfield
. . . Corona
. . . Sonoma
. San Juan Bautista
. . . . Salinas
.. . Whittier
. Sacramento
.. San Diego
. Los Angeles
. . . Torrance
. Sacramento
. Los Angeles
. . . Venice
Weaverville
. Hayward
.. Trona
. Truckee
. Tujunga
.. Sonora
Turlock
. Williams
. Santa Ana
. Downey
.. Manteca
. Sacramento
.Torrance
. . . . Upland

550

551

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES - CONTINUED

NO.

LOCATION

NAME

NO.

LOCATION

Vacaville
. . . . . . . 134
Vallee de France . . . . . . . 329
Vallejo-Solano
. . . . . . . 229
Valley . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 135
Van Nuys . . . . . . . . . . . . 450
Vesper . . . . .. .. . . . . . . 84
Victoria Palms
.. . . . . . . 810
Victorville . . . .
. 634
Visalia . . . . . .
. 128
Vista . . . . .
. 687
Vitruvius
. 145
Volcano . . .
. . 56

. Vacaville
Pasadena
. . Vallejo
.. linden
Van Nuys
.Red Bluff
.Riverside
Victorville
.. Visalia
. . . Vista
Petaluma
.. Volcano

Yucca Valley

. 802

.Yucca Valley

Zenith-Mount Olive

. 506

. .. Van Nuys

Warren G. Harding
. 579
Wasco . . . . . . .
. 583
Washington
. . 20
Wayfarer . . . . .
. . 717
Welcome . . . . . . . . . . . 255
Westchester United . . . . .. 572
West Covina-La Puente
. 446
Western Star . . .
. . . . 2
West Gate . . . . . . . . . . . 335
West Los Angeles
. . . . . 373
Westminster Fairview
. 629
Westwood . . . . . . . . . . 501
Whittier . . . . . . . . . . . . 323
William Rhodes Hervey . . . . . 767
Willits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365
Willow Glen . . . . . . . . . . . 676
Wilmington .
. . . . 198
Winnedurnah
. 287
Wisdom . . .
202
Woodbridge
. . . 131
Woodland . .
. . . 81
Woodland Hills
. . . 811

. Sacramento
. . .. Wasco
. Sacramento
. . . . . Whittier
. . . . . Lemoore
. . Playa del Rey
. . . West Covina
. . . . . . Shasta
. Los Angeles
. . . . Los Angeles
. . . . Westminster
. . . . Westwood
. . . . . Whittier
. . . Los Angeles
. . . . . . Willits
. . . . . San Jose
. . . . . Wilmington
. . . . . . . . . Bishop
. Los Angeles
. Woodbridge
.. Woodland
Canoga Park

Verba Buena
. . . . . . . . 403
Yorba Linda .
. . . . . . . . 469
Yosemite . .
. . . . 99
Yount .
. . .. 12
Yucaipa . . . . .
. . . 726

. . . Oakland
. Yorba Linda
. . . Merced
.. . Napa
. . . . . . . . Yucaipa

NAME

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

553

INDEX FOR 1991
A
Accounting
Finance Committee Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1[
~
Grand Secretary's Comments . . .
Grand Treasurer's Comments ..
. ~ l .,8tl
~. 1 . . ~
Acknowledgements by Grand Master .
Affiliation Fees Tabulated (see Fees)
Alphabetical List of Lodges
Amaranth Fund
Audit . . . .. . . . . . .
Amendments to By-Laws
Reported by Grand Secretary (Exhibit B) . . . . . . . . . . '~·'· .-9r
Anniversaries of Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . · · · · · · · · · · } .Ir .__...1.+--Annual Election and Announcement of Appointive Officers . . cJ ':I . --32+-Annual Dues
Tabulated by Amount
. I~ ! . ..wTabulated by Lodge .
. :'ldtOAaAnnual Returns
Audit .. .. . . . . . .
. . . . . 332
~o
Details by Lodge . . .
A'l.'S" ,
Membership Reported
. . . . .42aAppendix
.387
General . . . . . . . .
Special . . . . . . . .
.329
Appointive Grand Lodge Officers
. 32
1990-1991
1991 -1992 . . . . . . . . . .
Back Cover
Appointments
Committees and Constitutional Boards
. . . . 388
. . . . 33
For Communication . . . . . . . . . .
For Year 1991-1992 . . . . . . . . . .
. 323, 388
Trustees for California Masonic Foundation .
.401
.402
Trustees for California Masonic Homes . . . . .
Trustees for California Masonic Memorial Temple
.401
Appropriations
.277
Approved . . . .
.330
Auditor's Report
. . . 277
Reported .. ..
Attendance
Listed (See Registration and Mileage Payments)
Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

./ .. ....az-

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Review of the Proceedings of other Grand Lodges have appeared
quarterly in the California Freemason, copies of which have been sent to
each Grand Lodge. This program will be coritinued.
The California Freemason is issued quarterly and each copy carried
additional reviews. Hence, they do not appear in these Proceedings.

. :.,;c:lo

554

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Audits
1991 Returns
Grand Looge
Index . .. .
California Masonic Foundation
California Masonic Homes . . .
California Masonic Memorial Tempie
Pooled Income Fund
Retirement Pension Plan . . .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.332
.330
.329
.365
.344
.356
.372
.376

B
Bequests
California Masonic Homes .
Biography, Ronald A. ShercxJ
Brigham Scholarship Fund Audit
Brown Memorial Fund . . . .
Budget
Administrative and Office
Appropriations . . . . . .
Approval by Grand Lodge
California Freemason ..
Estimated Income . . . .
Finance Committee Comments
General Expense . . . .
By-Laws
Amendments Submitted

.292
.. iii
.351
.351

.276

.277
.278
.278

.277
.275
.276

c
California Freemason
Budget . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Finance Committee Comments
Per Capita .. . .
Publication Board
Members of .
California Masonic Foundation
Amaranth Fund . . . . . . .
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance
Audit . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
Board of Trustees . . . . . . .
Notes to Financial Statements .
Revenues and Expenses
Statement of Changes in Fund Balances

·~
. 278, 332
. 275
.278
.401

~
~

.365
.401
.368, 369, 370, 371
.367
. . . . . . . . .367

555

Galifornia Masonic Memorial Temple
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance
. . . . . .. . . . .357
Audit . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
. . . . . . . . . 356
Notes to Financial Statements .
.369, 360, 361, 362
Officers and Trustees . .
.401
Report of Trustees . .. .. . .
.157
Revenues and Expenses
.358
Statement of Changes in Fund Balances
.358
Trustees Appointed and Terms
.323
Calling up Procedures
. .
. . . . .
Gavels used, listed . . . . . . .
34
(Names of participants indicated at start of each session)
Ceremonial Communications
64
Certification . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.v
Changes of Meeting Place
Report of Committee on Charters
86
Report of Grand Secretary .
·~
Charters Committee
Members of . . . . . .
.388
Report of . . . . . . . .
. 86
Charters Issued (Years)
428- :
Clarke Memorial Scholarship Fund
.351
Commercialism Committee
Members of . . . . .
.388
Report of .• . .. .. .
.279
Committee Appointments
For Communication .
. 33
For 1991-1992 . . . .
.388
Committee Reports (See Reports of Committees)
Community and Public Relations Committee
Members of . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
.388
Conference of Younger Members Committee
Report of .. . . . . . . .. . . .
.279
Consolidation of Lodges
Report of Committee on Charters
86
Report of Grand Secretary .
84
Constituent Lodges Listed
Alphabetically
. .. ~
Statistical Table
~.423""
Constitutional Boards
. . . . 401

·"""""°.

556

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Contributions
California Masonic Foundation
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
Received from Lodges . . . . . . .
To California Masonic Homes . . .
To California Masonic Memorial Temple
To George Washington Masonic Memorial
Copyright Notice . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cornerstone Ceremonies . . . . . . . . .
Correspondence Report (Announcement)
Covina Home
Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Report of Administrator . . . . .
Report of Trustees
Residents Listed .
Credentials Committee
Members of
Report of . . . . .

. . . . .. 367
. . . . . . 306
292, 293, 294
.337
.337
.337
. . 1

. 64
.552 . 353
. 152
.123
. 155
.389

. 164

D
Deceased Past Masters. Masters and Wardens
Listed by Lodge Affiliation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Decisions by Grand Master and Action by Grand Lodge
Suspension of Master . . . . . . . . .
Set Aside Suspension . . . . . . . . .
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Decoto Home (see Union City)
Degrees Conferred
Tabulated by Lodges
Totals Reported .
Degree Fees
By Dollar Amounts
By Lodge . . . .
Devotional Message
Dispensations Issued
Distinguished Guests
Addressed Grand Lodge
Attendance Listed
Distribution Committee
Appointment of .
Members of

.. 26

44,53
45, 54
45, 55

. . . . . 88

.'#:Q ~
35
94
.4

.3

33
33

Dues
Amendments to By-Laws
T abctlation by Amounts
Tabulation by Lodges . . . .

557

. . . . ..9r'
. . 88,~"-~

. 4~

E
Elected Officers
At 1991 Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
For 1991-1992 . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . .321 , Back Cover
Grand Lodge, Since Organization April 18, A.L.5850
.. 514
Election of Grand Lodge Officers
·~
Endowment and Trust Funds Audit
.344
Endowment Board
Grand Master's Proclamation .
. 77
Masonic Homes Trustees' Comments
. 123
Members of
.402
Report of . . . .
.291
Eulogy
Eugene S. Hopp
23
Picture . . . . .
22
Executive Committee
Members of
.388
Extinct Lodges , Including Consolidations
.441
F
Fees for Affiliation
Amendments to By-Laws
. . . . 98
Tabulated by Lodges
. ~-423-Fees for Degrees
. . . .~
Amendments to By-Laws
. .88, ~ 4,,i..o
Tabulation by Amounts .
. .. /;o?O~
Tabulation by Lodges . .
Fifty and Seventy-Five Year Buttons (See Golden Veterans' Awards)
Finance Committee
Members of
.389
Report of . . . . .
.275
Foreign Grand Lodges
List of Recognized Jurisdictions .
.528
Members of Committee . . . . .
.396
. .
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.165
Foundation (See California Masonic Foundation)

558

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

G
Gavels Used During Communication
General Appendix . . . . . . .
General Condition of Masonry
Grand Master's Comments
General Fund Balance
California Masonic Homes .
California Masonic Foundation
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . .
George Washington Masonic Memorial
Contributions of Initiates ..
Golden Veterans' Awards
Fifty Year Button Recipients
Seventy-Five Year Button Recipients
Grand Chaplain, Devotional
Grand Lecturer
Report of . . . . . . . .
Grand Lodge
Administrative and Office Expenses .
Annual Returns . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriations . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance
Audit . . . . . . . . . . .. .
Changes in Fund Balance .. .
Grand Treasurer's Comments .
Notes to Financial Statements .
Officers 1990-1991 . . . .
Officers 1991-1992 . . . . . . .
Revenues and Expenses
Schedule of Administrative and Office Expenses
Schedule of Annual Returns . . . .
Schedule of Committee Expenses
Schedule of General Expenses
Grand Lodge Committees
List of . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
Reports of (see Reports of Committees)
Grand Lodges Represented at Communication
Grand Lodge Week Activities Committee
Members of . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Master (see Sherod, Ronald A.}
Grand Master Achievement Awards . .
Grand Master's Youth Achievement Awards

. 34
.387
. 48
.345

~
.357
.331
.331
. 107
.120
. 35
. 121
.276
.337

.277
.331
.330
.332
._..BG.333, 334, 335, 336
. . . . . . . . 32
.321, Back Cover
.332
. . . . 340
. . . . 337
. 338. 339
.341

.388

.. 3
.389
.288

.. 9

Grand Master's
Message .
Recommendation
Decisions ..
Grand Oration
Grand Secretary
Finance Committee Comments
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Treasurer
Finance Commit1ee Comments
Report of . . . . . . . . . . .

559

·-~
45, 56
44, 53
. • 1fr I

.275

. --82"
.275

. ....66"
H

Hardy Trust Fund . . . . . . . . .
Heuer Scholarship Fund . . . . .
Historic Sites and Buildings Committee
Members of . . . . . . . . .
Homes (see Masonic Homes}
Homes Statistics-Residents Listed
Covina . . . . . . . . . .
Union City . . . . .. . .
Honor Roll (Endowment Fund)
Hopp, Eugene S.
Eulogy . . . . . . . . . . .
. ..
Picture . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . .
Fund
Hugo M. Lorber Masonic Horne, Union City

Inspectors
Grand Lecturer's Comments
List of . . . . . _ . . . . . . .
Inspectors' Orientation Committee
Members of . . . . . . . . . .
Installation of Grand Lodge Officers
Insurance Commit1ee
Members of . . . . .
Investment Committee
Members of
Report of . . . . .
Investments
Market Value of (Grand Lodge} .
Market Value of (Masonic Foundation)
Market Value of (Masonic Homes} . .
Market Value of (Memorial Temple} _ .

.351
.351
.390

.155
.140
.301
. 23
. 22
.345-348 , 350

. 121
.524
.390
.324
.390

.391

.285
.331
..366"""
.345
.357

560

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

J
Jacqu elin Annui ty Trust Fund
.351
Jense n Trust Fund . . . . . .
.351
Jones Trust Fund . . . . . . .
. 351
Jurisp ruden ce Comm ittee (Report separately on items
referred
to Comm ittee)
Memb ers of .. . . . . .. .
. . . . 391

L
Legislation Propo sed (see Resolutions)
Life Memb ership
Tabulated by Lodge
Chan ges in Fees
Fixing Fees .
List of Inspe ctors ..
Lodge s
Alpha betica l List of
Anniversaries of .
Cond ition of . . .
Extinc t and Conso lidate d . . . . . . . .
Nume rical List of .. . . . . . . . . . . .
Lodge Resources Devel opme nt Comm ittee
Memb ers of
Repor t of . . . . . . . . . . .

.1~.~
.. 96
. 96
. . 524

....~

.~/.J:O~
.. . . 48
. . . . 441

.~~
.391

.286

M
Maso nic Code Comm ittee
Memb ers of .. . . .
Maso nic Educa tion Comm ittee
Memb ers of . . . .. .
Maso nic Histor y Comm ittee
Memb ers of . . . . . .
Maso nic Home s
Assets. Liabilities, Reserves and Fund Balan ce .
Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contr ibutio ns and Beque sts
General Fund . . . . . . . . .
List of Trustees . . . . . . . .
Notes to Financial Statement
Repo rt of Endo wmen t Board
Repo rt of Admin istrato r, Covin a
Repo rt of Admin istrato r, Union City
Repor t of Trustees . . .
Restricted Trust Funds . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. 392
.392

Revenue and Expen ses . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . 346
Maso nic Home s Endo wmen t Board and Fund
Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
345,3 46, 347
Beque sts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . 292
Comm ents by California Maso nic Home s' Trustees
. . . . . . 123
Contr ibutio ns throu gh Lodge s
292,2 93, 294
Hono r Roll .
.301
Memb ers of . . . . . . . . . .
.402
Memo rials
. . ... . . . . .
.292
Procla matio n of Grand Maste r
. 77
Repo rt of . . . . . . . . . . . .
.291
Maso nic Inform ation Panel Comm ittee
Memb ers of . . . . . . . . . . .
.393
Maso nic Service Bureaus Comm ittee
Memb ers of . . . . . . . . . . .
.393
Maso nic Widow s Progr am Comm ittee
Memb ers of . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.393
Maste r Maso ns' Attend ance at Comm unica tion
.404
Meeti ng Place
Chan ges Listed by Grand Secre tary
. 94
Memb er's Endo wmen t Fund Contr ibutio ns by Lodge
s
.306
Memb ership
Grand Secre tary's Repo rt
... . . . . . . . .-82"'
Tabul ated by Lodge s
.... ... -'/~~
Memo rial Contributi€lns
Memo rial Service Comm ittee
Memb ers of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
... .
.394
Necro logy Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . .
. 25
Memo rial Temp le (see Califo rnia Maso nic Memorial
Temple)
Mess age of Grand Maste r
. .38"'
Morel and Trust Fund Audit . . . .
.351

.392
.345

.344
.292
. .. . . . . . . 345
. . . . . . . . .402
.347, 348,3 49,35 0
.291
. . . . . . . 152
. . . . . . . 136
.123
. . . . . . 351 . 352

561

N
New Lodge s

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86

0
Office rs' Admin istrati ve Semin ars Comm ittee
Memb ers of . . . . . . . . . .
Office rs of Grand Lodge
Appo intme nt of, For 1991-1992
Atten dance from other Jurisd iction s
Since Organ izatio n, April 18 AL. 5850
Electi on of . . . . . .
Installed for 1991 -1992 . . . . . . . . . . .

.394
.324

. .3
.514
.~

.324

562

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

List of, For 1990-1991 . . . . . . . . .
Present at Communication . . . . . .
Opening of 142nd Annual Communication
Oration by Grand Orator . .

p

32
32
32
15

Past Grand Masters
. 514
List Since Organization
33
Present at Communication .
.4
Visitors at Communication . . . .
33
Past Grand Officers . . . . . . . . . .
26
Past Master, Masters and Wardens Deceased
Per Capita
. ~ .~
Payment by Lodges . . . . . . . . . .
.278
Rate for Fiscal year Ending June 1991
. 278
Report of Finance Committee . . . . .
Permanent Endowment Fund (see Masonic Homes Endowment
Board and Fund)
Policy and General Purposes Committee (Reported separately on
items referred to Committee)
. 394
Members of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Proclamations of Grand Master
77
Masonic Homes Endowment Month
76
Public Schools Month . . . . . . . .
79
U.S. Constitution Observance Month
78
Youth Month . . . . . .
Public Schools
. 395
Members of Committee
. 76
Proclamation of Grand Master
.315
Report of Committee . . . . .

R
Receptions and Breakfast Reported . . . . . . . .
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges Committee
Members of . . . . .
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recognized Jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recommendations by Grand Master and Action by Grand Lodge
Proficiency .
Advertising .
Cost Impact
Resolutions .
Registration and Mileage Payments

. 66
.396

. 165
.528
45, 56
46,57
46,60
46,62
. . 404

563

Reports of Committees
. 11
California Masonic Foundation Trustees
.158
California Masonic Memorial Temple Trustees
. 86
Charters . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.279
Conference of Younger Members
.164
Credentials
.275
Finance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.285
Investment . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jurisprudence (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
. 286
Lodge Resources Development . . .
.291
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
. 123
Masonic Homes Trustees . . . . . .
. 25
Memorial Service . . . . . . . . . . .
Policy and General Purposes (Reported separately on items
referred to Committee)
.315
Public Schools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 165
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ritual (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
. 166
Special Committee - Code Revision . . . . .
. 161
Special Committee - Prince Hall Recognition
.316
Temple Properties . . . . . . .
. 100
Trial Review . . . . . . . . .
.320
U.S. Constitution Observance
.5
Youth Orders . . . . .
Representatives of lodges
33
Attendance Reported
.404
Roster of Attendance
Research Lodges
. 440
Membership . . . .
Residents at Homes
.155
Covina . .
.140
Union City . . .
Resolutions
No. 91-01 Modifies Proficiency Memorization
. 179
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . .
. 181
Legislation .. · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-02 Omit Monitoral of Candidates Proficiency
. 183
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 183
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-03 Obligations on Holy Writings of Choice
. 184
Amendment Proposed
. 185
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolutions - Continued
No. 91-04 Manner of Carrying Flag
. 187
. . . . . . . . . .
Amendment Proposed
. 188
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-05 Recognition and Support Sisters of Hiram
. 189
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 189
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-06 Adopt Grand Lodge Sister of Hiram Program
. 190
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 191
.
.
.
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office
Lodge
No. 91-07 Study Relocation of Grand
. 192
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 194
.
.
.
.
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Allegiance
of
No. 91-08 Citizens Only Recite Pledge
.196
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . .
. 197
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-09 Recitation of Officer's Duties Optional
. 199
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . .
. 200
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-10 Passing of Word at Altar for Third Degree
.201
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 202
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-11 To Wear Past Master's Apron While Occupying
Officer's Chair
. 203
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.204
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-12 Position of Candidate for Proficiency Examination
. 206
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206
No. 91-13 Study of Committees and Limitation on Creation of New
Special Committees
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 209
No. 91-14 Ritual for Closing Dorr in Second Section of First Two
Degrees
.210
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.211
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-15 Location of Candidate for Lectures and Instruction
.212
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . .
.213
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-16 Authorizes Lapel Pin for Hiram Award
.213
. . .
Amendment Proposed .
.214
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Resolutions - Continued
No. 91-17 Optional Ritual for January and December Stated Meetings
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. 215
.215
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-18 Display Working Tcols in a Degree
.215
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . .
.216
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-19 All Members on Level for Closing
.217
Amendment Proposed . . . . . .
. 218
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-20 Use Variety of Altar Lights
. 219
Amendment Proposed . . . . . .
. 220
. . .
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-21 Budget to be First Item of Business at Annual
Communication
.221
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 222
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-22 Deletes Punch Card Form for Written Ballots
. 223
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . .
. 225
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-23 Increase Votes for Past Masters
. 226
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . .
. 227
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-24 Vote for Each Lcxige Secretary
. . . . . . 228
Amendmer;it Proposed . . . . . . . .
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 229
No. 91-25 Grand Master's Recommendations to be Submitted 180
Days in Advance, Limits Time for Committee Reports, Precludes
Committees From Recommending Action on Resolutions
. 230
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 232
No. 91-26 Committee Reports on Legislation to be Distributed in
Advance of Annual Communication
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 235
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .237
No. 91-27 Long Range Planning Committee as a Standing Committee
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 238
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
No. 91-28 Appointment, Terms and Number of Members of Masonic
Homes Endowment Board
.241
Amendment Proposed
.242
Legislation . . . . . . . .

564

565

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolutions - Continued
No. 91-29 Stated Meetings in First Degree
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.243
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.244
No. 91-30 Option of Stated Meeting in First Degree
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.245
.246
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-31 Computation of Time For Veteran Mason Awards
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 248
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.249
No. 91-32 Clarifies Eligibility Time For Veteran Mason Awards
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 249
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 250
No. 91-33 Annual Election of Lodge in November
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . .
.251
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.252
No. 91-34 Master-Elect Must Be Qualified in Lodge Management
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
No. 91-35 Junior and Senior Wardens-Elect Must Be Qualified in
Lodge Management
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
No. 91-36 Non-Resident Within Twenty-Five Miles of California Lodge
May Apply For Degrees in That Lodge
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . .
.259
. 260
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 91-37 Minimizes Investigations For Affiliates
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . .
. 261
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.262
No. 91-38 Cause Given For Objection After Election But Before
Initiation
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .265
NO. 91-39 Placement of Candidate For Lectures and Charges
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 265
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.267
No. 91-40 Presentation of Degrees in Spanish Language
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.268
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.269
No. 91-41 Permits Cipher Ritual at Tiled Meeting Called For Practice
Amendment Proposed
.271
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .272

Resolutions - Continued
No. 91-42 Substantial Compliance With Divestiture of Metals
Amendment Proposed
.273
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . .
.274
Retirement Pension Plan Committee
. 396
Members of
Retirement Plan
Audit . . . .
.376
Review of Proceedings Committee
Members of . . . . . . . . . .
. 396
Review of Proceedings Other Grand Lodges (Correspondence Report)
Ritual Committee (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Members of . . . . . . .
. 396
Report of Grand Lecturer
.121
Roll Call . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 32

566

567

s
Santa Fe Masonic Club Fund Audit
Schultz Scholarship Fund .
Sessions of Communication
Monday Morning .
Monday Afternoon
Tuesday Morning
Tuesday Afternoon
Wednesday Morning
Wednesday Afternoon
Sherod, Ronald A.
Anniversaries . . . . .
Biography . . . . . .
Ceremonial Communications
Decisions and Recommendations
Message . ..
Photograph . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Proclamations
Masonic Homes Endowment Month
Public Schools Week . . . . . . . .
U.S. Constitution Observance Month
Youth Month . . . . . . . . . . .
Receptions and Miscellaneous . . .
Special Ceremonies and Dedications
Visits to Other Jurisdictions
Slonaker Annuity Trust Fund
Sojourners Committee
Members of .. . . . .

.351
.351
. 32
.169
.196
.248
.321
.324
.~

.. iii
. 64
44, 45
-~
. ii
77
76
79
78
66
65
75
.351

.397

568

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Speekman Fund . . . . . . . . . . .
. ... .
Special Appendix . . . . . . . . . . .
Special Ceremonies and Dedications
Special Committee on Code Revision
Report of . . . . . . . .. . . . .
Special Committee on Prince Hall Recognition
Members of . . . . . . .. . . . .
Report of . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. .
Statistical Table of Constituent Lodges ..
Student Aid Fund Audit . . . . . . . . . . .
Substance Abuse Education Program Committee
Members of . . . . . . .
Supplemental Appropriations
Auditor's Report . . . . .
Finance Committee Report
Sweeney Memorial Fund . . . .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.351
.329
. 65
.166
.. 395
. . . . 161

.1dP_.42S.351
.397
. 345, 346

.277
. . . . 351

T
Telegrams-Letters . . . . . .
Temple Properties Committee
Members of
Report of . . . . . . . . .
Title Page . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tournament of Roses Parade Float Committee
Members of . . . . . . . . .. .
Travel Allowances
Tabulation of Payment
Trial Records
Listed . . . . . . . . .
Report of Committee on Trial Review
Trial Review Committee
Members of
Trust Funds Audit . . . .

. 34

.397
.316
. .1
.398
.404
. 99
.100
.398
. 351 , 352

u
Unfinished Business From 1990 Communication
Grand Master Pavlovich's Recommendation No. 1 Tenure of Office Legislation to be Prospective . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 171
Grand Master Pavlovich's Recommendation No. 2 Advertising in
East-West Football Game Program .
. 170
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172

569

Unfinished Business From 1990 Communication - Continued
Resolution No. 90-14 Invest Funds of Grand Lodge and Individual
Lodges in Stock Listed by NASDAQ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 173
Resolution No. 90-16 U.D. Lodges - Voting Rights and Termination
of Dispensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 171
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 173
Resolution No. 90-19 Masonic Participation in Civic and Charitable
Activities . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 171
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 174
Resolution No. 90-20 Youth Activities - Lodges May Sponsor and
Provide Financial Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .171
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
Resolution No. 90-26 Shorten Proficiency as Alternative to Candidates
Lecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 171
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 176
Resolution No. 90-28 Use of Cipher Ritual at Practice Sessions
.171
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 176
Resolution No. 90-31 Alternate Life Membership Plan . . . . . . 171
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 177
Resolution No. 90-32 Delete Handwriting Requirements on
Applications and Allowing Mark as Signature
.171
Legislation . . . . . . . .
. 178
Union City Home (Decoto Home)
Expenses .. ~ . . . . . .
.353
Report of Administrator .
. 136
Report of Trustees . . . .
.123
Residents Listed . . . . .
. 140
U.S. Constitution Observance Committee
Grand Master's Proclamation
. 79
Members of
. 399
Report of . . . . . . . . . . .
.319

v
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions
Calendar . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . 75

w
Wardens' Management Retreats Committee
Members of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 399
Widows Program (See Masonic Widows Committee)

570

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

y
Youth Group Representatives . .
Youth Orders (Activities)
Grand Master's Proclamation
Members of
Report of . . . . . . . . . . .

.5
78

.399
. .5

OFFICERS OF THE
GRAND LODGE F.a. A.M. OF CALIFORNIA
Commencing October 16, 1991

'

Grand Master . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stanley M. Cazneaux (191) /
1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Deputy Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . R. Stephen Doan (548)
6411 Seabryn Dr., Rancho Palos Verdes 9027 4
Senior Grand Warden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Warren J. Blomseth (551)
155 Indian Hills Dr., Novato 94949
Junior Grand Warden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William F. Stovall, Jr. (540)
1635 E. Ocean Blvd., #4A, Long Beach 90802
Grand Treasurer
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Herbert P. Wilkins (547)
922 Alleghany Cir., San Dimas 91n3
Grand Secretary
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John L. Cooper Ill (467)
1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Grand Lecturer
, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ulysses G. Patropulos (344)
1275 Washington St., #1, San Francisco 94108
Grand Chaplain
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Larry W. Coyle (325)
2015 S. Juniper St., Escondido 92025
Asst. Grand Lecturer, Div. I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edward P. Margherio (347)
2503 Heide Ct., El Sobrante 94803
Asst. Grand Lecturer, Div. II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. Howard E. Moore (228)
1007 Eureka Ave., Davis 95616
Asst . Grand Lecturer, Div. Ill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Paul D. Hennig (651)
1417- 5th Ave., Belmont 94002
Asst. Grand Lecturer, Div. IV . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. ,
Reuben F. Herrold (303)
606 N. Jaye St., Porterville 93257
Asst. Grand Lecturer, Div. V . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Samuel E. Harris (612)
5044 Persimmon Ave .. Temple City 91780
Asst. Grand Lecturer, Div. VI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edwin A. Robinson (357)
9859 Via Sonoma, Cypress 90630-3437
Grand Orator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Harold S. Stein, Jr. (136)
1777 Eucalyptus St., San Francisco ~~132
Asst . Grand Treasurer ; . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . '. .. Richard 0 . Wright (256)
13675 N. Hartley Ln., Lodi 95242'
Asst. Grand Secretary
.H. Francis Lewis (192)
1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Grand Marshal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . Loyal L. Stark (243)
24065 Edloe Dr., Hayward 94541
Grand Standard Bearer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J;>mes W. Matthews, Jr. (111)
665 Bryant Ave., Chico 95926
Grand Sword Bearer
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard S. Weber (407)
3915 Hughes Ct., San Diego 92115
Grand Bible Bearer .
. E. B. •Jay" Rider (625)
2302 N. Olive Ln., Santa Ana 92706
Senior Grand Deacon
. David C. Decker (419)
1381 Millwood Rd., Riverside 92506
Junior Grand Deacon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joseph W.R. Ashwill (699)
3647 Colorado St.. Long Beach 90814
Senior Grand Steward
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pete Bernardo (831)
575 Lori Dr., Benicia 94510
Junior Grand Steward
. Paul L. Owyang (120)
355 - 11th Ave., San Francisco 94118
Grand Pursuivant
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Donald W. Maltby (542)
3774 W1llowcrest Ave., Studio City 91604
Grand Organist
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Harold M. Hand (290)
1118 No. Central Ave., #21, Glendale 91202
Grand Tiler . .
. • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Balopoulos (370)
135 Van Tassel Ct., San Anselmo 94960
The One Hundred Forty-Third Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Californ ia will
be holden in the California Masonic Memorial Temple, 1111 California Street, San Francisco,
commencing on Monday, October 12, 1992.

